A partly submerged हिमानी cave on Perito मोरेनो हिमानी.
the ice facade is approximately 60 m ऊँची
बर्फ formations in the titlis glacier cave
a हिमानी गुफा is a cave formed within the ice of a हिमानी.
हिमानी गुफाएं are often पुकारा बर्फ गुफाएं, लकिन इस term is properly प्रयुक्त to describe bedrock caves that contain year-round बर्फ.
In physics, circular गति is a गति of an object साथ the परिधि of a वृत्त or रोटेशन along a circular path.
it can be uniform, with निरंतर कोणीय rate of रोटेशन ( and constant speed ), or non-uniform साथ a changing रेट of रोटेशन.
The rotation around a fixed axis of a three-dimensional देह involves गोलाकार गति of its parts.
The equations of motion describe the movement of the center of mass of a देह.
Examples of circular motion शामिल : an artificial उपग्रह orbiting the Earth at निरंतर ऊँचाई, a स्टोन जिससे is tied to a rope and is being swung in वृत्त, a car turning through a curve in a रेस track, an electron चलती perpendicular to a uniform चुम्बकीय field, and a गियर turning inside a यांत्रिकी.
चूंकि the object 's गति वेक्टर is constantly changing दिशा, the चलती object is undergoing acceleration by a अभिकेन्द्रीय force in the direction of the center of rotation.
बगैर इस acceleration, the object होता move in a straight line, according to न्यूटन 's कानून of motion.
Apollo Creed is a fictional अक्षर from the Rocky films, initially portrayed as the Undisputed हेवीवेट चैंपियन of the World.
He was played by कार्ल weathers.
Creed था multiple nicknames, सहित The Master of Disaster, The King of Sting, The Dancing Destroyer, the Prince of पंच, The एक and तभी and The Count of Monte Fisto.
Urban legend राज्य that अपोलो Creed 's नाम is a wordplay on the Apostles ' पंथ, a बयान of belief प्रयुक्त in ईसाई चर्च.
All of Apollo 's championship fights were अनुसूचित for the 15 round अलहदा.
Championship fights किया not बदलें इससे 15 rounds to 12 rounds until 1987.
Rocky Balboa is often wrongly credited with popularizing the red, श्वेत, and ब्लू trunks ; Creed थी the पहला man to पहनें them ( latterly worn by रॉकी बाल्बोआ in the 3rd and 4th किश्तों and finally by टॉमी `` The Machine '' Gunn ( Tommy Morrison ) in the 5th installment ) हालांकि normally he wore red और श्वेत, as seen in Rocky ii.
बाल्बोआ 's हस्ताक्षर colors were black and gold—colors he प्रयुक्त in the latest movie.
In the United States, the title of संघीय न्यायधीश usually means a judge appointed by the President of the United राज्य और confirmed by the United States सीनेट pursuant to the Appointments clause in Article II of the संयुक्त States Constitution.
In addition to the Supreme अदालत of the United States, जिनकी existence and some aspects of whose jurisdiction हैं परे the constitutional power of कॉंग्रेस to alter, acts of कॉंग्रेस have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` सर्किट courts '' ) with appellate क्षेत्राधिकार over different regions of the संयुक्त राज्य, और 94 संयुक्त States district courts.
प्रत्येक judge appointed to ऐसे a court may be categorized as a federal न्यायधीश ; ऐसे स्थितियाँ include the Chief इंसाफ और Associate Justices of the परम् Court, सर्किट Judges of the न्यायालयों of appeals, and district judges of the संयुक्त States ज़िला न्यायालयों.
सब of these judges described thus far are referred to sometimes as `` Article III न्यायाधीशों '' because they exercise the judicial power vested in the judicial branch of the संघीय government by Article III of the u.S. Constitution.
In जोड, न्यायाधीशों of the अदालत of International Trade exercise न्यायिक शक्ति pursuant to Article iii.
Other judges serving in the federal courts, including magistrate judges and दिवालियापन न्यायाधीशों, हैं also sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however, वे हैं neither appointed by the अध्यक्ष nor पुष्टि by the Senate, and उनके power derives इससे आलेख I instead.
See Article I and Article iii अधिकरणों.
The Beretta 21a Bobcat is a छोटी pocket-sized semi-automatic पिस्टल designed by Beretta in इटली.
Production began in late 1984, solely in the Beretta U.S.A. facility in Accokeek, Maryland.
it is a further development of the beretta Model 20, जिनकी उत्पादन ended in 1985.
Variable Universal Life Insurance ( often shortened to VUL ) is a type of जीवन insurance that builds a नकदी value.
in a VUL, the नकदी मान can be invested in a wide variety of separate खाते, similar to mutual निधि, and the चुनाव of which of the उपलब्धियाँ पृथक खाते to उपयोग is entirely up to the अनुबंध owner.
the 'variable ' component in the नाम refers to this ability to invest in separate accounts जिनकी मान vary—they vary because वे हैं invested in stock and/or बंध markets.
The 'universal ' component in the name refers to the flexibility the owner has in making premium payments.
the प्रीमियम can vary इससे nothing in a दिए month up to maximums पारिभाषित by the Internal Revenue Code लिये life insurance.
This लचीलापन is in कंट्रास्ट to whole life बीमे that रै फिक्स्ड प्रीमियम payments that typically can नहीं be missed बगैर lapsing the नीति ( although एक may exercise an Automatic Premium ऋण feature, or surrender dividends to pay a Whole Life premium ).
परिवर्तनीय universal life is a प्रकार of permanent life insurance, because the death लाभ will be paid if the insured मरता कोई time as long as there is sufficient नकदी value to pay the लागत of insurance in the policy.
साथ सबसे if not all VULs, नापसंद whole जीवन, there is no endowment age ( the age at जिससे the cash मान equals the death लाभ amount, which for पूरे life is typically 100 ).
This is yet another key advantage of VUL over Whole जीवन.
साथ a ठेठ पूरे जीवन policy, the मौत benefit is limited to the face राशि निर्दिष्ट in the नीति, और at endowment age, the फेस amount is सब कि is paid out.
Thus साथ either मौत or endowment, the बीमे company keeps कोई cash value निर्मित up over the सालो.
however, कुछ participating whole life policies offer riders which बताएँ कि any dividends paid on the नीति be प्रयुक्त to purchase `` paid up परिवर्धन '' to the नीति जिससे increase दोनो the cash value और the death लाभ over time.
If investments made in the separate accounts out-perform the general account of the insurance कम्पनी, a उच्चतर rate-of-return can occur than the फिक्स्ड rates-of-return ठेठ for पूरे जीवन.
the combination over the years of no endowment आयु, continually increasing death लाभ, और if a high rate-of-return is earned in the पृथक accounts of a vul policy, इस could परिणाम in उच्चतर मान to the owner or beneficiary than that of a पूरे life policy with the same amounts of money सशुल्क in as प्रीमियम.
The बाहरी लकडी boiler is a variant of the क्लासिक wood स्टोव adapted for set-up outdoors जबकि still transferring the ऊष्मा to interior इमारतें.
A mound of Girl Scout cookies.
इस mound contains 74 boxes of cookies
Girl स्काउट कुकीज़ are cookies बेची by Girl स्काउट of the USA ( GSUSA ) as एक of its major fundraisers for local Scout इकाई.
Members of the gsusa have महरूम selling कुकीज़ चूंकि 1917 to उठाएँ funds.
लड़कियों who participate can earn prizes लिये their efforts.
There are also ईकाई प्रोत्साहन if the ईकाई as a whole करता खूब.
as of 2007, sales were estimated at about 200 million boxes प्रति साल.
University Hall
purdue विश्वविद्यालयों, located in West lafayette, Indiana, is the फ्लैगशिप विश्वविद्यालयों of the six-campus Purdue विश्वविद्यालयों system.
Purdue was संस्थापित on may 6, 1869, as a land-grant विश्वविद्यालयों when the इंडियाना सामान्य Assembly, taking लाभ of the morrill अधिनियम, accepted a donation of जमीन and धन from Lafayette businessman John purdue to establish a college of विज्ञान, प्रौद्योगिकी, and agriculture in उसके नाम.
The first classes were held on सितंबर 16, 1874, with छह instructors and 39 students.
आज, purdue is a member of the Big Ten Conference, and is a खूब ज्ञात world-class शोध संस्था.
Purdue enrolls the दूसरी largest छात्र body of कोई university in Indiana as well as the fourth largest international student जनसांख्यिकी of कोई विश्वविद्यालयों in the United राज्य.
Purdue offers both undergraduate and graduate कार्यक्रम in over 211 major क्षेत्रों of study, and is खूब known for its competitive अभियान्त्रिकी curricula.
the विश्वविद्यालयों रै also been highly influential in अमेरिका 's history of aviation, having established the first college credit offered in उड़ान training, the first four-year bachelor 's उपाधि in aviation, and the पहला university विमानक्षेत्र ( Purdue University Airport ).
Purdue 's aviation प्रौद्योगिकी program remains one of the most competitive aviation-specific programs in the संसार.
in the mid-20th सदी, purdue 's aviation program विस्तारित to encompass उन्नत spaceflight प्रौद्योगिकी giving वृद्धि to purdue 's nickname, Cradle of Astronauts.
twenty-three purdue graduates have gone on to become astronauts, including Gus Grissom ( one of the original Mercury Seven astronauts ), Neil Armstrong ( the first व्यक्ति to चलना on the moon ), and Eugene Cernan ( the most recent व्यक्ति to walk on the चंद्रमा ).
A sebaceous cyst ( ) is a term कि loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( भी known as epidermal cysts ; L72.0 ) or पिलर cysts ( also ज्ञात as trichilemmal cysts ; l72.1 ).
Because an epidermoid cyst originates in the epidermis और a पिलर गाँठ originates from hair follicles, by definition, neither type of गाँठ is strictly a वसामय cyst.
the नाम is regarded as a misnomer as the fatty, white, semi-solid सामग्री in both of these गाँठ entities is not sebum, but keratin.
Furthermore, अंतर्गत the सूक्ष्मदर्शी neither entity contains sebaceous glands.
In practice, however, the terms are often used interchangeably.
`` True '' वसामय cysts हैं relatively विरल and हैं ज्ञात as steatocystomas or, if अनेक, as steatocystoma multiplex.
Modern pointe जूते.
The edge of the टो pad, which is inserted between the foot और toe बक्सा for cushioning, can be देखी on the right foot.
A pointe जूता is a प्रकार of जूता worn by ballet नर्तक when performing pointe work.
pointe जूते developed from the desire लिये नर्तक to appear weightless and sylph -like and have evolved to enable dancers to dance en pointe ( on the tips of उनके toes ) लिये विस्तारित periods of time.
They हैं सामान्यतः worn by मादा नर्तक, though male नर्तक may wear them लिये अपरंपरागत roles ऐसे as the ugly stepsisters in Cinderella, नीचे in A midsummer Night 's सपना, or मेन performing as women in dance companies such as लेस Ballets Trockadero and grandiva.
वे हैं manufactured in a variety of रंगों, सबसे commonly in शेड्स of लाइट pink.
इस tablespoon has a क्षमता of परिचय 15 ml.
Measuring Spoons
In the US and भाग of Canada, a tablespoon is the largest type of चमचा used for eating इससे a bowl.
In the UK, Europe and most राष्ट्रमंडल देशों, a tablespoon is a type of large spoon usually प्रयुक्त for सेवारत.
In देशों where a tablespoon is a serving चमचा, the निकटतम equivalent to the US tablespoon is either the dessert spoon or the soup spoon.
A tablespoonful, nominally the क्षमता of one tablespoon, is commonly प्रयुक्त as a measure of आवाज़ in cooking.
It is abbreviated as t, tb, tbs, tbsp, tblsp, or tblspn.
The capacity of ordinary tablespoons is not regulated by law and is विषय to considerable variation.
In the USA one tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is approximately 15 ml ; the capacity of an actual tablespoon ( डाइनिंग utensil ) सीमाएँ इससे 7 mL to 14 mL.
In ऑस्ट्रेलिया one tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is 20 ml.
Harry कुम्हार is a श्रेणी of सात fantasy novels written by the British author J. K. रोलिंग.
the किताबे वृत्तान्त the adventures of a जादूगर, हैरी कुम्हार, और his friends रोनाल्ड वीज़्ली and हर्माइनी ग्रेंजर, सब of जिसको हैं students at हॉग्वार्ट्स School of चुड़ैल और wizardry.
the main story arc चिंताएं Harry 's quest to overcome the अंधेरा wizard Lord voldemort, whose aims are to become अमर, जीतें the wizarding संसार, subjugate non-magical लोगों, and destroy सब those who स्टैंड in उसके रास्ता, विशेषकर Harry कुम्हार.
Since the रिलीज of the पहला novel हैरी Potter and the Philosopher 's स्टोन on 30 June 1997, the books have gained immense popularity, नाजुक acclaim and वाणिज्यिक success worldwide.
The श्रेणी रै also had कुछ share of आलोचना, सहित concern for the increasingly अंधेरा टोन.
, the किताब series has बेची परिचय 450 लाख copies, making it the best-selling किताब series in history, and has महरूम translated into 67 languages.
The last चार books consecutively set रिकॉर्ड as the fastest-selling किताबे in history.
a series of many genres, सहित काल्पनिक and coming of age ( with elements of mystery, थ्रिलर, एडवेंचर, and रोमांस ), it रै many सांस्कृतिक meanings and सन्दर्भ.
According to रोलिंग, the प्रमुख theme is death.
There are भी many other विषयवस्तु in the श्रेणी, such as पूर्वाग्रह and corruption.
The initial प्रमुख publishers of the books were bloomsbury in the संयुक्त किंगडम and scholastic Press in the United States.
the किताबे have चूंकि महरूम published by many प्रकाशक worldwide.
The books, with the सातवाँ किताब विभाजित into two भाग, have been made into an eight-part film series by Warner भाईs. Pictures, the highest-grossing film series of all समय.
the series also originated much tie-in merchandise, making the हैरी Potter ब्रांड worth in excess of $ 15 अरब.
भी due to the success of the किताबे and films, हैरी Potter has been प्रयुक्त for a theme park, The Wizarding World of हैरी Potter in Universal पार्क & Resorts 's आइलैंड्स of एडवेंचर.
rs-68 होने tested at नासा 's stennis Space Center.
The nearly transparent exhaust is due to इस इंजन 's exhaust being mostly superheated steam ( जल vapor from its propellants, hydrogen and ऑक्सीजन )
Viking 5c प्रक्षेपास्त्र engine
A प्रक्षेपास्त्र engine, or बस `` rocket '', is a jet इंजन कि uses तभी भंडारित propellant द्रव्यमान for forming इसके high speed propulsive जेट.
Rocket इंजन हैं reaction engines and obtain thrust in accordance साथ न्यूटन 's तीसरा विधि.
चूंकि वे need no external material to रूप उनके जेट, rocket इंजन can be used for spacecraft propulsion as well as स्थलीय उपयोग, ऐसे as missiles.
Most प्रक्षेपास्त्र engines हैं आतंरिक combustion engines, although non-combusting forms also exist.
Rocket engines as a समूह have the उच्चतम exhaust velocities, are by दूर the lightest, but are the least propellant efficient of सब types of jet engines.
``... baby एक More समय '' is a song by अमरीकी रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार Britney स्पीयर्स.
it परोसा as Spears 's debut single and शीर्षक track from her debut स्टुडियो एल्बम,... Baby One अधिक Time ( 1999 ).
लिखा by Max Martin and produced by Martin और रामी, ``... Baby One अधिक Time '' थी released on September 30, 1998, by Jive रिकॉर्ड.
बाद recording and sending a demo टेप with an unused song from Toni braxton, स्पीयर्स signed a multi-album सौदे साथ Jive.
``... baby One अधिक समय '' is a टीन पॉप and dance-pop सोंग that refers to a लड़की जो संताप breaking up साथ उसके बॉयफ्रेंड.
the song received generally favorable reviews इससे आलोचकों, who praised its संयोजन.
``... Baby One अधिक Time '' attained global success, reaching number एक in every देश it charted.
It also प्राप्त numerous certifications around the world, and is एक of the best-selling singles of all time, with over 10 million copies sold.
An accompanying music video, directed by निगेल Dick, portrays Spears as a student from a कैथोलिक ऊँची school, who starts to daydream that वो is गायन और dancing around the school, while watching her love ब्याज from अफ़ार.
The music वीडियो was later referenced in the music video of `` If U Seek एमी `` ( 2008 ), where स्पीयर्स 's fictional daughter is वेश with a similar schoolgirl outfit जबकि wearing गुलाबी ribbons in her बाल.
in 2010, the म्यूज़िक video लिये ``... baby एक अधिक समय '' थी voted the तीसरा सबसे influential video in the history of पॉप म्यूज़िक, in a poll आयोजित by jam !.
स्पीयर्स has performed ``... Baby एक अधिक समय '' in a number of सजीव दिखावे और in all of her concert tours.
it was the encore of the... baby एक अधिक समय Tour ( 1999 ) and Dream Within a Dream Tour ( 2001 ) ; Spears also performed remixed versions of the सोंग during the उफ़ !...
I किया It again संसार Tour ( 2000 ), the Onyx Hotel Tour ( 2004 ), the M+M 's Tour ( 2007 ), The Circus Starring britney Spears ( 2009 ), and the Femme fatale दौरे ( 2011 ).
``... Baby एक More समय '' थी nominated for a Grammy Award लिये बेहतरीन मादा Pop गायन Performance, and has महरूम included in lists by ब्लेंडर, Rolling Stone and VH1.
It रै been विख्यात for redefining the ध्वनि of late 1990s म्यूज़िक.
स्पीयर्स has named ``... Baby One अधिक समय '' as one of her favorite गीतों from her करियर.
it थी also the final सोंग to be played on the BBC 's music programme शीर्ष of the चबूतरे.
Cholera is an infection in the छोटी आंत caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae.
The प्रमुख symptoms हैं watery diarrhea and vomiting.
हस्तांतरण occurs primarily by drinking जल or खाने food कि रै been contaminated by the मल ( बर्बाद उत्पाद ) of an संक्रमित व्यक्ति, सहित एक with no apparent लक्षण.
the गंभीरता of the diarrhea and उल्टी can सीसे to रैपिड dehydration और electrolyte imbalance, and मौत in some cases.
The प्राथमिक treatment is oral rehydration therapy, typically साथ oral rehydration solution, to replace जल and electrolytes.
if this is not tolerated or करता नहीं provide improvement fast enough, intravenous fluids can also be प्रयुक्त.
जीवाणुरोधी drugs हैं beneficial in those साथ कठोर disease to shorten इसके अवधि और गंभीरता.
Worldwide, it affects 3–5 लाख लोगों and causes 100,000–130,000 मौतों a year.
Cholera थी एक of the earliest infections to be पढ़ाई by epidemiological methods.
the चित्र of Dorian Gray is the only प्रकाशित novel by Oscar Wilde, appearing as the सीसे story in Lippincott 's Monthly Magazine on 20 June 1890, printed as the July 1890 issue of इस magazine.
The magazine 's editors feared the story थी indecent as submitted, so वे censored roughly 500 words, बगैर वाइल्ड 's ज्ञान, पहले publication.
लकिन even with that, the स्टोरी थी स्टिल greeted with outrage by अंग्रेजों reviewers, कुछ of जिसको suggested that Wilde should be prosecuted on moral grounds, अग्रणी Wilde to defend the अनोखा aggressively in letters to the British press.
Wilde later revised the story लिये किताब publication, बनाना substantial alterations, deleting विवादास्पद passages, adding नई chapters and सहित an aphoristic Preface which रै since become प्रसिद्ध in इसके own right.
the amended version was प्रकाशित by वार्ड, Lock and Company in अप्रैल 1891.
Some विद्वानों believe कि Wilde would today have wanted us to read the version he originally submitted to Lippincott 's.
the novel tells of a young man named डोरियन धूसर, the subject of a पेंटिंग by artist Basil Hallward.
बेसिल is impressed by डोरियन 's सौंदर्य and becomes infatuated with him, believing his beauty is responsible लिये a new mode in his art.
Dorian meets रब Henry Wotton, a friend of Basil 's, and becomes enthralled by Lord हेनरी 's world दृश्य.
Espousing a new hedonism, रब हेनरी suggests the only things लायक pursuing in जीवन are beauty and fulfilment of the senses.
realizing कि one day उसके सौंदर्य होगा fade, डोरियन ( whimsically ) expresses a ख्वाहिश to बेचें his soul to ensure the portrait Basil has painted होता age बल्कि than he.
डोरियन 's काश is fulfilled, and when he subsequently pursues a life of debauchery, the portrait serves as a reminder of the प्रभाव प्रत्येक act रै upon his आत्मा, साथ each sin प्रदर्शित as a disfigurement of उसके रूप, or through a sign of वृद्धावस्था.
the Picture of Dorian धूसर is माना a work of क्लासिक गोथिक fiction साथ a strong faustian theme.
sári Gábor ( born 6 February 1917 ), known as ज़ा ज़ा Gabor ( ), is a Hungarian -born American अभिनेत्री who acted in supporting roles in movies, on ब्रॉडवे, और occasionally on television.
Gabor थी भी a socialite.
She began her stage career in Vienna at आयु 15, और was crowned मिस हंगेरियाई in 1936.
She emigrated to the संयुक्त States in 1941 और became a sought-after actress with `` यूरोपीय फ्लेयर and स्टाइल '', with a personality that `` exuded आकर्षण and grace ''.
उसके first movie role was as supporting actress in Lovely to dekh At.
She later acted in We 're Not Married !
and played one of उसके few अग्रणी roles in Moulin रूज ( 1952 ), directed by John हस्टन, जो वर्णित her as a `` creditable '' अभिनेत्री.
besides उसके film और television appearances, she is best known लिये having nine पतियों, including hotel magnate Conrad हिल्टन और actor George Sanders.
वो एकबार stated, `` Men have always liked me and I have सदा liked men.
But I like a mannish man, a man who knows how to talk to और treat a स्त्री – नहीं just a man with muscles. ''
ब्रूस Lee ( traditional : 李小龍 ; born ली Jun-fan ; 27 नवम्बर 1940 – 20 July 1973 ) थी a चाइनीज अमरीकी martial artist, actor, martial कला प्रशिक्षक, philosopher, और filmmaker.
The संस्थापक of जीत Kune Do, Lee was the son of Cantonese ओपेरा star Lee Hoi-Chuen.
He is widely माना by टीकाकारों, critics, media and other martial artists to be one of the most influential martial artists of all time, और a पॉप culture icon of the 20th सदी.
he is often credited with helping to बदलें the way Asians यहूद प्रस्तुत in अमरीकी films.
Lee थी born in Chinatown, सैन फ्रांसिस्को on 27 November 1940 to parents from हांग काँग and was raised in Kowloon साथ his family until उसके late किशोर.
He थी introduced to the film industry by his father और appeared in अनेक films as a child actor.
ली moved to the संयुक्त राज्य at the age of 18 to receive his उच्चतर education, and it was during इस time that he began teaching martial arts.
His Hong काँग और हॉलीवुड -उपजd films elevated the traditional Hong काँग martial arts फिल्मी to a new स्तर of popularity and acclaim, sparking a surge of ब्याज in Chinese martial कला in the वेस्ट in the 1970s.
the दिशा and tone of his films changed and बहकावे martial कला और martial arts films in Hong काँग and the बाकी of the world.
he is विख्यात लिये his roles in five feature-length films : Lo Wei 's The Big Boss ( 1971 ) और Fist of Fury ( 1972 ) ; रास्ता of the Dragon ( 1972 ), directed and written by ली ; Warner Brothers ' डालें the ड्रैगन ( 1973 ) and the Game of Death ( 1978 ), both निर्देशित by Robert Clouse.
ली became an iconic फिगर ज्ञात throughout the world, विशेषकर among the Chinese, as he portrayed Chinese nationalism in उसके films.
He initially प्रशिक्षित in wing Chun, लकिन later rejected well-defined martial art शैलियाँ, favouring बजाय the उपयोग of तकनीकों from various स्त्रोत, in the spirit of उसके निजी martial arts philosophy, which he dubbed जीत Kune Do ( The Way of the Intercepting Fist ).
Lee आयोजित डुअल citizenship of Hong Kong and the United States.
he died in कोलून टोंग on 20 July 1973 at age 32.
दीर्घकालिक obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ), also known as chronic obstructive lung बीमारी ( COLD ), chronic obstructive airway बीमारी ( coad ), chronic airflow limitation ( CAL ) और दीर्घकालिक obstructive respiratory disease ( cord ), is the occurrence of chronic ब्रोंकाइटिस or emphysema, a pair of commonly co-existing diseases of the lungs in जिससे the airways सीमित over time.
This हद airflow to and from the lungs, causing shortness of breath ( dyspnea ).
In clinical अभ्यास, copd is defined by its characteristically low airflow on lung फलन tests.
In contrast to asthma, इस limitation is poorly reversible and usually gets progressively बदतर over समय.
COPD is caused by noxious अणु or gas, सबसे commonly from tobacco धूम्रपान, which triggers an abnormal inflammatory जवाब in the lung.
the diagnosis of COPD requires lung function परीक्षण.
Important management strategies are smoking cessation, vaccinations, rehabilitation, and ड्रग therapy ( often using inhalers ).
Some मरीजों go on to require long-term oxygen therapy or फेफड़ों transplantation.
Worldwide, COPD ranked as the छठे leading cause of death in 1990.
it is प्रक्षिप्त to become the fourth leading कारण of death विश्वव्यापी by 2030, due to an increase in धूम्रपान rates और जनसांख्यिकी changes in many देशों.
COPD is the तीसरा leading कारण of death in the U.S., and the आर्थिक burden of COPD in the U.S. in 2007 was $ 42.6 अरब in स्वास्थ्य care costs and lost उत्पादकता.
annelies `` ऐनी '' मारी Frank (, ?, ; 12 जून 1929early कूच 1945 ) is one of the most discussed यहूदी victims of the Holocaust.
Her डायरी has महरूम the basis for अनेक plays and films.
Born in the city of Frankfurt am Main in वाइमर जर्मनी, she lived most of उसके life in or निकट Amsterdam, in the Netherlands.
born a German national, Frank lost her नागरिकता in 1941.
She gained international fame posthumously बाद her diary थी published.
It documents her अनुभवों hiding during the German occupation of the Netherlands in World युद्ध ii.
The Frank family moved from Germany to Amsterdam in 1933, the साल the Nazis gained control over जर्मनी.
by the beginning of 1940, they were फंस in एम्सटर्डम by the नाजी occupation of the नीदरलैंड्स.
As persecutions of the Jewish population increased in July 1942, the family गई into hiding in the hidden rooms of Anne 's पिता, Otto Frank 's, दफ्तर building.
After two सालो, the group was betrayed and transported to concentration शिविरों.
ऐनी Frank और उसके sister, Margot, यहूद eventually transferred to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp, where they died of typhus in कूच 1945.
Otto फ़्रैंक, the only उत्तरजीवी of the family, returned to एम्सटर्डम after the war to find कि ऐनी 's diary had महरूम saved, और his efforts led to its publication in 1947.
It was अनूदित इससे its असली डच और first published in English in 1952 as The डायरी of a यंग Girl.
it has चूंकि महरूम translated into many languages.
The diary, which थी given to Anne on उसके 13th birthday, chronicles उसके life इससे 12 June 1942 until 1 August 1944.
Kurt 's signature
कर्ट Donald Cobain ( February 20, 1967 – अप्रैल 5, 1994 ) was an अमरीकी संगीतकार and कलाकार, बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the lead singer, guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana.
कोबेन formed Nirvana साथ Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen, Washington in 1985 and स्थापित it as part of the Seattle music scene, having its debut एल्बम ब्लीच released on the independent record लेबल Sub पॉप in 1989.
After signing with प्रमुख लेबल dgc रिकॉर्ड, the band found breakthrough कामयाबी with `` खुश्बू जैसे Teen Spirit `` from its दूसरी album Nevermind ( 1991 ).
Following the success of nevermind, Nirvana was labeled `` the flagship band '' of पीढी x, and Cobain hailed as `` the प्रवक्ता of a generation ''.
Cobain, however, was प्रायः असहज और frustrated, believing his message and कलाकारी vision to have been misinterpreted by the पब्लिक, with his निजी मुद्दे often विषय to मीडिया attention.
He challenged Nirvana 's audience साथ its फाइनल studio एल्बम in Utero ( 1993 ).
दौरान the पिछला सालो of उसके life, Cobain struggled साथ heroin व्यसन, बीमारी and depression.
He also had परेशानी coping with his कीर्ति और public image, and the professional और lifelong personal pressures surrounding खुद and his wife, संगीतकार Courtney प्रेम.
On April 8, 1994, Cobain was मिला dead at his home in Seattle, the victim of what थी officially शासित a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun घाव to the head.
The हालातों of उसके मौत at आयु 27 have become a topic of public fascination और debate.
Since their डेब्यू, Nirvana, with Cobain as a songwriter, has sold over 25 लाख albums in the U.S., and over 50 million विश्वव्यापी.
रेडियल engine timing and कैम mechanism.
Click for full resolution animation.
रेडियल engine of a बाईप्लेन
निपुण rod ( कतरा ), स्लेव and balances इससे a two-row, fourteen-cylinder Pratt & Whitney Twin बर्र
The radial engine is a reciprocating प्रकार internal दहन इंजन विन्यास in जिससे the सिलेंडर point outward इससे a सेंट्रल crankshaft like the तीलियां of a wheel.
it resembles a stylized स्टार when viewed इससे the सामने, और is called a `` star engine '' ( जर्मनी Sternmotor ) in some languages.
The radial विन्यास was very commonly used in वायुयान engines before turbine engines became predominant.
The सुनहरी Girls is an American sitcom, निर्मित by सुसान Harris, that originally aired on एनबीसी from सितंबर 13, 1985, to May 9, 1992.
अभिनीत bea Arthur, Betty White, Rue McClanahan and estelle Getty, the show centers on four older women sharing a home in Miami, फ्लोरिडा.
it थी उत्पादित by witt/thomas/harris Productions, in संघ साथ touchstone Television, और Paul Junger Witt, टोनी थामस, and Harris served as the original executive निर्माता.
The सुनहरी Girls received critical acclaim throughout सबसे of its run and won several पुरस्कार, including the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy श्रेणी twice.
It भी won three Golden Globe पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Television श्रेणी – Musical or कॉमेडी.
All चार सितारों each received an Emmy Award throughout the श्रेणी ' run and had multiple nominations.
the series also ranked among the top ten highest-rated कार्यक्रम for six out of इसके सात seasons.
Deepwater खुदाई is the process of oil और gas खोजी and production in गहराइयों of more than 500 feet.
by this definition, there are लगभग 600 deepwater wells in the गल्फ of मैक्सिको.
It has महरूम economically infeasible for many years, but with rising आयल कीमतें, more companies हैं investing in this क्षेत्रफल.
प्रमुख कंपनियाँ working in इस सेक्टर शामिल Diamond Offshore, transocean, and बेकर Hughes.
There are basically two kinds of mobile deepwater drilling rigs : semi-submersible drilling rigs and drillships.
खुदाई can also be performed इससे a fixed-position installation such as a floating spar ( platform ) or tension-leg मंच.
हाल industry analysis रै estimated that the total व्यय in the वैश्विक deepwater infrastructure market होगा reach $ 145bn in 2011.
“Not all आयल is accessible on land or in shallow water.
You can find some oil deposits दफ्न deep under the समंदर floor.”... Using sonic equipment, oil कंपनियाँ determine the drilling sites सबसे likely to produce oil.
Then they use a mobile offshore drilling ईकाई ( MODU ) to dig the आरंभिक खूब.
Some units are converted into production rigs, अर्थ they switch from drilling लिये आयल to capturing oil once it 's मिला.
सबसे of the time, the oil company will replace the मोदू with a अधिक स्थाई oil production rig to capture oil.”... the मोदू 's job is to drill down into the ocean 's मंजिल to find आयल deposits.
The भाग of the drill that extends नीचे the डेक and through the जल is पुकारा the riser.
the riser allows लिये drilling fluids to move between the floor और the rig.
इंजीनियर्स निम्नतर a ड्रिल स्ट्रिंग -- a series of पाइप designed to ड्रिल bas to the आयल जमा -- through the riser.”
“The विस्तार of deepwater खुदाई is happening despite accidents in offshore fields... ”
In 2010 a large explosion occurred killing 11 मजदूर और spilling millions of gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico while a bp आयल रिग थी drilling in deep waters.
“... Despite the risks, the deepwater खुदाई ट्रेंड is spreading in the Mediterranean and off the coast of East Africa बाद a स्ट्रिंग of huge discoveries of प्राकृतिक gas.”
“The reason लिये the resumption of such खुदाई, analyst say, is continuing ऊँची demand for energy worldwide.”
America needs the oil so it is लगभग जरुरी to face the ऊँची risks कि आइये साथ deepwater drilling in order लिये Americans to continue to carry on उनके everyday lives.
“The उर्जा Department recently प्रक्षिप्त that गल्फ oil उत्पादन would expand इससे its 2011 स्तर of 1.3 million barrels a दिन, still nearly a क्वार्टर of कुल domestic उत्पादन, to 2 million barrels a day by 2020.”
deepwater drilling affects the पर्यावरण in दोनो negative and धनात्मक ways.
Although Deepwater खुदाई rarely causes oil spills it is स्टिल a hazardous possible outcome.
Oil spills परिणाम in oil sinking to the bottom of the ocean smothering plant life leaving fish without food और shelter to survive.
on the other हाथ deepwater खुदाई प्रभाव the पर्यावरण in a positive ways too.
in time once the deepwater आयल well is नहीं in उपयोग anymore पौधे will grow on and around the खूब बनाना a गुफा or cavern like shelter आदर्श for पशु to thrive in.
deepwater drilling also lets us देखिए the depths of the समंदर floor कि हैं hardly ever seen.
”Cameras on rovers at the नीचे of the कुएं record footage और take फ़ोटो of विरल fish कि हैं in वहीँ natural आवास, giving scientist a look at पशु they rarely seen” ( Chevron निगम ). ''
मोनिका Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23, 1973 ) is an अमरीकी स्त्री with whom संयुक्त States अध्यक्ष विधेयक Clinton admitted to having था an `` improper relationship '' while वो worked at the White हाउस in 1995 and 1996.
The affair and its repercussions ( जिससे शामिल क्लिंटन 's impeachment ) became known as the lewinsky कांड.
फ्रांसिस Albert `` Frank '' Sinatra,, ( दिसम्बर 12, 1915 – May 14, 1998 ) was an अमरीकी singer और फिल्मी actor.
Beginning उसके musical career in the swing era with Harry जेम्स and टॉमी dorsey, Sinatra found unprecedented कामयाबी as a सोलो कलाकार from the early to mid-1940s बाद होने signed to Columbia Records in 1943.
Being the idol of the `` bobby soxers ``, he released his first album, The आवाज़ of Frank सिनात्रा in 1946.
His professional career था stalled by the 1950s, लकिन it थी पुनर्जन्म in 1953 बाद he जीती the अकादमी Award for Best supporting कर्ता for उसके performance in From यहाँ to Eternity.
He हस्ताक्षरित with Capitol रिकॉर्ड in 1953 and released अनेक critically lauded albums ( such as in the Wee Small घंटों, Songs लिये swingin ' Lovers !, आइये मक्खी with Me, Only the Lonely and Nice 'n ' आसान ).
सिनात्रा left Capitol to मिला his अपना record label, reprise रिकॉर्ड in 1961 ( finding success साथ albums such as ring-a-ding-ding !, Sinatra at the Sands and फ्रांसिस अल्बर्ट सिनात्रा & अंतोनियो कार्लोस Jobim ), toured internationally, थी a founding सदस्य of the Rat पैक और fraternized साथ celebrities और statesmen, including John F. कैनेडी.
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965, recorded the retrospective सितंबर of My Years, starred in the एमी -winning television special Frank Sinatra : A man and His Music, और scored hits with `` अजनबी in the रात्रि `` और `` my Way ``.
With बिक्री of his म्यूज़िक dwindling और बाद appearing in अनेक poorly received films, Sinatra retired लिये the first समय in 1971.
Two years बाद, however, he आए आउट of retirement and in 1973 recorded several एल्बम, scoring a शीर्ष 40 hit साथ `` ( Theme From ) New यॉर्क, New York `` in 1980.
Using उसके लास Vegas shows as a घर आधार, he toured दोनो within the संयुक्त States और internationally, until a छोटी time before his death in 1998.
Sinatra also forged a highly कामयाब career as a फिल्मी actor.
After winning बेहतरीन Supporting कर्ता in 1953, he also garnered a nomination लिये Best Actor for The man साथ the Golden भुजा, and critical acclaim लिये his performance in the Manchurian Candidate.
He also starred in such musicals as ऊँची Society, pal जॉय, Guys and Dolls और on the Town.
Sinatra थी honored at the कैनेडी बीच Honors in 1983 and was awarded the Presidential पदक of Freedom by Ronald reagan in 1985 और the Congressional सुनहरा पदक in 1997.
He थी the recipient of ग्यारह Grammy Awards, including the ग्रैमी trustees Award, ग्रैमी Legend Award and the Grammy Lifetime Achievement पुरस्कार.
Sinatra is also one of world’s best-selling कलाकारों of all time, having sold अधिक than 150 लाख copies worldwide.
ठेठ cornhole फलक
Cornhole, भी known as सेम थैला टॉस, corn टॉस, baggo or बैग, is a लॉन game in which players take turns फेंकना corn छेद बैग at a उठाया मंच साथ a hole in the दूर end.
A थैला in the छेद स्कोर 3 points, while one on the मंच स्कोर 1 point.
Play continues until a team or player reaches the score of 21.
the American सुनहरा Eagle is an official gold bullion सिक्का of the संयुक्त राज्य.
Authorized under the सुनहरा Bullion Coin Act of 1985, it was first released by the United States Mint in 1986.
बिक्रम Yoga is a system of योग that Bikram Choudhury synthesized from परंपरागत hatha yoga तकनीकों and popularized शुरूआत in the early 1970s.
सब बिक्रम Yoga classes run for 90 minutes और consist of the same श्रेणी of 26 postures और 2 breathing exercises.
Bikram Yoga is ideally practiced in a रूम heated to 105°f ( ≈ 40.6°C ) with a humidity of 40 %,.
क्रिस्टोफर माइकल massey ( born 26 जनवरी 1990 ) is an American actor, हास्य and rapper best known लिये अभिनीत as Michael Barret in निकलोडियन television series zoey 101.
massey has received अनेक पुरस्कार and nomination सहित a यंग Artist Award और Emmy पुरस्कार nominations.
He is भी known for appearing in several commercials in the जल्दी 2000s.
a conventional teaspoon made of stainless स्टील.
A teaspoon is an मद of cutlery and/or a measuring instrument, as well as a unit of measurement of volume in some countries और कस्टम.
A फर्न is कोई one or more of a group of about 12,000 प्रजाति of पौधे belonging to the botanical group known as pteridophyta.
Unlike mosses, वे have जाइलम and फ्लोएम ( making उन्हें vascular plants ).
They have stems, पत्ते, और roots जैसे अन्य vascular पौधे.
Ferns reproduce via बीजाणुओं and have neither बीज nor पुष्प.
by far the largest group of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns, लकिन ferns as defined यहाँ ( also called monilophytes ) शामिल horsetails, whisk ferns, marattioid ferns, and ophioglossoid ferns.
the term pteridophyte भी refers to ferns and a few other seedless vascular पौधे ( see classification section नीचे ).
Ferns first appear in the fossil रिकार्ड 360 million years ago in the carboniferous लकिन अनेक of the current परिवारों and प्रजाति did नहीं appear जबतक roughly 145 लाख years पहले in the जल्दी Cretaceous ( after flowering पौधे came to dominate अनेक environments ).
ferns are नहीं of major आर्थिक importance, लकिन some are grown or gathered लिये खाना, as ornamental पौधे, for remediating contaminated soils, and have महरूम the subject of research for their ability to remove some रासायनिक pollutants from the एयर.
Some हैं significant weeds.
They also play a role in mythology, आयुर्विज्ञान, और art.
Flat roofs in इसराईल
Flat roof in लॉस एंजिल्स
A flat roof is a type of covering लिये a building.
in contrast to the more sloped form of roof, a flat roof is आड़ा or nearly horizontal.
The slope of a छत is properly known as इसके पिच : Roofs जिससे are nearly चपटा are known as low-pitch roofs ( as the angle of slope increases, so the pitch is said to बढ़ाएँ ).
Any sheet of material used to कवर a चपटा or low-pitched roof is प्रायः ज्ञात as a membrane और the primary purpose of ये membranes is to waterproof the roof area.
Materials कि cover flat roofs typically allow the water to run बंद from a slight inclination or camber into a gutter system.
Water from some flat roofs such as on garden sheds sometimes बहती freely off the edge of a छत, हालांकि gutter systems are of लाभ in keeping both दीवारें and foundations dry.
Gutters on smaller roofs often lead water सीधे onto the ground, or बेहतर, into a विशेषकर बना soakaway.
ड्रेनेज on larger roofs usually सीसे water into the rainwater drainage system of any built up area.
occasionally flat roofs हालांकि are designed to collect water in a pool, प्रायः लिये aesthetic purposes, or for rainwater buffering.
चपटा roofs exist सब over the संसार और प्रत्येक क्षेत्रफल has इसके own परंपरा or वरीयता लिये materials used.
in warmer climes where rainfall is कम and जमने is unlikely to occur, many flat roofs हैं simply निर्मित of masonry or concrete और this is good at keeping out the heat of the sun and सस्ती and easy to निर्माण where timber is not readily उपलब्धियाँ.
in areas where the roof could become संतृप्त by बरसात and लीक, or where जल soaked into the brickwork could freeze to बर्फ and thus सीसे to 'blowing ' ( breaking up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the विस्तार of ice as it forms ) ये roofs are not suitable.
traditionally most flat roofs in the western world मेक उपयोग of tar or अधिक प्रायः तारकोल paper applied over roof decking to keep a building watertight.
The tar or tarpaper is in फेरे covered in gravel to रखना the sun 's heat, uv rays and मौसम off it और helps protect it इससे cracking or blistering और degradation.
Roof अलंकार is usually of plywood, chipboard or OSB फलक ( osb = उन्मुख Strand फलक, भी known as Sterling फलक ) of around 18mm thickness.
The tar कोटिंग is applied in एक or अधिक coats as a hot द्रव, heated in a tar केतली, or as sheets of तारकोल impregnated 'paper ' glued down and sealed together at joints by hot तारकोल - once it has cooled, the gravel is स्प्रेड evenly over it.
A main कारण लिये failure of ये traditional roofs is अनभिज्ञता or कमी of maintenance where people or events cause the gravel to be moved or removed from the tar or tarpaper waterproofing, thus exposing it to मौसम और sun whereupon cracking and blistering occurs over time and eventually water gets in.
Tarpaper is usually a 'paper ' or fibre material soaked or impregnated in tar.
As gravel can not protect tarpaper surfaces where वे rise खड़ा from the छत such as on मुंडेर walls or upstands, tarpaper variants are उत्पादित with fine बजरी applied to the hot तारकोल during the प्रक्रम of manufacture such that a स्थाई layer of gravel is stuck to it in अनुक्रम to दे it ongoing protection.
Tarpapers vary in विशेषता as करता the workmanship and training of those applying it to produce अधिक or कम successful परिणाम.
In कुछ सूक्ष्म climates or shaded areas these बल्कि 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can पिछला well in relation to the लागत of materials खरीदें और cost of laying उन्हें, however the लागत of modern membranes such as EPDM रै come bas over हाल years to make उन्हें अधिक and more affordable.
There हैं now अधिक firms supplying आधुनिक alternatives and there is generally a growing जागरूकता of उनके प्रदर्शन और उपलब्धता.
If a leak करता occur on a flat roof तब damage often goes unnoticed for long अवधि of time during which water penetrates और soaks the decking and any insulation and/or structure beneath it.
इस can lead to expensive damage from the rot which प्रायः develops और if left can weaken the roof structure.
There are also विभिन्न health risks to people और animals breathing the mould बीजाणुओं : the severity of this स्वास्थ्य रिस्क remains a debated point.
एक problem साथ maintaining flat roofs is that if water करता घुस the barrier covering ( be it traditional or a modern membrane ) it can सफर a long way before causing visible क्षति or leaking into a भवन जहाँ it can be seen.
यूँ it is नहीं आसान to see where it is leaking in अनुक्रम to repair it.
Once underlying roof decking is soaked it often sags causing a further collection or puddling of water in कि area and the problem worsens.
A cd-rom ( ) is a pre-pressed compact डिस्क जिससे contains आंकड़ा.
the नाम is an acronym जिससे stands लिये `` कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क Read-only memory ``.
Computers can read CD-ROMs, but can नहीं लिखें on उन्हें.
cd-roms are popularly प्रयुक्त to distribute computer तन्त्र, including वीडियो खेल and मल्टीमीडिया applications, हालांकि any data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ).
Some cds, पुकारा enhanced CDs, hold both कंप्यूटर data and audio with the latter capable of being निभाई on a CD player, while आंकड़ा ( such as software or डिजिटल वीडियो ) is only usable on a कंप्यूटर ( such as आईएसओ 9660 format pc cd-roms ).
The पीला Book is the technical standard कि defines the format of CD-ROMs.
एक of a नियत of color-bound books that contain the technical specifications for सब CD स्वरुप, the Yellow किताब, created by Sony और फिलिप्स, was the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio.
it adapted the स्वरूप to थाम any form of data.
Joanne `` Jo '' Rowling ( ), ( born 31 जुलाई 1965 ), pen name J. K. रोलिंग, is a British उपन्यासकार, best ज्ञात as the author of the Harry Potter fantasy श्रेणी.
the कुम्हार किताबे have gained worldwide attention, won multiple पुरस्कार, and sold more than 400 million copies.
They have become the best-selling book श्रेणी in history, और महरूम the basis for a श्रेणी of films जिससे has become the highest-grossing फिल्मी series in इतिहास.
रोलिंग had overall approval on the scripts as खूब as maintaining रचनात्मक control by serving as a producer on the final किस्त.
born in Yate, Gloucestershire, रोलिंग was working as a researcher and दुभाषिया secretary for माफ़ी अंतरराष्ट्रीय जब वो conceived the idea लिये the Harry कुम्हार श्रेणी on a delayed train from Manchester to London in 1990.
The seven-year काल that followed entailed the death of her mother, तलाक from her पहला husband and poverty until Rowling समाप्त the first novel in the series, Harry Potter and the पारस 's Stone ( 1997 ).
रोलिंग subsequently published 6 sequels—the last, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows ( 2007 ) —as खूब as 3 supplements to the series.
in 2012, रोलिंग parted साथ her agency और resumed writing in the रूप of a tragicomedy novel aimed at adult readership, entitled the कैज़ुअल Vacancy.
रोलिंग रै said she is फिलहाल working on दो books—one aimed लिये adults, the अन्य for children younger than the Harry कुम्हार दर्शक, and she expects the latter to be published first.
Rowling रै led a `` rags to riches `` जीवन story, in which she progressed इससे जीना on राज्य लाभ to multi-millionaire status within पाँच सालो.
She is the संयुक्त Kingdom 's best-selling लेखक since रिकॉर्ड began, with sales in excess of £238m.
The 2008 संडे टाइम्स समृद्ध सूची estimated Rowling 's सौभाग्य at £560 लाख ( $ 798 लाख ), ranking her as the बारहवीं richest स्त्री in the United किंगडम.
Forbes ranked Rowling as the forty-eighth most powerful हस्ती of 2007, and TIME magazine named her as a runner-up for इसके 2007 व्यक्ति of the साल, noting the सोशल, moral, और political inspiration she has given उसके fans.
In October 2010, Rowling थी नामित the `` Most influential स्त्री in Britain '' by अग्रणी पत्रिका सम्पादक.
She has become a notable philanthropist, supporting such charities as Comic Relief, One Parent परिवारों, Multiple काठिन्य Society of Great Britain और Lumos ( formerly the Children 's ऊँची Level समूह ).
Auburndale is a नगर in Polk काउंटी, Florida, United राज्य.
the population was 11,032 at the 2000 census.
according to the U.S जनसांख्यिकी estimates of 2005, the नगर had a जनसांख्यिकी of 12,381.
It is part of the Lakeland – Winter हेवन Metropolitan सांख्यिकीय Area.
Hurricane इसाबेल ( 2003 ) as seen from orbit during Expedition 7 of the International Space Station.
The eye, eyewall, और surrounding rainbands, characteristics of tropical cyclones, are clearly visible in इस दृश्य from space.
A tropical cyclone is a तूफ़ान system characterized by a low-pressure center surrounded by a सर्पिल arrangement of thunderstorms that उपज strong हवाएँ और भारी rain.
Tropical cyclones strengthen when water evaporated from the समंदर is released as the saturated एयर rises, resulting in condensation of जल vapor contained in the moist air.
They हैं fueled by a अलग heat mechanism than other cyclonic windstorms such as nor'easters, European windstorms, and ध्रुवीय चढ़ाव.
the characteristic that separates tropical cyclones from अन्य cyclonic systems is कि at any height in the atmosphere, the बीच of a तीव्र cyclone will be warmer than its surroundings ; a घटना called `` गरम core `` तूफ़ान systems.
The term `` तीव्र '' refers दोनो to the भौगोलिक origin of these प्रणालियों, which usually form in तीव्र regions of the ग्लोब, and to their formation in maritime तीव्र air masses.
The term `` चक्रवात '' refers to such storms ' cyclonic nature, साथ counterclockwise wind flow in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध and clockwise wind प्रवाह in the Southern Hemisphere.
the opposite direction of the wind प्रवाह is a परिणाम of the Coriolis force.
Depending on its स्थान and strength, a तीव्र चक्रवात is referred to by names such as hurricane (, ), typhoon ( ), tropical storm, cyclonic storm, तीव्र अवसाद, और simply cyclone.
जबकि tropical cyclones can उपज extremely powerful हवाएँ और torrential rain, वे are also समर्थ to produce ऊँची waves, damaging storm surge, and tornadoes.
वे develop over large लाशें of warm water, and खोना their strength if they move over land due to increased surface घर्षण और loss of the गरम ocean as an energy source.
इस is why coastal regions can receive significant क्षति from a tropical cyclone, जबकि inland regions are अपेक्षाकृत सुरक्षित from receiving strong हवाएँ.
भारी rains, however, can उपज significant flooding inland, and तूफ़ान surges can produce extensive तटीय flooding up to from the coastline.
Although their प्रभाव on human populations can be devastating, तीव्र cyclones can relieve सूखा conditions.
They also carry heat energy away इससे the ऊष्णकटिबन्ध and हस्तांतरण it toward शीतोष्ण latitudes, जिससे makes उन्हें an महत्वपूर्ण भाग of the global atmospheric circulation यांत्रिकी.
as a परिणाम, तीव्र cyclones सहायता to maintain संतुलन in the Earth 's क्षोभमण्डल, और to maintain a relatively stable और warm temperature worldwide.
Many tropical cyclones develop जब the वायुमंडलीय शर्तें around a weak disturbance in the माहौल are favorable.
the background पर्यावरण is modulated by climatological चक्र और patterns such as the madden-julian दोलन, El niño-southern Oscillation, and the अटलांटिक multidecadal oscillation.
अन्य रूप when other types of cyclones acquire तीव्र characteristics.
तीव्र प्रणालियों are then स्थानांतरित by steering हवाएँ in the troposphere ; if the conditions remain favorable, the tropical disturbance intensifies, and can भी develop an eye.
On the other समाप्त of the spectrum, if the शर्तें around the system deteriorate or the tropical cyclone makes landfall, the प्रणाली weakens and आखिरकार dissipates.
It is not संभावित to artificially induce the dissipation of these प्रणालियों with वर्तमान प्रौद्योगिकी.
किर्क Douglas ( born Issur Danielovitch, ; December 9, 1916 ) is an American stage and film कर्ता, फिल्मी producer और author.
His popular films include Out of the Past ( 1947 ), Champion ( 1949 ), इक्का in the छेद ( 1951 ), The Bad and the Beautiful ( 1952 ), 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea ( 1954 ), Lust लिये Life ( 1956 ), Paths of Glory ( 1957 ), Gunfight at the o.k. Corral ( 1957 ), the वाइकिंग्स ( 1958 ), स्पार्टाकस ( 1960 ), निर्जन Are the Brave ( 1962 ), Seven दिनों in May ( 1964 ), The Heroes of Telemark ( 1965 ) और Tough यारों ( 1986 ).
He is No.17 on the American Film Institute 's list of the महानतम male American स्क्रीन महापुरूष of सब time, बनाना him the highest-ranked living person on the सूची.
in 1996, he received the Academy Honorary Award `` for 50 years as a रचनात्मक and moral फ़ोर्स in the motion picture जातियाँ. ''
he is one of the last surviving actors इससे हॉलीवुड 's `` सुनहरी age ''.
Robert क्लार्क `` Bob '' Seger ( born may 6, 1945 ) is an American rock और फेंकें singer-songwriter, guitarist and pianist.
as a locally कामयाब detroit-area कलाकार, he performed and recorded as bob Seger and the Last Heard और Bob Seger System throughout the 1960s.
By the early 1970s, he had dropped the `` System '' from his रिकार्डिंग और जारी to strive for broader कामयाबी with अन्य विभिन्न bands.
in 1973, he put together the चांदी Bullet बैंड, a group of detroit-area musicians, with whom he became most successful on the नेशनल level with the album सजीव Bullet, recorded सजीव with the चांदी गोली बैंड in 1975 at Cobo हॉल in Detroit, Michigan.
In 1976, he achieved a नेशनल breakout साथ the studio एल्बम Night Moves.
On his स्टुडियो albums, he also worked extensively with the Alabama-based Muscle Shoals लय Section, which appeared on several of seger 's best-selling singles and albums.
A roots रॉकर साथ a क्लासिक raspy, चिल्लाना आवाज़, seger wrote and recorded गीतों that dealt with love, women, blue-collar themes और was an exemplar of heartland चट्टान.
Seger रै अंकित many hits, including `` Night Moves, '' `` Turn the पेज, '' `` we 've मिला Tonight, '' `` Against the हवा, '' and Shakedown कि was written लिये बेवर्ली Hills Cop ii and `` Like a Rock, '' and also co-wrote the ईगल्स ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight. ''
His iconic recording of `` बूढ़ा समय Rock और फेंकें `` थी named one of the Songs of the सदी in 2001.
With a करियर spanning पाँच decades, Seger continues to perform and रिकार्ड today.
seger थी inducted into the चट्टान and फेंकें हॉल of कीर्ति in 2004 and the Songwriters हॉल of कीर्ति in 2012.
Richard Milhous निक्सन ( January 9, 1913 – April 22, 1994 ) थी the 37th President of the संयुक्त States, serving from 1969 to 1974, जब he became the only president to इस्तीफा the office.
Nixon had previously परोसा as a रिपब्लिकन U.S. representative and senator इससे कैलिफ़ोर्निया and as the 36th Vice President of the United राज्य from 1953 to 1961.
Nixon was born in yorba Linda, California.
he ग्रैजुएट from Whittier College in 1934 और Duke विश्वविद्यालयों School of Law in 1937, returning to कैलिफ़ोर्निया to practice विधि.
he और उसके बीवी, Pat Nixon, moved to वॉशिंगटन to कार्य for the federal government in 1942.
He subsequently served in the United States Navy during संसार War II.
Nixon थी elected in कैलिफ़ोर्निया to the House of Representatives in 1946 और to the Senate in 1950.
His pursuit of the Alger hiss मामला स्थापित his reputation as a अग्रणी anti-communist, और elevated him to नेशनल prominence.
he थी the running mate of Dwight D. आइज़नहावर, the रिपब्लिकन Party presidential nominee in the 1952 चुनाव.
Nixon served लिये eight सालो as वाइस president.
he waged an unsuccessful presidential campaign in 1960, narrowly खोने to John F. Kennedy, and खोया a रेस लिये Governor of कैलिफ़ोर्निया in 1962.
In 1968, he ran again लिये the presidency and was elected.
Although निक्सन initially escalated America 's involvement in the Vietnam War, he subsequently ended u.S. भागीदारी in 1973.
Nixon 's विज़िट to the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन in 1972 opened राजनयिक संबंध between the two nations, और he initiated détente और the anti-ballistic Missile सन्धि with the Soviet संघ the same year.
Domestically, his administration generally embraced नीतियों that transferred शक्ति from Washington to the राज्य.
Among other things, he शुभारम्भ पहलों to लड़ो cancer और illegal drugs, imposed wage और दाम controls, enforced desegregation of some Southern schools, और established the Environmental Protection एजेंसी.
Though he presided over the चंद्र अवतरण beginning with अपोलो 11, he scaled वापस manned space exploration.
He थी re-elected by a भूस्खलन in 1972.
Nixon 's second term saw an अरब आयल embargo, the resignation of his vice president, Spiro agnew, and a continuing series of revelations परिचय the Watergate scandal and अन्य misconduct by members of the प्रशासन.
the scandal escalated, costing निक्सन much of उसके political support, और on अगस्त 9, 1974, he resigned in the face of almost निश्चित impeachment और removal इससे दफ्तर.
After his resignation, he controversially received a pardon issued by his successor, Gerald घाट.
In retirement, निक्सन 's work as an elder statesman, authoring several books and undertaking many विदेशी यात्राएँ, helped to rehabilitate उसके पब्लिक image.
He suffered a debilitating stroke on April 18, 1994, and died four days later at the आयु of 81.
{ { Infobox Senator
The Dominican Republic annexation सन्धि caused bitter contention between President ग्रान्ट and Sen. Sumner.
Brady 1869 ] ]
Sen. Sumner, opposed to American साम्राज्यवाद in the Caribbean और fearful that annexation would lead to the conquest of the neighboring black republic of हैती, became convinced कि भ्रष्टाचार lay पीछे the सन्धि, and कि मेन close to the president साझा in the भ्रष्टाचार.
as chairman of the सीनेट Foreign Relations कमेटी, Sen. Sumner initially withheld his opinion on the treaty on January 18, 1870.
Sen. Sumner had been leaked सूचना from Assistant Secretary of State, Bancroft डेविस, कि u.s. नवल ships यहूद being used to protect अध्यक्ष Báez.
sen. Sumner 's committee voted against annexation and at Sen. sumner’s suggestion and काफी संभवतः to save the party from an ugly fight or the president from embarrassment, the सीनेट आयोजित इसके बहस of the सन्धि पीछे closed द्वार in executive session.
President ग्रान्ट persisted and sent messages to Congress in एहसान of annexation on कूच 14, 1870, and May 31, 1870.
in closed सत्र, Sen. Sumner spoke आउट against the treaty ; warnng that there would be परेशानी साथ the विदेशी नागरिकों, noting the chronic विद्रोह that took place on the द्वीप, और the रिस्क कि the independence of हैती, recognized by the संयुक्त States in 1862, would be lost.
Sumner stated कि Grant 's use of the U.S. नेवी as a protectorate was a violation of अंतरराष्ट्रीय law and unconstitutional.
आखिरकार, on जून 30, 1870 the treaty was voted on by the Senate and failed to लाभ the required 2/3 बहुमत for treaty ड्योढ़ी.
The following दिन, President Grant, feeling गद्दारी by Sen. sumner, retaliated by ordering the dismissal of Sumner’s बंद friend J. Lothrop motley, दूत to ब्रिटेन.
By पतझड़, Sumner 's निजी hostility to the अध्यक्ष was public knowledge, and he blamed the सचिव of State for failing to have resigned, rather than let Grant have his way.
The two मेन, friends until तब, cooled into bitter दुश्मनों.
in दिसम्बर, 1870, still fearful that ग्रान्ट meant to acquire Santo Domingo somehow, sumner gave a fiercely critical वाक accusing the अध्यक्ष of usurpation and Babcock of unethical conduct.
Already, President ग्रान्ट, supported by उसके Secretary of राज्य हैमिल्टन मछली, had initiated a अभियान to depose sumner from the अध्यक्षता of the Senate विदेशी Relations Committee.
Although sumner stated he थी an `` प्रशासन man '', in addition to having stopped ग्रान्ट 's Dominican Republic treaty attempt, sumner था defeated ग्रान्ट 's full repeal of the Tenure of दफ्तर अधिनियम, blocked Grant 's नामांकन of Alexander Stewart to U.S. सचिव of Treasury, and been a निरंतर harassing force pushing Reconstruction नीतियों faster than Grant था महरूम willing to go.
Grant resented Sumner 's superiority of manner, as well.
बताई once कि Sumner did not believe in the Bible, the अध्यक्ष is supposed to have said that he was नहीं चकित : `` he did n't write it. ''
as the rift between Grant and Sumner increased, sumner’s health began to decline.
जब the 42nd U.S. कॉंग्रेस convened on कूच 4, 1871, Senators संबद्ध with President Grant, known as ‘’New radicals’’ voted to oust Sen. Sumner इससे the सीनेट विदेशी Relations कमेटी chairmanship.
Business ethics ( भी corporate ethics ) is a रूप of applied ethics or professional ethics कि examines ethical सिद्धान्त and moral or नैतिक problems that उठता in a कारोबार पर्यावरण.
it applies to all aspects of कारोबार conduct और is प्रासंगिक to the conduct of individuals and entire organizations.
कारोबार आचार रै दोनो normative and descriptive dimensions.
As a corporate अभ्यास and a career specialization, the field is primarily normative.
लड attempting to understand business behavior employ वर्णनात्मक methods.
the range and मात्रा of business नैतिक मुद्दे reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing behavior साथ non-economic चिंताएं.
Interest in कारोबार ethics accelerated dramatically दौरान the 1980s and 1990s, both within प्रमुख corporations और within academia.
For उदाहरण, today सबसे प्रमुख corporations प्रचार उनके प्रतिबद्धता to non-economic values under headings ऐसे as आचार कोड and social responsibility charters.
आदम Smith कहा, `` लोगों of the same व्यापार seldom meet साथ, even for merriment and diversion, लकिन the conversation ends in a षड्यंत्र against the public, or in some contrivance to उठाएँ कीमतें. ''
Governments उपयोग कानून and regulations to point कारोबार behavior in कया वे perceive to be beneficial दिशानिर्देश.
आचार implicitly regulates areas and विवरण of बर्ताव that झूठ परे governmental कंट्रोल.
The emergence of large corporations साथ limited relationships and sensitivity to the समुदायों in जिससे they operate त्वरित the विकास of औपचारिक ethics regimes.
A burn is a प्रकार of चोट to flesh or skin caused by heat, विद्युत, रसायन, घर्षण, or विकिरण.
Most burns affect तभी the superficial स्किन ( ज्ञात as superficial or पहला degree ) or extend into the deeper skin but do not involve the full मोटाई of the skin ( known as partial मोटाई or second degree ).
rarely all परतों of the skin or deeper tissues, such as muscle or bone can be घायल in जिससे case the burn is either full thickness ( third degree ) or fourth degree.
The treatment required depends on the गंभीरता of the बर्न.
Superficial burns संभवतः प्रबंधित साथ छोटी अधिक than simple pain killers while प्रमुख burns may आवश्यकता prolonged उपचार in specialized बर्न centers.
Cooling with tap जल may सहायता पीड़ा and decrease damage however if exposure is prolonged it may परिणाम in कम body temperature.
Partial thickness burns may require cleaning साथ साबुन और water followed by dressings.
फफोले should typically be left अखंड.
Full मोटाई burns usually require surgical treatments such as skin grafting और extensive burns often require large amount of intravenous fluids.
the most आम complications of burns हैं related to संक्रमण.
जबकि large burns can be fatal, आधुनिक treatments developed in the last 50 सालो have significantly improved the outcomes, especially in children and यंग adults.
globally about 11 million लोगों seek medical उपचार and 300,000 people die from burns.
in the United States, of those admitted to a burn center, approximately 4 % die from their चोटों.
The long पद outcome is primarily related to the size of burn and the आयु of the व्यक्ति effected.
the Atlantic Ocean, not including Arctic and Antarctic regions
This video was लिया by the crew of Expedition 29 on फलक the ISS.
The pass starts from just north-east of the द्वीप of Newfoundland over the उत्तर अटलांटिक Ocean to central Africa, over South सूडान.
The Atlantic Ocean is the second-largest of the संसार 's oceanic विभाजन.
With a कुल क्षेत्रफल of परिचय, it कवर लगभग 20 प्रतिशत of the Earth 's surface and परिचय 29 percent of its जल surface area.
the first part of its name refers to Atlas of यूनानी mythology, बनाना the Atlantic the `` Sea of Atlas ''.
The oldest known जिक्र of `` Atlantic '' is in The histories of Herodotus around 450 bc ( hdt. 1.202.4 ) : अटलांटिस thalassa ( यूनानी : Ἀτλαντὶς θάλασσα ; अंग्रेज़ी : Sea of एटलस ).
the पद Ethiopic Ocean, derived इससे Ethiopia, was लागू to the southern अटलांटिक as late as the mid-19th century.
Before Europeans खोजा अन्य महासागर, the term `` ocean '' itself was synonymous with the waters beyond the जलसन्धि of जिब्राल्टर कि we now know as the अटलांटिक.
The जल्दी Greeks believed this ocean to be a gigantic river encircling the world.
The Atlantic Ocean occupies an elongated, S-shaped basin extending longitudinally between यूरेशिया and Africa to the east, and the americas to the वेस्ट.
As one component of the interconnected global ocean, it is कनेक्ट in the north to the आर्कटिक Ocean ( जिससे is sometimes considered a sea of the Atlantic ), to the Pacific Ocean in the southwest, the भारतीय समंदर in the southeast, and the Southern समंदर in the दक्षिण.
( Other परिभाषाएं describe the अटलांटिक as extending southward to Antarctica. )
The equator subdivides it into the North अटलांटिक Ocean और दक्षिण अटलांटिक Ocean.
Due to उनके long-term persistence, और the need for a unique identifier in issuing forecasts और warnings, तीव्र cyclones and subtropical cyclones हैं given names according to policy ( देखिए तीव्र cyclone naming ).
the following are lists from which these tropical and subtropical cyclone names are निकला.
White light is dispersed by a प्रिज़्म into the रंगों of the optical वर्णक्रम.
The visible spectrum is the portion of the electromagnetic spectrum कि is दृश्य to ( can be detected by ) the human नजर.
Electromagnetic radiation in this दायरा of wavelengths is पुकारा visible लाइट or simply light.
a typical इंसान eye will respond to wavelengths इससे about 390 to 700 nm.
In शर्तें of आवृत्ति, this corresponds to a band in the vicinity of 430–790 THz.
a light-adapted eye generally has its maximum संवेदनशीलता at around 555 nm ( 540 THz ), in the ग्रीन region of the ऑप्टिकल spectrum ( see : दीप्ति function ).
The spectrum does not, however, contain सब the रंगों कि the human आँखें और brain can distinguish.
Unsaturated colors such as pink, or purple variations ऐसे as magenta, हैं अनुपस्थित, for example, क्युकी they can be made only by a mix of multiple wavelengths.
रंगों containing only one wavelength are also called pure रंगों.
दृश्य wavelengths pass through the `` optical window ``, the region of the electromagnetic वर्णक्रम which allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere.
An उदाहरण of इस phenomenon is that साफ एयर scatters ब्लू light अधिक than रेड wavelengths, और so the midday sky appears blue.
The ऑप्टिकल खिड़की is भी पुकारा the visible window क्युकी it overlaps the इंसान दृश्य जवाब spectrum.
the निकट इन्फ्रारेड ( nir ) खिड़की झूठ just आउट of the human vision, as well as the Medium Wavelength IR ( MWIR ) खिड़की and the Long wavelength or दूर Infrared ( lwir or FIR ) window though अन्य पशु may अनुभव उन्हें.
Many प्रजाति can see लाइट with frequencies outside the `` दृश्य spectrum, '' which is defined in terms of human vision.
मधुमक्खियों and अनेक अन्य कीट can detect ultraviolet light, जिससे helps them ढूँढें nectar in flowers.
संयंत्र प्रजाति कि निर्भर on insect परागण may owe reproductive success to their रूप in ultraviolet लाइट, rather than how colorful वे appear to humans.
Birds, too, can see into the ultraviolet ( 300–400 nm ), और कुछ have sex-dependent markings on their plumage that are दृश्य only in the ultraviolet range.
Many animals that can see into the पराबैंगनी range, however, can not देखिए red लाइट or any other reddish wavelengths.
मधुमक्खियों ' visible spectrum ends at about 590nm, बस before the नारंगी wavelengths start.
Birds, however, can see कुछ red wavelengths, but not as many as इंसानो.
Zebras ( or ) हैं अनेक species of African equids ( horse family ) संयुक्त by their distinctive black and white धारियाँ.
उनके stripes आइये in different पैटर्न, unique to each individual.
They हैं generally social animals that सजीव in small harems to विशाल herds.
नापसंद their closest relatives, horses and asses, zebras have never been truly domesticated.
वहीँ are तीन species of zebras : the plains जेब्रा, the Grévy 's जेब्रा और the mountain जेब्रा.
the plains zebra और the mountain जेब्रा belong to the subgenus hippotigris, but Grévy 's जेब्रा is the एकमात्र प्रजाति of subgenus Dolichohippus.
The latter resembles an ass, to which it is closely related, while the former two हैं more horse-like.
सब three belong to the genus equus, along with अन्य living equids.
The अद्वितीय stripes of zebras मेक them one of the animals most परिचित to लोगों.
They occur in a variety of habitats, such as grasslands, savannas, वुडलैंड्स, thorny scrublands, kyu, and coastal hills.
However, विभिन्न anthropogenic कारकों have had a कठोर impact on zebra populations, in particular शिकार for skins and habitat विनाश.
Grévy 's जेब्रा and the mountain zebra are endangered.
जबकि plains zebras are much more plentiful, एक subspecies, the quagga, became extinct in the late 19th century – हालांकि there is currently a योजना, called the quagga Project, कि aims to breed zebras that हैं phenotypically समान to the quagga in a प्रक्रम पुकारा प्रजनन वापस.
बैरी श्वेत, born Barry यूजीन कार्टर ( – ), थी an अमरीकी composer and singer-songwriter.
A two-time ग्रैमी पुरस्कार -winner ज्ञात for his distinctive बास आवाज़ and रोमांटिक चित्र, श्वेत 's महानतम success आए in the 1970s as a सोलो सिंगर और साथ the प्रेम असीमित Orchestra, crafting many enduring soul, funk, and disco गीतों ऐसे as his two biggest hits, `` You 're the पहला, the Last, My सबकुछ `` और `` Ca n't Get Enough of Your प्रेम, Babe. ''
साथ with इसहाक़ Hayes, श्वेत is considered by allmusic.com as a pioneer of डिस्को म्यूज़िक in the जल्दी 1970s.
During the कोर्स of उसके करियर in the music कारोबार, श्वेत हासिल 106 gold albums worldwide, 41 of जिससे भी attained platinum औकात.
White had 20 gold and 10 platinum singles, साथ विश्वव्यापी बिक्री in excess of 100 लाख, according to critics ed Hogan and Wade Kergan.
His influences शामिल Rev. James क्लीवलैंड, रे Charles, Aretha फ्रैंकलिन प्लस motown artists the supremes, The चार टॉप and Marvin Gaye.
Angelina Jolie (, born Angelina Jolie वोइट ; June 4, 1975 ) is an American actress, film director, and screenwriter.
वो has प्राप्त an Academy Award, दो स्क्रीन Actors Guild पुरस्कार, और three सुनहरी Globe Awards, and was named Hollywood 's highest-paid अभिनेत्री by Forbes in 2009 और 2011.
Jolie promotes humanitarian causes, and is विख्यात लिये her work साथ refugees as a खास envoy और former Goodwill Ambassador लिये the United राष्ट्र High Commissioner for शरणार्थियों ( unhcr ).
वो has often been cited as the world 's `` most beautiful '' woman, a title for जिससे वो रै received substantial मीडिया ध्यान.
Jolie made her screen debut as a चाइल्ड alongside her पिता Jon Voight in Lookin ' to मिलेंगी Out ( 1982 ), but her film career began in सच्चाई a decade later with the low-budget production Cyborg 2 ( 1993 ).
Her पहला leading भूमिका in a प्रमुख film थी in the cyber-thriller Hackers ( 1995 ).
She starred in the critically acclaimed biographical television films जार्ज Wallace ( 1997 ) और gia ( 1998 ), और जीती an Academy Award for बेहतरीन Supporting Actress for her प्रदर्शन in the drama Girl, बाधित ( 1999 ).
Jolie हासिल wide कीर्ति बाद her portrayal of वीडियो खेल heroine Lara क्रॉफ्ट in Lara Croft : Tomb रेडर ( 2001 ), और established herself among the highest-paid अभिनेत्रियों in हॉलीवुड साथ the sequel the पालना of जीवन ( 2003 ).
She जारी her कार्रवाई स्टार career with Mr. & mrs. Smith ( 2005 ) and Wanted ( 2008 ) —her biggest non-animated commercial successes to date—and received further critical acclaim for her प्रदर्शन in the dramas a mighty दिल ( 2007 ) and changeling ( 2008 ), which अर्जित her a नामांकन लिये an अकादमी पुरस्कार for बेहतरीन Actress.
Jolie made उसके directorial debut with the wartime drama In the जमीन of Blood और Honey ( 2011 ).
Divorced from actors Jonny ली Miller और बिली bob थॉर्नटन, जोली अभी जीवनदान with कर्ता ब्रैड Pitt, in a relationship notable लिये fervent मीडिया attention.
Jolie और Pitt have three biological children and तीन अपनाया children.
a प्राकृतिक मेहराब उत्पादित by the erosion of differentially weathered rock in Jebel Kharaz, Jordan
Erosion is the प्रक्रम by जिससे soil और rock are removed इससे the Earth 's surface by exogenetic processes ऐसे as हवा or water flow, और तब transported and deposited in अन्य locations.
While erosion is a natural process, human activities have increased by 10-40 टाइम्स the रेट at जिससे अपरदन is occurring globally.
excessive अपरदन causes problems such as desertification, decreases in agricultural उत्पादकता due to जमीन degradation, sedimentation of waterways, and ecological collapse due to loss of the nutrient समृद्ध upper मृदा layers.
जल and wind erosion are now the two प्राथमिक causes of land degradation ; संयुक्त, they हैं जिम्मेदार for 84 % of degraded acreage, making excessive erosion एक of the सबसे significant global environmental problems.
औद्योगिक agriculture, deforestation, roads, anthropogenic climate change and urban sprawl are amongst the most significant human activities in लिहाज़ to their effect on stimulating erosion.
However, there are अनेक उपलब्धियाँ alternative land use practices that can curtail or सीमा erosion, ऐसे as terrace -building, no-till agriculture, and revegetation of denuded soils.
जर्सी Shore is an American reality टेलीविज़न श्रेणी which ran on एमटीवी इससे December 3, 2009 to December 20, 2012 in the United राज्य.
the श्रेणी follows the lives of eight housemates spending their गर्मियाँ at the जर्सी Shore in the U.S. राज्य of नई जर्सी.
ऋतु 2 followed the cast escaping the cold northeast शीत to Miami Beach, साथ Season 3 returning to the Jersey Shore.
the चौथी season, filmed in इटली, premiered on August 4, 2011.
the दिखाएँ लौटे लिये a fifth season, at Seaside हाइट्स on January 5, 2012.
The fifth season finale aired on March 15, 2012.
on March 19, 2012, MTV confirmed that the series would return for उनके sixth season.
On अगस्त 30, 2012, MTV announced कि the श्रेणी will end after the sixth ऋतु, which premiered on October 4.
the श्रेणी finale aired on दिसम्बर 20, 2012.
the दिखाएँ debuted amid large amounts of विवाद regarding the use of the words `` Guido / Guidette, '' portrayals of italian-american stereotypes, and scrutiny from locals क्युकी the cast members यहूद नहीं निवासियों of the area.
The श्रेणी garnered रिकार्ड ratings for MTV, making it the संजाल 's सबसे viewed series telecast ever.
the श्रेणी ' डाल have also been credited साथ introducing अद्वितीय lexicon and वाक्यांश into American popular संस्कृति.
the विश्वविद्यालयों of Chicago and the विश्वविद्यालयों of Oklahoma are among the educational institutions that have had वर्ग or सम्मेलनों परिचय the show.
In 2010, the डाल of Jersey Shore was नामित on Barbara Walters ' 10 सबसे fascinating People सूची, and the श्रेणी has since महरूम exported to dozens of countries worldwide.
There हैं अनेक remakes of the दिखाएँ in other countries, साथ two नियत in the संयुक्त किंगडम ; the well known geordie Shore, नियत in Newcastle upon Tyne, England.
The अन्य is The घाटियों, the वेल्श समतुल्य, which is filmed और नियत in कार्डिफ.
The only अन्य official remake of the show is Gandía Shore, नियत in Gandía, स्पेन.
right
संयुक्त States territory is कोई extent of region अंतर्गत the jurisdiction of the federal सरकारी of the United States, including all waters ( around islands or महाद्वीपीय tracts ) and all u.s. Naval बरतन.
The United राज्य has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign अधिकारों लिये exploring, exploiting, conserving, and मैनेजिंग its territory.
This extent of territory is all the क्षेत्रफल belonging to, and under the dominion of, the United States federal government ( which शामिल tracts lying at a अलहदा from the देश ) लिये प्रशासनिक और other purposes.
The United राज्य total territory शामिल a उपसमुच्चय of राजनैतिक divisions.
The u.S. सरकारी is a सरकारी साथ delegated powers under the संयुक्त States संविधान.
`` The शक्तियां not प्रतिनिधित्व to the संयुक्त States by the Constitution, nor निषिद्ध by it to the States, are reserved to the राज्य respectively, or to the लोगों '' by the दसवाँ Amendment.
टर्मिनेटर 3 : वृद्धि of the मशीने ( commonly abbreviated as t3 ) is a 2003 science fiction कार्रवाई फिल्मी directed by जोनाथन Mostow और starring Arnold Schwarzenegger, Nick Stahl, क्लेयर danes and kristanna Loken.
it is the second sequel to The टर्मिनेटर ( 1984 ).
After Skynet fails to kill सारा connor before her son is born और to kill John himself as a चाइल्ड, it भेजना back another Terminator, the t-x, in an attempt to wipe आउट as many Resistance officers as possible.
इस includes John 's भविष्य wife, लकिन नहीं जॉन himself as his whereabouts हैं unknown to Skynet.
John 's life is लगाई in danger जब the T-X accidentally finds him.
a cord of wood
The cord is a unit of माप of dry volume used in Canada and the United States to measure firewood and pulpwood.
a cord is the amount of लकडी that, when `` ranked and well stowed '' ( arranged so टुकड़े are aligned, parallel, touching and कॉम्पैक्ट ), occupies a आवाज़ of.
इस corresponds to a खूब stacked woodpile ऊँची, long, and deep ; or any other व्यवस्था of linear माप that yields the same आवाज़.
The name cord probably comes from the use of a cord or string to माप it.
the, is an 8-bit handheld video game device विकसित and manufactured by निन्टेंडो.
It was released in जापानी on, in उत्तर America in, and in Europe on.
it is the first handheld कंसोल in the Game Boy line, and was created by Gunpei yokoi और Nintendo Research & विकास 1 —the same staff who had designed the Game & देखें series as खूब as अनेक popular खेल लिये the Nintendo Entertainment प्रणाली.
Redesigned संस्करण यहूद released in 1996 and 1998, in the रूप of Game Boy Pocket, and Game लड़के Light ( Japan only ), respectively.
the खेल Boy is निन्टेंडो 's second हैंडहेल्ड प्रणाली following the खेल & देखें श्रेणी introduced in, and it combined सुविधाएँ from दोनो the Nintendo entertainment System and Game & Watch.
It was originally bundled with the puzzle game Tetris.
as भाग of the चौथी पीढी of gaming, the Game Boy competed with the sega खेल गियर, atari लिंक्स, और the TurboExpress.
despite these other technologically श्रेष्ठ हैंडहेल्ड consoles, the खेल Boy was a tremendous success.
The Game Boy and its successor, the Game लड़के Color, have दोनो combined sold 118.69 million units विश्वव्यापी.
Upon its release in the संयुक्त States, it sold इसके entire शिपमेंट of एक लाख इकाई within सप्ताह.
The World Trade Center is a complex of इमारतें अंतर्गत निर्माण in Lower Manhattan, नई York City, United States, replacing an पहले complex of सात इमारतें साथ the same नाम on the same साईट.
The असली संसार Trade Center featured landmark जुड़वा मीनारें, which खोली on April 4, 1973 और were destroyed in the सितंबर 11 attacks of 2001, along with 7 World व्यापार बीच.
the अन्य इमारतें in the complex were damaged in the हमले, and उनके ruins were eventually demolished.
The site is being rebuilt साथ पाँच new skyscrapers and a memorial to those मारे in the हमले.
, only एक skyscraper has महरूम समाप्त ; the अन्य चार are expected to be समाप्त पहले 2020.
One संसार व्यापार Center will be the सीसे भवन for the नई जटिल, reaching more than 100 stories at इसके पूर्णता.
It became the tallest भवन in New York City on April 30, 2012, and is अपेक्षित to be समाप्त by 2013.
a छठे tower is प्रतीक्षारत confirmation.
At the time of their पूर्णता, the original 1 World व्यापार बीच ( the North Tower ) and 2 संसार Trade Center ( the South Tower ), ज्ञात collectively as the `` जुड़वा Towers '', were the tallest buildings in the world.
the अन्य buildings included 3 WTC ( the Marriott World Trade Center ), 4 wtc, 5 WTC, 6 WTC, and 7 WTC.
सब of these इमारतें यहूद built between 1975 और 1985.
the लागत for the construction was $ 400 लाख ( $ in dollars ).
the complex was स्तिथ in the दिल of नई York City 's शहर financial ज़िला and contained 13.4 million square फीट ( 1.24 लाख m2 ) of office space.
The World व्यापार Center अनुभवी a आग on, 1975, a bombing on, 1993 and a robbery on, 1998.
In 1998, the Port Authority decided to privatize the World व्यापार Center, पट्टे the buildings to a private company to मैनेज, और awarded the lease to silverstein गुण in.
On the morning of सितंबर 11, 2001, Al-Qaeda -affiliated hijackers flew two Boeing 767 jets into the complex, one into प्रत्येक tower, in a coordinated terrorist आक्रमण.
बाद burning for 56 minutes, the दक्षिण Tower ( 2 ) collapsed, followed a half-hour later by the North Tower ( 1 ), साथ the हमले on the World व्यापार Center resulting in 2,753 मौतों.
Falling debris from the मीनारें, संयुक्त with fires कि the debris initiated in अनेक surrounding buildings, led to the आंशिक or complete पतन of all the other buildings in the जटिल और caused अनर्थकारी damage to ten other large structures in the surrounding क्षेत्रफल.
The process of cleanup और रिकवरी at the World Trade Center site took eight months.
over the following years, plans लिये a rebuilt संसार व्यापार Center took रूप.
The first नई भवन at the साईट was 7 World Trade Center, which opened in.
The निम्नतर Manhattan विकास Corporation ( LMDC ), स्थापित in to oversee the rebuilding process, व्यवस्थित competitions to select a site plan and memorial design.
मेमोरी Foundations, designed by Daniel Libeskind, was selected as the master plan, but this went through substantial changes in design.
The new World व्यापार Center जटिल होगा include एक संसार व्यापार बीच, तीन अन्य high-rise दफ्तर towers, and the National सितंबर 11 Memorial & संग्रहालय.
San जिबरील Mountains
सैन bernardino Mountains, with mt. San Gorgonio in the foreground और बिग Bear Lake in the पृष्ठभूमि.
The Transverse Ranges हैं a group of mountain ranges of southern California, in the प्रशांत coast सीमाएँ physiographic प्रदेश in North America.
The अनुप्रस्थ सीमाएँ begin at the southern end of the California Coast Ranges and झूठ between सांता Barbara and San डिएगो counties.
They derive the name Transverse Ranges due to उनके east-west orientation, बनाना them transverse to the general North-South orientation of सबसे of कैलिफ़ोर्निया 's coastal mountains.
Periodic तालिका with electron shells
an electron shell may be thought of as an orbit followed by electrons around an अणु 's nucleus.
The closest shell to the nucleus is called the `` 1 शेल '' ( भी पुकारा `` K shell '' ), followed by the `` 2 shell '' ( or `` L शेल '' ), then the `` 3 शेल '' ( or `` M शेल '' ), और so on farther और दूर इससे the nucleus.
the शेल अक्षर k, l, M,..., used in the X-ray notation, are alphabetical.
Each shell can contain only a फिक्स्ड number of electrons : The 1st शेल can hold up to two electrons, the 2nd shell can थाम up to आठ electrons, the 3rd शेल can hold up to 18, और 4th शेल can थाम up to 32 and so on.
Since electrons are electrically attracted to the nucleus, an atom 's electrons will generally occupy बाहरी शेल only if the more inner शेल have already been completely filled by अन्य electrons.
However, this is नहीं a सख्त आवश्यकता : Atoms may have two or even तीन incomplete outer shells.
( See madelung नियम for more विवरण. )
लिये an explanation of why electrons exist in these shells see electron विन्यास.
The electrons in the outermost occupied shell ( or शेल ) determine the chemical गुण of the atom ; it is called the valence शेल.
Each shell consists of एक or more subshells, and each subshell consists of one or अधिक परमाणु orbitals.
Vickie lynn Marshall ( née Hogan ; नवम्बर 28, 1967 – फ़रवरी 8, 2007 ), known by her moniker anna Nicole Smith, थी an अमरीकी model, actress, and टेलीविज़न personality.
Smith पहला gained popularity in प्लेबॉय, becoming the 1993 संगिनी of the साल.
She modeled for clothing companies, सहित अंदाज़ा जीन्स and लेन Bryant.
Smith dropped out of high school और was शादीशुदा in 1985.
Her highly publicized second विवाह to oil कारोबार mogul, J. Howard Marshall, 62 years उसके senior, resulted in अटकलें that वो married the octogenarian for his धन, which she अस्वीकृत.
Following मार्शल 's death, Smith began a lengthy विधिक बैटल over a share of उसके एस्टेट.
Her case, Marshall v. Marshall, reached the u.S. परम् Court on a question of संघीय jurisdiction, और again on a question of दिवालियापन court प्राधिकार ( now पुकारा Stern v. Marshall ).
Smith died on February 8, 2007 in a हॉलीवुड, Florida hotel रूम as a result of an overdose of prescription दवाएँ.
भीतर the final six महीने of उसके life, Smith थी the focus of a नवीनीकृत दबायें कवरेज surrounding the मौत of उसके son, Daniel, and the paternity and कस्टडी बैटल over her नवजात daughter, Dannielynn.
The is एक denomination of Japanese yen.
the वर्तमान design थी पहला minted in 1959 using जापानी characters known as the `` new script ``, और यहूद also minted from 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' जापानी characters.
five-yen सिक्के तिथि to 1870 ( when, due to the much higher value of the yen, they यहूद minted in सुनहरा ).
The सामने of the सिक्का depicts a rice plant growing आउट of the water, with `` five yen '' written in kanji ; the वापस is stamped साथ `` Japan '' और the साल of समस्या, भी in kanji, अलग by sprouts of a tree.
the तीन graphic तत्व of the coin represent agriculture and fisheries, the key तत्व of the जापानी first-sector economy.
Around a hole, वहीँ is a gear कि represents industry.
It is the तभी Japanese coin in circulation to lack अरबी numerals on either face.
TLC is an American girl group whose रंगमंडल spanned r & B, hip हॉप, आत्मा, दुर्गंध, और new जोकर swing.
Originally consisting of singer tionne `` T-Boz '' Watkins, rapper Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes और सिंगर Rozonda `` Chilli '' Thomas, the group found unprecedented कामयाबी in the 1990s जबकि भी enduring a series of spats with the law, प्रत्येक अन्य, and the समूह 's record label.
Initially, tlc हासिल commercial success following the release of their debut album Ooooooohhh...
On the tlc टिप, which sold 6 लाख copies worldwide.
However, it was their second album, crazysexycool, that catapulted the group to superstar status.
CrazySexyCool went on to be certified डायमंड by the RIAA — a पहला for a मादा group, and eventually sold 23 लाख नक़ल worldwide.
Five years बाद, the group released their third एल्बम FanMail, जिससे became the group 's पहला album to डेब्यू at number one और sold more than 11 लाख copies worldwide.
the subsequent tour following FanMails release became the highest grossing दौरे of all समय by a मादा band.
in 2002, लिसा `` बाएँ नजर '' Lopes died in a car दुर्घटना in Honduras.
सात months बाद, T-Boz and chilli released the group 's fourth एल्बम 3D, which बेची 2 million copies विश्वव्यापी, it प्रदर्शित unreleased vocals इससे बाएँ Eye.
बिलबोर्ड magazine क्रमित tlc as एक of the महानतम musical trios.
between 1992 और 2003, the band accumulated टेन शीर्ष ten singles, four number one singles, चार multi-platinum albums, और चार Grammy पुरस्कार.
At the समाप्त of 1999, tlc was ranked as the सातवाँ most कामयाब act of the 1990s by Billboard.
In 2008, the समूह was inducted into the सब Time Hot 100 Artist हॉल of कीर्ति by the same magazine, at 56th प्लेस.
कि साल it थी also सूचीबद्ध as the # 25 R & B/hip-hop artist of the preceding 25 सालो.
TLC रै sold more than 65 million records worldwide and वे हैं क्रमित as the दूसरी best selling female group of सब समय, and the best selling मादा R & B group of all time.
In 2012, tlc क्रमित 12th on vh1 's 100 Greatest Women in म्यूज़िक, होने क्रमित the number एक सब girl समूह on कि सूची.
Tarzan is a 1999 अमरीकी animated adventure film produced by Walt डिज़्नी विशेषता एनिमेशन और वितरित by Walt Disney तस्वीरें.
The 37th फिल्मी in the वॉल्ट Disney Animated Classics, it is आधारित on the story Tarzan of the Apes by Edgar Rice बरोज, and is the तभी प्रमुख motion picture संस्करण of the स्टोरी Tarzan प्रॉपर्टी to be animated.
निर्देशित by क्रिस Buck and केविन Lima with a screenplay by tab मर्फी, Bob tzudiker, और नोनी White, Tarzan features the voices of Tony Goldwyn, Minnie ड्राइवर, ग्लेन Close, और रोजी o'donnell with ब्रायन Blessed, Lance henriksen, Wayne Knight, और Nigel Hawthorne.
It थी the पिछला bona fide hit before the Disney slump of the early 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically और $ 448,191,819 worldwide, outgrossing its predecessors hercules ( 1997 ) और Mulan ( 1998 ).
At the समय of its रिलीज, its उत्पादन बजट of $ 130 million made it the most expensive animated film ever made, until topped by Disney 's अपना $ 140 million खजाना Planet in 2002.
It was भी the first Disney animated विशेषता to खोलें at # 1 चूंकि pocahontas.
This थी the last प्रमुख बक्सा office success of the Disney Renaissance.
Oil Platform p-51 off the Brazilian coast is a semi-submersible platform.
Oil मंच Mittelplate in the North sea
An आयल platform, ( offshore platform or colloquially आयल रिग ) is a विशाल structure साथ facilities to ड्रिल wells, to extract और प्रक्रम oil और प्राकृतिक गैस, और to temporarily स्टोर product जबतक it can be brought to shore for refining and marketing.
In अनेक cases, the मंच contains facilities to house the workforce as खूब.
depending on the हालातों, the platform may be fixed to the समंदर floor, may consist of an artificial द्वीप, or may float.
Remote subsea कुएं may also be कनेक्ट to a platform by flow लाइनों and by umbilical connections.
These subsea solutions may consist of one or more subsea कुएं, or of one or अधिक manifold केंद्रों for multiple कुएं.
Slaughter is the हत्या of animals, प्रायः कि of घरेलू livestock लिये खाना.
The animals most commonly slaughtered लिये food हैं चौपायों, water भैंस ( for beef और veal ), sheep, goats ( for मेमने and मटन ), pigs ( लिये pork ), horses ( for घोड़ा मांस ), and fowl, largely chickens, turkeys, and बतखों और increasingly fish from the aquaculture industry ( fish खेती ).
The White हाउस, the president 's official निवास and center of the प्रशासन
Under the United राज्य संविधान, the President of the United राज्य is the head of राज्य and सिर of government of the United राज्य.
As मुख्य of the कार्यपालिका branch and सिर of the संघीय government as a पूरे, the प्रेसिडेंसी is the highest political office in the United States by influence and मान्यता.
The president is also the commander-in-chief of the संयुक्त States हथियारबंद Forces.
The अध्यक्ष is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral College ( or by the House of Representatives should the चुनावी College fail to award an निरपेक्ष majority of votes to any person ).
चूंकि the अनुसमर्थन of the twenty-second Amendment to the United राज्य Constitution in 1951, no person may be elected अध्यक्ष more than twice, and no one who has served अधिक than two years of a term to जिससे किसी else थी निर्वाचित may be elected more than एकबार.
upon the death, इस्तीफा, or हटाना from office of an incumbent President, the वाइस अध्यक्ष assumes the दफ्तर.
The President जरूर be at तनिक 35 सालो of आयु and a `` प्राकृतिक born '' citizen of the United States.
This सूची includes तभी those व्यक्तियों जो were sworn into office as अध्यक्ष following the ratification of the United States Constitution, which took effect on कूच 4, 1789.
लिये अमरीकी leaders before इस ratification, देखिए President of the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस.
The list does not include any एक्टिंग Presidents अंतर्गत the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution.
There have been 43 people sworn into office, and 44 presidencies, as Grover Cleveland परोसा two non-consecutive terms and is गिने क्रमबद्धता as both the 22nd और 24th अध्यक्ष.
of the individuals निर्वाचित as president, चार died in office of प्राकृतिक causes ( विलियम Henry हैरिसन, zachary टेलर, वारेन G. हार्डिंग, और फ्रैंकलिन D. Roosevelt ), चार were assassinated ( Abraham lincoln, James A. गारफ़ील्ड, विलियम mckinley, और John F. कैनेडी ) and एक resigned ( रिचर्ड Nixon ).
जार्ज वॉशिंगटन, the first president, थी inaugurated in 1789 बाद a सर्वसम्मत vote of the चुनावी College.
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in दफ्तर with 32 days in 1841, and फ्रैंकलिन D. Roosevelt spent the longest with over बारह years, लकिन died shortly into his fourth term in 1945.
He is the only अध्यक्ष to serve अधिक than two terms, and a constitutional amendment, affecting presidents after हैरी Truman, was passed to सीमा the number of times an व्यक्तिगत can be elected अध्यक्ष.
Andrew जैक्सन, the seventh अध्यक्ष, थी the first to be निर्वाचित by men of सब classes in 1828 बाद सबसे कानून barring non-land-owners इससे voting were repealed.
Warren Harding थी the first निर्वाचित after women gained voting rights in 1920.
History रिकॉर्ड four presidents – John q एडम्स, Rutherford B. Hayes, Benjamin Harrison and जार्ज W. Bush – who lost the लोकप्रिय vote but assumed office.
जॉन F. Kennedy रै महरूम the तभी अध्यक्ष of Roman कैथोलिक faith, and the current अध्यक्ष, बराक ओबामा, is the first president of African descent.
Several firearms with detachable suppressors, इससे top to नीचे : An uzi, An AR-15, A heckler & koch खासियत Tactical, a beretta 92FS, and a SIG Mosquito.
bolt action rimfire राइफल with suppressor
AWM-F स्निपर राइफल with संलग्न suppressor.
A suppressor, sound suppressor, or ध्वनि moderator, is a यंत्र attached to or भाग of the barrel of a firearm जिससे reduces the राशि of रव, and usually the राशि of muzzle flash, generated by firing the हथियार.
a suppressor can be used both साथ a firearm और साथ संपीडित air gun.
हालांकि it is sometimes referred to as a silencer, इस term is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the sound of a projectile, विशेषकर एक moving तेज़ than the गति of ध्वनि, through the air can नहीं be eliminated.
Using a suppressor in long distance शूटिंग ( i.e. वृहद than 300 मीटर ) can lessen, or retard, the रपट at the moment of प्रभाव, and create the impression of खामोशी near the निशाना.
The noise सुना निकट the muzzle as a प्रक्षेप्य leaves the बैरल, though subdued, is not silent at सब.
A suppressor is usually a मेटल बेलन साथ internal mechanisms to reduce the sound of फायरिंग by slowing the escaping propellant gas और sometimes by reducing the गति of the bullet.
जल्दी suppressors यहूद created around the शुरूआत of the 20th सदी by several आविष्कारक.
American आविष्कारक Hiram पर्सी कहावत ( not to be confused with Hiram Stevens Maxim, hiram Percy 's father, और the inventor of the कहावत Machine गन ), is credited साथ inventing and selling the first commercially कामयाब models circa 1902 ( patented 30 March 1909 ).
Maxim gave his यंत्र the trademarked नाम Maxim Silencer.
The muffler for internal दहन इंजन was developed in parallel with the firearm suppressor by Maxim in the जल्दी 20th century, using many of the वही techniques to provide quieter-running engines ( in many European countries ऑटोमोबाइल mufflers हैं still पुकारा silencers ).
The word silencer in सन्दर्भ to गन suppressor remains in widespread use, although it रै चूंकि गिरे आउट of favor with some, especially among the firearms industry, being replaced with the अधिक वस्तुतः accurate term ध्वनि suppressor or just suppressor, because a `` ध्वनि suppressor '' करता नहीं `` silence '' कोई हथियार, rather it eliminates muzzle flash and reduces the सोनिक दबाव of a firearm discharging.
Common usage and u.S. legislative भाषा favor the historically earlier term, silencer.
in U.S. विधि, the terms `` firearm मफलर '' and `` firearm silencer '' are synonymous.
Suppressors were regularly used by एजेंटों of the United राज्य Office of रणनीतिक सेवाएं, who favored the newly designed High मानक hdm.22 long राइफल पिस्टल during World युद्ध II.
OSS Director विलियम जोसेफ `` जंगली Bill '' डोनोवन demonstrated the pistol लिये President Franklin D. Roosevelt at the श्वेत हाउस.
according to OSS शोध chief Stanley लोवेल, डोनोवन ( an बूढ़ा and विश्वसनीय dost of the President ) was waved into the Oval Office, जहाँ रूज़वेल्ट थी dictating a letter.
जबकि Roosevelt समाप्त उसके message, Donovan turned his वापस and fired टेन shots into a sandbag he था brought साथ him, announced what he था किया और handed the smoking gun to the astonished president.
The British SOE ( Special परिचालन कार्यपालिका ) welrod हत्या पिस्टल साथ an अभिन्न suppressor was also प्रयुक्त by the American OSS on clandestine operations in Nazi occupied Europe during the Second World War.
Beatrice `` Bea '' आर्थर ( may 13, 1922 – April 25, 2009 ) थी an American अभिनेत्री, comedienne, and singer जिनकी career spanned सात decades.
Arthur achieved fame as the अक्षर Maude Findlay on the 1970s sitcoms सब in the Family और maude, और as डोरोथी Zbornak on the 1980s sitcom the सुनहरी Girls, winning एमी Awards for दोनो roles.
A stage अभिनेत्री both पहले and बाद उसके television success, she जीती the Tony Award लिये बेहतरीन Featured अभिनेत्री in a Musical for her प्रदर्शन as Vera Charles in the असली cast of Mame ( 1966 ).
is a 2011 Japanese 3D computer-animated film आधारित on the Tekken वीडियो game श्रेणी, उत्पादित by डिजिटल frontier and distributed by Asmik इक्का Entertainment in association with बंदाई Entertainment.
The फिल्मी premiered in उत्तर America by Bandai Entertainment on जुलाई 26, 2011, and in Australia on जुलाई 27, 2011 in a खास exclusive one-off स्क्रीनिंग.
it थी released on सितंबर 3, 2011 in Japan.
The film was released on Blu-ray Disc on November 22, 2011 for USA, and December 1, 2011 for जापानी.
This film was also released on DVD on नवम्बर 22, 2011 ( 2D संस्करण only ).
The फिल्मी थी additionally included with the PlayStation 3 खेल, tekken Hybrid, और the Nintendo 3DS title, Tekken 3D : Prime संस्करण.
लिये a चर्चा of nonprofit, voluntary पड़ोस वकालत समूह, see पड़ोस संघ.
In the United States, a homeowner संघ is a निगम formed by a real estate developer for the purpose of विपणन, managing, और selling of homes and लोट in a residential subdivision.
it grants the developer विशेषाधिकार voting अधिकारों in शासी the association, while allowing the developer to निकास financial and legal responsibility of the organization, typically by transferring ownership of the association to the homeowners after selling बंद a predetermined क्रमांक of lots.
Membership in the homeowners association by a residential खरीदार is typically a कंडीशन of purchase ; a खरीदार is n't given an विकल्प to अस्वीकृत it.
सबसे homeowner एसोसिएशन हैं incorporated, and are subject to राज्य statutes that govern non-profit corporations और homeowner associations.
राज्य oversight of homeowner एसोसिएशन is minimal, और mainly takes the form of laws which are असंगत इससे state to state.
Some states, such as Florida and California, have a large body of homeowner संघ law, and some states, such as Massachusetts, have virtually no homeowner association विधि.
The fastest growing रूप of housing in the संयुक्त States today is common-interest developments ( cids ), a श्रेणी that includes planned-unit developments of single-family homes, condominiums, and cooperative apartments.
चूंकि 1964, homeowner associations have become increasingly common in the USA.
The Community Associations Institute trade association अनुमानित कि HOAs governed 24.8 लाख अमरीकी homes and 62 लाख निवासियों in 2010.
a prize-winning lilac-and-white silkie
वहीँ हैं अनेक breeds of गिनी pig जिससे have been विकसित since its domestication ca. 5000 BC.
breeds vary widely in रूप and purpose, ranging from show breeds साथ long, flowing hair to those in उपयोग as model जीवों by science.
इससे ca. 1200 AD to the Spanish conquest of the इन्का Empire in 1532, selective प्रजनन by indigenous South American peoples resulted in many किस्में of domestic Guinea pigs, जिससे रूप the basis for कुछ of the modern domestic breeds.
जल्दी andean breeds were primarily kept as agricultural stock for food, and efforts at improving the गिनी सुअर as a food सोर्स continue to the modern era.
With the export of गिनी pigs to यूरोपीय in the 15th century, the लक्ष्य in breeding shifted to focus on the विकास of appealing pets.
to this समाप्त, various competitive प्रजनन संगठन were founded by fanciers.
The American Cavy Breeders Association, an adjunct to the American Rabbit प्रजनक संघ, is the governing देह in the United States and Canada.
the British Cavy परिषद governs cavy क्लब in the United किंगडम.
Similar organizations exist in ऑस्ट्रेलिया ( ऑस्ट्रेलियाई National Cavy परिषद ) और New Zealand ( नई Zealand cavy Club ).
Each क्लबों publishes its own मानक of Perfection and determines which breeds are eligible for प्रर्दशित.
New breeds continue to emerge in the 21st century.
हालांकि there are many breeds of Guinea सुअर, only a few breeds हैं commonly मिला on the show table as pets.
सबसे गिनी सूअर found as pets were either found अवांछनीय by प्रजनक or were करवाया to be pleasant pets regardless of how खूब they मिलें the breed standard of perfection.
the छोटी hair, abyssinian, Peruvian and Sheltie ( aka Silkie ) breeds हैं those सबसे अक्सर देखी as पालतु, and the पूर्व three हैं the कोर breeds in the history of the competitive प्रर्दशित of Guinea pigs.
In addition to उनके मानक form, nearly all breeds आइये in a साटन variant.
satins, due to their hollow बाल shafts, possess coats of a special gloss और shine.
However, there is growing evidence that the genes responsible लिये the Satin कोट भी can cause severe अस्थि problems, including Osteodystrophy and Paget 's बीमारी.
Showing Satin variations is prohibited by कुछ cavy breeders ' एसोसिएशन because of animal welfare कारण.
All cavy breeds have some साझा सामान्य standards : the head profile चाहिए be rounded, with large eyes and विशाल, smooth ears.
the देह चाहिए be strong and of compact निर्माण.
Coat colour चाहिए in all variations be clearly पारिभाषित and thorough इससे root to tip.
ये standards are best met by long स्थापित, commonly bred breeds, as their प्रजनक have had enough time और animals to effectively breed लिये these qualities.
The coat colour ideal of शुभ परिभाषा and thoroughness is rarely मिले by अन्य than the smooth coated breeds, जिससे have था खूब established, separate breeding लाइनों for different colours.
State schools ( भी known as public schools or सरकारी schools ) generally refer to primary or secondary schools mandated लिये or offered to all children without charge सशुल्क लिये, in whole or in part, by कराधान.
The term may भी refer to institutions of post-secondary education वित्तपोषित, in whole or in part, और overseen by government.
the ribosome assembles polymeric प्रोटीन अणुओं whose अनुक्रम is controlled by the sequence of मेसेंजर RNA molecules.
This is जरूरी by all living कोशिकाएं and संबद्ध वाइरस.
The ribosome ( इससे ribonucleic एसिड and the यूनानी soma, अर्थ `` body '' ) is a large and जटिल आणविक machine, found within सब living cells, कि serves as the primary site of biological protein synthesis ( अनुवाद ).
Ribosomes link amino acids together in the order specified by messenger RNA ( mrna ) अणुओं.
ribosomes consist of two major subunits—the small ribosomal subunit पढ़े the mrna, while the large subunit joins amino acids to रूप a polypeptide chain.
Each subunit is composed of one or more ribosomal rna ( rRNA ) अणुओं and a variety of proteins.
The sequence of डीएनए encoding लिये a protein may be copied many times into मेसेंजर RNA ( mRNA ) जंजीरों of a समान sequence.
ribosomes can bind to an mrna कड़ी and उपयोग it as a template for determining the correct sequence of amino acids in a particular प्रोटीन.
Amino acids हैं selected, collected and carried to the ribosome by transfer RNA ( tRNA molecules ), which डालें एक part of the राइबोसोम and bind to the messenger RNA chain.
the attached अमीनो acids हैं तब linked together by another part of the राइबोसोम.
Once the protein is उत्पादित, it can तब 'fold ' to produce a specific functional three-dimensional structure.
a ribosome is बना from complexes of RNAs and proteins और is therefore a ribonucleoprotein.
प्रत्येक राइबोसोम is विभाजित into दो subunits : the smaller subunit बांधता to the mRNA pattern, जबकि the larger subunit binds to the trna and the amino acids.
जब a ribosome finishes reading an mRNA molecule, these दो subunits विभाजित apart.
Ribosomes हैं ribozymes, because the catalytic peptidyl transferase activity कि कड़ी अमीनो acids together is performed by the ribosomal RNA.
Ribosomes from जीवाणु, archaea और eukaryotes ( the तीन डोमेन of life on Earth ) differ in उनके आकार, अनुक्रम, structure, और the ratio of protein to rna.
the मतभेद in structure allow कुछ antibiotics to kill bacteria by inhibiting their ribosomes, while leaving इंसान ribosomes unaffected.
In bacteria और archaea, more than एक ribosome may move साथ a सिंगल mRNA chain at एक time, प्रत्येक `` reading '' इसके sequence और producing a सम्बन्धित protein अणु.
the ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells functionally resemble अनेक features of those in जीवाणु, reflecting the likely विकासवादी उत्पत्ति of mitochondria.
अल्बर्ट Claude, ईसाई de Duve, and जार्ज एमिल Palade यहूद jointly awarded the Nobel Prize in physiology or Medicine, in 1974, for the discovery of the ribosomes.
The Nobel पुरस्कार in Chemistry 2009 थी awarded to Venkatraman रामकृष्णन, Thomas A. Steitz and एडीए E. Yonath for determining the detailed ढांचा and mechanism of the ribosome.
The simplified आतंरिक structure of a chloroplast
Overview of the Calvin cycle and कार्बन fixation
The light-independent प्रतिक्रियाएँ of photosynthesis are chemical reactions कि convert कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड और other compounds into ग्लूकोज.
These reactions occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled क्षेत्रफल of a chloroplast बाहर of the thylakoid membranes.
ये प्रतिक्रियाएँ take the light-dependent प्रतिक्रियाएँ and perform further रासायनिक processes on उन्हें.
There are तीन phases to the light-independent reactions, collectively called the calvin cycle : carbon fixation, कटौती reactions, and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration.
Despite its नाम, इस process occurs तभी when लाइट is available.
Plants do not carry out the Calvin cycle by रात्रि.
They, बजाय, रिलीज sucrose into the फ्लोएम from their starch reserves.
This process happens जब लाइट is available स्वतंत्र of the दयालु of photosynthesis ( c3 carbon fixation, c4 carbon fixation, और Crassulacean Acid Metabolism ) ; CAM plants स्टोर malic एसिड in उनके vacuoles प्रत्येक रात्रि और रिलीज it by day in order to make this process कार्य.
In mathematics, a वर्गाकार number or पूर्ण square is an integer that is the square of an integer ; in अन्य शब्द, it is the उत्पाद of some integer with itself.
लिये उदाहरण, 9 is a square क्रमांक, चूंकि it can be लिखा as.
the usual संकेतन for the सूत्र लिये the square of a number is not the उत्पाद, लकिन the equivalent exponentiation, प्रायः pronounced as `` squared ''.
The name square क्रमांक comes from the name of the shape ; see नीचे.
Square numbers are non-negative.
Another रास्ता of saying that a ( non-negative ) number is a वर्गाकार number, is कि its square roots are again integers.
For example, = ±3, so 9 is a square क्रमांक.
A positive integer कि रै no perfect वर्गाकार divisors मगर 1 is called square-free.
For a non-negative पूर्णांक, the th square number is, with being the zeroth वर्गाकार.
The concept of square can be विस्तारित to some other क्रमांक systems.
If rational numbers हैं included, then a वर्गाकार is the अनुपात of दो square integers, और, conversely, the अनुपात of दो वर्गाकार integers is a वर्गाकार ( e.g., 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ).
Starting साथ 1, there हैं square numbers up to and सहित, where the expression represents the floor of the number.
The Era of शुभ Feelings marked a period in the political history of the United States that reflected a sense of national purpose and a desire लिये unity among Americans in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars.
the era saw the collapse of the Federalist Party and an समाप्त to the bitter दलगत disputes between it और the dominant democratic-republican party दौरान the पहला Party प्रणाली.
President जेम्स Monroe endeavored to downplay partisan संबद्ध in making उसके nominations, with the ultimate goal of national एकता and eliminating पार्टियों altogether इससे national राजनीती.
The काल is so closely संबद्ध साथ Monroe 's presidency ( 1817–1825 ) और his administrative लक्ष्य कि उसके name and the era are वस्तुतः synonymous.
The era of शुभ जज्बात marked a transition in American politics साथ the समाप्त of the federalist Party as अमेरिका began to develop बाद the War of 1812.
जबकि अमेरिका was experiencing growth and समृद्धि after the war with ब्रिटेन, इस era भी marks the first उदाहरण of economic परेशानियों in the growing United States.
mirroring the American System proposed by Henry Clay, protective tariffs और the chartering of the Second Bank of the United राज्य जटिल the टेंशन between the North and दक्षिण साथ the coming of the first financial crisis.
जबकि the पद “Era of Good feelings” is usually viewed with विडंबना because of the राजनैतिक turmoil, economic factors caused animosity between the North और South.
The designation of the period by historians as one of “good feelings” is प्रायः conveyed with irony or skepticism, as the history of the era was one in जिससे the राजनैतिक माहौल was strained और divisive, especially among factions भीतर the मुनरो प्रशासन और the रिपब्लिकन Party.
the phrase “era of शुभ Feelings” was coined by Benjamin Russell, in the बोस्टन Federalist समाचारपत्र, columbian Centinel, on जुलाई 12, 1817, following मुनरो 's विज़िट to Boston, Massachusetts as part of his good होगा tour of अमेरिका.
mariel मार्गरेट `` Mia '' Hamm ( born March 17, 1972 ) is a retired अमरीकी पेशेवर soccer player.
hamm played many सालो as a forward for the संयुक्त राज्य महिलाओं 's नेशनल soccer team and was a founding सदस्य of the Washington स्वतंत्रता.
hamm scored 158 international लक्ष्य, अधिक than any other खिलाड़ी, male or मादा, in the history of सॉकर और is the तीसरा most capped female खिलाड़ी in soccer इतिहास behind Kristine लिली और क्रिस्टी rampone, appearing in 275 international matches.
hamm was नामित the women 's FIFA संसार Player of the साल the first two टाइम्स कि पुरस्कार was दिए ( in 2001 and 2002 ), और is listed as एक of FIFA 's 125 बेहतरीन living खिलाड़ी ( as चुनी by Pelé ).
She was inducted into the National Soccer हॉल of कीर्ति as खूब as the अलबामा Sports Hall of Fame and Texas खेल Hall of Fame.
वो is the author of Go For the लक्ष्य : a Champion 's मार्गदर्शिका to जीतना in Soccer and जीवन और appeared in the HBO documentary हिम्मत to सपना : The Story of the u.S. Women 's सॉकर Team.
Washington Post columnist माइकल wilbon called Hamm, `` Perhaps the most महत्वपूर्ण athlete of the last 15 years. ''
Hamm takes a corner लात.
The New यॉर्क Red Bulls is an American पेशेवर soccer टोली based in Harrison, New Jersey, representing the नई यॉर्क metropolitan क्षेत्रफल.
The team competes in the पूर्वी सम्मेलन of प्रमुख League Soccer ( mls ).
It is one of the टेन चार्टर क्लब of MLS, having competed in the league since इसके inception.
The team was a founding member of MLS ( 1996 ), but रै gone through अनेक नाम changes.
the टोली was originally known as the नई York/New जर्सी MetroStars through 1997.
From the 1998 season through the 2005 ऋतु, the team was known as the MetroStars.
on March 9, 2006, the टोली was sold to रेड Bull GmbH, अग्रणी to the team 's वर्तमान name.
वे are the तभी original mls मताधिकार not to have won any significant trophy ( including नियमित season, playoffs, and knockout competition ) चूंकि inception.
the team 's बेहतरीन result in the MLS was the mls कप फाइनल in 2008.
In the US खोलें Cup, the MetroStars पहुँचे three semifinals ( 1997, 1998, 2000 ), पहले reaching their first final in 2003, losing 1–0 to the Chicago आग.
On August 26, 2000, the metros ' क्लिंट mathis नियत an MLS record by scoring five लक्ष्य in a game against the डलास बर्न.
कुछ well-known players कि have played for the team शामिल giovanni Savarese, Tim Howard, टोनी meola, Tab Ramos, Alexi lalas, Clint Mathis, Jozy Altidore, माइकल Bradley, Claudio reyna, एडी Pope, रॉबर्टो Donadoni, Lothar matthäus, Adolfo वालेंसिया, youri Djorkaeff, amado ग्वेरा, Juan Pablo Ángel, Thierry Henry, Juninho Pernambucano, Jan गुन्नार solli, राफेल Márquez, और टिम Cahill.
the टोली रै also था well-known coaches, including Carlos Queiroz, Carlos Alberto Parreira, Bora Milutinović, Bob Bradley, Mo johnston, Bruce एरिना and Hans backe.
confucianism, taoism, और Buddhism are one, a पेंटिंग in the litang style portraying तीन men laughing by a नदी स्ट्रीम, 12th सदी, Song राजवंश.
estimating the क्रमांक of बौद्धों in the world, or in many देशों, is difficult due to definitional मुद्दे as खूब as practical समस्याएं of enumeration.
to begin with, the religious beliefs, practices, और पहचान of East Asians ( जो comprise the बहुमत of the संसार 's Buddhists by any measure ) often मिश्रण buddhism with other परंपराओं including Confucianism, the चाइनीज लोक धर्म, Daoism, shinto, and Korean shamanism.
Most followers of Buddhism do not belong to structured congregations, or observe a definite ritual of adherence ऐसे as taking शरण, बनाना it difficult to accurately estimate the क्रमांक of practitioners.
an additional challenge is the hostility of several national governments ( often कम्युनिस्ट ones such as China or North Korea ) to धर्म generally or to buddhism specifically.
सरकारी नीतियों in these देशों may प्रोत्साहित the under-reporting or non-reporting of religious adherence, resulting in official योग that may drastically underestimate the number of धार्मिक practitioners in these countries.
Estimate of the worldwide बौद्ध population दायरा इससे 350 लाख to over one अरब, but cluster nearer to the first फिगर.
Adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a figure of 397 million.
By major शाखाओं, the numbers हैं as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana buddhism, सहित ईस्ट Asian buddhism, with no fewer than 185 million adherents, and संभवतः अनेक टाइम्स that many ( again, depending on definitional मुद्दे ).
This is the predominant form of buddhism practiced in China, South Korea, जापानी, Taiwan, सिंगापुर, and Vietnam.
( 2 ) Theravada Buddhism, with no कम than 125 लाख adherents.
इस is the predominant रूप of buddhism practiced in कंबोडिया, Thailand, लाओस, Sri Lanka, and Burma.
( 3 ) Vajrayana Buddhism, with approximately 20 million adherents.
This रूप predominates in the greater Tibetan and मंगोलियाई regions, as well as in the Himalayas.
besides the independent countries of मंगोल and भूटान, और विभिन्न territories within कया is now western China, वज्रयान is traditional to certain regions of रूस ( e.g. Kalmykia, बुर्यातिया ), इण्डिया ( e.g. लद्दाख, Sikkim ), और Nepal ( e.g. Khumbu ).
वज्रयान, भी known as Tibetan Buddhism, is often conflated with Tantric buddhism, but this is imprecise, as Shingon and other फ़ॉर्म of ईस्ट एशियाई Buddhism भी अभ्यास तन्त्र.
at least 7 countries ( Sri Lanka, थाईलैंड, Cambodia, Laos, Burma, Bhutan, and Mongolia ) have unambiguous बौद्ध majorities.
Depending on how एक calculates Chinese and अन्य East Asian adherents, इस फिगर might expand to शामिल several अधिक countries.
In addition, Buddhism is the state religion of Cambodia and भूटान, and receives prominent mention in the constitutions of थाईलैंड and श्री लंका.
in northern इण्डिया and Nepal, the land where buddhism थी born, the religion severely अस्वीकृत दौरान the first millennium.
Whether this decline was due to the इस्लामी conquest of northern India, or to अन्य कारकों, remains controversial.
See the article Decline of buddhism in India.
James बटलर Hickok ( May 27, 1837 – August 2, 1876 ), better known as Wild Bill hickok, थी a folk नायिका of the अमरीकी Old वेस्ट.
उसके कौशल as a gunfighter and scout, along with उसके प्रतिष्ठा as a lawman, provided the आधार लिये उसके fame, हालांकि some of his reported exploits are fictionalized.
born and raised on a farm in ग्रामीण Illinois, hickok गई west at आयु 18 as a भगोड़े from इंसाफ, पहला working as a stagecoach driver, पहले he became a lawman in the frontier territories of Kansas और नेब्रास्का.
He fought for the Union फौज दौरान the American Civil War, और gained publicity बाद the युद्ध as a scout, marksman, कर्ता, और professional gambler.
between his law-enforcement कर्तव्य and जुए, which easily overlapped, hickok was involved in several notable shootouts.
he थी shot और killed जबकि playing poker in the nuttal & Mann 's Saloon in deadwood, Dakota Territory ( अभी South Dakota ).
कलाकार 's conception of the Curiosity रोवर vaporizing rock on मंगल.
the रोवर landed on मंगल in अगस्त 2012.
A Mars rover is an automated motor vehicle जिससे propels itself across the सतह of the planet मंगल बाद landing.
Rovers have अनेक लाभ over stationary landers : वे examine अधिक territory, they can be directed to interesting सुविधाएँ, वे can place themselves in sunny positions to weather winter months और they can advance the ज्ञान of how to perform very remote robotic vehicle control.
There have been four successful robotically संचालित मंगल रोवर्स.
The Jet नोदन Laboratory managed the मंगल Pathfinder mission और its now inactive Sojourner rover.
it फिलहाल manages the Mars Exploration Rover mission 's active अवसर rover and inactive स्पिरिट, और, as part of the मंगल Science Laboratory मिशन, the Curiosity rover.
a financial ऑडिट, or more accurately, an ऑडिट of वित्तीय statements, is the सत्यापन of the financial statements of a legal एंटिटी, with a view to एक्स्प्रेस an ऑडिट opinion.
The audit राय is intended to provide reasonable assurance, but नहीं निरपेक्ष assurance, कि the financial statements हैं presented fairly, in all material respects, and/or give a सच्चा and मेला view in accordance with the financial रिपोर्टिंग फ्रेमवर्क.
the purpose of an audit is provide और objective independent परिक्षा of the वित्तीय statements, which increases the value और विश्वसनीयता of the financial कथन produced by management, यूँ increase user विश्वास in the वित्तीय statement, reduce investor रिस्क और consequently reduce the लागत of पूंजी of the preparer of the financial कथन.
वित्तीय audits are typically performed by firms of practicing accountants who हैं विशेषज्ञ in वित्तीय reporting.
The वित्तीय ऑडिट is एक of अनेक परख functions provided by accounting firms.
Many organizations separately employ or hire internal auditors, who do not attest to financial reports but focus mainly on the आतंरिक controls of the organization.
External auditors may choose to place limited reliance on the work of internal auditors.
auditing promotes transparency and accuracy in the financial disclosures बना by an संगठन, therefore would संभावित to reduce of ऐसे corporations to छिपाते unscrupulous dealings.
Internationally, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मानकों on Auditing ( ISA ) issued by the International Auditing and परख Standards फलक ( iaasb ) is considered as the बेंचमार्क लिये audit process.
लगभग all jurisdictions require auditors to follow the ISA or a लोकल variation of the ISA.
डालर सिक्के have been minted in the United States in gold, चांदी, और base metal versions.
the पद silver dollar is प्रायः used लिये कोई विशाल white मेटल सिक्का जारी by the United राज्य साथ a फेस value of एक dollar, हालांकि purists insist that a dollar is not silver जबतक it contains कुछ of that मेटल.
चांदी dollars, the पहला dollar सिक्का issue, were minted beginning in 1794.
Gold डॉलर और gold-colored dollars have also महरूम produced by the संयुक्त राज्य.
the sacagawea and Presidential डॉलर are प्रायः referred to as `` golden dollars ''.
In modern times, डालर coins have not महरूम बहुत popular in the संयुक्त States.
despite प्रयत्न by the government to promote their उपयोग, most Americans currently उपयोग the एक dollar bill rather than dollar coins.
in सीधा and स्तर उड़ान lift ( L ) equals weight ( W ).
In a banked फेरे of 60°, lift बराबरी double the weight ( L=2W ).
The पायलट experiences 2g and a doubled weight.
the steeper the bank, the greater the g-forces.
इस top-fuel dragster can accelerate इससे शून्य to in 0.86 सेकेंड.
This is a horizontal acceleration of 5.3 g. संयुक्त with the vertical g-force in the stationary case the Pythagorean प्रमेय yields a g फ़ोर्स of 5.4 g.
g-force ( with g from गुरुत्वाकर्षक ) is a term लिये accelerations felt as weight and measurable by accelerometers.
It is not a फ़ोर्स, प्रति se, but a force per unit mass.
Since such a force is perceived as a weight, कोई g-force can be वर्णित as a `` वज़न प्रति unit द्रव्यमान '' ( see the synonym विशिष्ट weight ).
The g-force acceleration acts as a multiplier of weight-like forces for every unit of an object 's mass, and ( सहेजें for certain electromagnetic force प्रभाव ) is the cause of an ऑब्जेक्ट 's त्वरण in संबंध to free-fall.
This acceleration experienced by an ऑब्जेक्ट is due to the वेक्टर योग of non-gravitational forces एक्टिंग on an object free to मूव.
the accelerations that हैं not produced by गम्भीरता हैं termed proper accelerations, and it is तभी ये कि are measured in g-force units.
वे cause stresses और strains on objects.
क्युकी of these strains, large g-forces may be destructive.
Gravitation acting अलोन does not produce a g-force, even हालांकि g-forces are expressed in multiples of the acceleration of a मानक gravity.
Thus, the मानक gravitational acceleration at the Earth 's surface produces g-force तभी indirectly, as a परिणाम of resistance to it by mechanical forces.
The 1 g-force on an object sitting on the Earth 's सतह is caused by mechanical force exerted in the upward दिशा by the ground, keeping the object इससे going into free-fall.
The upward force इससे the मैदान ensures that an object at rest on the Earth 's सतह is accelerating relative to the free-fall condition, which is the पाथ that the object would follow when गिरना freely toward the Earth 's center.
Objects अनुमत to free-fall in an inertial trajectory अंतर्गत the influence of gravitation-only, feel no g-force.
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' शर्तें inside a freely falling elevator falling toward the Earth 's बीच ( in वैक्यूम ), or ( to good approximation ) conditions अंदर a spacecraft in Earth orbit.
ये हैं उदाहरण of coordinate त्वरण ( a बदलें in velocity ) without a सनसनी of वज़न.
The experience of no g-force ( zero-g ), however it is produced, is synonymous with weightlessness.
in the अनुपस्थिति of gravitational फ़ील्ड, or in दिशानिर्देश at right angles to them, proper and निर्देशांक accelerations हैं the वही, और any coordinate त्वरण जरूर be उत्पादित by a corresponding g-force acceleration.
an example here is a rocket in free स्पेस, in जिससे simple changes in गति are उत्पादित by the engines, and produce g-forces on the rocket and passengers.
An augur पकड़कर a lituus, the curved wand often used as a symbol of augury on Roman coins
The augur was a पुजारी और आधिकारिक in the classical world, विशेषकर प्राचीन रोम और etruria.
His प्रमुख role थी to interpret the will of the gods by अध्ययन the flight of birds : whether they हैं flying in groups or अलोन, what noises they मेक as वे fly, direction of उड़ान and what kind of पक्षियों वे हैं.
इस was known as `` taking the auspices. ''
the रस्म और function of the augur was central to any प्रमुख undertaking in Roman society—public or private—including matters of युद्ध, कॉमर्स, and religion.
The Roman historian Livy stresses the महत्व of the augurs : `` जो करता नहीं know that इस city थी founded तभी after लेने the auspices, that सबकुछ in war and in सलाम, at घर and abroad, was done तभी after लेने the auspices ? ''
Farmington Hills is an affluent जातियाँ in southeastern Michigan.
It is the second largest city in ओकलैंड County in the u.S. state of Michigan.
Its population was 79,740 at the 2010 census.
It is part of the upscale northwestern suburbs of Metropolitan डेट्रॉयट and is also northeast of downtown Ann arbor.
Farmington Hills consistently ranks as one of the safest शहरों in the संयुक्त States, as खूब as in the state of मिशिगन.
In 2010, the area क्रमित as the 30th safest city in America.
Although the two शहरों have पृथक सेवाएं and addresses, Farmington and Farmington Hills हैं प्रायः thought of as the वही community.
Features of the community include a recently संवर downtown, boutiques, a vintage cinema, numerous रेस्तरां, exotic car dealerships, आर्ट galleries, and public पार्क including Heritage Park.
There are several ऐतिहासिक साइट including the Longacre House और the राज्यपाल Warner mansion.
Both शहरों हैं served by farmington पब्लिक Schools.
Farmington पहाड़ियाँ serves as a major कारोबार center लिये the वृहद Detroit area.
present-day impression of a Late कांस्य Age seal
Town मुहर ( matrix ) of náchod इससे 1570
a मुहर is a device for making an छाप in मोम, clay, paper, or some other medium, including an embossment on paper, and is also the impression thus बना.
The original purpose थी to authenticate a दस्तावेज़, a wrapper for one such as a आधुनिक लिफाफा, or the cover of a container or package पकड़कर valuables or अन्य objects.
the sealing process is essentially that of a सांचे, with the फाइनल चित्र represented on the यंत्र for making the छाप by a mirror-image design, incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio.
The seal-making device is also referred to as the मुहर matrix or die ; the imprint it creates as the seal impression ( or, अधिक rarely, the sealing ).
If the impression is made purely as a relief resulting from the वृहद दबाव on the पेपर where the ऊँची parts of the matrix touch, the मुहर is known as a शुष्क seal ; in सब अन्य cases a द्रव or liquified मीडियम ( such as ink or मोम ) is प्रयुक्त, usually in another color than the पेपर.
लिये विधिक purposes, the definition of a मुहर may be extended to शामिल rubber stamps, or writing specified words ( `` seal '' or `` l.s. `` ).
in the United States, the शब्द `` seal '' is sometimes आबंटित to a facsimile of the मुहर design ( in मोनोक्रोम or रंग ), which may be प्रयुक्त in a variety of contexts सहित architectural जमावट, on ध्वज, or on आधिकारिक letterheads.
यूँ, for example, the ग्रेट मुहर of the संयुक्त States, among अन्य uses, appears on the रिवर्स of the one-dollar bill ; and several of the seals of the u.S. राज्य appear on उनके respective state flags.
In यूरोपीय, although coats of arms and heraldic बैज may well विशेषता in such contexts as well as on seals, the seal डिज़ाइन in इसके entirety rarely appears as an emblem.
The पढ़ाई of seals is known as sigillography or sphragistics.
Groundhog Day ( Pennsylvania जर्मनी : Grundsaudaag, Murmeltiertag ) is a day celebrated on February 2.
According to folklore, if it is cloudy जब a groundhog emerges इससे its burrow on इस day, then spring होगा come early ; if it is sunny, the groundhog होगा supposedly see its shadow and retreat back into its burrow, और the winter मौसम will continue for छह more weeks.
Modern customs of the अवकाश involve celebrations where early morning festivals हैं held to watch the groundhog emerging from इसके burrow.
In southeastern पेन्सिलवेनिया, groundhog lodges ( grundsow lodges ) celebrate the holiday with fersommlinge, social events in जिससे खाना is served, speeches are made, and one or अधिक g'spiel ( plays or skits ) are performed for entertainment.
The Pennsylvania German dialect is the तभी language बोला at the इवेंट, and those जो बोलो English pay a दंड, प्रायः in the रूप of a nickel, dime, or क्वार्टर per शब्द बोला, साथ the money put into a bowl in the center of the table.
the largest Groundhog Day celebration is held in Punxsutawney, पेन्सिलवेनिया.
Groundhog दिन, already a widely पहचाना and popular tradition, प्राप्त widespread attention as a result of the 1993 film Groundhog Day, which was नियत in punxsutawney, PA ( हालांकि filmed primarily in वुडस्टॉक, IL ) और portrayed Punxsutawney फिल.
ऊँची resolution image of tampa खाड़ी प्रदेश
the Tampa खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल has a humid subtropical जलवायु ( Koppen cfa ), with warm and humid summers साथ frequent thunderstorms and drier winters साथ जमने temperatures occurring प्रत्येक 2–3 सालो.
The क्षेत्रफल experiences a significant गर्मियाँ wet ऋतु, as nearly two-thirds of the annual वर्षण falls in the months of जून through September.
The area is listed by the United राज्य विभाग of Agriculture ( USDA ) as होने in hardiness मण्डल 10, जिससे is परिचय the उत्तरी सीमा of where coconut palms and royal palms can be grown.
Highs usually range between 65 and 95 °F ( 18 और 35 °C ) year round.
हालांकि known लिये hot summers, Tampa 's official ऊँची रै never reached 100 °F ( 38 °C ) – the नगर 's all-time record तापमान is 99 °f ( 37 °c ).
St. Petersburg 's all-time रिकार्ड high is exactly 100 °f ( 38 °C ).
Pinellas County lies on a peninsula between Tampa खाड़ी and the गल्फ of Mexico, और much of the city of Tampa झूठ on a छोटी प्रायद्वीप jutting आउट into tampa Bay.
This proximity to विशाल bodies of जल both नरमपंथियों temperatures and introduces large amounts of humidity into the atmosphere.
In सामान्य, the local communities farthest इससे the coast have larger temperature ranges, दोनो दौरान a सिंगल दिन और throughout the seasons of the साल.
A diagram of the electromagnetic वर्णक्रम, showing विभिन्न गुण आरपार the दायरा of frequencies and wavelengths
The इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम is the range of all संभावित बारंबारता of electromagnetic radiation.
the `` इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक spectrum '' of an object रै a different meaning, और is instead the characteristic वितरण of electromagnetic radiation उत्सर्जित or absorbed by that particular object.
The इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक spectrum extends इससे below the low बारंबारता used for modern radio संचार to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end, thereby covering wavelengths इससे हज़ारों of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom.
the limit for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself, while it is विचार that the short wavelength सीमा is in the vicinity of the Planck length, although in principle the वर्णक्रम is infinite and continuous.
सबसे parts of the electromagnetic वर्णक्रम are used in science for spectroscopic और other probing interactions, as तरीके to पढ़ाई और characterize पदार्थ.
in addition, विकिरण इससे various भाग of the spectrum has मिला many अन्य uses लिये communications and manufacturing ( see electromagnetic radiation for अधिक applications ).
Legend
Franklin Delano रूज़वेल्ट ( or ; January 30, 1882 – April 12, 1945 ), also known by his आद्याक्षर, FDR, was the 32nd अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य ( 1933–1945 ) और a central figure in world कार्यक्रम दौरान the mid-20th century, अग्रणी the United States during a time of worldwide economic अवसाद और total war.
A प्रबल leader of the लोकतांत्रिक Party और the only American president elected to अधिक than two terms, he built a नई Deal Coalition कि realigned अमरीकी politics after 1932, as his domestic नीतियों पारिभाषित American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century.
With the bouncy लोकप्रिय song `` Happy दिनों हैं यहाँ Again `` as his अभियान theme, FDR पराजित incumbent Republican हर्बर्ट हूवर in नवम्बर 1932, at the depth of the Great अवसाद.
Energized by his personal victory over पोलियो, FDR 's unfailing आशावाद and activism contributed to a renewal of the national स्पिरिट.
He worked closely with अंग्रेजों Prime मंत्री विंस्टन Churchill and Soviet General सचिव Joseph स्टालिन in अग्रणी the allies against जर्मनी और जापानी in संसार War ii, and restoring समृद्धि to the स्वदेश 's अर्थव्यवस्था.
In his first hundred days in office, which began March 4, 1933, रूज़वेल्ट spearheaded major legislation और issued a profusion of कार्यपालिका आदेश कि instituted the New सौदे —a किस्में of programs designed to उपज relief ( government कार्य for the unemployed ), recovery ( economic growth ), and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street, बैंको and transportation ).
the economy improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937, but तब relapsed into a deep recession.
the bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his पैकिंग the Supreme Court or गुजर any considerable विधान ; it abolished many of the राहत programs when बेरोजगारी diminished during World युद्ध ii.
Most of the regulations on business यहूद ended about 1975–85, except for the regulation of वॉल Street by the प्रतिभूति and Exchange Commission, which स्टिल exists.
Along with अनेक छोटी कार्यक्रम, major surviving programs शामिल the संघीय जमा बीमे Corporation, which थी निर्मित in 1933, and Social सुरक्षा, which Congress passed in 1935.
As संसार War ii loomed after 1938, with the जापानी आक्रमण of चीन और the aggression of Nazi Germany, FDR gave दमदार diplomatic और वित्तीय support to China और Great ब्रिटेन, while remaining officially न्यूट्रल.
उसके goal थी to make America the `` Arsenal of Democracy `` जिससे होता supply munitions to the Allies.
In March 1941, Roosevelt, with congressional approval, provided lend-lease aid to the देशों fighting against नाजी जर्मनी with ब्रिटेन.
साथ very दमदार नेशनल support, he made युद्ध on जापानी और Germany बाद the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on दिसम्बर 7, 1941, calling it a `` date which होगा सजीव in infamy ``.
he supervised the mobilization of the u.S. economy to support the अलाइड war effort.
as an active military leader, Roosevelt implemented an overall war रणनीति on दो fronts that ended in the शिकस्त of the Axis शक्तियां and the development of the world 's पहला atom bomb.
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 जापानी अमरीकी नागरिकों.
बेरोजगारी dropped to 2 %, relief programs largely ended, और the industrial अर्थव्यवस्था grew rapidly to new हाइट्स as लाखो of people moved to new jobs in युद्ध centers, और 16 लाख men और 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for सैन्य service.
Roosevelt dominated the अमरीकी राजनैतिक scene नहीं only during the बारह years of his presidency, लकिन भी for decades afterward.
He orchestrated the realignment of मतदाता that निर्मित the पांचवां Party प्रणाली.
FDR 's नई Deal Coalition संयुक्त मजदूर unions, बिग city मशीने, श्वेत ethnics, अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी and rural श्वेत southerners.
He also बहकावे the later creation of the संयुक्त Nations and bretton Woods.
Roosevelt is consistently rated by विद्वानों as एक of the शीर्ष तीन U.S. Presidents, along साथ Abraham Lincoln and जार्ज वॉशिंगटन.
A liberal डेमोक्रेट, Roosevelt पारिभाषित his ideological position as `` a little left of बीच. ''
a संयुक्त Committee is a term in politics that is used to refer to a कमेटी made up of members of दोनो कक्षों of a bicameral विधानमंडल.
in अन्य contexts, it refers to a committee with सदस्यों इससे more than one organization.
the विनियमन of prostitution in the संयुक्त States is not among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; Under the दसवाँ Amendment to the United States संविधान, it is इसलिए exclusively the domain of the राज्य to permit, prohibit, or वरना regulate वाणिज्यिक sex, except insofar as कॉंग्रेस may regulate it as भाग of interstate commerce साथ laws जैसे the Mann Act.
in most states, prostitution is माना a misdemeanor in the श्रेणी of पब्लिक अनुक्रम crime, a अपराधों कि disrupts the order of a community.
It थी at one time considered to be a vagrancy crime.
Currently, नेवाडा is the तभी state to allow वेश्यालय prostitution, the terms of जिससे are stipulated in the नेवाडा Revised Statutes.
तभी 8 काउंटी फिलहाल contain क्रियाशील brothels.
All forms of prostitution are illegal in क्लार्क काउंटी ( which contains the लास vegas–paradise metropolitan area ), Washoe County ( जिससे contains Reno ), कार्सन City, Douglas County, and lincoln County.
the other counties theoretically allow brothel prostitution, but some of ये काउंटी फिलहाल have no active brothels.
गली वेश्यावृति, `` pandering, '' and living बंद of the proceeds of a prostitute remain illegal under Nevada विधि, as elsewhere in the देश.
As साथ other देशों, वेश्यावृति in the United राज्य can be विभाजित into three व्यापक categories : गली prostitution, brothel वेश्यावृति, और अनुरक्षण prostitution.
The national flag of the United States of America, often बस referred to as the American flag, consists of thirteen बराबर आड़ा धारियाँ of red ( top and नीचे ) alternating साथ white, with a blue rectangle in the कैण्टन ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty small, white, five-pointed stars arranged in नौ offset आड़ा पंक्ति of छह stars ( top and bottom ) प्रत्यावर्ती with पंक्ति of five सितारों.
the 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 राज्य of the United States of अमेरिका और the 13 stripes represent the तेरह British colonies that घोषित स्वतंत्रता from the किंगडम of ग्रेट Britain and became the first states in the Union.
nicknames for the flag include the `` Stars and Stripes '', `` Old Glory ``, और `` The Star-Spangled Banner. ''
India is a संघीय union of राज्य comprising twenty-eight states and seven संघ territories.
the states और territories are further subdivided into districts and so on.
Congressional जिले लिये the 113th संयुक्त States Congress
2010 जनसांख्यिकी change:
बदलें in apportionment of congressional districts, starting in 2013, as a result of the 2010 census.
2000 Census change:
Change in apportionment of congressional districts, from 2003 to 2013, as a result of the 2000 census.
This is a पूरा list of congressional districts लिये representation in the United राज्य हाउस of Representatives.
The मात्रा ( apportionment ) and boundaries ( redistricting ) of districts are determined after प्रत्येक census, although in some मामले राज्य have changed the boundaries अधिक than once per census.
इस list शामिल the 435 current and over 200 obsolete districts.
लिये example, चूंकि the 2000 census, नेब्रास्का रै had तीन districts, but it used to have as many as six.
in the पहला दशक of the twenty-first सदी, Texas had 32 जिले, लकिन रै since added चार due to reapportionment as a परिणाम of the 2010 census.
Other राज्य have खोया districts since the number of congressional seats रै been नियत at 435 by statute.
Also included here हैं non-voting delegations : छह वर्तमान और four obsolete.
The सीमाएँ of जिले often shift साथ प्रत्येक redistricting.
Over time, the प्रदेश and जनसांख्यिकी represented in a district can change substantially.
furthermore, districts sometimes retain the same boundaries जबकि बदलना उनके ज़िला numbers.
Mariah Carey ( born March 27, 1970 ) is an अमरीकी singer, songwriter, record निर्माता, अभिनेत्री, and philanthropist.
Under the मार्गदर्शन of Columbia रिकॉर्ड कार्यपालिका Tommy Mottola, Carey released her self-titled डेब्यू स्टुडियो एल्बम mariah Carey in 1990 ; it गई multi-platinum and शाखित चार लगातार क्रमांक one singles on the u.s. Billboard hot 100 चार्ट.
following her विवाह to Mottola in 1993 and success with hit records भाव ( 1991 ), म्यूज़िक बक्सा ( 1993 ), और Merry Christmas ( 1994 ), Carey थी स्थापित as Columbia 's highest-selling act.
Daydream ( 1995 ) बना music history when its second single `` One मीठी Day ``, a duet साथ Boyz II Men, spent a रिकार्ड sixteen weeks on top of the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100, और remains the longest-running number-one सोंग in u.S. चार्ट इतिहास.
During the recording of the album, Carey began to deviate इससे उसके R & B and pop beginnings and धीरे traversed into हिप हॉप.
इस musical बदलें became evident साथ the release of Butterfly ( 1997 ), at which time Carey था separated from mottola.
Carey left कोलंबिया in 2000, और हस्ताक्षरित a record-breaking $ 100 million रिकॉर्डिंग contract with Virgin Records.
Before the release of her first feature फिल्मी Glitter ( 2001 ), she suffered a शारीरिक and emotional विश्लेषण और थी hospitalized लिये कठोर थकावट.
Following the फिल्मी 's ग़रीब reception, she was bought out of उसके recording contract for $ 50 million, which led to a decline in उसके career.
She signed a multi-million dollar contract सौदे with Island रिकॉर्ड in 2002, और बाद an unsuccessful काल, returned to the शीर्ष of music charts साथ The emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ).
इसके दूसरी सिंगल `` We belong Together `` became her most successful single of the 2000s, and was later नामित `` Song of the दशक '' by बिलबोर्ड.
कैरी once again ventured into film with a well-received starring भूमिका in ( 2009 ) ; वो थी awarded the `` भेदन Performance Award '' at the ताड़ Springs International Film पर्व, and Black Reel और NAACP चित्र Award nominations.
In a career spanning over two decades, Carey रै sold more than 200 लाख रिकॉर्ड worldwide, बनाना her one of the best-selling music artists of all time.
In 1998, she थी सम्मानित as the संसार 's best-selling रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार of the 1990s at the World म्यूज़िक Awards.
कैरी was also नामित the best-selling female artist of the मिलेनियम in 2000.
according to the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग Association of अमेरिका, she is the तीसरा best-selling female कलाकार in the United राज्य, with 63.5 million certified albums.
साथ the रिलीज of `` Touch my Body `` ( 2008 ), Carey gained उसके eighteenth क्रमांक one सिंगल in the संयुक्त राज्य, अधिक than any other solo कलाकार.
In 2012, Carey was क्रमित second on VH1 's list of the `` 100 Greatest महिलाओं in Music ''.
Aside इससे her वाणिज्यिक accomplishments, कैरी has won five ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, 17 World Music Awards, 11 American Music Awards, and 31 Billboard Music Awards.
referred to as the `` songbird supreme '' by the Guinness World रिकॉर्ड, she is famed लिये her five-octave vocal range, शक्ति, melismatic स्टाइल and हस्ताक्षर उपयोग of the whistle register.
stratocumulus stratiformis cumulogenitus
in meteorology, a cloud is a visible mass of द्रव droplets or frozen crystals made of water or various chemicals निलंबित in the atmosphere above the surface of a planetary body.
ये निलंबित अणु are also known as aerosols.
Clouds in धरती 's माहौल are studied in the cloud भौतिकी शाखा of meteorology.
दो processes, possibly acting साथ, can lead to air बनने संतृप्त ; कूलिंग the एयर or adding जल vapor to the एयर.
In सामान्य, वर्षण will fall to the surface ; an एक्सेप्शन is virga, which evaporates पहले reaching the सतह.
the international cloud वर्गीकरण system is आधारित on the फैक्ट clouds in उनके most basic फ़ॉर्म can दिखाएँ free-convective upward विकास जैसे cumulus, appear in non-convective परतदार sheets such as स्ट्रेट्स, or लो the form of पतला तंतुमय wisps, as in the मामला of पक्षाभ.
prefixes are used in connection with बादल to एक्स्प्रेस variations or complexities in ये basic forms or to specify मध्य or ऊँची altitude ranges.
These include strato- लिये low clouds with limited convection कि रूप mostly in uneven परतों, cumulo- for जटिल highly-convective तूफ़ान बादल, nimbo- लिये मोटा परतदार clouds of कुछ complexity that can उपज moderate to heavy वर्षण, alto- लिये middle बादल, और cirro- for ऊँची clouds ; the latter दो of जिससे may be of सरल or मध्यम जटिल ढांचा.
whether or not a cloud is low, मध्य, or ऊँची स्तर depends on how far above the ground its आधार forms.
Cloud प्रकार साथ significant लंबवत extent can form in the कम or middle ऊँचाई ranges depending on the moisture content of the एयर.
Clouds in the क्षोभमण्डल have Latin names due to the popular adaptation of ल्यूक Howard 's cloud categorization system, जिससे began to spread in popularity दौरान दिसम्बर 1802.
Synoptic surface weather observations use code numbers to record and report the types of tropospheric बादल visible at प्रत्येक scheduled observation समय आधारित on the ऊँचाई and शारीरिक रूप of the बादल.
While a बहुमत of clouds रूप in धरती 's troposphere, वहीँ are occasions when बादल in the stratosphere and mesosphere can be observed.
These three main परतों of the atmosphere where clouds may be seen are collectively ज्ञात as the homosphere.
Above this lies the thermosphere और exosphere, which together make up the heterosphere that marks the transition to बाहरी space.
बादल have been observed on अन्य planets और moons भीतर the Solar प्रणाली, but, due to their different temperature characteristics, वे are रचित of अन्य substances ऐसे as मिथेन, ammonia, and sulfuric acid.
Galveston County is a county स्तिथ in the u.S. state of टेक्सास within the Houston–Sugar land–baytown महानगर area.
As of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, the population थी 291,309.
Its county सीट is Galveston.
League नगर is the largest नगर in Galveston काउंटी in terms of जनसांख्यिकी ; URL_http between 2000 and 2005 it surpassed galveston as the county 's largest नगर.
galveston County थी founded in 1838.
Nassau
Freeport, बहामा
इस is a सूची of cities in the Bahamas.
The following table lists the नगर or town नाम, the geographic coordinates, the जनसांख्यिकी as of the 1990 जनसांख्यिकी, an अनुमान of the population as of 2009, और the द्वीप name.
The बिग Ten सम्मेलन, formerly Western सम्मेलन और Big Nine Conference, is the oldest Division I college athletic सम्मेलन in the United States.
इसके बारह member institutions ( जिससे are primarily फ्लैगशिप research universities in उनके संबंधित states, well-regarded academically, और with अपेक्षाकृत large student नामांकन ) हैं स्तिथ primarily in the Midwest, stretching from नेब्रास्का in the वेस्ट to Penn राज्य in the east.
the सम्मेलन competes in the ncaa 's Division I ; इसके फ़ुटबॉल टीमों compete in the Football कटोरी Subdivision ( FBS ), formerly ज्ञात as Division I-A, the highest level of ncaa competition in that sport.
Member स्कूलों of the Big टेन ( or, in दो cases, their parent विश्वविद्यालयों systems ) also हैं members of the Committee on संस्थागत सहयोग, a leading educational and research consortium.
Despite the सम्मेलन 's name, the बिग Ten actually consists of 12 स्कूलों, following the जोड of The Pennsylvania State University in 1993 और the University of Nebraska–Lincoln in 2011.
In 2014, the conference will expand to 14 members साथ the additions of the विश्वविद्यालयों of Maryland, College Park और Rutgers, The राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों of नई Jersey.
It is not to be confused साथ the Big 12 Conference, जिससे has only टेन स्कूलों और represents a different प्रदेश of the देश.
Single Malt Scotch is single malt whisky made in Scotland using a घट still distillation प्रक्रम at a single डिस्टिलरी, with malted जौ as the only grain ingredient.
As साथ कोई Scotch whisky, a single malt Scotch must be distilled in स्कॉटलैंड और matured in ओक casks in Scotland for at तनिक three सालो ( सबसे सिंगल malts हैं matured longer ).
`` malt '' indicates कि the whisky is distilled इससे a `` malted '' grain.
Several types of दाने can be malted ( लिये उदाहरण, barley, rye and wheat are all grains which can be malted ) ; however, in the case of single malt स्कॉच, barley is सदा the only grain प्रयुक्त.
`` सिंगल '' indicates that all the malts in the बोतल आइये from a सिंगल डिस्टिलरी.
bottlings containing malt whisky from multiple distilleries are called `` blended malt ``.
Until the Scotch Whisky Regulations 2009 ( SWR 2009 ), the word `` blended '' तभी appeared ( in the context of स्कॉच whisky ) on बोतलों of whisky कि contained a मिश्रण of both barley और non-barley grain whisky, लकिन this is no longer the case.
Under the शब्दावली established by the swr 2009, a `` blended malt स्कॉच whisky '' is a मिश्रण of सिंगल malt स्कॉच whiskies, not a mixture of malted जौ व्हिस्की and non-barley व्हिस्की ; those हैं called `` blended Scotch whisky '', without the शब्द `` malt ''.
the term `` blended malt '' replaced `` vatted malt '' used under the prior लेबलिंग प्रथाओं.
The age statement on a बोतल of single malt स्कॉच is the number of सालो the व्हिस्की spent maturing in cask.
As very few whiskies are bottled from a single cask the आयु statement reflects the age of the youngest malt in the mix.
A texture may be arranged so as to, `` closely दृष्टिकोण the single-object status of fused-ensemble timbres, for example, the खूबसूरत 'northern लाइट्स ' कॉर्ड..., in a very interesting distribution of pitches, produces a fused sound supported by a suspended झांझ roll `` ( Erickson ( 1975 ), p.166 & 168 ).
In contrast to अधिक traditional musical textures, ध्वनि mass संयोजन `` minimizes the importance of individual pitches in वरीयता for texture, timbre, and dynamics as प्राथमिक shapers of gesture and impact. ''
Developed इससे the modernist टोन क्लस्टर and spread to orchestral writing by the late 1950s और 1960s, sound-mass `` obscures the boundary between ध्वनि और रव `` ( एडवर्ड्स 2001, pp. 326–27 ).
Techniques which may create or be प्रयुक्त with ध्वनि द्रव्यमान include extended techniques ऐसे as muted पीतल or स्ट्रिंग्स, आतुर tonguing, wide vibrato, चरम सीमाएँ, and glissandos.
composers and works शामिल Barbara kolb, Pauline oliveros ' Sound पैटर्न लिये chorus ( 1961 ), Norma Beecroft 's इससे सपनो of Brass for कोरस ( 1963–1964 ), and Nancy Van de vate.
Beecroft `` blurs व्यक्तिगत pitches in favor of a collective timbre through the उपयोग of vocal and instrumental क्लस्टर, choral speech, narrator, और a wash of sounds from an electronic टेप. ''
( ibid )
A very जल्दी उदाहरण is the opening of Jean-Féry विद्रोही 's ballet लेस Elémens ( 1737–38 ), where chaos is represented by a धीरे cumulating orchestral cluster of all seven टीप of the d minor scale ( henck 2004, pp. 52–54 ).
a later example is the third movement of Ruth क्रॉफर्ड Seeger 's String Quartet 1931 ( Nonesuch H-71280 ) while अधिक recently Phill Niblock 's multiple ड्रोन based म्यूज़िक serves as an उदाहरण.
The उपयोग of `` chords approaching timbres '' begins with Debussy और edgard Varèse प्रायः carefully scored individual instrumental parts so कि वे would fuse into एक ensemble timbre or sound द्रव्यमान ( Erickson 1975, pp. 18 and 21 ).
अन्य examples शामिल European `` textural '' रचनाएं of the fifties and sixties ऐसे as Krzysztof Penderecki 's Threnody to the पीड़ितों of Hiroshima ( 1959 ) और györgy Ligeti 's works featuring micropolyphony in works like Atmosphères ( 1961 ) and उसके Requiem ( 1963-65 ).
अन्य composers with works using this technique शामिल Henryk Górecki, Karel Husa, Witold lutosławski, kazimierz serocki, and Steven Stucky.
ध्वनि mass techniques भी appear in the music of George crumb ( anon. n.d. ).
विद्यार्थी attending a lecture on रैखिक बीजगणित at the हेलसिंकी विश्वविद्यालयों of Technology
विद्यार्थियों in rural Sudan, 2002
a student is a learner, or someone who attends an educational संस्था.
In some nations, the अंग्रेज़ी term ( or its cognate in another language ) is reserved लिये those जो attend university, जबकि a schoolchild अंतर्गत the age of eighteen is called a pupil in अंग्रेज़ी ( or an equivalent in other भाषाएं ), although in the संयुक्त States a व्यक्ति enrolled in grades K–12 is often called a student.
In its widest उपयोग, छात्र is used लिये anyone who is learning.
Australia is a महाद्वीप comprising मेनलैंड ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Tasmania, New गिनी, seram, possibly timor, and neighbouring islands.
the continent is sometimes known in technical contexts by the names Sahul, Australinea or meganesia, to distinguish it from the Australian mainland.
it is the smallest of the seven traditional महाद्वीपों in the English conception.
New जीलैंड is not part of the महाद्वीप of Australia, but of the separate, submerged continent of Zealandia.
zealandia and Australia हैं both part of the wider regions ज्ञात as Australasia और Oceania.
The continent of Australia lies on a continental shelf overlain by shallow seas जिससे divide it into अनेक landmasses — the अराफुरा Sea और Torres जलसन्धि between मेनलैंड ऑस्ट्रेलिया and New Guinea, और Bass Strait between मेनलैंड Australia और Tasmania.
जब sea levels were lower दौरान the Pleistocene बर्फ age, सहित the last glacial maximum about 18,000 bc, वे यहूद connected by शुष्क जमीन.
दौरान the past टेन thousand years, rising sea स्तर overflowed the lowlands और separated the महाद्वीप into today 's low-lying arid to semi-arid मेनलैंड और the दो mountainous आइलैंड्स of नई Guinea and Tasmania.
Geologically, a महाद्वीप extends to the edge of इसके महाद्वीपीय शेल्फ, so the now-separate islands are माना भाग of the महाद्वीप.
Due to the spread of पशु, fungi और पौधे across the सिंगल pleistocene landmass the पृथक lands have a सम्बन्धित biota.
Central Park is nearly twice as बिग as the world 's second-smallest country, Monaco.
historically इसके टंकी यहूद important components of the city 's water supply.
पर्यावरणीय issues in New यॉर्क City हैं प्रभावित by the city 's size, density, abundant public transportation infrastructure, और स्थान at the मुँह of the Hudson नदी.
New यॉर्क 's जनसांख्यिकी density has पर्यावरणीय pros और cons.
it facilitates the उच्चतम द्रव्यमान पारगमन use in the संयुक्त राज्य, but also concentrates प्रदूषण.
गैसोलीन consumption in the नगर is at the रेट the नेशनल average was in the 1920s, और ग्रीनहाउस gas emissions हैं a fraction of the नेशनल average, at 7.1 metric टन प्रति person प्रति year, below San Francisco, at 11.2 मीट्रिक टन, and the national औसत, at 24.5 metric tons.
New यॉर्क City accounts for only 1 % of संयुक्त राज्य greenhouse gas emissions जबकि housing 2.7 % of its population.
in सितंबर 2012, नई यॉर्क थी नामित the # 1 `` America 's Dirtiest City, '' by a Travel+Leisure readership survey that rated the पर्यावरणीय quality of 35 prominent शहरों in the United राज्य.
Atlanta (, stressed, locally ) is the पूंजी of और the most populous नगर in the u.S. state of जॉर्जिया, with an estimated 2011 जनसांख्यिकी of 432,427.
Atlanta is the cultural और आर्थिक center of the Atlanta metropolitan क्षेत्रफल, घर to 5,457,831 people and the नवीं largest महानगर area in the संयुक्त राज्य.
अटलांटा is the काउंटी seat of Fulton County, and a small portion of the नगर extends eastward into DeKalb County.
Atlanta was स्थापित in 1837 at the intersection of two रेलरोड lines, and the city rose इससे the ashes of the Civil War to become a national बीच of commerce.
in the decades following the Civil Rights Movement, दौरान जिससे the नगर अर्जित a प्रतिष्ठा as `` too व्यस्त to नफ़रत '' लिये the progressive दृश्य of its citizens and leaders, अटलांटा attained international prominence.
Atlanta is the प्राथमिक transportation hub of the southeastern संयुक्त States, via highway, railroad, और air, साथ Hartsfield–Jackson अटलांटा International विमानक्षेत्र होने the संसार 's busiest विमानक्षेत्र since 1998.
अटलांटा is considered an `` अल्फा ( - ) संसार नगर, '' and, with a gross domestic उत्पाद of US $ 270 अरब, atlanta’s अर्थव्यवस्था ranks 15th among world cities और sixth in the nation.
Although atlanta’s economy is considered diverse, dominant sectors include लोजिस्टिक्स, professional और business सेवाएं, media परिचालन, government प्रशासन, and उच्चतर education.
topographically, Atlanta is चिह्नित by rolling पहाड़ियाँ and घना tree coverage.
पुनरोद्धार of Atlanta 's पड़ोस, initially spurred by the 1996 Olympics, has intensified in the 21st century, altering the city 's demographics, राजनीती, and संस्कृति.
A 1947 प्रचार कॉमिक book published by the Catechetical Guild Educational Society उठाने the specter of a Communist कब्ज़ा
mccarthyism is the अभ्यास of making आरोपों of disloyalty, subversion, or treason without proper regard for प्रमाण.
it भी means `` the practice of बनाना unfair दोषारोपण or using unfair investigative तकनीकों, विशेषकर in order to restrict dissent or political आलोचना. ''
The term रै इसके origins in the काल in the United States ज्ञात as the Second Red Scare, स्थायी roughly from 1950 to 1956 and characterized by heightened fears of communist influence on American institutions और espionage by Soviet agents.
Originally coined to criticize the anti-communist pursuits of Republican u.s. सीनेटर जोसेफ McCarthy of Wisconsin, `` McCarthyism '' soon took on a broader अर्थ, describing the excesses of समान efforts.
The पद is also अभी प्रयुक्त अधिक generally to describe reckless, unsubstantiated accusations, as well as demagogic attacks on the character or patriotism of political adversaries.
दौरान the McCarthy era, thousands of अमेरिकी were accused of होने साम्यवादियों or communist sympathizers और became the विषय of aggressive investigations और questioning पहले government or private-industry panels, committees and एजेंसियों.
the प्राथमिक लक्ष्य of such suspicions were government employees, those in the entertainment industry, educators and union कार्यकर्ताओं.
Suspicions यहूद प्रायः दिए credence despite inconclusive or questionable evidence, and the level of threat posed by a व्यक्ति 's रियल or supposed leftist associations or मान्यताओं was often greatly exaggerated.
अनेक people suffered loss of employment and/or विनाश of their करियर ; some even suffered कारावास.
Most of these punishments came परिचय through trial verdicts बाद overturned, laws कि would be declared unconstitutional, dismissals for reasons later declared illegal or actionable, or extra-legal प्रक्रियाओं कि would come into general disrepute.
the most famous उदाहरण of McCarthyism शामिल the भाषणों, investigations, और hearings of Senator McCarthy himself ; the Hollywood blacklist, संबद्ध with hearings conducted by the House Un-American क्रियाएँ Committee ( HUAC ) ; और the various anti-communist activities of the संघीय Bureau of छानबीन ( FBI ) अंतर्गत Director J. Edgar Hoover.
McCarthyism was a widespread social और cultural घटना कि affected सब स्तर of society और was the source of a great deal of debate and conflict in the संयुक्त States.
Napoleon is a fictional character और the main विपक्षी in जार्ज Orwell 's Animal फार्म.
जबकि he is at पहला a आम farm pig, he gets rid of Snowball, another pig which साझा the शक्ति.
He then takes लाभ of the पशु ' uprising against their masters to eventually become the tyrannical `` President of Animal Farm, '' which he turns into a तानाशाही.
वरुण लोगो
the NEPTUNE Canada project is the world’s पहला regional-scale underwater समंदर वेधशाला that plugs directly into the Internet.
चूंकि दिसम्बर 2009, it has अनुमत लोगों to `` लहरे '' the seafloor while ocean वैज्ञानिकों run deep-water प्रयोग from लैब्स and universities around the संसार.
Along with its sister project, VENUS, NEPTUNE offers a unique approach to समंदर विज्ञान.
Traditionally, ocean scientists have relied on infrequent ship cruises or space-based satellites to carry आउट their शोध, जबकि the वरुण project उपयोग a remotely operated crawler.
The Coronet was a full-size car इससे Dodge in the 1950s, initially the प्रभाग 's उच्चतम trim लकीर लकिन, starting in 1955, the न्यूनतम trim line.
in the 1960s, the name was transferred to चकमा 's mid-size प्रविष्टि.
arm9 is an ARM architecture 32-bit RISC cpu परिवार.
Commonwealth is a परंपरागत English term for a political जातियाँ founded for the आम शुभ.
historically, it रै sometimes been synonymous with `` गणतंत्र ``.
अधिक recently it has been प्रयुक्त for fraternal एसोसिएशन of some sovereign राष्ट्र.
Most notably, the Commonwealth of राष्ट्र, an association primarily of former members of the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य, is प्रायः referred to as बस `` the Commonwealth ''.
The September 11 हमले ( also referred to as September 11, सितंबर 11th, or 9/11 ) were a series of चार समन्वित terrorist attacks launched by the Islamic terrorist group al-Qaeda upon the संयुक्त राज्य in New यॉर्क नगर और the Washington, D.C. क्षेत्रफल on सितंबर 11, 2001.
चार passenger airliners were hijacked by 19 al-Qaeda आतंकवादी so they could be flown into buildings in suicide attacks.
दो of those planes, American Airlines Flight 11 and संयुक्त एयरलाइंस Flight 175, यहूद crashed into the उत्तर और दक्षिण towers, respectively, of the World Trade बीच complex in New York नगर.
भीतर two hours, both मीनारें collapsed with मलबा and the resulting fires causing partial or पूरा collapse of सब अन्य इमारतें in the WTC जटिल, as well as major damage to ten अन्य विशाल surrounding structures.
a तीसरा प्लेन, American एयरलाइंस Flight 77, was crashed into the प्रस्तुतीकरण ( the headquarters of the United राज्य Department of Defense ), leading to a partial collapse in its western side.
The fourth प्लेन, United Airlines उड़ान 93, was targeted at the संयुक्त राज्य Capitol in Washington, d.C., लकिन crashed into a field near Shanksville, पेन्सिलवेनिया, after इसके passengers आजमाया to overcome the hijackers.
in कुल, almost 3,000 people died in the हमले, including the 227 civilians और 19 hijackers सवार the four planes.
Suspicion quickly fell on al-qaeda.
Although the समूह 's leader, ओसामा bin Laden, initially अस्वीकृत कोई involvement, in 2004 he claimed जिम्मेदारी for the हमले.
al-qaeda और bin लादेन cited U.S. support of Israel, the presence of U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia, and sanctions against इराकी as motives for the हमले.
The United States responded to the हमले by शुभारंभ the युद्ध on Terror and आक्रमणकारी Afghanistan to depose the तालिबान, which had harbored al-Qaeda.
Many देशों strengthened their anti-terrorism legislation और expanded विधि enforcement शक्तियां.
Having evaded capture for years, बिन लादेन was स्तिथ and मारे by u.S. forces in May 2011.
The विनाश of the Twin Towers और अन्य properties caused serious damage to the अर्थव्यवस्था of Lower मैनहटन and था a significant effect on global markets.
क्लीनअप of the World व्यापार Center site was completed in May 2002, and the प्रस्तुतीकरण was repaired भीतर a year.
Numerous memorials have been constructed, सहित the National सितंबर 11 मेमोरियल & संग्रहालय in New York, the Pentagon Memorial, और the Flight 93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania.
After a lengthy विलंब, the One World Trade Center is expected to be completed at Ground Zero in New यॉर्क City in 2013.
Crater Lake National Park is a संयुक्त States National Park स्तिथ in southern Oregon.
Established in 1902, crater Lake National पार्क is the fifth oldest national park in the संयुक्त राज्य और the तभी one in the state of Oregon.
The पार्क encompasses the caldera of crater झील, a remnant of a नष्ट ज्वालामुखी, माउंट Mazama, और the surrounding पहाड़ियाँ and वनों.
the lake is deep at its deepest point, जिससे makes it the deepest lake in the United States, the second deepest in North अमेरिका and the ninth deepest in the संसार.
Crater Lake is often referred to as the सातवाँ deepest lake in the world, but this पूर्व लिस्टिंग excludes the approximately गहराई of subglacial Lake Vostok in अंटार्कटिक, which resides अंतर्गत nearly of बर्फ, and the recent report of a maximum depth लिये Lake o'higgins /san Martin, स्तिथ on the border of Chile and Argentina.
However, when comparing इसके औसत depth of to the औसत depth of other deep झीलों, Crater झील becomes the deepest in the Western गोलार्ध and the third deepest in the संसार.
The impressive औसत गहराई of this volcanic lake is due to the nearly सममित deep caldera formed 7,700 सालो ago during the violent climactic eruptions और subsequent collapse of Mount Mazama and the relatively नम जलवायु कि is typical of the crest of the Cascade Range.
The caldera रिम ranges in elevation from.
The संयुक्त States geological Survey benchmarked उन्नयन of the lake surface itself is.
इस National Park encompasses.
Crater Lake has no streams flowing into or आउट of it.
सब जल कि enters the झील is आखिरकार खोया from evaporation or subsurface seepage.
The झील 's water commonly रै a striking blue hue, and the lake is re-filled entirely from direct वर्षण in the form of snow और rain.
the Supreme Court of the संयुक्त States is the highest अदालत in the संयुक्त राज्य.
It रै ultimate ( and largely discretionary ) appellate jurisdiction over सब संघीय courts and over state अदालत cases involving मुद्दे of संघीय law, और original jurisdiction over a छोटी दायरा of cases.
the Court, which meets in the United States Supreme अदालत भवन in Washington, d.C., consists of a chief इंसाफ और eight associate justices जो are मनोनीत by the अध्यक्ष और पुष्टि by the United राज्य Senate.
एकबार नियुक्त, justices have life tenure जबतक they resign, रिटायर, or हैं removed after impeachment.
conroe is the seat of मोंटगोमरी काउंटी और जलप्रपात भीतर the metropolitan क्षेत्रफल.
It is located about उत्तर of Houston.
As of जुलाई 2011, the city जनसांख्यिकी थी 58,973, up from 36,811 in 2000.
the Book of Mormon is a sacred text of the Latter Day संत movement, which adherents मानना contains writings of प्राचीन prophets who lived on the American continent इससे लगभग 2200 BC to AD 421.
It थी पहला published in March 1830 by जोसेफ स्मिथ as The किताब of Mormon : an Account लिखा by the हाथ of mormon upon प्लेटों Taken इससे the Plates of nephi.
According to Smith 's खाता, and also according to the book 's narrative, the किताब of Mormon was originally written in otherwise unknown वर्ण referred to as `` reformed मिश्र `` engraved on सुनहरी plates.
Smith claimed that the last prophet to contribute to the किताब, a man नामित Moroni, दफ्न it in a hill in present-day New यॉर्क और then returned to earth in 1827 as an देवदूत, revealing the location of the book to स्मिथ और instructing उसे to translate और disseminate it as प्रमाण of the बहाली of मसीह 's true गिरिजाघर in the latter days.
the Book of Mormon has a क्रमांक of original and distinctive doctrinal discussions on subjects such as the fall of Adam और Eve, the प्रकृति of the प्रायश्चित, eschatology, मोचन from physical and spiritual मौत, और the organization of the latter-day गिरिजाघर.
the pivotal event of the book is an appearance of यीशु मसीह to the Americas shortly after his क़यामत.
The Book of Mormon is the earliest of the unique कृतियाँ of the Latter दिन Saint movement, the denominations of जिससे typically लिहाज़ the text not only as scripture लकिन भी as a ऐतिहासिक रिकार्ड of God 's dealings साथ the ancient inhabitants of the Americas.
The Book of Mormon is divided into smaller books, titled बाद the individuals named as primary authors and, in सबसे संस्करण, विभाजित into chapters और आयतें.
it is written in English, very समान to the जल्दी Modern English भाषाई स्टाइल of the King जेम्स Version of the बाइबल, and रै since महरूम fully or partially translated into 108 languages.
an enlisted rank ( भी known as an enlisted ग्रेड or आयोजिक रेट ) is, in सबसे militaries, कोई rank below कि of a commissioned अधिकारी or warrant officer.
the term can also be inclusive of non-commissioned अधिकारियों.
In most मामले, enlisted सेवा personnel perform jobs specific to उनके अपना occupational specialty, as opposed to the more generalized कमांड responsibilities of commissioned officers.
`` What a Wonderful World '' is a सोंग लिखा by Bob Thiele ( as `` जार्ज डगलस '' ) and George दाउद Weiss.
It was पहला अंकित by Louis Armstrong और released as a single in 1967.
Thiele and Weiss were दोनो prominent in the म्यूज़िक world ( thiele as a producer and वेइस as a composer/performer ).
Armstrong 's recording was inducted in the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1999.
The प्रकाशन for this सोंग is नियंत्रित by मेमोरी Lane Music Group, Carlin म्यूज़िक corp., and Bug Music, inc.
1908 पोस्टर advertising gaumont 's sound films.
The Chronomégaphone, designed for विशाल हॉल, employed संपीडित air to amplify the recorded sound.
a sound film is a गति picture with synchronized ध्वनि, or ध्वनि technologically coupled to image, as opposed to a मूक फिल्मी.
the first known पब्लिक exhibition of projected sound films took place in पेरिस in 1900, लकिन decades would pass पहले sound motion pictures were made commercially व्यावहारिक.
Reliable synchronization was difficult to achieve with the early sound-on-disc systems, and प्रवर्धन and रिकॉर्डिंग quality were भी अपर्याप्त.
नवप्रवर्तनों in sound-on-film led to the first वाणिज्यिक स्क्रीनिंग of short motion pictures using the प्रौद्योगिकी, जिससे took place in 1923.
the प्राथमिक steps in the commercialization of sound cinema were taken in the mid- to late 1920s.
At पहला, the sound films incorporating synchronized dialogue—known as `` talking तस्वीरें '', or `` talkies '' —were exclusively shorts ; the earliest feature-length फिल्मों साथ अंकित ध्वनि included only music and effects.
the first feature फिल्मी originally प्रस्तुत as a talkie was The Jazz Singer, released in October 1927.
A major hit, it थी made with Vitaphone, the leading brand of sound-on-disc प्रौद्योगिकी.
Sound-on-film, however, होता जल्द become the मानक for talking pictures.
By the early 1930s, the talkies यहूद a global phenomenon.
in the संयुक्त States, वे helped सुरक्षित Hollywood 's position as one of the world 's सबसे powerful cultural/commercial systems ( see Cinema of the United States ).
in Europe ( and, to a lesser उपाधि, elsewhere ) the new development was treated साथ suspicion by many filmmakers and आलोचकों, who worried that a focus on dialogue would subvert the अद्वितीय aesthetic virtues of soundless सिनेमा.
in Japan, where the popular film परंपरा integrated silent फिल्म और live vocal performance, talking तस्वीरें were slow to लो root.
In India, ध्वनि was the transformative element कि led to the rapid विस्तार of the स्वदेश 's फिल्मी industry—the सबसे productive ऐसे industry in the संसार चूंकि the early 1960s.
अफ़्रीकी लोगों हैं natives or निवासियों of अफ़्रीकी and people of African descent.
The Australian रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग Association Music Awards ( commonly known as aria म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार or ARIA पुरस्कार ) is an सालाना series of awards नाइट्स celebrating the Australian music उद्योग, put on by the Australian Recording उद्योग संघ ( ARIA ).
the event has been आयोजित annually चूंकि 1987 and encompasses the general genre-specific and popular पुरस्कार ( these are कया is प्रायः being referred to as `` the ARIA awards '' ) as well as Fine कला पुरस्कार और Artisan Awards ( held separately from 2004 ), Lifetime उपलब्धि पुरस्कार और aria हॉल of कीर्ति – held separately from 2005 to 2010 but returned to the सामान्य ceremony in 2011.
For 2010, ARIA introduced public voted पुरस्कार for the पहला time.
जीतना, or even being nominated लिये, an ARIA award results in a lot of मीडिया ध्यान on an कलाकार, और प्रायः increases recording sales several-fold – in 2005, for example, बाद Ben Lee won तीन पुरस्कार, his album Awake Is the New नींद jumped from no. 31 to no. 5 in the aria Charts, इसके highest position.
For-profit शिक्षा ( भी known as the शिक्षा services industry or proprietary education ) refers to शैक्षणिक institutions operated by निजी, profit -seeking businesses.
There हैं three प्रकार of for-profit स्कूलों.
एक प्रकार is known as an educational management organization ( भावनाएं ), and ये हैं प्राथमिक and द्वितीयक शैक्षणिक institutions.
EMOs कार्य साथ school districts or charter schools, using पब्लिक निधि to finance operations.
the majority of for-profit schools in the K–12 सेक्टर in America function as EMOs, and have grown in number in the mid-2000s.
The अन्य major category of for-profit schools are post-secondary institutions जिससे operate as businesses, receiving fees इससे each student वे enroll.
A third type of for-profit schools, which is less prevalent in the United States, हैं K–12 schools which operate as businesses.
emos फलन differently इससे charter स्कूलों निर्मित in order to carry out a particular शिक्षण pedagogy ; most charter स्कूलों हैं mission-oriented, जबकि EMOs और अन्य for-profit संस्थानों are market-oriented.
While समर्थक argue कि the लाभ motive encourages efficiency, this arrangement has also drawn controversy and criticism.
केविन Carey, director of the education policy कार्यक्रम of the New अमरीकी न्यास said in a 2010 column in The Chronicle of Higher Education that `` For-profits exist in large part to फिक्स शैक्षणिक market failures बाएँ by परंपरागत institutions, and they profit by serving students that public और निजी nonprofit संस्थानों too often ignore. ''
He also noted that `` There 's no शक कि the worst for-profits are ruthlessly exploiting the commodified college उपाधि.
लकिन वे किया n't commodify it in the first प्लेस. ''
amendment xxii in the National Archives
The twenty-second Amendment of the संयुक्त States संविधान सेट a term सीमा लिये election to the office of President of the United राज्य.
Congress passed the amendment on कूच 21, 1947.
it was ratified by the requisite number of states on February 27, 1951.
इस is an एपीसोड guide for the दुश्मनी series bobobo-bo bo-bobo.
इस list encompasses every एपीसोड, beginning साथ the original Japanese-language title as they aired on TV Asahi, followed by the title used in the अंग्रेज़ी dubbed version airing in the United States on कार्टून Network.
A छोटी सारांश होगा follow, introducing the episode and referring to some of the gags, लकिन not giving the complete summaries to the episodes.
सब names and some of the references will be the ones प्रयुक्त from the English-language version to avoid confusion.
जापानी names may be presented after the dub name in कोष्ठक.
This आलेख is परिचय the public पार्क in New यॉर्क नगर.
For अन्य uses, see Central Park ( बहुविकल्पी ).
Central Park is a public पार्क at the center of Manhattan in New यॉर्क नगर.
the पार्क initially खोली in 1857, on of city-owned land ( it is 843 एकड़ today ).
in 1858, फ्रेडरिक Law Olmsted और Calvert vaux जीती a डिज़ाइन competition to improve and expand the park with a योजना they entitled the Greensward योजना.
Construction began the same year, जारी दौरान the American Civil युद्ध, and थी समाप्त in 1873.
सेंट्रल Park is the सबसे visited शहरी पार्क in the संयुक्त States.
designated a नेशनल ऐतिहासिक Landmark in 1962, the park is फिलहाल managed by the Central Park Conservancy अंतर्गत contract साथ the city government.
the conservancy is a non-profit संगठन that contributes 83.5 % of सेंट्रल पार्क 's $ 37.5 लाख annual budget, and employs 80.7 % of the park 's maintenance staff.
TracFone Wireless, Inc. is a प्रीपेड wireless service provider operating in the United States including प्यूर्टो Rico and the US Virgin Islands और is a subsidiary of Mexico 's largest दूरसंचार प्रदाता, América Móvil.
as a मोबाईल Virtual Network Operator ( mvno ), TracFone Wireless holds अनेक समझौतों साथ the us largest wireless telecommunications कंपनियाँ to utilize उनके networks to provide service including those of Verizon, AT & t, Sprint, और T-Mobile.
TracFone बेतार offers इसके बेतार products under अनेक brands जिससे प्रत्येक also offer distinctive सेवा plans, the brands शामिल TracFone, net10 Wireless, सीधा Talk, SafeLink Wireless, Telcel América और Simple मोबाईल.
A grab dredge
Dredging is an खुदाई कार्यकलाप or आपरेशन प्रायः carried आउट at least partly underwater, in उथले समंदर or भैस जल areas with the purpose of gathering up bottom sediments and disposing of them at a अलग location.
This technique is प्रायः used to keep waterways navigable.
it is also used as a way to replenish बालू on कुछ पब्लिक beaches, where sand has महरूम खोया because of तटीय अपरदन.
Dredging is भी used as a technique लिये फ़िशिंग for certain species of edible क्लेम and crabs, देखिए fishing dredge.
a dredger ( or “dredge” as is the सामान्य usage in the americas ) is any device, यंत्र, or vessel that is used to excavate और remove material इससे the bottom of a देह of जल.
For example, a स्कूप attached to the end of a rope or pole by जिससे a man can draw sediments up इससे the नीचे of a तालाब is a dredger.
Developing इस idea further, a motorized crane equipped with a drag बाल्टी or clamshell ( grabber ) that is used to scoop material from the नीचे of a देह of जल is also a dredger.
the क्रेन could be स्तिथ on the बैंको, or शायद आरोहित on a barge.
if the क्रेन is आरोहित on a barge, the entire पोत is referred to as a dredger.
The process of dredging creates spoils ( excess सामग्री ), जिससे are carried दूर इससे the dredged area.
Dredging can produce materials for जमीन reclamation or other उद्देश्य ( प्रायः construction-related ), और has also historically played a significant भूमिका in सुनहरा mining.
Dredging can बनाएँ disturbance in aquatic ecosystems, often साथ प्रतिकूल impacts.
Cleveland ज्वालामुखी in the aleutian आइलैंड्स of Alaska photographed इससे the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Space Station, May 2006.
Ash plumes पहुँचे a height of 19 km during the climactic eruption at Mount Pinatubo, फिलीपीन in 1991.
A volcano is an opening, or rupture, in a planet 's सतह or crust, which allows hot magma, volcanic ash और gases to escape इससे the मैग्मा कक्ष नीचे the surface.
ज्वालामुखी are generally मिला जहाँ tectonic plates are diverging or converging.
A mid-oceanic ridge, for example the mid-atlantic Ridge, has उदाहरण of volcanoes caused by divergent tectonic plates pulling apart ; the प्रशांत Ring of आग has उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी caused by अभिसारी tectonic प्लेटों coming साथ.
by contrast, volcanoes are प्रायः नहीं created where two tectonic plates slide past one another.
Volcanoes can also रूप where there is stretching और thinning of the Earth 's crust in the इंटीरियर्स of plates, e.g., in the East अफ़्रीकी दरार, the कुएं gray-clearwater volcanic फ़ील्ड और the रिओ Grande Rift in North America.
इस प्रकार of volcanism जलप्रपात under the umbrella of `` Plate परिकल्पना '' volcanism.
volcanism दूर इससे थाली boundaries has भी been explained as mantle plumes.
ये so-called `` हॉटस्पॉट ``, लिये example हवाई, are postulated to arise इससे upwelling diapirs साथ magma इससे the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km deep in the धरती.
Erupting ज्वालामुखी can पोज़ many hazards, not only in the तात्कालिक vicinity of the eruption.
Volcanic ash can be a threat to वायुयान, in particular those with jet engines where ash particles can be melted by the high ऑपरेटिंग temperature.
Large eruptions can affect temperature as ash और droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the सूर्य and cool the धरती 's lower atmosphere or troposphere ; however, they also absorb heat radiated up from the Earth, thereby warming the stratosphere.
historically, so-called volcanic winters have caused catastrophic अकाल.
बेनेडिक्ट अर्नाल्ड ( June 14, 1801 ) थी a सामान्य during the American क्रांतिकारी War who originally लड़ा for the American Continental फौज लकिन defected to the अंग्रेजों फौज.
While a सामान्य on the अमरीकी side, he प्राप्त command of the फोर्ट at वेस्ट पाइंट, New York, और नियोजित to surrender it to the अंग्रेजों शक्तियां.
After the plan थी exposed in सितंबर 1780, he was commissioned into the British फौज as a ब्रिगेडियर general.
born in Connecticut, Arnold was a व्यापारी operating ships on the Atlantic Ocean when the war broke आउट in 1775.
After joining the growing army बाहर Boston, he distinguished himself through acts of intelligence and वीरता.
His actions शामिल the Capture of Fort ticonderoga in 1775, defensive and delaying tactics despite losing the Battle of valcour द्वीप on Lake champlain in 1776, the Battle of Ridgefield, कनेक्टिकट ( बाद जिससे he was promoted to प्रमुख general ), परिचालन in relief of the Siege of फोर्ट Stanwix, and key actions during the pivotal लड़ाइयों of Saratoga in 1777, in which he suffered लेग चोटों कि ended उसके कॉम्बैट करियर for अनेक सालो.
despite अर्नाल्ड 's सफलताओं, he was passed over for प्रमोशन by the महाद्वीपीय Congress जबकि other officers claimed credit for कुछ of his accomplishments.
adversaries in military and political वृत्त brought charges of corruption or other malfeasance, but most often he थी acquitted in औपचारिक पूछताछ.
Congress investigated उसके accounts and found he was indebted to कॉंग्रेस बाद बिता much of उसके own money on the war effort.
Frustrated and bitter, Arnold decided to change sides in 1779, और opened रहस्य negotiations with the अंग्रेजों.
In July 1780, he थी offered, जारी to pursue and थी awarded कमांड of वेस्ट पाइंट.
अर्नाल्ड 's योजना to आत्मसमर्पण the fort to the British was exposed when अमरीकी forces captured अंग्रेजों प्रमुख John André carrying papers that revealed the प्लाट.
Upon सीखना of आंद्रे 's capture, Arnold fled down the Hudson नदी to the British sloop-of-war Vulture, narrowly avoiding कैप्चर by the forces of George Washington, who had been alerted to the प्लाट.
Arnold received a commission as a brigadier general in the British Army, an सालाना पेंशन of £360, और a lump योग of over £6,000.
he led British forces on raids in वर्जिनिया, और against New लंदन and Groton, Connecticut, पहले the युद्ध effectively ended with the American विजय at Yorktown.
In the winter of 1782, अर्नाल्ड स्थानांतरित to London with उसके दूसरी wife, मार्गरेट `` Peggy '' Shippen Arnold.
He was खूब received by King George III and the Tories लकिन frowned upon by the Whigs.
In 1787, he लौटे to the व्यापारी business साथ his sons रिचर्ड and Henry in Saint जॉन, New ब्रंसविक.
He लौटे to London to settle permanently in 1791, जहाँ he died टेन years बाद.
क्युकी of the रास्ता he changed sides, उसके name quickly became a in the संयुक्त States लिये treason or betrayal.
उसके conflicting legacy is recalled in the अस्पष्ट nature of some of the memorials that have been placed in his honor.
कर्टिस Montague schilling ( born November 14, 1966 ) is a पूर्व अमरीकी Major League Baseball right-handed pitcher और Video Game developer.
he helped सीसे the Philadelphia फ़िलीज़ to the World Series in and won World Series championships in साथ the Arizona Diamondbacks और in and with the बोस्टन रेड Sox.
schilling retired साथ a career postseason रिकार्ड of 11–2.
उसके.846 postseason जीतना percentage is a major-league record among pitchers साथ at least 10 decisions.
After retiring, he founded Green Monster खेल which थी renamed 38 Studios.
The company released kingdoms of Amalur : Reckoning in February 2012, लकिन just three months later, Schilling laid off his संपूर्ण staff amid severe financial troubles that resulted in the company missing payroll the previous week.
Star Wars is an American epic स्पेस ओपेरा franchise centered on a film series निर्मित by George Lucas.
The film series has spawned a मीडिया मताधिकार outside the फिल्मी series पुकारा the Expanded Universe सहित किताबे, television श्रेणी, कंप्यूटर and वीडियो games, and comic किताबे.
These supplements to the film trilogies have resulted in significant development of the series ' fictional universe.
These मीडिया रखा the मताधिकार active in the अंतरिम between the फिल्मी trilogies.
The franchise portrays a galaxy that is described as far, दूर away in the distant past.
it commonly portrays Jedi as a representation of शुभ, in conflict with the Sith, their evil counterpart.
Their weapon of choice, the lightsaber, is commonly पहचाना in popular culture.
The fictional universe भी contains many विषयवस्तु, विशेषकर influences of दर्शनशास्त्र और religion.
The first film in the श्रेणी was originally released on may 25, 1977, under the शीर्षक Star Wars, by 20th सदी फॉक्स, और became a विश्वव्यापी pop संस्कृति phenomenon, followed by दो सिक्वेल, released at three-year intervals.
सोलह years after the रिलीज of the त्रयी 's final फिल्मी, the first in a नई prequel त्रयी of films थी released.
the three प्रीक्वेल films यहूद भी released at three-year intervals, साथ the फाइनल फिल्मी of the trilogy released on May 19, 2005.
In October 2012, the Walt डिज़्नी कम्पनी acquired लुकासफ़िल्म for $ 4.05 अरब और घोषित that it would उपज three new films, with the पहला फिल्मी, Star Wars एपीसोड VII, planned for रिलीज in 2015.
20th सदी Fox still retains the वितरण rights to the first दो स्टार युद्धों trilogies, owning स्थाई rights लिये the असली फिल्मी Episode iv : a नई Hope, while holding the rights to एपीसोड I–III, V and VI until may 2020.
Reactions to the original trilogy were ज़्यादातर धनात्मक, with the last फिल्मी होने considered the weakest, while the prequel त्रयी received a अधिक mixed reaction, साथ most of the praise होने for the फाइनल फिल्म, according to most review aggregator websites.
सब six of the प्रमुख films in the श्रेणी were भी nominated लिये or जीती अकादमी पुरस्कार.
All of the main films have महरूम बक्सा office successes, साथ the overall box दफ्तर revenue उत्पन्न by the स्टार Wars films ( सहित the नाट्य स्टार Wars : The Clone युद्धों ) totalling $ 4.49 billion, बनाना it the third-highest-grossing फिल्मी series.
The कामयाबी has also led to multiple re-releases in थिएटर लिये the श्रेणी.
plateletpheresis ( अधिक accurately called thrombocytapheresis or thrombapheresis, हालांकि these names हैं rarely used ) is the प्रक्रम of collecting thrombocytes, अधिक commonly called प्लेटलेट्स, a component of blood शामिल in रक्त clotting.
The term specifically refers to the method of collecting the platelets, which is performed by a यंत्र used in रक्त donation that separates the platelets और returns अन्य portions of the blood to the दाता.
platelet transfusion can be a life-saving procedure in preventing or treating गंभीर complications from bleeding और hemorrhage in patients जो have disorders manifesting as thrombocytopenia ( कम platelet count ) or platelet dysfunction.
इस process may भी be used therapeutically to treat disorders resulting in extraordinarily high platelet रिश्तो ऐसे as essential thrombocytosis.
In computer networking, a port is an application-specific or process-specific software construct सेवारत as a संचार endpoint in a computer 's host ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली.
a port is associated साथ an IP address of the host, as well as the प्रकार of प्रोटोकॉल used for communication.
The purpose of ports is to uniquely पहचानो अलग applications or प्रक्रियाओं कार्यशील on a single computer and thereby enable them to share a सिंगल physical connection to a packet-switched network like the Internet.
the प्रोटोकॉल that primarily उपयोग ports हैं the Transport Layer protocols, such as the हस्तांतरण Control Protocol ( TCP ) and the User Datagram प्रोटोकॉल ( UDP ) of the Internet प्रोटोकॉल सुइट.
A बंदरगाहों is पहचाना लिये प्रत्येक address और protocol by a 16-bit क्रमांक, commonly known as the बंदरगाहों number.
the port number, added to a computer 's IP address, completes the destination address for a communications सत्र.
कि is, data packets हैं routed across the संजाल to a specific destination ip address, और then, upon reaching the गंतव्य कंप्यूटर, are further routed to the विशिष्ट process bound to the destination port number.
Note कि it is the combination of ip पता and बंदरगाहों number together that must be globally unique.
Thus, अलग ip addresses or protocols may use the वही port क्रमांक for communication ; e.g., on a दिए host or interface यूडीपी और टीसीपी may उपयोग the same बंदरगाहों number, or on a host with two अंतरफलक, both addresses may be associated साथ a port having the वही क्रमांक.
Of the हज़ारों of enumerated ports, about 250 well-known ports are reserved by convention to पहचानो specific service types on a host.
In the client-server model of application architecture, पोर्ट हैं used to provide a multiplexing सेवा on प्रत्येक server-side बंदरगाहों number that संजाल क्लाइंट कनेक्ट to for सेवा दीक्षा, after जिससे संचार can be reestablished on other connection-specific बंदरगाहों numbers.
Area code 479 is the टेलीफोन area code serving तेरह counties in northwest अरकंसास, including the cities of Fort Smith, Fayetteville, Springdale, Rogers and Bentonville : the दूसरी, third, चौथी, आठवीं and tenth-largest cities in the राज्य, क्रमशः.
It was निर्मित in 2002 in a split from क्षेत्रफल कोड 501.
क्षेत्रफल कोड 479 serves benton, Carroll ( विभाजित साथ area code 870 ), Crawford, Franklin, Johnson, लोगन, मैडिसन, Polk, Pope, स्कॉट, Sebastian, Washington और Yell Counties in Arkansas.
Arraignment is a formal reading of a criminal चार्जिंग दस्तावेज़ in the presence of the defendant to inform the defendant of the charges against him or उसके.
In response to arraignment, the अभियुक्त is expected to डालें a दलील.
स्वीकार्य pleas vary among jurisdictions, but they generally include `` अपराधी '', `` नहीं अपराधी '', and the peremptory pleas ( or pleas in bar ) सेटिंग आउट कारण क्यों a विचारण can नहीं proceed.
Pleas of `` nolo contendere `` ( no प्रतियोगिता ) और the `` Alford plea `` are allowed in कुछ हालातों.
In इंग्लैण्ड, Wales, उत्तरी Ireland and ऑस्ट्रेलिया, arraignment is the first of eleven चरण in a दण्ड trial, और involves the clerk of the court reading out the indictment.
The प्रतिवादी is पूछा whether he or she pleads guilty or नहीं guilty to प्रत्येक charge.
In federal न्यायालयों of the United States, arraignment takes प्लेस in two चरण.
The पहला is पुकारा the initial arraignment और must लो place within 48 घंटों of an व्यक्तिगत 's गिरफ़्तार, 72 hours if the individual थी arrested on the वीकेंड and not able to go before a न्यायधीश until Monday.
दौरान इस arraignment the defendant is informed of the स्थगित legal charges और is informed of उसके or her right to retain counsel.
The presiding judge also decides at कया amount, if कोई, to नियत bail.
दौरान the second arraignment, a post-indictment arraignment or pia, the defendant is allowed to enter a दलील.
Geoffrey Chaucer ( ; c. 1343 – 25 अक्तूबर 1400 ), known as the Father of English literature, is widely considered the greatest English poet of the Middle आयु और was the पहला कवि to have महरूम buried in कवि 's Corner of Westminster Abbey.
While he achieved fame during उसके lifetime as an author, philosopher, कीमियागर और astronomer, composing a scientific treatise on the astrolabe लिये his ten year-old बेटे Lewis, चासर also maintained an active career in the civil service as a नौकरशाह, courtier and राजनयिक.
among उसके अनेक works, which include The Book of the Duchess, the हाउस of कीर्ति, the लेजेंड of Good Women और Troilus and Criseyde, he is best known आज लिये the Canterbury Tales.
Chaucer is a crucial figure in विकासशील the legitimacy of the vernacular, मध्य अंग्रेज़ी, at a time जब the प्रबल साहित्यिक भाषाएं in इंग्लैण्ड were French and लैटिन.
the शिकागो Blizzard of 1979 थी a major blizzard that affected northern Illinois and northwest इंडियाना, u.S. on जनवरी 13 – January 14, 1979.
of snow fell on जनवरी 13 alone, setting a new record for snow in एक पंचांग day.
By the end of जनवरी 14, of snow had fallen.
the ठंडा मौसम and snowfall throughout the बाकी of जनवरी और February resulted in frozen tracks throughout the Chicago 'L ' system.
Commuters crowded onto CTA buses, quickly overwhelming capacity, resulting in usual bus commutes of 30-45 minutes लेने up to अनेक hours.
to avoid विशाल snowdrifts in the streets, the overcrowded buses were obliged to take numerous detours, adding additional समय to the commute.
Deployment of plows was significantly delayed and जब they finally appeared वे struggled to रखना up साथ the snowfall.
Much of the हिम remained unremoved throughout the next 2 महीने, causing जारी public पारगमन देरी and significant problems with कचरा संग्रहण.
The नगर 's inadequate जवाब to the blizzard थी blamed primarily on mayor Michael bilandic, जो था assumed the post बाद the 1976 मौत of रिचर्ड J. डाले.
Newspaper articles at the time blasted Bilandic ; Jane byrne, Bilandic 's प्रमुख political rival in the Democratic primary ( who had previously worked साथ bilandic in the Daley administration और been fired by Bilandic when the two could not get along ), capitalized on इस and गई on to शिकस्त Bilandic in the February 27 प्राथमिक.
The 12-hour clock is a समय convention in which the 24 hours of the day हैं divided into दो periods : a.m. ( from the Latin ante meridiem, meaning `` पहले midday '' ) and p.m. ( post meridiem, `` बाद midday '' ).
Each period consists of 12 घंटों numbered : 12 ( acting as zero ), 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11.
The 12-hour clock was developed over time from the mid-second millennium BC to the 16th सदी ad.
स्वास्थ्य spending per capita, in $ us ppp-adjusted, with the us and Canada compared amongst other पहला world राष्ट्र.
तुलना of the health परवाह systems in कनाडा and the United States are प्रायः बना by सरकारी, public health and public policy analysts.
The two countries had similar health care प्रणालियों before कनाडा reformed its प्रणाली in the 1960s and 1970s.
the संयुक्त States खर्च much more धन on स्वास्थ्य care than कनाडा, on both a per-capita basis and as a percentage of GDP.
In 2006, per-capita बिता लिये स्वास्थ्य care in Canada was US $ 3,678 ; in the U.S., US $ 6,714.
the u.S. खर्च 15.3 % of GDP on health care in that साल ; कनाडा spent 10.0 %.
in 2006, 70 % of स्वास्थ्य care spending in कनाडा was financed by government, versus 46 % in the United राज्य.
Total सरकारी बिता per capita in the u.S. on health care was 23 % higher than Canadian सरकारी बिता, और u.S. सरकारी व्यय on health care was बस under 83 % of total Canadian बिता ( public and private ) हालांकि ये आंकडे do n't take into account population मतभेद.
Studies have आइये to different conclusions about the result of this disparity in बिता.
A 2007 review of all अध्ययन comparing health outcomes in Canada and the us in a Canadian peer-reviewed medical journal मिला that `` health outcomes may be superior in patients cared लिये in Canada बनाम the United States, लकिन मतभेद are नहीं consistent. ''
Life प्रत्याशा is longer in कनाडा, और इसके infant मृत्यु rate is lower than that of the u.S., but वहीँ is debate about the underlying causes of ये differences.
एक commonly cited comparison, the 2000 संसार Health संगठन 's दरजा of `` overall health service प्रदर्शन '', which प्रयुक्त a `` कम्पोजिट माप of उपलब्धि in the level of स्वास्थ्य, the वितरण of health, the level of responsiveness और fairness of वित्तीय योगदान '', क्रमित Canada 30th and the US 37th among 191 member nations.
This study rated the US `` responsiveness '', or quality of service for individuals receiving treatment, as 1st, compared with 7th लिये Canada.
While the average life expectancy for Canadians थी 80.34 years compared with 78.6 सालो for residents of the us, simply comparing the जीवन प्रत्याशा of दो समूह with अलग जातिगत makeup and अलग obesity rates is संभावित नहीं an प्रभावी way of determining which healthcare system is superior.
The WHO 's study विधि were criticized by some analyses.
हालांकि there is a माप of consensus that life-expectancy and शिशु मृत्यु चिह्नित the most विश्वसनीय ways to compare nation-wide health परवाह, assuming the population मेकअप is समान, a हाल report by the congressional शोध Service carefully summarizes some हाल data and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons.
Tarantulas comprise a group of often hairy और बहुत large arachnids belonging to the Theraphosidae परिवार of spiders, of which लगभग 900 प्रजाति have महरूम पहचाना.
This आलेख तभी describes members of theraphosidae, although some other members of the same suborder हैं commonly referred to as `` tarantulas ''.
Most प्रजाति of tarantulas are not dangerous to humans, और some प्रजाति have become लोकप्रिय in the exotic pet trade.
the ton is a unit of माप.
it has a long history and has acquired a number of meanings and uses over the years.
It is used principally as a ईकाई of weight, और as a unit of आवाज़.
it can भी be प्रयुक्त as a माप of energy, for truck classification, or as a colloquial term.
it is निकला from the tun, the term applied to a barrel of the largest size.
This could contain a volume between 210 and 256 गैलन ( 800 to 1000 L ), which could weigh around 2,000 पाउंड ( 900 kg ) और occupy some of space.
In the United किंगडम the ton is defined as ( avoirdupois pounds ).
From 1965 the UK embarked upon a कार्यक्रम of metrication और gradually introduced metric इकाई, including the tonne ( metric ton ), a non-si मीट्रिक unit पारिभाषित as 1000 kg.
The uk weights and Measures अधिनियम 1985 explicitly excluded from use लिये व्यापार many units और terms, including the ton and the पद `` मीट्रिक ton '' for `` tonne ''
in the United States and formerly Canada a ton is defined to be.
जहाँ confusion is possible, the 2240 lb ton is पुकारा `` long ton `` और the 2000 lb ton `` छोटी ton `` ; the टन is विशिष्ट by इसके spelling, लकिन usually pronounced the same as ton, hence the us term `` metric ton ''.
In the UK the फाइनल `` e '' of `` टन '' can भी be सुनाया ( /ˈtʌnɪ/ ), or `` metric ton '' जब it is जरुरी to make the भेद.
Where सटीकता is required the correct term must be used, but for many purposes this is नहीं necessary : the metric और long टन differ by only 1.6 %, and the छोटी ton is भीतर 11 % of दोनो.
the ton is the अधिकतम unit of वज़न referred to in colloquial speech.
the term `` ton '' is भी used to refer to a number of units of volume, ranging इससे in क्षमता.
It can also be प्रयुक्त as a ईकाई of उर्जा, expressed as an समतुल्य of कोयले burnt, TNT detonated, or in refrigeration, बर्फ melted.
In Britain, ton is प्रयुक्त in कठबोली in several contexts to mean `` 100 ''.
As a लागत or a speed, a ton is widely समझा to be £100 or 100 mph.
the स्टेनली कप ( ) is the चैंपियनशिप ट्रॉफी awarded annually to the नेशनल Hockey League ( NHL ) playoff winner after the निष्कर्ष of the Stanley कप Finals.
originally commissioned in 1892 as the डोमिनियन हॉकी Challenge Cup, the ट्रॉफी is named for रब Stanley of Preston, then- Governor सामान्य of कनाडा, who awarded it to कनाडा 's top-ranking amateur बर्फ हॉकी club, which the entire स्टेनली family supported, with the sons and daughters playing and promoting the game.
The first Cup was awarded in 1893 to Montreal HC.
In 1915, the two पेशेवर बर्फ hockey organizations, the National हॉकी Association ( NHA ) and the Pacific Coast Hockey Association ( PCHA ), पहुँचे a सज्जनों 's अनुबंध in जिससे their संबंधित champions would फेस प्रत्येक अन्य for the स्टेनली कप.
After a श्रेणी of league मर्जर and folds, the Stanley `` Presentation Cup '' was स्थापित as the de facto चैंपियनशिप trophy of the NHL in 1926 और then the de jure NHL championship पुरस्कार in 1947.
There are actually तीन Stanley Cups : the असली कटोरी of the `` Dominion हॉकी चुनौती Cup '', the authenticated `` प्रस्तुतीकरण Cup '', and the `` प्रतिरूप Cup '' at the हॉल of Fame.
The NHL रै maintained effective कंट्रोल over both the ट्रॉफी itself और इसके संबद्ध trademarks.
nevertheless, the NHL करता not actually own the trophy, but बजाय उपयोग it by agreement साथ the दो trustees of the Cup.
the एनएचएल has registered trademarks संबद्ध साथ the name and likeness of the Stanley कप, हालांकि the league 's right to outright अपना trademarks संबद्ध with a trophy it does not own रै been disputed by some legal विशेषज्ञ.
नापसंद the trophies awarded by the अन्य three major पेशेवर sports leagues of North अमेरिका, a new स्टेनली Cup is not made each year ; विजेता keep it जबतक a new चैंपियन is crowned.
It is असामान्य among trophies, in that it has the names of all of the जीतना खिलाड़ी, coaches, management, and club staff engraved on its chalice.
Initially, a new बैंड added each year caused the ट्रॉफी to grow in आकार, earning the nickname `` Stovepipe कप ''.
in 1958 the आधुनिक one-piece Cup was designed with a five-band बैरल which could contain 13 winning टीमों per band.
To avoid the Stanley कप from growing, when the नीचे बैंड is full, the oldest band is removed and preserved in the हॉकी Hall of Fame, and a new रिक्त band added to the bottom.
It has महरूम referred to as The Cup, रब Stanley 's कप, The Holy Grail, or facetiously ( chiefly by sportswriters ) as रब Stanley 's Mug.
The Stanley Cup is घिरी by numerous महापुरूष और traditions, the oldest of which is the celebratory drinking of champagne out of the कप by the जीतना टोली.
The असली bowl was बना of silver और is 18.5 सेण्टीमीटर ( 7.28 इंच ) in height and 29 centimetres ( 11.42 inches ) in diameter.
The current स्टेनली Cup, topped with a copy of the original कटोरी, is made of a चांदी और nickel मिश्रधातु ; it has a ऊँचाई of 89.54 सेण्टीमीटर ( 35.25 इंच ) और weighs 15.5 गामा ( 34.5 lb / 2 st 61⁄2 lb ).
चूंकि the 1914–15 ऋतु, the Cup रै been won a combined 94 टाइम्स by 18 active NHL टीमों और पाँच defunct teams.
Prior to that, the challenge कप was held by नौ अलग teams.
The Montreal canadiens have जीती the Cup a रिकार्ड 24 टाइम्स and are फिलहाल the last canadian-based team in the NHL to जीत the कप after जीतना it in 1993.
the स्टेनली कप थी नहीं awarded in 1919 क्युकी of a Spanish फ्लू epidemic, and in 2005, as a consequence of the NHL lockout.
The Pineapple ( Ananas comosus ) is a tropical plant with edible अनेक फल consisting of coalesced जामुन, और the most economically significant plant in the Bromeliaceae family.
Pineapples may be cultivated from a क्राउन cutting of the fruit, possibly flowering in 20–24 months और fruiting in the following six months.
Pineapple does नहीं ripen significantly post-harvest.
pineapples are खपत भैस, cooked, juiced, and preserved, और हैं मिला in a चौड़ी array of व्यंजन.
in addition to consumption, in the Philippines the अनानास 's पत्ते are प्रयुक्त to produce the textile fiber piña - employed as a component of wall paper and furnishings, amongst other uses.
in कंप्यूटर science, an integer is a datum of अभिन्न data प्रकार, a आंकड़ा type which represents कुछ finite subset of the mathematical integers.
अभिन्न data प्रकार may be of different आकार and may or may नहीं be अनुमत to contain negative values.
Integers are commonly represented in a computer as a समूह of binary अंक.
The size of the grouping varies so the set of पूर्णांक आकार available varies between अलग प्रकार of कंप्यूटर.
Computer hardware nearly always provides a रास्ता to represent a processor register or memory address as an integer.
The गॉर्डन Dam in तस्मानिया is a large हाइड्रो सुविधा, साथ an installed capacity of.
hydroelectricity is the पद referring to electricity generated by hydropower ; the उत्पादन of electrical power through the उपयोग of the gravitational force of गिरना or flowing जल.
It is the most widely प्रयुक्त form of renewable energy, accounting लिये 16 प्रतिशत of वैश्विक electricity पीढी – 3,427 terawatt-hours of electricity उत्पादन in 2010, and is अपेक्षित to increase about 3.1 % प्रत्येक year लिये the next 25 years.
hydropower is produced in 150 countries, with the asia-pacific region generating 32 percent of वैश्विक hydropower in 2010.
चीन is the largest hydroelectricity producer, with 721 terawatt-hours of production in 2010, representing around 17 percent of domestic electricity use.
वहीँ are now three hydroelectricity पौधे larger than 10 gw : the Three gorges बांध in चीन, Itaipu Dam across the Brazil/Paraguay किनारा, और Guri बांध in Venezuela.
The cost of hydroelectricity is relatively low, बनाना it a competitive सोर्स of बेदर्दी electricity.
the औसत cost of electricity from a हाइड्रो संयंत्र larger than 10 megawatts is 3 to 5 u.S. सेंट प्रति kilowatt-hour.
Hydro is also a लचीली source of विद्युत since plants can be ramped up and bas बहुत quickly to adapt to changing उर्जा मांगे.
however, damming interrupts the प्रवाह of rivers and can नुक़सान लोकल ecosystems, और building large dams और reservoirs often involves displacing people और wildlife.
एकबार a hydroelectric complex is constructed, the प्रोजेक्ट produces no direct waste, और has a considerably lower आउटपुट level of the greenhouse gas कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड ( ) than fossil fuel powered energy plants.
Wine लड़के at a Greek symposium
The history of wine spans thousands of सालो और is closely intertwined साथ the history of agriculture, cuisine, civilization and humanity itself.
Archaeological प्रमाण suggests that the earliest ज्ञात वाइन production occurred in what is अभी the country of जॉर्जिया around 7000 BCE, with other notable sites in Greater इरान दिनाँक 4500 BCE and अर्मेनिया 4100 bce, respectively.
the world 's oldest ज्ञात वाइनरी ( dated to 3000 BCE ) थी discovered in areni-1 गुफा in a mountainous area of Armenia.
URL_http.
increasingly साफ archaeological evidence indicates कि domestication of the grapevine took प्लेस during the Early कांस्य आयु in the Near East, सुमेर and मिश्र from around the third मिलेनियम bce.
प्रमाण of the earliest wine उत्पादन in Balkans has been uncovered at archaeological sites in northern यूनानियों ( Macedonia ), dated to 4500 BC.
These वही साइट भी contain remnants of the संसार 's earliest evidence of crushed grapes.
in Egypt, wine became a भाग of अंकित इतिहास, playing an important role in ancient ceremonial life.
traces of wild वाइन dating इससे the second and पहला सहस्राब्दियों BCE have also been मिला in चीन.
Moroccan वाइन Kasher लेबल 1930
The यहूदी tradition और use of kosher वाइन is dating वापस to biblical times.
the long history of the उपयोग and उत्पादन of wine throughout प्राचीन Israel is backed up by archeological प्रमाण.
भीतर the यहूदी diaspora समुदायों all around the globe, the traditional and religious उपयोग of kosher वाइन जारी to this day.
Wine, linked in myth to Dionysus / Bacchus, was common in ancient Greece and Rome, and अनेक of आज 's प्रमुख wine-producing regions of Western यूरोपीय were established with Phoenician और, later, रोमन बागानों.
winemaking technology improved considerably दौरान the समय of the Roman Empire : many अंगूर किस्में and cultivation techniques यहूद known ; the design of the wine press advanced ; and barrels were विकसित लिये storing and शिपिंग wine.
Rashi, a मध्यकालीन French रब्बी and पुकारा the `` father '' of all टीका कि followed on the Talmud and the Tanakh, earned his living as a vintner.
following the decline of रोम and इसके industrial-scale wine उत्पादन for निर्यात, the Christian गिरिजाघर in मध्यकालीन Europe भी became a firm supporter of wine, जरुरी for जश्न of the Catholic द्रव्यमान. whereas wine थी हराम in medieval Islamic संस्कृतियों, its use in Christian libation was widely tolerated.
Geber और अन्य मुस्लिम chemists pioneered the distillation of वाइन लिये Islamic medicinal and industrial उद्देश्य such as perfume.
वाइन उत्पादन धीरे increased, साथ consumption burgeoning from the 15th century onwards.
वाइन production बच the विनाशकारी Phylloxera जूं of 1887 and आखिरकार spread to numerous regions throughout the संसार.
जिले of West Bengal
The Indian राज्य of West बंगाल सीमायें with Nepal, Bhutan, बांग्लादेश and the Indian states of Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, असम and Sikkim.
the हिमालय lies in the north of the state and the खाड़ी of Bengal is at the दक्षिण.
in between उन्हें, the river Ganges flows eastwards और इसके main distributary, the Hooghly नदी, flows दक्षिण to reach the खाड़ी of बंगाल.
The Siliguri corridor, जिससे connects North-East India with rest of the India, lies in the उत्तर Bengal प्रदेश of the राज्य.
geographically, वेस्ट Bengal is divided into a किस्में of regions— Darjeeling हिमालयी hill region, terai and Doors region, North Bengal plains, Rarh प्रदेश, पश्चिमी पठार and ऊँची lands, coastal plains, sunderbans और the Ganges Delta.
In 1947, when India gained independence, the राज्य of वेस्ट Bengal was formed with 14 districts, as प्रति partition plan of the then Bengal province of British India.
The पूर्व princely राज्य Koch Bihar joined as a ज़िला in 1950, और the former फ्रेंच enclave Chandannagore joined as part of the हुगली district in 1954.
the States पुनर्गठन Act of 1956 led to जोड of पुरुलिया district to the state and to enlargement of West दिनाजपुर ज़िला.
Later, larger districts such as West Dinajpur, 24 परगना और Midnapore यहूद bifurcated.
West Bengal is now divided into उन्नीस districts under three divisions.
Districts हैं administered by District Magistrates, and विभाजन are administered by Divisional Commissioners.
Kolkata, the capital of the state, constitutes the Kolkata district.
Other districts are further विभाजित into प्रशासनिक units such as subdivisions and blocks, administered by sdo and BDO, respectively.
The पंचायती Raj has a three-tier ढांचा in the state.
The atomic unit is पुकारा a Gram पंचायत, which is the पंचायत organization for a collection of गांवों.
the block-level संगठन हैं पुकारा पंचायत samiti, and the district-level organizations are नामित Zilla Parishad.
the Caribbean ( or ; ; ; or more commonly antilles ) is a प्रदेश that consists of the Caribbean Sea, इसके आइलैंड्स ( कुछ surrounded by the Caribbean Sea और some bordering both the Caribbean समुद्र and the उत्तर Atlantic Ocean ), and the surrounding coasts.
the region is southeast of the Gulf of Mexico and the North American मेनलैंड, ईस्ट of Central अमेरिका, और north of दक्षिण America.
situated largely on the caribbean थाली, the प्रदेश comprises more than 700 आइलैंड्स, आइलेट, reefs, और cays.
( See the सूची. )
These islands generally रूप द्वीप arcs that delineate the पूर्वी and northern edges of the Caribbean समुद्र.
The caribbean आइलैंड्स, consisting of the Greater Antilles on the north और the Lesser antilles on the दक्षिण and east ( सहित the Leeward antilles ), are भाग of the somewhat larger वेस्ट Indies grouping, which also includes the lucayan द्वीपसमूह ( comprising the बहामा and Turks and Caicos Islands ) उत्तर of the Greater Antilles और Caribbean Sea.
In a wider sense, the मेनलैंड countries of बेलीज़ and गुयाना – historically और culturally भाग of the British वेस्ट इंडीज – may be शामिल.
Geopolitically, the Caribbean islands are usually regarded as a subregion of उत्तर अमेरिका और हैं organized into 30 territories including sovereign राज्य, विदेशी departments, और dependencies.
From जनवरी 3, 1958, to may 31, 1962, there was a short-lived देश called the Federation of the वेस्ट Indies composed of ten English-speaking caribbean territories, all of which were तब uk dependencies.
The West Indies cricket टोली continues to represent अनेक of those nations.
इस is a list of the 221 towns and 13 cities in the u.S. state of नई Hampshire.
For each town/city, the table सूचियाँ the काउंटी to जिससे it belongs, its तिथि of incorporation, its जनसांख्यिकी according to the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, its form of सरकारी, and its प्रिंसिपल villages.
शहरों are indicated in boldface.
शहरों and towns हैं treated identically under state law.
Cities are बस towns whose रूप of सरकारी was changed by a खास act of the New हैम्पशायर legislature.
However, towns फिलहाल are समर्थ to change their form of सरकारी by सरल voter स्वीकृति of a नई नगरपालिका चार्टर, with अनेक of the more populous towns having already done so.
The प्रमुख स्लेव रूट in medieval अफ़्रीकी.
This article discusses systems, इतिहास, और प्रभाव of slavery within अफ़्रीकी.
देखिए Arab स्लेव व्यापार, अटलांटिक slave trade, Maafa, and गुलामी in contemporary अफ़्रीकी for other चर्चाएँ.
`` स्लेव हस्तांतरण in Africa ''.
Europeans usually did not डालें the interior regions.
गुलामी in Africa has existed throughout the महाद्वीप for अनेक सदियां, and continues in the वर्तमान day.
Systems of servitude और गुलामी were common in many parts of the महाद्वीप, as they यहूद in much of the ancient world.
in सबसे अफ़्रीकी societies where slavery थी prevalent, the enslaved people were largely treated as indentured servants and not treated as chattel slaves.
When the अरब slave trade और अटलांटिक slave trade began, many of the local slave systems बदला और began supplying captives for स्लेव markets बाहर of अफ़्रीकी.
Slavery in historical अफ़्रीकी was practiced in अनेक अलग forms और some of ये do नहीं clearly fit the परिभाषाएं of गुलामी elsewhere in the world.
Debt गुलामी, enslavement of युद्ध captives, military गुलामी, और दण्ड slavery यहूद all practiced in various भाग of अफ़्रीकी.
हालांकि there had been कुछ trans-Saharan trade इससे the interior of Sub-Saharan Africa to अन्य regions, गुलामी was a छोटी भाग of the economic life of many societies in Africa जबतक the परिचय of transcontinental slave ट्रेड ( Arab and Atlantic ).
स्लेव practices were again रूपांतरित with European colonization of Africa and the औपचारिक abolition of गुलामी in the early 1900s.
Brett Lorenzo Favre ( born अक्तूबर 10, 1969 ) is a पूर्व American football quarterback जो spent the majority of his career साथ the ग्रीन Bay Packers of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ).
He थी a 20-year दिग्गज of the एनएफएल, having played quarterback लिये the Atlanta Falcons ( 1991 ), ग्रीन Bay पैकर्स ( 1992 – 2007 ), New York jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ).
Favre is the only quarterback in एनएफएल history to throw लिये over 70,000 गज, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, और over 10,000 pass कोशिशें.
Favre started at the quarterback स्थिति लिये the विश्वविद्यालयों of Southern मिसिसिपी for four सालो पहले being selected in the second गोलाकार of the 1991 एनएफएल Draft by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ).
He was traded to Green खाड़ी on February 10, 1992, for the 19th चुनें in the 1992 NFL Draft.
Favre became the पैकर्स ' starting quarterback in the fourth game of the 1992 ऋतु, stepping in for घायल quarterback डॉन Majkowski, और प्रारंभ every खेल through the 2007 season.
He थी traded to the New York jets और started at quarterback लिये the 2008 season before signing with the Vikings on August 18, 2009 as their starting quarterback.
he made an NFL record 297 consecutive starts ( 321 including playoffs ).
he is the only player to win the ap सबसे Valuable खिलाड़ी तीन consecutive times ( 1995–97 ).
He रै led teams to eight division championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), five NFC Championship Games ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), and two Super Bowl दिखावे ( Super कटोरी xxxi, Super Bowl XXXII ), जीतना one ( Super Bowl XXXI ).
he holds many NFL records, सहित सबसे career touchdown गुजरता, most career गुजर गज, most career pass completions, most करियर pass कोशिशें, most career interceptions thrown, most लगातार starts by a खिलाड़ी, सबसे consecutive starts by a quarterback, most करियर victories as a starting क्वार्टरबैक, most sacked, और most fumbles.
he is also referred to by उसके उपनाम `` The Gunslinger ''.
Salesforce.com Inc. is a global enterprise तन्त्र कम्पनी headquartered in San Francisco, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
हालांकि best known for its customer संबंध प्रबन्धन ( CRM ) product, Salesforce रै also विस्तारित into the `` social एंटरप्राइज़ एरिना '' through acquisitions.
It is फिलहाल ranked the most innovative company in America by फोर्ब्स magazine, as खूब as number 27 in सौभाग्य magazine 's 100 Best कंपनियाँ to Work For in 2012.
as of अप्रैल 2013, the company is ranked sixth in providing सेवाएं in विपणन and ग्राहक service automation.
it is सूचीबद्ध on the नई York Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the S & P 500 index.
Seahorse is the शीर्षक given to 54 species of marine fish in the genus हिप्पोकैम्पस.
`` Hippocampus '' आता from the Ancient Greek hippos अर्थ `` horse '' and kampos meaning `` समुद्र monster ''.
धरती is the third planet from the Sun, and the densest and fifth-largest of the eight planets in the सौर System.
It is भी the largest of the Solar प्रणाली 's four स्थलीय planets.
it is sometimes referred to as the संसार or the Blue Planet.
धरती formed approximately 4.54 billion सालो ago, and life appeared on इसके सतह within इसके first billion years.
Earth 's biosphere तब significantly altered the वायुमंडलीय और अन्य basic physical conditions, जिससे सक्रिय the proliferation of जीवों as well as the formation of the ozone layer, which साथ with Earth 's magnetic फ़ील्ड अवरोधित harmful सौर radiation, and permitted formerly ocean-confined life to move safely to land.
The physical properties of the Earth, as well as इसके geological इतिहास and orbit, have allowed जीवन to persist.
Estimates on how much longer the planet will be able to continue to support जीवन range from, to as long as.
धरती 's lithosphere is विभाजित into अनेक rigid खण्ड, or tectonic plates, that migrate आरपार the surface over periods of अनेक millions of सालो.
परिचय 71 % of the सतह is covered by नमक जल महासागर, with the remainder consisting of continents and islands which together have many lakes and अन्य sources of water कि contribute to the जलमंडल.
धरती 's डंडे are mostly covered साथ बर्फ that is the ठोस ice of the Antarctic ice sheet और the sea बर्फ that is the polar बर्फ पैक.
The ग्रह 's interior remains active, साथ a solid आयरन inner core, a liquid outer core कि generates the चुम्बकीय field, and a thick layer of अपेक्षाकृत solid mantle.
धरती gravitationally interacts with other objects in स्पेस, especially the सूर्य and the Moon.
During एक orbit around the सूर्य, the Earth rotates परिचय its own अक्ष 366.26 times, बनाना 365.26 सौर days, or एक sidereal साल.
the धरती 's अक्ष of रोटेशन is tilted 23.4° दूर इससे the perpendicular of its orbital plane, producing मौसमी variations on the ग्रह 's सतह साथ a काल of one तीव्र year ( 365.24 solar दिनों ).
The Moon is धरती 's only natural उपग्रह.
it began orbiting the धरती about.
The Moon 's गुरुत्वाकर्षक बातचीत with धरती stimulates ocean tides, stabilizes the axial tilt, and gradually slows the planet 's रोटेशन.
The ग्रह is घर to millions of प्रजाति of life, including humans.
Both the खनिज संसाधन of the planet and the उत्पाद of the biosphere contribute resources कि हैं used to support a global इंसान population.
These निवासियों are grouped into परिचय 200 स्वतंत्र sovereign states, जिससे interact through diplomacy, सफर, व्यापार, and military action.
Human cultures have developed अनेक views of the ग्रह, including its personification as a planetary deity, its shape as चपटा, its स्थिति as the center of the ब्रह्मांड, और in the आधुनिक gaia principle, as a single, self-regulating organism in इसके अपना right.
the Magician from the waite-smith tarot, जो is चित्रित using the वही टूल्स कि आधुनिक Wiccans use.
In the neopagan धर्म of Wicca, a range of magical टूल्स are used in अनुष्ठान practice.
Each of these tools रै अलग uses and associations, and are used primarily to direct magical energies.
वे are used at an altar, inside a जादू circle.
in परंपरागत Gardnerian Wicca, the tools हैं प्रायः divided into निजी टूल्स, which are लिये उपयोग by, और owned by, an व्यक्तिगत wiccan, और आउटटेक tools, प्रयुक्त collectively by the coven.
This practice may derive partly इससे Masonic traditions ( ऐसे as the उपयोग of the वर्गाकार और compasses ), इससे जिससे Wicca draws कुछ सामग्री, और partly from the संस्कार of the Hermetic अनुक्रम of the Golden Dawn.
The latter बना much use of material from medieval grimoires ऐसे as the कुंजी of Solomon, which रै many illustrations of magical tools and instructions लिये उनके तैयारी.
Typical eukaryotic cell.
सेल्यूलर respiration is the नियत of the metabolic reactions और processes that take प्लेस in the कोशिकाएं of organisms to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into एडीनोसिन ट्राइफॉस्फेट ( एटीपी ), and then release waste products.
the reactions शामिल in respiration are catabolic प्रतिक्रियाएँ, जिससे break large molecules into smaller ones, releasing उर्जा in the प्रक्रम as weak so-called `` high-energy '' bonds हैं replaced by stronger bonds in the products.
श्वसन is one of the key तरीके a cell gains useful energy to ईंधन सेल्यूलर कार्यकलाप.
सेल्यूलर respiration is considered an ऊष्माक्षेपी रेडॉक्स reaction.
The overall प्रतिक्रिया is broken into many छोटी ones जब it occurs in the देह, सबसे of which are redox reactions themselves.
Although technically, cellular respiration is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया, it clearly does not resemble one जब it occurs in a living कोशिका.
This difference is क्युकी it occurs in many पृथक steps.
While the overall reaction is a दहन reaction, no single प्रतिक्रिया that comprises it is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया.
nutrients that are commonly used by animal and संयंत्र cells in respiration include शुगर, अमीनो acids और fatty acids, and a common oxidizing agent ( इलेक्ट्रॉन acceptor ) is molecular oxygen ( o2 ).
The energy भंडारित in ATP ( its तीसरा फास्फेट group is weakly बंधुआ to the rest of the molecule और is cheaply टूटा allowing stronger bonds to form, thereby transferring उर्जा for use by the कोशिका ) can तब be used to drive प्रक्रियाओं requiring energy, including biosynthesis, locomotion or परिवहन of अणुओं आरपार cell membranes.
a stored-pressure fire extinguisher made by Amerex
a अंग्रेजों fire extinguisher with ID sign, कॉल point and fire action sign
a fire extinguisher, flame extinguisher, or बस an extinguisher, is an active fire protection device used to extinguish or कंट्रोल small fires, प्रायः in emergency परिस्थितियों.
it is नहीं intended लिये use on an out-of-control आग, such as one जिससे रै पहुँचे the ceiling, endangers the उपयोक्ता ( i.e., no escape रूट, धुँआ, विस्फोट hazard, इत्यादि. ), or otherwise requires the विशेषज्ञता of a आग department.
typically, a fire extinguisher consists of a hand-held cylindrical pressure vessel containing an agent which can be discharged to extinguish a fire.
In the United राज्य, आग extinguishers, in all इमारतें other than घरों, are generally जरूरी to be सर्विस और inspected by a Fire Protection सेवा company at least annually.
Some jurisdictions आवश्यकता more frequent service for fire extinguishers.
The servicer places a टैग on the extinguisher to indicate the प्रकार of service performed ( annual निरीक्षण, recharge, new fire extinguisher ) and when.
वहीँ are दो प्रमुख types of fire extinguishers : भंडारित दबाव और cartridge-operated.
in stored दबाव units, the expellant is stored in the same कक्ष as the firefighting agent itself.
Depending on the agent used, different propellants हैं used.
साथ शुष्क chemical extinguishers, नाइट्रोजन is typically used ; water and foam extinguishers typically उपयोग air.
Stored दबाव fire extinguishers हैं the सबसे आम प्रकार.
Cartridge-operated extinguishers contain the expellant gas in a separate कार्ट्रिज that is punctured prior to discharge, exposing the propellant to the extinguishing agent.
इस प्रकार is not as common, प्रयुक्त primarily in areas ऐसे as industrial facilities, जहाँ they प्राप्त higher-than-average उपयोग.
वे have the लाभ of simple and prompt रिचार्ज, allowing an operator to discharge the extinguisher, रिचार्ज it, and वापसी to the fire in a उचित amount of time.
Unlike stored दबाव types, these extinguishers उपयोग compressed carbon dioxide बजाय of नाइट्रोजन, although nitrogen cartridges हैं प्रयुक्त on low temperature ( -60 rated ) models.
Cartridge operated extinguishers are available in dry chemical और शुष्क चूर्ण प्रकार in the u.S. and in जल, wetting agent, foam, शुष्क chemical ( वर्ग ABC and b.c. ), and dry चूर्ण ( class D ) types in the rest of the world.
Fire extinguishers are further divided into handheld and cart-mounted, भी called wheeled extinguishers.
हैंडहेल्ड extinguishers तौल इससे 0.5 to 14 kilograms ( 1 to 30 पाउंड ), and हैं hence, easily पोर्टेबल by hand.
cart-mounted इकाई typically weigh 23+ kilograms ( 50+ pounds ).
ये wheeled मॉडल हैं सबसे commonly मिला at निर्माण साइट, airport runways, heliports, as खूब as docks and marinas.
Native अमेरिकी in the संयुक्त States हैं the स्वदेशी peoples in North America within the boundaries of the present-day महाद्वीपीय United राज्य, अलास्का, and the island राज्य of Hawaii.
They हैं composed of numerous, distinct Native अमरीकी tribes and जातीय समूह, many of which survive as intact राजनैतिक communities.
The शर्तें used to refer to देशी Americans have been controversial.
According to a 1995 u.S. Census census_bureau ब्यूरो census_bureau set of home interviews, सबसे of the respondents साथ an expressed वरीयता refer to themselves as American Indians ( or simply Indians ), और this term has been adopted by major newspapers and कुछ academic समूह ; however, this term does नहीं typically include देशी Hawaiians or certain Alaskan Natives, such as Aleut, Yup'ik, or इनुइट peoples.
Since the end of the 15th सदी, the माइग्रेशन of Europeans to the Americas, and their importation of Africans as slaves, रै led to centuries of conflict और समायोजन between बूढ़ा and नई World समाजों.
Europeans created सबसे of the early written ऐतिहासिक रिकार्ड about देशी Americans बाद the colonists ' immigration to the americas.
अनेक Native Americans जिया as hunter-gatherer societies और told their histories by oral traditions.
In many समूह, women carried आउट sophisticated cultivation of numerous किस्में of स्टेपल फसलों : मक्का, beans and squash.
The स्वदेशी cultures were quite different from those of the agrarian, proto-industrial, mostly ईसाई immigrants इससे western यूरेशिया.
अनेक Native cultures were matrilineal ; the people occupied lands लिये उपयोग of the संपूर्ण community, for शिकार or कृषि.
Europeans at that time had patriarchal संस्कृतियों and had विकसित concepts of व्यक्तिगत प्रॉपर्टी अधिकारों with आदर to जमीन कि were अत्यधिक different.
the मतभेद in cultures between the established Native Americans and अप्रवासी europeans, as well as shifting alliances among different राष्ट्र of प्रत्येक संस्कृति through the सदियां, caused extensive political tension, जातीय violence and सोशल disruption.
The देशी अमेरिकी suffered ऊँची fatalities from the contact with infectious Eurasian diseases, to which they था no acquired प्रतिरक्षण.
Epidemics बाद European सम्पर्क caused the greatest loss of life for indigenous populations.
estimates of the pre-Columbian population of कया today constitutes the U.S. vary significantly, ranging from 1 million to 18 लाख.
बाद the colonies revolted against Great ब्रिटेन और established the United राज्य of अमेरिका, President George वॉशिंगटन और Henry Knox conceived of the विचार of `` civilizing '' Native Americans in तैयारी for assimilation as U.S. नागरिकों.
सम्मिलन ( whether voluntary as with the choctaw, or forced ) became a consistent policy through अमरीकी administrations.
During the 19th सदी, the ideology of manifest नियति became integral to the American राष्ट्रवादी गति.
Expansion of european-american populations to the west after the अमरीकी Revolution resulted in increasing दबाव on Native American lands, warfare between the groups, and rising tensions.
In 1830, the U.S. कॉंग्रेस passed the Indian Removal अधिनियम, authorizing the government to relocate देशी अमेरिकी इससे उनके homelands भीतर स्थापित states to lands west of the Mississippi River, accommodating European-American विस्तार.
the पहला European Americans to एनकाउंटर the western आंतरिक tribes यहूद generally fur traders और trappers.
वहीँ यहूद also जेसुइट प्रचारकों active in the Northern Tier.
as संयुक्त States expansion पहुँचे into the अमरीकी वेस्ट, settler and खनिक migrants आए into increasing विरोध साथ the ग्रेट Basin, Great Plains, और other Western tribes.
ये were complex nomadic cultures based on horse संस्कृति और seasonal bison hunting.
वे carried आउट strong resistance to United States incursions in the decades बाद the American सिविल War, in a श्रेणी of Indian Wars, which यहूद बारंबार up जबतक the 1890s, but continued into the 20th century.
the transcontinental रेलरोड brought more non-natives into tribal land in the वेस्ट.
Over समय, the U.S. मजबूर a श्रेणी of treaties and land cessions by the tribes, and स्थापित reservations लिये उन्हें in अनेक western राज्य.
U.S. agents encouraged Native अमेरिकी to adopt European-style farming और similar pursuits, but European-American agricultural technology of the time was अपर्याप्त for प्रायः dry reservation lands.
In 1924, Native Americans जो यहूद not already u.S. नागरिकों were granted citizenship by कॉंग्रेस.
Contemporary Native Americans have a अद्वितीय संबंध with the United States क्युकी they may be सदस्यों of राष्ट्र, जनजातियों, or bands with sovereignty और treaty rights.
सेंट्रल अमेरिका ( ) is the सेंट्रल geographic region of the americas.
it is the southernmost, isthmian portion of the North अमरीकी महाद्वीप, which connects साथ दक्षिण अमेरिका on the southeast.
When considered part of the एकीकृत continental मॉडल, it is considered a subcontinent.
Central America consists of seven countries : बेलीज़, Costa Rica, El साल्वाडोर, Guatemala, Honduras, निकारागुआ, and Panama.
Central अमेरिका is भाग of the Mesoamerican biodiversity hotspot, जिससे extends इससे northern Guatemala through सेंट्रल Panama.
It is bordered by Mexico to the north, the caribbean Sea to the ईस्ट, the North Pacific समंदर to the वेस्ट, and Colombia to the south-east.
Central America is an क्षेत्रफल of, or almost 0.1 % of the Earth 's सतह.
as of 2009, इसके population थी estimated at 41,739,000.
It रै a density of 77 people per square kilometer.
Scrubs is an अमरीकी चिकित्सा comedy-drama टेलीविज़न श्रेणी created by विधेयक Lawrence कि aired इससे October 2, 2001 to कूच 17, 2010 on एनबीसी and बाद ABC.
The श्रेणी follows the lives of employees at the fictional पवित्र Heart teaching hospital.
the शीर्षक is a play on surgical scrubs और a term लिये a low-ranking person because at the beginning of the श्रेणी, सबसे of the प्रमुख वर्ण were चिकित्सा interns.
the श्रेणी सुविधाएँ fast-paced पटकथा, slapstick, and surreal vignettes प्रस्तुत mostly as the daydreams of the central character, dr. जॉन `` J.D. ''
Dorian, जो is played by Zach braff.
Actors starring alongside Braff in the पहला eight seasons शामिल Sarah chalke, डोनाल्ड faison, neil Flynn, Ken Jenkins, जॉन C. mcginley and जुडी Reyes.
the श्रेणी has भी प्रदर्शित multiple guest दिखावे by फिल्मी अभिनेताओं, such as Brendan Fraser, हीथर ग्राहम, and Colin farrell.
In the ninth ऋतु, अनेक new डाल सदस्यों were introduced and the show सेटिंग moved इससे a हॉस्पिटल to a medical स्कूल.
आउट of the असली डाल, only Braff, Faison and mcginley became regular cast सदस्यों, while the अन्य with the exception of रेयेस, made guest दिखावे.
Braff appeared in six episodes of the नवीं season before दूँ.
Kerry Bishé, Eliza Coupe, डेव Franco and माइकल mosley became श्रेणी regulars साथ Bishé becoming the दिखाएँ 's new narrator.
Scrubs premiered on October 2, 2001 on एनबीसी.
The श्रेणी received a Peabody Award in 2006.
During the seventh season, NBC announced that it होता not renew the show.
shortly बाद the सातवाँ season finale, ABC announced it had picked up the आठवीं ऋतु of the श्रेणी, जिससे began जनवरी 6, 2009.
The ninth season premiered on दिसम्बर 1, 2009.
On May 14, 2010, एबीसी announced it had officially रद्द Scrubs.
An 1817 boulton & Watt beam झोंके engine, used in Netherton at the ironworks of M W grazebrook.
Re-erected on the A38 ( m ) in Birmingham, UK
A steam engine is a heat engine that performs mechanical work using steam as इसके working fluid.
Using खौलते water to produce mechanical motion goes back परिचय 2,000 years, but जल्दी devices यहूद not practical.
Since the late 1700s steam इंजन have become a major सोर्स of mechanical power.
The first अनुप्रयोग यहूद removing जल इससे mines.
In 1781 James वाट patented a steam इंजन that produced continuous rotative motion.
These 10 hp इंजन enabled a wide दायरा of manufacturing machinery to be powered.
The engines could be sited anywhere कि water and कोयले or wood ईंधन could be obtained.
By 1883, engines that could provide 10,000 hp had become feasible.
भाप engines could also be लागू to वाहनों ऐसे as कर्षण इंजन और the रेल locomotives which are commonly just पुकारा भाप इंजन outside अमेरिका.
the stationary steam इंजन थी a कुंजी घटक of the औद्योगिक Revolution, allowing कारखानों to locate जहाँ water power थी unavailable.
Today भाप turbines generate परिचय 90 % of the electric power in the संयुक्त राज्य using a किस्में of heat sources.
Steam engines हैं external दहन इंजन, where the working fluid is पृथक इससे the दहन products.
non-combustion ऊष्मा स्त्रोत ऐसे as सौर शक्ति, nuclear power or geothermal energy may be used.
The ideal ऊष्मागतिक साईकिल प्रयुक्त to analyze this process is पुकारा the rankine cycle.
In the साईकिल, जल is heated into steam in a बॉयलर जबतक it reaches a high दबाव.
जब expanded through pistons or turbines, mechanical work is done.
the reduced-pressure steam is then condensed and उत्तेजित वापस into the boiler.
in सामान्य उपयोग, the term steam engine can refer to either the integrated steam plants ( including boilers etc. ) such as railway भाप इंजनों and पोर्टेबल engines, or may refer to the पिस्टन or टर्बाइन मशीनरी alone, as in the बीम engine and stationary steam engine.
Specialized डिवाइस such as steam hammers और steam pile drivers are dependent on steam supplied इससे a पृथक बॉयलर.
A मिल engine from Stott पार्क Bobbin Mill, Cumbria, इंग्लैण्ड
A steam locomotive in जर्मनी.this क्लास of engine was built in 1942 – 1950 and संचालित commercially जबतक 1988.
`` मूव Bitch '' ( संपादित संस्करण titled `` Move B***h '' or simply `` मूव '' ) is the तीसरा आधिकारिक सिंगल from rapper ludacris ' album Word of mouf.
The सिंगल सुविधाएँ Mystikal and I-20.
the single पहुँचे # 10 on the Billboard Hot 100 बनाना it Ludacris 's पहला top टेन hit on the चार्ट, it also पहुँचे # 3 on Hot रैप ट्रैक्स और # 3 on hot R & B/Hip-Hop singles & Tracks.
Puerto rican reggaeton duo Maicol & Manuel sampled the song on `` होय Me levanté '' on their 2002 release Yakaleo.
The सोंग is भी featured in episode 2, Series एक of अंग्रेजों teen comedy/drama Skins.
The song was also प्रयुक्त by World Wrestling Entertainment superstar Montel Vontavious Porter during उसके short कार्यावधि in रिंग of Honor.
It थी also used for April शिकारी in various स्वतंत्र circuits.
It was featured in the फिल्म atl starring T.I., and ' hancock, ' although in the latter, the clean version was used.
A snippet of the song is निभाई during ट्रैफ़िक reports on many radio स्टेशन, प्रायः carrying an urban/hip-hop स्वरूप.
Retired NBA star and now ESPN analyst Jalen Rose is प्रदर्शित in the music video.
the सोंग has been covered by चट्टान band Start Trouble, on their एल्बम प्रत्येक Solution रै इसके प्रॉब्लम.
it थी प्रदर्शित on अंग्रेजों sitcom The Inbetweeners जब the characters jay और Neil took होगा on a 'pussy patrol ' in Jay 's रेड Nissan micra.
it was sampled by Girl Talk on the first track of his album सब दिन, `` Oh No ''.
Elizabeth ii ( एलिज़ाबेथ Alexandra Mary ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the संवैधानिक monarch of 16 sovereign states, ज्ञात as the Commonwealth realms, and उनके territories and dependencies, और head of the 54-member राष्ट्रमंडल of राष्ट्र.
She is परम् Governor of the Church of इंग्लैण्ड and, in some of उसके realms, carries the शीर्षक of Defender of the आस्था as भाग of her full शीर्षक.
on उसके accession on 6 February 1952, एलिज़ाबेथ became Head of the राष्ट्रमंडल and महारानी regnant of सात स्वतंत्र Commonwealth देशों : the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, नई Zealand, South Africa, Pakistan और Ceylon.
इससे 1956 to 1992, the क्रमांक of her realms varied as territories gained independence and some realms became republics.
at present, in addition to the पहला four aforementioned देशों, Elizabeth is महारानी of Jamaica, Barbados, the Bahamas, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, the सुलेमान आइलैंड्स, तुवालू, संत Lucia, संत विंसेंट and the grenadines, Belize, Antigua and बारबूडा and संत Kitts and नेविस.
Her शासनकाल of सालो is currently the second longest for a British monarch ; only Queen Victoria रै reigned longer at over 63 सालो.
एलिज़ाबेथ was born in London and शिक्षित privately at home.
Her पिता acceded to the सिंहासन as George vi in 1936 on the abdication of his bhai Edward VIII, from जिससे time वो was the वारिस presumptive.
She began to undertake public duties during the Second World युद्ध, in जिससे वो परोसा in the Auxiliary Territorial Service.
In 1947, she married Prince Philip, Duke of एडिनबर्ग, with जिसको she has four children : चार्ल्स, ऐनी, Andrew, and Edward.
उसके coronation सेवा took place in 1953 and was the first to be televised.
The महारानी 's many ऐतिहासिक visits और meetings शामिल a state visit to the गणतंत्र of आयरलैंड and reciprocal visits to और from the पोप.
the Queen has seen major संवैधानिक changes in उसके realms, ऐसे as devolution in the संयुक्त Kingdom and the patriation of the Canadian संविधान.
Times of निजी significance have शामिल the births and विवाह of her children, the births of उसके grandchildren, the investiture of the प्रिंस of वेल्स, and the celebration of milestones such as her चांदी, Golden, and Diamond Jubilees in 1977, 2002, and 2012, क्रमशः.
Major कार्यक्रम in the महारानी 's शासनकाल have शामिल the परेशानियों in Northern Ireland, the Falklands War, wars with Iraq और the युद्ध in Afghanistan.
वहीँ have been times of personal विषाद for her which शामिल the मौत of her father at 56, the हत्या of Prince Philip 's uncle, Lord माउंटबेटन, the breakdown of her children 's विवाह in 1992 ( a साल deemed उसके annus horribilis ), the मौत in 1997 of her पूर्व daughter-in-law, डायना, Princess of वेल्स, और the deaths of her mother और sister in 2002.
the Queen has occasionally faced severe press आलोचना of the royal परिवार और रिपब्लिकन sentiments, but support लिये the monarchy और उसके निजी लोकप्रियता remain high.
christianity is the largest religion listed by australians in the national जनसांख्यिकी.
In the 2011 जनसांख्यिकी, 61.1 % of Australians यहूद listed as Christian.
Australia रै no official state धर्म और the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई Constitution protects स्वतंत्रता of धर्म.
the presence of Christianity in Australia began with the आगमन of the First Fleet of British convicts in 1788.
the धर्म grew to account for 96.1 % of the नेशनल population at the time of the Federation of ऑस्ट्रेलिया in 1901.
The Anglican Church of Australia ( formerly known as the गिरिजाघर of England in Australia ) remained the largest denomination जबतक 1986, when it थी surpassed by the Roman कैथोलिक Church in ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
Post-war multiculturalism and a decline in धार्मिक observance among कुछ sections of the population have diversified the demographics of धर्म in Australia.
Of the roughly 61 % identifying as Christian in 2011, the largest denominations were either Roman Catholic ( 25 % ) or anglican ( 17 % ), with the third largest denomination होने the 5 % संबद्ध with the Uniting Church in Australia.
Post-war immigration has grown the numbers belonging to चर्च like the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of Australia and there are large and growing Pentecostal groups, such as सिडनी 's Hillsong Church.
The festivals of ईस्टर और क्रिसमस are पब्लिक छुट्टियाँ in Australia.
around a quarter of students attend church स्कूलों and Christian organisations are अग्रणी non-government प्रदाताओं of health and welfare सेवाएं through organisations like Catholic Health ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Anglicare, UnitingCare Australia, the Salvation फौज and St Vincent de पॉल समाज.
historically significant Australian ईसाइयों have शामिल Rev dr John dunmore Lang, संत मरियम MacKillop, कैथरीन Helen Spence, Pastor David Unaipon, the रेवरेंड John flynn and पादरी Sir Doug Nicholls.
High profile contemporary Australian ईसाइयों include : टिम कॉस्टेलो बैपटिस्ट मंत्री और current सीईओ of World Vision ऑस्ट्रेलिया, फ़्रैंक ब्रेनन, जेसुइट human अधिकारों lawyer, कार्डिनल जार्ज Pell, Catholic Archbishop of Sydney, Phillip Aspinall the current anglican Primate and Archbishop of Brisbane, Kevin Rudd, पूर्व Labor Prime मंत्री, and Tony एबॉट, नेता लिये the Federal Opposition उदार पार्टी.
चार्टर creating Collegiate स्कूल, जिससे became Yale College, अक्तूबर 9, 1701
Yale विश्वविद्यालयों is a private Ivy League research university located in नई Haven, कनेक्टिकट.
संस्थापित in 1701 in the उपनिवेश of Connecticut, the university is the third-oldest institution of उच्चतर education in the संयुक्त States.
originally chartered as the `` Collegiate स्कूल '', the संस्था traces इसके roots to 17th-century clergymen who sought to establish a college to ट्रैन clergy और राजनैतिक leaders for the उपनिवेश.
in 1718, the College was renamed `` Yale कॉलेज '' to honor a तोहफा from Elihu yale, a governor of the British ईस्ट इण्डिया कम्पनी.
In 1861, the ग्रैजुएट School of कला and Sciences became the first U.S. संस्था to award the phd. Yale became a founding सदस्य of the संघ of American Universities in 1900.
yale College थी रूपांतरित, शुरूआत in the 1930s, through the establishment of residential colleges : 12 now exist and two अधिक are planned.
Yale employs over 1,100 faculty to teach and सलाह about 5,300 undergraduate and 6,100 graduate and पेशेवर विद्यार्थी.
Almost all tenured professors सिखा undergraduate पाठ्यक्रम, more than 2,000 of which हैं offered annually.
The विश्वविद्यालयों 's एसेट include an endowment valued at $ 19.4 billion, the second-largest of कोई अकादमिक संस्था in the संसार.
Yale 's system of more than two dozen libraries holds 12.5 million आयतन.
49 नोबेल Laureates have been संबद्ध with the University as विद्यार्थी, संकाय, and staff.
Yale रै उत्पादित अनेक notable alumni, including five u.S. Presidents, 19 U.S. Supreme अदालत Justices, और अनेक foreign heads of state.
At the graduate level, Yale Law School, Yale स्कूल of Art, और Yale स्कूल of Drama हैं consistently ranked the शीर्ष programs in their field.
Yale विधि स्कूल is the सबसे selective विधि स्कूल in the United States.
Yale विद्यार्थी compete intercollegiately as the Yale Bulldogs in the NCAA Division I Ivy लीग.
The oldest intercollegiate एथलेटिक event in the United States is the yale-harvard regatta.
artemisia tridentata ( `` बिग sagebrush '' or `` sagebrush '' ) is an खुशबूदार shrub इससे the family Asteraceae, which grows in arid और semi-arid शर्तें, throughout a दायरा of cold मरुस्थल, steppe, and mountain habitats in the Intermountain West of North अमेरिका.
The vernacular name `` sagebrush '' is भी प्रयुक्त for several related members of the genus Artemisia, ऐसे as California Sagebrush ( Artemisia californica ).
Big Sagebrush and अन्य Artemisia प्रजाति are the dominant plants आरपार large portions of the ग्रेट जलाशय, covering कुछ 422,000 वर्गाकार miles in 11 पश्चिमी U.S. & कनाडाई राज्य.
it is the state flower of Nevada.
sagebrush provides food and habitat for a किस्में of species, such as sage grouse, pronghorn antelope, gray vireo, सानो rabbit, and खच्चर हिरण.
बिग sagebrush was प्रयुक्त as an herbal आयुर्विज्ञान by देशी अमेरिकी throughout the Intermountain वेस्ट of North america—especially लिये preventing संक्रमण in wounds, stopping internal bleeding, and treating headaches and colds.
chemically, the active medicinal constituents शामिल camphor, terpenoids, and tannins.
अनेक major threats मौजूद to ऋषि ब्रश ecosystems, including human settlements, परिवर्तन to agricultural जमीन, livestock grazing, invasive plant प्रजाति, wildfires, and जलवायु change.
याहू ! Mail is a free email service offered by the अमरीकी search engine कम्पनी याहू !
it was launched in 1997, and, according to comScore, याहू ! Mail is the third-largest web-based ईमेल service with 281 लाख उपयोक्ता as of December 2012.
फिलहाल, याहू ! offers three संस्करण of Yahoo ! Mail.
The traditional `` याहू ! मेल Classic '' continues the availability of the original इंटरफ़ेस introduced in 1997.
A संस्करण introduced in 2005 शामिल a new Ajax interface, drag-and-drop features, improved search functionality, कुंजीपटल shortcuts, पता auto-complete, tabs, और other अद्यतनीकृत सुविधाएँ.
In October 2010, Yahoo ! released a बीटा संस्करण of Yahoo ! Mail, which included सुधार to the design, performance, search functionality, और Facebook integration.
in May 2011, beta testing लिये the नई संस्करण stopped, and it became the डिफॉल्ट interface for याहू ! Mail.
in जल्दी 2008, याहू ! began offering unlimited mail storage to इसके उपयोक्ता in response to heated competition in the free web-mail market segment.
on June 27, 2009, Yahoo ! मेसेंजर थी integrated साथ Yahoo ! Mail.
टकोमा (, ) is a mid-sized शहरी port नगर और the county सीट of Pierce County, Washington, संयुक्त राज्य.
The नगर is on Washington 's Puget ध्वनि, दक्षिणपश्चिम of Seattle, northeast of the state capital, ओलंपिया, और northwest of Mount rainier नेशनल Park.
The जनसांख्यिकी was 198,397, according to the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
टकोमा is the second-largest नगर in the Puget ध्वनि area and the तीसरा largest in the राज्य.
टकोमा भी serves as the center of कारोबार activity for the दक्षिण Sound प्रदेश, which has a जनसांख्यिकी of around 1 लाख लोगों.
टकोमा adopted इसके name after the nearby Mount Rainier, originally called माउंट Tahoma.
It is known as the `` City of नियति '' क्युकी the क्षेत्रफल was चुनी to be the western टर्मिनस of the Northern प्रशांत Railroad in the लेट 19th सदी.
The decision of the रेलरोड was influenced by टकोमा 's neighboring deep-water हार्बर, Commencement खाड़ी.
By connecting the खाड़ी साथ the रेलरोड Tacoma 's motto became `` When rails मिलें sails. ''
Today Commencement Bay serves the Port of टकोमा, a बीच of international trade on the प्रशांत Coast और Washington state 's largest port.
Like most सेंट्रल cities, Tacoma suffered a prolonged decline in the mid-20th century as a result of suburbanization and divestment.
चूंकि the 1990s, developments in the downtown कोर include the University of वॉशिंगटन टकोमा ; Tacoma कड़ी, the first आधुनिक इलेक्ट्रिक लाइट रेल service in the state ; the राज्य 's highest घनत्व of art और इतिहास museums ; and a restored urban waterfront, the thea foss Waterway.
With a long इतिहास of blue-collar labor politics — from the railroad मजदूर of the 19th century, to the longshoremen of the 20th century, to the मजदूर तैयार मजदूर of today — Tacoma रै long महरूम ज्ञात for its rough, किरकिरी चित्र.
A सोंग परिचय टकोमा, `` Thrice All अमरीकी '', by American singer-songwriter and former resident neko मामला, describes it as `` a dusty old jewel in the दक्षिण Puget ध्वनि / where the कारखानों churn / and the timber 's all cut bas ''.
Tacoma-Pierce County has महरूम named one of the सबसे livable areas in the देश.
Tacoma was भी recently सूचीबद्ध as the 19th most walkable नगर in the country.
in कंट्रास्ट, the city is भी क्रमित as the सबसे stressed-out नगर in the country in a 2004 survey.
in 2006, women 's पत्रिका स्वः named Tacoma the `` सबसे Sexually Healthy नगर '' in the संयुक्त States.
in 2012, The Advocate gave Tacoma the शीर्षक of `` Gayest नगर in America '', in part because of the विशाल विविधता of पब्लिक कार्यालयों आयोजित, और Washington State गुजर a विधेयक in 2012 allowing LGBT couples to निकाह.
Tacoma is famous लिये the 1940 पतन of the Tacoma narrows सेतु.
chula Vista ( ; ) is the second largest city in the San डिएगो metropolitan क्षेत्रफल, the सातवाँ largest city in दक्षिणी California, the fourteenth largest नगर in the राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, और the 77th-largest city in the United राज्य.
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 243,916 as of the 2010 census.
Located just from शहर सैन डिएगो and इससे the Mexican border in the South Bay region of the metropolitan area, the city is at the center of one of the richest आर्थिक और culturally विविध zones in the संयुक्त States.
chula विस्टा is so नामित क्युकी of its scenic location between the सैन Diego Bay और तटीय mountain foothills.
संस्थापित in the जल्दी 19th century, fast जनसांख्यिकी विकास has recently महरूम observed in the city.
As the second largest city in San डिएगो काउंटी, chula Vista has quickly become a गंतव्य popular to अनेक tourists.
स्तिथ in the city is one of America 's few year-round संयुक्त States Olympic Training centers और लोकप्रिय पर्यटक destinations शामिल Cricket बेतार Amphitheater, the Chula Vista marina, और the Chula Vista Nature Center.
Metes and bounds is a प्रणाली or विधि of describing जमीन, real property ( in contrast to निजी property ) or real estate.
The system रै been प्रयुक्त in इंग्लैण्ड for अनेक सदियां, and is स्टिल used वहीँ in the definition of general सीमाएँ.
By custom, it was applied in the original तेरह colonies कि became the संयुक्त राज्य, और in many अन्य land jurisdictions based on English आम law.
typically the प्रणाली उपयोग physical सुविधाएँ of the local भूगोल, along with directions और दूरियाँ, to define और describe the boundaries of a parcel of land.
The boundaries are वर्णित in a कार्यशील prose style, working around the parcel in अनुक्रम, from a point of शुरूआत, returning back to the same point ; compare with the मौखिक ritual of beating the bounds.
it may include references to अन्य adjoining parcels ( and their स्वामी ), और it, in turn, could भी be referred to in बाद surveys.
At the समय the वर्णन is compiled, it may have महरूम marked on the मैदान with स्थाई monuments placed जहाँ there यहूद no suitable natural monuments.
the term `` metes '' refers to a boundary defined by the measurement of each सीधा run, निर्दिष्ट by a अलहदा between the terminal अंक, and an अभिविन्यास or direction.
a direction may be a simple compass bearing, or a precise orientation संकल्पित by सटीक सर्वेक्षण methods.
the term `` bounds '' refers to a more general boundary वर्णन, such as along a certain watercourse, a stone wall, an adjoining public road रास्ता, or an existing building.
The system is प्रायः used to define larger pieces of property ( e.g. farms ), और political subdivisions ( e.g. कस्बा boundaries ) where precise definition is not required or होता be दूर too महंगी, or previously designated सीमाएँ can be incorporated into the वर्णन.
सर इसहाक़ Newton ( 25 दिसम्बर 164220 कूच 1727 ) was an अंग्रेज़ी physicist और mathematician who is widely regarded as एक of the most influential वैज्ञानिकों of all समय और as a कुंजी figure in the scientific क्रान्ति.
His book philosophiæ naturalis प्रिन्सिपिया Mathematica ( `` गणितीय Principles of Natural Philosophy '' ), पहला published in 1687, रखी the foundations for सबसे of classical mechanics.
न्यूटन also बना seminal contributions to optics और साझा क्रेडिट साथ Gottfried लैबनिट्ज़ लिये the आविष्कार of the infinitesimal calculus.
Newton 's प्रिन्सिपिया formulated the laws of motion और सार्वभौमिक gravitation कि वर्चस्व scientists ' view of the physical universe for the अगला three centuries.
it also demonstrated that the गति of objects on the Earth and that of celestial लाशें could be described by the same principles.
By deriving Kepler 's कानून of planetary motion from उसके mathematical description of गम्भीरता, Newton removed the last संदेह परिचय the वैध of the heliocentric मॉडल of the cosmos.
न्यूटन built the first practical reflecting telescope और विकसित a सिद्धान्त of colour आधारित on the observation that a प्रिज़्म decomposes white light into the many रंग of the दृश्य वर्णक्रम.
He भी formulated an अनुभवजन्य law of cooling and पढ़ाई the गति of sound.
In addition to his कार्य on the calculus, as a गणितज्ञ न्यूटन contributed to the study of शक्ति श्रेणी, generalised the द्विपद theorem to non-integer exponents, और developed Newton 's method for approximating the जड़ें of a फलन.
न्यूटन was a fellow of Trinity College and the second lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैम्ब्रिज.
he was a devout but unorthodox Christian और, unusually लिये a member of the कैम्ब्रिज faculty, he refused to लो holy orders in the गिरिजाघर of England, शायद क्युकी he privately अस्वीकृत the doctrine of trinitarianism.
In addition to his work on the गणितीय sciences, न्यूटन also dedicated much of his time to the पढ़ाई of alchemy and biblical chronology, लकिन सबसे of his work in those areas remained unpublished जबतक long बाद his मौत.
In his later life, Newton became president of the Royal Society.
he also served the British सरकारी as Warden और Master of the royal Mint.
Prof. वाल्टर Lewin explains Newton 's विधि of gravitation in MIT course 8.01
satellites and projectiles all obey Newton 's विधि of gravitation
न्यूटन 's law of सार्वभौमिक gravitation states that प्रत्येक point mass in the ब्रह्मांड attracts प्रत्येक अन्य पाइंट mass with a force that is directly आंशिक to the product of their masses और inversely आंशिक to the square of the distance between उन्हें.
( Separately it was shown कि large spherically सममित masses attract और हैं आकर्षित as if सब उनके द्रव्यमान were concentrated at उनके centers. )
इस is a general physical विधि derived from अनुभवजन्य observations by what न्यूटन called प्रेरण.
It is a भाग of classical यांत्रिकी and थी formulated in Newton 's work Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia mathematica ( `` the Principia '' ), first published on 5 July 1687.
( When न्यूटन 's book was प्रस्तुत in 1686 to the royal समाज, रॉबर्ट hooke बना a claim कि न्यूटन था प्राप्त the inverse square विधि from him – देखिए History section नीचे. )
In आधुनिक language, the law states the following:
Assuming SI units, F is measured in newtons ( N ), m1 and m2 in गामा ( kg ), r in meters ( m ), और the निरंतर g is लगभग बराबर to.
the value of the निरंतर G was पहला accurately determined from the results of the कैवेंडिश प्रयोग conducted by the British scientist Henry Cavendish in 1798, हालांकि Cavendish किया not खुद गणना a numerical value for g.
This प्रयोग was also the पहला परीक्षण of Newton 's theory of gravitation between masses in the प्रयोगशाला.
It took place 111 years after the publication of न्यूटन 's Principia and 71 years after Newton 's death, so none of Newton 's calculations could use the value of g ; instead he could तभी calculate a फ़ोर्स relative to another force.
Newton 's विधि of gravitation resembles Coulomb 's law of electrical forces, जिससे is प्रयुक्त to calculate the परिमाण of विद्युत फ़ोर्स between दो charged bodies.
Both are inverse-square laws, in जिससे फ़ोर्स is inversely आंशिक to the square of the अलहदा between the bodies.
Coulomb 's Law has the उत्पाद of two आरोप in place of the product of the masses, और the electrostatic constant in place of the gravitational constant.
Newton 's law रै since been superseded by Einstein 's theory of सामान्य आपेक्षिकता, but it continues to be used as an बेहतरीन approximation of the effects of गम्भीरता.
Relativity is जरूरी only when there is a need for extreme परिशुद्धता, or when dealing with gravitation for extremely massive and dense वस्तुएँ.
श्वेत और रेड flags, representing इराकी और American मौतों, sit in the ग्रास चतुष्कोण of the Valley Library on the Corvallis, Oregon, campus of Oregon State University.
As भाग of the traveling Iraq देह गिनती exhibit from 2008 to 2009 ( not सम्बन्धित to इराकी देह गिनती project ), the ध्वज उद्देश्य to `` raise awareness of the human लागत of the इराकी War. ''
( May 2008 )
हताहत of the conflict in Iraq since 2003 ( शुरूआत साथ the 2003 invasion of Iraq, और continuing with the ensuing occupation of Iraq, as well as the activities of the विभिन्न armed groups operating in the country ) have come in अनेक forms, और the accuracy of the सूचना available on different types of Iraq युद्ध हताहत varies greatly.
The तालिका below summarizes various estimates of the Iraqi casualty figures.
For troops in the U.S.-led multinational गठबन्धन, the मौत टोल is carefully tracked and updated daily, और the names and photographs of those killed in कार्रवाई as well as in दुर्घटनाओं have महरूम प्रकाशित widely.
A कुल of 4,486 U.S. सैनिको were मारे in इराकी between 2003 and 2012.
regarding the इराकी, however, सूचना on both military और civilian casualties is दोनो less precise और less consistent.
Estimates of casualty स्तर are उपलब्धियाँ from reporters on the scene, इससे officials of involved संगठन, and from groups that summarize information on incidents reported in the न्यूज media.
The शब्द `` casualties `` in its सबसे general sense शामिल the घायल as खूब as the dead.
खाते of the क्रमांक of coalition wounded vary widely, partly because it is नहीं obvious what चाहिए be गिने : चाहिए only those चोटों गंभीर पर्याप्त to put a सिपाही आउट of commission be शामिल ?
do बीमारियों or injuries caused by दुर्घटनाओं count, or चाहिए the फ़ोकस be restricted to wounds caused by hostile सगाई ?
स्त्रोत using अलग definitions may arrive at very अलग संख्याएँ, और sometimes the precise परिभाषा is not clearly निर्दिष्ट.
asalto al coche ( Robbery of the coach ), by Francisco de Goya
A highwayman was a thief और brigand जो preyed on travellers.
This type of outlaw usually travelled and robbed by घोड़ा, as compared to a footpad who travelled and robbed on पैर.
आरोहित लुटेरों were widely माना to be socially superior to footpads.
ऐसे robbers संचालित in ग्रेट ब्रिटेन and आयरलैंड from the Elizabethan era जबतक the जल्दी 19th century.
The शब्द highwayman is पहला ज्ञात to be प्रयुक्त in the year 1617 ; other euphemisms शामिल `` knights of the सड़क '' और `` gentlemen of the सड़क. ''
Two शर्तें applied to 19th-century North अमरीकी highwaymen यहूद road agents in some उदाहरण लिये पहाड़ डाकुओं जबकि in other मामले the term is Rlallaala लिये mountain-based ruffians.
In the वही time period in Australia, they were ज्ञात as bushrangers.
earvin `` जादू '' जॉनसन, Jr. ( born August 14, 1959 ) is a retired अमरीकी professional बास्केट player who निभाई पाइंट गार्ड for the Los एंजिल्स Lakers of the National बास्केट Association ( NBA ).
After जीतना championships in high स्कूल और college, Johnson थी चयनित पहला overall in the 1979 एनबीए Draft by the Lakers.
he won a championship and an NBA फाइनल सबसे Valuable Player पुरस्कार in उसके रुकी ऋतु, and won four more championships साथ the लेकर्स during the 1980s.
जॉनसन retired abruptly in 1991 बाद announcing that he था contracted HIV, लकिन returned to play in the 1992 all-star Game, winning the All-Star mvp Award.
बाद विरोध इससे his fellow players, he रिटायर्ड again for four सालो, लकिन लौटे in 1996, at आयु 36, to खेल 32 खेल for the Lakers पहले retiring for the तीसरा और फाइनल समय.
जॉनसन 's career उपलब्धियाँ include three NBA MVP Awards, nine एनबीए Finals appearances, बारह all-star games, और ten all-nba पहला and Second टोली nominations.
He led the लीग in regular-season assists चार टाइम्स, and is the NBA 's all-time leader in औसत assists प्रति game, at 11.2.
जॉनसन थी a member of the `` Dream Team ``, the u.S. basketball team that won the Olympic gold पदक in 1992.
After leaving the NBA in 1992, जॉनसन formed the Magic Johnson all-stars, a barnstorming team that travelled around the संसार playing exhibition खेल.
जॉनसन was honored as one of the 50 महानतम खिलाड़ी in NBA History in 1996, and enshrined in the Basketball Hall of कीर्ति in 2002.
He थी rated the greatest NBA point guard of all समय by ईएसपीएन in 2007.
उसके दोस्ती and फंसने with बोस्टन Celtics star लैरी बर्ड, whom he faced in the 1979 ncaa finals और three NBA चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी, were well documented.
चूंकि his retirement, Johnson रै been an एडवोकेट लिये hiV/ AIDS prevention and सुरक्षित sex, as well as an entrepreneur, philanthropist, प्रसारणकर्ता और प्रेरक speaker.
Johnson was a part-owner of the लेकर्स for अनेक सालो, and was part of a group that खरीदा the Los एंजिल्स Dodgers in 2012.
Allium cells in different phases of the cell साईकिल
The cells of eukaryotes ( बाएँ ) and prokaryotes ( सही )
The cell is the basic structural, functional और biological ईकाई of all known जीना जीवों.
It is the smallest ईकाई of life कि is classified as a जीना thing ( except वायरस, जिससे consists तभी इससे dna/rna covered by प्रोटीन and lipids ), and is प्रायः पुकारा the भवन ब्लाक of life.
it consists of a जीवद्रव्य enclosed within a झिल्ली, which contains many biomolecules such as प्रोटीन and nucleic acids.
Organisms can be वर्गीकृत as unicellular ( consisting of a सिंगल cell ; including सबसे bacteria ) or बहुकोशिकीय ( including plants and animals ).
जबकि the क्रमांक of cells in पौधे and animals varies from प्रजाति to species, इंसानो contain about 100 खरब ( 1014 ) cells.
सबसे plant and एनिमल कोशिकाएं हैं between 1 and 100 micrometres और therefore are दृश्य तभी अंतर्गत the सूक्ष्मदर्शी.
The cell was खोजा by Robert Hooke in 1665.
the कोशिका theory, पहला विकसित in 1839 by matthias Jakob Schleiden and Theodor Schwann, राज्य that सब organisms are composed of one or more cells, कि all कोशिकाएं come from preexisting cells, that vital कृत्यों of an organism occur भीतर कोशिकाएं, और कि all cells contain the hereditary सूचना जरुरी लिये regulating cell कृत्यों और लिये transmitting information to the अगला पीढी of कोशिकाएं.
Cells emerged on planet Earth at least 4.0–4.3 billion years पहले.
The word cell comes इससे the लैटिन गर्भगृह, meaning `` छोटी रूम ''.
the descriptive पद for the smallest जीना biological ढांचा was coined by Robert hooke in a book he published in 1665 when he compared the cork कोशिकाएं he देखी through his microscope to the small कक्ष भिक्षुओं lived in.
Grecian सूत्र is a men 's hair coloring product in the United States.
Canada और यूरोपीय previously बैन the product क्युकी of इसके use of सीसे acetate.
A motor scooter 's front साथ an अव्यवहारिक number और variety of headlamps, added for decorative उद्देश्य
A headlamp is a lamp attached to the सामने of a vehicle to लाइट the सड़क ahead.
headlamp performance has steadily improved throughout the ऑटोमोबाइल आयु, spurred by the great disparity between daytime and nighttime ट्रैफ़िक fatalities : the u.S. National राजमार्ग ट्रैफ़िक सुरक्षा Administration states that nearly half of all traffic-related fatalities occur in the अंधेरा, despite तभी 25 % of ट्रैफ़िक यात्राएं दौरान darkness.
While it is आम लिये the term headlight to be used interchangeably in informal discussion, headlamp is the term for the यंत्र itself, जबकि हेडलाइट properly refers to the beam of लाइट उत्पादित and distributed by the यंत्र.
Other vehicles, such as रेल and वायुयान, are required to have headlamps.
Bicycle headlamps हैं often प्रयुक्त on साइकिल, and are जरूरी in some jurisdictions.
वे can be संचालित by a battery or a छोटी electrical सृजनकर्ता on the व्हील.
Additionally automotive रात्रि दृष्टि systems कार्य to संपूरक headlamps.
Women 's rights are the अधिकारों और entitlements claimed for women and girls of many समाजों विश्वव्यापी.
In कुछ places these rights are institutionalized or supported by विधि, local custom, and behaviour, whereas in others they may be ignored or suppressed.
They differ from broader धारणाएं of इंसान rights through दावा of an अंतर्निहित historical and परंपरागत bias against the कसरत of rights by महिलाओं and girls in favour of मेन and boys.
मुद्दे commonly associated with notions of women 's अधिकारों शामिल, हालांकि are not limited to, the सही : to bodily अखंडता और autonomy ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to थाम पब्लिक दफ्तर ; to कार्य ; to fair मजदूरी or equal pay ; to own property ; to शिक्षा ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to डालें into विधिक contracts ; and to have वैवाहिक, parental and धार्मिक अधिकारों.
Caryn Elaine Johnson, best known as Whoopi गोल्डबर्ग (, ( born November 13, 1955 ) is an American comedienne, actress, singer-songwriter, political activist, लेखक और talk दिखाएँ host.
Goldberg made उसके film डेब्यू in the Color जामुनी ( 1985 ), playing celie, a mistreated black woman in the Deep South.
She received a नामांकन for the Academy Award for बेहतरीन Actress और won her पहला Golden ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये her role in the film.
in 1990, she निभाई oda mae भूरा, a wacky मानसिक helping a slain man ( Patrick swayze ) save his प्रेमी ( Demi Moore ) in the blockbuster भुत.
This performance won her a second सुनहरी ग्लोब and an Academy पुरस्कार for बेहतरीन Supporting Actress ; इस बना Goldberg only the second black woman in the history of the अकादमी Awards to जीत an acting Oscar—the first होने Hattie mcdaniel who जीती for Gone With the हवा in 1939.
notable बाद films include Sister अधिनियम and Sister अधिनियम 2, The खिलाड़ी, Made in अमेरिका, कैसा Stella मिला उसके नाली Back, Girl, बाधित and Rat Race.
She is भी acclaimed for उसके roles as the bartender Guinan in स्टार Trek : the Next Generation, as टेरी doolittle in jumpin ' Jack फ्लैश, और as कार्मेन Tibideaux in ग्ली, as खूब as the voice of shenzi the hyena in the Lion किंग.
गोल्डबर्ग रै been nominated for 13 Emmy पुरस्कार for her work in television.
She थी co-producer of the popular game show हॉलीवुड Squares from 1998 to 2004.
वो रै महरूम the मॉडरेटर of the daytime बात show the View since 2007.
Goldberg has a Grammy, दो Daytime Emmys, दो Golden Globes, a टोनी ( लिये production, नहीं एक्टिंग ), and an Oscar.
In जोड, Goldberg has a अंग्रेजों Academy फिल्मी पुरस्कार, four People 's Choice पुरस्कार, and has been सम्मानित with a star on the Hollywood चलना of कीर्ति.
She is one of the few entertainers जो have won an Emmy, Grammy, Oscar, and Tony पुरस्कार.
the National हॉकी लीग ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit संघ '' which operates a major professional बर्फ हॉकी league of 30 franchised सदस्य clubs, of which seven are फिलहाल located in कनाडा और 23 in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Headquartered in New York City, the NHL is widely माना to be the premier पेशेवर बर्फ hockey लीग in the संसार, and एक of the प्रमुख पेशेवर sports leagues in the United राज्य and Canada.
the Stanley Cup, the oldest professional खेल trophy in North America, is awarded annually to the league playoff champion at the end of each ऋतु.
The लीग was organized on नवम्बर 26, 1917, in मॉन्ट्रियल, क्यूबेक, Canada, बाद the suspension of operations of its पूर्ववर्ती organization, the National Hockey Association ( NHA ), which had been founded in 1909.
It started with four teams और, through a series of expansions, contractions, and relocations, the league is now composed of 30 क्रियाशील franchises.
the nation to which the नाम of the league originally referred was कनाडा, हालांकि the league has अभी महरूम binational since 1924 जब it expanded into the United States.
After a labour विवाद that led to the रद्दीकरण of the entire 2004–05 season, the league resumed play अंतर्गत a नई collective bargaining agreement that शामिल a सैलरी cap.
in 2009, the NHL enjoyed record highs in शर्तें of sponsorships, उपस्थिति, and टेलीविज़न audiences.
the एनएचएल draws अनेक highly skilled खिलाड़ी इससे all over the world and फिलहाल has players from about 20 different countries.
Although canadians have historically constituted the बहुमत of the players in the NHL, over the पास्ट four plus decades the percentages of US and यूरोपीय players have increased दोनो क्युकी of the NHL 's continued expansion इससे छह to तीस clubs since 1967, and the increased उपलब्धता of अत्यधिक skilled यूरोपीय players.
Maggots feeding on carrion.
A maggot is the लार्वा of a fly ( order Diptera ) ; it is applied in particular to the larvae of Brachyceran उड़ता, ऐसे as houseflies, cheese flies, and blowflies, rather than larvae of the Nematocera, ऐसे as मच्छरों और Crane flies.
`` Maggot '' is नहीं a technical term and should not be taken as ऐसे ; in many मानक पाठ्यपुस्तकों of entomology it does नहीं appear in the index at all.
In many non-technical ग्रन्थ the term is प्रयुक्त लिये कीट लार्वे in general.
Other sources have coined उनके own definitions ; लिये example : ``...
the term applies to a grub जब सब ट्रेस of limbs has disappeared... '' और ``... लागू to the footless लार्वे of Dipters. ''
maggot-like fly larvae are of चौड़ी महत्व in पारिस्थितिकी and medicine ; among अन्य roles, various प्रजाति are prominent in recycling carrion और garbage, attacking फसलों and foodstuffs, spreading microbial infections, और causing myiasis.
Herod (, hordos, Greek :, Hērōdēs ), also known as Herod the Great ( 73/74 BCE – 4 BCE in Jericho ), थी a Roman client king of judea.
His epithet of `` the Great '' is widely disputed as he is described as `` a madman जो murdered उसके own परिवार and a great अनेक rabbis ``.
He is भी known for उसके colossal building प्रोजेक्ट in Jerusalem and elsewhere, including उसके expansion of the Second Temple in Jerusalem ( sometimes referred to as हेरोदेस 's टेम्पल ) और the construction of the बंदरगाहों at Caesarea Maritima.
Important details of his biography are gleaned इससे the works of the 1st century ce Roman–Jewish इतिहासकार josephus Flavius.
the Romans made हेरोदेस 's son, Herod Archelaus, ethnarch of Judea, Samaria, और Idumea ( biblical edom ) from 4 BCE to 6 ce, referred to as the tetrarchy of Judea.
Archelaus थी judged incompetent by the Roman emperor Augustus who तब संयुक्त Samaria, Judea proper और Idumea into Iudaea province under rule of a prefect until age 41.
हेरोदेस 's अन्य son हेरोदेस antipas was tetrarch of galilee इससे 4 BCE–39 CE.
ABO blood group antigens present on red रक्त cells और IgM antibodies present in the serum
the ABO blood समूह प्रणाली is the सबसे important blood प्रकार system ( or blood group प्रणाली ) in human blood transfusion.
The संबद्ध anti-a and anti-b antibodies are usually IgM antibodies, जिससे हैं प्रायः produced in the पहला years of जीवन by sensitization to environmental substances such as खाना, जीवाणु, and viruses.
ABO blood प्रकार are भी present in some other पशु, for उदाहरण apes ऐसे as chimpanzees, bonobos, and gorillas.
Year 1907 ( mcmvii ) was a common साल starting on Tuesday ( link होगा प्रदर्शक the full calendar ) of the Gregorian calendar and a आम year starting on सोमवार of the 13-day-slower Julian calendar.
northville is an affluent नगर स्तिथ in और divided by ओकलैंड और Wayne counties in the U.S. state of मिशिगन.
The क्षेत्रफल is a suburb of Metropolitan Detroit.
the जनसांख्यिकी was 5,970 at the 2010 census.
सबसे of the city is in ओकलैंड County, and is surrounded by the city of Novi.
The वेन काउंटी portion is घिरी by Northville Township.
northville is served by northville पब्लिक Schools.
the city is स्तिथ northeast of Ann Arbor और northwest of Detroit.
Elaine stritch ( born फ़रवरी 2, 1925 ) is an अमरीकी actress and vocalist.
She रै appeared in numerous stage plays और musicals, feature films, and many टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम.
She is known for her performance of `` The महिलाओं Who Lunch '' in स्टीफन Sondheim 's 1970 musical कम्पनी, her 2001 one-woman show, Elaine Stritch at Liberty, और recently for her भूमिका as Jack Donaghy 's mother Colleen on NBC 's 30 चट्टान.
वो रै महरूम मनोनीत लिये the Tony Award five टाइम्स in विभिन्न categories.
Stritch is also a three-time एमी Award विजेता.
Misfits is a अंग्रेजों science fiction comedy-drama टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ परिचय a group of young offenders sentenced to work in a जातियाँ service कार्यक्रम, where they obtain supernatural powers after a strange विद्युत तूफ़ान.
the series opened in 2009 और is currently ongoing.
Antonia Thomas, Iwan Rheon, Lauren Socha, Nathan Stewart-Jarrett, and रॉबर्ट Sheehan हैं introduced as Alisha Daniels, साइमन Bellamy, Kelly Bailey, Curtis Donovan, and Nathan यंग respectively.
sheehan left बाद the second series, replaced in the third by जोसेफ Gilgun as Rudy Wade.
After the चौथी series was घोषित Rheon, Thomas और Socha had बाएँ their भूमिकाएँ और होता be replaced by नई वर्ण कार्ला Crome, नाथन McMullen और Matt stokoe, as Jess, Finn and Alex क्रमशः.
मिडवे through the चौथी series, Stewart-Jarrett left while नताशा O'Keeffe joined the डाल as ऐबी Smith.
On 19 कूच 2013, चैनल 4 announced at a दबायें event that वे have renewed misfits for a पांचवां और फाइनल series containing 8 episodes.
Brett lorenzo Favre ( born October 10, 1969 ) is a पूर्व American football quarterback जो spent the majority of his करियर with the Green Bay Packers of the National फ़ुटबॉल League ( NFL ).
He was a 20-year veteran of the एनएफएल, having played quarterback लिये the Atlanta Falcons ( 1991 ), Green खाड़ी Packers ( 1992 – 2007 ), New यॉर्क Jets ( 2008 ) और Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ).
Favre is the तभी क्वार्टरबैक in एनएफएल इतिहास to throw लिये over 70,000 गज, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, और over 10,000 pass कोशिशें.
favre प्रारंभ at the क्वार्टरबैक स्थिति लिये the University of Southern मिसिसिपी for four years पहले होने selected in the second round of the 1991 NFL Draft by अटलांटा ( 33rd overall ).
He was traded to Green Bay on February 10, 1992, लिये the 19th pick in the 1992 एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट.
favre became the Packers ' starting क्वार्टरबैक in the fourth खेल of the 1992 season, stepping in लिये injured quarterback Don majkowski, and started every game through the 2007 season.
he was traded to the नई York Jets and started at क्वार्टरबैक for the 2008 season before signing with the वाइकिंग्स on August 18, 2009 as उनके starting quarterback.
He made an NFL record 297 लगातार starts ( 321 including playoffs ).
He is the only player to win the AP Most मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी तीन consecutive टाइम्स ( 1995–97 ).
He has led teams to eight division championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), five nfc चैंपियनशिप Games ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), और two Super कटोरी दिखावे ( सुपर Bowl XXXI, सुपर Bowl XXXII ), winning एक ( Super कटोरी xxxi ).
He holds many एनएफएल रिकॉर्ड, सहित most career touchdown passes, सबसे करियर गुजर गज, सबसे करियर pass completions, most career pass कोशिशें, most career interceptions thrown, सबसे consecutive starts by a खिलाड़ी, most consecutive starts by a क्वार्टरबैक, most करियर victories as a starting quarterback, most बर्खास्त, and most fumbles.
He is also referred to by his nickname `` The Gunslinger ''.
The following is a सूची of notable aircraft hijackings around the संसार.
The World चौड़ी Web ( abbreviated as www or w3, commonly ज्ञात as the वेब ), is a प्रणाली of interlinked hypertext documents accessed via the Internet.
With a वेब ब्राउजर, एक can दृश्य web पृष्ठों that may contain टेक्स्ट, images, videos, and अन्य मल्टीमीडिया, and navigate between उन्हें via hyperlinks.
using concepts from his earlier हाइपरटेक्स्ट systems like enquire, British engineer, computer scientist और at कि समय कर्मचारी of the cern, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, now निदेशक of the संसार Wide वेब consortium ( W3C ), wrote a प्रस्ताव in March 1989 for what would आखिरकार become the संसार Wide वेब.
At cern, a European शोध संगठन near Geneva straddling the किनारा between France and स्विट्ज़रलैंड, Berners-Lee and Belgian computer वैज्ञानिक रॉबर्ट cailliau proposed in 1990 to use hypertext `` to link and अभिगम सूचना of विभिन्न kinds as a web of nodes in which the user can ब्राउज़ at होगा '', and they publicly introduced the project in December of the same साल.
Wayne lyman Morse ( October 20, 1900July 22, 1974 ) was a politician and attorney from Oregon, संयुक्त राज्य, known for उसके proclivity लिये opposing उसके parties ' नेतृत्व, and specifically for his opposition to the Vietnam युद्ध on संवैधानिक grounds.
Born in Madison, Wisconsin, and educated at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and the University of मिनेसोटा विधि School, मोर्स moved to Oregon in 1930 और began शिक्षण at the University of ऑरेगॉन School of Law.
During संसार युद्ध II he थी elected to the संयुक्त राज्य Senate as a रिपब्लिकन ; he became an स्वतंत्र बाद Dwight D. आइज़नहावर 's election to the presidency in 1952.
While an स्वतंत्र, he set a record लिये performing the दूसरी longest one-person filibuster in the इतिहास of the Senate.
मोर्स joined the Democratic Party in 1955, और थी reelected twice while a member of कि party.
Morse बना a brief run for the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी 's अध्यक्षीय नामांकन in 1960.
a few years later, मोर्स was one of तभी two Senators who opposed the गल्फ of Tonkin रेज़ोल्यूशन, जिससे authorized the president to लो military action in वियतनाम without a घोषणा of war.
He continued to speak out विरूद्ध the युद्ध in the ensuing years, and lost his 1968 बोली लिये reelection to Bob packwood, जो criticized his strong opposition to the war.
Morse बना दो more बोलियों for reelection to the Senate before his death in 1974.
In parliamentary procedure, a motion to तालिका has दो अलग and contradictory meanings:
In the United राज्य, to table प्रायः means the to lay [ the टॉपिक ] on the table or to move लिये postponement of consideration ; a proposal to बर्खास्तगी विचार of a स्थगित motion.
much less often, it अर्थात् a motion to `` put on the table '' : a proposal to begin विचार ( or reconsideration ), a उपयोग सतत with the बाकी of the English-speaking world.
In the rest of the English-speaking world ऐसे as the United किंगडम, to तालिका means to मूव to place [ the टॉपिक ] upon the तालिका ( or to move to place on the table ) : a प्रस्ताव to begin consideration ( or reconsideration ) of a प्रस्ताव.
दोनो the अमरीकी और the British dialects have the भाव of `` to तालिका '' as to lay [ the topic ] on the तालिका or to cause [ the topic ] to झूठ on the table.
The difference is the विचार of कया the तालिका is for, that of a शेल्फ off to the पक्ष, or an active कार्य bench.
the British अर्थ has the sense of the तालिका as being an क्रियाशील work bench, with the टॉपिक being the center of ध्यान, माना और discussed by all until it can be resolved, at which point it is taken off the 'table '.
The American sense is कि the table is जैसे कि of a shelf, अभिलेख, or long-term storage device, जहाँ the टॉपिक has been disposed of by sending it to the 'table ' और leaving it वहीँ.
खिलौना Story 3 is a 2010 अमरीकी 3d computer animated comedy-drama prison film, और the तीसरा किश्त in the खिलौना Story series.
It थी उत्पादित by पिक्चर्स एनिमेशन Studios and वितरित by Walt डिज़्नी Pictures.
निर्देशित by ली Unkrich, the film was released विश्वव्यापी from June through October in Disney डिजिटल 3-D, RealD, and IMAX 3d.
खिलौना स्टोरी 3 थी also the first film to be released theatrically साथ Dolby Surround 7.1 sound.
the screenplay थी लिखा by Michael Arndt, while Unkrich लिखा the स्टोरी along with John lasseter and Andrew Stanton, respectively निदेशक and co-writer of the two first films.
the plot focuses on the खिलौने Woody, Buzz Lightyear, और their friends dealing with an uncertain future as their मालिक, एंडी, prepares to छोड़ for कॉलेज.
अभिनेताओं Tom Hanks, टिम Allen, Joan Cusack, Don rickles, estelle Harris, John Ratzenberger, वालेस Shawn, Jeff pidgeon, Jodi Benson, R. Lee Ermey, जॉन Morris, और Laurie metcalf reprised उनके voice-over roles from the पिछला films.
Jim varney, who निभाई Slinky Dog in the पहला two films, और Joe ranft, जो portrayed lenny and wheezy, दोनो died before production began on खिलौना स्टोरी 3.
The भूमिका of slinky श्वान was taken over by Blake क्लार्क ( a friend of Varney ), जबकि ranft 's characters and विभिन्न अन्य were written आउट of the story.
नई characters include performances by ned Beatty, Timothy Dalton, Kristen Schaal, Bonnie Hunt, whoopi Goldberg, Jeff Garlin, रिचर्ड दयालु, and माइकल Keaton.
The feature broke Shrek the Thirds record as the biggest opening day North American सकल for an animated फिल्मी unadjusted लिये inflation, and a big खोलने साथ an unadjusted सकल of $ 110,307,189.
It is also the highest-grossing खोलने वीकेंड for a Pixar film, as खूब as the highest-grossing opening weekend for a film to have opened in the month of June.
This is the highest-grossing film of 2010, both in the United राज्य और Canada, and worldwide.
in early August, it became पिक्चर्स 's highest-grossing film at the North American box दफ्तर ( surpassing Finding Nemo ), और the highest-grossing एनिमेटेड film of all time विश्वव्यापी ( surpassing shrek 2 ) ; later that माह, खिलौना स्टोरी 3 became the पहला ever एनिमेटेड film in इतिहास to make over $ 1 billion worldwide.
It is currently the 10th-highest-grossing film of all time.
Toy स्टोरी 3 was nominated लिये five Academy Awards, सहित बेहतरीन Picture, Best Adapted Screenplay, और बेहतरीन Sound Editing.
it was the third animated फिल्मी ( after Beauty and the Beast और Up ) to be मनोनीत लिये Academy Award लिये बेहतरीन चित्र.
It won the awards for बेहतरीन Animated Feature and बेहतरीन Original सोंग.
John Levell starks ( born August 10, 1965 ) is an American retired professional basketball shooting guard.
Starks was listed at 6'5 '' and 190 pounds during उसके एनबीए playing करियर.
Although he was not drafted in the 1988 एनबीए ड्राफ्ट after attending four कॉलेजों in his native ओक्लाहोमा, सहित Oklahoma राज्य University, he gained fame जबकि playing for the New York Knicks of the National बास्केट संघ in the 1990s.
Secure डिजिटल or ( SD ) is a non-volatile memory कार्ड format for use in portable डिवाइस, such as mobile phones, digital कैमरे, GPS navigation devices, and tablet कंप्यूटर.
The सुरक्षित Digital standard is कायम by the sd Card संघ ( sda ).
SD technologies have महरूम implemented in more than 400 ब्रांड्स आरपार dozens of उत्पाद categories और अधिक than 8,000 मॉडल.
The सुरक्षित डिजिटल format शामिल चार card परिवारों available in three different रूप factors.
the four families हैं the original Standard-Capacity ( sdsc ), the High-Capacity ( SDHC ), the eXtended-Capacity ( sdxc ), और the SDIO, जिससे combines input/output कृत्यों with data storage.
the तीन form factors are the original आकार, the `` मिनी '' size, और the `` micro '' size ( see illustration ).
There are many combinations of रूप कारकों और device परिवारों.
electrically passive adapters allow the use of a smaller कार्ड in a host device built to थाम a larger कार्ड.
Host devices that comply साथ नए versions of the specification provide backward compatibility और accept पुरानी SD ताश, but इस आलेख explains अनेक factors कि can prevent the use of a नए sd card:
A नए card may प्रस्ताव greater क्षमता than the मेजबान device can handle.
A newer कार्ड may use a file प्रणाली the मेजबान device can not navigate.
Use of an sdio कार्ड requires the मेजबान device be designed for the input/output कृत्यों the card provides.
The organization of the card was changed starting with the sdhc family.
Some vendors produced SDSC cards above 1 gb before the sda had मानकीकृत a method of doing so.
The sda uses several trademarked logos to enforce अनुपालन साथ इसके विशेषताएँ and assure उपयोक्ता of compatibility.
ह्यूज John Mungo Grant ( born 9 September 1960 ) is a अंग्रेजों actor and film producer.
He रै प्राप्त a सुनहरी ग्लोब, a bafta, and an Honorary césar.
उसके films have earned more than us $ 2.4 billion from 25 नाट्य रिलीज विश्वव्यापी.
Grant achieved international stardom बाद appearing in Richard कर्टिस 's successful Four Weddings and a अंत्येष्टि ( 1994 ).
He used इस भेदन role as a frequent cinematic persona दौरान the 1990s, delivering comic performances in mainstream films like मिकी Blue Eyes ( 1999 ) and नॉटिंग Hill ( 1999 ).
by the turn of the 21st सदी, he had established himself as a leading man skilled with a satirical comic हुनर.
Grant has expanded उसके oeuvre with critically acclaimed turns as a कैड in Bridget Jones 's डायरी ( 2001 ), About a Boy ( 2002 ), प्रेम दरअसल ( 2003 ), और अमरीकी Dreamz ( 2006 ).
He बाद played विरूद्ध प्रकार साथ अनेक cameo भूमिकाएँ in the एपिक drama फिल्मी Cloud Atlas ( 2012 ).
Within the film industry, Grant is cited as an anti-film star who approaches उसके भूमिकाएँ like a character actor, और attempts to make his acting appear spontaneous.
Hallmarks of his comic skills include a nonchalant touch of irony / sarcasm and पढ़ाई physical mannerisms as well as his precisely-timed dialogue delivery and facial expressions.
the entertainment media 's coverage of Grant 's life off the big screen रै प्रायः निष्प्रभ उसके work as a thespian.
he रै been vocal परिचय his disrespect लिये the व्यवसायिक of एक्टिंग, and in his disdain towards the culture of celebrity and hostility towards the media.
In a career spanning 30 years, Grant रै repeatedly claimed that acting is नहीं a सच्चा calling but just a job he गिरी into.
The Han Dynasty ( ; ) ( 206 BC – 220 ad ) थी an इम्पीरियल राजवंश of China, preceded by the Qin Dynasty ( 221–207 BC ) and succeeded by the Three kingdoms ( 220–280 AD ).
it थी founded by the विद्रोही leader लियू बंग, ज्ञात मरणोपरांत as सम्राट Gaozu of Han.
it was briefly बाधित by the Xin राजवंश ( 9–23 AD ) of the former regent Wang Mang.
This interregnum separates the Han into दो अवधि : the Western Han ( 206 bc – 9 ad ) and Eastern Han ( 25–220 ad ).
Spanning over four centuries, the काल of the Han राजवंश is considered a golden आयु in Chinese history.
To this दिन, चीन 's बहुमत जातीय group refers to itself as the `` Han लोगों '' और the Chinese script is referred to as `` Han characters ``.
The हान Empire थी विभाजित into areas directly controlled by the सेंट्रल government, ज्ञात as commanderies, and a क्रमांक of semi-autonomous kingdoms.
ये kingdoms gradually खोया सब vestiges of उनके independence, particularly following the Rebellion of the Seven राज्य.
The Xiongnu, a nomadic confederation जिससे dominated the eastern Eurasian Steppe, defeated the हान army in बैटल in 200 BC.
Following the defeat, a राजनैतिक marriage गठबंधन थी negotiated in जिससे the हान became the de facto inferior partner.
जब, despite the treaty, the Xiongnu जारी to रेड Han borders, Emperor Wu of हान ( r. 141–87 BC ) शुभारम्भ several सैन्य अभियान against उन्हें.
The परम Han victory in these wars eventually मजबूर the xiongnu to accept vassal औकात as हान tributaries.
ये अभियान विस्तारित हान sovereignty into the Tarim Basin of Central Asia and helped establish the vast trade संजाल ज्ञात as the रेशा Road, जिससे reached as far as the Mediterranean world.
Han forces managed to divide the Xiongnu into दो competing राष्ट्र, the Southern and उत्तरी Xiongnu, और मजबूर the Northern xiongnu across the Ili नदी.
despite these victories, the territories उत्तर of Han 's सीमायें यहूद quickly overrun by the nomadic Xianbei Confederation.
After 92 AD, the palace हिजड़े increasingly शामिल themselves in अदालत राजनीती, engaging in हिंसक power struggles between the various consort clans of the empresses and empress dowagers, causing the Han 's ultimate downfall.
इम्पीरियल authority was भी seriously challenged by large Daoist religious समाजों जिससे instigated the Yellow Turban विद्रोह और the Five Pecks of Rice विद्रोह.
Following the death of Emperor Ling ( r. 168–189 ad ), the palace eunuchs suffered wholesale नरसंहार by सैन्य officers, allowing members of the aristocracy and सैन्य governors to become warlords and divide the empire.
जब साओ Pi, King of वेई, usurped the सिंहासन from सम्राट Xian, the Han Dynasty ceased to मौजूद.
The Han राजवंश was an age of economic समृद्धि and देखी a significant growth of the धन अर्थव्यवस्था first established during the Zhou Dynasty ( c. 1050–256 BC ).
The coinage जारी by the सेंट्रल सरकारी मिंट in 119 BC remained the मानक coinage of China until the तंग राजवंश ( 618–907 AD ).
To pay लिये its सैन्य अभियान और the settlement of newly conquered frontier territories, the government nationalized the private salt और iron उद्योग in 117 BC.
These government monopolies were repealed दौरान the Eastern Han period, and the lost revenue थी recouped through heavily taxing निजी उद्यमियों.
the emperor थी at the शिखर of Han समाज.
He presided over the Han government लकिन shared शक्ति साथ दोनो the धामों and appointed मंत्रियों जो आए largely from the scholarly gentry class.
इससे the reign of Emperor wu onward, the Chinese court officially sponsored Confucianism in education and court राजनीती, synthesized with the cosmology of later scholars such as डांग Zhongshu.
इस policy endured जबतक the पतन of the Qing राजवंश in 1911 AD.
Science and technology during the Han काल देखी significant advances, सहित papermaking, the nautical steering rudder, the use of ऋणात्मक numbers in mathematics, the raised-relief मैप, the हाइड्रोलिक -powered armillary sphere for खगोलशास्त्र, और a seismometer employing an inverted pendulum.
tourette सिंड्रोम ( also called Tourette 's सिंड्रोम, tourette 's disorder, Gilles de la tourette syndrome, GTS or, अधिक commonly, simply Tourette 's or TS ) is an inherited neuropsychiatric विकार with onset in बाल्यकाल, characterized by अनेक physical ( motor ) tics and at least एक गायन ( phonic ) tic.
ये tics characteristically मोम और wane, can be suppressed temporarily, and are preceded by a premonitory urge.
Tourette 's is पारिभाषित as part of a वर्णक्रम of tic disorders, जिससे includes क्षणिक and chronic tics.
tourette 's was एकबार माना a rare and bizarre syndrome, most often संबद्ध साथ the exclamation of obscene words or socially inappropriate and अपमानजनक remarks ( coprolalia ), but this symptom is उपस्थित in only a small अल्पसंख्यक of people साथ Tourette 's.
Tourette 's is no longer considered a rare कंडीशन, but it is not सदा correctly identified because most मामले हैं mild और the severity of tics decreases for most children as they pass through adolescence.
Between 0.4 % and 3.8 % of children ages 5 to 18 may have tourette 's ; the prevalence of क्षणिक and दीर्घकालिक tics in school-age children is higher, with the more common tics of नजर blinking, coughing, गला clearing, सूँघने, और फेशियल movements.
Extreme Tourette 's in adulthood is a rarity, और Tourette 's does नहीं adversely affect intelligence or जीवन expectancy.
Genetic and environmental factors खेल a role in the etiology of Tourette 's, but the exact causes are unknown.
in most cases, medication is अनावश्यक.
वहीँ is no प्रभावी treatment for प्रत्येक case of tics, लकिन निश्चित medications and therapies can help when उनके उपयोग is warranted.
Education is an important part of कोई treatment योजना, और explanation और reassurance अलोन are प्रायः sufficient treatment.
comorbid शर्तें ( co-occurring diagnoses other than tourette 's ) ऐसे as attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder ( adhd ) और obsessive–compulsive विकार ( OCD ) are उपस्थित in many patients देखी in tertiary specialty clinics.
ये अन्य conditions often cause more कार्यात्मक पुतलियों to the individual than the tics कि हैं the hallmark of tourette 's, hence it is महत्वपूर्ण to correctly identify comorbid conditions and दावत उन्हें.
the eponym was bestowed by Jean-Martin charcot ( 1825–1893 ) on behalf of his resident, Georges Albert édouard ब्रूटस Gilles de la tourette ( 1859–1904 ), a French physician and neurologist, who प्रकाशित an account of nine patients साथ Tourette 's in 1885.
सनबीम बैज.
Sunbeam was a marque registered by John Marston Co. Ltd of Wolverhampton, England, in 1888.
The company पहला बना bicycles, then motorcycles and cars from the late 19th century until about 1936, और लागू the marque to all three फ़ॉर्म of परिवहन.
the कम्पनी also manufactured एयरो engines in the पहला संसार War and 647 वायुयान दौरान the दूसरी World युद्ध.
a सनबीम थी the first British car to win a Grand प्रिक्स race, and set a number of जमीन गति records.
the company went into receivership in 1935 और was purchased by the Rootes Group, जिससे continued to use the सनबीम marque.
Fox News चैनल ( FNC ), भी known as Fox News, is a केबल न्यूज channel स्वामित्व by the Fox Entertainment Group, a subsidiary of न्यूज निगम.
As of April 2009, the चैनल was उपलब्धियाँ to 102 million households in the United States and to viewers internationally, प्रसारण primarily from इसके नई York studios.
The channel was created by Australian-American media mogul रुपर्ट मर्डोक, who नियुक्त former एनबीसी executive Roger Ailes as its founding CEO.
It शुभारम्भ on October 7, 1996 to 17 लाख cable subscribers.
It grew दौरान the late 1990s and 2000s to become the प्रबल केबल न्यूज network in the United राज्य.
Critics have stated that फॉक्स News चैनल promotes conservative राजनैतिक स्थितियाँ and biased reporting.
Commentators, न्यूज anchors, और reporters at फॉक्स News चैनल have responded that news reporting and political commentary operate independently of each other, और have अस्वीकृत कोई bias in न्यूज रिपोर्टिंग.
the mandibular first molar or six-year molar is the दाँत located distally ( away from the midline of the face ) from दोनो the mandibular second premolars of the mouth लकिन mesial ( toward the midline of the फेस ) इससे दोनो mandibular second molars.
It is स्तिथ on the mandibular ( lower ) arch of the mouth, और generally opposes the maxillary ( upper ) पहला molars और the maxillary 2nd premolar in सामान्य class I occlusion.
the फलन of इस molar is समान to that of सब molars in regard to पीस being the principal कार्रवाई during mastication, commonly known as चबाने.
वहीँ हैं usually five well-developed cusps on mandibular first molars : two on the buccal ( side nearest the cheek ), two lingual ( side निकटतम the tongue ), and एक distal.
There are ग्रेट differences between the deciduous ( baby ) mandibular molars and those of the स्थाई mandibular molars, even हालांकि उनके फलन are समान.
The permanent mandibular molars are not माना to have any teeth that precede it.
despite होने named molars, the deciduous molars हैं followed by permanent premolars.
In the सार्वभौमिक system of notation, the deciduous mandibular first molars are designated by a अक्षर लिखा in uppercase.
The right पतझड़ी mandibular first molar is ज्ञात as `` s '', and the left one is ज्ञात as `` L ''.
The international notation has a different system of notation.
Thus, the right पतझड़ी mandibular पहला molar is known as `` 84 '', और the बाएँ one is known as `` 74 ''.
In the सार्वभौमिक प्रणाली of notation, the permanent mandibular first molars are designated by a क्रमांक.
The right स्थाई mandibular first molar is ज्ञात as `` 30 '', and the left एक is ज्ञात as `` 19 ''.
the Palmer संकेतन उपयोग a क्रमांक in संयोजन with a प्रतीक designating in जिससे quadrant the दाँत is found.
For this दाँत, the left and सही first molars would have the वही number, `` 6 '', लकिन the right एक would have the प्रतीक, `` ┐ '', over it, while the बाएँ one would have, `` ┌ ''.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय notation रै a different क्रमांकन system than the previous two, और the सही स्थाई mandibular first molar is known as `` 46 '', और the बाएँ one is ज्ञात as `` 36 ''.
Mandibular primary first molars usually have four गूदा horns.
The first molar is usually the first permanent दाँत to erupt और रै adult undertones.
anatomy : the mandibular first molar has पाँच cusps : the mesiobuccal ( MB, toward midline and गाल ), mesiolingual ( ML, toward midline and जीभ ), distolingual ( DL, away इससे midline and towards tongue ), distobuccal ( db, दूर इससे midline and toward गाल ), and distal ( D, away इससे midline ), listed in order of अवरोहण size.
सूचीबद्ध in अनुक्रम of decreasing height they हैं : ML, DL, DF, MF, and D. an eighth cusp थी found in a primary second निम्नतर molar in an argentinean child.
Viewed from the शीर्ष of the tooth ( occlusal view ), the mandibular first molar is pentagonal ( पाँच sided ) in shape और tapers toward the lingual, साथ the पहलू होने the buccal surface, the mesial surface, the lingual surface, distal surface, and the distobuccal सतह.
The occlusal सतह has चार grooves.
The central नाली is not सीधा but runs bas the center of the दाँत mesially to distally and contains four pits ( mesial, सेंट्रल, central, और distal ).
the distobuccal groove runs from the distal pit in the central नाली distobuccally separating the distal and distobuccal पुलिन.
The lingual groove runs from the more distal of the central गड्ढों in the सेंट्रल नाली toward the lingual surface between the mesiolingual और distolingual cusps.
the buccal नाली runs from the more mesial of the सेंट्रल pits in the central नाली toward the buccal surface between the mesiobuccal and distobuccal cusps समाप्ति in the buccal गड्ढे.
The portion of the central नाली between the सेंट्रल गड्ढों is termed the लुईस ऑफसेट and is अनिवार्य to खाता for the स्थितियाँ of the buccal and lingual डोले ( buccal नाली being more mesial than the lingual groove जबकि they are parallel ).
From the buccal ( buccal view ), दो roots are present.
the distal रूट is generally straighter, although दोनो often have a slight distal गोलाई.
The heights of रुपरेखा on the mesial और distal contact the सटा दांत और are located at the junction of the occlusal and middle तिहाई of the crown.
The Florida Legislature is the दो houses कि act as the राज्य विधानमंडल of the U.S. state of फ्लोरिडा.
The Florida Constitution राज्य कि `` the legislative शक्ति of the state shall be vested in a विधानमंडल of the State of Florida, '' composed of a सीनेट and हाउस of प्रतिनिधि.
the legislature is seated at the Florida State कैपिटल in Tallahassee.
Stained glass depiction of Daniel interceding with arioch, the किंग 's गार्ड.
Arioch था been चार्ज with killing all the wise मेन after they यहूद not समर्थ to interpret Nebuchadnezzar 's dream.
डेनियल 2 is the दूसरी chapter of the Book of Daniel in the यहूदी बाइबल.
The chapter 's सोर्स text is predominantly written in Aramaic.
according to the text, Nebuchadnezzar is the किंग of Babylon जो is troubled by उसके dreams.
He मांगे an interpretation for his सपनो or will have his mystic interpreters executed.
डेनियल seeks Divine Wisdom to interpret the किंग 's सपनो and गुणगान परमेश्वर with a short psalm.
परमेश्वर gives Daniel a दृष्टि in the night to reveal the किंग 's dream.
Able to satisfy the king, Daniel is प्रचारित over the whole province of बाबुल.
One Comcast Center, the मुख्यालय of comcast in फिलाडेल्फिया, PA.
The बूढ़ा comcast लोगो from 1969 to 1999, when it थी replaced साथ the crescent logo.
The comcast Corporation is an American provider of entertainment, information और संचार उत्पाद and सेवाएं.
It is the largest केबल ऑपरेटर, one of the biggest mass media, घर Internet service provider, और तीसरा largest घर telephone service provider in the United States, providing cable टेलीविज़न, broadband Internet, telephone service और in some क्षेत्रों घर सुरक्षा ( including burglar alarms, surveillance कैमरे, आग alarm systems and home स्वचालन ) to दोनो residential और commercial ग्राहक in 40 states and the ज़िला of Columbia.
The कम्पनी is headquartered in Philadelphia, पेन्सिलवेनिया.
in 2011, Comcast acquired a 51 % बहुमत stake in media conglomerate nbcuniversal इससे ge in January 2011, और began the process of खरीदना the remaining 49 % on फ़रवरी 12, 2013, at a cost of $ 16.7 billion.
It completed the purchase on March 19, 2013.
Comcast also has significant पकड़कर in several केबल संजाल ( सहित E !
entertainment Television, स्टाइल संजाल, G4, the Golf चैनल और NBC Sports Network ), distribution ( ThePlatform ), and सम्बन्धित व्यवसायों.
Comcast रै been the subject of criticism लिये क्रियाएँ including its stance on जाल neutrality, as खूब as poor results on ग्राहक satisfaction surveys.
Porcupines हैं rodents साथ a coat of sharp कांटे, or quills, that defend and camouflage them इससे परभक्षी.
They are indigenous to the Americas, southern एशिया, and Africa.
Porcupines हैं the third largest of the rodents, behind the capybara and the beaver.
Most porcupines are about long, साथ an long tail.
Weighing, they हैं rounded, large and slow.
Porcupines come in various shades of brown, धूसर, and the असामान्य white.
Porcupines ' spiny protection resembles that of the unrelated erinaceomorph hedgehogs and monotreme echidnas.
The common साही is a herbivore.
It eats पत्ते, herbs, टहनियों and ग्रीन पौधे जैसे skunk cabbage and क्लोवर और in the winter it may eat bark.
The North American porcupine often climbs पेड़ to find food.
the अफ़्रीकी साही is नहीं a climber और forages on the ground.
It is mostly nocturnal, लकिन होगा sometimes forage for food in the day.
porcupines have become a pest in कीनिया and are eaten as a कोमलता.
The name porcupine comes इससे Middle French porc espin ( spined pig ).
A क्षेत्रीय American name for the एनिमल is quill pig.
First page of US पेटेंट 129,843 लिये सुधार in Lubricators for Steam-Engines
Elijah J. McCoy ( May 2, 1844 – अक्तूबर 10, 1929 ) was a black canadian-american आविष्कारक and engineer, जो थी notable for his 57 u.S. patents, most to do साथ lubrication of steam engines.
Born फ़्री in Canada, he लौटे as a five-year-old child साथ उसके family to the United States in 1847, जहाँ he lived लिये the बाकी of उसके जीवन और became a us नागरिक.
Honda FCX Clarity, a हाइड्रोजन fuel cell demonstration vehicle introduced in 2008
a hydrogen vehicle is a vehicle that uses hydrogen as its onboard fuel लिये motive शक्ति.
Hydrogen वाहनों शामिल hydrogen fueled space rockets, as खूब as automobiles and other transportation vehicles.
The power plants of such वाहनों बदलें the रासायनिक उर्जा of hydrogen to mechanical उर्जा either by burning hydrogen in an आतंरिक दहन engine, or by reacting हाइड्रोजन with ऑक्सीजन in a fuel cell to run electric मोटर्स.
फैली उपयोग of हाइड्रोजन लिये fueling परिवहन is a कुंजी element of a proposed hydrogen अर्थव्यवस्था.
हाइड्रोजन fuel करता not occur naturally on Earth and thus is not an energy source ; rather it is an energy वाहक.
it is सबसे अक्सर बना इससे methane or other चट्टान fuels, but it can be produced using sources ( ऐसे as wind, solar, or nuclear ) that हैं intermittent, too diffuse or too cumbersome to directly propel vehicles.
Integrated wind-to-hydrogen पौधे, using electrolysis of जल, हैं exploring technologies to उद्धार लागत low enough, and quantities great enough, to compete with परंपरागत energy स्त्रोत.
अनेक कंपनियाँ are working to develop technologies कि might efficiently exploit the संभावित of hydrogen उर्जा for mobile uses.
the आकर्षण of using hydrogen as an energy currency is that, if hydrogen is prepared बगैर using चट्टान fuel inputs, vehicle propulsion होता not contribute to carbon dioxide emissions.
the drawbacks of hydrogen use are ऊँची पूंजी cost, low energy content per ईकाई volume, ऊँची tankage weights, very ऊँची भंडार पोत pressures, the storage, transportation and भरना of gaseous or liquid हाइड्रोजन in vehicles, the large investment in अवसंरचना that would be required to ईंधन vehicles, और the inefficiency of production processes.
Sacramento is the पूंजी city of the u.S. state of California और the सीट of सरकारी of sacramento County.
It is स्तिथ at the confluence of the Sacramento River और the American River in the उत्तरी portion of California 's expansive सेंट्रल घाटी.
साथ an अनुमानित 2011 population of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest city in कैलिफ़ोर्निया and the 35th largest city in the United States.
Sacramento is the core cultural and आर्थिक बीच of the sacramento metropolitan क्षेत्रफल जिससे includes सात counties साथ an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123.
Its महानगर area is the fourth largest in California बाद the वृहद Los Angeles क्षेत्रफल, San फ्रांसिस्को Bay Area, and the San Diego metropolitan area, as खूब as the 25th largest in the संयुक्त States.
Sacramento was cited by Time magazine as America 's सबसे ethnically और racially integrated city in 2002.
sacramento became a city through the efforts of the स्विस immigrant John Sutter, Sr., his son John Sutter, jr., and James W. Marshall.
Sacramento grew जल्दी thanks to the protection of sutter 's फोर्ट, जिससे was established by sutter in 1839.
During the California सुनहरा फटाफट, sacramento was a प्रमुख distribution point, a वाणिज्यिक and agricultural center, and a टर्मिनस for वैगन रेल, stagecoaches, riverboats, the telegraph, the टट्टू एक्स्प्रेस, and the First transcontinental Railroad.
कैलिफ़ोर्निया State University, Sacramento, अधिक commonly ज्ञात as sacramento State or सैक State, is the largest लोकल university.
It is one of the twenty-three campuses of the California राज्य University प्रणाली.
drexel विश्वविद्यालयों sacramento is स्तिथ in Downtown, Sacramento.
विश्वविद्यालयों of the Pacific 's mcgeorge स्कूल of Law is located in the Oak Park पड़ोस.
in addition, the University of California, Davis is स्तिथ in आसपास डेविस, west of the पूंजी.
The UC Davis चिकित्सा बीच, a world-renowned research hospital, is स्तिथ in the city of Sacramento.
The Apple Store is a chain of खुदरा स्टोर्स owned and operated by ठहराना Inc., dealing in computers और उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स.
The stores बेचें मैकिंटोश personal computers, तन्त्र, ipods, iPads, आईफ़ोन, third-party accessories, and अन्य consumer electronics such as Apple TV.
कुछ ऊँची प्रोफ़ाइल स्टोर्स feature a थिएटर लिये presentations और वर्कशॉप and a स्टुडियो लिये प्रशिक्षण साथ ठहराना products ; all स्टोर्स offer a Genius Bar for तकनीकी support and मरम्मत, as खूब as free workshops available to the पब्लिक.
अंतर्गत the leadership of रॉन जॉनसन, the former वरिष्ठ Vice President of Retail परिचालन, the ठहराना स्टोर्स have, according to an article in the New यॉर्क टाइम्स, been जिम्मेदार लिये `` [ turning ] the boring computer sales floor into a sleek playroom filled with gadgets ''.
, Apple रै 405 stores विश्वव्यापी, with global sales of billion in merchandise in 2011, और they सीसे the संयुक्त States retail मार्केट in terms of sales per unit क्षेत्रफल.
Steven Paul `` Steve '' कार्य ( ; फ़रवरी 24, 1955 – अक्तूबर 5, 2011 ) was an American entrepreneur and inventor, बेहतरीन known as the co-founder, chairman, और CEO of Apple inc.
through ठहराना, he was widely recognized as a charismatic pioneer of the निजी कंप्यूटर revolution and लिये his influential career in the कंप्यूटर and consumer इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स फ़ील्ड, transforming `` one industry after another, from computers and स्मार्टफ़ोन to music and फिल्मों... ''
Jobs also co-founded and परोसा as मुख्य कार्यपालिका of Pixar Animation studios ; he became a member of the फलक of directors of The Walt डिज़्नी कम्पनी in 2006, when डिज़्नी acquired Pixar.
Jobs थी among the first to see the वाणिज्यिक potential of Xerox PARC 's mouse -driven graphical user interface, which led to the सृष्टि of the ठहराना लिसा and, one year later, the Macintosh.
he also played a role in introducing the LaserWriter, one of the पहला widely available laser printers, to the market.
After a शक्ति संघर्ष with the फलक of directors in 1985, Jobs left Apple and founded NeXT, a computer मंच विकास company specializing in the higher-education and कारोबार markets.
in 1986, he acquired the कंप्यूटर graphics प्रभाग of Lucasfilm, जिससे थी spun off as Pixar.
He was credited in Toy Story ( 1995 ) as an executive producer.
He served as सीईओ and बहुमत shareholder जबतक डिज़्नी 's purchase of Pixar in 2006.
in 1996, after ठहराना था failed to उद्धार its operating प्रणाली, copland, gil amelio turned to NeXT Computer, and the nextstep मंच became the न्यास लिये the मैक os x.
Jobs returned to ठहराना as an advisor, and took कंट्रोल of the company as an interim CEO.
Jobs brought Apple इससे near bankruptcy to profitability by 1998.
As the new सीईओ of the कम्पनी, Jobs oversaw the development of the imac, iTunes, ipod, iPhone, और iPad, और on the सेवाएं side, the कम्पनी 's ठहराना खुदरा Stores, iTunes स्टोर and the App स्टोर.
the success of these उत्पाद and services provided several years of stable financial रिटर्न, और propelled Apple to become the संसार 's most valuable publicly traded कम्पनी in 2011.
the reinvigoration of the company is regarded by many टीकाकारों as one of the महानतम turnarounds in business history.
in 2003, Jobs was diagnosed साथ a pancreas neuroendocrine tumor.
Though it was initially treated, he reported a hormone असंतुलन, underwent a जिगर प्रत्यारोपण in 2009, और appeared progressively thinner as his स्वास्थ्य declined.
On medical छोड़ for most of 2011, Jobs resigned in August that साल, and was निर्वाचित Chairman of the फलक.
he died of respiratory गिरफ़्तार related to his metastatic tumor on October 5, 2011.
कार्य received a number of honors and public recognition for his influence in the प्रौद्योगिकी and music उद्योग.
he रै been referred to as `` legendary '', a `` futurist '' or simply `` visionary '', और has महरूम वर्णित as the `` Father of the डिजिटल Revolution '', a `` master of innovation '', and a `` design perfectionist ''.
प्रवेश to section ( 52 ) of the कोलोसियम, with numerals स्टिल visible
Roman numerals, the न्यूमेरिक system in ancient Rome, उपयोग combinations of अक्षर from the लैटिन alphabet to signify मान.
the numbers 1 to 10 can be expressed in Roman numerals as follows:
और.
The Roman numeral प्रणाली is a cousin of etruscan numerals.
उपयोग of Roman numerals जारी बाद the decline of the रोमन साम्राज्य.
From the 14th सदी on, रोमन numerals began to be replaced in most contexts by more convenient Hindu-Arabic numerals ; however this process was क्रमिक, और the उपयोग of Roman numerals in कुछ नाबालिग applications continues to इस दिन.
Effective नाभिकीय Charge Diagram
The effective नाभिकीय charge ( often symbolize as or Z* ) is the net positive charge अनुभवी by an इलेक्ट्रॉन in a multi-electron atom.
the पद `` effective '' is used because the shielding effect of negatively charged electrons prevents उच्चतर कक्षीय electrons इससे experiencing the full nuclear charge by the repelling effect of inner-layer electrons.
the effective nuclear चार्ज experienced by the outer शेल इलेक्ट्रॉन is also called the core चार्ज.
It is संभावित to determine the शक्ति of the नाभिकीय charge by looking at the oxidation क्रमांक of the अणु.
This is a list of episodes from the डिस्कवरी Channel series, Storm Chasers.
A ग्रामीण stretch of i-5, with दो lanes in each दिशा separated by a विशाल grassy median, and with cross-traffic सीमित to overpasses और underpasses
The ड्वाइट D. Eisenhower नेशनल System of अंतरराज्यीय and Defense राजमार्गों ( commonly known as the Interstate राजमार्ग System, Interstate Freeway प्रणाली, अंतरराज्यीय प्रणाली, or बस the अंतरराज्यीय ) is a network of freeways कि फ़ॉर्म a भाग of the National Highway System of the United राज्य.
The प्रणाली is named लिये अध्यक्ष Dwight D. आइज़नहावर, who championed its formation.
Construction was प्राधिकृत by the संघीय सहायता राजमार्ग Act of 1956, and the original portion was completed 35 years later.
the संजाल has चूंकि been extended, and, it had a total लंबाई of, making it the world 's second longest after चीन 's., about one-quarter of सब vehicle miles चलित in the देश use the अंतरराज्यीय प्रणाली.
the लागत of निर्माण रै been estimated at $ 425 अरब ( in 2006 dollars ), making it the `` largest public works program since the Pyramids ``.
the प्रणाली रै contributed in shaping the United States into a world आर्थिक superpower और a highly industrialized स्वदेश.
.eu is the देश code top-level domain ( ccTLD ) for the यूरोपीय संघ ( eu ).
Launched on 7 December 2005, the डोमेन is available for organisations in और निवासियों of eu member states.
The TLD is administered by eurid, a consortium originally consisting of the national cctld registry operators of बेल्जियम, स्वीडन, और Italy, joined later by the नेशनल registry operator of the चेक Republic.
ट्रेडमार्क owners यहूद able to submit पंजीकरण through a sunrise काल, in an effort to prevent cybersquatting.
Full पंजीकरण started on 7 अप्रैल 2006.
Meister means निपुण in जर्मनी ( as in निपुण craftsman, or as an honorific title such as Meister eckhart ).
The word is akin to maestro.
In खेल, Meister is प्रयुक्त लिये the current national, European or world champion ( deutscher meister, *Europameister, Weltmeister ).
Many आधुनिक day जर्मनी police forces use the शीर्षक Meister.
During the दूसरी संसार युद्ध, Meister was the highest आयोजिक rank of the ordnungspolizei.
Meister रै been borrowed into English कठबोली, जहाँ it is प्रयुक्त in यौगिक nouns.
A व्यक्ति referred to as “Meister” is one who रै extensive theoretical ज्ञान and practical skills in his profession, कारोबार, or कुछ अन्य दयालु of work or कार्यकलाप.
For example, a “puzzle-meister” would be someone highly skilled at solving puzzles.
These neologisms sometimes have a sarcastic intent ( for उदाहरण, “stubble-meister” for someone साथ a short, neat beard or “crier-meister” for someone जो often cries ).
Mighty morphin Power Rangers is an American live-action children 's television series about teenagers with super-powers, based on the 16th installment of the जापानी सुपर sentai मताधिकार, kyōryū sentai zyuranger.
दोनो the show और इसके related merchandise saw unbridled overnight success, बनने a स्टेपल of 1990s पॉप culture in mere months.
Under the असली name, `` Mighty morphin Power Rangers '' the श्रेणी ran इससे 1993 to 1995 and spawned the विशेषता film Mighty Morphin शक्ति Rangers : The Movie.
The second and तीसरा seasons of the show खींचा on footage and तत्व इससे the सुपर sentai श्रेणी Gosei Sentai dairanger and निंजा sentai kakuranger क्रमशः, though the zyuranger वेशभूषा यहूद still used for the five प्रमुख Rangers and several regular villains.
Only the mecha और the kiba रेंजर costume ( worn by the White Ranger ) were retained from dairanger for the second season, while only the mecha from kakuranger were प्रदर्शित in the third season.
however the Kakuranger वेशभूषा यहूद later used लिये the title वर्ण of the mini-series, Mighty Morphin Alien रेंजरों.
the series was produced by mmpr Productions, वितरित by Saban entertainment, और aired on फॉक्स बच्चे.
The दिखाएँ 's merchandise थी produced and distributed by बंदाई Entertainment.
in 1996, the series थी rebranded as the Power रेंजरों मताधिकार ; renaming the श्रेणी every year after, and using costumes, props, और footage from subsequent Super Sentai series, as well as changing the cast and कथानक.
जबकि an overarching storyline होता continue जबतक Power Rangers Lost Galaxy, subsequent श्रेणी बाद mmpr हैं नहीं sequels or spin-offs in the traditional sense.
In 2010, a re-version of mighty morphin Power रेंजरों, with a new लोगो, कॉमिक book-referenced graphics, and extra alternative खास प्रभाव, was ब्रॉडकास्ट on ABC बच्चे, और Bandai produced brand new toys to coincide with the series.
Edgar allan Poe ( born Edgar Poe ; जनवरी 19, 1809 – October 7, 1849 ) थी an अमरीकी लेखक, कवि, editor and literary critic, माना भाग of the अमरीकी Romantic गति.
Best ज्ञात लिये his किस्से of mystery and the macabre, पो was one of the earliest American practitioners of the short story and is generally माना the inventor of the detective fiction genre.
he is further credited with contributing to the emerging विधा of विज्ञान fiction.
He was the first well-known American writer to कोशिश to earn a living through लिखने अलोन, resulting in a financially difficult life और करियर.
he was born as Edgar पो in Boston, मैसाचुसेट्स ; he was अनाथ यंग when his mother died shortly after his पिता abandoned the family.
पो थी लिया in by John and frances allan, of रिचमंड, वर्जिनिया, लकिन वे never formally adopted him.
he attended the विश्वविद्यालयों of Virginia for एक सेमेस्टर लकिन left due to lack of money.
After enlisting in the Army and बाद failing as an officer 's cadet at वेस्ट पाइंट, Poe parted तरीके with the allans.
His publishing career began विनम्रतापूर्वक, with an anonymous collection of poems, Tamerlane और अन्य Poems ( 1827 ), credited only to `` a bostonian ''.
Poe switched उसके focus to prose and खर्च the next अनेक सालो working लिये literary जर्नल्स और periodicals, becoming known लिये his अपना style of literary criticism.
His work मजबूर him to move among several शहरों, सहित Baltimore, Philadelphia, and नई York City.
In Baltimore in 1835, he married वर्जिनिया clemm, उसके 13-year-old cousin.
In January 1845 Poe published his कविता, `` The रेवेन ``, to instant कामयाबी.
His wife died of tuberculosis two years after its publication.
He began नियोजन to produce his own journal, the Penn ( later renamed The स्टाइलस ), though he died before it could be उत्पादित.
On अक्तूबर 7, 1849, at age 40, Poe died in Baltimore ; the cause of उसके death is unknown and has been variously attributed to alcohol, brain जमघट, हैजा, drugs, heart disease, rabies, suicide, तपेदिक, और other agents.
पो और his works बहकावे literature in the United राज्य और around the संसार, as well as in specialized फ़ील्ड, such as cosmology and क्रिप्टोग्राफी.
Poe and his work appear throughout लोकप्रिय संस्कृति in literature, music, films, and टेलीविज़न.
A number of उसके homes are dedicated संग्रहालय आज.
The Mystery Writers of America present an annual पुरस्कार ज्ञात as the एडगर पुरस्कार for distinguished कार्य in the रहस्य genre.
Lions are obligate carnivores ; they आवश्यकता up to सात kilograms ( 15 पाउंड ) of meat per दिन.
A प्रमुख component of their diet is the flesh of large स्तनधारियों, जैसे this अफ़्रीकी भैंस.
A carnivore ( ) meaning 'meat भक्षक ' ( Latin, caro अर्थ 'meat ' or 'flesh ' और vorare meaning 'to devour ' ) is an organism that गर्भाशयी इसके उर्जा and nutrient requirements from a diet consisting मुख्यतः or exclusively of animal ऊतक, whether through predation or scavenging.
पशु that depend solely on animal flesh for their nutrient आवश्यकताएँ हैं considered carnivores while those that also consume non-animal खाना are considered carnivores.
Omnivores also consume both एनिमल and non-animal food, and apart from the more general definition, there is no clearly defined ratio of plant to animal सामग्री that would distinguish a facultative carnivore इससे an omnivore.
a carnivore कि sits at the शीर्ष of the foodchain is an apex predator.
पौधे that कैप्चर and digest insects are called मांसाहारी plants.
similarly, fungi that कैप्चर microscopic animals are प्रायः called carnivorous fungi.
The FIFA World Cup, often simply the World Cup, is an international association फ़ुटबॉल competition contested by the वरिष्ठ men 's नेशनल teams of the members of fédération Internationale de Football Association ( फीफा ), the खेल 's global governing देह.
the championship रै been awarded every four सालो since the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1930, मगर in 1942 and 1946 जब it थी not held because of the दूसरी संसार War.
The current champions are स्पेन, who won the 2010 tournament.
the वर्तमान format of the टूर्नामेंट involves 32 teams competing लिये the शीर्षक at venues within the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a period of about a माह ; this phase is प्रायः called the World कप Finals.
A योग्यता phase, जिससे फिलहाल takes place over the preceding three सालो, is used to determine जिससे टीमों qualify for the tournament together with the मेजबान nation ( s ).
the 19 World कप tournaments have been won by eight different national teams.
Brazil have won पाँच times, और they are the तभी team to have played in every tournament.
the other संसार Cup winners are Italy, with चार शीर्षक ; Germany, with three titles ; Argentina और inaugural winners उरुग्वे, with two titles each ; and England, फ़्रांस, and स्पेन, साथ one title each.
The World कप is the संसार 's सबसे widely viewed sporting इवेंट ; an estimated 715.1 million people देखी the final match of the 2006 फीफा World कप held in Germany.
the next three World Cups will be hosted by ब्राज़ील in 2014, रूस in 2018, और क़तर in 2022.
Heroes is an अमरीकी science fiction टेलीविज़न नाटक श्रेणी created by Tim Kring that appeared on NBC for four सीज़न इससे सितंबर 25, 2006 through February 8, 2010.
The श्रेणी tells the कहानियां of ordinary लोगों who discover superhuman abilities, and how ये abilities लो प्रभाव in the वर्ण ' lives.
The series emulates the aesthetic style and storytelling of American कॉमिक किताबे, using multi-episode story arcs that निर्माण upon a larger, more encompassing चाप.
The series थी उत्पादित by tailwind प्रोडक्शन्स in association with Universal Media studios.
It was फिल्माया primarily in लॉस Angeles, California.
Four complete seasons aired, ending on फ़रवरी 8, 2010.
the critically acclaimed पहला ऋतु था a run of 23 एपीसोड and garnered an average of 14.3 million viewers in the संयुक्त States, receiving the highest दरजा for an NBC नाटक premiere in five years.
the second season of नायक आकर्षित an average of 13.1 लाख viewers in the u.S., and चिह्नित एनबीसी 's एकमात्र श्रेणी among the top 20 ranked कार्यक्रम in total viewership लिये the 2007–2008 season.
Heroes has earned a क्रमांक of पुरस्कार और nominations, including Primetime Emmy Awards, Golden ग्लोब्स, लोगों 's चुनाव Awards and British अकादमी टेलीविज़न Awards.
An online extension of the series, नायक 360 Experience, बाद rebranded as Heroes evolutions, was निर्मित to explore the Heroes universe और provides insight into the दिखाएँ 's mythology.
अन्य आधिकारिक नायक media include magazines, कार्रवाई figures, tie-in and interactive websites, a mobile game, a अनोखा, कपडे and अन्य merchandise.
In the पतन of 2008, NBC Digital Entertainment released a श्रेणी of online content for the summer, including more original web content, बेतार आईटीवी interactivity, ग्राफिक novels available लिये mobile viewing and webisodes.
NBC announced Heroes रद्दीकरण on may 14, 2010.
Afterward, the network considered बनाना a टेलीविज़न special event to conclude the श्रेणी ; however, on September 9, 2010, एनबीसी announced the decision to stop any further development of the Heroes मताधिकार.
Tim Kring तब suggested that the broad premise of नायक storylines अनुमत for the franchise to return for fans, but he किया नहीं specify when or in what media format.
On April 17, 2013, tv Line reported that MSN थी in talks to revive the श्रेणी साथ a new cast.
John pierpont `` J. p. ''
Morgan ( April 17, 1837 – कूच 31, 1913 ) was an American financier, banker, philanthropist और art collector who वर्चस्व कॉरपोरेट finance और industrial consolidation during his समय.
In 1892 Morgan arranged the merger of Edison सामान्य इलेक्ट्रिक and thomson-houston Electric Company to रूप General इलेक्ट्रिक.
After financing the creation of the Federal स्टील कम्पनी, he merged in 1901 साथ the कार्नेगी स्टील Company और several other steel और iron व्यवसायों, सहित संचित स्टील और Wire Company owned by विलियम Edenborn, to form the United राज्य स्टील निगम.
Morgan died in Rome, Italy, in उसके sleep in 1913 at the आयु of 75, leaving उसके सौभाग्य and business to his son, जॉन pierpont `` Jack '' Morgan, Jr., और bequeathing उसके mansion और large किताब संग्रहण to The Morgan पुस्तकालयों & संग्रहालय in New यॉर्क.
At the height of मॉर्गन 's करियर दौरान the जल्दी 1900s, he और उसके साझेदार था वित्तीय निवेश in many large corporations and were accused by critics of controlling the nation 's high finance.
He directed the बैंकिंग coalition that रोका the Panic of 1907.
He was the leading फाइनेंसर of the Progressive era, and his dedication to दक्षता and modernization helped transform American business.
इस is a list of एपीसोड of the television श्रेणी.
The episodes were निर्देशित by Shigeru ueda and produced by the Yggdrasil कार्यपालिका कमेटी which included Xebec and genco.
The plot of the episodes is set in Tokyo और revolves around Rin Asōgi, an immortal निजी investigator, as she explores the रहस्य of modern and near-future world and the supernatural कार्यक्रम that surround the fictional society of immortals like herself.
वहीँ are large time गैप in the आतंरिक कालक्रम between the पहला five एपीसोड, ranging इससे एक to thirty years.
The six episodes were broadcast मासिक on AT-X चैनल in जापानी, between February 3 and July 6, 2008.
Each episode is 45 minutes long.
दो pieces of theme म्यूज़िक are प्रयुक्त लिये the episodes : the opening थीम `` Alsatia '' और the समाप्ति theme `` कारण अस्तव्यस्तता ''.
Both were composed and performed by the Japanese metal band Galneryus.
the series थी उत्पादित to commemorate the दसवाँ anniversary of the at-x network it originally aired on.
aerial फ़ोटो of fletc, where US digital forensics मानकों were विकसित in the 1980s and '90s
Digital forensics ( sometimes ज्ञात as digital forensic विज्ञान ) is a branch of forensic science encompassing the recovery and छानबीन of सामग्री मिला in digital devices, प्रायः in संबंध to computer crime.
The term digital forensics was originally प्रयुक्त as a पर्याय for computer forensics but रै expanded to cover छानबीन of all डिवाइस capable of storing digital data.
साथ roots in the निजी computing क्रान्ति of the लेट 1970s and जल्दी '80s, the अनुशासन evolved in a haphazard manner during the 1990s, और it was not until the जल्दी 21st century that नेशनल policies emerged.
डिजिटल forensics investigations have a variety of अनुप्रयोग.
The most आम is to support or refute a परिकल्पना before criminal or civil ( as part of the इलेक्ट्रॉनिक discovery process ) courts.
Forensics may also विशेषता in the private सेक्टर ; such as during आतंरिक कॉरपोरेट investigations or intrusion छानबीन ( a विशेषज्ञ जांच into the प्रकृति and extent of an unauthorized network intrusion ).
the तकनीकी aspect of an investigation is divided into अनेक sub-branches, relating to the प्रकार of डिजिटल डिवाइस शामिल ; कंप्यूटर forensics, network forensics, forensic आंकड़ा विश्लेषण and मोबाईल device forensics.
the ठेठ forensic process encompasses the seizure, forensic imaging ( अधिग्रहण ) और analysis of डिजिटल media और the production of a report into एकत्रित evidence.
As खूब as identifying सीधा प्रमाण of a अपराधों, डिजिटल forensics can be used to विशेषता evidence to specific suspects, confirm alibis or कथन, determine intent, identify sources ( लिये उदाहरण, in copyright मामले ), or authenticate दस्तावेज़.
Investigations are much broader in पैमाना than अन्य areas of forensic analysis ( जहाँ the usual aim is to provide answers to a series of simpler questions ) प्रायः involving complex time-lines or hypotheses.
a comparison of the chromaticities enclosed by some color spaces.
A रंग मॉडल is an abstract गणितीय model describing the रास्ता colors can be represented as tuples of संख्याएँ, typically as तीन or four values or रंग components ( e.g. आरजीबी and cmyk are रंग मॉडल ).
however, a color मॉडल with no संबद्ध mapping फलन to an निरपेक्ष color स्पेस is a more or कम arbitrary color system साथ no connection to कोई globally understood प्रणाली of रंग निर्वचन.
adding a certain mapping function between the रंग मॉडल and a certain सन्दर्भ color space परिणाम in a definite `` footprint '' within the सन्दर्भ color स्पेस.
इस `` footprint '' is known as a gamut, and, in combination साथ the रंग मॉडल, defines a नई रंग space.
For उदाहरण, Adobe RGB and srgb हैं two different absolute रंग स्पेसेस, both based on the RGB model.
In the सबसे generic sense of the definition ऊपर, color spaces can be पारिभाषित without the use of a रंग model.
These स्पेसेस, ऐसे as Pantone, are in effect a दिए नियत of names or संख्याएँ which हैं defined by the अस्तित्व of a corresponding नियत of physical color swatches.
इस article focuses on the गणितीय model अवधारणा.
मजदूर दिन is an American संघीय holiday observed on the first Monday in सितंबर, that celebrates the economic and social contributions of मजदूर.
जीवन insurance is a contract between an insured ( insurance policy होल्डर ) and an insurer, where the insurer वादे to अदा a designated लाभार्थी a योग of money ( the `` benefits '' ) upon the death of the insured person.
Depending on the contract, अन्य events such as टर्मिनल illness or critical बीमारी may also ट्रिगर भुगतान.
The policy holder typically pays a premium, either regularly or as a lump योग.
अन्य expenses ( such as अंत्येष्टि खर्च ) हैं also sometimes शामिल in the benefits.
जीवन नीतियों are legal contracts और the terms of the contract describe the सीमाएं of the insured कार्यक्रम.
Specific exclusions are प्रायः लिखा into the contract to सीमा the liability of the insurer ; common examples हैं दावा relating to suicide, fraud, युद्ध, riot और civil commotion.
Life-based अनुबंध tend to fall into दो major categories:
Protection policies – designed to provide a benefit in the event of specified event, typically a lump sum payment.
a common रूप of इस design is term insurance.
निवेश नीतियों – where the प्रमुख objective is to facilitate the विकास of capital by नियमित or सिंगल premiums.
आम फ़ॉर्म ( in the us ) are पूरे life, universal life और variable life policies.
{ { infobox अवकाश
चाइनीज नई Year
9 – 12 फ़रवरी ( Vietnam )
Mitzi Gaynor Donahue ( born may 2, 1962 in Yorba Linda, नारंगी County, कैलिफ़ोर्निया ) is an American अभिनेत्री, also credited और more popularly known as mitzi kapture.
Kapture began her career in films, सबसे of which यहूद not huge वाणिज्यिक successes.
वो गई on to मेक a few television guest दिखावे ( MacGyver, 1st & Ten, and as a प्रतियोगी on The $ 100,000 पिरामिड ) before वो gained international exposure with her first major television role as सार्जेंट Rita ली Lance in the टेलीविज़न श्रेणी रेशा Stalkings.
kapture 's भूमिका as रीता, the other हाफ of the दो `` sams '' for almost 5 years, cemented उसके लोकप्रियता.
Paired with रोब Estes who निभाई सार्जेंट Chris lorenzo, Kapture gained global recognition साथ with her costar चूंकि the show was ब्रॉडकास्ट in अनेक countries.
Sergeant तलवार आखिरकार became Lieutenant तलवार by the time Kapture left the series in 1995 to have her first child Madison.
During उसके time साथ the श्रेणी, Kapture briefly सत in the director 's कुर्सी, लिये दो episodes.
She was interviewed लिये the Silk stalkings Season 1 dvd which was distributed by Anchor खाड़ी Entertainment and released in September 2004.
बाद a short अंतराल from the screen following her exit from Silk Stalkings, Kapture लौटे in 1997 to the छोटी screen and USA Network.
वो played lead roles in two यूएसए तस्वीरें Originals telemovies, पूर्ण अपराधों ( based on a true story, also called Hide and Seek : The जोआन जेन्सेन स्टोरी ), जिससे भी starred चमेली guy and His Bodyguard.
She later स्ट्रक्चर in a few other independent फिल्मी प्रोजेक्ट और थिएटर productions and had several टेलीविज़न अतिथि appearances.
Kapture भी था a पुनरावर्ती भूमिका on Baywatch as Alexis ryker.
She played Anita Hodges on The Young and the बेचैन इससे 2002 through 2004, where वो was credited as Mitzi kapture donahue, and स्ट्रक्चर in the made-for-TV फिल्म Night of आतंक which premiered March 26, 2006 on Lifetime संजाल.
Her नवीनतम is a supporting भूमिका in God 's Ears, released in 2007.
Kapture is the आधिकारिक celebrity spokesperson for the Xeroderma Pigmentosum Society.
the एक्सबॉक्स 360 is the दूसरी video game कंसोल developed by और produced लिये Microsoft और the successor to the एक्सबॉक्स.
The Xbox 360 competes with सोनी 's प्लेस्टेशन 3 and Nintendo 's Wii as भाग of the सातवाँ generation of video खेल consoles.
as of September 30, 2012, 70 million Xbox 360 consoles have महरूम बेची worldwide.
The Xbox 360 was officially अनावरण on MTV on May 12, 2005, with विस्तृत लॉन्च और game information divulged बाद that माह at the इलेक्ट्रॉनिक entertainment Expo ( e3 ).
The कंसोल sold आउट completely upon release in all regions except in जापानी.
अनेक major features of the एक्सबॉक्स 360 हैं its एकीकृत Xbox Live सेवा that allows players to compete online ; डाउनलोड arcade games, game demos, trailers, tv shows, म्यूज़िक and movies ; and इसके Windows Media बीच multimedia capabilities.
the एक्सबॉक्स Live also offers access to विभिन्न ( प्रायः region-specific ) third-party मीडिया streaming अनुप्रयोग.
At उनके e3 presentation on जून 14, 2010, Microsoft announced a redesigned एक्सबॉक्स 360 that would जलयान on the वही दिन.
The redesigned console is slimmer than the previous Xbox 360 model and सुविधाएँ एकीकृत 802.11 b/g/n wi-fi, TOSLINK S/PDIF optical ऑडियो output, पाँच USB 2.0 पोर्ट ( compared to the तीन from older versions ) and a special AUX बंदरगाहों.
Older models of the Xbox 360 have since महरूम discontinued.
the पहला new कंसोल to be released features a 250 GB मुश्किल drive, while a बाद, कम expensive SKU features 4 gb internal भंडार.
backpack may also refer to a 2001 novel by Emily barr
A modern backpack
स्विस army backpack ca. 1960
एकीकृत bearer फ़्रेम.
A backpack ( also called रूकसाक, knapsack, packsack, पैक ) is, in its simplest form, a cloth बोरी carried on one 's back and secured with two straps कि go over the shoulders, but वहीँ can be exceptions.
lightweight प्रकार of backpacks हैं sometimes worn on only एक shoulder strap.
Backpacks are often preferred to handbags for carrying भारी loads or carrying any sort of equipment, because of the सीमित capacity to carry heavy weights लिये long अवधि of time in the हैंड्स.
Large backpacks, used to carry loads over 10 kg ( 22 पाउंड ), usually offload the largest भाग ( up to about 90 % ) of their वज़न onto padded hip belts, leaving the shoulder straps mainly for stabilising the लोड.
This improves the potential to carry भारी loads, as the कूल्हों हैं stronger than the shoulders, और also increases agility और संतुलन, since the लोड यात्राएँ nearer the wearer 's अपना center of द्रव्यमान.
In ancient times, the backpack थी प्रयुक्त as a means to carry the शिकारी 's larger खेल and other types of शिकार and as a रास्ता of easier transport लिये other materials.
in the मामले of larger hunts, the hunters होता dismember their शिकार and distribute the pieces of the animal around, प्रत्येक one पैकिंग the meat into many wrappings and then into bags which they लगाई on to their backs.
The थैला itself थी बना up of different animal hide and skin ( depending on what sorts of animals were in the area ) और sewn साथ by the intestines of कहा पशु, जिससे were woven together tightly to मेक a sturdy thread-like material.
मैक्सिको ( ; ; ), officially the United Mexican States ( ), is a संघीय constitutional republic in उत्तर America.
It is bordered on the north by the United States ; on the दक्षिण और west by the प्रशांत Ocean ; on the southeast by Guatemala, बेलीज़, और the Caribbean Sea ; and on the east by the Gulf of मैक्सिको.
Covering almost two लाख square kilometres ( over 760,000 sq mi ), Mexico is the fifth largest country in the americas by कुल area and the 13th largest स्वतंत्र nation in the world.
साथ an estimated population of over 113 लाख, it is the world 's eleventh सबसे populous country and the सबसे populous Spanish-speaking country.
Mexico is a federation comprising thirty-one राज्य और a संघीय District, the capital city.
in pre-columbian Mexico many cultures matured into उन्नत सभ्यताओं such as the Olmec, the toltec, the teotihuacan, the Zapotec, the माया and the एज़टेक before first contact with Europeans.
In 1521, Spain conquered and colonized the territory from its base in méxico-tenochtitlan, which थी administered as the Viceroyalty of New स्पेन.
इस territory would eventually become Mexico following recognition of the उपनिवेश 's independence in 1821.
the post-independence काल was characterized by economic instability, the mexican-american War and territorial cession to the United States, a civil युद्ध, दो empires and a domestic dictatorship.
The latter led to the मैक्सिकन Revolution in 1910, which culminated with the promulgation of the 1917 Constitution and the emergence of the country 's वर्तमान राजनैतिक system.
चुनावों held in जुलाई 2000 marked the first समय कि an opposition पार्टी won the presidency इससे the Institutional Revolutionary पार्टी.
चूंकि 2006 the country has महरूम in the midst of a drug युद्ध जिससे रै caused 60,000 deaths.
Mexico रै one of the world 's largest economies, और is considered दोनो a क्षेत्रीय power and मध्य शक्ति.
in addition, मैक्सिको थी the first लैटिन अमरीकी member of the Organisation for आर्थिक Co-operation and Development oecd ( चूंकि 1994 ), and माना an upper-middle आय देश by the World Bank.
Mexico is considered a newly industrialized country और an emerging शक्ति.
it रै the fourteenth largest nominal GDP and the eleventh largest GDP by purchasing शक्ति पैरिटी.
The अर्थव्यवस्था is strongly linked to those of its North अमरीकी Free Trade अनुबंध ( nafta ) partners, especially the संयुक्त राज्य of America.
Mexico ranks छठे in the संसार and पहला in the Americas by number of UNESCO World Heritage Sites साथ 31, और in 2007 थी the दसवाँ सबसे visited country in the world with 21.4 million international arrivals प्रति year.
बेब Ruth holds the MLB करियर slugging percentage record (.690 ).
in baseball statistics, slugging percentage ( abbreviated SLG ) is a popular measure of the power of a hitter.
It is गणना as total bases divided by at bats :
जहाँ AB is the number of at-bats for a दिए खिलाड़ी, and 1B, 2b, 3B, and HR हैं the क्रमांक of singles, युगल, तिगुना, और home रनों, respectively.
Walks are specifically excluded इससे this गणना.
लिये उदाहरण, in 1920, बेब Ruth played his पहला ऋतु लिये the नई यॉर्क Yankees.
in 458 at bats, Ruth था 172 हिट्स, comprising 73 singles, 36 doubles, 9 triples, और 54 घर runs, जिससे brings the कुल आधार गिनती to ( 73 × 1 ) + ( 36 × 2 ) + ( 9 × 3 ) + ( 54 × 4 ) = 388.
उसके कुल number of bases ( 388 ) divided by his कुल at-bats ( 458 ) is.847, उसके slugging percentage for the ऋतु.
the next year he slugged.846, और these records went अखंड until 2001, जब Barry Bonds achieved 411 bases in 476 at-bats, bringing his slugging percentage to.863, unmatched since.
is a role-playing वीडियो game developed और published by वर्गाकार ( अभी Square एनिक्स ) लिये the Super Nintendo Entertainment प्रणाली in 1995.
Chrono Trigger 's विकास team included three designers कि Square dubbed the `` Dream Team '' : hironobu Sakaguchi, the creator of वर्गाकार 's फाइनल Fantasy श्रेणी ; Yuji Horii, a freelance designer and creator of एनिक्स 's लोकप्रिय Dragon क्वेस्ट series ; और अकिरा Toriyama, a freelance manga artist famed for उसके work with Dragon Quest and ड्रैगन Ball.
kazuhiko aoki produced the game, Masato Kato लिखा most of the प्लाट, जबकि composer Yasunori Mitsuda scored most of the खेल before falling बीमार and deferring बाकी tracks to Final Fantasy composer nobuo uematsu.
The game 's स्टोरी फ़ॉलो a group of adventurers जो travel through time to prevent a वैश्विक catastrophe.
Square re-released a ported version by Tose in Japan लिये Sony 's PlayStation in 1999, later repackaged साथ a Final Fantasy IV port as फाइनल काल्पनिक क्रॉनिकल्स in 2001 लिये the उत्तर American market.
a slightly enhanced chrono ट्रिगर थी released for the Nintendo DS on November 25, 2008, in North America and Japan, and went on बिक्री in Australia on February 3, 2009 and in Europe on फ़रवरी 6, 2009.
The game was never released in PAL territories पहले the Nintendo ds version.
chrono Trigger थी a critical and वाणिज्यिक success upon release and is considered आज to be one of the greatest वीडियो खेल of all समय.
निन्टेंडो Power magazine described aspects of Chrono Trigger as revolutionary, including its अनेक endings, plot-related sidequests focusing on character विकास, unique बैटल प्रणाली, and detailed ग्राफिक्स.
Chrono Trigger was the तीसरा best-selling game of 1995, and the खेल 's SNES and प्लेस्टेशन iterations have shipped 2.65 million नक़ल as of March 2003.
the संस्करण for the Nintendo ds बेची 790,000 copies as of March 2009.
chrono Trigger थी also ported to mobile phones, आभासी कंसोल, the PlayStation संजाल ( तभी in the यूएसए ), iOS devices, और Android डिवाइस.
बकरी चीज
बकरी cheese, or chèvre ( इससे the फ्रेंच word for बकरी ), is चीज बना out of the milk of goats.
अतिताप is elevated देह temperature due to विफल thermoregulation that occurs when a देह produces or absorbs more heat than it dissipates.
Extreme temperature elevation तब becomes a medical emergency requiring immediate treatment to prevent disability or मौत.
The most common causes include ऊष्मा स्ट्रोक और adverse reactions to drugs.
The former is an acute temperature elevation caused by exposure to excessive ऊष्मा, or combination of heat and humidity, कि overwhelms the heat-regulating mechanisms.
the latter is a relatively rare पक्ष effect of many drugs, विशेषकर those that affect the सेंट्रल बेचैन प्रणाली.
malignant hyperthermia is a rare complication of some types of सामान्य एनेस्थीसिया.
Hyperthermia can also be deliberately induced using drugs or medical devices and may be used in the treatment of some kinds of cancer and other शर्तें, सबसे commonly in conjunction with radiotherapy.
Hyperthermia differs from ज्वर in that the देह 's तापमान set point remains अपरिवर्तित.
the opposite is hypothermia, which occurs जब the temperature बूंदें नीचे that जरूरी to maintain normal चयापचय.
बेलीज़, is a country located on the northeastern coast of Central America.
It is the तभी देश in the क्षेत्रफल जहाँ English is the official language, although Kriol और स्पेनी हैं more commonly spoken.
Belize is bordered on the north by मैक्सिको, to the south और west by Guatemala and to the east by the Caribbean Sea.
Its mainland is about long and चौड़ी.
With of जमीन और a जनसांख्यिकी of तभी 312,698 inhabitants ( 2010 census ), Belize possesses the न्यूनतम population density in सेंट्रल अमेरिका.
the country 's population growth rate of 3.15 % ( 2012 est. ) is the दूसरी highest in the region and one of the highest in the western गोलार्ध.
Belize 's abundance of स्थलीय and समुद्री प्रजाति, and its diversity of ecosystems give it a कुंजी place within the globally significant mesoamerican biological corridor.
बेलीज़ has a विविध समाज, comprising many संस्कृतियों और भाषाएं.
It is the only nation in the region with a British औपनिवेशिक heritage, but as a part of the पश्चिमी Caribbean मण्डल, it also साझा a common heritage with the fellow Anglophone caribbean countries.
In general, Belize is considered to be a सेंट्रल American और Caribbean स्वदेश with strong ties to दोनो the Caribbean and Latin अमेरिका.
बेलीज़ is a member of the caribbean Community ( CARICOM ), the Community of लैटिन American and caribbean States ( CELAC ), and सेंट्रल अमरीकी संयोजन System ( SICA ).
बेलीज़ is ज्ञात लिये इसके सितंबर Celebrations, और is the birthplace of chewing gum और punta Rock.
The `` Betsy Ross '' ध्वज
a `` Betsy Ross '' flag उड़ती outside San Francisco नगर Hall
The Betsy Ross ध्वज is an जल्दी design of the ध्वज of the United States, popularly attributed to Betsy रॉस, using the आम motifs of alternating red-and-white धारीदार field with five-pointed stars in a blue canton.
The flag was designed दौरान the American Revolution and features 13 stars to represent the original 13 colonies.
The distinctive विशेषता of the Ross ध्वज is the व्यवस्था of the stars in a circle.
Although the Betsy Ross story is accepted by most Americans, कुछ flag historians और revisionists do not accept the Betsy Ross design as the first American flag.
According to the traditional account, the original flag was बना in June 1776, when a small committee—including George वॉशिंगटन, Robert Morris and सापेक्ष George रॉस —visited Betsy और discussed the need for a new अमरीकी flag.
बेट्सी accepted the job to manufacture the flag, altering the committee 's डिज़ाइन by replacing the six-pointed सितारों with five-pointed stars.
While the बेट्सी Ross लेजेंड is questionable, the flag design is ज्ञात to have been in use by 1777 ; अल्फ्रेड B. गली described it at the surrender of सामान्य Burgoyne and understood the circle of सितारों to represent equality among the अमरीकी राज्य.
It is एक of the oldest संस्करण of U.S. flags known to मौजूद ; जबकि it is नहीं the oldest surviving ध्वज artifact in cloth रूप, its likeness appears on पुरानी physical relics, namely, the contemporary रणभूमि paintings by जॉन Trumbull and Charles willson Peale.
They depict the गोलाकार star व्यवस्था being flown from ship masts and अनेक अन्य स्थान, and यूँ provide the first known historical documentation of the ध्वज 's appearance.
The seal of the U.S. Department of Veterans अफेयर्स uses the Betsy रॉस flag to represent सेवा to all दिग्गजों from the American Revolution to the उपस्थित day.
the Betsy Ross डिज़ाइन of 13-star US flags has महरूम featured in अनेक लोकप्रिय artworks ( sometimes inaccurately, as in वॉशिंगटन क्रासिंग the Delaware ) और films, such as the 1960 संस्करण of Pollyanna.
The flag continues to be एक of the most लोकप्रिय symbols of the American Revolution.
A purr is a ध्वनि बना by all species of felids and is a भाग of cat communication.
It varies between cats ( for उदाहरण by loudness और tone ), and इससे प्रजाति to प्रजाति, but can be characterized as a tonal buzzing.
the पद `` purring '' has been प्रयुक्त liberally in literature, और it has been claimed कि viverrids ( सीविट, नेवला, genet ), bears, badgers, hyaenas ( et cetera ) purr.
अन्य animals that have महरूम said to purr are खरगोश, squirrels, guinea pigs, tapirs, ring-tailed lemurs, हाथियों, raccoons and gorillas while eating.
However, using a सख्त definition of purring that निरन्तर sound उत्पादन must वैकल्पिक between pulmonic egressive and ingressive airstream ( and usually go on for मिनट्स ), पीटर्स ( 2002 ), in an exhaustive review of the वैज्ञानिक literature, पहुँचे the conclusion कि जबतक तब तभी ‘purring cats’ ( Felidae ) और दो species of genets, Genetta tigrina, and सबसे संभावित भी Genetta genetta, had महरूम documented to purr.
The platypus ( ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic स्तनधारी endemic to eastern Australia, सहित Tasmania.
साथ साथ the चार species of echidna, it is one of the पाँच extant species of monotremes, the only स्तनधारियों कि lay अंडे बजाय of giving birth.
It is the sole living प्रतिनिधि of its family ( ornithorhynchidae ) और genus ( ornithorhynchus ), हालांकि a number of सम्बन्धित species have been मिला in the fossil रिकार्ड.
the unusual रूप of इस egg-laying, duck -billed, beaver -tailed, otter -footed mammal मनोरथ European naturalists when they first encountered it, साथ some considering it an elaborate fraud.
It is एक of the few venomous स्तनधारियों, the male platypus having a spur on the hind पैर that delivers a venom सक्षम of causing severe पीड़ा to इंसानो.
the अद्वितीय features of the platypus make it an महत्वपूर्ण subject in the study of evolutionary biology and a recognisable and iconic symbol of Australia ; it has appeared as a mascot at national events and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent सिक्का.
the platypus is the animal emblem of the state of New दक्षिण Wales.
जबतक the जल्दी 20th century, it थी hunted for इसके फर, but it is अभी सुरक्षित throughout its range.
हालांकि captive breeding programmes have था तभी limited success और the platypus is vulnerable to the effects of pollution, it is not under any immediate threat.
st. एलिज़ाबेथ is a village in Miller काउंटी, मिसौरी, संयुक्त States.
The जनसांख्यिकी was 336 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
Wilton is a census-designated place ( CDP ) in Sacramento काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, United States.
it is part of the sacramento – Arden-Arcade – Roseville महानगर सांख्यिकीय Area.
The population थी 5,363 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, up इससे 4,551 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
In human-computer बातचीत, cut और paste और copy and paste are सम्बन्धित commands कि प्रस्ताव a user-interface बातचीत technique for transferring टेक्स्ट, data, फाइलें or objects from a source to a destination.
सबसे ubiquitously, उपयोक्ता require the क्षमता to काटें and paste sections of plain text.
the cut command removes the चयनित आंकड़ा from its original position, while the copy command creates a duplicate ; in both मामले the selected data is placed in a clipboard.
the data in the clipboard is बाद inserted in the स्थिति where the paste command is issued.
The कमांड names are an interface metaphor based on the शारीरिक कार्यविधि used in manuscript editing to बनाएँ a page लेआउट.
इस बातचीत तकनीक रै close associations with related techniques in graphical user interfaces कि उपयोग pointing डिवाइस ऐसे as a computer mouse ( by खीचें and drop, for example ).
आर्थिक अनुक्रम मात्रा is the अनुक्रम quantity that minimizes कुल inventory holding costs and ordering costs.
it is एक of the oldest शास्त्रीय production scheduling मॉडल.
The फ्रेमवर्क प्रयुक्त to determine इस अनुक्रम मात्रा is भी ज्ञात as barabas EOQ Model or Barabas Formula.
The model was developed by Ford W. Harris in 1913, but R. H. Wilson, a सलाहकार who लागू it extensively, is given क्रेडिट लिये his in-depth विश्लेषण.
स्टीफन `` Stevie '' रे Vaughan ( October 3, 1954 – August 27, 1990 ) was an अमरीकी guitarist, singer-songwriter, और record producer.
Often referred to by his initials SRV, Vaughan is बेहतरीन known as a founding member and leader of Double ट्रबल.
Together साथ drummer क्रिस Layton and bassist टॉमी शैनन, they ignited the blues पुनरुद्धार of the 1980s.
With a करियर spanning सात सालो, vaughan and दोगुना Trouble consistently sold out कॉन्सर्ट while उनके एल्बम frequently went gold.
He was born और raised in डलास, Texas, and for a short काल of समय जिया in Graham, टेक्सास.
As the younger brother of Jimmie vaughan, Vaughan started playing the guitar at आयु सात और formed अनेक bands that occasionally performed in local nightclubs.
at age 17, he dropped आउट of ऊँची school और स्थानांतरित to ऑस्टिन to further pursue उसके musical career, joining समूह such as krackerjack, the nightcrawlers, और the cobras.
In 1977, he formed ट्रिपल Threat Revue, a band कि eventually evolved into दोगुना ट्रबल और regularly performed around ऑस्टिन.
In 1982, Vaughan और Double ट्रबल performed at the montreux जैज़ Festival in Switzerland, catching the attention of संगीतकारों David बोवी और जैक्सन Browne.
Bowie asked Vaughan to play on उसके upcoming स्टुडियो album let 's Dance, while browne offered the band free उपयोग of his personal स्टुडियो in Los Angeles to रिकार्ड an album.
In March 1983, Vaughan and Double ट्रबल were signed to एपिक Records by veteran रिकार्ड producer जॉन Hammond Sr. and released their debut album, Texas Flood in June of that year.
After कामयाब touring, the समूह released the एल्बम, Could n't Stand the मौसम ( 1984 ) और Soul to Soul ( 1985 ), the latter of which प्रदर्शित नई keyboardist Reese wynans.
Although his career had progressed सफलतापूर्वक, vaughan checked into a पुनर्वास hospital in अटलांटा, Georgia to give up a कोका and alcohol आदत और returned to touring with the band.
In June 1989, In Step थी released और earned them a Grammy Award for बेहतरीन समकालीन Blues प्रदर्शन.
On अगस्त 27, 1990, Vaughan was killed in a हेलीकाप्टर crash following a performance in ईस्ट Troy, Wisconsin.
vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet तीव्र स्टाइल was derived from a किस्में of musical जाति.
He was बहकावे by blues musicians सहित अल्बर्ट King, Freddie किंग, Otis फटाफट, और Muddy Waters, and चट्टान guitarists ऐसे as Jimi Hendrix और Lonnie Mack.
उसके गिटार playing reflected the classic blues और pentatonic तराजू.
he रै प्राप्त wide critical recognition for his गिटार playing, रैंकिंग at # 6 on Rolling Stones list of `` 100 महानतम guitarists '' in 2011.
He was posthumously inducted into the Blues हॉल of Fame in 2000 and a memorial statue was erected in Austin 's ऑडिटोरियम Shores park.
स्टीवी Ray Vaughan is widely considered to be one of the greatest musicians to come इससे the state of Texas.
the लास Vegas स्ट्रिप संसार of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a कार्बोनेटेड नरम drink sold in stores, restaurants, and वेंडिंग machines in प्रत्येक country except क्यूबा and North Korea.
It is उत्पादित by The coca-cola Company of Atlanta, जॉर्जिया, and is often referred to बस as कोक ( a पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क of The Coca-Cola कम्पनी in the संयुक्त States चूंकि कूच 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a patent medicine जब it थी invented in the late 19th century by जॉन pemberton, coca-cola was bought out by businessman Asa griggs Candler, whose marketing tactics led कोक to इसके dominance of the world soft-drink मार्केट throughout the 20th century.
The कम्पनी produces concentrate, which is तब sold to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the संसार.
the bottlers, who hold territorially विशेष अनुबंध साथ the company, produce समाप्त product in डिब्बे और बोतलों from the concentrate in संयोजन with filtered water और sweeteners.
the bottlers then बेचें, वितरित and merchandise coca-cola to retail stores and vending machines.
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola उद्यमों, जिससे is the largest single Coca-Cola bottler in North अमेरिका and western Europe.
the Coca-Cola Company भी बिकता concentrate लिये सोडा fountains to प्रमुख restaurants और खाना सेवा वितरकों.
The Coca-Cola कम्पनी has, on occasion, introduced अन्य cola drinks under the Coke brand नाम.
the most common of these is Diet Coke, with अन्य सहित Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola, आहार Coke caffeine-free, Coca-Cola चेरी, Coca-Cola शून्य, coca-cola Vanilla, और special versions with नीबू, लाइम or coffee.
Based on Interbrand 's best global brand 2011, Coca-Cola थी the संसार 's most valuable ब्रांड.
Barry लुई larkin ( born April 28, 1964 ) is a retired Major लीग Baseball खिलाड़ी.
Larkin निभाई shortstop for the सिनसिनाटी Reds from 1986 to 2004 and थी एक of the pivotal खिलाड़ी on the 1990 Reds ' World Series चैंपियनशिप टोली.
Larkin थी निर्वाचित to the National बेसबॉल हॉल of Fame in January 2012 और थी inducted on जुलाई 22.
Larkin is माना एक of the शीर्ष players of उसके era, winning nine चांदी slugger पुरस्कार and three Gold Glove awards.
He was selected to the Major लीग all-star Game twelve टाइम्स, और was elected the 1995 National League Most Valuable खिलाड़ी.
brasília ( ) is the federal capital of ब्राज़ील and the सीट of government of the संघीय District.
Administratively, the नगर is located in the Federal ज़िला which is in the central-west Region.
Physically, it is स्तिथ in the Brazilian Highlands.
It has a जनसांख्यिकी of परिचय 2,562,963 ( 3,716,996 in the metropolitan area ) as of the 2008 ibge अनुमान, making it the fourth largest city in ब्राज़ील.
however, as a metropolitan area, it ranks lower at sixth in population.
brasília is the largest नगर in the world that किया नहीं exist at the शुरूआत of the 20th century.
Brasília has the fifth largest GDP among लैटिन American cities और the third in Brazil.
at around R $ 62,000 ब्राज़ीलियाई reais ( equal to approximately $ 30,900 us dollars or €23,000 euros ), the city 's per capita income is the उच्चतम among ब्राज़ील 's largest cities.
As the national पूंजी, Brasília is the seat of all three शाखाओं of the federal government of Brazil.
the city also होस्ट the headquarters of many ब्राज़ीलियाई कंपनियाँ.
Planning policies such as the स्थान of आवासीय इमारतें around expansive शहरी areas, as well as भवन the city around विशाल avenues और dividing it into sectors, have sparked a बहस और reflection on जीवन in big शहरों in the 20th सदी.
The नगर 's डिज़ाइन divides it into गिने blocks as खूब as sectors लिये specified activities, such as the Hotel Sector, the बैंकिंग Sector or the Embassy Sector.
Brasília होस्ट 124 विदेशी embassies.
The city was planned and developed in 1956 साथ Lúcio Costa as the principal urban प्लानर, Oscar Niemeyer as the principal architect और Roberto burle मार्क्स as the landscape designer.
Brasilia is in the Unesco 's World Hertitage List due to its architecture.
On अप्रैल 22, 1960, it formally became ब्राज़ील 's नेशनल capital.
viewed इससे above, the main portion of the नगर resembles an वायुयान or a butterfly.
The city is commonly referred to as पूंजी संघीय, or simply bsb.
निवासियों of Brasília are known as brasilienses or candangos ( the latter referring to those not born in the city लकिन who migrated वहीँ after it was स्थापित ).
In local उपयोग, the शब्द `` Brasília '' usually refers तभी to the पहला Administrative Region ( RA i ) भीतर the Federal District ( distrito संघीय ), where the most महत्वपूर्ण government इमारतें are located.
brasília रै a अद्वितीय status in Brazil, as it is an administrative division rather than a विधिक municipality like nearly all cities in Brazil.
Nationally, the पद is almost सदा प्रयुक्त synonymously with the संघीय District, जिससे constitutes an indivisible Federative Unit, analogous to a state.
Several `` satellite शहरों '' मौजूद जिससे हैं भी भाग of the Federal District.
Brasília International Airport is the प्रमुख airport in brasília, connecting the पूंजी to all major ब्राज़ीलियाई cities और many अंतरराष्ट्रीय destinations.
It is the third सबसे महत्वपूर्ण विमानक्षेत्र in ब्राज़ील, in terms of passengers और aircraft आंदोलनों.
personifications of जर्मनी, France, Russia, Austria-Hungary, और the United Kingdom attempting to रखना the ढक्कन on the simmering cauldron of imperialist and राष्ट्रवादी tensions in the Balkans to prevent a सामान्य यूरोपीय war.
They यहूद कामयाब in 1912 और 1913 लकिन did not सफल in in 1914.
The causes of संसार War I, जिससे began in सेंट्रल यूरोपीय in लेट जुलाई 1914 and finished in 1918, शामिल अनेक कारकों, such as the conflicts and hostility of the चार दशकों leading up to the war.
Militarism, alliances, imperialism, and nationalism played major भूमिकाएँ in the conflict as खूब.
the immediate origins of the युद्ध, however, lay in the निर्णय taken by statesmen and generals दौरान the Crisis of 1914, casus belli for which was the हत्या of archduke Franz Ferdinand ( the Archduke of ऑस्ट्रिया Hungary ) and his बीवी Sophie by gavrilo Princip, an irredentist serb.
The crisis आए बाद a long and difficult series of राजनयिक clashes between the Great शक्तियां ( Italy, France, जर्मनी, the British साम्राज्य, the Austria-Hungarian Empire and रूस ) over यूरोपीय और औपनिवेशिक issues in the decade पहले 1914 that had left tensions high.
In turn ये diplomatic clashes can be traced to परिवर्तन in the संतुलन of power in Europe since 1867.
the अधिक तात्कालिक कारण for the युद्ध was tensions over territory in the Balkans.
Austria-Hungary competed साथ Serbia और रूस लिये territory and influence in the region और they pulled the बाकी of the ग्रेट Powers into the विरोध through their various alliances and treaties.
Although the chain of कार्यक्रम unleashed by the assassination triggered the war, the war 's origins go deeper, involving नेशनल politics, cultures, अर्थशास्त्र, and a complex web of alliances and counterbalances कि had विकसित between the various European powers since 1870.
कुछ of the most महत्वपूर्ण long term or संरचनात्मक कल्याणकारी are : the growth of nationalism आरपार Europe, unresolved territorial disputes, an intricate प्रणाली of alliances, the perceived breakdown of the संतुलन of power in यूरोपीय, convoluted and fragmented governance, the arms races of the पिछला decades, previous military planning, इम्पीरियल and औपनिवेशिक rivalry for wealth, power और prestige, और आर्थिक and military फंसने in उद्योग and व्यापार – e.g., the सुअर War between Austria and सर्बिया.
Other कल्याणकारी that came into खेल दौरान the राजनयिक crisis that preceded the war included misperceptions of intent ( e.g., the जर्मनी belief that the United Kingdom होता remain न्यूट्रल ) and delays and misunderstandings in राजनयिक communications.
The various categories of स्पष्टीकरण for World War i correspond to different इतिहासकारों ' overall methods.
सबसे historians और popular commentators शामिल causes from more than one category of explanation to provide a rounded account of the कल्याणकारी of the war.
the deepest distinction among ये accounts is between stories that see it as the अपरिहार्य and predictable निष्कर्ष of निश्चित कारकों, और those that describe it as an arbitrary and unfortunate mistake.
In attributing causes for the war, historians and लड had to deal with an unprecedented flood of memoirs और official documents, released as प्रत्येक country शामिल tried to avoid दोष लिये starting the war.
Early releases of information by governments, particularly those released लिये use by the `` Commission on the Responsibility of the Authors of the War '' were shown to be incomplete and पक्षपातपूर्ण.
In addition some दस्तावेज़, विशेषकर राजनयिक cables between रूस और फ़्रांस, यहूद found to have महरूम doctored.
भी in बाद दशकों however, when much अधिक सूचना had been released, इतिहासकारों from the same culture have महरूम shown to come to differing conclusions on the causes of the war.
Johnson 's नई chart of नेशनल emblems, published c. 1868.
The विशाल flags दिखाया in the corners are the 37-star flag of the United States ( flown 1867-1877 ), the royal Standard of the United किंगडम, the Russian Imperial Standard, और the फ्रेंच tricolore साथ inset इम्पीरियल Eagle.
विभिन्न अन्य flags flown by ships are shown.
The Flag of क्यूबा is labelled `` Cuban ( so पुकारा ) ``.
The Chinese dragon on the ध्वज of China was drawn mistakenly as a western ड्रैगन.
a national ध्वज is a flag that symbolizes a देश.
The flag is flown by the सरकारी, but प्रायः can भी be flown by citizens of the देश.
दोनो पब्लिक and निजी buildings ऐसे as स्कूलों और courthouses may मक्खी the नेशनल ध्वज.
In कुछ countries, the नेशनल flags हैं only flown इससे non-military इमारतें on certain ध्वज दिनों.
There हैं three distinct types of national flag for use on land, and three for use at sea, हालांकि many देशों use identical डिजाइन लिये अनेक ( and sometimes सब ) of these types of ध्वज.
the अमरीकी Civil War ( ACW ), भी known as the War between the States or simply the सिविल War ( देखिए naming ), थी a civil war लड़ा from 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` North '' ) और अनेक Southern slave states that declared उनके secession and formed the Confederate राज्य of America ( the `` confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had इसके उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of slavery, especially the extension of slavery into the western territories.
Foreign powers किया नहीं intervene.
After चार सालो of bloody कॉम्बैट that बाएँ over 600,000 soldiers मुर्दे और destroyed much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना, the confederacy collapsed, गुलामी थी abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction प्रक्रम of restoring नेशनल unity and guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed slaves began.
in the 1860 presidential चुनाव, Republicans, led by Abraham lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into United राज्य ' territories.
lincoln won, but पहले his उद्घाटन on कूच 4, 1861, seven cotton-based स्लेव states formed the confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic अध्यक्ष James Buchanan and the आवक Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
lincoln 's inaugural address घोषित उसके administration होता not initiate civil युद्ध.
Eight बाकी slave states जारी to reject काल्स for secession.
Confederate शक्तियां seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to ढूँढें a सुलह, और both sides prepared लिये war.
The confederates assumed that European देशों were so dependent on `` किंग Cotton `` कि they would intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना the new Confederate States of अमेरिका.
hostilities began on अप्रैल 12, 1861, जब confederate forces fired upon फोर्ट sumter, a key फोर्ट held by Union troops in South कैरोलिना.
Lincoln पुकारा for प्रत्येक state to provide सैनिकों to retake the fort ; consequently, चार अधिक slave राज्य joined the Confederacy, bringing उनके कुल to eleven.
the संघ जल्द controlled the border राज्य and स्थापित a नवल blockade that अबोध the दक्षिणी economy.
the Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with confederate retreat at the बैटल of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, जिससे made ending गुलामी a युद्ध goal.
to the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the confederate river navy, then much of उनके western armies, और the संघ at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
in 1863, Robert E. ली 's confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
पश्चिमी सफलताओं led to Ulysses S. Grant कमांड of सब संघ सेना in 1864.
In the पश्चिमी Theater, विलियम T. Sherman drove east to कैप्चर Atlanta और marched to the sea, destroying confederate infrastructure साथ the way.
the Union marshaled the संसाधन and manpower to आक्रमण the Confederacy from सब directions, and could afford to fight लड़ाइयों of attrition through the overland Campaign towards रिचमंड, the Confederate पूंजी.
the defending confederate army failed, अग्रणी to Lee 's surrender to ग्रान्ट at Appomattox अदालत हाउस on April 9, 1865.
The अमरीकी Civil War was one of the earliest सच्चा industrial wars.
railroads, the telegraph, steamships, और mass-produced weapons यहूद employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, transportation और खाना supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest युद्ध in अमरीकी history, resulting in the मौतों of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian हताहत.
इतिहासकार John Huddleston estimates the death toll at टेन percent of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 years old, और 30 percent of सब दक्षिणी श्वेत males aged 18–40.
norrie बीमारी is a genetic disorder that primarily affects the नजर और almost always leads to दृष्टिहीनता.
In addition to the जन्मजात ocular लक्षण, कुछ मरीजों suffer from a प्रगतिशील hearing घाटा starting ज़्यादातर in उनके 2nd दशक of life, जबकि another portion may be मानसिक challenged.
Patients with Norrie बीमारी may develop cataracts, leukocoria ( a condition where the pupils appear white when लाइट is shone on उन्हें ), साथ साथ other developmental issues in the नजर, ऐसे as shrinking of the ग्लोब and the wasting दूर of the iris.
around 30–50 % of उन्हें होगा also have developmental डेलाy/ mental retardation, psychotic-like features, incoordination of आंदोलनों or behavioral abnormalities.
सबसे patients हैं born साथ normal hearing ; however, the onset of hearing घाटा is very common in early किशोरावस्था.
About 15 % of the मरीजों are estimated to develop सब the features of the बीमारी.
the बीमारी affects almost only male infants at जनम or soon बाद जनम, because the disease is inherited x-linked recessive.
तभी in very rare cases, महिलाओं have महरूम diagnosed with Norrie बीमारी as well.
The exact incidence number is अनजान ; only a few सौ मामले have महरूम reported so far.
it is a very rare विकार that is नहीं associated with कोई विशिष्ट ethnic or racial समूह.
A contract is an अनुबंध having a lawful ऑब्जेक्ट entered into voluntarily by दो or more parties, each of whom intends to create एक or more legal obligations between उन्हें.
The elements of a contract हैं `` offer '' and `` acceptance '' by `` competent persons '' having legal capacity who एक्सचेंज `` consideration '' to बनाएँ `` mutuality of obligation. ''
Proof of some or all of ये तत्व may be किया in writing, though अनुबंध may be made entirely orally or by conduct.
the remedy लिये breach of contract can be `` क्षतिपूर्ति '' in the रूप of मुआवजे of money or विशिष्ट performance enforced through an injunction.
Both of these remedies award the party at loss the `` benefit of the bargain '' or expectation damages, which हैं वृहद than mere reliance damages, as in promissory estoppel.
The parties may be natural व्यक्तियों or juristic व्यक्तियों.
a अनुबंध is a legally enforceable वादा or undertaking that कुछ will or will not occur.
The word promise can be used as a legal पर्याय लिये contract, हालांकि care is जरूरी as a वादा may नहीं have the full standing of a contract, as when it is an अनुबंध बगैर विचार.
अनुबंध विधि varies greatly इससे एक क्षेत्राधिकार to another, including मतभेद in common विधि compared to सिविल law, the impact of प्राप्त विधि, particularly इससे England in common law countries, और of law codified in regional विधान.
regarding Australian Contract Law for example, वहीँ are 40 प्रासंगिक acts which प्रभाव on the interpretation of contract at the Commonwealth ( संघीय / नेशनल ) स्तर, and an अतिरिक्त 26 acts at the level of the राज्य of nsw.
In addition there हैं 6 अंतरराष्ट्रीय यंत्र or conventions which हैं applicable for अंतरराष्ट्रीय dealings, such as the United राष्ट्र Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of goods.
asp.net is a server-side वेब अनुप्रयोग framework designed लिये वेब development to produce डायनेमिक Web पृष्ठों.
it was developed by microsoft to allow programmers to निर्माण dynamic web sites, web applications and वेब services.
it थी पहला released in जनवरी 2002 साथ version 1.0 of the.neT Framework, और is the successor to microsoft 's क्रियाशील Server Pages ( asp ) technology.
ASP.NET is निर्मित on the आम भाषा Runtime ( CLR ), allowing programmers to लिखें ASP.NET कोड using any supported.NET language.
The asp.net साबुन एक्सटेंशन फ्रेमवर्क allows asp.net components to प्रक्रम SOAP messages.
lysergic एसिड diethylamide, abbreviated एलएसडी or LSD-25, भी known as lysergide ( INN ) and colloquially as acid, is a semisynthetic psychedelic drug of the ergoline family, खूब known लिये इसके psychological effects जिससे can include altered thinking processes, closed and खोलें eye visuals, synesthesia, an altered भाव of time and spiritual अनुभवों, as well as for its कुंजी भूमिका in 1960s counterculture.
it is प्रयुक्त mainly as an entheogen, recreational drug, और as an agent in psychedelic चिकित्सा.
एलएसडी is non-addictive, is नहीं known to cause brain damage, and रै extremely low toxicity सापेक्ष to dose.
However, adverse psychiatric प्रतिक्रियाएँ such as anxiety, paranoia, and delusions are संभावित.
LSD was first synthesized by Albert Hofmann in 1938 from ergotamine, a रासायनिक निकला by आर्थर stoll इससे ergot, a grain कवक that typically grows on rye.
the short form `` LSD '' comes from its early कोड name LSD-25, जिससे is an संक्षिप्त for the जर्मनी `` Lysergsäure-diethylamid '' followed by a sequential क्रमांक.
LSD is संवेदनशील to oxygen, ultraviolet light, and chlorine, विशेषकर in solution, though its potency may last लिये years if it is stored away from लाइट and नमी at low तापमान.
In pure form it is a colorless, गंधहीन, tasteless solid.
एलएसडी is typically वितरित orally, usually on a substrate such as absorbent blotter paper, a शुगर घन, or जिलेटिन.
in its liquid रूप, it can भी be administered by intramuscular or intravenous injection.
LSD is बहुत potent, साथ 20–30 μg ( micrograms ) होने the threshold dose.
New experiments with LSD प्रारंभ in 2009 लिये the पहला time in 40 सालो.
introduced by sandoz Laboratories, साथ trade-name delysid, as a drug साथ विभिन्न मनोरोग उपयोग in 1947, LSD quickly became a therapeutic एजेंट that appeared to दिखाएँ great promise.
In the 1950s, officials at the u.S. Central Intelligence Agency ( CIA ) thought the ड्रग might be applicable to दिमाग control and chemical warfare ; the एजेंसी 's mkultra research program propagated the drug among young servicemen और विद्यार्थी.
The subsequent recreational use of the drug by youth संस्कृति in the Western संसार दौरान the 1960s led to a political firestorm that resulted in इसके prohibition.
Currently, a क्रमांक of organizations—including the Beckley न्यास, MAPS, Heffter Research Institute and the अल्बर्ट Hofmann Foundation—exist to fund, encourage and coordinate research into the medicinal और आध्यात्मिक उपयोग of LSD और सम्बन्धित psychedelics.
The संयुक्त राज्य नेवी 's Sea, Air, Land टीमों, commonly known as the Navy SEALs, are the u.S. Navy 's principal खास operations फ़ोर्स और a part of the नवल Special Warfare कमांड and United States खास Operations Command.
`` मुहर '' is सदा capitalized in reference to members of the Naval Special Warfare community.
The एक्रोनिम is derived from their capacity to operate at sea, in the एयर, and on land.
SEALs are male members of the संयुक्त राज्य Navy.
an exchange कार्यक्रम साथ the coast गार्ड, जिससे ग्रैजुएट three Coast Guardsmen as SEALs, was suspended in 2011.
The CIA 's अत्यधिक secretive Special Activities Division ( उदास ) और अधिक specifically its elite खास Operations Group ( SOG ) recruits operators इससे the मुहर Teams.
संयुक्त Navy seals और CIA operations go वापस to the famed macv-sog दौरान the Vietnam War.
This सहयोग still exists today and is देखी in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and in the finding और killing of ओसामा बिन Laden in Pakistan.
संसार population estimates from 1800 to 2100, based on UN 2010 projections ( red, orange, ग्रीन ) और us Census Bureau ऐतिहासिक estimates ( black ).
Actual recorded population figures are in blue.
according to the उच्चतम estimate, the world जनसांख्यिकी may वृद्धि to 16 अरब by 2100 ; according to the lowest अनुमान, it may मनाही to 6 billion.
the संसार population is the कुल क्रमांक of जीना humans on धरती.
As of today, it is estimated to क्रमांक billion by the संयुक्त States Census Bureau ( uscb ).
the USCB estimates that the संसार जनसांख्यिकी exceeded 7 billion on कूच 12, 2012.
according to a separate estimate by the संयुक्त Nations Population Fund, it reached this पड़ाव on अक्तूबर 31, 2011.
The world population has अनुभवी निरन्तर growth since the end of the ग्रेट अकाल और the Black Death in 1350, जब it stood at around 370 million.
The highest rates of growth – वैश्विक population increases above 1.8 % प्रति year – यहूद seen briefly दौरान the 1950s, and लिये a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s.
The विकास rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, and had अस्वीकृत to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total सालाना births यहूद highest in the लेट 1980s at परिचय 138 million, and हैं now अपेक्षित to remain essentially निरंतर at their 2011 स्तर of 134 million, while मौतों क्रमांक 56 million per year, and are अपेक्षित to increase to 80 million per year by 2040.
Current projections show a continued increase in जनसांख्यिकी in the निकट भविष्य ( लकिन a steady decline in the जनसांख्यिकी growth rate ), साथ the वैश्विक population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
विभिन्न longer-term estimates भविष्यवाणी further growth, stagnation, or even overall decline in the वैश्विक population by 2150.
कुछ analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population growth, citing the growing pressures on the पर्यावरण, global खाना आपूर्तियाँ, and energy संसाधन.
मेम्फिस is a city in the southwestern corner of the u.S. राज्य of टेनेसी, and the काउंटी सीट of Shelby County.
The नगर is located on the 4th chickasaw bluff, south of the confluence of the Wolf और Mississippi नदियाँ.
Memphis था a population of 672,277 in 2011 making it the largest city in the state of Tennessee, the largest नगर on the मिसिसिपी River, the third largest in the Southeastern संयुक्त States, and the 20th largest in the संयुक्त States.
The वृहद मेम्फिस metropolitan area, including सटा counties in Mississippi and अरकंसास, था a 2010 population of 1,316,100.
This makes Memphis the second largest metropolitan क्षेत्रफल in टेनेसी, surpassed only by महानगर Nashville, which रै overtaken मेम्फिस in recent years.
Memphis is the youngest of Tennessee 's major शहरों.
A निवासी of Memphis is referred to as a memphian, and the Memphis प्रदेश is known, विशेषकर to media outlets, as `` Memphis & The mid-south ``.
The Cattenom नाभिकीय Power संयंत्र in France.
France produces around तीन quarters of its electricity by नाभिकीय power.
The Grafenrheinfeld नाभिकीय शक्ति Plant in Germany.
चांसलर Angela Merkel 's coalition घोषित on May 30, 2011, that germany’s 17 nuclear शक्ति स्टेशन will be shut down by 2022, in a नीति reversal following Japan 's Fukushima daiichi nuclear disaster.
Currently, 68 reactors are अंतर्गत construction in 15 देशों.
नाभिकीय power stations operate in thirty countries.
In 2010, before the फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय disaster, it was reported that an average of about 10 nuclear reactors were अपेक्षित to become operational per year, although according to the World Nuclear Association, of the 17 civilian reactors planned to become operational between 2007 and 2009, only पाँच दरअसल came on stream.
as of जून 2011, Germany and Switzerland हैं phasing-out नाभिकीय power.
as of June 2011, देशों such as ऑस्ट्रेलिया, ऑस्ट्रिया, Denmark, Greece, आयरलैंड, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, माल्टा, नई Zealand, नार्वे and Portugal remain opposed to नाभिकीय power.
skeletal मांसपेशियां homo sapiens
इस is a तालिका of मांसपेशियां of the human anatomy.
There हैं approximately 642 skeletal मांसपेशियां within the typical इंसान, and almost every muscle constitutes एक part of a जोड़ी of identical द्विपक्षीय muscles, मिला on दोनो sides, resulting in लगभग 320 pairs of मांसपेशियां, as प्रस्तुत in this article.
nevertheless, the सटीक number is मुश्किल to define because अलग sources group मांसपेशियां differently, e.g. regarding what is पारिभाषित as different parts of a single muscle or as अनेक muscles.
Examples range from 640 to 850.
The मांसपेशियां of the इंसान देह can be categorized into a number of समूह which शामिल muscles relating to the सिर and neck, मांसपेशियां of the धड़ or ट्रंक, muscles of the upper limbs, and मांसपेशियां of the lower limbs.
The कार्रवाई refers to the कार्रवाई of each मांसपेशी from the मानक anatomical स्थिति.
In अन्य positions, other actions may be performed.
A reenactment of a बैटल at फोर्ट फोस्टर, 1837 ( at Hillsborough नदी राज्य पार्क )
The Seminole Wars, भी ज्ञात as the फ्लोरिडा Wars, यहूद तीन विरोध in फ्लोरिडा between the Seminole — the सामूहिक नाम given to the amalgamation of various groups of देशी Americans and Black लोगों who settled in फ्लोरिडा in the जल्दी 18th सदी — and the संयुक्त States फौज.
The पहला seminole युद्ध was from 1814 to 1819 ( हालांकि स्त्रोत differ ), the दूसरी Seminole War from 1835 to 1842, और the Third seminole War from 1855 to 1858.
the पहला विरोध with the Seminoles arose out of तनाव relating to सामान्य एंड्रयू जैक्सन 's attack और destruction of Negro Fort in Florida in 1816.
जैक्सन also attacked the स्पेनी at Pensacola.
Ultimately, the स्पेनी Crown ceded the colony to संयुक्त States rule.
Orono is a कस्बा in penobscot County, maine, United राज्य.
it was first settled in 1774 और named in सम्मान of मुख्य जोसेफ Orono of the Penobscot Nation.
It is home to The विश्वविद्यालयों of maine.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 10,362 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
दृश्य of the pyramid
लक्सर लास Vegas is a hotel and casino on the लास Vegas Strip in Paradise, Nevada.
The 30-story hotel, owned and operated by MGM रिसॉर्ट अंतरराष्ट्रीय, has a casino साथ over 2,000 slot मशीने and 87 table games.
in the 2008 to 2009 renovation, it has a नई, अत्यधिक आधुनिकीकरण, and contemporary design और contains a total of 4,400 rooms, including 442 suites, lining the interior walls of a pyramid स्टाइल मीनार और within twin 22-story ziggurat मीनारें कि यहूद निर्मित as बाद परिवर्धन.
the hotel is नामित after the city of लक्सर ( ancient thebes ) in Egypt.
Luxor is the second largest होटल in Las वेगास ( the largest being the MGM ग्रैंड ) and the eighth largest in the world.
as of 2010, the लक्सर has a 4 कुंजी दरजा इससे the ग्रीन Key Eco-Rating Program, जिससे evaluates `` sustainable '' hotel परिचालन.
A pilot experiment, also called a pilot पढ़ाई, is a छोटी स्केल preliminary study conducted in अनुक्रम to evaluate feasibility, time, cost, adverse events, and effect आकार ( statistical variability ) in an attempt to predict an उचित नमूना size and improve upon the पढ़ाई design prior to प्रदर्शन of a full-scale research project.
Pilot studies, therefore, may not be उचित लिये मामला अध्ययन.
The लॉस एंजिल्स Fire विभाग ( LAFD ) is the एजेंसी कि provides fire protection and emergency medical services लिये the नगर of Los Angeles.
it may be unofficially referred to as the Los Angeles नगर Fire Department to फर्क it from the Los एंजिल्स काउंटी Fire विभाग.
The एकड़ is a unit of area used in the imperial और u.S. customary प्रणालियों.
an एकड़ is about 40 % of a hectare – slightly छोटी than an अमरीकी football फ़ील्ड.
the acre is no longer commonly used, हालांकि a few notable अपवाद शामिल the संयुक्त States, Australia, Burma and the संयुक्त किंगडम ( as of 2010, the acre is no longer officially प्रयुक्त in the संयुक्त किंगडम, हालांकि is स्टिल प्रयुक्त in रियल एस्टेट descriptions ).
it is still प्रयुक्त, to कुछ extent, in Canada.
The international प्रतीक of the acre is ac, and is defined as 1/640 of a square मील.
The सबसे commonly used acre today is the international एकड़.
In the संयुक्त States both the अंतरराष्ट्रीय acre और the थोड़ा different US survey acre are in उपयोग.
The most common उपयोग of the acre is to measure tracts of जमीन.
One अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़ is defined as 4046.8564224 वर्गाकार metres.
दौरान the Middle आयु, an acre was the राशि of land कि could be plowed in one day साथ a yoke of oxen.
Pawnee initially refers to a Native American लोगों and its language:
Pawnee people
Pawnee language
Pawnee is also the name of अनेक places in the United States:
pawnee, Illinois
Pawnee, Kansas
Pawnee नगर, Nebraska
Pawnee, ओक्लाहोमा
Pawnee, Texas
pawnee National घासभूमि, कोलोराडो
pawnee Township ( बहुविकल्पी )
pawnee County ( disambiguation )
Pawnee may भी refer to:
Piper pa-25 Pawnee, agricultural aircraft
Hiller VZ-1 pawnee, experimental aircraft
Pawnee, Indiana ( fictional city ) the fictional setting of the एनबीसी television कॉमेडी Parks और मनोरंजन.
broca 's और Wernicke 's Areas
Language प्रसंस्करण refers to the way human beings उपयोग words to communicate विचार और जज्बात, और how such communications are processed और समझा.
Thus it is कैसा the brain creates and understands language.
Most हाल theories consider that इस प्रक्रम is carried out entirely by और अंदर the दिमाग.
This is considered एक of the सबसे characteristic abilities of the इंसान प्रजाति - शायद the most characteristic.
however बहुत छोटी is known परिचय it and वहीँ is huge पैमाना for शोध on it.
Most of the knowledge acquired to date on the विषय has आइये from patients who have suffered कुछ type of significant head चोट, whether external ( wounds, bullets ) or internal ( स्ट्रोक्स, tumors, degenerative diseases ).
अध्ययन have shown कि सबसे of the language processing functions हैं carried आउट in the cerebral cortex.
The अनिवार्य function of the cortical language क्षेत्रों is symbolic representation.
Even though language exists in different फ़ॉर्म, सब of them are based on symbolic representation.
The bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car, designed and developed by the volkswagen Group और manufactured in Molsheim, फ़्रांस by Bugatti Automobiles s.a.s.
the सुपर Sport version of the Veyron is the तीव्रतम street-legal उत्पादन car in the संसार, साथ a शीर्ष speed of.
The असली version रै a top गति of.
It थी नामित Car of the Decade ( 2000–2009 ) by the बीबीसी टेलीविज़न programme Top Gear.
the मानक Veyron जीती शीर्ष Gears Best Car चलित All Year award in 2005.
On 6 April 2013, Bugatti set the रिकार्ड for the तीव्रतम roadster in the world साथ the veyron Grand Sport Vitesse, reaching on औसत a top गति of.
The veyron 's मुख्य पंक्तियां थी hartmut Warkuss, and the exterior थी designed by jozef kabaň of Volkswagen, with much of the अभियान्त्रिकी work being conducted under the guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber.
a number of special variants have महरूम produced.
in दिसम्बर 2010, Bugatti began offering prospective buyers the क्षमता to मनपसंद exterior and interiors colours by using the Veyron 16.4 Configurator application on the marque 's आधिकारिक website.
DVD is an optical disc भंडार format, invented and developed by फिलिप्स, Sony, Toshiba, and Panasonic in 1995.
DVDs प्रस्ताव higher storage capacity than कॉम्पैक्ट discs while having the same आयाम.
pre-recorded DVDs are mass-produced using molding मशीने that physically स्टैम्प आंकड़ा onto the DVD.
Such discs are ज्ञात as DVD- ROM, because data can तभी be पढ़ा और नहीं written nor erased.
Blank recordable dvd discs ( DVD-R and DVD+R ) can be recorded once using a DVD recorder and तब function as a DVD-ROM. rewritable dvds ( DVD-RW, dvd+rw, and dvd-ram ) can be recorded and erased अनेक टाइम्स.
DVDs हैं used in dvd-video consumer digital वीडियो format और in dvd-audio उपभोक्ता डिजिटल audio format, as खूब as for authoring AVCHD discs.
DVDs containing other प्रकार of information may be referred to as dvd data discs.
What Chilli wants is an अमरीकी वास्तविकता series on VH1 starring chilli, one-third of the Grammy पुरस्कार -winning r & B trio TLC.
the show chronicles chilli 's quest to find प्रेम with the help of Tionna T. smalls, an लेखक and संबंध coach.
the series premiered on April 11, 2010, and रै चूंकि been नवीनीकृत for a second ऋतु.
The दूसरी ऋतु premiered on Sunday, January 2, 2011.
पीटर Gene Hernandez ( born October 8, 1985 ), known by his stage नाम ब्रूनो Mars, is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter और record निर्माता.
उठाया in Honolulu, Hawaii, by a family of musicians, मंगल began making म्यूज़िक at a यंग आयु and performed in विभिन्न musical venues in his hometown throughout his childhood.
He ग्रैजुएट from high school and then moved to लॉस एंजिल्स, California, to pursue a musical करियर.
Mars produced songs for अन्य artists, joining उत्पादन टोली the smeezingtons.
मंगल था an unsuccessful कार्यावधि with motown Records, but तब हस्ताक्षरित with Atlantic in 2009.
He became recognized as a solo artist after lending उसके vocals और co-writing the hooks लिये the गीतों `` nothin ' on You `` by b.o.b, and `` Billionaire `` by travie McCoy.
he also co-wrote the hits `` सही गोलाकार `` by flo Rida featuring ke $ ha, और `` Wavin ' ध्वज `` by K'naan.
in अक्तूबर 2010, he released उसके डेब्यू album, Doo-Wops & गुंडों.
Anchored by the विश्वव्यापी number-one singles `` Just the रास्ता तुम हैं `` and `` ग्रेनेड ``, the album peaked at number तीन on the बिलबोर्ड 200.
Mars was मनोनीत लिये seven grammys at the 53rd Grammy Awards, जीतना Best पुरूष Pop गायन प्रदर्शन लिये `` बस the Way तुम हैं ''.
उसके दूसरी studio एल्बम, Unorthodox ज्यूकबॉक्स, was released on December 11, 2012.
Mars ' music is विख्यात for displaying a wide variety of styles and influences, और contains elements of many musical genres.
he रै worked with an assortment of artists from various genres.
As a चाइल्ड, he was अत्यधिक influenced by कलाकारों ऐसे as Little Richard, Elvis प्रेस्ली और Michael जैक्सन and would often impersonate these artists इससे a young age.
मंगल also incorporates reggae - and motown -inspired sounds into his work.
विश्वव्यापी, मंगल became the best-selling digital artist in 2011.
He had तीन singles in the top टेन, including first place with `` बस the रास्ता तुम हैं '', which बेची 12.5 million नक़ल.
मंगल won बेहतरीन International पुरूष Solo कलाकार at the 2012 ब्रिट Awards.
ब्रूनो Mars has sold 6 million एल्बम and 40 million singles worldwide as a सिंगर.
althought as a song-writer, निर्माता and singer उसके total single download sales surpass 100 million worldwide.
Bust of Zeus, Otricoli ( Sala Rotonda, museo pio-clementino, वेटिकन ).
Greek mythology is the body of मिथकों और शिक्षाओं that belong to the ancient यूनानियों, concerning उनके देवताओं and नायक, the प्रकृति of the world, and the origins and significance of their अपना cult और अनुष्ठान practices.
it was a part of the धर्म in प्राचीन Greece and is part of religion in modern यूनानियों and around the world, known as Hellenismos.
आधुनिक विद्वानों refer to and study the myths in an attempt to throw light on the religious और political संस्थानों of Ancient यूनानियों and its सभ्यता, and to लाभ समझना of the nature of myth-making itself.
यूनानी mythology is explicitly embodied in a large collection of narratives, and implicitly in Greek representational arts, such as vase-paintings and votive उपहार.
यूनानी मिथक attempts to explain the origins of the world, and details the lives and adventures of a wide किस्में of gods, goddesses, heroes, heroines, और mythological जीव.
These accounts initially were disseminated in an oral-poetic परंपरा ; today the Greek myths are ज्ञात primarily from यूनानी साहित्य.
The oldest ज्ञात यूनानी literary स्त्रोत, होमर 's epic कविताएं Iliad and ओडिसी, focus on events surrounding the Trojan War.
दो कविताएं by होमर 's near समकालीन Hesiod, the theogony and the Works and दिनों, contain accounts of the उत्पत्ति of the world, the succession of divine शासकों, the succession of इंसान ages, the उत्पत्ति of इंसान woes, and the उत्पत्ति of sacrificial practices.
मिथकों हैं भी preserved in the homeric Hymns, in fragments of epic poems of the Epic Cycle, in lyric poems, in the works of the tragedians of the fifth सदी BC, in कृतियाँ of विद्वानों and poets of the Hellenistic Age, and in texts from the time of the Roman साम्राज्य by writers such as प्लूटार्क and Pausanias.
पुरातत्व findings provide a principal सोर्स of detail परिचय Greek mythology, साथ देवताओं और heroes प्रदर्शित prominently in the decoration of many artifacts.
Geometric डिजाइन on pottery of the आठवीं century BC depict दृश्यों from the Trojan cycle as खूब as the adventures of Heracles.
in the succeeding archaic, Classical, और hellenistic periods, Homeric and various other mythological scenes appear, supplementing the existing साहित्यिक प्रमाण.
Greek mythology has था an extensive influence on the संस्कृति, कला, and literature of पश्चिमी सभ्यता और remains part of पश्चिमी heritage and भाषा.
Poets and artists from प्राचीन times to the present have derived प्रेरणा इससे यूनानी mythology and have discovered contemporary significance and प्रासंगिकता in the themes.
Mouth & macneal in 1971
Mouth & macneal was a pop duo इससे the Netherlands.
वे are best ज्ञात for their million selling recording of `` How Do तुम do ``.
The Boise State broncos football कार्यक्रम represents Boise राज्य University in college फ़ुटबॉल and compete in the फ़ुटबॉल Bowl Subdivision ( fbs ) of Division I as a सदस्य of the Mountain West Conference.
They are currently led by head coach क्रिस Petersen and play their home खेल at bronco Stadium.
The franc ( sign : Fr. or SFr. ; German : Franken, फ्रेंच and romansh : फ़्रैंक, Italian : फ्रेंको ; कोड : CHF ) is the currency और legal tender of Switzerland और Liechtenstein ; it is also विधिक tender in the इतालवी exclave Campione d'Italia.
Although not formally विधिक टेंडर in the German exclave Büsingen ( the sole legal currency is the euro ), it is in चौड़ी daily उपयोग वहीँ.
the स्विस नेशनल बैंको issues banknotes and the संघीय मिंट Swissmint मुद्दे coins.
The स्विस franc is the only version of the franc still जारी in यूरोपीय.
The smaller denomination, a hundredth of a franc, is a rappen ( Rp. ) in जर्मनी, centime ( c. ) in French, centesimo ( ct. ) in इतालवी, and rap ( rp. ) in Romansh.
the ISO कोड of the करेंसी प्रयुक्त by banks and वित्तीय institutions is CHF, although `` Fr. '' is used by most व्यवसायों and विज्ञापनदाता ; कुछ use SFr. ; the latinate `` ch '' stands for Confoederatio helvetica.
Given the different भाषाएं used in Switzerland, लैटिन is प्रयुक्त for language-neutral inscriptions on the सिक्के.
Sir Charles स्पेंसर `` Charlie '' Chaplin, ( 16 April 188925 दिसम्बर 1977 ) थी a अंग्रेजों comic actor and filmmaker जो रोज़ to कीर्ति in the silent era.
चैपलिन became a worldwide प्रतीक through his screen persona `` the Tramp `` and is माना one of the सबसे important figures of the film industry.
His career spanned अधिक than 75 years, from a चाइल्ड in the विक्टोरियन era to बंद to उसके death at the age of 88, and encompassed दोनो adulation and controversy.
Raised in लंदन, Chaplin 's बाल्यकाल थी पारिभाषित by poverty and hardship.
He थी sent to a workhouse twice before the आयु of nine ; उसके father was अनुपस्थित, and his mother थी committed to a mental asylum.
Chaplin began performing from a young age, touring music halls and later working as a stage actor और comedian.
At 19 he was हस्ताक्षरित to the prestigious Fred karno कम्पनी, which took उसे to America.
Chaplin was scouted by the फिल्मी उद्योग, and made his पहला appearances in 1914 with Keystone studios.
he soon विकसित the Tramp persona और formed a विशाल fan आधार.
Chaplin directed उसके films from an early stage, and जारी to hone his craft as he स्थानांतरित to the essanay, Mutual, and First नेशनल corporations.
By 1918, he थी one of the most प्रसिद्ध men in the world.
in 1919, चैपलिन co-founded the वितरण कम्पनी United Artists, giving उसे complete control over his films.
His first feature-length चित्र was The बच्चा ( 1921 ), followed by A स्त्री of Paris ( 1923 ), The Gold फटाफट ( 1925 ), और The सर्कस ( 1928 ).
he refused to मूव to ध्वनि films in the 1930s, बजाय producing नगर Lights ( 1931 ) और आधुनिक Times ( 1936 ) without dialogue.
Chaplin became increasingly political and his next film, The Great तानाशाह ( 1940 ), satirised Adolf हिटलर.
The 1940s was a दशक marked साथ controversy for Chaplin, और his popularity declined rapidly.
He थी अभियुक्त of communist sympathies, while his भागीदारी in a paternity suit और marriages to much younger महिलाओं were considered scandalous.
an FBI छानबीन was opened on Chaplin, और he थी eventually मजबूर to छोड़ the संयुक्त States और settle in Switzerland.
he abandoned the Tramp for his बाद films, which include Monsieur verdoux ( 1947 ), limelight ( 1952 ), A King in नई York ( 1957 ), और a Countess From हांग काँग ( 1967 ).
Chaplin wrote, directed, produced, edited, scored, and स्ट्रक्चर in most of उसके films.
He was a perfectionist, और his वित्तीय independence meant he प्रायः खर्च years on the development and उत्पादन of a picture.
His films are characterised by slapstick combined with pathos, और often feature the Tramp struggling विरूद्ध adversity.
Many contain सोशल और political विषयवस्तु, as खूब as autobiographical elements.
in 1972, as भाग of a renewed appreciation for his work, Chaplin received an Honorary अकादमी पुरस्कार for `` the incalculable effect he रै had in making motion pictures the art रूप of this century ''.
He continues to be held in high regard, with The Gold Rush, City लाइट्स, Modern टाइम्स, and the ग्रेट Dictator प्रायः क्रमित among the महानतम films of सब time.
Planned parenthood Federation of America ( PPFA ), commonly shortened to Planned Parenthood, is the U.S. affiliate of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय नियोजित parenthood Federation ( ippf ) and एक of its larger members.
PPFA is a non-profit organization providing reproductive health and maternal and child स्वास्थ्य सेवाएं.
The नियोजित parenthood कार्रवाई Fund, inc. ( PPAF ) is a related organization जिससे lobbies for pro-choice legislation, comprehensive sex शिक्षा, and access to सस्ती health परवाह in the संयुक्त राज्य.
नियोजित Parenthood is the largest U.S. प्रदाता of reproductive health services, including cancer स्क्रीनिंग, HIV स्क्रीनिंग and counseling, contraception, and गर्भपात.
Contraception accounts for 35 % of ppfa 's total services और abortions account for 3 % ; ppfa conducts roughly 300,000 abortions each साल, among 3 million लोगों परोसा.
The संगठन has its roots in Brooklyn, नई York, जहाँ Margaret Sanger opened the देश 's पहला birth-control clinic.
सैंगर founded the American जनम कंट्रोल League in 1921, which in 1942 became part of the Planned Parenthood संघ of America.
चूंकि तब, Planned parenthood रै grown to have over 820 क्लिनिक स्थितियाँ in the U.S., साथ a total बजट of US $ 1 अरब.
ppfa provides an सरणी of सेवाएं to over three million लोगों in the United States, और supports सेवाएं for over one million clients outside the United States.
Mens rea is लैटिन for `` guilty दिमाग ''.
In दण्ड law, it is viewed as one of the necessary तत्व of कुछ अपराधों.
the मानक common law परीक्षण of दण्ड देयता is usually expressed in the लैटिन phrase, actus गैर facit reum nisi mens बैठना rea, which अर्थात् `` the act is नहीं culpable unless the mind is guilty ''.
Thus, in jurisdictions with due process, there जरूर be an actus reus, or `` अपराधी act, '' accompanied by some level of पुरुषों rea to constitute the crime साथ जिससे the प्रतिवादी is charged ( देखिए the तकनीकी requirement of concurrence ).
as a general नियम, criminal liability करता नहीं attach to a person जो acted with the absence of mental fault.
the एक्सेप्शन is strict देयता अपराधों.
In civil law, it is usually not necessary to prove a subjective mental तत्व to establish liability for उल्लंघन of अनुबंध or tort, लिये उदाहरण.
However, if a अपकृत्य is intentionally committed or a अनुबंध is intentionally breached, such intent may बढ़ाएँ the scope of liability as खूब as the माप of damages देय to the plaintiff.
इसलिए, mens rea refers to the दिमागी element of the अपराध that accompanies the actus reus.
in some jurisdictions, the शर्तें mens rea और actus reus have been replaced by alternative शब्दावली.
In ऑस्ट्रेलिया, for उदाहरण, the तत्व of the federal offences हैं अभी designated as `` दोष तत्व '' or `` दिमागी elements '' ( पुरुषों rea ) और `` physical elements '' or `` बाह्य तत्व '' ( actus reus ).
This terminology थी adopted to replace the obscurity of the Latin शर्तें with सरल and accurate phrasing.
Ulysses S. ग्रान्ट ( born Hiram ulysses Grant ; April 27, 1822 – July 23, 1885 ) was the 18th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1869–1877 ) following his highly successful भूमिका as a युद्ध general in the दूसरी हाफ of the सिविल War.
Under ग्रान्ट, the संघ Army defeated the confederate military ; having effectively ended the युद्ध and secession with the surrender of Robert E. Lee 's army at Appomattox.
as president he led the कट्टरपंथी Republicans in their effort to eliminate सब vestiges of confederate राष्ट्रवाद and slavery.
परेशान over uncontrolled हिंसा in the दक्षिण और having desired to protect अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी नागरिकता, President ग्रान्ट effectively destroyed the ku klux क्लान in 1871.
ग्रान्ट थी the पहला President to establish सिविल सेवा reform having created a two-year federally funded Civil Service आयोग in 1871.
in शर्तें of foreign policy, Grant revealed an `` अनपेक्षित capacity लिये विवेचना and consultation '' that promoted the नेशनल interest.
His reputation was marred by his दोहराया defense of corrupt appointees, और by America 's पहला औद्योगिक age economic depression ( पुकारा the `` Panic of 1873 `` ) that dominated his second पद.
Although his Republican Party split in 1872 साथ reformers denouncing him, Grant थी easily reelected.
By 1875 the रूढ़िवादी white दक्षिणी opposition regained control of प्रत्येक state in the South and as he left the White House in March 1877 his policies यहूद होने undone.
A career soldier, he ग्रैजुएट from the United States Military अकादमी at West Point and परोसा in the Mexican–American युद्ध.
When the सिविल युद्ध began in 1861, ग्रान्ट प्रशिक्षित Union volunteer regiments in इलिनोइस.
In 1862, as a general he लड़ा a श्रेणी of लड़ाइयों and was प्रचारित to major general after forcing the आत्मसमर्पण of a विशाल confederate army and gaining control of Kentucky and most of टेनेसी.
he तब led संघ शक्तियां to victory after initial setbacks in the Battle of Shiloh, earning a प्रतिष्ठा as an aggressive commander.
in July 1863, after a long, complex campaign, Grant defeated पाँच uncoordinated Confederate सेना ( capturing one of them ) और seized Vicksburg.
This famous विजय gave the संघ पूरा control of the मिसिसिपी River, split off the पश्चिमी Confederacy, and खोली the way लिये more Union triumphs.
After another win at the बैटल of Chattanooga in लेट 1863, President Abraham Lincoln made उसे lieutenant general and commander of all of the Union Armies.
as commanding सामान्य of the army, Grant confronted रॉबर्ट E. Lee in a series of बहुत खूनी battles in 1864 ज्ञात as the Overland अभियान that ended साथ the bottling up of ली at Petersburg, बाहर the Confederate capital of Richmond.
During the घेरा, Grant समन्वित a series of devastating अभियान शुभारम्भ by विलियम tecumseh शरमन, Philip Sheridan, और George थामस.
आखिरकार breaking through ली 's trenches, the Union Army captured Richmond in अप्रैल 1865.
Lee surrendered उसके depleted forces to Grant at appomattox as the Confederacy collapsed.
हालांकि pro-Confederate historians attacked Grant as a ruthless कसाई who जीती by brute फ़ोर्स, most historians have hailed his सैन्य genius.
Grant 's दो consecutive शर्तें as President stabilized the nation बाद the American Civil युद्ध and during the turbulent पुनर्निर्माण period that followed.
As president, he enforced Reconstruction by enforcing civil अधिकारों laws and fighting Ku Klux Klan हिंसा.
Grant जीती ड्योढ़ी of the पंद्रहवीं Amendment ; giving constitutional protection for African-American मतदान अधिकारों.
he used the army to build the Republican Party in the दक्षिण, आधारित on ब्लैक मतदाता, Northern newcomers ( `` carpetbaggers `` ) and native white supporters ( `` Scalawags. '' )
As a परिणाम, African अमेरिकी were represented in the u.S. Congress लिये the first समय in अमरीकी history in 1870.
Reformers praised ग्रान्ट 's Indian peace policy by having टूटा the deadlock on Indian appropriations in कॉंग्रेस, the creation of the Board of Indian Commissioners to make reform recommendations, और his enlistment of Quaker protestants who नियंत्रित mid western Indian agencies, कि effectively curbed Congressional patronage.
ग्रान्ट remained determined in keeping Indians from being exterminated इससे white settler अतिक्रमण or by the U.S. military.
Grant 's प्रतिष्ठा as president by 1875 was at an all-time high for उसके पिछला वीटो of the महंगाई Bill, the passage of the Resumption of Specie Act, and सचिव bristow 's successful छापे that shut down the Whiskey Ring.
Grant 's foreign नीति, led by सचिव of राज्य Hamilton मछली, implemented अंतरराष्ट्रीय Arbitration, settled the Alabama दावा साथ ब्रिटेन and avoided war साथ Spain over the Virginius Affair.
a jukebox is a partially स्वचालित music-playing यंत्र, usually a coin-operated machine, कि will play a patron 's चयन from self-contained media.
The classic ज्यूकबॉक्स has buttons with अक्षर और numbers on them कि, जब entered in combination, are प्रयुक्त to play a विशिष्ट selection.
a drug परीक्षण is a तकनीकी विश्लेषण of a biological specimen – for उदाहरण urine, hair, blood, sweat, or मौखिक fluid / saliva – to determine the presence or absence of specified जनक drugs or their metabolites.
प्रमुख uses of drug परीक्षण हैं to detect the presence of प्रदर्शन enhancing steroids in sport or for दवाएँ prohibited by कानून, such as cannabis, cocaine and heroin.
A `` 10-panel urine स्क्रीन '' consists of the following:
Amphetamines ( including methamphetamine )
Barbiturates
Benzodiazepines
Cannabinoids ( thc )
Cocaine
Methadone
Methaqualone
Opiates ( codeine, मॉरफीन, Heroin, Oxycodone, hydrocodone, etc. )
phencyclidine ( PCP )
propoxyphene
शनि V प्रक्षेपास्त्र, प्रयुक्त for the American manned lunar लैंडिंग मिशन
Space exploration is the डिस्कवरी और exploration of outer स्पेस by अर्थात् of space प्रौद्योगिकी.
शारीरिक exploration of स्पेस is conducted दोनो by human spaceflights और by robotic spacecraft.
While the observation of objects in space, ज्ञात as खगोलशास्त्र, predates विश्वसनीय recorded history, it थी the विकास of विशाल और relatively efficient rockets during the early 20th century that allowed physical space exploration to become a reality.
Common rationales लिये exploring स्पेस include advancing वैज्ञानिक research, uniting अलग nations, ensuring the future अस्तित्व of humanity and developing military and रणनीतिक advantages विरूद्ध other countries.
Various आलोचनाओं of space exploration हैं sometimes made.
स्पेस exploration has प्रायः been प्रयुक्त as a प्रॉक्सी competition for geopolitical rivalries such as the ठंडा War.
The early era of स्पेस exploration was चलित by a `` स्पेस रेस `` between the Soviet Union and the संयुक्त States, the launch of the first man-made object to कक्षा the Earth, the USSR 's sputnik 1, on 4 अक्तूबर 1957, and the first Moon लैंडिंग by the अमरीकी अपोलो 11 craft on 20 जुलाई 1969 are प्रायः taken as the boundaries लिये this initial काल.
The Soviet space program हासिल many of the first माइलस्टोन, सहित the first जीना being in कक्षा in 1957, the first human spaceflight ( यूरी गगारिन aboard वोस्तोक 1 ) in 1961, the first spacewalk ( by Aleksei Leonov ) on 18 March 1965, the पहला स्वचालित landing on another celestial body in 1966, and the launch of the first space station ( Salyut 1 ) in 1971.
After the पहला 20 years of exploration, फ़ोकस shifted इससे one-off flights to बेदर्दी हार्डवेयर, ऐसे as the स्पेस Shuttle कार्यक्रम, और from प्रतियोगिता to cooperation as with the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Space Station ( iss ).
With the substantial completion of the ISS following STS-133 in March 2011, plans for स्पेस खोजी by the यूएसए remain in फ्लक्स.
Constellation, a बुश Administration कार्यक्रम for a return to the Moon by 2020 was judged inadequately वित्तपोषित और unrealistic by an विशेषज्ञ review फलक reporting in 2009.
the Obama Administration proposed a revision of Constellation in 2010 to फ़ोकस on the development of the capability for crewed missions परे low earth orbit ( LEO ), envisioning extending the आपरेशन of the ISS beyond 2020, transferring the development of लॉन्च vehicles लिये human crews from NASA to the private सेक्टर, and developing technology to enable मिशन to beyond LEO, such as earth/moon L1, the Moon, earth/sun l2, near-earth asteroids, और Phobos or मंगल कक्षा.
As of March 2011, the US Senate and हाउस of Representatives are स्टिल working towards a compromise नासा funding bill, which will संभवतः terminate Constellation and निधि development of a heavy lift launch vehicle ( HLLV ).
in the 2000s, the People 's गणतंत्र of China initiated a कामयाब manned spaceflight program, while the European Union, Japan, and India have also planned भविष्य मानवयुक्त स्पेस missions.
चीन, Russia, Japan, and India have advocated manned missions to the Moon during the 21st century, while the यूरोपीय Union रै advocated manned मिशन to दोनो the Moon और Mars during the 21st century.
From the 1990s onwards, निजी रूचि began promoting space पर्यटन और तब private space exploration of the Moon ( देखिए google चंद्र x Prize ).
जॉन Calvin Coolidge, jr. ( July 4, 1872january 5, 1933 ) was the 30th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States ( 1923–1929 ).
A Republican lawyer इससे वर्मांट, कूलिज worked his way up the ladder of Massachusetts राज्य राजनीती, eventually बनने राज्यपाल of कि राज्य.
His conduct दौरान the Boston Police Strike of 1919 thrust him into the नेशनल spotlight and gave him a reputation as a man of decisive action.
जल्द बाद, he was निर्वाचित as the 29th Vice President in 1920 और succeeded to the प्रेसिडेंसी upon the अचानक मौत of वारेन G. हार्डिंग in 1923.
निर्वाचित in उसके own right in 1924, he gained a प्रतिष्ठा as a small-government conservative, और भी as a man जो said very छोटी.
कूलिज restored पब्लिक confidence in the श्वेत House after the scandals of his predecessor 's administration, और left office with considerable लोकप्रियता.
As a कूलिज biographer put it, `` He समाविष्ट the स्पिरिट and hopes of the middle क्लास, could interpret उनके longings और एक्स्प्रेस उनके opinions.
That he किया represent the प्रतिभाशाली of the average is the most convincing प्रमाण of उसके strength. ''
Some बाद criticized कूलिज as part of a general criticism of laissez-faire government.
उसके reputation underwent a पुनर्जागरण during the रोनाल्ड reagan Administration, but the परम मूल्यांकन of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी is स्टिल divided between those जो approve of उसके reduction of the आकार of government programs and those who believe the federal government should be अधिक involved in regulating और controlling the अर्थव्यवस्था.
एस्प्रेसो is a concentrated beverage brewed by forcing a small राशि of nearly boiling water अंतर्गत pressure through finely ground कॉफी beans.
Espresso often has a thicker consistency than coffee brewed by other methods, a उच्चतर विशेषज्ञता of suspended and dissolved solids, and crema ( meaning cream, but होने a reference to the foam with a मलाईदार texture that फ़ॉर्म as a result of the दबाव ).
as a result of the pressurized brewing प्रक्रम the flavors and रसायन in a ठेठ cup of espresso हैं very concentrated.
Espresso is the आधार लिये other drinks, such as a latte, कापुचीनो, macchiato, mocha, or americano.
एस्प्रेसो has more caffeine प्रति ईकाई volume than most beverages, but the usual serving size is smaller—a typical 60 mL ( 2 US fluid ounce ) of espresso रै 80 to 150 mg of caffeine, छोटी कम than the 95 to 200 mg of a मानक 240 mL ( 8 US fluid ounces ) कप of drip-brewed कॉफी.
ब्रायन कैथ केली ( born October 25, 1961 ) is an American फ़ुटबॉल कोच और former खिलाड़ी.
he is currently the head football coach लिये the Notre dame लड़ Irish, a position he रै held चूंकि दिसम्बर 2009.
Kelly was previously सिर कोच at Grand घाटी राज्य University ( 1991–2003 ), Central Michigan विश्वविद्यालयों ( 2004–2006 ), and University of सिनसिनाटी ( 2006–2009 ).
a अनुबंध is an अनुबंध having a lawful ऑब्जेक्ट डाला into voluntarily by दो or more parties, each of जिसको intends to बनाएँ one or more legal obligations between उन्हें.
the तत्व of a अनुबंध हैं `` प्रस्ताव '' and `` acceptance '' by `` competent व्यक्तियों '' having legal capacity who exchange `` विचार '' to create `` mutuality of दायित्व. ''
Proof of कुछ or all of these elements may be done in writing, हालांकि contracts may be made entirely orally or by conduct.
The remedy for breach of contract can be `` क्षतिपूर्ति '' in the रूप of compensation of money or specific प्रदर्शन enforced through an आदेश.
दोनो of these remedies award the पार्टी at घाटा the `` benefit of the सौदेबाजी '' or अपेक्षा damages, which are वृहद than mere reliance क्षतिपूर्ति, as in promissory estoppel.
The parties may be natural persons or juristic व्यक्तियों.
A अनुबंध is a legally enforceable वादा or undertaking that कुछ होगा or होगा not occur.
the शब्द promise can be used as a legal synonym लिये अनुबंध, although परवाह is जरूरी as a वादा may not have the full खड़ा of a अनुबंध, as when it is an agreement without विचार.
Contract law varies greatly इससे एक jurisdiction to another, सहित differences in आम law compared to civil law, the impact of received law, particularly from England in आम law countries, और of विधि संहिताबद्ध in regional legislation.
regarding Australian Contract Law for example, वहीँ are 40 प्रासंगिक acts जिससे प्रभाव on the interpretation of contract at the Commonwealth ( संघीय / नेशनल ) स्तर, and an additional 26 acts at the स्तर of the राज्य of nsw.
In जोड there हैं 6 international instruments or conventions which are applicable for अंतरराष्ट्रीय dealings, ऐसे as the United राष्ट्र Convention on अनुबंध लिये the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Sale of Goods.
Sidney Patrick Crosby, ons ( born अगस्त 7, 1987 ) is a Canadian professional ice हॉकी player who is कप्तान of the पिट्सबर्ग Penguins of the National Hockey League ( NHL ).
Crosby was drafted पहला overall by the Penguins आउट of the Quebec Major Junior हॉकी League ( QMJHL ).
During his two-year major जूनियर career with the Rimouski Océanic, he earned back-to-back chl खिलाड़ी of the साल awards और led his क्लबों to the 2005 Memorial कप final.
Nicknamed `` The अगला एक ``, he was one of the most highly regarded draft picks in hockey इतिहास, अग्रणी अनेक to refer to the 2005 ड्राफ्ट Lottery as the `` sidney crosby Sweepstakes ''.
In his पहला NHL season, Crosby finished छठे in league scoring साथ 102 points ( 39 लक्ष्य, 63 assists ) और was a runner-up for the calder Memorial Trophy ( won by Alexander Ovechkin ).
By his second season, he led the NHL with 120 points ( 36 goals, 84 assists ) to capture the Art Ross ट्रॉफी, becoming the youngest player और the only teenager to win a स्कोरिंग शीर्षक in कोई major North American खेल लीग.
कि वही season, Crosby also जीती the Hart मेमोरियल Trophy as the Professional हॉकी Writers Association 's choice लिये सबसे valuable खिलाड़ी and the लेस्टर B. पियर्सन पुरस्कार as the NHL खिलाड़ी Association 's choice for सबसे outstanding खिलाड़ी, becoming the seventh player in एनएचएल history to earn सब three पुरस्कार in one year.
crosby started the 2007–08 season with the team 's captaincy and subsequently led उन्हें to the 2008 स्टेनली Cup Finals, where वे were defeated by the Detroit Red विंग्स in छह खेल.
The Penguins returned to the फाइनल against Detroit the following year and won in seven games ; Crosby became the youngest कप्तान in NHL इतिहास to जीत the Stanley Cup.
In the 2009–10 ऋतु, Crosby scored a career-high 51 goals, tying him with Steven stamkos for the Rocket Richard ट्रॉफी as the league-leader ; with 58 assists, he totaled 109 points, second in the NHL.
During the off-season, crosby received the Mark मेसियर नेतृत्व Award.
in 2010–11, Crosby sustained a concussion as a परिणाम of hits to the सिर in back-to-back games.
the चोट left उसे sidelined for टेन और a हाफ months.
However, बाद playing आठ games in the 2011–12 season, crosby 's concussion-like लक्षण returned in December 2011, and he किया नहीं वापसी until mid-March 2012.
internationally, Crosby रै represented कनाडा in numerous tournaments for the country 's junior and मेन 's teams.
बाद competing in the 2003 u-18 Junior संसार Cup, he represented Canada in back-to-back iihf World U20 Championships, winning silver in 2004 और gold in 2005.
at the 2006 iihf World Championship, he led the tournament in scoring, जबकि भी earning शीर्ष Forward और all-star टोली honours.
Four years later, crosby was named to Team Canada लिये the 2010 शीत Olympics in Vancouver.
Playing the संयुक्त States in the gold medal खेल, he scored the game-winning goal in ओवरटाइम.
A संयुक्त राज्य cent, भी known as a पैनी.
`` my दो cents '' ( 2¢ ) and इसके longer version `` put my दो cents in '' is an संयुक्त राज्य ( US ) idiomatic expression, taken from the असली अंग्रेज़ी idiom expression : to put in `` my two कौड़ी लायक '' or `` my tuppence worth. ''
It is प्रयुक्त to preface the tentative stating of one’s opinion.
By विरोधात्मक the opinion to follow – suggesting its value is तभी two सेंट, a very small amount – the उपयोक्ता of the phrase hopes to lessen the प्रभाव of a possibly statement, प्रर्दशित politeness and humility.
However, it is also sometimes प्रयुक्त with irony when expressing a strongly felt राय.
the phrase is also used out of आदत to preface uncontentious opinions.
For example:
the चाइनीज Civil War थी a civil युद्ध in चीन fought between forces वफ़ादार to the government of the गणतंत्र of China led by the Kuomintang ( KMT ) and forces of the Communist Party of चीन ( CPC ).
The war began in April 1927, amidst the Northern Expedition, और essentially ended when प्रमुख क्रियाशील battles ceased in 1950.
The conflict eventually resulted in two de facto states, the Republic of चीन ( आरओसी ) in ताईवान and the People 's Republic of चीन ( PRC ) in मेनलैंड China, दोनो claiming to be the legitimate government of China.
the war represented an ideological split ( Left vs. Right ) between the कम्युनिस्ट CPC, और the kmt 's ब्रांड of Nationalism.
the सिविल war continued intermittently जबतक लेट 1937, when the two parties formed a दूसरी United Front to काउंटर a जापानी invasion.
China 's full-scale civil war resumed in 1946, a year after the समाप्त of hostilities with Japan.
After four more सालो, 1950 saw the cessation of major military hostilities—with the newly संस्थापित People 's गणतंत्र of चीन controlling mainland चीन ( सहित Hainan ), और the Republic of China 's क्षेत्राधिकार होने restricted to ताईवान, penghu, Quemoy, Matsu and अनेक outlying islands.
The kuomintang defeat is attributed to several कारकों : Corruption - च्यांग wrote in उसके diary on जून 1948 कि the kmt था failed, नहीं because of बाह्य दुश्मनों लकिन क्युकी of दुर्गन्ध from भीतर.
दमदार आरंभिक support इससे the U.S. diminished, and then, stopped.
( Partly because of KMT भ्रष्टाचार और anti-democratic regime, and partly because of the अनिश्चित U.S. विदेशी policy towards साम्यवादी between 1945 and 1950 ) ; Communist land reform policy promised poor peasants farmland इससे उनके landlords.
इस ensured pla popular support.
After the surrender of Japan at the end of World युद्ध II, Soviet शक्तियां turned over उनके captured Japanese weapons to the cpc और अनुमत the CPC to take कंट्रोल of territory in मंचूरिया.
to इस day, no armistice or peace सन्धि has ever been signed, और it is debated as to the whether the सिविल युद्ध has legally ended.
cross-strait relations have been hindered by सैन्य खतरे and राजनैतिक and economic pressure, particularly over Taiwan 's political status, with दोनो governments officially adhering to a `` One-China नीति. ''
the पीआरसी still actively दावा ताईवान as part of its territory और continues to threaten the ROC साथ a सैन्य invasion if the ROC officially declares स्वतंत्रता by बदलना its नाम to और gaining international recognition as the Republic of Taiwan.
The आरओसी mutually claims mainland China, and वे both continue the fight over राजनयिक मान्यता.
आज, the war as such occurs on the political and आर्थिक fronts in the form of cross-strait relations ; however, the two separate de facto states have बंद economic ties.
The One सौ Twelfth संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस was the meeting of the विधान branch of the संयुक्त States federal सरकारी, from January 3, 2011 until जनवरी 3, 2013.
it convened in Washington, D.C. on जनवरी 3, 2011, और ended on जनवरी 3, 2013, 17 दिनों पहले the end of the अध्यक्षीय term to which बराक Obama was elected in 2008.
सीनेटरों elected to नियमित terms in 2006 समाप्त those terms in this कॉंग्रेस.
This Congress included the last हाउस of प्रतिनिधि निर्वाचित इससे congressional districts that were apportioned based on the 2000 census.
In the 2010 midterm चुनावों, the Republican पार्टी won the बहुमत in the House of Representatives.
While the डेमोक्रेट रखा their Senate majority, it थी घटाया इससे the previous कॉंग्रेस.
इस was the पहला कॉंग्रेस in जिससे the House and Senate यहूद controlled by different parties चूंकि the 107th कॉंग्रेस ( 2001–2003 ), और the first कॉंग्रेस to शुरू that way since the 99th Congress ( 1985–1987 ).
In इस Congress, the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि था the largest number of Republican members, 242, since the 80th Congress ( 1947–1949 ).
It was also the पहला Congress चूंकि 1947 in जिससे no member of the कैनेडी परिवार परोसा, as खूब as the most politically polarized Congress since पुनर्निर्माण, साथ record low approval ratings.
Wealth in the United States is commonly measured in terms of net लायक, which is the योग of सब assets, including home equity, ऋण सब देनदारी.
The total जाल लायक of us households and nonprofit organizations 1945–2009, unadjusted for महंगाई or population बदलें.
लिये example, a household in possession of an $ 800,000 house, $ 5,000 in mutual निधि, $ 30,000 in गाड़ियाँ, $ 20,000 worth of भण्डार in their own कम्पनी, and a $ 45,000 IRA would have एसेट totaling $ 900,000.
assuming कि this household would have a $ 250,000 mortgage, $ 40,000 in car loans, and $ 10,000 in क्रेडिट card कर्ज़, its debts होता total $ 300,000.
Subtracting the debts from the worth of इस household 's assets ( 900,000 - $ 300,000 = $ 600,000 ), इस household would have a net worth of $ 600,000.
जाल worth can vary with fluctuations in value of the underlying एसेट.
The माल —more specifically, the median net worth—of households in the United राज्य is varied with relation to रेस, education, geographic location और gender.
as one would expect, households साथ greater income feature the highest जाल worths, though high income can नहीं be लिया as an always accurate indicator of जाल लायक.
Overall the number of wealthier households is on the वृद्धि, साथ baby boomers hitting the highs of their careers.
in addition, माल is unevenly distributed, साथ the wealthiest 25 % of US households owning 87 % of the wealth in the United राज्य, which was $ 54.2 खरब in 2009.
सहित human capital ऐसे as कौशल, the United Nations estimated the total wealth of the United States in 2008 to be $ 118 trillion.
This article deals साथ चयनात्मक Dorsal Rhizotomy ( SDR ) बल्कि than the rhizotomy procedures for pain राहत ; for those प्रक्रियाओं, which have begun to लो the नाम `` rhizotomy '' in certain उदाहरण, see facet rhizotomy and समान.
a rhizotomy ( ) is a term chiefly referring to a neurosurgical procedure कि selectively destroys problematic nerve roots in the spinal cord, सबसे प्रायः to relieve the symptoms of neuromuscular शर्तें such as spastic diplegia and other फ़ॉर्म of spastic cerebral palsy.
The selective पृष्ठीय rhizotomy ( sdr ) लिये spastic cerebral palsy has महरूम the प्रमुख use of rhizotomy लिये neurosurgeons specialising in spastic cp since the 1980s ; in this surgery, the spasticity-causing nerves are पृथक and then targeted and नष्ट.
The sensory nerve roots, जहाँ spasticity is स्तिथ, are पहला separated from the motor ones, and the nerve fibres to be cut हैं then पहचाना via electromyographic stimulation.
the ones producing spasticity are तब selectively lesioned with tiny विद्युत pulses.
in spasticity, rhizotomy precisely targets and नष्ट the क्षतिग्रस्त nerves कि don’t receive gamma amino butyric एसिड, which is the कोर problem for people साथ spastic दिमागी palsy.
These over-firing, non-GABA-absorbing nerves generate unusual विद्युत activity during the EMG परीक्षण phase in SDR and are यूँ considered to be the सोर्स of the patient 's hypertonia ; they हैं eliminated with the विद्युत pulses एकबार पहचाना, while the बाकी nerves and तंत्रिका routes carrying the correct messages remain fully intact and untouched.
This means कि the spasticity is permanently dissolved, और that this is done without affecting nervous प्रणाली संवेदनशीलता or फलन in other areas, because the only nerves नष्ट are the over-firing ones responsible लिये the मांसपेशी tightness.
the terms rhizotomy और neurotomy हैं भी increasingly बनने interchangeable in the treatment of chronic वापस पीड़ा from degenerative disc बीमारी.
This is a कार्यविधि पुकारा a facet rhizotomy and is not a surgical procedure but is instead done on an outpatient basis using a simple probe to apply radiofrequency लहरें to the impinged pain-causing nerve रूट lying between the facet संयुक्त and the vertebral body.
ऐसे radio frequency nerve lesioning results in five to eight or अधिक महीने of pain relief पहले the तंत्रिका regenerates और another round of the कार्यविधि needs to be performed.
A facet rhizotomy is बस एक of many अलग फ़ॉर्म of radiofrequency ablation, and its use of the `` rhizotomy '' name should not be उलझन with the sdr कार्यविधि.
migrant workers in कैलिफ़ोर्निया, 1935
the term migrant worker has different आधिकारिक meanings और connotations in different parts of the world.
the संयुक्त Nations ' definition is broad, सहित कोई people working outside of their home देश.
The term can भी be used to describe someone who migrates within a country, possibly उनके own, in order to pursue work such as मौसमी work.
Photograph of Lil Wayne with teardrop tattoos नीचे उसके eyes.
The teardrop tattoo or tear tattoo is a सांकेतिक tattoo that is placed underneath the eye.
it रै no fixed meaning लकिन लगभग all meanings ( देखिए नीचे ) have some connection to prison.
u.S. रूट 75 is a north–south U.S. राजमार्ग.
The highway 's उत्तरी टर्मिनस is in kittson County, मिनेसोटा, at the Canadian किनारा, जहाँ it एकबार जारी as मनिटोबा Highway 75 on the other पक्ष of the now-closed border crossing.
Its southern टर्मिनस is at अंतरराज्यीय 30 और Interstate 45 in डलास, टेक्सास, जहाँ it is ज्ञात as North Central Expressway.
u.S. 75 was a border-to-border रूट, from कनाडा to the गल्फ of मैक्सिको at Galveston, Texas.
however, the entire segment दक्षिण of Dallas, Texas रै been decommissioned in favor of Interstate 45, a cutoff section of town-to-town surface सड़क having become State राजमार्ग 75.
निम्नतर Ninth Ward is a पड़ोस of the नगर of New ऑरलियन्स.
As the नाम implies, it is part of the नवीं Ward of New ऑरलियन्स.
the निम्नतर नवीं Ward is often thought of as the entire area भीतर New ऑरलियन्स downriver of the Industrial Canal ; however, the City नियोजन Commission divides this क्षेत्रफल into the Lower Ninth वार्ड ( 2 ) and पावन Cross ( 3 ) neighborhoods.
The पद `` निम्नतर '' refers to its location farther towards the mouth of the मिसिसिपी River, `` down '' or `` below '' the rest of the city in लोकल geographic terminology.
But the 9th वार्ड, like सब Wards in New Orleans, is a voting ज़िला.
The 9th Ward was added as a मतदान district in 1852.
the `` lower '' 9th वार्ड is रचित of वार्ड 9 Districts 1, 2, 4, and 7 which make up the पावन Cross Area and वार्ड 9 जिले 3, 5, 6, and 8.
Higher voting district संख्याएँ in the 9th Ward ( 8-27 ) are on the upriver side of the औद्योगिक कनाल.
The area came to national attention for its devastation in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in 2005.
Hubble views of कोपरनिकस crater ( इनसेट ), जिससे is परिचय 58 मील ( 93 km ) wide
Red and orange tinted Moon, as seen from Earth दौरान a lunar eclipse, where the धरती comes between the चंद्रमा and सूर्य
the Moon is the only प्राकृतिक satellite of the धरती, और the fifth largest उपग्रह in the Solar प्रणाली.
It is the largest प्राकृतिक satellite of a planet in the Solar System relative to the आकार of इसके प्राथमिक, having 27 % the व्यास और 60 % the घनत्व of Earth, resulting in its mass.
the चंद्रमा is the दूसरी densest satellite after Io, a satellite of बृहस्पति.
the चंद्रमा is in synchronous रोटेशन with Earth, सदा showing the वही फेस साथ its निकट पक्ष marked by dark volcanic maria कि भरण between the bright ancient crustal highlands and the prominent impact craters.
It is the brightest ऑब्जेक्ट in the sky after the सूर्य, हालांकि its surface is actually very dark, with a reflectance similar to कि of coal.
इसके prominence in the sky और इसके नियमित cycle of phases have, since प्राचीन टाइम्स, made the Moon an महत्वपूर्ण सांस्कृतिक influence on language, calendars, आर्ट and mythology.
The Moon 's gravitational influence produces the ocean tides और the मिनट lengthening of the day.
the चंद्रमा 's current orbital अलहदा, परिचय thirty टाइम्स the diameter of the Earth, कल्याणकारी it to appear लगभग the same आकार in the sky as the Sun, allowing it to cover the Sun nearly precisely in कुल सौर eclipses.
This मिलान of apparent visual आकार is a coincidence.
The Moon 's linear अलहदा from the Earth is फिलहाल increasing at a rate of 3.82±0.07cm प्रति year, but इस रेट is नहीं constant.
The Moon is विचार to have formed nearly 4.5 billion years ago, not long after the Earth.
हालांकि वहीँ have been several hypotheses लिये इसके origin in the past, the current सबसे widely accepted स्पष्टीकरण is that the चंद्रमा formed from the debris बाएँ over बाद a दानव impact between धरती और a Mars -आकारd body.
The चंद्रमा is the तभी celestial body other than Earth on जिससे humans have नियत पैर.
the Soviet संघ 's Luna कार्यक्रम was the first to पहुँचें the Moon साथ unmanned spacecraft in 1959 ; the United राज्य ' नासा अपोलो program achieved the तभी मानवयुक्त मिशन to date, शुरूआत with the first मानवयुक्त चंद्र orbiting mission by अपोलो 8 in 1968, and छह manned चंद्र landings between 1969 और 1972, with the first being Apollo 11.
These मिशन लौटे over 380 kg of lunar rocks, which have been used to develop a geological समझना of the Moon 's origins, the formation of इसके internal ढांचा, and its subsequent history.
After the Apollo 17 mission in 1972, the Moon रै been visited तभी by unmanned spacecraft, notably by the final Soviet Lunokhod rover.
Since 2004, Japan, चीन, इण्डिया, the United States, और the European Space Agency have प्रत्येक sent lunar orbiters.
ये spacecraft have contributed to confirming the discovery of चंद्र water बर्फ in permanently shadowed craters at the डंडे और bound into the चंद्र regolith.
Future manned मिशन to the Moon have been planned, including सरकारी as well as privately funded प्रयत्न.
The Moon remains, under the बाहरी Space Treaty, फ़्री to सब राष्ट्र to explore लिये peaceful उद्देश्य.
Ronald Wilson reagan ( ; फ़रवरी 6, 1911 – June 5, 2004 ) was the 40th President of the संयुक्त States ( 1981–1989 ).
Prior to कि, he थी the 33rd राज्यपाल of कैलिफ़ोर्निया ( 1967–1975 ), and a रेडियो, फिल्मी and television actor.
born in tampico, Illinois, and raised in डिक्सन, Reagan थी educated at Eureka कॉलेज, कमाई a स्नातक of कला उपाधि in economics और sociology.
बाद graduating, Reagan moved पहला to आयोवा to work as a radio broadcaster और then, in 1937, to लॉस एंजिल्स where he began a career as an कर्ता, first in films and later टेलीविज़न.
Some of his most notable films include Knute Rockne, All American ( 1940 ), Kings Row ( 1942 ), and bedtime लिये Bonzo ( 1951 ).
Reagan served as अध्यक्ष of the Screen अभिनेताओं Guild and later as a spokesman for General इलेक्ट्रिक ( ge ) ; his start in राजनीती occurred during his work for ge.
Originally a member of the लोकतांत्रिक Party, his स्थितियाँ began shifting rightward in the 1950s, and he switched to the रिपब्लिकन Party in 1962.
After delivering a rousing speech in support of Barry goldwater 's presidential उम्मीदवारी in 1964, he थी persuaded to तलाश the कैलिफ़ोर्निया governorship, जीतना दो years बाद और again in 1970.
he was पराजित in his run for the रिपब्लिकन presidential nomination in 1968 and in 1976, but won both the nomination and सामान्य election in 1980, defeating incumbent Jimmy कार्टर.
as अध्यक्ष, Reagan implemented sweeping नई political और economic पहलों.
His supply-side economic policies, उतावले `` reaganomics ``, advocated reducing tax rates to spur आर्थिक growth, controlling the धन supply to reduce inflation, deregulation of the economy, and reducing सरकारी spending.
In his first पद he survived an assassination attempt, took a hard line against मजदूर unions, घोषित a new War on Drugs, और ordered an invasion of Grenada.
He was re-elected in a भूस्खलन in 1984, proclaiming that it was `` Morning in अमेरिका ``.
उसके second पद थी primarily marked by foreign matters, ऐसे as the ending of the Cold War, the 1986 bombing of लीबिया, and the revelation of the Iran-Contra affair.
सरेआम describing the Soviet Union as an `` evil empire ``, he समर्थित anti-communist movements worldwide और खर्च his first term forgoing the strategy of détente by ordering a विशाल सैन्य buildup in an बाहें race with the USSR.
Reagan negotiated with Soviet सामान्य Secretary मिखाइल गोर्बाचेव, culminating in the inf सन्धि और the decrease of both countries ' nuclear arsenals.
Reagan बाएँ दफ्तर in 1989.
In 1994, the former president disclosed that he had been diagnosed with Alzheimer 's बीमारी earlier in the year ; he died टेन years बाद at the age of 93.
A रूढ़िवादी icon, he ranks highly in public opinion polls of U.S. Presidents and is credited for generating an ideological पुनर्जागरण on the American राजनैतिक right.
Complete set of scrolls, constituting the entire Tanakh.
The tanakh (, or ; भी Tenakh, tenak, tanach ) is a नाम used in Judaism for the canon of the Hebrew Bible.
the tanakh is भी ज्ञात as the masoretic टेक्स्ट or the Miqra.
the नाम is an एक्रोनिम formed from the initial यहूदी अक्षर of the Masoretic Text 's three traditional subdivisions : the Torah ( `` Teaching '', also known as the Five Books of Moses ), nevi'im ( `` Prophets '' ) and Ketuvim ( `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh.
the नाम `` miqra '' ( מקרא ), meaning `` कि which is पढ़ा '', is an वैकल्पिक Hebrew term लिये the Tanakh.
The books of the Tanakh यहूद relayed साथ an accompanying मौखिक tradition passed on by प्रत्येक generation, पुकारा the मौखिक Torah.
the कावासाकी Ninja ZX-6R is a Kawasaki 600 cc class खेल motorcycle.
it was introduced in 1995, and रै been constantly updated throughout the सालो in response to नई उत्पाद इससे होंडा, Suzuki, and यामाहा.
the ZX श्रेणी is what was known as the Ninja line of Kawasaki motorcycles in the 1980s और still carries the नाम today.
Assassination कोशिशें and भूखंड on Presidents of the United राज्य have been numerous : अधिक than 20 कोशिशें to kill sitting and पूर्व राष्ट्रपतियों, as खूब as the Presidents-elect, are known.
चार sitting presidents have महरूम मारे : अब्राहम Lincoln ( the 16th President ), James A. Garfield ( the 20th अध्यक्ष ), विलियम McKinley ( the 25th President ) and जॉन F. Kennedy ( the 35th अध्यक्ष ).
Two presidents were injured in attempted assassinations : पूर्व अध्यक्ष Theodore Roosevelt ( the 26th अध्यक्ष ), and President रोनाल्ड Reagan ( the 40th अध्यक्ष ).
Although the इतिहासकार J.W. क्लार्क has सुझाया that most American assassinations were नीतियां प्रेरित क्रियाएँ, carried out by rational men, नहीं सब ऐसे हमले have महरूम undertaken for राजनैतिक कारण.
Some हमलावर had questionable दिमागी स्थिरता, and a few were judged legally उन्मादी.
चूंकि the Vice अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States has लिये अधिक than a century been elected इससे the वही राजनैतिक पार्टी as the President, the हत्या of the अध्यक्ष is unlikely to result in प्रमुख policy changes.
इस may बताइये क्यों political समूह typically do not मेक such हमले.
जहाँ the Red फर्न Grows is a novel लिखा by विल्सन Rawls in 1961 about a boy who buys और trains two redbone Coonhound hunting कुत्तो.
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa, Cayuga : gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a राज्य स्तिथ in West दक्षिण Central United States.
Oklahoma is the 20th सबसे extensive और the 28th most populous of the 50 United States.
The राज्य 's name is निकला from the Choctaw शब्द okla और humma, अर्थ `` red people '', and it is ज्ञात informally by its nickname, the Sooner State.
Formed by the combination of ओक्लाहोमा territory and भारतीय Territory on November 16, 1907, ओक्लाहोमा was the 46th state to डालें the संघ.
इसके residents are known as oklahomans or, informally `` Okies '', and इसके पूंजी and largest नगर is Oklahoma नगर.
A major निर्माता of प्राकृतिक gas, oil, and agriculture, ओक्लाहोमा relies on an आर्थिक आधार of विमानन, उर्जा, दूरसंचार, और जैवप्रौद्योगिकी.
it रै one of the तीव्रतम growing economies in the nation, ranking among the शीर्ष states in per capita income growth and सकल domestic उत्पाद विकास.
Oklahoma City और तुलसा serve as Oklahoma 's प्राथमिक economic anchors, with nearly दो thirds of Oklahomans जीना within उनके महानगर statistical क्षेत्रों.
साथ small पहाड़ ranges, प्रेयरी, mesas, और eastern वनों, most of ओक्लाहोमा झूठ in the ग्रेट Plains and the u.s. Interior हाइलैंड्स —a region especially prone to कठोर weather.
In addition to having a prevalence of अंग्रेज़ी, German, स्कॉटिश, आयरिश and Native अमरीकी ancestry, more than 25 देशी अमरीकी भाषाएं are बोला in Oklahoma, दूसरी only to California.
ओक्लाहोमा is located on a confluence of three प्रमुख American सांस्कृतिक regions और historically परोसा as a route for cattle drives, a destination लिये southern settlers, and a government-sanctioned territory लिये Native Americans.
Redwall, by ब्रायन Jacques, is a series of children 's fantasy novels.
it is the title of the पहला book of the श्रेणी, published in 1986, as खूब as the नाम of the Abbey प्रदर्शित in the book and the name of an animated TV श्रेणी आधारित on तीन of the novels ( Redwall, Mattimeo, and Martin the Warrior ), which first aired in 1999.
The किताबे हैं primarily aimed at older children, लकिन have fans of सब आयु.
There have महरूम twenty-two novels और दो चित्र किताबे प्रकाशित.
the twenty-second, और फाइनल, novel, the Rogue क्रू, थी posthumously released on May 3, 2011.
प्राकृतिक गैस is usually measured by आवाज़ in the United States and is stated in घन फीट.
A घन पैर of gas is the amount of gas needed to भरण a आवाज़ of one cubic पैर अंतर्गत नियत शर्तें of दबाव and temperature.To measure larger amounts of प्राकृतिक gas, a `` therm '' is used to denote 100 cubic feet, and `` mcf '' is used to denote 1,000 घन feet.
To provide वृहद सटीकता in comparing fuels, energy content is measured in शर्तें of `` British थर्मल इकाई ( btu 's ). ''
A BTU is the amount of ऊष्मा required to raise एक पाउंड of water ( लगभग a pint ), एक degree फ़ारेनहाइट at or बंद to इसके पाइंट of maximum घनत्व.
One अंग्रेजों therm ( symbol thm ) is a non- si ईकाई of ऊष्मा energy बराबर to 100,000 British thermal इकाई ( btu ).
it is लगभग the energy equivalent of burning 100 घन feet ( प्रायः referred to as 1 CCF ) of natural gas.
Since ( Natural Gas ) meters measure volume and not उर्जा content, a therm factor is used by ( Natural ) गैस कंपनियाँ to convert the आवाज़ of gas used to इसके heat equivalent, and thus calculate the actual energy use.
the therm factor is प्रायः in the इकाई therms/ccf.
It होगा vary with the मिक्सर of hydrocarbons in the natural गैस.
प्राकृतिक गैस with a उच्चतर than average विशेषज्ञता of इथेन, प्रोपेन or butane will have a higher therm factor.
Impurities, ऐसे as carbon dioxide or nitrogen, lower the therm factor.
The volume of the gas is calculated as if measured at standard temperature and दबाव ( STP ).
The heat सामग्री of natural गैस is solely निर्भर on the composition of the गैस, and is स्वतंत्र of temperature और दबाव.
One therm is equal to परिचय 105.5 megajoules, 25,200 kilocalories or 29.3 kilowatt-hours.
एक therm can भी be provided by about of प्राकृतिक gas.
The therm sometimes रै been उलझन साथ the thermie ( देखिए नीचे ).
The names of both units आइये from the Greek शब्द for heat.
A thermie ( th ) is a metric unit of heat energy, भाग of the meter-tonne-second system sometimes प्रयुक्त by यूरोपीय इंजीनियर्स.
the thermie is equal to the amount of energy required to raise the तापमान of 1 tonne of water by 1 °c.
The thermie is समतुल्य to 1,000 kilocalories, 4.1868 megajoules or 3968.3 BTU.
the अमरीकी सिविल War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil युद्ध ( देखिए naming ), was a civil युद्ध लड़ा from 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त States ( the `` संघ '' or the `` North '' ) और अनेक Southern slave states that घोषित उनके secession और formed the confederate States of अमेरिका ( the `` confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
the war had इसके origin in the समस्या of slavery, especially the extension of गुलामी into the western territories.
Foreign powers did not intervene.
After four years of bloody कॉम्बैट कि left over 600,000 soldiers dead और नष्ट much of the South 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the difficult पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring national एकता and guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed स्लेव began.
in the 1860 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, Republicans, led by अब्राहम lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
Lincoln जीती, लकिन before his inauguration on कूच 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the confederacy.
outgoing लोकतांत्रिक President James Buchanan and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural पता declared his प्रशासन would नहीं initiate सिविल war.
Eight remaining slave states continued to reject calls for secession.
confederate forces जब्त numerous संघीय दुर्गों within territory claimed by the confederacy.
a सलाम सम्मेलन failed to ढूँढें a सुलह, and दोनो पहलू prepared for युद्ध.
The Confederates assumed that European countries यहूद so dependent on `` किंग Cotton `` that they होता intervene ; none did and none recognized the new confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter, a key फोर्ट held by Union सैनिकों in South कैरोलिना.
Lincoln called लिये प्रत्येक state to provide troops to retake the फोर्ट ; consequently, चार अधिक slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing उनके total to eleven.
the Union soon controlled the border states and established a naval नाकेबंदी that अबोध the southern economy.
The Eastern थिएटर was inconclusive in 1861–62.
the पतझड़ 1862 confederate campaign into मेरीलैंड ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate रिट्रीट at the Battle of antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln जारी the Emancipation Proclamation, which made समाप्ति slavery a युद्ध लक्ष्य.
To the वेस्ट, by गर्मियाँ 1862 the Union नष्ट the Confederate नदी navy, तब much of their western सेना, and the Union at vicksburg split the confederacy in दो at the Mississippi नदी.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western सफलताओं led to Ulysses S. Grant command of सब संघ सेना in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. शरमन drove east to capture Atlanta और marched to the sea, destroying Confederate अवसंरचना along the way.
the Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions, और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of attrition through the Overland अभियान towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, leading to Lee 's surrender to ग्रान्ट at Appomattox Court House on अप्रैल 9, 1865.
The अमरीकी Civil War थी one of the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced हथियार यहूद employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, खानों, shipyards, banks, transportation और खाना आपूर्तियाँ सब foreshadowed संसार War I.
it remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined क्रमांक of civilian casualties.
इतिहासकार जॉन Huddleston estimates the death टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of सब Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
विलियम Bruce Jenner ( born October 28, 1949 ) is a former U.S. track और फ़ील्ड खिलाड़ी, motivational स्पीकर, socialite, टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व और businessman.
He जीती the gold पदक for decathlon in the Montreal 1976 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक.
Following his Olympic जीत and the related recognition, he married क्रिस Kardashian, and his professional career evolved into होने a television हस्ती.
By 1981, he था starred in several made-for-TV movies और थी Erik एस्ट्राडा 's बदलना on the top रेटेड TV श्रेणी CHiPs.
He रै six children : Burt, केसी, Brandon, ब्रोडी, Kendall और Kylie.
चूंकि his 1991 marriage to Kris जेनर, he is the stepfather to Kourtney, Kim, khloe and Rob Kardashian.
Since 2007, he has appeared with his blended परिवार on Keeping Up with the Kardashians.
escherichia कोलाई ( ; commonly abbreviated E. coli ) is a Gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium that is commonly found in the निम्नतर intestine of warm-blooded जीवों ( endotherms ).
Most E. कोलाई strains are हानिरहित, लकिन some serotypes can cause serious food poisoning in इंसानो, and हैं occasionally responsible लिये product recalls due to खाना contamination.
The हानिरहित strains are part of the सामान्य flora of the आंत, और can benefit their होस्ट by producing vitamin k2, and by preventing the स्थापना of रोगजनक जीवाणु within the intestine.
E. coli and related bacteria constitute परिचय 0.1 % of gut flora, and fecal–oral transmission is the प्रमुख route through जिससे रोगजनक strains of the bacterium कारण disease.
Cells हैं able to survive outside the body लिये a limited amount of समय, which makes them आदर्श indicator organisms to परीक्षण environmental samples लिये fecal contamination.
वहीँ is, however, a growing देह of शोध कि has examined environmentally persistent E. coli which can survive for विस्तारित periods बाहर of the host.
The bacterium can also be grown easily and inexpensively in a laboratory setting, and has been intensively investigated for over 60 years.
E. coli is the सबसे widely studied prokaryotic model organism, और an important species in the fields of biotechnology and microbiology, where it रै served as the host organism for the majority of कार्य with recombinant DNA.
Area code 217 is the North American टेलीफोन area code for much of western and central इलिनोइस.
the 217 क्षेत्रफल शामिल Illinois ' capital, Springfield, plus Champaign, Urbana, Decatur, Danville, क्विंसी, and Rantoul.
217 was one of the असली क्षेत्रफल codes, which were created in 1947.
The only significant बदलें in 217 's boundaries थी in 1957, जब इसके northern portion was combined with भाग of area कोड 815 to रूप area code 309.
Image of the largest अंटार्कटिक ozone hole कभी अंकित ( सितंबर 2006 ), over the Southern pole
परतों of the माहौल ( नहीं to scale )
Ozone depletion describes two distinct लकिन सम्बन्धित phenomena observed since the late 1970s : a steady मनाही of about 4 % per दशक in the कुल आवाज़ of ozone in Earth 's stratosphere ( the ozone layer ), and a much larger springtime घटी in stratospheric ओज़ोन over Earth 's ध्रुवीय regions.
the latter घटना is referred to as the ozone hole.
In addition to these well-known stratospheric phenomena, वहीँ are also springtime polar tropospheric ozone depletion कार्यक्रम.
the विवरण of polar ozone छेद गठन differ from that of mid-latitude thinning, but the सबसे important प्रक्रम in दोनो is catalytic destruction of ओज़ोन by atomic halogens.
The main सोर्स of these halogen अणु in the stratosphere is photodissociation of man-made halocarbon refrigerants ( cfcs, freons, halons ).
These compounds are transported into the stratosphere after being emitted at the सतह.
Both types of ओज़ोन depletion were observed to बढ़ाएँ as emissions of halo-carbons increased.
CFCs और अन्य contributory substances हैं referred to as ozone-depleting substances ( ODS ).
Since the ozone layer रोकता most harmful UVB wavelengths ( 280–315 nm ) of ultraviolet light ( uv लाइट ) इससे passing through the Earth 's atmosphere, observed and projected decreases in ozone have उत्पन्न worldwide concern leading to अपनाना of the मॉन्ट्रियल प्रोटोकॉल that bans the production of cfcs, halons, and other ozone-depleting chemicals such as carbon tetrachloride और trichloroethane.
it is suspected that a किस्में of biological consequences such as increases in स्किन cancer, cataracts, क्षति to plants, and कटौती of plankton populations in the समंदर 's photic मण्डल may परिणाम इससे the increased UV exposure due to ओज़ोन depletion.
The प्रस्तावना to the United States संविधान is a ब्रैड परिचयात्मक statement of the संविधान 's fundamental उद्देश्य and guiding principles.
it states in सामान्य शर्तें, and courts have referred to it as विश्वसनीय evidence of, the Founding fathers ' इरादों regarding the Constitution 's अर्थ और कया they hoped the Constitution would achieve as it pertains to सब of the लोगों of the संयुक्त States.
as the phrase, `` we the people '' suggests कि the new government originates from the लोगों of the United States and it sets into motion a question as it pertains to that विशाल population concerning the individual अधिकारों और equality among all लोगों ; this can be seen सबसे broadly in the divide between republicanism and सोशल democracy.
Czechoslovakian शॉट putter Plihan at the 1957 ईस्ट जर्मनी Indoor एथलेटिक्स Championships
The shot put ( pronounced ) is a track और field इवेंट involving `` throwing '' / '' putting '' ( throwing in a pushing गति ) a heavy spherical ऑब्जेक्ट —the shot—as दूर as संभावित.
The shot put competition लिये men रै been a part of the आधुनिक Olympics since उनके revival in 1896, women 's competition began in 1948.
Map of the United Nations ( un ) member states, साथ उनके territories ( सहित dependent territories ) recognized by the un in ब्लू
There हैं United Nations ( un ) member राज्य, and प्रत्येक of उन्हें is a member of the United राष्ट्र General Assembly.
The criteria लिये admission of नई सदस्यों हैं set out in the United राष्ट्र चार्टर, Chapter II, आलेख 4:
A recommendation for admission इससे the Security Council requires affirmative votes इससे at तनिक nine of the परिषद 's पंद्रह सदस्यों, with none of the five permanent सदस्यों मतदान against.
The Security Council 's recommendation must then be subsequently approved in the General सभा by a two-thirds majority vote.
In principle, only sovereign states can become UN members, and currently सब UN members हैं sovereign राज्य ( although a few members were not sovereign when they joined the un ).
क्युकी a state can only be admitted to the UN by the स्वीकृति of the Security Council and the General Assembly, a क्रमांक of राज्य कि may be माना sovereign राज्य according to the Montevideo Convention मापदण्ड हैं not सदस्यों because the UN करता नहीं consider them to possess sovereignty, mainly due to the कमी of अंतरराष्ट्रीय recognition or opposition from निश्चित सदस्यों.
In addition to the member राज्य, the UN भी आमंत्रण non-member states ( currently two : the पावन See and Palestine ), intergovernmental संगठन, and अन्य international संगठन and entities whose statehood or sovereignty are नहीं precisely पारिभाषित, to become observers at the General Assembly, allowing them to participate और speak, लकिन not vote, in General सभा meetings.
the Eiffel मीनार (, ) is an iron जाली मीनार located on the Champ de Mars in Paris, नामित after the engineer gustave Eiffel, जिनकी कम्पनी designed and निर्मित the tower.
erected in 1889 as the entrance मेहराब to the 1889 संसार 's Fair, it has become both a वैश्विक cultural प्रतीक of फ़्रांस और one of the सबसे recognizable structures in the संसार.
The tower is the tallest structure in Paris and the most-visited सशुल्क monument in the संसार ; 7.1 million people ascended it in 2011.
The third level वेधशाला 's upper मंच is at the highest accessible to public in the यूरोपीय संघ and the उच्चतम in Europe as long as the platform of the ostankino Tower, at, remains closed as a result of the आग of अगस्त 2000.
the tower received its 250 millionth आगंतुक in 2010.
The tower stands tall, about the वही ऊँचाई as an 81-storey भवन.
दौरान इसके construction, the Eiffel Tower surpassed the वॉशिंगटन Monument to assume the शीर्षक of the tallest man-made ढांचा in the संसार, a title it held लिये 41 सालो, until the क्रिसलर Building in New York नगर was निर्मित in 1930.
क्युकी of the addition, in 1957, of the antenna atop the Eiffel Tower, it is now taller than the Chrysler Building.
Not including broadcast antennas, it is the second-tallest structure in France, बाद the millau Viaduct.
The tower has तीन levels लिये विज़िटर.
Tickets can be खरीदा to ascend, by stairs or लिफ्ट ( elevator ), to the पहला and दूसरी स्तर.
The walk from ground level to the first level is over 300 कदम, as is the चलना from the पहला to the second level.
The तीसरा and highest level is accessible only by lift—stairs do exist but हैं usually closed to the पब्लिक.
The first and दूसरी levels have रेस्तरां.
The मीनार has become the most prominent symbol of both पेरिस और फ़्रांस, प्रायः in the establishing shot of films set in the नगर.
Kenneth वेन `` Ken '' Jennings iii ( born May 23, 1974 ) is an अमरीकी खेल दिखाएँ contestant और author.
जेनिंग्स is विख्यात for holding the record for the longest जीतना streak on the U.S. syndicated खेल दिखाएँ jeopardy !
and as होने the all-time अग्रणी money winner on American game shows.
In 2004, Jennings जीती 74 jeopardy !
खेल before he थी defeated by challenger Nancy zerg on his 75th रूप.
His कुल आय on Jeopardy !
are $ 3,172,700, consisting of $ 2,520,700 over his 74 wins, a $ 2,000 second-place पुरस्कार in his 75th रूप, a $ 500,000 second-place पुरस्कार in the jeopardy !
परम Tournament of Champions, as well as half of a $ 300,000 पुरस्कार in the ibm Challenge.
During his पहला run of jeopardy !
appearances, Jennings earned the record लिये the highest American खेल show winnings.
His total was surpassed by ब्रैड rutter, who पराजित जेनिंग्स in the फाइनल of the Jeopardy !
परम टूर्नामेंट of champions ( first aired on may 25, 2005 ), adding $ 2,000,000 to Rutter 's existing jeopardy !
winnings.
Jennings regained the record after appearing on अनेक अन्य खेल shows, culminating in an appearance on Are You Smarter than a 5th Grader ?
( पहला aired on अक्तूबर 10, 2008 ), though rutter retains the Jeopardy !
record.
बाद उसके success on Jeopardy !, Jennings लिखा परिचय his experience और explored American trivia इतिहास and culture in his किताब brainiac : Adventures in the जिज्ञासु, प्रतिस्पर्धी, बाध्यता World of Trivia buffs, published in 2006.
The Canadian Football League or cfl ( ' [ LCF ] in फ्रेंच ) is a पेशेवर खेल league स्तिथ in Canada.
the CFL is the highest स्तर of प्रतियोगिता in Canadian फ़ुटबॉल, a form of gridiron football closely related to American football.
Its eight current teams, which हैं located in आठ पृथक cities, are divided into दो divisions of four टीमों each — the ईस्ट Division and the West Division.
The लीग 's 19-week regular season runs from late जून to जल्दी नवम्बर ; प्रत्येक टोली plays 18 खेल with one bye सप्ताह.
following the regular season, the तीन टीमों साथ the बेहतरीन रिकॉर्ड in their division ( मगर if the fourth place टोली in एक प्रभाग has a better record than the third प्लेस टोली in the other division, जब the टोली with the बेहतर record makes the playoffs and `` crosses over '' to the other division 's playoff ) compete in the लीग 's three-week divisional playoffs, जिससे culminate in the late-November Grey Cup championship, the देश 's largest सालाना खेल and television इवेंट.
the cfl was officially संस्थापित on जनवरी 19, 1958, making it the दूसरी oldest gridiron फ़ुटबॉल league in उत्तर America still in आपरेशन, हालांकि all its टीमों long predate the modern गठन of the league.
It is the उच्चतम स्तर of खेल in Canadian football, the सबसे लोकप्रिय फ़ुटबॉल league in कनाडा, and the second-most popular major sports league in Canada, बाद the National Hockey League.
Although ice हॉकी is Canada 's सबसे लोकप्रिय खेल, the cfl has increased the popularity of कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल in क्यूबेक and पश्चिमी Canada.
Canadian फ़ुटबॉल is also played at amateur levels ( i.e. youth, high school, CJFL, qjfl, CIS और senior लीग such as the Alberta Football League ).
The 2010s होगा be a significant दशक लिये the cfl in शर्तें of विकास, as teams have renovated, expanded stadiums, or योजना to निर्माण entirely new stadiums.
The मॉन्ट्रियल अलॉतेस accomplished this first, adding 5,000 सीटे to Percival molson मेमोरियल Stadium in time लिये the 2010 cfl season.
The एडमॉन्टन एस्किमोस and Calgary स्तेमपेड्रस also renovated their respective stadiums और facilities for the 2010 season.
in 2011, the BC शेर निभाई under a नई, retractable छत in bc प्लेस after बिता एक and a half सीज़न at Empire फ़ील्ड.
तब the Winnipeg Blue Bombers होगा खेल in an entirely new stadium at the University of मनिटोबा, scheduled to खोलें in time for the 2013 ऋतु.
The Hamilton tiger-cats, saskatchewan Roughriders और the नई ओटावा मताधिकार हैं भी looking at new or extensively-renovated stadiums in the following years.
वहीँ are also hopes of expanding the league to Atlantic कनाडा ( ideally basing a team in either the more populated Halifax, or the अधिक centralized Moncton ), as 2010 and 2011 था regular ऋतु games hosted in Moncton.
According to sports historian Douglas Brei, the Canadian फ़ुटबॉल League holds the भेद of being the तभी professional sports league in North America, major or minor लीग, in जिससे प्रत्येक existing मताधिकार रै won at least one league title while in their current location.
Each एंटीबॉडी binds to a specific antigen ; an बातचीत समान to a lock और कुंजी.
An antibody ( Ab ), also known as an immunoglobulin ( ig ), is a विशाल Y-shaped प्रोटीन उत्पादित by B-cells that is प्रयुक्त by the प्रतिरक्षा system to पहचानो और neutralize विदेशी objects such as bacteria और viruses.
The antibody recognizes a अद्वितीय part of the विदेशी निशाना, called an प्रतिजन.
Each टिप of the `` y '' of an antibody contains a paratope ( a ढांचा analogous to a lock ) that is specific लिये one particular epitope ( similarly analogous to a कुंजी ) on an प्रतिजन, allowing ये two structures to bind साथ साथ precision.
Using this binding यांत्रिकी, an antibody can टैग a microbe or an संक्रमित cell for आक्रमण by अन्य parts of the प्रतिरक्षा system, or can neutralize its निशाना सीधे ( for उदाहरण, by blocking a भाग of a microbe कि is essential लिये its invasion और survival ).
The production of antibodies is the main function of the humoral immune system.
antibodies are secreted by a type of white blood cell पुकारा a plasma cell.
Antibodies can occur in two शारीरिक forms, a घुलनशील रूप that is स्रावित from the cell, and a membrane -bound form कि is संलग्न to the surface of a b cell और is referred to as the B कोशिका receptor ( bcr ).
The BCR is only found on the surface of b cells और facilitates the सक्रियण of ये कोशिकाएं and their subsequent differentiation into either एंटीबॉडी factories called plasma कोशिकाएं, or memory b कोशिकाएं that होगा survive in the body और remember कि वही antigen so the B cells can respond faster upon future exposure.
In सबसे मामले, interaction of the B cell with a T हेल्पर कोशिका is necessary to produce full सक्रियण of the b cell and, इसलिए, antibody पीढी following प्रतिजन binding.
Soluble antibodies are released into the रक्त और tissue fluids, as well as many secretions to continue to सर्वेक्षण for आक्रमणकारी microorganisms.
antibodies हैं glycoproteins belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily ; the terms एंटीबॉडी और immunoglobulin are प्रायः used interchangeably.
Antibodies are typically बना of basic structural units—each with दो large भारी chains और दो छोटी लाइट chains.
There हैं अनेक अलग प्रकार of एंटीबॉडी heavy chains, और several different kinds of antibodies, जिससे are grouped into different isotypes based on जिससे भारी कड़ी वे possess.
Five different antibody isotypes are known in mammals, which perform different roles, and help सीधा the उचित immune जवाब for each different type of foreign object they encounter.
Though the सामान्य structure of all antibodies is very similar, a छोटी region at the टिप of the प्रोटीन is अत्यधिक variable, allowing लाखो of antibodies साथ थोड़ा different tip structures, or प्रतिजन binding sites, to मौजूद.
This region is known as the hypervariable region.
प्रत्येक of these विसंगतियाँ can bind to a अलग antigen.
This enormous diversity of antibodies allows the immune प्रणाली to recognize an equally चौड़ी किस्में of antigens.
the large and विविध जनसांख्यिकी of antibodies is उत्पन्न by यादृच्छिक combinations of a नियत of जीन segments कि encode अलग प्रतिजन बाइंडिंग sites ( or paratopes ), followed by random mutations in this क्षेत्रफल of the antibody जीन, जिससे create further विविधता.
एंटीबॉडी genes भी re-organize in a process called class switching that changes the आधार of the भारी chain to another, creating a different isotype of the एंटीबॉडी that retains the प्रतिजन विशिष्ट variable region.
इस allows a single एंटीबॉडी to be used by several अलग parts of the immune प्रणाली.
the प्रतीक used by the Zodiac Killer to sign his correspondence
The zodiac Killer was a सीरियल killer जो संचालित in Northern California in the late 1960s और early 1970s.
the killer 's पहचान remains unknown.
The zodiac murdered पीड़ितों in Benicia, Vallejo, Lake berryessa, and San Francisco between दिसम्बर 1968 और October 1969.
चार men और three women between the ages of 16 and 29 यहूद targeted.
the killer originated the नाम `` Zodiac '' in a series of taunting letters sent to the local Bay Area दबायें.
ये अक्षर included चार cryptograms ( or ciphers ).
Of the four cryptograms sent, only एक has महरूम definitively हल.
Suspects have been named by law प्रवर्तन और amateur investigators, लकिन no conclusive प्रमाण has surfaced.
In April 2004, the सैन Francisco पुलिस विभाग marked the case `` inactive '', yet re-opened the case at some point prior to March 2007.
the मामला also remains खोलें in the नगर of Vallejo, as well as in Napa काउंटी और solano County.
The कैलिफ़ोर्निया विभाग of Justice रै maintained an open case संचिका on the Zodiac murders since 1969.
Jennings is a छोटी city in और the parish सीट of Jefferson Davis मोहल्ला, Louisiana, United States, near झील चार्ल्स.
The population was 10,383 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, a छोटी मनाही from the 2000 tabulation.
The city is 68 percent श्वेत.
Jennings is the principal city of the Jennings Micropolitan Statistical Area, which includes सब of Jefferson डेविस Parish.
it is भी part of the larger Lake Charles-Jennings Combined सांख्यिकीय Area.
Nanotechnology ( sometimes shortened to `` nanotech '' ) is the हेरफेर of matter on an atomic और molecular स्केल.
The earliest, widespread वर्णन of nanotechnology referred to the particular technological लक्ष्य of precisely manipulating अणु and molecules for fabrication of macroscale products, also अभी referred to as molecular nanotechnology.
A more generalized description of nanotechnology was subsequently established by the National Nanotechnology Initiative, which defines nanotechnology as the manipulation of matter साथ at least एक dimension sized from 1 to 100 nanometers.
इस definition reflects the fact that quantum mechanical effects are महत्वपूर्ण at इस quantum-realm scale, और so the definition shifted from a particular technological goal to a research श्रेणी inclusive of सब types of शोध और technologies that सौदे with the खास गुण of matter that occur नीचे the given size threshold.
It is therefore common to देखिए the बहुवचन रूप `` nanotechnologies '' as खूब as `` nanoscale technologies '' to refer to the broad range of research और अनुप्रयोग जिनकी आम trait is size.
क्युकी of the किस्में of संभावित अनुप्रयोग ( सहित औद्योगिक और military ), governments have invested billions of डॉलर in nanotechnology शोध.
through इसके National nanotechnology Initiative, the USA has invested 3.7 अरब dollars.
the यूरोपीय Union has invested 1.2 अरब और Japan 750 लाख dollars.
nanotechnology as defined by आकार is naturally बहुत broad, including fields of विज्ञान as विविध as सतह विज्ञान, organic रसायन, आणविक जीवविज्ञान, semiconductor भौतिकी, microfabrication, etc.
the संबद्ध research and अनुप्रयोग are equally विविध, ranging from एक्सटेंशन of conventional device भौतिकी to completely नई approaches आधारित upon molecular self-assembly, from विकासशील new materials with dimensions on the nanoscale to direct control of matter on the atomic scale.
Scientists currently debate the भविष्य implications of nanotechnology.
nanotechnology may be able to बनाएँ many नई materials और डिवाइस with a विशाल range of applications, such as in medicine, electronics, biomaterials and energy production.
On the other हाथ, nanotechnology raises many of the same मुद्दे as कोई नई प्रौद्योगिकी, including चिंताएं about the toxicity और environmental impact of nanomaterials, and उनके potential effects on global economics, as खूब as speculation about various doomsday scenarios.
These concerns have led to a debate among वकालत groups और governments on whether खास regulation of nanotechnology is warranted.
Map of the Eastern Bloc
The पद पूर्वी Bloc or Communist Bloc refers to the पूर्व communist states of Central and Eastern Europe, generally the सोवियत संघ and the देशों of the Warsaw अनुबंध.
the शर्तें कम्युनिस्ट Bloc और Soviet Bloc were also प्रयुक्त to denote groupings of states aligned with the सोवियत Union, although these शर्तें might include राज्य बाहर Central और Eastern यूरोपीय.
the New जर्सी gubernatorial election of 2009 took place on November 3, 2009.
Democratic राज्यपाल Jon Corzine थी running for a second पद and थी being challenged by रिपब्लिकन Chris क्रिस्टी, स्वतंत्र Christopher Daggett and nine अन्य, in addition to several write-in candidates.
क्रिस्टी जीती the election, साथ about 48.5 प्रतिशत of the vote, to 44.9 प्रतिशत for Corzine and 5.8 percent for daggett.
क्रिस्टी जीती the largest margin for a first term Republican चूंकि 1969.
Christie assumed office on January 19, 2010.
इस थी the first election to भरण the newly created office of लेफ्टिनेंट राज्यपाल.
The candidates for राज्यपाल and लेफ्टिनेंट governor यहूद joined साथ as a single चुनाव, so कि मतदाता किया नहीं have the अवसर to split the टिकट.
Kim Guadagno, Christie 's running mate, became New जर्सी 's पहला लेफ्टिनेंट governor following her उद्घाटन.
Health परवाह in the संयुक्त States is provided by अनेक पृथक organizations.
Health परवाह सुविधाएं हैं largely owned और operated by private सेक्टर व्यवसायों.
Health बीमे for public सेक्टर employees is primarily provided by the government.
60-65 % of healthcare provision और बिता comes from programs such as medicare, medicaid, TRICARE, the children 's स्वास्थ्य बीमे कार्यक्रम, and the Veterans स्वास्थ्य Administration.
Most of the population under 65 is insured by उनके or a परिवार member 's नियोक्ता, कुछ buy स्वास्थ्य insurance on उनके अपना, और the शेष are uninsured.
of 17 high-income देशों studied by the नेशनल Institutes of Health in 2013, the United राज्य was at or निकट the नीचे in शिशु मृत्यु, heart and फेफड़ों बीमारी, sexually transmitted infections, adolescent pregnancies, injuries, homicides, and rates of disability.
Together, ऐसे issues प्लेस the U.S. at the bottom of the list for जीवन expectancy.
On average, a U.S. पुरूष can be expected to सजीव almost four fewer सालो than those in the top-ranked country.
according to the World Health Organization ( जो ), the संयुक्त राज्य खर्च more on स्वास्थ्य care प्रति capita ( $ 7,146 ), and अधिक on स्वास्थ्य care as percentage of इसके GDP ( 15.2 % ), than any other nation in 2008.
The Commonwealth Fund क्रमित the संयुक्त States last in the विशेषता of स्वास्थ्य care among समान countries, and notes U.S. care costs the most.
The U.S. जनसांख्यिकी Bureau reported कि 49.9 million residents, 16.3 % of the population, यहूद uninsured in 2010 ( up from 49.0 million residents, 16.1 % of the population, in 2009 ).
a 2004 Institute of आयुर्विज्ञान ( IOM ) रपट कहा : `` the संयुक्त States is among the few industrialized nations in the world that does not guarantee अभिगम to स्वास्थ्य care for its जनसांख्यिकी. ''
A 2004 OECD report said : `` साथ the exception of मैक्सिको, Turkey, and the संयुक्त States, सब oecd countries था achieved universal or near-universal ( at least 98.4 % insured ) कवरेज of their populations by 1990. ''
a 2010 report observed कि lack of स्वास्थ्य बीमे कल्याणकारी roughly 48,000 unnecessary मौतों प्रत्येक साल in the संयुक्त राज्य.
in 2007, 62.1 % of filers for bankruptcies claimed high medical खर्च.
a 2013 study found कि about 25 % of सब senior नागरिकों declare दिवालियापन due to medical खर्च, and 43 % are मजबूर to mortgage or sell their प्राथमिक residence.
On March 23, 2010, the Patient Protection and सस्ती Care Act ( PPACA ) became law, providing लिये प्रमुख changes in health बीमे.
In physiology, body water is the water content of the इंसान body.
A significant fraction of the इंसान body is जल.
Arthur Guyton 's Textbook of चिकित्सा physiology states that `` the कुल amount of water in a man of औसत weight ( 70 गामा ) is approximately 40 लीटर, averaging 57 percent of his total देह वज़न.
In a newborn शिशु, this may be as ऊँची as 75 percent of the देह weight, but it progressively decreases इससे जनम to old age, सबसे of the घटी occurring दौरान the पहला 10 years of life.
भी, obesity decreases the प्रतिशत of water in the देह, sometimes to as low as 45 percent ''.
ये figures are सांख्यिकीय averages, so are illustrative, and like all biostatistics, will vary with बाते like प्रकार of population, age और number of लोगों sampled, and methodology.
so there is नहीं, और can नहीं be, a figure कि is exactly the same for all people, for इस or any other physiological measure.
लिये उदाहरण, Jackson 's ( 1985 ) anatomy & Physiology लिये Nurses gives a figure of 60 % लिये the proportion of body-weight attributable to water, जिससे approximates Guyton 's 57 %.
In diseased राज्य जहाँ देह water is प्रभावित, the compartment or compartments that have changed can दे clues to the प्रकृति of the प्रॉब्लम.
Body जल is regulated by hormones, सहित anti-diuretic हार्मोन ( ADH ), aldosterone and atrial natriuretic पेप्टाइड.
प्रति netter 's Atlas of Human Physiology, body जल is टूटा down into the following कम्पार्टमेंटs:
Intracellular fluid ( 2/3 of देह जल ).
प्रति Guyton, in a body containing 40 litres of fluid, about 25 litres is intracellular, जिससे amounts to 62.5 % ( 5/8 ), close पर्याप्त to the 2/3 नियम of अंगूठा.
जैक्सन 's ग्रन्थ states 70 % of देह द्रव is intracellular.
Extracellular fluid ( 1/3 of देह water ).
Per Guyton 's illustration, लिये a 40 लीटर body, about 15 लीटर is extracellular, जिससे amounts to 37.5 % again, this is बंद to the 1/3 rule of thumb cited here.
Plasma ( 1/5 of extracellular द्रव ).
प्रति Guyton 's उदाहरण, of the 15 litres of extracellular fluid, plasma volume averages 3 litres.
This amounts to 20 %, the वही as per netter 's Atlas.
Interstitial द्रव ( 4/5 of extracellular द्रव )
Transcellular द्रव ( a.k.a. `` तीसरा स्पेस, '' normally उपेक्षित in calculations )
contained inside अंगों, ऐसे as the gastrointestinal, cerebrospinal, उदरावरणीय, और ocular fluids.
Self-esteem is a term used in psychology to प्रतिबिंबित a व्यक्ति 's overall emotional evaluation of उसके or उसके अपना लायक.
it is a निर्णय of oneself as well as an attitude toward the self.
Self-esteem encompasses beliefs ( लिये example, `` I am competent, '' `` i am worthy '' ) and emotions ऐसे as triumph, despair, pride and शर्म.
Smith और mackie define it by saying `` The self-concept is कया we think about the स्वः ; self-esteem, is the धनात्मक or ऋणात्मक evaluations of the self, as in how we feel about it. ''
Self-esteem is भी known as the evaluative dimension of the self कि शामिल feelings of worthiness, prides और discouragement.
One 's self-esteem is भी closely associated साथ self-consciousness.
Self-esteem is a disposition that a person रै जिससे represents their निर्णयों of their own worthiness.
In the mid-1960s, Morris Rosenberg and social-learning theorists पारिभाषित self-esteem as a personal worth or worthiness.
Nathaniel Branden in 1969 पारिभाषित self-esteem as `` the experience of being competent to cope with the basic चुनौतियां of life and being worthy of happiness. ''
According to Branden, self-esteem is the योग of self-confidence ( a अहसास of निजी capacity ) and self-respect ( a feeling of निजी लायक ).
It exists as a consequence of the implicit judgement that प्रत्येक person has of their क्षमता to face life 's challenges, to समझे and solve problems, और उनके right to achieve happiness, and be given respect.
As a social psychological construct, self-esteem is आकर्षक क्युकी शोधकर्ताओं have conceptualized it as an influential predictor of relevant outcomes, ऐसे as academic achievement ( दलदल 1990 ) or exercise बर्ताव ( Hagger et al. 1998 ).
in addition, self-esteem रै also महरूम treated as an important outcome due to its close relation साथ psychological well-being ( दलदल 1989 ).
self-esteem can लागू specifically to a particular आयाम ( लिये example, `` I मानना I am a good writer और I महसूस happy about कि '' ) or a वैश्विक extent ( for example, `` I मानना I am a bad व्यक्ति, and feel ख़राब about myself in general '' ).
psychologists usually regard self-esteem as an enduring personality characteristic ( `` trait '' self-esteem ), हालांकि normal, short-term विसंगतियाँ ( `` state '' self-esteem ) भी exist.
समानार्थी or near-synonyms of self-esteem include : self-worth, self-regard, self-respect, और self-integrity.
a Masonic आवास, often termed a Private आवास or constituent Lodge, is the basic organisational ईकाई of Freemasonry.
Every new आवास must be warranted or chartered by a ग्रैंड Lodge, but is subject to its direction तभी in enforcing the published Constitution of the jurisdiction.
by एक्सेप्शन the तीन surviving lodges कि formed the संसार 's पहला known ग्रैंड Lodge in London ( आज पुकारा the संयुक्त Grand Lodge of England ) have the unique privilege to operate as time immemorial i.e. बगैर such warrant ; तभी one अन्य आवास operates without a warrant - इस is the ग्रैंड Stewards ' आवास in London, हालांकि it is not भी हकदार to the `` समय immemorial '' title.
a freemason is generally entitled to visit कोई Lodge, in कोई jurisdiction ( i.e. अंतर्गत any Grand Lodge ) in amity with his अपना.
in कुछ jurisdictions this privilege is प्रतिबंधित to निपुण Masons ( कि is, Freemasons who have attained the Order 's तीसरा उपाधि ).
He is first usually required to check, and certify, the regularity of the relationship of the आवास - और be able to satisfy that आवास of his नियमितता of सदस्यता.
Freemasons एकत्रित साथ as a Lodge to कार्य the three basic Degrees of Entered प्रशिक्षु, Fellowcraft and निपुण मेसन.
Pilkington Group Limited is a बहुराष्ट्रीय कांच manufacturing company headquartered in St Helens, United Kingdom and a wholly स्वामित्व subsidiary of the japan-based NSG Group.
prior to its acquisition by NSG in 2006 it थी an स्वतंत्र कम्पनी listed on the London भण्डार Exchange और for a समय थी a constituent of the FTSE 100 अनुक्रमणिका.
A quotation is the repetition of one अभिव्यक्ति as part of another एक, particularly जब the quoted expression is well-known or explicitly attributed by citation to its असली source, and it is indicated by ( punctuated साथ ) quotation marks.
a quotation can also refer to the दोहराया use of units of कोई अन्य रूप of expression, especially parts of artistic works : elements of a पेंटिंग, scenes from a movie or sections from a musical composition.
साल 1877 ( mdccclxxvii ) was a आम year starting on Monday ( कड़ी will display the full पंचांग ) of the gregorian पंचांग और a common year starting on शनिवार of the 12-day slower Julian पंचांग.
Black pepper ( पाइपर nigrum ) is a flowering vine in the family piperaceae, cultivated लिये its fruit, which is usually dried and प्रयुक्त as a spice और seasoning.
The fruit, known as a peppercorn when सूखी, is approximately in व्यास, dark red when fully mature, and, like all drupes, contains a single बीज.
Peppercorns, and the ground pepper derived इससे them, may be described simply as pepper, or more precisely as black pepper ( पकाया and dried unripe फल ), ग्रीन pepper ( सूखी unripe फल ) and white pepper ( dried पके बीज ).
Black pepper is native to south India, और is extensively cultivated वहीँ और elsewhere in tropical regions.
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest निर्माता and निर्यातक of pepper, producing 34 % of the संसार 's Piper nigrum क्रॉप as of 2008.
Dried मैदान pepper has been used चूंकि प्राचीनता for both its फ्लेवर and as a medicine.
Black pepper is the world 's most traded spice.
It is one of the most common spices added to European भोजन और its descendants.
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the chemical piperine, not to be confused साथ the capsaicin that देता fleshy peppers theirs.
it is in the आधुनिक world, often युग्म साथ salt.
Fire hydrant in Charlottesville, वर्जिनिया, यूएसए
a आग hydrant ( भी known colloquially as a आग plug in the United राज्य or as a johnny pump in New York नगर ), is an active आग protection माप, and a सोर्स of water provided in most urban, suburban and rural areas साथ नगरपालिका water सेवा to enable firefighters to tap into the municipal water सप्लाई to assist in extinguishing a fire.
Buildings near a hydrant may qualify लिये an insurance छूट चूंकि firefighters चाहिए be able to अधिक rapidly extinguish a fire on the insured property.
the concept of fire plugs dates to at least the 17th सदी.
This थी a time when firefighters responding to a call would dig down to the लकड़ी water mains and hastily bore a छेद to सुरक्षित water to लड़ो फ़ायर.
The जल would भरण the hole creating a अस्थाई well, और be transported from the खूब to the आग by बाल्टी brigades or, बाद, by hand-pumped fire engines.
The छेद were तब plugged with stoppers, सामान्यतः redwood, जिससे over time आए to be known as fire plugs.
The स्थान of the plug होता प्रायः be अंकित or marked so कि it could be reused in भविष्य fires.
इस is the source of the colloquial term fire प्लग still used for fire hydrants आज.
After the Great आग of London in 1666, the नगर installed water मेन्स with छेद drilled at intervals, equipped साथ उठते, allowing an access point to the wooden आग plugs from street level.
The invention of a post- or pillar-type fire hydrant is generally credited to Frederick Graff sr., मुख्य Engineer of the फिलाडेल्फिया जल works around the साल 1801.
It था a संयोजन hose/faucet आउटलेट और was of `` wet बैरल '' डिज़ाइन with the वाल्व in the top.
It is said कि graff आयोजित the first पेटेंट for a आग hydrant, but this can नहीं be verified क्युकी the patent office in वॉशिंगटन d.C. caught on fire in 1836 destroying अनेक patent records इससे that period in the प्रक्रम.
The President of the गणतंत्र of South Africa is the सिर of राज्य and सिर of government under South अफ़्रीकी 's Constitution.
From 1961 to 1994, the head of राज्य was पुकारा the State President.
The President is elected by members of the नेशनल Assembly, the lower हाउस of Parliament, and is usually the नेता of the largest पार्टी, which रै been the अफ़्रीकी National कॉंग्रेस चूंकि the first non-racial चुनावों were held on 27 April 1994.
the role was originally founded to be distinct from the now defunct role of प्रधान minister, but the two roles यहूद merged in the 1983 संविधान जिससे निर्दिष्ट a four-year term of दफ्तर.
The 1993 and बाद constitutions हद the president 's time in office to two five-year शर्तें.
The पहला अध्यक्ष to be elected under the new संविधान was Nelson Mandela, and the incumbent president is याक़ूब Zuma.
Under the interim Constitution ( मान्य इससे 1994 to 1996 ), there was a सरकारी of नेशनल Unity, in जिससे an mp from the largest विपक्ष party थी entitled to a position as Deputy अध्यक्ष.
Along with Thabo mbeki, the last State अध्यक्ष, F.W. de Klerk also परोसा as डिप्टी President, in उसके capacity as the leader of the National Party which थी the second-largest पार्टी in the new पार्लियामेंट.
लकिन De klerk later resigned and गई into opposition साथ उसके पार्टी.
a voluntary coalition government continues to मौजूद under the new संविधान ( अपनाया in 1996 ), हालांकि there have महरूम no appointments of विपक्ष राजनेता to the post of deputy president.
खास education or special needs education is the education of विद्यार्थी with special needs in a रास्ता that addresses the students ' individual मतभेद और needs.
Ideally, this process involves the individually नियोजित and systematically monitored व्यवस्था of teaching procedures, adapted equipment and materials, accessible जमावट, and other interventions designed to सहायता learners साथ special needs achieve a higher level of personal self-sufficiency और success in स्कूल and community than होता be available if the student यहूद only दिए access to a typical कक्षा education.
आम खास needs include challenges with learning, संचार challenges, emotional और behavioral disorders, शारीरिक disabilities, and developmental disorders.
विद्यार्थी with these kinds of special needs हैं संभावित to benefit from additional educational सेवाएं ऐसे as अलग approaches to teaching, उपयोग of technology, a specifically adapted teaching क्षेत्रफल, or resource रूम.
बौद्धिक giftedness is a difference in learning और can भी benefit from specialized शिक्षण techniques or different शैक्षणिक programs, but the term `` special education '' is generally used to specifically indicate instruction of students जिनकी special needs reduce their क्षमता to learn independently or in an ordinary classroom, and gifted education is handled separately.
in most developed countries, educators are modifying शिक्षण विधि and environments so that the maximum क्रमांक of students are परोसा in general education environments.
Special शिक्षा in विकसित देशों is प्रायः regarded less as a `` place '' and अधिक as `` a दायरा of services, available in every school. ''
Integration can reduce सोशल stigmas और improve academic achievement for many students.
the विपरीत of खास education is सामान्य शिक्षा.
General education is the standard curriculum presented साथ standard teaching विधि and बगैर additional supports.
George सोरोस ( or ; ; ; born अगस्त 12, 1930, as Schwartz györgy ) is a Hungarian-American कारोबार magnate, investor, and philanthropist.
He is the chairman of Soros निधि प्रबन्धन.
Soros supports progressive-liberal कल्याणकारी.
He is ज्ञात as `` The Man जो broke the बैंको of England `` because of उसके in investment profits दौरान the 1992 Black बुधवार UK करेंसी संकट.
between 1979 and 2011, सोरोस gave दूर over $ 8 billion to human rights, public health, और शिक्षा causes.
He played a significant role in the शांतिपूर्ण transition इससे communism to capitalism in Hungary ( 1984–89 ) and provided one of यूरोपीय 's largest उच्चतर education endowments to Central European विश्वविद्यालयों in बुडापेस्ट.
सोरोस is also the अध्यक्ष of the खोलें समाज Institute.
An actor portraying Alexander Graham Bell बोलना into an early मॉडल टेलीफोन.
the invention of the telephone is the culmination of कार्य done by many individuals, the history of which involves a collection of claims and counterclaims.
The development of the आधुनिक electrical telephone involved an सरणी of lawsuits founded upon the patent claims of several individuals and numerous companies.
इस article कवर the early years इससे 1844 to 1898, from conception of the विचार of an इलेक्ट्रिक voice-transmission यंत्र, to failed कोशिशें to उपयोग `` make-and-break '' current, to successful experiments साथ electromagnetic telephones by Alexander Graham Bell and Thomas वाटसन, और finally to commercially successful telephones in the लेट 19th century.
A Master of ठीक Arts ( mfa, m.f.a. ) is a ग्रैजुएट degree typically requiring 2–3 सालो of postgraduate पढ़ाई beyond the bachelor 's उपाधि ( BFA ), हालांकि the term of पढ़ाई will vary by country or by विश्वविद्यालयों.
The mfa is a creative उपाधि प्रायः awarded as a टर्मिनल उपाधि in visual arts, creative लिखने, filmmaking, dance, or theatre and अन्य performing कला.
Coursework is primarily of an लागू or performing प्रकृति with the कार्यक्रम often culminating in a major work or performance.
Master of ठीक Arts programs have generally required a bachelor 's उपाधि prior to admission, लकिन many do नहीं require कि the undergraduate major be the same as the MFA field of study.
The सबसे important admissions आवश्यकता रै प्रायः महरूम a sample portfolio or a performance ऑडिशन.
The निपुण of ठीक कला differs from the निपुण of कला in that the MFA, while an अकादमिक कार्यक्रम, centers around अभ्यास in the particular field, whereas कार्यक्रम leading to the ma usually center on the scholarly, academic, or नाजुक study of the फ़ील्ड.
Additionally, in the संयुक्त राज्य, an mfa is recognized as a terminal degree लिये practitioners of Visual Art, Design, Dance, थिएटर, film/video, New मीडिया, and Creative लिखने - meaning that it is considered to be the उच्चतम उपाधि in its फ़ील्ड, and is प्रयुक्त as a minimum योग्यता to be समर्थ to apply to become a full-time Professor शिक्षण at the विश्वविद्यालयों level in ये disciplines.
There हैं exceptions to this मानक in the कला, notably in the मामला of music performance, where the MFA is not seen as a terminal degree in the context of the more मानकीकृत DMA उपाधि.
it is भी नाजुक to नोट that in the interest of extending the connection between रचनात्मक उत्पादन और continued academic research, कुछ विश्वविद्यालयों have स्थापित practice-based Ph.D programs in फ़ील्ड such as creative लिखने, visual कला, नई media, design and theater.
जबकि this रै था an प्रभाव in Creative Writing, and to a lesser extent in डिज़ाइन और नई मीडिया, the influx of graduates from practice-based PhD programs has not appreciably बदला the मानक for the MFA as the terminal degree in most Arts disciplines yet.
This is an ongoing contentious टॉपिक, and is the frequent subject of अकादमिक panels, especially at the सालाना College आर्ट Association conference.
The CAA 2008 दिशानिर्देश regarding the MFA strongly re-affirms that the PhD is not required as a टर्मिनल उपाधि in the visual arts.
The परमाणु bombings of the cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in जापानी were conducted by the United States दौरान the final stages of World युद्ध II in 1945.
The दो events are the only उपयोग of nuclear weapons in युद्ध to date.
Following a firebombing अभियान that destroyed अनेक Japanese शहरों, the Allies prepared लिये a costly invasion of Japan.
The war in यूरोपीय ended when नाजी Germany हस्ताक्षरित इसके instrument of आत्मसमर्पण on 8 may, लकिन the प्रशांत War continued.
Together with the United किंगडम and the Republic of China, the संयुक्त States पुकारा for a surrender of Japan in the Potsdam घोषणा on 26 July 1945, threatening Japan साथ `` prompt और utter विनाश ''.
the जापानी government ignored this ultimatum, and the United States deployed two nuclear हथियार developed by the Manhattan प्रोजेक्ट.
अमरीकी airmen dropped छोटी Boy on the नगर of हिरोशिमा on 6 August 1945, followed by Fat man over Nagasaki on 9 August.
Within the first दो to चार months of the bombings, the अधि effects killed 90,000–166,000 people in Hiroshima and 60,000–80,000 in नागासाकी, साथ roughly half of the deaths in each नगर occurring on the first दिन.
the Hiroshima prefecture स्वास्थ्य department estimated that, of the people who died on the day of the explosion, 60 % died from फ्लैश or flame burns, 30 % इससे falling मलबा और 10 % from अन्य causes.
दौरान the following months, large numbers died from the प्रभाव of burns, विकिरण sickness, और other चोटों, compounded by illness.
in a US estimate of the total immediate and short term कारण of death, 15–20 % died इससे विकिरण sickness, 20–30 % इससे burns, और 50–60 % from other चोटों, compounded by illness.
In both शहरों, most of the dead were नागरिकों, हालांकि हिरोशिमा had a sizeable garrison.
on 15 August, छह days बाद the bombing of Nagasaki, Japan घोषित its आत्मसमर्पण to the allies, हस्ताक्षर the Instrument of आत्मसमर्पण on 2 September, officially ending World War ii.
The bombings led, in part, to post-war Japan 's adopting तीन non-nuclear Principles, forbidding the स्वदेश from नाभिकीय armament.
The भूमिका of the bombings in Japan 's surrender and their नैतिक justification हैं स्टिल debated.
मोहनदास करमचंद Gandhi ( ; 2 अक्तूबर 1869 – 30 January 1948 ), commonly ज्ञात as Mahatma गांधी, थी the preeminent leader of भारतीय nationalism in british-ruled India.
Employing non-violent civil disobedience, Gandhi led India to independence and प्रेरित movements for non-violence, civil rights और freedom across the संसार.
The son of a senior government official, Gandhi थी born और उठाया in a Hindu Bania community in coastal Gujarat, and trained in विधि in London.
Gandhi became famous by fighting for the सिविल rights of मुस्लिम and Hindu इंडियंस in दक्षिण Africa, using new तकनीकों of non-violent civil disobedience that he developed.
Returning to इण्डिया in 1915, he set परिचय organising peasants to protest excessive land-taxes.
A lifelong opponent of `` communalism `` ( i.e. basing राजनीती on धर्म ) he पहुँचे out widely to सब religious groups.
he became a नेता of Muslims protesting the declining औकात of the खिलाफत.
Assuming leadership of the भारतीय नेशनल Congress in 1921, गांधी led nationwide अभियान लिये easing गरीबी, expanding women 's अधिकारों, building धार्मिक और जातीय amity, ending अस्पृश्यता, increasing economic self-reliance, और above सब लिये achieving Swaraj —the independence of India इससे British हुकूमत.
गांधी led Indians in protesting the national salt tax साथ the Dandi नमक कूच in 1930, और later in demanding the British to immediately छोड़ो India in 1942, during World War ii.
he was imprisoned for कि और लिये numerous अन्य राजनैतिक offenses over the years.
Gandhi sought to practice non-violence और truth in सब situations, and advocated कि others do the वही.
he देखी the गांवों as the core of the true India and promoted self-sufficiency ; he did not support the industrialization programs of his disciple Jawaharlal Nehru.
He lived modestly in a self-sufficient आवासीय जातियाँ और पहना the परंपरागत Indian dhoti और shawl, woven with धागे he had हाथ spun on a charkha.
उसके मुख्य political enemy in ब्रिटेन was Winston Churchill, who ridiculed him as a `` half-naked फकीर. ''
he थी a समर्पित vegetarian, और undertook long fasts as means of both self-purification और राजनैतिक mobilization.
in उसके last year, unhappy at the partition of India, गांधी worked to stop the carnage between Muslims, Hindus and Sikhs that raged in the किनारा area between India and Pakistan.
He थी assassinated on 30 January 1948 by Nathuram गोडसे जो विचार गांधी was too sympathetic to इण्डिया 's मुसलमान.
30 January is observed as Martyrs ' दिन in India.
The honorific Mahatma ( `` Great आत्मा '' ) थी लागू to उसे by 1914.
in India he was भी पुकारा Bapu ( `` पिता '' ).
He is known in India as the पिता of the स्वदेश ; his birthday, 2 अक्तूबर, is commemorated वहीँ as गांधी Jayanti, a नेशनल holiday, and world-wide as the अंतरराष्ट्रीय दिन of Non-Violence.
Gandhi 's philosophy थी not theoretical लकिन एक of व्यावहारिकतावाद, कि is, practicing his principles in the पल.
Asked to दे a संदेश to the people, he would respond, `` My life is my message. ''
जोन Crawford ( March 23, ca. 1904 – may 10, 1977 ), born Lucille Fay lesueur, was an American actress in film, टेलीविज़न और theatre.
starting as a dancer in traveling theatrical companies before debuting on Broadway, Crawford was हस्ताक्षरित to a motion चित्र अनुबंध by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in 1925.
Initially कुंठित by the size and quality of her parts, Crawford began a campaign of self-publicity and became nationally ज्ञात as a flapper by the end of the 1920s.
In the 1930s, क्रॉफर्ड 's कीर्ति rivaled, and later outlasted, mgm colleagues Norma Shearer and Greta garbo.
Crawford often played hardworking young women who ढूँढें रोमांस and financial कामयाबी.
These `` rags-to-riches '' कहानियां यहूद well received by Depression -era ऑडियंस and were popular साथ women.
Crawford became एक of Hollywood 's most prominent movie stars और one of the उच्चतम सशुल्क women in the संयुक्त राज्य, but उसके films began losing धन और by the समाप्त of the 1930s वो was labeled `` बक्सा office ज़हर ''.
After an absence of nearly दो सालो from the स्क्रीन, Crawford staged a वापसी by starring in मिल्ड्रेड पियर्स ( 1945 ), for जिससे वो won the अकादमी Award लिये Best अभिनेत्री.
In 1955, वो became involved साथ the Pepsi-Cola Company through her marriage to कम्पनी अध्यक्ष Alfred Steele.
After his death in 1959, Crawford was elected to fill उसके vacancy on the फलक of निर्देशकों but थी forcibly retired in 1973.
वो continued एक्टिंग in फिल्मी and television regularly through the 1960s, when her performances became कम ; after the रिलीज of the अंग्रेजों हॉरर फिल्मी trog in 1970, Crawford रिटायर्ड इससे the screen.
Following a public रूप in 1974, after which unflattering छायाचित्र were published, क्रॉफर्ड withdrew इससे पब्लिक life and became increasingly reclusive until उसके death in 1977.
Crawford शादीशुदा four times.
Her पहला three विवाह ended in divorce ; the last ended साथ the मौत of husband अल्फ्रेड स्टील.
वो अपनाया पाँच children, एक of whom was reclaimed by उसके birth mother.
क्रॉफर्ड 's relationships with her two older children, Christina and Christopher, यहूद acrimonious.
Crawford disinherited the दो और, बाद क्रॉफर्ड 's death, Christina wrote a `` tell-all '' संस्मरण, mommie dearest, in which वो alleged a lifelong पैटर्न of physical and emotional गाली perpetrated by Crawford.
She थी voted the tenth महानतम मादा star in the इतिहास of अमरीकी cinema by the अमरीकी फिल्मी Institute.
1910 Buick Tonneau without tonneau कवर
1903 घाट Model A rear-door Tonneau
1903 lanchester rear-door Tonneau
Tonneau cover ( or ) describes a मुश्किल or नरम cover used to protect unoccupied passenger सीटे in a convertible or roadster, or the कार्गो bed in a pickup truck.
Hard tonneau covers खोलें by a hinging or फोल्डिंग यांत्रिकी while नरम covers open by रोलिंग up.
The tonneau कवर is प्रयुक्त to conceal cargo.
When the कवर is pulled आउट, it keeps items आउट of the sun और provides अतिरिक्त security by keeping personal items आउट of sight, as खूब as shielding the driver इससे दृश्य.
Twitter is an ऑनलाइन social networking service और microblogging service कि enables its उपयोक्ता to send और read text-based messages of up to 140 characters, ज्ञात as `` tweets ''.
ट्विटर was created in March 2006 by Jack Dorsey and by July, the social networking site was launched.
The service rapidly gained विश्वव्यापी popularity, with over 500 लाख registered उपयोक्ता as of 2012, generating over 340 लाख tweets daily and हैंडलिंग over 1.6 अरब search प्रश्नों प्रति दिन.
Since इसके लॉन्च, Twitter रै become एक of the टेन most visited websites on the Internet, and has been वर्णित as `` the SMS of the अंतरजाल. ''
Unregistered users can read tweets, जबकि पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता can post tweets through the website इंटरफ़ेस, sms, or a दायरा of apps for mobile devices.
ट्विटर Inc. is based in San Francisco, साथ additional servers and offices in New यॉर्क City, Boston, और सैन अंतोनियो.
the Hangover is a 2009 American comedy film, co-produced and directed by Todd Phillips और written by jon Lucas and Scott मूर.
It is the first फिल्मी of The Hangover franchise.The फिल्मी सितारों Bradley Cooper, Ed Helms, Zach Galifianakis, Heather Graham, जस्टिन bartha, and जेफरी Tambor.
The Hangover tells the story of फिल Wenneck, stu Price और Alan गार्नर, जो सफर to लास Vegas लिये a स्नातक party to celebrate उनके dost Doug Billings ' impending marriage.
However, Phil, Stu and Alan have no मेमोरी of the पिछला रात्रि 's कार्यक्रम and must find डग before the विवाह can take place.
Lucas और Moore wrote the script after कार्यपालिका निर्माता Chris bender 's friend disappeared और था a विशाल bill after being भेजा to a strip क्लबों.
After लुकास and मूर sold it to the studio for $ 2 million, Philips और जेरेमी garelick rewrote the स्क्रिप्ट to शामिल a tiger as well as a subplot involving a baby and a पुलिस cruiser, और भी सहित boxer Mike टायसन.
फिल्मांकन took place in नेवाडा for 15 दिनों, and during फिल्मांकन, the तीन प्रमुख अभिनेताओं ( Cooper, helms और Galifianakis ) formed a friendship.
the hangover was released on June 5, 2009, becoming a critical and commercial success.
It became the tenth-highest-grossing फिल्मी of 2009, साथ a worldwide सकल of over US $ 467 लाख.
आलोचकों praised the फिल्मी 's comedic approach लकिन criticized it लिये इसके vulgarity.
the फिल्मी जीती the Golden Globe Award for बेहतरीन Motion चित्र – musical or Comedy, and received अनेक other accolades.
it is the tenth-highest-grossing film of 2009 in the world, as well as the दूसरी highest-grossing R-rated comedy कभी in the संयुक्त States, surpassing a रिकार्ड previously held by बेवर्ली Hills cop लिये almost 25 years और later being surpassed by Ted in 2012.
आउट of all r-rated films, it is the third highest-grossing ever in the u.S., पीछे तभी the Passion of the Christ और the Matrix Reloaded.
a sequel, The hangover Part II, थी released in 2011, and a third and final फिल्मी, The Hangover भाग III, is set for release in 2013.
Events involving meiosis, showing chromosomal crossover
Meiosis ( ) is a special प्रकार of कोशिका division जरुरी लिये यौन reproduction in eukaryotes.
The cells produced by meiosis हैं गैमीट or spores.
In अनेक जीवों, including all animals और land plants ( लकिन नहीं कुछ other groups such as fungi ), gametes are पुकारा शुक्राणु and egg कोशिकाएं.
whilst the प्रक्रम of meiosis bears a number of similarities साथ the 'life-cycle ' cell division process of mitosis, it differs in two important आदरs:
the chromosomes in meiosis undergo a recombination जिससे shuffles the genes producing a different genetic combination in प्रत्येक gamete, compared with the co-existence of प्रत्येक of the two separate pairs of each chromosome ( one received इससे each parent ) in प्रत्येक कोशिका जिससे परिणाम from mitosis.
the outcome of meiosis is potentially चार ( genetically unique ) haploid cells, compared with the two ( genetically identical ) diploid cells produced इससे mitosis.
Meiosis begins साथ एक diploid cell containing दो नक़ल of each chromosome —one from the organism 's mother and एक from its father.
the cell divides twice, potentially producing up to चार अगुणित cells containing one copy of each chromosome.
( `` potentially '' because in कुछ cases, such as the गठन of oocytes in स्तनधारियों, तभी one of the possible four अगुणित cells survives. )
in animals the अगुणित कोशिका resulting from meiosis is a male or मादा gamete.
Each of the resulting chromosomes in the gamete कोशिकाएं is a unique mixture of मातृ और paternal डीएनए, resulting in offspring that are genetically पृथक from either parent.
This देता rise to genetic diversity in sexually reproducing populations.
This genetic diversity can provide the विभिन्नता of शारीरिक और behavioural attributes ( phenotypes ) upon जिससे natural selection can act, but, as वर्णित below in खण्ड 6, उत्पत्ति and फलन of meiosis, the जेनेटिक diversity may be largely a by-product of the homologous recombination that is primarily employed for इसके डीएनए repair फलन during meiosis.
It is also noteworthy कि दौरान meiosis, specific जीनों हैं more highly transcribed, और ये हैं called the meiome, the term प्रयुक्त in कार्यात्मक जीनोमिक्स for the meiotic transcriptome.
Meiosis is a कुंजी विशेषता for सब sexually reproducing eukaryotes in जिससे homologous chromosome pairing, synapse and recombination occur.
in addition to strong meiotic stage-specific expression of mrna ( the meiome ), however, there are also pervasive translational controls ( e.g. selective usage of preformed mrna ), regulating the ultimate meiotic stage-specific protein अभिव्यक्ति of जीनों during meiosis.
Thus, दोनो the meiome and translational नियंत्रण determine the broad restructuring of meiotic cells needed to carry out meiosis.
Prior to the meiosis प्रक्रम the cell 's chromosomes are duplicated by a round of डीएनए replication, creating from the मातृ और पैतृक संस्करण of प्रत्येक chromosome ( homologs ) two सटीक copies, sister chromatids, संलग्न at the centromere प्रदेश.
In the beginning of meiosis the maternal and paternal homologs pair to each other.
Then they typically एक्सचेंज भाग by homologous recombination अग्रणी to crossovers of DNA between the maternal और paternal versions of the chromosome.
spindle मछली bind to the centromeres of each pair of homologs and arrange the pairs at the spindle equator.
तब the fibers खींचो the recombined homologs to opposite डंडे of the कोशिका.
As the chromosomes move away from the center the cell divides into two बेटी कोशिकाएं, each containing a haploid number of गुणसूत्रों composed of दो chromatids.
After the recombined maternal और paternal homologs have separated into the दो बेटी कोशिकाएं, a second round of कोशिका division occurs.
वहीँ meiosis ends as the दो सिस्टर chromatids बनाना up each homolog are separated और मूव into one of the चार resulting gamete कोशिकाएं.
Upon fertilization, for उदाहरण when a शुक्राणु enters an अंडा cell, दो gamete cells उत्पादित by meiosis फ्यूज.
the gamete from the mother and the gamete from the पिता each contribute one हाफ of the नियत of chromosomes that make up the नई offspring 's genome.
Meiosis uses many of the same mechanisms as समसूत्रण, a type of cell division used by eukaryotes जैसे plants और animals to विभाजित one कोशिका into दो identical बेटी कोशिकाएं.
In सब plants and in many protists meiosis results in the गठन of spores : अगुणित cells that can divide vegetatively without undergoing fertilization.
मुक्केबाज़ी ( pugilism, पुरस्कार लड़, the sweet विज्ञान or in Greek pygmachia ) is a martial आर्ट और कॉम्बैट sport in which दो लोगों engage in a contest of strength, गति, reflexes, endurance and will by फेंकना punches with gloved हैंड्स.
Amateur boxing is an ओलम्पिक और Commonwealth खेल and is a common fixture in most of the प्रमुख international खेल - it भी has its अपना World Championships.
Boxing is supervised by a रेफरी over a series of one- to three-minute intervals called rounds.
the परिणाम is decided when an opponent is deemed incapable to continue by a रेफरी, is disqualified लिये breaking a rule, resigns by throwing in a तौलिया, or is सुनाया the winner or loser based on the न्यायाधीशों ' scorecards at the end of the प्रतियोगिता.
The जनम hour of boxing as a खेल may be इसके स्वीकृति by the ancient यूनानियों as an ओलम्पिक खेल as जल्दी as 688 bc.
Boxing विकसित from 16th- और 18th-century prizefights, largely in Great ब्रिटेन, to the forerunner of modern मुक्केबाज़ी in the mid-19th century, again initially in Great ब्रिटेन and later in the United राज्य.
In 2004, ESPN ranked मुक्केबाज़ी as the most मुश्किल sport in the संसार.
अनुबंध or concord happens when a word परिवर्तन form depending on the अन्य words to जिससे it relates.
it is an उदाहरण of inflection, and usually involves making the मान of some grammatical श्रेणी ( ऐसे as लिंग or person ) `` सहमत '' between different शब्द or भाग of the वाक्य.
लिये example, in Standard English, one may कह I am or he is, but नहीं `` I is '' or `` he am ''.
This is because the व्याकरण of the language requires कि the verb और its subject सहमत in व्यक्ति.
The pronouns i and he are first and third व्यक्ति respectively, as are the verb फ़ॉर्म am and is.
the verb form must be चयनित so कि it has the same person as the विषय.
the agreement आधारित on overt grammatical श्रेणी as ऊपर is formal agreement, in contrast to notional agreement, which is based on meaning.
For instance, the phrase the United States is treated as singular लिये उद्देश्य of agreement, even हालांकि it is formally plural.
इस is a list of places below औसत समुद्र level कि are on land.
Places in tunnels, mines, basements, खोदा holes ( also साथ खोलें sky ), under जल, अंतर्गत ice, or existing temporarily as a परिणाम of ebbing of sea tide इत्यादि. are not included.
All आंकड़े are in meters below sea level:
Debbie macomber ( born October 22, 1948 in Yakima, Washington ) is a best-selling अमरीकी लेखक of over 150 रोमांस novels and समकालीन women 's fiction.
Over 140 million copies of her books are in छपाई throughout the world, and four have become made-for-tv-movies.
macomber was the inaugural winner of the fan-voted Quill Award for romance in 2005 and has महरूम awarded both a रोमांस Writers of अमेरिका RITA and a lifetime उपलब्धि पुरस्कार by the Romance लेखक of अमेरिका.
catonsville is a census-designated place ( CDP ) in Baltimore County, मेरीलैंड, United States.
The population was 41,567 at the 2010 census.
the जातियाँ lies to the west of Baltimore along the नगर 's किनारा.
Catonsville is the घर of the विश्वविद्यालयों of Maryland, बाल्टीमोर County ( umbc ), a पब्लिक research विश्वविद्यालयों with over 12,000 students.
a वकील, according to ब्लैक 's Law शब्दकोष, is `` a व्यक्ति learned in the law ; as an attorney, counsel or solicitor ; a person who is practicing विधि. ''
Law is the प्रणाली of rules of conduct स्थापित by the sovereign government of a समाज to सही wrongs, maintain the stability of political और सोशल प्राधिकार, and उद्धार justice.
working as a lawyer involves the व्यावहारिक application of अमूर्त विधिक theories and knowledge to solve specific individualized problems, or to advance the interests of those who retain ( i.e., hire ) वकील to perform विधिक सेवाएं.
The role of the lawyer varies significantly across विधिक jurisdictions, and so it can be treated यहाँ in only the सबसे general terms.
Vector विपणन is the domestic बिक्री arm of Cutco Corporation, an olean, New York based cutlery manufacturer.
The परिवार और Medical Leave अधिनियम of 1993 ( FMLA ) is a संयुक्त States federal विधि requiring covered employers to provide कर्मचारी job-protected और unpaid छोड़ for योग्य medical and family reasons.
Qualified medical and परिवार reasons include : निजी or परिवार बीमारी, family military छोड़, गर्भावस्था, adoption, or the फोस्टर care अवस्थिति of a child.
The fmla is administered by the मजदूरी and Hour प्रभाग of the United States विभाग of मजदूर.
The विधेयक थी a major भाग of President Bill Clinton 's agenda in उसके first term.
President Clinton हस्ताक्षरित the विधेयक into law on फ़रवरी 5, 1993 ( ; 29 U.S.C. sec. 2601 ; 29 CFR 825 ) and it took effect on August 5, 1993, छह months later.
The fmla was intended `` to balance the demands of the workplace साथ the needs of families. ''
The अधिनियम allows योग्य कर्मचारी to लो up to 12 कार्य weeks of unpaid छोड़ दौरान कोई 12-month काल to attend to the serious health कंडीशन of the employee, जनक, spouse or child, or लिये pregnancy or परवाह of a newborn child, or for अपनाना or फोस्टर care of a child.
In order to be eligible लिये FMLA छोड़, an कर्मचारी जरूर have महरूम at the business at least 12 महीने, and worked at तनिक 1,250 hours over the past 12 महीने, and work at a स्थान जहाँ the company employs 50 or अधिक कर्मचारी भीतर 75 miles.
the FMLA कवर both public- और private-sector कर्मचारी, but निश्चित categories of employees are excluded, सहित निर्वाचित officials और उनके personal स्टाफ members.
The Vietnam War ( ) थी a Cold War -era सैन्य conflict that occurred in Vietnam, Laos, and कंबोडिया from 1 नवम्बर 1955 to the fall of Saigon on 30 April 1975.
इस युद्ध followed the पहला Indochina War और was fought between North वियतनाम, समर्थित by its communist allies, और the सरकारी of South वियतनाम, supported by the United States and other anti-communist countries.
The Viet Cong ( also known as the नेशनल मुक्ति Front, or NLF ), a हलके armed दक्षिण Vietnamese communist common front directed by the North, largely लड़ा a छापामार war against anti-communist forces in the region.
The Vietnam लोगों 's Army ( उत्तर Vietnamese Army ) सगाई in a अधिक conventional war, at टाइम्स committing large इकाई into battle.
U.S. और South Vietnamese forces relied on air बड़प्पन and overwhelming firepower to conduct search और destroy operations, involving ground शक्तियां, तोपखाने, and airstrikes.
The U.S. सरकारी viewed involvement in the युद्ध as a रास्ता to prevent a कम्युनिस्ट takeover of South Vietnam as part of their wider strategy of containment.
The उत्तर Vietnamese सरकारी and viet Cong were लड़ to reunify Vietnam अंतर्गत communist rule.
They viewed the विरोध as a colonial युद्ध, लड़ा initially against फ़्रांस, backed by the U.S., और बाद against दक्षिण वियतनाम, which it regarded as a U.S. puppet state.
American military advisors arrived in कया was then फ्रेंच Indochina शुरूआत in 1950.
U.S. भागीदारी escalated in the जल्दी 1960s, साथ troop स्तर tripling in 1961 and tripling again in 1962.
U.S. combat units were deployed beginning in 1965.
Operations spanned अंतरराष्ट्रीय borders, with लाओस and Cambodia heavily bombed.
American involvement in the युद्ध peaked in 1968, at the समय of the Tet अप्रिय.
After this, U.S. ground forces यहूद gradually withdrawn as part of a policy ज्ञात as vietnamization.
despite the पेरिस Peace Accords, signed by सब parties in January 1973, fighting जारी.
u.S. सैन्य involvement ended on 15 August 1973 as a परिणाम of the case–church Amendment passed by the U.S. Congress.
the capture of Saigon by the वियतनाम लोगों 's Army in April 1975 marked the end of the war, and North and South वियतनाम were reunified the following साल.
The युद्ध exacted a huge human cost in terms of fatalities ( see Vietnam War casualties ).
Estimates of the क्रमांक of वियतनामी soldiers and नागरिकों killed vary from 800,000 to 3.1 million.
Some 200,000–300,000 Cambodians, 20,000–200,000 laotians, और 58,220 u.S. service members also died in the विरोध.
क्लीवलैंड ज्वालामुखी in the Aleutian Islands of अलास्का photographed from the International Space Station, May 2006.
Ash plumes पहुँचे a height of 19 km during the climactic फटना at Mount Pinatubo, Philippines in 1991.
A volcano is an खोलने, or rupture, in a ग्रह 's सतह or crust, जिससे allows hot magma, volcanic ash and गैसों to escape from the मैग्मा कक्ष below the सतह.
Volcanoes are generally found जहाँ tectonic प्लेटों are diverging or converging.
a mid-oceanic ridge, for उदाहरण the mid-atlantic लकीरें, has examples of ज्वालामुखी caused by अपसारी tectonic प्लेटों pulling apart ; the Pacific रिंग of आग has उदाहरण of volcanoes caused by अभिसारी tectonic plates coming together.
by contrast, ज्वालामुखी are प्रायः नहीं created जहाँ two tectonic प्लेटों slide past one another.
ज्वालामुखी can भी form where there is stretching and thinning of the Earth 's crust in the इंटीरियर्स of plates, e.g., in the East African दरार, the कुएं Gray-Clearwater volcanic field और the रिओ Grande Rift in उत्तर अमेरिका.
इस type of volcanism जलप्रपात under the umbrella of `` Plate परिकल्पना '' volcanism.
volcanism away from plate boundaries रै also महरूम explained as mantle plumes.
ये so-called `` हॉटस्पॉट ``, for example हवाई, हैं postulated to arise from upwelling diapirs with मैग्मा from the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km deep in the Earth.
erupting ज्वालामुखी can pose अनेक hazards, नहीं only in the immediate vicinity of the eruption.
volcanic ash can be a threat to aircraft, in particular those with jet इंजन जहाँ राख अणु can be melted by the ऊँची operating तापमान.
Large eruptions can affect temperature as राख और droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the sun और cool the धरती 's lower माहौल or क्षोभमण्डल ; however, they also absorb heat radiated up from the Earth, thereby warming the stratosphere.
historically, so-called volcanic winters have caused catastrophic famines.
A गहन pothole on नई York नगर 's Second Avenue
a pothole ( sometimes पुकारा a केतली and known in parts of the Western संयुक्त राज्य as a chuckhole ) is a type of disruption in the सतह of a roadway जहाँ a portion of the सड़क सामग्री रै टूटा away, leaving a hole.
renal कोशिका carcinoma ( RCC, also known as hypernephroma ) is a गुर्दा cancer that originates in the lining of the proximal convoluted tubule, the very छोटी tubes in the kidney that transport gf ( glomerular filtrate ) from the glomerulus to the descending limb of the nephron.
rcc is the सबसे common प्रकार of गुर्दा कर्कट in adults, जिम्मेदार लिये approximately 80 % of मामले.
It is also known to be the most lethal of सब the genitourinary tumors.
Initial उपचार is सबसे commonly a कट्टरपंथी or partial nephrectomy और remains the mainstay of curative उपचार.
Where the tumor is confined to the renal parenchyma, the 5-year survival रेट is 60-70 %, but इस is lowered considerably जहाँ metastases have स्प्रेड.
It is अपेक्षाकृत resistant to विकिरण चिकित्सा और chemotherapy, हालांकि कुछ मामले respond to immunotherapy.
targeted cancer therapies ऐसे as sunitinib, temsirolimus, bevacizumab, interferon-alpha, और sorafenib have improved the outlook लिये RCC.
Estée lauder Companies, inc. is a manufacturer और marketer of प्रतिष्ठा skincare, makeup, fragrance और hair care products.
the company रै its headquarters in midtown मैनहटन, New यॉर्क City.
The peritoneum ( ) is the serous झिल्ली कि फ़ॉर्म the lining of the abdominal गुहा or the coelom —it covers सबसे of the intra-abdominal ( or coelomic ) organs—in amniotes and कुछ invertebrates ( annelids, लिये instance ).
It is composed of a परत of mesothelium supported by a पतला layer of connective tissue.
The peritoneum both supports the abdominal अंगों और serves as a conduit for their blood और लसीका बरतन और nerves.
The abdominal गुहा ( the space bounded by the vertebrae, abdominal muscles, diaphragm and श्रोणि floor ) should नहीं be confused with the intraperitoneal स्पेस ( स्तिथ भीतर the abdominal cavity, लकिन wrapped in peritoneum ).
The structures within the intraperitoneal space हैं called `` intraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the पेट ), the structures in the abdominal cavity that are located पीछे the intraperitoneal space हैं called `` retroperitoneal `` ( e.g. the kidneys ), और those structures नीचे the intraperitoneal स्पेस हैं पुकारा `` subperitoneal '' or `` infraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the bladder ).
आधुनिक 2.5 '' SSD used in consumer laptops और desktop computers.
DDR SDRAM आधारित ssd.
Max और.
पीसीआई attached IO त्वरक ssd
PCI-E, dram, और नन्द आधारित SSD.
It उपयोग an external power supply to make the dram non-volatile.
A solid-state ड्राइव ( ssd ) ( भी known as a solid-state डिस्क or electronic disk, हालांकि it contains no actual `` disk '' of कोई kind ) is a आंकड़ा भंडार device using integrated सर्किट सभाओं as memory to store data persistently.
SSD प्रौद्योगिकी uses इलेक्ट्रॉनिक interfaces संगत with traditional block input/output ( I/O ) hard disk drives.
SSDs have no moving mechanical components, जिससे distinguish उन्हें from traditional electromechanical चुम्बकीय disks ऐसे as hard disk ड्राइव ( HDDs ) or floppy disks, which contain spinning disks and movable read/write heads.
compared साथ electromechanical disks, SSDs हैं typically less susceptible to physical shock, much quieter, have lower access time, and कम latency.
However, while the price of SSDs has continued to decline in 2012, SSDs हैं स्टिल about 7 to 8 times more महंगी प्रति unit of storage than hdds.
Many SSDs use I/O अंतरफलक विकसित लिये hard disk drives, thus permitting simple replacement in आम applications.
, most ssds use nand-based फ्लैश memory, जिससे retains data without शक्ति.
For applications requiring fast access, but नहीं necessarily data persistence after शक्ति loss, ssds may be constructed इससे random-access मेमोरी ( RAM ).
ऐसे devices may employ पृथक power sources, such as बैटरी, to maintain data after power loss.
Hybrid drives or solid राज्य संकर ड्राइव ( SSHD ) combine the सुविधाएँ of SSDs and hdds in the same unit, containing a विशाल मुश्किल डिस्क drive और an SSD संचय to improve प्रदर्शन of अक्सर accessed आंकड़ा.
These devices may प्रस्ताव near-SSD प्रदर्शन for अनेक applications.
सामन roe ( left ) and sturgeon caviar ( right ) served साथ माँ of pearl caviar spoons to avoid tainting the taste of the caviar.
ossetra caviar, सामन creme fraiche, potato shallot croquette, basil आयल, egg whites and yolks
Caviar, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization, is a product बना इससे salt-cured fish-eggs of the Acipenseridae परिवार.
the roe can be `` भैस '' ( non-pasteurized ) or pasteurized, साथ pasteurization reducing its culinary और economic value.
traditionally the term caviar refers only to roe from wild sturgeon in the Caspian और Black Seas ( Beluga, Ossetra और Sevruga caviars ).
Depending on the country, caviar may also be used to describe the roe of अन्य मछली ऐसे as सामन, steelhead, trout, lumpfish, whitefish, and other species of sturgeon.
caviar is considered a luxury delicacy and is eaten as a garnish or a spread.
in 2012, caviar sold for $ 2,500 प्रति pound, or $ 3,000 to $ 5,500 per kilo.
the SEC संजाल is a television अनुप्रयोग network featuring live broadcasts of college football and बास्केट events इससे the Southeastern Conference.
It is स्वामित्व and operated by ईएसपीएन प्लस and is दिखाया in more than 50 percent of households in the United States, mostly Southeastern United States markets.
The सेक Network typically airs in the नून पूर्वी slot that थी former घर to the Raycom Sports SEC खेल of the week.
Games are दिखाया locally on ब्रॉडकास्ट stations, regional खेल networks, as well as on ईएसपीएन GamePlan, ईएसपीएन पूरा अदालत, and ESPN3.com.
the सेक Network is भी उपलब्धियाँ in कनाडा via Atlanta 's WPCH-TV.
the SEC संजाल uses the वही on-screen ग्राफिक्स फिलहाल प्रयुक्त by ईएसपीएन on ABC, a version of ESPN 's ग्राफिक्स package.
सेक Network 's फ़ुटबॉल programming स्टिल uses a title सुरक्षित क्षेत्रफल क्युकी most of its affiliates do नहीं Letterbox their मानक Definition feeds, while ESPN 's television संजाल have allowed their graphics to लापरवाही the शीर्षक सुरक्षित, लकिन letterbox लिये SD दर्शक.
Starting with the SEC 2012 Basketball season, SEC Network 's ग्राफिक्स have been परिवर्तित to a 16:9 widescreen-only format.
This is also होने used लिये the 2013 बास्केट ऋतु, but had still adapted the former 4:3-safe ग्राफिक्स format for the 2012 SEC football season.
the 1990s, सुनाया and also known as `` the nineteen-nineties '' or abbreviated as `` the nineties '' or `` the '90s '', was a decade कि began on January 1, 1990, और ended on December 31, 1999.
it थी the 10th और पिछला दशक of the 20th century and the 100th और पिछला दशक of the 2nd millennium.
The decade is best known for the end of the Cold War at the beginning of the decade और the expansion and व्यावसायीकरण of the Internet during the second half of the decade.
In much of the West the 1990s is remembered as a काल of unprecedented peace और समृद्धि, though अनेक parts of the so-called Third World faced विभिन्न problems सहित नरसंहार, AIDS and new or continuing जातीय tensions and civil युद्धों.
Culturally बोलना the decade थी characterized by the rise of multiculturalism and alternative media.
Movements such as grunge, the रेव scene and हिप hop spread around the संसार to young people during the decade, aided by then-new technology ऐसे as केबल television और the Internet.
a संयोजन of कारकों, सहित the द्रव्यमान mobilization of capital बाज़ार through neoliberalism, the beginning of the widespread अप्रसार of new media ऐसे as the Internet, and the dissolution of the Soviet Union led to a realignment और reconsolidation of economic और political power आरपार the world, and within countries.
आय असमानता among देशों in the संसार rose sharply between the 1980s और the mid-1990s, पहले levelling off and तब गिरना after 2000.
नई जातीय विरोध उभरा in Africa, the Balkans and the काकेशस, the former दो which led to the Rwandan genocide and बोस्नियाई genocide, respectively.
The United राज्य began its current military occupation of the Middle East during the गर्मियाँ of 1990 with Desert Shield after it cut off a विशाल portion of the world 's petroleum supply.
Signs of any resolution of tensions between Israel और the Arab संसार remained elusive, though the आयरिश परेशानियों आए to a standstill in 1998 with the शुभ शुक्रवार अनुबंध after 30 years of violence.
the धूसर wolf or grey wolf ( Canis lupus ) is a species of canid native to the wilderness और remote क्षेत्रों of North America, Eurasia, और उत्तर अफ़्रीकी.
It is the largest सदस्य of इसके family, with males averaging, और महिलाओं.
It is similar in सामान्य रूप और proportions to a German shepherd, or sled dog, but has a larger head, narrower chest, longer टाँगे, straighter tail and बडे paws.
इसके winter fur is long और bushy, and predominantly a mottled gray in colour, although nearly pure white, रेड, or brown to black also occur.
Within the genus Canis, the gray wolf represents a अधिक specialised और progressive form than इसके छोटी cousins ( the कायोटी और सुनहरी jackal ), as demonstrated by its morphological adaptations to शिकार विशाल prey, its more gregarious nature and its highly उन्नत expressive behavior.
It is a सोशल animal, यात्राएं in नाभिकीय परिवारों consisting of a पन्द्रहवें pair, accompanied by the जोड़ी 's adult offspring.
the gray भेड़िया is typically an apex परभक्षी throughout its range, with तभी humans and tigers पोज़ a गंभीर threat to it.
it feeds primarily on large ungulates, though it also eats smaller पशु, livestock, carrion, and garbage.
The gray wolf is एक of the world 's सबसे well शोधकार्य पशु, साथ संभवतः more किताबे लिखा about it than any other वन्यजीव प्रजाति.
it has a long history of संघ साथ इंसानो, having महरूम despised and hunted in most agricultural communities due to इसके attacks on livestock, जबकि conversely being respected by कुछ Native American tribes.
It is the sole पूर्वज of the dog, जिससे was first domesticated in the Middle ईस्ट.
हालांकि the fear of wolves is prevalent in अनेक human societies, the majority of अंकित attacks on people have been attributed to पशु suffering from rabies.
Non-rabid wolves have attacked और मारे people, mainly children, लकिन this is असामान्य, as भेड़ियों are relatively few, live दूर from लोगों, और have been सिखाया to भय humans by hunters और गड़रिये.
शिकार and trapping has reduced the प्रजाति ' range to, though its still अपेक्षाकृत widespread range and stable population अर्थात् that the प्रजाति is not threatened at a global level, and is therefore classified by the आईयूसीएन as Least Concern.
The रोमन साम्राज्य ( ) थी the post- Republican काल of the ancient रोमन civilization, characterised by an autocratic form of government and विशाल territorial holdings around the Mediterranean in यूरोपीय, अफ़्रीकी, and Asia.
The 500-year-old Roman Republic, जिससे preceded it, had been destabilized through a श्रेणी of civil युद्धों.
अनेक कार्यक्रम marked the transition from Republic to साम्राज्य, including Julius Caesar 's appointment as perpetual तानाशाह ( 44 BC ) ; the Battle of Actium ( 31 bc ) ; and the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the रोमन Senate ( 27 bc ).
the पहला two centuries of the साम्राज्य यहूद a period of unprecedented स्थिरता and समृद्धि ज्ञात as the Pax romana ( `` रोमन सलाम '' ).
It reached its महानतम expanse during the शासनकाल of त्राजान ( 98–117 AD ).
in the 3rd सदी, the साम्राज्य underwent a crisis कि threatened इसके अस्तित्व, but was reunified and stabilized under the emperors Aurelian and Diocletian.
ईसाइयों rose to शक्ति in the 4th सदी, during जिससे time a प्रणाली of डुअल rule was विकसित in the Latin वेस्ट and Greek East.
After the collapse of सेंट्रल government in the West in the 5th century, the पूर्वी हाफ continued as what would बाद be ज्ञात as the Byzantine Empire.
Because of the Empire 's vast extent and long सहनशीलता, the संस्थानों और culture of Rome था a profound and lasting influence on the development of भाषा, religion, architecture, philosophy, विधि, and फ़ॉर्म of सरकारी in the territory it governed, particularly यूरोपीय, and by means of European expansionism throughout the modern world.
शिक्षा in the United States is mainly provided by the पब्लिक sector, साथ control and funding coming from तीन levels : लोकल, state, और federal, in कि order.
चाइल्ड education is अनिवार्य, and there are भी a विशाल number and wide किस्में of उच्चतर education संस्थानों throughout the country that एक can choose to attend, both publicly और privately administered.
Public education is universally available.
School curricula, funding, शिक्षण, नियुक्ति, और अन्य नीतियों are set through locally निर्वाचित school फलक साथ jurisdiction over स्कूल जिले साथ many directives इससे state legislatures.
स्कूल जिले हैं प्रायः पृथक इससे other लोकल jurisdictions, with independent officials और budgets.
Educational मानकों and standardized testing decisions हैं प्रायः बना by state governments.
The ages लिये अनिवार्य education vary by राज्य.
It begins from आयु five to eight and ends इससे आयु fourteen to अठारह.
Compulsory education आवश्यकताएँ can generally be satisfied by educating children in पब्लिक schools, state-certified private schools, or an approved home school कार्यक्रम.
In most public and निजी schools, शिक्षा is विभाजित into three स्तर : elementary स्कूल, middle school ( sometimes called junior high स्कूल ), और ऊँची school ( sometimes referred to as secondary शिक्षा ).
In लगभग सब स्कूलों at ये levels, children are divided by आयु groups into ग्रेड, ranging इससे kindergarten ( followed by पहला grade ) लिये the youngest children in elementary school, up to बारहवीं grade, the फाइनल साल of ऊँची school.
the exact age range of students in these ग्रेड levels varies थोड़ा इससे area to क्षेत्रफल.
post-secondary education, बेहतर ज्ञात as `` college `` in the संयुक्त States, is generally governed separately इससे the elementary and high स्कूल प्रणाली, और is वर्णित in a पृथक section नीचे.
Government supported, free पब्लिक schools for all प्रारंभ being स्थापित after the revolution, and expanded in the 19th century, as the परिणाम of प्रयत्न of मेन जैसे Horace Mann and बुकर T. Washington.
By 1870, all राज्य था फ़्री elementary स्कूलों, albeit तभी in urban centers.
as the 20th century drew nearer, राज्य started passing कानून to मेक schooling compulsory, और by 1910, 72 प्रतिशत of children attended school.
निजी स्कूलों जारी to स्प्रेड during this time, as खूब as colleges and—in the rural centers— land grant colleges.
The साल of 1910 also देखी the first सच्चा high schools.
During the बाकी of the 20th सदी, शैक्षणिक प्रयत्न केन्द्रित on reducing the inequality of the schooling system.
The लैंडमार्क परम् अदालत case भूरा v. Board of शिक्षा made the desegregation of elementary and high स्कूलों a नेशनल प्रधानता, जबकि the Pell Grant कार्यक्रम helped ग़रीब minorities लाभ access to college.
खास शिक्षा थी made into संघीय law in 1975.
the elementary and द्वितीयक Education अधिनियम of 1965 made मानकीकृत testing a requirement, and in 1983, a commission was established to evaluate उनके परिणाम and propose a course of कार्रवाई.
the resulting No चाइल्ड बाएँ पीछे Act of 2001 was विवादास्पद and इसके goals proved to be unrealistic.
a आयोग स्थापित in 2006 evaluated higher education, लकिन its recommendations have yet to be fully implemented.
पॉल ब्रैग ( February 6, 1895 – दिसम्बर 7, 1976 ), nutritionist, थी a पायोनियर in america’s तंदुरुस्ती movement.
Health बिता प्रति capita, in $ us PPP-adjusted, साथ the us and Canada compared amongst अन्य first संसार nations.
Comparison of the स्वास्थ्य care प्रणालियों in Canada and the United राज्य हैं often made by government, public स्वास्थ्य and पब्लिक policy विश्लेषकों.
the दो देशों had similar स्वास्थ्य परवाह systems before कनाडा reformed its system in the 1960s और 1970s.
The United States खर्च much अधिक money on स्वास्थ्य care than कनाडा, on दोनो a per-capita basis and as a percentage of GDP.
in 2006, per-capita spending for health परवाह in Canada was US $ 3,678 ; in the U.S., US $ 6,714.
the U.S. खर्च 15.3 % of GDP on स्वास्थ्य परवाह in that साल ; कनाडा spent 10.0 %.
in 2006, 70 % of स्वास्थ्य care spending in कनाडा थी financed by government, versus 46 % in the United राज्य.
कुल सरकारी spending per capita in the u.S. on health care थी 23 % उच्चतर than Canadian government spending, and u.S. सरकारी expenditure on health care थी बस अंतर्गत 83 % of total Canadian बिता ( public और private ) though ये statistics do n't लो into account population differences.
अध्ययन have come to different conclusions परिचय the result of this disparity in बिता.
a 2007 review of सब अध्ययन comparing health outcomes in Canada and the us in a कनाडाई peer-reviewed medical journal found कि `` health outcomes may be superior in patients cared लिये in Canada बनाम the संयुक्त States, but differences हैं not सतत. ''
जीवन प्रत्याशा is longer in कनाडा, और its infant मृत्यु rate is lower than कि of the U.S., लकिन there is बहस परिचय the underlying causes of these मतभेद.
One commonly cited comparison, the 2000 World स्वास्थ्य संगठन 's ratings of `` overall स्वास्थ्य service performance '', जिससे प्रयुक्त a `` composite माप of achievement in the level of health, the वितरण of health, the level of responsiveness और fairness of financial योगदान '', क्रमित कनाडा 30th और the US 37th among 191 member nations.
This study रेटेड the us `` responsiveness '', or विशेषता of service for individuals receiving उपचार, as 1st, compared with 7th लिये कनाडा.
While the average life प्रत्याशा for Canadians was 80.34 years compared with 78.6 years for निवासियों of the us, बस comparing the जीवन expectancy of two groups with different racial makeup और different मोटापा rates is संभावित not an effective रास्ता of determining जिससे healthcare system is श्रेष्ठ.
the जो 's study methods यहूद criticized by कुछ analyses.
हालांकि वहीँ is a माप of consensus कि life-expectancy and infant mortality mark the सबसे reliable ways to compare nation-wide health परवाह, assuming the population makeup is समान, a recent रपट by the Congressional शोध Service carefully summarizes कुछ हाल आंकड़ा and टीप the `` मुश्किल शोध issues '' facing international comparisons.
the sound सोर्स has अभी broken through the sound speed अवरोध, और is traveling at 1.4 times the गति of ध्वनि, ( Mach 1.4 ).
Since the source is चलती faster ( साथ a गति ) than the ध्वनि waves it creates, it actually लीड the advancing wavefront.
The ध्वनि source होगा pass by a stationary observer ( with a speed ) before the observer actually hears the ध्वनि it creates.
as a परिणाम, an observer in सामने of the source होगा detect
and an निरीक्षक behind the source.
A sonic boom produced by an aircraft चलती at M=2.92, गणना from the cone angle of 20 डिग्री.
An निरीक्षक hears the boom जब the shock wave, on the edges of the cone, crosses his or उसके location.
mach कोन angle
A सोनिक boom is the ध्वनि associated साथ the शॉक waves निर्मित by an ऑब्जेक्ट traveling through the air faster than the गति of sound.
सोनिक booms generate विशाल amounts of sound energy, sounding much like an विस्फोट.
The crack of a सुपरसोनिक bullet passing ओवरहेड is an example of a sonic बूम in miniature.
the Tonight दिखाएँ with jay लीनो is an American late-night talk show hosted by jay Leno कि initially aired from may 25, 1992 to may 29, 2009, and resumed production on March 1, 2010.
The चौथी अवतार of the tonight Show franchise made its debut on May 25, 1992, तीन दिनों following जॉनी Carson 's retirement as मेजबान of the program.
the program originates from NBC Studios in Burbank, California, और is broadcast सोमवार through Friday at 11:35 PM in the पूर्वी and प्रशांत time zones ( 10:35 pm Central / Mountain समय ).
नापसंद Carson or उसके predecessor Jack Paar, Leno only एकबार utilized a अतिथि मेजबान, preferring to host the series by himself.
on अप्रैल 26, 1999, the दिखाएँ began broadcasting in 1080i HDTV, बनने the पहला American nightly talk show to be शॉट in high definition.
The दिखाएँ is shot in 16:9 पहलू अनुपात.
the series, जिससे followed the same मौलिक format as कि of उसके predecessors ( an खोलने monologue followed by comedy दिनचर्या, साक्षात्कार and performances ), भागा until may 29, 2009, बाद which Leno थी succeeded by Conan O'Brien.
एनबीसी हस्ताक्षरित लीनो to a new सौदे लिये a nightly talk show in the 10:00 pm ET timeslot.
The primetime series, titled The jay Leno दिखाएँ, debuted on September 14, 2009, following a समान स्वरूप to the Leno incarnation of Tonight.
neither o'brien 's संस्करण of the program, which premiered June 1, 2009, nor The Jay Leno दिखाएँ generated the ratings कि NBC had अपेक्षित.
The network decided to मूव a condensed 30-minute संस्करण of लीनो 's दिखाएँ to o'brien 's time slot, and O'Brien 's Tonight Show a half-hour बाद.
This निर्णय met साथ विपक्ष from O'Brien, whose stint on The Tonight Show ended जनवरी 22, 2010, after which he began his अपना बात दिखाएँ on tbs.
the Tonight Show with Jay Leno then began its second और current अवतार, the sixth of the franchise, on March 1, 2010.
rfid chip अगला to a grain of rice.
इस chip contains a radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक field coil that modulates an external magnetic field to transfer a coded identification number जब queried by a रीडर device.
This छोटी प्रकार is incorporated in consumer उत्पाद, and implanted in pets, लिये पहचान purposes.
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is the बेतार non-contact उपयोग of radio-frequency electromagnetic fields to ट्रांसफ़र data, लिये the purposes of automatically identifying and ट्रैकिंग tags संलग्न to वस्तुएँ.
The tags contain electronically stored information.
कुछ टैग are powered and read at short ranges ( a few meters ) via चुम्बकीय fields ( electromagnetic induction ).
Others use a लोकल शक्ति source such as a बैटरी, or else have no बैटरी but collect energy from the interrogating EM field, and then act as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or uhf रेडियो waves ( i.e., electromagnetic radiation at high बारंबारता ).
Battery संचालित tags may operate at hundreds of meters.
Unlike a बार code, the tag does नहीं necessarily need to be within लकीर of sight of the reader, and may be अंतःस्थापित in the tracked ऑब्जेक्ट.
RFID tags हैं used in many उद्योग.
An RFID tag संलग्न to an automobile during production can be प्रयुक्त to track इसके progress through the assembly लकीर.
Pharmaceuticals can be tracked through warehouses.
पशुधन and पालतु may have tags injected, allowing positive identification of the animal.
चूंकि RFID टैग can be attached to कपडे, possessions, or even implanted within लोगों, the सम्भावना of पढना personally-linked सूचना without consent रै raised privacy concerns.
Id, ego और super-ego are the three भाग of the मानसिक apparatus defined in Sigmund फ्रायड 's structural model of the psyche ; they are the तीन theoretical constructs in terms of जिनकी activity and बातचीत mental जीवन is described.
According to इस model of the psyche, the id is the set of uncoordinated instinctual trends ; the super-ego plays the critical and moralizing भूमिका ; and the अहंकार is the व्यवस्थित, realistic part that mediates between the इच्छाओं of the id और the super-ego.
the super-ego can रोकें you from doing certain बाते कि अपना id may want you to do.
भी though the model is structural and makes reference to an apparatus, the id, अहंकार and super-ego are functions of the mind rather than parts of the दिमाग and do not correspond one-to-one with वास्तविक दैहिक structures of the kind dealt with by neuroscience.
the concepts themselves arose at a लेट stage in the विकास of Freud 's thought : the `` संरचनात्मक मॉडल '' ( which succeeded उसके `` आर्थिक मॉडल '' and `` topographical model '' ) was first discussed in उसके 1920 निबन्ध `` Beyond the ख़ुशी Principle `` और थी formalized और elaborated upon three सालो बाद in his `` the अहंकार and the id ``.
Freud 's proposal थी influenced by the ambiguity of the term `` unconscious `` and its many conflicting uses.
Air Force rotc emblem
the Air फ़ोर्स आरक्षित अधिकारी Training Corps ( AFROTC ) is एक of the तीन primary commissioning sources for अधिकारियों in the संयुक्त राज्य एयर Force, the other दो होने the संयुक्त राज्य एयर Force अकादमी ( usafa ) and Air फ़ोर्स Officer Training स्कूल ( ots ).
a अधीनस्थ command of the Air विश्वविद्यालयों भीतर the Air Education और Training कमांड ( AETC ), AFROTC is aligned अंतर्गत the Jeanne M. Holm बीच लिये Officer Accessions and Citizen विकास at मैक्सवेल AFB, अलबामा.
The Holm Center, formerly known as the Air Force Officer Accession और Training Schools ( afoats ), retains direct जिम्मेदारी for both AFROTC and OTS.
AFROTC is the largest and oldest source of commissioned officers for the U.S. एयर फ़ोर्स.
afrotc 's stated मिशन is to उपज quality leaders for the u.S. Air Force.
afrotc units are स्तिथ on 144 college और university campuses साथ 984 अतिरिक्त institutions of उच्चतर learning participating in cross-town agreements that allow उनके students to attend afrotc वर्ग at a nearby `` host '' college or विश्वविद्यालयों.
According to AFOATS HQ, in 2006, AFROTC commissioned 2,083 USAF दूसरी Lieutenants, साथ afrotc enrollment ranging from 23,605 in 1985 to 10,231 in 1993, और around 13,000 enrolled today.
AFROTC units at colleges and विश्वविद्यालयों are called `` detachments, '' and हैं typically headed by an active duty यूएसएएफ अधिकारी in the रैंक of colonel or लेफ्टिनेंट colonel जो functions as दोनो the detachment कमांडर for USAF purposes and with the nominal title of Professor of Aerospace Studies ( pas ) भीतर the institution 's academic community.
Most कॉलेजों and universities will designate the AFROTC detachment as the विभाग of Aerospace Studies.
The PAS is assisted by three to चार Assistant Professors of Aerospace अध्ययन ( APAS ), all क्रियाशील duty USAF officers in the ranks of प्रमुख or कप्तान.
तीन USAF non-commissioned अधिकारियों और one senior non-commissioned officer will typically provide military administrative support and are often augmented by एक to two civilian स्टाफ support employees of the academic संस्था.
Within AFROTC detachments, the students ( referred to as `` cadets '' ) are organized into wings, groups, squadrons, और flights, mirroring the USAF कार्यात्मक wing structure.
The AFROTC detachment 's cadet wing or cadet समूह is separated into two विभाजन : the General सैन्य Course ( जीएमसी ) consisting of the first दो सालो of प्रशिक्षण, and the Professional Officer Course ( POC ) consisting of the last two years of प्रशिक्षण.
the AFROTC program is also divided into दो प्रशिक्षण कृत्यों : the Academic कक्षा कार्यक्रम ( Aerospace Studies वर्ग ) and Cadet क्रियाएँ ( i.e., Leadership Laboratory, Physical Training, और other प्रशिक्षण ).
Paper density ( also known as basis weight and grammage ) is a term प्रयुक्त in the गूदा and paper उद्योग and भी for कपड़ा industry to denote a measure of द्रव्यमान of the उत्पाद per unit of क्षेत्रफल लिये a type of fabric, पेपर or paperboard.
the पद `` density '' is नहीं प्रयुक्त in इसके traditional भाव of द्रव्यमान प्रति ईकाई volume.
`` Paper density '', rather, is a माप of the क्षेत्रफल density.
Paper products that let little or no light pass through ( e.g. poster board ) are माना dense or heavy.
Paper उत्पाद कि allow कुछ लाइट to pass through ( e.g. tissue paper ) हैं considered lightweight.
In the गूदा and paper उद्योग, it is common to नियत a commercial paper machine to produce paper to a निशाना paper density.
Paper density can also be प्रयुक्त to distinguish paper इससे paperboard as the latter usually has a grammage वृहद than 134 g/m2.
Two ways of expressing paper घनत्व are commonly उपयोगd:
Expressed in grams प्रति वर्गाकार meter ( g/m2 ), paper density is also known as grammage.
This is the measure used in सबसे भाग of the world.
Expressed in terms of the द्रव्यमान ( expressed as वज़न ) प्रति number of चादरें, it is ज्ञात as basis weight.
The सम्मेलन used in the United States and a few अन्य countries using us paper sizes is pounds of a ream of 500 ( or in some cases 1000 ) sheets of a दिए ( कच्चा, still uncut ) basis size.
Japanese paper is expressed as the weight in kg of 1000 sheets.
Candace Nicole Parker ( born अप्रैल 19, 1986 ) is an American बास्केट खिलाड़ी लिये the WNBA 's लॉस Angeles स्पार्क्स and UMMC Ekaterinburg of Russia.
She is the younger सिस्टर of NBA player Anthony पार्कर.
वो attended the विश्वविद्यालयों of Tennessee और was drafted by the Sparks in 2008.
वो may be best ज्ञात for being the first woman to डंक in an ncaa टूर्नामेंट game and the first स्त्री to डंक twice in a कॉलेज game—she नियत both माइलस्टोन as a redshirt freshman on कूच 19, 2006.
She also became only the second खिलाड़ी to डंक in a wnba game on जून 22, 2008.
a versatile खिलाड़ी, वो is मुख्यतः a forward, but was listed on टेनेसी 's roster as a आगे, center, और guard.
वो was a प्रारंभ on the Lady Vols basketball team, विजेता of the 2007 and 2008 NCAA championships.
Parker जीती the 2009 Nickelodeon Kids ' Choice पुरस्कार as the favorite मादा खिलाड़ी in the sports श्रेणी.
And she was a guest स्टार on Figure It आउट.
a खाना guide पिरामिड is a pyramid shaped guide of स्वस्थ foods विभाजित into sections to दिखाएँ the recommended intake for प्रत्येक food समूह.
The पहला खाना pyramid was published in Sweden in 1974.
the most widely ज्ञात food pyramid थी introduced by the United राज्य Department of कृषि in the साल 1992, was updated in 2005, और तब replaced in 2011.
over 25 other countries and संगठनों have also published food पिरामिडों.
hans ईसाई Andersen ( ; often referred to in Scandinavia as H. C. andersen ; अप्रैल 2, 1805August 4, 1875 ) was a डैनिश लेखक और poet.
Although a सफल लेखक of plays, travelogues, novels, और poems, andersen is best remembered लिये his fairy tales, a साहित्यिक विधा he so mastered that he खुद रै become as mythical as the किस्से he wrote.
andersen 's लोकप्रियता is not सीमित to children ; उसके stories—called, or `` fantastic किस्से '' —express themes that transcend age and nationality.
During his lifetime he was acclaimed for having प्रसन्न children worldwide और थी feted by रॉयल्टी.
andersen 's fairy किस्से, जिससे have been translated into more than 125 languages, have become culturally अंतःस्थापित in the वेस्ट 's collective consciousness, readily accessible to children, but पेश lessons of पुण्य and resilience in the face of adversity for mature readers as खूब.
They have inspired motion pictures, plays, ballets, और एनिमेटेड films.
Two figures locking eyes in Caravaggio 's the सौभाग्य Teller
नजर सम्पर्क occurs जब `` two people look at each other 's आँखें at the same time. ''
In human beings, eye contact is a रूप of अशाब्दिक संचार और is विचार to have a large influence on social behavior.
coined in the जल्दी to mid-1960s, the term रै come in the वेस्ट to प्रायः define the act as a सार्थक and important चिह्न of विश्वास and social संचार.
the customs and significance of eye contact vary widely between cultures, with religious और सोशल differences often altering its अर्थ greatly.
The पढ़ाई of eye contact is sometimes ज्ञात as oculesics.
Bed बग हैं parasitic insects of the cimicid family कि फीड exclusively on blood.
The पद सबसे commonly refers to members of the genus cimex of जिससे Cimex lectularius, the common bed bug, is the best known as it prefers to फीड on इंसान blood although other cimex प्रजाति हैं specialized to other animals, e.g., bat bugs, C. pipistrelli ( Europe ), C. pilosellus ( पश्चिमी us ), and C. adjunctus ( entire पूर्वी US ).
The नाम of the `` bed bug '' is निकला from the preferred habitat of cimex lectularius : warm घरों and विशेषकर आसपास or inside of beds और bedding or other sleep areas.
bed bugs are मुख्यतः active at night, but हैं not exclusively nocturnal.
They प्रायः feed on their होस्ट बगैर being noticed.
a क्रमांक of adverse स्वास्थ्य प्रभाव may result from bed कीड़ा bites, सहित skin rashes, psychological प्रभाव, and allergic symptoms.
निदान involves दोनो finding bed बग and the occurrence of संगत symptoms.
Bed बग have been ज्ञात as human परजीवी for thousands of years.
At a पाइंट in the जल्दी 1940s, वे यहूद mostly eradicated in the विकसित संसार, लकिन have increased in व्यापकता since 1995.
Because infestation of इंसान habitats रै महरूम on the increase, bed कीड़ा bites और related शर्तें have been on the वृद्धि as खूब.
The Book of Isaiah ( ) is the first of the Latter नबियों in the Hebrew Bible, preceding ezekiel, यिर्मयाह and the Book of the बारह.
( the order of the subsequent books differs somewhat in the Christian बूढ़ा Testament ).
The first 39 chapters prophesy doom लिये a गुनाहगार Judah और for all the राष्ट्र of the संसार that oppose God, जबकि the last 27 prophesy the restoration of the nation of Israel और a new सृष्टि in God 's glorious भविष्य kingdom ; this section शामिल the Songs of the Suffering Servant, four पृथक passages referring to the स्वदेश of Israel, interpreted by Christians as prefiguring the coming of यीशु मसीह.
Tradition ascribes authorship of the book to Isaiah बेटे of amoz, but now विद्वानों widely agree that the book is the कार्य of three different लेखक - few scholars इनकार इस दृश्य, और those कि do, do so for theological reasons.
The first, termed Proto-Isaiah ( अध्याय 1–39 ), contains the शब्द of the 8th-century BCE prophet with 7th-century bce expansions ; the second, Deutero-Isaiah ( अध्याय 40–55 ), is the work of a 6th-century bce author writing near the end of the babylonian captivity ; और the third, the काव्य trito-isaiah ( अध्याय 56–66 ), was composed in Jerusalem shortly after the वापसी from exile, संभवतः by अनेक लेखक.
Oregon राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों ( osu ) is a coeducational, public research विश्वविद्यालयों स्तिथ in Corvallis, Oregon, United राज्य.
The university offers undergraduate, graduate और doctoral डिग्री and a multitude of research opportunities.
There are more than 200 अकादमिक degree कार्यक्रम offered through the विश्वविद्यालयों.
osu 's programs in microbiology, nuclear engineering, पारिस्थितिकी, वानिकी, पब्लिक health, biochemistry, zoology, oceanography, खाना विज्ञान and pharmacy are पहचाना nationally as शीर्ष tier programs.
the OSU 's उदार arts programs have भी grown significantly and the department is considered a `` cornerstone '' of the institution.
More than 200,000 लोगों have attended OSU since its founding.
The कार्नेगी न्यास classifies Oregon State University as part of its top tier of research institutions.
as of 2008, OSU is एक of तभी seventy-three land-grant universities.
The स्कूल is also recognized as a sea-grant, space-grant and sun-grant institution, making it one of तभी two US institutions to retain all four designations and the only public university to do so ( कॉर्नेल is the only अन्य with समान designations ).
As one of the two flagship universities of the Oregon विश्वविद्यालयों प्रणाली, OSU receives अधिक funding लिये research, annually, than सब अन्य public higher education संस्थानों in ऑरेगॉन संयुक्त.
Female स्खलन is the expulsion of fluid by human महिलाओं from the paraurethral नलिकाएं through और around the female urethra दौरान or पहले an orgasm.
it is also known colloquially as gushing or squirting, although these हैं माना to be different phenomena in some शोध publications.
The exact सोर्स and प्रकृति of the द्रव continue to be a topic of debate among medical professionals, जिससे is भी related to संदेह over the अस्तित्व of the G-Spot.
The Kanab ambersnail, scientific नाम oxyloma haydeni kanabensis or Oxyloma kanabense, is a critically endangered subspecies or प्रजाति of small, air-breathing land घोंघा, a terrestrial pulmonate gastropod mollusc in the परिवार succineidae, the amber snails.
The common name of the amber घोंघे is based on the शेल, which is translucent and when empty usually resembles amber in color.
This species is endemic to the संयुक्त राज्य, specifically the state of एरिज़ोना और यूटा, where it थी first collected in the जल्दी 20th सदी.
It रै महरूम सूचीबद्ध as endangered on the संयुक्त States मछली and वन्यजीव Service सूची of endangered species चूंकि 8 अगस्त 1991.
This घोंघा lives in वेटलैंड्स, स्रोतों, और seeps, and तभी two of its natural habitats हैं known to exist : Three झीलों, a मर्ग near Kanab, यूटा, and vasey 's Paradise, a वसन्त along the कोलोराडो River भीतर ग्रैंड Canyon National पार्क.
in its प्राकृतिक habitat it is बल्कि polyphagous, feeding मुख्यतः on bacteria, plants और fungi, और reproduces दौरान the summer.
Now considered a critically Endangered प्रजाति on the आईयूसीएन Red List of Threatened Species due to a series of factors ( including influence ), the Kanab ambersnail has been reintroduced to three springs above the ऐतिहासिक high water level साथ the कोलोराडो नदी.
the Spanish भाषा is the second most प्रयुक्त language in the United States.
There are अधिक Spanish अध्यक्षों in the United States than वहीँ are speakers of Chinese, French, जर्मनी, Italian, हवाई, और the Native American languages combined.
according to the 2010 अमरीकी Community Survey conducted by the U.S. जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो, स्पेनी is the primary language बोला at home by लगभग 37 million लोगों aged five or older, a figure अधिक than double that of 1990.
वहीँ हैं 45 million Hispanophones जो बोलो Spanish as a पहला or second language, as well as छह million Spanish भाषा students, composing the largest national Spanish-speaking community बाहर of मैक्सिको और making Spanish the Romance language and the Indo-European भाषा साथ largest number of देशी speakers in the world.
roughly half of all U.S. Spanish अध्यक्षों also बोलो English `` बहुत खूब, '' based on the self-assessment Census question respondents.
the language came to the country चूंकि the 16th और 17th centuries साथ the arrival of Spanish colonists in areas that would बाद become the राज्य of फ्लोरिडा, Texas, Colorado, New मैक्सिको, एरिज़ोना, Nevada, Utah, and कैलिफ़ोर्निया and of the स्पेनी explorers - who छान क्षेत्रों of 42 states-.
भी west of Louisiana Territory was स्पेनी between 1763 - 1800 ( साल of the फ्रेंच recovery of territory ), after the French और Indian War.
After of the incorporation of these राज्य to the U.S. in first half of 19th सदी, the Spanish भाषा was बाद reinforced by the acquisition of Puerto Rico in 1898 and by बाद waves of the Hispanic करणों, basically इससे Hispanic America, to the संयुक्त राज्य beginning in the second हाफ of 19th सदी जबतक आज.
is a लैटिन word कि means `` thus '' or, in writing, `` it थी thus in the source सामग्री ''.
Sic may also refer to:
sic, cluj, a commune in Romania
SIC, the क्षेत्रीय कोड लिये Sicily
sic ( noise कलाकार ), styled as [ sic ], stage name of जेनिफर Morris, a Canadian noise artist
sic ( band ) is a modern Hardcore/Thrash metal band from torshavn, the capital of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '', a song by अमरीकी बैंड slipknot on the album slipknot
SIC, the आरंभिक of मार्को Simoncelli.
SIC as an acronym may स्टैंड for:
SiC, Silicon carbide, a semiconducting सामग्री, also used to मेक metalworking tools
sic ( cyclecar ) ( società Italiana Cyclecars )
Standard औद्योगिक वर्गीकरण, a 20th-century U.S. system for classifying industries
अंतरराष्ट्रीय Standard औद्योगिक Classification a UN system लिये आर्थिक activities
Shetland आइलैंड्स परिषद
the Swiss interbank clearing system
San Isidro Club, an Argentine rugby union club
Standing Interpretation कमेटी, a कमेटी dedicated to the interpretation of अंतरराष्ट्रीय हिसाब standards IFRS
Schwarz सूचना criterion in the field of statistics
second-in-command in the field of विमानन
sistema Interconectado सेंट्रल शक्ति grid in चिली
Sociedade Independente de Comunicação ( SIC ), a टेलीविज़न channel in Portugal
समुद्र Isle नगर, New जर्सी, a तटीय town in the United States
Segmented पूर्णांक Counter mode, a mode of operation in क्रिप्टोग्राफी
Sepang International Circuit, a high-end racetrack कि hosts the Malaysian गोलाकार of सूत्र 1
Shanghai अंतरराष्ट्रीय Circuit, a motor racing venue in Shanghai, China
Simplified instructional computer, a hypothetical कंप्यूटर प्रयुक्त in systems प्रोग्रामिंग
SIC ( Sons Idées Couleurs ), an early twentieth-century art पत्रिका उत्पादित by फ्रेंच author पियरे albert-birot
Southeastern इलिनोइस College, a दो साल जूनियर College in Harrisburg, Illinois, United States
Specific आगमनात्मक capacity, abbreviated to SIC, which is more commonly known as the relative विद्युतशीलता or the dielectric constant
St ignatius ' College, Riverview, a Jesuit स्कूल in Sydney, ऑस्ट्रेलिया
alt=Five smiling यंग लड़कियों in various poses wearing white smocks over thigh-length पोशाक of similar color to their hair.
The टोकियो Mew Mew manga and anime श्रेणी features a cast of characters designed by मिया Ikumi.
The श्रेणी takes place in Tokyo, Japan, जहाँ पाँच adolescent girls, called mew Mews, are infused with the डीएनए of endangered प्रजाति to कॉम्बैट aliens attempting to take over the Earth.
the manga श्रेणी is followed by a short sequel series, Tokyo mew mew a la विधि, which introduces a new mew Mew and a नई threat.
The mew mews are led by the प्रमुख character, ichigo Momomiya, whose पहला task is to gather the अन्य four Mew Mews : मिंट Aizawa, सलाद midorikawa, खीर Fong, and Zakuro Fujiwara.
As the श्रेणी progresses, ichigo goes इससे having a crush on Masaya aoyama to becoming his गर्लफ्रेंड जबकि trying to hide her secret दोगुना life इससे him.
The series antagonists शामिल three aliens, Kish, Pie, and तीखा, and उनके नेता, Deep Blue.
Originally from धरती, the aliens were मजबूर to छोड़ long ago due to घातक पर्यावरणीय परिवर्तन.
They have returned to मार the इंसानो, who वे feel are destroying their ग्रह, and reclaim the planet.
In a la विधि, middle school student Berry shirayuki is introduced as the sixth mew mew and, in the absence of ichigo, the temporary leader of the mew mews.
a la विधि also introduces नई set of antagonists, the Saint Rose Crusaders, a group of human teenagers with various psychic abilities with a ख्वाहिश to create their own utopia.
Led by Duke, they make अनेक कोशिशें to मार बेरी, आखिरकार turning the local populace against the mew Mews.
ikumi 's initial vision for Tokyo Mew Mew थी a story called Tokyo Black Cat Girl that प्रदर्शित a cat-girl battling एलियन invaders.
After the story was transitioned to a more upbeat स्टोरी of five female superheroes, the character designs यहूद redone to have a lighter, more रंगीन महसूस.
the main श्रेणी characters यहूद praised लिये होने a पूर्ण अनुरूप for the overall story, as well as for उनके cute दिखावे.
the characters introduced in a la Mode were also praised for their विज़ुअल appearances, लकिन criticized as होने repeats of the original series.
The अक्षर Duke was भी criticized लिये having a डिज़ाइन reminiscent of the श्वेत supremacy group, the Ku Klux Klan.
Middle Triassic सीमांत marine sequence of siltstones ( नीचे ) and limestones ( ऊपर ), वर्जिन गठन, southwestern यूटा, USA
Sedimentary रॉक्स are types of rock that are formed by the deposition of material at the धरती 's सतह and within bodies of water.
sedimentation is the collective name for processes that cause mineral and/or organic particles ( detritus ) to settle और accumulate or minerals to precipitate from a समाधान.
अणु कि form a sedimentary rock by accumulating are called sediment.
Before being deposited, sediment was formed by weathering and erosion in a सोर्स area, and then transported to the place of deposition by water, wind, बर्फ, द्रव्यमान गति or glaciers which are called एजेंटों of denudation.
the sedimentary rock cover of the महाद्वीपों of the Earth 's crust is extensive, but the total contribution of sedimentary rocks is अनुमानित to be तभी 8 % of the total volume of the क्रस्ट.
Sedimentary rocks हैं only a thin veneer over a crust consisting mainly of igneous and कायांतरित रॉक्स.
sedimentary rocks हैं deposited in layers as strata, forming a structure called bedding.
The study of sedimentary rocks and rock strata provides सूचना परिचय the subsurface that is उपयोगी for civil engineering, for example in the construction of roads, houses, tunnels, नहरों or अन्य constructions.
Sedimentary रॉक्स are also महत्वपूर्ण स्त्रोत of natural resources like कोयले, fossil fuels, drinking जल or ores.
The study of the sequence of sedimentary rock strata is the main source लिये scientific knowledge about the Earth 's history, सहित palaeogeography, paleoclimatology and the history of life.
The वैज्ञानिक discipline that studies the properties and origin of sedimentary रॉक्स is पुकारा sedimentology.
sedimentology is both भाग of भूविज्ञान and physical भूगोल and overlaps partly साथ other disciplines in the Earth sciences, ऐसे as pedology, geomorphology, geochemistry or structural भूविज्ञान.
350px
Humans are born साथ over 270 bones, कुछ of which fuse साथ into a longitudinal अक्ष, the axial skeleton, to जिससे the appendicular skeleton is संलग्न.
Saint Patrick ( ; ; आधुनिक ; ; c. 387 – 17 March c. 460 or c. 492 ) थी a Romano-British Christian मिशनरी और बिशप in Ireland.
ज्ञात as the `` Apostle of आयरलैंड '', he is the primary संरक्षक saint of the island along साथ Saints Brigid और Columba.
Two प्रामाणिक letters इससे him survive, इससे जिससे आइये the only generally स्वीकृत विवरण of उसके जीवन.
जब he was परिचय 16, he was captured from उसके home and taken as a slave to Ireland, जहाँ he lived लिये six सालो पहले escaping और returning to his परिवार.
बाद बनने a मौलवी, he returned to उत्तरी और western Ireland as an ordained bishop, but little is known परिचय the places जहाँ he worked.
by the seventh century, he had already आइये to be revered as the patron saint of Ireland.
Most उपलब्धियाँ details of उसके life हैं from subsequent hagiographies, और these are now not accepted बगैर विस्तृत criticism.
The Annals of Ulster राज्य that he arrived in आयरलैंड in 432, ministered in Ulster around 443, and died in 457 or 461.
the टेक्स्ट, however, distinguishes between `` Old पैट्रिक '' ( thought to औसत Palladius ) and `` Patrick, archapostle of the Scots, '' जो died in 492.
the actual तिथियाँ of पैट्रिक 's जीवन can नहीं be fixed साथ certainty but, on a फैली interpretation, he was active as a missionary in आयरलैंड दौरान the second हाफ of the 5th century.
He is generally credited with being the पहला bishop of Armagh, Primate of All Ireland.
संत पैट्रिक 's Day is observed on March 17, the date of his death.
It is celebrated दोनो अंदर and outside आयरलैंड, as both a religious और, especially outside आयरलैंड, secular holiday.
In the dioceses of Ireland, it is दोनो a solemnity और a holy day of obligation ; outside Ireland, it can be a जश्न of Ireland itself.
Line segments in the golden ratio
a सुनहरी rectangle with longer पक्ष a और shorter पक्ष b, when placed adjacent to a square साथ पहलू of length a, होगा उपज a similar सुनहरी आयताकार with longer side a + b and shorter पक्ष a.
This illustrates the संबंध.
In गणित and the arts, two quantities are in the सुनहरी अनुपात if the ratio of the योग of the quantities to the larger quantity is equal to the ratio of the larger quantity to the smaller one.
The फिगर on the सही illustrates the geometric संबंध.
Expressed algebraically:
where the यूनानी अक्षर phi ( ) represents the golden ratio.
Its मान is:
The golden ratio is भी called the सुनहरी खण्ड ( Latin : sectio aurea ) or सुनहरी औसत.
अन्य names include extreme और औसत ratio, medial खण्ड, divine proportion, divine section ( लैटिन : sectio divina ), golden proportion, golden cut, and सुनहरी number.
अनेक 20th century कलाकारों and आर्किटेक्ट have proportioned their works to approximate the सुनहरी ratio—especially in the रूप of the golden आयताकार, in जिससे the अनुपात of the longer side to the shorter is the सुनहरी ratio—believing इस proportion to be aesthetically pleasing ( देखिए Applications और observations below ).
mathematicians since Euclid have पढ़ाई the गुण of the golden अनुपात, सहित इसके रूप in the dimensions of a regular प्रस्तुतीकरण and in a golden rectangle, जिससे can be cut into a square और a छोटी rectangle साथ the वही aspect ratio.
the golden ratio has also महरूम used to analyze the proportions of प्राकृतिक वस्तुएँ as well as man-made systems such as financial markets, in कुछ cases based on संदिग्ध fits to data.
North Myrtle Beach is a तटीय रिज़ॉर्ट city in Horry County, South कैरोलिना, United States.
it थी निर्मित in 1968 from चार existing municipalities north of Myrtle बीच, और serves as एक of the प्राथमिक tourist towns साथ the Grand strand.
the population was 13,752 at the 2010 census.
संसार War i ( wwi ) was a वैश्विक युद्ध केंद्रित in यूरोपीय that began on 28 July 1914 और lasted until 11 November 1918.
It थी predominantly पुकारा the World War or the Great War इससे its occurrence until the start of संसार War II in 1939, and the First World युद्ध or World War i thereafter.
It involved सब the संसार 's great powers, which were समवेत in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( आधारित on the ट्रिपल entente of the United किंगडम, France और Russia ) और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the ट्रिपल Alliance of जर्मनी, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; लकिन, as Austria–Hungary had लिया the offensive against the अनुबंध, Italy did not enter into the युद्ध ).
These alliances यहूद both reorganised and विस्तारित as more nations डाला the युद्ध : इटली, Japan और the संयुक्त राज्य joined the Allies, and the Ottoman Empire और Bulgaria the Central Powers.
ultimately, अधिक than 70 million military कर्मियों, including 60 million Europeans, यहूद mobilised in एक of the largest युद्धों in इतिहास.
अधिक than 9 लाख combatants were मारे, largely क्युकी of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर corresponding improvements in protection or गतिशीलता.
it was the fifth- deadliest विरोध in संसार history, subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये various political changes, ऐसे as revolutions in अनेक of the राष्ट्र involved.
एक of the long-term causes of the war थी the पुनरुत्थान of imperialism in the foreign नीतियों of the great शक्तियां of Europe.
अधिक immediately, the assassination of Archduke फ्रांज Ferdinand of Austria, the वारिस to the सिंहासन of Austria-Hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी Gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a राजनयिक संकट जब Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the किंगडम of सर्बिया.
Several alliances formed over the पिछला decades were invoked.
भीतर weeks, the major शक्तियां were at war and, via their colonies, the विरोध जल्द स्प्रेड around the world.
on 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first गोलियाँ of the war as preparation लिये the invasion of Serbia.
जबकि the Russians mobilised, the germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to France, providing a casus belli लिये Britain 's declaration of war विरूद्ध जर्मनी.
After the German कूच on पेरिस was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the पश्चिमी Front settled into a static battle of अपघर्षण साथ a trench लकीर that changed छोटी until 1917.
on the पूर्वी Front, the रूसी army थी successful विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians, but was रोका in its आक्रमण of East Prussia by the germans.
In November the Ottoman साम्राज्य joined the war, खोलने up fronts in the काकेशस, मेसोपोटामिया और the sinai.
Italy और बुल्गारिया went to war in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's सरकारी collapsed in कूच 1917 and a subsequent revolution in नवम्बर brought the russians to शर्तें साथ the सेंट्रल Powers.
After a 1918 German अप्रिय along the पश्चिमी front, the Allies drove वापस the germans in a series of कामयाब offensives and अमरीकी शक्तियां began प्रवेश the trenches.
जर्मनी, which had its own ट्रबल with क्रांतिकारियों, agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
the war ended in विजय लिये the allies.
कार्यक्रम on the घर fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the participants आजमाया to mobilize their जनशक्ति and economic संसाधन to fight a total war.
By the समाप्त of the war, four major इम्पीरियल powers—the German, Russian, austro-hungarian and उस्मानी empires—ceased to मौजूद.
The successor states of the former two lost a ग्रेट राशि of territory, while the latter two यहूद dismantled entirely.
the map of सेंट्रल Europe was redrawn into several छोटी states.
the लीग of राष्ट्र was formed in the hope of preventing another ऐसे conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the युद्ध और the breakup of empires, the परखना of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त and समस्याएं with the Treaty of Versailles हैं सहमत to be factors contributing to World War II.
Camden is a city in camden County, नई जर्सी, United राज्य.
It is the county सीट, located across the डेलावेयर River from Philadelphia.
as of the 2010 संयुक्त States Census the city था a total population of 77,344, representing a decline of 2,560 ( 3.2 % ) इससे the 79,904 residents enumerated during the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी, which had in turn declined by 7,588 ( 8.7 % ) इससे the 87,492 counted in the 1990 जनसांख्यिकी.
Camden ranked as the 12th-most populous municipality in the state in 2010 after having been ranked 10th in 2000.
Camden थी originally incorporated as a नगर on फ़रवरी 13, 1828, इससे portions of the now-defunct न्यूटन township, while the क्षेत्रफल was still part of Gloucester County.
on March 13, 1844, camden became part of the newly formed Camden County.
Although once a thriving बीच for निर्माण and उद्योग, Camden is perhaps best known लिये its struggles with शहरी dysfunction.
तीन camden mayors have महरूम jailed for भ्रष्टाचार, the most हाल being मिल्टन Milan in 2000.
चूंकि 2005 the school system and police विभाग have महरूम संचालित by the राज्य of नई Jersey ; the takeover समाप्त in 2012.
In 2008, Camden had the highest crime rate in the u.S. with 2,333 हिंसक crimes प्रति 100,000 people while the national average थी 455 per 100,000.
camden पब्लिक स्कूलों खर्च $ 23,770 प्रति student ( $ 19,118 on a budgetary per-pupil basis ) in the 2009–10 school साल and two-thirds of the विद्यार्थी graduate.
Two out of प्रत्येक five residents हैं below the नेशनल poverty लकीर.
amitriptyline ( Tryptomer, elavil, Tryptizol, laroxyl, Saroten, Sarotex, lentizol, endep ) is a tricyclic antidepressant ( TCA ).
it is the सबसे widely used TCA और रै at least equal efficacy विरूद्ध depression as the newer class of SSRIs according to a study इससे early 2001.
As well as reducing depressive symptoms, these प्रकार of tricyclics also आसानी migraines, tension headaches, anxiety attacks और some schizophrenic symptoms.
it is also known to reduce आक्रामकता and हिंसक बर्ताव.
A computer is a सामान्य purpose device that can be programmed to carry out a परिमित set of गणित or लॉजिकल परिचालन.
चूंकि a sequence of operations can be readily changed, the computer can solve more than one दयालु of problem.
Conventionally, a कंप्यूटर consists of at least one प्रसंस्करण element, typically a central processing unit ( cpu ) और some रूप of मेमोरी.
the processing element carries out गणित and लॉजिक operations, and a sequencing और control unit कि can change the order of operations based on भंडारित सूचना.
परिधीय डिवाइस allow information to be पुनर्प्राप्त इससे an external source, and the परिणाम of operations saved and पुनर्प्राप्त.
The first electronic digital computers were विकसित between 1940 and 1945 in the संयुक्त किंगडम और संयुक्त States.
Originally they were the आकार of a विशाल room, consuming as much power as several सौ आधुनिक निजी computers ( PCs ).
in इस era mechanical एनालॉग कंप्यूटर यहूद प्रयुक्त for सैन्य applications.
Modern कंप्यूटर based on एकीकृत circuits are लाखो to billions of times अधिक capable than the जल्दी machines, and occupy a fraction of the स्पेस.
Simple कंप्यूटर are छोटी पर्याप्त to अनुरूप into mobile डिवाइस, और mobile computers can be संचालित by छोटी बैटरी.
Personal computers in उनके various forms are icons of the सूचना Age और हैं what सबसे लोगों सोचो of as “computers.”
However, the embedded computers मिला in many devices इससे mp3 players to सेनानी aircraft and इससे toys to industrial robots are the most numerous.
`` Barefoot और pregnant '' is a phrase सबसे commonly associated with the विवादास्पद idea that महिलाओं should not work outside the home और should have many children during उनके reproductive years.
It has several other meanings as well.
It is a figure of वाक.
The phrase `` barefoot and pregnant '' थी संभवतः पहला प्रयुक्त sometime before 1950.
An article from 1949 राज्य, `` By early 1949, TWA was—in the शब्द of its नई president, Ralph S. Damon—both 'barefoot and pregnant. ' ''
Its usage may तिथि as जल्दी as the 1910s.
An article published in 1958 states the phrase was पहला प्रयुक्त by a `` Dr. Hertzler '' 40 years earlier.
`` Some forty सालो ago, Dr. Hertzler उन्नत a hypothesis which यंग महिलाओं of today seem झुकी on proving correct. '
the तभी way to रखना a स्त्री happy, ' he कहा, 'is to रखना her barefoot और गर्भवती. ' ''
Oakhurst is a census-designated place and unincorporated community within Ocean Township, in Monmouth County, New जर्सी, United States.
As of the 2010 United राज्य Census, the CDP 's population थी 3,995.
University of Phoenix स्टेडियम, opened August 1, 2006, is a multipurpose फ़ुटबॉल स्टेडियम located in Glendale, Arizona.
it is the home of the Arizona कार्डिनल्स of the नेशनल Football League ( NFL ) and the annual Fiesta Bowl.
The stadium is located अगला door to the jobing.com एरिना and it features the पहला fully retractable natural grass playing सतह built in the United States on top of an AirField प्रणालियों drainage system.
an खोलने on एक side of the stadium allows the playing field to मूव to the exterior of the building, allowing the entire natural turf playing surface to be exposed to daylight.
The stadium रै hosted सुपर कटोरी XLII, और the 2011 bcs नेशनल Championship Game, a game that it होस्ट every चार years, which set the venue 's entertainment attendance record of 78,603 on जनवरी 11, 2011.
it होगा again host Super कटोरी xlix in 2015.
the विश्वविद्यालयों of फीनिक्स acquired the naming rights in सितंबर 2006, shortly बाद the stadium था opened अंतर्गत the नाम कार्डिनल्स Stadium.
The `` विश्वविद्यालयों of Phoenix `` नाम is लागू as a corporate sponsor, और नहीं as the home स्टेडियम of the University ( which रै no intercollegiate athletics कार्यक्रम ).
the स्टेडियम has also hosted the WWE इवेंट WrestleMania XXVI साथ 72,219 प्रशंसक in attendance.
the event थी आयोजित in the stadium on March 28th 2010.
जोशुआ लॉरेंस चेम्बरलेन ( September 8, 1828 – फ़रवरी 24, 1914 ), born as Lawrence जोशुआ Chamberlain, was an अमरीकी कॉलेज professor from the राज्य of Maine, जो volunteered दौरान the American सिविल War to join the संघ फौज.
Although having no earlier education in military strategies, he became a अत्यधिक respected and decorated संघ अधिकारी, reaching the rank of ब्रिगेडियर general ( and brevet major सामान्य ).
For उसके gallantry at Gettysburg, he was awarded the पदक of सम्मान.
he was दिए the सम्मान of commanding the संघ सैनिकों at the आत्मसमर्पण ceremony for the infantry of Robert E. Lee 's Army at Appomattox, वर्जिनिया.
After the युद्ध, he entered राजनीती as a रिपब्लिकन और परोसा four one-year शर्तें of office as the 32nd Governor of Maine.
He परोसा on the faculty, and as अध्यक्ष, of उसके alma मेटर, bowdoin कॉलेज.
An inning, or innings, is a fixed-length खण्ड of a खेल in कोई of a variety of sports – most notably क्रिकेट and baseball दौरान which एक team attempts to score while the other टोली attempts to prevent the पहला from स्कोरिंग.
in क्रिकेट, the term innings is दोनो singular and plural and is always spelled and सुनाया साथ the terminal `` s ''.
In baseball and softball, the एकवचन रूप is inning and only the plural takes an `` s ''.
In अनेक अन्य sports, the length of the game is लिखवाई by a clock और teams swap अप्रिय और रक्षात्मक भूमिकाएँ dynamically by लेने possession of a बॉल or समान मद.
In बेसबॉल and cricket, however, एक टोली, कहा to be `` बल्लेबाजी '', कोशिशें to स्कोर `` runs '' —see चलाएं ( baseball ) और run ( cricket ) —while the अन्य टोली, said to be `` fielding '', कोशिशें to prevent the स्कोरिंग of रनों and get members of the batting team out.
the टीमों switch places after the fielding टोली रै succeeded in getting a fixed number of players आउट, making a clock अनावश्यक.
in क्रिकेट, the term innings is भी प्रयुक्त to refer to the खेल of one particular player ( Smith था a ग़रीब innings, scoring only 12 ).
by एक्सटेंशन, इस term can be प्रयुक्त in British अंग्रेज़ी लिये लगभग any activity जिससे takes a काल of time ( The उदार government had a good पारी, but आखिरकार lost दफ्तर in 1972, or You 've had a fair पारी, अभी it 's my फेरे, meaning `` you have spoken for long enough, now let me बोलो '' ).
it is भी प्रयुक्त in reference to someone who रै died at a reasonably old आयु or जिया a समृद्ध और rewarding life ( ah, खूब.
जॉन थी 89.
at least he था a शुभ innings ).
The baseball-derived parallel to इस in American English is the पद at bat.
According to the Oxford अंग्रेज़ी शब्दकोष, the term पारी has महरूम प्रयुक्त in सन्दर्भ to cricket since at तनिक 1735.
as क्रिकेट was a वयस्क, अत्यधिक व्यवस्थित खेल in the 1600s in England, the term 's उत्पत्ति could well precede this पहला अंकित usage.
the शब्द inning अर्थ 'a gathering in ' is first अंकित in 1522, और could be related.
एडीनोसिन deaminase deficiency, भी पुकारा एडीए कमियां or ada-scid, is an autosomal recessive metabolic विकार कि कल्याणकारी immunodeficiency.
It occurs in fewer than एक in 100,000 live births worldwide.
it accounts लिये about 15 % of all मामले of कठोर संयुक्त immunodeficiency ( SCID ).
it is बहुत विरल, तुम have a 3 % मौका of getting इस gene.
ADA deficiency may be उपस्थित in शैशव, childhood, adolescense, or adulthood.
Age of onset and severity is related to कुछ 29 known genotypes संबद्ध with the विकार.
An उदाहरण of urban गरीबी in इस slum in Jakarta, Indonesia
Poverty is the state of one जो lacks a certain amount of सामग्री possessions or money.
Absolute poverty or destitution refers to the पिछडे of basic human needs, which commonly includes food, water, sanitation, clothing, shelter, health परवाह and education.
Relative गरीबी is पारिभाषित contextually as economic inequality in the location or society in which people live.
For much of इतिहास, poverty was considered largely unavoidable as traditional मोड्स of production were insufficient to give an संपूर्ण population a आरामदायक standard of living.
After the industrial revolution, mass उत्पादन in कारखानों बना wealth increasingly more inexpensive and accessible.
Of more importance is the modernization of कृषि, such as fertilizers, in order to provide enough उपज to feed the population.
The supply of मौलिक needs can be restricted by constraints on government सेवाएं such as corruption, tax avoidance, debt and loan conditionalities और by the brain नाली of health care and educational professionals.
Strategies of increasing income to make मौलिक needs more सस्ती typically शामिल welfare, economic freedoms, और providing वित्तीय services.
गरीबी कटौती is a major goal and issue for अनेक international organizations such as the संयुक्त राष्ट्र and the संसार Bank.
The World बैंको estimated 1.29 billion लोगों were living in निरपेक्ष गरीबी in 2008.
of ये, about 400 million people in absolute गरीबी lived in India और 173 million लोगों in चीन.
in यूएसए 1 in 5 children जीवनदान in poverty.
in terms of percentage of regional populations, sub-saharan Africa at 47 % था the उच्चतम incidence rate of निरपेक्ष गरीबी in 2008.
between 1990 and 2010, about 663 लाख लोगों moved ऊपर the absolute poverty level.
स्टिल, चरम गरीबी is a वैश्विक चुनौती ; it is observed in all parts of the world, including the विकसित economies.
Mushroom poisoning ( also ज्ञात as mycetism ) refers to नुकसानदेह प्रभाव from ingestion of विषाक्त substances उपस्थित in a मशरूम.
ये symptoms can vary इससे पतला gastrointestinal तकलीफ to death.
the toxins present हैं secondary metabolites produced in specific biochemical pathways in the fungal cells.
मशरूम विषाक्तता is usually the result of ingestion of जंगली mushrooms after misidentification of a toxic mushroom as an edible species.
The most आम reason for this misidentification is बंद प्रतिरूप in terms of रंग और general morphology of the toxic mushrooms प्रजाति with खाद्य प्रजाति.
Even very अनुभवी जंगली मशरूम gatherers are upon विरल occasion poisoned by खाने toxic species, despite being well जागरूक of the risks, through carelessness.
To prevent मशरूम poisoning, मशरूम gatherers need to be very familiar with the मशरूम they intend to collect as well as with कोई similar-looking toxic species.
in जोड, edibility of mushrooms may depend on methods of तैयारी लिये कुकिंग.
Collectors भी need to be well aware कि edibility or toxicity of some species varies साथ geographic location.
इंसान height is the distance इससे the bottom of the feet to the top of the सिर in a human देह, खड़ा erect.
जब populations share genetic पृष्ठभूमि and पर्यावरणीय factors, average ऊँचाई is अक्सर characteristic within the समूह.
Exceptional ऊँचाई variation ( around 20 % deviation इससे average ) within such a population is sometimes due to gigantism or dwarfism, जिससे हैं medical शर्तें caused by specific genes or endocrine abnormalities.
in regions of extreme poverty or prolonged warfare, environmental कारकों like chronic malnutrition दौरान बाल्यकाल or किशोरावस्था may account for delayed विकास and/or ( in severe मामले ) marked reductions in adult stature भी बगैर the presence of any of ये medical शर्तें.
Apollo 11 थी the spaceflight that landed the पहला इंसानो, अमेरिकी Neil Armstrong और Buzz Aldrin, on the Moon on July 20, 1969, at 20:18 UTC.
Armstrong became the first to कदम onto the lunar सतह 6 घंटों later on जुलाई 21 at 02:56 utc.
आर्मस्ट्रांग खर्च about two और a half hours बाहर the spacecraft, एल्ड्रिन थोड़ा less ; and together वे collected of lunar material लिये return to Earth.
a third member of the मिशन, Michael Collins, piloted the कमांड spacecraft अलोन in lunar orbit until Armstrong and एल्ड्रिन लौटे to it just under a दिन बाद for the ट्रिप back to Earth.
Launched by a Saturn V rocket इससे Kennedy स्पेस Center in Merritt Island, Florida on July 16, Apollo 11 was the पांचवां मानवयुक्त mission of NASA 's अपोलो कार्यक्रम.
The अपोलो spacecraft had तीन parts : a Command मोड्यूल साथ a cabin for the three astronauts जिससे was the only भाग जिससे landed back on धरती ; a सेवा मोड्यूल जिससे supported the Command Module साथ नोदन, electrical power, ऑक्सीजन और जल ; and a चंद्र Module for landing on the Moon.
After being भेजा to the Moon by the Saturn V 's upper stage, the astronauts अलग the spacecraft from it and travelled लिये three दिनों जबतक वे entered into lunar orbit.
आर्मस्ट्रांग और Aldrin तब moved into the चंद्र Module and landed in the समुद्र of Tranquility.
वे stayed a total of परिचय 21 and a half hours on the चंद्र surface.
After उठाने off in the अपर part of the Lunar मोड्यूल और rejoining Collins in the कमांड मोड्यूल, they लौटे to Earth and उतरा in the Pacific Ocean on July 24.
Broadcast on live tv to a world-wide audience, आर्मस्ट्रांग stepped onto the चंद्र surface और वर्णित the event as `` one small step for [ a ] man, one giant leap लिये mankind. ''
Apollo 11 effectively ended the Space रेस and fulfilled a नेशनल लक्ष्य proposed in 1961 by the late U.S. President जॉन F. Kennedy in a वाक पहले the United States Congress, `` पहले इस decade is आउट, of landing a man on the Moon और returning उसे safely to the Earth. ''
The FIFA संसार Cup, often simply the संसार Cup, is an international association football प्रतियोगिता contested by the senior men 's नेशनल teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football संघ ( FIFA ), the खेल 's global governing body.
The चैंपियनशिप has been awarded every चार years since the inaugural tournament in 1930, except in 1942 और 1946 when it was not held because of the दूसरी World War.
the current champions are Spain, who won the 2010 tournament.
The current स्वरूप of the टूर्नामेंट involves 32 teams competing for the शीर्षक at venues within the मेजबान nation ( s ) over a period of परिचय a month ; इस phase is प्रायः called the संसार Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, जिससे currently takes प्लेस over the preceding तीन सालो, is used to determine which टीमों qualify लिये the tournament together with the host nation ( s ).
the 19 World Cup tournaments have महरूम won by eight अलग नेशनल teams.
ब्राज़ील have won five टाइम्स, और they हैं the only team to have निभाई in every tournament.
the अन्य संसार Cup विजेता हैं इटली, with four titles ; जर्मनी, साथ three titles ; Argentina and inaugural winners उरुग्वे, with two titles each ; और इंग्लैण्ड, France, और स्पेन, साथ एक शीर्षक each.
the संसार कप is the संसार 's सबसे widely viewed sporting इवेंट ; an अनुमानित 715.1 million लोगों देखी the final मैच of the 2006 फीफा संसार Cup आयोजित in जर्मनी.
the next three संसार Cups होगा be hosted by Brazil in 2014, रूस in 2018, and क़तर in 2022.
Genocide is a पद coined in 1944 by राफेल lemkin to describe the deliberate and systematic destruction, in पूरे or in भाग, of an ethnic, racial, religious, or national समूह.
It is पारिभाषित in आलेख 2 of the सम्मेलन on the Prevention and दंड of the Crime of Genocide ( CPPCG ) of 1948 as `` कोई of the following acts committed with intent to नष्ट, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group, as such : हत्या members of the group ; causing serious bodily or mental harm to members of the समूह ; deliberately inflicting on the groups शर्तें of life, calculated to bring about इसके physical destruction in पूरे or in part ; imposing measures intended to prevent births भीतर the समूह ; [ और ] forcibly transferring children of the group to another group. ''
skulls of victims of the Rwandan नरसंहार
the preamble to the CPPCG not only states that `` नरसंहार is a अपराधों under international विधि, contrary to the spirit और aims of the संयुक्त Nations और condemned by the civilized संसार '', but also that `` at सब periods of history genocide has inflicted ग्रेट losses on humanity ''.
determining what historical कार्यक्रम constitute a genocide and which हैं merely criminal or अमानवीय बर्ताव is नहीं a clear-cut पदार्थ.
In nearly प्रत्येक case where आरोपों of नरसंहार have circulated, partisans of various sides have fiercely disputed the निर्वचन और details of the event, प्रायः to the पाइंट of promoting wildly different संस्करण of the facts.
An accusation of genocide is कतई not taken lightly and will लगभग सदा be controversial.
The following सूची of genocides and alleged genocides चाहिए be understood in this context और can नहीं be regarded as the फाइनल word on ये subjects.
A समय belt is a non-slipping mechanical ड्राइव बेल्ट and the पद may refer to either:
Toothed बेल्ट, a flexible belt साथ दांत moulded onto its inner surface
Timing belt ( camshaft ), a toothed belt used to ड्राइव the camshaft ( s ) within an internal combustion engine
the culture of the United राज्य is primarily a Western culture, लकिन is भी influenced by Native American, अफ़्रीकी, Asian, Polynesian, और लैटिन अमरीकी cultures.
American culture started its गठन over 10,000 years पहले with the माइग्रेशन of paleo-indians इससे Asia into the region कि is आज the महाद्वीपीय United राज्य.
it has its own unique सोशल and सांस्कृतिक विशेषताएँ ऐसे as dialect, म्यूज़िक, arts, सोशल habits, cuisine, and folklore.
The संयुक्त राज्य of America is an ethnically और racially diverse country as a result of large-scale आव्रजन इससे many अलग देशों throughout its history.
Its chief जल्दी यूरोपीय प्रभाव came इससे English, Scottish, वेल्श और Irish settlers of colonial America during अंग्रेजों rule.
British संस्कृति, due to औपनिवेशिक ties with ब्रिटेन that spread the अंग्रेज़ी भाषा, विधिक system and other सांस्कृतिक inheritances, had a formative influence.
Other important influences came इससे other parts of पश्चिमी यूरोपीय, especially जर्मनी, फ़्रांस, and Italy.
Original elements also play a दमदार role, ऐसे as the आविष्कार of jeffersonian democracy.
थामस Jefferson 's Notes on the State of वर्जिनिया थी शायद the first influential घरेलू cultural critique by an American और a reactionary piece to the prevailing European सर्वसम्मति कि अमेरिका 's घरेलू मौलिकता was degenerate.
Prevalent ideas और आदर्शों that विकसित domestically, ऐसे as national holidays, uniquely American sports, military परंपरा, और innovations in the कला and entertainment give a strong भाव of national अभिमान among the population as a whole.
American संस्कृति शामिल दोनो conservative और liberal तत्व, वैज्ञानिक और religious competitiveness, political structures, risk लेने और फ़्री expression, भौतिकवादी and moral तत्व.
despite certain consistent वैचारिक सिद्धान्त ( e.g. individualism, egalitarianism, and आस्था in स्वतंत्रता और democracy ), American संस्कृति रै a किस्में of expressions due to इसके भौगोलिक स्केल and demographic diversity.
The लचीलापन of U.S. संस्कृति और its अत्यधिक सांकेतिक प्रकृति lead कुछ शोधकर्ताओं to categorize अमरीकी संस्कृति as a mythic identity ; अन्य see it as अमरीकी exceptionalism.
It also includes तत्व कि evolved इससे Indigenous Americans, and other जातीय cultures—most prominently the संस्कृति of African अमेरिकी, cultures from Latin अमेरिका, and Asian अमरीकी cultures.
अनेक American cultural तत्व, विशेषकर इससे popular culture, have spread across the globe through modern द्रव्यमान मीडिया.
the United राज्य रै प्रायः been विचार of as a melting घट, लकिन beginning in the late 1990s और early 2000s, it trends towards सांस्कृतिक विविधता, बहुलवाद और the image of a सलाद कटोरी instead.
Due to the extent of American संस्कृति, वहीँ हैं many एकीकृत but अद्वितीय social subcultures within the संयुक्त States.
the सांस्कृतिक affiliations an individual in the United States may have commonly depend on सोशल class, political orientation and a multitude of demographic विशेषताएँ such as धार्मिक background, occupation और ethnic समूह membership.
Samoan ( Gagana fa'a sāmoa or Gagana Sāmoa — IPA : ) is the language of the samoan आइलैंड्स, comprising the independent देश of Samoa and the संयुक्त States territory of American Samoa.
It is an आधिकारिक language—alongside English —in both jurisdictions.
samoan, a पोलिनेशियाई भाषा, is the first भाषा लिये सबसे of the समोआ आइलैंड्स ' population of परिचय 246,000.
With many Samoan people जीना in other countries, the कुल क्रमांक of अध्यक्षों विश्वव्यापी is estimated at 370,000.
the language is notable लिये the phonological differences between औपचारिक and informal speech as well as a ceremonial form प्रयुक्त in samoan oratory.
A ग्लूकोज सहिष्णुता test is a medical test in which glucose is given and blood samples taken afterward to determine कैसा जल्दी it is साफ from the blood.
The test is प्रायः used to test for मधुमेह, इंसुलिन resistance, और sometimes प्रतिक्रिया hypoglycemia और acromegaly, or rarer विकार of carbohydrate metabolism.
in the most commonly performed version of the परीक्षण, an मौखिक glucose सहिष्णुता test ( OGTT ), a standard dose of glucose is ingested by mouth और blood स्तर are checked two घंटों बाद.
अनेक विसंगतियाँ of the GTT have been devised over the years for various purposes, साथ different मानक doses of ग्लूकोज, different routes of प्रशासन, different intervals और durations of sampling, and विभिन्न substances measured in जोड to blood glucose.
`` कया About me '' is a song written by Garry Frost and Frances swan, पहला recorded by Australian rock band Moving Pictures from their album दिनों of Innocence.
It थी the band 's पहला number-one single in ऑस्ट्रेलिया बिता छह consecutive weeks on the top ; वहीँ, it थी the second-highest selling सिंगल of 1982.
The success of the सोंग led them to अमेरिका जहाँ it became a hit, reaching # 29 on the u.s. Billboard Hot 100 चार्ट.
the song stayed in the u.S. charts for ऐसे a long समय कि it managed to मेक Billboards top 100 पॉप Singles of 1983, at # 88, a विरल feat for a single with ऐसे a low शिखर स्थिति.
the song made an unusual comeback in 1989, peaking at # 46.
on the left a मुर्गा अंडा, the egg most commonly eaten by इंसानो, and on the right two quail अंडे
Eggs are laid by females of many अलग प्रजाति, सहित birds, reptiles, amphibians, और मछली, और have been eaten by mankind लिये हज़ारों of years.
Bird and reptile eggs consist of a सुरक्षात्मक eggshell, albumen ( अंडा white ), और vitellus ( अंडा yolk ), contained within विभिन्न thin झिल्लियों.
Popular चुनाव लिये egg खपत are मुर्गा, बतख, बटेर, roe, and caviar, लकिन the अंडा most often consumed by humans is the chicken egg, by a wide margin.
Egg yolks and whole eggs स्टोर significant amounts of protein and choline, and are widely used in cookery.
Due to their प्रोटीन सामग्री, the United States विभाग of कृषि ( यूएसडीए ) categorizes eggs as Meats within the खाना Guide Pyramid.
Despite the nutritional मान of eggs, there हैं कुछ संभावित health issues arising from अंडा विशेषता, storage, और individual allergies.
Chickens and other egg-laying creatures are widely kept throughout the संसार, and mass production of chicken eggs is a global industry.
In 2009, an अनुमानित 62.1 million metric टन of अंडे यहूद उत्पादित worldwide from a total लेटा flock of लगभग 6.4 billion मुर्गियां.
There हैं मुद्दे of regional variation in माँग and expectation, as well as current debates concerning विधि of mass उत्पादन, with the यूरोपीय संघ 's ban on बैटरी farming of मुर्गियों.
Major League सॉकर ( mls ) is a पेशेवर soccer league representing the खेल 's highest level in the United राज्य और कनाडा.
Sanctioned by the United States Soccer Federation ( U.S. सॉकर ), the league is composed of 19 teams — 16 in the U.S. and 3 in कनाडा.
Seasons presently run इससे March to December, with each team playing 34 खेल in the नियमित season.
टेन टीमों compete in the postseason MLS Cup playoffs culminating in the चैंपियनशिप game, the mls Cup.
Major लीग Soccer was founded in 1993 as part of the संयुक्त राज्य ' बोली to host the 1994 FIFA World Cup.
The पहला ऋतु took place in 1996 beginning साथ ten teams.
बजाय of ऑपरेटिंग as an संघ of independently owned teams, MLS is a single एंटिटी जहाँ each टोली is स्वामित्व and controlled by the league 's investors.
The league 's closed membership makes it one of the संसार 's few सॉकर लीग not using promotion और relegation.
The legality of कैनबिस varies इससे country to देश.
Possession of cannabis is illegal in most देशों and रै महरूम since the beginning of फैली cannabis prohibition in the late 1930s.
However, अनेक countries have decriminalized the कब्ज़ा of small quantities of कैनबिस, विशेषकर in North अमेरिका, South अमेरिका and Europe.
furthermore, possession is legal or effectively legal in the नीदरलैंड्स, North Korea और होता be in the U.S. states of Colorado and Washington if it यहूद not लिये संघीय विधि, which governs persons in all राज्य.
the medicinal use of cannabis is legal in a number of countries, सहित Canada, the Czech Republic and Israel.
While federal law in the United States bans सब sale and possession of कैनबिस, enforcement varies widely at the राज्य स्तर और some राज्य have established औषधीय मारिजुआना programs in that खण्डन संघीय law ; two states ( Colorado और Washington ) have repealed उनके कानून prohibiting the recreational उपयोग of cannabis and replaced उन्हें with a regulatory regime, also contrary to संघीय statute.
कुछ देशों have laws that हैं not as vigorously prosecuted as others लकिन, apart इससे the countries that offer access to medical मारिजुआना, सबसे countries have विभिन्न penalties ranging इससे lenient to very कठोर.
Some infractions are taken more seriously in some countries than others in regard to the cultivation, use, possession or transfer of कैनबिस for recreational use.
a few jurisdictions have lessened penalties लिये possession of small quantities of कैनबिस, making it punishable by confiscation और a fine, बल्कि than कारावास.
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts use mandatory उपचार programs for यंग or frequent users, साथ स्वतंत्रता from narcotic दवाएँ as the लक्ष्य and a few jurisdictions permit कैनबिस उपयोग for medicinal purposes.
There are also changes in a more restrictive direction as in Canada.
ड्रग tests to detect कैनबिस are increasingly common in many countries and have resulted in jail sentences and लोगों losing उनके कार्य.
However, simple कब्ज़ा can carry long कारावास वाक्य in some देशों, particularly in भाग of East एशिया and southeast एशिया जहाँ the बिक्री of cannabis may lead to a वाक्य of life in prison or भी निष्पादन.
In cardiovascular physiology, ejection भिन्न ( EF ) represents the volumetric fraction of blood pumped out of the ventricle ( heart ) with each heart beat or cardiac साईकिल.
It can be applied to either the right ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary परिसंचरण or the left ventricle which ejects via the aortic valve into the प्रणालीगत परिसंचरण.
इमेजिंग of the physiology of the mammalian heart is the art कि allows सार्थक mathematical अभिव्यक्ति defining ef.
Noninvasive cardiac इमेजिंग has become a worldwide utility enabling study of हृदय प्रदर्शन reproducibly and inexpensively.
Simplified, Ejection भिन्न is a गणितीय उत्पाद allowed by cardiac imaging.
as a गणितीय पद, Ejection भिन्न is an extension of the work of Adolph Fick in हृदय आउटपुट.
Dedicated प्रौद्योगिकी ऐसे as इकोकार्डियोग्राफी, Computed टोमोग्राफी, Magnetic अनुनाद Imaging और muga स्कैनिंग have definitively अनुमत clinically relevant mathematics regarding ischemia, Congenital दिल Disease and Heart Failure.
राज्य Route 14 ( SR 14 ) is a north–south state राजमार्ग in the U.S. state of California, largely in the mojave मरुस्थल.
The southern portion of the राजमार्ग is हस्ताक्षरित as the Antelope Valley फ्रीवे.
the route connects Interstate 5, or Golden राज्य Freeway, निकट सांता clarita और with U.S. रूट 395 निकट Inyokern.
Legislatively, the रूट extends south of I-5 to राज्य Route 1 in the प्रशांत Palisades area of लॉस Angeles, however the portion south of the junction साथ I-5 has नहीं महरूम constructed.
The southern part of the constructed route is a busy commuter freeway सेवारत and connecting the समुदायों of सांता clarita, palmdale और Lancaster with the rest of the Greater Los एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल.
The northern portion, from Vincent ( south of Palmdale ) to Route 395, is legislatively नामित the Aerospace राजमार्ग, as the राजमार्ग serves Edwards Air Force Base, once one of the primary landing स्ट्रिप्स for NASA 's स्पेस Shuttle.
This section is rural, following the लकीर between the hot Mojave desert and the forming Sierra Nevada mountain range.
सबसे of रूट 14 is loosely paralleled by a main लकीर of the दक्षिणी Pacific रेलरोड, प्रयुक्त लिये the Antelope घाटी Line of the metrolink commuter रेल प्रणाली as well as a कनेक्शन between लॉस Angeles and the California Central Valley via Tehachapi pass.
Linked with US 395, this road connects लॉस एंजिल्स साथ ऐसे places as मैमथ Mountain, Mono Lake, Yosemite National Park और रेनो, Nevada.
Route 14 थी भाग of u.S. Route 6 prior to truncation in 1964, जब U.S. 6 was a coast-to-coast रूट इससे Long बीच to Provincetown, Massachusetts.
The non-freeway खण्ड of sr 14 from चांदी महारानी Road उत्तर of rosamond to Mojave is known as Sierra राजमार्ग, as is the old रूटिंग between अंतरराज्यीय 5 और चांदी महारानी Road जहाँ SR 14 has महरूम स्थानांतरित to a newer freeway alignment.
portions of रूट 14 remain हस्ताक्षरित with names संबद्ध साथ US 6, including मिडलैंड ट्रेल, Theodore Roosevelt Highway and ग्रैंड फौज of the गणतंत्र राजमार्ग.
इस रूट is भाग of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया Freeway और Expressway System.
Blindness is the कंडीशन of lacking visual बोध due to physiological or neurological कारकों.
Various scales have महरूम विकसित to describe the extent of vision loss and define blindness.
कुल दृष्टिहीनता is the पूरा lack of form and विज़ुअल light बोध and is clinically अंकित as NLP, an abbreviation for `` no light perception. ''
दृष्टिहीनता is frequently used to describe severe visual impairment साथ दृष्टि.
Those वर्णित as having only light बोध have no more sight than the क्षमता to बताना light इससे अंधेरा और the सामान्य direction of a light source.
To determine which people may need special सहायता because of their विज़ुअल disabilities, various governmental jurisdictions have formulated अधिक जटिल परिभाषाएं referred to as विधिक blindness.
in North America and most of Europe, legal blindness is defined as visual तीक्ष्णता ( दृष्टि ) of 20/200 ( 6/60 ) or कम in the better नजर with बेहतरीन सुधार possible.
This means that a legally blind व्यक्तिगत would have to स्टैंड from an object to देखिए it—with corrective lenses —with the same degree of स्पष्टता as a normally sighted person could from.
in अनेक areas, people with average तीक्ष्णता जो nonetheless have a विज़ुअल field of कम than 20 degrees ( the norm होने 180 degrees ) हैं भी classified as होने legally blind.
Approximately ten percent of those deemed legally अँधा, by any माप, have no vision.
The rest have some vision, इससे लाइट perception alone to relatively शुभ acuity.
Low vision is sometimes प्रयुक्त to describe visual acuities from 20/70 to 20/200.
By the 10th Revision of the WHO International Statistical Classification of Diseases, चोटों and Causes of Death, low दृष्टि is पारिभाषित as विज़ुअल acuity of less than 20/60 ( 6/18 ), but equal to or better than 20/200 ( 6/60 ), or corresponding visual field घाटा to less than 20 degrees, in the better eye with बेहतरीन संभावित सुधार.
Blindness is पारिभाषित as visual तीक्ष्णता of less than 20/400 ( 6/120 ), or corresponding visual फ़ील्ड घाटा to less than 10 डिग्री, in the better eye साथ best possible correction.
Blind लोगों साथ undamaged आँखें may still पंजीकरण लाइट non-visually for the purpose of circadian entrainment to the 24-hour light/dark साईकिल.
Light सिग्नल for this purpose सफर through the retinohypothalamic tract and हैं नहीं affected by optic तंत्रिका क्षति परे जहाँ the retinohypothalamic tract exits.
Earl सीमन्स ( born December 18, 1970 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके stage names dmx and Dark Man x, is an अमरीकी rapper and actor.
in 1999, dmx released his best-selling album... And Then There Was X, which featured the hit सिंगल `` Party Up ( up in Here ) ``.
He has acted in films such as Belly, Romeo जरूर die, निकास Wounds, पालना 2 The Grave, and Last Hour.
in 2006, he starred in the reality टेलीविज़न series, which was primarily aired on the BET cable television network.
in 2003, DMX प्रकाशित a book of his memoirs हकदार, e.a.r.l. : The आत्मकथा of DMX.
dmx released a mixtape the तौल In as a prelude/promotion towards his एल्बम undisputed ( 2012 ).
dmx रै sold over 30 million रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी, बनाना उसे एक of the best-selling hip-hop कलाकारों of all समय.
पेशेवर certification, trade प्रमाणन, or professional नामांकन, often called बस प्रमाणन or qualification, is a नामांकन अर्जित by a person to assure योग्यता to perform a जॉब or कार्य.
नहीं all certifications that use post-nominal letters हैं an acknowledgement of educational achievement, or an agency नियुक्त to safeguard the public interest.
Bugs बनी is a मजेदार animal cartoon character, best remembered for his starring roles in the Looney Tunes और merrie Melodies series of नाट्य छोटी films उत्पादित by Warner भाईs. दौरान the सुनहरी age of American animation.
उसके लोकप्रियता during इस era led to his becoming a कॉरपोरेट mascot of warner भाईs. Entertainment.
बग is an anthropomorphic gray हरे or rabbit who is famous for his flippant, personality, a सुनाया नई यॉर्क एक्सेंट, his portrayal as a trickster, and his catch phrase `` Eh...
What 's up, doc ? ''
( usually कहा while चबाने a carrot ).
बग has appeared in more films than any other cartoon अक्षर and is the ninth most portrayed film personality in the संसार.
According to उसके 1990 `` biography '' Bugs Bunny : 50 सालो और Only One धूसर हरे, Bugs was born on July 27, 1940 in Brooklyn, New York in a वारेन अंतर्गत ebbets फ़ील्ड, home of the Brooklyn डॉजर्स.
In reality, he was brought to life by the animators and स्टाफ of लिओन schlesinger Productions ( later warner Bros. cartoons ) : सहित Tex एवेरी, who directed बग ' early definitive short a Wild Hare ( 1940 ) ; रॉबर्ट McKimson, who created बग ' निर्णायक character डिज़ाइन ; और mel Blanc, जो originated the voice of बग.
the श्लेष्मक झिल्लियों ( or mucosae or mucosas ; singular mucosa ) हैं linings of mostly endodermal origin, covered in epithelium, which are involved in absorption and secretion.
They line cavities that are exposed to the external पर्यावरण and आतंरिक organs.
They are at several places संलग्न with skin : at the nostrils, the होठ of the mouth, the eyelids, the कानों, the genital area, और the anus.
The sticky, thick fluid secreted by the श्लेष्मक झिल्लियों और glands is termed mucus.
The term mucous झिल्ली refers to जहाँ they are मिला in the देह and not प्रत्येक mucous membrane secretes mucus.
The glans clitoridis, glans शिश्न ( head of the penis ), साथ with the inside of the foreskin और the clitoral हुड, are mucous membranes.
The urethra is also a mucous झिल्ली.
the स्रावित mucus traps the pathogens in the body, preventing कोई further activities of diseases.
a master sergeant is the सैन्य रैंक for a वरिष्ठ non-commissioned officer in कुछ armed forces.
केक is a रूप of ब्रैड or bread-like खाना.
in इसके modern forms, it is typically a sweet baked dessert.
In its oldest forms, cakes were सामान्यतः fried breads or cheesecakes, and normally had a डिस्क shape.
determining whether a given food चाहिए be वर्गीकृत as bread, केक, or pastry can be difficult.
आधुनिक cake, विशेषकर परत cakes, सामान्यतः contain a combination of आटा, sugar, eggs, और मक्खन or आयल, with कुछ किस्में भी requiring liquid ( typically milk or जल ) and leavening agents ( such as yeast or baking चूर्ण ).
Flavorful ingredients like fruit purées, nuts, dried or candied fruit, or extracts are प्रायः added, और numerous substitutions for the प्राथमिक ingredients are संभावित.
cakes हैं often filled साथ फल preserves or dessert sauces ( like pastry मलाई ), iced with buttercream or अन्य icings, and सजा साथ marzipan, piped borders or candied fruit.
Cake is often the dessert of choice for meals at ceremonial occasions, particularly विवाह, वर्षगांठ, और जन्मदिन.
There are countless cake recipes ; some are bread-like, some rich and elaborate, and अनेक हैं centuries बूढ़ा.
Cake बनाना is no longer a complicated procedure ; जबकि at एक time considerable labor went into केक making ( particularly the whisking of अंडा foams ), बेकिंग equipment and दिशानिर्देश have महरूम simplified so that भी the सबसे amateur cook may bake a cake.
tamara faye LaValley Bakker Messner ( March 7, 1942 – जुलाई 20, 2007 ) was an American Christian सिंगर, evangelist, उद्योगों, author, बात दिखाएँ host, and टेलीविज़न personality.
वो was शादीशुदा इससे 1961 to 1992 to televangelist, और बाद convicted felon, जिम bakker.
She co-hosted साथ him on The PTL क्लबों ( 1976–1987 ).
वो was a participant in the 2004 season of the वास्तविकता show The Surreal Life.
Cambria is a गाँव in Columbia County, विस्कॉन्सिन, United राज्य.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 767 at the 2010 census.
It is भाग of the Madison Metropolitan सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल.
Public policy is the principled guide to action taken by the प्रशासनिक कार्यपालिका शाखाओं of the state with लिहाज़ to a class of मुद्दे in a manner सतत साथ विधि और institutional customs.
in general, the न्यास is the pertinent national and substantial संवैधानिक law and implementing विधान such as the US संघीय कोड.
Further substrates include both न्यायिक interpretations and regulations which हैं generally authorized by विधान.
Other विद्वानों define it as a system of `` courses of कार्रवाई, regulatory उपायों, laws, और funding priorities concerning a दिए टॉपिक promulgated by a governmental एंटिटी or इसके representatives. ''
पब्लिक नीति is commonly embodied `` in constitutions, legislative acts, and judicial decisions. ''
in the संयुक्त राज्य, this concept refers not only to the result of नीतियों, लकिन अधिक broadly to the decision-making and विश्लेषण of सरकारी decisions.
As an अकादमिक discipline, public नीति is studied by professors और विद्यार्थी at पब्लिक नीति schools of major universities throughout the country.
The u.S. professional संघ of पब्लिक policy practitioners, researchers, scholars, and विद्यार्थी is the Association for Public Policy विश्लेषण and Management.
पाचन is the mechanical and रासायनिक विश्लेषण of खाना into छोटी components कि हैं more easily absorbed into a blood stream, लिये उदाहरण.
Digestion is a form of catabolism : a breakdown of विशाल food अणुओं to smaller ones.
When food enters the mouth, digestion of the खाना starts by the कार्रवाई of mastication, a रूप of mechanical digestion, and the wetting सम्पर्क of saliva.
लार, a द्रव secreted by the salivary ग्रंथियों, contains salivary amylase, an enzyme which starts the digestion of starch in the food.
बाद undergoing mastication and मंड digestion, the खाना will be in the form of a small, गोलाकार slurry mass called a bolus.
it होगा तब travel down the esophagus and into the stomach by the action of peristalsis.
Gastric juice in the stomach starts प्रोटीन पाचन.
gastric juice mainly contains हाइड्रोक्लोरिक एसिड and pepsin.
As these two chemicals may damage the stomach wall, mucus is स्रावित by the stomach, providing a slimy परत कि acts as a shield against the damaging effects of the chemicals.
at the same time protein digestion is occurring, mechanical mixing occurs by peristalsis, which हैं waves of muscular contractions that मूव along the पेट wall.
This allows the mass of food to further mix with the digestive enzymes.
बाद some समय ( typically an hour or दो in humans, 4–6 hours in dogs, somewhat shorter अवधि in हाउस बिल्लियों ), the resulting मोटा liquid is पुकारा chyme.
When the pyloric sphincter वाल्व opens, chyme enters the duodenum जहाँ it mixes साथ digestive enzymes from the pancreas, and then passes through the छोटी intestine, in which digestion continues.
When the chyme is fully पचता, it is अवशोषित into the blood.
95 % of अवशोषण of nutrients occurs in the small intestine.
जल and खनिज are reabsorbed वापस into the रक्त in the colon ( विशाल intestine ) जहाँ the pH is slightly acidic परिचय 5.6 ~ 6.9.
कुछ vitamins, such as biotin और vitamin k ( K2MK7 ) उत्पादित by bacteria in the colon हैं भी अवशोषित into the रक्त in the colon.
बर्बाद material is eliminated from the मलाशय दौरान defecation.
हेनरी VIII ( 28 June 1491 – 28 January 1547 ) was king of England from 21 April 1509 until उसके मौत.
he was रब, और बाद king, of Ireland, as खूब as continuing the नाममात्र claim by the English monarchs to the Kingdom of फ़्रांस.
हेनरी was the second monarch of the ट्यूडर dynasty, succeeding उसके father, हेनरी VII.
Besides उसके छह marriages, हेनरी VIII is known for his भूमिका in the विरह of the Church of इंग्लैण्ड इससे the Roman Catholic गिरिजाघर.
Henry 's struggles with Rome led to the विरह of the Church of England from papal प्राधिकार, the Dissolution of the monasteries, और उसके own स्थापना as the Supreme सिर of the गिरिजाघर of England.
yet he remained a believer in core Catholic theological teachings, even after his excommunication इससे the Roman Catholic Church.
Henry oversaw the legal union of England and Wales साथ the कानून in Wales Acts 1535 and 1542.
in 1513, the नई किंग allied साथ the पावन रोमन Emperor, maximillian i, and invaded फ़्रांस in 1513 साथ a large, well-equipped army, but achieved little at a considerable financial लागत.
Maximillian, for his part, प्रयुक्त the अंग्रेज़ी invasion to उसके own ends, और this prejudiced England 's क्षमता to शिकस्त the फ्रेंच.
इस foray होता prove the start of an obsession for Henry, who invaded again in 1544.
इस समय, हेनरी 's शक्तियां captured the important city of Boulogne, लकिन again the पावन Roman Emperor, Charles v, supported Henry तभी as long as he needed to and इंग्लैण्ड, strained by the विशाल cost of the war, ransomed the city back for सलाम.
उसके contemporaries considered Henry in his prime to be an attractive, educated and accomplished king, और he has been वर्णित as `` one of the most charismatic शासकों to sit on the English सिंहासन ''.
Besides ruling साथ absolute power, he also engaged himself as an author and composer.
His ख्वाहिश to provide England साथ a पुरूष heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly because he believed a daughter होता be असमर्थ to consolidate the Tudor dynasty and the fragile सलाम कि existed following the Wars of the गुलाब – led to the two बाते for which Henry is सबसे remembered : his six marriages and the अंग्रेज़ी Reformation.
Henry became morbidly obese and his स्वास्थ्य suffered, contributing to his death in 1547.
He is अक्सर characterised in his later life as a lustful, egotistical, हर्ष, and असुरक्षित किंग.
Bongos ( Spanish : bongó ) हैं an Afro-Cuban percussion instrument.
The drums are of different आकार : the larger drum is called in Spanish the hembra ( female ) and the छोटी the मर्दाना ( male ).
They are membranophones, or instruments that create ध्वनि by a स्पंदन of a stretched झिल्ली.
Different religious groups शामिल अलग किताबे in their Biblical canons, in varying orders, and sometimes divide or combine books, or incorporate additional सामग्री into canonical books.
ईसाई bibles range from the sixty-six किताबे of the Protestant canon to the eighty-one books of the Ethiopian Orthodox tewahedo Church canon.
The यहूदी Bible, or tanakh, contains twenty-four books divided into तीन भाग ; the five किताबे of the Torah ( `` teaching '' or `` law '' ), the Nevi'im ( `` नबियों '' ), और the ketuvim ( `` कृतियाँ '' ).
The पहला part of ईसाई Bibles is the बूढ़ा वसीयत, which contains, at न्यूनतम, the twenty-four books of the यहूदी बाइबल विभाजित into thirty-nine किताबे और ordered differently from the Hebrew Bible.
the Catholic गिरिजाघर और Eastern Christian churches भी hold certain deuterocanonical किताबे और passages to be भाग of the बूढ़ा Testament canon.
The दूसरी भाग is the New Testament, containing twenty-seven books ; the चार Canonical gospels, Acts of the रसूलों, twenty-one Epistles or अक्षर and the Book of Revelation.
The Eastern परंपरागत, प्राच्य Orthodox and Eastern Catholic चर्च may have minor मतभेद in their lists of accepted किताबे.
the सूची given यहाँ लिये these चर्च is the most समावेशी : if at तनिक एक पूर्वी church accepts the book it is शामिल यहाँ.
the नेशनल flag of the संयुक्त States of America, often बस referred to as the अमरीकी ध्वज, consists of thirteen equal आड़ा stripes of red ( top and bottom ) alternating with white, with a blue rectangle in the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing पचास छोटी, श्वेत, five-pointed stars arranged in नौ ऑफसेट आड़ा पंक्ति of six सितारों ( शीर्ष और bottom ) प्रत्यावर्ती साथ पंक्ति of five stars.
The 50 सितारों on the flag represent the 50 राज्य of the संयुक्त राज्य of America and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen British colonies that declared स्वतंत्रता from the Kingdom of Great Britain and became the first states in the Union.
Nicknames for the ध्वज include the `` Stars and Stripes '', `` बूढ़ा महिमा ``, and `` The Star-Spangled ध्वज. ''
Dred स्कॉट v. Sandford,, भी ज्ञात as the Dred स्कॉट Decision, थी a लैंडमार्क निर्णय by the U.S. Supreme Court.
it made two main rulings.
the पहला ruling was that African-Americans were not नागरिकों, और इसलिए had no standing to sue in संघीय court.
the second ruling थी that the संघीय government had no power to regulate गुलामी in any territory acquired subsequent to the creation of the United राज्य.
दिए the first ruling, सबसे विद्वानों and many समकालीन political आंकड़े ( including the leadership of the then-new Republican Party ) माना कि the दूसरी सत्ताधारी थी नहीं binding precedent, but mere dictum.
the युक्तिसंगत of the परम् Court regarding the jurisdictional सत्ताधारी implied कि people of अफ़्रीकी descent ( both स्लेव and free ) यहूद नहीं protected by the संविधान and यहूद नहीं U.S. citizens.
Since passage of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. संविधान, दोनो rulings हैं superseded और no longer valid precedent.
Nonetheless, the case retains ऐतिहासिक significance as it is widely regarded as the worst decision ever made by the परम् Court.
The राय of the court, written by मुख्य Justice Roger B. taney, stirred बहस.
the decision थी 7–2, और every Justice besides Taney wrote a पृथक concurrence or dissent.
For the पहला time since marbury v. मैडिसन, the अदालत held an अधिनियम of Congress to be unconstitutional.
Dred Scott, an African-American slave, था asked a United States Circuit अदालत to पुरस्कार उसे his freedom क्युकी he and उसके master had resided in a state ( Illinois ) and a territory ( विस्कॉन्सिन territory ) where गुलामी had been बैन.
Chief Justice रोजर taney, लिखने for the court, held that स्कॉट, as a person of अफ़्रीकी ancestry, was नहीं a citizen of the United States and इसलिए had no सही to sue in federal court.
This holding was contrary to the practice of numerous राज्य at the time, विशेषकर Free राज्य, where free blacks did in फैक्ट आनंद the अधिकारों of citizens, such as the right to vote and थाम public office.
In what is sometimes considered mere obiter dictum, the Court गई on to थाम कि Congress had no प्राधिकार to prohibit गुलामी in संघीय territories because slaves हैं निजी property and the Fifth amendment to the संविधान protects property owners against पिछडे of their property without due process of law.
in reaching this निर्णय, Taney had hoped to settle the growing controversy surrounding slavery in the United राज्य, but it had the विपरीत effect.
The निर्णय was fiercely debated across the देश, as perhaps बेहतरीन सरंचनाओं by the Lincoln–Douglas debates of 1858.
Abraham lincoln, the second-ever रिपब्लिकन nominee लिये अध्यक्ष, was समर्थ to win the अध्यक्षीय election in 1860 ; the stopping of the further expansion of slavery was a कुंजी रिपब्लिकन पार्टी यों.
The decision played an important role in the समय of राज्य secession और the Civil War, हालांकि it is extreme to say the decision `` caused '' the war.
The decision is acknowledged लिये the influential भूमिका it निभाई in altering the national political landscape : it is credited साथ शुभारंभ Abraham Lincoln’s national राजनैतिक career and ultimately allowing लिये his चुनाव.
Although the Supreme अदालत has never explicitly overruled the Dred स्कॉट मामला, the Court stated in the slaughter-house Cases that at least एक भाग of it था already महरूम overruled by the fourteenth amendment in 1868, which begins by stating, `` All persons born or देशीयकृत in the United States, और subject to the jurisdiction thereof, हैं citizens of the संयुक्त राज्य और of the State wherein they reside. ''
to which the Court noted:
The पहला observation we have to make on this clause is, कि it puts at rest both the सवाल जिससे we stated to have महरूम the subject of मतभेद of राय.
it declares that persons may be citizens of the United States बगैर लिहाज़ to their नागरिकता of a particular राज्य, और it overturns the dred Scott निर्णय by making all persons born भीतर the United राज्य and विषय to its क्षेत्राधिकार citizens of the United राज्य.
There are dozens of neighborhoods in कोलंबस, ओहियो.
Some are hard to define, as वे encompass large areas विकसित at अलग times—often with sub-neighborhoods within them.
Borders can also change based on लोकप्रिय understanding of the क्षेत्रफल, as well as the whims of the residents.
This आलेख uses data from the datasourcecolumbus Web site, spotcrime.com, HelloColumbus.com, as खूब as the various कोलंबस क्षेत्रफल Commissions to define the विभिन्न areas.
Excerpts and border information are drawn directly from the main आलेख.
A biologist is a scientist जो अध्ययन living जीवों और their relationship to their environment.
biologists शामिल in basic research attempt to discover underlying mechanisms that govern how organisms कार्य.
Biologists involved in applied research attempt to develop or improve चिकित्सा, औद्योगिक or agricultural प्रक्रियाओं.
Martinus विलेम Beijerinck, a botanist और microbiologist
Base jumping from a चट्टान in a wingsuit.
आधार jumping, also sometimes written as B.A.S.E. jumping, is an कार्यकलाप where participants jump from फिक्स्ड objects and use a parachute to ब्रेक their fall.
`` BASE '' is an एक्रोनिम that stands लिये four श्रेणी of fixed objects इससे जिससे एक can जम्प : buildings, एन्टेना, spans ( bridges ), और earth ( cliffs ).
The British shorthair is a domesticated cat whose सुविधाएँ मेक it a लोकप्रिय नस्ल in cat shows.
It रै been the most popular नस्ल of cat registered by the UK 's Governing Council of the बिल्ली Fancy ( GCCF ) since 2001, when it overtook the Persian breed.
The USA बास्केट मेन 's Senior नेशनल टोली, commonly ज्ञात as the United States men 's national basketball टोली, represents the संयुक्त States of America in अंतरराष्ट्रीय मेन 's basketball.
The USA is the most successful team in international competition, जीतना medals in सब seventeen ओलम्पिक tournaments it has entered, coming दूर साथ चौदह golds.
Two of its सुनहरा medal-winning दस्तों यहूद inducted to the naismith मेमोरियल Basketball हॉल of Fame as टीमों in अगस्त 2010—the 1960 टोली, which featured छह Hall of Famers ( 4 खिलाड़ी, 2 coaches ), और the 1992 `` सपना Team '', featuring 14 हॉल of Famers ( 11 players, 3 coaches ).
The संयुक्त States is currently ranked first in the fiba World Rankings.
traditionally रचित of amateur players, a 1989 rule बदलें by FIBA अनुमत USA बास्केट to field teams with पेशेवर players.
The पहला such team, known as the `` सपना टोली '', जीती the gold medal at the 1992 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक in Barcelona, स्पेन, playing in the final विरूद्ध Croatia.
साथ the introduction of professionals, the टोली थी able to चिंगारी a second चलाएं of दबदबा after capturing only a कांस्य पदक in 1988.
a team of पेशेवर players competed at the 1994 fiba संसार Championship, finishing first.
In 1996, 2000, 2008, and 2012 the USA again captured सुनहरा medals.
Facing increased competition, the USA विफल to win a medal at the 2002 FIBA संसार चैंपियनशिप, finishing sixth.
the 2004 Summer Olympic टोली lost three games on its रास्ता to a कांस्य पदक, a रिकार्ड that represented more नुकसान in a सिंगल year than the देश 's Olympic टीमों था suffered in all previous Olympiads combined.
संकल्पित to put an समाप्त to these failures, यूएसए Basketball initiated a long-term प्रोजेक्ट aimed at creating better, अधिक cohesive teams.
the USA जीती its पहला seven games at the 2006 FIBA World Championship in जापानी पहले losing against Greece in the semi-finals, ending the competition साथ the कांस्य medal.
the USA won gold two years later, हालांकि, at the 2008 गर्मियाँ Olympics with a प्रबल performance.
इस success was followed up at the 2010 FIBA World चैंपियनशिप, जहाँ despite fielding a roster featuring no players from the 2008 Olympic team, the यूएसए did नहीं lose a single game en रूट to defeating host Turkey for the सुनहरा पदक.
The यूएसए continued this streak of दबदबा by going undefeated और capturing gold once अधिक at the 2012 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक.
The स्टीलर्स Super Bowl XL रिंग
Joe theismann 's सुपर Bowl Ring ( right )
The Super कटोरी ring is an पुरस्कार in the National फ़ुटबॉल लीग given to the winners of the लीग 's सालाना World चैंपियनशिप game, the Super Bowl.
Since तभी एक विंस Lombardi ट्रॉफी is awarded to the team ( स्वामित्व ) itself, the सुपर कटोरी रिंग offers a collectible memento लिये the वास्तविक players and team members to keep लिये themselves to symbolize the victory.
Image प्रर्दशित the six most common speleothems साथ labels.
to view labels.
the डायन 's उंगली in the carlsbad Caverns
a stalagmite ( or ; from the यूनानी σταλαγμίτης - stalagmitês, from σταλαγμίας - stalagmias, `` छोड़ने, trickling '' ) is a type of speleothem कि rises इससे the मंजिल of a चूना cave due to the टपकता of mineralized solutions and the deposition of calcium कार्बोनेट.
इस stalagmite गठन occurs तभी under निश्चित pH conditions within the underground cavern.
The सम्बन्धित formation on the ceiling of a cave is ज्ञात as a stalactite.
if these formations grow together, the परिणाम is known as a column.
The हॉल of दिग्गज in the carlsbad Caverns
Stalagmites चाहिए normally नहीं be छुआ, since the rock buildup is formed by minerals precipitating आउट of the जल solution onto the बूढ़ा surface ; skin oils can alter the सतह where the खनिज जल will cling, thus affecting the growth of the गठन.
Oils और मैल from इंसान सम्पर्क can also stain the formation and change इसके रंग permanently.
Similar structures can also रूप in lava tubes, associated with some प्रकार of lavacicles, although the mechanism of गठन is very different.
Stalactites and stalagmites can also form on concrete ceilings and floors, हालांकि they form much more rapidly वहीँ than in the natural गुफा पर्यावरण.
The largest stalagmite in the world is high and is located in the गुफा of Cueva मार्टिन Infierno, Cuba.
in the ज़ाग्रोस Mountains of दक्षिण Iran, लगभग इससे the ancient नगर of bishapur, in the Shapur गुफा on the fourth of five terraces स्टैंड the 3rd century CE प्रतिमा of Shapur I, दूसरी ruler of the सासानी Empire.
The statue, carved from एक stalagmite, is nearly ऊँची.
How I Met Your Mother is an American sitcom कि premiered on CBS on सितंबर 19, 2005.
The दिखाएँ was created by Craig थामस and Carter Bays.
How I Met Your माँ is framed by the year 2030, जब टेड mosby ( voiced by bob Saget ) gathers his बेटी ( Lyndsy fonseca ) और son ( David Henrie ) to बताना उन्हें the स्टोरी of how he met उनके mother.
we flashback to where it begins in 2005 with टेड Mosby ( Josh Radnor ) as a single, 27-year-old architect living साथ उसके two best मित्रों from Wesleyan University, मार्शल eriksen ( जेसन Segel ), a law student, और Lily Aldrin ( alyson Hannigan ), a kindergarten टीचर, जो have been डेटिंग लिये almost नौ years when Marshall proposes.
Their engagement causes टेड to सोचो परिचय ढूंढना उसके अपना soul mate, much to the disgust of उसके dost Barney stinson ( Neil पैट्रिक Harris ), a womanizer with an बेनाम corporate job.
और thus, Ted begins उसके search for उसके perfect mate, and meets रोबिन Scherbatsky ( Cobie Smulders ), whom he भी befriends.
The 100th episode of कैसा I मिले अपना Mother aired on January 11, 2010.
On December 21, 2012, the series was renewed लिये a ninth season.
On January 30, 2013, it was घोषित that Season 9 होगा be its final ऋतु.
Gringo (,, ) is a slang Spanish and Portuguese word used in ibero-america, to denote foreigners, प्रायः from the United States.
The term can be लागू to someone who is actually a foreigner, or it can denote a दमदार association or assimilation into विदेशी ( particularly US ) society and culture.
In स्पेनी it करता not have a ऋणात्मक connotation.
Roger Axtell, a travel तहज़ीब विशेषज्ञ, टीप कि `` [ t ] he शब्द gringo is not necessarily a bad word.
it is slang लकिन is derogatory only in its उपयोग and context. ''
The शब्द थी प्रयुक्त in Spain long before it crossed the अटलांटिक to denote foreign, non-native अध्यक्षों of Spanish.
the ग्रेट white शार्क, Carcharodon carcharias, also known as the great श्वेत, white सूचक, white शार्क, or white मौत, is a प्रजाति of विशाल lamniform shark which can be मिला in the coastal सतह waters of सब the प्रमुख महासागर.
The ग्रेट white शार्क is मुख्यतः known for its size, with the largest individuals known to have approached or exceeded in length, और in weight.
इस shark पहुँच its maturity around 15 सालो of आयु and can have a life स्पैन of over 30 years.
The ग्रेट white शार्क is arguably the world 's largest known extant macropredatory मछली, and is one of the primary परभक्षी of marine स्तनधारियों.
it is also ज्ञात to शिकार upon a किस्में of other marine animals, including fish और seabirds.
It is the only ज्ञात surviving species of इसके genus Carcharodon, and is क्रमित first in having the most attacks on इंसानो.
The IUCN सूची the great white shark as a vulnerable प्रजाति, जबकि it is included in Appendix ii of CITES.
the bestselling novel Jaws by Peter benchley और the subsequent blockbuster फिल्मी by Steven स्पिलबर्ग चित्रित the great श्वेत शार्क as a `` ferocious man eater ``.
In reality, humans हैं not the preferred शिकार of the great white shark.
the United States हथियारबंद शक्तियां हैं the सैन्य forces of the United States of America.
वे consist of the Army, नेवी, Marine Corps, एयर Force, and Coast Guard.
the U.S. has a दमदार परंपरा of civilian control of the सैन्य.
the अध्यक्ष is the सैन्य 's overall सिर, और helps form military नीति साथ the u.S. Department of Defense ( dod ), a federal executive department, एक्टिंग as the प्रिंसिपल organ by जिससे सैन्य नीति is carried आउट.
The DoD is headed by the Secretary of Defense, who is a civilian and कैबिनेट सदस्य.
the Defense सचिव is second in the military 's कड़ी of कमांड, just below the President, and serves as the principal सहायक to the President in सब DoD-related matters.
To coordinate military action with कूटनीति, the अध्यक्ष रै an सलाहकार National सुरक्षा Council headed by a नेशनल Security सलाहकार.
Both the अध्यक्ष और Secretary of Defense are advised by a seven-member Joint Chiefs of स्टाफ, which includes the सिर of प्रत्येक of the रक्षा Department 's service branches as well as the chief of the नेशनल Guard Bureau.
नेतृत्व is provided by the अध्यक्ष of the Joint chiefs of Staff and the Vice Chairman of the Joint chiefs of स्टाफ.
The कमांडेंट of the coast Guard is not a सदस्य of the Joint chiefs of Staff.
All of the branches work together during परिचालन and संयुक्त missions, under the Unified Combatant Commands, under the प्राधिकार of the सचिव of रक्षा साथ the exception of the Coast Guard.
the Coast Guard जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the administration of the Department of Homeland Security and receives its operational orders इससे the Secretary of Homeland Security.
The Coast Guard may be transferred to the विभाग of the Navy by the President or Congress दौरान a time of war.
सब पाँच armed services are among the seven uniformed services of the United राज्य ; the others हैं the U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned corps and the National oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Corps.
From the समय of its inception, the सैन्य played a निर्णायक role in the history of the United States.
a sense of national एकता and identity was forged as a परिणाम of victory in the First barbary War and the Second Barbary युद्ध.
Even so, the Founders were suspicious of a स्थाई military force and not जबतक the outbreak of संसार युद्ध ii did a large standing army become officially established.
the National Security अधिनियम of 1947, adopted following World War ii and during the Cold War 's onset, निर्मित the modern u.S. सैन्य framework ; the Act merged previously Cabinet-level विभाग of युद्ध and the Department of the नेवी into the नेशनल Military Establishment ( renamed the Department of Defense in 1949 ), headed by the सचिव of रक्षा ; and created the विभाग of the एयर Force और National Security परिषद.
The u.S. सैन्य is one of the largest militaries in terms of number of कर्मियों.
It draws its manpower from a large पूल of paid volunteers ; हालांकि conscription has महरूम used in the past in various times of both war और peace, it has नहीं महरूम used चूंकि 1972.
As of 2013, the U.S. spends about $ 554.2 billion annually to fund its military forces, and appropriates लगभग $ 88.5 अरब to निधि Overseas Contingency Operations.
put together, the U.S. constitutes roughly 43 percent of the संसार 's military expenditures.
the U.S. Armed Forces as a whole possess विशाल quantities of advanced and powerful equipment, along with widespread अवस्थिति of forces around the world, giving them significant सामर्थ्य in both रक्षा और शक्ति projection.
Freedom of speech is the political सही to communicate one 's opinions and ideas using one 's body and प्रॉपर्टी to anyone who is willing to receive them.
the पद freedom of अभिव्यक्ति is sometimes used synonymously, but includes कोई अधिनियम of seeking, receiving and imparting information or विचार, regardless of the मीडियम used.
In अभ्यास, the सही to freedom of वाक is not absolute in कोई देश और the right is commonly विषय to limitations, as with libel, बदनामी, obscenity, sedition ( including, for example inciting ethnic hatred ), कापीराइट उल्लंघन, रहस्योद्घाटन of information that is वर्गीकृत or otherwise.
The सही to freedom of expression is पहचाना as a human सही अंतर्गत Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and recognized in international इंसान rights law in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय वचन on सिविल और Political Rights ( iccpr ).
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold राय without हस्तक्षेप '' and `` everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression ; this सही shall include स्वतंत्रता to seek, receive और impart सूचना and ideas of all kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in writing or in print, in the form of art, or through any other media of his choice ''.
Article 19 goes on to say कि the कसरत of these rights carries `` special duties and responsibilities `` and may `` इसलिए be subject to certain प्रतिबंध '' when necessary `` [ f ] or आदर of the अधिकारों or प्रतिष्ठा of others '' or `` [ f ] or the protection of नेशनल सुरक्षा or of public order ( अनुक्रम पब्लिक ), or of public health or नैतिकता ''.
Freedom of speech may be legally curtailed in some religious legal systems और in secular jurisdictions जहाँ it is found to cause religious offense, ऐसे as the अंग्रेजों जातिगत और Religious Hatred अधिनियम 2006.
the Big Bang Theory लोगो.
The Big Bang Theory is an American कॉमेडी टेलीविज़न श्रेणी created और executive produced by Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady.
Like the name of the श्रेणी itself, साथ the exception of the पहला episode— '' Pilot '' —episode शीर्षक of the बिग बंग सिद्धान्त सदा प्रारंभ with `` the '' और resemble the name of a scientific principle, theory or experiment, whimsically referencing a प्लाट point or quirk.
, 133 episodes have aired.
the Big Bang Theory रै been नवीनीकृत for a seventh ऋतु.
Dwight David `` Ike '' Eisenhower ( सुनाया, ; October 14, 1890 – कूच 28, 1969 ) was the 34th अध्यक्ष of the United States इससे 1953 जबतक 1961.
he had previously been a five-star general in the United राज्य Army दौरान World War II और परोसा as Supreme Commander of the अलाइड शक्तियां in Europe ; he था responsibility लिये नियोजन और supervising the invasion of उत्तर Africa in Operation Torch in 1942–43 and the successful invasion of France and Germany in 1944–45 इससे the पश्चिमी Front.
in 1951, he became the first supreme commander of NATO.
Eisenhower थी of पेन्सिलवेनिया Dutch ancestry and was reared in a large परिवार in कान्सास by अभिभावक with a मजबूत work ethic and religious background.
As एक of six sons, he was conditioned by a competitive atmosphere which instilled self-reliance.
He attended and graduated from West पाइंट और later married and had two बेटे.
After World War ii, आइज़नहावर परोसा as Army Chief of स्टाफ अंतर्गत अध्यक्ष Harry S. ट्रूमैन, then assumed the post of अध्यक्ष at Columbia विश्वविद्यालयों.
Eisenhower डाला the 1952 presidential रेस as a Republican to counter the non-interventionism of Senator Robert A. Taft and to crusade विरूद्ध `` साम्यवादी, कोरियाई और भ्रष्टाचार ''.
He won by a landslide, defeating Democrat Adlai Stevenson and ending two decades of the New Deal Coalition.
in the पहला साल of उसके presidency, आइज़नहावर deposed the leader of इरान in the 1953 Iranian coup d'état and प्रयुक्त नाभिकीय threats to conclude the Korean War साथ चीन.
His New dekh policy of नाभिकीय deterrence gave प्रधानता to inexpensive नाभिकीय हथियार जबकि reducing the funding for conventional military forces ; the goal was to keep pressure on the सोवियत संघ और reduce federal deficits.
in 1954, Eisenhower पहला articulated the domino theory in his वर्णन of the threat presented by the spread of साम्यवादी.
The कॉंग्रेस agreed to his निवेदन in 1955 लिये the Formosa रेज़ोल्यूशन, जिससे enabled उसे to prevent Chinese कम्युनिस्ट आक्रामकता against Chinese nationalists and established the U.S. नीति of defending Taiwan.
When the Soviets launched Sputnik in 1957, he had to खेल catch-up in the space रेस.
Eisenhower forced इसराईल, the uk, और फ़्रांस to end उनके invasion of Egypt during the स्वेज Crisis of 1956.
in 1958, he sent 15,000 us troops to लेबनान to prevent the pro-Western government from गिरना to a Nasser -inspired revolution.
Near the end of his term, उसके efforts to set up a summit meeting with the Soviets collapsed because of the u-2 incident.
On the domestic front, he covertly opposed Joseph मैकार्थी और contributed to the end of mccarthyism by openly invoking the आधुनिक expanded version of कार्यपालिका privilege.
He वरना left सबसे political कार्यकलाप to उसके वाइस अध्यक्ष, Richard निक्सन.
He was a moderate रूढ़िवादी जो जारी New Deal agencies और expanded Social सुरक्षा.
among his enduring innovations, he launched the Interstate Highway System ; the Defense Advanced शोध Projects एजेंसी ( DARPA ), which led to the internet, among अनेक invaluable आउटपुट ; the नेशनल Aeronautics और Space Administration ( नासा ), ड्राइविंग peaceful डिस्कवरी in space ; the establishment of strong science शिक्षा via the नेशनल Defense Education Act ; and प्रोत्साहित peaceful उपयोग of नाभिकीय शक्ति via amendments to the परमाणु Energy अधिनियम.
in social policy, he sent federal सैनिकों to छोटी Rock, अरकंसास, for the first time since पुनर्निर्माण to enforce federal court आदेश to desegregate public स्कूलों.
He also signed civil अधिकारों legislation in 1957 और 1960 to protect the सही to vote.
he implemented desegregation of the armed forces in दो years and बना five appointments to the परम् Court.
He was the पहला term-limited अध्यक्ष in accordance with the 22nd Amendment.
Eisenhower 's two शर्तें were peaceful ones लिये the सबसे part and saw considerable आर्थिक समृद्धि मगर for a sharp मंदी in 1958–59.
Eisenhower is often ranked highly among the U.S. Presidents.
एयर फ़ोर्स One is the official air traffic control कॉल sign of a United States एयर Force aircraft carrying the अध्यक्ष of the United States.
In common parlance the पद refers to those Air Force वायुयान specifically designed, निर्मित, और used for the purpose of transporting the अध्यक्ष.
the Presidential aircraft is a prominent प्रतीक of the American presidency और इसके शक्ति.
the idea of designating specific military वायुयान to transport the President arose in 1943, when officials of the संयुक्त राज्य Army Air Forces – the predecessor to the U.S. Air Force – became चिंतित साथ relying on वाणिज्यिक एयरलाइंस to हस्तांतरण the अध्यक्ष.
a C-87 Liberator Express थी reconfigured for use as a presidential transport ; however, it was rejected by the Secret Service amid concerns over the aircraft 's safety रिकार्ड.
A C-54 Skymaster was then converted for presidential उपयोग ; this वायुयान, उतावले the पवित्र गाय, transported President फ्रैंकलिन D. Roosevelt to the yalta सम्मेलन in फ़रवरी 1945, and was subsequently प्रयुक्त for another दो सालो by अध्यक्ष Harry S. Truman.
the `` Air Force एक '' कॉल sign was निर्मित after a 1953 incident during जिससे a flight carrying President Dwight D. आइज़नहावर entered the वही airspace as a commercial airline flight using the वही कॉल sign.
Several aircraft have been used as एयर फ़ोर्स एक चूंकि the creation of the presidential fleet, including two बोइंग 707s introduced in the 1960s और 1970s, क्रमशः ; since 1990, the अध्यक्षीय fleet has consisted of two Boeing VC-25As – specifically विन्यस्त, highly customized Boeing 747-200B series aircraft.
The Air Force is looking into replacing the two VC-25 aircraft with तीन बदलना वायुयान beginning in 2017.
a wedding वर्षगांठ is the anniversary of the तिथि a विवाह took place.
Traditional names exist for most of उन्हें : लिये उदाहरण, 50 सालो of marriage is called a `` golden wedding वर्षगांठ '' or बस a `` सुनहरी वर्षगांठ ''.
A scanner with Duplexing Automatic दस्तावेज़ Feeder.
in multifunction or all-in-one printers, fax machines, photocopiers and scanners, an स्वचालित document feeder or ADF is a विशेषता जिससे takes several पृष्ठों and फ़ीड्स the paper one पेज at a समय into a scanner or कॉपियर, allowing the user to scan, and thereby नक़ल, print, or fax, multiple-page दस्तावेज़ without having to हस्तचालित बदलें each page.
सबसे copiers allow scanning on the फ्लैटबेड or platen ( the `` कांच '' ) or through a document फीडर.
the विशाल majority of fax machines have an ADF, allowing the unattended sending of multi-page faxes.
Due to the ubiquity of adf in fax machines, some fax machine स्वामी उपयोग the fax machine as a scanner, faxing multi-page दस्तावेज़ to themselves.
दस्तावेज़ feeders are वर्णित by speed, in pages प्रति मिनट or ppm, and क्षमता, usually in a range इससे 10 sheets to 200.
There are दो kinds of document feeders सक्षम of two-sided ( duplex ) स्कैनिंग : a reversing स्वचालित document फीडर or RADF scans one side of a पेज, तब flips it और scans the other पक्ष.
A duplexing automatic दस्तावेज़ फीडर or DADF scans both sides in one pass.
the लाभ of the dadf is faster गति लिये two-sided originals.
RADFs and dadfs are रेटेड in बिंब per मिनट ( IPM ), the number of sides they can स्कैन प्रत्येक minute.
मेला पार्क is a recreational और educational complex located in डलास, Texas ( यूएसए ).
The complex is registered as a डलास लैंडमार्क, नेशनल Historic Landmark और is घर to nine संग्रहालय, छह performance facilities, a लैगून, और the largest फेरिस wheel in उत्तर अमेरिका.
अनेक of the इमारतें on the complex were constructed for the Texas Centennial exposition in 1936 जिससे drew over छह लाख विज़िटर.
Most of the इमारतें निर्मित for the exposition still survive and it is पहचाना as a significant example of Art Deco architecture.
Fair पार्क रै been designated a Great Place in America by the American नियोजन Association.
the अमरीकी नियोजन Association ( apa ) “is an स्वतंत्र, not-for-profit शैक्षणिक संगठन that provides leadership in the development of vital communities.”
The Great स्थान in अमरीकी program helps to celebrate areas साथ “exemplary अक्षर, विशेषता, and planning.”
Being designated as a Great प्लेस in America, मेला Park was एक of only ten शहरों chosen in 2011.
San Jose ( ; स्पेनी : St. Joseph ) is the third-largest city in कैलिफ़ोर्निया, the tenth-largest in the U.S., और the काउंटी seat of Santa Clara काउंटी जिससे is स्तिथ at the southern समाप्त of San फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी.
सैन Jose is the largest नगर within सिलिकॉन Valley, जिससे is a प्रमुख घटक of the greater सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल, a region of 8.4 million लोगों and the पांचवां largest महानगर क्षेत्रफल ( सीएसए ) in the United राज्य.
it is the largest city in Northern California.
San जोस was संस्थापित on November 29, 1777, as El Pueblo de सैन José de Guadalupe, the पहला civilian कस्बा in the Spanish colony of Nueva California, जिससे बाद became alta California.
The city परोसा as a farming जातियाँ to support स्पेनी military installations at San फ्रांसिस्को and Monterey.
When California gained statehood in 1850, San Jose परोसा as इसके पहला capital.
After more than 150 सालो as a छोटी खेती नगर, San Jose and the surrounding Santa Clara Valley became the last ( and largest ) contiguous area of अविकसित जमीन surrounding the सैन Francisco Bay.
San जोस experienced increased demand for housing from soldiers और veterans returning from World War II.
सैन Jose then continued इसके आक्रामक विस्तार दौरान the 1950s and 1960s by annexing more land क्षेत्रफल.
The rapid growth of the high-technology and electronics industries further त्वरित the transition इससे an agricultural center, to an urbanized महानगर क्षेत्रफल.
By the 1990s, सैन Jose 's location भीतर the booming लोकल प्रौद्योगिकी industry earned the नगर its nickname, Capital of Silicon Valley.
San Jose अभी maintains वैश्विक नगर status and is the largest city in the San फ्रांसिस्को Bay क्षेत्रफल in terms of population, जमीन area, और industrial development.
the u.S. Census ब्यूरो reported the population of the नगर to be 945,942 as of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
as of अप्रैल 2013, the अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी of San जोस थी 984,000.
San Jose, along with the Santa Clara Valley, अनुभवी about half a सदी of spectacular suburban sprawl, with characteristics of intense शहरी समान to the Los एंजिल्स area of Southern कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
the city रै लिया definite कदम to avoid becoming `` L.A. उत्तर ''.
However, the sprawl in सैन जोस is बदतर than in Los एंजिल्स by उपायों ऐसे as जनसांख्यिकी density and पब्लिक पारगमन सुरक्षा, investment, and ridership.
Europe depicted by antwerp cartographer अब्राहम ortelius in 1595
the history of यूरोपीय covers the people inhabiting the European continent since it थी पहला populated in प्रागैतिहासिक times to उपस्थित, with the first Homo sapiens arriving between 45,000 and 25,000 BC.
The earliest settlers to Prehistoric यूरोपीय came during the paleolithic era.
The arrival of कृषि around 7000 bc ushered in the neolithic age.
पाषाणकालीन Europe lasted लिये 4000 years, overlapping with metal-using संस्कृतियों कि gradually स्प्रेड throughout the महाद्वीप.
Technological अग्रिम दौरान the prehistoric age tended to arrive from the मध्य ईस्ट, spreading धीरे to the northwest.
Some of the best-known सभ्यताओं of प्रागैतिहासिक Europe यहूद मिनोआई and माइसीनियाई, जिससे flourished during the Bronze आयु until they collapsed in a short काल of time around 1200 bc.
The काल ज्ञात as शास्त्रीय antiquity began with the rise of the city-states of प्राचीन Greece.
यूनानी influence पहुँचे its zenith under the expansive empire of सिकंदर the ग्रेट, spreading throughout Asia.
Northern and पश्चिमी यूरोपीय were वर्चस्व by the la tène संस्कृति, a precursor to the Celts.
रोम, a छोटी city-state traditionally संस्थापित in 753 bc, होता grow to become the Roman Republic in 509 BC और would सफल यूनानी संस्कृति as the dominant भूमध्यसागरीय सभ्यता.
The events of the नियम of Julius Caesar led to reorganization of the Republic into the रोमन साम्राज्य.
The साम्राज्य थी बाद विभाजित by the सम्राट diocletian into the Western and पूर्वी empires.
दौरान the बाद years of the Roman Empire, the Germanic peoples of northern Europe grew in शक्ति and repeated हमले led to the Fall of the Western Roman Empire in AD 476, a तिथि which traditionally marks the end of the classical period और the start of the मध्य Ages.
During the Middle Ages, the Eastern रोमन साम्राज्य survived, though modern इतिहासकारों refer to this state as the Byzantine Empire.
in Western Europe, Germanic peoples moved into positions of power in the remnants of the former Western रोमन Empire and स्थापित kingdoms and empires of उनके own.
Of all of the Germanic peoples, the Franks would वृद्धि to a position of Hegemony over पश्चिमी यूरोपीय, the frankish साम्राज्य reaching its peak under शारलेमेन around AD 800.
francia was divided into अनेक भाग ; West francia होता evolve into the Kingdom of France, while ईस्ट francia would evolve into the Holy Roman साम्राज्य, a precursor to modern जर्मनी.
The अंग्रेजों Isles यहूद the site of several large-scale migrations.
Native सेल्टिक peoples था महरूम marginalized दौरान the काल of रोमन ब्रिटेन, और when the romans abandoned the अंग्रेजों Isles during the 400s, लहरें of germanic Anglo-Saxons migrated to southern ब्रिटेन and स्थापित a series of petty kingdoms in what होता eventually develop into the किंगडम of England by ad 927.
दौरान this period, the किंगडम of Poland and Kingdom of Hungary ( 1000–1945 ) यहूद व्यवस्थित as खूब.
the Viking आयु, a period of migrations of scandinavian peoples, वर्चस्व the काल from the लेट 700s to the मध्य 1000s.
Chief among the viking राज्य was the Empire of cnut the Great, a Danish नेता जो होता become किंग of England, Denmark, and Norway.
The Normans, a viking people जो settled in Northern France and संस्थापित the duchy of Normandy, would have a significant impact on अनेक भाग of यूरोपीय, from the Norman conquest of इंग्लैण्ड to Southern Italy और सिसिली.
another Scandinavian people, the Rus ' people, would go on to found Kievan Rus ', an जल्दी state जिससे was a precursor for the आधुनिक country of Russia.
as the Viking Age drew to a close, the काल known as the क्रूसेड, a श्रेणी of religiously-motivated military रिझाने originally intended to bring the Levant back into ईसाई rule, began.
अनेक Crusader states were founded in the पूर्वी Mediterranean.
These यहूद all short-lived.
the Crusaders होता have a profound प्रभाव on many parts of यूरोपीय.
Their Sack of Constantinople in 1204 brought an abrupt end to the बीज़ान्टिन Empire.
Extinct dog breeds is a compilation of श्वान breeds कि have become विलुप्त.
Wii Speak is a माइक्रोफोन accessory for निन्टेंडो 's Wii वीडियो game कंसोल.
Connected to the console via USB, the यंत्र can be लगाई near the video प्रदर्शक, allowing आवाज़ chat to be conducted with the संपूर्ण रूम.
The यंत्र features an led to indicate when the microphone is क्रियाशील.
वी बोलो थी announced at निन्टेंडो 's 2008 E3 media drug.
It थी released separately और bundled साथ एनिमल क्रासिंग : नगर Folk on November 16, 2008, in North अमेरिका, and थी released on दिसम्बर 5, 2008, in यूरोपीय.
the वी Speak accessory is succeeded by the embedded माइक्रोफोन on the Wii U 's GamePad controller.
Nissan Intelligent key®
a smart कुंजी is an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक access and प्राधिकरण प्रणाली which is available as an विकल्प or standard in several cars.
It थी पहला विकसित by Siemens in the mid-1990s and introduced by Mercedes-Benz अंतर्गत the name `` keyless Go '' in 1998 on the W220 S-Class following its डिज़ाइन patent दायर by daimler-benz on May 17, 1997.
Univisión ( ) is a Spanish-language टेलीविज़न network in the United States.
The network is primarily समर्पित लिये लैटिन American families who reside in the United राज्य.
It has the largest audience of Spanish-language television दर्शक in the संसार according to nielsen ratings.
Randy falco, ( CEO as of June 29, 2011 ) COO, has been in charge of the कम्पनी since the departure of Univision Communications अध्यक्ष and सीईओ Joe Uva in April 2010.
In recent years the network has reached पैरिटी with the U.S. 's five major English-language television networks, and is प्रायः a दमदार fifth, outranking the CW, with some fourth-place साप्ताहिक placings, और as of 2012, even first place rankings for individual कार्यक्रम over सब five अंग्रेज़ी संजाल due to the network 's consistent schedule of new telenovelas सब 52 weeks of the साल.
Univisión is headquartered in New York, and has its major studios, उत्पादन facilities, and operations in Doral, Florida, a उपनगरीय of Miami.
In 2009, another television studio was announced, univision Studios, to be निर्मित in doral.
Univision is उपलब्धियाँ on cable और उपग्रह in most of the देश, साथ लोकल stations in over 50 बाज़ार with विशाल हिस्पैनिक and लातीनी populations and a नेशनल केबल संजाल feed distributed in markets without either the availability or the माँग for a locally-based स्टेशन.
Most of ये stations air full local न्यूज और other local प्रोग्रामिंग in जोड to network shows, and in major markets ऐसे as Los Angeles, नई यॉर्क, and Miami the local newscasts carried by the संजाल 's owned-and-operated स्टेशन ( O & O ) stations are बराबर प्रतिस्पर्धी साथ उनके English-language counterparts ratings-wise.
Univisión was acquired on March 29, 2007 by a consortium led by Haim Saban 's saban Capital Group ( जो had previously owned the एंटिटी Saban Entertainment ), TPG Capital, L.P., Providence इक्विटी साझेदार, मैडिसन Dearborn साझेदार, और Thomas H. Lee Partners for $ 13.7 billion or $ 36.25 per share प्लस $ 1.4 billion in acquired कर्ज़.
the buyout बाएँ the कम्पनी साथ a debt स्तर of twelve times its annual cash प्रवाह, which was twice the norm in buyouts किया over the previous दो सालो.
Artist 's conception of a protoplanetary disk
The formation and of the Solar प्रणाली is अनुमानित to have begun 4.6 अरब सालो पहले with the gravitational पतन of a small भाग of a giant आणविक cloud.
सबसे of the collapsing mass collected in the centre, forming the Sun, जबकि the rest flattened into a protoplanetary डिस्क out of जिससे the ग्रह, moons, asteroids, and other छोटी सौर System bodies formed.
इस widely accepted model, ज्ञात as the nebular hypothesis, थी पहला developed in the 18th सदी by Emanuel Swedenborg, immanuel Kant, and pierre-simon लाप्लास.
Its subsequent विकास रै interwoven a किस्में of scientific disciplines including astronomy, physics, भूविज्ञान, and ग्रहीय science.
चूंकि the dawn of the space age in the 1950s और the discovery of extrasolar ग्रह in the 1990s, the मॉडल has महरूम both challenged और refined to खाता for नई observations.
The सौर प्रणाली रै विकसित considerably चूंकि इसके आरंभिक गठन.
अनेक moons have formed इससे circling discs of gas और dust around their parent planets, while अन्य moons are विचार to have formed independently and बाद been captured by उनके planets.
Still others, as the धरती 's Moon, may be the परिणाम of giant collisions.
Collisions between bodies have occurred continually up to the present day and have महरूम सेंट्रल to the evolution of the सौर प्रणाली.
The positions of the ग्रह प्रायः shifted, and planets have switched places.
इस planetary migration is अभी thought to have been responsible लिये much of the सौर System 's early evolution.
In roughly 5 billion years, the Sun होगा cool और expand outward अनेक times its वर्तमान व्यास ( becoming a red दानव ), पहले ढलाई off its outer layers as a planetary nebula and leaving पीछे a stellar remnant ज्ञात as a white dwarf.
In the दूर distant भविष्य, the gravity of passing stars will gradually reduce the Sun 's retinue of planets.
Some planets होगा be नष्ट, अन्य ejected into interstellar space.
ultimately, over the course of tens of billions of years, it is likely that the Sun होगा be left साथ none of the original bodies in कक्षा around it.
the Trial ( काफ्का 's असली German title :, later as, and ) is a novel लिखा by Franz Kafka in 1914 और 1915 but not published until 1925.
One of काफ्का 's best-known works, it tells the स्टोरी of a man गिरफ्तार और prosecuted by a रिमोट, inaccessible प्राधिकार, with the प्रकृति of his crime नाज़िल to neither उसे nor the reader.
Like काफ्का 's अन्य novels, the Trial was never समाप्त, हालांकि it does शामिल a अध्याय which brings the स्टोरी to an end.
क्युकी of this वहीँ are निश्चित inconsistencies जिससे exist within the अनोखा, such as असमानताओं in timing in addition to other discontinuities in narration.
After काफ्का 's मौत in 1924 उसके dost और literary executor Max Brod edited the text for publication by Verlag Die Schmiede.
the original पाण्डुलिपि is held at the Museum of Modern Literature, Marbach am Neckar, Germany.
in 1999, the book was सूचीबद्ध in le Mondes 100 Books of the Century and as no. 2 of the बेहतरीन German Novels of the Twentieth Century.
Lisa ऐनी Loeb ( born March 11, 1968 ) is an American singer-songwriter and अभिनेत्री.
She शुभारम्भ her career in 1994 साथ the सोंग, `` रहो ( I छूटी तुम ) ``, जिससे was शामिल in the फिल्मी Reality Bites.
She थी the पहला कलाकार to have a number one सिंगल in the United States जबकि नहीं signed to a recording contract.
Her पाँच studio CDs include her major label debut, the gold-selling tails and its follow-up, the Grammy-nominated, gold-selling पटाखा.
Loeb रै भी worked in film, television, voice-over कार्य और children’s recordings.
Loeb has appeared in two television series, dweezil & Lisa, a weekly culinary एडवेंचर for the Food Network and क्रमांक 1 सिंगल, a reality show on the e !
Network in 2006 focused on उसके quest for love, success, career, and family.
उसके children 's music शामिल the albums कैच the चंद्रमा ( 2003 ), और शिविर लिसा ( 2008 ).
Her पहला संयुक्त children 's book and album Lisa Loeb 's Silly Sing-Along : The निराशाजनक Pancake and Other Zany गीतों was published in 2011.
In 2010 वो founded the Lisa Loeb चश्मा संग्रहण, which is based on her अपना designs.
the कोट of arms of the State of नई जर्सी includes:
a shield with तीन plows emblazoned, representative of New Jersey 's agricultural tradition.
A forward-facing नाईट 's हेल्मेट.
A घोड़ा 's head as the crest of the helmet.
The मादा figures स्वतंत्रता और Ceres, representative of the राज्य 's motto ( see next item ).
Liberty is holding a स्टाफ supporting a `` liberty कैप `` ; Ceres is holding an overflowing cornucopia.
The streamer at the foot of the emblem contains the राज्य motto of New जर्सी, `` स्वतंत्रता and समृद्धि '', और the year of statehood, 1776.
It थी originally designed by Pierre यूजीन du simitiere in 1777 और थी modified slightly in 1928.
The seal is the सेंट्रल मोटिफ in the ध्वज of नई Jersey and the ग्रेट Seal of the राज्य of New जर्सी.
the Coat of arms contains a horse 's head.
A helmet प्रर्दशित कि नई Jersey governs itself तदनुसार और तीन plows on a shield referring to the राज्य 's agriculture परंपरा, giving it the nickname `` Garden State ''.
The two देवियाँ represent the State motto, `` Liberty and समृद्धि ''.
स्वतंत्रता is on the बाएँ.
She is holding a staff with a स्वतंत्रता कैप on it, और the शब्द liberty underneath her.
the देवी on the right is Ceres, goddess of कृषि.
वो is holding a cornucopia with समृद्धि लिखा below उसके.
according to the minutes of the नई Jersey General सभा for कूच 11, 1896, the date in which the सभा officially approved the flag as the state emblem, the buff रंग is due indirectly to George Washington, who had ordered on अक्तूबर 2, 1779, that the वर्दी coats of the नई Jersey Continental Line be dark ( Jersey ) ब्लू, साथ buff facings.
Buff-colored facings had until then been reserved only for his own uniform and those of अन्य महाद्वीपीय सेनापतियों और उनके aides.
Then, on फ़रवरी 28, 1780, the महाद्वीपीय युद्ध Officers in Philadelphia निर्देशित that the uniform coat facings of all regiments were to be the same as the background रंग of the regiments ' state flag.
the मुहर is वर्णित in New Jersey statute Title 52, §2-1:
`` we Can Work It Out '' is a सोंग by the Beatles, written by पॉल McCartney और जॉन लेनन.
it was released as a `` double a-sided `` single with `` Day tripper ``, the first समय both पहलू of a सिंगल were so designated in an initial रिलीज.
Both गीतों were recorded दौरान the Rubber Soul sessions.
The song is an उदाहरण of Lennon–McCartney सहयोग at a गहराई that happened तभी rarely after वे लिखा the hit singles of 1963.
This song, `` A Day in the Life ``, `` Baby, तुम 're a समृद्ध man `` and `` i 've मिला a अहसास ``, are among the notable अपवाद.
As a चिकित्सा diagnosis, pedophilia or paedophilia is a psychiatric disorder in व्यक्तियों 16 years of age or older typically characterized by a प्राथमिक or exclusive यौन interest toward prepubescent children ( generally age 11 years or younger, हालांकि specific diagnosis criteria for the विकार extends the cut-off पाइंट for prepubescence to आयु 13 ).
an adolescent who is 16 years of आयु or older must be at तनिक five years older than the prepubescent child before the आकर्षण can be diagnosed as pedophilia.
The term has a दायरा of definitions, as मिला in psychiatry, मनोविज्ञान, the देशी, और law enforcement.
the अंतरराष्ट्रीय वर्गीकरण of Diseases ( ICD ) defines pedophilia as a `` disorder of adult personality और आचरण '' in जिससे there is a sexual वरीयता लिये children of prepubertal or early pubertal आयु.
According to the निदान और सांख्यिकीय Manual of दिमागी Disorders ( dsm ), it is a paraphilia in which adults or adolescents 16 years of age or older have intense and recurrent यौन urges towards and fantasies परिचय prepubescent children that वे have either acted on or which cause them distress or interpersonal difficulty.
In popular usage, pedophilia means any यौन interest in children or the अधिनियम of child sexual गाली, often termed `` pedophilic behavior ''.
For example, The अमरीकी Heritage stedman 's चिकित्सा शब्दकोष states, `` pedophilia is the act or काल्पनिक on the part of an adult of engaging in sexual कार्यकलाप with a child or children. ''
This common उपयोग application भी extends to the यौन ब्याज in and यौन सम्पर्क साथ pubescent or post-pubescent minors.
Researchers recommend that ये imprecise uses be avoided क्युकी हालांकि people who कमिट चाइल्ड sexual गाली commonly exhibit the disorder, कुछ offenders do नहीं meet the नैदानिक निदान मानकों लिये pedophilia और these standards pertain to prepubescents.
additionally, not सब pedophiles दरअसल कमिट such abuse.
Pedophilia was first formally recognized and नामित in the late 19th century.
A significant amount of शोध in the area has taken place चूंकि the 1980s.
Although mostly documented in मेन, वहीँ हैं also महिलाओं who प्रदर्शनी the विकार, और researchers assume available estimates underrepresent the true number of मादा pedophiles.
no इलाज़ for pedophilia रै been विकसित, but वहीँ are therapies कि can reduce the incidence of a person committing child sexual abuse.
in the United राज्य, following Kansas v. Hendricks, sex अपराधियों जो are diagnosed साथ certain दिमागी विकार, particularly pedophilia, can be subject to indefinite सिविल commitment, अंतर्गत various state laws ( generically called SVP कानून ) and the federal Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety अधिनियम of 2006.
At उपस्थित, the exact causes of pedophilia have नहीं been conclusively established.
Research suggests कि pedophilia may be correlated with several different neurological abnormalities, और often co-exists साथ other personality disorders और मनोवैज्ञानिक pathologies.
in the contexts of forensic मनोविज्ञान and विधि enforcement, a variety of typologies have महरूम सुझाया to categorize pedophiles according to behavior and motivations.
जूलियो César chávez ( born जूलियो césar Chávez gonzález on July 12, 1962 ) is a retired मैक्सिकन professional boxer.
Chávez is माना by अनेक लोगों for उनके खेल statistics the greatest fighter ever to come आउट of मैक्सिको.
he is a six-time world champion in तीन weight divisions, and for several years he थी considered one of the best pound-for-pound boxer in the संसार.
In a career कि spanned over 25 सालो, Chávez जीती five world शीर्षक in three weight divisions : wbc Super Featherweight in 1984, WBA Lightweight in 1987, wbc lightweight in 1988, wbc Light Welterweight in 1989, IBF Light welterweight in 1990, और WBC Light welterweight in 1994.
He holds records लिये most कामयाब consecutive defenses of संसार titles ( 27 ), most title झगड़े ( 37 ), सबसे title-fight victories ( 31 ) and he is बाद जो लुई साथ ( 23 ) लिये सबसे title defenses won by नॉकआउट ( 21 ).
chávez also has the longest undefeated streak in मुक्केबाज़ी history, 13 सालो.
उसके रिकार्ड was 89-0-1 going into his first घाटा to फ्रेंकी रान्डेल and था an 87 लड़ो win streak जबतक his `` चित्रण '' साथ Whitaker.
Julio César Chávez थी known for his बकाया punching power, devastating देह आक्रमण, remarkably strong chin and the relentless stalking of उसके opponents.
he बाँधने # 24 on ईएसपीएन 's 50 Greatest मुक्केबाज of All समय.
on दिसम्बर 7, 2010, he was inducted in the prestigious International मुक्केबाज़ी हॉल of Fame for the Class of 2011.
he is the पिता of prospect ओमर Chávez and पूर्व WBC middleweight Champion जूलियो César chávez, jr.
`` Selektion `` on the judenrampe, Auschwitz, may/june 1944.
to be sent to the right meant slave मजदूर ; to the बाएँ, the gas कक्ष.
This चित्र shows the आगमन of हंगेरियाई यहूदियों from carpatho-ruthenia, many of them from the berehov ghetto.
The photographer was Ernst hofmann or Bernhard Walter of the SS. चित्र सौजन्य of Yad Vashem
the Holocaust ( from the Greek ' : hólos, `` whole '' और kaustós, `` जले '' ) भी known as the Shoah ( Hebrew :, hashoah, `` catastrophe '' ; यहूदी :, churben or hurban, from the Hebrew for `` destruction '' ), was the द्रव्यमान murder or नरसंहार of approximately छह लाख Jews दौरान World युद्ध II, a कार्यक्रम of systematic state-sponsored murder by Nazi Germany, led by एडोल्फ हिटलर और the Nazi Party, throughout german-occupied territory.
of the nine million Jews who had resided in यूरोपीय before the Holocaust, approximately two-thirds were killed.
Over one लाख Jewish children यहूद killed in the Holocaust, as were लगभग two million Jewish महिलाओं and three million Jewish men.
A संजाल of over 40,000 facilities in जर्मनी and german-occupied territory यहूद used to concentrate, थाम, and kill यहूदियों and other पीड़ितों.
कुछ विद्वानों argue that the द्रव्यमान हत्या of the Romani and लोगों with disabilities should be शामिल in the परिभाषा, और some use the आम noun `` holocaust '' to describe अन्य Nazi mass हत्याएं, सहित those of सोवियत बंदियों of युद्ध, Polish और सोवियत civilians, और homosexuals.
Recent estimates based on figures obtained since the पतन of the Soviet Union indicates some टेन to eleven million civilians और बंदियों of war were intentionally murdered by the नाजी शासन.
the persecution and नरसंहार were carried आउट in stages.
Various laws to remove the Jews इससे civil समाज, most prominently the Nuremberg Laws, यहूद enacted in जर्मनी years before the outbreak of संसार War II.
विशेषज्ञता शिविरों यहूद स्थापित in which inmates यहूद subjected to slave मजदूर जबतक वे died of exhaustion or disease.
Where Germany conquered नई territory in पूर्वी Europe, specialized इकाई पुकारा einsatzgruppen murdered Jews और political opponents in mass shootings.
The occupiers required Jews and Romani to be confined in overcrowded ghettos before होने transported by freight ट्रैन to extermination शिविरों where, if they survived the यात्रा, most were systematically killed in gas chambers.
Every भुजा of जर्मनी 's अफसरशाही was involved in the लोजिस्टिक्स that led to the genocides, turning the Third Reich into what one holocaust विद्वान has called `` a genocidal राज्य ''.
4-H in the संयुक्त States is a youth संगठन administered by the नेशनल संस्थान of खाना and Agriculture of the United States Department of कृषि ( USDA ), with the मिशन of `` engaging युवावस्था to reach their fullest potential while advancing the field of युवावस्था विकास. ''
the name represents four personal विकास areas of फ़ोकस for the संगठन : head, heart, हैंड्स, and स्वास्थ्य.
the organization has over 6.5 लाख members in the United States, इससे आयु five to twenty-one, in लगभग 90,000 clubs.
The लक्ष्य of 4-H is to develop नागरिकता, leadership, जिम्मेदारी और जीवन कौशल of युवावस्था through experiential learning programs और a धनात्मक युवावस्था development दृष्टिकोण.
Though typically thought of as an agriculturally focused संगठन as a result of इसके history, 4-H आज focuses on citizenship, healthy living, विज्ञान, अभियान्त्रिकी, और technology कार्यक्रम.
Today, 4-H और सम्बन्धित कार्यक्रम exist in over eighty countries around the संसार ; the organization और administration varies from country to country.
Each of these कार्यक्रम operates independently, but cooperatively through अंतरराष्ट्रीय exchanges, वैश्विक शिक्षा कार्यक्रम, and संचार.
The 4-H motto is `` To मेक the बेहतरीन बेहतर '', while its slogan is `` सीख by doing '' ( sometimes written as `` Learn to do by doing '' ).
the national ध्वज of Chile, consists of दो गैरबराबरी horizontal bands of white and red and a ब्लू square the वही height as the white band in the कैण्टन, which bears a white five-pointed star in the center.
It was adopted on 18 अक्तूबर 1817.
The chilean ध्वज is भी known in स्पेनी as la Estrella Solitaria ( The Lone स्टार ).
The star represents a मार्गदर्शिका to progress and honor ; blue symbolizes the आसमान और the Pacific समंदर, श्वेत is लिये the snow-covered andes, and रेड स्टैंड लिये the blood spilled to achieve independence.
According to the epic poem La araucana, the colors यहूद निकला इससे those इससे the ध्वज flown by the mapuche during the Arauco War.
`` ध्वज दिन '' is held each year on the नवीं of जुलाई to commemorate the 77 soldiers who died in the 1882 बैटल of La Concepción.
पीढी y, also ज्ञात as the Millennial पीढी, is the जनसांख्यिकी दल following पीढी x.
There हैं no precise तिथियाँ for जब पीढी Y starts and ends.
Commentators use beginning birth तिथियाँ from the latter 1970s, or इससे the early 1980s to the जल्दी 2000s.
the Torches of नीरो, by henryk siemiradzki.
According to tacitus, नीरो targeted Christians as those responsible for the fire.
The ग्रेट आग of Rome ( ) was an शहरी fire कि occurred beginning 19 July ad 64.
वर्जिनिया ( ), officially the Commonwealth of Virginia, is a u.S. state located in the South अटलांटिक प्रदेश of the United States.
Virginia is nicknamed the `` बूढ़ा डोमिनियन '' and the `` Mother of राष्ट्रपतियों '' बाद the आठ U.S. presidents born वहीँ.
the भूगोल और जलवायु of the Commonwealth are shaped by the Blue Ridge Mountains और the chesapeake खाड़ी, which provide habitat लिये much of its फ्लोरा and fauna.
The capital of the Commonwealth is रिचमंड ; and Virginia बीच is the most populous city.
फेयरफैक्स County is the most populous राजनैतिक subdivision.
The wealthiest is Loudoun County.
The राष्ट्रमंडल 's जनसांख्यिकी is over आठ लाख.
The क्षेत्रफल 's history begins साथ several indigenous groups, सहित the Powhatan.
In 1607 the लंदन Company स्थापित the Colony of वर्जिनिया as the first permanent New संसार अंग्रेज़ी उपनिवेश.
Slave labor and the land acquired from displaced Native American tribes प्रत्येक निभाई a significant role in the colony 's early politics और plantation अर्थव्यवस्था.
Virginia थी one of the 13 Colonies in the American क्रान्ति and joined the Confederacy in the American Civil War, during which Richmond was made the confederate capital and वर्जिनिया 's northwestern काउंटी seceded to form the राज्य of West Virginia.
हालांकि the Commonwealth was अंतर्गत रूढ़िवादी single-party rule for nearly a century following Reconstruction, both प्रमुख national parties हैं प्रतिस्पर्धी in modern वर्जिनिया.
The वर्जिनिया General Assembly is the oldest legislature in the पश्चिमी Hemisphere.
the state सरकारी रै महरूम repeatedly क्रमित सबसे effective by the Pew Center on the States.
It is unique in how it treats cities और counties equally, manages लोकल सड़कें, and prohibits its राज्यपालों इससे सेवारत consecutive शर्तें.
वर्जिनिया 's अर्थव्यवस्था has many sectors : agriculture in the Shenandoah Valley ; संघीय एजेंसियों in Northern Virginia, including the मुख्यालय of the विभाग of Defense and CIA ; and military सुविधाएं in Hampton Roads, the साईट of the region 's प्रमुख seaport.
वर्जिनिया 's पब्लिक schools और many कॉलेजों and universities have contributed to growing मीडिया और technology sectors.
As a result, कंप्यूटर chips have become the state 's leading export.
Windows फिल्म Maker ( formerly ज्ञात as Windows सजीव फिल्म Maker, codenamed sundance ) is a फ्रीवेयर वीडियो संपादन तन्त्र by Microsoft.
It is a भाग of Windows अनिवार्य software suite और offers the ability to बनाएँ and संपादन वीडियो as well as to publish them on skydrive, Facebook, YouTube, और Flickr.
`` Brenda 's मिला a Baby '' is the सोलो debut सिंगल by Tupac shakur, और tenth track from his debut album, 2pacalypse Now.
the सोंग, जिससे सुविधाएँ R & b singer डेव Hollister, is परिचय a twelve year-old लड़की named ब्रेंडा जो lives in a ghetto, has a baby, and is incapable of supporting it.
the song explores the समस्या of टीन pregnancy और its effect on the young माताओं और उनके families.
Like अनेक of shakur 's songs, `` Brenda 's Got a baby '' draws इससे the plight of the impoverished.
using Brenda to represent यंग माताओं in general, Shakur criticises the कम level of support from the baby 's पिता, the government, और समाज in सामान्य.
shakur wrote the song when he read a समाचारपत्र आलेख परिचय a twelve-year-old girl who got गर्भवती इससे her cousin और, because वो did नहीं want उसके अभिभावक to जान परिचय the baby, threw it in a कचरा can.
the official लोगो of पोकीमॉन लिये its international रिलीज ; `` Pokémon '' is short for the original Japanese शीर्षक of `` Pocket Monsters ''.
is a media franchise published and स्वामित्व by Japanese वीडियो game company Nintendo और created by सातोशी Tajiri in 1996.
originally released as a जोड़ी of interlinkable Game Boy role-playing video games developed by Game freak, पोकीमॉन रै चूंकि become the second-most successful और lucrative वीडियो game-based media franchise in the संसार, पीछे तभी निन्टेंडो 's own मारियो franchise.
Pokémon properties have चूंकि been merchandised into anime, manga, व्यापार cards, toys, किताबे, और other मीडिया.
The मताधिकार celebrated in 2006, और, संचयी sales of the video games ( सहित home console संस्करण, such as the `` Pikachu '' निन्टेंडो 64 ) have पहुँचे more than 200 लाख नक़ल.
in November 2005, 4Kids Entertainment, which had प्रबंधित the non-game related लाइसेंसिंग of पोकीमॉन, घोषित that it था agreed नहीं to नवीनीकृत the Pokémon प्रतिनिधित्व agreement.
पोकीमॉन USA inc. ( now the पोकीमॉन कम्पनी International ), a subsidiary of Japan 's Pokémon Co., now oversees सब Pokémon लाइसेंसिंग बाहर of Asia.
The नाम पोकीमॉन is the romanized संकुचन of the Japanese brand.
the पद पोकीमॉन, in जोड to referring to the पोकीमॉन मताधिकार itself, also collectively refers to the 649 fictional species that have made दिखावे in Pokémon मीडिया as of the release of the fifth पीढी titles Pokémon ब्लैक 2 and श्वेत 2 ; with the upcoming रिलीज of Pokémon X and Y, 6 new Pokémon have महरूम प्रदर्शित in promotions लिये the games.
`` पोकीमॉन '' is identical in दोनो the singular and plural, as is each individual प्रजाति name ; it is grammatically correct to कह `` one पोकीमॉन '' और `` many Pokémon '', as well as `` एक Pikachu `` और `` अनेक pikachu ''.
Cover of the first edition of the publication दादा by Tristan Tzara ; ज्यूरिख, 1917
दादा ( ) or dadaism was an art movement of the यूरोपीय avant-garde in the early 20th century.
अनेक अर्जी Dada began in ज्यूरिख, Switzerland in 1916, spreading to Berlin shortly thereafter but the ऊँचाई of New यॉर्क Dada थी the साल पहले in 1915.
to quote डोना Budd 's the Language of आर्ट Knowledge, दादा was born आउट of ऋणात्मक प्रतिक्रिया to the horrors of World युद्ध I.
This international गति थी begun by a समूह of artist and poets संबद्ध साथ the Cabaret Voltaire in Zurich.
Dada rejected reason and logic, prizing nonsense, irrationality और intuition.
The origin of the name दादा is unclear ; some believe कि it is a nonsensical word.
अन्य maintain कि it originates इससे the रोमानियाई artists Tristan Tzara and Marcel janco 's frequent उपयोग of the words da, da, अर्थ यस, yes in the रोमानियाई भाषा.
Another theory says that the name `` Dada '' came during a meeting of the समूह when a paper चाकू stuck into a french-german शब्दकोष happened to point to 'dada ', a French word लिये 'hobbyhorse '.
The movement primarily involved visual कला, literature, poetry, art manifestoes, art theory, theatre, and graphic design, और concentrated its anti-war politics through a rejection of the prevailing मानकों in आर्ट through anti-art सांस्कृतिक works.
In जोड to होने anti-war, Dada थी भी anti- बुर्जुआ and था राजनैतिक affinities with the radical बाएँ.
Dada activities included public महफिलों, demonstrations, and प्रकाशन of art/literary journals ; passionate coverage of art, राजनीती, and culture were topics often discussed in a variety of मीडिया.
कुंजी figures in the movement included Hugo Ball, Emmy Hennings, Hans Arp, Raoul hausmann, हन्ना höch, योहानेस Baader, ट्रिस्टन tzara, Francis Picabia, Richard Huelsenbeck, Georg grosz, John Heartfield, Marcel Duchamp, Beatrice लकडी, कर्ट schwitters, and Hans Richter, among अन्य.
The गति influenced later styles जैसे the avant-garde और शहर music आंदोलनों, and groups सहित surrealism, Nouveau réalisme, pop art और fluxus.
दादा is the groundwork to abstract आर्ट and sound काव्य, a starting point लिये performance art, a prelude to postmodernism, an influence on पॉप art, a जश्न of antiart to be later embraced for anarcho-political uses in the 1960s and the movement that lay the foundation लिये Surrealism.
First trophic स्तर.
The पौधे in इस image, and the algae and phytoplankton in the lake, are primary निर्माता.
They take nutrients from the मृदा or the water, and manufacture their own खाना by photosynthesis, using energy इससे the sun.
the trophic स्तर of an सजीव is the position it occupies in a खाना कड़ी.
The word trophic गर्भाशयी from the Greek τροφή ( trophē ) referring to food or feeding.
a खाना कड़ी represents a succession of जीवों that eat another सजीव और are, in turn, eaten themselves.
the number of steps an organism is from the start of the chain is a measure of its trophic स्तर.
खाना जंजीरों प्रारंभ at trophic level 1 साथ primary निर्माता ऐसे as plants, move to herbivores at level 2, predators at स्तर 3 and typically finish साथ carnivores or apex predators at स्तर 4 or 5.
The path साथ the कड़ी can रूप either a one-way प्रवाह, or a food `` web. ''
ecological समुदायों साथ higher biodiversity रूप more complex trophic paths.
चार of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण domesticated रेशा moths.
Top to bottom : Bombyx mori, hyalophora cecropia, antheraea pernyi, Samia cynthia.
From Meyers konversations-lexikon ( 1885-1892 )
a silk-producing raspy cricket.
रेशा is a natural protein fibre, कुछ forms of जिससे can be woven into textiles.
The protein fibre of रेशा is composed मुख्यतः of fibroin and produced by certain insect लार्वे to form cocoons.
The best-known प्रकार of silk is प्राप्त from the cocoons of the larvae of the शहतूत silkworm bombyx mori reared in captivity ( sericulture ).
The shimmering रूप of रेशा is due to the triangular prism -like ढांचा of the रेशा fibre, which allows silk cloth to refract incoming light at अलग कोण, यूँ producing different रंगों.
silks are उत्पादित by several अन्य insects, but generally तभी the silk of शलभ caterpillars has been used लिये वस्त्र निर्माण.
वहीँ रै been some research into अन्य silks, which differ at the molecular स्तर.
Many silks are mainly produced by the लार्वे of insects undergoing complete metamorphosis, but some adult कीट ऐसे as webspinners produce रेशा, and कुछ कीट ऐसे as raspy crickets produce रेशा throughout उनके lives.
रेशा production भी occurs in कलापक्ष ( मधुमक्खियों, wasps, and ants ), silverfish, mayflies, thrips, leafhoppers, beetles, lacewings, fleas, उड़ता and midges.
Other प्रकार of सन्धिपाद produce रेशा, most notably various arachnids such as मकड़ियों ( see spider silk ).
Late Show with दाउद Letterman is an American late-night talk दिखाएँ hosted by David लेटरमैन on CBS.
the show debuted on August 30, 1993, and is उत्पादित by लेटरमैन 's production company, Worldwide Pants incorporated.
The show 's म्यूज़िक निदेशक और band-leader of the हाउस band, the सीबीएस ऑर्केस्ट्रा, is Paul Shaffer.
the सिर लेखक is Matt रॉबर्ट्स और the announcer is एलन kalter.
Of the प्रमुख U.S. late-night programs, Late Show बाँधने second in cumulative average दर्शक over समय और third in number of एपीसोड over समय.
The दिखाएँ leads अन्य late night shows in ad revenue with $ 271 million in 2009.
In most U.S. बाज़ार the show airs at 11:35 p.m. eastern/pacific समय, but is अंकित Monday through बुधवार at 4:30 p.m., और गुरुवार at 3:30 p.m and 6:00 p.m.
The दूसरी गुरुवार episode प्रायः airs on Friday of that सप्ताह.
In 2002, Late Show with दाउद लेटरमैन थी ranked No. 7 on TV Guide 's 50 महानतम tv shows of सब Time.
सीबीएस रै a अनुबंध साथ विश्वव्यापी Pants to continue the दिखाएँ through 2014 ; by तब, लेटरमैन होगा surpass Johnny Carson as the longest tenured late-night talk दिखाएँ host.
the Real Housewives of नारंगी County is an American reality documentary television program on ब्रावो, नियत in Orange County, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
It was the first The रियल housewives program in the श्रेणी.
the series is a voyeuristic dekh into the धनवान जीवनदान of these housewives, as they दूकान, मिलेंगी plastic surgery, गपशप, fight and live lavishly.
the वित्तीय crisis, the beginning of which coincided almost exactly with the first season 's broadcast, has since trimmed the housewives ' lifestyles साथ job losses, evictions, बंधक defaults, foreclosures, और वैवाहिक stress—all recorded in प्रगतिशील seasons of the show.
Cyberstalking is the use of the अंतरजाल or other इलेक्ट्रॉनिक means to stalk or harass an individual, a समूह of individuals, or an organization.
it may include the बनाना of false accusations or statements of fact ( as in defamation ), निगरानी, making threats, identity theft, damage to data or equipment, the solicitation of नाबालिग लिये sex, or महफ़िल information कि may be used to harass.
The definition of `` harassment '' जरूर meet the criterion that a reasonable व्यक्ति, in possession of the same सूचना, would regard it as sufficient to cause another उचित व्यक्ति distress.
cyberstalking is अलग from स्थानिक or offline stalking in that it occurs through the use of electronic communications प्रौद्योगिकी ऐसे as the internet.
However, it sometimes लीड to it, or is accompanied by it.
दोनो हैं criminal offenses.
cyberstalking साझा महत्वपूर्ण विशेषताएँ with offline stalking.
अनेक stalkers – ऑनलाइन or बंद – हैं प्रेरित by a desire to control their पीड़ितों.
A cyberstalker may be an ऑनलाइन stranger or a person whom the निशाना knows.
A cyberstalker may be anonymous और may solicit involvement of अन्य people online जो do नहीं even जान the target.
cyberstalking is a दण्ड ठोकर कि comes into play under राज्य anti-stalking laws, slander कानून, और उत्पीड़न कानून.
a cyberstalking conviction can result in a restraining order, परिवीक्षा, or भी दण्ड penalties विरूद्ध the assailant, including कारावास.
A business letter is usually प्रयुक्त when लिखने from एक company to another, or for पत्राचार between ऐसे संगठन and उनके ग्राहक, clients और other external parties.
the overall style of letter होगा निर्भर on the संबंध between the parties concerned.
वहीँ are many reasons to write a कारोबार अक्षर.
It could be to request direct सूचना or action इससे another पार्टी, to order आपूर्तियाँ from a supplier, to identify a गलती that was committed, to reply directly to a request, to apologize लिये a ग़लत or बस to convey goodwill.
Even आज, the कारोबार अक्षर is still very useful because it produces a permanent record, is गोपनीय, formal and delivers persuasive, well-considered संदेश.
tilapia ( ) is the common नाम लिये nearly a hundred species of cichlid मछली from the tilapiine cichlid tribe.
Tilapia are मुख्यतः freshwater मछली, inhabiting उथले streams, ponds, rivers और झीलों, and कम commonly मिला living in brackish जल.
historically, वे have been of major importance in कारीगर fishing in अफ़्रीकी and the Levant, and हैं of increasing महत्व in aquaculture.
Tilapia can become समस्यापूर्ण invasive species in new warm-water habitats, whether deliberately or accidentally introduced, but generally not in temperate climates due to their inability to survive in कूलर waters below about.
Turner & hooch is a 1989 comedy drama crime film starring Tom हैंक्स और Beasley the श्वान as the eponymous characters, टर्नर और Hooch respectively.
The फिल्मी also सितारों घोड़ी Winningham, Craig T. नेल्सन, and रेगिनाल्ड VelJohnson.
It थी directed by रोजर Spottiswoode ; the film थी originally slated to be directed by Henry Winkler, लकिन he was terminated due to `` creative differences ''.
It was co-written by Michael blodgett from Beyond the घाटी of the Dolls कीर्ति.
हालांकि k-9 ( with जेम्स belushi ) was released prior to this फिल्मी ( exactly तीन महीने पहले ), टर्नर & hooch became more popular और seemingly overshadowed its greater success, even हालांकि K-9 had a very similar प्लाट.
a पायलट for a Turner & hooch tv श्रेणी was made and ran as a part of The जादुई संसार of डिज़्नी.
इस is a list of israeli airports, sorted by स्थान.
Entrance to Ovda Airport
टर्मिनल 3 at बेन Gurion
प्लेन landing at be'er Sheva ( Teyman )
Eilat Airport
Adolf Hitler ( ; 20 April 1889 – 30 अप्रैल 1945 ) was an Austrian -born German politician and the leader of the नाजी पार्टी ( ( nsdap ) ; National Socialist जर्मनी मजदूर Party ).
he was chancellor of Germany from 1933 to 1945 और dictator of Nazi जर्मनी ( as führer und reichskanzler ) from 1934 to 1945.
Hitler was at the centre of Nazi Germany, संसार War ii in यूरोपीय, and the Holocaust.
Hitler was a सजा veteran of संसार War I.
he joined the German मजदूर ' पार्टी ( precursor of the NSDAP ) in 1919, and became leader of the nsdap in 1921.
In 1923, he attempted a coup d'état in Munich, ज्ञात as the Beer Hall Putsch.
The विफल तख्तापलट resulted in हिटलर 's imprisonment, during which time he wrote his memoir, mein कैम्फ ( My Struggle ).
बाद his release in 1924, हिटलर gained popular support by attacking the सन्धि of Versailles और promoting Pan-Germanism, antisemitism, और anti-communism साथ charismatic oratory and Nazi propaganda.
बाद his नियुक्ति as chancellor in 1933, he transformed the Weimar Republic into the Third Reich, a single-party तानाशाही based on the अधिनायकवादी and autocratic विचारधारा of नात्सीवाद.
हिटलर 's उद्देश्य थी to establish a New अनुक्रम of absolute Nazi German आधिपत्य in continental Europe.
to this समाप्त, उसके foreign and domestic policies had the aim of seizing Lebensraum ( `` जीना space '' ) लिये the germanic people.
He directed the rearmament of जर्मनी और the invasion of Poland by the Wehrmacht in सितंबर 1939, resulting in the outbreak of World War II in यूरोपीय.
Under Hitler 's नियम, in 1941 जर्मनी शक्तियां and उनके European allies occupied most of यूरोपीय and उत्तर Africa.
in 1943, Germany had महरूम forced onto the defensive and suffered a series of escalating defeats.
in the फाइनल days of the war, दौरान the Battle of Berlin in 1945, Hitler शादीशुदा उसके long-time partner, एवा braun.
On 30 April 1945, कम than two days later, the two committed आत्महत्या to avoid कैप्चर by the रेड Army, और उनके corpses यहूद burned.
Hitler 's aggressive foreign नीति is माना the main cause of the outbreak of संसार युद्ध II in Europe.
His antisemitic नीतियों और racially प्रेरित ideology resulted in the मौतों of at तनिक 5.5 million यहूदियों, और millions of other people deemed racially inferior.
thumb
A डोमेन नाम is an identification string that defines a फ्रेम of administrative स्वायत्तता, authority, or control on the अंतरजाल.
डोमेन names are formed by the नियम and प्रक्रियाओं of the Domain Name प्रणाली ( DNS ).
technically, any name registered in the DNS is a domain नाम.
Domain names are used in विभिन्न networking contexts and application-specific naming और addressing उद्देश्य.
in general, a domain नाम represents an अंतरजाल Protocol ( IP ) संसाधन, such as a personal computer used to अभिगम the अंतरजाल, a सर्वर computer hosting a web साईट, or the web site itself or कोई अन्य service communicated via the अंतरजाल.
Domain names are organized in अधीनस्थ levels ( subdomains ) of the DNS root domain, which is nameless.
The first-level set of domain names are the top-level domains ( TLDs ), including the generic top-level domains ( gtlds ), such as the prominent डोमेन com, info, जाल and org, और the country कोड top-level domains ( ccTLDs ).
नीचे these top-level डोमेन in the DNS पदानुक्रम are the second-level and third-level डोमेन names कि हैं typically खोलें for रिज़र्वेशन by end-users जो wish to connect local area networks to the Internet, create अन्य publicly accessible Internet resources or चलाएं web sites.
The पंजीकरण of ये domain names is प्रायः administered by domain name registrars जो sell their services to the public.
a fully योग्य domain name ( FQDN ) is a डोमेन नाम that is completely निर्दिष्ट in the hierarchy of the DNS, having no omitted भाग.
डोमेन names are usually written in लोअरकेस, although labels in the डोमेन नाम System हैं case-insensitive.
नाइट्रेट is a polyatomic ion with the molecular सूत्र no3− और a आणविक mass of 62.0049 g/mol. nitrates भी describe the सशुल्क functional समूह rono2.
These nitrate esters हैं a specialized class of explosives.
A wheat कटाई in idaho
This फ़ोटो from a 1921 ज्ञानकोष shows a ट्रैक्टर ploughing a क्रॉप field.
Agriculture is a major industry in the United States and the country is a जाल निर्यातक of खाना.
as of the last जनसांख्यिकी of कृषि in 2007, वहीँ were 2.2 लाख farms, covering an area of, an औसत of per farm.
Although agricultural कार्यकलाप occurs in सबसे राज्य, it is particularly concentrated in the vast expanse of चपटा, arable land known as the ग्रेट Plains, जिससे encompasses the central region of the स्वदेश.
The mpemba effect, named after Tanzanian छात्र Erasto mpemba, is the assertion कि warmer जल can फ्रीज तेज़ than colder water.
हालांकि वहीँ is anecdotal support for the effect, वहीँ is no agreement on exactly कया the effect is and under what circumstances it occurs.
There have been रिपोर्ट्स of similar phenomena चूंकि प्राचीन times, although साथ insufficient विवरण लिये the claims to be replicated.
the घटना seems contrary to thermodynamics, but a number of संभावित स्पष्टीकरण लिये the प्रभाव have महरूम proposed.
further investigations होगा need to decide on a precise definition of `` जमने '' and control a विशाल क्रमांक of starting पैरामीटर्स in order to confirm or explain the effect.
the Siamese (, ) is one of the first distinctly पहचाना breeds of Oriental बिल्ली.
the breed originated in थाईलैंड ( formerly known as Siam ), जहाँ they हैं one of several native breeds and हैं called wichian mat ( วิเชียรมาศ, a नाम meaning `` moon diamond '' ).
In the 20th century the siamese cat became one of the most popular breeds in Europe and North America.
Quality खाना centers ( QFC ) is a सुपरमार्केट chain based in Bellevue, वॉशिंगटन, with 64 stores in the puget Sound प्रदेश of वॉशिंगटन राज्य और in the Portland, ऑरेगॉन महानगर क्षेत्रफल.
in economics, the धन supply or money stock, is the total amount of मौद्रिक assets उपलब्धियाँ in an अर्थव्यवस्था at a specific समय.
There हैं अनेक तरीके to define `` money, '' but standard measures usually include currency in परिसंचरण and माँग जमा ( depositors ' easily accessed assets on the किताबे of वित्तीय संस्थानों ).
Money supply data are recorded and published, usually by the government or the central bank of the देश.
पब्लिक and निजी sector analysts have long monitored परिवर्तन in money सप्लाई because of इसके effects on the दाम level, महंगाई, the exchange rate and the कारोबार साईकिल.
कि relation between धन और prices is historically associated साथ the quantity theory of money.
There is दमदार अनुभवजन्य evidence of a सीधा relation between money-supply growth and long-term price inflation, at तनिक for रैपिड increases in the राशि of money in the economy.
कि is, a country such as ज़िम्बाब्वे which देखी rapid increases in its धन supply also saw रैपिड increases in कीमतें ( hyperinflation ).
इस is one reason for the रिलायंस on मौद्रिक policy as a अर्थात् of controlling inflation.
The nature of इस causal chain is the subject of contention.
Some शास्त अर्थशास्त्रियों argue that the धन supply is endogenous ( determined by the workings of the अर्थव्यवस्था, not by the central bank ) और that the स्त्रोत of महंगाई जरूर be found in the distributional structure of the अर्थव्यवस्था.
In जोड, those अर्थशास्त्रियों देखकर the central बैंको 's कंट्रोल over the धन supply as feeble say that there are दो कमजोर कड़ी between the विकास of the money supply और the महंगाई rate.
First, in the aftermath of a recession, when अनेक resources are underutilized, an बढ़ाएँ in the धन supply can cause a sustained बढ़ाएँ in रियल उत्पादन instead of inflation.
दूसरी, if the velocity of money, i.e., the ratio between नाममात्र GDP and money supply, changes, an increase in the धन supply could have either no effect, an अतिरंजित effect, or an unpredictable प्रभाव on the growth of नाममात्र GDP.
लोगो for IMAX.
Warren थिएटर IMAX cinema, Wichita, Kansas, यूएसए, 601 seats.
a comparison between 35 mm and 15/70 mm negative areas.
IMAX ( an abbreviation लिये चित्र Maximum ) is a गति picture film format और a नियत of cinema प्रक्षेप standards created by the Canadian company imax निगम.
IMAX has the capacity to record और display बिंब of far greater आकार and resolution than conventional film प्रणालियों.
चूंकि 2002, कुछ feature films have been converted ( or upgraded ) into IMAX स्वरूप लिये display in IMAX theatres और some have also महरूम partially शॉट in imax.
imax is the सबसे widely प्रयुक्त system लिये special-venue फिल्मी प्रस्तुतियों.
, there are 697 IMAX theatres in 52 countries.
आज 's Special is a Canadian children 's television show produced by क्लाइव VanderBurgh at TVOntario from 1981 to 1987.
it भी भागा on Nickelodeon और the Faith and Values channel/odyssey ( अभी the hallmark Channel ) as well as many pbs स्टेशन throughout the United राज्य.
it थी set in a department store, based on the flagship स्थान of the now defunct सिम्पसन 's in टोरंटो.
अनेक sequences for it यहूद shot at the Queen गली West and yonge Street store बाद घंटों.
Constitutionalism, in इसके most general meaning, is `` a complex of विचार, attitudes, और पैटर्न of बर्ताव elaborating the principle that the प्राधिकार of government गर्भाशयी from और is limited by a देह of fundamental विधि ''.
A राजनैतिक organization is संवैधानिक to the extent that it `` contain [ s ] institutionalized mechanisms of power control लिये the protection of the रूचि और liberties of the citizenry, including those that may be in the minority ``.
As described by political scientist और संवैधानिक scholar David fellman :
An ice-cream headache, also known as brain फ्रीज, cold-stimulus headache, or its given scientific name sphenopalatine ganglioneuralgia ( अर्थ `` तंत्रिका पीड़ा of the sphenopalatine गंडिका `` ), is a form of brief cranial पीड़ा or headache commonly संबद्ध साथ consumption ( विशेषकर जल्दी consumption ) of cold पेय or भोजन ऐसे as ice cream and ice चबूतरे.
it is caused by having something ठंडा touch the छत of the मुँह ( palate ), and is believed to परिणाम from a तंत्रिका response causing rapid constriction and swelling of blood vessels or a `` referring `` of पीड़ा इससे the छत of the मुँह to the head.
The rate of intake लिये cold भोजन has been पढ़ाई as a contributing factor.
There हैं people who can not अनुभव `` brain freeze '' or similar symptoms.
The पद ice-cream headache रै been in use चूंकि at least 31 January 1937, contained in a journal entry by रेबेका timbres प्रकाशित in the 1939 book We किया n't ask यूटोपिया : a Quaker family in सोवियत Russia.
The first published use of the पद brain फ्रीज, as it pertains to cold-induced headaches, was on 27 May 1991.
`` Auld Lang syne '' ( : note `` s '' बल्कि than `` z '' ) is a स्कॉट्स poem लिखा by रॉबर्ट burns in 1788 and नियत to the धुन of a परंपरागत folk song ( roud # 6294 ).
It is खूब known in many देशों, especially in the english-speaking world ; इसके traditional उपयोग होने to celebrate the start of the नई Year at the stroke of midnight.
By extension, it is also sung at funerals, graduations और as a farewell or समाप्ति to अन्य अवसरों.
the international Boy स्काउट youth movement, in अनेक देशों, uses it as a close to jamborees और other कृत्यों.
The सोंग 's Scots title may be अनूदित into अंग्रेज़ी वस्तुतः as `` old long चूंकि '', or more idiomatically, `` long long पहले '', `` दिनों gone by '' or `` old times ''.
नतीजतन `` लिये auld लैंग syne '', as it appears in the first line of the chorus, might be loosely अनूदित as `` for ( the sake of ) बूढ़ा times ''.
The phrase `` auld Lang syne '' is भी used in समान कविताएं by Robert Ayton ( 1570–1638 ), Allan Ramsay ( 1686–1757 ), and James वाटसन ( 1711 ) as well as older folk गीतों predating Burns.
मैथ्यू Fitt उपयोग the phrase `` in the days of auld लैंग syne '' as the समतुल्य of `` Once upon a time...
`` in his retelling of परी tales in the Scots language.
बेन schulz, खिलाड़ी of Leeroy जेनकींस at BlizzCon 2007
Leeroy जेनकींस, sometimes misspelled Leroy Jenkins और often elongated with numerous additional अक्षर, is an Internet meme नामित for a खिलाड़ी अक्षर created by Ben Schulz in blizzard entertainment 's mmorpg, World of Warcraft.
the character became popular due to a video of the game कि परिचालित around the अंतरजाल.
the phenomenon has since स्प्रेड परे the सीमाएँ of the गेमिंग जातियाँ into अन्य online और mainstream media.
ऑस्कर Grant थी fatally शॉट by बार्ट police अधिकारी Johannes mehserle in Oakland, California, United States, in the early morning hours of New Year 's दिन 2009.
responding to reports of a fight on a भीड़ खाड़ी Area रैपिड पारगमन train returning from San फ्रांसिस्को, BART Police officers detained ऑस्कर Grant और अनेक other यात्री on the मंच at the Fruitvale बार्ट स्टेशन.
Officer योहानेस Mehserle और another officer were restraining ग्रान्ट, जो थी सजदा and allegedly resisting गिरफ़्तार.
अधिकारी Mehserle stood and, according to witnesses, said : `` मिलेंगी वापस, I 'm gon na tase him. ''
Then mehserle खींचा his गन और shot ग्रान्ट एकबार in the वापस ; mehserle appeared दंग, put उसके हैंड्स to उसके सिर and exclaimed, `` oh, my God ! ''
During उसके court testimony, mehserle said कि Grant तब exclaimed, `` You shot me ! ''
ग्रान्ट turned out to be निहत्थे ; he थी pronounced मुर्दे the next morning at Highland Hospital in Oakland.
the events were captured on अनेक digital वीडियो and cell phone कैमरे.
The footage was disseminated to मीडिया outlets और to विभिन्न websites, where it थी watched millions of times.
the following दिनों saw both peaceful और हिंसक protests.
the shooting has महरूम variously labeled an involuntary manslaughter and a summary execution.
On जनवरी 13, alameda County prosecutors charged Mehserle with murder for the shooting.
He resigned उसके position and pleaded not guilty.
The trial began on June 10, 2010.
Michael rains, mehserle 's दण्ड रक्षा attorney, argued that mehserle mistakenly shot Grant साथ उसके pistol, intending to use उसके तासीर when he देखी ग्रान्ट reaching for his waistband.
Pretrial filings argue that उसके client did not कमिट first-degree murder और asked a लॉस एंजिल्स न्यायधीश to instruct the jury to limit its deliberations to either second-degree हत्या or acquittal.
Oakland सिविल अधिकारों attorney जॉन Burris दायर a $ 25 लाख wrongful मौत claim विरूद्ध BART on behalf of Grant 's परिवार.
on July 8, 2010, the jury returned its verdict : Mehserle थी found अपराधी of involuntary manslaughter and not अपराधी of second-degree murder और voluntary manslaughter.
Initial protests विरूद्ध the ruling यहूद शांतिपूर्वक organized ; लूटने, arson, destruction of प्रॉपर्टी, and छोटी riots broke आउट after dark.
Nearly 80 people यहूद eventually गिरफ्तार.
On Friday, जुलाई 9, 2010, the u.S. Justice विभाग opened a civil rights case against Mehserle ; the federal government can prosecute उसे independently लिये the वही act अंतर्गत the separate sovereigns exception to double jeopardy.
The Department of Justice होगा be working with the u.S. attorney 's दफ्तर in San फ्रांसिस्को and the FBI.
On नवम्बर 5, 2010, Mehserle थी sentenced to two सालो, ऋण time served.
he served his समय in the लॉस Angeles County Jail, occupying a निजी cell दूर from अन्य prisoners.
he थी released on June 13, 2011 and is now on parole.
प्रमुख representatives of the हार्लेम पुनर्जागरण.
The हार्लेम Renaissance was a cultural गति that spanned the 1920s.
at the time, it थी ज्ञात as the `` नई Negro गति '', named after the 1925 anthology by Alain locke.
Though it was केन्द्रित in the Harlem neighborhood of नई York City, अनेक french-speaking black writers from अफ़्रीकी and Caribbean colonies who lived in Paris यहूद भी influenced by the Harlem Renaissance.
The Harlem पुनर्जागरण is unofficially recognized to have spanned from about 1919 until the early or mid-1930s.
Many of its ideas lived on much longer.
the zenith of this `` flowering of Negro साहित्य '', as James weldon Johnson preferred to call the Harlem Renaissance, थी लगाई between 1924 ( the year that Opportunity : A जर्नल of नीग्रो Life hosted a पार्टी for black writers where अनेक श्वेत publishers यहूद in attendance ) and 1929 ( the year of the stock मार्केट crash and the beginning of the ग्रेट अवसाद ).
अफ़्रीकी States between 500 BCE and 1500 CE
Obelisk at temple of लक्सर, मिश्र.
c. 1200 bce.
African नाईट of Baguirmi in पूरा padded armour सूट.
the इतिहास of Africa begins with the प्रागितिहास of अफ़्रीकी and the emergence of होमो sapiens in East अफ़्रीकी, continuing into the present as a patchwork of विविध and politically विकासशील nation states.
Some early evidence of कृषि in Africa तिथियाँ from 16,000 bce, और metallurgy from about 4000 bce.
the recorded history of जल्दी civilization arose in Egypt, और later in Nubia, the Maghreb and the Horn of Africa.
दौरान the मध्य Ages, islam spread through the regions.
क्रासिंग the Maghreb और the Sahel, a major बीच of Muslim culture was Timbuktu.
कुछ notable pre-colonial राज्य and समाजों in Africa include the nok culture, Mali Empire, Ashanti Empire, Kingdom of mapungubwe, Kingdom of Sine, Kingdom of Saloum, किंगडम of baol, किंगडम of ज़िम्बाब्वे, Kingdom of Kongo, प्राचीन Carthage, Numidia, Mauretania, the Aksumite Empire, the ajuuraan राज्य और the adal सल्तनत.
इससे the late 15th century, europeans और Arabs took स्लेव इससे West, Central and southeast Africa विदेशी in the अफ़्रीकी slave व्यापार.
यूरोपीय colonization of Africa developed rapidly in the हाथापाई for अफ़्रीकी of the late 19th और early 20th सदियां.
Following struggles for independence in many parts of the continent, as खूब as a weakened यूरोपीय after the Second संसार युद्ध ; decolonization took प्लेस.
Africa 's history has महरूम चुनौतीपूर्ण लिये researchers in the फ़ील्ड of African अध्ययन क्युकी of the किल्लत of लिखा स्त्रोत in विशाल parts of sub-Saharan Africa.
scholarly techniques such as the रिकॉर्डिंग of मौखिक इतिहास, ऐतिहासिक भाषाविज्ञान, archaeology और आनुवंशिकी have महरूम crucial.
Curry फोली थी the first खिलाड़ी in प्रमुख League बेसबॉल इतिहास to hit for the cycle.
In baseball, hitting for the साईकिल is the accomplishment of one batter hitting a सिंगल, a दोगुना, a ट्रिपल, and a home चलाएं in the same game.
collecting the hits in कि order is known as a `` प्राकृतिक cycle ''.
Cycles are uncommon in Major लीग Baseball ( एमएलबी ), and have occurred 294 टाइम्स since the first by Curry Foley in 1882.
The cycle is roughly as आम as a no-hitter ( 279 आवृत्ति in एमएलबी history ) ; it रै been called `` one of the rarest '' and `` most मुश्किल feats '' in baseball.
Based on 2009 offensive levels, the probability of an औसत एमएलबी player hitting लिये a साईकिल against an average team in a खेल is approximately 0.00590 % ; this corresponds to about 2.5 cycles in a 162-game season with 30 teams.
In other baseball लीग, the साईकिल is achieved less अक्सर.
Through सितंबर 4, 2008, 62 players in Nippon Professional Baseball ( NPB ), the top-level बेसबॉल organization in Japan, have hit for the cycle, the most हाल होने Michihiro Ogasawara.
Two players have hit for the cycle on the वही दिन एकबार in NPB history ; इस रै occurred twice in एमएलबी history.
एक NPB player रै भी hit लिये the साईकिल in an npb All-Star game.
no player रै ever hit for the साईकिल in the एमएलबी All-Star Game or the postseason.
the main slave routes in मध्यकालीन Africa.
इस आलेख discusses systems, इतिहास, and प्रभाव of slavery within अफ़्रीकी.
See अरब slave trade, Atlantic स्लेव व्यापार, Maafa, और गुलामी in contemporary Africa लिये other discussions.
`` Slave हस्तांतरण in Africa ''.
Europeans usually did not enter the interior regions.
गुलामी in अफ़्रीकी रै existed throughout the महाद्वीप for many centuries, and continues in the current day.
प्रणालियों of servitude और slavery यहूद आम in अनेक भाग of the महाद्वीप, as they यहूद in much of the ancient world.
In most अफ़्रीकी societies where slavery थी prevalent, the enslaved people यहूद largely treated as indentured servants and not treated as chattel स्लेव.
जब the Arab स्लेव trade and अटलांटिक slave व्यापार began, अनेक of the लोकल स्लेव systems changed and began supplying captives for स्लेव markets outside of Africa.
Slavery in ऐतिहासिक अफ़्रीकी थी practiced in many अलग forms and some of these do नहीं clearly fit the definitions of गुलामी elsewhere in the संसार.
Debt गुलामी, enslavement of war captives, सैन्य slavery, and criminal गुलामी यहूद सब practiced in various भाग of अफ़्रीकी.
Although there had been कुछ trans-Saharan व्यापार इससे the आंतरिक of sub-saharan Africa to अन्य regions, गुलामी was a small भाग of the economic जीवन of many societies in Africa जबतक the introduction of transcontinental स्लेव trades ( अरब and अटलांटिक ).
स्लेव practices were again रूपांतरित with European colonization of अफ़्रीकी and the formal abolition of slavery in the early 1900s.
खिड़कियाँ कार्य Manager is a task manager or System monitor अनुप्रयोग included साथ the Microsoft Windows NT family of ऑपरेटिंग systems कि provides limited सूचना परिचय computer performance and कार्यशील अनुप्रयोग, प्रक्रियाओं और CPU उपयोग, commit चार्ज and मेमोरी information, संजाल कार्यकलाप and statistics, logged-in users, and प्रणाली services ( and as प्रायः is the case with software tools provided by Microsoft for Windows, 3rd party तन्त्र is available जिससे fills the आवश्यकताएँ अधिक thoroughly, e.g, `` प्रक्रम एक्सप्लोरर '', `` विस्तारित कार्य Manager '', `` Anvir Task मैनेजर '', `` प्रक्रम Hacker '', और `` System एक्सप्लोरर '' ).
the Task Manager can भी be used to set process priorities, processor affinity, forcibly terminate प्रक्रियाओं, and shut bas, restart, hibernate or log बंद from खिड़कियाँ.
खिड़कियाँ Task मैनेजर was introduced with Windows NT 4.0.
Previous versions of खिड़कियाँ NT शामिल the Task सूची application, which had दूर कम features.
The कार्य सूची थी सक्षम of लिस्टिंग currently कार्यशील processes and killing उन्हें, or बनाना a new process.
In Windows XP only, a Shutdown menu is भी present that allows अभिगम to Standby, Hibernate, फेरे off, restart, Log Off और स्विच User.
Earlier versions of microsoft खिड़कियाँ ( Microsoft Windows 3.x, Windows 95, Windows 98 ) था a कार्यक्रम ज्ञात as tasks to प्रदर्शक the programs currently कार्यशील.
This संचिका was चलाया by running the taskman.exe file from the C : \Windows directory.
The Troop is an American-Canadian live-action, single camera comedy -adventure टेलीविज़न श्रेणी about a तिकड़ी of teenagers who fight और capture monsters and अन्य supernatural phenomena that invade the fictional कस्बा of Lakewood.
निर्मित और कार्यपालिका produced by अधिकतम burnett, Greg Coolidge और क्रिस मॉर्गन, the series premiered on निकलोडियन on September 18, 2009.
the second season premiered on June 25, 2011 and Nickelodeon रद्द the श्रेणी midway through it 's दूसरी season.
the remaining episodes of ऋतु 2 यहूद aired on Nicktoons मगर the पिछला 3..
Sparsely आबादी in relation to इसके area, the Democratic गणतंत्र of the Congo ( drc ) is home to a vast potential of प्राकृतिक resources and mineral wealth, इसके untapped जमा of कच्चा minerals are estimated to be worth in excess of us $ 24 trillion, yet the economy of the drc has declined drastically since the mid-1980s.
At the समय of its independence in 1960, DRC was the second सबसे industrialized country in Africa after South अफ़्रीकी ; it boasted a thriving mining सेक्टर and its agriculture sector was relatively productive.
if the दर्शक stares at this चित्र for 20–60 seconds and stares at a white ऑब्जेक्ट, a ऋणात्मक afterimage will appear ( in इस मामला, it will be क्यान on magenta ).
इस can also be हासिल by the दर्शक closing his/her आँखें and tilting उनके head up.
An afterimage or ghost image or image burn-in is an optical भ्रम that refers to an image continuing to appear in one 's दृष्टि after the exposure to the original image has ceased.
One of the most आम afterimages is the bright glow कि seems to फ्लैश पहले one 's eyes after looking into a light सोर्स लिये a few seconds.
Closing the नजर can सहायता achieve a better sense of the color in इसके अपना पहलू.
afterimages आइये in दो forms, ऋणात्मक ( inverted ) और positive ( retaining असली color ).
The process पीछे positive afterimages is unknown, though thought to be related to neural अनुकूलन.
On the other hand, ऋणात्मक afterimages are a retinal phenomenon and हैं well understood.
Lost is an अमरीकी serial drama television श्रेणी कि premiered on September 22, 2004 on the अमरीकी प्रसारण कम्पनी ( ABC ).
the श्रेणी was निर्मित by J. J. Abrams and Damon lindelof, आधारित upon an original पायलट script titled Nowhere written by Jeffrey lieber.
छह सीज़न of the show aired, in जोड to numerous clip shows to पूर्वावलोकन previous episodes.
ABC घोषित that Lost होता समाप्त after छह seasons, having produced a total of 121 एपीसोड.
The श्रेणी follows the पास्ट, उपस्थित, and भविष्य experience ( s ) of the survivors of a प्लेन क्रैश on a passenger जेट, Oceanic उड़ान 815, flying इससे Sydney to Los एंजिल्स after it क्रैश on a tropical island in the South Pacific.
The श्रेणी भी includes stories of the lives of people already जीना on the island — वे शामिल the `` Others ``, who initially antagonize the survivors, as well as a group of लोगों who arrive on the freighter kahana.
Each एपीसोड typically features action on the द्वीप as well as a secondary कथानक from another point in a अक्षर 's जीवन.
Season 6 features a detailing of the lives of the survivors in a different वास्तविकता, as if the उड़ान had never crashed.
in the following list, the पद `` featured character ( s ) '' refers to the अक्षर or characters who हैं featured in the secondary storyline of each एपीसोड.
`` No.
in श्रेणी '' refers to the एपीसोड 's number in the overall श्रेणी, whereas `` No.
in season '' refers to the episode 's क्रमांक in each particular season.
`` U.S. viewers ( लाख ) '' refers to the क्रमांक of अमेरिकी in millions who watched the episode live.
A total of 121 episodes of Lost यहूद produced, the last of which aired on May 23, 2010.
All seasons are available on DVD in Regions 1–4 और on Blu-ray in Regions A and B.
Flat feet ( also called pes planus or fallen arches ) is a formal सन्दर्भ to a medical condition in जिससे the मेहराब of the पैर collapses, with the entire एकमात्र of the पैर coming into पूरा or near-complete contact with the ground.
In कुछ individuals ( an अनुमानित 20–30 % of the general population ) the arch बस never develops in one foot ( unilaterally ) or both फीट ( bilaterally ).
Three अध्ययन ( देखिए citations below in military section ) of military recruits have shown no प्रमाण of बाद increased injury, or पैर समस्याएं, due to flat feet, in a जनसांख्यिकी of people जो पहुँचें military service age without prior foot समस्याएं.
However, these studies can not be प्रयुक्त to न्यायधीश संभावित future क्षति from this कंडीशन जब diagnosed at younger आयु.
They also can not be लागू to persons whose flat feet are associated with foot symptoms, or निश्चित लक्षण in other भाग of the body ( ऐसे as the लेग or back ) possibly referable to the पैर.
Generation X, commonly abbreviated to Gen X, is the पीढी born after the Western post-world War ii baby बूम.
Demographers, इतिहासकारों और टीकाकारों use beginning जनम तिथियाँ from the जल्दी 1960s to the जल्दी 1980s.
The term was popularized by Douglas coupland 's 1991 novel Generation X : Tales लिये an Accelerated Culture.
Before that, it had been used for various subcultures or countercultures बाद the 1950s.
दबाव छाले, also known as decubitus ulcers or bedsores, are localized चोटों to the skin and/or underlying tissue usually over a bony prominence, as a परिणाम of pressure, or दबाव in combination with shear and/or घर्षण.
सबसे commonly this होगा be the sacrum, coccyx, heels or the hips, but other साइट such as the elbows, knees, ankles or the वापस of the cranium can be affected.
the कारण of दबाव ulcers is दबाव applied to नरम tissue so that blood flow to the नरम tissue is completely or partially obstructed.
shear is भी a कारण ; shear खींचता on blood vessels that फीड the स्किन.
Pressure ulcers most commonly develop in persons who हैं not moving परिचय or हैं confined to wheelchairs.
It is widely believed that other कारकों can influence the tolerance of स्किन for pressure and shear thereby increasing the risk of दबाव ulcer development.
These कारकों are protein-calorie कुपोषण, microclimate ( skin wetness caused by sweating or incontinence ), diseases कि reduce blood flow to the skin, ऐसे as arteriosclerosis or diseases that reduce the feeling in the skin, such as paralysis or न्यूरोपैथी.
The healing of दबाव ulcers may be slowed by the आयु of the व्यक्ति, medical शर्तें ( such as arteriosclerosis, diabetes or infection ), smoking or medications such as antiinflammatory drugs.
Although often prevented and treatable if मिला early, दबाव छाले can be बहुत difficult to prevent in critically ill patients, frail बड़ो, wheelchair users ( especially जहाँ spinal injury is involved ) और terminally ill patients.
प्राथमिक prevention is to redistribute pressure by turning the patient regularly.
The benefit of turning to avoid further sores is खूब documented since at least the 19th century.
in addition to turning और re-positioning the रोगी in bed or wheelchair, खाने a संतुलित diet with पर्याप्त प्रोटीन and keeping the skin फ़्री इससे exposure to urine और stool is बहुत important.
The prevalence of pressure छाले in hospital settings is ऊँची, लकिन improvements are being बना.
According to the 2010 ipup ( International Pressure अल्सर Prevalence सर्वेक्षण ) conducted in कनाडा, there थी a significant decrease in the overall facility-acquired व्यापकता of pressure छाले इससे 2009-2010.
Ulcers were सबसे commonly identified at the sacral/coccyx अल्सर स्थान ; however, heel ulcers were the most common facility-acquired location in the सर्वेक्षण.
overboard is a 1987 अमरीकी romantic कॉमेडी फिल्मी starring Goldie Hawn and Kurt Russell.
It was directed by Garry Marshall, उत्पादित by roddy McDowell, और loosely inspired by the 1974 इतालवी film swept दूर.
in turn, Overboard was adapted into the 2006 South Korean television series, Couple or Trouble.
ग्रीन Bay is a city in और the काउंटी seat of Brown County in the U.S. state of विस्कॉन्सिन, located at the head of Green Bay, a sub-basin of Lake Michigan, at the mouth of the Fox नदी.
It has an उन्नयन of above समुद्र level और is located north of मिल्वौकी.
The population थी 104,057 at the 2010 census.
it is the third-largest नगर in the state of Wisconsin, after मिल्वौकी and Madison.
It is भी the third-largest city on the वेस्ट shore of Lake Michigan, बाद शिकागो और मिल्वौकी.
Green खाड़ी is घर to the ग्रीन खाड़ी Packers of the National Football League, making it by far the smallest metropolitan area in the USA to मेजबान a प्रमुख पेशेवर खेल मताधिकार.
Green Bay is the principal city of the Green खाड़ी Metropolitan Statistical Area, जिससे कवर Brown, Kewaunee, and oconto Counties and था a combined जनसांख्यिकी of 282,599 at the 2000 census.
Green खाड़ी is an industrial city with several meatpacking and पेपर पौधे, and a port on Green Bay, an arm of Lake मिशिगन that locals कॉल the खाड़ी of ग्रीन Bay, to avoid conflating it with the eponymous नगर.
It is home to the नेशनल Railroad Museum ; the नेविली Public संग्रहालय, with प्रदर्शनियों of art, history, और science ; और the University of wisconsin–green Bay.
luteinizing hormone ( lh, भी known as lutropin and sometimes lutrophin ) is a हार्मोन उत्पादित by gonadotroph कोशिकाएं in the anterior pituitary gland.
In females, an acute वृद्धि of LH ( `` LH surge '' ) triggers ovulation और development of the कॉर्पस luteum.
In males, जहाँ LH था also been पुकारा अंतरालीय cell-stimulating hormone ( ICSH ), it stimulates Leydig कोशिका उत्पादन of testosterone.
it acts synergistically with FSH.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez ( अप्रैल 16, 1971 – March 31, 1995 ), known simply as Selena, was an अमरीकी singer-songwriter.
वो was named the `` top लैटिन artist of the '90s '' और `` Best selling Latin artist of the दशक '' by बिलबोर्ड for उसके चौदह top-ten singles in the Top लैटिन Songs chart, सहित सात number-one hits.
सेलिना had the most successful singles of 1994 और 1995, `` Amor Prohibido `` and `` No me Queda más ``.
She थी called `` The Queen of tejano music `` and the Mexican equivalent of Madonna.
Selena released her first album, Selena y Los Dinos, at the age of बारह.
She जीती Female vocalist of the Year at the 1987 Tejano म्यूज़िक Awards and landed a रिकॉर्डिंग contract with EMI a few years बाद.
उसके fame grew throughout the early 1990s, विशेषकर in Spanish-speaking countries, and she था begun recording in English as well.
Selena was murdered at the age of 23 on कूच 31, 1995 by Yolanda saldívar, the former अध्यक्ष of her fan club.
On April 12, 1995, दो weeks बाद her मौत, जार्ज W. बुश, राज्यपाल of Texas at the time, declared her birthday `` Selena दिन '' in Texas.
Warner भाईs. उत्पादित Selena, a film based on उसके जीवन अभिनीत Jennifer लोपेज़, in 1997.
सेलिना 's life थी also the आधार of the musical सेलिना Forever अभिनीत वेरोनिका Vazquez as Selena.
In June 2006 Selena was commemorated साथ a life-sized bronze statue ( Mirador de la Flor in Corpus christi, टेक्सास ) and a Selena museum खोली there.
She रै बेची over 60 million albums विश्वव्यापी, making उसके one of the best-selling कलाकारों of all time.
वो is also the तभी female कलाकार to have पाँच albums in U.S. बिलबोर्ड 200 at the वही समय.
जर्मनी stahlhelm from संसार युद्ध II
Insignia of the bolivian Army colorados regiment, प्रर्दशित a stahlhelm और two crossed bayonets
Stahlhelm ( बहुवचन, Stahlhelme ) is जर्मनी लिये `` steel helmet ''.
The इम्पीरियल German Army began to replace the traditional boiled-leather pickelhaube ( spiked कॉम्बैट हेल्मेट ) with the Stahlhelm during World युद्ध I in 1916.
The term Stahlhelm refers both to a जेनेरिक steel हेल्मेट, and अधिक specifically to the distinctive ( and iconic ) जर्मनी design.
The stahlhelm, with its distinctive `` coal scuttle `` shape, was an instantly recognizable प्रतीक लिये military imagery और became a common element of military propaganda on both पहलू, just जैसे the pickelhaube before it.
Its name थी भी used by the stahlhelm, a अर्धसैनिक राष्ट्रवादी संगठन स्थापित at the समाप्त of 1918.
Glow-in-the-dark may refer to:
Bioluminescence, the उत्पादन और emission of लाइट by a जीना organism
chemiluminescence, is the emission of लाइट ( luminescence ) without emission of heat
स्फुरदीप्ति, a specific type of photoluminescence related to fluorescence
Radioluminescence, production of संदीप्ति in a सामग्री by the bombardment of ionizing radiation
Glow in the Dark Tour, a 2008 कॉन्सर्ट tour by Kanye West
Frankfurt Airport serves as a hub नगर for Lufthansa और receives फ़्लाइट from Star Alliance carriers.
एयरलाइन hubs are airports ranked as विशाल, medium, small, and non-hubs as one of the FAA airport categories जिससे हैं re-evaluated every year आधारित on number of वाणिज्यिक passengers.
The more आम but informal उपयोग लिये the phrase airline हब is an airport कि an एयरलाइन उपयोग as a ट्रांसफ़र पाइंट to get passengers to their intended destination.
it is भाग of a hub and spoke मॉडल, जहाँ travelers चलती between एयरपोर्ट नहीं served by सीधा flights बदलें planes en route to their destinations.
This is as opposed to the पाइंट to पाइंट मॉडल.
अनेक hubs of the airlines हैं also situated at एयरपोर्ट in the cities of the respective head कार्यालयों.
Some एयरलाइंस may use only a single हब, जबकि other airlines use multiple hubs.
Hubs हैं used for दोनो passenger फ़्लाइट as well as कार्गो flights.
Many एयरलाइंस also use focus शहरों, जिससे function much the वही as hubs.
Airlines may भी उपयोग द्वितीयक hubs, a non-technical term for विशाल focus शहरों.
A hub in the मध्य of a route is अधिक effective than at either समाप्त as connecting traffic अधिक easily भरता the plane - passengers prefer a one-stop ( two-leg ) रूट over a two-stop ( three-leg ) रूट.
Hollow Lacedaemon.
Site of the menelaion, the shrine to हेलेन और Menelaus constructed anciently in the Bronze Age नगर that stood on the hill of Therapne on the left बैंको of the Eurotas नदी निहार the future site of डोरियन Sparta.
Across the valley the successive ridges of माउंट taygetus are in evidence.
स्पार्टा ( Doric Greek : ; अटारी यूनानी : ), or lacedaemon, थी a prominent city-state in ancient यूनानियों, situated on the banks of the Eurotas नदी in Laconia, in south-eastern पेलोपोनीज़.
It उभरा as a political entity around the 10th century BC, when the invading Dorians subjugated the local, non-Dorian जनसांख्यिकी.
around 650 bc, it रोज़ to become the dominant military land-power in ancient यूनानियों.
दिए its सैन्य pre-eminence, Sparta was recognized as the overall leader of the संयुक्त Greek शक्तियां during the Greco-Persian Wars.
Between 431 और 404 BC, Sparta was the principal enemy of एथेंस during the Peloponnesian युद्ध, from जिससे it उभरा victorious, though at ग्रेट लागत.
Sparta 's शिकस्त by thebes in the Battle of leuctra in 371 bc ended स्पार्टा 's prominent भूमिका in यूनानियों.
however, it कायम इसके political स्वतंत्रता until the रोमन conquest of यूनानियों in 146 BC.
It तब underwent a long काल of decline, especially in the मध्य आयु, जब many Spartans moved to live in mystras.
Modern स्पार्टा is the capital of the Greek क्षेत्रीय unit of Laconia और a बीच लिये the processing of goods ऐसे as citrus and olives.
स्पार्टा was unique in ancient Greece लिये its सोशल प्रणाली और constitution, which completely focused on सैन्य प्रशिक्षण and excellence.
इसके inhabitants were classified as Spartiates ( Spartan citizens, who enjoyed full अधिकारों ), Mothakes ( non-Spartan free men raised as Spartans ), perioikoi ( freedmen ), and Helots ( state-owned serfs, enslaved non-Spartan local जनसांख्यिकी ).
Spartiates underwent the rigorous agoge प्रशिक्षण और education regimen, और spartan phalanges were widely माना to be among the बेहतरीन in बैटल.
Spartan women enjoyed considerably more rights and equality to men than elsewhere in the शास्त्रीय संसार.
स्पार्टा थी the विषय of fascination in इसके own day, as खूब as in the West following the पुनरुद्धार of classical सीखना.
इस प्रेम or admiration of Sparta is ज्ञात as laconism or laconophilia.
Fantasy football is an interactive competition in which users compete against each other as general प्रबंधक of virtual teams.
the खिलाड़ी that an individual is able to मैनेज हैं पेशेवर अमरीकी football players in the नेशनल Football लीग.
The अलग actions people are able to make are drafting, trading, adding or dropping players, and changing rosters.
Due to the विकास of the Internet, Fantasy football रै vastly increased in popularity, विशेषकर because Fantasy football providers such as ईएसपीएन, याहू, CBS, and the NFL itself are समर्थ to keep track of आंकडे entirely ऑनलाइन, eliminating the need to जाँच box स्कोर और newspapers regularly to keep track of खिलाड़ी.
Most leagues have a सिंगल week championship in Week 16 of the NFL ऋतु.
World जनसांख्यिकी estimates from 1800 to 2100, based on un 2010 projections ( red, नारंगी, ग्रीन ) and us Census ब्यूरो ऐतिहासिक estimates ( black ).
वास्तविक recorded population figures हैं in blue.
according to the highest अनुमान, the world population may rise to 16 billion by 2100 ; according to the न्यूनतम अनुमान, it may decline to 6 अरब.
the world population is the total number of जीना humans on Earth.
as of आज, it is estimated to number billion by the United राज्य Census Bureau ( USCB ).
the USCB estimates कि the world जनसांख्यिकी exceeded 7 billion on March 12, 2012.
according to a पृथक estimate by the संयुक्त राष्ट्र Population Fund, it reached this milestone on October 31, 2011.
The संसार population रै experienced continuous growth since the end of the Great अकाल and the Black Death in 1350, when it stood at around 370 लाख.
The highest दरों of growth – वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी increases above 1.8 % per साल – were देखी briefly दौरान the 1950s, and लिये a longer period दौरान the 1960s and 1970s.
the growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, और था अस्वीकृत to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total सालाना births were उच्चतम in the late 1980s at about 138 million, and are now अपेक्षित to remain essentially निरंतर at उनके 2011 level of 134 लाख, while मौतों number 56 लाख प्रति year, और are expected to बढ़ाएँ to 80 million प्रति year by 2040.
वर्तमान projections दिखाएँ a जारी बढ़ाएँ in population in the near future ( लकिन a स्थिर मनाही in the जनसांख्यिकी विकास रेट ), साथ the वैश्विक population अपेक्षित to पहुँचें between 7.5 और 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates predict further growth, stagnation, or even overall मनाही in the वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the स्थिरता of further world population growth, citing the growing pressures on the environment, वैश्विक खाना supplies, and energy resources.
skeletal muscles homo sapiens
इस is a table of मांसपेशियां of the इंसान anatomy.
वहीँ are approximately 642 skeletal मांसपेशियां within the ठेठ इंसान, and almost प्रत्येक मांसपेशी constitutes एक part of a जोड़ी of identical bilateral muscles, found on दोनो पहलू, resulting in approximately 320 pairs of मांसपेशियां, as प्रस्तुत in this आलेख.
Nevertheless, the सटीक number is मुश्किल to define क्युकी अलग स्त्रोत समूह muscles differently, e.g. regarding what is पारिभाषित as अलग भाग of a सिंगल muscle or as अनेक मांसपेशियां.
Examples range इससे 640 to 850.
The muscles of the इंसान देह can be categorized into a क्रमांक of समूह which include muscles relating to the head and neck, मांसपेशियां of the torso or ट्रंक, muscles of the अपर limbs, and मांसपेशियां of the lower limbs.
The action refers to the action of each muscle इससे the standard anatomical स्थिति.
In other स्थितियाँ, other actions may be performed.
a gold bar is a quantity of refined धात्विक gold of कोई shape that is made by a bar निर्माता meeting standard शर्तें of manufacture, labeling, and record keeping.
Larger सुनहरा बार that हैं उत्पादित by pouring the molten metal into molds हैं पुकारा ingots.
Smaller bars may be manufactured by minting or stamping इससे appropriately rolled सुनहरा sheets.
the standard सुनहरा बार आयोजित as gold reserves by central banks and traded among bullion डीलर is the 400-troy-ounce ( 12.4 kg or 438.9 औंस ) Good डिलीवरी gold bar.
the kilobar, which is to कह 1000 grams in mass, is the bar that is more manageable और is प्रयुक्त extensively for व्यापार and निवेश.
the premium on ये bars when traded is very कम over the spot value of the gold बनाना it आदर्श लिये small transfers between banks और traders.
सबसे kilobars हैं चपटा, although कुछ investors, particularly in Europe, prefer the ईंटों shape.
elisha आर्चिबाल्ड `` Archie '' Manning iii ( born May 19, 1949 ) is a former अमरीकी football quarterback in the National फ़ुटबॉल लीग, playing for the नई ऑरलियन्स Saints इससे 1971 to 1982, then लिये the ह्यूस्टन ऑइलर्स and Minnesota Vikings.
He is the father of current Denver Broncos क्वार्टरबैक Peyton Manning, वर्तमान New York दिग्गज starting क्वार्टरबैक एली Manning, और former ओले मिस receiver Cooper मैनिंग.
Advocacy is a political process by an individual or group which aims to influence public-policy and resource allocation decisions भीतर political, आर्थिक, and सोशल प्रणालियों और institutions.
वकालत can include many activities कि a person or organization undertakes including मीडिया campaigns, पब्लिक speaking, commissioning and प्रकाशन research or पोल or the filing of an amicus brief.
lobbying ( प्रायः by lobby समूह ) is a रूप of advocacy where a direct दृष्टिकोण is made to विधायक on an समस्या which plays a significant role in modern politics.
शोध is शुरूआत to explore कैसा advocacy समूह in the U.S. and कनाडा are using social media to सुकर civic सगाई and collective कार्रवाई.
The ध्वज of Mexico ( Spanish : bandera de México ) is a vertical tricolor of ग्रीन, श्वेत, and रेड with the national coat of arms चार्ज in the बीच of the white stripe.
While the meaning of the रंगों has changed over time, these तीन रंगों यहूद adopted by मैक्सिको following independence इससे स्पेन दौरान the देश 's युद्ध of स्वतंत्रता, and subsequent पहला मैक्सिकन Empire.
the वर्तमान ध्वज was adopted in 1968, but the overall design has महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि 1821, जब the First National ध्वज was created.
The current law of national symbols, Law on the National Arms, Flag, and गान, कि governs the उपयोग of the नेशनल ध्वज रै महरूम in place since 1984.
रेड, white, and ग्रीन are the रंगों of the national मुक्ति फौज in मैक्सिको.
the central emblem is the Aztec pictogram लिये Tenochtitlan ( now मैक्सिको City ), the center of their साम्राज्य.
It recalls the लेजेंड that inspired the Aztecs to settle on what थी originally a lake-island.
The रूप of the coat of बाहें was most recently revised in 1968.
A रिबन in the नेशनल रंगों is at the नीचे of the coat of बाहें.
Throughout इतिहास, the flag has बदला four टाइम्स, as the design of the coat of arms and the length-width ratios of the ध्वज have been modified.
however, the कोट of arms has had the same features throughout : an त्रिभुज, पकड़कर a serpent in its talon, is perched on top of a prickly नाशपाती कैक्टस ; the cactus is situated on a rock कि उदय above a lake.
The coat of arms is निकला from an एज़टेक legend कि their gods told them to build a नगर जहाँ वे spot an त्रिभुज on a nopal eating a serpent, which is अभी Mexico नगर.
The current नेशनल flag, the Fourth नेशनल Flag, is भी used as the Mexican naval ensign by जहाजों पंजीकृत in Mexico.
a destination marketing organization or सम्मेलन and visitor bureau promotes a कस्बा, city, प्रदेश, or देश in अनुक्रम to बढ़ाएँ the क्रमांक of विज़िटर.
It promotes the development and विपणन of a गंतव्य, focusing on convention sales, पर्यटन marketing, और सेवाएं.
Such organizations प्रचार economic development of a destination by increasing visits इससे पर्यटकों और business travelers, which generates overnight lodging लिये a destination, visits to रेस्तरां, and खरीदारी revenues.
सम्मेलन और visitor bureaus are the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण tourism विपणन संगठन in their संबंधित पर्यटक destinations, as they हैं directly जिम्मेदार for विपणन the गंतव्य brand through travel and tourism `` product awareness '' to विज़िटर.
DMOs उपज अरबों of डॉलर in direct and अप्रत्यक्ष revenue और कर for उनके गंतव्यों ' economies with उनके marketing and sales expertise.
Destination marketing organizations हैं often called travel, सम्मेलन, visitors, or tourism bureaux, welcome centers, सूचना centers and more.
Regardless of the name, these संगठन प्रस्ताव many services to the traveling public.
the नीलगाय or wapiti ( Cervus canadensis ) is one of the largest प्रजाति of हिरण in the संसार, and one of the largest land mammals in North America और eastern Asia.
It was long believed to be a subspecies of the European रेड हिरण ( cervus elaphus ), but evidence इससे a 2004 study of the mitochondrial DNA indicates that the दो are distinct species.
This animal should not be उलझन with the larger moose ( Alces alces ), to which the name `` नीलगाय '' applies in यूरेशिया.
Apart इससे the moose, the only अन्य सदस्य of the हिरण परिवार to rival the elk in size is the south Asian sambar ( Rusa unicolor ).
Elk range in forest and forest-edge habitat, feeding on grasses, पौधे, leaves, and bark.
Although देशी to उत्तर अमेरिका and eastern एशिया, वे have adapted खूब to countries where they have महरूम introduced, सहित Argentina, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, और नई जीलैंड.
Their great adaptability may threaten endemic species and ecosystems into जिससे वे have been introduced.
Male elk have large antlers which are shed each साल.
males also engage in ritualized mating behaviors during the rut, सहित posturing, antler कुश्ती ( sparring ), और bugling, a loud series of vocalizations जिससे establishes दबदबा over other males and attracts females.
Elk are susceptible to a क्रमांक of संक्रामक diseases, कुछ of जिससे can be transmitted to livestock.
Efforts to eliminate संक्रामक रोगों इससे नीलगाय populations, largely through vaccination, have had mixed कामयाबी.
Some cultures आदर the elk as a spiritual फ़ोर्स.
In भाग of एशिया, antlers and their मखमल are used in traditional medicines.
Elk are hunted as a game प्रजाति ; the meat is leaner and उच्चतर in protein than beef or chicken.
The जार्ज वॉशिंगटन University ( gw, GWU, or जार्ज Washington ) is a comprehensive निजी, coeducational शोध विश्वविद्यालयों located in Washington, D.C..
It पुरस्कार प्रमाणपत्र, Bachelor degrees, Masters degrees, और PhDs across अनेक दर्जन disciplines.
The विश्वविद्यालयों थी चार्टर्ड by an Act of कॉंग्रेस on फ़रवरी 9, 1821 as The columbian कॉलेज in the District of कोलंबिया.
The lion ( Panthera leo ) is one of the चार बिग cats in the genus पेंथेरा and a member of the परिवार फ़ेलिडाए.
With some males exceeding in weight, it is the second-largest living cat after the tiger.
जंगली lions फिलहाल मौजूद in sub-Saharan अफ़्रीकी and in एशिया ( जहाँ an endangered remnant जनसांख्यिकी resides in Gir वन National पार्क in इण्डिया ) while अन्य types of शेर have disappeared from North अफ़्रीकी और Southwest Asia in ऐतिहासिक times.
जबतक the लेट pleistocene, about 10,000 सालो ago, the lion was the सबसे widespread large land mammal after इंसानो.
वे were found in सबसे of अफ़्रीकी, आरपार Eurasia from पश्चिमी यूरोपीय to India, और in the americas इससे the Yukon to पेरू.
the शेर is a vulnerable species, having seen a major population decline of 30–50 % over the पास्ट two decades in इसके African range.
Lion populations हैं untenable बाहर designated reserves and नेशनल parks.
Although the cause of the decline is not fully understood, habitat loss and conflicts साथ humans हैं currently the महानतम कल्याणकारी of चिंता.
भीतर अफ़्रीकी, the West अफ़्रीकी शेर population is particularly endangered.
Lions live for 10–14 सालो in the wild, while in captivity वे can live longer than 20 सालो.
in the wild, males seldom सजीव longer than 10 years, as injuries sustained from continual लड़ with प्रतिद्वंद्वी males greatly reduce their longevity.
They typically inhabit savanna and grassland, although they may लो to bush और forest.
Lions are unusually सोशल compared to other cats.
a pride of lions consists of related females and offspring and a छोटी number of adult males.
समूह of मादा शेर typically hunt साथ, preying mostly on large ungulates.
Lions are apex और keystone predators, although they scavenge as opportunity allows.
While शेर do नहीं typically हंट इंसानो, कुछ have महरूम known to do so.
sleeping mainly दौरान the day, lions are primarily nocturnal, हालांकि bordering on crepuscular in प्रकृति.
अत्यधिक distinctive, the male शेर is easily recognised by its mane, और इसके फेस is one of the most widely recognised animal symbols in human संस्कृति.
depictions have existed इससे the Upper paleolithic काल, साथ उत्कीर्णन and paintings इससे the Lascaux and Chauvet Caves, through virtually all ancient और मध्यकालीन cultures where वे एकबार occurred.
it रै महरूम extensively depicted in sculptures, in paintings, on national ध्वज, and in contemporary films and साहित्य.
शेर have been kept in menageries since the समय of the Roman Empire, and have been a key species sought for exhibition in zoos over the world चूंकि the late 18th सदी.
zoos are cooperating worldwide in breeding programs for the endangered Asiatic subspecies.
In the इतिहास of video खेल, the seventh पीढी of consoles is the पिछला generation, और includes consoles released since late by निन्टेंडो, Microsoft, और Sony.
लिये home consoles, the सातवाँ पीढी began on 22 November 2005 with the release of एक्सबॉक्स 360 and जारी with the release of प्लेस्टेशन 3 on 11 November 2006, और Wii on 19 November 2006.
प्रत्येक नई console introduced a नई प्रकार of breakthrough in technology.
the एक्सबॉक्स 360 offered खेल rendered natively at HD resolutions, the PlayStation 3 offered, in addition to fhd gaming, hd movie प्लेबैक via a built-in 3d Blu-ray डिस्क खिलाड़ी, and the वी focused on integrating परिरक्षक with गति sensors as well as joysticks.
joining Nintendo in the motion market, सोनी released the PlayStation मूव in September 2010.
the प्लेस्टेशन Move सुविधाएँ motion संवेदन gaming, similar to कि of the वी.
Microsoft also joined सोनी and Nintendo, with इसके Kinect.
नापसंद the अन्य two systems ( PlayStation 3 and Wii ), kinect करता not use any controllers of any sort और makes the users the `` controller. ''
having sold 8 million units in its first 60 days on the मार्केट, Kinect रै claimed the Guinness संसार Record of being the `` तीव्रतम selling consumer electronics device ''.
While the एक्सबॉक्स 360 offers तार controllers as a standalone product, all PlayStation 3 परिरक्षक can be प्रयुक्त in तार and wireless configurations.
Starting with handheld consoles, the seventh पीढी began on 21 November 2004 with the North अमरीकी परिचय of the निन्टेंडो ds as a `` तीसरा pillar '', alongside Nintendo 's मौजूदा Game लड़के Advance and gamecube consoles.
the Nintendo ds ( NDS ) सुविधाएँ a टच screen and built-in माइक्रोफोन, और supports बेतार IEEE 802.11 ( wi-fi ) standards.
additionally, the revised संस्करण of the NDS, the DSi, सुविधाएँ दो निर्मित in cameras, the क्षमता to download games इससे the DSi store, and a web browser.
the प्लेस्टेशन Portable, or PSP, released बाद the वही साल on 12 दिसम्बर 2004, followed a different पैटर्न.
It became the पहला handheld video game कंसोल to use an optical disc format, सार्वभौमिक Media Disc ( UMD ), as इसके primary भंडार media.
सोनी also दिया the PSP robust multi-media capability, कनेक्टिविटी साथ the प्लेस्टेशन 3 and other psps, and Internet connectivity.
the निन्टेंडो DS likewise रै connectivity to the internet through the निन्टेंडो Wi-Fi Connection और Nintendo DS ब्राउजर, as खूब as wireless connectivity to other DS systems and Wii consoles.
despite high बिक्री numbers लिये दोनो consoles, PlayStation पोर्टेबल बिक्री have consistently lagged पीछे those of the Nintendo DS ; nevertheless, the PlayStation पोर्टेबल रै the distinction of being the best-selling non-nintendo handheld gaming system.
sgt. Pepper 's Lonely Hearts Club बैंड ( often shortened to Sgt. Pepper ) is the आठवीं स्टुडियो album by अंग्रेज़ी चट्टान बैंड the Beatles.
released in June 1967, the एल्बम included songs such as `` With a छोटी Help from My Friends ``, `` Lucy in the आसमान with Diamonds ``, और `` A Day in the Life ``.
continuing the artistic maturation देखी on the band 's album Revolver ( 1966 ), Sgt. Pepper further departed इससे the conventional पॉप rock idiom of the समय and incorporated balladry, psychedelic, music हॉल, and symphonic प्रभाव.
दौरान the sgt. pepper सत्र, the group improved upon the quality of उनके म्यूज़िक 's production while exploring experimental recording techniques.
निर्माता George मार्टिन 's अभिनव दृष्टिकोण included the use of an orchestra.
widely acclaimed and imitated, the album cover, designed by English पॉप artists Peter Blake और Jann Haworth, was inspired by a sketch by Paul mccartney कि depicted the band posing in सामने of a कोलाज of कुछ of their पसंदीदा हस्तियाँ.
sgt. Pepper थी a worldwide नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक success, spending 27 weeks at the शीर्ष of the UK Album Chart and 15 सप्ताह at number एक on the US बिलबोर्ड 200.
A seminal कार्य in the emerging psychedelic चट्टान style, the album थी critically acclaimed upon रिलीज और won चार Grammy पुरस्कार in 1968.
साथ an अनुमानित 32 million नक़ल sold, it is एक of the world 's बेहतरीन selling albums.
sgt. Pepper is considered by अनेक to be the most influential and प्रसिद्ध rock album कभी, और रै महरूम नामित the महानतम album of all समय by both All समय शीर्ष 1000 एल्बम and रोलिंग Stone.
The temporal lobe is a region of the cerebral cortex that is located beneath the पार्श्ववर्ती fissure on दोनो cerebral hemispheres of the mammalian brain.
The temporal lobes हैं involved in the स्तंभन of visual यादें, प्रसंस्करण संवेदी input, comprehending language, storing नई memories, emotion, और deriving meaning.
The इंसान lungs are the अंगों of श्वसन in humans.
Humans have two lungs, a सही lung and a left lung.
The सही फेफड़ों consists of three lobes while the बाएँ lung is slightly smaller consisting of तभी दो निर्मोक ( the बाएँ फेफड़ों रै a `` cardiac notch '' allowing space लिये the heart within the छाती ).
Together, the lungs contain approximately of एयरवेज़ और 300 to 500 million alveoli, having a कुल surface area of परिचय ( ) in वयस्कों — roughly the same क्षेत्रफल as one पक्ष of a tennis अदालत.
Furthermore, if सब of the capillaries that घेर the alveoli यहूद unwound and laid end to end, they would extend लिये about.
प्रत्येक फेफड़ों weighs, इसलिए बनाना the संपूर्ण organ about.
Human फेफड़े
the trachea divides into two bronchi ( one लिये each side ) at the स्तर of T4.
इस junction is also ज्ञात as the carina.
The conducting zone contains the trachea, the bronchi, the bronchioles, और the टर्मिनल bronchioles the respiratory मण्डल contains the respiratory bronchioles, the alveolar नलिकाएं, और the alveoli.
The conducting zone and the respiratory stuffers ( but not the alveoli ) हैं बना up of airways.
The conducting मण्डल has no गैस एक्सचेंज with the रक्त, and is reinforced साथ cartilage in order to hold खोलें the एयरवेज़.
The conducting zone warms the air to and humidifies the एयर.
It also cleanses the एयर by removing particles via cilia located on the दीवारें of all the passageways.
The lungs are घिरी by the rib cage.
The respiratory मण्डल is the site of gas exchange साथ रक्त.
The सहानुभूतिपूर्ण बेचैन system via noradrenaline एक्टिंग on the beta receptors कल्याणकारी bronchodilation.
the parasympathetic nervous system via acetylcholine, which अधिनियमों on the M-3 muscarinic receptors, maintains the resting tone of the bronchiolar चिकना muscle.
This action is related, although considered पृथक from bronchoconstriction.
Many other non-autonomic nervous and biochemical stimuli, including carbon dioxide and ऑक्सीजन, हैं also involved in the विनियमन प्रक्रम.
The pleural गुहा is the संभावित स्पेस between the parietal pleura, lining the inner वॉल of the thoracic cage, और the visceral pleura अस्तर the फेफड़े.
the फेफड़ों parenchyma is सख्ती प्रयुक्त to refer solely to alveolar tissue साथ respiratory bronchioles, alveolar ducts and टर्मिनल bronchioles.
however, it often शामिल any रूप of lung tissue, also सहित bronchioles, bronchi, blood बरतन and फेफड़ों interstitium.
The margarita is a Mexican कॉकटेल consisting of टकीला mixed with Cointreau or समान नारंगी -flavoured liqueur and लाइम or lemon juice, often परोसा with नमक on the कांच रिम.
It is the सबसे common tequila-based cocktail in the United States.
The drink is served shaken with बर्फ ( on the rocks ), blended with बर्फ ( frozen मार्गरिटा ), or without बर्फ ( सीधा up ).
Two बोतलों of रेड बरगंडी वाइन from gevrey-chambertin, côtes de nuits
बरगंडी is a dark रेड color associated साथ the बरगंडी वाइन of the same नाम, which in फेरे is named after the Burgundy region of France.
the रंग burgundy is similar to अन्य शेड्स of dark रेड ऐसे as मैरून.
When referring to the color, `` burgundy '' is प्रायः not capitalized.
The पहला recorded उपयोग of `` burgundy '' as a color नाम in अंग्रेज़ी was in 1881.
संगीन of an unknown अंग्रेजों सिपाही, मारे in 1943 during the Battle of Leros.
Because उसके identity is अनजान, he is लापता in action.
संगीन of an अनजान अमरीकी सिपाही in oise-aisne Cemetery.
Killed in 1917
Grave of an अनजान paratrooper, killed in the Battle of arnhem, 1944.
Photographed in April 1945
Graves of 11 unknown अंग्रेजों सैनिको मारे during संसार युद्ध ii, in Rhodes cwgc war कब्रिस्तान
Wall crypts containing remains of अनजान Italian सैनिको killed during World War II, in a Rhodes cemetery
Some of the 72,000 names inscribed on the thiepval मेमोरियल to the लापता of the somme
Graves of अनजान French soldiers killed during World War One.
प्रत्येक concrete cross has a मेटल plaque bearing the word `` Inconnu '' i.e. `` अनजान ''
Ossuary at the gallipoli रणभूमि, containing the remains of 3000 unidentified French सैनिको जो died in 1915
क़ब्रों of unknown Eritrean ascaris मारे in 1941 during the बैटल of Keren
लापता in action ( MIA ) is a casualty Category assigned under the Status of Missing to armed सेवाएं personnel who are reported लापता during क्रियाशील service.
वे may have महरूम killed, wounded, become a prisoner of war, or उजाड़.
If मृतक, neither their remains nor grave can be positively identified.
Becoming MIA has महरूम an occupational रिस्क for service कर्मियों लिये as long as there has been warfare.
Chamber of Commerce Building in Center.
इस भवन is the original jail, built along with the ऐतिहासिक Courthouse.
दोनो sit on the Town Square.
the रिओ Theater in Center
First Baptist गिरिजाघर at 117 Cora गली in बीच is located अगला to the शहर section.
पहला Christian Church at 124 Cora Street in Center is एक of the oldest congregations in the community.
बीच is a नगर in Shelby County, टेक्सास, संयुक्त राज्य.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 5,193 at the 2010 census.
it is the county seat of शेल्बी County.
it is named for its स्थान निकट the center of Shelby County, not लिये its स्थान in टेक्सास as it is स्तिथ निकट the Louisiana किनारा.
Intense red-eye effect in ब्लू आँखें with dilated pupil
the red-eye प्रभाव in photography is the common रूप of red pupils in color photographs of आँखें.
It occurs जब using a फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक flash very close to the camera lens ( as साथ most compact कैमरे ), in परिवेश कम light.
the प्रभाव appears in the eyes of इंसानो and animals कि have tapetum lucidum.
नाट्य followspot operators, positioned nearly coincidentally साथ a very bright light और somewhat दूर इससे the अभिनेताओं, occasionally witness red-eye in actors on स्टेज.
the effect is नहीं visible to the बाकी of the audience because it is reliant on the very small कोण between the followspot operator और the लाइट.
The विश्वविद्यालयों of California, Santa Barbara ( commonly referred to as UC सांता बारबरा or ucsb ) is a public research university and one of the ten general campuses of the University of California system.
the main कैम्पस is स्तिथ on a साईट in goleta, California, United राज्य, इससे सांता Barbara and northwest of लॉस एंजिल्स.
Tracing इसके जड़ें back to 1891 as an independent teachers ' college, UCSB joined the University of California system in 1944 and is the third-oldest general-education कैम्पस in the प्रणाली.
UCSB is एक of अमेरिका 's Public Ivy विश्वविद्यालयों, which recognizes top पब्लिक research universities in the संयुक्त States.
The विश्वविद्यालयों is a व्यापक doctoral विश्वविद्यालयों और is organized into पाँच कॉलेजों and schools offering 87 undergraduate degrees और 55 graduate डिग्री.
The कैम्पस is the 6th-largest in the UC प्रणाली by enrollment साथ 18,977 undergraduate and 2,950 graduate विद्यार्थी.
In 2012, UCSB was क्रमित 41st among `` नेशनल Universities '' and 10th among पब्लिक विश्वविद्यालयों by u.S. News & World रपट.
The विश्वविद्यालयों was also ranked 35th worldwide by the टाइम्स Higher Education World विश्वविद्यालयों Rankings and 34th worldwide ( 6th worldwide for engineering ) by the अकादमिक Ranking of World Universities in 2012. < संदर्भ name= '' shanghairanking.com/fieldeng2012 '' >
uc सांता Barbara is a `` बहुत high कार्यकलाप '' research university and spent $ 191.2 लाख on research expenditures in the 2007 fiscal year, 97th-largest in the संयुक्त States.
UCSB houses twelve नेशनल शोध centers, सहित the प्रसिद्ध Kavli Institute for Theoretical भौतिकी.
UCSB संकाय includes पाँच नोबेल Prize laureates, एक Fields Medalist, 29 members of the National Academy of Sciences, 27 members of the नेशनल अकादमी of Engineering, और 31 members of the अमरीकी अकादमी of Arts and sciences.
ucsb was the No. 3 host on the ARPAnet and was elected to the संघ of अमरीकी Universities in 1995.
the uc सांता बारबरा Gauchos compete in the ncaa प्रभाग I बिग West Conference.
the Gauchos have जीती NCAA नेशनल championships in men 's soccer and मेन 's water पोलो.
Saint Joseph with the Infant Jesus by Guido reni
Saint जोसेफ 's Day, March 19, the feast of st. Joseph is in Western christianity the principal feast दिन of Saint Joseph, Spouse of the Blessed वर्जिन मरियम.
He is भी the step-father of यीशु of Nazareth /Jesus मसीह.
It has the रैंक of a solemnity in the Roman कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर ; Catholics who follow the missal of 1962 celebrate it as a first क्लास feast.
पिछला to 1962 it थी celebrated as a feast of the rank of double of the पहला क्लास.
it is a feast or commemoration in the provinces of the Anglican Communion, and a feast or पर्व in the Lutheran गिरिजाघर.
Saint Joseph 's Day is the Patronal Feast दिन लिये कैंडल as खूब as लिये Canada, व्यक्तियों named Joseph, Josephine, etc., लिये धार्मिक institutes, schools and parishes bearing his name, and for carpenters.
It is also Father 's Day in some कैथोलिक countries, mainly स्पेन, पुर्तगाल, and इटली.
कूच 19 was dedicated to Saint Joseph in several Western calendars by the दसवाँ century, और this कस्टम was established in Rome by 1479.
Pope St. पायस v extended इसके use to the entire Roman Rite by his Apostolic Constitution quo Primum ( जुलाई 14, 1570 ).
Since 1969, एपिस्कोपल Conferences may, if they काश, transfer it to a तिथि बाहर lent.
Between 1870 and 1955, a feast was celebrated in honor of St. जोसेफ as Spouse of the Blessed वर्जिन Mary and Patron of the सार्वभौमिक Church, the latter शीर्षक having महरूम दिए to उसे by Pope पायस IX.
Originally celebrated on the third संडे after Easter with an अष्टक, बाद divino afflatu of St. Pius X ( see Reform of the Roman Breviary by Pope पायस X ), it was स्थानांतरित to the preceding बुधवार.
the feast was also retitled The Solemnity of Saint Joseph.
इस जश्न and इसके accompanying अष्टक थी abolished during the modernisation and simplification of rubrics under Pope Pius बारहवीं in 1955.
it is still कायम by catholics who follow the missal of 1962 or पहले missals.
As the परंपरागत holiday of the Apostles Ss. Philip and James, may 1, had faded इससे the memory of सबसे Catholics by the mid-twentieth century, that of जोसेफ the कार्यकर्ता थी created in अनुक्रम to coincide with the celebration of international श्रमिक Day ( May Day ) in many देशों.
The feast of ss. Philip and James, which था been celebrated on that तिथि चूंकि the sixth सदी, थी स्थानांतरित इससे its traditional place.
in the new पंचांग published in 1969, the feast, जिससे at one time occupied the उच्चतम संभावित रैंक in the गिरिजाघर calendar, थी reduced to an optional Memorial, the न्यूनतम rank for a saint 's day.
The Eastern परंपरागत Church मनाता संत जोसेफ on the Sunday after क्रिसमस.
Mariah कैरी ( born March 27, 1970 ) is an American singer, songwriter, रिकार्ड producer, actress, और philanthropist.
Under the guidance of कोलंबिया Records कार्यपालिका Tommy Mottola, Carey released उसके self-titled डेब्यू studio album mariah Carey in 1990 ; it गई multi-platinum और spawned four लगातार number one singles on the U.S. Billboard hot 100 चार्ट.
following उसके marriage to mottola in 1993 और कामयाबी with hit records Emotions ( 1991 ), म्यूज़िक Box ( 1993 ), और Merry क्रिसमस ( 1994 ), Carey was स्थापित as Columbia 's highest-selling अधिनियम.
daydream ( 1995 ) made music इतिहास when its second single `` एक Sweet दिन ``, a duet with बॉयज II मेन, खर्च a रिकार्ड sixteen सप्ताह on top of the Billboard hot 100, and remains the longest-running number-one song in U.S. चार्ट इतिहास.
During the रिकॉर्डिंग of the album, कैरी began to deviate from her R & B and pop beginnings and slowly traversed into हिप hop.
This musical change became evident साथ the रिलीज of Butterfly ( 1997 ), at which समय कैरी had अलग from mottola.
कैरी left कोलंबिया in 2000, और signed a record-breaking $ 100 million रिकॉर्डिंग contract with वर्जिन Records.
Before the रिलीज of her पहला feature फिल्मी glitter ( 2001 ), वो suffered a physical and emotional breakdown and was hospitalized for कठोर थकावट.
Following the film 's poor reception, she थी bought out of उसके recording contract for $ 50 लाख, which led to a मनाही in her करियर.
वो हस्ताक्षरित a multi-million dollar अनुबंध deal साथ द्वीप रिकॉर्ड in 2002, and after an unsuccessful period, लौटे to the शीर्ष of music charts with The emancipation of मिमी ( 2005 ).
Its second सिंगल `` we Belong Together `` became her सबसे successful सिंगल of the 2000s, और was बाद named `` Song of the Decade '' by Billboard.
Carey once again ventured into film साथ a well-received starring role in ( 2009 ) ; वो थी awarded the `` Breakthrough Performance Award '' at the ताड़ Springs अंतरराष्ट्रीय फिल्मी Festival, और Black रील and naacp Image Award nominations.
in a career spanning over दो decades, Carey has sold more than 200 लाख records worldwide, making her एक of the best-selling music कलाकारों of सब time.
In 1998, वो थी honored as the संसार 's best-selling recording कलाकार of the 1990s at the संसार Music पुरस्कार.
कैरी थी also named the best-selling female artist of the मिलेनियम in 2000.
according to the रिकॉर्डिंग Industry संघ of अमेरिका, वो is the तीसरा best-selling female artist in the संयुक्त राज्य, with 63.5 million certified albums.
साथ the रिलीज of `` Touch my Body `` ( 2008 ), कैरी gained her eighteenth number one सिंगल in the United States, अधिक than any अन्य solo artist.
in 2012, Carey was ranked second on VH1 's सूची of the `` 100 महानतम Women in म्यूज़िक ''.
Aside from her commercial accomplishments, Carey has जीती five ग्रैमी Awards, 17 संसार म्यूज़िक Awards, 11 American म्यूज़िक Awards, and 31 Billboard म्यूज़िक Awards.
Referred to as the `` songbird supreme '' by the Guinness World रिकॉर्ड, she is famed for उसके five-octave गायन दायरा, power, melismatic style and signature use of the whistle register.
A bumblebee is any सदस्य of the bee genus bombus, in the family Apidae.
There are over 250 known species, existing primarily in the Northern Hemisphere हालांकि वे भी occur in दक्षिण अमेरिका.
They have been introduced to नई Zealand और the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई state of तस्मानिया.
Bumblebees हैं social कीट that हैं characterised by black और पीला body hairs, often in bands.
however, कुछ प्रजाति have नारंगी or red on उनके bodies, or may be entirely ब्लैक.
Another obvious ( but not unique ) characteristic is the soft nature of the बाल ( long, branched setae ), called pile, that कवर their संपूर्ण body, बनाना उन्हें appear और feel fuzzy.
They हैं best विशिष्ट इससे similarly large, फजी मधुमक्खियों by the form of the मादा hind लेग, which is modified to form a corbicula : a चमकदार concave surface that is bare, लकिन surrounded by a fringe of hairs प्रयुक्त to transport पराग ( in similar मधुमक्खियों, the hind लेग is completely hairy, and pollen grains are wedged into the बालों लिये हस्तांतरण ).
जैसे their relatives the honey मधुमक्खियों, bumblebees feed on nectar और gather pollen to feed their young.
A man openly carrying a handgun in a Burger किंग in त्रिभुज, Colorado.
in the United States, खोलें carry is आशुलिपि शब्दावली लिये `` openly carrying a firearm in पब्लिक '', as distinguished from concealed carry, जहाँ firearms can not be seen by the casual observer.
The practice of open carry, where gun स्वामी openly carry firearms while वे go about उनके daily business, has seen an बढ़ाएँ in the u.S. in recent सालो.
This has been चिह्नित by a क्रमांक of व्यवस्थित events intended to बढ़ाएँ the visibility of open carry और public awareness about the अभ्यास.
Proponents of खोलें carry point to history और statistics, noting that criminals usually छिपाते their हथियार.
प्रोत्साहित by groups like OpenCarry.org, GeorgiaCarry.org and some भागीदार of the Free राज्य Project, open carry has seen a पुनरुद्धार in recent years, लकिन it is not yet clear if this represents बस a short-term trend.
the gun अधिकारों जातियाँ has महरूम mixed in its response.
एलन Gottlieb of the दूसरी Amendment न्यास and the NRA have been cautious in expressing support, जबकि special-interest groups ऐसे as the aforementioned OpenCarry.org और GeorgiaCarry.org, और निश्चित national समूह such as the Gun स्वामी of अमेरिका ( GOA ) have been more outspoken in favor of the practice.
Open carry is strongly opposed by gun कंट्रोल समूह ऐसे as the Brady अभियान और the गठबन्धन to Stop Gun हिंसा.
The cattenom Nuclear Power संयंत्र in France.
France produces around three quarters of its electricity by nuclear power.
The grafenrheinfeld Nuclear शक्ति Plant in जर्मनी.
चांसलर एंजेला Merkel 's coalition घोषित on May 30, 2011, कि Germany’s 17 nuclear शक्ति stations will be shut down by 2022, in a policy reversal following Japan 's Fukushima Daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति.
फिलहाल, 68 reactors are under construction in 15 countries.
नाभिकीय power stations operate in तीस countries.
In 2010, before the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, it was reported कि an average of about 10 nuclear रिएक्टरों were अपेक्षित to become operational प्रति year, although according to the World नाभिकीय Association, of the 17 civilian रिएक्टरों planned to become operational between 2007 and 2009, तभी five दरअसल came on stream.
As of June 2011, Germany and Switzerland हैं phasing-out नाभिकीय शक्ति.
As of जून 2011, देशों ऐसे as ऑस्ट्रेलिया, ऑस्ट्रिया, Denmark, यूनानियों, आयरलैंड, Italy, Latvia, liechtenstein, ध्वज, Malaysia, माल्टा, New जीलैंड, नार्वे और Portugal remain opposed to nuclear power.
रंग motion चित्र फिल्मी refers दोनो to unexposed रंग photographic film in a format suitable for उपयोग in a गति चित्र camera, और to finished गति picture film, ready लिये use in a projector, which bears images in color.
The first color cinematography थी by means of योगात्मक color प्रणालियों such as the एक patented in England by एडवर्ड Raymond टर्नर in 1899 और tested in 1902.
a simplified additive system थी विकसित by George अल्बर्ट Smith and सफलतापूर्वक commercialized in 1909 as Kinemacolor.
These early प्रणालियों प्रयुक्त black-and-white film to फोटोग्राफ and प्रोजेक्ट दो or more component images through different रंग filters.
Still from footage recorded by एडवर्ड टर्नर in 1902
With the present-day technology, वहीँ हैं two distinct processes : Eastman रंग ऋणात्मक 2 रसायन ( camera negative stocks, duplicating interpositive और internegative stocks ) and Eastman Color Positive 2 chemistry ( धनात्मक prints for सीधा projection ), usually abbreviated as ecn-2 और ECP-2.
Fuji 's उत्पाद हैं compatible with ecn-2 और ECP-2.
Ashanti Shequoiya डगलस ( born October 13, 1980 ) is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter, record producer, and अभिनेत्री.
ashanti is most famous for her eponymous डेब्यू album, जिससे featured the hit song `` foolish ``, और sold over 503,000 नक़ल in इसके first week of रिलीज throughout the U.S. in April 2002.
The album set a soundscan रिकार्ड as the biggest खोलने week sales for a नई female कलाकार, outselling debuts by Alicia कुंजियाँ and लॉरिन Hill.
In the same week, वो became the first female performer to simultaneously hold the शीर्ष two स्थान on the Billboard hot 100 singles chart साथ `` Foolish '', और `` कया 's Luv ? ``
( with मोटे Joe ).
Ashanti broke records again by having three शीर्ष ten songs, `` Foolish, '' `` What 's luv ? '' and `` Always on Time ``, on the Billboard Hot 100 charts in the same सप्ताह, being the पहला woman to accomplish इस feat और होने दूसरी तभी to the Beatles.
In 2003, the self-titled डेब्यू एल्बम जीती Ashanti her पहला ग्रैमी Award for बेहतरीन Contemporary r & B album.
As of अप्रैल 1st 2013, Ashanti रै sold over 27.7 million records worldwide.
Ashanti ended the decade ( 2000–09 ) as the third शीर्ष नई R & B artist behind Alicia कुंजियाँ and Beyoncé.
She भी ended the decade at क्रमांक 38 on the Top कलाकार of the Decade list.
वो is फिलहाल on the list of the Twenty बेहतरीन Selling Music Singles चूंकि 1990 for her single Foolish for selling 7.2 लाख copies to-date.
ashanti has an estimated जाल worth of $ 40 million dollars [ USD ].
ashanti लिखा and sang background on Jennifer Lopez 's `` ai n't it मजेदार ( Murder रिमिक्स ) ``, जिससे reached number एक on बिलबोर्ड hot 100, जिससे थी भी in the top 10 चार्ट at the same time as `` Foolish '', `` Always on Time '' ( साथ ja Rule ), and `` What 's Luv '' ( with मोटे Joe ).
बाद कि साल, she was acclaimed as the `` Princess of Hip-Hop & r & B '' by उसके लेबल और capped off her successful डेब्यू by जीतना eight Billboard awards and two American Music Awards.
भीतर सात years of Ashanti 's करियर, she has scored 16 शीर्ष 40 हिट्स on the Hot 100.
Ashanti रै endorsed numerous उत्पाद सहित गैप, हर्बल Essences and Mudd जीन्स.
Ashanti cites Whitney Houston, Janet Jackson, प्रिंस, Madonna, Tupac Shakur, Mary J. blige, एला fitzgerald, Smokey रॉबिन्सन, Donna गर्मियाँ, and ब्लू Magic as her musical influences.
praised as a gifted songwriter by उसके peers and आलोचकों alike, ashanti रै written/co-written the bulk of all her म्यूज़िक.
She is currently working on her own publishing कम्पनी entitled Written Entertainment.
She released her fourth studio एल्बम हकदार The घोषणा on जून 3, 2008 and is फिलहाल in the studio working on her पांचवां.
She also performed the दान धुन `` Just Stand up `` alongside 15 अन्य female singers लिये the `` Stand up to Cancer '' live television खास जिससे helped raise $ 100 लाख dollars for cancer research.
the United States फौज Air Forces ( USAAF or aaf ) was the military विमानन भुजा of the संयुक्त States of America दौरान and immediately बाद World War ii, and the सीधा predecessor of the संयुक्त राज्य एयर फ़ोर्स.
The aaf was a component of the United राज्य Army, which in 1942 was विभाजित functionally by executive order into तीन autonomous शक्तियां : the फौज Ground Forces, the सेवाएं of सप्लाई ( जिससे in 1943 became the फौज Service Forces ), and the AAF.
Each of ये शक्तियां had a commanding general जो reported सीधे to the Chief of स्टाफ of the संयुक्त States Army.
The aaf administered सब parts of military विमानन formerly वितरित among the Army Air Corps, General Headquarters Air Force, and ground forces corps क्षेत्रफल कमांडरों, and यूँ became the first air organization of the u.S. फौज to कंट्रोल its own installations and support personnel.
In practice, the AAF थी वस्तुतः autonomous inside the फौज.
the शिखर size of the AAF was over 2.4 million men and महिलाओं in सेवा and nearly 80,000 aircraft in 1944, and 783 domestic bases in December 1943.
By VE Day it था 1.25 million men stationed overseas और operated from अधिक than 1,600 airfields विश्वव्यापी.
The Air Corps became the फौज Air Forces in जून 1941 to provide the एयर arm a greater स्वायत्तता in जिससे to expand more efficiently, and to provide a structure for the अतिरिक्त कमांड echelons जरूरी by a vastly increased force.
Although other nations already था separate एयर forces independent of the army or नेवी ( ऐसे as the अंग्रेजों Royal एयर Force और the German Luftwaffe ), the AAF remained a part of the संयुक्त राज्य फौज जबतक the United राज्य एयर Force came into होने in September 1947.
however, in its विस्तार and conduct of the युद्ध, the AAF became अधिक than just an भुजा of the greater संगठन.
By the end of World युद्ध II the aaf had become virtually an independent service.
by विनियमन and कार्यपालिका अनुक्रम, the aaf was a subordinate एजेंसी of the युद्ध Department tasked only with organizing, प्रशिक्षण, and equipping combat इकाई, limited in जिम्मेदारी to the महाद्वीपीय United States, as यहूद the Army Ground शक्तियां and the फौज Service Forces.
In reality, मुख्यालय AAF नियंत्रित the conduct of सब aspects of the air युद्ध in every भाग of the संसार, determining air policy and issuing orders बगैर transmitting उन्हें through the Chief of Staff.
This `` contrast between सिद्धान्त और fact is... fundamental to an understanding of the AAF. ''
The स्वतंत्रता of सूचना अधिनियम ( FOIA ) is a federal freedom of information law कि allows लिये the full or आंशिक प्रकटीकरण of previously unreleased सूचना and दस्तावेज़ controlled by the United States government.
The Act defines agency रिकॉर्ड subject to प्रकटीकरण, outlines अनिवार्य प्रकटीकरण procedures और अनुदान nine exemptions to the statute.
It was originally signed into law by President lyndon B. जॉनसन, despite his misgivings, on July 4, 1966 as and गई into effect the following year.
The संघीय Government 's Freedom of सूचना Act चाहिए not be उलझन साथ the अलग और varying स्वतंत्रता of Information अधिनियमों passed by the individual राज्य.
Many of those राज्य acts may be समान but not identical to the संघीय act.
the European संघ ( eu ) is an economic और political union of 27 member states that are located primarily in Europe.
the EU operates through a system of supranational independent संस्थानों and intergovernmental negotiated निर्णय by the member राज्य.
Institutions of the EU include the European Commission, the Council of the यूरोपीय Union, the European परिषद, the Court of Justice of the यूरोपीय Union, the European Central Bank, the Court of Auditors, और the European पार्लियामेंट.
The European Parliament is elected प्रत्येक पाँच years by eu citizens.
The EU 's de facto capital is Brussels.
The EU traces its origins इससे the यूरोपीय कोयले and Steel जातियाँ ( ecsc ) and the European Economic Community ( EEC ), formed by the भीतरी Six countries in 1951 and 1958 क्रमशः.
In the intervening years the community and its successors have grown in size by the accession of new member states और in शक्ति by the addition of नीति क्षेत्रों to its remit.
the maastricht सन्धि established the यूरोपीय संघ under its वर्तमान नाम in 1993.
The latest major amendment to the constitutional basis of the eu, the सन्धि of लिस्बन, आए into फ़ोर्स in 2009.
The EU रै विकसित a single market through a standardised प्रणाली of laws that लागू in all member states.
Within the Schengen Area ( which includes 22 EU and 4 non-EU states ) पासपोर्ट नियंत्रण have been abolished.
eu policies aim to ensure the free movement of people, goods, सेवाएं, और capital, enact legislation in justice और home affairs, और maintain common नीतियों on trade, agriculture, fisheries and क्षेत्रीय विकास.
A monetary union, the eurozone, थी स्थापित in 1999 and is composed of 17 सदस्य राज्य.
through the आम विदेशी और Security नीति the EU has developed a भूमिका in external relations और defence.
Permanent diplomatic मिशन have महरूम established around the world.
the eu is represented at the United राष्ट्र, the wto, the G8 and the g-20.
With a combined जनसांख्यिकी of over 500 million inhabitants, or 7.3 % of the world जनसांख्यिकी, the eu, in 2012, generated a nominal सकल घरेलू उत्पाद ( GDP ) of 16.584 trillion us डॉलर, representing approximately 20 % of the वैश्विक GDP when measured in terms of खरीदना power पैरिटी, और represents the largest nominal GDP and जीडीपी ppp in the world.
The EU was the प्राप्तकर्ता of the 2012 नोबेल Peace पुरस्कार.
the वेल्स national रग्बी league team represent Wales in international रग्बी league football मिलान.
Currently the team is सातवाँ in the RLIF संसार Rankings.
The team यहूद run under the auspices of the Rugby फ़ुटबॉल लीग, but an स्वतंत्र देह, Wales Rugby League, अभी runs the team from Cardiff.
A total of three Welsh खिलाड़ी have महरूम डाला into the रग्बी लीग Hall of Fame.
समान to many अन्य वेल्श national sporting टीमों, Wales strip has महरूम primarily red लिये अनेक सालो, including now.
However in उनके पिछला संसार Cup campaign in 2000 वे किया wear a कमीज़ featuring the वेल्श flag, adding a touch of ग्रीन and white.
The team is known as `` the ड्रेगन '' and so the टीमों logo on the shirt is a red ड्रैगन.
The team date वापस to 1907, making उन्हें the तीसरा oldest national पक्ष after England and नई जीलैंड.
And it was a touring New Zealand पक्ष कि वेल्स first निभाई विरूद्ध in 1908, winning 9-8 at aberdare.
Since then Wales have regularly played England, चूंकि 1935 France, as well as सत्कार the touring Australia and नई Zealand teams, हालांकि they rarely toured themselves, नहीं playing a मैच in the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध जबतक 1975.
For twenty-six years Wales competed विरूद्ध उनके दो biggest विरोधियों, इंग्लैण्ड and France, in the European Nations कप, winning the trophy four times.
वेल्स have भी competed in the World कप on three अवसरों, the first time होने in 1975.
In 1995 and 2000 वे था their most कामयाब tournaments to date, surprisingly making the semi-finals on दोनो अवसरों before होने पिटे by इंग्लैण्ड और Australia क्रमशः.
Wales failed to qualify for the 2008 संसार Cup, being the second उच्चतम ranked पक्ष not to do so, having lost to स्कॉटलैंड on points अंतर over दो matches.
In 2008 ऑस्ट्रेलियाई जॉन Dixon became the new सिर coach and appointed Lee Briers as captain, having played लिये वेल्स चूंकि 1998.
in हाल सीज़न Wales have taken massive strides under former player Iestyn हैरिस who has coached Wales to back to back European Cup successes, which culminated in a Four राष्ट्र appearance in 2011.
cardiomyopathy ( वस्तुतः `` heart मांसपेशी बीमारी '' ) is the measurable deterioration of the function of the myocardium ( the heart मांसपेशी ) for कोई reason, प्रायः leading to heart failure ; आम symptoms हैं dyspnea ( breathlessness ) and परिधीय एडिमा ( swelling of the legs ).
लोगों साथ cardiomyopathy are often at risk of dangerous forms of irregular दिल ताल और अचानक cardiac मौत.
the most common form of cardiomyopathy is dilated cardiomyopathy.
बकवास in its literal अर्थ refers to the act of sexual intercourse.
It is an English word that is often used as a profanity, either to denote तिरस्कार or as an intensifier.
the origin of the शब्द is obscure.
it is प्रायः considered to be first attested to around 1475, लकिन it may be considerably older.
In modern usage, बकवास and इसके derivatives ( such as fucker and fucking ) can be used in the position of a संज्ञा, a verb, an adjective or an adverb.
There हैं many common phrases जिससे मेक उपयोग of the शब्द, as खूब as a क्रमांक of यौगिकों incorporating it, such as motherfucker.
Note : इस आलेख adopts the u.S. Department of Transportation 's definition of a यात्री गाडी, to औसत a car or truck, प्रयुक्त लिये passengers, excluding बसें और trains.
The United राज्य is घर to the largest passenger गाडी market of any देश in the संसार.
Overall, there यहूद an estimated 254.4 million registered यात्री vehicles in the संयुक्त राज्य according to a 2007 DOT पढ़ाई.
इस क्रमांक, along साथ the average age of vehicles, has increased steadily चूंकि 1960, indicating a growing क्रमांक of वाहनों per capita.
The Chinese car market, however, is poised to जल्द exceed the संयुक्त States ; by the end of 2012, there were over 240 million cars on the road in China.
the United States is also home to three large vehicle निर्माताओं : General मोटर्स, Ford मोटर Company और Chrysler, which have historically been referred to as the `` Big Three. ''
क्रिसलर however is no longer among the top तीन ; लकिन is number five, behind टोयोटा and Honda.
The मोटर car has clearly become an integral part of American life, with वाहनों outnumbering licensed drivers.
Clinical प्रयोगशाला in a Hospital setting प्रर्दशित several automated analysers.
a medical प्रयोगशाला or नैदानिक laboratory is a laboratory जहाँ tests are किया on नैदानिक specimens in order to get information about the health of a रोगी as pertaining to the निदान, treatment, और prevention of disease.
in poker, players construct hands of पाँच cards according to predetermined rules, जिससे vary according to which variant of पोकर is being निभाई.
ये हैंड्स are compared using a हाथ रैंकिंग प्रणाली that is standard across all variants of poker, the player with the highest-ranking hand जीतना that particular deal in सबसे variants of poker.
in कुछ विसंगतियाँ, the lowest-ranking hand can win or टाई.
ये hand rankings are also used in कुछ other कार्ड खेल, and in poker dice.
The रैंकिंग of a particular hand is increased by including multiple ताश of the same card rank, by all five ताश being from the same suit, or by all five ताश being of लगातार rank.
the relative ranking of the विभिन्न hand categories is based on the probability of being randomly dealt ऐसे a hand from a well- shuffled deck.
ब्रूस रान्डेल Hornsby ( born November 23, 1954 ) is an American virtuoso ; a singer, pianist, सिंथेसाइज़र, accordion, और dulcimer player, और songwriter.
Known for the spontaneity and रचनात्मकता of उसके live performances, Hornsby draws frequently from शास्त्रीय, jazz, bluegrass, folk, Motown, gospel, rock, blues, और jam band musical traditions साथ his songwriting and the seamless improvisations contained within.
hornsby 's रिकार्डिंग have been recognised on a number of अवसरों साथ industry पुरस्कार, including the Best New Artist ग्रैमी in 1987 with ब्रूस hornsby और the Range, the बेहतरीन Bluegrass Recording Grammy in 1990, and the बेहतरीन Pop इंस्ट्रूमेंटल Grammy in 1993.
hornsby रै also achieved recognition लिये उसके सोलो एल्बम and प्रदर्शन, his touring बैंड ब्रूस hornsby और the noisemakers, उसके ब्लूग्रास प्रोजेक्ट with Ricky Skaggs and उसके appearances as a session- और guest-musician.
He भी collaborated साथ Grateful Dead and was a सदस्य of the band इससे September 1990 to March 1992, playing at over एक hundred shows during कि period.
Sugarcane plantation in rural Cuba
Agriculture in क्यूबा रै निभाई an महत्वपूर्ण part in the economy for several hundred years.
कृषि contributes less than 10 percent to the gross घरेलू product ( जीडीपी ), but it employs roughly 20 प्रतिशत of the working जनसांख्यिकी.
परिचय 30 percent of the देश 's जमीन is प्रयुक्त for क्रॉप cultivation.
The inefficient agricultural industry in Cuba has led to the need to import विशाल amounts of foods.
क्यूबा अभी imports about 80 % of the food it rations to the पब्लिक.
The rationing program खाते for about a third of the खाना energy the average Cuban consumes.
Overall, however, Cuba is निर्भर on imports for तभी 16 % of its खाना.
right
आचमन लाखो ( initially called The Big Game आचमन लाखो as the successor of The Big Game ) is an अमरीकी multi-jurisdictional $ 1 lottery खेल.
The पहला ( The Big खेल ) Mega Millions drawing थी in 2002 ( देखिए below ).
the न्यूनतम Mega Millions advertised जैकपॉट is $ 12,000,000, paid in 26 बराबर वार्षिक किश्तों ( जबतक the cash option is chosen ) ; प्रायः, the जैकपॉट increases when वहीँ is no top-prize winner.
However, despite no jackpot विजेता for the $ 12,000,000 दिसम्बर 18, 2012 drawing, the जैकपॉट remained at $ 12,000,000 लिये the drawing to be held on December 21.
( See below for सूचना on कैसा the game 's जैकपॉट is वित्तपोषित. )
Reflecting common practice among अमरीकी lotteries, the jackpot is advertised as a नाममात्र मान of annual किश्तों.
a नकदी value विकल्प ( the usual choice ), जब chosen by a jackpot winner ( see below ), pays the approximate उपस्थित value of the किश्तों.
आचमन Millions currently उपयोग a 5/56 ( श्वेत balls ) plus 1/46 ( the आचमन बॉल ) double मेट्रिक्स to select its जीतना संख्याएँ.
Each game costs $ 1.
In 43 of the 44 आचमन Millions jurisdictions ( California is the एक्सेप्शन ), there is an option, called Megaplier ( ऐसे games are $ 2 प्रत्येक ) where non-jackpot पुरस्कार are multiplied by 2, 3, or 4.
the Megaplier थी made available to all Mega Millions jurisdictions in जनवरी 2011 ; it began as a Texas -only option.
Mega Millions is drawn at 10:59 p.m. पूर्वी time Tuesdays and Fridays, सहित holidays.
Mega Millions is administered by a consortium of इसके 12 असली lotteries and the drawings are held at wsb-tv in Atlanta, Georgia.
supervised by the Georgia Lottery.
the largest jackpot in Mega Millions, as well as in अमरीकी lottery इतिहास, was $ 656,000,000 annuitized ( with a नकदी विकल्प of $ 474,000,000 ) for the March 30, 2012 आरेखण in जिससे there were three jackpot-winning tickets ; एक प्रत्येक in इलिनोइस, कान्सास, and Maryland.
All three tickets था महरूम claimed as of अप्रैल 18, with each set of विजेता चुनना the नकदी option.
is a Japanese manga series निर्मित by लेखक Tsugumi ohba and manga artist Takeshi obata.
The प्रमुख character is Light Yagami, a ऊँची school student who discovers a supernatural notebook, the `` मौत Note '', dropped on Earth by a shinigami ( a god of मौत ) named ryuk.
The Death Note grants its उपयोक्ता the ability to मार anyone जिनकी नाम and face they know, by लिखने the name in the notebook while picturing उनके face.
the series centers around Light 's attempt to बनाएँ and नियम a world `` cleansed of evil '' as `` God '' using the notebook, and the efforts of a detective known as L to stop उसे.
Death Note was first serialized in 108 chapters by Shueisha in the जापानी manga magazine साप्ताहिक Shōnen जम्प from दिसम्बर 2003 to may 2006.
The श्रेणी थी भी published in tankōbon format in Japan starting in May 2004 and ending in October 2006 with a कुल of thirteen volumes.
The anime series aired in Japan from October 3, 2006, to जून 26, 2007.
Composed of 37 episodes, the दुश्मनी was developed by madhouse और directed by Tetsuro Araki.
A light novel आधारित on the series, written by Nisio isin, was released in Japan.
Additionally, विभिन्न video खेल have महरूम published by Konami for निन्टेंडो ds.
The श्रेणी थी adapted into live-action films released in Japan on June 17, 2006, नवम्बर 3, 2006, और February 2, 2008.
Viz मीडिया licensed the मौत Note manga in North America and रै published all the बारह volumes from the series, a 13th आवाज़ जिससे serves as a `` रीडर 's guide '', as खूब as the light novels.
the एपीसोड from the anime first appeared in उत्तर America as downloadable by ign.
viz later licensed the दुश्मनी श्रेणी and it aired on bionix in Canada and on कार्टून संजाल in the United राज्य.
the live-action films briefly निभाई in certain North अमरीकी theaters चूंकि 2008.
However, none of the वीडियो games have thus दूर महरूम published in उत्तर America or यूरोपीय.
मौत नोट is एक of Weekly Shōnen jumps best-selling manga series of all time, with बिक्री over 26.5 million copies.
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` All Hallows ' संध्या `` ), भी known as All Hallows ' संध्या, is a वार्षिक celebration observed in a number of countries on अक्तूबर 31, the eve of the Western Christian feast of All Hallows ( or सब Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of hallowmas.
According to अनेक विद्वानों, All hallows ' Eve is a christianised feast originally influenced by western European harvest festivals, and त्यौहार of the dead साथ संभावित pagan roots, particularly the Celtic Samhain.
अन्य scholars maintain that it originated independently of Samhain and रै solely Christian जड़ें.
Typical festive Halloween क्रियाएँ include trick-or-treating ( भी known as `` guising `` ), उपस्थित costume parties, नक्काशी pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, apple bobbing, visiting haunted आकर्षण, playing pranks, telling scary stories, and watching horror films.
नई York City taxicabs during midtown rush hour in मैनहटन
The taxicabs of नई यॉर्क City, with their distinctive पीला paint, हैं a widely recognized प्रतीक of the city.
Taxicabs are संचालित by private कंपनियाँ and licensed by the New York नगर Taxi और Limousine आयोग ( TLC ).
it भी oversees over 40,000 अन्य for-hire वाहनों, including `` black cars '', commuter vans and ambulettes.
`` medallion taxis, '' the familiar पीला कैब, are the तभी vehicles in the नगर permitted to चुनें up यात्री in response to a street hail.
Schematic क्रॉस खण्ड of part of leaf, जाइलम shown as रेड circles at फिगर 8.
जाइलम is one of the two प्रकार of हस्तांतरण ऊतक in vascular पौधे ( फ्लोएम is the अन्य ).
The word xylem is derived from the Greek शब्द ξύλον ( xylon ), अर्थ `` wood '' ; the best-known xylem ऊतक is लकडी, हालांकि it is found throughout the संयंत्र.
Its basic function is to transport जल, but it भी transports some nutrients through the संयंत्र.
U.S. women suffragists demonstrating लिये the right to vote, फ़रवरी 1913.
महिलाओं 's suffrage भी ज्ञात as woman suffrage is the सही of महिलाओं to vote and to run लिये दफ्तर.
Limited voting अधिकारों यहूद gained by women in Sweden, Finland और some western u.S. राज्य in the late 19th century.
अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन यहूद formed to coordinate प्रयत्न, विशेषकर the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Council of Women ( 1888 ) और the International Woman Suffrage Alliance ( 1904 ).
in 1893, नई Zealand, तब a self-governing British colony, granted adult महिलाओं the right to vote and the self-governing British उपनिवेश of दक्षिण Australia did the same in 1895, लकिन भी permitted महिलाओं to run for office.
Australia federated in 1901, and महिलाओं acquired the right to vote and stand in federal elections इससे 1902, हालांकि uneven restrictions on Aboriginal women voting in national चुनावों were नहीं completely removed जबतक 1962.
The first European देश to introduce महिलाओं 's suffrage was the Grand duchy of फिनलैंड, then भाग of the रूसी Empire, which also उत्पादित the संसार 's first female members of parliament in the 1907 parliamentary चुनावों.
Norway followed, granting पूरा महिलाओं 's suffrage in 1913.
In most Western देशों, women 's suffrage came after संसार i युद्ध I I, with some important लेट अनुकूलक being फ़्रांस in 1944 और स्विट्ज़रलैंड in 1971.
Women 's suffrage रै generally been पहचाना after political campaigns to obtain it were waged.
In अनेक देशों it थी granted पहले सार्वभौमिक suffrage.
Women 's suffrage is explicitly stated as a right अंतर्गत the Convention on the विलोपन of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, अपनाया by the United Nations in 1979.
The तेरहवीं Tale ( 2006 ) by Diane Setterfield is a gothic suspense novel, the लेखक 's पहला published किताब.
यहोवा 's गवाह is a millenarian restorationist ईसाई denomination with nontrinitarian मान्यताओं distinct from मुख्यधारा christianity.Sources for descriptors : • millenarian : • Restorationist : • Christian : • Denomination : The organization रिपोर्ट्स worldwide membership of over 7.78 million adherents involved in evangelism, convention attendance of over 12 million, और annual मेमोरियल attendance of over 19 million.
वे are directed by the Governing Body of Jehovah 's Witnesses, a समूह of बड़ो in ब्रुकलीन, नई यॉर्क, that establishes all doctrines.
Jehovah 's Witnesses ' मान्यताओं are आधारित on their interpretations of the Bible और they prefer to use उनके own translation, the New संसार Translation of the पावन शास्त्रों.
They believe that the विनाश of the उपस्थित world system at Armageddon is imminent, and that the establishment of God 's किंगडम on धरती is the तभी solution लिये सब problems faced by mankind.
the समूह emerged from the बाइबल छात्र गति —founded in the late 1870s by Charles Taze Russell with the formation of Zion 's Watch Tower ट्रैक्ट समाज —with significant organizational और doctrinal परिवर्तन under the नेतृत्व of Joseph फ्रैंकलिन रदरफोर्ड.
the name यहोवा 's witnesses, based on यशायाह 43:10–12, थी adopted in 1931 to फर्क themselves इससे other Bible छात्र समूह and symbolize a break साथ the विरासत of रसेल 's परंपराओं.
यहोवा 's गवाह हैं best known लिये their door-to-door preaching, distributing literature ऐसे as The Watchtower और Awake !
, और refusing सैन्य service और blood transfusions.
They consider use of the name Jehovah vital for proper इबादत.
They अस्वीकृत trinitarianism, inherent अमरत्व of the soul, and hellfire, which वे consider to be unscriptural doctrines.
वे do not observe क्रिसमस, Easter, जन्मदिन, or अन्य छुट्टियाँ and कस्टम they consider to have pagan origins असंगत साथ christianity.
adherents commonly refer to their देह of मान्यताओं as `` the सच्चाई '' and consider themselves to be `` in the truth ''.
They consider धर्मनिरपेक्ष society to be morally corrupt and अंतर्गत the influence of Satan, and most limit उनके social interaction साथ non-witnesses.
Congregational disciplinary क्रियाएँ शामिल disfellowshipping, उनके term for औपचारिक expulsion and shunning.
baptized individuals who formally leave are माना disassociated and are also shunned.
disfellowshipped और disassociated individuals may eventually be reinstated if deemed repentant.
the religion 's स्थिति regarding ईमानदार आपत्ति to military service and refusal to सलाम national flags रै brought it into conflict with some governments.
Consequently, Jehovah 's Witnesses have महरूम persecuted और उनके activities are बैन or restricted in some देशों.
persistent legal चुनौतियां by यहोवा 's गवाह have influenced legislation related to सिविल अधिकारों in several countries.
Last Tango in पेरिस ( ) is a 1972 Franco-Italian romantic Drama फिल्मी निर्देशित by Bernardo bertolucci जिससे portrays a recent American विधुर who begins an बेनाम यौन relationship साथ a यंग, betrothed Parisian woman.
It सितारों मार्लोन ब्रैंडो, मरिया श्नाइडर, and jean-pierre Léaud.
the film 's raw portrayal of sexual हिंसा and emotional turmoil led to अंतरराष्ट्रीय विवाद and खींचा various स्तर of government सेंसरशिप.
The MPAA gave the film an x दरजा upon release in the United राज्य.
After revisions यहूद made to the mpaa दरजा code, it थी वर्गीकृत as an nc-17 in 1997.
mgm released a censored R-rated cut in 1981.
The फिल्मी has its nc-17 दरजा for `` some explicit यौन सामग्री. ''
Windows XP is an ऑपरेटिंग system उत्पादित by Microsoft for उपयोग on निजी computers, including घर और business desktops, लैपटॉप and media centers.
First released to computer निर्माताओं on August 24, 2001, it is the second most लोकप्रिय version of Windows, based on installed उपयोक्ता आधार.
the नाम `` xp '' is short for `` अनुभव '', highlighting the enhanced user experience.
Windows XP, the successor to Windows 2000 and Windows ME, थी the first consumer-oriented ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली produced by Microsoft to be built on the खिड़कियाँ nt kernel.
Windows xp was released worldwide लिये खुदरा sale on October 25, 2001, और over 400 million नक़ल यहूद in use in जनवरी 2006.
It was succeeded by खिड़कियाँ Vista in January 2007.
Direct oem and retail बिक्री of खिड़कियाँ xp ceased on June 30, 2008.
microsoft continued to sell खिड़कियाँ xp through their System Builders ( smaller OEMs who बेचें assembled कंप्यूटर ) कार्यक्रम जबतक January 31, 2009.
on April 10, 2012, microsoft reaffirmed that extended support लिये खिड़कियाँ XP और दफ्तर 2003 होता समाप्त on अप्रैल 8, 2014 and suggested कि प्रशासकों शुरू preparing to migrate to a नए OS.
the NT -based versions of Windows, जिससे are प्रोग्रामित in C, C++, और सभा, are known लिये उनके improved stability और efficiency over the 9x versions of Microsoft Windows.
खिड़कियाँ XP presented a significantly redesigned graphical उपयोक्ता interface, a change Microsoft प्रचारित as more user-friendly than previous versions of खिड़कियाँ.
in an attempt to further ameliorate the `` DLL hell `` that plagued the पास्ट संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ, improved side-by-side assembly प्रौद्योगिकी in Windows xp allows side-by-side installation, registration और सर्विसिंग of multiple versions of globally shared तन्त्र components in पूरा isolation.
It is also the पहला version of खिड़कियाँ to use उत्पाद activation to कॉम्बैट illegal copying.
During खिड़कियाँ xp 's विकास, the प्रोजेक्ट थी codenamed `` whistler '', after whistler, British कोलंबिया, as many microsoft employees skied at the whistler-blackcomb ski resort.
according to web analytics data generated by Net Applications, Windows XP थी the सबसे widely प्रयुक्त operating प्रणाली जबतक August 2012, when Windows 7 overtook it.
, Windows XP मार्केट share is at 38.99 %, having decreased almost every month since at least November 2007, the first month for जिससे आंकडे हैं सरेआम available इससे Net Applications.
`` Por una Cabeza '' is an अर्जेंटाइन टैंगो with म्यूज़िक और lyrics written in 1935 by कार्लोस Gardel और Alfredo Le Pera क्रमशः.
The name is a Spanish horse-racing phrase अर्थ `` by a सिर '', जिससे refers to a horse winning a race by the length of one head.
The lyrics speak of a बाध्यता horse-track gambler who compares उसके व्यसन लिये horses with his आकर्षण to महिलाओं.
अल्फ्रेडो Le Pera थी a ब्राज़ीलियाई from São पाउलो, a much Italian-influenced क्षेत्रफल in Brazil, और also the जन्मस्थान of Zequinha de Abreu, composer of tico-tico no Fubá.
le Pera and gardel died in an airplane crash in medellín, ( Colombia ), on जून 24, 1935.
पोर una cabeza
The टैंगो has since महरूम performed by numerous tango orchestras.
टैंगो scenes साथ `` पोर una Cabeza '' appear in Delicatessen ( 1991 ), Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ), Schindler 's List ( 1993 ), True झूठ ( 1994 ), टाइटैनिक ( 1996 ), ख़राब Santa ( uncut Version, 2003 ), All the King 's Men ( 2006 ), Planet 51 ( 2009 ), episode 37 of Nip/Tuck ( 2003–2010 ), episode 9 of दक्षिण Korean drama series Sweet जासूस ( 2005–08 ), the शुरूआत and ending क्रेडिट of the दक्षिण कोरियाई drama ब्रॉडकास्ट i 'm sorry, I Love तुम ( 2004 ), and the episode `` Down the खरगोश Hole `` ( 2007 ).
In the फिल्म Frida ( Salma Hayek, 2002 ), gardel is सुना गायन it on a रेडियो.
it is also कोटेड in दाउद Del tredici 's `` Good News !
nilda is Back '' ( इससे the सोंग साईकिल miz Inez Sez ).
In Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ), the टैंगो is performed by the `` The Tango Project '', जो actually appear in the dancing झाँकी starring Al पचिनो ( the recording used is उपलब्धियाँ on one of their CD albums ).
जॉन Williams arranged a संस्करण of the टुकड़ा कि appears on the album `` Cinema Serenade '' with the violin solo performed by Itzhak पर्लमैन.
पर्लमैन and Williams ( conducting ) have भी performed the टुकड़ा together in live कॉन्सर्ट.
In 2012 a नृत्य version थी released by the group `` Da Carrera '' featuring the असली गायन रिकॉर्डिंग by कार्लोस Gardel.
the baroreflex or baroreceptor reflex is one of the देह 's homeostatic mechanisms लिये maintaining रक्त pressure.
it provides a negative प्रतिक्रिया loop in जिससे an elevated blood pressure reflexively कल्याणकारी heart रेट to decrease therefore causing रक्त दबाव to घटी ; likewise, decreased रक्त दबाव activates the baroreflex, causing heart rate to increase thus causing an increase in blood pressure.
the system relies on specialized neurons, ज्ञात as baroreceptors, in the aortic मेहराब, carotid साइनस, and elsewhere to मॉनिटर परिवर्तन in blood pressure और रिले them to the brainstem.
subsequent परिवर्तन in blood pressure हैं mediated by the autonomic nervous system.
Atrial natriuretic पेप्टाइड forms a parallel ऋणात्मक feedback लूप in an endocrinological contrast to the renin-angiotensin system.
The Loma prieta earthquake, भी known as the Quake of '89 and the World श्रेणी Earthquake, थी a major earthquake कि struck the San Francisco खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल of कैलिफ़ोर्निया on October 17, 1989, at 5:04 pm local समय.
Caused by a slip along the सैन Andreas दोष, the भूकंप lasted 10–15 सेकेंड and measured 6.9 on दोनो the moment परिमाण scale ( surface-wave magnitude 7.1 ) and on the open-ended Richter स्केल.
the quake मारे 63 लोगों throughout उत्तरी California, injured 3,757 and left कुछ 3,000–12,000 लोगों homeless.
The भूकंप occurred दौरान the warm-up अभ्यास for the तीसरा game of the 1989 World Series, featuring both of the खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल 's Major लीग Baseball teams, the Oakland एथलेटिक्स and the San फ्रांसिस्को Giants.
क्युकी of game-related खेल coverage, this was the first major earthquake in the संयुक्त States to have its initial धक्का ब्रॉडकास्ट सजीव on टेलीविज़न.
Pawn in the standard staunton पैटर्न
The pawn ( ♙♟ ) is the most numerous and in most circumstances the weakest टुकड़ा in the खेल of शतरंज, historically representing infantry or, अधिक विशेषकर, armed peasants or pikemen.
In chess, each player begins the game with eight प्यादे, एक on प्रत्येक वर्गाकार of the rank immediately in सामने of the other pieces.
( In बीजीय संकेतन, the white प्यादे प्रारंभ on a2, b2, c2,..., h2, जबकि black pawns प्रारंभ on a7, b7, c7,..., h7. )
Individual pawns हैं referred to by the संचिका on which वे stand.
लिये example, one speaks of `` White 's f-pawn '' or `` Black 's b-pawn '', or कम commonly ( using descriptive notation ), `` श्वेत 's किंग 's bishop साहूकार '' or `` Black 's queen 's नाईट pawn ''.
it is भी आम to refer to a rook pawn, अर्थ कोई pawn on the a- or h-file, a नाईट pawn ( on the b- or g-file ), a बिशप pawn ( on the c- or f-file ), a महारानी pawn ( on the d-file ), a किंग साहूकार ( on the e-file ), और a central साहूकार ( on either the d- or e-file ).
the सैन्य शक्तियां of the संसार have differing approaches to the enlistment of homosexual ( gay and lesbian ) और द्विलिंगी individuals.
The armed forces of most developed countries have now removed नीतियों excluding non-heterosexual individuals ( with strict नीतियों on यौन harassment ).
Nations that परमिट gay लोगों to serve खुलकर in the military शामिल the 4 of the 5 members of the UN सुरक्षा परिषद ( United States, United Kingdom, France, and रूस ), the Republic of चीन ( ताईवान ), Australia, इसराईल, South Africa, Argentina, और all NATO members excluding Turkey.
Hydrogen उत्पादन is the family of औद्योगिक methods for generating हाइड्रोजन.
Currently the dominant technology for सीधा production is steam reforming इससे hydrocarbons.
अनेक other methods are ज्ञात सहित electrolysis and thermolysis.
in 2006, the United States थी अनुमानित to have a production capacity of 11 million टन of hydrogen.
5 लाख tonnes of hydrogen यहूद consumed on-site in oil शोधन, और in the production of अमोनिया ( Haber process ) and methanol ( reduction of कार्बन मोनोऑक्साइड ).
0.4 लाख tonnes यहूद an incidental by-product of the chlor-alkali process.
हाइड्रोजन production is an estimated $ 100 billion industry.
a आधार पाइंट ( often denoted as bp, colloquially referred to in the plural as `` bips '', also ज्ञात as a `` बीप '' ) is a ईकाई equal to one hundredth of a percentage point, or एक part per ten हजार, 1/10000.
The वही unit is also ( rarely ) पुकारा a permyriad, literally अर्थ 'for ( every ) असंख्य ( ten thousand ) ', and in that कॉन्टेक्स्ट is written with which looks जैसे a percent चिह्न ( % ) with two extra zeroes at the end ( like a stylized form of the four zeros in the denominator, although it originates as a प्राकृतिक extension of the प्रतिशत ( % ) and permille ( ‰ ) signs ).
a basis पाइंट is defined as:
1 आधार पाइंट = 1 permyriad = एक one-hundredth प्रतिशत
1 bp = 1 = 0.01 % = 0.1‰ = 10−4 = = 0.0001
1 % = 100 bp = 100
Basis points हैं प्रयुक्त as a सुविधाजनक unit of measurement in contexts where percentage मतभेद of less than 1 % are discussed.
The most आम example is interest rates, where मतभेद in ब्याज दरों of less than 1 % per साल are usually सार्थक to talk about.
For example, a difference of 0.10 percentage points is equivalent to a change of 10 basis points ( e.g. a 4.67 % rate increases by 10 basis अंक to 4.77 % ).
Like percentage points, basis अंक avoid the ambiguity between relative और absolute discussions about ब्याज दरों by dealing तभी with the absolute बदलें in न्यूमेरिक मान of a rate.
लिये example, if a report says वहीँ has been a `` 1 % बढ़ाएँ '' from a 10 % ब्याज rate, इस could refer to an increase either इससे 10 % to 10.1 % ( सापेक्ष, 1 % of 10 % ), or इससे 10 % to 11 % ( absolute, 1 % plus 10 % ).
If, however, the report says there has महरूम a `` 10 basis point बढ़ाएँ '' इससे a 10 % interest rate, then we know कि the ब्याज rate of 10 % रै increased by 0.10 % ( the absolute बदलें ) to a 10.1 % rate.
It is common practice in the financial industry to use basis अंक to denote a रेट बदलें in a वित्तीय यंत्र, or the अंतर ( स्प्रेड ) between two interest rates, including the yields of fixed-income securities.
चूंकि certain loans और bonds may commonly be quoted in संबंध to some अनुक्रमणिका or underlying सुरक्षा, वे will often be quoted as a स्प्रेड over ( or अंतर्गत ) the index.
For उदाहरण, a ऋण that bears ब्याज of 0.50 % per annum ऊपर the लंदन Interbank offered रेट ( LIBOR ) is said to be 50 आधार points over libor, which is commonly expressed as `` L+50bps '' or बस `` L+50 ''.
The पद `` आधार point '' has its origins in व्यापार the `` basis '' or the spread between two ब्याज rates.
चूंकि the आधार is प्रायः छोटी, these are quoted multiplied up by 10000, and hence a `` पूरा point '' movement in the `` basis '' is a आधार point.
Contrast साथ pips in fx आगे बाज़ार.
The संबंध between percentage परिवर्तन and basis अंक can be summarized as follows : 1 percentage point change = 100 basis points, and 0.01 percentage अंक = 1 आधार point.
So, a bond whose उपज increases from 5 % to 5.5 % is said to increase by 50 आधार points ; or ब्याज rates कि have risen 1 प्रतिशत पाइंट हैं said to have increased by 100 आधार points.
The British royal Family is the group of close relatives of the monarch of the संयुक्त Kingdom.
the term is भी commonly applied to the वही group of people who are the संबंध of the monarch in her or his भूमिका as sovereign of any of the other राष्ट्रमंडल realms, thus sometimes at variance साथ आधिकारिक नेशनल terms for the परिवार.
Members of the Royal Family belong to, either by जनम or marriage, the हाउस of विंडसर, चूंकि 1917, जब George V बदला the name of the royal हाउस इससे Saxe-Coburg and Gotha.
This decision was primarily taken because ब्रिटेन and her Empire were at war with Germany and दिए the अंग्रेजों Royal Family 's strong जर्मनी ancestry ; it was felt that its public image could be improved by choosing a more अंग्रेजों हाउस नाम.
The नई नाम chosen, Windsor, had absolutely no connection अन्य than as the name of the किला which was और continues to be a royal निवास.
Although in the संयुक्त किंगडम वहीँ is no सख्त legal or औपचारिक definition of जो is or is not a सदस्य of the Royal परिवार, और अलग सूचियाँ will शामिल different लोगों, those carrying the style Her or His Majesty ( hm ), or Her or उसके royal highness ( HRH ) are सदा considered members, which प्रायः results in the application of the term to the monarch, the consort of the monarch, the widowed consorts of पिछला monarchs, the children of the monarch and previous monarchs, the male-line grandchildren of the monarch and पिछला monarchs, and the spouses and the widows of a monarch 's and previous monarch 's sons and male-line पोते.
On 30 November 1917, King George V issued Letters Patent defining who हैं members of the Royal Family ; the text of the notice from the London Gazette is as follows:
In 1996, Her Majesty the Queen modified ये Letters पेटेंट, as थी evidenced by इस Notice from the लंदन Gazette:
In 2013 Letters Patent were जारी to extend a शीर्षक and a style borne by members of the Royal Family to additional व्यक्तियों to be born, evidenced by इस Notice from the लंदन gazette:
सदस्यों and रिश्तेदारों of the British Royal Family historically represented the monarch in विभिन्न स्थान throughout the British साम्राज्य, sometimes for extended periods as viceroys, or for विशिष्ट ceremonies or events.
आज, they often perform ceremonial और social duties throughout the United किंगडम और abroad on behalf of the United किंगडम.
aside इससे the monarch, उनके only constitutional role in the affairs of government is to serve, if eligible और जब नियुक्त by letters पेटेंट, as a Counsellor of State, दो or more of whom कसरत the प्राधिकार of the Crown ( भीतर stipulated limits ) in the indisposal or absence इससे the British realm of the monarch.
in the अन्य realms of the राष्ट्रमंडल रॉयल्टी do not serve as Counsellors of State.
however in प्रत्येक such realm the monarch 's family members may act on निमित्त of, are funded by, और represent the sovereign of that particular state, and not the United Kingdom.
the Queen, her consort, उसके children और grandchildren, as खूब as all former अधिपति ' children and grandchildren hold स्थान in the first भाग of the official orders of पूर्वता in इंग्लैण्ड and Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland.
पत्नियां of the said enjoy उनके husbands ' precedence, और husbands of princesses हैं unofficially लकिन habitually placed साथ their wives as खूब.
However, the महारानी बदला the निजी अनुक्रम of पूर्वता in the royal परिवार in पक्ष of Princesses Anne and एलेक्जेंड्रा, जो henceforth take private precedence over the duchess of Cornwall, जो is otherwise the realm 's उच्चतम ranking woman after the Queen herself.
वो did नहीं alter the relative पूर्वता of other born-princesses, ऐसे as the बेटियां of her younger बेटे.
Haiti ( ; haitian Creole ayiti ), officially the Republic of Haiti ( ; ), is a Caribbean country.
It occupies the पश्चिमी, छोटी portion of the द्वीप of Hispaniola, in the Greater Antillean archipelago, which it साझा साथ the Dominican Republic.
Ayiti ( जमीन of high kyu ) was the indigenous taíno or amerindian नाम for the island.
the देश 's highest point is Pic la Selle, at.
The total area of हैती is और इसके capital is Port-au-Prince.
haitian Creole and French are the official भाषाएं.
हैती 's regional, historical, और ethno-linguistic स्थिति is अद्वितीय for several कारण.
It थी the first independent स्वदेश of Latin America और the caribbean, the first ब्लैक -led republic in the world, and the second गणतंत्र in the Americas when it gained independence in 1804 as part of a successful slave क्रान्ति lasting nearly a दशक.
In 2012, हैती announced इसके intention to seek associate सदस्यता status in the अफ़्रीकी संघ.
हैती is the सबसे populous of the predominantly francophone स्वतंत्र nations in the Americas.
It is one of only two independent nations in the americas ( साथ साथ Canada ) to designate फ्रेंच as an official language ; the अन्य French-speaking areas are सब विदेशी départements, or collectivités, of फ़्रांस.
हैती is the most populous पूरा member-state of the caribbean Community ( CARICOM ).
It is the poorest country in the Americas as measured by the Human Development Index.
Political हिंसा has occurred regularly throughout इसके history, leading to government अस्थिरता.
Most recently, in February 2004, a तख्तापलट d'état originating in the उत्तर of the country forced the इस्तीफा और exile of अध्यक्ष Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
A provisional सरकारी took कंट्रोल साथ security provided by the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti ( minustah ).
Michel Martelly, the current अध्यक्ष, was निर्वाचित in the haitian general election, 2011.
the द्वीप has था a history of destructive earthquakes.
A 7.0 magnitude earthquake struck हैती on 12 जनवरी 2010 और devastated Port-au-Prince.
the उच्चतम विश्वसनीय death count was estimated at 220,000.
haitian सरकारी estimates यहूद higher.
the अध्यक्षीय palace, Parliament and many other important structures were नष्ट, along with अनगिनत घरों and businesses, leaving hundreds of thousands of लोगों homeless.
the देश has yet to रिकवर from the 2010 earthquake ( and subsequent incidents ) due to both the severity of the damage Haiti endured in 2010, as well as a सरकारी that थी ineffective well पहले the भूकंप.
United States aid organizations have donated $ 2 billion.
संयुक्त with other international donations, these निधि हैं intended to योगदान to the rebuilding of the country.
the Bloody Beetroots is the pseudonym of Sir Bob कॉर्नेलियस Rifo, the इतालवी electro हाउस and dance-punk म्यूज़िक निर्माता, dj और photographer.
The खूनी Beetroots is well-known for the ब्लैक venom mask he wears during performances.
in fact, the तभी identifying पब्लिक विशेषता of rifo is the year `` 1977 '' tattooed across उसके छाती, which is दोनो the year कि the producer और punk-rock थी born.
`` The खूनी beetroots DJ set '' contains सर bob कॉर्नेलियस rifo and टॉमी चाय.
a मोटोरोला सलाहकार alphanumeric पेजर used in ब्राज़ील in the 1990s, operated by Teletrim
a pager is a wireless telecommunications यंत्र that receives और displays numeric or टेक्स्ट संदेश, or receives and announces voice messages.
One-way pagers can only receive संदेश, while जवाब pagers and two-way pagers can भी acknowledge, जवाब to, और originate messages using an आतंरिक ट्रांसमीटर.
Pagers operate as भाग of a paging system which includes one or अधिक fixed transmitters ( or in the case of response pagers और two-way pagers, एक or अधिक आधार स्टेशन ), as well as a क्रमांक of pagers carried by mobile उपयोक्ता.
These प्रणालियों can range इससे a restaurant प्रणाली with a single low-power transmitter, to a nationwide system with हज़ारों of high-power आधार स्टेशन.
One of the first practical paging सेवाएं was शुभारम्भ in 1950 लिये physicians in the New यॉर्क City area.
Physicians paid us $ 12 per month for the service and carried a ( 6 oz ) pager that would प्राप्त फोन संदेश within ( 25 mi ) of a single ट्रांसमीटर मीनार.
the system was manufactured by the Reevesound कम्पनी and operated by Telanswerphone.
in 1960, जॉन फ्रांसिस Mitchell combined elements of Motorola 's walkie Talkie और automobile रेडियो technologies to बनाएँ the पहला transistorized pager, and from this पाइंट, paging प्रौद्योगिकी continued to advance, and pager अपनाना continued to expand, जबतक the जल्दी 1990s.
however, by the mid-1990s, as cellular technologies became सस्ता और more widely available, advanced services began to displace paging as a commercial product.
Today, pagers मौजूद largely as niche उत्पाद, ढूंढना preferential use in अनुप्रयोग ऐसे as अस्पताल, पब्लिक सुरक्षा, and retail locations where उनके simplicity, high विश्वसनीयता, and कम cost represent significant advantages.
Reevesville is a town in Dorchester County, South कैरोलिना, संयुक्त राज्य.
the population was 196 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
as defined by the u.S. Office of प्रबन्धन और बजट, और प्रयुक्त by the u.S. जनसांख्यिकी Bureau for सांख्यिकीय purposes only, Reevesville is included भीतर the charleston-north Charleston-Summerville महानगर area.
Frida Kahlo de Rivera ( born Magdalena कार्मेन frieda Kahlo y calderón ; जुलाई 6, 1907 – जुलाई 13, 1954 ) थी a मैक्सिकन चित्रकार, born in Coyoacán, who is best known for उसके self-portraits.
Kahlo 's life began और ended in Mexico City, in उसके home ज्ञात as the ब्लू हाउस.
She gave उसके जनम date as जुलाई 7, 1910, but उसके जनम certificate shows July 6, 1907.
kahlo था allegedly wanted the year of उसके birth to coincide साथ the साल of the beginning of the मैक्सिकन क्रान्ति so कि उसके life would शुरू with the जनम of आधुनिक मैक्सिको.
Her work has महरूम celebrated in मैक्सिको as emblematic of national and indigenous परंपरा, and by नारीवादी लिये इसके uncompromising depiction of the female experience and form.
Mexican culture और Amerindian सांस्कृतिक tradition हैं महत्वपूर्ण in उसके work, जिससे रै been sometimes characterized as Naïve आर्ट or लोक art.
Her work रै also महरूम वर्णित as `` surrealist '', और in 1938 आंद्रे Breton, principal initiator of the surrealist movement, described Kahlo 's art as a `` ribbon around a bomb ''.
kahlo था a volatile marriage with the famous Mexican कलाकार Diego रिवेरा.
She suffered lifelong health problems.
Many of her health problems were the result of a traffic दुर्घटना वो survived as a किशोरावस्था.
recovering from her चोटों isolated her from other people और this अलगाव influenced her works, अनेक of which are self-portraits of one sort or another.
kahlo सुझाया, `` I पेंट myself because I am so प्रायः अलोन and क्युकी i am the विषय I know best. ''
She भी stated, `` i was born a bitch.
i थी born a painter. ''
300px
Theresienwiese on the दिन पहले Oktoberfest 2006
oktoberfest is a 16-day पर्व celebrating beer held annually in Munich, Bavaria, Germany, running from late September to the पहला वीकेंड in अक्तूबर.
It is एक of the most famous कार्यक्रम in Germany और is the संसार 's largest मेला, साथ अधिक than 6 million लोगों from around the संसार उपस्थित the event प्रत्येक year.
To the locals, it is नहीं पुकारा oktoberfest, but `` die Wiesn '', after the colloquial नाम of the fairgrounds themselves.
the oktoberfest is an important भाग of Bavarian संस्कृति, having महरूम आयोजित since 1810.
Other cities across the world also hold oktoberfest celebrations, modeled बाद the original Munich इवेंट.
the म्यूनिख Oktoberfest originally took प्लेस during the सोलह days up to, and सहित, the पहला Sunday in अक्तूबर.
In 1994, the अनुसूची was परिवर्धित in response to जर्मनी reunification so that if the first संडे in अक्तूबर falls on the 1st or 2nd, तब the festival होता go on जबतक October 3 ( German एकता Day ).
Thus, the festival is अभी 17 दिनों जब the पहला Sunday is अक्तूबर 2 and 18 days जब it is October 1.
In 2010, the पर्व lasted until the पहला Monday in October, to चिह्नित the वर्षगांठ of the इवेंट.
the festival is आयोजित in an क्षेत्रफल नामित the theresienwiese ( field, or meadow, of Therese ), often called wiesn लिये short, located निकट Munich 's center.
विशाल quantities of Oktoberfest Beer are खपत, with almost 7 लाख liters served during the 16 day festival in 2007.
Visitors may भी enjoy a wide किस्में of परंपरागत food such as hendl ( मुर्गा ), schweinebraten ( रोस्ट pork ), schweinshaxe ( ग्रील्ड हैम hock ), steckerlfisch ( ग्रील्ड fish on a स्टिक ), Würstl ( sausages ) along with brezeln ( Pretzel ), Knödel ( potato or ब्रैड dumplings ), Käsespätzle ( चीज noodles ), Reiberdatschi ( potato pancakes ), Sauerkraut or rotkohl/blaukraut ( रेड cabbage ) साथ with such bar delicacies as Obatzda ( a spiced cheese-butter स्प्रेड ) and Weisswurst ( a श्वेत सॉसेज ).
a platter साथ cheese and garnishes
Wheels of gouda
चीज is a generic पद for a diverse समूह of milk-based food उत्पाद.
चीज is produced in wide-ranging जायका, textures, and forms.
चीज consists of प्रोटीन और fat from milk, usually the milk of cows, buffalo, बकरियों, or sheep.
It is produced by जामन of the मिल्क protein casein.
Typically, the milk is acidified और addition of the एंजाइम rennet causes coagulation.
The solids are separated और दबाया into final रूप.
Some cheeses have molds on the rind or throughout.
Most cheeses melt at cooking temperature.
सैंकड़ों of प्रकार of cheese इससे various देशों are उत्पादित.
उनके styles, बनावट and जायका निर्भर on the origin of the milk ( including the animal 's आहार ), whether they have महरूम pasteurized, the butterfat सामग्री, the bacteria and mold, the processing, and वृद्धावस्था.
Herbs, spices, or लकडी smoke may be प्रयुक्त as flavoring एजेंटों.
the yellow to red रंग of many cheeses, such as Red लीसेस्टर, is normally formed from adding annatto.
For a few cheeses, the milk is curdled by adding acids such as vinegar or lemon juice.
Most cheeses हैं acidified to a lesser degree by bacteria, which turn milk sugars into lactic एसिड, then the addition of rennet completes the curdling.
Vegetarian alternatives to rennet हैं उपलब्धियाँ ; सबसे हैं उत्पादित by fermentation of the कवक mucor miehei, but others have महरूम extracted इससे various species of the Cynara thistle परिवार.
Cheese is valued for its portability, long life, and high content of fat, प्रोटीन, calcium, and phosphorus.
Cheese is more compact और has a longer shelf life than मिल्क, हालांकि how long a चीज will रखना may depend on the प्रकार of चीज ; labels on packets of cheese often claim कि a cheese चाहिए be consumed भीतर तीन to पाँच days of opening.
generally speaking, hard cheeses last longer than soft cheeses, ऐसे as Brie or goat 's milk cheese.
Cheesemakers निकट a दुग्ध प्रदेश may benefit from fresher, lower-priced मिल्क, और lower shipping costs.
The long भंडार life of some cheese, विशेषकर if it is encased in a protective rind, allows selling when markets are favorable.
Additional ingredients may be added to some cheeses, such as black peppers, garlic, chives or जमाया.
a विशेषज्ञ seller of cheese is sometimes known as a cheesemonger.
To become an विशेषज्ञ in this field, like wine or cooking, requires कुछ औपचारिक education and years of चख and hands-on experience.
इस position is typically responsible लिये all aspects of the cheese inventory ; selecting the cheese मेनू, purchasing, receiving, storage, and ripening.
Legal citation सिग्नल हैं a set of brief abbreviated phrases or शब्द प्रयुक्त to clarify the authority or significance of a legal citation as it relates to a proposition.
Signals help a रीडर quickly discern अर्थ or usefulness of a particular reference जब the सन्दर्भ itself does नहीं provide adequate information.
Most citation signals हैं लगाई in front of the citation to जिससे वे apply.
लिये उदाहरण, in the अनुच्छेद When writing a विधिक argument, it is important to refer to प्राथमिक sources.
To assist पाठक in locating ये sources, it is desirable to उपयोग a मानकीकृत citation स्वरूप.
See generally Harvard Law Review संघ, The Bluebook : A Uniform System of citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ).
Note, however, that कुछ courts may require कोई विधिक papers that हैं submitted to them to conform to a different citation format.
the signal is the phrase `` देखिए generally, '' जिससे indicates कि the citation `` the bluebook : A Uniform प्रणाली of citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ) '' provides general background information on the टॉपिक.
Neil Alden आर्मस्ट्रांग ( अगस्त 5, 1930 – August 25, 2012 ) थी an American astronaut and the first person to चलना on the Moon.
He थी also an aerospace engineer, नवल aviator, परीक्षण pilot, and university प्राध्यापक.
पहले बनने an astronaut, Armstrong थी an officer in the u.S. नेवी and परोसा in the कोरियाई War.
After the युद्ध, he earned उसके स्नातक 's उपाधि at Purdue University and served as a परीक्षण पायलट at the National सलाहकार Committee लिये Aeronautics High-Speed Flight Station, अभी known as the Dryden उड़ान शोध Center, जहाँ he logged over 900 फ़्लाइट.
He later completed graduate अध्ययन at the University of दक्षिणी California.
a भागीदार in the u.S. Air फ़ोर्स 's Man in स्पेस soonest और x-20 dyna-soar human spaceflight programs, Armstrong joined the नासा Astronaut corps in 1962.
He made उसके पहला स्पेस उड़ान, as command pilot of मिथुन 8, in 1966, becoming NASA 's first civilian astronaut to मक्खी in space.
on इस mission, he performed the first docking of two spacecraft, with पायलट David Scott.
Armstrong 's second और पिछला spaceflight was as mission commander of the Apollo 11 चंद्रमा landing, in July 1969.
On this मिशन, आर्मस्ट्रांग और Buzz एल्ड्रिन descended to the lunar surface और spent दो and a हाफ hours exploring, while Michael Collins remained in lunar कक्षा in the Command Module.
Along साथ Collins और Aldrin, Armstrong थी awarded the Presidential Medal of स्वतंत्रता by अध्यक्ष Richard Nixon ; in 1978, President Jimmy Carter presented आर्मस्ट्रांग the Congressional स्पेस पदक of सम्मान in 1978 ; he और उसके पूर्व crewmates received the Congressional सुनहरा पदक in 2009.
Armstrong died in सिनसिनाटी, ओहियो, on August 25, 2012, at the आयु of 82, बाद complications इससे coronary artery bypass surgery.
सचिवालय ( कूच 30, 1970 – अक्तूबर 4, 1989 ) was an American Thoroughbred racehorse कि in 1973 became the first u.s. Triple Crown champion in 25 सालो.
He set race records in all three events in the Series — the केंटकी Derby ( 1:59.4 ), the preakness stakes ( 1:53 ), and the Belmont stakes ( 2:24 ) — records कि still stand today.
he is considered to be one of the महानतम Thoroughbreds of all time.
In 1999, ESPN ranked Secretariat the 35th बेहतरीन खिलाड़ी of the 20th century, the highest ranking racehorse on the list url_http.
He ranked दूसरी पीछे Man o ' War in The Blood-Horse 's List of the Top 100 u.S. racehorses of the 20th Century.
सचिवालय was sired by Bold शासक out of somethingroyal, by princequillo.
He थी foaled at the मर्ग in Caroline County, वर्जिनिया.
Like उसके famous predecessor man o ' युद्ध, Secretariat was a विशाल chestnut टट्टू और was given the same उपनाम, `` Big Red. ''
सचिवालय 's grandsire, nasrullah, is also the great-great-grandsire of 1977 ट्रिपल Crown winner Seattle slew.
Owned by पैनी Chenery, he थी प्रशिक्षित by Lucien Laurin और mainly ridden by Canadian jockey रॉन turcotte, साथ with प्रशिक्षु jockey पॉल फेलिसियानो ( first two दौड़ ), and veteran एडी मेपल ( last रेस ).
He raced in Chenery 's Meadow stable 's ब्लू and white checkered रंगों और his groom थी एडी Sweat.
सचिवालय stood लगभग tall, और weighed, with a 75-inch girth, in his racing prime.
Madrid (, ) is the पूंजी और largest city of स्पेन.
The जनसांख्यिकी of the नगर is roughly 3.3 लाख and the संपूर्ण जनसांख्यिकी of the Madrid महानगर area is गणना to be around 6.5 million.
it is the third-largest नगर in the European Union, after London और बर्लिन, और its metropolitan क्षेत्रफल is the third-largest in the European Union after London and पेरिस.
The city spans a total of.
The नगर is स्तिथ on the manzanares river in the केन्द्र of दोनो the country और the जातियाँ of Madrid ( जिससे comprises the नगर of मैड्रिड, its conurbation and विस्तारित suburbs and villages ) ; this जातियाँ is bordered by the autonomous communities of castile and león और Castile-La मांचा.
as the capital city of स्पेन, सीट of सरकारी, और निवास of the स्पेनी monarch, Madrid is also the political, economic and cultural centre of स्पेन.
The current mayor is ana Botella इससे the People 's Party ( pp ).
the Madrid urban agglomeration has the third-largest GDP in the यूरोपीय संघ and its प्रभाव in राजनीती, education, entertainment, पर्यावरण, media, फ़ैशन, science, संस्कृति, and the arts all योगदान to its status as one of the संसार 's प्रमुख global शहरों.
Due to इसके आर्थिक output, ऊँची standard of living, और market आकार, Madrid is considered the major वित्तीय केन्द्र of दक्षिणी Europe और the Iberian Peninsula ; it होस्ट the सिर कार्यालयों of the vast majority of the major स्पेनी कंपनियाँ, such as Telefónica, Iberia or repsol.
Madrid is the most touristic city of स्पेन, the fourth-most touristic of the महाद्वीप, and the seventh most visited नगर in the संसार according to Forbes.
Is the 10th most livable नगर in the world according to Monocle magazine, in इसके 2010 index.
Madrid भी बाँधने among the 12 greenest यूरोपीय cities in 2010. < संदर्भ name= '' एचटीटीपी : //www.citymayors.com/environment/greenest-cities-europe.html '' > मैड्रिड is currently a प्रत्याशी City for the 2020 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक.
Madrid घरों the headquarters of the संसार Tourism Organization ( wto ), belonging to the संयुक्त Nations संगठन ( UN ), the SEGIB, the Organization of Ibero-American States ( OEI ), और the पब्लिक ब्याज Oversight Board ( PIOB ).
It also hosts major अंतरराष्ट्रीय institutions regulators of Spanish : the खड़ा Committee of the Association of Spanish भाषा Academies, मुख्यालय of the Royal Spanish अकादमी ( RAE ), the Cervantes संस्थान और the न्यास of तात्कालिक Spanish ( fundéu ).
Madrid organizes मेलों as fitur, ARCO, SIMO TCI and the cibeles Madrid फ़ैशन Week.
While Madrid possesses a आधुनिक infrastructure, it रै preserved the look और feel of many of इसके ऐतिहासिक neighbourhoods and streets.
Its लैंडमार्क include the Royal Palace of Madrid ; the Teatro रियल ( Royal थिएटर ) साथ its लौटी 1850 ओपेरा House ; the Buen Retiro पार्क, संस्थापित in 1631 ; the 19th-century National पुस्तकालयों building ( founded in 1712 ) containing कुछ of स्पेन 's ऐतिहासिक अभिलेख ; a large क्रमांक of National museums, और the सुनहरी Triangle of आर्ट, स्तिथ साथ the Paseo del Prado and comprising three art museums : Prado संग्रहालय, the museo Nacional Centro de Arte reina sofía, a museum of modern आर्ट, and the thyssen-bornemisza संग्रहालय, which completes the त्रुटियां of the other two संग्रहालय.
Cibeles राजमहल और Fountain have become the स्मारक प्रतीक of the city.
The path of the via Appia and of the Via appia traiana.
remains of the appian रास्ता in Rome, near Quarto Miglio
Near Rome.
the appian Way ( Latin and इतालवी : via appia ) थी one of the earliest and strategically सबसे important Roman सड़कें of the ancient republic.
it connected Rome to Brindisi, Apulia, in southeast Italy.
इसके महत्व is indicated by its common name, recorded by statius :
Appia teritur regina longarum viarum
`` the Appian way is the queen of the long roads ''
The सड़क is नामित बाद Appius Claudius Caecus, the Roman censor जो began और समाप्त the first खण्ड as a military road to the दक्षिण in 312 BC during the samnite युद्धों.
the draupner wave, a single giant wave measured on New Year 's Day 1995, finally confirmed the existence of freak waves, which had previously been माना near-mythical
Rogue waves ( भी known as freak waves, monster waves, कातिल लहरें, चरम waves, and असामान्य लहरें ) हैं relatively large and spontaneous ocean surface लहरें कि occur दूर out at sea, and are a threat even to large जहाजों and ocean liners.
in oceanography, they are अधिक precisely पारिभाषित as लहरें whose height is more than twice the significant wave ऊँचाई ( SWH ), which is itself पारिभाषित as the mean of the largest तीसरा of waves in a वेव record.
Therefore rogue लहरें are नहीं necessarily the biggest waves मिला at sea ; they हैं, बल्कि, surprisingly large waves लिये a दिए sea state.
Rogue लहरें seem नहीं to have a single distinct cause, लकिन occur where physical कारकों such as ऊँची winds and strong currents cause waves to merge to बनाएँ a single exceptionally large वेव.
Electress Sophia of हनोवर ( 1630–1714 )
The line of उत्तराधिकार to the British सिंहासन is the ordered sequence of सब those people eligible to सफल to the throne of the United किंगडम and the अन्य 15 Commonwealth realms.
the Act of Settlement 1701 bestowed उत्तराधिकार on the electress Sophia of हनोवर and her descendants while excluding Roman Catholics.
the अंग्रेजों government does not प्रकाशित an official list of सब those in line to सफल, लकिन the कार्य of genealogical लेखक and amateur researchers suggests कि there are several हजार लोगों potentially in line.
at a समिट in Perth, पश्चिमी ऑस्ट्रेलिया in 2011, the heads of government of all 16 राष्ट्रमंडल realms agreed to take कदम to adopt absolute primogeniture, समाप्त the exclusion of people शादीशुदा to Roman Catholics, और मेक अन्य changes in the succession नियम.
the line of succession is भी प्रयुक्त to select the Counsellors of राज्य ( और a regent if the need arises ) under the प्रावधानों of the Regency Act 1937.
For पहले versions of the लकीर of succession, see History of the अंग्रेजों लकीर of उत्तराधिकार.
एडवर्ड Montgomery Clift ( अक्तूबर 17, 1920July 23, 1966 ) was an अमरीकी film और स्टेज actor The New यॉर्क times’ obituary विख्यात उसके portrayal of `` मूडी, sensitive यंग मेन ''.
He often played outsiders और `` victim-heroes '' ; examples शामिल the social climber in George Stevens 's a प्लेस in the सूर्य, the anguished कैथोलिक priest in Hitchcock 's I Confess, the doomed नियमित soldier Robert E. Lee Prewitt in Fred Zinnemann 's From Here to Eternity, and the यहूदी gi bullied by antisemites in Edward Dmytryk 's The यंग Lions.
Later, बाद a disfiguring car क्रैश in 1956, and alcohol and prescription ड्रग गाली, he became erratic.
Nevertheless important roles were स्टिल his, including `` the लापरवाह, alcoholic, mother-fixated rodeo performer '' in जॉन हस्टन 's The Misfits, the title भूमिका in हस्टन 's, and the concentration camp victim in Stanley Kramer 's निर्णय at Nuremberg. ''
क्लिफ्ट received चार अकादमी Award nominations during his career, three for बेहतरीन कर्ता and one for Best Supporting कर्ता.
The War on Terror ( also ज्ञात as the Global War on आतंक ) is a term commonly applied to an international सैन्य अभियान जिससे started as a परिणाम of the 11 सितंबर 2001 terrorist हमले on the संयुक्त States.
This resulted in an अंतरराष्ट्रीय military campaign to eliminate al-Qaeda and अन्य उग्रवादी organizations.
The United Kingdom and many other नाटो and non-nato राष्ट्र participate in the विरोध.
The phrase 'War on Terror ' थी first प्रयुक्त by us अध्यक्ष George W. बुश on 20 September 2001.
the Bush administration and the पश्चिमी media have since used the term to signify a वैश्विक सैन्य, political, lawful, and conceptual struggle—targeting both organizations designated as terrorist and regimes अभियुक्त of supporting उन्हें.
it थी typically प्रयुक्त with a particular focus on उग्रवादी islamists, al-qaeda, और अन्य जिहादी समूह.
हालांकि the term is not officially used by the प्रशासन of us अध्यक्ष Barack Obama ( जिससे instead uses the term विदेशी आकस्मिकता आपरेशन ), it is still commonly used by politicians, in the media and by कुछ aspects of government officially, such as the संयुक्त राज्य ' वैश्विक War on Terrorism सेवा Medal.
जर्मनी battleship schleswig-holstein, Westerplatte, सितंबर 1, 1939
विनाशक USS Shaw exploding after her forward magazine was detonated during the Attack on Pearl Harbor
The main कल्याणकारी of World War ii were nationalistic मुद्दे, अनसुलझे मुद्दे, और resentments resulting from World युद्ध I और the interwar period in Europe, in जोड to the प्रभाव of the Great अवसाद in the 1930s.
the culmination of events कि led to the outbreak of war are generally समझा to be the 1939 आक्रमण of कैंडल by Germany and Soviet Russia और the 1937 आक्रमण of the Republic of चीन by the Empire of Japan.
These सैन्य aggressions यहूद the परिणाम of decisions made by the authoritarian सत्ताधारी नाजी elite in Germany और by the नेतृत्व of the Kwantung फौज in जापानी.
World War ii started बाद these aggressive actions were met साथ an official घोषणा of युद्ध and/or हथियारबंद resistance.
The following is a list of gods and other divine और semi-divine figures इससे Greek mythology.
The सूची does not include जीव ; for these, see List of Greek पौराणिक creatures.
The Mitsubishi Galant is an automobile manufactured by Mitsubishi Motors between 1969 and 2012.
The name थी निकला from the फ्रेंच शब्द galant, meaning `` chivalrous ''.
There have महरूम नौ distinct पीढियां, और cumulative sales अभी exceed five million.
it began as a कॉम्पैक्ट सेडान, but over the कोर्स of इसके life has विकसित into a larger mid-size car.
Initial उत्पादन थी only based in Japan, but since 1994 the अमरीकी market has महरूम served by वाहनों assembled at the पूर्व diamond-star मोटर्स ( DSM ) facility in Normal, इलिनोइस.
रक्त pressure ( bp ), sometimes referred to as arterial रक्त pressure, is the pressure exerted by circulating रक्त upon the walls of रक्त बरतन, और is one of the principal vital signs.
When प्रयुक्त without further specification, `` रक्त दबाव '' usually refers to the arterial pressure of the systemic परिसंचरण.
During each heartbeat, blood दबाव varies between a अधिकतम ( systolic ) and a minimum ( diastolic ) दबाव.
the रक्त pressure in the परिसंचरण is principally due to the pumping कार्रवाई of the heart.
Differences in औसत रक्त pressure are जिम्मेदार for blood प्रवाह इससे एक स्थान to another in the circulation.
The रेट of औसत blood flow depends on the प्रतिरोध to flow presented by the blood बरतन.
Mean रक्त pressure decreases as the circulating रक्त moves away from the heart through arteries और capillaries due to viscous losses of energy.
Mean blood pressure drops over the whole परिसंचरण, although most of the पतन occurs along the छोटी arteries and arterioles.
गम्भीरता affects रक्त दबाव via hydrostatic forces ( e.g., during standing ) और valves in veins, श्वास, and pumping from contraction of skeletal मांसपेशियां भी influence रक्त दबाव in रगों.
रक्त दबाव without further specification प्रायः refers to the systemic arterial दबाव measured at a person 's upper भुजा and is a माप of the pressure in the brachial धमनी, the major artery in the upper arm.
A person’s रक्त pressure is usually expressed in terms of the systolic दबाव over diastolic pressure और is measured in millimetres of पारा ( mmHg ), लिये example 120/80.
A वीटो – Latin for `` i forbid '' – is the शक्ति ( used by an officer of the state, for example ) to unilaterally stop an आधिकारिक action, especially the enactment of legislation.
A veto can be absolute, as for instance in the United Nations सुरक्षा Council, whose permanent members ( China, France, Russia, United Kingdom, United राज्य of अमेरिका ) can block कोई रेज़ोल्यूशन.
Or it can be limited, as in the विधान प्रक्रम of the United States, जहाँ a two-thirds vote in both the House and सीनेट may ओवरराइड a Presidential वीटो of legislation.
A veto only gives शक्ति to रोकें changes, not to अपनाना them ( मगर for the rare `` amendatory veto '' ).
यूँ a वीटो allows इसके holder to protect the status quo.
The अवधारणा of a वीटो देह originated साथ the Roman consuls और tribunes.
Either of the two consuls holding दफ्तर in a given साल could block a military or civil decision by the other ; any tribune था the power to unilaterally block legislation passed by the रोमन Senate.
Sulfur dioxide ( also sulphur dioxide ) is the रासायनिक compound with the formula.
It is a toxic gas with a pungent, irritating महकते, कि is released by volcanoes और in various औद्योगिक प्रक्रियाओं.
Since coal and पेट्रोलियम often contain sulfur यौगिकों, उनके दहन generates गंधक डाइऑक्साइड जबतक the sulfur compounds हैं removed before burning the fuel.
Further oxidation of SO2, usually in the presence of a उत्प्रेरक ऐसे as no2, फ़ॉर्म H2SO4, और यूँ एसिड rain.
गंधक डाइऑक्साइड emissions are also a precursor to particulates in the माहौल.
दोनो of these impacts are कारण for चिंता over the environmental impact of these fuels.
Myasthenia ग्रेविस ( from Greek μύς `` मांसपेशी '', `` weakness '', and `` गंभीर '' ; abbreviated MG ) is an असंक्राम्य neuromuscular बीमारी अग्रणी to fluctuating muscle कमज़ोरी और fatigability.
it is an autoimmune disorder, in which कमज़ोरी is caused by circulating antibodies कि ब्लाक acetylcholine receptors at the postsynaptic neuromuscular junction, inhibiting the excitatory effects of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine on nicotinic receptors throughout neuromuscular junctions.
Myasthenia is treated medically with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors or immunosuppressants, और, in चयनित मामले, thymectomy.
The disease incidence is 3–30 cases प्रति million per year and उठती as a result of increased जागरूकता.
MG must be distinguished इससे congenital myasthenic syndromes कि can present similar symptoms but प्रस्ताव no response to immunosuppressive उपचार.
Reflective twisted nematic liquid क्रिस्टल प्रदर्शक.
Polarizing फिल्टर film with a vertical axis to polarize light as it enters.
कांच substrate with ITO electrodes.
the shapes of these electrodes will determine the shapes that will appear when the एलसीडी is turned ON.
लंबवत ridges etched on the surface are smooth.
Twisted nematic द्रव क्रिस्टल.
कांच substrate with common एलेक्ट्रोड film ( ITO ) with horizontal ridges to line up with the horizontal फिल्टर.
polarizing फिल्टर फिल्मी with a आड़ा अक्ष to block/pass light.
Reflective सतह to send light back to viewer.
( in a backlit एलसीडी, this परत is replaced with a light source. )
A liquid-crystal display ( LCD ) is a चपटा फलक display, इलेक्ट्रॉनिक visual display, or video display that उपयोग the light modulating properties of liquid crystals.
Liquid crystals do not emit light directly.
lcds हैं available to display arbitrary बिंब ( as in a general-purpose computer display ) or fixed images which can be प्रदर्शित or छुपा, such as preset words, digits, and 7-segment प्रदर्शक as in a डिजिटल clock.
They use the वही basic technology, मगर that arbitrary बिंब are बना up of a large क्रमांक of small pixels, while other displays have larger elements.
lcds are used in a चौड़ी range of अनुप्रयोग सहित computer मॉनीटर, टेलीविज़न, instrument panels, aircraft cockpit प्रदर्शक, और signage.
They हैं common in consumer devices ऐसे as video players, गेमिंग डिवाइस, clocks, घड़ियाँ, calculators, and telephones, और have replaced cathode रे ट्यूब ( crt ) displays in most applications.
They are उपलब्धियाँ in a wider range of screen sizes than crt and plasma प्रदर्शक, and चूंकि वे do not उपयोग phosphors, they do not suffer image burn-in.
LCDs हैं, however, susceptible to image persistence.
The एलसीडी स्क्रीन is अधिक उर्जा कुशल और can be disposed of अधिक सकुशल than a CRT.
इसके low विद्युत power consumption enables it to be used in battery -powered इलेक्ट्रॉनिक उपकरण.
it is an electronically modulated ऑप्टिकल device बना up of any number of खण्ड filled with liquid crystals और arrayed in सामने of a लाइट source ( backlight ) or reflector to produce बिंब in color or मोनोक्रोम.
Liquid crystals were first discovered in 1888.
by 2008, worldwide sales of टेलीविज़न साथ LCD screens exceeded annual sales of CRT units ; the crt became obsolete for most उद्देश्य.
The Borgata Hotel Casino and स्पा is a luxury hotel, कसीनो, और स्पा in Atlantic नगर, नई Jersey, United States.
It is स्वामित्व by मरीना ज़िला विकास, a joint venture between Boyd Gaming and a divesture विश्वास established by mgm Resorts अंतरराष्ट्रीय.
the $ 1.1 billion casino hotel features 2,002 कक्ष and is the largest होटल in New Jersey.
the borgata opened in July 2003 as a Las Vegas-style megaresort और is the top-grossing casino in Atlantic नगर.
A बोतल of ऊँची potency b-complex vitamin संपूरक pills.
a vitamin ( or ) is an सशुल्क compound required by an सजीव as a vital nutrient in सीमित amounts.
an organic chemical यौगिक ( or सम्बन्धित नियत of compounds ) is called a vitamin जब it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an सजीव, and जरूर be obtained इससे the diet.
यूँ, the पद is conditional दोनो on the circumstances and on the particular organism.
For example, ascorbic acid ( विटामिन c ) is a vitamin लिये इंसानो, लकिन नहीं for most other animals, और biotin और vitamin d are required in the human आहार only in certain हालातों.
By convention, the term vitamin शामिल neither other essential nutrients, ऐसे as dietary minerals, essential fatty acids, or अनिवार्य अमीनो acids ( which are needed in larger amounts than विटामिन ) nor the large क्रमांक of अन्य nutrients कि promote health but हैं otherwise required less often.
तेरह विटामिन हैं universally recognized at उपस्थित.
Vitamins are classified by their biological and chemical activity, not their structure.
यूँ, प्रत्येक `` vitamin '' refers to a क्रमांक of vitamer यौगिकों that all show the biological कार्यकलाप associated साथ a particular vitamin.
Such a set of रसायन is grouped अंतर्गत an alphabetized विटामिन `` generic descriptor '' title, such as `` vitamin a ``, which includes the compounds retinal, retinol, और चार known carotenoids.
Vitamers by definition are convertible to the active रूप of the विटामिन in the body, and are sometimes inter-convertible to one another, as well.
Vitamins have diverse biochemical कृत्यों.
Some have hormone-like कृत्यों as regulators of खनिज metabolism ( such as विटामिन D ), or regulators of cell और ऊतक विकास and differentiation ( ऐसे as some फ़ॉर्म of विटामिन A ).
अन्य फलन as antioxidants ( e.g., विटामिन E और sometimes vitamin C ).
The largest क्रमांक of vitamins ( ऐसे as B complex विटामिन ) फलन as precursors for enzyme cofactors, that सहायता enzymes in उनके कार्य as catalysts in चयापचय.
in इस role, विटामिन may be tightly bound to enzymes as part of prosthetic groups : लिये उदाहरण, biotin is part of enzymes शामिल in making fatty acids.
Vitamins may भी be less tightly bound to enzyme catalysts as coenzymes, detachable अणुओं that function to carry रासायनिक groups or electrons between molecules.
For उदाहरण, folic acid may carry मिथाइल, formyl, और methylene समूह in the cell.
हालांकि ये भूमिकाएँ in assisting enzyme-substrate प्रतिक्रियाएँ हैं vitamins ' best-known function, the अन्य vitamin functions are बराबर important.
Until the mid-1930s, जब the first commercial yeast-extract vitamin B जटिल and semi-synthetic vitamin C संपूरक टैबलेट were sold, vitamins यहूद obtained solely through food intake, और changes in आहार ( जिससे, लिये example, could occur दौरान a particular growing season ) usually greatly altered the types and amounts of vitamins ingested.
however, vitamins have महरूम produced as commodity रसायन and made widely उपलब्धियाँ as inexpensive semisynthetic और synthetic-source multivitamin dietary and खाना पूरक and additives, since the मध्य of the 20th century.
World मुस्लिम population by percentage ( Pew Research Center, 2009 )
संसार Muslim population in millions
islam is the world 's second largest धर्म बाद Christianity.
According to a 2010 study, Islam has 1.62 billion adherents, बनाना up over 23 % of the संसार population.
Islam is the predominant religion in the मध्य East, in Sahel, in the सींग of Africa और northern Africa, and in some parts of एशिया.
Large समुदायों of मुसलमान are भी मिला in चीन, the balkans, और Russia.
Other भाग of the world host large Muslim immigrant communities ; in Western Europe, लिये instance, Islam is the दूसरी largest religion after Christianity, जहाँ it represents 6 % of the कुल population.
According to the Pew Research Center in 2010 there यहूद 49 Muslim-majority countries.
Around 62 % of the world 's Muslims सजीव in South and Southeast Asia, साथ over 1 अरब adherents.
the largest Muslim country is इंडोनेशिया, home to 12.7 % of the world 's Muslims, followed by Pakistan ( 11.0 % ), इण्डिया ( 10.9 % ), और Bangladesh ( 9.2 % ).
परिचय 20 % of Muslims live in Arab देशों.
in the मध्य East, the non-arab देशों of Turkey and Iran are the largest muslim-majority देशों ; in अफ़्रीकी, Egypt और सीरियल have the most populous Muslim समुदायों.
a study conducted by the pew शोध बीच in 2010 and released January 2011 मिला that वहीँ हैं 1.62 billion Muslims around the world.
The study found अधिक Muslims in the United किंगडम than in Lebanon और more in चीन than in Syria.
Rhode Island ( or ), officially the राज्य of rhode Island और Providence Plantations, is a state in the New England प्रदेश of the United States.
rhode Island is the smallest in area, the eighth तनिक populous, लकिन the दूसरी most densely आबादी of the 50 us states behind नई Jersey.
rhode Island is bordered by कनेक्टिकट to the west and Massachusetts to the north and east, और it shares a जल boundary साथ New यॉर्क 's Long Island to the दक्षिणपश्चिम.
Rhode द्वीप was the first of the 13 असली colonies to declare स्वतंत्रता from British rule, declaring itself independent on May 4, 1776, two months before कोई other colony.
The State was भी the पिछला of the तेरह original colonies to ratify the United States Constitution.
rhode Island 's official nickname is `` The Ocean राज्य '', a reference to the State 's geography, चूंकि Rhode द्वीप has several विशाल bays and inlets that राशि to परिचय 14 % of इसके कुल area.
इसके जमीन area is, but इसके total क्षेत्रफल is significantly larger.
Dubai ( ; ', ) is a नगर in the संयुक्त Arab Emirates, स्तिथ within the अमीर of the same नाम.
The अमीर of Dubai is स्तिथ on the southeast coast of the पारसी Gulf on the Arabian Peninsula और is one of the seven अमीरात that मेक up the country.
it has the largest population in the UAE ( 2,106,177 ) and the second-largest land territory by area ( 4,114 km2 ) after Abu Dhabi.
दुबई and abu धाबी, the नेशनल पूंजी, are the तभी दो emirates to have वीटो power over critical matters of national importance in the country 's legislature.
the city of Dubai is located on the emirate 's उत्तरी coastline and heads up the dubai-sharjah-ajman metropolitan क्षेत्रफल.
दुबई is nowadays often misperceived as a देश or city-state and, in कुछ cases, the uae as a पूरे रै been described as 'Dubai '.
the earliest जिक्र of Dubai is in 1095 AD, and the earliest recorded उपनिवेश in the region dates from 1799.
The sheikhdom of दुबई was formally established in 1833 by Sheikh Maktoum बिन Butti al-maktoum when he persuaded around 800 members of उसके tribe of the Bani yas, living in कया was तब the Second Saudi State और now part of Saudi Arabia, to follow him to the Dubai क्रीक by the Abu Falasa clan of the bani yas.
It remained under the जनजाति 's control when the संयुक्त Kingdom assumed सुरक्षा of the sheikhdom in 1892 और joined the nascent United Arab अमीरात upon स्वतंत्रता in 1971 as the country 's दूसरी emirate.
Its strategic geographic स्थान बना the town an महत्वपूर्ण trading hub and by the शुरूआत of the 20th सदी, Dubai was already an important regional port.
आज, दुबई has emerged as a कॉस्मोपॉलिटन metropolis that has grown steadily to become a global city और a कारोबार और cultural hub of the मध्य ईस्ट and the Persian Gulf region.
Although दुबई 's अर्थव्यवस्था was historically निर्मित on the oil industry, the अमीर 's western-style मॉडल of कारोबार drives इसके अर्थव्यवस्था with the प्रमुख revenues अभी coming from tourism, real estate, and वित्तीय सेवाएं.
Dubai has recently attracted world attention through many innovative large construction projects and खेल events.
the नगर रै become सांकेतिक लिये its skyscrapers and high-rise इमारतें, ऐसे as the world 's tallest Burj खलीफा, in जोड to महत्वाकांक्षी विकास projects including man-made islands, hotels, और some of the largest shopping मॉल in the region और the संसार.
इस increased ध्यान has also highlighted मजदूर and इंसान अधिकारों मुद्दे concerning the नगर 's largely दक्षिण Asian paid workforce.
Dubai 's property मार्केट experienced a प्रमुख deterioration in 2008–2009 as a परिणाम of the worldwide economic downturn following the financial crisis of 2007-2008.
However, Dubai रै बना a स्थिर and gradual रिकवरी with सहायता coming from neighboring अमीरात.
the handful of new projects कि are in the pipeline have been समर्थ to सहायता दुबई real estate make a comeback.
As of 2012, Dubai is the 22nd most expensive नगर in the world, और the most महंगी city in the Middle ईस्ट, surpassing इसराईल 's Tel aviv ( 31st ).
दुबई has भी महरूम रेटेड as one of the best स्थान to सजीव in the Middle ईस्ट, सहित by us अमरीकी वैश्विक consulting firm मर्सर जो rated the नगर as the best place to सजीव in the Middle ईस्ट in 2011.
The following is a list of कॉलेजों and विश्वविद्यालयों in the U.S. state of इलिनोइस.
सतह of the अटलांटिक ocean बैठक the Earth 's planetary boundary layer and क्षोभमण्डल.
Waves on an ocean coast.
This एनिमेशन uses Earth science आंकड़ा इससे a variety of sensors on NASA Earth observing satellites to माप physical oceanography पैरामीटर्स such as समंदर currents, समंदर winds, समुद्र सतह ऊँचाई और समुद्र सतह temperature.
an ocean ( ; the World समंदर of classical antiquity ) is a देह of saline जल that composes a विशाल part of a planet 's hydrosphere.
in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of Earth, it refers to एक or सब of the प्रमुख विभाजन of the planet 's World Ocean – they are, in descending order of area, the Pacific, अटलांटिक, भारतीय, Southern ( Antarctic ), और आर्कटिक Oceans.
the word `` sea `` is often used interchangeably साथ `` समंदर '', लकिन सख्ती speaking a समुद्र is a body of saline जल ( possibly a division of the World Ocean ) partly or fully enclosed by जमीन.
Earth is the only planet known to have an ocean ( or any विशाल amounts of open द्रव water ).
लगभग 72 % of the ग्रह 's surface ( ~3.6x108 km2 ) is covered by saline water that is customarily विभाजित into अनेक प्रिंसिपल महासागर और smaller समंदर, with the समंदर covering लगभग 71 % of the Earth 's surface.
In शर्तें of the hydrosphere of the Earth, the समंदर contains 97 % of the Earth 's जल.
oceanographers have stated कि आउट of 97 %, only 5 % of the समंदर as a whole on Earth has been छान.
क्युकी it is the principal component of Earth 's hydrosphere, the संसार ocean is integral to all ज्ञात जीवन, forms भाग of the carbon साईकिल, और प्रभाव climate और weather patterns.
the कुल volume is approximately 1.3 अरब घन kilometres ( 310 million cu mi ) साथ an average depth of.
It is the habitat of 230,000 ज्ञात species, although much of the ocean 's depths remain unexplored and it is अनुमानित that over दो million marine species exist.
the origin of धरती 's महासागर is still unknown, but महासागर हैं believed to have formed in the Hadean period and may have महरूम the impetus लिये the emergence of life.
Extraterrestrial oceans may be रचित of a चौड़ी range of elements and compounds.
the तभी confirmed large stable bodies of extraterrestrial surface liquids are the lakes of Titan, although there is evidence for the existence of oceans elsewhere in the Solar System.
Early in उनके geologic histories, Mars and Venus are theorized to have था large water oceans.
the मंगल समंदर परिकल्पना suggests that nearly a तीसरा of the surface of मंगल was एकबार covered by water, though the water on Mars is no longer oceanic, and a runaway ग्रीनहाउस effect may have boiled away the वैश्विक समंदर of शुक्र.
यौगिकों ऐसे as salts और अमोनिया dissolved in water निम्नतर its freezing point, so कि water might exist in large quantities in extraterrestrial environments as brine or convecting ice.
Unconfirmed oceans हैं speculated beneath the surface of many बौना planets and natural satellites ; notably, the ocean of Europa is believed to have over twice the जल volume of Earth.
The Solar प्रणाली 's gas giant ग्रह हैं also believed to possess द्रव atmospheric layers of yet to be पुष्टि compositions.
Oceans may भी exist on exoplanets और exomoons, including surface oceans of liquid water within a परितारकीय ठहरने zone.
Ocean planets हैं a hypothetical type of ग्रह with a सतह completely covered साथ liquid.
Elvis आरोन Presley ( January 8, 1935 – अगस्त 16, 1977 ) was an अमरीकी singer and actor.
a cultural icon, he is commonly known by the single name एल्विस.
एक of the most popular musicians of the 20th century, he is प्रायः referred to as the `` King of Rock और Roll '' or `` the King ''.
Born in Tupelo, मिसिसिपी, Presley स्थानांतरित to मेम्फिस, Tennessee, with उसके family at the age of 13.
He began his career there in 1954, working with सूर्य रिकॉर्ड owner sam phillips, जो wanted to लाओ the ध्वनि of African-American music to a wider audience.
Accompanied by guitarist Scotty मूर and bassist Bill Black, प्रेस्ली was the सबसे important popularizer of rockabilly, an uptempo, backbeat -ड्राइवn fusion of country and rhythm and ब्लूज़.
RCA विक्टर acquired his contract in a deal arranged by कर्नल Tom पार्कर, जो गई on to manage the सिंगर for over two दशकों.
Presley 's first RCA single, `` heartbreak Hotel ``, released in जनवरी 1956, थी a number-one hit.
He became the leading figure of the newly लोकप्रिय sound of चट्टान and roll with a series of संजाल television appearances and chart-topping records.
उसके सक्रिय interpretations of songs, many इससे African-American sources, and his uninhibited प्रदर्शन style made उसे enormously popular—and विवादास्पद.
In November 1956, he made his फिल्मी डेब्यू in प्रेम Me Tender.
Drafted into military service in 1958, Presley relaunched उसके रिकॉर्डिंग career two सालो बाद with some of उसके most commercially successful work.
He staged few कॉन्सर्ट however, and guided by Parker, proceeded to devote much of the 1960s to बनाना हॉलीवुड फिल्मों and soundtrack एल्बम, most of them critically derided.
In 1968, बाद seven सालो away from the स्टेज, he returned to सजीव प्रदर्शन in a मनाये वापसी television special that led to an विस्तारित लास वेगास कॉन्सर्ट रेसिडेंसी and a string of लाभप्रद tours.
in 1973 प्रेस्ली staged the पहला कॉन्सर्ट ब्रॉडकास्ट globally via उपग्रह, Aloha from Hawaii.
नुस्खा drug abuse severely deteriorated his health, and he died suddenly in 1977 at the आयु of 42.
प्रेस्ली is regarded as one of the सबसे important figures of 20th-century popular culture.
he had a versatile voice and unusually चौड़ी success encompassing many जाति, सहित देश, pop ballads, gospel, and ब्लूज़.
he is the best-selling solo artist in the इतिहास of लोकप्रिय music.
Nominated लिये 14 प्रतिस्पर्धी Grammys, he won तीन, और received the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award at age 36.
He has महरूम inducted into अनेक music halls of कीर्ति.
A कांच of रूट beer with झाग
Root बियर is a carbonated, sweetened पेय, originally बना using the root of a sassafras plant ( or the छाल of a sassafras tree ) as the प्राथमिक स्वाद.
रूट बियर, popularized in North America, आता in दो forms : alcoholic and soft पेय.
the ऐतिहासिक रूट बियर थी analogous to small बियर in कि the process provided a पेय साथ a very कम alcohol content.
Although जड़ें हैं प्रयुक्त as the source of many soft drinks throughout the संसार, often different names are used.
fluorescent खनिज emit visible लाइट जब उजागर to पराबैंगनी light
प्रतिदीप्ति is the उत्सर्जन of light by a substance कि रै absorbed light or other electromagnetic विकिरण.
it is a form of संदीप्ति.
in सबसे मामले, the उत्सर्जित light रै a longer wavelength, और therefore lower energy, than the अवशोषित विकिरण.
However, when the अवशोषित इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक radiation is intense, it is possible for one electron to absorb दो photons ; this two-photon अवशोषण can lead to emission of विकिरण having a shorter wavelength than the absorbed विकिरण.
The उत्सर्जित radiation may also be of the same wavelength as the absorbed विकिरण, termed `` अनुनाद प्रतिदीप्ति ''.
The most striking उदाहरण of प्रतिदीप्ति occur when the अवशोषित विकिरण is in the ultraviolet region of the वर्णक्रम, and thus अदृश्य to the इंसान नजर, and the उत्सर्जित light is in the दृश्य region.
Fluorescence रै अनेक practical applications, सहित mineralogy, gemology, रासायनिक सेंसर ( fluorescence spectroscopy ), fluorescent लेबलिंग, dyes, biological डिटेक्टरों, and, most commonly, fluorescent lamps.
Informal logic, intuitively, refers to the principles of logic and logical thought outside of a औपचारिक setting.
however, perhaps because of the informal in the title, the precise definition of अनौपचारिक लॉजिक is a matter of some विवाद.
Ralph H. Johnson और J. Anthony ब्लेयर define informal logic as `` a branch of logic whose task is to develop non-formal standards, मापदण्ड, प्रक्रियाओं लिये the analysis, interpretation, evaluation, आलोचना and construction of argumentation. ''
इस definition reflects what had been implicit in their अभ्यास and कया others were doing in their informal लॉजिक texts.
Informal लॉजिक is associated with ( अनौपचारिक ) fallacies, critical thinking, the Thinking कौशल Movement and the interdisciplinary पूछताछ known as argumentation theory.
Frans H. van eemeren writes that the लेबल `` अनौपचारिक logic '' कवर a `` collection of normative approaches to the study of तर्क in ordinary भाषा that remain करीब to the अभ्यास of argumentation than औपचारिक लॉजिक. ''
यूएसए सालाना रियल GDP 1910–60, साथ the years of the Great अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
बेरोजगारी rate in the US 1910–1960, with the years of the Great अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The ग्रेट Depression began in अगस्त of 1929, जब the संयुक्त States अर्थव्यवस्था first गई into an economic recession.
Although the देश खर्च two months साथ declining जीडीपी, it थी not until the Wall Street क्रैश of अक्तूबर, 1929 कि the प्रभाव of a declining अर्थव्यवस्था यहूद felt, और a major worldwide आर्थिक downturn ensued.
the market क्रैश marked the beginning of a decade of high unemployment, गरीबी, कम profits, अपस्फीति, plunging farm incomes, and lost opportunities लिये economic growth and निजी advancement.
Although its कल्याणकारी हैं स्टिल uncertain और controversial, the जाल effect थी a अचानक और general घाटा of confidence in the economic भविष्य.
The usual explanations include numerous factors, especially ऊँची consumer debt, ill-regulated markets कि permitted overoptimistic लोन by banks और investors, and the कमी of high-growth new industries, सब interacting to बनाएँ a downward आर्थिक सर्पिल of घटाया spending, falling विश्वास, और lowered उत्पादन.
Industries that suffered the सबसे included निर्माण, agriculture as dust-bowl शर्तें persisted in the agricultural heartland, shipping, mining, and लॉगिंग as खूब as durable goods like automobiles और appliances that could be postponed.
the economy पहुँचे bottom in the शीत of 1932–33 ; then came चार years of very rapid विकास until 1937, when the मंदी of 1937 brought वापस 1934 levels of unemployment.
the अवसाद caused major राजनैतिक परिवर्तन in America.
तीन years into the depression, Herbert Hoover lost the 1932 presidential election to Franklin Delano Roosevelt in a sweeping landslide.
रूज़वेल्ट 's आर्थिक recovery योजना, the नई Deal, instituted unprecedented कार्यक्रम लिये राहत, recovery and reform, and brought परिचय a प्रमुख realignment of American politics.
The Depression भी resulted in an बढ़ाएँ of emigration of people to अन्य countries for the first समय in American इतिहास.
लिये example, कुछ immigrants गई back to their native देशों, and some native US citizens went to Canada, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, and South Africa.
It भी resulted in the द्रव्यमान माइग्रेशन of लोगों from badly hit areas in the Great मैदान and the South to स्थान ऐसे as कैलिफ़ोर्निया and the उत्तर, respectively ( see Okies और the ग्रेट Migration of अफ़्रीकी Americans ).
जातिगत tensions also increased दौरान this time.
By the 1940s immigration था returned back to normal, and करणों अस्वीकृत.
a well-known उदाहरण of an emigrant was फ़्रैंक McCourt, जो went to Ireland, as recounted in his book एंजेला 's Ashes.
The मेमोरी of the अवसाद also shaped आधुनिक theories of अर्थशास्त्र और resulted in अनेक परिवर्तन in how the government dealt साथ economic downturns, ऐसे as the use of stimulus packages, keynesian अर्थशास्त्र, और सोशल Security.
it भी shaped आधुनिक American साहित्य, resulting in प्रसिद्ध novels such as जॉन steinbeck 's `` The Grapes of Wrath `` और `` of चूहे और Men ``.
The Great अवसाद of the 1930s started with the भण्डार market क्रैश of October 1929.
Turkey ( ), officially the Republic of Turkey, is a transcontinental country, located ज़्यादातर on आनातोलिया in पश्चिमी Asia and on ईस्ट Thrace in Southeastern यूरोपीय.
Turkey is bordered by eight countries : बुल्गारिया to the northwest ; Greece to the वेस्ट ; Georgia to the पूर्वोत्तर ; अर्मेनिया, इरान and the Azerbaijani exclave of Nakhchivan to the ईस्ट ; and Iraq and Syria to the southeast.
The Mediterranean समुद्र is to the south ; the Aegean समुद्र is to the वेस्ट ; और the Black Sea is to the उत्तर.
The समुद्र of Marmara, the bosphorus and the Dardanelles ( जिससे साथ रूप the तुर्की straits ) demarcate the boundary between Thrace and Anatolia ; they also separate यूरोपीय and एशिया.
Turkey 's स्थान at the क्रॉसरोड्स of Europe and एशिया makes it a country of significant geostrategic महत्व.
The country 's आधिकारिक language is तुर्की, a turkic language, which is spoken by लगभग 85 % of the population as mother tongue.
The सबसे numerous ethnic group is the Turks, who constitute between 70 % और 75 % of the जनसांख्यिकी according to the World Factbook.
kurds हैं the largest जातीय minority and, according to the same source, number around 18 % of the population जबकि other ethnic minorities are अनुमानित to be at 7–12 %.
the विशाल majority of the population is मुस्लिम.
the area अभी पुकारा तुर्कों has महरूम inhabited चूंकि the paleolithic, सहित various Ancient Anatolian civilizations और thracian peoples.
After सिकंदर the ग्रेट 's conquest, the क्षेत्रफल थी hellenized, जिससे जारी साथ the Roman rule and the परिवर्तन into the Byzantine Empire.
the सलजूक़ Turks began migrating into the क्षेत्रफल in the 11th सदी, starting the process of turkification, which थी greatly त्वरित by the सलजूक़ victory over the Byzantines at the Battle of manzikert in 1071.
the सलजूक़ Sultanate of Rûm ruled Anatolia until the Mongol invasion in 1243, upon which it disintegrated into अनेक small तुर्की beyliks.
Starting from the late 13th सदी, the Ottoman beylik united Anatolia and निर्मित an साम्राज्य encompassing much of southeastern Europe, पश्चिमी Asia और North अफ़्रीकी.
बाद the Ottoman साम्राज्य collapsed following its defeat in World War I, parts of it यहूद occupied by the विजयी allies.
A cadre of young सैन्य officers, led by Mustafa kemal Atatürk और his colleagues, organized a कामयाब resistance to the Allies ; in 1923 वे established the modern Republic of तुर्कों, with अतातुर्क as इसके first president.
Turkey is a लोकतांत्रिक, secular, unitary, constitutional republic साथ a diverse cultural heritage.
Turkey has become increasingly एकीकृत साथ the West through membership in संगठनों such as the Council of यूरोपीय, नाटो, OECD, OSCE and the G-20 major economies.
तुर्कों began full सदस्यता negotiations with the European Union in 2005, having been an associate member of the यूरोपीय Economic जातियाँ since 1963 and having joined the EU कस्टम Union in 1995.
Turkey has also fostered बंद cultural, राजनैतिक और आर्थिक संबंध साथ the मध्य ईस्ट, Caucasus, the Turkic राज्य of Central एशिया and the African देशों through membership in संगठनों ऐसे as the turkic परिषद, Joint प्रशासन of Turkic Arts and Culture, Organisation of Islamic सहयोग और the Economic Cooperation संगठन.
Turkey 's growing अर्थव्यवस्था और diplomatic पहलों have led to इसके recognition as a regional power.
Turkey is the संसार 's 17th largest अर्थव्यवस्था by nominal जीडीपी और the 16th largest by खरीदना power पैरिटी.
Caryn Elaine Johnson, बेहतरीन known as whoopi Goldberg (, ( born November 13, 1955 ) is an American comedienne, actress, singer-songwriter, political activist, author और talk show मेजबान.
Goldberg made her फिल्मी डेब्यू in The Color जामुनी ( 1985 ), playing celie, a mistreated black woman in the गहन South.
She received a nomination लिये the Academy पुरस्कार लिये Best Actress और won her first Golden Globe Award for her भूमिका in the फिल्मी.
In 1990, वो played oda Mae Brown, a wacky psychic helping a slain man ( पैट्रिक Swayze ) सहेजें his lover ( Demi मूर ) in the ब्लॉकबस्टर भुत.
This performance जीती her a second Golden ग्लोब and an अकादमी Award लिये Best supporting Actress ; this made गोल्डबर्ग तभी the दूसरी ब्लैक woman in the history of the Academy पुरस्कार to win an एक्टिंग Oscar—the first होने Hattie McDaniel who won लिये Gone With the हवा in 1939.
Notable later films शामिल सिस्टर Act and सिस्टर Act 2, The Player, Made in अमेरिका, How स्टेला Got उसके नाली वापस, Girl, Interrupted and चूहा रेस.
वो is भी acclaimed लिये उसके roles as the bartender Guinan in Star Trek : The Next Generation, as टेरी doolittle in Jumpin ' जोकर Flash, and as कार्मेन tibideaux in ग्ली, as खूब as the आवाज़ of Shenzi the hyena in The शेर King.
Goldberg रै been nominated for 13 एमी पुरस्कार लिये her work in television.
She थी co-producer of the लोकप्रिय game दिखाएँ Hollywood Squares from 1998 to 2004.
She has been the moderator of the daytime talk show The View since 2007.
गोल्डबर्ग has a Grammy, two दिन Emmys, दो Golden ग्लोब्स, a Tony ( लिये production, not एक्टिंग ), and an ऑस्कर.
In addition, गोल्डबर्ग has a British Academy फिल्मी Award, four लोगों 's चुनाव Awards, and रै been सम्मानित with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
वो is one of the few मनोरंजनकर्ता who have जीती an एमी, ग्रैमी, Oscar, and टोनी पुरस्कार.
augusta is a consolidated नगर in the u.S. राज्य of Georgia, located at the पतन लकीर of the Savannah नदी, at the head of its navigable portion.
As of the 2010 census, the augusta– Richmond County जनसांख्यिकी was 195,844 not counting the unconsolidated cities of hephzibah and Blythe.
augusta is the प्रिंसिपल city of the augusta – रिचमंड काउंटी महानगर Statistical क्षेत्रफल, जिससे as of 2010 था an estimated population of 556,877, making it both the second-largest city and the second-largest metro area in the state after अटलांटा.
It is the 116th-largest city in the United States.
internationally, augusta is बेहतरीन known लिये hosting The Masters Tournament in golf प्रत्येक वसन्त.
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed कॉम्पैक्ट disc जिससे contains data.
the नाम is an एक्रोनिम जिससे स्टैंड लिये `` कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क read-only मेमोरी ``.
Computers can पढ़ा cd-roms, लकिन can नहीं write on उन्हें.
cd-roms are popularly used to वितरित कंप्यूटर software, including वीडियो games and multimedia अनुप्रयोग, हालांकि कोई आंकड़ा can be stored ( up to the क्षमता सीमा of a डिस्क ).
Some CDs, पुकारा उन्नत cds, hold दोनो computer आंकड़ा and audio साथ the latter सक्षम of होने played on a CD player, while data ( ऐसे as software or डिजिटल video ) is तभी usable on a computer ( ऐसे as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ).
the Yellow Book is the technical standard कि defines the format of CD-ROMs.
One of a नियत of color-bound books कि contain the technical विशेषताएँ for सब cd formats, the Yellow किताब, created by सोनी and Philips, थी the पहला extension of कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क डिजिटल Audio.
it adapted the स्वरूप to hold कोई form of data.
The Chicago Blackhawks ( spelled as Black Hawks पहले 1986, and ज्ञात colloquially as the Hawks ) are a professional बर्फ hockey टोली based in Chicago, इलिनोइस.
They are सदस्यों of the Central Division of the पश्चिमी Conference of the नेशनल Hockey League ( एनएचएल ).
वे have won four स्टेनली Cup championships चूंकि their founding in 1926, सबसे recently in 2009–10.
the Blackhawks are एक of the Original Six NHL टीमों, साथ with the डेट्रॉयट Red Wings, Montreal canadiens, Toronto Maple Leafs, Boston Bruins and नई York रेंजरों.
चूंकि the ब्लैकहॉक्स have निभाई their home games at the United Center after having खर्च 65 years playing at शिकागो स्टेडियम.
Lent celebrants carrying आउट a गली procession during पावन Week.
the violet रंग is often associated with penance and detachment.
Similar Christian penitential practice is seen in अन्य Catholic countries, sometimes associated with mortification of the flesh.
granada, Nicaragua.
Lent ( Latin : quadragesima ) is a solemn observance in the liturgical year of many Christian denominations, lasting for a period of लगभग छह weeks अग्रणी up to ईस्टर Sunday.
In the general latin-rite and most Western denominations lent is लिया to चलाएं from राख Wednesday to Maundy गुरुवार ( पावन गुरुवार ) morning or to ईस्टर Eve.
in the कैथोलिक Church, lent lasts until Holy Thursday, while other denominations चलाएं जबतक Easter Eve.
the परंपरागत purpose of Lent is the preparation of the आस्तिक through prayer, penance, repentance, almsgiving, और self-denial.
इसके institutional purpose is heightened in the सालाना commemoration of Holy Week, marking the death, burial और resurrection of Jesus, which recalls the कार्यक्रम of the Bible जब यीशु is crucified on Good शुक्रवार, which then culminates in the जश्न on ईस्टर Sunday of the क़यामत of Jesus Christ.
During lent, अनेक of the वफादार commit to उपवास or giving up निश्चित प्रकार of luxuries as a form of penitence.
the Stations of the क्रॉस, a devotional commemoration of Christ 's carrying the Cross और of his execution, are प्रायः observed.
Many रोमन कैथोलिक and some प्रोटोस्टेंट चर्च remove पुष्प from their altars, while crucifixes, religious मूर्तियाँ, और अन्य elaborate religious symbols हैं often रहमत in बैंगनी fabrics in solemn observance of the event.
In certain pious Catholic countries, कुछ adherents mark the season with the traditional abstention from the consumption of meat.
in कुछ देशों, ग्रैंड religious जुलूसों और सांस्कृतिक customs हैं observed, और the वफादार attempt to विज़िट seven चर्च during पावन सप्ताह in सम्मान of Jesus Christ heading to Mount कलवारी.
lent is traditionally वर्णित as lasting for चालीस days, in commemoration of the चालीस days which, according to the Gospels of Matthew, चिह्नित और Luke, Jesus spent उपवास in the मरुस्थल पहले the beginning of उसके पब्लिक मंत्रालय, जहाँ he endured temptation by the शैतान.
However, अलग ईसाई denominations calculate the चालीस दिनों of Lent differently.
In सबसे Western परंपराओं the Sundays हैं not गिने as part of Lent ; यूँ the period इससे राख बुधवार जबतक ईस्टर consists of 40 दिनों when the Sundays are excluded.
however in the Roman Catholic Church Lent is now taken to end on Holy Thursday rather than Easter Eve, and hence lasts 38 days excluding sundays, or 44 दिनों in total.
इस event, along with इसके pious कस्टम are observed by Catholics, Lutherans, Methodists, presbyterians, और anglicans.
स्थान of Chernobyl nuclear शक्ति plant
The abandoned city of pripyat with Chernobyl संयंत्र in the distance
Abandoned housing blocks in Pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster (, Chornobylska katastrofa – chornobyl प्रलय ) थी a catastrophic nuclear दुर्घटना that occurred on 26 April 1986 at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power संयंत्र in Ukraine ( तब officially the Ukrainian SSR ), which was under the direct क्षेत्राधिकार of the central अधिकारियों of the Soviet Union.
An विस्फोट और fire released विशाल quantities of radioactive अणु into the atmosphere, which स्प्रेड over much of the पश्चिमी ussr and यूरोपीय.
the Chernobyl विपत्ति is widely considered to have been the worst nuclear शक्ति plant accident in इतिहास, and is one of only two वर्गीकृत as a स्तर 7 event on the International नाभिकीय Event स्केल ( the अन्य being the Fukushima Daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति in 2011 ).
The बैटल to contain the संदूषण and avert a वृहद catastrophe ultimately शामिल over 500,000 मजदूर and cost an estimated 18 अरब rubles.
The आधिकारिक Soviet casualty गिनती of 31 deaths has महरूम विवादित, and long-term effects such as cancers and deformities हैं still being accounted for.
In grammar, a subject पूरक is a predicative अभिव्यक्ति कि follows a linking verb ( copula ) और कि complements ( completes ) the विषय of the sentence by either ( 1 ) renaming it or ( 2 ) describing it.
in the पूर्व case, a renaming संज्ञा phrase such as a noun or pronoun is called a predicative nominal.
An adjective following the copula and describing the subject is पुकारा a predicative adjective.
in either case the predicative complement in प्रभाव mirrors the विषय.
विषय complements are used with a small क्लास of verbs called linking verbs or copula, of which be is the most आम.
चूंकि copula हैं stative क्रियाएँ, subject complements are not प्रभावित by any action of the verb.
Subject complements are typically not clause वितर्क, nor हैं they clause adjuncts.
throughout the fifty-five year history of the Grammy Awards, many significant रिकॉर्ड have been set.
इस पेज तभी includes the competitive awards जीती by various artists.
This करता not शामिल the विभिन्न खास awards that are presented by the National अकादमी of रिकॉर्डिंग Arts and sciences ऐसे as Lifetime उपलब्धि Awards, Trustees Awards, Technical पुरस्कार or Legend Awards.
the page however करता include other non-performance सम्बन्धित grammys ( known as the शिल्प & उत्पादन फ़ील्ड ) that may have been presented to the कलाकार ( s ).
Marshall Bruce Mathers iii ( born October 17, 1972 ), better ज्ञात by उसके stage name एमिनेम ( stylized as eminǝm ) और by उसके alter ego पतला छायादार, is an American rapper, रिकार्ड निर्माता, songwriter और actor.
Eminem, साथ साथ उसके सोलो करियर, is a member of उसके group D12, and also one हाफ of the hip हॉप duo Bad Meets Evil, with रॉयस da 5'9 ''.
एमिनेम is one of the best-selling कलाकारों in the world और is the best-selling artist of the 2000s.
He रै महरूम सूचीबद्ध and ranked as one of the greatest artists of सब time by many मैगज़ीन, सहित Rolling Stone पत्रिका which क्रमित him 82nd on its list of the 100 महानतम कलाकारों of सब Time.
The same पत्रिका घोषित उसे The King of Hip हॉप.
सहित his कार्य with D12 and Bad Meets दुष्ट, Eminem रै achieved ten number-one albums on the Billboard 200.
he has बेची more than 100 million रिकॉर्ड worldwide, सहित 42 million tracks and 49.1 million एल्बम in the संयुक्त States.
As an भूमिगत rapper Eminem released his डेब्यू सोलो album, Infinite in 1996.
the album was a नाजुक and वाणिज्यिक विफलता.
he gained mainstream लोकप्रियता in 1999 after the release of उसके major-label debut एल्बम the Slim Shady lp.
The LP also earned एमिनेम उसके पहला Grammy पुरस्कार लिये Best Rap Album.
उसके next two records The Marshall Mathers LP, और the एमिनेम Show, भी जीती Best Rap Album Grammy Awards, बनाना Eminem the पहला कलाकार to जीत Best Rap Album for three लगातार एलपी.
This थी followed by another स्टुडियो release in 2004 titled encore.
Eminem then went on hiatus बाद touring in 2005.
He released his पहला album in five years titled पतन, on may 15, 2009.
in 2010, Eminem released his seventh स्टुडियो album Recovery.
Recovery was an international कामयाबी and was नामित the best selling album of 2010 worldwide, joining the Eminem दिखाएँ, which was the best seller of 2002.
Eminem won ग्रैमी Awards लिये दोनो पतन and रिकवरी, giving उसे a total of 13 grammys in उसके करियर.
एमिनेम रै opened other ventures, सहित his अपना रिकार्ड label छायादार Records with his मैनेजर Paul rosenberg.
He भी रै उसके own radio channel, Shade 45 on sirius xm रेडियो.
Eminem began an acting करियर in 2002, when he स्ट्रक्चर in the hip हॉप drama फिल्मी 8 मील.
He won the Academy Award for बेहतरीन असली Song, बनने the first रैप artist कभी to win the पुरस्कार.
He has भी made cameo appearances in The धो ( 2001 ), मजेदार People ( 2009 ) और the टेलीविज़न series अनुगामी.
The एकड़ is a unit of area used in the imperial और u.S. प्रथागत systems.
an एकड़ is परिचय 40 % of a हेक्टेयर – slightly smaller than an अमरीकी football field.
The acre is no longer commonly used, although a few notable exceptions शामिल the United राज्य, Australia, Burma and the संयुक्त किंगडम ( as of 2010, the acre is no longer officially used in the संयुक्त Kingdom, हालांकि is still used in real estate descriptions ).
It is still used, to कुछ extent, in Canada.
the international symbol of the acre is ac, और is पारिभाषित as 1/640 of a square मील.
The most commonly used acre आज is the international एकड़.
In the संयुक्त राज्य both the international acre and the slightly अलग US survey acre हैं in use.
the सबसे आम उपयोग of the acre is to measure tracts of land.
एक अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़ is defined as 4046.8564224 square metres.
दौरान the Middle आयु, an acre थी the राशि of land कि could be plowed in एक दिन with a yoke of oxen.
एंटोनी लाव्वाज़्ये 's discovery of the विधि of Conservation of Mass led to अनेक new निष्कर्षों in the 19th सदी.
जोसेफ Proust 's law of definite proportions और John Dalton 's atomic theory branched from the discoveries of Antoine Lavoisier.
लाव्वाज़्ये 's quantitative experiments revealed कि दहन involved ऑक्सीजन rather than what was previously विचार to be phlogiston.
The law of संरक्षण of mass, or principle of mass conservation, राज्य कि for कोई system closed to all हस्तांतरण of matter and energy ( both of which have mass ), the mass of the system must remain निरंतर over समय, as system mass can not change quantity if it is not added or removed.
Hence, the मात्रा of mass is `` conserved '' over समय.
the law implies कि mass can neither be निर्मित nor नष्ट, although it may be rearranged in space, or the entities संबद्ध साथ it may be changed in form, as for example जब लाइट or शारीरिक work is रूपांतरित into अणु कि योगदान the वही mass to the system as the लाइट or कार्य had contributed.
the law implies ( requires ) कि दौरान any chemical प्रतिक्रिया, nuclear प्रतिक्रिया, or radioactive decay in an isolated प्रणाली, the द्रव्यमान of the reactants or starting material must equal the द्रव्यमान of the उत्पाद.
The concept of द्रव्यमान conservation is widely प्रयुक्त in many fields such as रसायन, mechanics, और fluid dynamics.
Historically, mass conservation थी खोजा in chemical प्रतिक्रियाएँ by Antoine Lavoisier in the late 18th सदी, and थी of crucial importance in the progress इससे alchemy to the modern natural science of chemistry.
the closely सम्बन्धित concept of matter conservation was मिला to थाम शुभ in रसायन to ऐसे high approximation that it failed only लिये the ऊँची energies treated by the later refinements of आपेक्षिकता theory, but otherwise remains useful and fear सटीक लिये most chemical calculations, even in आधुनिक practice.
In special relativity, needed for सटीकता जब विशाल energy हस्तांतरण between प्रणालियों is शामिल, the difference between thermodynamically closed and isolated systems becomes important, चूंकि संरक्षण of mass is strictly and perfectly upheld तभी लिये so-called पृथक प्रणालियों, i.e. those completely पृथक from all exchanges with the पर्यावरण.
in इस परिस्थिति, the mass-energy equivalence प्रमेय states that mass संरक्षण is equivalent to total उर्जा conservation, जिससे is the first law of ऊष्मागतिकी.
By contrast, लिये a thermodynamically बंद system ( i.e., एक which is बंद to exchanges of matter, लकिन open to exchanges of non-material energy, such as heat and कार्य, with the परिवेश ) mass is ( usually ) तभी approximately conserved.
the input or output of non-material energy जरूर change the द्रव्यमान of the system in आपेक्षिकता सिद्धान्त, हालांकि the change is प्रायः small, since relatively large amounts of ऐसे energy ( by comparison with ordinary अनुभव ) carry only a छोटी राशि of mass ( again by ordinary standards of measurement ).
in खास relativity, mass is not converted to energy, चूंकि energy in सब of इसके फ़ॉर्म सदा retains its समतुल्य amount of द्रव्यमान throughout कोई transformation or translocation into, or out of, a प्रणाली.
However, certain types of matter ( a अलग अवधारणा ) may be converted to उर्जा, so long as the द्रव्यमान of the system is unchanged in the process.
However, if such energy is removed from प्रणालियों, they जरूर lose the mass that is संबद्ध with it.
in general relativity, द्रव्यमान ( और energy ) conservation in expanding आयतन of space is a complex concept, subject to अलग definitions, and neither द्रव्यमान nor energy is as strictly और बस conserved as is the मामला in special आपेक्षिकता और in Minkowski space.
For a चर्चा, see द्रव्यमान in सामान्य आपेक्षिकता.
a pig is कोई of the पशु in the genus Sus, within the Suidae family of even-toed ungulates.
Pigs include the घरेलू pig, इसके ancestor the wild boar, और several अन्य wild relatives.
Young and small सूअर are known as piglets.
Pigs are omnivores और हैं highly social and बुद्धिमान animals.
8-inch, -inch, और -inch floppy disks
8-inch, -inch ( full height ), और -inch ड्राइव
a 3.5-inch diskette 's `` फ्लॉपी '' magnetic material, removed इससे इसके housing
A floppy डिस्क, or diskette, is a disk storage medium रचित of a डिस्क of thin and लचीली चुम्बकीय storage medium, sealed in a rectangular प्लास्टिक वाहक lined with कपड़ा कि removes dust particles.
वे are read and written by a फ्लॉपी डिस्क ड्राइव ( fdd ).
Floppy disks, initially as मीडिया and बाद in और 3.5-inch ( 90 mm ) sizes, यहूद a सर्वव्यापी form of data storage and exchange from the mid-1970s well into the first दशक of the 21st century.
By 2010, computer motherboards were rarely manufactured with floppy ड्राइव support ; `` floppies could be used as an बाह्य usb ड्राइव, लकिन ``, 8 ``, और non-standard ड्राइव could only be handled by बूढ़ा equipment.
जबकि floppy disk ड्राइव स्टिल have कुछ limited उपयोग, विशेषकर with legacy industrial computer उपकरण, they have been superseded by data भंडार methods साथ much greater capacity, such as usb flash ड्राइव, portable बाह्य मुश्किल disk ड्राइव, optical discs, memory cards, and computer networks.
an एनिमेटेड diagram of a cutter
in baseball, a cutter, or cut fastball, is a प्रकार of fastball जिससे breaks slightly toward the pitcher 's glove side as it reaches घर plate.
This पिच is कही between a slider और a fastball, as it is प्रायः thrown तेज़ than a slider but साथ more motion than a ठेठ fastball.
Some pitchers उपयोग a cutter as a way to prevent hitters from expecting उनके regular fastballs.
A common technique प्रयुक्त to throw a कटर is to use a four-seam fastball पकड़ साथ the बेसबॉल नियत slightly off center in the hand.
जब a batter is able to hit a कटर पिच, it often results in नरम सम्पर्क और an easy out, due to the pitch 's movement keeping the ball दूर from the bat 's sweet spot.
the cutter is typically 2–5 mph slower than a pitcher 's four-seam fastball.
In 2010, the average pitch classified as a cutter by PITCHf/x thrown by a right-handed pitcher was 88.6 किमी ; the औसत four-seamer थी 92.1 mph.
`` What It takes '' is a power ballad by अमरीकी hard चट्टान band एरोस्मिथ.
It थी लिखा by Steven Tyler, जो पेरी, और डेसमंड Child.
it थी released in 1990 as the तीसरा single इससे Aerosmith 's critically and commercially कामयाब 1989 एल्बम Pump.
In the video the Making of पंप, A & R man जॉन kalodner described the song as `` a masterpiece ''.
During सजीव प्रदर्शन, Tyler sings the पहला verse a cappella और belts आउट one of his हस्ताक्षर चिल्लाती right before the chorus.
the एल्बम संस्करण of the song is followed by an untitled hidden track.
सिर of Odysseus from a Greek 2nd century BC marble समूह representing Odysseus blinding Polyphemus, मिला at the villa of tiberius at Sperlonga
विवरण of an प्राचीन रोमन mosaic of Ulysses in ट्यूनीशिया
odysseus ( or ; यूनानी :, ), also known by the Roman name ulysses ( ; ), was a legendary Greek किंग of Ithaca और a hero of होमर 's एपिक poem the Odyssey.
Odysseus also plays a key role in Homer 's Iliad and other works in कि same Epic साईकिल.
husband of Penelope, father of telemachus, और बेटे of Laërtes ( or Sisyphus ) and Anticlea, Odysseus is renowned for his brilliance, guile, and versatility ( polytropos ), and is hence ज्ञात by the epithet Odysseus the Cunning ( mētis, or `` cunning प्रज्ञा `` ).
He is most famous for the ten eventful सालो he took to वापसी घर बाद the decade-long trojan युद्ध and his प्रसिद्ध Trojan Horse ploy to कैप्चर the नगर of ट्रॉय.
erie is a statutory Town in Boulder और Weld counties in the u.S. state of कोलोराडो.
The जनसांख्यिकी according to the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी is 18,135 and was अंकित as 6,291 at the 2000 census.
The Town of erie is located just west of I-25 for easy अभिगम to I-70, Denver International Airport और Colorado 's entire सामने Range.
Erie 's नियोजन Area spans 48 वर्गाकार मील, extending इससे the north side of राज्य Highway 52 south to State Highway 7, और between us 287 on the west and Interstate 25 to the ईस्ट.
erie is लगभग 35 minutes from डेनवर अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport, 25 minutes to डेनवर and 20 minutes from बोल्डर.
the फलक of Trustees serves as the विधान and governing देह of the Town of Erie and is जिम्मेदार लिये establishing Town policies and goals.
The Board has the प्राधिकार to अपनाना laws, ordinances और resolutions as needed to conduct the कारोबार of the कस्बा, और by ordinance may enter into contracts or intergovernmental समझौतों to furnish, receive services or to provide लिये सहकारी सेवा delivery.
Appointed by और serving at the pleasure of the Board of trustees, the कस्बा Administrator is the chief ऑपरेटिंग और administrative अधिकारी of the कस्बा and is जिम्मेदार for providing professional नेतृत्व in the प्रशासन and निष्पादन of नीतियों and objectives formulated by the Board.
The mission of the erie Police विभाग is to communicate and कार्य साथ the community to maintain a safe पर्यावरण, prevent अपराधों and enforce the विधि, जबकि protecting the अधिकारों of सब.
erie नगरपालिका विमानक्षेत्र ( EIK ) is owned और operated by the कस्बा of erie और is रणनीतिक located in the Denver-Boulder metropolitan क्षेत्रफल on Colorado Highway 7, a little over three miles वेस्ट of Interstate 25.
The main रनवे is concrete paved and 4,700 feet long.
the is a घर video game कंसोल उत्पादित by Sony Computer entertainment.
It is the successor to the PlayStation 2, as part of the PlayStation series.
the प्लेस्टेशन 3 competes with microsoft 's एक्सबॉक्स 360 and निन्टेंडो 's Wii as part of the seventh generation of video खेल consoles.
it was first released on नवम्बर 11, 2006, in Japan, साथ international markets following shortly thereafter.
The कंसोल थी first officially announced at e3 2005.
Originally नियत for a वसन्त 2006 release date, it थी विलम्बित several times until finally hitting स्टोर्स at the end of the year.
It was the पहला and फिलहाल only console to use blu-ray Disc as इसके प्राथमिक storage मीडियम.
प्रमुख features of the console include its एकीकृत ऑनलाइन गेमिंग service, the PlayStation Network, and इसके कनेक्टिविटी साथ the प्लेस्टेशन पोर्टेबल and PlayStation Vita, in सितंबर 2009 the updated PlayStation 3 पतला, was released.
इस पतला is हल्का and thinner than the असली version, although it lacks PlayStation 2 backwards संगतता ( removed on later असली models ), लकिन notably प्रदर्शित a re-designed logo and विपणन डिज़ाइन.
As of November 4, 2012, 70 लाख प्लेस्टेशन 3s have been बेची worldwide.
Its successor, प्लेस्टेशन 4, is नियत for a q4 2013 release.
साल्वाडोर डोमिंगो फेलिप Jacinto dalí i domènech, 1st Marqués de Dalí de pubol ( May 11, 1904january 23, 1989 ), ज्ञात as साल्वाडोर Dalí ( ), was a prominent स्पेनी surrealist painter born in Figueres, Spain.
dalí was a skilled draftsman, बेहतरीन ज्ञात for the striking और विचित्र images in his surrealist कार्य.
His painterly कौशल are often attributed to the influence of पुनर्जागरण मास्टर्स.
His best-known कार्य, the Persistence of मेमोरी, was समाप्त in 1931.
Dalí 's expansive कलाकारी repertoire included फिल्मी, मूर्तिकला, और photography, in सहयोग साथ a दायरा of artists in a variety of media.
Dalí attributed his `` love of everything कि is gilded and excessive, my passion लिये luxury and my प्रेम of oriental कपडे '' to a self-styled `` अरब lineage '', claiming that उसके पूर्वजो यहूद descended from the Moors.
dalí was highly कल्पनाशील, and also enjoyed indulging in unusual and वैभवशाली बर्ताव.
उसके eccentric manner and attention-grabbing पब्लिक क्रियाएँ sometimes खींचा अधिक ध्यान than his कलाकृति, to the dismay of those जो held his work in high esteem, and to the irritation of his आलोचकों.
पारस Plato by Silanion
The humanities are academic disciplines कि पढ़ाई human संस्कृति, using methods कि are primarily analytical, critical, or speculative, and having a significant ऐतिहासिक element, as distinguished इससे the mainly अनुभवजन्य approaches of the प्राकृतिक sciences.
the मानवता include ancient और modern भाषाएं, साहित्य, philosophy, religion, and visual और performing arts ऐसे as music and थिएटर.
the मानवता that हैं भी regarded as social sciences include history, anthropology, क्षेत्रफल studies, communication studies, सांस्कृतिक studies, विधि, अर्थशास्त्र and भाषाविज्ञान.
विद्वानों working in the humanities हैं sometimes described as `` humanists ''.
However, कि पद भी describes the philosophical position of humanism, which कुछ `` antihumanist `` विद्वानों in the humanities अस्वीकृत.
कुछ द्वितीयक स्कूलों offer humanities classes, usually consisting of English साहित्य, global अध्ययन, and art.
Human disciplines like history, सांस्कृतिक मानवशास्त्र and मनोविश्लेषण study विषय matters to जिससे the experimental method करता not apply, और they have अभिगम instead to the तुलनात्मक method and तुलनात्मक शोध.
The 2005 ब्लू Room Christmas Tree
the श्वेत House Christmas Tree, भी ज्ञात as the Blue रूम Christmas Tree, is the official indoor Christmas tree at the residence of the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States, the White हाउस.
The first अंदर Christmas पेड़ was संस्थापित in the White House sometime in the 19th सदी ( वहीँ are varying दावा as to the exact year ) and चूंकि 1961 the tree has had a प्रसंग motif at the discretion of the पहला Lady of the United States.
The अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका ( POTUS ) is the head of राज्य and head of government of the United राज्य.
The अध्यक्ष लीड the कार्यपालिका शाखा of the federal government और is the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces.
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the कार्यपालिका शक्ति of the United राज्य in the president and आरोप him with the execution of संघीय law, alongside the responsibility of appointing federal executive, diplomatic, regulatory, and judicial officers, and concluding treaties साथ विदेशी powers, साथ the advice and सहमति of the सीनेट.
The अध्यक्ष is further empowered to grant federal pardons and reprieves, और to convene and adjourn either or both houses of Congress अंतर्गत extraordinary circumstances.
चूंकि the founding of the United राज्य, the power of the अध्यक्ष and the संघीय सरकारी have grown substantially और each आधुनिक अध्यक्ष, despite possessing no औपचारिक legislative powers beyond हस्ताक्षर or vetoing congressionally passed bills, is largely responsible for dictating the legislative agenda of his पार्टी और the विदेशी और घरेलू नीति of the United States.
The अध्यक्ष is frequently वर्णित as the सबसे शक्तिशाली person in the world.
The अध्यक्ष is indirectly निर्वाचित by the लोगों through the Electoral College to a four-year term, and is एक of only two nationally elected federal officers, the other being the Vice President of the United राज्य.
The Twenty-second Amendment, adopted in 1951, prohibits anyone from कभी being निर्वाचित to the presidency लिये a third पूरा पद.
It also prohibits a व्यक्ति from होने elected to the प्रेसिडेंसी अधिक than एकबार if that व्यक्ति previously had served as अध्यक्ष, or acting अध्यक्ष, for more than दो years of another person 's पद as president.
In all, 43 individuals have परोसा 55 four-year शर्तें.
On जनवरी 20, 2009, Barack ओबामा became the 44th and current अध्यक्ष.
on November 6, 2012, he थी re-elected and is scheduled to serve until जनवरी 20, 2017.
Senses are physiological capacities of जीवों कि provide data for बोध.
the होश और their आपरेशन, classification, और theory हैं अतिव्यापी topics studied by a किस्में of fields, सबसे notably neuroscience, cognitive मनोविज्ञान ( or संज्ञानात्मक science ), और philosophy of perception.
the बेचैन system रै a specific संवेदी प्रणाली or organ, समर्पित to each भाव.
इंसानो have a multitude of senses.
Sight ( ophthalmoception ), सुनना ( audioception ), स्वाद ( gustaoception ), smell ( olfacoception or olfacception ), and touch ( tactioception ) are the five traditionally recognized.
While the ability to detect अन्य stimuli beyond those governed by the traditional senses exists, including तापमान ( thermoception ), kinesthetic भाव ( proprioception ), पीड़ा ( nociception ), संतुलन ( equilibrioception ), त्वरण ( kinesthesioception ), और various internal stimuli ( e.g. the different chemoreceptors for detecting salt and carbon dioxide एकाग्रता in the blood ), तभी a small number of these can safely be classified as पृथक senses in और of themselves.
What constitutes a भाव is a matter of some बहस, leading to difficulties in धमक कया exactly a sense is.
Animals भी have receptors to sense the world around them, with डिग्री of capability varying greatly between प्रजाति.
Humans have a comparatively weak भाव of smell, जबकि some पशु may lack one or more of the traditional पाँच senses.
Some पशु may also सेवन और interpret संवेदी stimuli in very अलग तरीके.
Some प्रजाति of पशु are able to sense the संसार in a way that humans can not, with some species समर्थ to sense विद्युत और magnetic fields, and detect जल दबाव and currents.
मकड़ियों ( अनुक्रम Araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods कि have आठ legs और chelicerae साथ fangs that inject venom.
They are the largest order of arachnids and रैंक seventh in total species diversity among सब अन्य groups of जीवों.
Spiders are मिला विश्वव्यापी on every महाद्वीप except for Antarctica, और have become established in nearly every habitat साथ the exception of एयर and sea colonization.
As of 2008, at तनिक 43,678 मकड़ी प्रजाति, and 109 families have been recorded by taxonomists ; however, there has been confusion भीतर the scientific community as to how सब ये परिवारों चाहिए be वर्गीकृत, as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications कि have महरूम proposed since 1900.
anatomically, spiders differ from अन्य arthropods in कि the usual body segments हैं fused into two tagmata, the cephalothorax and abdomen, and joined by a small, बेलनाकार pedicel.
Unlike कीट, spiders do not have antennae.
In all except the सबसे primitive समूह, the mesothelae, मकड़ियों have the सबसे centralized nervous systems of all arthropods, as all their ganglia are fused into one द्रव्यमान in the cephalothorax.
Unlike most arthropods, spiders have no extensor मांसपेशियां in उनके limbs और instead extend them by हाइड्रोलिक pressure.
Their abdomens bear appendages that have महरूम modified into spinnerets that extrude silk इससे up to six types of रेशा ग्रंथियों within their उदर.
मकड़ी webs vary widely in size, shape and the राशि of स्टिकी लड़ी used.
it अभी appears that the सर्पिल orb web may be one of the earliest forms, और spiders कि produce tangled cobwebs हैं more abundant और diverse than orb-web मकड़ियों.
spider-like arachnids साथ silk-producing spigots appeared in the Devonian period परिचय, लकिन these पशु apparently lacked spinnerets.
True मकड़ियों have been मिला in Carboniferous rocks from, और हैं very similar to the सबसे primitive surviving order, the Mesothelae.
The प्रमुख समूह of modern मकड़ियों, Mygalomorphae and Araneomorphae, first appeared in the Triassic period, पहले.
A herbivorous species, Bagheera kiplingi, was वर्णित in 2008, but all other ज्ञात species are परभक्षी, mostly preying on insects and on other spiders, हालांकि a few large species भी take birds and lizards.
मकड़ियों use a चौड़ी दायरा of strategies to कैप्चर prey : trapping it in sticky webs, lassoing it with स्टिकी bolas, mimicking the prey to avoid डिटेक्शन, or running it bas.
Most detect शिकार मुख्यतः by sensing vibrations, लकिन the active hunters have अधि vision, और hunters of the genus Portia दिखाएँ लक्षण of intelligence in उनके choice of tactics and ability to develop new ones.
Spiders ' guts are too narrow to take solids, and they liquidize उनके खाना by flooding it with digestive एंजाइमों और grinding it with the bases of उनके pedipalps, as they do not have true जबड़े.
Male spiders पहचानो themselves by a किस्में of complex प्रेमालाप rituals to avoid being खाया by the महिलाओं.
males of most species survive a few matings, सीमित मुख्यतः by their short life spans.
Females weave रेशा egg-cases, each of which may contain hundreds of अंडे.
Females of many species परवाह लिये उनके young, for उदाहरण by carrying them around or by sharing खाना साथ them.
A minority of प्रजाति are social, building सांप्रदायिक webs that may house anywhere from a few to 50,000 individuals.
Social behavior सीमाएँ इससे precarious toleration, as in the विधवा मकड़ियों, to co-operative शिकार और food-sharing.
Although most spiders सजीव लिये at सबसे two years, tarantulas and other mygalomorph spiders can live up to 25 सालो in captivity.
While the venom of a few प्रजाति is dangerous to इंसानो, वैज्ञानिकों हैं now researching the use of spider venom in आयुर्विज्ञान और as non-polluting pesticides.
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness, strength and elasticity कि is superior to कि of सिंथेटिक materials, and spider रेशा जीनों have been inserted into स्तनधारियों and पौधे to see if these can be used as रेशा कारखानों.
As a result of their wide दायरा of व्यवहार, spiders have become common प्रतीकों in art and mythology symbolizing विभिन्न combinations of patience, क्रूरता and creative powers.
Grey 's anatomy is an अमरीकी television medical drama that premiered on the American Broadcasting कम्पनी ( एबीसी ), as a mid-season बदलना on March 27, 2005.
The series has aired nine seasons, और focuses on the fictional lives of surgical interns and residents as they gradually evolve into seasoned डॉक्टर, while trying to maintain personal जीवनदान.
the show 's आधार originated with शोंडा rhimes, who serves as an executive producer, along साथ Betsy Beers, चिह्नित गॉर्डन, क्रिस्टा vernoff, रोब मकई, चिह्नित wilding, और Allan Heinberg.
the series was निर्मित to be racially diverse, utilizing a color-blind casting technique.
it is primarily filmed in लॉस एंजिल्स, California.
the series ' protagonist is dr. मेरेडिथ धूसर ( एलेन pompeo ), who originally is स्वीकृत into the residency program at the fictional Seattle Grace Hospital.
Meredith is assigned to कार्य अंतर्गत Dr. मिरांडा Bailey ( चन्द्रा Wilson ), साथ with dr. Cristina Yang ( Sandra Oh ), dr. George O'Malley ( T. R. Knight ), dr. izzie Stevens ( Katherine Heigl ), और dr. Alex Karev ( Justin Chambers ).
Following o'malley 's death and स्टीवंस ' departure, the हॉस्पिटल 's विलय with रहमत West brings in Dr. जैक्सन एवेरी ( Jesse Williams ) और dr. April kepner ( Sarah Drew ), in the sixth season.
the surgical wing is primarily पर्यवेक्षित by Dr. रिचर्ड Webber ( जेम्स Pickens, Jr. ), who is आखिरकार replaced by Dr. Derek गड़रिये ( Patrick डेम्पसे ), and बाद Dr. Owen Hunt ( केविन McKidd ).
Dr. preston बुर्के ( Isaiah Washington ) departs at the निष्कर्ष of the तीसरा season, and is replaced by Dr. एरिका hahn ( Brooke Smith ), जो leaves the दिखाएँ दौरान the fifth season, and later dr. टेडी altman ( किम Raver ), जो departs at the end of the eighth season.
Introduced in the दूसरी season is dr. Addison मोंटगोमरी ( Kate Walsh ), who leaves the दिखाएँ at the end of the तीसरा ऋतु, in अनुक्रम to लॉन्च उसके own spin-off medical नाटक Private Practice.
dr. callie Torres ( Sara Ramirez ) and dr. चिह्नित Sloan ( Eric डेन ) also enter the show in the दूसरी ऋतु, जबकि the latter मरता in the प्रीमियर of the ninth ऋतु.
Meredith 's half-sister, Dr. Lexie धूसर ( chyler leigh ), appears from season तीन और dies at the end of ऋतु आठ.
Dr. एरिज़ोना Robbins ( Jessica capshaw ) is given श्रेणी regular status at the शुरूआत of the छठे season.
Grey 's Anatomy is the highest-rated drama in the key 18–49 demographic.
Previously among the overall top-ten rated shows in the United States, Grey 's anatomy रै महरूम well प्राप्त by critics.
माना an impact on संस्कृति, the series has received numerous awards, और has also been included in various critics ' शीर्ष टेन सूचियाँ.
the show रै produced several specials, as खूब as distributed all seasons to DVD, and released a संग्रहण of merchandise.
In 2012, धूसर 's Anatomy was named the fifth-highest revenue earning show, in terms of advertising प्रति half-hour.
on may 11, 2012, the श्रेणी was नवीनीकृत लिये a ninth season, जिससे premiered on September 27, 2012.
Schizophrenia ( or ) is a दिमागी disorder characterized by a breakdown of विचार प्रक्रियाओं and by a deficit of typical emotional responses.
आम symptoms शामिल auditory hallucinations, paranoid or bizarre delusions, or disorganized वाक और thinking, और it is accompanied by significant सोशल or occupational dysfunction.
The onset of symptoms typically occurs in यंग adulthood, with a global lifetime व्यापकता of परिचय 0.3–0.7 %.
निदान is based on observed behavior और the patient 's reported experiences.
आनुवंशिकी, early पर्यावरण, neurobiology, and मनोवैज्ञानिक और social processes appear to be महत्वपूर्ण contributory कारकों ; some recreational और prescription drugs appear to cause or worsen symptoms.
Current शोध is focused on the भूमिका of neurobiology, although no single isolated organic कारण रै महरूम मिला.
The अनेक संभावित combinations of symptoms have triggered debate परिचय whether the diagnosis represents a single disorder or a number of अलहदा syndromes.
Despite the etymology of the पद from the Greek roots skhizein ( σχίζειν, `` to विभाजित '' ) और phrēn, phren- ( φρήν, φρεν- ; `` दिमाग '' ), schizophrenia does not imply a `` विभाजित व्यक्तित्व '', or `` multiple personality विकार '' ( which is known these days as dissociative identity विकार ) —a condition साथ which it is often confused in public perception.
बल्कि, the term अर्थात् a `` splitting of दिमागी functions '', क्युकी of the symptomatic presentation of the illness.
The mainstay of treatment is antipsychotic दवा, which primarily suppresses dopamine ( और sometimes serotonin ) receptor activity.
मनोचिकित्सा और वोकेशनल और social rehabilitation हैं also important in उपचार.
in more serious cases—where there is risk to स्वः and others— involuntary hospitalization may be necessary, although hospital stays are now shorter and less frequent than they once were.
The disorder is विचार mainly to affect cognition, लकिन it भी usually contributes to दीर्घकालिक समस्याएं साथ behavior and emotion.
लोगों with schizophrenia are likely to have additional ( comorbid ) conditions, including प्रमुख अवसाद और चिंता disorders ; the आजीवन occurrence of पदार्थ उपयोग विकार is almost 50 %.
Social समस्याएं, such as long-term unemployment, poverty, और homelessness are common.
the average life expectancy of people साथ the disorder is 12 to 15 years कम than those without, the result of increased physical स्वास्थ्य problems and a higher आत्महत्या rate ( about 5 % ).
Paul लेस्ली snider ( April 15, 1951–August 14, 1980 ) थी the estranged husband और मैनेजर of Playboy model Dorothy Stratten, जिसको he murdered पहले हत्या himself the वही day.
the एपिक of Gilgamesh, an epic poem from मेसोपोटामिया, is amongst the earliest surviving works of literature.
the literary history of Gilgamesh begins साथ five independent Sumerian कविताएं about 'bilgamesh ' ( Sumerian लिये Gilgamesh ), king of uruk.
चार of these were प्रयुक्त as source सामग्री for a combined एपिक in Akkadian.
इस first संयुक्त epic, known as the `` Old Babylonian '' version, dates to the 18th सदी BC और is titled बाद its incipit, Shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing सब Other किंग्स '' ).
तभी a few fragments of it have बच.
The बाद `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates इससे the 13th to the 10th centuries BC और bears the incipit Sha naqba īmuru ( `` He who देखी the Deep '' ).
fragments of approximately दो thirds of this longer, twelve-tablet version have been recovered.
Some of the बेहतरीन नक़ल यहूद खोजा in the library ruins of the 7th-century bc Assyrian किंग Ashurbanipal.
The स्टोरी centers on a friendship between Gilgamesh and Enkidu.
Enkidu is a जंगली man निर्मित by the gods as gilgamesh 's equal to distract him from oppressing the people of Uruk.
साथ, they journey to the Cedar Mountain to शिकस्त Humbaba, इसके monstrous संरक्षक.
Later they मार the सांड of Heaven, जिससे the goddess Ishtar भेजना to सजा gilgamesh for spurning her advances.
As a दंड लिये ये क्रियाएँ, the gods वाक्य Enkidu to death.
the second half of the epic focuses on Gilgamesh 's distress at Enkidu 's death, and his quest for अमरत्व.
In order to सीख the secret of eternal जीवन, Gilgamesh undertakes a long and perilous journey.
He learns कि `` The जीवन that you हैं seeking you will never ढूँढें.
जब the gods created man they आवंटित to him death, but life they retained in their own keeping. ''
This quote थी originally attributed to Siduri in the Old babylonian version of the एपिक, and then attributed to the immortal flood hero utnapishtim in the Akkadian version of the epic.
Nevertheless, gilgamesh 's कीर्ति lived on बाद his death, because of उसके great building प्रोजेक्ट, and his account of what utnapishtim told him happened during the flood.
the स्टोरी has been translated into अनेक different languages, and Gilgamesh has since become adapted in works of popular fiction.
A eukaryote ( or ) is an सजीव whose cells contain जटिल structures enclosed भीतर झिल्लियों.
eukaryotes may अधिक formally be referred to as the taxon eukarya or Eukaryota.
The धमक membrane-bound structure कि sets eukaryotic कोशिकाएं apart from prokaryotic cells is the nucleus, or nuclear envelope, within जिससे the जेनेटिक सामग्री is carried.
The उपस्थिति of a nucleus gives eukaryotes उनके name, which comes इससे the Greek ( eu, `` शुभ '' ) and ( karyon, `` nut '' or `` कर्नेल '' ).
सबसे eukaryotic कोशिकाएं also contain other membrane-bound organelles ऐसे as mitochondria, chloroplasts और the golgi apparatus.
All विशाल complex organisms are eukaryotes, including animals, plants and fungi.
the group भी शामिल अनेक एककोशिकीय जीवों.
कोशिका division in eukaryotes is different from that in organisms बगैर a केंद्रक ( Prokaryote ).
It involves separating the duplicated chromosomes, through आंदोलनों directed by microtubules.
There हैं two types of division processes.
in समसूत्रण, one cell divides to उपज two genetically identical cells.
In meiosis, जिससे is required in यौन जनन, one द्विगुणित cell ( having two instances of प्रत्येक chromosome, one इससे प्रत्येक जनक ) undergoes recombination of each जोड़ी of parental गुणसूत्रों, और then दो चरण of कोशिका प्रभाग, resulting in four haploid कोशिकाएं ( gametes ).
Each gamete रै बस एक complement of chromosomes, each a अद्वितीय mix of the corresponding जोड़ी of parental गुणसूत्रों.
eukaryota appears to be monophyletic, and so makes up one of the तीन डोमेन of जीवन.
The दो other डोमेन, Bacteria and Archaea, are prokaryotes और have none of the ऊपर features.
eukaryotes represent a tiny minority of all living बाते ; भी in a human body there हैं 10 टाइम्स more microbes than human कोशिकाएं.
however, due to उनके much larger size उनके सामूहिक worldwide बायोमास is अनुमानित at about बराबर to कि of prokaryotes.
They are माना to have first विकसित लगभग 1.6–2.1 billion years पहले.
The use of अंतरजाल services or तन्त्र with Internet access to defraud पीड़ितों or to otherwise लो advantage of them, लिये उदाहरण by stealing personal information, which can even सीसे to identity चोरी.
a very common form of Internet fraud is the distribution of rogue security software.
Internet सेवाएं can be used to उपस्थित fraudulent solicitations to prospective victims, to conduct बेईमान transactions, or to संचारण the proceeds of धोखाधड़ी to financial संस्थानों or to others connected with the scheme.
Internet fraud can occur in chat rooms, ईमेल, message boards, or on वेबसाइटों.
The International Security Assistance Force ( isaf ) is a NATO -led सुरक्षा mission in अफगानिस्तान that was established by the United Nations सुरक्षा परिषद in December 2001 by Resolution 1386, as envisaged by the बॉन अनुबंध.
Its प्रमुख purpose is to ट्रैन the Afghan नेशनल सुरक्षा Forces ( ANSF ) and assist Afghanistan in rebuilding कुंजी government संस्थानों but is भी engaged in the 2001-present war with insurgent groups.
isaf थी initially चार्ज with securing Kabul और surrounding क्षेत्रों इससे the तालिबान, al Qaeda और factional warlords, so as to allow for the establishment of the अफगान transitional प्रशासन headed by हामिद Karzai.
in अक्तूबर 2003, the UN सुरक्षा Council authorized the expansion of the ISAF mission throughout Afghanistan, और ISAF subsequently विस्तारित the मिशन in चार main चरण over the whole of the country.
From 2006 to 2011, ISAF था been involved in increasingly more intensive combat operations in southern और eastern Afghanistan.
Troop योगदानकर्ता शामिल from the United राज्य, United किंगडम, नाटो सदस्य राज्य and a number of other countries.
the तीव्रता of the combat faced by contributing nations varies greatly, साथ the United राज्य, संयुक्त किंगडम, और कनाडा sustaining the majority of casualties in intensive combat operations, with other contributors sustaining significantly कम.
as of early 2010, वहीँ यहूद at least 700 military bases inside Afghanistan लकिन अधिक were expected to be निर्मित in the coming सालो.
About 400 of ये were प्रयुक्त by American‐led NATO forces और 300 by ansf.
Cocaine ( benzoylmethylecgonine ) ( INN ) is a crystalline tropane एल्कलॉएड that is प्राप्त इससे the leaves of the coca plant.
The name आता इससे `` coca '' and the alkaloid प्रत्यय -ine, forming cocaine.
It is a stimulant, an appetite suppressant, and a topical anesthetic.
Biologically, कोका acts as a serotonin–norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake inhibitor, भी ज्ञात as a ट्रिपल reuptake inhibitor ( ट्राई ).
It is addictive because of its effect on the mesolimbic बदला pathway.
Unlike most molecules, कोका has pockets साथ दोनो high hydrophilic and lipophilic दक्षता, violating the नियम of hydrophilic-lipophilic संतुलन.
इस causes it to cross the blood–brain barrier दूर बेहतर than अन्य psychoactive रसायन and may even induce blood-brain barrier breakdown.
It is illegal to possess, produce, or वितरित cocaine for non-medicinal और non-government-sanctioned उद्देश्य in लगभग प्रत्येक country.
पूरे beef tri-tip rump, roasted medium विरल
The tri-tip is a काटें of बीफ from the नीचे sirloin primal काटें.
It is a छोटी triangular muscle, usually 1.5 to 2.5 पाउंड. ( 675 to 1,150g ) प्रति पक्ष of beef.
the वैज्ञानिक name of this मांसपेशी is tensor fasciae latae, inserted in the fascia lata, the connective tissue covering the quadriceps femoris, also called quadriceps extensor, a group of four मांसपेशियां which in turn insert in the patella, or घुटना कैप of the एनिमल.
Willmar is a city in, and the county सीट of, kandiyohi काउंटी, Minnesota, United States.
The population थी 19,610 at the 2010 census.
Willmar रै been आबंटित zip code 56201 by the संयुक्त States Postal Service.
U.S. Routes 12 and 71 and Minnesota राज्य राजमार्गों 23 और 40 are four of the प्रमुख routes in the city.
The स्पीकर of the United States House of प्रतिनिधि ( or स्पीकर of the House ) is the presiding officer of the कक्ष.
The दफ्तर was स्थापित in 1789 by Article i, खण्ड 2 of the United States संविधान, which states in भाग, `` the House of प्रतिनिधि shall chuse उनके Speaker... ''
The वर्तमान स्पीकर is John Boehner, a Republican जो represents ओहियो 's 8th congressional district.
The Constitution does not आवश्यकता कि the स्पीकर be a Member of कॉंग्रेस, but no non-member has कभी महरूम निर्वाचित to the दफ्तर.
The Speaker is second in the United States presidential line of उत्तराधिकार, after the वाइस President and ahead of the President pro tempore of the u.S. Senate.
Unlike कुछ Westminster प्रणाली parliaments, in जिससे the office of Speaker is considered non-partisan, in the United States the Speaker of the House is a leadership स्थिति और the office-holder actively works to set the बहुमत पार्टी 's विधान agenda.
the स्पीकर प्रायः does not personally preside over debates, बजाय delegating the ड्यूटी to members of the House इससे the majority party.
aside इससे कर्तव्य relating to heading the House और the बहुमत political party, the Speaker भी performs administrative and procedural functions, and represents his or her congressional district.
A bicycle फ़्रेम is the main component of a bicycle, on to which wheels and अन्य components are fitted.
The modern and most आम frame design for an upright सायकिल is based on the सुरक्षा bicycle, and consists of two triangles, a main triangle और a paired rear त्रिभुज.
इस is known as the डायमंड फ़्रेम.
Frames हैं जरूरी to be दमदार, stiff और light, जिससे they do by combining अलग materials and आकार.
`` सरल gravity लोलक '' मॉडल assumes no घर्षण or air प्रतिरोध.
an exemplar एनिमेशन of a pendulum प्रर्दशित the velocity and acceleration vectors
A लोलक is a weight suspended from a so that it can झूले freely.
When a pendulum is विस्थापित बगलों from its resting equilibrium स्थिति, it is विषय to a restoring फ़ोर्स due to gravity that होगा accelerate it back toward the equilibrium position.
When released, the restoring force combined with the pendulum 's द्रव्यमान causes it to oscillate about the संतुलन स्थिति, swinging back and forth.
The time लिये one complete cycle, a left swing and a सही swing, is called the काल.
A pendulum swings with a विशिष्ट period which depends ( mainly ) on इसके लंबाई.
From इसके डिस्कवरी around 1602 by Galileo गैलिली the नियमित motion of pendulums was प्रयुक्त for timekeeping, and was the world 's most accurate timekeeping प्रौद्योगिकी until the 1930s.
Pendulums हैं used to विनियमित लोलक clocks, and हैं used in scientific instruments such as accelerometers and seismometers.
Historically they यहूद प्रयुक्त as gravimeters to measure the acceleration of gravity in geophysical सर्वेक्षण, and even as a standard of length.
The word 'pendulum ' is new Latin, इससे the लैटिन pendulus, अर्थ 'hanging '.
the simple gravity pendulum is an idealized mathematical model of a pendulum.
This is a weight ( or bob ) on the end of a massless cord suspended इससे a, without friction.
जब given an आरंभिक धक्का, it will swing वापस और forth at a निरंतर amplitude.
रियल pendulums हैं विषय to friction और एयर drag, so the amplitude of their swings गिरावट.
The पहला बैटल of सांड चलाएं, also known as First Manassas ( the name used by Confederate forces ), was fought on July 21, 1861, in प्रिंस William County, Virginia, near the city of Manassas.
It थी the पहला major land battle of the American Civil युद्ध.
Just months after the प्रारंभ of the war at फोर्ट Sumter, the उत्तरी public clamored लिये a कूच विरूद्ध the Confederate पूंजी of Richmond, Virginia, which वे अपेक्षित to bring an early end to the rebellion.
yielding to political pressure, Brig. Gen. Irvin mcdowell led उसके unseasoned संघ फौज आरपार सांड चलाएं विरूद्ध the बराबर अनुभवहीन Confederate Army of Brig. gen. P. G. T. beauregard camped निकट manassas जंक्शन.
McDowell 's ambitious योजना for a आश्चर्य flank आक्रमण on the confederate left थी poorly चलाया by उसके officers and men ; nevertheless, the Confederates, जो had been नियोजन to attack the Union left flank, मिला themselves at an initial disadvantage.
confederate reinforcements under ब्रिगेडियर. Gen. जोसेफ E. johnston arrived from the Shenandoah Valley by railroad and the कोर्स of the battle quickly changed.
A ब्रिगेड of Virginians अंतर्गत a relatively unknown colonel इससे the Virginia सैन्य संस्थान, Thomas J. Jackson, stood their ground and जैक्सन received उसके famous nickname, `` Stonewall Jackson ''.
The Confederates then launched a दमदार counterattack, and as the Union troops began withdrawing under आग, many panicked and it turned into a rout as McDowell 's मेन frantically ran without order in the direction of Washington, D.C.
दोनो सेना यहूद sobered by the fierce fighting and अनेक हताहत, और एहसास the war was going to be much longer and bloodier than either had anticipated.
अंधड़ निकट garajau, Madeira
Weather is the state of the माहौल, to the उपाधि that it is hot or cold, गीला or dry, calm or stormy, clear or cloudy.
सबसे मौसम phenomena occur in the क्षोभमण्डल, बस below the stratosphere.
Weather generally refers to day-to-day temperature और precipitation कार्यकलाप, whereas climate is the पद for the average वायुमंडलीय शर्तें over longer अवधि of time.
जब used बगैर qualification, `` weather '' is understood to be the मौसम of धरती.
मौसम is चलित by एयर pressure ( temperature and नमी ) differences between one place और another.
These pressure और temperature differences can occur due to the sun angle at any particular spot, which varies by latitude from the tropics.
The strong temperature contrast between polar और tropical एयर देता rise to the जेट स्ट्रीम.
मौसम प्रणालियों in the mid-latitudes, ऐसे as extratropical cyclones, are caused by instabilities of the jet stream प्रवाह.
क्युकी the धरती 's अक्ष is tilted relative to its orbital प्लेन, sunlight is incident at different angles at different times of the year.
On Earth 's surface, temperatures usually range ±40 °C ( −40 °F to 100 °F ) annually.
over हज़ारों of years, changes in Earth 's orbit affect the राशि और वितरण of solar energy received by the धरती and influence long-term climate and वैश्विक जलवायु बदलें.
सतह temperature differences in फेरे cause pressure मतभेद.
Higher altitudes हैं cooler than निम्नतर altitudes due to मतभेद in compressional heating.
मौसम forecasting is the application of science और प्रौद्योगिकी to predict the state of the atmosphere for a future time and a दिए स्थान.
the atmosphere is a chaotic system, so small परिवर्तन to एक part of the system can grow to have large effects on the system as a whole.
Human कोशिशें to control the weather have occurred throughout human history, and वहीँ is evidence that human कार्यकलाप ऐसे as agriculture and उद्योग रै inadvertently modified weather patterns.
Studying कैसा the weather works on other ग्रह रै महरूम helpful in understanding कैसा weather works on Earth.
a famous landmark in the Solar System, बृहस्पति 's Great Red Spot, is an anticyclonic storm known to have existed लिये at तनिक 300 सालो.
However, weather is नहीं limited to planetary लाशें.
a star 's corona is constantly being lost to space, creating कया is essentially a very पतला atmosphere throughout the Solar System.
the movement of द्रव्यमान ejected from the सूर्य is ज्ञात as the solar हवा.
Katy पेरी is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter इससे Santa Barbara, California.
वो हस्ताक्षरित with Capitol रिकॉर्ड.
Perry has released three स्टुडियो एल्बम, including उसके डेब्यू ईसाई प्रयत्न Katy Hudson, One of the लड़कों, and Teenage Dream.
Perry 's mainstream career was kicked बंद with the massive चार्ट कामयाबी of उसके debut single `` i Kissed a लड़की ``.
During her career, Perry has महरूम मनोनीत लिये numerous major music पुरस्कार, primarily for Teenage Dream and एक of the लड़कों.
The following is a list of sovereign states and territories where English is an आधिकारिक language or language of government.
In 2012, वहीँ यहूद 88 राज्य in total ( 60 sovereign राज्य और 28 non-sovereign राज्य ).
In many countries English is the dominant language, लकिन does not have official status.
in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, English is बोला by the विशाल majority of the जनसांख्यिकी और is the only language प्रयुक्त in government institutions, but ऑस्ट्रेलिया करता नहीं have an official भाषा.
the मामला is the same in the संयुक्त किंगडम and the United States, though अनेक states and regions within the U.S. do have अंग्रेज़ी as an आधिकारिक language.
अंग्रेज़ी is the dominant भाषा of नई जीलैंड और an official language of कनाडा ( along with French ), India ( along with हिंदी and अनेक other languages ), Ireland ( along with Irish ), and the फिलीपीन ( along साथ tagalog ).
English is the एकमात्र आधिकारिक language of the राष्ट्रमंडल of Nations and the राष्ट्रमंडल Games.
English is one of the आधिकारिक languages of the United Nations, the European Union and the International Olympic Committee.
अनेक of ये countries हैं वर्तमान or former colonies or dependencies of the United Kingdom ( देखिए also British साम्राज्य ), or of the United States, itself a पूर्व colony of the uk.
Notable exceptions include रवांडा, जिससे थी a former Belgian उपनिवेश and इरित्रिया, जिससे was an Italian उपनिवेश जहाँ the British Empire spanned इसके control तभी in World War II and shortly after ( 1941-1952 ).
India 's linguistic picture is जटिल.
according to the संविधान of इण्डिया, `` हिंदी in the Devanagari स्क्रिप्ट '' is the official language of the union ; and अंग्रेज़ी the 'subsidiary official language ' ; however, English is mandated for the authoritative texts of all federal laws and Supreme अदालत decisions and ( along साथ Hindi ) is एक of the दो भाषाएं of the भारतीय पार्लियामेंट.
English is used लगभग exclusively लिये उच्चतर education, कारोबार और science.
Courses in majority of the schools are taught exclusively in English.
अंग्रेज़ी is extensively प्रयुक्त लिये administrative उद्देश्य in इण्डिया.
India is the second-largest English-speaking country in the world by number of speakers, बाद the United राज्य.
as such, अनेक consider English to be the de facto आधिकारिक भाषा of India.
See आधिकारिक languages of India.
The linguistic मेकअप of Pakistan is similarly complex.
While the नेशनल भाषा is उर्दू, English is an official language and used in कारोबार, government and विधि.
अंग्रेज़ी is a compulsory language in स्कूलों.
All school courses are taught in English.
Pakistan is the 9th largest English-speaking देश in the संसार by जनसांख्यिकी.
Southern Cone (, ) is a geographic प्रदेश composed of the southernmost areas of दक्षिण America, south of the Tropic of Capricorn.
हालांकि geographically this includes Southern और part of southeast ( São Paulo ) of ब्राज़ील, in terms of राजनैतिक भूगोल the Southern कोन has traditionally comprised Argentina, Chile, पैराग्वे, और उरुग्वे.
In the narrowest sense, it तभी covers अर्जेंटीना, चिली and Uruguay, bounded on the उत्तर by the राज्य of ब्राज़ील, पैराग्वे, Bolivia and पेरू, on the वेस्ट by the Pacific Ocean, and south to the junction between the Pacific and Atlantic महासागर, which it is the closest continental क्षेत्रफल of अंटार्कटिक ( 1000 km ).
ऊँची जीवन expectancy, the highest Human विकास अनुक्रमणिका of लैटिन America, high Standard of जीना, significant participation in the global markets and the उभरते economy of इसके members make the Southern कोन the most prosperous macro-region in South America.
लिये multi-event athletic competitions देखिए track and Field प्रतियोगिताओं, खण्ड `` बैठक ''.
बैठक are sometimes held around सम्मेलन tables.
In a बैठक, दो or more people come together to discuss one or more विषय, often in a औपचारिक setting.
An आधिकारिक game in बेसबॉल, also sometimes पुकारा a regulation खेल, is a game कि रै progressed beyond the point at which it can be considered complete if जरुरी.
This is approximately the halfway पाइंट of the खेल.
In the मामला of inclement मौसम, कोई खेल जिससे has पहुँचे this point may be stopped and shortened as needed, with the result होने फाइनल, and all records और statistics counted.
A खेल which has नहीं reached this point पहले being रोका is either माना a निलंबित game ( to be जारी at a later तिथि इससे the पाइंट of stoppage ), or is बस रद्द and replayed from the प्रारंभ.
( इस depends on the rules of each individual league. )
In either case, no आंकडे are counted until the game becomes आधिकारिक.
चूंकि most पेशेवर बेसबॉल games are nine पारी long, the पांचवां inning is प्रयुक्त as the threshold for an official खेल.
If the visiting team is leading, or the game is tied, the end of the fifth inning marks this point.
If the home team ( which bats last ) is already ahead in the score, and theoretically would नहीं need इसके half of the पांचवां inning, then 41⁄2 innings ( i.e., the मध्य of the fifth ) is considered an official खेल.
the खेल is also considered आधिकारिक if the home team स्कोर to लो the lead in the नीचे of the पांचवां inning, since the खेल would end immediately if the same thing happened in the ninth.
In nearly all मामले, the `` आधिकारिक खेल '' status is used to determine whether a बरसात जाँच will be honored लिये fans holding tickets.
If a game is started but करता not पहुँचें the point of becoming official, प्रशंसक हैं entitled to a new टिकट लिये the make-up game or ( in most cases ) कोई other उपलब्धियाँ game of their चुनाव.
If a game is halted बाद it becomes आधिकारिक, the खेल is बस shortened और no rain जाँच is given.
The `` official खेल '' statistic received some attention during the 1995 season, when Cal ripken, Jr. थी approaching the record for consecutive games played, previously आयोजित by Lou Gehrig.
Large numbers were hung on the side of the B & o Warehouse at Oriole Park at camden Yards to दिखाएँ the number of games in Ripken 's streak.
Each day, a new number थी unfurled दौरान the पांचवां inning बाद प्रत्येक game had become official ( चूंकि the statistic होता not have counted if the खेल था been रोका before that point ).
A similar practice रै महरूम used to गिनती down toward the demolition of अनेक स्टेडियम ( including दिग्गजों स्टेडियम in Philadelphia in 2003, Busch Memorial स्टेडियम in St. Louis in 2005, and the असली Yankee स्टेडियम और Shea Stadium in नई York नगर in 2008 ) ; as प्रत्येक game became official, the टोली होता unveil a new ( lower ) number प्रर्दशित the क्रमांक of games left to be निभाई in the स्टेडियम.
A telephone number or phone number is a अनुक्रम of digits used to call इससे एक telephone लकीर to another in a public switched telephone network.
When telephone numbers यहूद invented, they were छोटी — as few as एक, दो or three अंक — and यहूद given orally to a switchboard ऑपरेटर.
As फोन प्रणालियों have grown and interconnected to encompass the संसार, टेलीफोन संख्याएँ have become longer.
in जोड to telephones, they अभी अभिगम other devices, such as computers and फैक्स machines.
The क्रमांक contains the information necessary to पहचानो uniquely the intended endpoint लिये the telephone कॉल.
प्रत्येक such endpoint जरूर have a अद्वितीय number within the पब्लिक switched telephone network.
Most countries use fixed लंबाई numbers ( for normal lines at तनिक ) और therefore the क्रमांक of endpoints determines the जरुरी लंबाई of the telephone number.
It is also संभावित for each सदस्य to have a set of shorter numbers for the endpoints most प्रायः used.
ये `` आशुलिपि '' or `` गति कॉलिंग '' numbers are automatically अनूदित to अद्वितीय telephone numbers before the call can be कनेक्ट.
कुछ special services have उनके own short numbers ( e.g., 1-1-9, 9-1-1, 0-0-0, 9-9-9, 1-1-1, and 1-1-2 होने the आपात Services numbers for China, जापानी, South कोरियाई, Taiwan और श्री Lanka ; कनाडा and the संयुक्त राज्य ; Australia ; the United Kingdom, Ireland, दक्षिण Africa, Poland, Saudi अरब, the United Arab अमीरात, मोरक्को, Macao, बहरीन, क़तर, बांग्लादेश, Botswana, Ghana, कीनिया, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Mauritius, Singapore, Zimbabwe, Trinidad, Tobago ; New जीलैंड ; कुवैत और the European Union, respectively. )
अनेक systems also allow काल्स within a local area to be बना बगैर dialing the लोकल area कोड.
लिये उदाहरण, a phone number in उत्तर America will प्रारंभ with three संख्याएँ ( such as 661 ), which is the क्षेत्रफल code, followed by seven digits split into भाग of तीन and चार ( ऐसे as 550-1212 ), which is the local number.
कुछ areas now have अनिवार्य ten-digit dialing in place, भी for local calls.
सबसे telephone संजाल today ( exceptions being निजी intercom और सुरक्षित phone networks ) हैं interconnected in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय टेलीफोन network, where the format of telephone numbers is standardized by itu-t in the recommendation e.164.
इस specifies that the entire number चाहिए be 15 अंक or shorter, and begin साथ a country prefix.
For most countries, this is followed by an area कोड or नगर कोड and the subscriber number, जिससे might consist of the code for a particular telephone exchange.
ITU-T recommendation e.123 describes how to represent an international टेलीफोन number in writing or print, starting साथ a plus sign ( `` + '' ) और the country code.
जब calling an international क्रमांक from a fixed लकीर फोन, the + must be replaced साथ the international call उपसर्ग chosen by the country the कॉल is होने made from.
Some mobile phones allow the + to be डाला सीधे.
The format and आवंटन of local phone संख्याएँ are नियंत्रित by each स्वदेश 's respective government, either directly or by प्रायोजित organizations ( such as nanpa overseen by neustar inc. ).
पहले a टेलीफोन कॉल is connected, the टेलीफोन क्रमांक जरूर be dialed by the calling पार्टी or Caller.
the पुकारा party might have equipment that presents caller ID before the call is answered.
a संग्रहण एजेंसी is a कारोबार that pursues payments of debts owed by individuals or व्यवसायों.
Most collection agencies operate as एजेंटों of creditors and collect debts for a fee or percentage of the कुल राशि owed.
वहीँ are many types of संग्रहण agencies.
First-party agencies हैं oftentimes subsidiaries of the original कम्पनी the debt is owed to.
Third-party agencies हैं पृथक companies contracted by a company to collect debts on उनके behalf लिये a शुल्क.
Debt खरीदार purchase the कर्ज़ at a percentage of इसके value, then attempt to collect it.
Each देश रै इसके own rules and regulations regarding them.
कैनबिस पुष्प with दृश्य trichomes
Cannabis, also known as marijuana ( from the मैक्सिकन Spanish marihuana ), और by other names, is a तैयारी of the Cannabis plant intended for use as a psychoactive drug and as आयुर्विज्ञान.
Pharmacologically, the प्रिंसिपल psychoactive constituent of कैनबिस is tetrahydrocannabinol ( thc ) ; it is one of 483 known compounds in the plant, including at तनिक 84 other cannabinoids, ऐसे as cannabidiol ( CBD ), cannabinol ( CBN ), tetrahydrocannabivarin ( thcv ).
and cannabigerol ( CBG ).
इस is a list of अमरीकी football quarterbacks who have प्रारंभ लिये the Washington redskins, as well as इसके predecessors the बोस्टन Braves ( 1932 ) और Boston Redskins ( 1933 – 1936 ), in the National Football लीग ( NFL ).
The वॉशिंगटन redskins मताधिकार थी originally founded in Boston, Massachusetts as the Boston Braves, नामित after the लोकल बेसबॉल franchise.
the name was changed the following साल to the redskins.
In 1937, the franchise स्थानांतरित to वॉशिंगटन, d.c.
Of the 49 Redskins starting quarterbacks, two have been inducted into the प्रो Football Hall of कीर्ति : Sammy Baugh और सन्नी Jurgensen.
रॉबर्ट Griffin III 2012-present
Jason कैम्पबेल 2005-2009
Mark Burnell 2004-2007
Mark Rypien 1986-1993
जो Theismann 1974-1985
Sammy baugh 1937-1952
1st खास शक्तियां Operational Detachment-Delta ( 1st SFOD-D ), popularly known as डेल्टा Force, is one of the United States ' चार गुपचुप tier-one counter-terrorism and Special मिशन इकाई.
It was formerly सूचीबद्ध as the Combat अनुप्रयोग Group by the विभाग of रक्षा लकिन has since been officially re-designated the फौज Compartmented Elements ( ACE ).
While 1st SFOD-D is administratively समर्थित by usasoc, it जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the operational कंट्रोल of the संयुक्त Special परिचालन कमांड.
Delta Force और its Navy counterpart, the Naval Special warfare विकास समूह, हैं the United राज्य military 's primary counter-terrorism इकाई.
डेल्टा Force 's primary कार्य are counter-terrorism, सीधा कार्रवाई, and नेशनल हस्तक्षेप परिचालन, although it is an extremely बहुमुखी group capable of conducting many प्रकार of covert missions, including, लकिन not limited to, hostage rescues और raids.
the सेंट्रल Intelligence Agency 's highly गुपचुप खास Activities Division ( उदास ) and more specifically its elite Special परिचालन Group ( SOG ) often works साथ – and recruits – operators from डेल्टा Force.
Alpha क्षय is one example type of radioactive decay, in which an परमाणु केंद्रक emits an अल्फा particle, and thereby परिणत ( or 'क्षयs ' ) into an अणु साथ a mass number 4 less and atomic number 2 कम.
अनेक other types of decays हैं possible.
रेडियोसक्रिय decay, also known as nuclear क्षय or radioactivity, is the process by जिससे a nucleus of an अस्थिर अणु loses energy by emitting अणु of आयनकारी विकिरण.
a material that अनायास emits this दयालु of radiation — which includes the emission of ऊर्जावान alpha अणु, beta अणु, और गामा किरणें — is माना रेडियोसक्रिय.
वहीँ हैं many different प्रकार of रेडियोसक्रिय decay ( see table नीचे ).
a decay, or loss of energy, परिणाम when an अणु with एक प्रकार of केंद्रक, called the जनक radionuclide, transforms to an atom with a nucleus in a अलग state, or to a different केंद्रक containing different numbers of protons and neutrons.
either of ये products is named the बेटी nuclide.
in some decays the parent और daughter हैं different रासायनिक elements, and thus the decay प्रक्रम परिणाम in नाभिकीय transmutation ( creation of an atom of a नई तत्व ).
the पहला क्षय processes to be discovered यहूद alpha क्षय, बीटा decay, and gamma decay.
Alpha decay occurs जब the nucleus ejects an अल्फा कण ( helium केंद्रक ).
This is the most common process of emitting nucleons, but in rarer types of decays, nuclei can eject protons, or specific nuclei of other तत्व ( in the प्रक्रम पुकारा cluster क्षय ).
बीटा क्षय occurs when the nucleus emits an electron or positron और a प्रकार of neutrino, in a process that परिवर्तन a प्रोटॉन to a न्यूट्रॉन or the other way around.
The nucleus may capture an orbiting electron, converting a proton into a neutron ( electron capture ).
सब of these प्रक्रियाओं result in नाभिकीय transmutation.
By contrast, there exist रेडियोसक्रिय decay processes that do not result in transmutation.
The energy of an उत्साहित केंद्रक may be emitted as a gamma रे in gamma decay, or used to eject an orbital electron by interaction साथ the excited nucleus in a process called internal परिवर्तन.
radioisotopes occasionally emit neutrons, and इस परिणाम in a change in an element इससे one isotope to another.
One type of radioactive क्षय परिणाम in products जिससे are not पारिभाषित, but appear in a range of `` टुकड़े '' of the असली केंद्रक.
This decay is called spontaneous परिवर्द्धन.
This decay happens when a large अस्थिर nucleus अनायास splits into two ( और occasionally three ) smaller daughter nuclei, और usually emits गामा किरणें, neutrons, or other अणु as a consequence.
Radioactive decay is a stochastic ( i.e., random ) प्रक्रम at the स्तर of single atoms, in कि, according to quantum theory, it is impossible to predict when a particular atom होगा decay.
However, the chance that a दिए atom होगा decay is निरंतर over time.
For a large क्रमांक of atoms, the क्षय रेट for the collection is computable from the measured decay constants of the nuclides ( or equivalently इससे the half-lifes ).
वैक्सिंग is a रूप of semi-permanent hair removal जिससे removes the बाल from the रूट.
नई बाल will not grow back in the previously waxed area लिये two to eight सप्ताह, हालांकि कुछ लोगों will प्रारंभ to see regrowth in only a सप्ताह.
Almost कोई area of the body can be waxed, सहित eyebrows, फेस, बिकिनी area, legs, बाहें, back, abdomen और feet.
There are many प्रकार of waxing उपयुक्त लिये removing अनावश्यक hair.
Strip waxing is संपन्नता by spreading a मोम thinly over the skin.
A cloth or पेपर strip is then दबाया on the top और ripped बंद the direction of hair growth.
This removes the मोम along साथ the hair.
Strip wax can also be made at home using नीबू रस, water, sugar and मधु.
Hot वैक्सिंग utilizes hot मोम ( as opposed to स्ट्रिप मोम ).
in this मामला, the मोम is लागू somewhat thickly and साथ no cloth or paper strips.
The मोम then hardens जब it cools, thus allowing the easy हटाना by a therapist without the aid of cloths.
This वैक्सिंग विधि is very beneficial to लोगों who have sensitive स्किन.
वॉल painting ( 1st सदी AD ) from pompeii depicting a multigenerational भोज
प्राचीन Roman संस्कृति existed throughout the लगभग 1200-year history of the civilization of प्राचीन रोम.
The term refers to the culture of the Roman Republic, later the रोमन Empire, which, at इसके शिखर, covered an area from Lowland Scotland and मोरक्को to the euphrates.
Life in ancient Rome revolved around the city of Rome, its famed seven पहाड़ियाँ, और its स्मारकीय structures ऐसे as the Flavian Amphitheatre ( अभी called the कोलोसियम ), the Forum of Trajan, and the pantheon.
the city भी had several थिएटर, gymnasiums, and अनेक taverns, baths, and brothels.
throughout the territory under ancient Rome 's control, आवासीय architecture ranged from बहुत modest houses to देश विला, and in the पूंजी city of रोम, there were imperial निवास on the सुरुचिपूर्ण Palatine Hill, from which the शब्द राजमहल is derived.
the vast majority of the population lived in the नगर center, packed into insulae ( अपार्टमेंट blocks ).
the city of Rome थी the largest megalopolis of that समय, with a जनसांख्यिकी that may well have exceeded one million लोगों, with a high end estimate of 3.6 million and a कम end अनुमान of 450,000.
Historical estimates indicate that around 30 प्रतिशत of the जनसांख्यिकी under the city 's क्षेत्राधिकार lived in innumerable urban centers, साथ population of at least 10,000 and several सैन्य settlements, a बहुत ऊँची rate of urbanization by pre-industrial मानकों.
The most urbanized part of the Empire was इटली, which had an estimated rate of शहरी of 32 %, the same rate of शहरी of इंग्लैण्ड in 1800.
सबसे Roman towns and शहरों had a forum, temples and the same प्रकार of इमारतें, on a smaller स्केल, as मिला in Rome.
the large urban population जरूरी an अंतहीन supply of food which was a जटिल logistical कार्य, including acquiring, transporting, storing and distribution of food for Rome और अन्य शहरी centers.
इतालवी खेतो supplied vegetables and फल, but fish और मांस were luxuries.
Aqueducts यहूद built to bring जल to urban centers and wine and oil were आयातित from hispania, Gaul and अफ़्रीकी.
There was a very विशाल amount of commerce between the provinces of the रोमन Empire, चूंकि इसके transportation प्रौद्योगिकी थी बहुत efficient.
The average costs of transport and the technology यहूद comparable साथ 18th-century यूरोपीय.
the बाद नगर of रोम did नहीं भरण the space भीतर इसके ancient Aurelian दीवारें जबतक after 1870.
Eighty percent of the population under the jurisdiction of प्राचीन Rome जिया in the countryside in settlements साथ less than 10 thousand inhabitants.
Landlords generally resided in शहरों और their estates were left in the care of farm प्रबंधक.
the plight of rural slaves was generally worse than their counterparts working in urban aristocratic households.
to stimulate a higher labor productivity most landlords freed a large number of स्लेव and many received wages.
Some records indicate that `` as many as 42 लोगों lived in one small फार्म hut in Egypt, while six परिवारों owned a सिंगल olive tree. ''.
ऐसे a ग्रामीण पर्यावरण continued to induce migration of population to urban centers until the early 2nd century, when the urban population रोका growing और प्रारंभ to decline.
starting in the middle of the 2nd सदी BC, private Greek culture थी increasingly in ascendancy, in spite of tirades against the `` softening '' effects of hellenized संस्कृति इससे the रूढ़िवादी moralists.
by the time of augustus, cultured यूनानी household slaves सिखाया the Roman young ( sometimes even the girls ) ; शेफ़, decorators, secretaries, doctors, and hairdressers—all आए इससे the Greek East.
यूनानी sculptures सुशोभित Hellenistic landscape gardening on the palatine or in the विला, or were imitated in Roman sculpture yards by Greek slaves.
The रोमन भोजन preserved in the cookery books ascribed to apicius is essentially यूनानी.
Roman writers disdained लैटिन for a cultured Greek style.
Only in विधि and governance थी the तिरछा प्रकृति of रोम 's accretive culture supreme.
Against this human background, both the urban और rural सेटिंग, एक of history 's सबसे influential civilizations took shape, leaving behind a cultural legacy that survives in भाग today.
James जोसेफ `` डफी '' waldorf, jr. ( born August 20, 1962 ) is an American पेशेवर golfer.
कांच bottles ( लिये खीरा स्लाइस ) on शिपिंग pallets
a सोवियत मेयोनेज़ jar
a आधुनिक `` French kilner '' जार
Glass production involves two main विधि – the float glass process, which produces चादर glass, और glassblowing which produces बोतलों and अन्य containers.
a ऋतु is a subdivision of the साल, marked by changes in मौसम, पारिस्थितिकी, और hours of daylight.
Seasons result from the yearly revolution of the धरती around the Sun and the tilt of the धरती 's axis relative to the प्लेन of revolution.
In temperate and polar regions, the seasons हैं चिह्नित by changes in the intensity of धूप that पहुँच the Earth 's surface, variations of जिससे may कारण animals to go into शीतनिष्क्रियता or to migrate, and plants to be dormant.
दौरान may, जून and July, the northern hemisphere is exposed to more सीधा धूप because the hemisphere faces the sun.
the same is true of the southern गोलार्ध in November, December और January.
It is the झुकाव of the धरती that causes the सूर्य to be उच्चतर in the sky during the गर्मियाँ months जिससे increases the solar फ्लक्स.
however, due to मौसमी lag, जून, जुलाई और अगस्त are the hottest months in the उत्तरी hemisphere and December, January and February हैं the hottest महीने in the दक्षिणी hemisphere.
In temperate और subpolar regions, generally four calendar -आधारd seasons ( साथ उनके adjectives ) are पहचाना : spring ( vernal ), गर्मियाँ ( estival ), autumn ( autumnal ) and winter ( hibernal ).
However, ecologists mostly use a छह ऋतु model लिये temperate climate regions कि शामिल pre-spring ( prevernal ) and late summer ( serotinal ) as distinct seasons along साथ the traditional four.
Hot regions have two or three सीज़न ; the rainy ( or wet, or monsoon ) season और the शुष्क ऋतु, and in some tropical areas, a cool or mild ऋतु.
In some parts of the संसार, खास `` सीज़न '' are loosely defined आधारित on महत्वपूर्ण events such as a hurricane ऋतु, tornado season or a wildfire ऋतु.
The छह ecological seasons
The चार पंचांग seasons, depicted in an ancient Roman मोज़ेक from Tunisia
The बैटल of Fort Sumter ( April 12–14, 1861 ) was the बमबारी and surrender of Fort sumter, निकट Charleston, दक्षिण कैरोलिना, that प्रारंभ the American Civil War.
Following declarations of secession by सात Southern राज्य, South कैरोलिना मांगे that the U.S. Army लापरवाही its सुविधाएं in चार्ल्सटन हार्बर.
on दिसम्बर 26, 1860, u.S. प्रमुख रॉबर्ट Anderson surreptitiously स्थानांतरित his small command from the indefensible फोर्ट moultrie on सुलीवान 's Island to Fort Sumter, a substantial किला controlling the entrance of Charleston Harbor.
An attempt by u.S. अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन to reinforce and resupply Anderson, using the unarmed व्यापारी जलयान स्टार of the West, विफल जब it थी fired upon by shore बैटरी on जनवरी 9, 1861.
दक्षिण कैरोलिना अधिकारियों तब जब्त all Federal property in the चार्ल्सटन क्षेत्रफल, मगर for Fort Sumter.
During the early months of 1861, the situation around Fort sumter increasingly began to resemble a siege.
in कूच, ब्रिगेडियर. Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard, the first general अधिकारी of the newly formed confederate States of अमेरिका, was लगाई in कमांड of confederate forces in चार्ल्सटन.
beauregard energetically directed the strengthening of batteries around चार्ल्सटन harbor aimed at फोर्ट Sumter.
शर्तें in the फोर्ट grew dire as the Union soldiers rushed to complete the संस्थापना of additional guns.
एंडरसन थी short of men, food, and आपूर्तियाँ.
the resupply of Fort Sumter became the first crisis of the administration of President Abraham Lincoln.
he notified the Governor of दक्षिण Carolina, Francis W. Pickens, that he was sending supply जहाजों, which resulted in an ultimatum from the Confederate government : evacuate फोर्ट Sumter immediately.
Major Anderson refused to आत्मसमर्पण.
Beginning at 4:30 a.m. on April 12, the Confederates bombarded the fort from artillery बैटरी surrounding the हार्बर.
हालांकि the संघ garrison returned fire, they यहूद significantly outgunned and, after 34 घंटों, Major एंडरसन सहमत to evacuate.
There थी no loss of life on either side as a सीधा परिणाम of this engagement, हालांकि a gun explosion during the surrender ceremonies on April 14 caused two Union deaths.
following the battle, वहीँ was फैली support from both North और South लिये further सैन्य action.
Lincoln 's immediate call लिये 75,000 स्वयंसेवक to suppress the विद्रोह resulted in an additional four southern स्लेव states also declaring their secession and joining the confederacy.
the सिविल युद्ध था begun.
3g, short for तीसरा पीढी, is the तीसरा generation of मोबाईल telecommunications technology.
3g दूरसंचार networks support सेवाएं कि provide an information transfer रेट of at least 200 kbit/s.
However, अनेक सेवाएं advertised as 3G provide higher speed than the न्यूनतम technical requirements for a 3g service.
Recent 3G releases, often denoted 3.5G और 3.75g, भी provide मोबाईल broadband अभिगम of अनेक mbit/s to स्मार्टफ़ोन और मोबाईल modems in laptop computers.
3g finds application in बेतार voice telephony, मोबाईल Internet access, फिक्स्ड wireless Internet अभिगम, वीडियो calls और mobile TV.
`` Mazel Tov ! '' written on a वाइन glass tag
Traditionally, after the groom breaks the glass, the अतिथि चिल्लाओ `` Mazel tov ! ``.
A birthday केक, आइस्ड with the शब्द `` מזל טוב '' ( mazal tov ), as is प्रायः किया in Israel.
Here the phrase is written in यहूदी cursive.
`` Mazel tov '' or `` mazal tov '' ( Hebrew / यहूदी : `` מזל טוב '', Hebrew : `` mazal tov '' ; यहूदी : `` mazel tov '' ; lit.
`` शुभ luck '' ) is a phrase used to express बधाई for a प्रसन्न and significant अवसर or event.
Hepatitis c is an संक्रामक disease affecting primarily the liver, caused by the hepatitis C virus ( hcv ).
the संक्रमण is often asymptomatic, लकिन chronic infection can lead to scarring of the liver and ultimately to cirrhosis, which is generally apparent बाद अनेक years.
In कुछ cases, those with cirrhosis होगा go on to develop liver विफलता, liver कर्कट or life-threatening esophageal and gastric varices.
HCV is spread primarily by blood-to-blood सम्पर्क associated साथ intravenous drug use, poorly sterilized चिकित्सा उपकरण and transfusions.
An अनुमानित 130–200 million लोगों विश्वव्यापी are infected साथ.
The अस्तित्व of ( originally `` non- A non- b hepatitis '' ) was postulated in the 1970s and सिद्ध in 1989.
तभी infects humans and chimpanzees.
The virus persists in the liver in about 85 % of those संक्रमित.
इस persistent infection can be treated साथ medication : the standard चिकित्सा is a combination of peginterferon और ribavirin, साथ either boceprevir or telaprevir added in some मामले.
Overall, 50–80 % of people treated हैं cured.
those who develop cirrhosis or liver कर्कट may आवश्यकता a liver प्रत्यारोपण.
is the अग्रणी cause of liver transplantation, हालांकि the virus usually recurs after प्रत्यारोपण.
no टीका against is उपलब्धियाँ.
a flexible spending account ( FSA ), also known as a लचीली spending व्यवस्था, is एक of a क्रमांक of tax-advantaged वित्तीय खाते that can be set up through a cafeteria plan of an employer in the United States.
An FSA allows an employee to set aside a portion of earnings to pay लिये योग्य खर्च as स्थापित in the cafeteria plan, most commonly for medical expenses लकिन often for dependent care or अन्य खर्च.
धन deducted from an employee 's pay into an FSA is not subject to payroll taxes, resulting in substantial payroll tax बचत.
एक significant disadvantage to using an FSA is कि निधि not प्रयुक्त by the समाप्त of the plan year are lost to the employee, known as the `` use it or lose it '' rule.
The सबसे आम प्रकार of flexible spending खाता, the medical expense FSA ( also चिकित्सा FSA or health FSA ), is similar to a स्वास्थ्य बचत account ( hsa ) or a स्वास्थ्य reimbursement खाता ( HRA ).
However, जबकि HSAs and hras are almost exclusively प्रयुक्त as components of a consumer driven health परवाह plan, चिकित्सा fsas are commonly offered with more traditional स्वास्थ्य योजनाएँ as well.
in addition, funds in a health savings account हैं not lost जब the plan year is over, unlike निधि in an FSA.
Paper forms or an fsa debit card, भी ज्ञात as a flexcard, may be used to access the account funds.
Tennessee ( ) ( ) is a U.S. राज्य स्तिथ in the southeastern संयुक्त राज्य.
Tennessee is the 36th most extensive और the 17th most populous of the 50 संयुक्त States.
Tennessee is bordered by केंटकी and वर्जिनिया to the उत्तर, उत्तर Carolina to the ईस्ट, जॉर्जिया, Alabama, and मिसिसिपी to the दक्षिण, and अरकंसास and मिसौरी to the west.
The Appalachian kyu dominate the eastern भाग of the state, and the मिसिसिपी River forms the राज्य 's पश्चिमी border.
Tennessee 's पूंजी and second largest city is नैशविले, which रै a population of 609,644.
मेम्फिस is the state 's largest city, साथ a population of 652,050.
The state of Tennessee is rooted in the watauga Association, a 1772 frontier pact generally regarded as the पहला constitutional सरकारी west of the Appalachians.
What is now Tennessee थी initially भाग of North कैरोलिना, and later part of the दक्षिणपश्चिम territory.
टेनेसी was admitted to the Union as the 16th state on June 1, 1796.
Tennessee थी the पिछला राज्य to छोड़ the Union and join the Confederacy at the outbreak of the U.S. Civil युद्ध in 1861, और the पहला राज्य to be readmitted to the संघ at the समाप्त of the war.
Tennessee furnished more soldiers लिये the confederate Army than any other राज्य, and more soldiers for the संघ Army than any अन्य दक्षिणी state.
in the 20th सदी, टेनेसी transitioned इससे an कृषिक economy to a अधिक diversified economy, aided at times by federal entities such as the Tennessee घाटी Authority.
In the early 1940s, the city of ओक लकीरें was स्थापित to हाउस the Manhattan Project 's uranium enrichment facilities, helping to निर्माण the world 's पहला atomic बमबारी.
टेनेसी रै played a नाजुक role in the development of अनेक फ़ॉर्म of American लोकप्रिय music, including rock and फेंकें, blues, country, और rockabilly.
Beale गली in Memphis is considered by many to be the birthplace of the ब्लूज़, with musicians such as W.C. Handy performing in its क्लब as जल्दी as 1909.
Memphis थी also home to सूर्य रिकॉर्ड, where musicians such as एल्विस Presley, Isaac Hayes, Johnny नकदी, कार्ल perkins, जेरी Lee Lewis, रॉय Orbison, and चार्ली Rich began उनके रिकॉर्डिंग करियर, and where चट्टान and फेंकें took shape in the 1950s.
The 1927 विक्टर रिकॉर्डिंग सत्र in Bristol generally mark the शुरूआत of the country music genre and the वृद्धि of the ग्रैंड ओले opry in the 1930s helped मेक Nashville the center of the देश music recording उद्योग.
Three bricks and गारा museums recognize टेनेसी 's role in nurturing various फ़ॉर्म of popular म्यूज़िक : the मेम्फिस Rock n ' Soul Museum, the देश Music हॉल of Fame और Museum in नैशविले, और the International Rock-A-Billy Museum in Jackson.
In जोड, the Rockabilly हॉल of कीर्ति, an online site recognizing the development of rockabilly in which Tennessee played a निर्णायक भूमिका, is based in नैशविले.
टेनेसी 's major उद्योग शामिल कृषि, manufacturing, and tourism.
Poultry, soybeans, और cattle are the राज्य 's primary agricultural products, और प्रमुख manufacturing exports शामिल रसायन, परिवहन उपकरण, and विद्युत उपकरण.
The ग्रेट Smoky kyu नेशनल Park, the स्वदेश 's most visited national park, is headquartered in the eastern part of the state, and a section of the Appalachian Trail roughly फ़ॉलो the tennessee-north Carolina किनारा.
अन्य major पर्यटक आकर्षण include the टेनेसी Aquarium in चट्टानूगा, the sunsphere in knoxville, Dollywood in कबूतर Forge, the पार्थेनन, the Country म्यूज़िक Hall of Fame and Museum, and ryman Auditorium in Nashville, और एल्विस Presley 's Graceland residence and मकबरा in मेम्फिस.
One design variant of a मुर्गा रिंग.
A cock ring is a रिंग कि can be लगाई around a man 's penis, प्रायः at the आधार, primarily to slow the flow of blood इससे the वीर्यपात penile ऊतक, यूँ maintaining an स्तंभन लिये a much longer period of time.
मुर्गा rings can be worn around बस the शिश्न or both the शिश्न and scrotum, or just the scrotum अलोन, though this is usually पुकारा a testicle कफ.
Rings can be बना of a किस्में of अलग materials, most commonly चमड़े, rubber, or silicone, though नायलॉन and मेटल हैं भी used either as the main component or part of the closure.
The पद cock ring is sometimes used as a पर्याय for a Prince अल्बर्ट piercing, a piercing of the penis that is usually, though not always, a metal रिंग.
जब used in cases of erectile dysfunction वे are known by विभिन्न names such as `` erection रिंग '' और `` टेंशन ring ''.
the headquarters of Major लीग बेसबॉल at 245 Park एवेन्यू, Midtown मैनहटन, New यॉर्क नगर, यूएसए.
Major लीग बेसबॉल ( एमएलबी ) is a पेशेवर baseball league, consisting of teams that खेल in the National League and the American लीग.
Dating to 1876 और 1901 respectively, the दो leagues merged in 2000 into a single organization led by the Commissioner of Baseball, after 100 years as पृथक legal entities.
MLB constitutes एक of the प्रमुख पेशेवर sports लीग of the United States and कनाडा.
it is composed of 30 teams — 29 in the United States और एक in कनाडा.
Teams in MLB खेल 162 games each season over six महीने ( April through September ).
Five टीमों in each लीग advance to a four-round postseason टूर्नामेंट that culminates in the World श्रेणी, a best-of-seven-games championship series between the दो लीग champions which dates to 1903.
the संगठन oversees अनेक minor-league baseball leagues which operate about 240 teams संबद्ध with the major-league clubs.
With the International Baseball Federation, the league also manages the international World Baseball क्लासिक टूर्नामेंट.
एमएलबी has the उच्चतम ऋतु attendance of any sports league in the संसार with nearly 75 million spectators in 2012.
Delaware ( ) is a u.S. state स्तिथ on the अटलांटिक coast in the mid-atlantic region of the United राज्य.
it is bordered to the south and west by मेरीलैंड, to the northeast by नई Jersey, and to the north by पेन्सिलवेनिया.
the state takes इसके नाम इससे थामस West, 3rd सामन्त De La Warr, an अंग्रेज़ी nobleman और वर्जिनिया 's पहला colonial राज्यपाल, after whom कया is now पुकारा Cape Henlopen was originally named.
डेलावेयर is स्तिथ in the northeastern portion of the Delmarva प्रायद्वीप and is the दूसरी smallest, the छठे तनिक populous, but the sixth most densely populated of the पचास United States.
Delaware is divided into three counties.
From north to south, these three काउंटी हैं नई Castle, Kent, and Sussex.
While the दक्षिणी दो counties have historically महरूम predominantly agricultural, नई किला County has been more industrialized.
पहले its तटरेखा was explored by Europeans in the 16th सदी, Delaware थी inhabited by अनेक groups of देशी अमेरिकी, सहित the Lenape in the north और nanticoke in the south.
It was initially colonized by डच traders at zwaanendael, स्तिथ near the present कस्बा of Lewes, in 1631.
डेलावेयर was one of the 13 colonies participating in the American Revolution और on December 7, 1787, became the पहला राज्य to ratify the संविधान of the संयुक्त States, thereby बनने ज्ञात as the पहला राज्य.
Energy Transformation in उर्जा Systems Language
Energy transformation or उर्जा conversion is the प्रक्रम of changing one form of उर्जा to another.
in physics, the पद energy describes the capacity to उपज certain changes within a system, without regard to limitations in transformation imposed by एन्ट्रॉपी.
Changes in कुल उर्जा of systems can तभी be संपन्नता by adding or subtracting energy इससे them, as energy is a quantity which is conserved, according to the first law of thermodynamics.
according to special relativity, changes in the उर्जा of systems will भी coincide साथ changes in the प्रणाली 's द्रव्यमान, और the total amount of mass of a system is a measure of इसके energy.
Energy in a प्रणाली may be transformed so कि it resides in a different राज्य, or a different type of energy.
उर्जा in अनेक states may be प्रयुक्त to do many varieties of शारीरिक कार्य.
उर्जा may be used in natural प्रक्रियाओं or machines, or else to provide some सेवा to society ( such as ऊष्मा, लाइट, or motion ).
For example, an internal combustion engine converts the potential रासायनिक उर्जा in gasoline and ऑक्सीजन into heat, which is then transformed into the propulsive energy ( kinetic उर्जा that moves a गाडी ).
A सौर cell converts solar विकिरण into विद्युत energy that can then be used to लाइट a बल्ब or power a कंप्यूटर.
The generic नाम लिये a यंत्र जिससे converts energy इससे one रूप to another, is a transducer.
In general, सबसे types of energy, सहेजें लिये थर्मल उर्जा, may be परिवर्तित efficiently to कोई other दयालु of energy.
sometimes इस occurs with an efficiency of essentially 100 %, ऐसे as जब potential energy is परिवर्तित to गतिज energy as an object falls in vacuum, or जब it orbits nearer or farther from another ऑब्जेक्ट, in स्पेस.
परिवर्तन of अन्य types of energies to heat may भी occurs साथ nearly perfect दक्षता ( many types of friction do इस ).
अपवाद लिये perfect conversion efficiency ( भी for isolated systems ) occur when energy रै already been partly distributed among अनेक उपलब्धियाँ quantum states for a collection of अणु, जिससे are freely allowed to explore कोई राज्य of momentum and position ( phase space ).
In such circumstances, a measure called Entropy, or evening-out of energy वितरण in ऐसे राज्य, dictates कि future states of the system जरूर be of at least बराबर evenness in energy वितरण.
( There is no रास्ता, taking the universe as a पूरे, to collect energy into fewer राज्य, एकबार it has spread to उन्हें ).
a consequence of this requirement is that वहीँ हैं limitations to the दक्षता with which thermal energy can be परिवर्तित to अन्य kinds of उर्जा, चूंकि थर्मल energy in संतुलन at a दिए तापमान already represents the maximal evening-out of उर्जा between all possible states.
ऐसे energy is sometimes considered `` degraded उर्जा, '' because it is नहीं entirely usable.
the second law of ऊष्मागतिकी is a रास्ता of stating कि, for this reason, थर्मल energy in a system may be परिवर्तित to other kinds of energy साथ efficiencies approaching 100 %, तभी if the एन्ट्रॉपी ( even-ness or disorder ) of the universe is increased by other अर्थात्, to compensate for the घटी in एन्ट्रॉपी संबद्ध with the disappearance of the thermal energy and इसके entropy सामग्री.
वरना, तभी a भाग of thermal energy may be converted to other kinds of energy ( और यूँ, useful कार्य ), चूंकि the remainder of the ऊष्मा must be सुरक्षित to be transferred to a thermal टंकी at a निम्नतर temperature, in ऐसे a way that the increase in एन्ट्रॉपी लिये इस process more than compensates लिये the entropy decrease associated साथ परिवर्तन of the rest of the ऊष्मा into अन्य प्रकार of energy.
the National हॉकी League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit association '' जिससे operates a प्रमुख professional ice hockey league of 30 franchised member क्लब, of which seven are currently located in कनाडा and 23 in the संयुक्त राज्य.
headquartered in New York City, the NHL is widely considered to be the premier professional बर्फ हॉकी league in the world, and one of the major professional sports leagues in the संयुक्त States and Canada.
The Stanley Cup, the oldest पेशेवर खेल ट्रॉफी in North America, is awarded annually to the league playoff champion at the end of each ऋतु.
The league was organized on नवम्बर 26, 1917, in मॉन्ट्रियल, Quebec, कनाडा, बाद the बर्खास्तगी of operations of its predecessor organization, the नेशनल Hockey Association ( NHA ), जिससे था महरूम founded in 1909.
it प्रारंभ with four teams and, through a series of expansions, contractions, and relocations, the league is now composed of 30 active franchises.
The nation to which the name of the league originally referred was Canada, हालांकि the लीग रै अभी महरूम binational चूंकि 1924 when it expanded into the United States.
After a labour dispute that led to the cancellation of the entire 2004–05 season, the league resumed खेल under a new सामूहिक bargaining agreement कि included a salary cap.
In 2009, the एनएचएल enjoyed record highs in terms of sponsorships, attendance, और television audiences.
The NHL draws many highly skilled खिलाड़ी इससे सब over the world and फिलहाल रै players इससे about 20 different देशों.
हालांकि Canadians have historically constituted the majority of the players in the NHL, over the पास्ट four plus decades the percentages of US और यूरोपीय players have increased both because of the एनएचएल 's continued विस्तार from six to thirty क्लब since 1967, और the increased उपलब्धता of highly skilled European players.
This is the पूरा list of the ratified and unratified amendments to the United States संविधान which प्राप्त the approval of the संयुक्त States कॉंग्रेस.
twenty-seven amendments have been ratified चूंकि the असली signing of the Constitution, the पहला टेन of which are ज्ञात collectively as the Bill of Rights.
The procedure लिये amending the United States संविधान is governed by Article v of the असली टेक्स्ट.
वहीँ have महरूम many other प्रस्ताव for amendments to the United States संविधान introduced in Congress, but not सुपुर्द to the states.
पहले an amendment can take प्रभाव, it must be proposed to the states by a two-thirds vote of both घरों of Congress or by a सम्मेलन ( ज्ञात as an आलेख v सम्मेलन ) called by two-thirds of the states, और ratified by three-fourths of the राज्य or by three-fourths of प्रथाओं thereof, the method of ratification होने संकल्पित by कॉंग्रेस at the time of proposal.
to तिथि, no convention for proposing amendments has been पुकारा by the राज्य, और only once—in 1933 for the अनुसमर्थन of the twenty-first amendment —has the सम्मेलन method of अनुसमर्थन been employed.
fmr LLC ( Fidelity प्रबन्धन and Research ) or Fidelity Investments is an American बहुराष्ट्रीय financial सेवाएं corporation.
It is one of the largest परस्पर निधि and वित्तीय services groups in the संसार.
It was founded in 1946 and serves उत्तर अमरीकी investors.
वफ़ादारी Ventures is its venture पूंजी arm.
वफ़ादारी International Limited ( फील ), थी an international संबद्ध संस्थापित in 1969, serving सबसे countries in the rest of the world.
In सितंबर 2011, फील was rebranded as 'Fidelity विश्वव्यापी Investment '.
Fidelity Investments manages a विशाल family of mutual funds, provides निधि distribution और investment advice सेवाएं, as well as providing छूट brokerage services, रिटायरमेंट सेवाएं, wealth management, securities निष्पादन और clearance, life बीमे और a क्रमांक of अन्य सेवाएं.
June 2006 was the sixth माह of that साल.
it began on a Thursday and ended बाद 30 days on a शुक्रवार the following events भी occurred दौरान the मोंटh:
समाजशास्त्र is the scientific study of इंसान society and इसके origins, development, organizations, and संस्थानों.
It is a social विज्ञान which uses various methods of अनुभवजन्य investigation और critical analysis to develop a देह of knowledge about human सोशल activity, structures, और कृत्यों.
A goal for many sociologists is to conduct शोध जिससे may be applied सीधे to social policy and welfare, while अन्य focus primarily on refining the theoretical understanding of social processes.
Subject matter ranges from the सूक्ष्म level of व्यक्तिगत एजेंसी और बातचीत to the macro स्तर of systems और the social ढांचा.
the परंपरागत focuses of समाजशास्त्र include सोशल stratification, social class, संस्कृति, race और नस्ल, gender और कामुकता, social गतिशीलता, धर्म, secularization, law, and deviance.
As सब spheres of इंसान activity हैं affected by the interplay between social ढांचा और व्यक्तिगत एजेंसी, sociology has धीरे विस्तारित इसके focus to further विषय, ऐसे as health, चिकित्सा, military और penal institutions, the Internet, environmental sociology, political अर्थव्यवस्था और the role of social कार्यकलाप in the विकास of scientific knowledge.
The range of social वैज्ञानिक methods has also expanded.
सोशल researchers draw upon a किस्में of qualitative and quantitative techniques.
the भाषाई and सांस्कृतिक turns of the mid-twentieth सदी led to increasingly interpretative, hermeneutic, और philosophic approaches to the analysis of समाज.
Conversely, recent decades have seen the वृद्धि of new analytically, mathematically and computationally rigorous तकनीकों, such as agent-based modelling and सोशल network विश्लेषण.
समाजशास्त्र चाहिए not be confused with various general सोशल studies पाठ्यक्रम which bear छोटी संबंध to sociological सिद्धान्त or सोशल विज्ञान शोध methodology.
Thunder is the sound caused by lightning.
depending on the प्रकृति of the lightning and distance of the listener, थंडर can दायरा इससे a शार्प, loud crack to a long, low rumble ( brontide ).
The sudden increase in pressure और temperature इससे बिजली produces रैपिड विस्तार of the एयर surrounding and भीतर a bolt of lightning.
In फेरे, this विस्तार of एयर creates a sonic शॉक wave, समान to a सोनिक बूम, जिससे produces the ध्वनि of thunder, प्रायः referred to as a clap, क्रैक, or peal of thunder.
the अलहदा of the बिजली can be calculated by the listener based on the time अंतराल इससे when the lightning is देखी to when the sound is heard.
पालमा (,, ), in पूरा पालमा de Mallorca, is the major city and port on the island of Majorca ( Mallorca ) and capital city of the autonomous जातियाँ of the Balearic Islands in Spain.
The names Ciutat de Mallorca ( City of majorca ) and Ciutat ( City ) were प्रयुक्त before the War of the Spanish Succession और are still प्रयुक्त by लोगों in Majorca.
However, the आधिकारिक name was Mallorca, the वही as the द्वीप.
It is situated on the south coast of the island on the खाड़ी of Palma.
as of the 2009 जनसांख्यिकी, the जनसांख्यिकी of the city of Palma proper थी 401,270, और the जनसांख्यिकी of the entire urban area was 517,285, रैंकिंग as the twelfth largest urban area of Spain.
Almost हाफ of the कुल population of Majorca live in Palma.
the cabrera Archipelago, हालांकि widely separated इससे पालमा proper, is administratively considered part of the नगरपालिका.
Its विमानक्षेत्र, बेटे Sant Joan, serves over 22 लाख passengers each year.
The Marivent Palace थी offered by the नगर to the तब प्रिंस Juan कार्लोस i of स्पेन.
The royals have since spent their गर्मियाँ holidays in पालमा.
Luthor redirects here.
लिये other उपयोग, देखिए Luther ( disambiguation ).
सिकंदर जोसेफ `` Lex '' Luthor is a fictional character, a supervillain appearing in comic books published by DC कॉमिक्स.
Luthor is the archenemy of सुपरमैन, और as a high-status supervillain, has also come into विरोध with बैटमैन and other superheroes in the DC Universe.
निर्मित by Jerry siegel और Joe Shuster, the character पहला appeared in Action Comics # 23 ( अप्रैल 1940 ).
luthor is described as `` a power-mad, दुष्ट वैज्ञानिक '' of ऊँची intelligence and incredible technological prowess.
luthor 's goals typically center on हत्या Superman, the foremost obstacle to achieving the villain 's megalomaniacal goals.
Despite periodically wearing a संचालित बहि, Luthor has traditionally lacked superpowers or a dual पहचान.
The अक्षर was originally चित्रित as a mad वैज्ञानिक जो, in the vein of pulp novels, wreaks havoc on the world with his अत्याधुनिक weaponry.
In his earliest appearances, Luthor is दिखाया with a पूरा head of रेड बाल.
Despite इस, the अक्षर later became hairless as the result of an artist 's mistake.
A 1960 स्टोरी by Jerry Siegel expanded upon Luthor 's उत्पत्ति and motivations, revealing him to be a बाल्यकाल friend of Superman 's who खोया his बाल जब a fire destroyed his laboratory ; Luthor vowed revenge.
following the 1985 सीमित series Crisis on Infinite earths, the अक्षर was re-imagined as a machiavellian industrialist और white-collar criminal, even briefly serving as अध्यक्ष of the United States.
In हाल years, विभिन्न लेखक have revived luthor 's mad scientist persona from the 1940s.
The character was ranked as the 8th महानतम Villain by Wizard on its 100 महानतम Villains of All Time list.
IGN 's list of the शीर्ष 100 Comic किताब खलनायक of सब समय ranked luthor as # 4.
luthor is भी वर्णित as a `` megavillain '' by कॉमिक book आलोचक Peter Sanderson, एक of a few genre-crossing villains whose adventures take place `` in a world in which the ordinary कानून of nature are slightly suspended '' ; characters such as प्राध्यापक Moriarty, Count ड्रैकुला, hannibal Lecter, डॉक्टर Doom, and Darth Vader, also fit इस description.
मार्टिन लूथर King, Jr. Day is a संयुक्त States federal holiday marking the birthday of रेव. Dr. मार्टिन लूथर King, Jr.
It is observed on the third सोमवार of January प्रत्येक साल, which is around the समय of King 's birthday, January 15.
The फ्लोटिंग अवकाश is समान to छुट्टियाँ नियत under the Uniform सोमवार अवकाश अधिनियम, though the अधिनियम predated the establishment of Martin Luther किंग, Jr. दिन by 15 सालो.
किंग was the मुख्य spokesman for nonviolent activism in the सिविल अधिकारों movement, which successfully protested जातिगत पक्षपात in federal and state विधि.
the campaign लिये a संघीय अवकाश in King 's honor began जल्द after उसके assassination in 1968.
Ronald Reagan signed the holiday into विधि in 1983, and it was पहला observed on जनवरी 20, 1986.
At पहला, कुछ राज्य resisted observing the अवकाश as such, giving it alternative names or combining it with other holidays.
It थी officially observed in all 50 राज्य लिये the पहला समय in 2000.
the camera phone समाधान allows instant sharing of तस्वीरें.
as it 's automatic और instant, the उपयोक्ता does नहीं have to use a केबल or removable मीडिया to connect to a personal computer.
A कैमरा phone is a मोबाईल फोन which is able to कैप्चर स्टिल photographs ( और प्रायः वीडियो ).
चूंकि early in the 21st century the majority of मोबाईल phones in उपयोग हैं कैमरा phones.
Most camera फोन हैं simpler than separate digital cameras.
Their usual fixed फ़ोकस lenses और smaller सेंसर limit their प्रदर्शन in poor lighting.
lacking a physical shutter, most have a long शटर lag.
Flash, जहाँ present, is usually weak.
Optical zoom और tripod screws are विरल.
Some also कमी a USB कनेक्शन, removable memory card, or other way of transferring their pictures more quickly than by the फोन 's inherent communication विशेषता.
Some of the more महंगी camera phones have only a few of ये technical disadvantages, which apply most acutely in कम लाइट शर्तें and in any case have not inhibited their फैली use.
Most model lines improve in ये regards प्रत्येक year or two.
कुछ, ऐसे as the Droid Incredible only have a menu choice to start an application कार्यक्रम to activate the camera.
अन्य, ऐसे as the ब्लैकबेरी Storm 2, Droid x, Motorola V980 और Nokia 5800 also have a separate camera बटन for quickness और convenience.
खिड़कियाँ फोन can be विन्यस्त to operate as a camera even if the phone is asleep.
Some camera phones हैं designed to resemble separate low-end डिजिटल कॉम्पैक्ट cameras in appearance and to कुछ extent in features और picture quality, और are branded as दोनो mobile phones and कैमरे, including certain सोनी phones.
the प्रिंसिपल advantages of कैमरा फोन हैं लागत और compactness ; indeed for a user who carries a मोबाईल phone anyway, the additional size and लागत हैं negligible.
Smartphones that are कैमरा फोन may चलाएं mobile applications to add capabilities ऐसे as geotagging और चित्र stitching.
a few ऊँची end फोन can use their touch screen to direct उनके कैमरा to फ़ोकस on a particular object in the field of view, giving even an अनुभवहीन user a degree of focus control exceeded only by seasoned photographers using manual focus.
`` whatever happened to the man of कल ? '' is a 1986 comic book स्टोरी featuring the DC Comics character of सुपरमैन.
Written by Alan Moore with help from long-time, और जल्द to be retiring, Superman एडिटर, Julius Schwartz, the स्टोरी थी प्रकाशित in two भाग, beginning in सुपरमैन # 423 and ending in Action कॉमिक्स # 583, दोनो published in सितंबर 1986.
The story थी drawn by long-time artist Curt swan, in his फाइनल major योगदान to the Superman titles, और was inked by George pérez in the issue of Superman and कर्ट Schaffenberger in the समस्या of कार्रवाई कॉमिक्स.
the story थी an imaginary tale which told the final story of the Silver Age Superman and उसके long history, which थी being rebooted following the events of Crisis on Infinite Earths, before उसके आधुनिक introduction in the जॉन Byrne series, the Man of स्टील.
मूर wanted his plot to honor the long history of the character and to serve as a complete conclusion to his mythology.
The story is a frame स्टोरी set टेन years after Superman थी पिछला देखी, where Lois Lane recounts the टेल of the end of Superman 's career to a reporter इससे the Daily Planet.
Her story includes numerous violent attacks against सुपरमैन by his enemies, the public revelation of उसके secret identity of Clark केंट and a क्रमांक of deaths of those closest to उसे.
the स्टोरी रै been cited as एक of the best stories of the character of Superman, and आलोचकों और audiences अक्सर choose it as एक of the most यादगार कॉमिक्स ever published.
it is used as an उदाहरण of कैसा to बंद the long-time continuity of a comic किताब अक्षर.
the story 's विरासत रै endured with समान कहानियां लिखा as श्रद्धांजलि to it.
The शीर्षक is a reference to एक of the nicknames of Superman as the man of कल, and थी used in the शीर्षक of another Superman.
The bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car, designed और developed by the volkswagen Group and manufactured in molsheim, France by Bugatti Automobiles s.a.s.
The Super खेल version of the veyron is the fastest street-legal उत्पादन car in the संसार, साथ a top speed of.
the असली version रै a शीर्ष गति of.
it was नामित Car of the Decade ( 2000–2009 ) by the BBC television कार्यक्रम Top Gear.
The standard Veyron won शीर्ष Gears Best car Driven All Year पुरस्कार in 2005.
On 6 अप्रैल 2013, bugatti set the रिकार्ड लिये the तीव्रतम roadster in the world साथ the Veyron Grand Sport Vitesse, reaching on average a शीर्ष speed of.
the veyron 's मुख्य पंक्तियां थी hartmut Warkuss, and the exterior was designed by jozef Kabaň of Volkswagen, with much of the engineering work being conducted अंतर्गत the मार्गदर्शन of अभियान्त्रिकी मुख्य वुल्फगांग Schreiber.
A क्रमांक of special variants have महरूम produced.
in December 2010, Bugatti began offering prospective buyers the क्षमता to मनपसंद exterior और इंटीरियर्स colours by using the veyron 16.4 configurator application on the marque 's official जालस्थल.
The institution of the eucharist has महरूम a कुंजी थीम in the depictions of the Last Supper in Christian art, as in this 16th-century जुआन de Juanes painting.
`` at the पिछला Supper, on the night he was गद्दारी, our रक्षक instituted the Eucharistic sacrifice of उसके देह and रक्त. ''
( Catechism of the Catholic गिरिजाघर 1323 )
Eucharist in the कैथोलिक Church refers to both the celebration of the Mass, that is, the Eucharist liturgy, और the ब्रैड और वाइन which after the consecration are transubstantiated ( changed in substance ) into the body and blood of यीशु Christ, Lord and परमेश्वर, a घोषणा formulated by the परिषद of Trent with an anathema against anyone who अस्वीकृत this.
Blessed Sacrament is a devotional term used in the Roman Catholic गिरिजाघर to refer to the Eucharistic species ( the देह और Blood of Christ ).
The following is a list of colleges and universities in the U.S. state of Louisiana.
A short story is a brief कार्य of साहित्य, usually written in narrative prose.
उभरते from पहले oral storytelling परंपराओं in the 17th सदी, the short story रै grown to encompass a देह of work so diverse as to defy easy characterization.
at its सबसे prototypical the short स्टोरी सुविधाएँ a small cast of नामित characters, और focuses on a self-contained incident साथ the intent of evoking a `` सिंगल प्रभाव '' or मनोदशा.
in so doing, short stories make उपयोग of plot, अनुनाद, और other dynamic components to a दूर greater उपाधि than is typical of an anecdote, yet to a far lesser degree than a novel.
जबकि the short स्टोरी is largely distinct from the novel, authors of दोनो generally चित्रण इससे a आम pool of literary techniques.
Short stories have no set लंबाई.
In terms of शब्द count वहीँ is no official demarcation between an anecdote, a short स्टोरी, और a novel.
बल्कि, the रूप 's पैरामीटर्स are दिए by the rhetorical और व्यावहारिक कॉन्टेक्स्ट in which a दिए story is produced and considered, so कि what constitutes a छोटी story may differ between genres, देशों, eras, और commentators.
जैसे the novel, the छोटी story 's predominant आकार reflects the demands of the available markets लिये publication, and the एवोल्यूशन of the form seems closely tied to the evolution of the publishing industry और the submission दिशानिर्देश of its constituent houses.
the short story has been माना both an apprenticeship form preceding अधिक lengthy works, and a crafted form in its अपना right, collected together in किताबे of समान लंबाई, price, और वितरण as novels.
छोटी story writers may define their works as भाग of the कलाकारी और personal अभिव्यक्ति of the form.
वे may also attempt to resist categorization by genre and fixed form.
Area कोड in Michigan
Area code 810 is the टेलीफोन क्षेत्रफल code सेवारत eastern मिशिगन.
the raccoon (, Procyon lotor ), sometimes spelled racoon, भी known as the आम raccoon, North American raccoon, northern raccoon and colloquially as कून, is a medium-sized mammal देशी to North America.
The raccoon is the largest of the procyonid family, having a देह length of and a देह weight of.
इसके grayish कोट ज़्यादातर consists of घना underfur जिससे insulates विरूद्ध cold weather.
दो of the raccoon 's सबसे distinctive features are इसके extremely dexterous front paws और इसके facial mask, which हैं themes in the mythology of several देशी American tribes.
Raccoons हैं noted लिये their intelligence, साथ अध्ययन showing that they are able to remember the solution to tasks लिये up to three years.
the diet of the omnivorous raccoon, जिससे is usually nocturnal, consists of about 40 % invertebrates, 33 % संयंत्र foods, and 27 % vertebrates.
The original habitats of the raccoon are deciduous और मिश्रित forests, but due to उनके adaptability वे have extended their range to mountainous areas, coastal marshes, और urban areas, जहाँ कुछ homeowners consider them to be पीड़कों.
As a result of escapes and deliberate introductions in the mid-20th century, raccoons are अभी also distributed across the European mainland, the काकेशस region और Japan.
हालांकि previously विचार to be solitary, वहीँ is now evidence कि raccoons engage in gender-specific सोशल behavior.
Related महिलाओं often share a आम area, while unrelated males सजीव together in groups of up to four animals to maintain their positions विरूद्ध foreign males दौरान the mating season, and other potential आक्रमणकारियों.
Home दायरा आकार vary anywhere इससे 3 हेक्टेयर ( 7 acres ) for महिलाओं in cities to 50 km2 ( 20 sq mi ) for males in prairies.
बाद a gestation काल of परिचय 65 days, two to five यंग, known as `` kits '', are born in spring.
the kits हैं subsequently उठाया by their mother until dispersion in late fall.
Although खिलाते raccoons have been known to सजीव over 20 years, their average जीवन expectancy in the wild is तभी 1.8 to 3.1 years.
In many areas, hunting and vehicular injury हैं the two most आम causes of मौत.
the 2010 Haiti earthquake was a catastrophic magnitude 7.0 Mw earthquake, with an epicenter near the कस्बा of Léogâne ( ouest Department ), लगभग वेस्ट of Port-au-Prince, हैती 's capital.
The भूकंप occurred at 16:53 लोकल time ( 21:53 UTC ) on मंगलवार, 12 जनवरी 2010.
By 24 January, at तनिक 52 aftershocks measuring 4.5 or greater था महरूम recorded.
An अनुमानित three million लोगों यहूद affected by the भूकंप.
the उच्चतम विश्वसनीय death गिनती was अनुमानित at 220,000.
Haitian सरकारी estimates were higher.
the government of हैती estimated that 250,000 residences और 30,000 commercial इमारतें had collapsed or were severely damaged.
The earthquake caused major क्षति in Port-au-Prince, Jacmel और अन्य settlements in the प्रदेश.
अनेक notable landmark buildings were significantly damaged or नष्ट, including the अध्यक्षीय Palace, the नेशनल Assembly building, the Port-au-Prince Cathedral, और the main jail.
among those मारे were Archbishop of Port-au-Prince जोसेफ सर्ज Miot, and opposition नेता Micha Gaillard.
The मुख्यालय of the United Nations स्थिरीकरण Mission in Haiti ( MINUSTAH ), located in the पूंजी, collapsed, killing अनेक, including the मिशन 's मुख्य, hédi annabi.
Many countries responded to appeals लिये humanitarian aid, pledging निधि and dispatching rescue and medical teams, engineers और support personnel.
Communication प्रणालियों, air, जमीन, and sea transport सुविधाएं, hospitals, और electrical networks had been damaged by the भूकंप, जिससे hampered बचाव और सहायता प्रयत्न ; confusion over who was in charge, एयर ट्रैफ़िक जमघट, and problems with prioritisation of flights further जटिल early relief कार्य.
port-au-prince 's morgues were overwhelmed साथ tens of हज़ारों of bodies.
ये था to be दफ्न in द्रव्यमान graves.
as rescues tailed off, supplies, medical परवाह और sanitation became priorities.
Delays in aid distribution led to angry appeals from aid workers and survivors, और looting और विरल violence were observed.
On 22 January the संयुक्त Nations noted कि the emergency phase of the relief operation थी drawing to a बंद, और on the following दिन the Haitian सरकारी officially called off the ढूंढें for survivors.
Mister Ed is a fictional talking horse, originally appearing in short कहानियां by वाल्टर R. Brooks, and later in an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न हालात comedy produced by filmways कि first aired in अनुप्रयोग इससे January 5 to July 2, 1961, और तब on CBS इससे October 1, 1961 to February 6, 1966.
the सितारों of the दिखाएँ were Mister Ed, a palomino घोड़ा जो could `` बात '', played by gelding Bamboo Harvester and voiced by former Western star Allan Lane ( who went uncredited for the entire length of the series ), और his owner, an eccentric और enormously klutzy, yet friendly, architect named Wilbur Post ( Alan यंग ).
Much of the program 's ह्यूमर stemmed इससे the फैक्ट मिस्टर Ed would बोलो only to Wilbur, as well as ed 's सुर्खी as a troublemaker.
अन्य running jokes centered on Wilbur 's character होने a विशाल klutz and inadvertently causing नुक़सान to खुद or अन्य.
according to the दिखाएँ 's निर्माता, आर्थर Lubin, Young was chosen as the सीसे character क्युकी he `` बस seemed जैसे the sort of guy a horse होता बात to ''.
lubin, a dost of Mae वेस्ट, scored a coup by persuading the screen icon to अतिथि star in एक एपीसोड.
In the United States, reruns aired on Nick at Nite from कूच 3, 1986, to February 1, 1993.
Sister स्टेशन TV Land भी reran the show from 1996–98 और again इससे 2003-06.
the series is currently ब्रॉडकास्ट every morning on This TV, साथ with Highway Patrol, और The Patty Duke दिखाएँ.
It is भी फिलहाल ब्रॉडकास्ट on Hallmark Movie Channel.
as of January 1, 2011, the first दो seasons of the दिखाएँ are available on Hulu.
the Rapture is a term in ईसाई eschatology which refers to the `` being caught up '' discussed in 1 thessalonians 4:17, जब the `` मुर्दे in Christ '' and `` we जो are alive and remain '' will be `` caught up in the बादल '' to मिलें `` the Lord in the air ''.
The पद `` rapture '' is used in at तनिक दो senses.
in the pre-tribulation view, a समूह of people will be left behind on earth after another group literally leaves `` to meet the Lord in the air. ''
This is now the सबसे आम उपयोग of the term, especially among fundamentalist ईसाइयों and in the United States.
The other, older use of the term `` Rapture '' is बस as a पर्याय for the final resurrection generally, without a विश्वास that a group of people is left behind on earth for an extended tribulation काल बाद the events of 1 Thessalonians 4:17.
इस distinction is महत्वपूर्ण as कुछ प्रकार of Christianity never refer to `` the Rapture '' in धार्मिक शिक्षा, but might उपयोग the older और more general sense of the word `` rapture '' in referring to कया happens दौरान the final क़यामत.
There are अनेक views among Christians regarding the timing of Christ 's return ( including whether it will occur in one इवेंट or दो ), and various views regarding the गंतव्य of the aerial gathering described in 1 Thessalonians 4.
Denominations ऐसे as रोमन catholics, Orthodox ईसाइयों, लूथरन Christians, and Reformed Christians believe in a rapture only in the भाव of a general final क़यामत, जब मसीह रिटर्न a सिंगल समय.
वे do not मानना कि a group of people is left behind on earth लिये an extended tribulation काल after the events of 1 Thessalonians 4:17.
Pre-tribulation rapture theology was developed in the 1830s by जॉन Nelson Darby और the Plymouth brethren, and popularized in the संयुक्त राज्य in the जल्दी 20th century by the wide circulation of the Scofield सन्दर्भ Bible.
Kris नाथन Humphries ( born February 6, 1985 ) is an American professional basketball player with the Brooklyn नेट.
The Philistine cities of Gaza, Ashdod, ashkelon, Ekron, and Gath
The Philistines (,,, or ;, plištim ), pleshet or peleset, were a लोगों who as part of the Sea peoples appeared in the southern coastal क्षेत्रफल of Canaan at the शुरूआत of the Iron आयु ( circa 1175 BC ), सबसे probably from the ईजियन region.
According to the Bible, they ruled the five city-states ( the `` philistine Pentapolis '' ) of Gaza, Ashkelon, Ashdod, ekron and gath, from Wadi गाजा in the south to the yarqon नदी in the उत्तर, but साथ no फिक्स्ड किनारा to the east.
The बाइबल paints them as the किंगडम of Israel 's सबसे खतरनाक enemy.
Originating कही in the Aegean, their population was around 25,000 in the 12th century BC, rising to a peak of 30,000 in the 11th century BC, of which the ईजियन element was not अधिक than half the total, और perhaps much कम.
Nothing is known for निश्चित about the original भाषा or भाषाएं of the philistines, however they were नहीं part of the Semitic Canaanite जनसांख्यिकी.
There is कुछ limited evidence in favour of the assumption that the philistines were Indo-European-speakers either इससे Greece and/or Luwian अध्यक्षों इससे the coast of एशिया नाबालिग.
Philistine-related शब्द found in the बाइबल are not सामीती, and can in कुछ cases, with reservations, be traced back to Proto-Indo-European जड़ें.
by the शुरूआत of the 1st मिलेनियम BCE वे had adopted the सामान्य Canaanite भाषा of the region.
the हथियारबंद Services वोकेशनल Aptitude Battery ( ASVAB ) is a अनेक choice test, administered by the संयुक्त राज्य Military Entrance प्रसंस्करण Command, used to determine qualification for enlistment in the संयुक्त States हथियारबंद forces.
It is प्रायः offered to American ऊँची स्कूल विद्यार्थी when वे are in the 10th, 11th और 12th ग्रेड, though anyone eligible for enlistment may take it.
Although the test is administered by the सैन्य, it is not ( और never रै महरूम ) a requirement कि a test-taker with a qualifying score enlist in the armed forces.
In वित्तीय accounting, a संतुलन sheet or बयान of वित्तीय position is a summary of the financial balances of a sole proprietorship, a business partnership, a corporation or अन्य कारोबार organization, such as an llc or an llp.
एसेट, देनदारी और ownership equity are listed as of a specific तिथि, ऐसे as the end of इसके वित्तीय साल.
a balance चादर is प्रायः described as a `` snapshot of a कम्पनी 's वित्तीय condition ''.
of the चार मौलिक वित्तीय कथन, the संतुलन sheet is the तभी statement which applies to a सिंगल point in time of a business ' calendar year.
A मानक कम्पनी संतुलन sheet has तीन भाग : assets, liabilities और स्वामित्व equity.
the main श्रेणी of एसेट are usually listed first, और typically in order of चलनिधि.
एसेट are followed by the देनदारी.
The अंतर between the एसेट और the liabilities is known as इक्विटी or the net assets or the net लायक or पूंजी of the कम्पनी and according to the accounting equation, net लायक must equal assets minus liabilities.
Another way to look at the same समीकरण is that एसेट equals liabilities plus owner 's इक्विटी.
Looking at the equation in इस रास्ता shows how assets were financed : either by borrowing धन ( देयता ) or by using the मालिक 's money ( मालिक 's equity ).
Balance चादरें हैं प्रायः प्रस्तुत with assets in one खण्ड और देनदारी and जाल worth in the other section with the two भाग `` balancing. ''
A कारोबार ऑपरेटिंग entirely in नकदी can माप इसके profits by withdrawing the संपूर्ण बैंको balance at the end of the काल, प्लस any cash in hand.
however, many businesses are not paid immediately ; they निर्माण up inventories of goods और they acquire buildings and equipment.
in other words : businesses have assets and so they can not, भी if वे want to, तत्काल फेरे these into नकदी at the end of each period.
प्रायः, these businesses owe money to आपूर्तिकर्ता and to tax अधिकारियों, and the proprietors do not withdraw सब their original पूंजी and profits at the समाप्त of प्रत्येक period.
in अन्य words व्यवसायों भी have liabilities.
.17 Hornady Magnum Rimfire, commonly ज्ञात as the.17 hmr, is a rimfire राइफल cartridge विकसित by the ammunition company hornady in 2002.
it descended इससे the.22 Magnum by necking down the.22 Magnum case to take a.17 caliber ( 4.5 mm ) गोली, and it is अधिक costly to shoot than traditional.22 कैलिबर rimfire cartridges.
Commonly loaded साथ a 17 grain ( 1.1 g ) bullet, it can deliver muzzle गतियाँ in excess of 2550 ft/s ( 775 m/s ).
the Schaumburg flyers were a professional baseball टोली आधारित in Schaumburg, Illinois, in the United राज्य.
The flyers were to be a चार्टर member of the उत्तर American League, which is नहीं संबद्ध with Major लीग Baseball, however, the टोली folded in March 2011, before they began play in the nal.
इससे the 1999 ऋतु to the 2010 season, the Flyers निभाई their घर games at Alexian फ़ील्ड, near the Elgin o'hare एक्सप्रेसवे.
The team formerly played in थंडर खाड़ी, ओंटारियो, where वे यहूद known as the Thunder Bay Whiskey jacks.
the टोली was originally a member of the Northern League इससे 1993 to 2010.
on जुलाई 27, 2009, the flyers played मेजबान to Battle of the Sexes II, which pitted the flyers विरूद्ध the नेशनल Pro fastpitch Softball Champions, the Chicago डाकुओं.
Played by आधिकारिक softball rules, the खेल थी seen by an overflow रिकार्ड crowd of 8,918, and was won by the डाकुओं 4-2.
In 1999, the Flyers hired their first manager, Ron Kittle.
Kittle is best known लिये his playing दिनों साथ the Chicago White Sox, and former Chicago Cubs और श्वेत Sox खिलाड़ी Greg Hibbard was the pitching coach.
दौरान the early years of the franchise, kittle did a श्रेणी of tv commercials to promote the टोली, using the gimmick `` ma kittle. '' where he played दोनो himself और his `` ma. ''
the विज्ञापन were कामयाब at sparking कुछ initial ब्याज in the team as the Flyers hoped to steal away fans इससे the nearby Kane County cougars.
the ad mimicked the highly successful Converse ads where लैरी Johnson स्ट्रक्चर as दोनो himself और `` Gramama. ''
At the समाप्त of the 2001 ऋतु, however, Kittle resigned इससे his managerial position, and Jim boynewicz was hired to replace him.
In 2004, the Flyers made it to the उत्तरी लीग चैंपियनशिप Series against the st. Paul संतो.
despite अग्रणी the five-game श्रेणी 2-1, Schaumburg आखिरकार खोया the श्रेणी.
In Game 5, Flyers relief pitcher lyle Prempas अनुमत a game winning grand स्लैम by St. Paul infielder मार्क Mirizzi in the नवीं inning.
the flyers appeared in the Northern League playoffs four times ( 1999, 2003, 2004, 2006 ) but never जीती the चैंपियनशिप.
Some famous players जो निभाई लिये the Flyers were पूर्व ओकलैंड a 's outfielder ozzie Canseco and पूर्व Chicago Cubs outfielder Dwight Smith.
Rachel Hannah Weisz ( / vice / ; born 7 कूच 1970 ) is an English film और theatre actress and former फ़ैशन model.
Weisz began her acting career at ट्रिनिटी हॉल, कैम्ब्रिज in the जल्दी 1990s, then started working in television, appearing in इंस्पेक्टर Morse, the British mini-series स्कारलेट and Black, और the television film Advocates II.
वो बना her फिल्मी début in the फिल्मी Death Machine ( 1994 ), लकिन her breakthrough role came in the film Chain प्रतिक्रिया ( 1996 ), अग्रणी to a high-profile भूमिका as Evelyn Carnahan-O'Connell in the films the Mummy ( 1999 ) and the Mummy रिटर्न ( 2001 ).
अन्य notable films featuring वाइज़ are Enemy at the Gates, परिचय a Boy, constantine, The Fountain and The निरंतर Gardener, लिये जिससे वो received an Academy पुरस्कार, a सुनहरी Globe और a Screen अभिनेताओं ' Guild award for her supporting role as Tessa Quayle.
She has महरूम labelled an `` English rose '' चूंकि उसके minor role in Stealing सौंदर्य ( 1996 ).
वाइज़ भी works in theatre.
Her stage breakthrough was the 1994 revival of Noël कायर 's play Design for जीना, जिससे earned her the London Critics Circle पुरस्कार for the सबसे promising newcomer.
Weisz 's performances भी include the 1999 donmar गोदाम production of टेनेसी Williams ' Suddenly, पिछला Summer, और उनके 2009 revival of A Streetcar नामित ख्वाहिश.
उसके portrayal of blanche dubois in the latter खेल earned उसके the Critics ' Circle थिएटर Award लिये Best Actress.
वो has recently played Evanora in Oz the Great and Powerful.
the अमरीकी सिविल War ( ACW ), also ज्ञात as the युद्ध between the States or simply the Civil War ( देखिए नामकरण ), was a civil युद्ध लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) और several Southern slave states that declared उनके secession and formed the Confederate राज्य of America ( the `` confederacy '' or the `` दक्षिण '' ).
The war had its उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of slavery, विशेषकर the extension of slavery into the western territories.
Foreign powers did not intervene.
बाद four सालो of bloody combat that बाएँ over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's अवसंरचना, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, और the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national एकता और guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed slaves began.
in the 1860 अध्यक्षीय election, Republicans, led by अब्राहम Lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into United States ' territories.
Lincoln जीती, but पहले his inauguration on March 4, 1861, seven cotton-based स्लेव राज्य formed the Confederacy.
outgoing लोकतांत्रिक President James Buchanan और the incoming Republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
lincoln 's inaugural address declared his प्रशासन would नहीं initiate civil war.
Eight remaining slave states जारी to reject calls for secession.
confederate forces जब्त numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the Confederacy.
a सलाम सम्मेलन विफल to find a compromise, and both पहलू prepared लिये युद्ध.
The Confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they होता intervene ; none did और none पहचाना the new confederate राज्य of अमेरिका.
hostilities began on April 12, 1861, जब confederate शक्तियां fired upon Fort Sumter, a key फोर्ट आयोजित by संघ troops in दक्षिण Carolina.
Lincoln पुकारा लिये each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; नतीजतन, four अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the Confederacy, bringing उनके कुल to eleven.
the Union जल्द controlled the border states and स्थापित a नवल नाकेबंदी कि crippled the southern economy.
the पूर्वी थिएटर was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 confederate अभियान into Maryland ( a संघ state ) ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट at the Battle of antietam, dissuading अंग्रेजों हस्तक्षेप.
lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, जिससे made ending गुलामी a war लक्ष्य.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union नष्ट the Confederate river नेवी, then much of उनके पश्चिमी सेना, और the Union at vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
in 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
पश्चिमी successes led to ulysses S. Grant command of all संघ armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. शरमन drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the रास्ता.
the संघ marshaled the resources and manpower to आक्रमण the confederacy from सब directions, and could afford to लड़ो battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
the defending Confederate army failed, अग्रणी to ली 's surrender to ग्रान्ट at appomattox अदालत House on April 9, 1865.
the American सिविल War was एक of the earliest true industrial wars.
railroads, the telegraph, steamships, और mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
the mobilization of civilian factories, खानों, shipyards, banks, transportation और food supplies सब foreshadowed World युद्ध i.
It remains the deadliest war in American इतिहास, resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers और an undetermined number of civilian हताहत.
Historian जॉन huddleston estimates the death टोल at टेन percent of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
आलू ब्रैड is a रूप of bread in which potato replaces a portion of the regular wheat flour.
It is cooked in a variety of विधि, including by बेकिंग it on a hot तवे or pan, or in an oven.
It may be leavened or unleavened, और may have a किस्में of other संघटक baked into it.
The ratio of potato to wheat flour varies significantly from recipe to recipe, साथ some recipes having a बहुमत of potato, and others having a majority of गेहूं flour.
Some व्यंजनों कॉल for mashed potatoes, with अन्य calling लिये निर्जलित potato flakes.
It is available as a commercial उत्पाद in many countries, with समान विसंगतियाँ in संघटक, cooking विधि, and अन्य variables.
The Pacific Time Zone observes standard time by subtracting eight hours इससे Coordinated सार्वभौमिक समय ( ).
The क्लॉक time in इस zone is आधारित on the mean सौर time of the 120th meridian वेस्ट of the ग्रीनविच Observatory.
During daylight saving समय, its time offset is.
In the संयुक्त राज्य and Canada, इस time zone is generically called Pacific Time ( PT ).
Specifically, it is Pacific Standard Time ( pst ) when observing standard समय ( शीत ), and Pacific Daylight Time ( PDT ) जब observing daylight saving समय ( गर्मियाँ ).
Most of Canada uses daylight saving समय.
in Mexico the UTC−8 समय मण्डल is ज्ञात as the उत्तरपश्चिम Zone, which is synchronized साथ the U.S. PDT daylight saving schedule.
The largest नगर in the Pacific समय मण्डल is Los Angeles in कैलिफ़ोर्निया इससे USA ; the city 's महानगर area is the largest in the zone.
The zone is एक hour ahead of the अलास्का Time मण्डल, one hour पीछे the Mountain Time Zone and three घंटों behind the पूर्वी Time मण्डल.
स्टीरियो 8, commonly known as the eight-track cartridge, eight-track tape, or बस eight-track, is a magnetic टेप ध्वनि रिकॉर्डिंग technology.
It थी लोकप्रिय in the संयुक्त States इससे the mid-1960s through to the जल्दी 1980s, but was अपेक्षाकृत unknown in many यूरोपीय countries.
It was, however, very popular in the United Kingdom during इस period.
Stereo 8 थी created in 1964 by a consortium led by विधेयक Lear of lear Jet Corporation, along with Ampex, घाट Motor Company, General मोटर्स, Motorola, and RCA विक्टर रिकॉर्ड ( RCA ).
it थी a further विकास of the समान Stereo-Pak four-track कार्ट्रिज created by Earl `` madman '' Muntz.
a later quadraphonic संस्करण of the format was announced by RCA in अप्रैल 1970 और first known as quad-8, तब later बदला to बस q8.
Ramesses II ( 1303 BC – July or अगस्त 1213 BC ; Egyptian :, alternatively transcribed as rameses and Ramses or ), referred to as Ramesses the Great, was the third Egyptian pharaoh ( reigned 1279 bc – 1213 BC ) of the उन्नीसवीं राजवंश.
He is often regarded as the greatest, most मनाये, and most powerful pharaoh of the Egyptian साम्राज्य.
His successors और बाद Egyptians called उसे the `` Great Ancestor. ''
Ramesses II led several military expeditions into the Levant, re-asserting मिश्र control over Canaan.
he also led रिझाने to the दक्षिण, into Nubia, commemorated in inscriptions at Beit el-wali and Gerf Hussein.
At आयु fourteen, Ramesses was appointed प्रिंस Regent by his father Seti I.
he is believed to have लिया the throne in his late किशोर and is known to have शासित Egypt from 1279 bc to 1213 bc लिये 66 years and 2 months, according to दोनो Manetho and मिश्र 's contemporary historical records.
He थी एकबार said to have lived to be 99 सालो old, लकिन it is more likely that he died in उसके 90th or 91st year.
if he became Pharaoh in 1279 BC as most Egyptologists today मानना, he would have assumed the throne on may 31, 1279 bc, आधारित on उसके known accession तिथि of III shemu दिन 27.
रामेसेस ii celebrated an unprecedented 14 sed त्यौहार ( the first held after thirty years of a pharaoh 's शासनकाल, और then every three सालो ) दौरान उसके reign—more than any अन्य pharaoh.
on his death, he थी buried in a tomb in the घाटी of the किंग्स ; उसके body was बाद स्थानांतरित to a royal cache जहाँ it थी खोजा in 1881, और is अभी on display in the Cairo Museum.
the early part of his शासनकाल थी focused on building cities, temples और monuments.
He स्थापित the नगर of pi-ramesses in the nile Delta as his new capital and प्रमुख base लिये उसके अभियान in सीरियाई.
This city थी built on the remains of the city of Avaris, the capital of the हिक्सोस when they took over, and थी the location of the main Temple of नियत.
he is also ज्ञात as Ozymandias in the Greek sources, from a लिप्यन्तरण into Greek of a part of Ramesses 's सिंहासन name,, `` Ra 's mighty सच्चाई, chosen of Ra ''.
The Texas रेंजरों are a professional baseball टोली located in the Dallas-Fort लायक Metroplex, based in आर्लिंगटन, Texas.
the रेंजरों मताधिकार is फिलहाल a सदस्य of the Western प्रभाग of Major League Baseball 's American League.
चूंकि, the Rangers have played in Rangers ballpark in Arlington in आर्लिंगटन, Texas.
the टोली 's name is borrowed इससे the प्रसिद्ध law enforcement agency of the same नाम.
The franchise थी स्थापित in 1961 by the name of the वॉशिंगटन Senators, an expansion टोली awarded to वॉशिंगटन, D.C., after the city 's पहला ballclub, the original Washington Senators, स्थानांतरित to Minnesota and became the Twins.
बाद the season, the new Senators स्थानांतरित to आर्लिंगटन, टेक्सास, and debuted as the रेंजरों the following वसन्त.
The Texas Rangers बेसबॉल Club has made six appearances in the एमएलबी postseason, सब following division championships, in 1996, 1998, 1999, 2010, 2011 and 2012.
In 2010, the रेंजरों advanced past the प्रभाग श्रेणी लिये the पहला time, defeating the Tampa खाड़ी Rays.
टेक्सास तब brought home their पहला American लीग pennant बाद beating the नई यॉर्क यांकीज़ in छह खेल.
In the 2010 World Series, the franchise 's first, the रेंजरों fell to the सैन Francisco दिग्गज in five खेल.
Their लोन victory made उन्हें the first Texas टोली to win a World Series खेल, the Houston Astros having been swept in उनके 2005 World श्रेणी रूप.
वे repeated as अमरीकी League champions the following साल, तब lost the 2011 संसार Series to the st. Louis Cardinals in seven games.
gaius Julius Caesar (, July 100 bc – 15 March 44 bc ) was a रोमन general, statesman, कौंसुल और notable लेखक of लैटिन prose.
He played a critical role in the events कि led to the निधन of the Roman Republic और the वृद्धि of the Roman Empire.
In 60 BC, Caesar, crassus और pompey formed a political alliance that थी to dominate रोमन राजनीती for several years.
Their attempts to amass शक्ति through populist tactics यहूद opposed by the रूढ़िवादी elite भीतर the रोमन सीनेट, among उन्हें केटो the Younger with the बारंबार support of Cicero.
Caesar 's conquest of gaul, completed by 51 bc, विस्तारित Rome 's territory to the English Channel और the Rhine.
सीज़र became the पहला रोमन सामान्य to cross दोनो when he निर्मित a bridge आरपार the Rhine and conducted the पहला invasion of ब्रिटेन.
These achievements granted उसे बेमेल military शक्ति and threatened to eclipse the standing of pompey, who था realigned himself with the Senate after the death of crassus in 53 BC.
With the gallic Wars concluded, the Senate ordered Caesar to lay down his सैन्य command और return to Rome.
Caesar refused, and marked उसके defiance in 49 bc by क्रासिंग the Rubicon with a legion, leaving his province and illegally entering रोमन territory अंतर्गत arms.
Civil युद्ध resulted, from जिससे he उभरा as the unrivaled leader of रोम.
After assuming कंट्रोल of government, सीज़र began a program of social and सरकारी reforms, सहित the सृष्टि of the Julian calendar.
He centralised the अफसरशाही of the Republic and was eventually proclaimed `` तानाशाह in perpetuity ''.
लकिन the underlying political विरोध था नहीं been resolved, और on the Ides of March ( 15 March ) 44 BC, सीज़र थी assassinated by a समूह of सीनेटरों led by मार्कस Junius ब्रूटस.
A नई series of सिविल wars broke आउट, और the constitutional सरकारी of the गणतंत्र थी never restored.
Caesar 's अपनाया heir Octavian, later known as augustus, रोज़ to एकमात्र power, and the era of the Roman साम्राज्य began.
Much of Caesar 's जीवन is known from his अपना खाते of his military campaigns, and इससे other contemporary स्त्रोत, मुख्यतः the letters और speeches of Cicero और the ऐतिहासिक कृतियाँ of sallust.
The later biographies of सीज़र by suetonius और Plutarch are also major स्त्रोत.
Caesar is deemed to be one of the महानतम military कमांडरों of इतिहास.
Linguistic map of Nigeria, कैमरून, and Benin.
चिह्न in English, outside the University of लागोस
There are hundreds of languages बोला in सीरियल.
The प्रमुख languages are Yoruba, Hausa, Igbo, ईदो, Fulfulde, Kanuri, and ibb.
The official language of Nigeria, English, the former औपनिवेशिक भाषा, थी चुनी to सुकर the cultural and linguistic unity of the country.
English, however, remains an exclusive बचाना of the country 's शहरी elite, और is नहीं widely बोला in rural क्षेत्रों, जिससे comprise three quarters of the देशों जनसांख्यिकी.
सीरियल 's भाषाई diversity is a microcosm of अफ़्रीकी as a whole, encompassing three major अफ़्रीकी भाषाएं families : Afroasiatic, Nilo-Saharan, and Niger–Congo.
सीरियल also has several as-yet unclassified भाषाएं, such as Cen Tuum, which may represent a relic of an even greater विविधता prior to the स्प्रेड of the वर्तमान language परिवारों.
daucus carota ( common names शामिल wild गाजर, ( UK ) bird 's घोंसला, बिशप 's lace, और Queen Anne 's फीता ( उत्तर अमेरिका ) ) is a flowering plant in the परिवार apiaceae, native to temperate regions of यूरोपीय, southwest Asia and naturalised to उत्तर अमेरिका और ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
domesticated गाजर are cultivars of a subspecies, daucus carota subsp. sativus.
in the United States, the title of federal न्यायधीश usually अर्थात् a judge appointed by the President of the United राज्य और पुष्टि by the United राज्य सीनेट pursuant to the Appointments clause in Article II of the संयुक्त States संविधान.
In addition to the Supreme Court of the संयुक्त States, whose existence और some aspects of whose क्षेत्राधिकार हैं beyond the संवैधानिक power of कॉंग्रेस to alter, acts of Congress have स्थापित 13 courts of appeals ( also पुकारा `` circuit courts '' ) साथ appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the संयुक्त States, और 94 United States district न्यायालयों.
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a federal judge ; ऐसे स्थितियाँ include the Chief Justice and संबद्ध Justices of the Supreme Court, सर्किट Judges of the courts of appeals, and ज़िला judges of the United States ज़िला न्यायालयों.
All of these न्यायाधीशों described यूँ far are referred to sometimes as `` Article iii न्यायाधीशों '' because they कसरत the judicial power vested in the judicial शाखा of the federal सरकारी by Article iii of the U.S. Constitution.
in जोड, न्यायाधीशों of the Court of International Trade exercise न्यायिक शक्ति pursuant to Article iii.
अन्य न्यायाधीशों सेवारत in the संघीय courts, including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges, are भी sometimes referred to as `` federal न्यायाधीशों '' ; however, they are neither appointed by the अध्यक्ष nor confirmed by the Senate, और their शक्ति derives from आलेख I instead.
See Article I और Article iii tribunals.
नेल Kim Furtado ( born December 2, 1978 ) is a कनाडाई singer, songwriter and actress.
She has sold 20 लाख एल्बम worldwide और अधिक 20 million singles, bringing her total sales to over 40 लाख रिकॉर्ड around the संसार.
Furtado पहला gained fame with her डेब्यू album, Whoa, नेल !
, जिससे spawned two कामयाब singles, `` i 'm Like a बर्ड `` और `` Turn Off the Light ``. ``
i 'm जैसे a Bird '' जीती a 2001 Juno Award लिये सिंगल of the साल and a 2002 Grammy Award for बेहतरीन Female Pop गायन Performance.
in 2003, फ़र्टाडो released Folklore, जिससे उत्पादित three international singles— `` Powerless ( कह What तुम want ) ``, `` Try `` और `` Força ``.
Three years later वो released Loose, a विश्वव्यापी commercial success.
The album शाखित चार number-one हिट्स : `` promiscuous ``, `` maneater ``, `` Say It Right `` and `` All शुभ बाते ( Come to an End ) ``.
बाद a three-year ब्रेक, she released her first full-length Spanish एल्बम, Mi योजना, and Furtado प्राप्त a Latin ग्रैमी for Best Female Pop गायन Album.
In 2012, फ़र्टाडो 's fourth English-language studio album, The स्पिरिट Indestructible was released.
फ़र्टाडो 's work has अर्जित उसके numerous पुरस्कार and accolades, including 2 Grammy पुरस्कार, 10 juno Awards, 3 muchmusic वीडियो Awards और a star on कनाडा 's Walk of Fame.
Creatures of the Night is the tenth studio एल्बम by Kiss.
It is the बैंड 's last एल्बम लिये कासाब्लांका रिकॉर्ड, the only label the group था ever recorded for at that point.
the album थी dedicated to the memory of कासाब्लांका संस्थापक और जल्दी चुंबन supporter Neil Bogart, who had died of cancer during the रिकॉर्डिंग sessions.
It is also the band 's last एल्बम recorded with Ace Frehley credited as an official सदस्य ( until 1998 's psycho Circus ), and its first album with Vinnie Vincent as the initially uncredited lead guitarist ( Vincent होता बाद be credited, but नहीं featured pictorially on the cover, of 1985 's reissue of the album ).
टच is a निर्णायक means of receiving information.
This photo shows tactile markings identifying stairs for visually impaired people.
The somatosensory प्रणाली is a diverse sensory प्रणाली comprising the receptors and processing centres to produce the sensory modalities such as टच, तापमान, proprioception ( body position ), and nociception ( pain ).
the संवेदी receptors cover the skin and epithelia, skeletal muscles, bones and joints, आतंरिक अंगों, and the cardiovascular system.
While touch is माना one of the पाँच परंपरागत होश, the छाप of touch is formed from अनेक modalities.
in आयुर्विज्ञान, the colloquial पद `` touch '' is प्रायः replaced साथ `` somatic senses '' to better प्रतिबिंबित the variety of mechanisms शामिल.
Somatic होश are sometimes referred to as somesthetic senses, with the समझना that somesthesis includes touch, proprioception और ( depending on उपयोग ) also haptic perception.
the system reacts to diverse stimuli using अलग receptors : thermoreceptors, nociceptors, mechanoreceptors and chemoreceptors.
Transmission of information from the receptors passes via संवेदी nerves through tracts in the स्पाइनल cord and into the brain.
प्रसंस्करण primarily occurs in the प्राथमिक somatosensory क्षेत्रफल in the parietal पालि of the cerebral cortex.
the cortical homunculus was devised by वाइल्डर Penfield.
at its simplest, the प्रणाली works when कार्यकलाप in a sensory neuron is triggered by a specific stimulus such as heat ; इस signal eventually passes to an area in the दिमाग uniquely attributed to that क्षेत्रफल on the body—this allows the processed stimulus to be felt at the correct location.
the point-to-point mapping of the देह सतहों in the brain is called a homunculus and is essential in the creation of a देह चित्र.
This brain-surface ( `` cortical '' ) map is not अपरिवर्तनीय, however.
Dramatic shifts can occur in response to stroke or injury.
Magnolia is a large genus of about 210 flowering संयंत्र species in the subfamily Magnolioideae of the family Magnoliaceae.
It is named after फ्रेंच botanist Pierre Magnol.
Magnolia is an प्राचीन genus.
Appearing before मधुमक्खियों did, the flowers विकसित to प्रोत्साहित परागण by beetles.
To avoid क्षति from pollinating भृंग, the carpels of Magnolia पुष्प are अत्यधिक tough.
fossilised नमूनों of Magnolia acuminata have महरूम मिला dating to 20 लाख years ago, और of पौधे identifiably belonging to the Magnoliaceae dating to 95 लाख years पहले.
Another पहलू of magnolias that is considered to represent an ancestral state is that the flower bud is enclosed in a bract बल्कि than in sepals ; the perianth भाग हैं undifferentiated और called tepals बल्कि than पृथक sepals and petals.
Magnolia shares the tepal characteristic with अनेक other flowering plants निकट the आधार of the flowering plant lineage such as amborella और Nymphaea ( as खूब as साथ many अधिक recently derived plants ऐसे as Lilium ).
the प्राकृतिक range of magnolia species is a disjunct वितरण, साथ a main केन्द्र in east और southeast Asia and a secondary centre in eastern उत्तर अमेरिका, सेंट्रल America, the West Indies, and कुछ प्रजाति in दक्षिण America.
thumb
`` White Christmas '' is an इरविंग बर्लिन सोंग reminiscing about an old-fashioned Christmas सेटिंग.
according to the गिनीज Book of संसार रिकॉर्ड, the version sung by bing Crosby is the best-selling single of all time, with अनुमानित sales in excess of 50 लाख copies worldwide.
Accounts vary as to जब and जहाँ Berlin लिखा the सोंग.
One स्टोरी is कि he wrote it in 1940, in warm la quinta, California, जबकि staying at the La Quinta Hotel, a frequent Hollywood रिट्रीट also favored by writer-producer Frank capra, although the Arizona biltmore also claims the song was written वहीँ.
He प्रायः stayed up सब रात्रि writing — he बताई उसके secretary, `` पकड़ें your pen and take bas this सोंग.
I बस wrote the best सोंग I 've ever लिखा — heck, i बस लिखा the best सोंग कि anybody 's ever लिखा ! ''
Cross-country skiing ( or XC skiing ) is a form of ski touring in जिससे participants propel themselves आरपार snow-covered मैदान using skis और poles.
The कार्यकलाप is popular in many places with large snowfields, primarily उत्तरी Europe, Canada, and अलास्का.
cross-country स्कीइंग is भाग of the nordic skiing sport family, which शामिल ski jumping, Nordic संयुक्त ( cross-country स्कीइंग और ski jumping ), Biathlon ( skiing और राइफल marksmanship ) and ski-orienteering ( which includes map नेविगेशन along snow trails and ट्रैक्स ).
Cross-country स्कीइंग is the आधुनिक स्टाइल of skiing that most resembles prehistoric स्कीइंग, विशेषकर जब किया in the backcountry.
It is also सम्बन्धित to Telemark skiing.
a use tax in United राज्य is पूरक to बिक्री tax जिससे अर्थात्, if तुम ख़रीदे a Taxable product/services without paying any बिक्री कर to vendor, तुम owe use कर.
You must स्वः assess use tax and pay it सीधे to the state where the उत्पाद यहूद consumed or सेवाएं were rendered.
Use tax typically is a tax on consumption but if you ख़रीदे an मद ( without paying बिक्री कर ) और स्टोर it in your warehouse initially, उपयोग tax applies to कि स्थान where goods were stored.
बाद on जब the फाइनल consumption takes प्लेस at some other location, तुम हैं required to अदा the अवकल of tax rate to the jurisdiction of परम प्लेस of consumption.
This वाकई means कि तुम do n't have to pay both बिक्री कर as well as उपयोग Tax on one transaction.
It is only one or the other that तुम are required to अदा on खरीदें of taxable products/services.
if vendor does n't चार्ज कोई बिक्री कर on इसके चालान तब it is the दायित्व of the खरीदार to self assess Use tax और अदा it to the उचित jurisdication.
Use कर is generally चार्ज at the same tax rate of Sales कर but in some states the tax रेट is different.
Use tax is also termed as `` खपत Tax '' or `` Consumer उपयोग Tax ''.
A उपयोग tax is a प्रकार of excise tax levied in the United राज्य by numerous state सरकारें.
It is assessed upon ठोस personal property purchased by a resident of the assessing state लिये उपयोग, storage, or खपत in that state ( not for पुनर्विक्रय ), regardless of where the खरीदें took place.
If a resident of a state makes a खरीदें भीतर उसके home state, पूरा sales tax is सशुल्क at the समय of the लेनदेन.
The use tax applies जब a निवासी of the assessing state purchases an item कि is नहीं subject to उसके home state 's बिक्री tax.
प्रायः, this is due to out-of-state purchases, as well as ordering items through the मेल, by phone, or over the Internet from other राज्य.
the उपयोग कर is typically assessed at the same rate as the sales tax that would have महरूम owed ( if any ) था the same goods been purchased in the state of निवास.
For example, a निवासी of Massachusetts, with a 6.25 % `` sales and उपयोग कर '' on certain goods और services, purchases non-exempt goods or services in New हैम्पशायर for उपयोग, storage or other consumption in Massachusetts.
Under New हैम्पशायर law, the New Hampshire विक्रेता collects no बिक्री कर on the goods, लकिन the मैसाचुसेट्स purchaser/user जरूर स्टिल pay 6.25 % of the sales price directly to the विभाग of Revenue in Massachusetts as a उपयोग tax.
if the वही goods are खरीदा in a US राज्य कि does collect sales tax लिये ऐसे goods at time of खरीदें, whatever taxes were paid by the क्रेता to that state can be deducted ( as a कर क्रेडिट ) from the 6.25 % owed लिये subsequent उपयोग, भंडार or consumption in मैसाचुसेट्स.
With few अपवाद, no state 's vendors होगा charge the native state 's बिक्री tax on goods shipped out of राज्य, meaning सब goods ordered इससे out-of-state are essentially फ़्री of sales tax.
The क्रेता is इसलिए जरूरी to घोषित और अदा the उपयोग tax to उसके home राज्य on ये ordered goods.
The assessing क्षेत्राधिकार may मेक the use tax payable annually, but कुछ states require a मासिक भुगतान.
For उदाहरण, जहाँ a Vermont निवासी has नहीं paid at तनिक 6 % बिक्री कर on प्रॉपर्टी brought in for उपयोग in the state, Vermont law requires दाखिल a tax return ( रूप SU-452 and भुगतान ) by the 20th day of the माह following non-exempt purchases to avoid a $ 50 late fee, a 5 % penalty प्रति माह, to a maximum of 25 %, प्लस statutory interest on the unpaid कर and दंड.
ठेठ छूटों include purchases by charitable non-profit organizations or governmental एजेंसियों, purchases for पुनर्विक्रय in commerce, और purchases via `` casual sales '' by individuals not in the ordinary कोर्स of कारोबार.
भी नोट कि there हैं thousands of tax jurisdictions in the U.S. और many have ever-changing lists of specific प्रकार of goods और सेवाएं that are not taxable.
as an illustration of the complexities : a 2006 Massachusetts law requires भुगतान of tax on `` pre-written '' ( not custom ) software purchased और downloaded over the Internet लिये installation and use in मैसाचुसेट्स, regardless of where it originates.
however, the actual उपयोग of the same software downloaded by a मैसाचुसेट्स निवासी to a सर्वर in another राज्य remains a non-taxed `` सेवा ''.
In कंट्रास्ट, Arkansas generally does not tax anything delivered over the अंतरजाल ( ऐसे as downloaded software or music ), except VoIP which is specifically पारिभाषित as taxable `` telecommunications services ''.
Software ( pre-written or custom ) `` वितरित thru a ठोस मीडियम '' ( i.e., on disk ) in अरकंसास is taxable भी if ordered online, मगर `` कस्टम software लिये a particular customer '' which is non-taxable `` प्रोग्रामिंग services '' even if delivered on a disk.
In most मामले, this complexity is part of the underlying बिक्री tax laws ; but जबकि a brick-and-mortar store रै to सौदे with only the sales कर कानून of its अपना स्थान, remote sellers have to deal with the उपयोग tax laws of अनेक jurisdictions—up to every US state and मोहल्ले कि प्रकृती उन्हें, if the company has a presence or `` nexus '' in every state ( as large `` brick-and-mortar '' विक्रेता जैसे wal-mart और Best ख़रीदे do ).
in आयुर्विज्ञान, pulmonary hypertension ( ph ) is an increase of रक्त pressure in the pulmonary धमनी, pulmonary रग, or pulmonary capillaries, साथ ज्ञात as the lung vasculature, अग्रणी to shortness of साँस, dizziness, fainting, और other symptoms, all of which हैं exacerbated by exertion.
Pulmonary hypertension can be a severe बीमारी with a markedly decreased exercise tolerance और heart विफलता.
It was first identified by Dr. Ernst वोन Romberg in 1891.
according to the सबसे recent classification, it can be one of five different प्रकार : arterial, venous, hypoxic, thromboembolic or miscellaneous.
right
right
Sanuk, a प्रभाग of deckers Outdoor निगम, is a जूते ब्रांड based in Southern कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
sanuk, the Thai शब्द लिये fun, was founded by Southern California देशी Jeff Kelley when he started making sandals out of indoor-outdoor carpet.
The first product created was green carpeted and हकदार the `` फर रियल '' after one shop owner पूछा if the novelty sandal थी `` लिये रियल. ''
The Fur Real first became a runaway hit through बुटीक stores and नहीं the intended surf shops.
The novelty act थी followed up by a चन्दन लपेटा in wire जाल, a leopard print version, और styles made आउट of a poncho सामग्री in a variety of colors.
Sanuk has grown to शामिल style विकल्प लिये मेन, महिलाओं and युवावस्था and is distributed आरपार the संयुक्त राज्य और in over 50 देशों throughout Europe, Asia, South America and ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
Sanuk centers itself around a positive lifestyle advocating the slogan, `` Smile, pass it on ! ``.
in कंप्यूटर science, सरणी programming languages ( also known as vector or multidimensional languages ) generalize operations on scalars to apply transparently to सदिश, matrices, and उच्चतर आयामी arrays.
सरणी programming primitives concisely express broad ideas about आंकड़ा manipulation.
the level of conciseness can be dramatic in certain cases : it is नहीं uncommon to ढूँढें array programming language one-liners that require अधिक than a couple of पृष्ठों of जावा कोड.
APL, designed by Ken iverson, was the पहला प्रोग्रामिंग language to provide सरणी programming capabilities.
the mnemonic apl refers to the शीर्षक of उसके seminal book `` A Programming Language '' and नहीं to arrays per se. Iverson 's contribution to rigor and स्पष्टता थी संभवतः more important than the सरल extension of dimensions to functions.
in the संयुक्त States an annuity अनुबंध is created when an insured party, usually an individual, pays a life insurance company a सिंगल प्रीमियम कि will बाद be distributed back to the insured party over समय.
Annuity contracts traditionally provide a guaranteed distribution of income over time, such as via फिक्स्ड payments, until the मौत of the person or व्यक्तियों named in the अनुबंध or until a final तिथि, whichever आता पहला.
However, the बहुमत of आधुनिक annuity customers उपयोग annuities only to accumulate निधि फ़्री of income और पूंजी gains taxes and to बाद लो lump-sum withdrawals without using the guaranteed-income-for-life feature.
President Barack ओबामा.
Barack Obama with his पहला Supreme Court nominee, Sonia Sotomayor.
Following is a list of all United राज्य संघीय judges appointed by अध्यक्ष Barack Obama during his presidency.
As of April 30, 2013, 187 Obama नामांकित to आलेख iii judgeships have महरूम confirmed by the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट, namely दो justices to the Supreme Court of the United States, 35 न्यायाधीशों to the United राज्य न्यायालयों of appeals and 150 न्यायाधीशों to the United States district courts.
25 further nominations हैं currently प्रतीक्षारत सीनेट कार्रवाई.
There are currently 16 vacancies on the संयुक्त राज्य न्यायालयों of Appeals, 67 vacancies on the संयुक्त States district courts and 22 additional संघीय न्यायपालिका vacancies कि are anticipated to occur before the end of ओबामा 's दूसरी term.
Obama रै नहीं made कोई recess नियुक्ति to the federal न्यायालयों.
ओबामा has बना two nominations to the United राज्य Court of International व्यापार, an Article iii tribunal.
ओबामा also designated बैठे judge Emily C. Hewitt of the United States Court of Federal दावा, an Article i अदालत, to be मुख्य Judge of that court.
इस is a list of airports in Mexico, sorted by स्थान.
मैक्सिको has परिचय 1,834 airports, ranking 2nd in number of एयरपोर्ट in उत्तर America, and 3rd in the world.
Only major National and International Airports हैं shown.
एजेंसी debt also ज्ञात as an Agency बंध is a सुरक्षा, usually a बंध, जारी by a U.S. government-sponsored agency.
The offerings of ये agencies are समर्थित but नहीं guaranteed by the us government चूंकि the agencies are private entities.
Some prominent issuers of these securities are Student ऋण विपणन Association ( Sallie Mae ), संघीय National बंधक संघ ( Fannie mae ) and संघीय घर ऋण Mortgage निगम ( Freddie Mac ).
Agency securities हैं प्रायः exempt इससे राज्य और local taxes, but not संघीय tax.
Agency debt is also पुकारा an agency security.
The susquehanna भाप इलेक्ट्रिक Station, a boiling जल reactor.
The रिएक्टरों हैं located अंदर the आयताकार containment buildings towards the front of the कूलिंग मीनारें.
तीन nuclear-powered American warships, ( top to नीचे ) nuclear cruisers uss Bainbridge and USS long बीच साथ USS Enterprise the first nuclear-powered वायुयान वाहक in 1964.
Crew members are स्पेलिंग out आइंस्टीन 's mass-energy equivalence सूत्र e = mc2 on the flight डेक.
The रूसी nuclear-powered icebreaker NS yamal on a 1994 संयुक्त expedition with the nsf.
Nuclear power is the use of sustained nuclear परिवर्द्धन to generate ऊष्मा and electricity.
नाभिकीय power पौधे provided परिचय 5.7 % of the संसार 's उर्जा और 13 % of the संसार 's विद्युत, in 2012.
in 2013, the iaea report that there are 437 operational nuclear power reactors ( हालांकि not all are producing विद्युत ), in 31 countries.
In addition, वहीँ are approximately 140 naval बरतन using नाभिकीय propulsion in आपरेशन, संचालित by some 180 रिएक्टरों.
वहीँ is an जारी बहस about the उपयोग of नाभिकीय energy.
Proponents, ऐसे as the संसार नाभिकीय संघ, the iaea और पर्यावरणविद लिये Nuclear Energy contend that नाभिकीय शक्ति is a sustainable उर्जा सोर्स that reduces carbon emissions.
Opponents, such as ग्रीनपीस International and nirs, मानना that nuclear power मुद्राएँ अनेक खतरे to people and the environment.
Nuclear शक्ति plant accidents include the chernobyl disaster ( 1986 ), Fukushima Daiichi नाभिकीय disaster ( 2011 ), and the तीन मील द्वीप दुर्घटना ( 1979 ).
वहीँ have also been some nuclear-powered submarine mishaps.
शोध into safety improvements is continuing and नाभिकीय fusion, believed to be safer, may be प्रयुक्त in the future.
As of 2012, according to the IAEA, विश्वव्यापी there were 68 सिविल nuclear power reactors under construction in 15 countries.
in the US the licenses of लगभग हाफ इसके reactors have महरूम extended to 60 years, और plans to निर्माण another दर्जन हैं अंतर्गत serious विचार.
However, Japan 's 2011 फुकुशिमा Daiichi nuclear disaster prompted a rethink of nuclear उर्जा नीति in अनेक countries.
जर्मनी decided to बंद सब इसके reactors by 2022, और Italy has बैन nuclear शक्ति.
Following Fukushima, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Energy एजेंसी halved इसके अनुमान of अतिरिक्त nuclear generating capacity to be निर्मित by 2035.
Photograph of the Berlin वॉल taken इससे the West पक्ष.
The वॉल थी built in 1961 to prevent ईस्ट germans from fleeing from साम्यवादी.
It was an iconic प्रतीक of the ठंडा War और इसके पतन in 1989 marked the end of the War.
the ठंडा War, प्रायः दिनाँक from 1947 to 1991, थी a sustained राज्य of political and military tension between powers in the पश्चिमी Bloc, dominated by the United States with NATO among its allies, and powers in the Eastern bloc, वर्चस्व by the Soviet Union along with the Warsaw Pact.
इस began बाद the success of their अस्थाई wartime गठबंधन against Nazi Germany, leaving the USSR and the US as two superpowers with profound economic और राजनैतिक differences.
A neutral गुट arose with the Non-Aligned Movement founded by मिश्र, India, and Yugoslavia ; this गुट rejected association with either the US-led West or the Soviet-led ईस्ट.
the Cold War थी so named because the two प्रमुख powers—each possessing nuclear weapons and thereby threatened साथ mutual assured विनाश —never मिले in सीधा सैन्य कॉम्बैट.
Instead, in their संघर्ष for global influence they engaged in ongoing psychological warfare और in regular अप्रत्यक्ष confrontations through proxy wars.
चक्र of relative calm होता be followed by high टेंशन, जिससे could have led to संसार युद्ध.
the tensest टाइम्स यहूद दौरान the Berlin Blockade ( 1948–1949 ), the कोरियाई War ( 1950–1953 ), the Suez Crisis ( 1956 ), the Berlin Crisis of 1961, the क्यूबन missile crisis ( 1962 ), the वियतनाम War ( 1959–1975 ), the Yom kippur War ( 1973 ), the Soviet war in अफगानिस्तान ( 1979–1989 ), the सोवियत downing of कोरियाई Air Lines Flight 007 ( 1983 ), और the `` समर्थ archer '' NATO military exercises ( 1983 ).
The conflict थी expressed through सैन्य coalitions, रणनीतिक conventional force deployments, extensive aid to क्लाएंट states, espionage, विशाल propaganda अभियान, conventional and nuclear बाहें दौड़, appeals to न्यूट्रल nations, rivalry at खेल events ( in particular the Olympics ), and technological प्रतियोगिताओं such as the स्पेस रेस.
The us and USSR became शामिल in political and सैन्य conflicts in the Third संसार देशों of Latin America, Africa, the Middle ईस्ट, and Southeast Asia.
to alleviate the risk of a संभावित nuclear war, both पहलू sought राहत of राजनैतिक tensions through détente in the 1970s.
In the 1980s, the United States increased राजनयिक, military, and आर्थिक pressures on the Soviet Union, at a समय when the कम्युनिस्ट state was already suffering from economic stagnation.
in the mid-1980s, the new सोवियत President Mikhail गोर्बाचेव introduced the liberalizing reforms of perestroika ( `` reorganization '', 1987 ) and glasnost ( `` खुलेपन '', ca. 1985 ).
Pressures लिये national independence grew stronger in पूर्वी यूरोपीय, विशेषकर कैंडल.
वे reached a तोड़कर point जब गोर्बाचेव refused to use Soviet सैनिकों to support the faltering सरकारी of East Germany in late 1989.
Within सप्ताह all the satellite राज्य broke free from Moscow in a शांतिपूर्ण wave of revolutions ( वहीँ was कुछ violence in रोमानिया ).
The pressures escalated अंदर the Soviet संघ, where साम्यवादी fell और the USSR थी formally dissolved in लेट 1991.
The United States remained as the world 's तभी superpower.
the ठंडा War and इसके कार्यक्रम have left a significant विरासत, और it is often referred to in popular culture, विशेषकर in media featuring themes of espionage and the threat of nuclear warfare.
Pikes Peak राज्य पार्क is a राज्य park of Iowa, यूएसए, featuring a bluff overlooking the अपर Mississippi नदी विपरीत the confluence of the विस्कॉन्सिन नदी.
The पार्क is operated by the आयोवा विभाग of प्राकृतिक Resources.
It is nearly a thousand acres ( 4 km2 ) in extent.
The nearest city is McGregor, आयोवा.
आयोवा राजमार्ग 76 लगभग defines its northern boundary.
It gets इसके नाम from the Iowa अवतार of pikes Peak, a विशेषकर ऊँची point निहार the gorge of the Upper मिसिसिपी, and जैसे Pikes शिखर in Colorado, is named लिये zebulon Pike.
There are चढ़ाई trails, campgrounds and RV सुविधाएं.
Mountain बाइक are permitted in certain portions of the park.
aside from recreational विकास, the land in the park was never cleared और to a large extent remains as it थी पहले the आगमन of white उपनिवेश.
It is part of a larger complex of parks, reserves और refuges which include Effigy mounds नेशनल Monument, the विभिन्न components of the पीला River State Forest, the enormous Upper Mississippi नदी नेशनल Wildlife and मछली Refuge और much छोटी, much less खूब known driftless क्षेत्रफल नेशनल Wildlife Refuge.
the Northeast आयोवा Legacy ट्रेल System is undergoing विकास, and होगा कनेक्ट तत्व of ये sites.
zac Brown Band is an अमरीकी country/folk band based in Atlanta, Georgia.
the lineup consists of Zac भूरा ( lead vocals, guitar ), Jimmy De Martini ( चलाऊ, vocals ), जॉन Driskell हॉपकिंस ( bass guitar, vocals ), coy Bowles ( गिटार, keyboards ), क्रिस Fryar ( drums ), मिट्टी कुक ( guitar, keyboards, mandolin, स्टील guitar, vocals ), और डेनियल de लॉस रेयेस ( percussion ).
the band has toured throughout the United राज्य, सहित a स्लॉट on the 2009 and 2010 Bonnaroo Music Festival.
They have भी recorded पाँच studio albums, and charted nine Number One singles on the Billboard country charts : `` Chicken Fried ``, `` Toes ``, `` राजमार्ग 20 Ride ``, `` फ़्री ``, `` As वो 's Walking Away ``, `` Colder मौसम ``, `` Knee Deep ``, `` Keep me In Mind ``, and `` अलविदा in Her Eyes `` in जोड to the singles `` whatever It Is `` और `` No Hurry ``, which peaked at क्रमांक 2 on the same chart.
बात radio is a radio स्वरूप containing discussion परिचय topical issues.
Most shows are regularly hosted by a single individual, और often feature interviews with a क्रमांक of different अतिथि.
बात रेडियो typically शामिल an तत्व of listener participation, usually by प्रसारण live conversations between the host and listeners जो `` call in '' ( प्रायः via telephone ) to the दिखाएँ.
Listener contributions हैं usually screened by a दिखाएँ 's producer ( s ) in order to maximize audience ब्याज and, in the मामला of commercial talk radio, आकर्षित विज्ञापनदाता.
Generally, the shows are organized into segments, each separated by a ठहराना लिये विज्ञापन ; however, in पब्लिक or non-commercial radio, music is sometimes played in place of commercials to separate the कार्यक्रम segments.
विसंगतियाँ of talk रेडियो शामिल conservative talk, hot बात, उदार talk and खेल talk.
While बात रेडियो रै historically been associated with am/fm, starting around 2005 the प्रौद्योगिकी for Internet-based talk-radio shows became cost प्रभावी in the form of podcasts.
अभी, it is संभावित for an व्यक्तिगत to उपयोग a variety of सेवाएं to host an Internet-based talk-radio show without carriage by a परंपरागत रेडियो station.
in जोड tv प्रोग्रामिंग from बात and news आउटलेट ऐसे as BBC, सीएनएन, Bloomberg और फॉक्स हैं अभी often available expanding the संसार of talk रेडियो further.
बात रेडियो सुनना is अभी enjoyed not तभी on radios, लकिन a wide variety of अन्य devices and सेवाएं सहित PCs using itunes, स्टेशन निर्देशिका such as Tunein, show निर्देशिका smartphones साथ apps ऐसे as Stitcher.
hippa is a genus of decapod crustaceans in the family Hippidae, containing the following species:
hippa adactyla Fabricius, 1787
Hippa admirabilis ( Thallwitz, 1892 )
hippa alcimede ( De man, 1902 )
Hippa australis hale, 1927
Hippa carcineutes Holthuis & Manning, 1970
hippa celaeno ( de Man, 1896 )
Hippa granulatus ( Borradaile, 1904 )
Hippa hirtipes ( Dana, 1852 )
hippa indica haig, मुरुगन & Balakrishnan नायर, 1986
Hippa marmorata ( Hombron & Jacquinot, 1846 )
Hippa ovalis ( A. Milne-Edwards, 1862 )
hippa picta ( Heller, 1861 )
hippa strigillata ( Stimpson, 1860 )
hippa testudinaria ( Herbst, 1791 )
Hippa truncatifrons ( Miers, 1878 )
It is closely सम्बन्धित to the genus Emerita, and species have प्रायः been transferred between the दो genera.
Jakarta ( ), officially ज्ञात as the Special पूंजी Region of जकार्ता ( ), is the capital and largest city of इंडोनेशिया.
Located on the northwest coast of जावा, Jakarta is the देश 's economic, सांस्कृतिक and राजनैतिक केन्द्र, and साथ a population of 10,187,595 as of नवम्बर 2011, it is the most populous नगर in Indonesia and in Southeast एशिया, and is the thirteenth सबसे आबादी नगर in the world.
the आधिकारिक metropolitan area, known as jabodetabek ( a नाम formed by combining the आरंभिक syllables of जकार्ता, bogor, Depok, Tangerang and bekasi ), is the second largest in the world, yet the metropolis 's suburbs still continue beyond it.
Jakarta is सूचीबद्ध as a वैश्विक नगर in the 2008 वैश्वीकरण and संसार Cities Study समूह and Network ( GaWC ) research.
and रै an area of.
This क्षेत्रफल has population of खूब over 28 million, making it one of the world 's largest conurbations in terms of number of inhabitants.
in 2011, Jakarta ranked 17th among the world 's 200 largest cities, a jump इससे its 2007 ranking of 171.
जकार्ता has grown अधिक rapidly than Kuala Lumpur, बीजिंग and Bangkok.
Established in the fourth सदी, the city became an important trading बंदरगाहों for the Kingdom of sunda.
It was the de facto पूंजी of the डच East Indies ( when it थी ज्ञात as batavia ) and has continued as the पूंजी of इंडोनेशिया चूंकि the देश 's independence was घोषित in 1945.
the नगर is the seat of the ASEAN Secretariat.
Jakarta is परोसा by the soekarno–hatta International Airport, Halim Perdanakusuma International विमानक्षेत्र, और Tanjung priok harbour ; it is connected by several intercity and commuter railways, and served by अनेक बस lines कार्यशील on सुरक्षित busways.
a typical home एयर कंडीशनिंग window unit.
Air conditioning is the प्रक्रम of altering the गुण of air ( primarily तापमान and humidity ) to अधिक favourable शर्तें.
अधिक generally, एयर conditioning can refer to कोई रूप of technological cooling, heating, ventilation, or disinfection कि modifies the condition of air.
An एयर कंडीशनर ( often referred to as एयर कॉन, ac or A/C, and not to be उलझन साथ the संक्षिप्त लिये alternating वर्तमान ) is a major or home appliance, प्रणाली, or mechanism designed to बदलें the air तापमान और आर्द्रता within an area ( प्रयुक्त for cooling और sometimes हीटिंग depending on the air properties at a given time ).
The कूलिंग is typically done using a simple प्रशीतन साईकिल, but sometimes evaporation is प्रयुक्त, commonly लिये comfort cooling in buildings और मोटर वाहनों.
in construction, a पूरा system of heating, ventilation और air conditioning is referred to as `` hvac ``.
`` 6 Foot 7 Foot '' ( भी styled as `` 6'7 '' ) is a song by अमरीकी rapper लील Wayne featuring लेबल mate, कोरी टकराना.
It is लिया from his ninth studio एल्बम, Tha कार्टर IV ( 2011 ).
it was officially released on iTunes on December 16, 2010.
It थी produced by `` A Milli `` producer Bangladesh.
The सोंग samples `` Day-O ( The banana Boat Song ) `` by हैरी Belafonte.
DC बात ( styled as dc बात ), is a ग्रैमी -winning Christian rap trio.
the group थी formed in lynchburg, वर्जिनिया in 1987 by Toby McKeehan, Michael Tait, and केविन अधिकतम स्मिथ.
वे have released five major studio albums together : DC बात ( 1989 ), nu Thang ( 1990 ), फ़्री at Last ( 1992 ), यीशु Freak ( 1995 ), and Supernatural ( 1998 ).
In 2002, the Encyclopedia of Contemporary Christian म्यूज़िक पुकारा DC बात `` the most popular overtly ईसाई act of सब time. ''
In 2000, the group released an EP titled Solo which contained दो solo गीतों from each member.
चूंकि कि time, dc बात रै महरूम on an indefinite hiatus, और the तीन बैंड सदस्यों have प्रत्येक led solo careers.
They have performed and recorded व्यक्तिगत songs together several टाइम्स दौरान the 2000s, हालांकि the समूह never officially reunited or disbanded.
the समूह 's musical style विकसित significantly throughout उनके करियर.
Their पहला two releases, DC बात और Nu थांग, were of the hip हॉप genre.
dc Talk 's तीसरा album, फ़्री at पिछला, also मुख्यतः took influence from the हिप hop स्टाइल, हालांकि उनके music began taking on a rock ध्वनि.
The trio 's पिछला दो albums, यीशु freak and Supernatural, यहूद predominantly pop rock.
The Bible is a संकलन of अनेक shorter किताबे written at अलग times और बाद समवेत into the biblical canon.
All but the shortest of these books have महरूम विभाजित into अध्याय, generally a page or so in length, since the early 13th सदी.
Since the mid-16th सदी, प्रत्येक अध्याय has महरूम further विभाजित into `` verses '' of a few short लाइनों or sentences.
sometimes a वाक्य spans more than one verse, as in the मामला of, and sometimes there is more than एक वाक्य in a सिंगल verse, as in the case of.
as the chapter और verse divisions यहूद not part of the original ग्रन्थ, they रूप भाग of the paratext of the Bible.
the Jewish divisions of the यहूदी टेक्स्ट differ at various points from those प्रयुक्त by Christians.
For उदाहरण, in यहूदी tradition, the ascriptions to अनेक Psalms हैं regarded as स्वतंत्र verses, making 116 अधिक आयतें, whereas the स्थापित Christian practice is to गिनती और क्रमांक each Psalm ascription together with the first verse following it.
Some chapter divisions भी occur in different स्थान, e.g. in यहूदी Bibles is numbered as in ईसाई translations.
An index ( plural : indexes ) is a list of words or phrases ( 'headings ' ) and संबद्ध संकेतक ( 'locators ' ) to where useful material relating to कि heading can be found in a document.
in a traditional back-of-the-book index the headings होगा शामिल names of लोगों, places और events, and concepts selected by a व्यक्ति as होने प्रासंगिक और of interest to a possible रीडर of the book.
The pointers are typically page numbers, paragraph numbers or खण्ड numbers.
In a library catalog the words हैं लेखक, titles, विषय headings, etc., और the संकेतक हैं कॉल संख्याएँ.
Internet ढूंढें इंजन, such as Google, and full text searching सहायता provide अभिगम to information but are नहीं as selective as an index, as वे provide non-relevant links, and may miss relevant information if it is नहीं phrased in exactly the रास्ता वे expect.
in United राज्य financial regulation, a suspicious activity report ( or sar ) is a रपट made by a financial institution to the वित्तीय Crimes प्रवर्तन Network ( FinCEN ), an agency of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of the Treasury, regarding संदिग्ध or potentially संदिग्ध activity.
Facebook on the Ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online social networking service, जिनकी नाम तना इससे the colloquial नाम लिये the किताब given to students at the start of the academic साल by some university administrations in the United States to help विद्यार्थी get to know each other.
it थी founded in February 2004 by चिह्नित zuckerberg with his कॉलेज roommates and fellow हार्वर्ड University students Eduardo Saverin, Andrew mccollum, डस्टिन Moskovitz और क्रिस ह्यूजेस.
The website 's सदस्यता was initially limited by the founders to Harvard students, but was expanded to other कॉलेजों in the Boston क्षेत्रफल, the आइवी लीग, और Stanford विश्वविद्यालयों.
It धीरे added support for विद्यार्थी at various other universities पहले opening to high school students, and eventually to anyone aged 13 and over.
फेसबुक अभी allows any users who घोषित themselves to be at least 13 सालो old to become registered users of the site.
Users must register पहले using the site, बाद जिससे they may बनाएँ a personal प्रोफ़ाइल, add अन्य उपयोक्ता as friends, and एक्सचेंज संदेश, including automatic notifications जब वे update their profile.
Additionally, उपयोक्ता may जुड़ें common-interest user groups, व्यवस्थित by workplace, स्कूल or कॉलेज, or other characteristics, and categorize their friends into lists ऐसे as `` People From Work '' or `` बंद मित्रों ''.
As of सितंबर 2012, Facebook रै over एक अरब क्रियाशील उपयोक्ता.
According to a may 2011 उपभोक्ता Reports survey, there हैं 7.5 million children under 13 with accounts and 5 million under 10, violating the site 's शर्तें of सेवा.
In may 2005, Accel साझेदार invested $ 12.7 लाख in Facebook, और जिम Breyer added $ 1 million of his own money to the घट.
A जनवरी 2009 Compete.com study क्रमित Facebook as the सबसे प्रयुक्त सोशल networking सेवा by worldwide मासिक क्रियाशील उपयोक्ता.
entertainment Weekly included the साईट on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list, saying, `` How on धरती किया we stalk our exes, remember our co-workers ' birthdays, bug our friends, and play a rousing खेल of scrabulous पहले Facebook ? ''
Critics, such as Facebook Detox, state कि Facebook has turned into a नेशनल obsession in the United States, resulting in vast amounts of time खोया and प्रोत्साहित आत्ममोह.
Quantcast estimates Facebook has 138.9 लाख monthly unique U.S. विज़िटर in May 2011.
According to Social Media Today, in अप्रैल 2010 an estimated 41.6 % ( 129.5 million ) of the U.S. जनसांख्यिकी था a Facebook खाता.
nevertheless, फेसबुक 's market growth started to stall in some regions, साथ the site losing 7 लाख active उपयोक्ता in the संयुक्त States और Canada in may 2011.
Facebook आखिरकार filed for an आरंभिक पब्लिक offering on February 1, 2012, और was headquartered in मेनलो Park, California.
Facebook inc. began selling stock to the पब्लिक और trading on the नैस्डैक on May 18, 2012.
सल्फोनेमाइड functional group
hydrochlorothiazide is a sulfonamide और a thiazide.
Furosemide is a sulfonamide, but नहीं a thiazide.
Sulfonamide or sulphonamide is the basis of several groups of drugs.
the original जीवाणुरोधी sulfonamides ( sometimes called sulfa drugs or sulpha drugs ) are synthetic antimicrobial एजेंटों that contain the सल्फोनेमाइड group.
Some sulfonamides are also विहीन of antibacterial activity, e.g., the anticonvulsant sultiame.
the sulfonylureas और thiazide diuretics हैं नए ड्रग groups based on the जीवाणुरोधी sulfonamides.
Sulfa allergies हैं आम, hence medications containing sulfonamides are विहित carefully.
it is important to मेक a distinction between sulfa drugs and other sulfur-containing दवाएँ and एडिटिव, such as sulfates और sulfites, जिससे are chemically unrelated to the sulfonamide group, और do not कारण the same hypersensitivity reactions देखी in the sulfonamides.
इस is a list of characters from जार्ज Lopez.
घरेलू geese ( आंसर anser domesticus or Anser cygnoides ) हैं domesticated धूसर geese ( either Greylag geese or Swan Geese ) kept as poultry लिये उनके meat, eggs, और bas feathers since ancient times.
30 सेकेंड to Mars is an अमरीकी चट्टान band from लॉस Angeles, formed in 1998.
Since 2007, the बैंड has consisted of कर्ता jared Leto ( सीसे vocals, rhythm guitar, songwriter ), Shannon Leto ( ड्रम, percussion ) and Tomo Miličević ( lead guitar, keyboards ).
following the departure of मैट Wachter ( now of Angels & airwaves ) in 2007, Tim kelleher became the bassist लिये the समूह, performing live तभी with दोनो jared and Miličević रिकॉर्डिंग बास for studio recordings, while Braxton olita ( keyboards ) was added to the touring lineup in 2009.
Previously, the समूह also featured guitarists Solon Bixler ( अभी of Great उत्तरी ) and केविन Drake ( now of polaroid Kiss ).
To तिथि, 30 सेकेंड to Mars have released three स्टुडियो एल्बम – 30 सेकेंड to मंगल ( 2002 ), A खूबसूरत Lie ( 2005 ), This is War ( 2009 ) और three extended plays – AOL Sessions Undercover ( 2007 ), to the Edge of the Earth ( 2008 ), and MTV Unplugged : 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2011 ).
30 Seconds to Mars ' म्यूज़िक has been associated ज़्यादातर with neo-prog, प्रगतिशील मेटल and post-grunge, लकिन वे have भी included emo, screamo, space rock and synthrock into उनके म्यूज़िक.
वे have महरूम compared to गुलाबी Floyd ( who यहूद an influence on their work ) और औजार because of their उपयोग of philosophical और spiritual गीत, concept एल्बम और their उपयोग of प्रायोगिक music.
A Christmas स्टोरी is a 1983 अमरीकी Christmas comedy फिल्मी based on the short कहानियां और semi-fictional उपाख्यानों of लेखक and raconteur जां गड़रिये, आधारित on his किताब In God We विश्वास, सब Others अदा Cash, with some elements निकला from Wanda हिक्की 's रात्रि of Golden यादें.
it was निर्देशित by Bob Clark.
The film has चूंकि become a अवकाश क्लासिक और is shown numerous times on टेलीविज़न during the क्रिसमस ऋतु on the network TBS, often in a 24-hour मैराथन.
In 2012, the फिल्मी was selected for preservation in the National Film Registry by the पुस्तकालयों of Congress for होने `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
a Joe 's Crab Shack branch in सैन डिएगो, CA.
The भवन थी initially a rowing club and was later converted into the restaurant.
Joe 's Crab Shack is an अमरीकी chain of beach-themed seafood casual डाइनिंग restaurants स्वामित्व by Ignite रेस्तरां समूह.
Founded in Houston, Texas, the restaurant अभी operates स्थितियाँ all across the संयुक्त राज्य of America.
It serves seafood और American cuisine.
the रेस्तरां also have a तोहफा shop that बिकता facetious t-shirts featuring वाक्यांश advertising Joe 's seafood चुनाव.
It is based in Houston, टेक्सास.
नई यॉर्क नगर क्रूज Liner टर्मिनल in Hell 's Kitchen at 52nd Street.
the New यॉर्क Passenger Ship टर्मिनल ( also known as the लक्ज़री Liner पंक्ति or मैनहटन Cruise टर्मिनल or नई York Cruise Terminal ) is a terminal for ocean-going passenger ships on मैनहटन 's west side.
the टर्मिनल consists of उत्तर River Piers 88, 90, 92 and 94 on the Hudson River between West 46th और West 54th Street.
( As a general नियम, pier संख्याएँ in मैनहटन can be determined by adding 40 to the corresponding cross-street. )
Ships now डॉक at पियर 88, 90 and 92.
Pier 94 on the north पक्ष is now प्रयुक्त लिये exhibition space.
बांध 86, once प्रयुक्त by United राज्य Lines, is अभी home to the USS Intrepid.
in 2003, the टर्मिनल संभाला 900,000 passengers.
The नगर is forecasting कि 1.5 million will use the terminal by 2017.
the piers हैं long और अलावा.
They were first completed in 1935 to replace the चेल्सी Piers as the city 's लक्ज़री liner टर्मिनल.
The new terminal थी built to हैंडल बडे जहाजों that था outgrown the Chelsea पियर.
the piers were renovated in 1970 और हैं फिलहाल undergoing another $ 150 लाख नवीकरण.
The renovated plans call for it to handle three विशाल जहाजों at a time.
In doing renovations, the नगर is also considering decommissioning बांध 92.
Logo of the नई York क्रूज Terminal.For
decades the टर्मिनल was the only ocean-going यात्री terminal in New York harbor.
With an upsurge in क्रूज ship ट्रैफ़िक and the terminal 's क्षमता to handle comfortably only तीन large ships at a time, two new terminals have opened in the harbor — the केप स्वतंत्रता क्रूज Port opened in 2004 in Bayonne, नई जर्सी ( used by royal Caribbean क्रूज Line, Celebrity क्रूज़ और azamara क्रूज़ ), and the Brooklyn क्रूज टर्मिनल ( प्रयुक्त by the Queen Mary 2 and other ships of the Carnival Corporation क्रूज ब्रांड्स ) खोली in 2006 in Brooklyn, New यॉर्क.
the West पक्ष Highway takes a छोटी jog ईस्ट from the पियर to नीचे West 42nd गली because जब the टर्मिनल was निर्मित land था to be taken away from मैनहटन to allow लिये longer पियर.
The us Army corps of Engineers, who कंट्रोल the waterfront dimension, would नहीं extend the pierhead line farther into the river, so the city विस्तारित the pier by cutting दूर at the land.
The city earlier किया this for the Chelsea Piers ; however in Chelsea only landfill was taken दूर.
At the यात्री Terminal वास्तविक मैनहटन schist थी taken दूर.
From downstream in the नदी
Many प्रमुख passenger जहाजों have docked there, including the RMS महारानी Mary 2 and Freedom of the Seas, पहले the Brooklyn and Bayonne terminals opened.
the ss Normandie caught आग and subsequently capsized at its Pier 88 berth during World War ii.
The normandie, renamed USS Lafayette, lies capsized in the frozen mud at Pier 88 in the winter of 1942
Norwegian क्रूज लकीर 's जल्द to be newest ship the Norwegian Breakaway होगा sail year-round आउट of the नई York यात्री Ship टर्मिनल.
the city होगा spend $ 4 million to renovate and upgrade the cruise terminal to accommodate the ship.
This is an अवलोकन of the नियमित, recurring, and अन्य वर्ण of the TV series ncis.
Christian सही is a पद used in the United राज्य to describe right-wing Christian political groups that are characterized by उनके strong support of socially रूढ़िवादी policies.
Christian conservatives principally तलाश to apply their understanding of the teachings of christianity to politics and पब्लिक policy by proclaiming the मान of those शिक्षाओं and/or by seeking to use those teachings to influence विधि and पब्लिक policy.
in the u.S., the ईसाई सही is an informal coalition formed around a core of धर्मान्तरण protestants that draws `` support from politically conservative Catholics, Jews, Mormons, और occasionally secularists '' जो share उनके लक्ष्य.
The movement has its roots in अमरीकी राजनीती going back as far the 1940s और has महरूम especially influential since the 1970s.
Their influence draws, in part, इससे grassroots activism as well as their focus on social issues and ability to motivate the electorate around those issues.
The ईसाई सही is notable आज for advancing socially conservative positions on issues including school prayer, स्टेम cell शोध, homosexuality, contraception, गर्भपात, और pornography.
Although the Christian right is usually संबद्ध साथ the U.S., the movement has been a key factor in the politics of Canada, The Netherlands, Northern आयरलैंड और ऑस्ट्रेलिया, among others.
दूर East Movement ( stylized as far★east गति or abbreviated FM ) is an American हिप hop band quartet based in Los एंजिल्स.
the समूह formed in 2003 और consists of Kev nish ( केविन nishimura ), prohgress ( James roh ), j-splif ( jae Choung ), और dj virman ( Virman coquia ).
Far East Movement 's पहला claim to fame थी उनके सोंग `` गोलाकार Round '' featured in the हॉलीवुड movie, the तेज़ and the Furious : Tokyo Drift, और इसके subsequent soundtrack, वीडियो खेल और dvd.
Since `` गोलाकार गोलाकार '', the group रै महरूम featured on विभिन्न संजाल shows सहित,, Entourage, Gossip लड़की, and Finishing the खेल ( a प्रदर्शित फिल्मी at sundance 2007 ).
Their single `` जैसे a g6 `` hit क्रमांक one on the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 Chart और on iTunes as खूब in late अक्तूबर 2010.
Far East गति also has the भेद of होने the first asian-american group to earn a # 1 hit on the Billboard Hot 100 in the संयुक्त राज्य.
LR44 is the आईईसी नामांकन लिये an क्षारीय 1.5 volt बटन कोशिका, commonly used in छोटी led flashlights, digital thermometers, calculators, calipers, घड़ियाँ, घड़ियाँ, खिलौने and laser pointers.
LR44 alkaline cell
The battery नामकरण is defined by the International Electrotechnical Commission ( IEC ) in इसके 60086-3 standard ( प्राथमिक batteries, भाग 3 देखें बैटरी ).
the अक्षर L indicates the electrochemical system प्रयुक्त ; a zinc negative एलेक्ट्रोड, manganese dioxide depolarizer and धनात्मक एलेक्ट्रोड, and an क्षारीय electrolyte.
R44 indicates a round cell 11.4±0.2 mm व्यास और 5.2±0.2 mm height as defined by the IEC standard 60086.
Manufacturers have their अपना part numbers for IEC प्रकार LR44 batteries including:
lr44, LR44G, LR44GD, LR44H
LR1154, L1154, L1154C, l1154f, L1154G, l1154h
6135-99-792-8475 ( nsn )
1166a
AG13, a613, AG14, ag-14, g13a, G13-A
157, 303, 357
a76, gda76, GP76A, GPA7, GPA75, GPA76, gps76A,
1128MP, 208-904, A-76, CA18, ca19, CR44, D76A, KA, KA76, ms76h, px76a, px675a, rpx675, rw82, sb-f9, V13GA
4.5-volt, d, c, AA, AAA, AAAA, A23, 9-volt, CR2032 and LR44 बैटरी
Other types of बैटरी are or यहूद made in the R44 size.
Formerly, पारा batteries यहूद made as बटन cells ( प्रकार MR44 और nr44 ).
Zinc-air batteries type PR44 require एयर to work.
Silver-oxide batteries type SR44 may provide extra क्षमता compared to lr44 types but have slightly different वोल्टेज विशेषताएँ.
Performance of a device meant to use a silver-oxide battery may be degraded साथ substitution of LR44 types.
Manufacturer 's संख्याएँ लिये silver oxide R44 size cells include:
sr44/sr44w/sr44sw
6135-99-651-3240 ( nsn )
SR1154
1107SO
1131sop
SG13
s76
epx76 ( energizer )
303/357 ( d357h )
Hurricane कैटरीना was the deadliest और most destructive Atlantic hurricane of the 2005 अटलांटिक hurricane season.
It was the costliest प्राकृतिक disaster, as well as एक of the five deadliest hurricanes, in the history of the United राज्य.
Among अंकित अटलांटिक hurricanes, it was the sixth strongest overall.
at least 1,833 people died in the hurricane and subsequent floods, बनाना it the deadliest u.S. hurricane since the 1928 okeechobee hurricane ; total property damage was estimated at $ 81 billion ( 2005 USD ), nearly triple the क्षति brought by Hurricane Andrew in 1992.
hurricane Katrina formed over the बहामा on August 23, 2005 and crossed दक्षिणी Florida as a moderate Category 1 hurricane, causing कुछ deaths और flooding वहीँ पहले strengthening rapidly in the गल्फ of मैक्सिको.
The hurricane strengthened to a Category 5 hurricane over the warm Gulf water, लकिन weakened before making its second landfall as a Category 3 hurricane on the morning of Monday, अगस्त 29 in southeast louisiana.
It caused severe विनाश along the गल्फ coast इससे central Florida to टेक्सास, much of it due to the storm surge.
The most significant number of मौतों occurred in New ऑरलियन्स, louisiana, जिससे flooded as the levee प्रणाली catastrophically failed, in many cases hours after the storm था स्थानांतरित inland.
आखिरकार 80 % of the city and विशाल tracts of neighboring parishes became flooded, and the floodwaters lingered for weeks.
however, the worst प्रॉपर्टी क्षति occurred in तटीय areas, ऐसे as all Mississippi beachfront towns, जिससे यहूद flooded over 90 % in घंटों, as नौकाएँ and casino barges rammed buildings, pushing cars and घरों अंतर्देशीय, with waters reaching 6–12 miles ( 10–19 km ) इससे the beach.
The hurricane surge protection असफलताओं in New Orleans are considered the worst सिविल अभियान्त्रिकी disaster in u.S. history and prompted a मुकदमा against the U.S. Army corps of Engineers ( usace ), the designers और builders of the तटबन्ध प्रणाली as mandated by the Flood Control अधिनियम of 1965.
Responsibility लिये the failures and बाढ़ was laid squarely on the Army Corps in January 2008 by Judge Stanwood Duval, u.S. District अदालत, लकिन the संघीय agency could नहीं be held financially liable due to sovereign प्रतिरक्षण in the Flood कंट्रोल Act of 1928.
There थी also an investigation of the responses from संघीय, राज्य and लोकल सरकारें, resulting in the resignation of Federal Emergency Management Agency ( fema ) director Michael D. Brown, और of New Orleans पुलिस Department ( nopd ) Superintendent एडी Compass.
Several agencies सहित the United राज्य coast गार्ड ( USCG ), नेशनल Hurricane Center ( NHC ), और National Weather सेवा ( NWS ) यहूद commended लिये their actions.
They provided सटीक hurricane weather tracking forecasts with sufficient lead time.
भी the सबसे insistent appeals from national, राज्य और लोकल public officials to निवासियों to evacuate before the storm did नहीं warn that the levees could उल्लंघन और fail.
U.S. कर्ज़ इससे 1940 to 2011.
Red लाइनों indicate the `` debt आयोजित by the पब्लिक '' and ब्लैक lines indicate the total नेशनल debt or सकल पब्लिक कर्ज़.
the अंतर is the `` intragovernmental debt, '' जिससे शामिल दायित्वों to सरकारी programs ऐसे as सोशल Security.
Stated as a formula, National कर्ज़ = कर्ज़ held by the Public + intragovernmental कर्ज़.
The दूसरी फलक shows the two कर्ज़ figures as a percentage of U.S. जीडीपी ( dollar value of u.S. economic production for that year ).
The शीर्ष panel is deflated so every year is in 2010 dollars.
the United राज्य public कर्ज़ is the money borrowed by the संघीय सरकारी of the United States through the issuing of प्रतिभूति by the Treasury और other संघीय government agencies.
us पब्लिक debt consists of two components:
Debt held by the पब्लिक includes Treasury प्रतिभूति आयोजित by निवेशकों outside the federal government, including कि आयोजित by individuals, corporations, the संघीय आरक्षित प्रणाली और विदेशी, state और local governments.
Debt आयोजित by government खाते or intragovernmental कर्ज़ includes non-marketable Treasury securities held in खाते administered by the संघीय सरकारी कि are owed to program beneficiaries, such as the सोशल Security विश्वास निधि.
Debt आयोजित by सरकारी accounts represents the संचयी surpluses, including ब्याज आय, of these खाते that have महरूम invested in राजकोष securities.
Public debt increases or decreases as a result of the annual unified budget deficit or surplus.
The संघीय government बजट deficit or surplus is the अंतर between सरकारी रसीदें और spending, ignoring intra-governmental हस्तांतरण.
however, कुछ spending that is excluded from the deficit ( supplemental appropriations ) भी adds to the debt.
Historically, the US पब्लिक कर्ज़ as a share of जीडीपी increased दौरान युद्धों और recessions, and subsequently declined.
लिये example, debt held by the पब्लिक as a share of जीडीपी peaked बस after संसार युद्ध II ( 113 % of जीडीपी in 1945 ), but then गिरी over the following 30 सालो.
in हाल decades, however, large बजट deficits and the resulting increases in debt have led to चिंता about the long-term sustainability of the federal सरकारी 's fiscal policies.
On 2 April 2013, कर्ज़ held by the public was approximately $ 11.959 trillion or about 75 % of GDP.
intragovernmental holdings stood at $ 4.846 trillion, giving a combined total public debt of $ 16.805 खरब.
as of January 2013, $ 5.6 खरब or लगभग 47 % of the debt held by the public थी owned by विदेशी investors, the largest of which were the लोगों 's Republic of China और Japan at just over $ 1.1 trillion each.
In बास्केट, an assist is attributed to a player जो गुजरता the बॉल to a teammate in a way that leads to a स्कोर by फ़ील्ड लक्ष्य, अर्थ that he or वो was `` assisting '' in the basket.
वहीँ is some निर्णय involved in deciding whether a passer should be credited with an assist.
An assist can be scored for the passer भी if the खिलाड़ी who receives the pass makes a बास्केट after dribbling the बॉल.
however, the असली definition of an assist किया नहीं शामिल such परिस्थितियों, so the comparison of assist statistics across eras is a complex matter.
तभी the pass directly before the स्कोर may be गिने as an assist, so no more than एक assist can be recorded प्रति field लक्ष्य ( unlike in अन्य sports, ऐसे as ice हॉकी ).
A pass कि leads to a शूटिंग foul and scoring by फ़्री throws does not गिनती as an assist in the NBA, but करता in fiba play ( तभी one assist is awarded per set of free throws in जिससे at तनिक एक free throw is made ).
Point guards tend to मिलेंगी the most assists per खेल ( apg ), as उनके भूमिका is primarily that of a passer और ballhandler.
centers tend to मिलेंगी fewer assists, but centers साथ शुभ मंजिल उपस्थिति and court दृष्टि can dominate a टोली by assisting.
Being inside the key, the center often रै the best angles and the best position for `` dishes '' और other छोटी passes in the scoring area.
बीच Wilt Chamberlain led the NBA in assists in 1968.
A दमदार center साथ inside-scoring prowess, such as पूर्व एनबीए center hakeem olajuwon, can भी be an effective assistor क्युकी the रक्षा 's double-teaming tends to open up offense in the रूप of shooters.
The एनबीए single-game assist record is 30, held by स्कॉट Skiles of the ऑरलैंडो जादू विरूद्ध the डेनवर Nuggets, on December 30, 1990.
the NBA record for most career assists is held by जॉन Stockton with 15,806.
the mill or mille ( ) ( sometimes mil in the uk, जब discussing property taxes in the संयुक्त States, or previously in Cyprus और Malta ) is a now-abstract ईकाई of currency used sometimes in accounting.
In the United राज्य, it is a notional unit समतुल्य to of a संयुक्त States डालर ( a tenth of a cent ).
In the संयुक्त किंगडम it was प्रस्तावित during the decades of चर्चा on the decimalization of the पाउंड as a division of the पाउंड sterling.
Several other मुद्राएँ प्रयुक्त the मिल, ऐसे as the maltese lira.
The term आता इससे the Latin `` millesimum '', meaning `` thousandth part ''.
The greco-persian Wars ( also often पुकारा the Persian Wars ) were a श्रेणी of conflicts between the Achaemenid साम्राज्य of फारस and city-states of the Hellenic world that started in 499 BC और lasted जबतक 449 BC.
the टक्कर between the fractious राजनैतिक संसार of the Greeks और the enormous empire of the Persians began when Cyrus the ग्रेट conquered ionia in 547 bc.
Struggling to rule the independent-minded cities of Ionia, the Persians appointed उत्पीड़क to नियम प्रत्येक of them.
इस would prove to be the source of much trouble लिये the Greeks and Persians alike.
In 499 BC, the तब tyrant of Miletus, aristagoras, embarked on an expedition to जीतें the island of Naxos, with Persian support ; however, the expedition was a क़हर और, pre-empting उसके dismissal, Aristagoras incited सब of हैलेनिक Asia Minor into rebellion विरूद्ध the फारसियों.
This was the beginning of the Ionian विद्रोह, which होता पिछला until 493 bc, progressively drawing more regions of एशिया नाबालिग into the conflict.
aristagoras secured सैन्य support इससे एथेंस and Eretria, और in 498 BC ये शक्तियां helped to कैप्चर and बर्न the पारसी regional पूंजी of sardis.
the Persian king दारा the Great vowed to have बदला on Athens और eretria लिये this अधिनियम.
The revolt continued, साथ the दो sides effectively stalemated throughout 497–495 BC.
in 494 bc, the फारसियों regrouped, and attacked the epicentre of the विद्रोह in Miletus.
at the Battle of Lade, the Ionians suffered a decisive शिकस्त, and the rebellion collapsed, साथ the final members being stamped out the following साल.
Seeking to सुरक्षित उसके empire इससे further revolts और इससे the interference of the mainland Greeks, Darius embarked on a योजना to जीतें यूनानियों और to punish एथेंस and eretria for burning sardis.
The पहला पारसी invasion of Greece began in 492 bc, साथ the Persian general mardonius conquering Thrace और macedon पहले several mishaps मजबूर an जल्दी समाप्त to the अभियान.
In 490 BC a दूसरी फ़ोर्स was भेजा to यूनानियों, इस समय आरपार the ईजियन समुद्र, अंतर्गत the कमांड of datis and Artaphernes.
This expedition subjugated the Cyclades, पहले besieging, capturing and razing eretria.
However, while en रूट to आक्रमण एथेंस, the पारसी force was decisively defeated by the athenians at the बैटल of मैराथन, ending Persian प्रयत्न for the time being.
दारा then began to plan to पूरा the conquest of यूनानियों, but died in 486 BC and responsibility for the conquest passed to उसके बेटे Xerxes I.
in 480 BC, Xerxes personally led the second पारसी invasion of Greece साथ एक of the largest प्राचीन armies कभी assembled.
Victory over the 'Allied ' यूनानी राज्य ( led by Sparta and Athens ) at the Battle of thermopylae allowed the Persians to torch Athens और overrun सबसे of यूनानियों.
However, while seeking to destroy the combined Greek fleet, the फारसियों suffered a severe defeat at the बैटल of Salamis.
the following साल, the confederated Greeks गई on the offensive, defeating the Persian फौज at the Battle of plataea, और ending the आक्रमण of यूनानियों.
The अलाइड Greeks followed up their कामयाबी by destroying the rest of the Persian fleet at the Battle of mycale, before expelling Persian garrisons from Sestos ( 479 BC ) और Byzantium ( 478 BC ).
The क्रियाएँ of the सामान्य Pausanias at the siege of byzantium alienated many of the Greek states from the Spartans, और the anti-Persian गठबंधन was therefore reconstituted around Athenian leadership, as the so-called Delian League.
The Delian League जारी to campaign against Persia for the अगला three decades, beginning with the expulsion of the remaining Persian garrisons इससे यूरोपीय.
at the बैटल of the Eurymedon in 466 BC, the League जीती a दोगुना विजय कि finally secured freedom for the cities of Ionia.
However, the League 's involvement in an मिश्र विद्रोह ( from 460–454 BC ) resulted in a विनाशकारी शिकस्त, and further campaigning थी निलंबित.
a fleet was sent to साइप्रस in 451 bc, but हासिल little, and जब it withdrew the greco-persian Wars खींचा to a शांत समाप्त.
Some historical sources suggest the end of hostilities was चिह्नित by a peace treaty between एथेंस और Persia, the so-called Peace of callias.
Hooverville निकट Portland, Oregon
A `` Hooverville '' is the लोकप्रिय नाम for shanty towns built by बेघर people during the ग्रेट Depression.
They यहूद named after Herbert Hoover, who was President of the संयुक्त States during the onset of the Depression and widely blamed लिये it.
The पद was coined by Charles Michelson, publicity chief of the Democratic National Committee.
Matthew माइकल Hasselbeck ( born September 25, 1975 ) is an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल quarterback for the Indianapolis कोल्टस of the नेशनल Football League ( NFL ).
He थी drafted in the छठे round of the 1998 एनएफएल Draft by the ग्रीन Bay पैकर्स.
After a season on the अभ्यास स्क्वाड और two seasons backing up Brett Favre, he was traded to the सिएटल Seahawks in 2001.
hasselbeck gained the starting role in 2003, and led सिएटल to छह playoff दिखावे and a Super कटोरी appearance ; he was selected to three Pro Bowls and an all-pro selection.
Following टेन सीज़न with the Seahawks, Hasselbeck joined the टेनेसी टाइटन्स in 2011.
Hasselbeck then हस्ताक्षरित a contract साथ the Indianapolis Colts in 2013 कम than 24 hours बाद होने released by the टेनेसी Titans.
ICT is inevitably related to the कंप्यूटर network.
सूचना and Communications Technology or ( ICT ), is often used as an विस्तारित पर्याय लिये सूचना प्रौद्योगिकी ( it ), लकिन is a more specific term कि stresses the role of unified communications और the संयोजन of telecommunications ( telephone lines and wireless signals ), कंप्यूटर as खूब as necessary enterprise तन्त्र, middleware, storage, and audio-visual प्रणालियों, which enable users to अभिगम, store, संचारण, और हेरफेर information.
the phrase ICT had महरूम प्रयुक्त by अकादमिक शोधकर्ताओं since the 1980s, लकिन it became लोकप्रिय बाद it was प्रयुक्त in a रपट to the UK सरकारी by डेनिस stevenson in 1997 और in the संशोधित नेशनल Curriculum लिये England, वेल्स और Northern Ireland in 2000.
The term ICT is now also प्रयुक्त to refer to the अभिसरण of audio-visual and टेलीफोन संजाल with computer networks through a single cabling or कड़ी प्रणाली.
There are large आर्थिक incentives ( विशाल cost savings due to विलोपन of the टेलीफोन network ) to merge the audio-visual, building management and telephone network with the computer संजाल system using a सिंगल unified system of cabling, signal वितरण and management.
The term infocommunications is used in कुछ cases as a shorter form of information and संचार ( s ) technology.
In फैक्ट Infocommunications is the expansion of दूरसंचार साथ सूचना processing और content handling functions on a common डिजिटल technology आधार.
लिये a comparison of these और अन्य शर्तें, देखिए.
For आईसीटी Development Index around the संसार, देखिए.
This is a list of characters from जार्ज Lopez.
a schematic प्रस्तुतीकरण of the plum pudding मॉडल of the atom ; in Thomson 's गणितीय model the `` corpuscles '' ( or आधुनिक electrons ) यहूद arranged non-randomly, in rotating rings
The वर्तमान model of the sub-atomic structure involves a dense nucleus surrounded by a probabilistic `` बादल '' of electrons
the plum pudding model of the अणु by J. J. Thomson, जो discovered the electron in 1897, was प्रस्तावित in 1904 before the डिस्कवरी of the परमाणु केंद्रक in order to add the electron to the परमाणु model.
In इस मॉडल, the atom is रचित of electrons ( जिससे Thomson still पुकारा `` corpuscles '', though G. J. Stoney had प्रस्तावित that atoms of electricity be called electrons in 1894 ) घिरी by a soup of धनात्मक charge to balance the electrons ' ऋणात्मक आरोप, like negatively चार्ज `` plums `` surrounded by positively charged `` खीर ``.
The electrons ( as we जान उन्हें today ) यहूद विचार to be positioned throughout the अणु, but साथ many structures possible for positioning multiple electrons, particularly rotating बजती of electrons ( see below ).
बजाय of a soup, the atom was भी sometimes said to have had a `` cloud '' of positive चार्ज.
With this model, Thomson abandoned उसके earlier `` nebular atom '' परिकल्पना in which the atom थी composed of immaterial vortices.
अभी, at least part of the अणु was to be composed of Thomson 's particulate ऋणात्मक corpuscles, although the बाकी of the positively charged भाग of the अणु remained somewhat nebulous and ill-defined.
the 1904 Thomson model थी disproved by the 1909 सुनहरा foil प्रयोग of Hans Geiger and अर्नेस्ट Marsden.
This थी interpreted by Ernest Rutherford in 1911
to imply a बहुत small nucleus of the atom containing a very high positive चार्ज ( in the case of सुनहरा, enough to संतुलन about 100 electrons ), thus leading to the Rutherford मॉडल of the atom.
Although gold has an परमाणु number of 79, तत्काल बाद Rutherford 's paper appeared in 1911 Antonius Van den broek made the intuitive suggestion कि atomic number is nuclear charge.
The matter required experiment to decide.
Henry Moseley 's work दिखाया experimentally in 1913 ( see moseley 's law ) कि the effective nuclear चार्ज was very close to the atomic number ( moseley found तभी एक unit difference ), and Moseley referenced तभी the papers of वैन den broek और रदरफोर्ड.
This कार्य culminated in the solar-system-like ( but quantum-limited ) bohr model of the atom in the same year, in जिससे a nucleus containing an atomic number of धनात्मक charge is घिरी by an equal number of electrons in orbital शेल.
Bohr था also inspired Moseley 's work.
thomson 's मॉडल was compared ( हालांकि नहीं by thomson ) to a British dessert पुकारा plum खीर, hence the name.
Thomson 's पेपर was published in the March 1904 edition of the Philosophical Magazine, the leading अंग्रेजों science जर्नल of the दिन.
In thomson 's दृश्य :... the अणु of the elements consist of a number of negatively electrified corpuscles enclosed in a गोला of uniform positive electrification,...
In this model, the electrons were free to rotate within the blob or बादल of धनात्मक substance.
These orbits were stabilized in the मॉडल by the fact कि जब an electron moved दूर from the center of the positive cloud, it felt a larger net positive inward फ़ोर्स, क्युकी वहीँ was more material of opposite charge, अंदर its orbit ( see गाउस 's विधि ).
in Thomson 's model, electrons were फ़्री to rotate in बजती जिससे यहूद further stabilized by interactions between the electrons, and spectra यहूद to be accounted for by energy differences of अलग ring orbits.
Thomson attempted to make उसके model account for कुछ of the प्रमुख spectral लाइनों known for कुछ elements, but थी नहीं notably successful at इस.
Still, thomson 's मॉडल ( साथ साथ a समान saturnian रिंग model for atomic electrons, भी put forward in 1904 by Nagaoka बाद James Clerk मैक्सवेल 's model of शनि 's बजती ), यहूद पहले harbingers of the बाद और more successful solar-system-like bohr मॉडल of the atom.
Typical strip of bacon.
Bacon is a cured meat prepared इससे a pig.
it is first cured using विशाल quantities of नमक, either in a brine or in a dry पैकिंग ; the result is fresh bacon ( भी ज्ञात as green bacon ).
Fresh bacon may then be further सूखी for weeks or months in cold air, or it may be boiled or smoked.
Fresh and dried bacon is typically पकाया पहले eating.
Boiled bacon is तैयार to eat, as is कुछ smoked बेकन, but may be पकाया further before eating.
Bacon is prepared इससे अनेक different कटौती of मांस.
It is usually बना from side and back cuts of पोर्क, मगर in the संयुक्त States, जहाँ it is almost always prepared from pork पेट ( typically referred to as `` streaky '', `` fatty '', or `` American स्टाइल '' outside of the us और कनाडा ).
The side काटें has more मांस and कम fat than the belly.
Bacon may be prepared इससे either of two distinct back cuts : fatback, which is almost pure मोटे, और pork loin, जिससे is बहुत lean.
bacon-cured pork loin is known as वापस bacon.
uncooked पोर्क belly बेकन strips.
बेकन may be eaten स्मोक्ड, boiled, fried, baked, or grilled, or used as a नाबालिग ingredient to flavor बर्तन.
बेकन is also प्रयुक्त for barding and larding roasts, especially game, e.g. venison, pheasant.
the word is निकला इससे the Old High जर्मनी bacho, meaning `` buttock '', `` ham '' or `` side of bacon '', और cognate with the बूढ़ा French bacon.
in continental Europe, इस भाग of the pig is usually not smoked like बेकन is in the United States ; it is प्रयुक्त primarily in घन ( lardons ) as a cooking ingredient, valued both as a source of fat और लिये इसके flavor.
in इटली, this is called pancetta and is usually cooked in छोटी घन or served uncooked और thinly sliced as भाग of an antipasto.
मांस from other animals, such as बीफ, lamb, chicken, बकरी, or turkey, may भी be cut, cured, or वरना prepared to resemble bacon, और may even be referred to as `` बेकन ''.
Such उपयोग is common in areas with significant Jewish and Muslim populations.
The यूएसडीए defines बेकन as `` the cured belly of a swine carcass '' ; other cuts and विशेषताएँ must be separately योग्य ( e.g., `` स्मोक्ड pork loin बेकन '' ).
For safety, bacon जरूर be treated to prevent trichinosis, caused by Trichinella, a parasitic roundworm which can be destroyed by heating, freezing, drying, or धूम्रपान.
Bacon is distinguished from नमक pork और हैम by मतभेद in the brine ( or शुष्क packing ).
Bacon brine रै added curing ingredients, सबसे notably sodium nitrite, और occasionally सोडियम नाइट्रेट or potassium nitrate ( साल्टपीटर ) ; sodium ascorbate or erythorbate are added to accelerate curing और stabilize रंग.
Flavorings ऐसे as भूरा sugar or maple हैं used for some products.
If used, sodium polyphosphates are added to improve sliceability and reduce spattering when the bacon is pan fried.
आज, a brine लिये ham, but not bacon, includes a large राशि of sugar.
historically, `` ham '' and `` bacon '' referred to different cuts of मांस that were brined or packed identically, often together in the वही बैरल.
The Employee Retirement आय Security अधिनियम of 1974 ( ERISA ) (, संहिताबद्ध in part at ) is a संघीय law जिससे establishes minimum मानकों for pension plans in निजी industry and provides for extensive नियम on the federal income कर effects of transactions संबद्ध साथ employee लाभ plans.
erisa was enacted to protect the interests of employee benefit plan participants and their beneficiaries by:
Requiring the disclosure of financial and other information concerning the योजना to beneficiaries ;
Establishing मानकों of conduct लिये plan fiduciaries ;
Providing for appropriate remedies and access to the federal न्यायालयों.
erisa is sometimes प्रयुक्त to refer to the full body of laws regulating employee benefit योजनाएँ, जिससे are found मुख्यतः in the Internal आय कोड and erisa itself.
Responsibility for the interpretation and enforcement of ERISA is divided among the Department of मजदूर, the Department of the राजकोष ( particularly the आतंरिक Revenue Service ), और the Pension लाभ guaranty Corporation.
illegal immigration to the United राज्य is the act of विदेशी nationals प्रवेश the संयुक्त States, without सरकारी permission and in violation of United राज्य राष्ट्रीयता विधि, or रहकर परे the termination date of a वीज़ा, also in violation of the विधि.
a warning sign at the international boundary between the संयुक्त राज्य and Canada in Point रॉबर्ट्स, Washington.
a much different approach at the U.S.-Mexico किनारा निकट el पासो, टेक्सास
The undocumented immigrant population of the संयुक्त States in 2008 was estimated by the बीच for Immigration अध्ययन to be परिचय 11 लाख people, bas from 12.5 million people in 2007.
Other estimates दायरा from 7 to 20 लाख.
according to a 2005 pew हिस्पैनिक बीच रपट, 56 % of undocumented आप्रवासियों यहूद इससे Mexico ; 22 % were from other Latin अमरीकी देशों ; 13 % were इससे एशिया ; 6 % यहूद from Europe और Canada ; and 3 % यहूद from अफ़्रीकी and the बाकी of the संसार.
Alvin Independent School District is a स्कूल district based in एल्विन, Texas ( यूएसए ).
एल्विन ISD is a विशाल suburban स्कूल district south of ह्यूस्टन in the communities of एल्विन, Manvel, Pearland, Hillcrest, Rosharon, Iowa Colony, लिवरपूल, and Amsterdam.
AISD serves Pearland city 's rapidly growing western portion of the नगर including the नई large master-planned communities of छाया क्रीक Ranch, दक्षिण Fork, और दक्षिणी trails.
Alvin ISD covers of land.
In इंसान anatomy, the ulnar nerve is a तंत्रिका जिससे रनों near the ulna bone.
The ulnar collateral स्नायु of elbow संयुक्त is in संबंध with the ulnar nerve.
The nerve is the largest unprotected तंत्रिका in the human देह ( meaning unprotected by मांसपेशी or अस्थि ), so injury is आम.
इस nerve is directly connected to the little finger, and the सटा half of the रिंग finger, supplying the palmar side of these fingers, including दोनो front and वापस of the tips, perhaps as far back as the fingernail beds.
One method of injuring the तंत्रिका is to strike the medial epicondyle of the humerus from posteriorly, or inferiorly with the कोहनी flexed.
The ulnar nerve is trapped between the bone और the overlying skin at इस point.
इस is commonly referred to as bumping एक 's `` funny bone ''.
This name is विचार to be a pun, based on the ध्वनि resemblance between the name of the bone of the अपर arm, the `` humerus `` और the word `` humorous ``.
Alternatively, according to the ऑक्सफोर्ड अंग्रेज़ी Dictionary it may refer to `` the peculiar sensation experienced when it is struck ''.
Hogwarts स्कूल of चुड़ैल and wizardry, shortened Hogwarts, is a fictional British school of magic for students aged eleven to eighteen, and is the primary setting लिये the पहला six books in J.K. रोलिंग 's Harry Potter श्रेणी.
रोलिंग has suggested that वो may have inadvertently लिया the name from the hogwort संयंत्र ( croton capitatus ), which वो had seen at Kew Gardens some समय पहले writing the श्रेणी, although the names `` The हॉग्वार्ट्स '' और `` hoggwart '' appear in the 1954 निगेल molesworth book How To be topp by Geoffrey Willans.
हॉग्वार्ट्स school was voted as the 36th बेहतरीन Scottish शैक्षणिक स्थापना in a 2008 online ranking, outranking Edinburgh 's Loretto स्कूल.
according to a director of the Independent Schools संजाल Rankings, it was added to the schools listing `` for fun '' and was तब voted on.
The U.S. subprime mortgage crisis was a नियत of कार्यक्रम and शर्तें कि led to a financial संकट and subsequent recession कि began in 2008.
it was characterized by a rise in subprime बंधक delinquencies और foreclosures, and the resulting मनाही of प्रतिभूति backed by said mortgages.
Several major financial institutions collapsed in सितंबर 2008, साथ significant disruption in the flow of credit to businesses और consumers and the onset of a कठोर वैश्विक recession.
There were अनेक कल्याणकारी of the संकट, साथ टीकाकारों assigning different levels of दोष to वित्तीय institutions, regulators, credit एजेंसियों, government housing policies, और consumers, among अन्य.
A proximate कारण was the rise in subprime lending.
the प्रतिशत of lower-quality subprime mortgages originated दौरान a given साल rose इससे the historical 8 % or निम्नतर range to approximately 20 % इससे 2004 to 2006, with much higher ratios in some parts of the u.s.
A high percentage of these subprime mortgages, over 90 % in 2006 for उदाहरण, यहूद adjustable-rate mortgages.
ये two परिवर्तन were भाग of a broader ट्रेंड of lowered lending standards और higher-risk बंधक उत्पाद.
Further, U.S. households had become increasingly ऋणी, with the ratio of debt to disposable निजी income rising from 77 % in 1990 to 127 % at the समाप्त of 2007, much of इस बढ़ाएँ mortgage-related.
When U.S. home prices अस्वीकृत steeply बाद peaking in mid-2006, borrowers ' क्षमता to पुनर्वित्त their loans became more मुश्किल.
As adjustable-rate mortgages began to reset at higher interest दरों ( causing higher monthly payments ), mortgage delinquencies soared.
Securities backed with mortgages, सहित subprime mortgages, widely आयोजित by वित्तीय firms globally, lost सबसे of their मान.
Global investors भी drastically घटाया purchases of mortgage-backed debt and अन्य प्रतिभूति as part of a decline in the capacity and willingness of the private financial प्रणाली to support lending.
चिंताएं about the soundness of u.S. क्रेडिट and वित्तीय markets led to tightening credit around the संसार and slowing आर्थिक growth in the u.S. and Europe.
The संकट था severe, long-lasting consequences for the u.S. और European economies.
The U.S. entered a गहन मंदी, साथ nearly 9 लाख कार्य खोया दौरान 2008 and 2009, roughly 6 % of the workforce.
U.S. आवास prices गिरी nearly 30 % on average और the U.S. भण्डार market fell approximately 50 % by early 2009.
As of early 2013, the u.S. भण्डार market had बरामद to इसके pre-crisis शिखर लकिन housing कीमतें remained near उनके कम point and बेरोजगारी remained elevated.
Economic विकास remained नीचे pre-crisis levels.
यूरोपीय भी continued to संघर्ष with इसके own economic crisis.
कार्ल जंग in 1910.
Myers और Briggs extrapolated their MBTI theory from जंग 's कृतियाँ in his book मनोवैज्ञानिक Types.
The Myers-Briggs प्रकार Indicator ( MBTI ) मूल्यांकन is a psychometric questionnaire designed to measure psychological preferences in how लोगों perceive the संसार and make decisions.
These preferences were extrapolated from the typological theories प्रस्तावित by Carl Gustav Jung and first published in उसके 1921 किताब मनोवैज्ञानिक Types ( अंग्रेज़ी edition, 1923 ).
जंग theorized कि there are चार प्रिंसिपल psychological functions by जिससे we अनुभव the world : सनसनी, intuition, feeling, and thinking.
One of these चार functions is dominant सबसे of the time.
the original developers of the व्यक्तित्व inventory यहूद Katharine Cook Briggs और her daughter, Isabel briggs Myers ; ये two, having पढ़ाई extensively the work of जंग, turned their interest of इंसान behavior into a devotion of turning the theory of मनोवैज्ञानिक types to व्यावहारिक उपयोग.
They began creating the indicator दौरान संसार युद्ध II, believing that a knowledge of personality वरीयताओं would help women जो यहूद entering the industrial workforce for the first time to पहचानो the sort of war-time jobs that would be `` most comfortable और effective ''.
The initial questionnaire grew into the myers-briggs Type Indicator, which was first published in 1962.
The mbti focuses on सामान्य populations और emphasizes the value of naturally occurring differences.
Robert Kaplan and Dennis Saccuzzo believe `` the underlying assumption of the mbti is that we all have विशिष्ट preferences in the रास्ता we construe our experiences, and these preferences underlie our रूचि, needs, values, and प्रेरणा '' ( p. 499 ).
`` Judas '' is a सोंग by American recording artist Lady गागा, इससे उसके second studio एल्बम Born This रास्ता ( 2011 ).
it was released by interscope Records on April 15, 2011, चार days ahead of इसके अनुसूचित रिलीज.
Written and उत्पादित by Lady गागा and RedOne, `` Judas '' is a dance and electro हाउस सोंग परिचय a स्त्री in प्रेम with a man who गद्दारी उसके.
It embodies the incidents that have haunted Gaga in the पास्ट, and its कोर meaning refers to the negative भाग of her जीवन that वो ca n't escape.
गागा रै further समझाया that the सोंग was also about honoring एक 's inner darkness in order to bring oneself into the लाइट.
The artwork for the सिंगल was designed by Gaga in Microsoft Word.
In spite of a polarizing impact on several धार्मिक groups, the सोंग was generally खूब received by critics, who likened the song to `` Bad Romance `` with some noting it चाहिए have been the एल्बम 's lead single.
The सोंग has a similar sound to गागा 's पिछला redone-produced ट्रैक्स, including `` Poker फेस ``, `` LoveGame ``, `` Bad Romance '', and `` alejandro ``.
It contains three पृथक hooks और a हाउस -influenced ब्रेक down.
गागा explained कि the lines बोला दौरान the breakdown talk परिचय उसके as परे redemption, regarding the परंपरागत दृश्य of what a स्त्री should be.
`` Judas '' initially had a strong बिक्री खोलने, but was कम successful commercially in comparison to Gaga 's previous singles.
the सोंग reached the शीर्ष ten of the charts in सबसे प्रमुख music बाज़ार, और also पहुँचे the top of the charts in दक्षिण कोरियाई.
a म्यूज़िक video for the song was फिल्माया in अप्रैल 2011, co-directed by Gaga and Laurieann गिब्सन and co-starring Norman Reedus.
it has a biblical कथानक जहाँ Reedus निभाई Judas इस्कैरियट और गागा निभाई Mary magdalene.
The video portrays them as आधुनिक दिन missionaries going to Jerusalem.
It शामिल the biblical स्टोरी of यहूदा betraying यीशु, and ended साथ Gaga as magdalene getting stoned to मौत.
Before its रिलीज, the Catholic लीग condemned गागा for the alleged use of धार्मिक imagery और her role in the वीडियो.
However, आलोचकों generally praised the video, नहीं ढूंढना any अप्रिय content.
The वीडियो was nominated लिये दो पुरस्कार at the 2011 एमटीवी वीडियो Music Awards.
गागा has performed `` Judas '' on a क्रमांक of टेलीविज़न shows, including the Graham नॉर्टन Show, Saturday Night सजीव, शुभ Morning americas `` Summer Concert श्रेणी '', the French X फ़ैक्टर as well as on The Ellen DeGeneres Show.
Marvin Gaye ( April 2, 1939april 1, 1984 ), born Marvin pentz gay, Jr., was an अमरीकी singer-songwriter and musician.
Gaye helped to shape the ध्वनि of Motown रिकॉर्ड in the 1960s with a स्ट्रिंग of hits सहित `` How Sweet It Is ( To Be loved By तुम ) `` और `` i सुना it Through the Grapevine `` and duet recordings with मरियम Wells and tammi terrell, later कमाई the titles `` प्रिंस of motown '' and `` प्रिंस of आत्मा ''.
दौरान the 1970s, Gaye recorded the concept albums What 's Going On और Let 's मिलेंगी It On and became among the first कलाकारों in Motown to ब्रेक away इससे the reins of इसके production company.
gaye 's later recordings influenced अनेक r & b subgenres such as शांत storm and neo-soul.
following a काल in Europe under a कर निर्वासन in the early 1980s, Gaye released the 1982 ग्रैमी award-winning hit `` Sexual Healing `` and the मध्यरात्रि प्रेम album.
Since उसके death in 1984, gaye रै been posthumously honored by many institutions, including the ग्रैमी आजीवन Achievement Award and the Rock and फेंकें Hall of Fame.
The अकादमी Award लिये Best चित्र is एक of the Academy Awards of Merit presented annually by the अकादमी of Motion चित्र कला and Sciences ( AMPAS ) to producers working in the गति चित्र उद्योग और is the only category in जिससे प्रत्येक सदस्य is योग्य to nominate for.
बेहतरीन Picture is माना the most important of the Academy Awards, as it represents all the directing, acting, म्यूज़िक composing, लिखने, संपादन और other प्रयत्न put forth into a film.
Consequently, बेहतरीन चित्र is the final award and the conclusion of the annual अकादमी Awards रस्म.
the Grand staircase columns at the dolby Theatre in Los एंजिल्स, where the Academy पुरस्कार ceremonies have महरूम held चूंकि 2002, शोकेस every फिल्मी that रै won the Best Picture शीर्षक since the award 's inception 85 years पहले.
Heavy बरसात is an इंटरैक्टिव drama action-adventure video खेल निर्मित by फ्रेंच developer Quantic Dream exclusively for the प्लेस्टेशन 3.
the game is written और निर्देशित by quantic Dream 's founder और CEO दाउद पिंजरा.
भारी Rains story is a dramatic थ्रिलर modelled after फिल्मी noir, featuring चार protagonists involved साथ the रहस्य of the origami Killer, a serial कातिल who उपयोग विस्तारित periods of rainfall to drown his पीड़ितों.
Ethan Mars is trying to save his son from being the next victim, जबकि investigative journalist Madison Paige, FBI profiler Norman jayden, और निजी जासूस स्कॉट शेल्बी हैं each trying to track bas clues to the Origami Killer 's पहचान.
the खिलाड़ी interacts with the खेल by performing actions highlighted on screen सम्बन्धित to motions on the नियंत्रक, and in कुछ cases, performing a श्रेणी of जल्दी time events during fast-paced action sequences.
The खिलाड़ी 's decisions और actions during the game will affect the narrative.
the प्रमुख वर्ण can be killed, and निश्चित actions may lead to different scenes और endings.
A playable demo थी released on 11 February 2010.
The demo थी released prior to इस तिथि for people जो took भाग in a Four Day चुनौती on 5 फ़रवरी 2010.
a पैच to allow use of the प्लेस्टेशन Move नियंत्रक to खेल the game थी released in September 2010.
भारी बरसात was critically acclaimed and has sold over दो लाख copies.
It won 2010 's Game of the Year इससे CNN और Gaming Union, और Best PS3 खेल of 2010 by GameSpy और ign.
a परिवर्धित version of the game थी released titled Heavy Rain Edition modifiée exclusively in France, aimed towards a younger audience.
in 2010, the game was included in the किताब 1001 Video Games You Must Play Before तुम die.
कुल superannuation industry देनदारी : members funds और reserves ( A $ लाखो ) चूंकि 1988.
सालाना total superannuation उद्योग asset विकास 1996-2005.
Superannuation in Australia refers to the इंतजाम जिससे लोगों make in Australia to have निधि available लिये them in रिटायरमेंट.
in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, superannuation arrangements हैं government-supported और encouraged, और minimum provisions are compulsory लिये कर्मचारी.
For उदाहरण, नियोक्ता are required to अदा a proportion of an employee 's salaries and wages ( फिलहाल 9 % ) into a superannuation fund, but लोगों are encouraged to put aside additional निधि into superannuation.
The न्यूनतम obligation required by employers is नियत to बढ़ाएँ to 12 % धीरे stepping annually from 2013 to 2020.
An individual can withdraw निधि आउट of a superannuation fund when the person meets one of the conditions of release contained in Schedule 1 of the Superannuation उद्योग ( पर्यवेक्षण ) regulations 1994.
This is a सूची of the characters इससे the अमरीकी comedy-drama television श्रेणी The Game.
चुनावी College map प्रर्दशित the results of the 2012 U.S. presidential election.
President बराक ओबामा ( D - il ) जीती the popular vote in 26 states and the ज़िला of Columbia ( denoted in blue ) to कैप्चर 332 electoral मत.
Former Governor mitt romney ( r - ma ) won the लोकप्रिय vote in 24 राज्य ( denoted in रेड ) to कैप्चर 206 electoral votes.
Cartogram representation of the Electoral College vote for the 2012 चुनाव, with प्रत्येक वर्गाकार representing एक electoral vote.
The संयुक्त States चुनावी कॉलेज is the संस्था कि officially elects the President और Vice President of the United States प्रत्येक four सालो.
The अध्यक्ष और वाइस President are not elected directly by the मतदाता.
Instead, they हैं निर्वाचित by `` electors '' जो are chosen by popular vote on a state-by-state basis.
निर्वाचक हैं apportioned to each राज्य and the District of Columbia, लकिन नहीं to territorial possessions of the United States, such as Puerto रीको and गुआम.
the क्रमांक of electors in प्रत्येक राज्य is equal to the क्रमांक of members of Congress to which the state is entitled.
the Twenty-third Amendment has always resulted in the ज़िला of कोलंबिया having three electors.
वहीँ are 538 electors, based on there being 435 प्रतिनिधि और 100 senators, plus the three electors इससे the ज़िला of कोलंबिया.
Electors are pledged to particular presidential and vice presidential उम्मीदवार, though unpledged electors are possible.
In all states, except Maine and Nebraska, electors are निर्वाचित on a `` winner-take-all '' basis.
कि is, सब electors pledged to the अध्यक्षीय candidate who wins the most votes in a state become electors for that state.
maine and Nebraska use the `` congressional ज़िला विधि '', selecting एक elector within each congressional ज़िला by लोकप्रिय vote और selecting the बाकी two electors by a statewide लोकप्रिय vote.
हालांकि no elector is जरूरी by federal law to honor a pledge, there have तभी been बहुत few occasions जब an elector voted contrary to a प्रतिज्ञा.
the बारहवीं amendment specifies कैसा a President और Vice अध्यक्ष are elected and requires each elector to डाल एक vote for President and another vote for Vice President.
Critics argue that the चुनावी कॉलेज is inherently undemocratic और gives swing states अनुपातहीन influence in electing the अध्यक्ष and वाइस President.
The Electoral College gives a numeric advantage in the election of the president to the smaller राज्य, as the न्यूनतम number of electors for the छोटी राज्य is three compared to एक लिये the चुनाव of representatives.
On the other hand, the winner-take-all विधि of voting favors the larger states.
A क्रमांक of constitutional amendments have been proposed seeking to alter the Electoral कॉलेज or replace it साथ a direct लोकप्रिय vote.
बराक Hussein Obama II ( ; born August 4, 1961 ) is the 44th and वर्तमान President of the United States, the पहला अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी to hold the office.
Born in Honolulu, Hawaii, Obama is a graduate of Columbia University and Harvard विधि स्कूल, where he थी president of the हार्वर्ड Law पुनर्विलोकन.
he was a community organizer in Chicago before कमाई his law degree.
He worked as a civil rights attorney in Chicago and taught constitutional law at the University of Chicago विधि स्कूल from 1992 to 2004.
he परोसा three शर्तें representing the 13th ज़िला in the इलिनोइस सीनेट इससे 1997 to 2004, कार्यशील unsuccessfully for the United States House of प्रतिनिधि in 2000.
In 2004, Obama प्राप्त नेशनल ध्यान during उसके अभियान to represent Illinois in the United राज्य Senate with his victory in the March Democratic Party primary, his keynote पता at the लोकतांत्रिक National Convention in July, और his चुनाव to the सीनेट in नवम्बर.
he began उसके अध्यक्षीय अभियान in 2007, और in 2008, बाद a close primary campaign against Hillary rodham Clinton, he won sufficient delegates in the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी primaries to प्राप्त the presidential nomination.
He तब defeated Republican nominee जॉन मैक्केन in the general election, और थी inaugurated as अध्यक्ष on January 20, 2009.
Nine months बाद, ओबामा was नामित the 2009 नोबेल सलाम पुरस्कार laureate.
he was re-elected अध्यक्ष in November 2012, defeating रिपब्लिकन nominee Mitt romney, and was sworn in लिये a second term on January 20, 2013.
Early in his first term in office, Obama signed into विधि economic stimulus legislation in response to the ग्रेट मंदी in the रूप of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 और the कर राहत, बेरोजगारी Insurance reauthorization, और जॉब सृष्टि अधिनियम of 2010.
Other major domestic initiatives in his presidency include the Patient सुरक्षा and सस्ती परवाह अधिनियम, often referred to as `` Obamacare '' ; the dodd–frank वॉल गली Reform and Consumer Protection Act ; the do n't पूछो, do n't बताना Repeal Act of 2010 ; the Budget Control Act of 2011 ; और the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012.
In May 2012, he became the first sitting U.S. अध्यक्ष to सरेआम support same-sex marriage and in 2013 उसके administration दायर briefs which urged the Supreme Court to rule in एहसान of same-sex युगल in two high-profile मामले.
In foreign policy, ओबामा ended u.S. military involvement in the Iraq War, increased troop स्तर in Afghanistan, हस्ताक्षरित the नई प्रारंभ arms कंट्रोल treaty साथ रूस, ordered U.S. सैन्य भागीदारी in लीबिया, और ordered the सैन्य आपरेशन कि resulted in the मौत of ओसामा bin Laden.
the होंडा CBR1100XX Super blackbird थी a Honda motorcycle made इससे 1996 to 2007.
The bike was developed to चुनौती the Kawasaki Ninja zx-11 as the world 's fastest production motorcycle, and होंडा succeeded with a शीर्ष गति of.
दो years later the शीर्षक passed to the Suzuki hayabusa, which reached.
the blackbird is named after the लॉकहीड SR-71, भी a speed record holder.
Sample view of an electronic स्वास्थ्य record based on images
Sample view of an electronic स्वास्थ्य record
An इलेक्ट्रॉनिक health रिकार्ड ( ehr ) is an evolving अवधारणा defined as a व्यवस्थित collection of electronic स्वास्थ्य information about व्यक्तिगत patients or populations.
It is a record in डिजिटल format कि is theoretically सक्षम of being साझा आरपार अलग health care जमावट.
In कुछ मामले this sharing can occur by way of network-connected enterprise-wide information प्रणालियों and other सूचना networks or exchanges.
EHRs may include a range of आंकड़ा, सहित demographics, चिकित्सा history, दवा और allergies, immunization status, प्रयोगशाला test परिणाम, radiology images, vital signs, personal stats like age और वज़न, और billing information.
The मेरिनर up on the mast in a storm.
One of the wood-engraved illustrations by gustave doré.
The Rime of the Ancient मेरिनर ( originally the Rime of the ancyent marinere ) is the longest प्रमुख कविता by the English poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge, written in 1797–98 and published in 1798 in the first संस्करण of गीतात्मक ballads.
Modern editions उपयोग a बाद revised संस्करण मुद्रित in 1817 that featured a gloss.
Along साथ अन्य poems in Lyrical Ballads, it was a signal shift to modern poetry और the शुरूआत of British Romantic साहित्य.
A प्रॉक्सी auto-config ( pac ) संचिका defines कैसा web browsers and other user agents can automatically चुनें the appropriate proxy सर्वर ( अभिगम विधि ) for fetching a दिए URL.
A PAC file contains a जावास्क्रिप्ट फलन “FindProxyForURL ( url, मेजबान ) ”.
इस function returns a स्ट्रिंग साथ एक or more access विधि specifications.
These specifications कारण the उपयोक्ता agent to use a particular प्रॉक्सी सर्वर or to connect सीधे.
Multiple specifications provide a fall-back जब a प्रॉक्सी fails to respond.
The browser fetches this PAC file पहले requesting other यूआरएल.
The url of the PAC file is either configured manually or संकल्पित automatically by the वेब Proxy autodiscovery प्रोटोकॉल.
Zendaya कोलमैन ( born September 1, 1996 ), known mononymously as Zendaya, is an अमरीकी actress, singer और dancer.
वो stars on the डिज़्नी चैनल sitcom Shake It Up as Rocky ब्लू.
वो has starred in दो films and played one of the lead roles in the फिल्मी Frenemies as Halley ब्रैंडन.
She voiced Fern in the Pixie Hollow Games.
वो appeared in Good Luck Charlie as रॉकी Blue and in a Good Luck चार्ली और शेक it Up crossover शीर्षक चार्ली शेक it up.
She appeared on PrankStars as herself in the episode `` Walk the शरारत '' और on A.N.T. Farm as Sequoia Jones in the episode `` Creative सलाहकार. ''
zendaya is also a musician.
She signed a deal with हॉलीवुड रिकॉर्ड on अगस्त 8, 2012 और प्रारंभ recording गीतों for उसके debut album on अगस्त 12, 2012.
She released a सिंगल इससे an independent label called `` swag it आउट `` and another सिंगल with Bella thorne called `` Watch Me, '' which is featured on the ब्रेक it bas album.
On March 20, 2012, Zendaya and Bella Thorne released an एल्बम together called Shake It Up : Live 2 नृत्य, each have उनके own song on it, साथ with a mash-up of दोनो songs together as one.
On अगस्त 21, 2012, Zendaya and Bella Thorne released an EP पुकारा Shake It Up : Made In Japan.
Zendaya has a Christmas song called `` Shake सांता शेक, '' which is on the Disney Channel अवकाश Playlist cd, which was released on अक्तूबर 2, 2012.
On March 5, 2013 the third Shake it Up soundtrack थी released, entitled I < 3 नृत्य ; on it, zendaya रै two गीतों with Bella - `` Contagious Love '' and `` This Is my नृत्य Floor '' - as well as एक सोलो सोंग, `` Beat of my Drum. ''
This is a list of एयरपोर्ट in Pennsylvania ( a U.S. state ), grouped by प्रकार and sorted by location.
it contains सब public-use and military airports in the राज्य.
Some private-use and पूर्व airports may be शामिल where notable, such as airports कि were previously public-use, those साथ commercial enplanements recorded by the faa or एयरपोर्ट आबंटित an iata विमानक्षेत्र कोड.
iOS ( previously iPhone os ) is a mobile ऑपरेटिंग system विकसित and वितरित by Apple inc. originally released in 2007 लिये the iphone and iPod टच प्लेटफ़ॉर्म, it has been extended to support other ठहराना devices ऐसे as the iPad and Apple TV.
नापसंद Microsoft 's Windows Phone and Google 's Android, ठहराना करता नहीं license आईओएस for संस्थापना on non-Apple हार्डवेयर.
, Apple 's app Store contained more than 700,000 iOS applications, जिससे have collectively महरूम downloaded अधिक than 30 billion times.
It had a 21 % share of the smartphone मोबाईल operating system units shipped in the चौथी क्वार्टर of 2012, पीछे only Google 's एंड्रॉइड.
in जून 2012, it accounted for 65 % of mobile वेब आंकड़ा consumption ( including उपयोग on both the iPod टच और the ipad ).
at the half of 2012, वहीँ were 410 लाख devices activated.
according to the खास media event आयोजित by ठहराना on September 12, 2012, 400 million devices have महरूम बेची through June 2012.
the उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस of आईओएस is आधारित on the concept of direct manipulation, using multi-touch इशारों.
Interface control elements consist of sliders, switches, और buttons.
Interaction साथ the os includes इशारों ऐसे as swipe, tap, pinch, and reverse pinch, सब of which have विशिष्ट definitions भीतर the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of the आईओएस ऑपरेटिंग system and its multi-touch interface.
Internal accelerometers are used by some applications to respond to shaking the device ( one common परिणाम is the undo कमांड ) or rotating it in three dimensions ( one common result is switching इससे portrait to लैंडस्केप विधि ).
आईओएस is derived from OS X, साथ जिससे it shares the डार्विन न्यास.
आईओएस is ठहराना 's मोबाईल संस्करण of the os X ऑपरेटिंग system प्रयुक्त on Apple computers.
In iOS, there हैं चार abstraction layers : the कोर OS परत, the Core सेवाएं परत, the Media परत, and the Cocoa Touch परत.
the current संस्करण of the ऑपरेटिंग system ( iOS 6.1.3 ) dedicates 1-1.5 GB of the device 's फ्लैश memory for the system विभाजन, using roughly 800 mb of कि विभाजन ( varying by model ) लिये iOS itself.
आईओएस फिलहाल रनों on iphone, iPad, iPod टच and Apple TV.
The plymouth Superbird is famous लिये its अत्यधिक ऊँची rear wing.
1987 Audi Sport QuattroS1 with इसके large विंग्स at Pikes शिखर
A बिगाड़ने is an automotive aerodynamic यंत्र जिनकी intended design function is to 'spoil ' प्रतिकूल air गति आरपार a देह of a गाडी in motion, प्रायः described as turbulence or खीचें.
विघ्न on the सामने of a vehicle are often called air dams, क्युकी in addition to directing air flow they also reduce the amount of air flowing underneath the गाडी which generally reduces aerodynamic लिफ्ट and खीचें.
Spoilers हैं often fitted to race and high-performance खेल cars, although they have become common on passenger vehicles as खूब.
कुछ spoilers हैं added to cars primarily for styling purposes and have either little aerodynamic benefit or even मेक the वायुगतिकी worse.
Spoilers लिये cars are प्रायः incorrectly confused with, or the पद used interchangeably with, विंग्स.
Automotive wings are devices जिनकी intended डिज़ाइन is to generate downforce as air passes around them, नहीं बस disrupt मौजूदा airflow patterns.
Mario, who serves as Nintendo 's शुभंकर, is a fictional अक्षर created by खेल पंक्तियां Shigeru Miyamoto और voiced by Charles martinet.
इस is a सूची of video games where the अक्षर Mario plays a part, either as the समर्थक, antagonist, supporting अक्षर, as भाग of an ensemble डाल, as a कैमियो, or in a game within a game.
It does not शामिल सरल references to the character, such as the portraits of Mario found in the Legend of Zelda : a कड़ी to the Past.
the साल indicated is the साल the खेल was पहला released, most commonly in जापानी ; games were sometimes released सालो later in अन्य regions of the संसार.
The सूची शामिल पोर्ट, remakes and compilations.
It does n't शामिल कोई Virtual Console re-releases.
`` man of Constant विषाद '' ( also known as `` i Am A man of Constant Sorrow '' ) is a परंपरागत अमरीकी folk song first अंकित by लंड burnett, a partially blind fiddler इससे Kentucky.
The song was originally recorded by Burnett as `` Farewell Song '' printed in a Richard burnett songbook, circa 1913.
an जल्दी version थी recorded by emry आर्थर in 1928 ( vocalion vo 5208 ).
Public interest in the सोंग was renewed after the release of the 2000 फिल्मी O Brother, Where Art Thou ?
, as it plays a सेंट्रल role in the film 's plot.
The song was also included in the फिल्मी 's highly successful, multiple-platinum selling साउंडट्रैक.
Josephson junction सरणी चिप developed by the नेशनल ब्यूरो of मानकों as a मानक वोल्ट
The वोल्ट ( symbol : v ) is the SI derived unit लिये electric संभावित ( वोल्टेज ), इलेक्ट्रिक potential अंतर, and electromotive फ़ोर्स.
The volt is नामित in सम्मान of the Italian physicist alessandro Volta ( 1745–1827 ), जो invented the voltaic pile, possibly the first रासायनिक battery.
A प्लैक commemorating the location of the Sarajevo हत्या and steps of gavrilo princip ( image taken in 1987, पहले steps were removed in 1992 and plaque बदला इससे Cyrillic to Latin script )
A प्लैक commemorating the स्थान of the साराजेवो हत्या ( चित्र लिया in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914, Archduke Franz Ferdinand of ऑस्ट्रिया, heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian throne, and his बीवी, Sophie, Duchess of Hohenberg, were शॉट मुर्दे in Sarajevo, by Gavrilo Princip, एक of a समूह of छह Bosnian serb assassins coordinated by डेनियल Ilić.
the political objective of the assassination was to ब्रेक off austria-hungary 's south-slav प्रांतों so वे could be संयुक्त into a Greater सर्बिया or a Yugoslavia.
The assassins ' motives were consistent साथ the movement that बाद became known as Young Bosnia.
सर्बियाई सैन्य अधिकारियों stood behind the attack.
at the top of ये सर्बियाई सैन्य conspirators was Chief of सर्बियाई Military Intelligence Dragutin Dimitrijević, उसके righthand man Major Vojislav Tankosić, and Masterspy rade Malobabić.
Major Tankosić हथियारबंद the assassins साथ बम and pistols और trained them.
The assassins were given access to the वही clandestine टनल of safe-houses and agents that Rade malobabić used लिये the infiltration of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary.
The assassins, the कुंजी सदस्यों of the clandestine tunnel, और the key Serbian military षड्यंत्रकारियों who यहूद स्टिल alive यहूद arrested, आजमाया, convicted and punished.
Those who यहूद गिरफ्तार in बोस्निया यहूद आजमाया in Sarajevo in अक्तूबर 1914.
The other षड्यंत्रकारियों were गिरफ्तार और tried before a Serbian kangaroo court on the French-controlled Salonika Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated false आरोप ; सर्बिया चलाया three of the top military conspirators.
Much of कया is known about the assassinations comes from ये two trials and related records.
कार्यभार of responsibility for the bombing and murders of 28 जून is highly विवादास्पद because the attack led to the outbreak of World युद्ध I one month बाद.
मिशन San Juan capistrano was a Spanish मिशन in Southern California, located in present-day San जुआन capistrano.
It was founded on सब संतो ' दिन नवम्बर 1, 1776, by Spanish Catholics of the Franciscan Order.
Named for Giovanni da Capistrano, a 15th century theologian and `` warrior पुजारी '' जो resided in the Abruzzo region of Italy, सैन Juan Capistrano has the distinction of being घर to the oldest भवन in California still in उपयोग, a chapel निर्मित in 1782.
Known alternately as `` Serra 's चैपल '' and `` Father सेरा 's गिरिजाघर, '' it is the only extant structure where it has been documented that the padre junipero सेरा मनाये mass.
एक of the बेहतरीन ज्ञात of the alta कैलिफ़ोर्निया missions ( and one of the few missions to have actually been संस्थापित twice—others होने मिशन सैन Gabriel Arcángel and Mission la Purísima Concepción ).
The site was originally consecrated on अक्तूबर 30, 1775, by Father fermín Lasuén, लकिन was जल्दी abandoned due to अशांति among the स्वदेशी population in सैन Diego.
The success of the settlement is evident in its ऐतिहासिक रिकॉर्ड.
Prior to the आगमन of the missionaries, some 550 natives यहूद बिखरे throughout the लोकल क्षेत्रफल.
By 1790, the number of परिवर्तित ईसाइयों had grown to 700, and बस छह years later nearly 1,000 `` neophytes `` ( हाल converts ) lived in or around the Mission compound.
1,649 baptisms were conducted that साल alone, out of the total 4,639 souls converted between 1776 and 1847.
More than 2,000 former inhabitants ( mostly Juaneño इंडियंस ) are दफ्न in unmarked graves in the Mission 's cemetery ( campo santo ).
the remains of पिता ( later Monsignor ) st. जॉन O'Sullivan, who recognized the property 's ऐतिहासिक value और working tirelessly to conserve and rebuild इसके structures, हैं buried at the entrance to the कब्रिस्तान on the वेस्ट पक्ष of the प्रॉपर्टी, and a statue उठाया in उसके honor stands at the head of the crypt.
The surviving chapel also serves as the final resting place of three padres जो passed on जबकि सेवारत at the Mission : fathers जोस Barona, Vicente fustér, और Vicente Pascual Oliva are all entombed beneath the sanctuary floor.
The Criolla or `` Mission grape, '' was पहला planted at San Juan Capistrano in 1779 ; in 1783, the पहला वाइन produced in Alta California उभरा from the Mission 's winery.
the Mission entered a long period of gradual decline बाद secularization in 1833.
Numerous प्रयत्न were made over the years to restore the Mission to its former glory, लकिन none मिले with great success जबतक the arrival of पिता O'Sullivan in 1910.
Restoration efforts continue, और `` Serra 's चैपल '' is स्टिल used for धार्मिक सेवाएं.
About half-a-million visitors, सहित 80,000 school children, come to the Mission each साल.
And while the तबाह of `` The Great स्टोन गिरिजाघर '' ( which थी all but leveled by an 1812 भूकंप ) are a renowned architectural अचरज, the मिशन is perhaps best ज्ञात for the annual `` Return of the दात '' which is traditionally observed प्रत्येक March 19 ( Saint Joseph 's दिन ).
मिशन San Juan capistrano has परोसा as a पसंदीदा विषय for अनेक notable कलाकारों, and रै महरूम immortalized in साहित्य और on film numerous times, शायद अधिक than कोई other मिशन.
In 1984, a आधुनिक church जटिल थी constructed just उत्तर और वेस्ट of the Mission compound and is अभी known as Mission Basilica San Juan capistrano.
Today, the mission compound serves as a museum, with the सेरा Chapel भीतर the compound serving as a चैपल for the mission parish.
Better Off मुर्दे is a 1985 American teen रोमांटिक comedy film starring John Cusack and written और directed by जंगली Steve हॉलैंड.
It tells the स्टोरी of high स्कूल student लेन myer जो is suicidal after उसके girlfriend breaks up साथ उसे.
Mercedes-Benz Superdome ( originally Louisiana superdome and commonly the Superdome ) is a खेल and exhibition स्टेडियम, located in the Central कारोबार District of New Orleans, Louisiana, यूएसए.
योजनाएँ were drawn up in 1967, by the New Orleans modernist architectural firm of Curtis and Davis.
Its steel frame covers a expanse.
Its गुम्बद is made of a Lamella multi-ringed फ़्रेम and has a diameter of, making it the largest fixed domed ढांचा in the संसार.
It is घर to the एनएफएल 's New Orleans संतो, the NCAA 's Division I-A tulane Green Wave फ़ुटबॉल team ( the largest फ़ुटबॉल stadium in सम्मेलन USA ), the State Farm Bayou Classic, the R+L वाहक New ऑरलियन्स Bowl, the Allstate Sugar कटोरी and, every चौथी साल, the BCS National Championship Game.
Because of the size और location in one of the major tourist destinations in the United राज्य, the superdome routinely makes the `` short सूची '' of candidates होने considered for प्रमुख sporting कार्यक्रम, such as the Super कटोरी and the Final चार.
In 2005, the Superdome gained अंतरराष्ट्रीय ध्यान of a अलग type जब it housed thousands of people seeking shelter इससे Hurricane कैटरीना.
The भवन suffered extensive damage as a result of the तूफ़ान, and was closed लिये अनेक months afterward.
On October 3, 2011, it थी घोषित कि जर्मनी automaker Mercedes-Benz purchased नामकरण अधिकारों to the stadium.
the new name took प्रभाव on October 23, 2011.
It is the third स्टेडियम कि रै naming rights from mercedes-benz ( and first in the संयुक्त States ), after the Mercedes-Benz Arena, the stadium of Bundesliga club VfB Stuttgart, in Stuttgart, Germany और the Mercedes-Benz Arena in शंघाई, China.
लॉबी of Jambo House
Giraffe on the savannah at Jambo हाउस
Disney 's एनिमल किंगडम Lodge is an african-themed deluxe resort at the वॉल्ट Disney World Resort.
It खोली on April 16, 2001.
the रिज़ॉर्ट is स्वामित्व और संचालित by Walt डिज़्नी Parks and Resorts.
डिज़्नी 's एनिमल किंगडम Lodge is located in the एनिमल किंगडम Resort क्षेत्रफल, adjacent to डिज़्नी 's Animal किंगडम.
it gives अतिथि the opportunity to दृश्य grazing वन्यजीव बाहर उनके कक्ष and पब्लिक क्षेत्रों in the resort भीतर निकटता of the पशु, conveying the अहसास of being in an African सवाना.
The लोगों 's Party, भी known as the `` populists '', was a short-lived राजनैतिक पार्टी in the United States स्थापित in 1891 दौरान the Populist movement ( United States, 19th Century ).
It was सबसे महत्वपूर्ण in 1892-96, and then rapidly faded दूर.
Based among poor, white cotton किसानो in the South ( especially उत्तर कैरोलिना, अलबामा, and टेक्सास ) और hard-pressed wheat किसानो in the plains states ( especially कान्सास and Nebraska ), it represented a कट्टरपंथी crusading form of agrarianism and hostility to banks, railroads, and elites generally.
It sometimes formed coalitions साथ मजदूर unions, and in 1896 the Democrats endorsed their अध्यक्षीय nominee, William Jennings Bryan.
the terms `` populist '' और `` populism `` are commonly used लिये anti-elitist appeals in opposition to स्थापित रूचि and मुख्यधारा parties.
Linguistic map of Nigeria, कैमरून, and Benin.
Sign in अंग्रेज़ी, outside the University of लागोस
वहीँ are सैंकड़ों of भाषाएं spoken in Nigeria.
the प्रमुख भाषाएं are Yoruba, Hausa, Igbo, Edo, Fulfulde, Kanuri, and Ibibio.
the official language of सीरियल, English, the पूर्व colonial language, थी chosen to facilitate the cultural and linguistic एकता of the देश.
English, however, remains an exclusive preserve of the country 's शहरी elite, और is नहीं widely spoken in rural क्षेत्रों, जिससे comprise three quarters of the countries population.
Nigeria 's linguistic diversity is a microcosm of Africa as a whole, encompassing three प्रमुख अफ़्रीकी भाषाएं families : Afroasiatic, Nilo-Saharan, and Niger–Congo.
Nigeria also रै several as-yet unclassified भाषाएं, such as Cen Tuum, which may represent a relic of an even greater diversity prior to the spread of the वर्तमान language परिवारों.
a series of events led to the attack on पर्ल Harbor.
War between Japan और the United States था been a सम्भावना that प्रत्येक स्वदेश 's सैन्य शक्तियां नियोजित for since the 1920s, though real tension did नहीं begin until the 1931 invasion of मंचूरिया by जापानी.
over the next दशक, Japan expanded slowly into China, अग्रणी to all out war between the two in 1937.
In 1940 Japan invaded French Indochina in an effort to embargo सब imports into China, सहित war supplies purchased from the U.S.
This move prompted the संयुक्त States to embargo सब आयल निर्यात, leading the इम्पीरियल Japanese नेवी to estimate कि it था less than दो years of बंकर oil remaining और to support the मौजूदा plans to seize आयल resources in the डच ईस्ट इंडीज.
नियोजन था महरूम underway लिये some time on an attack on the `` दक्षिणी Resource Area '' to add it to the Greater East एशिया Co-Prosperity Sphere that Japan envisioned in the Pacific.
The फिलीपीन islands, at कि time an American territory, were also a जापानी target.
The Japanese military concluded that an आक्रमण of the फिलीपीन would provoke an अमरीकी military जवाब.
बल्कि than seize and fortify the आइलैंड्स, and wait लिये the inevitable US counterattack, जापानी 's सैन्य leaders instead decided on the pre-emptive पर्ल Harbor आक्रमण, which they assumed would negate the American शक्तियां needed for the मुक्ति and reconquest of the islands.
Planning लिये the attack had begun in very early 1941, by admiral isoroku यामामोटो.
he finally जीती assent इससे the Naval High कमांड by, among अन्य things, threatening to इस्तीफा.
The आक्रमण was approved in the summer at an इम्पीरियल Conference and again at a second Conference in the पतन.
Simultaneously over the year, pilots were trained, और ships prepared लिये its निष्पादन.
प्राधिकार लिये the attack was granted at the second इम्पीरियल सम्मेलन if a राजनयिक परिणाम satisfactory to जापानी थी not पहुँचे.
After final approval by सम्राट Hirohito the अनुक्रम to attack was issued at the शुरूआत of December.
A common office stapler
A common school stapler
A stapler is a mechanical device कि joins sheets of paper or similar सामग्री by ड्राइविंग a thin metal staple through the sheets और folding the ends.
Staplers हैं widely used in government, business, कार्यालयों, homes and schools.
the word `` stapler '' can दरअसल refer to a क्रमांक of अलग डिवाइस of varying उपयोग.
In addition to joining paper sheets together, staplers can also be used in a surgical सेटिंग to जुड़ें tissue साथ with सर्जिकल staples to बंद a surgical घाव ( much in the same रास्ता as stitches or sutures ).
typically, सबसे staplers हैं used to जुड़ें अनेक चादरें of paper.
Paper staplers come in two distinct types : manual and इलेक्ट्रिक.
Manual staplers are normally hand-held, although मॉडल that are used while नियत on a desk or other surface are नहीं uncommon.
इलेक्ट्रिक staplers मौजूद in a variety of अलग designs and मॉडल.
उनके प्राथमिक operating function is to join विशाल numbers of पेपर sheets साथ in rapid succession.
Some electric staplers can join up to 20 चादरें at a समय.
Swallowing, known scientifically as deglutition, is the process in the human or एनिमल body that makes कुछ pass from the mouth, to the pharynx, and into the ग्रासनाल, जबकि shutting the epiglottis.
If इस fails and the object goes through the trachea, then choking or pulmonary aspiration can occur.
in the human body it is नियंत्रित by the swallowing reflex.
Thaddeus स्टीवंस ( April 4, 1792 – अगस्त 11, 1868 ), of पेन्सिलवेनिया, was a leader of the Radical Republican गुट of the Republican Party and a fierce प्रतिद्वन्दी of slavery.
He थी one of the सबसे influential members in the इतिहास of कॉंग्रेस.
as chairman of the powerful हाउस तरीके and अर्थात् Committee, Stevens, a witty, व्यंग्यात्मक स्पीकर और flamboyant party नेता, वर्चस्व the हाउस from 1861 जबतक उसके death.
He wrote much of the financial विधान that paid for the अमरीकी Civil War.
Stevens और Senator चार्ल्स sumner यहूद the प्रधान leaders of the कट्टरपंथी Republicans दौरान the war and Reconstruction era.
Scholarly views of स्टीवंस have swung sharply since उसके death as interpretations of Reconstruction have changed.
Historians of the Dunning स्कूल ( 1890s–1940s ) held Stevens responsible लिये demanding harsh उपचार of the श्वेत दक्षिण और violating अमरीकी traditions of republicanism, depicting Stevens as a villain लिये उसके वकालत of harsh उपायों in the दक्षिण such as disfranchising all ex-confederates.
इस highly negative characterization held sway into the 1950s.
The rise of the neo-abolitionist स्कूल in the 1950s led to a strong positive appreciation of स्टीवंस ' work on civil अधिकारों for Freedmen.
a recent biographer characterizes him as, `` The ग्रेट Commoner, savior of free public शिक्षा in Pennsylvania, national Republican नेता in the struggles against गुलामी in the United States and intrepid mainstay of the attempt to secure जातिगत justice लिये the freedmen during पुनर्निर्माण, the only सदस्य of the House of प्रतिनिधि ever to have been ज्ञात as the 'dictator ' of कॉंग्रेस. ''
अवलोकन of the अनुवाद of eukaryotic messenger RNA
Diagram showing the translation of mRNA and the संश्लेषण of proteins by a ribosome
In molecular biology और genetics, अनुवाद is the प्रक्रम through जिससे सेल्यूलर ribosomes manufacture proteins.
it is part of the process of जीन अभिव्यक्ति.
in translation, messenger RNA ( mRNA ) उत्पादित by ट्रांसक्रिप्शन is decoded by the ribosome to produce a विशिष्ट अमीनो acid कड़ी, or polypeptide, that will later fold into an क्रियाशील प्रोटीन.
In bacteria, अनुवाद occurs in the cell 's cytoplasm, where the large और छोटी subunits of the ribosome हैं स्तिथ, and bind to the mRNA.
in eukaryotes, translation occurs आरपार the membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum in a प्रक्रम called vectorial संश्लेषण.
The ribosome facilitates decoding by inducing the binding of trnas with complementary anticodon sequences to that of the mRNA.
The tRNAs carry विशिष्ट amino acids that हैं chained together into a polypeptide as the mRNA गुजरता through and is `` पढ़ा '' by the ribosome in a फ़ैशन reminiscent to that of a भण्डार ticker and ticker टेप.
in many instances, the entire ribosome/mRNA complex बांधता to the outer membrane of the अशिष्ट endoplasmic reticulum और रिलीज the nascent protein polypeptide अंदर लिये later vesicle हस्तांतरण and secretion बाहर of the कोशिका.
Many types of transcribed RNA, ऐसे as transfer rna, ribosomal rna, और small नाभिकीय RNA, do not undergo translation into proteins.
Translation proceeds in four phases : दीक्षा, elongation, translocation और termination ( all describing the growth of the अमीनो एसिड कड़ी, or polypeptide कि is the product of translation ).
अमीनो acids are brought to ribosomes and समवेत into proteins.
In activation, the सही amino acid is covalently bonded to the correct ट्रांसफ़र RNA ( tRNA ).
The अमीनो एसिड is joined by its carboxyl group to the 3 ' oh of the trna by an ester bond.
When the tRNA रै an amino acid linked to it, it is termed `` charged ''.
दीक्षा involves the छोटी subunit of the ribosome बाइंडिंग to the 5 ' end of mRNA with the help of initiation factors ( IF ).
termination of the polypeptide happens जब the a site of the राइबोसोम faces a stop codon ( uaa, UAG, or uga ).
No tRNA can recognize or bind to this codon.
Instead, the stop codon induces the binding of a release factor प्रोटीन that prompts the disassembly of the entire ribosome/mrna complex.
A number of एंटीबायोटिक अधिनियम by inhibiting अनुवाद ; ये include anisomycin, cycloheximide, chloramphenicol, tetracycline, streptomycin, erythromycin, और puromycin, among अन्य.
Prokaryotic ribosomes have a अलग ढांचा इससे that of eukaryotic ribosomes, और thus एंटीबायोटिक can specifically निशाना बैक्टीरियल infections बगैर any detriment to a eukaryotic host 's कोशिकाएं.
A multimedia message on a mobile फोन.
Multimedia Messaging Service ( mms ) is a standard way to send messages that include multimedia सामग्री to और from mobile फोन.
it extends the core sms ( Short संदेश Service ) capability कि allowed एक्सचेंज of text संदेश तभी up to 160 characters in लंबाई.
The most popular उपयोग is to send छायाचित्र from camera-equipped handsets, हालांकि it is भी popular as a method of delivering news और entertainment content including videos, pictures, टेक्स्ट pages और ringtones.
The मानक is developed by the Open Mobile Alliance ( OMA ), हालांकि during विकास it थी भाग of the 3GPP और वैप समूह.
smallpox was an संक्रामक disease unique to humans, caused by either of two virus variants, Variola major and Variola नाबालिग.
The disease is also known by the Latin names variola or Variola वीरा, निकला from varius ( `` spotted '' ) or varus ( `` मुंहासे '' ).
the बीमारी थी originally ज्ञात in English as the `` चेचक '' or `` red plague '' ; the term `` smallpox '' was first प्रयुक्त in Britain in the 15th century to फर्क variola इससे the `` great चेचक '' ( syphilis ).
The last naturally occurring मामला of smallpox ( variola नाबालिग ) थी diagnosed on 26 October 1977.
smallpox localized in small blood बरतन of the skin and in the mouth and गला.
In the skin it resulted in a characteristic maculopapular खाज और, later, raised fluid-filled फफोले.
V. major produces a more serious बीमारी और has an overall mortality रेट of 30–35 %.
V. नाबालिग causes a milder form of बीमारी ( also known as alastrim, cottonpox, milkpox, whitepox, और Cuban खुजली ) which मारता about 1 % of its पीड़ितों.
Long-term जटिलताओं of V. प्रमुख infection शामिल characteristic scars, commonly on the फेस, which occur in 65–85 % of survivors.
Blindness resulting इससे corneal ulceration and scarring, and limb deformities due to गठिया और osteomyelitis are less आम complications, seen in about 2–5 % of cases.
smallpox is believed to have उभरा in human populations परिचय 10,000 BC.
The earliest शारीरिक evidence of it is संभवतः the pustular खाज on the mummified body of pharaoh Ramses V of मिश्र.
the बीमारी killed an estimated 400,000 Europeans annually during the closing सालो of the 18th century ( including five reigning monarchs ), और थी जिम्मेदार for a third of all blindness.
Of सब those infected, 20–60 % —and over 80 % of infected children—died from the disease.
smallpox थी responsible लिये an estimated 300–500 million मौतों during the 20th century.
As recently as 1967, the World Health Organization ( WHO ) estimated कि 15 million people contracted the disease and that two लाख died in that साल.
बाद टीकाकरण अभियान throughout the 19th and 20th centuries, the WHO certified the eradication of smallpox in 1979.
smallpox is एक of two infectious रोगों to have महरूम eradicated, the अन्य होने rinderpest, जिससे was घोषित eradicated in 2011.
`` I want to थाम अपना Hand '' is a song by the English rock band the Beatles.
Written by जॉन लेनन and पॉल McCartney, और अंकित in अक्तूबर 1963, it थी the first बीटल्स record to be made using four-track उपकरण.
साथ advance orders exceeding one लाख copies in the United Kingdom, `` I want to थाम अपना Hand '' होता ordinarily have gone straight to the top of the अंग्रेजों record charts on its day of release ( 29 November 1963 ) था it नहीं been blocked by the group 's first million विक्रेता `` She loves You ``, the Beatles ' पिछला uk single, which थी having a resurgent spell in the top position following intense media coverage of the समूह.
Taking two सप्ताह to dislodge its predecessor, `` I Want to Hold Your हाथ '' ठहरे at number one for five weeks and remained in the uk शीर्ष पचास for twenty-one weeks in कुल.
it was also the group 's first American number one, entering the Billboard Hot 100 chart on 18 जनवरी 1964 at number forty-five and starting the अंग्रेजों आक्रमण of the American म्यूज़िक industry.
by 1 February it held the क्रमांक एक स्पॉट — लिये seven सप्ताह — पहले being replaced by `` She loves तुम '', a रिवर्स परिदृश्य of कया had occurred in Britain, और remained in the us चार्ट लिये a total of fifteen सप्ताह.
`` I want to थाम Your Hand '' became the Beatles ' best-selling single worldwide.
A gasser was a प्रकार of hot rod originating on the dragstrips of the United States in the लेट 1950s and continued जबतक the जल्दी 1970s.
Gassers were आधारित on production models from the 1930s to mid-1960s, which have been stripped of extraneous वज़न and jacked up using a ट्रक बीम axle to provide better weight वितरण on त्वरण ( Beam axles are also हल्का than an स्वतंत्र front suspension ), though a raised stock front suspension is आम as खूब.
आम weight reduction तकनीकों include fiberglass body panels, stripped इंटीरियर्स और plexiglass खिड़कियाँ ( sometimes रंग tinted ).
Because वे were primarily built for रेसिंग, ये गाड़ियाँ typically had the engine swapped to a larger or more powerful एक, the existing stock engine परिवर्धित ( प्रायः heavily ) or both.
It was बहुत common to fit a जड़ें supercharger and mechanical fuel injection, such as एक from Algon, Hilborn, or Crower.
साथ रूप होने लिखवाई by फलन, उनके रूप is often बहुत शीर्ष heavy and ungainly, largely due to front ends होने उठाया higher than stock, to assist in the weight ट्रांसफ़र during रैपिड त्वरण ( racing ).
Having उनके exhaust pipes exit through the front फेंडर well is a common characteristic of gassers, as is having bodies चित्रित in flamboyant metalflakes, मोती, और candy finishes complemented by lettering in जंगली fonts.
The नाम arose because वे competed in a gasoline -fueled drag रेसिंग क्लास, rather than एक using methanol or nitromethane.
the gasser is the predecessor of the modern Funny Car.
Twelve-lead EKG of a 26-year-old male
Electrocardiography ( ECG or ईकेजी from ) is a transthoracic ( across the वक्ष or chest ) interpretation of the electrical activity of the heart over a period of time, as detected by electrodes संलग्न to the सतह of the skin और recorded by a device बाह्य to the body.
the recording उत्पादित by this noninvasive कार्यविधि is termed an electrocardiogram ( also ECG or EKG ).
an ECG is प्रयुक्त to माप the rate और नियमितता of heartbeats, as खूब as the आकार and position of the chambers, the presence of कोई क्षति to the heart, and the प्रभाव of दवाएँ or डिवाइस used to regulate the heart, such as a pacemaker.
Most ECGs हैं performed for diagnostic or research purposes on इंसान दिल, लकिन may also be performed on पशु, usually लिये निदान of दिल abnormalities or शोध.
Donald John ट्रम्प, sr. ( born जून 14, 1946 ) is an American business magnate, television personality and author.
He is the chairman and अध्यक्ष of the Trump संगठन और the संस्थापक of Trump Entertainment रिसॉर्ट.
Trump 's हद lifestyle, outspoken manner, and role on the NBC reality दिखाएँ The प्रशिक्षु have made उसे a well-known हस्ती who was No. 14 on the 2012 Forbes Celebrity 100 list.
ट्रम्प is the son of Fred Trump, a धनवान New York City real-estate developer.
he worked लिये his father 's firm, Elizabeth ट्रम्प & बेटे, while attending the व्हार्टन School of the University of पेन्सिलवेनिया, और in 1968 officially joined the company.
He was दिए कंट्रोल of the कम्पनी in 1971 and renamed it The Trump Organization.
In 2010, ट्रम्प expressed an ब्याज in बनने a candidate लिये अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States in the 2012 चुनाव, though in May 2011, he घोषित he would not be a candidate.
In दिसम्बर 2011, ट्रम्प थी suggested as a संभावित vice presidential selection by मिशेल Bachmann, if she were to win the रिपब्लिकन nomination.
`` A बदलें Is Gon na Come '' is a 1964 सिंगल by r & B singer-songwriter sam cooke, written and first recorded in 1963 और released under the आरसीए Victor label shortly after his मौत in late 1964.
हालांकि only a modest hit for cooke in comparison with his previous singles, the song came to exemplify the 1960s ' Civil Rights Movement.
the song has gained in popularity और नाजुक acclaim in the decades since its release, और is # 12 on रोलिंग Stone 's 500 महानतम गीतों of All Time.
भाप उठती इससे the Nesjavellir geothermal Power Station in Iceland.
geothermal उर्जा is thermal energy generated और stored in the धरती.
Thermal उर्जा is the energy कि determines the तापमान of matter.
The geothermal energy of the Earth 's क्रस्ट originates इससे the असली formation of the planet ( 20 % ) and from radioactive decay of खनिज ( 80 % ).
The geothermal gradient, जिससे is the अंतर in तापमान between the core of the planet और its surface, drives a continuous conduction of thermal energy in the form of heat इससे the core to the surface.
The adjective geothermal originates from the यूनानी roots γη ( ge ), अर्थ earth, और θερμος ( thermos ), meaning hot.
at the कोर of the Earth, थर्मल energy is created by radioactive क्षय और temperatures may reach over 5000 °C ( 9,000 °f ).
Heat conducts from the core to surrounding cooler चट्टान.
the ऊँची temperature and दबाव cause some rock to melt, बनाना magma convection upward चूंकि it is हल्का than the ठोस चट्टान.
The magma heats rock और water in the crust, sometimes up to 370 °c ( 700 °F ).
इससे hot springs, geothermal उर्जा has been used for bathing चूंकि Paleolithic times and for space heating चूंकि ancient Roman times, लकिन it is अभी बेहतर known for विद्युत generation.
विश्वव्यापी, परिचय 10,715 megawatts ( MW ) of geothermal power is ऑनलाइन in 24 countries.
An additional 28 gigawatts of सीधा geothermal हीटिंग capacity is installed for district heating, space हीटिंग, spas, industrial प्रक्रियाओं, desalination and agricultural applications.
geothermal power is cost effective, विश्वसनीय, sustainable, and environmentally friendly, लकिन रै historically महरूम सीमित to क्षेत्रों near tectonic plate boundaries.
Recent technological advances have dramatically विस्तारित the range and आकार of सुगठित संसाधन, विशेषकर for अनुप्रयोग ऐसे as घर heating, opening a potential for फैली शोषण.
Geothermal कुएं रिलीज ग्रीनहाउस gases trapped गहन भीतर the earth, but ये emissions are much lower प्रति उर्जा ईकाई than those of fossil fuels.
as a result, geothermal शक्ति रै the potential to सहायता mitigate global warming if widely deployed in प्लेस of चट्टान fuels.
The Earth 's geothermal resources हैं theoretically अधिक than adequate to supply मानवता 's energy needs, but only a very small भिन्न may be profitably शोषित.
Drilling और खोजी for गहन संसाधन is very expensive.
Forecasts लिये the future of geothermal शक्ति depend on assumptions about प्रौद्योगिकी, उर्जा prices, subsidies, and interest rates.
पायलट कार्यक्रम जैसे eweb 's customer opt in Green Power Program show that customers would be willing to अदा a little अधिक for a renewable energy सोर्स like geothermal.
But as a परिणाम of government assisted research and industry अनुभव, the cost of generating geothermal शक्ति has decreased by 25 % over the पास्ट two decades.
in 2001, geothermal energy cost between दो and ten सेंट per सम्पात.
Ownership of प्रॉपर्टी may be private, collective, or common and the प्रॉपर्टी may be objects, land/real एस्टेट, or intellectual property.
Determining स्वामित्व in law involves determining जो has निश्चित rights and कर्तव्य over the प्रॉपर्टी.
ये rights और कर्तव्य, sometimes called a 'bundle of rights ', can be separated and held by different parties.
the सवाल of स्वामित्व reaches वापस to the ancient philosophers, Plato और Aristotle, जो held different opinions on the subject.
प्लेटो ( 428/427 bc – 348/347 bc ) विचार निजी property created divisive inequalities, जबकि अरस्तू ( 384 bc – 322 BC ) thought private property enabled people to receive the full benefit of उनके मजदूर.
Private प्रॉपर्टी can circumvent कया is अभी referred to as the “ त्रासदी of the कॉमन्स ” प्रॉब्लम, जहाँ people tend to रुसवा आम प्रॉपर्टी more than they do private प्रॉपर्टी.
Given a short-sighted मालिक, however, a private property system can make ये tragedies worse—for example, a private owner of a piece of oil-rich प्रॉपर्टी, depending on his worldview, might be more interested in short-term financial लाभ than incremental use with an eye toward other 's चिंताएं ( e.g., those of भविष्य generations, the disenfranchised, इत्यादि. ).
While Aristotle justified the अस्तित्व of private ownership, he बाएँ खोलें questions of ( 1 ) how to allocate प्रॉपर्टी between what is private and common and ( 2 ) कैसा to allocate the निजी property भीतर society.
over the सहस्राब्दियों, और आरपार cultures कया can be प्रॉपर्टी और how it is regarded culturally have varied widely.
स्वामित्व is the आधार लिये अनेक अन्य concepts that form the मूलाधार of प्राचीन और modern societies such as धन, trade, debt, bankruptcy, the criminality of चोरी, and निजी vs. public property.
स्वामित्व is the कुंजी भवन ब्लाक in the विकास of the पूंजीवादी socio-economic system.
आदम Smith stated कि one of the पवित्र कानून of justice थी to guard a व्यक्ति 's property and possessions.
the process और यांत्रिकी of ownership are fairly complex : एक can gain, ट्रांसफ़र और lose ownership of प्रॉपर्टी in a क्रमांक of ways.
To acquire प्रॉपर्टी एक can purchase it साथ money, व्यापार it लिये other property, receive it as a gift, steal it, find it, make, it or homestead it.
One can ट्रांसफ़र or खोना स्वामित्व of property by selling it for money, exchanging it for other property, giving it as a gift, होने robbed of it, it, or having it stripped इससे एक 's ownership through legal अर्थात् ऐसे as eviction, foreclosure, seizure, or लेने.
स्वामित्व is self-propagating in that the मालिक of कोई प्रॉपर्टी will also अपना the economic लाभ of that प्रॉपर्टी.
`` What 's My नाम ? '' is a song recorded by Barbadian रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार Rihanna, लिये her fifth studio एल्बम लाउड ( 2010 ).
Featuring guest vocals इससे Canadian rapper Drake, the song was released as the दूसरी single इससे लाउड on अक्तूबर 29, 2010 through डेफ jam Recordings.
The R & B सोंग was उत्पादित by the Norwegian production duo स्टारगेट, और was लिखा by the duo साथ with Ester डीन, Traci hale, and Drake.
Lyrically, it incorporates विषयवस्तु of sexual मैथुन and romance.
Music critics gave the सोंग positive समीक्षाएँ, citing it कुछ of Rihanna 's best vocal कार्य to date ; there थी a praise regarding its रोमांटिक nature, as well as its यौन टोन.
`` कया 's My नाम ? '' was a वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी और अव्वल the US बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 चार्ट, giving Rihanna उसके third number-one single in 2010, as खूब as her eighth overall on the chart.
The सोंग also अव्वल the charts in Hungary और the United किंगडम and पहुँचे the top पाँच in Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, नार्वे और Slovakia.
The सोंग received a नामांकन at the 54th Grammy Awards for Best rap/sung सहयोग.
An accompanying म्यूज़िक video, directed by Philip Andelman, portrays a romantic एनकाउंटर between रिहाना और Drake in a किराना स्टोर साथ with रोमांटिक दृश्यों between the pair and रिहाना walking through मैनहटन 's Lower East Side.
`` What 's My नाम ? '' was प्रचारित साथ live performances across both sides of the अटलांटिक, including Saturday Night सजीव in अमेरिका और the श्रेणी सात finale of The x फ़ैक्टर in the संयुक्त किंगडम.
the latter प्रदर्शन resulted in an investigation from the country 's मीडिया regulator, Ofcom, लिये the raunchy प्रकृति of रिहाना 's outfit.
A mathematical constant is a special number, प्रायः a रियल number, that is `` significantly दिलचस्प in some way ''.
स्थिरांक arise in अनेक different क्षेत्रों of गणित, with स्थिरांक such as e ( mathematical निरंतर ) | and pi| occurring in such diverse contexts as geometry, number सिद्धान्त and calculus.
कया it अर्थात् लिये a constant to arise `` naturally '', और कया makes a constant `` दिलचस्प '', is ultimately a पदार्थ of taste, and कुछ mathematical constants हैं notable अधिक for ऐतिहासिक कारण than for their intrinsic गणितीय interest.
The अधिक popular स्थिरांक have been पढ़ाई throughout the ages and computed to many decimal places.
All गणितीय constants are definable numbers and प्रायः are also computable संख्याएँ ( Chaitin 's निरंतर being a significant exception ).
Elections to the संयुक्त राज्य Senate were आयोजित on November 2, 2010, for 37 of the United States सीनेट 's 100 सीटे.
( a special चुनाव on जनवरी 19, 2010 in Massachusetts थी held earlier in the year. )
Thirty-four of the seats यहूद लिये six-year terms to the Senate 's `` class three '', और three यहूद special चुनावों for shorter शर्तें.
Of the 37 elections, 19 प्रदर्शित incumbent Democrats ( 7 of जिसको retired or were defeated in the primary ) और 18 प्रदर्शित incumbent Republicans ( आठ of जिसको retired or यहूद defeated in the प्राथमिक ).
बाद the previous elections ( in 2008 ), the United राज्य सीनेट was composed of 58 Democrats, 40 Republicans, और 2 independents जो caucus साथ the Democrats.
republicans won चार सीटे held by retiring Democrats and republicans पराजित two incumbent Democrats.
This was the largest क्रमांक of republicans gains चूंकि the 1994 चुनावों और भी the पहला time since कि election कि Republicans successfully defended all of उनके अपना seats.
This थी the fourth लगातार चुनाव of `` क्लास 3 '' senators जहाँ Democrats have विफल to लाभ सीटे and the third consecutive mid-term चुनाव held in a president 's first term जहाँ republicans have picked-up seats.
Despite these Republican विन्स, however, the Democrats retained a majority of the सीनेट साथ 51 seats plus 2 independents जो caucus साथ them, compared to the 47 republicans.
A solstice is an astronomical event that occurs twice each year as the Sun reaches its highest or lowest excursion relative to the celestial equator on the celestial गोला.
as a result, on the दिन of the solstice, the Sun appears to have पहुँचे its highest or न्यूनतम सालाना altitude in the sky above the horizon at local सौर noon.
The शब्द संक्रांति is derived इससे the लैटिन सोल ( sun ) and sistere ( to stand स्टिल ), because at the solstices, the Sun स्टैंड स्टिल in declination ; कि is, the मौसमी movement of the Sun 's पाथ ( as seen from Earth ) comes to a रोकें पहले reversing direction.
The solstices, together with the equinoxes, हैं connected with the seasons.
In many cultures the solstices mark either the beginning or the midpoint of winter and summer.
the term solstice can also be प्रयुक्त in a broader sense, as the date ( दिन ) when this occurs.
The day of the solstice is either the longest दिन of the साल ( in गर्मियाँ ) or the shortest दिन of the year ( in शीत ) लिये any place बाहर of the tropics.
Jerry Lee Lewis ( born September 29, 1935 ) is an अमरीकी rock और roll and country म्यूज़िक singer-songwriter and pianist.
he is ज्ञात by the nickname `` the कातिल '' and is often viewed as “rock & फेंकें 's first ग्रेट wild man”.
An जल्दी पायोनियर of rock and roll म्यूज़िक, in 1956 Lewis made his first रिकार्डिंग at सूर्य Records.
`` क्रेजी Arms `` बेची 300,000 copies in the South, but it थी his 1957 hit `` पूरे lotta shakin ' Going On `` कि shot Lewis to कीर्ति worldwide.
लुईस followed this in that वही year जब he recorded songs such as `` Great गेंदें of Fire ``, `` Breathless `` और `` High School गोपनीय ``.
Lewis बेची more रिकॉर्ड than Elvis प्रेस्ली at इस time.
However, Lewis ' चट्टान 'n ' roll career faltered in the wake of उसके marriage to उसके यंग cousin.
He had little कामयाबी in the charts following the कांड and his popularity जल्दी धुंधली.
His live performance शुल्क plummeted इससे $ 10,000 per night to $ 250.
In the meantime he was संकल्पित to लाभ वापस some of his popularity.
During the early 60’s he did n't have much chart कामयाबी with few अपवाद such as `` What 'd I कह ``.
उसके live performances at this time were increasingly wild और ऊर्जावान.
His album Live at the Star Club, हैम्बर्ग इससे 1964 is often regarded by many music पत्रकारों और प्रशंसक as one of the wildest and greatest rock और roll कॉन्सर्ट albums कभी.
बाद recording गीतों such as `` I 'm on Fire '' for several सालो with छोटी success, in 1968 Lewis बना a परिवर्तन into देश music और had hits with गीतों such as `` another प्लेस, Another Time ''.
इस reignited उसके career and throughout the late '60s और '70s he regularly topped the country-western charts.
His # 1 देश hits included `` To Make प्रेम मीठी लिये You ``, `` There Must Be More to प्रेम Than इस ``, `` Would तुम लो Another मौका on Me `` and `` me और Bobby mcgee ``.
Lewis 's successes continued throughout the दशक और he embraced his rock 'n ' roll पास्ट with गीतों such as a cover of the बिग Bopper 's `` chantilly फीता `` and `` Rockin ' My Life Away ``.
In the 21st सदी Lewis continues to tour to ऑडियंस around the संसार और स्टिल releases new albums.
एक ऐसे एल्बम, titled Last Man खड़ा, is his बेहतरीन selling to तिथि at over a million copies sold worldwide.
इस was followed by औसत Old man जिससे रै प्राप्त कुछ of the best sales of Lewis’s करियर.
लुईस has था a dozen gold रिकॉर्ड in दोनो चट्टान और country, won अनेक Grammy पुरस्कार, सहित a Lifetime उपलब्धि पुरस्कार.
लुईस थी inducted into the चट्टान और Roll Hall of Fame in 1986, and his pioneering योगदान to the genre has been recognized by the Rockabilly Hall of Fame.
in 1989, his जीवन was chronicled in the फिल्म Great Balls of Fire, अभिनीत Dennis Quaid.
In 2003, Rolling Stone Magazine सूचीबद्ध उसके box नियत सब कातिल, no Filler : The Anthology number 242 on उनके list of `` 500 greatest एल्बम of सब time ``.
In 2004, वे क्रमित him number 24 on उनके सूची of the 100 महानतम Artists of All Time.
लुईस is the पिछला surviving member of Sun Records ' Million Dollar quartet and the Class of '55 album, जिससे also included जॉनी Cash, कार्ल perkins, Roy Orbison and Elvis Presley.
Henry लुई Stephens, बेनाम watercolor ( 1863 ) of a man reading a समाचारपत्र with शीर्षक `` Presidential Proclamation / गुलामी ''.
The Emancipation Proclamation was an order issued to सब खण्ड of the कार्यपालिका branch ( सहित the फौज and Navy ) of the United States by President Abraham Lincoln on जनवरी 1, 1863, दौरान the American सिविल युद्ध.
It थी आधारित on the president 's constitutional प्राधिकार as commander in chief of the हथियारबंद शक्तियां ; it थी not a विधि passed by Congress.
it proclaimed सब those enslaved in confederate territory to be forever free, और ordered the Army ( and सब segments of the कार्यपालिका शाखा ) to दावत as free all those enslaved in ten राज्य that यहूद still in विद्रोह, thus applying to 3.1 million of the 4 million स्लेव in the U.S.
The उदघोषणा could not be enforced in areas स्टिल under rebellion, but as the फौज took कंट्रोल of Confederate regions, the slaves in those regions यहूद emancipated rather than returned to उनके मास्टर्स.
इससे 20,000 to 50,000 former slaves in regions where rebellion था already been subdued were तत्काल emancipated, और over 3 लाख more यहूद emancipated as the Union army advanced.
The उदघोषणा किया not apply to the five slave राज्य कि were not in rebellion, nor to most regions already controlled by the संघ army ; emancipation there होता आइये बाद पृथक राज्य actions and/or the दिसम्बर 1865 ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment, which made गुलामी illegal everywhere in the U.S.
the Proclamation did not compensate the owners, किया नहीं itself outlaw slavery, और did not make the ex-slaves ( पुकारा freedmen ) नागरिकों.
it made the eradication of slavery an explicit war goal, in जोड to the goal of reuniting the संघ.
On सितंबर 22, 1862, Lincoln had issued a preliminary proclamation that he would order the emancipation of सब स्लेव in कोई state of the Confederate States of America that did नहीं वापसी to Union control by January 1, 1863.
None returned, and the order, signed और issued January 1, 1863, took प्रभाव except in locations where the Union had already ज़्यादातर regained कंट्रोल.
The Proclamation outraged white Southerners who envisioned a रेस war, angered some उत्तरी डेमोक्रेट, energized anti-slavery forces, और weakened शक्तियां in Europe that wanted to intervene to सहायता the Confederacy.
it also lifted the आत्माओं of अफ़्रीकी Americans दोनो in the Southern और Northern States, and led to अनेक slaves escaping उनके मास्टर्स and running behind संघ lines in order to have उनके emancipation enforced.
Sucker पंच is a 2011 अमरीकी fantasy action फिल्मी निर्देशित by Zack Snyder and co-written by उसे और Steve Shibuya.
it is Snyder 's पहला film based on an original स्क्रिप्ट.
The फिल्मी stars Emily ब्राउनिंग, abbie Cornish, Jena Malone, Vanessa Hudgens, Jamie Chung, and Carla Gugino.
the storyline फ़ॉलो the fantasies of a यंग स्त्री जो is committed to a mental institution, as वो makes a plan to एस्केप the हॉस्पिटल पहले कष्ट a मस्तिष्कखंडछेदन.
The film was released in दोनो conventional and imax थिएटर in the United राज्य at midnight on March 25, 2011.
it received generally negative reviews from critics, लकिन was a moderate box office कामयाबी.
सामने and वापस of Canon powershot a95, a typical pocket-size डिजिटल camera
Haselblad 503CW साथ ixpress V96C डिजिटल back, an example of a पेशेवर digital कैमरा system
a डिजिटल camera ( or digicam ) is a camera that takes video or still photographs by रिकॉर्डिंग images on an electronic image sensor.
सबसे कैमरे sold आज are digital, and digital कैमरे हैं incorporated into many डिवाइस ranging इससे गुस्से and mobile phones ( पुकारा कैमरा phones ) to vehicles.
Digital और film cameras share an optical प्रणाली, typically using a lens साथ a variable diaphragm to focus light onto an image pickup device.
the diaphragm and shutter admit the सही राशि of light to the imager, बस as साथ film लकिन the चित्र pickup device is इलेक्ट्रॉनिक rather than रासायनिक.
However, नापसंद film कैमरे, digital cameras can प्रदर्शक images on a screen immediately after being recorded, and स्टोर and delete बिंब from मेमोरी.
Many digital कैमरे can also record moving video with ध्वनि.
कुछ digital cameras can क्रॉप and stitch तस्वीरें and perform other elementary image संपादन.
the अंदर and front of a Dell PowerEdge web सर्वर, a कंप्यूटर designed for rack mounting
Multiple वेब servers may be used for a ऊँची traffic जालस्थल, here चार Sun Fire X4200 servers are संस्थापित together
Web सर्वर can refer to either the हार्डवेयर ( the computer ) or the software ( the कंप्यूटर application ) that helps to deliver web content कि can be accessed through the Internet.
The most common use of वेब servers is to host वेबसाइटों, but वहीँ हैं other uses ऐसे as gaming, आंकड़ा भंडार or कार्यशील एंटरप्राइज़ applications.
The American Red Cross ( चाप ), also ज्ञात as the American National रेड Cross, is a humanitarian संगठन कि provides emergency assistance, disaster relief and education अंदर the United States.
it is the designated u.S. affiliate of the International संघ of Red Cross and Red Crescent समाजों.
Today, in addition to घरेलू disaster relief, the अमरीकी Red Cross offers services in पाँच other क्षेत्रों : जातियाँ services कि help the मोहताज ; communications services और सुकून लिये सैन्य members and their family members ; the collection, processing and distribution of blood and रक्त products ; educational programs on preparedness, health, और safety ; and international relief and development कार्यक्रम.
जारी a corporate charter by the संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस under Title 36 of the United States कोड, खण्ड 3001, the अमरीकी National रेड Cross is governed by volunteers और समर्थित by community दान, आय इससे स्वास्थ्य and safety training and उत्पाद, and आय इससे रक्त products.
the American Red क्रॉस is headquartered in Washington, D.C.
The Chairman of the फलक of Governors, serving her second three-year पद, is bonnie McElveen-Hunter.
The current अध्यक्ष and मुख्य कार्यपालिका अधिकारी is Gail J. McGovern.
A rooster in कोसोवो
a मुर्गा, showing wattles, earlobes and comb
a rooster crowing ( साथ ऑडियो )
सही
a मुर्गा ( भी called a cockerel or मुर्गा ) is a male gallinaceous bird.
it usually refers to a पुरूष मुर्गा ( Gallus gallus ).
नादान male मुर्गियों less than एक year old are called cockerels.
The term `` मुर्गा '' originates in the संयुक्त States, and the पद is widely प्रयुक्त throughout North अमेरिका, as well as Australia और New जीलैंड.
In the संयुक्त किंगडम और Ireland the पुरानी पद `` cockerel '' is more commonly used.
`` Cock '' is in सामान्य use as the नाम लिये a पुरूष of other species of बर्ड, लिये उदाहरण `` मुर्गा sparrow ''.
`` roosting '' is the कार्रवाई of perching aloft to sleep at रात्रि, and is done by both sexes.
the rooster is polygamous, but can not guard अनेक nests of eggs at once.
He guards the सामान्य area where his मुर्गियां हैं nesting, and होगा आक्रमण अन्य roosters that डालें his territory.
दौरान the daytime, he usually sits on a high perch, usually 3–5 फीट off the ground to serve as a lookout for उसके flock.
he होगा sound a distinctive alarm कॉल if predators are आसपास.
the पोकीमॉन Trading Card Game ( Pokémon TCG ) is a collectible card game आधारित on the Pokémon वीडियो खेल series, पहला published in अक्तूबर 1996 by मीडिया Factory in Japan.
In the us, it was initially published by Wizards of the coast, the कम्पनी कि produces, in December 1998.
Nintendo took over publishing in जून 2003.
it is एक of Nintendo 's last remaining दमदार कड़ी to its heritage as a playing कार्ड company.
Land रोवर is a British car निर्माता with इसके मुख्यालय in Gaydon, Warwickshire, संयुक्त Kingdom which specialises in four-wheel-drive वाहनों.
It is part of the Jaguar जमीन Rover group, a subsidiary of tata मोटर्स of इण्डिया.
It is the second oldest four-wheel-drive car brand in the संसार ( बाद Jeep ).
the Land रोवर नाम was originally प्रयुक्त by the Rover कम्पनी लिये one विशिष्ट vehicle model, named बस the Land रोवर, launched by रोवर in 1948.
Over the following सालो it developed into a marque encompassing a range of four-wheel-drive models, सहित the defender, डिस्कवरी, Freelander, Range Rover, दायरा Rover Sport and Range Rover evoque.
Land Rovers हैं currently assembled in the कम्पनी 's Halewood और solihull पौधे, साथ शोध and development taking प्लेस at JLR 's Gaydon और Whitley engineering centres.
Land रोवर sold 194,000 vehicles worldwide in 2009.
हालांकि the ब्रांड originates इससे the original 1948 model, जमीन रोवर as a company रै only existed since 1978.
prior to this, it थी a उत्पाद line of the रोवर Company which was subsequently अवशोषित into the Rover-Triumph division of the British leyland Motor Corporation ( bl ) following Leyland Motor Corporation ’s takeover of रोवर in 1967.
The ongoing commercial कामयाबी of the original Land Rover series models, और latterly the दायरा Rover in the 1970s in the midst of BL’s खूब documented business troubles prompted the स्थापना of a separate Land Rover कम्पनी but still अंतर्गत the bl umbrella, बाकी part of the subsequent Rover समूह in 1988, under the स्वामित्व of British aerospace after the remains of British leyland were broken up and privatised.
in 1994 Rover समूह plc was acquired by BMW.
In 2000, Rover Group was broken-up by BMW और Land Rover थी sold to Ford Motor कम्पनी, becoming part of इसके प्रीमियर Automotive समूह.
in 2006 Ford purchased the रोवर ब्रांड from BMW लिये around £6 million.
इस reunited the रोवर and Land रोवर ब्रांड्स for the first time since 2000 जब the रोवर समूह was broken up by BMW.
In जून 2008, Ford बेची दोनो Land रोवर और जैगुआर गाड़ियाँ to tata Motors.
इस बिक्री also शामिल the dormant Rover ब्रांड
The कवर of the पहला DVD संकलन released by aniplex of The नई कप्तान shūsuke Amagai चाप
the नवीं ऋतु of the Bleach anime श्रेणी is नामित.
The series is based on Tite kubo 's manga साथ same नाम.
The episodes are निर्देशित by Noriyuki Abe and उत्पादित by TV Tokyo, Dentsu, and स्टुडियो Pierrot.
The एपीसोड ' plot focuses on the परिचय of a new Soul Reaper कप्तान, Shūsuke amagai, और the रहस्य surrounding the kasumiōji clan, एक of the परिवारों कि constitute the nobility of आत्मा समाज.
the ऋतु began airing on अप्रैल 23, 2008 in जापानी on TV टोकियो and ended on October 7, 2008.
the English अनुकूलन of the Bleach anime is licensed by Viz Media, and this चाप began airing on August 28, 2010 on Cartoon Network 's Adult तैरना, and समाप्त on January 29, 2011.
Five dvd compilations, प्रत्येक containing four एपीसोड of the ऋतु, have been released by Aniplex ; the पहला DVD संकलन थी released on November 26, 2008 और the पांचवां on कूच 25, 2009.
A dvd box होगा be published by Viz Media on December 13, 2011.
The episodes use three pieces of थीम म्यूज़िक : एक opening theme and दो closing themes.
the opening थीम is `` Chu-Bura `` by Kelun.
the first closing theme is `` नारंगी '' by lil'b, used for एपीसोड 168 to 179, और the second closing theme is `` Gallop '' by pe'zmoku, प्रयुक्त for the शेष of the एपीसोड.
the regulation of prostitution in the संयुक्त States is not among the enumerated शक्तियां of the federal सरकारी ; अंतर्गत the दसवाँ amendment to the संयुक्त States Constitution, it is इसलिए exclusively the domain of the राज्य to परमिट, prohibit, or वरना विनियमित वाणिज्यिक sex, except insofar as Congress may regulate it as भाग of अंतरराज्यीय कॉमर्स with laws जैसे the Mann अधिनियम.
in most राज्य, वेश्यावृति is considered a misdemeanor in the category of public अनुक्रम अपराधों, a अपराधों कि disrupts the अनुक्रम of a community.
it थी at one time माना to be a vagrancy crime.
फिलहाल, Nevada is the तभी state to allow brothel prostitution, the शर्तें of which are stipulated in the Nevada संशोधित statutes.
Only 8 काउंटी currently contain क्रियाशील brothels.
All forms of वेश्यावृति are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las Vegas–Paradise metropolitan area ), washoe काउंटी ( which contains रेनो ), कार्सन City, डगलस काउंटी, और lincoln County.
The अन्य काउंटी theoretically allow वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति, but some of these काउंटी currently have no active brothels.
Street वेश्यावृति, `` pandering, '' और living बंद of the proceeds of a prostitute remain illegal under Nevada विधि, as elsewhere in the देश.
As with अन्य countries, वेश्यावृति in the United States can be विभाजित into तीन broad categories : street prostitution, वेश्यालय prostitution, और अनुरक्षण वेश्यावृति.
the East Coast of the United राज्य, भी ज्ञात as the Eastern seaboard or the Atlantic Seaboard और commonly shortened to East Coast, refers to the easternmost coast of the United राज्य along the अटलांटिक समंदर.
The राज्य which have shoreline on the East Coast are, इससे north to दक्षिण, the u.S. states of maine, नई Hampshire, मैसाचुसेट्स, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New यॉर्क, New Jersey, डेलावेयर, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and फ्लोरिडा.
रिचर्ड milhous Nixon ( January 9, 1913 – April 22, 1994 ) was the 37th President of the संयुक्त States, serving from 1969 to 1974, when he became the only president to resign the office.
Nixon था previously served as a Republican u.S. representative and senator from California and as the 36th Vice अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य इससे 1953 to 1961.
निक्सन was born in Yorba लिंडा, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
he graduated from Whittier कॉलेज in 1934 and Duke University School of Law in 1937, returning to कैलिफ़ोर्निया to अभ्यास विधि.
He and his wife, Pat Nixon, moved to Washington to work लिये the संघीय government in 1942.
He subsequently served in the United राज्य Navy during World War II.
निक्सन was elected in California to the House of Representatives in 1946 and to the Senate in 1950.
उसके pursuit of the Alger hiss case established उसके reputation as a leading anti-communist, and elevated उसे to नेशनल prominence.
He was the running mate of Dwight D. Eisenhower, the Republican पार्टी अध्यक्षीय nominee in the 1952 election.
निक्सन परोसा लिये आठ सालो as vice अध्यक्ष.
he waged an unsuccessful अध्यक्षीय अभियान in 1960, narrowly losing to John F. Kennedy, and lost a रेस लिये Governor of California in 1962.
In 1968, he भागा again लिये the प्रेसिडेंसी and थी निर्वाचित.
Although Nixon initially escalated अमेरिका 's involvement in the वियतनाम युद्ध, he subsequently ended u.S. भागीदारी in 1973.
निक्सन 's visit to the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन in 1972 opened diplomatic संबंध between the two राष्ट्र, and he initiated détente और the anti-ballistic Missile सन्धि with the Soviet Union the same year.
Domestically, his administration generally embraced नीतियों कि transferred power इससे वॉशिंगटन to the राज्य.
Among अन्य things, he launched पहलों to लड़ो cancer and illegal drugs, imposed मजदूरी and price controls, enforced desegregation of कुछ दक्षिणी schools, और स्थापित the Environmental सुरक्षा Agency.
Though he presided over the चंद्र landings शुरूआत with Apollo 11, he scaled back मानवयुक्त space खोजी.
he was re-elected by a भूस्खलन in 1972.
Nixon 's second पद saw an Arab oil embargo, the इस्तीफा of his vice अध्यक्ष, spiro agnew, और a continuing series of खुलासे about the वाटरगेट scandal और other misconduct by सदस्यों of the प्रशासन.
The कांड escalated, costing Nixon much of his political support, और on अगस्त 9, 1974, he resigned in the फेस of almost certain महाभियोग और हटाना इससे दफ्तर.
After उसके resignation, he controversially received a pardon जारी by his successor, जेराल्ड घाट.
in रिटायरमेंट, Nixon 's कार्य as an elder statesman, authoring several books और undertaking अनेक विदेशी trips, helped to rehabilitate his पब्लिक image.
He suffered a debilitating स्ट्रोक on April 18, 1994, and died four दिनों बाद at the आयु of 81.
Sertraline hydrochloride ( trade names Zoloft, lustral ) is an antidepressant of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( ssri ) क्लास.
It was introduced to the market by Pfizer in 1991.
Sertraline is primarily prescribed for प्रमुख depressive disorder in adult outpatients as well as obsessive–compulsive, panic, और social anxiety विकार in दोनो adults और children.
In 2011, it was the second-most prescribed antidepressant on the u.S. retail market, with 37,208,000 prescriptions.
The efficacy of sertraline for अवसाद is similar to कि of older tricyclic antidepressants, लकिन its side effects हैं much कम pronounced.
Differences with newer antidepressants हैं subtler and also ज़्यादातर confined to पक्ष प्रभाव.
Evidence suggests that sertraline may work better than fluoxetine ( Prozac ) लिये कुछ subtypes of depression.
Treatment of panic disorder साथ sertraline results in a significant decrease of the क्रमांक of panic attacks और in improved quality of जीवन.
For obsessive-compulsive विकार, sertraline is नहीं as effective as cognitive behavioral therapy ; the best परिणाम have been achieved by combining these दो treatments.
हालांकि स्वीकृत for social phobia and posttraumatic stress विकार, sertraline leads to तभी modest सुधार in these conditions.
sertraline भी alleviates the symptoms of premenstrual dysphoric disorder and can be used in sub-therapeutic doses or intermittently for its उपचार.
sertraline shares the आम पक्ष effects and contraindications of other SSRIs, with high दरों of मतली, अतिसार, insomnia, and sexual side effects ; however, it करता नहीं cause weight लाभ, and its effects on both cognition and vigilance are relatively mild.
In pregnant women taking sertraline, the drug थी present in significant concentrations in fetal blood, and was भी associated with a higher रेट of various जनम defects.
Similarly to other antidepressants, the use of sertraline for depression may be associated with a higher rate of suicidality.
The पाँच heartbeats is a 1991 musical drama film directed by रॉबर्ट टाउनसेंड, जो co-wrote the script with keenan Ivory Wayans.
Distributed by 20th Century फॉक्स, the फिल्मी 's main डाल includes टाउनसेंड, Michael Wright, Leon Robinson, Harry J. lennix, tico कुएं, Harold Nicholas of the Nicholas Brothers, and Diahann Carroll.
the प्लाट of the फिल्मी ( which is loosely based on the lives of अनेक कलाकारों : The Dells, the Temptations, चार Tops, Wilson Pickett, James भूरा, Frankie lymon, Sam Cooke और अन्य ) follows the three decade career of the r & b vocal समूह the पाँच heartbeats.
The film depicts the rise and fall of a motown inspired आत्मा अधिनियम through the आँखें of the film 's main समर्थक, Donald `` Duck '' matthews ( portrayed by टाउनसेंड ), who serves as a narrator throughout the film.
however, a majority of the cinema is प्रस्तुत in a consecutive समय लकीर as opposed to traditional फ्लैश backs.
the film includes a significant amount of असली music conceived by various artists for the film 's साउंडट्रैक, including singles such as `` a दिल Is a House लिये Love ``, `` We Have n't Finished yet '', and `` nothing But प्रेम ''.
the film was released to सबसे North American audiences March 29, 1991 however it थी not made available to audiences in other continents until 2002 when a DVD was released prior to another DVD release in 2006 लिये the फिल्मी 's 15th anniversary.
the movie received mixed समीक्षाएँ from critics.
Secretariat ( March 30, 1970 – October 4, 1989 ) थी an American Thoroughbred racehorse कि in 1973 became the first U.S. Triple Crown champion in 25 सालो.
He set रेस रिकॉर्ड in सब three कार्यक्रम in the श्रेणी — the Kentucky डर्बी ( 1:59.4 ), the Preakness stakes ( 1:53 ), और the belmont Stakes ( 2:24 ) — records that still stand आज.
He is माना to be one of the greatest Thoroughbreds of सब समय.
In 1999, ESPN क्रमित Secretariat the 35th best खिलाड़ी of the 20th century, the उच्चतम ranking racehorse on the list URL_http.
He ranked दूसरी behind Man o ' War in The blood-horse 's सूची of the Top 100 U.S. racehorses of the 20th Century.
सचिवालय was sired by Bold शासक out of Somethingroyal, by princequillo.
He थी foaled at the Meadow in कैरोलीन County, Virginia.
Like उसके famous पूर्ववर्ती Man o ' युद्ध, Secretariat was a विशाल chestnut टट्टू and थी दिए the same उपनाम, `` Big Red. ''
सचिवालय 's grandsire, Nasrullah, is भी the great-great-grandsire of 1977 ट्रिपल Crown winner सिएटल Slew.
Owned by Penny Chenery, he थी trained by lucien laurin और mainly ridden by कनाडाई jockey Ron Turcotte, साथ with apprentice jockey Paul Feliciano ( पहला दो दौड़ ), and दिग्गज एडी मेपल ( last race ).
he raced in chenery 's Meadow Stable 's ब्लू और श्वेत checkered colors and his दूल्हे was एडी Sweat.
Secretariat stood लगभग लम्बा, and weighed, साथ a 75-inch girth, in उसके racing prime.
A ठेठ 12 V, 40 ah lead-acid car बैटरी
an automotive बैटरी is a type of rechargeable battery कि supplies electric energy to an automobile.
Usually this refers to an SLI बैटरी ( starting, lighting, ignition ) to शक्ति the starter motor, the लाइट्स, and the प्रज्वलन system of a vehicle’s engine.
ऑटोमोटिव SLI बैटरी are usually lead-acid प्रकार, and हैं बना of six गैल्वानी कोशिकाएं in series to provide a 12 वोल्ट system.
प्रत्येक cell provides 2.1 volts for a total of 12.6 वोल्ट at पूरा चार्ज.
Heavy vehicles ऐसे as राजमार्ग ट्रक or tractors, प्रायः equipped with diesel इंजन, may have दो batteries in series लिये a 24 वोल्ट system, or may have parallel strings of batteries.
lead-acid batteries are made up of प्लेटों of सीसे and पृथक plates of सीसे dioxide, which हैं submerged into an electrolyte solution of about 38 % sulfuric एसिड and 62 % जल.
इस कल्याणकारी a chemical reaction कि releases electrons, allowing them to flow through conductors to produce electricity.
As the battery discharges, the एसिड of the electrolyte reacts with the सामग्री of the plates, changing their सतह to सीसे sulfate.
When the battery is recharged, the chemical प्रतिक्रिया is reversed : the lead sulfate reforms into सीसे डाइऑक्साइड and सीसे.
साथ the plates restored to उनके original कंडीशन, the प्रक्रम may now be repeated.
बैटरी रीसाइक्लिंग of ऑटोमोटिव batteries reduces the need लिये resources required for manufacture of नई batteries, diverts toxic सीसे इससे landfills, and रोकता risk of improper disposal.
Full-time employment is नियुक्ति in which a व्यक्ति works a न्यूनतम number of hours defined as such by his/her नियोक्ता.
full-time employment often आता साथ लाभ that हैं not typically offered to part-time, temporary, or flexible workers, such as annual छोड़, sickleave, and health बीमे.
Full-time jobs हैं प्रायः माना careers.
They generally pay more than part-time jobs, and usually carry अधिक घंटों per सप्ताह.
The Fair Labor मानकों Act ( FLSA ) करता नहीं define full-time नियुक्ति or part-time नियुक्ति.
This is a पदार्थ generally to be determined by the employer ( US विभाग of मजदूर ).
the परिभाषा by employer can vary और is generally published in a company 's Employee हैंडबुक.
कंपनियाँ commonly require इससे 30–35 or 40 घंटों per सप्ताह to be defined as full-time and इसलिए योग्य for लाभ.
full-time status varies between कम्पनी and is often based on the शिफ़्ट the कर्मचारी जरूर work during प्रत्येक work सप्ताह.
the `` standard '' कार्य week consists of five eight-hour दिनों, commonly परोसा between 9:00am to 5:00PM totaling 40 hours.
जबकि a four-day week generally consists of four ten-hour days ; it may भी consist of as little as nine hours for a total of a 36 घंटा कार्य week.
twelve-hour shifts are often three दिनों per week, unless the company रै the इरादे of paying आउट the employee overtime.
Overtime is legally paid आउट anytime an कर्मचारी works अधिक than 40 hours per week.
The विधिक minimum लिये overtime starts at आधार Pay + One-Half.
the increased payout is considered to compensate थोड़ा for the increased थकान जिससे a person experiences on such long शिफ्ट.
Shifts can also be very irregular, as in retail, but are स्टिल full-time if the जरूरी क्रमांक of hours is reached.
वहीँ हैं some परिस्थितियों जहाँ a व्यक्ति जो needs full-time work is dropped to part-time, which is sometimes a रूप of constructive dismissal to avoid paying unemployment benefits to a laid-off worker.
seahorse is the शीर्षक दिए to 54 species of समुद्री fish in the genus Hippocampus.
`` Hippocampus '' comes इससे the प्राचीन Greek hippos meaning `` घोड़ा '' and kampos meaning `` समुद्र monster ''.
the नियंत्रित Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the कॉंग्रेस of the संयुक्त राज्य as Title II of the Comprehensive Drug गाली रोकथाम and Control Act of 1970.
the CSA is the federal u.S. drug नीति under which the manufacture, importation, कब्ज़ा, use and distribution of certain substances is regulated.
the Act also served as the नेशनल implementing विधान for the सिंगल Convention on narcotic Drugs.
the legislation निर्मित five Schedules ( classifications ), साथ varying योग्यता for a substance to be included in each.
Two federal agencies, the Drug प्रवर्तन Administration and the Food और ड्रग Administration, determine जिससे substances are added to or removed from the various schedules, though the statute passed by कॉंग्रेस निर्मित the आरंभिक लिस्टिंग, and Congress has sometimes अनुसूचित other substances through legislation such as the hillory J. farias और Samantha Reid Date-Rape Prevention Act of 2000, जिससे placed गामा hydroxybutyrate in अनुसूची i. Classification decisions are जरूरी to be made on मापदण्ड including संभावित for abuse ( an undefined term ), currently accepted चिकित्सा use in treatment in the United States, and अंतरराष्ट्रीय treaties.
Maya numerals
माया numerals are a vigesimal ( base - बीस ) numeral system used by the Pre-Columbian Maya civilization.
the numerals are made up of तीन प्रतीकों ; zero ( shell shape ), one ( a dot ) और पाँच ( a bar ).
For example, तेरह is लिखा as three dots in a आड़ा row above दो आड़ा lines stacked above प्रत्येक अन्य.
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( अगस्त 27, 1908 – January 22, 1973 ), प्रायः referred to as LBJ, थी the 36th अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य ( 1963–1969 ), a स्थिति he assumed बाद उसके सेवा as the 37th Vice अध्यक्ष of the United States ( 1961–1963 ).
He is एक of तभी चार people who served in सब चार निर्वाचित federal कार्यालयों of the United States : प्रतिनिधि, सीनेटर, Vice President, और अध्यक्ष.
Johnson, a डेमोक्रेट इससे Texas, परोसा as a संयुक्त राज्य प्रतिनिधि इससे 1937–1949 and as a Senator इससे 1949–1961, including six years as संयुक्त States Senate Majority Leader, two as सीनेट अल्पसंख्यक Leader and दो as सीनेट बहुमत चाबुक.
After campaigning unsuccessfully लिये the लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन in 1960, Johnson was पूछा by जॉन F. कैनेडी to be उसके कार्यशील mate लिये the 1960 अध्यक्षीय election.
Johnson succeeded to the प्रेसिडेंसी following the assassination of जॉन F. Kennedy on November 22, 1963, completed Kennedy 's पद और थी elected President in his own right, जीतना by a large हाशिया over Barry goldwater in the 1964 election.
जॉनसन थी greatly supported by the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी and as President, he थी जिम्मेदार for designing the `` ग्रेट Society `` legislation that included कानून कि upheld civil rights, public प्रसारण, medicare, Medicaid, पर्यावरणीय protection, सहायता to education, and his `` युद्ध on गरीबी. ''
Johnson was प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके domineering personality and the `` जॉनसन treatment, '' his coercion of powerful राजनेता in order to अग्रिम legislation.
meanwhile, Johnson escalated American involvement in the Vietnam War, from 16,000 अमरीकी advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 कॉम्बैट सैनिकों in early 1968, as अमरीकी casualties soared and the सलाम process bogged down.
The भागीदारी stimulated a विशाल एंग्री antiwar गति आधारित especially on university campuses in the U.S. and विदेश.
Summer दंगे broke out in सबसे major cities after 1965, और crime rates soared, as his प्रतिद्वंद्वियों उठाया demands for `` विधि and order '' नीतियों.
the Democratic Party विभाजित in multiple feuding गिरोहों, and after Johnson did poorly in the 1968 New हैम्पशायर प्राथमिक, he ended उसके bid लिये reelection.
Republican रिचर्ड निक्सन was निर्वाचित to सफल उसे.
Historians argue कि Johnson 's presidency marked the शिखर of modern liberalism in the संयुक्त States after the नई सौदे era.
Johnson is क्रमित favorably by some इतिहासकारों because of his domestic policies.
प्रोजेस्टेरोन भी known as p4 ( pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione ) is a C-21 स्टेरॉयड hormone involved in the female menstrual cycle, pregnancy ( supports gestation ) और embryogenesis of इंसानो और other species.
Progesterone belongs to a क्लास of hormones called progestogens, और is the major naturally occurring human progestogen.
Big बर्ड is a protagonist of the children 's television show Sesame गली.
Officially performed by Caroll spinney since 1969, he is an eight-foot two-inch ( 249 cm ) tall उज्जवल primrose-yellow bird.
He can रोलर skate, ice skate, dance, sing, write poetry, चित्रण and even सवारी a unicycle.
But despite this wide array of talents, he is prone to बारंबार misunderstandings, on one occasion even singing the alphabet as एक big long शब्द ( इससे the song called `` ABC-DEF-GHI, '' pronounced `` ab-keddef-gajihkel-monop-quristuv-wixyz '' ), pondering कया it could कभी mean.
He जीवनदान in a विशाल nest behind the 123 तिल गली brownstone and रै a teddy भालू named Radar.
webtrends is a private company headquartered in पोर्टलैंड, ऑरेगॉन, United States.
It provides वेब, सोशल, and मोबाईल analytics और other software solutions related to marketing intelligence.
the company was founded in 1993 and अभी serves more than 10,000 large and small कड़s. < ref name='intelligent Enterprise 2007-05-21 ' >
the दूसरी crusade ( 1145–1149 ) was the second major crusade launched from Europe.
the Second crusade was प्रारंभ in जवाब to the पतन of the County of Edessa the previous year to the शक्तियां of Zengi.
The county था been founded during the पहला Crusade ( 1096–1099 ) by Baldwin of Boulogne in 1098.
जबकि it was the first जेहादी राज्य to be संस्थापित, it थी also the first to पतन.
the Second crusade थी announced by पोप Eugene III, and was the first of the crusades to be led by European kings, namely लुई VII of France और Conrad III of जर्मनी, with सहायता from a क्रमांक of अन्य European nobles.
The armies of the दो kings marched separately across यूरोपीय.
बाद क्रासिंग बीज़ान्टिन territory into आनातोलिया, both armies were separately पराजित by the Seljuq turks.
The main Western ईसाई सोर्स, odo of Deuil, और Syriac Christian स्त्रोत claim that the Byzantine emperor Manuel i Comnenus secretly hindered the crusaders ' progress, particularly in आनातोलिया where he is कथित to have deliberately ordered turks to attack them.
Louis and कोनराड and the remnants of उनके armies reached Jerusalem और, in 1148, participated in an ill-advised attack on Damascus.
The crusade in the east was a failure for the crusaders and a great victory for the Muslims.
It would ultimately have a key influence on the पतन of Jerusalem and give rise to the तीसरा Crusade at the समाप्त of the 12th सदी.
the only कामयाबी of the Second crusade came to a combined फ़ोर्स of 13,000 फ्लेमिश, Frisian, Norman, अंग्रेज़ी, स्कॉटिश, और जर्मनी crusaders in 1147.
यात्राएं from England, by ship, to the Holy Land, the army रोका और helped the smaller ( 7,000 ) Portuguese फौज in the कैप्चर of Lisbon, expelling its Moorish occupants.
wal-mart Stores, Inc. ( ), branded as Walmart, is an American multinational retail निगम that रनों chains of विशाल discount विभाग स्टोर्स और गोदाम stores.
the company is the world 's third largest public corporation, according to the सौभाग्य Global 500 list in 2012, the biggest private employer in the संसार with over दो million employees, and is the largest retailer in the world.
Walmart remains a family-owned business, as the company is controlled by the Walton परिवार, जो own a 48 percent stake in walmart.
it is also one of the world 's most valuable companies.
The company was founded by sam Walton in 1962, incorporated on October 31, 1969, and सरेआम traded on the नई यॉर्क Stock Exchange in 1972.
It is headquartered in Bentonville, अरकंसास.
Walmart is भी the largest किराना retailer in the United States.
In 2009, it generated 51 percent of इसके us $ 258 billion sales in the U.S. from grocery कारोबार.
It भी owns और operates the Sam 's Club खुदरा warehouses in North America.
by 1988, Wal-Mart was the most profitable रिटेलर in the us, और by नवम्बर 1990, it outsold k-mart.
by 1991 it outsold सियर्स in खुदरा, बनाना it अमेरिका 's largest retailer, a distinction it still holds.
walmart has 8,500 stores in 15 देशों, अंतर्गत 55 different names.
The कम्पनी operates under the Walmart name in the United States, including the 50 states and प्यूर्टो रीको.
it operates in Mexico as Walmex, in the संयुक्त Kingdom as asda, in जापानी as seiyu, and in India as बेहतरीन Price.
It has wholly owned परिचालन in Argentina, Brazil, and कनाडा.
walmart 's investments outside उत्तर America have had mixed results : its operations in the United Kingdom, South अमेरिका, and China are अत्यधिक कामयाब, whereas ventures in Germany and दक्षिण कोरियाई यहूद unsuccessful.
Robert William Gary मूर ( 4 April 1952 – 6 February 2011 ), was a Northern Irish संगीतकार, most widely recognised as a singer and guitarist.
In a करियर dating वापस to the 1960s, Moore निभाई with artists including Phil lynott and ब्रायन Downey during his teens, leading him to memberships with the Irish bands Skid पंक्ति and पतला Lizzy on three पृथक अवसरों.
Moore साझा the stage साथ such blues and rock luminaries as b.b. King, Albert King, कोलोसियम ii, George Harrison और Greg झील, as खूब as having a successful solo करियर.
he guested on a क्रमांक of albums अंकित by high profile musicians, including a कैमियो appearance playing the lead गिटार solo on `` She 's my baby `` इससे traveling Wilburys आवाज़. 3.
An example of रैक आरोहित servers
a web hosting service is a type of Internet hosting सेवा that allows individuals and organizations to make उनके website accessible via the World Wide Web.
Web होस्ट हैं कंपनियाँ that provide space on a server owned or leased for use by clients, as well as providing Internet कनेक्टिविटी, typically in a data बीच.
Web होस्ट can also provide data center स्पेस और connectivity to the Internet for other सर्वर स्तिथ in उनके data center, पुकारा colocation, भी known as Housing in Latin America or France.
the scope of web होस्टिंग services varies greatly.
the सबसे basic is web page and small-scale file होस्टिंग, where फाइलें can be uploaded via संचिका Transfer Protocol ( FTP ) or a Web interface.
The files are usually delivered to the Web `` as is '' or साथ minimal processing.
Many अंतरजाल service providers ( ISPs ) offer this service free to सदस्य.
individuals और संगठन may भी obtain वेब page hosting from वैकल्पिक service providers.
निजी वेब साईट hosting is typically free, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
Business वेब साईट hosting often has a उच्चतर expense depending upon the size और type of the जालस्थल.
Single page hosting is generally sufficient for निजी वेब पृष्ठों.
a complex site काल्स लिये a अधिक comprehensive package that provides डेटाबेस support and application development platforms ( e.g. पीएचपी, जावा, माणिक्य on Rails, ColdFusion, or ASP.NET ).
ये facilities allow customers to लिखें or install स्क्रिप्ट for अनुप्रयोग जैसे forums and content प्रबन्धन.
भी, Secure sockets परत ( एसएसएल ) is typically used for e-commerce.
The host may also provide an interface or control panel for managing the Web सर्वर और installing scripts, as खूब as other मौड्यूल और service applications like e-mail.
Some होस्ट specialize in निश्चित तन्त्र or सेवाएं ( e.g. e-commerce ), जिससे हैं commonly प्रयुक्त by larger companies कि outsource संजाल infrastructure.
Obstetrics ( from the लैटिन obstare, `` to stand by '' ) is the medical specialty dealing साथ the care of all women 's reproductive tracts और their children during गर्भावस्था ( prenatal period ), childbirth and the postnatal period.
Many obstetricians are also gynecologists, meaning they perform in both specialties.
In the संयुक्त States, these physicians are commonly referred to as OB/GYNs.
the Wright brothers, Orville ( August 19, 1871 – January 30, 1948 ) and Wilbur ( अप्रैल 16, 1867 – may 30, 1912 ), were two अमरीकी भाइयो, आविष्कारक, और विमानन pioneers who were credited with inventing और building the संसार 's first successful वायुयान और making the पहला controlled, संचालित and sustained heavier-than-air इंसान flight, on December 17, 1903.
इससे 1905 to 1907, the भाइयो विकसित उनके flying machine into the पहला व्यावहारिक fixed-wing वायुयान.
Although not the पहला to build and मक्खी प्रायोगिक aircraft, the Wright भाइयो यहूद the पहला to invent वायुयान नियंत्रण that made fixed-wing powered flight possible.
The brothers ' fundamental भेदन थी their आविष्कार of three-axis control, which enabled the पायलट to steer the aircraft effectively and to maintain its equilibrium.
This method became standard और remains standard on fixed-wing aircraft of सब kinds.
इससे the beginning of their aeronautical work, the Wright भाइयो केन्द्रित on developing a विश्वसनीय method of pilot control as the key to solving `` the उड़ती प्रॉब्लम ''.
इस approach differed significantly from other experimenters of the time who put अधिक emphasis on विकासशील शक्तिशाली engines.
Using a small homebuilt wind टनल, the wrights also एकत्रित more सटीक data than कोई पहले, enabling उन्हें to design and निर्माण विंग्स और propellers कि were अधिक कुशल than कोई before.
Their first u.S. पेटेंट, 821,393, did not अर्जी invention of a flying machine, but बल्कि, the आविष्कार of a system of aerodynamic कंट्रोल that manipulated a flying यंत्र 's सतहों.
They gained the mechanical कौशल essential for their success by working for years in their दूकान साथ printing दबाता, साइकिल, motors, और other machinery.
Their work साथ साइकिल in particular influenced their belief कि an unstable गाडी like a उड़ती machine could be नियंत्रित और संतुलित with practice.
इससे 1900 until their first powered फ़्लाइट in लेट 1903, वे conducted extensive glider tests that also developed उनके skills as pilots.
उनके bicycle shop कर्मचारी Charlie Taylor became an महत्वपूर्ण part of the team, building their first aircraft इंजन in close सहयोग with the brothers.
The राइट brothers ' status as inventors of the वायुयान रै महरूम विषय to counter-claims by various parties.
much controversy persists over the अनेक स्पर्धा claims of जल्दी aviators.
America 's अगला Top Model, Cycle 12 is the बारहवीं cycle of America 's अगला शीर्ष मॉडल and the sixth ऋतु to air on The CW network.
It premiered on March 4, 2009.
the साईकिल 's catch phrase is `` Get in the Fold. ''
The cycle 's promotional song is Lady Gaga 's `` the Fame ''.
the पुरस्कार for इस cycle are:
a मॉडलिंग अनुबंध with elite Model Management.
A फ़ैशन spread and cover in Seventeen.
a 100,000 अनुबंध साथ CoverGirl cosmetics.
The first हाफ of the cycle took प्लेस in New York City, moving the दिखाएँ back इससे Los Angeles last season.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय destination for इस cycle is são Paulo, Brazil, the series first visit to दक्षिण America.
The number of girls was reduced to 13, the first time since साईकिल 9, after being maintained at 14 in the last two cycles.
This थी the last समय Paulina Porizkova participated as judge.
the विजेता was 20-year-old Teyona Anderson from woodstown, New जर्सी.
इस season averaged 4.35 million दर्शक per episode.
Exxon mobil Corporation, or exxonmobil, is an American multinational oil and gas निगम headquartered in इरविंग, टेक्सास, संयुक्त States.
it is a direct descendant of John D. rockefeller 's Standard Oil कम्पनी, and was formed on नवम्बर 30, 1999, by the merger of Exxon and Mobil.
It is affiliated with इम्पीरियल आयल which operates in कनाडा.
ExxonMobil is the world 's largest कम्पनी by revenue और in 2013, became the largest publicly traded कम्पनी by मार्केट capitalization in the संसार.
the कम्पनी is ranked # 5 globally in Forbes वैश्विक 2000 list in 2013.
exxon mobil 's reserves यहूद 72 billion oil-equivalent barrels at the समाप्त of 2007 and, at then ( 2007 ) rates of production, हैं अपेक्षित to पिछला over 14 years.
With 37 आयल refineries in 21 देशों constituting a संयुक्त daily refining क्षमता of, exxon Mobil is the largest refiner in the world, a title that थी also associated with Standard आयल since इसके incorporation in 1870.
exxonmobil is the largest of the world 's supermajors साथ daily production of 3.921 लाख BOE ( barrels of आयल समतुल्य ).
In 2008, this was approximately 3 % of world production, which is less than several of the largest state-owned petroleum कंपनियाँ.
When ranked by आयल और gas reserves it is 14th in the world with कम than 1 % of the total.
a 2012 article in The रोज़ टेलीग्राफ says that ExxonMobil रै `` grown into one of the planet’s most hated corporations, समर्थ to determine American foreign policy and the fate of entire राष्ट्र ''.
in terms of इसके environmental record, exxonmobil increasingly drills in terrains leased to them by dictatorships, such as those in chad and Equatorial गिनी.
ली रेमंड, the corporation’s chief executive जबतक 2005, was `` notoriously sceptical परिचय climate change and disliked government interference at कोई स्तर ''.
The कम्पनी थी widely criticized for इसके slow जवाब to सफ़ाई its 1989 Valdez आयल spill in Alaska.
इस आलेख is about the ग्लोब Theatre of शेक्सपियर.
लिये the modern पुनर्निर्माण in London, देखिए Shakespeare 's Globe.
लिये अन्य uses, देखिए ग्लोब Theatre ( बहुविकल्पी ).
The ग्लोब थिएटर was a थिएटर in लंदन संबद्ध साथ विलियम Shakespeare.
It थी निर्मित in 1599 by शेक्सपियर 's playing कम्पनी, the Lord Chamberlain 's Men, on land स्वामित्व by Thomas Brend और inherited by उसके son, Nicholas Brend and grandson सर Matthew Brend, and थी destroyed by आग on 29 जून 1613.
A दूसरी Globe थिएटर was built on the same साईट by जून 1614 और closed in 1642.
A modern reconstruction of the Globe, named `` शेक्सपियर 's Globe ``, opened in 1997 लगभग इससे the साईट of the original थिएटर.
it 's a Wonderful Life is a 1946 American क्रिसमस drama फिल्मी produced और directed by फ़्रैंक Capra, based on the short स्टोरी `` the Greatest Gift ``, which Philip Van doren stern wrote in 1939 and privately published in 1945.
The film is considered one of the सबसे loved films in American cinema and has become traditional viewing during the Christmas ऋतु, alongside लोकप्रिय क्लासिक such as Charles डिकेंस ' A Christmas कैरोल.
The फिल्मी stars जेम्स Stewart as जार्ज Bailey, a man who रै given up उसके सपनो in अनुक्रम to help अन्य और whose imminent suicide on Christmas Eve brings परिचय the हस्तक्षेप of his guardian angel, Clarence odbody ( Henry Travers ).
Clarence shows जार्ज सब the lives he has touched और how अलग life in his जातियाँ of bedford Falls would be had he never been born.
despite initially performing poorly at the बक्सा office due to ऊँची production costs and stiff प्रतियोगिता at the time of इसके release, the film रै come to be regarded as a classic और is a स्टेपल of क्रिसमस television around the संसार.
Theatrically, the film 's break-even point थी actually $ 6.3 million, approximately twice the production लागत, a फिगर it never came close to achieving in इसके आरंभिक रिलीज.
An appraisal in 2006 reported : `` Although it was not the पूरा बक्सा office विफलता that today everyone मानता... it was initially a major disappointment and confirmed, at least to the studios, कि Capra was no longer capable of turning out the populist features that बना his films the must-see, money-making कार्यक्रम they once were. ''
The film was nominated लिये पाँच Oscars and रै been पहचाना by the American Film संस्थान as एक of the 100 best American films ever बना, placing number 11 on its आरंभिक 1998 greatest फिल्म list, and होता also place number one on इसके सूची of the सबसे inspirational American films of all time.
Data Warehouse अवलोकन
In कम्प्यूटिंग, a आंकड़ा warehouse or enterprise आंकड़ा गोदाम ( DW, DWH, or EDW ) is a database प्रयुक्त for reporting and data विश्लेषण.
It is a सेंट्रल repository of data which is created by integrating आंकड़ा इससे one or अधिक disparate स्त्रोत.
Data warehouses store current as खूब as historical data and are used लिये creating trending reports लिये वरिष्ठ प्रबन्धन रिपोर्टिंग ऐसे as सालाना and quarterly comparisons.
the आंकड़ा stored in the गोदाम are uploaded from the operational systems ( ऐसे as विपणन, sales etc., shown in the figure to the सही ).
The data may pass through an operational आंकड़ा स्टोर for अतिरिक्त operations before वे are प्रयुक्त in the DW लिये reporting.
The typical etl -based data गोदाम uses staging, आंकड़ा संयोजन, और access परतों to हाउस its key functions.
The staging परत or staging डेटाबेस stores raw data extracted इससे प्रत्येक of the disparate source आंकड़ा systems.
the integration layer integrates the disparate आंकड़ा sets by transforming the आंकड़ा from the स्टेजिंग layer often storing इस रूपांतरित आंकड़ा in an operational data स्टोर ( ODS ) डेटाबेस.
The एकीकृत data are then स्थानांतरित to yet another डेटाबेस, often called the data warehouse database, जहाँ the data is arranged into hierarchical groups often called dimensions and into facts और aggregate facts.
The संयोजन of facts and dimensions is sometimes पुकारा a star schema.
the अभिगम परत helps users retrieve data.
a आंकड़ा गोदाम constructed from an एकीकृत data सोर्स systems does नहीं आवश्यकता ETL, staging databases, or operational data store databases.
The integrated आंकड़ा source systems may be माना to be a part of a वितरित operational data स्टोर परत.
Data federation विधि or आंकड़ा virtualization methods may be used to access the वितरित integrated source data systems to consolidate and aggregate data सीधे into the data गोदाम database tables.
नापसंद the ETL-based data warehouse, the integrated सोर्स आंकड़ा systems और the data warehouse are all integrated since there is no transformation of आयामी or reference data.
This एकीकृत आंकड़ा गोदाम architecture supports the drill down from the कुल आंकड़ा of the आंकड़ा गोदाम to the transactional data of the एकीकृत source data systems.
आंकड़ा warehouses can be subdivided into data marts.
आंकड़ा marts स्टोर subsets of आंकड़ा from a warehouse.
This परिभाषा of the data warehouse focuses on आंकड़ा storage.
the प्रमुख सोर्स of the आंकड़ा is cleaned, transformed, cataloged and made available for use by managers and अन्य कारोबार पेशेवर लिये data mining, online analytical processing, मार्केट research और decision support ( marakas & O'Brien 2009 ).
however, the अर्थात् to retrieve and analyze आंकड़ा, to निकालें, transform और load आंकड़ा, और to manage the आंकड़ा शब्दकोष are भी considered essential components of a आंकड़ा warehousing system.
Many references to data warehousing use this broader कॉन्टेक्स्ट.
Thus, an विस्तारित definition for आंकड़ा warehousing शामिल कारोबार intelligence टूल्स, टूल्स to निकालें, रूपांतरण and लोड data into the repository, and tools to मैनेज and retrieve metadata.
पोर्टलैंड stone quarry on the आइल of Portland, England
An abandoned construction कुल quarry near Adelaide, South Australia
a quarry is a type of open-pit मेरा from which चट्टान or खनिज are extracted.
खदानों हैं generally प्रयुक्त for extracting building सामग्री, ऐसे as आयाम stone, construction कुल, riprap, बालू, और बजरी.
They are often collocated with concrete and asphalt पौधे due to the requirement for विशाल amounts of aggregate in those materials.
खोलें खानों कि produce खनिज are typically referred to as open pit mines.
The word पाषाण can include underground quarrying for stone, such as नहाना stone.
Mormons ( ) are a religious और सांस्कृतिक group सम्बन्धित to mormonism, the principal शाखा of the Latter Day Saint movement of Restorationist Christianity, which began with the visions of जोसेफ Smith in upstate नई York during the 1820s.
After स्मिथ 's मौत in 1844 the Mormons followed Brigham यंग to what would become the यूटा territory.
Today Mormons हैं understood to be members of The गिरिजाघर of Jesus मसीह of Latter-day Saints ( lds गिरिजाघर ).
Some mormons are भी either स्वतंत्र or non-practicing.
the center of mormon सांस्कृतिक influence is in यूटा, and उत्तर America has more Mormons than any other continent, though the बहुमत of mormons live बाहर the संयुक्त States.
Mormons have developed a दमदार sense of communality that तना इससे their doctrine और history.
दौरान the 19th सदी mormon converts tended to एकत्रित to a central geographic स्थान, और between 1852 and 1890 a अल्पसंख्यक of Mormons openly practiced बहुवचन marriage, a form of religious polygamy.
mormons dedicate large amounts of time और resources to serving in their गिरिजाघर, and अनेक young Mormons चुनें to serve a full-time proselytizing mission.
Mormons have a health code that eschews alcoholic पेय, tobacco, कॉफी, tea, और other addictive substances.
They tend to be very family-oriented, and have strong connections across generations and साथ विस्तारित family, reflective of their belief that families can be sealed together परे मौत and throughout शाश्वत.
Mormons भी have a सख्त law of chastity, requiring abstention from sexual संबंध outside of विवाह और सख्त वफ़ादारी भीतर marriage.
mormons self-identify as ईसाई, हालांकि some of उनके मान्यताओं differ from mainstream christianity.
Mormons believe in the Bible, as well as अन्य किताबे of scripture, ऐसे as the किताब of Mormon.
They have a अद्वितीय view of cosmology, and मानना कि all लोगों are spirit-children of God.
Mormons believe that returning to God requires following the उदाहरण of Jesus Christ, and accepting his atonement through ordinances such as बपतिस्मा.
They मानना कि मसीह 's church थी restored through जोसेफ स्मिथ, और is हिदायत by living नबियों और रसूलों.
Central to mormon faith is the belief कि परमेश्वर speaks to his children और answers उनके प्रार्थनाएं.
In वित्तीय accounting, एसेट हैं आर्थिक resources.
Anything ठोस or intangible कि is सक्षम of होने owned or नियंत्रित to उपज मान and that is आयोजित to have धनात्मक आर्थिक value is considered an asset.
बस stated, एसेट represent value of ownership that can be परिवर्तित into cash ( although cash itself is also माना an एसेट ).
the balance sheet of a firm रिकॉर्ड the monetaryJ.
G. siegel, N. Dauber & J. K. Shim, `` the Vest Pocket cpa '', Wiley, 2005.There are different methods of assessing the मौद्रिक मान of the एसेट recorded on the संतुलन Sheet.
in some cases, the Historical लागत is प्रयुक्त ; ऐसे that the value of the एसेट जब it थी खरीदा in the past is प्रयुक्त as the monetary value.
In अन्य instances, the present मेला market value of the asset is used to determine the value shown on the balance sheet.
value of the assets owned by the कड़.
It is धन और अन्य valuables belonging to an individual or business.
दो major asset वर्ग are ठोस assets and intangible assets.
ठोस एसेट contain विभिन्न subclasses, including current assets and fixed assets.J.
Downes, J.E. Goodman, `` Dictionary of वित्त & Investment Terms '', Baron 's Financial Guides, 2003 वर्तमान एसेट include inventory, while fixed assets include ऐसे वस्तुएं as buildings और उपकरण.J. Downes, j.e. Goodman, `` Dictionary of Finance & Investment Terms '', Baron 's Financial मार्गदर्शिका, 2003 ; and J. G. Siegel, N. Dauber & J. K. Shim, `` The बनियान जेब CPA '', Wiley, 2005.
Intangible एसेट हैं nonphysical संसाधन and rights that have a मान to the firm because they दे the firm some दयालु of advantage in the मार्केट place.
Examples of intangible एसेट are साख, copyrights, trademarks, patents and कंप्यूटर programs, and वित्तीय assets, including ऐसे items as खाते receivable, bonds और स्टॉक्स.
A neuron ( or ; भी known as a neurone or nerve cell ) is an electrically excitable cell कि processes और transmits सूचना through electrical and chemical सिग्नल.
a chemical signal occurs via a synapse, a specialized connection with अन्य cells.
न्यूरॉन्स कनेक्ट to each other to रूप neural संजाल.
न्यूरॉन्स हैं the कोर components of the nervous system, which शामिल the दिमाग, स्पाइनल cord, और peripheral ganglia.
A क्रमांक of specialized types of न्यूरॉन्स exist : sensory न्यूरॉन्स respond to touch, sound, लाइट और numerous other stimuli affecting cells of the sensory अंगों that then send सिग्नल to the स्पाइनल cord and दिमाग.
Motor neurons प्राप्त signals from the brain और स्पाइनल cord, cause muscle contractions, और affect ग्रंथियों.
Interneurons connect न्यूरॉन्स to अन्य न्यूरॉन्स within the वही region of the brain or spinal cord.
A ठेठ neuron possesses a cell body ( प्रायः called the सोम ), dendrites, and an axon.
Dendrites हैं पतला structures कि उठता इससे the cell body, often extending लिये सैंकड़ों of micrometres और branching अनेक times, giving वृद्धि to a जटिल `` dendritic पेड़ ''.
an axon is a खास cellular extension that arises from the cell body at a साईट called the axon उभरकर and travels for a distance, as दूर as 1 meter in humans or even more in अन्य species.
the cell body of a न्यूरॉन frequently देता rise to multiple dendrites, but never to अधिक than एक axon, although the axon may शाखा hundreds of times before it terminates.
at the majority of synapses, सिग्नल are sent from the axon of एक neuron to a dendrite of another.
There हैं, however, many exceptions to ये नियम : न्यूरॉन्स कि कमी dendrites, neurons that have no axon, synapses कि कनेक्ट an axon to another axon or a dendrite to another dendrite, etc.
All न्यूरॉन्स are electrically excitable, maintaining voltage gradients across their membranes by means of metabolically चलित ion pumps, which combine साथ ion channels embedded in the membrane to generate intracellular-versus-extracellular विशेषज्ञता differences of ions such as सोडियम, potassium, chloride, and calcium.
Changes in the cross-membrane voltage can alter the function of voltage-dependent ion channels.
If the वोल्टेज परिवर्तन by a विशाल enough amount, an all-or-none electrochemical pulse called an कार्रवाई संभावित is उत्पन्न, जिससे travels rapidly along the कोशिका 's axon, और activates सिनेप्टिक connections साथ other cells when it arrives.
Neurons do नहीं undergo cell division.
In सबसे मामले, neurons are generated by special प्रकार of स्टेम cells.
astrocytes, a type of glial cell, have also महरूम observed to फेरे into न्यूरॉन्स by पुण्य of the stem cell characteristic pluripotency.
in humans, neurogenesis largely ceases दौरान adulthood—but in दो दिमाग areas, the hippocampus and olfactory बल्ब, वहीँ is strong evidence लिये पीढी of substantial numbers of new neurons.
Super Bowl xliii was an अमरीकी football खेल between the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( AFC ) champion Pittsburgh Steelers and the नेशनल Football Conference ( nfc ) champion Arizona कार्डिनल्स to decide the नेशनल Football लीग ( NFL ) चैंपियन for the 2008 ऋतु.
The स्टीलर्स defeated the Cardinals by the score of 27–23.
the खेल was निभाई on February 1, 2009, at Raymond James स्टेडियम in Tampa, Florida.
साथ this जीत, the Steelers became the first team to win छह सुपर Bowls.
पिट्सबर्ग, जो समाप्त the नियमित season with a 12–4 record, also won their दूसरी Super Bowl in four years बाद winning सुपर Bowl XL at the समाप्त of the 2005 season.
The Cardinals entered the game seeking their पहला NFL title चूंकि 1947, the longest चैंपियनशिप सूखा in the लीग.
The क्लबों became an unexpected विजेता दौरान the regular season, compiling a 9–7 रिकार्ड, and the playoffs with the aid of सिर coach केन whisenhunt, who थी the स्टीलर्स ' offensive समन्वयक in Super Bowl xl, and the re-emergence of quarterback Kurt Warner, who थी the Super कटोरी mvp in सुपर Bowl xxxiv with उसके पूर्व टोली, St. लुई मेढ़ों.
पिट्सबर्ग jumped to a 17–7 मध्यांतर सीसे, aided by linebacker James हैरिसन 's सुपर कटोरी रिकार्ड 100-yard interception return लिये a touchdown.
trailing 20–7 at the प्रारंभ of the चौथी quarter, Arizona scored 16 unanswered points, सहित चौड़ी receiver Larry Fitzgerald 's 64-yard touchdown reception, to take the सीसे साथ 2:37 remaining in the खेल.
लकिन the स्टीलर्स marched 78 गज to score on wide receiver Santonio holmes ' 6-yard game-winning touchdown catch with 35 seconds बाएँ.
Holmes, who caught नौ passes लिये 131 yards and a touchdown, सहित चार receptions for 73 yards on कि final game-winning ड्राइव, थी named Super Bowl MVP.
He became the sixth wide receiver to जीत the award, and भी थी the तीसरा Pittsburgh receiver to win the पुरस्कार, following Lynn Swann and Hines Ward.
Despite the वैश्विक financial संकट और limited राशि of आनुषंगिक festivities कि are सामान्यतः आयोजित before the game, the एनबीसी television network broadcast आकर्षित an average U.S. दर्शक of 98.7 million viewers, making it the most देखी Super Bowl in इतिहास to that point.
A diagram of the electromagnetic वर्णक्रम, प्रर्दशित various गुण across the दायरा of frequencies और wavelengths
The electromagnetic spectrum is the दायरा of all possible बारंबारता of electromagnetic विकिरण.
the `` electromagnetic वर्णक्रम '' of an object has a अलग अर्थ, and is instead the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or अवशोषित by that particular object.
The electromagnetic वर्णक्रम extends from नीचे the कम बारंबारता used for modern radio संचार to गामा radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end, thereby covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of the आकार of an अणु.
The सीमा for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself, while it is विचार कि the short wavelength सीमा is in the vicinity of the प्लांक लंबाई, हालांकि in principle the spectrum is infinite और निरन्तर.
Most parts of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम हैं प्रयुक्त in science लिये spectroscopic और other probing interactions, as तरीके to study and characterize matter.
In addition, विकिरण इससे various भाग of the spectrum रै मिला many अन्य उपयोग for communications and manufacturing ( देखिए इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण लिये more अनुप्रयोग ).
Legend
Marchantia, a liverwort
ब्रायोफाइटा is a traditional name used to refer to सब embryophytes ( जमीन plants ) कि do नहीं have true vascular ऊतक और are इसलिए पुकारा ' non-vascular plants '.
Some bryophytes do have specialized tissues लिये the transport of water ; however since these do not contain lignin, वे are not माना to be true vascular ऊतक.
Currently bryophytes are thought not to be a प्राकृतिक or monophyletic समूह ; however the name is convenient and remains in use as a सामूहिक पद लिये mosses, hornworts, और liverworts.
bryophytes produce enclosed reproductive structures ( gametangia and sporangia ), but they उपज neither पुष्प nor बीज, reproducing via spores.
The term ब्रायोफाइटा comes इससे Greek βρύον, bryon, `` tree-moss, oyster-green '' + φυτόν - phyton `` plant ''.
a बैंको is a वित्तीय institution और a financial intermediary कि accepts deposits और channels those जमा into lending activities, either सीधे by loaning or indirectly through पूंजी markets.
a बैंको is the connection between ग्राहक कि have capital deficits and customers with capital surpluses.
Due to उनके influence भीतर a financial system and an economy, banks हैं generally अत्यधिक regulated in most countries.
Most banks operate अंतर्गत a प्रणाली known as fractional reserve बैंकिंग where they थाम only a छोटी reserve of the funds deposited और lend out the rest for profit.
वे are generally विषय to न्यूनतम पूंजी requirements जिससे हैं आधारित on an international set of capital standards, ज्ञात as the Basel accords.
The oldest bank still in अस्तित्व is मोंटे dei Paschi di Siena, headquartered in Siena, Italy, जिससे has been operating continuously since 1472.
it is followed by Berenberg Bank of Hamburg ( 1590 ) and Sveriges Riksbank of स्वीडन ( 1668 ).
बैंकिंग in इसके modern भाव evolved in समृद्ध शहरों of पुनर्जागरण इटली, such as फ्लोरेंस, Venice और Genoa.
In the history of banking, a number of banking dynasties —among them notably Medici, Fugger, welser, Berenberg, baring and रोथ्सचाइल्ड —have played a central role over many centuries.
the Xbox is a video खेल console manufactured by Microsoft.
It थी released on नवम्बर 15, 2001 in North America, February 22, 2002 in जापानी, and March 14, 2002 in Australia और यूरोपीय.
It was Microsoft 's first foray into the gaming console market.
as भाग of the sixth-generation of gaming, the Xbox competed साथ सोनी 's प्लेस्टेशन 2, Sega 's Dreamcast ( which stopped American बिक्री पहले the Xbox went on sale ), and Nintendo 's GameCube.
the एक्सबॉक्स was the first console offered by an अमरीकी कम्पनी after the Atari जैगुआर stopped sales in 1996.
The एकीकृत Xbox Live सेवा शुभारम्भ in नवम्बर 2002 अनुमत players to खेल खेल online with a broadband कनेक्शन.
It पहला competed साथ dreamcast 's online सेवा but बाद primarily competed साथ PlayStation 2 's online service.
Although these दो हैं free while एक्सबॉक्स Live required a subscription, as well as broadband-only connection which थी नहीं completely adopted yet, एक्सबॉक्स सजीव was a success due to बेहतर servers, features such as a buddy list, और milestone titles like Halo 2 released in नवम्बर 2004, जिससे is the best-selling Xbox video game and was by दूर the most लोकप्रिय online game for years.
Xbox 's successor, the Xbox 360, was शुभारम्भ in November 2005.
The एक्सबॉक्स थी discontinued in लेट 2005 in Japan जहाँ sales were ग़रीब.
It was discontinued in लेट 2006 in यूरोपीय and early 2007 in उत्तर अमेरिका.
the last एक्सबॉक्स game in Europe थी टोनी हॉक 's Project 8 released in नवम्बर 2006, और the last game in North America was Madden एनएफएल 09 released in अगस्त 2008.
support लिये out-of-warranty Xbox consoles was discontinued on March 2, 2009, stating that any in-warranty repair now needed will नहीं be undertaken.
Xbox अभिगम to एक्सबॉक्स सजीव थी stopped on अप्रैल 15, 2010.
The Gospel According to John ( Greek τὸ κατὰ ἰωάννην εὐαγγέλιον ), commonly referred to as the Gospel of John or simply John and प्रायः referred to in New वसीयत scholarship as the Fourth इन्जील, is an खाता of the पब्लिक ministry of Jesus.
It begins with the गवाह और प्रतिज्ञान by John the Baptist and concludes with the मौत, burial, resurrection, और post-resurrection appearances of यीशु.
This account is fourth of the canonical gospels, after the synoptics Matthew, चिह्नित and Luke.
states कि the book derives from the testimony of the ' disciple जिसको Jesus loved. '
साथ with Peter, the बेनाम disciple is विशेषकर close to यीशु, and early-church tradition पहचाना उसे as John the apostle, एक of यीशु ' Twelve Apostles.
The gospel is closely related in style और content to the three surviving epistles of John such कि commentators दावत the चार books together, yet, according to सबसे आधुनिक विद्वानों, John थी not the लेखक of कोई of these books.
Recent Christian Scripture स्कॉलरशिप more और more रै placed John within a first-century यहूदी कॉन्टेक्स्ट.
Raymond E. Brown did pioneering कार्य to ट्रेस the development of the परंपरा from which the gospel arose.
the discourses seem to be चिंतित with the actual issues of the church-and-synagogue debate at the time when the इन्जील थी written.
It is notable कि, in the gospel, the community still appears to define itself primarily against Judaism, बल्कि than as part of a wider Christian गिरिजाघर.
हालांकि Christianity started as a movement within Judaism, धीरे Christians and Jews became bitterly opposed.
John presents a `` higher '' Christology than the synoptics, meaning कि it describes Jesus as the incarnation of the divine लोगो through whom सब things were made, as the object of veneration, और अधिक explicitly as God incarnate.
तभी in John does Jesus बात at length about खुद and his दैवी role, often shared with the शिष्यों only.
विरूद्ध the synoptics, जॉन focuses largely on different चमत्कार ( सहित resurrecting Lazarus ), given as लक्षण meant to engender आस्था.
Synoptic तत्व ऐसे as parables और exorcisms हैं not मिला in जॉन.
It presents a realized eschatology in which मोक्ष is already present लिये the believer.
The Plagues of Egypt ( ), also पुकारा the टेन Plagues ( ) or the Biblical Plagues, were ten calamities that, according to the biblical किताब of exodus, Israel 's God, Yahweh, inflicted upon Egypt to राजी Pharaoh to रिलीज the ill-treated Israelites इससे slavery.
pharaoh capitulated after the tenth plague, triggering the exodus of the Jewish people.
the plagues were designed to contrast the power of yahweh साथ the impotence of Egypt 's various देवताओं.
Some टीकाकारों have associated several of the plagues with judgment on specific देवताओं associated with the nile, fertility और natural phenomena.
the plagues of Egypt हैं भी उल्लेखित in the Quran ( 7,133–136 ).
according to the Book of Exodus, God proclaims that all the देवताओं of Egypt will be judged through the दसवाँ and final plague:
John Martin 's painting of the plague of hail और fire ( 1823 ).
a role-playing game ( आरपीजी और sometimes roleplaying खेल ) is a खेल in which players assume the roles of characters in a fictional सेटिंग.
खिलाड़ी take जिम्मेदारी लिये एक्टिंग आउट these भूमिकाएँ within a कथा, either through शाब्दिक acting or through a process of संरचित decision-making or अक्षर development.
क्रियाएँ लिया भीतर अनेक खेल succeed or असफल according to a औपचारिक प्रणाली of rules और guidelines.
वहीँ are several forms of आरपीजी.
The original form, sometimes called the tabletop RPG, is conducted through discussion, whereas in live action role-playing games ( LARP ) players physically perform their वर्ण ' actions.
In both of ये forms, an arranger पुकारा a खेल निपुण ( gm ) प्रायः decides on the नियम and सेटिंग to be प्रयुक्त and अधिनियमों as referee, जबकि प्रत्येक of the other खिलाड़ी plays the role of a single character.
अनेक किस्में of RPG भी मौजूद in electronic media, such as multi-player text-based muds and उनके graphics-based successors, massively एकाधिक online role-playing games ( mmorpgs ).
Role-playing games also include single-player offline role-playing video games in जिससे खिलाड़ी कंट्रोल a अक्षर or team who undertake quests, और may शामिल capabilities कि advance using सांख्यिकीय mechanics.
These games प्रायः share settings and नियम with tabletop rpgs, but emphasize अक्षर advancement more than collaborative storytelling.
Despite इस variety of फ़ॉर्म, some game forms such as trading card games and wargames that are related to role-playing खेल may not be शामिल.
Role-playing activity may sometimes be उपस्थित in such games, but it is not the primary focus.
the term is भी sometimes प्रयुक्त to describe लिए simulation games and exercises प्रयुक्त in teaching, प्रशिक्षण, and अकादमिक शोध.
The American सिविल War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the राज्य or simply the Civil युद्ध ( देखिए नामकरण ), was a सिविल युद्ध fought इससे 1861 to 1865 between the United राज्य ( the `` Union '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) and several Southern स्लेव राज्य कि declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of अमेरिका ( the `` confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
the war had इसके उत्पत्ति in the issue of गुलामी, especially the extension of slavery into the western territories.
Foreign powers किया not intervene.
After चार सालो of खूनी कॉम्बैट कि left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's अवसंरचना, the Confederacy collapsed, गुलामी was abolished, और the difficult Reconstruction प्रक्रम of restoring national unity and guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed स्लेव began.
In the 1860 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, republicans, led by अब्राहम lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त States ' territories.
Lincoln won, लकिन before his inauguration on March 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave राज्य formed the confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration होता नहीं initiate civil war.
आठ remaining slave राज्य जारी to reject काल्स लिये secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal दुर्गों within territory claimed by the confederacy.
A Peace सम्मेलन failed to find a सुलह, and both पहलू prepared for war.
The confederates assumed that European countries यहूद so निर्भर on `` किंग Cotton `` that वे would intervene ; none किया and none पहचाना the new Confederate राज्य of अमेरिका.
hostilities began on April 12, 1861, जब confederate forces fired upon फोर्ट Sumter, a key fort held by Union सैनिकों in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for प्रत्येक state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently, four अधिक slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing their कुल to ग्यारह.
The Union soon controlled the border states और स्थापित a नवल blockade कि crippled the southern अर्थव्यवस्था.
The Eastern थिएटर was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate अभियान into Maryland ( a संघ राज्य ) ended with confederate रिट्रीट at the बैटल of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
lincoln issued the emancipation Proclamation, जिससे बना ending slavery a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river नेवी, तब much of उनके western सेना, और the Union at vicksburg split the confederacy in दो at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, रॉबर्ट E. ली 's Confederate incursion north ended at the बैटल of Gettysburg.
पश्चिमी सफलताओं led to ulysses S. Grant command of all संघ सेना in 1864.
in the Western थिएटर, William T. शरमन drove east to कैप्चर अटलांटा and marched to the sea, destroying Confederate infrastructure साथ the way.
the Union marshaled the resources and manpower to आक्रमण the Confederacy from सब directions, and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, अग्रणी to Lee 's surrender to ग्रान्ट at appomattox Court House on अप्रैल 9, 1865.
The अमरीकी Civil युद्ध was एक of the earliest true industrial युद्धों.
railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, and mass-produced हथियार were employed extensively.
the mobilization of civilian कारखानों, mines, shipyards, banks, transportation and खाना supplies सब foreshadowed World War i.
It remains the deadliest war in American इतिहास, resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको and an undetermined number of civilian हताहत.
इतिहासकार John huddleston estimates the मौत toll at ten प्रतिशत of all Northern males 20–45 years बूढ़ा, and 30 percent of सब Southern श्वेत males aged 18–40.
the परिभाषा of the संसार 's busiest airport has been specified by the एयरपोर्ट Council International in Geneva, Switzerland.
The ACI defines और measures the following three types of विमानक्षेत्र traffic:
यात्री ट्रैफ़िक : total passengers emplaned and deplaned, यात्री in पारगमन counted एकबार
Cargo traffic : loaded और unloaded भाड़ा and mail in मीट्रिक tonnes
Traffic movements : अवतरण और take-offs of aircraft
संसार War I ( WWI ) थी a वैश्विक war centred in Europe कि began on 28 जुलाई 1914 और lasted जबतक 11 नवम्बर 1918.
it थी predominantly called the संसार युद्ध or the ग्रेट युद्ध from its occurrence until the start of World युद्ध ii in 1939, and the First World War or World War i thereafter.
It involved all the world 's ग्रेट powers, which यहूद समवेत in two opposing alliances : the allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom, France and Russia ) और the Central शक्तियां ( originally the Triple Alliance of जर्मनी, austria-hungary and Italy ; but, as Austria–Hungary था taken the offensive विरूद्ध the agreement, इटली did not डालें into the war ).
ये alliances were दोनो reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the युद्ध : इटली, जापानी and the संयुक्त States joined the Allies, and the Ottoman साम्राज्य and Bulgaria the Central शक्तियां.
ultimately, अधिक than 70 million सैन्य personnel, including 60 million europeans, were mobilised in एक of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 लाख combatants were killed, largely क्युकी of technological advancements कि led to विशाल increases in the lethality of हथियार without सम्बन्धित improvements in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in संसार history, subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये विभिन्न political परिवर्तन, such as revolutions in अनेक of the nations शामिल.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign policies of the great शक्तियां of यूरोपीय.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of ऑस्ट्रिया, the वारिस to the सिंहासन of austria-hungary, on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav राष्ट्रवादी Gavrilo Princip in साराजेवो triggered a राजनयिक crisis when austria-hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the किंगडम of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the previous दशकों were invoked.
भीतर weeks, the प्रमुख powers यहूद at युद्ध और, via their colonies, the conflict जल्द स्प्रेड around the संसार.
on 28 जुलाई, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first गोलियाँ of the युद्ध as preparation for the आक्रमण of सर्बिया.
While the russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral बेल्जियम and Luxembourg on the way to France, providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of युद्ध विरूद्ध जर्मनी.
बाद the जर्मनी march on Paris थी brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western सामने settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that बदला little जबतक 1917.
On the पूर्वी Front, the Russian army थी successful विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians, but थी रोका in its invasion of ईस्ट Prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman साम्राज्य joined the war, खोलने up fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia and the sinai.
Italy और बुल्गारिया went to war in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
In रूस, the tsar 's government collapsed in कूच 1917 and a subsequent revolution in नवम्बर brought the russians to terms साथ the सेंट्रल Powers.
After a 1918 German अप्रिय along the western सामने, the allies drove back the germans in a series of successful offensives and American शक्तियां began entering the trenches.
Germany, जिससे था इसके own ट्रबल साथ revolutionaries, सहमत to an armistice on 11 नवम्बर 1918.
the war ended in विजय for the allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the बैटल fronts, as the भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize their manpower और आर्थिक संसाधन to लड़ो a कुल war.
By the समाप्त of the युद्ध, चार major इम्पीरियल powers—the German, Russian, austro-hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
the successor राज्य of the पूर्व two खोया a great राशि of territory, जबकि the latter two were dismantled entirely.
the मैप of central Europe was redrawn into several smaller राज्य.
The लीग of राष्ट्र थी formed in the hope of preventing another such विरोध.
the European nationalism शाखित by the war and the ब्रेकअप of empires, the repercussions of Germany 's defeat और समस्याएं with the सन्धि of versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to संसार War ii.
the deepwater क्षितिज oil spill ( also referred to as the BP oil spill, the bp आयल disaster, the Gulf of मैक्सिको आयल spill, और the Macondo blowout ) थी an oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico on the BP -operated Macondo Prospect, considered the largest accidental marine आयल spill in the इतिहास of the petroleum उद्योग, estimated to be between 8 % और 31 % larger in आवाज़ than the पहले Ixtoc I oil spill.
Following the explosion और sinking of the Deepwater Horizon आयल rig, which claimed 11 lives, a sea-floor oil gusher flowed unabated लिये 87 days, जबतक it was capped on 15 July 2010.
The total निर्वहन is अनुमानित at.
A विशाल जवाब ensued to protect beaches, wetlands और मुहानों from the spreading आयल utilizing skimmer जहाजों, फ्लोटिंग booms, नियंत्रित burns and of corexit आयल dispersant.
After अनेक failed प्रयत्न to contain the flow, the well थी declared sealed on 19 सितंबर 2010.
Some रिपोर्ट्स indicate the well site continues to लीक.
due to the months-long spill, साथ साथ प्रतिकूल effects from the जवाब and cleanup क्रियाएँ, extensive damage to marine and wildlife habitats, fishing और पर्यटन industries, और human स्वास्थ्य problems have continued through 2013.three years बाद the spill, तारकोल balls could स्टिल be found on the Mississippi coast.
Numerous investigations explored the causes of the explosion और record-setting spill.
Notably, the u.S. सरकारी 's सितंबर 2011 रपट pointed to defective cement on the खूब, faulting mostly bp, but भी well ऑपरेटर transocean और ठेकेदार Halliburton.
Earlier in 2011, a White House आयोग likewise blamed BP और इसके partners for a श्रेणी of cost-cutting decisions और an insufficient safety system, but also concluded that the spill resulted from `` प्रणालीगत '' root कल्याणकारी and `` absent significant सुधार in दोनो industry practices and government policies, might well recur ''.
In November 2012, bp and the United राज्य विभाग of इंसाफ settled federal criminal charges साथ BP pleading guilty to 11 counts of manslaughter, two misdemeanors, and a felony count of lying to कॉंग्रेस.
bp also सहमत to four years of government निगरानी of इसके safety practices and ethics, and the Environmental Protection Agency घोषित कि BP होता be temporarily banned इससे new contracts साथ the us सरकारी.
BP और the Department of Justice agreed to a record-setting $ 4.525 billion in fines और other payments लकिन further विधिक proceedings not अपेक्षित to conclude until 2014 are जारी to determine payouts and जुर्माना अंतर्गत the Clean जल Act और the Natural Resources क्षति मूल्यांकन.
As of फ़रवरी 2013, criminal and civil settlements और payments to a trust fund had लागत the कम्पनी $ 42.2 billion.
`` जहाँ the Streets have no नाम '' is a song by rock band U2.
It is the खोलने track from उनके 1987 album the जोशुआ पेड़ and थी released as the album 's third single in August 1987.
the song 's आँकड़ा is a repeating guitar arpeggio using a विलंब प्रभाव, निभाई during the song 's परिचय और again at the समाप्त.
सीसे vocalist Bono wrote the lyrics in response to the ख़्याल कि it is possible to पहचानो a person 's religion और income आधारित on the street on जिससे वे lived, विशेषकर in belfast.
During the band 's कठिनाइयों recording the song, निर्माता Brian eno माना erasing the song 's tapes to have them start इससे खरोंच.
`` जहाँ the गलियों Have No Name '' थी praised by आलोचकों and became a वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी, peaking at number thirteen in the US, number fourteen in कनाडा, क्रमांक ten in the Netherlands, and number चार in the United Kingdom.
the song रै become one of the band 's सबसे लोकप्रिय songs and has remained a staple of their सजीव अधिनियम since the song debuted in 1987 on The Joshua Tree दौरे.
the सोंग was notably performed on a Los Angeles rooftop लिये the filming of its music video, which जीती a Grammy Award for Best प्रदर्शन Music वीडियो.recently the सोंग has been used by the NFL 's बाल्टीमोर Ravens as their प्रवेश song in Super कटोरी xlvii
Thomas Jeffrey `` Tom '' Hanks ( born July 9, 1956 ) is an American actor, निर्माता, लेखक, and director.
हैंक्स is known for उसके भूमिकाएँ in अपोलो 13, Big, कि Thing तुम Do !
, The ग्रीन Mile, तुम 've मिला मेल, sleepless in Seattle, Charlie Wilson 's War, Catch Me if तुम can, फॉरेस्ट गंप, Cast दूर, a लीग of उनके अपना, the Da विंची कोड, Angels & Demons, as well as animated films like the Toy Story film श्रेणी, The ध्रुवीय Express, and The सिम्पसन्स Movie.
He has earned and been मनोनीत लिये numerous पुरस्कार दौरान उसके career, सहित जीतना a Golden Globe for Best कर्ता और an Academy पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Actor for his role in Philadelphia और a Golden ग्लोब, an Academy पुरस्कार, a स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं Guild Award, और a लोगों 's Choice Award for Best Actor for his role in Forrest Gump, and कमाई the स्टेनली Kubrick britannia पुरस्कार for Excellence in फिल्मी from the baftas in 2004.
Hanks is also ज्ञात for उसके सहयोग साथ film director Steven Spielberg on Saving निजी रयान और the mini-series बैंड of Brothers, जिससे शुभारम्भ हैंक्स भी as a कामयाब निदेशक, producer और लेखक.
as of 2012, Hanks ' films have grossed over $ 4.2 अरब at the United States बक्सा office alone, और over $ 8.5 billion worldwide making him the उच्चतम all-time बक्सा office स्टार.
The केप is an अमरीकी superhero drama series.
it premiered on एनबीसी दौरान the 2010–2011 टेलीविज़न season as a mid-season replacement beginning साथ a two-hour pilot एपीसोड on संडे, जनवरी 9, 2011 at 9 pm Eastern और Pacific समय.
An encore निभाई on Monday, January 10, with follow-up एपीसोड continuing on Monday evenings in the 9 pm timeslot beginning on January 17.
NBC subsequently cut the कुल number of episodes to be aired from 13 to 10 as a परिणाम of low दरजा.
on March 2, 2011, एनबीसी announced that the series finale would तभी be aired on the network 's website.
Halley 's Comet or Comet हैली ( or ), officially designated 1p/halley, is the best-known of the short-period धूमकेतुओं और is visible इससे Earth every 75–76 सालो.
Halley is the तभी short-period धूमकेतु that is clearly दृश्य to the naked नजर इससे Earth, और thus the तभी naked-eye धूमकेतु कि might appear twice in a इंसान lifetime.
Other naked-eye comets may be brighter and अधिक spectacular, but होगा appear तभी एकबार in हज़ारों of years.
Halley 's returns to the inner Solar प्रणाली have been observed और recorded by astronomers since at least 240 BCE.
Clear records of the comet 's appearances were made by चाइनीज, Babylonian, और मध्यकालीन European chroniclers, but were not पहचाना as reappearances of the same ऑब्जेक्ट at the समय.
the comet 's periodicity was पहला determined in 1705 by अंग्रेज़ी astronomer Edmond हैली, बाद whom it is अभी नामित.
हैली 's धूमकेतु last appeared in the inner Solar System in 1986 and will next appear in mid-2061.
During its 1986 apparition, हैली became the पहला comet to be observed in detail by spacecraft, providing the first observational आंकड़ा on the ढांचा of a धूमकेतु केंद्रक and the यांत्रिकी of coma and टेल गठन.
ये observations supported a क्रमांक of longstanding hypotheses about धूमकेतु construction, विशेषकर Fred Whipple 's `` dirty स्नोबॉल '' मॉडल, which correctly पूर्वानुमानित कि हैली would be रचित of a मिश्रण of volatile ices – ऐसे as जल, carbon डाइऑक्साइड and ammonia – and dust.
the missions also provided data जिससे substantially reformed और reconfigured these विचार ; लिये instance it is now समझा that Halley 's surface is largely रचित of dusty, non-volatile सामग्री, and कि तभी a छोटी portion of it is icy.
the following is a list of the most populous incorporated places of the United States of America.
as पारिभाषित by the संयुक्त States Census Bureau, an `` incorporated प्लेस `` includes a variety of designations, including नगर, कस्बा, village, borough, और नगरपालिका.
A few exceptional जनसांख्यिकी Designated Places ( cdps ) हैं भी included in the Census ब्यूरो 's listing of incorporated places.
Consolidated city-counties represent a पृथक प्रकार of government कि includes the entire जनसांख्यिकी of a county, or काउंटी समतुल्य.
Some संचित city-counties, however, include multiple incorporated स्थान.
इस list presents only कि portion ( or `` balance '' ) of ऐसे संचित city-counties that are नहीं a part of another incorporated place.
नोट that this सूची refers तभी to the जनसांख्यिकी of individual municipalities भीतर their defined हद, जिससे does नहीं include other municipalities or unincorporated suburban क्षेत्रों within urban agglomerations.
a different ranking is evident जब considering U.S. महानगर क्षेत्रफल populations.
The mayflower थी the ship that in 1620 transported 102 English तीर्थयात्रियों, including a core समूह of separatists, to नई इंग्लैण्ड.
Their story is one of travail and survival in a harsh New World पर्यावरण.
A New जीलैंड आगे ( in white ) takes a शॉट on लक्ष्य विरूद्ध Cameroon in the 2011 FIFA U-20 World कप.
Forwards, also ज्ञात as strikers, हैं the खिलाड़ी on a team in संघ football who play nearest to the opposing टोली 's goal, और हैं इसलिए principally responsible लिये scoring लक्ष्य.
This बहुत उन्नत स्थिति and its limited defensive responsibilities औसत forwards normally स्कोर more लक्ष्य than other खिलाड़ी.
This स्थिति requires intelligence, speed, और शक्ति, both of execution and of thought, to perform the भूमिका खूब.
Modern team formations प्रायः include one to three forwards ; two is the most common.
Coaches typically फ़ील्ड एक striker जो plays in an advanced position ( the केन्द्र forward ), और another attacking forward who plays somewhat deeper and assists in making लक्ष्य as well as scoring ( the दूसरी striker ).
It should be noted that inside forwards develop from attacking midfield positions और hence हैं naturally midfielders.
बार्सिलोना FC स्टार Lionel Messi is a typical attacking मिडफील्डर seen as a आगे due to his shot accuracy.
a California domestic साझेदारी is a legal relationship उपलब्धियाँ to same-sex युगल, and to certain opposite-sex युगल in which at least one पार्टी is at तनिक 18 सालो of age.
it affords the couple `` the वही rights, protections, और benefits, और... the same जिम्मेदारियों, obligations, और duties under विधि... '' as married spouses.
enacted in 1999, the domestic partnership registry was the पहला of its दयालु in the United राज्य निर्मित by a विधानमंडल without court हस्तक्षेप.
initially, domestic partnerships enjoyed very few privileges—principally बस hospital-visitation rights और the right to be claimed as a next of kin of the एस्टेट of a deceased संगी.
The legislature has since expanded the पैमाना of कैलिफ़ोर्निया domestic partnerships to शामिल all of the अधिकारों and responsibilities common to marriage.
as such, कैलिफ़ोर्निया domestic partnerships are functionally equivalent to civil unions offered in several other states.
Although the कार्यक्रम enjoys व्यापक support in California, it has been the सोर्स of some controversy.
Groups opposed to the recognition of same-sex families have challenged the विस्तार of domestic partnerships in court.
conversely, advocates of same-sex marriage contend कि anything less than पूरा marriage rights विस्तारित to same-sex partners is analogous to the `` पृथक but equal '' racial कानून of the Jim कौवा era.
Mark A. जैक्सन ( born अप्रैल 1, 1965 ) is an American basketball coach, and पूर्व खिलाड़ी who is the current head कोच of the Golden State योद्धाओं of the एनबीए.
A पाइंट गार्ड from st. जॉन 's विश्वविद्यालयों, he निभाई for the New York knicks, Indiana पेसर्स, Los एंजिल्स Clippers, Denver Nuggets, Toronto रैपटर्स, यूटा जैज़ and Houston Rockets in the NBA in a career spanning इससे 1987 to 2004.
Jackson रै also worked as a कमेंटेटर लिये ESPN और एबीसी alongside his पूर्व कोच Jeff Van Gundy and play-by-play man माइक breen.
he थी previously an NBA analyst for the यस Network 's नई जर्सी Nets games.
दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी has ग्यारह आधिकारिक languages : Afrikaans, अंग्रेज़ी, ndebele, उत्तरी sotho, Sotho, Swazi, tswana, सोंगा, Venda, Xhosa and Zulu.
Fewer than two percent of दक्षिण Africans बोलो a पहला language other than an official one.
Most दक्षिण africans can बोलो अधिक than one language.
Dutch and English were the first आधिकारिक भाषाएं of दक्षिण Africa from 1910 to 1925.
अफ्रीकी थी added as a part of Dutch in 1925.
डच was replaced by Afrikaans when South Africa became a republic in 1961, and Dutch was dropped in 1983, so between 1983 और 1994, South Africa था दो official languages : English and अफ्रीकी.
The English version of the दक्षिण African constitution refers to the भाषाएं by the names in those languages : isiZulu, isiXhosa, Afrikaans, Sepedi ( referring to Northern Sotho ), Setswana, अंग्रेज़ी, Sesotho ( referring to Southern Sotho ), xitsonga, siswati, tshivenda and isindebele ( referring to दक्षिणी Ndebele ).
in दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी, दक्षिणी Ndebele is known simply as ndebele, as most speakers of Northern Ndebele सजीव in Zimbabwe.
The 1993 version of the Constitution referred to Northern Sotho as Sesotho sa Leboa, but the 1996 version referred to the भाषा as Sepedi.
Different government विभाग and आधिकारिक bodies use अलग terms to denote Northern Sotho.
The main language of government is English भी if दक्षिण africans often take अभिमान in using indigenous languages लिये कोई purpose.
Afrikaans also सुविधाएँ prominently in कॉमर्स together with English as the भाषाएं साथ the highest number of धाराप्रवाह speakers are Afrikaans and English.
In शर्तें of भाषाई वर्गीकरण, the official भाषाएं include two West-Germanic languages ( अंग्रेज़ी and अफ्रीकी ) and nine Bantu languages.
Four of these are Nguni languages ( ज़ुलू, Xhosa, Swati and Ndebele ) and three are sotho–tswana languages ( Northern Sotho, दक्षिणी Sotho and Tswana ).
Tsonga is a Tswa–Ronga भाषा.
South अफ़्रीकी चिह्न Language is a distinct हालांकि incompletely emerged national standard भाषा which भी subsumes a क्लस्टर of semi-standardised dialects.
एल्युमिनियम nitrate is a salt of aluminium and nitric एसिड, मौजूदा normally as a crystalline hydrate, सबसे commonly as aluminium नाइट्रेट nonahydrate, Al ( no3 ) 3·9h2o.
The नई यॉर्क jets हैं a professional football team headquartered in Florham Park, नई Jersey, representing the New York metropolitan area.
The टोली is a सदस्य of the पूर्वी Division of the American Football Conference ( AFC ) in the नेशनल Football लीग ( NFL ).
in a unique व्यवस्था लिये the लीग, the Jets share MetLife स्टेडियम in ईस्ट Rutherford, New Jersey with the नई यॉर्क Giants.
the मताधिकार is legally और corporately registered as New York jets, LLC.
the टोली थी founded in 1959 as the टाइटन्स of नई यॉर्क, an असली member of the American फ़ुटबॉल लीग ; बाद, the मताधिकार joined the एनएफएल in the AFL–NFL merger.
the team began to play in 1960 at the Polo grounds.
अंतर्गत नई स्वामित्व, the current नाम थी adopted in 1963 and the franchise थी relocated to shea Stadium in 1964 and तब to the Meadowlands Sports जटिल in 1984.
The jets advanced to the playoffs for the first समय in 1968 और went on to compete in Super Bowl III जहाँ वे defeated the Baltimore Colts, बनने the पहला AFL टोली to defeat an NFL क्लबों in an afl-nfl World Championship Game.
चूंकि 1968, the jets have appeared in the playoffs तेरह times, और in the AFC चैंपियनशिप Game चार टाइम्स, most recently losing to the पिट्सबर्ग Steelers in 2010.
However, the jets have never returned to the सुपर कटोरी, making उन्हें एक of तीन NFL teams to win उनके lone Super Bowl रूप, साथ with the नई ऑरलियन्स संतो and tampa Bay buccaneers.
The team 's प्रशिक्षण सुविधा, Atlantic Health Jets प्रशिक्षण बीच, जिससे opened in 2008, is located in Florham पार्क.
The team currently holds their annual प्रशिक्षण शिविर sessions on the campus of the State University of नई York at Cortland in cortland, New York जबकि पकड़कर occasional sessions at the Florham Park जटिल.
Psilocybe semilanceata
Psilocybin mushrooms, also known as साइकेडेलिक mushrooms, हैं fungi that contain psychoactive indole alkaloids.
There हैं multiple colloquial शर्तें for psilocybin मशरूम, the most common being shrooms and जादू mushrooms.
biological genera containing psilocybin mushrooms include Agrocybe, Conocybe, Copelandia, Galerina, Gerronema, Gymnopilus, Hypholoma, Inocybe, Mycena, Panaeolus, pluteus, and Psilocybe.
There are लगभग 190 प्रजाति of psilocybin mushrooms and सबसे of उन्हें fall in the genus Psilocybe.
psilocybin mushrooms have likely been used since प्रागैतिहासिक times and may have been चित्रित in rock आर्ट.
Many cultures have प्रयुक्त these मशरूम in religious rites.
In modern पश्चिमी समाज they are used recreationally for उनके साइकेडेलिक effects.
हाल studies done at Imperial कॉलेज London और Johns Hopkins स्कूल of Medicine conclude that when प्रयुक्त properly, psilocybin acts as an anti-depressant as suggested by fmri दिमाग scans.
अलास्का ( ) is a state in the संयुक्त राज्य, situated in the northwest extremity of the उत्तर American continent, साथ the international boundary साथ कनाडा to the ईस्ट, the आर्कटिक Ocean to the north, and the Pacific समंदर to the west and दक्षिण, साथ Russia further वेस्ट across the Bering जलसन्धि.
अलास्का is the largest state in the United States by क्षेत्रफल, the 4th least populous and the तनिक densely आबादी of the 50 United States.
लगभग half of Alaska 's 731,449 निवासियों सजीव भीतर the Anchorage महानगर क्षेत्रफल.
Alaska 's अर्थव्यवस्था is वर्चस्व by the आयल, प्राकृतिक gas, and fishing industries ; it has ये resources in abundance.
Alaska थी purchased इससे रूस on March 30, 1867, for $ 7.2 लाख ( $ adjusted for inflation ) at approximately दो cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
the land went through अनेक प्रशासनिक changes before बनने an organized ( or incorporated ) territory on may 11, 1912, and the 49th राज्य of the u.S. on January 3, 1959.
the नाम `` अलास्का '' ( аляска ) was already introduced in the Russian colonial period, जब it थी used only लिये the peninsula and is निकला इससे the Aleut alaxsxaq, meaning `` the mainland '' or, more वस्तुतः, `` the ऑब्जेक्ट towards which the action of the समुद्र is directed ''.
It is भी known as Alyeska, the `` ग्रेट जमीन '', an Aleut word निकला इससे the same रूट.
The 101 French विभाग हैं विभाजित into 342 arrondissements, which may be translated into अंग्रेज़ी as districts.
The पूंजी of an arrondissement/district is called a subprefecture.
When an arrondissement contains the prefecture ( पूंजी ) of the department, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.
Arrondissements are further विभाजित into cantons and communes.
the vagina ( from Latin vāgīna, literally `` म्यान '' or `` scabbard `` ) is a tubular ट्रैक्ट which is a sex organ and रै दो main functions ; sexual intercourse और प्रसव.
In humans, this passage लीड इससे the खोलने of the vulva to the uterus ( womb ), but the vaginal ट्रैक्ट ends at the ग्रीवा.
Unlike men, जो have तभी one genital orifice, women have two, the urethra और the vagina.
The vaginal खोलने is much larger than the urethral opening, and both openings हैं protected by the labia.
the भीतरी mould of the योनि has a foldy बनावट which can create घर्षण for the शिश्न during intercourse.
दौरान arousal, the योनि gets नम to facilitate the entrance of the penis.
The Latinate plural `` vaginae '' is rarely used in अंग्रेज़ी.
Colloquially, the word vagina is प्रायः used to refer to the vulva or to the मादा genitals in general.
however, by its dictionary and anatomical परिभाषाएं, vagina refers exclusively to the specific internal structure.
the Cincinnati Reds हैं a Major League Baseball team based in सिनसिनाटी, Ohio.
They हैं members of the National लीग Central Division.
स्थापित in 1881 as an स्वतंत्र club, the team became a चार्टर सदस्य of the American Association in 1882, और joined the National लीग in 1890.
the club traditionally traces its उत्पत्ति to baseball 's first openly पेशेवर team in 1869.
the Reds have won पाँच World श्रेणी शीर्षक, one American Association pennant, nine National लीग pennants and टेन division titles.
the लाल निभाई in the National League West between 1969 and 1993 and have महरूम in the National League Central चूंकि 1994.
चूंकि 2003, the Reds have played at Great American Ball Park, built next to उनके घर इससे 1970 to 2002, Riverfront Stadium.
Bob castellini has owned the Cincinnati Reds since 2006.
A prank बदबू बमबारी.
A बदबू bomb is a device designed to create an unpleasant smell.
वे range in effectiveness from सरल pranks to military grade malodorants or riot control chemical agents.
The Guinness किताब of रिकॉर्ड सूचियाँ दो smelliest substances.
One is `` us सरकारी Standard Bathroom Malodor '' ; a mixture of eight रसायन with a stench resembling human मल, only much stronger, designed to test the efficacy of deodorizers and एयर fresheners.
another one, `` जो me ? ``, is a mixture of five sulfur-containing chemicals and खुश्बू like rotting खाना और carcasses.
the कहावत `` A चित्र is लायक a हजार words '' refers to the notion that a complex idea can be conveyed with just a single still image.
It भी aptly characterizes one of the main लक्ष्य of visualization, namely बनाना it possible to absorb large amounts of आंकड़ा quickly.
The expression `` Use a चित्र.
it 's लायक a thousand words. '' appears in a 1911 समाचारपत्र article quoting समाचारपत्र एडिटर Arthur Brisbane discussing journalism और publicity.
1913 newspaper विज्ञापन
A similar phrase, `` One dekh Is Worth A Thousand शब्द '', appears in a 1913 newspaper विज्ञापन for the piqua Auto सप्लाई House of Piqua, Ohio.
An जल्दी use of the सटीक phrase appears in an 1918 newspaper विज्ञापन लिये the San Antonio Light which says : एक of the Nation 's Greatest Editors says : One Picture is Worth a हजार शब्द The San अंतोनियो Light 's Pictorial Magazine of the युद्ध Exemplifies the truth of the ऊपर statement -- judging from the गरम reception it रै received at the hands of the संडे Light readers.
it is believed by कुछ that the modern उपयोग of the phrase stems इससे an article by Fred R. बर्नार्ड in the विज्ञापन व्यापार जर्नल Printers ' Ink, promoting the use of images in विज्ञापन कि appeared on the sides of streetcars.
the दिसम्बर 8, 1921 समस्या carries an ad entitled, `` One Look is लायक a Thousand Words. ''
Another ad by Barnard appears in the March 10, 1927 समस्या साथ the phrase `` One चित्र लायक टेन Thousand Words, '' where it is labeled a Chinese कहावत ( 一圖勝萬言 ).
the घर Book of proverbs, Maxims, and Familiar वाक्यांश उद्धरण बर्नार्ड as saying he called it `` a Chinese proverb, so कि people would take it seriously. ''
Soon बाद, the proverb होता become popularly attributed to Confucius.
The चर्चा of `` एक Picture Worth Thousand Words '' versus `` एक Picture लायक Ten हजार Words '' Wan yen I hua and 10.000 मील worth 10.000 books is cited in Information graphics जहाँ the concept of अनेक in different disciplines and cultures.
A picture is worth a thousand शब्द
despite this आधुनिक origin of the popular phrase, the sentiment रै महरूम expressed by earlier writers.
For उदाहरण the Russian लेखक Ivan Turgenev wrote ( in fathers और Sons in 1862 ), `` a चित्र shows me at a glance कया it takes dozens of pages of a book to expound. ''
Computer programmer और लेखक Fred Brooks makes an opposite statement regarding प्रोग्रामिंग in The mythical man-month : `` Show me your flowcharts and conceal your टेबल, और I shall continue to be mystified.
दिखाएँ me अपना टेबल, और I won’t प्रायः need your flowcharts ; they’ll be obvious. ''
The phrase has also been spoofed by John मैकार्थी, the प्रसिद्ध computer scientist, to make the विपरीत point : `` as the चाइनीज say, 1001 words is worth more than a picture. ''
a ऋतु is a subdivision of the साल, marked by changes in मौसम, ecology, and hours of daylight.
Seasons result इससे the वार्षिक क्रान्ति of the Earth around the Sun and the झुकाव of the Earth 's अक्ष relative to the plane of क्रान्ति.
In temperate and ध्रुवीय regions, the seasons are चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in the तीव्रता of धूप that पहुँच the Earth 's सतह, variations of which may कारण animals to go into hibernation or to migrate, and plants to be dormant.
During May, जून and July, the northern hemisphere is उजागर to more direct sunlight because the गोलार्ध faces the sun.
The same is सच्चा of the southern गोलार्ध in November, दिसम्बर और January.
It is the tilt of the धरती that causes the Sun to be higher in the sky दौरान the गर्मियाँ months जिससे increases the solar flux.
However, due to मौसमी lag, जून, July और August are the hottest महीने in the उत्तरी hemisphere and दिसम्बर, January and February हैं the hottest months in the southern गोलार्ध.
in temperate and subpolar regions, generally four calendar -based सीज़न ( with उनके adjectives ) are पहचाना : वसन्त ( vernal ), गर्मियाँ ( estival ), autumn ( autumnal ) और शीत ( hibernal ).
However, ecologists ज़्यादातर use a six ऋतु model for temperate climate regions that includes pre-spring ( prevernal ) and लेट गर्मियाँ ( serotinal ) as पृथक seasons साथ with the traditional चार.
Hot regions have दो or three seasons ; the बरसात ( or गीला, or monsoon ) season and the dry ऋतु, और in some tropical areas, a कूल or mild season.
in कुछ भाग of the world, special `` सीज़न '' हैं loosely defined based on महत्वपूर्ण events ऐसे as a hurricane ऋतु, tornado season or a दावानल season.
The six ecological seasons
The four पंचांग seasons, depicted in an ancient Roman मोज़ेक from Tunisia
Dutch exports in 2006
At the समय of लिखने the Netherlands is the 17th largest economy of the world.
( see : List of countries by GDP ( nominal ) )
GDP प्रति capita is roughly $ 42,000 जिससे puts it in the शीर्ष 10 of richest nations in the संसार ( देखिए : सूची of countries by GDP ( PPP ) per capita ).
Between 1996 and 2000 annual economic विकास ( GDP ) averaged over 4 %, well above the European औसत.
विकास slowed considerably in 2001-05 as part of the वैश्विक आर्थिक slowdown.
2006 और 2007 however दिखाया economic विकास of 3.4 % और 3.9 %.
The Dutch economy was hit considerably by the ongoing global financial crisis और the ensuing European debt crisis.
Several banks went bankrupt, and a number of अन्य had to receive governmental सहायता.
In 2009 the economy declined with 3.5 %, followed by two years of mild विकास.
The Dutch economy is currently in a मंदी again, with an economic मनाही of 0.5 % in 2012.
Inflation is at 3.2 % in फ़रवरी 2013.
बेरोजगारी has been relatively low compared to अन्य eu nations for decades but after mid-2012 it has seen a तेज़ increase and in February 2013 it has hit 7.7 %.
The नीदरलैंड्स managed to maintain its AAA दरजा at least जबतक March 2013 according to the तीन major credit दरजा agencies.
Historically, the डच introduced and invented the stock मार्केट by the merchandise trading through Dutch वेस्ट इण्डिया कम्पनी.
The Netherlands is a founding member of the European संघ, the oecd और the World व्यापार संगठन.
Loyal to the Game is the tenth studio एल्बम और sixth studio album by तुपाक Shakur.
it contains remixes of previously unreleased music recorded by shakur before his मौत in 1996.
Released in the United राज्य on December 14, 2004 ( दिसम्बर 12 in the United Kingdom ), Loyal to the Game was produced by Eminem.
The original panel of the View ; Meredith Vieira, Star Jones, Debbie matenopoulos और Barbara Walters in 1997.
the दृश्य is an American बात show broadcast on ABC कि debuted in 1997 as part of the network 's दिन programming block.
निर्मित by Barbara walters and Bill Geddie, who दोनो also serve as the show 's executive producers, the program सुविधाएँ a panel of women as co-hosts.
Along साथ Walters, the current panel शामिल Whoopi Goldberg, who serves as the moderator, Joy behar, Elisabeth Hasselbeck, और Sherri Shepherd.
International संस्करण of the कार्यक्रम are aired in several देशों.
as of the 2012–13 season, its 16th, The View is the fourth-longest कार्यशील national daytime बात show in history, behind The Phil Donahue दिखाएँ ( 29 ), the variously-named सजीव !
programs ( 25 ), and The Oprah Winfrey Show ( 25 ).
Prunus virginiana, commonly called bitter-berry, chokecherry, Virginia बर्ड cherry and पश्चिमी chokecherry ( also black chokecherry लिये P. virginiana var. demissa ), is a प्रजाति of bird चेरी ( prunus subgenus Padus ) native to North अमेरिका ; the प्राकृतिक historic range of P. virginiana includes सबसे of the महाद्वीप, except for the far north and far south.
Los Angeles International विमानक्षेत्र is the प्राथमिक airport सेवारत the वृहद Los एंजिल्स Area, the second-most आबादी महानगर क्षेत्रफल in the संयुक्त States.
It is सबसे प्रायः referred to by इसके IATA विमानक्षेत्र code LAX, साथ the अक्षर pronounced individually.
lax is located in southwestern लॉस एंजिल्स along the Pacific coast in the neighborhood of westchester, from the downtown core and is the प्राथमिक airport of Los एंजिल्स World Airports ( LAWA ), an एजेंसी of the Los एंजिल्स city सरकारी formerly ज्ञात as the विभाग of Airports.
In 2011, LAX थी the छठे busiest विमानक्षेत्र in the world बाद Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport, बीजिंग Capital International विमानक्षेत्र, London Heathrow विमानक्षेत्र, शिकागो O'Hare International विमानक्षेत्र, and Tokyo Haneda International Airport with 61,862,052 यात्री.
The विमानक्षेत्र holds the claim लिये `` the संसार 's busiest उत्पत्ति and destination ( O & D ) विमानक्षेत्र '' in 2011 that involves non-connecting यात्री ट्रैफ़िक.
it is also the तभी airport to rank among the top five u.S. एयरपोर्ट for दोनो passenger और cargo ट्रैफ़िक.
LAX is the busiest airport in the वृहद लॉस Angeles Area, but other airports सहित Bob Hope विमानक्षेत्र, John Wayne Airport, Long Beach Airport, la/ontario International Airport, और ताड़ स्रोतों अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport भी serve the region.
lax is भी the व्यस्ततम विमानक्षेत्र in कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the West coast of the United States in शर्तें of उड़ान operations, passenger traffic and air cargo कार्यकलाप, अग्रणी it to be referred to as the `` Gateway to the प्रशांत Rim ``.
peyton Williams Manning ( born March 24, 1976 ) is an American फ़ुटबॉल quarterback for the डेनवर broncos of the नेशनल Football League ( NFL ).
He played for the इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस for 14 seasons इससे 1998 to 2011.
he is the son of पूर्व एनएफएल क्वार्टरबैक आर्ची Manning और an elder brother of नई York दिग्गज क्वार्टरबैक एली Manning.
मैनिंग निभाई college फ़ुटबॉल for the University of Tennessee, अग्रणी the स्वयंसेवक to the 1997 SEC Championship in उसके senior ऋतु.
However, No. 3 Tennessee lost to the no. 2 Nebraska Cornhuskers 42-17 in the नारंगी कटोरी giving Nebraska और tom Osborne उनके 3rd national championship in 4 years.
He थी चुनी by the इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस with the first overall pick in the 1998 NFL Draft.
From 1998 to 2010, he led the कोल्टस to आठ ( seven AFC दक्षिण and one AFC ईस्ट ) division championships, दो AFC championships, and to a सुपर Bowl championship ( सुपर Bowl XLI ).
He has won a record four लीग most valuable player awards, was the सबसे मूल्यवान player of Super Bowl xli, has महरूम named to twelve प्रो Bowls, has twelve 4,000-yard गुजर सीज़न, और is the Indianapolis कोल्टस ' all-time leader in गुजर yards ( 54,828 ) and touchdown गुजरता ( 399 ).
in 2009, he थी named the best player in the NFL and Fox Sports along with खेल illustrated named उसे the NFL player of the दशक of the 2000s.
In May 2011, he underwent गर्दन सर्जरी to alleviate गर्दन पीड़ा और arm कमज़ोरी he dealt with दौरान the पिछला few seasons पहले signing a five-year, $ 90 million contract एक्सटेंशन साथ the कोल्टस in जुलाई 2011.
मैनिंग had hoped to खेल in the 2011 season, but in September 2011, he underwent a much अधिक serious second सर्जरी : a level एक cervical fusion procedure.
मैनिंग had never missed an एनएफएल खेल in उसके career, but थी मजबूर to मिस the entire 2011 season.
he थी released by the कोल्टस on March 7, 2012, and after an लगभग two-week period जहाँ he visited साथ and worked आउट for several एनएफएल टीमों, he हस्ताक्षरित साथ the डेनवर Broncos on कूच 20, 2012.
मैनिंग 's pre-snap routine has अर्जित उसे the nickname, `` the Sheriff '' और is one of the सबसे recognizable और parodied in the NFL.
The Indianapolis कोल्टस ' almost exclusive use of the hurry-up offense led to Manning using an array of इशारों and मौखिक commands to कॉल the play at the लकीर of scrimmage बल्कि than in the huddle.
The America Tower of the अमरीकी General Center, the headquarters of Baker Hughes
Baker ह्यूजेस is one of the world 's largest oilfield सेवाएं कंपनियाँ.
it operates in over 90 देशों, providing the oil and gas उद्योग with products और services for खुदाई, formation evaluation, completion, production और टंकी परामर्श.
Baker Hughes has its मुख्यालय in the America Tower in the American General बीच in Neartown, ह्यूस्टन.
बेकर ह्यूजेस incorporated was formed when Baker International और Hughes Tool Company merged in 1987.
Baker ह्यूजेस operates worldwide साथ major कार्यालयों in लिवरपूल, United Kingdom ; Singapore ; दुबई ; a research और maintenance facility in celle, Germany ; lafayette, Louisiana ; ह्यूस्टन, टेक्सास ; Pescara, इटली ; and Kuala lumpur, Malaysia.
the company is administered broadly in दो hemispheres : the eastern hemisphere with five regions ( यूरोपीय, अफ़्रीकी, the Middle ईस्ट, Asia Pacific and Russia/Caspian ) और the western hemisphere with चार regions ( Canada, US जमीन, US गल्फ, और लैटिन America ).
Each of these regions is subdivided into markets.
The United States one- cent सिक्का, commonly ज्ञात as a पैनी, is a ईकाई of currency equaling one one-hundredth of a United States डालर.
the cent 's symbol is ¢.
इसके obverse रै प्रदर्शित the profile of President अब्राहम Lincoln since 1909, the centennial of उसके birth.
From 1959 ( the sesquicentennial of lincoln 's जनम ) to 2008, the रिवर्स featured the Lincoln मेमोरियल.
Four different reverse डिजाइन in 2009 honored lincoln 's 200th जन्मदिवस और a नई, स्थाई reverse – the संघ Shield – was introduced in 2010.
The coin is 0.75 इंच ( 19.05 mm ) in diameter और 0.061 इंच ( 1.55 mm ) in thickness.
The U.S. Mint 's official नाम लिये a penny is `` '' and the U.S. राजकोष 's आधिकारिक name is `` one cent piece ''.
The colloquial term penny derives इससे the British सिक्का of the same नाम, the pre-decimal version of जिससे had a similar मान.
In American अंग्रेज़ी, pennies is the plural रूप, other plural फ़ॉर्म pence and पेशाब ( standard use in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी ) are नहीं प्रयुक्त.
As of 2012, it costs the U.S. Mint 2.00 cents to मेक a cent क्युकी of the cost of सामग्री and उत्पादन.
This figure includes the Mint’s fixed components लिये वितरण and fabrication, estimated at $ 13 million in fy 2011.
It also includes Mint overhead आबंटित to the पैनी, जिससे was $ 17.7 लाख for 2011.
Fixed लागत और overhead होता have to be अवशोषित by अन्य circulating coins बगैर the penny.
the घाटा in profitability due to producing the one cent सिक्का in the संयुक्त States लिये the साल of 2012 was $ 58,000,000.
This थी a slight घटी from 2011, the year before, जिससे था a production loss of $ 60,200,000.
or more specifically, are ornamental varieties of domesticated आम कार्प ( Cyprinus carpio ) that are kept लिये decorative उद्देश्य in outdoor कोई तालाबों or जल gardens.
Koi किस्में हैं distinguished by coloration, patterning, and scalation.
Some of the प्रमुख colors हैं श्वेत, black, रेड, पीला, ब्लू, and cream.
The most popular category of koi is the gosanke, which is made up of the Kohaku, Taisho Sanshoku, and showa sanshoku किस्में.
the अमरीकी संघ of Government Employees ( afge ) is an अमरीकी labor union representing over 650,000 employees of the federal government, about 5,000 कर्मचारी of the ज़िला of Columbia, and a few hundred private sector employees, ज़्यादातर in और around federal facilities.
afge is the largest संघ लिये civilian, non- postal संघीय employees and the largest union for ज़िला of Columbia employees who रपट सीधे to the mayor ( i.e., बाहर of D.C. public schools ).
It is संबद्ध साथ the AFL-CIO.
a लेट Silurian sporangium.
ग्रीन : a spore tetrad.
Blue : a spore bearing a trilete चिह्नित – the -shaped scar.
the spores are परिचय 30-35 μm आरपार
The evolution of पौधे has resulted in increasing levels of जटिलता, इससे the earliest algal मैट्स, through bryophytes, lycopods, ferns to the complex gymnosperms और angiosperms of आज.
While अनेक of the groups which appeared पहले continue to thrive, विशेषकर in the environments in which they evolved, for a समय each new grade of organisation became more `` successful '' than its predecessors.
In the Ordovician period, around, the first जमीन plants appeared.
These began to diversify in the late सिल्यूरियन Period, around, and the results of their diversification are displayed in उल्लेखनीय विवरण in an early Devonian चट्टान assemblage from the rhynie chert.
इस chert preserved जल्दी plants in सेल्यूलर detail, petrified in volcanic springs.
By the middle of the Devonian काल, most of the features recognised in plants today are present, including जड़ें, पत्ते and secondary wood ; and, by लेट devonian टाइम्स, seeds had विकसित.
Late Devonian plants had thereby पहुँचे a degree of परिष्कार कि allowed उन्हें to form वनों of लम्बा पेड़.
Evolutionary नवीनता जारी into the carboniferous period और is still जारी आज.
Most plant समूह यहूद अपेक्षाकृत unscathed by the Permo-Triassic extinction event, although the structures of communities बदला.
इस may have नियत the scene for the रूप of the flowering पौधे in the Triassic ( ~ ), और their later diversification in the Cretaceous and paleogene.
The नवीनतम major समूह of पौधे to evolve यहूद the grasses, which became important in the mid-paleogene, from around.
the grasses, as well as many other groups, evolved new mechanisms of चयापचय to survive the low and warm, शुष्क conditions of the tropics over the last.
The winning Super Bowl team receives the Vince Lombardi Trophy.
The सुपर Bowl is an सालाना American football game that determines the champion of the National Football League ( एनएफएल ).
The प्रतियोगिता is held in an American city that is चुनी तीन to चार years beforehand, प्रायः in warm-weather or domed sites.
Since 1971, the विजेता of the American फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( AFC ) Championship Game has faced the विजेता of the National Football Conference ( nfc ) चैंपियनशिप Game in the culmination of the एनएफएल playoffs.
पहले the 1970 merger between the अमरीकी Football League ( AFL ) and the National Football League ( NFL ), the two लीग met in चार such contests.
The पहला two were ज्ञात as the `` AFL-NFL संसार Championship Game. ''
Super Bowl iii in 1969 was the first such खेल कि carried the `` सुपर Bowl '' moniker, the names `` Super कटोरी I `` and `` Super Bowl II `` यहूद retroactively applied to the first two खेल.
The NFC /nfL leads in Super कटोरी wins साथ 25, जबकि the afc /AFL has जीती 22.
Eighteen अलग franchises, सहित टीमों that relocated to another city, have won the Super Bowl.
The पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स have जीती the most सुपर Bowls साथ six championships ( record 6–2 ), जबकि both the डलास cowboys and San Francisco 49ers have five विन्स each ( cowboys 5–3 ; 49ers 5–1 ).
Dallas और Pittsburgh have the most Super कटोरी appearances साथ आठ, while the Buffalo बिल्स have the most लगातार appearances with चार नुकसान in a row from 1990 to 1993.
The नई इंग्लैण्ड Patriots, Denver Broncos and Minnesota Vikings have also lost a record four Super Bowls.
Buffalo and Minnesota हैं both 0–4, डेनवर is 2–4 and New England is 3–4.
The रिकार्ड लिये consecutive wins is two और is shared by सात franchises : the 1966-67 ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स, the 1972-73 मियामी Dolphins, the 1974-75 और 1978-79 Pittsburgh Steelers ( the तभी team to accomplish this feat twice ), the 1988-89 San Francisco 49ers, the 1992-93 डलास Cowboys, the 1997-98 डेनवर Broncos, और the 2003-04 New England Patriots.
The तभी टोली with अनेक सुपर Bowl दिखावे and no losses is the Baltimore ravens, जो in जीतना सुपर Bowl xlvii unseated and replaced the 49ers in that स्थिति.
Four वर्तमान NFL टीमों have never appeared in a सुपर कटोरी, सहित franchise relocations and renaming : the Cleveland Browns, डेट्रॉयट Lions, Jacksonville jaguars, और Houston Texans, हालांकि दोनो the Browns and Lions had जीती एनएफएल चैंपियनशिप खेल prior to the सृष्टि of the Super Bowl.
मार्टिन काउंटी is a काउंटी स्तिथ in the u.S. राज्य of Texas.
As of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, इसके population was 4,799.
Its सीट is Stanton.
The county is named for wylie Martin, an early settler.
Martin काउंटी is one of 30 prohibition, or entirely dry, काउंटी in the राज्य of टेक्सास.
क्षारीय phosphatase ( alp, ALKP ) ( ) is a hydrolase enzyme जिम्मेदार लिये removing फास्फेट groups इससे अनेक types of अणुओं, including nucleotides, proteins, and alkaloids.
The process of निकालना the फास्फेट group is पुकारा dephosphorylation.
As the name suggests, alkaline phosphatases हैं most प्रभावी in an क्षारीय पर्यावरण.
It is sometimes used synonymously as basic phosphatase.
Triticale ( × Triticosecale ), ( ) is a hybrid of wheat ( triticum ) और rye ( secale ) first bred in laboratories during the लेट 19th century.
The grain was originally bred in Scotland और स्वीडन.
commercially available triticale is almost सदा a second पीढी hybrid, i.e., a क्रॉस between two kinds of प्राथमिक ( first cross ) triticales.
As a rule, triticale combines the उपज potential and अनाज quality of गेहूं with the बीमारी and पर्यावरणीय सहिष्णुता ( सहित soil शर्तें ) of rye.
तभी recently has it महरूम विकसित into a commercially viable crop.
depending on the cultivar, triticale can अधिक or less resemble either of its parents.
It is grown ज़्यादातर लिये forage or fodder, हालांकि कुछ triticale-based भोजन can be purchased at स्वास्थ्य food stores or हैं to be मिला in some नाश्ता cereals.
When क्रासिंग गेहूं and rye, wheat is प्रयुक्त as the मादा parent और rye as the पुरूष जनक ( pollen दाता ).
the resulting संकर is sterile, और must be treated with colchicine to induce polyploidy and thus the क्षमता to reproduce itself.
The primary निर्माता of triticale are कैंडल, जर्मनी, France, बेलारूस and ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
in 2009, according to the Food और कृषि Organization ( fao ), 15.0 लाख टन were harvested in 29 देशों across the world.
the triticale संकरण are सब amphidiploid, जिससे अर्थात् the plant is द्विगुणित लिये दो genomes निकला from अलग प्रजाति.
In other words, triticale is an allotetraploid.
In पहले years, सबसे work was किया on octoploid triticale.
Different ploidy स्तर have महरूम created और evaluated over time.
The tetraploids showed little promise, लकिन hexaploid triticale was successful पर्याप्त to find commercial अनुप्रयोग.
The cimmyt triticale improvement कार्यक्रम wanted to improve खाना production और nutrition in developing देशों.
Triticale रै संभावित in the production of bread and अन्य खाना products, ऐसे as cookies, पास्ता, pizza आटा और breakfast cereals.
The protein सामग्री is उच्चतर than that of wheat, हालांकि the glutenin fraction is less.
The grain has भी been stated to have higher levels of lysine than wheat.
Assuming increased स्वीकृति, the milling उद्योग will have to adapt to triticale, as the मिलिंग techniques employed लिये wheat are unsuited to triticale.
Sell et al. found triticale could be used as a फीड अनाज, and later शोध found its starch थी particularly readily digested.
as a फीड grain, triticale is already खूब स्थापित and of ऊँची economic महत्व.
it रै प्राप्त attention as a potential energy क्रॉप, and शोध is फिलहाल being conducted on the use of the क्रॉप 's biomass in bioethanol उत्पादन.
`` कश, the Magic ड्रैगन '' is a सोंग written by लियोनार्ड lipton and पीटर Yarrow, और बना लोकप्रिय by Yarrow 's समूह Peter, पॉल और Mary in a 1963 recording.
The song achieved great popularity.
A college football national चैंपियनशिप in the highest स्तर of collegiate play in the संयुक्त States, फिलहाल the National Collegiate एथलेटिक Association ( ncaa ) Division i Football कटोरी subdivision ( fbs ), is a नामांकन awarded annually by various third-party organizations to their selection ( s ) of the बेहतरीन कॉलेज football team ( s ).
Division i fbs ( formerly Division I-A ) फ़ुटबॉल is the only ncaa sport in which a वार्षिक चैंपियन is नहीं determined by an ncaa sanctioned championship इवेंट.
Because the चैंपियनशिप team is not determined by a ncaa चैंपियनशिप or tournament event, it is sometimes unofficially referred to as a `` mythical नेशनल चैंपियनशिप ``.
Since the NCAA, the sport 's governing देह, does नहीं determine or declare a national चैंपियन in this field, determination of such has often engendered controversy.
a championship team is independently declared by various individuals और organizations, often referred to as `` चयनकर्ताओं ''.
ये choices are sometimes at odds with each other.
While the ncaa रै never officially endorsed an सालाना championship टोली, it रै documented the चुनाव of several चयनकर्ताओं in the official ncaa Football Bowl subdivision रिकॉर्ड.
In addition, various तीसरा party analysts have independently प्रकाशित उनके अपना सूचियाँ of what वे have determined to be the most legitimate selections लिये प्रत्येक ऋतु.
These are भी प्रायः at हालात with each अन्य as well as individual स्कूल 's दावा on नेशनल championships, which, लिये any particular season, may or may नहीं correlate to the selections प्रकाशित elsewhere.
Currently, दो widely पहचाना national champions चयनकर्ताओं are the Associated Press, जिससे conducts a poll of फ़ुटबॉल sportswriters, and the USA Today कोच ' पोल, a poll of अमरीकी Football कोच Association क्रियाशील coaches that is contractually obligated to name the विजेता of the कटोरी Championship श्रेणी championship खेल as इसके नेशनल champion.
The मिल्वौकी ब्रेवर्स हैं a professional baseball team based in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
The team is a member of the सेंट्रल Division of प्रमुख लीग Baseball 's National लीग and plays its घर games at मिलर पार्क.
The टोली is so नामित क्युकी of the city 's association with the brewing industry.
the Washington Nationals हैं a पेशेवर baseball टोली आधारित in वॉशिंगटन, d.c.
The नागरिकों are a member of the ईस्ट Division of the नेशनल लीग of Major League Baseball ( MLB ).
the टोली 's home ballpark is Nationals Park, स्तिथ on दक्षिण कैपिटल Street in Southeast d.C., near the anacostia River.
the पार्क खोली in 2008, replacing RFK स्टेडियम, the टोली 's home from 2005 to 2007.
The नागरिकों ' name गर्भाशयी इससे the former वॉशिंगटन बेसबॉल team that था the same नाम ( used interchangeably with सीनेटरों ).
उनके nickname is `` the Nats '' —a shortened संस्करण that थी also प्रयुक्त by the old D.C. टीमों.
An विस्तार मताधिकार, the club थी founded in as the Montreal Expos, the पहला प्रमुख league टोली in Canada.
They were based in Montreal, Quebec, and played their home games at jarry Park Stadium and बाद in Olympic Stadium.
in, the Expos won a division चैंपियनशिप, won उनके first-ever playoff series by defeating the फिलाडेल्फिया फ़िलीज़, 3–2, और advanced to the नेशनल लीग चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी, जहाँ they होता go on to खोना to the Los Angeles डॉजर्स, 3–2, in their तभी postseason appearance during the strike-shortened season.
The Expos had उनके highest winning प्रतिशत in the strike-shortened season of, when the team था the best record in baseball.
the team 's subsequent shedding of खिलाड़ी caused fan ब्याज to drop off.
After the 2001 ऋतु, MLB माना revoking the team 's franchise, along with either the मिनेसोटा जुड़वा or the tampa खाड़ी शैतान किरणें.
बाद being खरीदा by एमएलबी in 2002, the team was स्थानांतरित before the season to Washington and renamed the Nationals, the first relocation since the second Washington Senators स्थानांतरित to Arlington, टेक्सास, and became the टेक्सास रेंजरों in.
The नागरिकों are एक of two MLB franchises, और the तभी one in the National League, that has never played in a World Series ( the सिएटल Mariners हैं the other ).
A contingent fee ( in the United States ) or conditional fee ( in England और Wales ) is any fee for सेवाएं provided जहाँ the fee is payable तभी if वहीँ is a favourable result.
In the law, it is defined as a `` fee charged for a lawyer 's सेवाएं तभी if the lawsuit is कामयाब or is favorably settled आउट of court....
निर्भर शुल्क हैं प्रायः calculated as a प्रतिशत of the client 's net recovery. ''
in the अंग्रेज़ी legal प्रणाली, it is generally referred to as no जीत no fee.
A सशर्त fee agreement between a law firm और a client.
The usual रूप of this agreement is that the solicitor will लो a law मामला on the understanding that if खोया, no भुगतान is made.
however, if the मामला is won, the lawyer will be entitled to the सामान्य fee based on hourly billing, plus a success fee.
The success शुल्क in इंग्लैण्ड जरूर be as a प्रतिशत no greater than 100 % of the normal शुल्क.
इस contrasts with the contingency fee in the us, जिससे gives the कामयाब attorney a percentage of the क्षतिपूर्ति awarded in favor of his client.
इस makes it easier लिये the poor to pursue their civil अधिकारों since otherwise, to मुकदमा someone for a अपकृत्य, one जरूर first be धनवान पर्याप्त to pursue such litigation in the first place.
However, because of the high risk, few attorneys will take मामले on a contingency basis unless they महसूस the case रै good merit.
According to a 2004 किताब by विधि प्राध्यापक हर्बर्ट Kritzer, contingent शुल्क were allowed as of that year in the following देशों : ऑस्ट्रेलिया, ब्राज़ील, कनाडा, the डोमिनिकन गणतंत्र, France, Greece, आयरलैंड, जापानी, New जीलैंड, the United Kingdom and the संयुक्त States.
They are भी अनुमत in personal injury actions in Lithuania.
Recently, they have महरूम अनुमत in बेल्जियम as well.
A convocation ( Latin 'calling together ', translating the Greek ecclesia ) is a group of लोगों formally समवेत लिये a special purpose.
बेटे of Anarchy is a television नाटक series निर्मित by Kurt sutter about the जीवनदान of a close-knit गैरकानूनी motorcycle club ऑपरेटिंग in Charming, a fictional कस्बा in California 's Central Valley.
the show centers on समर्थक जैक्सन `` जैक्स '' Teller ( चार्ली hunnam ), the then-vice president of the club, जो begins questioning the club और himself.
बेटे of अराजकता premiered on September 3, 2008, on cable संजाल fx.
the तीसरा ऋतु of the series attracted an average of 4.9 million दर्शक per week, बनाना it FX 's highest रेटेड श्रेणी ever, surpassing FX 's अन्य हिट्स The शील्ड, nip/tuck, and Rescue Me.
On February 3, 2012, Sons of अराजकता was renewed for two अतिरिक्त seasons, a fifth और a sixth.
Those involved in the उत्पादन of the series imply that a सातवाँ and final ऋतु is creator Kurt Sutter 's योजना.
the Grímsvötn sub-glacial lakes ( ; vötn = `` waters '', singular : ) और the volcano of the same name are in south-east Iceland.
They हैं in the हाइलैंड्स of आइसलैंड at the northwestern पक्ष of the Vatnajökull ice-cap.
The lakes are at, at an उन्नयन of.
Beneath the lakes is the मैग्मा कक्ष of the grímsvötn volcano.
Grímsvötn is a basaltic ज्वालामुखी which रै the highest eruption frequency of all the volcanoes in Iceland and has a southwest-northeast-trending फिशर system.
The विशाल climate-impacting Laki fissure फटना of 1783–1784 was a part of the same fissure system.
grímsvötn was erupting at the वही time as laki दौरान 1783, but continued to erupt until 1785.
क्युकी most of the volcano lies underneath Vatnajökull, most of इसके eruptions have been subglacial और the interaction of magma and meltwater from the ice causes phreatomagmatic explosive activity.
On 21 May 2011 at 19:25 utc, an फटना began, साथ high plumes accompanied by multiple भूकंप, resulting in रद्दीकरण of 900 फ़्लाइट in Iceland, and in the United किंगडम, ग्रीनलैंड, जर्मनी, Ireland and नार्वे on 22–25 May.
जबतक 25 May the फटना स्केल had been larger than that of the 2010 eruption of eyjafjallajökull.
The फटना stopped at 02:40 utc on 25 may 2011, हालांकि वहीँ was some विस्फोटक कार्यकलाप इससे the tephra vents affecting only the क्षेत्रफल around the crater.
vetting is the प्रक्रम of performing a पृष्ठभूमि जाँच on someone पहले offering them नियुक्ति, conferring an पुरस्कार, etc.
A prospective person or प्रोजेक्ट may be vetted before बनाना a hiring decision.
In जोड, in intelligence महफ़िल, assets हैं vetted to determine उनके usefulness.
Former headquarters और current कॉरपोरेट offices
caesars entertainment Corporation ( formerly Harrah 's Entertainment इससे 1995 to 2010 ) is an अमरीकी पब्लिक गेमिंग निगम कि owns और operates over 50 casinos, hotels, और seven golf पाठ्यक्रम under several brands.
The company, based in Paradise, नेवाडा, is the largest गेमिंग company in the संसार, with annual revenues of $ 8.9 अरब ( 2010 ).
caesars is a public कम्पनी, with a joint venture of अपोलो Global Management and Texas Pacific Group ownig a large portion of the stack और blackstone Group भी holding a significant stake.
The name change from `` harrah 's Entertainment inc. '' to `` Caesars Entertainment Corporation '' was made official on नवम्बर 23, 2010.
harrah 's remains a key ब्रांड in the company.
on November 5, 2010, harrah 's घोषित an आरंभिक पब्लिक offering of 31,250,000 साझा लकिन retracted इस offering on November 19.
a Permanent Resident in Canada is a person जो is नहीं a कनाडाई citizen लकिन who has been granted अनुमति to live and कार्य in Canada without कोई time limit on his or her stay.
a permanent निवासी must live in Canada लिये दो सालो out of every पाँच or risk खोने that status.
A स्थाई Resident holds अनेक of the वही rights और responsibilities as a कनाडाई citizen, among others the right to कार्य for any एंटरप्राइज़ as well as लिये the federal or provincial government ( under प्रतिबंध of अभिगम rights to निश्चित regulated professions ).
The main differences हैं that residents can नहीं :
vote in elections in कनाडा ;
run for निर्वाचित दफ्तर ;
hold कनाडाई passports ;
in जोड, वे may be अनुमत to join कनाडा 's armed forces if the national interest होता not be prejudiced.
Permanent residents भी रिस्क प्रत्यर्पण for serious crimes committed जबकि resident in Canada.
स्थाई residents may लागू for Canadian citizenship after three years in Canada ; however this is नहीं अनिवार्य.
Erica Kane is a fictional अक्षर इससे the American ABC दिन साबुन opera सब my Children.
the character was portrayed by actress सुसान lucci इससे her debut on January 16, 1970 जबतक the पिछला broadcast television एपीसोड aired on September 23, 2011.
On February 11, 2013, it was घोषित that Lucci होगा guest-star on the Prospect पार्क 's continuation of All My children.
in the U.S., Erica is considered to be the most popular अक्षर in soap ओपेरा इतिहास.
Regarding the North-American मार्केट, TV Guide काल्स her `` unequivocally the most प्रसिद्ध soap opera character in the इतिहास of daytime TV '', and included उसके in their 2013 सूची of The 60 Nastiest Villains of सब Time.
a आलेख of the us cpi from 1913 to 2006 ( in ब्लू ), and its percent annual बदलें ( in red )
a consumer दाम index ( CPI ) measures changes in the दाम स्तर of a market basket of consumer goods and सेवाएं purchased by households.
the CPI in the संयुक्त States is defined by the Bureau of Labor आंकडे as `` a माप of the औसत change over time in the prices paid by urban उपभोक्ता लिये a मार्केट बास्केट of consumer goods and services. ''
The cpi is a statistical अनुमान constructed using the prices of a नमूना of representative items whose prices are collected periodically.
sub-indexes और sub-sub-indexes are computed लिये different categories and sub-categories of goods and सेवाएं, होने combined to produce the overall अनुक्रमणिका with weights reflecting their shares in the total of the उपभोक्ता expenditures covered by the index.
It is one of अनेक price indices गणना by सबसे national statistical agencies.
The सालाना percentage change in a CPI is used as a measure of महंगाई.
A cpi can be used to अनुक्रमणिका ( i.e., adjust लिये the effect of महंगाई ) the रियल मान of wages, salaries, pensions, for regulating कीमतें and for deflating मौद्रिक magnitudes to दिखाएँ changes in रियल मान.
In सबसे countries, the CPI is, along with the population census and the USA National आय and Product खाते, one of the most closely देखी नेशनल economic statistics.
Knocking on लकडी, or to टच wood, refers to the apotropaic परंपरा in पश्चिमी लोकगीत of वस्तुतः touching/knocking on लकडी, or merely stating that you हैं doing or intend same, in order to avoid `` tempting भाग्य `` बाद बनाना a favourable observation, a boast, or declaration concerning one 's अपना मौत.
Rocker arm
Generally referred to भीतर the context of the आतंरिक दहन engine of automotive, समुद्री, motorcycle और प्रत्यागमनी विमानन इंजन, the rocker arm is an oscillating लीवर कि conveys radial movement इससे the कैम पालि into linear movement at the poppet valve to खोलें it.
One end is raised and lowered by a घूर्णन lobe of the camshaft ( either सीधे or via a tappet ( lifter ) and pushrod ) जबकि the other end अधिनियमों on the वाल्व stem.
When the camshaft पालि raises the बाहर of the arm, the inside presses down on the वाल्व stem, opening the valve.
When the outside of the arm is permitted to return due to the camshafts रोटेशन, the अंदर उदय, allowing the valve spring to close the वाल्व.
The drive cam is driven by the camshaft.
This pushes the rocker arm up और down about the trunnion pin or rocker shaft.
Friction may be घटाया at the पाइंट of contact साथ the वाल्व स्टेम by a रोलर cam follower.
A समान arrangement transfers the motion via another roller कैम अनुसरणकर्ता to a second rocker भुजा.
This rotates about the rocker shaft, और transfers the motion via a tappet to the poppet वाल्व.
in इस case this opens the intake valve to the cylinder head.
the effective leverage of the arm ( और thus the फ़ोर्स it can exert on the वाल्व स्टेम ) is determined by the रॉकर arm ratio, the ratio of the अलहदा from the रॉकर भुजा 's center of रोटेशन to the tip divided by the distance इससे the center of रोटेशन to the point acted on by the camshaft or pushrod.
वर्तमान automotive डिज़ाइन favors rocker arm ratios of about 1.5:1 to 1.8:1.
However, in the पास्ट smaller धनात्मक ratios ( the valve lift is वृहद than the कैम लिफ्ट ) और even ऋणात्मक ratios ( वाल्व lift छोटी than the कैम lift ) have been used.
अनेक pre-WW2 engines उपयोग 1:1 ( neutral ) ratios.
लिये car engines the rocker बाहें are generally steel stampings, providing a उचित balance of शक्ति, वज़न और किफायती लागत.
Because the rocker बाहें are, in भाग, reciprocating वज़न, excessive द्रव्यमान especially at the lever ends limits the engine 's ability to पहुँचें high ऑपरेटिंग speeds.
`` The Night the Lights Went Out in जॉर्जिया '' is a Southern Gothic song लिखा by songwriter bobby रसेल और performed in 1972 by his then-wife vicki लॉरेंस.
reba mcentire later covered it in 1991.
Recorded in लेट October 1972 in United/Western studios on Sunset in Hollywood and released less than two weeks later in November 1972, the song centers around the older brother of the narrator, falsely convicted of and executed for a हत्या, which the narrator herself रै वचनबद्ध.
In postal mail, a return address is an सुस्पष्ट inclusion of the पता of the person sending the message.
It provides the प्राप्तकर्ता ( और sometimes प्राधिकृत intermediaries ) with a अर्थात् to determine how to respond to the प्रेषक of the message if needed.
The return address need not include a sender 's नाम, लकिन should include address or P.O. box विवरण in the same way as the delivery पता should.
In some countries, the return पता is conventionally located in the upper बाएँ hand कोने of the लिफाफा, card, or label.
In the संयुक्त Kingdom, the return address is प्रायः लगाई on the reverse of the envelope, निकट the शीर्ष.
व्यवसायों often उपयोग envelopes preprinted with a return address.
Many individuals have sheets of adhesive लेबल्स preprinted with their home address to affix to their correspondence.
Charities sometimes include such sheets in mailshots.
Rolls of वापसी पता Labels can be purchased from companies कि sell personalized labels to provide individuals an आसान रास्ता to peel और stick वापसी address labels to उनके envelopes.
the वापसी address is not required on डाक mail.
however, कमी of a return पता prevents the postal सेवा from होने समर्थ to वापसी the मद if it proves undeliverable ; such as from क्षति, postage due, or invalid गंतव्य.
ऐसे mail may thus become dead अक्षर mail.
Should the वापसी address be of a different राज्य or country, the mail may be routed through that स्थान for ease of वापसी.
A तंत्रिका मार्गदर्शन conduit ( भी referred to as an कृत्रिम nerve conduit or artificial तंत्रिका graft, as opposed to an autograft ) is an artificial means of guiding axonal regrowth to facilitate nerve regeneration and is one of several clinical treatments for तंत्रिका चोटों.
जब direct suturing of the two stumps of a severed तंत्रिका can नहीं be संपन्नता without tension, the standard clinical treatment for peripheral nerve चोटों is autologous nerve grafting.
Due to the सीमित उपलब्धता of donor ऊतक और कार्यात्मक रिकवरी in autologous nerve कलम, neural ऊतक engineering शोध रै केन्द्रित on the development of bioartificial nerve guidance conduits as an alternative treatment, especially लिये large दोषों.
Similar तकनीकों are भी होने छान लिये nerve repair in the स्पाइनल cord but तंत्रिका regeneration in the सेंट्रल बेचैन system मुद्राएँ a greater चुनौती क्युकी its axons do नहीं regenerate appreciably in उनके native पर्यावरण.
The सृष्टि of कृत्रिम conduits is also known as entubulation क्युकी the तंत्रिका ends और intervening gap are enclosed within a ट्यूब composed of biological or सिंथेटिक materials.
Whether the conduit is in the form of a biologic tube, synthetic tube or tissue-engineered conduit, it चाहिए सुकर neurotropic और neurotrophic संचार between the proximal and distal ends of the nerve gap, ब्लाक external inhibitory factors, and provide a शारीरिक मार्गदर्शन लिये axonal regrowth.
the most basic objective of a nerve मार्गदर्शन conduit is to combine physical, chemical, और biological cues अंतर्गत शर्तें that होगा foster tissue गठन.
Materials that have been प्रयुक्त to मेक biologic tubes शामिल blood vessels and skeletal muscles, while nonabsorbable और bioabsorbable synthetic tubes have been बना from silicone और polyglycolide respectively.
Tissue-engineered तंत्रिका guidance conduits हैं a combination of many elements : scaffold structure, scaffold material, cellular therapies, neurotrophic factors and biomimetic सामग्री.
the choice of जिससे शारीरिक, chemical और biological cues to use is based on the properties of the तंत्रिका पर्यावरण, which is critical in creating the सबसे desirable environment for axon regeneration.
The factors that कंट्रोल material selection include biocompatibility, biodegradability, mechanical integrity, controllability during nerve विकास, implantation और sterilization.
Hardcore Pawn is an American reality टेलीविज़न श्रेणी produced by RDF यूएसए ( later Zodiak USA ) and रिचर्ड Dominick प्रोडक्शन्स for truTV परिचय the day-to-day परिचालन of अमरीकी Jewelry and Loan, a family-owned pawn shop located at 20450 Greenfield Road, between 8 Mile Road and the John C. आवास Freeway in Detroit, Michigan.
The श्रेणी premiered on August 16, 2010, delivering दो लाख दर्शक, setting a record as truTV 's most-watched series premiere कभी.
amoxicillin BP
Amoxicillin ( INN ), formerly amoxycillin ( BAN ), और abbreviated amox, is a moderate-spectrum, bacteriolytic, β-lactam antibiotic used to दावत bacterial infections caused by susceptible microorganisms.
It is प्रायः the drug of choice भीतर the class क्युकी it is better अवशोषित, following oral administration, than other β-lactam एंटीबायोटिक.
amoxicillin is एक of the सबसे common antibiotics prescribed for children.
The drug became available in 1972.
Amoxicillin is susceptible to degradation by β-lactamase -producing जीवाणु, जिससे हैं resistant to a व्यापक वर्णक्रम of β-lactam antibiotics, such as पेनिसिलीन.
लिये this कारण, it is प्रायः combined साथ clavulanic एसिड, a β-lactamase inhibitor.
This increases effectiveness by reducing its susceptibility to β-lactamase resistance.
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27, 1908 – जनवरी 22, 1973 ), often referred to as LBJ, थी the 36th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States ( 1963–1969 ), a position he assumed after his सेवा as the 37th Vice President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ).
He is एक of तभी चार लोगों जो served in सब चार elected संघीय कार्यालयों of the संयुक्त States : Representative, Senator, वाइस President, और President.
जॉनसन, a डेमोक्रेट from टेक्सास, served as a संयुक्त States प्रतिनिधि from 1937–1949 और as a Senator from 1949–1961, including six सालो as United States सीनेट बहुमत नेता, दो as Senate अल्पसंख्यक नेता और दो as Senate Majority चाबुक.
After campaigning unsuccessfully for the लोकतांत्रिक nomination in 1960, Johnson was पूछा by जॉन F. कैनेडी to be उसके running mate लिये the 1960 presidential election.
जॉनसन succeeded to the presidency following the assassination of John F. Kennedy on नवम्बर 22, 1963, completed कैनेडी 's पद and was निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष in उसके own right, winning by a large margin over बैरी goldwater in the 1964 चुनाव.
जॉनसन थी greatly समर्थित by the Democratic Party और as President, he थी responsible लिये डिजाइनिंग the `` ग्रेट समाज `` legislation that included laws that upheld civil rights, public broadcasting, Medicare, Medicaid, पर्यावरणीय protection, aid to education, और his `` War on गरीबी. ''
Johnson थी प्रसिद्ध for his domineering personality and the `` Johnson उपचार, '' his coercion of powerful politicians in अनुक्रम to अग्रिम legislation.
Meanwhile, जॉनसन escalated American भागीदारी in the Vietnam War, from 16,000 अमरीकी advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 combat सैनिकों in जल्दी 1968, as अमरीकी हताहत soared और the peace process bogged down.
the involvement stimulated a विशाल angry antiwar movement आधारित विशेषकर on university campuses in the u.S. और विदेश.
गर्मियाँ दंगे broke आउट in most प्रमुख शहरों after 1965, and अपराधों rates soared, as his opponents उठाया मांगे for `` law और अनुक्रम '' नीतियों.
The Democratic पार्टी split in multiple feuding गिरोहों, and बाद Johnson किया poorly in the 1968 New Hampshire primary, he ended his बोली लिये reelection.
रिपब्लिकन Richard निक्सन थी elected to सफल him.
इतिहासकारों argue that Johnson 's presidency चिह्नित the peak of आधुनिक उदारतावाद in the संयुक्त राज्य after the New सौदे era.
Johnson is ranked favorably by some इतिहासकारों क्युकी of his domestic नीतियों.
the Big बंग सिद्धान्त डाल at कॉमिक Con 2009, इससे left : कुणाल Nayyar, Simon helberg, kaley Cuoco, जिम पार्सन्स, and जॉनी galecki
the अमरीकी sitcom The Big Bang Theory, निर्मित और कार्यपालिका produced by Chuck Lorre and विधेयक Prady, premiered on CBS on September 24, 2007.
the दिखाएँ centers on five वर्ण : roommates शेल्डन Cooper and लियोनार्ड hofstadter, दो caltech physicists ; पैनी, a waitress and aspiring अभिनेत्री who lives across the hall ; and Leonard and Sheldon 's मित्रों और co-workers aerospace इंजीनियर Howard Wolowitz, और astrophysicist राजेश Koothrappali.
over time, several supporting वर्ण have been प्रचारित to starring भूमिकाएँ : Leslie winkle ( ऋतु 1 recurring ; season 2 नियमित ; season 3 अतिथि ), a physicist colleague, and, at अलग times, a प्रेमी of दोनो लियोनार्ड और Howard ; Bernadette Rostenkowski-Wolowitz ( ऋतु 3 recurring ; ऋतु 4-present regular ), a microbiologist, हावर्ड 's fiancée और subsequent wife, and former part-time waitress alongside पैनी ; neuroscientist एमी farrah Fowler ( season 3 guest ; season 4 पुनरावर्ती ; season 4-present नियमित ), who joins the group बाद being matched to Sheldon on a dating जालस्थल ; and कॉमिक किताब store-owner, Stuart खिलते ( सीज़न 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular ), जो replaces हावर्ड as Raj 's बेहतरीन friend when Howard is in स्पेस.
the show also features numerous supporting वर्ण, each of whom plays a prominent role in a छोटी group of episodes.
the American सिविल War ( ACW ), भी ज्ञात as the War between the States or बस the Civil War ( see नामकरण ), थी a civil युद्ध लड़ा from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared उनके secession and formed the confederate States of America ( the `` confederacy '' or the `` दक्षिण '' ).
The युद्ध had its origin in the issue of slavery, especially the extension of गुलामी into the western territories.
Foreign powers किया not intervene.
After four सालो of bloody combat कि बाएँ over 600,000 soldiers dead and नष्ट much of the South 's अवसंरचना, the confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, और the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national एकता and guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed slaves began.
in the 1860 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United राज्य ' territories.
Lincoln जीती, लकिन before उसके उद्घाटन on March 4, 1861, सात cotton-based slave states formed the confederacy.
outgoing Democratic अध्यक्ष जेम्स Buchanan and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
lincoln 's inaugural address declared his प्रशासन होता नहीं initiate सिविल युद्ध.
Eight remaining slave states जारी to reject काल्स लिये secession.
Confederate forces जब्त numerous संघीय forts within territory claimed by the confederacy.
A Peace Conference विफल to find a सुलह, और both sides prepared for युद्ध.
The confederates assumed that European countries यहूद so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new confederate States of अमेरिका.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when Confederate शक्तियां fired upon Fort sumter, a key fort आयोजित by संघ troops in दक्षिण कैरोलिना.
lincoln called लिये each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; नतीजतन, four more slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing उनके कुल to ग्यारह.
The Union soon controlled the border states and स्थापित a नवल blockade कि अबोध the दक्षिणी अर्थव्यवस्था.
the Eastern थिएटर थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
the autumn 1862 confederate campaign into Maryland ( a संघ state ) ended साथ Confederate रिट्रीट at the Battle of antietam, dissuading अंग्रेजों हस्तक्षेप.
Lincoln जारी the emancipation उदघोषणा, जिससे made ending गुलामी a war goal.
to the west, by summer 1862 the Union नष्ट the Confederate river navy, then much of their पश्चिमी armies, and the Union at Vicksburg विभाजित the Confederacy in दो at the Mississippi River.
in 1863, रॉबर्ट E. ली 's confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the Battle of gettysburg.
Western सफलताओं led to Ulysses S. Grant command of सब Union सेना in 1864.
in the Western Theater, William T. Sherman drove ईस्ट to capture अटलांटा and marched to the sea, destroying confederate अवसंरचना along the रास्ता.
The संघ marshaled the संसाधन and जनशक्ति to आक्रमण the Confederacy इससे all directions, and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards रिचमंड, the Confederate capital.
The defending confederate army विफल, अग्रणी to ली 's surrender to Grant at appomattox अदालत हाउस on अप्रैल 9, 1865.
the American Civil War थी one of the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक wars.
railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, transportation और खाना supplies सब foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest युद्ध in American history, resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
इतिहासकार John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो old, and 30 percent of सब दक्षिणी white males aged 18–40.
इंसान evolution refers to the evolutionary प्रक्रम leading up to the रूप of modern humans.
जबकि it began साथ the पिछला common ancestor of सब life, the topic प्रायः covers तभी the evolutionary history of primates, in particular the genus होमो, और the emergence of Homo sapiens as a distinct species of hominids ( or `` ग्रेट apes '' ).
the study of इंसान एवोल्यूशन involves many scientific disciplines, सहित physical anthropology, primatology, पुरातत्व, linguistics, विकासवादी psychology, embryology and genetics.
According to genetic studies, primates diverged इससे अन्य mammals परिचय in the Late Cretaceous period, and the earliest जीवाश्मों appear in the Paleocene, around.
The परिवार Hominidae diverged इससे the Hylobatidae ( Gibbon ) family 15-20 लाख सालो ago, और around, the Ponginae ( orangutans ), diverged इससे the Hominidae family.
bipedalism is the मौलिक adaption of the hominin लकीर, और the earliest bipedal hominin is माना to be either sahelanthropus or Orrorin, साथ Ardipithecus, a full bipedal, coming somewhat later.
the गोरिल्ला और chimpanzee diverged around the same time, परिचय 4-6 लाख सालो पहले, and either sahelanthropus or orrorin may be our last साझा ancestor साथ them.
The जल्दी bipedals eventually evolved into the australopithecines and बाद the genus होमो.
the earliest documented members of the genus Homo are Homo habilis which evolved around ; the earliest प्रजाति लिये which वहीँ is धनात्मक evidence of use of stone टूल्स.
The दिमाग of ये early hominins were परिचय the वही size as कि of a chimpanzee.
During the अगला million सालो a प्रक्रम of encephalization began, और साथ the आगमन of होमो इरेक्टस in the fossil रिकार्ड, cranial capacity had doubled to 850 cm3.
Homo erectus and Homo ergaster यहूद the first of the hominina to छोड़ अफ़्रीकी, and these species spread through Africa, Asia, and Europe between.
It is believed कि these species were the पहला to use fire and complex टूल्स.
according to the Recent अफ़्रीकी ancestry सिद्धान्त, आधुनिक humans विकसित in अफ़्रीकी possibly from होमो heidelbergensis, Homo rhodesiensis or होमो antecessor और migrated आउट of the महाद्वीप some 50,000 to 100,000 सालो पहले, replacing local populations of होमो erectus, होमो denisova, Homo floresiensis और Homo neanderthalensis.
Archaic Homo sapiens, the forerunner of anatomically modern humans, विकसित between 400,000 और 250,000 years पहले.
Recent डीएनए evidence suggests that several haplotypes of neanderthal उत्पत्ति are present among सब non-African populations, and Neanderthals और other hominids, ऐसे as denisova hominin may have contributed up to 6 % of their genome to present-day humans. < ref name= '' 10.1126/science.1209202 '' > anatomically modern humans evolved इससे archaic Homo sapiens in the मध्य Paleolithic, about 200,000 years पहले.
The transition to behavioral modernity with the development of सांकेतिक culture, language, and specialized lithic प्रौद्योगिकी happened around 50,000 years पहले according to many anthropologists हालांकि कुछ suggest a gradual बदलें in behavior over a longer समय span.
लिसा Cuddy, M.D., is a fictional अक्षर on the Fox network medical drama हाउस.
वो is portrayed by Lisa Edelstein.
Cuddy थी the Dean of आयुर्विज्ञान and hospital व्यवस्थापक of the fictional princeton-plainsboro Teaching Hospital in नई Jersey.
वो also becomes House 's love interest through the years to start a relationship with उसे in ऋतु seven.
Cuddy quit her job बाद the कार्यक्रम of season seven 's finale `` Moving On ``.
Track and field is a sport comprising विभिन्न competitive एथलेटिक contests आधारित on कार्यशील, कूद, and throwing.
The name of the खेल गर्भाशयी from the प्रतियोगिता venue : a स्टेडियम with an ओवल कार्यशील track around a grass field.
The फेंकना and jumping events generally लो प्लेस in the central enclosed क्षेत्रफल.
track and field जलप्रपात under the umbrella खेल of एथलेटिक्स, which भी शामिल road running, cross country running, and race चलना.
The दो most prestigious international track and फ़ील्ड competitions हैं आयोजित अंतर्गत the banner of athletics : the एथलेटिक्स प्रतियोगिता at the Olympic Games and the आइएएएफ संसार Championships in Athletics.
the अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ of Athletics federations is the international governing देह for track and फ़ील्ड.
Track and field कार्यक्रम are generally individual sports with athletes challenging each अन्य to decide a single victor.
The रेसिंग कार्यक्रम are won by the athlete with the तीव्रतम time, जबकि the कूद और throwing events are जीती by the खिलाड़ी who has achieved the greatest distance or ऊँचाई in the contest.
the कार्यशील कार्यक्रम हैं categorised as sprints, मध्य और long-distance events, relays, और hurdling.
नियमित jumping कार्यक्रम शामिल long जम्प, triple jump, high jump और ध्रुव vault, while the most आम फेंकना events हैं शॉट put, javelin, discus और hammer.
There हैं also `` संयुक्त कार्यक्रम '', such as heptathlon और decathlon, in which athletes compete in a number of the above events.
Records हैं kept of the best performances in विशिष्ट events, at world और national स्तर, right bas to a personal स्तर.
however, if एथलीट are deemed to have violated the इवेंट 's नियम or regulations, they are disqualified from the प्रतियोगिता और their marks are erased.
in उत्तर America, the term track and field may be used to refer to एथलेटिक्स in general, rather than specifically track and फ़ील्ड कार्यक्रम.
the Gulf War ( 2 August 1990 – 28 February 1991 ), codenamed Operation Desert Storm ( 17 जनवरी 1991 – 28 फ़रवरी 1991 ) थी a युद्ध waged by a U.N.-authorized Coalition फ़ोर्स from 34 राष्ट्र led by the United States, against Iraq in जवाब to Iraq 's आक्रमण और annexation of Kuwait.
The war is भी known अंतर्गत अन्य names, ऐसे as the Persian गल्फ युद्ध, पहला गल्फ युद्ध, Gulf युद्ध i, or the पहला Iraq युद्ध, before the term `` Iraq युद्ध '' became पहचाना बजाय साथ the 2003 Iraq War ( भी referred to in the u.S. as `` Operation Iraqi स्वतंत्रता '' ).
Kuwait 's invasion by Iraqi troops कि began 2 अगस्त 1990 थी met साथ international condemnation, and brought immediate आर्थिक प्रतिबंधों विरूद्ध Iraq by members of the u.N. Security Council.
U.S. President जार्ज H. W. Bush तैनात u.S. forces into Saudi अरब, और urged other countries to भेजें उनके own forces to the scene.
An array of nations joined the Coalition.
the ग्रेट बहुमत of the Coalition 's सैन्य forces were इससे the u.S., साथ सऊदी अरब, the United Kingdom and Egypt as अग्रणी योगदानकर्ता, in that order.
सऊदी Arabia paid around us $ 36 billion of the us $ 60 अरब cost.
The war was चिह्नित by the beginning of सजीव news on the front लाइनों of the लड़ो, with the primacy of the u.S. network सीएनएन.
The war has also earned the उपनाम Video Game War after the रोज़ ब्रॉडकास्ट images on फलक the U.S. bombers during आपरेशन Desert Storm.
the initial conflict to निकाल Iraqi troops इससे कुवैत began with an aerial bombardment on 17 जनवरी 1991.
This थी followed by a ground assault on 24 February.
This was a निर्णायक विजय for the गठबन्धन forces, who liberated कुवैत और advanced into Iraqi territory.
The गठबन्धन ceased their अग्रिम, and declared a cease-fire 100 घंटों after the मैदान campaign started.
Aerial and ground combat was confined to इराकी, Kuwait, and areas on Saudi Arabia 's border.
इराकी शुभारम्भ Scud missiles against Coalition military targets in सऊदी अरब and against Israel.
The nickel, in अमरीकी usage, is a five- cent सिक्का issued by the United राज्य Mint.
Composed of 75 % copper and 25 % निकल, the piece रै महरूम struck since 1866.
the चांदी half dime, equal to five cents, था been issued since the 1790s.
the अमरीकी सिविल War caused economic hardship, ड्राइविंग gold and silver from परिसंचरण ; in response, in place of low-value सिक्के, the सरकारी at first issued पेपर करेंसी.
In 1865, Congress abolished the five-cent fractional करेंसी नोट बाद Spencer M. Clark, head of the Currency Bureau ( आज the Bureau of Engraving and Printing ), placed उसके own portrait on the denomination.
After कामयाब परिचय of two-cent and three-cent pieces, without अनमोल मेटल, Congress also authorized a five-cent piece consisting of base मेटल ; the Mint began striking इस संस्करण in 1866.
The initial design of the Shield nickel was struck until 1883, then replaced by the स्वतंत्रता सिर निकल.
the Buffalo निकल was introduced in 1913 as भाग of a ड्राइव to increase the beauty of American coinage ; in 1938, the Jefferson nickel followed.
In 2004 and 2005, special designs in honor of the bicentennial of the Lewis and Clark Expedition यहूद जारी.
in 2006, the Mint reverted to using Jefferson निकल पंक्तियां Felix schlag 's original रिवर्स ( or `` tails '' side ), although a new obverse, by Jamie franki, was substituted.
As of 2013, it costs more than ग्यारह cents to produce a nickel ; the Mint is exploring the सम्भावना of reducing cost by using less महंगी धातुओं.
A पोस्टर with पुष्प or clusters of flowers produced by बारह प्रजाति of flowering plants इससे different परिवारों
A flower, sometimes ज्ञात as a bloom or blossom, is the reproductive structure found in flowering पौधे ( plants of the division Magnoliophyta, also पुकारा angiosperms ).
the biological function of a flower is to effect reproduction, usually by providing a mechanism लिये the संघ of sperm साथ eggs.
पुष्प may सुकर outcrossing ( fusion of शुक्राणु and eggs इससे different individuals in a population ) or allow selfing ( fusion of sperm and egg from the वही पुष्प ).
Some flowers produce diaspores without fertilization ( parthenocarpy ).
पुष्प contain sporangia और are the site where gametophytes develop.
Flowers give वृद्धि to फल और बीज.
अनेक flowers have evolved to be attractive to पशु, so as to cause them to be vectors for the transfer of पराग.
in जोड to facilitating the reproduction of flowering plants, flowers have long been admired and used by इंसानो to beautify their environment, और also as objects of रोमांस, ritual, धर्म, medicine and as a source of food.
The McDonnell डगलस ( now Boeing ) F-15 Eagle is a twin-engine, all-weather रणनीतिक सेनानी designed by McDonnell Douglas to लाभ and maintain एयर बड़प्पन in aerial combat.
It is considered among the सबसे कामयाब modern fighters, साथ over 100 aerial कॉम्बैट victories with no नुकसान in dogfights.
Following समीक्षाएँ of प्रस्ताव, the United States Air फ़ोर्स चयनित mcdonnell डगलस ' डिज़ाइन in 1967 to मिलें the सेवा 's need for a समर्पित एयर बड़प्पन fighter.
The Eagle first flew in जुलाई 1972, and entered सेवा in 1976.
Since the 1970s, the Eagle रै been exported to इसराईल, जापानी, Saudi Arabia, और other nations.
the f-15 was originally envisioned as a pure एयर superiority वायुयान.
Its design शामिल a द्वितीयक ground-attack capability कि was largely unused.
The डिज़ाइन proved लचीली enough that an all-weather strike derivative, the F-15E स्ट्राइक Eagle, थी बाद developed, and डाला सेवा in 1989.
The F-15 Eagle is अपेक्षित to be in service साथ the u.S. Air फ़ोर्स past 2025.
Mimio is a brand नाम of a line of technology उत्पाद aimed at the education market.
The प्राथमिक products are केन्द्रित around कंप्यूटर whiteboard interactive teaching devices.
mimiocapture devices also allow users to कैप्चर all of the स्याही strokes that are written on the whiteboard.
जब प्रयुक्त in conjunction साथ a वीडियो projector it turns the ordinary whiteboard surface into a fully interactive whiteboard.
The product line थी originally designed by आभासी स्याही.
On October 4, 2006 Newell Rubbermaid acquired the Mimio interactive whiteboard ( iwb ) product line.
rahab of जेरिको
Rahab, ( ; ; ) was, according to the Book of Joshua, a woman who lived in Jericho in the Promised Land and assisted the Israelites in capturing the city.
Nearly सब अंग्रेज़ी अनुवाद of Joshua describe her as a harlot or वेश्या.
The संगठन of अमरीकी States ( Spanish : organización de लॉस estados americanos, पुर्तगाली : organização dos estados americanos, French : संगठन देस états américains ), or the OAS, is a regional international organization.
the oas was founded on 30 April 1948, and has its headquarters in Washington, d.C., संयुक्त राज्य.
Its सदस्यों हैं the 35 independent राज्य of the Americas.
Since 26 may 2005, the Secretary General of OAS has been जोस Miguel Insulza.
Christopher Columbus ( Italian : Cristoforo कोलोन ; Spanish : Cristóbal Colón ; Portuguese : Cristóvão कोलोन ; before 31 October 145120 may 1506 ) थी an Italian एक्सप्लोरर, नाविक, and colonizer, born in the गणतंत्र of Genoa, in कया is today northwestern Italy.
Under the auspices of the Catholic monarchs of Spain, he completed four voyages आरपार the अटलांटिक समंदर that led to सामान्य European जागरूकता of the अमरीकी continents.
Those voyages, and his efforts to स्थापित permanent settlements on the island of हिस्पानिओला, initiated the Spanish colonization of the New World.
in the context of emerging western imperialism और आर्थिक competition between European kingdoms seeking माल through the स्थापना of trade routes and colonies, कोलंबस 's सट्टे proposal, to reach the ईस्ट इंडीज by sailing westward, आखिरकार received the support of the Spanish crown, जिससे saw in it a वादा, however remote, of gaining the upper हाथ over प्रतिद्वंद्वी powers in the contest लिये the lucrative spice व्यापार साथ एशिया.
दौरान his first voyage in 1492, बजाय of reaching Japan as he had intended, कोलंबस landed in the Bahamas archipelago, at a locale he नामित San साल्वाडोर.
Over the course of three more voyages, Columbus visited the Greater and Lesser Antilles, as well as the Caribbean coast of Venezuela और Central America, claiming उन्हें लिये the स्पेनी साम्राज्य.
Though Columbus थी नहीं the first यूरोपीय explorer to पहुँचें the americas ( having महरूम preceded by the Norse expedition led by Leif Ericson in the 11th सदी ), कोलंबस 's voyages led to the first स्थायी यूरोपीय contact साथ the Americas, inaugurating a काल of European खोजी, conquest, and colonization that lasted for several सदियां.
They था, therefore, an enormous impact in the historical विकास of the modern Western संसार.
कोलंबस खुद देखी उसके accomplishments primarily in the लाइट of the spreading of the Christian religion.
Never admitting कि he था reached a continent previously unknown to Europeans, बल्कि than the East इंडीज he था set आउट लिये, Columbus पुकारा the inhabitants of the lands he visited indios ( Spanish for `` Indians `` ).
कोलंबस 's strained संबंध साथ the Spanish crown और its appointed औपनिवेशिक administrators in America led to his arrest और dismissal as राज्यपाल of the settlements on the island of हिस्पानिओला in 1500, and बाद to protracted litigation over the लाभ which कोलंबस और उसके वारिस claimed यहूद owed to उन्हें by the क्राउन.
Bred in जर्मनी, the boxer is a नस्ल of stocky, medium-sized, short-haired dogs.
The coat is smooth and tight-fitting ; colors हैं fawn or brindled, साथ or without white markings, जिससे may cover the entire देह.
Boxers are brachycephalic ( वे have broad, short skulls ), और have a वर्गाकार muzzle, mandibular prognathism ( an underbite ), very strong जबड़े, and a शक्तिशाली काटना आदर्श for hanging on to large prey.
The Boxer was करवाया इससे the बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी बुल and the अभी विलुप्त bullenbeisser, and is part of the Molosser group.
Boxers यहूद first exhibited in a dog show for St. bernards in म्यूनिख in 1895, the first boxer क्लबों होने founded the next year.
Based on 2012 अमरीकी Kennel क्लबों आंकडे, Boxers आयोजित steady as the सातवाँ most लोकप्रिय breed of श्वान in the United States for the तीसरा consecutive year.
सीरियल ATA ( SATA ) is a computer bus interface that connects मेजबान बस adapters to mass भंडार डिवाइस such as hard डिस्क ड्राइव and ऑप्टिकल ड्राइव.
सीरियल ata replaces the पुरानी AT Attachment standard ( ATA ; बाद referred to as Parallel ATA or PATA ), offering several लाभ over the older इंटरफ़ेस : reduced केबल आकार and cost ( सात conductors बजाय of 40 ), देशी hot swapping, faster आंकड़ा transfer through उच्चतर signalling rates, and more efficient ट्रांसफ़र through an ( optional ) I/O queuing protocol.
SATA मेजबान adapters और डिवाइस communicate via a high-speed serial cable over two pairs of conductors.
in कंट्रास्ट, parallel ATA ( the redesignation लिये the legacy ATA विशेषताएँ ) used a 16-bit चौड़ी data बस with many additional support and कंट्रोल सिग्नल, all operating at much lower frequency.
to ensure backward संगतता with legacy ATA software and applications, sata उपयोग the वही basic ATA and ATAPI command-set as legacy ATA devices.
SATA has replaced समानांतर ATA in consumer desktop और laptop कंप्यूटर, and रै largely replaced PATA in नई embedded अनुप्रयोग.
SATA 's market share in the desktop pc market थी 99 % in 2008.
PATA remains widely used in औद्योगिक and embedded अनुप्रयोग कि use compactflash storage, even हालांकि the new CFast मानक is आधारित on SATA.
Serial ATA उद्योग compatibility specifications originate from The सीरियल ATA अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन ( उर्फ.
SATA-IO, serialata.org ).
the SATA-IO group collaboratively creates, reviews, ratifies, and publishes the interoperability specifications, the test मामले, और plug-fests.
As with many other industry compatibility standards, the SATA सामग्री स्वामित्व is transferred to other industry लाशें : primarily the incits t13 subcommittee ATA, the incits t10 subcommittee ( SCSI ) ; a subgroup of t10 responsible लिये सीरियल संलग्न SCSI ( sas ).
The पूरा specification इससे SATA-IO.
The remainder of this आलेख होगा कोशिश to use the terminology and specifications of SATA-IO.
The इतिहास of the अंतरजाल began with the development of electronic कंप्यूटर in the 1950s.
The public was पहला introduced to the concepts कि होता सीसे to the Internet when a message थी sent over the arpanet from कंप्यूटर विज्ञान Professor Leonard kleinrock 's laboratory at विश्वविद्यालयों of California, Los Angeles ( ucla ), बाद the second piece of संजाल उपकरण was संस्थापित at स्टैनफोर्ड Research Institute ( श्री ).
पैकेट switched संजाल ऐसे as ARPANET, Mark I at NPL in the uk, cyclades, मेरिट Network, Tymnet, and Telenet, were developed in the लेट 1960s और जल्दी 1970s using a variety of प्रोटोकॉल.
the ARPANET in particular led to the development of प्रोटोकॉल for internetworking, in which multiple पृथक संजाल could be joined साथ into a network of networks.
in 1982, the अंतरजाल protocol suite ( TCP/IP ) थी standardized, और consequently, the concept of a world-wide network of interconnected TCP/IP networks, called the अंतरजाल, was introduced.
Access to the ARPANET थी विस्तारित in 1981 when the National Science न्यास ( nsf ) developed the Computer विज्ञान संजाल ( csnet ) and again in 1986 जब NSFNET provided access to महासंगणक sites in the United States from research and शिक्षा organizations.
वाणिज्यिक Internet service प्रदाताओं ( ISPs ) began to emerge in the late 1980s और early 1990s.
The ARPANET was decommissioned in 1990.
The Internet थी commercialized in 1995 when nsfnet थी decommissioned, removing the पिछला restrictions on the use of the Internet to carry commercial traffic.
चूंकि the mid-1990s, the Internet रै था a revolutionary impact on culture और commerce, including the वृद्धि of near-instant संचार by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक मेल, instant messaging, आवाज़ over अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( VoIP ) `` फोन काल्स '', two-way इंटरैक्टिव वीडियो calls, and the संसार चौड़ी Web with इसके discussion forums, ब्लॉग, social networking, and online खरीदारी sites.
The research and education community continues to develop and उपयोग उन्नत networks ऐसे as NSF 's बहुत ऊँची speed रीढ़ संजाल Service ( vbns ), internet2, और National LambdaRail.
increasing amounts of आंकड़ा हैं transmitted at उच्चतर और higher speeds over fiber ऑप्टिक संजाल ऑपरेटिंग at 1-Gbit/s, 10-gbit/s, or अधिक.
The Internet 's कब्ज़ा over the global संचार लैंडस्केप was almost instant in historical शर्तें : it only communicated 1 % of the information बहती through two-way telecommunications networks in the year 1993, already 51 % by 2000, और more than 97 % of the telecommunicated सूचना by 2007.
आज the Internet continues to grow, driven by कभी वृहद amounts of online सूचना, commerce, entertainment, and social नेटवर्किंग.
The Gift is the second एल्बम by स्कॉटिश singer Susan Boyle, which was released on 8 नवम्बर 2010.
बॉयल hinted कि the album has a 1960s feel `` because कि was [ her ] era ''.
on 30 November 2011, the एल्बम received a नामांकन in 54th Grammy पुरस्कार लिये Best Traditional पॉप गायन Album.
`` This is बस To Say '' ( 1934 ) is a famous imagist poem by विलियम कार्लोस विलियम्स.
प्राध्यापक Albus पर्सिवल wulfric ब्रायन Dumbledore is a प्रमुख अक्षर और protagonist of J. K. Rowling 's Harry Potter series.
For most of the series, he is the headmaster of the wizarding school Hogwarts.
As part of his backstory, it is revealed that he is the founder and leader of the अनुक्रम of the फीनिक्स, an organisation dedicated to fighting the main विपक्षी of the श्रेणी, रब Voldemort.
Dumbledore is portrayed by रिचर्ड Harris in the film adaptions of हैरी Potter and the पारस 's Stone and हैरी Potter and the Chamber of Secrets.
बाद Harris ' मौत, माइकल Gambon portrayed डम्बल्डोर लिये all of the बाकी films.
Rowling stated वो chose the name Dumbledore, which is an जल्दी Modern अंग्रेज़ी word for `` bumblebee ``, because of Dumbledore 's प्रेम of music : वो imagined उसे चलना around `` humming to खुद a लॉट ''.
calcitonin ( भी known as thyrocalcitonin ) is a 32-amino acid रैखिक polypeptide hormone कि is produced in इंसानो primarily by the parafollicular cells ( भी known as C-cells ) of the thyroid, and in many other animals in the ultimobranchial देह.
it acts to reduce blood कैल्सियम ( ca2+ ), opposing the प्रभाव of parathyroid हार्मोन ( pth ).
calcitonin रै महरूम found in fish, सरीसृपों, birds, और स्तनधारियों.
Its महत्व in humans has not महरूम as well established as इसके importance in other पशु, as इसके function is usually नहीं significant in the regulation of normal calcium समस्थापन.
It belongs to calcitonin-like protein परिवार.
A mousepad with a padded कलाई बाकी.
A mousepad ( us ) or चूहा mat ( UK ) is a सतह लिये placing और moving a computer mouse.
A mousepad enhances the usability of the चूहा compared to using a चूहा directly on a तालिका by providing a surface to allow the tracking LED or ball ( in पूर्व models ) to माप गति accurately and बगैर jitter.
कुछ mousepads increase ergonomics by providing a padded wrist rest.
The stadium seen from above in 1980
December 29, 2002 implosion
the Riverfront स्टेडियम साईट in June, 2006.
This फ़ोटो थी taken from the पश्चिमी concourse of ग्रेट American बॉल Park.
A small portion of the riverfront स्टेडियम site is now occupied by the लाल ' हॉल of Fame and Museum and प्रमुख Street, which थी extended जब the नई park was built.
the सिनसिनाटी Bengals ' Paul Brown स्टेडियम is in the distance.
riverfront Stadium ( 1970–1995 ), later known as Cinergy फ़ील्ड ( 1996–2002 ), थी the home of the Cincinnati लाल National लीग बेसबॉल team and the Cincinnati bengals नेशनल Football League टोली.
Located on the Ohio River in शहर Cincinnati, the स्टेडियम was best ज्ञात as the घर of `` the Big रेड Machine ``, as the लाल were often called in the 1970s.
Construction began on February 1, 1968, and थी समाप्त at a cost of कम than $ 50 लाख.
on June 30, 1970, the Reds hosted the Atlanta braves in their ग्रैंड खोलने, with हांक आरोन hitting the first ever home चलाएं at riverfront.
दो सप्ताह later on जुलाई 14, 1970, riverfront hosted the 1970 Major League बेसबॉल all-star Game.
इस खेल is best remembered for the often-replayed collision at home थाली between Reds स्टार Pete रोज़ and catcher रे Fosse of the क्लीवलैंड इंडियंस.
In September 1996, riverfront Stadium थी renamed `` Cinergy Field '' in a sponsorship सौदे साथ वृहद सिनसिनाटी 's उर्जा company, cinergy निगम.
In 2001, to make room for Great American Ball पार्क, the seating capacity at Cinergy Field was घटाया to 39,000.
वहीँ थी a huge wall in Center Field दृश्य after the renovations, to serve as the batter 's eye.
the स्टेडियम थी demolished by implosion on December 29, 2002.
nexen टायर is a टायर निर्माता, headquartered in Yangsan, South Gyeongsang Province, और Seoul, both in दक्षिण कोरियाई.
Its major घरेलू प्रतिस्पर्धी हैं hankook Tire और Kumho Tires.
the company 's name is reflected in the company slogan, `` अगला सदी Tire. ''
The silent बहुमत is an अनिर्दिष्ट large majority of people in a country or group who do नहीं express उनके opinions सरेआम.
The पद was popularized ( हालांकि not पहला used ) by U.S. President Richard निक्सन in a November 3, 1969, speech in जिससे he कहा, `` और so tonight—to you, the great silent बहुमत of my fellow Americans—I ask for your support. ''
In this usage it referred to those अमेरिकी who किया not जुड़ें in the large demonstrations विरूद्ध the Vietnam War at the time, who did not जुड़ें in the counterculture, और who किया not participate in पब्लिक discourse.
निक्सन along with many others देखी इस group of मध्य Americans as होने निष्प्रभ in the media by the अधिक गायन अल्पसंख्यक.
the phrase थी used in the 19th सदी as a euphemism referring to सब the people जो have died, और others have used it पहले और बाद Nixon to refer to groups of मतदाता in various nations of the संसार.
sam, a rhesus मंकी, उड़ाया to an altitude of 88 km in 1959.
( NASA )
Before इंसानो गई into स्पेस, अनेक animals यहूद शुभारम्भ into space, सहित numerous बंदरों, so that वैज्ञानिकों could investigate the biological प्रभाव of स्पेस सफर.
the United राज्य शुभारम्भ फ़्लाइट containing primate cargo primarily between 1948-1961 with one flight in 1969 and one in 1985.
France शुभारम्भ two monkey-carrying flights in 1967.
The Soviet Union और रूस शुभारम्भ बंदरों between 1983 and 1996.
Most monkeys were anesthetized before lift-off.
overall thirty-two monkeys उड़ाया in the स्पेस program ; none flew more than एकबार.
Numerous back-up monkeys भी गई through the कार्यक्रम लकिन never उड़ाया.
Monkeys from अनेक species were प्रयुक्त, सहित rhesus बंदरों, cynomolgus monkeys, गिलहरी monkeys, and pig-tailed macaques.
Some chimpanzees ( जिससे are apes बल्कि than monkeys ) यहूद भी प्रयुक्त.
RAID ( redundant array of independent डिस्क, originally redundant array of inexpensive disks ) is a भंडार technology that combines multiple disk drive components into a logical unit.
आंकड़ा is distributed across the drives in one of several तरीके पुकारा `` RAID levels '', depending on the level of अतिरेक और performance required.
the term `` रेड '' was पहला पारिभाषित by David Patterson, Garth A. गिब्सन, and Randy Katz at the University of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, बर्कली in 1987.
विपणक representing industry रेड manufacturers बाद attempted to reinvent the term to describe a redundant array of independent डिस्क as a अर्थात् of disassociating a low-cost expectation from रेड technology.
RAID is now used as an छतरियाँ term लिये computer आंकड़ा storage schemes कि can divide और replicate data among अनेक शारीरिक ड्राइव : रेड is an example of storage virtualization और the array can be पहुँचा by the ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली as one single ड्राइव.
The अलग योजनाएं or architectures are named by the शब्द रेड followed by a क्रमांक ( e.g. RAID 0, रेड 1 ).
प्रत्येक scheme provides a अलग balance between the key goals : reliability and availability, performance and capacity.
RAID levels greater than रेड 0 provide सुरक्षा against unrecoverable ( sector ) पढ़ा त्रुटियाँ, as खूब as पूरे डिस्क failure.
a lymphocyte is a type of श्वेत blood cell in the vertebrate immune system.
अंतर्गत the microscope, lymphocytes can be divided into विशाल lymphocytes and small lymphocytes.
Large granular lymphocytes include natural killer कोशिकाएं ( NK cells ).
Small lymphocytes consist of t कोशिकाएं and B कोशिकाएं.
The Big Lebowski is a 1998 dark कॉमेडी फिल्मी लिखा और directed by Joel and ethan कोएन.
जेफ़ पुलों stars as Jeff Lebowski, an unemployed Los एंजिल्स slacker और avid बॉलर, nicknamed `` the Dude. ''
After a मामला of mistaken पहचान, The यार is introduced to a करोड़पति भी named Jeffrey lebowski.
जब the करोड़पति Lebowski 's trophy wife is later kidnapped, he आयोग The Dude to deliver the फिरौती to secure her रिलीज.
The योजना goes awry when The Dude 's friend वाल्टर sobchak ( John गुडमैन ) schemes to keep the full ransom.
Steve buscemi, Philip Seymour Hoffman, दाउद Huddleston, julianne मूर, tara Reid, and जॉन Turturro also star in the film, जिससे is narrated by a cowboy ज्ञात only as `` The अजनबी '', played by sam Elliott.
The film is loosely inspired by the कार्य of Raymond Chandler.
जोएल कोएन stated : `` we चाही to do a चांडलर दयालु of story – how it moves episodically, and deals साथ the वर्ण trying to unravel a mystery, as खूब as having a hopelessly complex प्लाट that 's ultimately महत्वहीन. ''
the original स्कोर थी composed by Carter Burwell, a longtime collaborator of the कोएन भाइयो.
the Big Lebowski was a निराशा at the U.S. बक्सा office and received mixed reviews at the समय of इसके रिलीज.
Reviews have trended towards the positive over time, and the film has become a cult पसंदीदा, noted for its idiosyncratic characters, dream sequences, unconventional संवाद, and eclectic साउंडट्रैक.
सेवेरस Snape is a fictional अक्षर in the Harry कुम्हार book series written by j.K. Rowling.
in the first novel of the series, he is hostile toward Harry and is built up to be the primary antagonist until the फाइनल अध्याय.
As the series progresses, Snape 's अक्षर becomes more layered and complex.
Rowling does नहीं fully reveal the details of his true loyalties until the end of the final book, Harry Potter और the Deathly Hallows.
Over the कोर्स of the series, snape 's portrayal evolves इससे that of a malicious and partisan टीचर to कि of a pivotal character of considerable complexity and moral ambiguity.
Snape primarily teaches potions at हॉग्वार्ट्स, though in the sixth novel he teaches रक्षा Against the Dark कला, a स्थिति जिससे he थी known to have desired throughout the series.
He ultimately becomes Headmaster of Hogwarts in the फाइनल novel.
Rowling has described उसे as `` a तोहफा of a character ''.
Grits refers to a ground-corn food of देशी अमरीकी उत्पत्ति, कि is common in the Southern संयुक्त States and mainly eaten at breakfast.
Modern grits हैं commonly made of alkali-treated corn known as hominy.
Grits are similar to अन्य मोटा maize-based porridges इससे around the world such as polenta or the thinner farina.
`` तत्काल grits '' have been processed to speed cooking.
the शब्द `` grits '' derives इससे the Old English शब्द `` grytt, '' अर्थ coarse meal.
इस word originally referred to wheat and अन्य porridges अभी known as groats in parts of the u.K..
Maize, अनजान in Europe in the Middle Ages, is a खाना निकला from corn ( a नई World plant ) and `` मकई '' had been used to describe wheat products in अनेक यूरोपीय regions.
`` Grits '' may be either singular or बहुवचन ; historically, in the American South the word was invariably singular notwithstanding its बहुवचन form ( cf. such food names as `` spaghetti '' or `` linguine '', likewise plural in रूप, but singular in उपयोग ).
Sometimes, grits हैं called sofkee or sofkey ( from a native American Muskogee word ).
In molecular जीवविज्ञान, human chorionic gonadotropin ( hcg ) is a hormone produced by the fertilized अंडा after conception.
Later दौरान गर्भावस्था it is made by the developing placenta, and later by the placental घटक syncytiotrophoblast.
Some cancerous tumors produce इस हार्मोन ; इसलिए, elevated स्तर measured when the रोगी is नहीं pregnant can सीसे to a कर्कट diagnosis.
However, it is not known whether this उत्पादन is a contributing कारण or an effect of tumorigenesis.
The pituitary analogue of hcg, known as luteinizing हार्मोन ( LH ), is उत्पादित in the pituitary gland of males and females of all ages.
, the FDA has निषिद्ध the sale of `` homeopathic '' और over the counter hCG diet उत्पाद and घोषित them बेईमान and illegal.
The Las Vegas Strip World of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated नरम पेय sold in stores, restaurants, and vending machines in प्रत्येक country except Cuba और North कोरियाई.
it is उत्पादित by The coca-cola Company of Atlanta, Georgia, और is often referred to बस as कोक ( a registered ट्रेडमार्क of the Coca-Cola Company in the संयुक्त राज्य since कूच 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a patent आयुर्विज्ञान when it थी invented in the लेट 19th सदी by John pemberton, Coca-Cola was खरीदा out by बिजनेसमैन Asa griggs Candler, whose विपणन tactics led Coke to इसके दबदबा of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century.
The company produces concentrate, which is then sold to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the संसार.
The bottlers, who थाम territorially exclusive contracts साथ the कम्पनी, उपज finished product in cans and बोतलों from the concentrate in combination साथ filtered water and sweeteners.
the bottlers तब sell, वितरित and merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores और vending machines.
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola उद्यमों, which is the largest single Coca-Cola bottler in North America and western यूरोपीय.
the Coca-Cola कम्पनी भी बिकता concentrate लिये सोडा स्रोतों to major रेस्तरां और food सेवा distributors.
The Coca-Cola Company has, on occasion, introduced other cola drinks under the कोक ब्रांड name.
The सबसे common of these is Diet Coke, साथ अन्य including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola, आहार Coke Caffeine-Free, Coca-Cola Cherry, Coca-Cola शून्य, Coca-Cola Vanilla, और special versions with lemon, लाइम or coffee.
Based on interbrand 's बेहतरीन वैश्विक brand 2011, Coca-Cola थी the संसार 's most मूल्यवान brand.
An ombudsman is an official, प्रायः appointed by the government or by parliament but साथ a significant उपाधि of स्वतंत्रता, जो is चार्ज with representing the रूचि of the public by investigating and addressing complaints of maladministration or violation of rights.
In some countries an Inspector सामान्य, Citizen एडवोकेट or other आधिकारिक may have कर्तव्य समान to those of a national ombudsman, and may भी be appointed by the legislature.
Below the national level an ombudsman may be appointed by a राज्य, local or municipal सरकारी, और unofficial ombudsmen may be appointed by, or भी work for, a निगम such as a utility supplier or a समाचारपत्र, for an NGO, or for a पेशेवर regulatory देह.
whether appointed by the विधानमंडल, the कार्यपालिका, or an organization ( or, less frequently, elected by the constituency that he or वो serves ), the ठेठ कर्तव्य of an ombudsman are to investigate complaints and attempt to resolve उन्हें, प्रायः through recommendations ( बाइंडिंग or not ) or mediation.
Ombudsmen sometimes also उद्देश्य to पहचानो systemic issues अग्रणी to poor service or breaches of लोगों 's rights.
at the नेशनल level, most ombudsmen have a wide mandate to deal साथ the entire पब्लिक sector, और sometimes भी elements of the private sector ( for उदाहरण, contracted सेवा प्रदाताओं ).
in some cases, वहीँ is a more प्रतिबंधित mandate, लिये example with particular सेक्टर of society.
अधिक recent developments have included the सृष्टि of specialised Children 's ombudsman और Information Commissioner एजेंसियों.
In कुछ jurisdictions an ombudsman charged with the हैंडलिंग of concerns परिचय national government is अधिक formally referred to as the `` Parliamentary कमिश्नर '' ( e.g. the संयुक्त Kingdom संसदीय Commissioner for Administration, and the पश्चिमी Australian state ombudsman ).
in अनेक देशों जहाँ the ombudsman 's remit extends परे dealing साथ alleged maladministration to promoting और protecting human अधिकारों, the ombudsman is recognised as the नेशनल human अधिकारों संस्था.
the पोस्ट of ombudsman था by the समाप्त of the 20th century been instituted by most governments and by कुछ intergovernmental organizations ऐसे as the European संघ.
Making a complaint to an ombudsman is usually free of charge.
चिह्न at georgetown University वॉशिंगटन dc
Sign in बांजुल, The गाम्बिया
Autumn in नई इंग्लैण्ड, watercolor, Maurice prendergast.
ca. 1910–1913
पतन foliage in the town of Stowe, Vermont
New इंग्लैण्ड is a region in the northeastern corner of the संयुक्त States consisting of the छह राज्य of Maine, नई Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, और कनेक्टिकट.
नई England is bordered by नई York राज्य to the दक्षिणपश्चिम, क्यूबेक to the उत्तरपश्चिम, and नई Brunswick and the Atlantic समंदर to the ईस्ट.
In एक of the earliest English settlements in North America, Pilgrims from England पहला settled in New इंग्लैण्ड in 1620, to रूप Plymouth Colony.
टेन years later, the Puritans settled north of plymouth उपनिवेश in बोस्टन, यूँ forming Massachusetts खाड़ी उपनिवेश.
Over the next 130 years, New England fought in four फ्रेंच और भारतीय युद्धों, until the British defeated the French and उनके native allies in North America.
in the late 18th सदी, the New England Colonies initiated the प्रतिरोध to the British Parliament 's प्रयत्न to impose new कर बगैर the consent of the colonists.
the बोस्टन Tea Party was a विरोध to which ग्रेट Britain responded साथ a series of दंडात्मक कानून stripping Massachusetts of self-government, which यहूद termed the `` असहनीय Acts `` by the colonists.
The confrontation led to open warfare in 1775, the expulsion of the अंग्रेजों अधिकारियों इससे New England in वसन्त 1776, and the Declaration of Independence in July 1776.
Some of the पहला आंदोलनों of American literature, philosophy, और education originated in New इंग्लैण्ड.
The प्रदेश played a prominent भूमिका in the movement to abolish slavery, and was the पहला region of the संयुक्त राज्य to be रूपांतरित by the Industrial क्रान्ति.
Today, New इंग्लैण्ड is a major world बीच of education, ऊँची technology, बीमे, and आयुर्विज्ञान.
बोस्टन is its cultural, financial, शैक्षणिक, medical and परिवहन center.
प्रत्येक राज्य is प्रधानतया subdivided into small incorporated municipalities known as नई England towns, which are often governed by town meeting.
The only unincorporated territory in नई England exists in the sparse, northern regions of Vermont, New हैम्पशायर, and Maine.
चूंकि 1970, voters have अधिक often supported liberal candidates at the state and संघीय level than those of any other प्रदेश in the संयुक्त राज्य.
New इंग्लैण्ड is the तभी one of the संयुक्त States Census Bureau 's nine क्षेत्रीय विभाजन जिनकी name does नहीं derive from इसके geography, और it is the only multi-state प्रदेश with साफ, सतत boundaries.
It maintains a दमदार sense of सांस्कृतिक पहचान नियत apart इससे the rest of the country, हालांकि the terms of इस पहचान हैं often contested, combining Puritanism with उदारतावाद, कृषिक जीवन साथ उद्योग, और isolation साथ आव्रजन.
आपात !
is an American television श्रेणी that combines the medical drama और action-adventure genres.
It थी produced by Mark सात Limited and वितरित by सार्वभौमिक studios.
It debuted as a midseason बदलना on जनवरी 15, 1972, on NBC, replacing the two short-lived श्रेणी The Partners और the शुभ जीवन, और ran until सितंबर 3, 1977, साथ छह अतिरिक्त two-hour टेलीविज़न films during the following two सालो.
Emergency !
थी निर्मित and produced by Jack Webb and रॉबर्ट A. Cinader, both of whom were also responsible लिये the police dramas adam-12 and Dragnet.
The Eastern समय Zone ( ET ) encompasses 17 u.S. राज्य in the eastern part of the contiguous संयुक्त राज्य, parts of कनाडा and three देशों in दक्षिण अमेरिका.
Places कि use Eastern मानक Time ( EST ) जब observing standard time ( autumn/winter ) हैं 5 घंटों पीछे समन्वित सार्वभौमिक Time ( ).
Eastern Daylight Time ( EDT ), when observing daylight saving time ( spring/summer ) is 4 घंटों behind Coordinated Universal समय ( ).
in the northern भाग of the time zone, दौरान the दूसरी संडे in March, at 2:00 a.m. est, clocks are उन्नत to 3:00 a.m. EDT leaving a one घंटा `` gap. ''
During the first Sunday in November, at 2:00 a.m. EDT, घड़ियाँ are स्थानांतरित back to 1:00 a.m. est, यूँ `` duplicating '' एक घंटा.
Southern parts of the zone ( पनामा and the Caribbean ) do नहीं observe daylight saving.
मानक रूप of the periodic table.
The colors represent different श्रेणी of elements समझाया below.
The periodic table is a tabular display of the chemical तत्व, organized on the आधार of their atomic numbers, इलेक्ट्रॉन configurations, और पुनरावर्ती chemical properties.
तत्व हैं प्रस्तुत in order of increasing परमाणु क्रमांक ( number of protons ).
The standard रूप of table comprises an 18 × 7 grid or प्रमुख body of तत्व, positioned above a छोटी दोगुना पंक्ति of elements.
The तालिका can भी be deconstructed into four rectangular ब्लॉक : the s-block to the left, the p-block to the right, the d-block in the मध्य, and the f-block below कि.
the rows of the तालिका हैं called अवधि ; the कालम of the s-, d-, और p-blocks are called समूह, with कुछ of these having names such as the हैलोजन्स or the प्रतिष्ठित gases.
चूंकि, by परिभाषा, a periodic तालिका incorporates पुनरावर्ती trends, कोई ऐसे table can be प्रयुक्त to derive relationships between the properties of the elements और predict the गुण of new, yet to be खोजा or synthesized, तत्व.
As a परिणाम, a periodic table—whether in the standard form or कुछ other variant—provides a useful framework लिये analyzing chemical बर्ताव, और ऐसे tables हैं widely used in रसायन और अन्य sciences.
Although precursors मौजूद, Dmitri Mendeleev is generally credited with the प्रकाशन, in 1869, of the पहला widely recognized periodic तालिका.
he developed उसके table to illustrate periodic रुझान in the गुण of the then-known elements.
Mendeleev भी predicted some properties of then-unknown elements कि would be अपेक्षित to fill gaps in इस table.
Most of his predictions यहूद proved correct when the elements in question were subsequently खोजा.
Mendeleev 's periodic table रै since महरूम विस्तारित और refined with the डिस्कवरी or synthesis of further new तत्व और the विकास of नई theoretical मॉडल to बताइये chemical behavior.
सब तत्व इससे atomic numbers 1 ( हाइड्रोजन ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have been discovered or synthesized.
the elements इससे 1 to 98 ( californium ) have महरूम मिला to exist naturally, although some are मिला only in trace amounts and were initially discovered by संश्लेषण in laboratories.
The elements after 98 have only been synthesized in laboratories.
Production of elements परे ununoctium is being pursued, with the question of कैसा the periodic table may need to be modified to accommodate कोई ऐसे additions being a matter of जारी debate.
numerous सिंथेटिक radionuclides of naturally occurring elements have also been उत्पादित in laboratories.
Minecraft is a सैंडबॉक्स इंडी game originally created by स्वीडिश प्रोग्रामर Markus `` Notch '' Persson and बाद विकसित और published by mojang.
It was publicly released for the pc on May 17, 2009, as a developmental alpha version and, after gradual updates, was published as a full रिलीज version on नवम्बर 18, 2011.
A version for Android थी released a month earlier on अक्तूबर 7, and an iOS version थी released on November 17, 2011.
On may 9, 2012, the game थी released on एक्सबॉक्स 360 as an Xbox सजीव Arcade game, co-developed by 4j Studios.
सब versions of minecraft receive आवधिक updates.
The रचनात्मक and भवन aspects of minecraft allow players to build constructions out of textured घन in a 3D procedurally generated world.
Other activities in the खेल include खोजी, gathering resources, crafting और combat.
Gameplay in its commercial रिलीज रै two principal मोड्स : survival, जिससे requires players to acquire संसाधन and maintain their health और hunger ; और creative, where खिलाड़ी have an असीमित supply of संसाधन, the ability to मक्खी, और no स्वास्थ्य or भूख.
a third gameplay mode named hardcore is the same as survival, differing तभी in difficulty ; it is नियत to hardest सेटिंग और respawning is disabled, forcing players to delete their worlds upon मौत.
minecraft प्राप्त पाँच पुरस्कार from the 2011 Game डेवलपर सम्मेलन : it was awarded the Innovation पुरस्कार, बेहतरीन Downloadable Game पुरस्कार, और the बेहतरीन Debut खेल पुरस्कार from the खेल Developers Choice पुरस्कार ; and the दर्शक पुरस्कार, as well as the seumas McNally ग्रैंड Prize, from the स्वतंत्र Games Festival in 2011.
In 2012, Minecraft was awarded a सुनहरी Joystick Award in the श्रेणी Best Downloadable Game.
As of अप्रैल 8, 2013, the game has sold over 10 लाख copies on PC and as of जनवरी 22, 2013, over 20 million नक़ल across all प्लेटफ़ॉर्म.
the Dark नाईट is a 2008 British-American superhero film निर्देशित, produced, and co-written by Christopher Nolan.
आधारित on the dc Comics character Batman, the film is the second part of नोलन 's Batman film श्रेणी और a sequel to 2005 's बैटमैन Begins.
Christian Bale reprises the lead role of ब्रूस wayne/batman, with a returning डाल of Michael Caine as Alfred pennyworth, Gary Oldman as James गॉर्डन and Morgan फ्रीमैन as लुसियस फॉक्स.
the film introduces the character of घनघोर Dent ( आरोन eckhart ), Gotham 's newly elected ज़िला Attorney और the consort of Bruce Wayne 's बाल्यकाल dost रेचल Dawes ( मैगी जिलएनहॉल ), जो joins बैटमैन and the police in combating the नई उठती threat of a दण्ड mastermind calling himself `` the Joker `` ( Heath Ledger ).
नोलन 's inspiration for the film was the Joker 's comic book debut in 1940, the 1988 graphic novel, और the 1996 श्रेणी, which retold Two-Face 's origin.
the nickname `` the Dark Knight '' was पहला लागू to Batman in Batman no. 1 ( 1940 ), in a स्टोरी लिखा by Bill उंगली.
The Dark नाईट was filmed primarily in शिकागो, as खूब as in several other स्थितियाँ in the United States, the संयुक्त किंगडम, और Hong काँग.
नोलन प्रयुक्त an IMAX camera to फिल्मी some sequences, including the जोकर 's first रूप in the film.
On जनवरी 22, 2008, कुछ महीने after he had completed फिल्मांकन on The अंधेरा Knight and six months before the फिल्मी 's रिलीज, झाड़ Ledger died from a विषाक्त संयोजन of नुस्खा drugs, अग्रणी to intense attention from the press and movie-going पब्लिक.
warner Bros. had initially created a viral marketing campaign लिये the अंधेरा नाईट, विकासशील promotional websites and trailers highlighting screen shots of Ledger as the Joker, लकिन after लेजर 's death, the studio refocused इसके promotional campaign.
the Dark Knight थी released on July 16, 2008 in Australia, on July 18, 2008 in उत्तर America, और on जुलाई 24, 2008 in the United किंगडम.
Considered one of the best films of the 2000s and एक of the बेहतरीन superhero films कभी बना, the फिल्मी प्राप्त highly positive समीक्षाएँ and set numerous records during इसके theatrical चलाएं.
साथ over $ 1 अरब in revenue विश्वव्यापी, it is the 14th-highest-grossing फिल्मी of सब time, unadjusted लिये inflation.
The फिल्मी received आठ Academy Award nominations ; it won the award for Best ध्वनि Editing और Ledger थी posthumously awarded बेहतरीन Supporting Actor.
the Dark Knight Rises, the final भाग of the trilogy, was released on जुलाई 20, 2012.
the समयरेखा of radio lists भीतर the इतिहास of रेडियो, the प्रौद्योगिकी and events कि produced यंत्र कि use radio waves and activities that people undertook.
Later, the history is वर्चस्व by प्रोग्रामिंग and contents, जिससे is closer to सामान्य history.
the Sydney Opera House is a multi-venue performing arts centre in New South वेल्स, Australia.
It was conceived and largely built by Danish वास्तु jørn Utzon, opening in 1973 after a long gestation कि began with उसके competition-winning डिज़ाइन in 1957.
Joseph Cahill 's New South Wales सरकारी gave the go-ahead लिये work to begin in 1958.
The government 's bold decision to चुनें utzon 's design is often overshadowed by the scandal that followed.
It is on Bennelong Point in सिडनी Harbour, बंद to the Sydney Harbour Bridge.
it sits at the northeastern tip of the Sydney central कारोबार district ( the सीबीडी ), surrounded on three पहलू by the harbour ( Sydney कोव and फार्म Cove ) and अंतर्देशीय by the royal Botanic Gardens.
Contrary to its name, it घरों अनेक प्रदर्शन venues.
it is among the busiest performing कला centres in the world, होस्टिंग over 1,500 प्रदर्शन each year attended by कुछ 1.2 million लोगों.
It provides a venue for अनेक performing-arts companies, सहित the four कुंजी निवासी कंपनियाँ Opera Australia, the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई बैले, the सिडनी Theatre Company and the Sydney Symphony Orchestra, and presents a wide range of productions on its अपना account.
it is भी one of the सबसे popular visitor attractions in Australia, साथ अधिक than सात million people visiting प्रत्येक साल, 300,000 of जिसको take a guided tour.
it is administered by the सिडनी ओपेरा House Trust, under the New दक्षिण Wales Ministry of the कला.
On 28 जून 2007, it was बना a युनेस्को World Heritage Site.
It is एक of the 20th सदी 's most distinctive इमारतें and one of the सबसे famous performing कला centres in the world.
a आलेख of body द्रव्यमान index as a फलन of देह mass and देह height is shown ऊपर.
the dashed lines represent subdivisions भीतर a प्रमुख क्लास.
For instance the `` underweight '' वर्गीकरण is further विभाजित into `` severe '', `` moderate '', and `` mild '' subclasses.
The देह mass index ( BMI ), or Quetelet index, is a माप for human देह shape based on an individual 's weight और ऊँचाई.
it थी devised between 1830 and 1850 by the Belgian polymath Adolphe Quetelet दौरान the course of developing `` सोशल भौतिकी ''.
देह mass अनुक्रमणिका is पारिभाषित as the व्यक्तिगत 's body द्रव्यमान विभाजित by the square of their height.
The formulae universally used in आयुर्विज्ञान produce a unit of measure of kg/m2.
बीएमआई can also be determined using a BMI chart, which प्रदर्शक बीएमआई as a फलन of weight ( आड़ा axis ) और ऊँचाई ( vertical अक्ष ) using contour लाइनों for अलग values of बीएमआई or रंगों लिये अलग BMI categories.
† The फ़ैक्टर लिये uk/us units is अधिक precisely 703.06957964, but that level of precision is नहीं meaningful for this गणना.
To work इससे stone and pounds first multiply the stone by 14 तब add the पाउंड to give the पूरे द्रव्यमान in पाउंड ; to work इससे feet and inches first गुणा the feet by 12 तब add the inches to दे the पूरे ऊँचाई in इंच.
Thomas Paine ( January 29, 1737 ( ns February 9, 1737 ) – June 8, 1809 ) was an English-American राजनैतिक activist, author, political theorist and revolutionary.
as the author of दो अत्यधिक influential pamphlets at the start of the American Revolution, he inspired the Patriots in 1776 to घोषित independence from ब्रिटेन.
उसके ideas reflected आत्मज्ञान era बयानबाजी of transnational इंसान rights.
he रै been called `` a corsetmaker by trade, a journalist by व्यवसायिक, और a propagandist by inclination. ''
born in Thetford, England, in the काउंटी of Norfolk, paine emigrated to the British अमरीकी colonies in 1774 with the सहायता of Benjamin Franklin and he arrived in समय to participate in the अमरीकी क्रान्ति.
उसके principal contributions यहूद the powerful, widely read pamphlet आम भाव ( 1776 ), the all-time best-selling American book that advocated औपनिवेशिक America 's independence from the किंगडम of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, and The अमरीकी Crisis ( 1776–83 ), a pro-revolutionary pamphlet श्रेणी.
आम Sense was so influential that जॉन Adams said, `` Without the pen of the author of Common भाव, the sword of Washington होता have been raised in vain.”
Paine जिया in France लिये most of the 1790s, बनने deeply शामिल in the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति.
He लिखा the अधिकारों of man ( 1791 ), in part a defence of the French Revolution विरूद्ध इसके critics.
His attacks on अंग्रेजों लेखक Edmund Burke led to a trial and conviction in absentia in 1792 लिये the crime of seditious मानहानि.
In 1792, despite not being समर्थ to speak फ्रेंच, he was elected to the French National Convention.
the girondists regarded उसे as an ally.
नतीजतन, the Montagnards, especially Robespierre, regarded him as an दुश्मन.
In December 1793, he थी arrested and imprisoned in पेरिस, then released in 1794.
he became बदनाम because of The Age of कारण ( 1793–94 ), his किताब that advocates deism, promotes reason और freethinking, and argues विरूद्ध institutionalized धर्म in general and Christian doctrine in particular.
He also wrote the pamphlet Agrarian Justice ( 1795 ), discussing the origins of property, and introduced the concept of a गारंटी minimum income.
In 1802, he लौटे to America where he died on June 8, 1809.
Only छह लोगों attended his funeral as he had been ostracized for उसके ridicule of Christianity.
नैदानिक ट्रायल हैं सेट of परीक्षण in चिकित्सा research और drug development कि generate safety और efficacy आंकड़ा ( or more specifically, information परिचय adverse drug प्रतिक्रियाएँ और adverse effects of other उपचार ) for स्वास्थ्य interventions ( e.g., drugs, diagnostics, डिवाइस, therapy protocols ).
वे are conducted only after संतोषजनक information has महरूम gathered on the quality of the non clinical सुरक्षा, and health authority/ethics कमेटी approval is granted in the country where स्वीकृति of the drug or यंत्र is sought.
previously, many emerging countries किया not require लोकल trials for product approvals.
अभी, though emerging देशों still accept data इससे u.s./europe, they also आवश्यकता some local ट्रायल.
Depending on the type of product और the stage of its विकास, जांचकर्ताओं initially enroll स्वयंसेवक and/or patients into small pilot अध्ययन, and subsequently conduct larger स्केल studies in मरीजों that प्रायः compare the नई उत्पाद with अन्य already approved for the affliction of ब्याज.
As positive safety और efficacy data are gathered, the number of patients is typically increased.
नैदानिक trials can vary in आकार, and can involve a single research entity in एक country or many ऐसे entities in multiple countries.
A full श्रेणी of trials may incur sizable लागत, और the burden of paying for all the जरुरी लोगों और सेवाएं is प्रायः borne by the sponsor, जिससे may be a सरकारी organization or a फार्मास्युटिकल, biotechnology or medical यंत्र company.
When the विविधता of जरूरी support भूमिकाएँ exceeds the संसाधन of the sponsor, a clinical विचारण is प्रबंधित by an outsourced partner, such as a अनुबंध research संगठन or a नैदानिक ट्रायल ईकाई in the academic सेक्टर.
The ग्रीन खाड़ी Packers are an American football team आधारित in Green Bay, Wisconsin.
They हैं सदस्यों of the North प्रभाग of the National Football सम्मेलन ( NFC ) in the National फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( NFL ).
Green Bay is the third-oldest मताधिकार in the NFL, having been व्यवस्थित and playing in 1919.
The पैकर्स are the only non-profit, community-owned प्रमुख लीग professional खेल team in the संयुक्त States.
the Packers are the last vestige of `` small town टीमों '' कि were एकबार आम in the NFL during the 1920s और 1930s.
Founded in 1919 by अर्ल `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau Field on which the team plays ) और George Whitney Calhoun, the Green Bay Packers can trace their lineage to अन्य semi-professional teams in ग्रीन Bay dating back to 1896.
In 1919 और 1920 the Packers competed as a semi-professional football team against clubs इससे around Wisconsin और the मिडवेस्ट.
वे joined the American Professional Football Association ( apfa ) in 1921, the forerunner to कया is known today as the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League ( एनएफएल ).
Although Green Bay is the पिछला NFL `` छोटी कस्बा '' टोली, इसके local प्रशंसक base और media extends into nearby Milwaukee ; the team भी निभाई चयनित घर games there between 1933 और 1994.
The ग्रीन खाड़ी Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than कोई अन्य टोली in the NFL ), सहित नौ NFL championships prior to the Super कटोरी era and चार Super Bowl victories —in 1967 ( सुपर Bowl I ), 1968 ( Super Bowl ii ), 1997 ( Super कटोरी xxxi ) and 2011 ( सुपर Bowl xlv ).
The Packers have long-standing, कड़वा rivalries with their NFC North ( formerly the NFC Central ) opponents, the Chicago bears, Minnesota Vikings और the डेट्रॉयट शेर.
The Bears-Packers rivalry is one of the oldest rivalries in NFL history, dating back to 1921.
Ethanol fuel is ethanol ( ethyl दारू ), the same type of दारू found in alcoholic beverages.
it is most often प्रयुक्त as a motor ईंधन, मुख्यतः as a biofuel योगात्मक for gasoline.
World ethanol उत्पादन for transport fuel tripled between 2000 and 2007 from 17 billion to more than 52 billion liters.
इससे 2007 to 2008, the share of ethanol in global गैसोलीन type ईंधन उपयोग increased इससे 3.7 % to 5.4 %.
in 2011 worldwide इथेनॉल fuel production पहुँचे 22.36 अरब U.S. द्रव gallons ( bg ) ( 84.6 अरब liters ), with the United States as the top producer with 13.9 bg ( 52.6 billion liters ), accounting for 62.2 % of global उत्पादन, followed by Brazil with 5.6 bg ( 21.1 billion liters ).
Ethanol ईंधन रै a `` gasoline गैलन equivalency `` ( gge ) value of, जिससे अर्थात् 1.5 गैलन of इथेनॉल उपज the energy of एक gallon of gasoline.
Ethanol fuel is widely used in ब्राज़ील और in the United राज्य, और together both देशों were जिम्मेदार for 87.1 % of the world 's इथेनॉल fuel उत्पादन in 2011.
Most गाड़ियाँ on the road आज in the U.S. can चलाएं on मिश्रणों of up to 10 % ethanol, और इथेनॉल represented 10 % of the u.S. गैसोलीन ईंधन सप्लाई derived इससे domestic sources in 2011.
चूंकि 1976 the ब्राज़ीलियाई government has made it mandatory to मिश्रण ethanol साथ gasoline, और चूंकि 2007 the legal मिश्रण is around 25 % इथेनॉल और 75 % gasoline ( E25 ).
By दिसम्बर 2011 Brazil था a fleet of 14.8 लाख flex-fuel ऑटोमोबाइल और light trucks और 1.5 million flex-fuel motorcycles कि regularly उपयोग neat इथेनॉल ईंधन ( known as E100 ).
Bioethanol is a रूप of बेदर्दी उर्जा कि can be produced इससे agricultural feedstocks.
It can be made from very common crops such as शुगर cane, आलू, manioc and corn.
There has been considerable debate परिचय कैसा useful bioethanol will be in replacing गैसोलीन.
चिंताएं about its उत्पादन and use relate to increased खाना prices due to the विशाल राशि of arable land required for फसलों, as well as the energy and pollution संतुलन of the whole cycle of इथेनॉल production, especially from मकई.
Recent developments with cellulosic इथेनॉल उत्पादन and commercialization may allay कुछ of these concerns.
Cellulosic ethanol offers promise because cellulose मछली, a प्रमुख and universal component in plant cells दीवारें, can be used to उपज ethanol.
According to the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Energy Agency, cellulosic ethanol could allow इथेनॉल fuels to खेल a much बडे role in the भविष्य than previously विचार.
साब 9-3 sportcombi BioPower.
the second E85 flexifuel मॉडल introduced by Saab in the Swedish मार्केट.
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination और steps of Gavrilo Princip ( image लिया in 1987, before steps were removed in 1992 और plaque changed from Cyrillic to लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट )
A प्लैक commemorating the location of the साराजेवो हत्या ( image taken in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914, archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of Austria, वारिस presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian throne, and उसके बीवी, Sophie, Duchess of Hohenberg, were shot dead in Sarajevo, by gavrilo Princip, one of a group of छह Bosnian Serb हत्यारे coordinated by Danilo ilić.
the political objective of the assassination was to break off Austria-Hungary 's south-Slav provinces so they could be combined into a वृहद सर्बिया or a Yugoslavia.
the हत्यारे ' motives were consistent with the गति कि बाद became ज्ञात as Young बोस्निया.
Serbian military officers stood पीछे the attack.
At the top of these Serbian military षड्यंत्रकारियों was Chief of सर्बियाई Military प्रज्ञा Dragutin dimitrijević, उसके righthand man Major Vojislav Tankosić, और masterspy rade Malobabić.
Major tankosić armed the assassins with bombs and pistols और trained them.
The हत्यारे were given access to the same clandestine tunnel of safe-houses and एजेंटों that Rade Malobabić प्रयुक्त for the infiltration of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary.
The assassins, the कुंजी members of the clandestine टनल, and the कुंजी सर्बियाई military conspirators who यहूद स्टिल alive यहूद arrested, आजमाया, convicted and punished.
Those who यहूद arrested in बोस्निया were tried in Sarajevo in October 1914.
the other षड्यंत्रकारियों were गिरफ्तार and tried पहले a सर्बियाई kangaroo court on the french-controlled Salonika Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges ; Serbia चलाया तीन of the top सैन्य conspirators.
much of कया is known परिचय the assassinations comes from ये two trials और related records.
Assignment of responsibility for the bombing और हत्याएं of 28 June is highly विवादास्पद because the attack led to the outbreak of World War I एक month later.
Renée Kathleen Zellweger ( born April 25, 1969 ) is an अमरीकी actress and निर्माता.
Zellweger first gained फैली attention for उसके role in the film Jerry Maguire ( 1996 ), and subsequently received दो nominations for the अकादमी Award लिये Best Actress for her भूमिकाएँ as Bridget जोन्स in the कॉमेडी Bridget Jones 's Diary ( 2001 ), और as Roxie Hart in the musical शिकागो ( 2002 ).
She won the अकादमी Award लिये Best Supporting अभिनेत्री for उसके performance in the नाटक Cold पहाड़ ( 2003 ).
वो has won an Academy Award, तीन Golden Globe Awards, तीन Screen Actors Guild पुरस्कार, और a bafta पुरस्कार ; was नामित Hasty Pudding 's Woman of the Year in 2009 ; and established herself as एक of the highest-paid Hollywood अभिनेत्रियों as of 2007.
The ossicles ( also called auditory ossicles ) are the three smallest bones in the इंसान देह, the malleus, the incus और the stapes.
They हैं contained within the मध्य कान space और serve to transmit sounds from the air to the fluid-filled labyrinth ( cochlea ).
the absence of the auditory ossicles होता constitute a moderate-to-severe सुनना loss.
the पद `` ossicles '' literally अर्थात् `` छोटा bones '' and commonly refers to the auditory ossicles, हालांकि the पद may refer to any small bone throughout the body.
The नई Covenant ( Hebrew • • — Greek • • diatheke kaine ) is a biblical interpretation originally derived from a phrase in the किताब of यिर्मयाह, in the Hebrew Scriptures.
It is often thought of as an eschatological मुक्तिदाता आयु or world to आइये and is related to the biblical concept of the Kingdom of God.
generally, ईसाइयों believe कि the New Covenant थी instituted at the Last Supper as भाग of the Eucharist, which in the इन्जील of जॉन includes the New Commandment.
There are several Christian eschatologies कि further define the New वचन, as an उदाहरण an उदघाटन eschatology defines and describes the नई Covenant as an जारी relationship between Christian ईमानवालों और God that will be in full fruition after the Second Coming of मसीह ; कि is, it will नहीं only be in full fruition in believing hearts, but in the भविष्य external world as well.
The connection between the Blood of मसीह and the नई Covenant is seen in सबसे modern English translations of the नई Testament with the saying : `` this कप कि is poured आउट लिये you is the new वचन in my blood ''.
Christians believe that Jesus is the mediator of the New वचन, and that the रक्त of Christ shed at उसके crucifixion is the जरूरी blood of the वचन.
As साथ all covenants between God और man described in the Bible, the New वचन is माना `` a बंध in blood sovereignly administered by परमेश्वर. ''
it रै महरूम theorized that the New Covenant is the विधि of Christ as बोला दौरान his उपदेश on the माउंट.
The following List of people pardoned or granted दया by the अध्यक्ष of the United States documents the सबसे prominent cases of प्रत्येक प्रेसिडेंसी.
as granted by the संविधान ( Article II, Section 2, clause 1 ), Presidents have the power to grant clemency in one or more of the following तरीके : the ability to grant a पूरा pardon, to भ्रमण a sentence, or to तोड़ना a fine.
U.S. राष्ट्रपतियों have no power to ग्रान्ट clemency लिये अपराधों prosecuted under state law.
As to the difference between a pardon and a commutation:
a pardon is an कार्यपालिका order vacating a conviction.
A commutation is the शमन of the sentence of someone currently serving a वाक्य for a crime pursuant to a conviction, बगैर vacating the conviction itself.
लगभग 20,000 pardons and clemencies were issued by U.S. presidents in the 20th सदी अलोन.
The records of अधिनियमों of दया यहूद public जबतक 1934.
In 1981 the दफ्तर of the Pardon Attorney was created and records इससे अध्यक्ष H. W. Bush forward हैं अभी सूचीबद्ध.
This सूची शामिल pardons and commutations.
tampa ( ) is a city in the U.S. राज्य of Florida.
it serves as the county seat for Hillsborough County और is स्तिथ on the west coast of फ्लोरिडा, on Tampa Bay निकट the गल्फ of Mexico.
the जनसांख्यिकी of tampa in 2011 was 346,037.
The current location of Tampa थी once inhabited by indigenous peoples of the Safety Harbor culture, most notably the tocobaga और the pohoy, जो lived along the shores of tampa Bay.
it थी briefly छान by स्पेनी explorers in the early 16th century, but there यहूद no permanent अमरीकी or यूरोपीय settlements within आज 's city limits until बाद the संयुक्त राज्य had acquired फ्लोरिडा from Spain in 1819.
In 1824, the संयुक्त राज्य Army established a frontier outpost called फोर्ट ब्रुक at the mouth of the Hillsborough River, निकट the site of today 's Tampa Convention Center.
The पहला civilian residents were pioneers जो settled near the फोर्ट लिये protection इससे the आसपास seminole जनसांख्यिकी.
the town grew slowly जबतक the 1880s, when railroad links, the डिस्कवरी of phosphate, and the arrival of the cigar industry jump-started Tampa 's development and helped it to grow into an important city by the early 1900s.
Today, Tampa is a भाग of the metropolitan क्षेत्रफल सबसे commonly referred to as the tampa Bay Area.
For U.S. Census purposes, Tampa is भाग of the Tampa-St. Petersburg-Clearwater, Florida Metropolitan Statistical Area.
The four-county क्षेत्रफल is रचित of roughly 2.7 लाख निवासियों, बनाना it the second largest महानगर सांख्यिकीय area ( MSA ) in the राज्य, and the चौथी largest in the southeastern संयुक्त States, पीछे Miami, वॉशिंगटन, d.C., and Atlanta.
The वृहद Tampa खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल रै just over 4 million residents and generally includes the tampa and Sarasota मैट्रो areas.
the tampa Bay Partnership and u.S. Census आंकड़ा showed an औसत सालाना growth of 2.47 percent, or a gain of approximately 97,000 residents per year.
Between 2000 and 2006, the Greater Tampa खाड़ी Market अनुभवी a संयुक्त growth rate of 14.8 percent, growing from 3.4 लाख to 3.9 लाख and hitting the 4 लाख लोगों mark on April 1, 2007.
A 2012 estimate shows the tampa Bay area population to have 4,310,524 लोगों and a 2017 प्रक्षेप of 4,536,854 people.
tampa रै a number of खेल टीमों, ऐसे as the Tampa Bay buccaneers of the National Football League, the Tampa Bay Lightning of the National Hockey League, और the Tampa Bay तूफ़ान of the एरिना फ़ुटबॉल League.
the tampa खाड़ी Rays in प्रमुख League बेसबॉल and the Tampa खाड़ी Rowdies of the North American Soccer लीग play their home खेल in neighboring St. Petersburg, Florida.
in 2008, tampa थी ranked as the 5th best बाहरी नगर by Forbes.
A 2004 सर्वेक्षण by the NYU newspaper वॉशिंगटन वर्गाकार News क्रमित Tampa as a top city for `` twenty-somethings. ''
Tampa is अभी ranked as a `` गामा '' संसार नगर by Loughborough University.
According to Loughborough, Tampa ranks alongside other world cities such as Phoenix, Santo डोमिंगो, and ओसाका.
in recent years Tampa has seen a notable upsurge in high-market माँग इससे उपभोक्ता, signaling more wealth concentrated in the area.
Tampa hosted the 2012 रिपब्लिकन नेशनल सम्मेलन.
the Chevrolet cavalier थी a compact ऑटोमोबाइल produced इससे 1982 to 2005 by General Motors.
Built on the कम्पनी 's J मंच, the cavalier produced the highest sales in 1984.
at & T Mobility llc branded and referred to as AT & t ( formerly Cingular बेतार LLC ), is a wholly स्वामित्व subsidiary of at & t Inc. that provides wireless services to 107 लाख subscribers in the United States, including Puerto रीको and the U.S. Virgin आइलैंड्स.
AT & T गतिशीलता is the दूसरी largest बेतार telecommunications provider in the संयुक्त States और प्यूर्टो Rico, behind Verizon Wireless, which serves 115.78 million customers as of the चौथी क्वार्टर of 2012.
at & T Mobility is headquartered in the Lenox पार्क area of DeKalb co. जॉर्जिया, just outside Atlanta.
Originally Cingular Wireless llc from 2000 to 2007, a joint venture between sbc संचार and BellSouth, the company acquired the बूढ़ा AT & t Wireless in 2004 ; sbc बाद acquired the original AT & t and re-branded as `` AT & T ''.
Cingular became wholly स्वामित्व by AT & t in दिसम्बर 2006 as a result of at & T 's अधिग्रहण of bellsouth.
in January 2007, cingular confirmed it would re-brand itself अंतर्गत the AT & T name.
हालांकि the legal corporate नाम change occurred immediately, for दोनो नियामक और brand-awareness reasons both ब्रांड्स were प्रयुक्त in the कम्पनी 's signage और विज्ञापन दौरान a परिवर्तन period.
The परिवर्तन concluded in late June, just prior to the rollout of the Apple iPhone.
on March 20, 2011, AT & T गतिशीलता घोषित its intention to acquire t-mobile यूएसए इससे Deutsche Telekom लिये $ 39 अरब.
If it था received government और नियामक approval, AT & T would have था more than 130 million subscribers.
However, the U.S. Department of इंसाफ, the संघीय Communications Commission, and at & t Mobility 's competitors ( ऐसे as Sprint Nextel ) opposed the मूव on the grounds that it होता reduce प्रतियोगिता in the cellular संचार market.
In December 2011, in the फेस of both governmental and फैली consumer विपक्ष, AT & T withdrew their प्रस्ताव to पूरा the विलय.
मार्टिन लूथर किंग, jr. ( January 15, 1929 – अप्रैल 4, 1968 ) थी an अमरीकी clergyman, activist, और leader in the African-American Civil Rights Movement.
He is बेहतरीन known लिये his role in the उन्नति of सिविल rights using nonviolent civil disobedience.
King रै become a national icon in the history of अमरीकी प्रगतिवाद.
A बैपटिस्ट minister, किंग became a civil rights activist जल्दी in his career.
He led the 1955 मोंटगोमरी Bus Boycott and helped found the Southern ईसाई Leadership सम्मेलन ( SCLC ) in 1957, सेवारत as इसके पहला अध्यक्ष.
With the SCLC, किंग led an unsuccessful संघर्ष against पृथक्करण in Albany, जॉर्जिया, in 1962, और organized nonviolent विरोध in Birmingham, अलबामा, that आकर्षित national ध्यान following television न्यूज कवरेज of the क्रूर police response.
King also helped to organize the 1963 March on वॉशिंगटन, जहाँ he delivered उसके `` I have a सपना `` वाक.
There, he established his reputation as एक of the greatest orators in American इतिहास.
He also established उसके reputation as a radical, और became an ऑब्जेक्ट of the Federal Bureau of Investigation 's COINTELPRO for the rest of उसके life.
FBI एजेंटों investigated उसे for possible कम्युनिस्ट ties, recorded his extramarital liaisons और reported on उन्हें to government officials, और on एक अवसर, mailed King a threatening बेनाम letter that he interpreted as an attempt to make उसे कमिट आत्महत्या.
On October 14, 1964, King received the नोबेल सलाम Prize लिये combating जातिगत inequality through nonviolence.
in 1965, he and the SCLC helped to व्यवस्थित the Selma to मोंटगोमरी marches और the following year, he took the गति उत्तर to Chicago.
In the फाइनल सालो of उसके जीवन, King expanded his फ़ोकस to include poverty और the Vietnam युद्ध, alienating अनेक of his liberal allies with a 1967 speech titled `` Beyond Vietnam ''.
King थी नियोजन a national occupation of वॉशिंगटन, D.C., पुकारा the Poor लोगों 's Campaign.
King was assassinated on April 4, 1968, in मेम्फिस, Tennessee.
उसके death was followed by दंगे in many U.S. cities.
Allegations that जेम्स Earl रे, the man convicted of हत्या किंग, था been framed or acted in concert with government agents persisted लिये दशकों after the shooting, और the जूरी of a 1999 civil विचारण found loyd Jowers to be complicit in a conspiracy against किंग.
King थी awarded the Presidential Medal of स्वतंत्रता and the Congressional Gold पदक मरणोपरांत.
Martin लूथर King, jr. Day was established as a U.S. संघीय अवकाश in 1986.
Hundreds of streets in the U.S. have been renamed in his honor.
A memorial प्रतिमा on the नेशनल Mall थी खोली to the public in 2011.
the बाघ ( Panthera tigris ) is the largest बिल्ली species, reaching a total body length of up to और weighing up to.
it is the तीसरा largest land carnivore ( behind only the polar भालू और the भूरा bear ).
इसके सबसे recognizable विशेषता is a pattern of अंधेरा vertical stripes on reddish-orange fur with a हल्का underside.
it has exceptionally stout दांत, and the canines हैं the longest among living felids with a क्राउन ऊँचाई of as much as or even.
in zoos, tigers have lived for 20 to 26 years, which भी seems to be उनके longevity in the wild.
They हैं territorial and generally solitary but social पशु, often requiring large contiguous areas of habitat that support their prey आवश्यकताएँ.
This, coupled साथ the फैक्ट that वे हैं स्वदेशी to some of the अधिक densely populated places on Earth, has caused significant conflicts साथ इंसानो.
Tigers एकबार ranged widely across Asia, from Turkey in the वेस्ट to the पूर्वी coast of Russia.
Over the पास्ट 100 years, they have lost 93 % of their historic range, और have been extirpated from दक्षिणपश्चिम and सेंट्रल एशिया, from the आइलैंड्स of Java और bali, and from विशाल areas of southeast और पूर्वी Asia.
Today, वे दायरा from the siberian ताइगा to खोलें grasslands and tropical mangrove swamps.
The बाकी six बाघ subspecies have महरूम classified as endangered by IUCN.
The वैश्विक population in the जंगली is estimated to number between 3,062 and 3,948 individuals, down इससे around 100,000 at the start of the 20th century, with सबसे remaining populations occurring in small pockets isolated from each अन्य.
Major reasons for जनसांख्यिकी decline include habitat destruction, habitat fragmentation and poaching.
The extent of क्षेत्रफल occupied by टाइगर्स is estimated at less than, a 41 % decline इससे the क्षेत्रफल estimated in the mid-1990s.
टाइगर्स हैं among the most recognisable and लोकप्रिय of the संसार 's charismatic महाप्राणी.
They have प्रदर्शित prominently in प्राचीन mythology and folklore, and continue to be depicted in आधुनिक films and literature.
Tigers appear on many flags, coats of arms, and as mascots लिये sporting टीमों.
the Bengal tiger is the national एनिमल of both इण्डिया and Bangladesh.
the सरलीकृत आतंरिक structure of a हरितलवक
अवलोकन of the Calvin cycle और carbon fixation
The light-independent प्रतिक्रियाएँ of photosynthesis are रासायनिक reactions कि बदलें carbon dioxide and other compounds into glucose.
These reactions occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled area of a chloroplast outside of the thylakoid membranes.
ये प्रतिक्रियाएँ take the light-dependent reactions और perform further chemical प्रक्रियाओं on them.
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions, collectively called the Calvin साईकिल : carbon fixation, reduction reactions, and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration.
despite इसके name, इस process occurs only जब light is available.
पौधे do not carry out the Calvin cycle by night.
They, instead, release sucrose into the phloem from उनके starch reserves.
इस process happens when light is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 carbon fixation, c4 carbon fixation, और crassulacean Acid चयापचय ) ; CAM पौधे स्टोर malic acid in their vacuoles every रात्रि और release it by day in अनुक्रम to make this प्रक्रम work.
A लिनेन handkerchief with pulled लड़ी embroidery around the किनारे
लिनेन cloth बरामद from Qumran Cave 1 near the मुर्दे Sea.
Linen ( ) is a textile made इससे the fibers of the flax plant, Linum usitatissimum.
Linen is labor-intensive to manufacture, लकिन जब it is बना into garments, it is valued for its असाधारण शीतलता and ताजगी in hot weather.
the शब्द `` linen '' is of West Germanic origin and cognates साथ the Latin नाम for the flax संयंत्र linum, and the पहले यूनानी λινόν ( linon ).
इस word history has दिए rise to a क्रमांक of other शर्तें in English, the most notable of जिससे is the अंग्रेज़ी word लकीर, निकला from the use of a linen ( flax ) thread to determine a सीधा लकीर.
वस्त्र in a लिनेन weave बनावट, भी when बना of cotton, hemp and अन्य non-flax fibers are also loosely referred to as `` लिनेन ''.
ऐसे fabrics generally have their own specific names अन्य than linen ; लिये example, fine cotton धागे in a linen-style बुनते is पुकारा Madapolam.
the collective term `` linens `` is still प्रायः used generically to describe a class of woven and भी knitted bed, bath, table और रसोईघर वस्त्र.
The name linens is retained because traditionally, linen थी used लिये many of ये items.
In the past, the शब्द `` linens '' थी also used to mean lightweight undergarments such as शर्ट, chemises, waistshirts, lingerie ( a शब्द भी cognate with लिनेन ), और detachable shirt छल्लों and cuffs, which were historically made almost exclusively out of linen.
The inside cloth layer of fine कम्पोजिट कपडे garments ( as लिये उदाहरण jackets ) was traditionally बना of लिनेन, और इस is the उत्पत्ति of the word अस्तर.
Linen textiles appear to be some of the oldest in the संसार : their इतिहास goes वापस many thousands of years.
fragments of straw, seeds, fibers, yarns, और various types of fabrics जिससे date back to परिचय 8000 BC have महरूम found in स्विस lake dwellings.
dyed flax fibers found in a प्रागैतिहासिक cave in Georgia सुझाएँ the उपयोग of woven linen fabrics from wild flax may date वापस even पहले to 36,000 BP.
Linen was sometimes प्रयुक्त as करेंसी in ancient Egypt.
मिश्र mummies यहूद लपेटा in linen क्युकी it was seen as a symbol of light और पवित्रता, और as a display of माल.
Some of these fabrics, woven from हाथ spun yarns, यहूद बहुत ठीक for उनके दिन, लकिन are coarse compared to modern linen.
Today, लिनेन is प्रायः an expensive textile, and is उत्पादित in अपेक्षाकृत छोटी quantities.
It रै a long `` स्टेपल '' ( individual fiber लंबाई ) relative to cotton and other प्राकृतिक मछली.
अनेक products are made of लिनेन : aprons, bags, तौलिये ( swimmers, bath, बीच, body और धो towels ), napkins, bed linens, linen चौके, धावक, कुर्सी कवर, and मेन 's & women 's wear.
The FIFA World कप, प्रायः बस the World Cup, is an international संघ football competition contested by the senior men 's नेशनल teams of the सदस्यों of fédération Internationale de फ़ुटबॉल संघ ( फीफा ), the sport 's global शासी body.
The चैंपियनशिप has महरूम awarded every four years चूंकि the inaugural tournament in 1930, except in 1942 and 1946 जब it was not आयोजित because of the दूसरी World युद्ध.
The current champions are Spain, who won the 2010 टूर्नामेंट.
The current स्वरूप of the टूर्नामेंट involves 32 teams स्पर्धा for the title at venues भीतर the host nation ( s ) over a period of about a माह ; इस phase is प्रायः पुकारा the World Cup Finals.
a योग्यता phase, which currently takes प्लेस over the preceding तीन सालो, is used to determine जिससे teams qualify for the tournament साथ with the मेजबान nation ( s ).
the 19 संसार कप tournaments have been won by eight अलग national teams.
ब्राज़ील have won पाँच times, और they हैं the तभी team to have played in every टूर्नामेंट.
The other World Cup winners हैं इटली, with चार titles ; Germany, with three शीर्षक ; Argentina and inaugural winners उरुग्वे, with two शीर्षक प्रत्येक ; और England, France, and स्पेन, साथ one शीर्षक each.
the World कप is the संसार 's most widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1 million people watched the final मैच of the 2006 FIFA संसार Cup held in Germany.
The अगला तीन World cups होगा be hosted by ब्राज़ील in 2014, रूस in 2018, और क़तर in 2022.
The is an expansion यंत्र लिये the Wii Remote वीडियो game controller लिये the Wii कि allows it to more accurately capture complex गति.
According to Nintendo, the सेंसर in the यंत्र supplements the accelerometer और Sensor बार capabilities of the वी Remote to enable actions to be rendered identically on the स्क्रीन in real time.
The Wii 's successor console, the Wii U, supports the वी MotionPlus and its peripherals in खेल जहाँ उपयोग of इसके touchscreen-built-in प्राथमिक नियंत्रक is नहीं जरुरी.
Majulah Singapura ( onward Singapore ) is the नेशनल anthem of Singapore.
रचित by zubir Said in 1958 as a theme song for आधिकारिक कृत्यों of the City Council of Singapore, the सोंग थी selected in 1959 as the island 's गान जब it attained self-government.
Upon पूरा independence in 1965, Majulah Singapura थी formally adopted as Singapore 's नेशनल anthem.
by विधि the गान may तभी be सुंग साथ इसके original मलय lyrics, although there exist authorized अनुवाद of the गीत of the anthem in Singapore 's three other आधिकारिक languages : अंग्रेज़ी, Mandarin and तमिल.
originally रचित in the key of G major, in 2001 the national गान थी officially relaunched in the lower कुंजी of f major as this was said to allow for a `` grander and more प्रेरणादायी arrangement ''.
the national anthem is regularly performed or sung in स्कूलों and हथियारबंद forces शिविरों at ceremonies held at the beginning and/or the end of each day, दौरान which the नेशनल flag is also raised and lowered and the नेशनल pledge is taken.
Singaporeans are especially encouraged to sing the national गान on अवसरों of national celebration or national significance ऐसे as at the National Day परेड, at National Day observance ceremonies conducted by शैक्षणिक institutions and सरकारी विभाग, और at sporting events at which Singapore teams हैं participating.
An expedition 's shipwrights building a brigantine, 1541.
Shipbuilding is the निर्माण of जहाजों and फ्लोटिंग बरतन.
it सामान्यतः takes प्लेस in a specialized facility ज्ञात as a shipyard.
shipbuilders, also called shipwrights, follow a specialized occupation कि traces its जड़ें to before recorded history.
Shipbuilding and ship मरम्मत, both वाणिज्यिक and military, हैं referred to as `` naval engineering ''.
The निर्माण of boats is a similar कार्यकलाप पुकारा boat building.
The dismantling of जहाजों is पुकारा ship तोड़कर.
wakonda is a town in Clay County, South Dakota, संयुक्त States.
the जनसांख्यिकी was 321 at the 2010 census.
The following is a list of the most populous incorporated स्थान of the संयुक्त राज्य of America.
As defined by the United राज्य जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो, an `` incorporated place `` includes a variety of designations, including नगर, कस्बा, village, बरो, और नगरपालिका.
A few असाधारण Census designated Places ( CDPs ) are भी शामिल in the जनसांख्यिकी Bureau 's लिस्टिंग of incorporated places.
संचित city-counties represent a पृथक type of government that शामिल the entire population of a काउंटी, or county समतुल्य.
Some consolidated city-counties, however, शामिल multiple incorporated स्थान.
This सूची presents only that portion ( or `` balance '' ) of ऐसे consolidated city-counties कि हैं not a part of another incorporated प्लेस.
Note कि this सूची refers only to the जनसांख्यिकी of व्यक्तिगत municipalities भीतर their defined हद, जिससे does not include other municipalities or unincorporated suburban areas within शहरी agglomerations.
A अलग ranking is evident जब considering u.S. महानगर क्षेत्रफल populations.
alt=larger flashcart, दिखाया साथ small card और u.S. quarter लिये size
Nintendo DS भंडार devices are devices प्रयुक्त to store a licensed डेवलपर 's work-in-progress images, homebrew वीडियो games and डाउनलोड commercial games ( since the निन्टेंडो DS is नहीं बेची साथ a rewritable storage medium ).
Licensed डेवलपर, however, can use a blue Intelligent Systems Nitro Emulator box to फ्लैश cards.
These devices हैं also known as `` flashcarts '' or `` flashcards ''.
There are two main वर्ग of flashcarts : पुरानी devices जिससे fit in Slot-2 ( the खेल Boy Advance खेल Pak स्लॉट ) and नए डिवाइस that fit in Slot-1 ( the DS Game Card slot ).
Slot-2 ( or first-generation ) devices have been historically cheaper due to economies of स्केल ( inherited from their उपयोग साथ खेल लड़के Advance ), लकिन require a booting tool in slot-1 in order to उपयोग the touch screen और other DS सुविधाएँ.
second-generation devices ( those which तभी use slot-1 ) do नहीं work with GBA homebrew, but became कम expensive and easier to use, rivaling अनेक Slot-2 डिवाइस in price.
First-generation devices शामिल GBA फ्लैश cartridges, GBAMP cf, supercard, and M3.
Second-generation devices शामिल r4 क्रान्ति, cyclods, G6 Real and DS-X.
the भंडार device either contains फ्लैश memory or a slot for a मेमोरी card to स्टोर homebrew.
भंडार devices with a memory-card slot usually have अधिक storage capacity than flash-memory devices.
हालांकि flash-memory capacity is usually measured in megabits ( mb ), memory-card क्षमता is प्रायः measured in megabytes ( mb ) ( where 8 mb is 1 MB ).
Storage-device brands differ in उनके support for homebrew ; DS और खेल लड़के Advance roms ; special features ( such as ability to play media files ) ; physical size और लागत.
सख्ती speaking, a भंडार device is not necessary लिये ds with FlashMe installed because homebrew can be sent to the ds using wmb.
however, इस is नहीं an easily-portable method क्युकी the ds needs to be भीतर range of a उपयुक्त Wi-Fi card.
हैं अमरीकी people of जापानी विरासत.
Japanese Americans have historically been among the तीन largest Asian American समुदायों, but in हाल decades, it has become the छठे largest समूह at roughly 1,304,286, including those of mixed-race or mixed-ethnicity.
In the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, the largest Japanese American समुदायों were found in कैलिफ़ोर्निया साथ 272,528, Hawaii with 185,502, नई यॉर्क साथ 37,780, Washington with 35,008, और Illinois with 17,542.
दक्षिणी California has the largest japanese-american जनसांख्यिकी in North अमेरिका.
200px
This is a व्यापक listing which highlights significant achievements and milestones based upon बिलबोर्ड पत्रिका 's singles चार्ट, most notably the बिलबोर्ड hot 100.
This list spans from the समस्या दिनाँक January 1, 1955 to present.
The Billboard Hot 100 began साथ the issue dated August 4, 1958, and is फिलहाल the standard लोकप्रिय music चार्ट in the संयुक्त राज्य.
prior to the creation of the Hot 100, बिलबोर्ड published चार singles charts : `` Best Sellers in स्टोर्स '', `` Most Played by Jockeys '', `` Most निभाई in Jukeboxes '' and `` The Top 100 ''.
ये charts, जिससे ranged इससे 20 to 100 slots, यहूद phased out at different times between 1957 and 1958.
Though technically not भाग of the Hot 100 chart history, उनके data is included for कम्प्यूटेशनल उद्देश्य, and to avoid unenlightening or भ्रामक characterizations.
All items सूचीबद्ध नीचे are from the hot 100 era, unless वरना विख्यात ( pre-hot 100 charts ).
v is an American science fiction television series that ran for two seasons on ABC, from November 3, 2009 to March 15, 2011.
a remake of the 1983 miniseries created by केनेथ Johnson, the नई श्रेणी chronicles the arrival on Earth of a technologically advanced एलियन species जिससे ostensibly आता in सलाम, लकिन actually रै sinister motives.
v stars मुरैना Baccarin, Lourdes benedicto, Morris शाहबलूत, Joel Gretsch, Logan huffman, चार्ल्स mesure, Elizabeth Mitchell, Laura Vandervoort and Scott Wolf, and was executive उत्पादित by स्कॉट rosenbaum, Yves simoneau, स्कॉट पीटर्स, और Jace हॉल.
The श्रेणी थी produced by the स्कॉट Peters कम्पनी, hdfilms and Warner भाईs. टेलीविज़न.
geocaching is an outdoor recreational activity, in which the participants use a वैश्विक Positioning System ( GPS ) receiver or मोबाईल device और other navigational techniques to hide and तलाश containers, called `` geocaches '' or `` caches '', anywhere in the world.
A ठेठ cache is a small waterproof container containing a logbook जहाँ the geocacher enters the date they found it and लक्षण it with their स्थापित कोड name.
After हस्ताक्षर into the log, the संचय जरूर be placed back exactly जहाँ the person found it.
Larger containers ऐसे as प्लास्टिक storage containers ( Tupperware or समान ) or ammunition boxes can also contain items लिये trading, usually खिलौने or trinkets of छोटी मान.
geocaching साझा अनेक पहलुओं with benchmarking, trigpointing, orienteering, treasure-hunting, letterboxing, and waymarking.
Boogie Down Productions was a hip हॉप group that was originally रचित of KRS-One, D-Nice, and dj स्कॉट la चट्टान.
DJ Scott La Rock थी murdered on अगस्त 27, 1987, months after the रिलीज of BDP 's डेब्यू album, Criminal Minded.
the name of the समूह, बोगी bas, गर्भाशयी from a nickname लिये the South Bronx section of The Bronx, one of the five boroughs of New यॉर्क City.
the समूह pioneered the fusion of dancehall reggae और हिप hop music और their डेब्यू lp Criminal minded contained फ़्रैंक descriptions of जीवन in the दक्षिण Bronx of the लेट 1980s यूँ setting the stage for what होता eventually become gangsta रैप.
a municipal bond is a bond issued by a लोकल government, or उनके agencies.
Potential issuers of municipal bonds शामिल states, cities, counties, redevelopment एजेंसियों, special-purpose जिले, school districts, पब्लिक utility जिले, सरेआम स्वामित्व airports and seaports, and कोई other सरकारी entity ( or group of सरकारें ) at or नीचे the state level.
Municipal bonds may be सामान्य दायित्वों of the issuer or secured by specified revenues.
in the संयुक्त States, ब्याज आय received by holders of municipal bonds is often exempt from the federal income tax और from the आय tax of the state in जिससे they हैं जारी, although municipal bonds issued for निश्चित उद्देश्य may not be tax exempt.
नापसंद new समस्या stocks कि are brought to मार्केट with दाम restrictions until the deal is sold, municipal bonds हैं free to trade at any समय once वे are purchased by the investor.
पेशेवर traders regularly trade और retrade the same bonds several times a सप्ताह.
`` Gim me कुछ lovin ' '' is a सोंग written by Steve winwood, Spencer Davis and muff winwood, and originally performed by the Spencer डेविस समूह.
the मौलिक riff of the song was उधार from the Homer बैंको song `` ( Ai n't कि ) A Lot of Love '', written by Banks and Willie डीन `` Deanie '' Parker.
`` gim me कुछ Lovin ' '' was a UK # 2 in the पतझड़ of 1966 और a US # 7.
the song is ranked # 247 on the रोलिंग स्टोन magazine 's list of The 500 महानतम Songs of सब Time.
The संस्करण जारी in the UK ( और probably सबसे of यूरोपीय ) is अलग इससे that issued in the us on the United कलाकारों लेबल, होने slower, and lacking the backing vocals and `` सजीव sounding '' performance found on the US single.
( the US संस्करण has more प्रायः been used on reissue cds, भी those coming from यूरोपीय. )
the single features the ध्वनि of the Hammond b-3 organ.
the Internet Movie Database ( IMDb ) is an online डेटाबेस of information related to films, टेलीविज़न programs, and वीडियो खेल.
This includes actors, production crew कर्मियों, and fictional characters featured in these तीन विज़ुअल entertainment media.
It is one of the most लोकप्रिय online entertainment गंतव्यों, with over 100 लाख unique users each month और a solid and rapidly growing mobile उपस्थिति.
IMDb थी launched on October 17, 1990, और in 1998 थी acquired by amazon.com.
As of अप्रैल 27, 2013, आईएमडीबी had 2,503,783 titles ( includes एपीसोड ) और 5,192,493 personalities in इसके डेटाबेस, as well as 43 लाख पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता.
The website has an Alexa rank of 48.
Fibre Channel मेजबान Bus एडाप्टर ( 64-bit pci-x कार्ड )
SCSI Host Bus Adapter ( 16-bit ISA कार्ड )
in कंप्यूटर हार्डवेयर, a host नियंत्रक, host एडाप्टर, or मेजबान बस adapter ( HBA ) connects a host system ( the computer ) to अन्य संजाल and storage devices.
the terms हैं primarily used to refer to devices for connecting SCSI, Fibre चैनल and eSATA devices.
however, डिवाइस लिये connecting to आईडीई, Ethernet, FireWire, USB and अन्य systems may also be पुकारा host adapters.
recently, the advent of iSCSI and fibre चैनल over Ethernet रै brought about Ethernet HBAs, which हैं अलग इससे Ethernet nics in कि वे include TCP offload Engines.
वहीँ are भी converged HBAs कि support both Ethernet and Fibre Channel called Converged Network Adapters ( CNAs ).
Cashmere Scarves
आधुनिक men 's cashmere sweaters for बिक्री.
Cashmere wool, usually बस known as cashmere, is a fiber obtained from Cashmere goats और अन्य प्रकार of goat.
the word cashmere गर्भाशयी इससे an old स्पेलिंग of काश्मीर.
Cashmere is fine in texture, दमदार, light, and soft.
garments made from it provide excellent इन्सुलेशन.
in the United राज्य, under the u.s. Wool Products labeling अधिनियम of 1939, as amended, ( 15 uction 68b ( a ) ( 6 ) ), राज्य that a wool or वस्त्र product may not be labeled as containing cashmere unless:
such ऊन product is the ठीक ( dehaired ) undercoat fibers produced by a cashmere बकरी ( Capra hircus laniger ) ;
the average व्यास of the fiber of such wool product does नहीं exceed 19 microns ; और
such wool product does नहीं contain अधिक than 3 percent ( by weight ) of cashmere fibers with average diameters that exceed 30 microns.
the average रेशा व्यास may be subject to a गुणांक of variation around the mean कि shall नहीं exceed 24 percent.
Jennifer convertibles inc. is the मालिक and licensor of sofabed and leather specialty retail स्टोर्स in the संयुक्त States, साथ stores स्तिथ throughout the Eastern seaboard, in the मिडवेस्ट, on the वेस्ट Coast और in the Southwest.
the कम्पनी was founded in 1975 and is आधारित in woodbury, New York.
On July 19, 2010, the company announced that it had दायर for bankruptcy as a consequence of `` substantial losses ''.
according to Furniture Today the कम्पनी थी number 48 among furniture रिटेलर with US $ 114 million in बिक्री लिये the साल ending August 29, 2009.
It subsequently उभरा इससे अध्याय 11 under the control of its प्रमुख प्रदायक, the Haining Mengnu Group.
अंडा फेंकें is a term used for अनेक अलग भोजन around the world.
2__Egg_roll __ किस्में of egg rolls are found in मेनलैंड China, many Chinese-speaking regions of Asia, and Chinese immigrant समुदायों around the world.
अंडा रोल्स as referred to in China.
In Guangdong और Hong Kong, अंडा roll usually refers to बिस्किट फेंकें.
इस is a type of बिस्किट.
The संघटक शामिल egg, flour और sugar.
अंडा फेंकें भी is a डिश in Canton and Hong Kong, this is प्रायः made साथ सब्ज़ी.
भीतर चीन egg rolls are eaten predominantly in the southeast and हैं not as commonly consumed in the उत्तर और पश्चिमी parts of China.
In अमरीकी चाइनीज cuisine, an egg roll is a savory डिश typically परोसा as an क्षुधावर्धक.
It is प्रायः stuffed with chicken, पोर्क or झींगा, cabbage, गाजर, टमाटर, bean sprouts and other सब्जियां, और तब deep fried.
This variety of the egg roll is very आम and लोकप्रिय, across even regional किस्में of American चाइनीज food, और is often included as part of a `` combination platter ''.
In Montreal, कनाडा, open-ended eggrolls are a Jewish-Chinese fusion dish.
वे can be either कोषेर certified or merely कोषेर style.
Pain and suffering is the legal term for the physical और emotional stress caused इससे an चोट ( देखिए also pain और कष्ट ).
Some damages that might be अंतर्गत इस category होता be : aches, temporary and स्थाई limitations on activity, potential shortening of जीवन, depression or scarring.
जब दाखिल a lawsuit as a परिणाम of an injury, it is common for someone to seek धन both in compensation for actual money कि is lost and for the पीड़ा और तनाव संबद्ध with वस्तुतः कोई injury.
In a suit, pain and suffering is part of the `` सामान्य क्षतिपूर्ति '' section of the claimant 's अर्जी, or, alternatively, it is an element of `` compensatory '' non-economic क्षतिपूर्ति that allows रिकवरी for the दिमागी anguish and/or शारीरिक पीड़ा endured by the claimant as a result of चोट for which the plaintiff seeks परितोष.
Apart from धन क्षतिपूर्ति awarded in trial, धन damages हैं also given informally outside the judicial system in mediations, arbitration ( both of जिससे may be अदालत annexed or non litigated दावा ) as well as in routine बीमे settlements.
व्यक्तिगत claimants or those represented by lawyers often present demands to insurers to settle लिये धन.
These demand for bodily injury compensation monies often set out damages that are similarly प्रयुक्त in the अदालत litigated pleadings.
मांगे are usually लिखा summaries of a claimant 's चिकित्सा परवाह और the facts which resulted in the injury.
नमूना of a medallion signature गारंटी stampIn
the United States और Canada, a medallion signature गारंटी is a खास signature guarantee for the ट्रांसफ़र of प्रतिभूति.
It is a गारंटी by the transferring financial संस्था कि the हस्ताक्षर is वास्तविक और the वित्तीय institution स्वीकृत देयता for any जालसाजी.
Signature guarantees protect shareholders by preventing unauthorized transfers and संभावित investor नुकसान.
They भी limit the देयता of the transfer agent who स्वीकृत the certificates.
Different institutions have different नीतियों as to कया प्रकार of पहचान वे require to provide the guarantee and whether वे चार्ज a fee लिये ऐसे service ( प्रायः nominal if any ).
Most institutions होगा नहीं guarantee a signature of किसी who has नहीं already been their customer.
a medallion हस्ताक्षर गारंटी is not the same as an acknowledgment by a notary public, in the भाव कि a `` signature guarantee '' is a प्रमाणन by the institution that the हस्ताक्षर is प्रामाणिक, and an acknowledgment is a certification by a नोटरी public attesting that the signer signed a document voluntarily.
Some बैंको may no longer provide this service, however, many still do as खूब as अन्य financial संस्थानों ऐसे as a Savings और Loans and Credit Unions.
at उनके sole discretion, ये संस्थानों may स्टिल decline to provide the Medallion हस्ताक्षर guarantees.
जब US citizens are विदेश, some financial institutions may accept संयुक्त States Embassy seals, in place of the Medallion हस्ताक्षर गारंटी Stamp.
Pacific Electric Railway streetcars stacked at a junkyard on Terminal द्वीप, Los एंजिल्स काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, कूच 1956
The सामान्य Motors streetcar conspiracy ( also known as the ग्रेट American streetcar scandal ) refers to allegations और convictions in relation to a program by General मोटर्स ( GM ) और अन्य कंपनियाँ who purchased और then dismantled स्ट्रीटकार और electric ट्रैन systems in many अमरीकी शहरों.
between 1936 and 1950, नेशनल नगर Lines और प्रशांत City Lines —with investment from gm, Firestone टायर, मानक Oil of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, Phillips Petroleum, mack Trucks, and the Federal अभियान्त्रिकी corporation—bought over 100 electric surface-traction प्रणालियों in 45 शहरों including Baltimore, Newark, Los एंजिल्स, New York City, ओकलैंड and San Diego और converted उन्हें into bus आपरेशन.
अनेक of the companies involved were convicted in 1949 of conspiracy to monopolize interstate commerce but यहूद acquitted of conspiring to monopolize the ownership of these कंपनियाँ.
कुछ suggest that इस program played a कुंजी role in the decline of पब्लिक transit in शहरों across the United राज्य ; notably Edwin J. quinby, who first खींचा attention to the program in 1946, and then Bradford C. Snell, an anti-trust attorney for the United राज्य Senate whose controversial 1974 testimony to a Senate inquiry brought the समस्या to नेशनल awareness.
Both Quinby और snell argued that the deliberate destruction of streetcars थी part of a larger strategy to push the United States into automobile dependency.
Others कह that independent आर्थिक factors brought about परिवर्तन in the transit system, including the ग्रेट Depression, the पब्लिक यूटिलिटी पकड़कर कम्पनी अधिनियम of 1935, labor unrest, मार्केट forces, rapidly increasing traffic congestion, urban sprawl, कराधान policies कि favored निजी गाडी स्वामित्व, और general enthusiasm for the automobile.
One writer on the subject has सुझाया that Snell and अन्य fell into simplistic षड्यंत्र सिद्धान्त thinking, bordering on paranoid delusions saying `` clearly, GM waged a युद्ध on electric traction.
It थी बेशक an all आउट उत्पीड़न, but by no अर्थात् the single कारण लिये the failure of rapid transit.
भी, it is बस as साफ that actions and inactions by government contributed significantly to the elimination of electric traction. ''
Only a small handful of U.S. cities have surviving effective rail-based urban transport systems based on streetcars or trams, सहित न्यूर्क, Philadelphia, सैन फ्रांसिस्को, पिट्सबर्ग, and Boston ; अन्य are re-introducing them.
The story has been छान अनेक टाइम्स in print, फिल्मी and अन्य मीडिया, notably in Who Framed रोजर खरगोश, लिया लिये a Ride and The समाप्त of suburbia.
corwin हाउस, सलेम, मैसाचुसेट्स, निर्मित ca. 1660, पहला काल English
अमरीकी औपनिवेशिक architecture includes several भवन design शैलियाँ associated with the औपनिवेशिक काल of the United राज्य, सहित First Period English ( late-medieval ), फ्रेंच औपनिवेशिक, Spanish औपनिवेशिक, Dutch Colonial और जॉर्जियाई.
These styles हैं associated with the houses, चर्च and सरकारी buildings of the काल from परिचय 1600 through the 19th century.
`` in the Mood '' is a बिग बैंड era # 1 hit recorded by अमरीकी bandleader ग्लेन Miller.
It अव्वल the चार्ट in 1940 in the U.S. और one साल later थी featured in the movie सूर्य Valley serenade.
In 1999, National Public Radio ( NPR ) शामिल the 1939 Glenn Miller रिकॉर्डिंग on आरसीए Bluebird on the NPR 100, the list of `` The 100 most important अमरीकी musical works of the 20th सदी ''.
NEPTUNE logo
the NEPTUNE Canada प्रोजेक्ट is the world’s पहला regional-scale underwater ocean observatory कि plugs सीधे into the अंतरजाल.
चूंकि दिसम्बर 2009, it रै allowed लोगों to `` surf '' the seafloor while ocean scientists चलाएं deep-water experiments इससे labs और universities around the संसार.
साथ साथ इसके सिस्टर project, शुक्र, वरुण offers a unique दृष्टिकोण to समंदर science.
traditionally, ocean scientists have relied on infrequent जलयान cruises or space-based satellites to carry आउट their शोध, जबकि the NEPTUNE project uses a remotely operated क्रॉलर.
A gramophone रिकार्ड, commonly known as a phonograph record ( in अमरीकी English ), vinyl record ( in reference to विनाइल, the material most commonly प्रयुक्त बाद परिचय 1950 ), or colloquially, `` a रिकार्ड '', is an एनालॉग ध्वनि भंडार medium consisting of a चपटा disc with an inscribed, modulated spiral नाली.
The groove usually starts near the periphery और ends near the center of the disc.
Phonograph records हैं generally वर्णित by their diameter in inches ( 12-inch, 10-inch, 7-inch, etc. ), the rotational speed at which वे are निभाई ( `` 33 rpm ``, `` 78 '', `` 45 '', इत्यादि. ), उनके time capacity ( `` long playing '' ), उनके reproductive accuracy, or `` वफ़ादारी `` ( `` high fidelity '', `` orthophonic '', `` full-range '', इत्यादि. ), और the number of चैनल्स of ऑडियो provided ( `` मोनो ``, `` stereo ``, `` quadraphonic ``, etc. ).
Phonograph records यहूद the प्राथमिक medium used for म्यूज़िक जनन for most of the 20th century, replacing the phonograph cylinder, साथ जिससे it had co-existed, by the 1920s.
By the late 1980s, digital media था gained a larger market share, और the विनाइल record बाएँ the मुख्यधारा in 1991.
वे continue to be manufactured और sold in the 21st century.
In 2008, nearly 2.9 लाख units shipped, the सबसे in any साल since 1998 और the format रै continued to धीरे regain popularity.
They are विशेषकर used by DJs and audiophiles लिये अनेक types of म्यूज़िक.
as of 2013, vinyl records continue to be used for वितरण.
घासभूमि in the सांता Rosa Plateau, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
Grassland in the antelope Valley, California
the Konza tallgrass prairie in the Flint पहाड़ियाँ of northeastern Kansas.
A grassland in the Philippines.
an Inner Mongolian घासभूमि in the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन
grasslands हैं areas where the वनस्पति is dominated by grasses ( Poaceae ), however sedge ( cyperaceae ) और फटाफट ( Juncaceae ) families can also be found.
Grasslands occur naturally on all continents except अंटार्कटिक.
In temperate latitudes, such as northwestern Europe and the Great Plains and California in उत्तर America, देशी grasslands are dominated by perennial bunch grass प्रजाति, whereas in warmer climates annual प्रजाति form a greater component of the vegetation.
grasslands हैं मिला in सबसे ecoregions of the Earth.
लिये उदाहरण वहीँ हैं five terrestrial ecoregion classifications ( subdivisions ) of the temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands biome ( ' ecosystem ' ), which is एक of आठ terrestrial ecozones of the Earth 's सतह.
हिना ( lawsonia inermis, भी called हिना tree ) or Hina is a flowering plant, the sole species in the genus Lawsonia in the परिवार lythraceae.
The English name `` henna '' comes इससे the अरबी ( ala-lc : ḥinnāʾ / pronounced ) or colloquially, loosely सुनाया.
The name is also प्रयुक्त for डाई preparations derived from the संयंत्र, and for the आर्ट of अस्थाई गोदना based on those dyes.
Henna has been used since antiquity to डाई स्किन, बाल, और fingernails, as well as fabrics including Silk, ऊन and चमड़े.
additionally, the name is misused for अन्य skin and बाल dyes, ऐसे as ब्लैक henna or न्यूट्रल henna, which हैं not derived इससे the संयंत्र.
A पतला film is a layer of सामग्री ranging from fractions of a nanometer ( monolayer ) to several micrometers in thickness.
Electronic semiconductor devices and optical coatings are the main applications benefiting from thin-film construction.
A परिचित अनुप्रयोग of पतला films is the household दर्पण, which typically has a thin metal coating on the back of a चादर of कांच to form a परावर्तक इंटरफ़ेस.
The process of silvering was एकबार commonly used to उपज mirrors.
a very-thin-film coating ( less than a nanometer thick ) is used to produce two-way mirrors.
the performance of optical coatings ( e.g. antireflective, or ar, coatings ) हैं typically enhanced when the thin-film कोटिंग consists of अनेक layers having varying thicknesses and refractive indices.
Similarly, a periodic ढांचा of alternating पतला films of different सामग्री may collectively form a so-called superlattice जिससे exploits the phenomenon of क्वांटम confinement by restricting electronic phenomena to two-dimensions.
Work is होने किया साथ ferromagnetic और ferroelectric पतला films लिये use as computer memory.
it is also being लागू to दवाएँ, via thin-film ड्रग delivery.
Thin-films are used to उपज thin-film बैटरी.
Thin films are also used in dye-sensitized solar कोशिकाएं.
सिरेमिक पतला films हैं in चौड़ी use.
The relatively high कठोरता और inertness of सिरेमिक सामग्री मेक इस type of thin coating of ब्याज लिये protection of substrate सामग्री विरूद्ध संक्षारण, oxidation और पहनें.
in particular, the use of such coatings on cutting tools can extend the जीवन of ये वस्तुएं by अनेक orders of magnitude.
Research is होने done on a new क्लास of thin-film inorganic ऑक्साइड materials, called amorphous heavy-metal cation multicomponent आक्साइड, which could be प्रयुक्त to make पारदर्शी transistors कि हैं inexpensive, stable, और environmentally benign.
गियर्स of War is a सैन्य science fiction third-person शूटर video game developed by Epic Games and प्रकाशित by Microsoft Game Studios.
it was initially released as an exclusive title for the Xbox 360 in November 2005 in उत्तर America, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, और most of यूरोपीय and included a `` Limited Collector 's Edition '' साथ added content and an art book titled नष्ट सौंदर्य that detailed much of the game 's back-story.
Despite the initial statements of एक्सबॉक्स 360 exclusivity, a Microsoft खिड़कियाँ संस्करण of the game was developed in conjunction साथ People Can मक्खी and released a year बाद, featuring नई सामग्री including additional campaign levels, a नई एकाधिक game विधि, and Games लिये खिड़कियाँ Live कार्यक्षमता.
the खेल focuses on the सैनिकों of डेल्टा Squad as they wield a desperate, last-ditch attempt to सहेजें the बाकी human inhabitants of the fictional ग्रह Sera इससे a relentless and seemingly अजेय subterranean enemy known as the Locust horde.
The player assumes the भूमिका of मार्कस fenix ( but can भी play as डोमिनिक Santiago ), a former कैदी और war-hardened soldier.
The game is based on the use of कवर और रणनीतिक आग for the खिलाड़ी to advance through the scenarios ; a दूसरी खिलाड़ी can play cooperatively through the प्रमुख अभियान to assist.
the खेल also सुविधाएँ several online multiplayer खेल मोड्स लिये up to आठ खिलाड़ी.
Gears of War sold over तीन लाख copies in बस टेन सप्ताह and was the fastest-selling वीडियो game of 2005 as well as the second-most played खेल over एक्सबॉक्स सजीव during.
It फिलहाल स्टैंड as the 5th best selling Xbox 360 game of all समय.
the game has since sold over five million नक़ल by September 2008.
The खेल was well received by critics, who praised इसके gameplay और विस्तृत visuals, and it won several `` Game of the साल '' awards in 2006.
The कामयाबी of the game रै led to the development of the Gears of War मताधिकार, including the 2008 sequel Gears of War 2 and इसके follow-up, Gears of युद्ध 3, जिससे was released on September 20, 2011, after having initially महरूम set to have been released on April 5, 2011, the तिथि upon जिससे Epic Games ' चट्टान Bleszinski थी a guest on लेट Night with jimmy Fallon.
adaptations to किताबे, कॉमिक्स, as खूब as a विशेषता फिल्मी हैं to be अपेक्षित.
A पेड़ Grows in Brooklyn is a 1943 अनोखा written by बेट्टी स्मिथ.
the story focuses on an irish-american family in williamsburg, ब्रुकलीन, New York City.
The novel is set in the first and दूसरी decades of the 20th century.
The book थी an immense कामयाबी.
The main metaphor of the book is the hardy पेड़ of Heaven, native to China and ताईवान, now considered हृदयरोग, and आम in the vacant लोट of नई York City.
संसार map with the intertropical zone highlighted in red.
Tropical climate zones of the Earth where सब twelve महीने have mean temperatures above 18 °C ( 64 °f ).
The tropics is a region of the धरती surrounding the equator.
it is limited in latitude by the tropic of Cancer in the northern hemisphere at approximately n and the Tropic of Capricorn in the southern hemisphere at S ; ये latitudes correspond to the axial tilt of the Earth.
the ऊष्णकटिबन्ध हैं भी referred to as the tropical zone and the torrid zone ( see भौगोलिक zone ).
The ऊष्णकटिबन्ध शामिल all the areas on the Earth जहाँ the Sun reaches a पाइंट directly ओवरहेड at तनिक once दौरान the सौर year.
The tropics are विशिष्ट from the other climatic और biomatic regions of धरती, the middle latitudes और the ध्रुवीय regions on either पक्ष of the equatorial zone.
For the INXS song, see What You Need ( सोंग ).
`` कया तुम Need '' is an एपीसोड of the अमरीकी television anthology series The Twilight Zone.
It is based on the छोटी स्टोरी of the same नाम by Lewis Padgett ( Henry Kuttner और C. L. मूर ).
playhousesquare, in the क्लीवलैंड थिएटर District in शहर Cleveland, ओहियो, is the second-largest theater complex in the संयुक्त राज्य, दूसरी only to New York City 's Lincoln बीच ).
constructed in a स्पैन of 19 months in the early 1920s, the थिएटर were subsequently बंद down, but were revived through a grassroots effort.
उनके नवीकरण और reopening helped usher in a new era of downtown revitalization in Cleveland, and was पुकारा `` एक of the top टेन सफलताओं in क्लीवलैंड history. ''
The driver और passenger front airbags, after having been तैनात, in a British Peugeot 306 car.
An airbag is a गाडी safety device.
it is an occupant संयम system consisting of a flexible कपड़ा लिफाफा or cushion designed to inflate rapidly दौरान an ऑटोमोबाइल collision.
Its purpose is to cushion occupants दौरान a crash and provide protection to their bodies when वे strike interior objects ऐसे as the परिचालन wheel or a window.
Modern vehicles may contain multiple airbag मौड्यूल in various पक्ष and frontal locations of the passenger seating positions, and सेंसर may deploy one or more airbags in an प्रभाव zone at परिवर्तनीय दरों आधारित on the type, angle और गंभीरता of प्रभाव ; the airbag is designed to only inflate in moderate to कठोर frontal क्रैश.
Airbags are सामान्यतः designed with the intention of supplementing the protection of an occupant जो is correctly restrained साथ a seatbelt.
सबसे designs are inflated through pyrotechnic अर्थात् and can तभी be operated एकबार.
Newer side-impact airbag मौड्यूल consist of संपीडित air cylinders that are triggered in the इवेंट of a पक्ष impact vehicle impact.
the first commercial डिजाइन यहूद introduced in passenger automobiles दौरान the 1970s with सीमित success.
Broad commercial adoption of airbags occurred in अनेक बाज़ार during the लेट 1980s और early 1990s with a driver airbag, और a front यात्री एयरबैग as खूब on some गाड़ियाँ ; and अनेक modern vehicles now include four or more इकाई.
IRS tax फ़ॉर्म are प्रयुक्त for taxpayers and tax-exempt organizations to रपट वित्तीय information to the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) of the संयुक्त States.
वे are प्रयुक्त to report आय, calculate taxes to be सशुल्क to the संघीय government of the United राज्य, और disclose other सूचना as जरूरी by the आतंरिक Revenue Code ( IRC ).
There हैं over 800 various फ़ॉर्म and schedules.
The best-known of these is रूप 1040 प्रयुक्त by individuals.
in the संयुक्त States, ड्राइवर 's पंक्तियां are issued by each individual state ( सहित Washington, D.C. और territories ), rather than the संघीय government because of the political अवधारणा of संघवाद.
Drivers are सामान्यतः required to obtain a अनुज्ञा इससे their राज्य of निवास and सब states recognize प्रत्येक other 's licenses लिये temporary विज़िटर विषय to normal आयु requirements.
a state may भी suspend an individual 's ड्राइविंग privilege भीतर its borders for ट्रैफ़िक violations.
Many states share a common प्रणाली of अनुज्ञा classes, with some अपवाद, and commercial license classes are मानकीकृत by संघीय विनियमन at 49 cfr भाग 383.
चीन रै महरूम the source of many आविष्कारों, सहित the चार Great आविष्कारों : papermaking, the कम्पास, gunpowder, और मुद्रण ( दोनो woodblock और movable type ).
The list below contains these and अन्य आविष्कारों.
The चाइनीज invented technologies involving mechanics, hydraulics, और mathematics applied to horology, metallurgy, खगोलशास्त्र, agriculture, अभियान्त्रिकी, music theory, craftsmanship, nautics, and warfare.
by the युद्धरत States Period ( 403–221 bc ), they had advanced metallurgic technology, including the blast भट्टी and cupola भट्टी, जबकि the finery forge and puddling प्रक्रम यहूद ज्ञात by the हान राजवंश ( 202 BC – AD 220 ).
a sophisticated economic system in चीन gave birth to आविष्कारों such as paper धन during the सोंग Dynasty ( 960–1279 ).
The आविष्कार of बारूद by the 10th century led to an array of inventions ऐसे as the आग lance, land mine, नवल मेरा, हाथ तोपों, exploding cannonballs, multistage rocket, and rocket bombs with aerodynamic wings and explosive payloads.
With the navigational aid of the 11th-century compass और ability to steer at high sea with the 1st-century sternpost अरित्र, premodern Chinese sailors sailed as far as ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी and मिश्र.
in water-powered clockworks, the premodern चाइनीज था प्रयुक्त the escapement mechanism चूंकि the 8th सदी और the अंतहीन power-transmitting chain drive in the 11th सदी.
वे भी made large mechanical puppet theaters चलित by waterwheels और carriage wheels and wine-serving automatons चलित by paddle wheel नौकाएँ.
The contemporaneous Peiligang and pengtoushan cultures represent the oldest Neolithic cultures of China and यहूद formed around 7000 bc.
Some of the first inventions of पाषाणकालीन, prehistoric चीन include semilunar and आयताकार स्टोन knives, स्टोन hoes and हुकुम, the cultivation of बाजरा, rice and the soybean, the refinement of sericulture, the भवन of rammed earth structures साथ lime -plastered हाउस floors, the creation of the potter 's wheel, the सृष्टि of pottery with cord-mat-basket designs, the सृष्टि of pottery tripods and pottery steamers, and the development of ceremonial vessels and scapulimancy लिये उद्देश्य of भविष्यवाणी.
Francesca Bray argues that the domestication of the ox and भैंस दौरान the Longshan culture ( c. 3000–c. 2000 bc ) period, the absence of Longshan-era सिंचाई or high-yield फसलों, पूरा evidence of Longshan cultivation of dry-land cereal crops जिससे दिया high yields `` तभी जब the soil was carefully cultivated, '' suggest कि the हल थी known at least by the Longshan culture period and explains the high agricultural production yields जिससे allowed the rise of Chinese civilization दौरान the शांग राजवंश ( c. 1600–c. 1050 bc ).
With later inventions ऐसे as the multiple-tube बीज drill and heavy moldboard iron हल, चीन 's agricultural आउटपुट could sustain a much larger जनसांख्यिकी.
For the उद्देश्य of this सूची, आविष्कारों हैं regarded as technological firsts विकसित in China, and as ऐसे करता not शामिल foreign technologies which the Chinese acquired through सम्पर्क, such as the पवनचक्की इससे the Middle ईस्ट or the telescope इससे जल्दी आधुनिक यूरोपीय.
It भी does not include technologies विकसित elsewhere और later invented separately by the चाइनीज, ऐसे as the odometer और chain pump.
Scientific, mathematic or natural discoveries, परिवर्तन in minor concepts of design or स्टाइल और कलाकारी innovations can not be regarded as आविष्कारों और do not appear on the list.
Gross घरेलू product in 2011 US dollars per capita, समायोजित for inflation और खरीदना power पैरिटी ( log स्केल ) from 1860 to 2011, with जनसांख्यिकी ( disk area ) for the US ( yellow ), UK ( orange ), Japan ( red ), China ( रेड ), and India ( ब्लू ).
वैश्वीकरण ( or globalisation—see स्पेलिंग मतभेद ) is the process of international integration arising इससे the इंटरचेंज of संसार दृश्य, products, ideas, और अन्य पहलुओं of culture.
put in सरल शर्तें, वैश्वीकरण refers to processes that promote world-wide exchanges of नेशनल and सांस्कृतिक resources.
अग्रिम in transportation और दूरसंचार infrastructure, including the वृद्धि of the अंतरजाल, are major factors in वैश्वीकरण, generating further interdependence of economic and सांस्कृतिक क्रियाएँ.
हालांकि several scholars प्लेस the origins of वैश्वीकरण in modern टाइम्स, अन्य ट्रेस its history long before the European आयु of discovery और voyages to the New World.
Some भी ट्रेस the origins to the तीसरा मिलेनियम BCE.
चूंकि the beginning of the 20th century, the pace of वैश्वीकरण has intensified at a rapid rate, especially दौरान the पोस्ट Cold War era.
The term वैश्वीकरण रै been in increasing use since the mid-1980s and विशेषकर चूंकि the mid-1990s.
In 2000, the International मौद्रिक Fund ( IMF ) पहचाना four basic aspects of globalization : व्यापार और transactions, capital and निवेश आंदोलनों, माइग्रेशन and गति of people and the dissemination of knowledge.
Further, environmental चुनौतियां such as climate change, cross-boundary water and air प्रदूषण, और over-fishing of the समंदर are linked with globalization.
Globalizing processes affect and हैं affected by कारोबार and work संगठन, अर्थशास्त्र, socio-cultural resources, और the प्राकृतिक पर्यावरण.
The replacements is a 2000 अमरीकी sports कॉमेडी film निर्देशित by Howard deutch.
It stars कियानू रीव्स, जीन hackman, and ब्रुक langton.
An American एयरलाइंस वायुयान takes off इससे dallas/fort Worth International विमानक्षेत्र.
इस airport is the airline 's largest हब.
अमरीकी Airlines flies to 79 घरेलू destinations और 78 अंतरराष्ट्रीय गंतव्यों in 48 countries.
( as of December 2012 )
the list शामिल the नगर, देश, the codes of the International एयर Transport Association ( IATA airport code ) and the International Civil विमानन Organization ( icao airport code ), और the विमानक्षेत्र 's नाम, साथ the airline 's hubs, focus cities और मौसमी destinations marked.
the list also contains destinations no longer परोसा by the एयरलाइन, जिससे are marked as terminated destinations.
it करता नहीं include destinations served लिये American एयरलाइंस by its regional affiliates अमरीकी Eagle Airlines, कार्यपालिका एयरलाइंस, and AmericanConnection.
`` day-o ( The Banana Boat Song ) '' is a traditional Jamaican mento folk song, the best-known संस्करण of जिससे थी sung by Harry Belafonte और an वैकल्पिक version interspersed with another Jamaican folksong, हिल और Gully सवार, by Dame शर्ली bassey.
Despite the song 's mento प्रभाव, `` Day-O ( The banana Boat Song ) '' is widely ज्ञात as an उदाहरण of calypso म्यूज़िक.
It is a work सोंग, from the point of view of dock workers working the रात्रि शिफ़्ट लदान bananas onto जहाजों.
Daylight has come, the shift is over and they want उनके work to be counted up so that they can go home.
World War I ( wwi ) was a वैश्विक युद्ध centred in Europe कि began on 28 July 1914 and lasted जबतक 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly पुकारा the World युद्ध or the Great War from इसके occurrence जबतक the start of World War II in 1939, and the पहला संसार War or संसार युद्ध I thereafter.
it involved all the संसार 's great powers, which यहूद समवेत in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the ट्रिपल entente of the United Kingdom, France and Russia ) और the Central शक्तियां ( originally the Triple गठबंधन of जर्मनी, austria-hungary and इटली ; लकिन, as Austria–Hungary had लिया the offensive विरूद्ध the अनुबंध, इटली किया not enter into the war ).
These alliances यहूद both reorganised और विस्तारित as more nations entered the युद्ध : Italy, Japan और the संयुक्त States joined the Allies, और the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central शक्तियां.
Ultimately, more than 70 लाख military personnel, including 60 million europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history.
अधिक than 9 million combatants were मारे, largely क्युकी of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without सम्बन्धित improvements in protection or गतिशीलता.
it थी the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the way for विभिन्न राजनैतिक changes, such as revolutions in अनेक of the nations involved.
एक of the long-term causes of the युद्ध was the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign policies of the ग्रेट powers of Europe.
More immediately, the हत्या of Archduke Franz फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया, the heir to the सिंहासन of austria-hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a राजनयिक crisis जब Austria-Hungary subsequently वितरित an ultimatum to the Kingdom of सर्बिया.
अनेक alliances formed over the previous decades यहूद invoked.
Within सप्ताह, the major powers यहूद at युद्ध and, via their colonies, the विरोध soon spread around the संसार.
On 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first गोलियाँ of the युद्ध as preparation लिये the invasion of Serbia.
जबकि the russians mobilised, the germans invaded neutral बेल्जियम और Luxembourg on the रास्ता to France, providing a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's declaration of war विरूद्ध Germany.
After the German march on पेरिस was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that बदला छोटी जबतक 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the Russian army थी successful विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians, लकिन was stopped in its आक्रमण of East Prussia by the germans.
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war, opening up fronts in the काकेशस, Mesopotamia and the sinai.
Italy and बुल्गारिया गई to war in 1915 और रोमानिया in 1916.
In रूस, the त्सार 's government collapsed in कूच 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the सेंट्रल Powers.
After a 1918 German अप्रिय साथ the पश्चिमी सामने, the Allies drove back the Germans in a श्रेणी of successful offensives and अमरीकी forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which था इसके own trouble साथ revolutionaries, agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in victory लिये the Allies.
Events on the घर fronts were as tumultuous as on the बैटल fronts, as the participants आजमाया to mobilize their manpower और आर्थिक संसाधन to लड़ो a कुल युद्ध.
By the end of the war, चार major imperial powers—the German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian और Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the former two lost a great राशि of territory, जबकि the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of सेंट्रल Europe was redrawn into अनेक छोटी states.
The लीग of राष्ट्र थी formed in the hope of preventing another such conflict.
the European nationalism spawned by the war और the ब्रेकअप of empires, the परखना of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और problems साथ the Treaty of versailles are सहमत to be factors contributing to संसार War ii.
Nurse Jackie is an अमरीकी series that premiered on June 8, 2009, on Showtime, फिल्म सेंट्रल and the फिल्म संजाल.
The श्रेणी stars Edie Falco as the title अक्षर Jackie Peyton, an emergency विभाग nurse at All Saints ' Hospital in New York नगर.
लिये Jackie, `` Every day is a ऊँची wire act of juggling मरीजों, doctors, fellow नर्स और her own indiscretions. ''
Keeping Up साथ the Kardashians ( often referred to simply as The Kardashians ) is an American reality television series that premiered on अक्तूबर 14, 2007, on E !.
it फ़ॉलो the जीवनदान of the kardashian/jenner family, सहित sisters Kourtney, किम, and Khloé कार्दशियन.
The series ' success has led to the spin-offs कोर्टनी and किम Take नई York, Khloé & लैमर, Kourtney और Khloé Take मियामी, and Kourtney and Kim Take मियामी.
अफगानिस्तान ( ; ; ), officially the इस्लामी Republic of Afghanistan, is a landlocked sovereign state forming part of South Asia, Central Asia, और to some extent Western एशिया.
It has a जनसांख्यिकी of around 30 लाख inhabiting an area of लगभग, बनाना it the 42nd most populous and 41st largest स्वदेश in the world.
It is bordered by Pakistan in the south और the east, Iran in the west, तुर्कमेनिस्तान, Uzbekistan and ताजिकिस्तान in the उत्तर, and चीन in the far northeast.
Afghanistan has महरूम an प्राचीन फोकल पाइंट of the रेशा सड़क and इंसान माइग्रेशन.
Archaeologists have found evidence of human habitation इससे as दूर वापस as the मध्य Paleolithic.
शहरी सभ्यता may have begun in the area as जल्दी as 3,000 to 2,000 BCE.
Sitting at an important geostrategic location that connects the मध्य ईस्ट culture with Central Asia और the Indian उपमहाद्वीप, the जमीन has महरूम घर to various peoples through the आयु and witnessed अनेक सैन्य campaigns, notably by Alexander the ग्रेट, Genghis Khan, और in आधुनिक era पश्चिमी forces.
the land also परोसा as a सोर्स from जिससे the greco-bactrians, Kushans, hephthalites, Saffarids, Ghaznavids, ghorids, khiljis, Timurids, Mughals, durranis, और अन्य have risen to form प्रमुख empires.
the political history of the modern state of अफगानिस्तान begins in 1709, जब the hotaki राजवंश was established in Kandahar followed by अहमद Shah Durrani 's rise to power in 1747.
In the late 19th century, Afghanistan became a बफ़र state in the `` ग्रेट खेल `` between the अंग्रेजों and रूसी empires.
following the 1919 Anglo-Afghan War, King अमानुल्ला began a European style modernization of the country but was stopped by the ultra-conservatives.
During the Cold युद्ध, बाद the वापसी of the अंग्रेजों इससे neighboring India in 1947, the United राज्य and the सोवियत Union began spreading प्रभाव in Afghanistan, जिससे led to a bloody युद्ध between the us-backed मुजाहिदीन forces and the Soviet-backed अफगान सरकारी in जिससे over a लाख afghans lost उनके lives.
This थी followed by the 1990s सिविल युद्ध, the rise and fall of the extremist Taliban सरकारी and the 2001–present war.
In दिसम्बर 2001, the संयुक्त Nations Security Council authorized the सृष्टि of the International Security Assistance Force ( ISAF ) to help maintain सुरक्षा in Afghanistan and assist the Karzai administration.
Three decades of war made Afghanistan one of the world 's most dangerous countries, including the largest producer of refugees and asylum seekers.
While the अंतरराष्ट्रीय community is पुनर्निर्माण war-torn अफगानिस्तान, terrorist groups ऐसे as the Haqqani Network and Hezbi islami हैं actively शामिल in a देशभर तालिबान -led उग्रवाद, जिससे includes hundreds of assassinations and suicide हमले.
according to the संयुक्त Nations, the insurgents यहूद responsible for 80 % of civilian हताहत in 2011 and 2012.
The American Civil युद्ध ( acw ), also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ), was a civil war लड़ा from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several दक्षिणी स्लेव states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` confederacy '' or the `` दक्षिण '' ).
the war had its उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of slavery, विशेषकर the extension of slavery into the पश्चिमी territories.
विदेशी शक्तियां did नहीं intervene.
बाद four सालो of खूनी कॉम्बैट कि बाएँ over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the दक्षिण 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring national unity और guaranteeing rights to the freed स्लेव began.
In the 1860 presidential चुनाव, Republicans, led by अब्राहम Lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
lincoln won, but पहले उसके inauguration on कूच 4, 1861, seven cotton-based स्लेव states formed the Confederacy.
outgoing लोकतांत्रिक President जेम्स बुकानन and the incoming Republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his प्रशासन would not initiate सिविल युद्ध.
आठ remaining स्लेव राज्य continued to reject calls लिये secession.
Confederate forces जब्त numerous federal forts भीतर territory claimed by the Confederacy.
a Peace Conference विफल to find a compromise, और both sides prepared for war.
the confederates assumed कि European countries यहूद so निर्भर on `` King कपास `` that they would intervene ; none did और none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when confederate forces fired upon फोर्ट Sumter, a कुंजी fort held by Union सैनिकों in दक्षिण कैरोलिना.
lincoln called for each राज्य to provide सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट ; consequently, four more slave राज्य joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to ग्यारह.
The संघ soon controlled the border states और स्थापित a naval नाकेबंदी कि crippled the दक्षिणी economy.
The Eastern Theater थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
the autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended साथ Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British हस्तक्षेप.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, which made ending गुलामी a war लक्ष्य.
To the वेस्ट, by summer 1862 the संघ नष्ट the confederate river नेवी, then much of उनके western सेना, and the संघ at vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the बैटल of gettysburg.
Western सफलताओं led to ulysses S. ग्रान्ट command of सब संघ armies in 1864.
In the Western थिएटर, विलियम T. शरमन drove east to capture अटलांटा and marched to the समुद्र, destroying Confederate अवसंरचना along the way.
the Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the confederacy from सब directions, and could afford to fight battles of अपघर्षण through the Overland Campaign towards रिचमंड, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army विफल, leading to ली 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
the American सिविल युद्ध थी one of the earliest true औद्योगिक युद्धों.
Railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, बैंको, परिवहन and food supplies all foreshadowed World युद्ध i.
it remains the deadliest युद्ध in American इतिहास, resulting in the मौतों of an estimated 750,000 सैनिको and an undetermined क्रमांक of civilian casualties.
Historian जॉन Huddleston estimates the death टोल at ten percent of all उत्तरी males 20–45 years old, और 30 percent of all Southern श्वेत males aged 18–40.
लागत of goods sold ( cogs ) refer to the inventory costs of those goods a business रै बेची दौरान a particular period.
Costs are associated with particular goods using one of several formulas, including specific identification, first-in first-out ( FIFO ), or average cost.
लागत include सब costs of खरीदें, costs of conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their उपस्थित location and condition.
लागत of goods बना by the business include material, मजदूर, and allocated overhead.
The costs of those goods not yet sold हैं deferred as costs of inventory until the inventory is sold or लिखा bas in value.
Freak Lunchbox candy स्टोर in halifax, नोवा Scotia
A confectionery store ( अधिक commonly referred to as a मीठी shop in the United Kingdom, a कैंडी store in the North America, or a lolly shop in ऑस्ट्रेलिया ) sells confectionery and is प्रायः targeted to children.
सबसे confectionery स्टोर्स हैं filled साथ an assortment of sweets far larger than a grocer or convenience store could accommodate.
They often offer a चयन of बूढ़ा fashioned treats, और sweets इससे different देशों.
Very often unchanged in layout since उनके inception, confectioneries हैं known लिये उनके वार्मिंग and nostalgic feel.
The गाँव of pateley Bridge claims to have the oldest confectionery store in इंग्लैण्ड.
The oldest मीठी दूकान in England, in the गाँव of pateley Bridge
Oklahoma ( ) ( pawnee : Uukuhuúwa, cay : Gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a राज्य located in वेस्ट दक्षिण Central संयुक्त States.
ओक्लाहोमा is the 20th most extensive और the 28th most populous of the 50 United States.
the राज्य 's नाम is derived from the Choctaw words okla और humma, meaning `` red people '', और it is known informally by इसके nickname, The Sooner State.
Formed by the संयोजन of Oklahoma Territory and भारतीय Territory on नवम्बर 16, 1907, ओक्लाहोमा was the 46th राज्य to डालें the union.
इसके निवासियों are ज्ञात as Oklahomans or, informally `` okies '', और its capital and largest city is Oklahoma नगर.
a major producer of प्राकृतिक गैस, oil, and agriculture, Oklahoma relies on an economic आधार of aviation, उर्जा, दूरसंचार, and biotechnology.
it रै एक of the तीव्रतम growing economies in the nation, रैंकिंग among the top राज्य in per capita income growth and gross domestic product growth.
Oklahoma City and तुलसा serve as Oklahoma 's primary economic anchors, with nearly दो thirds of Oklahomans living within their metropolitan सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रों.
With small mountain ranges, prairie, mesas, and eastern forests, most of Oklahoma lies in the Great मैदान and the U.S. Interior Highlands —a region विशेषकर prone to severe मौसम.
In addition to having a prevalence of अंग्रेज़ी, जर्मनी, Scottish, Irish and Native अमरीकी ancestry, more than 25 Native American languages are बोला in Oklahoma, second तभी to कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
ओक्लाहोमा is स्तिथ on a confluence of तीन major American सांस्कृतिक regions और historically परोसा as a route for चौपायों drives, a destination for दक्षिणी settlers, and a government-sanctioned territory for Native Americans.
Stacked and standing car tires
a tire ( or टायर ) is a ring-shaped covering that fits around a wheel 's रिम to protect it and enable better गाडी प्रदर्शन.
सबसे tires, such as those for automobiles and साइकिल, provide traction between the vehicle और the road जबकि providing a flexible cushion that absorbs shock.
the materials of आधुनिक pneumatic टायर are सिंथेटिक रबर, natural rubber, fabric और wire, साथ with carbon black and other chemical यौगिकों.
They consist of a tread and a body.
the tread provides कर्षण while the देह provides containment for a quantity of संपीडित एयर.
Before रबर was विकसित, the पहला versions of tires यहूद simply bands of मेटल that fitted around लकड़ी wheels to prevent wear and tear.
Early rubber tires यहूद solid ( not pneumatic ).
आज, the majority of टायर are न्यूमेटिक inflatable structures, comprising a doughnut-shaped body of cords and wires encased in rubber और generally filled with compressed air to form an inflatable cushion.
Pneumatic टायर are प्रयुक्त on अनेक types of वाहनों, सहित cars, bicycles, motorcycles, trucks, earthmovers, and aircraft.
Metal tires हैं still used on इंजनों और railcars, और solid rubber ( or अन्य पॉलिमर ) टायर are स्टिल used in various non-automotive applications, such as कुछ casters, carts, lawnmowers, और wheelbarrows.
dr. Joseph Warren ( June 11, 1741 – June 17, 1775 ) was an अमरीकी डॉक्टर जो played a leading role in American Patriot organizations in बोस्टन in जल्दी days of the American क्रान्ति, आखिरकार serving as president of the revolutionary मैसाचुसेट्स प्रांतीय Congress.
Warren enlisted Paul Revere और William dawes on April 18, 1775, to छोड़ Boston and spread the alarm that the अंग्रेजों गैरीसन in Boston थी सेटिंग out to रेड the कस्बा of concord and गिरफ़्तार rebel leaders John Hancock and सैमुएल Adams.
Warren participated in the next day 's Battles of lexington and concord, which are commonly माना to be the opening engagements of the अमरीकी क्रांतिकारी युद्ध.
वारेन था महरूम commissioned a प्रमुख General in the colony 's militia shortly before the जून 17, 1775 बैटल of Bunker हिल.
Rather than exercising his रैंक, Warren served in the battle as a निजी soldier, and थी killed in कॉम्बैट जब British troops stormed the redoubt atop Breed 's Hill.
उसके death, immortalized in जॉन Trumbull 's painting, the Death of General Warren at the Battle of Bunker 's हिल, जून 17, 1775, जस्ती the rebel forces, and he रै महरूम memorialized in many place names in the United राज्य.
STM चित्र of self-assembled supramolecular chains of the organic सेमीकंडक्टर Quinacridone on Graphite.
An organic सेमीकंडक्टर is an सशुल्क material with semiconductor गुण, that is, साथ an electrical conductivity between कि of insulators and कि of metals.
Single molecules, छोटी कड़ी ( oligomers ) and organic polymers can be semiconductive.
semiconducting small molecules ( aromatic hydrocarbons ) शामिल the polycyclic aromatic यौगिकों pentacene, anthracene, and rubrene.
Polymeric organic semiconductors include poly ( 3-hexylthiophene ), बहु ( p-phenylene vinylene ), as खूब as polyacetylene and इसके derivatives.
वहीँ are two major अतिव्यापी classes of सशुल्क semiconductors.
ये are organic charge-transfer complexes and various linear-backbone conductive polymers derived from polyacetylene.
Linear रीढ़ organic semiconductors include polyacetylene itself and इसके derivatives polypyrrole, and polyaniline.
at least locally, charge-transfer देवालय often प्रदर्शनी समान conduction mechanisms to अकार्बनिक semiconductors.
Such mechanisms उठता from the उपस्थिति of छेद and electron conduction परतों अलग by a band गैप.
While such क्लासिक mechanisms are important locally, as साथ inorganic amorphous semiconductors, tunnelling, localized states, mobility gaps, and phonon -assisted hopping भी significantly योगदान to conduction, विशेषकर in polyacetylenes.
जैसे अकार्बनिक semiconductors, organic semiconductors can be doped.
Organic semiconductors susceptible to doping ऐसे as polyaniline ( Ormecon ) और हैं also ज्ञात as organic metals.
Typical वर्तमान carriers in organic semiconductors are holes और electrons in π-bonds.
Almost all organic solids हैं insulators.
लकिन when उनके constituent molecules have π-conjugate systems, electrons can move via π-electron cloud overlaps, especially by hopping, tunnelling और related mechanisms.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and phthalocyanine salt crystals हैं examples of इस प्रकार of organic semiconductor.
Mainly due to कम mobility, भी unpaired electrons may be stable in charge-transfer complexes.
Such unpaired electrons can function as वर्तमान carriers.
इस प्रकार of semiconductor is also प्राप्त by pairing an इलेक्ट्रॉन donor अणु साथ an electron acceptor molecule.
Female स्खलन is the expulsion of द्रव by human females इससे the paraurethral ducts through and around the female urethra दौरान or before an orgasm.
It is also ज्ञात colloquially as gushing or squirting, although these are considered to be different phenomena in some research publications.
The exact सोर्स और nature of the fluid continue to be a टॉपिक of debate among medical professionals, which is भी सम्बन्धित to संदेह over the existence of the g-spot.
The फीफा Women 's World Cup is an international association फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिता contested by the वरिष्ठ महिलाओं 's national टीमों of the members of fédération Internationale de Football संघ ( FIFA ), the sport 's global शासी body.
the championship has महरूम awarded प्रत्येक four years since the inaugural tournament in 1991.
जापानी won the 2011 tournament in a penalty गोलीबारी.
The वर्तमान format of the टूर्नामेंट involves 16 टीमों competing for the शीर्षक at venues भीतर the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a period of about three weeks ; – this phase is प्रायः पुकारा the संसार कप Finals.
A योग्यता phase, which फिलहाल takes place over the preceding three years, is used to determine जिससे teams qualify for the tournament साथ with the host nation ( s ).
The फीफा Women 's संसार कप is recognized as the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रतियोगिता in women 's football and is played amongst महिलाओं 's नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल टीमों of the member states of FIFA, the sport 's वैश्विक governing body.
the पहला महिलाओं 's संसार कप टूर्नामेंट, नामित the Women 's संसार Championship, was held in 1991, sixty-one सालो बाद the men 's first FIFA World कप टूर्नामेंट in 1930.
the छह World कप tournaments have महरूम won by चार different national टीमों.
the next संसार Cup will be hosted by कनाडा in 2015.
Scorpions is a young वयस्क novel लिखा by Walter Dean Myers, first published in the United राज्य by Harper & Row on June 20, 1988.
Front पेज of a 17th century Hebrew Bible by Joseph Athias, now at बेथ hatefutsoth, Israel
'son of man ' is the अनुवाद of various Hebrew और यूनानी phrases used in दोनो the यहूदी बाइबल and the नई Testament.
It रै विविध meanings, ranging from a सामान्य human being to a prophesied eternal, दैवी ruler.
The Hebrew अभिव्यक्ति `` son of man '' ( בן–אדם i.e. ben-'adam ) appears one सौ and seven टाइम्स in the यहूदी Bible.
This is the सबसे common Hebrew निर्माण लिये the एकवचन लकिन is used mostly in ezekiel ( 93 times ) and 14 times elsewhere.
In तीस दो cases the phrase appears in intermediate plural form `` sons of मेन '', i.e. इंसान beings.
as generally interpreted by Jews, it denotes humankind generally.
In the Koine यूनानी of the New Testament, `` the बेटे of man '' is invariably प्रयुक्त as `` ὁ υἱὸς τοὺ ἀνθρώπου '' साथ a definite आलेख.
The उपयोग of the definite आलेख in `` the son of man '' in the ईसाई gospels is novel, और before its use there, no records of its use in कोई of the surviving Greek documents of antiquity exist.
geza Vermes has stated कि `` the बेटे of man '' in the Christian gospels is unrelated to Hebrew बाइबल usages.
in Christian usage, नापसंद the बेटे of God title, which रै महरूम an अनिवार्य तत्व of ईसाई creeds चूंकि the Apostolic age, the proclamation of `` Jesus as the Son of man '' has never been an आलेख of faith in christianity.
The interpretation of the use of `` the बेटे of man '' in the नई वसीयत रै remained challenging और after 150 years of debate no सर्वसम्मति on the समस्या has उभरा among विद्वानों.
निपुण of foxhounds leads the फ़ील्ड from Powderham Castle in देवों, इंग्लैण्ड, with the hounds in front.
Fox hunting is an activity involving the tracking, chase, और sometimes हत्या of a fox, traditionally a red फॉक्स, by trained foxhounds or other scent hounds, और a group of unarmed अनुसरणकर्ता led by a master of foxhounds, who follow the hounds on पैर or on horseback.
Fox hunting originated in the form practised until recently in the United Kingdom in the 16th century, लकिन is practised सब over the संसार, सहित in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, कनाडा, फ़्रांस, Ireland, इटली और the United राज्य.
in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, the पद also refers to the hunting of foxes साथ firearms समान to spotlighting or deer hunting.
In much of the संसार शिकार in सामान्य is समझा to सुनाना to कोई खेल animals or weapons ( e.g., deer hunting साथ bow and arrow ) ; in ब्रिटेन and आयरलैंड, `` hunting '' without qualification implies fox शिकार ( or other forms of शिकार साथ hounds- beagling, स्टैग hunting, मिंक शिकार, खीचें hunting or शिकार the clean बूट ) as described here.
the खेल is controversial, particularly in the UK, जहाँ it थी बैन in स्कॉटलैंड in 2002, और in इंग्लैण्ड and Wales in November 2004 ( law enforced from February 2005 ), though shooting foxes as vermin remained legal.
Proponents of fox hunting view it as an महत्वपूर्ण part of rural culture and उपयोगी for कारण of संरक्षण and pest कंट्रोल, while प्रतिद्वंद्वियों argue कि it is cruel and unnecessary.
तम्बाकू विज्ञापन is the advertising of तम्बाकू उत्पाद or उपयोग ( typically सिगरेट smoking ) by the तम्बाकू उद्योग through a किस्में of मीडिया सहित sponsorship, particularly of sporting कार्यक्रम.
It is now one of the सबसे अत्यधिक regulated forms of marketing.
Some or all forms of tobacco विज्ञापन हैं banned in many countries.
Bally technologies, Inc. is a निर्माता of slot machines और other gaming technology based in लास Vegas, Nevada.
the company was founded in 1968 as Advanced पेटेंट प्रौद्योगिकी.
It eventually changed its name to Alliance गेमिंग and acquired, in 1996, Bally Gaming International, a पूर्व प्रभाग of बल्ली निर्माण.
In 2006, the entire company अपनाया the बल्ली नाम, a trademark कि originated in 1932 by the बल्ली Manufacturing Corporation.
gustave Doré 's engravings illustrated the Divine कॉमेडी ( 1861–1868 ) ; यहाँ, दांते is lost in canto 1 of the Inferno.
Inferno ( Italian लिये `` नरक `` ) is the पहला part of Dante Alighieri 's 14th-century epic poem दैवी कॉमेडी.
It is followed by purgatorio and Paradiso.
It is an allegory telling of the journey of Dante through नरक, हिदायत by the Roman कवि Virgil.
In the poem, Hell is depicted as नौ वृत्त of suffering स्तिथ within the Earth.
Allegorically, the Divine कॉमेडी represents the यात्रा of the soul towards God, with the Inferno describing the recognition और अस्वीकृति of sin.
स्मरनॉफ is a brand of vodka owned and उत्पादित by the British company Diageo.
The Smirnoff brand began with a vodka डिस्टिलरी founded in Moscow by Pyotr arsenievich smirnov ( 1831–1898 ).
it is अभी distributed in 130 देशों.
It is produced in अनेक देशों सहित इण्डिया, आयरलैंड, इटली, the United किंगडम और the United States.
Smirnoff उत्पाद include वोदका, flavoured वोदका, और malt beverages.
in March 2006, diageo उत्तर America claimed that Smirnoff वोदका थी the best-selling distilled spirit brand in the संसार.
Big Brown ( foaled अप्रैल 10, 2005 in केंटकी ) is a retired चैंपियन अमरीकी thoroughbred racehorse और विजेता of the 2008 Kentucky Derby and 2008 Preakness stakes.
Bred by dr. गेरी B. Knapp 's Monticule Farms in lexington, केंटकी, he won his पहला five रेस starts.
He was sired by Grade III विजेता Boundary, a बेटे of North American Champion sire Danzig, a son of Northern नर्तकी.
बिग Brown 's बांध was Mien, also a पोती of Northern Dancer through उसके sire, Nureyev.
The Serenity दुआ is the common name for an originally untitled prayer by the American theologian Reinhold Niebuhr ( 1892–1971 ).
It रै been अपनाया by alcoholics Anonymous और अन्य twelve-step programs.
The best-known form is : God, grant me the serenity to accept the things I can not change,
the हिम्मत to change the things i can,
और अक्ल to know the अंतर.
The घोषणा और resolves of the पहला Continental कॉंग्रेस ( भी ज्ञात as the घोषणा of Colonial Rights, or the घोषणा of Rights ), was a statement अपनाया by the First महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस on अक्तूबर 14, 1774, in response to the Intolerable Acts passed by the अंग्रेजों पार्लियामेंट.
The Declaration outlined colonial objections to the असहनीय अधिनियमों, सूचीबद्ध a colonial विधेयक of rights, and provided a detailed list of grievances.
it थी similar to the Declaration of Rights और grievances, passed by the Stamp Act कॉंग्रेस a दशक earlier.
The घोषणा concluded साथ an outline of Congress 's योजनाएँ : to डालें into a बहिष्कार of British trade ( the महाद्वीपीय संघ ) जबतक their grievances यहूद redressed, to publish addresses to the people of Great Britain और अंग्रेजों अमेरिका, and to send a याचिका to the King.
पल्स pressure is the pressure that is felt when feeling the pulse.
measured in millimeters of mercury ( mmHg ), the दबाव अंतर between the systolic and diastolic pressures is the pressure change to बनाएँ the पल्स, which is the pulse pressure.
if resting रक्त pressure is ( systolic/diastolic ) 120/80 millimeters of पारा ( mmhg ), पल्स pressure is 40.
The Hills is a reality television series जिससे originally aired on एमटीवी इससे may 31, 2006 until July 13, 2010.
the show उपयोग a reality television format, following the personal जीवनदान of अनेक young adults living in Los एंजिल्स, California, but tends towards a narrative स्वरूप more commonly found in scripted जाति ऐसे as साबुन operas.
The series originally followed the personal life of पूर्व Laguna Beach star लॉरेन कोनराड and उसके मित्रों ' new lives in Los Angeles.
बाद पाँच सीज़न, Conrad left the series and थी replaced by another पूर्व लगुना Beach star, kristin cavallari, beginning in the second half of the पांचवां season.
The series concluded at the end of the sixth ऋतु.
entertainment Weekly क्रमित the पहाड़ियाँ 82nd on their list of `` The 100 Best Shows of the पिछला 25 Years, '' stating that the श्रेणी was a `` नई Classic. ''
AOL TV पुकारा it TV 's Biggest Guilty Pleasure.
the series premiered in अनुप्रयोग in the fall of 2009 alongside लगुना Beach : the रियल Orange काउंटी.
in poker, bad ताल is a subjective term for a hand in which a player with what appear to be strong cards nevertheless loses.
it most प्रायः occurs जहाँ one खिलाड़ी bets the clearly stronger hand और उनके opponent makes a poor call that eventually `` हिट्स '' और विन्स.
There is no consensus among पोकर players as to what exactly constitutes a bad ताल and often खिलाड़ी will disagree about whether a particular hand थी a bad ताल.
the goldfish ( carassius auratus auratus ) is a freshwater मछली in the परिवार Cyprinidae of अनुक्रम cypriniformes.
It was one of the earliest fish to be domesticated, and is one of the सबसे commonly kept एक्वेरियम fish.
A relatively small सदस्य of the कार्प family ( which भी शामिल the koi carp and the crucian carp ), the goldfish is a domesticated version of a less-colorful कार्प ( Carassius auratus ) native to east एशिया.
It was पहला domesticated in China अधिक than a thousand सालो ago, and several distinct breeds have since महरूम developed.
Goldfish breeds vary greatly in आकार, देह shape, जोडे configuration और coloration ( various combinations of श्वेत, पीला, नारंगी, red, भूरा, और black हैं known ).
Uncooked rouladen
rouladen ( or rinderroulade, singular : roulade ) is a German meat roulade प्रायः consisting of बेकन, onions, सरसों और pickles wrapped in thinly sliced beef जिससे is तब cooked.
In some countries, the roulade is also known as `` beef olive ''.
बीफ or veal is used as meat though कुछ food scholars tend to believe that the असली संस्करण was probably venison or pork, और पोर्क is still popular in कुछ areas.
The बीफ rouladen as we know उन्हें today have become लोकप्रिय over the last सदी.
The काटें is usually topside बीफ or silverside चूंकि इस is the cheaper cut.
The अधिक महंगी version होता be the गोलाकार steak, भी ज्ञात as rump steak.
The मांस is cut into large, thin slices.
the filling is a mixture of smoked and पकाया पोर्क belly, कटा onions and chopped अचार ( gurken ) which is at टाइम्स varied by adding minced meat, सॉसेज meat, पाइन nuts and mustard.
The mixture varies इससे region to region.
rouladen हैं traditionally served for dinner.
Red wine is often served with this dish.
Typical eukaryotic cell.
Cellular respiration is the नियत of the metabolic reactions and processes that लो प्लेस in the कोशिकाएं of जीवों to convert biochemical energy इससे nutrients into एडीनोसिन ट्राइफॉस्फेट ( ATP ), and then रिलीज waste products.
the प्रतिक्रियाएँ involved in श्वसन are catabolic reactions, which break विशाल molecules into smaller ones, releasing energy in the process as कमजोर so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products.
Respiration is एक of the key तरीके a cell gains useful energy to fuel cellular activity.
सेल्यूलर श्वसन is माना an ऊष्माक्षेपी रेडॉक्स reaction.
the overall प्रतिक्रिया is broken into many छोटी ones when it occurs in the देह, सबसे of जिससे हैं रेडॉक्स प्रतिक्रियाएँ themselves.
हालांकि technically, सेल्यूलर श्वसन is a दहन reaction, it clearly करता नहीं resemble one when it occurs in a living cell.
This अंतर is because it occurs in many separate steps.
While the overall reaction is a दहन reaction, no single प्रतिक्रिया that comprises it is a combustion प्रतिक्रिया.
Nutrients that are commonly प्रयुक्त by एनिमल और plant cells in respiration include शुगर, अमीनो acids and वसीय acids, और a common oxidizing agent ( इलेक्ट्रॉन acceptor ) is आणविक ऑक्सीजन ( o2 ).
The उर्जा भंडारित in ATP ( its third phosphate समूह is weakly bonded to the rest of the अणु और is cheaply टूटा allowing stronger bonds to form, thereby transferring energy for use by the कोशिका ) can then be प्रयुक्त to drive प्रक्रियाओं requiring उर्जा, सहित biosynthesis, locomotion or परिवहन of अणुओं across कोशिका membranes.
Countries by 2011 GDP ( nominal ) according to the CIA World Factbook.
This आलेख includes a सूची of countries in the संसार sorted by उनके gross domestic product ( GDP ), the market value of all फाइनल goods and सेवाएं इससे a स्वदेश in a दिए साल.
The जीडीपी dollar estimates presented यहाँ are calculated at market or government official exchange rates.
Several economies जिससे हैं नहीं considered to be देशों ( world, the EU, and some निर्भर territories ) are included in the सूचियाँ because they appear in the स्त्रोत.
These economies हैं not ranked in the charts यहाँ, लकिन हैं listed where applicable.
The figures presented यहाँ do नहीं take into खाता differences in the cost of जीना in different countries, और the results can vary greatly from one year to another based on fluctuations in the exchange rates of the country 's करेंसी.
Such fluctuations may बदलें a country 's ranking इससे one year to the next, भी हालांकि they प्रायः मेक छोटी or no difference to the standard of जीना of its जनसांख्यिकी.
Therefore these figures should be प्रयुक्त with caution.
कुछ countries/regions may have नागरिकों जिससे are on औसत धनवान.
ये countries/regions could appear in this list as having a छोटी GDP.
This होता be क्युकी the country/region listed रै a small population, and therefore small कुल economy ; the GDP is गणना as the population times the wealth per capita.
comparisons of national माल हैं also अक्सर made on the आधार of खरीदना शक्ति parity ( ppp ), to adjust लिये differences in the cost of जीना in different countries.
( See सूची of देशों by GDP ( PPP ) )
ppp largely removes the exchange रेट problem, but has its own drawbacks ; it does not reflect the मान of आर्थिक output in अंतरराष्ट्रीय trade, और it also requires अधिक estimation than नाममात्र GDP.
on the whole, ppp per capita figures हैं more narrowly spread than nominal जीडीपी per capita figures.
The पहला list includes आंकड़ा compiled by the संयुक्त Nations आंकडे प्रभाग for 2011.
The second list largely includes आंकड़ा ( अनुमान ) compiled by the International मौद्रिक निधि for 2012.
the तीसरा सूची shows the संसार Bank 's mostly 2011 estimates, and the चौथी list includes mostly 2012 estimates from the सीआईए World Factbook.
Lapping is a machining process, in which two surfaces हैं rubbed साथ with an abrasive between उन्हें, by हाथ गति or by रास्ता of a machine.
This can take दो फ़ॉर्म.
the पहला type of lapping ( traditionally पुकारा grinding ), typically involves rubbing a भंगुर material such as कांच against a surface such as आयरन or glass itself ( also known as the `` गोद '' or पीस tool ) साथ an abrasive ऐसे as एल्यूमिनियम oxide, jeweller 's रूज, optician 's रूज, emery, सिलिकॉन carbide, डायमंड, etc., in between उन्हें.
This produces microscopic conchoidal fractures as the abrasive rolls परिचय between the दो सतहों and removes material from both.
The other form of lapping involves a softer material such as pitch or a ceramic लिये the lap, जिससे is `` चार्ज '' with the अक्खड़.
The lap is then प्रयुक्त to काटें a harder material—the workpiece.
the अक्खड़ embeds भीतर the softer material जिससे holds it और permits it to score across and cut the harder material.
लिया to a finer सीमा, इस will produce a polished सतह ऐसे as साथ a polishing cloth on an ऑटोमोबाइल, or a polishing cloth or पॉलिशिंग पिच upon कांच or steel.
लिया to the ultimate सीमा, साथ the सहायता of accurate interferometry और specialized पॉलिशिंग machines or skilled hand polishing, lensmakers can produce surfaces that are चपटा to बेहतर than 30 nanometers.
This is एक twentieth of the wavelength of light इससे the commonly used 632.8 nm helium नियॉन laser light source.
सतहों this flat can be molecularly bonded ( optically contacted ) by bringing them together under the right conditions.
( This is not the same as the wringing प्रभाव of Johansson blocks, although it is similar ).
the term `` America 's टोली '' is a लोकप्रिय उपनाम in the United States that refers to the डलास Cowboys in the National फ़ुटबॉल लीग.
The nickname originated with the team 's 1978 highlight film, where the narrator opens with the following introduction : The term is recognized and प्रायः प्रयुक्त by मीडिया outlets, including ESPN, याहू !, HBO Sports, and Sports Illustrated.
My दाई 's a Vampire ( French : Ma gardienne est un vampire ) is a 2011 कनाडाई टेलीविज़न श्रेणी, आधारित on the टेलीविज़न film of the same नाम.
In Canada, the श्रेणी premiered in फ्रेंच on Télétoon on February 28, 2011, in English on teletoon on March 14, 2011, और on Disney Channel in the United राज्य on June 27, 2011.
The show was created by Fresh TV, creators of 6teen and Total Drama.
The show फ़ॉलो Ethan Morgan ( मैथ्यू Knight ), जो, in the television फिल्मी, learns that his दाई Sarah ( Vanessa मॉर्गन ) is a पिशाच.
in the film, he learns he is समर्थ to have visions and उसके best friend बेनी वीयर ( Atticus मिशेल ) is a spellmaster.
The series फ़ॉलो the three as they take on अलौकिक forces and have adventures, with occasional सहायता from fellow vampires रोरी ( Cameron Kennedy ) and Erica ( Kate टॉड ), जबकि dealing साथ the troubles of regular ऊँची स्कूल life.
a दूसरी ऋतु थी confirmed to start production in September 2011 and it first premiered on Disney Channel on June 29, 2012, it premiered on Teletoon September 6, 2012.
Télétoon started featuring season 2 sneak-peak episodes on October 28, 2012 और premiered it on January 10, 2013
Dodge b Series utility circa 1950, driven by Albert Namatjira
A पिकअप truck or pick-up, often simply referred to as a pickup, is a light motor vehicle साथ an open-top, पश्च कार्गो area ( bed ).
In उत्तर अमेरिका, the term pickup is प्रयुक्त for लाइट trucks with a हल्का ड्यूटी chassis and factory built, एकीकृत bed, as well as for coupé यूटिलिटी vehicles, often आधारित on a निजी car chassis, but also प्रायः on a special dedicated chassi for ऐसे उपयोग.
कुछ countries have their अपना शर्तें similar to पिकअप, such as ute in Australia and नई Zealand, or bakkie in South Africa.
विशाल पिकअप ट्रक are somewhat rare in Europe, जहाँ वैन and लाइट lorries are commonly प्रयुक्त for similar roles.
The President of the United States of America ( POTUS ) is the सिर of state and head of सरकारी of the United राज्य.
The president leads the executive शाखा of the federal सरकारी and is the commander-in-chief of the United राज्य हथियारबंद शक्तियां.
Article ii of the U.S. Constitution vests the कार्यपालिका power of the संयुक्त राज्य in the president and charges him with the निष्पादन of federal विधि, alongside the responsibility of appointing संघीय executive, diplomatic, regulatory, and न्यायिक officers, and concluding treaties साथ विदेशी powers, with the advice and consent of the सीनेट.
the अध्यक्ष is further सशक्त to grant federal pardons और reprieves, and to convene and adjourn either or both घरों of कॉंग्रेस अंतर्गत असाधारण हालातों.
Since the founding of the संयुक्त States, the power of the president and the संघीय सरकारी have grown substantially and प्रत्येक आधुनिक अध्यक्ष, despite possessing no formal legislative powers परे हस्ताक्षर or vetoing congressionally passed bills, is largely responsible लिये dictating the legislative agenda of his party और the foreign and domestic policy of the United States.
The अध्यक्ष is frequently वर्णित as the most powerful person in the world.
The president is indirectly elected by the people through the Electoral College to a four-year term, and is one of तभी two nationally elected federal officers, the other होने the वाइस अध्यक्ष of the United States.
the Twenty-second Amendment, adopted in 1951, prohibits anyone इससे कभी होने elected to the presidency लिये a third full term.
it also prohibits a व्यक्ति इससे होने elected to the presidency more than once if that व्यक्ति previously had served as president, or acting president, for more than दो years of another person 's पद as president.
in all, 43 individuals have served 55 four-year शर्तें.
on January 20, 2009, Barack Obama became the 44th और current president.
on नवम्बर 6, 2012, he was re-elected and is scheduled to serve जबतक जनवरी 20, 2017.
बोतलबंद mineral water
बोतलबंद water is drinking water ( e.g., well water, distilled water, Mineral जल, or वसन्त जल ) packaged in प्लास्टिक or कांच जल बोतलों.
Bottled water may be carbonated or नहीं.
Sizes range from small single serving बोतलों to large carboys for जल coolers.
मैप of the major नदियाँ, झीलों, और reservoirs in इण्डिया
मैप प्रर्दशित नदियाँ and flood prone क्षेत्रों in इण्डिया
Rivers of इण्डिया खेल an important भूमिका in the lives of the Indian people.
The river प्रणालियों provide irrigation, potable water, cheap परिवहन, विद्युत, और the livelihoods लिये a large number of people all over the country and to rural areas.
This easily explains why nearly all the प्रमुख cities of India are located by the banks of rivers.
The नदियाँ also have an important भूमिका in Hindu mythology and हैं considered holy by all हिन्दुओं in the देश.
सात major नदियाँ साथ with their numerous tributaries make up the river प्रणाली of इण्डिया.
Most of the नदियाँ pour उनके waters into the Bay of बंगाल ; however, some of the rivers जिनकी courses take उन्हें through the पश्चिमी भाग of the country and towards the east of the state of himachal pradesh खाली into the Arabian समुद्र.
Parts of लद्दाख, northern parts of the aravlli दायरा and the arid parts of the थार मरुस्थल have inland नाले.
Dr.Francis Buchanan surveyed the courses of the नदियाँ of India along साथ their tributaries और शाखाओं in 1810-11 AD and प्रस्तुत a minute account of it.
the shifting of the courses and bed over the सदियां is बहुत उल्लेखनीय.
Many of the channels mentioned in that survey have अभी become मुर्दे, dried or even विलुप्त.
All प्रमुख नदियाँ of India originate इससे one of the तीन प्रमुख watersheds :
the हिमालय and the Karakoram सीमाएँ
Vindhya and Satpura सीमाएँ and Chotanagpur पठार in central India
Sahyadri or Western Ghats in पश्चिमी इण्डिया
the Bretton वुड्स system of मौद्रिक management स्थापित the rules लिये वाणिज्यिक और financial relations among the संसार 's प्रमुख औद्योगिक राज्य in the mid-20th century.
The bretton Woods system was the पहला उदाहरण of a fully negotiated मौद्रिक order intended to govern monetary relations among स्वतंत्र nation-states.
Preparing to rebuild the international economic प्रणाली as World युद्ध ii थी still raging, 730 delegates from सब 44 अलाइड nations gathered at the माउंट Washington Hotel in bretton वुड्स, नई Hampshire, United States, for the United Nations Monetary और Financial सम्मेलन.
The delegates deliberated दौरान 1–22 July 1944, and हस्ताक्षरित the Agreement on its फाइनल day.
Setting up a system of rules, institutions, और procedures to विनियमित the international मौद्रिक प्रणाली, the planners at Bretton Woods established the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) and the International बैंको for पुनर्निर्माण and Development ( IBRD ), जिससे today is भाग of the World Bank Group.
These organizations became operational in 1945 बाद a sufficient क्रमांक of countries had ratified the agreement.
the मुख्य सुविधाएँ of the Bretton Woods system were an दायित्व लिये प्रत्येक country to अपनाना a monetary policy that maintained the एक्सचेंज rate by tying its करेंसी to the u.S. dollar और the ability of the IMF to सेतु अस्थाई imbalances of payments.
On 15 August 1971, the संयुक्त States unilaterally terminated convertibility of the us $ to gold.
इस brought the bretton Woods system to an end and saw the dollar become fiat currency.
This action, referred to as the निक्सन shock, created the हालात in which the United राज्य dollar became a आरक्षित currency used by अनेक states.
at the same time, अनेक fixed currencies ( such as GBP, for example ), भी became फ़्री floating.
Ducati Motor Holding S.p.A. is an Italian कम्पनी that डिजाइन और manufactures motorcycles.
Headquartered in Bologna, इटली, डुकाटी is स्वामित्व by Audi through its Italian subsidiary Lamborghini.
A credit स्कोर is a numerical expression आधारित on a सांख्यिकीय analysis of a person 's क्रेडिट files, to represent the creditworthiness of that व्यक्ति.
a क्रेडिट score is primarily based on क्रेडिट रपट information typically sourced इससे credit bureaus.
Lenders, ऐसे as banks and credit कार्ड companies, use credit स्कोर to evaluate the potential रिस्क posed by lending money to consumers और to mitigate losses due to bad debt.
Lenders use credit scores to determine who qualifies for a loan, at what ब्याज rate, and what credit limits.
Lenders also उपयोग credit स्कोर to determine जिससे customers are likely to bring in the most revenue.
The use of क्रेडिट or पहचान scoring prior to authorizing access or granting credit is an क्रियान्वयन of a विश्वसनीय प्रणाली.
Credit स्कोरिंग is not सीमित to banks.
Other संगठन, ऐसे as mobile phone companies, बीमे companies, landlords, and सरकारी departments employ the same तकनीकों.
Credit scoring भी has a लॉट of overlap साथ data mining, जिससे उपयोग many similar तकनीकों.
ये techniques combine हज़ारों of factors लकिन they are अधिक or कम similar or the same.
the सात SI आधार units and the interdependency of their definitions : लिये example, to निकालें the परिभाषा of the metre from the गति of light, the परिभाषा of the second must be known while the ampere and candela are both dependent on the परिभाषा of energy जिससे in फेरे is defined in शर्तें of length, द्रव्यमान और time.
The International प्रणाली of Units ( si ) defines सात इकाई of measure as a मौलिक set from जिससे all अन्य SI units are derived.
These si base units और उनके शारीरिक quantities are:
metre लिये length ( us अंग्रेज़ी : मीटर )
kilogram लिये द्रव्यमान ( नोट : not the gram )
दूसरी लिये time
ampere for electric वर्तमान
kelvin for तापमान
candela for luminous intensity
mole for the राशि of substance.
the SI base quantities रूप a set of mutually स्वतंत्र आयाम as required by dimensional analysis commonly employed in science और technology.
However, in a दिए realization of these इकाई वे may खूब be interdependent, i.e. defined in terms of each अन्य.
The names of SI इकाई हैं written in lowercase वर्ण ( the 'degree सेल्सियस ' meets इस rule, as 'degree ' is the ईकाई, और 'celsius ' is a modifier ).
the प्रतीकों of इकाई are लिखा in lowercase ( e.g. मीटर has the प्रतीक m ), मगर that प्रतीकों लिये units नामित बाद persons are written साथ an आरंभिक capital letter ( e.g., the hertz has the अपरकेस symbol hz ).
अनेक other units, such as the लीटर ( us अंग्रेज़ी : liter ), हैं formally not भाग of the SI, लकिन are accepted लिये use with si.
स्मारक Canyon
कोलोराडो नेशनल Monument ( locally referred to as The Monument ) is a भाग of the नेशनल पार्क Service near the नगर of Grand Junction, Colorado.
Spectacular canyons काटें deep into sandstone and even granite–gneiss–schist चट्टान formations, in कुछ areas.
This is an क्षेत्रफल of मरुस्थल land high on the कोलोराडो पठार, with पिनियन और juniper forests on the पठार.
The park hosts a चौड़ी दायरा of wildlife, including red-tailed चीलों and golden ईगल्स, ravens, jays, desert bighorn sheep, और coyotes.
क्रियाएँ include चढ़ाई, horseback सवारी, road bicycling, और दर्शनीय ड्राइव ; a visitor center on the west side contains a natural history संग्रहालय और gift दूकान.
वहीँ हैं magnificent दृश्य from trails और the Rim Rock Drive, which हवाएँ along the पठार.
आसपास are the किताब cliffs, और the largest flat-topped mountain in the world, the Grand Mesa.
Its feature attraction is स्मारक Canyon, which रनों the width of the पार्क, and शामिल rock formations ऐसे as स्वतंत्रता Monument, the Kissing Couple, और कोक Ovens.
The monument includes 20,500 acres ( 32 square miles ), much of which has महरूम recommended to Congress लिये designation as wilderness.
left to right : यूटिलिटी वर्दी, ब्लू Dress Uniform, सेवा वर्दी, and Evening पोशाक वर्दी
the वर्दी of the संयुक्त राज्य समुद्री Corps serve to फर्क Marines from सदस्यों of अन्य सेवाएं.
Among current uniforms in the संयुक्त States Armed Forces, the marines ' uniforms have been in सेवा the longest.
The समुद्री Dress ब्लू वर्दी रै, साथ few परिवर्तन, been worn in essentially इसके वर्तमान रूप since the 19th century.
North American टेलीफोन क्षेत्रफल कोड 419 और 567 serve the उत्तरपश्चिम quadrant of the U.S. राज्य of ओहियो.
The largest city परोसा by these area codes is Toledo ( और इसके suburbs of Holland, Maumee, northwood, Oregon, Ottawa Hills, Perrysburg, Rossford, sylvania, swanton, waterville, and whitehouse ).
अन्य cities परोसा by these क्षेत्रफल codes शामिल एडीए, Ashland, Bellevue, Bluffton, Bowling Green, ब्रायन, bucyrus, celina, क्लाइड, Crestline, Defiance, Delphos, Edison, Erastus, Findlay, fostoria, fremont, Galion, kenton, Lima, Mansfield, Mount gilead, नेपोलियन, नॉरवॉक, Oak हार्बर, Port क्लिंटन, sandusky, Shelby, St. marys, tiffin, अपर sandusky, Van Wert, wapakoneta, Wauseon, willard.
अन्य क्षेत्रों परोसा include the झील Erie Islands north of बंदरगाहों Clinton and west of Sandusky.
The प्रमुख area कोड, 419, was निर्मित as एक of the असली क्षेत्रफल कोड in अक्तूबर 1947 ; the overlay area code 567 थी निर्मित on January 1, 2002.
Despite the presence of Toledo, the state 's fourth-largest city, 419 was the last of Ohio 's original four क्षेत्रफल codes to have महरूम विभाजित or overlaid.
मिकी Leroy gilley ( born March 9, 1936 ) is an American country music सिंगर and संगीतकार.
हालांकि he started out singing straight-up country and पश्चिमी material in the 1970s, he moved towards a अधिक पॉप -friendly sound in the 1980s, bringing उसे further कामयाबी on नहीं बस the country चार्ट, लकिन the pop charts as well.
among his biggest हिट्स हैं `` Room Full of Roses, '' `` Do n't the लड़कियों सब मिलेंगी prettier at Closing Time, '' and the रीमेक of the Soul hit `` Stand by Me ``.
he is भी the cousin of Jerry Lee लुईस, Carl McVoy, Jim Gilley and Jimmy swaggart.
according to the संघीय विमानन Administration, gilley is a licensed पायलट, जो holds an यंत्र दरजा with commercial पायलट privileges for multi-engine airplanes, as well as private pilot privileges for सिंगल engine aircraft.
the September 11 attacks ( भी referred to as September 11, सितंबर 11th, or 9/11 ) were a series of four coordinated आतंकवादी attacks launched by the इस्लामी आतंकवादी group al-Qaeda upon the United States in New York City और the Washington, d.C. area on सितंबर 11, 2001.
Four passenger airliners were hijacked by 19 al-qaeda terrorists so they could be flown into buildings in suicide हमले.
दो of those planes, American Airlines उड़ान 11 और United एयरलाइंस उड़ान 175, were क्रैश into the उत्तर और दक्षिण मीनारें, respectively, of the संसार Trade Center जटिल in New यॉर्क City.
Within दो घंटों, दोनो towers collapsed साथ मलबा and the resulting fires causing partial or complete पतन of all अन्य buildings in the wtc complex, as well as major damage to ten other विशाल surrounding structures.
A third plane, American एयरलाइंस Flight 77, was crashed into the प्रस्तुतीकरण ( the मुख्यालय of the संयुक्त States विभाग of Defense ), अग्रणी to a आंशिक पतन in its western side.
The fourth plane, United Airlines Flight 93, was targeted at the United States कैपिटल in Washington, D.C., but क्रैश into a field near Shanksville, पेन्सिलवेनिया, after इसके passengers tried to overcome the hijackers.
In कुल, लगभग 3,000 people died in the attacks, including the 227 civilians and 19 hijackers सवार the four planes.
Suspicion जल्दी गिरी on al-Qaeda.
Although the group 's leader, ओसामा बिन Laden, initially अस्वीकृत कोई भागीदारी, in 2004 he claimed responsibility for the हमले.
Al-Qaeda और bin Laden cited U.S. support of Israel, the presence of U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia, and प्रतिबंधों against Iraq as motives for the attacks.
The संयुक्त राज्य responded to the हमले by launching the War on आतंक and आक्रमणकारी Afghanistan to depose the Taliban, जिससे था harbored al-Qaeda.
Many countries strengthened their anti-terrorism legislation and expanded law प्रवर्तन powers.
Having evaded capture लिये years, bin लादेन was located and killed by u.S. शक्तियां in May 2011.
The विनाश of the Twin मीनारें and other गुण caused गंभीर damage to the economy of Lower Manhattan and had a significant प्रभाव on global बाज़ार.
क्लीनअप of the World Trade Center साईट थी समाप्त in May 2002, और the प्रस्तुतीकरण was repaired भीतर a साल.
numerous memorials have महरूम constructed, सहित the National September 11 Memorial & संग्रहालय in नई York, the प्रस्तुतीकरण Memorial, और the उड़ान 93 नेशनल Memorial in Pennsylvania.
After a lengthy विलंब, the One संसार व्यापार बीच is अपेक्षित to be completed at Ground शून्य in New York City in 2013.
Finding nemo is a 2003 American computer-animated comedy-drama adventure फिल्मी written and directed by एंड्रयू stanton, released by Walt Disney तस्वीरें, और the fifth फिल्मी उत्पादित by Pixar Animation studios.
It tells the स्टोरी of the over-protective clownfish named Marlin ( Albert Brooks ) who, साथ साथ a regal tang नामित Dory ( Ellen degeneres ), searches for his abducted son nemo ( सिकंदर gould ) all the way to Sydney Harbour.
साथ the way, Marlin learns to take risks और let Nemo लो care of himself.
It is Pixar 's पहला फिल्मी to be released in cinemas in the northern hemisphere गर्मियाँ.
The film was re-released लिये the first time in 3d on सितंबर 14, 2012, and it was released on Blu-ray on December 4, 2012.
a sequel, ढूंढना Dory, is फिलहाल in development, नियत to be released on नवम्बर 25, 2015.
The film received universal critical acclaim and won the Academy पुरस्कार for Best Animated विशेषता, and was nominated in तीन अधिक categories सहित Best असली Screenplay.
It थी the second highest-grossing film of 2003, earning a total of $ 921 million विश्वव्यापी.
ढूंढना nemo is also the best-selling dvd of सब समय, with over 40 million copies बेची as of 2006, and was the highest-grossing G-rated film of all time before Pixar 's own Toy Story 3 overtook it.
It is also the 23rd highest-grossing फिल्मी of सब time, as well as the 3rd highest-grossing animated film.
in 2008, the American Film संस्थान नामित it the tenth greatest animated फिल्मी ever made दौरान their Top 10.
the sixth season of अमेरिका 's Best नृत्य Crew, भी known as अमेरिका 's Best नृत्य Crew : ऋतु of the Superstars, premiered on April 7, 2011 and concluded on June 5, 2011.
Auditions were held in चार cities इससे जनवरी 21 through फ़रवरी 5 : शिकागो, Houston, नई York, and Los एंजिल्स.
इस season takes a अलग route इससे पास्ट सीज़न.
The crews जरूर perform to the म्यूज़िक of एक specific artist each week, including रिहाना, Lil Wayne, and other लोकप्रिय stars.
This season also features special guest appearances by various music celebrities सहित Justin बीबर, The Black Eyed मटर, Katy Perry, Kesha, निकी Minaj, and kanye West.
डोमिनिक `` D-Trix '' Sandoval, a पूर्व member of क्वेस्ट Crew, the winner of the third ऋतु of America 's Best Dance Crew, joins returning judges Lil Mama और JC chasez as the newest न्यायधीश.
In the ऋतु finale, i am me was declared the winner of Season 6 और received the $ 100,000 ( USD ) prize.
in the United States, सोशल सुरक्षा refers to the Old-Age, survivors, और विकलांगता Insurance ( OASDI ) federal कार्यक्रम.
The original Social Security अधिनियम ( 1935 ) and the current संस्करण of the Act, as amended, encompass अनेक social welfare and social बीमे कार्यक्रम.
Social सुरक्षा is primarily funded through dedicated payroll taxes called Federal Insurance योगदान Act कर ( fica ).
Tax जमा हैं formally entrusted to the Federal old-age and survivors बीमे Trust Fund, the संघीय विकलांगता Insurance विश्वास निधि, the Federal हॉस्पिटल बीमे विश्वास Fund, or the Federal Supplementary Medical बीमे Trust निधि जिससे comprise the सोशल सुरक्षा विश्वास Fund.
Upward redistribution of income is responsible लिये about 43 % of the projected सोशल सुरक्षा shortfall over the next 75 years.
according to economist Martin Feldstein, the संयुक्त spending लिये all सोशल insurance programs in 2003 constituted 37 % of सरकारी expenditure and 7 % of the gross domestic उत्पाद.
सोशल Security is currently estimated to रखना roughly 40 percent of all Americans आयु 65 or पुरानी out of गरीबी.
the Social Security प्रशासन is headquartered in woodlawn, मेरीलैंड, बस west of Baltimore.
The दारू by आवाज़ दिखाया on a bottle of absinthe.
दारू by volume ( abbreviated as abv, abv, or alc/vol ) is a standard measure of how much दारू ( ethanol ) is contained in an alcoholic beverage ( expressed as a percentage of total volume ).
The abv मानक is used worldwide.
In कुछ देशों, alcohol by volume is referred to as डिग्री Gay-Lussac ( बाद the French chemist जोसेफ Louis gay-lussac ).
Laurel खोखला is a गाँव in the कस्बा of Oyster खाड़ी in Nassau County, New York in the United राज्य.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 1,952 at the 2010 census.
Charles जॉन huffam डिकेंस ( ; 7 February 1812 – 9 June 1870 ) was an English writer and सोशल आलोचक.
he created कुछ of the संसार 's सबसे memorable fictional characters and is generally regarded as the महानतम novelist of the Victorian period.
During his जीवन, उसके works enjoyed unprecedented कीर्ति, और by the बीसवीं सदी his literary genius थी broadly acknowledged by आलोचकों and विद्वानों.
His novels and short stories continue to be widely popular.
Born in Portsmouth, इंग्लैण्ड, डिकेंस बाएँ school to work in a factory after उसके father थी thrown into कर्जदार ' prison.
हालांकि he था छोटी औपचारिक शिक्षा, उसके जल्दी impoverishment drove उसे to सफल.
Over उसके करियर he edited a साप्ताहिक जर्नल for 20 years, wrote 15 novels, 5 novellas और hundreds of short कहानियां and non-fiction articles, lectured and performed extensively, was an indefatigable letter लेखक, और campaigned vigorously लिये children 's rights, शिक्षा, and other social reforms.
Dickens sprang to fame with the 1836 serial प्रकाशन of the Pickwick Papers.
Within a few years he था become an अंतरराष्ट्रीय literary celebrity, famous for उसके humour, व्यंग्य, और keen observation of character और समाज.
उसके novels, most published in monthly or साप्ताहिक instalments, pioneered the serial प्रकाशन of कथा fiction, जिससे became the प्रबल विक्टोरियन mode for novel प्रकाशन.
The किस्त स्वरूप अनुमत Dickens to evaluate his दर्शक 's reaction, and he प्रायः modified उसके प्लाट and अक्षर development based on such feedback.
For example, जब his wife 's chiropodist expressed distress at the रास्ता मिस mowcher in दाउद Copperfield लगा to प्रतिबिंबित her disabilities, डिकेंस गई on to improve the character with धनात्मक lineaments.
fagin in ओलिवर ट्विस्ट apparently mirrors the प्रसिद्ध fence Ikey सुलेमान ; His caricature of leigh Hunt in the फिगर of Mr Skimpole in bleak House थी likewise toned down on सलाह from some of उसके friends, as they read episodes.
in the वही novel, both Lawrence Boythorne और मूनी the beadle are drawn from real जीवन – boythorne इससे Walter Savage landor and Mooney from 'Looney ', a beadle at Salisbury वर्गाकार.
His plots were carefully constructed, और Dickens प्रायः wove in तत्व from topical events into his narratives.
Masses of the illiterate ग़रीब chipped in ha'pennies to have each new monthly एपीसोड read to them, खोलने up and inspiring a new class of readers.
डिकेंस was regarded as the साहित्यिक colossus of his age.
His 1843 novella, a Christmas Carol, is one of the most influential works कभी written, and it remains लोकप्रिय और continues to inspire adaptations in every artistic genre.
उसके creative genius has been praised by fellow writers—from leo टालस्टाय to G. K. चेस्टरटन and जार्ज Orwell —for इसके realism, comedy, prose style, unique characterisations, and सोशल आलोचना.
On the अन्य हाथ ऑस्कर वाइल्ड, हेनरी जेम्स और वर्जिनिया Woolf complained of a lack of मनोवैज्ञानिक depth, loose लिखने, और a रग of saccharine sentimentalism.
मार्टिन Luther किंग और other civil अधिकारों leaders in front of the statue of Abraham Lincoln, August 28, 1963
the सिविल अधिकारों movement was a series of विश्वव्यापी राजनैतिक आंदोलनों लिये समता पहले the law कि peaked in the 1960s.
In many situations it took the form of अभियान of सिविल resistance aimed at achieving change by nonviolent forms of resistance.
In कुछ situations it was accompanied, or followed, by सिविल अशांति और हथियारबंद विद्रोह.
the process was long और tenuous in अनेक countries, और many of these movements did not fully achieve उनके goals हालांकि, the प्रयत्न of these आंदोलनों किया lead to सुधार in the legal rights of previously दलित groups of people.
The main aim of the civil rights movement शामिल, and include, ensuring कि the rights of all लोगों हैं equally protected by the law, including the rights of minorities.
Civil rights movements ranging from the वैश्विक lgbt अधिकारों गति to the global महिलाओं 's rights गति to various racial अल्पसंख्यक rights movements around the world continue.
The 2010 फीफा World Cup was the 19th FIFA World Cup, the world championship for men 's नेशनल संघ फ़ुटबॉल टीमों.
it took place in South अफ़्रीकी from 11 जून to 11 July 2010.
the bidding process for होस्टिंग the टूर्नामेंट finals was खोलें only to African राष्ट्र ; in 2004, the international फ़ुटबॉल federation, FIFA, selected South Africa over Egypt and Morocco to become the first अफ़्रीकी nation to host the फाइनल.
The matches were निभाई in ten stadiums in नौ मेजबान cities around the देश, with the फाइनल निभाई at the सॉकर City स्टेडियम in दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी 's largest city, Johannesburg.
Thirty-two teams यहूद चयनित for भागीदारी via a worldwide qualification tournament that began in अगस्त 2007.
in the first गोलाकार of the tournament finals, the teams competed in round-robin groups of four teams for points, साथ the top two teams in each group proceeding.
These sixteen teams advanced to the नॉकआउट stage, जहाँ three rounds of खेल decided which teams would participate in the final.
in the फाइनल, Spain, the European champions, defeated third-time finalists the नीदरलैंड्स 1–0 after अतिरिक्त time, साथ आन्द्रेस iniesta 's goal in the 116th minute giving Spain their first world शीर्षक, बनने the eighth स्वदेश to जीत the टूर्नामेंट, and the पहला European nation to जीत the टूर्नामेंट बाहर its घर continent.
मेजबान स्वदेश South अफ़्रीकी, 2006 world champions Italy और 2006 runners-up फ़्रांस were all eliminated in the first round of the tournament.
it was the पहला समय that the hosts यहूद eliminated in the पहला round.
नई जीलैंड साथ their three draws यहूद the only अपराजित टोली in the tournament, but were also eliminated in the पहला गोलाकार.
The McMuffin is a family of नाश्ता sandwiches in various sizes और configurations, बेची by the fast-food restaurant कड़ी मैकडोनाल्ड 's.
The अंडा mcmuffin is the हस्ताक्षर नाश्ता सैंडविच ; it थी invented by the late McDonald 's franchisee हर्ब पीटरसन in the लेट 1960s and was introduced nationwide in 1972.
जॉन Lennon थी an English musician who gained worldwide fame as one of the founders of The Beatles, लिये his subsequent सोलो करियर, और लिये his राजनैतिक activism and शांतिवाद.
he was shot by Mark David chapman at the प्रवेश of the building जहाँ he lived, the Dakota, in नई यॉर्क City on 8 दिसम्बर 1980.
लेनन had just लौटे from रिकार्ड संयंत्र स्टुडियो साथ his wife, Yoko Ono.
लेनन was pronounced मुर्दे on arrival at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, where it was stated कि nobody could have जिया लिये अधिक than a few मिनट्स बाद sustaining ऐसे चोटों.
shortly after लोकल news स्टेशन reported Lennon 's death, crowds gathered at रूज़वेल्ट Hospital और in front of the Dakota.
Lennon थी cremated on 10 December 1980 at the Ferncliff कब्रिस्तान in Hartsdale, नई यॉर्क ; the ashes were given to Ono, जो chose not to hold a अंत्येष्टि for उसे.
The first report of Lennon 's death to a u.S. national audience was announced by Howard Cosell, on ABC 's Monday Night Football.
New Orleans ( or, locally or ; ) is a major United राज्य port और the largest city और metropolitan area in the state of louisiana.
the जनसांख्यिकी of the city थी 343,829 as of the 2010 U.S. Census.
the New Orleans metropolitan area ( New orleans–metairie–kenner Metropolitan Statistical Area ) had a population of 1,167,764 in 2010 and was the 46th largest in the संयुक्त राज्य.
the New Orleans–Metairie–Bogalusa Combined सांख्यिकीय Area, a larger व्यापार क्षेत्रफल, had a 2010 population of 1,214,932.
the city is नामित after Orléans, a नगर located on the Loire River in Centre, फ़्रांस, and is well known लिये इसके distinct फ्रेंच क्रियोल वास्तुकला, as well as इसके cross-cultural and बहुभाषी विरासत.
New Orleans is also famous for इसके भोजन, music ( particularly as the जन्मस्थान of जैज़ ), और its सालाना जश्न और festivals, most notably Mardi ग्रा.
The नगर is प्रायः referred to as the `` सबसे unique '' in अमेरिका.
New Orleans is स्तिथ in southeastern louisiana, straddling the मिसिसिपी River.
the नगर और Orleans मोहल्ला ( ) are.
The city और parish हैं bounded by the parishes of St. Tammany to the north, st. Bernard to the east, plaquemines to the south and Jefferson to the south और वेस्ट.
Lake Pontchartrain, part of जिससे is included in the city हद, lies to the north और Lake Borgne झूठ to the east.
the United States presidential election of 1968 was the 46th quadrennial presidential election, held on Tuesday, नवम्बर 5, 1968.
The Republican nominee, पूर्व vice-president Richard निक्सन, won the election over the Democratic nominee, incumbent vice-president Hubert Humphrey.
निक्सन ran on a अभियान कि promised to restore law and order to the nation 's शहरों, torn by दंगे and crime.
विश्लेषकों have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning election as it permanently disrupted the नई Deal Coalition कि had वर्चस्व अध्यक्षीय politics for 36 सालो.
Coming four years after डेमोक्रेट Lyndon B. Johnson जीती in a historic भूस्खलन, the election देखी the incumbent president मजबूर आउट of the race and a Republican elected for the first time in बारह years.
it थी a wrenching नेशनल experience, conducted during a साल of violence कि included the हत्या of civil rights leader Martin लूथर King, jr., and subsequent race riots across the nation, the assasination of Democratic presidential candidate रॉबर्ट F. कैनेडी, widespread opposition to the Vietnam युद्ध आरपार university campuses, and violent confrontations between पुलिस and anti-war protesters at the 1968 लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल Convention as the लोकतांत्रिक party split again and again.
The election प्रदर्शित the strongest third पार्टी effort since 1912 by former Alabama Governor जार्ज Wallace, a डेमोक्रेट.
Because वालेस 's campaign opposed federal हस्तक्षेप in the दक्षिण to end school segregation, he carried the Deep दक्षिण और ran well in ethnic औद्योगिक districts in the North.
इस was the last election in which New यॉर्क had the most votes in the electoral कॉलेज ( 43 votes ).
बाद the 1970 census, California gained the सबसे electoral votes और has remained the most populous state चूंकि then.
इस is the latest election जहाँ a presidential ticket won बगैर carrying the vice presidential प्रत्याशी 's home state.
Karak ( ; भी known as Garak, Garrak, और gorg ) is a village in Gamasiyab ग्रामीण ज़िला, in the Central ज़िला of Nahavand County, हमादान Province, Iran.
At the 2006 census, इसके population थी 294, in 65 families.
कर्ट 's हस्ताक्षर
Kurt डोनाल्ड कोबेन ( फ़रवरी 20, 1967 – April 5, 1994 ) थी an American संगीतकार and artist, बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the सीसे singer, guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge बैंड Nirvana.
Cobain formed निर्वाण with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen, Washington in 1985 और स्थापित it as भाग of the सिएटल music झाँकी, having its debut album Bleach released on the स्वतंत्र रिकार्ड लेबल Sub पॉप in 1989.
After signing with major लेबल DGC Records, the बैंड मिला भेदन success साथ `` खुश्बू Like Teen Spirit `` from इसके दूसरी एल्बम Nevermind ( 1991 ).
following the success of nevermind, Nirvana was labeled `` the flagship बैंड '' of पीढी x, और Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation ''.
Cobain, however, थी often uncomfortable and कुंठित, believing उसके message और artistic vision to have महरूम misinterpreted by the पब्लिक, साथ his personal issues प्रायः subject to media attention.
he challenged Nirvana 's audience with its final studio album In Utero ( 1993 ).
During the पिछला years of his life, Cobain struggled with heroin addiction, illness and depression.
He भी था परेशानी coping साथ उसके fame और पब्लिक image, and the पेशेवर and lifelong निजी pressures surrounding himself and उसके बीवी, musician Courtney Love.
on April 8, 1994, Cobain थी found मुर्दे at उसके घर in Seattle, the victim of what was officially ruled a आत्महत्या by a self-inflicted shotgun घाव to the head.
The circumstances of उसके मौत at आयु 27 have become a topic of पब्लिक fascination और debate.
Since their debut, Nirvana, with Cobain as a songwriter, has बेची over 25 लाख एल्बम in the U.S., and over 50 million विश्वव्यापी.
a millwright is a craftsman or tradesman सगाई with the निर्माण और मेंटेनेंस of मशीनरी.
अधिक generally in the English speaking संसार, early millwrights यहूद विशेषज्ञ carpenters जो erected machines प्रयुक्त in कृषि, खाना processing and processing lumber and पेपर.
in the early part of the Industrial Revolution, उनके कौशल were दबाया into सेवा building the earliest संचालित वस्त्र mills.
Modern millwrights work साथ steel and other materials in जोड to लकडी and जरूर प्रायः combine the कौशल of several skilled trades in order to सफलतापूर्वक fabricate industrial machinery or to assemble machines from pre-fabricated parts.
the modern millwright must भी be able to read blueprints and other schematics to aid उसे in the निर्माण of जटिल systems.
millwrights are अक्सर unionized, साथ around 45 % unionized in the us, although अनुभवी millwrights often नियत themselves up as स्वतंत्र contractors.
the समायोजन Bureau is a 2011 अमरीकी romantic कार्रवाई thriller film loosely based on the Philip K. Dick short स्टोरी, `` Adjustment Team ``.
The film थी written और directed by जार्ज nolfi and सितारों मैट डैमन और एमिली कुंद.
The डाल also includes एंथोनी mackie, John Slattery, Michael Kelly, और Terence Stamp.
the score was composed by Thomas न्युमैन, साथ two गीतों by रिचर्ड Ashcroft ( `` भविष्य 's Bright '' for the खोलने sequence ; `` Are You तैयार ? '' लिये the closing credits ).
Sodium azide is the inorganic यौगिक साथ the formula NaN3.
This colorless salt is the gas-forming घटक in many car airbag systems.
It is used लिये the preparation of other azide यौगिकों.
It is an ionic substance, is highly soluble in जल, and is very acutely toxic.
Double रेनबो और supernumerary rainbows on the अंदर of the प्राथमिक arc.
The छाया of the फ़ोटोग्राफ़र 's सिर on the bottom marks the केन्द्र of the रेनबो circle ( antisolar point ).
A rainbow is an ऑप्टिकल और meteorological phenomenon that is caused by reflection of लाइट in water droplets in the धरती 's माहौल, resulting in a वर्णक्रम of light appearing in the sky.
it takes the form of a multicoloured चाप.
rainbows caused by sunlight सदा appear in the section of sky सीधे opposite the सूर्य.
in a `` प्राथमिक रेनबो '', the arc shows red on the outer भाग and violet on the inner side.
This रेनबो is caused by light होने refracted जबकि प्रवेश a droplet of water, then reflected inside on the वापस of the droplet और refracted again जब leaving it.
In a double rainbow, a second arc is seen बाहर the प्राथमिक arc, and रै the अनुक्रम of its colours reversed, red facing toward the अन्य one, in दोनो rainbows.
इस दूसरी रेनबो is caused by लाइट reflecting twice inside water droplets.
The Conservative पार्टी, officially the रूढ़िवादी and Unionist Party और colloquially referred to as the tory Party or the Tories, is a centre-right राजनैतिक party in the संयुक्त किंगडम that espouses the philosophies of कोसा and अंग्रेजों unionism.
it is the largest राजनैतिक party in the United किंगडम, होने the largest सिंगल party in the House of Commons with 303 mps, the largest party in local government साथ 9,391 councillors, and the largest अंग्रेजों पार्टी in the European Parliament with 25 MEPs.
it governs in गठबन्धन with the Liberal Democrats, with party leader David Cameron as Prime Minister.
the Conservative Party थी founded in 1834, और थी एक of two प्रबल parties in the 19th century, along साथ the उदार पार्टी.
It बदला its name to the रूढ़िवादी और Unionist Party in 1912 बाद merging साथ the उदार यूनियनिस्ट पार्टी, although that नाम is rarely प्रयुक्त और it is generally referred to as simply the Conservative पार्टी.
in the 1920s, the उदार vote greatly diminished and the श्रमिक Party became the conservatives ' main rivals.
रूढ़िवादी Prime मंत्रियों led governments for 57 years of the 20th century, सहित विंस्टन Churchill ( 1940–45, 1951–55 ) and मार्गरेट थैचर ( 1979–90 ).
Thatcher 's tenure led to wide-ranging economic उदारीकरण and saw the Conservatives become the most eurosceptic of the three major parties.
The party was returned to government in coalition, having failed to जीत a majority, in 2010 under the अधिक `` liberal '' नेतृत्व of David Cameron.
in the European पार्लियामेंट, the Conservatives हैं the largest British पार्टी साथ 25 MEPs, who बैठना साथ the soft eurosceptic यूरोपीय conservatives and Reformists ( ecr ) संसदीय समूह, जबकि the पार्टी itself is a सदस्य of the Alliance of European Conservatives and Reformists ( aecr ) Europarty.
They are the third-largest पार्टी in the स्कॉटिश Parliament and second-largest in the वेल्श सभा.
वे यहूद formally अलाइड to the Ulster यूनियनिस्ट पार्टी ( UUP ) as भाग of the Ulster Conservatives और unionists arrangement, with the uup currently participating in the five-party Northern Ireland Executive.
Destiny 's Child was an अमरीकी R & B girl group whose final, and perhaps most recognizable, line-up comprised बेयोंस नॉलेस, Kelly Rowland and मिशेल Williams.
formed in 1990 in Houston, Texas, नियति 's चाइल्ड सदस्यों began their musical endeavors as Girl 's टीमे comprising, among others, नॉलेस, rowland, latavia roberson and LeToya luckett.
After सालो of limited success, वे were हस्ताक्षरित to कोलंबिया Records as नियति 's चाइल्ड.
Destiny 's Child थी launched into mainstream recognition following the रिलीज of उनके best-selling दूसरी एल्बम, the Writing 's on the वॉल, जिससे contained the number-one singles `` बिल्स, Bills, Bills `` और `` Say my Name ``.
despite critical and वाणिज्यिक success, the group was plagued by internal विरोध and legal turmoil, as roberson और Luckett attempted to split from the समूह 's manager Mathew Knowles, citing favoritism of Knowles और Rowland, his बेटी और niece, respectively.
Both Roberson and Luckett were soon replaced with विलियम्स and Farrah Franklin ; however, in 2000, Franklin was dismissed, leaving उन्हें as a trio.
Their तीसरा एल्बम, उत्तरजीवी, जिससे contains themes the public interpreted as a channel to the group 's experience, contains the worldwide hits `` स्वतंत्र महिलाओं ``, `` Survivor `` and `` Bootylicious ``.
in 2002, वे announced a hiatus और re-united two years बाद लिये the रिलीज of उनके चौथी स्टुडियो एल्बम, नियति Fulfilled ( 2004 ).
Destiny 's चाइल्ड has बेची more than 50 million records worldwide to तिथि.
Billboard पत्रिका ranks the group as one of the greatest musical trios of all time, the ninth सबसे कामयाब artist/band of the 2000s, and placed the group 68th in its All-Time hot 100 कलाकारों सूची in 2008.
the centers लिये Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) is a United States संघीय एजेंसी under the Department of Health and Human Services headquartered in Druid पहाड़ियाँ, unincorporated dekalb County, Georgia, in वृहद अटलांटा.
It works to protect public स्वास्थ्य और सुरक्षा by providing information to enhance स्वास्थ्य decisions, and it promotes health through partnerships साथ state health विभाग और अन्य organizations.
the CDC focus national attention on developing and applying disease prevention और control ( especially infectious रोगों and foodborne pathogens और other microbial infections ), environmental स्वास्थ्य, occupational सुरक्षा and स्वास्थ्य, health promotion, चोट prevention and education activities designed to improve the health of the people of the संयुक्त States.
the सीडीसी is the United States ' national पब्लिक health institute and is a founding सदस्य of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Association of नेशनल Public Health संस्थान.
भूकंप prediction `` is usually पारिभाषित as the specification of the time, स्थान, and परिमाण of a भविष्य earthquake within stated limits '', and विशेषकर of `` the अगला strong भूकंप to occur in a region. ''
इस can be distinguished from earthquake forecasting, which is the probabilistic assessment of सामान्य भूकंप hazard, including the frequency and परिमाण of damaging भूकंप, in a दिए area over periods of years or decades.
This can be further विशिष्ट from real-time भूकंप warning systems, which, upon डिटेक्शन of a कठोर earthquake, can provide neighboring regions a few seconds चेतावनी of potentially significant shaking.
To be उपयोगी, an भूकंप prediction जरूर be precise पर्याप्त to warrant the cost of increased precautions, including disruption of ordinary क्रियाएँ and commerce, and timely पर्याप्त कि preparation can be बना.
Predictions जरूर भी be विश्वसनीय, as false alarms and रद्द alarms हैं not only economically costly, लकिन seriously undermine confidence in, और thereby the प्रभावकारिता of, any kind of warning.
साथ over 7,000 earthquakes around the world each year with a परिमाण of 4.0 or वृहद, नगण्य success in earthquake prediction is easily obtained using sufficiently broad parameters of समय, स्थान, or magnitude.
However, such trivial `` successful पूर्वानुमान '' are not useful.
Major earthquakes हैं often followed by रिपोर्ट्स that they were पूर्वानुमानित, or at least anticipated, but no अर्जी of a successful prediction of a प्रमुख earthquake has बच close inquiry.
in the 1970s वहीँ थी तीव्र optimism amongst वैज्ञानिकों that some method of predicting भूकंप might be found, but by the 1990s continuing विफलता led many scientists to question whether it was even possible.
While अनेक वैज्ञानिकों स्टिल थाम that, given enough resources, prediction might be possible, अनेक अन्य maintain that earthquake भविष्यवाणी is inherently impossible.
डेबोरा Ann `` debby '' रयान ( born may 13, 1993 ) is an अमरीकी actress, singer, musician, songwriter और रिकार्ड निर्माता.
Ryan is best known for starring as Bailey पिकेट in the Disney Channel Original श्रेणी The सुइट जीवन on डेक.
In 2008, the Suite जीवन on Deck ranked as tv 's top श्रेणी among kids 6-11 और the no. 2 scripted श्रेणी among tweens 9-14.
रयान started acting in पेशेवर theatres at the age of सात ; in 2007 वो appeared in the Barney & Friends straight-to-dvd फिल्मी Barney : Let 's Go to the Firehouse and तब थी discovered in a nationwide search by Disney.
She is also ज्ञात for appearing in the 2008 विशेषता film the longshots as एडिथ.
in 2009, she guest स्ट्रक्चर in an एपीसोड of Wizards of waverly Place in Wizards on Deck साथ Hannah Montana as Bailey Pickett साथ with her अन्य cast mates इससे the Suite Life on Deck.
Then, in 2010, she starred in the फिल्मी 16 Wishes, जिससे थी the most watched cable program on the दिन of its premiere on the डिज़्नी चैनल.
16 Wishes introduced Ryan to new audiences ; the फिल्म प्राप्त ऊँची viewership in the वयस्कों demographic ( 18-34 ).
Soon after कि, Ryan स्ट्रक्चर in the independent theatrical film, What if..., which premiered on August 20, 2010.
Ryan भी स्ट्रक्चर in the नई Disney Channel Original movie, Radio Rebel, जहाँ वो portrays the role of tara Adams, a shy 17-year-old girl who adopts the रेडियो personality, Radio विद्रोही.
Released February 17, 2012.
रयान stars in the titular भूमिका in the डिज़्नी Channel Original श्रेणी, जेसी.
stührling tourbillon Movement ( ).
In horology, a tourbillon ( ; `` whirlwind '' ) is an addition to the यांत्रिकी of a watch escapement.
Developed around 1795 by the French-Swiss घड़ीसाज़ Abraham-Louis Breguet इससे an पहले विचार by the English chronometer मेकर जॉन अर्नाल्ड, a tourbillon aims to counter the effects of गम्भीरता by mounting the escapement and balance wheel in a rotating cage, to negate the effect of गम्भीरता जब the timepiece ( thus the escapement ) is stuck in a certain position.
Originally an attempt to improve accuracy, tourbillons हैं still included in some expensive आधुनिक घड़ियाँ as a विलक्षणता and demonstration of watchmaking virtuosity.
the यांत्रिकी is प्रायः exposed on the watch 's face to show it off.
The Windows Installer ( previously known as Microsoft Installer ) is a software component प्रयुक्त for the संस्थापना, maintenance, and removal of तन्त्र on modern Microsoft Windows systems.
The installation information, और प्रायः the files themselves, are packaged in संस्थापना packages, loosely relational databases संरचित as COM Structured Storages and commonly known as `` msi files '', इससे उनके डिफॉल्ट file extension.
Windows Installer contains significant changes from इसके predecessor, सेटअप API.
New सुविधाएँ शामिल a जीयूआई framework और स्वचालित पीढी of the uninstallation sequence.
खिड़कियाँ Installer is positioned as an वैकल्पिक to stand-alone executable installer frameworks ऐसे as older संस्करण of installshield and NSIS.
Microsoft encourages तीसरा पार्टियों to उपयोग Windows Installer as the basis लिये installation frameworks, so कि they synchronize correctly साथ other installers और keep the internal database of संस्थापित products consistent.
Important सुविधाएँ ऐसे as rollback and versioning depend on a सतत internal डेटाबेस for विश्वसनीय आपरेशन.
furthermore, Windows Installer facilitates the principle of least privilege by performing software संस्थापना by proxy लिये unprivileged users.
Four Loko is a line of alcoholic beverages, originally marketed as उर्जा drinks, बेची by phusion Projects of Chicago, इलिनोइस.
Phusion operates as Drink Four brewing कम्पनी.
चार लोको, the company 's most popular beverage, debuted in the United राज्य मार्केट in 2005.
it is अभी sold in 48 राज्य, and in Canada, The Bahamas, बोलीविया, होंडुरास, and यूरोपीय.
The नाम `` Four '' is derived from the original energy drink 's four main ingredients : दारू, कैफीन, taurine, and guarana.
चार ब्रांडेड products have महरूम the ऑब्जेक्ट of legal, ethical, and health चिंताएं सम्बन्धित to the कम्पनी allegedly marketing उन्हें to the underaged और the purported danger of combining दारू और कैफीन.
बाद the beverage was banned in several states, a उत्पाद reintroduction in दिसम्बर 2010 removed caffeine, taurine, और guarana as संघटक, and the malt beverage is no longer marketed as an energy drink.
the neck of a गिटार प्रर्दशित the नट ( in the background, coloured श्वेत ) and पहला four metal frets.
a fret is a raised तत्व on the गर्दन of a stringed instrument.
Frets usually extend across the पूरा width of the neck.
on most आधुनिक पश्चिमी fretted यंत्र, frets are मेटल स्ट्रिप्स inserted into the fingerboard.
On some ऐतिहासिक यंत्र और non-european instruments, frets are made of टुकड़े of string tied around the गर्दन.
Frets divide the गर्दन into फिक्स्ड segments at intervals related to a musical framework.
On instruments such as guitars, प्रत्येक fret represents one semitone in the standard western प्रणाली where एक octave is divided into twelve semitones.
Fret is प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a verb, meaning बस `` to दबायें bas the स्ट्रिंग पीछे a fret. ''
fretting often refers to the frets and/or उनके system of placement.
There थी खपत of alcohol दोनो दौरान और after prohibition.
the 18th amendment prohibited the production, वितरण और sale of alcoholic beverages in the United States और थी widely supported by the American पब्लिक when it went into effect in 1920.
the temperance movement था popularized the belief कि alcohol was the major cause of most personal और सोशल problems और prohibition was देखी as the समाधान to the स्वदेश 's poverty, crime, violence, और अन्य ills.
upon ratification of the amendment, the famous evangelist Billy Sunday said that `` The slums will जल्द be तभी a memory.
We will turn हमारी जेलों into कारखानों and हमारी jails into storehouses और corncribs. ''
( Compare christianity और alcohol. )
Since alcohol थी to be banned and since it थी seen as the cause of most, if not सब, crime, कुछ communities sold उनके jails.
the स्वदेश थी अत्यधिक आशावादी and the अग्रणी prohibitionist in the संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस confidently asserted that `` वहीँ is as much chance of repealing the eighteenth Amendment as there is for a hummingbird to मक्खी to the ग्रह मंगल with the Washington Monument tied to इसके tail.”
The मीटर ( meter in अमरीकी English ), ( si unit symbol : m ; SI dimension symbol : L ), is the आधारभूत unit of length in the International प्रणाली of Units ( si ).
originally intended to be एक ten-millionth of the distance from the धरती 's equator to the उत्तर Pole ( at समुद्र level ), its परिभाषा रै been periodically परिष्कृत to प्रतिबिंबित growing knowledge of metrology.
चूंकि 1983, it रै महरूम defined as `` the लंबाई of the path travelled by लाइट in vacuum during a समय interval of 1/299,792,458 of a second. ''
geologists exploring jurassic sedimentary rocks in Makhtesh Gadol, negev Desert, इसराईल
Geologists explaining the महत्व of volcanic राख परतों to students on field in Iceland
A भूवैज्ञानिक is a वैज्ञानिक जो studies the solid and द्रव matter that constitutes the धरती as well as the processes और इतिहास that रै तराशा it.
geologists usually engage in अध्ययन भूविज्ञान.
Geologists, अध्ययन more of an applied विज्ञान than a theoretical one, must दृष्टिकोण Geology using physics, chemistry और जीवविज्ञान as well as other sciences.
geologists, compared to scientists engaged in अन्य फ़ील्ड, हैं generally more उजागर to the बाहरी than रहकर in laboratories ; हालांकि some geologists prefer to perform most of उनके studies in the lab.
geologists हैं engaged in exploration for खनन companies in search of metals, oils, and अन्य Earth resources.
They हैं also in the forefront of प्राकृतिक hazards और disasters चेतावनी and mitigation, अध्ययन earthquakes, volcanic activity, tsunamis, weather storms, and the like ; their studies are used to warn the सामान्य public of the occurrence of these events.
फिलहाल, geologists हैं भी engaged in the discussion of climate बदलें, as वे पढ़ाई the इतिहास and evidence लिये इस Earth process.
Below is a व्यापक drill and tap size chart for सब drills, इम्पीरियल और metric, और taps up to 36.5 mm.
Modern वैक्यूम tubes, mostly miniature style
in electronics, a vacuum ट्यूब, electron ट्यूब ( in उत्तर अमेरिका ), thermionic valve, tube, or वाल्व is a device controlling इलेक्ट्रिक current through a vacuum in a sealed container.
The संग्राहक is often thin transparent glass in a roughly cylindrical shape.
the simplest vacuum ट्यूब, the डायोड, is essentially an incandescent light bulb with an added electrode inside.
When the bulb 's filament is heated white-hot, electrons are `` boiled '' off its surface और into the vacuum inside the bulb.
if the electrode -- called a `` plate '' or `` धनाग्र '' -- is बना अधिक positive than the hot फिलामेंट, a direct current बहती through the vacuum to the electrode ( a demonstration of the एडिसन प्रभाव ).
As the current only flows in one direction, it makes it संभावित to बदलें an alternating current applied to the फिलामेंट to सीधा current.
The introduction of a third एलेक्ट्रोड, a grid between the filament and the थाली, yields another function.
A वोल्टेज applied to the grid नियंत्रण the वर्तमान flowing from the filament to the plate.
Thus, it allows the device to be used as an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक प्रवर्धक.
Vacuum tubes are यूँ used for rectification, प्रवर्धन, switching, or similar processing or creation of electrical signals.
the विशाल majority of modern दिन tubes consist of a sealed संग्राहक साथ a vacuum अंदर, और essentially rely on thermionic उत्सर्जन of electrons from a hot filament or a कैथोड heated by the filament.
कुछ exceptions to this are dealt with in the section about gas-filled tubes below.
Vacuum tubes were critical to the विकास of electronic प्रौद्योगिकी, which drove the विस्तार और commercialization of रेडियो प्रसारण, television, रडार, sound reinforcement, ध्वनि recording and जनन, large टेलीफोन संजाल, analog and digital computers, और industrial process कंट्रोल.
Although some अनुप्रयोग had counterparts using पहले technologies such as the चिंगारी gap ट्रांसमीटर or mechanical कंप्यूटर, it थी the invention of the vacuum tube with three electrodes ( पुकारा a triode ) and इसके capability of electronic amplification that made these technologies फैली and practical.
in most अनुप्रयोग, solid-state डिवाइस such as transistors and अन्य semiconductor devices have replaced tubes.
Solid-state डिवाइस पिछला longer और are smaller, अधिक efficient, more विश्वसनीय, और सस्ता than tubes.
tubes can be नाजुक, sometimes generate significant अनावश्यक heat, and can take many seconds—many मिनट्स in critical applications—after powering on to warm to a temperature where they perform within operational सहिष्णुता.
however, tubes still find उपयोग where solid-state devices have नहीं महरूम developed, हैं impractical, or where a ट्यूब has superior performance, as साथ कुछ डिवाइस in professional ऑडियो and high-power रेडियो transmitters.
tubes are still उत्पादित for such applications.
Tubes हैं less likely than semiconductor डिवाइस to be destroyed by the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक पल्स उत्पादित by nuclear विस्फोट and geomagnetic storms produced by giant solar flares.
skittles is a ब्रांड of fruit-flavoured मिठाई, फिलहाल उत्पादित and marketed by the wm. wrigley Jr. Company, a प्रभाग of Mars, Inc.
वे have hard sugar शेल which carry the letter S.
The inside is mainly शुगर, corn syrup, and hydrogenated palm kernel आयल साथ with fruit juice, साइट्रिक acid, और natural and artificial चटपटा.
the confectionery has been बेची in a variety of फ्लेवर collections, ऐसे as Tropical और जंगली बेरी.
सर Winston लियोनार्ड spencer-churchill, ( 30 November 1874 – 24 जनवरी 1965 ) was a British politician जो थी the Prime Minister of the संयुक्त Kingdom from 1940 to 1945 और again from 1951 to 1955.
widely regarded as one of the greatest wartime leaders of the 20th century, Churchill was also an officer in the British Army, a इतिहासकार, a writer, and an कलाकार.
He is the तभी British प्रधान Minister in इतिहास to have प्राप्त the Nobel Prize in Literature, और was भी the first person to be made an मानद Citizen of the संयुक्त States.
चर्चिल थी born into an aristocratic परिवार as the पोता of the 7th ड्यूक of Marlborough.
His father, रब Randolph चर्चिल, थी a charismatic politician who served as चांसलर of the exchequer ; his mother, Jennie Jerome, was an अमरीकी socialite.
As a young फौज officer, he देखी कार्रवाई in अंग्रेजों India, the सूडान, and the Second बोअर युद्ध.
He gained fame as a युद्ध correspondent और लिखा books about उसके अभियान.
At the forefront of politics लिये fifty सालो, he आयोजित many political and cabinet positions.
Before the पहला संसार War, he served as अध्यक्ष of the Board of Trade, घर सचिव, and First Lord of the admiralty as भाग of the Asquith Liberal government.
During the युद्ध, he continued as पहला Lord of the Admiralty जबतक the disastrous Gallipoli अभियान caused his departure from government.
He तब briefly resumed क्रियाशील army सेवा on the पश्चिमी Front as commander of the 6th बटालियन of the Royal Scots Fusiliers.
He लौटे to सरकारी as Minister of munitions, सचिव of State for War, और Secretary of राज्य लिये Air.
बाद the युद्ध, चर्चिल परोसा as चांसलर of the Exchequer in the Conservative ( baldwin ) government of 1924–29, controversially returning the pound sterling in 1925 to the gold मानक at its pre-war पैरिटी, a move widely देखी as creating deflationary pressure on the uk economy.
भी controversial थी उसके opposition to increased घर rule for इण्डिया and his प्रतिरोध to the 1936 abdication of Edward viii.
Out of office और नीतियां `` in the wilderness '' during the 1930s, Churchill took the lead in warning परिचय Nazi Germany and in campaigning लिये rearmament.
On the outbreak of the दूसरी संसार War, he was again appointed First Lord of the Admiralty.
following the इस्तीफा of नेविली चेम्बरलेन on 10 May 1940, Churchill became प्रधान मंत्री.
उसके steadfast refusal to consider शिकस्त, surrender, or a compromise peace helped inspire British प्रतिरोध, especially दौरान the difficult early दिनों of the युद्ध जब ब्रिटेन stood alone among European countries in its active विपक्ष to Adolf Hitler.
चर्चिल was विशेषकर noted for उसके भाषणों और रेडियो प्रसारण, जिससे helped inspire the British people.
He led Britain as Prime मंत्री until victory over नाजी Germany had been secured.
After the Conservative Party lost the 1945 चुनाव, he became Leader of the विपक्ष to the Labour ( Attlee ) सरकारी.
After winning the 1951 election, he again became प्रधान मंत्री, before retiring in 1955.
upon his death, एलिज़ाबेथ II granted him the honour of a राज्य funeral, जिससे देखी one of the largest सभाओं of संसार statesmen in history.
Named the Greatest briton of all time in a 2002 poll, Churchill is widely regarded as being among the most influential people in अंग्रेजों history.
Ruby Gloom is an animated टेलीविज़न show based on an वस्त्र मताधिकार.
The show is उत्पादित by nelvana और began airing on October 13, 2006 in Canada on the संजाल ytv.
It stars the voices of Sarah gadon, Emily हैम्पशायर, and Peter Keleghan.
The Ford फ़ोकस is a कॉम्पैक्ट car ( C-segment in Europe ) manufactured by the Ford Motor Company चूंकि 1998.
घाट began बिक्री of the Focus to यूरोपीय in जुलाई 1998 और in North America during 1999 लिये the 2000 model year.
in यूरोपीय, South अमेरिका, North America और दक्षिण Africa, the Focus replaced the various versions of the Ford अनुरक्षण बेची in those markets.
in Asia and australasia, it replaced the घाट Laser.
As of the first हाफ of 2012, the Focus surpassed the Toyota Corolla to become the संसार 's best selling ऑटोमोबाइल nameplate.
the फ़ोकस रै been माना one of the 50 महानतम cars of the पास्ट पचास सालो by अंग्रेजों पत्रिका CAR.
An आगर थाली -- an example of a बैक्टीरियल विकास medium.
specifically, it is a streak plate ; the orange lines और dots are formed by bacterial colonies.
a growth medium or culture मीडियम is a द्रव or gel designed to support the growth of microorganisms or कोशिकाएं, or छोटी पौधे जैसे the मॉस physcomitrella patens.
There are अलग types of मीडिया for growing different types of cells.
वहीँ हैं two प्रमुख types of growth media : those प्रयुक्त for cell culture, which use विशिष्ट कोशिका types निकला इससे पौधे or animals, और microbiological संस्कृति, जिससे are used लिये growing microorganisms, such as जीवाणु or yeast.
The most आम विकास मीडिया लिये microorganisms are nutrient broths and आगर plates ; specialized मीडिया are sometimes required लिये microorganism and कोशिका संस्कृति विकास.
कुछ organisms, termed fastidious organisms, require specialized environments due to complex nutritional requirements.
Viruses, for example, are obligate intracellular परजीवी और require a growth medium containing जीना cells.
A हुनर एजेंट, or बुकिंग agent, is a व्यक्ति who finds jobs लिये अभिनेताओं, authors, film निर्देशकों, संगीतकारों, मॉडल, producers, professional athletes, लेखक and other people in various entertainment businesses.
An agent also defends, supports और promotes the ब्याज of his/her clients.
Agents can नहीं उपज their अपना shows due to विरोध of interest.
A हुनर agent must be familiar with their क्लाइंट.
An agent has to know कया kind of work the client can and can नहीं do in अनुक्रम to match them साथ विभिन्न jobs.
having an एजेंट is नहीं required, but does help the कलाकार in getting jobs.
In many मामले casting निर्देशकों, or अन्य businesses, go to talent agencies to find कलाकारों वे are looking for.
the agent is paid a प्रतिशत of the स्टार 's आय ( typically 10 % ).
एजेंटों sometimes will be referred to as `` 10 percenters. ''
There are different regulations कि govern अलग types of agents that are स्थापित by artist 's संघ and the legal क्षेत्राधिकार in जिससे the agent operates.
There are also पेशेवर organizations कि license talent एजेंसियों.
Since the decline in viewership in theaters, इससे the 1950s to 1960s, this caused a monumental shift in कैसा studios would produce films और यूँ reducing the cost of exclusive and expensive actors.
Actors and अभिनेत्रियों were working for the studios but were नहीं स्वामित्व by एक प्रमुख studio एंटिटी and so were able to कार्य on within their समय and साथ other studios.
Because of this, एजेंटों यहूद अभी seen as a necessity instead of an option.
Agents now became तीसरा parties that negotiated between studios और क्लाइंट, this बनाना their सेवाएं imperative between each party.
Since talent एजेंसियों are working साथ lucrative contracts, all talent एजेंसियों must be licensed under special sections of the California मजदूर Code, जिससे calls an agent a `` व्यक्ति or निगम who engages in the occupation of procuring, offering, होनहार, or attempting to procure नियुक्ति लिये artist or artists. ''
मंगल has two ज्ञात moons, Phobos and deimos, which हैं विचार to be captured क्षुद्रग्रह.
Both satellites were discovered in 1877 by asaph Hall and are named after the characters Phobos ( panic/fear ) and Deimos ( terror/dread ) who, in Greek mythology, accompanied उनके पिता Ares, परमेश्वर of war, into battle.
एरीस थी known as मंगल to the Romans.
It is possible कि Mars may have moons smaller than 50 - 100 मीटर and a dust ring between Phobos और Deimos may be उपस्थित लकिन none have been खोजा.
In law enforcement parlance, the term murder book refers to the case file of a murder investigation.
Typically, हत्या किताबे include crime scene छायाचित्र and sketches, autopsy and forensic reports, transcripts of investigators ' टीप और witness interviews.
The murder किताब encapsulates the complete पेपर ट्रेल of a हत्या investigation, from the time the हत्या is first reported through the arrest of a suspect.
Law enforcement एजेंसियों typically guard हत्या किताबे carefully, and it is असामान्य लिये नागरिकों to be given unfettered access to these kinds of records, विशेषकर for unsolved मामले.
A melon baller
melon गेंदें are balls of melon made using a melon baller कि varies इससे around 1 centimeter to 3 centimeters ( about 3/8 inch to 1 इंच ).
वे are generally used in fruit सलाद.
A ksa, or Knowledge, कौशल, and Abilities, is a series of narrative statements that हैं जरूरी when applying to United States संघीय government जॉब openings.
KSAs हैं used to determine, साथ साथ resumes, जो the best applicants are when several candidates qualify लिये a जॉब.
The knowledge, skills and abilities ( KSAs ) necessary for the कामयाब प्रदर्शन of a position are contained on each जॉब vacancy announcement.
in 2009 the Office of निजी Management asked संघीय agencies to रोकें requiring job आवेदकों to fill आउट the questionnaires, to be phased आउट within a साल.
ksas हैं brief और केन्द्रित essays about one 's career and educational पृष्ठभूमि that presumably qualify one to perform the कर्तव्य of the position being applied for.
A knowledge, कौशल, and abilities ( KSA ) is a concise essay about one 's talent and विशेषज्ञता and related experiences ( work, शिक्षा, स्वयंसेवी ) और accomplishments.
a series of KSA statements हैं usually required when applying लिये most संघीय government और some state और city government jobs.
KSAs are प्रयुक्त as a yardstick to assess the सामर्थ्य of a prospective applicant in terms of likely क्षमता to perform the duties of the job.
सबसे government hiring officials look for a short, कुरकुरे और साफ KSA that emphasizes results or accomplishments obtained in पिछला work.
KSA कथन are भी ज्ञात as Evaluation Factors.
Other एजेंसियों sometimes call them `` Rating Factors '', `` Quality रैंकिंग Factors '', `` ज्ञान, Abilities, skills and Other Characteristics '', or `` Job Elements ''.
the name can be just a name लकिन प्रायः it प्रभाव content और length of the निबन्ध.
प्रत्येक agency रै इसके own regulations लकिन most of the time the प्रत्येक ksa फ़ैक्टर चाहिए be 1/2 to 11⁄2 पृष्ठों long.
The below परिभाषाएं are पारिभाषित by the u.S. Office of Personnel प्रबन्धन :
ज्ञान, Skills, and Abilities ( KSAs ) - The attributes जरूरी to perform a जॉब and are generally demonstrated through qualifying सेवा, education, or training.
Knowledge - Is a body of information applied directly to the performance of a फलन.
Skill - is an observable competence to perform a learned psychomotor अधिनियम.
Ability - is competence to perform an observable बर्ताव or a behavior कि परिणाम in an observable product.
The scoring of KSA essays is based on a स्केल of from one to 100.
Job applicants must स्कोर above 70 to be माना for the position.
High स्कोर are derived through answering the KSA question as specifically as possible, providing उदाहरण from पिछला employment or training that clearly demonstrate तुम meet the योग्यता.
When applying to federal government स्थितियाँ, a Federal Resume is प्रायः जरूरी in addition to KSA कथन.
right
पूरे grains are cereal grains that contain cereal रोगाणु, भ्रूणपोष, और bran, in contrast to refined grains, which retain तभी the endosperm.
Common whole grains include:
गेहूं
Oat
जौ - Hulled और Dehulled ( not Pearl )
Maize
भूरा राइस
farro
Spelt
emmer
einkorn
Kamut
rye
Millet
quinoa
Amaranth
Triticale
teff
Sprouted दाने
buckwheat
Common पूरे अनाज products include:
Whole wheat flour
Whole गेहूं ब्रैड
पूरे गेहूं Pasta
लिपटे जई or oat groats
triticale flour
Popcorn
Teff flour
Common परिष्कृत non-whole अनाज उत्पाद include:
प्रेम सदा is the debut एल्बम of American R & B duo K-Ci & जोजो, released on June 17, 1997, by MCA रिकॉर्ड.
It was recorded at various studios in नई York and the Los Angeles area in 1996 और 1997.
It was produced by JoJo और अनेक अन्य, सहित devante Swing, जेम्स Mtume, and Jeff Redd.
The duo were originally a part of Jodeci पहले this album.
the album peaked at छठे on the US Billboard 200 and भी appeared on अंतरराष्ट्रीय charts.
the single `` All my जीवन `` charted क्रमांक एक in अनेक countries, and all चार of the एल्बम 's singles peaked above the top 25 in the US Hot R & b/hip-hop Songs और the नई जीलैंड Top 40 Singles.
Love Always was received favorably by critics, who praised the भाइयो ' गायन ability और the production.
The album has been certified three times प्लेटिनम by the रिकॉर्डिंग Industry संघ of अमेरिका ( RIAA ) and gold by Music Canada और IFPI Sweden.
as of June 1999 it था बेची 2.9 million नक़ल in the United States.
A variable-rate mortgage, adjustable-rate mortgage ( भुजा ), or tracker mortgage is a बंधक ऋण with the interest rate on the note periodically समायोजित based on an index जिससे reflects the cost to the lender of borrowing on the credit markets.
The ऋण may be offered at the lender 's मानक variable चूहाe/ base rate.
There may be a सीधा and legally-defined कड़ी to the underlying index, लकिन जहाँ the lender offers no विशिष्ट link to the underlying मार्केट or अनुक्रमणिका the रेट can be changed at the lender 's discretion.
the पद `` variable-rate mortgage '' is सबसे आम बाहर the United States, whilst in the संयुक्त राज्य, `` adjustable-rate mortgage '' is most common, and implies a बंधक regulated by the संघीय government, with caps on charges.
in many countries, समायोज्य रेट mortgages हैं the norm, and in such places, may simply be referred to as mortgages.
Among the सबसे common indices हैं the दरों on 1-year constant-maturity राजकोष ( CMT ) securities, the Cost of Funds Index ( COFI ), and the London interbank offered Rate ( LIBOR ).
A few lenders उपयोग उनके अपना लागत of निधि as an index, rather than using other indices.
This is किया to ensure a स्थिर margin for the lender, जिनकी अपना cost of funding will प्रायः be related to the index.
नतीजतन, payments made by the borrower may change over time साथ the changing interest rate ( alternatively, the पद of the ऋण may बदलें ).
इस is पृथक from the ग्रैजुएट भुगतान बंधक, जिससे offers बदलना भुगतान amounts लकिन a फिक्स्ड interest रेट.
अन्य फ़ॉर्म of mortgage loan शामिल the interest only mortgage, the fixed rate बंधक, the ऋणात्मक amortization बंधक, और the गुब्बारा भुगतान बंधक.
समायोज्य दरों transfer part of the ब्याज rate रिस्क इससे the lender to the borrower.
वे can be used where मनमौजी interest rates मेक fixed rate loans difficult to obtain.
The borrower लाभ if the ब्याज रेट falls लकिन loses if the interest rate increases.
The borrower benefits from reduced margins to the underlying cost of उधार compared to फिक्स्ड or capped rate mortgages.
the assassination of Robert फ्रांसिस `` Bobby '' कैनेडी, a United States सीनेटर और bhai of assassinated President जॉन Fitzgerald `` जोकर '' कैनेडी, took place shortly after midnight on जून 5, 1968, in लॉस एंजिल्स, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, during the अभियान ऋतु लिये the United States Presidential चुनाव, 1968.
बाद winning the कैलिफ़ोर्निया and South Dakota प्राथमिक elections लिये the Democratic nomination for अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, कैनेडी was shot as he walked through the kitchen of the Ambassador Hotel and died in the Good Samaritan हॉस्पिटल twenty-six घंटों later.
sirhan Sirhan, a 24-year-old फिलीस्तीनी / जार्डन अप्रवासी, थी convicted of Kennedy 's हत्या and is serving a life वाक्य लिये the crime.
Sirhan 's lawyers have released statements claiming evidence कि he थी framed.
The shooting was recorded on ऑडियो tape by a freelance newspaper reporter, and the aftermath was captured on फिल्मी.
कैनेडी 's देह lay in repose at St. Patrick 's गिरजाघर in नई York for two दिनों before a funeral mass was held on June 8.
His body थी interred near his brother जॉन at आर्लिंगटन National Cemetery.
His मौत prompted the protection of अध्यक्षीय candidates by the संयुक्त States रहस्य सेवा.
Hubert Humphrey went on to win the Democratic nomination लिये the presidency, but ultimately narrowly खोया the चुनाव to रिचर्ड Nixon.
as with his bhai Jack 's death, Bobby 's assassination and the circumstances surrounding it have शाखित a किस्में of conspiracy theories.
as of 2013 Kennedy remains one of only दो बैठे United States Senators to be assassinated ( the अन्य होने Huey Long ).
the आधुनिक Age of Comic Books is an informal नाम लिये the period in the इतिहास of mainstream American कॉमिक books generally considered to last from the mid-1980s until present day.
in this period, कॉमिक book वर्ण generally became darker और more psychologically complex, creators became better-known और क्रियाशील in बदलना the industry, स्वतंत्र comics flourished, और larger प्रकाशन घरों became अधिक commercialized.
An वैकल्पिक नाम for इस period is the Dark Age of Comic Books, due to the लोकप्रियता and कलाकारी influence of grim शीर्षक, such as और Watchmen.
When Harry मिले सैली... is a 1989 American romantic comedy फिल्मी written by Nora Ephron और directed by Rob Reiner.
It stars बिली Crystal as हैरी and मेग रयान as Sally.
The story फ़ॉलो the title characters from the समय वे मिलें just before sharing a cross-country drive, through twelve सालो or so of chance मुठभेड़ों in नई York City.
the फिल्मी raises the question `` can men और women ever just be मित्रों ? '' and advances अनेक विचार परिचय relationships that became household concepts, ऐसे as those of the `` '' girlfriend and the `` transitional person ''.
the origins of the film आए from Reiner 's return to single life बाद a तलाक.
an interview Ephron conducted with Reiner provided the basis for हैरी.
सैली थी based on Ephron and कुछ of her friends.
Crystal came on फलक and made उसके अपना contributions to the screenplay, बनाना Harry funnier.
ephron supplied the structure of the film with much of the dialogue आधारित on the real-life दोस्ती between Reiner and क्रिस्टल.
The soundtrack consists of standards performed by हैरी Connick, Jr., साथ a बिग बैंड और ऑर्केस्ट्रा arranged by मार्क Shaiman.
connick won उसके first Grammy Award लिये Best जैज़ पुरूष गायन प्रदर्शन.
कोलंबिया तस्वीरें released the फिल्मी using the `` मंच '' technique, which शामिल खोलने it in a few select शहरों, letting धनात्मक शब्द of मुँह generate interest, and then gradually expanding distribution over subsequent weeks.
When Harry मिले सैली... grossed a कुल of us $ 92.8 million in North America.
Ephron received a अंग्रेजों अकादमी फिल्मी Award, an Oscar नामांकन, and a Writers Guild of अमेरिका Award नामांकन for her screenplay.
The film is क्रमित 23rd on AFI 's 100 सालो... 100 Laughs list of the top कॉमेडी films in American cinema और क्रमांक 60 on Bravo 's `` 100 Funniest Movies ''.
In जल्दी 2004, the फिल्मी was adapted for the stage in a उत्पादन starring ल्यूक पेरी and Alyson हनिंगन.
200px
Hamburger हेल्पर is a लकीर of packaged food products primarily consisting of boxed pasta bundled with a packet or packets of powdered sauce or seasonings.
the सामग्री of प्रत्येक बक्सा are combined साथ browned ground बीफ, water and मिल्क to create a पूरा डिश.
the उत्पाद लकीर भी features उत्पाद with अन्य starches such as राइस or potatoes instead of पास्ता.
it is बना by सामान्य मिलों.
Although the क्लासिक boxed हैमबर्गर हेल्पर उत्पाद only सप्लाई the मंड मद and the sauce पैकेट्स, कुछ किस्में of the product include मैदान बीफ.
ये include a frozen food लकीर, which सुविधाएँ कुछ of the brand 's क्लासिक किस्में in a complete meal kit form, साथ frozen ground बीफ and frozen sauce packaged separately from the noodles in the same bag.
वहीँ is भी an `` तत्काल '' version of हैमबर्गर Helper containing dehydrated मांस, नूडल्स and seasonings in a small pouch, requiring only जल to be added.
The हैमबर्गर हेल्पर mascot is the `` Helping हाथ '', an anthropomorphic एनिमेटेड, चार fingered left-hand दस्ताने, which appears in the product 's television commercials and on the packages.
ceres as seen साथ the हबल Space Telescope.
It is the तभी dwarf planet in the asteroid belt.
प्लूटो in approximate सच्चा colour based on Hubble स्पेस Telescope ऐल्बीडो data
हउमेया साथ इसके moons, hiʻiaka and Namaka ( कलाकार 's धारणा )
Makemake ( artist 's conception )
Eris और इसके moon Dysnomia as seen साथ the हबल Space दूरदर्शी
a dwarf ग्रह is a planetary-mass ऑब्जेक्ट कि is neither a ग्रह nor a satellite.
More explicitly, the International Astronomical Union ( iau ) defines a बौना ग्रह as a celestial body in direct कक्षा of the सूर्य that is विशाल पर्याप्त for its shape to be controlled by gravitation, लकिन कि नापसंद a planet has not साफ its orbital region of अन्य वस्तुएँ.
The पद dwarf planet was adopted in 2006 as भाग of a three-way categorization of लाशें orbiting the Sun, brought परिचय by an बढ़ाएँ in discoveries of trans-Neptunian objects that rivaled Pluto in आकार, और आखिरकार precipitated by the discovery of an भी अधिक massive object, Eris.
इस classification राज्य that bodies large पर्याप्त to have साफ the neighbourhood of their कक्षा हैं defined as ग्रह, while those कि हैं not massive enough to be rounded by their own gravity हैं defined as small Solar System लाशें.
Dwarf planets come in between.
The exclusion of dwarf ग्रह इससे the रोस्टर of planets by the iau रै been both praised and criticized ; it थी said to be the `` right decision '' by Mike Brown, who खोजा और अन्य new बौना ग्रह, but has been rejected by Alan Stern, जो had coined the पद dwarf ग्रह in 1990.
The iau फिलहाल recognizes five dwarf planets in the सौर System :, Pluto,,, और.
however, तभी two of ये लाशें, Ceres और Pluto, have महरूम observed in पर्याप्त विवरण to demonstrate that they fit the परिभाषा.
eris रै महरूम accepted as a dwarf ग्रह क्युकी it is more विशाल than प्लूटो.
The IAU subsequently decided that unnamed trans-Neptunian वस्तुएँ साथ an निरपेक्ष magnitude brighter than +1 ( and hence a diameter of ≥838 km assuming a ज्यामितीय albedo of ≤1 ) are to be named अंतर्गत the assumption that they are dwarf ग्रह.
The only दो such वस्तुएँ ज्ञात at the time, माकेमाके and हउमेया, गई through this नामकरण कार्यविधि and were घोषित to be बौना planets.
it is suspected that another hundred or so ज्ञात objects in the Solar प्रणाली are बौना ग्रह.
Estimates are that up to 200 dwarf planets may be found जब the entire प्रदेश known as the Kuiper belt is explored, और कि the number may exceed 10,000 जब वस्तुएँ scattered बाहर the Kuiper belt are माना.
Individual खगोलशास्त्रियों recognize अनेक of these, and in August 2011 माइक Brown published a list of 390 candidate objects, ranging इससे `` nearly निश्चित '' to `` possible '' बौना ग्रह. '
Brown identifies nine known वस्तुएँ – the पाँच स्वीकृत by the IAU plus,,, and – as `` virtually निश्चित '', साथ another दो dozen highly likely, and वहीँ हैं संभवतः a सौ or so such objects in कुल.
the वर्गीकरण of bodies in अन्य planetary systems साथ the characteristics of बौना planets has not been addressed.
a debit कार्ड ( भी known as a बैंको card or check card ) is a plastic payment कार्ड कि provides the cardholder इलेक्ट्रॉनिक अभिगम to उसके or her bank account ( s ) at a financial संस्था.
कुछ ताश have a stored value with जिससे a भुगतान is made, while सबसे रिले a संदेश to the cardholder 's bank to withdraw निधि from a payee 's designated bank खाता.
the कार्ड, where accepted, can be used instead of नकदी जब making purchases.
in some cases, the primary account number is आबंटित exclusively लिये use on the अंतरजाल और there is no physical card.
In अनेक countries, the उपयोग of debit ताश रै become so widespread कि उनके volume रै overtaken or entirely replaced cheques और, in कुछ उदाहरण, cash transactions.
The development of debit cards, नापसंद credit cards और charge cards, has generally been country specific resulting in a number of different systems around the world, जिससे were often असंगत.
Since the mid-2000s, a number of पहलों have allowed debit cards जारी in one country to be used in other countries और अनुमत उनके use for internet and फोन purchases.
Unlike credit और charge ताश, payments using a डेबिट card हैं तत्काल transferred from the cardholder 's designated बैंको account, बजाय of them paying the धन वापस at a बाद date.
डेबिट ताश प्रायः also allow for instant withdrawal of cash, acting as the एटीएम कार्ड लिये withdrawing नकदी.
व्यापारियों may also offer cashback facilities to ग्राहक, where a ग्राहक can withdraw cash साथ साथ their purchase.
Francois henri `` Jack '' LaLanne ( सितंबर 26, 1914 - January 23, 2011 ) was an अमरीकी फ़िटनेस, कसरत, और nutritional विशेषज्ञ and motivational speaker जो is sometimes called `` the godfather of फ़िटनेस '' और the `` पहला फ़िटनेस superhero. ''
He वर्णित खुद as होने a `` sugarholic '' and a `` जंक food junkie '' जबतक he was 15.
He also था behavioral समस्याएं, but `` turned उसके जीवन around '' after listening to a पब्लिक लेक्चर by पॉल Bragg, a well-known nutrition speaker.
दौरान his career, he आए to मानना कि the country 's overall health depended on the health of इसके population, लिखने that `` physical culture और nutrition — is the मोक्ष of अमेरिका. ''
Decades पहले health और fitness began being promoted by हस्तियाँ जैसे Jane फोंडा and रिचर्ड Simmons, LaLanne was already widely recognized for publicly preaching the health benefits of regular exercise और a good diet.
he प्रकाशित numerous books on fitness and hosted a fitness television दिखाएँ between 1953 और 1985.
As जल्दी as 1936, at आयु 21, he खोली एक of the स्वदेश 's first फ़िटनेस gyms in ओकलैंड, California, जिससे became a prototype लिये dozens of similar gyms using उसके name.
एक of उसके 1950s टेलीविज़न exercise programs थी aimed toward महिलाओं, whom he also प्रोत्साहित to join उसके health clubs.
he invented a number of exercise machines, सहित leg-extension and pulley devices.
Besides producing his अपना श्रेणी of videos, he coached the बुजुर्ग and निष्क्रिय नहीं to forgo exercise, believing it would enable them to enhance their strength.
lalanne also gained recognition for his success as a bodybuilder, as well as लिये his prodigious feats of strength.
Arnold श्वार्ज़नेगर एकबार stated, `` That Jack LaLanne 's an एनिमल !, '' after LaLanne, at 54, beat a 21-year-old Schwarzenegger `` badly '' in an informal contest.
On the अवसर of lalanne 's death, श्वार्ज़नेगर credited LaLanne लिये being `` an apostle लिये fitness '' by प्रेरणादायी `` अरबों all over the world to live healthier lives, '' and, as governor of California, था पहले placed उसे on his राज्यपाल 's Council on शारीरिक फ़िटनेस.
Steve रीव्स credited lalanne as his प्रेरणा to build his muscular physique while keeping a slim waist.
he थी inducted to the California Hall of कीर्ति और has a star on the हॉलीवुड Walk of कीर्ति.
Air शक्तियां of सबसे of the countries use प्रणाली similar to सेना.
However, the RAF and the एयर forces of अनेक Commonwealth countries, or those formerly under a अंग्रेजों influence, use a अलग set of ranks loosely आधारित on नवल equivalents ; Lieutenant, कमांडर, कप्तान and Commodore are prefixed लिये एयर force उपयोग with Flight, Wing, Group and एयर, respectively ( the first three being the units that they used to कमांड ).
पेनेलोपे क्रूज़ sánchez ( ; born अप्रैल 28, 1974 ) is a स्पेनी actress.
हस्ताक्षरित by an agent at age 15, वो बना her एक्टिंग डेब्यू at 16 on television and her feature film डेब्यू the following year in Jamón, jamón ( 1992 ), to नाजुक acclaim.
Her subsequent roles in the 1990s and 2000s included Open Your Eyes ( 1997 ), The hi-lo Country ( 1999 ), The Girl of Your सपनो ( 2000 ) और Woman on शीर्ष ( 2000 ).
क्रूज़ हासिल recognition for उसके lead roles in the 2001 films वैनिला Sky and Blow.
She रै चूंकि built a कामयाब करियर, appearing in films इससे a wide दायरा of genres, including the comedy Waking up in रेनो ( 2002 ), the thriller Gothika ( 2003 ), the क्रिसमस फिल्म नोएल ( 2004 ), and the action adventure सहारा ( 2005 ).
She रै received नाजुक acclaim for her भूमिकाएँ in Volver ( 2006 ) और नौ ( 2009 ) receiving सुनहरी Globe and Academy Award nominations for each.
She जीती the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress in 2008 लिये विक्की क्रिस्टीना Barcelona.
वो थी the पहला स्पेनी अभिनेत्री in history to receive an Academy पुरस्कार and the पहला स्पेनी अभिनेत्री to receive a star at the हॉलीवुड Walk of कीर्ति.
क्रूज़ रै modeled for companies ऐसे as Mango, Ralph Lauren and l'oréal.
पेनेलोपे and her younger sister mónica Cruz have designed वस्तुएं for Mango.
वो has दान both her समय और money to charities.
Cruz has volunteered in Uganda and इण्डिया, जहाँ she spent one सप्ताह working लिये माँ Teresa ; she दान her salary इससे ' to help fund the late नन 's मिशन.
a मोम मूर्तिकला of क्रूज़ will be placed in a premier spot in the Grevin Wax संग्रहालय in पेरिस.
File Explorer, previously known as Windows Explorer, is a संचिका मैनेजर अनुप्रयोग and भी a navigation tool that is included with रिलीज of the Microsoft खिड़कियाँ operating system from Windows 95 onwards.
it provides a आलेखीय उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस for accessing the file प्रणालियों.
it is also the component of the ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली that presents अनेक उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस items on the मॉनिटर ऐसे as the taskbar and desktop.
Controlling the computer is संभावित without Windows एक्सप्लोरर running ( for उदाहरण, the संचिका | Run कमांड in Task मैनेजर on NT-derived versions of खिड़कियाँ will फलन बगैर it, as will कमांड typed in a command संकेत खिड़की ).
Located in the C : \खिड़कीs निर्देशिका, it is sometimes referred to as the खिड़कियाँ शेल, explorer.exe, or simply “Explorer”.
The Care Bears हैं characters created by American Greetings in 1981 for use on ग्रीटिंग ताश.
the असली कलाकृति for the ताश थी painted by artist Elena Kucharik.
In 1983, kenner turned the Care Bears into plush teddy bears.
The परवाह bears appeared in their own TV specials called The Care Bears in the जमीन Without जज्बात ( 1983 ) and the परवाह Bears बैटल the Freeze यंत्र ( 1984 ).
They also had their own television series इससे 1985 to 1988, in जोड to तीन विशेषता films : the Care Bears फिल्म ( 1985 ), Care Bears Movie II : A New Generation ( 1986 ), और The Care Bears एडवेंचर in Wonderland ( 1987 ).
Each परवाह Bear आता in a अलग रंग and has a specialized तमगा on its belly that represents इसके ड्यूटी and व्यक्तित्व.
इस insignia थी ज्ञात as their `` tummy प्रतीक. ''
however, the फिल्म Care Bears : Oopsy करता it ! renamed them `` belly badges ''.
Adding to the परवाह Bear परिवार are the `` Care Bear Cousins '', which विशेषता a शेर, rabbit, पेंगुइन, raccoon, और other such animals निर्मित in the same स्टाइल as the teddy bears.
In 2002, the bears were reintroduced with new toys.
Made by Play-Along खिलौने, the new खिलौने offered features ऐसे as illuminated bellies upon touch, aerobic bears, और glow-in-the-dark bears.
As part of this वापसी, the bears have appeared in दो computer-animated movies : Care Bears : Journey to joke-a-lot ( 2004 ) and The Care Bears ' Big Wish Movie ( 2005 ).
In 2007, the franchise celebrated its 25th anniversary ; another relaunch took place, as well as the release of Care Bears : Oopsy Does It !.
In mid-2011, ag announced a revival TV एनिमेटेड श्रेणी titled `` परवाह bears : Welcome to care-a-lot ``.
the प्रीमियर of the series utilizes `` 30 years of देखभाल ''.
It premiered on The Hub on June 2, 2012.
As of 2013, परवाह Bears merchandise is still होने marketed.
दौरान 2008 and 2009, Canada 's Cookie Jar Group and फ़्रांस 's moonscoop Group attempted to acquire the मताधिकार from AGC, with no apparent success.
Interstate 70 ( I-70 ) is an Interstate Highway in the United States कि रनों from Interstate 15 near कोव Fort, Utah, to a Park और Ride निकट बाल्टीमोर, Maryland.
It was the पहला Interstate Highway project in the संयुक्त राज्य.
i-70 approximately traces the path of U.S. Route 40 ( और भी the old National Road ) ईस्ट of the रॉकी kyu.
West of the Rockies, the route of i-70 was निकला इससे अनेक sources.
I-70 is the पांचवां longest अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग, after i-90, I-80, I-40, and I-10.
The निर्माण of i-70 in कोलोराडो and Utah is माना an engineering marvel as the रूट गुजरता through the Eisenhower Tunnel, Glenwood canyon, और the सैन राफेल swell.
The आइज़नहावर Tunnel is the highest point साथ the Interstate राजमार्ग प्रणाली with an उन्नयन of.
The sections of the अंतरराज्यीय in Missouri and Kansas have laid claim to be the first interstate in the संयुक्त States.
हालांकि disputed, the Federal राजमार्ग Administration रै claimed the खण्ड of I-70 through glenwood canyon, completed in 1992, थी the last टुकड़ा of the अंतरराज्यीय Highway system, as originally planned, to खोलें to ट्रैफ़िक.
Photo of 1999 कुल eclipse
As seen इससे the Earth, a solar ग्रहण occurs when the चंद्रमा passes between the सूर्य and Earth, and the Moon fully or partially blocks ( `` occults `` ) the Sun.
इस can happen तभी at नई चंद्रमा, जब the सूर्य और the Moon हैं in conjunction as seen from Earth in an संरेखण referred to as syzygy.
In a total ग्रहण, the disk of the Sun is fully obscured by the चंद्रमा.
In partial and annular eclipses only भाग of the सूर्य is obscured.
If the चंद्रमा were in a perfectly गोलाकार orbit, a little closer to the Earth, and in the same orbital plane, वहीँ होता be total solar eclipses every single माह.
However, the चंद्रमा 's कक्षा is inclined ( tilted ) at अधिक than 5 degrees to Earth 's कक्षा around the Sun ( see ecliptic ) so इसके shadow at नई चंद्रमा usually चूकें Earth.
धरती 's orbit is called the ecliptic प्लेन as the Moon 's orbit must क्रॉस इस plane in order for an ग्रहण ( दोनो सौर as खूब as lunar ) to occur.
In जोड, the Moon 's actual कक्षा is elliptical, often taking it far enough away from Earth that इसके apparent आकार is not विशाल पर्याप्त to block the Sun totally.
The orbital planes क्रॉस प्रत्येक year at a line of nodes resulting in at तनिक दो, and up to five, solar eclipses occurring प्रत्येक year ; no अधिक than two of which can be कुल eclipses.
however, total सौर eclipses are विरल at कोई particular location because totality exists only along a narrow पाथ on Earth 's surface traced by the चंद्रमा 's shadow or umbra.
an ग्रहण is a natural phenomenon.
nevertheless, in some प्राचीन और modern संस्कृतियों, सौर eclipses have been attributed to अलौकिक causes or regarded as ख़राब शकुनों.
A total solar eclipse can be frightening to people जो हैं unaware of इसके astronomical explanation, as the Sun seems to गायब during the day and the sky darkens in a पदार्थ of मिनट्स.
क्युकी it is खतरनाक to dekh directly at the Sun, observers चाहिए use special eye protection or अप्रत्यक्ष viewing techniques when viewing a partial ग्रहण, or the partial phases of a total eclipse.
it is safe to view the कुल phase of a total solar eclipse साथ the unaided eye and बगैर सुरक्षा, however.
लोगों referred to as eclipse chasers or umbraphiles होगा सफर to remote locations to observe or गवाह predicted सेंट्रल solar eclipses.
a political party ( इससे, genitive partis, `` part '', `` portion '' ) is a political organization कि typically seeks to influence, or entirely control, government नीति, usually by nominating candidates with लकीर political दृश्य and trying to seat उन्हें in political office.
पार्टियों participate in electoral अभियान और शैक्षणिक outreach or विरोध actions.
पार्टियों often espouse an ideology or vision, expressed in a पार्टी program, bolstered by a लिखा platform with specific लक्ष्य, forming a गठबन्धन among disparate interests.
The आम is a fleshy स्टोन फल belonging to the genus mangifera, consisting of numerous तीव्र fruiting trees in the flowering plant family Anacardiaceae.
the mango is native to South Asia, इससे जहाँ it has महरूम वितरित worldwide to become एक of the सबसे cultivated fruits in the tropics.
While other Mangifera प्रजाति ( e.g. horse mango, M. foetida ) हैं also grown on a अधिक localized basis, mangifera इंडिका – the 'common आम ' or 'इण्डियाn mango ' – is the तभी mango tree commonly cultivated in अनेक tropical और subtropical regions.
It is the national fruit of India, Pakistan और फिलीपीन.
In several संस्कृतियों, its fruit और पत्ते हैं ritually used as floral decorations at विवाह, public जश्न और धार्मिक ceremonies.
गिल arnette Byrd, < ref name > एचटीटीपी : //www.pro-football-reference.com/players/B/ByrdGi00.htm ( born फ़रवरी 20, 1961 in सैन फ्रांसिस्को, California ) is a former professional American football player.
He थी a two time Pro Bowl cornerback in 1991 और 1992 लिये the San Diego Chargers after graduating इससे सैन Jose राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों.
Byrd was inducted into the chargers हॉल of Fame in 1998.
He थी an all-city running वापस and defensive वापस at Lowell High स्कूल ( सैन Francisco ), helping to सीसे the Cardinals to the city चैंपियनशिप in उसके वरिष्ठ ऋतु of 1978.
संसार map showing the Tropic of Cancer
the Tropic of Cancer, also referred to as the Northern tropic, is the circle of अक्षांश on the Earth that marks the सबसे northerly position at which the Sun may appear directly overhead at इसके zenith.
इस इवेंट occurs once per year, at the time of the जून solstice, when the Northern Hemisphere is tilted toward the Sun to its अधिकतम extent.
it currently ( साल 2013 ) झूठ at 23° 26′ 15.143′′ north of the equator.
इसके दक्षिणी गोलार्ध बंटवारा, अंकन the most southerly position at which the Sun may appear directly overhead, is the Tropic of मकर.
ये ऊष्णकटिबन्ध are two of the five major उपाधि measures or प्रमुख circles of अक्षांश कि चिह्नित maps of the धरती, besides the Arctic and Antarctic वृत्त और the equator.
The positions of these circles of latitude ( other than the Equator ) are dictated by the tilt of the Earth 's अक्ष of rotation relative to the plane of इसके orbit.
dvd-video is a consumer वीडियो format used to store digital video on DVD discs, and is फिलहाल the dominant consumer video format in एशिया, North America, Europe, and Australia.
Discs using the dvd-video specification require a DVD ड्राइव और an H.262/MPEG-2 भाग 2 decoder ( e.g., a dvd player, or a computer dvd drive with a software DVD player ).
वाणिज्यिक DVD फिल्मों हैं एनकोडेड using a combination of H.262/MPEG-2 भाग 2 compressed video and audio of varying formats ( often multi-channel स्वरुप as described below ).
Typically, the data rate for DVD movies ranges from 3 Mbit/s to 9.5 Mbit/s, और the bit rate is प्रायः adaptive.
it थी पहला उपलब्धियाँ लिये retail around 1997.
The DVD-Video specification थी created by dvd Forum and can be obtained इससे DVD Format/Logo Licensing Corporation for a शुल्क of $ 5,000.
The specification is not सरेआम available, because every subscriber must sign a non-disclosure agreement.
Certain information in the dvd किताब is proprietary and confidential.
In कम्प्यूटिंग and specifically Internet, a leech is one who benefits, usually deliberately, from अन्य ' सूचना or प्रयत्न but करता not offer anything in वापसी, or makes तभी टोकन offerings in an attempt to avoid being पुकारा a leech.
In economics, this type of बर्ताव is called `` free riding '' और is associated with the free सवार प्रॉब्लम.
depending on context, leeching करता नहीं necessarily refer to illegal उपयोग of कंप्यूटर संसाधन, लकिन प्रायः instead to लालची उपयोग according to etiquette : to wit, using too much of कया is freely given without contributing a उचित राशि back to the जातियाँ that provides it.
the name गर्भाशयी from the leech, an animal कि झंझट रक्त and then tries to छोड़ unnoticed.
Other शर्तें हैं used, such as `` freeloader '', but जोंक is the most common.
the पूरा eagle logo, used in विभिन्न संस्करण इससे 1970 to 1993.
the United States Postal सेवा ( usps ), भी known as the पोस्ट दफ्तर and U.S. Mail, is an स्वतंत्र agency of the संयुक्त States federal सरकारी responsible for providing डाक service in the United राज्य.
it is one of the few सरकारी agencies explicitly authorized by the United राज्य संविधान.
The usps traces its जड़ें to 1775 during the Second Continental Congress, जहाँ Benjamin फ्रैंकलिन was appointed the first postmaster general.
The cabinet-level पोस्ट दफ्तर Department was निर्मित in 1792 इससे Franklin 's operation and transformed into इसके वर्तमान form in 1971 under the Postal Reorganization अधिनियम.
the usps employs over 574,000 मजदूर and operates over 260,000 vehicles.
The USPS is the ऑपरेटर of the largest गाडी बेड़े in the संसार.
The usps is legally obligated to serve all अमेरिकी, regardless of geography, at वर्दी दाम and quality.
the usps has exclusive अभिगम to letter boxes चिह्नित `` U.S. Mail '' और personal letterboxes in the United States, लकिन स्टिल competes against निजी package delivery services, ऐसे as यूपीएस और FedEx.
the USPS has not सीधे प्राप्त taxpayer-dollars चूंकि the early 1980s with the minor एक्सेप्शन of subsidies for costs संबद्ध with the disabled and विदेशी मतदाता.
चूंकि the 2006 all-time peak मेल volume, बाद which कॉंग्रेस passed the Postal जवाबदेही and enhancement Act ``, ( which mandated $ 5.5 अरब प्रति साल to be paid into an खाता to pre-fund retiree health-care, 75 years into the भविष्य, a requirement अद्वितीय among organizations and व्यवसायों in the u.S. ), आय dropped sharply due to recession-influenced घटती mail volume, prompting the postal service to look to अन्य sources of आय while cutting लागत to reduce इसके budget deficit.
वॉशिंगटन, D.C. has महरूम the capital of the United राज्य since 1800.
Eight other शहरों have served as the meeting प्लेस for Congress and हैं therefore माना to have once been the capital of the United राज्य.
in addition, each of the 50 U.S. राज्य और the five principal territories of the United States maintains इसके own capital.
Princess cut डायमंड set in a रिंग
The राजकुमारी cut is the second सबसे लोकप्रिय cut shape लिये diamonds, next to a round शानदार.
The face-up shape of the राजकुमारी cut is वर्गाकार or rectangular और the profile or side-on shape is समान to कि of an उलट pyramid with चार beveled पहलू.
the princess cut is a अपेक्षाकृत new diamond काटें, having महरूम created in the 1960s.
It has gained in लोकप्रियता in recent years as a अधिक distinctive वैकल्पिक to the अधिक popular गोलाकार brilliant cut, in which the top of diamond, called the crown, is काटें साथ a round face-up आकार और the bottom, called the pavilion, is shaped similar to a कोन.
a राजकुमारी cut साथ the वही width as the व्यास of a round brilliant होगा weigh more as it has four किनारे which होता otherwise have महरूम काटें off and rounded to रूप a गोलाकार brilliant.
The राजकुमारी काटें is sometimes referred to as a square modified शानदार.
However, while displaying the same high उपाधि of brilliance, its faceting style is अद्वितीय and completely different from that of a गोलाकार शानदार.
The राजकुमारी काटें had its origins in the early `` French '' cut, having a step-modified `` Double-French '' or `` क्रॉस '' cut क्राउन और a series of अद्वितीय, chevron-shaped facets in the pavilion जिससे combine to दे a पृथक cross-shaped reflection when the stone is viewed directly through the तालिका.
Effectively, the Princess cut combines the high उपाधि of light वापसी of a round brilliant cut with a distinctive वर्गाकार or आयताकार आकार.
The वर्गाकार princess काटें diamond is usually थोड़ा cheaper than round शानदार cut diamonds of the same कैरेट weight because it retains परिचय 80 % of the rough डायमंड, as opposed to the round शानदार जिससे retains only परिचय 50 % of the अशिष्ट.
The क्षमता to retain more crystal वज़न makes this shape popular amongst डायमंड cutters.
Accredited Gem appraisers ( आगा ) और American Gem Society Laboratory ( AGSL ) और यूरोपीय Gem Laboratories-USA ( EGL-USA ) हैं currently the only labs कि grade the Princess cut for काटें.
वहीँ is no universal definition of what measurements मेक an ideal राजकुमारी काटें diamond और many डायमंड निर्माताओं market ideal ईंट with differing facet patterns और angles as `` ideal cut ''.
In contrast to the AGSL, AGA, और EGL-USA the gemological संस्थान of America ( GIA ) रै stated that वहीँ is not enough industry consensus or empirical data to specify काटें ग्रेडिंग standards for Princess काटें diamonds और to do so is at the risk of consumers who may be deceived by diamonds accompanied by निर्गुण Ideal or Excellent काटें ग्रेड.
The नाम `` Princess Cut '' was originally used in कनेक्शन साथ another diamond काटें, otherwise ज्ञात as the `` Profile '' cut, designed by Arpad nagy, a London cutter, in 1961.
The same name was बाद used और made popular by Ygal Perlman, betzalel Ambar, and इसराईल Itzkowitz in Israel in 1979.
a similar cut with तभी 49 facets, as opposed to the असली 58 facets of the princess काटें, was later ब्रांडेड the `` Quadrillion '' and initially वितरित by ambar ईंट in Los Angeles.
तीन years of ऑप्टिकल research yielded a square stone with faceting similar to that of a गोलाकार brilliant काटें डायमंड.
A Comparison
The क्रमांक of chevrons can affect the overall आउटलुक of a princess cut diamond.
This can usually be संकल्पित by the wire आरेख कि is plotted in डायमंड grading रिपोर्ट्स.
by adding अधिक chevrons on the मण्डप side of the डायमंड, the individual facets of the diamond will अभी be broken bas into छोटी facets.
as a परिणाम, it can दे a राजकुमारी cut diamond a `` कुचल ice '' look.
वाइस versa, जब a princess cut diamond रै lesser chevrons, it tends to give the diamond a चंकी outlook due to broader facets.
The domestic श्वान ( Canis lupus familiaris ) is a subspecies of the gray wolf ( Canis lupus ), a सदस्य of the कैनिडाए family of the mammalian order carnivora.
The term `` domestic dog '' is generally प्रयुक्त for both domesticated and feral varieties.
the श्वान has been the पहला animal to be domesticated और has महरूम the most widely रखा working, hunting, and पालतु animal in इंसान history.
The word `` श्वान '' may भी mean the male of a canine प्रजाति, as opposed to the शब्द `` bitch '' लिये the female of the प्रजाति.
mtdna evidence shows an विकासवादी split between the modern श्वान 's lineage and the modern भेड़िया 's lineage around 100,000 सालो ago लकिन,, the oldest fossil नमूनों genetically linked to the modern dog 's lineage तिथि to लगभग 33,000-36,000 years पहले.
Dogs ' मान to early human hunter-gatherers led to उन्हें quickly becoming ubiquitous across world cultures.
कुत्तो perform अनेक roles for लोगों, such as hunting, herding, pulling loads, protection, assisting police and सैन्य, companionship, and, more recently, aiding handicapped individuals.
इस प्रभाव on human society has given them the nickname `` Man 's Best Friend '' in the Western संसार.
In some संस्कृतियों, dogs हैं also a सोर्स of मांस.
in 2001, वहीँ were estimated to be 400 लाख dogs in the world.
सबसे breeds of कुत्तो are at most a few hundred years बूढ़ा, having been artificially selected for particular morphologies and behaviors by people for विशिष्ट functional roles.
Through this चयनात्मक breeding, the dog रै विकसित into hundreds of varied breeds, and shows more behavioral और morphological विभिन्नता than कोई अन्य land mammal.
लिये example, ऊँचाई measured to the withers सीमाएँ from in the Chihuahua to परिचय in the Irish Wolfhound ; रंग varies from श्वेत through grays ( usually called `` ब्लू '' ) to black, और भूरा from light ( tan ) to dark ( `` red '' or `` चॉकलेट '' ) in a wide विभिन्नता of पैटर्न ; coats can be short or long, coarse-haired to wool-like, सीधा, curly, or चिकना.
it is common for most breeds to shed इस कोट.
Diagram of a हस्तांतरण इलेक्ट्रॉन सूक्ष्मदर्शी
A 1973 Siemens electron सूक्ष्मदर्शी, Musée देस Arts et métiers, पेरिस
An इलेक्ट्रॉन सूक्ष्मदर्शी ( EM ) is a type of microscope that uses an इलेक्ट्रॉन beam to illuminate a specimen और produce a magnified चित्र.
An EM has greater resolving power than a लाइट सूक्ष्मदर्शी और can reveal the ढांचा of smaller objects because electrons have wavelengths about 100,000 times shorter than visible light photons.
They can achieve better than 50 pm resolution और magnifications of up to about 10,000,000x whereas ordinary, non-confocal light microscopes are limited by diffraction to परिचय 200 nm resolution and useful magnifications नीचे 2000x.
The इलेक्ट्रॉन सूक्ष्मदर्शी uses electrostatic और electromagnetic lenses to कंट्रोल the इलेक्ट्रॉन beam and फ़ोकस it to रूप an image.
ये इलेक्ट्रॉन optical lenses are analogous to the glass lenses of a light ऑप्टिकल सूक्ष्मदर्शी.
इलेक्ट्रॉन microscopes हैं used to investigate the ultrastructure of a चौड़ी range of biological and अकार्बनिक specimens including microorganisms, cells, large अणुओं, biopsy नमूने, धातुओं, and crystals.
industrially, the इलेक्ट्रॉन microscope is often प्रयुक्त for विशेषता control and विफलता analysis.
Modern इलेक्ट्रॉन microscopes उपज electron micrographs, using specialized digital cameras or frame grabbers to capture the चित्र.
popeyes louisiana Kitchen is a कड़ी of fried मुर्गा fast food रेस्तरां संस्थापित in 1972 in New Orleans, Louisiana.
प्रायः referred to as popeyes and sometimes as Popeyes Chicken & बिस्कुट or popeyes Chicken & Seafood, It was acquired by sandy स्रोतों, जॉर्जिया -based AFC Enterprises, originally अमेरिका 's पसंदीदा Chicken Company, in 1993.
According to a कम्पनी दबायें रिलीज दिनाँक जून 29, 2007, popeyes is the second-largest `` quick-service मुर्गा restaurant समूह, measured by number of units '', with अधिक than 1,800 restaurants in more than 40 states and the ज़िला of Columbia, और over 22 देशों worldwide सहित तुर्कों, Northern Cyprus, Bahrain, China, Hong Kong, Iraq, इंडोनेशिया, जॉर्डन, Kuwait, संयुक्त अरब Emirates, जापानी, मलेशिया, Saudi अरब, South Korea, Singapore, कनाडा, Jamaica, गुयाना, Suriname, Mexico, Trinidad, Puerto Rico, Honduras, वियतनाम, Panama, Peru, and कोस्टा Rica.
About thirty locations हैं company-owned, the rest franchised.
The लेग press is a weight training कसरत in which the व्यक्तिगत pushes a weight or resistance away from them using उनके टाँगे.
The पद leg press also refers to the apparatus used to perform इस exercise.
The लेग दबायें can be प्रयुक्त to evaluate an खिलाड़ी 's overall lower body शक्ति ( इससे knee joint to hip ).
using the diagonal sled-type लेग दबायें machine.
वहीँ are दो प्रमुख types of leg press:
The diagonal or vertical 'sled ' type leg press.
Weight disks ( प्लेटों ) are संलग्न सीधे to the sled, which is आरोहित on rails.
The उपयोक्ता sits below the sled and pushes it upward साथ their फीट.
ये machines normally include समायोज्य सुरक्षा brackets that prevent the user इससे होने trapped अंतर्गत the वज़न.
The 'cable ' प्रकार leg दबायें, or 'seated leg दबायें ', commonly found on multigyms.
The user sits कतरा and pushes आगे साथ their feet onto a plate कि is संलग्न to the वज़न स्टेक by अर्थात् of a long steel cable.
Wendy Williams शिकारी ( born वेन्डी Joan Williams ; जुलाई 18, 1964 ) is an American media व्यक्तित्व, अभिनेत्री और author.
वो hosts a syndicated television talk दिखाएँ, The Wendy विलियम्स Show.
Prior to टेलीविज़न, विलियम्स थी a `` शॉक jockette `` on several radio shows.
विलियम्स has gained सुर्खी लिये उसके on-air spats with celebrities.
She was the विषय of the 2006 VH1 वास्तविकता TV series called the Wendy Williams Experience जिससे broadcast कार्यक्रम surrounding उसके radio show.
She has लिखा an autobiography और several other किताबे, and has created a product लकीर पुकारा Adorn by वेन्डी विलियम्स.
Patrick Henry `` Treason '' वाक पहले the हाउस of Burgesses in an 1851 painting by पीटर F. Rothermel
`` Give me liberty, or give me death ! '' is a quotation attributed to पैट्रिक Henry from a वाक he made to the वर्जिनिया Convention.
On that दिन, at st. जॉन 's Church in Richmond, Virginia, और is credited with having swung the संतुलन in convincing the वर्जिनिया हाउस of Burgesses to pass a resolution delivering the वर्जिनिया troops to the क्रांतिकारी युद्ध.
among the delegates to the convention यहूद future us राष्ट्रपतियों थामस Jefferson and George वॉशिंगटन.
न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड and Labrador (, locally ) is the easternmost प्रांत of Canada.
Situated in the country 's अटलांटिक प्रदेश, it incorporates the द्वीप of Newfoundland और मेनलैंड Labrador to the उत्तरपश्चिम, with a combined area of.
In 2011, the province 's जनसांख्यिकी was 514,536.
Approximately 92 प्रतिशत of the province 's जनसांख्यिकी जीवनदान on the द्वीप of Newfoundland ( including its संबद्ध smaller islands ), of which अधिक than half live on the avalon Peninsula.
The province is Canada 's सबसे linguistically homogenous, साथ 97.6 % of residents reporting अंग्रेज़ी ( Newfoundland अंग्रेज़ी ) as उनके mother जीभ in the 2006 census ;.
Historically, Newfoundland was भी घर to अद्वितीय किस्में of फ्रेंच, और Irish, as well as the now-extinct beothuk language.
in labrador, local dialects of innu-aimun और Inuktitut are भी बोला.
Newfoundland and labrador 's capital and largest city, st. John 's, is Canada 's 20th-largest Census महानगर क्षेत्रफल, और is home to almost 40 percent of the प्रांत 's जनसांख्यिकी.
St. John 's is the seat of government, घर to the House of Assembly of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और labrador and the highest court in the क्षेत्राधिकार, the न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड and Labrador Court of Appeal.
A former colony and डोमिनियन of the संयुक्त Kingdom, न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड and Labrador became the tenth प्रांत to डालें the कनाडाई कनफेडरेशन on कूच 31, 1949, as Newfoundland.
on दिसम्बर 6, 2001, an amendment was बना to the Constitution of कनाडा to बदलें the province 's आधिकारिक name to न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड and Labrador.
In day-to-day conversation, however, canadians generally still refer to the प्रांत itself as न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड and to the region on the कनाडाई mainland as labrador.
थियोडोर `` T.R. ''
Roosevelt, Jr. ( ; अक्तूबर 27, 1858—January 6, 1919 ) थी the 26th President of the United States ( 1901–1909 ).
He is noted लिये उसके exuberant personality, range of interests and उपलब्धियाँ, और his leadership of the Progressive Movement, as खूब as his `` cowboy `` persona and robust मर्दानगी.
he थी a leader of the Republican Party और संस्थापक of the first अवतार of the short-lived Progressive ( `` सांड मूस '' ) पार्टी of 1912.
पहले बनने President, he held कार्यालयों at the नगर, state, and संघीय levels.
Roosevelt 's achievements as a naturalist, एक्सप्लोरर, शिकारी, author, और soldier are as much a part of his fame as कोई office he आयोजित as a राजनेता.
Roosevelt was 42 years बूढ़ा जब sworn in as President of the United States in 1901, making him the youngest अध्यक्ष कभी ; he beat out the youngest निर्वाचित president, John F. कैनेडी, by तभी एक year.
Roosevelt was also the पहला of only three sitting presidents to have won the Nobel सलाम पुरस्कार.
The Teddy भालू is नामित बाद उसे, despite उसके अवमानना for being called `` Teddy ''.
born into a wealthy family in नई यॉर्क City, रूज़वेल्ट was a sickly child जो suffered from asthma और stayed at home studying natural इतिहास.
To overcome उसके शारीरिक weakness, he embraced a ज़ोरदार life.
home-schooled, he became an eager student of प्रकृति.
He attended Harvard University, where he पढ़ाई biology, boxed and developed an ब्याज in naval अफेयर्स.
In 1881, one साल out of Harvard, he थी elected to the New यॉर्क राज्य सभा, जहाँ he became a नेता of the सुधार faction of his Republican पार्टी ( the `` GOP '' ).
His The Naval War of 1812 ( 1882 ) established his पेशेवर reputation as a serious historian ; he wrote numerous books on hunting, the बाहरी, और current political issues, as well as frontier history.
In 1884, his first बीवी और his mother died on the same day.
He temporarily बाएँ politics and गई to the frontier, becoming a rancher in the `` badlands '' in the Dakotas.
Returning to नई York नगर, he भागा for mayor in 1886, finishing third साथ 60,000 मत.
he बाद gained fame by लेने vigorous charge of the नगर पुलिस.
at the नेशनल level, he was a नेता in civil service सुधार.
the Spanish–American War broke आउट in 1898 while Roosevelt was, effectively, कार्यशील the विभाग of the Navy.
he promptly resigned and formed the Rough राइडर्स – a स्वयंसेवी cavalry regiment कि fought in Cuba.
The युद्ध hero was elected governor in 1898 और in 1900 थी nominated लिये वाइस president.
He सफलतापूर्वक energized the GOP आधार as a अत्यधिक visible प्रचारक to reelect अध्यक्ष विलियम McKinley on a platform of ऊँची tariffs, the सुनहरा मानक, imperialism, prosperity at घर और विजय abroad.
In 1901, अध्यक्ष William McKinley was assassinated और Roosevelt became अध्यक्ष.
he attempted to move the Republican पार्टी ( gop ) toward प्रगतिवाद, सहित trust busting और increased regulation of व्यवसायों.
Roosevelt became the first person elected to a term in his own right in 1904 after having ascended to the प्रेसिडेंसी ( इससे the vice-presidency ) upon the मौत of उसके predecessor, जीतना the largest प्रतिशत of the लोकप्रिय vote since the uncontested election of 1820.
रूज़वेल्ट coined the phrase `` Square Deal `` to describe his domestic कार्यसूची, emphasizing that the average citizen होता get a fair share under his policies.
As an outdoorsman और naturalist, he promoted the संरक्षण गति.
on the संसार स्टेज, Roosevelt 's policies यहूद characterized by his slogan, `` Speak softly and carry a big stick ``.
a cousin is a सापेक्ष with जिसको a व्यक्ति shares एक or more आम ancestor ( s ) ( other than a जनक, child/descendant, सहोदर, child/descendant of a सहोदर, or सहोदर of a parent/ancestor ).
However in आम parlance, `` cousin '' सामान्यतः specifically means `` first cousin ''.
प्रणालियों of `` degrees '' और `` removals '' are used in the English-speaking संसार to describe the exact relationship between two cousins ( in the broad भाव ) और the ancestor वे have in आम.
विभिन्न governmental entities have established systems लिये legal उपयोग कि can more precisely specify kinships with आम पूर्वजो existing any number of generations in the past, though आम उपयोग often eliminates the degrees and removals and refers to people with common ancestry as बस `` दूर cousins '' or `` relatives ''.
वेबस्टर is an American situation कॉमेडी कि aired on ABC from सितंबर 16, 1983 until may 8, 1987, और in first-run अनुप्रयोग from September 21, 1987 until कूच 10, 1989.
The श्रेणी was निर्मित by stu Silver.
The show stars emmanuel लुईस in the शीर्षक role as a young लड़के जो, बाद losing उसके parents, is adopted by his एनएफएल -pro godfather, portrayed by एलेक्स Karras, और his नई socialite wife, निभाई by Susan Clark.
the focus थी largely on how इस impulsively married couple था to adjust to उनके नई lives and sudden parenthood, लकिन it थी the अनुकूल Webster himself who drove much of the प्लाट.
The series was उत्पादित by जॉर्जियाई Bay Ltd., emmanuel लुईस Entertainment Enterprises, inc. ( 1986-1989 ) और Paramount टेलीविज़न.
जैसे NBC 's पहले hit diff'rent स्ट्रोक्स, Webster प्रदर्शित a young African-American लड़के adopted by a श्वेत family.
तीन प्रकार of कोशिका प्रभाग
Cell प्रभाग is the process by which a parent cell divides into दो or more बेटी cells.
Cell division usually occurs as part of a larger कोशिका साईकिल.
in eukaryotes, there हैं two distinct प्रकार of cell division : a vegetative division, whereby प्रत्येक daughter कोशिका is genetically identical to the जनक cell ( mitosis ), and a reductive cell प्रभाग, whereby the number of गुणसूत्रों in the daughter कोशिकाएं is reduced by half, to उपज haploid gametes ( meiosis ).
Both of these cell division cycles हैं required in sexually reproducing organisms at कुछ पाइंट in their जीवन साईकिल, and दोनो are believed to be उपस्थित in the पिछला eukaryotic common पूर्वज Prokaryotes भी undergo a vegetative कोशिका division known as शब्दकोष fission, where उनके जेनेटिक सामग्री is segregated बराबर into two daughter कोशिकाएं.
सब cell विभाजन, regardless of organism, are preceded by a single round of DNA replication.
For सरल unicellular जीवों ऐसे as the amoeba, एक cell division is समतुल्य to reproduction – an संपूर्ण नई organism is created.
On a larger स्केल, mitotic cell प्रभाग can create progeny from multicellular जीवों, such as पौधे that grow from cuttings.
कोशिका division also enables sexually reproducing organisms to develop इससे the one-celled zygote, जिससे itself was produced by कोशिका division इससे gametes.
और बाद growth, कोशिका प्रभाग allows for continual निर्माण and मरम्मत of the organism.
A इंसान being 's देह experiences परिचय 10,000 खरब cell divisions in a आजीवन.
Cell division रै been modeled by finite subdivision rules.
The प्राथमिक concern of cell division is the मेंटेनेंस of the original cell 's genome.
पहले division can occur, the genomic सूचना कि is stored in गुणसूत्रों must be replicated, और the duplicated genome जरूर be separated cleanly between cells.
A great सौदे of सेल्यूलर infrastructure is involved in keeping genomic information consistent between `` generations ''.
Mountain ranges of Massachusetts, संयुक्त राज्य.
Howard जोन्स ( born जॉन Howard Jones, 23 February 1955, Southampton, Hampshire, इंग्लैण्ड ) is a अंग्रेजों musician, singer और songwriter.
According to the गिनीज किताब of अंग्रेजों hit Singles & Albums, `` Jones is an accomplished singer-songwriter who was a regular चार्ट visitor in the mid-1980s with उसके brand of synthpop.
Jones, जो थी equally लोकप्रिय in the U.S., appeared at Live Aid ``.
Allmusic journalist, Stephen Thomas Erlewine adds, `` जोन्स थी एक of the defining आंकड़े of mid-1980s synthpop.
His music मिलाया the प्रौद्योगिकी intensive sound of नई Wave with the cheery आशावाद of hippies and लेट 1960s पॉप.
Jones racked up a string of हिट्स in the मिड और लेट 1980s, before he retreated into होने a cult figure in the 1990s ''.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय Isle of man TT ( Tourist ट्रॉफी ) रेस is a मोटरसाइकिल racing इवेंट held on the आइल of man और was for many सालो the most prestigious motorcycle रेस in the world.
the इवेंट was भाग of the FIM Motorcycle ग्रैंड Prix World Championship during the काल 1949–1976 before being transferred to the संयुक्त Kingdom after safety concerns and run by the FIM as the अंग्रेजों ग्रैंड Prix for the 1977 season.
The आइल of man TT दौड़ became part of the TT Formula 1 चैंपियनशिप इससे 1977 to 1990 to बचाना the इवेंट 's रेसिंग औकात.
इससे 1989 the racing has been विकसित by the आइल of Man Department of Tourism as the आइल of man tt पर्व.
the रेस is चलाएं in a time-trial format on पब्लिक सड़कें बंद लिये रेसिंग by the provisions of an अधिनियम of tynwald ( the parliament of the Isle of Man ).
The first race थी आयोजित on Tuesday 28 may 1907 and was पुकारा the International auto-cycle पर्यटक Trophy.
The event was organised by the auto-cycle क्लबों over 10 गोद of the St John 's छोटी कोर्स of 15 miles 1,470 गज लिये road-legal touring motorcycles with exhaust silencers, saddles, pedals और mud-guards.
The विजेता of the single-cylinder class, और overall विजेता of the first इवेंट in 1907, was Charlie Collier सवारी a Matchless motorcycle in a time of 4 hours, 8 minutes and 8 seconds at an average race गति of 38.21 mph.
the विजेता of the twin-cylinder class was rem Fowler सवारी a Peugeot engined Norton in a समय of 4 hours 21 मिनट्स और 52 सेकेंड at an औसत race गति of 36.21 mph.
The ट्रॉफी presented to चार्ली collier as the winner of the 1907 Isle of man TT रेस, was दान by the बिल्ले de Mouzilly st. मंगल.
It featured a stylised संस्करण of ओलम्पिक परमेश्वर hermes by Giovanni da बोलोग्ना as a silver figurine astride a winged व्हील.
The ट्रॉफी was समान in डिज़ाइन to the 18 carat सुनहरा montague Trophy presented to जॉन नेपियर ( arrol-johnston ) as the inaugural winner of the Isle of Man Tourist Trophy car रेस in 1905 now known as the rac पर्यटक ट्रॉफी.
the बिल्ले de mouzilly st. मंगल ट्रॉफी is now presented annually to the विजेता of the Isle of man वरिष्ठ tt Motor-Cycle रेस.
The 2007 Isle of Man tt थी the Centenary event which ran between 26 may and 8 June 2007 and प्रदर्शित a special Re-enactment of the 1907 Isle of man TT Race held on the गाँव ग्रीन next to Tynwald Hill in St जॉन 's on सोमवार 28 May 2007.
The vintage parade of 100 क्लासिक मोटरसाइकिल लिये the centenary Re-enactment on the original St जॉन 's Short Course was flagged दूर by former World Motor-Cycle चैंपियन Geoff Duke.
The first of the भागीदार to be flagged away was the recently restored twin-cylinder Peugeot-Norton ridden by Rem Fowler during the पहला आइल of Man TT रेस in 1907.
भी participating in the 2007 Re-enactment was TT race प्रतिस्पर्धी guy मार्टिन सवारी a 1938 Triumph बाघ 100 500 cc और अन्य former TT प्रतिस्पर्धी including एलन cathcart, सैमी Miller, Nick Jefferies and मिक Grant भी completed the re-enactment गोद.
upright=1.15
बेरोजगारी ( or joblessness ) occurs जब people हैं बगैर कार्य और actively seeking work.
The बेरोजगारी rate is a measure of the prevalence of unemployment and it is calculated as a percentage by dividing the क्रमांक of बेरोजगार individuals by all individuals currently in the labor force.
During अवधि of recession, an economy प्रायः experiences a relatively ऊँची unemployment rate.
According to International श्रमिक संगठन रपट, अधिक than 197 million लोगों globally हैं आउट of work or 6 % of the संसार 's workforce were without a job in 2012.
There remains considerable सैद्धांतिक बहस regarding the कल्याणकारी, consequences and समाधान लिये बेरोजगारी.
Classical economics, New शास्त्रीय अर्थशास्त्र, and the Austrian स्कूल of economics argue कि market mechanisms हैं reliable means of resolving unemployment.
ये theories argue against interventions imposed on the मजदूर मार्केट इससे the outside, such as unionization, minimum wage laws, कर, and अन्य regulations कि they claim discourage the भर्ती of मजदूर.
keynesian economics emphasizes the cyclical nature of unemployment और recommends सरकारी interventions in the अर्थव्यवस्था that it दावा होगा reduce बेरोजगारी during recessions.
This सिद्धान्त focuses on recurrent shocks that एकाएक reduce कुल demand लिये goods and सेवाएं and thus reduce demand for workers.
keynesian मॉडल recommend government interventions designed to increase demand for workers ; these can शामिल financial stimuli, publicly funded job सृष्टि, and expansionist monetary policies.
In जोड to these व्यापक theories of बेरोजगारी, वहीँ हैं a few categorizations of unemployment कि हैं प्रयुक्त to more precisely model the प्रभाव of unemployment भीतर the आर्थिक system.
The main types of unemployment शामिल संरचनात्मक unemployment जिससे focuses on structural problems in the अर्थव्यवस्था and inefficiencies inherent in labour markets, including a बेमेल between the सप्लाई and माँग of laborers with जरुरी कौशल सेट.
संरचनात्मक वितर्क emphasize causes and solutions सम्बन्धित to विघटनकारी technologies and वैश्वीकरण.
Discussions of frictional unemployment फ़ोकस on voluntary decisions to work आधारित on each individuals ' valuation of उनके own कार्य और how that compares to वर्तमान wage दरों प्लस the time और effort required to find a job.
Causes and solutions for frictional unemployment often पता job entry threshold and मजदूरी rates.
Behavioral economists highlight व्यक्तिगत biases in निर्णय making, and often involve समस्याएं and solutions concerning स्टिकी wages and efficiency wages.
Collectivism is कोई philosophic, political, धार्मिक, economic, or social आउटलुक that emphasizes the interdependence of every human होने in a society or सभ्यता.
Collectivism is a basic cultural तत्व that exists as the रिवर्स of individualism in इंसान nature ( in the same way ऊँची कॉन्टेक्स्ट culture exists as the रिवर्स of low context culture ).
collectivist orientations stress the importance of cohesion within social समूह ( such as an `` in-group '', in कया specific context it is defined ) and in कुछ cases, the priority of group goals over व्यक्तिगत goals.
Collectivists प्रायः फ़ोकस on community, society, nation or country.
It रै महरूम used as an तत्व in many different and diverse प्रकार of सरकारी and राजनैतिक, आर्थिक and शैक्षणिक philosophies throughout इतिहास और most human समाजों in practice contain तत्व of both व्यक्तिगत and collectivism.
कुछ उदाहरण of collectivist cultures include India and Japan.
collectivism can be divided into horizontal collectivism and लंबवत collectivism.
Horizontal collectivism stresses collective decision-making among बराबर individuals, और is thus प्रायः आधारित on decentralization and समतावाद.
लंबवत collectivism is based on hierarchical structures of power and on moral and cultural conformity, और is therefore based on centralization and पदानुक्रम.
a सहकारी enterprise would be an उदाहरण of horizontal collectivism, whereas a military hierarchy would be an उदाहरण of vertical collectivism.
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis ( ADEM ) is an प्रतिरक्षा mediated disease of the brain.
it usually occurs following a viral infection but may appear following टीकाकरण, bacterial or parasitic infection, or भी appear spontaneously.
as it involves autoimmune demyelination, it is similar to multiple sclerosis, and is considered part of the अनेक sclerosis borderline diseases.
the incidence rate is परिचय 8 प्रति 1,000,000 people प्रति साल.
Although it occurs in all ages, most reported मामले हैं in children और adolescents, with the औसत age around 5 to 8 सालो बूढ़ा.
the mortality rate may be as ऊँची as 5 %, पूरा रिकवरी is seen in 50 to 75 % of cases, while up to 70 to 90 % रिकवर साथ some नाबालिग residual disability.
the औसत समय to recover is one to six months.
ADEM produces multiple inflammatory lesions in the दिमाग and स्पाइनल cord, particularly in the श्वेत पदार्थ.
Usually ये हैं found in the subcortical और सेंट्रल श्वेत matter and cortical gray-white जंक्शन of both दिमागी hemispheres, cerebellum, brainstem, and स्पाइनल cord, लकिन periventricular श्वेत matter and धूसर matter of the cortex, thalami और basal ganglia may also be शामिल.
When the रोगी पीड़ित अधिक than one demyelinating episode, it is called तूल disseminated encephalomyelitis or multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis ( MDEM ).
The stomach is a muscular, hollow, dilated part of the पाचन system which functions as an महत्वपूर्ण अंग of the digestive ट्रैक्ट in कुछ animals, including vertebrates, echinoderms, insects ( mid-gut ), और molluscs.
It is involved in the दूसरी phase of पाचन, following mastication ( चबाने ).
The stomach is स्तिथ between the esophagus और the small आंत.
it secretes protein-digesting एंजाइमों called protease and strong acids to aid in खाना पाचन, ( भेजा to it via esophageal peristalsis ) through smooth muscular contortions ( पुकारा segmentation ) पहले sending partially पचता खाना ( chyme ) to the छोटी intestines.
the word stomach is derived from the Latin stomachus जिससे is निकला इससे the Greek word stomachos ( στόμαχος ), ultimately इससे stoma ( ), `` mouth ''.
The words gastro- and gastric ( meaning related to the stomach ) are both derived from the यूनानी word gaster ( ).
1940 pontiac Special Series 25 Woodie
a woodie is a car body style, especially a स्टेशन wagon, where the rear bodywork is constructed of wood फ्रेमवर्क साथ infill panels of लकडी or चित्रित मेटल.
बाद the निधन of वास्तविक लकडी construction, manufacturers प्रयुक्त अनुकरण woodgrain चादर vinyl—sometimes augmented साथ three-dimensional, simulated framework—to recall wood construction.
In 2008, लकडी निर्माण थी evoked abstractly on the Ford Flex साथ a series of पक्ष और rear आड़ा grooves.
A pearl is a hard object उत्पादित भीतर the नरम ऊतक ( specifically the mantle ) of a living shelled mollusc.
Just जैसे the shell of a clam, a pearl is made up of calcium carbonate in मिनट crystalline form, which रै been deposited in केंद्रिय परतों.
The ideal pearl is perfectly गोलाकार और चिकना, but many other shapes of मोती ( बरॉक मोती ) occur.
The finest विशेषता natural pearls have महरूम highly valued as रत्नों and objects of सौंदर्य लिये अनेक सदियां, और क्युकी of this, the word पर्ल has become a metaphor for something बहुत rare, ठीक, सराहनीय, and valuable.
the सबसे मूल्यवान pearls occur spontaneously in the जंगली, लकिन वे हैं extremely विरल.
ये wild pearls are referred to as प्राकृतिक मोती.
संस्कारी or farmed मोती from pearl oysters and freshwater mussels make up the बहुमत of those that are currently sold.
नकल मोती हैं also widely sold in inexpensive jewelry, लकिन the विशेषता of उनके iridescence is usually very ग़रीब, and often, कृत्रिम मोती are easily distinguished इससे genuine मोती.
मोती have been harvested and cultivated primarily लिये उपयोग in आभूषण, लकिन in the past वे were भी stitched onto lavish clothing.
मोती have also been crushed and प्रयुक्त in cosmetics, medicines, and in paint formulations.
Whether जंगली or cultured, gem quality pearls are लगभग सदा nacreous and, as is the interior of the shell that produces them.
However, almost all species of shelled molluscs हैं सक्षम of producing मोती ( formally referred to as `` calcareous concretions '' by कुछ स्त्रोत ) of lesser shine or less गोलाकार shape.
Although these may also be legitimately referred to as `` मोती '' by gemological labs and also अंतर्गत u.S. Federal व्यापार Commission नियम, और are formed in the same way, सबसे of them have no मान, except as curiosities.
Bing ( known previously as सजीव Search, Windows सजीव ढूंढें, and MSN Search ) is a web search engine ( advertised as a `` निर्णय engine `` ) from Microsoft.
Bing थी unveiled by microsoft सीईओ स्टीव Ballmer on may 28, 2009 at the All Things Digital conference in सैन Diego लिये release on जून 1.
notable changes शामिल the listing of search सुझाव while प्रश्नों are entered और a सूची of सम्बन्धित searches ( called `` explore pane '' ) based on semantic प्रौद्योगिकी from powerset which Microsoft purchased in 2008.
on July 29, 2009, Microsoft और याहू ! घोषित a सौदे in जिससे bing would शक्ति Yahoo ! ढूंढें.
सब याहू ! Search वैश्विक customers और partners are expected to have बना the transition by early 2012.
In October 2011, bing घोषित it थी working on नई back-end search अवसंरचना, with the लक्ष्य of delivering faster and थोड़ा more relevant search परिणाम for users.
ज्ञात as `` Tiger '', the new index-serving प्रौद्योगिकी रै been incorporated into Bing globally, since August 2011.
in May 2012, Bing announced another redesign of its search engine that शामिल `` Sidebar '', a social विशेषता कि searches users ' सोशल networks for information प्रासंगिक to the search query.
A आरेख प्रर्दशित an i Formation on offense और a 4-3 गठन on defense
in अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल, प्रत्येक team रै ग्यारह players on the field at one time.
The specific भूमिका कि a खिलाड़ी takes on the फ़ील्ड is called their position.
Under the आधुनिक rules of अमरीकी football, teams हैं allowed unlimited subsititutions, कि is teams may बदलें any number of खिलाड़ी after any खेल.
This रै resulted in the development of three `` platoons '' of players, the offense ( the टोली साथ the ball, who is trying to score ), the defense ( the टोली trying to prevent the अन्य टोली इससे scoring, and to take the ball from them ), और the special teams ( जो खेल in kicking परिस्थितियों ).
Within those platoons, various विशिष्ट positions मौजूद depending on what the player 's main जॉब is.
The Irish लोगों ( or na héireannaigh ; Ulster-Scots : airish fowk ) हैं an ethnic group who originate in Ireland, an island in northwestern Europe.
Ireland has महरूम populated for around 9,000 years ( according to archaeological studies, see प्रागैतिहासिक Ireland ).
The Irish लोगों 's earliest ancestors हैं recorded in legends – वे are claimed to be descended from groups ऐसे as the Nemedians, Fomorians, fir bolg, Tuatha dé Danann and the milesians.
Lebor Gabála érenn, a किताब of Irish mythology tells that milesians were Scythian descendants.
The प्रमुख groups that interacted with the आयरिश in the मध्य आयु include the Picts, स्कॉट्स, and the वाइकिंग्स.
Due to this contact, icelanders हैं noted लिये having कुछ Irish descent.
The Anglo-Norman invasion of the High मध्य आयु, the English बागानों and the subsequent English नियम of the country introduced the normans and फ्लेमिश into Ireland.
वेल्श, picts, Bretons, and small पार्टियों of gauls and भी Anglo-Saxons are known in Ireland इससे much earlier टाइम्स.
वहीँ have been many notable आयरिश लोगों throughout इतिहास.
the 6th सदी आयरिश monk and missionary Columbanus is regarded as एक of the `` fathers of Europe '', followed by Kilian of Würzburg और Vergilius of साल्जबर्ग.
The वैज्ञानिक रॉबर्ट बॉयल is माना the `` पिता of chemistry ``.
Famous आयरिश explorers include Brendan the नाविक, Robert mcclure, अर्नेस्ट Shackleton और tom crean.
By कुछ खाते, the first European child born in North America had आयरिश descent on both पहलू ; और an Irishman थी the first European to set foot on अमरीकी soil in Columbus ' expedition of 1492.
There are वंशजों of आयरिश people जीना in अनेक western countries, विशेषकर in english-speaking देशों.
historically, emigration रै been caused by politics, अकाल और economic मुद्दे.
An estimated 50 to 80 million लोगों हैं वंशजों of Irish people, primarily in the United किंगडम, the संयुक्त States, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, कनाडा and आइसलैंड ; वहीँ हैं also smaller संख्याएँ in Argentina, चिली, Mexico, Jamaica, Barbados, South Africa, नई जीलैंड, फ़्रांस, Germany and Brazil.
The largest number of वंशजों of Irish people live in the संयुक्त States.
The क्रमांक of people living in ऑस्ट्रेलिया जो are of Irish descent is higher, as a प्रतिशत of कुल population, than that of कोई other country.
Approximately forty percent of the settlement जनसांख्यिकी of आइसलैंड आए इससे Ireland or Scotland.
The very first निवासियों of Iceland were Irish.
the Hubble Space दूरदर्शी ( HST ) is a स्पेस telescope that was carried into orbit by a स्पेस शटल in 1990 and remains in operation.
A एपर्चर दूरदर्शी in low Earth कक्षा, हबल 's four main instruments observe in the निकट पराबैंगनी, दृश्य, and निकट infrared.
The दूरदर्शी is नामित बाद the astronomer एडविन हबल.
हबल 's कक्षा बाहर the distortion of Earth 's atmosphere allows it to take extremely sharp images with almost no background लाइट.
Hubble 's गहन Field have been कुछ of the सबसे detailed visible-light बिंब कभी, allowing a गहन view into स्पेस और time.
अनेक Hubble observations have led to breakthroughs in astrophysics, such as accurately determining the rate of expansion of the universe.
Although not the first space telescope, Hubble is one of the largest and most versatile, और is खूब ज्ञात as both a vital शोध tool and a public संबंध boon for खगोलशास्त्र.
The HST थी निर्मित by the United राज्य स्पेस agency NASA, साथ contributions from the European Space एजेंसी, और is operated by the स्पेस दूरदर्शी Science Institute.
the HST is one of NASA 's ग्रेट observatories, along साथ the Compton Gamma रे Observatory, the Chandra X-ray वेधशाला, and the Spitzer Space दूरदर्शी.
Space telescopes यहूद प्रस्तावित as early as 1923.
Hubble was funded in the 1970s, with a proposed launch in 1983, लकिन the प्रोजेक्ट was घिरा by तकनीकी delays, budget problems, and the Challenger disaster.
जब finally launched in 1990, वैज्ञानिकों मिला that the main mirror had been ground incorrectly, compromising the telescope 's capabilities.
The दूरदर्शी was लौटी to its intended विशेषता by a servicing मिशन in 1993.
Hubble is the तभी telescope designed to be serviced in space by astronauts.
between 1993 और 2002, four मिशन repaired, upgraded, और replaced प्रणालियों on the दूरदर्शी ; a पांचवां mission was canceled on सुरक्षा grounds following the Columbia disaster.
however, after spirited public discussion, NASA administrator Mike Griffin approved एक final सर्विसिंग mission, समाप्त in 2009 by स्पेस Shuttle Atlantis.
The telescope is अभी अपेक्षित to function until at least 2013.
इसके वैज्ञानिक successor, the जेम्स Webb स्पेस दूरदर्शी ( JWST ), is to be launched in 2018 or possibly later.
Anti-inflammatory refers to the property of a पदार्थ or treatment that reduces सूजन.
anti-inflammatory दवाएँ मेक up about half of analgesics, remedying pain by reducing inflammation as opposed to opioids, जिससे affect the central nervous system.
The Tonight Show is a US late-night talk दिखाएँ that रै aired on NBC since 1954.
It is the longest फिलहाल running regularly अनुसूचित entertainment कार्यक्रम in the US and the third longest-running दिखाएँ on NBC बाद Meet the Press and Today.
The tonight Show थी hosted by Steve एलन ( 1954–1957 ), Jack paar ( 1957–1962 ), Johnny Carson ( 1962–1992 ), Jay Leno ( 1992–2009, 2010–present ), और कोनन o'brien ( 2009–2010 ).
Several guest hosts also appeared, विशेषकर during the paar और Carson eras.
the longest-serving मेजबान to date was Johnny Carson, जो hosted The tonight दिखाएँ अभिनीत जॉनी Carson लिये 30 seasons from the fall of 1962 through the spring of 1992.
The वर्तमान host of the show is Jay Leno, जो था previously hosted the दिखाएँ from 1992 to 2009 and began his second tenure on कूच 1, 2010.
On April 3, 2013, NBC घोषित Jimmy fallon होता become the new host of the tonight Show.
the Tonight Show साथ Jimmy Fallon will premiere February 24, 2014, the day बाद the closing ceremonies of the 2014 Winter ओलंपिक.
ss एंड्रिया डोरिया.
सुनाया थी an ocean लाइनर for the Italian Line ( Società di navigazione इटालिया ) home ported in जेनोआ, Italy, सबसे famous लिये इसके sinking in 1956, when 52 people died ( 51 इससे तात्कालिक प्रभाव ).
नामित बाद the 16th-century genoese admiral एंड्रिया Doria, the ship had a gross register tonnage of 29,100 और a capacity of परिचय 1,200 passengers and 500 crew.
For a country attempting to rebuild its अर्थव्यवस्था and reputation बाद संसार युद्ध II, एंड्रिया Doria was an प्रतीक of Italian national pride.
of all इटली 's ships at the समय, एंड्रिया डोरिया was the largest, fastest और supposedly safest.
शुभारम्भ on 16 जून 1951, the जलयान undertook its maiden voyage on 14 जनवरी 1953.
on 25 जुलाई 1956, while the एंड्रिया Doria was approaching the coast of nantucket, Massachusetts, बंधी लिये नई यॉर्क City, the eastbound of the Swedish अमरीकी Line collided साथ it in कया became one of इतिहास 's most infamous maritime disasters.
Struck in the side, the top-heavy एंड्रिया Doria immediately प्रारंभ to list severely to starboard, which बाएँ half of इसके lifeboats unusable.
The consequent shortage of lifeboats might have resulted in significant घाटा of life, लकिन the दक्षता of the जलयान 's तकनीकी design allowed it to रहो afloat for over 11 hours बाद the ramming.
the good बर्ताव of the crew, improvements in communications और the rapid response of अन्य जहाजों averted a विपत्ति similar in scale to that of the in 1912.
1,660 passengers and crew यहूद बचाया and बच, जबकि 46 लोगों died as a consequence of the टक्कर.
the evacuated लक्ज़री लाइनर capsized and sank the following morning.
This दुर्घटना remains the worst maritime disaster to occur in United States waters since the sinking of the in 1915.
the incident and its aftermath यहूद heavily covered by the news मीडिया.
जबकि the rescue प्रयत्न were both successful and commendable, the कारण of the टक्कर साथ the स्टॉकहोम and the घाटा of एंड्रिया Doria generated much interest in the मीडिया and अनेक lawsuits.
largely because of an out-of-court settlement अनुबंध between the two shipping companies during hearings immediately after the विपत्ति, no determination of the कारण ( s ) was ever formally प्रकाशित.
Although वृहद दोष appeared initially to पतन on the इतालवी liner, more recent discoveries have indicated that a misreading of radar on the Swedish जलयान may have initiated the collision course, अग्रणी to errors on दोनो जहाजों.
Andrea डोरिया was the last major transatlantic passenger vessel to sink before aircraft became the preferred method of travel.
Dialysis tubing
Dialysis tubing is a type of semi- or partially permeable झिल्ली tubing made from regenerated cellulose or सेलोफेन.
It can be प्रयुक्त for diffusion with solutes or osmosis if used with water तभी.
Osmosis is when जल passes through a semi-permeable परत to पहुँचें संतुलन.
Diffusion, on the other हाथ, allows the गति of अणुओं इससे high विशेषज्ञता to low concentration.
It will only allow molecules to pass through a semi-permeable membrane or layer if the अणु is small पर्याप्त to fit through the झिल्ली or a झिल्ली 's pore.
इस प्रायः परिणाम with the effects of diffusion through a झिल्ली तभी really affects small molecules, और लगभग never larger molecules.
डायलिसिस tubing is used in clinical हालातों to ensure a filtered flow of अणुओं, preventing the प्रवाह of larger solute molecules.
Small molecules can be `` धोया '' आउट of a solution जिससे is उत्तेजित through the tubing into a solvent, प्रायः जल, which surrounds it and in which they can be flushed away.
In demonstrations of semi-permeable membranes, a solution containing several प्रकार of molecules, प्रायः ग्लूकोज and मंड, is लगाई into a semi-permeable dialysis थैला, ऐसे as a cellulose membrane साथ pores, and the bag is sealed साथ a गांठ or elastic band.
the sealed डायलिसिस bag is लगाई in a संग्राहक of a different solution, or water.
अणुओं small enough to pass through the tubing ( water, salts, monosaccharides, और other small अणुओं ) tend to मूव into or आउट of the dialysis थैला in the दिशा of decreasing concentration, therefore displaying diffusion.
Larger molecules ( ऐसे as proteins, or polysaccharides ) that have dimensions significantly greater than the pore diameter are retained inside the डायलिसिस bag.
the water और smaller solutes in a hypotonic solution ( a solution कि रै a lesser solute विशेषज्ञता than the समाधान it is संदर्भित to ) होगा क्रॉस a semi-permeable membrane, like dialysis tubing, into a hypertonic समाधान ( a समाधान that has a उच्चतर solute concentration than the समाधान it is संदर्भित to ) in an attempt to पहुँचें equilibrium, जहाँ the solute विशेषज्ञता of each solution is in संतुलन.
Mercury laboratory thermometer
A थर्मामीटर ( इससे the यूनानी, thermos, meaning `` hot '' और μἐτρον, metron, `` माप '' ) is a यंत्र that measures temperature or temperature gradient using a variety of different principles.
A thermometer रै दो important elements : the temperature सेंसर ( e.g. the बल्ब on a mercury-in-glass thermometer ) in which some physical बदलें occurs with temperature, plus some means of converting this physical change into a numerical value ( e.g. the दृश्य स्केल कि is marked on a mercury-in-glass thermometer ).
There are many प्रकार and many उपयोग for thermometers, as विस्तृत below in sections of this आलेख.
Snow White and the सात dwarfs is a 1937 American animated musical fantasy film produced by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी और released by RKO Radio Pictures.
Based on the German परी टेल by the Brothers Grimm, it is the पहला full-length cel animated विशेषता film and the earliest in the Walt Disney एनिमेटेड Classics श्रेणी.
The स्टोरी was adapted by storyboard कलाकारों Dorothy ऐन Blank, रिचर्ड creedon, Merrill de Maris, ओटो englander, Earl hurd, Dick rickard, टेड Sears and Webb Smith.
दाउद हाथ थी the supervising director, जबकि विलियम Cottrell, Wilfred Jackson, लैरी Morey, Perce pearce, और Ben sharpsteen directed the film 's individual sequences.
Snow श्वेत premiered at the carthay Circle Theatre on दिसम्बर 21, 1937, followed by a nationwide रिलीज on February 4, 1938, and with international आय of $ 8 million during इसके initial release briefly assumed the record of highest grossing sound फिल्मी at the time.
the लोकप्रियता of the फिल्मी has led to it being re-released theatrically many टाइम्स, until इसके home वीडियो रिलीज in the 1990s.
Adjusted for महंगाई, it is one of the शीर्ष ten performers at the North American बक्सा office.
at the 11th Academy पुरस्कार, Walt डिज़्नी was awarded an honorary Oscar, and the फिल्मी थी nominated लिये Best musical Score.
It थी added to the United States National Film Registry in 1989 and is ranked in the अमरीकी Film Institute 's list of the 100 महानतम American films, who also नामित the फिल्मी as the महानतम अमरीकी animated film of सब समय in 2008.
Disney 's take on the परी टेल रै had a big cultural प्रभाव, resulting in a लोकप्रिय थीम park attraction, a video खेल, and a ब्रॉडवे musical.
Childbirth, labour, delivery, birth, partus, or parturition is the culmination of a गर्भावस्था काल with the expulsion of one or more newborn infants from a स्त्री 's गर्भाशय.
The प्रक्रम of normal childbirth is categorized in three stages of labour : the shortening और dilation of the cervix, descent और जनम of the infant, and जनम of the placenta.
In अनेक cases and with increasing आवृत्ति, प्रसव is achieved through प्रेरण of मजदूर or caesarean section, which is the removal of the neonate through a surgical incision in the उदर, बल्कि than through vaginal birth.
Childbirth by C-Sections increased 50 % in the u.S. from 1996 to 2006, और comprise nearly 32 % of births in the U.S. and Canada.
With आदर to induced मजदूर, अधिक than 22 % of women undergo induction of labour in the United States.
चिकित्सा professional policy makers ढूँढें that induced births and elective cesarean can be नुकसानदेह to the भ्रूण and neonate as well as harmful or without benefit to the माँ, and have established strict guidelines लिये non-medically indicated induced births और elective cesarean before 39 सप्ताह.
चिरायु la Bam was an MTV & चिरायु दिखाएँ which followed bam Margera and his क्रू as they undertook challenges, performed स्टंट और traveled the world.
the दिखाएँ ran लिये 5 seasons between 2003 and 2005.
Flushed Away is a 2006 british/american computer एनिमेटेड कार्रवाई / adventure कॉमेडी फिल्मी directed by David Bowers और sam Fell.
it was बना in the partnership between aardman Animations और DreamWorks एनिमेशन, और is Aardman 's पहला completely computer-animated feature as opposed to the usual stop-motion.
the film stars the आवाज़ talents of Hugh Jackman, Kate Winslet, Andy Serkis, Bill Nighy, इयान McKellen, शेन Richie and जां Reno.
the स्टोरी थी by sam गिरी, पीटर रब, लंड सहनशील, और इयान La Frenais, और the screenplay was written by लंड Clement, इयान La frenais, Christopher Lloyd, Joe Keenan, and William davies.
the film was released in US on 3 नवम्बर 2006, and in uk on दिसम्बर 1 2006, और थी distributed by Paramount Pictures, मगर लिये स्विट्ज़रलैंड, Spain, and the नीदरलैंड्स, जिससे यहूद handled by Universal तस्वीरें.
The Atlanta Braves are a पेशेवर बेसबॉल टोली based in Atlanta.
The Braves are a member of the Eastern प्रभाग of Major League Baseball 's National League.
the Braves have played in टर्नर फ़ील्ड since 1997.
The `` braves '' नाम, जिससे was पहला प्रयुक्त in 1912, originates from a term लिये a Native American warrior.
They हैं nicknamed `` the bravos '', and often referred to as `` America 's टोली `` in सन्दर्भ to the team 's games being ब्रॉडकास्ट on the nationally उपलब्धियाँ TBS इससे the 1970s until 2007, gaining a wide fanbase.
इससे 1991 to 2005 the braves यहूद one of the most successful franchises in baseball, जीतना division शीर्षक an unprecedented 14 consecutive times in कि period ( omitting the strike-shortened 1994 season in जिससे there were no आधिकारिक division champions ).
The Braves जीती the NL वेस्ट 1991–93 and the NL East 1995–2005, और returned to the playoffs as the National League जंगली कार्ड in 2010.
The braves advanced to the संसार Series five times in the 1990s, जीतना the title in 1995.
Since their डेब्यू in the National League in 1876, the मताधिकार रै जीती 16 divisional शीर्षक, 17 National League pennants, as खूब as three World श्रेणी championships—in 1914 as the बोस्टन braves, in 1957 as the Milwaukee braves, and in 1995 in अटलांटा.
The Braves are the तभी MLB मताधिकार to have won the World Series in three different home cities.
the club is एक of the National लीग 's two remaining charter franchises ( the other होने the Chicago शावक ) and was founded in Boston, मैसाचुसेट्स, in 1871 as the Boston रेड Stockings ( not to be confused साथ the American League 's बोस्टन Red sox ).
They are माना `` the oldest लगातार playing team in major उत्तर American sports. ''
वहीँ is an argument as to who is दरअसल older because although the शावक हैं a full season `` older '' ( formed as the Chicago श्वेत stockings in 1870 ) शिकागो lost two सीज़न to the Great Chicago Fire, यूँ the Braves have played अधिक लगातार सीज़न.
After various name changes ( such as the Boston beaneaters ), the टोली operated as the बोस्टन Braves लिये सबसे of the पहला हाफ of the 20th सदी.
In 1953, the team moved to मिल्वौकी, विस्कॉन्सिन और became the Milwaukee Braves, followed by the move to Atlanta in 1966.
the टोली 's tenure in Atlanta is famous लिये Hank आरोन तोड़कर बेब Ruth 's करियर home चलाएं record in 1974, हालांकि the बहुमत of Aaron 's home runs were hit while the टोली थी in मिल्वौकी.
His record stood जबतक 2007, जब सैन Francisco left fielder बैरी bonds broke the record.
The leaves of a beech tree
3d रेंडरिंग of a μCT स्कैन of a leaf piece, resolution circa 40 μm/ voxel.
A पत्ता is an अंग of a vascular संयंत्र, as पारिभाषित in वनस्पति terms, and in particular in plant morphology.
Foliage is a mass noun कि refers to पत्ते as a feature of plants.
Typically a leaf is a पतला, flattened अंग borne ऊपर ground and specialized for photosynthesis, but many types of पत्ते are adapted in ways almost unrecognisable in those terms : कुछ are नहीं चपटा ( लिये उदाहरण many succulent leaves और conifers ), some are not above ground ( such as बल्ब scales ), और कुछ हैं without major photosynthetic फलन ( consider for उदाहरण cataphylls, spines, and cotyledons ).
Conversely, many structures of non-vascular पौधे, or even of कुछ lichens, जिससे हैं नहीं plants at all ( in the भाव of होने सदस्यों of the kingdom plantae ), do look और फलन much like पत्ते.
furthermore, several structures मिला in vascular plants look like पत्ते but हैं नहीं actually leaves ; they differ इससे leaves in उनके structures और origins.
उदाहरण शामिल phyllodes, cladodes, and phylloclades.
शीर्षक card for the 1937 हमारी Gang कॉमेडी Rushin ' Ballet.
Our गिरोह ( भी ज्ञात as the छोटी Rascals or Hal रोच 's Rascals ) हैं a श्रेणी of अमरीकी कॉमेडी short films about a समूह of poor neighborhood children और their adventures.
Created by कॉमेडी producer एचएएल रोच, the श्रेणी is विख्यात लिये showing children behaving in a अपेक्षाकृत natural way, as Roach and original निदेशक Robert F. McGowan worked to film the unaffected, कच्चा nuances apparent in नियमित children बल्कि than have उन्हें imitate वयस्क acting styles.
In जोड, Our Gang notably put boys, girls, whites and blacks together in a समूह as equals, कुछ कि `` broke new मैदान, '' according to film historian Leonard maltin.
ऐसे a बात था never महरूम done before in सिनेमा लकिन has चूंकि महरूम repeated after the कामयाबी of हमारी गिरोह.
The पहला उत्पादन at the रोच studio in 1922 was a series of silent छोटी विषय.
जब Roach changed वितरकों from pathé to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer ( MGM ) in 1927, and converted the series to sound in 1929, the श्रेणी took off even further.
Production continued at the Roach studio जबतक 1938, when the श्रेणी was sold to MGM, who then continued producing the comedies until 1944.
the हमारी Gang series शामिल a कुल of 220 shorts और one feature film, General spanky, featuring over forty-one child अभिनेताओं.
As MGM retained the अधिकारों to the हमारी गिरोह trademark following उनके purchase of the उत्पादन अधिकारों, the 80 Roach-produced `` talkies '' were syndicated for television अंतर्गत the title The Little दुष्टों beginning in 1955.
Both Roach 's the Little दुष्टों package ( अभी स्वामित्व by सीबीएस टेलीविज़न वितरण ) और mgm 's हमारी Gang पैकेज ( अभी owned by Warner Bros. entertainment ) have चूंकि remained in अनुप्रयोग, साथ periodic new productions आधारित on the शॉर्ट्स surfacing over the सालो, सहित a 1994 छोटी दुष्टों विशेषता film released by Universal तस्वीरें.
Zacharias Janssen ( भी Zacharias जानसन or Sacharias Jansen ) ( b.1580-88, d.pre-1632 to 1638 ) थी a डच spectacle-maker from Middelburg संबद्ध with the आविष्कार of the पहला optical दूरदर्शी.
Janssen is sometimes also credited लिये inventing the first truly यौगिक microscope.
However, the origin of the microscope, बस like the origin of the दूरदर्शी, is a matter of debate.
झील tahoe ( ; washo : dáʔaw ) is a large freshwater झील in the Sierra नेवाडा of the संयुक्त States.
At a सतह उन्नयन of, it is located along the border between California और नेवाडा, वेस्ट of Carson City.
Lake Tahoe is the largest अल्पाइन lake in North America.
इसके depth is, बनाना it the United राज्य 's second-deepest ( the deepest is Crater Lake in Oregon, being deeper, at ).
Additionally, Lake Tahoe is listed as the 26th largest झील by आवाज़ in the world at.
the झील थी formed about 2 लाख सालो पहले और is a part of the झील tahoe Basin with the modern झील being shaped during the ice ages.
it is ज्ञात लिये the clarity of इसके water and the panorama of surrounding kyu on सब sides.
The area surrounding the lake is भी referred to as झील Tahoe, or simply Tahoe.
झील tahoe is a major tourist attraction in दोनो Nevada and California.
it is home to a क्रमांक of ski resorts, summer outdoor recreation, and tourist attractions.
Snow and skiing are a significant भाग of the area 's अर्थव्यवस्था and reputation.
Mountain and lake scenery are आकर्षण throughout the year.
The Nevada पक्ष भी includes विशाल कसीनो.
राजमार्गों provide year-round अभिगम from Reno, कार्सन नगर, और Sacramento.
पेज 1 of the Twenty-seventh Amendment 's certification in the National अभिलेख
पेज 2 of the amendment 's प्रमाणन
Page 3 of the amendment 's certification
The Twenty-seventh Amendment ( Amendment XXVII ) prohibits any law that increases or decreases the salary of सदस्यों of the कॉंग्रेस इससे taking effect until the start of the next नियत of terms of दफ्तर लिये प्रतिनिधि.
it is the सबसे recent amendment to the United राज्य Constitution.
It थी submitted to the राज्य for अनुसमर्थन in 1789 and थी adopted in 1992.
“First they आए... ” is a famous बयान and provocative poem attributed to pastor Martin niemöller ( 1892–1984 ) परिचय the sloth of German intellectuals following the nazis ' वृद्धि to शक्ति और the subsequent purging of उनके chosen लक्ष्य, समूह बाद group.
There is कुछ असहमति over the सटीक wording of the quotation and जब it was निर्मित ; the सामग्री of the quotation may have महरूम presented differently by Niemöller on अलग अवसरों.
This सूची of आइलैंड्स by area includes सब islands in the संसार वृहद than 2,500 km2 ( ) and अनेक अन्य आइलैंड्स over 500 km2 ( ), sorted in descending order by area.
For comparison, महाद्वीपों हैं also shown.
Four Thirds लोगो
The चार तिहाई प्रणाली is a standard created by ओलम्पस and कोडक for डिजिटल single-lens reflex camera ( DSLR ) design and development. < ref name='DPReview.com 2001-02-13 ' >
The system provides a मानक कि, with digital cameras और lenses available इससे अनेक manufacturers, allows for the इंटरचेंज of lenses और लाशें इससे different manufacturers.
seems to कवर the standard.
Proponents describe it as an खोलें standard, but companies may तभी उपयोग it under a non-disclosure अनुबंध.
नापसंद older SLR प्रणालियों, चार Thirds has been designed from the मैदान up to be entirely digital.
अनेक lenses are extensively computerized, to the point that Olympus offers फर्मवेयर अद्यतन for many of उन्हें.
Lens डिज़ाइन has महरूम tailored to the requirements of डिजिटल sensors, most notably through telecentric डिजाइन.
the आकार of the सेंसर is significantly छोटी than for most DSLRs और this implies that lenses, especially telephoto lenses, can be छोटी.
लिये example, a Four Thirds lens साथ a 300 mm focal length होता कवर परिचय the same angle of view as a 600 mm focal लंबाई lens for the 35 mm फिल्मी मानक, and is correspondingly more compact.
यूँ, the Four Thirds System has crop factor ( फोकल length multiplier ) of परिचय 2, और while this enables longer फोकल length for वृहद magnification, it करता n't aid the manufacture of wide कोण lenses.
The चित्र sensor format, generally इंटरमीडिएट between those of larger slrs and छोटी compact cameras, generally gives levels of लागत, प्रदर्शन और convenience intermediate between those two वर्ग.
HVAC प्रणालियों use वेंटिलेशन air ducts installed throughout a building to supply conditioned air to a रूम through आउटलेट vents, called diffusers ; और ducts to हटाएँ एयर through return-air grilles.
HVAC ( heating, ventilation, and air कंडीशनिंग ) is the technology of indoor और automotive पर्यावरणीय सुकून.
hvac प्रणाली डिज़ाइन is a subdiscipline of mechanical engineering, आधारित on the principles of ऊष्मागतिकी, fluid यांत्रिकी, और heat transfer.
Refrigeration is sometimes added to the फ़ील्ड 's संक्षिप्त as HVAC & R or HVACR, or ventilating is dropped as in hacr ( ऐसे as the designation of HACR-rated सर्किट ब्रेकर्स ).
HVAC is important in the डिज़ाइन of मीडियम to विशाल industrial और दफ्तर buildings ऐसे as skyscrapers और in marine environments such as aquariums, where safe and स्वस्थ building शर्तें are regulated with respect to temperature and आर्द्रता, using भैस air from outdoors.
Ventilation on the downdraught system, by impulsion, or the 'plenum ' principle, applied to schoolrooms ( 1899 )
Heating, ventilating, and air कंडीशनिंग is based on आविष्कारों and discoveries made by Nikolay Lvov, Michael Faraday, Willis Carrier, Reuben Trane, जेम्स जूल, William rankine, sadi carnot, और अनेक others.
the आविष्कार of the components of HVAC प्रणालियों went hand-in-hand साथ the industrial revolution, and new methods of modernization, higher दक्षता, and system कंट्रोल are constantly introduced by कंपनियाँ और आविष्कारक worldwide.
the three central कृत्यों of heating, ventilating, and air-conditioning हैं interrelated, विशेषकर साथ the need to provide thermal comfort और acceptable indoor एयर quality भीतर reasonable installation, operation, और maintenance costs.
HVAC systems can provide वेंटिलेशन, reduce एयर infiltration, और maintain pressure संबंध between spaces.
The means of air डिलीवरी and हटाना from स्पेसेस is known as रूम air वितरण.
the starting point in carrying आउट an estimate both लिये कूलिंग and हीटिंग depends on the exterior climate और interior specified शर्तें.
However before taking up the heat load calculation, it is necessary to ढूँढें fresh एयर आवश्यकताएँ for each क्षेत्रफल in विवरण, as pressurization is an important consideration.
in modern इमारतें the design, संस्थापना, and कंट्रोल प्रणालियों of ये कृत्यों हैं एकीकृत into एक or अधिक HVAC systems.
For very छोटी इमारतें, contractors normally capacity इंजीनियर और चुनें HVAC systems और उपकरण.
For larger इमारतें, भवन सेवाएं designers and engineers, ऐसे as mechanical, architectural, or building services engineers analyze, design, and specify the HVAC प्रणालियों, and specialty mechanical ठेकेदारों fabricate और आयोग उन्हें.
Building permits and code-compliance inspections of the installations हैं normally जरूरी for all sizes of buildings.
the HVAC industry is a worldwide enterprise, with roles including operation और maintenance, प्रणाली design और construction, equipment manufacturing and sales, और in education और शोध.
the HVAC उद्योग was historically regulated by the manufacturers of HVAC equipment, लकिन regulating और मानकों संगठन such as HARDI, ASHRAE, SMACNA, ACCA, वर्दी Mechanical कोड, International mechanical Code, and AMCA have महरूम established to support the industry and प्रोत्साहित high standards and उपलब्धि.
Royal Navy कमांडर James बंध, CMG, RNVR, is a fictional अक्षर created by British पत्रकार और उपन्यासकार Ian Fleming in 1953.
he is the protagonist of the जेम्स Bond series of novels, films, comics and video games.
फ्लेमिंग wrote twelve बंध novels और two short स्टोरी संग्रहण before उसके मौत, although the पिछला दो books— The Man with the Golden Gun and Octopussy and The Living daylights —were published मरणोपरांत.
The बंध character is a Secret Service agent, code number 007, residing in London लकिन क्रियाशील internationally.
Bond थी a कम्पोजिट character जो थी आधारित on a number of कमांडो जिसको Fleming knew दौरान उसके सेवा in the Naval Intelligence प्रभाग during संसार War II, to whom Fleming added उसके अपना style और a number of उसके own tastes ; Bond 's name was appropriated from अमरीकी ornithologist James Bond.
बंध has a number of अक्षर traits which run throughout the books, including an enjoyment of cars, a love of खाना and drink, and an average intake of sixty custom-made cigarettes a day.
चूंकि Fleming 's मौत in 1964, there have been other authorised writers of बंध material, including जॉन Gardner, who लिखा fourteen novels और दो novelizations और Raymond Benson, जो लिखा छह novels, three novelizations and तीन short stories.
There have भी been तीन authors who लिखा one किताब each, Kingsley Amis ( writing as Robert markham ), Sebastian Faulks and Jeffery deaver.
additionally a श्रेणी of novels आधारित on बंध 's youth— Young Bond —was written by चार्ली Higson.
As spin-offs from the साहित्यिक works, there was a television adaptation of the first novel, Casino Royale, in which Bond was निभाई as an American एजेंट.
a comic strip series भी भागा in the Daily Express newspaper.
There have also महरूम twenty-five बंध films ; seven अभिनेताओं have played Bond in these films.
`` प्रकृति Boy '' is a सोंग by ईडन Ahbez, published in 1947.
the सोंग tells a काल्पनिक of a `` अजीब enchanted लड़के... जो wandered बहुत दूर '' तभी to learn कि `` the greatest thing... was just to प्रेम and be loved in return ''.
nat King कोल 's 1948 रिकॉर्डिंग of the सोंग was a major hit और `` प्रकृति लड़के '' has since become a पॉप and जैज़ standard, with दर्जनों of major artists interpreting the सोंग.
Louisiana ( or ;, ; louisiana Creole : léta de la Lwizyàn ) is a राज्य located in the southern region of the United राज्य of America.
Louisiana is the 31st सबसे extensive and the 25th most populous of the 50 संयुक्त States.
Its पूंजी is Baton Rouge और largest city is New ऑरलियन्स.
louisiana is the only राज्य in the u.S. साथ political subdivisions termed parishes, which are local सरकारी 's equivalent to counties.
The largest parish by population is ईस्ट Baton Rouge Parish, और the largest by land area is cameron Parish.
Much of the राज्य 's lands were formed from sediment washed down the मिसिसिपी River, leaving विशाल deltas and vast areas of तटीय दलदल and swamp.
These contain a समृद्ध southern biota ; typical examples शामिल पक्षियों ऐसे as ibis और egrets.
There are also many species of पेड़ frogs, and fish such as sturgeon and paddlefish.
in more elevated क्षेत्रों, fire is a natural process in the लैंडस्केप, and has produced extensive areas of longleaf pine वन और wet savannas.
These support an exceptional विशाल number of plant species, including many प्रजाति of orchids और carnivorous plants.
Some Louisiana शहरी environments have a multicultural, बहुभाषी heritage, होने so strongly influenced by an admixture of 18th-century French, Spanish, देशी अमरीकी ( Indian ) and अफ़्रीकी cultures कि they are माना to be somewhat exceptional in the U.S.
पहले the American purchase of the territory, the current Louisiana राज्य had महरूम both a स्पेनी and French colony.
In जोड, the pattern of विकास included importing numerous अफ़्रीकी slaves in the 18th century, with many इससे the same region of West Africa, thus concentrating उनके संस्कृति.
In the post-civil युद्ध environment, Anglo-Americans increased the pressure for Anglicization, और in 1915, English थी बना the तभी official भाषा of the state.
Women 's अधिकारों are the अधिकारों और entitlements claimed for महिलाओं और girls of अनेक societies worldwide.
In कुछ places these अधिकारों हैं institutionalized or supported by law, local कस्टम, और behaviour, whereas in others वे may be ignored or suppressed.
They differ from broader notions of इंसान अधिकारों through दावा of an inherent historical और traditional bias against the कसरत of अधिकारों by महिलाओं and लड़कियों in favour of men और boys.
मुद्दे commonly associated साथ notions of women 's अधिकारों include, though हैं नहीं सीमित to, the सही : to bodily अखंडता and autonomy ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to hold public office ; to work ; to fair wages or बराबर pay ; to own property ; to शिक्षा ; to serve in the सैन्य or be conscripted ; to डालें into legal contracts ; और to have marital, parental and religious अधिकारों.
the laws of विज्ञान or scientific कानून are statements that describe, भविष्यवाणी, and शायद explain क्यों, a दायरा of phenomena behave as they appear to in nature.
the term `` विधि '' has diverse usage in many cases : approximate, सटीक, व्यापक or सीमित theories, in all natural वैज्ञानिक disciplines ( भौतिकी, रसायन, biology, geology, astronomy इत्यादि. ).
An analogous पद for a scientific विधि is a principle.
Scientific laws:
summarize a large collection of facts determined by experiment into a single statement,
can usually be formulated mathematically as एक or अनेक statements or समीकरण, or at least stated in a single sentence, so that it can be used to भविष्यवाणी the निष्कर्ष of an experiment, दिए the initial, boundary, और other शारीरिक conditions of the processes which लो place,
हैं strongly समर्थित by अनुभवजन्य evidence - वे are वैज्ञानिक knowledge that experiments have repeatedly verified ( and never falsified ).
उनके सटीकता does नहीं बदलें जब नई theories are worked out, but rather the पैमाना of application, चूंकि the equation ( if any ) representing the law करता not change.
As साथ other scientific knowledge, वे do नहीं have absolute certainty like mathematical theorems or identities, और it is सदा possible लिये a विधि to be विकल by भविष्य observations.
हैं प्रायः quoted as a आधारभूत controlling influence बल्कि than a description of observed तथ्य.
i.e. `` the laws of गति require that ''
Laws differ from hypotheses और postulates, which हैं proposed during the scientific process before और दौरान validation by experiment and observation.
These are नहीं laws since they have not महरूम सत्यापित to the वही degree and may not be sufficiently सामान्य, हालांकि they may lead to the formulation of कानून.
a विधि is a अधिक solidified and formal बयान, distilled इससे दोहराया experiment.
हालांकि the अवधारणाओं of a law or principle in nature is borderline to दर्शनशास्त्र, and presents the गहराई to which गणित can describe nature, वैज्ञानिक laws are माना इससे a scientific perspective और follow the scientific method ; they `` serve उनके purpose '' rather than `` questioning reality '' ( philosophical ) or `` statements of logical absolution '' ( mathematical ).
For example, whether a विधि `` refers to reality '' is a philosophical issue, बल्कि than वैज्ञानिक.
fundamentally, all scientific laws follow from physics, कानून which occur in other sciences ultimately follow from physical laws.
Often, from mathematically fundamental viewpoints, सार्वभौमिक constants emerge इससे scientific कानून.
the लॉन्च of the PlayStation 3 into the Japanese market on 10 November 2006 marked the second major सातवाँ generation entertainment system to be released.
The system was released seven days later on 17 नवम्बर in the United States.
Introduction into other world बाज़ार was delayed by a shortage of diodes लिये use in the Blu-ray डिस्क खिलाड़ी ; the यंत्र थी शुभारम्भ in यूरोपीय और other world markets in the first हाफ of 2007.
लॉरेन fenmore baldwin ( formerly विलियम्स and Grainger ) is a fictional character from the CBS soap operas The Young और the Restless और The बिंदास and the खूबसूरत, portrayed by ट्रेसी E. Bregman.
वो made her debut दौरान the एपीसोड airing on January 21, 1983.
In 1992, bregman began बनाना sporadic दिखावे on The बिंदास and the Beautiful, later resulting in the अक्षर migrating there fully in 1995.
following a अतिथि रूप in 2000, bregman returned to The यंग और the Restless on August 24, 2001, remaining on पुनरावर्ती औकात.
In 2013, it was announced that Bregman था been placed on contract.
Much of Lauren 's history has revolved around उसके romances with Paul Williams, स्कॉट grainger, sr., and Michael Baldwin among many अन्य causing a fierce फंसने with Traci Abbott Connolly.
लॉरेन is भी famous लिये her long, violent rivalry with Sheila Carter.
The 2010 NBA Finals थी the National Basketball Association ( NBA ) चैंपियनशिप series लिये the 2009–10 season.
The best-of-seven playoff was लडे between the Los Angeles लेकर्स, champions of the Western सम्मेलन and defending NBA champions, और the बोस्टन सेल्टिक्स, champions of the पूर्वी Conference.
The लेकर्स defeated the Celtics, four games to three, to win the franchise 's 16th NBA championship.
The 64th edition of the championship series was निभाई between June 3 and जून 17, was broadcast on ABC, and was watched by an औसत of 18.1 million people.
The सेल्टिक्स earned their berth into the playoffs by winning the Atlantic प्रभाग.
The लेकर्स won the प्रशांत Division to earn उनके berth.
The Celtics reached the एनबीए फाइनल by defeating the Miami Heat in the best-of-seven पूर्वी Conference पहला गोलाकार, the Cleveland Cavaliers in the best-of-seven पूर्वी Conference Semifinals, और defending Eastern सम्मेलन चैंपियन ऑरलैंडो Magic in the best-of-seven Eastern सम्मेलन Finals.
The Lakers reached the एनबीए Finals by defeating the ओक्लाहोमा City Thunder in the best-of-seven पश्चिमी सम्मेलन First गोलाकार, the Utah Jazz in the best-of-seven Western Conference Semifinals, and the Phoenix Suns in the best-of-seven Western सम्मेलन फाइनल.
The NBA Finals were अनुसूचित in the Major League Baseball World श्रेणी 2–3–2 सात game format, साथ the लेकर्स possessing home-court advantage as a reward for finishing with better regular ऋतु रिकार्ड than the Celtics.
दोहराया baskets इससे starters Kobe ब्रायंट, pau Gasol, and Ron Artest brought the Lakers बंद to victory in Game 1.
a record breaking performance from Ray एलन 's eight three-point baskets ensured the सेल्टिक्स a Game 2 triumph.
डेरेक फिशर ’s 11 points in the fourth क्वार्टर helped the Lakers win Game 3.
The सेल्टिक्स won Game 4 ; it did n't ठेस कि वे netted an बेहतरीन performance in baskets by the team’s reserves, while पॉल Pierce led the team to a Game 5 win with 27 अंक on 57 % शूटिंग इससे the मंजिल.
the लेकर्स avoided elimination by जीतना a decisive Game 6 with 24 अंक contributed by their bench.
Although they trailed the सेल्टिक्स by 13 अंक early in the third क्वार्टर, the Lakers rallied and won उनके second consecutive चैंपियनशिप by taking over an exciting खेल 7 aided by लेट contributions on offense by Pau gasol और artest and rebounding.
Bryant थी named सबसे Valuable Player of the फाइनल for his second लगातार ट्रॉफी.
This थी the first एनबीए Finals to go the full seven games चूंकि and only the fourth since the NBA फाइनल returned to a 2–3–2 format in.
The laker franchise has 16 NBA Championships ( Five in मिनियापोलिस, 11 in लॉस एंजिल्स ) trailing the सेल्टिक्स ' सत्रह championships.
the एनबीए Finals used the `` World श्रेणी '' Format in 1949 Minneapolis Lakers पराजित the Washington Capitols 4 खेल to 2 ; in 1953 Minneapolis पराजित the New यॉर्क knicks 4 खेल to 1 ; in 1954 मिनियापोलिस defeated the syracuse Nationals 4 games to 3 ; और in 1955 Syracuse Nationals defeated the Fort वेन Pistons 4 खेल to 3.
the NBA would वापसी to the 2–2–1–1–1 National Hockey League seven खेल series format until 1985.
Black pepper ( पाइपर nigrum ) is a flowering vine in the परिवार Piperaceae, cultivated लिये its फल, जिससे is प्रायः सूखी and प्रयुक्त as a मसाला और seasoning.
The फल, ज्ञात as a peppercorn जब सूखी, is approximately in diameter, dark red when fully वयस्क, and, like all drupes, contains a single seed.
peppercorns, और the ground pepper derived from them, may be वर्णित बस as pepper, or more precisely as black pepper ( पकाया and सूखी unripe फल ), green pepper ( सूखी unripe fruit ) and श्वेत pepper ( dried ripe seeds ).
Black pepper is native to south India, and is extensively cultivated there and elsewhere in तीव्र regions.
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest producer and निर्यातक of pepper, producing 34 % of the संसार 's पाइपर nigrum crop as of 2008.
सूखी मैदान pepper रै been used since प्राचीनता for both इसके फ्लेवर and as a medicine.
Black pepper is the world 's सबसे traded spice.
It is one of the सबसे आम spices added to European भोजन और its descendants.
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the रासायनिक piperine, नहीं to be confused with the capsaicin कि देता fleshy मिर्च theirs.
It is in the modern संसार, often युग्म with salt.
in cardiovascular physiology, ejection fraction ( EF ) represents the volumetric fraction of blood pumped आउट of the ventricle ( दिल ) with प्रत्येक heart ताल or cardiac cycle.
it can be applied to either the right ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary circulation or the बाएँ ventricle जिससे ejects via the aortic valve into the systemic परिसंचरण.
इमेजिंग of the physiology of the mammalian heart is the art that allows meaningful mathematical अभिव्यक्ति defining ef.
noninvasive हृदय इमेजिंग रै become a worldwide utility enabling study of cardiac performance reproducibly and inexpensively.
Simplified, Ejection भिन्न is a mathematical product allowed by cardiac इमेजिंग.
As a mathematical term, Ejection भिन्न is an extension of the work of एडाल्फ Fick in cardiac आउटपुट.
समर्पित technology such as Echocardiography, Computed Tomography, Magnetic Resonance इमेजिंग and muga scanning have definitively allowed clinically relevant गणित regarding Ischemia, जन्मजात दिल Disease और Heart Failure.
The prosecutor is the मुख्य legal representative of the अभियोजन in countries with either the common विधि adversarial प्रणाली, or the सिविल विधि inquisitorial system.
the prosecution is the legal पार्टी responsible for presenting the case in a criminal trial विरूद्ध an व्यक्तिगत अभियुक्त of तोड़कर the law.
स्ट्रॉबेरी shortcake सबसे commonly means a dessert in the shortcake family of cakes.
स्ट्रॉबेरी shortcake may also refer to:
Strawberry Shortcake, a अक्षर and franchise created by अमरीकी Greetings
the shortened title of स्ट्रॉबेरी on the Shortcake, a जापानी romance movie.
abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad इब्न ʿAbd allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib ibn Hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 June 632 ), also transliterated as Muhammad ( ), was a धार्मिक, राजनैतिक, and सैन्य नेता from Mecca जो unified Arabia into a single धार्मिक polity under Islam.
he is believed by Muslims and bahá'ís to be a messenger and prophet of God.
Muhammad is almost universally considered by Muslims as the last नबी sent by God for mankind.
Non-Muslims regard मुहम्मद as the संस्थापक of Islam.
मुसलमान consider him to be the restorer of an unaltered original monotheistic faith of आदम, नूह, Abraham, मूसा, यीशु, और other prophets.
born in परिचय 570 CE in the Arabian city of Mecca, he was orphaned at an early age और brought up under the परवाह of his uncle Abu तालिब.
He later worked ज़्यादातर as a व्यापारी, as खूब as a गड़रिये, and was first married by age 25.
Being in the आदत of periodically retreating to a गुफा in the surrounding kyu लिये अनेक नाइट्स of seclusion and दुआ, he बाद reported that it थी वहीँ, at आयु 40, that he received his first revelation from God.
Three years after इस event Muhammad started उपदेश ये revelations publicly, proclaiming that `` God is One ``, that पूरा `` surrender '' to Him ( lit.
islām ) is the तभी way ( dīn ) acceptable to God, and that he himself थी a prophet and मेसेंजर of God, in the same vein as अन्य Islamic नबियों.
मुहम्मद gained few अनुसरणकर्ता early on, and थी met साथ दुश्मनी from कुछ Meccan जनजातियों ; he and his followers were treated harshly.
to escape persecution, मुहम्मद भेजा कुछ of his अनुसरणकर्ता to अबीसीनिया पहले he and उसके अनुसरणकर्ता in Mecca migrated to Medina ( तब known as yathrib ) in the साल 622.
This event, the Hijra, marks the beginning of the इस्लामी पंचांग, जिससे is भी ज्ञात as the Hijri पंचांग.
in Medina, Muhammad united the tribes अंतर्गत the Constitution of मदीना.
बाद eight years of लड़ with the meccan जनजातियों, his followers, who by तब था grown to 10,000, took control of मक्का in the largely peaceful conquest of मक्का.
He destroyed the pagan idols in the city and then भेजा उसके अनुसरणकर्ता आउट to नष्ट all of the बाकी pagan temples in Eastern अरब.
In 632, a few months बाद returning to Medina इससे The Farewell यात्राएं, Muhammad गिरी बीमार और died.
by the time of his death, most of the arabian Peninsula had परिवर्तित to islam, and he had united अरब into a single Muslim religious polity.
The revelations ( or ayah, lit.
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — which Muhammad reported receiving until उसके death – form the verses of the Quran, regarded by मुसलमान as the `` शब्द of God '' और around जिससे the religion is आधारित.
besides the Quran, Muhammad 's life ( sira ) और परंपराओं ( sunnah ) are also upheld by Muslims as the स्त्रोत of शरीयत law.
They discuss Muhammad and other prophets of islam साथ reverence, adding the phrase peace be upon him whenever their names are mentioned.
While conceptions of Muhammad in मध्यकालीन Christendom and premodern times were largely negative, appraisals in modern इतिहास have महरूम far less so.
The Great किताबे ( second संस्करण )
Great किताबे of the Western World is a श्रेणी of किताबे originally प्रकाशित in the संयुक्त राज्य in 1952 by Encyclopædia विश्वकोष Inc. to उपस्थित the Great किताबे in a सिंगल package of 54 volumes.
The series is now in its second edition और contains 60 volumes.
The original editors of the श्रेणी chose तीन criteria for समावेश : a book must be प्रासंगिक to समकालीन issues, और not तभी important in इसके ऐतिहासिक context ; it must reward rereading ; and it जरूर be a part of `` the great conversation about the great विचार, '' relevant to at least 25 of the 102 ग्रेट ideas identified by the editors.
Books were नहीं chosen on the आधार of ethnic or cultural inclusiveness, ऐतिहासिक influence, or the editors ' अनुबंध with the दृश्य expressed.
`` Cocaine '' is a सोंग written और recorded by jj Cale in 1976, but also ज्ञात as a cover संस्करण recorded by Eric क्लैप्टन.
allmusic calls the latter `` among [ Clapton 's ] सबसे enduringly popular हिट्स '' and notes कि `` भी for an artist जैसे क्लैप्टन with a huge body of high-quality work, 'Cocaine ' ranks among उसके best. ''
glyn जॉन्स, who था previously worked साथ The जो, Led Zeppelin and The Rolling Stones, produced the क्लैप्टन रिकॉर्डिंग, which थी released on Clapton 's 1977 album slowhand और as a सिंगल in 1980.
The live संस्करण of `` Cocaine '', from the Just One Night एल्बम recorded in Tokyo, charted on the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 as the b-side of `` Tulsa Time ``, which थी a No. 30 hit in 1980. ``
कोका '' was एक of अनेक of cale 's songs recorded by Clapton, सहित `` After Midnight `` और `` Travelin ' लाइट ''.
the आक्रमण on Pearl हार्बर ( called हवाई Operation or Operation AI by the जापानी Imperial General Headquarters ( आपरेशन Z in नियोजन ) and the बैटल of Pearl हार्बर ) was a surprise सैन्य स्ट्राइक conducted by the इम्पीरियल Japanese नेवी विरूद्ध the United States naval base at पर्ल हार्बर, Hawaii, on the morning of December 7, 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ).
From the standpoint of the defenders, the attack commenced at 7:48 a.m. Hawaiian Time.
The आक्रमण was intended as a निवारक कार्रवाई in order to keep the U.S. Pacific बेड़े इससे interfering साथ military actions the Empire of जापानी थी planning in southeast एशिया विरूद्ध overseas territories of the संयुक्त Kingdom, the Netherlands, and the United States.
the आधार was attacked by 353 Japanese fighters, बमवर्षक and torpedo planes in two waves, launched from छह aircraft carriers.
All eight U.S. Navy battleships were damaged, with चार होने sunk.
Two of these यहूद later raised, और with the बाकी चार repaired, six battleships returned to service later in the war.
The जापानी also sank or damaged three cruisers, तीन destroyers, an anti-aircraft training ship, और एक minelayer.
188 U.S. वायुयान were destroyed ; 2,402 अमेरिकी यहूद मारे and 1,282 wounded.
महत्वपूर्ण base installations such as the शक्ति station, डॉकयार्ड, maintenance, और ईंधन and torpedo भंडार facilities, as well as the submarine piers और headquarters building ( भी घर of the intelligence section ) यहूद not attacked.
Japanese losses were लाइट : 29 aircraft and पाँच midget submarines lost, and 65 servicemen killed or wounded.
One Japanese sailor थी captured.
the आक्रमण आए as a profound shock to the American people और led directly to the American entry into World War ii in both the Pacific and European theaters.
The following दिन ( December 8 ), the संयुक्त राज्य declared war on Japan.
Domestic support लिये non-interventionism, which had महरूम strong, disappeared.
Clandestine support of ब्रिटेन ( for example the Neutrality Patrol ) थी replaced by active alliance.
Subsequent परिचालन by the U.S. prompted Germany and Italy to declare युद्ध on the u.S. on December 11, which थी reciprocated by the U.S. the वही day.
There were numerous ऐतिहासिक precedents लिये unannounced military action by जापानी.
however, the lack of any औपचारिक warning, particularly while negotiations यहूद still apparently ongoing, led President Franklin D. Roosevelt to proclaim December 7, 1941, `` a तिथि which होगा सजीव in infamy ``.
Project Runway ऋतु 2 थी the second ऋतु of Bravo 's successful Project रनवे, a reality competition for fashion designers.
Season 2 began airing on December 7, 2005.
Following a nationwide ढूंढें earlier in the साल, sixteen designers were चुनी as semi-finalists and brought to नई यॉर्क City in June, 2005.
After the first चुनौती, called `` सड़क to the Runway '', fourteen went on to compete as finalists.
The winning designer, क्लो Dao, received $ 100,000 in seed money to help launch उसके own line, a 2007 Saturn Sky roadster, a spread in ELLE पत्रिका, and a mentorship with the Banana गणतंत्र डिज़ाइन Team.
Winning alongside Dao थी उसके model, Grace Kelsey, जो received the ELLE Magazine spread.
Michael kors and नीना Garcia returned as judges लिये the दूसरी ऋतु.
the चौथी judging seat rotated प्रत्येक week, based on the चुनौती.
टिम Gunn, fashion chair at Parsons The New School for डिज़ाइन, returned as a mentor for the designers.
Kara Janx बाद appeared in प्रोजेक्ट Runway : All सितारों in 2012, where she finished 7th आउट of 13.
andrae Gonzalo, in the same year, competed in the second season of the All सितारों संस्करण placing 10th out of 13.
An example of a heraclius mule
in numismatics, a mule is a सिक्का or पदक minted साथ obverse and reverse डिजाइन not सामान्यतः seen on the वही piece.
These can be intentional or उत्पादित by error.
इस type of error is highly sought after, और उदाहरण can fetch steep कीमतें इससे collectors.
The earliest mules are found among प्राचीन यूनानी and रोमन सिक्के.
Opinion is विभाजित between those who think कि वे हैं आकस्मिक, the result of an incorrect संयोजन of a new die with one that था officially been withdrawn इससे उपयोग, or the कार्य of coiners working साथ dies stolen from an official मिंट, perhaps at a time जब one of उन्हें should have been नष्ट.
The नाम गर्भाशयी from the mule, the hybrid offspring of a horse and a गधा, due to ऐसे a सिक्का having two पहलू intended for अलग coins, much as a mule has अभिभावक of two अलग प्रजाति.
इस पेज दस्तावेज़ the tornadoes and tornado outbreaks of 2010.
the बहुमत of tornadoes form in the U.S., but वे can occur almost anywhere under the सही conditions.
A lesser number occur बाहर the U.S., most notably in parts of neighboring दक्षिणी Canada दौरान the उत्तरी Hemisphere 's summer ऋतु, but are also ज्ञात in South America, Europe, एशिया, और Australia.
There were 1,531 tornadoes reported in the संयुक्त States in 2010 ( of which at least 1,266 यहूद confirmed ), with 45 पुष्टि fatalities.
elsewhere in the संसार, 11 people यहूद killed in tornadoes, six in अर्जेंटीना, three in the बहामा, one in Bangladesh, and one in Germany.
The year was near average for tornadoes despite an extremely quiet early spring period, however such बदला बाद a विशाल upswing starting in लेट April और a व्यस्त late वसन्त और summer period.
the autumn months were थोड़ा above average.
a lymphocyte is a प्रकार of white blood कोशिका in the vertebrate immune system.
Under the सूक्ष्मदर्शी, lymphocytes can be विभाजित into विशाल lymphocytes and छोटी lymphocytes.
Large granular lymphocytes include प्राकृतिक killer cells ( NK कोशिकाएं ).
छोटी lymphocytes consist of t cells and b कोशिकाएं.
Windows powershell is microsoft 's task automation framework, consisting of a command-line shell and associated scripting language built on.NET Framework.
powershell provides पूरा access to com और wmi, enabling administrators to perform administrative कार्य on both local and remote Windows systems.
in PowerShell, प्रशासनिक कार्य are generally performed by cmdlets ( सुनाया command-lets ), which are specialized.NET classes implementing a particular आपरेशन.
Sets of cmdlets may be संयुक्त together in scripts, executables ( which are स्टैंडअलोन applications ), or by instantiating regular.NET classes ( or wmi/com Objects ).
These कार्य by accessing data in different आंकड़ा stores, जैसे the filesystem or registry, जिससे are made उपलब्धियाँ to the powershell runtime via खिड़कियाँ powershell प्रदाताओं.
खिड़कियाँ PowerShell also provides a होस्टिंग API साथ which the खिड़कियाँ PowerShell runtime can be अंतःस्थापित inside other applications.
These applications can then उपयोग खिड़कियाँ powershell कार्यक्षमता to implement certain परिचालन, including those उजागर via the आलेखीय interface.
इस capability has महरूम used by Microsoft एक्सचेंज Server 2007 to expose its प्रबन्धन कार्यक्षमता as PowerShell cmdlets and प्रदाताओं और implement the graphical प्रबन्धन tools as powershell होस्ट which invoke the necessary cmdlets.
अन्य Microsoft applications सहित Microsoft एसक्यूएल Server 2008 भी expose उनके प्रबन्धन इंटरफ़ेस via PowerShell cmdlets.
With powershell, graphical interface-based management applications on खिड़कियाँ are परतदार on top of Windows PowerShell.
A PowerShell scripting interface for खिड़कियाँ products is mandated by the आम Engineering मापदण्ड.
Windows powershell शामिल इसके अपना extensive, console-based help, similar to man पृष्ठों in Unix shells, via the Get-Help cmdlet.
मरियम Poppins is a 1964 musical film अभिनीत Julie एंड्रयूज, Dick वैन dyke, दाउद tomlinson, and Glynis Johns, उत्पादित by Walt डिज़्नी, और based on the Mary poppins books series by P. L. ट्रेवर्स.
The फिल्मी थी निर्देशित by Robert stevenson and written by विधेयक वाल्श और डॉन DaGradi, साथ songs by the Sherman भाइयो.
It was शॉट at Walt Disney Studios in Burbank, California.
Julie Andrews won the अकादमी Award लिये बेहतरीन Actress for her performance as Mary poppins और the film also जीती Oscars लिये Best Film Editing, असली Music स्कोर, Best Song लिये `` Chim chim Cher-ee '' and Best विज़ुअल प्रभाव, and प्राप्त a total of 13 nominations.
A story चाप is an विस्तारित or continuing कथानक in episodic storytelling मीडिया ऐसे as टेलीविज़न, comic किताबे, comic स्ट्रिप्स, boardgames, वीडियो games, और in some cases, films.
On a television program, for example, the story होता unfold over अनेक episodes.
in टेलीविज़न, the use of the story चाप is much more common in dramas than in comedies, विशेषकर in soap operas.
Webcomics हैं अधिक likely to use स्टोरी arcs than newspaper comics, as most वेब comics have पठनीय अभिलेख ऑनलाइन कि a newcomer to the strip can read in अनुक्रम to समझे कया is going on.
Although story arcs have existed लिये decades, the term `` स्टोरी arc '' was coined in 1988 in संबंध to the टेलीविज़न श्रेणी Wiseguy, और was quickly adapted for अन्य उपयोग.
अनेक American comic book श्रेणी are now लिखा in four or six-issue arcs, भीतर a continuing series.
Short story arcs हैं easier to package as व्यापार paperbacks लिये resale, and more accessible to the casual reader than the never-ending निरंतरता कि once characterised comics.
ब्लैक Friday is the day following Thanksgiving Day in the United राज्य, often regarded as the beginning of the Christmas shopping season.
In recent years, सबसे major retailers have opened अत्यधिक जल्दी और offered promotional बिक्री to kick बंद the holiday shopping season, similar to मुक्केबाज़ी Day बिक्री in many Commonwealth Nations.
Black Friday is नहीं an आधिकारिक public holiday as such, but many non-retail कर्मचारी और स्कूलों have दोनो थैंक्सगिविंग और the दिन after off, followed by a वीकेंड, thereby increasing the number of potential shoppers.
It has routinely been the busiest खरीदारी दिन of the year since 2005, हालांकि न्यूज reports, which at कि समय were inaccurate, have described it as the busiest shopping day of the साल for a much longer काल of time.
The दिन 's नाम originated in Philadelphia, where it originally थी used to describe the भारी and विघटनकारी pedestrian और गाडी ट्रैफ़िक जिससे होता occur on the day after Thanksgiving.
Use of the पद started पहले 1961 और began to see broader use outside Philadelphia around 1975.
Later an वैकल्पिक explanation began to be offered : that `` Black शुक्रवार '' indicates the पाइंट at जिससे retailers begin to turn a profit, or are `` ''.
For many सालो, it was आम लिये रिटेलर to खोलें at 6:00 a.m., लकिन in the late 2000s many had crept to 5:00 or even 4:00.
This was taken to a new चरम in 2011, when अनेक retailers ( सहित निशाना, Kohl 's, Macy 's, Best ख़रीदे, and bealls ) खोली at मध्यरात्रि for the पहला time.
in 2012, walmart and several other retailers announced that they होता खोलें most of उनके स्टोर्स at 8:00 p.m. on थैंक्सगिविंग दिन ( मगर in राज्य where खोलने on Thanksgiving is prohibited due to ब्लू laws, such as Massachusetts where वे still खोली around midnight ), prompting calls लिये a walkout among some workers.
Black शुक्रवार shopping is known लिये attracting aggressive crowds, with annual reports of assaults, shootings, and throngs of people trampling on other shoppers in an attempt to मिलेंगी the बेहतरीन सौदे on a उत्पाद before आपूर्तियाँ run आउट.
The Family कि Preys is a 2008 अमरीकी फिल्म drama written, उत्पादित, और निर्देशित by Tyler Perry.
The screenplay focuses on दो families, one wealthy और the अन्य working क्लास, whose lives are intertwined in both प्रेम और business.
The movie is the second of four in which Perry 's signature character, madea, does not make an appearance.
It is also the दूसरी perry-directed फिल्मी ( alongside पापा 's Little Girls ) that is not based on any of the फिल्मकार 's स्टेज plays.
Net 10, जाल 15, Net 30 and जाल 60 ( also जाल 10 days, et al ) are forms of trade क्रेडिट जिससे बताएँ कि the net amount ( the total बकाया on the चालान ) is अपेक्षित to be सशुल्क in पूरा और received by the विक्रेता within 10, 15, 30 or 60 days बाद the goods are dispatched or सेवा is समाप्त.
जाल 30 or जाल 60 terms are प्रायः coupled साथ a credit लिये early भुगतान.
the शब्द net in इस sense अर्थात् `` total बाद सब discounts. ''
It originally गर्भाशयी from the Latin nitere ( to चमक ) और nitidus ( elegant, trim ), और more recently from the फ्रेंच net ( शार्प, neat, clean ).
roadtown, Tortola
The British वेस्ट इंडीज were the islands in and around the Caribbean that यहूद part of the British साम्राज्य.
In 1912, the अंग्रेजों West इंडीज were विभाजित into eight colonies : The बहामा, बारबाडोस, अंग्रेजों guiana, अंग्रेजों होंडुरास, जमैका ( साथ its dependencies the Turks और Caicos आइलैंड्स and the Cayman आइलैंड्स ), Trinidad और Tobago, the windward Islands और the leeward आइलैंड्स.
Between 1958 और 1962, सब of the island territories except the British Virgin Islands, the बहामा, अंग्रेजों Honduras और British guiana यहूद संगठित into the वेस्ट Indies Federation.
it was hoped कि the Federation होता become स्वतंत्र as a single nation, but it had सीमित शक्तियां, many practical समस्याएं, and a lack of popular support.
नतीजतन, the वेस्ट Indies Federation was dissolved.
Most of the territories, including all the larger ones, are now independent as पृथक देशों, with membership to many international forums such as the संगठन of American राज्य, the Association of caribbean States, the World व्यापार Organization, the संयुक्त Nations, the Caribbean जातियाँ, the Commonwealth of Nations और the Caribbean Development Bank among अन्य.
The remainder हैं British विदेशी territories.
सब the former nations of the British West इंडीज, मगर the Commonwealth of Dominica, गुयाना and Trinidad and Tobago, are Commonwealth Realms.
the term is still used for British Overseas Territories in the Caribbean, such as the केमन Islands.
the बाकी British वेस्ट इंडीज
`` कया a अद्भुत World '' is a सोंग written by bob Thiele ( as `` George डगलस '' ) and जार्ज David वेइस.
It was पहला recorded by लुई Armstrong and released as a single in 1967.
thiele और Weiss were both prominent in the music संसार ( thiele as a निर्माता and Weiss as a composer/performer ).
Armstrong 's रिकॉर्डिंग was inducted in the Grammy Hall of कीर्ति in 1999.
the प्रकाशन for इस सोंग is controlled by Memory लेन Music Group, Carlin Music Corp., and कीड़ा Music, Inc.
उद्घाटन Day 2009 on the west steps of the U.S. Capitol.
President जार्ज W. Bush and पहला Lady Laura Bush lead the inaugural parade down Pennsylvania Avenue to the White House, 2005
The inauguration of the अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य is a ceremonial event marking the commencement of a new four-year term of a president of the United States.
the day a presidential inauguration occurs is ज्ञात as `` Inauguration दिन '' and occurs on January 20 ( or 21st if the 20th is a संडे ).
( prior to the Twentieth amendment, the date थी March 4, the day of the year on which the Constitution of the United राज्य पहला took प्रभाव in 1789 ; the पिछला उद्घाटन to take place on the older date थी Franklin D. रूज़वेल्ट 's पहला एक on March 4, 1933. )
the most हाल पब्लिक presidential उद्घाटन ceremony, the swearing in of अध्यक्ष Barack Obama to शुरू उसके दूसरी four-year पद in office, took प्लेस on सोमवार, January 21, 2013.
The only inauguration element mandated by the संयुक्त राज्य Constitution is कि the अध्यक्ष make an oath or affirmation before that व्यक्ति can `` डालें on the Execution '' of the दफ्तर of the presidency.
However, over the years, विभिन्न परंपराओं have arisen कि have expanded the inauguration from a सरल oath-taking ceremony to a day-long इवेंट, including parades, भाषणों, and balls.
इससे the presidency of Andrew Jackson through that of jimmy Carter, the प्राथमिक Inauguration Day रस्म took place on the कैपिटल 's ईस्ट Portico.
चूंकि the 1981 उद्घाटन of रोनाल्ड reagan, the रस्म has been आयोजित at the कैपिटल 's वेस्ट सामने.
The inaugurations of William हावर्ड taft in 1909 and Reagan in 1985 यहूद स्थानांतरित indoors at the Capitol due to ठंडा weather.
the युद्ध of 1812 and संसार युद्ध II caused दो inaugurations to be held at other locations in वॉशिंगटन, D.C.
When जार्ज वॉशिंगटन was inaugurated, the शपथ was administered by रॉबर्ट livingston, Chancellor of New यॉर्क राज्य, in 1789, and by विलियम Cushing, Associate Justice of the परम् अदालत, in 1793.
Since Chief इंसाफ ओलिवर Ellsworth swore in अध्यक्ष जॉन Adams, no chief justice has छूटी an Inauguration दिन.
When Inauguration Day has fallen on a Sunday, the मुख्य इंसाफ has administered the oath to the president on the Sunday privately और then again the अगला day सरेआम.
When a new अध्यक्ष takes over mid-term due to the मौत or resignation of a president, the oath of office is administered लकिन formal, public उद्घाटन events have not been आयोजित.
Stefani Joanne एंजेलीना germanotta ( ; born कूच 28, 1986 ), known by her stage नाम Lady Gaga, is an अमरीकी singer, songwriter, record producer, dancer, activist, businesswoman, fashion designer, अभिनेत्री और लोकसेवक.
Born and उठाया in New यॉर्क City, वो primarily पढ़ाई at the Convent of the पवित्र Heart and briefly attended नई यॉर्क University 's Tisch School of the Arts पहले withdrawing to फ़ोकस on her musical career.
She soon began performing in the rock म्यूज़िक scene of Manhattan 's निम्नतर East Side.
by the end of 2007, record कार्यपालिका and producer Vincent Herbert signed her to उसके label streamline Records, an imprint of interscope Records.
initially working as a songwriter at Interscope Records, उसके vocal abilities captured the attention of recording artist एकॉन, who भी signed her to kon सजीव वितरण, उसके own लेबल under interscope.
Lady Gaga आए to prominence as a रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार following the release of her debut एल्बम, the Fame ( 2008 ), जिससे was a नाजुक and commercial success that topped charts around the world and included the international number-one singles `` बस Dance `` और `` पोकर फेस ``.
After embarking on the The Fame बॉल Tour, she followed the album with The Fame दानव ( 2009 ), जिससे spawned the worldwide hit singles `` Bad Romance ``, `` टेलीफोन ``, and `` alejandro ``.
the Fame राक्षस success अनुमत her to embark on the eighteen-month long दानव Ball Tour, which बाद became one of the highest-grossing concert tours of all समय.
उसके most recent album, Born This रास्ता ( 2011 ), topped the charts of most major markets और उत्पन्न more अंतरराष्ट्रीय chart-topping singles, including `` Born This रास्ता ``, `` यहूदा ``, and `` The Edge of Glory ``.
बहकावे by Britney स्पीयर्स, दाउद Bowie, Michael Jackson, Madonna, और महारानी, महिला गागा is recognized लिये her flamboyant, विविध and outré contributions to the music industry through उसके fashion, performances और music वीडियो.
as of October 2011, वो has sold an estimated 23 million albums और 64 million singles worldwide और उसके singles are some of the best-selling worldwide.
Her उपलब्धियाँ शामिल पाँच Grammy पुरस्कार और 13 एमटीवी Video म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार.
Lady गागा has consecutively appeared on Billboard पत्रिका 's कलाकारों of the Year ( स्कोरिंग the definitive title in 2010 ), ranked fourth in VH1 's list of 100 Greatest महिलाओं in Music, is the sixth बेहतरीन selling डिजिटल singles artist in us according to RIAA, is regularly placed on lists composed by Forbes पत्रिका and was named one of the सबसे influential people in the संसार by समय पत्रिका.
besides उसके musical career, she involves herself with humanitarian causes और lgbt सक्रियता.
McKethan Stadium home of Gator baseball
A चित्र of the 1924 बेसबॉल team
The फ्लोरिडा Gators baseball team represents the University of Florida in the खेल of baseball.
The फ्लोरिडा Gators compete in Division I of the नेशनल Collegiate Athletics संघ ( ncaa ), and the Eastern Division of the Southeastern Conference ( SEC ).
वे play their घर खेल in अल्फ्रेड A. McKethan स्टेडियम on the university 's gainesville, फ्लोरिडा campus, and हैं फिलहाल led by head कोच Kevin O'Sullivan.
In the ninety-eight season history of the Gators baseball program, the team has जीती बारह SEC championships and has appeared in आठ कॉलेज World श्रेणी tournaments.
`` electioneering '' redirects यहाँ.
For the Radiohead सोंग, see ok Computer.
अध्यक्षीय अभियान बटन लिये अब्राहम Lincoln, 1860.
The reverse पक्ष of the button shows a portrait of his running mate hannibal Hamlin.
a राजनैतिक campaign is an व्यवस्थित प्रयत्न which seeks to influence the decision making process भीतर a specific group.
in democracies, राजनैतिक अभियान often refer to electoral अभियान, wherein प्रतिनिधि are chosen or referendums are decided.
In modern राजनीती, the सबसे ऊँची profile राजनैतिक campaigns are focused on candidates for head of state or head of सरकारी, often a President or प्रधान मंत्री.
एलिज़ाबेथ Cady Stanton और her daughter, harriot
Elizabeth cady Stanton ( नवम्बर 12, 1815 – October 26, 1902 ) थी an American social activist, abolitionist, and leading फिगर of the early women 's rights movement.
Her Declaration of Sentiments, presented at the first women 's अधिकारों सम्मेलन held in 1848 in Seneca Falls, New York, is प्रायः credited साथ initiating the first व्यवस्थित women 's rights and महिलाओं 's suffrage आंदोलनों in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Before Stanton narrowed उसके राजनैतिक focus लगभग exclusively to महिलाओं 's अधिकारों, she थी an active abolitionist साथ with her husband, Henry Brewster Stanton and cousin, Gerrit स्मिथ.
नापसंद अनेक of those involved in the महिलाओं 's rights गति, Stanton addressed various मुद्दे pertaining to महिलाओं beyond मतदान rights.
Her concerns शामिल women 's parental and custody अधिकारों, property अधिकारों, नियुक्ति और income rights, तलाक, the economic health of the family, और birth control.
She was also an outspoken supporter of the 19th-century temperance गति.
बाद the American Civil War, Stanton 's प्रतिबद्धता to मादा suffrage caused a schism in the women 's अधिकारों movement जब she, together with Susan B. Anthony, declined to support ड्योढ़ी of the fourteenth और Fifteenth amendments to the संयुक्त राज्य Constitution.
वो opposed giving added legal सुरक्षा and voting rights to African American men while महिलाओं, ब्लैक and white, were denied those same rights.
उसके position on this issue, साथ साथ उसके विचार on व्यवस्थित Christianity and women 's issues परे मतदान rights, led to the formation of दो separate women 's अधिकारों organizations that were आखिरकार rejoined, साथ stanton as अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त organization, लगभग बीस सालो after her ब्रेक from the original women 's suffrage movement.
stanton died in 1902 having authored दोनो the Woman 's बाइबल और her autobiography, along साथ many articles and pamphlets concerning female suffrage and women 's अधिकारों.
My Fair महिला is a musical आधारित upon George बर्नार्ड Shaw 's Pygmalion and साथ book और गीत by Alan Jay lerner और म्यूज़िक by फ्रेडरिक Loewe.
The story concerns eliza doolittle, a Cockney flower girl who takes speech lessons from professor Henry Higgins, a phoneticist, so कि she may pass as a well-born महिला.
the musical 's 1956 ब्रॉडवे production थी a hit, सेटिंग what थी then the record लिये the longest run of कोई प्रमुख musical थिएटर उत्पादन in इतिहास.
It was followed by a hit लंदन उत्पादन, a लोकप्रिय film version, और numerous revivals.
It रै महरूम पुकारा `` the perfect musical ''.
deregulation is the अधिनियम or process of removing or reducing state regulations.
it is इसलिए opposite of regulation, which refers to the process of the government regulating निश्चित activities.
the बोस्टन Bruins रेडियो संजाल is a 25-station ( 17 A.M., 8 F.M. प्लस 2 F.M. अनुवादक ) सीबीएस रेडियो संजाल which carries live game प्रसारण of the Boston Bruins.
The network 's फ्लैगशिप station is WBZ-FM /98.5- बोस्टन, मैसाचुसेट्स.
Dave goucher announces play-by-play.
bob Beers provides रंग commentary.
इस आलेख is about the short story.
लिये the कविता by Sara Teasdale, see There Will आइये Soft Rains.
`` वहीँ होगा Come नरम rains '' is a short स्टोरी by science fiction लेखक रे bradbury which was first published in the may 6, 1950 समस्या of collier 's.
बाद कि same year the स्टोरी थी शामिल in Bradbury 's the martian क्रॉनिकल्स ( 1950 ).
With over 1.2 billion people, Han Chinese is the largest ethnic group in the world.
Pashtun लोगों of the Pashtunistan प्रदेश, which sits in an area between दक्षिण of the Hindu Kush in अफगानिस्तान और the Indus नदी in पाकिस्तानी.
They क्रमांक around 50 लाख.
The Korowai people of Papua numbered just around 3,000 लोगों, and were uncontacted until the 1970s.
Ethnicity or जातीय group is a socially defined श्रेणी based on आम culture or राष्ट्रीयता.
Ethnicity can, but करता not have to, शामिल आम ancestry, appearance, भोजन, ड्रेसिंग style, विरासत, इतिहास, भाषा or dialect, धर्म, प्रतीकों, परंपराओं, or अन्य cultural factor.
Ethnic पहचान is constantly reinforced through common विशेषताएँ which set the समूह अलावा इससे other समूह.
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in Spain सुविधाएँ 15 घंटों of storage and can supply power 24 घंटों a day.
Solar energy, रौशन light and heat from the sun, रै महरूम harnessed by humans since ancient times using a range of ever-evolving technologies.
सौर energy technologies शामिल solar heating, सौर photovoltaics, solar thermal electricity, solar architecture और कृत्रिम photosynthesis, which can make considerable contributions to solving कुछ of the most urgent उर्जा problems the world now चेहरों.
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive सौर or active solar depending on the way वे capture, convert और वितरित solar उर्जा.
क्रियाशील सौर तकनीकों include the use of photovoltaic panels and सौर थर्मल collectors to दोहन the उर्जा.
passive solar तकनीकों शामिल orienting a building to the सूर्य, selecting सामग्री with अनुकूल thermal mass or लाइट dispersing गुण, and designing स्पेसेस कि naturally circulate air.
in 2011, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Energy Agency कहा that `` the विकास of affordable, inexhaustible और साफ solar energy technologies will have विशाल longer-term लाभ.
It होगा increase countries’ energy सुरक्षा through रिलायंस on an indigenous, inexhaustible और ज़्यादातर import-independent संसाधन, enhance स्थिरता, reduce pollution, निम्नतर the costs of mitigating climate change, और keep fossil ईंधन prices lower than वरना.
ये advantages are वैश्विक.
Hence the अतिरिक्त लागत of the incentives लिये जल्दी deployment चाहिए be माना learning निवेश ; वे जरूर be wisely खर्च and need to be widely साझा ''.
The शास्त्रीय Latin alphabet or रोमन alphabet विकसित from a western variety of the Greek alphabet called the cumaean वर्णमाला, which थी adopted और modified by the etruscans who ruled जल्दी रोम.
The etruscan वर्णमाला थी in turn adopted और further परिवर्धित by the प्राचीन Romans to write the लैटिन language.
दौरान the Middle Ages, the Latin वर्णमाला was adapted to Romance languages, direct descendants of Latin, as खूब as to Celtic, Germanic, बाल्टिक, and some Slavic languages.
साथ the आयु of colonialism and Christian evangelism, the लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट was spread overseas, और applied to indigenous American, ऑस्ट्रेलियाई, ऑस्ट्रोनीशियाई, Austroasiatic, and African भाषाएं.
अधिक recently, linguists have also tended to prefer the Latin स्क्रिप्ट or the International Phonetic Alphabet ( itself largely आधारित on लैटिन script ) जब transcribing or creating written standards लिये non-european भाषाएं, such as the African सन्दर्भ alphabet.
the पद Latin वर्णमाला may refer to either the वर्णमाला प्रयुक्त to write Latin ( as described in इस आलेख ), or अन्य alphabets based on the लैटिन script, which is the मौलिक set of अक्षर common to the various alphabets descended इससे the classical Latin one, ऐसे as the English वर्णमाला.
These latin-derived alphabets may discard letters, जैसे the rotokas वर्णमाला, or add new letters, जैसे the डैनिश और Norwegian alphabet.
Letter shapes have बदला over the सदियां, including the creation लिये मध्यकालीन लैटिन of lower case forms जिससे किया नहीं मौजूद in the शास्त्रीय period.
The assassination of United States President अब्राहम Lincoln took place on Good Friday, April 14, 1865, as the American सिविल War was drawing to a बंद.
The assassination occurred पाँच days बाद the commander of the Confederate Army of Northern Virginia, सामान्य Robert E. Lee, surrendered to लेफ्टिनेंट सामान्य Ulysses S. Grant and the Union फौज of the Potomac.
lincoln थी the first American president to be assassinated, हालांकि an unsuccessful attempt था been made on Andrew Jackson 30 years before in 1835.
The assassination थी नियोजित और carried आउट by the well-known स्टेज actor John Wilkes Booth, as भाग of a larger षड्यंत्र in a बोली to revive the confederate cause.
बूथ 's co-conspirators were Lewis Powell और दाउद herold, who were आबंटित to मार Secretary of State William H. Seward, and George atzerodt जो थी to मार Vice अध्यक्ष Andrew जॉनसन.
By simultaneously eliminating the top तीन people in the administration, Booth and उसके co-conspirators hoped to sever the continuity of the United States सरकारी.
lincoln was shot while watching the खेल हमारी American cousin साथ his wife Mary Todd lincoln at Ford 's Theatre in वॉशिंगटन, d.C. on the रात्रि of April 14, 1865.
he died जल्दी the next morning.
The rest of the षड्यंत्रकारियों ' प्लाट failed ; Powell तभी प्रबंधित to घाव Seward, while Atzerodt, Johnson 's would-be हत्यारे, lost his nerve and fled वॉशिंगटन.
add-on might mean:
Plug-in ( computing ), a टुकड़ा of software which enhances another तन्त्र application and प्रायः can नहीं be run independently
Browser extension, which modifies the इंटरफ़ेस and/or behavior of web browsers
Add-on ( Mozilla ), a टुकड़ा of तन्त्र that enhances and customizes Mozilla-based अनुप्रयोग
Add-ons लिये फायरफॉक्स ( addons.mozilla.org ), the आधिकारिक मोज़िला न्यास वेब site जिससे serves as a repository of add-ons लिये mozilla-based अनुप्रयोग
Peripheral, an optional कंप्यूटर hardware component that significantly supplements or enhances the कार्यक्षमता of the original unit
Video खेल accessory, a टुकड़ा of hardware used in conjunction with a वीडियो game कंसोल for playing video खेल
क्लबों level seating is a खास section of seating in आधुनिक खेल stadiums.
The क्लबों स्तर is प्रायः स्तिथ towards the middle of the stage of seating sections, above the lower डेक लकिन नीचे the अपर डेक.
They हैं प्रायः सही next to the Luxury Boxes, either right above, सही नीचे, or sandwiched between two levels of Luxury बाक्स.
क्लबों स्तर seating is considered as उच्चतर क्लास than sitting anywhere else in the arena, but lower क्लास compared to the Luxury Boxes.
Unlike the Luxury बाक्स, सबसे क्लबों levels do not रैप entirely around the एरिना.
Some club levels stop at a certain point, giving way to an विस्तार of the Mezzanine, while अन्य give way to lower क्लास Luxury Boxes ( ऐसे as `` Party Suites '' ).
A notable exception to this is अमीरात स्टेडियम in London, which has a पूरा tier of club seating.
Club Levels allow प्रशंसक multiple levels of entertainment.
Club स्तर seating is खोलें to the elements, as opposed to the entirely enclosed luxury boxes, which gives more of an बाहरी impression at roofless and open-roof स्टेडियम and arenas.
Club Level seating is सामान्यतः bought on a अनुबंध basis to allow लिये maximum profit on the भाग of the स्टेडियम.
the Club Level provides fans साथ special अभिगम to an indoor भाग of the arena exclusive to प्रशंसक with खास tickets.
These areas are एयर conditioned and allow access to खास रेस्तरां, merchandise stands, और lounge क्षेत्रों of the स्टेडियम that are not वरना available.
रियायत stands और vendors on the Club Level also often offer अलग menus than in other stands to give more of a special feel to the Club.
These क्षेत्रों are closed off to the rest of the स्टेडियम, and they usually can तभी be पहुँचा through the विशेष, निजी club entrances.
Sophia लोरेन ( ; born सोफिया Villani Scicolone ; 20 सितंबर 1934 ) is an Italian actress.
Loren is widely recognized as इटली 's most प्रसिद्ध and honored actress.
She थी the first actress of the talkie era to जीत an Academy Award for a non-English-speaking प्रदर्शन, लिये उसके portrayal of cesira in vittorio de Sica 's Two Women.
उसके अन्य पुरस्कार include a Grammy Award, five special Golden ग्लोब्स, a BAFTA Award and a लॉरेल Award.
In 1995 वो प्राप्त the Cecil B. DeMille Award for आजीवन achievements, one of अनेक such पुरस्कार.
उसके films शामिल : Houseboat ( 1958 ), El सीआईडी ( 1961 ), कल, Today and Tomorrow ( 1963 ), Marriage Italian-Style ( 1964 ), और a खास दिन ( 1977 ).
in later सालो she रै appeared in अमरीकी blockbusters ऐसे as Grumpier Old मेन ( 1995 ), और नौ ( 2009 ).
In 1994 she starred in Robert Altman 's prêt-à-porter, which earned her a Golden ग्लोब nomination the वही year.
वो has also achieved नाजुक and वाणिज्यिक success in TV movies such as Courage ( 1986 ).
मौतों for self-inflicted चोटों per 100,000 निवासियों in 2004.
incidence of suicide is underreported due to दोनो धार्मिक and social pressures, और possibly completely unreported in some क्षेत्रों.
Nevertheless, from reported मामले, certain रुझान हैं apparent.
चूंकि the data is skewed, comparing आत्महत्या दरों between nations is statistically unsound.
The trends themselves हैं not the कारण, but may be indicative of a root cause.
the Oprah विनफ्रे नेतृत्व अकादमी for Girls - दक्षिण Africa is a female बोर्डिंग school founded in January 2007 and located in Henley on Klip near meyerton, दक्षिण of Johannesburg, South Africa.
the अकादमी थी संस्थापित by ओपरा Winfrey with the लक्ष्य of providing educational और leadership opportunities for academically gifted girls from impoverished backgrounds.
ओपरा Winfrey Leadership अकादमी लिये लड़कियों
Digicel is a mobile फोन network provider operating in 31 markets आरपार the Caribbean, Central अमेरिका, and Oceania regions.
The company is owned by Irishman डेनिस O'Brien, is incorporated in बरमूडा, and आधारित in Jamaica.
it has परिचय 13 million बेतार उपयोक्ता.
as of 2012, Digicel 's बाज़ार comprise : Anguilla, अण्टीगुआ और Barbuda, अरूबा, Barbados, बरमूडा, Bonaire, the British वर्जिन आइलैंड्स, the Cayman Islands, Curacao, Dominica, El साल्वाडोर, Fiji, फ्रेंच guiana, हरा, guadeloupe, Guyana, Haiti, जमैका, मार्टीनिक, Nauru, Panama, Papua New गिनी, समोआ, Saint किट्स और नेविस, Saint Lucia, संत Vincent and the Grenadines, सूरीनाम, टोंगा, त्रिनिदाद & Tobago, turks और caicos, और Vanuatu.
This is a सूची of रिकॉर्ड of the फीफा World Cup and its qualification मिलान.
Hospital Emergency कोड हैं used in hospitals worldwide to चेतावनी staff to विभिन्न emergencies.
the use of codes is intended to convey अनिवार्य information quickly और with minimal misunderstanding to staff, जबकि preventing stress और panic among विज़िटर to the हॉस्पिटल.
ये कोड may be posted on placards throughout the हॉस्पिटल, or मुद्रित on employee identification badges लिये ready सन्दर्भ.
Back of a hospital ID badge showing disaster codes.
Hospital emergency codes may denote अलग events at अलग hospitals, including आसपास ones.
क्युकी many physicians work at more than one सुविधा, इस may lead to confusion in emergencies, so वर्दी systems have been प्रस्तावित.
the route of the Eifel जलसेतु, with its average slope.
The Eifel Aqueduct थी one of the longest aqueducts of the Roman Empire.
the जलसेतु, constructed in AD 80, carried जल कुछ from the hilly Eifel प्रदेश of कया is अभी Germany to the प्राचीन city of Colonia Claudia Ara Agrippinensium ( present-day कोलोन ).
if the auxiliary स्पर्स to additional springs are included, the length was.
the construction was लगभग entirely नीचे ground, और the प्रवाह of the जल was produced entirely by gravity.
a few पुलों, सहित one up to in लंबाई, were needed to pass over valleys.
नापसंद कुछ of the अन्य famous Roman aqueducts, the Eifel जलसेतु थी specifically designed to minimize the above-ground portion to protect it इससे damage और जमने.
In रसायन, a disulfide bond ( br.e. disulphide बंध ) is a covalent bond, प्रायः derived by the coupling of दो thiol groups.
The linkage is also पुकारा an SS-bond or disulfide सेतु.
The overall कनेक्टिविटी is therefore r-s-s-r.
The शब्दावली is widely प्रयुक्त in biochemistry.
In formal terms, the connection is a persulfide, in analogy to its congener, peroxide ( r-o-o-r ), but इस terminology is अस्पष्ट and is no longer used ( मगर in reference to R-S-S-H or H-S-S-H compounds ).
Formal depiction of disulfide bond formation as an oxidation.
Westminster ऐबी is used for the coronation of अंग्रेजों monarchs
Religion in the संयुक्त Kingdom और in the देशों कि preceded it, रै been dominated, लिये over 1,400 years, by विभिन्न फ़ॉर्म of christianity.
According to some सर्वेक्षण, a बहुमत of citizens स्टिल identify with Christianity, हालांकि regular church उपस्थिति has fallen dramatically since the middle of the 20th century, and immigration and जनसांख्यिकी बदलें have contributed to the विकास of अन्य faiths.
Religious संबद्धों of UK नागरिकों are recorded by regular सर्वेक्षण, the four major ones being the UK Census, the Labour Force Survey, the अंग्रेजों Social attitudes survey and the यूरोपीय Social Survey.
According to the 2001 uk जनसांख्यिकी, Christianity is the प्रमुख religion, followed by Islam, Hinduism, Sikhism, Judaism और buddhism in terms of क्रमांक of adherents.
This, और the relatively large number of individuals with nominal or no धार्मिक affiliations has led टीकाकारों to variously describe the संयुक्त Kingdom as a multi-faith, secularised, or post-Christian समाज.
The संयुक्त Kingdom was formed by the union of previously independent countries इससे 1707, और consequently सबसे of the largest धार्मिक groups do not have uk-wide organisational structures.
जबकि some groups have separate structures for the individual countries of the संयुक्त किंगडम, others may have a single ढांचा covering इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स or ग्रेट Britain.
similarly, due to the relatively recent creation of उत्तरी Ireland in 1921, most major religious groups in Northern आयरलैंड are संगठित on an all-Ireland आधार.
The 1967 Newark riots यहूद a प्रमुख civil disturbance कि occurred in the city of न्यूर्क, नई Jersey between जुलाई 12 और जुलाई 17, 1967.
The six दिनों of rioting, लूटने, and विनाश बाएँ 26 dead and hundreds injured.
in United राज्य कॉलेज athletics, redshirt is a विलंब or बर्खास्तगी of an athlete 's participation in order to lengthen his or her काल of eligibility.
Typically, a छात्र 's athletic eligibility in a given खेल is four सीज़न, a number निकला from the चार years of अकादमिक classes that हैं normally जरूरी to obtain a bachelor 's उपाधि at an अमरीकी college or विश्वविद्यालयों.
However, a छात्र खिलाड़ी may be offered the opportunity to redshirt लिये up to two years, which allows the athlete to spread those चार सालो of eligibility over five, or sometimes six सालो.
In a redshirt year, a student खिलाड़ी may attend वर्ग at the college or university, practice साथ an athletic टोली, and dress for play लकिन he or वो may नहीं compete during the खेल.
Using this यांत्रिकी, a student athlete रै up to five अकादमिक years to use the चार years of eligibility, thus बनने a fifth-year वरिष्ठ.
The पद is used as a क्रिया, संज्ञा, and क्रियाशील.
For उदाहरण, a coach may choose to redshirt a खिलाड़ी who is then referred to as a redshirt freshman or simply a redshirt.
The opposite of this is a `` सच्चा freshman. ''
World War i ( wwi ) थी a global युद्ध केंद्रित in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It थी predominantly पुकारा the World War or the Great War from its occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of संसार War II in 1939, और the पहला संसार युद्ध or संसार युद्ध i thereafter.
It involved all the संसार 's great powers, which were समवेत in two opposing alliances : the allies ( आधारित on the ट्रिपल Entente of the United किंगडम, फ़्रांस और Russia ) और the सेंट्रल Powers ( originally the ट्रिपल Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary and इटली ; but, as austria–hungary था लिया the अप्रिय against the agreement, इटली किया नहीं enter into the war ).
These alliances यहूद both reorganised और expanded as more nations डाला the war : इटली, जापानी and the United राज्य joined the allies, and the उस्मानी साम्राज्य और Bulgaria the Central शक्तियां.
ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, including 60 million Europeans, यहूद mobilised in एक of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 लाख combatants were मारे, largely because of technological advancements that led to विशाल increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in सुरक्षा or गतिशीलता.
it was the fifth- deadliest conflict in संसार history, subsequently paving the रास्ता for various political changes, such as revolutions in many of the nations शामिल.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the विदेशी policies of the ग्रेट powers of यूरोपीय.
अधिक immediately, the assassination of Archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 June 1914 by यूगोस्लाव nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic संकट जब Austria-Hungary subsequently वितरित an ultimatum to the किंगडम of Serbia.
अनेक alliances formed over the पिछला decades यहूद invoked.
भीतर weeks, the प्रमुख powers were at युद्ध and, via उनके colonies, the विरोध जल्द स्प्रेड around the संसार.
on 28 जुलाई, the austro-hungarians fired the first shots of the युद्ध as preparation लिये the invasion of सर्बिया.
While the russians mobilised, the Germans invaded न्यूट्रल Belgium and ध्वज on the way to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of युद्ध against जर्मनी.
After the जर्मनी कूच on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that बदला little जबतक 1917.
On the पूर्वी सामने, the रूसी फौज was successful विरूद्ध the Austro-Hungarians, लकिन was रोका in its invasion of East prussia by the germans.
In नवम्बर the Ottoman Empire joined the युद्ध, opening up fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy and Bulgaria गई to war in 1915 और Romania in 1916.
in Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in कूच 1917 और a subsequent क्रान्ति in नवम्बर brought the Russians to terms साथ the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German अप्रिय along the western front, the Allies drove वापस the Germans in a series of कामयाब offensives और American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, जिससे था its own ट्रबल with revolutionaries, सहमत to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in victory for the Allies.
कार्यक्रम on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the बैटल fronts, as the participants आजमाया to mobilize their manpower और economic संसाधन to लड़ो a कुल युद्ध.
By the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to मौजूद.
The successor states of the पूर्व दो खोया a great राशि of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The मैप of सेंट्रल Europe was redrawn into several छोटी states.
the लीग of राष्ट्र was formed in the आशा of preventing another ऐसे conflict.
The यूरोपीय राष्ट्रवाद शाखित by the war और the breakup of empires, the repercussions of Germany 's शिकस्त और problems साथ the सन्धि of Versailles are सहमत to be factors contributing to संसार युद्ध ii.
Map of देशों कि घोषित themselves to be socialist states under the Marxist–Leninist or माओवादी परिभाषा - कि is to say, `` Communist राज्य '' - between 1979 and 1983.
This period marked the greatest territorial extent of Communist states.
A communist राज्य is a state where the means of उत्पादन are collectively owned by the society.
It रै a रूप of government characterized by single-party rule or dominant-party नियम of a कम्युनिस्ट party ( referred as Dictatorship of the proletariat by its proponents ) and a professed निष्ठा to a Leninist or Marxist–Leninist ideology as the guiding principle of the राज्य.
Technically, `` कम्युनिस्ट राज्य '' is a contradictio in terminis as a communist society as defined by दोनो माक्र्सवादी and anarcho-communists is in principle stateless.
From this परिप्रेक्ष्य, the term marxist-leninist राज्य is अधिक उचित.
historically, a `` communist राज्य '' referred to a system where public स्वामित्व of all or most अर्थात् of production by the कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी -run राज्य is deemed जरुरी to further the रूचि of the working class ; आज, a कम्युनिस्ट राज्य can भी, for instance, refer to contemporary China और Vietnam, जहाँ a कम्युनिस्ट Party-run state exists alongside a मिश्रित economy.
according to Marxist–Leninists, the state is a tool in the हैंड्स of the ruling class, which in a socialist society is the working class, so a socialist राज्य is, according to leninists, a राज्य of the working class.
in अभ्यास, communist states do not दरअसल refer to themselves as such.
They do this not to disguise the fact that the ruling party is communist, but rather because they do not consider themselves to be a कम्युनिस्ट society at present.
बजाय, they constitutionally identify themselves as समाजवादी राज्य or मजदूर ' states.
The primary goal of these states, जिससे also explains their आधिकारिक name, is to मार्गदर्शिका their संबंधित countries in the process of building socialism, ultimately अग्रणी to साम्यवादी.
Communist राज्य may have अनेक legal राजनैतिक parties, लकिन the कम्युनिस्ट party is प्रायः granted a खास or dominant भूमिका in सरकारी, often by statute or under the constitution.
Consequently, the institutions of the state और of the कम्युनिस्ट party become intimately entwined, such as in the development of parallel संस्थानों.
in the 20th century, सबसे कम्युनिस्ट states अपनाया planned economies.
However, वहीँ were अपवाद : the सोवियत संघ दौरान the 1920s and लेट 1980s and Yugoslavia after संसार युद्ध II अनुमत limited markets and a उपाधि of कार्यकर्ता self-management, while China, वियतनाम and Laos introduced far-reaching market reforms after the 1980s.
In the 21st century, चीन and Vietnam have allowed a मिश्रित economy to develop.
The fundamental concepts of communist states often diverge from the असली socio-economic ideologies from which they develop.
As a result, many adherents of these ideologies प्रायः oppose the राजनैतिक systems commonly associated साथ ये राज्य.
लिये example, dissenting communists such as trotskyists were प्रायः opposed to the communist राज्य of the 20th सदी, claiming either कि वे था nothing to do साथ `` real '' communism or that the ideology of ऐसे states had पहुँचे a point of irrevocable भ्रष्टाचार.
Michael Fred Phelps ii ( born जून 30, 1985 ) is a retired American swimmer और the most decorated ओलंपियन of सब time, with a total of 22 medals.
Phelps also holds the all-time records for Olympic gold medals ( 18, double the दूसरी उच्चतम record holders ), Olympic gold medals in individual कार्यक्रम ( 11 ), and Olympic medals in व्यक्तिगत events for a पुरूष ( 13 ).
In winning eight सुनहरा medals at the 2008 Beijing Games, Phelps took the record लिये the most first-place finishes at कोई single Olympic खेल.
पाँच of those victories were in individual कार्यक्रम, tying the single खेल record.
In the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, फेल्प्स जीती चार golds और दो चांदी medals, making उसे the सबसे कामयाब खिलाड़ी of the Games for the तीसरा ओलंपिक in a पंक्ति.
Phelps is the long course संसार recordholder in the 100-meter तितली, 200-meter butterfly और 400-meter व्यक्तिगत medley as well as the पूर्व long course संसार recordholder in the 200-meter freestyle and 200-meter व्यक्तिगत medley.
he has won a कुल of 71 medals in major international long-course competition, 57 gold, 11 silver, और three कांस्य spanning the Olympics, the World, and the Pan Pacific championships.
फेल्प्स 's international titles और record-breaking performances have अर्जित उसे the World तैराक of the Year Award सात times और American Swimmer of the Year पुरस्कार नौ times as well as the FINA Swimmer of the Year Award in 2012.
उसके unprecedented Olympic success in 2008 अर्जित Phelps खेल Illustrated पत्रिका 's Sportsman of the साल award.
बाद the 2008 गर्मियाँ Olympics, फेल्प्स प्रारंभ the Michael Phelps Foundation, which focuses on growing the खेल of swimming and promoting healthier lifestyles.
He expects to do further work with उसके न्यास after the 2012 Olympics, जिससे he has said will be उसके last.
लेनोवो Group सीमित ( ) is a चाइनीज multinational computer hardware और electronics company with its headquarters in बीजिंग, China and Morrisville, उत्तर कैरोलिना and its पंजीकृत office in Hong Kong, China.
Its उत्पाद include personal computers, tablet computers, मोबाईल phones, workstations, servers, electronic storage devices, it प्रबन्धन तन्त्र and smart televisions.
लेनोवो is the संसार 's second-largest PC vendor by 2012 ईकाई बिक्री.
It markets the ThinkPad लकीर of notebook computers and the ThinkCentre लकीर of desktops.
लेनोवो has operations in अधिक than 60 countries and sells इसके products in around 160 countries.
Lenovo थी founded in बीजिंग in 1984 and incorporated in हांग Kong in 1988 under इसके पिछला नाम, Legend.
Lenovo is listed on the Hong काँग भण्डार एक्सचेंज and is a constituent of the हैंग Seng China-Affiliated Corporations अनुक्रमणिका.
Slug is a common नाम लिये an apparently shell-less स्थलीय gastropod mollusk.
the शब्द `` slug '' is also प्रायः प्रयुक्त as भाग of the आम name of कोई gastropod mollusc कि has no shell, रै a very घटाया shell, or has तभी a small आतंरिक shell.
( इस is in contrast to the आम name `` snail ``, जिससे is applied to gastropods that have a coiled shell कि is large पर्याप्त that the नरम भाग of the एनिमल can retract fully into it. )
Slugs exist on land and in the sea, and वहीँ is भी one genus of freshwater slugs, Acochlidium.
the unadorned word `` स्लग '' is however applied primarily to land slugs, whereas slugs from the समुद्र or from freshwater हैं प्रायः referred to as `` समुद्र slugs `` और `` freshwater slugs ''.
जमीन gastropods with a shell that is not quite vestigial, लकिन is too छोटी to retract into ( जैसे अनेक in the family urocyclidae ), हैं known as semislugs.
the विभिन्न taxonomic families of slugs form part of अनेक काफी different विकासवादी lineages जिससे भी शामिल snails.
यूँ, for उदाहरण, the various families of जमीन slugs are नहीं very closely related to एक another, despite a superficial समानता in the overall body रूप.
the shell-less condition रै arisen अनेक टाइम्स independently during the evolutionary पास्ट, and यूँ the category `` slug '' is emphatically a polyphyletic one.
Slugs, like all other gastropods, undergo torsion ( a 180° टेढ़ी of the आतंरिक अंगों ) during विकास.
Internally, slug anatomy clearly shows the effects of इस rotation, but externally the bodies of land slugs appear to be अधिक or less symmetrical, except for the positioning of the pneumostome, which is on one पक्ष of the एनिमल, normally the सही hand side.
The नरम, slimy bodies of slugs हैं prone to desiccation, so land-living slugs are confined to moist environments and जरूर retreat to damp छुपाना स्थान when the मौसम is dry.
the subsequent सूचना in this आलेख applies to land slugs.
is a Latin शब्द that अर्थात् `` thus '' or, in लिखने, `` it थी यूँ in the source material ''.
Sic may also refer to:
Sic, cluj, a कम्यून in रोमानिया
SIC, the regional कोड for Sicily
Sic ( noise कलाकार ), styled as [ sic ], stage name of Jennifer मॉरिस, a कनाडाई noise artist
Sic ( बैंड ) is a modern hardcore/thrash मेटल band इससे torshavn, the पूंजी of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '', a song by American band slipknot on the album Slipknot
SIC, the initial of Marco Simoncelli.
SIC as an एक्रोनिम may stand for:
sic, सिलिकॉन carbide, a semiconducting सामग्री, भी प्रयुक्त to मेक धातुकर्म टूल्स
SIC ( cyclecar ) ( Società Italiana Cyclecars )
Standard Industrial Classification, a 20th-century u.S. system लिये classifying उद्योग
International Standard औद्योगिक Classification a UN system for economic activities
Shetland Islands परिषद
the स्विस Interbank Clearing system
सैन isidro Club, an Argentine रग्बी संघ club
Standing Interpretation Committee, a committee dedicated to the निर्वचन of अंतरराष्ट्रीय हिसाब मानकों IFRS
Schwarz information criterion in the फ़ील्ड of statistics
Second-in-command in the फ़ील्ड of aviation
Sistema Interconectado Central शक्ति grid in Chile
sociedade independente de Comunicação ( SIC ), a टेलीविज़न channel in पुर्तगाल
समुद्र आइल City, New Jersey, a coastal कस्बा in the United States
Segmented Integer काउंटर mode, a mode of आपरेशन in क्रिप्टोग्राफी
Sepang अंतरराष्ट्रीय Circuit, a high-end racetrack that hosts the मलेशियाई round of सूत्र 1
शंघाई अंतरराष्ट्रीय Circuit, a मोटर रेसिंग स्थान in Shanghai, चीन
सरलीकृत instructional कंप्यूटर, a काल्पनिक computer used in systems programming
sic ( बेटे idées Couleurs ), an जल्दी twentieth-century art magazine produced by फ्रेंच author Pierre albert-birot
Southeastern इलिनोइस कॉलेज, a two year जूनियर कॉलेज in harrisburg, Illinois, United राज्य
Specific inductive क्षमता, abbreviated to SIC, जिससे is अधिक commonly known as the relative permittivity or the परावैद्युत constant
St Ignatius ' कॉलेज, Riverview, a Jesuit school in सिडनी, Australia
इम्पीरियल Standard of Napoleon I
Napoleon बोनापार्ट (, ; 15 August 1769 – 5 May 1821 ) थी a French सैन्य and political leader who रोज़ to prominence during the latter चरण of the French Revolution and its associated wars in यूरोपीय.
as Napoleon i, he was Emperor of the French इससे 1804 to 1815.
His legal सुधार, the Napoleonic Code, has been a प्रमुख influence on many civil विधि jurisdictions worldwide, but he is बेहतरीन remembered for उसके भूमिका in the युद्धों led against France by a श्रेणी of coalitions, the so-called napoleonic युद्धों.
He स्थापित hegemony over सबसे of continental Europe and sought to spread the आदर्शों of the French Revolution, while consolidating an इम्पीरियल साम्राज्य जिससे restored aspects of the अपदस्थ ancien Régime.
due to his कामयाबी in ये wars, often against numerically श्रेष्ठ enemies, he is generally regarded as एक of the महानतम सैन्य कमांडरों of all समय, और उसके अभियान are studied at सैन्य अकादमियों worldwide.
Napoleon थी born at ajaccio in Corsica in a family of noble इतालवी ancestry which had settled Corsica in the 16th century.
He trained as an artillery अधिकारी in मेनलैंड France.
He rose to prominence अंतर्गत the French पहला गणतंत्र और led कामयाब अभियान against the First and दूसरी Coalitions arrayed against फ़्रांस.
he led a कामयाब आक्रमण of the Italian peninsula.
in 1799, he staged a तख्तापलट d'état and installed himself as पहला Consul ; five years बाद the फ्रेंच Senate proclaimed उसे emperor, following a plebiscite in his favour.
in the पहला दशक of the 19th सदी, the French Empire under Napoleon सगाई in a श्रेणी of conflicts—the napoleonic Wars —that involved प्रत्येक प्रमुख European power.
After a streak of victories, France secured a प्रबल position in continental Europe, और नेपोलियन maintained the फ्रेंच sphere of influence through the formation of extensive alliances और the नियुक्ति of friends and family सदस्यों to rule अन्य European countries as French client राज्य.
The Peninsular War और 1812 फ्रेंच invasion of Russia marked turning points in नेपोलियन 's fortunes.
His Grande Armée was badly क्षतिग्रस्त in the campaign और never fully बरामद.
in 1813, the Sixth Coalition पराजित his शक्तियां at Leipzig ; the following year the Coalition invaded फ़्रांस, मजबूर नेपोलियन to abdicate and exiled उसे to the द्वीप of एल्बा.
कम than a year later, he फरार एल्बा and returned to शक्ति, but was पराजित at the Battle of Waterloo in June 1815.
नेपोलियन spent the last छह सालो of his जीवन in कारावास by the British on the island of संत Helena.
an पोस्टमार्टम concluded he died of stomach cancer, but there has महरूम some बहस परिचय the कारण of उसके मौत, as कुछ scholars have speculated कि he was a शिकार of arsenic poisoning.
This is a कालानुक्रमिक लिस्टिंग of the United States Senators इससे Pennsylvania.
United States Senators are popularly elected, लिये a six-year term, शुरूआत January 3.
चुनावों are held the पहला मंगलवार बाद November 1.
पहले 1914, they were chosen by the पेन्सिलवेनिया General Assembly, and before 1935, their terms began March 4.
the South Africa national रग्बी संघ team ( known as the springboks ) represents South Africa in रग्बी संघ.
They compete in the annual Rugby Championship, along with southern-hemisphere counterparts अर्जेंटीना, Australia and नई Zealand.
वे have won this चैंपियनशिप on three अवसरों in सोलह years.
They हैं currently ranked second in the संसार by the International Rugby फलक, and were नामित 2008 World Team of the Year at the laureus संसार Sports पुरस्कार.
Although South Africa was इंस्ट्रूमेंटल in the creation of the रग्बी संसार कप प्रतियोगिता, the Springboks did not compete in the पहला दो संसार cups in 1987 and 1991 क्युकी of anti-apartheid sporting boycotts of South अफ़्रीकी.
the team बना its World कप डेब्यू in 1995, जब the newly democratic South Africa hosted the टूर्नामेंट.
the Springboks then defeated the सब अश्वेतों 15–12 in the final, which is अभी remembered as one of the greatest moments in दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी 's sporting history, और a watershed moment in the post-Apartheid nation-building प्रक्रम.
दक्षिण Africa regained their title as champions 12 years बाद, जब वे पराजित England 15–6 in the 2007 फाइनल.
as a परिणाम of the 2007 World कप टूर्नामेंट the springboks were promoted to first प्लेस in the IRB World Rankings, a स्थिति they held जबतक July the following year when New Zealand regained the top spot.
The springboks खेल in green और सुनहरा jerseys, and उनके प्रतीक are the Springbok और the protea.
the side has been playing international rugby चूंकि 1891, जब a अंग्रेजों Isles पक्ष toured the स्वदेश, playing दक्षिण Africa in उनके पहला Test on 30 July.
South Africa थी coached by Jake श्वेत, who led the boks to the 2007 World कप title, announcing उसके इस्तीफा effectively from the end of 2007.
His replacement 's ( Peter de villiers ) contract expired in 2011, following a 11–9 defeat to ऑस्ट्रेलिया in the Rugby World Cup quarter-final, जो then stated he would नहीं be हस्ताक्षर a new deal.
The पिछला captain was जॉन smit, who पहले he रिटायर्ड in 2011 played वेश्या for सबसे of his career, although he रै also महरूम a prop, मुख्यतः in 2008 and 2009.
Due to smit होने अनुपलब्ध for the नवम्बर 2010 परीक्षण बाद सर्जरी, ताला Victor Matfield took Smit 's place as captain लिये that दौरे.
the current captain is जां de villiers.
The Battle of Gettysburg (, with an ध्वनि ), थी fought July 1–3, 1863, in and around the town of gettysburg, Pennsylvania.
It was the बैटल with the largest क्रमांक of हताहत in the American Civil युद्ध and is प्रायः described as the war 's turning point.
संघ Maj. Gen. George गॉर्डन Meade 's फौज of the Potomac पराजित हमले by confederate gen. Robert E. ली 's फौज of Northern Virginia, समाप्ति ली 's आक्रमण of the North.
बाद उसके कामयाबी at chancellorsville in Virginia in May 1863, Lee led his army through the shenandoah Valley to begin his second invasion of the North—the gettysburg Campaign.
साथ his army in ऊँची spirits, Lee intended to shift the focus of the गर्मियाँ अभियान from war-ravaged उत्तरी वर्जिनिया और hoped to influence Northern politicians to give up their prosecution of the युद्ध by penetrating as दूर as Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, or even फिलाडेल्फिया.
prodded by President अब्राहम Lincoln, Maj. Gen. जोसेफ वेश्या moved his army in pursuit, but was relieved just three days पहले the battle and replaced by Meade.
Elements of the दो armies initially collided at Gettysburg on July 1, 1863, as Lee urgently concentrated his forces वहीँ, his objective being to engage the Union फौज and नष्ट it.
Low ridges to the northwest of कस्बा were defended initially by a Union प्यादे division under ब्रिगेडियर. Gen. John buford, और soon reinforced साथ दो corps of संघ infantry.
However, दो विशाल Confederate corps assaulted them from the उत्तरपश्चिम and उत्तर, collapsing the hastily developed Union lines, sending the defenders retreating through the गलियों of town to the hills just to the दक्षिण.
On the दूसरी दिन of बैटल, most of both सेना था assembled.
The Union लकीर was laid out in a defensive formation resembling a fishhook.
In the late afternoon of July 2, Lee शुभारम्भ a heavy assault on the Union left पार्श्व, and fierce लड़ raged at छोटी Round Top, the Wheatfield, Devil 's Den, and the Peach Orchard.
on the Union right, demonstrations escalated into full-scale assaults on culp 's Hill and Cemetery Hill.
सब across the battlefield, despite significant losses, the Union defenders held their lines.
on the third day of battle, July 3, लड़ resumed on Culp 's हिल, और cavalry battles raged to the ईस्ट and south, but the main event was a dramatic infantry assault by 12,500 confederates विरूद्ध the बीच of the Union line on Cemetery लकीरें, ज्ञात as Pickett 's Charge.
The चार्ज was repulsed by Union राइफल and artillery fire, at great losses to the confederate फौज.
ली led उसके army on a torturous retreat back to Virginia.
Between 46,000 और 51,000 soldiers from दोनो armies were casualties in the three-day battle.
That November, President Lincoln used the dedication ceremony for the gettysburg National Cemetery to honor the गिरे संघ सैनिको and redefine the purpose of the war in his historic gettysburg Address.
an academic discipline, or field of study, is a branch of ज्ञान कि is taught और researched at the कॉलेज or university level.
Disciplines are defined ( in भाग ), और recognized by the academic journals in which research is published, and the learned समाजों and academic विभाग or faculties to which their practitioners belong.
However, वहीँ exists no formal criteria for जब शैक्षणिक कार्यक्रम and scholarly जर्नल्स form an academic discipline.
a huge difference exists between, on the एक hand, well established disciplines that exist in almost सब universities सब over the संसार, have a long history, और have a well स्थापित नियत of journals and सम्मेलनों, and, on the अन्य हाथ, सुझाव for new fields supported only by few universities और publications.
Fields of study प्रायः have several sub-disciplines or शाखाओं, and the distinguishing lines between ये are प्रायः both arbitrary और ambiguous.
पीएचपी is a server-side एनक्रिप्शन भाषा designed for web development but also used as a general-purpose programming भाषा.
PHP is अभी installed on अधिक than 244 लाख वेबसाइटों और 2.1 million वेब servers.
originally निर्मित by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1995, the सन्दर्भ implementation of PHP is अभी उत्पादित by The PHP Group.
जबकि PHP originally stood for Personal Home पेज, it now स्टैंड लिये पीएचपी : हाइपरटेक्स्ट preprocessor, a recursive acronym.
PHP code is interpreted by a web server with a PHP processor module जिससे generates the resulting web पेज : PHP कमांड can be embedded directly into an एचटीएमएल source document rather than कॉलिंग an external file to प्रक्रम data.
It has also evolved to शामिल a command-line इंटरफ़ेस काबिलियत और can be used in standalone graphical अनुप्रयोग.
PHP is फ़्री तन्त्र released under the PHP License, which is incompatible साथ the GNU General पब्लिक License ( GPL ) due to प्रतिबंध on the उपयोग of the पद PHP.
PHP can be deployed on most web servers and भी as a स्टैंडअलोन shell on almost every operating प्रणाली और platform, free of charge.
John Fitzgerald `` जोकर '' Kennedy ( May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963 ), often referred to by his आद्याक्षर JFK, थी the 35th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, सेवारत from 1961 until his death in 1963.
After सैन्य सेवा as commander of the मोटर Torpedo Boats PT-109 और PT-59 दौरान World War ii in the South प्रशांत, Kennedy represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional district in the U.S. House of प्रतिनिधि from 1947 to 1953 as a डेमोक्रेट.
Thereafter, he served in the U.S. Senate from 1953 जबतक 1960.
Kennedy पराजित Vice President and Republican candidate रिचर्ड निक्सन in the 1960 u.S. presidential election.
At 43 years of age, he is the youngest to have महरूम elected to the office, the second-youngest अध्यक्ष ( after थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट ), और the first व्यक्ति born in the 20th सदी to serve as president.
a Catholic, कैनेडी is the only non- प्रोटोस्टेंट president, and is the तभी president to have जीती a Pulitzer पुरस्कार.
Events during his presidency शामिल the खाड़ी of सूअर आक्रमण, the क्यूबन Missile संकट, the भवन of the Berlin वॉल, the स्पेस Race, the African-American Civil अधिकारों गति, और early stages of the वियतनाम युद्ध.
Therein, कैनेडी increased the number of सैन्य advisers, special operation शक्तियां, and helicopters in an प्रयत्न to curb the स्प्रेड of साम्यवादी in South East एशिया.
The कैनेडी administration adopted the policy of the रणनीतिक हैमलेट कार्यक्रम which थी implemented by the South वियतनामी सरकारी.
It शामिल certain forced relocation, village internment, and पृथक्करण of ग्रामीण South वियतनामी इससे the northern and दक्षिणी communist insurgents.
Kennedy थी assassinated on November 22, 1963 in डलास, टेक्सास.
Lee Harvey Oswald थी charged साथ the अपराधों, लकिन he was shot and मारे by Jack माणिक्य दो days later, before a trial could लो प्लेस.
The एफबीआई and the वारेन Commission officially concluded that Oswald was the lone assassin.
however, the United राज्य हाउस Select कमेटी on assassinations ( hsca ) concluded कि those investigations यहूद flawed and that कैनेडी was probably assassinated as the परिणाम of a conspiracy.
however, ABC News in उनके छानबीन, The Kennedy Assassination : परे Conspiracy, पुष्टि the निष्कर्षों of the Warren आयोग ; having concluded ओसवाल्ड acted अलोन.
Kennedy 's controversial Department of Defense tfx सेनानी bomber कार्यक्रम led to a congressional छानबीन that lasted from 1963 to 1970.
Since the 1960s information concerning Kennedy 's private जीवन has आइये to light.
Details of Kennedy 's health problems in which he struggled have become बेहतर ज्ञात, विशेषकर since the 1990s.
Although initially kept secret from the सामान्य पब्लिक, reports of Kennedy 's philandering have garnered much press.
Kennedy बाँधने highly in public राय दरजा of u.S. presidents.
`` Stand by Me '' is a सोंग originally performed by Ben E. किंग और लिखा by King, जेरी leiber, और Mike stoller, प्रेरित by the spiritual `` Lord Stand by Me, '' plus दो लाइनों rooted in Psalms 46:2–3.
वहीँ have महरूम over 400 recorded versions of the सोंग.
a political cartoon from an 1894 पक पत्रिका by illustrator S.D. ehrhart, shows a फार्म woman labeled `` Democratic Party '' sheltering इससे a tornado of political change.
a metaphor is a figure of वाक that describes a विषय by asserting that it is, on some पाइंट of comparison, the same as another वरना unrelated object.
रूपक is a type of analogy and is closely सम्बन्धित to other rhetorical figures of वाक that achieve उनके प्रभाव via संघ, तुलना or resemblance including allegory, hyperbole, और simile.
in simpler शर्तें, a metaphor compares दो objects or things without using the words `` like '' or `` as ''.
One of the most prominent examples of a metaphor in English literature is the सब the world 's a stage monologue from As You जैसे It :
सब the संसार 's a स्टैगe,
And सब the मेन और महिलाओं merely खिलाड़ी ;
वे have their exits and their entrances ; — William शेक्सपियर, as You जैसे it, 2/7
इस उद्धरण is a रूपक क्युकी the world is not literally a स्टेज.
by figuratively asserting that the संसार is a stage, Shakespeare uses the points of comparison between the world and a स्टेज to convey an understanding about the यांत्रिकी of the संसार and the lives of the people within it.
माउंट Fuji, from the thirty-six Views of Mount फुजी, color woodcut by Katsushika Hokusai
rembrandt वैन rijn, Self-portrait, etching, c.1630
फ्रांसिस्को Goya, वहीँ is No One To Help उन्हें, Disasters of War series, aquatint c.1810
Felix Vallotton, la raison probante ( The Cogent Reason ), woodcut इससे the series Intimités, 1898
printmaking is the प्रक्रम of बनाना artworks by मुद्रण, normally on paper.
printmaking normally कवर तभी the प्रक्रम of बनाना prints with an तत्व of originality, बल्कि than बस being a photographic जनन of a painting.
Except in the case of monotyping, the process is सक्षम of producing multiples of the वही piece, which is called a छपाई.
प्रत्येक छपाई produced is नहीं considered a `` copy '' लकिन rather is considered an `` original ''.
इस is because typically प्रत्येक छपाई varies to an extent due to variables intrinsic to the printmaking प्रक्रम, और also because the imagery of a print is typically not simply a reproduction of another कार्य लकिन बल्कि is often a अद्वितीय चित्र designed from the start to be expressed in a particular printmaking तकनीक.
a print may be known as an छाप.
Printmaking ( other than monotyping ) is not chosen only लिये its ability to produce अनेक impressions, but rather for the unique qualities that each of the printmaking processes lends itself to.
prints हैं created by transferring ink from a मेट्रिक्स or through a prepared स्क्रीन to a चादर of पेपर or other material.
आम types of matrices शामिल : metal plates, usually copper or zinc, or polymer plates लिये engraving or etching ; stone, aluminum, or पॉलिमर लिये lithography ; blocks of wood लिये woodcuts and wood engravings ; और linoleum लिये linocuts.
screens made of silk or synthetic fabrics are used for the screenprinting process.
अन्य types of matrix substrates और सम्बन्धित प्रक्रियाओं are discussed नीचे.
अनेक impressions मुद्रित from the same मेट्रिक्स form an edition.
चूंकि the late 19th century, artists have generally हस्ताक्षरित individual impressions इससे an संस्करण and often number the impressions to form a limited edition.
prints may also be printed in किताब रूप, such as illustrated किताबे or artist 's किताबे.
il divo is an English बहुराष्ट्रीय operatic पॉप गायन समूह created by music मैनेजर, कार्यपालिका, and reality TV star साइमन Cowell.
Formed in the United किंगडम, they are also signed to Cowell 's record label, Syco म्यूज़िक.
il divo is a समूह of चार male गायकों : French pop singer Sébastien Izambard, स्पेनी baritone Carlos Marín, अमरीकी टेनर दाउद मिलर, और स्विस टेनर Urs Bühler.
To तिथि, वे have sold more than 26 million albums विश्वव्यापी.
Su-15, one of the प्रिंसिपल Soviet Air Defence interceptors in the 1970s और 1980s
an interceptor aircraft ( or simply interceptor ) is a प्रकार of सेनानी वायुयान designed specifically to prevent missions of enemy aircraft, particularly बमवर्षक and reconnaissance वायुयान, and destroy उन्हें, relying usually on ग्रेट गति और powerful armament.
Being प्रयुक्त चूंकि the पहला World War, बाद the लेट 1960s, interceptors became कम महत्वपूर्ण due to shifting from bombers to इंटरकांटिनेंटल बैलिस्टिक missiles ( ICBMs ) for नाभिकीय warfare.
A Vietnamese अमरीकी ( ) is an American of Vietnamese descent.
They make up about half of all overseas Vietnamese ( người việt Hải Ngoại ) and are the fourth-largest एशियाई अमरीकी समूह.
Mass वियतनामी आव्रजन to the United राज्य प्रारंभ after 1975, after the समाप्त of the Vietnam युद्ध.
Early immigrants were refugee नाव people fleeing persecution or poverty.
Forced to भागो इससे their मातृभूमि and प्रायः thrust into poor urban पड़ोस, these newcomers have nevertheless प्रबंधित to establish strong समुदायों in a short amount of time.
अधिक than साठ percent of Vietnamese अमेरिकी reside in the states of California, Texas, Washington, Florida, and Virginia.
Front पेज of the U.S. Armed शक्तियां newspaper, Stars और Stripes, 2 May 1945
Adolf हिटलर वचनबद्ध suicide by gunshot on 30 अप्रैल 1945 in his führerbunker in बर्लिन.
His wife एवा ( née braun ) committed suicide with उसे by ingesting cyanide.
कि दोपहर, in accordance with Hitler 's prior instructions, उनके remains were carried up the stairs through the बंकर 's emergency निकास, doused in पेट्रोल और set alight in the Reich Chancellery गार्डन बाहर the bunker.
the Soviet अभिलेख रिकार्ड कि their जले remains were recovered और interred in successive locations जबतक 1970 when they यहूद again exhumed, cremated और the राख बिखरे.
खाते differ as to the कारण of death ; one that he died by ज़हर तभी and another that he died by a self-inflicted gunshot, while biting down on a cyanide capsule.
Contemporary इतिहासकारों have rejected these खाते as होने either Soviet प्रचार or an attempted compromise in अनुक्रम to reconcile the different conclusions.
One eye-witness recorded कि the देह दिखाया लक्षण of having been शॉट through the mouth, but this रै महरूम proven असंभावित.
वहीँ is also विवाद regarding the authenticity of skull और jaw fragments which यहूद बरामद.
In 2009, डीएनए tests were performed on a skull सोवियत officials had long believed to be हिटलर 's.
The tests नाज़िल कि the skull थी दरअसल कि of a स्त्री less than 40 सालो बूढ़ा.
स्थान of मिसौरी
the दारू laws of Missouri are among the least restrictive and सबसे lax और permissive in the United States.
मिसौरी is known throughout the Midwest for इसके largely laissez-faire approach to alcohol विनियमन, in sharp contrast to the very strict दारू laws of कुछ of इसके पड़ोसी, like Kansas और ओक्लाहोमा.
necrotizing fasciitis ( or ) or NF, commonly known as flesh-eating disease or flesh-eating जीवाणु सिंड्रोम, is a rare संक्रमण of the deeper layers of स्किन and subcutaneous ऊतकों, easily spreading across the fascial plane भीतर the subcutaneous ऊतक.
necrotizing fasciitis is quickly progressing, having greater risk of developing in the immunocompromised due to conditions like diabetes, cancer, etc.
It is a severe disease of sudden onset and is प्रायः treated तत्काल साथ high doses of intravenous antibiotics.
Type I describes a polymicrobial infection, whereas Type II describes a monomicrobial संक्रमण.
Many types of bacteria can cause necrotizing fasciitis ( e.g., समूह a streptococcus ( streptococcus pyogenes ), staphylococcus aureus, Clostridium perfringens, bacteroides fragilis, Aeromonas hydrophila ).
Such infections हैं अधिक संभावित to occur in people with compromised immune प्रणालियों.
historically, Group A streptococcus made up most मामले of प्रकार II infections.
however, since as जल्दी as 2001, another serious form of monomicrobial necrotizing fasciitis has महरूम observed with increasing आवृत्ति, caused by methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus ( मरसा ).
कुछ published case reports have implied a संभावित link between use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory दवाएँ और nf, though the प्रमाण of the link was said to be कमजोर क्युकी of a small number of case patients and it was unclear whether the drugs बस masked the लक्षण of a secondary infection or were a कारण प्रति se.
World War II ( wwii or ww2 ), also known as the Second World युद्ध, थी a वैश्विक युद्ध that lasted इससे 1939 to 1945.
it involved the vast majority of the संसार 's राष्ट्र —including all of the ग्रेट powers —eventually forming दो opposing military alliances : the Allies and the अक्ष.
It थी the सबसे widespread युद्ध in इतिहास, साथ अधिक than 100 million लोगों serving in सैन्य इकाई from over 30 different countries.
In a राज्य of `` total war ``, the major भागीदार placed उनके संपूर्ण economic, औद्योगिक, and scientific capabilities at the service of the war प्रयत्न, erasing the भेद between civilian and military संसाधन.
Marked by mass मौतों of civilians, including the Holocaust and the तभी use of nuclear weapons in warfare, it resulted in 50 million to over 75 लाख fatalities.
ये मौतों make World युद्ध II by दूर the deadliest conflict in human history.
the Empire of Japan aimed to dominate ईस्ट एशिया and was already at war with the गणतंत्र of China in 1937, but the world war is generally कहा to have begun on 1 सितंबर 1939 with the आक्रमण of कैंडल by Germany और subsequent declarations of war on Germany by France and Britain.
From लेट 1939 to early 1941, in a series of campaigns and treaties, Germany formed the Axis alliance साथ इटली, conquering or subduing much of continental Europe.
Following the molotov–ribbentrop Pact, जर्मनी and the सोवियत Union partitioned and annexed territories between themselves of their यूरोपीय neighbours, including Poland.
the संयुक्त किंगडम and the other members of the अंग्रेजों Commonwealth were the तभी प्रमुख अलाइड forces continuing the लड़ो विरूद्ध the अक्ष, with battles taking place in उत्तर Africa as खूब as the long-running Battle of the Atlantic.
In जून 1941, the European अक्ष launched an आक्रमण of the Soviet संघ, giving a start to the largest land theatre of war in इतिहास, which tied bas the major part of the Axis ' सैन्य forces लिये the rest of the war.
In December 1941, Japan joined the अक्ष, attacked the United राज्य और यूरोपीय territories in the Pacific Ocean, and जल्दी conquered much of the पश्चिमी प्रशांत.
the Axis अग्रिम was stopped in 1942, बाद Japan खोया a श्रेणी of naval लड़ाइयों and European Axis troops were defeated in North Africa and, decisively, at stalingrad.
In 1943, साथ a श्रेणी of जर्मनी defeats in Eastern Europe, the Allied invasion of Italy, और American victories in the प्रशांत, the अक्ष lost the पहल and undertook strategic रिट्रीट on सब fronts.
In 1944, the Western allies invaded France, while the सोवियत Union regained all of इसके territorial नुकसान and invaded जर्मनी और its allies.
During 1944 and 1945 the United States पराजित the Japanese Navy और captured कुंजी पश्चिमी प्रशांत islands.
The war in यूरोपीय ended with the capture of Berlin by Soviet and Polish troops and the subsequent German unconditional surrender on 8 May 1945.
following the पॉट्सडैम घोषणा by the allies on 26 July 1945, the United राज्य dropped परमाणु bombs on the Japanese शहरों of Hiroshima on 6 अगस्त, और Nagasaki on 9 अगस्त.
With an आक्रमण of the Japanese archipelago निकट, and the सोवियत Union having घोषित war on Japan by आक्रमणकारी Manchuria, Japan surrendered on 15 August 1945, समाप्ति the युद्ध in Asia और cementing the कुल victory of the Allies over the Axis.
संसार War ii altered the political alignment और social ढांचा of the world.
The संयुक्त Nations ( un ) थी स्थापित to foster international cooperation और prevent future विरोध.
the great शक्तियां कि यहूद the victors of the war—the संयुक्त राज्य, the सोवियत Union, China, the संयुक्त किंगडम, और france—became the permanent members of the United राष्ट्र सुरक्षा Council.
The Soviet संघ and the United States emerged as rival superpowers, setting the stage लिये the Cold युद्ध, जिससे lasted लिये the अगला 46 years.
Meanwhile, the influence of European ग्रेट powers started to decline, while the decolonisation of Asia and Africa began.
सबसे countries whose उद्योग had been damaged स्थानांतरित towards आर्थिक रिकवरी.
Political integration, especially in Europe, emerged as an effort to stabilise postwar relations and लड़ो अधिक effectively in the ठंडा युद्ध.
a limited liability company ( llc ) is a लचीली रूप of enterprise कि blends तत्व of साझेदारी and कॉरपोरेट structures.
Note than an llc is not a corporation, and कॉलिंग an llc a corporation is technically गलत.
an LLC is a विधिक form of company that provides सीमित देयता to इसके owners in the vast majority of United राज्य jurisdictions.
llcs do नहीं need to be organized for profit.
Five k-cups
The inside of a used k-cup, with the शीर्ष foil and the used coffee grounds removed.
This shows the filter अंदर the k-cup.
k-cup portion पैक are used साथ Keurig or अन्य single cup brewing systems to काढ़ा a कप of कॉफी, चाय, or hot chocolate.
Each k-cup is a plastic संग्राहक साथ a coffee filter अंदर.
मैदान कॉफी beans are packed in the k-cup and sealed air-tight साथ a संयोजन प्लास्टिक और foil lid.
जब the K-Cup is placed in a keurig brewer, the brewer punctures the foil lid and the नीचे of the k-cup and शक्तियां hot जल under दबाव through the k-cup and into a mug.
keurig पंक्तियां इसके K-Cup technology to कॉफी roasters and tea makers such as Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, diedrich/ Gloria जीन्स, Timothy 's संसार कॉफी, Van Houtte, Caribou Coffee, Celestial Seasonings, bigelow Tea Company, Twinings, टली 's, Coffee लोगों और न्युमैन 's अपना.
Keurig 's patents on the original k-cup डिज़ाइन समाप्त in September 2012.
keurig holds at least एक additional, still-active US patent and another patent अनुप्रयोग, detailing सुधार that have subsequently been incorporated in उनके K-Cup डिज़ाइन.
electa जेब Chronograph ( ca. 1890s ) manufactured by the Gallet Watch कम्पनी in La Chaux-de-Fonds, स्विट्ज़रलैंड.
Gallet MultiChron astronomic ( ca. 1959 ) —complex mechanical chronograph साथ 12 घंटा recoding capabilities, automatic दिन, date, माह, और moon phase प्रदर्शक
A आधुनिक Seiko quartz wristwatch using the chronograph फलन ( movement 7T92 ).
नागरिक Atessa Eco-Drive atv53-3023 analog-digital chronograph साथ 4 क्षेत्रफल Radio Controlled reception ( उत्तर America, Europe, China, Japan ).
a chronograph is a specific type of देखें that is प्रयुक्त as a stopwatch combined with a प्रदर्शक देखें.
A basic chronograph has an independent sweep दूसरी hand ; it can be started, रोका, and returned to zero by successive pressure on the stem.
Louis Moinet invented the chronograph in 1816
Conventional पीसीआई ( पीसीआई is an initialism formed from परिधीय Component इंटरकनेक्ट, part of the PCI लोकल बस standard और often shortened to बस PCI ) is a local computer bus for attaching हार्डवेयर डिवाइस in a कंप्यूटर.
The पीसीआई bus supports the कृत्यों मिला on a प्रोसेसर बस, but in a standardized format that is स्वतंत्र of कोई particular प्रोसेसर.
डिवाइस connected to the bus appear to the प्रोसेसर to be connected सीधे to the processor बस, और हैं आबंटित addresses in the processor 's address space.
Attached devices can take either the रूप of an integrated सर्किट fitted onto the मदरबोर्ड itself, called a planar device in the PCI specification, or an विस्तार कार्ड that fits into a slot.
the PCI Local Bus थी first implemented in ibm PC compatibles, जहाँ it विस्थापित the संयोजन of ISA plus one VESA Local Bus as the bus विन्यास.
It रै subsequently been अपनाया for other computer types.
PCI and PCI-X are होने replaced by पीसीआई Express, लकिन, सबसे motherboards are still made साथ एक or more पीसीआई slots, which are sufficient for many uses.
the पीसीआई specification covers the physical size of the बस ( including the आकार और spacing of the circuit फलक किनारे electrical contacts ), electrical characteristics, bus timing, and protocols.
The specification can be purchased इससे the PCI खास Interest Group ( PCI-SIG ).
ठेठ PCI ताश used in PCs शामिल : संजाल ताश, sound cards, modems, extra ports such as USB or serial, tv tuner cards and disk परिरक्षक.
PCI वीडियो ताश replaced isa and VESA ताश, until growing bandwidth आवश्यकताएँ outgrew the capabilities of पीसीआई ; the preferred interface लिये वीडियो ताश became अगप, and then PCI एक्स्प्रेस.
PCI video ताश remain उपलब्धियाँ for उपयोग साथ old PCs बगैर AGP or PCI Express slots.
Many devices previously provided on पीसीआई विस्तार cards are now commonly integrated onto motherboards or उपलब्धियाँ in universal serial bus और पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस संस्करण.
Michael Whitaker स्मिथ ( born अक्तूबर 7, 1957 ) is an अमरीकी contemporary ईसाई संगीतकार, who रै charted primarily in the समकालीन Christian and occasionally in the मुख्यधारा charts.
उसके biggest success in मुख्यधारा म्यूज़िक was in 1991 when `` Place in this World '' hit No. 6 on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100.
Smith is a three-time ग्रैमी पुरस्कार winner, and has अर्जित 40 Dove पुरस्कार.
Over the course of उसके career, he sold more than 13 million albums और recorded 29 No. 1 Hit songs, चौदह सुनहरा albums, and five platinum albums.
Smith is an American म्यूज़िक Award प्राप्तकर्ता ; he थी भी नामित एक of People पत्रिका 's `` सबसे खूबसूरत People ''.
An अमरीकी poster from the संसार युद्ध ii -era कि was used to inform लोगों परिचय what they चाहिए do if वे suspect sabotage.
तोड़फोड़ is a deliberate action aimed at weakening another entity through subversion, रुकावट, disruption, or destruction.
In a workplace setting, तोड़फोड़ is the conscious withdrawal of efficiency generally directed at causing some बदलें in कार्यस्थल शर्तें.
One जो engages in sabotage is a saboteur.
As a rule, saboteurs कोशिश to छिपाते their identities क्युकी of the consequences of their actions.
लिये उदाहरण, whereas an environmental दबाव group might be प्रसन्न to be identified साथ an act of sabotage, it होता नहीं want the individual identities of the perpetrators known.
पैट्रिक हेनरी कॉलेज ( PHC ) is a private, independent college साथ an Evangelical Christian basis that focuses on शिक्षण शास्त्रीय उदार arts and government, स्तिथ in Purcellville, Virginia, संयुक्त राज्य.
Patrick Henry is known लिये its रूढ़िवादी धर्मान्तरण ईसाई फ़ोकस.
as of April 17, 2007, the कॉलेज was accredited by the transnational संघ of Christian Colleges and स्कूलों, a national faith-related accrediting संगठन recognized by the विभाग of शिक्षा and the परिषद for Higher Education Accreditation.
The स्कूल was संस्थापित with the help of the घर स्कूल Legal रक्षा Association, और अभी serves as the headquarters लिये the organization, साथ which it is स्टिल closely connected.
The history of टेलीविज़न comprises the work of numerous engineers और inventors in अनेक countries over अनेक decades.
The earliest प्रस्ताव was in 1908, in a पेपर by A. A. Campbell-Swinton and postulated the उपयोग of कैथोड rays.
the first practical demonstrations of television, however, यहूद developed using electromechanical विधि to स्कैन, संचारण, and reproduce an चित्र.
As electronic कैमरा and display tubes were perfected, electromechanical television gave way to all-electronic प्रणालियों in nearly all अनुप्रयोग.
L'Idéal cinéma - ज़ाक Tati at Aniche opened November 23rd 1905 ; the oldest still-active movie थिएटर in the world
A सिनेमा in ऑस्ट्रेलिया
A ठेठ मल्टीप्लेक्स ( एएमसी Promenade 16 in Woodland पहाड़ियाँ, Los Angeles, U.S. )
A फिल्म theater ( also पुकारा a सिनेमा, फिल्म house, film house, फिल्मी theater or picture हाउस ) is a venue, usually a building, for देखने films.
सबसे लकिन not सब movie थिएटर हैं वाणिज्यिक operations catering to the general पब्लिक, जो attend by खरीदना a ticket.
The movie is projected with a फिल्म प्रोजेक्टर onto a विशाल projection screen at the सामने of the auditorium.
सबसे फिल्म theaters हैं अभी equipped लिये digital सिनेमा projection, निकालना the need to बनाएँ and transport a physical film print.
दक्षिणी California नॉर्टन मालिक 's Club on California State Route 41, निकट Creston.
A मोटरसाइकिल club is a group of individuals whose प्राथमिक interest और activities involve motorcycles.
lyme बीमारी, lyme borreliosis is an संक्रामक बीमारी caused by at least three species of bacteria belonging to the genus Borrelia.
Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto is the main cause of lyme बीमारी in उत्तर America, whereas Borrelia afzelii and Borrelia garinii cause most European मामले.
the disease is नामित after the कस्बों of Lyme and Old Lyme, Connecticut, USA, जहाँ a number of cases were identified in 1975.
हालांकि एलन Steere realized कि Lyme बीमारी was a tick-borne disease in 1978, the कारण of the disease remained a रहस्य जबतक 1981, जब B. burgdorferi थी identified by विली Burgdorfer.
lyme बीमारी is the most common tick-borne बीमारी in the उत्तरी Hemisphere.
Borrelia is transmitted to इंसानो by the bite of infected ticks belonging to a few प्रजाति of the genus ixodes ( `` hard ticks '' ).
Early symptoms may include ज्वर, सिरदर्द, थकान, अवसाद, और a characteristic circular स्किन खाज पुकारा erythema migrans ( em ).
बाएँ अनुपचारित, later symptoms may involve the joints, heart, and central बेचैन प्रणाली.
In most cases, the infection and its लक्षण हैं eliminated by एंटीबायोटिक, विशेषकर if the illness is treated early.
विलम्बित or अपर्याप्त treatment can सीसे to more गंभीर symptoms, जिससे can be disabling and difficult to दावत.
Penises of minke whales on प्रदर्शक at the आइसलैंडिक phallological संग्रहालय
शिश्न ( plural penises or penes ) is a general term लिये the अंगों with जिससे male और उभयलिंगी animals introduce शुक्राणु into receptive females during copulation.
Such organs occur in अनेक पशु, both vertebrate और invertebrate, but males do नहीं भालू a शिश्न in every animal प्रजाति, and in those species in जिससे the पुरूष करता भालू a so-called शिश्न, the penes in the various species are नहीं necessarily समजात.
लिये example, the शिश्न of a mammal is at सबसे analogous to the penis of a पुरूष insect or barnacle.
the term शिश्न applies to many reproductive intromittent अंगों, लकिन not to सब ; लिये उदाहरण the intromittent अंग of most cephalopoda is the hectocotylus, a specialised arm, and पुरूष मकड़ियों use उनके pedipalps.
In सबसे species of पशु in जिससे there is an organ कि might reasonably be described as a penis, it has no प्रमुख फलन अन्य than intromission, or at तनिक conveying the sperm to the female, but in the placental स्तनधारियों the penis bears the distal भाग of the urethra, which discharges both मूत्र during urination and वीर्य during copulation as the occasion requires.
Artists और रंगमंडल ( A & r ) is the प्रभाग of a रिकार्ड label or music प्रकाशन company कि is responsible लिये talent scouting और overseeing the कलाकारी development of रिकॉर्डिंग artists and/or songwriters.
It also acts as a liaison between कलाकारों और the record label or प्रकाशन company ; every कार्यकलाप involving artists to the point of एल्बम release is generally माना under the purview of, और responsibility of, a & r.
A furlong is a measure of अलहदा in इम्पीरियल इकाई और U.S. प्रथागत units equal to one-eighth of a mile, equivalent to 220 yards, 660 feet, 40 छड़, or 10 जंजीरों.
the सटीक value of the furlong varies slightly among English-speaking countries.
पाँच furlongs हैं approximately 1 kilometre ( 1.0058 km is a closer सन्निकटन ).
Since the original परिभाषा of the मीटर was one-quarter of एक ten-millionth of the परिधि of the Earth ( along the great circle coincident with the meridian of longitude passing through पेरिस ), the circumference of the धरती is about 40,000 km or about 200,000 furlongs.
CR2032 lithium button कोशिका battery
Lithium 9 volt, AA, & AAA sizes
Lithium बैटरी are डिस्पोजेबल ( primary ) batteries कि have लिथियम metal or लिथियम compounds as an anode.
वे स्टैंड apart from अन्य batteries in उनके high charge density ( long life ) और high cost per unit.
Depending on the design and chemical compounds used, लिथियम cells can produce voltages from 1.5 V ( comparable to a zinc–carbon or alkaline battery ) to about 3.7 V. Lithium batteries are widely प्रयुक्त in उत्पाद such as portable consumer इलेक्ट्रॉनिक devices.
Raymond `` रे '' Charles Jack LaMontagne ( ; born जून 18, 1973 ) is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter.
LaMontagne has released four studio albums, Trouble, Till the Sun Turns ब्लैक, Gossip in the Grain और परमेश्वर willin ' & the Creek Do n't वृद्धि.
he थी born in New हैम्पशायर and was inspired to बनाएँ म्यूज़िक after सुनना an एल्बम by Stephen Stills.
आलोचकों have compared lamontagne 's म्यूज़िक to कि of The बैंड, Van मॉरिसन, Nick Drake, और टिम Buckley.
He lives in मैसाचुसेट्स साथ his wife and two children.
When the Wind Blows is a novel by James Patterson.
It is the precursor to the Lake हाउस and inspired the Maximum Ride श्रेणी.
the अनोखा is फिलहाल set to be adapted into a फिल्म.
The Pittsburgh Steelers were संस्थापित in 1933.
Over the कोर्स of the team 's history, the team has था several logos जबकि wearing virtually the same uniforms over the सालो, with हल्का परिवर्तन made to give the uniforms an updated look.
the team colors, uniforms, and logo हैं often क्रमित as being among the best in the NFL.
Facebook on the ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online social networking service, जिनकी name stems इससे the colloquial name for the book given to students at the start of the academic साल by some university administrations in the संयुक्त States to help students मिलेंगी to जान each other.
it was संस्थापित in फ़रवरी 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg साथ his college roommates and fellow Harvard University विद्यार्थी एडुआर्डो saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes.
the website 's membership थी initially limited by the founders to Harvard students, but was expanded to other colleges in the Boston क्षेत्रफल, the आइवी League, और स्टैनफोर्ड University.
it धीरे added support for students at विभिन्न other विश्वविद्यालयों पहले opening to high स्कूल students, and आखिरकार to anyone aged 13 and over.
फेसबुक अभी allows कोई users who declare themselves to be at least 13 सालो old to become registered users of the साईट.
उपयोक्ता जरूर register before using the साईट, बाद which वे may create a निजी प्रोफ़ाइल, add अन्य users as friends, and एक्सचेंज messages, सहित automatic notifications जब वे update their प्रोफ़ाइल.
Additionally, उपयोक्ता may join common-interest user groups, व्यवस्थित by workplace, स्कूल or college, or other characteristics, and categorize उनके friends into lists such as `` People From कार्य '' or `` Close Friends ''.
As of सितंबर 2012, Facebook has over one billion active users.
According to a may 2011 उपभोक्ता रिपोर्ट्स सर्वेक्षण, there are 7.5 million children under 13 साथ accounts and 5 लाख under 10, violating the site 's शर्तें of सेवा.
in May 2005, accel partners invested $ 12.7 लाख in Facebook, और Jim Breyer added $ 1 million of उसके अपना money to the pot.
a January 2009 Compete.com study क्रमित Facebook as the सबसे प्रयुक्त social networking service by worldwide monthly active उपयोक्ता.
entertainment Weekly included the साईट on इसके end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list, saying, `` कैसा on धरती किया we stalk our exes, remember हमारी co-workers ' जन्मदिन, bug our friends, and play a rousing खेल of Scrabulous before फेसबुक ? ''
आलोचकों, such as Facebook detox, state that Facebook has turned into a national obsession in the United राज्य, resulting in विशाल amounts of time खोया and encouraging आत्ममोह.
Quantcast estimates Facebook has 138.9 million मासिक unique u.S. विज़िटर in May 2011.
according to सोशल Media Today, in April 2010 an अनुमानित 41.6 % ( 129.5 लाख ) of the U.S. जनसांख्यिकी था a Facebook account.
nevertheless, फेसबुक 's market growth प्रारंभ to स्टाल in some regions, साथ the साईट losing 7 million active उपयोक्ता in the United States and Canada in May 2011.
फेसबुक आखिरकार filed for an आरंभिक पब्लिक offering on February 1, 2012, और was headquartered in Menlo Park, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
फेसबुक Inc. began selling stock to the public and trading on the NASDAQ on May 18, 2012.
अर्विन Johannes Eugen ख़बरों ( 15 November 1891 – 14 अक्तूबर 1944 ), popularly known as The Desert Fox ( wüstenfuchs, ), was a जर्मनी फ़ील्ड Marshal of World War II.
he अर्जित the आदर of both उसके अपना troops और the enemies he लड़ा.
Rommel was a highly सजा अधिकारी in World War i और was awarded the डालना le Mérite लिये his exploits on the इतालवी front.
In World War ii, he further distinguished himself as the commander of the 7th Panzer प्रभाग during the 1940 invasion of France.
उसके leadership of German and इतालवी forces in the उत्तर African campaign established him as एक of the most समर्थ commanders of the war, and earned him the appellation of the मरुस्थल Fox.
He is regarded as एक of the most skilled commanders of मरुस्थल warfare in the विरोध.
he बाद commanded the German forces opposing the Allied cross-channel invasion in Normandy.
His assignments never took him to the Eastern Front.
ख़बरों is regarded as having महरूम a दयालु और professional officer.
उसके afrika Korps थी never accused of युद्ध crimes, and सैनिको captured during उसके Africa campaign were reported to have महरूम treated humanely.
आदेश to kill Jewish soldiers, नागरिकों and captured commandos यहूद ignored.
Late in the war, Rommel was linked to the conspiracy to assassinate Adolf Hitler.
चूंकि ख़बरों was a नेशनल hero, हिटलर desired to eliminate उसे चुपचाप.
he forced ख़बरों to commit suicide with a cyanide pill, in वापसी लिये आश्वासनों that Rommel 's family would नहीं be persecuted following his मौत.
Stained glass representation of the Holy Spirit as a dove, c. 1660.
The seven उपहार of the Holy स्पिरिट is an enumeration of seven spiritual उपहार originating साथ patristic authors, later elaborated by five intellectual virtues and four अन्य समूह of ethical characteristics.
They are : wisdom, understanding, wonder and डरते ( fear of the Lord ), counsel, knowledge, fortitude, और piety ( reverence ).
the Earth Day Flag, the नवीनतम proposal of जॉन mcconnell लिये a flag of Earth Day
Earth Day is an सालाना इवेंट, celebrated on अप्रैल 22, on which कार्यक्रम are held विश्वव्यापी to demonstrate support for पर्यावरणीय protection.
it थी first celebrated in 1970, and is अभी coordinated globally by the Earth Day Network, and celebrated in अधिक than 192 countries प्रत्येक साल.
In 1969 at a युनेस्को Conference in San Francisco, the date प्रस्तावित was कूच 21, 1970, the first day of spring in the उत्तरी hemisphere.
इस day of nature 's equipoise was बाद sanctioned in a Proclamation signed by Secretary सामान्य U Thant at the संयुक्त Nations.
a month later a separate धरती Day was संस्थापित by United States Senator Gaylord नेल्सन as an environmental teach-in first आयोजित on अप्रैल 22, 1970.
Nelson was later awarded the अध्यक्षीय पदक of Freedom Award in recognition of his work.
While इस April 22 Earth दिन was focused on the United राज्य, an संगठन launched by डेनिस Hayes, who was the original national coordinator in 1970, took it अंतरराष्ट्रीय in 1990 और व्यवस्थित events in 141 nations.
Numerous समुदायों celebrate Earth सप्ताह, an entire week of क्रियाएँ focused on पर्यावरणीय issues.
Iodine is a रासायनिक element with प्रतीक i and परमाणु number 53.
The name is इससे Greek ioeidēs, meaning बैंगनी or जामुनी, due to the color of elemental आयोडीन vapor.
आयोडीन and its यौगिकों are primarily used in nutrition, और industrially in the उत्पादन of acetic acid and certain polymers.
Iodine 's relatively high atomic number, low toxicity, and ease of attachment to organic compounds have made it a part of many X-ray contrast materials in modern medicine.
Iodine has only one stable समस्थानिक.
A number of आयोडीन radioisotopes are also used in चिकित्सा अनुप्रयोग.
Iodine is मिला on धरती मुख्यतः as the अत्यधिक water-soluble iodide आयन, i−, जिससे concentrates it in oceans and brine pools.
जैसे the अन्य halogens, free आयोडीन occurs mainly as a diatomic अणु I2, and then only momentarily after being oxidized इससे iodide by an oxidant जैसे फ़्री oxygen.
In the ब्रह्मांड and on Earth, iodine 's high atomic number makes it a relatively rare element.
However, its presence in ocean जल has दिए it a भूमिका in biology.
it is the heaviest अनिवार्य तत्व utilized widely by जीवन in biological functions ( तभी tungsten, employed in एंजाइमों by a few प्रजाति of bacteria, is अत्यधिक ).
Iodine 's rarity in many soils, due to initial low abundance as a crust-element, और also leaching of घुलनशील आयोडाइड by rainwater, रै led to many deficiency problems in land animals and inland human populations.
आयोडीन deficiency affects about two billion people और is the leading preventable cause of बौद्धिक disabilities.
Iodine is जरूरी by higher animals, which उपयोग it to synthesize थायराइड हार्मोन, जिससे contain the तत्व.
क्युकी of this function, radioisotopes of आयोडीन are concentrated in the thyroid gland साथ साथ nonradioactive आयोडीन.
if inhaled, the radioisotope iodine-131, जिससे रै a ऊँची परिवर्द्धन product yield, concentrates in the thyroid, लकिन is easily remedied with पोटैशियम आयोडाइड उपचार.
Lobbying ( also lobby ) is the act of attempting to influence decisions made by officials in the government, सबसे often legislators or members of regulatory agencies.
Lobbying is done by many अलग types of people और व्यवस्थित groups, सहित individuals in the private sector, corporations, fellow legislators or सरकारी officials, or वकालत groups ( ब्याज groups ).
Lobbyists may be among a legislator 's constituencies, meaning a voter or bloc of voters within his or उसके electoral district, or not ; they may engage in lobbying as a कारोबार, or not.
पेशेवर lobbyists are people जिनकी कारोबार is trying to influence legislation on behalf of a समूह or individual who hires उन्हें.
Individuals और nonprofit संगठन can also lobby as an act of volunteering or as a छोटी भाग of उनके normal job ( लिये उदाहरण, a सीईओ meeting with a प्रतिनिधि परिचय a project महत्वपूर्ण to his/her कम्पनी, or an activist meeting साथ his/her विधायक in an unpaid capacity ).
सरकारें प्रायः define and विनियमित व्यवस्थित समूह lobbying कि has become influential.
the ethics और नैतिकता of lobbying हैं.
lobbying is often spoken of साथ अवमानना, when the implication is that people with inordinate socioeconomic शक्ति are corrupting the विधि ( टेढ़ी it away from निष्पक्षता ) in order to serve उनके own conflict of interest.
But another side of lobbying is making यकीनन that others ' interests are विधिवत defended against अन्य ' भ्रष्टाचार, or even बस बनाना sure that minority रूचि are fairly defended against mere जुल्म of the majority.
लिये example, a medical association, or a व्यापार association of health insurance कंपनियाँ, may lobby a legislature in order to counteract the influence of तम्बाकू कंपनियाँ, in जिससे मामला the lobbying would be viewed by सबसे people as justified ( duly defending against अन्य ' भ्रष्टाचार ).
The difficulty in drawing उद्देश्य lines between which lobbyists are `` good lobbyists '' और जिससे ones are `` ख़राब ones '' is compounded by the cleverness with जिससे lobbyists or their क्लाइंट can argue that their own lobbying is of the `` शुभ '' kind.
At heart, the effort to influence legislation is a शक्ति struggle.
As in other फ़ॉर्म of शक्ति संघर्ष, such as war or law enforcement, motives range from to self-defense to fighting for justice, and the dividing line between predation और इंसाफ is subject to rationalization.
Sunshine of your प्रेम guitar riff
मलाई यहूद a 1960s अंग्रेजों rock supergroup consisting of bassist/vocalist जोकर Bruce, guitarist/vocalist Eric Clapton, and drummer अदरक Baker.
Their sound थी characterised by a संकर of blues चट्टान, hard rock और साइकेडेलिक चट्टान, combining the psychedelia-themed lyrics, Eric Clapton 's blues guitar playing and vocals, Jack Bruce 's आवाज़ और prominent bass playing and Ginger Baker 's जैज़ -influenced drumming.
the group 's तीसरा एल्बम, Wheels of आग, was the world 's पहला platinum-selling दोगुना album.
Cream are widely regarded as being the world 's first successful supergroup.
In their career, they बेची over 15 million एल्बम worldwide.
Cream 's म्यूज़िक included गीतों based on traditional ब्लूज़ ऐसे as `` Crossroads `` और `` Spoonful ``, और आधुनिक ब्लूज़ ऐसे as `` Born Under a Bad Sign ``, as well as more eccentric songs ऐसे as `` Strange Brew ``, `` किस्से of Brave ulysses `` and `` Toad ``.
मलाई 's biggest हिट्स were `` I महसूस Free `` ( UK, number 11 ), `` Sunshine of अपना Love `` ( US, क्रमांक 5 ), `` White रूम `` ( US, number 6 ), `` Crossroads '' ( US, number 28 ), और `` Badge `` ( UK, number 18 ).
Cream बना a significant impact on the लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक of the time, and, साथ साथ Jimi Hendrix, और टेरी कठ of शिकागो, popularised the use of the wah-wah पैदल.
They provided a heavy yet technically निपुण musical theme that foreshadowed और बहकावे the emergence of British bands such as the जेफ़ बेक Group in the लेट 1960s.
the band 's live प्रदर्शन बहकावे progressive rock acts such as Rush.
Cream were inducted into the Rock और फेंकें हॉल of कीर्ति in 1993.
They were शामिल in both Rolling Stone and vh1 's lists of the `` 100 Greatest कलाकारों of सब समय ''.
They were also ranked number 16 on VH1 's `` 100 Greatest Artists of मुश्किल Rock ''.
hairspray is a 1988 comedy film written और directed by जॉन waters, और अभिनीत ricki झील, Sonny Bono, Debbie Harry, माइकल st. Gerard, Shawn थॉम्पसन, Colleen Fitzpatrick, Jerry Stiller, और in उसके पिछला फिल्मी role, Divine.
Hairspray was a नाटकीय प्रस्थान from Waters ' earlier works, with a much broader intended दर्शक.
In फैक्ट, Hairsprays PG is the mildest rating a Waters film has received ; most of his previous films यहूद रेटेड X by the mpaa.
नियत in 1962 Baltimore, मेरीलैंड, the फिल्मी घूमती around self-proclaimed `` pleasantly plump '' किशोरावस्था Tracy Turnblad as वो pursues स्टारडम as a dancer on a local TV show और rallies विरूद्ध जातिगत पृथक्करण.
Hairspray was only a moderate कामयाबी upon its आरंभिक theatrical release, कमाई a modest gross of $ 8 million.
however, it managed to आकर्षित a larger audience on घर video in the early 1990s और became a cult classic.
Most आलोचकों praised the फिल्मी, although कुछ यहूद displeased with the overall campiness.
In 2002, the फिल्मी was adapted into a Broadway musical of the same name, which won eight टोनी Awards, including बेहतरीन musical in 2003.
A दूसरी film संस्करण of hairspray, an adaptation of the स्टेज musical, was also released by नई लकीर सिनेमा in 2007, which included many changes of scripted वस्तुएं from the असली.
the फिल्मी भी ranks # 444 on Empire magazine 's 2008 list of the 500 greatest movies of all समय.
a Christian denomination is an identifiable religious body अंतर्गत a आम नाम, ढांचा, and doctrine within Christianity.
कुछ groups शामिल do नहीं consider themselves a denomination ( e.g., the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर considers itself the एक true church और the अपोस्टोलिक देखिए, and as pre-denominational ).
Some समूह viewed by non-adherents as denominational actively resist being called a denomination and do नहीं have कोई formal denominational structure, प्राधिकार, or record-keeping परे the लोकल congregation ; several समूह within बहाली Movement पतन into इस श्रेणी.
कुछ groups हैं विशाल ( e.g. catholics, Lutherans, anglicans or baptists ), जबकि others are just a few छोटी चर्च, and in सबसे cases the relative आकार is नहीं evident in this सूची.
Modern movements such as Fundamentalist christianity, Pietism, evangelicalism, Pentecostalism and the Holiness movement sometimes क्रॉस denominational लाइनों, or in कुछ cases बनाएँ नई denominations out of two or अधिक continuing समूह, ( as is the मामला for अनेक संयुक्त and uniting churches, लिये उदाहरण ).
Such subtleties और complexities are not clearly चित्रित here.
प्रमुख विभाजन भीतर Christianity.
नोट : This is not a complete सूची, but aims to provide a comprehensible अवलोकन of the diversity among denominations of Christianity.
as there हैं reported to be approximately 41,000 Christian denominations, many of जिससे can not be verified to be significant, only those denominations साथ Wikipedia articles होगा be listed in order to ensure that सब entries on this सूची हैं notable और verifiable.
Between denominations, theologians, और comparative religionists there हैं considerable मतभिन्नता परिचय जिससे समूह can be properly पुकारा Christian, मतभिन्नता arising primarily इससे doctrinal मतभेद between groups.
लिये the purpose of simplicity, इस list is intended to reflect the self-understanding of each denomination.
Explanations of different राय concerning their status as Christian denominations can be मिला at उनके respective articles.
There is no official recognition in most parts of the संसार लिये religious bodies, and there is no official clearinghouse जिससे could determine the औकात or respectability of धार्मिक bodies.
Often there is considerable असहमति between various चर्च about whether अन्य चर्च चाहिए be labeled साथ pejorative terms ऐसे as `` cult '', or about whether this or that group enjoys कुछ माप of respectability.
ऐसे considerations प्रायः vary from place to प्लेस, where एक religious समूह may आनंद बहुमत औकात in एक region, लकिन be widely regarded as a `` dangerous cult '' in another भाग of the संसार.
Inclusion on this सूची करता नहीं indicate कोई निर्णय परिचय the आकार, importance, or अक्षर of a group or इसके सदस्यों.
1804 map of `` louisiana ``, edged on the वेस्ट by the Rocky kyu.
The louisiana खरीदें ( `` बिक्री of Louisiana '' ) was the अधिग्रहण by the United States of America in 1803 of of France 's अर्जी to the territory of louisiana.
the U.S. paid 50 million francs ( $ 11,250,000 ) प्लस cancellation of debts worth 18 लाख francs ( $ 3,750,000 ), for a कुल sum of 15 लाख डॉलर ( कम than 3 cents प्रति एकड़ ) for the louisiana territory ( $ million in dollars, less than 42 सेंट प्रति acre ).
The Louisiana territory encompassed all or part of 15 उपस्थित u.S. states and दो Canadian provinces.
The land purchased contained all of present-day अरकंसास, मिसौरी, आयोवा, Oklahoma, Kansas, और नेब्रास्का ; parts of मिनेसोटा that यहूद वेस्ट of the Mississippi River ; most of उत्तर Dakota ; most of दक्षिण Dakota ; northeastern New मैक्सिको ; उत्तरी टेक्सास ; the portions of मोंटाना, व्योमिंग, and Colorado ईस्ट of the Continental Divide ; louisiana वेस्ट of the मिसिसिपी River, including the city of New ऑरलियन्स ; और small portions of land that would आखिरकार become भाग of the कनाडाई provinces of Alberta और Saskatchewan.
France नियंत्रित इस विशाल क्षेत्रफल from 1699 until 1762, the year it gave the territory to इसके ally स्पेन.
Under Napoleon बोनापार्ट, France took back the territory in 1800 in the आशा of भवन an साम्राज्य in North America.
a slave revolt in हैती and an impending war with Britain, however, led फ़्रांस to abandon these योजनाएँ and sell the संपूर्ण territory to the United States, जो had originally intended only to seek the खरीदें of New ऑरलियन्स and इसके adjacent lands.
the purchase of the territory of Louisiana took place दौरान the presidency of Thomas जेफरसन.
at the time, the purchase faced domestic opposition because it थी thought to be unconstitutional.
Although he agreed that the U.S. संविधान किया not contain provisions for acquiring territory, जेफरसन decided to go ahead with the purchase anyway in अनुक्रम to remove France 's उपस्थिति in the region और to protect both U.S. trade access to the बंदरगाहों of New ऑरलियन्स और फ़्री ड्योढ़ी on the मिसिसिपी नदी.
Ceremony at प्लेस d'Armes, नई ऑरलियन्स marking ट्रांसफ़र of louisiana to the United States, 10 कूच 1804, as चित्रित by Thure de thulstrup.
`` Cool Jerk '' is a लोकप्रिय song written by Donald storball और originally performed by The capitols.
released in 1966, it पहुँचे No. 2 on the American R & b chart and No. 7 on the पॉप chart.
the बैकिंग track लिये this song was actually recorded ( secretly ) by the motown house band The Funk Brothers.
Per एक of the दुर्गंध Brothers, the सोंग was originally to be called `` Pimp Jerk. ''
This थी taken इससे watching पड़ोस pimps, जो होता dance in the क्लब, लकिन were too `` cool '' to do the jerk like नियमित folks.
Their version was subsequently named `` the Pimp Jerk. ''
the निर्माता थी afraid that a song with the word pimp in the शीर्षक would be banned or नहीं receive much positive attention, and था the शीर्षक changed to इसके current form.
The Go-Go 's, Todd rundgren, Big Trouble, इंसान यौन Response, The La de Da 's, The Creation, और the coasters have covered the सोंग.
Todd Rundgren did his संस्करण in an विषम time हस्ताक्षर ( 7/4 ), giving an obviously jerky feel to the song.
The Go-Go 's covered the सोंग for their 1982 album Vacation and later re-recorded it लिये उनके 1990 album Greatest.
In the feature फिल्मी Home Alone 2 : खोया in New यॉर्क, ताऊ फ़्रैंक ( gerry Bamman ) sings `` कूल Jerk '' in the shower.
A version of the song with अलग lyrics ( `` Do the कूल चाबुक '' ) is used in कूल चाबुक commercials.
A recording of `` कूल झटका '' by रिकार्डो Ray is featured in the feature फिल्मी donnie Brasco ( 1997 ).
The सोंग सुविधाएँ in the फिल्मी Standing in the साए of Motown, performed by the Funk Brothers with सीसे vocals by Bootsy Collins.
The song is heard briefly in the animated feature, मेडागास्कर 3 : यूरोपीय 's Most Wanted.
Despite इस reason, it is सूचीबद्ध in some विसंगतियाँ of the फिल्मी 's साउंडट्रैक.
A लीग is a unit of length ( or, rarely, area ).
It was long आम in Europe और लैटिन America, but it is no longer an official ईकाई in कोई nation.
The लीग originally referred to the अलहदा a person could walk in an hour.
Since the मध्य Ages, अनेक values have महरूम specified in अनेक countries.
in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of nautical दूरियाँ, the 3 mile ( 4.8 km ) distance corresponds to कैसा far an निरीक्षक of average height ( 5'9 '' or 1.78 m ) can see जब खड़ा at sea level.
यूँ, a जलयान traveling one `` लीग '' रै reached what was previously the farthest visible distance on the horizon.
The lack of a historical और वैश्विक standard for the सटीक measure of a `` league '' can be accounted लिये by the variable elevation of the observer ( i.e., sightings from a ship 's deck vs. masthead ).
the आयरिश state came into being in 1922 as the Irish Free राज्य, a dominion of the British Commonwealth, having seceded इससे the संयुक्त Kingdom under the Anglo-Irish Treaty.
it comprises 26 of Ireland 's 32 काउंटी.
चूंकि 1949 it रै existed as the Republic of Ireland.
From its न्यास, the Irish Free राज्य was embroiled in a civil युद्ध between nationalists supporting the सन्धि और opponents जो supported a republic.
the pro-Treaty side, organised as cumann na nGaedheal emerged victorious इससे the conflict और won subsequent चुनावों.
They formed the government of the राज्य until 1932, when they peacefully handed over power to the anti-Treaty गुट in fianna fáil, who defeated them in an चुनाव.
The Irish राज्य, despite इसके हिंसक beginnings, रै remained a liberal democracy throughout its अस्तित्व.
a नई संविधान in 1937 removed many of the links with Britain स्थापित अंतर्गत the सन्धि और Ireland 's neutrality in the Second संसार युद्ध demonstrated its स्वतंत्रता in foreign नीति matters इससे Britain.
in 1948 Ireland formally left the British Commonwealth and adopted the title of `` Republic ''.
in the economic sphere, the Irish state has had a mixed performance.
on independence, it थी एक of the wealthier देशों in Europe प्रति head of जनसांख्यिकी.
however it भी inherited from British नियम the problems of unemployment, emigration, uneven भौगोलिक विकास and कमी of a native औद्योगिक base.
For much of its history, the राज्य struggled to rectify ये problems.
Particular चोटियों of emigration यहूद अंकित दौरान the late 1930s, 1950s और 1980s, when the आयरिश अर्थव्यवस्था अंकित little विकास.
in the 1930s, fianna Fáil governments attempted to create Irish domestic उद्योग using subsidies and protective tarifs.
In the late 1950s, these policies यहूद dropped in favour of फ़्री व्यापार साथ चयनित देशों and encouraging of foreign investment with कम taxes.
This थी विस्तारित when आयरलैंड डाला the यूरोपीय आर्थिक Community in 1972.
In the 1990s और 2000s, Ireland अनुभवी an economic boom known as the सेल्टिक Tiger, in which the देश 's GDP surpassed अनेक of its European पड़ोसी.
Immigration also surpassed emigration, bringing the राज्य 's population up to over 4 लाख.
However, चूंकि 2008, Ireland has अनुभवी a severe संकट in the banking sector and with sovereign debt.
the resultant economic slump has deepened the प्रभाव of the world मंदी on Ireland.
From 1937 to 1998, the आयरिश constitution included a claim on Northern आयरलैंड as a भाग of the national territory.
However, the state भी opposed and used its security forces against those armed groups - principally the Provisional आयरिश Republican फौज, who tried to एकजुट Ireland by force.
इस occurred in the 1950s, throughout the 1970s और 1980s and has जारी on a reduced scale.
Irish governments meanwhile tried to दलाली an agreement to the विरोध ज्ञात as the परेशानियों within Northern आयरलैंड from 1968 to the late 1990s.
The British government officially recognised the right of the Irish सरकारी to be a पार्टी to the उत्तरी negotiations in the Anglo-Irish अनुबंध of 1985.
in 1998, as भाग of the Good Friday Agreement, the Irish constitution थी altered by referendum to remove the territorial claim to Northern Ireland and instead extend the right of Irish नागरिकता to all the लोगों of the द्वीप चाहिए वे काश to have it.
John Quincy Adams ( July 11, 1767February 23, 1848 ) थी the sixth अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States ( 1825–1829 ).
He served as American diplomat, Senator, and Congressional प्रतिनिधि.
he was a सदस्य of the Federalist, Democratic-Republican, National Republican, और बाद anti-masonic and Whig parties.
एडम्स थी the son of पूर्व President जॉन Adams and अबीगैल एडम्स.
As a राजनयिक, Adams निभाई an important role in negotiating many international treaties, most notably the सन्धि of Ghent, जिससे ended the युद्ध of 1812.
as Secretary of राज्य, he negotiated साथ the United Kingdom over America 's उत्तरी border with कनाडा, negotiated साथ स्पेन the annexation of Florida, और authored the Monroe Doctrine.
इतिहासकारों agree he was एक of the महानतम diplomats and secretaries of राज्य in American history.
as president, he sought to modernize the American economy and promoted education.
Adams enacted a part of उसके agenda and paid बंद much of the national debt.
he थी stymied by a Congress नियंत्रित by his enemies, और his कमी of patronage networks helped राजनेता eager to undercut उसे.
he lost his 1828 bid for re-election to Andrew Jackson.
In doing so, he became the first president since उसके father to serve a single पद.
Adams is best ज्ञात as a diplomat who shaped America 's foreign नीति in line साथ his ardently nationalist commitment to अमेरिका 's republican values.
More recently होवे ( 2007 ) portrayed एडम्स as the exemplar and moral leader in an era of modernization.
During एडम्स ' आजीवन, technological innovations and new अर्थात् of communication spread संदेश of religious revival, social reform, and पार्टी politics.
Goods, money, and people traveled more rapidly and efficiently than कभी पहले.
Adams was elected a u.S. Representative इससे Massachusetts after leaving office, serving लिये the पिछला 17 सालो of उसके जीवन with far greater acclamation than he had achieved as अध्यक्ष.
He is, so far, the तभी president बाद elected to the संयुक्त States हाउस of प्रतिनिधि ( हालांकि John टायलर थी elected to the हाउस of Representatives of the Confederate राज्य just before his death in 1862 ).
एनिमेटेड by his growing revulsion against गुलामी, Adams became a leading प्रतिद्वन्दी of the Slave Power.
he predicted कि if a civil युद्ध were to break out, the अध्यक्ष could abolish slavery by using उसके युद्ध powers.
एडम्स also predicted the Union 's dissolution over the slavery issue, लकिन said that if the दक्षिण became independent there would be a series of bloody स्लेव revolts.
Windows Internet Explorer 9 ( IE9 ) is a version of the Internet Explorer web ब्राउजर from Microsoft.
It was released to the पब्लिक on March 14, 2011.
microsoft has released अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर 9 as a major out-of-band version कि is not tied to the रिलीज schedule of कोई particular version of खिड़कियाँ, नापसंद previous संस्करण.
it is the first version चूंकि अंतरजाल Explorer 2 to नहीं be bundled साथ a खिड़कियाँ operating system, हालांकि some oems have संस्थापित it with Windows 7 on their PCs, as well as new Windows 7 लैपटॉप.
The प्रणाली आवश्यकताएँ लिये अंतरजाल Explorer 9 are खिड़कियाँ 7, Windows Server 2008 r2, Windows विस्टा Service पैक 2 or Windows Server 2008 SP2 साथ the मंच अद्यतन.
खिड़कियाँ XP and पहले are not समर्थित.
Internet Explorer 9 is the last version of अंतरजाल Explorer to be supported on Windows Vista.
Both IA-32 and x64 builds हैं available.
Internet Explorer 9 supports अनेक CSS 3 properties, embedded ICC v2 or v4 color profiles support via Windows रंग प्रणाली, and has improved JavaScript performance.
It is the पिछला of the five major web browsers to implement support for स्केलेबल Vector Graphics ( SVG ).
it also features hardware-accelerated ग्राफिक्स रेंडरिंग using direct2d, hardware-accelerated text rendering using DirectWrite, hardware-accelerated वीडियो rendering using Media Foundation, imaging support provided by खिड़कियाँ इमेजिंग घटक, and high fidelity मुद्रण powered by the xml Paper specification ( xps ) print pipeline.
अंतरजाल Explorer 9 also supports the HTML5 वीडियो and ऑडियो टैग और the Web Open फ़ॉन्ट स्वरूप.
Alka-Seltzer is an effervescent antacid और pain reliever first marketed by the Dr. मील Medicine Company.
It was developed by मौरिस treener, head केमिस्ट at मील, in Elkhart, Indiana.
Alka-Seltzer is marketed for relief of minor aches, pains, inflammation, fever, headache, heartburn, sour stomach, indigestion, and hangovers, जबकि neutralizing excess stomach acid.
it थी शुभारम्भ in 1931.
A spin-off of Alka-Seltzer बना to relieve colds and flu, Alka-Seltzer Plus, was बाद introduced.
A short-lived antacid non-aspirin रूपांतर, Alka-Mints, was introduced in 1994 और discontinued in 1997.
alka-seltzer is फिलहाल स्वामित्व by Bayer Schering Pharma ag, जर्मनी.
The नाम `` alka-seltzer '' रै महरूम extended to incorporate an entire लकीर of medications sold over the counter and taken by means of rapidly dissolving tablets कि रूप a carbonated solution in जल.
चेरी Alka Seltzer Plus Tablet dissolving in water
Image showing the छह most आम speleothems with लेबल्स.
Enlarge to view labels.
a stalactite (, ; इससे the यूनानी stalasso, ( σταλάσσω ), `` to drip '', और meaning `` कि जिससे drips '' ) is a type of speleothem ( secondary खनिज ) that hangs इससे the छत of limestone caves.
It is a type of dripstone.
the corresponding formation on the floor of the cave is known as a stalagmite.
उपाधि abbreviations are प्रयुक्त as an alternative way to बताएँ an अकादमिक उपाधि instead of spelling आउट the शीर्षक in full, ऐसे as in reference books like Who 's जो और on कारोबार cards.
Many डिग्री have अधिक than one abbreviation.
In the uk, it is not generally the कस्टम to punctuate abbreviations लिये degrees with पूरा stops ( e.g. `` बीएससी '' बल्कि than `` B.Sc. ``.
Race is a classification system used to categorize इंसानो into large and distinct populations or groups by anatomical, cultural, ethnic, जेनेटिक, geographical, ऐतिहासिक, भाषाई, धार्मिक, or सोशल संबद्ध.
पहला used to denote नेशनल affiliations, the term began to be प्रयुक्त to relate to शारीरिक traits in the 17th century.
In the early 20th century the पद was प्रायः used, in a taxonomic sense, to denote genetically differentiated इंसान populations defined by phenotype.
जबकि biologists sometimes use the अवधारणा of race to मेक distinctions among फजी सेट of traits, others in the scientific जातियाँ सुझाएँ that the विचार of race often is used in a naive or simplistic रास्ता, i.e. that among humans, race रै no taxonomic significance : सब living humans belong to the वही प्रजाति, Homo sapiens और subspecies, Homo sapiens sapiens.
सोशल conceptions and groupings of races vary over time, involving folk taxonomies
that define of individuals based on perceived traits.
Scientists consider biological essentialism obsolete, और generally discourage जातिगत explanations for सामूहिक differentiation in both physical और behavioral traits.
चूंकि the दूसरी half of the 20th सदी the associations of रेस with the ideologies and theories that grew out of the work of 19th-century anthropologists and physiologists has led to the use of the word रेस itself बनने समस्यापूर्ण.
Although स्टिल प्रयुक्त in सामान्य contexts, it is अभी प्रायः replaced by अन्य शब्द which are less अस्पष्ट और emotionally चार्ज, such as populations, people ( s ), ethnic groups or communities depending on context.
लुसी Stone ( August 13, 1818 – October 19, 1893 ) थी a prominent American abolitionist and suffragist, and a vocal advocate and आयोजक promoting rights for महिलाओं.
In 1847, स्टोन became the first woman from मैसाचुसेट्स to earn a कॉलेज degree.
She spoke out for women 's अधिकारों और विरूद्ध slavery at a time जब women were discouraged and prevented from public बोलना.
Stone थी the पहला recorded अमरीकी woman to retain उसके own last name बाद marriage.
स्टोन 's organizational activities for the कारण of women 's rights yielded tangible gains in the difficult राजनैतिक environment of the 19th century.
Stone helped initiate the first नेशनल महिलाओं 's Rights Convention and वो supported and sustained it annually along with a number of अन्य local, राज्य and regional activist प्रथाओं.
स्टोन spoke in सामने of a number of विधान bodies to promote laws giving अधिक rights to महिलाओं.
She assisted in establishing the स्त्री 's National वफ़ादार लीग to help pass the तेरहवीं amendment और thereby abolish slavery, after which वो helped form the largest समूह of like-minded महिलाओं 's rights reformers, the नीतियां मॉडरेट अमरीकी स्त्री Suffrage संघ, जिससे worked लिये दशकों at the state level in favor of महिलाओं 's right to vote.
Stone लिखा extensively about a wide range of महिलाओं 's rights, publishing and distributing भाषणों by herself और अन्य, and convention कार्यवाही.
in the long-running और influential Woman 's Journal, a weekly periodical that she established and promoted, स्टोन aired दोनो उसके own and differing views परिचय महिलाओं 's अधिकारों.
पुकारा `` the orator '' and `` the morning star of the स्त्री 's rights गति '', Stone delivered a वाक which sparked Susan B. Anthony to take up the cause of महिलाओं 's suffrage.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton लिखा that `` लुसी Stone थी the पहला person by जिसको the दिल of the American पब्लिक was deeply stirred on the स्त्री सवाल. ''
साथ, Anthony, Stanton, और Stone have महरूम पुकारा the 19th century `` triumvirate `` of women 's suffrage and feminism.
in finance, a bond is an यंत्र of indebtedness of the बंध issuer to the धारकों.
it is a कर्ज़ सुरक्षा, under which the issuer owes the holders a कर्ज़ और, depending on the शर्तें of the bond, is obliged to अदा them interest ( the coupon ) or to repay the प्रिंसिपल at a बाद तिथि, termed the परिपक्वता.
Interest is usually payable at fixed intervals ( semiannual, सालाना, sometimes मासिक ).
बहुत प्रायः the बंध is negotiable, i.e. the ownership of the instrument can be transferred in the secondary मार्केट.
यूँ a bond is a form of ऋण or iou : the holder of the बंध is the lender ( creditor ), the जारीकर्ता of the bond is the borrower ( debtor ), and the coupon is the interest.
Bonds provide the borrower साथ external funds to finance long-term निवेश, or, in the मामला of सरकारी bonds, to finance current expenditure.
Certificates of deposit ( cds ) or छोटी पद वाणिज्यिक paper are considered to be money market instruments और नहीं bonds : the main अंतर is in the लंबाई of the पद of the instrument.
bonds और स्टॉक्स are दोनो securities, but the major अंतर between the two is that ( पूंजी ) stockholders have an इक्विटी stake in the company ( i.e. वे are owners ), whereas bondholders have a creditor हिस्सेदारी in the कम्पनी ( i.e. they हैं lenders ).
Another difference is that bonds usually have a defined पद, or maturity, बाद जिससे the बंध is redeemed, whereas stocks may be outstanding indefinitely.
an एक्सेप्शन is an irredeemable bond, ऐसे as consols, which is a perpetuity, i.e. a bond with no maturity.
a स्केल model of the मीनार of London.
इस model can be found inside the मीनार.
स्केल मॉडल of water संचालित turbine
L to R with 12 inch शासक at नीचे : 1:64 Matchbox शेवरलेट Tahoe, 1:43 Ford F-100, 1:25 Revell monogram 1999 घाट mustang Cobra, 1:18 Bburago 1987 Ferrari f40
मॉडल जहाजों और castle
a scale मॉडल is a शारीरिक model, a प्रतिनिधित्व or copy of an ऑब्जेक्ट कि is larger or smaller than the वास्तविक आकार of the ऑब्जेक्ट, which seeks to maintain the relative proportions ( the scale फ़ैक्टर ) of the physical size of the original object.
बहुत often the स्केल model is used as a guide to making the object in पूरा size.
Scale मॉडल are निर्मित or collected for many reasons.
the Zune HD थी a पोर्टेबल media player in the zune उत्पाद परिवार released on सितंबर 15, 2009 by microsoft.
it थी a सीधा competitor with the Apple iPod और iPhone श्रेणी of मोबाईल devices.
it was initially released in 16 and 32 gb capacities.
A 64 gb version थी released on April 9, 2010.
It utilized a touchscreen इंटरफ़ेस for नेविगेशन और included Wi-Fi लिये synchronization, access to the Zune मार्केटप्लेस and वेब browsing.
The Zune hd utilized the nvidia Tegra apx 2600 chip, allowing it to खेल 720p वीडियो through the वैकल्पिक HDMI zune dock on a high-definition television.
वरना, content होता be scaled down to 480x272 pixels on the player 's oled touchscreen.
बूढ़ा Sparky, the इलेक्ट्रिक chair used at Sing Sing थाना
निष्पादन by electrocution, usually performed using an electric chair, is an निष्पादन method originating in the संयुक्त States in which the condemned person is strapped to a specially built लकड़ी chair and electrocuted through electrodes placed on the देह.
This निष्पादन method was created by कर्मचारी of Thomas Edison during the War of currents, and has been used only in the United राज्य and, लिये a period of several दशकों, in the Philippines ( its first उपयोग there in 1924 अंतर्गत American occupation, last in 1976 ).
Historically, once the condemned व्यक्ति was संलग्न to the कुर्सी, विभिन्न cycles ( differing in voltage and अवधि ) of alternating current would be passed through the व्यक्तिगत 's body, in order to cause fatal क्षति to the आतंरिक organs ( सहित the brain ).
The पहला jolt of इलेक्ट्रिक current was designed to कारण तात्कालिक unconsciousness और brain death ; the second one was designed to cause fatal damage to the vital अंगों.
मौत थी frequently caused by विद्युत overstimulation of the heart.
Although in the United States the electric कुर्सी has become a symbol of the मौत penalty, its उपयोग is in मनाही due to the rise of lethal injection, which is widely believed to be a more दयालु विधि of execution.
Although कुछ राज्य still maintain electrocution as a विधि of execution, आज it is only कायम as a secondary method that may be chosen over lethal injection at the request of the prisoner.
as of 2010, electrocution is an optional form of execution in अलबामा, फ्लोरिडा, South Carolina और Virginia.
They allow the prisoner to choose lethal इंजेक्शन as an वैकल्पिक method.
in the राज्य of Kentucky and टेनेसी, the electric chair रै महरूम retired except for those whose पूंजी अपराधों यहूद committed prior to legislated तिथियाँ in 1998 ( केंटकी : March 31, 1998 ; Tennessee : दिसम्बर 31, 1998 ) and who chose electrocution.
in दोनो राज्य, inmates who do not चुनें electrocution or inmates who वचनबद्ध उनके अपराधों after the designated तिथि हैं killed by lethal इंजेक्शन.
The इलेक्ट्रिक chair is an alternate form of execution approved for potential use in अरकंसास and ओक्लाहोमा if other forms of execution are found असंवैधानिक in the state at the समय of execution.
It is the sole विधि of निष्पादन in Vermont, where treason is the तभी capital crime.
On February 8, 2008, the नेब्रास्का Supreme अदालत determined that निष्पादन by इलेक्ट्रिक chair थी a `` cruel और unusual punishment '' under the राज्य 's constitution.
इस brought executions of this प्रकार to an end in नेब्रास्का, the only remaining राज्य to retain electrocution as इसके sole method of execution for हत्या.
the मेरीलैंड House of Delegates is the निम्नतर हाउस of the सामान्य सभा, the राज्य legislature of the American राज्य of मेरीलैंड, and is रचित of 141 delegates निर्वाचित इससे 47 districts.
The House of Delegates Chamber is located in the Maryland State House ( राज्य capitol ) on State Circle in annapolis, which is the state पूंजी.
The State House also houses the Maryland State Senate कक्ष और the कार्यालयों of the राज्यपाल and Lieutenant Governor of the State of Maryland.
Each Delegate has offices in Annapolis, in the nearby Casper R. Taylor, jr. हाउस Office भवन.
The Liberation of Paris ( also ज्ञात as the बैटल लिये पेरिस ) took प्लेस दौरान World युद्ध II from 19 August 1944 जबतक the surrender of the occupying जर्मनी garrison on 25 August.
The Liberation of पेरिस started with an uprising by the फ्रेंच प्रतिरोध विरूद्ध the German garrison.
on 24 August, the फ्रेंच Forces of the Interior ( Forces françaises de l'intérieur, FFI ) प्राप्त reinforcements from the फ़्री फ्रेंच फौज of मुक्ति और इससे the U.S. तीसरा फौज under General patton.
the पूंजी region of France था महरूम governed by Nazi जर्मनी since the हस्ताक्षर of the Second Compiègne armistice in जून 1940, when the जर्मनी फौज occupied northern and westernmost फ़्रांस, and जब the puppet regime of Vichy France was established in the town of Vichy in सेंट्रल फ़्रांस.
इस battle चिह्नित the liberation of Paris and the निर्वासन of the vichy सरकारी to sigmaringen in Germany.
however, there was still much भारी fighting to be done पहले France was liberated, including the अभियान in southern France during august-september ( in provence and extending into the southwestern प्रदेश of the vosges kyu ), साथ the german-held seaports of पश्चिमी फ़्रांस ( ऐसे as at brest and dunkirk ), in alsace and Lorraine in eastern France, और in northeastern फ़्रांस, such as along the Rhine और Moder Rivers.
The German फौज and SS fought doggedly in ये क्षेत्रों for the remainder of 1944 और into 1945.
`` Feelin ' Alright ? '' also known as `` अहसास Alright '' is a सोंग लिखा by Dave मेसन of the English rock बैंड Traffic from their eponymous 1968 album, Traffic.
The सोंग थी भी a hit सिंगल for several performers : जो Cocker ( 1969, # 69, recharted in 1972, US # 33 ), mongo santamaría ( 1969, # 95 ) and Grand दुर्गंध रेलरोड ( 1971, US # 54 ).
it has also been अंकित by Three श्वान रात्रि ( 1969 ), The 5th आयाम ( 1970 ), लू राल्स, Freddie किंग, Paul Weller, Lulu, Chairmen of the फलक ( 1970 ), Rare Earth, The Electric Concept Orchestra, माँ 's Finest ( 1973 ), the ओहियो Players ( 1971 ), Diana रॉस साथ the Jackson 5 ( 1971 ), Maceo Parker, Gladys Knight & the pips, फैली दहशत and the ब्लैक Crowes.
A Steel ढोल version by Trinidad Oil Company was reissued on the dancefloor jazz compilation Blue रस 2.
it थी also प्रदर्शित in the 2000 film duets, sung by huey Lewis.
Both the original और the Joe Cocker कवर were featured in the फिल्म उड़ान, starring Denzel Washington.
Devon Werkheiser ( born March 8,1991 ) is an अमरीकी actor, voice actor, singer, songwriter और musician, best known लिये उसके starring role as ned Bigby on the निकलोडियन sitcom Ned 's Declassified स्कूल अस्तित्व मार्गदर्शिका and for his role in the 2007 TV फिल्म Shredderman नियम, as the lead अक्षर नोलन byrd.
werkheiser भी निभाई पीटर Parkes in the चौथी और final ऋतु of the एबीसी परिवार show Greek.
Sample view of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य record based on बिंब
Sample दृश्य of an electronic स्वास्थ्य record
an electronic health record ( EHR ) is an evolving अवधारणा defined as a व्यवस्थित संग्रहण of electronic स्वास्थ्य सूचना परिचय individual patients or populations.
It is a रिकार्ड in digital स्वरूप कि is theoretically capable of being shared across different स्वास्थ्य care जमावट.
In some cases इस sharing can occur by way of network-connected enterprise-wide सूचना systems and other सूचना संजाल or exchanges.
EHRs may include a दायरा of data, including demographics, medical इतिहास, दवा and allergies, immunization status, प्रयोगशाला test परिणाम, radiology बिंब, vital signs, personal आंकड़े like age और weight, and billing information.
ऋण origination is the प्रक्रम by which a borrower applies लिये a new loan, और a lender प्रक्रियाओं कि अनुप्रयोग.
Origination generally शामिल all the कदम from taking a ऋण अनुप्रयोग up to disbursal of funds ( or declining the application ).
Loan सर्विसिंग covers everything after disbursing the funds until the ऋण is fully paid off.
Loan origination is a specialized version of नई account खोलने लिये financial सेवाएं organizations.
निश्चित people और organizations specialize in ऋण origination.
बंधक brokers और अन्य mortgage originator कंपनियाँ serve as a prominent उदाहरण.
There are many अलग types of लोन.
लिये अधिक information on loan प्रकार, देखिए the loan and consumer lending आलेख.
कदम involved in originating a loan vary by loan type, विभिन्न kinds of ऋण risk, regulator, lender policy, and other factors.
Top बाएँ : The Tennessee घाटी Authority, भाग of the New Deal, being signed into विधि in 1933.
Top सही : फ्रैंकलिन delano रूज़वेल्ट, जो थी जिम्मेदार लिये initiatives और programs collectively ज्ञात as the नई सौदे.
नीचे : a पब्लिक भित्ति इससे one of the artists employed by the New सौदे.
The New Deal was a श्रेणी of आर्थिक programs enacted in the संयुक्त राज्य between 1933 and 1936.
They involved presidential executive आदेश or laws passed by कॉंग्रेस during the first पद of अध्यक्ष Franklin D. Roosevelt.
The कार्यक्रम were in response to the ग्रेट Depression, and focused on कया historians call the `` 3 rs '' : Relief, Recovery, और Reform.
That is राहत लिये the बेरोजगार and poor ; रिकवरी of the economy to सामान्य स्तर ; and Reform of the वित्तीय प्रणाली to prevent a repeat अवसाद.
The नई Deal उत्पादित a political realignment, making the Democratic Party the बहुमत ( as well as the party that आयोजित the श्वेत हाउस for सात आउट of नौ Presidential terms from 1933 to 1969 ), with its base in liberal ideas, the white South, traditional Democrats, बिग city मशीने, और the newly सशक्त labor संघ और ethnic अल्पसंख्यकों.
The republicans यहूद विभाजित, साथ conservatives opposing the entire New Deal as an enemy of कारोबार और growth, and उदारवादियों accepting some of it and promising to make it अधिक कुशल.
the realignment crystallized into the नई सौदे गठबन्धन that वर्चस्व सबसे presidential elections into the 1960s, while the opposition रूढ़िवादी Coalition largely controlled Congress from 1937 to 1963.
By 1936 the term `` liberal '' typically थी used for supporters of the नई सौदे, and `` conservative `` लिये इसके प्रतिद्वंद्वियों.
इससे 1934 to 1938, रूज़वेल्ट थी assisted in his endeavours by a “pro-spender” majority in Congress ( drawn from two-party, competitive, non-machine, प्रगतिशील, और Left party जिले ).
as noted by Alexander Hicks, “roosevelt, समर्थित by rare, non-southern Democrat majorities — 270 non-Southern Democrat representatives and 71 non-Southern Democrat senators — spelled दूसरी New Deal reform.”
Many इतिहासकारों distinguish between a `` पहला नई Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) and a `` Second नई Deal '' ( 1935–38 ), with the दूसरी one more liberal और more controversial.
The `` First New Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) dealt with विविध समूह, from banking and railroads to उद्योग and खेती, सब of which मांगे help for आर्थिक survival.
The Federal आपात राहत प्रशासन, for उदाहरण, provided $ 500 million for राहत परिचालन by states and शहरों, while the short-lived CWA ( सिविल works Administration ) gave बस्तियों money to operate make-work projects in 1933-34.
The `` दूसरी नई Deal `` in 1935–38 शामिल the वेगनर Act to प्रचार मजदूर unions, the works Progress Administration ( WPA ) relief कार्यक्रम ( which बना the federal सरकारी by far the largest single employer in the nation ), the Social Security Act, and नई कार्यक्रम to सहायता tenant farmers और migrant मजदूर.
The final प्रमुख items of New सौदे विधान were the creation of the संयुक्त States Housing Authority and Farm Security Administration, both in 1937, और the Fair Labor मानकों Act of 1938, जिससे set अधिकतम घंटों and न्यूनतम wages for most categories of workers.
The economic downturn of 1937–38, and the bitter विभाजित between the AFL and CIO labor unions led to प्रमुख Republican gains in कॉंग्रेस in 1938.
Conservative Republicans and Democrats in Congress joined in the अनौपचारिक Conservative गठबन्धन.
By 1942–43 they shut down relief कार्यक्रम such as the WPA and ccc and blocked प्रमुख liberal प्रस्ताव.
रूज़वेल्ट himself turned his ध्यान to the युद्ध effort, and won reelection in 1940 and 1944.
The Supreme Court घोषित the National Recovery Administration ( nra ) और the पहला version of the agricultural समायोजन Act ( AAA ) unconstitutional, however the AAA was rewritten और तब upheld.
as the first Republican अध्यक्ष निर्वाचित बाद FDR, ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर ( 1953–61 ) left the नई Deal largely बरकरार, भी expanding it in कुछ क्षेत्रों.
In the 1960s, Lyndon B. Johnson 's ग्रेट Society प्रयुक्त the New सौदे as inspiration for a नाटकीय expansion of उदार programs, which रिपब्लिकन Richard M. Nixon generally retained.
बाद 1974, however, the कॉल for deregulation of the economy gained bipartisan support.
The नई सौदे विनियमन of बैंकिंग ( Glass–Steagall अधिनियम ) थी निलंबित in the 1990s.
Many नई Deal कार्यक्रम remain active, with कुछ still operating अंतर्गत the original names, including the Federal जमा Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ), the Federal Crop बीमे Corporation ( fcic ), the संघीय Housing Administration ( fha ), and the Tennessee Valley प्राधिकार ( त्व ).
The largest कार्यक्रम still in existence आज are the Social Security System और the Securities और Exchange Commission ( SEC ).
A स्त्री ( ), pl : महिलाओं ( ) is a female इंसान.
the पद स्त्री is प्रायः सुरक्षित for an adult, साथ the term लड़की being the usual term for a female चाइल्ड or adolescent.
however, the पद woman is भी sometimes used to identify a female human, regardless of आयु, as in phrases such as `` Women 's अधिकारों ``.
महिलाओं हैं typically सक्षम of giving birth, though older महिलाओं जो have गए through रजोनिवृत्ति और कुछ intersex women can not.
`` i do n't Want to Miss a Thing '' is a सोंग performed by American rock बैंड एरोस्मिथ for the 1998 film Armageddon.
Written by Diane Warren, the song debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 ( the first # 1 for the band after 28 years together ).
The song ठहरे at क्रमांक एक लिये four weeks from September 5 to सितंबर 26, 1998.
the सोंग also stayed at number 1 for several सप्ताह in several other countries.
in the uk, the song peaked at number four, बनने Aerosmith 's उच्चतम charting सोंग in the uk, जहाँ it थी the 17th best-selling सिंगल of 1998, और has बेची over a million copies.
Although not प्रयुक्त by the majority of the संसार 's countries, daylight saving समय is आम in the Western संसार.
Daylight छायांकन time ( DST ) —also summer time in अंग्रेजों English — is the practice of advancing clocks during the हल्का months so that evenings have more daylight and mornings have कम.
typically clocks are समायोजित forward एक hour near the start of spring and हैं समायोजित पिछड़ा in पतझड़.
The modern idea of daylight saving was first प्रस्तावित in 1895 by George Vernon हडसन and it was first implemented during the First World युद्ध.
Many देशों have प्रयुक्त it at विभिन्न टाइम्स since then.
Much of the United राज्य प्रयुक्त DST in the 1950s और 1960s, and dst use विस्तारित following the 1970s energy crisis and रै been widely used in North अमेरिका and Europe since तब.
The अभ्यास रै महरूम both praised and criticized.
adding daylight to evenings benefits retailing, खेल, और अन्य activities that exploit sunlight बाद working hours, but can cause समस्याएं for evening entertainment and other occupations tied to the sun.
हालांकि an early goal of dst थी to reduce evening usage of incandescent lighting ( formerly a primary use of विद्युत ), आधुनिक हीटिंग और cooling usage patterns differ greatly, और शोध परिचय how dst फिलहाल affects energy उपयोग is सीमित or contradictory.
DST clock shifts उपस्थित अन्य चुनौतियां.
They complicate timekeeping, and can disrupt meetings, सफर, बिलिंग, record keeping, चिकित्सा डिवाइस, heavy उपकरण, और नींद patterns.
Software can often adjust कंप्यूटर घड़ियाँ automatically, but this can be सीमित and error-prone, particularly जब dst तिथियाँ हैं changed.
Floorplan of the Château de montargis
montargis is a कम्यून in the loiret विभाग in north-central France on the Loing नदी.
The town is located about south of Paris and ईस्ट of orléans in the gâtinais.
Montargis is the second largest city in the Loiret, after orléans.
It is near a विशाल forest, और contains light industry और farming, सहित केसरिया.
due to इसके numerous canals and पुलों, Montargis sometimes bills itself as the `` वेनिस of the gâtinais. ''
हालांकि काफी modern, it retains a medieval charm in इसके downtown area.
in कंप्यूटर storage, a लॉजिकल unit number, or LUN, is a number used to identify a logical ईकाई, which is a यंत्र addressed by the SCSI protocol or प्रोटोकॉल which encapsulate scsi, such as Fibre चैनल or iSCSI.
A LUN may be used साथ कोई device which supports read/write परिचालन, such as a tape ड्राइव, लकिन is most often used to refer to a logical disk as created on a SAN.
हालांकि not technically सही, the पद `` LUN '' is प्रायः also प्रयुक्त to refer to the logical disk itself.
The Gospel according to Mark (,, to euangelion kata Markon ), commonly shortened to the Gospel of चिह्नित or simply चिह्नित, is the second book of the नई Testament.
This canonical खाता of the जीवन of Jesus of Nazareth is one of the three synoptic gospels.
it was thought to be an निचोड़, which accounts लिये its place as the second इन्जील in the Bible.
However, सबसे contemporary scholars अभी regard it as the earliest of the canonical gospels ( c 70 ).
That चिह्नित was प्रयुक्त as a सोर्स लिये the other synoptic gospels इन्जील of मैथ्यू and इन्जील of Luke is widely आयोजित by अनेक, हालांकि नहीं सब, नई Testament scholars.
The Gospel of चिह्नित narrates the Ministry of Jesus from his baptism by John the बैपटिस्ट to उसके मौत and resurrection.
It focuses particularly on the last week of his जीवन ( अध्याय 11–16 ) in जेरूसलम.
Its swift narrative portrays यीशु as a वीर man of कार्रवाई, an exorcist, healer and miracle कार्यकर्ता.
an important theme of चिह्नित is the मुक्तिदाता Secret.
Jesus silences the demoniacs he heals, कोशिशें unsuccessfully to रखना his मुक्तिदाता identity रहस्य, और conceals his message साथ parables.
meanwhile, the disciples fail to समझे both the implication of the miracles of यीशु and the meaning of the things he predicts परिचय उसके arrest, मौत और क़यामत.
सबसे विद्वानों मानना that the original text of the gospel ends at Mark 16:8 with the डिस्कवरी of Jesus ' empty मकबरा and कि the following account of his क़यामत appearances is a later जोड.
According to tradition and कुछ early church लेखक, the author is चिह्नित the इंजीलवादी, the companion of the apostle पीटर.
The इन्जील, however, appears to rely on several underlying स्त्रोत, varying in form and in theology, which tells विरूद्ध the tradition that the gospel थी आधारित on पीटर 's preaching.
The text is a compilation which may include eye-witness accounts as well as ज्ञात apostolic preachings, and pre-existing written रिकॉर्ड that do नहीं मौजूद आज लकिन can be पुष्टि इससे 2nd-century commentators.
Some of the कहानियां in the इन्जील may have been transmitted orally पहले being written down.
Various तत्व within the इन्जील suggest that the author लिखा in Syria or फिलिस्तीन for a non-Jewish Christian community.
the रब of the Rings is an epic high fantasy novel लिखा by अंग्रेज़ी भाषाशास्त्री and विश्वविद्यालयों of Oxford प्राध्यापक J. R. R. tolkien.
The story began as a sequel to Tolkien 's 1937 children 's काल्पनिक novel the होब्बिट, but आखिरकार विकसित into a much larger कार्य.
It was written in stages between 1937 and 1949, much of it during संसार War II.
It is the दूसरी best-selling अनोखा कभी written, with over 150 million copies sold.
The title of the अनोखा refers to the स्टोरी 's प्रमुख विपक्षी, the अंधेरा Lord Sauron, who had in an earlier age निर्मित the एक Ring to rule the other बजती of Power as the परम weapon in उसके अभियान to जीतें and rule सब of middle-earth.
From quiet beginnings in the शायर, a Hobbit land नहीं unlike the अंग्रेज़ी countryside, the story ranges आरपार north-west middle-earth, following the course of the युद्ध of the Ring through the आँखें of इसके characters, notably the hobbits frodo baggins, Samwise `` Sam '' gamgee, meriadoc `` Merry '' brandybuck and Peregrin `` pippin '' Took, लकिन भी the hobbits ' मुख्य allies and यात्राएं companions : Aragorn, a इंसान रेंजर ; boromir, a man from Gondor ; Gimli, a Dwarf योद्धा ; legolas, an Elven prince ; and gandalf, a Wizard.
The work was initially intended by tolkien to be एक volume of a two-volume set, with the other होने The Silmarillion, but this विचार थी dismissed by उसके प्रकाशक.
it was decided for आर्थिक reasons to प्रकाशित The Lord of the बजती as तीन आयतन over the course of a साल from 29 July 1954 to 20 October 1955, यूँ creating the now परिचित Lord of the बजती trilogy.
the three आयतन were हकदार The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers, and the Return of the King.
Structurally, the novel is विभाजित internally into six books, दो per volume, with अनेक appendices of background material शामिल at the end of the third volume.
the Lord of the Rings रै since महरूम reprinted numerous टाइम्स और translated into अनेक languages.
Tolkien 's कार्य has been the subject of extensive analysis of its themes and origins.
Although a प्रमुख work in itself, the story थी तभी the पिछला movement of a larger एपिक tolkien had worked on since 1917, in a process he वर्णित as mythopoeia.
Influences on this earlier कार्य, and on the story of The Lord of the बजती, शामिल philology, mythology, religion और the author 's distaste लिये the प्रभाव of industrialization, as खूब as पहले काल्पनिक works and Tolkien 's experiences in World War i.
The Lord of the Rings in its फेरे is माना to have had a ग्रेट effect on modern fantasy ; the प्रभाव of Tolkien 's works is ऐसे that the use of the words `` Tolkienian '' और `` Tolkienesque '' have महरूम recorded in the Oxford English Dictionary.
the enduring popularity of The रब of the बजती has led to numerous सन्दर्भ in लोकप्रिय culture, the founding of अनेक समाजों by fans of Tolkien 's works, and the publication of many books परिचय Tolkien और his works.
The Lord of the बजती has inspired, and continues to inspire, artwork, म्यूज़िक, films और television, वीडियो खेल, और subsequent साहित्य.
award-winning adaptations of the रब of the Rings have महरूम made for radio, theatre, और फिल्मी.
the following is an एपीसोड list लिये the Nickelodeon sitcom Drake & Josh.
the series debuted on जनवरी 11, 2004.
A tv फिल्मी Merry Christmas, Drake & Josh थी बना apart इससे the regular series on दिसम्बर 5, 2008.
वहीँ हैं a total of 60 episodes were उत्पादित spanning चार seasons.
Drake घंटी, जोश Peck, and Miranda cosgrove यहूद the तभी अभिनेताओं to appear in all 60 एपीसोड.
the सैन फ्रांसिस्को 49ers conduct training camp at the team 's मुख्यालय and practice facility in Santa Clara, कैलिफ़ोर्निया in अगस्त 2010.
the offense is wearing रेड jerseys साथ the exception of क्वार्टरबैक Alex Smith, who is in a ब्लैक jersey ; the रक्षा in श्वेत.
In the National फ़ुटबॉल लीग, training camp refers to the समय before the ऋतु commences.
दौरान this time, teams will sometimes congregate at an outside location, usually a विश्वविद्यालयों, to conduct प्रशिक्षण शिविर for at least the पहला few weeks.
इस is समान to baseball 's spring training.
Training camp is used in अनेक different ways.
New players and coaches उपयोग it to acclimate themselves to नई teammates और प्रणालियों.
For younger खिलाड़ी, it serves as a period of evaluation ; लिये दिग्गजों, it is time to गोलाकार वापस into form.
प्रशिक्षण शिविर is विभाजित into several अलग components.
the first is scrimmages.
ये are pseudo-games where teams चलाएं nearly full खेल ' worth of plays.
sometimes, two practice sessions are held on the same day.
इस अवधारणा is referred to as two-a-days.
Other parts of प्रशिक्षण camp शामिल drills, बैठक with coaches और अन्य खिलाड़ी at one 's position, weight प्रशिक्षण, and pre-season games.
the latter half of training शिविर leads directly into the प्रदर्शनी season.
साथ एनएफएल प्रशिक्षण camps starting in late-July, the biggest चिंता has been निर्जलीकरण.
in 2001, Minnesota वाइकिंग्स खिलाड़ी korey Stringer died of a चिकित्सा condition based from dehydration और heatstroke.
The death of Stringer prompted the NFL to change their प्रशिक्षण policies.
at each practice, every team जरूर have the team डॉक्टर and trainers on the फ़ील्ड ; additionally, an ambulance must be उपस्थित दौरान practices.
With NFL training camps beginning in लेट July, severe weather can affect अभ्यास and प्रदर्शनी games.
In 2002, a Cleveland भूरा प्रदर्शनी खेल ended due to lightning निकट Cleveland भूरा Stadium, और कठोर तूफ़ान have महरूम known to disrupt training camps.
Fans हैं often able to visit their favorite टोली 's training camp to catch an जल्दी look at the खिलाड़ी ; admission to practices is often free or substantially less expensive than a game टिकट, बनाना training शिविर trips a popular विकल्प लिये fans who can नहीं attend अनेक खेल due to financial or अन्य reasons.
NFL teams often sell कलाकृतियां and concessions at camp साइट along साथ offering activities और कार्यक्रम to मेक training शिविर a more fan-friendly अनुभव.
in computing, a file system ( or filesystem ) is a प्रकार of data स्टोर जिससे can be used to store, retrieve and अद्यतन a नियत of फाइलें.
the term could refer to the अमूर्त data structures used to define files, or to the वास्तविक तन्त्र or firmware components that implement the अमूर्त ideas.
Some संचिका systems हैं used on local data भंडार devices ; अन्य provide file अभिगम via a network protocol ( e.g. NFS, smb, or 9p clients ).
कुछ संचिका प्रणालियों हैं `` आभासी '', in that the `` फाइलें '' supplied हैं computed on request ( e.g. procfs ) or are merely a मानचित्रण into a different file प्रणाली used as a backing स्टोर.
the file system manages access to both the content of files और the metadata परिचय those फाइलें.
it is जिम्मेदार लिये arranging भंडार स्पेस ; reliability, दक्षता, and tuning साथ regard to the शारीरिक storage medium are important design considerations.
William Howard Taft ( September 15, 1857 – March 8, 1930 ) was the 27th अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य ( 1909–1913 ) and later the tenth Chief इंसाफ of the United राज्य ( 1921–1930 ).
He is the only person to have served in दोनो of ये कार्यालयों.
Before becoming अध्यक्ष, Taft, a Republican, was selected to serve on the Superior अदालत of सिनसिनाटी in 1887.
in 1890, taft was appointed solicitor General of the United राज्य and in 1891 a judge on the United राज्य Court of appeals for the छठे सर्किट.
In 1900, अध्यक्ष William McKinley appointed Taft Governor-General of the फिलीपीन.
In 1904, President Theodore Roosevelt नियुक्त taft Secretary of War in an प्रयत्न to groom Taft, तब his बंद political ally, into his handpicked अध्यक्षीय successor.
Taft assumed a prominent role in problem solving, assuming on some occasions the भूमिका of एक्टिंग सचिव of राज्य, जबकि declining repeated offers from रूज़वेल्ट to serve on the Supreme Court.
Riding a वेव of लोकप्रिय support for fellow Republican Roosevelt, Taft won an easy victory in उसके 1908 bid for the presidency.
in उसके only term, taft 's domestic कार्यसूची emphasized trust-busting, सिविल service reform, strengthening the Interstate Commerce आयोग, improving the performance of the postal service, और ड्योढ़ी of the सोलहवीं Amendment.
Abroad, taft sought to further the economic विकास of nations in लैटिन America and एशिया through `` Dollar Diplomacy ``, और showed decisiveness and संयम in जवाब to revolution in Mexico.
the task-oriented taft थी बेख़बर to the राजनैतिक ramifications of उसके decisions, प्रायः alienated उसके अपना key constituencies, and थी overwhelmingly पराजित in उसके bid for a second पद in the presidential election of 1912.
In सर्वेक्षण of अध्यक्षीय विद्वानों, Taft is usually क्रमित निकट the मध्य of सूचियाँ of all American राष्ट्रपतियों.
After leaving office, Taft खर्च his time in academia, मध्यस्थता, and the search for world सलाम through his self-founded League to Enforce Peace.
In 1921, after the First World युद्ध, President वारेन G. Harding appointed Taft मुख्य Justice of the United राज्य.
Taft परोसा in this capacity until shortly before उसके death in 1930.
The टेन Commandments is a 1956 epic फिल्मी produced and निर्देशित by सेसिल B. demille that dramatized the biblical story of the Exodus, in which the hebrew-born Moses, an adopted मिश्र प्रिंस, becomes the deliverer of the Hebrew स्लेव.
it starred चार्ल्टन Heston in the lead role, Yul brynner as his adoptive brother, Pharaoh rameses II, Anne Baxter as Nefretiri, एडवर्ड G. रॉबिन्सन as Dathan, Yvonne De Carlo as sephora, Debra पेजेट as Lilia, और जॉन Derek as Joshua.
The supporting cast शामिल सर Cedric Hardwicke as Pharaoh Seti i, Nina Foch as Bithiah, Martha स्कॉट as yoshebel, Judith Anderson as Memnet, Vincent Price as Baka, and John carradine as Aaron.
the फिल्मी was released by Paramount तस्वीरें in VistaVision on October 5, 1956.
The Ten Commandments, which DeMille narrated, was the पिछला फिल्मी that he directed.
He थी नियत to direct the 1958 remake of his 1938 film the Buccaneer, but उसके final बीमारी forced him to relinquish the directing chores to his son-in-law, कर्ता एंथोनी Quinn.
demille था भी planned to film the life of रब Baden Powell, the founder of the स्काउट movement, with David Niven ; इस project was never एहसास.
the Ten Commandments is a आंशिक remake of demille 's 1923 silent film.
Some of the cast and crew of the 1956 version worked on the असली.
It रै चूंकि been remade as a television miniseries broadcast in अप्रैल 2006.
The Ten Commandments is one of the most financially कामयाब films कभी made, grossing over $ 65 लाख at the U.S. बक्सा दफ्तर.
Adjusting for inflation, this makes it the छठे highest-grossing film domestically, साथ an समायोजित कुल of $ 1,025,730,000 in 2012.
the box दफ्तर website `` The Numbers '' lists the घरेलू सकल at $ 80 लाख.
In 1999, The Ten आयतें was चयनित for संरक्षण in the United States नेशनल फिल्मी Registry by the पुस्तकालयों of Congress as being `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
In जून 2008, the अमरीकी फिल्मी Institute revealed इसके `` टेन शीर्ष Ten `` —the बेहतरीन टेन films in ten अमरीकी फिल्मी genres—after polling over 1,500 people from the रचनात्मक जातियाँ.
The Ten आयतें थी listed as the tenth बेहतरीन फिल्मी in the एपिक विधा.
the film received seven Academy Award nominations including Best Picture, और जीती the Academy Award लिये बेहतरीन विज़ुअल Effects.
Charlton Heston was nominated लिये a Golden Globe Award लिये बेहतरीन Motion चित्र कर्ता in the drama श्रेणी.
yul brynner जीती the National फलक of पुनर्विलोकन Award for Best कर्ता for his role as Rameses, along with उसके other roles in The King और i और Anastasia.
Louisville (, or ) is a major नगर and the largest city in the U.S. राज्य of केंटकी और the county seat of जेफरसन काउंटी.
चूंकि 2003, the नगर 's borders have महरूम साथ those of the काउंटी because of a city-county विलय.
The city 's total संचित population at the 2010 census थी 741,096 ( Louisville 's balance कुल, 602,011, excludes semi-autonomous towns और is the population listed in सबसे स्त्रोत और national rankings ).
As of 2010, the Louisville metropolitan area ( MSA ) था a population of 1,307,647 रैंकिंग 42nd nationally.
the metro area includes Louisville-Jefferson County और 12 surrounding काउंटी, eight in केंटकी and four in Southern Indiana ( see Geography below ).
The Louisville संयुक्त सांख्यिकीय Area, having a population of 1,451,564, includes the एमएसए, Hardin काउंटी and larue काउंटी in केंटकी, और स्कॉट County, Indiana.
an important आतंरिक shipping port in the 19th century, louisville today is best known as the स्थान of the Kentucky डर्बी, the first of तीन annual thoroughbred horse races making up the ट्रिपल Crown.
A ठेठ experimental setup for an aldol reaction.
दोनो flasks are submerged in a dry ice/acetone कूलिंग नहाना ( −78 °C ) the temperature of which is होने monitored by a तापयुग्म ( the wire on the left ).
A कूलिंग नहाना, in laboratory chemistry ( प्रायः but नहीं always organic chemistry ) practice, is a liquid mixture which is used to maintain low temperatures, typically between 13 °C और −196 °C.
ये कम temperatures are used to collect liquids after distillation, to हटाएँ सॉल्वैंट्स using a rotary evaporator, or to perform a रासायनिक प्रतिक्रिया नीचे room तापमान ( देखिए : kinetic control ).
कूलिंग baths हैं generally one of दो प्रकार : ( a ) a cold द्रव ( particularly द्रव nitrogen, जल, or भी air ) — but most commonly the term refers to ( b ) a mixture of 3 components : ( 1 ) a cooling एजेंट ( such as शुष्क ice or जल ice ) ; ( b ) a liquid 'carrier ' ( such as द्रव जल, ethylene glycol, acetone, इत्यादि. ), जिससे हस्तांतरण heat between the नहाना और the पोत ; ; and ( c ) an योगात्मक to depress the melting-point of the solid/liquid प्रणाली.
( a familiar उदाहरण of this is the use of an ice/rock-salt mixture to freeze ice cream.
The phase-change of ice into द्रव water requires उर्जा, 'pulling ' heat from the system.
adding salt lowers the temp at जिससे इस happens, अर्थ अधिक उर्जा has to be अवशोषित इससे the environment in अनुक्रम to melt the बर्फ.
This effectively makes the बर्फ 'colder ' — it जरूर 'pull ' अधिक ऊष्मा इससे its environment to become liquid. )
खाने विकार are conditions defined by abnormal eating habits that may involve either अपर्याप्त or excessive food सेवन to the detriment of an व्यक्तिगत 's physical और mental स्वास्थ्य.
Bulimia nervosa and एनोरेक्सिया नर्वोज़ा are the सबसे common specific forms in the संयुक्त Kingdom.
अन्य प्रकार of eating विकार शामिल binge eating विकार and eating विकार नहीं otherwise specified.
Bulimia नर्वोज़ा is a disorder characterized by binge eating and purging.
Purging can include self-induce vomiting, over-exercising, और the usage of diuretics, enemas, और laxatives.
Anorexia नर्वोज़ा is characterized by extreme खाना restriction to the पाइंट of self-starvation और excessive वज़न घाटा.
Though primarily thought of as affecting females ( an अनुमानित 5–10 million होने affected in the U.K. ), eating disorders affect males as खूब.
an estimated 10 – 15 % of लोगों with eating विकार are males ( Gorgan, 1999 ).
( an estimated 1 लाख u.K. males होने प्रभावित ).
Although eating disorders are increasing सब over the world among both men और महिलाओं, वहीँ is evidence to suggest कि it is women in the पश्चिमी संसार जो are at the highest risk of developing them और the उपाधि of westernization increases the risk.
nearly हाफ of all अमेरिकी personally जान किसी with an eating disorder.
The skill to comprehend the central processes of appetite has increased tremendously since leptin was खोजा, और the skill to observe the कृत्यों of the brain as well.
Interactions between प्रेरक, homeostatic and self-regulatory control प्रक्रियाओं are शामिल in खाने आचरण, which is a key घटक in eating disorders.
the precise cause of खाने disorders is not entirely understood, but there is evidence that it may be linked to other चिकित्सा conditions and परिस्थितियों.
सांस्कृतिक idealization of thinness and youthfulness have contributed to eating विकार affecting विविध populations.
One study showed that girls साथ ADHD have a वृहद chance of getting an eating disorder than those not प्रभावित by ADHD.
another study suggested that women with PTSD, especially due to sexually सम्बन्धित trauma, हैं अधिक likely to develop anorexia nervosa.
One study showed कि फोस्टर लड़कियों are अधिक संभावित to develop bulimia nervosa.
Some सोचो that पीर pressure and idealized body-types seen in the मीडिया हैं also a significant फ़ैक्टर.
Some research show कि for निश्चित people there हैं genetic reasons क्यों they may be prone to विकासशील an खाने विकार.
हाल studies have found प्रमाण a correlation between patients with bulimia nervosa and substance use विकार.
in addition, चिंता disorders and व्यक्तित्व disorders are common आवृत्ति साथ clients of खाने disorders.
जबकि उचित treatment can be अत्यधिक effective for अनेक कष्ट from specific types of खाने विकार, the consequences of eating disorders can be कठोर, including मौत ( whether इससे direct medical effects of disturbed खाने habits or from comorbid conditions ऐसे as suicidal thinking ).
Slavery in the United States existed इससे the early सालो of the colonial काल ; it थी firmly established by the समय the United States sought independence इससे Great ब्रिटेन in 1776.
However, by 1804, all राज्य उत्तर of the मेसन and Dixon लकीर था either abolished slavery outright or passed laws लिये the gradual abolition of गुलामी.
In 1787 कॉंग्रेस prohibited slavery in the Northwest territory.
But slavery gained new life in the दक्षिण with the cotton industry after 1800, और expanded into the Southwest.
The nation थी polarized into slave and free states along the Mason-Dixon Line, जिससे separated Pennsylvania and Maryland.
the United States and Great Britain दोनो निषिद्ध the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्लेव trade in 1808, but the domestic व्यापार, with बिक्री to the गहन दक्षिण, विस्तारित dramatically, and many captives were shipped by the coastwise स्लेव trade.
पहले the 1840s, the South was vigorously defending गुलामी और इसके expansion into the territories.
in the उत्तर कुछ abolitionists denounced it as गुनाहगार, and numerous anti-slavery शक्तियां अस्वीकृत it as हानिकारक to the rights of free men.
After failed compromises and Abraham lincoln 's election, in 1861 ग्यारह slave states broke away to form the Confederate States of America, अग्रणी to the American Civil War.
the federal government in 1862 made abolition of गुलामी a युद्ध लक्ष्य.
in January 1863 President lincoln freed स्लेव in the confederacy through the emancipation उदघोषणा.
बाद the war, the Thirteenth Amendment, effective दिसम्बर 1865, abolished slavery throughout the entire United States, including the Border states and the भारतीय territories.
From the 16th to the 19th सदियां, an अनुमानित 12 लाख Africans यहूद shipped as स्लेव to the americas.
See Slavery in the americas.
The great majority went to the शुगर plantations of the West इंडीज or Brazil, where मृत्यु was high.
About 645,000 यहूद brought to कया is now the संयुक्त States.
By the 1860 संयुक्त States जनसांख्यिकी, the slave जनसांख्यिकी in the American South था grown to चार million.
of सब 1,515,605 परिवारों in the 15 slave states, nearly 400,000 held slaves ( roughly one in चार ), amounting to 8 % of all अमरीकी families.
जबकि कुछ slaves worked as house servants and शहरी शिल्पकार, the great बहुमत worked on बागानों or large खेतो, cultivating lucrative cash crops, ऐसे as rice, tobacco, sugar और, after 1800, chiefly cotton.
By 1860 most slaves were held in the Deep South, where they served in work-gangs ; two-thirds worked in cotton.
In छोटी परिचालन, वे worked with their स्वामी.
In large plantations they were directed by white paid overseers.
Under the system that became chattel गुलामी ( ownership of a human being, and of his/her वंशजों ), a जातिगत element was fundamental : slaves यहूद blacks of अफ़्रीकी descent and owned, almost universally, by whites of European descent.
In the 17th century, Virginia, followed by other दक्षिणी colonies, enacted law that children of स्लेव mothers यहूद born into slavery.
स्लेव could gain freedom only by running दूर ( which थी मुश्किल और illegal to do ), or by manumission by owners, which थी regulated by राज्य, and became increasingly मुश्किल or prohibited.
In the earliest era of chattel slavery, the colonies also व्यवस्थित work by a प्रणाली of bonded मजदूर known as indentured servitude.
इस typically lasted for several years लिये both ग़रीब europeans and Africans alike, to pay off the costs of transport to the colonies.
They contracted for such इंतजाम because of poor economies in their home countries.
between 1680 और 1700, as fewer Europeans migrated to the colonies, planters began to import more africans as slaves.
recognizing the importance of slavery, the हाउस of Burgesses in Virginia enacted a new slave code in 1705 ; it combined a variety of legislation और added new प्रावधानों enforcing white supremacy in the law.
Schematic क्रॉस section of part of leaf, xylem shown as रेड circles at figure 8.
Xylem is one of the two types of हस्तांतरण ऊतक in vascular पौधे ( फ्लोएम is the अन्य ).
The शब्द xylem is derived इससे the Greek word ξύλον ( xylon ), meaning `` लकडी '' ; the best-known जाइलम tissue is wood, हालांकि it is मिला throughout the संयंत्र.
Its मौलिक फलन is to transport water, लकिन it also transports कुछ nutrients through the संयंत्र.
This clock representation shows कुछ of the प्रमुख units of geological समय and definitive कार्यक्रम of Earth history.
The hadean इओन represents the time before चट्टान record of जीवन on Earth ; इसके अपर boundary is now regarded as 4.0 ga ( अरब सालो ago ).
अन्य subdivisions प्रतिबिंबित the evolution of जीवन ; the archean और proterozoic are दोनो eons, the Palaeozoic, Mesozoic and Cenozoic are eras of the Phanerozoic इओन.
The दो million साल quaternary काल, the time of recognizable इंसानो, is too छोटी to be दृश्य at इस स्केल.
The geologic समय scale is a system of कालानुक्रमिक measurement कि relates स्तरिकी to समय, and is प्रयुक्त by geologists, paleontologists, and अन्य धरती scientists to describe the timing and संबंध between कार्यक्रम that have occurred throughout Earth 's history.
the तालिका of geologic time spans प्रस्तुत यहाँ agrees साथ the dates and nomenclature set forth by the International आयोग on स्तरिकी standard रंग कोड of the International आयोग on Stratigraphy.
Evidence from radiometric डेटिंग indicates कि the धरती is about 4.54 अरब years बूढ़ा.
the geology or गहन time of Earth 's past has महरूम organized into various units according to events which took place in each period.
Different spans of समय on the gts are प्रायः delimited by changes in the composition of strata जिससे correspond to them, indicating major geological or paleontological events, ऐसे as mass extinctions.
For example, the boundary between the Cretaceous period and the paleogene काल is पारिभाषित by the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event, which marked the निधन of the dinosaurs और अनेक अन्य groups of जीवन.
पुरानी time spans which predate the reliable चट्टान record ( before the Proterozoic Eon ) are defined by absolute age.
The TI-82 is a graphing calculator made by टेक्सास Instruments.
The TI-82 थी designed in 1993 as a stripped down, more उपयोक्ता friendly संस्करण of the TI-85, and as a replacement for the TI-81.
It was the direct predecessor of the TI-83.
it साझा साथ the TI-85 a 6 mhz zilog Z80 माइक्रोप्रोसेसर.
जैसे the ti-81, the ti-82 features a 96x64 पिक्सेल प्रदर्शक, और the कोर feature नियत of the TI-81 साथ many नई सुविधाएँ.
The डाल of characters of the किंग of Fighters XI.
The King of Fighters fighting game श्रेणी, उत्पादित by SNK Playmore, शामिल a wide डाल of characters, some of which हैं taken इससे अन्य snk games.
The story takes place in a fictional ब्रह्मांड in which an annual श्रेणी of 3-on-3 or 4-on-4 लड़ tournaments are आयोजित.
the पहला game in the series introduces the आरंभिक main character of the series, Kyo Kusanagi, a young जापानी fighter who is the heir to a powerful group of martial artists having pyrokinetic abilities.
Kyo fights विरूद्ध the Kusanagi गोत्र 's enemies, his rival Iori Yagami, and the परमेश्वर orochi and its इंसान followers, among अन्य.
The पहला four games in the श्रेणी revolve about these fights, while the King of सेनानी '99 introduces a नई story arc, revolving around K ', a young man जो seeks to destroy the रहस्यमय nests संगठन because they kidnapped उसे at an जल्दी age और stripped him of his past memories, so कि they could force him to be a सेनानी under उनके control.
in the King of सेनानी 2003, a new character नामित राख crimson enters the टूर्नामेंट, to steal the शक्तियां of the clans who sealed the orochi in the पास्ट for an unknown कारण.
a new समूह of antagonists, known as Those इससे the Past, also appears in the series ; वे want to obtain orochi 's शक्ति for the purpose of giving it to their unknown निपुण.
the plot और the characters came इससे the Yamata no orochi लेजेंड.
There are भी several characters in the खेल that are parodies or homages to several popular anime, manga, और films.
Merchandise आधारित on the characters रै also महरूम released, including action आंकड़े and keychains.
The characters have garnered praise from several वीडियो game publications for the quality of उनके डिजाइन और movesets.
टिप्पणी focused on the lack of improvements in some of the वर्ण, but added that the roster is greatly diverse.
Whale Wars is a साप्ताहिक अमरीकी documentary-style reality television series that premiered on November 7, 2008 on the Animal Planet केबल channel.
The program follows Paul Watson, founder of the समुद्र Shepherd संरक्षण समाज, as he and the crew सवार उनके विभिन्न vessels harass जापानी whalers बंद the coast of Antarctica.
On जनवरी 5, 2013, Animal Planet renewed the series लिये a sixth season.
The Harpy Eagle ( Harpia harpyja ) is a neotropical प्रजाति of eagle.
it is sometimes ज्ञात as the American Harpy Eagle to फर्क it इससे the Papuan Eagle जिससे is sometimes ज्ञात as the New Guinea Harpy Eagle or Papuan Harpy त्रिभुज.
It is the largest और सबसे शक्तिशाली रैप्टर मिला in the americas, and among the largest extant प्रजाति of eagles in the world.
it usually inhabits tropical lowland rainforests in the अपर ( emergent ) canopy परत.
Destruction of its प्राकृतिक आवास रै seen it vanish इससे many भाग of its पूर्व दायरा, and it is nearly extirpated in Central अमेरिका.
biological classification, or scientific वर्गीकरण in जीवविज्ञान, is a विधि of scientific taxonomy used to समूह और categorize जीवों into groups such as genus or प्रजाति.
These groups are known as taxa ( singular : taxon ).
Modern biological वर्गीकरण has इसके रूट in the work of Carolus Linnaeus, जो grouped प्रजाति according to साझा physical characteristics.
These groupings have चूंकि महरूम revised to improve consistency with the darwinian principle of common descent.
With the introduction of the cladistic method in the लेट 20th सदी, phylogenetic taxonomy in जिससे जीवों are grouped based purely on inferred evolutionary relatedness, ignoring morphological समानता, has become common in कुछ areas of जीवविज्ञान.
Molecular phylogenetics, which उपयोग डीएनए sequences as आंकड़ा, रै also चलित अनेक recent revisions and is संभावित to continue doing so.
biological classification belongs to the विज्ञान of biological systematics.
लेनन 's signature
John Winston ओनो लेनन, ( born John Winston Lennon ; 9 October 1940 – 8 दिसम्बर 1980 ) was an अंग्रेज़ी संगीतकार, singer and songwriter who रोज़ to worldwide कीर्ति as a founder सदस्य of the बीटल्स, one of the most commercially कामयाब and critically acclaimed अधिनियमों in the history of popular music.
साथ Paul McCartney, he formed one of the most मनाये songwriting partnerships of the 20th century.
Born and raised in Liverpool, as a किशोरावस्था Lennon became involved in the skiffle craze ; उसके पहला band, the Quarrymen, evolved into the Beatles in 1960.
as the समूह disintegrated towards the समाप्त of the decade, Lennon embarked on a सोलो career कि produced the critically acclaimed एल्बम जॉन Lennon/Plastic Ono Band और imagine, and iconic songs such as `` दे Peace a मौका `` and `` imagine ``.
बाद his विवाह to Yoko ओनो in 1969, he changed his name to जॉन Ono Lennon.
Lennon disengaged खुद from the music business in 1975 to devote time to raising उसके शिशु son Sean, लकिन re-emerged with Ono in 1980 with the new album Double Fantasy.
he was murdered three weeks after इसके release.
लेनन revealed a rebellious nature and acerbic wit in his म्यूज़िक, writing, drawings, on film and in interviews.
Controversial through his राजनैतिक and peace activism, he स्थानांतरित to New York City in 1971, where his criticism of the वियतनाम युद्ध resulted in a lengthy attempt by Richard Nixon 's administration to deport him, जबकि some of his songs were अपनाया as anthems by the anti-war movement.
As of 2012, Lennon 's सोलो album sales in the United States exceed 14 million units, and as writer, co-writer or performer, he is responsible for 25 number-one singles on the US hot 100 चार्ट.
in 2002, a बीबीसी poll on the 100 Greatest britons voted him eighth, and in 2008, रोलिंग Stone ranked him the fifth-greatest singer of all समय.
He थी posthumously inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 1987 and into the चट्टान और Roll Hall of Fame in 1994.
Statue of Rip वैन Winkle in Irvington, New यॉर्क, not far इससे `` sunnyside ``, the घर of Washington इरविंग
`` Rip Van winkle '' is a छोटी story by अमरीकी लेखक Washington Irving published in 1819, as well as the name of the स्टोरी 's fictional protagonist.
लिखा while इरविंग थी living in Birmingham, England, it was भाग of a संग्रहण entitled the स्केच Book of Geoffrey crayon.
हालांकि the story is set in New York 's Catskill kyu, Irving later admitted, `` When i wrote the स्टोरी, I था never been on the catskills. ''
Throughout the fifty-five साल history of the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, many significant records have महरूम set.
This पेज तभी शामिल the competitive पुरस्कार जीती by विभिन्न artists.
This करता not शामिल the विभिन्न special पुरस्कार कि are presented by the नेशनल Academy of Recording कला और Sciences ऐसे as आजीवन Achievement पुरस्कार, Trustees Awards, तकनीकी Awards or लेजेंड Awards.
the page however does शामिल अन्य non-performance related Grammys ( ज्ञात as the Craft & उत्पादन Fields ) that may have been presented to the कलाकार ( s ).
Pee-wee Herman is a comic fictional character निर्मित and portrayed by अमरीकी comedian पॉल Reubens.
he is बेहतरीन known लिये उसके दो television series and film श्रेणी दौरान the 1980s.
the childlike Pee-wee herman अक्षर विकसित as a स्टेज act that quickly led to an HBO खास in 1981.
As the स्टेज performance gained further popularity, Reubens took the character to motion चित्र साथ Pee-wee 's बिग Adventure in 1985, toning bas the वयस्क innuendo for the अपील of children.
इस paved the way लिये Pee-wee 's Playhouse, an Emmy Award winning children 's series कि ran on CBS from 1986-1991.
Another फिल्मी, बिग Top pee-wee, was released in 1988.
Due to ऋणात्मक मीडिया ध्यान following a कांड in 1991, reubens decided to shelve his alter अहंकार दौरान the 1990s, and तब gradually resurrected it during the following दशक.
It थी at कि time that Reubens addressed plans to write a नई pee-wee फिल्मी, Pee-wee 's Playhouse : the फिल्म.
In जून 2007, Reubens appeared as pee-wee Herman लिये the पहला time चूंकि 1991 at स्पाइक tv 's यारों ' Choice पुरस्कार.
That '70s दिखाएँ is an American television period sitcom that centers on the lives of a समूह of teenage friends जीना in the fictional suburban town of पाइंट Place, विस्कॉन्सिन, इससे may 17, 1976, to December 31, 1979.
It debuted on the फॉक्स television network, पहला airing on August 23, 1998, running for eight लगातार seasons, and concluding साथ the 200th एपीसोड on may 18, 2006.
The प्रमुख teenage cast members यहूद Topher अनुग्रह, Mila kunis, Ashton कूचर, Danny Masterson, Laura Prepon, और wilmer valderrama.
The main adult cast members यहूद डेबरा jo rupp, Kurtwood Smith, Don स्टार्क and, दौरान the पहला तीन सीज़न, तान्या Roberts.
कान्सास ( ) is a u.S. state located in the midwestern संयुक्त States.
It is named after the कान्सास नदी which बहती through it, which in turn was named बाद the Kansa Native अमरीकी जनजाति, which inhabited the क्षेत्रफल.
the tribe 's नाम ( natively kką : ze ) is प्रायः said to mean `` people of the wind '' or `` people of the south हवा, '' although this was probably नहीं the term 's original meaning.
निवासियों of Kansas are called `` Kansans. ''
For thousands of सालो what is now कान्सास was home to numerous and diverse Native अमरीकी tribes.
जनजातियों in the Eastern भाग of the state generally जिया in villages along the river valleys.
Tribes in the Western भाग of the state were semi- nomadic और hunted large herds of bison.
Kansas was first settled by European अमेरिकी in the 1830s, लकिन the pace of settlement accelerated in the 1850s, in the midst of political wars over the गुलामी issue.
जब officially opened to settlement by the U.S. government in 1854, abolitionist Free-Staters from New इंग्लैण्ड and pro-slavery settlers इससे neighboring मिसौरी rushed to the territory to determine if कान्सास would become a free state or a स्लेव राज्य.
Thus, the area was a hotbed of violence and chaos in इसके early days as these forces collided, and was known as bleeding Kansas.
the abolitionists आखिरकार prevailed and on January 29, 1861, Kansas entered the संघ as a free state.
बाद the सिविल युद्ध, the population of कान्सास grew rapidly, when waves of आप्रवासियों turned the prairie into farmland.
Today, Kansas is one of the सबसे productive agricultural states, producing ऊँची yields of wheat, sorghum and sunflowers.
Kansas is the 15th सबसे extensive और the 33rd most populous of the 50 संयुक्त राज्य.
Psychology is an academic और applied अनुशासन कि involves the scientific study of mental कृत्यों और व्यवहार.
Psychology रै the immediate goal of understanding individuals और groups by both establishing सामान्य principles और researching विशिष्ट cases, और by many खाते it ultimately aims to लाभ society.
in this field, a professional or शोधकर्ता is called a psychologist और can be वर्गीकृत as a सोशल, behavioral, or cognitive वैज्ञानिक.
Psychologists attempt to समझे the role of mental कृत्यों in व्यक्तिगत और social बर्ताव, while also exploring the physiological और neurobiological प्रक्रियाओं कि underlie निश्चित संज्ञानात्मक functions और व्यवहार.
Psychologists explore अवधारणाओं such as बोध, संज्ञान, ध्यान, emotion, phenomenology, प्रेरणा, brain functioning, personality, बर्ताव, and interpersonal relationships.
psychologists of diverse धारियाँ also consider the unconscious mind.
Psychologists employ अनुभवजन्य विधि to infer causal and correlational relationships between psychosocial variables.
In addition, or in opposition, to employing empirical और deductive methods, some—especially नैदानिक and counseling psychologists—at टाइम्स rely upon symbolic निर्वचन और other आगमनात्मक तकनीकों.
Psychology रै been described as a `` हब विज्ञान '', with मनोवैज्ञानिक findings linking to research और perspectives इससे the social sciences, natural sciences, आयुर्विज्ञान, and the humanities, such as दर्शनशास्त्र.
While psychological knowledge is often लागू to the assessment and treatment of दिमागी स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं, it is also directed towards understanding and solving problems in अनेक different spheres of इंसान activity.
The majority of psychologists हैं शामिल in some kind of therapeutic भूमिका, practicing in नैदानिक, counseling, or school जमावट.
Many do scientific शोध on a चौड़ी दायरा of topics related to mental processes and बर्ताव, and typically कार्य in university मनोविज्ञान departments or सिखा in अन्य academic जमावट ( e.g., medical schools, अस्पताल ).
कुछ are employed in औद्योगिक and organizational settings, or in अन्य areas such as human विकास और aging, sports, स्वास्थ्य, और the media, as well as in forensic investigation और अन्य aspects of law.
Thomas Jefferson ( April 13, 1743 ( अप्रैल 2, 1743 o.S. ) – जुलाई 4, 1826 ) was an अमरीकी Founding पिता, the principal लेखक of the Declaration of Independence ( 1776 ) and the third President of the United राज्य ( 1801–1809 ).
at the शुरूआत of the American Revolution, he served in the Continental कॉंग्रेस, representing वर्जिनिया and then served as a wartime Governor of वर्जिनिया ( 1779–1781 ).
Just बाद the war ended, from mid-1784 जेफरसन served as a diplomat, stationed in Paris.
In May 1785, he became the United States मंत्री to फ़्रांस.
जेफरसन was the पहला United राज्य Secretary of राज्य ( 1790–1793 ) सेवारत under President George वॉशिंगटन.
साथ उसके बंद friend जेम्स Madison he व्यवस्थित the Democratic-Republican पार्टी, और subsequently resigned इससे वॉशिंगटन 's cabinet.
Elected वाइस President in 1796, जब he came in second to John Adams of the federalists, Jefferson opposed एडम्स और with मैडिसन secretly wrote the केंटकी और Virginia रिज़ॉल्यूशन, which attempted to nullify the Alien and Sedition Acts.
निर्वाचित president in कया Jefferson called the क्रान्ति of 1800, he oversaw the purchase of the vast Louisiana Territory इससे France ( 1803 ), and sent the Lewis and क्लार्क Expedition ( 1804–1806 ) to explore the new वेस्ट.
His दूसरी term was घिरा साथ troubles at home, such as the failed treason trial of उसके former Vice अध्यक्ष Aaron Burr.
With escalating ट्रबल with Britain who थी चुनौतीपूर्ण American neutrality and threatening शिपिंग at sea, he tried आर्थिक warfare with his embargo laws which only damaged American trade.
in 1803, President जेफरसन initiated a process of भारतीय जनजातीय removal and relocation to the louisiana Territory वेस्ट of the Mississippi River, in अनुक्रम to खोलें lands for eventual American settlers.
A leader in the आत्मज्ञान, Jefferson was a polymath जो spoke पाँच languages fluently and was deeply interested in science, invention, वास्तुकला, religion and philosophy, interests कि led him to the founding of the University of Virginia after उसके presidency.
He designed उसके own विशाल mansion on a 5,000 acre plantation near charlottesville, वर्जिनिया, which he नामित Monticello.
जबकि नहीं a notable orator, Jefferson थी a skilled writer and corresponded with अनेक influential लोगों in अमेरिका और Europe throughout his वयस्क जीवन.
Though जेफरसन स्वामित्व many स्लेव, he opposed the institution all उसके जीवन और नतीजतन treated and took care of them very खूब and expected them to work no अधिक than फ़्री किसानो.
Since 1802 historians and others have been divided over the controversy of whether जेफरसन was the father of one or अधिक children belonging to सैली hemings, a slave at Monticello. ''
इतिहासकारों हैं also in असहमति with how much Jefferson was committed to the anti-slavery cause.
In 1807, President Jefferson हस्ताक्षरित into law a bill that बैन the importation of slaves into the United राज्य.
After Martha Jefferson, उसके बीवी of eleven years, died in 1782, Jefferson remained a widower लिये the rest of his जीवन ; their marriage produced six children, of जिसको दो survived to adulthood.
Though Jefferson has महरूम criticized by अनेक modern दिन scholars over the issue of गुलामी, he remains रेटेड as one of the greatest U.S. presidents.
`` Sun City '' is a 1985 protest सोंग written by स्टीवन वैन zandt, produced by वैन zandt और Arthur Baker and अंकित by Artists United विरूद्ध Apartheid to convey विपक्ष to the दक्षिण African नीति of apartheid.
The primary means of कि opposition is to घोषित कि सब the artists शामिल would इंकार कोई and सब offers to perform at सूर्य City, a resort which was located in Bantustan of bophuthatswana, एक of a क्रमांक of internationally अपरिचित supposed `` स्वतंत्र '' राज्य created by the South African सरकारी to forcibly relocate its ब्लैक population.
इस पेज is a list of characters in the पुलिस Academy film and television श्रेणी.
विधेयक रसेल won 11 championships साथ the Boston Celtics.
This is a list of NBA players with most championships won as a player.
The National Basketball Association ( NBA ) is a प्रमुख professional बास्केट league in North America.
it was founded in 1946 as the Basketball Association of America ( BAA ).
The लीग adopted its current नाम at the start of the when it merged with the National Basketball लीग ( nbl ).
The एनबीए फाइनल is the चैंपियनशिप series for the एनबीए और the निष्कर्ष of the खेल 's postseason.
the जीतना team of the series receives the लैरी o'brien Championship ट्रॉफी.
Players from the winning team प्रायः receive चैंपियनशिप बजती from the टोली honoring their योगदान.
however, in some rare अवसर, the टीमों opted to gave other commemorative वस्तुएं, ऐसे as wrist watches, instead of बजती.
The number of championships जीती by NBA superstars is प्रायः used as a मापन of their greatness.
बोस्टन Celtics center विधेयक Russell holds the record लिये the most NBA championships जीती साथ 11 शीर्षक दौरान उसके 13-year playing करियर.
He won his पहला championship with the Boston सेल्टिक्स in उसके rookie साल.
Afterwards, he went on to win 10 championships in the अगला 12 years, including eight लगातार championships इससे 1959 to 1966.
he जीती the पिछला two championships in 1968 and 1969 as player-coach.
रसेल 's teammate, Sam जोन्स, won 10 championships इससे 1959 to 1969, the second most in NBA history.
Four सेल्टिक्स खिलाड़ी, Tom heinsohn, K. C. जोन्स, Satch सैंडर्स और जॉन Havlicek, जीती eight championships each.
Two other Celtics, Jim Loscutoff and Frank Ramsey, won सात championships each.
चार खिलाड़ी, Bob cousy, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, माइकल जॉर्डन and Scottie Pippen, won छह championships प्रत्येक.
Jordan and Pippen are सदस्यों of the Chicago bulls team जो won three consecutive championships twice in the 1990s.
रॉबर्ट Horry and जॉन Salley हैं the तभी players to have won the championships with तीन अलग teams.
Horry जीती seven championships साथ the Houston Rockets, the लॉस Angeles लेकर्स and the सैन Antonio Spurs, while Salley won चार championships with the Detroit पिस्टन्स, the Bulls and the Lakers.
Frank शाऊल और Steve Kerr हैं the तभी players to win two championships साथ दो different teams in consecutive seasons.
Saul won consecutive championships with the रोचेस्टर Royals and the Minneapolis लेकर्स in the 1950s, जबकि Kerr won लगातार championships साथ the Bulls and the Spurs in the 1990s,
सटीकता indicates निकटता of मापन परिणाम to the true मान, परिशुद्धता to the repeatability, or reproducibility of the मापन
In the fields of विज्ञान, अभियान्त्रिकी, उद्योग, and आंकडे, the accuracy of a मापन प्रणाली is the degree of closeness of माप of a quantity to that मात्रा 's वास्तविक ( सच्चा ) मान.
the परिशुद्धता of a measurement system, भी called reproducibility or repeatability, is the degree to जिससे repeated measurements अंतर्गत अपरिवर्तित conditions show the वही परिणाम.
हालांकि the two words reproducibility and repeatability can be synonymous in colloquial use, they हैं deliberately contrasted in the context of the वैज्ञानिक method.
A measurement system can be सटीक लकिन not precise, precise but not accurate, neither, or दोनो.
For उदाहरण, if an प्रयोग contains a व्यवस्थित error, तब increasing the sample size generally increases precision but does not improve accuracy.
The result होता be a सतत yet inaccurate स्ट्रिंग of results from the flawed experiment.
Eliminating the व्यवस्थित गलती improves accuracy but does नहीं बदलें precision.
a मापन system is designated मान्य if it is दोनो accurate and precise.
Related शर्तें शामिल पूर्वाग्रह ( non- यादृच्छिक or निर्देशित प्रभाव caused by a फ़ैक्टर or कारकों unrelated to the independent परिवर्तनीय ) और गलती ( random variability ).
The शब्दावली is also applied to indirect measurements—that is, मान obtained by a computational procedure from observed आंकड़ा.
In जोड to accuracy and precision, माप may भी have a मापन रेज़ोल्यूशन, जिससे is the smallest change in the underlying physical quantity कि produces a जवाब in the measurement.
in the case of full reproducibility, ऐसे as जब rounding a क्रमांक to a representable floating point number, the शब्द परिशुद्धता has a meaning not सम्बन्धित to reproducibility.
For example, in the आईईईई 754-2008 standard it means the क्रमांक of बिट्स in the significand, so it is used as a माप लिये the सापेक्ष सटीकता with which an मनमानी क्रमांक can be represented.
Fuck in इसके शाब्दिक meaning refers to the अधिनियम of यौन मैथुन.
It is an English word कि is प्रायः used as a profanity, either to denote तिरस्कार or as an intensifier.
the उत्पत्ति of the शब्द is obscure.
It is प्रायः considered to be पहला attested to around 1475, लकिन it may be considerably पुरानी.
In आधुनिक उपयोग, fuck और इसके derivatives ( such as fucker and fucking ) can be प्रयुक्त in the स्थिति of a noun, a verb, an adjective or an adverb.
वहीँ हैं अनेक आम वाक्यांश जिससे make use of the word, as खूब as a number of यौगिकों incorporating it, ऐसे as motherfucker.
Animated, color-coded map प्रर्दशित the various continents and regions.
Depending on the convention और मॉडल, कुछ continents may be संचित or subdivided : लिये example, Eurasia is most प्रायः subdivided into Europe और Asia ( रेड shades ), while North and South अमेरिका are sometimes पहचाना as एक American continent ( green शेड्स ).
A महाद्वीप is one of अनेक बहुत large landmasses on धरती.
They are generally identified by convention rather than कोई सख्त मापदण्ड, with up to seven regions commonly regarded as continents—they are ( from largest in size to smallest ) : Asia, Africa, उत्तर अमेरिका, South अमेरिका, Antarctica, यूरोपीय, और ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
In भूविज्ञान, continents हैं described by अर्थात् of tectonic plates.
Plate विवर्तनिकी is the प्रक्रम and study of the गति, टक्कर and प्रभाग of continents, earlier known as महाद्वीपीय drift.
बाइकर Boyz is a 2003 फिल्मी परिचय a group of underground motorcycle drag racers.
it stars laurence Fishburne, Djimon Hounsou, Derek Luke, meagan Good, and Larenz Tate and is लिखा और निर्देशित by reggie Rock bythewood.
it also सुविधाएँ Lisa Bonet, Orlando Jones, Kid चट्टान and Vanessa घंटी calloway.
For the Steel Panther song, see Feel the स्टील.
जातियाँ property is a marital property regime कि originated in सिविल law jurisdictions और is now also found in some आम विधि jurisdictions.
The states of the United States कि recognize community प्रॉपर्टी हैं primarily in the West ; it was inherited इससे Mexico 's ganancial जातियाँ प्रणाली, जिससे itself was inherited इससे Spanish law ( a Roman -derived सिविल विधि प्रणाली ) और ultimately from the Visigoths.
जबकि under Spanish rule Louisiana अपनाया the ganancial community प्रणाली of acquests और gains, which replaced the traditional French जातियाँ of movables और acquests in इसके civil law system.
Map of the United States with जातियाँ property states highlighted in red.
In addition to the highlighted states, Alaska is a separate प्रॉपर्टी state that permits couples to opt into a जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी arrangement.
in a जातियाँ property jurisdiction, most प्रॉपर्टी acquired during the विवाह ( except लिये gifts or inheritances ) —the जातियाँ, or communio bonorum—is owned jointly by both spouses और is विभाजित upon तलाक, annulment or मौत.
Joint स्वामित्व is automatically presumed by विधि in the absence of विशिष्ट evidence that would पाइंट to a contrary conclusion for a particular टुकड़ा of property.
प्रभाग of community property may take place by item, by splitting सब items or by value.
in some jurisdictions, such as California, a 50/50 division of community property is सख्ती mandated by statute, अर्थ कि the फ़ोकस then shifts to whether particular items are to be वर्गीकृत as community or separate प्रॉपर्टी.
In other jurisdictions, such as Texas, a तलाक court may डिक्री an `` equitable वितरण `` of community प्रॉपर्टी, which may result in an unequal प्रभाग of ऐसे.
in non-community प्रॉपर्टी राज्य property may be divided by equitable distribution.
Generally speaking, the प्रॉपर्टी that each partner brings into the विवाह or receives by तोहफा, bequest or मक्कारी during marriage is called separate प्रॉपर्टी ( i.e., not community प्रॉपर्टी ).
See division of property.
Division of जातियाँ debts may नहीं be the same as division of community property.
For example, in California, community प्रॉपर्टी is required to be विभाजित `` बराबर '' while community कर्ज़ is required to be विभाजित `` equitably ''.
प्रॉपर्टी कि is owned by one जीवनसाथी पहले the विवाह is the separate property of कि spouse, unless the प्रॉपर्टी is `` transmuted '' into community property.
The rules for इस vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
the Duke and duchess of कैम्ब्रिज हिलाता to the भीड at The Mall shortly बाद the विवाह.
The wedding of Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, and Catherine Middleton took place on 29 April 2011 at वेस्टमिंस्टर ऐबी in London.
The दूल्हे, Prince William, Duke of कैम्ब्रिज, is the eldest बेटे of चार्ल्स, Prince of वेल्स, और is second in the line of succession to the British सिंहासन and the तख्तों of पंद्रह other राष्ट्रमंडल realms.
the bride, Catherine `` Kate '' Middleton is the ज्येष्ठ of तीन children of Michael and carole Middleton of Bucklebury, Berkshire.
The डीन of Westminster, John Hall, presided at the service ; the Archbishop of Canterbury, rowan Williams, conducted the विवाह ; रिचर्ड chartres, the Bishop of लंदन, preached the sermon ; and a reading थी given by the बहू 's brother, James.
William 's best man was उसके brother, Prince हैरी, जबकि the bride 's सिस्टर, पिप्पा, was maid of इज्ज़त.
the रस्म was attended by the बहू 's and groom 's परिवारों, as well as अनेक विदेशी रॉयल्स, diplomats, and the couple 's chosen निजी अतिथि.
After the ceremony, the couple made the traditional appearance on the बालकनी of बकिंघम Palace.
as प्रिंस विलियम थी not the वारिस apparent to the सिंहासन, the विवाह was not a full state occasion and many details यहूद left to the couple to decide, such as much of the अतिथि सूची of परिचय 1,900.
Prince विलियम और केट मिडलटन मिले in 2001.
उनके सगाई on 20 October 2010 थी announced on 16 नवम्बर 2010.
The build-up to the wedding and the अवसर itself attracted much मीडिया attention, being compared in अनेक ways with the 1981 विवाह of William 's अभिभावक.
The occasion थी a public अवकाश in the United Kingdom और featured many ceremonial aspects, सहित use of the राज्य carriages and roles लिये the Foot गार्ड and Household प्यादे.
Events यहूद आयोजित around the Commonwealth to चिह्नित the विवाह ; संगठनों और hotels held events across कनाडा, over 5,000 गली parties यहूद held throughout the संयुक्त किंगडम, and एक million लोगों lined the रूट between Westminster Abbey and Buckingham Palace.
The ceremony थी viewed live by tens of millions more around the संसार, including 72 million on the youtube royal Channel.
In the United Kingdom, टेलीविज़न ऑडियंस peaked at 26.3 million viewers, with a कुल of 36.7 million watching part of the कवरेज.
वैनेसा Joy lachey ( née minnillo ; born नवम्बर 9, 1980 ) is an अमरीकी television personality, टेलीविज़न host, फ़ैशन model, and actress.
Minnillo was also named Miss टीन USA in 1998.
वो has been a New York -आधारd correspondent लिये Entertainment tonight and hosted Total Request सजीव on एमटीवी.
A hand ( med. / lat. : manus, pl. manūs ) is a prehensile, multi- fingered extremity स्तिथ at the end of an arm or forelimb of primates और इंसानो, chimpanzees, monkeys, and lemurs.
A few other vertebrates ऐसे as the कोआला ( which has two opposable thumbs on प्रत्येक `` hand '' और फिंगरप्रिंट remarkably समान to human fingerprints ) हैं often वर्णित as having either `` हैंड्स '' or `` paws '' on their सामने limbs.
Hands हैं the प्रमुख structures for physically manipulating the environment, used for दोनो gross motor skills ( such as grasping a large ऑब्जेक्ट ) and ठीक मोटर skills ( ऐसे as picking up a small pebble ).
The उंगलियों contain some of the densest areas of nerve endings on the body, हैं the richest source of tactile feedback, and have the महानतम positioning capability of the body ; thus the sense of touch is intimately associated साथ हैंड्स.
जैसे other paired अंगों ( आँखें, फीट, legs ), each हाथ is dominantly controlled by the opposing brain hemisphere, so that handedness, or the पसन्दीदा hand चुनाव for single-handed activities ऐसे as लिखने with a पेंसिल, reflects व्यक्तिगत दिमाग कामकाज.
कुछ विकासवादी anatomists उपयोग the पद hand to refer to the appendage of अंक on the forelimb more generally — for उदाहरण, in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of whether the three digits of the बर्ड हाथ शामिल the same homologous घाटा of दो digits as in the डायनासोर hand.
The human hand रै 27 bones, not including the sesamoid bones which number varies between लोगों.
14 of which हैं the phalanges ( proximal, इंटरमीडिएट और distal ) of the उंगलियाँ.
the metacarpals हैं the bones that connects the उंगलियाँ and the कलाई.
Each human hand रै 5 metacarpals and 8 carpal bones.
Too कूल was a पेशेवर wrestling tag team and पूर्व गुट most notably क्रियाशील in संसार Wrestling Federation/Entertainment between 1998 and 2001 and लिये a short समय in 2004.
मौलिक digital alarm क्लॉक without a radio.
The mark in the top-left of the प्रदर्शक indicates कि the time is 4:00pm, नहीं 4:00am.
a 1969 रेडियो सचेतक clock ( सोनी Digimatic 8FC-59W ) with an early mechanical-digital display.
a digital clock is a प्रकार of क्लॉक that प्रदर्शक the समय digitally, i.e. in numerals or अन्य प्रतीकों, as opposed to an analog clock, जहाँ the time is indicated by the स्थितियाँ of rotating hands.
डिजिटल घड़ियाँ are often संबद्ध with electronic drives, but the `` digital '' वर्णन refers only to the display, not to the drive mechanism.
( दोनो analog और digital clocks can be driven either mechanically or electronically, but `` clockwork '' mechanisms साथ digital प्रदर्शक हैं rare. )
The biggest digital clock is the lichtzeitpegel ( `` लाइट Time स्तर '' ) on the television tower rheinturm Düsseldorf, Germany.
Family Guy निर्माता सेठ MacFarlane also provides the आवाज़ें of पीटर Griffin, stewie griffin, Brian Griffin, and Glenn Quagmire.
Family Guy is an अमरीकी animated sitcom कि features पाँच main voice अभिनेताओं, and numerous regular cast and पुनरावर्ती guest stars.
the principal voice cast consists of दिखाएँ निर्माता Seth MacFarlane, एलेक्स borstein, Seth Green, mila Kunis ( जो replaced Lacey chabert after the पहला season ) और Mike Henry and अभी, the नई actor beau Osborne.
पुनरावर्ती voice अभिनेताओं include पैट्रिक Warburton, Adam West, John G. Brennan, निकोल Sullivan and Jennifer tilly, and repeat guest सितारों शामिल Phyllis diller, Charles Durning, Rush limbaugh, and Phil LaMarr.
Many डाल members provide voices लिये अनेक characters.
the voice actors, in portraying the विभिन्न अक्षर personalities on the दिखाएँ, चित्रण प्रेरणा इससे हस्तियाँ and pop संस्कृति.
परिवार Guy वर्ण have महरूम played by more than एक actor, बाद सदस्यों of the दिखाएँ left the श्रेणी or had conflicting दायित्वों.
kunis थी nominated for an Annie पुरस्कार for voicing Meg Griffin in the ऋतु 5 episode `` Barely Legal `` और macfarlane has also won an एमी Award लिये Outstanding voice-over Performance और an Annie पुरस्कार for Best आवाज़ Acting in an एनिमेटेड Television Production, though no other cast member रै won an पुरस्कार लिये उनके work on the series.
the पाँच sets of the फलक खेल Monopoly depicted यहाँ show the एवोल्यूशन of the खेल 's artwork और designs in the संयुक्त States इससे 1935–2005.
The history of the board game Monopoly can be traced back to the early 20th century.
The earliest known design was by the अमरीकी, Elizabeth Magie, patented in 1904 but मौजूदा as जल्दी as 1902.
Magie 's original intent थी to publish a board game to illustrate an economic principle, namely the Georgist अवधारणा of a single जमीन मान tax.
A series of फलक खेल were developed from 1906 through the 1930s कि शामिल the buying और selling of land and the विकास of that land.
by 1934, a board game had been created much like the संस्करण of Monopoly sold by Parker भाइयो and इसके सम्बन्धित companies through the rest of the 20th century, and into the 21st.
Several people, mostly in the Midwestern United States and near the East Coast, contributed to the game 's design और evolution.
By the 1970s, the idea that the खेल had been created solely by चार्ल्स Darrow had become popular लोकगीत ; it was मुद्रित in the खेल 's निर्देश for अनेक years, in a 1974 किताब devoted to Monopoly, and was cited in a सामान्य book परिचय toys even as recently as 2007.
भी a guide to family games प्रकाशित लिये रीडर 's Digest in 2003 only gave credit to darrow और एलिज़ाबेथ Magie, erroneously stating कि magie 's असली game was created in the 1800s, और नहीं acknowledging any of the खेल 's विकास between Magie 's creation of the game, and the eventual publication by पार्कर Brothers.
Also in the 1970s, Professor Ralph Anspach, who था खुद published a फलक game intended to illustrate the principles of दोनो monopolies और विश्वास busting, fought Parker Brothers और its then जनक company, General Mills, over the trademarks of the Monopoly board खेल.
Through the research of Anspach और अन्य, much of the जल्दी इतिहास of the game was `` rediscovered ''.
anspach confronted maxine Brady, author of the 1974 book the Monopoly Book : Strategy और Tactics of the World 's सबसे लोकप्रिय Game over the actual इतिहास of the game on Barry Farber 's नई यॉर्क नगर talk show in 1975.
Because of the lengthy court process, including appeals, the विधिक status of पार्कर भाइयो ' trademarks on the खेल was नहीं settled जबतक 1985.
the game 's name remains a पंजीकृत trademark of पार्कर Brothers, as do इसके specific design तत्व.
At the conclusion of the court मामला, the खेल 's logo and graphic design तत्व became part of a larger Monopoly brand, licensed by पार्कर भाइयो ' parent कंपनियाँ onto a किस्में of वस्तुएं through the उपस्थित day.
Despite the `` rediscovery '' of the board खेल 's early history in the 1970s और 1980s, and अनेक किताबे और journal articles on the subject, हास्ब्रो ( पार्कर भाइयो ' वर्तमान parent company ) किया not acknowledge any of the खेल 's history before चार्ल्स Darrow on its official एकाधिकार website as recently as June 2012.
Nor did हास्ब्रो acknowledge anyone other than Darrow in सामग्री published or प्रायोजित by them, at तनिक as recently as 2006.
अंतरराष्ट्रीय tournaments, पहला आयोजित in the जल्दी 1970s, continue to the present, with the अगला संसार चैंपियनशिप संभावित scheduled for 2013.
Starting in 1985, a new generation of spin-off board games and कार्ड games appeared on दोनो sides of the Atlantic समंदर.
In 1989, the first of अनेक वीडियो खेल और कंप्यूटर खेल संस्करण थी प्रकाशित.
चूंकि 1994, many official विसंगतियाँ of the game, based on स्थितियाँ other than Atlantic City, New जर्सी ( the आधिकारिक u.S. setting ) or London ( the official Commonwealth सेटिंग, excepting Canada ), have been published by हास्ब्रो or its licensees.
in 2008, Hasbro permanently बदला the color scheme and some of the gameplay of the standard u.s. Edition of the खेल to मैच the uk Edition, although the U.S. मानक edition maintains the Atlantic नगर प्रॉपर्टी names.
हास्ब्रो भी परिवर्धित the official लोगो to दे the `` mr. Monopoly '' character a 3-D computer-generated dekh, जिससे रै since been adopted by licensees usaopoly, जीतना Moves and जीतना Solutions.
और हास्ब्रो रै भी been including the Speed Die, introduced in 2006 's एकाधिकार : the Mega संस्करण by Winning Moves खेल, in संस्करण produced सीधे by Hasbro ( such as the 2009 चैंपियनशिप Edition ).
in baseball, a बलिदान fly is a batted बॉल that satisfies चार criteria:
There are fewer than two outs when the बॉल is hit.
the बॉल is hit to the outfield ( fair or foul ), or to infield बेईमानी territory.
the बैटर is put out because an outfielder ( or an infielder कार्यशील in the outfield, or foul territory ) catches the बॉल on the मक्खी ( alternatively if the बैटर would have महरूम आउट if not लिये an गलती or if the outfielder drops the ball and another धावक is put out ).
a runner who is already on base scores on the खेल.
It is called a `` sacrifice '' मक्खी क्युकी the batter presumably intends to कारण a teammate to score a चलाएं, while sacrificing उसके अपना क्षमता to do so.
मिनेसोटा ( ) is a U.S. राज्य स्तिथ in the Midwestern United States.
मिनेसोटा थी carved out of the eastern half of the मिनेसोटा territory और admitted to the Union as the 32nd राज्य on may 11, 1858.
ज्ञात as the `` जमीन of 10,000 Lakes '', the state 's name comes from a डकोटा word for `` sky-tinted water ''.
those waters, together with forests, पार्क, and wilderness areas, offer निवासियों and tourists a किस्में of बाहरी recreational opportunities.
मिनेसोटा is the 12th most extensive और the 21st most populous of the u.S. राज्य.
Nearly 60 % of इसके residents सजीव in the Minneapolis–Saint पॉल महानगर क्षेत्रफल ( known as the `` Twin शहरों '' ), the center of transportation, कारोबार, industry, शिक्षा, government and घर to an internationally known arts जातियाँ.
The remainder of the राज्य consists of पश्चिमी prairies now दिए over to intensive agriculture ; पतझड़ी वनों in the southeast, अभी साफ, farmed and settled ; और the कम populated North वुड्स, used for mining, forestry, और मनोरंजन.
मिनेसोटा is known लिये its अपेक्षाकृत mixed सोशल और political orientations, and रै a ऊँची rate of civic participation और वोटर turnout.
Minnesota ranks among the healthiest states, और रै a highly literate population.
The विशाल बहुमत of residents हैं of Scandinavian and German descent.
The राज्य is known as a center of scandinavian अमरीकी संस्कृति.
Ethnic diversity has increased in हाल दशकों.
Substantial influxes of एशियाई, अफ़्रीकी, और लैटिन American immigrants have joined the वंशजों of European settlers and the original Native अमरीकी inhabitants.
Grants हैं non-repayable funds by एक party ( ग्रान्ट makers ), often a सरकारी विभाग, निगम, foundation or trust, to a, प्रायः ( but नहीं always ) a nonprofit एंटिटी, educational संस्था, कारोबार or an individual.
in order to प्राप्त a grant, some form of `` ग्रान्ट लिखने '' प्रायः referred to as either a प्रस्ताव or an application is usually जरूरी.
सबसे grants हैं बना to fund a विशिष्ट प्रोजेक्ट and require कुछ स्तर of compliance and reporting.
the grant writing process involves an applicant submitting a प्रस्ताव ( or सबमिशन ) to a potential funder, either on the applicant 's own पहल or in response to a Request for प्रस्ताव इससे the funder.
Other अनुदान can be given to individuals, such as पीड़ितों of प्राकृतिक आपदाओं or individuals who तलाश to खोलें a small business.
Sometimes ग्रान्ट makers आवश्यकता grant seekers to have some रूप of tax-exempt status, be a registered nonprofit organization or a local सरकारी.
For example, tiered funding लिये a freeway are बहुत विशाल grants negotiated at government policy level.
However छोटी अनुदान may be provided by a सरकारी एजेंसी ( e.g. municipal government ).
Project-related funding involving governments, कारोबार, समुदायों, और individuals is प्रायः arranged by अनुप्रयोग either in writing or ऑनलाइन.
Naturally occurring कोबाल्ट ( co ) is composed of 1 stable isotope, 59Co. 28 radioisotopes have been characterized with the most stable being 60co with a half-life of 5.2714 years, 57co साथ a half-life of 271.79 दिनों, 56co with a half-life of 77.27 days, and 58Co with a half-life of 70.86 days.
All of the remaining रेडियोसक्रिय isotopes have half-lives कि are कम than 18 घंटों and the majority of ये have half-lives that are कम than 1 second.
This तत्व भी रै 11 मेटा states, all of which have half-lives कम than 15 minutes.
the isotopes of cobalt range in परमाणु वज़न from 47co to 75Co.
The primary decay विधि लिये isotopes with atomic mass unit मान less than कि of the सबसे abundant stable समस्थानिक, 59Co, is electron कैप्चर और the प्राथमिक mode of decay लिये those of वृहद than 59 परमाणु द्रव्यमान units is beta decay.
the प्राथमिक क्षय उत्पाद before 59Co are iron isotopes and the primary products बाद हैं nickel isotopes.
मानक atomic द्रव्यमान : 58.933195 ( 5 ) u
Who Moved My चीज ?
an अद्भुत Way to Deal with बदलें in अपना Work and in Your Life, published in 1998, is a प्रेरक किताब by स्पेंसर जॉनसन लिखा in the style of a मिसाल or कारोबार fable.
It describes change in एक 's work और life, और four ठेठ प्रतिक्रियाएँ to कहा change by two mice and दो `` littlepeople '', during उनके hunt for cheese.
A New यॉर्क टाइम्स business bestseller चूंकि रिलीज, Who Moved my Cheese ?
remained on the list for लगभग पाँच सालो and spent over 200 weeks on प्रकाशक Weekly 's सजिल्द nonfiction list.
it has sold अधिक than 26 लाख नक़ल worldwide in 37 languages and remains to be एक of the best-selling business books.
Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev ( – सितंबर 11, 1971 ) led the Soviet संघ during part of the Cold युद्ध.
He परोसा as First Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet संघ इससे 1953 to 1964, and as Chairman of the Council of Ministers, or Premier, इससे 1958 to 1964.
Khrushchev was responsible for the partial de-Stalinization of the सोवियत संघ, लिये backing the प्रगति of the early Soviet space कार्यक्रम, और for अनेक relatively liberal reforms in क्षेत्रों of घरेलू policy.
khrushchev 's party सहयोगियों removed him from power in 1964, replacing उसे साथ Leonid Brezhnev as First सचिव और एलेक्सी Kosygin as Premier.
khrushchev थी born in the Russian village of Kalinovka in 1894, close to the present-day किनारा between Russia and युक्त.
He थी employed as a metalworker in his youth, and during the रूसी Civil युद्ध was a राजनैतिक commissar.
With the help of Lazar Kaganovich, he worked उसके way up the Soviet hierarchy.
He supported जोसेफ Stalin 's purges, and approved thousands of रखवाले.
In 1939, Stalin sent him to govern युक्त, और he जारी the purges there.
दौरान कया थी ज्ञात in the Soviet Union as the ग्रेट Patriotic युद्ध ( Eastern Front of World War ii ), khrushchev was again a commissar, सेवारत as an intermediary between Stalin and his सेनापतियों.
Khrushchev was present at the खूनी रक्षा of stalingrad, a fact he took ग्रेट pride in throughout his जीवन.
After the war, he returned to Ukraine पहले being recalled to Moscow as एक of स्टालिन 's close advisers.
In the शक्ति struggle triggered by Stalin 's मौत in 1953, khrushchev, after अनेक सालो, emerged victorious.
On February 25, 1956, at the 20th पार्टी कॉंग्रेस, he वितरित the `` Secret वाक, '' denouncing Stalin 's purges और ushering in a less repressive era in the Soviet संघ.
His domestic नीतियों, aimed at bettering the lives of ordinary citizens, were often ineffective, especially in the क्षेत्रफल of कृषि.
उम्मीद eventually to rely on missiles लिये national रक्षा, Khrushchev ordered major cuts in conventional शक्तियां.
despite the कटौती, khrushchev 's rule देखी the tensest सालो of the ठंडा युद्ध, culminating in the क्यूबन मिसाइल Crisis.
कुछ of khrushchev 's policies यहूद देखी as erratic, विशेषकर by his emerging विरोधियों, who चुपचाप rose in strength और deposed उसे in October 1964.
He did not suffer the deadly भाग्य of some previous losers of सोवियत power struggles, लकिन was pensioned off with an apartment in मास्को and a dacha in the countryside.
His lengthy memoirs यहूद smuggled to the वेस्ट and published in part in 1970.
khrushchev died in 1971 of दिल disease.
Upper gastrointestinal ( gi ) bleeding refers to hemorrhage in the upper gastrointestinal tract.
The anatomic cut-off for अपर GI bleeding is the ligament of treitz, which connects the चौथी portion of the duodenum to the diaphragm निकट the splenic flexure of the colon.
अपर GI bleeds हैं माना medical emergencies, and आवश्यकता प्रवेश to hospital लिये urgent निदान and प्रबन्धन.
Due to advances in medications और endoscopy, upper GI hemorrhage is अभी usually treated without सर्जरी.
संसार जनसांख्यिकी estimates इससे 1800 to 2100, based on UN 2010 projections ( red, नारंगी, green ) and us Census Bureau historical estimates ( ब्लैक ).
Actual recorded population figures are in ब्लू.
according to the highest estimate, the संसार population may वृद्धि to 16 billion by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate, it may decline to 6 billion.
The संसार जनसांख्यिकी is the total number of जीना humans on धरती.
As of आज, it is अनुमानित to number billion by the संयुक्त States जनसांख्यिकी Bureau ( USCB ).
The USCB estimates that the world population exceeded 7 billion on कूच 12, 2012.
according to a separate estimate by the United राष्ट्र जनसांख्यिकी Fund, it reached इस milestone on October 31, 2011.
the world population has experienced continuous विकास since the end of the Great Famine और the Black मौत in 1350, when it stood at around 370 million.
The highest rates of growth – global population increases above 1.8 % प्रति साल – यहूद देखी briefly दौरान the 1950s, and लिये a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s.
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, और had declined to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total सालाना births यहूद highest in the late 1980s at about 138 लाख, और हैं अभी expected to remain essentially constant at उनके 2011 स्तर of 134 million, जबकि deaths number 56 million प्रति year, and are expected to बढ़ाएँ to 80 million प्रति year by 2040.
Current projections show a continued increase in जनसांख्यिकी in the निकट भविष्य ( लकिन a स्थिर decline in the जनसांख्यिकी growth रेट ), साथ the global जनसांख्यिकी अपेक्षित to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
विभिन्न longer-term estimates predict further विकास, stagnation, or even overall decline in the global population by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population growth, citing the growing pressures on the environment, global food आपूर्तियाँ, and energy संसाधन.
फिलिप्स lumileds lighting कम्पनी is the निर्माता of a चौड़ी range of high-power/high-efficiency light-emitting diodes ( LEDs ).
It is a now a fully owned प्रभाग of Philips Lighting.
knuckle mnemonic for the क्रमांक of days in each माह of the Gregorian Calendar.
Each projecting knuckle represents a 31-day माह.
a mnemonic (, with a silent `` m '' ), or mnemonic device, is any learning तकनीक that aids information retention.
Mnemonics उद्देश्य to translate information into a form that the human brain can retain बेहतर than इसके original रूप.
Even the process of applying इस conversion might already aid the ट्रांसफ़र of सूचना to long-term memory.
commonly encountered mnemonics are प्रायः लिये lists and in auditory form, ऐसे as short poems, acronyms, or यादगार वाक्यांश, लकिन mnemonics can भी be for अन्य types of information और in विज़ुअल or kinesthetic फ़ॉर्म.
Their use is based on the अवलोकन that the इंसान दिमाग more easily remembers spatial, personal, surprising, physical, sexual, humorous, or वरना 'relatable ' information, rather than more abstract or impersonal forms of सूचना.
The शब्द mnemonic is निकला from the Ancient यूनानी word μνημονικός ( mnēmonikos ), meaning `` of मेमोरी '' and is related to Mnemosyne ( `` स्मरण '' ), the नाम of the देवी of मेमोरी in यूनानी mythology.
दोनो of these शब्द हैं निकला from μνήμη ( mnēmē ), `` स्मरण, मेमोरी ''.
Mnemonics in antiquity were सबसे often considered in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of what is आज ज्ञात as the आर्ट of memory.
Ancient Greeks और Romans distinguished between two types of memory : the 'natural ' memory and the 'artificial ' मेमोरी.
The former is inborn, और is the one that everyone uses automatically and without thinking.
The कृत्रिम मेमोरी in contrast has to be प्रशिक्षित and developed through the सीखना और practicing of a variety of mnemonic techniques.
Mnemonic प्रणालियों are special techniques or strategies consciously प्रयुक्त to improve memory, it helps employ सूचना already भंडारित in long-term memory to मेक memorization an easier task.
President बुश signing the No Child Left पीछे Act at Hamilton h.s. in हैमिल्टन, Ohio.
the no चाइल्ड बाएँ पीछे अधिनियम of 2001 ( nclb ) is a United राज्य अधिनियम of कॉंग्रेस कि is a reauthorization of the Elementary and द्वितीयक शिक्षा Act, which शामिल शीर्षक i, the government 's flagship aid कार्यक्रम लिये सुविधाहीन विद्यार्थी.
nclb supports standards-based education सुधार based on the premise that setting high standards and establishing measurable लक्ष्य can improve व्यक्तिगत outcomes in शिक्षा.
The Act requires states to develop आकलन in basic skills.
राज्य जरूर give these assessments to all students at चुनें ग्रेड levels in order to प्राप्त संघीय स्कूल funding.
The Act does not assert a नेशनल उपलब्धि standard ; standards are set by each individual state.
NCLB विस्तारित the संघीय भूमिका in public education through सालाना testing, annual अकादमिक progress, रपट cards, टीचर योग्यता, और funding परिवर्तन.
the bill passed in the U.S. कॉंग्रेस with bipartisan support.
चकमा B Series utility circa 1950, चलित by Albert namatjira
a पिकअप truck or pick-up, प्रायः बस referred to as a pickup, is a light motor गाडी with an open-top, rear कार्गो क्षेत्रफल ( bed ).
in North अमेरिका, the पद पिकअप is प्रयुक्त लिये लाइट ट्रक with a lighter duty chassis और फैक्टरी निर्मित, integrated bed, as well as for coupé utility वाहनों, प्रायः आधारित on a personal car chassis, लकिन also often on a special dedicated chassi लिये such उपयोग.
Some देशों have उनके अपना शर्तें समान to pickup, ऐसे as ute in Australia and New Zealand, or bakkie in South अफ़्रीकी.
Large पिकअप trucks are somewhat विरल in यूरोपीय, जहाँ vans and light lorries are commonly प्रयुक्त लिये similar भूमिकाएँ.
This 15th-century depiction of Charlemagne and Pope Adrian i shows a well-bred medieval horse with arched neck, परिष्कृत सिर and elegant gait.
Horses in the मध्य आयु differed in size, निर्माण and breed from the आधुनिक horse, and यहूद, on औसत, smaller.
They यहूद also more central to समाज than उनके आधुनिक counterparts, being अनिवार्य for war, कृषि, और transport.
नतीजतन, specific types of horse विकसित, many of which have no आधुनिक equivalent.
While an understanding of modern घोड़ा breeds और equestrianism is vital for any analysis of the medieval घोड़ा, researchers also need to consider documentary ( दोनो लिखा और सचित्र ) और पुरातत्व प्रमाण.
Horses in the Middle आयु were rarely differentiated by नस्ल, but rather by उपयोग.
This led उन्हें to be described, for उदाहरण, as `` chargers `` ( युद्ध horses ), `` palfreys `` ( riding horses ), cart horses or packhorses.
सन्दर्भ is also दिए to their place of origin, such as `` Spanish घोड़े, '' लकिन whether this referred to one नस्ल or several is unknown.
another परेशानी arising दौरान कोई study of मध्यकालीन दस्तावेज़ or साहित्य is the लचीलापन of the medieval भाषाएं, where अनेक words can be used for one thing ( or, conversely, several वस्तुएँ are referred to by एक word ).
शब्द such as ' courser ' और 'चार्जr ' are used interchangeably ( even within एक document ), and where one एपिक may speak disparagingly of a rouncey, another गुणगान its skill and swiftness.
Significant technological advances in equestrian equipment, often introduced इससे अन्य cultures, allowed for significant changes in both warfare और agriculture.
in particular, improved designs for the solid-treed काठी as well as the arrival of the stirrup, horseshoe और horse collar were significant advances in medieval society.
Consequently, the assumptions और theories developed by इतिहासकारों are not definitive, and बहस still rages on अनेक issues, ऐसे as the breeding or size of the horse, और a क्रमांक of sources जरूर be consulted in अनुक्रम to understand the विशालता of the subject.
the म्यूज़िक Man is a musical साथ book, music, और गीत by Meredith Willson, based on a story by willson and Franklin लेसी.
the plot चिंताएं कॉन man Harold हिल, जो poses as a boys ' बैंड organizer और leader and sells बैंड instruments और वर्दी to naive townsfolk पहले skipping कस्बा with the cash.
In River नगर, आयोवा, prim librarian and piano teacher Marian Paroo sees through उसे, but जब हिल helps उसके younger bhai overcome his fear of social interactions due to उसके लिस्प, marian begins to fall in प्रेम with हेरोल्ड.
Harold, in turn falling for Marian, risks होने caught to win her.
in 1957, the show became a hit on ब्रॉडवे, winning five Tony Awards, सहित Best Musical, and running लिये 1,375 performances.
the cast एल्बम won the पहला Grammy Award for `` Best Original Cast Album '' and was number एक on the Billboard charts लिये 245 weeks.
The दिखाएँ 's success led to revivals and a लोकप्रिय 1962 film अनुकूलन and a 2003 television remake.
It frequently is produced by both professional and amateur theater कंपनियाँ.
Surveyor 's wheel
a surveyor 's व्हील, भी called a clickwheel, hodometer, waywiser, trundle wheel, measuring व्हील, or perambulator is a यंत्र for measuring अलहदा.
largest non-polar deserts
बालू dunes in the rub ' al Khali ( `` Empty क्वार्टर '' ) of Saudi Arabia.
makhtesh रेमन, Negev मरुस्थल, इसराईल
a मरुस्थल is a landscape or region of land कि is बहुत dry because of low वर्षा amounts ( वर्षण ), प्रायः has little coverage by पौधे, and in जिससे streams शुष्क up unless they हैं supplied by water from बाहर areas.
Deserts can भी be described as क्षेत्रों where more जल is lost by evapotranspiration than falls as precipitation.
Desert पौधे जरूर have खास adaptations to survive with इस little जल.
Deserts generally प्राप्त कम than 25 cm of बरसात ( precipitation ) each year.
Semideserts or steppes are regions जिससे receive between और.
In the Köppen जलवायु classification system, deserts are classed as BWh ( hot desert ) or bwk ( शीतोष्ण desert ).
in the thornthwaite climate वर्गीकरण system, deserts would be classified as arid megathermal climates.
World युद्ध I ( WWI ) was a वैश्विक युद्ध केंद्रित in यूरोपीय that began on 28 जुलाई 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
it थी predominantly पुकारा the संसार युद्ध or the Great War from इसके occurrence until the start of संसार युद्ध ii in 1939, and the पहला संसार युद्ध or World युद्ध i thereafter.
It शामिल सब the world 's great powers, जिससे were assembled in two opposing alliances : the allies ( based on the ट्रिपल entente of the United किंगडम, France और Russia ) and the सेंट्रल Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary और Italy ; but, as austria–hungary had लिया the अप्रिय against the agreement, Italy did not डालें into the war ).
These alliances यहूद both reorganised and expanded as more nations डाला the war : Italy, Japan and the United States joined the allies, and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central शक्तियां.
Ultimately, अधिक than 70 लाख military personnel, सहित 60 million Europeans, were mobilised in एक of the largest wars in इतिहास.
More than 9 million combatants यहूद मारे, largely because of technological advancements that led to विशाल increases in the lethality of weapons without सम्बन्धित सुधार in protection or mobility.
It थी the fifth- deadliest conflict in world इतिहास, subsequently paving the way लिये various political changes, such as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term कल्याणकारी of the युद्ध was the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign नीतियों of the ग्रेट शक्तियां of Europe.
More तत्काल, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, the वारिस to the throne of austria-hungary, on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo Princip in साराजेवो triggered a diplomatic crisis जब austria-hungary subsequently वितरित an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the पिछला decades were invoked.
भीतर weeks, the प्रमुख शक्तियां were at war and, via their colonies, the conflict soon spread around the संसार.
On 28 जुलाई, the Austro-Hungarians fired the पहला गोलियाँ of the war as तैयारी लिये the invasion of सर्बिया.
जबकि the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral बेल्जियम and ध्वज on the way to France, providing a casus belli for ब्रिटेन 's declaration of युद्ध against जर्मनी.
बाद the German कूच on पेरिस was brought to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the marne —the Western Front settled into a स्थिर battle of अपघर्षण with a गर्त line that बदला little until 1917.
On the पूर्वी Front, the रूसी army was कामयाब against the Austro-Hungarians, लकिन थी stopped in its invasion of ईस्ट prussia by the germans.
in November the उस्मानी साम्राज्य joined the war, opening up fronts in the काकेशस, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy और बुल्गारिया went to युद्ध in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
in Russia, the tsar 's सरकारी collapsed in कूच 1917 और a subsequent क्रान्ति in November brought the russians to terms with the सेंट्रल Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive along the western सामने, the allies drove back the germans in a series of कामयाब offensives और अमरीकी forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, जिससे था its own trouble with revolutionaries, agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
the war ended in विजय for the Allies.
कार्यक्रम on the home fronts were as उग्र as on the बैटल fronts, as the भागीदार tried to mobilize उनके जनशक्ति और आर्थिक संसाधन to लड़ो a कुल war.
By the समाप्त of the war, four प्रमुख इम्पीरियल powers—the जर्मनी, Russian, austro-hungarian and उस्मानी empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the former दो lost a great amount of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central यूरोपीय was redrawn into several smaller राज्य.
the लीग of राष्ट्र was formed in the आशा of preventing another such conflict.
the यूरोपीय nationalism शाखित by the युद्ध and the ब्रेकअप of empires, the परखना of Germany 's शिकस्त and समस्याएं with the Treaty of Versailles are सहमत to be factors contributing to World युद्ध II.
`` लड़कियों बस Want to Have Fun '' is a 1979 सोंग originally written by रॉबर्ट Hazard and बना famous by सिंगर Cyndi Lauper.
it थी the पहला प्रमुख सिंगल released by Lauper as a सोलो artist और the lead-off सिंगल from her डेब्यू एल्बम She 's So Unusual.
Lauper’s संस्करण gained recognition as a feminist गान और promoted by an award-winning video.
It has महरूम covered on either an album or in सजीव कॉन्सर्ट by over 30 other कलाकारों.
the single थी lauper 's breakthrough hit, reaching # 2 on the Billboard Hot 100 और becoming a worldwide hit throughout late 1983 और जल्दी 1984.
it remains एक of lauper 's signature songs and was a widely लोकप्रिय song दौरान the era of its release, the 1980s.
The `` Rolling Stone & एमटीवी : '100 Greatest Pop गीतों ' : 1-50 '', `` रोलिंग Stone : `` The 100 Top म्यूज़िक Videos '' '' और the `` vh1 : 100 महानतम Videos '' सूचियाँ क्रमित the song at # 22, # 39 and # 45, क्रमशः.
The song received a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार नामांकन for Record of the साल and बेहतरीन Female Pop गायन प्रदर्शन.
View of defibrillator एलेक्ट्रोड position और placement.
Defibrillation is a common उपचार लिये life-threatening cardiac dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, and pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic खुराक of electrical उर्जा to the प्रभावित दिल साथ a device पुकारा a defibrillator.
इस depolarizes a critical mass of the दिल muscle, terminates the dysrhythmia, and allows normal sinus rhythm to be reestablished by the देह 's natural pacemaker, in the sinoatrial node of the दिल.
Defibrillators can be external, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the प्रकार of यंत्र प्रयुक्त or needed.
Some external units, ज्ञात as automated external defibrillators ( AEDs ), automate the diagnosis of treatable rhythms, meaning कि lay responders or bystanders हैं समर्थ to use उन्हें सफलतापूर्वक with little, or in कुछ मामले no training at सब.
The Cato Institute is an अमरीकी libertarian think tank headquartered in वॉशिंगटन, d.c.
it थी founded as the Charles Koch Foundation in 1974 by Murray Rothbard, ed Crane and चार्ल्स koch, chairman of the फलक और मुख्य कार्यपालिका officer of the संगुटिका Koch Industries, inc..
in जुलाई 1976, the name was changed to the Cato संस्थान.
According to the 2011 Global Go To Think Tank Index, Cato is the 6th most influential us आधारित think tank, रैंकिंग 3rd in आर्थिक नीति and 2nd in Social Policy.
the Institute 's stated मिशन is `` to बढ़ाएँ the understanding of public policies based on the principles of limited सरकारी, free markets, व्यक्तिगत स्वतंत्रता, and peace.
the Institute will use the सबसे effective means to originate, advocate, promote, and disseminate applicable policy प्रस्ताव कि बनाएँ free, खोलें, and civil समाजों in the United States और throughout the संसार. ''
केटो विद्वानों were critical of George W. बुश 's Republican administration ( 2001–2009 ) on several मुद्दे, including the Iraq युद्ध, civil liberties, education, agriculture, energy नीति, and excessive government बिता.
on other मुद्दे, वे supported Bush administration initiatives, most notably health care, सोशल Security, वैश्विक warming, tax policy, and immigration.
During the 2008 u.S. अध्यक्षीय election, Cato विद्वानों criticized both major-party उम्मीदवार, John McCain and बराक ओबामा.
Cato रै criticized President Obama 's stances on policy issues since his उद्घाटन, such as फिस्कल stimulus, healthcare reform, विदेशी नीति, and the War on Drugs, while supporting his stance on the repeal of Do n't Ask, do n't बताना and liberal immigration policy.
ड्रैकुला is an 1897 गोथिक हॉरर अनोखा by Irish लेखक Bram स्टोकर.
प्रसिद्ध for introducing the अक्षर of the vampire Count Dracula, the novel tells the story of ड्रैकुला 's attempt to relocate from Transylvania to England, और the बैटल between Dracula और a छोटी समूह of men and women led by Professor Abraham वैन helsing.
ड्रैकुला has been आबंटित to अनेक literary genres including पिशाच literature, हॉरर fiction, the गोथिक novel और invasion literature.
the novel छू on विषयवस्तु such as the role of women in Victorian culture, sexual प्रथाओं, आव्रजन, colonialism, और post-colonialism.
हालांकि Stoker did not इफ़तेरा the पिशाच, he पारिभाषित इसके modern रूप, and the अनोखा has शाखित numerous theatrical, फिल्मी और टेलीविज़न interpretations.
Quidditch is a competitive खेल in the wizarding संसार of the Harry Potter ब्रह्मांड, और is इससे the श्रेणी of children 's novels and movies.
It is an extremely अशिष्ट लकिन very लोकप्रिय semi-contact sport, played by wizards और witches.
Matches are निभाई between दो teams of seven खिलाड़ी riding उड़ती broomsticks, using चार balls and six elevated ring-shaped goals, three on each पक्ष of the Quidditch pitch ( field ).
in the Harry कुम्हार universe, Quidditch holds a fervent following समान to the स्थिति कि संघ फ़ुटबॉल holds as a globally popular खेल.
The sport is monumental throughout the wizarding संसार.
हैरी plays an important स्थिति लिये his हाउस टोली at हॉग्वार्ट्स : he is the seeker and becomes the कप्तान in his sixth year there.
Regional and international प्रतियोगिताओं are उल्लेखित throughout the series.
In Goblet of आग, Quidditch at Hogwarts is रद्द लिये the tri-wizard Tournament, but Harry और the weasleys attend the Quidditch World कप.
In जोड, Harry uses his Quidditch skills to capture a सुनहरी अंडा इससे a dragon पुकारा the हंगेरियाई horntail ( in the first task of the Tri-Wizard टूर्नामेंट ), to capture a flying key in पारस 's स्टोन, और on दो key अवसरों in deathly hallows — getting hold of Ravenclaw 's diadem, and during the final fight साथ Voldemort — the `` unerring कौशल of the seeker '' is उपयोगी to him in snatching the Elder Wand आउट of the air.
हैरी Potter has owned दो broomsticks, the Nimbus 2000 और the Firebolt, दोनो of जिससे are नष्ट by the श्रेणी ' end.
The खेल रै महरूम अपनाया in the real world in the form of Muggle quidditch.
the United राज्य Congress is the bicameral विधानमंडल of the संघीय सरकारी of the संयुक्त States consisting of two घरों : the निम्नतर हाउस known as the House of Representatives and the upper हाउस known as the Senate.
Congress meets in the Capitol in Washington, D.C.
दोनो प्रतिनिधि और सीनेटरों हैं chosen through सीधा election.
Congress has a कुल of 535 मतदान members : 435 सदस्यों in the House of प्रतिनिधि and 100 members in the सीनेट.
Members of the House of प्रतिनिधि serve two-year terms representing the people of a ज़िला.
congressional districts are apportioned to राज्य by population using the United States Census results, प्रत्येक राज्य in the union having at तनिक one representative in the House of Representatives.
regardless of population, each of the 50 राज्य has दो सीनेटरों ; the 100 सीनेटरों प्रत्येक serve a six-year term.
the terms हैं staggered so every दो सालो approximately one-third of the सीनेट is up for चुनाव.
Each staggered समूह of one-third of the senators हैं called 'classes '.
No state of the United राज्य has two senators from the वही class.
Most incumbents seek re-election, and their historical likelihood of winning subsequent elections exceeds 90 percent.
in August 2012, a gallup पोल reported that congress’s स्वीकृति दरजा amongst Americans थी at 10 %, matching a 38-year कम reached in November 2011.
`` a छोटी अधिक देश than कि '' is the title of a song written by जॉय + Rory 's रोरी ली Feek, व्यान varble, and Don Poythress, and अंकित by अमरीकी देश कलाकार Easton कोर्बिन.
it was released in August 2009 as कोर्बिन 's debut single and is included on उसके self-titled debut एल्बम.
In अप्रैल 2010, the song पहुँचे Number One on the देश म्यूज़िक charts, making कोर्बिन the first पुरूष solo artist in seven सालो to भेजें a डेब्यू सिंगल to Number One.
It has been certified सुनहरा by the RIAA.
the ब्लैकबेरी is a line of wireless handheld devices and सेवाएं designed और marketed by Research in Motion Limited ( रिम ) ऑपरेटिंग as ब्लैकबेरी.
the first BlackBerry device, an ईमेल pager, was released in 1999 ; the most recent BlackBerry devices, the Z10 और Q10, यहूद announced on January 30, 2013.
The user इंटरफ़ेस varies by मॉडल ; most feature a physical QWERTY कुंजीपटल, while newer generations have relied on a multi-touch screen और virtual keyboard.
A ब्लैकबेरी can shoot video, take फ़ोटो, play music, and perform online functions such as web-browsing और emailing.
वे can भी send and प्राप्त धक्का ईमेल and instant संदेश जबकि maintaining a high स्तर of सुरक्षा through on-device संदेश encryption, and are designed to फलन as निजी digital assistants.
BlackBerry डिवाइस support a large किस्में of तत्काल messaging features, with the सबसे popular being the proprietary ब्लैकबेरी मेसेंजर service.
The ब्लैकबेरी playbook is a tablet computer offered by the कम्पनी.
the 100 millionth ब्लैकबेरी smartphone थी shipped in June quarter of 2010 और the 200 millionth smartphone was shipped in सितंबर quarter of 2012.
BlackBerry खाते for 3 % of mobile device बिक्री worldwide in 2011, making इसके निर्माता the sixth most popular device मेकर ( 25 % of mobile यंत्र sales are smartphones ).
The उपभोक्ता BlackBerry अंतरजाल Service is उपलब्धियाँ in 91 countries worldwide on over 500 mobile सेवा operators using various mobile technologies.
as of September 2012, वहीँ यहूद अस्सी million सदस्य विश्वव्यापी to BlackBerry.
In 2011 the caribbean and Latin America था the highest penetrations of BlackBerry smartphones विश्वव्यापी, with up to about 45 per cent in the प्रदेश having a रिम यंत्र.
ब्लैकबेरी, iPhone, एंड्रॉइड, and Windows Phone हैं माना the चार major smartphone brands.
BlackBerry is widely referred to as `` crackberry '' in the संयुक्त States, which alludes to its excessive use by its owners and is a reference to the addictiveness of क्रैक कोका.
उपयोग of the पद crackberry became so widespread कि in November 2006 वेबस्टर 's New World College Dictionary नामित `` crackberry '' the `` नई शब्द of the साल. ''
an example of a माँग वक्र shifting.
the shift इससे d1 To d2 means an increase in माँग with consequences for the other परिवर्तनीय
in economics, the demand वक्र is the graph depicting the relationship between the price of a certain commodity and the amount of it कि consumers are willing और समर्थ to खरीदें at कि दिए दाम.
It is a ग्राफिक representation of a demand schedule.
the माँग curve लिये all consumers together follows इससे the demand curve of प्रत्येक individual उपभोक्ता : the individual मांगे at each दाम are added together.
Demand वक्र are प्रयुक्त to estimate behaviors in प्रतिस्पर्धी markets, और are प्रायः combined साथ supply curves to estimate the संतुलन price ( the price at जिससे विक्रेता together are willing to बेचें the same राशि as खरीदार together are willing to buy, भी known as market clearing दाम ) and the संतुलन quantity ( the amount of that good or service that होगा be उत्पादित और खरीदा without surplus/excess supply or shortage/excess demand ) of कि मार्केट.
in a monopolistic market, the माँग वक्र facing the monopolist is simply the market demand curve.
historia
by nikolaos gysis ( 1892 )
History ( from यूनानी - historia, meaning `` inquiry, knowledge acquired by investigation '' ) is an umbrella पद that relates to पास्ट events as खूब as the डिस्कवरी, collection, संगठन, और presentation of information परिचय these events.
The term includes cosmic, geologic, और सशुल्क history, लकिन is often generically implied to औसत इंसान इतिहास.
Scholars who write about इतिहास हैं called इतिहासकारों.
History can भी refer to the अकादमिक discipline जिससे uses a narrative to examine और analyse a sequence of past events, and objectively determine the पैटर्न of cause और effect that determine उन्हें.
इतिहासकारों sometimes बहस the प्रकृति of history and इसके usefulness by discussing the study of the अनुशासन as an समाप्त in itself and as a way of providing `` perspective '' on the problems of the present.
Stories आम to a particular संस्कृति, but नहीं supported by बाह्य स्त्रोत ( ऐसे as the tales surrounding किंग Arthur ) हैं usually classified as सांस्कृतिक heritage or legends, because they do नहीं support the `` disinterested investigation '' required of the discipline of इतिहास.
Events occurring prior to written record हैं माना प्रागितिहास.
Herodotus, a 5th century b.c. Greek इतिहासकार is considered within the Western परंपरा to be the `` father of history '', और, साथ with उसके समकालीन Thucydides, helped रूप the मूलाधार लिये the modern study of इंसान इतिहास.
उनके कार्य continues to be read आज and the divide between the culture-focused Herodotus और the military-focused thucydides remains a point of contention or approach in modern ऐतिहासिक writing.
In the Eastern tradition, a state chronicle the Spring and Autumn annals was ज्ञात to be compiled from as जल्दी as 722 bce हालांकि only 2nd सदी bce texts बच.
Ancient प्रभाव have helped spawn variant interpretations of the प्रकृति of इतिहास which have विकसित over the centuries and continue to बदलें today.
the आधुनिक पढ़ाई of history is wide-ranging, and includes the पढ़ाई of विशिष्ट regions and the पढ़ाई of certain topical or thematical elements of historical investigation.
प्रायः history is taught as part of primary and secondary education, और the academic study of इतिहास is a प्रमुख discipline in विश्वविद्यालयों studies.
Malcolm x ( ; May 19, 1925February 21, 1965 ), born Malcolm Little और भी known as el-hajj Malik El-Shabazz ( ), was an African-American Muslim minister and इंसान अधिकारों activist.
To उसके admirers, he was a साहसी advocate for the अधिकारों of अश्वेतों, a man who indicted श्वेत अमेरिका in the harshest terms for its crimes विरूद्ध ब्लैक अमेरिकी.
detractors accused उसे of preaching racism, ब्लैक supremacy, and violence.
He has been पुकारा one of the greatest and most influential अफ़्रीकी Americans in history.
Malcolm x 's पिता died—killed by श्वेत supremacists, it was rumored—when he थी यंग, and at least एक of his uncles was lynched.
When he was 13, उसके mother थी लगाई in a दिमागी hospital, और he थी placed in a series of foster homes.
In 1946, at age 20, he went to prison लिये तोड़कर and प्रवेश.
In थाना, मैल्कम x became a member of the स्वदेश of Islam ; after his parole in 1952, he quickly रोज़ to become one of इसके नेताओ.
लिये a दर्जन years, Malcolm X was the पब्लिक फेस of the विवादास्पद group, लकिन disillusionment साथ Nation of islam सिर इलियास Muhammad led him to leave the Nation in March 1964.
After a period of travel in अफ़्रीकी और the Middle ईस्ट, he returned to the संयुक्त राज्य, जहाँ he founded Muslim Mosque, inc. और the Organization of afro-american Unity.
In February 1965, less than a year बाद leaving the Nation of Islam, he थी assassinated by three सदस्यों of the group.
Malcolm X 's expressed beliefs changed substantially over समय.
As a spokesman for the स्वदेश of Islam he सिखाया black supremacy और advocated विरह of black और white Americans —in contrast to the civil अधिकारों movement 's जोर on संयोजन.
After breaking with the स्वदेश of islam in 1964—saying of उसके association with it, `` i did अनेक things as a [ Black ] Muslim that i 'm sorry for now.
I was a zombie then... pointed in a certain दिशा और बताई to कूच '' —and becoming a सुन्नी मुस्लिम, he disavowed जातिवाद और expressed willingness to work साथ civil rights नेताओ, he continued to emphasize Pan-Africanism, black self-determination, and self-defense.
हेनरी Merritt `` हांक '' Paulson, Jr. ( born March 28, 1946 ) is an अमरीकी बैंकर जो served as the 74th United States Secretary of the Treasury.
He था served as the अध्यक्ष और Chief Executive अधिकारी of Goldman Sachs, and is now अध्यक्ष of the Paulson Institute, जिससे he संस्थापित in 2011 to promote चिरस्थायी economic growth and a क्लीनर environment around the संसार, with an आरंभिक focus on the संयुक्त राज्य and चीन.
a virtual machine ( VM ) is a तन्त्र implemented abstraction of the underlying हार्डवेयर, जिससे is प्रस्तुत to the अनुप्रयोग परत of the system.
Virtual machines may be आधारित on विशेषताएँ of a काल्पनिक computer or emulate the कंप्यूटर architecture and functions of a real संसार computer.
Spiders ( अनुक्रम Araneae ) हैं air-breathing arthropods that have आठ टाँगे and chelicerae with fangs that inject venom.
They हैं the largest अनुक्रम of arachnids and rank seventh in total प्रजाति diversity among सब other समूह of organisms.
Spiders हैं मिला विश्वव्यापी on every महाद्वीप मगर for Antarctica, and have become established in nearly every आवास with the एक्सेप्शन of air और sea colonization.
as of 2008, at तनिक 43,678 spider प्रजाति, और 109 परिवारों have महरूम अंकित by taxonomists ; however, वहीँ has been confusion within the वैज्ञानिक community as to how सब ये families चाहिए be classified, as evidenced by the over 20 अलग classifications that have महरूम proposed since 1900.
Anatomically, spiders differ from other arthropods in that the usual body खण्ड हैं fused into दो tagmata, the cephalothorax और उदर, और joined by a छोटी, cylindrical pedicel.
Unlike insects, spiders do not have antennae.
In all मगर the most primitive group, the mesothelae, spiders have the most centralized nervous systems of all arthropods, as all their ganglia are fused into एक द्रव्यमान in the cephalothorax.
नापसंद सबसे arthropods, spiders have no extensor muscles in उनके limbs और instead extend them by hydraulic pressure.
उनके abdomens bear appendages कि have महरूम modified into spinnerets that extrude silk from up to six प्रकार of silk glands भीतर उनके उदर.
Spider webs vary widely in आकार, shape और the amount of स्टिकी thread used.
It अभी appears that the spiral orb web may be एक of the earliest फ़ॉर्म, and spiders that उपज tangled cobwebs are more abundant and विविध than orb-web मकड़ियों.
Spider-like arachnids साथ silk-producing spigots appeared in the devonian period परिचय, but these animals apparently lacked spinnerets.
सच्चा spiders have महरूम found in carboniferous रॉक्स from, और हैं बहुत समान to the सबसे primitive surviving अनुक्रम, the mesothelae.
the main समूह of आधुनिक spiders, mygalomorphae and Araneomorphae, first appeared in the Triassic काल, पहले.
A herbivorous species, Bagheera kiplingi, थी described in 2008, but all अन्य known species are परभक्षी, mostly preying on insects और on other spiders, although a few विशाल प्रजाति भी लो birds and lizards.
Spiders use a wide range of रणनीति to कैप्चर शिकार : trapping it in स्टिकी webs, lassoing it with sticky bolas, mimicking the शिकार to avoid डिटेक्शन, or कार्यशील it down.
Most detect शिकार mainly by संवेदन vibrations, लकिन the active hunters have acute दृष्टि, और hunters of the genus portia दिखाएँ लक्षण of intelligence in their चुनाव of tactics and क्षमता to develop नई ones.
मकड़ियों ' गुस्ताखी हैं too narrow to लो solids, और वे liquidize their food by बाढ़ it with digestive एंजाइमों and grinding it साथ the bases of उनके pedipalps, as they do not have true jaws.
पुरूष spiders पहचानो themselves by a variety of जटिल courtship rituals to avoid being खाया by the females.
Males of सबसे species survive a few matings, सीमित मुख्यतः by their छोटी जीवन spans.
Females weave रेशा egg-cases, प्रत्येक of which may contain hundreds of अंडे.
महिलाओं of अनेक प्रजाति परवाह लिये their यंग, for example by carrying them around or by sharing food with उन्हें.
A अल्पसंख्यक of प्रजाति are social, building communal webs that may house anywhere इससे a few to 50,000 individuals.
सोशल behavior ranges इससे precarious toleration, as in the विधवा spiders, to co-operative शिकार and food-sharing.
हालांकि most spiders सजीव for at सबसे दो सालो, tarantulas and अन्य mygalomorph मकड़ियों can सजीव up to 25 years in captivity.
While the venom of a few प्रजाति is खतरनाक to humans, scientists हैं now researching the उपयोग of spider venom in medicine और as non-polluting pesticides.
Spider silk provides a संयोजन of lightness, strength और लोच that is superior to कि of सिंथेटिक सामग्री, और मकड़ी रेशा जीनों have महरूम inserted into mammals and plants to see if ये can be used as रेशा कारखानों.
As a परिणाम of their wide दायरा of behaviors, मकड़ियों have become common प्रतीकों in art और mythology symbolizing various combinations of patience, cruelty and creative शक्तियां.
Donna Marie Pinciotti ( born February 13, 1960 ) is a fictional अक्षर and एक of the दो मादा लीड in the Fox sitcom That '70s दिखाएँ, appearing in all आठ seasons.
portrayed by लौरा prepon, डोना is the love ब्याज to eric Forman.
us काउंटी household median आय 2009.
Median us household आय, 2001-2011
Household income is a measure commonly used by the United States government and private संस्थानों.
Each household is measured by the income of प्रत्येक निवासी over the age of 15.
Income शामिल wages और salaries, unemployment बीमे, विकलांगता payments, चाइल्ड support payments प्राप्त, नियमित rental रसीदें, as well as any निजी business, investment, or अन्य kinds of income received routinely.
While inflation-adjusted ( `` real '' ) household income had been increasing almost प्रत्येक year from 1945 to 1999, it has since been flat and भी decreased recently.
u.S. मध्य household आय गिरी from $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011.
Extreme poverty in the United States, meaning households living on less than $ 2 per day before government benefits, doubled from 1996 to 1.5 लाख households in 2011, सहित 2.8 लाख children.
The residents of the household do not have to be related to the head of the household for their आय to be माना part of the household 's income.
As households tend to share a similar आर्थिक context, the उपयोग of household income remains among the most widely स्वीकृत measures of आय.
That the size of a household is नहीं commonly लिया into account in such उपायों may distort any विश्लेषण of fluctuations within or among the household आय श्रेणी, और may render direct comparisons between quintiles मुश्किल or even नामुमकिन.
A पंजीकृत agent, भी known as a resident agent or statutory एजेंट, in United राज्य business विधि, is a business or individual designated to receive service of process ( SOP ) when a business एंटिटी is a पार्टी in a legal action ऐसे as a lawsuit or summons.
the registered agent 's address may भी be where the state होगा send the कागजी for the yearly नवीकरण of the business एंटिटी 's चार्टर.
The registered एजेंट लिये a कारोबार entity may be an individual member of the company, or ( more often ) a तीसरा पार्टी, such as the संगठन 's lawyer or a service company.
विफलता to properly maintain a पंजीकृत agent can affect a company negatively.
Office लिये Emergency Management.
दफ्तर of War सूचना युद्ध पोस्टर 1941 - 1945
`` जीवन, Liberty, और the pursuit of Happiness '' is a well-known phrase in the United राज्य घोषणा of Independence.
the phrase is meant to exemplify the `` unalienable अधिकारों '' with जिससे all इंसान beings हैं endowed by उनके creator for उनके protection of which वे institute governments.
तलवारबाजी, is typically divided into Olympic fencing, Classical fencing और ऐतिहासिक तलवारबाजी,.
The खेल of fencing ( commonly called ओलम्पिक fencing or प्रतिस्पर्धी तलवारबाजी ) is divided into three weapon categories : foil, सब्रे और épée.
Classical fencing uses the वही तीन हथियार, but approaches तलवारबाजी as a martial art.
प्रतिस्पर्धी तलवारबाजी is one of पाँच sports जिससे रै been featured at प्रत्येक one of the modern ओलम्पिक Games, the other चार being Athletics, Cycling, Swimming, and जिमनास्टिक्स.
The quadriceps femoris ( Latin लिये `` four-headed मांसपेशी of the femur `` ), also पुकारा बस the quadriceps, quadriceps extensor, quads, is a large मांसपेशी समूह that includes the चार prevailing muscles on the सामने of the जांघ.
It is the great extensor muscle of the घुटना, forming a large fleshy mass which covers the सामने और पहलू of the femur.
The उचित लैटिन बहुवचन रूप of the adjective quadriceps would be quadricipites.
in modern अंग्रेज़ी usage, quadriceps is used in both singular और plural.
The एकवचन form quadricep, produced by hypercorrection, is frequently प्रयुक्त.
RMS Titanic was a अंग्रेजों यात्री लाइनर कि sank in the North अटलांटिक Ocean on 15 अप्रैल 1912 बाद colliding साथ an iceberg दौरान उसके maiden voyage from Southampton, UK to नई यॉर्क City, US.
the sinking of टाइटैनिक caused the deaths of 1,502 people in one of the deadliest peacetime maritime disasters in modern history.
The RMS टाइटैनिक थी the largest ship afloat at the समय of her maiden voyage.
She was the दूसरी of three Olympic class समंदर liners operated by the श्वेत स्टार लकीर, और she was built by the harland and Wolff डॉकयार्ड in Belfast with Thomas एंड्रयूज, who perished with the ship, as her naval architect.
On उसके maiden voyage, she carried 2,224 passengers और crew.
Under the command of Edward Smith, her यात्री included some of the wealthiest people in the world, as खूब as सैंकड़ों of emigrants from ग्रेट ब्रिटेन and आयरलैंड, scandinavia and elsewhere throughout यूरोपीय seeking a new life in उत्तर America.
the ship was designed to be the last शब्द in comfort और लक्ज़री, साथ an on-board gymnasium, तैराकी pool, libraries, high-class restaurants और opulent cabins.
She also था a powerful बेतार टेलीग्राफ provided लिये the convenience of passengers as खूब as लिये operational use.
हालांकि वो had उन्नत safety features such as watertight compartments और remotely activated watertight doors, वो lacked enough lifeboats to accommodate सब of those सवार.
क्युकी of outdated maritime safety regulations, she carried तभी पर्याप्त lifeboats for 1,178 people—slightly अधिक than half of the number travelling on the maiden voyage, और one-third her कुल passenger and crew capacity.
After leaving southampton on 10 अप्रैल 1912, Titanic called at Cherbourg in फ़्रांस and Queenstown ( now Cobh ) in आयरलैंड before heading westwards towards नई York.
On 14 April 1912, चार days into the crossing and परिचय 375 मील ( 600 km ) south of Newfoundland, she hit an हिमशैल at 11:40 pm जलयान 's समय.
The glancing टक्कर caused titanics hull प्लेटों to buckle inwards साथ उसके स्टारबोर्ड side और opened five of उसके sixteen watertight compartments to the समुद्र ; the जलयान धीरे filled with water.
Meanwhile, passengers और कुछ crew सदस्यों यहूद evacuated in lifeboats, अनेक of जिससे were launched only partly loaded.
A disproportionate number of men यहूद बाएँ सवार because of a `` महिलाओं और children पहला `` प्रोटोकॉल followed by कुछ of the अधिकारियों लदान the lifeboats.
by 2:20 AM, वो broke अलावा and foundered, साथ well over एक हजार लोगों स्टिल aboard.
Just under two hours after the टाइटैनिक foundered, the Cunard लाइनर RMS carpathia arrived on the scene of the sinking, where she brought सवार an अनुमानित 705 survivors.
The disaster थी greeted with विश्वव्यापी shock and आक्रोश at the विशाल घाटा of life and the regulatory and operational failures कि था led to it.
Public inquiries in Britain and the United राज्य led to major improvements in मेरीटाइम सुरक्षा.
One of उनके सबसे महत्वपूर्ण legacies was the स्थापना in 1914 of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय सम्मेलन लिये the Safety of Life at Sea ( solas ), जिससे still governs maritime सुरक्षा today.
additionally, several new wireless regulations were passed around the संसार in an प्रयत्न to learn from the many missteps in wireless संचार -- -which could have saved many अधिक passengers.
अनेक of the survivors lost all of their धन और possessions and यहूद left अक्षम ; many परिवारों, विशेषकर those of crew members from southampton, lost their primary bread-winners.
वे were helped by an outpouring of public सहानुभूति and charitable दान.
कुछ of the male survivors were अभियुक्त of cowardice for leaving the जलयान जबकि लोगों यहूद स्टिल on फलक ; the White Star Line 's अध्यक्ष, J. Bruce ismay, faced सोशल ostracism for the बाकी of उसके जीवन.
the wreck of the टाइटैनिक remains on the समुद्रतल, split in two and धीरे disintegrating at a गहराई of.
चूंकि इसके discovery in 1985, thousands of artefacts have been recovered और put on प्रदर्शक at संग्रहालय around the world.
टाइटैनिक has become one of the most प्रसिद्ध जहाजों in इतिहास, her memory kept alive by numerous books, folk songs, films, दर्शाती, और memorials.
the human leg is the entire lower extremity or limb of the इंसान body, including the foot, जांघ and भी the हिप or gluteal region ; however, the precise परिभाषा in इंसान anatomy refers तभी to the section of the lower limb extending from the knee to the ankle.
टाँगे हैं used for standing, walking, कूद, कार्यशील, kicking, and similar क्रियाएँ, और constitute a significant portion of a व्यक्ति 's mass.
इस आलेख is परिचय the demographic features of the population of तुर्कों, including population density, नस्ल, शिक्षा स्तर, health of the populace, आर्थिक status, religious संबद्धों और अन्य aspects of the population.
as of 2010, the जनसांख्यिकी of Turkey is estimated to be 73.7 लाख with a विकास रेट of 1.21 % per annum ( 2009 figure ).
the जनसांख्यिकी is अपेक्षाकृत young with 26.6 % गिरना in the 0-14 आयु bracket.
according to the OECD/World Bank जनसांख्यिकी आंकडे in तुर्कों the population विकास from 1990 to 2008 थी 16 million or 29 %.
1998 bmw 750iL
Buick Roadmaster
A full-size car is a विपणन term प्रयुक्त in उत्तर America लिये an automobile larger than a mid-size car.
In the United States, the EPA uses the term `` विशाल car '' to denote full-size cars.
Joel Grey ( born अप्रैल 11, 1932 ) is an अमरीकी स्टेज and screen actor, सिंगर, and dancer, known for his भूमिका as the निपुण of ceremonies in both the stage and film adaptation of the kander & Ebb musical Cabaret.
He has won the Academy पुरस्कार, टोनी Award and Golden Globe पुरस्कार.
he भी originated the भूमिका of जार्ज M. Cohan in the musical जार्ज m !
in 1973, the Wizard in the musical Wicked.
Grey भी starred in the Broadway revivals of Anything Goes as Moonface मार्टिन, और शिकागो as अमोस हार्ट.
James Madison, jr. ( March 16, 1751 ( o.s. March 5 ) – जून 28, 1836 ) थी an अमरीकी statesman and राजनैतिक theorist, the चौथी President of the United States ( 1809–1817 ).
He is hailed as the “Father of the Constitution” for being इंस्ट्रूमेंटल in the drafting of the United States संविधान and as the key champion and लेखक of the United States विधेयक of अधिकारों.
he परोसा as a politician much of his adult life.
After the constitution था been drafted, Madison became एक of the नेताओ in the movement to ratify it.
His सहयोग with सिकंदर हैमिल्टन and जॉन jay produced the federalist papers ( 1788 ).
Circulated only in New York at the time, they would later be माना among the most महत्वपूर्ण polemics in support of the Constitution.
he was भी a delegate to the वर्जिनिया constitutional ratifying सम्मेलन, and थी इंस्ट्रूमेंटल to the successful ratification effort in Virginia.
Like सबसे of his contemporaries, मैडिसन बदला his राजनैतिक views during his life.
दौरान the drafting और ratification of the संविधान, he favored a दमदार नेशनल government, though बाद he grew to favor stronger राज्य सरकारें, before settling between the two extremes लेट in उसके life.
in 1789, मैडिसन became a नेता in the नई House of Representatives, drafting many मौलिक laws.
He is notable लिये drafting the first ten amendments to the Constitution, and thus is ज्ञात as the `` Father of the विधेयक of Rights ``.
मैडिसन worked closely साथ President George वॉशिंगटन to organize the नई federal सरकारी.
तोड़कर with Hamilton और what became the federalist पार्टी in 1791, Madison and थामस जेफरसन व्यवस्थित what वे पुकारा the Republican Party ( बाद called by historians the democratic-republican Party )
as jefferson’s Secretary of State ( 1801–1809 ), मैडिसन supervised the Louisiana खरीदें, जिससे doubled the nation’s आकार.
बाद his election to the presidency, he presided over renewed prosperity for several years.
as अध्यक्ष ( 1809–17 ), after the विफलता of diplomatic विरोध and a व्यापार embargo विरूद्ध ग्रेट Britain, he led the nation into the War of 1812.
he was responding to British encroachments on American honor and rights ; in जोड, he wanted to end the influence of the अंग्रेजों among their Indian allies, whose प्रतिरोध अवरोधित संयुक्त States उपनिवेश in the मिडवेस्ट around the Great झीलों.
मैडिसन found the युद्ध to be an प्रशासनिक nightmare, as the United राज्य था neither a strong army nor वित्तीय प्रणाली ; as a परिणाम, he afterward समर्थित a stronger national सरकारी और a दमदार सैन्य, as well as the national बैंको, which he had long opposed.
जैसे other वर्जिनिया statesmen in the स्लेव समाज, he was a slaveholder who inherited his plantation known as Montpelier, और स्वामित्व सैंकड़ों of स्लेव during his आजीवन to cultivate तम्बाकू and अन्य crops.
Madison समर्थित the three-fifths सुलह that अनुमत three-fifths of the enumerated population of स्लेव to be गिने for representation.
`` रोमन 's बदला '' is a सोंग performed by American rapper Nicki minaj इससे उसके डेब्यू studio album गुलाबी Friday.
It थी लिखा by minaj और rapper एमिनेम, जो is also featured in the सोंग, and was produced by Swizz Beatz.
it थी released exclusively on October 30, 2010 through the us itunes Store, as a promotional रिलीज preceding the एल्बम 's रिलीज.
the song initiated a feud between Lil ' किम और Minaj, where अनेक लोगों felt the सोंग was निर्देशित at Lil ' Kim and regarded around उसके feelings towards minaj 's वृद्धि to कीर्ति.
The song references Minaj 's alter-ego, Roman zolanski, and Eminem 's alter-ego, पतला छायादार.
the song garnered very धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ from critics, सबसे of which praised the सोंग as a stand-out track on the album.
An official रिमिक्स featuring Minaj 's mentor, Lil वेन, was released to the US itunes Store on January 19, 2011.
The instrumental was प्रयुक्त in the सोंग 'Firing स्क्वाड ' by नाल g.a.n.g.
हाइड्रोलिक fluid being poured.
हाइड्रोलिक fluids, भी called हाइड्रोलिक liquids, are the मीडियम by which power is transferred in hydraulic मशीनरी.
Common हाइड्रोलिक fluids हैं आधारित on mineral oil or water.
उदाहरण of उपकरण कि might उपयोग hydraulic fluids include excavators और backhoes, हाइड्रोलिक brakes, power steering systems, transmissions, कचरा ट्रक, aircraft flight control systems, lifts, and औद्योगिक machinery.
Hydraulic प्रणालियों like the ones उल्लेखित ऊपर will work most efficiently if the hydraulic fluid प्रयुक्त रै no compressibility
महिंद्रा Tractor
Mahindra Tractors, the फार्म equipment प्रभाग of Mahindra & महिंद्रा, builds and sources tractors कि are बेची worldwide across छह continents.
महिंद्रा is भी among the शीर्ष तीन tractor निर्माताओं in the world.
Mahindra रै a huge उपभोक्ता base in इण्डिया, चीन and America and a growing आधार in Australia.
the कम्पनी builds अधिक tractors in India than कोई other निर्माता, and has the क्षमता to निर्माण 150,000 tractors a year.
In 1963, m & m formed a joint venture with अंतरराष्ट्रीय Harvester to manufacture tractors carrying the महिंद्रा nameplate लिये the भारतीय market.
हथियारबंद साथ engineering, tooling और manufacturing know-how gained from इस relationship, M & M developed its first ट्रैक्टर, the B-275.
महिंद्रा Tractors with बिक्री of nearly 85,000 इकाई annually is one of the largest tractor companies in the संसार, and is क्रमांक one in sales in इण्डिया - the largest tractor market in the संसार.
To expand into the growing tractor market in चीन, महिंद्रा acquired majority हिस्सेदारी in jiangling.
To उठाएँ जागरूकता परिचय महिंद्रा in the us, Mahindra USA घोषित इसके नई sponsorship in the nascar Nationwide Series with r3 Motorsports, जिससे is participating with a # 23 Mahindra tractors Chevrolet.
The car will be driven by Robert Richardson, jr. Mahindra यूएसए, Inc. announced a 17-race प्राथमिक and 18-race associate sponsorship लिये the 2009 nascar देशभर Series.
साथ इस sponsorship, Mahindra was the first Indian company to sponsor a car in NASCAR.
In 2008, Mahindra थी a sponsor of the मैकडोनाल्ड मोटरस्पोर्ट टोली जिससे ran the # 81 car in the NASCAR Nationwide Series.
The power6 is a माइक्रोप्रोसेसर developed by ibm that implemented the Power isa v.2.03.
When it became available in प्रणालियों in 2007, it succeeded the POWER5+ as IBM 's फ्लैगशिप Power माइक्रोप्रोसेसर.
It is भाग of the eCLipz project, said to have a लक्ष्य of converging ibm 's सर्वर hardware where practical ( hence `` ipz '' in the एक्रोनिम : iSeries, pseries, and zSeries ).
the अमरीकी middle क्लास is a social class in the United States.
जबकि the अवधारणा is typically ambiguous in popular opinion और आम language use, समकालीन सोशल वैज्ञानिकों have put आगे अनेक, more or less congruent, theories on the अमरीकी middle क्लास.
depending on क्लास model used, the middle क्लास may constitute anywhere from 25 % to 66 % of households.
एक of the पहला major studies of the middle क्लास in America was White Collar : the American Middle Classes, published in 1951 by sociologist C. Wright Wright_Mills मिलों Wright_Mills.
Later sociologists ऐसे as Dennis गिल्बर्ट of हैमिल्टन College commonly divide the मध्य क्लास into दो sub-groups.
Constituting roughly 15 % to 20 % of households is the अपर or पेशेवर middle क्लास consisting of अत्यधिक educated, salaried पेशेवर and managers.
constituting roughly one तीसरा of households is the निम्नतर middle क्लास consisting mostly of semi-professionals, skilled craftsmen और lower-level management.
Middle-class persons commonly have a आरामदायक standard of जीना, significant आर्थिक security, considerable work autonomy and rely on their expertise to sustain themselves.
Members of the मध्य class belong to विविध समूह which overlap with each अन्य.
overall, middle-class persons, especially upper-middle-class individuals, are characterized by conceptualizing, creating और consulting.
यूँ, कॉलेज education is one of the प्रमुख indicators of middle-class औकात.
Largely attributed to the nature of middle-class occupations, मध्य class values tend to emphasize independence, adherence to मूलभूत standards, valuing नवीनता और respecting non-conformity.
नीतियां more क्रियाशील than अन्य demographics, कॉलेज educated middle क्लास professionals are विभाजित between the two major parties.
आय varies considerably इससे near the national median to well in excess of $ 100,000.
household income आंकड़े, however, do not always reflect class status and standard of living, as they हैं largely influenced by the number of income earners and fail to recognize household size.
It is therefore possible लिये a विशाल, dual-earner, lower middle class household to out-earn a small, one-earner, upper मध्य class household.
The middle वर्ग हैं बहुत influential, as they encompass the बहुमत of voters, लेखक, teachers, पत्रकारों, और सम्पादक.
Most societal trends in the US originate within the middle classes.
The following is a list of शनिवार Night Live cast members, पास्ट and present.
The cast सदस्यों of शनिवार Night Live were originally referred to as the `` नहीं तैयार लिये Prime Time Players ''.
The असली cast ( l to r ) : Laraine Newman, John Belushi, Jane कर्टिन, Gilda Radner, डान Aykroyd, Garrett मॉरिस, और Chevy Chase
तबाह from the 1906 सैन फ्रांसिस्को earthquake, remembered as one of the worst natural आपदाओं in संयुक्त States history
A विपत्ति is a प्राकृतिक or man-made ( or technological ) hazard resulting in an इवेंट of substantial extent causing significant शारीरिक damage or विनाश, loss of life, or drastic change to the environment.
A विपत्ति can be ostensively defined as any tragic इवेंट stemming from events ऐसे as earthquakes, floods, अनर्थकारी accidents, fires, or explosions.
It is a घटना that can cause damage to life and property and नष्ट the आर्थिक, सोशल and cultural life of people.
In contemporary academia, आपदाओं हैं देखी as the consequence of inappropriately प्रबंधित risk.
ये risks are the उत्पाद of a संयोजन of दोनो hazard/s और vulnerability.
Hazards कि strike in areas with low vulnerability होगा never become आपदाओं, as is the मामला in uninhabited regions.
Developing countries suffer the greatest लागत जब a disaster hits – more than 95 प्रतिशत of सब deaths caused by disasters occur in विकासशील countries, and losses due to प्राकृतिक disasters are 20 times वृहद ( as a प्रतिशत of GDP ) in developing countries than in industrialized countries.
In कम्प्यूटिंग, booting ( also known as booting up ) is the initial set of operations that a computer system performs when electrical शक्ति to the cpu is switched on.
the process begins when a कंप्यूटर is turned on for the पहला time or is re-energized after being turned बंद, and ends when the computer is ready to perform इसके सामान्य operations.
on modern सामान्य purpose computers, this can लो tens of seconds और typically involves performing a power-on self-test, locating and initializing peripheral डिवाइस, और then ढूंढना, loading and starting an ऑपरेटिंग system.
अनेक कंप्यूटर प्रणालियों also allow ये operations to be initiated by a तन्त्र command बगैर साइकिलिंग power, in कया is ज्ञात as a नरम reboot, हालांकि कुछ of the initial परिचालन might be छोड़ा on a soft रिबूट.
A बूट लोडर is a computer program that loads the main ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली or runtime पर्यावरण for the कंप्यूटर बाद completion of the self-tests.
the computer term boot is छोटी for बूटस्ट्रैप or bootstrap लोड और गर्भाशयी from the phrase to खींचो oneself up by एक 's bootstraps.
The usage काल्स attention to the requirement that, if most तन्त्र is loaded onto a computer by अन्य software already running on the computer, some mechanism must exist to load initial software onto the computer.
Early कंप्यूटर used a variety of ad-hoc methods to मिलेंगी a छोटी कार्यक्रम into मेमोरी to solve इस प्रॉब्लम.
The invention of integrated सर्किट read-only memory ( rom ) of various प्रकार solved this विरोधाभास by allowing कंप्यूटर to be shipped साथ a प्रारंभ up program कि could not be erased.
विकास in the capacity of ROM रै अनुमत ever अधिक elaborate प्रारंभ up प्रक्रियाओं to be implemented.
on सामान्य purpose computers, the बूट process begins साथ the निष्पादन of an initial program stored in boot roms or पढ़ा in another फ़ैशन.
In कुछ older कंप्यूटर, the initial program might have been the application to चलाएं, if no operating system was used, or the operating system.
In other कंप्यूटर, the initial कार्यक्रम is a बूट loader कि may then लोड into random-access memory ( RAM ), इससे nonvolatile secondary storage ( ऐसे as a hard disk drive ) or, in some older computers, from a medium ऐसे as punched ताश, punched tape, or magnetic tape in older computers, the binary कोड of an operating system or runtime environment and then execute it.
If the boot लोडर is सीमित in its size and capabilities, it may, instead, load a larger और अधिक capable secondary बूट loader, which होता then load the ऑपरेटिंग system or runtime पर्यावरण.
Some embedded systems do नहीं require a noticeable boot sequence to शुरू functioning और जब turned on may simply run operational programs that are stored in ROM.
firebird is an open source SQL रिलेशनल database management system that runs on लिनक्स, खिड़कियाँ, and a variety of Unix.
the database forked इससे Borland 's open सोर्स संस्करण of interbase in 2000, लकिन चूंकि firebird 1.5 the code has महरूम largely rewritten.
Outsourcing is the contracting out of an internal business प्रक्रम to a third-party organization.
The practice of contracting a business process आउट to a third party बल्कि than स्टॉफ it internally is common in the आधुनिक economy.
The term `` आउटसोर्सिंग '' became लोकप्रिय in the संयुक्त राज्य near the फेरे of the 21st सदी.
आउटसोर्सिंग sometimes involves transferring कर्मचारी और assets from one कड़ to another, but not always.
the definition of outsourcing includes both विदेशी and domestic contracting, and sometimes includes offshoring, जिससे अर्थात् relocating a कारोबार function to another देश.
Financial बचत इससे lower international labor rates is a बिग प्रेरणा for outsourcing/offshoring.
The opposite of आउटसोर्सिंग is called insourcing, which entails bringing processes handled by third-party firms in-house, and is sometimes संपन्नता via लंबवत संयोजन.
However, a कारोबार can provide a अनुबंध service to another business without necessarily insourcing कि business process.
इंसान immunodeficiency वायरस ( hiv ) is a lentivirus ( slowly replicating retrovirus ) that कल्याणकारी acquired immunodeficiency सिंड्रोम ( AIDS ), a condition in इंसानो in जिससे progressive failure of the प्रतिरक्षा system allows life-threatening opportunistic infections और cancers to thrive.
Infection with HIV occurs by the transfer of blood, वीर्य, vaginal द्रव, pre-ejaculate, or स्तन मिल्क.
Within these bodily fluids, HIV is present as दोनो free वायरस अणु और virus भीतर infected immune cells.
hiv infects vital cells in the इंसान immune system ऐसे as helper t कोशिकाएं ( specifically CD4 + T कोशिकाएं ), macrophages, and dendritic cells.
hiv infection लीड to कम स्तर of CD4+ T कोशिकाएं through a number of mechanisms including : apoptosis of uninfected bystander कोशिकाएं, direct वाइरल killing of संक्रमित cells, and killing of infected CD4+ t cells by CD8 cytotoxic lymphocytes कि recognize संक्रमित cells.
जब CD4+ t cell numbers decline below a नाजुक level, cell-mediated immunity is lost, और the body becomes progressively more susceptible to opportunistic infections.
the firepole in a आग स्टेशन in टोरंटो
A fireman 's pole ( also called a स्लाइडिंग ध्रुव or firepole ) is a लकड़ी pole or a metal tube or pipe installed between floors in आग स्टेशन, allowing अग्निशमन responding to an सचेतक to quickly descend to the ground floor faster than by using a मानक staircase.
The यंत्र was invented in the 1870s by David Kenyon, in शिकागो, Illinois, हालांकि it is often incorrectly credited to the Boston आग विभाग.
Mary poppins is the title character of a श्रेणी of children 's books written by P. L. ट्रेवर्स.
Throughout the मरियम poppins series, जिससे lasted from 1934 to 1988, Mary Shepard was the इलस्ट्रेटर और acted as a second author.
The books केन्द्र on a magical English nanny, Mary Poppins.
She is blown by the East wind to Number Seventeen Cherry Tree Lane, London, and into the बैंको ' household to परवाह लिये उनके children.
Encounters with चिमनी sweeps, दुकानदारों and various adventures follow until Mary poppins abruptly leaves, i.e., `` pops-out ''.
The adventures take place over a कुल of आठ books.
however, only the पहला तीन books feature मरियम poppins arriving and leaving.
the later five books recount previously unrecorded adventures from उसके असली three visits.
as P. L. Travers explains in उसके परिचय to Mary Poppins in the पार्क, `` She can नहीं forever arrive and depart. ''
the books were adapted in 1964 into a musical डिज़्नी film अभिनीत जूली Andrews और लंड वैन Dyke.
in 2004, डिज़्नी Theatrical उत्पादित a stage musical adaptation in the West End थिएटर.
The स्टेज musical थी transferred to ब्रॉडवे in 2006 where it भागा जबतक its closing on March 3, 2013.
it रै been अत्यधिक successful, as was the 1964 film.
The Last सोंग is a 2010 अमरीकी coming of age teen romantic नाटक film विकसित alongside Nicholas Sparks ' अनोखा by the वही नाम.
the film was directed by Julie Anne Robinson in her feature फिल्मी directorial डेब्यू and co-written by Sparks and जेफ़ Van Wie.
The Last सोंग stars Miley Cyrus, लियाम hemsworth, and ग्रेग kinnear and follows a troubled किशोरावस्था as she reconnects साथ her estranged पिता and falls in love during a गर्मियाँ in a शांत दक्षिणी संयुक्त States beach कस्बा.
the film is वितरित by Touchstone Pictures.
Sparks was approached to write both the film 's screenplay and the novel.
Sparks समाप्त the screenplay in January 2009, prior to the पूर्णता of the अनोखा, making the Last Song his first script to be optioned for फिल्मी.
The setting, originally in North Carolina जैसे the novel, moved to Georgia after the states था campaigned for महीने to host production.
Upon beginning production in tybee Island, Georgia and आसपास Savannah, the Last सोंग became the first फिल्म to be both shot and set in Tybee द्वीप.
Filming lasted from June 15 to अगस्त 18, 2009 साथ much of it occurring on the द्वीप 's beach and बांध.
The पिछला Song was originally अनुसूचित लिये wide release on January 8, 2010, लकिन was postponed to March 31, 2010.
Written Simlish
simlish is a fictional language featured in EA खेल ' Sim श्रेणी of games.
it debuted in SimCopter, and रै महरूम विशेषकर prominent in The Sims, The सीम 2 और the सीम 3.
the Sims development team निर्मित the अद्वितीय simlish भाषा by experimenting with fractured Ukrainian, French, लैटिन, Finnish, अंग्रेज़ी, fijian, Cebuano, और Tagalog.
simlish can भी be heard in simcity 4, simcity समाजों and simcity 2013, लकिन दूर कम frequently.
Civilized Creatures in spore can also be taught to बोलो Simlish.
it is also प्रदर्शित to an extent in firaxis Games ' Sid मायर 's simgolf.
Designer होगा राइट was सचेत of the need for संवाद in the खेल, but विचार कि using a रियल language would make it sound too repetitive and would also be too costly to hire translators for world languages.
Initially, प्रेरित by the Native अमरीकी code talkers of संसार युद्ध II, Sims निर्माता Will Wright and language विशेषज्ञ मार्क Gimbel suggested experimenting with the Navajo language to बनाएँ Simlish.
However, वे ultimately decided that simlish worked बेहतरीन as a `` भाषा '' बना up of gibberish शब्द कि could n't be translated, so that its meaning होता be left open to the imagination of the player.
Wright later commented that using `` nonsense भाषा '' turned out to be the सही development चुनाव, as लोगों यहूद capable of imagining it अधिक realistically than a computer could simulate a रियल एक.
The वास्तविक sound of simlish was created improvisationally by voice actors स्टीफन Kearin and Gerri Lawlor.
An example of अल्ट्रासोनिक परीक्षण ( UT ) on blade roots of a V2500 IAE वायुयान engine.
Step 1 : The ut जांच is placed on the रूट of the ब्लेड to be inspected with the सहायता of a special borescope tool ( वीडियो जांच ).
Step 2 : Instrument जमावट are input.
Step 3 : The जांच is scanned over the blade root.
in इस मामला, an indication ( शिखर in the data ) through the red line ( or gate ) indicates a शुभ blade ; an indication to the बाएँ of कि दायरा indicates a क्रैक.
Principle of ultrasonic परीक्षण.
बाएँ : A जांच भेजना a ध्वनि wave into a test material.
There हैं two indications, one from the आरंभिक pulse of the probe, and the second due to the back wall echo.
सही : A defect creates a तीसरा indication और simultaneously reduces the amplitude of the back वॉल indication.
The गहराई of the defect is संकल्पित by the ratio D/E
in ultrasonic testing ( UT ), very छोटी अल्ट्रासोनिक pulse-waves साथ बीच बारंबारता ranging इससे 0.1-15 mhz and occasionally up to 50 MHz are launched into materials to detect आतंरिक flaws or to characterize materials.
a common example is ultrasonic thickness measurement, which tests the thickness of the परीक्षण object, for उदाहरण, to monitor pipework corrosion.
Ultrasonic testing is प्रायः performed on स्टील and other metals और alloys, though it can also be used on concrete, wood और composites, albeit साथ less रेज़ोल्यूशन.
It is a रूप of non-destructive testing used in many industries सहित aerospace, ऑटोमोटिव और other transportation सेक्टर.
the vas deferens ( plural : vasa deferentia ), भी called ductus deferens ( Latin : `` carrying-away पोत '' ; बहुवचन : ductus deferentes ), is part of the पुरूष anatomy of अनेक vertebrates ; वे transport sperm from the epididymis in anticipation of ejaculation.
Vascular ischemia of the toes साथ characteristic cyanosis.
in medicine, ischemia, also spelled as ischaemia or ischæmia, ( ; इससे Greek language ισχαιμία, ischaimía ; isch- root denoting a प्रतिबंध or thinning or to make or grow thin/lean, haema रक्त ) is a प्रतिबंध in blood सप्लाई to ऊतकों, causing a shortage of oxygen और glucose needed for सेल्यूलर metabolism ( to keep tissue alive ).
Ischemia is generally caused by problems साथ blood vessels, with resultant damage to or dysfunction of ऊतक.
It also means लोकल रक्ताल्पता in a given part of a body sometimes resulting from जमघट ( ऐसे as vasoconstriction, घनास्रता or embolism ).
Down syndrome ( ds ) or Down 's सिंड्रोम, भी ज्ञात as trisomy 21, is a genetic विकार caused by the presence of all or भाग of a third copy of chromosome 21.
Down syndrome is the सबसे common chromosome abnormality in humans.
it is typically संबद्ध साथ a delay in cognitive ability ( mental retardation, or mr ) and शारीरिक growth, और a particular set of फेशियल characteristics.
The औसत IQ of यंग वयस्कों साथ bas syndrome is around 50, whereas young adults बगैर the condition typically have an iq of 100.
( mr रै historically been defined as an iq नीचे 70. )
A विशाल proportion of individuals साथ bas syndrome have a severe उपाधि of intellectual विकलांगता.
Down syndrome is named after जॉन langdon Down, the अंग्रेजों physician who described the syndrome in 1866.
The कंडीशन was clinically वर्णित पहले by जां etienne Dominique esquirol in 1838 और edouard Seguin in 1844.
bas syndrome थी identified as a chromosome 21 trisomy by Dr. jérôme Lejeune in 1959.
Down सिंड्रोम can be पहचाना in a baby at जनम or पहले जनम by prenatal screening.
Pregnancies साथ इस diagnosis हैं प्रायः terminated.
the CDC estimates that about एक of every 691 शिशु born in the संयुक्त राज्य प्रत्येक साल is born with Down सिंड्रोम.
अनेक children with bas syndrome are educated in regular स्कूल classes जबकि others require specialised educational facilities.
कुछ children graduate इससे ऊँची स्कूल, और, in the US, there हैं increasing opportunities for participating in post-secondary education.
शिक्षा और proper care रै been दिखाया to improve quality of life significantly.
Many वयस्कों साथ bas Syndrome हैं able to कार्य at सशुल्क नियुक्ति in the community, जबकि others आवश्यकता a अधिक sheltered कार्य environment.
Hot flashes ( also known as hot flushes, or रात्रि sweats if वे happen at night ) are a symptom which may have several other कल्याणकारी, but which is प्रायः caused by the changing हार्मोन levels that are characteristic of menopause.
The Servicemen 's Readjustment Act of 1944 ( p.l. 78-346, 58 Stat. 284m ), ज्ञात informally as the G.I. Bill, was a law that provided a दायरा of benefits for returning संसार War II veterans ( commonly referred to as G.I.s ).
Benefits included low-cost mortgages, low-interest loans to प्रारंभ a business or farm, cash payments of ट्यूशन and living expenses to attend college, high school or वोकेशनल education, as well as one year of unemployment मुआवजे.
it was available to प्रत्येक veteran जो had been on active ड्यूटी during the war सालो for at तनिक नब्बे days और had not been dishonorably discharged ; कॉम्बैट थी नहीं जरूरी.
By the end of the program in 1956, roughly 2.2 लाख veterans had used the G.I. Bill education लाभ in अनुक्रम to attend colleges or universities, और an additional 6.6 लाख प्रयुक्त these benefits for कुछ kind of प्रशिक्षण program.
चूंकि the original 1944 law, the पद has come to शामिल other veteran लाभ कार्यक्रम created to assist veterans of subsequent wars as well as peacetime सेवा.
Historians और अर्थशास्त्रियों consider the G.I. विधेयक a प्रमुख political success—especially in कंट्रास्ट to the treatments of World War I veterans—and a प्रमुख योगदान to अमेरिका 's stock of human पूंजी that sped long-term economic growth.
The वाटरगेट scandal was a राजनैतिक कांड कि occurred in the United राज्य in the 1970s as a result of the जून 17, 1972 break-in at the लोकतांत्रिक National Committee मुख्यालय at the वाटरगेट office complex in वॉशिंगटन, D.C., और the Nixon administration 's attempted cover-up of इसके involvement.
the scandal आखिरकार led to the resignation of रिचर्ड Nixon, the अध्यक्ष of the United States, on August 9, 1974 — the तभी इस्तीफा of a U.S. President.
The scandal भी resulted in the indictment, trial, conviction, and incarceration of forty-three persons, dozens of जिसको were निक्सन 's top administration officials.
The affair began with the arrest of five men लिये breaking और प्रवेश into the Democratic National Committee ( DNC ) मुख्यालय at the Watergate जटिल on June 17, 1972.
the Federal ब्यूरो of Investigation ( एफबीआई ) connected नकदी मिला on the burglars to a slush निधि used by the Committee for the Re-Election of the अध्यक्ष, the आधिकारिक संगठन of Nixon 's अभियान.
in जुलाई 1973, as प्रमाण mounted against the president 's staff, सहित गवाही provided by former staff सदस्यों in an छानबीन conducted by the Senate Watergate कमेटी, it थी revealed that अध्यक्ष निक्सन had a tape-recording प्रणाली in his offices and he had अंकित many conversations.
Recordings इससे these tapes implicated the president, revealing he had attempted to cover up the questionable ( और illegal ) goings-on that had लिया प्लेस during उसके प्रशासन, both before और बाद the break-in.
बाद a protracted series of bitter अदालत battles, the u.S. परम् Court unanimously ruled that the अध्यक्ष था to hand over the tapes to government investigators ; he ultimately complied.
Facing near-certain impeachment in the House of Representatives and a strong possibility of a conviction in the Senate, Nixon resigned the प्रेसिडेंसी on अगस्त 9, 1974.
His successor, जेराल्ड Ford, तब issued a pardon to him.
Elizabeth Imogene Webber ( formerly Lansing और Spencer ) is a fictional character on the ABC दिन साबुन opera General Hospital.
एलिज़ाबेथ is the granddaughter of Dr. Steve Hardy ( John beradino ), एक of the originating core वर्ण of the series.
Rebecca herbst originated the character on August 1, 1997 and has महरूम the only contract actress to खेल the भूमिका.
Elizabeth is part of दो supercouple pairings, Lucky Spencer and एलिज़ाबेथ Webber and Jason Morgan and Elizabeth Webber.
the United States presidency of रोनाल्ड Reagan, भी known as the Reagan administration, was a रिपब्लिकन प्रशासन headed by Ronald reagan from January 20, 1981, to January 20, 1989.
Domestically, the प्रशासन favored reducing government कार्यक्रम और introduced the largest across-the-board कर cuts in अमरीकी history.
The economic policies enacted in 1981, ज्ञात as `` Reaganomics ``, were an example of supply-side अर्थशास्त्र.
Reagan aimed to प्रोत्साहित उद्यमिता और सीमा the विकास of social spending, as खूब as the कटौती of regulation और महंगाई.
Economic growth saw a strong recovery in the 1980s, helping reagan to win a landslide re-election.
the national debt increased significantly, however.
Regarding foreign policy, the administration was steadfastly anti-communist, कॉलिंग the सोवियत Union an `` दुष्ट empire `` और समाप्ति 1970s détente.
Reagan त्वरित the massive buildup of the सैन्य प्रारंभ by his पूर्ववर्ती, including an invasion of हरा, the first प्रमुख overseas कार्रवाई by U.S. troops since the end of the Vietnam युद्ध.
The `` Reagan doctrine `` controversially granted सहायता to paramilitary forces seeking to फेकने communist governments, particularly in war-torn सेंट्रल America और Afghanistan.
Reagan also प्रचारित new technologies such as missile रक्षा systems in अनुक्रम to confront the soviets and their allies.
In diplomacy, Reagan forged a strong alliance with UK प्रधान मंत्री मार्गरेट Thatcher, और he met साथ सोवियत सामान्य Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev four टाइम्स, aiming to shrink the superpowers ' nuclear arsenals.
Reagan 's प्रेसिडेंसी has been termed the `` Reagan Revolution '', or the Age of reagan in मान्यता of the राजनैतिक realignment both within और beyond the U.S. in एहसान of उसके ब्रांड of कोसा and his faith in free बाज़ार.
the Reagan administration worked toward the collapse of Soviet Communism, and it किया collapse बस as he बाएँ office.
Victory in the Cold War led to a unipolar world साथ the U.S. as the संसार 's एकमात्र superpower.
While the damaging iran-contra affair engulfed several Reagan aides दौरान उसके second term, Reagan himself left दफ्तर साथ a 63 percent स्वीकृति rating, एक of the higher approval दरजा of departing presidents.
बाद years of unstinting praise from the right, और unrelenting आलोचना इससे the बाएँ, historian दाउद Henry पाता that by 2009 a consensus था उभरा among scholars कि reagan revived conservatism and turned the स्वदेश to the right by demonstrating a `` pragmatic कोसा '' that promoted ideology within the constraints imposed by the विभाजित political प्रणाली.
Furthermore, says Henry, the consensus viewpoint agrees that he revived faith in the presidency और American self-confidence, and contributed critically to ending the ठंडा War.
Crude death रेट by country ( 2006 ).
Mortality rate is a measure of the number of मौतों ( in general, or due to a specific cause ) in a जनसांख्यिकी.
scaled to the size of कि जनसांख्यिकी, प्रति unit of time.
Mortality rate is typically expressed in इकाई of deaths per 1000 individuals प्रति साल ; यूँ, a mortality रेट of 9.5 ( out of 1000 ) in a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,000 would mean 9.5 मौतों per साल in that entire population, or 0.95 % आउट of the कुल.
It is distinct इससे morbidity रेट, which refers to the number of individuals in poor स्वास्थ्य during a given time काल ( the prevalence रेट ) or the number of newly appearing cases of the बीमारी प्रति unit of समय ( incidence rate ).
The term `` mortality `` is also sometimes inappropriately used to refer to the number of मौतों among a नियत of diagnosed hospital cases for a बीमारी or injury, बल्कि than for the सामान्य जनसांख्यिकी of a country or जातीय समूह.
This बीमारी मृत्यु statistic is more precisely referred to as `` मामला fatality rate `` ( CFR ).
One distinguishes:
The crude death रेट, the total number of deaths प्रति year प्रति 1000 लोगों.
the crude death रेट लिये the पूरे world is about 8.37 प्रति 1000 per year according to the वर्तमान सीआईए World Factbook.
the perinatal mortality rate, the योग of neonatal deaths and fetal deaths ( stillbirths ) प्रति 1000 births.
the मातृ मृत्यु ratio, the number of maternal deaths प्रति 100,000 live births in वही समय period.
The maternal मृत्यु rate, the number of maternal deaths per 1,000 women of reproductive आयु in the जनसांख्यिकी ( generally defined as 15–44 सालो of आयु ).
the शिशु mortality rate, the क्रमांक of मौतों of children कम than 1 year old per 1000 live births.
The child mortality रेट, the क्रमांक of deaths of children कम than 5 सालो old प्रति 1000 सजीव births.
the standardised मृत्यु अनुपात ( SMR ) - इस represents a proportional तुलना to the numbers of मौतों कि would have been expected if the जनसांख्यिकी था been of a standard composition in शर्तें of आयु, लिंग, etc.
The age-specific mortality रेट ( asmr ) - इस refers to the total क्रमांक of मौतों प्रति साल per 1000 people of a given age ( e.g. age 62 last birthday ).
in regard to the or failure of medical उपचार or procedures, one होता भी distinguish:
The early mortality रेट, the total क्रमांक of deaths in the early stages of an ongoing उपचार, or in the period immediately following an treatment.
The लेट mortality रेट, the कुल क्रमांक of deaths in the late चरण of an ongoing treatment, or a significant length of समय after an acute उपचार.
नोट that the crude मौत rate as defined above और लागू to a whole population can give a भ्रामक impression.
the crude मौत rate depends on the आयु ( and लिंग ) specific mortality rates और the आयु ( और gender ) distribution of the population.
the number of deaths per 1000 people can be higher for developed nations than in less-developed countries, despite जीवन expectancy being higher in विकसित countries due to standards of स्वास्थ्य being बेहतर.
This happens because विकसित देशों typically have a completely अलग population age वितरण, with a much higher proportion of older people, due to दोनो निम्नतर recent जनम rates and lower मृत्यु दरों.
A more पूरा picture of मृत्यु is given by a जीवन table which shows the मृत्यु रेट separately लिये each age.
a जीवन तालिका is necessary to give a शुभ अनुमान of life expectancy.
an otoacoustic emission ( OAE ) is a sound जिससे is उत्पन्न from भीतर the inner कान.
Having महरूम पूर्वानुमानित by थामस Gold in 1948, इसके existence was पहला demonstrated experimentally by दाउद Kemp in 1978 and otoacoustic emissions have since been दिखाया to arise by a number of different cellular mechanisms भीतर the inner ear.
Studies have shown that OAEs disappear बाद the भीतरी कान has been damaged, so OAEs हैं often used in the प्रयोगशाला और the clinic as a measure of भीतरी ear health.
broadly speaking, there हैं दो प्रकार of otoacoustic emissions : spontaneous otoacoustic emissions ( SOAEs ), which can occur बगैर external stimulation, और जगाई otoacoustic emissions ( EOAEs ), which require an evoking stimulus.
Hurricane Tomas was the nineteenth named storm और बारहवीं hurricane of the 2010 Atlantic hurricane ऋतु.
Tomas विकसित from a tropical वेव ईस्ट of the Windward आइलैंड्स on October 29.
जल्दी intensifying into a hurricane, it स्थानांतरित through the Windward Islands और passed very निकट Saint Lucia.
After reaching श्रेणी 2 status on the saffir-simpson scale, Tomas जल्दी weakened to a तीव्र storm in the central Caribbean Sea, due to strong wind shear और dry air.
टॉमस बाद regained hurricane status as it reorganized near the Windward ड्योढ़ी.
throughout the hurricane 's path, 71 लोगों are ज्ञात to have महरूम killed, 14 of जिसको यहूद in Saint लूसिया.
मौद्रिक losses throughout the windward Islands यहूद अनुमानित at US $ 588 million, मुख्यतः in Saint Lucia.
In the वेक of the तूफ़ान in Haiti, flooding intensified an जारी cholera outbreak indirectly causing more fatalities.
According to a रपट released in December 2010, 55 people were killed in Cuba और Hispanola, though the distribution of these fatalities are अनजान.
overall damage from the तूफ़ान was at least $ 741 million.
विक्टोरिया Jackson ( born August 2, 1959 ) is an American हास्य, actress, satirist, singer और internet ब्लॉगर best known as a डाल member of the एनबीसी television sketch comedy series Saturday रात्रि सजीव ( SNL ) इससे 1986 to 1992.
She रै प्राप्त attention as a vocal आलोचक of President Barack Obama, and is an active भागीदार in the Tea Party movement.
Postmodern literature is literature characterized by भारी reliance on तकनीकों like fragmentation, paradox, और questionable narrators, and is प्रायः ( हालांकि not exclusively ) defined as a स्टाइल or trend जिससे emerged in the post–World War II era.
Postmodern works are देखी as a reaction against आत्मज्ञान thinking and modernist approaches to literature.
Postmodern साहित्य, जैसे postmodernism as a पूरे, tends to resist परिभाषा or classification as a `` गति ''.
Indeed, the convergence of postmodern literature साथ various मोड्स of critical सिद्धान्त, विशेषकर reader-response and deconstructionist approaches, और the subversions of the implicit contract between author, टेक्स्ट and रीडर by जिससे इसके works are प्रायः characterised, have led to pre-modern fictions such as Cervantes ' डॉन Quixote ( 1605,1615 ) and Laurence Sterne 's eighteenth-century satire tristram shandy being retrospectively inducted into the fold.
जबकि there is little consensus on the precise characteristics, scope, और importance of postmodern साहित्य, as is प्रायः the मामला with artistic आंदोलनों, postmodern साहित्य is commonly पारिभाषित in relation to a precursor.
लिये example, a postmodern साहित्यिक work tends नहीं to conclude साथ the neatly tied-up ending as is प्रायः found in modernist literature, but often parodies it.
postmodern authors tend to celebrate chance over शिल्प, and further employ metafiction to undermine the writer 's authority.
Another characteristic of postmodern साहित्य is the questioning of भेद between high and low culture through the use of pastiche, the संयोजन of विषय और genres नहीं previously deemed अनुरूप for literature.
Enigma is an electronic musical प्रोजेक्ट संस्थापित in Germany by माइकल cretu, David Fairstein and Frank Peterson in 1990.
The Romanian-born Cretu conceived the Enigma प्रोजेक्ट जबकि working in Germany, but based his recording studio a.r.t. Studios in Ibiza, Spain, from the जल्दी 1990s जबतक may 2009, जहाँ he रै अंकित सब of Enigma 's studio releases to तिथि.
cretu is both the composer and the producer of the project.
His former wife, पॉप singer Sandra, often provided vocals on Enigma ट्रैक्स.
Jens gad co-arranged and played गिटार on तीन of the पहेली albums.
Peter Cornelius also contributed to Enigma दौरान the 1990s.
Seven स्टुडियो albums have महरूम उत्पादित अंतर्गत the नाम of the project.
scooby-doo is an अमरीकी animated cartoon मताधिकार, comprising several एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न series produced इससे 1969 to the उपस्थित दिन.
the original series, scooby-doo, Where हैं You !
, was निर्मित लिये Hanna-Barbera Productions by लेखक Joe माणिक्य और Ken स्पीयर्स in 1969.
This Saturday morning cartoon श्रेणी featured four teenagers— फ्रेड Jones, Daphne ब्लेक, Velma dinkley, and Norville `` shaggy '' रोजर्स — और उनके talking brown ग्रेट Dane dog नामित Scooby-Doo, जो solve रहस्यों involving supposedly supernatural जीव through a series of हरकतों और missteps.
following the success of the original series, Hanna-Barbera और its successor Warner Bros. एनिमेशन have produced numerous follow-up and spin-off animated श्रेणी and several सम्बन्धित works, including टेलीविज़न specials and telefilms, a लकीर of direct-to-video films, और two warner भाईs. –produced नाट्य feature films.
कुछ versions of Scooby-Doo विशेषता different विसंगतियाँ on the show 's अलौकिक theme, और include characters ऐसे as Scooby 's cousin Scooby-Dum और nephew Scrappy-Doo in addition to or instead of some of the original characters.
scooby-doo थी originally ब्रॉडकास्ट on सीबीएस इससे 1969 to 1976, when it moved to ABC.
ABC aired the show जबतक canceling it in 1986, और प्रस्तुत a spin-off featuring the characters as children, a pup नामित scooby-doo, इससे 1988 until 1991.
Two new Scooby-Doo series, कया 's नई, Scooby-Doo ?
और Shaggy और Scooby-Doo मिलेंगी a a Clue ! ] ], aired as part of Kids wb on the wb संजाल और इसके successor, The CW संजाल, इससे 2002 until 2008.
The most हाल scooby-doo series, Scooby-Doo !
Mystery Incorporated, aired on Cartoon संजाल इससे 2010 to 2013.
दोहराव of the विभिन्न scooby-doo श्रेणी हैं broadcast frequently on Cartoon Network and Boomerang in the United राज्य and other countries.
Call of Duty is a first-person और third-person shooter computer/ वीडियो game franchise.
The श्रेणी began on the pc, and बाद विस्तारित to consoles and handhelds.
Several spin-off खेल have भी been released.
the earlier games in the series are नियत primarily in संसार युद्ध ii, this शामिल : Call of Duty, कॉल of Duty 2, और Call of Duty 3.
Beginning with Modern Warfare, which is set in modern टाइम्स, the series has shifted फ़ोकस away इससे संसार युद्ध ii.
Call of ड्यूटी 4 : Modern Warfare ( released November 2007 ) was followed by कॉल of Duty : World at War and कॉल of Duty : Modern Warfare 2.
ब्लैक ops ( released नवम्बर 2010 ) takes प्लेस in the ठंडा War, while आधुनिक Warfare 3 ( released नवम्बर 2011 ) takes place in the near-future setting.
ब्लैक Ops 2 ( Released नवम्बर 13, 2012 ) takes प्लेस in the year 2025.
The Call of Duty games are published और owned by एक्टिविजन साथ Aspyr मीडिया प्रकाशन it for ठहराना os x.
While the स्टुडियो अनंत वार्ड primarily still develops them, treyarch has also विकसित अनेक of the शीर्षक साथ the release of the studios ' games interlaced with each other.
Some games have been developed by Gray Matter इंटरैक्टिव, Spark Unlimited, Amaze Entertainment, n-space, विद्रोह Developments, Ideaworks Game Studio, sledgehammer Games और nStigate Games.
the games use a किस्में of engines, सहित the id तकनीक 3, the Treyarch NGL, और the iw 5.0.
Other products in the franchise include a लकीर of कार्रवाई figures designed by Plan-B खिलौने, a card खेल निर्मित by Upper Deck, और a comic किताब mini-series published by wildstorm.
As of नवम्बर 11, 2011, the कॉल Of Duty series have sold over 100 million नक़ल.
As of कूच 31, 2012 वहीँ हैं 40 लाख monthly active players across all of the Call of ड्यूटी titles, with 10 million कॉल of ड्यूटी : elite उपयोक्ता and 2 लाख paying annual members.
Over 1.6 अरब hours of ऑनलाइन gameplay have महरूम logged आधुनिक warfare 3 चूंकि its 2011 रिलीज.
the एस्टेट tax in the United States is a कर imposed on the ट्रांसफ़र of the `` taxable estate `` of a deceased person, whether such प्रॉपर्टी is transferred via a होगा, according to the state कानून of intestacy or otherwise made as an घटना of the मौत of the owner, ऐसे as a ट्रांसफ़र of प्रॉपर्टी from an intestate एस्टेट or trust, or the payment of certain life insurance लाभ or financial खाता रकम to beneficiaries.
The एस्टेट कर is one part of the Unified Gift और एस्टेट कर प्रणाली in the United States.
The other भाग of the प्रणाली, the तोहफा कर, imposes a tax on हस्तांतरण of प्रॉपर्टी during a व्यक्ति 's जीवन ; the तोहफा कर prevents avoidance of the estate tax should a person want to दे दूर his/her एस्टेट.
in addition to the federal सरकारी, many states भी थोपने an estate कर, साथ the राज्य version called either an estate कर or an inheritance tax.
Opponents of the estate कर call it the `` मौत tax ''.
if an एसेट is left to a जीवनसाथी or a federally recognized charity, the tax usually does नहीं apply.
in जोड, up to $ 5,250,000 can be दिए by an व्यक्तिगत, पहले and/or upon उनके मौत, बगैर incurring federal gift or एस्टेट कर.
Gavin McGregor rossdale ( born 30 October 1967 ) is an English कर्ता और musician, known as the lead singer and rhythm guitarist of the चट्टान बैंड Bush.
Following Bush 's separation in 2002, which lasted for eight years, he was the lead singer and guitarist लिये संस्थान, and later began a solo career.
When performing सोलो, गेविन plays गीतों from his extensive musical libraries.
Rossdale has महरूम ranked in the शीर्ष 100 भारी Metal Vocalists by hit Parader ( # 75 ).
Raffaello Sanzio da urbino ( अप्रैल 6 or कूच 28, 1483 – April 6, 1520 ), better ज्ञात बस as Raphael, was an इतालवी painter and architect of the ऊँची Renaissance.
उसके कार्य is admired for its clarity of रूप and ease of composition और for its visual उपलब्धि of the Neoplatonic आदर्श of इंसान वैभव.
Together with michelangelo and लियोनार्डो da Vinci, he forms the traditional trinity of ग्रेट मास्टर्स of that काल.
राफेल थी enormously productive, running an unusually large कार्यशाला, और despite उसके death at 37, a विशाल body of उसके work remains.
Many of his works हैं found in the वेटिकन राजमहल, जहाँ the frescoed Raphael कक्ष यहूद the central, और the largest, कार्य of उसके career.
The best ज्ञात work is The School of एथेंस in the वेटिकन Stanza della Segnatura.
After his early सालो in रोम much of his work थी self-designed, लकिन लिये the most भाग चलाया by the workshop from उसके drawings, साथ considerable loss of quality.
he थी extremely influential in उसके आजीवन, हालांकि outside रोम his work was mostly known इससे his collaborative printmaking.
After his death, the influence of उसके great प्रतिद्वंद्वी michelangelo was more widespread जबतक the 18th and 19th सदियां, when राफेल 's अधिक निर्मल and harmonious qualities were again regarded as the उच्चतम models.
His करियर जलप्रपात naturally into three phases और तीन styles, first described by Giorgio Vasari : his early सालो in Umbria, then a काल of परिचय four years ( from 1504–1508 ) absorbing the artistic परंपराओं of Florence, followed by उसके पिछला hectic और triumphant बारह years in Rome, working for two Popes and उनके बंद associates.
Julia Fiona Roberts ( born अक्तूबर 28, 1967 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री.
She became a Hollywood star after headlining the रोमांटिक comedy Pretty Woman ( 1990 ), जिससे grossed $ 464 million worldwide.
बाद receiving Golden Globe पुरस्कार and Academy पुरस्कार nominations for Steel Magnolias ( 1989 ) और Pretty स्त्री, she won the अकादमी पुरस्कार for बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री for her performance in Erin Brockovich ( 2000 ).
उसके films The pelican Brief ( 1993 ), my बेहतरीन dost 's विवाह ( 1997 ), रहस्यवादी Pizza ( 1988 ), Notting हिल ( 1999 ), runaway बहू ( 1999 ), Ocean 's Eleven ( 2001 ), समंदर 's Twelve ( 2004 ), Charlie Wilson 's War ( 2007 ), Valentine 's Day ( 2010 ), Eat दुवा Love ( 2010 ), and दर्पण Mirror ( 2012 ) have collectively brought box office receipts of over $ 2.6 billion, बनाना her एक of the most successful actresses in शर्तें of box दफ्तर रसीदें.
Roberts था become one of the highest-paid actresses in the संसार, topping The Hollywood Reporters सालाना `` शक्ति सूची '' of top-earning female stars from 2005 to 2006.
उसके शुल्क for 1990 's pretty स्त्री was $ 300,000 ; in 2003, she was paid an unprecedented $ 25 million for her भूमिका in Mona लिसा मुस्कान ( 2003 ).
as of 2010, Roberts 's net worth थी estimated to be $ 140 लाख.
Roberts has been named one of People पत्रिका 's `` 50 सबसे Beautiful लोगों in the संसार '' eleven times, tied with हैल बेरी.
In 2011, she was named एक of the `` 100 Hottest महिलाओं of all-time '' by मेन 's Health.
In 2001, महिलाओं घर जर्नल ranked उसके as the 11th most शक्तिशाली woman in the United States.
चिह्नित Elliot zuckerberg ( born May 14, 1984 ) is an American कंप्यूटर programmer and Internet entrepreneur.
He is best ज्ञात as one of पाँच co-founders of the सोशल नेटवर्किंग जालस्थल Facebook.
As of April 2013, Zuckerberg is the chairman और chief executive of फेसबुक, Inc. और in 2013 his निजी माल was estimated to be US $ 13.3 अरब.
Together साथ उसके college roommates and fellow Harvard विश्वविद्यालयों विद्यार्थी Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz और क्रिस Hughes, Zuckerberg launched Facebook from Harvard 's dormitory कक्ष.
The समूह तब introduced फेसबुक onto other campuses देशभर और स्थानांतरित to पालो Alto, California, संयुक्त राज्य ( U.S. ) shortly afterwards.
In 2007, at the age of twenty-three years, Zuckerberg became a अरबपति as a result of Facebook और the क्रमांक of फेसबुक users worldwide reached a total of one अरब in 2012.
Zuckerberg was involved in विभिन्न विधिक विवादों that were initiated by others in the समूह, who claimed a share of the company based upon their भागीदारी during the development phase of Facebook.
चूंकि 2010, zuckerberg has been named among the 100 wealthiest और most influential people in the world by Time magazine as a part of its व्यक्ति of the साल accolade.
zuckerberg was निभाई by actor जेसी Eisenberg in the 2010 Hollywood film the सोशल संजाल in which the वृद्धि of फेसबुक is portrayed.
the Mayflower was the ship that in 1620 transported 102 English Pilgrims, including a कोर group of Separatists, to New इंग्लैण्ड.
Their story is एक of travail and अस्तित्व in a harsh New World environment.
framedthe
Committee of तरीके and Means is the मुख्य कर -writing committee of the United States House of प्रतिनिधि.
Members of the Ways और Means कमेटी हैं not allowed to serve on any other House समितियों unless वे लागू for a waiver from their party 's congressional नेतृत्व.
The कमेटी has jurisdiction over all taxation, tariffs and अन्य revenue-raising measures, as well as a क्रमांक of अन्य programs including:
सोशल सुरक्षा
Unemployment benefits
Medicare
Enforcement of child support laws
Temporary Assistance for Needy परिवारों, a संघीय welfare program
Foster care and adoption programs
The u.S. Constitution requires that सब bills regarding taxation जरूर originate in the House of Representatives.
Since House कार्यविधि is that all बिल्स regarding कराधान must go through this committee, the कमेटी is very influential, as is its सीनेट बंटवारा, the U.S. Senate कमेटी on Finance.
the Ways and Means कमेटी in the 111th कॉंग्रेस was chaired by Charlie Rangel, जो had taken a leave of absence as chairman जबतक House ethics उल्लंघनों were resolved.
However, his leave of absence as अध्यक्ष was शासित to be a इस्तीफा.
Pete Stark resigned as एक्टिंग chairman, so Sander Levin held that position until the प्रारंभ of the 112th कॉंग्रेस.
Dave शिविर became the कमेटी chair लिये the 112th कॉंग्रेस, after the republicans जीती control of the हाउस in the 2010 चुनाव.
The blue whale ( Balaenoptera musculus ) is a समुद्री mammal belonging to the suborder of baleen whales ( पुकारा Mysticeti ).
At in लंबाई and or more in वज़न, it is the largest known animal to have कभी existed.
long and slender, the blue व्हेल 's body can be various shades of bluish-grey dorsally and somewhat हल्का underneath.
There हैं at least three distinct subspecies : B. m. musculus of the North Atlantic और उत्तर प्रशांत, B. m. intermedia of the Southern Ocean और B. m. brevicauda ( also known as the सानो ब्लू whale ) found in the भारतीय Ocean and South Pacific Ocean.
B. m. indica, मिला in the Indian Ocean, may be another subspecies.
as साथ अन्य baleen whales, इसके diet consists almost exclusively of small crustaceans known as krill.
Blue whales were abundant in nearly all the महासागर on धरती जबतक the beginning of the twentieth सदी.
For over a century, they यहूद hunted लगभग to extinction by whalers until सुरक्षित by the international community in 1966.
A 2002 रपट estimated there were 5,000 to 12,000 blue whales worldwide, located in at तनिक five groups.
अधिक recent शोध into the Pygmy subspecies suggests this may be an underestimate.
Before whaling, the largest population was in the Antarctic, क्रमांकन approximately 239,000 ( range 202,000 to 311,000 ).
वहीँ remain तभी much smaller ( around 2,000 ) एकाग्रता in each of the eastern North प्रशांत, Antarctic, और भारतीय Ocean समूह.
वहीँ हैं दो more groups in the North अटलांटिक, और at least two in the दक्षिणी Hemisphere.
the ग्लोब artichoke ( Cynara cardunculus var. scolymus ) is a किस्में of a प्रजाति of thistle cultivated as a food.
The edible matter is कलियों that form भीतर the flower heads पहले the flowers come into खिलते.
the कलियों go दूर or change to a coarse, barely edible form when the flower blooms.
The uncultivated or जंगली किस्में of the species is called a cardoon.
it is a perennial संयंत्र देशी to the Mediterranean region.
The संयुक्त States one hundred-dollar bill ( $ 100 ) is a denomination of United States करेंसी.
u.S. statesman, inventor, और राजनयिक Benjamin Franklin is currently featured on the obverse of the विधेयक.
on the reverse of the banknote is an चित्र of Independence हॉल.
The $ 100 विधेयक is the largest denomination that has महरूम printed since July 13, 1969, when the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, और $ 10,000 were retired.
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the average जीवन of a $ 100 bill in परिसंचरण is 90 महीने ( 7.5 सालो ) before it is replaced due to wear और tear.
the बिल्स are भी commonly referred to as `` Benjamins '', in reference to the use of Benjamin Franklin 's portrait on the denomination, or `` C-Notes '', based on the Roman numeral लिये 100.
the bill is एक of दो denominations printed today कि does not feature a अध्यक्ष of the United States ; the other is the $ 10 विधेयक, featuring सिकंदर Hamilton.
the समय on the क्लॉक of स्वतंत्रता हॉल on the रिवर्स, according to the U.S. Bureau of Engraving और मुद्रण, shows approximately 4:10.
One hundred hundred-dollar bills हैं delivered by Federal आरक्षित Banks in mustard-colored straps ( $ 10,000 ).
the Series 2009 $ 100 विधेयक redesign was अनावरण on April 21, 2010, and थी to be issued to the public on February 11, 2011, but उत्पादन was shut bas in दिसम्बर 2010 क्युकी as अनेक as 30 % were अनुपयोगी due to a निर्माण flaw.
A vertical crease in the paper reveals a रिक्त स्पेस on the bill जब खींचा आउट.
In their बदलना, और continuing the ऊँची माँग of this denomination, the Series 2006A was शुभारम्भ retaining the previous design ( 1996-generation ).
on अप्रैल 24, 2013, the संघीय Reserve announced the नई $ 100 विधेयक would डालें circulation on October 8, 2013.
King दाउद in robes of a Byzantine सम्राट.
miniature इससे the पेरिस psalter.
David ( ; ISO 259-3 dawid ; ' ; Strong 's : daveed ) according to the यहूदी Bible, was the दूसरी king of the United किंगडम of इसराईल, and according to the New Testament gospels of मैथ्यू and Luke, an ancestor of Jesus.
His life is conventionally dated to c. 1040–970 BCE, his शासनकाल over यहूदा c. 1010–1002 BCE, और उसके reign over the United Kingdom of इसराईल c. 1002–970 BCE.
The Books of Samuel, 1 Kings, और 1 Chronicles हैं the तभी sources of information on David, although the tel Dan stele ( दिनाँक c. 850–835 bce ) contains the phrase ( bytdwd ), read as `` House of David '', जिससे most scholars take as confirmation of the अस्तित्व in the mid-9th century BCE of a Judean royal राजवंश called the हाउस of दाउद.
he is depicted as a righteous किंग, although नहीं बगैर त्रुटियां, as खूब as an acclaimed योद्धा, संगीतकार, और कवि, traditionally credited for composing many of the psalms contained in the Book of Psalms.
दाउद is सेंट्रल to Jewish, ईसाई, and Islamic doctrine and culture.
biblical परंपरा maintains that a direct वंशज of David होगा be the Messiah.
in Islam he is माना to be a नबी और the किंग of a nation.
Kathmandu ( ; ) is the capital and largest urban agglomerate of Nepal.
the agglomerate consists of काठमांडू महानगर City at its core, and its sister cities Patan, kirtipur, Thimi, and भक्तपुर.
It also includes the recently पहचाना शहरी क्षेत्रों of shankhapur, karyabinayak, और Champapur.
Banepa, Dhulikhel, and Panauti हैं उपग्रह urban areas of काठमांडू located just बाहर the काठमांडू valley.
काठमांडू is also known informally as `` KTM '' or the `` tri-city ''.
According to a census conducted in 2011, काठमांडू metropolis अलोन has 975,453 निवासियों ; और the agglomerate has a population of अधिक than 2.5 लाख inhabitants.
The metropolitan city area is और रै a population density of 19,250 प्रति km2.
the नगर स्टैंड at an elevation of approximately in the bowl-shaped Kathmandu Valley of central नेपाल.
it is surrounded by four major kyu : shivapuri, phulchoki, nagarjun, and चंद्रगिरि.
Kathmandu घाटी is भाग of तीन जिले ( काठमांडू, Lalitpur, और भक्तपुर ), रै the highest जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व in the देश, and is home to about a बारहवीं of Nepal 's population.
दौरान Rana and Shah eras, the name `` Nepal '' referred only to the काठमांडू Valley ; it was what people जो जिया outside the valley पुकारा it.
During इस period, British historians called the valley itself `` नेपाल Proper ''.
Today, Kathmandu is नहीं तभी the capital of the Federal लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of Nepal, लकिन also the मुख्यालय of the Central विकास Region of नेपाल.
the Central प्रदेश comprises तीन zones : bagmati, Narayani, और Janakpur.
Kathmandu is स्तिथ in the bagmati Zone.
Kathmandu is the गेटवे to tourism in Nepal.
it is also the तंत्रिका बीच of the country 's अर्थव्यवस्था.
It has the सबसे advanced अवसंरचना of any शहरी क्षेत्रफल in Nepal, और इसके economy is केन्द्रित on tourism, जिससे accounted for 3.8 % of Nepal 's GDP in 1995–96.
( Tourism in Kathmandu declined thereafter दौरान a period of political अशांति, but since then रै improved. )
The city रै a rich history, spanning nearly 2000 years, as inferred from inscriptions found in the valley.
धार्मिक and सांस्कृतिक festivities form a major भाग of the lives of people residing in काठमांडू.
Most of Kathmandu 's people follow हिंदुत्व और many others follow Buddhism.
वहीँ are लोगों of other religious beliefs as खूब, giving Kathmandu a cosmopolitan संस्कृति.
नेपाली is the सबसे commonly spoken भाषा in the city.
नेपाल Bhasa is the स्वदेशी भाषा spoken by the नेवार लोगों.
हिंदी is widely understood और अंग्रेज़ी is understood by Kathmandu 's शिक्षित निवासियों.
The नगर 's साक्षरता rate is 98 %.
काठमांडू 's सिस्टर cities ( Lalitpur patan ) and Bhaktapur are अभिन्न to Kathmandu 's cultural विरासत, पर्यटन उद्योग, और economy ; इसलिए युनेस्को 's World विरासत Site lists सब three cities ' monuments और attractions साथ under one heading, `` Kathmandu valley- UNESCO World विरासत Site ``.
फ़ील्ड हॉकी, usually referred to बस as hockey, is a टोली sport of the hockey परिवार which is played between two टीमों of eleven players साथ hockey sticks and a hard, ठोस प्लास्टिक ball.
At the turn of the 21st सदी, the खेल is played globally, with particular popularity throughout Europe, एशिया, Oceania, और South America – in addition to being the national sport of Pakistan and इण्डिया.
the पद `` फ़ील्ड hockey '' is प्रयुक्त primarily in Canada, the United States, और अन्य regions of the world where the sport of बर्फ hockey is more लोकप्रिय.
दौरान खेल, goal keepers are the तभी खिलाड़ी who हैं allowed to touch the बॉल with any part of their body ( साथ the एक्सेप्शन of a player 's hand considered 'part of the stick ' ), साथ this तभी applying within the शूटिंग circle ( भी known as the d, or shooting चाप, or just the circle ), जबकि फ़ील्ड खिलाड़ी play the ball with the चपटा पक्ष of उनके स्टिक.
the टोली कि स्कोर the most goals by the समाप्त of the match विन्स.
if the score is tied at the end of the खेल, either a draw is declared or the game goes into अतिरिक्त time and/or a penalty shootout, depending on the competition 's format.
the शासी body of हॉकी is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Hockey Federation ( fih ), साथ men and women being represented internationally in प्रतियोगिताओं including the Olympic खेल, Commonwealth games, हॉकी संसार कप, Champions ट्रॉफी और Junior Hockey संसार कप, साथ अनेक countries कार्यशील extensive जूनियर, वरिष्ठ, और masters ' क्लबों competitions.
The fih is also responsible लिये organising the हॉकी नियम फलक और विकासशील the rules लिये the खेल.
a लोकप्रिय variant of फ़ील्ड hockey is अंदर हॉकी, जिससे differs in a number of respects while मूर्त the primary सिद्धान्त of हॉकी.
अंदर हॉकी is a 6-a-side variant, साथ a फ़ील्ड जिससे is घटाया to approximately 40m × 20m.
साथ many of the rules remaining the same, सहित रुकावट और feet, वहीँ हैं several कुंजी variations - Players may नहीं raise the बॉल unless shooting on goal, players may not hit the ball ( instead utilising pushes to transfer the ball ), और the sidelines हैं replaced साथ ठोस बाधाओं which the बॉल will rebound बंद.
Ethan `` cane '' ashby ( né Atkinson ) is a fictional character from the American सीबीएस साबुन opera The Young and the Restless.
he is portrayed by ऑस्ट्रेलियाई actor Daniel गोडार्ड, जो originally auditioned लिये Brad Snyder on As the संसार turns but थी अनुशंसित for a role on The Young और the बेचैन बजाय.
The भूमिका was to be portrayed as an अमरीकी, लकिन गोडार्ड 's Australian descent influenced the character 's पृष्ठभूमि.
Former सिर writer Lynn Marie Latham introduced him दौरान the एपीसोड airing on जनवरी 12, 2007 as an ऑस्ट्रेलियाई बारटेंडर in ढूंढें of his परिवार, a debut कि received a mixed जवाब.
लैथम निर्मित Cane as the बेटे of फिलिप Chancellor II ( Donnelly Rhodes ) and Jill Foster Abbott ( जेस वाल्टन ) but the अक्षर 's background थी rewritten by Maria Arena घंटी in 2009, reestablishing him as the बेटे of Colin and Genevieve Atkinson ( Tristan Rogers and जिनी फ्रांसिस ).
हालांकि characterized as `` mysterious '', cane is `` वफ़ादार and समर्पित '', जबकि गोडार्ड described the अक्षर as a `` typical ऑस्ट्रेलियाई, working-class kind of guy ''.
He थी the first सदस्य of the Atkinson family to appear on the श्रेणी, followed by उसके parents and identical twin brother.
Soon after उसके debut, he became a leading अक्षर, a decision praised by दर्शक और critics.
The character has been involved साथ एम्बर Moore ( Adrienne Frantz ), क्लो मिशेल ( एलिज़ाबेथ Hendrickson ) and most notably लिली Winters ( Christel Khalil ), a romance कि garnered significant fan attention.
in 2009, Cane and Lily were married ; वैश्विक bc would later call Lily the love of cane 's जीवन.
The pair had दो children, Charlie and mattie Ashby.
In 2011, the actor थी fired, and cane थी शॉट to मौत onscreen.
however, गोडार्ड थी rehired जल्द बाद viewers campaigned for his वापसी, revealing that Cane 's एकसमान जुड़वा brother was in fact the man who died.
This कुर्बान उसके marriage to लिली, but the couple यहूद remarried on वेलेंटाइन 's दिन in 2012.
Goddard has been widely acclaimed for his portrayal ; Canyon News कहा that he portrays the अक्षर honestly, and is `` always dependable, on आग और exciting ''.
John Christopher `` Johnny '' Depp ii ( born June 9, 1963 ) is an American कर्ता, फिल्मी producer, and musician.
he has जीती the Golden ग्लोब पुरस्कार और स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड award for Best कर्ता.
Depp रोज़ to prominence on the 1980s टेलीविज़न श्रेणी 21 Jump गली, becoming a टीन idol.
Dissatisfied साथ कि औकात, Depp turned to फिल्मी लिये अधिक चुनौतीपूर्ण roles ; he played the शीर्षक अक्षर of the acclaimed एडवर्ड Scissorhands ( 1990 ) और बाद मिला box दफ्तर success in films such as Sleepy खोखला ( 1999 ), चार्ली और the चॉकलेट Factory ( 2005 ), ऐलिस in Wonderland ( 2010 ), Rango ( 2011 ) और the Pirates of the Caribbean film श्रेणी ( 2003–present ).
he रै collaborated with निदेशक और friend Tim बर्टन in आठ films ; the most हाल होने अंधेरा साए ( 2012 ).
डेप रै gained acclaim लिये his portrayals of such people as Ed Wood in Ed लकडी, जोसेफ D. Pistone in Donnie Brasco, शिकारी S. Thompson in Fear and loathing in Las Vegas, जार्ज Jung in Blow, and the बैंको डाकू John dillinger in माइकल मन 's पब्लिक दुश्मनों.
Films featuring Depp have grossed over $ 3.1 billion at the United राज्य बक्सा office और over $ 7.6 billion worldwide.
He has महरूम मनोनीत लिये शीर्ष awards अनेक times, winning the Best कर्ता पुरस्कार from the Golden –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy Globes –_Motion_Picture_Musical_or_Comedy for स्वीनी Todd : The Demon नाई of बेड़े गली and इससे the Screen अभिनेताओं Guild for Pirates of the Caribbean : the अभिशाप of the ब्लैक Pearl.
He also रै garnered a sex symbol status in American cinema, being twice नामित as the `` Sexiest man जिंदा `` by लोगों पत्रिका in 2003 और 2009.
He has been listed in the 2012 Guinness Book of World Records as the highest सशुल्क actor, with $ 75 million.
the World Wide Web ( abbreviated as www or W3, commonly known as the वेब ), is a system of interlinked hypertext documents पहुँचा via the Internet.
साथ a वेब ब्राउजर, एक can view web pages कि may contain text, images, वीडियो, और अन्य multimedia, and navigate between उन्हें via hyperlinks.
using concepts from उसके पहले हाइपरटेक्स्ट systems like enquire, British engineer, computer वैज्ञानिक और at कि time employee of the CERN, Sir टिम Berners-Lee, now Director of the World चौड़ी वेब Consortium ( w3c ), लिखा a प्रस्ताव in March 1989 for what would eventually become the World चौड़ी वेब.
At cern, a European शोध organisation near जेनेवा straddling the किनारा between France और स्विट्ज़रलैंड, berners-lee and belgian computer scientist Robert cailliau proposed in 1990 to use हाइपरटेक्स्ट `` to link and अभिगम सूचना of various kinds as a वेब of नोड in जिससे the user can browse at will '', और they सरेआम introduced the project in December of the same year.
चिह्नित Travis John Sanchez ( born November 11, 1986 ) is an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक for the नई York Jets of the National Football League ( एनएफएल ).
He थी drafted in the first round of the 2009 NFL Draft as the fifth overall चयन by the Jets and the second quarterback लिया overall.
He निभाई कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल at the University of Southern California ( यूएससी ).
Sanchez grew up in a well-disciplined and athletic family.
In the eighth grade, he began to play football और learn the intricacies of the quarterback स्थिति, training साथ his father, उपनाम.
a well-regarded prospect, Sanchez वचनबद्ध to Southern California following उसके कामयाब high school करियर in which he led his team to a championship title during his फाइनल season.
at यूएससी, Sanchez was relegated as the बैकअप क्वार्टरबैक during his पहला three years हालांकि he rose to prominence due to उसके ब्रैड दिखावे on the field in 2007 due to injuries suffered by starting quarterback जॉन David Booty.
Sanchez also became लोकप्रिय within the community due to his mexican-american विरासत.
नामित the प्रारंभ in 2008, Sanchez led यूएससी to a 12–1 record and won the Rose Bowl against Penn State for जिससे Sanchez थी awarded the सबसे Valuable Player award for his प्रदर्शन on ठोकर.
हालांकि many माना him too inexperienced, Sanchez announced his intention to enter the 2009 NFL Draft.
He was चयनित by the Jets after वे traded up with the क्लीवलैंड Browns, and थी named the starting quarterback prior to the start of the season.
despite a subpar performance, Sanchez led the jets to the AFC Championship खेल, a खोने effort to the इंडियानापोलिस Colts, becoming the चौथी rookie क्वार्टरबैक in एनएफएल history to win his पहला playoff game and the second to जीत दो playoff खेल.
in his second season, सांचेज़ continued to develop और led the Jets to the playoffs and the team 's second लगातार AFC Championship Game जहाँ वे narrowly खोया to the पिट्सबर्ग Steelers, 24–19.
With the win over the नई England देशप्रेमी the week prior, Sanchez tied four अन्य quarterbacks for the दूसरी most post-season road victories by a quarterback in एनएफएल इतिहास.
In leading the jets to two लगातार conference championships, Sanchez joined quarterback बेन roethlisberger as the only two quarterbacks in एनएफएल history to पहुँचें the सम्मेलन championship in उनके first दो seasons in the league.
The next दो सीज़न would be a regression for both the team और सांचेज़ as they failed to पहुँचें the playoffs.
Fans और media critics called for a struggling सांचेज़ to be benched.
he eventually थी replaced towards the समाप्त of the 2012 season साथ Greg McElroy.
Paul Avery ( April 2, 1934December 10, 2000 ) थी an अमरीकी पुलिस reporter, best known for his stories on the infamous सीरियल killer known as the zodiac, and बाद लिये his work on the पेट्रीसिया Hearst kidnapping.
A छोटी submersible ac sump pump साथ a गार्डन hose connector
A sump पंप is a pump used to remove water कि has संचित in a जल collecting sump जलाशय, commonly found in the तहखाने of homes.
the जल may enter via the perimeter नालों of a तहखाने waterproofing प्रणाली, funneling into the basin or because of rain or प्राकृतिक ground जल, if the basement is नीचे the water तालिका level.
sump पंपों are प्रयुक्त where basement बाढ़ happens regularly और to उपाय dampness where the water table is above the न्यास of a घर.
sump पंपों भेजें water दूर from a house to कोई place जहाँ it is no longer समस्यापूर्ण, such as a नगरपालिका storm नाली or a dry खूब.
Pumps may discharge to the sanitary सीवर in older installations.
Once considered acceptable, this अभ्यास may अभी violate the plumbing कोड or municipal bylaws, because it can overwhelm the municipal sewage उपचार system.
municipalities urge homeowners to disconnect और reroute sump pump निर्वहन away from sanitary sewers.
जुर्माना may be imposed लिये noncompliance.
Many homeowners have inherited उनके sump pump configurations और do not एहसास कि the pump discharges to the सीवर.
if the निर्वहन is fed to a laundry डूबना in the तहखाने, it 's संभावित going to the sewer.
प्रायः hardwired into a home 's electrical system, sump पंपों may have a battery backup.
the घर 's pressurized water supply शक्तियां some pumps, eliminating the need लिये विद्युत at the व्यय of using potable water, potentially making उन्हें more महंगी to operate than electrical pumps and बनाना an additional water disposal problem.
चूंकि a sump basin may अतिप्रवाह if not constantly उत्तेजित, a बैकअप प्रणाली is important for मामले when the प्रमुख शक्ति is आउट for prolonged अवधि of time, as during a severe तूफ़ान.
वहीँ हैं generally two प्रकार of sump पंपों — pedestal and submersible.
The pedestal पंप 's motor is mounted above the sump, जहाँ it is more easily serviced, लकिन is भी अधिक conspicuous.
the pump impeller is driven by a long, लंबवत extension शाफ्ट and the impeller is in a scroll आवास in the आधार of the pump.
The submersible pump is entirely mounted inside the sump, और is specially sealed to prevent electrical short circuits.
Sump pump systems are also utilized in industrial और commercial applications to control जल table -सुनानाd समस्याएं in surface soil.
An artesian aquifer or आवधिक high जल table situation can cause the मैदान to become unstable due to water saturation.
As long as the पंप कृत्यों, the सतह मृदा होगा remain stable.
ये sumps are typically ten feet in गहराई or more ; lined with corrugated metal पाइप कि contains perforations or नाली holes throughout.
They may शामिल electronic control systems साथ visual and audible सचेतक and are प्रायः covered to prevent debris and पशु इससे गिरना in.
Bleeding कान्सास, Bloody Kansas or the Border युद्ध, was a श्रेणी of हिंसक राजनैतिक confrontations involving anti-slavery Free-Staters and pro-slavery `` Border ruffian `` elements, कि took place in the कान्सास territory and the neighboring कस्बों of Missouri between 1854 and 1861.
At the heart of the विरोध was the question of whether Kansas would डालें the Union as a फ़्री state or slave राज्य.
As ऐसे, Bleeding Kansas थी a proxy युद्ध between Northerners and Southerners over the issue of slavery in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The पद `` Bleeding Kansas '' was coined by होरेस Greeley of the नई यॉर्क ट्रिब्यून ; the कार्यक्रम it encompasses सीधे presaged the अमरीकी Civil War.
Congress had long struggled to balance the interests of pro-slavery forces और anti-slavery forces.
the events later known as bleeding कान्सास यहूद set into motion by the Kansas–Nebraska Act of 1854, which nullified the मिसौरी सुलह और बजाय implemented the अवधारणा of popular sovereignty.
An ostensibly लोकतांत्रिक विचार, popular sovereignty stated that the inhabitants of each territory or state should decide whether it होता be a free or slave राज्य ; however, इस resulted in immigration en masse to Kansas by कार्यकर्ताओं इससे both पहलू.
At one point, Kansas had two पृथक governments, each with इसके own संविधान, हालांकि only one was federally recognized.
On January 29, 1861, Kansas was admitted to the Union as a फ़्री state, कम than तीन महीने before the Battle of Fort Sumter जिससे began the Civil War.
Benzene is an organic chemical यौगिक साथ the आणविक formula c6 H|Hydrogen|H6.
Its अणु is composed of 6 कार्बन atoms joined in a रिंग, साथ 1 हाइड्रोजन atom attached to each carbon atom.
Because its अणुओं contain only कार्बन and हाइड्रोजन atoms, benzene is classed as a hydrocarbon.
Benzene is a प्राकृतिक constituent of crude आयल, और is one of the most basic petrochemicals.
बेंजीन is an aromatic हाइड्रोकार्बन और the दूसरी [ n ] - annulene ( [ 6 ] -annulene ), a चक्रीय hydrocarbon with a निरन्तर pi bond.
It is sometimes abbreviated Ph –H. Benzene is a colorless and highly flammable द्रव with a sweet smell.
It is mainly used as a precursor to heavy रसायन, such as ethylbenzene और cumene, जिससे हैं produced on a अरब kilogram scale.
Because it has a high ऑक्टेन number, it is an महत्वपूर्ण घटक of गैसोलीन, composing a few percent of its mass.
Most non-industrial applications have been limited by benzene 's carcinogenicity.
Giovanni Virginio Schiaparelli ( ; 14 March 1835 – 4 July 1910 ) थी an Italian astronomer and science इतिहासकार.
Wii homebrew refers to the reuse of Nintendo 's वी खेल console to चलाएं software कि रै not महरूम प्राधिकृत by निन्टेंडो.
it achieves this by defeating the Wii 's नक़ल protection and code हस्ताक्षर measures.
in अधिक general terms, Wii homebrew refers to the उपयोग of the Wii 's हार्डवेयर, accessories and तन्त्र for purposes outside those intended by the निर्माता.
असली efforts focused on using the Wii रिमोट as a इंगित यंत्र on other ऑपरेटिंग systems, or कार्यशील web-based खेल in the built-in वेब browser.
Subsequent developments in खेल exploits, such as the `` गोधूलि हैक ``, `` Bannerbomb '' and इसके later अवतार `` LetterBomb '', `` Smash स्टेक '', `` Indiana pwns '', `` Yu-Gi-OWNED '', `` bathaxx '', and `` Return of the jodi '', made installing the `` homebrew Channel `` संभावित.
हैडली ( right ) discussing the 2006 Israel-Lebanon संकट with Bush and Rice.
Stephen जॉन हैडली ( born फ़रवरी 13, 1947 ) थी the 21st U.S. सहायक to the President for National Security अफेयर्स ( commonly referred as National Security Advisor ), सेवारत अंतर्गत President जार्ज W. Bush.
Take एकसमान growing plants and दे fertilizer to हाफ of उन्हें.
If there are differences between the निषेचित plant group और the unfertilized `` कंट्रोल '' समूह, ये differences may be due to the fertilizer.
a scientific कंट्रोल is an प्रयोग or observation designed to minimize the effects of variables other than the सिंगल independent परिवर्तनीय.
This increases the reliability of the results, प्रायः through a comparison between control measurements and the other measurements.
Scientific controls हैं a भाग of the scientific method.
For example, during drug testing, वैज्ञानिकों होगा try to control two groups to रखना उन्हें as identical as possible, then allow one group to try the ड्रग.
another उदाहरण might be testing संयंत्र उर्वरक by giving it to तभी हाफ the plants in a गार्डन : the पौधे कि प्राप्त no उर्वरक are the कंट्रोल समूह, क्युकी they establish the baseline level of growth that the fertilizer-treated पौधे will be compared विरूद्ध.
Without a control group, the experiment can not determine whether the fertilizer-treated plants grow more than they would have if untreated.
ideally, all variables in an प्रयोग होगा be controlled ( accounted for by the कंट्रोल माप ) and none होगा be uncontrolled.
in such an experiment, if सब the नियंत्रण work as expected, it is possible to conclude that the प्रयोग is working as intended और that the परिणाम of the प्रयोग हैं due to the प्रभाव of the variable होने tested.
कि is, वैज्ञानिक controls allow an investigator to make a अर्जी like `` दो परिस्थितियों यहूद identical until factor x occurred.
Since फ़ैक्टर X is the तभी difference between the two परिस्थितियों, the new outcome was caused by factor X. ''
< < रासायनिक elements आंकड़ा सन्दर्भ
John Adams ( October 30, 1735 ( O.S. अक्तूबर 19, 1735 ) – July 4, 1826 ) was the दूसरी अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States ( 1797–1801 ), having earlier served as the first vice president of the संयुक्त States.
an अमरीकी founding Father, he थी a statesman, राजनयिक, and a अग्रणी advocate of American स्वतंत्रता from Great Britain.
Well शिक्षित, he was an Enlightenment राजनैतिक theorist who promoted republicanism and wrote prolifically परिचय उसके often seminal ideas, both in प्रकाशित works and in अक्षर to his wife और key adviser अबीगैल as well as to other Founding Fathers.
Adams आए to prominence in the early stages of the American Revolution.
A lawyer और पब्लिक figure in बोस्टन, as a delegate from मैसाचुसेट्स to the Continental Congress, he played a अग्रणी भूमिका in persuading कॉंग्रेस to declare independence.
he assisted Thomas जेफरसन in drafting the Declaration of Independence in 1776, और was इसके प्राथमिक एडवोकेट in the Congress.
Later, as a diplomat in Europe, he helped negotiate the eventual peace सन्धि with Great Britain, and was responsible लिये obtaining vital governmental लोन from एम्सटर्डम बैंकर्स.
a राजनैतिक theorist and इतिहासकार, Adams largely लिखा the मैसाचुसेट्स Constitution in 1780, which साथ साथ his earlier विचार on सरकारी, influenced अमरीकी राजनैतिक विचार.
एक of his greatest roles थी as a judge of character : in 1775, he nominated जार्ज Washington to be commander-in-chief, and 25 सालो बाद nominated John Marshall to be मुख्य Justice of the संयुक्त राज्य.
एडम्स ' revolutionary credentials secured him two शर्तें as George Washington 's vice president और उसके own election in 1796 as the second president.
During his one term, he encountered ferocious attacks by the jeffersonian republicans, as खूब as the dominant faction in his own federalist पार्टी led by उसके bitter enemy सिकंदर Hamilton.
एडम्स signed the controversial एलियन और Sedition Acts, and निर्मित up the army and navy especially in the face of an undeclared नवल war ( called the `` quasi-war `` ) with फ़्रांस, 1798–1800.
The major accomplishment of his presidency was his peaceful resolution of the विरोध in the फेस of Hamilton 's विपक्ष.
In 1800, एडम्स was defeated लिये re-election by Thomas Jefferson और रिटायर्ड to Massachusetts.
He later resumed उसके दोस्ती साथ Jefferson.
he और his wife, अबीगैल Adams, founded an accomplished परिवार लकीर of politicians, राजनयिकों, और historians अभी referred to as the एडम्स राजनैतिक परिवार.
एडम्स थी the father of जॉन Quincy एडम्स, the छठे President of the United राज्य.
His achievements have प्राप्त greater recognition in modern times, हालांकि उसके contributions were not initially as celebrated as those of other संस्थापकों.
एडम्स was the first U.S. अध्यक्ष to reside in the building that eventually became known as the श्वेत हाउस.
a Watt भाप engine.
The भाप engine, fuelled primarily by coal, propelled the Industrial क्रान्ति in ग्रेट Britain and the संसार.
The Industrial Revolution was the परिवर्तन to नई निर्माण processes कि occurred in the काल इससे about 1760 to कुछ समय between 1820 and 1840.
This परिवर्तन included going from हाथ production methods to machines, नई chemical manufacturing और iron उत्पादन processes, improved दक्षता of जल power, the increasing use of steam power और development of यंत्र tools.
The transition also included the बदलें from wood and other bio-fuels to coal.
The Industrial revolution began in Britain and within a few decades spread to Western Europe and the United States.
the Industrial क्रान्ति marks a major turning पाइंट in history ; लगभग every पहलू of रोज़ life थी influenced in कुछ way.
Most notably, average income and जनसांख्यिकी began to प्रदर्शनी unprecedented sustained विकास.
in the words of नोबेल Prize winner रॉबर्ट E. लुकास, Jr., `` लिये the पहला समय in इतिहास, the living standards of the masses of ordinary people have begun to undergo sustained growth... nothing remotely जैसे this economic behavior is mentioned by the शास्त्रीय अर्थशास्त्रियों, even as a सैद्धांतिक possibility. ''
William Bell Scott आयरन और कोयले, 1855-60
The period of समय covered by the औद्योगिक Revolution varies with अलग इतिहासकारों.
eric hobsbawm held कि it 'broke out ' in Britain in the 1780s और was not fully लगा until the 1830s or 1840s, while T. S. Ashton आयोजित that it occurred roughly between 1760 and 1830.
Some 20th-century historians such as जॉन clapham and Nicholas Crafts have argued कि the प्रक्रम of economic and social change took प्लेस gradually और the term revolution is a misnomer.
इस is still a विषय of बहस among historians.
जीडीपी प्रति capita थी broadly stable पहले the औद्योगिक Revolution and the emergence of the आधुनिक capitalist economy.
The औद्योगिक क्रान्ति began an era of per-capita economic growth in capitalist economies.
आर्थिक इतिहासकारों are in agreement कि the onset of the Industrial क्रान्ति is the most महत्वपूर्ण event in the history of मानवता since the domestication of animals and पौधे.
the First Industrial Revolution evolved into the दूसरी Industrial Revolution in the transition years between 1840 और 1870, when technological and economic progress gained momentum साथ the increasing अपनाना of steam-powered boats, जहाजों and रेल, the विशाल स्केल manufacture of machine टूल्स and the increasing use of steam powered कारखानों.
जूलियट annmarie huddy ( born सितंबर 27, 1969 ), is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न न्यूज reporter, currently appearing on Fox News चैनल.
This सूची बाँधने U.S. cities by land area ( not including bodies of water ).
Total क्षेत्रों ( सहित जल ) are also दिए, लकिन नोट कि, when ranked by कुल area, a number of तटीय cities appear disproportionately `` larger ''.
सैन Francisco is an चरम example ; water makes up nearly 80 % of इसके कुल area of 232 वर्गाकार miles ( 601 km2 ).
नोट भी that in many cases a नगर may be geographically विशाल primarily because its municipal government रै merged with the government of the surrounding काउंटी.
in some cases the काउंटी no longer exists, जबकि in अन्य the arrangement has formed a संचित city–county ( or city- बरो in अलास्का, or city- मोहल्ला in Louisiana ).
These हैं दिखाया in bold in the list नीचे ( but not सब examples may be indicated ).
** These हैं independent शहरों, अर्थ they are नहीं a भाग of कोई काउंटी.
The large आंत ( or bowel, कोलन ) is the last भाग of the digestive system in vertebrate पशु.
Its फलन is to absorb water from the remaining indigestible food matter, and तब to pass useless waste सामग्री from the body.
This article is primarily परिचय the इंसान gut, हालांकि the सूचना परिचय its processes are directly applicable to most स्तनधारियों.
the विशाल intestine consists of the cecum, rectum and anal कनाल.
It starts in the right iliac प्रदेश of the pelvis, बस at or नीचे the सही waist, जहाँ it is joined to the नीचे समाप्त of the small intestine.
इससे here it continues up the उदर, तब आरपार the चौडाई of the abdominal cavity, and then it turns bas, continuing to इसके endpoint at the anus.
the large intestine is परिचय long, जिससे is about one-fifth of the whole length of the intestinal कनाल.
In terminologia Anatomica the विशाल intestine includes the cecum, colon, मलाशय, and गुदा कनाल.
However, some स्त्रोत exclude the anal कनाल.
the ग्रीन Bay Packers हैं an American फ़ुटबॉल team आधारित in Green खाड़ी, Wisconsin.
वे are सदस्यों of the North प्रभाग of the National फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( NFC ) in the National फ़ुटबॉल League ( एनएफएल ).
Green खाड़ी is the third-oldest मताधिकार in the NFL, having महरूम व्यवस्थित and playing in 1919.
The Packers हैं the only non-profit, community-owned प्रमुख लीग professional खेल टोली in the संयुक्त States.
The पैकर्स are the last vestige of `` छोटी town teams '' that were एकबार आम in the एनएफएल during the 1920s and 1930s.
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name lambeau Field on जिससे the team plays ) और George व्हिटनी Calhoun, the Green खाड़ी Packers can trace उनके lineage to other semi-professional teams in Green Bay dating वापस to 1896.
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers competed as a semi-professional फ़ुटबॉल टोली विरूद्ध clubs इससे around Wisconsin and the Midwest.
They joined the American पेशेवर Football संघ ( APFA ) in 1921, the forerunner to कया is known today as the नेशनल Football League ( NFL ).
Although Green खाड़ी is the पिछला NFL `` small town '' team, its local fan base और मीडिया extends into nearby मिल्वौकी ; the team also played चयनित home खेल there between 1933 and 1994.
The Green Bay Packers have जीती 13 league championships ( more than any अन्य team in the एनएफएल ), including nine NFL championships prior to the Super कटोरी era and चार Super कटोरी victories —in 1967 ( Super Bowl I ), 1968 ( Super कटोरी ii ), 1997 ( Super Bowl XXXI ) and 2011 ( सुपर Bowl XLV ).
The Packers have long-standing, कड़वा rivalries साथ उनके NFC North ( formerly the nfc Central ) opponents, the Chicago bears, मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स और the Detroit शेर.
the bears-packers rivalry is one of the oldest rivalries in NFL history, dating back to 1921.
the सैन Fernando Valley ( locally known as `` The घाटी '' ) is an urbanized valley located in the लॉस एंजिल्स महानगर क्षेत्रफल of दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया, संयुक्त States, पारिभाषित by the kyu of the Transverse सीमाएँ घूमना it.
Home to 1.76 million लोगों, it झूठ north of the larger and more populous लॉस Angeles Basin.
Nearly दो तिहाई of the घाटी 's land area is भाग of the नगर of Los Angeles.
the other incorporated cities in the घाटी are ग्लेनडेल, burbank, San फर्नांडो, छुपा Hills और calabasas.
San Fernando Valley, Los Angeles
the exterior of the वर्तमान World of coca-cola at pemberton Place.
The World of Coca-Cola, is a स्थाई exhibition featuring the इतिहास of The coca-cola कम्पनी.
Its well-known advertising as खूब as a मेजबान of entertainment areas और आकर्षण, और is स्तिथ in Atlanta, Georgia ( where the कम्पनी 's मुख्यालय are located ) at Pemberton Place ( नामित in honor of John pemberton, the आविष्कारक of Coca-Cola ).
as part of जॉर्जिया 's museums.
the जटिल located across Baker Street इससे Centennial ओलम्पिक पार्क कि is home to the जॉर्जिया Aquarium and future बीच for सिविल & Human अधिकारों.
It opened to the पब्लिक on May 24, 2007, relocating from and replacing the असली प्रदर्शनी.
Pretties is a 2005 science fiction अनोखा and the दूसरी किताब of the uglies Trilogy written by Scott Westerfeld.
It is नियत in a भविष्य dystopian संसार in which everyone is turned `` pretty '' by extreme cosmetic सर्जरी upon reaching age 16.
It tells the story of teenager Tally Youngblood who rebels against समाज 's enforced conformity.
Susan leigh Vaughan स्मिथ ( born सितंबर 26, 1971 ) is an अमरीकी woman sentenced to life in थाना for murdering her children.
Born in Union, South Carolina, and a former छात्र of the विश्वविद्यालयों of South Carolina संघ, she was convicted on July 22, 1995 लिये murdering उसके two बेटे, 3-year-old माइकल डेनियल Smith, born October 10, 1991, and 14-month-old Alexander Tyler स्मिथ, born अगस्त 5, 1993.
The case gained worldwide ध्यान shortly after it developed, due to उसके claiming कि a ब्लैक man चुराया her car और kidnapped उसके sons.
वो later claimed that वो suffered इससे दिमागी health issues कि impaired उसके निर्णय.
according to the दक्षिण कैरोलिना विभाग of Corrections, Smith होगा be eligible for parole on November 4, 2024, after serving a न्यूनतम of thirty years.
She is incarcerated at South Carolina 's Leath Correctional संस्था, near Greenwood.
Mount McKinley ( also ज्ञात as denali taken from the इनुइट koyukon athabaskan language अर्थ `` The Great एक '' ) is the उच्चतम mountain शिखर in the संयुक्त States और in North America with a summit उन्नयन of above sea level.
At कुछ, the base to peak rise is considered the largest of any पहाड़ situated entirely ऊपर sea level.
Measured by topographic prominence, it is the third most prominent peak after Mount Everest और अकोंकागुआ.
Located in the Alaska Range in the आंतरिक of US state of Alaska, it is the centerpiece of denali National Park और बचाना.
The first European to document sighting the mountain was George Vancouver in 1794.
In 1903, James wickersham अंकित the पहला attempt at चढ़ाई McKinley जिससे was unsuccessful.
in 1906, फ्रेडरिक Cook claimed the first ascent which was later proven to be गलत.
The first verifiable ascent to mckinley 's समिट थी हासिल on June 7, 1913 by climbers Hudson stuck, हैरी karstens, वाल्टर Harper, और Robert Tatum.
in 1951, Bradford washburn pioneered the वेस्ट buttress route considered to be the safest और easiest रूट and इसलिए the most popular currently in उपयोग.
The Honda S600 is an ऑटोमोबाइल manufactured by Honda.
It थी launched in March 1964.
Available as a roadster – bearing strong प्रतिरूप to the Honda S500 – and as a fastback coupé – introduced in कूच 1965 – the S600 was the पहला Honda available in two trim levels.
During its उत्पादन run up to 1966, the मॉडल styling होता remain pretty much the same, with the most notable परिवर्तन coming to the सामने grille, bumper, and headlights.
Powered by a dohc, water-cooled, four-cylinder inline इंजन साथ चार carburetors, the engine capacity was increased to 606 cc इससे the S500 's 531 cc.
The इंजन उत्पादित at 8,500 rpm and had a शीर्ष speed of.
साथ the convertible weighing in at mere, the अतिरिक्त चादर metal of the कूप तभी added to the overall वज़न.
बर्खास्तगी was स्वतंत्र with sealed रोलर chain drive to each पश्च wheel.
The s600 was the first द्रव्यमान marketed होंडा car.
First offered तभी in right-hand drive, it soon became उपलब्धियाँ in left-hand ड्राइव to appeal to export markets.
वहीँ यहूद a few pre-production S500s manufactured in बाएँ hand drive, दो or तीन भी होने दिखाया in some early sales brochures.
दोनो the s600 roadster और coupé were available in standard trim and a special, upgraded पैकेज पुकारा the SM600 which शामिल, among other items, special पेंट colors, exclusive badging, a मानक रेडियो और speaker, a खास antenna in the passenger side sun visor, standard reversing lights, a मानक सिगरेट lighter, a standard हीटर, better cushioned seats, and a detachable सीट track for जल्दी removal of the यात्री seat.
Honda निर्मित 3,912 roadsters in 1964, with production climbing to 7,261 convertibles और 1,519 coupes in 1965.
Production dropped off in 1966 ( as वे were shifting to the S800 ) साथ only 111 roadsters and 281 coupes, giving tallies of 11,284 convertibles और 1,800 coupes लिये the 3 year span.
Everybody hates Chris is an American टेलीविज़न काल sitcom that depicts the teenage experiences of comedian Chris चट्टान ( जो is भी the narrator ) जबकि growing up in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of ब्रुकलीन, नई York.
the दिखाएँ is नियत between 1983 and 1987 ; however, Rock himself थी a teenager between 1978 and 1983.
Rock grew up with a boy named केनी montero, whom he रै often referred to as the प्रेरणा for a lot of the episodes.
in अनेक interviews, चट्टान रै described केनी as the कारण he मिला into comedy in the पहला place.
The show 's title parodies the CBS sitcom everybody Loves रेमंड.
Rock stated : `` Everybody Loves Raymond but Everybody Hates Chris ! ``.
The show 's lead actors are टायलर जेम्स Williams, टेरी Crews, Tichina Arnold, tequan Richmond, Imani हकीम, and Vincent martella.
in Fall 2008, the the cw स्थानांतरित Everybody Hates Chris and The खेल to the शुक्रवार रात्रि death slot.
the fourth ऋतु of the series premiered शुक्रवार, October 3, 2008, at 8:00PM Eastern/7:00PM Central.
on May 21, 2009, The CW घोषित कि it had cancelled everybody Hates Chris.
Prior to इस, executive निर्माता क्रिस चट्टान announced that the समाप्त of ऋतु 4 matched up with उसके अपना past—dropping out of high स्कूल to become a comedian—and that it was time to end the show.
Pleural effusion is excess द्रव that accumulates between the two pleural layers, the fluid-filled स्पेस कि surrounds the lungs.
Excessive amounts of ऐसे द्रव can impair breathing by limiting the विस्तार of the lungs during वेंटिलेशन.
बियोवुल्फ़ ( ; in बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी or ) is the conventional शीर्षक of an बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी वीर epic poem consisting of 3182 alliterative long लाइनों, set in Scandinavia, commonly cited as one of the most important works of Anglo-Saxon साहित्य.
it survives in a सिंगल manuscript known as the Nowell Codex.
Its संयोजन by an anonymous Anglo-Saxon कवि is dated between the 8th and the early 11th सदी.
In 1731, the पाण्डुलिपि थी badly क्षतिग्रस्त by a fire कि swept through a भवन housing a collection of Medieval manuscripts समवेत by Sir रॉबर्ट ब्रूस Cotton.
the कविता fell into अस्पष्टता लिये दशकों, और its अस्तित्व did नहीं become widely ज्ञात again जबतक it was मुद्रित in 1815 in an edition prepared by the icelandic-danish विद्वान grímur Jónsson Thorkelin.
In the कविता, Beowulf, a नायिका of the Geats in Scandinavia, comes to the help of hroðgar, the king of the Danes, जिनकी mead हॉल ( in heorot ) has been under आक्रमण by a monster ज्ञात as Grendel.
After Beowulf जानबूझ उसे, grendel 's माँ हमले the hall और is then भी पराजित.
विजयी, बियोवुल्फ़ goes home to geatland in Sweden और बाद becomes king of the Geats.
After a period of पचास years has passed, बियोवुल्फ़ defeats a ड्रैगन, लकिन is fatally wounded in the battle.
बाद his मौत, his attendants bury उसे in a tumulus, a दफ़न mound, in Geatland.
Shem हैम और japheth by James Tissot 1904.
Shem ( ; sēm ; Arabic : sām ; ge'ez : ሴም, Sēm ; `` renown ; prosperity ; name '' ) was one of the sons of Noah in the Hebrew Bible as well as in Islamic साहित्य.
He is most popularly regarded as the eldest बेटे, हालांकि कुछ परंपराओं regard him as the second son.
Genesis 10:21 refers to सापेक्ष आयु of Shem और उसके brother Japheth, लकिन with sufficient ambiguity to have yielded different translations.
the verse is translated in the kjv as `` Unto Shem भी, the father of all the children of Eber, the bhai of japheth the elder, even to him यहूद children born. ``.
However, the New American मानक बाइबल देता, `` भी to Shem, the father of सब the children of Eber, and the पुरानी bhai of Japheth, children were born. ''
Genesis 11:10 रिकॉर्ड कि shem थी still 100 सालो old at the जनम of Arphaxad, ( लकिन nearly 101 - see Chronology नोट, ) two years after the बाढ़, making him barely 99 at the समय the बाढ़ began ; and that he जिया लिये another 500 years after this, making his आयु at मौत 600 years.
The children of shem यहूद ईलम, Asshur, arphaxad, Lud, and aram, in addition to daughters.
अब्राहम, the patriarch of the Hebrews and Arabs, was one of the वंशजों of Arphaxad.
Islamic literature describes shem as एक of the believing बेटे of Noah.
कुछ स्त्रोत even identify Shem as a prophet in his अपना सही and that he was the next prophet बाद his पिता.
In one Muslim लेजेंड, Shem थी one of the people कि God बना Jesus उठाएगा as a sign to the Children of इसराईल.
The 1st सदी इतिहासकार flavius Josephus, among many others, recounted the परंपरा that ये five बेटे यहूद the progenitors of the राष्ट्र of ईलम, Assyria, chaldea, लीडिया, और सीरियाई, respectively.
Semitic is स्टिल a commonly प्रयुक्त term for the Semitic languages, as a subset of the afro-asiatic languages, denoting the common linguistic विरासत of Arabic, aramaic, Akkadian, ethiopic, यहूदी और Phoenician languages.
According to कुछ Jewish traditions ( e.g., B. Talmud Nedarim 32b ; उत्पत्ति rabbah 46:7 ; उत्पत्ति rabbah 56:10 ; leviticus Rabbah 25:6 ; संख्याएँ rabbah 4:8. ), Shem is believed to have been melchizedek, King of सलेम जिसको अब्राहम is recorded to have मिले after the battle of the चार kings.
in a few of the many extra-biblical sources that describe him, Shem is भी credited साथ killing nimrod, son of Cush.
Shem is mentioned in उत्पत्ति 5:32, 6:10 ; 7:13 ; 9:18,23,26-27 ; 10 ; 11:10 ; भी in 1 क्रॉनिकल्स 1:4.
Geographic identifications of Flavius Josephus, c. 100 ad ; japheth 's बेटे दिखाया in रेड, हैम 's बेटे in blue, shem 's sons in green.
Go Daddy or go Daddy Group Inc. is a privately held company कि is primarily an अंतरजाल डोमेन रजिस्ट्रार and web hosting company.
Go Daddy Group Inc. filed for an IPO in 2006, लकिन later canceled it, due to `` मार्केट uncertainties ''.
In addition to domain पंजीकरण and होस्टिंग Go Daddy also sells e-business related तन्त्र और सेवाएं.
On June 24, 2011, The वॉल गली जर्नल reported that private-equity firms KKR and चांदी झील Partners, साथ साथ a third investor, यहूद nearing a सौदे to ख़रीदे the company for between $ 2–2.5 billion.
On July 1, 2011 Go Daddy पुष्टि that KKR, चांदी Lake Partners और प्रौद्योगिकी Crossover ventures had बंद the deal.
हालांकि the खरीदें price थी नहीं officially announced it was reported to be $ 2.25 अरब, for 65 % of the company.
, bob पार्सन्स had ceded the CEO role of go Daddy to Warren Adelman, जो था been with the कम्पनी for about 10 सालो.
the andorran कोट of बाहें at the Andorran पार्लियामेंट.
Andorra ( ;, ), officially the Principality of Andorra ( ), also called the Principality of the घाटियों of Andorra, ( ), is a landlocked microstate in Southwestern Europe, located in the पूर्वी Pyrenees kyu और bordered by Spain और France.
It is the छठे smallest स्वदेश in Europe, having an area of and an अनुमानित population of 85,000 in 2012.
Its पूंजी, अंडोरा la Vella, is the highest पूंजी नगर in यूरोपीय, at an उन्नयन of above समुद्र level.
the आधिकारिक भाषा is कैटलन, हालांकि Spanish, Portuguese, and French are also commonly spoken.
Created under a चार्टर in 988, the उपस्थित principality was formed in 1278.
It is known as a principality as it is a monarchy headed by two co-princes – the बिशप of urgell और the President of France.
अंडोरा is a prosperous देश mainly क्युकी of इसके tourism उद्योग, which सेवाएं an अनुमानित 10.2 million visitors annually, and भी because of इसके औकात as a कर haven.
It is not a member of the European Union, but the यूरोपियन is the de facto currency.
the people of अंडोरा have the 4th उच्चतम human जीवन प्रत्याशा in the world — 82 सालो at birth.
The जार्ज वॉशिंगटन विश्वविद्यालयों ( GW, GWU, or George Washington ) is a comprehensive private, coeducational शोध university located in Washington, D.C..
It awards certificates, Bachelor degrees, मास्टर्स degrees, और phds आरपार अनेक दर्जन disciplines.
The university was चार्टर्ड by an अधिनियम of Congress on फ़रवरी 9, 1821 as The Columbian कॉलेज in the District of Columbia.
Kimberly Noel `` किम '' कार्दशियन ( born October 21, 1980 ) is an अमरीकी socialite, टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व और occasional actress.
In 2007, वो gained सुर्खी as the subject of a sex tape that subsequently resulted in a court awarding her $ 5 लाख ; बाद in that वही year, she and her family रोज़ to prominence साथ their e !
reality television series Keeping up with the Kardashians, and its subsequent spin-offs, सहित Kourtney and किम Take New यॉर्क and कोर्टनी और Kim Take Miami.
in 2010, Kardashian was the highest-earning reality star, with estimated आय of $ 6 million.
With बहनों कोर्टनी और Khloé, Kardashian co-owns the fashion बुटीक chain d-a-s-h.
वो रै been शामिल in the production of अनेक लाइनों of कपडे and सुगंध.
in August 2011, Kardashian married बास्केट player क्रिस Humphries in a widely publicized ceremony.
That अक्तूबर, Kardashian filed for तलाक following 72 days of marriage.
The move garnered significant backlash from the media, who labeled it a `` publicity stunt ''.
बाद 536 days, कार्दशियन और Humphries reached an अघोषित settlement at the लॉस Angeles श्रेष्ठ अदालत, finalizing the तलाक in अप्रैल 2013.
aerial view of Oahu साथ freeways और राजमार्गों, 3d computer-generated चित्र
fly-around tour of the island
oahu ( ) or Oahu, known as `` The महफ़िल Place '', is the तीसरा largest of the Hawaiian Islands और the most populous of the आइलैंड्स in the u.S. state of Hawaii.
the state पूंजी, Honolulu, is on Oahu 's southeast coast.
Including small close-in offshore islands ऐसे as घाट द्वीप और the islands in Kaneohe Bay और off the eastern ( windward ) coast, it has a total जमीन क्षेत्रफल of, making it the 20th largest द्वीप in the United राज्य.
In the greatest आयाम, इस volcanic द्वीप is long and across.
the length of the shoreline is.
the द्वीप is the result of two separate shield ज्वालामुखी : Waianae और Koolau, with a broad `` घाटी '' or saddle ( the सेंट्रल Oahu Plain ) between उन्हें.
the highest पाइंट is Mt. Ka'ala in the waianae दायरा, rising to above sea level.
the base करेंसी of the United States is the u.S. dollar, and is printed on bills in denominations of $ 1, $ 2, $ 5, $ 10, $ 20, $ 50, and $ 100.
At एक time, however, U.S. करेंसी included पाँच larger denominations.
Notes in the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, and $ 10,000 यहूद printed लिये general use, and a $ 100,000 note थी printed लिये certain आतंरिक ट्रांजेक्शन.
British Honduras was a अंग्रेजों colony in सेंट्रल America.
in 1981, the colony gained पूरा independence, and is अभी the independent nation of बेलीज़.
पहला colonised by spaniards in the 17th century, the territory on the ईस्ट coast of सेंट्रल America, south of Mexico, became a अंग्रेजों crown colony in 1862.
In 1964, it became a self-governing colony.
Belize became fully स्वतंत्र from the संयुक्त किंगडम in 1981.
Belize थी the last continental possession of the संयुक्त Kingdom in the Americas.
Spelt, also known as dinkel गेहूं, or hulled गेहूं, is an ancient species of गेहूं इससे the fifth millennium bc.
Spelt थी an important staple in parts of Europe इससे the Bronze Age to medieval times ; it now survives as a relict क्रॉप in सेंट्रल Europe and northern Spain और रै found a new market as a health खाना.
spelt is sometimes माना a subspecies of the closely related प्रजाति common wheat ( T. aestivum ), in which case its वनस्पति name is माना to be triticum aestivum subsp. spelta.
it is a hexaploid गेहूं, जिससे means it has six sets of chromosomes.
Sherlock Holmes ( or ) is a fictional detective created by लेखक और physician Sir आर्थर Conan Doyle.
a london-based `` consulting detective '' whose abilities border on the fantastic, Holmes is प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके astute logical reasoning, his क्षमता to adopt almost any भेस, और उसके use of forensic science कौशल to solve difficult cases.
holmes, जो first appeared in प्रकाशन in 1887, was featured in चार novels और 56 short stories.
the पहला novel, a Study in Scarlet, appeared in beeton 's Christmas Annual in 1887 and the दूसरी, The Sign of the Four, in lippincott 's Monthly Magazine in 1890.
the character grew tremendously in popularity with the पहला series of short stories in the Strand Magazine, शुरूआत with A Scandal in बोहेमिया in 1891 ; further श्रेणी of short stories और two novels प्रकाशित in serial रूप appeared between तब and 1927.
The stories cover a period from around 1880 up to 1914.
All लकिन चार कहानियां are narrated by holmes 's friend और biographer, Dr. जॉन H. वाटसन ; दो हैं narrated by holmes खुद ( `` the Blanched सिपाही `` और `` The Lion 's माने `` ) and two others are written in the third व्यक्ति ( `` the Mazarin Stone `` और `` His Last Bow `` ).
In दो कहानियां ( `` The musgrave Ritual `` and `` The Gloria स्कॉट `` ), Holmes tells वाटसन the main story from his यादें, while वाटसन becomes the narrator of the frame स्टोरी.
the पहला and fourth novels, A पढ़ाई in स्कारलेट and the घाटी of Fear, प्रत्येक include a long interval of omniscient narration recounting events unknown to either holmes or Watson.
The United States House of प्रतिनिधि is एक of the two घरों of the United States Congress ( a bicameral legislature ).
it is frequently referred to as the House.
The अन्य house is the Senate.
The composition और powers of the House are स्थापित in Article One of the United States Constitution.
The major शक्ति of the हाउस is to pass federal legislation that affects the entire country हालांकि इसके बिल्स must भी be passed by the सीनेट and further agreed to by the U.S. President पहले becoming विधि ( unless both the हाउस और सीनेट re-pass the विधान with a two-thirds बहुमत in each chamber ).
The हाउस has several exclusive शक्तियां : the शक्ति to initiate revenue bills, to impeach officials, and to elect the u.S. अध्यक्ष in मामला there is no majority in the चुनावी कॉलेज.
Each U.S. state is represented in the House in proportion to its population लकिन is entitled to at तनिक one representative.
The most populous state, California, currently रै 53 प्रतिनिधि.
the कुल क्रमांक of voting प्रतिनिधि is फिक्स्ड by law at 435.
Each representative serves for a two-year term.
The स्पीकर of the United राज्य House of प्रतिनिधि, who presides over the chamber, is elected by the members of the House, और is therefore traditionally the नेता of the हाउस Democratic caucus or the House रिपब्लिकन सम्मेलन, whichever party रै more voting सदस्यों.
The हाउस meets in the south wing of the संयुक्त States Capitol.
jell-o is a brand name belonging to U.S.-based Kraft भोजन लिये a number of जिलेटिन desserts, including fruit gels, puddings और no-bake cream pies.
The ब्रांड 's लोकप्रियता has led to it being प्रयुक्त as a generic term लिये gelatin मिठाई आरपार the U.S. and कनाडा.
Kennywood is an मनोरंजन पार्क located in वेस्ट Mifflin, पेन्सिलवेनिया, a उपनगरीय of Pittsburgh.
the park पहला खोली in 1898 as a `` ट्राली park '' attraction at the end of the mellon family 's Monongahela Street Railway.
The park थी खरीदा in 1906 by F. W. Henninger और Andrew mcswigan and thus began the kennywood entertainment company कि has remained a closely आयोजित परिवार कारोबार लिये over 100 years.
This परंपरागत मनोरंजन park still has structures और rides dating वापस to its खोलने and the early 1900s.
Along साथ Rye playland पार्क, it is एक of only two amusement पार्क सूचीबद्ध in the नेशनल Register of ऐतिहासिक स्थान.
Kennywood is स्वामित्व by Kennywood entertainment Company, जिससे until दिसम्बर 2007 थी a closely आयोजित family कारोबार owned by the Henninger और mcswigan families.
kennywood Entertainment is now संचालित by California-based Palace Entertainment, a subsidiary of parques reunidos, an international amusement पार्क कम्पनी आधारित in मैड्रिड, स्पेन.
parque Reunidos is in turn a subsidiary of Candover Investments, an निवेश fund आधारित in the UK.
A सोशल सुरक्षा card जारी by the Railroad Retirement Board in 1943 to a now मृतक person.
In the संयुक्त राज्य, a सोशल Security number ( SSN ) is a nine-digit number जारी to u.S. नागरिकों, permanent residents, and temporary ( working ) residents under section 205 ( c ) ( 2 ) of the Social Security Act, codified as.
The number is issued to an individual by the सोशल Security प्रशासन, an independent agency of the संयुक्त राज्य government.
Its प्राथमिक purpose is to track individuals लिये सोशल Security उद्देश्य.
A सोशल सुरक्षा क्रमांक may be obtained by applying on रूप ss-5, `` अनुप्रयोग लिये A Social सुरक्षा Number कार्ड ''.
Minimalism describes आंदोलनों in various फ़ॉर्म of आर्ट and design, विशेषकर विज़ुअल art and म्यूज़िक, where the कार्य is set out to expose the essence or पहचान of a विषय through eliminating सब non-essential forms, सुविधाएँ or अवधारणाओं.
Minimalism is any design or style in which the सरलतम और fewest elements हैं used to बनाएँ the अधिकतम प्रभाव.
As a specific movement in the arts it is पहचाना साथ developments in post–World War II Western Art, सबसे strongly साथ अमरीकी visual arts in the 1960s and early 1970s.
prominent कलाकारों associated with इस movement शामिल डोनाल्ड judd, John McCracken, agnes Martin, Dan flavin, Robert मॉरिस, Anne truitt, and फ़्रैंक Stella.
It is rooted in the reductive पहलुओं of Modernism, and is प्रायः interpreted as a reaction विरूद्ध अमूर्त expressionism and a bridge to postminimal आर्ट practices.
the terms have विस्तारित to encompass a गति in music जिससे सुविधाएँ repetition और iteration, as in the compositions of La Monte यंग, Terry Riley, Steve reich, फिलिप कांच, and John Adams.
Minimalist compositions are sometimes known as systems music.
The पद `` minimalist '' is often applied colloquially to designate anything that is अतिरिक्त or stripped to its essentials.
It has भी been used to describe the plays and novels of Samuel Beckett, the films of रॉबर्ट Bresson, the stories of रेमंड carver, and even the ऑटोमोबाइल डिजाइन of कोलिन Chapman.
The word was पहला used in English in the early 20th century to describe the Mensheviks.
In रसायन और physics, Dalton 's law ( also called डाल्टन 's law of आंशिक pressures ) राज्य that the total दबाव exerted by the mixture of non-reactive गैसों is बराबर to the sum of the partial pressures of व्यक्तिगत गैसों.
इस empirical law थी observed by जॉन Dalton in 1801 and is related to the ideal gas laws.
mathematically, the दबाव of a मिश्रण of gases can be defined as the summation
or
where represent the आंशिक दबाव of each component.
it is assumed that the गैसों do not react with each अन्य
जहाँ is the mole fraction of the i-th घटक in the total मिश्रण of n components.
The relationship नीचे provides a रास्ता to determine the आवाज़ आधारित concentration of any व्यक्तिगत gaseous component
जहाँ is the concentration of the i-th component expressed in ppm.
डाल्टन 's law is not exactly followed by real गैसों.
those deviations are considerably large at ऊँची pressures.
In such शर्तें, the volume occupied by the molecules can become significant compared to the free स्पेस between them.
in particular, the short average दूरियाँ between molecules उठाता the intensity of intermolecular शक्तियां between गैस molecules enough to substantially change the दबाव exerted by them.
neither of those प्रभाव are माना by the आदर्श gas मॉडल.
This is a सूची of the largest संयुक्त राज्य colleges and universities by नामांकन लिये colleges and universities in the United States.
कया this सूची शामिलs:
Colleges और विश्वविद्यालयों भीतर the संयुक्त राज्य
University systems if the प्रणाली is run under a single प्रशासन
Enrollment is the sum of the headcount of undergraduate and ग्रैजुएट students
Enrollment is counted by the Integrated Post-secondary Education प्रणाली within the U.S. Department of Education.
नामांकन is the 12-month unduplicated headcount, indicating the number of अद्वितीय students who attended the university during the year.
What this सूची does नहीं include:
Any indication of कैसा many of the enrolled विद्यार्थी are full or part time ( e.g., some universities may have a high enrollment, but have सबसे विद्यार्थी enrolled in only a सिंगल class )
For other सूचियाँ that measure विश्वविद्यालयों नामांकन, देखिए the See भी section below.
`` सही गोलाकार '' is a song performed by American rapper Flo Rida, released as the सीसे single from उसके दूसरी studio एल्बम, r.o.o.t.s. ( 2009 ).
The song सुविधाएँ अतिथि vocals from Kesha.
It was released to radio on 27 January 2009 and was डिजिटली released on 10 फ़रवरी by Poe Boy entertainment and Atlantic रिकॉर्ड.
The सोंग lyrically speaks of flo rida 's net बॉल रेफरी enthusiasm, while adapting the कोरस of the 1984 Dead or Alive song `` You Spin Me गोलाकार ( Like a Record ) `` in its आँकड़ा.
According to एक of the song 's लेखक, the chorus refers to oral sex.
kesha contributed अतिथि vocals to the सोंग, लकिन in the United States, during the run atop the chart, kesha थी uncredited.
The सोंग प्राप्त mostly ऋणात्मक reviews इससे आलोचकों, who claimed it was kitsch और misogynistic.
however, it थी a commercial success, reaching the top ten of the चार्ट in उन्नीस countries worldwide.
in the United States, it became Flo Rida 's second number-one single and broke the record for first-week sales जब it was released to digital retailers.
The सिंगल 's accompanying music वीडियो was directed by Malcolm Jones and मनोनीत for an एमटीवी वीडियो म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार.
The सोंग रै been used in अनेक movies, ऐसे as the hangover, The भद्दा सच्चाई and the तेलुगु movie Pilla Zamindar.
In the फिल्म Pitch पूर्ण, the सोंग is performed by the a cappella समूह the Treblemakers.
the मुख्य Justice of the United राज्य is the head of the United राज्य federal court प्रणाली ( the judicial शाखा of the federal सरकारी of the United राज्य ) और the मुख्य judge of the Supreme अदालत of the संयुक्त राज्य.
The मुख्य इंसाफ is एक of नौ Supreme Court justices ; the other आठ are the Associate justices of the Supreme Court of the United States.
From 1789 until 1866, the office was known as the मुख्य Justice of the Supreme Court.
The मुख्य Justice is the highest न्यायिक officer in the country, और अधिनियमों as a chief प्रशासनिक officer लिये the federal courts and as head of the Judicial Conference of the संयुक्त States appoints the director of the Administrative Office of the United राज्य Courts.
the मुख्य Justice भी serves as a प्रवक्ता for the न्यायिक branch.
The मुख्य इंसाफ लीड the कारोबार of the Supreme Court.
he presides over मौखिक arguments पहले the अदालत.
When the court renders an राय, the Chief Justice—when in the majority—decides जो writes the court 's opinion.
The Chief Justice also रै significant agenda-setting शक्ति over the अदालत 's बैठक.
in the case of an impeachment of a अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य, which has occurred twice, the मुख्य इंसाफ presides over the trial in the सीनेट.
In modern परंपरा, the मुख्य Justice has the ceremonial ड्यूटी of administering the oath of office of the President of the संयुक्त राज्य.
The पहला Chief Justice थी John Jay.
The 17th and current Chief इंसाफ is जॉन G. रॉबर्ट्स, Jr.
Caribou निकट prudhoe Bay, 1973
Prudhoe खाड़ी आयल Field is a विशाल आयल फ़ील्ड on अलास्का 's North ढलान.
It is the largest oil फ़ील्ड in दोनो the United राज्य and in North America, covering and originally containing approximately of आयल.
the राशि of recoverable oil in the फ़ील्ड is अधिक than double that of the अगला largest फ़ील्ड in the संयुक्त States, the East Texas oil फ़ील्ड.
the फ़ील्ड is operated by BP ; partners हैं ExxonMobil and conocophillips अलास्का.
Labor unions हैं legally पहचाना as representatives of workers in many उद्योग in the United States.
Their activity आज centers on collective bargaining over wages, benefits, and working conditions लिये their सदस्यता, and on representing उनके सदस्यों in disputes with प्रबन्धन over violations of contract provisions.
larger unions also typically engage in lobbying क्रियाएँ and electioneering at the state and federal level.
सबसे unions in America हैं aligned with one of two larger umbrella संगठन : the AFL-CIO created in 1955, and the Change to Win Federation which विभाजित इससे the AFL-CIO in 2005.
Both advocate नीतियों and legislation on behalf of मजदूर in the United राज्य and Canada, and लो an active role in राजनीती.
The afl-cio is विशेषकर चिंतित with global trade मुद्दे.
in 2010, the percentage of मजदूर belonging to a union in the United States ( or total labor union `` density '' ) was 11.4 %, compared to 18.4 % in जर्मनी, 27.5 % in Canada, and 70 % in फिनलैंड.
Union membership in the private सेक्टर has fallen अंतर्गत 7 % — levels not seen since 1932.
Unions allege कि employer-incited opposition has contributed to this मनाही in सदस्यता.
the सबसे prominent unions are among public सेक्टर employees such as teachers and पुलिस.
सदस्यों of संघ are disproportionately पुरानी, male and residents of the Northeast, the मिडवेस्ट, and California.
संघ workers average 10-30 % उच्चतर अदा than non-union in America after controlling for व्यक्तिगत, job, and labor market विशेषताएँ.
Although much छोटी compared to उनके peak membership in the 1950s, American संघ remain a prominent political फ़ैक्टर, दोनो through mobilization of उनके own सदस्यताएँ and through coalitions साथ like-minded activist संगठन around issues such as immigrant rights, व्यापार policy, health care, and living मजदूरी अभियान.
to लड़ो कथित employer anti-union programs, unions हैं currently वकालत नई `` card check `` संघीय विधान that would require employers to bargain with a संघ if अधिक than 50 % of workers signed forms, or `` ताश, '' stating they wish to be represented by that union.
the current procedure involves waiting 45 to 90 days लिये a federally supervised secret-ballot employee referendum on the subject.
The economist Joseph Stiglitz रै asserted that, `` Strong संघ have helped to reduce असमानता, whereas weaker संघ have made it easier for CEOs, sometimes working with मार्केट forces that they have helped shape, to बढ़ाएँ it. ''
the मनाही in unionization चूंकि WWII in the संयुक्त States has महरूम associated with a pronounced वृद्धि in income and wealth inequality.
a ईसाई Lacroix फ़ैशन बुटीक
A बुटीक is a small shopping outlet, विशेषकर one that specializes in elite and fashionable वस्तुएं ऐसे as कपडे और jewelry.
The word is फ्रेंच for `` दूकान '', via लैटिन from Greek ἀποθήκη ( apothēkē ), `` storehouse ''.
The पद entered into everyday अंग्रेज़ी use in the late 1960s जब, for a brief period, London was the केन्द्र of the फ़ैशन trade.
Carnaby Street और the किंग्स Road were the focus of much media attention as घर to the सबसे फैशनेबल boutiques of the era.
Now the East of लंदन रै महरूम regenerated and more boutiques पॉप up in fashionable areas, such as मीनार सेतु Road.
It can also refer to a specialised firm such as a बुटीक निवेश बैंको or boutique विधि कड़.
The word is प्रायः used to describe a property in the independent खण्ड of the होटल मार्केट ( such as The rockwell in लंदन ) in order to distinguish themselves इससे larger chains ( ऐसे as हिल्टन Hotels ).
In ऐसे cases the establishments उद्देश्य to convey the idea कि the operation is elite and highly specialised.
in the strictest sense of the शब्द, boutiques होता be one-of-a-kind but अधिक generally बोलना, कुछ जंजीरों can be referred to as boutiques if they specialize in particular शैलियाँ.
recently, the पद `` बुटीक '' रै started होने applied to normally-mass-market items that are either niche or produced in intentionally small numbers at very ऊँची कीमतें.
This may be referred to as boutique निर्माण.
लिये example, before the release of the Wii, a Time Magazine आलेख suggested that Nintendo could become a `` boutique video-game company '', producing games लिये niche ऑडियंस, rather than trying to compete सीधे साथ microsoft and सोनी.
In the traditional luxury- watch उद्योग Scalfaro International is considered as the precursor in manufacturing और बिक्री of bespoke घड़ियाँ.
the स्विस company uses a highly लचीली बुटीक manufacturing site, जिससे allows producing छोटी series or even अद्वितीय timepieces.
Although some boutiques specialise in hand-made items and अन्य truly one-of-a-kind वस्तुएं, others simply उपज t-shirts, stickers, और other fashion accessories in artificially small रनों and बेचें उन्हें at unusually high prices.
In the early 1990s सेलिना started manufacturing her own line of women 's कपडे.
Opening दो boutiques labeled as `` Selena Etc. Boutique & Salon '' एक located in Corpus Christi and one located in सैन Antonio, Texas.
One was due to open in Monterrey, मैक्सिको, in 1995 लकिन due to her मौत it was नहीं opened.
Around 1999 the San Antonio स्थान बंद and the कॉर्पस christi location was closed in 2009.
In लेट 1990s some European खुदरा traders developed the idea of tailoring a दूकान towards a जीवनशैली theme, in the रूप of `` concept stores '', which specialised in cross-selling बगैर using separate departments.
एक of the first concept stores थी 10 कोरसो Como in मिलान, इटली followed by Colette in Paris and quartier 206 in बर्लिन.
अनेक well-known American chains such as शहरी Outfitters, d-a-s-h, और the Gap, Australian कड़ी Billabong और, though less common, रब & टेलर adapted to the concept store trend बाद 2000.
नेवी संघीय Credit Union ( or Navy Federal ) is a क्रेडिट संघ headquartered in Vienna, वर्जिनिया, चार्टर्ड and regulated under the authority of the नेशनल Credit Union प्रशासन ( NCUA ) of the u.S. federal government.
नेवी संघीय is the largest natural member ( or retail ) क्रेडिट union in the world, both in एसेट आकार और in सदस्यता.
as of सितंबर 2012, Navy Federal had over $ 50 अरब usd in assets, and over 4 million सदस्यों.
Stevland hardaway मॉरिस ( born May 13, 1950 as stevland Hardaway judkins ), ज्ञात by उसके stage नाम Stevie Wonder, is an अमरीकी singer, songwriter, and multi-instrumentalist, a चाइल्ड prodigy जो विकसित into one of the most creative musical figures of the लेट 20th सदी.
Blind चूंकि shortly after जनम, Wonder signed साथ Motown 's tamla label at the आयु of ग्यारह, और continues to perform and record for motown to this दिन.
among Wonder 's best known works हैं singles ऐसे as `` अंधविश्वास ``, `` Sir ड्यूक ``, `` You Are the Sunshine of My जीवन `` और `` I Just Called to Say I प्रेम तुम ``.
खूब known albums also include Talking किताब, innervisions and गीतों in the कुंजी of जीवन.
he has अंकित more than thirty U.S. top ten हिट्स and received twenty-two ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, the सबसे कभी awarded to a पुरूष solo artist.
अचरज is also noted लिये his work as an activist लिये राजनैतिक कल्याणकारी, including his 1980 अभियान to मेक Martin लूथर किंग, jr. 's जन्मदिवस a holiday in the United States.
in 2009, अचरज थी named a संयुक्त Nations मेसेंजर of Peace.
in 2008, Billboard magazine released a list of the Hot 100 All-Time शीर्ष कलाकारों to celebrate the us singles चार्ट 's fiftieth anniversary, साथ अचरज at number five.
By popular vote, Stevie थी inducted into The SoulMusic हॉल of Fame at soulmusic.com in December 2012.
मनस्ताप ( इससे the यूनानी ψυχή `` psyche '', for mind/soul, and -ωσις `` -ओएसआईs '', लिये abnormal condition or derangement ) refers to an abnormal condition of the mind, और is a generic मनोरोग term लिये a दिमागी state प्रायः described as involving a `` loss of contact साथ reality ``.
लोगों कष्ट from मनस्ताप are described as psychotic.
Psychosis is दिए to the अधिक कठोर फ़ॉर्म of psychiatric disorder, during जिससे hallucinations और delusions, सकल उत्तेजना or stupor and impaired insight may occur.
The पद `` मनस्ताप '' is very broad और can mean anything from relatively सामान्य aberrant अनुभवों through to the जटिल और catatonic expressions of schizophrenia और bipolar प्रकार 1 विकार.
moreover a चौड़ी किस्में of central nervous system रोगों, from दोनो external substances and internal physiologic illness, can produce symptoms of मनस्ताप.
इस led many पेशेवर to say कि मनस्ताप is नहीं specific enough as a निदान term.
Despite इस, `` मनस्ताप '' is generally given to noticeable deficits in normal behavior ( ऋणात्मक लक्षण ) and अधिक commonly to diverse types of hallucinations or delusional beliefs ( e.g. grandiosity, delusions of persecution ).
Someone exhibiting very obvious लक्षण may be described as `` frankly psychotic '', whereas one exhibiting बहुत हल्का signs could be classified in the category of an `` attenuated psychotic risk syndrome ''.
An excess in dopaminergic signalling is traditionally linked to the धनात्मक symptoms of मनस्ताप, विशेषकर those of schizophrenia.
This is thought to occur through a mechanism of aberrant salience of पर्यावरणीय stimuli.
Many antipsychotic दवाएँ accordingly निशाना the dopamine प्रणाली ; meta-analyses of placebo-controlled trials of these drugs, however, दिखाएँ either no significant अंतर between ड्रग और placebo, or a very small प्रभाव आकार, suggesting कि the pathophysiology of psychosis is much अधिक complex than an overactive dopamine प्रणाली.
People experiencing psychosis may exhibit कुछ personality changes और विचार विकार.
depending on its severity, this may be accompanied by असामान्य or bizarre बर्ताव, as well as परेशानी with सोशल interaction और impairment in carrying आउट रोज़ life activities.
General Grievous is a fictional अक्षर in the Star युद्धों universe.
a recurring antagonist, he is the Supreme कमांडर of the confederacy of स्वतंत्र प्रणालियों, a political faction of planetary systems waging युद्ध on the गांगेय Republic.
Trained in सब सात forms of lightsaber कॉम्बैट by गिनती dooku, he is a ruthless और powerful warrior devoted to जेडी 's destruction during the क्लोन युद्धों.
His अधिनियमों of wanton aggression and high Jedi body गिनती would prompt the galaxy to दे him the nickname the Knightslayer.
Though the notorious Jedi slayer was the होने in the आकाशगंगा दौरान the क्लोन Wars who had मारे the most Jedi in single combat, he did not संकोच to flee from battles he knew he होता खोना.
Statistics खेल an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in summarizing baseball performance and evaluating खिलाड़ी in the खेल.
Since the flow of a baseball खेल has प्राकृतिक ब्रेक to it, and सामान्यतः players act individually rather than performing in क्लस्टर, the sport lends itself to आसान record-keeping और statistics.
Statistics have महरूम रखा लिये professional baseball चूंकि the सृष्टि of the National League and American लीग, now part of प्रमुख League बेसबॉल.
Many statistics are also उपलब्धियाँ from बाहर of Major League Baseball, इससे लीग ऐसे as the नेशनल Association of Professional आधार Ball खिलाड़ी और the Negro Leagues.
Dorothea lange 's migrant माँ depicts destitute pea pickers in California, centering on Florence Owens Thompson, age 32, a mother of seven children, in nipomo, California, March 1936.
USA सालाना real GDP इससे 1910–60, with the years of the ग्रेट अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
the unemployment rate in the us 1910–1960, with the years of the ग्रेट अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The Great अवसाद was a कठोर विश्वव्यापी economic depression in the decade preceding संसार युद्ध II.
The timing of the ग्रेट अवसाद varied आरपार nations, but in सबसे countries it प्रारंभ in 1930 and lasted जबतक the लेट 1930s or middle 1940s.
It was the longest, सबसे widespread, and deepest depression of the 20th century.
In the 21st century, the ग्रेट अवसाद is commonly used as an उदाहरण of कैसा दूर the world 's economy can decline.
the depression originated in the U.S., after the पतन in भण्डार कीमतें कि began around September 4, 1929, और became विश्वव्यापी news साथ the stock market क्रैश of अक्तूबर 29, 1929 ( known as ब्लैक Tuesday ).
the ग्रेट Depression था विनाशकारी effects in countries समृद्ध और ग़रीब.
निजी income, कर revenue, profits और prices dropped, while अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार plunged by अधिक than 50 %.
बेरोजगारी in the U.S. rose to 25 %, और in कुछ देशों रोज़ as high as 33 %.
Cities all around the world were hit hard, विशेषकर those निर्भर on heavy उद्योग.
Construction थी virtually halted in अनेक countries.
खेती and rural क्षेत्रों suffered as crop कीमतें fell by लगभग 60 %.
Facing plummeting माँग with few वैकल्पिक स्त्रोत of jobs, areas dependent on primary sector उद्योग ऐसे as cash cropping, mining and लॉगिंग suffered the most.
Some economies started to रिकवर by the mid-1930s.
In many countries, the negative effects of the ग्रेट अवसाद lasted जबतक the समाप्त of World War II.
A premature ventricular contraction ( पीवीसी ), also ज्ञात as a premature ventricular complex, ventricular premature contraction ( or complex or complexes ) ( VPC ), ventricular असामयिक beat ( vpb ), or ventricular extrasystole ( VES ), is a relatively आम event where the heartbeat is initiated by purkinje मछली in the ventricles rather than by the sinoatrial node, the सामान्य heartbeat initiator.
the electrical कार्यक्रम of the दिल detected by the electrocardiogram allow a PVC to be easily विशिष्ट from a normal दिल beat.
a पीवीसी may be आभास as a `` छोड़ा beat `` or लगा as palpitations in the chest.
In a normal heartbeat, the ventricles अनुबंध बाद the atria have helped to भरण उन्हें by contracting ; in this way the ventricles can पंप a maximized राशि of रक्त दोनो to the फेफड़े and to the बाकी of the body.
In a PVC, the ventricles contract पहला और before the atria have optimally भर the ventricles साथ रक्त, जिससे अर्थात् कि circulation is inefficient.
however, single ताल PVC arrhythmias do not प्रायः पोज़ a danger and can be asymptomatic in healthy individuals.
विलियम Gary Busey ( born जून 29, 1944 ), better known as Gary Busey, is an American फिल्मी और stage actor, और artist.
he has appeared in a variety of films, सहित Lethal Weapon, Point Break, और अंतर्गत Siege, as well as guest दिखावे on Gunsmoke, Walker, Texas Ranger, विधि & Order, and Entourage.
he थी मनोनीत लिये an Academy पुरस्कार for Best कर्ता in 1978 लिये उसके भूमिका in the दोस्त Holly Story.
The anti-counterfeiting व्यापार Agreement ( ACTA ), is a बहुराष्ट्रीय treaty लिये the purpose of establishing international standards for intellectual प्रॉपर्टी rights प्रवर्तन.
The अनुबंध aims to स्थापित an international विधिक फ्रेमवर्क लिये targeting counterfeit goods, जेनेरिक दवाइयाँ and copyright infringement on the Internet, and would create a नई governing देह outside existing forums, such as the संसार Trade संगठन, the संसार बौद्धिक Property Organization, or the संयुक्त Nations.
the agreement was हस्ताक्षरित in October 2011 by Australia, Canada, Japan, मोरक्को, नई Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, and the United States.
In 2012, Mexico, the European Union and 22 countries जिससे are member राज्य of the European Union हस्ताक्षरित as खूब.
One signatory ( जापानी ) रै ratified ( formally approved ) the agreement, जिससे would come into force in देशों that ratified it after ratification by six countries.
समर्थक have वर्णित the agreement as a जवाब to `` the increase in वैश्विक trade of नकली goods and pirated कापीराइट सुरक्षित works ''.
ट्रेड Unions representing workers in the music, फिल्मी और tv industries और large intellectual property-based organizations ऐसे as the गति Picture संघ of America and फार्मास्युटिकल शोध and निर्माताओं of America were क्रियाशील in the treaty 's development.
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों say the convention adversely affects आधारभूत अधिकारों including स्वतंत्रता of expression और गोपनीयता.
ACTA रै भी महरूम criticised by डॉक्टर Without Borders for endangering access to medicines in developing countries.
The secret प्रकृति of negotiations रै excluded सिविल society groups, developing countries और the सामान्य public from the अनुबंध 's negotiation process और it has महरूम described as नीति laundering by critics including the Electronic Frontier न्यास और the Entertainment Consumers Association.
The हस्ताक्षर of the eu and many of its सदस्य states resulted in the इस्तीफा in protest of the European Parliament 's appointed chief investigator, rapporteur कादर आरिफ, as well as फैली विरोध across यूरोपीय.
in 2012 the newly-appointed rapporteur, British MEP David मार्टिन, अनुशंसित against the treaty, stating : `` the intended benefits of इस international अनुबंध are दूर outweighed by the संभावित threats to civil लिबर्टीज ''.
On 4 July 2012, the यूरोपीय Parliament अस्वीकृत the अनुबंध in plenary session, with 478 मतदान against the treaty, 39 in favour and 165 MEPs abstaining.
FAW semi-trailer truck in China
ट्रैक्टर with पक्ष डम्प ट्रेलर semi-trailer
A ट्रैक्टर with an auto-transport semi-trailer.
semi-trailer ट्रक with sleeper पीछे the टैक्सी.
A semi-trailer truck is an articulated vehicle कि consists of a towing engine, ज्ञात as a ट्रैक्टर in the संयुक्त राज्य and truck in many other places, संलग्न to एक or अधिक semi-trailers to carry freight.
It is भी ज्ञात as a transport in कनाडा, prime प्रस्तावक in Australia, semi, tractor-trailer, truck and ट्रेलर, ट्रांसफ़र truck, 18-wheeler, mack truck, big रिग in the United राज्य, or artic, short for articulated लारी, in Britain and Ireland.
a semi-trailer does नहीं trail completely behind the towing vehicle, लकिन is attached at a पाइंट that is just forward of the rear-most धुरी of the towing unit.
This is done so that a भिन्न of the weight of the trailer is carried by the प्रधान mover.
This arrangement means कि both tractor and semi-trailer होगा have a distinctly अलग design than a rigid truck and trailer.
The पिट्सबर्ग Steelers are a पेशेवर football team based in पिट्सबर्ग, Pennsylvania.
the टोली फिलहाल belongs to the उत्तर प्रभाग of the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल Conference ( afc ) in the National फ़ुटबॉल League ( एनएफएल ).
Founded in, the Steelers are the oldest franchise in the AFC.
Pittsburgh has won more Super Bowl titles ( छह ), जीती more afc चैंपियनशिप खेल ( eight ) and निभाई in ( पंद्रह ) and hosted अधिक ( ग्यारह ) सम्मेलन championship games than any अन्य afc or NFC टोली.
the Steelers share the रिकार्ड for सबसे Super Bowl appearances with the डलास Cowboys ( आठ ).
The Steelers जीती उनके सबसे recent चैंपियनशिप, सुपर Bowl xliii, on फ़रवरी 1, 2009.
The Steelers were founded as the Pittsburgh Pirates on July 8, 1933, by Art Rooney, लेने इसके असली name from the baseball टोली of the same name, as was आम अभ्यास लिये NFL teams to do at the time.
The स्वामित्व of the स्टीलर्स has remained भीतर the रूनी परिवार since its founding.
The वर्तमान owner is आर्ट 's son, Dan Rooney, who has दिए much control of the मताधिकार to his बेटे आर्ट Rooney ii.
Long one of the एनएफएल 's फ्लैगशिप teams, the Steelers आनंद a large, फैली fanbase nicknamed Steeler Nation.
The स्टीलर्स currently play उनके घर खेल at हाइन्ज़ Field on Pittsburgh 's North Side in the North shore neighborhood, which भी hosts the विश्वविद्यालयों of पिट्सबर्ग Panthers.
Built in 2001, the stadium replaced तीन Rivers Stadium which hosted the स्टीलर्स लिये 31 सीज़न.
prior to तीन नदियाँ, the Steelers had निभाई their खेल in pitt Stadium and Forbes Field.
Three different kinds of गेहूं और rye आटा
Flour is a चूर्ण which is बना by grinding cereal दाने, or अन्य बीज or roots ( जैसे Cassava ).
it is the main संघटक of ब्रैड, जिससे is a staple food लिये many cultures, बनाना the उपलब्धता of adequate supplies of आटा a major economic और राजनैतिक issue at विभिन्न टाइम्स throughout history.
Wheat flour is one of the सबसे important भोजन in यूरोपीय, North अमरीकी, मध्य Eastern, भारतीय और उत्तर African cultures, and is the धमक ingredient in most of their शैलियाँ of breads and pastries.
जबकि wheat is the सबसे common base लिये flour, corn flour has महरूम महत्वपूर्ण in Mesoamerican cuisine चूंकि प्राचीन times, and remains a staple throughout the Americas.
Rye आटा is an important constituent of ब्रैड in much of central Europe, and rice can भी be used in आटा, हालांकि इस is अपेक्षाकृत uncommon.
Heart रेट is the क्रमांक of heartbeats प्रति ईकाई of समय, typically expressed as beats per मिनट ( bpm ).
Heart rate can vary as the body 's need to absorb ऑक्सीजन और excrete कार्बन dioxide परिवर्तन, such as during शारीरिक exercise, नींद, illness, or as a result of ingesting दवाएँ :
Central nervous प्रणाली stimulants such as amphetamines increase heart rate.
Central nervous प्रणाली depressants or sedatives decreases the heart rate ( अलावा इससे कुछ particularly strange ones with equally अजीब effects, ऐसे as केटामाइन which can cause - amongst अनेक अन्य बाते - stimulant-like effects ऐसे as tachycardia ).
वहीँ are many तरीके in जिससे the heart rate speeds up or slows bas.
सबसे involve stimulant-like endorphins and hormones being released in the दिमाग, many of जिससे हैं those कि हैं 'forced'/'enticed ' आउट by the ingestion and प्रसंस्करण of drugs.
due to individuals having a निरंतर रक्त volume, one of the physiological तरीके to deliver more ऑक्सीजन to an organ is to increase heart rate to permit रक्त to pass by the अंग अधिक प्रायः.
सामान्य resting दिल दरों range इससे 60-100 bpm.
Bradycardia is पारिभाषित as a resting दिल rate below 60 bpm.
however, दिल दरों from 50 to 60 bpm are आम among स्वस्थ people and do नहीं necessarily आवश्यकता special ध्यान.
Tachycardia is defined as a resting heart रेट ऊपर 100 bpm, though persistent rest दरों between 80-100 bpm, mainly if वे हैं उपस्थित दौरान sleep, may be लक्षण of hyperthyroidism or रक्ताल्पता ( see नीचे ).
Catherine II 's carved, चित्रित and gilded Coronation कोच ( Hermitage संग्रहालय )
a carriage is a wheeled vehicle लिये people, usually horse-drawn ; litters ( palanquins ) and सेडान कुर्सियां हैं excluded, since they are wheelless vehicles.
The carriage is विशेषकर designed लिये निजी passenger use और लिये comfort or elegance, though कुछ are also प्रयुक्त to हस्तांतरण goods.
it may be light, smart और fast or heavy, विशाल और आरामदायक.
carriages सामान्यतः have suspension using पत्ता स्रोतों, elliptical springs ( in the 19th century ) or leather strapping.
a पब्लिक यात्री vehicle would not प्रायः be पुकारा a carriage – शर्तें लिये ऐसे include stagecoach, charabanc and omnibus.
working vehicles ऐसे as the ( four-wheeled ) wagon और ( two-wheeled ) cart share important भाग of the इतिहास of the carriage, as is the तेज़ ( two-wheeled ) रथ.
The 2004 Indian समंदर earthquake थी an undersea megathrust earthquake that occurred at 00:58:53 utc on संडे, 26 December 2004, साथ an epicentre बंद the वेस्ट coast of Sumatra, इंडोनेशिया.
the quake itself is ज्ञात by the वैज्ञानिक community as the Sumatra–Andaman earthquake.
the resulting सुनामी was given various names, सहित the 2004 Indian Ocean सुनामी, South Asian tsunami, इंडोनेशियाई सुनामी, and the Boxing Day tsunami.
the भूकंप was caused by subduction and triggered a श्रेणी of devastating tsunamis along the coasts of most landmasses bordering the भारतीय Ocean, killing over 230,000 people in fourteen देशों, और inundating coastal communities with waves up to ऊँची.
it थी one of the deadliest natural disasters in recorded इतिहास.
Indonesia was the hardest-hit country, followed by श्री Lanka, इण्डिया, और थाईलैंड.
साथ a परिमाण of Mw 9.1–9.3, it is the third largest earthquake ever recorded on a seismograph.
the भूकंप had the longest duration of faulting ever observed, between 8.3 and 10 मिनट्स.
It caused the entire planet to vibrate as much as और triggered other भूकंप as दूर away as अलास्का.
इसके epicentre थी between simeulue और मेनलैंड Indonesia.
The plight of the affected लोगों and countries prompted a worldwide humanitarian response.
In all, the worldwide community दान more than $ 14 billion ( 2004 us $ ) in humanitarian aid.
भाप उठती इससे the Nesjavellir Geothermal Power Station in आइसलैंड.
geothermal उर्जा is thermal उर्जा generated and stored in the Earth.
Thermal उर्जा is the energy that determines the temperature of matter.
The geothermal energy of the धरती 's crust originates इससे the असली गठन of the planet ( 20 % ) and from रेडियोसक्रिय decay of minerals ( 80 % ).
The geothermal अनुपात, which is the अंतर in तापमान between the core of the planet and its surface, drives a continuous conduction of thermal energy in the form of heat from the core to the सतह.
the adjective geothermal originates इससे the Greek roots γη ( ge ), अर्थ earth, and θερμος ( thermos ), अर्थ hot.
At the कोर of the धरती, thermal energy is created by रेडियोसक्रिय decay और temperatures may पहुँचें over 5000 °C ( 9,000 °F ).
Heat conducts इससे the कोर to surrounding कूलर चट्टान.
the high temperature और दबाव कारण कुछ rock to melt, बनाना magma संवहन upward since it is lighter than the solid चट्टान.
the magma heats rock and water in the क्रस्ट, sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ).
इससे hot स्रोतों, geothermal energy रै been प्रयुक्त लिये bathing चूंकि Paleolithic times और for space heating since प्राचीन रोमन times, लकिन it is अभी better ज्ञात for electricity generation.
Worldwide, about 10,715 megawatts ( MW ) of geothermal power is online in 24 countries.
An अतिरिक्त 28 gigawatts of सीधा geothermal heating capacity is संस्थापित for ज़िला हीटिंग, space heating, स्पा, औद्योगिक processes, desalination and agricultural अनुप्रयोग.
geothermal power is लागत प्रभावी, विश्वसनीय, चिरस्थायी, and environmentally दोस्ताना, लकिन has historically महरूम limited to क्षेत्रों near tectonic थाली सीमाएँ.
हाल technological advances have dramatically expanded the range और size of सुगठित संसाधन, विशेषकर लिये applications ऐसे as घर heating, opening a potential for widespread शोषण.
Geothermal कुएं release greenhouse गैसों trapped गहन within the earth, but these emissions are much निम्नतर प्रति energy ईकाई than those of fossil fuels.
As a result, geothermal power रै the संभावित to सहायता mitigate वैश्विक warming if widely तैनात in place of fossil fuels.
The Earth 's geothermal resources हैं theoretically more than adequate to सप्लाई humanity 's energy needs, but तभी a very small fraction may be profitably शोषित.
Drilling and exploration लिये गहन संसाधन is very expensive.
Forecasts for the future of geothermal शक्ति depend on assumptions about technology, energy prices, subsidies, and interest दरों.
Pilot कार्यक्रम जैसे EWEB 's ग्राहक opt in ग्रीन Power Program show that ग्राहक होता be willing to pay a little more लिये a renewable उर्जा source like geothermal.
But as a परिणाम of government assisted research and industry experience, the लागत of generating geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over the past दो दशकों.
in 2001, geothermal energy cost between दो and टेन cents per kwh.
The पद घन foot is an इम्पीरियल and US customary ( non- metric ) unit of volume, used in the United राज्य and the संयुक्त Kingdom.
It is defined as the volume of a cube with पहलू of one पैर ( 0.3048 m ) in length.
To गणना घन फीट गुणा length x चौडाई x ऊँचाई.
Hồ Chí Minh ( Northern वियतनामी उच्चारण :, Southern वियतनामी pronunciation : ) ; 19 May 1890 – 2 September 1969 ), born Nguyễn Sinh Cung और also ज्ञात as Nguyễn Tất Thành and Nguyễn ái quốc, was a Vietnamese कम्युनिस्ट revolutionary leader जो was prime minister ( 1945–1955 ) और अध्यक्ष ( 1945–1969 ) of the Democratic गणतंत्र of Vietnam ( North Vietnam ).
He थी a key फिगर in the न्यास of the लोकतांत्रिक Republic of Vietnam in 1945, as well as the People’s Army of Vietnam ( pavn ) and the Việt Cộng ( NLF or VC ) during the Vietnam War.
He led the việt Minh independence movement इससे 1941 onward, establishing the communist -ruled लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of Vietnam in 1945 और defeating the French Union in 1954 at the बैटल of Điện Biên Phủ.
he officially stepped down इससे शक्ति in 1955 due to स्वास्थ्य problems, but remained a highly visible figurehead and inspiration लिये those वियतनामी fighting for his cause—a united, communist Vietnam—until उसके मौत.
After the war, Saigon, पूंजी of the Republic of वियतनाम, was renamed Hồ Chí Minh City.
All Roads Lead Home is a feature film released on सितंबर 26, 2008.
निर्देशित by Dennis Fallon, it सितारों Peter Boyle, Patton oswalt, जेसन लंदन, Vivien Cardone, वैनेसा Branch, पीटर Coyote, स्टीफन Milton, and Allan Kayser.
The फिल्म थी फिल्माया in and around कान्सास नगर, Missouri.
The फिल्म बना its World Premiere January 27 at the Santa Barbara International Film पर्व.
The फिल्मी has भी recently been in अनेक film त्यौहार, और has प्राप्त bad reviews.
Peter बॉयल died before the movie 's release.
It was the पिछला फिल्म he appeared in.
बिक्री कर in the United States हैं taxes लगाई on the बिक्री or lease of goods and services in the United States.
जबकि no national general sales tax exists, the federal government levies अनेक national चयनात्मक sales कर on the sale or lease of particular goods and सेवाएं.
furthermore, forty-five states, the ज़िला of कोलंबिया, and Guam थोपने सामान्य बिक्री कर that apply to the sale or पट्टे of most goods and some services, and states also may levy चयनात्मक बिक्री taxes on the sale or पट्टे of particular goods or services.
राज्य may also delegate to लोकल सरकारें the authority to थोपने additional general or चयनात्मक बिक्री कर.
Sales tax is calculated by multiplying the purchase price by the लागू tax रेट.
Tax दरों vary widely by jurisdiction and range from कम than 1 % to over 10 %.
बिक्री कर is collected by the विक्रेता at the time of sale.
Use tax is self assessed by a buyer who has नहीं सशुल्क sales tax on a taxable खरीदें.
नापसंद the value added tax, a बिक्री tax is imposed तभी एकबार, at the खुदरा स्तर.
However, in cases where items हैं sold at खुदरा अधिक than एकबार, such as प्रयुक्त गाड़ियाँ, the बिक्री tax can be चार्ज on the same मद indefinitely.
the परिभाषा of retail बिक्री and what goods and सेवाएं हैं taxable vary among the राज्य.
Nearly all jurisdictions provide numerous श्रेणी of goods और सेवाएं कि are exempt इससे sales tax, or taxed at घटाया दरों.
The purchase of goods for further manufacture or for resale is uniformly exempt from sales tax.
Most jurisdictions exempt खाना sold in grocery stores, prescription medications, and many agricultural आपूर्तियाँ.
बिक्री कर, including those imposed by लोकल governments, are generally administered at the राज्य स्तर.
States imposing sales कर require खुदरा sellers to collect tax from ग्राहक, file रिटर्न, और remit the tax to the state.
Procedural rules vary widely.
Sellers generally must collect tax इससे in-state purchasers unless the क्रेता provides an exemption certificate.
सबसे राज्य allow or require electronic remittance.
A central प्रसंस्करण unit ( CPU ), भी referred to as a सेंट्रल प्रोसेसर unit, is the हार्डवेयर within a computer that carries आउट the instructions of a computer कार्यक्रम by performing the मौलिक arithmetical, logical, और input/output operations of the प्रणाली.
the term has been in use in the कंप्यूटर industry at least since the early 1960s.
The रूप, design, and implementation of CPUs have changed over the course of उनके इतिहास, but their fundamental operation remains much the वही.
A कंप्यूटर can have more than एक CPU ; इस is called multiprocessing.
Some integrated circuits ( ics ) can contain multiple CPUs on a सिंगल चिप ; those ICs हैं पुकारा multi-core processors.
Two ठेठ components of a cpu हैं the गणित लॉजिक unit ( ALU ), which performs arithmetic और logical operations, and the control unit ( CU ), जिससे extracts निर्देश इससे memory and decodes और executes them, calling on the ALU when necessary.
Not all computational systems rely on a central प्रसंस्करण unit.
an सरणी processor or वेक्टर processor रै multiple समानांतर computing elements, with no one unit माना the `` बीच ''.
In the distributed computing model, problems हैं solved by a वितरित interconnected नियत of processors.
rfid chip अगला to a grain of rice.
इस chip contains a radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ील्ड coil that modulates an बाह्य magnetic field to transfer a coded identification number जब queried by a reader device.
This छोटी प्रकार is incorporated in consumer products, and implanted in पालतु, लिये identification उद्देश्य.
radio-frequency पहचान ( rfid ) is the wireless non-contact use of radio-frequency electromagnetic फ़ील्ड to transfer आंकड़ा, for the purposes of automatically identifying और tracking tags attached to objects.
the टैग contain electronically भंडारित सूचना.
Some tags are powered and read at छोटी ranges ( a few meters ) via magnetic fields ( इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक induction ).
अन्य use a local power source such as a battery, or else have no बैटरी but collect उर्जा from the interrogating EM field, and then अधिनियम as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or UHF रेडियो लहरें ( i.e., इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक radiation at high frequencies ).
Battery संचालित tags may operate at hundreds of मीटर.
Unlike a bar कोड, the टैग does not necessarily need to be within लकीर of sight of the रीडर, and may be embedded in the tracked object.
rfid tags हैं प्रयुक्त in many industries.
an RFID टैग attached to an automobile दौरान production can be प्रयुक्त to track its प्रगति through the सभा line.
Pharmaceuticals can be tracked through warehouses.
पशुधन और पालतु may have टैग injected, allowing धनात्मक पहचान of the एनिमल.
Since RFID टैग can be संलग्न to clothing, possessions, or even implanted within people, the possibility of पढना personally-linked information without सहमति रै raised privacy concerns.
Overtime is the amount of समय someone works परे normal working घंटों.
Normal घंटों may be संकल्पित in several रास्ताs:
by custom ( what is माना स्वस्थ or reasonable by society ),
by practices of a दिए trade or profession,
by legislation,
by agreement between नियोक्ता and मजदूर or उनके representatives.
सबसे nations have ओवरटाइम मजदूर कानून designed to dissuade or prevent नियोक्ता from forcing their employees to work excessively long hours.
These laws may take into account other considerations than the humanitarian, such as preserving the health of workers so that they may continue to be उत्पादक, or increasing the overall स्तर of नियुक्ति in the economy.
One common दृष्टिकोण to regulating overtime is to require employers to अदा workers at a higher hourly रेट for overtime work.
Companies may choose to pay workers higher overtime pay even if नहीं obliged to do so by law, विशेषकर if they believe कि they फेस a backward bending supply वक्र of श्रमिक.
Overtime pay दरों can cause workers to work longer hours than they would at a चपटा hourly rate.
Overtime laws, attitudes toward ओवरटाइम और घंटों of कार्य vary greatly from country to country and between अलग आर्थिक सेक्टर.
Visualization of कड़ी between pages on a wiki using a force-directed layout.
Force-directed आलेख drawing algorithms are a class of algorithms for आरेखण रेखाचित्र in an aesthetically pleasing way.
Their purpose is to स्थिति the नोड of a graph in two-dimensional or three-dimensional space so that all the edges हैं of more or less equal length and there are as few crossing edges as possible, by assigning शक्तियां among the नियत of edges and the set of नोड, based on their सापेक्ष स्थितियाँ, and then using these forces either to सिमुलेट the motion of the edges और nodes or to minimize उनके energy.
While graph आरेखण can be a difficult problem, force-directed algorithms, being शारीरिक simulations, प्रायः require no special ज्ञान परिचय आलेख सिद्धान्त ऐसे as planarity.
खरीदना power ( sometimes retroactively called adjusted for inflation ) is the राशि of goods or सेवाएं कि can be purchased साथ a ईकाई of currency.
लिये example, if तुम था लिया one डालर to a स्टोर in the 1950s, you would have महरूम समर्थ to ख़रीदे a वृहद number of वस्तुएं than you would आज, indicating that you would have था a वृहद खरीदना शक्ति in the 1950s.
Currency can be either a commodity धन, जैसे सुनहरा or चांदी, or fiat करेंसी, or free-floating market-valued currency like us डॉलर.
as Adam Smith विख्यात, having money gives एक the क्षमता to `` कमांड '' अन्य ' मजदूर, so purchasing power to कुछ extent is power over other people, to the extent that वे are willing to trade their मजदूर or goods for money or currency.
if one 's monetary आय stays the वही, लकिन the price स्तर increases, the purchasing power of that आय falls.
Inflation करता not always imply गिरना purchasing power of one 's money income since it may rise faster than the price स्तर.
A उच्चतर real income अर्थात् a higher खरीदना power since real income refers to the आय समायोजित for महंगाई.
For a price अनुक्रमणिका, इसके value in the base साल is usually normalized to a मान of 100.
The खरीदना power of a ईकाई of currency, कह a dollar, in a given साल, expressed in dollars of the base year, is 100/p, जहाँ P is the price अनुक्रमणिका in कि साल.
so, by परिभाषा the purchasing power of a dollar decreases as the price level उदय.
The purchasing शक्ति in today 's धन of an amount c of money, t सालो into the भविष्य, can be computed with the सूत्र for the उपस्थित मान :
where in इस मामला i is an assumed भविष्य annual inflation rate.
Education in दक्षिण कोरियाई is viewed as होने निर्णायक लिये कामयाबी and competition is consequently very heated and fierce.
A सेंट्रल administration oversees the प्रक्रम for the शिक्षा of children from किंडरगार्टन to the third और final year of ऊँची स्कूल.
Mathematics, science, Korean, English, और social studies हैं generally माना to be the most important subjects.
सामान्यतः physical शिक्षा is not considered महत्वपूर्ण as it is not recognised, by the generally अकादमिक elitist South Korean populace, as education and इसलिए many schools lack high-quality gymnasiums and varsity athletics.
दक्षिण Korea was the first देश in the world to provide high-speed internet access to all primary, junior, और high schools.
Although South कोरियाई विद्यार्थी often रैंक अत्यधिक on international comparative assessments जब compared to विद्यार्थी of most Western education प्रणालियों, the दक्षिण Korean शिक्षा प्रणाली is criticised for emphasising too much upon passive learning and memorisation.
The South Korean शिक्षा system is बल्कि notably strict और overly structured as compared to its counterparts in most पश्चिमी societies.
Also, the prevalence of non-school for-profit private institutes such as academies or cram-schools ( Hagwon [ 학원 ] ), which too emphasise on passive memorisation, as opposed to conceptual समझना, in students are criticised as a प्रमुख social problem.
the my lai Massacre (, ;,, or ) was the Vietnam War mass murder of between 347 और 504 निहत्थे नागरिकों in South वियतनाम on कूच 16, 1968, by संयुक्त States फौज soldiers of `` चार्ली '' कम्पनी of 1st Battalion, 20th Infantry Regiment, 11th Brigade of the Americal Division.
Victims included महिलाओं, मेन, children, और infants.
कुछ of the महिलाओं were gang-raped and their bodies यहूद later found to be mutilated and अनेक महिलाओं यहूद allegedly raped prior to the killings.
जबकि 26 u.S. सैनिको यहूद initially चार्ज with criminal offenses for उनके actions at mỹ Lai, only दूसरी Lieutenant विलियम calley, a प्लाटून leader in चार्ली कम्पनी, was convicted.
मिला guilty of हत्या 22 ग्रामीणों, he थी originally given a life sentence, but तभी परोसा three और a हाफ सालो under house arrest.
the massacre took place in the hamlets of my lai और my khe of Son My village.
the इवेंट is भी known as the बेटे my Massacre, विशेषकर in the Vietnamese state media.
the U.S. military codeword for the `` viet cong stronghold '' was `` pinkville ''.
The incident prompted वैश्विक outrage जब it became पब्लिक ज्ञान in 1969.
The नरसंहार भी increased domestic opposition to the u.S. involvement in the वियतनाम युद्ध.
तीन U.S. servicemen who had आजमाया to halt the massacre and protect the wounded were initially denounced by several u.s. कांग्रेसियों as traitors.
They received नफ़रत mail और death खतरे and मिला mutilated animals on their doorsteps.
the तीन were later widely praised और decorated by the Army for उनके heroic क्रियाएँ.
the hijackers in the सितंबर 11 हमले were 19 men affiliated with al-qaeda, और 15 of the 19 were citizens of सऊदी अरब.
Others were इससे मिश्र, Lebanon, और the UAE.
the hijackers यहूद व्यवस्थित into चार teams, each led by a pilot-trained hijacker साथ चार `` muscle hijackers '' जो were trained to help subdue the pilots, passengers, and क्रू.
The पहला hijackers to arrive in the United राज्य were Khalid al-mihdhar and Nawaf al-Hazmi, who settled in the सैन Diego क्षेत्रफल in जनवरी 2000.
They were followed by तीन hijacker-pilots, Mohamed Atta, Marwan al-Shehhi, and ziad Jarrah जल्दी in the गर्मियाँ of 2000 to undertake flight प्रशिक्षण in दक्षिण फ्लोरिडा.
The fourth hijacker-pilot, Hani Hanjour, arrived in सैन Diego in दिसम्बर 2000.
The बाकी of the `` muscle hijackers '' arrived in the वसन्त and early summer of 2001, just months before the सितंबर 11 हमले.
Abū al-qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd allāh इब्न ʿAbd al-muṭṭalib ibn Hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 जून 632 ), भी transliterated as मुहम्मद ( ), was a धार्मिक, political, and सैन्य leader इससे Mecca जो एकीकृत अरब into a सिंगल religious polity अंतर्गत Islam.
he is believed by Muslims and bahá'ís to be a messenger and prophet of God.
Muhammad is लगभग universally considered by Muslims as the last prophet sent by परमेश्वर for mankind.
Non-Muslims लिहाज़ मुहम्मद as the founder of Islam.
Muslims consider him to be the restorer of an unaltered असली monotheistic faith of आदम, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, और other नबियों.
Born in about 570 CE in the Arabian नगर of Mecca, he was अनाथ at an जल्दी आयु and brought up अंतर्गत the care of his uncle Abu Talib.
He later worked ज़्यादातर as a merchant, as well as a shepherd, और थी first married by आयु 25.
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a cave in the surrounding mountains लिये several नाइट्स of seclusion और दुआ, he later reported कि it थी वहीँ, at आयु 40, that he received उसके first revelation from God.
Three years बाद this इवेंट मुहम्मद started preaching ये revelations publicly, proclaiming कि `` परमेश्वर is एक ``, कि complete `` आत्मसमर्पण '' to Him ( lit.
islām ) is the only way ( dīn ) acceptable to परमेश्वर, and that he खुद थी a prophet and messenger of God, in the same vein as other इस्लामी prophets.
Muhammad gained few followers जल्दी on, and was met साथ hostility from some meccan tribes ; he and उसके अनुसरणकर्ता were treated harshly.
to एस्केप persecution, Muhammad sent some of his followers to Abyssinia पहले he and his followers in Mecca migrated to मदीना ( तब known as yathrib ) in the year 622.
इस event, the हिज्र, marks the beginning of the इस्लामी पंचांग, which is also known as the Hijri Calendar.
In मदीना, Muhammad united the जनजातियों अंतर्गत the संविधान of मदीना.
बाद eight सालो of लड़ with the Meccan tribes, his अनुसरणकर्ता, who by तब had grown to 10,000, took control of मक्का in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca.
He destroyed the pagan idols in the city और then sent his followers out to destroy सब of the remaining pagan temples in Eastern अरब.
In 632, a few महीने after returning to Medina from the विदाई Pilgrimage, Muhammad fell ill and died.
by the समय of his death, most of the arabian Peninsula had परिवर्तित to Islam, and he था united अरब into a सिंगल Muslim धार्मिक polity.
The खुलासे ( or ayah, lit.
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — which Muhammad reported receiving until उसके मौत – form the आयतें of the कुरान, regarded by मुसलमान as the `` Word of God '' and around which the धर्म is आधारित.
besides the Quran, Muhammad 's life ( sira ) and परंपराओं ( sunnah ) हैं भी upheld by Muslims as the sources of sharia विधि.
They discuss मुहम्मद और other prophets of Islam साथ reverence, adding the phrase peace be upon him whenever their names हैं उल्लेखित.
While conceptions of Muhammad in मध्यकालीन Christendom और premodern टाइम्स were largely negative, appraisals in modern इतिहास have been दूर कम so.
This is a list of टेबल of the verified oldest people in the संसार in ordinal rank, ऐसे as oldest व्यक्ति or oldest man.
In these tables, a supercentenarian is माना 'verified ' if उसके or her claim रै महरूम validated by an international देह कि specifically deals in longevity research, such as the Gerontology शोध Group ( GRG ) or गिनीज World रिकॉर्ड.
the longest unambiguously documented इंसान lifespan is कि of Jeanne Calment of France ( 1875–1997 ), who died at age 122 सालो, 164 दिनों.
वो met विंसेंट van Gogh when she थी 12 or 13.
This led to news मीडिया ध्यान in 1985, after calment turned 110.
Subsequent investigation found documentation लिये Calment 's आयु, beyond any reasonable सवाल, in the records of उसके native नगर, Arles, फ़्रांस.
More evidence of calment 's जीवनकाल has महरूम उत्पादित than for any अन्य supercentenarian ; उसके case serves as an archetype in the methodology for verifying the आयु of the संसार 's oldest लोगों.
The longest undisputed lifespan for पुरूष supercentenarians is that of Jiroemon किमुरा, जो फिलहाल lives in Japan and is age as of.
चूंकि the death of 115-year old दीना Manfredini of the संयुक्त States, on 17 दिसम्बर 2012, किमुरा, born 19 अप्रैल 1897, is the oldest living व्यक्ति in the संसार whose age can be documented.
he has भी महरूम the oldest जीना man since the death of 114-year old Walter breuning on 14 April 2011.
Since the death of 115-year बूढ़ा Koto okubo of जापानी on 12 जनवरी 2013, the oldest जीना स्त्री has been -year-old Misao Okawa, भी from Japan, born on 5 कूच 1898.
This is a timeline of the African-American Civil अधिकारों गति.
the सिविल Rights गति was a freedom struggle by अफ़्रीकी Americans in the 1950s और 1960s to लाभ समता.
the लक्ष्य of the movement यहूद freedom from पक्षपात, बराबर opportunity in नियुक्ति, education and housing, the right to vote और बराबर access to public facilities.
Heavy मेटल ( often referred to as metal ) is a विधा of rock music कि developed in the लेट 1960s और जल्दी 1970s, largely in the United Kingdom और in the United राज्य.
साथ जड़ें in ब्लूज़ rock and साइकेडेलिक चट्टान, the bands that created heavy metal विकसित a thick, massive ध्वनि, characterized by अत्यधिक प्रवर्धित distortion, extended guitar solos, emphatic बीट्स, and overall loudness.
Heavy metal lyrics and performance शैलियाँ are generally associated साथ मर्दानगी and machismo.
The पहला भारी metal bands such as led zeppelin, Deep जामुनी and Black Sabbath आकर्षित विशाल audiences, हालांकि they यहूद प्रायः derided by critics, a status common throughout the history of the विधा.
In the mid-1970s Judas पुजारी helped spur the genre 's एवोल्यूशन by discarding much of इसके blues influence ; Motörhead introduced a punk rock sensibility and an increasing जोर on speed.
Bands in the नई वेव of British भारी Metal such as Iron maiden followed in a समान रग.
Before the समाप्त of the दशक, भारी मेटल fans became known as `` metalheads `` or `` headbangers ``.
दौरान the 1980s, glam metal became a वाणिज्यिक force with groups like Mötley Crüe and Poison.
Underground scenes produced an array of more चरम, aggressive शैलियाँ : thrash metal broke into the mainstream साथ bands ऐसे as मेटालिका, Megadeth, slayer, and एंथ्रेक्स, जबकि अन्य styles of the सबसे चरम subgenres of metal like मौत metal and ब्लैक मेटल remain subcultural phenomena.
Since the mid-1990s, popular शैलियाँ ऐसे as nu metal, which often incorporates तत्व of grunge and hip hop ; और metalcore, which मिश्रणों extreme metal साथ हार्डकोर punk, have further expanded the परिभाषा of the विधा.
The far-right ( भी known as the चरम right ) refers to the उच्चतम degree of rightism in right-wing politics.
Far right राजनीती involves support of दमदार or complete social hierarchy in society, और supports supremacy of निश्चित individuals or समूह deemed to be innately श्रेष्ठ or preferable जो are to be अधिक valued than those deemed to be innately inferior or undesirable.
The दूर सही 's वकालत of supremacism is based on कया its adherents perceive as innate विशेषताएँ of people that can not be बदला.
इस stands as a पाइंट of difference with the centre-right 's आरोपण of behaviours, ऐसे as आलस्य or decadence, as the प्राथमिक sources of social inequalities.
The centre right—unlike the far right—claims that people can end उनके behavioural हीनता through बदलना their आदतें और choices.
The original far right, जिससे उभरा in France after the French Revolution, refused to accept the French Republic और supported a counter-revolution to restore the French साम्राज्य and aristocracy.
the दूर सही is commonly associated with व्यक्तियों or समूह who थाम चरम राष्ट्रवादी, xenophobic, जातिवाद, religious fundamentalist or प्रतिक्रियावादी दृश्य.
The सबसे extreme-right आंदोलनों have pursued दमन और नरसंहार विरूद्ध समूह of लोगों on the basis of their alleged inferiority.
Thomas hobbes of malmesbury ( 5 April 1588 – 4 December 1679 ), in कुछ पुरानी texts थामस हाब्स of Malmsbury, was an English पारस, बेहतरीन ज्ञात today for his work on political दर्शनशास्त्र.
His 1651 book Leviathan established the न्यास for most of पश्चिमी political philosophy इससे the perspective of सोशल contract theory.
hobbes was a चैंपियन of absolutism लिये the sovereign, but he also विकसित some of the fundamentals of यूरोपीय liberal विचार : the right of the individual ; the natural समता of all men ; the artificial character of the political order ( जिससे led to the later distinction between civil समाज and the राज्य ) ; the view that all legitimate political शक्ति must be `` representative '' और आधारित on the consent of the people ; and a उदार निर्वचन of law which leaves people फ़्री to do whatever the विधि करता not explicitly forbid.
he was one of the संस्थापकों of आधुनिक political philosophy.
His समझना of humans as being matter और motion, obeying the same physical laws as other matter and गति, remains influential ; and his account of इंसान प्रकृति as self-interested सहयोग, and of राजनैतिक communities as being आधारित upon a `` सोशल अनुबंध `` remains एक of the प्रमुख विषय of political philosophy.
In जोड to राजनैतिक philosophy, Hobbes भी contributed to a diverse सरणी of other फ़ील्ड, सहित history, भूगोल, the physics of gases, धर्मशास्त्र, आचार, और general philosophy.
emotional प्रज्ञा ( EI ) is the ability to पहचानो, assess, और control the emotions of oneself, of अन्य, and of groups.
it can be विभाजित into क्षमता EI और trait EI.
क्षमता EI is usually measured using maximum प्रदर्शन tests and रै stronger संबंध साथ traditional intelligence, whereas trait EI is प्रायः measured using self-report questionnaires और रै stronger relationships with personality.
Criticisms have centered on whether EI is a real intelligence और whether it रै incremental validity over IQ and the Big पाँच व्यक्तित्व traits.
Heredity is the passing of traits to औलाद from its अभिभावक or ancestor.
This is the process by which an offspring cell or सजीव acquires or becomes predisposed to the विशेषताएँ of इसके parent cell or organism.
Through heredity, विसंगतियाँ exhibited by individuals can accumulate और कारण कुछ species to evolve.
The पढ़ाई of आनुवंशिकता in जीवविज्ञान is called आनुवंशिकी, जिससे शामिल the field of epigenetics.
For United States individual आय कर, adjusted gross income ( AGI ) is total gross income minus विशिष्ट reductions.
Taxable आय is adjusted gross income ऋण allowances लिये निजी exemptions और itemized deductions.
For most व्यक्तिगत tax purposes, AGI is अधिक relevant than gross income.
सकल आय is बिक्री दाम of goods or property, minus cost of the property sold, plus other income.
It includes मजदूरी, ब्याज, dividends, कारोबार income, rental आय, and all अन्य प्रकार of income.
Adjusted सकल आय is gross आय less deductions from a business or rental activity and 21 other specific वस्तुएं.
अनेक deductions ( e.g. medical expenses and विविध itemized deductions ) are limited आधारित on a प्रतिशत of AGI.
Certain phase outs, including those of निम्नतर tax rates और itemized deductions, are आधारित on स्तर of AGI.
Many राज्य आधार राज्य income कर on agi with निश्चित deductions.
`` Lazy नजर '' is the third सिंगल from silversun Pickups ' डेब्यू album Carnavas.
The बैंड performed the सोंग on the लेट Show साथ David Letterman, The Tonight Show साथ jay Leno, बाद साथ Jools Holland, और Last कॉल साथ Carson Daly.
the song is a playable track on Rock बैंड 2 and Guitar Hero : World Tour.
An वैकल्पिक संस्करण of the song, साथ a length of 7:27, थी निभाई on xmu before the shorter version थी निभाई on fm और अन्य XM channels.
This संस्करण थी प्रदर्शित on उनके demo CD ( जिससे प्रदर्शित early versions of चार tracks ).
A telephone उपसर्ग is the first नियत of अंक of a टेलीफोन number ; in the North अमरीकी क्रमांकन योजना countries ( country कोड 1 ), it is the first तीन digits of a seven-digit phone क्रमांक.
In अन्य countries दोनो the prefix and the number may have different lengths.
It shows which exchange the बाकी numbers refer to.
A पूरा telephone number is प्रायः बना up of country code ( जरूरी for international calls तभी ), क्षेत्रफल कोड ( जरूरी for calls between telephone क्षेत्रों ), उपसर्ग, और subscriber number.
Some places restrict निश्चित prefixes to फैक्स numbers or cell phones तभी ; in other places ऐसे समर्पित prefixes are नहीं प्रयुक्त.
As टेलीफोन technology advanced, the precise significance of the prefix became blurred in अनेक स्थान ; 485 in लंदन, UK, was once the GULliver exchange, लकिन now 44207485xxxx is just माना one of many number ब्लॉक served by the CLKEN Kentish Town exchange ; 4420770703xx is another.
metformin ( BP, pronounced, ; originally sold as glucophage ) is an oral antidiabetic ड्रग in the biguanide class.
It is the first-line ड्रग of choice लिये the उपचार of type 2 diabetes, in particular, in overweight और obese people and those with normal kidney function.
इसके use in गर्भकालीन diabetes has been सीमित by safety concerns.
It is भी used in the treatment of polycystic ovary syndrome, and रै महरूम investigated लिये अन्य diseases where insulin प्रतिरोध may be an महत्वपूर्ण फ़ैक्टर.
metformin works by suppressing glucose production by the liver.
Metformin is the only antidiabetic drug that रै been conclusively shown to prevent the cardiovascular complications of diabetes.
It helps reduce LDL कोलेस्ट्रॉल and triglyceride levels, and is नहीं associated साथ वज़न लाभ.
, metformin is एक of only two oral antidiabetics in the संसार Health Organization Model सूची of अनिवार्य Medicines ( the other होने glibenclamide ).
When विहित appropriately, metformin कल्याणकारी few adverse effects ( the most common is gastrointestinal upset ) and is associated साथ a कम risk of hypoglycemia.
Lactic acidosis ( a buildup of lactate in the blood ) can be a गंभीर concern in overdose और when it is prescribed to people साथ contraindications, लकिन otherwise, वहीँ is no significant risk.
First synthesized and मिला to reduce blood sugar in the 1920s, metformin was forgotten for the next दो decades as research shifted to इंसुलिन and अन्य antidiabetic दवाएँ.
ब्याज in metformin was rekindled in the late 1940s after several reports that it could reduce रक्त शुगर स्तर in लोगों, और in 1957, फ्रेंच physician Jean sterne published the पहला clinical trial of metformin as a उपचार लिये मधुमेह.
it was introduced to the संयुक्त Kingdom in 1958, Canada in 1972, और the United States in 1995.
metformin is अभी believed to be the most widely विहित antidiabetic ड्रग in the संसार ; in the संयुक्त States अलोन, अधिक than 48 लाख prescriptions यहूद filled in 2010 for its जेनेरिक formulations.
the Mount rushmore National मेमोरियल is a मूर्तिकला carved into the granite फेस of माउंट rushmore निकट Keystone, South डकोटा, in the United राज्य.
sculpted by Danish-American Gutzon Borglum and उसके son, lincoln Borglum, Mount Rushmore features sculptures of the heads of चार संयुक्त States presidents : George वॉशिंगटन, थामस Jefferson, थियोडोर Roosevelt और Abraham lincoln.
The entire मेमोरियल covers and is ऊपर sea level.
The tallest पहाड़ in the प्रदेश is Harney Peak ( ).
South डकोटा इतिहासकार दोने रॉबिन्सन is credited साथ conceiving the idea of carving the likenesses of famous people into the ब्लैक पहाड़ियाँ प्रदेश of South Dakota in order to promote tourism in the प्रदेश.
रॉबिन्सन 's आरंभिक विचार थी to sculpt the Needles ; however, gutzon Borglum rejected the needles site क्युकी of the ग़रीब quality of the ग्रेनाइट and दमदार विपक्ष from पर्यावरणविद and देशी अमरीकी groups.
वे settled on the Mount rushmore location, which भी रै the advantage of facing southeast for अधिकतम सूर्य exposure.
Robinson wanted it to feature western नायक जैसे लुईस और Clark, Red बादल and Buffalo Bill Cody but Borglum decided the sculpture चाहिए have a अधिक national फ़ोकस, और chose the चार राष्ट्रपतियों whose likenesses would be carved into the पहाड़.
बाद securing federal funding, construction on the memorial began in 1927, and the presidents ' faces were समाप्त between 1934 and 1939.
upon gutzon Borglum 's death in March 1941, उसके son lincoln Borglum took over निर्माण.
Although the initial concept called for each अध्यक्ष to be चित्रित इससे सिर to waist, lack of funding forced निर्माण to end in late October 1941.
The U.S. नेशनल Park सेवा took control of the मेमोरियल in 1933, while it was still under construction, and has प्रबंधित the memorial to the present दिन.
it attracts nearly तीन million लोगों annually.
Charvet पोशाक shirt from the 1930s, Norsk Folkemuseum, Oslo.
A shirt, dress shirt, button-front, button-front shirt, or button-up shirt is a परिधान साथ a collar, a full-length opening at the front from the collar to the हेम, and sleeves साथ cuffs.
शर्ट are predominantly used by मेन, since women usually पहनें blouses.
The सामने opening is fastened using buttons or studs, and the cuffs close with बटन or cuff links.
Shirts हैं normally बना from woven cloth, और are प्रायः accompanied by a jacket and tie, for example with a suit or formalwear, लकिन shirts are भी worn अधिक casually.
In British अंग्रेज़ी, dress shirt अर्थात् specifically the अधिक formal evening garment worn साथ black- or white- टाई, also discussed below.
Some of ये formal शर्ट have stiff fronts and detachable collars attached with collar studs.
The पद `` button-down '' ( which refers a type of कमीज़ which has a कॉलर fastened down by buttons ) is sometimes used in error to लागू to सब shirts ( साथ or बगैर buttoned down छल्लों ), being प्रयुक्त as a पर्याय लिये `` button-up '' or `` button-front ''.
Administrative Professionals Day ( भी known as Secretaries दिन or Admin Day ) is an unofficial धर्मनिरपेक्ष अवकाश observed in अनेक देशों to recognize the work of secretaries, administrative assistants, receptionists, and other administrative support पेशेवर.
in North America, it is मनाये on the Wednesday of the last full week of अप्रैल ( अप्रैल 24 in 2013 ).
In France it is celebrated on the third Thursday in April ( अप्रैल 18 in 2013 ).
In Australia it is मनाये on the पहला शुक्रवार in May
Blasting can be:
Abrasive धमाकेदार
Blast furnace
Rock blasting
निकोलस Poussin ( ; 15 June 1594 – 19 November 1665 ) was the leading painter of the शास्त्रीय फ्रेंच बरॉक स्टाइल, although he spent most of his working life in रोम.
उसके work is characterized by clarity, logic, और अनुक्रम, और favors line over color.
जबतक the 20th century he remained a प्रमुख प्रेरणा for such classically उन्मुख कलाकारों as Jacques-Louis David, Jean-Auguste-Dominique ingres और पॉल Cézanne.
he worked in Rome लिये a वृत्त of leading collectors there and elsewhere, except for a short period जब Cardinal रिचलू ordered उसे वापस to France to serve as First चित्रकार to the किंग.
Most of उसके works are इतिहास paintings of religious or पौराणिक विषय that बहुत often have a विशाल लैंडस्केप element.
जैकी Keith whitley ( जुलाई 1, 1954stambler, Irwin, and grelun Landon ( 2000 ). - Country Music : the ज्ञानकोष. - नई York : st. Martin 's Press. - p.533. - ISBN 978-0-312-26487-1.—carlin, Richard ( 2003 ). - Country Music : A biographical Dictionary. - नई York : Routledge - p.427. - ISBN 978-0-415-93802-0.—larkin, Colin ( 1995 ). - the Guinness Encyclopedia of Popular Music. - New यॉर्क : Stockton Press - P.4462. - ISBN 978-0-85112-662-3.—Stanton, स्कॉट ( 2003 ). - The tombstone Tourist : Musicians. - New York : Pocket किताबे. - p.395. - ISBN 978-0-7434-6330-0.—hicks, Jack. - `` Singer Keith whitley 's मेमोरी Alive Through गीतों, प्रेम in घर कस्बा ''. - The केंटकी Post. - September 25, 1991.— '' देश Music Star कैथ Whitley मुर्दे at 33 ''. - Lexington Herald-Leader. - May 10, 1989.——hurst, जोकर. - `` Whitley 's पिछला दिनों ''. - Chicago ट्रिब्यून. - may 14, 1989.— '' Alcohol मारता Country Singer कैथ Whitley ''. - United Press अंतरराष्ट्रीय. - ( c/o the सैन फ्रांसिस्को वृत्तान्त ). - may 10, 1989. — May 9, 1989 ), known professionally as कैथ whitley, थी an American देश music सिंगर.
whitley 's brief करियर in mainstream देश म्यूज़िक lasted from 1984 until उसके मौत in 1989, but he continues to influence an संपूर्ण पीढी of गायकों and songwriters.
He charted 19 singles on the Billboard country charts, including five consecutive Number ones : `` Do n't Close Your Eyes ``, `` जब तुम Say nothing at All ``, `` i 'm No अजनबी to the बरसात ``, `` I Wonder do You सोचो of Me `` और `` it Ai n't Nothin ' `` ( the last two मरणोपरांत ).
Statute of Grand duchy of Lithuania, written in Polish
a statute is a औपचारिक लिखा enactment of a legislative authority कि governs a राज्य, city, or काउंटी.
Typically, statutes command or prohibit something, or declare नीति.
the शब्द is often used to फर्क विधि made by विधान लाशें इससे case law, decided by न्यायालयों, and regulations issued by सरकारी एजेंसियों.
Statutes हैं sometimes referred to as विधान or `` black letter law. ''
As a source of law, statutes are considered प्राथमिक प्राधिकार ( as opposed to secondary प्राधिकार ).
ideally all statutes must be in harmony with the fundamental law of the land ( constitutional ).
इस शब्द is प्रयुक्त in contradistinction to the आम law.
Statutes acquire उनके force इससे the time of their ड्योढ़ी, however unless otherwise provided.
statutes are of अनेक kinds ; namely, पब्लिक or निजी.
Declaratory or remedial.
अस्थाई or perpetual.
A temporary statute is one which is सीमित in इसके duration at the time of इसके enactment.
It continues in फ़ोर्स until the समय of its limitation has expired, जबतक sooner repealed.
A perpetual statute is एक for the continuance of which there is no limited समय, हालांकि it may नहीं be expressly declared to be so.
If, however, a statute which किया नहीं itself contain कोई limitation is to be governed by another which is अस्थाई only, the former will also be अस्थाई और निर्भर upon the अस्तित्व of the latter.
Before a statute becomes law in कुछ countries, it जरूर be agreed upon by the highest कार्यपालिका in the सरकारी, और finally published as part of a code.
In many देशों, statutes are organized in topical arrangements ( or `` संहिताबद्ध '' ) भीतर publications पुकारा codes, such as the संयुक्त States कोड.
In many nations statutory law is distinguished इससे and subordinate to संवैधानिक law.
The external iliac arteries are two major arteries which bifurcate बंद the common iliac धमनियों anterior to the sacroiliac संयुक्त of the pelvis.
They proceed anterior और inferior साथ the medial border of the psoas major muscles.
वे exit the pelvic girdle posterior और अवर to the वंक्षण ligament about one तीसरा laterally इससे the प्रविष्ट point of the वंक्षण ligament on the जननांग tubercle at which point वे are referred to as the नैया arteries.
the external iliac artery is usually the artery used to attach the renal धमनी to the प्राप्तकर्ता of a kidney transplant.
Steam is a digital distribution, डिजिटल अधिकारों management, एकाधिक and communications platform विकसित by Valve निगम.
It is प्रयुक्त to वितरित games और related media ऑनलाइन, from small independent डेवलपर to larger तन्त्र घरों ; in October 2012, वाल्व विस्तारित the service to include non-gaming तन्त्र.
Steam provides the user साथ संस्थापना and automatic management of software आरपार multiple computers, community features ऐसे as मित्रों lists and groups, cloud saving, and in-game आवाज़ and chat कार्यक्षमता.
The तन्त्र provides a freely उपलब्धियाँ अनुप्रयोग programming interface, steamworks, that डेवलपर can take advantage of to integrate अनेक of Steam 's functions भीतर उनके तन्त्र products, सहित copy protection, नेटवर्किंग and matchmaking, in-game उपलब्धियाँ और micro-transactions, और support लिये user-created सामग्री through Steam Workshop.
Though initially विकसित for use on microsoft खिड़कियाँ, the client has विस्तारित to include os X और लिनक्स संस्करण, और क्लाइंट साथ limited कार्यक्षमता on the PlayStation 3 console और लिये both iOS और Android mobile devices.
In addition to being a central hub for gaming software, Valve रै created a संस्करण of भाप with altered functionality to be used in स्कूलों for educational software, including a modified संस्करण of Portal 2 for शिक्षण science and critical thinking lessons.
, there are nearly 2000 games available through Steam, and 54 million क्रियाशील उपयोक्ता accounts.
As of जनवरी 2013, भाप has देखी over 6.6 million संयुक्त खिलाड़ी.
भाप has an estimated 50–70 % share of the डिजिटल वितरण मार्केट लिये video games.
the Steam logo is a stylised left-side fly-crank और rod from the Walschaerts valve gear of a steam locomotive.
जेरी Lewis ( born March 16, 1926 ) is an American हास्य, actor, सिंगर, फिल्मी निर्माता, screenwriter and फिल्मी director.
he is ज्ञात for उसके slapstick humor in फिल्मी, टेलीविज़न, stage और radio.
he was originally paired up साथ डीन Martin in 1946, forming the famed comedy team of Martin और Lewis.
In addition to the duo 's popular nightclub work, वे स्ट्रक्चर in a successful श्रेणी of कॉमेडी films लिये Paramount तस्वीरें.
Lewis is भी known for his charity fund-raising telethons और स्थिति as नेशनल chairman for the Muscular Dystrophy Association ( mda ).
लुईस has जीती several awards लिये lifetime achievements from The अमरीकी Comedy Awards, Los Angeles Film Critics Association, और Venice Film Festival, और he has two सितारों on the हॉलीवुड Walk of कीर्ति.
in 2005, he received the Governors Award of the Academy of Television कला & sciences फलक of राज्यपालों, which is the उच्चतम Emmy Award presented.
on फ़रवरी 22, 2009, the Academy of Motion चित्र कला and sciences awarded लुईस the Jean hersholt Humanitarian पुरस्कार.
the राइन ( ; ; ) is a European नदी that रनों इससे the Swiss canton of Grisons in the southeastern स्विस Alps through जर्मनी और eventually बहती into the उत्तर Sea coast in the Netherlands और is the twelfth longest नदी in Europe, at about, with an average discharge of more than.
The Rhine and the Danube formed most of the northern अंतर्देशीय frontier of the रोमन Empire और, चूंकि those दिनों, the राइन has been a vital and navigable जलमार्ग carrying trade and goods deep inland.
It has also served as a defensive feature and has been the आधार for क्षेत्रीय and international borders.
the अनेक castles and prehistoric fortifications साथ the राइन गवाही to its importance as a waterway.
River traffic could be रोका at these locations, usually लिये the purpose of collecting tolls, by the state कि controlled that portion of the river.
Sri ( Sinhala )
Sri ( Devanagari : श्री, iast ; śrī ), also transliterated as sree or shri or Shree is a word of संस्कृत origin, used in the Indian subcontinent as polite रूप of address equivalent to the English `` Mr. '' in written and बोला भाषा, or as a title of veneration for deities ( usually translated as `` Holy '' ).
डिज़ाइन of जटिल structures जैसे the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Space Station needs in-depth understanding of संरचनात्मक Analysis.
Civil अभियान्त्रिकी is a professional engineering अनुशासन कि सौदे with the डिज़ाइन, construction, और मेंटेनेंस of the शारीरिक और naturally built environment, सहित works like सड़कें, bridges, canals, dams, और buildings.
Civil engineering is the oldest अभियान्त्रिकी discipline after military अभियान्त्रिकी, और it थी defined to फर्क non-military अभियान्त्रिकी इससे military engineering.
It is traditionally broken into अनेक sub-disciplines सहित पर्यावरणीय engineering, geotechnical अभियान्त्रिकी, geophysics, geodesy, control engineering, संरचनात्मक अभियान्त्रिकी, biomechanics, nanotechnology, परिवहन अभियान्त्रिकी, धरती विज्ञान, वायुमंडलीय sciences, forensic अभियान्त्रिकी, municipal or शहरी अभियान्त्रिकी, water संसाधन अभियान्त्रिकी, materials engineering, coastal अभियान्त्रिकी, surveying, and construction engineering.
Civil engineering takes प्लेस on सब स्तर : in the public sector from municipal through to national governments, और in the private सेक्टर from individual homeowners through to international कंपनियाँ.
कैथरीन dunham in Tropical revue
Katherine Dunham in Studio
कैथरीन dunham in तीव्र Review तीव्र Review, Martin बेक Theatre
कैथरीन dunham wearing नृत्य वेशभूषा
कैथरीन Dunham in cumbia
कैथरीन Dunham ( June 22, 1909 – may 21, 2006 ) थी an American नर्तकी, choreographer, author, educator, और सोशल activist.
Dunham था एक of the most successful नृत्य करियर in अमरीकी and European theater of the 20th century, and directed her अपना नृत्य कम्पनी लिये many सालो.
She has महरूम called the `` matriarch and queen mother of black dance ''.
दौरान उसके heyday in the 1940s and 1950s, dunham was प्रसिद्ध throughout Europe and Latin America and was widely popular in the United राज्य, जहाँ the Washington Post called उसके `` नर्तकी Katherine the ग्रेट ''.
For लगभग तीस सालो she maintained the Katherine dunham नृत्य कम्पनी, the only self-supported American black नृत्य troupe at कि समय, and over her long career she choreographed more than ninety individual dances.
dunham was an innovator in African-American modern dance as well as a नेता in the field of नृत्य anthropology, or ethnochoreology.
Sphagnum is a genus of between 1510 और 3500 species of mosses, commonly पुकारा peat moss due to its prevalence in गीला habitats जहाँ it contributes to the formation of peat bogs and mires.
sphagnum accumulations can store water, since both जीना and dead plants can hold large quantities of water अंदर उनके कोशिकाएं ; plants may थाम from 16-26 times as much जल as उनके शुष्क weight depending on the species.
The empty कोशिकाएं सहायता retain water in drier conditions.
Hence, as sphagnum मॉस grows, it can slowly spread into drier conditions, forming larger peatlands, दोनो raised bogs और blanket bogs.
These peat accumulations तब provide आवास लिये a wide सरणी of peatland पौधे, including sedges और ericaceous shrubs, as खूब as orchids and carnivorous plants.
sphagnum and the peat formed इससे it do not decay readily because of the phenolic compounds embedded in the मॉस 's कोशिका दीवारें.
In जोड, bogs, like सब wetlands, develop anaerobic soil conditions, which produces धीमा anaerobic क्षय rather than aerobic microbial action.
Peat moss can भी acidify its परिवेश by लेने up cations, ऐसे as calcium and मैग्नीशियम, और releasing hydrogen ions.
Under the right शर्तें, peat can accumulate to a गहराई of many meters.
अलग species of sphagnum have अलग सहिष्णुता limits for flooding and pH, so any one peatland may have a number of different sphagnum species.
Individual peat moss plants consist of a main stem, with tightly arranged clusters of branch fascicles usually consisting of two or three spreading branches और two to four hanging branches.
the शीर्ष of the संयंत्र, or capitulum, has compact clusters of young शाखाओं.
Along the stem are बिखरे leaves of various आकार, named stem leaves ; the आकार varies according to प्रजाति.
The leaves consist of दो kinds of cells ; small, green, जीना cells ( chlorophyllose cells ), and large, साफ, structural, मुर्दे cells ( hyaline cells ).
The latter have the large water-holding capacity.
The earliest संस्करण of the संजाल Card, issued manually rather than through an APTIS यंत्र.
the first aptis संस्करण of the संजाल कार्ड.
This was used from the प्रारंभ of the APTIS era in 1986/1987 until well into the 1990s, as stocks had to be used up despite the introduction of the new-look orange-banded version in 1991.
the परिचय of the weekday न्यूनतम fare condition in 2002 resulted in a minor change : the रेड `` R '' shows that इस is the `` संशोधित '' version of the railcard.
This version is still in use as of 2007.
The Network railcard is a discount card introduced in 1986 by अंग्रेजों रेल, upon the सृष्टि of उनके Network southeast area around लंदन, England.
the कार्ड is intended to प्रोत्साहित अवकाश travel by रेल by offering छूट लिये वयस्कों और accompanying children on a wide range of off-peak fares.
The range of discounts उपलब्धियाँ, और the दाम of the कार्ड, have varied since कि time, लकिन the कार्ड has सदा been valid लिये a साल 's unlimited use.
It can be purchased by any व्यक्ति aged 16 or over from कोई staffed नेशनल Rail station or रेल नियुक्त Travel Agent, by completing an application form - no photographic identification or other दस्तावेज़ीकरण is needed to ख़रीदे or use the card.
It is एक of a number of concessionary fare योजनाएं उपलब्धियाँ on the British railway system.
the United Nations ( un ; फ्रेंच : Organisation des Nations unies, onu ) is the world 's largest, foremost, और सबसे prominent international organization.
The stated aims of the संयुक्त Nations शामिल promoting और facilitating सहयोग in international law, international security, economic विकास, social progress, इंसान rights, सिविल rights, civil liberties, political freedoms, लोकतंत्र, और the achievement of lasting world सलाम.
the un was founded in 1945 बाद World War II to बदलें the League of Nations, to stop युद्धों between देशों, और to provide a मंच लिये संवाद.
It contains multiple subsidiary संगठन to carry out इसके मिशन.
At इसके founding, the un had 51 member राज्य ; as of 2011, there हैं 193.
इससे its कार्यालयों around the संसार, the UN और इसके specialized एजेंसियों decide on सत्य and administrative issues in regular meetings आयोजित throughout the साल.
the संगठन has छह principal organs : the General Assembly ( the main deliberative सभा ) ; the सुरक्षा परिषद ( for deciding certain resolutions for सलाम और security ) ; the Economic और सोशल Council ( लिये assisting in promoting अंतरराष्ट्रीय economic and सोशल सहयोग and विकास ) ; the सचिवालय ( for providing अध्ययन, information, और facilities needed by the un ) ; the अंतरराष्ट्रीय अदालत of Justice ( the primary न्यायिक organ ) ; and the United Nations ट्रस्टीशिप Council ( जिससे is फिलहाल inactive ).
Other prominent UN प्रणाली agencies include the संसार स्वास्थ्य Organization ( जो ), the World खाना Programme ( WFP ) and संयुक्त Nations children 's Fund ( UNICEF ).
The UN 's सबसे prominent स्थिति is कि of the दफ्तर of Secretary-General which रै been held by Ban Ki-moon of South Korea चूंकि 2007.
The संयुक्त राष्ट्र मुख्यालय resides in international territory in New यॉर्क नगर, साथ further प्रमुख offices at जेनेवा, नैरोबी, and Vienna.
the organization is financed from assessed और voluntary contributions इससे its member states, and has छह official languages : Arabic, चाइनीज, अंग्रेज़ी, French, रूसी, and स्पेनी.
South बीच, also nicknamed SoBe, is a पड़ोस in the city of Miami बीच, Florida, संयुक्त States, located due east of Miami नगर proper between Biscayne खाड़ी और the Atlantic Ocean.
The क्षेत्रफल encompasses सब of the barrier islands of मियामी Beach south of Indian Creek.
इस क्षेत्रफल थी the पहला section of Miami Beach to be विकसित, starting in the 1910s, thanks to the development efforts of कार्ल G. Fisher, the Lummus Brothers, and John S. कॉलिन्स, the latter whose construction of the Collins सेतु provided the पहला vital जमीन कड़ी between mainland मियामी और the समुद्रतट.
the area has गए through numerous कृत्रिम और natural परिवर्तन over the years, including a booming regional economy, increased tourism, and the 1926 hurricane, which destroyed much of the area.
as of 2010, परिचय 39,186 निवासियों live in South बीच.
The United States presidential election of 1960 थी the 44th quadrennial presidential election, आयोजित on मंगलवार, नवम्बर 8, 1960.
The Republican Party nominated लाज़िम Vice-President Richard Nixon, जबकि the Democratic पार्टी nominated जॉन F. कैनेडी, Senator इससे मैसाचुसेट्स.
The incumbent अध्यक्ष, रिपब्लिकन Dwight D. आइज़नहावर, थी नहीं eligible for re-election after serving the अधिकतम two terms अनुमत by the Twenty-second amendment.
कैनेडी थी elected with a सीसे of 112,827 votes, or 0.17 % of the popular vote, giving him a विजय of 303 to 219 in the चुनावी College, the closest चूंकि 1916.
This थी the first election in which all पचास of the current United States participated.
A क्रमांक of factors explain why the election was so close.
Kennedy gained चूंकि there was an आर्थिक recession जिससे hurt the incumbent Republican, और he था the लाभ of 17 लाख more पंजीकृत डेमोक्रेट than Republicans.
furthermore, the नई मत that Kennedy gained among Catholics almost neutralized the नई votes Nixon gained among Protestants.
Kennedy 's campaigning skills decisively outmatched Nixon 's.
In the end, निक्सन 's emphasis on उसके अनुभव carried छोटी वज़न, और he wasted energy by campaigning in सब 50 states instead of concentrating on the झूले राज्य.
कैनेडी प्रयुक्त his विशाल, well-funded campaign संगठन to win the नामांकन, secure endorsements, और, with the सहायता of the last of the big-city bosses, to get out the vote in the big cities.
He relied on running mate Lyndon B. जॉनसन to थाम the दक्षिण और used television effectively.
इस election is notable as होने the पहला time in u.S. history कि two बैठे U.S. सीनेटरों ( Kennedy और जॉनसन ) were निर्वाचित as president और vice-president, a phenomenon कि has been repeated once, by बराक ओबामा और जो Biden in 2008 ( in both cases, the president was the younger, more junior सीनेटर ).
A poster लिये a c. 1884 American उत्पादन of Macbeth, अभिनीत Thomas W. Keene.
Depicted, counter clockwise इससे top-left, are : मैकबेथ and Banquo meet the witches ; just after the murder of डंकन ; Banquo 's भुत ; Macbeth duels macduff ; and Macbeth.
Macbeth is a play written by William Shakespeare.
It is considered एक of उसके darkest and most powerful tragedies.
Set in Scotland, the play dramatizes the corroding मनोवैज्ञानिक and राजनैतिक effects उत्पादित when its समर्थक, the Scottish रब Macbeth, chooses दुष्ट as the रास्ता to fulfill his ambition लिये power.
he commits regicide to become king और तब furthers his moral descent साथ a शासनकाल of murderous आतंक to stay in शक्ति, eventually plunging the country into civil war.
in the end, he loses सबकुछ कि देता अर्थ and purpose to उसके जीवन before losing उसके life itself.
The play is believed to have been written between 1603 and 1607, and is most commonly dated 1606.
The earliest account of a performance of what was probably शेक्सपियर 's play is April 1611, when Simon forman recorded देखकर ऐसे a खेल at the ग्लोब Theatre.
It थी first published in the Folio of 1623, possibly इससे a prompt किताब.
It थी most संभावित लिखा during the शासनकाल of James I, who था been James VI of स्कॉटलैंड before he succeeded to the अंग्रेज़ी throne in 1603.
जेम्स was a patron of shakespeare’s एक्टिंग company, and of सब the plays Shakespeare wrote during James’s reign, मैकबेथ सबसे clearly reflects the playwright’s relationship with the sovereign.
Macbeth is Shakespeare’s shortest tragedy, and tells the स्टोरी of a वीर स्कॉटिश general named मैकबेथ जो receives a prophecy from a trio of witches that एक दिन he will become किंग of स्कॉटलैंड.
Consumed by ambition and spurred to कार्रवाई by his बीवी, मैकबेथ murders King डंकन and takes the सिंहासन for खुद.
His शासनकाल is racked साथ guilt और paranoia, और he soon becomes a tyrannical शासक as he is forced to commit more and अधिक हत्याएं to protect himself इससे enmity और suspicion.
the bloodbath swiftly takes मैकबेथ and महिला मैकबेथ into realms of arrogance, madness, और death.
शेक्सपियर 's source लिये the tragedy is the account of King Macbeth of स्कॉटलैंड, macduff, and Duncan in Holinshed 's Chronicles ( 1587 ), a history of England, Scotland and Ireland परिचित to शेक्सपियर and his contemporaries, although the events in the play differ extensively from the history of the real Macbeth.
In the backstage world of theatre, some believe कि the खेल is cursed, और will not mention its शीर्षक aloud, referring to it instead as `` the स्कॉटिश खेल ``.
over the course of many centuries, the खेल रै आकर्षित कुछ of the most renowned actors to the भूमिकाएँ of Macbeth and महिला Macbeth.
It रै been adapted to फिल्मी, टेलीविज़न, opera, novels, कॉमिक किताबे, और अन्य media.
the Milton hershey School is a private परोपकारी ( pre-k through 12 ) boarding school in Hershey, पेन्सिलवेनिया.
Originally named the hershey औद्योगिक School, the institution was founded and funded by chocolate industrialist Milton Snavely hershey and उसके wife, कैथरीन Sweeney Hershey.
The school was originally established for impoverished, healthy, Caucasian, पुरूष orphans, while आज it serves विद्यार्थी of various backgrounds.
the Milton Hershey School Trust, जिससे funds the स्कूल, owns controlling ब्याज in the Hershey Company और owns the hershey Entertainment and Resorts कम्पनी ( HERCO ) जिससे oversees many of the area होटल along with a थीम park called hersheypark.
With over छह अरब डॉलर in assets, the Milton hershey स्कूल is one of the wealthiest schools in the world.
the school is overseen by a फलक of Managers.
The स्कूल फिलहाल serves 1,818 students, और योजनाएँ to grow to 2,100 students by 2013.
A member of CORE : Coalition for आवासीय Education, it is the largest आवासीय शिक्षा program in the us.
Epub may refer to:
EPUB, a free and open e-book मानक
इलेक्ट्रॉनिक article, articles in scholarly journals or मैगज़ीन that can be accessed via इलेक्ट्रॉनिक transmission
the नियंत्रित Substances Act ( CSA ) थी enacted into law by the Congress of the संयुक्त राज्य as शीर्षक ii of the व्यापक Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970.
The सीएसए is the संघीय U.S. drug नीति under which the manufacture, importation, possession, उपयोग and वितरण of निश्चित substances is regulated.
The अधिनियम also served as the national implementing विधान for the सिंगल Convention on narcotic Drugs.
The विधान created five Schedules ( classifications ), with varying योग्यता for a पदार्थ to be शामिल in each.
Two federal एजेंसियों, the Drug Enforcement Administration और the खाना और Drug Administration, determine जिससे substances are added to or removed from the various schedules, though the statute passed by Congress created the initial listing, और कॉंग्रेस रै sometimes scheduled other substances through legislation such as the hillory J. farias और Samantha Reid date-rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of 2000, जिससे placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I. वर्गीकरण decisions हैं जरूरी to be made on मापदण्ड including potential for गाली ( an undefined term ), currently स्वीकृत medical उपयोग in उपचार in the United States, और international treaties.
second-language अधिग्रहण or second-language सीखना is the प्रक्रम by जिससे लोगों learn a second भाषा.
second-language acquisition ( प्रायः abbreviated to sla ) also refers to the scientific अनुशासन devoted to अध्ययन that process.
Second भाषा refers to any language सीखे in addition to a व्यक्ति 's पहला भाषा ; although the concept is नामित second-language acquisition, it can also चरितार्थ the learning of third, fourth, or subsequent भाषाएं.
Second-language acquisition refers to what learners do ; it does not refer to practices in भाषा teaching.
the अकादमिक discipline of second-language acquisition is a subdiscipline of applied भाषाविज्ञान.
It is broad-based और relatively नई.
as well as the various branches of भाषाविज्ञान, second-language अधिग्रहण is भी closely सम्बन्धित to मनोविज्ञान, संज्ञानात्मक psychology, and education.
To separate the academic discipline from the सीखना process itself, the शर्तें second-language acquisition शोध, second-language studies, and second-language acquisition studies हैं भी used.
sla research began as an interdisciplinary फ़ील्ड, and क्युकी of इस it is मुश्किल to identify a precise starting तिथि.
However, it does appear to have developed a ग्रेट deal since the mid-1960s.
the पद अधिग्रहण was originally प्रयुक्त to emphasize the subconscious nature of the learning प्रक्रम, but in हाल years learning and अधिग्रहण have become largely synonymous.
Second-language acquisition can incorporate विरासत language सीखना, but it करता नहीं usually चरितार्थ bilingualism.
सबसे SLA शोधकर्ताओं see bilingualism as being the end result of सीखना a language, not the process itself, and see the term as referring to native-like fluency.
लेखक in fields ऐसे as education और मनोविज्ञान, however, often उपयोग bilingualism loosely to refer to all forms of बहुभाषिकता.
second-language acquisition is also नहीं to be contrasted साथ the acquisition of a foreign भाषा ; बल्कि, the सीखना of दूसरी languages और the सीखना of foreign languages involve the same fundamental प्रक्रियाओं in different situations..
वहीँ रै been much बहस about exactly कैसा language is learned, and अनेक issues are स्टिल अनसुलझे.
There are अनेक theories of second-language acquisition, but none are accepted as a पूरा explanation by all SLA शोधकर्ताओं.
due to the interdisciplinary nature of the फ़ील्ड of second-language acquisition, this is not expected to happen in the foreseeable भविष्य.
Forbes list of billionaires is an सालाना रैंकिंग of the संसार 's wealthiest people, compiled and प्रकाशित by फोर्ब्स, an American नेशनल कारोबार magazine.
The total net worth of प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत on the list is अनुमानित, in United States dollars, आधारित on उनके एसेट और accounting लिये debt.
the सूची only represents प्रत्येक व्यक्ति 's valuation on a single day, due to daily fluctuations among exchange दरों and stock valuations.
The United States रहस्य Service is a u.S. federal law enforcement agency that is part of the United States Department of Homeland Security.
The sworn members हैं विभाजित among the खास Agents और the uniformed Division.
जबतक March 1, 2003, the सेवा was part of the संयुक्त States Department of the Treasury.
the u.S. Secret Service has two distinct क्षेत्रों of responsibility:
Financial अपराधों, covering मिशन such as prevention और छानबीन of counterfeiting of U.S. currency and U.S. राजकोष प्रतिभूति, and छानबीन of प्रमुख धोखाधड़ी.
सुरक्षा, जिससे entails ensuring the safety of वर्तमान और former national नेताओ and उनके families, such as the अध्यक्ष, past presidents, वाइस presidents, presidential उम्मीदवार, visiting heads of state, और विदेशी embassies ( per an agreement साथ the u.S. राज्य Department 's Bureau of राजनयिक Security ( DS ) दफ्तर of विदेशी मिशन ( ofm ), etc. )
the Secret सेवा 's initial responsibility was to investigate counterfeiting of U.S. करेंसी, which थी rampant following the U.S. Civil War.
The एजेंसी then evolved into the United States ' पहला घरेलू प्रज्ञा और counterintelligence agency.
Many of the agency 's मिशन were बाद लिया over by subsequent एजेंसियों ऐसे as the Federal Bureau of छानबीन ( FBI ), Bureau of Alcohol, तम्बाकू, Firearms and विस्फोटक ( ATF ), Immigration and कस्टम Enforcement ( ICE ), and Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ).
`` me and Bobby mcgee '' is a song लिखा by Kris kristofferson and Fred फोस्टर, originally performed by रोजर Miller.
Others performed the song later, सहित kristofferson खुद, and Janis Joplin who अव्वल the U.S. singles chart with the song in 1971 after उसके death, making the song the दूसरी posthumous number-one सिंगल in U.S. चार्ट इतिहास after `` ( Sittin ' On ) the Dock of the Bay `` by Otis redding.
फ्रैंकलिन delano रूज़वेल्ट ( or ; January 30, 1882 – अप्रैल 12, 1945 ), भी known by his initials, FDR, was the 32nd अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य ( 1933–1945 ) and a central figure in world events during the mid-20th सदी, leading the संयुक्त States दौरान a time of विश्वव्यापी economic depression और कुल युद्ध.
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the तभी American president निर्वाचित to अधिक than दो शर्तें, he निर्मित a नई सौदे Coalition कि realigned American राजनीती बाद 1932, as his domestic policies पारिभाषित अमरीकी liberalism for the middle तीसरा of the 20th century.
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy दिनों Are Here again `` as उसके अभियान थीम, FDR defeated लाज़िम रिपब्लिकन Herbert हूवर in November 1932, at the depth of the Great अवसाद.
Energized by उसके निजी victory over polio, FDR 's unfailing optimism and सक्रियता contributed to a नवीकरण of the national spirit.
He worked closely with अंग्रेजों प्रधान Minister Winston Churchill और सोवियत सामान्य सचिव Joseph Stalin in अग्रणी the allies विरूद्ध Germany and Japan in World War II, और restoring prosperity to the nation 's अर्थव्यवस्था.
In उसके पहला hundred days in office, which began March 4, 1933, रूज़वेल्ट पथप्रदर्शन major legislation और issued a profusion of executive orders कि instituted the New सौदे —a किस्में of programs designed to produce राहत ( सरकारी jobs for the बेरोजगार ), recovery ( economic विकास ), and reform ( through regulation of Wall गली, banks और transportation ).
the economy improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937, but then relapsed into a deep मंदी.
the bipartisan Conservative गठबन्धन कि formed in 1937 prevented his packing the Supreme Court or गुजर कोई considerable legislation ; it abolished अनेक of the relief programs जब unemployment diminished during संसार युद्ध II.
Most of the regulations on कारोबार यहूद ended परिचय 1975–85, except लिये the regulation of Wall Street by the Securities और Exchange Commission, which still exists.
Along with several छोटी programs, major surviving programs शामिल the Federal Deposit बीमे निगम, जिससे was created in 1933, and Social Security, जिससे कॉंग्रेस passed in 1935.
As World युद्ध II loomed बाद 1938, with the जापानी आक्रमण of चीन and the आक्रामकता of Nazi Germany, FDR gave strong राजनयिक और वित्तीय support to China और Great Britain, while remaining officially neutral.
His goal was to make अमेरिका the `` Arsenal of Democracy `` जिससे होता supply munitions to the Allies.
in कूच 1941, Roosevelt, with Congressional approval, provided lend-lease aid to the countries लड़ against नाजी जर्मनी साथ ब्रिटेन.
With बहुत दमदार नेशनल support, he made war on जापानी और Germany after the जापानी आक्रमण on पर्ल हार्बर on दिसम्बर 7, 1941, कॉलिंग it a `` date which होगा सजीव in infamy ``.
He पर्यवेक्षित the mobilization of the U.S. economy to support the Allied युद्ध effort.
As an active military नेता, रूज़वेल्ट implemented an overall war strategy on दो fronts कि ended in the defeat of the अक्ष Powers and the विकास of the संसार 's first अणु bomb.
In 1942 रूज़वेल्ट ordered the internment of 100,000 जापानी American नागरिकों.
बेरोजगारी dropped to 2 %, राहत कार्यक्रम largely ended, and the industrial economy grew rapidly to नई हाइट्स as millions of लोगों स्थानांतरित to नई jobs in war centers, और 16 million men और 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for सैन्य service.
रूज़वेल्ट वर्चस्व the अमरीकी राजनैतिक scene नहीं तभी दौरान the twelve सालो of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी, but भी for दशकों afterward.
he orchestrated the realignment of मतदाता that निर्मित the पांचवां पार्टी प्रणाली.
fdr 's नई Deal गठबन्धन united labor संघ, बिग नगर मशीने, श्वेत ethnics, African अमेरिकी और ग्रामीण white southerners.
He भी बहकावे the later creation of the United राष्ट्र और bretton वुड्स.
रूज़वेल्ट is consistently rated by scholars as one of the शीर्ष तीन U.S. राष्ट्रपतियों, along with Abraham Lincoln और George Washington.
A liberal डेमोक्रेट, Roosevelt defined उसके वैचारिक स्थिति as `` a छोटी बाएँ of center. ''
Mara Salvatrucha ( commonly abbreviated as MS, Mara, and ms-13 ) is a transnational दण्ड गिरोह कि originated in लॉस एंजिल्स and रै spread to अन्य भाग of the United States, कनाडा, मैक्सिको, and Central America.
The बहुमत of the गिरोह is ethnically composed of Central Americans और active in शहरी and suburban areas.
in the U.S., the ms-13 has an विशेषकर heavy presence in Los Angeles काउंटी और the San Francisco Bay Area in Northern कैलिफ़ोर्निया ; the Washington, d.C. metropolitan क्षेत्रों of फेयरफैक्स County, Virginia, Montgomery काउंटी, Maryland, and Prince जार्ज 's County, Maryland ; long Island, New York ; the बोस्टन, Massachusetts area ; Charlotte, North कैरोलिना ; and ह्यूस्टन, Texas.
There is also a presence of ms-13 in Toronto, ओंटारियो, Canada.
Members of MS distinguish themselves by tattoos covering the body and also often the फेस, as खूब as the use of their अपना चिह्न भाषा.
They are notorious for their उपयोग of violence and a subcultural moral code कि predominantly consists of merciless revenge and cruel retributions.
इस cruelty of the विशिष्ट सदस्यों of the `` Maras '' or `` mareros '' earned उन्हें a path to be recruited by the sinaloa कार्टेल battling against Los zetas in an ongoing ड्रग war दक्षिण of the संयुक्त States किनारा.
उनके wide-ranging activities have drawn the attention of the एफबीआई और Immigration और Customs Enforcement, who have initiated wide-scale raids against known और suspected गिरोह सदस्यों – netting hundreds of रखवाले across the देश.
Bones is an American crime comedy-drama television series that premiered on the फॉक्स संजाल in the संयुक्त States on September 13, 2005.
The दिखाएँ is आधारित on forensic anthropology and forensic पुरातत्व, साथ प्रत्येक एपीसोड focusing on an एफबीआई मामला संचिका concerning the रहस्य पीछे human remains brought by एफबीआई खास Agent seeley बूथ ( दाउद Boreanaz ) to the forensic anthropologist dr. Temperance `` Bones '' ब्रेनन ( Emily Deschanel ).
the बाकी of the main cast includes Michaela Conlin, T. J. thyne, eric Millegan, tamara टेलर, Jonathan एडम्स, और जॉन फ्रांसिस Daley.
निर्मित by हार्ट Hanson, the series is very loosely आधारित on the life and कृतियाँ of novelist और forensic anthropologist कैथी reichs, जो also produces the दिखाएँ.
इसके title character, Temperance ब्रेनन, is नामित after the protagonist of Reichs ' अपराधों novel श्रेणी.
Conversely, Dr. ब्रेनन writes successful mystery novels based around a fictional ( in the Bones ब्रह्मांड ) forensic anthropologist नामित Kathy Reichs.
Bones is a joint उत्पादन by Josephson entertainment, दूर फ़ील्ड प्रोडक्शन्स and 20th सदी फॉक्स Television.
the श्रेणी has समाप्त airing its आठवीं ऋतु and has been renewed for a ninth ऋतु.
Super कटोरी xxv was an American football खेल between the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल Conference ( afc ) चैंपियन भैंस बिल्स and the National Football Conference ( nfc ) champion New यॉर्क Giants to decide the नेशनल Football लीग ( NFL ) champion लिये the 1990 ऋतु.
the दिग्गज पराजित the Bills by the स्कोर of 20–19, winning their second कभी सुपर कटोरी.
it is the तभी सुपर कटोरी decided by one point.
The game was आयोजित at Tampa स्टेडियम in tampa, Florida, on January 27, 1991, during the ऊँचाई of the गल्फ युद्ध.
It थी thus played अंतर्गत much patriotic fervor.
The कार्यवाही included a rousing rendition of `` The Star-Spangled Banner `` by व्हिटनी Houston during the pregame ceremonies.
the बिल्स और their विस्फोटक no-huddle offense were बनाना their पहला Super Bowl रूप after finishing the regular ऋतु साथ a 13-3 रिकार्ड, and अग्रणी the लीग in total अंक scored साथ 428.
In advancing to their second Super कटोरी, the दिग्गज भी posted a 13-3 नियमित season record, लकिन with a ball-control ठोकर और a defense कि allowed a लीग low 211 points.
the खेल is best remembered for Bills placekicker स्कॉट नॉर्वुड 's last-second field लक्ष्य attempt which went चौड़ी सही of the uprights, अग्रणी to a दिग्गज विजय, और starting a four-game खोने streak in the Super Bowl for the Bills.
The दिग्गज set a Super कटोरी रिकार्ड holding कब्ज़ा of the ball लिये 40 मिनट्स and 33 seconds.
नई यॉर्क also overcame a 12-3 second-quarter deficit, और made a 75-yard touchdown drive कि consumed a Super कटोरी record 9:29 बंद the क्लॉक.
दिग्गज running back Ottis एंडरसन, जो carried the ball 21 times लिये 102 yards and एक touchdown, थी named सुपर Bowl mvp.
he was the first awardee to प्राप्त the newly named `` Pete Rozelle Trophy '' ( named for the former कमिश्नर ).
Anderson also recorded एक रिसेप्शन लिये seven गज.
Malcolm x ( ; may 19, 1925February 21, 1965 ), born मैल्कम Little और also ज्ञात as El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz ( ), was an african-american मुस्लिम minister और human rights activist.
To उसके admirers, he was a साहसी एडवोकेट लिये the rights of blacks, a man जो indicted white अमेरिका in the harshest terms for its अपराधों against ब्लैक अमेरिकी.
Detractors accused him of उपदेश जातिवाद, ब्लैक supremacy, and violence.
He has महरूम पुकारा one of the greatest and most influential African अमेरिकी in history.
मैल्कम X 's father died—killed by white supremacists, it was rumored—when he थी यंग, and at least one of his uncles थी lynched.
When he थी 13, his mother was placed in a mental hospital, and he was placed in a series of foster homes.
in 1946, at age 20, he went to prison for तोड़कर और entering.
In prison, मैल्कम X became a सदस्य of the स्वदेश of islam ; after his पैरोल in 1952, he quickly rose to become one of इसके leaders.
For a dozen years, Malcolm x थी the पब्लिक फेस of the विवादास्पद group, लकिन मोहभंग साथ Nation of Islam head Elijah Muhammad led उसे to leave the Nation in March 1964.
After a period of सफर in अफ़्रीकी and the Middle ईस्ट, he लौटे to the United States, where he founded Muslim मस्जिदे, Inc. और the Organization of afro-american एकता.
In February 1965, less than a year बाद leaving the स्वदेश of Islam, he was assassinated by तीन members of the समूह.
Malcolm X 's expressed beliefs बदला substantially over time.
as a spokesman for the स्वदेश of Islam he taught black supremacy and advocated separation of black और श्वेत Americans —in कंट्रास्ट to the सिविल rights movement 's emphasis on integration.
After breaking with the Nation of Islam in 1964—saying of his association with it, `` i did many things as a [ ब्लैक ] मुस्लिम that I 'm sorry for अभी.
I was a zombie then... pointed in a certain direction and बताई to कूच '' —and becoming a सुन्नी Muslim, he disavowed racism and expressed willingness to work साथ सिविल rights leaders, he continued to emphasize Pan-Africanism, black self-determination, और self-defense.
The third ऋतु of 90210, an American टेलीविज़न series, premiered on सोमवार September 13, 2010.
the CW officially renewed the show लिये a तीसरा ऋतु on February 16, 2010.
With the खुलासा of the networks fall 2010 अनुसूची, they announced their decision to move 90210 to सोमवार nights at 8:00 pm, as a lead-in to Gossip Girl.
it premiered on सितंबर 13, 2010 and was met साथ generally positive reviews from critics.
The season picks up at the end of गर्मियाँ और focuses on the विद्यार्थी वरिष्ठ साल of high स्कूल.
It फ़ॉलो adrianna 's वृद्धि to fame, a नई relationship between Silver और Navid and a confused Teddy who decides to खुलासा to उसके परिवार और friends he is gay.
it also सौदे with the aftermath of Naomi क्लार्क 's उत्पीड़न.
Regular cast members for the season included Shenae ग्रिम्स, Tristan Wilds, AnnaLynne McCord, Ryan eggold, Jessica stroup, माइकल steger, Jessica Lowndes, मैट Lanter, गिलियन zinser, Trevor Donovan और Lori loughlin.
Rebecca Sinclair continued her भूमिका as executive producer for the ऋतु.
the season premiered to 1.96 लाख दर्शक and a 0.9 दरजा in the adults 18–49 जनसांख्यिकी.
Christmas-themed episode `` Holiday Madness '', hit ऋतु highs in सब key demos with 2.1 in The cw 's target demo of महिलाओं 18–34, a 1.4 in वयस्कों 18–34 और a 1.1 in वयस्कों 18–49.
it was also the most watched episode in over a year साथ 2.2 million दर्शक tuning in.
The season finale aired on May 16, 2011.
The season averaged 1.75 million सजीव viewers and a 0.9 वयस्कों 18–49 दरजा.
it was released on dvd in the संयुक्त States on August 30, 2011.
एलिज़ाबेथ II ( एलिज़ाबेथ Alexandra मरियम ; born 21 अप्रैल 1926 ) is the constitutional monarch of 16 sovereign राज्य, known as the Commonwealth realms, and उनके territories and dependencies, और सिर of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations.
She is परम् राज्यपाल of the Church of England and, in some of her realms, carries the title of Defender of the आस्था as भाग of उसके पूरा title.
On उसके accession on 6 फ़रवरी 1952, एलिज़ाबेथ became Head of the Commonwealth और महारानी regnant of सात independent Commonwealth countries : the संयुक्त Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, दक्षिण Africa, पाकिस्तानी and Ceylon.
इससे 1956 to 1992, the number of her realms varied as territories gained स्वतंत्रता and some realms became republics.
At उपस्थित, in addition to the पहला चार aforementioned countries, Elizabeth is Queen of Jamaica, बारबाडोस, the बहामा, Grenada, पापुआ New Guinea, the सुलेमान आइलैंड्स, Tuvalu, संत Lucia, संत Vincent and the Grenadines, Belize, अण्टीगुआ और Barbuda and संत Kitts और Nevis.
Her reign of सालो is currently the दूसरी longest for a British monarch ; only Queen विक्टोरिया has reigned longer at over 63 सालो.
एलिज़ाबेथ थी born in लंदन और शिक्षित privately at home.
Her पिता acceded to the throne as George vi in 1936 on the abdication of उसके bhai एडवर्ड viii, इससे जिससे समय वो थी the heir presumptive.
वो began to undertake पब्लिक कर्तव्य दौरान the Second World युद्ध, in जिससे वो परोसा in the auxiliary Territorial सेवा.
in 1947, वो शादीशुदा Prince Philip, Duke of एडिनबर्ग, with whom she has चार children : चार्ल्स, ऐनी, एंड्रयू, और Edward.
Her coronation सेवा took place in 1953 और थी the पहला to be televised.
The Queen 's many ऐतिहासिक visits and बैठक शामिल a state visit to the Republic of Ireland और reciprocal विज़िट to और from the पोप.
The Queen रै seen major संवैधानिक परिवर्तन in her realms, ऐसे as devolution in the United Kingdom और the patriation of the Canadian constitution.
Times of personal significance have शामिल the births and marriages of her children, the births of उसके grandchildren, the प्रतिष्ठापन of the Prince of Wales, and the जश्न of माइलस्टोन ऐसे as her Silver, सुनहरी, and Diamond Jubilees in 1977, 2002, और 2012, क्रमशः.
प्रमुख events in the Queen 's reign have शामिल the Troubles in Northern Ireland, the Falklands War, wars with इराकी and the War in Afghanistan.
There have been टाइम्स of personal sorrow for उसके जिससे शामिल the death of her father at 56, the assassination of Prince फिलिप 's uncle, Lord Mountbatten, the breakdown of उसके children 's marriages in 1992 ( a year deemed her annus horribilis ), the मौत in 1997 of उसके former daughter-in-law, डायना, राजकुमारी of Wales, and the deaths of उसके mother and सिस्टर in 2002.
The Queen रै occasionally faced severe press criticism of the royal परिवार and रिपब्लिकन sentiments, but support लिये the monarchy and her निजी popularity remain ऊँची.
the 2010 संयुक्त States Senate election in Florida took प्लेस on नवम्बर 2, 2010 साथ साथ other elections to the United राज्य Senate in अन्य states as well as सब elections to the United States House of Representatives और various state और लोकल elections.
Republican मार्को Rubio, former Speaker of the फ्लोरिडा House of Representatives, defeated स्वतंत्र Charlie crist and Democrat Kendrick Meek in a three-way race.
एक पद Senator Mel मार्टिनेज थी निर्वाचित in a बहुत close race against Democrat Betty अरंडी in 2004 साथ 49 % of the vote.
मार्टिनेज announced on December 2, 2008 that he होता नहीं seek re-election to the Senate, and would इस्तीफा prior to the समाप्त of his term.
in August 2009, Governor चार्ली Crist घोषित कि he would appoint उसके former Chief of Staff, जार्ज lemieux, a रिपब्लिकन, to the सीनेट seat being vacated by मार्टिनेज.
Governor crist publicly announced he was running लिये the सीट in mid-2009.
At the time he received many रिपब्लिकन endorsements, ऐसे as the National Republican senatorial कमेटी, मार्टिनेज, and the 2008 रिपब्लिकन अध्यक्षीय nominee John मैक्केन.
His support of the American रिकवरी and Reinvestment Act of 2009 ठेस उसके popularity among conservatives, and प्रत्याशी Marco rubio surged.
in April 2010 crist announced he होता drop out of the Republican primary and run as an independent.
The National रिपब्लिकन Senatorial Committee withdrew इसके endorsement of Crist और मांगे a refund of its अभियान funds कि it provided लिये the crist campaign.
कांग्रेसी Kendrick Meek was the पहला Democrat to declare उसके intention to run.
Alexander snitker was the first सदस्य of the Libertarian पार्टी on the ballot for senator in Florida 's history.
उपग्रह view of दोहा
Doha (, ' or ', literally : `` the big पेड़ '' ) is the पूंजी city of the state of Qatar.
स्तिथ on the coast of the Persian गल्फ,
it had a population of 998,651 in 2008, and is भी एक of the municipalities of Qatar.
दोहा is Qatar 's largest city, साथ over 60 % of the स्वदेश 's population residing in Doha or its surrounding suburbs, और is भी the economic centre of the देश.
दोहा also serves as the सीट of government of क़तर, which is ruled by Sheikh Hamad bin खलीफा al थानी.
दोहा is home to the Education City, an area devoted to research और education.
दोहा was the साईट of the पहला ministerial-level meeting of the Doha Development गोलाकार of World व्यापार Organization negotiations.
the city of Doha held the 2006 एशियाई खेल, जिससे थी the largest एशियाई Games ever held.
Doha also hosted the 2011 Pan Arab Games and most of the games at the 2011 AFC एशियाई कप.
दोहा hosted the UNFCCC Climate Negotiations ( COP 18 ) December 2012 and will मेजबान a large क्रमांक of the venues लिये the 2022 FIFA संसार कप.
The संसार Petroleum Council held the 20th World पेट्रोलियम सम्मेलन in Doha in दिसम्बर 2011.
paranasal sinuses are a group of four paired air-filled spaces that घेर the nasal cavity ( maxillary sinuses ), above the आँखें ( frontal साइनस ), between the आँखें ( ethmoid sinuses ), and behind the ethmoids ( sphenoid साइनस ).
The साइनस are नामित for the facial bones in जिससे they are स्तिथ.
झुकना manufacturing, झुकना एंटरप्राइज़, or lean production, often simply, `` झुकना, '' is a production practice that considers the व्यय of संसाधन for any goal अन्य than the creation of value for the end customer to be wasteful, and thus a निशाना for elimination.
Working इससे the perspective of the ग्राहक जो consumes a product or सेवा, `` मान '' is defined as any कार्रवाई or प्रक्रम कि a customer would be willing to pay for.
Essentially, lean is centered on preserving मान साथ less work.
Lean manufacturing is a प्रबन्धन philosophy निकला mostly इससे the Toyota Production प्रणाली ( tps ) ( hence the पद Toyotism is भी prevalent ) and पहचाना as `` झुकना '' तभी in the 1990s.
tps is renowned लिये its फ़ोकस on कटौती of the असली Toyota सात wastes to improve overall ग्राहक मान, but there हैं varying perspectives on कैसा this is best achieved.
The steady growth of टोयोटा, from a small कम्पनी to the संसार 's largest automaker, has focused attention on how it रै हासिल this कामयाबी.
icarly logo
icarly is an American sitcom कि airs on Nickelodeon, जिससे premiered on सितंबर 8, 2007.
Nickelodeon प्रचारित अनेक episodes so far such as `` ido '', `` iHire an idiot '', `` iPity the Nevel '', `` idate sam & फ्रेडी '', etc. as specials, despite their होने नियमित episodes.
Every episode title begins with a lower मामला i जिससे represents the internet, as in `` icarly ''.
The दिखाएँ थी nominated for an Emmy award लिये Outstanding children 's Program in 2009.
The श्रेणी starring Miranda cosgrove as कार्ली Shay, a 13-year-old जो becomes an अंतरजाल star.
The series ended on नवम्बर 23, 2012 साथ the one-hour खास एपीसोड `` igoodbye ''.
A total of 7 सीज़न and 109 episodes were broadcast.
The largest audience of the series थी 11.2 million viewers, with the खास एपीसोड `` iSaved Your Life '' premiered in January 2010.
When Carly ( मिरांडा Cosgrove ) and her sassy best friend sam ( Jennette mccurdy ) act funny at a school talent show audition, tech-savvy Freddie ( नाथन Kress ) tapes it और पोस्ट it ऑनलाइन without telling उन्हें.
After seeing the girls ' strong रसायन and banter, the online दर्शक clamors लिये more and the iCarly webcast is born.
जबकि grappling साथ typical issues of adolescence, कार्ली, sam, and फ्रेडी find out that वे have भी become ऑनलाइन celebrities as their दिखाएँ – which features हुनर प्रतियोगिताओं, व्यंजनों, problem-solving, and यादृच्छिक नाचना – garners अंतरराष्ट्रीय accolades.
Carly lives in सिएटल, Washington with उसके 26-year-old bhai and guardian स्पेंसर ( Jerry Trainor ) and produces the show in a makeshift third-floor स्टुडियो loft in their अपार्टमेंट.
Their mother रै never been seen or उल्लेखित, लकिन their पिता, Steven Shay ( दाउद chisum ), is a u.S. एयर Force officer temporarily stationed on a submarine, और is प्रायः उल्लेखित but is only देखी in person during the series finale एपीसोड, `` iGoodbye ''.
Westlife यहूद an Irish boy band जिससे formed in 1998 और disbanded in 2012.
Originally signed by साइमन Cowell and प्रबंधित by Louis वाल्श, the group 's final line-up consisted of nicky Byrne, Kian Egan, चिह्नित Feehily and Shane filan.
Brian McFadden was a सदस्य from 1998 until उसके departure in 2004.
westlife sold over 50 million records विश्वव्यापी, a कुल that included studio एल्बम, singles, video releases, और संकलन albums.
the group संचित 14 number-one singles in the संयुक्त Kingdom ( the third-highest in uk history ), tying with Cliff Richard and ranking just behind the Beatles and Elvis Presley.
They हासिल a total of 26 शीर्ष टेन singles over their 14-year career.
By 2010, westlife was listed in the Guinness संसार Records, as the uk 's top-selling album group of the 21st सदी.
वे also जीती The Record of the Year ( the तभी म्यूज़िक award आधारित on public मत in the UK ) a record-breaking four times and in 2012, the आधिकारिक चार्ट Company सूचीबद्ध Westlife 34th amongst the biggest-selling singles artists in British music इतिहास.
despite उनके European and Asian कामयाबी, Westlife never managed to break into the U.S. मार्केट, achieving only one hit single in 2000 : `` Swear It Again ``.
in अक्तूबर 2011, Westlife announced their intention to विभाजित in 2012, following their Greatest Hits Tour and the रिलीज of their महानतम Hits album.
The boyband 's फाइनल concerts were आयोजित on 22 और 23 June 2012 at Croke पार्क Stadium in डबलिन.
the first farewell concert, offering 85,000 tickets, sold out in a record-breaking 5 minutes and the latter screened live in cinemas worldwide.
विटामिन a is a समूह of nutritionally unsaturated hydrocarbons, जिससे include retinol, retinal, retinoic acid और several provitamin a carotenoids among जिससे beta-carotene is the सबसे important.
Vitamin A रै multiple functions, it is important for विकास and विकास, लिये the maintenance of the प्रतिरक्षा system and शुभ vision.
विटामिन A is needed by the retina of the eye in the form of retinal, जिससे combines साथ protein opsin to रूप rhodopsin the light-absorbing molecule, that is necessary for both low-light ( scotopic vision ) और रंग vision.
विटामिन a भी कृत्यों in a very different role as an irreversibly oxidized form of रेटिनॉल known as retinoic acid, which is an important hormone-like growth फ़ैक्टर लिये epithelial and other कोशिकाएं.
in foods of animal उत्पत्ति, the प्रमुख form of विटामिन a is an ester, primarily retinyl palmitate, जिससे is converted to रेटिनॉल ( chemically an दारू ) in the small आंत.
The रेटिनॉल form कृत्यों as a storage form of the विटामिन, and can be परिवर्तित to and इससे its visually क्रियाशील aldehyde form, retinal.
The associated acid ( retinoic एसिड ), a metabolite that can be irreversibly synthesized इससे vitamin a, has तभी आंशिक vitamin A activity, and does नहीं फलन in the retina लिये the visual cycle.
Retinoic acid is प्रयुक्त लिये विकास और सेल्यूलर differentiation.
All forms of विटामिन A have a beta-ionone रिंग to which an isoprenoid chain is attached, पुकारा a retinyl समूह.
Both structural features हैं essential for vitamin activity.
the orange रंजक of गाजर – beta-carotene – can be represented as two कनेक्ट retinyl समूह, जिससे हैं used in the देह to contribute to vitamin a levels.
Alpha-carotene and gamma-carotene भी have a सिंगल retinyl group, जिससे दे them कुछ vitamin activity.
None of the अन्य carotenes have vitamin activity.
The carotenoid beta- cryptoxanthin possesses an ionone group and has vitamin कार्यकलाप in humans.
विटामिन a can be मिला in two principal forms in भोजन :
Retinol, the form of विटामिन A absorbed जब eating एनिमल food sources, is a yellow, fat-soluble पदार्थ.
Since the pure alcohol form is unstable, the vitamin is found in ऊतकों in a form of retinyl ester.
It is also commercially produced and administered as esters such as retinyl एसीटेट or palmitate.
The carotenes alpha-carotene, beta-carotene, gamma-carotene ; और the xanthophyll beta-cryptoxanthin ( सब of which contain beta-ionone rings ), but no other carotenoids, function as provitamin A in herbivores and omnivore पशु, जिससे possess the enzyme ( 15-15'-dioxygenase ) which cleaves beta-carotene in the intestinal mucosa and converts it रेटिनॉल.
In general, carnivores हैं poor converters of ionine-containing carotenoids, and pure carnivores ऐसे as cats and ferrets कमी 15-15'-dioxygenase and can नहीं convert any carotenoids to retinal ( resulting in none of the carotenoids being फ़ॉर्म of विटामिन a for these species ).
Selena Marie Gomez ( born July 22, 1992 ) is an American सिंगर और actress.
She बना her debut as a child actress in Barney & मित्रों.
In 2007, गोमेज़ came to prominence as a starring cast member in the television श्रेणी Wizards of waverly प्लेस.
She signed to Hollywood Records the following year, and became the founder और lead singer of the pop बैंड सेलिना Gomez & the झाँकी.
Their स्टुडियो albums Kiss & Tell ( 2009 ), a साल बगैर Rain ( 2010 ), and जब the सूर्य goes Down ( 2011 ) were certified सुनहरा by the Recording Industry संघ of America ( RIAA ) and have spawned Platinum-certified singles `` Naturally ``, `` Who Says ``, और `` Love तुम like a प्रेम सोंग ``.
After the release of television films and उनके accompanying soundtracks, Gomez made her नाट्य film डेब्यू in ramona और Beezus in 2010 and स्ट्रक्चर in Monte कार्लो in 2011.
upon the conclusion of Wizards of waverly Place and the hiatus of Selena गोमेज़ & the झाँकी in 2012, she केन्द्रित on उसके film करियर, सेवारत as a voice अभिनेत्री in Hotel Transylvania and अभिनीत in Spring Breakers the following साल.
उसके debut सोलो album is tentatively अनुसूचित to be released in गर्मियाँ 2013, and is preceded by its lead single `` Come & Get it ``.
बाहर of her कार्य in the entertainment उद्योग, गोमेज़ is involved in philanthropic activities through दान कार्य and विभिन्न social and environmental causes.
tracie Monique Spencer ( born July 12, 1976 ) is an American R & b and pop singer-songwriter, actress, और model.
Sacramento is the capital नगर of the U.S. state of California और the सीट of government of sacramento County.
It is located at the confluence of the sacramento River और the अमरीकी River in the उत्तरी portion of California 's expansive Central घाटी.
साथ an estimated 2011 population of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest नगर in कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the 35th largest city in the संयुक्त राज्य.
sacramento is the कोर cultural और economic center of the sacramento metropolitan area which includes सात counties with an estimated 2009 जनसांख्यिकी of 2,527,123.
इसके महानगर area is the चौथी largest in कैलिफ़ोर्निया after the Greater लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल, San Francisco Bay क्षेत्रफल, and the San डिएगो महानगर area, as खूब as the 25th largest in the संयुक्त States.
Sacramento was cited by Time magazine as America 's सबसे ethnically और racially integrated नगर in 2002.
Sacramento became a city through the efforts of the Swiss immigrant जॉन Sutter, Sr., उसके बेटे जॉन sutter, jr., and James W. Marshall.
sacramento grew जल्दी thanks to the protection of Sutter 's फोर्ट, which was established by sutter in 1839.
दौरान the California Gold फटाफट, Sacramento थी a प्रमुख वितरण point, a commercial and agricultural बीच, and a terminus for वैगन trains, stagecoaches, riverboats, the टेलीग्राफ, the Pony Express, and the First Transcontinental Railroad.
California State University, Sacramento, more commonly ज्ञात as Sacramento State or Sac राज्य, is the largest लोकल university.
It is one of the twenty-three campuses of the California राज्य University system.
drexel University sacramento is located in Downtown, Sacramento.
University of the Pacific 's McGeorge School of Law is located in the Oak Park पड़ोस.
In जोड, the University of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, Davis is स्तिथ in nearby डेविस, west of the पूंजी.
the uc Davis Medical बीच, a world-renowned research हॉस्पिटल, is स्तिथ in the नगर of Sacramento.
मेमोरियल दिन is a संयुक्त States federal अवकाश which occurs every year on the final सोमवार of May.
Memorial दिन is a day of remembering the men and महिलाओं जो died जबकि सेवारत in the United राज्य Armed शक्तियां.
Formerly ज्ञात as सजावट दिन, it originated बाद the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध to commemorate the Union and Confederate soldiers who died in the सिविल युद्ध.
by the 20th century मेमोरियल दिन had been extended to honor all Americans जो have died in all युद्धों.
It typically marks the start of the summer vacation ऋतु, while Labor Day marks इसके end.
अनेक people विज़िट cemeteries और memorials, particularly to honor those who have died in military सेवा.
Many volunteers प्लेस an American ध्वज on each grave in नेशनल कब्रिस्तान.
by the जल्दी 20th century, मेमोरियल Day थी an अवसर for more general expressions of memory, as people visited the graves of their deceased रिश्तेदारों in church कब्रिस्तान, whether they had परोसा in the सैन्य or not.
It also became a long वीकेंड increasingly devoted to shopping, परिवार gatherings, fireworks, trips to the beach, and national media कार्यक्रम.
Annual सजावट Days for particular cemeteries are held on a संडे in लेट spring or early summer in कुछ ग्रामीण areas of the American दक्षिण, notably in the kyu.
in cases involving a family graveyard where remote पूर्वजो as खूब as those who were मृतक more recently are buried, इस may लो on the character of an विस्तारित family reunion to which some लोगों सफर सैंकड़ों of miles.
People gather on the designated दिन and put flowers on graves and नवीनीकृत सम्पर्क साथ kinfolk और others.
वहीँ often is a धार्मिक service and a `` डिनर on the मैदान, '' the traditional term लिये a potluck भोजन in which people प्रयुक्त to spread the बर्तन out on sheets or tablecloths on the grass.
It is believed कि this practice began पहले the अमरीकी सिविल War and thus may प्रतिबिंबित the real उत्पत्ति of the `` memorial दिन '' विचार.
Memorial Day is नहीं to be उलझन साथ दिग्गजों Day ; मेमोरियल Day is a day of remembering the men and महिलाओं who died while serving, जबकि दिग्गजों Day मनाता the सेवा of सब u.S. military veterans, जीना or मुर्दे.
Mt. zion Church state history marker निकट Philadelphia, Mississippi.
Freedom Summer ( also known as the मिसिसिपी Summer प्रोजेक्ट ) was a campaign in the संयुक्त States शुभारम्भ in June 1964 to attempt to register as अनेक African अमरीकी मतदाता as possible in Mississippi, जिससे था historically excluded सबसे blacks from voting.
the project also नियत up dozens of Freedom Schools, स्वतंत्रता Houses, और community centers in छोटी towns throughout Mississippi to aid the local black population.
The project थी व्यवस्थित by the Council of Federated संगठन ( COFO ), a coalition of the Mississippi branches of the चार major सिविल rights संगठन ( SNCC, CORE, naacp and sclc ).
Most of the impetus, नेतृत्व, और financing for the गर्मियाँ प्रोजेक्ट आए इससे the sncc.
Robert Parris मूसा, SNCC फ़ील्ड सचिव और co-director of COFO, directed the summer प्रोजेक्ट.
Blues is the नाम दिए to both a musical form and a music विधा that originated in communities of primarily the `` Deep दक्षिण `` of the संयुक्त States around the end of the 19th century from spirituals, work songs, field hollers, shouts और chants, and rhymed simple कथा ballads.
The blues रूप, ubiquitous in jazz, rhythm and blues, और rock and फेंकें is characterized by विशिष्ट chord progressions, of which the twelve-bar ब्लूज़ chord progression is the सबसे common.
the blue notes that, for expressive purposes हैं sung or played flattened or धीरे bent ( minor 3rd to major 3rd ) in संबंध to the pitch of the major स्केल, हैं also an important part of the sound.
the blues genre is आधारित on the blues form but possesses other विशेषताएँ such as specific lyrics, बास lines, and instruments.
ब्लूज़ can be subdivided into several subgenres ranging इससे country to urban blues कि were अधिक or less popular during different periods of the 20th century.
Best ज्ञात हैं the Delta, Piedmont, जम्प, and Chicago ब्लूज़ styles.
World War ii marked the transition इससे ध्वनिक to इलेक्ट्रिक ब्लूज़ और the प्रगतिशील opening of blues music to a wider audience, especially श्वेत listeners.
In the 1960s और 1970s, a hybrid रूप पुकारा blues-rock evolved.
the पद `` the blues '' refers to the `` ब्लू शैतानों '', अर्थ वेदना and sadness ; an जल्दी use of the term in इस भाव is मिला in George Colman 's one-act farce Blue शैतानों ( 1798 ).
हालांकि the use of the phrase in African-American music may be older, it has महरूम attested to since 1912, when हार्ट Wand 's `` Dallas ब्लूज़ `` became the first स्वत्वाधिकार blues संयोजन.
In गीत the phrase is प्रायः used to describe a depressed मनोदशा.
a quarter dollar, commonly shortened to quarter, is a coin worth 1⁄4 of a संयुक्त राज्य डालर or 25 cents.
the quarter has महरूम उत्पादित since 1796.
the choice of 25¢ as a denomination, as opposed to 20¢ जिससे is more common in other parts of the संसार, originated with the practice of dividing Spanish Milled डॉलर into eight wedge shaped segments ( cf. `` pieces of आठ `` ).
At one time `` two बिट्स ``, i.e. दो wedges, प्रत्येक wedge an eighth, यूँ a quarter of the Spanish रियल, was a आम nickname for a quarter.
दिन of the मुर्दे ( ) is a Mexican holiday celebrated throughout मैक्सिको and around the संसार in अन्य संस्कृतियों.
The अवकाश focuses on महफिलों of परिवार और friends to दुवा लिये and याद friends और परिवार members who have died.
It is विशेषकर celebrated in Mexico, where it is a नेशनल अवकाश, और all बैंको हैं बंद.
the जश्न takes place on November 1 और 2, in कनेक्शन with the Catholic holidays of All Saints ' Day और सब souls ' दिन.
Traditions कनेक्ट साथ the अवकाश include भवन निजी altars honoring the मृतक using शुगर skulls, marigolds, and the पसंदीदा foods and beverages of the departed and visiting क़ब्रों with these as उपहार.
वे also छोड़ possessions of the deceased.
Scholars trace the origins of the आधुनिक मैक्सिकन अवकाश to indigenous observances dating back hundreds of सालो and to an Aztec festival dedicated to the देवी Mictecacihuatl.
the holiday रै spread throughout the संसार : In ब्राज़ील, Dia de finados is a public अवकाश कि many brazilians celebrate by visiting cemeteries and चर्च.
in स्पेन, वहीँ are festivals और parades, और, at the end of the दिन, लोगों gather at कब्रिस्तान and pray for their मुर्दे loved ones.
Similar observances occur elsewhere in Europe, and similarly themed celebrations appear in many एशियाई and अफ़्रीकी cultures.
ANITA Mk VIII.
The ANITA चिह्नित VII and अनीता Mark viii calculators were शुभारम्भ simultaneously in लेट 1961 as the world 's पहला all- electronic डेस्कटॉप calculators.
Designed and built by the Bell Punch Co.
in Britain, और marketed through its Sumlock comptometer division, वे प्रयुक्त vacuum tubes और cold-cathode switching tubes in उनके लॉजिक circuits और nixie tubes लिये their numerical displays.
They were the पहला of a श्रेणी of डेस्कटॉप और hand-held इलेक्ट्रॉनिक calculators कि the कम्पनी was to develop और sell under the अनीता name into the mid-1970s.
George Washington ( –, 1799 ) थी the first अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States ( 1789–1797 ), the commander-in-chief of the महाद्वीपीय फौज during the American Revolutionary War, and एक of the Founding fathers of the United States.
He presided over the convention that drafted the Constitution, जिससे replaced the आलेख of कनफेडरेशन and स्थापित the स्थिति of President.
Washington was elected President as the सर्वसम्मत चुनाव of the 69 निर्वाचक in 1788, and he served दो terms in दफ्तर.
He oversaw the creation of a दमदार, well-financed national सरकारी that कायम neutrality in the wars raging in Europe, suppressed विद्रोह, and जीती acceptance among Americans of all प्रकार.
His leadership स्टाइल स्थापित अनेक forms और संस्कार of government that have महरूम used चूंकि, such as using a cabinet प्रणाली and delivering an inaugural पता.
Further, the peaceful transition इससे his प्रेसिडेंसी to the presidency of जॉन Adams स्थापित a परंपरा that continues into the 21st century.
Washington थी hailed as `` पिता of his country `` even during his lifetime.
Washington was born into the provincial gentry of औपनिवेशिक वर्जिनिया ; his धनवान planter family owned तम्बाकू plantations और slaves.
बाद both his पिता and पुरानी bhai died when he थी young, वॉशिंगटन became personally और professionally संलग्न to the शक्तिशाली विलियम फेयरफैक्स, जो promoted his करियर as a surveyor और soldier.
Washington जल्दी became a senior अधिकारी in the colonial forces during the पहला stages of the French and Indian War.
चुनी by the दूसरी महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस in 1775 to be commander-in-chief of the महाद्वीपीय फौज in the American क्रान्ति, Washington प्रबंधित to force the British आउट of Boston in 1776, but थी defeated and almost captured later कि year जब he खोया New York नगर.
After crossing the डेलावेयर नदी in the मुर्दे of winter, he पराजित the British in two लड़ाइयों, retook New Jersey and restored आवेग to the Patriot cause.
Because of his रणनीति, Revolutionary forces captured two major British सेना at साराटोगा in 1777 और yorktown in 1781.
इतिहासकारों laud वॉशिंगटन for उसके selection and supervision of उसके generals, प्रोत्साहन of मनोबल and ability to थाम together the army, समन्वय with the state राज्यपालों and state militia units, relations साथ Congress और attention to supplies, लोजिस्टिक्स, और training.
in battle, however, Washington was repeatedly outmaneuvered by अंग्रेजों generals with larger armies.
बाद victory had been finalized in 1783, वॉशिंगटन resigned as Commander-in-chief rather than seize शक्ति, proving उसके opposition to तानाशाही और उसके प्रतिबद्धता to अमरीकी republicanism.
Dissatisfied with the weaknesses of the Articles of Confederation, in 1787 वॉशिंगटन presided over the Constitutional Convention that drafted the United States संविधान.
निर्वाचित unanimously as the first अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य in 1789, he attempted to bring प्रतिद्वंद्वी factions together to unify the nation.
He supported सिकंदर Hamilton 's कार्यक्रम to pay off सब राज्य and नेशनल कर्ज़, to implement an effective tax प्रणाली और to बनाएँ a नेशनल बैंको ( despite opposition from Thomas जेफरसन ).
Washington proclaimed the United राज्य न्यूट्रल in the wars raging in Europe after 1793.
He avoided युद्ध with ग्रेट Britain and guaranteed a decade of peace and profitable trade by securing the jay Treaty in 1795, despite तीव्र opposition from the Jeffersonians.
Although never officially joining the Federalist पार्टी, he supported its कार्यक्रम.
वॉशिंगटन 's विदाई Address was an influential primer on republican virtue and a warning against partisanship, sectionalism, और भागीदारी in foreign wars.
he retired from the प्रेसिडेंसी in 1797 and लौटे to उसके home, माउंट Vernon, और his घरेलू life where he managed a किस्में of enterprises.
He freed all his स्लेव by his final होगा.
Washington था a vision of a great and शक्तिशाली nation that होता be निर्मित on रिपब्लिकन lines using federal शक्ति.
He sought to उपयोग the नेशनल सरकारी to बचाना liberty, improve अवसंरचना, open the western lands, प्रचार commerce, found a स्थाई पूंजी, reduce क्षेत्रीय तनाव और promote a spirit of American nationalism.
at his death, Washington was eulogized as `` पहला in war, first in peace, और पहला in the hearts of उसके देशवासियों '' by हेनरी Lee.
The federalists बना उसे the symbol of their पार्टी but लिये अनेक years, the Jeffersonians continued to अविश्वास his influence and delayed building the Washington Monument.
as the leader of the first कामयाब revolution विरूद्ध a औपनिवेशिक साम्राज्य in संसार history, वॉशिंगटन became an अंतरराष्ट्रीय icon for liberation और nationalism, especially in France and Latin America.
Fiscal साल 2012 U.S. Federal बिता – नकदी or Budget Basis.
Fiscal Year 2012 u.S. Federal Receipts.
The Budget of the संयुक्त States सरकारी often begins as the अध्यक्ष 's प्रस्ताव to the U.S. कॉंग्रेस जिससे अनुशंसा funding स्तर for the next fiscal year, beginning October 1.
However, कॉंग्रेस is the देह required by law to pass a budget annually and to submit the बजट passed by दोनो houses to the अध्यक्ष for हस्ताक्षर.
Congressional निर्णय हैं governed by rules और विधान regarding the संघीय budget process.
Budget committees set spending limits for the House and सीनेट समितियों और लिये appropriations subcommittees, which then स्वीकृति individual appropriations बिल्स to allocate funding to विभिन्न federal कार्यक्रम.
If कॉंग्रेस fails to pass an सालाना बजट ( as रै महरूम the case चूंकि 2009 ), a श्रेणी of Appropriations bills जरूर be passed as `` रोकें gap '' उपायों.
बाद कॉंग्रेस approves an appropriations विधेयक, it is sent to the President, who may चिह्न it into विधि, or may वीटो it ( as he होता a बजट जब passed by the कॉंग्रेस ).
a vetoed विधेयक is sent back to Congress, which can pass it into law साथ a two-thirds majority in each कक्ष.
Congress may also combine सब or some appropriations bills into an omnibus reconciliation bill.
in addition, the president may request and the Congress may pass supplemental appropriations bills or emergency supplemental appropriations bills.
Several government agencies provide budget आंकड़ा और विश्लेषण.
ये include the Government Accountability Office ( GAO ), congressional बजट Office, the दफ्तर of प्रबन्धन and बजट ( OMB ) and the u.S. राजकोष Department.
ये एजेंसियों have reported that the federal government is facing a श्रेणी of महत्वपूर्ण financing challenges.
in the short-run, tax revenues have declined significantly due to a severe recession and tax नीति choices, जबकि expenditures have विस्तारित for wars, बेरोजगारी बीमे and अन्य safety जाल spending.
In the long-run, expenditures related to healthcare कार्यक्रम ऐसे as medicare और Medicaid हैं projected to grow तेज़ than the अर्थव्यवस्था overall as the जनसांख्यिकी matures.
नई गिनी ( also, Tok पिसिन : niugini, Dutch : nieuw Guinea, और ; historically : Papua ) is the world 's second largest द्वीप, after ग्रीनलैंड, covering a जमीन क्षेत्रफल of 786,000 km2.
Located in the southwest Pacific Ocean, it झूठ geographically to the east of the मलय Archipelago, with जिससे it is sometimes included as भाग of a greater indo-australian द्वीपसमूह.
Geologically it is a part of the same tectonic थाली as Australia.
When संसार समुद्र levels यहूद low, the two shared shorelines ( जिससे now lie 100 to 140 metres below समुद्र level ), combining with lands अभी inundated into the tectonic continent of sahul, भी ज्ञात as Greater Australia.
the two landmasses became separated when the area now known as the Torres जलसन्धि flooded after the end of the last glacial period.
anthropologically, New Guinea is considered भाग of Melanesia.
Politically, the western हाफ of the द्वीप comprises two इंडोनेशियाई प्रांतों : Papua और वेस्ट Papua.
The पूर्वी half forms the मेनलैंड of the country of Papua New गिनी.
The द्वीप has a population of about 7.5 million, with a very कम जनसांख्यिकी density of तभी 8 inh/km2.
New गिनी is differentiated इससे इसके drier, flatter, और कम fertile दक्षिणी counterpart, Australia, by its much उच्चतर वर्षा and its क्रियाशील volcanic geology, with its उच्चतम point, Puncak Jaya, reaching an उन्नयन of 4,884 m ( 16,023 ft ).
Yet the दो जमीन masses share a similar animal fauna, साथ marsupials, सहित wallabies and possums, and the egg-laying monotreme, the spiny anteater, or एकिडना.
Other than bats and some two dozen स्वदेशी rodent genera, there हैं no pre-human indigenous placental mammals.
सूअर, several additional प्रजाति of rats, and the पूर्वज of the नई Guinea Singing Dog were introduced with human colonization.
the इंसान presence on the island dates back at least 40,000 years to the oldest human migrations out of अफ़्रीकी.
Research indicates कि the हाइलैंड्स were an early and independent center of कृषि, साथ evidence of सिंचाई going back at least 10,000 सालो.
क्युकी of the समय depth of इसके inhabitation और इसके highly fractured लैंडस्केप, an unusually ऊँची number of languages are बोला on the द्वीप, with some 1,000 languages ( a figure higher than कि of सबसे महाद्वीपों ) having महरूम catalogued out of an अनुमानित world-wide pre-Columbian total of 6,000 इंसान dialects.
सबसे are classified as Papuan languages, a generally accepted geographical term which a minority of authors hold to be a जेनेटिक एक.
a number of Austronesian languages are बोला on the coast and on offshore islands.
In the 16th सदी स्पेनी explorers खोजा the द्वीप and पुकारा it नुएवा गिनी.
In हाल इतिहास पश्चिमी New Guinea थी included in the Dutch ईस्ट Indies उपनिवेश.
The germans annexed the उत्तरी coast of the पूर्वी half of the island as जर्मनी New Guinea in their pre–World War I effort to establish themselves as a औपनिवेशिक शक्ति, whilst the south पूर्वी portion was reluctantly claimed by Britain.
Following the सन्धि of Versailles, the German portion was awarded to ऑस्ट्रेलिया ( जिससे was already governing the British claim, named the territory of पापुआ ) as a League of Nations mandate.
The पूर्वी हाफ of the द्वीप थी granted independence from Australia as पापुआ नई Guinea in 1975.
the पश्चिमी हाफ gained स्वतंत्रता इससे the डच in 1961, लकिन became भाग of इंडोनेशिया soon afterwards in विवादास्पद हालातों.
`` the वैन Buren Boys '' is the 148th episode of the sitcom seinfeld, and नाम of a fictional New York street गिरोह.
उनके sign is क्रासिंग the हैंड्स, with one hand साथ सब the उंगलियाँ 'up ' और spread आउट.
the अन्य हाथ has सब but the अंगूठा and सूचक finger up, लिये a कुल of आठ ( 8 ).
The गिरोह is नामित for the 8th अध्यक्ष of the United States, Martin वैन buren ( who थी the first अध्यक्ष इससे New यॉर्क ).
This was the 14th एपीसोड for the 8th season.
it aired on February 6, 1997.
Bevo चिह्न
Bevo was a non-alcoholic malt पेय, or निकट beer, brewed in the संयुक्त States by the Anheuser-Busch company शुरूआत in the जल्दी 20th सदी.
bevo enjoyed its महानतम success during the समय of निषेध, when beer, wine और आसुत liquors, यहूद made illegal for thirteen years.
the anheuser-busch company started brewing Bevo when alcoholic beverages were निषिद्ध in 1916 by the संयुक्त States हथियारबंद शक्तियां.
Production rose greatly with national prohibition in 1919, and Bevo was by far the सबसे popular of the अनेक `` cereal beverages '' or `` निकट beers '' of the time.
At the शिखर of इसके लोकप्रियता in the early 1920s, अधिक than पाँच लाख cases of bevo were sold annually.
renard with a मग of Bevo, depicted in टेरा cotta on the आंतरिक दीवारें of the bevo भवन, St. Louis
Labels on the बोतलों billed it as `` Bevo the पेय ''.
The name `` Bevo '' थी coined इससे the शब्द `` beverage '' और the Slavic language word लिये बियर `` pivo '', और was pronounced `` Bee-vo ''.
Some Bevo विज्ञापन featured the अक्षर `` Renard the Fox `` ( based on the protagonist of a मध्यकालीन फ्रेंच folk-tale ), and promotional mugs साथ इस character were manufactured.
In 1930 anheuser-busch built a श्रेणी of boat-bodied cars in इसके St. लुई shops पुकारा the `` bevo Boats '' which यहूद प्रयुक्त for प्रमोशन.
सात हैं believed to have been built on pierce-arrow 8-cylinder chassis while एक surviving उदाहरण थी based upon 1930 Cadillac 353 V8.
बिलबोर्ड advertising bevo in trenton, New जर्सी, 1917
a contemporary advertisement read `` कूलिंग और invigorating, Bevo the Beverage.
Order by the मामला इससे your grocer, druggist, or dealer. ''
The पेपर label on the वापस of the bottle read `` the all-year-round Soft Drink.
appetizing - Healthful - Nutritious - Refreshing.
मिल्क or water may contain bacteria.
bevo never does. ''
Bevo became भाग of the लोकप्रिय culture of the time, and is mentioned in विभिन्न popular songs और Vaudeville skits of the era.
This led to द्वितीयक slang uses of the शब्द ; for उदाहरण, in American सैन्य slang a young और inexperienced officer was पुकारा a `` Bevo ''.
The विश्वविद्यालयों of Texas नामित its शुभंकर `` Bevo '', a नाम जिससे रै stuck to this दिन.
इरविंग Berlin शामिल a paean to the drink, `` You Ca n't Stay Up on bevo '', in उसके 1917 army revue, Yip यिप Yaphank.
in the late 1920s smuggled bootleg बियर और liquor as well as `` homebrew ``, काटें into Bevo 's marketshare.
साथ sales flattening to 100,000 cases by 1929, Anheuser-Busch stopped production.
The bevo मिल, st. लुई, in 2008
The Bevo building, with the Renard अक्षर prominently प्रदर्शित at the corners, still operates as a bottling facility at उनके main ब्रेवरी in st. लुई, Missouri.
The landmark Bevo Mill, constructed by August Anheuser Busch, Sr. in 1917.
it was closed in 2009, but it reopened in October 2009 under new owners.
Bevo is also mentioned in the छोटी स्टोरी `` The Killers `` by अर्नेस्ट Hemingway ; as well as in babbitt by Sinclair Lewis.
Mylanta is an over the counter medication प्रयुक्त लिये the उपचार of एसिड reflux, heartburn, and gastroesophageal reflux disease ( भी known as GERD ).
foremilk and Hindmilk samples of human breast मिल्क
A glass of pasteurized गाय milk
Milk is a white liquid produced by the mammary glands of mammals.
It is the primary सोर्स of nutrition लिये यंग mammals before they हैं समर्थ to डाइजेस्ट other प्रकार of food.
अर्लy- lactation मिल्क contains colostrum, जिससे carries the माँ 's antibodies to the baby and can reduce the रिस्क of अनेक diseases in the baby.
It भी contains many अन्य nutrients.
as an agricultural product, milk is extracted इससे mammals और प्रयुक्त as food for इंसानो.
विश्वव्यापी, dairy खेतो produced परिचय 730 million टन of milk in 2011.
India is the world 's largest निर्माता और consumer of मिल्क, yet neither exports nor imports milk.
New जीलैंड, the यूरोपीय संघ 's 27 member states, Australia, and the United States are the world 's largest exporters of milk and मिल्क उत्पाद.
चीन और Russia are the world 's largest importers of milk and मिल्क products.
Throughout the world, वहीँ हैं more than 6 अरब consumers of मिल्क and मिल्क products.
Over 750 लाख people सजीव within dairy farming households.
Milk is a key contributor to improving nutrition और खाना सुरक्षा particularly in developing देशों.
Improvements in पशुधन और dairy प्रौद्योगिकी offer significant promise in reducing poverty और malnutrition in the संसार.
Motorcycle speedway, प्रायः referred to as speedway, is a motorcycle sport involving चार और sometimes up to six राइडर्स competing over four anti-clockwise गोद of an ओवल circuit.
स्पीडवे मोटरसाइकिल use only एक gear और have no brakes and रेसिंग takes प्लेस on a flat oval track प्रायः consisting of मैल or loosely packed shale.
प्रतिस्पर्धी use this surface to स्लाइड their मशीने बगलों, powersliding or broadsiding into the bends.
on the straight भाग of the track the मोटरसाइकिल reach speeds of up.
The exact origins of the sport हैं unknown but वहीँ is evidence of a प्रकार of स्पीडवे racing होने practised in the USA पहले the पहला World युद्ध और in ऑस्ट्रेलिया in the late 1910s and early 1920s.
वहीँ हैं now दोनो घरेलू and international competitions in a number of countries including the Speedway World Cup whilst the highest overall scoring individual in the Speedway Grand प्रिक्स कार्यक्रम is pronounced the world चैंपियन.
Speedway is लोकप्रिय in central and northern यूरोपीय and to a lesser extent in Australia और North अमेरिका.
A variant of track racing, speedway is administered internationally by the Fédération Internationale de motocyclisme ( FIM ).
Domestic स्पीडवे events हैं regulated by fim affiliated national मोटर sport federations.
Vitamin d is a group of fat-soluble secosteroids जिम्मेदार लिये intestinal अवशोषण of कैल्सियम और phosphate.
In humans, the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण सम्बन्धित यौगिकों of विटामिन D are विटामिन D2 and विटामिन D3.
cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3 ) and ergocalciferol ( विटामिन D2 ) हैं अद्वितीय as they constitute what we know as विटामिन d and can be ingested from the आहार and/or पूरक.
The body can भी synthesize vitamin D ( इससे कोलेस्ट्रॉल ) जब sun एक्सपोज़र is पर्याप्त ( hence its उपनाम, the `` सनशाइन vitamin '' ).
हालांकि vitamin D is commonly called a vitamin, it is not दरअसल an अनिवार्य dietary विटामिन in the सख्त sense, as it can be synthesized in adequate amounts by most mammals exposed to sunlight.
( बिल्लियों और कुत्तो can not synthesize vitamin D efficiently and must receive it in उनके आहार. )
an organic chemical compound ( or related set of compounds ) is तभी scientifically पुकारा a विटामिन when it can नहीं be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an सजीव, और must be प्राप्त from their diet.
however, as with other compounds commonly पुकारा विटामिन, vitamin D was discovered in an प्रयत्न to ढूँढें the dietary पदार्थ that was lacking in a disease, namely, rickets, the बाल्यकाल रूप of osteomalacia.
additionally, like other यौगिकों called विटामिन, in the developed संसार vitamin D is added to staple foods, such as मिल्क, to avoid disease due to deficiency.
Measures of serum levels प्रतिबिंबित endogenous संश्लेषण इससे exposure to sunlight as well as सेवन इससे the diet, and it is believed that संश्लेषण may योगदान generally to the maintenance of पर्याप्त serum एकाग्रता.
the प्रमाण indicates that the synthesis of विटामिन D इससे सूर्य एक्सपोज़र works in a feedback लूप कि prevents toxicity but, because of uncertainty परिचय the कर्कट risk from धूप, no recommendations हैं issued by the संस्थान of आयुर्विज्ञान, यूएसए, लिये the amount of sun एक्सपोज़र required to मिलें vitamin D आवश्यकताएँ.
तदनुसार, the dietary सन्दर्भ intakes लिये vitamin D assume that no synthesis occurs and कि all of a व्यक्ति 's विटामिन D is from उनके diet, हालांकि that होगा rarely occur in practice.
in the liver vitamin D is converted to calcidiol, जिससे is also known as calcifediol ( INN ), 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, or 25-hydroxyvitamin D—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D ; and which is the विशिष्ट विटामिन D metabolite कि is measured in serum to determine a व्यक्ति 's vitamin d औकात.
Part of the calcidiol is परिवर्तित by the kidneys to calcitriol, the biologically active रूप of विटामिन D. Calcitriol circulates as a hormone in the रक्त, regulating the concentration of calcium and फास्फेट in the bloodstream और promoting the स्वस्थ growth and remodeling of अस्थि.
calcidiol is also परिवर्तित to calcitriol outside of the गुर्दे for other उद्देश्य, ऐसे as the proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis of कोशिकाएं ; calcitriol also affects neuromuscular function and inflammation.
Beyond इसके use to prevent osteomalacia or rickets, the evidence लिये other स्वास्थ्य effects of विटामिन D supplementation in the general population is असंगत.
the बेहतरीन evidence of लाभ is लिये अस्थि स्वास्थ्य और a decrease in mortality in elderly महिलाओं.
the Duramax is a General मोटर्स डीज़ल engine family for light- और medium duty trucks, designed by isuzu.
The 6.6-liter duramax is उत्पादित by DMAX, a संयुक्त venture between gm and isuzu in Moraine, ओहियो.
इस engine थी initially संस्थापित in 2001 model साल Chevy और जीएमसी ट्रक and has been an option since then in pickups, vans, and medium-duty ट्रक.
In 2006, उत्पादन at Moraine was reportedly सीमित to approximately 200,000 engines प्रति साल.
On May 9, 2007, dmax announced the production of the 1,000,000th duramax V-8 diesel at इसके moraine facility.
duramax LML
Balto.
is also a परंपरागत written संक्षिप्त लिये Baltimore, मेरीलैंड.
प्रतिमा of Balto in सेंट्रल पार्क ( New York नगर )
balto ( 1919 – कूच 14, 1933 ) was a siberian हस्की sled dog who led his टोली on the final leg of the 1925 serum चलाएं to Nome, in जिससे diphtheria antitoxin थी transported इससे Anchorage, Alaska, to nenana, अलास्का, by train and then to Nome by dog sled to कॉम्बैट an outbreak of the disease.
The चलाएं is commemorated by the सालाना iditarod ट्रेल sled श्वान रेस.
Balto was नामित बाद the Sami explorer सैमुएल Balto.
Balto died at the आयु of 14.
Professor Stephen हॉकिंग, ज्ञात लिये being a theoretical physicist, has appeared in many works of लोकप्रिय culture.
the Nissan Maxima is a mid-size / entry-level luxury car manufactured by Nissan, marketed as the `` four-door sports car ''.
The origins of the Maxima began in जुलाई 1976 as the Datsun 810, an upscale six-cylinder संस्करण of the bluebird, और थी spun into इसके own लकीर in 1981, having been made लगातार since then.
the `` Maxima '' नाम थी applied धीरे, beginning in 1981.
Most pre-2004 maximas यहूद built in Oppama, Japan, until the current North American Maximas started होने assembled in Smyrna, Tennessee.
The `` उच्चिष्ट '' has also been लागू to cefiros and चलेगा in various markets.
propolis as छत्ता sealing
Propolis is a resinous mixture कि honey मधुमक्खियों collect इससे पेड़ buds, sap बहती, or other वनस्पति sources.
it is used as a sealant for unwanted open spaces in the छत्ता.
Propolis is प्रयुक्त for small गैप ( approximately or less ), जबकि larger स्पेसेस are प्रायः filled साथ beeswax.
Its color varies depending on इसके वनस्पति source, the most common being dark brown.
Propolis is sticky at and ऊपर room temperature,.
at lower temperatures, it becomes मुश्किल and बहुत भंगुर.
Steven टायलर ( born Steven Victor tallarico ; कूच 26, 1948 ) is an American singer, songwriter, और multi-instrumentalist, बेहतरीन known as the frontman और lead singer of the Boston -based चट्टान band Aerosmith, in which he also plays the harmonica, and occasional पियानो and percussion.
He is ज्ञात as the `` Demon of Screamin ' '' due to his high चिल्लाती और his wide vocal range.
He is भी ज्ञात for उसके on-stage acrobatics.
During his high-energy performances, he usually पोशाक in bright, colorful outfits with उसके ट्रेडमार्क स्कार्फ hanging from उसके microphone stand.
In the 1970s, टायलर rose to prominence as the frontman of एरोस्मिथ, which released such milestone hard rock albums as खिलौने in the Attic और Rocks.
in the late 1970s and early 1980s, टायलर था a heavy drug and alcohol व्यसन, और the band 's popularity waned.
he completed drug rehabilitation in 1986 and subsequently maintained sobriety for over 20 सालो, but had a relapse with prescription painkillers in the late 2000s, लिये जिससे he successfully received उपचार in 2009.
After Aerosmith शुभारम्भ a remarkable वापसी in the लेट 1980s and जल्दी 1990s with the albums स्थाई अवकाश, पंप, and Get a पकड़, टायलर became a household नाम और has remained a relevant rock icon.
As a result, he has since embarked on several solo endeavors including guest दिखावे on other artists ' म्यूज़िक, film and tv roles ( सहित as a न्यायधीश on American आइडल ), authoring a bestselling किताब, and solo work ( सहित a शीर्ष 40 hit सिंगल in 2011 ).
However, he has जारी to रिकार्ड music and perform with Aerosmith, after more than 43 सालो in the band.
the बैंड 's latest album, Music इससे Another Dimension !
, was released on नवम्बर 6, 2012.
Tyler is included among Rolling Stones 100 Greatest गायकों.
He थी also क्रमित 3rd on hit parader 's Top 100 मेटल Vocalists of सब Time.
in 2001 he थी inducted into the चट्टान and Roll हॉल of Fame साथ Aerosmith, and he थी the presenter जब ac/dc थी inducted into the हॉल of Fame in 2003.
in 2013, Tyler and his songwriting संगी जो Perry होगा be प्राप्तकर्ता of the ASCAP Founders पुरस्कार and will भी be inducted into the songwriters Hall of कीर्ति.
The जिगर produces urea in the urea cycle as a बर्बाद product of the digestion of protein.
Normal इंसान adult रक्त चाहिए contain between 7 to 21 mg of यूरिया nitrogen प्रति 100 ml ( 7–21 mg/ dL ) of blood.
व्यक्तिगत laboratories may have अलग reference सीमाएँ, and इस is क्युकी the कार्यविधि may vary.
वेन Fontes ( born February 2, 1940 ) is a पूर्व American फ़ुटबॉल coach and college and professional फ़ुटबॉल खिलाड़ी who थी the head कोच of the एनएफएल 's Detroit शेर इससे 1988 to 1996.
उसके 67 विन्स and 71 नुकसान हैं प्रत्येक the most for a head coach in टोली इतिहास.
The यहूदियों ( आईएसओ 259-3 Israeli pronunciation ), also known as the Jewish लोगों, are a nation and an ethnoreligious group, originating in the israelites or hebrews of the Ancient निकट East.
the Jewish नस्ल, nationality, और religion are strongly interrelated, as Judaism is the traditional faith of the यहूदी स्वदेश.
converts to judaism, जिनकी status as Jews within the Jewish ethnos is equal to those born into it, have महरूम absorbed into the Jewish people throughout the सहस्राब्दियों.
in यहूदी tradition, Jewish ancestry is traced to the Biblical patriarchs Abraham, Isaac and Jacob in the second मिलेनियम BCE.
The modern राज्य of Israel थी established as a Jewish nation-state, और defines itself as such in its मौलिक कानून.
इसके विधि of Return अनुदान the right of citizenship to any jew जो निवेदन it.
Israel is the only country where यहूदियों are a बहुमत of the जनसांख्यिकी.
Jews भी enjoyed political स्वायत्तता twice before in ancient history.
The first of ये periods lasted from 1350 to 586 BCE, और encompassed the अवधि of the न्यायाधीशों, the संयुक्त साम्राज्य, and the Divided Monarchy of the kingdoms of Israel and यहूदा, ending with the विनाश of the First टेम्पल.
The दूसरी was the काल of the Hasmonean किंगडम spanning इससे 140 to 37 BCE.
Since the विनाश of the First टेम्पल, most यहूदियों have जिया in diaspora.
A minority in every country in which वे सजीव ( except Israel ), वे have frequently अनुभवी persecution throughout इतिहास, resulting in a जनसांख्यिकी that रै fluctuated both in numbers and distribution over the सदियां.
the world यहूदी जनसांख्यिकी पहुँचे a peak of 15 million prior to the दूसरी World युद्ध, but छह million यहूदियों were killed in the holocaust.
Since तब the population has risen again and, थी estimated at 13.4 million by the उत्तर American Jewish Data Bank, or कम than 0.2 % of the total world जनसांख्यिकी ( roughly one in every 514 people ).
according to इस रपट, about 42.5 % of सब यहूदियों reside in Israel ( 5.7 million ), और 39.3 % in the United States ( 5.3 million ), with सबसे of the remainder living in Europe ( 1.5 लाख ) and कनाडा ( 0.4 million ).
These numbers include सब those जो consider themselves यहूदियों, whether or not they are संबद्ध साथ a यहूदी organization.
The total world Jewish population, however, is difficult to माप.
In addition to issues with census methodology, वहीँ are halakhic disputes regarding जो is a jew and secular, राजनैतिक, और ancestral पहचान factors that may affect the फिगर considerably.
Corpus Christi बारात.
आयल on कैनवास by Carl एमिल Doepler.
Corpus Domini redirects here.
For अन्य उपयोग देखिए Corpus domini ( बहुविकल्पी )
The Feast of Corpus Christi ( लैटिन लिये Body of Christ ), also known as कॉर्पस Domini, is a लैटिन Rite liturgical solemnity celebrating the tradition और belief in the देह और blood of Jesus मसीह and his रियल Presence in the Eucharist.
it emphasizes the आनन्द of the institution of the Eucharist, जिससे was observed on पावन गुरुवार in the somber atmosphere of the nearness of शुभ Friday.
in the present Roman Missal, the feast is designated the solemnity of The Most Holy Body and रक्त of Christ.
it is also मनाये in some anglican, Lutheran, और Old कैथोलिक चर्च that थाम समान beliefs regarding the रियल उपस्थिति.
The feast is liturgically celebrated on the गुरुवार बाद ट्रिनिटी Sunday or, `` where the solemnity of the Most Holy Body and रक्त of मसीह is not a Holy दिन of दायित्व, it is assigned to the संडे after the Most पावन ट्रिनिटी as इसके उचित day ''.
At the समाप्त of Holy द्रव्यमान, there is often a बारात of the Blessed Sacrament, generally प्रदर्शित in a monstrance.
The procession is followed by Benediction of the धन्य Sacrament.
A notable Eucharistic procession is कि presided over by the Pope each year in Rome, where it begins at the Archbasilica of St. John lateran and makes its way to the basilica of Saint Mary Major, where it concludes with Benediction.
C-reactive protein ( CRP ) is a protein मिला in the रक्त, the levels of which वृद्धि in response to inflammation ( i.e. C-reactive protein is an acute-phase protein ).
Its physiological role is to bind to phosphocholine expressed on the surface of मुर्दे or dying कोशिकाएं ( and कुछ types of bacteria ) in अनुक्रम to activate the complement system via the C1Q जटिल.
CRP is synthesized by the liver in response to factors released by macrophages and मोटे cells ( adipocytes ).
It is a सदस्य of the pentraxin परिवार of प्रोटीन.
It is not related to C-peptide or प्रोटीन c.
c-reactive protein was the first पैटर्न मान्यता receptor ( PRR ) to be identified.
The start of the systematic यूरोपीय colonization of the Americas is typically dated to 1492, when a Spanish expedition headed by Christopher कोलंबस sailed लिये India to खोलें व्यापार लकिन inadvertently discovered the Americas.
European conquest, large-scale खोजी and colonization soon followed.
Seeing that यूरोपीय was preoccupied with अनेक आतंरिक wars and थी slowly recovering from the अनेक मौतों कि the bubonic plague caused, the rapid विस्तार at जिससे it grew in माल और power was unforeseeable in the जल्दी 1400s.
The first रिझाने occurred साथ the caribbean coasts on the islands of Hispaniola, प्यूर्टो Rico and Cuba, और after 1500 extended into the interiors of both उत्तर और South अमेरिका.
In 1497, sailing from the north on behalf of England, John Cabot उतरा on the North American coast, and a year बाद, कोलंबस 's third voyage reached the दक्षिण अमरीकी coast.
फ़्रांस संस्थापित colonies in much of eastern North America, on a number of caribbean islands, और in दक्षिण अमेरिका.
Portugal colonized Brazil.
आखिरकार, the entire Western गोलार्ध came under the control of European सरकारें, अग्रणी to profound changes to its लैंडस्केप, population, और संयंत्र and animal जीवन.
In the 19th सदी alone over 50 लाख लोगों बाएँ यूरोपीय for the Americas.
The post-1492 era is ज्ञात as the काल of the Columbian एक्सचेंज.
Keith रिचर्ड्स ( born 18 December 1943 ) is an English संगीतकार, singer-songwriter and संस्थापक member of the अंग्रेज़ी rock band the Rolling पत्थरों.
रोलिंग स्टोन magazine कहा Richards had निर्मित `` rock 's greatest single body of riffs '', ranking उसे 4th on इसके list of 100 बेहतरीन guitarists.
चौदह songs Richards wrote with the रोलिंग Stones ' lead vocalist Mick जैगर are सूचीबद्ध among रोलिंग स्टोन पत्रिका 's `` 500 Greatest गीतों of सब समय ``.
रिचर्ड्स ' सुर्खी लिये illicit drug उपयोग stems in part from several drug busts दौरान the late 1960s और 1970s and उसके candour regarding उसके addiction to and eventual abstinence from heroin.
Testosterone is a steroid हार्मोन इससे the androgen group and is found in स्तनधारियों, reptiles, पक्षियों, and अन्य vertebrates.
In स्तनधारियों, testosterone is primarily secreted in the अंडकोष of males and the अंडाशय of females, although small amounts हैं also secreted by the adrenal glands.
It is the principal पुरूष sex hormone और an anabolic steroid.
in men, टेस्टोस्टेरोन plays a key role in the development of पुरूष reproductive tissues such as the testis and प्रोस्टेट as well as promoting secondary यौन विशेषताएँ ऐसे as increased मांसपेशी, bone द्रव्यमान, और the growth of देह बाल.
In जोड, testosterone is essential for health और well-being as well as the prevention of ऑस्टियोपोरोसिस.
on average, in adult इंसान males, the प्लाज्मा विशेषज्ञता of टेस्टोस्टेरोन is परिचय 7–8 टाइम्स as great as the concentration in वयस्क human females ' plasma, but as the metabolic खपत of टेस्टोस्टेरोन in males is greater, the daily उत्पादन is about 20 टाइम्स वृहद in men.
Females also हैं more sensitive to the hormone.
Testosterone is observed in सबसे vertebrates.
Fish मेक a slightly different form पुकारा 11-ketotestosterone.
इसके बंटवारा in कीट is ecdysone.
These ubiquitous steroids सुझाएँ that sex हार्मोन have an ancient evolutionary इतिहास.
Cluster sampling is a sampling technique used जब `` प्राकृतिक '' but relatively समरूप groupings हैं evident in a सांख्यिकीय population.
It is often used in marketing research.
In this technique, the total population is विभाजित into ये groups ( or क्लस्टर ) and a simple यादृच्छिक नमूना of the समूह is चयनित.
तब the required सूचना is collected from a simple random sample of the elements within each selected समूह.
This may be done for every element in ये groups or a subsample of elements may be चयनित within each of ये groups.
A common प्रेरणा for cluster sampling is to reduce the कुल क्रमांक of interviews और costs दिए the desired accuracy.
Assuming a fixed नमूना आकार, the तकनीक gives अधिक सटीक परिणाम when सबसे of the variation in the population is भीतर the समूह, not between them.
jamestown is a कस्बा in guilford County, उत्तर Carolina, United States, and is a उपनगरीय of the nearby cities of Greensboro और High पाइंट.
the population was 3,382 at the 2010 census.
Natalie Portman ( born नताली hershlag ; ; जून 9, 1981 ) is an actress और model साथ dual अमरीकी and Israeli citizenship.
उसके first role थी as an अनाथ taken in by a हिटमैन in the 1994 कार्रवाई film, but mainstream success came when she थी डाल as padmé Amidala in the Star युद्धों prequel trilogy ( released in 1999, 2002 and 2005 ).
In 1999, she नामांकित at Harvard University to study psychology while स्टिल working as an actress.
She completed उसके bachelor 's degree in 2003.
In 2001, पोर्टमैन खोली in New यॉर्क नगर 's Public Theater उत्पादन of Anton Chekhov 's The सीगल.
In 2005, Portman received a नामांकन for the अकादमी Award for बेहतरीन Supporting अभिनेत्री and won the सुनहरी Globe पुरस्कार for बेहतरीन supporting Actress - Motion Picture for the drama करीब.
वो जीती a नक्षत्र पुरस्कार for Best Female Performance and a Saturn Award for बेहतरीन Actress लिये her अभिनीत role in v लिये वेंडेट्टा ( 2006 ).
She played अग्रणी roles in the historical dramas गोया 's Ghosts ( 2006 ) and the Other बोलिन Girl ( 2008 ).
In May 2008, she served as the youngest member of the 61st Annual कैन Film Festival jury.
Portman 's directorial debut, Eve, opened the 65th Venice International फिल्मी पर्व 's shorts प्रतियोगिता in 2008.
Portman निर्देशित a segment of the collective फिल्मी नई York, I Love You.
in 2011, Portman won the अकादमी Award, the Golden ग्लोब पुरस्कार, the BAFTA पुरस्कार, the स्क्रीन Actors Guild Award, and the Independent स्पिरिट पुरस्कार for उसके सीसे performance as नीना Sayers in Black swan.
तांबे is a chemical तत्व with the symbol Cu ( from ) और atomic number 29.
it is a ductile metal with very high thermal and विद्युत conductivity.
Pure copper is नरम and malleable ; a freshly exposed सतह रै a reddish-orange color.
It is प्रयुक्त as a कंडक्टर of heat और electricity, a भवन सामग्री, and a constituent of various मेटल alloys.
the metal and its alloys have been used for thousands of years.
In the रोमन era, तांबे थी principally mined on Cyprus, hence the उत्पत्ति of the नाम of the मेटल as сyprium ( metal of साइप्रस ), later shortened to сuprum.
इसके यौगिकों हैं commonly encountered as copper ( II ) salts, which प्रायः impart blue or green रंगों to खनिज such as azurite and फ़िरोज़ा और have महरूम widely प्रयुक्त historically as pigments.
Architectural structures built with तांबे corrode to दे ग्रीन verdigris ( or patina ).
Decorative आर्ट prominently features तांबे, both by itself and as part of pigments.
तांबे is essential to सब जीना organisms as a trace dietary खनिज because it is a key constituent of the respiratory enzyme जटिल cytochrome c oxidase.
In molluscs and crustacea copper is a constituent of the blood pigment hemocyanin, which is replaced by the iron-complexed हीमोग्लोबिन in fish and other vertebrates.
The प्रमुख क्षेत्रों जहाँ copper is मिला in vertebrates are liver, मांसपेशी and bone.
In sufficient विशेषज्ञता, copper compounds are poisonous to उच्चतर organisms और are used as bacteriostatic substances, fungicides, और wood preservatives.
The प्रमुख professional sports लीग, or बस प्रमुख leagues, in the United राज्य और Canada हैं the highest पेशेवर competitions of team sports in the two देशों.
Although individual खेल such as golf, tennis, और स्वचालित racing are also बहुत popular, the term is प्रायः limited to टोली sports.
The term `` प्रमुख league '' was first used in 1921 in reference to Major लीग बेसबॉल ( MLB ), the शीर्ष level of professional अमरीकी बेसबॉल.
आज, the major उत्तरी North America पेशेवर टोली sports leagues हैं प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल ( MLB ), the National Basketball Association ( NBA ), the National Football लीग ( NFL ), और the National हॉकी League ( एनएचएल ).
अन्य notable लीग शामिल प्रमुख लीग Soccer ( MLS ), the कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल League ( cfl ), the Arena फ़ुटबॉल लीग, Major League lacrosse, the National lacrosse League and the महिलाओं 's National बास्केट Association.
The NFL, एमएलबी, NBA, and NHL हैं commonly referred to as the Big Four.
Each of ये is the richest professional club competition in its खेल worldwide.
The बेहतरीन players can become cultural icons in both countries and elsewhere in the world, because the लीग आनंद a significant place in लोकप्रिय culture in the US और Canada.
The NFL has 32 टीमों, and the others have 30 each.
The vast majority of major league टीमों हैं concentrated in the most populous metropolitan areas of the संयुक्त States.
Baseball, football, हॉकी, and soccer have था professional leagues for over 100 years ; जल्दी लीग ऐसे as the National Association, ओहियो League, and National हॉकी Association formed the basis of the modern एमएलबी, एनएफएल और एनएचएल respectively.
Soccer was पहला professionalized in 1894, but leagues suffered greatly from lack of स्थिरता और seldom lasted अधिक than a decade.
सॉकर 's महानतम successes यहूद in the रूप of the American सॉकर लीग ( 1921-1933 ), the असली North अमरीकी सॉकर League ( 1968-1984 ), the National Professional Soccer League ( 1984-2001 ) and, currently, प्रमुख League Soccer ( 1996-present ).
Basketball is a relatively new विकास ; the एनबीए evolved from the National Basketball लीग and इसके splinter group the Basketball Association of अमेरिका, लेने on its वर्तमान form in 1949.
प्रत्येक major लीग averages 15,000 fans in attendance प्रति खेल or उच्चतर as of 2011.
मध्याह्न Altitude is an खगोलीय navigation method of calculating an observer 's latitude.
Earned value management ( EVM ), or Earned मान project/performance management ( EVPM ) is a प्रोजेक्ट management technique for measuring project प्रदर्शन and progress in an उद्देश्य manner.
Because EVM has the क्षमता to combine measurements of :
scope
अनुसूची
और cost,
in a सिंगल integrated प्रणाली, Earned Value Management is able to provide accurate forecasts of project performance problems, जिससे is an महत्वपूर्ण contribution लिये प्रोजेक्ट management.
Early EVM शोध showed that the क्षेत्रों of planning and control are significantly impacted by इसके use ; और similarly, using the methodology improves both scope परिभाषा as well as the analysis of overall project performance.
More हाल शोध studies have दिखाया that the सिद्धान्त of EVM हैं positive predictors of project success.
Popularity of evm has grown significantly in हाल years beyond government contracting, in which sector its महत्व continues to वृद्धि ( e.g., recent नई dfar नियम ), in part क्युकी EVM can भी surface in and help substantiate अनुबंध विवादों.
Colorful वसन्त garden पुष्प
Spring is एक of the four conventional temperate seasons, following winter और preceding गर्मियाँ.
वहीँ are विभिन्न technical परिभाषाएं of वसन्त, but local usage of the term varies according to local जलवायु, cultures and customs.
जब it is वसन्त in the उत्तरी hemisphere, it होगा be पतझड़ in the southern hemisphere.
at the spring equinox, दिनों हैं close to 12 घंटों long with day लंबाई increasing as the ऋतु progresses.
वसन्त और `` springtime '' refer to the ऋतु, and भी to विचार of rebirth, कायाकल्प, नवीकरण, resurrection, and regrowth, साथ festivals such as कार्निवल, Easter and Holi being मनाये at इस time.
Jamestown थी a settlement in the Colony of Virginia, the first permanent English settlement in the Americas.
Established by the Virginia Company of London as `` James Fort '' on May 14, 1607 ( O.S., May 24, 1607 n.s. ), it followed several earlier failed attempts, सहित the खोया Colony of roanoke.
jamestown परोसा as the capital of the colony for 83 सालो, from 1616 until 1699.
the settlement was located भीतर the territory of a political एंटिटी ज्ञात as tsenacommacah, the state of the powhatan Confederacy, साथ around 14,000 देशी निवासियों, and specifically थी in भाग of the subdivision known as the paspahegh tribe.
the natives initially welcomed the colonists साथ नाचना, feasting और tobacco ceremonies, and वे provided crucial provisions और support for the survival of the colonists, who यहूद not agriculturally inclined, although relations with the newcomers also soured fairly early on, अग्रणी to the कुल annihilation of the Paspahegh in warfare within 3 सालो.
Within a year of Jamestown 's founding, the Virginia कम्पनी brought Polish और Dutch colonists to सहायता improve the settlement.
In 1619, the first documented Africans were brought to jamestown, हालांकि the modern धारणा of slavery in the भविष्य संयुक्त States किया not begin in Virginia जबतक 1660.
When the colony थी subdivided into the असली आठ shires of वर्जिनिया in 1634, the town became स्तिथ in the eponymous जेम्स City Shire.
The लंदन कम्पनी 's second settlement, बरमूडा, claims to be the site of the oldest town in the English New World, as St. George 's, Bermuda थी officially established ( as New लंदन ) in 1612, whereas James फोर्ट, in Virginia, was not to be परिवर्तित into जेम्स towne जबतक 1619, और further did not survive into the उपस्थित दिन.
in 1699, the capital was relocated इससे Jamestown to what is today Williamsburg, after जिससे jamestown ceased to exist as a settlement, मौजूदा today only as an archaeological site.
आज, Jamestown is one of तीन स्थितियाँ comprising the Historic त्रिभुज of Colonial Virginia, along with Williamsburg and yorktown, with two primary heritage sites.
Historic Jamestowne, the पुरातत्व site on Jamestown Island, is a cooperative effort by Jamestown National ऐतिहासिक Site ( part of Colonial National ऐतिहासिक पार्क ), और Preservation वर्जिनिया.
The jamestown उपनिवेश, a living history interpretive site, is operated by the jamestown Yorktown Foundation in conjunction साथ the Commonwealth of Virginia.
James क्रिस्टोफर फ्रे ( born September 12, 1969 ) is an अमरीकी writer.
His किताबे A Million Little Pieces ( 2003 ) और My dost Leonard ( 2005 ), as well as Bright चमकदार morning ( 2008 ), यहूद bestsellers.
he was the subject of a scandal जब investigators discovered that prison time and the extent of निश्चित injuries were अतिरंजित in a Million छोटी Pieces, a purportedly autobiographical खाता of the लेखक 's struggle with addiction.
deere & Company, most commonly ज्ञात by its name जॉन Deere, is an अमरीकी corporation based in moline, इलिनोइस, और one of the largest निर्माताओं of agricultural मशीनरी in the संसार.
in 2012, it थी सूचीबद्ध as 97th in the Fortune 500 America 's ranking and 190th in the Fortune 500 Global रैंकिंग.
deere और कम्पनी agricultural products, sold अंतर्गत the John Deere नाम, include tractors, combine harvesters, cotton हार्वेस्टर, balers, planters / seeders, sprayers, और UTVs.
the company is also a निर्माता of निर्माण equipment and वानिकी उपकरण, as खूब as a प्रदायक of डीज़ल इंजन and drivetrains ( axles, transmissions, gearboxes ) प्रयुक्त in heavy उपकरण.
additionally, John Deere manufactures equipment used in लॉन, grounds, and turf care, ऐसे as walk-behind लॉन mowers, zero-turn lawn mowers, लॉन tractors, and snowthrowers.
To support the core व्यवसायों, John Deere also provides वित्तीय services and other सम्बन्धित activities.
the कम्पनी 's slogan is `` nothing रनों Like a Deere '' और रै a picture of a leaping deer as a लोगो, a word play pun on `` nothing runs like a deer ''.
Carl Westby coined the phrase `` Nothing Runs Like a deere '' for a विपणन campaign to sell snowmobiles.
The कम्पनी 's उत्पाद हैं भी identifiable by इसके distinctive शेड of green paint, प्रायः augmented by पीला trim.
The संयुक्त States ten-dollar विधेयक ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of संयुक्त राज्य currency.
The first u.S. सचिव of the Treasury ( 1789–95 ), सिकंदर Hamilton, is currently featured on the obverse of the bill, while the U.S. राजकोष Building is प्रदर्शित on the रिवर्स.
( Hamilton is one of दो non-presidents प्रदर्शित on currently जारी u.S. बिल्स.
the other is Benjamin Franklin, on the $ 100 विधेयक.
हैमिल्टन is एक of only four people featured on u.S. पेपर करेंसी ( 1861 to the present ) जो was नहीं born in the महाद्वीपीय संयुक्त States, as he थी from the West इंडीज.
The others are : Albert gallatin, Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal टेंडर ) ; जार्ज Meade, Spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91 Treasury नोट ) ; और Robert मॉरिस, England ( $ 1,000 1862/63 Legal Tender ; $ 10 1878/80 चांदी Certificate ).
In addition, Kamehameha I, appears on the 2008 हवाई state क्वार्टर. )
सब $ 10 bills जारी आज हैं Federal आरक्षित टीप.
The Bureau of Engraving और Printing says the average जीवन of a $ 10 विधेयक in circulation is 18 months before it is replaced due to wear.
लगभग 6 % of सब US banknotes मुद्रित in 2009 were $ 10 bills.
Ten dollar bills are delivered by Federal Reserve Banks in yellow straps.
The सोर्स of the फेस on the $ 10 विधेयक is John Trumbull ’s 1805 portrait of Hamilton कि belongs to the portrait collection of New York City हॉल.
the $ 10 bill is the only u.S. पेपर करेंसी in circulation in which the portrait faces to the left ( the $ 100,000 bill प्रदर्शित a portrait of वुडरो विल्सन facing to the left, लकिन was प्रयुक्त only for intra-government transactions ).
एंडी Samuel ग्रिफ़िथ ( June 1, 1926 – July 3, 2012 ) was an American actor, television निर्माता, Grammy पुरस्कार -winning southern-gospel singer, and writer.
he was a टोनी Award nominee for दो roles, and gained prominence in the starring भूमिका in निदेशक एलिया कज़न 's film A Face in the Crowd ( 1957 ) पहले he became better ज्ञात लिये उसके टेलीविज़न roles, playing the सीसे characters in the 1960–1968 situation comedy the एंडी Griffith Show और in the 1986–1995 legal drama matlock.
टेरेसा पेनेलोप `` terri '' इरविन, ( née raines ; born July 20, 1964 ) is an ऑस्ट्रेलियाई -आधारd, American -born naturalist, लेखक, the widow of Australian naturalist स्टीव Irwin and मालिक of Australia चिड़ियाघर at Beerwah, Queensland, Australia.
She co-starred with her husband on the Crocodile Hunter, उनके unconventional टेलीविज़न nature documentary श्रेणी along with its spin-off श्रेणी, Croc Files and The Crocodile शिकारी Diaries.
She has lived in Australia चूंकि 1992, when she शादीशुदा Steve Irwin.
andreas cellarius 's illustration of the copernican प्रणाली, from the Harmonia Macrocosmica ( 1660 ).
heliocentrism, or heliocentricism, is the astronomical model in which the धरती और planets revolve around a अपेक्षाकृत stationary Sun at the बीच of the Solar प्रणाली.
The word आता from the यूनानी ( helios `` sun '' और kentron `` बीच '' ).
Historically, heliocentrism was opposed to geocentrism, which placed the धरती at the center.
the notion कि the Earth घूमती around the Sun था been proposed as जल्दी as the 3rd सदी BC by aristarchus of Samos, लकिन Aristarchus 's heliocentrism attracted छोटी attention until कोपरनिकस revived and elaborated it.
Lucio Russo, however, argues that this is a भ्रामक impression resulting from the घाटा of वैज्ञानिक works of the Hellenistic Era.
using अप्रत्यक्ष evidence he argues कि a heliocentric दृश्य was expounded in Hipparchus 's work on gravity.
it थी not until the 16th सदी कि a fully predictive mathematical model of a heliocentric प्रणाली was presented, by the Renaissance mathematician, astronomer, और कैथोलिक cleric nicolaus Copernicus of कैंडल, leading to the Copernican Revolution.
In the following century, Johannes Kepler elaborated upon and expanded this model to शामिल elliptical orbits, and supporting observations बना using a telescope were presented by गैलीलियो गैलिली.
साथ the observations of William हर्शेल, Friedrich bessel, and अन्य, astronomers realized कि the sun was नहीं the center of the universe and by the 1920s Edwin हबल था दिखाया that it थी भाग of a galaxy ( the Milky रास्ता ) that was तभी एक of अनेक billions.
Norah जोन्स ( born Geetali Norah जोन्स शंकर ; March 30, 1979 ) is an American singer-songwriter, pianist, और अभिनेत्री.
वो is the daughter of Indian sitar player Ravi Shankar and मुकदमा जोन्स.
वो is also Anoushka शंकर 's half-sister.
in 2002, she launched उसके solo music career with the रिलीज of the commercially कामयाब and critically acclaimed album आइये Away with me, a fusion of देश music and पॉप साथ तत्व of जैज़ which was certified डायमंड एल्बम, selling over 26 लाख नक़ल.
The record earned Jones five Grammy Awards, including the Album of the साल, रिकार्ड of the Year, और Best New Artist.
Her subsequent studio albums, feels Like Home, released in 2004, नहीं too Late, released in 2007, the same year she बना her film डेब्यू in My Blueberry Nights, और उसके 2009 release the पतन all gained Platinum status, selling over a million copies and were generally well received by आलोचकों.
जोन्स ' fifth studio एल्बम, छोटी Broken Hearts, was released on अप्रैल 27, 2012.
Jones रै जीती nine ग्रैमी Awards और थी 60th on Billboard magazine 's कलाकारों of the 2000–2009 दशक चार्ट.
Throughout her career, Jones has won numerous awards और has sold अधिक than 50 million एल्बम worldwide.
Billboard नामित her the top jazz artist of the 2000–2009 decade.
Not to be confused साथ Dimension of a physical quantity.
For other उपयोग, see Dimension ( disambiguation ).
From left to सही, the square, the घन, and the tesseract.
The वर्गाकार is bounded by 1-dimensional लाइनों, the cube by 2-dimensional क्षेत्रों, और the tesseract by 3-dimensional volumes.
A प्रक्षेप of the cube is given चूंकि it is viewed on a two-dimensional screen.
the वही applies to the tesseract, जिससे additionally can तभी be दिखाया as a प्रक्षेप भी in three-dimensional स्पेस.
a diagram showing the पहला चार spatial आयाम.
In physics और mathematics, the dimension of a स्पेस or object is informally पारिभाषित as the न्यूनतम क्रमांक of निर्देशांक needed to बताएँ any point within it.
यूँ a line रै a dimension of एक because only one निर्देशांक is needed to specify a पाइंट on it ( लिये उदाहरण, the पाइंट at 5 on a क्रमांक line ).
a सतह ऐसे as a प्लेन or the सतह of a cylinder or गोला has a आयाम of two because two coordinates are needed to specify a पाइंट on it ( लिये example, to locate a point on the surface of a sphere you need दोनो its latitude and its longitude ).
The inside of a cube, a cylinder or a sphere is three-dimensional because three coordinates हैं needed to locate a point within ये स्पेसेस.
In शारीरिक terms, आयाम refers to the constituent structure of all स्पेस ( आवाज़ ) and इसके स्थिति in time ( आभास as a अदिश dimension along the t-axis ), as well as the स्थानिक constitution of objects within—structures that correlate साथ दोनो particle and field conceptions, interact according to सापेक्ष properties of द्रव्यमान —and हैं fundamentally mathematical in description.
These, or other axes, may be referenced to uniquely identify a पाइंट or ढांचा in its attitude and संबंध to other objects and occurrences.
Physical theories that incorporate time, such as general आपेक्षिकता, हैं said to work in 4-dimensional `` spacetime ``, ( defined as a Minkowski space ).
Modern theories tend to be `` higher-dimensional '' including quantum field और string theories.
the state-space of क्वांटम यांत्रिकी is an infinite-dimensional function स्पेस.
The अवधारणा of आयाम is नहीं restricted to शारीरिक objects.
High-dimensional स्पेसेस occur in mathematics and the sciences for अनेक कारण, frequently as विन्यास spaces ऐसे as in Lagrangian or हेमिल्टोनीय यांत्रिकी ; these are अमूर्त स्पेसेस, स्वतंत्र of the physical space we सजीव in.
Fontana ( ) is a city of 200,762 residents in सैन bernardino County, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
Founded in 1913, it remained essentially ग्रामीण until संसार War ii, when entrepreneur हेनरी J. Kaiser built a large steel mill in the area.
It is now a regional hub of the trucking industry, साथ Interstate 10 और State रूट 210 transecting the city इससे ईस्ट to west, और Interstate 15 passing diagonally through इसके northwestern quadrant.
It is home to the largest of the सैन bernardino County प्रणाली libraries, a renovated historic theater, a नगरपालिका park, and the Auto Club Speedway on the site of the कैसर Steel Mill.
fontana also होस्ट the fontana Days Half Marathon and 5K चलाएं.
This रेस is the fastest half-marathon course in the world.
The U.S. 2012 जनसांख्यिकी reported that fontana 's जनसांख्यिकी was 200,762 in 2012, making it the दूसरी सबसे populous नगर in सैन Bernardino काउंटी county और 14th in the राज्य.
Cowboys स्टेडियम is a stadium with a retractable roof in Arlington, Texas.
It serves as the home of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग 's डलास cowboys.
It replaced the partially covered Texas Stadium, which opened in 1971, and served as the Cowboys ' घर through the 2008 ऋतु.
It was completed on May 27, 2009.
The स्टेडियम सीटे 85,000, making it the third largest stadium in the NFL by seating capacity.
the maximum capacity of the स्टेडियम, including standing room, is 105,000.
The Party Pass ( open areas ) sections हैं पीछे सीटे in प्रत्येक end zone and on a series of six elevated प्लेटफ़ॉर्म connected by stairways.
It रै the संसार 's largest column-free interior और the fourth largest ऊँची definition video स्क्रीन, जिससे hangs इससे 20 यार्ड लकीर to 20 यार्ड लकीर.
the सुविधा can भी be used for a किस्में of अन्य क्रियाएँ बाहर of इसके main purpose ( पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल ) such as concerts, basketball games, boxing मिलान, कॉलेज football and ऊँची school फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिताओं, सॉकर matches, and motocross races.
कनाडाई historians until the 1980s tended to फ़ोकस on economic history, including श्रमिक history.
In भाग this is because Canada रै था far कम राजनैतिक or सैन्य विरोध than अन्य societies.
This थी विशेषकर सच्चा in the first हाफ of the twentieth century जब economic इतिहास थी overwhelmingly dominant.
अनेक of the most prominent English Canadian historians इससे इस period were economic इतिहासकारों, ऐसे as हेरोल्ड innis, Donald Creighton and Arthur R. M. Lower
विद्वानों of Canadian history यहूद heirs to the traditions that developed in Europe and the United States, but frameworks कि worked खूब elsewhere often failed in Canada.
The heavily Marxist influenced economic history कि dominates Europe रै little relevance to most of कनाडाई इतिहास.
a फ़ोकस on class, urban क्षेत्रों, और industry fails to address Canada 's ग्रामीण and resource आधारित economy.
Similarly, the monetarist स्कूल that is dominant in the संयुक्त States also रै been मुश्किल to transfer north of the border.
The study of economic इतिहास in कनाडा became अत्यधिक focused on economic geography, and लिये many सालो the dominant school of thought has been the staples लेख.
This school of thought bases the study of the Canadian economy on the study of प्राकृतिक resources.
This approach has since also become used outside of Canada in ऑस्ट्रेलिया and in अनेक विकासशील nations.
पहले the arrival of Europeans, the पहला Nations of what होता become Canada था a विशाल and vibrant व्यापार network.
Furs, टूल्स, decorative items, और other goods यहूद often transported हज़ारों of kilometres, ज़्यादातर by canoe throughout the अनेक rivers and lakes of the region.
the early यूरोपीय history of the कनाडाई economy is usually पढ़ाई through the staples thesis जिससे argues the कनाडाई अर्थव्यवस्था विकसित through the exploitation of a series of staples कि होता be exported to यूरोपीय.
Carbon-14, 14C, or radiocarbon, is a radioactive समस्थानिक of carbon साथ a nucleus containing 6 protons and 8 neutrons.
Its presence in सशुल्क सामग्री is the basis of the radiocarbon डेटिंग विधि pioneered by Willard लिब्बी and सहयोगियों ( 1949 ) to तिथि पुरातत्व, geological and hydrogeological नमूने.
Carbon-14 थी discovered on 27 February 1940, by मार्टिन कामेन and sam Ruben at the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया विकिरण Laboratory in Berkeley, हालांकि its existence had been सुझाया by फ्रांज kurie in 1934.
There हैं तीन naturally occurring isotopes of carbon on Earth : 99 % of the कार्बन is carbon-12, 1 % is carbon-13, and carbon-14 occurs in trace amounts, i.e., making up परिचय 1 part per trillion ( 0.0000000001 % ) of the carbon in the माहौल.
The half-life of carbon-14 is 5,730±40 सालो.
Carbon-14 decays into nitrogen-14 through beta क्षय.
The primary natural source of carbon-14 on धरती is लौकिक ray कार्रवाई upon नाइट्रोजन in the माहौल, and it is इसलिए a cosmogenic nuclide.
However, open-air नाभिकीय परीक्षण between 1955–1980 contributed to इस पूल.
The different isotopes of कार्बन do नहीं differ appreciably in their रासायनिक properties.
This is प्रयुक्त in रासायनिक and biological research, in a तकनीक पुकारा carbon labeling : carbon-14 अणु can be प्रयुक्त to replace nonradioactive कार्बन, in order to ट्रेस रासायनिक and biochemical प्रतिक्रियाएँ involving carbon atoms from any given सशुल्क यौगिक.
Lightning is a highly दृश्य form of energy transfer
Lightning हमलों are विद्युत discharges on a विशाल scale between the माहौल and an earth-bound object.
वे mostly originate in thunderclouds और terminate on the मैदान, called बादल to Ground ( CG ) बिजली.
However, they may भी be initiated from a very tall grounded object और पहुँचें into the बादल.
Although `` a बिजली स्ट्राइक '' is commonly प्रयुक्त to describe सब lightning, it is rather ग़लत and a misnomer, as तभी परिचय 25 % of सब बिजली कार्यक्रम विश्वव्यापी हैं CG, the विशाल bulk of lightning कार्यक्रम are Intracloud ( IC ) or Cloud to Cloud ( cc ), where discharge only occurs high in the atmosphere.
the वैज्ञानिक name for the पूरा process of a सिंगल बिजली event is a और it is a very complex, अनेक stepped interaction, which is not completely understood.
Most cg flashes तभी `` स्ट्राइक '' one शारीरिक location, referred to as a termination.
The प्राथमिक conducting channel, the bright coursing light you may see and call a `` strike '', is only about 1 इंच in diameter, हालांकि to our eyes it looks much larger.
They are miles long, upwards of tens of मील.
And the entire flash, lasts तभी a few भिन्नों of a second, most of which is not दृश्य to human eyes.
Thunder is सदा produced by lightning.
बस like बिजली, कि deceives our eyes, usually looking larger or करीब than it really is, the earth 's atmosphere and our brain 's perception of the बाहर संसार, ultimately determines whether it is `` heard '' or not.
बिजली can not happen in a vacuum विहीन of ions, nor can thunder occur without molecules to vibrate.
Thunder is a physical absolute लिये every single फ्लैश of lightning.
Contrary to लोकप्रिय belief, a lightning स्ट्राइक itself is usually not जिम्मेदार लिये अनेक मौतों or injuries from a सिंगल इवेंट.
it would be impossible given the प्राकृतिक tendencies of a फ्लैश, जबतक people or पशु were stacked on शीर्ष of प्रत्येक अन्य, or वे यहूद somehow arranged vertically और part of the flash channel.
When बिजली ignites an available fuel source और an explosion occurs, it is the शॉक वेव or आग causing the injuries, not the strike itself.
Ground Currents, भी पुकारा कदम potential, of an earth termination is कया truly causes सबसे चोटों or death to इंसानो और animals.
The near instantaneous फटाफट of surface charges, induced by the ओवरहेड thundercloud itself, race to the strike पाइंट from hundreds to हज़ारों of feet away दौरान निर्वहन.
इस current, caused during each stroke, takes the path of least प्रतिरोध, which may be ion rich human or एनिमल legs, over poorly conducting earth.
इस is why it is best to crouch, साथ feet close together, if ever caught in the open during a thunderstorm.
Unfortunately, सबसे रिपोर्ट्स do not चित्रण a distinction between the रियल cause of injury or मौत, be it the strike itself, a resulting विस्फोट or fire, or usually responsible step संभावित.
Peter F. kilmartin ( born 1962 ) is the वर्तमान Attorney General of Rhode द्वीप.
Kilmartin is भी a रिटायर्ड पुलिस captain and a former member of the Rhode द्वीप हाउस of Representatives.
A couple following their marriage in the Manti Utah टेम्पल.
sealing is an अध्यादेश ( अनुष्ठान ) performed in Latter दिन Saints temples by a person holding the sealing प्राधिकार.
the purpose of this ordinance is to seal familiar relationships, making possible the existence of family संबंध throughout शाश्वत.
lds teachings प्लेस great महत्व on the specific authority required to perform these sealings.
गिरिजाघर doctrine सिखाती that this प्राधिकार, called the priesthood, corresponds to that given to Saint Peter in.
sealings are typically performed as marriages or as sealing of children to parents.
वे were performed prior to the death of Joseph स्मिथ, Jr. ( the प्रमुख संस्थापक of the latter दिन Saint गति ), and are currently performed in The Church of Jesus मसीह of Latter-day संतो.
Although कुछ other denominations, such as the Community of Christ, दृश्य sealing as an artifact of Smith 's अभ्यास of plural marriage, some do still perform उन्हें.
The 2000s, सुनाया `` two हज़ारों '', was a दशक that began on जनवरी 1, 2000, और ended on December 31, 2009.
वैश्वीकरण, which had accelerated बाद the early 1990s fall of communism, continued to be a force in the 2000s.
the growth of the Internet was एक of the प्रधान contributors to globalization दौरान the दशक, making it possible लिये लोगों to interact with अन्य लोगों, express ideas, introduce others to अलग cultures and पृष्ठभूमि, उपयोग goods और services, sell और buy online, research and learn परिचय things, साथ साथ experiencing the world without having to छोड़ home.
the संस्थानों, linkages और technologies कि emerged or were redefined earlier would subsequently in इस दशक benefit many countries, in particular China और India.
However, in अन्य parts of the world such progress failed to address जारी struggles with modernity, most notably characterized by the वृद्धि of al-qaeda and other इस्लामवादी groups.
The September 11 attacks in 2001 led to the संयुक्त राज्य, United किंगडम, स्पेन, Canada and other राष्ट्र आक्रमणकारी Afghanistan, as खूब as implementing various anti-terrorist measures at home और abroad in what was known as the War on आतंक.
the European संघ देखी further संयोजन और expansion throughout much of Europe.
The economic growth of the 2000s had considerable पर्यावरणीय consequences, raised demand लिये घटाते energy resources, and was स्टिल shown to be vulnerable as demonstrated दौरान the Global Financial Crisis of the लेट 2000s.
The Gunfight at the O.K. corral was a gunfight कि took place at about 3:00 p.m. on Wednesday, October 26, 1881, in tombstone, Arizona Territory, and is generally regarded as the most famous gunfight in the history of the American Old वेस्ट.
The gunfight, believed to have lasted तभी about thirty सेकेंड, थी लड़ा between the गैरकानूनी Cowboys Billy claiborne, आइक और Billy clanton, and tom और फ़्रैंक mclaury, and the opposing town Marshal Virgil Earp and उसके brothers Assistant Town मार्शल मॉर्गन and अस्थाई lawman व्याट, aided by दस्तावेज़ हॉलिडे designated as a temporary marshal by Virgil.
आइक Clanton and बिली Claiborne ran from the लड़ो unharmed, लकिन आइक 's bhai Billy Clanton was मारे, along साथ दोनो McLaurys.
Lawmen वर्जिल and Morgan earp and Doc हॉलिडे were wounded.
Only व्याट earp आए through the लड़ो unharmed.
The fight has come to represent a time in अमरीकी history जब the frontier was open range लिये outlaws opposed by law enforcement that was स्प्रेड thin over विशाल territories, leaving कुछ क्षेत्रों unprotected.
the gunfight was not खूब ज्ञात to the American public until 1931 जब लेखक स्टुअर्ट Lake प्रकाशित what has since महरूम determined to be a largely fictionalized जीवनी, Wyatt earp : Frontier Marshal, दो years बाद Earp 's death.
झील retold his story in a 1946 book that director जॉन घाट विकसित into the फिल्म My Darling Clementine.
After the movie Gunfight at the O.K. Corral थी released in 1957, the shootout came to be known by that name.
चूंकि then, the conflict has been portrayed साथ varying degrees of accuracy in numerous पश्चिमी films and किताबे.
despite इसके name, the gunfight actually occurred in a सीमित लॉट six doors west of the rear प्रवेश to the o.k. Corral on Fremont Street, and भी in the गली.
the two opposing parties were initially तभी about अलावा.
About thirty shots were fired in तीस seconds.
आइक clanton filed हत्या आरोप विरूद्ध the Earps और Doc Holliday but वे were eventually exonerated by a लोकल judge after a 30-day preliminary hearing and then again by a लोकल ग्रैंड jury.
On December 28, 1881, Virgil Earp was maimed in an assassination attempt by the outlaw cowboys, और on March 18, 1882, they assassinated Morgan Earp.
The संदिग्धों सुसज्जित solid alibis, and newly appointed Deputy U.S. मार्शल व्याट Earp took matters into उसके own hands during the earp वेंडेट्टा सवारी, ironically pursued by county Sheriff Johnny behan with वारंट for the earp 's arrest.
HDMI ( High-Definition Multimedia Interface ) is a compact audio/video interface लिये transferring uncompressed वीडियो data और compressed/uncompressed digital audio data from a HDMI-compliant device ( `` the सोर्स device '' ) to a compatible computer मॉनिटर, वीडियो projector, digital television, or डिजिटल audio device.
hdmi is a डिजिटल replacement for existing analog वीडियो मानकों.
वहीँ हैं a क्रमांक of HDMI-standard केबल कनेक्टर्स उपलब्धियाँ, each of which can be used लिये any uncompressed TV or pc video format, including standard, उन्नत, high परिभाषा, and 3D वीडियो signals ; up to 8 channels of संपीडित or uncompressed digital audio ; a cec ( Consumer Electronics Control ) कनेक्शन ; और an Ethernet data connection.
HDMI implements the eia/cea-861 मानकों, which define video स्वरुप और waveforms, transport of संपीडित, uncompressed, and lpcm ऑडियो, auxiliary data, और implementations of the vesa EDID.
The CEC allows hdmi डिवाइस to कंट्रोल प्रत्येक अन्य when necessary and allows the user to operate multiple डिवाइस साथ one remote कंट्रोल handset.
क्युकी HDMI is electrically compatible with the CEA-861 सिग्नल used by digital visual interface ( dvi ), no signal परिवर्तन is जरुरी, nor is there a घाटा of video विशेषता when a dvi-to-hdmi एडाप्टर is used.
as an uncompressed cea-861 connection, hdmi is independent of the विभिन्न डिजिटल television मानकों used by individual डिवाइस, ऐसे as atsc and dvb, as these are encapsulations of compressed MPEG video streams ( जिससे can be decoded and output as an uncompressed video stream on HDMI ).
Production of consumer hdmi उत्पाद started in लेट 2003.
In Europe either DVI-HDCP or HDMI is शामिल in the HD तैयार in-store labeling specification for TV sets लिये HDTV, formulated by EICTA साथ SES अस्त्र in 2005.
HDMI began to appear on उपभोक्ता hdtv camcorders and digital स्टिल कैमरे in 2006.
as of जनवरी 8, 2013, which is ten सालो after the release of the first hdmi specification, over 3 billion HDMI डिवाइस have shipped चूंकि the लॉन्च of the hdmi standard.
Bree वैन de Kamp ( née Mason ; भी ज्ञात in the श्रेणी as ब्री Hodge और Bree Weston ) is a fictional character और one of the चार protagonists on the ABC television series हताश Housewives.
वो is played by actress Marcia Cross, who has प्राप्त multiple awards और nominations for her portrayal, including an Emmy Award नामांकन, तीन Golden Globe Award nominations, और दो स्क्रीन Actors Guild Awards.
Cross 's portrayal of Bree has been widely praised by आलोचकों और fans.
Cross originally auditioned for the भूमिका of Mary Alice यंग, but series creator Marc चेरी विचार she थी better suited for the role of Bree.
Dana Delany, who आखिरकार was डाल as Katherine mayfair, was originally chosen लिये the role but turned it down, saying it थी too समान to her भूमिका in Pasadena.
ब्री 's main struggle throughout the series has been her कोशिशें to maintain a पूर्ण life despite विभिन्न obstacles such as widowhood, तलाक, and alcoholism hindering her.
वो रै been शादीशुदा three टाइम्स ; to Rex वैन de Kamp ( Steven Culp ), orson Hodge ( काइल maclachlan ) और Trip वेस्टन ( स्कॉट bakula ).
See भी the Town of Algoma in Winnebago County, विस्कॉन्सिन.
See also Algoma ( बहुविकल्पी ).
algoma is a नगर in Kewaunee County in the u.S. राज्य of Wisconsin.
the जनसांख्यिकी was 3,167 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
Algoma is part of the ग्रीन खाड़ी महानगर सांख्यिकीय Area.
The hangover Part II is a 2011 अमरीकी comedy film produced by Legendary Pictures and वितरित by warner Bros. Pictures.
It is the sequel to 2009 's The Hangover और the दूसरी film in The hangover मताधिकार.
टॉड Phillips निर्देशित the फिल्मी in जोड to co-authoring the स्क्रिप्ट with Craig mazin, और scot Armstrong.
the film stars Bradley Cooper, Ed helms, Zach galifianakis, केन jeong, जेफरी Tambor, Justin Bartha and पॉल giamatti.
the hangover भाग ii tells the story of Phil, stu, एलन, and Doug as they सफर to Thailand लिये Stu 's विवाह.
After the bachelor party in लास Vegas, stu takes no chances and opts for a safe, subdued pre-wedding brunch.
however, things do not go as नियोजित, resulting in another bad hangover with no memories of the previous रात्रि.
विकास of The Hangover Part II began in April 2009, दो महीने पहले the hangover was released.
The principal actors were cast in March 2010 to reprise their roles इससे the first फिल्मी.
Production began in October 2010, in Ontario, California, before चलती on स्थान in Thailand.
the फिल्मी was released on May 26, 2011 और, despite receiving ज़्यादातर ऋणात्मक समीक्षाएँ from आलोचकों, it became the highest-grossing r-rated कॉमेडी during its नाट्य run.
A third film is set लिये on may 24, 2013.
यंग Man Among गुलाब, portrait miniature by निकोलस hilliard, 1588, V & a.
Believed to be the Earl of Essex
The ditchley Portrait of Elizabeth I by the foreign Marcus Gheeraerts the younger, c.1592
The English पुनर्जागरण was a cultural और कलाकारी गति in England डेटिंग from the लेट 15th और early 16th centuries to the early 17th सदी.
it is associated with the pan-European पुनर्जागरण that is प्रायः regarded as beginning in Italy in the लेट 14th century.
Like most of northern Europe, इंग्लैण्ड देखी little of these developments until अधिक than a सदी later.
the शुरूआत of the अंग्रेज़ी Renaissance is often taken, as a convenience, to be 1485, when the Battle of Bosworth फ़ील्ड ended the Wars of the Roses and उदघाटन the Tudor राजवंश.
पुनर्जागरण style और विचार, however, were slow in penetrating England, and the Elizabethan era in the second हाफ of the 16th century is usually regarded as the height of the अंग्रेज़ी Renaissance.
Elizabeth ऐन bloomer Warren `` Betty '' Ford ( अप्रैल 8, 1918 – जुलाई 8, 2011 ), थी First Lady of the संयुक्त States from 1974 to 1977 दौरान the प्रेसिडेंसी of her husband Gerald Ford.
as First महिला, वो was active in सोशल policy और निर्मित precedents as a politically active presidential wife.
Throughout उसके husband 's पद in दफ्तर, she कायम ऊँची स्वीकृति ratings despite opposition from some रूढ़िवादी republicans जो objected to उसके अधिक मॉडरेट और उदार positions on social issues.
घाट was noted for raising breast cancer जागरूकता following उसके 1974 mastectomy और was a passionate supporter of, and activist for, the बराबर Rights Amendment ( ERA ).
pro-choice on abortion and a नेता in the Women 's गति, she gained fame as एक of the सबसे candid first ladies in इतिहास, commenting on प्रत्येक hot-button issue of the time, सहित feminism, बराबर pay, the ERA, sex, दवाएँ, गर्भपात, और gun control.
She also raised awareness of addiction जब वो announced her long-running battle with alcoholism in the 1970s.
Following her White House सालो, she जारी to lobby लिये the ERA and remained active in the feminist गति.
वो थी the founder, and परोसा as the first कुर्सी of the फलक of directors, of the बेट्टी Ford बीच for पदार्थ abuse और addiction और is a recipient of the Congressional Gold पदक ( co-presentation with her husband, Gerald R. Ford, अक्तूबर 21, 1998 ) and the Presidential Medal of Freedom ( अलोन, presented 1991, by George H. W. बुश ).
platelet endothelial कोशिका adhesion molecule ( PECAM-1 ) also ज्ञात as cluster of differentiation 31 ( CD31 ) is a protein कि in human is encoded by the PECAM1 gene मिला on chromosome 17.
PECAM-1 plays a key role in removing aged neutrophils from the देह.
Jessica Rafalowski, Miss Florida यूएसए 2008
जेन्ना Edwards, Miss फ्लोरिडा यूएसए 2007
Melissa Witek, Miss Florida USA 2005
क्रिस्टन Berset, Miss फ्लोरिडा USA 2004
the Miss Florida USA प्रतियोगिता is the pageant कि selects the representative लिये the state फ्लोरिडा in the मिस यूएसए pageant.
जबकि फ्लोरिडा has been कामयाब in terms of runners-up, finalists and semi-finalists, the state has never won the Miss USA pageant, हालांकि चेरिल Patton became Miss यूएसए बाद सिल्विया Hitchcock जीती मिस Universe.
फ्लोरिडा 's best परिणाम यहूद दौरान the mid-1960s to mid-1970s.
उनके most recent फाइनलिस्ट was Lissette Garcia जो placed in the top 16 in 2011.
दो former Miss फ्लोरिडा Teen USA titleholders have won इस प्रतियोगिता, and three titleholders have also competed at Miss अमेरिका.
the current titleholder is मिशेल Aguirre of Hialeah.
anglo-saxon England refers to the period of the history of the भाग of Britain कि became known as इंग्लैण्ड, lasting from the end of रोमन occupation and स्थापना of anglo-saxon kingdoms in the 5th सदी until the नॉर्मन conquest of England in 1066 by विलियम the Conqueror.
anglo-saxon is a सामान्य term referring to the Germanic peoples who came to ब्रिटेन during the 5th and 6th centuries, सहित Angles, Saxons, frisii, and jutes.
The पद also refers to the language spoken at the time in England, which is now called बूढ़ा English, and to the culture of the era, which has long आकर्षित लोकप्रिय और scholarly attention.
Until the 9th century Anglo-Saxon England was dominated by the Heptarchy, the kingdoms of Northumbria, mercia, East Anglia, एसेक्स, केंट, ससेक्स, और Wessex.
In शर्तें of religion the kingdoms followed Anglo-Saxon paganism during the early period, लकिन converted to Christianity during the 7th सदी.
Paganism had a final stronghold in a काल of mercian hegemony दौरान the 640s, ending with the death of Penda of Mercia in 655.
Facing the threat of viking invasions, the हाउस of Wessex became dominant दौरान the 9th century, अंतर्गत the rule of Alfred the Great.
दौरान the 10th century, the व्यक्तिगत kingdoms एकीकृत under the नियम of wessex into the Kingdom of England, which stood opposed to the Danelaw, the viking kingdoms स्थापित from the 9th century in the उत्तर और ईस्ट of England.
The Kingdom of इंग्लैण्ड गिरी in the Viking आक्रमण इससे Denmark in 1013 and was ruled by the हाउस of डेनमार्क until 1042, when the anglo-saxon House of wessex was लौटी.
The last anglo-saxon किंग, हेरोल्ड Godwinson, was मारे in 1066 at the बैटल of हास्टिंग्स.
Lighting a traditional रेड ईंटों जॉन रॉस Jr kiln
Smoked salmon is a preparation of सामन, typically a fillet कि has been cured और hot or cold smoked.
due to इसके moderately ऊँची price, smoked सामन is considered a delicacy.
हालांकि the पद lox is sometimes लागू to smoked salmon, they are different products.
दृश्य of defibrillator एलेक्ट्रोड स्थिति और placement.
Defibrillation is a common treatment for life-threatening हृदय dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, and pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic dose of electrical उर्जा to the affected दिल साथ a यंत्र called a defibrillator.
इस depolarizes a critical mass of the दिल मांसपेशी, terminates the dysrhythmia, and allows सामान्य sinus लय to be reestablished by the body 's natural pacemaker, in the sinoatrial node of the heart.
Defibrillators can be बाह्य, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the type of यंत्र used or needed.
कुछ external इकाई, known as automated बाह्य defibrillators ( aeds ), automate the diagnosis of treatable rhythms, अर्थ that lay responders or bystanders are समर्थ to use them सफलतापूर्वक साथ little, or in some cases no training at सब.
gabrielle `` कोको '' bonheur चैनल ( August 19, 1883 – January 10, 1971 ) थी a French fashion designer and संस्थापक of the Chanel brand.
She was the only fashion designer to appear on Time magazine 's list of the 100 सबसे influential लोगों of the 20th सदी.
Along with पॉल Poiret, Chanel थी credited साथ liberating महिलाओं इससे the constraints of the `` corseted silhouette '' and popularizing the acceptance of a sportive, casual chic as the feminine standard in the post- संसार War i era.
A prolific fashion creator, चैनल 's influence विस्तारित beyond couture clothing.
Her design aesthetic थी realized in आभूषण, handbags, और fragrance.
उसके signature सैंट, Chanel No. 5, has become an iconic product.
Chanel was known लिये उसके lifelong determination, ambition and energy जिससे वो लागू to उसके professional और social जीवन.
वो achieved दोनो कामयाबी as a businesswoman and social prominence thanks to the connections वो made through her work.
These included many कलाकारों and craftspeople to जिसको she became a संरक्षक.
however, चैनल 's highly competitive, opportunistic personality led उसके to make questionable life choices which have generated विवाद around her प्रतिष्ठा, particularly her behaviour during the जर्मनी occupation of France in World War II.
अलाइड Mills flour mill on the banks of the Manchester Ship Canal
A gristmill ( also : grist mill, corn mill or आटा mill ) grinds grain into आटा.
The term can refer to both the grinding mechanism and the भवन कि holds it.
रोमानिया ( ; dated spellings roumania and Rumania ; ) is a country स्तिथ at the intersection of Central and Southeastern यूरोपीय, bordering on the ब्लैक Sea.
रोमानिया साझा a border साथ हंगेरियाई and Serbia to the west, Ukraine and Moldova to the northeast and ईस्ट, and बुल्गारिया to the दक्षिण.
At, रोमानिया is the eighth largest देश of the European Union by क्षेत्रफल, और has the seventh largest population of the यूरोपीय Union with more than 19 लाख people.
इसके capital and biggest city is बुखारेस्ट, the 11th largest नगर in the EU.
The United principalities emerged when the territories of Moldavia और wallachia were संयुक्त under Prince Alexander ioan Cuza in 1859.
in 1866 Prince karl of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen थी पुकारा to the throne as the Ruling Prince of the रोमानियाई Principate and in 1881 he was finally पहनाया as किंग Carol I the first monarch of the Kingdom of Romania.
Independence इससे the उस्मानी Empire was declared on 9 May 1877, and was internationally पहचाना the following साल.
At the समाप्त of World युद्ध I, Transylvania, bukovina and bessarabia united with the Kingdom of रोमानिया.
संसार युद्ध II gave cause to the rise of a सैन्य तानाशाही in Romania under फासिस्ट सामान्य Ion Antonescu, who chose to लड़ो on the side of the Axis शक्तियां from 1941 to 1944.
बाद his removal, Romania switched sides in 1944 and joined the Allies.
by the end of the war, कुछ formerly Romanian northeastern territories were occupied by the Soviet संघ, with रेड फौज इकाई stationed on Romanian मृदा.
In 1947 Romania forcibly became a People 's गणतंत्र ( 1947-1965 ) and a सदस्य of the Warsaw Pact.
in 1965 nicolae Ceauşescu became सामान्य सचिव of the Romanian Communist Party, and the harsh austerity उपायों, राजनैतिक repression, and cult of personality he implemented led to the समाजवादी गणतंत्र of Romania ( 1965-1989 ) becoming the most Stalinist police state in the Eastern bloc.
Eventually उसके authoritarian सरकारी थी toppled in December 1989 during the रोमानियाई Revolution of 1989.
With the fall of the Iron Curtain, Romania began इसके परिवर्तन towards democracy and a capitalist मार्केट economy.
After a decade of post-revolution economic problems और living-standards decline, extensive reforms fostered economic रिकवरी.
As of 2010, रोमानिया is an upper-middle-income देश with a ऊँची human विकास index.
रोमानिया joined NATO on 29 कूच 2004, और the यूरोपीय संघ on 1 January 2007.
It is भी a सदस्य of the : Latin संघ, francophonie, osce, wto, BSEC, United राष्ट्र, etc.
Today, रोमानिया is a unitary semi-presidential गणतंत्र, in which the executive branch consists of the President and the Government.
`` प्राचीन '' redirects here.
For other उपयोग, देखिए Antiquity ( बहुविकल्पी ).
the times पहले writing belong either to protohistory or to प्रागितिहास.
Khafre 's पिरामिड ( 4th dynasty ) और ग्रेट sphinx of गीज़ा ( c. 2500 BC or perhaps earlier )
प्राचीन history is the पढ़ाई of the written past इससे the शुरूआत of recorded human history to the Early मध्य Ages.
The स्पैन of अंकित history is roughly 5,000 सालो, with cuneiform script, the oldest discovered रूप of coherent लिखने, from the protoliterate period around the 30th century BC.
इस is the beginning of history, as opposed to prehistory, according to the परिभाषा used by most इतिहासकारों.
the term classical antiquity is प्रायः used to refer to history in the Old संसार इससे the beginning of recorded Greek इतिहास in 776 bc ( पहला ओलंपियाड ).
This roughly coincides with the परंपरागत तिथि of the founding of Rome in 753 bc, the beginning of the history of ancient Rome, और the शुरूआत of the archaic period in Ancient यूनानियों.
Although the समाप्ति date of प्राचीन इतिहास is disputed, कुछ Western scholars use the fall of the Western Roman Empire in 476 ad, the closure of the platonic अकादमी in 529 AD, the death of the सम्राट जुस्तिनियन I, the coming of islam or the वृद्धि of Charlemagne as the समाप्त of ancient and Classical European history.
in India, the period includes the जल्दी period of the मध्य kingdoms, and, in चीन, the time up to the Qin राजवंश is included.
methylcobalamin ( shown ) is a form of vitamin B12.
Physically it resembles the other forms of vitamin B12, occurring as dark रेड crystals that freely रूप cherry-colored transparent solutions in water.
Vitamin b12, vitamin B12 or vitamin B-12, also called cobalamin, is a water-soluble vitamin with a कुंजी भूमिका in the सामान्य कामकाज of the brain and बेचैन system, and लिये the गठन of blood.
it is one of the eight b vitamins.
It is normally involved in the metabolism of every कोशिका of the इंसान body, especially affecting डीएनए संश्लेषण और regulation, but also वसीय एसिड synthesis and energy production.
neither fungi, plants, nor animals हैं सक्षम of producing vitamin b12.
Only bacteria और आर्किया have the enzymes जरूरी लिये its synthesis, although अनेक foods are a natural source of B12 क्युकी of bacterial symbiosis.
The vitamin is the largest और most structurally जटिल vitamin and can be produced industrially only through बैक्टीरियल fermentation-synthesis.
Vitamin B12 consists of a क्लास of chemically सम्बन्धित compounds ( vitamers ), all of जिससे have vitamin कार्यकलाप.
it contains the biochemically विरल तत्व cobalt.
जैवसंश्लेषण of the basic structure of the vitamin is संपन्नता only by bacteria ( जिससे प्रायः produce hydroxocobalamin ), लकिन परिवर्तन between different फ़ॉर्म of the विटामिन can be accomplished in the इंसान body.
A common semi-synthetic रूप of the vitamin, cyanocobalamin, does not occur in प्रकृति, but is produced इससे bacterial hydroxocobalamin और तब प्रयुक्त in many दवाएँ और पूरक, और as a food additive, because of its स्थिरता and निम्नतर उत्पादन लागत.
in the देह it is converted to the human physiological forms methylcobalamin और adenosylcobalamin, leaving behind the cyanide, albeit in minimal concentration.
More recently, hydroxocobalamin, methylcobalamin, और adenosylcobalamin can be found in more expensive pharmacological उत्पाद और food supplements.
The अतिरिक्त utility of these is फिलहाल debated.
विटामिन B12 was discovered from इसके relationship to the disease pernicious anemia, which is an autoimmune बीमारी in which parietal cells of the stomach जिम्मेदार for secreting intrinsic फ़ैक्टर are destroyed.
मूलभूत फ़ैक्टर is crucial लिये the normal अवशोषण of B12, so a lack of मूलभूत factor, as देखी in pernicious anemia, causes a vitamin B12 deficiency.
अनेक other subtler kinds of vitamin B12 deficiency and उनके biochemical effects have since been elucidated.
The रोमन Empire ( ) थी the post- Republican काल of the ancient रोमन civilization, characterised by an autocratic form of सरकारी and large territorial holdings around the Mediterranean in Europe, Africa, and Asia.
The 500-year-old रोमन गणतंत्र, जिससे preceded it, had महरूम destabilized through a series of civil wars.
अनेक events marked the transition इससे Republic to Empire, सहित जूलियस Caesar 's appointment as perpetual dictator ( 44 bc ) ; the Battle of actium ( 31 BC ) ; and the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the Roman सीनेट ( 27 bc ).
The first two centuries of the Empire were a period of unprecedented स्थिरता and prosperity ज्ञात as the Pax Romana ( `` Roman सलाम '' ).
It पहुँचे इसके महानतम expanse दौरान the reign of Trajan ( 98–117 ad ).
in the 3rd सदी, the Empire underwent a crisis कि threatened इसके existence, but was reunified and stabilized under the emperors aurelian and Diocletian.
Christians rose to शक्ति in the 4th सदी, during which समय a system of dual rule थी developed in the Latin वेस्ट and Greek ईस्ट.
बाद the collapse of central सरकारी in the वेस्ट in the 5th century, the पूर्वी half जारी as कया would later be known as the Byzantine Empire.
Because of the Empire 's विशाल extent and long सहनशीलता, the institutions and संस्कृति of रोम had a profound and lasting influence on the development of language, religion, architecture, philosophy, विधि, और forms of government in the territory it governed, विशेषकर यूरोपीय, and by अर्थात् of यूरोपीय expansionism throughout the modern world.
Total देह सतह area ( TBSA ) is an मूल्यांकन माप of burns of the skin.
In वयस्कों, the `` rule of nines '' is used to determine the total percentage of area burned for each प्रमुख section of the देह.
In some cases, the burns may cover more than one body भाग, or may not fully cover ऐसे a part ; in these मामले, burns are measured by using the casualty 's palm as a सन्दर्भ point for 1 % of the देह.
For children and infants, the lund-browder chart is used to assess the burned देह सतह area.
अलग percentages are प्रयुक्त क्युकी the ratio of the combined surface area of the head and गर्दन to the सतह क्षेत्रफल of the limbs is typically larger in children than that of an वयस्क.
Typical मान for आम groups of humans follow.
( Due to rounding, values may not add to 100 %. )
World infant मृत्यु rates by five सालो averages in 2008.
इस is a list of countries by शिशु मृत्यु रेट.
Jonah किर्स्टन Sorrentino ( born जून 26, 1975 ), better known by उसके stage name KJ-52, is a ईसाई rapper from Tampa, फ्लोरिडा.
the `` kj '' part of his नाम refers to his old रैप alias, `` King J. मैक, '' a नाम जिससे he later वर्णित in एक of उसके podcasts as `` horribly cheesy. ''
`` 52 '', जिससे is pronounced `` पाँच two '', not `` fifty-two '', is a reference to the biblical story of यीशु feeding the multitude साथ five loaves और two fish, जिससे is भी sung about in his सोंग `` धक्का Up '' इससे the Yearbook and in the `` KJ Five Two '' on it 's Pronounced 'Five दो.
He थी awarded the Rap/Hip Hop अंकित Song of the साल for `` Never dekh दूर '' and Rap/Hip Hop Album of the साल at the GMA Dove Awards of 2007.
On जुलाई 28, 2009, kj-52 released `` End of My Rope '', which is the first सिंगल लिये उसके album Five-Two टेलीविज़न.
His song `` Dear पतला '' is आधारित on एमिनेम 's song `` Stan `` और is a sort of निजी message from kj-52 to Eminem.
The degree symbol ( ° ) is a typographical symbol कि is used, among other बाते, to represent डिग्री of चाप ( e.g. in भौगोलिक coordinate systems ), hours ( in the medical फ़ील्ड ), or degrees of तापमान.
The symbol consists of a small raised वृत्त, historically a zero glyph.
In युनिकोड it is एनकोडेड at.
This is a सूची of roots, suffixes, and prefixes used in चिकित्सा terminology, their meanings, and their etymology.
वहीँ हैं a few rules जब using चिकित्सा जड़ें.
Firstly, prefixes और suffixes, primarily in Greek, but also in Latin, have a droppable -o-.
As a सामान्य नियम, this -o- लगभग सदा acts as a joint-stem to connect दो consonantal जड़ें, e.g. arthr- + -o- + logy = arthrology.
But generally, the -o- is dropped when connecting to a vowel-stem ; e.g. arthr- + itis = arthritis, बजाय of arthr-o-itis.
Secondly, medical roots generally go together according to language : Greek prefixes go साथ यूनानी suffixes and लैटिन prefixes साथ लैटिन प्रत्यय.
Although international वैज्ञानिक vocabulary is नहीं stringent परिचय segregating combining फ़ॉर्म of different भाषाएं, it is advisable when coining new शब्द not to mix different lingual roots.
पेट cancer, or gastric cancer, refers to कर्कट arising इससे कोई भाग of the stomach.
पेट cancer कल्याणकारी परिचय 800,000 deaths worldwide per साल.
Prognosis is poor ( 5-year survival < 5 to 15 % ) because most मरीजों present with उन्नत disease.
सारा Lynn इवांस ( born February 5, 1971 ) is an American country singer and songwriter.
लिये उसके संपूर्ण करियर, she has been हस्ताक्षरित to RCA Records नैशविले.
इवांस ' debut, Three Chords और the सच्चाई, did not उपज a Top 40 hit on the hot देश गीतों charts.
She followed this up with No Place कि Far ( 1998 ), Born to Fly ( 2000 ), Restless ( 2003 ) और Real Fine Place ( 2005 ).
No Place That दूर received a gold certification इससे the Recording उद्योग संघ of America ( RIAA ), while the अन्य तीन एल्बम all were certified platinum.
ये discs include the क्रमांक 1 singles `` no प्लेस कि दूर ``, `` Born to Fly ``, `` Suds in the Bucket `` and `` a Real ठीक Place to प्रारंभ ``, प्लस the top 10 hits `` i Could नहीं पूछो for अधिक `` ( a कवर of the एडविन मैक्केन song ), `` i Keep Looking ``, `` पूर्ण `` and `` cheatin ' ``.
उसके 2007 महानतम Hits included the top 15 hits `` You 'll Always be my baby `` और `` As If ``.
Stronger ( 2011 ) शामिल उसके fifth number 1 hit, `` A Little Bit Stronger ``, which was co-written by हिलेरी Scott of Lady antebellum.
Evans has also जीती one award प्रत्येक इससे Billboard, the अकादमी of देश Music, Country म्यूज़िक Association, Broadcast Music incorporated ( BMI ) and a dove Award.
The संसार 's प्रिंसिपल धर्मों और spiritual traditions may be classified into a small क्रमांक of major groups, although this is by no means a uniform अभ्यास.
इस theory began in the 18th century with the goal of recognizing the relative स्तर of civility in societies.
Berliners watching a C-54 जमीन at Tempelhof Airport ( 1948 )
The बर्लिन नाकेबंदी ( 24 June 1948 – 12 May 1949 ) was one of the पहला major अंतरराष्ट्रीय crises of the ठंडा युद्ध.
During the multinational occupation of post–World War ii Germany, the Soviet Union blocked the Western allies ' railway, road, and कनाल access to the सेक्टर of बर्लिन अंतर्गत Allied control.
उनके उद्देश्य थी to force the पश्चिमी powers to allow the Soviet zone to start supplying Berlin साथ खाना and fuel, thereby giving the soviets व्यावहारिक control over the संपूर्ण city.
In response, the पश्चिमी allies व्यवस्थित the बर्लिन airlift to carry आपूर्तियाँ to the लोगों in वेस्ट बर्लिन.
aircrews from the संयुक्त States एयर Force, the अंग्रेजों Royal एयर फ़ोर्स, the royal ऑस्ट्रेलियाई Air Force, the royal Canadian एयर Force, the Royal New Zealand Air Force, और the South अफ़्रीकी Air फ़ोर्स उड़ाया over 200,000 flights in एक year, providing up to 4700 टन of daily necessities ऐसे as fuel and food to the Berliners.
by the spring of 1949, the effort थी clearly succeeding and, by April, the airlift थी delivering more cargo than had previously महरूम transported into the city by rail.
The कामयाबी of the Berlin Airlift brought शर्मिंदगी to the Soviets जो had refused to believe it could मेक a अंतर.
The blockade was lifted in may 1949 and resulted in the creation of two separate जर्मनी states.
The Federal Republic of Germany ( West Germany ) और the जर्मनी लोकतांत्रिक Republic ( East जर्मनी ) विभाजित up बर्लिन.
in स्मरण of the airlift, three airports in the पूर्व western zones of the नगर परोसा as the प्राथमिक gateways to Germany for another fifty सालो.
the यूरोपियन sign ; logotype and handwritten.
the euro चिह्न is the करेंसी चिह्न used for the euro, the आधिकारिक currency of the Eurozone in the यूरोपीय संघ ( eu ).
the design was presented to the पब्लिक by the European Commission on 12 December 1996.
the international three-letter कोड ( according to ISO मानक आईएसओ 4217 ) लिये the euro is eur.
In Unicode it is encoded at.
In English, the sign precedes the मान.
In some styleguides, but नहीं others, the euro चिह्न is unspaced.
Mate (, ; sometimes also spelled maté ), also ज्ञात as chimarrão ( ) or cimarrón ( ), is a traditional South American infused पेय, particularly in अर्जेंटीना, Uruguay, पैराग्वे and the southern states of ब्राज़ील और to a lesser degree in दक्षिण of Chile, the Bolivian Chaco, सीरियाई and लेबनान.
it is prepared from steeping dried पत्ते of yerba mate ( llex paraguariensis, known in Portuguese as erva-mate ) in hot water.
mate is परोसा with a मेटल straw इससे a shared खोखला calabash करेले.
The स्ट्रॉ is called a bombilla in some लैटिन अमरीकी देशों, a bomba in Portuguese, और a bombija or, more generally, a masassa ( type of straw ) in अरबी.
The straw is traditionally made of silver.
आधुनिक, commercially available straws हैं typically बना of nickel silver, पुकारा Alpaca ; बेदाग स्टील, or hollow-stemmed cane.
The gourd is known as a mate or a guampa ; while in Brazil, it रै the specific name of cuia, or भी cabaça ( the name लिये Indigenous-influenced calabash gourds in अन्य regions of ब्राज़ील, स्टिल used for सामान्य food and पेय in remote regions ).
भी if the जल is supplied इससे a आधुनिक thermos, the infusion is traditionally नशे from mates or cuias.
As with other brewed herbs, yerba mate leaves are dried, कटा, और ground into a powdery मिश्रण called yerba.
The bombilla acts as both a straw and a sieve.
The submerged end is flared, with small छेद or slots that allow the brewed द्रव in, but block the chunky matter that makes up much of the मिश्रण.
a modern bombilla डिज़ाइन uses a सीधा tube with holes, or वसन्त sleeve to act as a sieve.
`` Tea-bag '' type infusions of mate ( mate cocido ) have महरूम on the market in अर्जेंटीना, Paraguay और Uruguay लिये many years under such trade names as `` Taragüí Vitality '' in Argentina, `` pajarito '' and `` kurupí '' in Paraguay, and in ब्राज़ील अंतर्गत the नाम `` Mate leão ''.
This is considered a completely different drink.
It is never नशे from cuias or called chimarrão, nor is it associated साथ the gaucho/gaúcho संस्कृति.
The ऑटोमोटिव industry is a term that covers a चौड़ी range of companies और organisations शामिल in the design, विकास, manufacture, marketing, and selling of मोटर वाहनों, towed vehicles, मोटरसाइकिल and mopeds.
it is one of the संसार 's most महत्वपूर्ण आर्थिक sectors by आय.
The term automotive industry usually करता नहीं include उद्योग समर्पित to the maintenance of automobiles following डिलीवरी to the end-user, such as repair shops and motor fuel filling stations.
The पद automotive थी created इससे Greek autos ( self ), और Latin motivus ( of गति ) to represent any form of self-powered गाडी.
इस पद थी proposed by SAE सदस्य एल्मर Sperry.
David माइकल `` डेव '' Bautista, Jr. ( born January 18, 1969 ), is an American mixed martial artist, bodybuilder, actor, and former पेशेवर wrestler best known लिये his time in World Wrestling entertainment competing under the ring name Batista.
in WWE, he became a six-time world चैंपियन, winning the संसार Heavyweight Championship four times, and the डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई Championship दो टाइम्स.
He is the longest-reigning World हेवीवेट Champion in डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई इतिहास.
in जोड to these championships, Batista has जीती the संसार Tag Team Championship three times ( twice with ric Flair and once साथ जॉन Cena ) और the WWE Tag Team Championship once ( with Rey Mysterio ).
बतिस्ता was भी the विजेता of the 2005 royal Rumble match और went on to शीर्षक WrestleMania 21, एक of the शीर्ष पाँच highest-grossing pay-per-view events in pro wrestling history.
बाद trying out at World Championship Wrestling 's Power संयंत्र, Batista हस्ताक्षरित a contract साथ the WWF in 2000 और was भेजा to इसके developmental territory, Ohio Valley कुश्ती ( ovw ), जहाँ he won the OVW Heavyweight चैंपियनशिप.
In August 2012, Bautista हस्ताक्षरित a contract साथ क्लासिक entertainment & Sports to fight in mixed martial कला.
He जीती his mma debut on अक्तूबर 6, 2012, defeating विंस lucero via TKO in the first गोलाकार.
Henry T. Thomas Sampson, Jr. ( born in Jackson, Mississippi in 1934 ) is an African-American inventor.
he ग्रैजुएट from ऊँची school in 1951 इससे Lanier High School in Jackson, Mississippi.
he then attended Morehouse College for a couple of years पहले transferring to purdue विश्वविद्यालयों जहाँ he became a सदस्य of the Omega psi फाई fraternity.
he प्राप्त a Bachelor 's degree in science from purdue विश्वविद्यालयों in 1956.
he graduated with an MS degree in अभियान्त्रिकी from the विश्वविद्यालयों of California, Los एंजिल्स in 1961.
Sampson भी received his ms in Nuclear अभियान्त्रिकी इससे the University of Illinois urbana-champaign in 1965, and उसके phd in 1967.
He is the first African अमरीकी to earn a Ph.D.in Nuclear अभियान्त्रिकी in the United राज्य.
कुछ of his accomplishments include being a member of the United States Navy between the years 1962 and 1964 and earning an परमाणु उर्जा आयोग सम्मान between 1964 and 1967.
Later he थी awarded the Black चित्र पुरस्कार इससे Aerospace निगम in 1982.
He was awarded the अश्वेतों in अभियान्त्रिकी, Applied विज्ञान पुरस्कार, और prize लिये education, by the लॉस Angeles Council of Black Professional Engineers in 1983.
in जून 2007, Sampson was married to Laura howzell Young in St. Thomas, u.S. Virgin Islands.
young-sampson is a professor in the College of शिक्षा at California State विश्वविद्यालयों सैन bernardino.
Robert Lane Gibbs ( born कूच 29, 1971 ) is a वरिष्ठ अभियान adviser for US President बराक ओबामा.
Previously, he थी the 28th White House दबायें Secretary.
Gibbs was the communications निदेशक लिये then- u.s. सीनेटर ओबामा and उसके 2008 presidential अभियान.
Gibbs, who has worked with ओबामा since 2004, was press secretary of जॉन Kerry 's 2004 अध्यक्षीय campaign and has previously specialized in सीनेट अभियान, having परोसा as communications director for the लोकतांत्रिक senatorial अभियान Committee और for four व्यक्तिगत सीनेट campaigns, including those of ओबामा in 2004 and फ्रिट्ज़ Hollings in 1998.
Gibbs थी also the दबायें सचिव of Representative bob etheridge.
on November 22, 2008, Gibbs was announced as the press सचिव of the ओबामा administration.
He assumed the भूमिका of press secretary on January 20, 2009, and gave his पहला official drug on जनवरी 22.
On जनवरी 5, 2011, Gibbs घोषित that he would leave the White House to become an बाहर adviser to the administration.
He left on फ़रवरी 11, 2011.
On February 12, 2013, it was announced that Gibbs had been नियुक्त as a contributor for cable-news channel MSNBC.
His first appearance was on the वही night prior to the 2013 राज्य Of The संघ Address.
Armando pérez ( born जनवरी 15, 1981 ), better known by his stage नाम pitbull, is an अमरीकी rapper, songwriter, and record निर्माता.
His पहला recorded performance थी from the Lil Jon एल्बम Kings of Crunk in 2002.
In 2004, he released his debut एल्बम titled M.I.A.M.I. ( छोटी for Money Is A प्रमुख Issue ) अंतर्गत tvt रिकॉर्ड.
Since तब, he has released three other एल्बम under the label : El Mariel in 2006, the Boatlift in 2007, and Planet Pit in 2011.
He released Rebelution in 2009, जिससे शामिल singles `` i जान You want Me ( Calle Ocho ) `` और `` krazy ``.
The latter peaked at no. 30 on the hot 100 और No. 11 on the hot रैप Tracks चार्ट while `` I जान You Want Me '' peaked at No. 2 on the hot 100 and peaked within the शीर्ष टेन धब्बे of चार्ट in the uk, Canada, Italy, और the Netherlands.
the song reached No. 1 in फ़्रांस and the यूरोपीय hot 100 on the week ending August 29, 2009 according to Billboard magazine.
he later signed साथ Polo Grounds म्यूज़िक through सोनी Music और created उसके own लेबल Mr. 305 inc.
another सिंगल इससे Rebelution थी `` होटल रूम Service ``, जिससे peaked at no. 8 on the hot 100.
Rebelution went on to sell over 7.5 million विश्वव्यापी डिजिटल singles and एल्बम संयुक्त.
Nevertheless, he dropped a तोड़ called `` दे me Everything '' जिससे पहुँचे # 1 worldwide, और प्रदर्शित artists Ne-yo, Nayer, और Afrojack.
He रै भी performed as a featured artist in the remixes of many other hit songs, like tik Tok, Scream & Shout, lo Hecho Esta Hecho, ख़राब, Papi, Diamonds, How कम, tonight ( i 'm Lovin ' You ), वीडियो Phone, Over To You Now और bumpy Ride.
pérez is भी the host of उसके own Spanish-language कार्यक्रम on the केबल channel mun2 titled la Esquina ( Spanish for The कोने ).
In 2005 Pérez और rapper Sean 'diddy ' Combs co-founded Bad Boy लातीनी, a subsidiary of Combs ' Bad Boy रिकॉर्ड लेबल.
it primarily focuses on Latin हिप हॉप, Latin आत्मा, Latin pop और अन्य तीव्र music, और रै offices in नई York and Miami, Florida.
साथ with co-founding it, pérez फिलहाल heads the A & r division of the label.
Pérez has become a product endorser, representing alongside ड्रेक, Rihanna, and Trey songz the “So Kodak” campaign for the Kodak brand and embarking on a साझेदारी साथ the soft drink giant Dr pepper as part of the अभियान “ विदा 23 ” for which he recorded the song specifically प्रदर्शित on उसके album Armando.
pitbull also announced he रै become the spokesperson for voli Vodka, in जिससे he holds a majority equity हिस्सेदारी, और Budweiser has चुनी Pitbull to प्रचार its Bud Light line of beer.
the commercials currently हाइलाइट pitbull dancing and gyrating on stage holding up a bottle of कली लाइट.
Pitbull रै also purchased an equity हिस्सेदारी in Miami Subs पिज़्ज़ा and Grill.
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` सब Hallows ' Evening `` ), भी known as All hallows ' Eve, is a yearly celebration observed in a क्रमांक of देशों on October 31, the eve of the Western Christian feast of All Hallows ( or सब Saints ) and the दिन initiating the triduum of hallowmas.
According to अनेक scholars, All hallows ' संध्या is a Christianised feast originally influenced by western यूरोपीय कटाई festivals, and त्यौहार of the dead with संभावित pagan roots, particularly the Celtic Samhain.
Other scholars maintain that it originated independently of samhain और has solely ईसाई जड़ें.
Typical त्यौहार हैलोवीन activities शामिल trick-or-treating ( भी ज्ञात as `` guising `` ), उपस्थित वेशभूषा parties, carving pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, apple bobbing, visiting haunted आकर्षण, playing pranks, telling scary stories, और watching हॉरर films.
Freedom of वाक is the राजनैतिक right to communicate one 's opinions and विचार using one 's body and प्रॉपर्टी to anyone जो is willing to receive them.
the पद freedom of अभिव्यक्ति is sometimes used synonymously, लकिन includes any act of seeking, receiving and imparting information or विचार, regardless of the medium used.
in अभ्यास, the right to freedom of वाक is not absolute in any country और the सही is commonly subject to सीमाएं, as with मानहानि, slander, obscenity, sedition ( including, for example inciting जातीय hatred ), copyright उल्लंघन, revelation of information कि is classified or वरना.
the सही to freedom of expression is recognized as a human right अंतर्गत आलेख 19 of the Universal Declaration of इंसान अधिकारों and recognized in अंतरराष्ट्रीय इंसान rights विधि in the International Covenant on सिविल and राजनैतिक अधिकारों ( ICCPR ).
आलेख 19 of the ICCPR states कि `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference '' and `` everyone shall have the right to freedom of अभिव्यक्ति ; इस right shall शामिल स्वतंत्रता to seek, प्राप्त and impart सूचना and ideas of all kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in लिखने or in छपाई, in the form of art, or through any other media of his चुनाव ''.
Article 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these rights carries `` खास कर्तव्य और responsibilities `` और may `` therefore be subject to certain restrictions '' when जरुरी `` [ f ] or respect of the rights or प्रतिष्ठा of अन्य '' or `` [ f ] or the सुरक्षा of national security or of पब्लिक order ( अनुक्रम public ), or of public स्वास्थ्य or morals ''.
Freedom of वाक may be legally curtailed in some religious legal systems and in धर्मनिरपेक्ष jurisdictions जहाँ it is found to कारण धार्मिक offense, ऐसे as the British जातिगत and धार्मिक Hatred Act 2006.
सिडनी Harbour from the एयर, showing the Opera House, the CBD, गोलाकार quay, the Bridge, the Parramatta River, North Sydney and kirribilli in the अग्रभूमि
the सिडनी Harbour Bridge is a स्टील through मेहराब bridge across Sydney Harbour that carries rail, vehicular, bicycle and pedestrian traffic between the सिडनी central business district ( CBD ) और the North Shore.
the dramatic view of the सेतु, the harbour, and the nearby Sydney Opera House is an iconic चित्र of Sydney, नई South Wales, and Australia.
The सेतु is nicknamed `` The coathanger '' because of इसके arch-based design.
Under the दिशानिर्देश of Dr j.j.c. bradfield of the nsw विभाग of पब्लिक works, the सेतु थी designed and built by British firm dorman Long and Co Ltd of middlesbrough and खोली in 1932.
The bridge 's design थी influenced by the Hell Gate Bridge in New York.
it was the संसार 's widest long-span bridge, at 48.8 meters ( 160 feet ) चौड़ी, जबतक construction of the नई बंदरगाहों Mann सेतु in वैंकूवर.
It is also the fifth longest spanning-arch bridge in the world, and it is the tallest steel मेहराब सेतु, measuring इससे top to जल level.
जबतक 1967 the harbour Bridge थी Sydney 's tallest structure.
The Hawaii हॉटस्पॉट is a volcanic hotspot स्तिथ निकट the namesake Hawaiian Islands, in the उत्तरी Pacific Ocean.
One of the most well-known and heavily studied हॉटस्पॉट in the world, the Hawaii plume is responsible लिये the सृष्टि of the Hawaiian – सम्राट seamount chain, an over 5,800 kilometres ( 3,600 mi ) long chain of ज्वालामुखी, four of which are active, दो of which हैं dormant, and अधिक than 123 of which हैं extinct, many having since been ground beneath the लहरें by erosion as seamounts and atolls.
The chain extends from south of the द्वीप of हवाई to the edge of the Aleutian Trench, near the eastern किनारे of Russia.
जबकि सबसे volcanoes are निर्मित by geological activity at tectonic plate boundaries, the Hawaii hotspot is located दूर इससे nearby थाली boundaries ; the classic हॉटस्पॉट theory, first proposed in 1963 by John tuzo Wilson, proposes that a single, फिक्स्ड mantle plume builds volcanoes that तब, काटें off from उनके सोर्स by the movement of the प्रशांत Plate, become increasingly निष्क्रिय और आखिरकार इरोड नीचे समुद्र level over millions of सालो.
According to इस theory, the nearly 60° bend separating the सम्राट and हवाई खण्ड of the कड़ी was caused by a sudden shift in the गति of the Pacific थाली.
in 2003, fresh investigations of this irregularity led to the प्रस्ताव of a mobile hotspot theory, suggesting कि hotspots are मोबाईल, not fixed, और कि the 47 million year old bend थी caused by a shift in the hotspot 's गति बल्कि than the plate 's.
Ancient Hawaiians were the पहला to recognize the increasing age and weathered state of the volcanoes to the उत्तर as they progressed on fishing expeditions साथ the islands.
the volatile state of the Hawaiian volcanoes और उनके constant battle with the sea was a major तत्व in Hawaiian mythology, embodied in pele, the देवता of volcanoes.
After the arrival of europeans on the island, in 1880-1881 James Dwight Dana निर्देशित the first formal geological study of the hotspot 's volcanics, confirming the संबंध long observed by the natives.
1912 marked the founding of the हवाई Volcano वेधशाला by volcanologist थामस Jaggar, initiating निरन्तर scientific अवलोकन of the islands.
In the 1970s, a mapping project थी initiated to लाभ more information परिचय the जटिल भूविज्ञान of Hawaii 's seafloor.
The hotspot has चूंकि been tomographically imaged, प्रर्दशित it to be wide और up to गहन, and ओलीवाइन and गार्नेट -आधारd अध्ययन have दिखाया its मैग्मा chamber is approximately.
In its at least 85 लाख सालो of activity the hotspot has उत्पादित an अनुमानित of rock.
the chain 's rate of बहाव रै slowly increased over समय, causing the राशि of time each individual ज्वालामुखी is क्रियाशील to decrease, from 18 लाख सालो लिये the 76 million साल old Detroit Seamount, to just अंतर्गत 900,000 लिये the एक million year-old Kohala ; on the other hand, eruptive volume has increased इससे per year to about.
Overall, this रै caused a trend towards अधिक active लकिन quickly-silenced, closely spaced volcanoes—whereas ज्वालामुखी on the निकट side of the hotspot overlap each other ( forming such superstructures as Hawaii द्वीप and the ancient मावी नुई ), the oldest of the Emperor seamounts हैं spaced as दूर as apart.
दाउद Palmer, director of the show, announced that the ऋतु 4 finale is the series finale because Nickelodeon canceled the show.
Petitions are being हस्ताक्षरित to bring the दिखाएँ लिये a fifth season.
the show airs on treehouse TV कनाडा and उपनाम Jr. ( formerly noggin ).
Eddie and the Cruisers is a 1983 American film directed by Martin डेविडसन साथ the पटकथा written by the director और Arlene डेविडसन, आधारित on the novel by P. F. Kluge.
It थी marketed with the tagline `` विद्रोही.
Rocker.
Lover.
आइडल.
vanished. ''
osteonecrosis of the jaw ( ONJ ) is a severe bone disease कि affects the maxilla और the mandible.
Various forms of onj have महरूम described over the last 160 years, and a number of causes have महरूम सुझाया in the literature.
Osteonecrosis of the जबड़े associated with bisphosphonate therapy, required by कुछ cancer treatment regimens, रै been identified and defined as a pathological entity चूंकि 2003.
The संभावित risk from lower मौखिक doses of bisphosphonates, taken by patients to prevent or दावत osteoporosis, remains अनिश्चित.
Various treatment विकल्प have महरूम छान, however severe cases of ONJ स्टिल require surgical हटाना of the प्रभावित bone.
A thorough इतिहास and assessement of pre-existing systemic problems and संभावित sites of dental संक्रमण are जरूरी to help prevent the condition, विशेषकर if bisphosphonate therapy is माना.
The Boston Red sox हैं a professional बेसबॉल टोली based in बोस्टन, Massachusetts, और a member of Major लीग बेसबॉल 's American लीग पूर्वी प्रभाग.
Founded in as one of the अमरीकी League 's eight charter franchises, the रेड Sox 's घर ballpark has been fenway Park since.
the `` Red sox '' नाम थी चुनी by the टोली owner, जॉन I. Taylor, around, following previous Boston टीमों that था been ज्ञात as the `` रेड stockings ``.
They have निभाई in 11 World Series, winning 7.
Boston was a dominant टोली in the new लीग, defeating the Pittsburgh pirates in the first World Series in and winning चार more championships by.
However, they तब went into एक of the longest चैंपियनशिप droughts in बेसबॉल history, called by some the `` Curse of the Bambino `` after its alleged शुरूआत with the Red Sox 's sale of Babe Ruth to the प्रतिद्वंद्वी Yankees two years after their world चैंपियनशिप in 1918, an 86-year wait before the team 's छठे World Championship in.
However, the टोली 's history during that काल was hardly one of futility, लकिन was rather punctuated साथ कुछ of the सबसे memorable पल in संसार श्रेणी इतिहास, सहित Enos वध 's `` mad डैश `` in, the `` Impossible सपना `` of, कार्लटन फिस्क 's घर चलाएं in, और Bill buckner 's गलती in.
Red Sox history has also been marked by the टोली 's तीव्र rivalry with the New यॉर्क Yankees, arguably the fiercest और most historic in North American professional खेल.
the Boston रेड sox are owned by Fenway Sports समूह, who भी अपना Liverpool Football क्लबों of the प्रीमियर लीग in England.
The Red sox are consistently एक of the top एमएलबी teams in average road attendance, while the small capacity of Fenway Park रोकता them इससे leading in overall attendance.
इससे May 15, 2003 to April 10, 2013, the Red sox बेची out प्रत्येक घर game-a total of 820 games ( 794 regular ऋतु ) for a major professional sports record that lasted almost a दशक.
Mince pie filled with mincemeat
Mincemeat is a मिश्रण of कटा dried fruit, distilled आत्माओं और मसाले, and sometimes बीफ suet, beef, or venison.
originally, mincemeat सदा contained मांस.
अनेक आधुनिक व्यंजनों contain beef suet, हालांकि सब्ज़ी shortening is sometimes used in इसके place.
विसंगतियाँ of mincemeat are मिला in Australia, ब्रिटनी, कनाडा, northern यूरोपीय, Ireland, दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी, the संयुक्त Kingdom और the United States.
In some countries the term mincemeat refers to minced or मैदान मांस.
Diana, Princess of Wales ( Diana frances ; née Spencer ; 1 July 1961 – 31 August 1997 ) थी the first wife of चार्ल्स, Prince of वेल्स, the ज्येष्ठ बेटे and heir apparent of महारानी एलिज़ाबेथ ii.
वो was well ज्ञात लिये her fund-raising work for अंतरराष्ट्रीय charities and as an eminent celebrity of the late 20th century.
Her विवाह to the Prince of Wales on 29 July 1981 was held at st Paul 's गिरजाघर and seen by a वैश्विक टेलीविज़न audience of over 750 लाख.
जबकि शादीशुदा वो bore the शीर्षक राजकुमारी of वेल्स, Duchess of कॉर्नवॉल, Duchess of rothesay, Countess of Chester and Baroness of Renfrew.
The marriage produced two बेटे, the princes विलियम और हैरी, जो became दूसरी and third in लकीर to the British throne.
Diana was born into an aristocratic English परिवार with royal ancestry.
She was the fourth child of John Spencer, 8th Earl Spencer और उसके wife frances, बेटी of मौरिस रोश, 4th Baron Fermoy.
She became a पब्लिक figure साथ the announcement of उसके engagement.
She also प्राप्त recognition for उसके दान कार्य और लिये her support of the International Campaign to बैन landmines.
इससे 1989, she was the president of the Great Ormond Street हॉस्पिटल for children, in addition to dozens of अन्य धर्मार्थ.
Diana remained the object of worldwide मीडिया scrutiny दौरान और बाद her marriage, जिससे ended in तलाक on 28 अगस्त 1996.
Media attention and पब्लिक mourning were considerable following her मौत in a car क्रैश in पेरिस on 31 August 1997.
Argentina, officially the अर्जेंटाइन गणतंत्र ( ), is the दूसरी largest country in दोनो दक्षिण अमेरिका और the Latin अमेरिका प्रदेश.
The देश is a federation of 23 provinces और the autonomous नगर of buenos आयर्स, इसके पूंजी and largest नगर.
It is the eighth -largest देश in the संसार by land area और the largest among spanish-speaking राष्ट्र by भौगोलिक area of 2,780,400 km2 and is the चौथी by population, साथ over 41 लाख people.
अर्जेंटीना is a founding member of the United Nations, mercosur, the Union of दक्षिण American Nations, the Organization of Ibero-American राज्य, the World Bank समूह and the संसार Trade Organization, और is one of the G-15 and g-20 major economies.
Argentina is located in दक्षिण अमेरिका, bordered by Chile to the west and दक्षिण, Bolivia और Paraguay to the north and ब्राज़ील और Uruguay to the northeast.
अर्जेंटीना claims प्रभुता over भाग of Antarctica, the Falkland आइलैंड्स ( ) and South जॉर्जिया and the South Sandwich Islands.
Argentina is the successor state of the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata, an विदेशी उपनिवेश of the स्पेनी साम्राज्य.
Argentina declared independence during the अर्जेंटाइन युद्ध of स्वतंत्रता, which was followed by the Argentine सिविल Wars during सबसे of the 19th century.
The देश faced अनेक सैन्य coups and राजनैतिक instability दौरान the 20th सदी, साथ with periodic economic crisis that continue to this दिन.
A पहचाना Southern कोन शक्ति, and middle power, अर्जेंटीना is Latin America 's third-largest अर्थव्यवस्था, with a `` very high '' rating on the Human development index.
Within लैटिन अमेरिका, अर्जेंटीना has the पांचवां highest nominal GDP प्रति capita और the highest in खरीदना power terms.
the legatum Institute have argued कि the देश has a `` न्यास लिये future विकास due to इसके market आकार, स्तर of विदेशी direct investment, and प्रतिशत of high-tech निर्यात as share of कुल manufactured goods '', and it is classed by investors as middle emerging economy.
अर्जेंटीना is the Latin American country with the सबसे Nobel Prizes, for a total of पाँच, सब प्राप्त during the second half of the बीसवीं सदी.
The देश has three Nobel prizes in science and दो of peace.
the most important aspects of science और technology in Argentina हैं चिंतित with medicine, nuclear भौतिकी, biotechnology, nanotechnology, space और rocket technology and several fields related to the country 's Main आर्थिक Activities.
The देश also रै the mega प्रदर्शनी center of विज्ञान, technology, industry and art that are Latin अमेरिका 's largest.
Hickory is a city in Catawba काउंटी, with भाग भी in बुर्के County और काल्डवेल County.
The नगर 's 2010 estimated population is 40,010.
Hickory is the principal city in the Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton MSA, in which the population at the 2010 Census was 365,497.
polyethylene terephthalate ( sometimes written poly ( एथिलीन terephthalate ) ), commonly abbreviated PET, पीट, or the obsolete PETP or pet-p, is a thermoplastic polymer राल of the polyester family and is used in synthetic मछली ; पेय, food और other liquid containers ; thermoforming applications ; और engineering resins often in संयोजन with glass fiber.
the term polyethylene terephthalate is a source of confusion because this substance, PET, does नहीं contain polyethylene.
Thus, the alternate रूप, poly ( एथिलीन terephthalate ), is often used in scholarly जर्नल्स for the sake of accuracy and clarity.
Depending on इसके processing and thermal history, polyethylene terephthalate may मौजूद both as an amorphous ( पारदर्शी ) और as a semi-crystalline पॉलिमर.
The semicrystalline सामग्री might appear transparent ( particle आकार < 500 nm ) or अपारदर्शी और श्वेत ( कण size up to a few microns ) depending on इसके क्रिस्टल structure and particle size.
Its monomer ( bis-β-hydroxyterephthalate ) can be synthesized by the esterification reaction between terephthalic एसिड and ethylene glycol साथ water as a byproduct, or by transesterification प्रतिक्रिया between एथिलीन ग्लाइकोल and dimethyl terephthalate साथ methanol as a byproduct.
Polymerization is through a polycondensation प्रतिक्रिया of the monomers ( किया immediately बाद esterification/transesterification ) with water as the byproduct.
The majority of the world 's PET production is for सिंथेटिक fibers ( in excess of 60 % ), साथ bottle उत्पादन हिसाब लिये around 30 % of global demand.
in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of वस्त्र applications, पालतु is referred to by its common name, `` पॉलिएस्टर, '' whereas the acronym `` PET '' is generally प्रयुक्त in relation to packaging.
Polyester makes up about 18 % of world polymer उत्पादन और is the third-most-produced पॉलिमर ; polyethylene ( pe ) और polypropylene ( PP ) हैं first and second, क्रमशः.
PET consists of polymerized इकाई of the monomer ethylene terephthalate, साथ repeating C10H8O4 units.
PET is commonly recycled, and has the क्रमांक `` 1 '' as इसके recycling symbol.
Louisiana थी admitted to the संघ on अप्रैल 30, 1812, and elects senators to Classes 2 and Class 3.
Its current senators are डेमोक्रेट मरियम Landrieu and Republican David vitter.
Black pudding, रक्त खीर or रक्त sausage is a type of सॉसेज made by कुकिंग blood or सूखी blood with a फिलर जबतक it is thick enough to congeal जब cooled.
The dish exists in various संस्कृतियों from Asia to Europe and the Americas.
Pig, cattle, शीप, बतख, and बकरी रक्त can be प्रयुक्त depending on different countries.
In यूरोपीय and the Americas, typical fillers include मांस, मोटे, suet, bread, cornmeal, sweet potato, प्याज, chestnuts, barley, and oatmeal.
In Spain, पुर्तगाल and Asia, potato is प्रायः replaced by rice.
शेयरधारक may refer to:
Stakeholder ( corporate ), a person, समूह, organization, सदस्य or प्रणाली who affects or can be affected by an organization 's actions
Stakeholder, an entity कि can be affected by the परिणाम of कि in which वे हैं said to be हितधारकों, i.e., कि in which वे have a हिस्सेदारी.
प्रोजेक्ट शेयरधारक, a person, समूह or संगठन साथ an ब्याज in a प्रोजेक्ट
Stakeholder theory, a सिद्धान्त कि identifies and models the groups जिससे are हितधारकों of a corporation or प्रोजेक्ट
शेयरधारक analysis, the प्रक्रम of identifying those affected by a प्रोजेक्ट or event
शेयरधारक ( law ), a third party who temporarily holds money or property जबकि its owner is still होने determined
जोकर Smight ( March 9, 1925 - सितंबर 1, 2003 ) was an American theatre and फिल्मी निदेशक.
Smight थी born in मिनियापोलिस, मिनेसोटा और गई to school with भविष्य कर्ता Peter क़ब्रों.
His film credits शामिल the Traveling Executioner, खरगोश, Run, Loving युगल, Midway, Harper, विमानक्षेत्र 1975, फटकार alley and the Emmy Award -winning Eddie, as well as many एपीसोड of टेलीविज़न series such as The Twilight मण्डल और The अल्फ्रेड Hitchcock घंटा.
He भी directed the 1960 Broadway play The 49th cousin और रचित the music for the फिल्मी adaption of फेंकें of थंडर सुन My Cry.
Smight died इससे कर्कट in लॉस Angeles, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
Dmitri Ivanovich mendeleev ( ; 8 फ़रवरी 1834 – 2 February 1907 o.s. 27 January 1834 – 20 January 1907 ) थी a रूसी chemist और आविष्कारक.
He प्रतिपादित the Periodic विधि, created उसके own संस्करण of the periodic table of elements, and प्रयुक्त it to correct the properties of some already discovered तत्व और भी to predict the properties of elements yet to be खोजा !
Modesto ( स्पेनी लिये `` modest '' ), officially the City of Modesto, is the county सीट and largest नगर of Stanislaus County, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, United राज्य.
With a जनसांख्यिकी of लगभग 201,165 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, modesto ranks as the 18th largest city in the राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
The Modesto Census काउंटी Division, जिससे शामिल the cities of Ceres और Riverbank, has a population of 312,842 as of 2010.
modesto is located in the सेंट्रल valley क्षेत्रफल of उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया, 90 miles उत्तर of Fresno, 92 miles east of San Francisco, 68 miles south of the state capital of Sacramento, 66 miles west of Yosemite National Park, और 24 मील south of Stockton.
Modesto, a 29-time पेड़ City USA honoree, is surrounded by समृद्ध farmland, lending to a ranking लिये the काउंटी as 6th among सब California counties in फार्म production.
Led by मिल्क, almonds, मुर्गियों, अखरोट, और मकई silage, the county grossed nearly $ 3.1 billion in agricultural production in 2011.
modesto was immortalized in the 1973 George लुकास film अमरीकी graffiti.
the award जीतना film captured the spirit of `` cruising '' and friendship on 10th और 11th Streets in 1962 and led to the पुनरुद्धार of 1950 's nostalgia कि शामिल the tv show Happy Days and the other spin-offs.
Ron Howard, हैरिसन Ford and Richard dreyfuss स्ट्रक्चर in the film.
The soundtrack थी a huge success.
निदेशक जार्ज Lucas is a native of Modesto, graduating from Downey High School in 1962.
the gallup-healthways Well-Being अनुक्रमणिका for 2011, जिससे साक्षात्कार 1,000 भागीदार रोज़ and asks individuals to assess उनके jobs, finances, शारीरिक health, emotional राज्य of दिमाग and communities, ranked modesto 126 out of the 190 cities surveyed.
in December 2009, Forbes ranked modesto 48th out of 100 among `` बेहतरीन bang-for-the-buck Cities ''.
in this ranking, Modesto क्रमित 8th in housing affordability and सफर time but also ranked 86th in job भविष्यवाणी विकास and 99th in foreclosures.
स्वतंत्रता Day, commonly known as the चौथी of July, is a संघीय holiday in the United राज्य commemorating the adoption of the Declaration of स्वतंत्रता on जुलाई 4, 1776, declaring स्वतंत्रता from the किंगडम of ग्रेट Britain.
Independence दिन is commonly associated साथ आतिशबाजी, parades, barbecues, carnivals, fairs, picnics, कॉन्सर्ट, बेसबॉल games, family reunions, and political भाषणों and ceremonies, in जोड to विभिन्न other public and निजी events celebrating the history, government, and traditions of the संयुक्त States.
स्वतंत्रता दिन is the नेशनल day of the United States.
a gender प्रतीक denotes the sex of an organism or characterizes an एजेंट by लिंग.
The two standard लिंग symbols denoting male ♂ और female ♀ हैं निकला from astrological symbols, denoting the शास्त्रीय planets Mars and Venus, क्रमशः.
ये प्रतीकों have been in use चूंकि the Renaissance also denoting तत्व in alchemy, specifically the metals iron and copper.
वे यहूद first प्रयुक्त to denote the effective लिंग of plants ( i.e. sex of individual in a दिए crossbreed, चूंकि most पौधे are hermaphroditic ) by Carolus लीनियस in 1751.
A leasehold estate is an ownership of a अस्थाई right to थाम जमीन or property in जिससे a lessee or a tenant holds rights of रियल प्रॉपर्टी by some रूप of शीर्षक from a lessor or landlord.
हालांकि a tenant does थाम rights to real प्रॉपर्टी, a leasehold एस्टेट is typically माना personal property.
Leasehold is a रूप of जमीन कार्यकाल or प्रॉपर्टी कार्यकाल जहाँ one party buys the सही to occupy जमीन or a building लिये a given length of समय.
as lease is a legal एस्टेट, leasehold एस्टेट can be bought and sold on the open market.
A leasehold यूँ differs from a freehold or शुल्क simple जहाँ the ownership of a प्रॉपर्टी is खरीदा outright and thereafter आयोजित for an अनिर्धार्य length of time, और भी differs from a tenancy where a प्रॉपर्टी is let ( rented ) on a periodic आधार ऐसे as साप्ताहिक or monthly.
Until the समाप्त of the पट्टे period ( प्रायः measured in दशकों or centuries ; a 99 साल lease is काफी आम ) the leaseholder रै the सही to remain in occupation as an assured किरायेदार paying an agreed rent to the owner.
Terms of the agreement are contained in a पट्टे, which has elements of अनुबंध और प्रॉपर्टी विधि intertwined.
the term estate for years may occasionally be प्रयुक्त.
इस refers to a leasehold एस्टेट for any specific period of time ( the word `` years '' is भ्रामक ).
An एस्टेट लिये years is not automatically नवीनीकृत.
Colloquially, `` lease '' और `` पट्टे `` हैं प्रायः a formalization of a longer, विशिष्ट काल as compared with a `` rental '' that created a tenancy at will, terminable or renewable at the end of a short काल.
Olivia ( भी known as Welcome to the World of the Pig ओलिविया ) is a British-American children 's एनिमेटेड television series उत्पादित by media कम्पनी Chorion और based on Ian Falconer 's books.
it is seen on उपनाम jr. in the us, Milkshake !
, Nick jr. in the UK और आयरलैंड, और डिज़्नी Junior in लैटिन America और ब्राज़ील, Treehouse TV in कनाडा.
the show रै won a चांदी Parents ' चुनाव पुरस्कार for its positive स्टोरी लाइनों और वर्ण.
स्थान of Panama between Pacific ( bottom ) और caribbean ( top ), with कनाल at top center
the Panama कनाल ( ) is a ship कनाल in Panama कि connects the Atlantic समंदर ( via the caribbean समुद्र ) to the प्रशांत Ocean.
the कनाल cuts across the Isthmus of पनामा and is a कुंजी conduit for international मेरीटाइम व्यापार.
There हैं ताले at प्रत्येक समाप्त to lift जहाजों up to Gatun Lake ( above sea-level ).
gatun Lake थी created to reduce the amount of कार्य required लिये the canal.
The वर्तमान locks हैं चौड़ी.
A तीसरा, wider लेन of locks is being built.
फ़्रांस began work on the canal in 1881, लकिन had to रोकें क्युकी of अभियान्त्रिकी problems and high मृत्यु due to disease.
The संयुक्त राज्य ( US ) later took over the प्रोजेक्ट and took a दशक to complete the कनाल in 1914, enabling ships to avoid the lengthy Cape Horn route around the southernmost tip of South America ( via the ड्रेक ड्योढ़ी ) or to navigate the Strait of Magellan.
One of the largest और most difficult engineering projects ever undertaken, the पनामा Canal shortcut made it संभावित for ships to travel between the Atlantic and Pacific महासागर in half the time previously जरूरी.
the shorter, faster, safer route to the us वेस्ट coast and to राष्ट्र in and along the प्रशांत समंदर अनुमत those places to become more integrated with the world अर्थव्यवस्था.
During this time, ownership of the territory कि is अभी the पनामा Canal थी first कोलम्बियाई, then French, and then American ; the United राज्य completed the construction.
the canal was लिया over in 1999 by the panamanian government, as long planned.
Annual traffic रै risen इससे about 1,000 जहाजों जब the कनाल खोली in 1914, to 14,702 बरतन in 2008, the latter measuring a total of 309.6 लाख Panama canal/universal Measurement प्रणाली ( PC/UMS ) टन.
by 2008, more than 815,000 vessels had passed through the कनाल, अनेक of them much larger than the असली planners could have envisioned ; the largest जहाजों कि can पारगमन the canal today are called Panamax.
The अमरीकी Society of सिविल Engineers has named the Panama कनाल one of the seven wonders of the modern world.
बेंजामिन Franklin ( April 17, 1790 ) was एक of the founding Fathers of the United राज्य.
a noted बहुश्रुत, Franklin थी a अग्रणी author, printer, political theorist, politician, postmaster, वैज्ञानिक, संगीतकार, inventor, satirist, civic activist, statesman, and राजनयिक.
As a वैज्ञानिक, he was a प्रमुख फिगर in the अमरीकी आत्मज्ञान और the इतिहास of physics for उसके discoveries and theories regarding विद्युत.
he invented the lightning rod, bifocals, the फ्रैंकलिन stove, a carriage ओडोमीटर, and the glass 'armonica '.
He facilitated many civic organizations, सहित a आग विभाग और a university.
Franklin earned the title of `` the पहला American '' for उसके early and indefatigable campaigning for colonial unity ; as an author और spokesman in London लिये several colonies, then as the first संयुक्त राज्य Ambassador to France, he exemplified the emerging American nation.
Franklin थी foundational in defining the American ethos as a विवाह of the practical मान of thrift, hard work, शिक्षा, जातियाँ स्पिरिट, self-governing institutions, और विपक्ष to authoritarianism both political and religious, साथ the वैज्ञानिक and सहिष्णु मान of the Enlightenment.
in the words of historian Henry Steele Commager, `` in a फ्रैंकलिन could be मिलाया the virtues of puritanism without its defects, the illumination of the Enlightenment without इसके ऊष्मा. ''
to Walter Isaacson, this makes Franklin `` the सबसे संपन्नता American of his age और the सबसे influential in inventing the type of समाज America would become. ''
Franklin, सदा proud of उसके working class roots, became a कामयाब समाचारपत्र एडिटर and printer in Philadelphia, the अग्रणी नगर in the colonies.
he was also partners with William Goddard and जोसेफ Galloway the three of जिसको प्रकाशित the पेन्सिलवेनिया वृत्तान्त, a newspaper कि was known for इसके क्रांतिकारी sentiments and criticisms of the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य in the American colonies.
He became wealthy publishing Poor Richard 's Almanack and The Pennsylvania Gazette.
फ्रैंकलिन gained international renown as a scientist लिये his प्रसिद्ध प्रयोग in electricity and for his many inventions, especially the lightning लाठी.
He निभाई a major role in establishing the विश्वविद्यालयों of Pennsylvania और was निर्वाचित the first अध्यक्ष of the अमरीकी philosophical Society.
Franklin became a national hero in America when he spearheaded the effort to have Parliament repeal the unpopular Stamp Act.
An accomplished राजनयिक, he थी widely admired among the French as American minister to Paris and was a major फिगर in the विकास of धनात्मक Franco-American relations.
For many years he was the British postmaster for the colonies, जिससे enabled him to set up the पहला national communications संजाल.
He was active in community affairs, colonial और state राजनीती, as खूब as नेशनल and अंतरराष्ट्रीय affairs.
इससे 1785 to 1788, he served as governor of Pennsylvania.
toward the end of his life, he freed उसके स्लेव और became one of the most prominent abolitionists.
His रंगीन life and विरासत of scientific and political achievement, and औकात as एक of America 's most influential Founding Fathers, have seen फ्रैंकलिन honored on coinage and धन ; warships ; the names of many कस्बों, counties, educational संस्थानों, namesakes, और कंपनियाँ ; और more than two centuries after his death, अनगिनत cultural references.
दण्ड Minds is an American police procedural television program that premiered September 22, 2005, on CBS.
the श्रेणी फ़ॉलो a team of profilers इससे the एफबीआई 's Behavioral Analysis ईकाई ( BAU ) आधारित in क्वांटिको, Virginia.
The BAU is part of the एफबीआई National बीच लिये the विश्लेषण of Violent अपराधों.
The show differs इससे अनेक प्रक्रियात्मक dramas by focusing on profiling the criminal, बल्कि than the अपराधों itself.
The show is उत्पादित by The Mark गॉर्डन Company in संघ with सीबीएस Television studios ( originally Paramount Network टेलीविज़न then CBS सर्वोपरि संजाल Television ) और ABC studios ( originally touchstone Television ).
सीबीएस announced in October 2009 कि Legacy इंटरैक्टिव होता develop a video खेल based on the show.
The game होता आवश्यकता players to जाँचें अपराधों दृश्यों for clues to सहायता solve हत्या रहस्यों.
the interactive puzzle game was released in 2012, लकिन did not feature any of the आवाज़ें of the show 's डाल, nor was the cast involved साथ the project.
On March 14, 2012, CBS नवीनीकृत दण्ड minds for an eighth season, which premiered on September 26, 2012.
`` Heart-Shaped बक्सा '' is a सोंग by the अमरीकी grunge बैंड निर्वाण, लिखा by vocalist और guitarist कर्ट कोबेन.
the song was released as the first single इससे the समूह 's third and final studio album, In Utero, in 1993.
It थी एक of two songs इससे the album mixed by Scott litt in order to augment the original production by निर्माता Steve albini.
While Nirvana 's लेबल dgc रिकॉर्ड did not release a physical single लिये sale in the संयुक्त States, `` Heart-Shaped Box '' received much American रेडियो airplay, reaching क्रमांक one on the बिलबोर्ड आधुनिक Rock Tracks chart.
the अंतरराष्ट्रीय release of the single reached क्रमांक पाँच on the uk Singles चार्ट.
the song 's music वीडियो, directed by एंटोन Corbijn, garnered critical plaudits.
the orbital गति of a body, generally a planet, a natural satellite, an artificial satellite, or a multiple star, is the speed at जिससे it orbits around the barycenter of a system, usually around a अधिक massive body.
It can be used to refer to either the औसत कक्षीय गति, the average speed as it completes an orbit, or instantaneous orbital गति, the गति at a particular पाइंट in इसके कक्षा.
the orbital गति at any स्थिति in the orbit can be computed इससे the distance to the central देह at that स्थिति, और the specific orbital उर्जा, which is स्वतंत्र of position : the kinetic उर्जा is the कुल उर्जा ऋण the potential उर्जा.
भूरा राजमहल Interior और अलिंद
Brown राजमहल Hotel is the second-oldest operating hotel in डेनवर, कोलोराडो and is one of the first atrium-style hotel ever निर्मित.
it is now operated by Quorum Hotels और रिसॉर्ट.
it was built in 1892, one साल बाद than the ऑक्सफोर्ड Hotel.
It थी नामित लिये its original owner, Henry C. भूरा, और was designed with इसके odd triangular shape by architect फ़्रैंक Edbrooke.
the hotel is located at 321 17th St, Denver, co between 17th Street, ब्रॉडवे and Tremont Street/Pl in downtown डेनवर behind the गणतंत्र Plaza.
The प्रमुख entrance door is on tremont Street.
DVD-Video is a consumer video format used to स्टोर digital वीडियो on DVD discs, और is फिलहाल the प्रबल consumer video format in एशिया, North America, Europe, and ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
Discs using the dvd-video specification require a DVD drive and an H.262/MPEG-2 भाग 2 डिकोडर ( e.g., a dvd खिलाड़ी, or a कंप्यूटर dvd ड्राइव with a software dvd player ).
वाणिज्यिक DVD फिल्मों हैं encoded using a संयोजन of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 compressed वीडियो and audio of varying formats ( often multi-channel formats as वर्णित below ).
Typically, the आंकड़ा rate for DVD फिल्मों सीमाएँ from 3 Mbit/s to 9.5 Mbit/s, and the bit rate is प्रायः adaptive.
it थी first available लिये खुदरा around 1997.
The DVD-Video specification थी created by DVD Forum and can be प्राप्त from dvd Format/Logo Licensing Corporation for a fee of $ 5,000.
The specification is not सरेआम available, because प्रत्येक subscriber must sign a non-disclosure अनुबंध.
Certain information in the DVD Book is मालिकाना and गोपनीय.
the nautical mile ( symbol M, nm or nmi ) is a ईकाई of लंबाई that is about एक मिनट of arc of latitude measured along any meridian, or about one minute of चाप of longitude at the equator.
By अंतरराष्ट्रीय अनुबंध it has been नियत at 1,852 metres exactly ( about 6,076 feet ).
It is a non- si ईकाई ( although accepted लिये उपयोग in the International System of Units by the BIPM ) used विशेषकर by navigators in the शिपिंग and विमानन उद्योग, and also in polar खोजी.
It is commonly used in अंतरराष्ट्रीय law और treaties, विशेषकर regarding the हद of territorial waters.
it विकसित इससे the समुद्र mile और the सम्बन्धित भौगोलिक मील.
The nautical mile remains in उपयोग by sea और एयर navigators worldwide because of its convenience when working साथ charts.
Most nautical चार्ट उपयोग the Mercator प्रक्षेप whose स्केल varies by परिचय a factor of six from the equator to 80° latitude, so चार्ट covering large क्षेत्रों can not use a सिंगल रैखिक scale.
the nautical mile is nearly equal to a मिनट of अक्षांश on a चार्ट, so a distance measured with a chart divider can be roughly converted to nautical मील using the chart 's अक्षांश स्केल.
Shippensburg is a बरो in कम्बरलैंड and Franklin काउंटी in the U.S. राज्य of Pennsylvania.
Settled in 1730, Shippensburg झूठ in the Cumberland घाटी, 41 miles ( 66 km ) west-southwest of Harrisburg, और is part of the Harrisburg– carlisle Metropolitan Statistical क्षेत्रफल.
in 1900, 3,228 people lived there ; in 1910, 3,457 ; और in 1940, 5,244 people lived there.
The population was 5,492 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
shippensburg was incorporated as a बरो on January 21, 1819.
In the पास्ट, वहीँ were furniture factories, engine and pump works, और other industrial works located within the कस्बा.
shippensburg is also the घर of The Beistle Company, the oldest and largest निर्माता of decorations and party goods, जिससे sells इसके distinctive honeycomb पेपर सजावट विश्वव्यापी.
It is also the location of pague और Fegan, the oldest continuously संचालित हार्डवेयर स्टोर in Pennsylvania.
in May 2012, वोल्वो Construction उपकरण began a $ 100 लाख विस्तार project to लाओ its American headquarters to Shippensburg.
Shippensburg is also घर to shippensburg University of Pennsylvania, एक of 14 विश्वविद्यालयों of the पेन्सिलवेनिया राज्य प्रणाली of Higher शिक्षा.
Yearly the last पूरा सप्ताह of जुलाई, the Shippensburg जातियाँ मेला is आयोजित.
Begun in 1958, the fair बिल्स itself as पेन्सिलवेनिया 's largest bi-county मेला.
The मेला शामिल agricultural exhibits, a शिल्प दिखाएँ, खाना vendors, और carnival यात्राएँ amongst अन्य things.
प्रत्येक summer on the last शनिवार of अगस्त, shippensburg holds the मकई Festival, an इवेंट that brings regional artisans and vendors to operate stands downtown.
the शहर is closed to traffic for at तनिक 5 blocks लिये सबसे of the day.
Average उपस्थिति at the पर्व is अनुमानित at 60,000 - 70,000 each year.
Black hairy tongue ( bht, also termed lingua villosa nigra ) refers to a कंडीशन of the जीभ जहाँ the filiform papillae elongate with black or brown discoloration, giving a ब्लैक और hairy appearance.
the रूप may be alarming, but it is a harmless कंडीशन.
Predisposing कारकों include धूम्रपान, xerostomia ( शुष्क मुँह ), नरम आहार, ग़रीब मौखिक hygiene and certain medications.
प्रबन्धन is by improving oral hygiene, especially scraping or brushing the tongue.
the आईईईई 1394 interface is a सीरियल bus इंटरफ़ेस standard for high-speed संचार and isochronous real-time data ट्रांसफ़र.
It was developed in the लेट 1980s और जल्दी 1990s by Apple, who called it FireWire.
the 1394 interface is comparable to USB, and often those two technologies हैं माना together, हालांकि usb रै more market share.
Apple first शामिल FireWire in some of its 1999 मॉडल, and most Apple computers चूंकि the year 2000 have included FireWire पोर्ट, though, as of 2013, nothing परे the 800 संस्करण ( IEEE-1394b ).
The interface is भी known by the brand i.link ( सोनी ), and Lynx ( Texas यंत्र ).
IEEE 1394 replaced समानांतर SCSI in many अनुप्रयोग, क्युकी of lower क्रियान्वयन costs और a सरलीकृत, अधिक अनुकूलनीय cabling system.
The 1394 standard भी defines a backplane interface, हालांकि this is not as widely used.
IEEE 1394 is the High-Definition Audio-Video Network गठबंधन ( HANA ) standard कनेक्शन इंटरफ़ेस लिये a/v ( audio/visual ) घटक communication and control.
firewire is also available in बेतार, रेशा optic, और समाक्षीय versions using the isochronous protocols.
Stephen `` Stevie '' Ray vaughan ( October 3, 1954 – August 27, 1990 ) थी an American guitarist, singer-songwriter, और record producer.
Often referred to by his initials srv, Vaughan is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as a founding सदस्य और leader of Double ट्रबल.
Together with वादक Chris layton and bassist Tommy शैनन, they ignited the blues revival of the 1980s.
साथ a career spanning सात years, Vaughan और दोगुना Trouble consistently sold out concerts जबकि their एल्बम अक्सर went सुनहरा.
He थी born और raised in Dallas, Texas, and for a short period of time जिया in Graham, Texas.
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan, Vaughan started playing the guitar at age seven और formed several bands that occasionally performed in लोकल nightclubs.
At age 17, he dropped आउट of high स्कूल and moved to Austin to further pursue उसके musical career, joining groups such as krackerjack, the nightcrawlers, and the cobras.
in 1977, he formed Triple Threat revue, a band that eventually evolved into दोगुना Trouble and regularly performed around ऑस्टिन.
In 1982, Vaughan और Double Trouble performed at the Montreux Jazz Festival in स्विट्ज़रलैंड, catching the ध्यान of musicians दाउद बोवी और जैक्सन browne.
Bowie पूछा Vaughan to खेल on उसके upcoming स्टुडियो एल्बम Let 's Dance, while Browne offered the band free use of उसके निजी स्टुडियो in लॉस एंजिल्स to record an album.
In कूच 1983, vaughan and Double Trouble were signed to एपिक रिकॉर्ड by दिग्गज record producer जॉन Hammond Sr. and released उनके debut एल्बम, Texas Flood in June of that year.
After successful touring, the group released the albums, could n't Stand the मौसम ( 1984 ) और Soul to आत्मा ( 1985 ), the latter of which featured new keyboardist रीज़ wynans.
Although his career had progressed successfully, Vaughan checked into a पुनर्वास hospital in Atlanta, Georgia to give up a cocaine and दारू आदत and returned to touring with the बैंड.
In जून 1989, In Step was released and अर्जित उन्हें a Grammy पुरस्कार लिये Best Contemporary Blues Performance.
On August 27, 1990, Vaughan थी मारे in a helicopter क्रैश following a performance in East Troy, विस्कॉन्सिन.
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet intense स्टाइल was derived from a variety of musical जाति.
He थी बहकावे by blues musicians including Albert किंग, फ्रेडी King, Otis फटाफट, and muddy Waters, और चट्टान guitarists ऐसे as जिमि हेंड्रिक्स and Lonnie mack.
उसके गिटार playing reflected the classic blues और pentatonic तराजू.
he has received चौड़ी critical recognition for उसके guitar playing, रैंकिंग at # 6 on Rolling Stones list of `` 100 Greatest Guitarists '' in 2011.
He was मरणोपरांत inducted into the ब्लूज़ Hall of Fame in 2000 and a मेमोरियल statue थी erected in ऑस्टिन 's ऑडिटोरियम shores park.
Stevie रे Vaughan is widely considered to be one of the महानतम musicians to come from the राज्य of Texas.
GigE redirects here.
For the camera प्रोटोकॉल, see GigE दृष्टि.
In computer networking, gigabit ईथरनेट ( gbe or 1 gige ) is a term describing various technologies for transmitting Ethernet frames at a रेट of a gigabit प्रति दूसरी ( 1,000,000,000 bits प्रति दूसरी ), as पारिभाषित by the आईईईई 802.3-2008 standard.
It came into उपयोग beginning in 1999, धीरे supplanting तेज़ Ethernet in wired local संजाल, जहाँ it performed considerably faster.
the केबल और उपकरण हैं very समान to पिछला standards और were बहुत common and किफायती by 2010.
Half-duplex gigabit कड़ी connected through hubs are allowed by the specification, लकिन full-duplex usage with switches is much अधिक आम.
Intel pro/1000 gt PCI संजाल इंटरफ़ेस कार्ड
The प्रमुख components of a stamp:
1. Image
2. Perforations
3. Denomination
4. Country name
A postage स्टैम्प is a small piece of paper that is purchased and displayed on an item of mail as प्रमाण of payment of postage.
Typically, stamps are बना from खास paper, with a national नामांकन and denomination ( दाम ) on the फेस, and a gum चिपकने on the reverse side.
Postage stamps हैं खरीदा from a postal प्रशासन or other authorized vendor and are प्रयुक्त to अदा लिये the लागत शामिल in चलती mail as well as other business necessities such as insurance और registration.
The stamp’s shape is usually that of a छोटी rectangle of varying proportions, though triangles or अन्य shapes are occasionally used.
The स्टैम्प is affixed to an लिफाफा or अन्य डाक कवर ( i.e., पैकेट, box, mailing बेलन ) कि the ग्राहक बधाइयां to भेजें.
the item is then processed by the postal प्रणाली, where a postmark, sometimes ज्ञात as a cancellation चिह्नित, is usually लागू over the stamp and कवर ; this कार्यविधि marks the stamp as प्रयुक्त, which prevents its reuse.
The postmark indicates the date और पाइंट of origin of the mailing.
the mailed मद is तब delivered to the address that the ग्राहक रै applied to the लिफाफा or cover.
postage stamps have facilitated the डिलीवरी of mail since the 1840s.
Before this time, ink and hand-stamps ( hence the word 'stamp ' ), usually made from लकडी or cork, were प्रायः used to frank the मेल और confirm the payment of postage.
the पहला adhesive postage stamp, commonly referred to as the पैनी Black, was जारी in the United Kingdom in 1840.
The आविष्कार of the स्टैम्प was a भाग of the attempt to reform और improve the डाक system in the United Kingdom of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और आयरलैंड, जिससे in the early 19th century was in disarray and rife with भ्रष्टाचार.
वहीँ are varying accounts of the inventor or inventors of the stamp.
Before the introduction of postage stamps, mail in the uk was सशुल्क for by the प्राप्तकर्ता, a प्रणाली that was संबद्ध with an irresolvable प्रॉब्लम : the costs of delivering mail were नहीं recoverable by the postal service when प्राप्तकर्ता were unable or unwilling to pay लिये delivered वस्तुएं, और senders had no प्रोत्साहन to restrict the क्रमांक, आकार, or वज़न of items भेजा, whether or नहीं they होता ultimately be सशुल्क for.
The postage stamp resolved इस issue in a सरल and elegant manner, साथ the additional benefit of रूम for an तत्व of beauty to be introduced.
बाद सम्बन्धित आविष्कारों include डाक stationery such as prepaid-postage लिफाफे, post cards, lettercards, aerogrammes and wrappers, postage मीटर, and, more recently, specialty boxes and लिफाफे provided free to the customer by the U.S. डाक सेवा लिये priority or express mailing.
The postage stamp afforded convenience लिये दोनो the mailer and postal officials, अधिक efficiently recovered costs लिये the डाक सेवा, और ultimately resulted in a बेहतर, faster postal system.
With the conveniences stamps offered, उनके उपयोग resulted in greatly increased mailings दौरान the 19th and 20th centuries.
Postage stamps दौरान इस era were the most लोकप्रिय way of paying लिये मेल, but by the end of the 20th century यहूद rapidly होने eclipsed by the use of metered postage and bulk mailing by व्यवसायों. )
the वही result साथ आदर to संचार by निजी पार्टियों occurred over the last decade of the 20th सदी और the first decade of the 21st due to घटती cost of long distance टेलीफोन संचार और the development और explosive स्प्रेड of electronic mailing ( `` e-mail '' via the अंतरजाल ) and bill paying प्रणालियों था.
As postage stamps साथ उनके engraved imagery began to appear on a widespread basis, इतिहासकारों और collectors began to take notice.
The study of postage stamps और उनके use is referred to as philately.
स्टैम्प collecting can be both a hobby और a form of historical पढ़ाई और reference, as government-issued postage stamps and उनके mailing systems have always महरूम शामिल with the history of nations.
the University of अलबामा at बर्मिंघम ( UAB ) is a पब्लिक विश्वविद्यालयों in Birmingham in the u.S. राज्य of Alabama.
Developing इससे an extension center स्थापित in 1936, the institution became an autonomous संस्था in 1969 और is आज one of तीन institutions in the विश्वविद्यालयों of Alabama System.
uab offers over 140 कार्यक्रम of पढ़ाई in 12 अकादमिक divisions अग्रणी to bachelor 's, master 's, doctoral, and पेशेवर degrees in the social and behavioral sciences, the liberal कला, business, education, अभियान्त्रिकी, and health-related fields ऐसे as आयुर्विज्ञान, dentistry, optometry, nursing, और public स्वास्थ्य.
the स्कूल is अत्यधिक renowned for इसके चिकित्सा शोध and natural sciences programs.
The UAB Health प्रणाली, एक of the largest academic चिकित्सा centers in the United States, is affiliated साथ the विश्वविद्यालयों.
uab Hospital प्रायोजकों residency programs in various चिकित्सा specialties, सहित आतंरिक medicine, neurology, surgery, radiology, and anesthesiology.
uab Hospital is the only ACS verified स्तर I trauma center in अलबामा, as rated by the American कॉलेज of Surgeons Trauma Program.
uab is the state 's largest employer, साथ more than 18,000 faculty और staff and over 53,000 कार्य at the university और in the स्वास्थ्य system.
an estimated 10 percent of the jobs in the Birmingham-Hoover Metropolitan Area and 1 in 33 jobs in the state of अलबामा हैं directly or indirectly related to UAB.
The university 's overall सालाना economic प्रभाव was अनुमानित to be $ 4.6 billion in 2010.
In the fall of 2012, the विश्वविद्यालयों of अलबामा at Birmingham enrolled 17,999 students इससे more than 110 countries, सहित 1,605 freshmen.
There हैं plans to commence with an `` आक्रामक '' growth in enrollment at uab.
The वर्तमान UAB President is dr. Ray L. Watts.
Tofu, also called सेम curd, is a food बना by coagulating soy juice and then pressing the resulting curds into नरम white ब्लॉक.
It is a component in many ईस्ट Asian और southeast एशियाई cuisines.
There हैं अनेक different varieties of टोफू, सहित भैस tofu और tofu कि रै महरूम processed in some रास्ता.
Tofu has a हल्का स्वाद और can be used in savory and मीठी बर्तन.
It is often seasoned or marinated to suit the dish.
टोफू originated in ancient China some 2,000 years ago.
Chinese legend ascribes इसके invention to prince लियू An ( चाइनीज : 劉安 Liú Ān, 179–122 bc ).
Tofu और इसके उत्पादन technique were introduced into कोरियाई और then Japan दौरान the nara period.
It spread into अन्य parts of ईस्ट Asia as well.
This स्प्रेड likely coincided with the स्प्रेड of Buddhism because it is an important source of protein in the vegetarian diet of ईस्ट Asian Buddhism.
Li shizhen in the मिंग Dynasty वर्णित a method of बनाना tofu in Bencao Gangmu.
Tofu has a low calorie गिनती, relatively large amounts of प्रोटीन, और छोटी मोटे.
It is high in आयरन and depending on the coagulant used in manufacturing, may भी be ऊँची in calcium and/or magnesium.
बुलबुले ( born 1983 ) is a common chimpanzee, known for होने the one-time pet of अमरीकी recording कलाकार Michael Jackson, जो bought the primate from a Texas research facility in the जल्दी 1980s.
The एनिमल was a बारंबार travel companion to the singer, whose attachment to the animal led to मीडिया mockery and, among अन्य कारकों, to a public बोध of जैक्सन as an eccentric.
दौरान the Bad संसार Tour, लिये example, जैक्सन brought Bubbles with him to Japan, जहाँ वे दोनो पिया tea साथ the महापौर of Osaka.
बुलबुले was initially रखा at the जैक्सन family 's home in Encino, Los Angeles, लकिन was moved to neverland Ranch in 1988.
There, he slept in a crib in Jackson 's bedroom, used the singer 's toilet, and ate candy in the Neverland फिल्म theater.
In 2003 the public सीखे that, जैसे all खिलाते chimpanzees, बुलबुले था matured into a large and आक्रामक adult chimp unsuitable as a companion animal.
he was sent to a California animal प्रशिक्षक, जहाँ he was reported to have attempted suicide.
When the trainer shut bas his आपरेशन in 2004, Bubbles was moved to the Center for Great apes, a sanctuary in Wauchula, फ्लोरिडा, जहाँ he has जिया since 2005.
Muse हैं an English rock बैंड इससे Teignmouth, देवों, which formed in 1994.
the band consists of school मित्रों Matthew bellamy ( lead vocals, सीसे guitar, पियानो, keyboards, keytar ), क्रिस्टोफर wolstenholme ( bass, vocals, keyboards, rhythm गिटार, harmonica ) and Dominic Howard ( ड्रम, percussion, synthesisers, sampling ).
Since the release of उनके 2006 एल्बम Black छेद and खुलासे, keyboardist and percussionist Morgan Nicholls has performed live with the band.
Muse are known लिये their ऊर्जावान and हद live performances और उनके संलयन of many music genres, सहित स्पेस rock, प्रगतिशील चट्टान, वैकल्पिक चट्टान, भारी metal, शास्त्रीय music and electronica.
चिंतन have released six स्टुडियो albums : Showbiz ( 1999 ), उत्पत्ति of Symmetry ( 2001 ), Absolution ( 2003 ), ब्लैक छेद और Revelations ( 2006 ), the Resistance ( 2009 ) और The 2nd Law ( 2012 ).
They have also issued three live एल्बम, Hullabaloo साउंडट्रैक ( 2002 ), जिससे is also a compilation of B-sides, absolution दौरे ( 2005 ), and HAARP ( 2008 ), which documents the band 's performances at Wembley Stadium in 2007.
ब्लैक छेद and Revelations अर्जित the बैंड a Mercury पुरस्कार nomination and a third प्लेस समाप्त in the NME एल्बम of the साल सूची for 2006.
चिंतन have also won a संग्रहण of music पुरस्कार throughout their इतिहास, including पाँच MTV यूरोपीय म्यूज़िक Awards, छह q पुरस्कार, eight NME Awards, two ब्रिट पुरस्कार —winning `` बेहतरीन अंग्रेजों Live Act '' twice, an एमटीवी वीडियो Music Award, चार Kerrang !
Awards and an American Music Award.
They यहूद also nominated लिये पाँच Grammy पुरस्कार, of जिससे they won बेहतरीन Rock एल्बम, for उनके fifth studio album The Resistance ( 2009 ).
Muse have बेची over 15 million albums worldwide.
Bloemfontein (, ; Dutch लिये `` फव्वारा of पुष्प '' ) is the capital city of the Free State Province of South Africa ; और, as the judicial capital of the nation, एक of South Africa 's three नेशनल capitals – the अन्य दो होने केप Town, the legislative पूंजी, and Pretoria, the प्रशासनिक capital.
Bloemfontein is popularly and poetically ज्ञात as `` the city of roses ``, owing to the abundance of ये flowers और the annual rose festival आयोजित there.
The city 's Sesotho name is Mangaung, अर्थ `` place of cheetahs `` और it has been included in the Mangaung लोकल Municipality चूंकि 2000.
Bloemfontein is situated on शुष्क घासभूमि at, at an ऊँचाई of above समुद्र स्तर.
The नगर is home to 369,568 residents, जबकि the Mangaung लोकल नगरपालिका has a population of 645,455.
Where Do We आइये From ?
कया Are We ?
Where Are we Going ?
One of post-impressionist Paul Gauguin 's most famous paintings.
the meaning of life is a philosophical question concerning the significance of जीवन or existence in सामान्य.
It can भी be expressed in different फ़ॉर्म, such as `` Why are we यहाँ ? ``, `` What is life all about ? ``, and `` What is the purpose of अस्तित्व ? ''
It रै been the विषय of much philosophical, scientific, and theological अटकलें throughout history.
There have महरूम a विशाल क्रमांक of proposed answers to ये questions इससे अनेक अलग सांस्कृतिक and ideological backgrounds.
The अर्थ of जीवन is in the philosophical और धार्मिक conceptions of existence, सोशल ties, consciousness, and happiness, और सीमायें on many other issues, ऐसे as सांकेतिक meaning, सत्तामीमांसा, मान, purpose, ethics, good and evil, free will, the अस्तित्व of one or multiple देवताओं, conceptions of God, the आत्मा, और the afterlife.
वैज्ञानिक contributions फ़ोकस primarily on describing सम्बन्धित अनुभवजन्य तथ्य about the universe, exploring the context और parameters concerning the 'how ' of life.
Science also अध्ययन and can provide recommendations for the pursuit of well-being and a related conception of नैतिकता.
An alternative, humanistic approach poses the question `` What is the अर्थ of my life ? ''
The मान of the question pertaining to the purpose of life may coincide with the उपलब्धि of ultimate reality, or a feeling of oneness, or भी a अहसास of sacredness.
परिवार Guy creator Seth macfarlane also provides the आवाज़ें of पीटर griffin, Stewie griffin, ब्रायन Griffin, and Glenn कीचड़.
परिवार Guy is an अमरीकी एनिमेटेड sitcom कि features five प्रमुख आवाज़ अभिनेताओं, and numerous regular डाल and recurring guest stars.
The principal voice cast consists of show creator Seth MacFarlane, Alex borstein, Seth ग्रीन, Mila Kunis ( जो replaced लेसी Chabert बाद the first season ) और माइक हेनरी and अभी, the new actor Beau Osborne.
Recurring voice actors include Patrick Warburton, आदम West, John G. ब्रेनन, Nicole Sullivan और Jennifer Tilly, and repeat अतिथि सितारों शामिल Phyllis diller, चार्ल्स durning, फटाफट limbaugh, और Phil lamarr.
अनेक डाल members provide voices for multiple वर्ण.
the voice अभिनेताओं, in portraying the विभिन्न character personalities on the show, draw प्रेरणा from celebrities and pop संस्कृति.
Family Guy characters have been निभाई by अधिक than one actor, बाद members of the दिखाएँ left the series or had conflicting दायित्वों.
kunis थी मनोनीत for an एनी Award for voicing Meg Griffin in the ऋतु 5 एपीसोड `` मुश्किल विधिक `` और MacFarlane रै also जीती an Emmy पुरस्कार for Outstanding voice-over Performance और an एनी पुरस्कार for Best आवाज़ एक्टिंग in an एनिमेटेड Television उत्पादन, हालांकि no other cast member has won an award for उनके work on the series.
1911 Illustration by Edmund dulac
`` the राजकुमारी और the Pea '' ( ; literal अनुवाद : `` The राजकुमारी on the Pea '' ) is a literary fairy टेल by Hans Christian Andersen परिचय a young स्त्री whose royal identity is स्थापित by a test of her physical संवेदनशीलता.
The tale was पहला published साथ three others by andersen in an inexpensive पुस्तिका on 8 may 1835 in Copenhagen by c.a. Reitzel.
Andersen had सुना the story as a child, and it संभावित has इसके source in लोक material, संभवतः originating from स्वीडन as it is unknown in the डैनिश मौखिक परंपरा.
Neither `` The राजकुमारी और the Pea '' nor Andersen 's other किस्से of 1835 were well received by डैनिश आलोचकों, जो disliked their कैज़ुअल, chatty स्टाइल, and their lack of morals.
In 1959 `` The Princess and the Pea '' was adapted to the musical stage in a production called एकबार Upon a Mattress starring Carol burnett.
German Americans ( ) are citizens of the United राज्य who were either born in Germany or हैं of German ancestry.
They comprise परिचय 50 लाख लोगों, बनाना उन्हें the largest ancestry group ahead of आयरिश Americans, अफ़्रीकी Americans और अंग्रेज़ी अमेरिकी.
वे comprise परिचय 1/3 of the German diaspora सब over the world.
None of the जर्मनी राज्य had New World colonies.
Not जबतक the 1670s did the पहला significant समूह of German immigrants arrive in the अंग्रेजों colonies, settling primarily in New यॉर्क and पेन्सिलवेनिया.
आव्रजन continued in very large numbers दौरान the 19th century, with some आठ million आमद इससे Germany.
They were खींचा by the attractions of land और धार्मिक freedom, and pushed आउट of Europe by shortages of जमीन and religious or political oppression.
Many arrived seeking धार्मिक or राजनैतिक freedom, अन्य for आर्थिक opportunities वृहद than those in Europe, और others बस for the chance to start भैस in the New संसार.
the आमद before 1850 यहूद ज़्यादातर किसानो who sought out the most उत्पादक land, जहाँ their intensive खेती techniques would pay बंद.
After 1840, many came to cities, where `` germania '' —German-speaking districts—soon emerged.
German अमेरिकी established the पहला kindergartens in the संयुक्त राज्य, introduced the क्रिसमस पेड़ tradition, और originated popular अमरीकी भोजन such as hot dogs and hamburgers.
German अमरीकी जश्न are आयोजित throughout the country, एक of the most well-known होने the German-American steuben Parade in नई York नगर, held every third शनिवार in सितंबर.
वहीँ are भी major annual कार्यक्रम in Chicago, Cincinnati, Milwaukee, पिट्सबर्ग, st. लुई and अन्य शहरों.
Like many other immigrants कि आए to the संयुक्त राज्य, an overwhelming क्रमांक of लोगों of जर्मनी or partial जर्मनी descent have essentially become Americanized.
The Preamble to the United राज्य संविधान is a brief introductory statement of the Constitution 's fundamental उद्देश्य और guiding सिद्धान्त.
It राज्य in सामान्य terms, and courts have referred to it as विश्वसनीय evidence of, the founding Fathers ' intentions regarding the संविधान 's meaning and कया they hoped the Constitution होता achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the संयुक्त States.
As the phrase, `` we the people '' suggests that the नई government originates इससे the people of the संयुक्त States और it sets into motion a सवाल as it pertains to that vast population concerning the व्यक्तिगत rights और equality among all people ; this can be देखी most broadly in the divide between republicanism and सोशल लोकतंत्र.
the इतिहास of the Internet began with the development of electronic computers in the 1950s.
The पब्लिक was पहला introduced to the concepts कि would सीसे to the Internet जब a संदेश was sent over the ARPANet इससे computer science Professor Leonard Kleinrock 's laboratory at विश्वविद्यालयों of California, Los एंजिल्स ( ucla ), after the दूसरी piece of network उपकरण थी संस्थापित at स्टैनफोर्ड शोध संस्थान ( श्री ).
पैकेट switched संजाल such as arpanet, चिह्नित I at NPL in the uk, cyclades, Merit Network, tymnet, and Telenet, were developed in the लेट 1960s and early 1970s using a किस्में of प्रोटोकॉल.
The ARPANET in particular led to the विकास of protocols for internetworking, in जिससे अनेक separate networks could be joined together into a संजाल of networks.
In 1982, the अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल suite ( tcp/ip ) was standardized, और नतीजतन, the concept of a world-wide संजाल of interconnected TCP/IP संजाल, पुकारा the अंतरजाल, थी introduced.
Access to the ARPANET थी expanded in 1981 जब the National विज्ञान Foundation ( nsf ) developed the कंप्यूटर विज्ञान Network ( CSNET ) and again in 1986 जब NSFNET provided अभिगम to महासंगणक sites in the संयुक्त States इससे शोध and शिक्षा संगठन.
Commercial Internet service providers ( isps ) began to emerge in the late 1980s और जल्दी 1990s.
The ARPANET was decommissioned in 1990.
The Internet was commercialized in 1995 when NSFNET थी decommissioned, निकालना the पिछला restrictions on the use of the अंतरजाल to carry वाणिज्यिक traffic.
Since the mid-1990s, the Internet रै था a revolutionary impact on culture और कॉमर्स, सहित the वृद्धि of near-instant communication by electronic मेल, तत्काल messaging, Voice over Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) `` phone calls '', two-way इंटरैक्टिव video calls, and the संसार Wide Web with its चर्चा forums, blogs, सोशल networking, और online shopping साइट.
the research और education community continues to develop और use advanced networks such as NSF 's बहुत high speed रीढ़ Network Service ( vbns ), internet2, and National lambdarail.
Increasing amounts of आंकड़ा are transmitted at उच्चतर and उच्चतर speeds over fiber optic संजाल operating at 1-Gbit/s, 10-Gbit/s, or more.
The Internet 's कब्ज़ा over the वैश्विक संचार landscape was almost तत्काल in ऐतिहासिक terms : it तभी communicated 1 % of the सूचना बहती through two-way telecommunications networks in the year 1993, already 51 % by 2000, और अधिक than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007.
Today the Internet continues to grow, driven by कभी greater amounts of online information, कॉमर्स, entertainment, और social नेटवर्किंग.
दक्षिणपश्चिम Airlines Co. ( ) is a प्रमुख u.S. airline and the संसार 's largest low-cost carrier, headquartered in डलास, टेक्सास.
It was established in 1967 और adopted its वर्तमान name in 1971.
the एयरलाइन has more than 46,000 कर्मचारी and operates more than 3,400 फ़्लाइट per day.
as of जून 5, 2011, it carries the most domestic passengers of कोई U.S. airline.
as of April 2013, दक्षिणपश्चिम एयरलाइंस has scheduled सेवा to 84 गंतव्यों in 41 राज्य और प्यूर्टो Rico.
दक्षिणपश्चिम Airlines रै solely operated Boeing 737s, except for a few सालो in the 1970s and 1980s, when it संचालित Boeing 727s.
As of अगस्त 2012, दक्षिणपश्चिम is the largest operator of the 737 विश्वव्यापी with over 550 in service, प्रत्येक operating an average of six flights प्रति day.
In May 2011, the एयरलाइन acquired airtran Airways, with संयोजन of the वाहक expected to be complete by 2014.
On March 1, 2012, the company थी जारी a single ऑपरेटिंग certificate, technically becoming one एयरलाइन.
रोलिंग चट्टान is a 4.6 % abv pale lager launched in 1939 by the Latrobe Brewing कम्पनी.
Although संस्थापित as a लोकल beer in Western Pennsylvania, it was marketed aggressively और आखिरकार became a national उत्पाद.
The brand थी sold to Anheuser-Busch of St. Louis, मिसौरी, in mid 2006, जिससे transferred brewing operations to New Jersey.
बेनेडिक्ट xvi (,, ; born जोसेफ aloisius ratzinger on 16 अप्रैल 1927 ) is Pope emeritus of the Catholic Church.
He परोसा as पोप इससे 2005 to 2013.
In that position, he was both the नेता of the Catholic गिरिजाघर and Sovereign of the वेटिकन City राज्य.
Benedict was निर्वाचित on 19 April 2005 in a papal conclave, celebrated उसके Papal Inauguration द्रव्यमान on 24 April 2005, और took कब्ज़ा of his गिरजाघर, the archbasilica of st. John Lateran, on 7 May 2005.
ordained as a priest in 1951 in उसके native बायर्न, Ratzinger established himself as a highly regarded विश्वविद्यालयों theologian by the late 1950s और थी नियुक्त a full professor in 1958.
After a long करियर as an academic, सेवारत as a professor of theology at several German universities—the last होने the University of Regensburg, where he served as वाइस President of the विश्वविद्यालयों in 1976 and 1977—he was appointed archbishop of म्यूनिख और freising and cardinal by Pope Paul VI in 1977, an unusual प्रमोशन for किसी साथ छोटी pastoral अनुभव.
in 1981, he settled in Rome when he became Prefect of the सभा for the Doctrine of the Faith, one of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण dicasteries of the Roman curia.
From 2002 until his election as पोप, he was also Dean of the College of कार्डिनल्स, and as such, the primus इंटर pares among the cardinals.
Prior to becoming पोप, he was `` a major फिगर on the Vatican स्टेज for a quarter of a सदी '' as `` एक of the सबसे respected, influential और विवादास्पद members of the College of Cardinals '' ; he had an influence `` second to none when it came to सेटिंग गिरिजाघर priorities और दिशानिर्देश '' as one of Pope John Paul ii 's closest confidants.
He was originally a उदार theologian, but adopted conservative views बाद 1968.
उसके prolific writings defend traditional कैथोलिक doctrine and values.
दौरान his papacy, Benedict xvi advocated a return to आधारभूत ईसाई values to counter the increased secularisation of अनेक पश्चिमी countries.
he दृश्य relativism 's denial of उद्देश्य सच्चाई, and the denial of moral truths in particular, as the central problem of the 21st सदी.
He taught the importance of दोनो the कैथोलिक Church and an understanding of God 's redemptive love.
पोप Benedict also revived a number of परंपराओं including elevating the Tridentine द्रव्यमान to a more prominent position.
He नवीनीकृत the relationship between the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर और art, viewing the उपयोग of beauty as a path to the sacred, promoted the use of Latin, और reintroduced traditional papal garments, for जिससे reason he was पुकारा `` the पोप of aesthetics ''.
he has been described as `` the main intellectual force in the गिरिजाघर '' since the mid-1980s.
अनेक of Pope बेनेडिक्ट 's students from उसके अकादमिक करियर are also prominent churchmen today and confidantes of him, notably Christoph Schönborn.
on 11 February 2013, पोप बेनेडिक्ट announced his resignation in a speech in लैटिन before the कार्डिनल्स, citing a `` lack of शक्ति of mind and body '' due to his advanced age.
उसके resignation became effective on 28 फ़रवरी 2013.
He is the पहला पोप to इस्तीफा since पोप ग्रेगरी XII in 1415, and the first to do so on his अपना पहल चूंकि Pope celestine V in 1294.
as pope emeritus, Benedict retains the style of उसके Holiness, and the शीर्षक of Pope, and होगा continue to dress in the papal colour of white.
He was succeeded by Pope Francis on 13 March 2013, और he स्थानांतरित into the newly renovated मेटर Ecclesiae मठ लिये उसके retirement on 2 May 2013..
Pocket stereoscope with original test image.
प्रयुक्त by सैन्य to जाँचें stereoscopic pairs of aerial photographs.
View of Boston, c. 1860 ; an early stereoscopic कार्ड लिये देखने a झाँकी इससे nature
kaiser-panorama consisted of a multi-station viewing apparatus and sets of stereo स्लाइड.
Patented by A. fuhrmann around 1890.
कम्पनी of महिलाओं watching stereoscopic छायाचित्र, painting by Jacob Spoel, before 1868.
A very early चित्रण of people using a stereoscope.
Stereoscopy ( भी called stereoscopics or 3d imaging ) is a technique लिये creating or बढ़ाना the illusion of depth in an image by means of stereopsis लिये binocular vision.
The शब्द stereoscopy derives from the Greek `` στερεός '' ( stereos ), `` firm, ठोस '' + `` σκοπέω '' ( skopeō ), `` to dekh '', `` to देखिए ''.
Most stereoscopic methods present दो offset images separately to the left and right नजर of the viewer.
ये two-dimensional images are then combined in the दिमाग to दे the perception of 3D गहराई.
इस technique is विशिष्ट इससे 3D displays कि display an image in three पूरा आयाम, allowing the observer to increase information about the 3-dimensional objects being displayed by सिर और eye आंदोलनों.
John Adams ( October 30, 1735 ( O.S. October 19, 1735 ) – जुलाई 4, 1826 ) was the second president of the United States ( 1797–1801 ), having पहले served as the first vice president of the United States.
An अमरीकी Founding Father, he was a statesman, diplomat, और a अग्रणी एडवोकेट of American स्वतंत्रता इससे Great Britain.
Well educated, he थी an आत्मज्ञान राजनैतिक theorist who प्रचारित republicanism और लिखा prolifically परिचय his often seminal विचार, both in प्रकाशित works and in अक्षर to उसके wife and key adviser Abigail as well as to अन्य Founding Fathers.
Adams आए to prominence in the जल्दी चरण of the अमरीकी Revolution.
A वकील and public figure in Boston, as a delegate इससे Massachusetts to the Continental Congress, he played a leading भूमिका in persuading कॉंग्रेस to घोषित स्वतंत्रता.
he assisted थामस Jefferson in drafting the Declaration of स्वतंत्रता in 1776, और थी its primary advocate in the कॉंग्रेस.
बाद, as a राजनयिक in Europe, he helped negotiate the eventual peace सन्धि with ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, and थी जिम्मेदार for obtaining vital सरकारी loans इससे Amsterdam बैंकर्स.
A political theorist और historian, Adams largely wrote the Massachusetts संविधान in 1780, जिससे साथ with उसके earlier विचार on सरकारी, influenced अमरीकी राजनैतिक विचार.
एक of उसके महानतम roles was as a judge of character : in 1775, he मनोनीत जार्ज वॉशिंगटन to be commander-in-chief, and 25 सालो later nominated John मार्शल to be मुख्य इंसाफ of the United राज्य.
एडम्स ' revolutionary credentials secured him two शर्तें as जार्ज Washington 's वाइस president and his own election in 1796 as the second president.
During उसके एक term, he encountered ferocious हमले by the Jeffersonian Republicans, as खूब as the dominant faction in his own federalist Party led by उसके कड़वा दुश्मन सिकंदर हैमिल्टन.
Adams हस्ताक्षरित the विवादास्पद एलियन और Sedition Acts, और built up the army और नेवी especially in the face of an undeclared naval war ( called the `` Quasi-War `` ) with फ़्रांस, 1798–1800.
The प्रमुख accomplishment of his प्रेसिडेंसी was his peaceful resolution of the विरोध in the face of हैमिल्टन 's opposition.
in 1800, Adams was defeated for re-election by Thomas Jefferson और रिटायर्ड to मैसाचुसेट्स.
he बाद resumed his friendship with Jefferson.
he and his wife, अबीगैल Adams, founded an accomplished family line of राजनेता, diplomats, और इतिहासकारों अभी referred to as the Adams राजनैतिक family.
Adams was the father of John क्विंसी एडम्स, the छठे President of the United राज्य.
उसके achievements have received greater recognition in modern टाइम्स, हालांकि उसके contributions were not initially as celebrated as those of other संस्थापकों.
Adams was the first u.S. अध्यक्ष to reside in the भवन कि eventually became ज्ञात as the White हाउस.
the United States ten-dollar विधेयक ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of संयुक्त States करेंसी.
the पहला U.S. Secretary of the Treasury ( 1789–95 ), सिकंदर हैमिल्टन, is currently featured on the obverse of the bill, while the u.S. राजकोष भवन is प्रदर्शित on the रिवर्स.
( Hamilton is one of two non-presidents प्रदर्शित on currently issued u.S. bills.
The other is बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन, on the $ 100 bill.
Hamilton is एक of तभी four people प्रदर्शित on u.S. paper करेंसी ( 1861 to the उपस्थित ) who was नहीं born in the continental United States, as he थी from the वेस्ट Indies.
The अन्य are : Albert gallatin, Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 विधिक Tender ) ; जार्ज Meade, स्पेन ( $ 1,000 1890/91 Treasury नोट ) ; and Robert मॉरिस, इंग्लैण्ड ( $ 1,000 1862/63 विधिक Tender ; $ 10 1878/80 चांदी Certificate ).
In जोड, kamehameha i, appears on the 2008 हवाई राज्य क्वार्टर. )
सब $ 10 bills issued आज हैं संघीय Reserve टीप.
the ब्यूरो of नक्काशी और Printing says the average जीवन of a $ 10 bill in circulation is 18 महीने पहले it is replaced due to wear.
लगभग 6 % of सब US banknotes मुद्रित in 2009 were $ 10 bills.
Ten dollar bills are वितरित by Federal Reserve Banks in पीला straps.
The source of the फेस on the $ 10 विधेयक is जॉन trumbull ’s 1805 पोर्ट्रेट of Hamilton that belongs to the portrait collection of नई यॉर्क City Hall.
the $ 10 bill is the only U.S. paper currency in परिसंचरण in which the portrait faces to the बाएँ ( the $ 100,000 bill featured a portrait of Woodrow विल्सन facing to the left, but was प्रयुक्त only for intra-government transactions ).
A rider on a यामाहा waverunner XL performing a high-speed फेरे.
A jetboat is a नाव propelled by a jet of water ejected इससे the back of the craft.
Unlike a powerboat or motorboat that uses a propeller in the water below or पीछे the boat, a jetboat draws the water इससे under the boat into a pump inside the नाव, then expels it through a nozzle at the stern.
Jetboats यहूद originally designed by Sir William Hamilton ( who विकसित a waterjet in 1954 ) for आपरेशन in the fast-flowing और shallow rivers of नई Zealand, specifically to overcome the प्रॉब्लम of propellers striking rocks in such waters.
पिछला attempts at waterjet नोदन had बहुत छोटी lifetimes, generally due to the inefficient design of the units and the fact कि they offered few लाभ over conventional propellers.
नापसंद ये previous waterjet developments, such as Campini 's और the hanley Hydrojet, हैमिल्टन had a specific need for a नोदन प्रणाली to operate in very-shallow water, और the waterjet proved to be the ideal समाधान.
इससे this, the लोकप्रियता of the जेट unit and jetboat increased rapidly.
Through further developments, it was found the waterjet offered several अन्य लाभ over propellers for a wide दायरा of पोत types, and as such, waterjets are used widely आज for अनेक high-speed vessels, सहित यात्री ferries, rescue craft, पैट्रोल boats and offshore सप्लाई vessels.
Jetboats are highly maneuverable, और अनेक can, from पूरा speed, be reversed और brought to a stop within little more than उनके own length, in a maneuver known as a `` crash रोकें ''.
The well known Hamilton turn or `` jet spin '' is a high-speed maneuvre जहाँ the नाव 's इंजन throttle is काटें, the steering is turned sharply and the throttle opened again, causing the boat to spin quickly around साथ a विशाल स्प्रे of water.
There is no अभियान्त्रिकी सीमा to the आकार of jetboats, though the वैध of their उपयोग depends a लॉट on the प्रकार of application.
Classic prop-drives are generally more efficient and economical at कम speeds, up to परिचय, but as boat गति increases परे this, the extra हल resistance generated by struts, rudders, shafts ( etc. ) means waterjets हैं अधिक efficient in the 20-50 knot दायरा ( up to ).
Also, in परिस्थितियों with बहुत विशाल propellers turning at slow speeds ( ऐसे as tug boats ), the equivalent आकार waterjet would be too big to be व्यावहारिक.
लिये these reasons, the vast majority of waterjet इकाई are installed in high-speed vessels और in particular situations where shallow draught, maneuverability, और load flexibility are main चिंताएं.
the biggest jet-driven बरतन are found in सैन्य use or the high-speed passenger/car ferry industry.
दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी 's s ( approximately long ) हैं the biggest jet-propelled vessels so far.
Even ये German-built vessels are capable of performing `` crash stops ''.
Uveitis is broadly defined as inflammation of the uvea.
the uvea consists of the middle, pigmented, vascular structures of the नजर और includes the आईरिस, ciliary body, और choroid.
Uveitis requires an तात्कालिक referral and thorough examination by an ophthalmologist or optometrist साथ with urgent treatment to control the सूजन.
Eric `` E. ''
मर्फी is a fictional character on the comedy-drama television series अनुगामी.
He is played by केविन connolly.
the Shining is a 1980 psychological हॉरर film produced and निर्देशित by स्टेनली Kubrick, co-written with novelist Diane Johnson, और अभिनीत Jack Nicholson, Shelley duvall, Scatman crothers, and Danny लॉयड.
The film is आधारित on the Stephen King अनोखा The जगमगाता.
A लेखक, जोकर Torrance, takes a job as an off-season कार्यवाहक at an isolated hotel.
His young son possesses psychic abilities and is able to see बाते इससे the past और future, ऐसे as the ghosts who inhabit the hotel.
जल्द बाद settling in, the family is trapped in the होटल by a snowstorm, and Jack धीरे becomes बहकावे by a supernatural presence ; he उतरता into दीवानगी and कोशिशें to murder his wife and बेटे.
Unlike पिछला Kubrick films, जिससे विकसित an दर्शक धीरे by building on word-of-mouth, The Shining was released as a mass-market film, opening at पहला in बस two शहरों on Memorial Day, then देशभर a माह बाद.
Although initial response to the film was mixed, बाद critical assessment was अधिक favorable and it is अभी viewed as a classic of the हॉरर genre.
Film director मार्टिन Scorsese, लिखने in the रोज़ जानवर, क्रमित it as एक of the 11 scariest हॉरर फिल्मों of all time.
Film critics, film students, and Kubrick 's निर्माता, जन Harlan, have remarked on the enormous influence the फिल्मी has था on popular culture.
the initial European रिलीज of The Shining थी 25 minutes shorter than the अमरीकी संस्करण, हासिल by removing most of the दृश्यों taking प्लेस outside the environs of the होटल.
Patio Cola Bottle
आँगन Diet Cola थी a brand of आहार soda introduced by Pepsi in 1963.
It was created in जवाब to आहार Rite Cola, which थी the first आहार cola on the मार्केट.
फ़िटनेस promoter Debbie ड्रेक was Patio Diet Cola 's spokesperson.
In 1964, Patio released orange, grape, और रूट बियर flavors.
This flavor line थी नहीं meant to compete with brands like नारंगी Crush, लकिन बल्कि भरण out the लकीर.
Patio sodas यहूद available in the cold-bottle market : grocery and mom-and-pop स्टोर्स.
विज्ञापन for आँगन थी comparatively scarce ; at the समय, bottlers were regionally franchised, and related advertising थी necessarily लोकल.
in 1964, Patio diet cola became Diet Pepsi.
The newly branded diet soda थी advertised alongside Pepsi with the टैगलाइन `` Pepsi either रास्ता '', which replaced the स्लोगन `` dances with स्वाद ''.
The short जीवन span of आँगन आहार कोला makes it a ग्रेट जोड लिये bottle collectors.
Most of the बाकी Patio line of flavors यहूद phased out by the जल्दी 1970s, जबकि a few बच जबतक the mid 70s
Infrastructure is basic शारीरिक and organizational structures needed for the operation of a society or एंटरप्राइज़, or the services and facilities जरुरी लिये an economy to function.
It can be generally पारिभाषित as the नियत of interconnected structural elements कि provide framework supporting an entire ढांचा of development.
it is an important term for judging a देश or प्रदेश 's विकास.
the term typically refers to the technical structures कि support a society, ऐसे as roads, पुलों, जल supply, sewers, electrical ग्रिड, दूरसंचार, और so forth, और can be पारिभाषित as `` the physical components of interrelated systems providing commodities और services अनिवार्य to enable, sustain, or बढ़ाएँ societal जीना शर्तें. ''
viewed functionally, infrastructure facilitates the उत्पादन of goods and services, और also the distribution of समाप्त उत्पाद to बाज़ार, as well as basic social सेवाएं such as schools and अस्पताल ; for example, roads enable the हस्तांतरण of raw materials to a factory.
in military parlance, the term refers to the buildings और permanent संस्थापना जरुरी for the support, redeployment, and operation of military शक्तियां.
To make it simple, अवसंरचना is anything कि is needed everyday, an everyday मद.
A graphical representation of the ideal इंसान karyotype
mitochondrial डीएनए.
इंसान genetic विभिन्नता is the genetic differences both भीतर and among populations.
There may be multiple variants of कोई given gene in the इंसान जनसांख्यिकी ( genes ), leading to बहुरूपता.
अनेक genes हैं not polymorphic, meaning कि तभी a सिंगल allele is present in the जनसांख्यिकी : the जीन is then कहा to be fixed.
no दो इंसानो हैं genetically identical.
Even monozygotic twins, जो develop from one zygote, have infrequent genetic मतभेद due to mutations occurring during विकास and gene नक़ल number variation.
Differences between individuals, भी closely related individuals, are the कुंजी to techniques such as जेनेटिक fingerprinting.
alleles occur at अलग frequencies in अलग human populations, साथ populations that हैं अधिक geographically and ancestrally रिमोट tending to differ more.
Causes of मतभेद between individuals include the एक्सचेंज of जीनों during meiosis और various mutational कार्यक्रम.
वहीँ are at तनिक two reasons क्यों जेनेटिक विभिन्नता exists between populations.
Natural selection may confer an adaptive लाभ to individuals in a specific पर्यावरण if an allele provides a competitive advantage.
Alleles अंतर्गत चयन are likely to occur तभी in those geographic regions जहाँ वे confer an advantage.
The second main कारण of genetic variation is due to the ऊँची degree of neutrality of most mutations.
सबसे mutations do not appear to have कोई selective प्रभाव one way or the other on the सजीव.
The main कारण is genetic drift, this is the effect of यादृच्छिक changes in the gene pool.
in humans, founder effect and past small population आकार ( increasing the likelihood of genetic drift ) may have had an महत्वपूर्ण influence in न्यूट्रल मतभेद between populations.
The theory that इंसानो recently migrated आउट of अफ़्रीकी supports this.
The study of इंसान genetic विभिन्नता रै both evolutionary significance और medical applications.
It can सहायता scientists समझे ancient इंसान population migrations as well as how अलग इंसान समूह हैं biologically सम्बन्धित to एक another.
For आयुर्विज्ञान, पढ़ाई of human जेनेटिक variation may be important because कुछ disease-causing alleles occur more often in people from विशिष्ट geographic regions.
New findings दिखाएँ कि प्रत्येक human has on average 60 new mutations compared to their अभिभावक.
Apart इससे mutations, many जीनों कि may have aided humans in ancient टाइम्स प्लेग इंसानो आज.
लिये example, it is suspected कि जीनों that allow इंसानो to more efficiently process खाना हैं those कि make people susceptible to मोटापा and मधुमेह आज.
Tea Party प्रदर्शनकारियों on the West लॉन of the u.S. Capitol and the National Mall at the Taxpayer March on Washington on September 12, 2009.
The चाय पार्टी movement is an American political गति that advocates strict adherence to the संयुक्त States Constitution, reducing U.S. government बिता और taxes, और reduction of the U.S. नेशनल debt and federal budget deficit.
the movement रै been called partly रूढ़िवादी, partly libertarian, and partly populist.
The movement रै sponsored protests and supported political उम्मीदवार चूंकि 2009.
The नाम of the गति is derived इससे the बोस्टन Tea पार्टी of 1773, an iconic event in अमरीकी history.
Anti-tax प्रदर्शनकारियों in the संयुक्त States have often referred to the असली Boston Tea Party for प्रेरणा.
References to the बोस्टन चाय पार्टी यहूद भाग of Tax Day protests आयोजित throughout the 1990s और पहले.
by 2001, a custom था developed among कुछ conservative कार्यकर्ताओं of mailing tea bags to legislators और अन्य officials as a symbolic act.
the मुद्राएँ of Puerto Rico closely follow the historic development of प्यूर्टो रीको.
As a उपनिवेश of Spain and the United राज्य, प्यूर्टो Rico थी granted the उपयोग of both foreign और प्रांतीय currencies.
following the Spanish colonization in 1502, प्यूर्टो रीको became an महत्वपूर्ण port, with इसके own सप्लाई of gold.
However, as the खनिज reserves भागा खाली within the century, the archipelago 's अर्थव्यवस्था suffered.
The Spanish क्राउन issued the Situado mexicano, which meant कि a semi-regular shipment of सुनहरा from the viceroyalty of नई स्पेन would be भेजा to the island, as a रास्ता to provide economic support.
Between 1636 and 1637, Philip IV of Spain imposed a tax which had to be paid using a revenue स्टैम्प.
Inspired by इस, Puerto Rico began producing banknotes in 1766, becoming the पहला colony to print 8- real banknotes in the Spanish Empire और जिससे in the स्पेनी government 's approval of subsequent मुद्दे.
the situado was discontinued दौरान the 19th century, बनाना an आर्थिक crisis, as a result of Mexico gaining its independence इससे Spain.
Salvador meléndez Bruna, the colonial governor in office, ordered the issue of provincial banknotes, creating the Puerto Rican पेसो.
however, मुद्रण of these banknotes ceased बाद 1815.
दौरान the following decades, foreign coins became the फैली करेंसी.
In the 1860s and 1870s, banknotes reemerged.
on फ़रवरी 1, 1890, the banco Español de Puerto रीको was inaugurated और began issuing banknotes.
The bank designed four श्रेणी और लगाई three in परिसंचरण अंतर्गत Spanish rule.
In 1895, a Royal डिक्री ordered the production of provincial पेसो सिक्के.
On August 13, 1898, the Spanish-American युद्ध ended with स्पेन ceding प्यूर्टो रीको to the United States.
The banco Español de Puerto रीको थी renamed Bank of पोर्टो रीको and जारी bills समतुल्य to the United States डालर, creating the प्यूर्टो Rican डालर.
In 1902, the First नेशनल Bank of पोर्टो रीको जारी banknotes in a समानांतर manner.
दो अधिक श्रेणी यहूद issued until 1913.
After Puerto Rico 's economy and monetary system was fully integrated into the संयुक्त States ' आर्थिक और monetary system, the प्यूर्टो rican डॉलर were redeemed for those issued by the संयुक्त राज्य राजकोष.
The peso और डालर have been followed by अन्य समकालीन issues, including commemorative banknotes, private currency, और a quarter सिक्का designed साथ फोर्ट सैन Felipe del morro in the face.
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as पेप्सी, formerly stylized in uppercase as PEPSI ) is a carbonated नरम drink that is produced और manufactured by PepsiCo.
Created and विकसित in 1893 और introduced as Brad 's पेय, it थी renamed as Pepsi-Cola on August 28, 1898, then to Pepsi in 1961.
The Book of ezekiel is the third of the latter Prophets in the Hebrew बाइबल, following the किताबे of यशायाह and Jeremiah और preceding the किताब of the Twelve.
( the order is somewhat different in the Christian Old Testament ).
It derives its name from, and रिकॉर्ड the visions of, the 6th सदी bc priest and prophet Ezekiel.
According to the book, the prophet, exiled in बाबुल, experienced a श्रेणी of सात visions during the 22 सालो from 593 to 571 bc, a period जिससे spans the फाइनल destruction of Jerusalem in 586.
The visions, and the किताब, are structured around three themes : ( 1 ) judgment on Israel ( chapters 1-24 ) ; ( 2 ) judgment on the nations ( chapters 25-32 ) ; and भविष्य blessings लिये इसराईल ( अध्याय 33-48 ).
New ऑरलियन्स ( or, locally or ; ) is a major United राज्य port और the largest नगर और metropolitan क्षेत्रफल in the state of Louisiana.
The population of the नगर was 343,829 as of the 2010 U.S. Census.
the New Orleans metropolitan area ( नई Orleans–Metairie–Kenner महानगर Statistical क्षेत्रफल ) had a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,167,764 in 2010 और was the 46th largest in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The New Orleans–Metairie–Bogalusa Combined Statistical Area, a larger trading क्षेत्रफल, था a 2010 जनसांख्यिकी of 1,214,932.
The city is नामित बाद Orléans, a city located on the loire River in Centre, France, and is खूब known for its distinct फ्रेंच Creole architecture, as well as इसके cross-cultural and multilingual विरासत.
नई ऑरलियन्स is also प्रसिद्ध लिये its भोजन, music ( particularly as the birthplace of jazz ), और इसके सालाना celebrations और त्यौहार, most notably Mardi ग्रा.
The नगर is often referred to as the `` most unique '' in America.
New Orleans is located in southeastern louisiana, straddling the Mississippi River.
the city and Orleans Parish ( ) हैं.
The नगर और parish are bounded by the parishes of st. tammany to the north, St. Bernard to the ईस्ट, Plaquemines to the दक्षिण and Jefferson to the south and west.
Lake pontchartrain, part of which is शामिल in the city limits, झूठ to the उत्तर और झील Borgne lies to the east.
the National जनम कंट्रोल लीग थी a जनम control organization in the United राज्य.
it थी founded in March 1915 by Mary Dennett, Clara Gruening stillman and Jessie एशले.
Its प्रमुख purpose was to overturn the laws which banned contraceptives from the U.S. mails.
Campaigns were mounted in नई York, but in 1919 the League was disbanded and reformed into the voluntary Parenthood League.
Cancer, ज्ञात medically as a malignant neoplasm, is a broad समूह of विभिन्न रोगों, all involving unregulated कोशिका विकास.
In कर्कट, कोशिकाएं divide and grow uncontrollably, forming malignant tumors, और invade nearby parts of the देह.
the कर्कट may also स्प्रेड to more दूर parts of the body through the lymphatic system or bloodstream.
Not all tumors are cancerous.
Benign tumors do not grow uncontrollably, do not invade neighboring ऊतकों, और do not spread throughout the देह.
There are over 200 अलग ज्ञात cancers that afflict इंसानो.
Determining what कल्याणकारी कर्कट is complex.
Many बाते are ज्ञात to increase the रिस्क of कर्कट, including tobacco use, certain infections, radiation, lack of शारीरिक कार्यकलाप, मोटापा, and पर्यावरणीय प्रदूषक.
These can सीधे damage genes or combine with मौजूदा genetic faults भीतर कोशिकाएं to कारण the disease.
Approximately five to टेन प्रतिशत of cancers are entirely hereditary.
कर्कट can be detected in a number of तरीके, including the presence of certain signs और लक्षण, screening tests, or medical imaging.
Once a संभावित कर्कट is detected it is diagnosed by microscopic examination of a tissue sample.
Cancer is प्रायः treated साथ chemotherapy, radiation चिकित्सा and surgery.
The chances of surviving the disease vary greatly by the type और location of the cancer and the extent of बीमारी at the start of treatment.
While cancer can affect लोगों of सब आयु, और a few प्रकार of cancer are अधिक आम in children, the risk of developing cancer generally increases with आयु.
In 2007, कर्कट caused about 13 % of all human मौतों worldwide ( 7.9 million ).
Rates हैं rising as more people live to an बूढ़ा age और as mass lifestyle परिवर्तन occur in the विकासशील world.
वसन्त स्की touring on hardangervidda, Norway
Skiing is a recreational activity and competitive खेल in which the participant attaches long runners or skis to boots or shoes on the फीट and uses them to travel on शीर्ष of हिम.
aside इससे recreation और competition, स्कीइंग has महरूम used for military purposes और भी travelling in क्षेत्रों that अनुभव भारी snowfall.
Many types of प्रतिस्पर्धी स्कीइंग कार्यक्रम are पहचाना by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Olympic Committee, and the International स्की Federation.
John मेनार्ड keynes, 1st सामन्त Keynes, cb, FBA ( ; 5 June 1883 – 21 April 1946 ) थी a British अर्थशास्त्री whose ideas have fundamentally affected the सिद्धान्त और practice of modern macroeconomics, and सूचित the आर्थिक policies of governments.
He built on and greatly परिष्कृत पहले कार्य on the causes of कारोबार चक्र, and is widely considered to be one of the संस्थापकों of modern macroeconomics and the सबसे influential अर्थशास्त्री of the 20th century.
His ideas are the basis for the school of thought known as keynesian economics, as well as its various offshoots.
In many ways, subsequent developments in 20th सदी अर्थशास्त्र can be viewed as either भवन on keynes ' विचार or reacting against उन्हें.
In the 1930s, Keynes spearheaded a क्रान्ति in आर्थिक thinking, overturning the पुरानी विचार of neoclassical economics that held कि फ़्री markets would, in the short to मीडियम पद, automatically provide पूरा employment, as long as मजदूर यहूद flexible in उनके wage demands.
keynes instead argued that aggregate माँग determined the overall स्तर of आर्थिक कार्यकलाप, and that अपर्याप्त aggregate माँग could lead to prolonged अवधि of high unemployment.
he advocated the use of फिस्कल and monetary उपायों to mitigate the प्रतिकूल प्रभाव of economic recessions and depressions.
following the outbreak of the Second World युद्ध, keynes 's विचार concerning economic नीति यहूद अपनाया by अग्रणी पश्चिमी economies.
In 1942, Keynes was awarded a खानदानी peerage as Baron keynes of Tilton in the County of ससेक्स.
Keynes died in 1946, but during the 1950s and 1960s the कामयाबी of keynesian economics resulted in almost all capitalist governments adopting इसके policy recommendations.
Keynes 's influence waned in the 1970s, partly as a परिणाम of समस्याएं that began to पहुँचकर the anglo-american economies from the प्रारंभ of the दशक, and partly क्युकी of critiques इससे Milton फ्राइडमैन and अन्य अर्थशास्त्रियों who were pessimistic about the ability of governments to regulate the कारोबार साईकिल साथ fiscal नीति.
However, the आगमन of the global वित्तीय crisis in 2007 caused a पुनरुत्थान in Keynesian thought.
Keynesian economics provided the सैद्धांतिक underpinning लिये economic नीतियों undertaken in response to the crisis by राष्ट्रपतियों जार्ज W. बुश और Barack Obama of the संयुक्त राज्य, Prime Minister Gordon भूरा of the संयुक्त Kingdom, and अन्य heads of सरकारें.
In 1999, समय पत्रिका शामिल keynes in उनके list of the 100 सबसे महत्वपूर्ण and influential लोगों of the 20th सदी, commenting that : `` His radical idea that सरकारें चाहिए खर्च धन they do n't have may have saved capitalism. ''
In addition to होने an अर्थशास्त्री, keynes was also a civil servant, a director of the अंग्रेजों eugenics Society, a director of the Bank of England, a patron of the कला और an art कलेक्टर, a part of the Bloomsbury समूह of intellectuals, an advisor to अनेक charitable trusts, a लेखक, a philosopher, a private investor, and a farmer.
This 1768 parchment ( 612×502 mm ) by jekuthiel Sofer emulated the 1675 Ten Commandments at the Amsterdam esnoga synagogue.
The Ten आयतें, also ज्ञात as the decalogue, are a set of biblical laws relating to आचार and इबादत, जिससे play a fundamental role in judaism, Islam and christianity.
They include निर्देश to worship तभी परमेश्वर, to keep the sabbath holy and prohibitions against idolatry, इनकार, हत्या, theft, deception and व्यभिचार.
Different groups follow slightly different traditions लिये interpreting and numbering उन्हें.
the टेन Commandments appear twice in the Hebrew बाइबल, in the books of exodus और deuteronomy.
According to the story in Exodus, God inscribed उन्हें on two stone टैबलेट, which he gave to मूसा on माउंट Sinai.
Modern scholarship has found likely influences in hittite and mesopotamian laws and treaties, लकिन is divided over exactly when the टेन Commandments were written और who लिखा them.
The discography of the English alternative चट्टान band the smiths consists of चार स्टुडियो albums, one विस्तारित play ( EP ), one सजीव एल्बम, टेन compilation एल्बम, बीस singles, एक वीडियो album and चौदह music वीडियो on the अशिष्ट Trade, sire और WEA record labels.
The बैंड was formed in 1982 in Manchester by vocalist morrissey, guitarist Johnny Marr, bass खिलाड़ी Andy rourke and drummer Mike Joyce.
Despite being championed by बीबीसी रेडियो 1 डिस्क jockey जॉन Peel, the बैंड 's डेब्यू single, `` हाथ in दस्ताने `` ( May 1983 ), विफल to chart.
Its follow-up, `` इस आकर्षक man `` ( October 1983 ), मिले with critical acclaim and reached number twenty-five on the UK Singles Chart.
The smiths ' cult status was followed by मुख्यधारा कामयाबी in 1984, as वे reached number बारह in the UK with the `` कया अंतर Does it Make ? `` सिंगल और पहुँचे क्रमांक two on the uk Albums Chart with their डेब्यू album, The Smiths ( 1984 ).
उनके अगला three singles all reached the शीर्ष twenty of the charts in the UK, helping to consolidate उनके पिछला chart success.
the अगला studio album, Meat is Murder ( 1985 ), पहुँचे the top of the अंग्रेजों चार्ट ; however, the only सिंगल to be released from the एल्बम, `` कि Joke is n't मजेदार Anymore `` ( 1985 ), failed to break the UK Top 40.
Returning to form, The Smiths ' next six singles all पहुँचे the उच्चतर than number thirty in the UK and उनके third एल्बम, The Queen is Dead ( 1986 ), पहुँचे क्रमांक two in the UK.
despite the बैंड 's chart success, Marr left the समूह in अगस्त 1987 due to a strained relationship with morrissey.
failing to ढूँढें a replacement, the smiths disbanded by the समय their final studio album, Strangeways, यहाँ We आइये, was released in सितंबर that year.
Strangeways, Here We Come पहुँचे क्रमांक two in the UK and became the बैंड 's highest-charting रिलीज in the United States when it reached क्रमांक fifty-five on the बिलबोर्ड 200.
In early 1992, WEA acquired the entire वापस catalogue of The Smiths और उत्पादित two compilations – Best... I and... बेहतरीन ii – the पहला of which reached the top of the UK एल्बम Chart.
wea released two further singles compilations in 1995 और 2001, with a further संकलन, the Sound of The smiths, released in November 2008.
Gone साथ the Wind is a novel लिखा by Margaret Mitchell, first प्रकाशित in 1936.
It is प्रायः placed in the literary sub-genre of the ऐतिहासिक रोमांस novel.
However, it has been argued the अनोखा is a `` निकट miss '' and करता not contain all of the तत्व of the रोमांस genre, making it simply a historical novel.
The story is नियत in Clayton County, Georgia, और Atlanta दौरान the American Civil युद्ध and पुनर्निर्माण.
it depicts the अनुभवों of स्कारलेट O'Hara, the spoiled daughter of a well-to-do plantation owner, who must use every अर्थात् at her निपटान to आइये out of the गरीबी वो पाता herself in after शरमन 's `` March to the Sea ''.
Margaret मिशेल began लिखने Gone with the Wind in 1926 to pass the समय जबकि recovering from an auto-crash injury कि refused to heal.
in अप्रैल 1935, Harold Latham of Macmillan, an एडिटर who थी looking लिये new fiction, read कया वो था written and देखी that it could be a best-seller.
After Latham agreed to publish the किताब, Mitchell worked लिये another six महीने checking the historical references, और rewrote the खोलने chapter अनेक times.
मिशेल and her husband John दलदल, a copy editor by व्यापार, संपादित the final version of the novel.
Mitchell लिखा the book 's final moments पहला, और then लिखा the events कि led up to it.
as to what became of her lovers, रहेट and Scarlett, after the अनोखा ended, Mitchell किया नहीं know, और कहा, `` For all I जान, Rhett may have found someone else who was कम difficult. ''
Mitchell received the Pulitzer Prize for fiction for the book in 1937.
The book थी adapted into a 1939 American फिल्मी.
गए with the Wind is the तभी अनोखा by मिशेल प्रकाशित दौरान her lifetime.
endodontics ( इससे the Greek endo `` अंदर '' ; and odons `` दाँत '' ) is एक of the dental specialties recognized by the American दंत संघ, Royal College of dentists of Canada, और royal Australasian College of Dental Surgeons, और सौदे साथ the दाँत pulp and the tissues surrounding the root of a दाँत.
endodontists perform a किस्में of procedures सहित endodontic therapy ( commonly ज्ञात as `` root canal therapy '' ), endodontic retreatment, surgery, treating cracked दांत, and treating दंत trauma.
रूट कनाल therapy is one of the सबसे common procedures.
If the pulp ( containing nerves, arterioles, venules, lymphatic tissue, and fibrous tissue ) becomes diseased or injured, endodontic treatment is जरूरी to save the दाँत.
Serial संलग्न SCSI ( sas ) is a point-to-point सीरियल प्रोटोकॉल कि moves आंकड़ा to and from computer storage devices ऐसे as मुश्किल drives और tape drives.
SAS replaces the पुरानी Parallel SCSI ( सुनाया `` scuzzy '' ) बस प्रौद्योगिकी that first appeared in the mid-1980s.
SAS, like इसके पूर्ववर्ती, उपयोग the standard SCSI कमांड set.
sas offers पिछड़ा संगतता साथ second-generation SATA ड्राइव.
SATA 3 gbit/s ड्राइव may be connected to SAS backplanes, but sas drives can not connect to SATA backplanes.
the T10 technical committee of the International Committee for सूचना Technology मानकों ( INCITS ) develops और maintains the SAS protocol ; the SCSI Trade संघ ( SCSITA ) promotes the technology.
Part of the संवैधानिक प्रावधान as it appeared in 1787
Status as a natural-born citizen of the United States is one of the eligibility आवश्यकताएँ established in the United राज्य संविधान for election to the office of President or Vice President.
This requirement was intended to protect the nation from foreign influence.
The Constitution करता not define the phrase natural-born citizen, and various opinions have been offered over time regarding इसके precise meaning.
A 2011 Congressional Research Service रपट stated
the natural-born-citizen clause रै महरूम उल्लेखित in गुजर in several decisions of the संयुक्त राज्य Supreme अदालत and lower courts dealing साथ the सवाल of eligibility for नागरिकता by जनम, लकिन the परम् Court रै never directly addressed the सवाल of a specific presidential or vice-presidential प्रत्याशी 's eligibility as a natural-born citizen.
kurtis Eugene `` कर्ट '' warner ( born जून 22, 1971 ) is a former अमरीकी football player.
He निभाई quarterback for तीन नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League ( एनएफएल ) टीमों : the St. लुई Rams, the नई York दिग्गज, और the Arizona Cardinals.
he was originally signed by the Green Bay पैकर्स as an undrafted फ़्री agent in 1994 बाद playing college football at उत्तरी आयोवा.
Warner would go on to be considered the बेहतरीन undrafted player of all समय, following a 12-year career regarded as एक of the greatest stories in NFL history.
warner first attained stardom जबकि playing लिये the St. लुई Rams इससे 1998 to 2003, where he won two एनएफएल MVP पुरस्कार in 1999 and 2001 as well as the Super Bowl mvp पुरस्कार in सुपर कटोरी xxxiv.
He led the 2008 एरिज़ोना Cardinals to Super Bowl XLIII ( the franchise 's first Super कटोरी berth ), and owns the तीन highest single-game passing yardage योग in सुपर कटोरी history.
Warner फिलहाल holds the seventh-highest career passer rating of all-time ( 93.7 ), and the third-highest career पूर्णता percentage in एनएफएल history with 65.5 %.
In 13 career playoff games, warner बाँधने first all-time in completion प्रतिशत ( 66.5 % ), yards per attempt ( 8.55 ), और दूसरी in passer दरजा ( 102.8 ).
he also holds the उच्चतम पूर्णता प्रतिशत for a single game during the नियमित ऋतु, at 92.3 percent ( 24/26 ), on सितंबर 20, 2009, विरूद्ध the Jacksonville jaguars.
he announced उसके रिटायरमेंट on January 29, 2010. < ref name='CNN 2010-01-29 ' >
Janet Kay Ruthven Hagan ( ; born may 26, 1953 ) is the जूनियर United States Senator इससे North कैरोलिना, in office since January 2009.
Previously she परोसा in the North Carolina सीनेट from 1999 to 2009.
वो is a member of the Democratic Party and is viewed as a moderate member of उसके पार्टी.
When Hagan पराजित रिपब्लिकन incumbent Elizabeth Dole in the 2008 संयुक्त States Senate चुनाव, she became the पहला woman to शिकस्त an incumbent woman in a सीनेट election.
The Heisman Memorial Trophy Award ( प्रायः known colloquially as the Heisman ट्रॉफी or the Heisman ), is awarded annually to the player deemed the सबसे outstanding player in कॉलेजिएट फ़ुटबॉल.
It was निर्मित in 1935 as the Downtown एथलेटिक Club trophy and renamed in 1936 following the मौत of the क्लबों 's athletic director, John Heisman ( former Brown University और University of पेन्सिलवेनिया player ; सिर फ़ुटबॉल coach at Oberlin कॉलेज, auburn University, Clemson University, Rice विश्वविद्यालयों, और the विश्वविद्यालयों of Pennsylvania ; and football, basketball, and baseball head coach and एथलेटिक director at Georgia तकनीक ).
The award is प्रस्तुत by the Heisman ट्रॉफी Trust in early December before the postseason कटोरी games.
It is the oldest of several overall awards in college football, including the Maxwell Award, वाल्टर Camp Award, and the AP खिलाड़ी of the Year.
The Heisman and the ap खिलाड़ी of the साल हैं the तभी awards to honor the most outstanding खिलाड़ी, जबकि the मैक्सवेल Award and Walter Camp पुरस्कार recognize the best player, and the Archie Griffin Award recognizes the most valuable खिलाड़ी.
the United राष्ट्र Command ( UNC ) is the unified command structure लिये the multinational सैन्य forces supporting the Republic of Korea ( South कोरियाई or rok ) during and after the कोरियाई War.
After सैनिकों of the Democratic लोगों 's गणतंत्र of Korea ( North Korea or DPRK ) invaded South Korea on June 25, 1950, the United Nations Security Council adopted रेज़ोल्यूशन 82 कॉलिंग on North कोरियाई to cease hostilities and withdraw to the 38th समानांतर.
On June 27, 1950, it adopted Resolution 83, recommending that members of the United राष्ट्र provide assistance to the गणतंत्र of Korea `` to repel the हथियारबंद आक्रमण and to restore अंतरराष्ट्रीय peace and सुरक्षा to the area ''.
Security परिषद Resolution 84, अपनाया on July 7, 1950, recommended that members providing सैन्य forces and अन्य सहायता to दक्षिण Korea `` make ऐसे शक्तियां and other सहायता available to a unified command under the United राज्य of अमेरिका ''.
Although the resolutions suggested the forces under the UNC यहूद `` United Nations forces '', and United Nations itself could be considered a belligerent, in अभ्यास the United Nations exercised no कंट्रोल over the combat forces, which यहूद controlled by the संयुक्त राज्य.
Most observers concluded कि the forces under the unc यहूद not in विधि संयुक्त Nations troops, and the acts of the unc यहूद not the अधिनियमों of the United राष्ट्र.
the unc can be regarded as an गठबंधन of नेशनल armies, ऑपरेटिंग under the collective right of self-defense.
On अगस्त 29, 1950, the British Commonwealth 's 27th Infantry ब्रिगेड arrived at Busan to join the UNC, जिससे until then included only rok और u.S. forces.
The 27th ब्रिगेड moved into the naktong River लकीर वेस्ट of Daegu.
Troop इकाई from अन्य देशों of the un followed in rapid succession ; Australia, belgian संयुक्त Nations Command, Canada, कोलंबिया, इथियोपिया, France, Greece, Luxembourg, the नीदरलैंड्स, New जीलैंड, the फिलीपीन, Thailand and तुर्कों.
the Union of South Africa provided air इकाई which लड़ा alongside the air forces of अन्य सदस्य nations.
Denmark, इण्डिया, नार्वे, और स्वीडन provided medical units.
Italy provided a hospital, भी though it was not a UN member.
The संयुक्त Nations Command और the Chinese-North Korean कमांड signed the कोरियाई Armistice Agreement on 27 July 1953, समाप्ति the भारी लड़.
the armistice agreement स्थापित the Military armistice आयोग ( MAC ), consisting of प्रतिनिधि of the दो signatories, to supervise the implementation of the armistice शर्तें.
The North korean-chinese मैक has been replaced by panmumjon प्रतिनिधि under exclusive North Korean प्रबन्धन.
Regular meetings have महरूम रोका, हालांकि ड्यूटी अधिकारियों of संयुक्त सुरक्षा क्षेत्रफल, commonly ज्ञात as the Truce Village of Panmunjom, from प्रत्येक side meet regularly.
lincoln हाइट्स is an अमरीकी परिवार drama टेलीविज़न श्रेणी परिचय एडी सटन, a Mission Vista पुलिस officer जो moves his परिवार वापस to his old neighborhood, lincoln Heights, to start a नई life और to help out his old neighborhood.
it is a dangerous place to raise a परिवार, and through the many ट्रायल the परिवार goes through, they जल्द learn that settling in is not as easy as it seems.
While अधिकारी Sutton struggles to cope साथ प्रत्येक दिन जीवन as a गली cop in Los एंजिल्स, his kids कोशिश to fit in at their new स्कूलों और with उनके new पड़ोसी.
the दिखाएँ premiered January 8, 2007 on the एबीसी Family संजाल with 13 एपीसोड ordered लिये the first season.
it was स्वीकृत for a second season, जिससे premiered सितंबर 4, 2007.
वैनेसा Hudgens ' song, Say OK had been प्रयुक्त in a commercial to promote the second season.
To promote the तीसरा ऋतु, वे दिखाया clips of Cassie और Charles 's relationship to the song, crush by the American Idol 's seventh season runner-up, दाउद Archuleta.
To promote season 4, वे 're using the song, Avalanche by Marie digby.
the show 's थीम song थी written और performed by bassist Stanley Clarke and singer-songwriter blaire Reinhard.
On January 29, 2010, ABC Family घोषित the cancellation of the series बाद चार सीज़न.
A Christian denomination is an identifiable religious body under a common name, ढांचा, and doctrine within christianity.
in the Orthodox tradition, churches are विभाजित प्रायः along जातीय and linguistic lines, into पृथक चर्च and परंपराओं.
technically, divisions between एक समूह and another हैं defined by doctrine और church authority.
Issues such as the nature of यीशु, the authority of apostolic succession, eschatology, and papal primacy separate एक denomination from another.
The Roman कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर is the largest denomination with over 1.1 अरब members, over हाफ of all Christians विश्वव्यापी, making it the largest denomination लिये कोई religion worldwide ( although the गिरिजाघर करता नहीं view itself as a denomination, but as the original pre-denominational church ).
Protestant denominations comprise roughly 38–39 % of ईसाइयों विश्वव्यापी, and together the catholics, Protestants, anglicans, और other closely सम्बन्धित denominations comprise पश्चिमी Christianity.
the पूर्वी Orthodox गिरिजाघर, Oriental परंपरागत चर्च और the Assyrian गिरिजाघर of the ईस्ट are considered पूर्वी Christian denominations.
Western Christian denominations जीतना in Western Europe and its former colonies.
पूर्वी ईसाई denominations are represented mostly in Eastern यूरोपीय, the Middle ईस्ट और North Africa.
ईसाइयों have विभिन्न doctrines about the Church, the देह of faithful कि वे believe थी स्थापित by यीशु मसीह, और कैसा the दैवी church corresponds to ईसाई denominations.
Both the Catholics and the Eastern Orthodox consider प्रत्येक of themselves solely to faithfully represent the One पावन Catholic और अपोस्टोलिक गिरिजाघर to the exclusion of the other.
Protestants अलग from the Catholic गिरिजाघर because of theologies और practices that they considered to be in violation of उनके निर्वचन.
Generally, members of the various denominations acknowledge each अन्य as ईसाइयों, at least to the extent कि they have mutually recognized baptisms और acknowledge historically परंपरागत views including the देवत्व of Jesus और doctrines of sin and salvation, even हालांकि doctrinal और ecclesiological obstacles hinder पूरा नियाज़ between churches.
चूंकि the reforms surrounding Vatican II, the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर has referred to Protestant समुदायों as `` denominations '', while reserving the term `` गिरिजाघर '' for apostolic चर्च, सहित the Eastern Orthodox ( देखिए subsistit in और शाखा सिद्धान्त ).
There हैं however some non-denominational ईसाइयों जो do not follow कोई particular शाखा.
the पांडा ( ailuropoda melanoleuca, lit.
`` black and श्वेत cat-foot '' ), also ज्ञात as the giant पांडा to distinguish it इससे the unrelated red panda, is a bear native to central-western और south पश्चिमी चीन.
it is easily recognized by the large, distinctive black patches around इसके eyes, over the कानों, and आरपार its गोलाकार देह.
Though it belongs to the order carnivora, the panda 's आहार is 99 % बाँसुरी.
pandas in the wild will occasionally eat other grasses, जंगली tubers, or भी मांस in the रूप of birds, rodents or carrion.
In captivity, they may receive honey, eggs, मछली, yams, झाड़ी पत्ते, संतरे, or केले साथ साथ विशेषकर prepared food.
The दानव पांडा lives in a few पहाड़ ranges in central China, mainly in Sichuan प्रांत, but भी in the shaanxi and Gansu provinces.
As a परिणाम of farming, deforestation and other development, the पांडा रै महरूम driven out of the lowland areas where it once जिया.
The पांडा is a संरक्षण reliant endangered species.
a 2007 report shows 239 pandas जीना in captivity inside China and another 27 outside the country.
जंगली जनसांख्यिकी estimates vary ; एक अनुमान shows that there are about 1,590 individuals living in the wild, while a 2006 study via DNA analysis estimated that this फिगर could be as ऊँची as 2,000 to 3,000.
Some reports also दिखाएँ that the क्रमांक of pandas in the जंगली is on the वृद्धि.
however, the आईयूसीएन does not believe there is enough certainty yet to reclassify the species from endangered to vulnerable.
While the dragon has often परोसा as चीन 's national emblem, internationally the पांडा appears at least as commonly.
As such, it is becoming widely प्रयुक्त within चीन in international contexts, for example the five fuwa mascots of the Beijing ओलंपिक.
The पतंग Runner is a 2007 American drama film directed by Marc forster based on the novel of the same name by Khaled Hosseini.
It tells the story of Amir, a well-to-do boy from the वज़ीर akbar खान ज़िला of काबुल, who is tormented by the guilt of abandoning his friend Hassan, the बेटे of उसके father 's Hazara servant.
The story is set against a backdrop of उग्र कार्यक्रम, from the fall of the monarchy in अफगानिस्तान through the सोवियत सैन्य हस्तक्षेप, the mass exodus of Afghan शरणार्थियों to Pakistan and the United States, और the Taliban शासन.
हालांकि most of the film is set in अफगानिस्तान, ये parts were mostly शॉट in Kashgar, China, due to the dangers of filming in अफगानिस्तान at the समय.
The majority of the film 's dialogue is in Dari, साथ the remainder spoken in English.
the child actors हैं देशी अध्यक्षों, but अनेक adult अभिनेताओं था to learn जमींदारी.
Filming wrapped up on दिसम्बर 21, 2006, and the फिल्मी was expected to be released on November 2, 2007.
however, after concern for the safety of the यंग अभिनेताओं in the film due to fears of violent reprisals to the यौन nature of some scenes in जिससे they appear, its रिलीज date थी pushed वापस six सप्ताह to दिसम्बर 14, 2007.
The Kite धावक was released on dvd on कूच 25, 2008.
A HD dvd release was announced लिये the same date, but was रद्द following the स्वरूप 's demise.
The film was मनोनीत लिये the Golden ग्लोब Award for Best Foreign Language Film in 2007.
The फिल्मी 's स्कोर by Alberto इग्लेसियस was मनोनीत for बेहतरीन असली Score at the Golden ग्लोब्स and the अकादमी Awards.
the वैधता of cannabis varies from देश to देश.
कब्ज़ा of कैनबिस is illegal in most देशों और has been since the शुरूआत of widespread cannabis निषेध in the लेट 1930s.
however, many countries have decriminalized the कब्ज़ा of small quantities of cannabis, particularly in North अमेरिका, दक्षिण America and Europe.
furthermore, कब्ज़ा is legal or effectively विधिक in the Netherlands, North Korea and would be in the U.S. states of कोलोराडो और वॉशिंगटन if it यहूद नहीं for federal विधि, जिससे governs व्यक्तियों in all states.
The औषधीय use of cannabis is legal in a क्रमांक of देशों, including Canada, the चेक Republic and Israel.
While federal विधि in the United States bans सब sale और possession of cannabis, प्रवर्तन varies widely at the state स्तर और some states have established औषधीय marijuana कार्यक्रम in कि contradict संघीय law ; दो राज्य ( कोलोराडो and वॉशिंगटन ) have repealed उनके कानून prohibiting the recreational उपयोग of cannabis and replaced them with a regulatory regime, भी contrary to federal statute.
Some देशों have laws कि are not as vigorously prosecuted as अन्य but, अलावा from the countries कि offer access to medical marijuana, most countries have various दंड ranging from lenient to बहुत severe.
Some infractions are taken more seriously in some countries than अन्य in regard to the cultivation, use, कब्ज़ा or ट्रांसफ़र of कैनबिस लिये recreational use.
a few jurisdictions have lessened penalties for कब्ज़ा of small quantities of कैनबिस, making it दंडनीय by confiscation and a ठीक, बल्कि than imprisonment.
कुछ क्षेत्राधिकारs/ ड्रग न्यायालयों use अनिवार्य उपचार programs for young or बारंबार users, with freedom from narcotic drugs as the लक्ष्य and a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use लिये औषधीय उद्देश्य.
There हैं भी changes in a अधिक restrictive दिशा as in कनाडा.
ड्रग परीक्षण to detect cannabis are increasingly common in many countries and have resulted in jail वाक्य और people losing their कार्य.
however, सरल possession can carry long कारावास sentences in कुछ देशों, particularly in भाग of ईस्ट एशिया and southeast एशिया where the बिक्री of कैनबिस may सीसे to a sentence of life in prison or भी execution.
Loxahatchee is a community located in Palm Beach काउंटी, Florida, संयुक्त राज्य.
it is located in the areas north of Wellington and west and northwest of Royal Palm Beach, Florida और approximately west of वेस्ट ताड़ Beach.
Loxahatchee is also the नाम of the पोस्ट दफ्तर that serves इस क्षेत्रफल, which is अंतर्गत the zip code of 33470.
The नाम Loxahatchee means `` कछुआ नदी. ''
Loxahatchee is स्तिथ within the भारतीय trails सुधार ज़िला and the loxahatchee groves Water Control ज़िला.
Lion देश safari, a drive-through safari park, is located in Loxahatchee.
In 2006, the state of फ्लोरिडा approved incorporation of part of loxahatchee as the Town of loxahatchee Groves to become the 38th municipality in ताड़ Beach County.
The प्रमुख कारण for incorporating was to better protect the area from encroaching विकास और to बचाना the rural character of the पड़ोस.
शायद the सबसे ग्रामीण क्षेत्रफल भीतर a close निकटता to वेस्ट Palm बीच, साथ lot sizes range इससे 1-20 acres.
साथ साथ The acreage, it is notable लिये ढीला जमीन restrictions and the native और exotic animal presence is काफी notable.
Seminole Ridge High School serves the क्षेत्रफल.
The Canadian Citizenship परीक्षण is a परीक्षण, administered by Citizenship and आव्रजन Canada ( सीआईसी ), that is required लिये all applicants लिये Canadian citizenship who हैं aged between 18 और 54 और who मिलें the basic requirements for नागरिकता.
the परीक्षण is available in दोनो फ्रेंच और अंग्रेज़ी, the official भाषाएं of कनाडा.
पुनर्जागरण क्रूज़, originally founded in 1989 owned by fearnley & Eger Rederi in ओस्लो - Norway, later purchased by Edward rudner ( संस्थापक of alamo Car rental ) as the company faltered दौरान the गल्फ War.
They operated year-round cruise itineraries to the Mediterranean, the Greek isles, tahiti और the South Pacific, उत्तरी Europe and Scandinavia.
the कम्पनी ceased operations on 25 September 2001 और accommodated up to 220,000 अतिथि in 2000.
While the कम्पनी had been in poor वित्तीय health for quite कुछ समय, the economic decline resulting इससे the September 11th आतंकवादी attacks हैं credited with the demise of इस cruise line.
the बेड़े is listed अंतर्गत सूची of cruise ships.
It was headquartered in फोर्ट Lauderdale, Florida.
epithelium is one of the four मौलिक प्रकार of animal tissue, along with connective ऊतक, मांसपेशी tissue and nervous ऊतक.
Epithelial tissues line the cavities and surfaces of structures throughout the देह, and भी form many glands.
Functions of epithelial कोशिकाएं include स्राव, selective absorption, सुरक्षा, transcellular हस्तांतरण और detection of sensation.
in Greek `` ἐπί '' ( `` epi '' ) means `` on '' or `` upon '', and `` θηλή '' ( `` thēlē '' ) means `` nipple ''.
Epithelial layers are avascular, so they जरूर प्राप्त nourishment via diffusion of substances इससे the underlying संयोजी tissue, through the basement membrane.
epithelia can भी be व्यवस्थित into clusters of cells that function as exocrine और endocrine ग्रंथियों.
केंट E. Hovind ( born January 15, 1953 ) is an अमरीकी यंग धरती creationist.
Hovind has बोला on creation science and has aimed to मनाना listeners to reject theories of evolution, geophysics, और cosmology in favor of उसके निर्वचन of the उत्पत्ति सृष्टि narrative from the Bible.
Hovind 's views हैं contradicted by वैज्ञानिक evidence and कुछ of उसके ideas have also been criticized by young धरती creationist organizations ऐसे as जवाब in Genesis.
Hovind established the Creation Science Evangelism in 1991, and अक्सर spoke on young Earth creationism at seminars at निजी स्कूलों और चर्च, debates, and on रेडियो और television broadcasts.
Since January 2007, Hovind रै महरूम serving a ten-year prison sentence after होने convicted of 58 federal counts, including 12 tax offenses, one count of obstructing federal एजेंटों, and 45 counts of structuring cash ट्रांजेक्शन.
he is incarcerated at the Federal correctional संस्था at Berlin, New हैम्पशायर.
बहू साथ बिंदी decorated forehead
A बिंदी (, इससे संस्कृत bindu, meaning `` a बूँद, small particle, dot '' ), or a pottu/bottu ( in Tamil, तेलुगु, और मलयालम ) is a forehead decoration worn in दक्षिण एशिया ( particularly India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka and मॉरीशस ) और Southeast Asia.
Traditionally it is a bright dot of red color applied in the center of the माथे बंद to the eyebrows, लकिन it can also consist of a sign or piece of jewelry worn at this location.
The नई यॉर्क gubernatorial election of 2010 was आयोजित on Tuesday, नवम्बर 2, 2010, to elect the Governor of New यॉर्क, to serve a four-year term that began in January 2011.
Incumbent लोकतांत्रिक Governor दाउद Paterson, elected as Lieutenant Governor in 2006 as the कार्यशील mate of former राज्यपाल Eliot Spitzer, chose not to run for a full-term.
On November 2, नई यॉर्क Attorney सामान्य and डेमोक्रेट एंड्रयू Cuomo defeated Republican Carl Paladino.
ग्रीन पार्टी candidate Howie Hawkins received over 57,000 मत, allowing the New यॉर्क Green पार्टी to be सूचीबद्ध on the ballot for the अगला 4 years.
the प्रमुख डाल of Dragon Ball at the end of the manga.
The Dragon Ball manga and anime श्रेणी सुविधाएँ an extensive cast of characters created by Akira Toriyama.
the series takes प्लेस in a fictional universe, the वही as toriyama 's previous श्रेणी Dr. slump, and फ़ॉलो the adventures of martial कलाकार बेटे Goku इससे बाल्यकाल to adulthood as he searches for the seven spheres known as the ड्रैगन गेंदें, used to summon a wish-granting ड्रैगन.
दौरान the कोर्स of the स्टोरी, he मुठभेड़ों allies such as bulma, Yamcha, Kuririn and Trunks, विरोधियों such as tenshinhan, piccolo और Vegeta, and दुश्मनों such as freeza and Cell.
जबकि अनेक of the characters हैं humans with superhuman strength and/or अलौकिक abilities, the डाल also शामिल anthropomorphic animals and बाद, extraterrestrial lifeforms.
The series also शामिल depictions of the आफ्टरलाइफ, साथ अनेक characters होने gods that govern the ब्रह्मांड.
250px
the Comanche are a Plains Indian tribe whose historic territory, ज्ञात as Comancheria, consisted of present दिन eastern New Mexico, southern कोलोराडो, northeastern Arizona, दक्षिणी Kansas, सब of Oklahoma, और सबसे of northwest टेक्सास.
the comanche लोगों हैं enrolled in the federally पहचाना Comanche Nation, in ओक्लाहोमा.
historically, the Comanches यहूद hunter-gatherers साथ a घोड़ा culture.
वहीँ may have महरूम as many as 45,000 Comanches in the late 18th century.
Today, the Comanche Nation Comanche tribal नामांकन numbers 15,191 साथ लगभग 7,763 members residing in the Lawton – फोर्ट Sill and surrounding क्षेत्रों of Southwest Oklahoma.
The Comanche स्वदेश Homecoming Powwow is आयोजित annually in walters, Oklahoma in mid-July.
The comanche spoke the comanche भाषा, a Numic language of the Uto-Aztecan family, sometimes classified as a Shoshone dialect ; however, तभी परिचय 1 % of Comanches speak it आज.
ethan Frome is a novel published in 1911 by the पुलित्जर पुरस्कार -winning American author Edith व्हार्टन.
It is set in the fictitious कस्बा of Starkfield, Massachusetts.
The novel was adapted into a film, Ethan Frome, in 1993.
टाइम्स Square Studios ( TSS ) is an American टेलीविज़न studio स्तिथ in the टाइम्स वर्गाकार neighborhood of the मैनहटन borough of नई यॉर्क City, नई York.
The स्टुडियो is बेहतरीन known as the production home of एबीसी न्यूज ' Good Morning America ( GMA ), a morning न्यूज and talk program और खण्ड for GMA on एबीसी News Now.
the Las Vegas स्ट्रिप संसार of coca-cola संग्रहालय in 2003
coca-cola is a carbonated नरम पेय बेची in stores, restaurants, and vending मशीने in every country मगर क्यूबा and उत्तर कोरियाई.
it is उत्पादित by The Coca-Cola कम्पनी of Atlanta, जॉर्जिया, and is often referred to simply as Coke ( a registered trademark of The coca-cola कम्पनी in the United राज्य चूंकि March 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a patent medicine जब it थी invented in the लेट 19th सदी by जॉन Pemberton, Coca-Cola थी bought out by बिजनेसमैन Asa griggs candler, जिनकी marketing tactics led Coke to its दबदबा of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century.
The कम्पनी produces concentrate, which is तब बेची to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the world.
The bottlers, who hold territorially exclusive contracts with the company, produce समाप्त उत्पाद in डिब्बे and bottles from the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners.
The bottlers तब sell, वितरित और merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores और vending machines.
Such bottlers include coca-cola उद्यमों, which is the largest single Coca-Cola bottler in North अमेरिका and पश्चिमी यूरोपीय.
The Coca-Cola Company भी बिकता concentrate लिये सोडा fountains to major restaurants and खाना service distributors.
the coca-cola कम्पनी रै, on अवसर, introduced अन्य cola पेय under the Coke ब्रांड name.
the most common of these is आहार कोक, with others सहित caffeine-free Coca-Cola, Diet Coke Caffeine-Free, Coca-Cola Cherry, coca-cola Zero, Coca-Cola वैनिला, and special versions with lemon, lime or coffee.
Based on Interbrand 's बेहतरीन global ब्रांड 2011, coca-cola was the world 's most मूल्यवान brand.
Types of bar-lines
in musical notation, a bar ( or measure ) is a segment of समय defined by a given क्रमांक of बीट्स, each of जिससे हैं आबंटित a particular note value.
Dividing म्यूज़िक into bars provides regular reference अंक to pin पाइंट स्थितियाँ within a piece of म्यूज़िक.
it also makes लिखा music easier to follow, since प्रत्येक bar of स्टाफ symbols can be read और निभाई as a batch.
Typically, a टुकड़ा consists of several bars of the वही length, and in आधुनिक musical notation the क्रमांक of बीट्स in each bar is specified at the beginning of the score by the top number of a time हस्ताक्षर ( ऐसे as 3/4 ), while the नीचे number indicates the note value of the beat ( the ताल has a quarter note value in the 3/4 example ).
the word bar is more common in British English, and the word माप is अधिक आम in American अंग्रेज़ी, although musicians generally understand both usages.
in American English, although the शब्द बार and measure हैं often used interchangeably the correct उपयोग of the word 'bar ' refers only to the लंबवत line itself, while the word 'measure ' refers to the बीट्स contained between bars.
In international usage, it is equally correct to speak of bar संख्याएँ and measure numbers, e.g. ‘bars 9–16’ or ‘mm. 9–16’.
Along the वही lines, it is हिकमत to reserve the abbreviated form ‘bb.
3–4’ इत्यादि. for बीट्स only ; bars should be referred to by नाम in पूरा.
The first metrically complete measure भीतर a टुकड़ा of music is पुकारा ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’.
When the piece begins साथ an anacrusis ( an incomplete measure at the सिर of a piece of music ), ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’ is the following measure.
the 19.9 mw Gemasolar solar संयंत्र in Spain features 15 hours of storage and can supply शक्ति 24 घंटों a दिन.
सौर energy, radiant light और ऊष्मा from the sun, has महरूम harnessed by इंसानो since ancient टाइम्स using a range of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar energy technologies include सौर heating, सौर photovoltaics, सौर थर्मल विद्युत, solar architecture and कृत्रिम photosynthesis, which can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most तात्कालिक energy समस्याएं the संसार अभी faces.
Solar technologies हैं broadly characterized as either passive solar or क्रियाशील सौर depending on the way they capture, बदलें and distribute सौर energy.
Active सौर तकनीकों include the use of photovoltaic panels और solar थर्मल collectors to दोहन the energy.
Passive सौर techniques शामिल orienting a building to the Sun, selecting materials with अनुकूल थर्मल द्रव्यमान or लाइट dispersing गुण, और designing spaces that naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Energy एजेंसी said कि `` the development of सस्ती, inexhaustible and साफ solar उर्जा technologies will have विशाल longer-term लाभ.
It will बढ़ाएँ countries’ energy security through reliance on an स्वदेशी, inexhaustible और mostly import-independent संसाधन, enhance स्थिरता, reduce pollution, lower the costs of mitigating climate change, और रखना चट्टान fuel कीमतें lower than otherwise.
These लाभ are वैश्विक.
Hence the अतिरिक्त costs of the incentives लिये early deployment should be considered learning investments ; they जरूर be wisely खर्च and need to be widely shared ''.
प्राथमिक care may be provided in community health centres.
प्राथमिक care is the स्वास्थ्य care दिए by a health care provider.
Typically this प्रदाता अधिनियमों as the principal पाइंट of परामर्श for patients within a स्वास्थ्य परवाह system and coordinates अन्य specialists कि the रोगी may need.
ऐसे a पेशेवर can be a प्राथमिक care physician, such as a सामान्य practitioner or family physician, or depending on the locality, health प्रणाली संगठन, and रोगी 's discretion, they may see a pharmacist, a physician assistant, a nurse practitioner, a nurse ( such as in the United Kingdom ), a नैदानिक अधिकारी ( ऐसे as in parts of Africa ), or an आयुर्वेदिक or other traditional medicine professional ( such as in भाग of Asia ).
depending on the प्रकृति of the health कंडीशन, मरीजों may then be referred लिये secondary or tertiary care.
`` Ocean Avenue '' is a सोंग recorded by American पॉप punk group yellowcard.
it was released in फ़रवरी 2004 as the second single from Ocean Avenue और the third track.
It is known for bringing them into the mainstream, as it received numerous spins on MTV और increasing radio airplay.
समंदर Avenue is a street in Jacksonville, Florida, the band 's stomping grounds निकट उनके high school, डगलस Anderson स्कूल of the कला, and another गली mentioned in the song, चेरी Street.
The name of Ocean Avenue in jacksonville is actually Beach boulevard.
They बाएँ their असली base behind when they स्थानांतरित to लॉस एंजिल्स.
the song was featured on the Much म्यूज़िक compilation album Big Shiny Tunes 9.
A psychiatrist is a physician जो specializes in psychiatry.
A मनोचिकित्सक specializes in the उपचार of mental disorders.
Psychiatrists are authorized to prescribe medicine, conduct शारीरिक examinations, order और interpret laboratory परीक्षण, use psychotherapy and may अनुक्रम brain imaging studies such as computed टोमोग्राफी ( ct/cat Scan ), चुम्बकीय अनुनाद imaging ( mri ), और positron emission टोमोग्राफी ( PET ) scanning.
भीतर the framework of the संसार Health Organization 's ( WHO ) definition of health as a राज्य of पूरा physical, दिमागी और social well-being, and नहीं merely the अनुपस्थिति of बीमारी or infirmity, reproductive health, or यौन health/hygiene, addresses the reproductive processes, functions and प्रणाली at all चरण of life.
Reproductive स्वास्थ्य, therefore, implies that लोगों हैं able to have a responsible, satisfying और safer sex जीवन and that वे have the capability to reproduce and the freedom to decide if, जब and कैसा often to do so.
One निर्वचन of इस implies that men और women ought to be सूचित of and to have access to सुरक्षित, effective, सस्ती और acceptable methods of birth कंट्रोल ; भी access to appropriate health परवाह services of sexual, reproductive medicine and क्रियान्वयन of स्वास्थ्य शिक्षा programs to stress the महत्व of महिलाओं to go safely through pregnancy and प्रसव could provide युगल with the बेहतरीन chance of having a healthy infant.
On the other hand individuals do फेस inequalities in reproductive स्वास्थ्य services.
Inequalities vary based on socioeconomic औकात, education level, आयु, ethnicity, religion, और resources उपलब्धियाँ in their पर्यावरण.
It is संभावित लिये उदाहरण, कि low income individuals कमी the resources for उचित स्वास्थ्य services और the knowledge to जान what is उचित for maintaining reproductive health.
according to the WHO, `` Reproductive and sexual ill-health accounts लिये 20 % of the वैश्विक burden of ill-health लिये women, and 14 % for men. ''
reproductive health is a part of यौन and reproductive स्वास्थ्य and अधिकारों.
This is a सूची of episodes लिये the Disney Channel original series The Suite Life on Deck, which aired लिये three seasons on Disney चैनल इससे September 26, 2008 to May 6, 2011.
Core 2 is a ब्रांड encompassing a range of इंटेल 's उपभोक्ता 64-bit x86-64 single-, dual-, और quad-core microprocessors आधारित on the Core microarchitecture.
The single- and dual-core models are single- die, whereas the quad-core models comprise two मरता, each containing दो cores, packaged in a multi-chip module.
The introduction of कोर 2 relegated the pentium brand to the mid-range market, and reunified लैपटॉप और desktop cpu lines, which previously had been divided into the Pentium 4, Pentium d, and Pentium M ब्रांड्स.
The कोर 2 brand was introduced on 27 July 2006, comprising the सोलो ( single-core ), Duo ( dual-core ), Quad ( quad-core ), and in 2007, the चरम ( दुआl- or quad-core cpu for enthusiasts ) subbrands.
Intel Core 2 processors with vPro प्रौद्योगिकी ( designed for businesses ) include the dual-core और quad-core branches.
The Super कटोरी is the annual championship game of the नेशनल Football League ( NFL ), the highest level of पेशेवर American football in the संयुक्त States, culminating a season कि begins in the late summer of the पिछला पंचांग साल.
The Super कटोरी uses Roman numerals to identify each game, rather than the year in जिससे it is held.
For example, सुपर Bowl I was played on जनवरी 15, 1967, following the 1966 regular season, जबकि सुपर Bowl xlvii थी played on फ़रवरी 3, 2013, following the 2012 season.
the game थी created as भाग of a merger agreement between the एनएफएल और its then-rival league, the American Football League ( AFL ).
It was agreed कि the two leagues ' चैंपियन teams होता खेल in an AFL–NFL World चैंपियनशिप खेल until the विलय थी to officially begin in 1970.
After the merger, each लीग थी redesignated as a `` conference ``, and the खेल was then played between the conference champions.
फिलहाल, the National Football सम्मेलन ( NFC ) leads the श्रेणी साथ 25 विन्स to 22 wins for the अमरीकी Football सम्मेलन ( AFC ).
the दिन on which the सुपर Bowl is निभाई, अभी considered by some a de facto American नेशनल अवकाश, is पुकारा `` Super कटोरी संडे ``.
it is the second-largest day for U.S. खाना consumption, after Thanksgiving Day.
in addition, the सुपर Bowl has frequently been the most देखी American television broadcast of the year.
सुपर कटोरी xlv, played in 2011, became the most-watched American टेलीविज़न program in history, drawing an औसत दर्शक of 111 million viewers और लेने over the spot held by the पिछला साल 's Super Bowl, which itself था taken over the # 1 spot held for twenty-eight सालो by the फाइनल episode of m*a*s*h.
The Super कटोरी is भी among the सबसे देखी sporting events in the संसार, almost सब होने उत्तर American ऑडियंस, and is दूसरी to संघ फ़ुटबॉल ’s UEFA Champions League final as the most देखी सालाना sporting इवेंट विश्वव्यापी.
क्युकी of its high viewership, commercial airtime during the Super कटोरी ब्रॉडकास्ट is the सबसे expensive of the year.
due to the high cost of निवेश in advertising on the Super कटोरी, कंपनियाँ regularly develop their most expensive advertisements for this broadcast.
as a result, watching और discussing the broadcast 's commercials has become a significant पहलू of the इवेंट.
In addition, many popular गायकों and संगीतकारों have performed during the event 's pre-game and halftime ceremonies क्युकी of the exposure.
Fiona is a feminine given नाम.
The name Fiona was invented, और first प्रयुक्त, by the Scottish कवि James macpherson ( 1736–96 ), लेखक of the ossian poems, which he claimed were translations from ancient Gaelic sources ( sources, when challenged, he never उत्पादित ).
the नाम was subsequently used as a pseudonym by William शार्प ( 1855–1905 ), who authored several रोमांटिक works अंतर्गत the नाम `` फिओना macleod ''.
the नाम has since become लोकप्रिय in इंग्लैण्ड, Scotland and Ireland.
The name is माना to be a latinised रूप of the गैलिक word fionn, अर्थ `` white '', `` मेला ''.
the name Fiona is also sometimes used as an Anglicisation of the irish-language नाम Fíona, although ये names are otherwise unrelated ( as fíona is derived from an तत्व अर्थ `` बेल '' ).
There is also a modern tendency to equate the प्रामाणिक स्कॉटिश Gaelic feminine नाम Fionnghal साथ Fiona.
the name Fiona is rising in लोकप्रियता particularly in जर्मनी -speaking देशों.
Fiona was the 49th most popular name लिये baby girls born in 2008 in जर्मनी.
Fiona थी tied लिये तीसरा प्लेस in the रैंकिंग of most popular names for baby girls born in the छोटा principality of liechtenstein in 2008.
The नाम थी the 347th most popular नाम for लड़कियों born in the संयुक्त States in 2008, where it रै ranked among the top 1,000 most लोकप्रिय names लिये लड़कियों since 1990 and among the top 500 since 1999.
the नाम फिओना रै been विशेषकर लोकप्रिय लिये लड़कियों of Asian or प्रशांत Islander descent in New York City, where फिओना ranked as the ninth most लोकप्रिय नाम लिये लड़कियों from those groups in 2007.
Many भाषाएं are प्रयुक्त, or historically have been प्रयुक्त in the United राज्य.
The सबसे commonly प्रयुक्त language is English.
There are भी अनेक भाषाएं indigenous to उत्तर अमेरिका or to U.S. राज्य or holdings in the प्रशांत region.
Languages brought to the country by colonists or आप्रवासियों from Europe, एशिया, or अन्य भाग of the world make up a large portion of the भाषाएं currently used ; अनेक languages, सहित creoles and sign languages, have also developed in the संयुक्त States.
Approximately 337 भाषाएं are spoken or signed by the population, of which 176 हैं indigenous to the area.
fifty-two languages formerly spoken in the country 's territory are now extinct.
the किस्में of अंग्रेज़ी spoken in the United राज्य is known as अमरीकी English.
English is the de facto नेशनल भाषा of the United States, साथ 80 % of the जनसांख्यिकी claiming it as a mother tongue, and कुछ 95 % claiming to बोलो it `` well '' or `` बहुत खूब ''.
However, no official language exists at the federal level.
There have been अनेक प्रस्ताव to make अंग्रेज़ी the national language in amendments to आव्रजन reform bills, लकिन none of these बिल्स रै become law with the amendment intact.
The situation is quite varied at the state and territorial levels, साथ कुछ states mirroring the संघीय policy of adopting no official language in a de jure क्षमता, अन्य adopting English alone, अन्य officially adopting English as खूब as लोकल भाषाएं, and still others adopting a policy of de facto bilingualism.
स्पेनी is the second सबसे common language in the देश, and is spoken by over 12 % of the जनसांख्यिकी.
the United राज्य holds the world 's पांचवां largest spanish-speaking population, outnumbered only by Mexico, स्पेन, कोलंबिया, और Argentina.
Throughout the Southwestern United राज्य, long-established Spanish-speaking communities coexist with large संख्याएँ of अधिक recent hispanophone immigrants.
Although अनेक नई लैटिन अमरीकी immigrants हैं less than धाराप्रवाह in अंग्रेज़ी, nearly सब second-generation Hispanic अमेरिकी speak अंग्रेज़ी fluently, जबकि only परिचय half still speak स्पेनी.
According to the 2000 us census, people of जर्मनी ancestry मेक up the largest single ethnic समूह in the United States, and the जर्मनी language ranks पांचवां.
इतालवी, पॉलिश, और French हैं still widely बोला among populations descending from आप्रवासियों इससे those countries in the early 20th century, but the use of ये languages is dwindling as the older generations die.
रूसी is also बोला by अप्रवासी populations.
tagalog and वियतनामी have over one लाख अध्यक्षों each in the संयुक्त States, almost entirely within हाल immigrant populations.
दोनो languages, along साथ the varieties of the Chinese language, जापानी, और कोरियाई, are अभी प्रयुक्त in elections in Alaska, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, Hawaii, इलिनोइस, New यॉर्क, टेक्सास, and Washington.
Native अमरीकी languages हैं बोला in छोटी pockets of the देश, लकिन these populations हैं अवरोहण, और the languages are almost never widely used outside of reservations.
Hawaiian, although having few देशी speakers, is an official language साथ साथ English at the state स्तर in हवाई.
the state government of louisiana offers सेवाएं and दस्तावेज़ in French, as does New Mexico in स्पेनी.
Besides English, Spanish, French, German, Navajo और अन्य Native American languages, all other languages are usually learned from immigrant पूर्वजो that आए after the समय of स्वतंत्रता or learned through some रूप of शिक्षा.
1990 's Pontiac ग्रैंड Am सेडान fender and quarter panel
On an automobile, a quarter panel ( or rear wing as it is known in अंग्रेजों English ) is usually माना the body फलक जिससे goes between the rear द्वार and the trunk और typically wraps around the व्हील खूब ; however, the समान सामने section फेंडर ( vehicle ), between the द्वार and the हुड, is sometimes incorrectly referred to as a quarter फलक.
The क्वार्टर panel is typically बना of Sheet metal, but is sometimes बना of fiberglass or fiber-reinforced प्लास्टिक ; although, इस varies with different makes और models.
A क्वार्टर panel is typically a welded on घटक of the uni-body ढांचा or Monocoque.
Replacement of a चादर मेटल quarter panel typically requires it to be काटें off the vehicle and a replacement भाग to be welded ( or sometimes bonded ) to the गाडी.
due to this ऊँची राशि of specialized labor, a क्वार्टर panel may प्रायः be repaired rather than replaced by hammering out the damage, and a body filler sometimes referred to as bondo to be applied to finalize the असली सतह.
Shropshire ( or ; alternatively Salop ; abbreviated, in छपाई only, shrops ) is a काउंटी in the West Midlands प्रदेश of England.
it सीमायें वेल्स to the west, चेशायर to the उत्तर, Staffordshire to the east, वॉस्टरशायर to the south-east and Herefordshire to the south.
A unitary authority ( Shropshire Council ) थी निर्मित on 1 April 2009, taking over from the पिछला county council and 5 ज़िला councils, and covers सबसे of the county.
The borough of Telford और wrekin has been a पृथक एकात्मक authority since 1998 लकिन continues to be included in the ceremonial काउंटी.
The county 's population और economy is centred on पाँच towns : the काउंटी कस्बा of Shrewsbury, जिससे is culturally and historically important और is स्तिथ in the केन्द्र of the county ; telford, a new town in the ईस्ट which was constructed around a number of older towns, most notably वेलिंगटन, dawley और Madeley, which is today the सबसे populous ; and Oswestry in the north-west, bridgnorth just to the south of Telford, and Ludlow in the south.
The काउंटी has अनेक further market कस्बों, including Whitchurch in the उत्तर, Newport बस to the north-east of Telford, and मार्केट drayton in the north-east of the county.
The Ironbridge gorge area is a UNESCO संसार विरासत Site, covering Ironbridge, coalbrookdale और a part of Madeley.
There are, additionally, other notable historic industrial sites located around the county, such as at Shrewsbury, Broseley, snailbeach and highley as well as the Shropshire Union Canal.
The Shropshire Hills Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty कवर about a quarter of the काउंटी, मुख्यतः in the south.
Shropshire is one of England 's most rural and sparsely आबादी counties, साथ the population घनत्व of the shropshire Council area being just 91/km2 ( 337/sq mi ).
the wrekin is एक of the most प्रसिद्ध प्राकृतिक लैंडमार्क in the county, though the उच्चतम hills हैं the clee Hills, stiperstones और the long mynd.
Wenlock किनारे is another significant geographical and geological landmark.
in the low-lying northwest of the काउंटी ( and overlapping the किनारा साथ Wales ) is the Fenn 's, Whixall and Bettisfield mosses National Nature Reserve, one of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण and बेहतरीन preserved bogs in ब्रिटेन.
the River severn, Great ब्रिटेन 's longest river, runs through the county, exiting into वॉस्टरशायर via the Severn Valley.
shropshire is landlocked, और with an area of, is England 's largest inland county.
The काउंटी flower is the round-leaved sundew.
For Eurostat उद्देश्य, the काउंटी ( कम the unitary district of telford and wrekin ) is a nuts 3 प्रदेश ( कोड UKG22 ).
The two Shropshire एकात्मक areas ( covering all of the ceremonial काउंटी ), together with the authorities covering the ceremonial काउंटी of Staffordshire, comprise the `` Shropshire and staffordshire '' NUTS 2 प्रदेश.
The Big बंग Theory cast at Comic कॉन 2009, from left : कुणाल Nayyar, साइमन Helberg, kaley Cuoco, जिम Parsons, and Johnny galecki
The American sitcom The बिग बंग Theory, created and executive उत्पादित by Chuck Lorre and विधेयक prady, premiered on CBS on September 24, 2007.
The दिखाएँ centers on पाँच characters : roommates Sheldon कूपर and Leonard Hofstadter, दो caltech physicists ; Penny, a वेट्रेस और aspiring actress who lives आरपार the हॉल ; और Leonard and Sheldon 's मित्रों और co-workers aerospace engineer Howard Wolowitz, and astrophysicist Rajesh koothrappali.
over समय, अनेक supporting characters have महरूम promoted to अभिनीत roles : लेस्ली Winkle ( season 1 पुनरावर्ती ; season 2 regular ; ऋतु 3 अतिथि ), a physicist सहयोगी, और, at different times, a lover of दोनो Leonard और हावर्ड ; Bernadette Rostenkowski-Wolowitz ( ऋतु 3 recurring ; season 4-present regular ), a microbiologist, Howard 's fiancée और subsequent wife, and पूर्व part-time waitress alongside पैनी ; neuroscientist Amy Farrah Fowler ( season 3 अतिथि ; season 4 recurring ; ऋतु 4-present regular ), जो joins the group बाद being matched to शेल्डन on a dating website ; and कॉमिक book store-owner, Stuart Bloom ( सीज़न 2–5 पुनरावर्ती ; season 6-present regular ), जो replaces हावर्ड as Raj 's बेहतरीन friend when Howard is in space.
The दिखाएँ also सुविधाएँ numerous supporting वर्ण, each of whom plays a prominent role in a small समूह of एपीसोड.
The a-team is an अमरीकी action-adventure television series, running from 1983 to 1987, परिचय a fictional group of ex– United States फौज खास शक्तियां कर्मियों जो work as soldiers of fortune, while on the चलाएं इससे the फौज after being branded as war अपराधियों for a `` crime they किया n't कमिट ``.
A feature film आधारित on the series थी released by 20th Century फॉक्स on June 11, 2010.
A comic book series, A-Team : Shotgun विवाह, began March 9, 2010.
Diana प्रिंस is a fictional character appearing regularly in कहानियां प्रकाशित by DC Comics.
वो debuted in सनसनी कॉमिक्स # 1 ( जनवरी 1942 ) और serves as the civilian and रहस्य identity of the superhero Wonder स्त्री.
The character was निर्मित by Charles moulton and हैरी G. पीटर.
Wat Phra Kaew, Bangkok, थाईलैंड
There is no official राज्य religion in the Thai constitution, जिससे guarantees religious स्वतंत्रता for all थाई citizens, though the king is required by law to be Buddhist.
According to the last जनसांख्यिकी ( 2000 ) 94.6 % of thais are Buddhists of the Theravada परंपरा.
Muslims are the दूसरी largest religious समूह in Thailand at 4.6 %.
Thailand 's southernmost provinces - Pattani, yala, narathiwat और part of songkhla chumphon have प्रबल Muslim populations, consisting of both ethnic Thai और मलय.
The दक्षिणी tip of थाईलैंड is mostly ethnic Malays.
Christians, mainly catholics, represent 0.7 % of the population.
a small but influential जातियाँ of Sikhs in Thailand और कुछ Hindus भी live in the country 's cities, and are heavily सगाई in खुदरा commerce.
वहीँ is also a small यहूदी community in Thailand, dating वापस to the 17th सदी.
Since 2001, Muslim कार्यकर्ताओं, generally described by the Thai government as terrorists or separatists, have rallied against the सेंट्रल government because of alleged भ्रष्टाचार और जातीय पूर्वाग्रह on the part of officials.
Thailand 's Department of Religion, फिलहाल अंतर्गत the Ministry of Culture, is formally जिम्मेदार for the पंजीकरण of religious groups in Thailand url_http which थाम properties through legally स्थापित foundations.
It has oversight, along with the Immigration पुलिस, over the कार्य permits of प्रचारकों जो हैं `` expatriate religious मजदूर '' of सब धर्मों.
A मान added tax ( VAT ) is a रूप of खपत tax.
From the perspective of the खरीदार, it is a कर on the purchase दाम.
From कि of the seller, it is a कर तभी on the value added to a उत्पाद, सामग्री, or service, from an हिसाब point of view, by इस stage of its manufacture or वितरण.
The निर्माता remits to the government the difference between ये two amounts, and retains the rest लिये themselves to offset the कर वे had previously सशुल्क on the inputs.
the value added to a उत्पाद by or साथ a business is the बिक्री दाम charged to इसके customer, ऋण the लागत of materials and other taxable inputs.
A VAT is जैसे a बिक्री कर in कि ultimately only the end उपभोक्ता is taxed.
It differs from the बिक्री कर in that, with the latter, the कर is collected और remitted to the सरकारी only once, at the पाइंट of खरीदें by the end consumer.
With the VAT, संग्रहण, remittances to the सरकारी, and क्रेडिट for taxes already सशुल्क occur each time a business in the supply chain purchases उत्पाद.
a रेफरी calling a high-sticking penaltyhigh
-sticking is the name of दो infractions in the खेल of बर्फ हॉकी that may occur when a player intentionally or inadvertently plays साथ his or her stick ऊपर the ऊँचाई of the shoulders or ऊपर the cross bar of a hockey लक्ष्य.
इस can result in a stoppage of play or in a दंड.
in the rules of the National Hockey League, high-sticking is पारिभाषित as a penalty in Rule 60 और as a non-penalty foul in Rule 80.
A stoppage in play results if a high stick comes in contact साथ the पक और the team who touched it regains control of the puck.
however, play प्रायः continues if a खिलाड़ी touches the पक साथ a ऊँची स्टिक and the opposing टोली gains control of the पक.
If the पक goes into the opposing net बाद coming into contact साथ a ऊँची स्टिक, the लक्ष्य is disallowed.
the स्तर at which a stick is considered too high लिये a लक्ष्य is the crossbar of the जाल.
However, if a खिलाड़ी knocks the पक into उसके own net साथ a high stick, the goal is allowed.
A penalty is assessed if a खिलाड़ी हमलों another खिलाड़ी with a ऊँची stick.
The player is given a minor penalty जबतक his high stick caused an चोट, in which case the रेफरी has the option to assess a double-minor, major or मैच दंड.
it is the referee 's discretion जिससे दंड to assess : the नियम calls for a double minor for an accidental injury, or a match दंड लिये a deliberate attempt to injure ( whether the opposition खिलाड़ी was दरअसल घायल ).
Injury is प्रायः decided by the ऊँची स्टिक causing bleeding, but the उपस्थिति of blood करता नहीं automatically mean an extra penalty is awarded.
Some referees have been known to award an अतिरिक्त दंड without the presence of blood if the referee determines कि the injury sustained थी sufficient to वारंट a double-minor penalty.
ठेठ आधुनिक memory card reader, compatible साथ अनेक आम formats
a memory कार्ड reader is a device, typically having a usb इंटरफ़ेस, लिये accessing the आंकड़ा on a memory कार्ड ऐसे as a CompactFlash ( CF ), Secure Digital ( SD ) or MultiMediaCard ( MMC ).
Most card पाठक भी प्रस्ताव write capability, and together with the card, this can function as a pen ड्राइव.
Some printers and personal कंप्यूटर have a built-in कार्ड reader.
A multi कार्ड reader is प्रयुक्त for communication with more than one type of flash मेमोरी card.
Multi card readers do नहीं have built-in मेमोरी क्षमता, लकिन हैं able to accept multiple प्रकार and शैलियाँ of मेमोरी cards.
The क्रमांक of compatible memory cards varies from रीडर to reader and can include more than 20 different प्रकार.
The क्रमांक of अलग memory cards that a मल्टी कार्ड रीडर can accept is expressed as x-in-1, with x being a figure of मेरिट indicating the क्रमांक of memory cards accepted, ऐसे as 35-in-1.
There are तीन categories of card readers sorted by the type and quantity of the card slots : सिंगल card रीडर ( e.g. 1x SD-only ), multi कार्ड reader ( e.g. 9-in-1 ) and श्रेणी card reader ( e.g. 4x sd only ).
कुछ kinds of memory ताश with their own USB functions do not need the card रीडर, ऐसे as the Intelligent स्टिक memory card, जिससे can प्लग सीधे into a USB स्लॉट.
The USB device class प्रयुक्त is 0x08.
धमकाना is detrimental to विद्यार्थी ' well-being and development.
Bullying is the उपयोग of force or coercion to गाली or intimidate others.
The behavior can be habitual and involve an imbalance of social or शारीरिक power.
it can include verbal harassment or threat, शारीरिक उत्पीड़न or coercion and may be directed repeatedly towards particular victims, शायद on grounds of रेस, धर्म, लिंग, sexuality, or ability.
If bullying is done by a समूह, it is called mobbing.
The victim of धमकाना is sometimes referred to as a `` निशाना ''.
धमकाना can be defined in अनेक अलग ways.
The uk currently रै no विधिक definition of धमकाना, while some U.S. states have laws against it.
Bullying consists of three मौलिक types of गाली – emotional, मौखिक, और शारीरिक.
It typically involves subtle विधि of coercion such as intimidation.
Bullying सीमाएँ from simple one-on-one bullying to more जटिल धमकाना in जिससे the bully may have एक or more `` lieutenants '' who may seem to be willing to assist the primary bully in उसके or her धमकाना activities.
Bullying in स्कूल और the workplace is भी referred to as पीर गाली.
Robert W. Fuller has analyzed धमकाना in the context of rankism.
A bullying culture can develop in कोई कॉन्टेक्स्ट in जिससे human beings interact साथ प्रत्येक अन्य.
This includes school, church, family, the workplace, home, and पड़ोस.
Happy slapping in the Instituto Regional Federico errázuriz, Santa Cruz, Chile
Laura Bush and Rae leigh bradbury ( formerly लापता ) on April 4, 2007, in Austin, टेक्सास, after the 8-year-old introduced Mrs. Bush दौरान announcement of the future opening of the Texas Regional Office of the नेशनल बीच for लापता and शोषित Children.
Rae leigh थी the पहला चाइल्ड in the U.S. to be recovered as a परिणाम of an एम्बर चेतावनी when she was 8 सप्ताह बूढ़ा in नवम्बर 1998.
an AMBER Alert or a चाइल्ड Abduction Emergency ( SAME code : CAE ) is a child abduction alert प्रणाली originating in 1996, now employed in 9 देशों.
AMBER is officially a backronym for अमेरिका 's लापता : प्रसारण Emergency Response, named for एम्बर Hagerman, a 9-year-old abducted and murdered in Arlington, Texas in 1996.
Alternate क्षेत्रीय alert names were once used ; in जॉर्जिया, `` लेवी 's कॉल '' ( नामित after Levi Frady ) ; in हवाई, `` maile एम्बर चेतावनी '' ( बाद maile गिल्बर्ट ) ; and Arkansas, `` मॉर्गन Nick एम्बर Alert '' ( in memory of Morgan chauntel उपनाम ).
AMBER Alerts हैं वितरित via वाणिज्यिक रेडियो स्टेशन, अंतरजाल रेडियो, satellite रेडियो, television stations, and cable tv by the आपात चेतावनी System and NOAA मौसम Radio ( जहाँ they हैं termed `` चाइल्ड Abduction आपात '' or `` एम्बर Alerts '' ).
The चेतावनियाँ are भी issued via e-mail, electronic traffic-condition signs, the led billboards जिससे हैं located बाहर of newer Walgreens locations, साथ साथ the LED/LCD लक्षण of billboard कंपनियाँ ऐसे as साफ चैनल Outdoor, CBS बाहरी और Lamar, or through बेतार device SMS text messages.
एम्बर चेतावनी रै भी teamed up with Google और फेसबुक to रिले information regarding an एम्बर Alert to an कभी growing demographic.
Those दिलचस्पी in subscribing to receive एम्बर Alerts in their area via sms संदेश can विज़िट Wireless एम्बर चेतावनियाँ, which are offered by विधि as फ़्री messages.
In कुछ states, the प्रदर्शक scrollboards in सामने of लॉटरी terminals are also used.
the निर्णय to declare an एम्बर चेतावनी is बना by each police organization ( in अनेक cases, the state police or highway patrol ) which investigates each of the abductions.
Public सूचना in an AMBER Alert usually consists of the नाम और वर्णन of the abductee, a description of the suspected abductor, और a description and license थाली क्रमांक of the abductor 's vehicle, if available.
Monica samille Lewinsky ( born जुलाई 23, 1973 ) is an American woman with जिसको संयुक्त States अध्यक्ष Bill क्लिंटन admitted to having had an `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the श्वेत हाउस in 1995 and 1996.
The affair और इसके repercussions ( which included क्लिंटन 's impeachment ) became ज्ञात as the lewinsky scandal.
हाउस of Night is a series of vampire -themed fantasy novels by American author P. C. डाल and उसके daughter kristin Cast.
it follows the adventures of zoey Redbird, a sixteen-year-old लड़की who has just become a `` fledgling vampyre '' and is जरूरी to attend the House of रात्रि boarding school in तुलसा, Oklahoma.
The श्रेणी has been on the New York टाइम्स Best Seller सूची for 63 weeks और there हैं over सात लाख copies in छपाई in North America अलोन.
The छठे novel, Tempted, जिससे went on sale on October 27, 2009 with a पहला printing of a लाख copies, डाला the यूएसए आज bestseller list that week at # 1.
In January, 2010, Gezeichnet, a German अनुवाद of चिह्नित, reached the # 1 spot on the Der Spiegel बेस्टसेलर list.
the series has so दूर sold अधिक than ten लाख books in 39 countries.
Burned was released on April 27, 2010, and like Tempted, it डाला the यूएसए Today bestseller list that week at # 1.
awakened, released in January, 2011, also entered the list at # 1.
the श्रेणी, which is प्रकाशित by St Martin 's दबायें is नियोजित to include twelve books.
in 2008, plans लिये a film अनुकूलन यहूद also घोषित.
The tenth book in the श्रेणी, छुपा, was released on October 16, 2012.
The second book in the novellas ( जिससे दे backgrounds on supporting वर्ण ), lenobia 's Vow, was released जनवरी 31, 2012.
Book eleven is फिलहाल called नाज़िल, और the Casts have announced कि two अधिक novellas, neferet’s अभिशाप, नियोजित to be released February 19, 2013, and a prequel novel परिचय kalona, are to be released to coincide साथ the eleventh and twelfth किताबे.
in यूनानी mythology, the trojan War was waged विरूद्ध the city of Troy by the Achaeans ( यूनानियों ) बाद Paris of Troy took हेलेन from उसके husband Menelaus किंग of Sparta.
the युद्ध is one of the most important कार्यक्रम in Greek mythology and has been narrated through many works of यूनानी literature, most notably through Homer 's इलियड और the Odyssey.
The इलियड relates a भाग of the last year of the घेरा of Troy ; the Odyssey describes Odysseus 's journey home.
Other parts of the युद्ध are contained in a साईकिल of एपिक poems, which have बच through fragments.
Episodes इससे the war provided सामग्री for Greek tragedy and other works of यूनानी literature, and for Roman कवियों including Virgil and Ovid.
the युद्ध originated इससे a quarrel between the देवियाँ Athena, hera, और Aphrodite, after Eris, the goddess of strife और अनबन, दिया them a golden ठहराना, sometimes known as the Apple of Discord, marked `` for the fairest ''.
ज़ीउस sent the goddesses to पेरिस, जो judged that aphrodite, as the `` fairest '', should receive the ठहराना.
in एक्सचेंज, aphrodite made हेलेन, the most खूबसूरत of all women और wife of Menelaus, fall in love with Paris, who took उसके to Troy.
Agamemnon, king of Mycenae and the brother of Helen 's husband Menelaus, led an expedition of achaean troops to ट्रॉय and besieged the city for ten years because of पेरिस ' बेइज्जती.
After the मौतों of many नायक, including the Achaeans Achilles और Ajax, और the Trojans हेक्टर and पेरिस, the city गिरी to the ruse of the trojan Horse.
The achaeans slaughtered the Trojans ( except for some of the महिलाओं and children जिसको they kept or sold as स्लेव ) और desecrated the temples, यूँ earning the देवताओं ' wrath.
few of the Achaeans returned safely to उनके घरों and many founded colonies in distant shores.
the Romans later traced their origin to aeneas, एक of the ट्रोजन्स, who थी said to have led the surviving ट्रोजन्स to modern-day Italy.
The प्राचीन यूनानियों विचार that the trojan War was a historical event that had taken place in the 13th or 12th सदी BC, and believed that ट्रॉय was located in modern-day तुर्कों निकट the dardanelles.
By आधुनिक times, both the युद्ध और the city were widely believed to be non-historical.
in 1868, however, the German archaeologist Heinrich schliemann मिले Frank Calvert, जो convinced schliemann कि ट्रॉय was at Hissarlik and Schliemann took over Calvert 's excavations on property belonging to Calvert ; this claim is अभी accepted by most विद्वानों.
Whether there is any ऐतिहासिक वास्तविकता behind the Trojan War is an खोलें question.
अनेक विद्वानों believe that वहीँ is a historical core to the tale, हालांकि इस may simply mean that the Homeric stories are a संलयन of विभिन्न tales of sieges and रिझाने by माइसीनियाई यूनानियों during the कांस्य Age.
Those who मानना that the stories of the Trojan War are derived from a specific historical विरोध usually date it to the 12th or 11th centuries BC, often preferring the dates दिए by इरैटोस्थनिज़, 1194–1184 BC, which roughly corresponds with पुरातत्व evidence of a अनर्थकारी burning of ट्रॉय viia.
Anarchists have employed निश्चित प्रतीकों लिये their cause, सहित सबसे prominently the circle-a and the ब्लैक flag, although anarchists have historically largely denied the importance of प्रतीकों to राजनैतिक movement.
Since the revival of अराजकतावाद around the start of the 21st-century concurrent साथ the rise of the anti-globalization गति, anarchist सांस्कृतिक प्रतीकों are widely उपस्थित.
The greater palatine कनाल ( or pterygopalatine कनाल ) is a passage in the skull that transmits the greater palatine धमनी, vein, और तंत्रिका between the pterygopalatine fossa और the मौखिक cavity.
सतह तापमान of Antarctica in winter and गर्मियाँ from the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather forecasts
The जलवायु of अंटार्कटिक is the coldest on the पूरे of Earth.
Antarctica has the lowest naturally occurring temperature कभी अंकित on the ground on धरती : −89.2 °c ( −128.6 °f ) at वोस्तोक Station.
It is also अत्यधिक शुष्क ( technically a desert ), averaging 166 mm ( 6.5 in ) of precipitation per year.
Even so, on सबसे parts of the महाद्वीप the snow rarely melts और is आखिरकार compressed to become the glacial ice कि makes up the ice sheet.
Weather fronts rarely penetrate दूर into the continent.
Most of Antarctica रै an ice कैप climate ( köppen EF ) with very cold, generally extremely dry weather throughout the साल और no month averaging above 0 °c ( 32 °f ).
कुछ fringe coastal areas have a tundra climate ( Köppen ET ) साथ a short summer averaging ऊपर freezing, and much उच्चतर वर्षण.
Current head coach माइक tomlin, during the 2007 season
The Pittsburgh Steelers franchise has had 16 head कोच throughout इसके history.
संस्थापित as the पिट्सबर्ग Pirates in, the name थी changed to the Steelers prior to the season to celebrate the city 's विरासत of producing steel.
जो बच served two separate terms as head कोच and वॉल्ट kiesling served तीन पृथक terms.
During the और सीज़न, due to the amount of players who fought in World War II, the Steelers संयुक्त their team साथ Philadelphia and शिकागो, respectively.
During these seasons, Steelers ' coach Walt kiesling साझा coaching duties with चिकनी neale और Phil हैंडलर, जो have नहीं been included भीतर इस list.
struggling for much of the franchise 's early सालो, the team 's first season साथ more wins than losses was coached by jock Sutherland in.
in, under Sutherland, the Steelers निभाई their पहला playoff खेल विरूद्ध the Philadelphia ईगल्स.
टेन of the 16 head coaches खर्च their entire पेशेवर कोचिंग करियर with the मताधिकार, सहित John McNally, Walt Kiesling and चक Noll, who have also महरूम voted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame.
One of तभी चार men to कोच the same team लिये 23 सालो, चक noll रिटायर्ड in.
Noll is also the only coach in नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League history to win four Super Bowls.
विधेयक Cowher, noll 's replacement, coached the Steelers to their fifth सुपर कटोरी victory, in 2005.
the स्टीलर्स sixth Super Bowl win came in सुपर कटोरी xliii, जबकि सिर coached by Mike Tomlin, the टोली 's वर्तमान सिर कोच.
in दण्ड विधि, fraud is intentional deception बना लिये निजी लाभ or to damage another individual ; the सम्बन्धित adjective is बेईमान, और क्रिया is defraud.
धोखाधड़ी is a crime और a सिविल विधि violation, though the specific criminal विधि definition varies by विधिक क्षेत्राधिकार.
Defrauding people or entities of धन or valuables is a common purpose of धोखाधड़ी.
A hoax भी involves deception, लकिन without the intention of gain or of damaging or depriving the victim.
Fraud is a रक्षा in a सिविल कार्रवाई for breach of अनुबंध or विशिष्ट performance of a contract.
Fraud is a आधार लिये निष्पक्ष jurisdiction.
Passover, or pesach ( from : in Hebrew, यहूदी ), Tiberian :, Modern यहूदी : /ˈpesaχ/ Pesah, pesakh, यहूदी : Peysekh, paysakh, Paysokh ) is an important Biblically -derived यहूदी festival.
historically, together with Shavuot ( `` Pentecost '' ) और sukkot ( `` Tabernacles '' ), passover is एक of the तीन यात्राएं त्यौहार ( shalosh Regalim ) during जिससे the संपूर्ण population of the kingdom of Judah बना a यात्राएं to the Temple in जेरूसलम.
Samaritans still मेक इस pilgrimage to माउंट Gerizim, लकिन तभी men participate in public worship.
Passover commences on the 15th of the Hebrew month of Nisan and lasts for either seven दिनों ( in Israel ) or eight days ( in the diaspora ).
In judaism, a दिन commences at dusk and lasts until the following dusk, thus the पहला दिन of Passover only begins after dusk of the 14th of nisan और ends at dusk of the 15th दिन of the month of Nisan.
The संस्कार unique to the Passover celebrations commence with the passover Seder when the 15th of Nisan रै begun.
In the Northern गोलार्ध passover takes प्लेस in spring as the Torah prescribes it : `` in the माह of [ the ] spring '' ( בחדש האביב ).
It is एक of the सबसे widely observed Jewish holidays.
the Jewish people celebrate Passover as a commemoration of their मुक्ति over 3,300 years ago by God from slavery in ancient Egypt that थी ruled by the Pharaohs, और their जनम as a nation under the नेतृत्व of मूसा.
It commemorates the story of the exodus as described in the यहूदी Bible especially in the Book of exodus, in जिससे the Israelites यहूद freed इससे गुलामी in मिश्र.
in the कथा of the Exodus, the बाइबल tells that God helped the Children of Israel escape इससे their slavery in मिश्र by inflicting ten plagues upon the ancient उन्होंने before the pharaoh होता रिलीज his Israelite slaves ; the दसवाँ and worst of the plagues थी the death of the Egyptian first-born.
The israelites were instructed to चिह्नित the doorposts of their homes with the रक्त of a slaughtered spring lamb और, upon seeing this, the spirit of the Lord knew to pass over the first-born in these homes, hence the name of the अवकाश.
There is some debate over where the term is actually निकला इससे.
जब the pharaoh freed the Israelites, it is कहा that वे बाएँ in such a hurry कि they could नहीं wait लिये ब्रैड dough to वृद्धि ( leaven ).
in commemoration, for the duration of Passover no leavened ब्रैड is eaten, लिये जिससे reason it is पुकारा `` The Festival of the Unleavened ब्रैड ''.
Thus Matzo ( चपटा unleavened ब्रैड ) is खाया during passover and it is a symbol of the holiday.
हैली 's Comet or Comet Halley ( or ), officially designated 1p/halley, is the best-known of the short-period comets और is visible इससे Earth every 75–76 years.
हैली is the तभी short-period धूमकेतु that is clearly visible to the naked eye from धरती, and thus the only naked-eye comet that might appear twice in a human आजीवन.
Other naked-eye comets may be brighter and अधिक spectacular, लकिन होगा appear only एकबार in हज़ारों of years.
Halley 's returns to the भीतरी सौर System have महरूम observed and अंकित by astronomers since at least 240 BCE.
Clear records of the धूमकेतु 's appearances यहूद made by Chinese, Babylonian, and medieval यूरोपीय chroniclers, but were नहीं पहचाना as reappearances of the same ऑब्जेक्ट at the time.
the comet 's periodicity was first determined in 1705 by अंग्रेज़ी astronomer Edmond हैली, बाद जिसको it is now नामित.
हैली 's Comet last appeared in the inner सौर System in 1986 and will अगला appear in mid-2061.
During its 1986 apparition, Halley became the पहला धूमकेतु to be observed in detail by spacecraft, providing the पहला observational data on the structure of a comet केंद्रक and the यांत्रिकी of coma और टेल गठन.
These observations supported a number of longstanding hypotheses about comet construction, particularly Fred whipple 's `` dirty स्नोबॉल '' model, जिससे correctly predicted that Halley would be रचित of a मिश्रण of volatile ices – such as water, कार्बन dioxide और अमोनिया – and धूल.
The missions भी provided data which substantially reformed और reconfigured ये ideas ; लिये instance it is अभी understood कि हैली 's surface is largely composed of dusty, non-volatile materials, and that तभी a small portion of it is icy.
Anti-communism is विपक्ष to communism.
Organized anti-communism विकसित in reaction to the rise of communism, especially बाद the 1917 October Revolution in रूस and reaching वैश्विक dimensions during the ठंडा War.
Most anti-communists reject the concept of historical materialism, which is a central विचार in Marxism.
anti-communists reject the Marxist belief that पूंजीवाद will be followed by socialism and communism, just as सामंतवाद was followed by capitalism.
Anti-communists सवाल the validity of the मार्क्सवादी अर्जी that the socialist राज्य होगा `` wither away '' when it becomes unnecessary in a सच्चा communist समाज.
Anti-communists argue that the दमन in the early सालो of bolshevik rule, जबकि नहीं as extreme as that during जोसेफ स्टालिन 's नियम, was still severe by उचित standards, citing examples ऐसे as Felix dzerzhinsky 's रहस्य police, जिससे eliminated numerous political opponents by extrajudicial executions, and the brutal crushing of the Kronstadt rebellion and Tambov विद्रोह.
कुछ anti-communists refer to both Communism and fascism as सर्वसत्तावाद, seeing similarity between the actions of communist and fascist सरकारें.
Historian Robert conquest has argued that Communism was responsible for tens of लाखो of deaths during the 20th century.
Opponents argue that कम्युनिस्ट पार्टियों कि have come to शक्ति have tended to be rigidly intolerant of राजनैतिक opposition.
These प्रतिद्वंद्वियों अर्जी कि most कम्युनिस्ट countries have shown no signs of advancing from Marx 's समाजवादी stage of economy to an आदर्श कम्युनिस्ट stage.
Rather, Communist सरकारें have been accused of creating a नई सत्ताधारी क्लास ( a nomenklatura ), साथ शक्तियां और privileges greater than those previously enjoyed by the अपर classes in the non- communist regimes.
gil बगुला ( 9 अप्रैल 1922 – 27 November 2008 ) थी a Jamaican पेशेवर footballer.
He was the पहला ब्लैक खिलाड़ी to खेल लिये स्कॉटिश club Celtic, and थी the father of poet और musician Gil Scott-Heron.
He died in डेट्रॉयट of a heart attack on 27 November 2008.
the सोयाबीन ( US ) or soya bean ( UK ) ( Glycine max ) is a प्रजाति of legume native to ईस्ट Asia, widely grown for इसके edible bean जिससे रै numerous उपयोग.
the संयंत्र is classed as an oilseed rather than a pulse by the UN Food and Agricultural Organization ( FAO ).
Fat-free ( defatted ) soybean भोजन is a significant और cheap source of प्रोटीन लिये animal feeds and अनेक prepackaged meals ; soy vegetable आयल is another product of processing the सोयाबीन क्रॉप.
For example, soybean उत्पाद such as textured vegetable protein ( TVP ) are ingredients in many मांस and दुग्ध analogues.
soybeans produce significantly more protein per एकड़ than सबसे अन्य uses of land.
Traditional nonfermented खाना उपयोग of soybeans शामिल soy milk, and from the latter tofu and टोफू स्किन.
Fermented foods include soy सॉस, fermented सेम paste, natto, and tempeh, among अन्य.
the oil is used in अनेक industrial अनुप्रयोग.
The main निर्माता of सोया are the संयुक्त States ( 35 % ), Brazil ( 27 % ), Argentina ( 19 % ), China ( 6 % ) and India ( 4 % ).
the beans contain significant amounts of phytic एसिड, alpha-linolenic एसिड, and isoflavones.
हैरिसन घाट ( born July 13, 1942 ) is an अमरीकी फिल्मी कर्ता and producer.
He is famous लिये his प्रदर्शन as Han Solo in the असली Star Wars त्रयी and the title character of the इंडियाना Jones film series.
Ford is भी known लिये उसके roles as रिक Deckard in ब्लेड Runner, John किताब in Witness और जोकर Ryan in Patriot खेल and Clear और Present Danger.
His करियर has spanned six दशकों और शामिल roles in अनेक Hollywood blockbusters, including presumed Innocent, the Fugitive, Air फ़ोर्स एक, और What झूठ beneath.
at one पाइंट, four of the शीर्ष six box-office hits of all time included one of his roles.
पाँच of उसके films have been inducted into the नेशनल फिल्मी Registry.
in 1997, Ford थी ranked No. 1 in Empire `` The शीर्ष 100 Movie Stars of सब Time '' list.
, the United राज्य domestic box दफ्तर grosses of घाट 's films total over US $ 3.5 अरब, साथ worldwide grosses surpassing $ 6 billion, making Ford the third उच्चतम grossing U.S. घरेलू box-office star.
घाट is the husband of actress Calista flockhart.
a tube of chapstick
ChapStick is a ब्रांड नाम लिये लिप balm manufactured by Pfizer Consumer Healthcare and used in many countries worldwide.
it is intended to help treat and prevent chapped lips ; hence the name.
अनेक किस्में भी शामिल सनस्क्रीन in order to prevent sunburn.
Due to its लोकप्रियता, the term रै become a genericized ट्रेडमार्क.
It popularly refers to कोई lip balm contained in a lipstick-style ट्यूब और applied in the same manner as lipstick.
however, the पद is स्टिल a पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क, with अधिकारों exclusively owned by Pfizer.
In Sweden और in the United किंगडम, the product 's main competitor is lypsyl, made by Novartis उपभोक्ता स्वास्थ्य, which is distributed in समान packaging to chapstick.
George Berkeley ( ; 12 March 168514 January 1753 ), also ज्ञात as बिशप बर्कली ( Bishop of Cloyne ), was an Anglo-Irish philosopher whose प्राथमिक achievement was the advancement of a theory he called `` immaterialism '' ( later referred to as `` subjective idealism `` by others ).
This theory denies the existence of material substance and बजाय contends that परिचित वस्तुएँ like tables and कुर्सियां हैं only ideas in the minds of perceivers, and as a result can not मौजूद बगैर being आभास.
यूँ, as बर्कली famously put it, लिये शारीरिक वस्तुएँ `` esse est percipi '' ( `` to be is to be आभास `` ).
बर्कली is also ज्ञात for उसके critique of abstraction, an important premise in his argument for immaterialism.
In 1709, बर्कली published his पहला major work,, in जिससे he discussed the सीमाएं of human दृष्टि and उन्नत the सिद्धान्त कि the proper objects of sight are not material objects, but लाइट और colour.
This foreshadowed his मुख्य philosophical work A Treatise concerning the Principles of Human ज्ञान in 1710 which, बाद its poor reception, he rewrote in संवाद form और published under the title Three Dialogues between Hylas और Philonous in 1713.
In this किताब, Berkeley 's views यहूद represented by philonous ( यूनानी : 'प्रेमr of mind ' ), जबकि Hylas ( Greek : 'matter ' ) embodies the Irish thinker’s opponents, in particular John Locke.
Berkeley argued विरूद्ध सर इसहाक़ Newton 's doctrine of absolute स्पेस, समय and motion in De Motu ( on Motion ), published 1721.
His वितर्क were a precursor to the दृश्य of Mach and आइंस्टीन.
in 1732, he published Alciphron, a ईसाई apologetic विरूद्ध the free-thinkers, और in 1734, he published The विश्लेषक, an empiricist critique of the मूलाधार of infinitesimal calculus, which थी influential in the विकास of mathematics.
His last major philosophical work, siris ( 1744 ), begins by वकालत the औषधीय उपयोग of tar water, and then continues to discuss a चौड़ी range of विषय including विज्ञान, दर्शनशास्त्र, और theology.
Interest in बर्कली 's कार्य increased बाद संसार युद्ध ii, क्युकी he tackled many of the issues of paramount interest to philosophy in the 20th सदी such as the problems of बोध, the अंतर between प्राथमिक and secondary qualities, और the importance of language.
Qingdao ( ), historically ज्ञात as tsingtao, is a major city in eastern शानदोंग province, Eastern चीन, साथ a जनसांख्यिकी of over 8.715 लाख ( 2010 census ).
Its built up area, made of 6 urban districts and 4 county-level cities, is home to about 4,896,000 inhabitants in 2010.
it borders yantai to the northeast, weifang to the west and Rizhao to the southwest.
qīng ( ) in चाइनीज means `` ग्रीन '' or `` lush '', जबकि dǎo ( ) अर्थात् `` द्वीप ''.
Qingdao is administered at the sub-provincial स्तर.
Lying आरपार the Shandong Peninsula जबकि looking आउट to the Yellow Sea, Qingdao is a प्रमुख seaport, naval base, and औद्योगिक centre.
it is also the site of the Tsingtao ब्रेवरी.
The संसार 's longest sea सेतु, the Qingdao Haiwan सेतु, कड़ी the प्रमुख urban क्षेत्रफल of Qingdao with Huangdao ज़िला, straddling the jiaozhou Bay समुद्र क्षेत्रों.
Qingdao is named China 's most livable नगर.
Mimivirus is a viral genus containing a single identified species named Acanthamoeba polyphaga mimivirus ( apmv ), or is a group of phylogenetically सम्बन्धित विशाल वाइरस ( designated प्रायः mimin ).
In colloquial speech, APMV is अधिक commonly referred to as बस `` mimivirus ''.
जबतक October 2011, when a larger virus Megavirus chilensis was वर्णित, it had the largest capsid diameter of सब known viruses.
mimivirus has a large और complex genome compared साथ सबसे other viruses.
mimivirus, छोटी for `` mimicking microbe '', is so called to प्रतिबिंबित its large आकार and apparent Gram-staining properties.
The मैक्सिकन War of स्वतंत्रता ( 1810–1821 ) was an armed conflict between the लोगों of मैक्सिको and the स्पेनी colonial अधिकारियों which started on September 16, 1810.
the गति, which became known as the Mexican युद्ध of स्वतंत्रता, was led by mexican-born spaniards, mestizos and amerindians जो sought independence from Spain.
it started as an आदर्शवादी peasants ' विद्रोह विरूद्ध their औपनिवेशिक मास्टर्स, but ended as an unlikely गठबंधन between Mexican ex-royalists और मैक्सिकन guerrilla insurgents.
crohn 's बीमारी, भी ज्ञात as crohn सिंड्रोम and क्षेत्रीय enteritis, is a प्रकार of inflammatory bowel disease कि may affect any part of the जठरांत्र ट्रैक्ट इससे mouth to anus, causing a wide variety of symptoms.
It primarily कल्याणकारी abdominal पीड़ा, diarrhea ( जिससे may be खूनी if inflammation is at its worst ), उल्टी ( can be continuous ), or weight घाटा, but may भी कारण complications बाहर the gastrointestinal tract such as skin rashes, गठिया, सूजन of the eye, थकान, and कमी of concentration.
crohn 's disease is caused by interactions between environmental, immunological and bacterial factors in genetically susceptible individuals.
इस results in a chronic inflammatory disorder, in which the body 's प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली attacks the gastrointestinal tract संभवतः directed at सूक्ष्मजैविक antigens.
Crohn 's बीमारी रै wrongly महरूम described as an असंक्राम्य बीमारी in the past ; recent जांचकर्ताओं have described it as an प्रतिरक्षा कमियां state.
There is a जेनेटिक संघ with crohn 's बीमारी, primarily with variations of the NOD2 gene and इसके protein, which senses बैक्टीरियल कोशिका दीवारें.
सहोदर of affected individuals हैं at उच्चतर risk.
Males and females हैं equally affected.
Smokers are two टाइम्स more likely to develop Crohn 's disease than nonsmokers.
Crohn 's disease affects between 400,000 and 600,000 people in उत्तर अमेरिका.
Prevalence estimates for उत्तरी Europe have ranged from 27–48 per 100,000.
crohn 's disease tends to present initially in the teens and twenties, with another peak incidence in the fifties to seventies, although the disease can occur at कोई आयु.
वहीँ is no known फार्मास्युटिकल or सर्जिकल cure लिये Crohn 's disease.
Treatment options हैं restricted to controlling symptoms, maintaining remission, and preventing पतन.
The बीमारी थी named बाद gastroenterologist Burrill Bernard Crohn, जो, in 1932, together साथ दो अन्य colleagues at Mount Sinai हॉस्पिटल in नई York, described a series of मरीजों साथ सूजन of the terminal ileum, the area most commonly affected by the बीमारी.
इस is an अधूरी list of the tallest इमारतें and structures by country.
The सूची directly includes the tallest इमारतें and structures for each देश, and where उचित, it also अंक to अधिक detailed country-specific lists.
अशिष्ट and Ready is a census-designated प्लेस in Nevada काउंटी, California, United States.
It is located west of Grass घाटी, California, approximately 62 miles ( 100 km ) from sacramento.
The population was 963 at the 2010 census.
YouTube is a video-sharing जालस्थल, created by three पूर्व PayPal employees in February 2005, on जिससे उपयोक्ता can upload, दृश्य and share videos.
the company is based in San Bruno, California, and uses adobe Flash Video और html5 प्रौद्योगिकी to display a wide किस्में of user-generated वीडियो content, सहित फिल्म क्लिप्स, TV clips, और music videos, as well as amateur content ऐसे as वीडियो blogging, short असली videos, and शैक्षणिक videos.
सबसे of the content on YouTube रै महरूम अपलोड by individuals, although media corporations सहित CBS, the बीबीसी, Vevo, hulu, and other organizations offer some of उनके material via the site, as part of the YouTube partnership कार्यक्रम.
Unregistered users can watch वीडियो, while पंजीकृत users can अपलोड an असीमित number of videos.
वीडियो माना to contain potentially offensive content are उपलब्धियाँ तभी to registered users at तनिक 18 years old.
in नवम्बर 2006, YouTube, llc थी खरीदा by Google लिये us $ 1.65 billion, and operates as a subsidiary of Google.
Sister अधिनियम is a musical written by cheri Steinkellner and विधेयक steinkellner साथ अतिरिक्त किताब सामग्री by डगलस Carter beane, with गीत by ग्लेन Slater and म्यूज़िक by Alan menken.
It is based on the hit 1992 फिल्मी कॉमेडी of the same name.
The 2009 West End production was produced by Stage Entertainment, Whoopi गोल्डबर्ग, और Michael Reno for Sis Acts LLC.
गोल्डबर्ग is also a producer of the 2011 Broadway अनुकूलन.
Microsoft DirectX is a संग्रहण of अनुप्रयोग programming interfaces ( APIs ) for हैंडलिंग tasks related to मल्टीमीडिया, विशेषकर खेल प्रोग्रामिंग और वीडियो, on microsoft platforms.
Originally, the names of these api सब began साथ सीधा, such as Direct3D, DirectDraw, DirectMusic, DirectPlay, DirectSound, and so forth.
the नाम DirectX थी coined as shorthand term for all of ये APIs ( the X standing in for the particular api names ) और जल्द became the नाम of the collection.
जब microsoft later नियत out to develop a gaming console, the X was used as the basis of the नाम एक्सबॉक्स to indicate कि the console was आधारित on डाइरेक्टएक्स technology.
The x आरंभिक रै been carried आगे in the naming of APIs designed लिये the Xbox such as XInput and the Cross-platform ऑडियो सृष्टि Tool ( XACT ), while the DirectX pattern has been continued for Windows APIs such as Direct2D and DirectWrite.
direct3d ( the 3D graphics API within DirectX ) is widely used in the विकास of video games for microsoft खिड़कियाँ, microsoft एक्सबॉक्स, microsoft एक्सबॉक्स 360 and some Sega dreamcast games.
Direct3D is also used by other तन्त्र applications for visualization और graphics कार्य such as cad/cam अभियान्त्रिकी.
As direct3d is the सबसे widely publicized component of डाइरेक्टएक्स, it is common to see the names `` DirectX '' और `` Direct3D '' used interchangeably.
the DirectX तन्त्र development kit ( SDK ) consists of runtime पुस्तकालयों in redistributable शब्दकोष रूप, along साथ accompanying documentation and headers लिये उपयोग in कोडिंग.
Originally, the runtimes were only installed by खेल or explicitly by the उपयोक्ता.
Windows 95 did नहीं launch with DirectX, but DirectX was included साथ खिड़कियाँ 95 OEM Service रिलीज 2.
खिड़कियाँ 98 और Windows NT 4.0 both shipped with DirectX, as has every संस्करण of Windows released चूंकि.
the sdk is available as a फ़्री download.
While the runtimes are proprietary, closed-source तन्त्र, source कोड is provided for most of the sdk samples.
starting with the release of Windows 8 डेवलपर पूर्वावलोकन, DirectX sdk has been एकीकृत into खिड़कियाँ sdk.
Direct3D 9Ex, direct3d 10, and Direct3D 11 are तभी उपलब्धियाँ लिये खिड़कियाँ विस्टा और नए क्युकी each of these new संस्करण was built to depend upon the new Windows Display ड्राइवर मॉडल कि थी introduced लिये Windows Vista.
The new Vista/WDDM ग्राफिक्स architecture शामिल a new video memory manager supporting virtualization of graphics हार्डवेयर for various applications and services जैसे the डेस्कटॉप खिड़की Manager.
Quetzaltenango, भी commonly known by its indigenous name, Xelajú, or more commonly, Xela, is the second largest city of Guatemala.
it is दोनो the capital of Quetzaltenango विभाग and the नगरपालिका seat of Quetzaltenango नगरपालिका.
it has an estimated population of 224,703.
The population is about 61 % स्वदेशी or amerindian, 34 % मेस्टिज़ो or ladino and 5 % European.
Quetzaltenango is located in a mountain valley at an उन्नयन of 2,330 मीटर ( 7,655 ft ) ऊपर समुद्र स्तर at इसके lowest part.
It may reach ऊपर 2,400 मीटर within the नगर.
the Municipality of quetzaltenango consists of an area of.
municipalities abutting the municipality of quetzaltenango शामिल : salcajá, Cantel, almolonga, zunil, El palmar, concepción Chiquirichapa, San mateo, la Esperanza, Olintepeque, and सैन Andrés Xecul.
All ये municipalities हैं part of the विभाग of quetzaltenango, मगर सैन Andrés Xecul which is a part of the विभाग of totonicapán.
the एपिक of Gilgamesh, an epic poem from Mesopotamia, is amongst the earliest surviving works of literature.
The literary इतिहास of gilgamesh begins with five independent Sumerian कविताएं about 'bilgamesh ' ( Sumerian for gilgamesh ), king of uruk.
Four of ये were used as source material for a combined epic in Akkadian.
This first combined एपिक, known as the `` बूढ़ा Babylonian '' version, dates to the 18th century bc and is titled बाद its incipit, shūtur eli sharrī ( `` surpassing All अन्य किंग्स '' ).
तभी a few fragments of it have बच.
the बाद `` Standard babylonian '' संस्करण dates from the 13th to the 10th centuries bc and bears the incipit शा naqba īmuru ( `` he who Saw the Deep '' ).
Fragments of लगभग two thirds of इस longer, twelve-tablet version have महरूम बरामद.
कुछ of the best copies यहूद खोजा in the पुस्तकालयों ruins of the 7th-century bc Assyrian king ashurbanipal.
the story centers on a दोस्ती between Gilgamesh and Enkidu.
Enkidu is a wild man created by the देवताओं as Gilgamesh 's बराबर to distract him from oppressing the लोगों of Uruk.
Together, वे journey to the देवदार Mountain to defeat Humbaba, its monstrous guardian.
Later वे kill the Bull of स्वर्ग, which the goddess इश्तार sends to सजा gilgamesh for spurning her अग्रिम.
As a दंड for these actions, the gods वाक्य enkidu to मौत.
The second half of the एपिक focuses on gilgamesh 's तकलीफ at Enkidu 's death, और his quest लिये immortality.
in order to सीख the secret of अनन्त life, Gilgamesh undertakes a long and perilous journey.
He learns that `` the life that you हैं seeking you will never find.
When the देवताओं created man वे allotted to him मौत, but जीवन वे retained in their own keeping. ''
This quote was originally attributed to siduri in the बूढ़ा Babylonian version of the epic, and तब attributed to the अमर flood नायिका utnapishtim in the Akkadian version of the एपिक.
nevertheless, gilgamesh 's fame जिया on after his मौत, क्युकी of his great भवन projects, और उसके खाता of what Utnapishtim बताई उसे happened during the flood.
the story has been अनूदित into many अलग भाषाएं, और Gilgamesh रै since become adapted in works of लोकप्रिय fiction.
वहीँ are numerous debates over who created the first video game, with the जवाब depending largely on how वीडियो खेल हैं defined.
the एवोल्यूशन of video games represents a उलझे web of several different industries, including scientific, computer, आर्केड, और consumer इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स.
the `` वीडियो '' in `` वीडियो खेल `` traditionally refers to a raster प्रदर्शक यंत्र.
साथ the popular कैच phrase use of the पद `` वीडियो game '', the term अभी implies all प्रदर्शक प्रकार, स्वरुप, और platforms.
Historians have also sought to bypass the issue by instead using the more specific `` digital games '' वर्णनात्मक.
This पद leaves out the earlier analog-based कंप्यूटर खेल.
This is a list of best-selling वीडियो खेल franchises that have बेची or shipped at तनिक 5 लाख copies.
Unless otherwise stated, संख्याएँ indicate worldwide units बेची, ordered alphabetically whenever two or more सूची the वही amount.
The exception हैं the ones specifying shipments, which have निम्नतर precedence than others listing sales.
Franchise sales include विस्तार पैक even though they हैं नहीं considered पूरा video games.
For best-selling individual वीडियो games, देखिए सूची of best-selling वीडियो games.
The बिक्री आंकड़े दिए below do नहीं शामिल आर्केड game sales, which can be मिला at List of highest-grossing arcade video games.
– इस color indicates a sub-series of a larger वीडियो खेल franchise.
इस does not necessarily apply लिये श्रेणी that हैं not video game-based.
डोरोथी ऐन Willis Richards ( सितंबर 1, 1933 – September 13, 2006 ) was an American politician and the 45th राज्यपाल of Texas.
वो first आए to नेशनल attention as the state treasurer of टेक्सास, when वो delivered the keynote पता at the 1988 लोकतांत्रिक National Convention.
Richards served as the 45th Governor of Texas इससे 1991 to 1995 and was defeated for re-election in 1994 by जार्ज W. बुश.
Ann Richards was the दूसरी female governor of Texas.
आंकड़ा Execution Prevention ( DEP ) is a security feature included in आधुनिक ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों.
it is ज्ञात to be available in लिनक्स, Mac OS x, iOS, Microsoft खिड़कियाँ and Android ऑपरेटिंग systems और is intended to prevent an अनुप्रयोग or service from निष्पादित code from a non-executable memory region.
इस helps prevent certain कारनामे that store code via a बफ़र अतिप्रवाह, for example.
DEP रनों in दो मोड्स : hardware-enforced DEP for cpu कि can mark memory pages as nonexecutable, और software-enforced DEP with limited सुरक्षा लिये cpu that do नहीं have hardware support.
Software-enforced DEP does not protect विरूद्ध execution of code in data pages, but instead counters seh मिटाकर, another प्रकार of आक्रमण.
dep थी introduced on Linux in 2004 ( कर्नेल 2.6.8 ), on खिड़कियाँ in 2004 साथ Windows XP Service Pack 2, while Apple introduced DEP when they moved to x86 in 2006.
उदाहरण उदाहरण of two common futanari विसंगतियाँ
, is the जापानी word for hermaphroditism, which is भी प्रयुक्त in a broader sense लिये androgyny.
Beyond जापानी the पद is used to describe a commonly pornographic विधा of computer खेल, कॉमिक्स और एनिमेशन, which includes characters that दिखाएँ both प्राथमिक sexual characteristics.
But in today 's language it refers almost exclusively for वर्ण who have an overall feminine रूप.
In that case the term is भी often abbreviated as futa ( s ), which is occasionally भी प्रयुक्त as पद for the works itself.
Early CAPTCHAs such as these, generated by the EZ-Gimpy कार्यक्रम, यहूद used on याहू !
A modern CAPTCHA, बल्कि than attempting to create a distorted background and high levels of warping on the टेक्स्ट, might focus on making segmentation मुश्किल by adding an angled line.
Another way to मेक segmentation difficult is to crowd symbols together, as in याहू ! 's current CAPTCHA format.
Some captchas कोशिश to utilize the ability of people to see three-dimensional objects.
On इस चित्र, प्रतीकों हैं drawn साथ lines of different मोटाई to make an effect of extrusion.
A CAPTCHA ( ) is a type of challenge-response परीक्षण used in कम्प्यूटिंग as an attempt to ensure कि the जवाब is उत्पन्न by a human होने.
The process usually involves a computer asking a उपयोक्ता to complete a सरल परीक्षण जिससे the कंप्यूटर is समर्थ to grade.
These tests are designed to be easy for a कंप्यूटर to generate but मुश्किल for a कंप्यूटर to solve, but again आसान लिये a इंसान.
If a सही solution is received, it can be presumed to have महरूम entered by a human.
A common type of CAPTCHA requires the उपयोक्ता to प्रकार letters and/or digits from a distorted image कि appears on the स्क्रीन.
ऐसे परीक्षण हैं commonly used to prevent unwanted अंतरजाल बॉट इससे accessing वेबसाइटों, since a normal इंसान can easily read a captcha, जबकि the bot can नहीं प्रक्रम the image letters and therefore, can not answer properly, or at all.
हालांकि most CAPTCHAs are letter तस्वीरें randomly generated, अनेक of उन्हें have become difficult even for a human to पढ़ा, so picture CAPTCHAs यहूद निर्मित in which a human is shown a सरल test to show a picture of a निश्चित animal ( दिए few एनिमल pictures ), जिससे is सरल for a इंसान होने to process, and इसलिए आसान to pick, while a bot can not process and solve the question because although it can analyze the picture, it can not easily guess the animal.
the पद `` CAPTCHA '' थी coined in 2000 by लुइस von ahn, Manuel ब्लम, निकोलस J. Hopper, and John Langford ( सब of Carnegie Mellon University ).
It is an acronym आधारित on the word `` capture '' and खड़ा लिये `` Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell कंप्यूटर and इंसानो Apart ''.
कार्नेगी mellon विश्वविद्यालयों attempted to trademark the term on 15 October 2004, but the trademark अनुप्रयोग was abandoned on 21 April 2008.
a CAPTCHA is sometimes described as a reverse turing test, because it is administered by a machine and targeted at a human, in कंट्रास्ट to the मानक turing परीक्षण कि is typically administered by a human and targeted at a machine.
Jacques-Yves Cousteau ( ; commonly ज्ञात in English as ज़ाक Cousteau ; 11 जून 1910 – 25 June 1997 ) was a French naval अधिकारी, एक्सप्लोरर, conservationist, filmmaker, innovator, scientist, फ़ोटोग्राफ़र, लेखक and शोधकर्ता who studied the sea and सब forms of life in जल.
He co-developed the Aqua-Lung, pioneered marine conservation and was a सदस्य of the Académie française.
KFC ( केंटकी fried मुर्गा ) is a fast खाना restaurant कड़ी headquartered in louisville, Kentucky, संयुक्त States, which specializes in fried chicken.
An `` अमरीकी प्रतीक '', it is the world 's second largest restaurant chain overall ( as measured by बिक्री ) बाद McDonald 's, साथ over 18,000 outlets in 120 countries और territories.
The company is a subsidiary of Yum !
ब्रांड्स, a रेस्तरां company जिससे also owns Pizza हट and टैको Bell.
केएफसी was founded by Harland Sanders, जो began selling fried chicken from उसके roadside restaurant in कोर्बिन, केंटकी दौरान the Great Depression.
Sanders थी one of the first people to देखिए the potential of the restaurant फ़्रेंचाइज़िंग concept, साथ the पहला `` Kentucky fried मुर्गा '' franchise opening in यूटा in 1952.
The मताधिकार popularized chicken in the fast food industry, thereby diversifying the मार्केट and challenging the dominance of the हैमबर्गर.
विपणन himself as `` Colonel सैंडर्स '', he became a legendary figure of American cultural history, और his image is स्टिल prominently used in केएफसी branding.
The company 's rapid expansion saw it grow too large लिये सैंडर्स to manage, और in 1964 he sold the company to a समूह of निवेशकों led by जॉन Y. Brown, Jr. और Jack Massey.
केएफसी थी एक of the पहला fast food chains to expand internationally, खोलने outlets in इंग्लैण्ड, Mexico और Puerto Rico by the mid-1960s.
Throughout the 1970s और 1980s, KFC experienced मिश्रित सौभाग्य domestically, as it गई through a श्रेणी of corporate owners who had little or no experience in the restaurant कारोबार.
In the early 1970s, KFC was बेची to the spirits firm Heublein, जो यहूद लिया over by the R.J. Reynolds खाना and tobacco conglomerate, जो sold the chain to पेप्सिको.
the chain continued to expand overseas however, and in 1987 KFC became the first पश्चिमी restaurant chain to open in China.
The chain has चूंकि expanded rapidly in चीन, and the देश is now the कम्पनी 's most profitable मार्केट.
पेप्सिको spun बंद इसके restaurants प्रभाग as Tricon Global रेस्तरां, which later बदला इसके नाम to Yum !
Brands.
KFC primarily बिकता fried मुर्गा टुकड़े and विसंगतियाँ ऐसे as मुर्गा sandwiches और wraps, सलाद and पक्ष बर्तन ऐसे as French फ्राइज़ and coleslaw, desserts and soft पेय, प्रायः supplied by PepsiCo.
इसके most famous उत्पाद is pressure fried मुर्गा pieces, seasoned with Sanders ' `` Original Recipe '' of 11 herbs and मसाले.
the exact nature of these ingredients is unknown, और represents a notable व्यापार secret.
larger portions of fried मुर्गा are served in a distinctive गत्ता `` bucket '', जिससे has become a signature of the chain since being introduced by वाल पीट Harman.
केएफसी is famous for the slogan `` finger lickin ' शुभ '', which has since महरूम replaced by `` nobody करता chicken like केएफसी '' और `` So good ''.
Cnidaria ( with a मूक c ) or Coelenterata is a phylum containing over 10,000 प्रजाति of पशु found exclusively in aquatic and mostly marine environments.
Their distinguishing feature is cnidocytes, specialized cells that they उपयोग मुख्यतः for capturing prey.
Their bodies consist of mesoglea, a non-living jelly-like substance, sandwiched between two परतों of epithelium that are mostly एक कोशिका thick.
They have दो basic body forms : swimming medusae and sessile polyps, दोनो of which are radially सममित with mouths surrounded by tentacles that bear cnidocytes.
दोनो forms have a single orifice and देह cavity that हैं used for digestion and श्वसन.
अनेक cnidarian species produce colonies कि हैं सिंगल organisms composed of medusa-like or polyp-like zooids, or both.
Cnidarians ' activities are समन्वित by a decentralized nerve net और सरल receptors.
Several free-swimming Cubozoa and Scyphozoa possess balance-sensing statocysts, और some have simple eyes.
Not all cnidarians reproduce sexually.
अनेक have जटिल lifecycles with asexual polyp stages और sexual medusae, but कुछ omit either the polyp or the medusa stage.
Cnidarians were for a long समय grouped with ctenophores in the phylum Coelenterata, लकिन increasing जागरूकता of their differences caused them to be placed in separate phyla.
Cnidarians हैं वर्गीकृत into चार main groups : the लगभग wholly sessile Anthozoa ( समुद्र anemones, corals, समुद्र पेन ) ; swimming scyphozoa ( जेलीफ़िश ) ; Cubozoa ( box jellies ) ; and Hydrozoa, a diverse समूह that शामिल all the freshwater cnidarians as खूब as many समुद्री forms, and has both sessile members such as hydra and colonial swimmers ऐसे as the पुर्तगाली Man o ' युद्ध.
staurozoa have recently been recognised as a class in their own right बल्कि than a sub-group of scyphozoa, और वहीँ is debate about whether Myxozoa and Polypodiozoa are cnidarians or करीब to bilaterians ( अधिक complex पशु ).
सबसे cnidarians शिकार on जीवों ranging in size from प्लवक to animals अनेक times larger than themselves, लकिन many obtain much of their nutrition इससे endosymbiotic शैवाल, और a few are परजीवी.
Many are preyed upon by अन्य पशु सहित starfish, sea slugs, fish और टर्टल्स.
मूँगा reefs, whose polyps हैं समृद्ध in endosymbiotic शैवाल, support some of the संसार 's most उत्पादक ecosystems, and protect वनस्पति in tidal zones and on shorelines इससे strong currents and tides.
While corals are लगभग entirely प्रतिबंधित to गरम, उथले marine waters, other cnidarians live in the गहराइयों, in ध्रुवीय समंदर और in freshwater.
Fossil cnidarians have महरूम मिला in rocks formed about, and other fossils show that corals may have महरूम present shortly पहले और diversified a few million years बाद.
जीवाश्मों of cnidarians कि do not निर्माण mineralized structures are बहुत विरल.
वैज्ञानिकों currently सोचो कि cnidarians, ctenophores and bilaterians are more closely सम्बन्धित to calcareous sponges than these हैं to अन्य sponges, और that anthozoans are the evolutionary `` aunts '' or `` sisters '' of other cnidarians, और the most closely related to bilaterians.
Recent analyses have concluded that cnidarians, although considered अधिक `` primitive '' than bilaterians, have a wider range of genes.
The एज़टेक Pyramid at St. Cecilia Acatitlan, मैक्सिको State.
एज़टेक jade mask depicting the god Xipe Totec.
Large सिरेमिक statue of an एज़टेक त्रिभुज Warrior
एज़टेक cosmogram in the pre-Hispanic codex Fejérváry-Mayer - the fire god Xiuhtecuhtli is in the center.
The Aztec लोगों were certain ethnic समूह of central Mexico, विशेषकर those groups who spoke the Nahuatl language और जो dominated large भाग of Mesoamerica from the 14th to 16th centuries.
the नावातल शब्द aztecatl ( singular ) और aztecah ( plural ) mean `` लोगों इससे Aztlan ``, a mythological place for the nahuatl-speaking culture of the time, and later adopted as the word to define the Mexica people.
प्रायः the पद `` एज़टेक '' refers exclusively to the mexica people of tenochtitlan ( अभी the स्थान of मैक्सिको नगर ), situated on an द्वीप in झील Texcoco, जो referred to themselves as mexica tenochca or cōlhuah mexica.
sometimes the term also शामिल the inhabitants of tenochtitlan 's two principal अलाइड city-states, the Acolhuas of Texcoco and the tepanecs of Tlacopan, who together साथ the mexica formed the Aztec Triple Alliance which नियंत्रित what is often ज्ञात as `` the Aztec Empire ''.
in अन्य contexts, एज़टेक may refer to all the विभिन्न city states और their peoples, जो साझा large parts of उनके ethnic history और cultural traits with the Mexica, Acolhua और Tepanecs, और who प्रायः भी used the Nahuatl language as a lingua फ़्रांका.
in this meaning it is संभावित to बात about an एज़टेक civilization including सब the particular सांस्कृतिक पैटर्न common लिये most of the peoples inhabiting Central Mexico in the लेट postclassic period.
From the 13th सदी, the घाटी of Mexico was the heart of Aztec civilization : here the capital of the Aztec Triple Alliance, the city of tenochtitlan, was built upon raised आइलेट in झील Texcoco.
The ट्रिपल Alliance formed a उपनदी empire expanding its political आधिपत्य far beyond the घाटी of Mexico, conquering अन्य नगर states throughout Mesoamerica.
at its pinnacle, Aztec culture had rich और complex mythological and religious traditions, as खूब as reaching remarkable architectural और कलाकारी accomplishments.
In 1521 Hernán Cortés, along with a large number of नावातल speaking स्वदेशी allies, conquered Tenochtitlan and defeated the एज़टेक Triple Alliance अंतर्गत the leadership of Hueyi tlatoani Moctezuma ii.
Subsequently the Spanish संस्थापित the new उपनिवेश of Mexico नगर on the site of the ruined Aztec पूंजी, from where they proceeded साथ the प्रक्रम of colonizing Central America.
Aztec culture और इतिहास is primarily ज्ञात through पुरातत्व प्रमाण मिला in excavations such as that of the renowned templo Mayor in मैक्सिको City ; इससे indigenous छाल paper codices ; from eyewitness खाते by Spanish conquistadors ऐसे as Hernán Cortés and Bernal Díaz डेल कैस्टिलो ; और विशेषकर from 16th and 17th century descriptions of Aztec संस्कृति and history written by स्पेनी clergymen and literate aztecs in the स्पेनी or Nahuatl भाषा, ऐसे as the प्रसिद्ध Florentine Codex compiled by the Franciscan monk Bernardino de sahagún with the सहायता of indigenous एज़टेक informants.
Anderson Hays Cooper ( born June 3, 1967 ) is an American journalist, author, और television personality.
He is the primary anchor of the सीएनएन न्यूज show Anderson Cooper 360°.
the program is normally broadcast live इससे a New York City स्टुडियो ; however, कूपर often broadcasts सजीव on स्थान for तोड़कर न्यूज stories.
As of September 2011, he also serves as मेजबान of उसके अपना eponymous syndicated daytime बात show, Anderson Live, जिससे will be cancelled at the end of the second ऋतु.
a plot of a normal वितरण ( or bell-shaped curve ) where each band रै a चौडाई of 1 मानक deviation – देखिए also : 68-95-99.7 rule
संचयी संभाव्यता of a सामान्य distribution with expected value 0 and मानक deviation 1.
in आंकडे और संभाव्यता सिद्धान्त, standard विचलन ( represented by the symbol sigma, σ ) shows how much विभिन्नता or dispersion exists from the औसत ( औसत ), or अपेक्षित value.
A low मानक deviation indicates कि the data अंक tend to be very close to the औसत ; high standard विचलन indicates that the data अंक are spread out over a large range of values.
the मानक deviation of a यादृच्छिक variable, सांख्यिकीय जनसांख्यिकी, data set, or संभाव्यता वितरण is the वर्गाकार रूट of its variance.
it is algebraically simpler though practically कम robust than the average absolute विचलन.
a useful property of standard deviation is that, unlike variance, it is expressed in the वही units as the data.
Note, however, that for माप साथ प्रतिशत as ईकाई, the standard deviation होगा have प्रतिशत points as unit.
in addition to expressing the variability of a population, standard विचलन is commonly used to माप confidence in statistical conclusions.
लिये example, the हाशिया of error in polling data is संकल्पित by calculating the अपेक्षित मानक deviation in the results if the same पोल were to be conducted multiple टाइम्स.
the reported margin of error is typically परिचय twice the standard deviation ­– the radius of a 95 percent विश्वास interval.
In science, शोधकर्ताओं commonly report the standard deviation of प्रायोगिक आंकड़ा, and only प्रभाव कि fall दूर बाहर the range of मानक deviation हैं considered statistically significant – normal random error or विभिन्नता in the माप is in this रास्ता distinguished from causal variation.
Standard deviation is भी important in वित्त, जहाँ the मानक deviation on the रेट of वापसी on an investment is a measure of the volatility of the investment.
When only a sample of आंकड़ा from a जनसांख्यिकी is available, the standard deviation of the population can be estimated by a modified quantity called the `` sample मानक deviation ''.
When the नमूना is the संपूर्ण population, इसके unmodified मानक deviation is called the `` population standard विचलन ''.
ulluco ( u : ju : kɔ : ) ( Ullucus tuberosus ) is a संयंत्र grown primarily as a रूट vegetable, secondarily as a leaf सब्ज़ी.
The ulluco is one of the most widely grown and economically महत्वपूर्ण रूट फसलों in the andean प्रदेश of South अमेरिका, second only to the आलू.
it is ज्ञात there with the common name of पापा लिसा, but भी by the regional names melloco ( Ecuador ), olluco ( Peru ), chugua ( कोलंबिया ) or ruba ( वेनेजुएला ), among अन्य.
The पत्ता और the tuber are edible, समान to spinach and the potato, respectively.
वे are known to contain ऊँची levels of प्रोटीन, calcium, और केरोटीन.
papalisa यहूद used by the Incas prior to आगमन of europeans in South America.
Ulluco tubers are marketed as `` धरती Gems '' in नई जीलैंड, by Halfords Exotic उपज.
Ulluco tubers in New Zealand
an अप्रैल 24, 1851 पोस्टर warning the `` colored people of Boston '' about policemen acting as स्लेव catchers.
the Fugitive स्लेव Law or भगोड़े Slave अधिनियम थी passed by the संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस on September 18, 1850, as भाग of the Compromise of 1850 between दक्षिणी slave-holding interests and Northern Free-Soilers.
इस was one of the सबसे controversial acts of the 1850 सुलह और heightened उत्तरी fears of a `` slave power conspiracy ''.
it declared कि all runaway slaves यहूद, upon कैप्चर, to be returned to their masters.
Abolitionists nicknamed it the `` Bloodhound Law '' लिये the dogs that यहूद used to track down runaway स्लेव.
फ़्रैंक जोसेफ pallone, Jr. ( born अक्तूबर 30, 1951 ) is the U.S. प्रतिनिधि for, serving चूंकि 1993.
He is a member of the Democratic Party.
He previously represented the 3rd ज़िला from 1988 to 1993.
trin-i-tee 5:7 is a इन्जील duo इससे नई Orleans, Louisiana in the United राज्य.
the समूह थी marketed as a gospel वैकल्पिक to R & B लड़की समूह ऐसे as नियति 's Child and TLC.
Trin-i-tee 5:7 रै बेची over 2.5 लाख एल्बम.
in 1998, the group released their first album entitled trin-i-tee 5:7 which डेब्यू at # 1 on the शीर्ष Gospel चार्ट.
the album featured the गीतों `` परमेश्वर 's Grace '' and the cover song `` Oh !
Mary Do n't You रोते ''.
The album बाद became certified सुनहरा.
In 1999, Terri Brown left the समूह और थी बाद replaced by singer Adrian एंडरसन.
दौरान that year, the समूह recorded और released their second एल्बम, Spiritual प्रेम.
the album became the group 's दूसरी # 1 album on the Top Gospel चार्ट.
The एल्बम contained the singles `` put अपना हैंड्स '' और `` My Body ''.
In 2002, the group released उनके तीसरा album The चुंबन which debuted at # 2 on the Top Gospel चार्ट.
In 2007, the group left gospocentric रिकॉर्ड और हस्ताक्षरित a रिकार्ड deal with स्पिरिट उठती म्यूज़िक.
In late 2007, Trin-i-tee 5:7 released उनके fifth एल्बम T57, which featured the top ten gospel सिंगल `` Listen ''.
t57 charted # 2 on the Top इन्जील Albums, # 5 on the Top Christian चार्ट, and # 12 on the Top r & b charts.
The United States संघीय earned आय tax credit or अर्जित income क्रेडिट ( EITC or EIC ) is a refundable कर credit लिये low- और medium-income individuals and युगल, primarily for those जो have qualifying children.
जब the क्रेडिट exceeds the राशि of taxes owed, it results in a कर refund to those who अर्जी the credit.
इस credit is provided to offset the बोझ of सोशल security कर and also to promote an incentive to work.
In order for a व्यक्ति or युगल to अर्जी one or more व्यक्तियों as their qualifying चाइल्ड ( ren ), the आयु, relationship, and साझा residency आवश्यकताएँ जरूर be met, as खूब as some अन्य requirements.
U.S. tax फ़ॉर्म 1040EZ, 1040a, or 1040 can be used to अर्जी eic without qualifying children.
To अर्जी the क्रेडिट with qualifying children, 1040A or 1040 must be प्रयुक्त, as well as attaching अनुसूची eic.
EIC phases in धीरे, has a medium-length पठार, और then phases out more धीरे than it phased in.
चूंकि the credit phases out at 21 % ( लिये two children और लिये three or अधिक qualilfying children ) or 16 % ( for one qualifying child ), it is सदा preferable to have one more डालर of वास्तविक सैलरी or मजदूरी ( हालांकि technically, चूंकि the EIC table moves by fifty डालर increments, it 's सदा अस्तबलों to have an अतिरिक्त fifty-dollar increment of सैलरी or मजदूरी ).
For tax year 2011, the maximum eic लिये a single व्यक्ति or couple filing without qualifying children थी $ 464.
the maximum EIC with एक qualifying चाइल्ड थी $ 3,094, साथ दो children थी $ 5,112, और with तीन or अधिक qualifying children was $ 5,751.
These amounts are indexed annually लिये महंगाई.
The अर्जित आय कर क्रेडिट has महरूम भाग of राजनैतिक debates in the United राज्य regarding whether उठाने the minimum wage or increasing EIC will बेहतर पता a seeming shortage of good-paying कार्य.
The following is a list of halftime shows आयोजित at the National Football League 's चैंपियनशिप game, the Super Bowl.
While मध्यांतर shows are a tradition during football खेल at सब स्तर of प्रतियोगिता, the सुपर Bowl halftime show represents a fundamental link to pop culture, which helps broaden the टेलीविज़न audience और देशभर ब्याज.
In सबसे सालो चूंकि the mid-1980s, the मध्यांतर दिखाएँ of the सुपर कटोरी has featured popular recording कलाकारों और other well-known हस्तियाँ.
it has measurably increased टेलीविज़न viewers दौरान और बाद the halftime show.
The प्रदर्शन is regarded one of the most-watched events in American टेलीविज़न annually with over 100 million viewers in the United States अलोन.
musical genres over the सालो have represented a व्यापक दायरा of music प्रकार, सहित pop, चट्टान, classic चट्टान, country, hip hop, रैप, blues, and soul.
In some years, short skits or नाटक दृश्यों हैं acted out on a stage.
The performance समूह Up साथ People has performed at the सबसे Super Bowl halftime shows, starring in चार दौरान the 1970s and 1980s.
According to nielsen ratings, सुपर कटोरी XLVI halftime show headlined by Madonna in 2012 remains the most-watched halftime show in इतिहास, with 114 million दर्शक or about 3 million more than the वास्तविक game.
Beyonce 's 2013 मध्यांतर दिखाएँ प्रदर्शन was the second सबसे viewed दिखाएँ in history.
It is सूचीबद्ध on the Guinness World रिकॉर्ड as the largest TV audience for a Super Bowl half-time प्रदर्शन.
International मेन 's दिन ( IMD ) is an सालाना international event celebrated on 19th नवम्बर.
Inaugurated in 1999 in Trinidad और Tobago, the दिन and its कार्यक्रम find support इससे a किस्में of individuals and groups in Australia, the caribbean, North America, Asia, यूरोपीय और अफ़्रीकी.
Speaking on निमित्त of UNESCO, निदेशक of महिलाओं and Culture of Peace ingeborg Breines said of IMD, `` This is an excellent विचार और would give कुछ gender balance. ''
वो added कि UNESCO was looking forward to cooperating with the organizers.
The objectives of celebrating an International Men 's दिन include focusing on मेन 's and boys ' health, improving लिंग संबंध, promoting gender equality, and highlighting positive male role models.
It is an अवसर to highlight discrimination विरूद्ध मेन और boys and to celebrate उनके उपलब्धियाँ और योगदान, in particular for their योगदान to जातियाँ, family, marriage, and चाइल्ड care.
the broader and परम उद्देश्य of the event is to प्रचार basic humanitarian values.
अंतरराष्ट्रीय Men 's दिन is celebrated in over 60 देशों, सहित त्रिनिदाद and Tobago, Jamaica, Australia, India, China, संयुक्त States, रोमानिया, Singapore, Malta, United Kingdom, South Africa, Tanzania, ज़िम्बाब्वे, बोत्सवाना, Seychelles, Burundi, हंगेरियाई, Ireland, आइल of man, Ghana, कनाडा, डेनमार्क, नार्वे, Austria, Bosnia and हर्ज़ेगोविना, Ukraine, फ़्रांस, Italy, पाकिस्तानी, Cuba, अण्टीगुआ and Barbuda, st. Kitts and Nevis, St. लूसिया, Grenada and केमन Islands, on 19 नवम्बर, और वैश्विक support लिये the celebration is broad.
घाटी गाँव parkvalley
गाँव is a ज़िला in the San फर्नांडो घाटी region of लॉस Angeles, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
The median age of its population, at 36, is `` बूढ़ा for the city of लॉस एंजिल्स. '' और its average household size of two people is कम, compared to other भाग of the city.
developmental psychology is the scientific study of परिवर्तन कि occur in human beings over the कोर्स of उनके life span.
originally चिंतित with infants और children, the फ़ील्ड has expanded to शामिल adolescence, वयस्क development, वृद्धावस्था, और the entire जीवन span.
इस field examines बदलें across a broad range of विषय including मोटर कौशल और अन्य psycho-physiological प्रक्रियाओं ; संज्ञानात्मक development involving क्षेत्रों such as प्रॉब्लम solving, moral understanding, और conceptual समझना ; भाषा acquisition ; social, व्यक्तित्व, और emotional विकास ; और self-concept and पहचान formation.
developmental psychology includes issues ऐसे as the extent to जिससे development occurs through the gradual accumulation of ज्ञान बनाम stage-like विकास, or the extent to जिससे children हैं born with स्वाभाविक mental structures versus सीखना through experience.
Many researchers हैं interested in the interaction between personal characteristics, the individual 's behavior, and पर्यावरणीय कारकों सहित सोशल कॉन्टेक्स्ट, and उनके प्रभाव on development ; अन्य take a more narrowly-focused approach.
developmental psychology informs several लागू fields, including : शैक्षणिक psychology, child psychopathology, और forensic developmental psychology.
Developmental psychology complements several other मौलिक research fields in psychology including social psychology, संज्ञानात्मक psychology, ecological psychology, and तुलनात्मक psychology.
Joseph Michael `` Joey '' Stivic is a fictional अक्षर who first appeared on the 1970s अमरीकी sitcom सब in the Family.
जॉय Stivic थी the बेटे and only child of माइक Stivic ( played by रोब reiner ) and ग्लोरिया Stivic ( played by Sally struthers ), and the grandson of Archie Bunker ( Carroll O'Connor ) और Edith Bunker ( Jean Stapleton ).
The character first appeared as a newborn baby in a two-part episode of All in the Family जिससे aired in दिसम्बर 1975.
After अनेक appearances on सब in the Family until reiner और Struthers बाएँ the series in 1978 ( by कि time, जॉय था been निभाई सबसे प्रायः by alternating twins Jason and Justin draeger ), the Joey stivic character next appeared on the All in the परिवार spin-off श्रेणी ( कुछ कॉल it a continuation of the original ) Archie बंकर 's प्लेस in a guest appearance in the November 1979 episode `` Thanksgiving Reunion. ''
In this instance, the character थी निभाई by चाइल्ड actor Dick Billingsley और was appropriately pre-school आयु.
साथ ग्लोरिया now अलग from माइक, वो returned to आर्ची बंकर 's प्लेस with Joey in the February 1982 episode `` ग्लोरिया Comes Home. ''
In इस एपीसोड, Joey थी played by क्रिस्टोफर johnston.
Joey Stivic थी a नियमित character on the सब in the परिवार spin-off श्रेणी ग्लोरिया in 1982 और 1983.
On इस श्रेणी, in which the now-divorced ग्लोरिया Bunker character had moved to upstate नई यॉर्क in अनुक्रम to work as an assistant veterinarian, the part of Joey stivic थी played by ten-year-old कर्ता Christian Jacobs.
After ग्लोरिया was canceled in 1983, Joey Stivic disappeared from prime time टेलीविज़न लिये 11 years, जबतक the character made one पिछला रूप on 704 Hauser, a short-lived 1994 series about a black family who था moved into the बूढ़ा Bunker घर, सालो after Bunker had sold it.
In इस appearance, the Joey stivic character थी played by केसी Siemaszko, an actor born in 1961 ( 14 सालो पहले जॉय stivic 's fictional birth ).
In 1976 the Ideal खिलौना कम्पनी released a 14-inch `` Joey Stivic गुड़िया '' ( पुकारा `` आर्ची बंकर 's पोता '' ) which was billed as the `` first anatomically सही male गुड़िया. ''
the गुड़िया inspired mild विवाद at the time, and is a collectors ' item today.
the 2011 रोज़ Bowl was the 97th edition of the annual bowl खेल played on जनवरी 1, 2011, as भाग of the 2010 कॉलेज football season.
Played in pasadena, California, the TCU horned Frogs of the पहाड़ West सम्मेलन पराजित the विस्कॉन्सिन badgers of the Big टेन Conference by a स्कोर of 21 – 19.
The Pasadena Tournament of गुलाब Association was the आयोजक of the game.
vizio Inc. थी the corporate sponsor और the game was officially नामित `` the Rose Bowl खेल presented by vizio ''.
This game marked the पहला time a team इससे a non-Automatic qualifying Conference निभाई in, and जीती, the Rose Bowl in इसके 97 years.
The contest was ब्रॉडकास्ट on केबल टेलीविज़न स्टेशन ESPN साथ a radio broadcast on ईएसपीएन रेडियो and xm Satellite Radio और ESPN3 स्ट्रीमिंग video over the अंतरजाल.
कवरेज began at 1:30 pm ( PST ) साथ kickoff at 2:10 pm ( PST ).
इस चिह्नित the first time कि the game was नहीं broadcast nationally `` over-the-air '' ( terrestrial television ) since the खेल prior to the 1952 Rose कटोरी, which was the first nationally televised कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल game.
the Rose कटोरी Game, themed Building Dreams, Friendships, & यादें, was a contractual sell-out, with 64,500 tickets allocated to the participating teams and सम्मेलनों.
Ticket कीमतें for all सीटे in the रोज़ Bowl are listed at $ 145.
The remaining टिकटें गई to the टूर्नामेंट of Roses members, प्रायोजकों, City of Pasadena निवासियों, और the general पब्लिक.
The रोज़ Bowl stadium capacity is सूचीबद्ध at approximately 91,000.
The Declaration of स्वतंत्रता is a statement adopted by the महाद्वीपीय Congress on July 4, 1776, which announced that the thirteen American colonies, then at war with Great ब्रिटेन, regarded themselves as independent राज्य, और no longer a part of the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य.
Instead वे अभी formed a new nation—the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका.
John एडम्स was a नेता in pushing for स्वतंत्रता, which थी unanimously approved on जुलाई 2.
A committee था already drafted the formal घोषणा, to be तैयार जब कॉंग्रेस voted on independence.
Adams persuaded the committee to select Thomas Jefferson to लिखें the original ड्राफ्ट of the दस्तावेज़, which congress होता संपादन to उपज the final version.
the Declaration थी ultimately a formal explanation of क्यों Congress had voted on July 2 to declare स्वतंत्रता from Great ब्रिटेन, अधिक than a साल after the outbreak of the American क्रांतिकारी युद्ध.
The national जन्मदिवस, the स्वतंत्रता दिन is मनाये on जुलाई 4, although Adams चाही July 2.
बाद ratifying the text on July 4, Congress issued the Declaration of Independence in several फ़ॉर्म.
it was initially published as the printed डनलप broadside कि was widely distributed और पढ़ा to the पब्लिक.
The सबसे प्रसिद्ध version of the Declaration, a signed नक़ल that is popularly regarded as the घोषणा of Independence, is प्रदर्शित at the National Archives in Washington, d.c.
हालांकि the wording of the घोषणा was स्वीकृत on July 4, the date of its signing was अगस्त 2.
The असली जुलाई 4 संयुक्त राज्य Declaration of Independence manuscript was lost while all other नक़ल have महरूम निकला इससे this असली दस्तावेज़.
The sources और interpretation of the Declaration have महरूम the subject of much scholarly inquiry.
the घोषणा justified the independence of the United States by लिस्टिंग औपनिवेशिक grievances against King George iii, और by asserting certain natural and legal rights, सहित a सही of revolution.
Having परोसा its original purpose in announcing independence, the text of the घोषणा was initially उपेक्षित after the अमरीकी क्रान्ति.
चूंकि then, it has आइये to be considered a major statement on human rights, विशेषकर इसके second sentence:
we थाम these सच्चाई to be self-evident, कि सब men are created बराबर, कि वे are endowed by उनके Creator with निश्चित unalienable Rights, that among these हैं Life, Liberty और the pursuit of Happiness.
इस रै been पुकारा `` one of the best-known sentences in the अंग्रेज़ी भाषा '', containing `` the सबसे potent and consequential शब्द in अमरीकी इतिहास. ''
The passage came to represent a moral मानक to जिससे the संयुक्त States चाहिए नीयत.
इस view was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln, जो considered the घोषणा to be the foundation of his political philosophy, and argued कि the Declaration is a statement of सिद्धान्त through जिससे the United States Constitution चाहिए be interpreted.
It has inspired work लिये the rights of marginalized people throughout the संसार.
Chitty Chitty बंग बंग is a 1968 British musical film loosely based on Ian Fleming 's novel.
The film 's script is by Roald dahl और केन ह्यूजेस and इसके songs by the Sherman Brothers.
it stars लंड वैन Dyke as Caractacus potts and सैली Ann Howes as truly Scrumptious.
the film was directed by केन Hughes and उत्पादित by अल्बर्ट R. Broccoli ( co-producer of the James Bond श्रेणी of films, भी आधारित on Fleming 's novels ).
John Stears पर्यवेक्षित the खास प्रभाव.
इरविन kostal supervised and conducted the music, while the musical numbers यहूद staged by मार्क breaux and Dee Dee Wood.
a region is arid when it is characterized by a कठोर कमी of उपलब्धियाँ water, to the extent of hindering or preventing the growth and विकास of plant and animal life.
environments subject to arid climates tend to lack vegetation and are पुकारा xeric or desertic.
Most `` arid '' climates surround the equator ; these places include most of Africa और parts of South America and सेंट्रल America.
कर्कट ( ♋ ) is an astrological चिह्न, which is associated with the नक्षत्र Cancer.
it spans the 90-120th उपाधि of the zodiac, between 90 और 125.25 degree of celestial longitude, which the सूर्य transits this area on औसत between June 22 to जुलाई 22 प्रत्येक year.
और under the sidereal zodiac, it is फिलहाल from जुलाई 21 to अगस्त 9.
The संयुक्त States presidential चुनाव of 1960 थी the 44th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, आयोजित on Tuesday, नवम्बर 8, 1960.
The Republican Party nominated incumbent vice-president रिचर्ड निक्सन, while the Democratic Party मनोनीत John F. कैनेडी, सीनेटर इससे Massachusetts.
the लाज़िम President, Republican ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर, was not eligible for re-election after सेवारत the अधिकतम two terms अनुमत by the Twenty-second Amendment.
Kennedy थी elected with a lead of 112,827 मत, or 0.17 % of the लोकप्रिय vote, giving him a विजय of 303 to 219 in the चुनावी College, the closest since 1916.
This was the first election in which all fifty of the वर्तमान United States participated.
a number of factors explain क्यों the election थी so close.
Kennedy gained since there थी an economic मंदी which ठेस the लाज़िम Republican, and he had the advantage of 17 million more पंजीकृत Democrats than Republicans.
Furthermore, the नई मत कि कैनेडी gained among Catholics almost neutralized the new votes निक्सन gained among protestants.
कैनेडी 's campaigning skills decisively outmatched Nixon 's.
in the end, Nixon 's जोर on his experience carried छोटी weight, और he wasted उर्जा by campaigning in all 50 states बजाय of concentrating on the swing states.
Kennedy used उसके विशाल, well-funded campaign संगठन to win the नामांकन, secure endorsements, and, with the सहायता of the last of the big-city bosses, to get आउट the vote in the big cities.
He relied on running mate lyndon B. जॉनसन to थाम the दक्षिण और प्रयुक्त television effectively.
इस election is notable as being the पहला समय in U.S. history that two sitting U.S. Senators ( Kennedy and Johnson ) यहूद elected as अध्यक्ष and vice-president, a phenomenon that has been repeated एकबार, by बराक Obama और Joe बिडेन in 2008 ( in both cases, the president was the younger, अधिक junior सीनेटर ).
Sherwood is a नगर in Washington काउंटी, Oregon, संयुक्त राज्य.
Located in the southeast corner of the county, it is a residential community in the Tualatin Valley southwest of Portland.
the population was 11,791 at the 2000 census.
According to the 2010 census, the जनसांख्यिकी was 18,205 निवासियों.
indirectly named लिये the Sherwood वन in England, it was पहला incorporated in 1893 as a town.
the USA patriot Act of 2001 is an Act of the U.S. Congress that थी हस्ताक्षरित into law by अध्यक्ष George W. Bush on अक्तूबर 26, 2001.
The title of the अधिनियम is a ten letter acronym ( यूएसए patriot ) that stands लिये uniting ( और ) strengthening America ( by ) Providing Appropriate टूल्स Required ( to ) इंटरफेस ( and ) Obstruct आतंक Act of 2001.
The act, as a response to the आतंकवादी attacks of September 11th, significantly reduced प्रतिबंध in विधि enforcement agencies ' gathering of intelligence within the United राज्य ; विस्तारित the सचिव of the Treasury’s authority to regulate financial transactions, particularly those involving foreign individuals और entities ; and broadened the discretion of law enforcement और आव्रजन authorities in निमाड़ और deporting आप्रवासियों suspected of terrorism-related acts.
The act भी expanded the definition of terrorism to शामिल domestic terrorism, यूँ enlarging the क्रमांक of क्रियाएँ to जिससे the यूएसए patriot Act’s विस्तारित law प्रवर्तन powers can be लागू.
on may 26, 2011, President Barack Obama used an Autopen to चिह्न the PATRIOT Sunsets Extension Act of 2011, a four-year extension of three key provisions in the USA PATRIOT Act while he थी in फ़्रांस : roving wiretaps, खोज of कारोबार records ( the `` library records provision `` ), and conducting surveillance of `` lone wolves '' — individuals suspected of terrorist-related क्रियाएँ not linked to terrorist समूह.
Republican नेताओ questioned if the use of the Autopen met the संवैधानिक आवश्यकताएँ लिये signing a bill into law.
a house in Queen Anne स्टाइल at 223 Avenue a.
Snohomish is a city in snohomish County, वॉशिंगटन, United राज्य.
The population थी 9,098 at the 2010 census.
the mayor of Snohomish is karen Guzak, and the नगर Manager is Larry bauman.
Snohomish prides itself लिये इसके historical शहर, और was once known लिये its अनेक antique दुकानें when it was known as the `` पुरातन Capital of the उत्तरपश्चिम. ''
The historic business and residential center of the कस्बा constitutes the Snohomish Historic ज़िला, जिससे is सूचीबद्ध on the National Register of Historic स्थान.
अनेक घरों भालू plaques with the year the house was built and the नाम of the family or individual who originally occupied it.
Once every साल, the city देता टुर of the historic घरों ; एक of उन्हें, the blackman हाउस, is a year-round museum.
A सामान्य विमानन एयरफील्ड, घनघोर Airfield, is less than one मील southwest of Downtown Snohomish.
डेव matthews बैंड ( DMB ) is an अमरीकी rock band that was formed in Charlottesville, वर्जिनिया, संयुक्त States, in 1991.
The founding members were singer-songwriter और guitarist Dave matthews, bassist Stefan Lessard, drummer /backing vocalist Carter beauford and saxophonist leroi मूर.
boyd tinsley was added to the band as a violinist soon after the बैंड was formed.
Moore died suddenly in August 2008 due to जटिलताओं from injuries sustained in an ATV accident.
GRAMMY Award -winner जेफ़ Coffin of Béla Fleck and the flecktones रै चूंकि filled Moore 's स्पॉट as the बैंड 's saxophonist.
Rashawn रॉस और Tim Reynolds have भी become full-time touring members of the band.
The बैंड 's 2009 एल्बम बिग Whiskey and the groogrux King ( the पहला album since Moore 's death ) debuted at number one on the बिलबोर्ड 200, earning the band उनके fifth consecutive number-one debut— making उन्हें the दूसरी band behind मेटालिका to do so.
उनके most हाल album, दूर इससे the World, was released in 2012, and also debuted at number one on the बिलबोर्ड चार्ट.
as of 2010, the डेव matthews Band रै बेची over 30 million रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी.
the बैंड is known लिये their सालाना summer-long tours of the United राज्य and यूरोपीय, featuring lengthy improvisational renditions of their गीतों, accompanied by an elaborate video और lighting show.
This portion of the tour रै become a stamp of DMB and रै grown with the band since fenton विलियम्स began working साथ उन्हें in the जल्दी 1990s.
बाद twenty लगातार सालो of touring the band announced that it होता take the summer of 2011 बंद.
Dave matthews Band रै won one ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, और was awarded the NAACP Chairman 's Award.
according to Julian Bond, `` वे sell out the largest arenas on Earth, but अक्सर give उनके music away. ''
अनुभवातीत जंगली Oats : A अध्याय from an Unwritten रोमांस is a prose satire लिखा by Louisa May alcott, about her family 's involvement साथ the transcendentalist जातियाँ fruitlands in the early 1840s.
The कार्य was first प्रकाशित in a नई York newspaper in 1873, and reprinted in 1874, 1876, and 1915 and after.
In her account, alcott provides the रियल लोगों involved साथ thin pseudonymous disguises.
Her father अमोस bronson Alcott is `` Abel Lamb, '' जबकि उसके संगी और जातियाँ co-founder Charles Lane is `` Timon Lion ; '' Abigail May Alcott, Louisa 's mother and bronson 's wife, is `` सिस्टर Hope. ''
alcott depicts her father as dominated by his अधिक forceful partner, और दोनो men as feckless and impractical dreamers.
The men of the community spend their time in pointless debates while सिस्टर Hope works इससे भोर to dusk to maintain उनके existence.
A crisis arises at harvest time, जब the grain crop is threatened by an approaching तूफ़ान.
In Alcott 's words, `` About the time the अनाज was ready to हाउस, कुछ call of the Oversoul wafted सब the men दूर. ''
Sister Hope organizes the तभी उपलब्धियाँ सहायता, तीन छोटी girls and a boy, और manages to सहेजें the क्रॉप.
The little जातियाँ collapses as जल्द as the weather turns cold, जब it becomes साफ that their provisions हैं too meager to last the coming winter.
Timon शेर और his बेटे abscond to जुड़ें the Shakers — though timon is unhappy to learn कि life among them is `` सब work and no खेल. ''
abel is crushed by the विफलता of the enterprise ; after days of despair he begins to खा again तभी जब he realizes that his परिवार needs उसे.
सिस्टर Hope पाता a रास्ता लिये उन्हें to subsist और persevere.
Alcott 's दृश्य of पुरूष arrogance and मादा exploitation in this piece is paralleled in her अनोखा, प्रकाशित in the वही year as `` अनुभवातीत जंगली Oats. ''
`` अनुभवातीत Wild Oats '' has महरूम reprinted in अनेक modern editions.
माउंट of the Holy क्रॉस is the northernmost 14,000-foot mountain in the Sawatch दायरा, भाग of the Rocky Mountains in Colorado.
it is स्तिथ in the पावन क्रॉस Wilderness near the भुत कस्बा of Holy Cross City और in Eagle County.
It was named लिये the distinctive cross-shaped snowfield on the पूर्वोत्तर फेस.
Under USDA Forest Service प्रशासन, the mountain was proclaimed `` Holy Cross नेशनल स्मारक '' by Herbert हूवर on may 11, 1929.
the स्मारक was transferred to the National Park सेवा in 1933.
in 1950, it थी लौटे to the Forest सेवा और खोया its National स्मारक status—the क्रमांक of visitors to the mountain और the nearby `` pilgrim 's Hut '' था waned, और the expense of full-time स्टाफ could not be justified.
This mountain has been the subject of painters, photographers and भी a poem by Henry वाड्सवर्थ Longfellow, ( The क्रॉस of हिम ).
the first सरेआम उपलब्धियाँ फोटोग्राफ was प्रकाशित in National भौगोलिक पत्रिका.
Thomas मोरान depicted the mountain in an oil painting, जिससे अभी is part of the संग्रहण of the Museum of the American West, भाग of the Autry नेशनल बीच in लॉस एंजिल्स, California.
It is स्टिल much photographed but it is not as well ज्ञात आज as it was in the पास्ट.
आसपास सुविधाएँ include कटोरी of आंसू Lake, सीधे under the east face of the peak, tuhare Lakes, in a cirque that झूठ south of a significant subpeak, and अनेक other lakes.
Notable स्थितियाँ भीतर include the dotsero ज्वालामुखी ( निकट Interstate 70 ), vail और Aspen.
US 24 रनों निकट the peak through Gilman.
photochrom छपाई of Mount of the Holy Cross c. 1900.
This image is a reversed view of the mountain compared to how it दरअसल appears.
The first recorded ascent of Holy क्रॉस was in 1873, by F. V. Hayden और photographer W. H. जैक्सन दौरान one of hayden 's geographical सर्वेक्षण.
However, the peak may well have been ascended previously by miners or American इंडियंस.
the पहला शीत ascent of the peak was बना in 1943 by Russel Keene and Howard Freedman of the 10th Mountain Division, then stationed at Camp Hale.
पावन क्रॉस can be climbed by at least four अलग routes, with the easiest और सबसे आम रूट होने the North लकीरें, which involves of लंबवत gain over and is rated YDS Class 2 लिये मॉडरेट scrambling.
The Cross Couloir route फ़ॉर्म the लंबवत portion of the famous क्रॉस विशेषता, और provides an उन्नत हिम climb or extreme ski descent.
Mount of the Holy क्रॉस has a इतिहास of endangering the जीवनदान of many hikers.
Primarily, the hikers जो आवश्यकता rescue हैं unfamiliar साथ the risks of entering wilderness क्षेत्रों and do नहीं लाओ adequate उपकरण and supplies to respond to आपात conditions.
Although the समिट on Mount of the Holy Cross is अक्सर reached on a long day hike, unprepared hikers are frequently stranded or खोया due to changing environmental शर्तें and confusion regarding the surrounding लैंडस्केप, especially on the descent of उत्तर Ridge.
Thorough शोध और reasonable planning should prevent most tragedies.
Mount of the Holy cross is accessible from tigiwon सड़क, south of minturn, Colorado.
The हाफ Moon Pass Trail is the standard route to the summit of Mount of the पावन क्रॉस via the North लकीरें.
following the Fall क्रीक ट्रेल to an ascent of Notch Mountain ट्रेल provides the best दृश्य of the Holy Cross snow feature from Notch Mountain लकीरें.
The जीएसएम logo is used to identify compatible handsets and उपकरण
GSM ( Global System लिये Mobile Communications, originally ' ), is a standard set विकसित by the European Telecommunications Standards Institute ( etsi ) to describe protocols लिये second generation ( 2g ) digital cellular networks used by mobile फोन.
It became the de facto global standard for mobile communications with over 80 % market share.
The जीएसएम standard was developed as a replacement for पहला पीढी ( 1G ) analog cellular संजाल, और originally वर्णित a digital, सर्किट switched संजाल optimized लिये full duplex voice telephony.
इस was expanded over time to include आंकड़ा communications, पहला by circuit switched हस्तांतरण, then packet आंकड़ा transport via gprs ( General Packet Radio सेवाएं ) और किनारे ( Enhanced Data rates लिये GSM Evolution or EGPRS ).
further improvements यहूद बना जब the 3gpp विकसित third पीढी ( 3g ) UMTS मानकों followed by चौथी पीढी ( 4g ) LTE Advanced standards.
`` जीएसएम '' is a trademark owned by the GSM Association.
अध्यक्ष Franklin D. Roosevelt signs the lend-lease bill to give सहायता to Britain and चीन ( 1941 )
The Lend Lease act थी an अधिनियम जहाँ the United राज्य had समर्थित its allies.
Lend-Lease ( ) was the विधि कि प्रारंभ a program अंतर्गत which the United States of America supplied the United Kingdom, the ussr, गणतंत्र of China, फ़्री France, and other Allied राष्ट्र with materiel between 1941 and 1945.
it was signed into विधि on कूच 11, 1941, a year और a half after the outbreak of World War II in Europe in September 1939.
इस was nine months before the u.S. entered the युद्ध in December 1941.
Formally titled an Act to Further प्रचार the Defense of the संयुक्त States, the अधिनियम effectively ended the संयुक्त States ' pretense of neutrality.
A total of $ 50.1 billion ( समतुल्य to $ today ) worth of supplies यहूद shipped : $ 31.4 अरब to Britain, $ 11.3 billion to the Soviet Union, $ 3.2 billion to France, $ 1.6 billion to China, and छोटी रकम to अन्य allies.
Reverse Lend-Lease comprised services ऐसे as rent on एयर bases कि went to the u.S., and totaled $ 7.8 अरब ; of इस, $ 6.8 अरब came from the अंग्रेजों and the Commonwealth.
The terms of the अनुबंध provided that the materiel थी to be used until time लिये उनके वापसी or destruction.
Supplies बाद the termination तिथि were sold to Britain at a विशाल छूट लिये £1.075 अरब using long-term loans from the United States.
कनाडा operated a समान कार्यक्रम that sent $ 4.7 billion in आपूर्तियाँ to the United Kingdom and the सोवियत संघ.
The United राज्य did नहीं चार्ज लिये सहायता supplied अंतर्गत इस विधान.
इस program थी a decisive step away इससे non-interventionist नीति, which had वर्चस्व United States foreign relations चूंकि the end of संसार युद्ध i, towards international भागीदारी.
The जेरूसलम artichoke ( Helianthus tuberosus ), भी called sunroot, sunchoke, धरती ठहराना or topinambour, is a species of sunflower native to eastern North America, और found इससे eastern Canada and Maine west to उत्तर डकोटा, और दक्षिण to उत्तरी Florida and Texas.
it is also cultivated widely आरपार the शीतोष्ण zone लिये its tuber, जिससे is used as a root vegetable.
कैस्टिलो सैन Felipe del morro भी known as फोर्ट San Felipe del Morro or Morro Castle, is a 16th-century citadel स्तिथ in San Juan, प्यूर्टो रीको.
Stonehenge is a प्रागैतिहासिक monument in Wiltshire, इंग्लैण्ड, about west of amesbury and north of salisbury.
One of the most famous sites in the world, Stonehenge is the remains of a ring of खड़ा stones नियत within earthworks.
it is in the middle of the most घना complex of पाषाणकालीन and Bronze आयु स्मारक in England, सहित अनेक सौ burial mounds.
archaeologists believe it थी built anywhere इससे 3000 BC to 2000 BC.
Radiocarbon dating in 2008 suggested that the पहला stones were उठाया between 2400 और 2200 BC, whilst another theory suggests that bluestones may have been उठाया at the साईट as early as 3000 BC.
The surrounding circular earth bank and ditch, जिससे constitute the earliest phase of the monument, have महरूम दिनाँक to परिचय 3100 bc.
The साईट और its surroundings were added to the UNESCO 's list of World Heritage साइट in 1986 in a co-listing with avebury Henge.
It is a national legally सुरक्षित अनुसूचित प्राचीन Monument.
Stonehenge is owned by the Crown and managed by अंग्रेज़ी Heritage, while the surrounding land is स्वामित्व by the नेशनल Trust.
Archaeological evidence found by the stonehenge Riverside Project in 2008 indicates that Stonehenge could have been a दफ़न मैदान इससे its earliest beginnings.
The dating of cremated remains found on the site indicate कि deposits contain human bone इससे as जल्दी as 3000 bc, जब the खाई and bank were first dug.
ऐसे deposits continued at stonehenge लिये at least another 500 years.
The साईट is a place of religious significance and pilgrimage in Neo-Druidry.
The ncaa महिलाओं 's Division I Championship is an सालाना college basketball tournament लिये women.
Held प्रत्येक April, the महिलाओं 's Championship थी उदघाटन in the 1981–82 ऋतु.
the ncaa tournament थी preceded by the AIAW Women 's Basketball Tournament, which थी आयोजित annually from 1972 to 1982.
Basketball was one of twelve women 's sports added to the NCAA championship program for the 1981-82 school year, as the NCAA engaged in बैटल साथ the संघ for intercollegiate Athletics for महिलाओं for sole governance of महिलाओं 's collegiate sports.
The AIAW continued to conduct its established चैंपियनशिप program in the वही बारह ( and other ) खेल ; however, after a साल of dual women 's championships, the NCAA prevailed, while the aiaw disbanded.
उपस्थिति और interest in the महिलाओं 's प्रभाग i Championship have grown over the years, especially since 2003, when the फाइनल चैंपियनशिप खेल was स्थानांतरित to the मंगलवार following the सोमवार मेन 's चैंपियनशिप game.
The women 's championship खेल is now the final overall game of the college बास्केट season.
पहले that, the महिलाओं 's Final चार was प्रायः played on the शुक्रवार पहले the मेन 's Final Four or the hours पहले the men निभाई on the final शनिवार of the tournament.
The final was usually played the Sunday दोपहर following the मेन 's Final चार.
The tournament bracket is बना up of champions इससे each प्रभाग I सम्मेलन, which receive automatic bids.
The remaining slots are at-large bids, साथ teams chosen by an NCAA चयन कमेटी.
The चयन process और tournament seedings are based on अनेक कारकों, including team rankings, win-loss रिकॉर्ड and दरजा Percentage Index ( rpi ) data.
नापसंद the मेन 's tournament, there are तभी 32 at-large bids ( as of the next tournament in 2014 ), and no play-in खेल.
The women 's टूर्नामेंट, जैसे the men 's, is staged in a single विलोपन स्वरूप, and is part of the media और public frenzy known colloquially as March दीवानगी or the Big Dance.
All 63 games have महरूम broadcast on television since 2003 on ईएसपीएन and ESPN2.
Similar to the pre-2011 men 's टूर्नामेंट coverage on CBS, local teams हैं shown on each चैनल जब available, with `` whip-around '' coverage designed to शोकेस the most competitive प्रतियोगिताओं in the बाकी of the country.
The rosetta Stone in the British संग्रहालय
The Rosetta Stone is an ancient Egyptian granodiorite stele inscribed with a decree issued at मेम्फिस in 196 BC on निमित्त of King Ptolemy v.
The decree appears in three scripts : the अपर text is Ancient मिश्र hieroglyphs, the middle portion Demotic script, and the न्यूनतम प्राचीन यूनानी.
क्युकी it presents essentially the same टेक्स्ट in all तीन scripts ( साथ some नाबालिग differences between उन्हें ), it provided the कुंजी to the modern understanding of Egyptian hieroglyphs.
Originally displayed within a temple, the stone थी संभवतः स्थानांतरित दौरान the early Christian or medieval काल और eventually प्रयुक्त as building material in the निर्माण of Fort Julien निकट the town of रशीद ( Rosetta ) in the nile Delta.
It थी rediscovered there in 1799 by a soldier, Pierre-François Bouchard, of the फ्रेंच expedition to मिश्र.
As the first Ancient मिश्र bilingual text recovered in modern times, the Rosetta स्टोन aroused फैली पब्लिक interest with its potential to decipher this hitherto untranslated ancient language.
Lithographic नक़ल and प्लास्टर casts began circulating among European museums and scholars.
Meanwhile, British troops defeated the French in Egypt in 1801, और the original stone came into British कब्ज़ा under the Capitulation of एलेक्जेंड्रिया.
transported to London, it रै महरूम on public display at the British संग्रहालय since 1802.
it is the most-visited ऑब्जेक्ट in the अंग्रेजों संग्रहालय.
कभी चूंकि its rediscovery, the स्टोन has been the focus of nationalist rivalries, including its transfer इससे फ्रेंच to अंग्रेजों possession during the Napoleonic Wars, a long-running विवाद over the सापेक्ष मान of Young 's और champollion 's contributions to the decipherment, and since 2003, demands for the stone 's return to मिश्र.
पढ़ाई of the डिक्री was already under रास्ता as the first full translation of the Greek text appeared in 1803.
it was 20 years, however, before the लिप्यन्तरण of the Egyptian स्क्रिप्ट थी घोषित by jean-françois champollion in Paris in 1822 ; it took longer still before विद्वानों यहूद able to पढ़ा Ancient मिश्र inscriptions और literature confidently.
प्रमुख अग्रिम in the decoding were : मान्यता कि the स्टोन offered तीन versions of the same टेक्स्ट ( 1799 ) ; कि the demotic टेक्स्ट प्रयुक्त phonetic वर्ण to spell विदेशी names ( 1802 ) ; कि the hieroglyphic टेक्स्ट did so as खूब, and had pervasive similarities to the demotic ( Thomas Young, 1814 ) ; and that, in addition to होने प्रयुक्त for foreign names, ध्वन्यात्मक वर्ण यहूद also used to spell देशी Egyptian words ( champollion, 1822–1824 ).
Two other fragmentary copies of the same डिक्री were discovered later, और अनेक similar Egyptian bilingual or trilingual inscriptions are अभी ज्ञात, सहित दो slightly पहले Ptolemaic decrees ( the डिक्री of Canopus in 238 bc, और the मेम्फिस decree of टॉलेमी iv, ca. 218 BC ).
the Rosetta Stone is therefore no longer unique, लकिन it थी the essential कुंजी to modern समझना of Ancient Egyptian साहित्य और सभ्यता.
The term Rosetta Stone is now प्रयुक्त in other contexts as the name लिये the essential clue to a new फ़ील्ड of knowledge.
Poison dart frog ( भी dart-poison frog, ज़हर frog or formerly poison तीर frog ) is the common नाम of a समूह of मेंढक in the परिवार Dendrobatidae जिससे are native to Central and South America.
These प्रजाति हैं diurnal और often have brightly colored लाशें.
Although all जंगली dendrobatids हैं at तनिक somewhat toxic, स्तर of toxicity vary considerably from one species to the next and from one जनसांख्यिकी to another.
अनेक प्रजाति are threatened.
These amphibians are प्रायः पुकारा `` dart मेंढक '' due to the amerindians ' indigenous उपयोग of उनके to poison the नुस्ख़े of blowdarts.
however, of over 175 species, only four have been documented as being प्रयुक्त for this purpose ( curare plants हैं more commonly प्रयुक्त ), all of जिससे come इससे the Phyllobates genus, which is characterized by the अपेक्षाकृत large size and high स्तर of toxicity of इसके members.
Cajeta is a मैक्सिकन confection of thickened syrup usually made of sweetened caramelised मिल्क.
according to chef Rick Bayless, the name for cajeta आए इससे the Spanish phrase al punto de cajeta, जिससे means `` a द्रव thickened to the point at जिससे a spoon drawn through the liquid reveals the bottom of the घट in जिससे it is being cooked ''.
Another परिकल्पना is that it takes its name from the small लकड़ी boxes in which it was traditionally packed.
मैक्सिकन cajeta is माना a specialty of the city of Celaya in the state of Guanajuato, although it is also produced साथ the traditional method in अनेक towns of the राज्य of jalisco, such as Mazamitla, sayula, और atotonilco el Alto.
Cajeta is बना by simmering बकरी 's milk, or occasionally a sweetened liquid, stirring frequently, जबतक it becomes बहुत viscous due to evaporation of water, and caramelized.
जबकि goat milk is the most usual आधार, other liquids or juices may be used.
In Celaya, and आखिरकार the rest of Mexico, the confection of half goat 's milk और हाफ गाय 's milk became ज्ञात by the name cajeta, लकिन elsewhere, the milk कैंडी became known as leche quemada, dulce de leche, etc.
It रै cousins in the many भारतीय milk-based sweets like pera और the milk फ़ज burfi, and in the ओपेरा fudge of the u.S. Cajeta is खाया on its own as a sweet, as a स्प्रेड or भरना लिये breads and pastries, such as churros, और as a topping लिये ice cream.
Certain liquors हैं added to special recipes called cajeta envinada.
in जोड, cajeta envinada especial is समृद्ध साथ किशमिश, almonds, pecans or nuts.
प्रायः it is प्रयुक्त as a topping for crêpes, as a sweet sauce boiled and softened bas with milk to soak the crepes, resulting in a tasty मिठाई.
in Mexico अनेक brands make cajeta but the सबसे common brand is coronado.
It is also बहुत common to प्लेस cajeta between obleas to make a traditional Mexican dessert.
प्रिंस William, Duke of Cambridge ( William Arthur Philip Louis ; born 21 जून 1982 ), is the elder son of Charles, प्रिंस of वेल्स, और Diana, Princess of वेल्स, और third-eldest grandchild of महारानी Elizabeth II और Prince फिलिप, ड्यूक of Edinburgh.
He is दूसरी in the लकीर of succession, behind उसके father, to the thrones of सोलह independent sovereign राज्य known as the राष्ट्रमंडल realms : the संयुक्त Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, जमैका, Barbados, The बहामा, Grenada, Papua नई Guinea, the Solomon Islands, तुवालू, संत Lucia, संत विंसेंट and the grenadines, बेलीज़, अण्टीगुआ और Barbuda, and Saint किट्स and Nevis.
प्रिंस विलियम थी शिक्षित at चार schools in the United Kingdom और प्राप्त a उपाधि from the विश्वविद्यालयों of St एंड्रयूज.
He spent parts of a gap year in चिली, बेलीज़, Tanzania, और Kenya where he रै lived और holidayed several times.
Prince William रै also taken kiswahili अध्ययन at universities in कीनिया और तंजानिया.
He थी commissioned as a लेफ्टिनेंट in the Blues and Royals रेजीमेंट of the household प्यादे —serving साथ his brother Prince हैरी —and, two years later, अर्जित उसके wings by completing पायलट प्रशिक्षण at Royal एयर Force College Cranwell.
In 2009, he transferred to the Royal Air Force, was promoted to Flight Lieutenant and underwent helicopter flying प्रशिक्षण in order to become a full-time pilot with the Search and Rescue फ़ोर्स.
In 2010, he completed उसके general and special-to-type हेलीकाप्टर training और गई on to RAF Valley on no. 22 Squadron performing co-pilot duties on board a Sea King search and rescue हेलीकाप्टर.
Prince विलियम शादीशुदा his longtime गर्लफ्रेंड, Catherine मिडलटन, on 29 अप्रैल 2011 at Westminster Abbey.
घंटों prior to उसके wedding, प्रिंस William was created ड्यूक of Cambridge, Earl of Strathearn, और Baron Carrickfergus.
माली is a बहुभाषी country.
The languages spoken वहीँ प्रतिबिंबित प्राचीन settlement patterns, migrations, and its long इतिहास.
ऍथनोलॉग रिश्तो 50 भाषाएं.
Of ये, फ्रेंच is the आधिकारिक भाषा और bambara is the सबसे widely spoken.
altogether 13 of the indigenous languages of माली have the विधिक status of नेशनल भाषा.
चिह्न in French, at a monument in Bamako.
{ { Infobox Holiday
Chinese नई साल
9 – 12 फ़रवरी ( Vietnam )
Rogers भवन, the headquarters of Rogers Communications
Rogers Communications inc. is a diversified public Canadian communications और media कम्पनी.
it is विशेषकर in the field of बेतार communications, cable टेलीविज़न, टेलीफोन, और Internet कनेक्टिविटी साथ significant additional telecommunications और द्रव्यमान मीडिया एसेट.
The company is headquartered in the Rogers Building in टोरंटो, Ontario.
the company claims the heritage of the रोजर्स Vacuum Tube Company, founded in 1925 by एडवर्ड Rogers, which प्रारंभ the CFRB रेडियो station in Toronto, which was later acquired by बाहर interests.
The उपस्थित enterprise dates to 1960, जब रोजर्स ' son, Ted Rogers, founded Rogers Radio Broadcasting ltd.
कि कम्पनी acquired CHFI that साल, as well as Aldred-Rogers Broadcasting, a साझेदारी with जोएल aldred which helped launch cfto in 1961.
रोजर्स later खरीदा out Aldred and started the वर्तमान cable और wireless operations, known as रोजर्स Cablesystems Ltd.
the chief प्रतिस्पर्धी to the company is Bell Canada, which रै a similarly extensive portfolio of radio and टेलीविज़न media assets, as well as wireless, television वितरण, and टेलीफोन सेवाएं, particularly in पूर्वी and सेंट्रल Canada ; the दो companies हैं प्रायः देखी as having a duopoly on communications सेवाएं in their regions.
However, the कम्पनी भी competes nationally with telus लिये बेतार सेवाएं, and primarily indirectly with Shaw संचार for टेलीविज़न सेवा.
The कम्पनी भी competes with a number of other मीडिया companies in the broadcasting industry.
the Internet is a वैश्विक system of interconnected computer संजाल that use the मानक अंतरजाल protocol सुइट ( TCP/IP ) to serve अरबों of users worldwide.
it is a संजाल of networks that consists of millions of private, public, अकादमिक, business, and government संजाल, of local to वैश्विक पैमाना, कि हैं linked by a broad array of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक, बेतार और optical नेटवर्किंग technologies.
The Internet carries an extensive range of सूचना संसाधन and services, ऐसे as the inter-linked hypertext documents of the संसार Wide वेब ( www ) and the infrastructure to support ईमेल.
Most traditional communications media सहित telephone, म्यूज़िक, फिल्मी, and television are being reshaped or redefined by the Internet, giving birth to new services ऐसे as voice over Internet प्रोटोकॉल ( VoIP ) और अंतरजाल Protocol television ( IPTV ).
Newspaper, book and अन्य print publishing are adapting to Web site technology, or are reshaped into blogging and web feeds.
The Internet has enabled और त्वरित new फ़ॉर्म of human interactions through instant messaging, अंतरजाल forums, and सोशल नेटवर्किंग.
ऑनलाइन खरीदारी has boomed both लिये major retail आउटलेट और छोटी artisans and व्यापारियों.
Business-to-business and financial सेवाएं on the Internet affect supply chains across संपूर्ण उद्योग.
The origins of the Internet पहुँचें वापस to research commissioned by the United States government in the 1960s to build मजबूत, fault-tolerant communication via कंप्यूटर networks.
The funding of a new u.S. backbone by the नेशनल Science Foundation in the 1980s, as well as private funding लिये अन्य वाणिज्यिक backbones, led to worldwide भागीदारी in the development of नई नेटवर्किंग technologies, and the merger of many संजाल.
The commercialization of what was by the 1990s an international संजाल resulted in इसके popularization and incorporation into virtually प्रत्येक पहलू of modern human जीवन.
, more than 2.4 billion people—over a third of the world 's human जनसांख्यिकी —have प्रयुक्त the services of the अंतरजाल ; लगभग 100 टाइम्स more people than were using it in 1995, जब it was ज़्यादातर used by tech-savvy middle and अपर क्लास people in the संयुक्त States and several अन्य countries.
The Internet has no centralized शासन in either technological क्रियान्वयन or policies लिये अभिगम and usage ; each constituent network सेट इसके own नीतियों.
Only the overreaching परिभाषाएं of the two principal नाम spaces in the अंतरजाल, the अंतरजाल Protocol address space and the Domain Name प्रणाली, हैं निर्देशित by a maintainer organization, the अंतरजाल Corporation for Assigned names and संख्याएँ ( ICANN ).
The technical underpinning and मानकीकरण of the core protocols ( IPv4 and IPv6 ) is an कार्यकलाप of the Internet Engineering Task Force ( ietf ), a non-profit संगठन of loosely affiliated अंतरराष्ट्रीय participants कि anyone may associate with by contributing तकनीकी विशेषज्ञता.
The 2006 शीत Olympics, officially ज्ञात as the XX Olympic Winter Games, थी a शीत multi-sport इवेंट which was celebrated in Turin, Italy from February 10, 2006, through February 26, 2006.
This चिह्नित the second समय इटली hosted the ओलम्पिक Winter Games, the first होने the VII Olympic Winter Games in cortina d'Ampezzo in 1956.
Italy भी hosted the खेल of the XVII Olympiad in रोम in 1960.
टोरीनो was चयनित as the मेजबान नगर लिये the 2006 खेल in 1999.
The आधिकारिक logo displayed the नाम `` टोरिनो '', the Italian नाम of the city ; the city is known as `` Turin '' in दोनो English and the लोकल traditional language, pms.
the ओलम्पिक mascots of Torino 2006 were neve ( `` snow '' in इतालवी ), a मादा snowball, and Gliz, a पुरूष ice cube.
the आधिकारिक motto of the XX ओलम्पिक Winter Games थी `` जुनून lives here ''.
`` Help ! '' is a song by the बीटल्स that served as the title song for both the 1965 फिल्मी और its soundtrack एल्बम.
It was also released as a single, and was क्रमांक one for three सप्ताह in दोनो the United राज्य और the संयुक्त Kingdom.
`` सहायता ! '' was written primarily by जॉन Lennon, लकिन credited to Lennon–McCartney.
दौरान an interview साथ प्लेबॉय in 1984, पॉल McCartney stated that the शीर्षक थी `` आउट of छटपटाहट ''.
पोस्टर for the 2005 exhibition
Siegfried bing ( 26 फ़रवरी 1838 – 6 सितंबर 1905 ), जो प्रायः gave his नाम as S. Bing, और थी यूँ often संदर्भित erroneously as `` Samuel Bing '' ( Samuel ओटो bing, 1850–1905, थी उसके bhai ) was a German art dealer who lived in Paris as an वयस्क, और who helped introduce जापानी art और artworks to the वेस्ट और was a फ़ैक्टर in the development of the Art Nouveau स्टाइल दौरान the late nineteenth century.
तुलना of male and female जीवन expectancy at birth लिये देशों और territories as पारिभाषित in the 2011 CIA factbook, with selected बुलबुले labelled.
the dotted लकीर corresponds to बराबर female and male life expectancy.
The apparent 3d volumes of the बुलबुले are linearly आंशिक to their जनसांख्यिकी.
इस is a सूची of countries by life प्रत्याशा at birth.
kennewick is a city in Benton काउंटी in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of Washington, निकट the hanford नाभिकीय site.
It is the most populous of the three शहरों collectively referred to as the Tri-Cities ( the others being Pasco और Richland ).
Kennewick is located साथ the southwest bank of the Columbia River, विपरीत Pasco and just south of the confluence of the Columbia और yakima नदियाँ.
the population was 73,917 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
अप्रैल 1, 2012 estimates इससे the Washington राज्य Office of वित्तीय Management put the city 's जनसांख्यिकी at 75,160.
the nearest commercial विमानक्षेत्र is the tri-cities Airport in Pasco, a regional commercial और private विमानक्षेत्र.
Forbes magazine named Kennewick the # 2 area in the संयुक्त States for जॉब growth, जबकि आसपास yakima was named # 1.
The article cites the number of वैज्ञानिकों employed by the Pacific उत्तरपश्चिम National Laboratory और area farmland for this outlook.
the prothrombin time ( pt ) and इसके derived उपायों of prothrombin ratio ( PR ) और international normalized ratio ( INR ) हैं उपायों of the extrinsic pathway of coagulation.
This test is भी पुकारा `` protime INR '' and `` PT/INR ''.
They are used to determine the clotting tendency of blood, in the measure of warfarin dosage, liver damage, and विटामिन K status.
pt measures factors I ( फाइब्रिनोजेन ), ii ( prothrombin ), v, VII, and X.
it is प्रयुक्त in conjunction with the activated partial thromboplastin समय ( aPTT ) which measures the intrinsic pathway.
`` I 'm in the Mood लिये Love '' is a लोकप्रिय song.
The म्यूज़िक थी लिखा by jimmy McHugh, the गीत by Dorothy फ़ील्ड.
the सोंग was published in 1935.
it थी introduced by frances Langford in the movie प्रत्येक Night at Eight released कि year.
The song थी प्रदर्शित in the 1936 Our गिरोह ( Little Rascals ) छोटी, the Pinch Singer, sung by Carl `` Alfalfa '' Switzer, और in the 1936 film Palm स्रोतों.
It is प्रायः ज्ञात to be Switzer 's signature song.
James मूडी 's saxophone solo on a 1952 रिकॉर्डिंग of इस song प्रेरित the song `` Moody 's Mood लिये प्रेम ``.
Hip hop कलाकार प्रिंस Paul sampled the सोंग as the आधार for the track `` मनोदशा for प्रेम '' on उसके एल्बम A Prince among Thieves ( 1999 ), साथ डॉन Newkirk singing its original lyrics.
The song 's शीर्षक प्रेरित the अंग्रेज़ी title of Wong kar Wai 's movie in the मनोदशा लिये प्रेम.
cross-cultural psychology is the scientific पढ़ाई of human behavior and mental processes, सहित दोनो उनके variability और invariance, अंतर्गत diverse सांस्कृतिक conditions.
through expanding research methodologies to recognize सांस्कृतिक variance in behavior, language, and meaning it seeks to extend और develop मनोविज्ञान.
Since psychology as an academic discipline was विकसित largely in North America, some psychologists became concerned कि constructs accepted as सार्वभौमिक यहूद not as invariant as previously assumed, विशेषकर since अनेक attempts to replicate notable प्रयोग in other cultures had varying कामयाबी.
चूंकि there हैं questions as to whether theories dealing साथ central विषयवस्तु, such as affect, cognition, conceptions of the self, and मुद्दे ऐसे as psychopathology, anxiety, and अवसाद, may lack बाह्य validity when `` exported '' to other cultural contexts, cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान re-examines them using methodologies designed to फ़ैक्टर in cultural मतभेद so as to खाता for सांस्कृतिक variance.
Although some critics have pointed to methodological flaws in cross-cultural मनोवैज्ञानिक research और claim that serious shortcomings in the सैद्धांतिक और methodological bases used impede rather than help the वैज्ञानिक search for universal सिद्धान्त in psychology, cross-cultural psychologists are turning अधिक to the पढ़ाई of how differences ( variance ) occur, rather than searching for universals in the style of physics or रसायन.
in 1972 the International संघ of Cross-Cultural मनोविज्ञान ( iaccp ) was established.
इस branch of मनोविज्ञान has continued to expand as वहीँ has been an increasing popularity of incorporating culture and विविधता into अध्ययन.
Cross-cultural psychology is differentiated इससे Cultural psychology.
The latter is the शाखा of psychology that holds that human बर्ताव is significantly influenced by cultural मतभेद, अर्थ that मनोवैज्ञानिक phenomena can तभी be compared साथ each अन्य across cultures to a very limited extent.
in contrast, cross-cultural psychology शामिल a search लिये संभावित universals in behavior और mental प्रक्रियाओं.
Walter J. Lonner, writing for नजर on Psi ची, has stated कि `` cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान can be विचार of as a type research methodology, rather than an entirely separate फ़ील्ड भीतर मनोविज्ञान ( 2000 ). ''
`` यहूदा '' is a सोंग by अमरीकी recording कलाकार महिला Gaga, from her दूसरी स्टुडियो album born This रास्ता ( 2011 ).
it थी released by Interscope रिकॉर्ड on April 15, 2011, चार days ahead of इसके अनुसूचित रिलीज.
Written and उत्पादित by Lady गागा और RedOne, `` Judas '' is a नृत्य and इलेक्ट्रो house सोंग परिचय a woman in love साथ a man who गद्दारी उसके.
it embodies the incidents that have haunted गागा in the पास्ट, और its core meaning refers to the negative parts of her जीवन that she ca n't escape.
गागा has further explained कि the song थी भी about honoring one 's भीतरी अंधेरा in अनुक्रम to bring oneself into the light.
The कलाकृति for the single was designed by Gaga in Microsoft Word.
in spite of a polarizing impact on अनेक धार्मिक groups, the सोंग थी generally खूब प्राप्त by आलोचकों, जो likened the song to `` Bad Romance `` with some noting it चाहिए have महरूम the album 's lead single.
The सोंग has a similar sound to गागा 's previous RedOne-produced tracks, including `` Poker फेस ``, `` LoveGame ``, `` ख़राब रोमांस '', और `` alejandro ``.
it contains three पृथक hooks and a house -influenced ब्रेक bas.
Gaga explained that the lines spoken during the विश्लेषण talk about her as beyond मोचन, regarding the traditional दृश्य of what a woman should be.
`` यहूदा '' initially had a strong बिक्री opening, but थी less कामयाब commercially in तुलना to गागा 's पिछला singles.
the song reached the शीर्ष टेन of the charts in सबसे major music बाज़ार, and also पहुँचे the top of the चार्ट in South कोरियाई.
a music video लिये the song थी filmed in अप्रैल 2011, co-directed by गागा and Laurieann Gibson and co-starring Norman Reedus.
It रै a Biblical storyline where Reedus played Judas इस्कैरियट and Gaga played मरियम Magdalene.
the video portrays उन्हें as modern दिन प्रचारकों going to Jerusalem.
it included the Biblical story of Judas betraying Jesus, and ended with Gaga as Magdalene getting stoned to death.
Before इसके release, the Catholic League condemned गागा for the कथित उपयोग of धार्मिक imagery और उसके role in the video.
However, critics generally praised the video, नहीं ढूंढना any अप्रिय सामग्री.
The video थी nominated for दो पुरस्कार at the 2011 MTV Video म्यूज़िक Awards.
Gaga रै performed `` यहूदा '' on a number of टेलीविज़न shows, सहित the Graham नॉर्टन दिखाएँ, शनिवार Night Live, Good Morning americas `` Summer कॉन्सर्ट Series '', the French X Factor as खूब as on the Ellen DeGeneres Show.
H.264/MPEG-4 Part 10 or AVC ( उन्नत वीडियो कोडिंग ) is a मानक लिये video compression, and is currently one of the सबसे commonly used स्वरुप for the recording, संपीडन, और वितरण of high definition video.
The final drafting कार्य on the first version of the मानक थी समाप्त in May 2003.
h.264/mpeg-4 avc is a block-oriented motion-compensation -आधारd कोडेक standard विकसित by the itu-t वीडियो Coding Experts Group ( VCEG ) together with the ISO/IEC JTC1 चलती चित्र विशेषज्ञ Group ( एमपीईजी ).
The project partnership effort is ज्ञात as the Joint Video Team ( JVT ).
the itu-t H.264 मानक and the iso/iec MPEG-4 AVC standard ( formally, ISO/IEC 14496-10 – MPEG-4 Part 10, उन्नत वीडियो कोडिंग ) are jointly कायम so that वे have एकसमान technical content.
H.264 is perhaps best ज्ञात as being one of the codec मानकों for blu-ray Discs ; all Blu-ray डिस्क players जरूर be समर्थ to डिकोड h.264.
It is भी widely प्रयुक्त by streaming अंतरजाल sources, such as videos इससे vimeo, YouTube, और the itunes Store, web software ऐसे as the Adobe फ्लैश Player and microsoft Silverlight, और भी various hdtv प्रसारण over terrestrial ( atsc, ISDB-T, DVB-T or dvb-t2 ), केबल ( dvb-c ) and satellite ( DVB-S and DVB-S2 ).
Non-binding arbitration is a प्रकार of arbitration in जिससे the arbitrator makes a determination of the rights of the पार्टियों to the dispute, but इस determination is नहीं binding upon उन्हें, और no enforceable मध्यस्थता award is जारी.
the `` पुरस्कार '' is in effect an सलाहकार opinion of the arbitrator 's दृश्य of the respective merits of the parties मामले.
Non-binding मध्यस्थता is used in connection with कोशिशें to reach a negotiated settlement.
The भूमिका of an arbitrator in non-binding arbitration is, on the सतह, similar to कि of a मध्यस्थ in a मध्यस्थता.
However, the principal भेद is that whereas a mediator will try to help the पार्टियों find a मध्य मैदान to compromise at, the arbitrator remains totally removed from the उपनिवेश process and will तभी give a determination of liability और, if appropriate, an indication of the quantum of damages देय.
Subsequent to a non-binding मध्यस्थता, the parties remain free to pursue उनके claims either through the courts, or by way of a binding arbitration, although in अभ्यास a settlement is the most आम outcome.
The पुरस्कार and reasoning in a non-binding arbitration is almost invariably inadmissible in any subsequent कार्रवाई in the courts or in another मध्यस्थता tribunal.
Non-binding मध्यस्थता is utilised mostly in the संयुक्त राज्य and कनाडा.
it is largely अनजान in Europe, although in the United Kingdom वहीँ is a practice of पार्टियों who हैं seeking a settlement to jointly instruct a महारानी 's counsel for an opinion on the merits और संभावित quantum of a claim, और then to negotiate on the basis of the दृश्य expressed in कि opinion.
Augustine Volcano is a Lava Dome जटिल on Augustine Island in southwestern Cook Inlet in the Kenai प्रायद्वीप बरो of southcentral coastal Alaska, southwest of Anchorage.
The Alaska ज्वालामुखी वेधशाला फिलहाल rates माउंट अगस्टाइन as Level of Concern Color कोड ग्रीन for विमानन and the ज्वालामुखी चेतावनी Level is at सामान्य.
Augustine Island रै a जमीन area of, while West Island, just off Augustine 's पश्चिमी shores, रै.
the द्वीप is made up mainly of past eruption जमा.
वैज्ञानिकों have been able to discern that पास्ट dome पतन has resulted in विशाल avalanches.
A map of Belize.
the country of Belize रै roughly 386 km of तटरेखा, and रै अनेक coral reefs, cays, and आइलैंड्स in the Caribbean Sea.
सबसे of ये form the Belize Barrier Reef, the longest in the पश्चिमी hemisphere stemming लगभग.
The रीफ और इसके islands have महरूम a युनेस्को World विरासत Site चूंकि 1996.
the following is a list of oceanic आइलैंड्स of Belize, arranged according to region but सब of which are in the Caribbean Sea.
सबसे of the आइलैंड्स variate in स्पेलिंग between `` cay '' and `` caye '', और भी उपयोग the Spanish `` cayo ''.
River islands have not been सूचीबद्ध.
Drive Letter Access ( DLA ) is a discontinued वाणिज्यिक packet लिखने application लिये the microsoft Windows ऑपरेटिंग system कि allows ऑप्टिकल disc data storage devices to be used in a manner समान to फ्लॉपी डिस्क.
dla is a packet writing technology लिये CD and DVD media that uses the udf file प्रणाली.
dla is not संगत साथ खिड़कियाँ Vista and नए, although a patch exists to fix इस issue under Windows विस्टा.
Roxio Burn थी introduced on अप्रैल 30, 2009.
As a replacement for DLA, it remedies संगतता issues अंतरजाल Explorer 8.
Alpha Rex Emmanuel Humbard ( August 13, 1919 – सितंबर 21, 2007 ) was a well-known American टेलीविज़न evangelist जिनकी Cathedral of Tomorrow दिखाएँ was shown on over 600 stations at the peak of इसके popularity.
Limitless is a 2011 American thriller film directed by Neil Burger and starring ब्राडली कूपर, abbie Cornish, और Robert de Niro.
It is based on the 2001 novel the Dark Fields by Alan glynn साथ the पटकथा by लेस्ली डिक्सन.
अलास्का ( ) is a राज्य in the संयुक्त States, situated in the northwest extremity of the उत्तर American महाद्वीप, साथ the international boundary साथ Canada to the east, the आर्कटिक समंदर to the north, and the प्रशांत समंदर to the वेस्ट and south, with Russia further west across the Bering Strait.
अलास्का is the largest राज्य in the संयुक्त States by area, the 4th least populous और the least densely populated of the 50 United राज्य.
Approximately हाफ of अलास्का 's 731,449 residents live within the anchorage metropolitan क्षेत्रफल.
अलास्का 's economy is dominated by the आयल, प्राकृतिक gas, and फ़िशिंग industries ; it रै these resources in प्रचुरता.
अलास्का थी purchased इससे Russia on March 30, 1867, लिये $ 7.2 million ( $ adjusted लिये inflation ) at approximately two cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
The जमीन went through several administrative changes before बनने an organized ( or incorporated ) territory on May 11, 1912, and the 49th राज्य of the u.S. on January 3, 1959.
the नाम `` अलास्का '' ( аляска ) was already introduced in the रूसी औपनिवेशिक period, जब it was used तभी लिये the peninsula और is निकला from the Aleut alaxsxaq, अर्थ `` the mainland '' or, अधिक वस्तुतः, `` the object towards which the action of the sea is directed ''.
it is also known as Alyeska, the `` ग्रेट land '', an Aleut शब्द निकला from the वही रूट.
नेल्सन Mandela Metropolitan विश्वविद्यालयों ( nmmu ) is a South अफ़्रीकी tertiary शिक्षा संस्था साथ its main प्रशासन in the coastal नगर of Port Elizabeth.
A merging of तीन institutions संस्थापित NMMU in जनवरी 2005 but its history dates back to 1882 साथ the foundation of Port एलिज़ाबेथ Art School.
The विश्वविद्यालयों draws international विद्यार्थी इससे all over the world.
वहीँ हैं over 3000 international विद्यार्थी and शामिल students इससे the संयुक्त राज्य, France, China, जर्मनी, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, नीदरलैंड्स, Norway, स्वीडन, संयुक्त Kingdom and अनेक अन्य देशों.
NMMU is a comprehensive university offering professional और vocational training.
the University रै six campuses - five in Port एलिज़ाबेथ और one in George.
The main कैम्पस is the दक्षिण Campus.
विद्यार्थी at NMMU can पढ़ाई towards diplomas and degrees up to और सहित doctoral level योग्यता.
A number of courses include कार्यस्थल experience as भाग of the curriculum.
CoverGirl is an अमरीकी cosmetics brand founded in Maryland, by the noxzema Chemical Company ( later called noxell ) और acquired by procter & Gamble in 1989.
the noxell Company advertised इस कॉस्मेटिक्स लकीर by allowing `` cover girls '', fashion models जो appear on the सामने cover of women 's magazines, to wear its products.
CoverGirl makes up लिये lack of direct individual ग्राहक service by providing a चौड़ी variety of cosmetics उपलब्धियाँ at reasonable prices.
on the उत्पत्ति of Species, प्रकाशित on 24 नवम्बर 1859, is a कार्य of वैज्ञानिक साहित्य by चार्ल्स Darwin which is considered to be the foundation of evolutionary biology.
Its full title was On the Origin of Species by Means of प्राकृतिक Selection, or the Preservation of favoured दौड़ in the Struggle लिये Life.
For the sixth edition of 1872, the short शीर्षक थी बदला to the Origin of Species.
Darwin 's book introduced the scientific सिद्धान्त that populations evolve over the कोर्स of generations through a process of natural चयन.
It presented a body of प्रमाण that the विविधता of life arose by आम descent through a branching पैटर्न of एवोल्यूशन.
डार्विन included evidence that he had gathered on the Beagle expedition in the 1830s और उसके subsequent निष्कर्षों इससे research, correspondence, and experimentation.
विभिन्न evolutionary विचार had already been proposed to बताइये नई findings in biology.
There was growing support for ऐसे ideas among dissident anatomists और the general public, लकिन during the first half of the 19th century the अंग्रेज़ी scientific establishment was closely tied to the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड, while science थी part of natural धर्मशास्त्र.
Ideas about the transmutation of species यहूद controversial as they विरोधी with the beliefs कि species यहूद अपरिवर्तनशील भाग of a designed hierarchy and कि humans were अद्वितीय, unrelated to other animals.
The political और theological implications यहूद intensely debated, लकिन transmutation थी not स्वीकृत by the वैज्ञानिक mainstream.
The book was लिखा लिये non-specialist पाठक and आकर्षित फैली interest upon इसके प्रकाशन.
As डार्विन थी an प्रतिष्ठित scientist, his findings were taken seriously and the evidence he प्रस्तुत generated scientific, philosophical, and धार्मिक चर्चा.
the बहस over the book contributed to the अभियान by T.H. हक्स्ले and उसके fellow members of the X Club to secularise विज्ञान by promoting scientific naturalism.
Within two दशकों there थी फैली वैज्ञानिक अनुबंध that एवोल्यूशन, with a branching पैटर्न of common descent, had occurred, but वैज्ञानिकों were slow to give प्राकृतिक selection the significance that डार्विन विचार appropriate.
दौरान the `` eclipse of Darwinism `` इससे the 1880s to the 1930s, विभिन्न other mechanisms of एवोल्यूशन were given अधिक credit.
With the development of the आधुनिक evolutionary synthesis in the 1930s और 1940s, Darwin 's अवधारणा of evolutionary अनुकूलन through प्राकृतिक selection became central to modern विकासवादी theory, now the unifying concept of the life sciences.
Charles Dillon `` Casey '' स्टेंगल ( ; जुलाई 30, 1890 – सितंबर 29, 1975 ), nicknamed `` The बूढ़ा perfessor '', थी an अमरीकी Major लीग Baseball outfielder और मैनेजर.
he was निर्वाचित to the बेसबॉल Hall of Fame in.
स्टेंगल was born in Kansas City, Missouri, and originally nicknamed `` Dutch '', a आम nickname at कि समय लिये अमेरिकी of जर्मनी ancestry.
बाद his प्रमुख लीग career began, he acquired the उपनाम `` Casey '', जिससे originally came from the आद्याक्षर of उसके गृहनगर ( `` K. C. '' ), जिससे evolved into `` Casey '', influenced by the wide popularity of the कविता Casey at the चमगादड़.
in the 1950s, sportswriters dubbed him साथ yet another उपनाम, `` The Old प्राध्यापक '' ( or `` perfessor '' ), for उसके sharp wit and his ability to बात at length on anything baseball -सुनानाd.
Although his बेसबॉल करियर spanned a क्रमांक of टीमों and cities, he is primarily संबद्ध with clubs in नई York नगर.
Between playing and managing, he is the तभी man to have worn four of New York 's major लीग clubs ' uniforms.
He was the first of four men ( through the season ) to मैनेज दोनो the नई यॉर्क Yankees and नई York Mets ; Yogi Berra, Dallas Green, और जो Torre are the अन्य.
जैसे Torre, he भी managed the braves and the डॉजर्स.
He ended his baseball career as the beloved मैनेजर लिये the तब expansion New York मेट्स, which won over the hearts of नई York partly due to the unique character of their veteran नेता.
June ( ) is the sixth माह of the साल in the Julian and Gregorian calendars और एक of the चार महीने with a length of 30 days.
Ovid provides दो etymologies for June 's नाम in his कविता concerning the महीने हकदार the Fasti.
The first is कि the month is named after the Roman goddess juno, wife of बृहस्पति और समतुल्य to the यूनानी देवी hera ; the second is that the नाम comes इससे the लैटिन शब्द iuniores, अर्थ `` younger ones, '' as opposed to maiores ( `` elders '' ) for जिससे the preceding month May may be नामित ( fasti vi.1–88 ).
See : Months in विभिन्न calendars भी called the ऋतु of the जून is the month with the longest daylight hours of the year in the Northern गोलार्ध और the shortest daylight घंटों of the year in the Southern Hemisphere.
जून in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध is the seasonal समतुल्य to December in the दक्षिणी Hemisphere and vice versa.
in the Northern गोलार्ध, the शुरूआत of the meteorological summer is 1 June.
in the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध, the शुरूआत of the meteorological winter is 1 जून.
at the start of June, the सूर्य उदय in the नक्षत्र of वृष ; at the end of June, the sun rises in the constellation of Gemini.
However, due to the precession of the equinoxes, June begins with the sun in the astrological sign of Gemini, और ends with the सूर्य in the astrological चिह्न of कर्कट.
June is known for the विशाल number of विवाह that occur over the course of the month.
According to एक etymology, June is named बाद Juno ( hera ).
juno was the देवी of विवाह और a married couple 's household, so some consider it good luck to be शादीशुदा in this month.
according to another etymology provided by the रोमन poet ओविड, जून is named लिये the iuniores, लैटिन for `` यंग people '' ( fasti vi.88 ) और कि the month of may is named for the maiores, Latin for `` elders ''.
in आइसलैंड, folklore says that if तुम bathe naked in the morning dew on the morning of जून 24, तुम are supposed to keep वृद्धावस्था at खाड़ी for longer.
a constitution is a नियत of fundamental principles or established precedents according to जिससे a state or अन्य organization is governed.
These rules together मेक up, i.e. constitute, कया the एंटिटी is.
जब these principles हैं written bas into a single document or नियत of legal documents, those documents may be कहा to embody a written संविधान ; if वे are written down in a सिंगल comprehensive दस्तावेज़, it is said to embody a संहिताबद्ध संविधान.
Constitutions concern अलग levels of संगठन, from sovereign states to companies and unincorporated एसोसिएशन.
a treaty which establishes an अंतरराष्ट्रीय organization is भी इसके संविधान, in that it would define कैसा that organization is constituted.
Within राज्य, whether sovereign or federated, a संविधान defines the principles upon which the state is आधारित, the procedure in जिससे कानून हैं made and by whom.
कुछ constitutions, especially codified constitutions, also act as limiters of state power, by establishing lines which a state 's rulers can not cross, such as fundamental rights.
जार्ज Washington at Constitutional Convention of 1787, हस्ताक्षर of u.S. Constitution.
the Constitution of India is the longest लिखा संविधान of कोई sovereign देश in the संसार, containing 448 articles, 12 schedules और 100 amendments, with 117,369 words in its English भाषा संस्करण, जबकि the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान is the shortest लिखा constitution, at 7 आलेख और 27 amendments.
Ron diftler ( left ), NASA Robonaut मैनेजर assisting in a Robonaut familiarization training session in the Space पर्यावरण Simulation Laboratory at NASA 's Johnson Space बीच.
अभियान्त्रिकी प्रबन्धन is a specialized form of प्रबन्धन that is चिंतित साथ the application of engineering principles to कारोबार practice.
Engineering management is a career कि brings together the technological problem-solving savvy of engineering and the organizational, administrative, और नियोजन abilities of management in order to oversee जटिल enterprises इससे धारणा to completion.
उदाहरण areas of engineering are product development, निर्माण, construction, design engineering, industrial engineering, प्रौद्योगिकी, उत्पादन, or any other field that employs personnel जो perform an अभियान्त्रिकी function.
कामयाब engineering managers typically require training and अनुभव in कारोबार and अभियान्त्रिकी.
technically inept managers tend to be deprived of support by उनके तकनीकी team, and non-commercial managers tend to कमी commercial acumen to deliver in a market economy.
Largely, engineering प्रबंधक manage engineers who are चलित by non-entrepreneurial thinking, thus आवश्यकता the necessary लोगों skills to coach, mentor और motivate technical पेशेवर.
Engineering पेशेवर joining निर्माण companies sometimes become engineering managers by डिफॉल्ट after a period of time.
They हैं जरूरी to learn how to मैनेज once they are on the जॉब, हालांकि इस is प्रायः an ineffective रास्ता to develop managerial abilities.
in an insurance नीति, the deductible is the राशि of expenses that must be paid out of pocket पहले an insurer will अदा any खर्च.
In सामान्य उपयोग, the पद deductible may be प्रयुक्त to describe एक of several प्रकार of clauses ( see below ) that हैं used by insurance कंपनियाँ as a threshold लिये policy भुगतान.
Deductibles हैं typically प्रयुक्त to deter the large number of नगण्य claims that a consumer can be reasonably expected to भालू the cost of.
By restricting its coverage to events that हैं significant पर्याप्त to incur विशाल costs, the insurance firm expects to pay out slightly smaller amounts much less frequently, incurring much higher बचत.
As a result, बीमे premiums हैं typically सस्ता जब वे involve higher deductibles.
Deductibles are सामान्यतः provided as clauses in an insurance नीति that dictate कैसा much of an insurance-covered व्यय is borne by the policyholder.
They are सामान्यतः कोटेड as a फिक्स्ड मात्रा and is a भाग of most नीतियों covering losses to the policy holder.
the insurer तब becomes liable for claimable खर्च that exceed इस राशि ( subject to the maximum sum claimable indicated in the contract ).
Depending on the policy, the deductible may लागू per covered incident, or per साल.
लिये नीतियों जहाँ incidences हैं not easy to delimit ( for example health बीमे ), the deductible is typically applied per साल.
Several deductibles can be set by the insurer based on the कारण of the claim.
लिये example, a सिंगल housing insurance policy may contain अनेक deductible amounts for loss or damage arising from theft, fire, natural calamities, evacuation etc.
There are also deductible reimbursement programs कि reimburse a deductible in the इवेंट of an auto, home, boat/yacht or health insurance claim.
An invoice or विधेयक is a वाणिज्यिक document जारी by a seller to a खरीदार, indicating the products, quantities, and agreed prices for products or services the seller has provided the buyer.
An invoice indicates the sale लेनदेन तभी.
Payment terms हैं independent of the चालान and हैं negotiated by the खरीदार और the विक्रेता.
भुगतान terms हैं प्रायः शामिल on the चालान.
The buyer could have already paid for the उत्पाद or services listed on the invoice.
Buyer can also have a maximum number of days in जिससे to pay लिये these goods and is sometimes offered a छूट if paid पहले the due तिथि.
in the rental उद्योग, an invoice जरूर include a specific सन्दर्भ to the duration of the समय being billed, so in addition to मात्रा, दाम and छूट the invoicing amount is भी based on duration.
generally each लकीर of a rental invoice will refer to the actual घंटों, दिनों, weeks, months, etc., होने billed.
From the पाइंट of दृश्य of a seller, an invoice is a बिक्री invoice.
From the point of दृश्य of a buyer, an invoice is a purchase invoice.
the document indicates the खरीदार and seller, but the पद invoice indicates धन is owed or owing.
In अंग्रेज़ी, the context of the term invoice is usually used to clarify इसके अर्थ, such as `` we भेजा them an चालान '' ( they owe us money ) or `` We प्राप्त an invoice इससे उन्हें '' ( we owe उन्हें money ).
the right प्रमुख bronchus ( or right primary bronchus, or सही प्रिंसिपल bronchus ) is a bronchus of the respiratory प्रणाली.
It is wider, shorter, and more लंबवत in direction than the बाएँ.
It is about 2.5 cm long, and enters the सही lung nearly opposite the पांचवां thoracic vertebra.
The azygos रग arches over it from पीछे ; और the सही pulmonary artery lies at first below and तब in front of it.
About 2 cm from इसके commencement it gives बंद a branch to the upper lobe of the सही lung.
This is termed the eparterial शाखा of the bronchus, because it arises ऊपर the right pulmonary धमनी.
the bronchus अभी गुजरता नीचे the artery, और is ज्ञात as the hyparterial branch ; it divides into two शाखाओं for the middle and lower lobes.
if a विदेशी देह in the airway गुजरता through the trachea, it होगा most संभावित डालें the right प्रमुख bronchus बजाय of the left, due to the straighter संरेखण of the सही bronchus to the श्वासनली.
Squash is a racquet खेल played by दो ( singles ) or four players ( doubles ) in a four-walled court with a small, खोखला रबर बॉल.
the खिलाड़ी जरूर alternate in striking the ball with their racquet और hit the ball onto the playable सतहों of the चार दीवारें of the अदालत.
the game was formerly पुकारा स्क्वैश racquets, a सन्दर्भ to the `` squashable '' नरम ball used in the game ( compared साथ the fatter बॉल used in इसके parent game racquets or rackets ).
Squash is recognized by the IOC and समर्थक हैं lobbying लिये its incorporation in a भविष्य ओलम्पिक कार्यक्रम.
In 2003, Forbes rated स्क्वैश as the number one healthiest sport to play.
अवशेष oil is oil found in low एकाग्रता naturally or in exhausted oil fields.
Often मिश्रित with water, it can not be बरामद by conventional तकनीकों.
However, it can be बरामद using carbon dioxide-enhanced oil रिकवरी ( co2 eor ) जिससे involves injecting carbon डाइऑक्साइड into the well reducing viscosity and बढ़ाना flow of the आयल.
The technique is नहीं new लकिन रै नहीं been प्रयुक्त extensively on residual आयल zones, low-grade deposits of petroleum ऐसे as the 38 square miles in the Permian जलाशय of Texas leased by elliott Roosevelt Jr.
The technique is सीमित by availability of carbon dioxide.
It करता नहीं result in sequestration of the carbon डाइऑक्साइड but the gas is recycled as much as possible.
United States reserves of residual oil are estimated to be 100 billion barrels.
Artist 's rendering of the fire, by John R. chapin, originally printed in हार्पर 's साप्ताहिक ; the view faces northeast across the Randolph गली सेतु.
the Great शिकागो आग was a conflagration कि burned इससे Sunday, October 8, to early Tuesday, October 10, 1871, हत्या hundreds और destroying परिचय in Chicago, Illinois.
हालांकि the fire was एक of the largest u.S. आपदाओं of the 19th century, the पुनर्निर्माण कि began helped develop Chicago as एक of the सबसे populous और economically important अमरीकी शहरों.
हेनरी viii ( 28 जून 1491 – 28 जनवरी 1547 ) was किंग of इंग्लैण्ड from 21 अप्रैल 1509 until his death.
he was lord, और later king, of Ireland, as well as continuing the nominal claim by the अंग्रेज़ी monarchs to the Kingdom of France.
Henry was the दूसरी monarch of the ट्यूडर राजवंश, succeeding his पिता, हेनरी सात.
Besides उसके छह विवाह, Henry VIII is ज्ञात लिये उसके role in the separation of the Church of इंग्लैण्ड from the Roman Catholic Church.
Henry 's struggles साथ Rome led to the separation of the Church of England from papal authority, the विच्छेद of the monasteries, and उसके अपना establishment as the Supreme सिर of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड.
yet he remained a आस्तिक in कोर कैथोलिक theological शिक्षाओं, even after उसके excommunication इससे the Roman Catholic Church.
Henry oversaw the legal union of इंग्लैण्ड और Wales with the Laws in वेल्स अधिनियमों 1535 और 1542.
In 1513, the new king allied with the पावन रोमन Emperor, maximillian I, और invaded France in 1513 with a large, well-equipped फौज, but हासिल little at a considerable वित्तीय cost.
maximillian, लिये उसके भाग, used the English invasion to his अपना ends, and इस prejudiced England 's क्षमता to शिकस्त the French.
इस foray होता prove the start of an obsession for Henry, जो invaded again in 1544.
इस time, Henry 's forces captured the महत्वपूर्ण नगर of Boulogne, but again the Holy Roman सम्राट, Charles V, supported हेनरी तभी as long as he needed to and इंग्लैण्ड, strained by the विशाल cost of the युद्ध, ransomed the नगर वापस लिये सलाम.
His contemporaries माना हेनरी in उसके prime to be an आकर्षक, educated और accomplished king, और he has been वर्णित as `` one of the सबसे charismatic शासकों to sit on the English throne ''.
besides सत्ताधारी साथ निरपेक्ष power, he भी engaged खुद as an लेखक and composer.
His ख्वाहिश to provide इंग्लैण्ड with a male वारिस – जिससे stemmed partly from निजी vanity और partly because he believed a daughter would be unable to consolidate the Tudor dynasty and the fragile सलाम कि existed following the युद्धों of the Roses – led to the two things लिये जिससे हेनरी is most remembered : his six marriages और the English Reformation.
Henry became morbidly obese and his health suffered, contributing to his death in 1547.
He is अक्सर characterised in his later जीवन as a lustful, egotistical, हर्ष, और insecure किंग.
La Reina del Sur ( the महारानी of the South ) is a spanish-language telenovela उत्पादित by the संयुक्त States television network telemundo, in संयोजन with the Antena 3 network और RTI Producciones.
आधारित on a अनोखा of the same नाम by Spanish लेखक arturo Pérez-Reverte, the drama depicts the rise of Teresa Mendoza ( केट डेल Castillo ), a young woman इससे मैक्सिको जो becomes the most शक्तिशाली drug trafficker in southern Spain.
Patricio wills, the अध्यक्ष of Telemundo टेलीविज़न Studios, थी the executive निर्माता.
हालांकि La Reina डेल Sur was मनोनीत for Novela of the साल, पसंदीदा Lead अभिनेत्री, और Best Bad Luck Video, it won no पुरस्कार.
साथ a $ 10 million budget, La reina del Sur was the most महंगी telenovela ever produced by Telemundo.
the program 's premiere on February 28, 2011, was the संजाल 's highest rated premiere for a telenovela to date.
the program अक्सर dominated इसके समय स्लॉट, भी over English language प्रोग्रामिंग on other प्रमुख U.S. networks.
la reina डेल सूर समाप्त its 63 episode run on Telemundo और इसके 13 episode run on एंटेना 3 simultaneously on May 30, 2011.
the final एपीसोड थी the उच्चतम रेटेड broadcast in Telemundo 's 19-year history ( 4.2 million viewers ), और beat all of the English language U.S. television networks to earn the number एक slot in the 18-49 adult जनसांख्यिकी.
The कार्यक्रम 's कामयाबी spurred Telemundo to launch its first campaign to लाभ the series an Emmy पुरस्कार nomination.
A one-night खास featuring several cast सदस्यों aired on May 31, 2011, और marked the Telemundo debut of noted latina television व्यक्तित्व Cristina saralegui.
La Reina डेल Sur is ब्रॉडकास्ट in several other बाज़ार, including Serbia, Colombia, Chile, साइप्रस, Nicaragua, कोस्टा रिका, मैक्सिको, Albania, हंगेरियाई, Slovenia, Croatia, रोमानिया, ( among अन्य ).
an example of rack आरोहित servers
A वेब hosting service is a type of अंतरजाल hosting service that allows individuals और संगठन to मेक their जालस्थल accessible via the World चौड़ी वेब.
Web hosts are कंपनियाँ that provide space on a server owned or leased लिये use by clients, as खूब as providing अंतरजाल कनेक्टिविटी, typically in a आंकड़ा बीच.
वेब होस्ट can भी provide data center स्पेस and कनेक्टिविटी to the अंतरजाल for other servers located in their data center, called colocation, भी known as Housing in Latin अमेरिका or France.
the scope of वेब hosting services varies greatly.
The most basic is web page और small-scale file hosting, where files can be uploaded via संचिका ट्रांसफ़र प्रोटोकॉल ( एफटीपी ) or a Web interface.
the files are प्रायः delivered to the वेब `` as is '' or with minimal processing.
अनेक Internet सेवा providers ( isps ) offer इस सेवा free to सदस्य.
Individuals और organizations may also obtain Web page hosting from alternative सेवा providers.
Personal web site hosting is typically फ़्री, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
Business web site hosting often रै a higher व्यय depending upon the आकार and प्रकार of the website.
Single पेज hosting is generally sufficient लिये personal वेब pages.
A जटिल site काल्स लिये a more comprehensive package that provides डेटाबेस support और application विकास platforms ( e.g. PHP, जावा, Ruby on Rails, ColdFusion, or ASP.NET ).
ये facilities allow ग्राहक to write or स्थापना scripts for applications जैसे forums और content management.
भी, सुरक्षित sockets Layer ( SSL ) is typically used लिये e-commerce.
The host may भी provide an इंटरफ़ेस or control फलक for managing the Web server and installing स्क्रिप्ट, as well as other मौड्यूल और service अनुप्रयोग जैसे e-mail.
कुछ होस्ट specialize in certain software or services ( e.g. e-commerce ), जिससे हैं commonly used by larger companies कि outsource network अवसंरचना.
मैडेन NFL ( known as John मैडेन फ़ुटबॉल before 1993 ) is an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल video game श्रेणी developed by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक Arts Tiburon for EA Sports.
The game श्रेणी is named after Pro Football Hall of Famer जॉन Madden, a well-known former सुपर कटोरी –winning coach of the ओकलैंड Raiders and रंग commentator.
the series is the best selling EA Sports श्रेणी.
The games have consistently been a best seller, और रै even spawned TV shows जहाँ players compete.
Among the खेल 's realistic features include sophisticated playbooks और खिलाड़ी statistics, और आवाज़ commentary कि allows players to hear the game as if it were a real tv broadcast.
the Madden NFL श्रेणी has been nicknamed the एनएफएल 's 33rd Franchise.
The series थी originally conceived by Electronic Arts संस्थापक Trip Hawkins, जो तब approached मैडेन in 1984 लिये उसके समर्थन और expertise.
Due to मैडेन 's insistence that the खेल be as realistic as संभावित, the first version of John Madden फ़ुटबॉल थी not released until 1988.
The second version of the game was released in 1990, with सालाना संस्करण since then.
The श्रेणी ' name was changed to Madden NFL in 1993 after EA acquired the rights to use एनएफएल टीमों और players.
despite Madden 's retirement as a प्रसारणकर्ता in 2009, he continues to lend his name and provide expertise for the game.
Cindy Lee मिलर Sheehan ( born July 10, 1957 ) is an अमरीकी antiwar activist whose son, U.S. Army Specialist Casey Sheehan, was मारे by enemy कार्रवाई during the इराकी युद्ध.
वो attracted नेशनल और international मीडिया ध्यान in अगस्त 2005 for उसके extended antiwar protest at a makeshift camp outside President George W. बुश 's टेक्सास ranch —a स्टैंड कि drew दोनो passionate support and एंग्री आलोचना.
sheehan ran unsuccessfully for Congress in 2008.
She is a गायन critic of President Barack ओबामा 's foreign नीति.
उसके memoir, सलाम माँ : A माँ 's Journey Through heartache to Activism, was published in 2006.
sheehan was the 2012 vice-presidential nominee of the सलाम and स्वतंत्रता पार्टी.
Wyclef Jeanelle जां ( ; ; born October 17, 1969 ) wyclef Dumped From Haiti 's Presidential बैलट – TIME, अगस्त 21, 2010.
`` Before he घोषित on August 5 कि he थी running for President of Haiti, wyclef Jean थी स्टिल listing उसके आयु as only 37 सालो बूढ़ा.
लकिन बाद declaring himself a presidential प्रत्याशी, the haitian-american-irish hip-hop star भी decided to come साफ और confirm कि he was really 40. '' is a three-time ग्रैमी पुरस्कार -winning Haitian-American rapper, singer-songwriter, संगीतकार, रिकार्ड producer, and राजनेता.
At age नौ, Jean moved to the United States साथ उसके परिवार and has spent much of his life in the देश.
He पहला received कीर्ति as a सदस्य of the acclaimed New Jersey हिप hop group the Fugees.
On August 5, 2010, जां दायर लिये candidacy in the 2010 Haitian अध्यक्षीय election, although the चुनावी आयोग subsequently शासित him अयोग्य to stand as he था not met the आवश्यकता to have been resident in Haiti लिये five सालो.
wyclef जां to appeal against Haiti election ruling – BBC News, Aug 22, 2010.
हैती 's चुनावी commission said कि mr जां was ineligible to स्टैंड as the haitian constitution requires candidates to have जिया in the country for पाँच years prior to an election.
The 40-year-old singer lives in the US.
Jean 's प्रयत्न at earthquake relief, highly publicized in 2010 throughout Haiti and the संयुक्त States, were channeled through उसके charitable organization, yéle Haiti.
The दान, which performed a किस्में of charitable works in Haiti between 2005 and 2010, effectively closed in 2012.
In विधि, a set-off is a statutory रक्षा to the पूरे or to a portion of a अभियोक्ता 's claim.
It had no अस्तित्व under the English common विधि, being निर्मित by 2 जियो. II c. 22 for the राहत of insolvent debtors, although set-off was recognized in इक्विटी.
Such a रक्षा could be pleaded only in respect of mutual debts of a definite अक्षर, and did not लागू to मामले in जिससे damages were claimed, nor to निष्पक्ष दावा or मांगे.
By the rules of the Supreme अदालत ( O. XIX. r. 3 ) a प्रतिवादी in an कार्रवाई may set off or set up कोई सही or अर्जी by रास्ता of counterclaim विरूद्ध the दावा of a plaintiff, and such set-off or counterclaim has the वही effect as a बयान of अर्जी in a cross-action.
the विधिक रक्षा of set-off ( above ) was originally introduced to prevent the unfair हालात whereby a व्यक्ति ( `` पार्टी a '' ) जो owed money to another ( `` पार्टी B '' ) could be sent to debtors थाना, despite the fact that Party b also owed धन to Party a.
the विधि thus allows दोनो parties to टालना भुगतान until उनके respective claims have महरूम heard in अदालत.
Upon judgment, both claims are बुझे and replaced by a सिंगल net sum owing ( e.g. if पार्टी A owes Party b 100 और पार्टी b owes Party A 105, the दो रकम are set बंद and replaced with a single दायित्व of 5 इससे पार्टी B to Party a ).
Set-off can also be incorporated by contractual अनुबंध so that, where a party defaults, the mutual amounts owing हैं automatically set बंद and extinguished.
in निश्चित jurisdictions ( including the UK ), set-off takes place automatically upon the insolvency of a company.
This means that, for each पार्टी which is दोनो a creditor and debtor of the insolvent कम्पनी, mutual debts हैं set-off against प्रत्येक अन्य, and then either the bankrupt 's creditor can claim the balance in the bankruptcy or the trustee in bankruptcy can ask लिये the balance बाकी to be सशुल्क, depending on जिससे side owed the most.
This रै महरूम criticized as an undeclared security interest that violates the principle of pari passu.
the वैकल्पिक, जहाँ a creditor रै to अदा सब इसके debts, लकिन receive only a सीमित portion of the leftover moneys that अन्य unsecured लेनदारों get, poses the खतरे of 'knock-on ' insolvencies.
the सही to set बंद is विशेषकर important when reporting a bank 's विकिरणों to regulatory authorities.
The हालात जहाँ a bank has to रपट that it has lent a large योग to a borrower ( और is therefore exposed, because there is a risk कि the borrower might default thereby leading to the घाटा of the bank 's or its depositors ' money ) is यूँ replaced ( जहाँ the bank has taken सुरक्षा over साझा or securities of the borrower ) with an exposure of the धन lent ऋण the value of the security taken.
Jennifer Joanna एनिस्टन ( born February 11, 1969 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री, film निदेशक, and producer.
Aniston gained worldwide recognition in the 1990s लिये portraying रेचल Green on the television sitcom Friends, a role which earned her an Emmy पुरस्कार, a सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार, and a Screen अभिनेताओं Guild Award.
एनिस्टन has also enjoyed a कामयाब हॉलीवुड फिल्मी career.
She gained critical acclaim लिये her प्रदर्शन in the स्वतंत्र films She 's the एक ( 1996 ), Office Space ( 1999 ), The Good लड़की ( 2002 ) and मित्रों with Money ( 2006 ).
She रै था her greatest commercial successes साथ the films Bruce Almighty ( 2003 ), The Break-Up ( 2006 ), Marley & me ( 2008 ), Just go with It ( 2011 ) and Horrible Bosses ( 2011 ).
एनिस्टन received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame on February 22, 2012.
A श्वेत Bengal tiger at the ह्यूस्टन Aquarium
( video )
A श्वेत बाघ at Tobu चिड़ियाघर, in saitama, जापानी.
The white बाघ is a recessive mutant of the बंगाल tiger, जिससे was reported in the wild इससे time to समय in Assam, Bengal, Bihar और especially from the पूर्व राज्य of रीवा.
Conventional पीसीआई ( पीसीआई is an initialism formed from Peripheral Component Interconnect, part of the PCI लोकल बस मानक and often shortened to बस PCI ) is a local कंप्यूटर बस for attaching hardware devices in a कंप्यूटर.
The पीसीआई bus supports the functions found on a प्रोसेसर bus, but in a standardized format कि is स्वतंत्र of any particular प्रोसेसर.
Devices connected to the bus appear to the processor to be कनेक्ट सीधे to the प्रोसेसर bus, and are assigned पता in the processor 's पता space.
Attached डिवाइस can take either the form of an integrated circuit fitted onto the मदरबोर्ड itself, पुकारा a planar device in the PCI specification, or an expansion card कि fits into a slot.
The PCI Local Bus थी पहला implemented in ibm PC compatibles, where it displaced the combination of ISA plus one vesa Local Bus as the बस विन्यास.
It रै subsequently been अपनाया लिये अन्य computer types.
पीसीआई and pci-x हैं होने replaced by पीसीआई Express, but, most motherboards are स्टिल made साथ one or more PCI स्लॉट, which are sufficient for अनेक उपयोग.
The पीसीआई specification covers the physical size of the bus ( including the size और अंतरण of the circuit board किनारे विद्युत contacts ), विद्युत characteristics, bus timing, and प्रोटोकॉल.
The specification can be खरीदा from the पीसीआई खास ब्याज Group ( PCI-SIG ).
Typical पीसीआई cards प्रयुक्त in PCs include : संजाल cards, ध्वनि cards, modems, extra पोर्ट such as USB or serial, tv tuner cards and डिस्क controllers.
पीसीआई video cards replaced ISA and vesa ताश, until growing बैंडविड्थ requirements outgrew the capabilities of PCI ; the पसन्दीदा interface लिये वीडियो cards became AGP, और then पीसीआई Express.
पीसीआई video cards remain उपलब्धियाँ for उपयोग with बूढ़ा pcs बगैर AGP or PCI Express slots.
अनेक devices previously provided on PCI expansion cards are now commonly एकीकृत onto motherboards or उपलब्धियाँ in सार्वभौमिक serial बस और PCI Express संस्करण.
कैफीन is a कड़वा, श्वेत crystalline xanthine alkaloid that acts as a stimulant ड्रग.
कैफीन is found in varying quantities in the बीज, leaves, और fruit of some plants, where it acts as a प्राकृतिक pesticide that paralyzes and kills certain insects feeding on the plants, as well as बढ़ाना the reward memory of pollinators.
It is most commonly consumed by इंसानो in infusions निकाली from the बीज of the coffee संयंत्र and the leaves of the tea बुश, as well as from विभिन्न foods और drinks containing products derived इससे the kola nut.
Other sources शामिल yerba maté, guarana जामुन, guayusa, और the yaupon होली.
In humans, कैफीन अधिनियमों as a central nervous प्रणाली stimulant, temporarily warding बंद drowsiness and restoring alertness.
It is the संसार 's सबसे widely consumed psychoactive ड्रग, but नापसंद many अन्य psychoactive substances, it is legal और unregulated in nearly all parts of the संसार.
पेय containing caffeine, such as कॉफी, tea, नरम drinks, और energy drinks, enjoy great लोकप्रियता.
in North America, 90 % of adults consume कैफीन daily.
भाग of the reason कैफीन is वर्गीकृत by the Food and ड्रग Administration as ग्रा ( generally पहचाना as safe ) is that toxic doses ( over 10 grams ) हैं much उच्चतर than typically used doses ( कम than 500 milligrams ).
Ordinary खपत can have कम health risks, भी जब carried on for years – वहीँ may be a modest protective effect विरूद्ध some रोगों, सहित Parkinsons बीमारी, और certain types of cancer.
Caffeine can have दोनो positive और ऋणात्मक effects on चिंता disorders.
कुछ people experience नींद disruption if वे consume कैफीन, विशेषकर दौरान the संध्या hours, but others दिखाएँ little disturbance और the effect of caffeine on नींद is highly परिवर्तनीय.
प्रमाण of a risk to pregnancy is equivocal, लकिन some अधिकारियों have concluded that prudent advice is लिये गर्भवती women to limit consumption to the समतुल्य of two cups of coffee प्रति day or कम.
The अमरीकी Congress of obstetricians और स्त्रीरोग ( acog ) concluded in 2010 that कैफीन consumption is safe up to 200 mg per day in pregnant women.
Caffeine रै pressor and mild diuretic प्रभाव जब administered to लोगों जो are not प्रयुक्त to it, but regular उपयोक्ता develop a tolerance to this प्रभाव, और studies have generally विफल to support the common notion that ordinary खपत contributes significantly to dehydration.
With भारी उपयोग, सहिष्णुता develops rapidly to autonomic प्रभाव such as elevated heart rate और मांसपेशी twitching, लकिन not to the cognitive or arousal effects of कैफीन.
the degree to which caffeine can उपज clinically significant शारीरिक and दिमागी dependence remains a subject of विवाद in the medical literature.
A kicktail cruiser
a longboard is a longer variant of a स्केटबोर्ड.
it is commonly प्रयुक्त लिये cruising, downhill रेसिंग, slalom रेसिंग, sliding, and/or transport.
Sources बाहर of विकिपीडिया give differing अनुमानs:
the CIA 's World factbook gives the world population as 7,021,836,029 ( July 2012 est. ) and the distribution of religions as Christian 100 % ( of which Roman Catholic 18.85 %, Protestant 8.15 %, परंपरागत 4.96 %, Anglican 1.26 % ), मुस्लिम 22.74 %, Hindu 13.8 %, बौद्ध 6.77 %, सिखों 0.35 %, Jewish 0.22 %, Baha'i 0.11 %, other religions 10.95 %, non-religious 9.66 %, atheists 2.01 %.
( 2010 est. ).
The coast Ranges of कैलिफ़ोर्निया span इससे Humboldt County, कैलिफ़ोर्निया दक्षिण to सांता बारबरा County.
The other तीन coastal कैलिफ़ोर्निया mountain सीमाएँ are the Transverse सीमाएँ, Peninsular Ranges और the Klamath kyu.
physiographically, वे हैं a section of the larger Pacific Border province, जिससे in फेरे are part of the larger प्रशांत पहाड़ System physiographic प्रभाग.
UNESCO रै शामिल the `` California Coast Ranges Biosphere Reserve `` in इसके man and the Biosphere कार्यक्रम of World Network of Biosphere Reserves चूंकि 1983.
वाहनों in उपयोग per country from 2001 to 2007.
It shows the significant growth in BRIC.
संसार map of passenger cars per 1000 people
an ऑटोमोबाइल, autocar, motor car or car is a wheeled मोटर गाडी used लिये transporting यात्री, which also carries इसके अपना engine or motor.
Most परिभाषाएं of the term बताएँ कि automobiles are designed to run primarily on roads, to have seating लिये एक to eight लोगों, to typically have four wheels, और to be constructed प्रधानतया लिये the transport of people rather than goods.
the पद motorcar has also been प्रयुक्त in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of electrified रेल systems to denote a car which functions as a छोटी locomotive लकिन भी provides space for यात्री और baggage.
These locomotive गाड़ियाँ were प्रायः used on suburban रूट by दोनो interurban और intercity रेलरोड प्रणालियों.
it थी अनुमानित in 2010 कि the number of ऑटोमोबाइल had risen to over 1 अरब vehicles, up इससे the 500 लाख of 1986.
The संख्याएँ हैं increasing rapidly, especially in चीन and इण्डिया.
जॉन Fitzgerald `` जोकर '' Kennedy ( May 29, 1917 – नवम्बर 22, 1963 ), often referred to by उसके initials JFK, was the 35th President of the United राज्य, serving इससे 1961 until उसके मौत in 1963.
After सैन्य सेवा as commander of the मोटर torpedo नौकाएँ PT-109 and PT-59 दौरान World War II in the दक्षिण Pacific, कैनेडी represented मैसाचुसेट्स ' 11th congressional ज़िला in the U.S. हाउस of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a डेमोक्रेट.
Thereafter, he served in the U.S. सीनेट from 1953 until 1960.
Kennedy defeated Vice President और रिपब्लिकन प्रत्याशी Richard निक्सन in the 1960 U.S. अध्यक्षीय चुनाव.
At 43 सालो of age, he is the youngest to have महरूम elected to the office, the second-youngest President ( बाद थियोडोर Roosevelt ), and the first व्यक्ति born in the 20th सदी to serve as अध्यक्ष.
a कैथोलिक, कैनेडी is the only non- प्रोटोस्टेंट president, and is the तभी अध्यक्ष to have जीती a Pulitzer पुरस्कार.
Events during his presidency शामिल the Bay of Pigs Invasion, the क्यूबन Missile संकट, the building of the Berlin वॉल, the Space रेस, the African-American Civil अधिकारों गति, और early stages of the वियतनाम War.
Therein, कैनेडी increased the क्रमांक of सैन्य advisers, special operation forces, and helicopters in an effort to curb the spread of communism in South East एशिया.
The Kennedy प्रशासन adopted the policy of the Strategic हैमलेट Program जिससे was implemented by the South Vietnamese सरकारी.
It शामिल certain मजबूर relocation, गाँव internment, और पृथक्करण of rural दक्षिण वियतनामी from the northern and दक्षिणी कम्युनिस्ट insurgents.
Kennedy was assassinated on November 22, 1963 in Dallas, टेक्सास.
ली Harvey ओसवाल्ड थी चार्ज with the अपराधों, but he थी शॉट और killed by जोकर Ruby two days later, before a विचारण could take place.
The एफबीआई and the Warren आयोग officially concluded कि Oswald थी the लोन हत्यारे.
However, the United राज्य हाउस Select कमेटी on Assassinations ( HSCA ) concluded that those investigations were flawed and that कैनेडी was संभवतः assassinated as the result of a conspiracy.
however, ABC न्यूज in their छानबीन, the Kennedy Assassination : Beyond Conspiracy, confirmed the findings of the वारेन Commission ; having concluded Oswald acted alone.
Kennedy 's controversial विभाग of रक्षा TFX fighter bomber कार्यक्रम led to a congressional investigation कि lasted from 1963 to 1970.
Since the 1960s information concerning कैनेडी 's निजी जीवन has आइये to लाइट.
Details of कैनेडी 's स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं in जिससे he struggled have become better known, especially since the 1990s.
Although initially रखा रहस्य इससे the सामान्य पब्लिक, reports of कैनेडी 's philandering have garnered much दबायें.
Kennedy ranks highly in public राय दरजा of u.S. presidents.
A siemens MXL fire alarm control panel ( top ) and graphic annunciator ( नीचे ) लिये Potomac Hall, at जेम्स मैडिसन University.
A सतर्क VM-1 fire सचेतक कंट्रोल unit ( FACU ) / autonomous कंट्रोल ईकाई ( ACU ) with एकीकृत voice evacuation and आग fighter telephone system.
Manufactured by Edwards, A utc F & s Company
a Fire सचेतक कंट्रोल फलक ( FACP ), or Fire सचेतक कंट्रोल ईकाई ( FACU ), is the controlling component of a आग Alarm System.
the फलक receives सूचना इससे पर्यावरणीय सेंसर designed to detect changes associated साथ fire, monitors their operational अखंडता and provides for automatic कंट्रोल of equipment, and हस्तांतरण of information जरुरी to prepare the facility लिये आग आधारित on a predetermined sequence.
the फलक may भी सप्लाई विद्युत energy to operate any associated sensor, कंट्रोल, transmitter, or रिले.
There are four मौलिक types of panels : coded panels, conventional panels, addressable panels, और multiplex प्रणालियों.
This is a list of the पहला music videos ब्रॉडकास्ट on MTV 's first day, अगस्त 1, 1981.
MTV 's first day on the एयर थी rebroadcast on VH1 क्लासिक in 2006 and अपलोड onto YouTube in 2010 ( although तभी the पहला four hours were प्रामाणिक ; the rest were edited vh1 rebroadcasts ).
Bandaranaike International Airport ( BIA ) ( also known as katunayake अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport और कोलोन International Airport ) is एक of the दो अंतरराष्ट्रीय airports सेवारत the city of Colombo, the अन्य is Ratmalana अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र.
Mattala राजपक्षे International विमानक्षेत्र located in southern city of Hambantota is the other international airport in Sri Lanka.
भण्डारनायके International विमानक्षेत्र is स्तिथ in katunayake, 22 मील ( 35 km ) north of कोलोन.
it is administered by Airport and विमानन Services ( श्री लंका ) ltd.
It is the hub of श्रीलंकन Airlines, the national carrier of Sri Lanka, and Mihin लंका, the budget airline of Sri Lanka.
ब्लैक Swan is a 2010 अमरीकी मनोवैज्ञानिक थ्रिलर and horror film directed by Darren Aronofsky and starring Natalie Portman, Vincent Cassel, और mila Kunis.
The प्लाट revolves around a production of Tchaikovsky 's swan Lake बैले by a prestigious New यॉर्क नगर company.
The production requires a नर्तकी to play the innocent और नाजुक श्वेत Swan, लिये जिससे the वचनबद्ध dancer नीना ( Portman ) is a पूर्ण fit, as well as the अंधेरा और कामुक ब्लैक Swan, which are qualities embodied by the नई आगमन लिली ( Kunis ).
नीना is overwhelmed by a feeling of immense दबाव when she पाता herself competing for the part, causing उसके to खोना her tenuous पकड़ on वास्तविकता और descend into a living nightmare.
aronofsky conceived the आधार by connecting उसके viewings of a उत्पादन of Swan Lake with an unrealized पटकथा परिचय understudies और the notion of होने haunted by a दोगुना, similar to the folklore surrounding doppelgängers.
Aronofsky cites Fyodor दोस्तोयेव्स्की 's `` the Double `` as another inspiration for the film.
The director also considered Black Swan a companion टुकड़ा to उसके 2008 film the पहलवान, with both films involving demanding प्रदर्शन for different kinds of art.
he और Portman पहला discussed the प्रोजेक्ट in 2000, और after a ब्रैड attachment to Universal Studios, ब्लैक swan was उत्पादित in New यॉर्क City in 2009 by Fox Searchlight Pictures.
Portman और kunis trained in ballet लिये several महीने prior to फिल्मांकन, and notable figures from the ballet संसार helped साथ film production to shape the ballet presentation.
the film premiered as the opening film for the 67th Venice अंतरराष्ट्रीय Film Festival on सितंबर 1, 2010.
It था a सीमित release in the United States starting December 3, 2010 and opened nationwide on December 17.
Black Swan received critical praise upon its release, particularly for पोर्टमैन 's प्रदर्शन and aronofsky 's दिशा, और was a significant box office success, grossing $ 329 million worldwide.
the फिल्मी प्राप्त पाँच अकादमी पुरस्कार nominations and Portman won the Best Actress award लिये the फिल्मी, as well as many other Best Actress awards in अनेक guilds and त्यौहार, जबकि Aronofsky was nominated लिये बेहतरीन निदेशक.
In जोड, the film itself प्राप्त a nomination for बेहतरीन Picture.
The world’s first ice-calorimeter, प्रयुक्त in the winter of 1782-83, by Antoine Lavoisier और pierre-simon लाप्लास, to determine the heat involved in विभिन्न रासायनिक परिवर्तन ; calculations which were आधारित on Joseph Black ’s prior discovery of latent ऊष्मा.
These experiments चिह्नित the foundation of thermochemistry.
A calorimeter ( from Latin calor, meaning ऊष्मा ) is an ऑब्जेक्ट used for कैलोरीमिति, or the process of measuring the heat of रासायनिक reactions or physical changes as खूब as ऊष्मा capacity.
Differential scanning calorimeters, isothermal microcalorimeters, titration calorimeters and accelerated rate calorimeters are among the most common प्रकार.
a simple calorimeter just consists of a thermometer attached to a metal संग्राहक पूरा of water suspended ऊपर a दहन कक्ष.
To ढूँढें the enthalpy बदलें per mole of a substance A in a प्रतिक्रिया between two substances a और B, the substances are added to a ऊष्मामापी and the initial और फाइनल temperatures ( before the reaction प्रारंभ and बाद it has समाप्त ) are noted.
Multiplying the तापमान बदलें by the द्रव्यमान and विशिष्ट ऊष्मा capacities of the substances gives a मान for the उर्जा given बंद or अवशोषित during the reaction.
Dividing the उर्जा change by how many moles of A were उपस्थित देता its enthalpy change of प्रतिक्रिया.
इस method is used primarily in academic teaching as it describes the सिद्धान्त of calorimetry.
It does not account लिये the heat loss through the संग्राहक or the heat capacity of the thermometer and संग्राहक itself.
In जोड, the object लगाई inside the ऊष्मामापी shows कि the वस्तुएँ transferred their heat to the calorimeter and into the liquid, and the ऊष्मा absorbed by the calorimeter और the liquid is बराबर to the heat given off by the metals.
A pair of ग्रीन flip-flops
Flip-flops ( also called zōri, thongs, jandals, or a variety of अन्य names throughout the world ) हैं a प्रकार of open-toed चन्दन typically worn in कैज़ुअल situations, such as outside or at the बीच.
They consist of a flat sole आयोजित loosely on the पैर by a Y-shaped strap कि passes between the first and दूसरी toes and around either पक्ष of the foot.
They may also be held to the पैर with a single डोरी over the front of the पैर बल्कि than a थोंग.
The name `` flip-flop '' originated क्युकी of the sound that is बना by slapping between the sole of the पैर और the मंजिल when walking.
इस style of जूते has been worn by the people of अनेक संस्कृतियों throughout the संसार, originating as जल्दी as the ancient Egyptians in 4,000 b.c.
The आधुनिक flip-flop descends इससे the Japanese zōri, which became popular after World War ii when सैनिको returning to the United States brought उन्हें back.
वे became popular in casual settings दौरान the 1960s, 1990s, और 2000s, और कुछ varieties have even found their रास्ता into अधिक formal attire, despite criticism.
The उपयोग of flip-flops can result in many pains and चोटों, including टखने sprains and टूटा हड्डियों.
Some individuals who walk लिये long अवधि रपट पीड़ा in the फीट, ankles, and lower टाँगे.
The कमी of support provided by flip-flops often परिणाम in over-pronation injuries, caused by the पैर slipping inwards further than सामान्य.
This can lead to चपटा feet और tendonitis.
Other injuries that may परिणाम हैं due to the जूते 's open-toed nature, ऐसे as stubbed toes, cuts, and bruises.
Doctors recommend purchasing pricier sandals with thick-cushioned soles, as खूब as those that have a strap कि is not canvas और that आता वापस almost to the ankle.
The owners of Hanjin Osaka, seen यहाँ transiting the Panama Canal in 2008, घोषित general average following an explosion in the ship 's इंजन रूम on.
The law of general औसत is a विधिक principle of maritime विधि according to which all पार्टियों in a समुद्र venture proportionally share any नुकसान resulting इससे a voluntary sacrifice of भाग of the जलयान or cargo to save the पूरे in an emergency.
In the exigencies of hazards faced at sea, क्रू members often have अनमोल little समय in जिससे to determine precisely whose कार्गो they हैं jettisoning.
Thus, to avoid quarrelling that could waste मूल्यवान time, there arose the equitable अभ्यास whereby all the merchants whose cargo उतरा safely would be called on to contribute a portion, based upon a share or percentage, to the व्यापारी or व्यापारियों जिनकी goods had been tossed overboard to avert निकट peril.
While general औसत traces इसके origins in ancient मेरीटाइम law, स्टिल it remains भाग of the admiralty विधि of most countries.
the पहला संहिताकरण of general average was the यॉर्क antwerp नियम of 1890.
American कंपनियाँ स्वीकृत it in 1949.
General average requires तीन elements which are clearly stated by mr. Justice Grier in बर्नार्ड v. Adams:
`` 1st.
A common खतरे : a danger in which पोत, cargo and crew all participate ; a danger imminent और जाहिर 'inevitable, ' except by voluntarily incurring the loss of a portion of the whole to सहेजें the remainder. ''
`` 2nd. There must be a voluntary jettison, jactus, or ढलाई दूर, of some portion of the joint concern for the purpose of avoiding इस imminent peril, periculi imminentis evitandi causa, or, in other words, a transfer of the peril from the whole to a particular portion of the whole. ''
`` 3rd.
This attempt to avoid the imminent common peril must be successful ''.
उदाहरण पॉलिश call लिये टीकाकरण विरूद्ध डिप्थीरिया and टेटनस.
A vaccination अनुसूची is a श्रेणी of vaccinations, सहित the समय of all doses, जिससे may be either recommended or compulsory, depending on the देश of residence.
A vaccine is an antigenic preparation used to produce active प्रतिरक्षण to a बीमारी, in order to prevent or reduce the प्रभाव of infection by any natural or `` wild '' pathogen.
Many vaccines require अनेक doses लिये अधिकतम effectiveness, either to उपज sufficient initial प्रतिरक्षा जवाब or to boost response that fades over समय.
For example, tetanus vaccine boosters are often अनुशंसित every 10 सालो.
Vaccine schedules are developed by governmental एजेंसियों or physicians groups to achieve maximum प्रभावकारिता using required और recommended टीके for a locality while minimizing the क्रमांक of health care प्रणाली interactions.
Over the past दो दशकों, the recommended टीकाकरण schedule has grown rapidly and become more complicated as अनेक new vaccines have been developed.
कुछ टीके are अनुशंसित only in certain areas ( countries, subnational areas, or at-risk populations ) where a बीमारी is आम.
लिये उदाहरण, yellow ज्वर vaccination is on the routine टीका schedule of फ्रेंच Guiana, is recommended in certain regions of Brazil लकिन in the संयुक्त States is तभी given to travelers heading to countries with a इतिहास of the बीमारी.
In विकासशील countries, टीका सुझाव भी लो into account the स्तर of स्वास्थ्य care अभिगम, the cost of vaccines और मुद्दे with vaccine availability and भंडार.
Sample vaccinations schedules discussed by the संसार स्वास्थ्य संगठन show a विकसित देश using a अनुसूची which extends over the पहला five years of a चाइल्ड 's जीवन and uses vaccines जिससे cost over $ 700 including administration costs जबकि a developing country उपयोग a schedule providing टीके in the पहला 9 महीने of life and costing only $ 25.
This difference is due to the lower cost of स्वास्थ्य care, the lower cost of अनेक टीके provided to developing nations, और that more expensive vaccines, often for कम common रोगों, are नहीं utilized.
In 1900, the smallpox vaccine थी the only एक administered to children.
By the early 1950s, children routinely प्राप्त चार vaccines, for protection विरूद्ध ( डिप्थीरिया, pertussis, टेटनस, polio, and smallpox ), और as अनेक as पाँच गोलियाँ by two years of आयु.
चूंकि the mid-1980s, many vaccines have been added to the अनुसूची.
, the us centers for बीमारी Control and रोकथाम ( CDC ) now recommends vaccination against at least fourteen रोगों.
By two years of age, u.S. children receive as अनेक as 24 टीका injections, and might receive up to five shots दौरान one visit to the doctor.
The उपयोग of combination vaccine products अर्थात् कि,, the संयुक्त Kingdom 's immunization कार्यक्रम consists of 10 injections by the age of दो, rather than 25 if टीकाकरण for प्रत्येक disease was given as a separate injection.
Two revellers dance in the streets.
The रूप of dancing is पुकारा `` wining '' ( घुमावदार ) सुनाया wine-ing
a म्यूज़िक Truck entertains the crowd on the गलियों.
Trucks हैं an अभिन्न भाग of the गली परेड, featuring live performances or deejays
The Trinidad और Tobago Carnival is an annual event held on the Monday and Tuesday पहले Ash Wednesday, और is well known लिये participant 's colorful वेशभूषा and समृद्ध celebrations.
Carnival in त्रिनिदाद and टोबैगो is the सबसे significant event on the आइलैंड्स ' cultural and tourism calendar, साथ numerous cultural कार्यक्रम कार्यशील in the lead up to the street परेड on कार्निवल Monday और मंगलवार.
It is कहा कि if the islanders are नहीं celebrating it, तब वे are preparing लिये it, while reminiscing about the पास्ट year 's festival.
The दिल of the musical celebration रै महरूम calypso ; recently soca has replaced calypso as the most celebrated type of म्यूज़िक.
वेशभूषा, stickfighting and limbo competitions are भी important components of the पर्व.
कार्निवल as it is celebrated in त्रिनिदाद and टोबैगो is also मनाये in शहरों worldwide.
These including Toronto 's Caribana, मियामी 's Miami कार्निवल, ह्यूस्टन Carifest, लंदन 's नॉटिंग हिल Carnival as खूब as नई यॉर्क नगर 's Labor Day कार्निवल to नाम a few.
कार्निवल was created जब West African स्लेव mimicked their फ्रेंच owners जो where known लिये their lavish वेशभूषा balls.
Forbidden to partake in ये festivities और confined to उनके quarters, slaves combined तत्व इससे their अपना cultures to their master 's fete.
hence the creation of वर्ण ऐसे as jab jab or Jab Molassie ( Devils ), Midnight Robbers, Imps, lagahroo, soucouyant, la diablesse and Demons.
साथ the abolition of slavery in 1838, freed Africans took उनके version of Carnival to the गलियों through expression of drums, riddim भाग like tamboo बाँसुरी और as each नई immigrant population डाला त्रिनिदाद, कार्निवल विकसित into कया we जान today.
the नगर of शिकागो, Illinois held a nonpartisan mayoral चुनाव on Tuesday, February 22, 2011.
लाज़िम Mayor Richard M. Daley, a सदस्य of the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी who had been in office चूंकि 1989, did not तलाश a सातवाँ पद as mayor.
Candidates needed to collect 12,500 petition signatures by November 22, 2010 to qualify लिये a place on the ballot.
April 5, 2011 थी scheduled to be a runoff election date if no candidate प्राप्त an absolute बहुमत.
Rahm Emanuel जीती the race for महापौर साथ अधिक than 55 % of the vote.
He थी उदघाटन on may 16, 2011.
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' is a सोंग by American इंडी पॉप band फोस्टर the People.
It थी released as the समूह 's डेब्यू single in September 2010, और the following साल was included on उनके EP Foster the People और their debut एल्बम Torches.
`` Pumped Up kicks '' became the group 's भेदन hit and was one of the most लोकप्रिय songs of 2011.
the सोंग was written and recorded by frontman चिह्नित फोस्टर जबकि he was working as a commercial jingle writer.
चिहृ with the upbeat musical संयोजन, the lyrics describe the homicidal विचार of a troubled youth.
The track प्राप्त considerable ध्यान after it was posted online in 2010 as a फ़्री डाउनलोड, and it helped the समूह garner a multi-album record deal with कोलंबिया Records imprint Startime International.
`` उत्तेजित Up Kicks '' proved to be a स्लीपर hit ; in 2011, बाद receiving significant airplay on modern rock stations, the song crossed-over onto contemporary hit radio stations.
the सोंग spent eight लगातार weeks at क्रमांक three on the Billboard hot 100 चार्ट in the United States, making it the पहला Billboard वैकल्पिक Songs number-one single to क्रैक the U.S. top 5 चूंकि किंग्स of लिओन 's `` Use Somebody `` in 2009.
the song was widely praised by critics, and it has महरूम licensed for use in a चौड़ी दायरा of popular मीडिया since इसके रिलीज.
`` उत्तेजित Up kicks '' प्राप्त a Grammy Award नामांकन for Best Pop Duo/Group प्रदर्शन.
The State Fair of West वर्जिनिया is an सालाना state मेला for वेस्ट Virginia.
It is held annually in mid-August on the State Fairgrounds in fairlea, near Lewisburg, वेस्ट Virginia in the southeastern part of the state.
The राज्य Fairgrounds consists of a विशाल open field for carnivals and exhibitions, a horse track, grandstands, and अनेक exhibition इमारतें.
Free पार्किंग is provided adjacent to the fairgrounds और, until 2006, free camping थी also available in a large फ़ील्ड साथ running-water toilets and बौछार, but no hookups.
Campers हैं अभी चार्ज a छोटी शुल्क.
The श्वेत House, the president 's आधिकारिक निवास और बीच of the administration
अंतर्गत the United राज्य संविधान, the President of the United राज्य is the सिर of state और head of government of the United राज्य.
as chief of the कार्यपालिका branch and head of the federal सरकारी as a पूरे, the प्रेसिडेंसी is the उच्चतम political office in the संयुक्त States by influence and recognition.
the अध्यक्ष is also the commander-in-chief of the संयुक्त States Armed Forces.
the president is indirectly निर्वाचित to a four-year पद by an चुनावी College ( or by the हाउस of Representatives should the चुनावी कॉलेज असफल to award an absolute बहुमत of votes to any व्यक्ति ).
Since the ratification of the twenty-second Amendment to the United राज्य संविधान in 1951, no व्यक्ति may be निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष more than twice, and no one जो रै served more than two years of a term to जिससे किसी else थी निर्वाचित may be elected more than एकबार.
upon the death, इस्तीफा, or हटाना from office of an लाज़िम President, the वाइस अध्यक्ष assumes the office.
The अध्यक्ष जरूर be at least 35 years of आयु and a `` natural born '' नागरिक of the United राज्य.
This list includes only those persons who were sworn into office as president following the ratification of the United States संविधान, जिससे took effect on March 4, 1789.
For अमरीकी leaders before this अनुसमर्थन, देखिए President of the Continental Congress.
The सूची करता not include any Acting Presidents under the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United राज्य Constitution.
वहीँ have been 43 people sworn into office, और 44 presidencies, as Grover Cleveland परोसा two non-consecutive शर्तें और is counted chronologically as दोनो the 22nd और 24th president.
Of the individuals निर्वाचित as president, four died in office of natural causes ( विलियम हेनरी Harrison, Zachary टेलर, वारेन G. हार्डिंग, and फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट ), four were assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln, James A. Garfield, विलियम McKinley, और John F. कैनेडी ) और एक resigned ( Richard Nixon ).
George वॉशिंगटन, the पहला अध्यक्ष, was inaugurated in 1789 after a सर्वसम्मत vote of the Electoral College.
William हेनरी Harrison spent the shortest time in office with 32 days in 1841, and फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट spent the longest with over बारह सालो, लकिन died shortly into his चौथी term in 1945.
he is the only अध्यक्ष to serve अधिक than two terms, and a संवैधानिक amendment, affecting presidents बाद हैरी Truman, was passed to सीमा the क्रमांक of times an individual can be निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष.
Andrew Jackson, the seventh अध्यक्ष, was the पहला to be निर्वाचित by मेन of सब classes in 1828 after most laws barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed.
Warren Harding was the first elected बाद women gained voting rights in 1920.
History records four presidents – John q एडम्स, Rutherford B. हेज़, Benjamin Harrison and जार्ज W. Bush – जो lost the popular vote लकिन assumed दफ्तर.
जॉन F. कैनेडी has been the only president of Roman Catholic faith, and the वर्तमान अध्यक्ष, Barack Obama, is the पहला अध्यक्ष of अफ़्रीकी descent.
`` लोम्बार्डी Trophy '' redirects here.
For the award awarded annually to the बेहतरीन college फ़ुटबॉल lineman or linebacker, देखिए Lombardi पुरस्कार.
the विंस Lombardi Trophy is the trophy awarded प्रत्येक year to the winning टोली of the National Football League 's championship game, the सुपर Bowl.
The trophy is named in सम्मान of legendary NFL कोच Vince Lombardi.
This is a list of tables of the verified oldest people in the संसार in ordinal rank, ऐसे as oldest person or oldest man.
In these टेबल, a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if his or her अर्जी रै महरूम validated by an अंतरराष्ट्रीय देह कि specifically deals in longevity शोध, such as the Gerontology Research समूह ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records.
The longest unambiguously documented इंसान lifespan is कि of jeanne Calment of France ( 1875–1997 ), who died at आयु 122 years, 164 days.
She met Vincent वैन Gogh when वो थी 12 or 13.
इस led to न्यूज media ध्यान in 1985, after Calment turned 110.
subsequent छानबीन मिला documentation for Calment 's age, परे कोई reasonable question, in the records of her देशी city, Arles, France.
अधिक प्रमाण of Calment 's जीवनकाल has महरूम उत्पादित than for any other supercentenarian ; her मामला serves as an archetype in the methodology for verifying the ages of the संसार 's oldest people.
The longest undisputed lifespan लिये male supercentenarians is that of Jiroemon Kimura, जो currently lives in Japan and is आयु as of.
चूंकि the मौत of 115-year बूढ़ा Dina Manfredini of the संयुक्त States, on 17 December 2012, Kimura, born 19 April 1897, is the oldest living person in the world जिनकी आयु can be documented.
he रै भी महरूम the oldest जीना man since the death of 114-year old Walter breuning on 14 April 2011.
चूंकि the मौत of 115-year old Koto Okubo of Japan on 12 जनवरी 2013, the oldest living स्त्री has been -year-old misao Okawa, भी from Japan, born on 5 March 1898.
The लोगों 's अदालत is an अमरीकी arbitration-based reality court show, फिलहाल presided over by retired फ्लोरिडा State सर्किट अदालत न्यायधीश मर्लिन Milian, in which छोटी claims disputes are संभाला.
the People 's Court is the पहला court show to उपयोग बाइंडिंग मध्यस्थता, introducing the format into the विधा in 1981.
the system has been duplicated by most of the दिखाएँ 's successors in the न्यायिक विधा.
Moreover, the लोगों 's Court is the पहला popular, long-running वास्तविकता in the न्यायिक genre.
it थी preceded only by a few short-lived हकीकत in the genre ; these short-lived predecessors were only loosely सम्बन्धित to न्यायिक कार्यवाही, except लिये एक : Parole ( 1959 ) took footage from real-life courtrooms holding legal कार्यवाही.
prior to The People 's Court, the vast बहुमत of TV courtroom shows used actors, and बनाई or fictional cases ( as did radio पहले that ).
Among examples of these types of court shows include Famous Jury Trials and Your Witness.
the People 's अदालत has था दो contrasting lives.
The show 's पहला जीवन was presided over solely by former Los एंजिल्स County Superior Court Judge Joseph Wapner.
His कार्यकाल lasted इससे the show 's debut on September 14, 1981, जबतक May 21, 1993, when the दिखाएँ was रद्द due to कम ratings.
This बाएँ the दिखाएँ साथ a total of 2,484 1⁄2-hour episodes and 12 seasons.
the show थी taped in Los एंजिल्स during इसके first life.
बाद होने रद्द, reruns aired जबतक सितंबर 9, 1994.
On सितंबर 8, 1997, बाद being out of production for four सालो, The लोगों 's अदालत थी revived लिये a second life in first-run अनुप्रयोग as a 60-minute कार्यक्रम.
Former वकील और Mayor of नई यॉर्क ed koch was chosen as arbiter, जिससे he maintained लिये 2 सीज़न from the 1997–98 ऋतु through the 1998–99 ऋतु ( the उपस्थित जीवन 's 2nd season and overall दिखाएँ 's 14th ).
by the 1999–00 ऋतु, husband of Judith Sheindlin ( who presides over न्यायधीश Judy ) और पूर्व New York राज्य परम् अदालत न्यायधीश जेरी Sheindlin succeeded koch.
Sheindlin lasted one and a half सीज़न as he was replaced towards the समाप्त of the 2000–01 season ( present life 's 4th ऋतु and overall show 's 17th ).
Beginning in spring 2001, फ्लोरिडा judge Marilyn Milian took over The People 's Court और रै presided over the show कभी चूंकि.
Once milian completes the 2012–13 season, she will have served as longest arbiter over the श्रेणी साथ 12 और a हाफ seasons.
as of the उपस्थित, however, उसके सालो on the program टाई wapner at 12 seasons.
In the 2009-10 television season, The People 's Courts 2nd/present life outlasted its first जब it पहुँचे 13 seasons.
जबकि the दिखाएँ taped in New यॉर्क City for the first 15 seasons of its दूसरी जीवन, it अभी tapes in Stamford, Connecticut as of the 2012-13 season.
On September 3, 2012, The लोगों 's Court 's 2nd/present जीवन entered its 16th season ( 28th overall season ).
With 28 total seasons, The लोगों 's Court ranks as the 2nd longest-running courtroom program behind the ongoing Divorce Court at 33 seasons ( from its 3 combined lives ).
Utah ( or ) ( arapaho : Wo'tééneihí ' ) is a राज्य in the पश्चिमी संयुक्त States.
It became the 45th state admitted to the संघ on जनवरी 4, 1896.
यूटा is the 13th-largest, the 34th-most populous, और the 10th-least-densely आबादी of the 50 United राज्य.
लगभग 80 % of यूटा 's 2,817,222 लोगों live along the wasatch सामने, centering on Salt Lake City, leaving विशाल expanses of the state nearly uninhabited and बनाना the population the sixth सबसे urbanized in the U.S. Utah is bordered by Colorado on the east, व्योमिंग on the पूर्वोत्तर, idaho on the north, एरिज़ोना on the south, and Nevada on the west.
it also छू a कोने of नई मैक्सिको on the southeast.
Utah is the सबसे religiously समरूप state in the Union.
लगभग 63 % of utahns are reported to be members of the गिरिजाघर of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints or lds ( Mormons ), जिससे greatly influences Utah संस्कृति and daily life.
The world मुख्यालय of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ( LDS गिरिजाघर ) is located in यूटा 's state पूंजी.
the state is a center of परिवहन, education, information technology and शोध, government services, mining, and a major tourist destination लिये बाहरी मनोरंजन.
According to the U.S. Census Bureau 's population estimates, यूटा is the fifth fastest-growing state in the United राज्य as of 2012.
St. जार्ज, was the fastest–growing metropolitan area in the United States from 2000 to 2005.
a 2012 gallup नेशनल survey मिला Utah overall to be the `` best state to live in '' based on 13 forward-looking measurements including विभिन्न आर्थिक, जीवनशैली, and health-related outlook metrics.
Coldwater is a small कस्बा in टेट County, मिसिसिपी.
it is in the Memphis महानगर Area.
The जनसांख्यिकी was 1,674 at the 2000 census.
the hard palate is a पतला horizontal bony plate of the skull, located in the छत of the मुँह.
it spans the arch formed by the upper दांत.
It is formed by the palatine प्रक्रम of the maxilla and horizontal थाली of palatine अस्थि.
it फ़ॉर्म a विभाजन between the nasal passages और the mouth.
भी on the anterior portion of the roof of the मुश्किल palate is the Rugae which हैं the irregular ridges in the mucous झिल्ली कि help facilitate the movement of खाना backwards towards the pharynx.
This विभाजन is continued deeper into the मुँह by a मांसल एक्सटेंशन called the soft palate.
पूरा set of scrolls, constituting the संपूर्ण Tanakh.
the Tanakh (, or ; भी tenakh, tenak, Tanach ) is a name प्रयुक्त in Judaism लिये the canon of the Hebrew Bible.
The Tanakh is also ज्ञात as the Masoretic Text or the Miqra.
The name is an acronym formed from the आरंभिक Hebrew letters of the masoretic Text 's three परंपरागत subdivisions : the Torah ( `` शिक्षण '', भी known as the पाँच Books of Moses ), nevi'im ( `` Prophets '' ) and ketuvim ( `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh.
the name `` miqra '' ( מקרא ), meaning `` that which is पढ़ा '', is an वैकल्पिक Hebrew पद for the Tanakh.
The books of the Tanakh were relayed with an accompanying मौखिक tradition passed on by प्रत्येक generation, called the मौखिक Torah.
Sobriety checkpoint in Germany
Driving under the influence ( DUI ), driving while intoxicated ( dwi ), drunken driving, drunk ड्राइविंग, पेय driving, ऑपरेटिंग under the influence, पीने और ड्राइविंग, or impaired driving is the crime of driving a motor vehicle with blood स्तर of alcohol in excess of a legal limit ( `` Blood Alcohol Content '', or `` BAC '' ).
Similar regulations cover driving or operating certain types of मशीनरी while affected by पीने दारू or taking अन्य दवाएँ, including, लकिन नहीं सीमित to prescription दवाएँ.
This is a दण्ड ठोकर in सबसे nations.
Convictions do not necessarily involve actual ड्राइविंग of the vehicle.
in सबसे jurisdictions a measurement ऐसे as a blood alcohol content ( bac ) in excess of a specific दहलीज स्तर, ऐसे as 0.05 % or 0.08 % defines the offense, साथ no need to prove impairment or होने under the influence of alcohol.
in some jurisdictions, there is an aggravated category of the offense at a higher level e.g. 0.12 %.
In सबसे देशों, anyone who is convicted of injuring or हत्या someone while अंतर्गत the influence of दारू or दवाएँ can be heavily fined, as in France, in addition to being given a lengthy prison वाक्य.
कुछ jobs have उनके अपना rules और BAC हद, लिये example commercial pilot, और the संघीय Railroad Administration in the United States has a 0.04 % सीमा for train crew.
Some jurisdictions have multiple स्तर of bac ; लिये example, the state of कैलिफ़ोर्निया has a 0.08 % BAC सीमा, जिससे is lowered to 0.04 % if the ऑपरेटर holds a वाणिज्यिक driver 's license.
The कैलिफ़ोर्निया BAC limit is 0.01 % for those younger than 21 सालो of age and those on probation for a previous dui conviction.
कुछ large corporations have their own rules ; Union प्रशांत रेलरोड has their अपना bac limit of 0.02 % that, if violated during a यादृच्छिक test or a for-cause परीक्षण — for example, after a traffic accident — can परिणाम in termination of नियुक्ति with no मौका of future re-hire.
Many states in the U.S. and provinces in Canada have adopted सच्चाई in sentencing laws कि enforce strict guidelines on sentencing, differing from previous अभ्यास where prison time was घटाया or निलंबित बाद sentencing had been issued.
कुछ jurisdictions have judicial दिशानिर्देश requiring a mandatory minimum sentence.
दंड for DUI आरोप दायरा from expensive fees to forfetiruree of your license plates and in कुछ serious circumstances, अपना गाडी.
a drunk driving simulator in Montréal, Canada
The specific दण्ड offense may be called, depending on the क्षेत्राधिकार, driving अंतर्गत the influence [ of alcohol or other दवाएँ ] ( dui ), driving under intense influence ( DUII ), driving while intoxicated ( DWI ), operating अंतर्गत the influence ( OUI ) operating while intoxicated ( OWI ), operating a मोटर गाडी जबकि intoxicated ( omvi ), driving under the संयुक्त influence of alcohol and/or other दवाएँ, driving under the influence प्रति se or नशे in charge [ of a vehicle ].
अनेक such कानून लागू भी to motorcycling, boating, piloting वायुयान, use of motile farm उपकरण ऐसे as tractors and combines, riding घोड़े or driving a horse-drawn vehicle, or bicycling, संभवतः साथ different bac level than driving.
In कुछ jurisdictions वहीँ are separate charges depending on the गाडी used, ऐसे as BWI ( bicycling जबकि intoxicated ), जिससे may carry a lighter वाक्य.
in the United राज्य, लोकल law enforcement agencies बना 1,467,300 arrests देशभर for driving अंतर्गत the influence of alcohol in 1996, compared to 1.9 million ऐसे रखवाले during the शिखर साल in 1983.
In 1997 an estimated 513,200 DWI अपराधियों यहूद in थाना or कारावास, down from 593,000 in 1990 and up इससे 270,100 in 1986.
Officers इससे US कस्टम and Border सुरक्षा boarding a ship
Law enforcement in the United States is एक of three major components of the criminal justice प्रणाली of the United States, along with courts and corrections.
हालांकि वहीँ exists an inherent interrelatedness between the अलग groups that make up the criminal justice प्रणाली based on their अपराधों deterrence purpose, प्रत्येक घटक operates independently इससे एक another.
However, the judiciary is vested with the शक्ति to make legal determinations regarding the conduct of the अन्य two components.
अलावा इससे maintaining अनुक्रम and service कृत्यों, the purpose of policing is the investigation of suspected criminal activity और the referral of the results of investigations and of suspected criminals to the न्यायालयों.
Law enforcement, to varying डिग्री at अलग स्तर of government and in अलग एजेंसियों, is भी commonly charged with the responsibilities of deterring दण्ड कार्यकलाप और of preventing the successful commission of अपराधों in progress ; the सेवा और enforcement of वारंट, writs and other orders of the courts.
Law enforcement agencies हैं also involved in providing पहला जवाब to emergencies and अन्य खतरे to पब्लिक सुरक्षा ; the protection of certain public facilities and infrastructure ; the मेंटेनेंस of पब्लिक order ; the protection of public officials ; और the आपरेशन of some correctional facilities ( usually at the लोकल स्तर ).
Elmer Figueroa Arce ( born June 28, 1968 ), बेहतरीन known under the stage नाम chayanne, is a प्यूर्टो rican Latin pop सिंगर and कर्ता.
as a सोलो artist, Chayanne रै released 21 solo albums and sold over 15 लाख एल्बम worldwide.
`` World युद्ध Hulk '' is a comic किताब crossover storyline that ran through a self titled limited series and various other titles प्रकाशित by आश्चर्य कॉमिक्स in 2007, featuring the Hulk.
the श्रेणी consists of five main मुद्दे titled World War हल्क, with Greg पाक as writer and John romita, Jr. as penciller, and तीन other सीमित श्रेणी : संसार War Hulk : Front लकीर, संसार युद्ध Hulk : Gamma corps, and संसार War हल्क : x-men.
It also ran through अनेक other Marvel कॉमिक्स series.
the प्लाट is the culmination of a series of कार्यक्रम that began साथ the Hulk being tricked into स्पेस by the illuminati and a जीवन मॉडल decoy of उपनाम Fury, the हल्क 's subsequent exile देखी in Planet Hulk and उसके निकट वापसी to Earth to seek बदला on the illuminati.
Marion Mitchell Morrison ( born Marion Robert Morrison ; may 26, 1907 – जून 11, 1979 ), better ज्ञात by his stage नाम John Wayne, was an American फिल्मी actor, director and producer.
An Academy Award -winner, Wayne was among the शीर्ष बक्सा office draws for three दशकों, and was named the all-time top money-making star.
An enduring American icon, he epitomized rugged मर्दानगी और is famous for his demeanor, सहित his distinctive calm आवाज़, walk, और height.
Wayne थी born in winterset, Iowa but his family relocated to the greater Los Angeles क्षेत्रफल जब he was four years old.
he मिला work at लोकल फिल्मी studios जब he lost his football scholarship to USC as a परिणाम of a bodysurfing accident.
Initially working for the फॉक्स Film निगम, he ज़्यादातर appeared in small bit parts.
उसके पहला leading भूमिका came in the widescreen एपिक The बिग Trail ( 1930 ), जिससे led to leading भूमिकाएँ in numerous films throughout the 1930s, अनेक of them in the western विधा.
His career rose to further heights in 1939, with John घाट 's Stagecoach making उसे an instant superstar.
Wayne होता go on to star in 142 तस्वीरें, primarily typecast in Western films.
Among उसके best ज्ञात later films are The शांत Man ( 1952 ), जिससे follows him as an Irish-American boxer और his प्रेम affair with a fiery spinster played by Maureen o'hara ; The Searchers ( 1956 ), in which he plays a सिविल War veteran जो seeks out उसके abducted niece ; रिओ Bravo ( 1959 ), playing a Sheriff with डीन Martin ; True Grit ( 1969 ), playing a humorous U.S. मार्शल जो सेट out to avenge a man 's मौत in the role कि जीती Wayne an अकादमी पुरस्कार ; and The shootist ( 1976 ), his फाइनल screen performance in जिससे he plays an aging gunslinger battling कर्कट.
वेन moved to Orange County, California in the 1960s, और was a prominent रिपब्लिकन in हॉलीवुड, supporting anti-communist positions.
He died of stomach cancer in 1979.
In June 1999, the American फिल्मी संस्थान named Wayne 13th among the Greatest पुरूष Screen Legends of सब Time.
गैलीलियो Galilei ( ; 15 February 1564 – 8 जनवरी 1642 ), was an Italian physicist, गणितज्ञ, astronomer, और philosopher who played a प्रमुख भूमिका in the Scientific Revolution.
His achievements शामिल सुधार to the telescope and consequent खगोलीय observations और support for Copernicanism.
Galileo has been पुकारा the `` father of modern observational खगोलशास्त्र ``, the `` father of modern physics ``, the `` father of science '', and `` the पिता of Modern Science ''.
उसके contributions to observational astronomy include the telescopic confirmation of the phases of शुक्र, the डिस्कवरी of the चार largest satellites of Jupiter ( नामित the Galilean moons in उसके इज्ज़त ), and the अवलोकन and analysis of sunspots.
Galileo भी worked in applied science and प्रौद्योगिकी, inventing an improved military कम्पास और अन्य instruments.
Galileo 's championing of heliocentrism was controversial within his आजीवन, जब most subscribed to either geocentrism or the Tychonic प्रणाली.
He मिले साथ विपक्ष from astronomers, who doubted heliocentrism due to the absence of an observed stellar लंबन.
the पदार्थ थी investigated by the रोमन Inquisition in 1615, and they concluded that it could be supported as only a सम्भावना, not an established फैक्ट.
Galileo later defended his views in Dialogue Concerning the दो Chief संसार प्रणालियों, which appeared to आक्रमण पोप Urban VIII और thus alienated him and the Jesuits, जो had दोनो supported Galileo up जबतक इस point.
He थी आजमाया by the Inquisition, found `` vehemently suspect of heresy '', forced to recant, and खर्च the बाकी of his जीवन under हाउस गिरफ़्तार.
It थी जबकि Galileo थी under हाउस arrest कि he लिखा one of his finest works, Two New Sciences, in जिससे he summarised the work he had किया कुछ forty years पहले, on the दो sciences now called kinematics और शक्ति of materials.
55 '' LG oled TV showcased at CES 2012
प्रोटोटाइप OLED lighting panel developed by lumiotec
Demonstration of a flexible OLED यंत्र
an oled ( organic light-emitting diode ) is a light-emitting diode ( LED ) in which the emissive electroluminescent परत is a film of organic यौगिक which emits light in जवाब to an electric वर्तमान.
इस layer of सशुल्क semiconductor is situated between two electrodes.
generally, at तनिक एक of ये electrodes is transparent.
OLEDs हैं used to create डिजिटल displays in devices such as television screens, कंप्यूटर monitors, पोर्टेबल systems such as मोबाईल phones, हैंडहेल्ड games consoles and गुस्से.
a major क्षेत्रफल of research is the development of white OLED डिवाइस लिये उपयोग in solid-state lighting अनुप्रयोग.
वहीँ are two main परिवारों of oleds : those based on छोटी अणुओं and those employing polymers.
adding मोबाईल ions to an OLED creates a light-emitting electrochemical कोशिका or लैक, which has a थोड़ा different mode of आपरेशन.
oled displays can use either passive-matrix ( PMOLED ) or active-matrix संबोधित schemes.
active-matrix oleds ( AMOLED ) आवश्यकता a thin-film transistor backplane to स्विच प्रत्येक individual pixel on or off, लकिन allow for उच्चतर resolution and larger display आकार.
An oled प्रदर्शक works without a backlight.
Thus, it can display deep black levels and can be thinner और lighter than a liquid crystal प्रदर्शक ( LCD ).
in low परिवेश लाइट conditions ऐसे as a dark room an oled screen can achieve a higher contrast अनुपात than an LCD, whether the एलसीडी उपयोग cold cathode fluorescent lamps or LED backlight.
A carton and a glass of eggnog from Montreal, Canada, प्रर्दशित its French facade ( अंग्रेज़ी रिवर्स ) और the फ्रेंच term lait de poule ( literally, `` hen 's मिल्क '' )
Eggnog, or अंडा nog, is a sweetened dairy -आधारd beverage traditionally बना with मिल्क and/or मलाई, sugar, and whipped eggs ( which gives it a frothy texture ).
Brandy, rum, व्हिस्की, bourbon, वोदका, or a संयोजन of liquors are प्रायः added.
The finished सेवारत is often garnished with a sprinkling of ground cinnamon or जायफल.
It was भी known as the अंडा milk punch.
Eggnog is a लोकप्रिय drink throughout the United राज्य and Canada, and is usually associated साथ क्रिसमस.
eggnog may be added as a flavoring to food or drinks such as coffee and tea.
Eggnog as a custard can भी be used as an ice मलाई base.
A pasty (, ), ( sometimes ज्ञात in Britain as a Cornish pasty, and in the संयुक्त States as a pastie or अंग्रेजों pasty ) is a baked पेस्ट्री, a परंपरागत variety of जिससे is विशेषकर associated साथ कॉर्नवॉल, the westernmost काउंटी in इंग्लैण्ड.
It is made by रखकर uncooked भरना typically of meat and vegetables, बगैर meat in vegetarian संस्करण, on a चपटा pastry circle and फोल्डिंग it to रैप the filling, crimping the edge to form a seal.
After बेकिंग, the result is a उठाया semicircular comestible.
The traditional Cornish pasty, which has Protected Geographical indication ( pgi ) औकात in Europe, is filled साथ beef, sliced or diced potato, swede ( also ज्ञात as a yellow turnip or rutabaga – referred to in Cornwall as turnip ) और onion, seasoned साथ नमक and pepper, and is baked.
Today, the pasty is the खाना most संबद्ध साथ कॉर्नवॉल, it is regarded as the national डिश, and it खाते लिये 6 % of the Cornish खाना अर्थव्यवस्था.
pasties with अनेक different fillings are बना ; कुछ shops specialise in selling all sorts of pasties.
The origins of the pasty are unclear, though there हैं many references to them throughout ऐतिहासिक documents and fiction.
The pasty is now popular world-wide due to the स्प्रेड of cornish miners, और variations can be मिला in Australia, the संयुक्त राज्य, मैक्सिको and elsewhere.
The ( ortho- ) सहानुभूतिपूर्ण बेचैन system ( sns ) is one of तीन प्रमुख भाग of the autonomic nervous system : the अन्य होने the enteric and parasympathetic systems.
इसके general action is to mobilize the body 's बेचैन system fight-or-flight response.
It is, however, constantly active at a basic स्तर to maintain homeostasis.
Secure Digital or ( SD ) is a non-volatile memory card format for उपयोग in पोर्टेबल devices, such as मोबाईल phones, digital cameras, GPS नेविगेशन devices, और टैब्लेट कंप्यूटर.
The Secure Digital मानक is maintained by the sd कार्ड Association ( sda ).
sd technologies have been implemented in more than 400 ब्रांड्स across दर्जनों of उत्पाद categories and अधिक than 8,000 models.
The Secure Digital format शामिल चार कार्ड परिवारों available in three अलग form factors.
the four परिवारों are the original standard-capacity ( SDSC ), the High-Capacity ( SDHC ), the eXtended-Capacity ( sdxc ), and the sdio, which combines input/output कृत्यों साथ data भंडार.
The three form factors are the original आकार, the `` मिनी '' आकार, and the `` micro '' size ( see illustration ).
There are many combinations of form कारकों and device families.
Electrically passive adapters allow the use of a छोटी कार्ड in a मेजबान यंत्र built to थाम a larger कार्ड.
Host devices that comply with नए versions of the specification provide backward संगतता और accept पुरानी sd ताश, but this आलेख explains अनेक factors कि can prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A नए card may प्रस्ताव वृहद capacity than the मेजबान यंत्र can handle.
A नए card may उपयोग a file system the host device can नहीं navigate.
उपयोग of an SDIO कार्ड requires the host device be designed लिये the input/output functions the कार्ड provides.
the organization of the कार्ड थी changed starting with the sdhc परिवार.
कुछ vendors produced sdsc cards above 1 gb before the sda had मानकीकृत a विधि of doing so.
The sda उपयोग several trademarked logos to enforce compliance with its specifications and assure users of संगतता.
The following is a List of critics of the New सौदे.
डेनियल Lawrence व्हिटनी ( born फ़रवरी 17, 1963 ) best known by his stage name और अक्षर लैरी the Cable guy, is an American stand-up हास्य, actor, country music कलाकार, आवाज़ कर्ता, and पूर्व radio personality.
he was one of the members of the Blue Collar Comedy दौरे, a comedy troupe which included Bill Engvall, रॉन White, और जेफ़ Foxworthy ( साथ जिसको he रै starred on Blue Collar TV ).
Whitney has released seven कॉमेडी albums, of जिससे three have महरूम certified gold by the RIAA for शिपमेंट of 500,000 copies.
In जोड, he has starred in तीन Blue कॉलर Comedy tour-related movies, as well as in the films लैरी the केबल Guy : स्वास्थ्य Inspector, Delta Farce, and witless Protection, as well as voicing Mater in the Cars मताधिकार.
Whitney 's catchphrase : `` Git-R-Done ! '' is also the शीर्षक of his किताब.
On January 26, 2010, the tv channel History announced that it was ordering a series अभिनीत Whitney पुकारा तभी in America with लैरी the केबल guy, in which he would explore the देश और immerse himself in different lifestyles, jobs, और hobbies.
The first एपीसोड of the श्रेणी aired on February 8, 2011.
Vitamin D is a समूह of fat-soluble secosteroids जिम्मेदार लिये intestinal अवशोषण of calcium and phosphate.
In humans, the सबसे important related यौगिकों of vitamin D हैं विटामिन d2 and vitamin D3.
cholecalciferol ( विटामिन D3 ) and ergocalciferol ( विटामिन D2 ) are unique as they constitute कया we जान as vitamin D और can be ingested from the diet and/or supplements.
The body can also synthesize विटामिन d ( इससे cholesterol ) when sun एक्सपोज़र is पर्याप्त ( hence its nickname, the `` सनशाइन विटामिन '' ).
Although विटामिन D is commonly called a विटामिन, it is not actually an essential dietary vitamin in the strict sense, as it can be synthesized in adequate amounts by most स्तनधारियों exposed to sunlight.
( बिल्लियों and dogs can not synthesize विटामिन d efficiently and जरूर receive it in their diet. )
An organic chemical यौगिक ( or सम्बन्धित नियत of compounds ) is तभी scientifically पुकारा a vitamin जब it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an सजीव, और must be प्राप्त इससे उनके diet.
however, as with other यौगिकों commonly called vitamins, विटामिन d was खोजा in an effort to find the dietary पदार्थ that थी lacking in a बीमारी, namely, rickets, the बाल्यकाल रूप of osteomalacia.
Additionally, like other यौगिकों पुकारा vitamins, in the विकसित world विटामिन d is added to staple foods, ऐसे as milk, to avoid बीमारी due to deficiency.
Measures of सीरम levels प्रतिबिंबित endogenous synthesis इससे एक्सपोज़र to sunlight as खूब as सेवन from the diet, और it is believed that synthesis may contribute generally to the maintenance of adequate serum concentrations.
The evidence indicates that the संश्लेषण of विटामिन d from सूर्य exposure works in a feedback loop that prevents toxicity but, क्युकी of अनिश्चितता परिचय the cancer risk from धूप, no सुझाव are issued by the संस्थान of आयुर्विज्ञान, USA, for the amount of sun exposure required to meet विटामिन D आवश्यकताएँ.
Accordingly, the Dietary Reference Intakes for विटामिन D assume that no संश्लेषण occurs and कि all of a person 's vitamin D is from उनके diet, although कि will rarely occur in practice.
in the liver vitamin d is परिवर्तित to calcidiol, which is also known as calcifediol ( INN ), 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, or 25-hydroxyvitamin d—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D ; and which is the specific vitamin D metabolite that is measured in serum to determine a व्यक्ति 's vitamin d औकात.
भाग of the calcidiol is परिवर्तित by the kidneys to calcitriol, the biologically active form of vitamin D. Calcitriol circulates as a hormone in the blood, regulating the विशेषज्ञता of कैल्सियम और phosphate in the bloodstream and promoting the स्वस्थ विकास और remodeling of bone.
Calcidiol is भी परिवर्तित to calcitriol outside of the kidneys for other purposes, ऐसे as the अप्रसार, differentiation and apoptosis of कोशिकाएं ; calcitriol also affects neuromuscular function and inflammation.
परे इसके use to prevent osteomalacia or rickets, the प्रमाण लिये other health effects of vitamin d supplementation in the general population is inconsistent.
the best evidence of लाभ is लिये bone स्वास्थ्य and a decrease in मृत्यु in बुजुर्ग women.
मानक रूप of the periodic table.
the colors represent different श्रेणी of तत्व समझाया नीचे.
The आवधिक तालिका is a tabular प्रदर्शक of the रासायनिक elements, organized on the basis of their परमाणु numbers, इलेक्ट्रॉन configurations, and recurring रासायनिक properties.
Elements हैं प्रस्तुत in order of increasing परमाणु number ( number of protons ).
The मानक रूप of तालिका comprises an 18 × 7 grid or प्रमुख देह of elements, positioned above a smaller double पंक्ति of elements.
the तालिका can also be deconstructed into four rectangular blocks : the s-block to the left, the p-block to the सही, the d-block in the middle, और the f-block below that.
The पंक्ति of the तालिका हैं पुकारा अवधि ; the कालम of the s-, d-, and p-blocks हैं पुकारा groups, with कुछ of ये having names such as the हैलोजन्स or the प्रतिष्ठित gases.
Since, by परिभाषा, a आवधिक table incorporates recurring trends, कोई such तालिका can be used to derive संबंध between the properties of the तत्व और predict the properties of new, yet to be discovered or synthesized, तत्व.
As a परिणाम, a आवधिक table—whether in the standard रूप or कुछ अन्य variant—provides a useful फ्रेमवर्क लिये analyzing chemical behavior, and such tables हैं widely used in रसायन और other sciences.
Although precursors exist, Dmitri mendeleev is generally credited साथ the publication, in 1869, of the first widely पहचाना periodic तालिका.
he विकसित his table to illustrate periodic trends in the properties of the then-known elements.
Mendeleev भी predicted some गुण of then-unknown elements that would be अपेक्षित to भरण gaps in इस table.
सबसे of उसके पूर्वानुमान were proved correct जब the elements in सवाल were subsequently खोजा.
Mendeleev 's periodic table रै since been विस्तारित और refined with the discovery or synthesis of further नई elements और the development of new theoretical models to बताइये chemical बर्ताव.
All elements इससे atomic संख्याएँ 1 ( hydrogen ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have महरूम discovered or synthesized.
The elements इससे 1 to 98 ( californium ) have been found to exist naturally, although some are मिला तभी in ट्रेस amounts और were initially खोजा by synthesis in laboratories.
The elements after 98 have तभी महरूम synthesized in laboratories.
उत्पादन of elements beyond ununoctium is being धड़ा, साथ the question of how the periodic तालिका may need to be modified to accommodate any such additions होने a matter of जारी debate.
Numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally occurring elements have also been produced in laboratories.
Minimum मजदूरी by U.S. state and u.S. territory ( अमरीकी Samoa, Guam, प्यूर्टो Rico, Virgin Islands ), as of jan. 1, 2013.
In the United States, workers हैं generally entitled to be paid no less than the statutory minimum wage.
The संघीय सरकारी mandates a nationwide न्यूनतम मजदूरी level of $ 7.25 per hour, जबकि some राज्य and municipalities have नियत minimum मजदूरी levels higher than the federal level, with the highest state minimum wage होने $ 9.19 प्रति घंटा in Washington as of 2013.
Among those paid by the hour in 2012, 1.6 लाख were reported as कमाई exactly the prevailing federal minimum wage.
About 2.0 million were reported as earning wages below the न्यूनतम.
Together, these 3.6 लाख workers with मजदूरी at or below the न्यूनतम made up 4.7 प्रतिशत of सब hourly-paid मजदूर.
a selection of Bourbons and टेनेसी whiskeys offered at a liquor store in Decatur, जॉर्जिया
evan Williams bourbon whiskey
bourbon whiskey is a type of अमरीकी whiskey – a barrel-aged आसुत spirit बना primarily from मकई.
The name of the spirit derives इससे इसके ऐतिहासिक संघ with an area ज्ञात as Old bourbon, around what is now Bourbon काउंटी, Kentucky ( which, in turn, थी named after the French House of Bourbon royal family ).
it has महरूम produced चूंकि the 18th सदी.
जबकि it may be बना anywhere in the संयुक्त States, it is strongly संबद्ध साथ the American South in सामान्य, और Kentucky in particular.
the Mona Lisa ( la Gioconda or la Joconde ) is a half-length पोर्ट्रेट of a woman by the Italian artist Leonardo da विंची, जिससे रै been acclaimed as `` the बेहतरीन known, the most visited, the most written परिचय, the सबसे sung परिचय, the सबसे parodied work of आर्ट in the world. ''
The painting, विचार to be a पोर्ट्रेट of लिसा Gherardini, the बीवी of Francesco डेल Giocondo, is in आयल on a poplar panel, and is believed to have been painted between 1503 and 1506.
it was acquired by किंग Francis i of France and is अभी the प्रॉपर्टी of the French Republic, on स्थाई display at the musée du Louvre in Paris चूंकि 1797.
the ambiguity of the subject 's अभिव्यक्ति, जिससे is frequently वर्णित as enigmatic, the monumentality of the composition, the subtle modeling of forms and the वायुमंडलीय illusionism were अनोखा qualities कि have contributed to the continuing fascination और पढ़ाई of the work.
Robert एलन Palmer ( 19 January 1949 – 26 September 2003 ), थी an अंग्रेज़ी singer-songwriter and musician.
he was ज्ञात for his distinctive आवाज़ and the eclectic mix of musical शैलियाँ on his एल्बम, combining soul, जैज़, rock, pop, reggae and ब्लूज़.
He found कामयाबी both in his solo career और in the musical act The Power Station, and had Top 10 songs in both the UK and the us.
His iconic music videos by टेरेंस Donovan लिये the हिट्स `` Addicted to प्रेम `` और `` बस irresistible `` featured identically वेश नाचना महिलाओं with pale चेहरों, dark eye मेकअप और उज्जवल रेड लिपस्टिक, which resembled the women in the आर्ट of Patrick Nagel, an artist लोकप्रिय in the 1980s.
sharp-suited, his भागीदारी in the music industry commenced in the 1960s, covered five decades and शामिल a spell with Vinegar Joe.
Palmer received a number of awards throughout उसके करियर, सहित two Grammy Awards लिये Best पुरूष चट्टान Vocal Performance, an MTV वीडियो म्यूज़िक Award, और was twice मनोनीत लिये the ब्रिट Award for बेहतरीन अंग्रेजों Male.
Computed tomography एंजियोग्राफी ( CTA ) is a computed tomography technique used to visualize arterial and venous vessels throughout the देह.
इस सीमाएँ इससे arteries सेवारत the brain to those bringing रक्त to the फेफड़े, kidneys, बाहें और legs.
The champs-élysées सजा with ध्वज लिये bastille Day
Horseman of the French Republican गार्ड during the 2007 military परेड on the Champs-Élysées.
Prise de la bastille by Jean-Pierre-Louis-Laurent houel
Bastille Day is the name given in English-speaking countries to the फ्रेंच नेशनल Day, जिससे is celebrated on the 14th of July प्रत्येक साल.
In France, it is formally called La fête nationale ( ; The नेशनल Celebration ) and commonly Le quatorze juillet ( ; the fourteenth of July ).
It commemorates the 1790 fête de la Fédération, आयोजित on the first anniversary of the storming of the Bastille on 14 July 1789 ; the वर्षगांठ of the storming of the Bastille fortress-prison was देखी as a symbol of the uprising of the आधुनिक स्वदेश, और of the reconciliation of सब the French inside the संवैधानिक साम्राज्य which preceded the First Republic, दौरान the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति.
Festivities and official ceremonies are held all over France.
the oldest and largest नियमित military parade in Europe is आयोजित on the morning of 14 July, on the champs-élysées एवेन्यू in पेरिस in front of the अध्यक्ष of the Republic, French officials and विदेशी अतिथि.
the United राज्य of America ( USA or u.s.A. ), commonly पुकारा the United राज्य ( US or U.S. ) or America, is a संघीय गणतंत्र consisting of पचास states और a federal district.
the lower forty-eight contiguous states and the federal ज़िला of वॉशिंगटन, D.C. हैं in सेंट्रल North America between Canada and Mexico.
The राज्य of अलास्का is west of Canada and east of Russia across the बेरिंग Strait, and the state of Hawaii is in the mid-North प्रशांत.
the देश भी रै five populated और nine unpopulated territories in the Pacific and the caribbean.
at 3.79 लाख square मील ( 9.83 million km2 ) and with around 315 million people, the संयुक्त States is the third- or fourth-largest country by total area और the third-largest by दोनो land area और population.
It is one of the संसार 's सबसे ethnically विविध और multicultural राष्ट्र, the product of large-scale आव्रजन from अनेक देशों.
the geography और जलवायु of the U.S. is भी अत्यधिक diverse, with रेगिस्तान, plains, forests, and mountains कि हैं home to a wide variety of प्रजाति.
Paleoindians migrated from Asia to कया is अभी the संयुक्त States मेनलैंड around 15,000 years ago.
After 1500, बूढ़ा World रोगों introduced by Europeans greatly reduced उनके populations.
यूरोपीय colonization began around 1600 और came mostly from England.
The संयुक्त States emerged इससे thirteen British colonies located साथ the Atlantic seaboard.
Disputes between Great ब्रिटेन और the American colonies led to the American Revolution.
on July 4, 1776, delegates from the 13 colonies unanimously जारी the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता, जिससे established the United राज्य of America.
The American Revolutionary War, जिससे ended with the मान्यता of स्वतंत्रता of the संयुक्त राज्य इससे the Kingdom of Great Britain, थी the first successful war of independence विरूद्ध a European औपनिवेशिक empire.
The current संविधान was अपनाया on सितंबर 17, 1787 ; twenty-seven amendments have चूंकि been added to the संविधान.
the पहला ten amendments, collectively named the Bill of अधिकारों, were ratified in 1791 और गारंटी many fundamental सिविल अधिकारों और freedoms.
चलित by the doctrine of manifest destiny, the संयुक्त States embarked on a vigorous expansion आरपार North अमेरिका throughout the 19th सदी.
This involved displacing देशी tribes, acquiring new territories, and धीरे admitting new states.
The American सिविल War ended legalized slavery in the United States.
By the समाप्त of the nineteenth सदी, the United राज्य extended into the Pacific Ocean, and इसके economy was the संसार 's largest.
The Spanish–American War and confirmed the country 's औकात as a global सैन्य शक्ति.
The संयुक्त States emerged from as a वैश्विक superpower, the पहला country साथ नाभिकीय हथियार, और a स्थाई member of the United Nations Security Council.
the end of the Cold War और the विच्छेद of the Soviet संघ left the United राज्य as the एकमात्र महाशक्ति.
the United राज्य is a विकसित देश and has the संसार 's largest national अर्थव्यवस्था, with an estimated 2012 जीडीपी of $ 15.6 खरब 19 % of global GDP at purchasing-power parity, as of 2011.
the प्रति capita GDP of the u.S. was the संसार 's sixth-highest as of 2010, हालांकि अमेरिका 's wealth असमानता was भी ranked highest among oecd देशों by the World Bank.
The economy is fueled by an प्रचुरता of प्राकृतिक resources, a well-developed infrastructure, and ऊँची productivity ; और जबकि its economy is considered post-industrial it continues to be one of the संसार 's largest manufacturers.
The देश खाते for 39 % of वैश्विक military बिता, and is a leading economic, political, and cultural फ़ोर्स in the world, as well as a leader in scientific research and technological नवीनता.
The ncaa Men 's प्रभाग I Basketball Championship is a single-elimination टूर्नामेंट played each वसन्त in the United States, currently featuring 68 college बास्केट teams, to determine the national championship of the major college basketball टीमों.
the tournament, व्यवस्थित by the National Collegiate एथलेटिक Association ( ncaa ), was created during 1939 by the नेशनल Association of Basketball Coaches, और was the idea of Ohio State विश्वविद्यालयों कोच Harold Olsen.
Played mostly दौरान March, it is known informally as March Madness or the Big Dance, और रै become एक of the most famous सालाना sporting events in the United States.
The NCAA has credited Bob Walsh of the Seattle आयोजन कमेटी for starting the कूच दीवानगी celebration दौरान 1984.
The टूर्नामेंट teams शामिल champions from 31 Division I conferences ( which प्राप्त automatic bids ), और 37 teams which are awarded at-large berths.
ये `` at-large '' teams are chosen by an NCAA selection कमेटी, as detailed नीचे.
The 64 teams हैं विभाजित into चार regions और organized into a सिंगल विलोपन `` bracket '', which predetermines, when a टोली wins a game, जिससे टोली it will face next.
प्रत्येक team is `` seeded '', or ranked, within its region.
बाद an आरंभिक four खेल between eight lower-ranked टीमों, the टूर्नामेंट occurs दौरान the कोर्स of three weekends, at pre-selected न्यूट्रल sites around the United States.
Lower-ranked teams are लगाई in the कोष्ठक विरूद्ध higher क्रमित teams.
Each वीकेंड eliminates three-fourths of the teams, from a round of 64, to a `` Sweet सोलह '', और लिये the पिछला weekend of the टूर्नामेंट a Final चार ; the Final Four is usually निभाई during the पहला weekend of April.
ये four टीमों, one इससे प्रत्येक region, तब compete in one स्थान लिये the national championship.
the tournament has been at least partially televised since 1969.
Presently, the games are reported by सीबीएस, tbs, टीएनटी, and truTV by the trade-name NCAA कूच दीवानगी.
Since 2011, all खेल are उपलब्धियाँ लिये viewing देशभर.
as television कवरेज has grown, so too has the टूर्नामेंट 's लोकप्रियता.
Presently, millions of Americans `` fill आउट a bracket '', predicting विजेता of सब 67 games.
साथ 11 national शीर्षक, UCLA रै the रिकार्ड for the सबसे NCAA Men 's Division I बास्केट championships ; जॉन Wooden coached UCLA to 10 of its 11 titles.
the University of Kentucky is second, with 8 national शीर्षक, जबकि इंडियाना University and the University of उत्तर Carolina are tied for third साथ 5 national शीर्षक.
Duke University ranks fifth साथ 4 national titles.
a sample of सिंथेटिक motor oil
सिंथेटिक oil is a lubricant consisting of chemical compounds कि हैं artificially made ( synthesized ).
Synthetic lubricants can be manufactured using chemically परिवर्धित पेट्रोलियम components rather than whole crude आयल, but can also be synthesized इससे अन्य raw materials.
सिंथेटिक oil is used as a substitute लिये lubricant refined from पेट्रोलियम when operating in extremes of temperature, क्युकी, in सामान्य, it provides superior mechanical and रासायनिक properties than those found in परंपरागत mineral oils.
Aircraft jet engines, for example, require the use of synthetic oils, whereas वायुयान piston engines do not.
Jackass is an अमरीकी वास्तविकता series, originally shown on MTV इससे 2000 to 2002, featuring people performing विभिन्न dangerous, crude self-injuring stunts and pranks.
The show served as a launchpad लिये the television और एक्टिंग करियर of Bam Margera, steve-o, and also जॉनी Knoxville, who previously था only a few नाबालिग एक्टिंग भूमिकाएँ.
Since 2002, three Jackass films have महरूम produced and released by MTV corporate सहोदर सर्वोपरि तस्वीरें, continuing the मताधिकार after इसके run on television.
the show sparked several spin-offs including Viva La Bam, wildboyz, Homewrecker, dr. Steve-O and blastazoid.
The show लगाई # 68 on Entertainment Weekly `` नई tv क्लासिक '' list.
roseanne Cherrie Barr ( born November 3, 1952 ) is an American actress, comedienne, writer, टेलीविज़न निर्माता, निदेशक, और 2012 अध्यक्षीय nominee of the California -आधारd सलाम और Freedom Party.
Barr began उसके career in stand-up कॉमेडी at clubs पहले gaining कीर्ति for her role in the sitcom roseanne.
The दिखाएँ was a hit and lasted nine seasons, from 1988 to 1997.
She जीती both an Emmy and a Golden ग्लोब पुरस्कार for Best अभिनेत्री for her work on the show.
barr had crafted a `` fierce working-class domestic goddess '' persona in the eight years preceding her sitcom और wanted to do a realistic show परिचय a strong mother who थी not a शिकार of patriarchal भोगवाद.
The granddaughter of immigrants from यूरोपीय and Russia, barr was the oldest of चार children in a working-class यहूदी Salt Lake City family ; वो थी भी active in the lds Church.
In 1974, she married Bill Pentland, with जिसको she had three children, before divorcing in 1990 और marrying हास्य tom अर्नाल्ड लिये four सालो.
विवाद arose when she sang `` The star-spangled ध्वज `` off-key at a 1990 nationally aired baseball खेल, followed by grabbing her crotch और spitting.
बाद her sitcom ended, she launched उसके own talk show, the Roseanne Show, जिससे aired from 1998 to 2000.
in 2005, she लौटे to stand-up कॉमेडी with a संसार tour.
in 2011, she स्ट्रक्चर in an unscripted TV show, Roseanne 's nuts, that lasted from जुलाई to सितंबर of that साल, about her life on a Hawaiian farm.
In जल्दी 2012, barr announced her उम्मीदवारी for the Presidential nomination of the ग्रीन Party.
Barr lost the nomination to jill Stein.
वो then sought the अध्यक्षीय nomination of the Peace and Freedom पार्टी, which वो won on अगस्त 4, 2012.
barr received 61,971 votes in the general election, placing sixth overall.
Francesco albani 's 17th century बपतिस्मा of मसीह is a typical चित्रण साथ the आसमान opening और the Holy Spirit descending as a dove.
the बपतिस्मा of Jesus marks the beginning of उसके पब्लिक ministry.
इस event is recorded in the canonical gospels of मैथ्यू, Mark और Luke.
John 's इन्जील does not describe यीशु ' baptism, but John the Baptist करता testify of the अन्य बाते in.
In the नई Testament, John the बैपटिस्ट preached the baptism of repentance for the remission of पापों ( ), and declared himself a forerunner of he that would baptize `` with the पावन Ghost और with fire '' ( ).
in so doing he was तैयारी the way लिये यीशु.
Jesus आए to the Jordan नदी जहाँ he was baptized by जॉन.
the baptismal scene includes the heavens खोलने, a dove-like descent of the पावन Spirit, और a आवाज़ from स्वर्ग saying, `` इस is my beloved Son, in जिसको I am खूब pleased. ''
Most modern scholars दृश्य the fact that Jesus was baptized by जॉन as an historical event to which a ऊँची degree of certainty can be आबंटित.
Along with the crucifixion of Jesus most scholars दृश्य it as एक of the दो historically निश्चित तथ्य about him, and often use it as the starting points for the study of the historical Jesus.
the baptism is one of the five प्रमुख milestones in the gospel कथा of the जीवन of Jesus, the others being the Transfiguration, crucifixion, क़यामत, and आरोहण.
सबसे ईसाई denominations दृश्य the baptism of Jesus as an महत्वपूर्ण event और a आधार लिये the ईसाई rite of बपतिस्मा ( see also ).
In Eastern Christianity, Jesus ' baptism is commemorated on 6 January, the feast of epiphany.
in the Roman कैथोलिक Church, the anglican Communion, the लूथरन चर्च and some other Western denominations, it is recalled on a दिन within the following week, the feast of the बपतिस्मा of the Lord.
In रोमन catholicism, the बपतिस्मा of यीशु is one of the चमकदार Mysteries sometimes added to the rosary.
it is a trinitarian feast in the Eastern Orthodox Churches.
Methylcobalamin ( shown ) is a रूप of विटामिन b12.
physically it resembles the अन्य forms of विटामिन B12, occurring as dark red crystals कि freely रूप cherry-colored पारदर्शी समाधान in water.
Vitamin b12, vitamin B12 or vitamin b-12, also called cobalamin, is a water-soluble विटामिन साथ a key भूमिका in the normal कामकाज of the brain and बेचैन system, and लिये the formation of रक्त.
it is one of the आठ b विटामिन.
it is सामान्यतः involved in the metabolism of प्रत्येक कोशिका of the human body, विशेषकर affecting डीएनए संश्लेषण and regulation, but also fatty एसिड synthesis and उर्जा production.
Neither fungi, plants, nor पशु are सक्षम of producing vitamin B12.
Only bacteria और आर्किया have the enzymes required for its संश्लेषण, हालांकि अनेक भोजन हैं a प्राकृतिक source of b12 because of bacterial symbiosis.
The vitamin is the largest and most structurally complicated विटामिन and can be produced industrially only through bacterial fermentation-synthesis.
Vitamin B12 consists of a class of chemically सम्बन्धित compounds ( vitamers ), all of जिससे have vitamin कार्यकलाप.
It contains the biochemically rare तत्व cobalt.
जैवसंश्लेषण of the मौलिक structure of the vitamin is accomplished only by bacteria ( which प्रायः produce hydroxocobalamin ), but परिवर्तन between अलग forms of the vitamin can be संपन्नता in the human body.
A आम semi-synthetic form of the विटामिन, cyanocobalamin, does not occur in प्रकृति, लकिन is उत्पादित इससे बैक्टीरियल hydroxocobalamin and तब प्रयुक्त in many pharmaceuticals and supplements, और as a food additive, because of इसके stability और lower production cost.
in the देह it is converted to the human physiological forms methylcobalamin और adenosylcobalamin, leaving behind the cyanide, albeit in minimal concentration.
अधिक recently, hydroxocobalamin, methylcobalamin, and adenosylcobalamin can be found in more expensive pharmacological products and खाना supplements.
the अतिरिक्त utility of these is currently debated.
विटामिन B12 was discovered from इसके relationship to the बीमारी घातक रक्ताल्पता, जिससे is an असंक्राम्य बीमारी in which parietal cells of the stomach responsible for secreting intrinsic factor हैं destroyed.
Intrinsic factor is crucial लिये the normal अवशोषण of b12, so a कमी of intrinsic factor, as देखी in घातक रक्ताल्पता, कल्याणकारी a vitamin B12 deficiency.
अनेक अन्य subtler kinds of vitamin b12 deficiency और उनके biochemical effects have चूंकि been elucidated.
Full Metal जैकेट is a 1987 युद्ध फिल्मी produced, directed और co-written by Stanley Kubrick.
It is an अनुकूलन of Gustav hasford 's 1979 अनोखा The Short-Timers and सितारों मैथ्यू Modine, Vincent D'Onofrio, R. Lee Ermey, arliss Howard, and Adam Baldwin.
the फिल्मी follows a platoon of U.S. Marines through their प्रशिक्षण and the experiences of two of the platoon 's marines in the Tet Offensive दौरान the Vietnam युद्ध.
The film 's title refers to the full मेटल जैकेट bullet प्रयुक्त by infantry riflemen.
The फिल्मी प्राप्त critical acclaim.
It received an Academy Award नामांकन लिये Best Adapted Screenplay for kubrick, Michael हेर और गुस्ताव Hasford.
in 2001, the अमरीकी Film Institute placed Full Metal Jacket at # 95 in उनके `` AFI 's 100 Years... 100 Thrills `` poll.
tmz is a celebrity news जालस्थल that debuted on November 8, 2005.
it थी a सहयोग between एओएल और telepictures Productions, a division of Warner Bros., until Time Warner divested AOL in 2009.
However, it remained affiliated with AOL न्यूज and has the AOL News logo affixed in the अपर सही कोने.
the नाम TMZ stands लिये the ऐतिहासिक `` studio मण्डल `` or 30-mile zone radius from the intersection of वेस्ट Beverly boulevard and North La Cienega Boulevard in लॉस एंजिल्स.
tmz 's managing एडिटर is घनघोर Levin, a lawyer-turned-journalist who was previously a विधिक expert लिये the लॉस एंजिल्स television स्टेशन KCBS-TV.
the site दावा कि it करता नहीं pay for stories or interviews ; however, Levin has admitted कि TMZ does `` sometimes अदा sources for leads on stories ''.
levin has stated that `` everything is researched and vetted for accuracy. ''
a साथी TV श्रेणी, tmz on TV, debuted on सितंबर 10, 2007.
Scream 3 is a 2000 अमरीकी slasher film created by Kevin Williamson, directed by Wes Craven and लिखा by ehren Kruger, अभिनीत Neve कैम्पबेल, Courteney Cox Arquette और दाउद arquette.
it थी released on February 4, 2000 as the third installment in the Scream फिल्मी series.
The कार्यक्रम of the स्टोरी are नियत तीन years after those of चीख 2 और follows sidney Prescott ( Campbell ) who has gone into self-imposed isolation following the कार्यक्रम of the previous two films लकिन is drawn to Hollywood after a new Ghostface begins killing the डाल of the film within a film `` Stab 3 ''.
चीख 3 combines the violence of the slasher विधा साथ comedy और `` whodunit `` रहस्य while satirizing the cliché of film trilogies.
Unlike the previous चीख films, there थी an increased emphasis on comedic elements and the violence and हॉरर was घटाया in जवाब to increased पब्लिक scrutiny about violence in media following the columbine ऊँची School massacre.
The film थी the concluding chapter of the चीख series जबतक it was revived with a sequel, Scream 4, in 2011.
Williamson provided a five-page रूपरेखा for two sequels to चीख when auctioning his असली script, hoping to entice bidders with the potential of buying a franchise.
Williamson 's प्रतिज्ञाओं to अन्य projects meant he थी unable to develop a पूरा स्क्रिप्ट for चीख 3 and writing duties were undertaken by Ehren क्रूगर जो discarded much of Williamson 's टीप.
Craven और मार्को Beltrami returned to सीधा और स्कोर the फिल्मी respectively as they था with the previous two श्रेणी entries.
उत्पादन थी troubled साथ script rewrites, with pages sometimes तभी ready on the day of filming, और scheduling कठिनाइयों with the main डाल.
Scream 3 performed both financially and critically बदतर than its preceding films, कमाई over $ 161 million and with अनेक critics claiming that the film had become कया चीख originally `` spoofed ``.
despite ऋणात्मक criticism the film did receive तारीफ़ with reviewers calling it the perfect end to the चीख trilogy.
As of 2012, the film is currently the number 3 highest-grossing slasher-film in उत्तर America, following चीख at number 1 and चीख 2 at number 2.
The film 's soundtrack was well-received, बिता fourteen सप्ताह on the Billboard 200 और reaching a ऊँची of # 32.
Shoulder impingement सिंड्रोम, also पुकारा painful arc सिंड्रोम, supraspinatus syndrome, तैराक 's shoulder, and thrower 's कंधे, is a clinical सिंड्रोम which occurs when the tendons of the rotator कफ muscles become irritated and inflamed as वे pass through the subacromial स्पेस, the passage beneath the acromion.
इस can result in pain, weakness और loss of movement at the shoulder.
JLA थी a मासिक कॉमिक book प्रकाशित by dc कॉमिक्स from January 1997 to April 2006 featuring the Justice लीग.
the colonial history of the United States covers the history of European settlements इससे the प्रारंभ of colonization of America until their incorporation into the संयुक्त States.
in the लेट 16th century, England, France, स्पेन and the नीदरलैंड्स शुभारम्भ प्रमुख colonization कार्यक्रम in eastern North America.
Small early attempts—such as the अंग्रेज़ी खोया Colony of Roanoke —often disappeared ; everywhere the मौत rate of the पहला arrivals was बहुत high.
Nevertheless successful colonies यहूद established.
यूरोपीय settlers आए from a variety of सोशल and religious समूह.
No aristocrats settled permanently, but a क्रमांक of adventurers, soldiers, किसानो, and tradesmen arrived.
Diversity थी an अमरीकी characteristic as the Dutch of नई netherland, the Swedes and finns of New Sweden, the अंग्रेज़ी Quakers of पेन्सिलवेनिया, the English puritans of New England, the English settlers of jamestown, और the `` worthy poor '' of Georgia, आए to the new महाद्वीप and built colonies with distinctive social, religious, राजनैतिक और economic styles.
Occasionally one colony took control of another ( during wars between उनके यूरोपीय parents ).
Only in Nova स्कोटिया ( now भाग of Canada ) did the conquerors expel the पिछला colonists.
Instead वे all lived पक्ष by पक्ष in peace.
There were no major civil wars among the 13 colonies, and the दो chief हथियारबंद rebellions ( in वर्जिनिया in 1676 and in नई York in 1689–91 ) were short-lived असफलताओं.
युद्धों between the फ्रेंच and the British—the French and Indian Wars and Father rale 's युद्ध —were तूल, and शामिल french-support for Wabanaki Confederacy attacks on the frontiers.
by 1760 France was defeated and the अंग्रेजों seized its colonies.
the four पृथक regions were : New इंग्लैण्ड, the मध्य Colonies, the Chesapeake खाड़ी Colonies ( अपर South ) और the निम्नतर दक्षिण.
Some historians add a पांचवां region, the frontier, which was never separately व्यवस्थित.
by the समय यूरोपीय settlers arrived around 1600–1650, the बहुमत of the Native Americans जीना in the पूर्वी संयुक्त States था been decimated by new रोगों, introduced to them decades before by explorers and sailors.
देखिए timeline of Colonial America लिये सूची of ऐतिहासिक कार्यक्रम.
ग्लोरिया लौरा Vanderbilt ( born फ़रवरी 20, 1924 ) is an अमरीकी कलाकार, लेखक, actress, heiress, and socialite most noted as an जल्दी developer of designer blue jeans.
She is a member of the prominent वेंडरबिल्ट family of नई York और the mother of CNN 's Anderson Cooper.
यूनानियों ( Romanization of Greek| ), officially the Hellenic Republic ( ' ), is a देश in southeast Europe.
according to the 2011 census, Greece 's जनसांख्यिकी is around 11 लाख.
Athens is the nation 's capital and largest नगर, इसके urban area also including Piraeus.
Greece is strategically located at the क्रॉसरोड्स of Europe, एशिया, the Middle East, and अफ़्रीकी, and has जमीन सीमायें with Albania, the Republic of मकदूनिया and Bulgaria to the north, and तुर्कों to the पूर्वोत्तर.
The Aegean Sea lies to the east of mainland यूनानियों, the आयोनियन Sea to the west, और the Mediterranean समुद्र to the south.
Greece has the 11th longest coastline in the world at in length, featuring a vast क्रमांक of आइलैंड्स ( approximately 1,400, of which 227 हैं inhabited ), including Crete, the dodecanese, the cyclades, और the Ionian Islands among others.
Eighty प्रतिशत of यूनानियों consists of mountains, of जिससे माउंट ओलम्पस is the उच्चतम at.
आधुनिक Greece traces its roots to the सभ्यता of Ancient यूनानियों, generally considered the cradle of Western civilization.
as such, it is the जन्मस्थान of democracy, Western philosophy, the ओलम्पिक Games, पश्चिमी literature और historiography, राजनैतिक विज्ञान, major scientific and mathematical principles, और पश्चिमी नाटक, सहित both त्रासदी और कॉमेडी.
इस legacy is partly reflected in the सत्रह UNESCO World विरासत Sites located in यूनानियों, रैंकिंग it 7th in Europe और 13th in the world.
the modern Greek राज्य थी established in 1830, following the Greek युद्ध of स्वतंत्रता.
Greece is a founding member of the United Nations, has महरूम a member of what is now the यूरोपीय Union since 1981 ( और the eurozone since 2001 ), और has been a member of नाटो चूंकि 1952.
Greece is a developed country साथ an उन्नत, high-income अर्थव्यवस्था and बहुत high standards of living, including the संसार 's 21st highest quality of life as of 2010.
यूनानियों 's economy is also the largest in the Balkans, जहाँ यूनानियों is an important क्षेत्रीय investor.
A प्रधान meridian is a मध्याह्न, i.e. a line of देशांतर, at जिससे देशांतर is पारिभाषित to be 0°.
A prime मध्याह्न and its विपरीत in a 360°-system, the 180th meridian ( at 180° longitude ), form a great वृत्त.
This ग्रेट circle divides the गोला, e.g. the धरती, into दो hemispheres.
if एक uses directions of East और West इससे a defined प्रधान meridian, तब they can be called पूर्वी Hemisphere and Western गोलार्ध.
Gerardus मर्केटर in his एटलस Cosmographicae ( 1595 ) uses a प्रधान meridian somewhere close to 25°W, passing just to the west of सांता मरिया Island in the Atlantic.
उसके 180th meridian रनों along the Strait of anián ( Bering Strait )
A प्रधान meridian is ultimately मनमानी, unlike an equator, जिससे is determined by the अक्ष of rotation—and various प्रथाओं have been used or advocated in different regions and throughout इतिहास.
Minka dumont केली ( born Minka Dumont Dufay ; जून 24, 1980 ) is an अमरीकी actress.
She is शायद बेहतरीन ज्ञात for उसके भूमिकाएँ in Charlie 's Angels, शुक्रवार रात्रि Lights, और the Roommate.
R.O.B. ( Robotic ऑपरेटिंग दोस्त ), released in जापानी as the, is an accessory for the Nintendo Entertainment प्रणाली ( NES ).
it थी released in July 1985 in Japan and बाद that year in उत्तर अमेरिका.
It had a छोटी product lifespan, with support लिये only two खेल which comprised the `` रोबोट श्रेणी '' ; gyromite और stack-up.
R.O.B. was released with the intention of portraying the Nintendo Entertainment System as कुछ अनोखा in अनुक्रम to alleviate खुदरा fears following the वीडियो game crash of 1983.
R.O.B. was available in the Deluxe Set, a विन्यास for the कंसोल that शामिल, among other things, r.o.b. and gyromite.
Stack-Up was खरीदा separately and शामिल its अपना शारीरिक game pieces.
The Walking Liberty हाफ डालर थी a चांदी 50-cent piece or हाफ dollar coin issued by the United States Mint इससे 1916 to 1947 ; it थी designed by Adolph A. Weinman.
In 1915, the new Mint निदेशक, रॉबर्ट W. Woolley, came to believe that he थी not only allowed but जरूरी by law to बदलें सिक्का डिजाइन that had been in use for 25 years.
He therefore began the process of replacing the नाई coinage : dimes, quarters and half डॉलर, all bearing similar designs by long-time Mint Engraver Charles E. Barber, और पहला struck in 1892.
Woolley had the Commission of Fine Arts conduct a प्रतियोगिता, as a परिणाम of which weinman was चयनित to design the dime और हाफ डालर.
Weinman 's डिज़ाइन of Liberty striding towards the सूर्य for the half डालर proved मुश्किल to perfect, और Treasury सचिव विलियम G. McAdoo, whose विभाग included the Mint, considered having नाई create his own design.
Mint officials यहूद कामयाब in getting weinman 's design into production, हालांकि it never struck बहुत well, which may have been a factor in its बदलना by the फ्रैंकलिन half dollar beginning in 1948.
nevertheless, आर्ट इतिहासकार Cornelius Vermeule considered the टुकड़ा to be among the सबसे beautiful us coins.
Since 1986, a परिवर्धन of Weinman 's obverse design has महरूम used लिये the American चांदी Eagle.
the Toyota 4runner is a mid-size खेल utility vehicle ( SUV ) उत्पादित by the Japanese manufacturer Toyota and बेची throughout the world इससे 1984 to present.
In Japan it was ज्ञात as the टोयोटा Hilux लहरे.
The original 4Runner थी a compact SUV और little more than a Toyota pickup ट्रक with a fiberglass shell over the bed, लकिन the model has since undergone significant स्वतंत्र development into a क्रॉस between a compact and a mid-size SUV.
All 4Runners have महरूम निर्मित at Toyota 's tahara plant in tahara, Aichi, जापानी, or at hino मोटर्स ' Hamura, Japan संयंत्र, और in Brazil.
इसके mid-size crossover SUV counterpart is the टोयोटा highlander.
This article deals with medicine as practiced by trained पेशेवर from प्राचीन टाइम्स to the उपस्थित.
The प्राचीन Egyptians had a system of आयुर्विज्ञान that थी बहुत advanced for इसके समय और बहकावे बाद चिकित्सा traditions.
the Egyptians and Babylonians both introduced the अवधारणाओं of diagnosis, prognosis, और medical परिक्षा.
the Greeks went भी further, और advanced as well चिकित्सा आचार.
The hippocratic Oath, स्टिल taken by doctors आज, was written in Greece in the 5th सदी BCE.
In the medieval era, surgical practices inherited from the ancient मास्टर्स were improved and then systematized in rogerius 's The Practice of Surgery.
Universities began व्यवस्थित training of physicians around the years 1220 in Italy.
दौरान the पुनर्जागरण, understanding of anatomy improved, and the microscope was invented.
the germ theory of disease in the 19th सदी led to cures for many संक्रामक रोगों.
सैन्य doctors advanced the methods of trauma उपचार and सर्जरी.
Public health उपायों यहूद developed especially in the 19th century as the rapid growth of cities जरूरी व्यवस्थित sanitary उपायों.
उन्नत शोध centers खोली in the early 20th century, often कनेक्ट साथ major अस्पताल.
the mid-20th century was characterized by new biological treatments, such as एंटीबायोटिक.
ये advancements, along with developments in रसायन, genetics, और lab technology ( such as the x-ray ) led to आधुनिक आयुर्विज्ञान.
Medicine was heavily professionalized in the 20th century, and new careers opened to women as नर्स ( इससे the 1870s ) and as physicians ( विशेषकर after 1970 ).
the 21st century is characterized by very उन्नत research involving numerous फ़ील्ड of विज्ञान.
The hippocratic कॉर्पस, is a संग्रहण of early medical works from प्राचीन Greece strongly associated with the प्राचीन Greek physician Hippocrates and his शिक्षाओं.
Potassium is a chemical तत्व साथ प्रतीक K ( इससे neo-latin kalium ) and atomic number 19.
Elemental potassium is a नरम silvery-white क्षारीय metal कि oxidizes rapidly in air and is very reactive साथ जल, generating sufficient heat to ignite the hydrogen emitted in the reaction and burning with a lilac ज्वाला.
Because पोटैशियम और sodium are chemically very समान, उनके salts यहूद नहीं at पहला differentiated.
the अस्तित्व of multiple elements in their salts was suspected from 1702, and this was proven in 1807 when potassium and सोडियम were individually पृथक इससे अलग salts by electrolysis.
Potassium in nature occurs तभी in ionic salts.
As ऐसे, it is मिला dissolved in seawater ( जिससे is 0.04 % potassium by weight ), and is भाग of अनेक minerals.
Most industrial chemical applications of potassium employ the अपेक्षाकृत high घुलनशीलता in जल of potassium compounds, ऐसे as potassium soaps.
पोटैशियम metal रै तभी a few special अनुप्रयोग, being replaced in सबसे chemical reactions साथ sodium मेटल.
पोटैशियम ions are necessary for the फलन of सब living cells.
Potassium ion diffusion is a key यांत्रिकी in तंत्रिका transmission, and potassium depletion in पशु, including humans, परिणाम in various cardiac डिस्फंक्शन.
पोटैशियम accumulates in संयंत्र cells, और thus fresh fruits and vegetables are a शुभ dietary source of it.
Conversely, सबसे पौधे except विशेषज्ञ halophytes हैं असहिष्णु of नमक, and सोडियम is उपस्थित in उन्हें तभी in low concentration.
This resulted in पोटैशियम पहला होने isolated from potash, the ashes of plants, giving the element its नाम.
For the same कारण, भारी crop production rapidly depletes soils of पोटैशियम, and agricultural fertilizers consume 95 % of global पोटैशियम chemical production.
The Singapore dollar or डालर ( चिह्न : $ ; code : sgd ) is the आधिकारिक currency of सिंगापुर.
It is normally abbreviated with the डालर sign $, or alternatively S $ to distinguish it इससे other डालर -denominated मुद्राएँ.
It is divided into 100 cents.
The Monetary Authority of सिंगापुर और the Brunei करेंसी और Monetary फलक स्टिल maintain the historic exchangeability of their दो मुद्राएँ, the Singaporean डालर and the Brunei डालर, क्रमशः.
the dollar is स्वीकृत as `` प्रथागत tender '' in Brunei according to the Currency Interchangeability अनुबंध.
Likewise, the Brunei डालर is customarily स्वीकृत in सिंगापुर
James सैमुएल कोलमैन ( may 12, 1926 – March 25, 1995 ) was an अमरीकी समाजशास्त्री, theorist and empirical researcher, based chiefly at the विश्वविद्यालयों of Chicago.
He थी निर्वाचित president of the अमरीकी Sociological संघ.
Coleman studied the समाजशास्त्र of education, public policy, and थी one of the earliest उपयोक्ता of the term `` social पूंजी ``.
उसके Foundations of Social Theory influenced sociological theory.
उसके The Adolescent समाज ( 1961 ) and `` Coleman Report '' ( समता of Educational अवसर, 1966 ) यहूद दो of the most heavily cited किताबे in educational sociology.
The landmark Coleman Report helped रूपांतरण educational theory, reshape नेशनल education नीतियों, और influenced पब्लिक and scholarly opinion regarding the भूमिका of schooling in determining समता and उत्पादकता in the संयुक्त States.
Superman ( from DC comics ) थी the पहला superhero created, art by Jim Lee.
a superhero ( sometimes rendered super-hero or super नायिका ) is a type of भण्डार character possessing `` extraordinary or superhuman शक्तियां '' and dedicated to protecting the पब्लिक.
Since the डेब्यू of the prototypical superhero Superman in 1938, कहानियां of superheroes—ranging इससे ब्रैड episodic adventures to continuing years-long sagas—have वर्चस्व अमरीकी comic किताबे and crossed over into other मीडिया.
the शब्द itself dates to at least 1917.
a मादा superhero is sometimes पुकारा a superheroine ( also rendered super-heroine or सुपर नायिका ).
`` सुपर HEROES '' is a trademark co-owned by dc Comics and Marvel कॉमिक्स.
By सबसे definitions, characters do not सख्ती require actual superhuman powers to be deemed superheroes, although terms such as costumed crime fighters or नकाबपोश vigilantes हैं sometimes प्रयुक्त to refer to those ऐसे as Batman and ग्रीन Arrow बगैर such powers who share other common superhero traits.
Such characters were generally referred to as `` mystery men '' in the so-called सुनहरी Age of Comic किताबे to फर्क them from वर्ण with super-powers.
सामान्यतः, superheroes उपयोग their शक्तियां to काउंटर day-to-day crime while also combating खतरे against मानवता by supervillains, उनके दण्ड counterparts.
प्रायः, एक of these supervillains will be the सुपरहीरो 's archenemy.
as well, some longrunning superheroes, ऐसे as सुपरमैन, Batman, spider-man and आयरन Man प्रत्येक रै a rogues gallery of दुश्मनों.
As well, superheroes sometimes होगा कॉम्बैट ऐसे irregular threats as aliens, magical/ fantasy entities, American युद्ध enemies ऐसे as nazism or साम्यवादी, और godlike or demonic creatures.
the following is a ऐतिहासिक list of actors and प्राथमिक अक्षर roles which appear on the अमरीकी soap ओपेरा एक जीवन to Live.
The shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American drama film written और directed by फ़्रैंक Darabont and अभिनीत Tim Robbins और मॉर्गन Freeman.
Adapted from the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption, the फिल्मी tells the story of Andy Dufresne, a बैंकर जो spends nearly दो दशकों in shawshank State Prison for the murder of उसके wife और उसके lover despite his दावा of innocence.
दौरान his समय at the थाना, he befriends a fellow inmate, Ellis Boyd `` Red '' Redding, and पाता himself protected by the guards बाद the warden begins using him in his धन laundering operation.
despite a lukewarm box दफ्तर reception कि barely recouped its budget, the फिल्मी प्राप्त अनुकूल reviews from critics, multiple award nominations, and has since enjoyed a remarkable life on cable television, VHS, DVD, and Blu-ray.
It was शामिल in the American Film Institute 's 100 Years... 100 Movies 10th Anniversary Edition.
IT प्रबन्धन is the discipline whereby all of the technology resources of a कड़ हैं प्रबंधित in accordance with इसके needs और priorities.
ये resources may include ठोस investments like कंप्यूटर hardware, software, data, networks and आंकड़ा केन्द्र सुविधाएं, as well as the staffs who हैं hired to maintain them.
Managing this responsibility within a company entails many of the basic management functions, जैसे budgeting, staffing, और organizing and controlling, साथ साथ other aspects कि are अद्वितीय to technology, like बदलें management, software डिज़ाइन, संजाल planning, tech support etc.
the Penitentiary of New मैक्सिको Prison Riot, जिससे took place on February 2 and 3, 1980, in the state 's maximum सुरक्षा prison south of Santa fe, थी एक of the most violent थाना riots in the इतिहास of the अमरीकी correctional प्रणाली : 33 inmates died और अधिक than 200 inmates यहूद treated लिये चोटों.
None of the 12 अधिकारियों लिया बंधक यहूद मारे, but सात were treated for injuries caused by beatings and rapes.
This was the तीसरा major riot at the NM State Penitentiary, the first occurring on 19 July 1922 and the दूसरी on 15 June 1953.
Author रोजर Morris suggests the मौत टोल may have महरूम higher, as a number of लाशें यहूद incinerated or dismembered during the course of the mayhem.
`` रेड Cardinal '' redirects here.
For the संयंत्र Erythrina herbacea, see Coral Bean.
the Northern कार्डिनल ( Cardinalis cardinalis ) is a North अमरीकी bird in the genus Cardinalis ; it is भी known colloquially as the redbird or common cardinal.
it can be found in southern Canada, through the eastern संयुक्त राज्य इससे Maine to Texas और दक्षिण through Mexico.
It is मिला in वुडलैंड्स, gardens, shrublands, and swamps.
the Northern Cardinal is a mid-sized songbird with a body length of 21 centimeters ( 8.3 inches ).
it रै a distinctive crest on the सिर and a मुखौटा on the face जिससे is ब्लैक in the male and धूसर in the female.
The पुरूष is a vibrant रेड, while the female is a dull red-brown shade.
the उत्तरी Cardinal is mainly granivorous, but also फ़ीड्स on कीट and फल.
The पुरूष behaves territorially, marking out उसके territory साथ सोंग.
During प्रेमालाप, the male फ़ीड्स seed to the female beak-to-beak.
A clutch of three to four eggs is रखी, and दो to four clutches हैं produced each year.
It थी once prized as a pet, but इसके sale as cage पक्षियों is अभी बैन in the United राज्य by the migratory Bird Treaty अधिनियम of 1918.
सतह runoff, also पुकारा nonpoint सोर्स pollution, from a फार्म फ़ील्ड in Iowa during a rain तूफ़ान.
Topsoil as well as farm fertilizers और other संभावित pollutants चलाएं off unprotected फार्म फ़ील्ड when भारी rains occur.
Topsoil is the upper, outermost layer of soil, प्रायः the शीर्ष to.
It रै the उच्चतम विशेषज्ञता of सशुल्क पदार्थ and microorganisms and is where most of the Earth 's biological मृदा कार्यकलाप occurs.
musical cryptogram : `` Aschbeg '' नियत in Schoenberg 's sechs kleine Klavierstücke, op. 19, no. 1, m. 5.
नोट that the notes do not come in spelling order लकिन हैं सब adjacent ( not अलग by अन्य टीप ).
Sechs kleine Klavierstücke, op. 19 ( or छह छोटी Piano Pieces ) is a set of टुकड़े for सोलो piano लिखा by the Austrian composer Arnold Schoenberg, published in 1913.
मैक्एफ़ी, inc. ( ) is an अमरीकी global computer security software company headquartered in Santa Clara, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, and the world 's largest dedicated security प्रौद्योगिकी company.
as of February 28, 2011, मैक्एफ़ी is a wholly स्वामित्व subsidiary of Intel.
मैक्एफ़ी 's प्रतिस्पर्धी in the एंटीवायरस industry हैं Avira, BitDefender, bullguard, F-Secure, frisk, Kaspersky, Symantec, and ट्रेंड सूक्ष्म to नाम a few.
संत Rita of cascia ( Born margherita lotti 1381 - May 22, 1457 ) was an इतालवी Augustinian नन, widow और saint venerated in the रोमन Catholic Church.
Rita was शादीशुदा at an जल्दी आयु.
the marriage lasted for 18 सालो, दौरान which she is remembered लिये her Christian values as a model wife and mother जो made प्रयत्न to बदलें her husband इससे his गाली behavior.
upon the murder of her husband by another feuding family, she sought to dissuade her sons from बदला.
वो subsequently joined an Augustinian जातियाँ of religious sisters, जहाँ वो was ज्ञात for practicing mortification of the flesh, साथ साथ the apparent efficacy of उसके prayers.
St. Rita is venerated due to various miracles attributed to her intercession, और is प्रायः portrayed साथ a bleeding घाव on उसके माथे, which the Roman कैथोलिक Church दावा to have been a आंशिक stigmata.
the Roman Catholic Church, अंतर्गत the pontificate of Pope leo XIII officially canonized Rita on May 24, 1900, जबकि her feast दिन is celebrated प्रत्येक may 22.
in अनेक pious Catholic देशों, रीता is known to be a patroness लिये abused wives and शोक women.
North अमेरिका is a continent wholly भीतर the उत्तरी Hemisphere and लगभग wholly भीतर the Western गोलार्ध.
It is also considered a उत्तरी subcontinent of the americas.
It is bordered to the north by the आर्कटिक Ocean, to the ईस्ट by the अटलांटिक Ocean, to the west and south by the Pacific Ocean, and to the southeast by South America और the caribbean समुद्र.
North अमेरिका covers an area of about 24,709,000 वर्गाकार किलोमीटर ( 9,540,000 square मील ), परिचय 4.8 % of the ग्रह 's सतह or about 16.5 % of its जमीन area.
As of July 2008, its जनसांख्यिकी थी estimated at nearly 529 लाख लोगों across 23 independent states, representing about 7.5 % of the human population.
उत्तर America is the third-largest continent in area, following Asia और Africa, और the fourth in population after एशिया, Africa, and यूरोपीय.
the पहला people to सजीव in उत्तर America यहूद Paleoindians who began to arrive during the पिछला glacial period by crossing the बेरिंग जमीन bridge.
They differentiated into a number of diverse cultures and समुदायों across the continent.
the largest and सबसे advanced Pre-Columbian सभ्यताओं in North America were the aztecs in what is अभी Mexico and the Mayans in Central America.
यूरोपीय colonists began to arrive starting in the 16th and 17th सदियां, wiping आउट विशाल संख्याएँ of the native populations और beginning an era of European दबदबा.
Jermaine Lamarr Cole ( born January 28, 1985 ), better known by his स्टेज name J. Cole, is an American hip-hop रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार और record निर्माता from fayetteville, North कैरोलिना.
In 2009, he became the पहला कलाकार to sign to Jay-Z 's आरओसी स्वदेश लेबल.
His long-awaited debut एल्बम, entitled Cole World : the Sideline स्टोरी, was released on सितंबर 27, 2011.
The एल्बम debuted at number एक on the US Billboard 200, शीर्ष R & B Albums and शीर्ष Rap एल्बम चार्ट, selling more than 218,000 in its पहला week.
He received a nomination लिये Best New कलाकार at the 54th ग्रैमी पुरस्कार.
The दो प्रमुख वर्ण of the series, Ratchet ( सही ) और Clank ( left ).
Ratchet & Clank is a श्रेणी of मंच वीडियो खेल.
The मताधिकार थी created और developed by Insomniac खेल and प्रकाशित by सोनी कंप्यूटर Entertainment for अनेक अलग PlayStation consoles, such as PlayStation 2 and PlayStation 3 with the exclusion of आकार Matters और Secret एजेंट Clank, जिससे यहूद विकसित by ऊँची Impact Games लिये the PlayStation Portable.
प्रत्येक game in the series has महरूम released for every console, as the IP is owned by सोनी Computer entertainment.
An एनिमेटेड विशेषता film adaptation उत्पादित by Rainmaker Entertainment और Blockade Entertainment is अनुसूचित for a theatrical release sometime in 2015.
the games लो place in a science fiction setting and follow the adventures of Ratchet ( an animalistic human-like character ज्ञात as a lombax, जो is a मैकेनिक ) और clank ( a diminutive, sentient robot ) as they सफर through the ब्रह्मांड, saving it from evil शक्तियां on a regular basis.
The श्रेणी is noted for the inclusion of अनेक exotic and अद्वितीय, over the top weapons और डिवाइस, a concept that insomniac Games also expanded into their अन्य खेल.
a will or testament is a विधिक declaration by जिससे a व्यक्ति, the testator, names एक or more व्यक्तियों to manage his/her एस्टेट and provides लिये the transfer of his property at मौत.
लिये the devolution of property not disposed of by होगा, see inheritance and intestacy.
in the strictest sense, a `` will '' रै historically महरूम limited to रियल प्रॉपर्टी while `` testament '' applies only to dispositions of निजी property ( यूँ giving वृद्धि to the popular शीर्षक of the दस्तावेज़ as `` पिछला होगा और Testament '' ), हालांकि this distinction is seldom observed today.
A होगा may also बनाएँ a testamentary trust कि is effective only after the death of the testator.
The 19.9 mw Gemasolar solar संयंत्र in Spain features 15 hours of storage and can supply power 24 hours a day.
सौर energy, radiant light और heat इससे the सूर्य, has been harnessed by इंसानो since ancient times using a दायरा of ever-evolving technologies.
सौर उर्जा technologies include सौर हीटिंग, solar photovoltaics, सौर thermal विद्युत, solar वास्तुकला और artificial photosynthesis, which can make considerable contributions to solving some of the सबसे urgent energy problems the world now चेहरों.
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive सौर or क्रियाशील solar depending on the way they capture, convert और वितरित सौर energy.
Active सौर तकनीकों शामिल the use of photovoltaic panels और solar thermal collectors to harness the उर्जा.
passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the सूर्य, selecting materials with अनुकूल थर्मल द्रव्यमान or light dispersing properties, and designing spaces कि naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the International Energy Agency said कि `` the विकास of affordable, inexhaustible and clean solar उर्जा technologies will have huge longer-term benefits.
It will बढ़ाएँ countries’ उर्जा security through रिलायंस on an indigenous, inexhaustible और mostly import-independent resource, बढ़ाएँ स्थिरता, reduce pollution, lower the costs of mitigating climate change, और keep fossil fuel कीमतें lower than वरना.
These लाभ are global.
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for जल्दी deployment चाहिए be माना सीखना investments ; वे जरूर be बुद्धिमानी खर्च और need to be widely shared ''.
Sir थामस More ( ; 7 February 14786 जुलाई 1535 ), known to रोमन Catholics as संत Thomas अधिक चूंकि 1935, was an English lawyer, सोशल philosopher, author, statesman, and noted Renaissance humanist.
He was an important councillor to हेनरी VIII of England और थी Lord चांसलर from October 1529 to 16 may 1532.
he was canonized by पोप पायस XI in 1935 as one of the जल्दी martyrs of the schism that अलग the गिरिजाघर of England from Rome in the 16th सदी.
In 2000, Pope John पॉल II declared उसे patron of कैथोलिक कूटनीतिज्ञों और politicians.
More थी an प्रतिद्वन्दी of the प्रोटोस्टेंट Reformation, in particular of मार्टिन Luther and William Tyndale.
However, चूंकि 1980, he is also commemorated by the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड as a reformation martyr.
अधिक coined the word `` यूटोपिया `` – a name he दिया to the आदर्श और imaginary island स्वदेश, the political system of which he वर्णित in Utopia, published in 1516.
He opposed the किंग 's विरह from the Roman Catholic Church और refused to accept him as Supreme Head of the Church of England, a शीर्षक which had been given by parliament through the Act of Supremacy of 1534.
He was imprisoned in 1534 for his refusal to लो the शपथ required by the First Succession Act, क्युकी the act disparaged papal Authority और Henry’s marriage to Catherine of Aragon.
in 1535, he was tried for देशद्रोह, convicted on perjured गवाही, and beheaded.
More भी helped to originate the phrase `` grasp at लोभी '' to औसत `` desperately trying even useless things '', in उसके Dialogue of Comfort विरूद्ध Tribulation.
Intellectuals and कूटनीतिज्ञों आरपार Europe were stunned by More 's निष्पादन.
Erasmus saluted him as एक `` whose आत्मा थी more pure than any snow, जिनकी प्रतिभाशाली थी ऐसे that England never had and never again will have इसके like ''.
There was a more controversial side to अधिक 's जीवन, क्युकी he advocated the persecution और execution of protestants who refused to recant their faith.
However, the judgement of history has been largely willing to forgive this in light of the times he जिया in and उसके martyrdom in the रोमन Catholic कारण.
Two सदियां बाद Jonathan स्विफ्ट said More थी `` the person of the greatest virtue this kingdom ever उत्पादित '', a sentiment साथ which Samuel जॉनसन सहमत.
इतिहासकार Hugh trevor-roper कहा in 1977 that अधिक थी `` the first great अंग्रेज whom we महसूस कि we जान, the most saintly of humanists, the most human of saints, the universal man of हमारी cool northern पुनर्जागरण. ''
Captain Nemo, also known as Prince Dakkar, is a fictional character invented by the फ्रेंच science fiction author Jules Verne.
nemo appears in दो of Verne 's novels, Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea ( 1870 ) and The रहस्यमय Island ( 1874 ), and makes a कैमियो appearance in Verne 's play Journey through the Impossible ( 1882 ).
Nemo, one of the most famous antiheroes in fiction, is a रहस्यमय figure.
the बेटे of an Indian Raja, he is a वैज्ञानिक genius who roams the depths of the समुद्र in उसके submarine, the नॉटिलस, which थी निर्मित on a उजाड़ island.
nemo tries to project a stern, controlled confidence, लकिन he is चलित by a thirst for vengeance and a द्वेष of imperialism ( विशेषकर the British साम्राज्य ).
He is also wracked by remorse over the deaths of उसके crew members and even by the मौतों of enemy sailors.
nemo has appeared in विभिन्न adaptations of वर्न 's novels, सहित films, जहाँ he रै been portrayed by a number of different अभिनेताओं.
he has furthermore been adopted by अन्य लेखक लिये समावेश in उनके novels, most notably in Alan Moore 's The League of Extraordinary सज्जनों and Philip जोस Farmer 's the अन्य log of phileas Fogg.
Listed नीचे are the Major लीग Baseball टीमों with the best season won-lost records in history, as determined by जीतना प्रतिशत (.700 or better ), न्यूनतम 120 खेल played.
ध्वनिक coupler modem
A modem ( modulator-demodulator ) is a device that modulates an analog carrier सिग्नल to encode digital information, और also demodulates such a carrier signal to डिकोड the transmitted information.
The goal is to produce a सिग्नल कि can be transmitted easily और decoded to reproduce the असली digital आंकड़ा.
Modems can be used over कोई अर्थात् of transmitting analog signals, from light emitting diodes to radio.
The most परिचित उदाहरण is a voice band मॉडेम कि turns the digital आंकड़ा of a निजी computer into modulated electrical signals in the voice frequency दायरा of a टेलीफोन channel.
These signals can be transmitted over telephone लाइनों and demodulated by another modem at the receiver side to recover the digital data.
Modems are generally वर्गीकृत by the amount of data वे can भेजें in a given unit of समय, usually expressed in bits per दूसरी ( bit/s, or bps ), or बाइट्स प्रति दूसरी ( B/s ).
Modems can alternatively be वर्गीकृत by their प्रतीक rate, measured in baud.
the baud unit denotes symbols प्रति दूसरी, or the number of times per second the मॉडेम भेजना a new signal.
लिये उदाहरण, the itu v.21 standard used audio आवृत्ति शिफ़्ट keying with two possible frequencies corresponding to two पृथक symbols ( or one bit प्रति प्रतीक ), to carry 300 बिट्स per दूसरी using 300 baud.
By contrast, the असली ITU V.22 मानक, which थी able to transmit and प्राप्त four पृथक प्रतीकों ( दो bits प्रति symbol ), संभाला 1,200 bit/s by sending 600 symbols प्रति दूसरी ( 600 baud ) using phase shift keying.
The Declaration of Independence is a बयान adopted by the Continental कॉंग्रेस on जुलाई 4, 1776, which announced that the तेरह American colonies, then at युद्ध साथ Great ब्रिटेन, regarded themselves as independent states, and no longer a भाग of the British Empire.
बजाय वे now formed a new nation—the संयुक्त राज्य of America.
जॉन Adams was a leader in pushing for independence, which was unanimously approved on July 2.
A कमेटी had already drafted the formal declaration, to be ready when congress voted on स्वतंत्रता.
Adams persuaded the committee to चुनें Thomas जेफरसन to compose the असली draft of the document, which कॉंग्रेस would edit to उपज the फाइनल संस्करण.
The घोषणा थी ultimately a formal explanation of why कॉंग्रेस had voted on जुलाई 2 to declare स्वतंत्रता इससे Great Britain, more than a year बाद the outbreak of the American क्रांतिकारी युद्ध.
the national birthday, the Independence दिन is मनाये on July 4, हालांकि Adams चाही जुलाई 2.
बाद ratifying the text on जुलाई 4, Congress issued the Declaration of Independence in several forms.
it थी initially published as the printed डनलप broadside कि was widely distributed और पढ़ा to the पब्लिक.
the सबसे famous version of the Declaration, a हस्ताक्षरित copy that is popularly regarded as the Declaration of स्वतंत्रता, is displayed at the नेशनल Archives in Washington, d.c.
Although the wording of the Declaration was approved on July 4, the तिथि of इसके हस्ताक्षर was August 2.
The असली July 4 United राज्य Declaration of Independence manuscript थी खोया while सब other copies have been derived from this असली document.
the स्त्रोत and निर्वचन of the Declaration have been the विषय of much scholarly inquiry.
The घोषणा justified the स्वतंत्रता of the संयुक्त राज्य by listing colonial grievances विरूद्ध King George iii, और by asserting certain natural and विधिक अधिकारों, including a right of क्रान्ति.
having served इसके असली purpose in announcing independence, the text of the Declaration was initially ignored बाद the अमरीकी क्रान्ति.
चूंकि then, it रै आइये to be considered a major statement on human rights, particularly इसके second sentence:
we hold ये सच्चाई to be self-evident, that सब मेन are created बराबर, that वे are endowed by their निर्माता with certain unalienable Rights, that among ये हैं जीवन, स्वतंत्रता और the pursuit of Happiness.
This has been पुकारा `` one of the best-known वाक्य in the English language '', containing `` the सबसे potent और consequential words in American इतिहास. ''
The passage came to represent a moral standard to जिससे the संयुक्त States should नीयत.
This view थी notably प्रचारित by Abraham lincoln, who माना the घोषणा to be the foundation of his political philosophy, and argued that the घोषणा is a statement of principles through जिससे the संयुक्त States Constitution should be interpreted.
It रै inspired कार्य लिये the rights of अधिकारहीन लोगों throughout the संसार.
The अर्थव्यवस्था of ग्रीनलैंड can be characterized as छोटी, मिश्रित and vulnerable.
The present economy consists of a बिग public सेक्टर and व्यापक foreign व्यापार, which रै resulted in an अर्थव्यवस्था with अवधि of strong विकास, considerable inflation, unemployment problems and extreme dependence on capital inflow from डेनमार्क और use of outside, मुख्यतः Danish, skilled labor.
जीडीपी per capita is similar to the औसत यूरोपीय economies but the अर्थव्यवस्था is critically निर्भर upon substantial support from the Danish government, जिससे supplies about half the revenues of the home rule government who in फेरे employ about 8,000 greenlanders out of a मजदूर फ़ोर्स of 40,156 ( Jan. 2012 ).
बेरोजगारी nonetheless remains high, साथ the rest of the economy निर्भर upon माँग for exports of shrimp और fish.
हाइड्रोजन is a chemical element with symbol h और atomic number 1.
साथ an atomic वज़न of ( लिये hydrogen-1 ), हाइड्रोजन is the lightest element and its monatomic रूप ( h1 ) is the most abundant chemical substance, constituting roughly 75 % of the ब्रह्मांड 's baryonic द्रव्यमान.
non- remnant stars हैं मुख्यतः composed of hydrogen in its प्लाज्मा राज्य.
at standard temperature और pressure, हाइड्रोजन is a colorless, गंधहीन, tasteless, non-toxic, nonmetallic, highly combustible diatomic gas with the molecular सूत्र H2.
सबसे of the hydrogen on Earth is in अणुओं such as water और सशुल्क compounds because hydrogen readily forms covalent यौगिकों साथ most non-metallic तत्व.
हाइड्रोजन plays a particularly important भूमिका in acid-base chemistry साथ अनेक reactions exchanging protons between soluble अणुओं.
in ionic compounds, it can take a negative charge ( an anion ज्ञात as a hydride और लिखा as H− ), or as a positively charged species H+.
the latter cation is लिखा as हालांकि composed of a bare प्रोटॉन, लकिन in वास्तविकता, हाइड्रोजन cations in ionic यौगिकों सदा occur as अधिक complex प्रजाति.
The सबसे common समस्थानिक of हाइड्रोजन is protium ( name rarely used, प्रतीक 1H ) with a सिंगल प्रोटॉन और no neutrons.
As the simplest अणु ज्ञात, the hydrogen अणु has been of सैद्धांतिक उपयोग.
For example, as the only न्यूट्रल atom साथ an analytic समाधान to the Schrödinger equation, the study of the energetics और bonding of the hydrogen atom निभाई a key role in the विकास of क्वांटम mechanics.
Hydrogen gas was first artificially उत्पादित in the जल्दी 16th century, via the mixing of धातुओं साथ acids.
in 1766–81, हेनरी कैवेंडिश was the first to recognize that हाइड्रोजन गैस थी a discrete पदार्थ, and that it produces जल जब burned, a property which later दिया it इसके name : in Greek, hydrogen अर्थात् `` water-former ''.
Industrial उत्पादन is मुख्यतः इससे the steam reforming of प्राकृतिक gas, और कम often from अधिक energy-intensive hydrogen production methods like the electrolysis of जल.
Most hydrogen is employed निकट इसके उत्पादन site, with the two largest उपयोग होने fossil fuel processing ( e.g., hydrocracking ) and अमोनिया उत्पादन, ज़्यादातर for the fertilizer market.
हाइड्रोजन is a concern in metallurgy as it can embrittle many धातुओं, complicating the डिज़ाइन of pipelines and storage tanks.
अजेय is a 2010 American action थ्रिलर फिल्मी directed by Tony Scott, written by Mark Bomback, and अभिनीत Denzel Washington और Chris Pine.
The film, loosely based on the real-life CSX 8888 incident, tells the story of a runaway भाड़ा ट्रैन, and the दो men ( Washington and Pine ) who manage to रोकें it.
It was Scott 's फाइनल feature film before his death in 2012.
the film was released in the United States and Canada on November 12, 2010, और in the संयुक्त Kingdom on November 24, 2010.
it received mostly favorable reviews from film आलोचकों ; it garnered a `` Certified भैस '' rating on Rotten Tomatoes based upon aggregated reviews और a rating of `` generally अनुकूल reviews '' at metacritic.
the film was nominated for an अकादमी Award for Best Sound संपादन at the 83rd अकादमी Awards, but खोया to Inception.
in छायाचित्र, bracketing is the general technique of taking several shots of the same विषय using different कैमरा जमावट.
bracketing is useful and often अनुशंसित in परिस्थितियों that make it difficult to obtain a satisfactory image साथ a single शॉट, especially जब a small विभिन्नता in exposure parameters रै a comparatively large effect on the resulting image.
autobracketing is स्वचालित bracketing by using a setting on the camera to take अनेक bracketed गोलियाँ ( in contrast to the photographer altering the settings by हाथ between each शॉट ).
Given the time it takes to accomplish multiple shots, it is typically, लकिन नहीं always, used for static subjects.
insulated glazing ( ig ), अधिक commonly ज्ञात as double glazing ( or double-pane, और increasingly triple glazing/pane ) हैं दोगुना or triple glass window panes separated by an air or अन्य गैस filled स्पेस to reduce heat ट्रांसफ़र across a भाग of the भवन लिफाफा.
Insulated Glass Units are manufactured साथ कांच in range of मोटाई इससे 3 mm to 10 mm or more in special applications.
laminated or tempered कांच may भी be प्रयुक्त as भाग of the construction.
सबसे इकाई are manufactured with the same मोटाई of glass प्रयुक्त on both panes लकिन special applications such as acoustic attenuation or security may require wide ranges of thicknesses to be incorporated in the वही ईकाई.
a sectioned diagram of a fixed insulated चमकीले Unit ( IGU ), indicating the क्रमांकन convention used in this आलेख.
Surface # 1 is facing बाहर, Surface # 2 is the अंदर surface of the exterior फलक, सतह # 3 is the बाहर surface of the interior pane, and सतह # 4 is the inside सतह of आंतरिक pane.
The खिड़की frame is labelled # 5, a spacer is indicated as # 6, seals हैं shown in रेड ( # 7 ), the internal खुलासा is on the right hand side ( # 8 ) and the exterior windowsill on the left ( # 9 )
to reduce shear effects on the sealed ईकाई ( a प्रमुख cause of असामयिक failure ), निर्माताओं use a नियम of thumb कि permits a अंतर of 1 mm between the मोटाई of the panes of glass प्रयुक्त in the ईकाई और स्टिल maintain the वारंटी लिये the unit.
लिये उदाहरण, a ईकाई may be ordered साथ a 4 mm फलक on the exterior और a 3 mm pane on the आंतरिक.
ये variations are allowed लिये architectural and लागत reasons.
Other combinations can be निर्दिष्ट और produced लकिन the manufacturer may reserve the right to limit the पद of the warranty or refuse to वारंटी the unit altogether.
For ease of वर्णन the surfaces of a double paned unit are named according to the following convention : Surface # 1 ( facing outside ), Surface # 2 ( अंदर of outside pane ), Surface # 3 ( outside of अंदर फलक ) and Surface # 4 ( inside surface of inside फलक ).
applying the corresponding nomenclature for ट्रिपल paned units results in सतहों # 1 through # 6.
The performance of insulating glazing can be modified through the use of the following:
A typical installation of insulated glazing windows with uPVC खिड़की frames.
सेलेनियम is a chemical element with symbol se और परमाणु क्रमांक 34.
It is a nonmetal with गुण कि are intermediate between those of इसके आवधिक table column-adjacent chalcogen elements sulfur and tellurium.
It rarely occurs in इसके elemental राज्य in प्रकृति, or as pure ore यौगिकों.
Selenium ( Greek σελήνη selene अर्थ `` Moon '' ) थी खोजा in 1817 by Jöns Jacob Berzelius, who noted the similarity of the new element to the previously-known tellurium ( named for the Earth ).
सेलेनियम is found impurely in metal sulfide ores, जहाँ it partially replaces the sulfur.
commercially, selenium is produced as a byproduct in the शोधन of ये ores, सबसे प्रायः दौरान तांबे उत्पादन.
खनिज that हैं pure selenide or selenate compounds are known, but हैं rare.
The मुख्य वाणिज्यिक uses लिये selenium today are in glassmaking and in pigments.
Selenium is a semiconductor and is प्रयुक्त in photocells.
Uses in electronics, once महत्वपूर्ण, have been ज़्यादातर supplanted by सिलिकॉन semiconductor devices.
Selenium continues to be प्रयुक्त in a few प्रकार of dc शक्ति surge protectors और one type of fluorescent quantum बिन्दु.
सेलेनियम salts हैं विषाक्त in विशाल amounts, but trace amounts हैं necessary लिये cellular फलन in अनेक जीवों, सहित सब पशु.
Selenium is a घटक of the antioxidant एंजाइमों glutathione peroxidase and thioredoxin reductase ( which indirectly reduce certain oxidized अणुओं in पशु and कुछ plants ).
It is भी found in तीन deiodinase enzymes, which convert one थायराइड hormone to another.
Selenium आवश्यकताएँ in plants differ by species, साथ कुछ plants requiring अपेक्षाकृत विशाल amounts, और अन्य जाहिर requiring none.
The संयुक्त States अध्यक्षीय चुनाव of 2008 was the 56th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय election.
it was held on मंगलवार, November 4, 2008.
Democrat बराक Obama, then the जूनियर Senator इससे इलिनोइस, defeated Republican John मैक्केन, the senior सीनेटर from Arizona.
As the campaign progressed, the युद्ध in Iraq and outgoing Republican अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. Bush था become increasingly unpopular, and the major-party candidates ran on a platform of बदलें and reform.
Domestic policy and the economy eventually उभरा as the main themes in the last few months of the चुनाव अभियान बाद the onset of the worst recession चूंकि the 1930s.
Obama would go on to win a निर्णायक victory over McCain in both the electoral and लोकप्रिय vote.
ओबामा received the सबसे votes लिये a presidential candidate in अमरीकी history, and won the लोकप्रिय और electoral vote by the largest हाशिया in 12 years, as well as the largest प्रतिशत of the popular vote लिये a Democrat in nearly a half-century.
This थी the first u.S. अध्यक्षीय चुनाव in which an अफ़्रीकी American was elected, having also been the first in जिससे an African अमरीकी won the nomination of either प्रमुख party.
This चुनाव was भी notable लिये being the first time in U.S. history कि both major party उम्मीदवार यहूद बैठे U.S. Senators, only the तीसरा time ( after 1920 और 1960 ) that कोई sitting U.S. सीनेटर was निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष, and only the दूसरी समय कि the winning President and Vice President ( ओबामा and बिडेन ) were both sitting U.S. Senators.
इस थी also the first election चूंकि 1952 in which neither of the प्रमुख parties ' नामांकित थी the incumbent President or वाइस President.
The Sovereign Prince or Princess of मोनाको is the reigning monarch and head of state of the Principality of मोनाको.
All princes or राजकुमारियों have officially taken the name of the House of Grimaldi, but have belonged to विभिन्न अन्य घरों ( Goyon de matignon, polignac ) in पुरूष लकीर.
The reigning Prince is Albert II.
कल्पना of fragmentation और तब of defragmentation
In the मेंटेनेंस of संचिका systems, defragmentation is a प्रक्रम that reduces the राशि of fragmentation.
it does this by physically organizing the contents of the द्रव्यमान storage device used to store फाइलें into the smallest number of contiguous regions ( fragments ).
it भी attempts to create larger regions of फ़्री space using compaction to impede the वापसी of fragmentation.
Some defragmentation utilities कोशिश to keep छोटी फाइलें भीतर a single directory साथ, as they हैं often accessed in sequence.
Defragmentation is लाभदायक and relevant to file प्रणालियों on electromechanical disk drives.
the गति of the hard drive 's read/write heads over different areas of the डिस्क when accessing fragmented files is slower, compared to accessing the entire सामग्री of a non-fragmented file sequentially without चलती the read/write heads to तलाश other fragments.
A service-level agreement ( SLA ) is a part of a service अनुबंध where a सेवा is formally defined.
In अभ्यास, the term SLA is sometimes used to refer to the contracted delivery समय ( of the service or performance ).
As an example, internet सेवा providers will commonly include service level agreements भीतर the शर्तें of their contracts with customers to define the level ( s ) of सेवा होने sold in plain language शर्तें.
In this case the SLA will typically have a technical definition in शर्तें of mean time between failures ( MTBF ), mean time to repair or mean time to recovery ( mttr ) ; विभिन्न आंकड़ा rates ; throughput ; jitter ; or similar measurable details.
Union स्टेशन is a former shopping mall in संघ City, Georgia, in southwest मैट्रो Atlanta सटा to Interstate 85.
After new ownership and renovations in 2006, the नाम was changed from Shannon southpark मॉल in 2007 to Union Station मॉल.
A पिछला नवीकरण थी done in the लेट 1990s.
the मॉल has been closed चूंकि November 2010.
इस map shows the संलग्न United States and, in insets at the निम्नतर left, the दो राज्य that are नहीं contiguous.
The contiguous संयुक्त राज्य are the 48 adjoining U.S. राज्य on the continent of North America कि are दक्षिण of Canada और उत्तर of मैक्सिको, प्लस the District of कोलंबिया.
The term excludes the states of Alaska and हवाई, और all off-shore U.S. territories and possessions, such as प्यूर्टो Rico.
साथ, the 48 contiguous states and D.C. occupy a संयुक्त area of, which is 1.58 % of the कुल surface area of the Earth.
Of this, is land, composing 83.65 % of U.S. land area.
officially, is जल area, composing 62.66 % of the nation 's water area.
The 2010 जनसांख्यिकी population was 306,675,006, composing 99.33 % of the nation 's जनसांख्यिकी, and a density of 103.639 inhabitants/sq mi ( 40.015/km2 ), compared to 87.264/sq mi ( 33.692/km2 ) for the nation as a पूरे.
`` Why '' is the शीर्षक of a song अंकित by American country band Rascal flatts.
It is the third सिंगल इससे their sixth studio एल्बम, अजेय.
It was released to रेडियो stations on September 29, 2009 and debuted at # 44 on the u.s. Billboard US Billboard Hot Country गीतों chart for the week of अक्तूबर 10, 2009.
it was written by रोब mathes and Allen shamblin.
Utilization प्रबन्धन is the evaluation of the appropriateness, medical need और efficiency of health परवाह services procedures and facilities according to स्थापित criteria or guidelines and under the provisions of an applicable स्वास्थ्य benefits plan.
typically it includes नई activities or निर्णय based upon the analysis of a case.
utilization प्रबन्धन describes proactive procedures, सहित निर्वहन नियोजन, concurrent नियोजन, pre-certification और नैदानिक मामला appeals.
It also covers proactive processes, such as concurrent नैदानिक reviews and peer reviews, as खूब as appeals introduced by the प्रदाता, payer or patient.
As pre-certification and concurrent review of cases grew, utilization management spun आउट of utilization review.
While not synonymous, स्वास्थ्य परवाह पेशेवर tend to use the terms as interchangeable.
the अंतर is utilization management is and intends to मैनेज health care cases efficiently और cost effectively before और दौरान स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रशासन.
Utilization review is more considering whether स्वास्थ्य care थी appropriately applied बाद it थी administered.
There are four basic techniques in utilization management:
माँग प्रबन्धन
Utilization पुनर्विलोकन
Case Management
बीमारी Management
the Outsiders is a coming-of-age अनोखा by S. E. hinton, first published in 1967 by Viking Press.
Hinton थी 15 when she प्रारंभ writing the novel, लकिन did most of the work जब वो was सोलह and a junior in high school.
hinton was 18 when the book was published.
The book follows two rival समूह, the greasers and the Socs ( pronounced by the लेखक as, short for socials ), जो are विभाजित by उनके socioeconomic status.
the book takes place in तुलसा, ओक्लाहोमा, in 1965, but it is never stated in the book.
A फिल्मी अनुकूलन was produced in 1983, और a little-known short-lived टेलीविज़न श्रेणी appeared in 1990, picking up where the movie बाएँ बंद.
The संयुक्त States House of Representatives is एक of the दो घरों of the United States कॉंग्रेस ( a bicameral legislature ).
it is frequently referred to as the House.
the अन्य हाउस is the Senate.
The संयोजन और powers of the हाउस हैं established in Article One of the United राज्य संविधान.
the प्रमुख शक्ति of the हाउस is to pass federal legislation कि affects the entire country although its बिल्स जरूर भी be passed by the सीनेट और further सहमत to by the U.S. अध्यक्ष before becoming विधि ( जबतक both the House और Senate re-pass the विधान with a two-thirds बहुमत in each chamber ).
The हाउस has several exclusive शक्तियां : the शक्ति to initiate revenue bills, to impeach officials, और to elect the U.S. अध्यक्ष in मामला वहीँ is no majority in the Electoral College.
Each U.S. state is represented in the House in proportion to इसके population लकिन is entitled to at least एक representative.
The most populous state, California, फिलहाल रै 53 representatives.
The total number of voting प्रतिनिधि is फिक्स्ड by law at 435.
प्रत्येक प्रतिनिधि serves लिये a two-year term.
the Speaker of the United States हाउस of प्रतिनिधि, who presides over the कक्ष, is elected by the सदस्यों of the हाउस, and is therefore traditionally the leader of the हाउस लोकतांत्रिक caucus or the हाउस रिपब्लिकन Conference, whichever party has more मतदान members.
The हाउस meets in the दक्षिण wing of the संयुक्त States Capitol.
A सप्लाई chain is actually a जटिल and डायनेमिक सप्लाई and demand network.
( cf. wieland/wallenburg, 2011 )
a supply chain is a प्रणाली of organizations, people, activities, information, और resources involved in चलती a product or सेवा from supplier to customer.
सप्लाई chain activities transform natural संसाधन, कच्चा सामग्री, and components into a finished product that is delivered to the समाप्त customer.
in sophisticated सप्लाई chain प्रणालियों, प्रयुक्त products may re-enter the supply chain at any पाइंट where residual value is recyclable.
सप्लाई chains कड़ी value जंजीरों.
`` Purple haze '' is a song लिखा और recorded by Jimi Hendrix in 1967, released as the second सिंगल by The Jimi Hendrix Experience in both the संयुक्त Kingdom and the United States.
it later appeared on the अमरीकी संस्करण of the बैंड 's 1967 album हैं तुम अनुभवी.
`` जामुनी haze '' has become एक of the `` archetypical psychedelic drug songs of the sixties ''.
`` जामुनी Haze 's '' guitar virtuosic techniques would be emulated by अनेक metal guitarists.
a close up चित्र of a rhinoceros skin.
स्किन is the soft outer covering of vertebrates.
Other एनिमल coverings such as the सन्धिपाद बहि have different developmental origin, structure and chemical composition.
The adjective cutaneous means `` of the skin '' ( from लैटिन cutis, स्किन ).
In स्तनधारियों, the skin is the largest अंग of the integumentary system made up of अनेक परतों of ectodermal ऊतक, and guards the underlying मांसपेशियां, bones, ligaments और internal organs.
Skin of a different प्रकृति exists in amphibians, सरीसृपों, and पक्षियों.
All mammals have कुछ बाल on उनके स्किन, भी marine mammals which appear to be hairless.
The स्किन interfaces with the पर्यावरण और is the first line of defense इससे external factors.
For उदाहरण, the स्किन plays a key role in protecting the देह विरूद्ध pathogens और excessive water loss.
Its other functions हैं इन्सुलेशन, तापमान विनियमन, sensation, and the उत्पादन of विटामिन D folates.
severely damaged स्किन may चंगा by forming scar tissue.
इस is sometimes discoloured and depigmented.
the thickness of skin भी varies from location to location on an organism.
In इंसानो लिये example, the skin located under the eyes and around the eyelids is the thinnest स्किन in the body at 0.5 mm मोटा, and is one of the first areas to show signs of aging such as `` crows feet '' and झुर्रियां.
The skin on the palms and the soles of the feet is 4 mm thick and the thickest skin in the body.
Fur is dense hair.
primarily, fur augments the इन्सुलेशन the skin provides लकिन can also serve as a द्वितीयक sexual characteristic or as camouflage.
on some animals, the skin is बहुत मुश्किल और thick, और can be processed to create leather.
Reptiles and fish have hard सुरक्षात्मक तराजू on their skin for protection, and birds have मुश्किल feathers, सब made of tough β- keratins.
Amphibian skin is not a दमदार barrier to ड्योढ़ी of chemicals and is प्रायः subject to osmosis and diffusive forces.
लिये example, a frog sitting in an anesthetic solution would be sedated quickly, as the chemical diffuses through its स्किन.
थामस Scott
The रेव. थामस स्कॉट ( 1747-1821 ) was an influential preacher and author who is प्रधानतया ज्ञात for his best-selling work A commentary on The Whole Bible and the Force of Truth, और as one of the founders of the Church Missionary Society.
डेनियल Radcliffe, who portrays Harry Potter, रै महरूम the icon of the फिल्मी series since the release of the पहला फिल्मी in 2001.
कुछ of the most प्रसिद्ध अभिनेताओं of the United Kingdom and Ireland have voiced or portrayed वर्ण appearing in the हैरी Potter फिल्मी series based on the book series by J. K. रोलिंग.
डेनियल Radcliffe, Rupert grint and Emma Watson have निभाई हैरी Potter, Ron Weasley और Hermione Granger in all the films.
जब वे यहूद cast तभी radcliffe had previously acted in a film.
Complementing them on screen हैं such अभिनेताओं as हेलेना Bonham Carter, Jim broadbent, John Cleese, Robbie Coltrane, Warwick Davis, Ralph Fiennes, माइकल Gambon, Brendan Gleeson, रिचर्ड ग्रीफिथ, Richard Harris, John ठेस, जेसन isaacs, Miriam Margolyes, हेलेन mccrory, Gary oldman, Alan Rickman, फिओना Shaw, Maggie स्मिथ, Timothy Spall, Imelda staunton, दाउद thewlis, Emma Thompson, और जूली walters, among अन्य.
Thirteen actors have appeared as the वही character in all eight films of the franchise.
Some well-known British अभिनेताओं जो have नहीं appeared in the series, हैं पूछा in jest why वे have नहीं महरूम डाल.
जब David Yates थी directing the fifth film, विधेयक Nighy, who था previously collaborated with Yates on three of his टेलीविज़न प्रोजेक्ट, said that he joked साथ येट्स that संभवतः now he would n't be the only actor in इंग्लैण्ड जो था n't महरूम in Harry कुम्हार.
`` लकिन nobody पुकारा '', Nighy added.
But in 2009, येट्स डाल nighy as Minister of जादू rufus scrimgeour in deathly hallows.
Nighy said, `` I am no longer the only English actor नहीं to be in Harry Potter and i am बहुत pleased. ''
Jude Law has quipped, `` nobody 's asked me.
I was a bit too old लिये Harry ''.
जब a रिपोर्टर compared potions प्राध्यापक Horace slughorn 's obsession with famous names to the series ' कनेक्शन to `` every notable British actor, '' Jim Broadbent, who plays slughorn कहा, `` खूब, not every कर्ता gets invited.
i know कुछ who are still प्रतीक्षारत. ''
With the एक्सेप्शन of Chris Columbus, each director has था a cameo रूप in his respective फिल्मी : Alfonso Cuarón appears as a जादूगर holding a candle दौरान a scene at the Three Broomsticks in Prisoner of azkaban ; Mike newell is heard briefly as the radio प्रस्तुतकर्ता in Frank Bryce 's house in Goblet of आग ; and David Yates features as a wizard भीतर a magical चलती पोर्ट्रेट in अनुक्रम of the Phoenix.
Producer David heyman also makes a कैमियो appearance as a wizard प्रदर्शित within a magical चलती पोर्ट्रेट in the third film, कैदी of Azkaban.
J. K. Rowling दिया a वाक during the world premiere of the final फिल्मी in the series— हैरी Potter and the Deathly hallows Part 2 —on 7 July 2011 in लंदन, इंग्लैण्ड.
वो announced that she could never have dreamt of the प्रतिभाशाली अभिनेताओं and actresses who have appeared in सब the हैरी Potter फिल्मों.
Rowling भी announced that there are seven हैरी कुम्हार film series डाल members, जो वो refers to as `` The Big Seven '', they are Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert grint, Emma Watson, Tom Felton, Matthew Lewis, Evanna लिंच and Bonnie राइट.
The सूची नीचे is sorted by film और character, as कुछ characters have महरूम portrayed by multiple अभिनेताओं.
Key
( v ) indicates the actor or actress lent only his or her आवाज़ लिये his or उसके film अक्षर
( y ) indicates the कर्ता or actress portrayed the भूमिका in a flashback झाँकी or जब the character थी young.
( f ) indicates the कर्ता or अभिनेत्री किया not appear in कोई new footage लिये the film ; फुटेज from an earlier film or films was used.
A light धूसर cell ( such as the एक in the `` दान Burbage '' row in the `` Philosopher 's Stone '' कालम ) indicates the character थी नहीं in the फिल्मी adaptation.
A twelve-step कार्यक्रम is a नियत of guiding principles ( accepted by members as 'spiritual सिद्धान्त, ' based on the approved साहित्य ) outlining a course of action for recovery इससे, मजबूरी, or other behavioral समस्याएं.
Originally proposed by alcoholics Anonymous ( AA ) as a method of रिकवरी from alcoholism, the बारह कदम were पहला published in the book Alcoholics Anonymous : the स्टोरी of How More than One Hundred Men Have Recovered from Alcoholism in 1939.
The method was then adapted and became the foundation of other twelve-step कार्यक्रम.
As summarized by the अमरीकी Psychological Association, the प्रक्रम involves the following:
admitting कि one can नहीं कंट्रोल एक 's व्यसन or compulsion ;
recognizing a उच्चतर power that can give strength ;
examining पास्ट errors साथ the सहायता of a प्रायोजक ( experienced member ) ;
making amends for these त्रुटियाँ ;
learning to live a new जीवन साथ a नई code of बर्ताव ;
helping others who suffer इससे the वही addictions or compulsions.
Witness महाभियोग, in the law of प्रमाण of the United States, is the process of calling into question the credibility of an individual who is testifying in a विचारण.
The Federal Rules of Evidence contain the नियम governing महाभियोग in federal courts.
Party leaders and whips of the United States House of Representatives are elected by their संबंधित पार्टियों in a closed-door caucus by रहस्य ballot and are भी ज्ञात as floor leaders.
The U.S. हाउस of Representatives करता नहीं officially use the term `` अल्पसंख्यक Leader '' हालांकि the मीडिया अक्सर do.
The हाउस instead uses the terms `` रिपब्लिकन नेता '' or `` Democratic नेता '' depending on which party holds a minority of सीटे.
the current House Majority नेता is रिपब्लिकन Eric cantor, जबकि the current हाउस Minority नेता is Democrat Nancy pelosi.
The current House बहुमत चाबुक is रिपब्लिकन Kevin मैकार्थी, जबकि the current हाउस अल्पसंख्यक Whip is Democrat steny Hoyer.
Following the outbreak of World युद्ध i in 1914, the German Army opened the Western Front by first आक्रमणकारी ध्वज and Belgium, तब gaining सैन्य control of महत्वपूर्ण industrial regions in France.
the tide of the advance थी dramatically turned साथ the बैटल of the Marne.
following the race to the sea, both sides dug in along a meandering line of fortified trenches, stretching from the उत्तर Sea to the Swiss frontier साथ फ़्रांस.
इस line remained essentially unchanged for सबसे of the युद्ध.
Between 1915 और 1917 there were several major offensives साथ इस front.
the attacks employed massive artillery bombardments and massed infantry अग्रिम.
However, a combination of entrenchments, यंत्र gun nests, barbed wire, और तोपखाने repeatedly inflicted severe हताहत on the attackers and counterattacking defenders.
as a परिणाम, no significant अग्रिम यहूद made.
among the most costly of these offensives were the Battle of Verdun with a संयुक्त [ अनुमानित ] 700,000 dead, the बैटल of the somme साथ more than [ an estimated ] million हताहत, और the Battle of passchendaele साथ roughly [ an estimated ] 600,000 casualties.
In an effort to ब्रेक the deadlock, this सामने saw the introduction of नई सैन्य प्रौद्योगिकी, including poison gas, aircraft and tanks.
But it थी तभी बाद the adoption of improved tactics that कुछ उपाधि of गतिशीलता थी restored.
The जर्मनी वसन्त Offensive of 1918 was made possible by the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk कि चिह्नित the end of the conflict on the Eastern सामने.
using the recently-introduced infiltration tactics, the German सेना उन्नत nearly to the west, which चिह्नित the deepest अग्रिम by either side चूंकि 1914 और very nearly succeeded in forcing a breakthrough.
In spite of the generally stagnant nature of this सामने, this थिएटर would prove निर्णायक.
The inexorable advance of the Allied armies दौरान the second हाफ of 1918 persuaded the जर्मनी commanders कि defeat was inevitable, और the government was मजबूर to sue लिये conditions of an armistice.
The terms of सलाम यहूद सहमत upon with the signing of the सन्धि of Versailles in 1919.
the following is a list of पुनरावर्ती and minor वर्ण in the Disney Channel Original Series The सुइट Life of zack & कोड़ी.
ये वर्ण were regularly घुमाया, often disappearing for long periods दौरान the series.
The following सूची of characters has been sorted alphabetically, by first name.
Some of the वर्ण था no last name and most were commonly referred to by उनके first नाम so this appeared to be the most लॉजिकल विधि.
In the case of Chef Paolo, जो था no known first name, वे have महरूम listed by title.
The First Lady of the United States ( FLOTUS ) is the hostess of the श्वेत House.
Because इस position is traditionally filled by the wife of the अध्यक्ष of the United States, the शीर्षक is सबसे often applied to the बीवी of a बैठे president.
The current पहला महिला is Michelle ओबामा.
बाद her husband Barack Obama was re-elected on नवम्बर 6, 2012, she is scheduled to serve until जनवरी 20, 2017.
सेप्टिक shock is a चिकित्सा condition as a result of severe infection and sepsis, though the microbe may be systemic or localized to a particular साईट.
It can cause multiple organ dysfunction सिंड्रोम ( formerly ज्ञात as multiple organ failure ) and मौत.
इसके सबसे common पीड़ितों are children, immunocompromised individuals, और the elderly, as उनके immune systems can नहीं सौदे with the infection as effectively as those of healthy adults.
अक्सर, मरीजों suffering from सेप्टिक shock are cared लिये in intensive care units.
The मृत्यु rate इससे सेप्टिक shock is लगभग 25–50 %.
Kevin brereton ( born फ़रवरी 20, 1972 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके stage name k-os ( ; `` chaos '' ), is a Canadian rapper, singer, songwriter और record producer.
His given नाम may also be cited as Kheaven, a स्पेलिंग he later adopted.
the alias `` k-os '', spelled with a निम्नतर case `` k '', was intended to be less aggressive than the pseudonyms of other rappers whose names यहूद all upper case, such as KRS-One.
it is an acronym for `` ज्ञान of स्वः, '' हालांकि in a later इंटरव्यू he कहा कि it originally stood for `` Kevin 's असली Sound. '' k-os ' music incorporates a wide variety of music genres, सहित rap, funk, rock, and reggae.
The lyrics अक्सर फ़ोकस on promoting a `` positive message '' जबकि at times expressing आलोचना of मुख्यधारा हिप hop संस्कृति 's obsession with money, कीर्ति और glorification of violence.
A musician as खूब as a producer, k-os has written और produced nearly प्रत्येक भाग of all चार of his एल्बम.
k-os प्रायः performs साथ a सजीव band, something that is uncommon in the hip हॉप विधा.
He sometimes plays guitar and कुंजीपटल दोनो during सजीव performances and in the studio.
k-os प्राप्त his first musical exposure साथ the single `` Musical Essence '', released in 1993.
बाद the release of his second single `` वृद्धि जैसे the सूर्य '' in 1996, he withdrew from the उद्योग because he थी असंतुष्ट with his musical style.
He reappeared briefly in 1999 and released his debut album Exit in 2002.
The एल्बम प्राप्त धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ but बेची relatively few नक़ल.
He released उसके second album Joyful Rebellion in 2004, जिससे received platinum औकात in कनाडा.
A third album,, थी released in 2006 and also went प्लेटिनम.
उसके fourth album, Yes !
, थी released in 2009.
उसके fifth album ब्लैक on सुनहरे was released in 2013.
The आधिकारिक 2007 edition of the ucc.
Even the गोपनीय rough drafts of the ucc were saved and published as a 10-volume set.
The वर्दी वाणिज्यिक Code ( UCC or the कोड ), पहला published in 1952, is एक of a क्रमांक of uniform अधिनियमों that have been promulgated in संयोजन with efforts to harmonize the law of बिक्री और अन्य वाणिज्यिक transactions in सब 50 states within the संयुक्त States of अमेरिका.
multi-pitch climbing is the ascent of climbing routes with एक or more stops at a belay station.
प्रत्येक section of actual climbing between stops at the belay stations is पुकारा a पिच.
The leader ascends the पिच, रखकर गियर and stopping to लंगर themselves to the belay station.
the कारण लिये the stops can be संकल्पित by choice, convention or necessity.
For example:
the rope is too short to do the entire route in one pitch ( necessity ).
The नेता रै run out of protective gear ( necessity ).
वहीँ is a सुविधाजनक protectable कगार, or फिक्स्ड bolts लगाई by पिछला climbers, at the स्थान लिये a belay स्टेशन ( सम्मेलन ).
The leader chooses to rest or एक्सचेंज लीड before the next खण्ड of the climb ( choice ).
The general purpose of ये stops is to allow the दूसरी to ascend to the पाइंट of the सीसे climber while collecting the protective gear from the route in the course of the सीसे climber 's ascent.
at the belay station, the सुरक्षात्मक gear is collected, possibly exchanged to a new leader, and the leader of the अगला पिच ascends the route.
A diagram showing an I गठन on ठोकर और a 4-3 Formation on रक्षा
in अमरीकी football, each team has eleven players on the field at one time.
The विशिष्ट role कि a player takes on the field is called their स्थिति.
Under the आधुनिक नियम of American football, teams are allowed unlimited subsititutions, कि is teams may change any number of खिलाड़ी after any play.
This has resulted in the विकास of three `` platoons '' of players, the ठोकर ( the team साथ the बॉल, जो is trying to score ), the defense ( the टोली trying to prevent the other team from scoring, and to take the बॉल from उन्हें ), और the खास टीमों ( who play in kicking situations ).
Within those platoons, various विशिष्ट positions exist depending on कया the player 's प्रमुख जॉब is.
the नियंत्रित Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the कॉंग्रेस of the United States as Title ii of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970.
The सीएसए is the federal U.S. drug नीति under which the manufacture, importation, कब्ज़ा, use and distribution of निश्चित substances is regulated.
The Act भी परोसा as the national implementing legislation लिये the Single Convention on narcotic Drugs.
the legislation निर्मित five schedules ( classifications ), with varying qualifications for a substance to be शामिल in each.
Two संघीय agencies, the ड्रग Enforcement Administration and the खाना and Drug Administration, determine which substances are added to or removed from the विभिन्न schedules, though the statute passed by Congress निर्मित the आरंभिक लिस्टिंग, और Congress रै sometimes scheduled other substances through legislation such as the Hillory J. Farias and Samantha reid date-rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of 2000, which लगाई गामा hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I. Classification decisions are required to be made on criteria सहित potential for abuse ( an अपरिभाषित पद ), फिलहाल accepted medical use in उपचार in the United राज्य, and international treaties.
The Wayne Route 23 Transit बीच is a New जर्सी Transit park-and-ride स्टेशन in Wayne, New जर्सी along the Montclair-Boonton Line that provides bus service to New यॉर्क City और विभिन्न other points in the क्षेत्रफल as well as montclair-boonton लकीर train सेवा to New York, Hoboken, and इंटरमीडिएट अंक साथ the line between hackettstown and montclair राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों.
It is स्तिथ off of the southbound lanes of New जर्सी Route 23 on West Belt Road, near the interchange where रूट 23, Interstate 80, and U.S. रूट 46 meet, across from the Willowbrook Mall.
The station opened in January 2008 और रै 1,000 पार्किंग spaces.
New Jersey Transit intends लिये इस संयुक्त rail और bus स्टेशन to become an `` interceptor स्टेशन, '' कि will help relieve the habitual जमघट at the West Belt Road Interchange, जहाँ the three major राजमार्गों meet.
In जोड, the construction of the station थी meant to also आसानी the जमघट at what was then रूट 23 Park & Ride, a बस डिपो on Route 23 उत्तर that has चूंकि been renamed Mother 's Park & Ride, and the Willowbrook Mall Park & Ride ; the now-mother 's साईट था सीमित पार्किंग while NJT was having trouble with overfull parking areas at Willowbrook.
the Wayne Township bus garage is located on the opposite side of रूट 23.
वहीँ has महरूम a proposal to build a पार्किंग डेक with another thousand spots and develop the जमीन at the station.
in जोड to Montclair-Boonton trains, the Transit Center is served by the following नई Jersey Transit bus लकीरs:
75 to Newark penn Station and बटलर
194 to बंदरगाहों Authority Bus Terminal और Butler/Newfoundland
198 to बंदरगाहों प्राधिकार Bus टर्मिनल और विलियम Paterson University
324 to Port Authority and Wayne रूट 23
748 to Willowbrook Mall और paterson
The at sign @ is भी commonly called the at symbol, ampersat, apetail or commercial at in english—and less commonly a चौड़ी range of other शर्तें.
The fact that there is no single word in अंग्रेज़ी for the प्रतीक रै prompted some लेखक to use the फ्रेंच arobase or स्पेनी and पुर्तगाली arroba—or to coin नई शब्द such as asperand, ampersat—but none of ये रै हासिल wide करेंसी.
originally an हिसाब and commercial चालान abbreviation अर्थ `` at the rate of '' ( e.g. 7 widgets @ $ 2 = $ 14 ), it was नहीं शामिल on the keyboard of the earliest commercially कामयाब typewriters, but थी on at तनिक एक 1889 model and the बहुत successful underwood मॉडल from the `` Underwood no. 5 '' in 1900 onward.
It is now universally included on कंप्यूटर keyboards.
In recent सालो, इसके meaning रै grown to include the sense of being `` located at, '' `` और, '' or `` directed at '', especially in ईमेल addresses और social media, विशेषकर Twitter.
the mark is एनकोडेड at.
the Catcher in the rye is a 1951 अनोखा by J. D. Salinger.
Originally प्रकाशित for वयस्कों, it रै चूंकि become लोकप्रिय साथ adolescent readers लिये इसके themes of teenage angst और alienation.
It रै been translated into almost all of the world 's प्रमुख languages.
Around 250,000 नक़ल are बेची each year with total बिक्री of अधिक than 65 लाख books.
the अनोखा 's समर्थक and antihero, Holden Caulfield, has become an प्रतीक लिये teenage rebellion.
the novel was शामिल on Times 2005 list of the 100 बेहतरीन english-language novels written since 1923, and it थी named by आधुनिक Library and its पाठक as one of the 100 best English-language novels of the 20th सदी.
It has been frequently challenged in the United States and other countries लिये इसके उदार use of profanity and portrayal of sexuality.
It भी deals साथ complex issues of पहचान, belonging, connection, and alienation.
skeletal muscles homo sapiens
इस is a table of muscles of the इंसान anatomy.
There are लगभग 642 skeletal muscles within the typical इंसान, and लगभग प्रत्येक muscle constitutes one part of a pair of identical bilateral muscles, found on both पहलू, resulting in लगभग 320 pairs of muscles, as presented in this article.
Nevertheless, the exact number is difficult to define क्युकी different स्त्रोत समूह मांसपेशियां differently, e.g. regarding कया is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as अनेक muscles.
Examples range इससे 640 to 850.
the muscles of the इंसान देह can be categorized into a number of groups which include मांसपेशियां relating to the सिर और गर्दन, मांसपेशियां of the torso or ट्रंक, muscles of the अपर limbs, and मांसपेशियां of the निम्नतर limbs.
the action refers to the action of प्रत्येक muscle इससे the मानक anatomical position.
In other positions, other क्रियाएँ may be performed.
ख़राब लड़कियों क्लबों ( BGC ) is an अमरीकी reality television श्रेणी created by Jonathan मरे for the Oxygen television station.
The दिखाएँ centers on सात feisty और शरारती महिलाओं with different backgrounds and personalities, जो have a number of मनोवैज्ञानिक and behavioral problems.
वे हैं introduced to the दिखाएँ off their घातक बर्ताव और accomplish विशिष्ट goals.
The cast, deemed `` bad लड़कियों '', enjoy a luxurious lifestyle in a fine mansion for three months, दौरान which they must obey specified नियम.
Their जीवनदान inside – और outside – of the house are chronicled and recorded by the उत्पादन टोली.
the ख़राब Girls क्लबों is broadcast in पाँच countries ( United States, Netherlands, Australia, Hungary, and Sweden ).
It रै received negative समीक्षाएँ from आलोचकों, who believe the दिखाएँ promotes हिंसा by adolescent दर्शक.
Furthermore, several डाल members made controversial remarks which outraged अनेक viewers.
The स्वरूप of the show रै changed from early seasons.
if a `` bad लड़की '' breaks a नियम, वो is evicted from the show और, if it is early in the ऋतु, replaced by a new `` bad लड़की ''.
There have been nine complete seasons of The Bad Girls क्लबों, with the tenth ऋतु फिलहाल airing.
The चौथी ऋतु had the highest ratings in the show 's history, बनने its `` breakthrough ऋतु ''.
वहीँ have been three spin-offs of The Bad Girls क्लबों.
One of उन्हें, Love Games : ख़राब Girls Need प्रेम too, where पास्ट cast members seek सच्चा love, रै gained ऊँची ratings.
Oxygen रै also released a mobile game, comic स्ट्रिप and merchandise to promote the show.
Of the 92 contestants, Kerry Harvick ( of season one ) was a successful देश सिंगर पहले the show.
tanisha Thomas ( of season two ) later hosted Oxygen 's oxygenlive !
और the subsequent seasons of प्रेम Games : ख़राब लड़कियों need प्रेम Too.
थामस, who has महरूम उतावले the `` godmother '' to सब contestants, रै her own टेलीविज़न documentary entitled Tanisha gets Married.
As of Season 8 she 's been the host of the पुनर्मिलन specials.
The Iowa सीनेट is the upper house of the Iowa सामान्य Assembly.
There हैं 50 सीटे in the आयोवा Senate, representing 50 single-member districts across the state साथ populations of approximately 60,927 per constituency,.
Each सीनेट district is रचित of दो हाउस districts.
the Senate meets at the Iowa राज्य Capitol in देस moines.
Unlike the lower house, the आयोवा House of प्रतिनिधि, Senators serve four-year terms, साथ half of the Senate लड़खड़ाते for re-election every दो सालो.
There are no term limits लिये the सीनेट.
Mechanical repair
Maintenance, repair, and परिचालन ( mro ) or मेंटेनेंस, मरम्मत, and overhaul involves fixing कोई sort of mechanical, plumbing or विद्युत यंत्र चाहिए it become आउट of order or broken ( ज्ञात as repair, unscheduled or casualty maintenance ).
It also शामिल performing दिनचर्या actions which keep the यंत्र in working order ( known as अनुसूचित maintenance ) or prevent trouble from arising ( preventive maintenance ).
MRO may be defined as, `` सब क्रियाएँ जिससे have the उद्देश्य of retaining or restoring an मद in or to a राज्य in which it can perform इसके required फलन.
the actions include the combination of all तकनीकी और सम्बन्धित administrative, managerial, and supervision actions. ''
mro operations can be categorised by whether the उत्पाद remains the प्रॉपर्टी of the ग्राहक, i.e. a service is होने offered, or whether the उत्पाद is bought by the reprocessing संगठन and sold to कोई customer wishing to make the खरीदें ( Guadette, 2002 ).
In the former मामला it may be a backshop operation within a larger organisation or smaller operation.
the former of ये represents a बंद लूप supply कड़ी and प्रायः रै the पैमाना of maintenance, repair or of the product.
The latter of the categorisations is an खोलें loop supply chain और is typified by refurbishment और remanufacture.
The main characteristic of the closed loop system is that the demand for a उत्पाद is matched with the सप्लाई of a used उत्पाद.
Neglecting asset write-offs and exceptional activities the total population of the product between the ग्राहक और the service provider remains constant.
प्रिंस William, Duke of Cambridge ( विलियम Arthur Philip लुई ; born 21 June 1982 ), is the elder son of Charles, प्रिंस of Wales, और डायना, Princess of वेल्स, and third-eldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II और Prince फिलिप, ड्यूक of एडिनबर्ग.
he is second in the line of उत्तराधिकार, पीछे उसके father, to the thrones of सोलह स्वतंत्र sovereign states ज्ञात as the Commonwealth realms : the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, जमैका, बारबाडोस, The बहामा, हरा, पापुआ नई Guinea, the सुलेमान Islands, तुवालू, Saint लूसिया, Saint विंसेंट और the Grenadines, Belize, अण्टीगुआ and Barbuda, and Saint Kitts and नेविस.
Prince William was educated at चार schools in the संयुक्त Kingdom और obtained a degree from the University of St Andrews.
He खर्च parts of a गैप year in चिली, Belize, Tanzania, and कीनिया where he रै जिया और holidayed अनेक times.
प्रिंस William रै also taken Kiswahili अध्ययन at विश्वविद्यालयों in कीनिया and Tanzania.
He was commissioned as a Lieutenant in the ब्लूज़ and Royals Regiment of the Household प्यादे —serving with his bhai Prince Harry —and, two सालो later, earned his wings by completing पायलट training at royal Air Force College cranwell.
in 2009, he transferred to the Royal Air फ़ोर्स, was promoted to Flight Lieutenant and underwent हेलीकाप्टर flying training in अनुक्रम to become a full-time pilot with the Search और Rescue Force.
in 2010, he completed his general और special-to-type helicopter प्रशिक्षण and गई on to RAF घाटी on No. 22 Squadron performing co-pilot duties on फलक a Sea King search and rescue हेलीकाप्टर.
प्रिंस William married उसके longtime girlfriend, Catherine Middleton, on 29 April 2011 at वेस्टमिंस्टर Abbey.
Hours prior to his विवाह, Prince William was created Duke of Cambridge, अर्ल of strathearn, and सामन्त carrickfergus.
DeAndre cortez Way ( born July 28, 1990 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by his stage name soulja लड़के Tell 'Em, or simply Soulja Boy, is an American rapper, रिकार्ड producer, कर्ता, and entrepreneur.
In September 2007, his single `` crank कि ( Soulja Boy ) `` reached क्रमांक एक on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100.
The single was initially self-published on the अंतरजाल, and it बाद became a number-one hit in the संयुक्त States लिये सात non-consecutive सप्ताह starting in September 2007.
On August 17 Way was सूचीबद्ध at # 18 on the Forbes list of hip-hop Cash किंग्स of 2010 कमाई $ 7 million for that year.
Way has currently released तीन studio albums and एक स्वतंत्र एल्बम : उसके डेब्यू स्टुडियो album souljaboytellem.com ( 2007 ) was certified platinum by the RIAA.
however, उसके next two एल्बम, iSouljaBoyTellem ( 2008 ) and The DeAndre Way ( 2010 ) did नहीं match the commercial success of his debut, the latter तभी selling 100,000 नक़ल, despite the success of several singles across दोनो albums, ऐसे as `` Kiss me Thru the फोन `` and `` फेरे my Swag On `` ( isouljaboytellem ) and `` Pretty Boy Swag `` ( The deandre Way ).
This was mainly due to negotiation समस्याएं with Interscope रिकॉर्ड which meant a सीमित amount of records यहूद बना available to the public.
as of 2011, Way has पुष्टि he is working on his चौथी स्टुडियो album, entitled USA ड्रे, which will be released in 2013.
The electron transport कड़ी in the mitochondrion is the site of oxidative phosphorylation in eukaryotes.
The nadh and succinate generated in the citric acid cycle are oxidized, providing energy to power ATP synthase.
Photosynthetic electron transport chain of the thylakoid झिल्ली.
an electron transport chain ( ETC ) couples इलेक्ट्रॉन ट्रांसफ़र between an electron donor ( such as nadh ) and an इलेक्ट्रॉन acceptor ( ऐसे as o2 ) with the ट्रांसफ़र of H+ ions ( protons ) across a झिल्ली.
the resulting electrochemical proton gradient is used to generate रासायनिक उर्जा in the form of एडीनोसिन ट्राइफॉस्फेट ( एटीपी ).
Electron transport chains are the सेल्यूलर mechanisms प्रयुक्त लिये extracting उर्जा from sunlight in photosynthesis and also from redox प्रतिक्रियाएँ, such as the oxidation of sugars ( respiration ).
In chloroplasts, लाइट drives the conversion of water to oxygen and nadP+ to nadph with transfer of H+ ions across chloroplast membranes.
in mitochondria, it is the conversion of ऑक्सीजन to water, nadh to naD+ and succinate to fumarate कि are required to generate the प्रोटॉन अनुपात.
इलेक्ट्रॉन हस्तांतरण chains हैं major sites of असामयिक electron leakage to oxygen, generating superoxide and potentially resulting in increased oxidative तनाव.
tramadol hydrochloride ( trademarked as Conzip, Ryzolt, Ultracet, ultram in the USA, Ralivia, Zytram xl Durella { cr-100/200 mg } in कनाडा or adolonta in Spain ) is a centrally acting synthetic analgesic used to treat moderate to moderately कठोर pain.
the drug has a wide दायरा of अनुप्रयोग, including उपचार of rheumatoid arthritis, बेचैन legs syndrome, मोटर neurone बीमारी और fibromyalgia.
It was launched और marketed as tramal by the जर्मनी फार्मास्युटिकल कम्पनी grünenthal GmbH in 1977.
Tramadol is a weak μ-opioid receptor agonist that भी induces serotonin रिलीज and inhibits the reuptake of norepinephrine.
tramadol is metabolized to O-desmethyltramadol, a significantly more potent μ-opioid agonist.
Tramadol and इसके major metabolite ( s ) हैं विशिष्ट from other more potent opioid agonists by relative selectivity for μ-opioid receptors.
Bernard लॉरेंस `` बर्नी '' madoff ( ; born April 29, 1938 ) is an American पूर्व stockbroker, investment advisor, फाइनेंसर, and white कॉलर criminal.
He is the former non-executive Chairman of the NASDAQ भण्डार market, and the admitted operator of a पेन्शन scheme कि is considered to be the largest वित्तीय धोखाधड़ी in U.S. इतिहास.
madoff संस्थापित the वॉल गली firm Bernard L. madoff Investment Securities llc in 1960, and was its chairman जबतक उसके गिरफ़्तार on December 11, 2008.
the firm was एक of the शीर्ष market मेकर व्यवसायों on Wall Street, which bypassed `` विशेषज्ञ '' firms by directly executing orders over the counter from retail brokers.
He employed at the firm his bhai पीटर as Senior Managing Director and मुख्य Compliance अधिकारी ; पीटर has since been sentenced to 10 सालो in prison.
Peter 's बेटी Shana madoff as the firm 's rules and अनुपालन officer and attorney, और उसके बेटे Andrew and चिह्नित ( Mark committed आत्महत्या by hanging exactly two years after his father 's arrest ).
On December 10, 2008, Madoff 's sons told authorities कि उनके पिता था confessed to them कि the asset management ईकाई of his कड़ was a विशाल Ponzi योजना, and कोटेड उसे as describing it as `` one बिग झूठ. ''
the following दिन, FBI agents arrested Madoff and charged him with one count of securities fraud.
The u.S. Securities और एक्सचेंज Commission ( SEC ) had previously conducted investigations into madoff 's business practices, but किया not ख़ोज the massive धोखाधड़ी.
in March 2009, Madoff pleaded अपराधी to 11 संघीय felonies and admitted to turning उसके माल प्रबन्धन business into a विशाल Ponzi scheme कि झांसे हज़ारों of investors of अरबों of dollars.
Madoff said he began the Ponzi scheme in the early 1990s.
However, संघीय जांचकर्ताओं believe the fraud began as जल्दी as the 1970s, and those charged साथ recovering the missing money believe the निवेश operation may never have been legitimate.
the amount missing from client खाते, including fabricated gains, थी almost $ 65 billion.
The court-appointed trustee estimated actual losses to investors of $ 18 अरब.
on June 29, 2009, he थी sentenced to 150 सालो in थाना, the maximum allowed.
Administrative पेशेवर Day ( भी ज्ञात as secretaries Day or Admin Day ) is an unofficial secular holiday observed in several countries to recognize the कार्य of secretaries, administrative assistants, receptionists, and other administrative support पेशेवर.
In North America, it is मनाये on the Wednesday of the last full week of April ( अप्रैल 24 in 2013 ).
In फ़्रांस it is celebrated on the third Thursday in अप्रैल ( April 18 in 2013 ).
In ऑस्ट्रेलिया it is मनाये on the पहला शुक्रवार in May
A quasi-judicial देह is an एंटिटी such as an arbitrator or tribunal board, generally of a public प्रशासनिक agency, जिससे has शक्तियां and procedures resembling those of a court of विधि or judge, and which is obligated to objectively determine facts and चित्रण conclusions इससे them so as to provide the आधार of an आधिकारिक कार्रवाई.
ऐसे actions हैं able to remedy a situation or थोपने legal penalties, और may affect the विधिक अधिकारों, कर्तव्य or privileges of विशिष्ट parties.
Monument of tycho Brahe और योहानेस Kepler in Prague
tycho ब्राहे ( 14 December 154624 अक्तूबर 1601 ), born Tyge Ottesen Brahe, was a Danish nobleman known लिये his सटीक और comprehensive खगोलीय and planetary observations.
He थी born in स्कैनिया, then part of Denmark, अभी भाग of modern-day Sweden.
Tycho was well known in उसके lifetime as an astronomer and alchemist.
in his De नोवा स्टेला ( On the new स्टार ) of 1573, he refuted the aristotelian belief in an unchanging celestial realm.
His precise measurements indicated that `` नई stars, '' ( stellae novae, now known as supernovae ) in particular that of 1572, lacked the parallax अपेक्षित in sub-lunar phenomena, और were therefore not `` atmospheric '' tailless comets as previously believed, लकिन were ऊपर the माहौल और moon.
Using similar measurements he दिखाया that comets यहूद also not atmospheric phenomena, as previously thought, और must pass through the माना `` अपरिवर्तनीय '' celestial spheres.
As an astronomer, Tycho worked to combine कया he देखी as the geometrical benefits of the copernican system with the philosophical लाभ of the Ptolemaic प्रणाली into उसके अपना model of the universe, the tychonic system.
Furthermore, he थी the last of the major naked नजर खगोलशास्त्रियों, working without telescopes for his observations.
tycho Brahe थी granted an estate on the island of Hven और the funding to build the uraniborg, an early research institute, where he built large astronomical instruments and took अनेक careful measurements, and later Stjerneborg, underground, when he discovered कि उसके यंत्र in the former were not fear steady.
on the island ( on which he demonstrated निरंकुश अक्षर and बर्ताव toward the residents ) he संस्थापित manufactories such as paper-making to provide सामग्री लिये मुद्रण his results.
After disagreements with the new डैनिश king Christian IV in 1597, he थी invited by the Bohemian king और Holy रोमन emperor rudolph II to Prague, where he became the आधिकारिक imperial astronomer.
he निर्मित the नई वेधशाला at Benátky nad jizerou.
Here, from 1600 जबतक उसके death in 1601, he was assisted by योहानेस Kepler who बाद used tycho 's astronomical आंकड़ा to develop कॅप्लर 's laws of planetary गति.
guro District ( guro-gu ) is a ज़िला of Seoul, South Korea, which was अलग from Yeongdeungpo District on April 1, 1980.
Located in the southwestern part of the नगर, जहाँ besides yangcheon ज़िला और Geumcheon District Guro ज़िला has an important position as a हस्तांतरण link which contains railroads, land routes इससे the बाकी of Seoul to the south of the देश.
the Gyeongbu और Gyeongin railway लाइनों connect सियोल to बुसान and इंचियोन.
In जोड, Seoul महानगर Subway लाइनों 1, 2, and 7, and प्रमुख highways intersect in Guro District.
The नाम Guro originates इससे the लेजेंड कि nine ( ) old मेन ( कोरियाई : ro ) enjoyed longevity in the district.
a digital industrial जटिल is located in guro District.
the guro Digital Industrial Complex, which played a leading औद्योगिक role mainly साथ textile निर्माण, dressmaking और other labour-intensive industries in 1967, has महरूम rapidly changed into an IT औद्योगिक complex.
This complex निभाई a pivotal role in the economic growth of the South Korea 's विकास era, referred to as the `` चमत्कार on the Han River ``, and also contributed 10 प्रतिशत of national निर्यात in the 1970s.
Twenty-one प्रतिशत of the total area of guro ज़िला is a प्रतिबंधित zone to be प्रयुक्त as a greenbelt with the only arboretum in Seoul.
The zone is बदलना into a lively ज़िला as विशाल labour-intensive factories are चलती from the क्षेत्रफल और the परिषद is विकासशील what it terms its चार zones.
An `` e-government `` system आधारित on this hosted the international e-participation फ़ोरम on February 7–9, 2007, साथ the participation of अधिक than thirty-seven देशों.
The forum was शुभारम्भ with the थीम `` Promoting लोकतंत्र and Regional Development '' and twenty-five mayors including André Santini ( Issy-les-Moulineaux, France ), Kevin foy ( Chapel हिल, US ), Apirak kosayothin ( Bangkok, Thailand ), uvais Mohamed emthiyas ( कोलोन, श्री Lanka ), and संसार experts such as dr विलियम H. Dutton ( Director of ऑक्सफोर्ड अंतरजाल संस्थान at the University of Oxford, UK ) and dr Ari-Veiko Anttiroiko ( प्राध्यापक at the University of Tampere, Finland ) participated in the फ़ोरम.
The guro घोषणा, adopted दौरान the फ़ोरम, aims to set up a portal site for e-government विकास and to स्थापित a कंक्रीट project in order to सेतु the digital divide among the संसार 's शहरों.
इस अभ्यास has been recognised लिये providing a नई महत्वपूर्ण कदम in the development of e-democracy.
the e-participation फ़ोरम was a कुंजी फ़ैक्टर for guro to खेल the leading भूमिका in bridging the digital divide among शहरों, to provide i.t. उद्यमों स्तिथ in guro Digital Industrial Complex the opportunity to लॉन्च into the अंतरराष्ट्रीय market, to improve इसके चित्र और become a global leader to concrete e-democracy.
the international e-participation forum on February 7–9, 2007
A wonton ( also spelled wantan, wanton, or wuntun in transcription from Cantonese ; मंदारिन : húndùn ) is a type of पकौड़ी commonly found in a number of चाइनीज व्यंजन.
अनेक people यहूद involved in the आविष्कार of radio as we now know it.
अनेक संभावित methods of बेतार संचार यहूद considered, including आगमनात्मक and capacitive प्रेरण and हस्तांतरण through the ground, however the method प्रयुक्त for radio आज exclusively involves the transmission and reception of electromagnetic लहरें.
बाद जल्दी speculation on the subject, प्रायोगिक work on the कनेक्शन between electricity और चुंबकत्व began around 1820 with the कार्य of Hans Christian ओर्स्टेड और continued with the work of andré-marie एम्पीयर, Joseph Henry, and Michael फैराडे.
These investigations culminated in the complete सिद्धान्त of electromagnetism developed by James Clerk Maxwell.
इस theory वर्णित the theoretical आधार of the propagation of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक waves.
बाद मैक्सवेल 's theory was published many people experimented साथ बेतार communication, some intentionally using मैक्सवेल 's सिद्धान्त some not.
It is considered likely कि the पहला intentional transmission of a signal by अर्थात् of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक waves थी performed by दाउद Edward ह्यूजेस around 1880, although this थी considered to be induction at the समय.
The first systematic और unequivocal transmission of em लहरें was performed by heinrich रुडॉल्फ Hertz और described in papers प्रकाशित in 1887 and 1890.
हर्ट्ज़ famously considered these results as being of little practical मान.
After Hertz 's कार्य many people यहूद involved in the development of components और सिद्धान्त शामिल साथ the हस्तांतरण and reception of electromagnetic लहरें.
Others, notably Guglielmo मार्कोनी, were concerned with practical सुधार and the commercial अनुप्रयोग of radio to wireless telegraphy.
Later on रेगिनाल्ड A. Fessenden became the first to send an ऑडियो signal by अर्थात् of electromagnetic waves.
Scurvy is a disease resulting from a कमियां of vitamin c, which is required for the synthesis of कोलेजन in humans.
the chemical नाम for विटामिन c, ascorbic acid, is निकला इससे the लैटिन नाम of scurvy, scorbutus, which भी provides the adjective scorbutic ( `` of, characterized by or having to do साथ scurvy '' ).
स्कर्वी often presents itself initially as symptoms of malaise and lethargy, followed by formation of spots on the skin, स्पंजी gums, और bleeding from the mucous झिल्लियों.
Spots हैं most abundant on the जांघों और टाँगे, और a person with the ailment looks पाले, feels depressed, and is partially immobilized.
as स्कर्वी अग्रिम, वहीँ can be खोलें, suppurating wounds, loss of teeth, पीलिया, fever, न्यूरोपैथी and मौत.
स्कर्वी was at one समय common among sailors, pirates and others सवार जहाजों at समुद्र longer than perishable fruits and vegetables could be भंडारित ( subsisting बजाय only on cured and salted meats and dried grains ) and by सैनिको similarly वंचित of these foods for विस्तारित अवधि.
It was described by Hippocrates ( c. 460 BC–c. 380 bc ), और हर्बल cures for scurvy have been ज्ञात in many देशी cultures चूंकि prehistory.
Scurvy was एक of the limiting कारकों of marine travel, often हत्या large संख्याएँ of the passengers और क्रू on long-distance voyages.
This became a significant समस्या in Europe इससे the beginning of the modern era in the Age of Discovery in the 15th century, continuing to play a significant role through World War i in the 20th century.
While today scurvy is ज्ञात to be caused by a nutritional कमियां, until the अलगाव of विटामिन c और direct प्रमाण of its link to स्कर्वी in 1932, numerous theories और उपचार यहूद प्रस्तावित, often on little or no प्रायोगिक data.
इस inconsistency is attributed to the lack of विटामिन c as a distinct अवधारणा, an अक्षमता to reliably link different foods ( notably present in भैस citrus, watercress, और अंग मांस ) to स्कर्वी.
an अतिरिक्त concept जरूरी to understand scurvy was the degradation of विटामिन C by exposure to air और तांबे और अन्य परिवर्तन मेटल salts such as those of आयरन, thus changing the कड़ी of भोजन to स्कर्वी over समय.
Treatment by भैस food, विशेषकर citrus fruit, was periodically implemented, as it था been चूंकि प्राचीनता.
However until the 1930s, treatment थी inconsistent, with many अप्रभावी treatments प्रयुक्त into the 20th सदी.
it was a Scottish surgeon in the royal Navy, जेम्स Lind who first proved it could be treated with citrus fruit in प्रयोग he described in his 1753 book, a Treatise of the Scurvy, though उसके सलाह थी नहीं implemented by the Royal नेवी for अनेक decades.
in infants, स्कर्वी is sometimes referred to as barlow 's disease, named बाद Sir Thomas barlow, a British physician who वर्णित it.
However, Barlow 's disease may भी refer to mitral वाल्व prolapse.
Other eponyms for स्कर्वी शामिल Moeller 's disease और cheadle 's बीमारी.
स्कर्वी करता not occur in सबसे पशु क्युकी they can synthesize उनके own विटामिन C.
however, humans और other उच्चतर primates ( the simians - monkeys और apes - and tarsiers ), guinea सूअर, most or all bats, and कुछ species of birds and fish lack an enzyme ( L-gulonolactone oxidase ) necessary for ऐसे संश्लेषण and must obtain विटामिन c through उनके diet.
विटामिन c is widespread in संयंत्र ऊतकों, with विशेषकर high concentrations occurring in citrus फल ( oranges, lemons, limes, grapefruits ), टमाटर, potatoes, cabbages, और ग्रीन peppers.
आयरन is a chemical element with the symbol Fe ( from ) and atomic number 26.
It is a metal in the first परिवर्तन series.
it is the most common तत्व ( by द्रव्यमान ) forming the ग्रह Earth as a whole, forming much of धरती 's बाहरी and inner core.
it is the fourth most common element in the Earth 's क्रस्ट.
Iron 's very common presence in rocky ग्रह like धरती is due to its abundant उत्पादन as a परिणाम of संलयन in high-mass stars, where the production of nickel-56 ( which decays to the most common isotope of iron ) is the पिछला nuclear संलयन reaction that is ऊष्माक्षेपी.
इस causes रेडियोसक्रिय निकल to become the last element to be produced before collapse of a supernova लीड to the explosive events that scatter this precursor radionuclide of iron abundantly into space.
Like other group 8 तत्व, आयरन exists in a wide range of oxidation राज्य, −2 to +6, हालांकि +2 and +3 हैं the most common.
elemental iron occurs in meteoroids and other कम oxygen environments, but is reactive to ऑक्सीजन और water.
भैस iron सतहों appear lustrous silvery-gray, but oxidize in normal एयर to give hydrated आयरन आक्साइड, commonly ज्ञात as चढ़.
नापसंद many other metals जिससे रूप passivating ऑक्साइड परतों, iron oxides occupy more आवाज़ than iron metal, और thus आयरन oxides फ्लेक off and expose fresh सतहों for संक्षारण.
आयरन metal has been used चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स, हालांकि copper alloys, जिससे have lower melting temperatures, यहूद प्रयुक्त पहला in इतिहास.
pure आयरन is soft ( softer than एल्युमिनियम ), but is unobtainable by smelting.
The सामग्री is significantly hardened and strengthened by impurities इससे the smelting process, ऐसे as carbon.
a certain proportion of carbon ( between 0.002 % और 2.1 % ) produces steel, which may be up to 1000 times harder than pure iron.
Crude आयरन metal is produced in blast furnaces, where ore is घटाया by coke to pig iron, which has a high carbon content.
Further refinement with oxygen reduces the carbon content to the correct proportion to make स्टील.
Steels and low carbon iron alloys with अन्य धातुओं ( alloy steels ) हैं by far the most common धातुओं in industrial उपयोग, due to their ग्रेट दायरा of वांछनीय properties and the abundance of iron.
Iron chemical compounds, which include अमिश्रित and ferric compounds, have अनेक uses.
Iron oxide मिश्रित साथ एल्युमिनियम powder can be ignited to बनाएँ a thermite reaction, used in welding और purifying ores.
It फ़ॉर्म शब्दकोष compounds with the halogens और the chalcogens.
Among इसके organometallic यौगिकों is ferrocene, the पहला सैंडविच यौगिक discovered.
Iron plays an important role in जीवविज्ञान, forming complexes साथ molecular ऑक्सीजन in हीमोग्लोबिन and myoglobin ; these two यौगिकों are common ऑक्सीजन हस्तांतरण प्रोटीन in vertebrates.
Iron is भी the metal used at the क्रियाशील site of अनेक महत्वपूर्ण रेडॉक्स enzymes dealing with cellular respiration and ऑक्सीकरण और reduction in plants और animals.
The Blue क्रॉस Blue Shield Association ( bcbsa ) is a federation of 38 separate health बीमे organizations और कंपनियाँ in the संयुक्त States.
संयुक्त, they directly or indirectly provide health insurance to over 99 million Americans.
The history of Blue Cross तिथियाँ वापस to 1929, जबकि the history of ब्लू Shield तिथियाँ to 1939.
the Blue Cross संघ dates वापस to 1960, while इसके Blue Shield बंटवारा was created in 1948.
the two संगठन merged in 1982, forming the current association.
a potato chip ( known as a chip in अमरीकी, Australian, New Zealand, Canadian, Singaporean, Hong काँग, दक्षिण African and Jamaican English ; as a crisp in अंग्रेजों English और Hiberno-English, और as either a chip or wafer in भारतीय English ) is a thin टुकड़ा of potato that is गहन fried or baked until crunchy.
आलू चिप्स हैं commonly served as an appetizer, पक्ष डिश, or snack.
The मौलिक chips are cooked and salted ; additional किस्में हैं manufactured using विभिन्न flavorings और संघटक सहित seasonings, herbs, spices, cheeses, और artificial एडिटिव.
`` Crisps '', however, may भी refer to many अलग प्रकार of savory snack उत्पाद sold in the United Kingdom और आयरलैंड, some बना इससे आलू, but may also be made from मक्का, tapioca or अन्य cereals.
An example of these kinds of savory स्नैक्स is Monster Munch.
आलू chips हैं a predominant भाग of the snack खाना market in English-speaking देशों और numerous other Western nations.
The global potato चिप market उत्पन्न total revenues of us $ 16.4 billion in 2005.
इस accounted for 35.5 % of the कुल savory snacks मार्केट in that year ( US $ 46.1 billion ).
Henry Clay, sr. ( April 12, 1777 – जून 29, 1852 ) थी a lawyer, politician and skilled orator जो represented केंटकी in दोनो the सीनेट और in the House of Representatives.
he served three अलग शर्तें as Speaker of the संयुक्त राज्य House of प्रतिनिधि and was भी Secretary of State from 1825 to 1829.
He खोया उसके campaigns for अध्यक्ष in 1824, 1832 and 1844.
Clay was a dominant figure in दोनो the पहला और दूसरी Party systems.
As a अग्रणी war hawk in 1812, he favored युद्ध with Britain और played a significant role in leading the स्वदेश to war in the युद्ध of 1812.
in 1824 he भागा लिये president and खोया, but फेंका his चुनावी votes to John क्विंसी Adams, who बना him secretary of राज्य as the jacksonians denounced what they considered a `` corrupt सौदेबाजी. ''
He ran and lost again in 1832 and 1844 as the प्रत्याशी of the Whig Party, जिससे he founded and usually dominated.
Clay was the foremost proponent of the American System, fighting for an increase in tariffs to foster उद्योग in the संयुक्त States, the use of federal funding to निर्माण and maintain infrastructure, और a strong national bank.
He opposed the annexation of Texas, fearing it would inject the slavery समस्या into राजनीती.
मिट्टी भी opposed the mexican-american War and the `` manifest Destiny `` नीति of Democrats, which cost him votes in the बंद 1844 election.
उतावले the `` Great pacificator, '' Clay brokered important compromises दौरान the Nullification संकट and on the slavery issue.
As भाग of the `` Great Triumvirate `` or `` अमर Trio, '' साथ with his colleagues डेनियल वेबस्टर और John C. calhoun, he was इंस्ट्रूमेंटल in formulating the Missouri सुलह of 1820 and the सुलह of 1850.
he was viewed as the प्राथमिक representative of पश्चिमी interests in this group, and was given the names `` Henry of the West '' और `` the Western स्टार. ''
A plantation मालिक, मिट्टी held slaves during उसके lifetime but freed उन्हें in his होगा.
Abraham Lincoln, the whig leader in इलिनोइस, was a ग्रेट admirer of Clay, saying he थी `` my ideal of a great man. ''
Lincoln wholeheartedly समर्थित Clay 's economic programs.
In 1957, a सीनेट Committee selected Clay as one of the five महानतम u.s. Senators, साथ with Daniel Webster, John C. Calhoun, रॉबर्ट La follette, and Robert Taft.
bj 's Wholesale Club, inc., commonly referred to simply as BJ 's, is a membership-only गोदाम club chain ऑपरेटिंग on the United States East Coast, as खूब as in the state of Ohio.
The company is क्रमित # 232 on सौभाग्य magazine 's 2010 लिस्टिंग of अमेरिका 's 500 largest public corporations.
the Wizard of oz, known दौरान his reign as The ग्रेट and Powerful Oz, is the epithet of Oscar Zoroaster Phadrig Isaac Norman Henkel Emmannuel Ambroise Diggs, a fictional अक्षर in the जमीन of oz, निर्मित by अमरीकी लेखक L. Frank Baum.
The character was further popularized by the classic 1939 movie, wherein his पूरा name is not उल्लेखित.
kristinia Jamie DeBarge ( ; born कूच 8, 1990 ) is an American सिंगर, songwriter, dancer and अभिनेत्री.
वो first appeared on नेशनल television in 2003 as a contestant on the American आइडल spin-off, American Juniors.
in 2009, DeBarge हस्ताक्षरित a contract साथ the द्वीप Records department sodapop, releasing her debut एल्बम Exposed in जुलाई of the वही year.
The पहला single, `` अलविदा ``, पहुँचे the शीर्ष 20 in the us और कनाडा.
the सीसे सिंगल ( `` Cry भेड़िया '' ) इससे उसके untitled sophomore एल्बम थी released on सितंबर 27, 2012.
The Hawaii योद्धाओं football team represents the University of hawaiʻi at Mānoa in ncaa Division i FBS college football.
The team is coached by norm Chow.
It थी भाग of the Western Athletic Conference until July 2012, when the टोली joined the Mountain वेस्ट सम्मेलन.
The Hawaii Warriors were the third non-AQ team to खेल in a bcs कटोरी game ; losing to Georgia 41–10 in the Sugar Bowl on January 1, 2008 in New ऑरलियन्स, Louisiana.
Marvin gaye ( अप्रैल 2, 1939April 1, 1984 ), born Marvin pentz Gay, Jr., थी an अमरीकी singer-songwriter and संगीतकार.
Gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown रिकॉर्ड in the 1960s with a string of हिट्स सहित `` कैसा Sweet It Is ( To Be loved By You ) `` और `` i सुना it Through the Grapevine `` and duet recordings with Mary कुएं और tammi Terrell, बाद कमाई the titles `` Prince of Motown '' और `` Prince of आत्मा ''.
दौरान the 1970s, Gaye recorded the concept albums कया 's going On and let 's Get It On and became among the पहला कलाकारों in motown to break away from the reins of its उत्पादन company.
Gaye 's later recordings influenced several R & B subgenres ऐसे as शांत तूफ़ान and neo-soul.
Following a काल in यूरोपीय अंतर्गत a कर exile in the early 1980s, gaye released the 1982 Grammy award-winning hit `` Sexual Healing `` और the Midnight प्रेम album.
चूंकि his death in 1984, Gaye has been posthumously honored by many institutions, सहित the ग्रैमी Lifetime उपलब्धि Award और the Rock and फेंकें Hall of Fame.
Location of Chernobyl nuclear power plant
the abandoned city of Pripyat with chernobyl plant in the distance
Abandoned housing ब्लॉक in Pripyat
The chernobyl disaster (, chornobylska katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) थी a अनर्थकारी नाभिकीय accident that occurred on 26 अप्रैल 1986 at the chernobyl नाभिकीय Power संयंत्र in Ukraine ( then officially the Ukrainian SSR ), which was अंतर्गत the सीधा क्षेत्राधिकार of the central अधिकारियों of the सोवियत Union.
An विस्फोट and fire released large quantities of radioactive अणु into the माहौल, which स्प्रेड over much of the western USSR और Europe.
The chernobyl विपत्ति is widely considered to have महरूम the worst नाभिकीय शक्ति plant दुर्घटना in history, और is एक of only दो वर्गीकृत as a level 7 event on the International नाभिकीय Event Scale ( the other होने the फुकुशिमा Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 ).
the बैटल to contain the contamination और avert a वृहद प्रलय ultimately शामिल over 500,000 workers और लागत an अनुमानित 18 billion rubles.
the आधिकारिक Soviet casualty count of 31 मौतों has been disputed, और long-term प्रभाव such as cancers and deformities हैं still being accounted for.
mrs. Claus says goodbye to her husband as he sets बंद on his journey in इस 1919 postcard
Mrs. क्लॉस is the wife of Santa क्लॉस, the Christmas gift-bringer in North American और यूरोपीय क्रिसमस tradition.
She is known for बनाना cookies with the elves और preparing toys with her husband सांता Claus.
Her first name is a mystery, though she has been referred to as Mary, जेसिका, layla, Annette, Heidi, or Martha.
HijackThis ( भी hijackthis or HJT ) is an open source enumerating tool लिये microsoft खिड़कियाँ originally created by Merijn Bellekom, and बाद sold to Trend Micro.
the program is notable लिये targeting browser-hijacking विधि, rather than relying on a database of ज्ञात spyware.
It scans a उपयोक्ता 's computer जल्दी, and प्रदर्शक ब्राउजर hijacking locations, showing what entries हैं वहीँ.
HijackThis is प्रयुक्त primarily for निदान of ब्राउजर hijacking, as uninformed उपयोग of its removal facilities can कारण significant तन्त्र damage to a कंप्यूटर.
HijackThis करता नहीं हटाएँ or detect spyware ; it सूचियाँ most आम locations where ब्राउजर hijacking कार्यकलाप can occur.
ब्राउजर hijacking can cause मैलवेयर to be installed on a कंप्यूटर.
On फ़रवरी 16, 2012, Trend सूक्ष्म released the HijackThis source code as open सोर्स and it is now available on the SourceForge साईट.
Saddle क्रीक Records is an American रिकार्ड लेबल based in ओमाहा, Nebraska.
प्रारंभ as a college class project on entrepreneurship, the label थी founded by माइक Mogis और जस्टिन Oberst in 1993 ( as Lumberjack रिकॉर्ड ).
mogis soon turned over his role in the company to robb nansel.
The label is नामित बाद Saddle Creek Road, a street that cuts through the east side of midtown Omaha, and the beginnings of a झाँकी जिनकी सदस्यों शामिल conor Oberst ( then a solo कलाकार, currently of Bright Eyes, Conor Oberst और the रहस्यवादी Valley Band, Desaparecidos and Monsters of लोक ), टिम Kasher ( then of Slowdown Virginia, फिलहाल of Cursive and the Good Life ), and others.
collectively, they were known unofficially as the `` creekers ''.
Saddle Creek first appeared in print on a दिखाएँ flyer, offering to `` खर्च an evening साथ काठी Creek '' ( later to be the शीर्षक of the label 's dvd. )
काठी Creek became an incorporated एंटिटी as a result of a class project on entrepreneurship.
Distribution is संभाला by the Alternative Distribution Alliance, which is अंतर्गत the Warner Music Group छतरियाँ.
काठी क्रीक Records continues to be the फ्लैगशिप लेबल of a style of म्यूज़िक called `` the Omaha Sound ``, characterized by a पतला देश twang.
This is increasingly inaccurate, हालांकि, साथ the rise of more electronic sounds ऐसे as those favored by The faint and Broken Spindles.
The eclectic sounds of Saddle Creek 's disparate member bands is somewhat explained by their इतिहास ; a number of the original सदस्यों of the label attended grade school together.
a `` sister लेबल '', of sorts, to काठी Creek is Team प्रेम, started by conor Oberst in 2004.
the label opened arms to their first bands not आधारित in ओमाहा in 2001 with releases by Now it 's ओवरहेड और Sorry About Dresden.
Other non-Nebraskan artists followed, including लॉस Angeles 's Rilo kiley, eric Bachmann ( formerly नेता of archers of Loaf और Crooked Fingers from उत्तर कैरोलिना ), georgie James ( Washington D.C. ), Two Gallants ( San फ्रांसिस्को ), और सबसे recently Tokyo पुलिस Club ( टोरंटो ).
In 2005, खर्च an संध्या साथ Saddle क्रीक, a documentary detailing the first ten years of the रिकार्ड label 's history, was released.
the dvd features extensive interviews साथ the काठी Creek bands, archival फुटेज, and rare सजीव performances.
on जून 8, 2007, the लेबल opened उनके own music स्थान named Slowdown ( बाद the group slowdown Virginia ), स्तिथ in downtown Omaha, Nebraska.
The following is a सूची of episodes for the television show Full हाउस.
In total, वहीँ were 192 episodes फिल्माया for the दिखाएँ over the कोर्स of its आठ seasons, from 1987 to 1995.
Full House is a हालात कॉमेडी which chronicles a widowed पिता 's struggles of उठाने his three young बेटियां और the lives that वे have छुआ.
The patriarch of the family, Danny ( bob saget ), invites his brother-in-law Jesse ( जॉन stamos ) and his बेहतरीन dost Joey ( Dave coulier ), to help raise his children ( candace Cameron, jodie sweetin, and Mary Kate/Ashley Olsen ), बाद his wife थी killed during an automobile दुर्घटना involving a drunk driver.
After episodes 88 and 89, जेसी marries बेकी ( Lori loughlin ), and वे मूव into the अटारी.
तब, after एपीसोड 104 and 105, बेकी and Jesse have जुड़वा लड़कों named Nicky and Alex ( डेनियल और केविन Renteria/Blake and Dylan Tuomy-Wilhoit ).
The श्रेणी ends with episode 192, `` मिशेल यात्राएँ again Part 2 '', when Michelle loses उसके memory and the परिवार tries to restore it.
Notice of स्टैम्प अधिनियम of 1765 in Newspaper
American अखबारों reacted to the स्टैम्प Act साथ गुस्सा and predictions of the demise of journalism.
The Stamp Act 1765 ( छोटी title कर्तव्य in American Colonies Act 1765 ; 5 George III, c. 12 ) imposed a सीधा tax by the अंग्रेजों पार्लियामेंट specifically on the colonies of British अमेरिका, and it जरूरी कि many printed सामग्री in the colonies be produced on stamped paper उत्पादित in लंदन, carrying an embossed revenue stamp.
ये मुद्रित सामग्री were legal दस्तावेज़, मैगज़ीन, अखबारों और अनेक other types of paper used throughout the colonies.
Like पिछला taxes, the stamp कर had to be सशुल्क in मान्य अंग्रेजों करेंसी, not in colonial पेपर money.
The purpose of the tax थी to help अदा for troops stationed in North अमेरिका after the अंग्रेजों विजय in the सात Years ' युद्ध.
The British government लगा that the colonies यहूद the primary beneficiaries of this military presence, और चाहिए pay at least a portion of the expense.
The स्टैम्प Act met ग्रेट resistance in the colonies.
The colonies भेजा no representatives to Parliament, और therefore था no influence over कया कर were उठाया, how they यहूद levied, or how they would be spent.
Many colonists माना it a violation of उनके rights as Englishmen to be taxed without उनके consent —consent कि तभी the औपनिवेशिक legislatures could ग्रान्ट.
औपनिवेशिक सभाओं sent petitions and विरोध.
The स्टैम्प Act कॉंग्रेस आयोजित in New यॉर्क City, reflecting the पहला significant joint colonial जवाब to कोई अंग्रेजों माप, also petitioned पार्लियामेंट और the King.
Local विरोध समूह, led by colonial merchants and landowners, स्थापित connections through पत्राचार कि निर्मित a ढीला coalition कि extended from New England to Georgia.
Protests and demonstrations initiated by the बेटे of Liberty often turned हिंसक and destructive as the masses became involved.
Very जल्द all stamp कर distributors were सहमे into resigning उनके commissions, and the tax थी never effectively collected.
Opposition to the Stamp Act थी not सीमित to the colonies.
British merchants and manufacturers, whose exports to the colonies यहूद threatened by colonial आर्थिक समस्याएं exacerbated by the tax, also pressured Parliament.
the अधिनियम थी repealed on कूच 18, 1766 as a matter of expedience, लकिन Parliament affirmed इसके शक्ति to legislate for the colonies “in सब मामले whatsoever” by भी passing the declaratory Act.
वहीँ followed a श्रेणी of नई taxes और regulations, likewise opposed by the colonists.
The episode played a प्रमुख role in defining the grievances and enabling the organized colonial प्रतिरोध that led to the American Revolution in 1775.
PT-105 underway.
PT boats were a variety of torpedo-armed fast आक्रमण craft used by the संयुक्त States Navy in संसार युद्ध ii to attack larger सतह ships.
`` PT '' is the us hull वर्गीकरण symbol लिये `` Patrol Torpedo ''.
The PT नाव squadrons यहूद nicknamed `` the मच्छर fleet ''.
The Japanese called उन्हें `` शैतान नौकाएँ ''.
The original pre– World War i torpedo नौकाएँ यहूद designed with `` displacement '' hulls.
They विस्थापित up to 300 tons and the top speed was.
The pt boats प्रयुक्त in संसार War II were निर्मित using the planing -type हल रूप developed लिये racing boats.
वे यहूद much smaller ( 30–75 tons ) and faster ( 35–40 knots ).
Both types were designed to strike at larger warships with torpedoes, using relatively ऊँची speed to get बंद, and small size to avoid होने spotted और hit by gunfire.
वे were much less महंगी than large warships.
PT boats यहूद much तेज़, छोटी, and सस्ता than conventional ( displacement हल ) बरतन.
During World War II, American PT boats engaged enemy destroyers और numerous अन्य surface craft, ranging इससे small boats to विशाल supply जहाजों.
PT boats also संचालित as gunboats against दुश्मन छोटी craft, ऐसे as armored barges used by the जापानी forces लिये inter-island transport.
Good शुक्रवार is a धार्मिक holiday observed primarily by ईसाइयों commemorating the crucifixion of यीशु मसीह और उसके मौत at Calvary.
the holiday is observed during Holy Week as भाग of the paschal Triduum on the शुक्रवार preceding ईस्टर Sunday, and may coincide साथ the Jewish observance of Passover.
It is also known as पावन Friday, ग्रेट Friday, Black Friday, or Easter Friday, हालांकि the latter properly refers to the शुक्रवार in Easter सप्ताह.
Based on the details of the canonical gospels, the crucifixion of Jesus थी most संभावित to have been on a Friday ( the day पहले the sabbath ) ( ).
The अनुमानित साल of the crucifixion is ad 33, by two अलग groups, and originally as ad 34 by इसहाक़ Newton via the मतभेद between the Biblical and जूलियन calendars and the crescent of the चंद्रमा.
A third method, using a completely different astronomical approach आधारित on a lunar Crucifixion darkness and ग्रहण model ( सतत साथ Apostle Peter 's reference to a `` moon of blood '' in Acts 2:20 ), अंक to शुक्रवार, 3 April AD 33.
The Great Basin is the largest area of endorheic watersheds in उत्तर अमेरिका.
It is विख्यात for both its arid शर्तें और its Basin and range topography that varies from the North अमरीकी कम point at Badwater Basin to the उच्चतम पाइंट of the संलग्न United States, less than दूर at the समिट of माउंट Whitney.
The region spans अनेक physiographic divisions, biomes / ecoregions, and रेगिस्तान.
रास्टर may refer to:
Raster ग्राफिक्स, आलेखीय techniques using arrays of पिक्सेल values
रास्टर graphics editor, a computer program
रास्टर scan, the pattern of चित्र readout, हस्तांतरण, भंडार, और reconstruction in television और कंप्यूटर images
Rasterisation, or rasterization, conversion of a vector चित्र to a raster image
Raster image प्रोसेसर, or RIP, a घटक of a मुद्रण system that performs rasterisation
Raster इन्टरनेट, a computer interrupt signal
Raster to वेक्टर, an चित्र conversion process
Raster bar, an effect प्रयुक्त in कंप्यूटर demos
Raster-Noton, a रिकार्ड label
Rastrum, a यंत्र प्रयुक्त in मध्यकालीन म्यूज़िक manuscripts to draw staff lines
Raster Document Object, a संचिका format
Beowulf ( ; Old English : ) is a legendary Geatish नायिका और later turned king in the epic poem नामित after उसे, एक of the oldest surviving टुकड़े of literature in the English language.
the attack on Pearl हार्बर ( called Hawaii आपरेशन or आपरेशन ai by the जापानी Imperial सामान्य Headquarters ( Operation Z in planning ) and the Battle of पर्ल हार्बर ) was a surprise सैन्य strike conducted by the इम्पीरियल जापानी नेवी against the United States naval base at पर्ल हार्बर, Hawaii, on the morning of December 7, 1941 ( दिसम्बर 8 in Japan ).
From the standpoint of the defenders, the आक्रमण commenced at 7:48 a.m. हवाई समय.
The आक्रमण थी intended as a निवारक action in अनुक्रम to keep the u.S. प्रशांत बेड़े इससे interfering with military actions the Empire of जापानी was planning in Southeast एशिया against विदेशी territories of the संयुक्त Kingdom, the Netherlands, and the United States.
the base थी attacked by 353 जापानी सेनानी, bombers और torpedo planes in two waves, शुभारम्भ from six aircraft carriers.
सब आठ u.S. Navy battleships were damaged, with चार होने sunk.
दो of ये were later raised, and साथ the remaining four repaired, छह battleships returned to सेवा later in the युद्ध.
The जापानी also sank or क्षतिग्रस्त three cruisers, three destroyers, an anti-aircraft training जलयान, और एक minelayer.
188 U.S. aircraft were नष्ट ; 2,402 Americans were मारे और 1,282 wounded.
Important आधार installations such as the शक्ति स्टेशन, shipyard, maintenance, और fuel और torpedo storage facilities, as well as the पनडुब्बी piers and headquarters भवन ( भी home of the प्रज्ञा section ) यहूद not attacked.
Japanese नुकसान were light : 29 वायुयान और पाँच midget submarines lost, और 65 servicemen killed or wounded.
One Japanese sailor थी captured.
The attack आए as a profound शॉक to the American लोगों और led directly to the अमरीकी प्रविष्टि into संसार War II in दोनो the प्रशांत and यूरोपीय थिएटर.
The following दिन ( December 8 ), the संयुक्त राज्य घोषित युद्ध on जापानी.
Domestic support लिये non-interventionism, which था been दमदार, disappeared.
Clandestine support of ब्रिटेन ( for उदाहरण the neutrality Patrol ) थी replaced by active alliance.
subsequent परिचालन by the U.S. prompted जर्मनी and इटली to declare युद्ध on the U.S. on December 11, which was reciprocated by the u.S. the same day.
There were numerous historical precedents लिये unannounced military action by जापानी.
However, the lack of any formal warning, particularly while negotiations were still apparently ongoing, led अध्यक्ष Franklin D. रूज़वेल्ट to proclaim दिसम्बर 7, 1941, `` a तिथि जिससे होगा सजीव in infamy ``.
u.S. Route 85 ( US 85 ) is a north–south संयुक्त States highway कि रनों for in the पहाड़ - उत्तरी Plains राज्य of the संयुक्त राज्य.
The southern terminus of the रूट is at the United states-mexico border in El पासो, टेक्सास, connecting with मैक्सिकन Federal Highway 45.
The northern terminus is at the United States-Canada किनारा in Fortuna, उत्तर Dakota, जहाँ the रूट continues उत्तर as saskatchewan Highway 35.
in both the United States and saskatchewan, कनाडा the रूट is known as the CanAm Highway.
Sections of US 85 are considered भाग of the Theodore Roosevelt Expressway.
The United States presidential election of 1968 was the 46th quadrennial presidential चुनाव, held on Tuesday, नवम्बर 5, 1968.
The रिपब्लिकन nominee, पूर्व Vice-President Richard Nixon, जीती the election over the लोकतांत्रिक nominee, incumbent Vice-President Hubert Humphrey.
Nixon भागा on a campaign that promised to restore law and order to the स्वदेश 's cities, torn by riots और crime.
Analysts have argued the चुनाव of 1968 is a realigning चुनाव as it permanently disrupted the नई Deal Coalition कि had वर्चस्व अध्यक्षीय politics लिये 36 years.
coming four years बाद डेमोक्रेट Lyndon B. जॉनसन जीती in a ऐतिहासिक landslide, the चुनाव saw the incumbent अध्यक्ष forced out of the रेस and a रिपब्लिकन निर्वाचित for the first time in twelve सालो.
It थी a विदारक national अनुभव, conducted during a year of violence कि शामिल the हत्या of सिविल rights leader मार्टिन लूथर King, Jr., and subsequent race दंगे across the nation, the assasination of Democratic presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy, widespread opposition to the Vietnam War across विश्वविद्यालयों campuses, और हिंसक confrontations between police और anti-war protesters at the 1968 Democratic नेशनल Convention as the Democratic party split again and again.
the चुनाव featured the strongest तीसरा party effort चूंकि 1912 by पूर्व Alabama Governor George वालेस, a Democrat.
क्युकी Wallace 's campaign opposed federal हस्तक्षेप in the South to समाप्त स्कूल segregation, he carried the Deep South and ran खूब in जातीय industrial districts in the North.
This was the last चुनाव in which New York had the सबसे मत in the चुनावी college ( 43 मत ).
बाद the 1970 census, कैलिफ़ोर्निया gained the most electoral votes and has remained the सबसे populous state since then.
This is the latest चुनाव where a presidential ticket जीती without carrying the vice अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी 's घर state.
खिड़कियाँ कार्य Manager is a task manager or System monitor application शामिल साथ the microsoft खिड़कियाँ NT family of operating systems that provides limited सूचना about कंप्यूटर performance और running अनुप्रयोग, processes और CPU usage, commit charge and memory information, network activity and आंकडे, logged-in users, और system services ( and as often is the case with तन्त्र टूल्स provided by microsoft for Windows, 3rd पार्टी software is available which fills the आवश्यकताएँ अधिक thoroughly, e.g, `` Process Explorer '', `` विस्तारित Task मैनेजर '', `` Anvir कार्य मैनेजर '', `` Process Hacker '', and `` प्रणाली Explorer '' ).
the कार्य Manager can also be used to set process priorities, प्रोसेसर affinity, forcibly terminate प्रक्रियाओं, and shut down, restart, hibernate or log बंद from खिड़कियाँ.
Windows कार्य मैनेजर was introduced with खिड़कियाँ NT 4.0.
पिछला संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ nt शामिल the कार्य List अनुप्रयोग, जिससे था far कम सुविधाएँ.
The task list was सक्षम of listing currently running processes and killing them, or creating a new process.
In Windows XP only, a Shutdown menu is also उपस्थित कि allows access to Standby, Hibernate, फेरे off, restart, Log Off and स्विच उपयोक्ता.
पहले versions of Microsoft खिड़कियाँ ( Microsoft Windows 3.x, Windows 95, Windows 98 ) था a कार्यक्रम ज्ञात as कार्य to display the कार्यक्रम फिलहाल running.
This संचिका was executed by running the taskman.exe file from the c : \खिड़कीs निर्देशिका.
Kanji ( ; ) are the adopted logographic Chinese characters ( hanzi ) कि are used in the आधुनिक जापानी लिखने system along साथ hiragana ( ひらがな, ), katakana ( カタカナ, ), Hindu-Arabic numerals, और the occasional उपयोग of the लैटिन वर्णमाला.
The Japanese term kanji ( ) for the Chinese characters वस्तुतः means `` Han characters '' और is written using the same वर्ण as the Chinese hanzi ( ).
John R Williams ( may 4, 1782 – अक्तूबर 20, 1854 ) was an American soldier, व्यापारी, and राजनेता who is most well known लिये serving as the पहला महापौर of Detroit, Michigan.
In कुल, he served as Detroit 's महापौर लिये पाँच other terms.
He also was a brigadier सामान्य in the United राज्य Army during the Black हॉक युद्ध.
A simple dry चुम्बकीय पोर्टेबल कम्पास.
A स्मार्टफोन that can be used as a compass because of the magnetometer अंदर.
An iPhone that can be used as a geological कम्पास क्युकी of the 3-axis teslameter और 3-axis accelerometer inside it
A सैन्य compass that was used during संसार युद्ध i.
a कम्पास is a navigational यंत्र कि shows directions in a फ़्रेम of reference कि is stationary relative to the सतह of the earth.
the frame of reference defines the चार कार्डिनल directions ( or अंक ) – north, दक्षिण, east, और west.
Intermediate directions हैं भी defined.
प्रायः, a आरेख called a कम्पास रोज़, जिससे shows the दिशानिर्देश ( साथ their names प्रायः abbreviated to initials ), is marked on the कम्पास.
When the compass is in उपयोग, the rose is लकीर साथ the real directions in the फ़्रेम of reference, so, for example, the `` n '' mark on the rose वाकई points to the उत्तर.
अक्सर, in addition to the rose or sometimes instead of it, कोण markings in डिग्री are shown on the कम्पास.
उत्तर corresponds to शून्य डिग्री, and the angles बढ़ाएँ clockwise, so ईस्ट is 90 degrees, south is 180, और वेस्ट is 270.
ये numbers allow the कम्पास to show azimuths or बियरिंग, which are commonly stated in इस संकेतन.
The magnetic compass थी पहला invented as a यंत्र लिये divination as early as the Chinese Han राजवंश ( चूंकि about 206 BC ).
The compass was प्रयुक्त in Song Dynasty चीन by the military लिये navigational orienteering by 1040-1044, और थी used लिये maritime navigation by 1111 to 1117.
the use of a compass is recorded in पश्चिमी Europe between 1187 and 1202, and in Persia in 1232.
the dry compass was invented in Europe around 1300.
This थी supplanted in the early 20th century by the liquid-filled magnetic कम्पास.
The Inca साम्राज्य or Inka Empire ( quechua : tawantinsuyu ) थी the largest साम्राज्य in pre-Columbian अमेरिका.
the administrative, राजनैतिक और military center of the empire was located in Cusco in modern-day Peru.
The इन्का civilization arose from the हाइलैंड्स of Peru sometime in the early 13th सदी.
From 1438 to 1533, the incas used a किस्में of विधि, from conquest to शांतिपूर्ण assimilation, to incorporate a large portion of पश्चिमी South अमेरिका, केन्द्रित on the Andean mountain ranges, including, besides Peru, विशाल भाग of modern इक्वाडोर, western और दक्षिण central बोलीविया, northwest Argentina, north और central चिली, और दक्षिणी Colombia into a state comparable to the historical empires of Eurasia.
The official language of the साम्राज्य was quechua, हालांकि सैंकड़ों of लोकल भाषाएं और dialects of quechua यहूद spoken.
the इन्का referred to उनके empire as Tawantinsuyu which can be अनूदित as the Four regions or The Four United Provinces.
There were अनेक local forms of worship, सबसे of उन्हें concerning local sacred `` Huacas ``, but the इन्का leadership encouraged the worship of Inti —the सूर्य god—and imposed इसके प्रभुता above other cults such as कि of Pachamama.
The incas considered their King, the Sapa Inca, to be the `` child of the sun. ''
the गुर्दे हैं organs कि serve अनेक essential regulatory भूमिकाएँ in most animals, including vertebrates and some invertebrates.
वे हैं essential in the urinary प्रणाली और also serve homeostatic कृत्यों such as the regulation of इलेक्ट्रोलाइट्स, maintenance of acid–base balance, and विनियमन of blood दबाव ( via maintaining salt and जल संतुलन ).
They serve the body as a natural filter of the blood, and हटाएँ wastes जिससे हैं diverted to the urinary bladder.
In producing urine, the kidneys excrete wastes such as यूरिया और ammonium, and वे are भी जिम्मेदार लिये the reabsorption of जल, glucose, and amino acids.
The kidneys भी उपज हार्मोन including calcitriol, erythropoietin, और the enzyme renin.
Located at the rear of the abdominal cavity in the retroperitoneum, the kidneys receive blood इससे the paired renal धमनियों, and drain into the paired renal रगों.
Each kidney excretes मूत्र into a ureter, itself a paired structure कि empties into the urinary ब्लैडर.
renal physiology is the पढ़ाई of गुर्दा फलन, while nephrology is the चिकित्सा specialty concerned साथ kidney diseases.
रोगों of the kidney are विविध, लकिन individuals with गुर्दा बीमारी frequently प्रदर्शक characteristic नैदानिक features.
आम clinical conditions involving the kidney include the nephritic और nephrotic syndromes, renal cysts, acute गुर्दा injury, chronic kidney disease, urinary tract infection, nephrolithiasis, and urinary ट्रैक्ट obstruction.
विभिन्न cancers of the गुर्दा exist ; the most आम adult renal cancer is renal cell carcinoma.
Cancers, cysts, and some other renal conditions can be managed with removal of the kidney, or nephrectomy.
When renal function, measured by glomerular filtration rate, is persistently poor, डायलिसिस and गुर्दा प्रत्यारोपण may be उपचार options.
हालांकि वे हैं not severely harmful, kidney पत्थरों can be दुखद और a nuisance.
The हटाना of गुर्दा पत्थरों involves अल्ट्रासाउंड उपचार to break up the पत्थरों into smaller टुकड़े, which are तब passed through the urinary tract.
One आम symptom of गुर्दा पत्थरों is a sharp pain in the medial/lateral खण्ड of the lower back.
Lockton कंपनियाँ inc. is the संसार 's largest privately आयोजित बीमे brokerage firm, providing insurance, रिस्क management और employee benefits solutions.
In addition to its Kansas नगर, मिसौरी headquarters, Lockton operates 60 locations in 17 countries.
Lockton is currently घर to अधिक than 4,450 शरीक worldwide.
the company थी founded by जोकर lockton in 1966 and has चूंकि become the world’s 9th largest insurance brokerage firm.
lockton serves a चौड़ी सरणी of industries with services कि शामिल रिस्क management, casualty, surety, पेशेवर indemnity और अधिक.
For 46 सालो, Lockton posted extraordinary organic growth, साथ global revenues reaching $ 915 लाख in फिस्कल 2012.
lockton Benefits समूह : Lockton’s कर्मचारी benefit’s टोली works closely with बीमे carriers and administrators to create व्यापक and integrated लाभ strategies लिये क्लाइंट.
The lockton Benefits Group provides services including compliance, executive लाभ, health and welfare, स्वास्थ्य रिस्क solutions, retirement and अधिक.
Lockton अपनापन : Lockton अपनापन, an संबद्ध of Lockton Companies, meets the बीमे needs of affinity groups, franchises, professional संगठन, and एसोसिएशन of all sizes.
lockton Affinity offers a किस्में of insurance उत्पाद options and कार्यक्रम.
Products include : General देयता, पेशेवर Liability, प्रॉपर्टी, Workers मुआवजे, Directors & Officers Liability, वाणिज्यिक स्वचालित, Specialty Coverage, excess, स्वास्थ्य Plans and more.
Lockton International : Lockton International operates offices in the UK and आयरलैंड, as well as कार्यालयों throughout एशिया and Latin अमेरिका.
in Europe, lockton अंतरराष्ट्रीय is a संगी in EOS risq, Europe’s leading insurance broking and risk प्रबन्धन consultancy.
EOS RISQ is an equity-based यूरोपीय साझेदारी of प्रमुख स्वतंत्र बीमे brokers with over 3,500 कर्मचारी based in अधिक than 30 countries in Europe.
Lockton International provides specialized solutions for निजी lines, sme’s and major multi-national क्लाइंट.
White chocolate is a चॉकलेट डेरिवेटिव.
it commonly consists of cocoa मक्खन, शुगर, milk solids और salt, और is characterized by a पाले पीला or आइवरी रूप.
The melting पाइंट of cocoa butter, इसके प्राथमिक cocoa सेम घटक, is high enough to रखना श्वेत chocolate ठोस at room temperature.
Donald Leon `` डॉन '' blankenship ( born March 14, 1950 ) was अध्यक्ष and CEO of Massey उर्जा Co., the sixth largest कोयले कम्पनी ( by 2008 production ) in the United States.
He served in those roles from नवम्बर 30, 2000, until दिसम्बर 31, 2010.
Blankenship is an क्रियाशील financial backer of the Republican पार्टी and भागीदार in local and state politics, especially in his घर state of वेस्ट वर्जिनिया.
He has frequently बोला out publicly about राजनीती, the environment, संघ, and coal production.
u.S. प्रतिभूति and एक्सचेंज Commission filings show Blankenship was सशुल्क $ 17.8 million in 2009, the highest in the coal industry.
His 2009 pay represents a $ 6.8 लाख उठाएँ over 2008 और almost double उसके compensation package in 2007.
Blankenship also received a deferred compensation package valued at $ 27.2 million in 2009.
on December 3, 2010, blankenship घोषित कि he was retiring as सीईओ at the end of the साल, और would be succeeded by massey President बैक्सटर F. phillips Jr.
Bow wow is one of the transcriptions used in English to describe a dog 's bark.
Bow Wow may भी refer to:
धनुष Wow ( band ), a Japanese hard rock/heavy metal band
धनुष Wow ( rapper ), an American rapper और कर्ता
Bow Wow Sauce, a सॉस विकसित in the Cotswolds region of England
Bow wow wow, a uk नई wave बैंड
`` Bow Wow '', a सोंग by The fiery Furnaces from their 2003 album Gallowsbird 's Bark
`` धनुष Wow ब्लूज़ ( My Mama Treat Me जैसे a Dog ) '', a song composed in the 1920s by चट्टान dost & Nat Osborne
Negligence ( lat. negligentia, from neglegere, to neglect, literally `` नहीं to pick up कुछ '' ) is a failure to exercise the care that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in जैसे circumstances.
The क्षेत्रफल of tort law ज्ञात as लापरवाही involves harm caused by carelessness, नहीं intentional harm.
according to jay M. feinman of the rutgers विश्वविद्यालयों School of Law ;
`` The core idea of लापरवाही is that people should exercise reasonable परवाह when वे अधिनियम by लेने account of the संभावित नुक़सान that they might foreseeably cause नुक़सान to other लोगों. ''
`` those जो go personally or लाओ property जहाँ they know that they or it may आइये into टक्कर with the व्यक्तियों or प्रॉपर्टी of अन्य have by विधि a ड्यूटी डाल upon उन्हें to use reasonable care and कौशल to avoid such a collision. ''
Fletcher v Rylands ( [ 1866 ] LR 1 Ex 265 )
Through सिविल litigation, if an घायल व्यक्ति proves कि another person acted negligently to cause उनके injury, वे can recover damages to compensate for their नुक़सान.
Proving a मामला for लापरवाही can potentially entitle the injured plaintiff to मुआवजे लिये नुक़सान to उनके body, प्रॉपर्टी, दिमागी well-being, financial औकात, or intimate संबंध.
However, because negligence cases are very fact-specific, this सामान्य परिभाषा करता not fully explain the अवधारणा of जब the law होगा आवश्यकता one person to compensate another लिये losses caused by accidental injury.
further, the विधि of negligence at आम विधि is तभी एक aspect of the law of liability.
Although resulting क्षतिपूर्ति जरूर be proven in order to recover मुआवजे in a लापरवाही action, the nature और extent of those damages are not the primary फ़ोकस of negligence मामले.
a melanocytic nevus ( also ज्ञात as `` nevocytic nevus '' ) is a type of lesion कि contains nevus कोशिकाएं ( a type of melanocyte ).
कुछ sources equate the term mole साथ `` melanocytic nevus ''.
अन्य sources reserve the term `` mole '' for other purposes.
the बहुमत of औज़ार appear दौरान the first दो decades of a person’s जीवन, while about one in प्रत्येक 100 शिशु is born साथ औज़ार.
Acquired औज़ार are a रूप of benign फुलाव, जबकि congenital moles, or जन्मजात nevi, are माना a minor malformation or hamartoma और may be at a higher risk लिये melanoma.
A mole can be either subdermal ( under the स्किन ) or a pigmented growth on the skin, formed ज़्यादातर of a type of कोशिका ज्ञात as a melanocyte.
the high विशेषज्ञता of the body’s pigmenting एजेंट, मेलेनिन, is responsible लिये their dark color.
औज़ार हैं a सदस्य of the family of skin lesions ज्ञात as nevi.
the comprehensive metabolic फलक, or रासायनिक screen, ( CMP ; CPT कोड 80053 ) is a panel of 14 blood परीक्षण which serves as an आरंभिक व्यापक चिकित्सा स्क्रीनिंग tool.
The cmp provides a rough जाँच of गुर्दा function, liver फलन, and electrolyte and द्रव संतुलन, लकिन it is far इससे perfect.
असामान्य मान from a CBC may be a result of गलत positives and thus the cbc may need to be repeated for a patient ( or replaced साथ a more विशिष्ट परीक्षण ).
The CMP is an विस्तारित संस्करण of the मौलिक metabolic panel ( BMP ), जिससे does नहीं include जिगर परीक्षण.
A CMP ( or BMP ) can be ordered as भाग of a routine physical परिक्षा, or may be प्रयुक्त to monitor a रोगी with a chronic बीमारी, ऐसे as diabetes mellitus or hypertension.
Previous names for the फलक of tests have been chem 12, रसायन panel, रसायन स्क्रीन, SMA 12, sma 20 and SMAC ( Sequential अनेक Analysis - कंप्यूटर ).
The परीक्षण are performed on machines based on the autoanalyzer invented in 1957.
Natural gas extraction by countries in cubic meters per साल.
Natural gas is a naturally occurring hydrocarbon gas mixture consisting primarily of मिथेन, but commonly including varying amounts of अन्य hydrocarbons, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, and हाइड्रोजन sulfide.
Natural गैस is an energy सोर्स often used लिये heating, cooking, और विद्युत generation.
it is also प्रयुक्त as fuel लिये वाहनों and as a chemical feedstock in the manufacture of प्लास्टिक और other commercially important organic रसायन.
प्राकृतिक गैस is found in deep भूमिगत natural rock formations or associated साथ अन्य hydrocarbon टंकी in coal beds और as मिथेन clathrates.
Petroleum is भी another संसाधन found in proximity to and साथ natural गैस.
Most natural gas was created over समय by two mechanisms : biogenic और thermogenic.
Biogenic gas is created by methanogenic organisms in marshes, bogs, landfills, and shallow sediments.
Deeper in the earth, at greater temperature and pressure, thermogenic gas is निर्मित इससे buried सशुल्क सामग्री.
Before natural गैस can be प्रयुक्त as a ईंधन, it must undergo processing to remove impurities, including water, to meet the विशेषताएँ of marketable natural गैस.
the by-products of प्रसंस्करण शामिल ethane, propane, butanes, pentanes, and उच्चतर molecular weight hydrocarbons, हाइड्रोजन sulfide ( जिससे may be परिवर्तित into pure गंधक ), कार्बन dioxide, water vapor, और sometimes helium and nitrogen.
प्राकृतिक gas is often informally referred to बस as गैस, especially when compared to other energy स्त्रोत ऐसे as oil or coal.
इस page is about the Imagination मूवर्स बैंड.
For सूचना about the tv दिखाएँ starring the band, see Imagination Movers ( TV series ).
Imagination Movers is a band formed in New Orleans, Louisiana, in 2003.
the lineup शामिल समृद्ध Collins, Scott durbin, Dave Poche, and Scott `` Smitty '' स्मिथ.
Members of the group were longtime friends and neighbors.
The समूह started as a television/music concept which थी pitched to लोकल pbs affiliates in नई Orleans.
wlae-tv थी the first to take an interest in the group and बाद introduced उन्हें to Beth कोर्टनी, the अध्यक्ष & Chief Executive Officer at Louisiana Public प्रसारण.
Soon बाद, LPB began airing one-minute videos उत्पादित by the Imagination मूवर्स themselves.
the मूवर्स निर्मित a sizable regional following by सेटिंग शैक्षणिक songs for kids to melodies और लय that वयस्कों कद्र as well.
They sold more than 100,000 copies of their self-produced CDs and DVDs.
Their three indie cds : `` Good विचार, '' `` Calling सब Movers, '' and `` आठ फीट '' साथ साथ their grass roots dvd `` हलचल It up '' have, combined, won fourteen नेशनल awards, from such समूह as the National संघ of Parenting Publications ( NAPPA ) and Parents ' चुनाव.
in जल्दी 2005, डिज़्नी took notice, और initiated negotiations to add the मूवर्स to the company 's रोस्टर.
These were interrupted in August when the बाढ़ protection designed और built by the फौज corps of Engineers to protect New ऑरलियन्स failed.
The resulting floodwater claimed the बैंड 's office, as well as the homes of Collins, durbin and Poche – but the सौदे थी signed in the spring of 2006.
In 2008, वॉल्ट Disney Records introduced the कल्पना मूवर्स ' music to the स्वदेश with the release of the Movers ' पहला nationally-released CD, `` Juice Box नायक. ''
in सितंबर 2008, a 30-minute show featuring the समूह began airing on the डिज़्नी Channel 's preschool प्रोग्रामिंग block ज्ञात as playhouse Disney, and currently airs on Playhouse Disney 's बदलना, डिज़्नी जूनियर.
The मूवर्स write और perform सब the गीतों on their show.
Moreover, the Imagination Movers have प्राप्त नाजुक kudos लिये उनके live concert performances.
in October 2009, the Imagination मूवर्स प्रारंभ the `` Live इससे the विचार Warehouse कॉन्सर्ट Tour 2009 ''.
Traveling इससे mid-October to mid-december 2009 उनके live performances include lots of उनके पसंदीदा गीतों और dancing, as खूब as video appearances of Warehouse चूहा.
Beginning in early-February 2011 और wrapping up in late May 2011, the Imagination मूवर्स presented their `` in a Big गोदाम Concert Tour, '' playing more than 100 shows in 50+ शहरों across उत्तर America.
इससे March to अक्तूबर 2012, the कल्पना Movers toured उत्तर America on their post-disney `` rock-o-matic '' tour.
The show maintained several elements of the असली TV concept, such as an on-stage `` विचार emergency '' और several sets इससे their पुरानी कैटलॉग ; however, with the departure of Wendy calio वापस to her देशी Hawaii, the character `` Nina '', along with her musical numbers, is not उपस्थित.
the दौरे promotes the कल्पना Movers ' new album/DVD रिलीज, `` rock-o-matic '', which सुविधाएँ all new म्यूज़िक इससे the band.
the एल्बम itself is produced independently of Disney and रै a notably more वयस्क, समकालीन rock-and-roll sound, though still very appropriate for children.
Several performance dates were moved to later in 2012 to benefit from the increased exposure of the Imagination Movers TV show अभी playing रोज़ on Disney Junior.
The platypus ( ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic mammal endemic to eastern ऑस्ट्रेलिया, including तस्मानिया.
Together with the चार प्रजाति of echidna, it is one of the five extant species of monotremes, the only mammals that lay eggs बजाय of giving birth.
It is the एकमात्र जीना प्रतिनिधि of its परिवार ( ornithorhynchidae ) and genus ( ornithorhynchus ), though a number of सम्बन्धित species have महरूम found in the चट्टान रिकार्ड.
The unusual रूप of this egg-laying, duck -billed, बीवर -tailed, otter -footed mammal baffled यूरोपीय naturalists जब वे first encountered it, साथ some considering it an elaborate धोखाधड़ी.
It is one of the few विषैला mammals, the male platypus having a spur on the हिन्द पैर कि delivers a venom capable of causing कठोर पीड़ा to इंसानो.
the unique सुविधाएँ of the platypus make it an important subject in the पढ़ाई of विकासवादी biology and a recognisable और iconic symbol of Australia ; it रै appeared as a शुभंकर at national events and is featured on the रिवर्स of इसके 20-cent coin.
The platypus is the animal emblem of the state of नई दक्षिण Wales.
जबतक the early 20th century, it was hunted लिये इसके fur, but it is now सुरक्षित throughout इसके दायरा.
हालांकि खिलाते breeding programmes have had only सीमित कामयाबी and the platypus is vulnerable to the प्रभाव of pollution, it is नहीं अंतर्गत कोई immediate threat.
the Chupacabra or chupacabras (, इससे chupar `` to suck '' और cabra `` goat '', literally `` बकरी चूषक '' ) is a legendary cryptid rumored to inhabit parts of the Americas.
it is associated more recently with sightings of an allegedly unknown एनिमल in प्यूर्टो Rico ( जहाँ ये sightings were first reported ), Mexico, और the संयुक्त States, विशेषकर in the latter 's Latin अमरीकी समुदायों.
The name comes इससे the एनिमल 's reported habit of attacking and drinking the blood of livestock, विशेषकर goats.
Physical descriptions of the प्राणी vary.
Eyewitness sightings have महरूम claimed as जल्दी as 1995 in प्यूर्टो Rico, and have चूंकि been reported as far उत्तर as Maine, and as far दक्षिण as चिली, and भी being spotted बाहर the Americas in countries जैसे रूस और the Philippines.
It is supposedly a भारी creature, the size of a small bear, साथ a row of कांटे reaching from the neck to the आधार of the tail.
Sighting reports of the Chupacabra have महरूम disregarded as uncorroborated or lacking प्रमाण, while सबसे रिपोर्ट्स in northern मैक्सिको और the दक्षिणी United States have been सत्यापित as canids afflicted by mange.
Biologists and wildlife प्रबन्धन officials view the chupacabra as a contemporary लेजेंड.
The North अमरीकी Free Trade Agreement ( nafta ) is an अनुबंध हस्ताक्षरित by Canada, Mexico, and the United States, बनाना a trilateral trade bloc in North अमेरिका.
the अनुबंध came into force on January 1, 1994.
It superseded the Canada–United States फ़्री Trade अनुबंध between the u.S., कनाडा, and Mexico
nafta has two supplements : the उत्तर अमरीकी Agreement on Environmental सहयोग ( NAAEC ) and the North American Agreement on Labor Cooperation ( NAALC ).
थर्मल सुकून is the कंडीशन of mind कि expresses satisfaction साथ the thermal environment और is assessed by subjective evaluation ( ansi / ASHRAE मानक 55 ).
maintaining this standard of थर्मल comfort लिये occupants of buildings or other enclosures is एक of the important goals of hvac ( heating, वेंटिलेशन, और air conditioning ) design engineers.
the Predicted Mean vote ( pmv ) model stands among the सबसे recognized thermal सुकून मॉडल.
it was developed using principles of heat balance और experimental data collected in a controlled climate कक्ष अंतर्गत steady state conditions.
Because the PMV model was derived from आंकड़ा collected in a controlled climate, it is not suitable for अनुप्रयोग in naturally ventilated स्पेसेस which प्रायः have high levels of air गति.
This shortcoming motivated the विकास of a family of अनुभवजन्य सांख्यिकीय models of thermal सुकून in naturally ventilated स्पेसेस ज्ञात as अनुकूली मॉडल.
Adaptive models of thermal comfort consider occupants as dynamically interacting साथ उनके पर्यावरण, and controlling उनके thermal comfort by अर्थात् of clothing or window-opening and closing.
This is in contrast to thermal comfort in sealed buildings, in which occupants अनुभव the environment passively.
Thermal comfort is affected by heat conduction, convection, radiation, और evaporative heat घाटा.
थर्मल comfort is कायम जब the heat generated by human metabolism is अनुमत to dissipate, thus maintaining थर्मल संतुलन with the surroundings.
it रै महरूम long पहचाना कि the सनसनी of feeling hot or ठंडा is not just निर्भर on एयर temperature अलोन.
Thermal सुकून calculations according to ANSI/ASHRAE मानक 55 can be freely performed with the CBE Thermal सुकून Tool लिये ASHRAE-55.
Durante degli एलीगियरी, बस referred to as Dante (, ; ; c. 1265–1321 ), थी a major Italian कवि of the Middle Ages.
His दैवी कॉमेडी, originally called ' और later called ' by Boccaccio, is widely considered the महानतम literary कार्य रचित in the Italian language and a कलाकृति of world literature.
In Italy he is known as ' ( `` the Supreme Poet '' ) or just '.
He, Petrarch and Boccaccio हैं also known as `` the three स्रोतों '' or `` the three crowns ''.
Dante is भी पुकारा the `` पिता of the इतालवी भाषा ''.
Headquarters ( Kobe, Japan )
( ) is a टायर and rubber company based in Japan.
It is part of the Sumitomo Group.
The कम्पनी traces इसके origins to 1909, when the sumitomo समूह बना an investment in Dunlop Japan, the newly formed Japanese subsidiary of the British कम्पनी Dunlop रबर.
over the सालो Sumitomo and dunlop developed a close कारोबार relationship, and in 1963 the Sumitomo समूह acquired control of dunlop Japan और renamed it sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd.
in 1985, when Dunlop Rubber थी लिया over by btr plc, the company acquired the automobile tire एसेट of Dunlop, सहित the right to use the dunlop brand on automobile tires.
the acquisition did not शामिल the US and Australian businesses, जिससे यहूद separately owned, लकिन in 1986 Sumitomo also acquired the Dunlop Tire निगम of the US from its प्रबन्धन.
In 1997, sumitomo formed a संयुक्त venture साथ Goodyear टायर और Rubber कम्पनी, by जिससे Goodyear और Sumitomo agreed to manufacture टायर लिये प्रत्येक other 's markets, सहित dunlop branded tires.
as भाग of the agreement, goodyear acquired 75 % रूचि in dunlop Tyres, the uk company which sumitomo had formed, और in Dunlop टायर निगम.
Goodyear and sumitomo also बना निवेश in प्रत्येक अन्य.
Today, the company makes a wide range of rubber आधारित products, including ऑटोमोबाइल tires, golf balls and टेनिस balls.
Microsoft Visual Studio एक्स्प्रेस is a नियत of फ्रीवेयर integrated विकास environments ( IDE ) developed by Microsoft that हैं lightweight versions of the microsoft Visual स्टुडियो उत्पाद line.
Express Editions यहूद conceived शुरूआत साथ विज़ुअल स्टुडियो 2005.
The idea of Express editions is to provide streamlined, easy-to-use and easy-to-learn IDEs for उपयोक्ता अन्य than professional तन्त्र डेवलपर, such as hobbyists and students.
the ऐल्प्स हैं one of the ग्रेट mountain दायरा प्रणालियों of यूरोपीय stretching लगभग across eight Alpine देशों इससे ऑस्ट्रिया और स्लोवेनियाई in the east, Switzerland, liechtenstein, Germany, फ़्रांस to the वेस्ट and Italy and Monaco to the south.
The mountains were formed over hundreds of लाखो of years as the African and यूरेशियाई tectonic प्लेटों collided.
चरम shortening caused by the इवेंट resulted in marine sedimentary रॉक्स rising by thrusting and फोल्डिंग into ऊँची mountain चोटियों such as Mont Blanc और the matterhorn.
मोंट Blanc spans the French–Italian border, and at is the highest mountain in the ऐल्प्स.
the Alpine region area contains many चोटियों higher than, known as the `` four-thousanders ``.
The altitude और आकार of the दायरा affects the climate in Europe ; in the mountains precipitation स्तर vary greatly and climatic शर्तें consist of distinct zones.
वन्यजीव ऐसे as ibex live in the higher peaks to elevations of, and पौधे such as edelweiss grow in रॉकी क्षेत्रों in निम्नतर elevations as well as in higher elevations.
Evidence of human habitation in the Alps goes वापस to the Paleolithic era.
a mummified man, determined to be 5,000 years बूढ़ा, was discovered on a हिमानी at the austrian–italian border in 1991.
By the 6th century BC, the सेल्टिक la Tène संस्कृति was well स्थापित.
Hannibal may have crossed the ऐल्प्स साथ a herd of elephants, और the Romans had settlements in the region.
in 1800 नेपोलियन crossed एक of the mountain passes साथ an army of 40,000.
the 18th और 19th centuries saw an influx of naturalists, लेखक, और artists, in particular the romantics, followed by the golden age of alpinism as mountaineers began to ascend the peaks.
in World युद्ध II the Third Reich invaded the Alpine देशों, with the एक्सेप्शन of Switzerland और liechtenstein ; Adolf हिटलर kept a base of operation in the bar Alps throughout the war.
The अल्पाइन प्रदेश has a strong cultural पहचान.
the परंपरागत culture of farming, cheesemaking, और woodworking still exists in अल्पाइन गांवों, हालांकि the tourist उद्योग began to grow early in the 20th century और विस्तारित greatly after World युद्ध ii to become the प्रबल उद्योग by the end of the सदी.
The शीत ओलम्पिक Games have been hosted in the Swiss, फ्रेंच, Italian, Austrian and German ऐल्प्स.
At present the region is home to 14 लाख people और रै 120 million annual visitors.
Lois Patrice Griffin ( née pewterschmidt ) is a character इससे the animated television श्रेणी Family guy.
She is voiced by writer Alex Borstein and first appeared on television, साथ साथ the rest of the family in the 15-minute short on December 20, 1998.
Lois was निर्मित and designed by श्रेणी creator सेठ MacFarlane.
MacFarlane थी asked to pitch a pilot to the फॉक्स प्रसारण Company based on Larry and स्टीव, a छोटी made by MacFarlane which प्रदर्शित a middle-aged अक्षर नामित लैरी and an बौद्धिक dog, स्टीव.
After the pilot was दिए the ग्रीन light, the griffin family appeared on the एपीसोड `` Death Has a Shadow ``.
Lois is the mother of the Griffin परिवार.
With उसके husband पीटर, वो रै had three children : मेग, क्रिस, and Stewie.
लोइस is often portrayed as a stereotypical television mother, despite her admitting to होने a ड्रग उपयोक्ता, a recovering meth addict kleptomaniac.
Lois रै also था अनेक affairs, one of which allegedly resulted in the conception of Meg.
She रै appeared in other मीडिया relating to Family Guy—including a video खेल, commercials and books—and inspired an entire line of merchandise.
लोइस 's distinctive New York एक्सेंट originated from a character in a stage दिखाएँ that Alex Borstein had performed in, जिससे थी largely inspired by a सापेक्ष जो grew up on Long द्वीप, New York.
Family transmission of Basque language ( Basque as initial language )
Percentage of students registered in बास्क language schools ( 2000–2005 ).
स्थान of the basque-language provinces within स्पेन and फ़्रांस
Basque ( endonym :, ) is the ancestral language of the Basque people, जो inhabit the बास्क Country, a region spanning an क्षेत्रफल in northeastern Spain and southwestern फ़्रांस.
it is spoken by 27 % of Basques in सब territories ( 714,136 out of 2,648,998 ).
of these, 663,035 live in the स्पेनी भाग of the बास्क देश and the remaining 51,100 live in the फ्रेंच part.
In academic discussions of the distribution of Basque in Spain और France, it is प्रथागत to refer to तीन ancient provinces in फ़्रांस और four स्पेनी provinces.
देशी अध्यक्षों are concentrated in a संलग्न area सहित parts of the स्पेनी autonomous communities of the बास्क देश और Navarre and in the पश्चिमी half of the फ्रेंच département of Pyrénées-Atlantiques.
The बास्क Autonomous Community is an administrative entity भीतर the binational ethnographic बास्क Country incorporating the traditional स्पेनी provinces of Biscay, Gipuzkoa, and Álava, which retain their existence as politico-administrative divisions.
ये provinces and अनेक क्षेत्रों of नावारा are heavily populated by जातीय Basques, but Basque was, at least until the 1990s, not spoken as a native भाषा in सबसे of Álava, western parts of Biscay और central and southern areas of Navarre, either क्युकी it had महरूम replaced by Spanish साथ the centuries, in some areas, or because it had never been spoken there, in other क्षेत्रों.
in southwestern फ़्रांस, the ancient basque-populated provinces were Labourd, Lower Navarre, and Soule.
They and अन्य regions were संचित into a सिंगल département in 1790 under the name basses-pyrénées, a नाम which persisted until 1970.
A मानकीकृत रूप of the Basque language, पुकारा euskara batua, was developed by the Basque Language अकादमी in the लेट 1960s.
Euskara Batua थी निर्मित so that Basque language could be used—and easily understood by सब बास्क speakers—in औपचारिक situations ( शिक्षा, mass मीडिया, साहित्य ), and इस is its प्रमुख use today.
the role of इस standard Basque भाषा depends on the linguistic educational model of प्रत्येक region and प्रत्येक school.
in most areas of the स्पेनी Basque Country, the educational Model D, where all subjects हैं taught in Basque, except `` Spanish language और literature '' ( जिससे is taught in Spanish ) is now the predominant model.
In फ़्रांस, the बास्क language school Seaska and the association for a bilingual ( Basque और French ) schooling Ikasbi meet a wide दायरा of बास्क language शैक्षणिक needs up to the Sixth रूप, जबकि प्रायः struggling to surmount financial और administrative constraints.
Apart from this मानकीकृत version, वहीँ are five main बास्क dialects : bizkaian, Gipuzkoan, and अपर navarrese in Spain, और navarrese–lapurdian and Zuberoan ( in फ़्रांस ).
हालांकि वे take their names इससे the mentioned ऐतिहासिक provinces, the dialect सीमाएँ हैं not congruent साथ province सीमाएँ.
the President, Directors and कम्पनी, of the बैंको of the United राज्य, commonly known as the पहला बैंको of the संयुक्त States, was a central bank, चार्टर्ड for a पद of बीस सालो, by the संयुक्त States Congress on फ़रवरी 25, 1791.
Establishment of the बैंको was included in a three-part विस्तार of federal फिस्कल and monetary power ( along साथ a federal mint and excise taxes ) championed by सिकंदर Hamilton, first सचिव of the राजकोष.
Hamilton believed a central bank थी जरुरी to stabilize and improve the स्वदेश 's credit, और to improve हैंडलिंग of the financial business of the संयुक्त राज्य सरकारी under the newly enacted Constitution.
officially proposed to the पहला सत्र of the First कॉंग्रेस in 1790, हैमिल्टन 's बैंको faced widespread resistance from प्रतिद्वंद्वियों of increased federal शक्ति.
सचिव of State Thomas जेफरसन and James मैडिसन led the opposition, which claimed that the bank was असंवैधानिक, और कि it benefited व्यापारियों and investors at the expense of the majority of the जनसांख्यिकी.
the First Bank building is अभी a नेशनल ऐतिहासिक लैंडमार्क located in Philadelphia, पेन्सिलवेनिया within Independence National ऐतिहासिक Park.
जेम्स वेस्ले Marsters ( born August 20, 1962 ) is an अमरीकी कर्ता and संगीतकार.
Marsters पहला आए to the ध्यान of the सामान्य पब्लिक playing the popular अक्षर Spike, a platinum-blond yobbish अंग्रेज़ी vampire in the television श्रेणी Buffy the Vampire Slayer and इसके spin-off series, देवदूत, from 1997 to 2004.
Since तब, he has gone on to खेल other विज्ञान fiction roles, such as the alien supervillain Brainiac on the Superman -inspired series smallville, the omnisexual समय मुसाफ़िर कप्तान जॉन Hart in British science-fiction दिखाएँ Torchwood और terrorist barnabas Greeley in sci fi 's Caprica.
Marsters appeared in a supporting role in the 2007 फिल्म p.s.
I प्रेम तुम और as the main विपक्षी, Piccolo, in the 2009 fantasy एडवेंचर फिल्मी dragonball Evolution.
He appeared as a पुनरावर्ती अक्षर in the पहला ऋतु of the revival of हवाई 5-0.
In molecular biology, इंसान chorionic gonadotropin ( hcg ) is a hormone produced by the निषेचित egg after conception.
Later during pregnancy it is made by the developing placenta, and later by the placental घटक syncytiotrophoblast.
कुछ cancerous tumors उपज this हार्मोन ; therefore, elevated स्तर measured जब the patient is नहीं pregnant can सीसे to a कर्कट diagnosis.
however, it is नहीं known whether this production is a contributing cause or an प्रभाव of tumorigenesis.
the pituitary एनॉलॉग of hcg, known as luteinizing hormone ( LH ), is produced in the pituitary gland of males और महिलाओं of सब आयु.
, the एफडीए रै निषिद्ध the बिक्री of `` homeopathic '' and over the काउंटर hcg diet products और declared them fraudulent and illegal.
बेयोंस गिजेला Knowles-Carter, ज्ञात by her stage name बेयोंस ( ; born September 4, 1981 ), is an American singer, songwriter, dancer, and अभिनेत्री.
Born and raised in Houston, Texas, she performed in गायन and नाचना प्रतियोगिताओं as a चाइल्ड before forming in 1990 a समूह with केली rowland and LaTavia Roberson कि थी eventually नामित Destiny 's चाइल्ड.
एकबार हस्ताक्षरित to Columbia रिकॉर्ड, the लड़कियों subsequently became one of the world 's best-selling girl groups of all समय.
The समूह थी plagued by internal विरोध और legal turmoil and Knowles suffered इससे अवसाद that lasted for a क्रमांक of years.
दौरान the समूह 's hiatus, नॉलेस released her debut सोलो album Dangerously in Love ( 2003 ), जिससे earned her पाँच Grammy Awards and has sold a total of 4.9 million copies in the US alone.
It spawned बिलबोर्ड क्रमांक one singles `` Crazy in Love, '' considered by VH1 to be the `` Greatest Song Of the 00 's, '' और `` baby लड़के. ''
following the disbandment of नियति 's Child in 2005, Knowles 's second solo एल्बम B'Day ( 2006 ) contained the top five singles `` Déjà Vu ``, `` Irreplaceable ``, and `` Beautiful झूठा ``.
Her performance in Dreamgirls ( 2006 ) अर्जित her two सुनहरी Globe nominations.
Knowles ' work playing etta जेम्स in that film inspired उसके subsequent एल्बम I Am...
Sasha Fierce ( 2008 ) जिससे spawned hits `` If i Were a Boy ``, `` Single महिलाओं ( Put a Ring on It ) ``, `` Halo ``, and `` Sweet Dreams ``.
the एल्बम also helped Knowles earn छह Grammys in 2010, तोड़कर the record लिये सबसे ग्रैमी पुरस्कार won by a female कलाकार in one रात्रि.
Her fourth एल्बम 4 ( 2011 ) deviated towards traditional r & b and became her fourth consecutive क्रमांक एक album on the बिलबोर्ड 200.
in January 2012, Knowles gave जनम to daughter Blue Ivy कार्टर, her पहला child साथ husband jay-z.
Knowles has sold over 13 लाख albums in the us और 118 लाख records विश्वव्यापी ( as well as a further 50 लाख रिकॉर्ड साथ Destiny 's चाइल्ड ), और is one of the best-selling music कलाकारों of all समय.
the Recording उद्योग Association of अमेरिका ( RIAA ) पहचाना नॉलेस as the शीर्ष Certified कलाकार of the 2000s.
in 2009, Billboard named her the Top Radio Songs कलाकार of the decade and ranked उसके the Top Female Artist and the fourth Artist of the Decade.
Beyoncé नॉलेस is the most मनोनीत woman in ग्रैमी Award इतिहास, receiving 17 पुरस्कार ; other accolades include 12 MTV Video Music पुरस्कार, 7 बिलबोर्ड पुरस्कार including a मिलेनियम Award, और a स्टार on the हॉलीवुड चलना of Fame as part of Destiny 's Child.
`` एंग्री All the Time '' is the शीर्षक of a सोंग लिखा by ब्रूस Robison and first अंकित on उसके 1998 एल्बम Wrapped.
it was later covered by टिम mcgraw साथ guest vocalist Faith हिल.
Released in जुलाई 2001, McGraw 's version was the second single from mcgraw 's Set इस Circus Down album.
the सोंग reached क्रमांक One on the Billboard Hot Country Singles & Tracks ( अभी hot Country Songs ) चार्ट.
Dear जॉन is a 2010 American romantic नाटक - war फिल्मी starring Amanda Seyfried और Channing Tatum.
it थी released theatrically in उत्तर America on February 5, 2010.
The फिल्मी थी निर्देशित by lasse hallström, and it is an adaptation of Nicholas स्पार्क्स 's novel of the same name.
it फ़ॉलो the life of a soldier ( Channing Tatum ) after he जलप्रपात in love with a young woman ( Amanda Seyfried ).
They decide to exchange अक्षर to each other after he is deployed to the war.
The movie was filmed in 2009 in चार्ल्सटन, दक्षिण Carolina.
despite receiving negative reviews, the film बना a strong box दफ्तर performance, knocking off अवतार after seven सप्ताहांत in पहला प्लेस and grossing a total of $ 114,977,104 worldwide.
The film was released on May 25, 2010 on dvd और Blu-ray.
ये are lists of the busiest airports in the संयुक्त States.
Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International विमानक्षेत्र is the busiest single airport in the United राज्य.
However, all of the नई York City metropolitan क्षेत्रफल 's एयरपोर्ट combine to बनाएँ the largest airport system in the संयुक्त States, second in the संसार in terms of passenger traffic, and पहला in the संसार in शर्तें of total उड़ान operations.
Dora the Explorer is an अमरीकी animated television series निर्मित by क्रिस Gifford, वैलेरी Walsh, and Eric Weiner.
डोरा the Explorer became a regular series in 2000.
The दिखाएँ is carried on the Nickelodeon cable television network, सहित the associated उपनाम jr. चैनल.
It aired on CBS जबतक September 2006.
a Spanish-dubbed version पहला aired as भाग of a उपनाम en español block on एनबीसी सार्वभौमिक -owned Telemundo through सितंबर 2006 ; since April 2008, this version of the program has been carried on Univision as part of the planeta U block.
Santa Fe ( ; ( tewa : ogha po'oge, ) ) is the capital of the U.S. state of New मैक्सिको.
It is the fourth-largest नगर in the राज्य और is the seat of.
सांता fe ( meaning “holy faith” in Spanish ) had a population of 67,947 in the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
it is the principal नगर of a Metropolitan सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल which encompasses all of सांता fe County and is part of the larger Albuquerque-Santa Fe-Las Vegas Combined Statistical क्षेत्रफल.
the city’s पूरा नाम जब संस्थापित was La Villa Real de la Santa Fé de San Francisco de Asís ( “The Royal Town of the पावन Faith of st. Francis of assisi” ).
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as pepsi, formerly stylized in अपरकेस as PEPSI ) is a कार्बोनेटेड soft drink कि is produced and manufactured by पेप्सिको.
निर्मित और विकसित in 1893 and introduced as Brad 's पेय, it थी renamed as Pepsi-Cola on August 28, 1898, then to Pepsi in 1961.
1765 broadside
The बेटे of स्वतंत्रता थी a समूह consisting of American देशप्रेमी that originated in the pre-independence उत्तर American अंग्रेजों colonies.
The group थी formed to protect the अधिकारों of the colonists और to लो to the streets against the taxes by the British government.
वे हैं बेहतरीन known for undertaking the Boston Tea Party in 1773, which led to the Intolerable अधिनियमों ( an intense crackdown by the अंग्रेजों government ), and a counter-mobilization by the देशप्रेमी.
Osaka castle
is a नगर in the Kansai प्रदेश of जापानी 's प्रमुख island of Honshu, a designated नगर अंतर्गत the लोकल Autonomy Law, the capital city of Osaka Prefecture and also the largest part of the keihanshin metropolis, which comprises three major शहरों of Japan, Kyoto, Osaka और Kobe.
स्तिथ at the mouth of the yodo नदी on Osaka Bay, Osaka is Japan 's तीसरा largest नगर by population after टोकियो ( खास wards ) and Yokohama.
Keihanshin is the second largest metropolitan area in जापानी by जनसांख्यिकी and one of the largest महानगर areas highly ranked in the संसार, with nearly 19 लाख people, and by GDP the second largest area in Japan और the सातवाँ largest area in the संसार.
historically the commercial बीच of जापानी, ओसाका functions as एक of the command centers for the Japanese अर्थव्यवस्था.
the ratio between daytime and रात्रि time population is 141 %, the highest in जापानी, highlighting its status as an आर्थिक center.
इसके nighttime population is 2.6 लाख, the third in the country, but in दिन the population surges to 3.7 million, second तभी बाद टोकियो ( combining the special wards of Tokyo, जिससे is नहीं a सिंगल incorporated city, लिये statistical उद्देश्य ; देखिए the Tokyo article for more information on the परिभाषा and makeup of Tokyo ).
Osaka प्रयुक्त to be referred to as the in सामंती Edo काल because it was the केन्द्र of trading for rice, बनाना the पहला आधुनिक futures एक्सचेंज market in the संसार.
The Little मरमेड is a 1989 American animated musical काल्पनिक फिल्मी produced by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी Feature एनिमेशन और distributed by Walt Disney Pictures.
आधारित on the डैनिश fairy tale by Hans Christian andersen, The Little Mermaid tells the स्टोरी of a खूबसूरत मरमेड जो सपनो of बनने human.
Written, directed, and produced by Ron क्लेमेंट्स और जॉन Musker, साथ music by एलन menken और Howard ashman, the film features the voices Jodi Benson, Christopher Daniel barnes, Pat Carroll, सैमुएल E. Wright, जेसन मारिन, Kenneth Mars, दोस्त Hacket, and रेने auberjonois.
The 28th film in the वॉल्ट डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड क्लासिक series, the Little Mermaid was released to theaters on November 14, 1989 to largely धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ, garnering $ 84 लाख at the box दफ्तर during its आरंभिक release, और $ 211 million in total lifetime gross.
बाद the कामयाबी of the 1988 Disney / Amblin film Who framed Roger Rabbit, the Little Mermaid is दिए credit for श्वास life back into the आर्ट of डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड विशेषता films बाद a स्ट्रिंग of नाजुक or commercial failures उत्पादित by Disney कि दिनाँक वापस to the जल्दी 1970s.
It भी चिह्नित the प्रारंभ of the era known as the डिज़्नी Renaissance.
A स्टेज adaptation of the film with a book by Doug राइट and अतिरिक्त गीतों by Alan menken और नई lyricist ग्लेन Slater opened in डेनवर in July 2007 और began प्रदर्शन on Broadway जनवरी 10, 2008.
alt=Close-up फ़ोटो of a metal चमचा भर साथ a viscous, साफ purple fluid
जामुनी drank is a slang term for a recreational ड्रग popular in the hip hop जातियाँ in the दक्षिणी United States, originating in Houston, Texas.
Its main संघटक is नुस्खा -strength cough syrup containing codeine and promethazine.
Cough सिरप is typically मिश्रित साथ संघटक such as Sprite नरम पेय or Mountain Dew और pieces of Jolly rancher candy.
The purplish hue of purple drank आता इससे dyes in the cough सिरप.
वहीँ are numerous slang terms for purple drank, including sizzurp, lean, सिरप, drank, barre, जामुनी jelly, Texas tea, और Tsikuni.
first/given, middle, और last/family/surname diagram with J. S. बच as example.
J. S. बच shared his given name साथ six तात्कालिक family सदस्यों और अनेक विस्तारित family सदस्यों.
He साझा उसके परिवार name साथ most परिवार members.
A दिए name, in Western contexts प्रायः referred to as a first name, is a personal नाम that specifies and differentiates between सदस्यों of a group of individuals, especially in a परिवार, all of whose members usually share the वही family name ( उपनाम ).
A दिए नाम is purposefully दिए, usually by a चाइल्ड 's parents at or near जनम, in contrast to an inherited एक such as a family name.
A दिए name is sometimes legally changed through a नाम change.
Given names are often प्रयुक्त in a familiar and दोस्ताना manner in अनौपचारिक situations.
in more औपचारिक परिस्थितियों the surname is प्रयुक्त instead, unless it is जरुरी to distinguish between people साथ the same उपनाम.
The idiom `` on a first-name basis '' ( or `` on first-name terms '' ) alludes to the familiarity of addressing another by a given name.
The western style of having both a family name ( उपनाम ) और a given नाम is दूर इससे universal.
In अनेक देशों it is common for ordinary people to have only one name ( a mononym ).
हाइड्रोक्लोरिक acid is a clear, colourless समाधान of hydrogen chloride ( H Cl ) in water.
It is a highly क्षयकारी, strong खनिज एसिड साथ अनेक औद्योगिक उपयोग.
Hydrochloric एसिड is found naturally in gastric एसिड.
Historically called muriatic एसिड, and आत्माओं of salt, hydrochloric acid was उत्पादित इससे vitriol ( sulfuric एसिड ) and common salt.
it first appeared during the पुनर्जागरण, और then it was प्रयुक्त by chemists ऐसे as Glauber, प्रीस्टलि and Davy in their वैज्ञानिक research.
With major production starting in the औद्योगिक Revolution, हाइड्रोक्लोरिक एसिड is प्रयुक्त in the रासायनिक industry as a रासायनिक reagent in the large-scale production of vinyl chloride for PVC प्लास्टिक, और mdi / TDI for polyurethane.
It रै numerous smaller-scale applications, including household सफ़ाई, production of gelatin और अन्य food एडिटिव, descaling, और leather processing.
About 20 लाख tonnes of hydrochloric acid हैं उत्पादित annually.
Wheat ( triticum spp. ) is a खाद्यान्न अनाज, originally इससे the Levant region of the निकट East and Ethiopian Highlands, लकिन अभी cultivated विश्वव्यापी.
in 2010, world production of गेहूं थी 651 लाख tons, making it the third most-produced खाद्यान्न after मक्का ( 844 million tons ) and rice ( 672 million टन ).
Wheat थी the second most-produced cereal in 2009 ; संसार production in that year was 682 million टन, after maize ( 817 million टन ), और साथ राइस as a बंद तीसरा ( 679 million tons ).
This अनाज is grown on more जमीन area than कोई other commercial food.
World व्यापार in wheat is greater than for all other फसलों संयुक्त.
globally, wheat is the leading सोर्स of vegetable protein in इंसान food, having a higher protein सामग्री than soybeans or the other major cereals, maize ( corn ) or rice.
In terms of total production tonnages used लिये food, it is फिलहाल दूसरी to rice as the प्रमुख इंसान खाना क्रॉप and ahead of maize, after allowing for मक्का 's अधिक extensive उपयोग in animal फ़ीड्स.
गेहूं was a कुंजी factor enabling the emergence of city-based societies at the start of सभ्यता क्युकी it was एक of the पहला crops that could be easily cultivated on a विशाल स्केल, and had the additional advantage of yielding a harvest कि provides long-term storage of खाना.
गेहूं contributed to the emergence of city-states in the fertile Crescent, including the babylonian and Assyrian empires.
Wheat grain is a staple food used to make आटा लिये leavened, flat and steamed breads, बिस्कुट, cookies, cakes, breakfast cereal, पास्ता, नूडल्स, couscous and लिये fermentation to make beer, other alcoholic beverages, or biofuel.
Wheat is planted to a limited extent as a forage crop for पशुधन, और its स्ट्रॉ can be प्रयुक्त as a निर्माण material लिये roofing thatch.
the whole grain can be milled to छोड़ just the endosperm for श्वेत flour.
The by-products of इस are चोकर and रोगाणु.
The पूरे अनाज is a concentrated source of विटामिन, minerals, and protein, जबकि the refined अनाज is ज़्यादातर मंड.
Printing
to publish is to मेक content available to the general public.
While specific use of the पद may vary among देशों, it is प्रायः applied to टेक्स्ट, बिंब, or other audio-visual content on कोई परंपरागत medium, including paper ( अखबारों, magazines, कैटलॉग, इत्यादि. ).
the शब्द publication means the act of प्रकाशन, and भी refers to कोई printed नक़ल.
मेलिसा & जॉय is an ABC Family original television series starring Melissa Joan हार्ट and Joey Lawrence.
It पहला aired on एबीसी परिवार on August 17, 2010.
the श्रेणी follows लोकल राजनेता mel Burke ( Melissa जोन Hart ) and Joe Longo ( Joey Lawrence ), जिसको mel hires to dekh बाद her भांजी and nephew after a पेन्शन scheme leaves him broke.
The series was renewed by ABC Family लिये a second ऋतु of पंद्रह एपीसोड, जिससे began airing on may 30, 2012 और ended on August 29, 2012.
मेलिसा & Joey बाँधने as cable tv 's # 1 telecast at 8 o'clock across target audiences 18–34, 18–49 और 12–34 जनसांख्यिकी.
On August 17, 2012, ABC Family नवीनीकृत Melissa & Joey लिये a third ऋतु, नियत to premiere in spring 2013.
The Dharma wheel, often प्रयुक्त to represent the प्रतिष्ठित Eightfold Path
The प्रतिष्ठित Eightfold Path (, ) is एक of the principal teachings of the Buddha, who वर्णित it as the way leading to the cessation of suffering ( dukkha ) and the achievement of self-awakening.
It is used to develop insight into the true nature of phenomena ( or reality ) and to eradicate लोभ, द्वेष, and delusion.
The Noble eightfold Path is the fourth of the Buddha 's Four Noble सच्चाई ; the first element of the Noble eightfold पाथ is, in फेरे, an समझना of the Four Noble Truths.
It is also known as the Middle Path or Middle Way.
All eight तत्व of the पाथ begin with the word `` right '', which translates the word samyañc ( in Sanskrit ) or sammā ( in Pāli ).
ये denote पूर्णता, togetherness, and coherence, and can also suggest the होश of `` पूर्ण '' or `` आदर्श ''.
'samma ' is भी अनूदित as `` wholesome '', `` wise '' and `` skillful ''.
in Buddhist symbolism, the Noble Eightfold पाथ is often represented by means of the dharma wheel ( dharmachakra ), whose आठ तीलियां represent the eight elements of the पाथ.
the ग्रैमी Award लिये Song of the Year is an honor प्रस्तुत at the Grammy Awards, a ceremony कि was स्थापित in 1958 and originally पुकारा the gramophone Awards.
पुरस्कार in several श्रेणी हैं distributed annually by the National Academy of Recording कला और sciences of the United States to `` सम्मान कलाकारी achievement, तकनीकी proficiency and overall excellence in the recording उद्योग, without regard to album sales or chart position. ''
अर्थशास्त्र is the social science that analyzes the production, वितरण, and consumption of goods and सेवाएं.
the पद economics आता from the प्राचीन Greek ( ', `` management of a household, प्रशासन '' ) from ( ', `` house '' ) + ( ', `` कस्टम '' or `` law '' ), hence `` नियम of the हाउस ( hold ) ''.
राजनैतिक अर्थव्यवस्था was the earlier नाम for the विषय, but economists in the late 19th century suggested `` अर्थशास्त्र '' as a shorter term लिये `` आर्थिक विज्ञान '' that also avoided a narrow political-interest connotation and as समान in form to `` गणित ``, `` ethics '', and so forth.
A focus of the subject is how economic agents व्यवहार or interact and how economies work.
Consistent साथ this, a primary textbook distinction is between microeconomics और macroeconomics.
microeconomics examines the behavior of मौलिक elements in the economy, including individual agents ( such as households and firms or as buyers and विक्रेता ) और markets, और उनके interactions.
macroeconomics analyzes the संपूर्ण economy and issues affecting it, सहित unemployment, महंगाई, economic growth, and monetary और फिस्कल नीति.
Other व्यापक distinctions include those between positive economics ( describing `` what is '' ) and normative economics ( वकालत `` what ought to be '' ) ; between economic सिद्धान्त and लागू economics ; between rational और behavioral economics ; और between mainstream economics ( more `` orthodox '' और dealing साथ the `` rationality-individualism-equilibrium nexus '' ) and heterodox economics ( more `` radical '' and dealing with the `` institutions-history-social ढांचा nexus '' ).
आर्थिक analysis may be लागू throughout समाज, as in business, वित्त, health परवाह, और government, but भी to such diverse subjects as अपराधों, education, the परिवार, विधि, राजनीती, धर्म, social संस्थानों, युद्ध, and विज्ञान.
at the turn of the 21st सदी, the expanding domain of अर्थशास्त्र in the सोशल sciences has महरूम वर्णित as आर्थिक साम्राज्यवाद.
An increasing number of economists have called for increased जोर on पर्यावरणीय sustainability ; this क्षेत्रफल of research is known as Ecological economics.
This is a सूची of Schedule IV drugs अंतर्गत the नियंत्रित Substances Act लिये the United States.
Required निष्कर्षों for drugs to be placed in this schedule:
The ड्रग or अन्य पदार्थ has a low potential लिये abuse relative to the drugs or अन्य substances in schedule iii.
The drug or अन्य पदार्थ has a फिलहाल accepted medical use in treatment in the संयुक्त States.
गाली of the drug or अन्य पदार्थ may lead to सीमित शारीरिक dependence or psychological dependence relative to the दवाएँ or अन्य substances in schedule iii.
The पूरा सूची of अनुसूची iv drugs हैं as follows.
the Administrative Controlled Substances कोड क्रमांक for each ड्रग is included.
US county household मध्य आय 2009.
Median us household आय, 2001-2011
Household income is a measure commonly used by the United राज्य government and निजी संस्थानों.
Each household is measured by the income of प्रत्येक resident over the आयु of 15.
Income शामिल wages and salaries, unemployment बीमे, विकलांगता भुगतान, चाइल्ड support भुगतान प्राप्त, नियमित rental receipts, as well as any personal कारोबार, निवेश, or अन्य kinds of income प्राप्त routinely.
जबकि inflation-adjusted ( `` real '' ) household आय था महरूम increasing almost प्रत्येक साल इससे 1945 to 1999, it has since been flat and even decreased recently.
U.S. मध्य household income fell इससे $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011.
चरम गरीबी in the United States, अर्थ households जीना on less than $ 2 per day before government benefits, doubled इससे 1996 to 1.5 million households in 2011, सहित 2.8 लाख children.
the residents of the household do not have to be related to the सिर of the household लिये उनके आय to be considered भाग of the household 's income.
As households tend to share a similar economic context, the use of household आय remains among the सबसे widely स्वीकृत measures of income.
That the size of a household is not commonly लिया into account in such measures may विकृत कोई विश्लेषण of fluctuations within or among the household income categories, and may render सीधा comparisons between quintiles difficult or भी नामुमकिन.
The बीतने rate is defined as the rate of घटी with height for an वायुमंडलीय variable.
The variable शामिल is temperature जबतक specified वरना.
the terminology arises from the word बीतने in the भाव of a घटी or मनाही.
While सबसे often applied to धरती 's atmosphere the concept can be extended to any gravitationally supported ball of gas.
Blue पहाड़ State is an अमरीकी कॉमेडी series that premiered on Spike on January 11, 2010.
The series producers include Chris Romano और Eric falconer, और it is produced by Lionsgate टेलीविज़न.
The श्रेणी is परिचय a fictional university, Blue पहाड़ राज्य, and its football team, `` The Mountain Goats. ''
it portrays निश्चित पहलुओं of American विश्वविद्यालयों जीवन, सहित फ़ुटबॉल, sex, binge पीने, drugs, wild partying, और hazing.
in फ़रवरी 2012, it थी reported कि ब्लू Mountain राज्य होता नहीं be renewed लिये a fourth season.
In March 2013, Ed marinaro stated कि he is working on a ब्लू पहाड़ राज्य film.
ठहराना Inc., formerly Apple Computer, Inc., is an American multinational corporation headquartered in cupertino, कैलिफ़ोर्निया कि designs, develops, और sells उपभोक्ता electronics, कंप्यूटर तन्त्र and personal computers.
इसके best-known हार्डवेयर products हैं the मैक लकीर of computers, the iPod म्यूज़िक player, the iphone smartphone, and the ipad टैब्लेट कंप्यूटर.
Its software शामिल the os X and iOS ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों, the iTunes media browser, the Safari web ब्राउजर, और the ilife और iWork creativity and production suites.
The कम्पनी was founded on April 1, 1976, और incorporated as Apple Computer, inc. on जनवरी 3, 1977.
The word `` कंप्यूटर '' थी removed from its नाम on जनवरी 9, 2007, reflecting इसके shifted फ़ोकस towards consumer इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स बाद the परिचय of the iphone.
Apple is the संसार 's second-largest सूचना प्रौद्योगिकी company by आय after samsung Electronics, and the world 's third-largest मोबाईल फोन मेकर after samsung और नोकिया.
सौभाग्य magazine नामित Apple the most admired कम्पनी in the संयुक्त States in 2008, and in the world from 2008 to 2012.
However, the कम्पनी has प्राप्त criticism for its ठेकेदारों ' labor practices, and लिये Apple 's अपना environmental and business practices.
, Apple maintains 394 retail stores in fourteen countries as well as the ऑनलाइन Apple Store and iTunes Store.
it is the second-largest सरेआम traded corporation in the world by मार्केट capitalization, साथ an estimated मान of US $ 414 billion as of जनवरी 2013.
, the कम्पनी had 72,800 स्थाई full-time कर्मचारी and 3,300 temporary full-time कर्मचारी worldwide.
Its worldwide सालाना आय in 2012 totalled $ 156 अरब.
Section 8 housing in the दक्षिण bronx
Section 8 of the Housing अधिनियम of 1937 ( ), often simply known as खण्ड 8, as repeatedly amended, authorizes the payment of rental housing सहायता to private landlords on निमित्त of लगभग 3.1 million low-income households.
It operates through अनेक कार्यक्रम, the largest of which, the आवास चुनाव Voucher कार्यक्रम, pays a विशाल portion of the rents and utilities of परिचय 2.1 लाख households.
The US Department of Housing and Urban Development manages the खण्ड 8 कार्यक्रम.
the Housing चुनाव वाउचर Program provides `` tenant-based '' rental सहायता, so a किरायेदार can move from one unit of at least न्यूनतम housing quality to another.
It भी allows individuals to apply their monthly वाउचर towards the purchase of a home, साथ over $ 17 billion going towards such purchases each साल ( from ncsha.org analysis ).
The अधिकतम अनुमत वाउचर is $ 2200 a month.
Section 8 भी authorizes a variety of `` project-based '' rental assistance programs, अंतर्गत जिससे the owner reserves कुछ or all of the units in a building लिये low-income किरायेदारों, in return for a संघीय government guarantee to make up the difference between the किरायेदार 's contribution and the rent लिये 1 cent in the owner 's contract with the सरकारी.
A किरायेदार who leaves a subsidized project होगा खोना अभिगम to the project-based subsidy.
the United राज्य Department of आवास और Urban विकास and संयुक्त States Department of Veterans Affairs have a special Section 8 program पुकारा VASH ( Veterans अफेयर्स supportive आवास ), or hud-vash, जिससे gives आउट a certain क्रमांक of Section 8 vouchers to योग्य बेघर and otherwise vulnerable us armed forces veterans.
रेस्तरां categorized by type और information about these different types.
u.S. संघीय आरक्षित टीप in the mid-1990s
the history of the United States डालर covers अधिक than 200 सालो.
