a partly submerged हिमानी गुफा on Perito मोरेनो Glacier.
the बर्फ facade is approximately 60 m high
Ice formations in the titlis glacier cave
a हिमानी cave is a गुफा formed भीतर the ice of a glacier.
Glacier caves हैं प्रायः called ice caves, but this term is properly used to describe bedrock गुफाएं that contain year-round बर्फ.
In physics, गोलाकार गति is a गति of an ऑब्जेक्ट along the परिधि of a वृत्त or रोटेशन साथ a गोलाकार path.
it can be वर्दी, साथ निरंतर कोणीय rate of रोटेशन ( और constant गति ), or non-uniform with a changing rate of rotation.
the rotation around a फिक्स्ड अक्ष of a three-dimensional देह involves circular गति of its भाग.
The equations of motion describe the movement of the center of mass of a देह.
उदाहरण of गोलाकार गति include : an artificial satellite orbiting the Earth at निरंतर height, a स्टोन जिससे is tied to a रस्सी और is being swung in वृत्त, a car turning through a वक्र in a race track, an electron moving perpendicular to a uniform चुम्बकीय field, and a गियर turning अंदर a mechanism.
चूंकि the ऑब्जेक्ट 's गति वेक्टर is constantly बदलना direction, the moving ऑब्जेक्ट is undergoing त्वरण by a अभिकेन्द्रीय फ़ोर्स in the direction of the बीच of रोटेशन.
बगैर इस acceleration, the ऑब्जेक्ट होता मूव in a सीधा लकीर, according to न्यूटन 's laws of गति.
Apollo पंथ is a fictional अक्षर इससे the Rocky films, initially portrayed as the Undisputed Heavyweight चैंपियन of the World.
He was निभाई by कार्ल weathers.
Creed था अनेक nicknames, including the निपुण of विपत्ति, the King of स्टिंग, the नाचना विनाशक, The प्रिंस of पंच, The एक and Only and the गिनती of मोंटे fisto.
शहरी legend states that अपोलो पंथ 's name is a wordplay on the रसूलों ' पंथ, a बयान of belief प्रयुक्त in Christian चर्च.
All of Apollo 's चैंपियनशिप झगड़े were अनुसूचित for the 15 round distance.
Championship झगड़े किया नहीं convert इससे 15 rounds to 12 rounds until 1987.
रॉकी Balboa is प्रायः wrongly credited साथ popularizing the red, श्वेत, और ब्लू trunks ; पंथ was the पहला man to wear उन्हें ( latterly worn by Rocky बाल्बोआ in the 3rd और 4th किश्तों and finally by टॉमी `` the Machine '' gunn ( Tommy Morrison ) in the 5th installment ) although normally he wore रेड और white, as seen in Rocky ii.
बाल्बोआ 's signature रंगों यहूद ब्लैक and gold—colors he प्रयुक्त in the latest फिल्म.
In the United राज्य, the शीर्षक of federal judge प्रायः अर्थात् a न्यायधीश नियुक्त by the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य and पुष्टि by the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट pursuant to the नियुक्ति clause in Article ii of the United States Constitution.
In addition to the परम् अदालत of the United States, जिनकी अस्तित्व and कुछ पहलुओं of जिनकी क्षेत्राधिकार हैं परे the constitutional शक्ति of Congress to alter, acts of Congress have established 13 courts of appeals ( also पुकारा `` सर्किट न्यायालयों '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over अलग regions of the United राज्य, और 94 United राज्य ज़िला न्यायालयों.
Every न्यायधीश appointed to such a court may be categorized as a संघीय judge ; such स्थितियाँ include the मुख्य Justice and संबद्ध justices of the Supreme Court, सर्किट Judges of the courts of appeals, और district न्यायाधीशों of the संयुक्त States ज़िला courts.
सब of ये judges वर्णित यूँ far हैं referred to sometimes as `` आलेख iii judges '' क्युकी they exercise the judicial शक्ति vested in the न्यायिक branch of the federal सरकारी by Article III of the U.S. Constitution.
in addition, judges of the Court of International व्यापार exercise judicial power pursuant to आलेख iii.
अन्य judges serving in the संघीय courts, सहित magistrate judges और bankruptcy न्यायाधीशों, are also sometimes referred to as `` संघीय न्यायाधीशों '' ; however, वे हैं neither नियुक्त by the अध्यक्ष nor पुष्टि by the Senate, और their power गर्भाशयी इससे Article I बजाय.
देखिए आलेख i and Article iii tribunals.
The Beretta 21a बॉबकैट is a small pocket-sized semi-automatic pistol designed by beretta in Italy.
उत्पादन began in late 1984, solely in the beretta u.s.A. सुविधा in accokeek, Maryland.
it is a further development of the Beretta Model 20, जिनकी production ended in 1985.
परिवर्तनीय Universal Life Insurance ( often shortened to vul ) is a प्रकार of life बीमे that builds a नकदी value.
in a VUL, the नकदी मान can be invested in a चौड़ी variety of पृथक accounts, समान to mutual निधि, and the चुनाव of which of the उपलब्धियाँ पृथक खाते to उपयोग is entirely up to the contract owner.
the 'variable ' घटक in the name refers to इस ability to invest in पृथक accounts जिनकी values vary—they vary because they are invested in stock and/or bond markets.
The 'universal ' घटक in the नाम refers to the लचीलापन the मालिक रै in बनाना premium भुगतान.
the premiums can vary from nothing in a given month up to maximums defined by the आतंरिक Revenue Code लिये जीवन बीमे.
इस लचीलापन is in contrast to whole life insurance कि रै फिक्स्ड premium payments that typically can नहीं be missed without lapsing the policy ( although एक may कसरत an स्वचालित प्रीमियम ऋण विशेषता, or surrender dividends to अदा a पूरे Life premium ).
Variable सार्वभौमिक जीवन is a type of permanent life insurance, क्युकी the death benefit होगा be paid if the insured dies any time as long as there is sufficient cash मान to अदा the costs of बीमे in the नीति.
With most if नहीं सब VULs, नापसंद whole life, वहीँ is no endowment आयु ( the age at जिससे the नकदी मान equals the death benefit राशि, जिससे लिये पूरे life is typically 100 ).
इस is yet another key advantage of VUL over पूरे जीवन.
With a typical whole life policy, the मौत benefit is सीमित to the face amount निर्दिष्ट in the policy, और at endowment आयु, the फेस राशि is all that is सशुल्क आउट.
यूँ साथ either death or endowment, the insurance company keeps कोई नकदी मान निर्मित up over the सालो.
However, some participating पूरे जीवन नीतियों प्रस्ताव riders जिससे specify कि any dividends paid on the नीति be used to purchase `` paid up परिवर्धन '' to the नीति which increase both the cash मान और the death लाभ over समय.
If निवेश made in the separate खाते out-perform the general खाता of the बीमे company, a उच्चतर rate-of-return can occur than the फिक्स्ड rates-of-return typical लिये पूरे जीवन.
The combination over the years of no endowment आयु, continually increasing death लाभ, and if a high rate-of-return is अर्जित in the separate खाते of a vul policy, this could result in उच्चतर मान to the मालिक or beneficiary than that of a whole जीवन नीति with the same amounts of money सशुल्क in as प्रीमियम.
The बाहरी wood boiler is a रूपांतर of the क्लासिक wood स्टोव adapted लिये set-up बाहरी while still transferring the ऊष्मा to interior इमारतें.
a mound of लड़की स्काउट cookies.
इस mound contains 74 बाक्स of cookies
Girl स्काउट Cookies हैं cookies बेची by लड़की स्काउट of the USA ( GSUSA ) as एक of its प्रमुख fundraisers लिये local स्काउट इकाई.
Members of the GSUSA have been selling कुकीज़ since 1917 to उठाएँ निधि.
लड़कियों who participate can earn पुरस्कार for their efforts.
There are also unit प्रोत्साहन if the ईकाई as a whole करता खूब.
as of 2007, बिक्री were estimated at about 200 million boxes per year.
University हॉल
Purdue विश्वविद्यालयों, located in West Lafayette, Indiana, is the फ्लैगशिप विश्वविद्यालयों of the six-campus Purdue University system.
Purdue थी संस्थापित on May 6, 1869, as a land-grant university when the Indiana General Assembly, लेने लाभ of the morrill अधिनियम, accepted a donation of जमीन and money इससे lafayette बिजनेसमैन जॉन purdue to establish a college of विज्ञान, प्रौद्योगिकी, और कृषि in उसके नाम.
the पहला वर्ग were held on सितंबर 16, 1874, with छह instructors और 39 students.
आज, purdue is a member of the Big Ten Conference, and is a खूब ज्ञात world-class research संस्था.
Purdue enrolls the second largest छात्र body of कोई university in Indiana as खूब as the चौथी largest अंतरराष्ट्रीय छात्र जनसांख्यिकी of कोई विश्वविद्यालयों in the United States.
Purdue offers दोनो undergraduate और graduate programs in over 211 प्रमुख क्षेत्रों of study, and is खूब known लिये इसके प्रतिस्पर्धी engineering curricula.
The university रै also been highly influential in America 's history of विमानन, having स्थापित the first college क्रेडिट offered in उड़ान प्रशिक्षण, the first four-year bachelor 's उपाधि in aviation, and the पहला university विमानक्षेत्र ( Purdue University विमानक्षेत्र ).
Purdue 's विमानन प्रौद्योगिकी कार्यक्रम remains एक of the सबसे प्रतिस्पर्धी aviation-specific programs in the संसार.
In the mid-20th सदी, purdue 's विमानन कार्यक्रम expanded to encompass उन्नत spaceflight technology giving rise to Purdue 's nickname, Cradle of Astronauts.
Twenty-three purdue graduates have गए on to become astronauts, including गस Grissom ( one of the original Mercury Seven astronauts ), neil आर्मस्ट्रांग ( the first व्यक्ति to walk on the चंद्रमा ), and Eugene Cernan ( the most recent व्यक्ति to चलना on the चंद्रमा ).
A sebaceous गाँठ ( ) is a term that loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( भी ज्ञात as epidermal cysts ; L72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( also known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ).
Because an epidermoid गाँठ originates in the epidermis and a pilar गाँठ originates इससे hair follicles, by definition, neither प्रकार of cyst is सख्ती a वसामय cyst.
The नाम is regarded as a misnomer as the वसीय, श्वेत, semi-solid सामग्री in दोनो of these गाँठ entities is नहीं sebum, लकिन keratin.
furthermore, अंतर्गत the microscope neither entity contains वसामय ग्रंथियों.
in practice, however, the शर्तें हैं often प्रयुक्त interchangeably.
`` सच्चा '' sebaceous cysts are relatively विरल and हैं ज्ञात as steatocystomas or, if अनेक, as steatocystoma मल्टीप्लेक्स.
आधुनिक pointe shoes.
The edge of the toe pad, जिससे is inserted between the foot and टो बक्सा for cushioning, can be देखी on the right पैर.
A pointe जूता is a type of जूता worn by बैले नर्तक जब performing pointe कार्य.
Pointe जूते developed इससे the desire लिये dancers to appear weightless and sylph -like और have evolved to enable dancers to नृत्य en pointe ( on the नुस्ख़े of their toes ) for विस्तारित अवधि of समय.
They are normally worn by female dancers, though पुरूष नर्तक may पहनें उन्हें for unorthodox भूमिकाएँ ऐसे as the भद्दा stepsisters in Cinderella, नीचे in a Midsummer रात्रि 's सपना, or men performing as women in नृत्य companies ऐसे as लेस Ballets Trockadero and grandiva.
वे हैं manufactured in a किस्में of colors, most commonly in शेड्स of लाइट pink.
This tablespoon रै a क्षमता of about 15 mL.
Measuring spoons
In the us और parts of Canada, a tablespoon is the largest type of spoon used for खाने इससे a bowl.
In the UK, Europe और सबसे राष्ट्रमंडल देशों, a tablespoon is a प्रकार of large spoon प्रायः प्रयुक्त for सेवारत.
in countries जहाँ a tablespoon is a सेवारत spoon, the nearest equivalent to the US tablespoon is either the मिठाई चमचा or the soup चमचा.
A tablespoonful, nominally the क्षमता of एक tablespoon, is commonly प्रयुक्त as a measure of आवाज़ in cooking.
It is abbreviated as T, tb, tbs, tbsp, tblsp, or tblspn.
The capacity of ordinary tablespoons is not regulated by विधि और is विषय to considerable विभिन्नता.
in the USA एक tablespoon ( measurement ईकाई ) is approximately 15 mL ; the क्षमता of an वास्तविक tablespoon ( डाइनिंग utensil ) सीमाएँ इससे 7 ml to 14 ml.
In ऑस्ट्रेलिया एक tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is 20 mL.
Harry Potter is a series of seven काल्पनिक novels लिखा by the British author J. K. रोलिंग.
The books वृत्तान्त the adventures of a wizard, हैरी कुम्हार, और उसके मित्रों रोनाल्ड Weasley और हर्माइनी Granger, सब of जिसको are विद्यार्थी at Hogwarts स्कूल of Witchcraft and wizardry.
the main स्टोरी चाप चिंताएं Harry 's quest to overcome the Dark जादूगर Lord voldemort, whose aims are to become immortal, conquer the wizarding world, subjugate non-magical लोगों, and destroy सब those who stand in his रास्ता, especially हैरी कुम्हार.
चूंकि the रिलीज of the first novel Harry कुम्हार और the Philosopher 's स्टोन on 30 जून 1997, the books have gained immense लोकप्रियता, नाजुक acclaim और वाणिज्यिक success विश्वव्यापी.
The श्रेणी रै also था कुछ share of आलोचना, सहित concern लिये the increasingly dark tone.
, the book series has sold about 450 लाख copies, making it the best-selling book series in इतिहास, and रै been अनूदित into 67 languages.
the last four किताबे consecutively set records as the fastest-selling किताबे in history.
A श्रेणी of many genres, सहित काल्पनिक और coming of आयु ( with तत्व of रहस्य, थ्रिलर, adventure, and romance ), it has अनेक सांस्कृतिक meanings and references.
According to रोलिंग, the प्रमुख theme is death.
There are also अनेक other विषयवस्तु in the series, ऐसे as पूर्वाग्रह और भ्रष्टाचार.
the initial major प्रकाशक of the books यहूद Bloomsbury in the संयुक्त किंगडम and Scholastic दबायें in the संयुक्त राज्य.
the books have चूंकि been published by many publishers विश्वव्यापी.
The books, साथ the seventh किताब split into two भाग, have महरूम made into an eight-part फिल्मी श्रेणी by Warner Bros. तस्वीरें, the highest-grossing film series of सब समय.
The series भी originated much tie-in merchandise, making the हैरी Potter brand worth in excess of $ 15 अरब.
Also due to the कामयाबी of the books और films, हैरी कुम्हार रै been used for a theme park, the wizarding World of Harry कुम्हार in Universal Parks & रिसॉर्ट 's Islands of एडवेंचर.
rs-68 होने tested at NASA 's Stennis स्पेस बीच.
The nearly transparent exhaust is due to इस इंजन 's exhaust होने ज़्यादातर superheated भाप ( water वाष्प इससे its propellants, हाइड्रोजन and oxygen )
viking 5c rocket इंजन
A प्रक्षेपास्त्र engine, or simply `` rocket '', is a जेट engine that uses only भंडारित propellant mass for forming its high speed propulsive जेट.
Rocket इंजन हैं reaction इंजन और obtain thrust in accordance with Newton 's third law.
चूंकि they need no बाह्य material to रूप उनके jet, प्रक्षेपास्त्र इंजन can be used लिये spacecraft नोदन as well as terrestrial uses, such as मिसाइलें.
सबसे rocket engines हैं आतंरिक दहन इंजन, although non-combusting forms also exist.
Rocket इंजन as a समूह have the उच्चतम exhaust velocities, are by दूर the lightest, लकिन हैं the least propellant कुशल of सब types of jet engines.
``... baby एक अधिक Time '' is a सोंग by अमरीकी recording कलाकार britney Spears.
it परोसा as स्पीयर्स 's डेब्यू सिंगल and शीर्षक track from उसके debut studio album,... Baby One More Time ( 1999 ).
लिखा by Max Martin और उत्पादित by Martin और Rami, ``... Baby One अधिक समय '' थी released on सितंबर 30, 1998, by jive Records.
बाद recording and sending a डेमो टेप साथ an अप्रयुक्त song from toni Braxton, Spears signed a multi-album deal साथ Jive.
``... baby एक अधिक समय '' is a teen pop और dance-pop सोंग that refers to a girl जो संताप breaking up with her boyfriend.
The सोंग प्राप्त generally favorable reviews इससे critics, जो praised its composition.
``... Baby One More Time '' attained वैश्विक success, reaching क्रमांक one in प्रत्येक country it charted.
it also received numerous certifications around the संसार, और is one of the best-selling singles of सब time, with over 10 million copies बेची.
An accompanying म्यूज़िक वीडियो, directed by निगेल लंड, portrays Spears as a student इससे a Catholic high school, जो starts to daydream that वो is गायन and dancing around the school, जबकि watching her love ब्याज from अफ़ार.
The म्यूज़िक वीडियो was later संदर्भित in the म्यूज़िक video of `` If u Seek Amy `` ( 2008 ), where स्पीयर्स 's fictional बेटी is वेश with a समान schoolgirl पहनावा जबकि wearing गुलाबी ribbons in her बाल.
in 2010, the म्यूज़िक वीडियो for ``... baby एक अधिक Time '' was voted the तीसरा most influential video in the history of pop music, in a पोल held by jam !.
स्पीयर्स रै performed ``... Baby One More समय '' in a number of live दिखावे and in all of उसके कॉन्सर्ट tours.
it was the encore of the... baby एक अधिक समय Tour ( 1999 ) and Dream भीतर a Dream दौरे ( 2001 ) ; स्पीयर्स भी performed remixed संस्करण of the song during the Oops !...
i Did It again World दौरे ( 2000 ), the Onyx होटल दौरे ( 2004 ), The m+m 's Tour ( 2007 ), the Circus Starring Britney Spears ( 2009 ), और the Femme fatale Tour ( 2011 ).
``... Baby एक More समय '' थी nominated लिये a Grammy Award लिये Best मादा Pop Vocal Performance, और has महरूम शामिल in सूचियाँ by ब्लेंडर, रोलिंग स्टोन and VH1.
it has महरूम noted for redefining the sound of लेट 1990s music.
स्पीयर्स has named ``... Baby एक अधिक समय '' as एक of उसके favorite गीतों इससे her करियर.
It was also the फाइनल सोंग to be played on the BBC 's म्यूज़िक programme Top of the Pops.
Cholera is an infection in the small आंत caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae.
the प्रमुख लक्षण are watery diarrhea and vomiting.
हस्तांतरण occurs primarily by drinking water or खाने खाना कि has been contaminated by the feces ( बर्बाद product ) of an infected person, including एक with no apparent लक्षण.
the गंभीरता of the अतिसार and vomiting can सीसे to rapid निर्जलीकरण and electrolyte imbalance, और death in some cases.
The प्राथमिक treatment is oral पुनर्जलीकरण चिकित्सा, typically with मौखिक पुनर्जलीकरण solution, to बदलें जल और electrolytes.
if this is not tolerated or करता not provide सुधार तेज़ पर्याप्त, intravenous fluids can भी be used.
Antibacterial दवाएँ are फायदेमंद in those साथ कठोर disease to shorten its अवधि और severity.
विश्वव्यापी, it affects 3–5 लाख people और causes 100,000–130,000 deaths a साल.
Cholera थी one of the earliest infections to be studied by epidemiological विधि.
the चित्र of डोरियन Gray is the तभी प्रकाशित novel by Oscar Wilde, appearing as the सीसे story in Lippincott 's मासिक पत्रिका on 20 June 1890, मुद्रित as the July 1890 issue of this magazine.
the magazine 's सम्पादक feared the स्टोरी was अभद्र as सुपुर्द, so वे censored roughly 500 शब्द, without Wilde 's ज्ञान, before प्रकाशन.
But भी with that, the story was still greeted with outrage by अंग्रेजों reviewers, कुछ of जिसको सुझाया that Wilde should be prosecuted on moral grounds, leading Wilde to defend the novel aggressively in letters to the British दबायें.
वाइल्ड later संशोधित the story लिये book प्रकाशन, making substantial alterations, हटाना विवादास्पद passages, adding नई chapters and सहित an aphoristic preface which has चूंकि become famous in its अपना सही.
The amended version was published by Ward, Lock और Company in April 1891.
कुछ scholars believe that Wilde होता आज have चाही us to read the version he originally submitted to lippincott 's.
the अनोखा tells of a young man नामित Dorian धूसर, the विषय of a पेंटिंग by artist Basil hallward.
बेसिल is impressed by डोरियन 's सौंदर्य और becomes infatuated साथ उसे, believing उसके सौंदर्य is responsible लिये a new mode in his आर्ट.
Dorian meets Lord हेनरी wotton, a dost of बेसिल 's, and becomes enthralled by रब Henry 's संसार view.
Espousing a new hedonism, रब Henry suggests the तभी बाते लायक pursuing in जीवन are beauty और fulfilment of the होश.
realizing कि one day his सौंदर्य will फीका, डोरियन ( whimsically ) expresses a ख्वाहिश to sell उसके आत्मा to ensure the portrait Basil रै चित्रित would आयु बल्कि than he.
Dorian 's wish is fulfilled, and जब he subsequently pursues a जीवन of विलासिता, the पोर्ट्रेट serves as a reminder of the प्रभाव प्रत्येक act रै upon उसके आत्मा, with प्रत्येक सिन displayed as a disfigurement of his form, or through a sign of aging.
the Picture of Dorian Gray is माना a कार्य of classic गोथिक fiction साथ a strong Faustian थीम.
sári Gábor ( born 6 February 1917 ), known as Zsa ज़ा Gabor ( ), is a Hungarian -born अमरीकी अभिनेत्री who acted in supporting roles in फिल्मों, on ब्रॉडवे, and occasionally on television.
गैबर was also a socialite.
वो began her stage करियर in वियना at age 15, और was पहनाया Miss हंगेरियाई in 1936.
She emigrated to the United States in 1941 और became a sought-after actress with `` यूरोपीय फ्लेयर और स्टाइल '', साथ a personality कि `` exuded charm and grace ''.
उसके first movie role थी as supporting अभिनेत्री in Lovely to Look At.
She बाद acted in We 're नहीं शादीशुदा !
and निभाई एक of her few अग्रणी भूमिकाएँ in moulin Rouge ( 1952 ), directed by John Huston, who वर्णित उसके as a `` विश्वसनीय '' अभिनेत्री.
besides उसके फिल्मी and television appearances, she is best known लिये having nine husbands, सहित होटल magnate Conrad हिल्टन and कर्ता जार्ज Sanders.
She once stated, `` मेन have सदा liked me and i have always liked मेन.
But i like a mannish man, a man who knows कैसा to talk to and treat a स्त्री – not just a man with muscles. ''
Bruce Lee ( traditional : 李小龍 ; born ली jun-fan ; 27 November 1940 – 20 जुलाई 1973 ) थी a Chinese अमरीकी martial कलाकार, actor, martial arts प्रशिक्षक, पारस, और फिल्मकार.
The founder of जीत Kune Do, ली was the son of cantonese ओपेरा स्टार Lee Hoi-Chuen.
He is widely माना by टीकाकारों, आलोचकों, media और अन्य martial artists to be एक of the सबसे influential martial कलाकारों of all समय, and a pop संस्कृति प्रतीक of the 20th century.
He is प्रायः credited with helping to बदलें the way Asians were presented in American films.
Lee थी born in Chinatown, सैन फ्रांसिस्को on 27 नवम्बर 1940 to अभिभावक इससे हांग Kong and थी उठाया in कोलून साथ his परिवार जबतक his लेट teens.
he was introduced to the film industry by his पिता and appeared in several films as a चाइल्ड actor.
Lee स्थानांतरित to the United राज्य at the age of 18 to प्राप्त उसके higher education, और it थी during इस time that he began teaching martial कला.
उसके हांग Kong और Hollywood -produced films elevated the परंपरागत हांग काँग martial arts film to a new स्तर of लोकप्रियता and acclaim, sparking a surge of interest in Chinese martial कला in the West in the 1970s.
The direction और टोन of his films बदला and influenced martial arts और martial कला films in Hong Kong and the बाकी of the संसार.
He is noted for his भूमिकाएँ in पाँच feature-length films : Lo वेई 's The Big Boss ( 1971 ) और मुट्ठी of फ़्यूरी ( 1972 ) ; Way of the ड्रैगन ( 1972 ), directed और लिखा by Lee ; warner Brothers ' Enter the ड्रैगन ( 1973 ) और The Game of मौत ( 1978 ), both directed by रॉबर्ट Clouse.
Lee became an iconic figure known throughout the संसार, विशेषकर among the चाइनीज, as he portrayed Chinese nationalism in his films.
He initially trained in wing Chun, but बाद अस्वीकृत well-defined martial आर्ट styles, favouring बजाय the उपयोग of तकनीकों इससे विभिन्न sources, in the spirit of his personal martial arts दर्शनशास्त्र, जिससे he dubbed जीत Kune do ( the रास्ता of the Intercepting मुट्ठी ).
ली held डुअल नागरिकता of Hong Kong और the United राज्य.
he died in Kowloon टोंग on 20 July 1973 at आयु 32.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary बीमारी ( copd ), भी known as दीर्घकालिक obstructive फेफड़ों बीमारी ( ठंडा ), दीर्घकालिक obstructive airway बीमारी ( coad ), chronic airflow limitation ( कैलोरी ) और दीर्घकालिक obstructive respiratory disease ( cord ), is the occurrence of दीर्घकालिक bronchitis or emphysema, a pair of commonly co-existing diseases of the lungs in which the airways narrow over समय.
इस हद airflow to and from the फेफड़े, causing shortness of साँस ( dyspnea ).
in नैदानिक practice, COPD is पारिभाषित by its characteristically कम airflow on lung function परीक्षण.
in कंट्रास्ट to दमा, this limitation is poorly reversible और प्रायः gets progressively worse over समय.
COPD is caused by noxious particles or gas, सबसे commonly from तम्बाकू smoking, जिससे triggers an abnormal inflammatory response in the फेफड़ों.
the निदान of copd requires फेफड़ों function tests.
Important management रणनीति are धूम्रपान cessation, vaccinations, पुनर्वास, and drug चिकित्सा ( प्रायः using inhalers ).
कुछ patients go on to आवश्यकता long-term oxygen therapy or फेफड़ों प्रत्यारोपण.
विश्वव्यापी, COPD क्रमित as the छठे leading कारण of death in 1990.
it is प्रक्षिप्त to become the fourth अग्रणी कारण of death विश्वव्यापी by 2030, due to an increase in धूम्रपान rates और जनसांख्यिकी परिवर्तन in अनेक countries.
COPD is the third अग्रणी कारण of death in the u.S., और the economic burden of copd in the u.S. in 2007 थी $ 42.6 billion in स्वास्थ्य care लागत और खोया उत्पादकता.
Annelies `` Anne '' मारी Frank (, ?, ; 12 जून 1929early कूच 1945 ) is एक of the सबसे discussed Jewish पीड़ितों of the Holocaust.
Her diary has महरूम the आधार लिये several plays and films.
born in the city of फ्रैंकफर्ट am प्रमुख in Weimar Germany, she जिया most of उसके जीवन in or near Amsterdam, in the Netherlands.
Born a German national, फ़्रैंक खोया her नागरिकता in 1941.
She gained अंतरराष्ट्रीय fame मरणोपरांत after उसके diary थी published.
it दस्तावेज़ उसके अनुभवों hiding during the German occupation of the नीदरलैंड्स in World War II.
The Frank family स्थानांतरित इससे जर्मनी to एम्सटर्डम in 1933, the year the nazis gained control over जर्मनी.
by the beginning of 1940, वे were trapped in Amsterdam by the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands.
as persecutions of the Jewish जनसांख्यिकी increased in जुलाई 1942, the family went into hiding in the छुपा कक्ष of Anne 's father, Otto Frank 's, दफ्तर भवन.
बाद two सालो, the group was betrayed and transported to concentration शिविरों.
ऐनी Frank and उसके सिस्टर, margot, यहूद eventually transferred to the Bergen-Belsen विशेषज्ञता शिविर, where वे died of typhus in कूच 1945.
ओटो फ़्रैंक, the तभी survivor of the family, returned to Amsterdam after the war to ढूँढें कि ऐनी 's diary था महरूम saved, and his प्रयत्न led to its publication in 1947.
it was अनूदित from its असली Dutch और first published in अंग्रेज़ी in 1952 as The Diary of a Young Girl.
It has since been translated into अनेक भाषाएं.
The diary, जिससे थी दिए to Anne on उसके 13th जन्मदिवस, chronicles उसके जीवन from 12 June 1942 जबतक 1 August 1944.
कर्ट 's signature
कर्ट डोनाल्ड Cobain ( February 20, 1967 – April 5, 1994 ) थी an American musician and कलाकार, best ज्ञात as the lead सिंगर, guitarist और primary songwriter of the grunge band निर्वाण.
Cobain formed निर्वाण with krist Novoselic in Aberdeen, वॉशिंगटन in 1985 and established it as भाग of the सिएटल music झाँकी, having its debut album Bleach released on the independent record label sub पॉप in 1989.
After हस्ताक्षर साथ प्रमुख लेबल dgc रिकॉर्ड, the band found breakthrough success साथ `` Smells Like टीन Spirit `` from its दूसरी एल्बम Nevermind ( 1991 ).
Following the कामयाबी of Nevermind, निर्वाण was labeled `` the फ्लैगशिप band '' of पीढी X, and Cobain hailed as `` the प्रवक्ता of a पीढी ''.
Cobain, however, was often असहज और कुंठित, believing his message और कलाकारी दृष्टि to have been misinterpreted by the public, साथ उसके personal मुद्दे प्रायः विषय to media ध्यान.
he challenged Nirvana 's दर्शक with इसके फाइनल studio एल्बम In utero ( 1993 ).
दौरान the पिछला सालो of उसके life, कोबेन struggled साथ हेरोइन addiction, बीमारी and depression.
he भी था परेशानी coping with उसके fame और पब्लिक image, और the professional और lifelong निजी pressures surrounding himself और his wife, संगीतकार कोर्टनी प्रेम.
On अप्रैल 8, 1994, कोबेन थी मिला मुर्दे at his home in Seattle, the शिकार of what was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head.
the circumstances of उसके death at age 27 have become a टॉपिक of public fascination और बहस.
Since their डेब्यू, निर्वाण, साथ Cobain as a songwriter, has sold over 25 लाख एल्बम in the U.S., and over 50 लाख worldwide.
रेडियल इंजन timing and cam यांत्रिकी.
click लिये पूरा resolution animation.
Radial engine of a biplane
निपुण rod ( कतरा ), स्लेव और balances इससे a two-row, fourteen-cylinder pratt & व्हिटनी Twin बर्र
The radial engine is a reciprocating प्रकार आतंरिक combustion engine configuration in जिससे the cylinders पाइंट outward इससे a central crankshaft like the spokes of a व्हील.
It resembles a stylized स्टार जब viewed इससे the सामने, and is पुकारा a `` स्टार engine '' ( जर्मनी sternmotor ) in some भाषाएं.
The रेडियल विन्यास थी very commonly used in वायुयान engines पहले टर्बाइन engines became predominant.
The सुनहरी लड़कियों is an अमरीकी sitcom, निर्मित by सुसान हैरिस, कि originally aired on NBC from सितंबर 13, 1985, to May 9, 1992.
अभिनीत bea आर्थर, बेट्टी श्वेत, Rue mcclanahan and estelle getty, the show centers on चार पुरानी महिलाओं sharing a home in Miami, फ्लोरिडा.
It was produced by witt/thomas/harris प्रोडक्शन्स, in संघ साथ touchstone Television, और पॉल Junger witt, Tony Thomas, और Harris परोसा as the असली executive निर्माता.
the सुनहरी लड़कियों received critical acclaim throughout most of इसके चलाएं and won several पुरस्कार, including the Primetime एमी Award लिये Outstanding Comedy श्रेणी twice.
it भी जीती तीन Golden Globe Awards लिये Best Television श्रेणी – musical or Comedy.
All चार stars each received an Emmy Award throughout the series ' run और था अनेक nominations.
the series भी क्रमित among the शीर्ष टेन highest-rated कार्यक्रम लिये छह out of its सात seasons.
Deepwater drilling is the process of oil और गैस exploration और production in गहराइयों of more than 500 feet.
by this परिभाषा, वहीँ हैं लगभग 600 deepwater कुएं in the गल्फ of Mexico.
It has महरूम economically infeasible for अनेक years, but साथ rising आयल कीमतें, more कंपनियाँ हैं investing in इस क्षेत्रफल.
प्रमुख companies working in इस sector include Diamond offshore, TransOcean, और Baker ह्यूजेस.
There हैं basically two kinds of mobile deepwater drilling rigs : semi-submersible drilling rigs और drillships.
खुदाई can भी be performed इससे a fixed-position संस्थापना such as a फ्लोटिंग spar ( platform ) or tension-leg platform.
Recent उद्योग analysis रै estimated कि the कुल expenditure in the global deepwater अवसंरचना market will reach $ 145bn in 2011.
“Not सब आयल is accessible on land or in उथले water.
You can ढूँढें some आयल जमा buried गहन अंतर्गत the समंदर floor.”... using सोनिक उपकरण, oil कंपनियाँ determine the drilling sites सबसे संभावित to उपज oil.
तब वे use a मोबाईल offshore drilling ईकाई ( MODU ) to खुदाई the initial well.
कुछ इकाई हैं परिवर्तित into उत्पादन rigs, meaning वे स्विच इससे खुदाई for आयल to capturing oil एकबार it 's found.
सबसे of the समय, the oil company will replace the MODU with a अधिक स्थाई oil production rig to कैप्चर oil.”... the MODU 's जॉब is to drill bas into the ocean 's मंजिल to ढूँढें oil deposits.
The part of the ड्रिल कि extends नीचे the डेक and through the water is called the riser.
The riser allows for drilling fluids to move between the floor and the rig.
इंजीनियर्स lower a ड्रिल string -- a series of पाइप designed to ड्रिल bas to the आयल जमा -- through the riser.”
“The expansion of deepwater drilling is happening despite accidents in offshore फ़ील्ड... ”
in 2010 a large explosion occurred killing 11 मजदूर and spilling millions of गैलन of oil into the Gulf of मैक्सिको जबकि a bp आयल rig थी खुदाई in deep waters.
“... despite the risks, the deepwater drilling ट्रेंड is spreading in the Mediterranean and बंद the coast of East Africa after a string of huge discoveries of प्राकृतिक gas.”
“the कारण लिये the resumption of ऐसे drilling, विश्लेषक कह, is continuing high demand for energy worldwide.”
America needs the oil so it is almost necessary to फेस the ऊँची risks that आइये with deepwater खुदाई in अनुक्रम for अमेरिकी to continue to carry on their रोज जीवनदान.
“the Energy Department recently प्रक्षिप्त that गल्फ आयल उत्पादन would expand इससे इसके 2011 level of 1.3 million barrels a दिन, still nearly a quarter of total domestic production, to 2 लाख barrels a दिन by 2020.”
deepwater खुदाई affects the पर्यावरण in both ऋणात्मक and positive ways.
हालांकि deepwater खुदाई rarely causes oil spills it is स्टिल a hazardous संभावित निष्कर्ष.
Oil spills result in आयल sinking to the नीचे of the समंदर smothering plant जीवन leaving मछली without food और आश्रय to जीवित.
On the other hand deepwater खुदाई प्रभाव the environment in a धनात्मक ways too.
in समय एकबार the deepwater oil खूब is नहीं in use anymore plants होगा grow on and around the खूब making a गुफा or cavern जैसे shelter आदर्श for पशु to thrive in.
Deepwater खुदाई also lets us देखिए the depths of the ocean मंजिल that हैं hardly ever seen.
”cameras on रोवर्स at the bottom of the कुएं रिकार्ड फुटेज और लो फ़ोटो of विरल fish कि are in वहीँ natural habitat, giving वैज्ञानिक a look at animals वे rarely seen” ( Chevron Corporation ). ''
Monica Samille lewinsky ( born जुलाई 23, 1973 ) is an American स्त्री with whom United राज्य President Bill क्लिंटन admitted to having had an `` improper संबंध '' while she worked at the श्वेत हाउस in 1995 and 1996.
The affair and इसके repercussions ( which included क्लिंटन 's महाभियोग ) became known as the lewinsky scandal.
Francis अल्बर्ट `` Frank '' Sinatra,, ( दिसम्बर 12, 1915 – May 14, 1998 ) थी an American सिंगर और film कर्ता.
शुरूआत उसके musical करियर in the swing era with हैरी James और टॉमी Dorsey, सिनात्रा मिला unprecedented कामयाबी as a सोलो artist from the जल्दी to mid-1940s बाद होने हस्ताक्षरित to कोलंबिया रिकॉर्ड in 1943.
Being the आइडल of the `` bobby soxers ``, he released his first एल्बम, the Voice of फ़्रैंक Sinatra in 1946.
उसके पेशेवर करियर था stalled by the 1950s, but it थी पुनर्जन्म in 1953 बाद he won the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये Best supporting Actor लिये his performance in इससे यहाँ to शाश्वत.
He हस्ताक्षरित साथ Capitol रिकॉर्ड in 1953 and released अनेक critically lauded albums ( such as In the Wee Small Hours, गीतों लिये Swingin ' प्रेमियों !, आइये मक्खी with me, Only the Lonely और Nice 'n ' Easy ).
Sinatra left Capitol to found his own रिकार्ड लेबल, Reprise रिकॉर्ड in 1961 ( ढूंढना success with albums such as Ring-a-Ding-Ding !, सिनात्रा at the Sands and Francis अल्बर्ट सिनात्रा & अंतोनियो कार्लोस Jobim ), toured internationally, थी a founding member of the Rat Pack and fraternized साथ हस्तियाँ और statesmen, सहित John F. कैनेडी.
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965, recorded the retrospective September of my Years, starred in the एमी -winning television खास फ़्रैंक सिनात्रा : A Man and His Music, and scored हिट्स with `` अजनबी in the रात्रि `` और `` my रास्ता ``.
साथ sales of his music dwindling and after appearing in अनेक poorly received films, Sinatra retired लिये the first समय in 1971.
Two years later, however, he came out of retirement और in 1973 अंकित several albums, स्कोरिंग a शीर्ष 40 hit with `` ( थीम From ) नई York, New York `` in 1980.
using his Las वेगास shows as a घर base, he toured दोनो within the United States and internationally, until a छोटी समय before his मौत in 1998.
सिनात्रा भी forged a highly कामयाब करियर as a फिल्मी कर्ता.
बाद winning Best Supporting कर्ता in 1953, he also garnered a नामांकन लिये बेहतरीन Actor for The Man with the सुनहरी भुजा, and critical acclaim for his performance in the मंचूरियन प्रत्याशी.
he भी starred in ऐसे musicals as High समाज, Pal Joey, यारों and डॉल और on the Town.
सिनात्रा was honored at the कैनेडी बीच Honors in 1983 और was awarded the अध्यक्षीय पदक of Freedom by रोनाल्ड reagan in 1985 और the congressional Gold पदक in 1997.
He थी the प्राप्तकर्ता of ग्यारह ग्रैमी Awards, including the Grammy trustees पुरस्कार, ग्रैमी लेजेंड पुरस्कार and the Grammy Lifetime Achievement पुरस्कार.
Sinatra is भी एक of world’s best-selling artists of सब time, having बेची अधिक than 150 million नक़ल worldwide.
Typical cornhole फलक
Cornhole, also known as सेम bag टॉस, corn टॉस, baggo or बैग, is a lawn खेल in which players take turns फेंकना corn छेद बैग at a raised मंच with a छेद in the दूर end.
a bag in the hole स्कोर 3 points, जबकि one on the मंच स्कोर 1 पाइंट.
खेल continues जबतक a team or player पहुँच the score of 21.
The अमरीकी Gold Eagle is an आधिकारिक सुनहरा bullion coin of the United राज्य.
प्राधिकृत under the Gold bullion सिक्का Act of 1985, it थी first released by the संयुक्त States Mint in 1986.
बिक्रम योग is a system of योग कि बिक्रम Choudhury synthesized from traditional hatha yoga तकनीकों और popularized शुरूआत in the जल्दी 1970s.
सब बिक्रम Yoga classes run लिये 90 minutes और consist of the वही श्रेणी of 26 postures and 2 श्वास exercises.
बिक्रम Yoga is ideally practiced in a रूम heated to 105°F ( ≈ 40.6°C ) with a आर्द्रता of 40 %,.
क्रिस्टोफर Michael massey ( born 26 जनवरी 1990 ) is an अमरीकी कर्ता, हास्य and rapper best known for अभिनीत as माइकल Barret in निकलोडियन टेलीविज़न series Zoey 101.
massey रै प्राप्त many awards और nomination including a यंग Artist पुरस्कार और Emmy पुरस्कार nominations.
He is also ज्ञात for appearing in several commercials in the जल्दी 2000s.
a conventional teaspoon बना of बेदाग स्टील.
a teaspoon is an मद of cutlery and/or a measuring instrument, as well as a unit of मापन of आवाज़ in some countries and कस्टम.
a fern is any एक or अधिक of a समूह of about 12,000 प्रजाति of पौधे belonging to the वनस्पति group known as Pteridophyta.
नापसंद mosses, वे have xylem and phloem ( making them vascular plants ).
They have तना, पत्ते, and roots like अन्य vascular पौधे.
Ferns reproduce via बीजाणुओं and have neither seeds nor flowers.
By far the largest समूह of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns, but ferns as पारिभाषित here ( also पुकारा monilophytes ) include horsetails, whisk ferns, marattioid ferns, और ophioglossoid ferns.
the पद pteridophyte भी refers to ferns और a few other seedless vascular पौधे ( देखिए classification section नीचे ).
ferns first appear in the चट्टान record 360 लाख सालो ago in the carboniferous लकिन अनेक of the वर्तमान परिवारों और प्रजाति did not appear until roughly 145 लाख years पहले in the early Cretaceous ( बाद flowering plants आए to dominate many environments ).
Ferns are नहीं of major आर्थिक महत्व, लकिन कुछ are grown or gathered लिये खाना, as ornamental plants, लिये remediating contaminated soils, और have महरूम the विषय of research लिये their ability to हटाएँ कुछ रासायनिक pollutants from the air.
कुछ are significant weeds.
They भी खेल a भूमिका in mythology, आयुर्विज्ञान, and art.
चपटा roofs in इसराईल
Flat छत in लॉस Angeles
a flat छत is a type of covering for a भवन.
in कंट्रास्ट to the more sloped form of roof, a चपटा roof is आड़ा or nearly horizontal.
The slope of a छत is properly known as इसके pitch : Roofs जिससे हैं nearly चपटा हैं known as low-pitch roofs ( as the angle of slope increases, so the पिच is said to increase ).
कोई चादर of सामग्री प्रयुक्त to cover a चपटा or low-pitched roof is प्रायः known as a झिल्ली and the primary purpose of ये membranes is to waterproof the roof area.
Materials that कवर flat roofs typically allow the जल to run बंद from a पतला inclination or camber into a gutter system.
Water इससे some चपटा roofs ऐसे as on garden sheds sometimes flows freely off the किनारे of a छत, though gutter प्रणालियों are of advantage in keeping दोनो दीवारें and foundations शुष्क.
ड्रेनेज on smaller roofs often सीसे जल सीधे onto the ground, or better, into a specially made soakaway.
Gutters on larger roofs usually lead जल into the rainwater drainage system of any निर्मित up क्षेत्रफल.
Occasionally चपटा roofs though are designed to collect water in a pool, प्रायः for aesthetic purposes, or for rainwater buffering.
Flat roofs मौजूद सब over the संसार और each क्षेत्रफल has its अपना tradition or वरीयता लिये सामग्री used.
In warmer climes where rainfall is कम and freezing is unlikely to occur, अनेक चपटा roofs are बस built of चिनाई or concrete and this is good at keeping out the ऊष्मा of the sun and सस्ती और easy to निर्माण where timber is not readily available.
In areas जहाँ the छत could become saturated by rain and leak, or जहाँ जल soaked into the brickwork could फ्रीज to बर्फ and यूँ lead to 'blowing ' ( breaking up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the expansion of बर्फ as it फ़ॉर्म ) ये roofs हैं not उपयुक्त.
traditionally सबसे flat roofs in the western world मेक use of तारकोल or अधिक usually तारकोल पेपर लागू over छत अलंकार to keep a भवन watertight.
the तारकोल or tarpaper is in turn covered in बजरी to keep the सूर्य 's ऊष्मा, uv किरणें और weather off it and helps protect it from cracking or blistering और degradation.
Roof अलंकार is प्रायः of plywood, chipboard or OSB boards ( OSB = उन्मुख strand फलक, भी ज्ञात as Sterling फलक ) of around 18mm thickness.
the तारकोल कोटिंग is applied in एक or अधिक coats as a hot liquid, heated in a tar kettle, or as चादरें of tar impregnated 'paper ' glued bas और sealed together at joints by hot तारकोल - once it has cooled, the बजरी is स्प्रेड evenly over it.
a main reason लिये failure of ये traditional roofs is अनभिज्ञता or lack of maintenance where people or कार्यक्रम कारण the बजरी to be स्थानांतरित or removed इससे the tar or tarpaper waterproofing, यूँ exposing it to मौसम और sun whereupon cracking and blistering occurs over समय and आखिरकार जल gets in.
tarpaper is प्रायः a 'paper ' or fibre material soaked or impregnated in tar.
As बजरी can नहीं protect tarpaper surfaces जहाँ they वृद्धि खड़ा इससे the छत such as on मुंडेर दीवारें or upstands, tarpaper variants are produced साथ fine gravel applied to the hot तारकोल during the process of manufacture ऐसे that a permanent परत of gravel is stuck to it in order to give it ongoing सुरक्षा.
Tarpapers vary in विशेषता as does the workmanship and training of those applying it to produce अधिक or less successful परिणाम.
In कुछ सूक्ष्म climates or छायांकित क्षेत्रों ये rather 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can पिछला well in संबंध to the cost of सामग्री खरीदें and लागत of लेटा उन्हें, however the cost of आधुनिक membranes ऐसे as EPDM रै आइये down over recent सालो to मेक them अधिक और अधिक affordable.
There हैं अभी more firms supplying modern alternatives और there is generally a growing जागरूकता of their प्रदर्शन and उपलब्धता.
if a लीक does occur on a चपटा छत then क्षति प्रायः goes unnoticed लिये long अवधि of time during जिससे जल penetrates और soaks the decking and कोई इन्सुलेशन and/or ढांचा beneath it.
इस can lead to expensive क्षति इससे the rot which often develops and if बाएँ can weaken the roof ढांचा.
वहीँ हैं भी various health risks to लोगों and animals breathing the सांचे spores : the severity of इस स्वास्थ्य risk remains a debated पाइंट.
One problem साथ maintaining चपटा roofs is that if water करता घुस the barrier covering ( be it परंपरागत or a आधुनिक झिल्ली ) it can सफर a long way before causing दृश्य क्षति or leaking into a भवन where it can be देखी.
Thus it is नहीं आसान to see where it is leaking in अनुक्रम to repair it.
एकबार underlying roof अलंकार is soaked it often sags causing a further संग्रहण or puddling of water in that क्षेत्रफल और the प्रॉब्लम worsens.
a cd-rom ( ) is a pre-pressed compact disc जिससे contains आंकड़ा.
the name is an acronym जिससे stands for `` Compact डिस्क read-only memory ``.
Computers can read cd-roms, लकिन can नहीं लिखें on them.
cd-roms are popularly प्रयुक्त to distribute computer तन्त्र, including वीडियो खेल और मल्टीमीडिया अनुप्रयोग, हालांकि कोई आंकड़ा can be stored ( up to the capacity सीमा of a डिस्क ).
कुछ CDs, called उन्नत cds, hold both computer data और ऑडियो with the latter सक्षम of होने निभाई on a cd खिलाड़ी, जबकि data ( ऐसे as software or डिजिटल video ) is only usable on a computer ( ऐसे as आईएसओ 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ).
the Yellow किताब is the तकनीकी मानक कि defines the स्वरूप of cd-roms.
एक of a set of color-bound किताबे that contain the तकनीकी specifications लिये all cd formats, the Yellow किताब, created by सोनी and Philips, was the पहला एक्सटेंशन of कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क Digital Audio.
it adapted the format to hold any रूप of data.
Joanne `` jo '' Rowling ( ), ( born 31 जुलाई 1965 ), pen नाम J. K. Rowling, is a British novelist, बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the author of the Harry कुम्हार काल्पनिक श्रेणी.
the कुम्हार किताबे have gained विश्वव्यापी ध्यान, won multiple पुरस्कार, और बेची more than 400 लाख नक़ल.
वे have become the best-selling book श्रेणी in इतिहास, and been the basis for a श्रेणी of films जिससे रै become the highest-grossing फिल्मी श्रेणी in इतिहास.
रोलिंग had overall स्वीकृति on the scripts as खूब as maintaining creative कंट्रोल by सेवारत as a निर्माता on the final instalment.
Born in Yate, Gloucestershire, Rowling थी working as a शोधकर्ता and bilingual secretary for Amnesty International जब she conceived the विचार for the हैरी कुम्हार series on a delayed train from Manchester to लंदन in 1990.
The seven-year काल that followed entailed the death of उसके माँ, divorce from उसके first husband और poverty until रोलिंग समाप्त the first अनोखा in the series, हैरी कुम्हार and the पारस 's स्टोन ( 1997 ).
Rowling subsequently प्रकाशित 6 sequels—the last, हैरी कुम्हार and the deathly hallows ( 2007 ) —as well as 3 पूरक to the series.
in 2012, Rowling parted साथ her agency and resumed लिखने in the form of a tragicomedy अनोखा aimed at adult readership, entitled the Casual Vacancy.
रोलिंग has कहा वो is फिलहाल working on two books—one aimed लिये adults, the अन्य लिये children younger than the Harry कुम्हार audience, और she expects the latter to be published first.
रोलिंग has led a `` rags to riches `` जीवन story, in which she progressed from जीना on राज्य लाभ to multi-millionaire status within पाँच years.
She is the संयुक्त किंगडम 's best-selling author चूंकि records began, साथ बिक्री in excess of £238m.
The 2008 Sunday Times समृद्ध List estimated रोलिंग 's सौभाग्य at £560 million ( $ 798 million ), ranking उसके as the twelfth richest woman in the United Kingdom.
Forbes क्रमित रोलिंग as the forty-eighth most शक्तिशाली हस्ती of 2007, और समय पत्रिका नामित her as a runner-up for इसके 2007 Person of the Year, noting the social, moral, and political inspiration she रै given उसके fans.
in October 2010, Rowling थी नामित the `` सबसे influential Woman in ब्रिटेन '' by अग्रणी पत्रिका सम्पादक.
She रै become a notable लोकसेवक, supporting ऐसे charities as Comic राहत, एक Parent Families, अनेक काठिन्य समाज of Great Britain and lumos ( formerly the Children 's ऊँची Level समूह ).
Auburndale is a नगर in polk County, फ्लोरिडा, संयुक्त राज्य.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 11,032 at the 2000 census.
According to the U.S जनसांख्यिकी estimates of 2005, the नगर था a जनसांख्यिकी of 12,381.
It is part of the Lakeland – शीत हेवन महानगर सांख्यिकीय Area.
Hurricane इसाबेल ( 2003 ) as seen इससे orbit during expedition 7 of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Space Station.
the eye, eyewall, और surrounding rainbands, characteristics of tropical cyclones, हैं clearly दृश्य in इस दृश्य from space.
a तीव्र चक्रवात is a storm system characterized by a low-pressure बीच घिरी by a spiral व्यवस्था of thunderstorms कि produce strong हवाएँ और heavy बरसात.
तीव्र cyclones strengthen when जल evaporated from the ocean is released as the संतृप्त air rises, resulting in संघनन of जल वाष्प contained in the moist एयर.
They are fueled by a अलग heat यांत्रिकी than other cyclonic windstorms such as nor'easters, यूरोपीय windstorms, and ध्रुवीय lows.
the characteristic कि separates tropical cyclones from अन्य cyclonic प्रणालियों is that at कोई ऊँचाई in the atmosphere, the center of a tropical चक्रवात will be warmer than इसके surroundings ; a घटना पुकारा `` warm core `` तूफ़ान systems.
the term `` तीव्र '' refers दोनो to the geographical उत्पत्ति of ये प्रणालियों, which usually form in tropical regions of the globe, and to उनके formation in maritime तीव्र एयर masses.
The term `` cyclone '' refers to such तूफ़ान ' cyclonic प्रकृति, with counterclockwise हवा flow in the Northern Hemisphere और clockwise wind flow in the दक्षिणी Hemisphere.
The विपरीत direction of the हवा flow is a परिणाम of the Coriolis force.
depending on इसके स्थान और strength, a tropical चक्रवात is referred to by names such as hurricane (, ), तूफ़ान ( ), tropical तूफ़ान, cyclonic storm, तीव्र अवसाद, and simply cyclone.
While तीव्र cyclones can produce extremely powerful हवाएँ और मूसलाधार बरसात, वे हैं भी able to produce ऊँची waves, damaging तूफ़ान surge, and tornadoes.
वे develop over large bodies of warm water, और lose उनके strength if वे move over जमीन due to increased surface friction और घाटा of the गरम ocean as an energy सोर्स.
This is क्यों तटीय regions can receive significant क्षति इससे a tropical cyclone, जबकि अंतर्देशीय regions हैं relatively सुरक्षित from receiving strong हवाएँ.
भारी rains, however, can produce significant बाढ़ अंतर्देशीय, और तूफ़ान surges can produce extensive coastal flooding up to इससे the coastline.
हालांकि उनके effects on इंसान populations can be devastating, tropical cyclones can relieve सूखा शर्तें.
वे also carry ऊष्मा उर्जा away इससे the tropics and transport it toward शीतोष्ण latitudes, which makes them an important part of the वैश्विक atmospheric परिसंचरण mechanism.
as a result, तीव्र cyclones सहायता to maintain संतुलन in the धरती 's troposphere, and to maintain a अपेक्षाकृत stable और warm temperature worldwide.
अनेक तीव्र cyclones develop जब the atmospheric conditions around a weak disturbance in the माहौल are favorable.
The background पर्यावरण is modulated by climatological cycles और patterns such as the Madden-Julian दोलन, El Niño-Southern दोलन, and the Atlantic multidecadal oscillation.
अन्य रूप जब अन्य types of cyclones acquire tropical characteristics.
तीव्र प्रणालियों हैं तब स्थानांतरित by steering winds in the troposphere ; if the conditions remain favorable, the tropical disturbance intensifies, और can भी develop an eye.
on the अन्य end of the spectrum, if the शर्तें around the प्रणाली deteriorate or the tropical चक्रवात makes landfall, the प्रणाली weakens और आखिरकार dissipates.
It is not संभावित to artificially induce the dissipation of these systems साथ वर्तमान technology.
किर्क Douglas ( born issur Danielovitch, ; दिसम्बर 9, 1916 ) is an American स्टेज और फिल्मी actor, फिल्मी निर्माता और author.
His popular films include Out of the पास्ट ( 1947 ), चैंपियन ( 1949 ), इक्का in the छेद ( 1951 ), The Bad और the खूबसूरत ( 1952 ), 20,000 लीग अंतर्गत the Sea ( 1954 ), Lust लिये Life ( 1956 ), राहें of Glory ( 1957 ), Gunfight at the o.k. corral ( 1957 ), the वाइकिंग्स ( 1958 ), स्पार्टाकस ( 1960 ), निर्जन हैं the Brave ( 1962 ), Seven Days in May ( 1964 ), The नायक of telemark ( 1965 ) और Tough Guys ( 1986 ).
He is no.17 on the American Film Institute 's सूची of the महानतम male अमरीकी स्क्रीन legends of all समय, बनाना him the highest-ranked living person on the सूची.
in 1996, he received the Academy मानद Award `` for 50 years as a creative and moral force in the गति चित्र जातियाँ. ''
He is एक of the पिछला surviving अभिनेताओं from Hollywood 's `` सुनहरी आयु ''.
रॉबर्ट Clark `` Bob '' Seger ( born may 6, 1945 ) is an American rock और roll singer-songwriter, guitarist and pianist.
As a locally successful Detroit-area artist, he performed और अंकित as Bob Seger and the पिछला Heard और bob seger प्रणाली throughout the 1960s.
by the जल्दी 1970s, he had dropped the `` System '' इससे his recordings और continued to strive for broader कामयाबी साथ other various bands.
In 1973, he put together The चांदी गोली Band, a समूह of detroit-area musicians, साथ जिसको he became most कामयाब on the नेशनल स्तर साथ the album सजीव गोली, अंकित सजीव साथ the चांदी गोली बैंड in 1975 at cobo Hall in डेट्रॉयट, मिशिगन.
In 1976, he achieved a नेशनल breakout साथ the studio album Night Moves.
on उसके स्टुडियो albums, he also worked extensively साथ the Alabama-based Muscle shoals Rhythm Section, which appeared on अनेक of seger 's best-selling singles और albums.
a जड़ें rocker साथ a classic raspy, चिल्लाना voice, Seger wrote and recorded गीतों कि dealt साथ प्रेम, महिलाओं, blue-collar themes और थी an exemplar of heartland चट्टान.
seger has recorded many हिट्स, including `` रात्रि चालें, '' `` Turn the पेज, '' `` we 've Got Tonight, '' `` विरूद्ध the हवा, '' और shakedown कि थी written for बेवर्ली पहाड़ियाँ cop II and `` जैसे a Rock, '' और also co-wrote the Eagles ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight. ''
His iconic रिकॉर्डिंग of `` बूढ़ा Time Rock और Roll `` थी named one of the गीतों of the Century in 2001.
साथ a करियर spanning पाँच दशकों, seger continues to perform और रिकार्ड today.
Seger थी inducted into the Rock and Roll हॉल of Fame in 2004 और the songwriters Hall of कीर्ति in 2012.
Richard Milhous Nixon ( जनवरी 9, 1913 – April 22, 1994 ) थी the 37th अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य, serving इससे 1969 to 1974, जब he became the only अध्यक्ष to इस्तीफा the दफ्तर.
Nixon था previously परोसा as a रिपब्लिकन U.S. representative and सीनेटर from कैलिफ़ोर्निया and as the 36th Vice अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States from 1953 to 1961.
निक्सन was born in Yorba Linda, California.
he graduated इससे Whittier College in 1934 and Duke विश्वविद्यालयों School of विधि in 1937, returning to कैलिफ़ोर्निया to अभ्यास law.
he और उसके बीवी, पैट निक्सन, स्थानांतरित to Washington to work लिये the संघीय सरकारी in 1942.
He subsequently served in the संयुक्त राज्य नेवी during संसार War II.
निक्सन was निर्वाचित in कैलिफ़ोर्निया to the House of प्रतिनिधि in 1946 and to the सीनेट in 1950.
उसके pursuit of the alger hiss मामला established his प्रतिष्ठा as a अग्रणी anti-communist, और elevated उसे to नेशनल prominence.
He थी the running mate of Dwight D. Eisenhower, the रिपब्लिकन Party presidential nominee in the 1952 चुनाव.
Nixon served लिये आठ सालो as vice अध्यक्ष.
he waged an unsuccessful presidential campaign in 1960, narrowly खोने to John F. कैनेडी, और lost a race लिये Governor of California in 1962.
In 1968, he ran again लिये the presidency and was निर्वाचित.
हालांकि Nixon initially escalated America 's involvement in the Vietnam युद्ध, he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973.
Nixon 's visit to the People 's गणतंत्र of चीन in 1972 opened diplomatic relations between the दो nations, और he initiated détente and the Anti-Ballistic मिसाइल Treaty with the सोवियत Union the same साल.
domestically, उसके administration generally embraced नीतियों कि transferred power from Washington to the राज्य.
Among अन्य बाते, he launched पहलों to fight कर्कट और illegal दवाएँ, imposed मजदूरी and दाम नियंत्रण, enforced desegregation of some दक्षिणी schools, और स्थापित the पर्यावरणीय सुरक्षा एजेंसी.
Though he presided over the lunar अवतरण शुरूआत with अपोलो 11, he scaled वापस manned स्पेस खोजी.
He थी re-elected by a landslide in 1972.
Nixon 's दूसरी पद saw an अरब आयल embargo, the इस्तीफा of his वाइस president, Spiro Agnew, और a continuing श्रेणी of खुलासे परिचय the Watergate scandal और अन्य misconduct by members of the प्रशासन.
The scandal escalated, costing निक्सन much of his political support, and on August 9, 1974, he resigned in the face of almost certain महाभियोग और removal इससे office.
After उसके resignation, he controversially प्राप्त a pardon जारी by his successor, Gerald Ford.
in retirement, Nixon 's कार्य as an elder statesman, authoring अनेक किताबे and undertaking many विदेशी यात्राएँ, helped to rehabilitate his public image.
he suffered a debilitating स्ट्रोक on April 18, 1994, और died चार days later at the age of 81.
{ { Infobox सीनेटर
The Dominican Republic annexation treaty caused कड़वा contention between अध्यक्ष Grant and sen. sumner.
Brady 1869 ] ]
sen. Sumner, opposed to अमरीकी imperialism in the caribbean and fearful that annexation होता lead to the conquest of the neighboring ब्लैक republic of हैती, became convinced that भ्रष्टाचार lay behind the सन्धि, और कि मेन बंद to the president shared in the भ्रष्टाचार.
as chairman of the Senate विदेशी संबंध कमेटी, Sen. Sumner initially withheld his राय on the treaty on जनवरी 18, 1870.
Sen. sumner था been लीक सूचना इससे सहायक सचिव of State, Bancroft Davis, that u.s. Naval जहाजों were होने प्रयुक्त to protect President báez.
sen. sumner 's committee voted against annexation and at sen. Sumner’s suggestion and काफी संभवतः to save the पार्टी from an ugly लड़ो or the अध्यक्ष इससे embarrassment, the Senate held its debate of the treaty behind बंद द्वार in executive सत्र.
President Grant persisted और भेजा messages to कॉंग्रेस in favor of annexation on March 14, 1870, and may 31, 1870.
In बंद सत्र, Sen. sumner spoke आउट against the treaty ; warnng कि वहीँ होता be परेशानी साथ the विदेशी नागरिकों, noting the दीर्घकालिक rebellion कि took place on the island, और the risk कि the independence of हैती, recognized by the संयुक्त States in 1862, होता be खोया.
sumner stated that Grant 's उपयोग of the U.S. Navy as a प्रोटेक्टोरेट was a उल्लंघन of अंतरराष्ट्रीय law और असंवैधानिक.
आखिरकार, on June 30, 1870 the सन्धि was voted on by the Senate and विफल to gain the जरूरी 2/3 बहुमत for सन्धि ड्योढ़ी.
The following दिन, अध्यक्ष ग्रान्ट, अहसास गद्दारी by Sen. sumner, retaliated by ordering the dismissal of Sumner’s close friend J. Lothrop Motley, Ambassador to Britain.
by पतझड़, Sumner 's personal hostility to the president थी पब्लिक knowledge, और he blamed the सचिव of State लिये failing to have resigned, rather than let Grant have his रास्ता.
The two मेन, friends until then, cooled into bitter enemies.
in दिसम्बर, 1870, still fearful that Grant meant to acquire Santo डोमिंगो somehow, Sumner gave a fiercely critical वाक accusing the अध्यक्ष of usurpation और Babcock of unethical conduct.
already, President ग्रान्ट, समर्थित by his सचिव of State Hamilton मछली, had initiated a campaign to depose Sumner इससे the chairmanship of the सीनेट विदेशी Relations Committee.
Although Sumner stated he थी an `` प्रशासन man '', in जोड to having stopped Grant 's Dominican Republic treaty attempt, Sumner था defeated Grant 's full repeal of the Tenure of दफ्तर Act, blocked ग्रान्ट 's nomination of Alexander Stewart to u.S. सचिव of Treasury, और been a निरंतर harassing force pushing Reconstruction नीतियों faster than Grant था महरूम willing to go.
Grant resented Sumner 's superiority of manner, as well.
बताई एकबार कि Sumner किया नहीं believe in the बाइबल, the president is supposed to have कहा कि he थी नहीं चकित : `` he did n't लिखें it. ''
As the दरार between ग्रान्ट और sumner increased, Sumner’s health began to मनाही.
जब the 42nd U.S. Congress convened on कूच 4, 1871, सीनेटरों affiliated साथ President ग्रान्ट, known as ‘’New Radicals’’ voted to oust sen. Sumner इससे the Senate विदेशी संबंध कमेटी अध्यक्षता.
कारोबार आचार ( भी corporate आचार ) is a form of लागू आचार or पेशेवर ethics that examines नैतिक principles and moral or नैतिक problems that arise in a business environment.
It applies to सब aspects of business conduct and is प्रासंगिक to the conduct of individuals और entire organizations.
कारोबार आचार has both normative और वर्णनात्मक dimensions.
As a कॉरपोरेट practice and a career specialization, the field is primarily normative.
Academics attempting to understand कारोबार behavior employ descriptive विधि.
The range और quantity of कारोबार ethical मुद्दे reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing behavior with non-economic concerns.
ब्याज in कारोबार आचार त्वरित dramatically during the 1980s and 1990s, both within major corporations और within academia.
लिये उदाहरण, today most प्रमुख corporations प्रचार their commitment to non-economic मान under headings such as आचार कोड and सोशल responsibility charters.
Adam स्मिथ कहा, `` लोगों of the same trade seldom meet साथ, भी लिये merriment and diversion, but the conversation ends in a conspiracy विरूद्ध the public, or in कुछ contrivance to उठाएँ कीमतें. ''
सरकारें use laws और regulations to पाइंट कारोबार बर्ताव in what they perceive to be beneficial दिशानिर्देश.
Ethics implicitly regulates areas और विवरण of बर्ताव that झूठ beyond सरकारी control.
The emergence of large corporations साथ सीमित relationships and sensitivity to the समुदायों in जिससे they operate त्वरित the development of formal आचार regimes.
A burn is a प्रकार of injury to flesh or स्किन caused by heat, electricity, chemicals, घर्षण, or विकिरण.
सबसे burns affect तभी the सतही skin ( known as superficial or पहला degree ) or extend into the deeper skin but do not involve the full thickness of the skin ( known as आंशिक मोटाई or दूसरी उपाधि ).
rarely all layers of the skin or deeper ऊतकों, ऐसे as मांसपेशी or अस्थि can be injured in which मामला the बर्न is either full मोटाई ( तीसरा उपाधि ) or चौथी degree.
the treatment required depends on the severity of the burn.
सतही burns संभवतः managed with little अधिक than सरल पीड़ा हत्यारे जबकि major burns may आवश्यकता prolonged treatment in specialized बर्न centers.
Cooling साथ tap जल may सहायता pain and घटी damage however if एक्सपोज़र is prolonged it may परिणाम in low देह temperature.
Partial thickness burns may require cleaning with साबुन और जल followed by dressings.
फफोले चाहिए typically be left अखंड.
पूरा thickness burns प्रायः require सर्जिकल उपचार such as skin कलम and extensive burns प्रायः आवश्यकता large amount of intravenous fluids.
the most आम जटिलताओं of burns are सम्बन्धित to infection.
जबकि विशाल burns can be fatal, आधुनिक treatments developed in the last 50 years have significantly improved the outcomes, especially in children and young adults.
Globally about 11 million लोगों seek medical treatment और 300,000 people die इससे burns.
in the संयुक्त States, of those admitted to a burn बीच, लगभग 4 % die इससे उनके चोटों.
the long पद निष्कर्ष is primarily सम्बन्धित to the आकार of बर्न and the आयु of the person effected.
The Atlantic Ocean, नहीं सहित आर्कटिक और Antarctic regions
इस वीडियो was लिया by the crew of expedition 29 on फलक the ISS.
The pass starts इससे just north-east of the Island of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड over the उत्तर अटलांटिक Ocean to सेंट्रल अफ़्रीकी, over South Sudan.
the अटलांटिक समंदर is the second-largest of the world 's oceanic divisions.
साथ a total क्षेत्रफल of about, it covers approximately 20 प्रतिशत of the Earth 's surface और परिचय 29 प्रतिशत of इसके जल surface area.
the first भाग of इसके नाम refers to एटलस of Greek mythology, making the अटलांटिक the `` समुद्र of Atlas ''.
the oldest known जिक्र of `` Atlantic '' is in the Histories of Herodotus around 450 bc ( Hdt. 1.202.4 ) : Atlantis thalassa ( Greek : ἀτλαντὶς θάλασσα ; अंग्रेज़ी : Sea of एटलस ).
the पद ethiopic Ocean, derived इससे Ethiopia, थी applied to the दक्षिणी Atlantic as लेट as the mid-19th सदी.
पहले Europeans खोजा अन्य महासागर, the पद `` समंदर '' itself was synonymous साथ the waters परे the जलसन्धि of जिब्राल्टर कि we अभी know as the Atlantic.
The early Greeks believed इस ocean to be a gigantic नदी encircling the संसार.
the Atlantic Ocean occupies an elongated, s-shaped basin extending longitudinally between यूरेशिया and अफ़्रीकी to the ईस्ट, and the americas to the west.
As one घटक of the interconnected वैश्विक समंदर, it is connected in the north to the Arctic Ocean ( जिससे is sometimes माना a sea of the Atlantic ), to the Pacific समंदर in the दक्षिणपश्चिम, the भारतीय समंदर in the southeast, and the दक्षिणी समंदर in the दक्षिण.
( Other परिभाषाएं describe the Atlantic as extending southward to अंटार्कटिक. )
the equator subdivides it into the उत्तर अटलांटिक समंदर और South अटलांटिक समंदर.
due to their long-term हठ, और the need for a unique identifier in issuing forecasts and चेतावनियाँ, तीव्र cyclones और उपोष्ण cyclones हैं दिए names according to policy ( देखिए Tropical चक्रवात naming ).
the following are lists from which these तीव्र and उपोष्ण cyclone names हैं निकला.
White लाइट is dispersed by a प्रिज़्म into the रंगों of the ऑप्टिकल वर्णक्रम.
the दृश्य spectrum is the portion of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम कि is दृश्य to ( can be detected by ) the इंसान eye.
Electromagnetic विकिरण in इस दायरा of wavelengths is called दृश्य light or बस light.
A ठेठ human eye होगा respond to wavelengths इससे about 390 to 700 nm.
In terms of आवृत्ति, इस corresponds to a बैंड in the vicinity of 430–790 thz.
A light-adapted नजर generally रै its maximum sensitivity at around 555 nm ( 540 thz ), in the green प्रदेश of the ऑप्टिकल spectrum ( see : luminosity फलन ).
the spectrum करता not, however, contain all the colors कि the इंसान आँखें और दिमाग can distinguish.
असंतृप्त रंगों ऐसे as pink, or जामुनी विसंगतियाँ such as magenta, are absent, for उदाहरण, क्युकी they can be made only by a मिक्सर of multiple wavelengths.
रंगों containing तभी एक wavelength हैं भी called pure colors.
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` optical window ``, the प्रदेश of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक spectrum जिससे allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the धरती 's माहौल.
an उदाहरण of इस phenomenon is that clean एयर scatters ब्लू light अधिक than red wavelengths, and so the midday sky appears blue.
The optical window is भी पुकारा the दृश्य खिड़की because it overlaps the human दृश्य response वर्णक्रम.
The near infrared ( nir ) window lies just आउट of the इंसान vision, as well as the Medium Wavelength ir ( mwir ) खिड़की और the Long Wavelength or Far Infrared ( lwir or fir ) खिड़की हालांकि अन्य पशु may अनुभव them.
अनेक species can देखिए light with frequencies outside the `` visible वर्णक्रम, '' which is defined in terms of human दृष्टि.
Bees and many other insects can detect पराबैंगनी light, which helps them ढूँढें मकरंद in flowers.
Plant species कि depend on insect परागण may owe reproductive कामयाबी to their appearance in ultraviolet लाइट, rather than how colorful वे appear to इंसानो.
पक्षियों, too, can see into the पराबैंगनी ( 300–400 nm ), and कुछ have sex-dependent markings on their plumage कि are visible only in the पराबैंगनी range.
अनेक animals कि can देखिए into the ultraviolet range, however, can नहीं देखिए रेड light or कोई अन्य reddish wavelengths.
मधुमक्खियों ' दृश्य वर्णक्रम ends at परिचय 590nm, बस पहले the नारंगी wavelengths start.
Birds, however, can see कुछ रेड wavelengths, but नहीं as अनेक as humans.
Zebras ( or ) हैं several प्रजाति of African equids ( horse family ) united by उनके distinctive black और श्वेत stripes.
उनके धारियाँ आइये in different patterns, unique to each individual.
वे हैं generally सोशल animals कि सजीव in small harems to large herds.
Unlike their closest relatives, घोड़े और asses, zebras have never been truly domesticated.
वहीँ are three species of zebras : the plains zebra, the grévy 's जेब्रा और the पहाड़ जेब्रा.
The plains zebra और the mountain zebra belong to the subgenus hippotigris, but Grévy 's zebra is the sole species of subgenus dolichohippus.
the latter resembles an गधा, to which it is closely सम्बन्धित, while the पूर्व two are more horse-like.
All three belong to the genus Equus, along with अन्य जीना equids.
the अद्वितीय stripes of zebras मेक उन्हें one of the पशु most familiar to people.
They occur in a variety of habitats, such as grasslands, savannas, वुडलैंड्स, thorny scrublands, kyu, और तटीय hills.
However, विभिन्न anthropogenic कारकों have had a severe प्रभाव on जेब्रा populations, in particular hunting for skins और habitat विनाश.
grévy 's zebra और the पहाड़ zebra are endangered.
While plains zebras are much अधिक plentiful, one subspecies, the quagga, became extinct in the लेट 19th century – हालांकि there is currently a plan, पुकारा the quagga प्रोजेक्ट, that aims to breed zebras that हैं phenotypically समान to the quagga in a प्रक्रम called breeding back.
Barry White, born Barry यूजीन Carter ( – ), थी an American composer and singer-songwriter.
a two-time Grammy पुरस्कार -winner ज्ञात for उसके distinctive bass आवाज़ और romantic चित्र, White 's greatest कामयाबी came in the 1970s as a solo सिंगर and with the Love Unlimited ऑर्केस्ट्रा, crafting many enduring आत्मा, funk, और डिस्को गीतों such as उसके दो biggest हिट्स, `` तुम 're the First, the पिछला, my Everything `` and `` ca n't Get Enough of अपना प्रेम, Babe. ''
साथ with Isaac हेज़, श्वेत is considered by Allmusic.com as a pioneer of disco म्यूज़िक in the early 1970s.
दौरान the कोर्स of his career in the music कारोबार, श्वेत हासिल 106 सुनहरा albums विश्वव्यापी, 41 of जिससे also attained प्लेटिनम status.
श्वेत था 20 gold and 10 प्लेटिनम singles, with विश्वव्यापी sales in excess of 100 लाख, according to critics ed होगन और वेड Kergan.
उसके प्रभाव शामिल रेव. जेम्स क्लीवलैंड, रे Charles, Aretha Franklin प्लस Motown artists the Supremes, the चार टॉप and Marvin gaye.
एंजेलीना Jolie (, born एंजेलीना जोली वोइट ; June 4, 1975 ) is an American अभिनेत्री, film director, और screenwriter.
वो has received an अकादमी Award, two Screen अभिनेताओं गिल्ड Awards, और तीन Golden Globe Awards, and थी named हॉलीवुड 's highest-paid actress by फोर्ब्स in 2009 and 2011.
जोली promotes humanitarian कल्याणकारी, और is noted for her work साथ शरणार्थियों as a Special Envoy and former Goodwill Ambassador लिये the संयुक्त Nations ऊँची Commissioner लिये शरणार्थियों ( UNHCR ).
She has प्रायः been cited as the संसार 's `` सबसे खूबसूरत '' स्त्री, a शीर्षक लिये जिससे she has प्राप्त substantial media attention.
जोली made उसके screen डेब्यू as a चाइल्ड alongside उसके पिता jon वोइट in lookin ' to मिलेंगी Out ( 1982 ), but उसके film career began in earnest a decade बाद with the low-budget उत्पादन Cyborg 2 ( 1993 ).
Her पहला leading role in a प्रमुख फिल्मी थी in the cyber-thriller हैकर्स ( 1995 ).
She starred in the critically acclaimed biographical टेलीविज़न films George Wallace ( 1997 ) और gia ( 1998 ), and जीती an Academy Award लिये Best Supporting अभिनेत्री लिये उसके performance in the नाटक लड़की, Interrupted ( 1999 ).
जोली achieved wide कीर्ति after उसके portrayal of video game heroine Lara क्रॉफ्ट in Lara क्रॉफ्ट : Tomb Raider ( 2001 ), और स्थापित herself among the highest-paid actresses in Hollywood साथ the sequel The पालना of जीवन ( 2003 ).
She continued her कार्रवाई star career साथ mr. & Mrs. स्मिथ ( 2005 ) and चाही ( 2008 ) —her biggest non-animated commercial सफलताओं to date—and received further नाजुक acclaim लिये उसके प्रदर्शन in the dramas a Mighty Heart ( 2007 ) and changeling ( 2008 ), which earned her a nomination for an Academy पुरस्कार for बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री.
जोली बना उसके directorial डेब्यू साथ the wartime drama In the जमीन of Blood and मधु ( 2011 ).
Divorced इससे actors जॉनी ली मिलर और Billy bob थॉर्नटन, जोली now जीवनदान with कर्ता Brad pitt, in a relationship notable लिये fervent media attention.
Jolie और Pitt have three biological children और three adopted children.
a प्राकृतिक मेहराब produced by the अपरदन of differentially weathered चट्टान in jebel Kharaz, Jordan
अपरदन is the प्रक्रम by जिससे मृदा और rock हैं removed from the Earth 's surface by exogenetic processes ऐसे as हवा or जल flow, and तब transported और deposited in अन्य locations.
जबकि erosion is a natural प्रक्रम, इंसान activities have increased by 10-40 टाइम्स the rate at जिससे अपरदन is occurring globally.
Excessive erosion कल्याणकारी समस्याएं such as मरुस्थलीकरण, decreases in agricultural productivity due to land degradation, sedimentation of जलमार्गों, और ecological पतन due to घाटा of the nutrient rich upper soil layers.
जल और wind erosion हैं now the two primary कल्याणकारी of जमीन degradation ; संयुक्त, they are जिम्मेदार लिये 84 % of degraded acreage, बनाना excessive erosion एक of the most significant global पर्यावरणीय समस्याएं.
Industrial कृषि, वनों, roads, anthropogenic climate बदलें and शहरी sprawl हैं amongst the सबसे significant इंसान activities in लिहाज़ to their effect on stimulating erosion.
however, वहीँ हैं अनेक उपलब्धियाँ वैकल्पिक land use practices that can काटना or limit erosion, ऐसे as terrace -building, no-till कृषि, and revegetation of denuded soils.
जर्सी shore is an अमरीकी reality टेलीविज़न series which ran on MTV इससे दिसम्बर 3, 2009 to December 20, 2012 in the United States.
the series follows the जीवनदान of eight housemates spending their summer at the Jersey shore in the u.S. state of New जर्सी.
ऋतु 2 followed the डाल escaping the cold पूर्वोत्तर शीत to Miami बीच, with ऋतु 3 returning to the Jersey shore.
The fourth ऋतु, फिल्माया in Italy, premiered on August 4, 2011.
the दिखाएँ लौटे for a पांचवां ऋतु, at seaside हाइट्स on January 5, 2012.
the पांचवां season finale aired on कूच 15, 2012.
On March 19, 2012, MTV confirmed कि the श्रेणी होता return लिये their sixth ऋतु.
On अगस्त 30, 2012, MTV announced that the श्रेणी will end बाद the sixth ऋतु, जिससे premiered on October 4.
The series finale aired on दिसम्बर 20, 2012.
The दिखाएँ debuted amid विशाल amounts of विवाद regarding the use of the शब्द `` guido / guidette, '' portrayals of italian-american stereotypes, and scrutiny इससे स्थानीय क्युकी the cast members were not residents of the area.
the series garnered रिकार्ड ratings for MTV, बनाना it the संजाल 's most viewed श्रेणी telecast कभी.
The series ' डाल have भी महरूम credited साथ introducing अद्वितीय lexicon and phrases into American popular संस्कृति.
the विश्वविद्यालयों of शिकागो and the University of Oklahoma are among the educational संस्थानों कि have था classes or सम्मेलनों about the दिखाएँ.
in 2010, the cast of जर्सी shore थी नामित on बारबरा Walters ' 10 Most Fascinating People list, and the series रै चूंकि महरूम exported to dozens of countries विश्वव्यापी.
वहीँ are several remakes of the show in अन्य देशों, साथ दो नियत in the United किंगडम ; the well ज्ञात geordie Shore, नियत in न्यूकैसल upon tyne, England.
The other is the घाटियों, the Welsh equivalent, which is फिल्माया और नियत in Cardiff.
The तभी अन्य आधिकारिक रीमेक of the दिखाएँ is Gandía Shore, नियत in gandía, स्पेन.
right
United States territory is कोई extent of प्रदेश under the jurisdiction of the संघीय government of the संयुक्त States, सहित सब waters ( around आइलैंड्स or महाद्वीपीय tracts ) और all U.S. नवल vessels.
The संयुक्त States रै traditionally proclaimed the sovereign rights लिये exploring, exploiting, conserving, और मैनेजिंग its territory.
This extent of territory is all the क्षेत्रफल belonging to, और अंतर्गत the डोमिनियन of, the संयुक्त States federal सरकारी ( which includes tracts lying at a distance इससे the देश ) लिये प्रशासनिक and other उद्देश्य.
the संयुक्त राज्य total territory includes a उपसमुच्चय of राजनैतिक divisions.
The U.S. सरकारी is a government with delegated powers अंतर्गत the United States Constitution.
`` the powers not delegated to the United राज्य by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people '' by the दसवाँ amendment.
Terminator 3 : Rise of the मशीने ( commonly abbreviated as t3 ) is a 2003 विज्ञान fiction कार्रवाई फिल्मी directed by Jonathan mostow और अभिनीत Arnold Schwarzenegger, Nick stahl, Claire Danes और kristanna loken.
It is the दूसरी sequel to the Terminator ( 1984 ).
बाद स्काईनेट fails to मार Sarah Connor before उसके son is born and to kill John खुद as a चाइल्ड, it sends back another टर्मिनेटर, the T-X, in an attempt to wipe out as many Resistance officers as संभावित.
This includes John 's भविष्य wife, but not John खुद as उसके whereabouts हैं अनजान to स्काईनेट.
John 's जीवन is लगाई in danger जब the t-x accidentally finds him.
a cord of wood
the cord is a ईकाई of माप of शुष्क आवाज़ used in कनाडा and the United States to measure firewood and pulpwood.
a cord is the amount of wood that, when `` क्रमित and खूब stowed '' ( arranged so pieces are aligned, समानांतर, touching and कॉम्पैक्ट ), occupies a volume of.
इस corresponds to a well stacked woodpile high, long, and गहन ; or any अन्य arrangement of रैखिक measurements that yields the वही आवाज़.
the name cord संभवतः comes from the use of a cord or स्ट्रिंग to measure it.
The, is an 8-bit हैंडहेल्ड वीडियो game यंत्र विकसित और manufactured by Nintendo.
it थी released in Japan on, in उत्तर America in, and in Europe on.
it is the पहला हैंडहेल्ड कंसोल in the Game Boy लकीर, and was निर्मित by Gunpei Yokoi और निन्टेंडो Research & विकास 1 —the same स्टाफ who था designed the खेल & देखें श्रेणी as well as अनेक popular खेल लिये the निन्टेंडो Entertainment System.
redesigned संस्करण were released in 1996 और 1998, in the रूप of खेल Boy Pocket, और खेल Boy Light ( Japan तभी ), क्रमशः.
the Game Boy is Nintendo 's second handheld प्रणाली following the Game & Watch series introduced in, and it combined सुविधाएँ from both the Nintendo Entertainment प्रणाली and खेल & देखें.
It थी originally bundled साथ the puzzle खेल टेट्रिस.
As part of the चौथी पीढी of gaming, the खेल Boy competed साथ the Sega खेल Gear, Atari लिंक्स, and the TurboExpress.
Despite ये अन्य technologically superior हैंडहेल्ड consoles, the Game Boy was a जबरदस्त success.
the खेल Boy और its successor, the खेल Boy Color, have दोनो संयुक्त बेची 118.69 लाख units worldwide.
upon its रिलीज in the United राज्य, it बेची its संपूर्ण शिपमेंट of one million इकाई within weeks.
the संसार व्यापार Center is a complex of buildings अंतर्गत निर्माण in निम्नतर Manhattan, New York City, United States, replacing an earlier जटिल of सात इमारतें साथ the same name on the same साईट.
the असली World व्यापार Center प्रदर्शित landmark जुड़वा towers, जिससे opened on April 4, 1973 और यहूद नष्ट in the September 11 attacks of 2001, along with 7 संसार Trade Center.
the other buildings in the complex were क्षतिग्रस्त in the हमले, and उनके ruins were आखिरकार demolished.
The साईट is being rebuilt with पाँच new skyscrapers और a मेमोरियल to those killed in the attacks.
, only one skyscraper रै been completed ; the other four हैं expected to be completed पहले 2020.
One World Trade बीच will be the सीसे building for the नई जटिल, reaching अधिक than 100 कहानियां at its completion.
It became the tallest building in New यॉर्क नगर on April 30, 2012, and is अपेक्षित to be finished by 2013.
A sixth मीनार is प्रतीक्षारत पुष्टि.
At the time of उनके पूर्णता, the original 1 World Trade Center ( the उत्तर Tower ) और 2 संसार Trade बीच ( the South Tower ), known collectively as the `` Twin मीनारें '', यहूद the tallest buildings in the world.
The other buildings included 3 wtc ( the मैरियट World Trade बीच ), 4 WTC, 5 WTC, 6 wtc, and 7 WTC.
All of ये buildings यहूद निर्मित between 1975 और 1985.
the लागत for the construction थी $ 400 million ( $ in डॉलर ).
The जटिल थी स्तिथ in the heart of नई York नगर 's शहर वित्तीय district और contained 13.4 million square feet ( 1.24 million m2 ) of दफ्तर space.
The संसार व्यापार बीच अनुभवी a fire on, 1975, a bombing on, 1993 and a robbery on, 1998.
in 1998, the Port प्राधिकार decided to privatize the संसार Trade Center, पट्टे the buildings to a निजी कम्पनी to manage, and awarded the lease to Silverstein Properties in.
on the morning of सितंबर 11, 2001, al-qaeda -संबद्धd hijackers flew two Boeing 767 jets into the complex, one into प्रत्येक tower, in a समन्वित terrorist attack.
बाद burning लिये 56 minutes, the दक्षिण मीनार ( 2 ) collapsed, followed a half-hour later by the North मीनार ( 1 ), with the हमले on the World Trade बीच resulting in 2,753 मौतों.
गिरना debris from the मीनारें, संयुक्त with फ़ायर that the मलबा initiated in several surrounding buildings, led to the partial or पूरा पतन of सब the other इमारतें in the complex और caused अनर्थकारी क्षति to टेन अन्य large structures in the surrounding क्षेत्रफल.
the प्रक्रम of cleanup and recovery at the World व्यापार बीच साईट took eight months.
Over the following सालो, plans for a rebuilt संसार व्यापार Center took form.
the पहला नई building at the साईट थी 7 World व्यापार बीच, जिससे opened in.
The Lower Manhattan विकास निगम ( lmdc ), established in to oversee the rebuilding प्रक्रम, व्यवस्थित competitions to select a साईट plan और मेमोरियल डिज़ाइन.
मेमोरी मूलाधार, designed by डेनियल libeskind, थी selected as the निपुण योजना, लकिन this गई through substantial changes in design.
the नई संसार Trade Center complex will include One World Trade बीच, तीन अन्य high-rise office towers, and the National September 11 मेमोरियल & संग्रहालय.
सैन जिबरील Mountains
San Bernardino Mountains, साथ mt. San gorgonio in the foreground और बिग भालू Lake in the background.
The Transverse Ranges हैं a group of mountain सीमाएँ of southern California, in the Pacific Coast Ranges physiographic प्रदेश in उत्तर America.
The अनुप्रस्थ सीमाएँ begin at the southern end of the California coast सीमाएँ और झूठ between Santa Barbara and सैन Diego counties.
They derive the name Transverse सीमाएँ due to their east-west अभिविन्यास, बनाना them अनुप्रस्थ to the सामान्य north-south orientation of सबसे of California 's coastal kyu.
आवधिक तालिका with electron शेल
An electron shell may be विचार of as an orbit followed by electrons around an अणु 's nucleus.
the closest shell to the nucleus is पुकारा the `` 1 shell '' ( भी called `` K शेल '' ), followed by the `` 2 shell '' ( or `` l shell '' ), then the `` 3 शेल '' ( or `` m शेल '' ), और so on दूर और दूर इससे the केंद्रक.
The shell अक्षर K, L, M,..., used in the x-ray संकेतन, हैं alphabetical.
Each shell can contain only a फिक्स्ड क्रमांक of electrons : the 1st शेल can थाम up to two electrons, the 2nd शेल can थाम up to eight electrons, the 3rd शेल can hold up to 18, और 4th शेल can hold up to 32 और so on.
Since electrons हैं electrically attracted to the केंद्रक, an atom 's electrons होगा generally occupy outer शेल तभी if the more inner शेल have already been completely भर by other electrons.
However, इस is नहीं a strict requirement : Atoms may have दो or भी तीन incomplete outer shells.
( See madelung rule for more विवरण. )
For an explanation of why electrons मौजूद in ये शेल see electron configuration.
the electrons in the outermost occupied shell ( or शेल ) determine the chemical properties of the अणु ; it is called the valence शेल.
प्रत्येक शेल consists of एक or अधिक subshells, and each subshell consists of एक or अधिक atomic orbitals.
Vickie lynn Marshall ( née Hogan ; नवम्बर 28, 1967 – February 8, 2007 ), known by उसके moniker anna निकोल Smith, थी an अमरीकी मॉडल, अभिनेत्री, and television व्यक्तित्व.
स्मिथ first gained लोकप्रियता in Playboy, becoming the 1993 संगिनी of the Year.
वो modeled लिये कपडे companies, including Guess जीन्स and लेन Bryant.
स्मिथ dropped out of high school and was शादीशुदा in 1985.
Her अत्यधिक publicized second विवाह to आयल business mogul, J. हावर्ड मार्शल, 62 years उसके वरिष्ठ, resulted in speculation कि वो married the octogenarian for his धन, which she अस्वीकृत.
Following Marshall 's मौत, Smith began a lengthy legal बैटल over a share of his एस्टेट.
Her मामला, मार्शल v. मार्शल, reached the U.S. Supreme अदालत on a सवाल of संघीय jurisdiction, और again on a सवाल of bankruptcy अदालत authority ( अभी called Stern v. Marshall ).
Smith died on फ़रवरी 8, 2007 in a Hollywood, Florida होटल रूम as a result of an overdose of prescription drugs.
भीतर the फाइनल six months of her life, स्मिथ was the focus of a नवीनीकृत दबायें कवरेज surrounding the मौत of her बेटे, Daniel, और the paternity and custody बैटल over her newborn daughter, Dannielynn.
the is एक denomination of जापानी yen.
the वर्तमान डिज़ाइन थी पहला minted in 1959 using जापानी वर्ण known as the `` नई स्क्रिप्ट ``, and यहूद भी minted from 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' Japanese characters.
Five-yen सिक्के date to 1870 ( जब, due to the much उच्चतर value of the येन, वे were minted in gold ).
the सामने of the सिक्का depicts a राइस plant growing आउट of the water, with `` पाँच येन '' written in kanji ; the वापस is stamped with `` Japan '' और the साल of समस्या, भी in कांजी, separated by sprouts of a tree.
The तीन graphic तत्व of the सिक्का represent कृषि and fisheries, the key elements of the जापानी first-sector अर्थव्यवस्था.
Around a छेद, वहीँ is a गियर that represents उद्योग.
It is the तभी Japanese सिक्का in circulation to lack अरबी numerals on either फेस.
TLC is an अमरीकी लड़की group जिनकी repertoire spanned R & B, हिप hop, soul, दुर्गंध, and नई jack swing.
originally consisting of singer tionne `` T-Boz '' Watkins, rapper लिसा `` Left नजर '' lopes and सिंगर rozonda `` Chilli '' थामस, the group found unprecedented success in the 1990s while also enduring a श्रेणी of spats with the law, each other, और the group 's रिकार्ड label.
Initially, tlc हासिल वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी following the release of their debut album ooooooohhh...
On the tlc टिप, which sold 6 million नक़ल worldwide.
However, it थी उनके second album, crazysexycool, कि catapulted the group to superstar औकात.
crazysexycool गई on to be certified डायमंड by the riaa — a first for a मादा group, और eventually बेची 23 million नक़ल विश्वव्यापी.
पाँच सालो बाद, the group released उनके third एल्बम fanmail, जिससे became the समूह 's first एल्बम to डेब्यू at number one and sold अधिक than 11 लाख copies worldwide.
The subsequent दौरे following fanmails रिलीज became the highest grossing दौरे of सब time by a मादा बैंड.
in 2002, लिसा `` बाएँ Eye '' lopes died in a car दुर्घटना in Honduras.
Seven महीने बाद, T-Boz and chilli released the समूह 's fourth album 3D, which sold 2 लाख copies विश्वव्यापी, it featured unreleased vocals इससे Left Eye.
बिलबोर्ड पत्रिका क्रमित TLC as एक of the greatest musical trios.
between 1992 and 2003, the बैंड accumulated टेन top ten singles, चार number एक singles, four multi-platinum albums, और चार Grammy पुरस्कार.
At the end of 1999, tlc was ranked as the seventh most कामयाब act of the 1990s by बिलबोर्ड.
in 2008, the समूह थी inducted into the सब Time hot 100 Artist हॉल of कीर्ति by the same पत्रिका, at 56th प्लेस.
कि साल it was also सूचीबद्ध as the # 25 r & B/hip-hop artist of the preceding 25 सालो.
TLC रै sold अधिक than 65 million records विश्वव्यापी and वे are ranked as the second बेहतरीन selling female समूह of all time, and the बेहतरीन selling मादा R & b group of all समय.
in 2012, TLC ranked 12th on vh1 's 100 महानतम महिलाओं in म्यूज़िक, होने ranked the number one all लड़की समूह on कि सूची.
Tarzan is a 1999 American animated adventure फिल्मी produced by Walt डिज़्नी Feature Animation और वितरित by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी Pictures.
The 37th फिल्मी in the वॉल्ट डिज़्नी Animated क्लासिक, it is based on the स्टोरी Tarzan of the Apes by एडगर Rice बरोज, and is the only major motion picture संस्करण of the story टार्ज़न प्रॉपर्टी to be animated.
निर्देशित by क्रिस buck और Kevin Lima with a screenplay by Tab Murphy, Bob tzudiker, और Noni श्वेत, टार्ज़न features the voices of Tony Goldwyn, Minnie ड्राइवर, Glenn बंद, and रोजी O'Donnell साथ Brian Blessed, तलवार Henriksen, Wayne नाईट, and Nigel Hawthorne.
it was the पिछला bona fide hit before the Disney slump of the early 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically और $ 448,191,819 worldwide, outgrossing its पूर्ववर्तियों hercules ( 1997 ) and mulan ( 1998 ).
at the time of इसके release, its उत्पादन बजट of $ 130 million made it the सबसे expensive एनिमेटेड फिल्मी कभी बना, जबतक topped by Disney 's own $ 140 million खजाना Planet in 2002.
It थी भी the पहला डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड विशेषता to open at # 1 चूंकि pocahontas.
This was the पिछला major box दफ्तर कामयाबी of the डिज़्नी पुनर्जागरण.
आयल Platform p-51 बंद the ब्राज़ीलियाई coast is a semi-submersible मंच.
आयल platform Mittelplate in the North sea
an oil platform, ( offshore मंच or colloquially आयल रिग ) is a विशाल structure with सुविधाएं to ड्रिल कुएं, to निकालें और process oil और natural gas, और to temporarily स्टोर product जबतक it can be brought to shore for शोधन और marketing.
in many cases, the मंच contains facilities to house the workforce as well.
depending on the हालातों, the platform may be fixed to the समंदर floor, may consist of an artificial island, or may फ्लैश.
रिमोट subsea wells may भी be कनेक्ट to a मंच by flow लाइनों और by umbilical connections.
ये subsea समाधान may consist of एक or अधिक subsea wells, or of एक or अधिक manifold केंद्रों लिये multiple कुएं.
वध is the हत्या of animals, usually that of घरेलू livestock लिये food.
the animals most commonly slaughtered for food हैं cattle, water buffalo ( for बीफ और veal ), शीप, बकरियों ( लिये मेमने और mutton ), सूअर ( for pork ), घोड़े ( for घोड़ा मांस ), and fowl, largely chickens, turkeys, और ducks और increasingly fish from the aquaculture industry ( मछली खेती ).
the श्वेत House, the president 's आधिकारिक निवास और center of the administration
अंतर्गत the संयुक्त States Constitution, the अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य is the head of राज्य and सिर of सरकारी of the United States.
As chief of the कार्यपालिका branch and head of the federal सरकारी as a पूरे, the प्रेसिडेंसी is the उच्चतम राजनैतिक दफ्तर in the संयुक्त States by influence and recognition.
The president is भी the commander-in-chief of the संयुक्त राज्य Armed शक्तियां.
The अध्यक्ष is indirectly निर्वाचित to a four-year term by an चुनावी College ( or by the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि चाहिए the चुनावी कॉलेज fail to पुरस्कार an निरपेक्ष बहुमत of votes to कोई person ).
Since the अनुसमर्थन of the Twenty-second amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान in 1951, no व्यक्ति may be निर्वाचित President अधिक than twice, and no one who has served अधिक than two years of a पद to जिससे someone else थी निर्वाचित may be elected अधिक than एकबार.
Upon the मौत, resignation, or removal इससे office of an लाज़िम अध्यक्ष, the वाइस President assumes the दफ्तर.
The President जरूर be at least 35 सालो of age और a `` प्राकृतिक born '' citizen of the United राज्य.
This सूची शामिल तभी those persons जो यहूद sworn into दफ्तर as president following the ratification of the United राज्य संविधान, जिससे took effect on March 4, 1789.
For अमरीकी नेताओ पहले this ratification, see President of the महाद्वीपीय Congress.
the सूची करता not शामिल कोई एक्टिंग राष्ट्रपतियों under the Twenty-fifth amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान.
वहीँ have been 43 people sworn into office, और 44 presidencies, as ग्रोवर Cleveland परोसा दो non-consecutive terms and is counted chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th अध्यक्ष.
Of the individuals निर्वाचित as अध्यक्ष, चार died in office of प्राकृतिक causes ( William Henry हैरिसन, Zachary टेलर, Warren G. हार्डिंग, and फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट ), चार यहूद assassinated ( अब्राहम Lincoln, जेम्स A. Garfield, विलियम mckinley, and John F. Kennedy ) and एक resigned ( रिचर्ड निक्सन ).
जार्ज वॉशिंगटन, the पहला अध्यक्ष, थी inaugurated in 1789 after a सर्वसम्मत vote of the Electoral कॉलेज.
William Henry Harrison खर्च the shortest समय in दफ्तर साथ 32 दिनों in 1841, and Franklin D. रूज़वेल्ट spent the longest with over twelve सालो, लकिन died shortly into उसके fourth term in 1945.
he is the तभी president to serve अधिक than two terms, and a संवैधानिक amendment, affecting राष्ट्रपतियों after हैरी ट्रूमैन, थी passed to limit the क्रमांक of times an individual can be निर्वाचित president.
एंड्रयू Jackson, the seventh president, थी the first to be निर्वाचित by मेन of सब classes in 1828 बाद most कानून barring non-land-owners इससे voting were repealed.
वारेन हार्डिंग was the पहला निर्वाचित after महिलाओं gained मतदान rights in 1920.
इतिहास records four presidents – जॉन Q Adams, रदरफोर्ड B. हेज़, बेंजामिन हैरिसन और जार्ज W. बुश – जो खोया the लोकप्रिय vote but assumed office.
जॉन F. Kennedy रै महरूम the only अध्यक्ष of Roman कैथोलिक आस्था, और the current president, Barack ओबामा, is the पहला president of African descent.
अनेक firearms with detachable suppressors, इससे top to नीचे : an Uzi, An AR-15, a heckler & koch खासियत रणनीतिक, A beretta 92fs, and a SIG Mosquito.
bolt कार्रवाई rimfire rifle with suppressor
awm-f स्निपर rifle with संलग्न suppressor.
a suppressor, sound suppressor, or ध्वनि मॉडरेटर, is a device attached to or part of the barrel of a firearm which reduces the amount of रव, और प्रायः the राशि of muzzle flash, generated by firing the हथियार.
A suppressor can be used both साथ a firearm और साथ संपीडित air gun.
हालांकि it is sometimes referred to as a silencer, this पद is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the ध्वनि of a प्रक्षेप्य, especially एक चलती तेज़ than the speed of sound, through the air can नहीं be eliminated.
using a suppressor in long distance shooting ( i.e. वृहद than 300 meters ) can lessen, or retard, the रपट at the पल of impact, and create the impression of खामोशी निकट the निशाना.
The noise सुना निकट the muzzle as a projectile पत्ते the बैरल, though subdued, is not silent at all.
A suppressor is usually a metal बेलन साथ internal mechanisms to reduce the sound of फायरिंग by slowing the escaping propellant gas और sometimes by reducing the velocity of the bullet.
जल्दी suppressors were created around the शुरूआत of the 20th century by अनेक inventors.
American आविष्कारक Hiram पर्सी कहावत ( not to be confused साथ Hiram स्टीवंस कहावत, hiram पर्सी 's father, and the inventor of the कहावत Machine Gun ), is credited साथ inventing and selling the पहला commercially successful models circa 1902 ( patented 30 March 1909 ).
कहावत दिया उसके यंत्र the trademarked name Maxim Silencer.
the मफलर लिये internal combustion engines was developed in parallel with the firearm suppressor by कहावत in the जल्दी 20th century, using many of the same techniques to provide quieter-running इंजन ( in many European देशों ऑटोमोबाइल mufflers are स्टिल पुकारा silencers ).
the शब्द silencer in reference to gun suppressor remains in फैली use, although it रै चूंकि गिरे out of favor साथ कुछ, विशेषकर among the firearms उद्योग, being replaced साथ the अधिक literally accurate term sound suppressor or बस suppressor, because a `` sound suppressor '' does नहीं `` खामोशी '' कोई weapon, rather it eliminates muzzle फ्लैश और reduces the सोनिक pressure of a firearm discharging.
Common उपयोग और U.S. विधान language एहसान the historically earlier पद, silencer.
in U.S. विधि, the terms `` firearm muffler '' और `` firearm silencer '' हैं synonymous.
suppressors were regularly used by एजेंटों of the संयुक्त राज्य Office of रणनीतिक सेवाएं, who favored the newly designed ऊँची मानक HDM.22 long राइफल pistol during संसार युद्ध II.
OSS Director William जोसेफ `` Wild Bill '' डोनोवन demonstrated the pistol लिये अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन D. Roosevelt at the श्वेत हाउस.
according to OSS research मुख्य Stanley Lovell, Donovan ( an बूढ़ा और trusted friend of the President ) थी waved into the ओवल Office, where रूज़वेल्ट थी dictating a letter.
While Roosevelt finished उसके संदेश, Donovan turned his वापस and fired टेन गोलियाँ into a sandbag he had brought with उसे, announced what he had किया और handed the smoking गन to the astonished president.
the British soe ( Special परिचालन कार्यपालिका ) welrod assassination पिस्टल साथ an अभिन्न suppressor was also used by the American oss on clandestine operations in नाजी occupied यूरोपीय दौरान the दूसरी World युद्ध.
beatrice `` bea '' आर्थर ( May 13, 1922 – अप्रैल 25, 2009 ) थी an अमरीकी actress, comedienne, और singer whose करियर spanned seven दशकों.
Arthur achieved fame as the character maude Findlay on the 1970s sitcoms सब in the परिवार and Maude, and as Dorothy Zbornak on the 1980s sitcom The सुनहरी लड़कियों, जीतना एमी पुरस्कार for दोनो भूमिकाएँ.
a stage actress दोनो पहले and बाद her television success, she won the टोनी Award लिये बेहतरीन प्रदर्शित अभिनेत्री in a Musical for her प्रदर्शन as वीरा Charles in the original cast of Mame ( 1966 ).
is a 2011 जापानी 3d computer-animated फिल्मी आधारित on the Tekken video game series, उत्पादित by Digital frontier और वितरित by asmik Ace entertainment in association with Bandai Entertainment.
the film premiered in North America by Bandai Entertainment on जुलाई 26, 2011, और in Australia on July 27, 2011 in a खास विशेष one-off स्क्रीनिंग.
it थी released on सितंबर 3, 2011 in जापानी.
The फिल्मी थी released on blu-ray डिस्क on नवम्बर 22, 2011 for यूएसए, and December 1, 2011 लिये Japan.
इस फिल्मी थी also released on dvd on नवम्बर 22, 2011 ( 2D संस्करण तभी ).
The film was additionally included साथ the PlayStation 3 game, Tekken Hybrid, and the Nintendo 3ds शीर्षक, Tekken 3d : प्रधान Edition.
For a discussion of nonprofit, voluntary पड़ोस advocacy समूह, see neighborhood association.
in the United राज्य, a homeowner association is a निगम formed by a real estate डेवलपर for the purpose of marketing, managing, और selling of homes और lots in a residential subdivision.
It अनुदान the डेवलपर privileged voting अधिकारों in governing the संघ, जबकि allowing the डेवलपर to निकास वित्तीय and legal जिम्मेदारी of the organization, typically by transferring ownership of the association to the homeowners बाद selling बंद a predetermined number of लोट.
सदस्यता in the homeowners संघ by a आवासीय buyer is typically a condition of खरीदें ; a खरीदार is n't दिए an विकल्प to reject it.
सबसे homeowner associations हैं incorporated, और are subject to state statutes that govern non-profit corporations and homeowner associations.
राज्य oversight of homeowner associations is minimal, and मुख्यतः takes the form of कानून which are असंगत इससे state to राज्य.
कुछ राज्य, ऐसे as Florida and कैलिफ़ोर्निया, have a विशाल body of homeowner संघ law, और कुछ states, such as मैसाचुसेट्स, have वस्तुतः no homeowner association law.
The fastest growing form of आवास in the संयुक्त राज्य आज is common-interest developments ( cids ), a श्रेणी कि includes planned-unit developments of single-family homes, condominiums, and cooperative apartments.
चूंकि 1964, homeowner associations have become increasingly आम in the USA.
The जातियाँ एसोसिएशन संस्थान trade संघ estimated कि HOAs governed 24.8 लाख American घरों और 62 लाख residents in 2010.
A prize-winning lilac-and-white silkie
वहीँ हैं अनेक breeds of Guinea सुअर जिससे have been विकसित since इसके domestication ca. 5000 bc.
breeds vary widely in रूप और purpose, ranging from show breeds साथ long, flowing hair to those in उपयोग as मॉडल organisms by science.
From ca. 1200 ad to the Spanish conquest of the इन्का Empire in 1532, selective breeding by indigenous South American peoples resulted in अनेक किस्में of घरेलू गिनी pigs, जिससे रूप the basis for कुछ of the modern घरेलू breeds.
जल्दी andean breeds were primarily kept as agricultural भण्डार for food, and प्रयत्न at improving the Guinea सुअर as a food source continue to the modern era.
साथ the export of Guinea सूअर to Europe in the 15th century, the लक्ष्य in प्रजनन shifted to फ़ोकस on the विकास of appealing pets.
To इस end, विभिन्न प्रतिस्पर्धी breeding संगठन यहूद founded by fanciers.
The अमरीकी Cavy Breeders Association, an adjunct to the अमरीकी Rabbit प्रजनक Association, is the governing body in the United States और कनाडा.
The अंग्रेजों cavy Council governs cavy क्लब in the United किंगडम.
समान संगठन exist in ऑस्ट्रेलिया ( ऑस्ट्रेलियाई नेशनल Cavy परिषद ) और New जीलैंड ( New Zealand Cavy क्लबों ).
प्रत्येक club publishes its अपना Standard of Perfection और determines which breeds are योग्य लिये प्रर्दशित.
New breeds continue to emerge in the 21st century.
हालांकि वहीँ are many breeds of Guinea सुअर, only a few breeds are commonly मिला on the show तालिका as पालतु.
सबसे Guinea सूअर found as pets were either found undesirable by प्रजनक or यहूद bred to be pleasant pets regardless of how well वे meet the नस्ल standard of पूर्णता.
the छोटी hair, Abyssinian, peruvian and Sheltie ( उर्फ Silkie ) breeds are those most frequently seen as pets, and the पूर्व three are the कोर breeds in the history of the प्रतिस्पर्धी showing of गिनी pigs.
In addition to their मानक रूप, nearly सब breeds आइये in a साटन variant.
satins, due to their hollow बाल shafts, possess coats of a special gloss और चमक.
however, there is growing प्रमाण कि the जीनों जिम्मेदार लिये the साटन कोट भी can cause severe अस्थि समस्याएं, including Osteodystrophy और Paget 's disease.
Showing साटन विसंगतियाँ is निषिद्ध by some cavy प्रजनक ' associations क्युकी of एनिमल welfare reasons.
All cavy breeds have कुछ shared सामान्य standards : the head प्रोफ़ाइल should be rounded, साथ विशाल आँखें और विशाल, smooth ears.
the देह should be strong and of कॉम्पैक्ट build.
कोट colour चाहिए in all विसंगतियाँ be clearly पारिभाषित और thorough from root to tip.
ये मानकों हैं best met by long स्थापित, commonly bred breeds, as उनके प्रजनक have था enough समय and पशु to effectively नस्ल for these qualities.
The coat colour ideal of good definition और thoroughness is rarely met by अन्य than the चिकना coated breeds, which have had खूब स्थापित, पृथक प्रजनन lines for different colours.
राज्य स्कूलों ( also known as पब्लिक schools or government schools ) generally refer to प्राथमिक or secondary स्कूलों mandated for or offered to सब children without charge paid for, in पूरे or in part, by कराधान.
The term may भी refer to institutions of post-secondary शिक्षा वित्तपोषित, in whole or in part, and overseen by government.
the ribosome assembles polymeric protein molecules जिनकी sequence is नियंत्रित by the अनुक्रम of messenger rna molecules.
This is required by all living cells और संबद्ध viruses.
The राइबोसोम ( इससे ribonucleic acid और the Greek सोम, meaning `` body '' ) is a large and complex molecular machine, मिला within सब जीना कोशिकाएं, that serves as the प्राथमिक site of biological प्रोटीन synthesis ( translation ).
ribosomes link अमीनो acids together in the order निर्दिष्ट by मेसेंजर RNA ( mRNA ) molecules.
ribosomes consist of two प्रमुख subunits—the small ribosomal subunit reads the mrna, while the large subunit joins अमीनो acids to रूप a polypeptide कड़ी.
प्रत्येक subunit is composed of एक or more ribosomal rna ( rRNA ) अणुओं और a variety of प्रोटीन.
The अनुक्रम of DNA एन्कोडिंग लिये a प्रोटीन may be copied many times into मेसेंजर rna ( mRNA ) chains of a समान अनुक्रम.
ribosomes can bind to an mrna chain and उपयोग it as a template लिये determining the correct sequence of amino acids in a particular protein.
अमीनो acids are selected, एकत्रित और carried to the ribosome by ट्रांसफ़र RNA ( tRNA molecules ), which डालें एक part of the ribosome और bind to the मेसेंजर RNA कड़ी.
the attached अमीनो acids हैं तब linked साथ by another part of the ribosome.
एकबार the प्रोटीन is उत्पादित, it can then 'fold ' to produce a विशिष्ट कार्यात्मक three-dimensional structure.
A राइबोसोम is made इससे complexes of RNAs and प्रोटीन and is इसलिए a ribonucleoprotein.
प्रत्येक राइबोसोम is divided into two subunits : the smaller subunit binds to the mrna pattern, जबकि the larger subunit बांधता to the tRNA and the amino acids.
जब a ribosome finishes पढना an mrna अणु, ये दो subunits split अलावा.
ribosomes are ribozymes, क्युकी the catalytic peptidyl transferase कार्यकलाप कि कड़ी amino acids साथ is performed by the ribosomal RNA.
ribosomes इससे bacteria, archaea और eukaryotes ( the तीन domains of life on Earth ) differ in उनके आकार, sequence, structure, और the ratio of protein to rna.
The मतभेद in structure allow कुछ antibiotics to kill जीवाणु by inhibiting उनके ribosomes, जबकि leaving human ribosomes unaffected.
In जीवाणु और आर्किया, अधिक than एक राइबोसोम may मूव साथ a सिंगल mrna कड़ी at एक समय, each `` पढना '' इसके sequence और producing a सम्बन्धित प्रोटीन अणु.
the ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells functionally resemble many सुविधाएँ of those in जीवाणु, reflecting the likely विकासवादी उत्पत्ति of mitochondria.
Albert क्लॉड, Christian de Duve, and जार्ज Emil Palade were jointly awarded the नोबेल Prize in Physiology or आयुर्विज्ञान, in 1974, for the discovery of the ribosomes.
the नोबेल पुरस्कार in Chemistry 2009 थी awarded to venkatraman रामकृष्णन, थामस A. steitz and एडीए E. yonath लिये determining the विस्तृत structure और यांत्रिकी of the राइबोसोम.
The सरलीकृत internal structure of a chloroplast
Overview of the Calvin साईकिल और कार्बन fixation
the light-independent प्रतिक्रियाएँ of photosynthesis are chemical प्रतिक्रियाएँ कि convert कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड और other यौगिकों into ग्लूकोज.
ये reactions occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled area of a हरितलवक outside of the thylakoid membranes.
These reactions लो the light-dependent reactions और perform further chemical प्रक्रियाओं on उन्हें.
वहीँ हैं three phases to the light-independent reactions, collectively called the Calvin cycle : कार्बन fixation, reduction प्रतिक्रियाएँ, and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( rubp ) regeneration.
despite its नाम, इस process occurs तभी when लाइट is उपलब्धियाँ.
पौधे do नहीं carry out the calvin cycle by रात्रि.
They, बजाय, release sucrose into the फ्लोएम इससे उनके मंड reserves.
This प्रक्रम happens जब light is उपलब्धियाँ independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 कार्बन fixation, c4 कार्बन fixation, and crassulacean Acid Metabolism ) ; CAM plants store malic एसिड in their vacuoles every night और रिलीज it by day in order to मेक इस प्रक्रम कार्य.
In गणित, a square क्रमांक or पूर्ण square is an integer that is the वर्गाकार of an पूर्णांक ; in अन्य words, it is the उत्पाद of some integer साथ itself.
लिये example, 9 is a square क्रमांक, चूंकि it can be लिखा as.
The usual संकेतन for the सूत्र लिये the वर्गाकार of a क्रमांक is not the product, but the equivalent घातांक, प्रायः सुनाया as `` वर्गाकार ''.
the name वर्गाकार क्रमांक comes from the नाम of the shape ; देखिए नीचे.
Square numbers are non-negative.
another रास्ता of saying कि a ( non-negative ) number is a square number, is that इसके square roots are again integers.
लिये example, = ±3, so 9 is a square क्रमांक.
a positive पूर्णांक that रै no पूर्ण वर्गाकार divisors मगर 1 is पुकारा square-free.
लिये a non-negative पूर्णांक, the th square number is, with होने the zeroth वर्गाकार.
the अवधारणा of square can be विस्तारित to some other क्रमांक systems.
if rational संख्याएँ are included, तब a square is the ratio of दो वर्गाकार integers, and, conversely, the ratio of two square integers is a वर्गाकार ( e.g., 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ).
starting साथ 1, there हैं वर्गाकार numbers up to और सहित, जहाँ the अभिव्यक्ति represents the मंजिल of the क्रमांक.
The Era of Good जज्बात marked a काल in the राजनैतिक history of the United States कि reflected a भाव of नेशनल purpose और a desire for unity among अमेरिकी in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars.
The era देखी the collapse of the federalist Party and an end to the bitter partisan विवादों between it और the dominant democratic-republican पार्टी दौरान the पहला Party प्रणाली.
अध्यक्ष James मुनरो endeavored to downplay दलगत संबद्ध in बनाना his nominations, with the ultimate goal of national unity and eliminating पार्टियों altogether इससे national राजनीती.
the काल is so closely संबद्ध साथ मुनरो 's प्रेसिडेंसी ( 1817–1825 ) और उसके administrative लक्ष्य that his नाम और the era हैं वस्तुतः synonymous.
The Era of Good Feelings चिह्नित a परिवर्तन in American राजनीती साथ the समाप्त of the Federalist Party as अमेरिका began to develop after the War of 1812.
While America was experiencing growth and prosperity बाद the युद्ध with Britain, इस era भी marks the पहला instance of आर्थिक troubles in the growing संयुक्त States.
Mirroring the अमरीकी प्रणाली प्रस्तावित by हेनरी मिट्टी, protective tariffs और the chartering of the Second बैंको of the United राज्य जटिल the tension between the उत्तर and South साथ the coming of the पहला वित्तीय crisis.
जबकि the term “Era of शुभ feelings” is प्रायः viewed साथ irony क्युकी of the political turmoil, आर्थिक factors caused animosity between the North और South.
the designation of the period by historians as एक of “good feelings” is प्रायः conveyed साथ विडंबना or skepticism, as the इतिहास of the era was एक in जिससे the राजनैतिक atmosphere was strained और divisive, विशेषकर among गिरोहों भीतर the मुनरो प्रशासन और the रिपब्लिकन Party.
the phrase “era of Good feelings” थी coined by Benjamin रसेल, in the बोस्टन Federalist newspaper, Columbian Centinel, on July 12, 1817, following मुनरो 's विज़िट to Boston, मैसाचुसेट्स as part of उसके good होगा दौरे of America.
Mariel मार्गरेट `` Mia '' hamm ( born कूच 17, 1972 ) is a रिटायर्ड अमरीकी professional सॉकर player.
hamm played many years as a आगे for the संयुक्त राज्य women 's national सॉकर team और was a founding सदस्य of the Washington स्वतंत्रता.
hamm scored 158 अंतरराष्ट्रीय लक्ष्य, अधिक than कोई other खिलाड़ी, male or मादा, in the history of soccer and is the third सबसे capped female player in सॉकर इतिहास behind kristine Lilly and क्रिस्टी rampone, appearing in 275 international मिलान.
hamm was नामित the women 's फीफा संसार खिलाड़ी of the Year the first two टाइम्स that पुरस्कार was दिए ( in 2001 and 2002 ), and is listed as one of फीफा 's 125 best जीना players ( as chosen by Pelé ).
वो was inducted into the नेशनल Soccer Hall of Fame as well as the Alabama खेल हॉल of कीर्ति and Texas खेल हॉल of Fame.
वो is the लेखक of go लिये the Goal : A चैंपियन 's मार्गदर्शिका to Winning in सॉकर और जीवन और appeared in the HBO वृत्तचित्र Dare to Dream : The स्टोरी of the u.S. महिलाओं 's Soccer Team.
वॉशिंगटन पोस्ट columnist माइकल wilbon पुकारा hamm, `` शायद the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण athlete of the last 15 years. ''
Hamm takes a corner लात.
the नई York रेड Bulls is an अमरीकी पेशेवर soccer team based in Harrison, नई जर्सी, representing the New यॉर्क metropolitan क्षेत्रफल.
the टोली competes in the पूर्वी Conference of Major League सॉकर ( mls ).
It is एक of the टेन चार्टर क्लब of mls, having competed in the लीग since इसके inception.
The टोली was a founding सदस्य of MLS ( 1996 ), but रै गए through several name changes.
The टोली was originally known as the New York/New जर्सी metrostars through 1997.
इससे the 1998 season through the 2005 season, the team was ज्ञात as the metrostars.
on March 9, 2006, the team was बेची to रेड सांड gmbh, leading to the टोली 's वर्तमान नाम.
वे हैं the तभी original MLS मताधिकार नहीं to have जीती कोई significant trophy ( including नियमित season, playoffs, और knockout प्रतियोगिता ) चूंकि inception.
the team 's बेहतरीन परिणाम in the mls थी the MLS कप फाइनल in 2008.
in the US खोलें कप, the MetroStars पहुँचे three semifinals ( 1997, 1998, 2000 ), पहले reaching उनके first फाइनल in 2003, खोने 1–0 to the Chicago Fire.
On अगस्त 26, 2000, the metros ' क्लिंट mathis set an mls रिकार्ड by scoring five goals in a खेल विरूद्ध the डलास बर्न.
Some well-known players that have निभाई for the team शामिल giovanni savarese, टिम हावर्ड, Tony meola, tab Ramos, alexi Lalas, क्लिंट Mathis, jozy altidore, Michael Bradley, क्लाउडियो reyna, एडी Pope, Roberto donadoni, Lothar matthäus, Adolfo वालेंसिया, Youri Djorkaeff, amado ग्वेरा, Juan Pablo ángel, Thierry हेनरी, Juninho pernambucano, जन गुन्नार Solli, राफेल मार्ख़ेस, and Tim Cahill.
the टोली has also had well-known कोच, including Carlos queiroz, कार्लोस Alberto Parreira, Bora Milutinović, bob ब्राडली, Mo johnston, Bruce एरिना and hans Backe.
Confucianism, taoism, और Buddhism हैं एक, a painting in the litang स्टाइल portraying तीन मेन हँस by a river स्ट्रीम, 12th सदी, सोंग राजवंश.
Estimating the number of बौद्धों in the world, or in many देशों, is मुश्किल due to definitional issues as खूब as व्यावहारिक problems of enumeration.
To begin साथ, the religious मान्यताओं, practices, और पहचान of East Asians ( जो comprise the majority of the world 's Buddhists by any माप ) प्रायः blend buddhism साथ other traditions including confucianism, the Chinese folk religion, Daoism, shinto, और Korean shamanism.
Most followers of Buddhism do नहीं belong to संरचित congregations, or observe a definite ritual of adherence such as taking शरण, making it मुश्किल to accurately estimate the number of practitioners.
An अतिरिक्त challenge is the hostility of अनेक नेशनल governments ( often Communist ones such as China or उत्तर Korea ) to धर्म generally or to Buddhism specifically.
सरकारी नीतियों in these देशों may प्रोत्साहित the under-reporting or non-reporting of religious adherence, resulting in आधिकारिक totals कि may drastically underestimate the number of religious practitioners in ये countries.
अनुमान of the worldwide बौद्ध population दायरा from 350 लाख to over एक अरब, लकिन क्लस्टर nearer to the first फिगर.
adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a figure of 397 million.
by major branches, the संख्याएँ are as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana buddhism, including ईस्ट एशियाई buddhism, with no fewer than 185 million adherents, और संभवतः several टाइम्स कि अनेक ( again, depending on definitional मुद्दे ).
इस is the predominant form of buddhism practiced in China, दक्षिण Korea, Japan, Taiwan, सिंगापुर, और Vietnam.
( 2 ) थेरवाद buddhism, with no कम than 125 million adherents.
इस is the predominant रूप of buddhism practiced in Cambodia, Thailand, लाओस, श्री Lanka, and बर्मा.
( 3 ) वज्रयान buddhism, with approximately 20 million adherents.
इस form predominates in the greater तिब्बती and मंगोलियाई regions, as well as in the Himalayas.
besides the independent countries of मंगोल और भूटान, और various territories भीतर कया is अभी western China, वज्रयान is परंपरागत to निश्चित regions of Russia ( e.g. कालमिकिया, बुर्यातिया ), इण्डिया ( e.g. लद्दाख, सिक्किम ), and नेपाल ( e.g. khumbu ).
Vajrayana, भी known as Tibetan buddhism, is often conflated with तांत्रिक buddhism, लकिन this is imprecise, as Shingon और other forms of East एशियाई buddhism भी practice तन्त्र.
At तनिक 7 countries ( Sri लंका, थाईलैंड, Cambodia, लाओस, Burma, Bhutan, और मंगोल ) have unambiguous Buddhist majorities.
depending on कैसा one calculates चाइनीज और अन्य East Asian adherents, इस फिगर might विस्तार to शामिल several more देशों.
in addition, Buddhism is the state religion of Cambodia and भूटान, and receives prominent जिक्र in the constitutions of Thailand and Sri Lanka.
in northern India और नेपाल, the land जहाँ Buddhism थी born, the धर्म severely declined during the पहला millennium.
whether this मनाही थी due to the Islamic conquest of उत्तरी India, or to अन्य कारकों, remains विवादास्पद.
See the article मनाही of buddhism in India.
James Butler Hickok ( may 27, 1837 – August 2, 1876 ), बेहतर ज्ञात as जंगली Bill Hickok, थी a folk hero of the American बूढ़ा वेस्ट.
उसके कौशल as a gunfighter और स्काउट, साथ साथ his प्रतिष्ठा as a lawman, provided the आधार लिये उसके fame, although कुछ of his reported exploits are fictionalized.
born and उठाया on a फार्म in rural Illinois, hickok went वेस्ट at age 18 as a fugitive from इंसाफ, first working as a stagecoach ड्राइवर, before he became a lawman in the frontier territories of Kansas और Nebraska.
he लड़ा for the Union Army दौरान the American Civil War, और gained publicity after the war as a स्काउट, marksman, कर्ता, and professional जुआरी.
between उसके law-enforcement duties और gambling, which easily overlapped, hickok थी involved in अनेक notable shootouts.
He थी शॉट और मारे जबकि playing poker in the nuttal & मन 's सैलून in Deadwood, डकोटा territory ( अभी South डकोटा ).
कलाकार 's conception of the जिज्ञासा rover vaporizing rock on Mars.
The रोवर landed on Mars in August 2012.
A मंगल rover is an स्वचालित मोटर गाडी जिससे propels itself across the सतह of the ग्रह मंगल बाद landing.
Rovers have अनेक advantages over stationary landers : वे examine more territory, they can be निर्देशित to interesting features, वे can place themselves in सनी स्थितियाँ to weather शीत months and they can अग्रिम the knowledge of कैसा to perform बहुत remote रोबोटिक vehicle control.
वहीँ have महरूम four कामयाब robotically संचालित Mars रोवर्स.
the Jet Propulsion प्रयोगशाला managed the Mars pathfinder मिशन और इसके अभी inactive sojourner rover.
It फिलहाल manages the Mars Exploration Rover mission 's active Opportunity रोवर और inactive Spirit, and, as part of the मंगल Science प्रयोगशाला मिशन, the जिज्ञासा रोवर.
A वित्तीय audit, or अधिक accurately, an audit of financial कथन, is the सत्यापन of the वित्तीय statements of a विधिक एंटिटी, साथ a view to एक्स्प्रेस an audit opinion.
the audit राय is intended to provide उचित assurance, लकिन नहीं निरपेक्ष परख, कि the financial कथन हैं प्रस्तुत fairly, in सब सामग्री respects, and/or give a true और fair दृश्य in accordance with the financial reporting framework.
the purpose of an audit is provide and objective independent examination of the वित्तीय कथन, जिससे increases the value and credibility of the financial statements उत्पादित by प्रबन्धन, thus increase उपयोक्ता विश्वास in the वित्तीय statement, reduce investor रिस्क and consequently reduce the cost of capital of the preparer of the वित्तीय कथन.
वित्तीय audits हैं typically performed by firms of practicing accountants जो are विशेषज्ञ in financial reporting.
The वित्तीय ऑडिट is one of अनेक परख कृत्यों provided by हिसाब firms.
अनेक संगठन separately employ or hire internal auditors, जो do not attest to financial रिपोर्ट्स लकिन फ़ोकस मुख्यतः on the आतंरिक नियंत्रण of the संगठन.
बाह्य auditors may चुनें to प्लेस सीमित reliance on the कार्य of internal auditors.
auditing promotes transparency and accuracy in the वित्तीय disclosures बना by an organization, इसलिए would संभावित to reduce of such corporations to conceal unscrupulous dealings.
internationally, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Standards on auditing ( isa ) जारी by the International auditing और Assurance Standards फलक ( IAASB ) is माना as the benchmark लिये audit process.
Almost सब jurisdictions require auditors to follow the isa or a local variation of the isa.
डालर सिक्के have been minted in the संयुक्त States in सुनहरा, silver, और base मेटल versions.
The term चांदी डालर is often प्रयुक्त लिये any विशाल श्वेत मेटल coin जारी by the United राज्य with a face value of एक dollar, although purists insist that a डालर is not चांदी जबतक it contains कुछ of that मेटल.
चांदी dollars, the first डालर coin समस्या, यहूद minted शुरूआत in 1794.
Gold डॉलर और gold-colored dollars have also been उत्पादित by the United States.
the sacagawea और Presidential डॉलर हैं often referred to as `` golden डॉलर ''.
In आधुनिक times, डालर coins have नहीं महरूम very popular in the संयुक्त States.
Despite प्रयत्न by the government to promote उनके use, सबसे अमेरिकी currently use the one dollar bill rather than dollar सिक्के.
in सीधा और स्तर उड़ान लिफ्ट ( L ) बराबरी वज़न ( w ).
in a banked फेरे of 60°, लिफ्ट equals double the वज़न ( l=2w ).
The pilot experiences 2g and a doubled weight.
The steeper the बैंको, the वृहद the g-forces.
This top-fuel dragster can accelerate from zero to in 0.86 सेकेंड.
This is a horizontal acceleration of 5.3 g. संयुक्त साथ the vertical g-force in the stationary मामला the Pythagorean प्रमेय yields a g फ़ोर्स of 5.4 g.
g-force ( with g from gravitational ) is a term लिये accelerations लगा as weight और measurable by accelerometers.
it is not a फ़ोर्स, प्रति se, but a फ़ोर्स per ईकाई द्रव्यमान.
चूंकि ऐसे a force is perceived as a वज़न, कोई g-force can be described as a `` weight प्रति ईकाई द्रव्यमान '' ( see the synonym विशिष्ट weight ).
The g-force acceleration acts as a गुणक of weight-like शक्तियां लिये प्रत्येक unit of an object 's द्रव्यमान, और ( save for certain electromagnetic force प्रभाव ) is the cause of an object 's acceleration in relation to free-fall.
इस त्वरण अनुभवी by an ऑब्जेक्ट is due to the वेक्टर योग of non-gravitational शक्तियां acting on an ऑब्जेक्ट फ़्री to move.
the accelerations कि हैं not उत्पादित by gravity are termed proper accelerations, और it is तभी these that हैं measured in g-force इकाई.
वे कारण तनावों और strains on objects.
Because of ये strains, विशाल g-forces may be destructive.
Gravitation एक्टिंग alone does not produce a g-force, भी though g-forces हैं expressed in multiples of the त्वरण of a मानक gravity.
Thus, the मानक गुरुत्वाकर्षक त्वरण at the धरती 's surface produces g-force तभी indirectly, as a परिणाम of resistance to it by mechanical शक्तियां.
The 1 g-force on an ऑब्जेक्ट sitting on the धरती 's सतह is caused by mechanical force exerted in the upward direction by the ground, keeping the ऑब्जेक्ट from going into free-fall.
the upward force from the मैदान ensures that an object at बाकी on the Earth 's surface is accelerating सापेक्ष to the free-fall कंडीशन, which is the पाथ कि the ऑब्जेक्ट would follow when गिरना freely toward the धरती 's बीच.
Objects अनुमत to free-fall in an inertial trajectory under the influence of gravitation-only, feel no g-force.
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' conditions inside a freely falling लिफ्ट गिरना toward the धरती 's center ( in वैक्यूम ), or ( to शुभ approximation ) शर्तें अंदर a spacecraft in धरती orbit.
ये are उदाहरण of निर्देशांक त्वरण ( a change in गति ) without a sensation of weight.
the अनुभव of no g-force ( zero-g ), however it is produced, is synonymous with weightlessness.
in the absence of gravitational fields, or in directions at सही angles to them, उचित and coordinate accelerations हैं the वही, और any coordinate त्वरण जरूर be produced by a corresponding g-force त्वरण.
An example here is a प्रक्षेपास्त्र in फ़्री स्पेस, in जिससे सरल changes in velocity हैं उत्पादित by the engines, और produce g-forces on the rocket and passengers.
An augur holding a lituus, the curved wand प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a प्रतीक of augury on Roman coins
the augur थी a priest and आधिकारिक in the classical संसार, विशेषकर प्राचीन रोम और Etruria.
उसके main भूमिका थी to interpret the will of the gods by studying the flight of birds : whether they हैं flying in समूह or अलोन, what noises they make as they fly, direction of flight and what दयालु of birds वे हैं.
This was ज्ञात as `` taking the auspices. ''
The ceremony and function of the augur was सेंट्रल to any प्रमुख undertaking in Roman society—public or private—including matters of युद्ध, कॉमर्स, and religion.
The रोमन इतिहासकार Livy तनावों the importance of the augurs : `` Who does not जान कि this city was संस्थापित तभी after लेने the auspices, that सबकुछ in war और in सलाम, at घर और विदेश, was किया only after taking the auspices ? ''
Farmington पहाड़ियाँ is an affluent community in southeastern Michigan.
it is the दूसरी largest city in Oakland County in the U.S. state of मिशिगन.
इसके population थी 79,740 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
it is part of the upscale northwestern उपनगरों of महानगर डेट्रॉयट और is also पूर्वोत्तर of downtown ऐन arbor.
Farmington Hills consistently ranks as एक of the safest शहरों in the संयुक्त राज्य, as खूब as in the state of Michigan.
in 2010, the क्षेत्रफल क्रमित as the 30th safest city in America.
हालांकि the two शहरों have पृथक सेवाएं और पता, farmington and farmington Hills are प्रायः thought of as the वही community.
सुविधाएँ of the जातियाँ include a recently renovated downtown, boutiques, a vintage cinema, numerous रेस्तरां, exotic car dealerships, art गैलरी, and पब्लिक पार्क सहित विरासत पार्क.
वहीँ are several historical साइट including the Longacre House and the Governor warner mansion.
दोनो शहरों are परोसा by Farmington पब्लिक Schools.
Farmington पहाड़ियाँ serves as a major business बीच for the greater डेट्रॉयट क्षेत्रफल.
present-day impression of a Late Bronze Age seal
Town मुहर ( मेट्रिक्स ) of náchod इससे 1570
a seal is a device लिये बनाना an impression in मोम, मिट्टी, पेपर, or कुछ अन्य medium, सहित an embossment on paper, and is भी the छाप thus बना.
The original purpose was to authenticate a document, a wrapper लिये one such as a modern envelope, or the कवर of a संग्राहक or पैकेज holding valuables or अन्य वस्तुएँ.
the sealing process is essentially that of a mould, with the final चित्र represented on the यंत्र for बनाना the छाप by a mirror-image design, incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio.
The seal-making device is also referred to as the मुहर मेट्रिक्स or die ; the imprint it creates as the मुहर impression ( or, अधिक rarely, the sealing ).
if the impression is made purely as a relief resulting from the वृहद pressure on the paper where the high parts of the matrix टच, the seal is known as a शुष्क seal ; in सब other मामले a द्रव or liquified मीडियम ( ऐसे as ink or wax ) is used, usually in another रंग than the paper.
For विधिक उद्देश्य, the definition of a मुहर may be extended to include रबर stamps, or writing निर्दिष्ट words ( `` seal '' or `` L.S. `` ).
in the संयुक्त राज्य, the word `` मुहर '' is sometimes आबंटित to a facsimile of the seal design ( in मोनोक्रोम or रंग ), which may be प्रयुक्त in a किस्में of contexts सहित architectural settings, on ध्वज, or on आधिकारिक letterheads.
यूँ, लिये example, the ग्रेट मुहर of the संयुक्त States, among other उपयोग, appears on the reverse of the one-dollar bill ; and several of the seals of the u.S. राज्य appear on उनके respective state flags.
In Europe, हालांकि coats of arms and heraldic badges may खूब विशेषता in such contexts as खूब as on seals, the मुहर डिज़ाइन in its entirety rarely appears as an emblem.
the study of seals is known as sigillography or sphragistics.
groundhog दिन ( Pennsylvania German : Grundsaudaag, murmeltiertag ) is a day मनाये on February 2.
according to लोकगीत, if it is cloudy when a groundhog emerges from its burrow on this day, then spring will आइये early ; if it is सनी, the groundhog will supposedly see इसके shadow and रिट्रीट वापस into इसके burrow, and the शीत weather will continue लिये छह more weeks.
Modern customs of the holiday involve जश्न जहाँ जल्दी morning festivals हैं held to देखें the groundhog emerging from its burrow.
in southeastern Pennsylvania, groundhog Lodges ( grundsow lodges ) celebrate the holiday with fersommlinge, social events in जिससे food is परोसा, भाषणों हैं made, और एक or अधिक g'spiel ( plays or skits ) are performed for entertainment.
The Pennsylvania German dialect is the तभी language spoken at the इवेंट, और those who speak अंग्रेज़ी pay a दंड, usually in the form of a nickel, dime, or क्वार्टर प्रति word spoken, साथ the money put into a कटोरी in the center of the table.
the largest Groundhog Day celebration is held in Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania.
groundhog Day, already a widely पहचाना और popular tradition, received widespread ध्यान as a result of the 1993 फिल्मी Groundhog Day, जिससे was set in punxsutawney, PA ( though filmed primarily in Woodstock, il ) and portrayed Punxsutawney Phil.
ऊँची रेज़ोल्यूशन चित्र of Tampa खाड़ी region
the tampa Bay क्षेत्रफल रै a आर्द्र उपोष्ण climate ( koppen cfa ), with warm और आर्द्र summers with बारंबार thunderstorms और drier सर्दियों with freezing temperatures occurring प्रत्येक 2–3 years.
the area अनुभवों a significant summer गीला season, as nearly two-thirds of the annual वर्षण falls in the महीने of June through September.
The क्षेत्रफल is सूचीबद्ध by the United States Department of कृषि ( USDA ) as being in hardiness मण्डल 10, which is परिचय the उत्तरी सीमा of जहाँ coconut palms and royal palms can be grown.
highs usually range between 65 and 95 °f ( 18 and 35 °c ) year गोलाकार.
हालांकि known for hot ग्रीष्म, Tampa 's official ऊँची रै never पहुँचे 100 °f ( 38 °C ) – the city 's all-time रिकार्ड तापमान is 99 °f ( 37 °c ).
St. Petersburg 's all-time रिकार्ड ऊँची is exactly 100 °f ( 38 °c ).
Pinellas काउंटी lies on a peninsula between Tampa Bay और the गल्फ of Mexico, और much of the city of Tampa lies on a smaller peninsula jutting आउट into Tampa खाड़ी.
This निकटता to large लाशें of water both moderates temperatures and introduces विशाल amounts of humidity into the माहौल.
in सामान्य, the लोकल communities farthest from the coast have larger तापमान सीमाएँ, both during a single दिन and throughout the seasons of the साल.
A diagram of the electromagnetic वर्णक्रम, प्रर्दशित various गुण across the range of frequencies and wavelengths
the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम is the range of सब possible बारंबारता of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक radiation.
The `` इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक spectrum '' of an ऑब्जेक्ट has a अलग meaning, and is instead the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic विकिरण emitted or अवशोषित by that particular object.
The electromagnetic वर्णक्रम extends from नीचे the कम बारंबारता प्रयुक्त लिये modern रेडियो संचार to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end, thereby covering wavelengths इससे हज़ारों of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom.
the सीमा लिये long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself, जबकि it is विचार that the short wavelength सीमा is in the vicinity of the Planck लंबाई, हालांकि in principle the वर्णक्रम is infinite और निरन्तर.
सबसे parts of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम हैं प्रयुक्त in science for spectroscopic and अन्य probing interactions, as ways to पढ़ाई और characterize पदार्थ.
In addition, radiation इससे various parts of the वर्णक्रम रै found अनेक अन्य uses for संचार and manufacturing ( देखिए electromagnetic radiation लिये more अनुप्रयोग ).
लेजेंड
फ्रैंकलिन Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30, 1882 – अप्रैल 12, 1945 ), भी known by उसके आद्याक्षर, fdr, was the 32nd अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य ( 1933–1945 ) and a central फिगर in संसार events दौरान the mid-20th century, leading the United States during a समय of worldwide आर्थिक depression और कुल war.
a dominant leader of the लोकतांत्रिक Party and the only American president elected to more than two शर्तें, he built a नई सौदे गठबन्धन that realigned American politics after 1932, as उसके domestic नीतियों defined American liberalism for the middle तीसरा of the 20th सदी.
With the bouncy popular song `` प्रसन्न Days हैं यहाँ Again `` as his campaign theme, FDR defeated लाज़िम रिपब्लिकन हर्बर्ट हूवर in November 1932, at the गहराई of the ग्रेट अवसाद.
Energized by his निजी victory over polio, FDR 's unfailing आशावाद और activism contributed to a नवीकरण of the नेशनल spirit.
he worked closely with अंग्रेजों Prime मंत्री विंस्टन चर्चिल and Soviet सामान्य सचिव Joseph स्टालिन in अग्रणी the allies against Germany और जापानी in World War ii, and restoring समृद्धि to the nation 's economy.
in उसके पहला सौ days in office, जिससे began कूच 4, 1933, Roosevelt पथप्रदर्शन प्रमुख legislation और issued a profusion of कार्यपालिका आदेश कि instituted the नई सौदे —a variety of programs designed to उपज relief ( सरकारी jobs लिये the बेरोजगार ), रिकवरी ( आर्थिक growth ), और reform ( through विनियमन of Wall Street, banks and परिवहन ).
the अर्थव्यवस्था improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937, but then relapsed into a deep recession.
The bipartisan रूढ़िवादी Coalition कि formed in 1937 prevented उसके पैकिंग the Supreme अदालत or गुजर any considerable विधान ; it abolished many of the relief कार्यक्रम जब बेरोजगारी diminished during संसार युद्ध II.
Most of the regulations on कारोबार were ended about 1975–85, मगर लिये the विनियमन of Wall Street by the प्रतिभूति और Exchange Commission, which स्टिल exists.
Along साथ several छोटी कार्यक्रम, प्रमुख surviving कार्यक्रम शामिल the Federal Deposit बीमे Corporation, which was निर्मित in 1933, and सोशल सुरक्षा, which कॉंग्रेस passed in 1935.
as संसार युद्ध II loomed बाद 1938, साथ the Japanese invasion of चीन and the आक्रामकता of नाजी जर्मनी, FDR gave दमदार diplomatic and वित्तीय support to चीन और ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, while बाकी officially neutral.
His goal थी to make अमेरिका the `` आर्सेनल of लोकतंत्र `` which would सप्लाई munitions to the allies.
in March 1941, Roosevelt, with Congressional स्वीकृति, provided Lend-Lease aid to the countries लड़ against नाजी जर्मनी with ब्रिटेन.
With very strong नेशनल support, he बना युद्ध on Japan और जर्मनी after the Japanese आक्रमण on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, कॉलिंग it a `` date जिससे होगा live in infamy ``.
He supervised the mobilization of the u.S. economy to support the Allied युद्ध effort.
As an active सैन्य नेता, Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy on दो fronts कि ended in the defeat of the अक्ष शक्तियां and the development of the world 's पहला atom bomb.
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese अमरीकी civilians.
बेरोजगारी dropped to 2 %, राहत programs largely ended, और the औद्योगिक economy grew rapidly to नई हाइट्स as लाखो of people moved to new कार्य in युद्ध centers, and 16 लाख मेन और 300,000 women यहूद drafted or volunteered for military service.
Roosevelt वर्चस्व the American राजनैतिक झाँकी not only दौरान the बारह years of his प्रेसिडेंसी, लकिन also for decades afterward.
He orchestrated the realignment of मतदाता that created the पांचवां Party प्रणाली.
FDR 's New सौदे गठबन्धन united labor unions, big city मशीने, श्वेत ethnics, African Americans और ग्रामीण श्वेत southerners.
he भी बहकावे the बाद सृष्टि of the United राष्ट्र और bretton Woods.
रूज़वेल्ट is consistently rated by scholars as one of the शीर्ष तीन U.S. राष्ट्रपतियों, साथ with Abraham Lincoln and जार्ज Washington.
A liberal डेमोक्रेट, Roosevelt पारिभाषित उसके ideological स्थिति as `` a little बाएँ of center. ''
A Joint Committee is a पद in राजनीती that is प्रयुक्त to refer to a committee made up of members of both कक्षों of a bicameral legislature.
In other contexts, it refers to a कमेटी with members from अधिक than one organization.
the विनियमन of prostitution in the United राज्य is not among the enumerated शक्तियां of the federal सरकारी ; अंतर्गत the दसवाँ amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य Constitution, it is therefore exclusively the डोमेन of the states to परमिट, prohibit, or otherwise regulate commercial sex, मगर insofar as कॉंग्रेस may regulate it as भाग of अंतरराज्यीय कॉमर्स साथ कानून like the मन Act.
in most राज्य, prostitution is considered a misdemeanor in the category of public order अपराधों, a crime that disrupts the order of a community.
it थी at one time considered to be a vagrancy crime.
Currently, नेवाडा is the तभी state to allow brothel वेश्यावृति, the terms of जिससे are stipulated in the Nevada संशोधित Statutes.
तभी 8 counties currently contain active brothels.
सब forms of prostitution are illegal in क्लार्क काउंटी ( जिससे contains the Las vegas–paradise metropolitan क्षेत्रफल ), Washoe County ( which contains रेनो ), कार्सन City, डगलस काउंटी, and lincoln काउंटी.
the अन्य counties theoretically allow brothel वेश्यावृति, लकिन कुछ of these काउंटी फिलहाल have no क्रियाशील brothels.
Street prostitution, `` pandering, '' and living off of the proceeds of a prostitute remain illegal अंतर्गत नेवाडा विधि, as elsewhere in the country.
as with other countries, prostitution in the United States can be विभाजित into तीन व्यापक श्रेणी : गली prostitution, वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति, और अनुरक्षण prostitution.
The national flag of the संयुक्त States of America, प्रायः simply referred to as the American ध्वज, consists of तेरह equal आड़ा stripes of red ( शीर्ष और नीचे ) प्रत्यावर्ती साथ white, साथ a ब्लू आयताकार in the कैण्टन ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty छोटी, श्वेत, five-pointed stars arranged in नौ ऑफसेट आड़ा पंक्ति of छह stars ( top और नीचे ) प्रत्यावर्ती साथ पंक्ति of five सितारों.
the 50 सितारों on the ध्वज represent the 50 states of the United States of अमेरिका and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen अंग्रेजों colonies कि declared independence from the Kingdom of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन and became the first states in the Union.
nicknames for the ध्वज include the `` Stars और धारियाँ '', `` बूढ़ा Glory ``, और `` the Star-Spangled Banner. ''
India is a federal union of राज्य comprising twenty-eight राज्य और सात संघ territories.
the राज्य and territories हैं further subdivided into districts and so on.
congressional districts for the 113th संयुक्त States कॉंग्रेस
2010 जनसांख्यिकी change:
बदलें in apportionment of congressional जिले, starting in 2013, as a result of the 2010 census.
2000 जनसांख्यिकी change:
Change in apportionment of congressional जिले, from 2003 to 2013, as a result of the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
इस is a complete list of congressional जिले लिये प्रतिनिधित्व in the United States हाउस of Representatives.
the quantity ( apportionment ) and boundaries ( redistricting ) of जिले are संकल्पित after each census, हालांकि in some मामले राज्य have changed the boundaries more than once प्रति जनसांख्यिकी.
इस सूची includes the 435 current और over 200 obsolete districts.
For example, चूंकि the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी, नेब्रास्का has था three districts, but it प्रयुक्त to have as अनेक as six.
In the पहला दशक of the twenty-first सदी, टेक्सास had 32 जिले, but रै since added चार due to reapportionment as a result of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
Other states have खोया districts चूंकि the क्रमांक of congressional सीटे has महरूम set at 435 by statute.
भी included here हैं non-voting delegations : छह वर्तमान and four obsolete.
The सीमाएँ of जिले often शिफ़्ट साथ प्रत्येक redistricting.
over समय, the प्रदेश और जनसांख्यिकी represented in a district can बदलें substantially.
Furthermore, districts sometimes retain the same सीमाएँ जबकि changing their district numbers.
Mariah कैरी ( born March 27, 1970 ) is an अमरीकी singer, songwriter, record निर्माता, अभिनेत्री, और लोकसेवक.
Under the मार्गदर्शन of कोलंबिया Records कार्यपालिका Tommy mottola, Carey released her self-titled डेब्यू studio एल्बम mariah Carey in 1990 ; it गई multi-platinum and spawned चार लगातार number one singles on the u.s. बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 चार्ट.
following उसके marriage to mottola in 1993 and success with hit records भाव ( 1991 ), Music Box ( 1993 ), और Merry क्रिसमस ( 1994 ), कैरी was established as कोलंबिया 's highest-selling act.
daydream ( 1995 ) बना म्यूज़िक history जब its second सिंगल `` One Sweet Day ``, a duet साथ बॉयज ii Men, spent a रिकार्ड सोलह weeks on top of the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100, and remains the longest-running number-one song in U.S. चार्ट history.
दौरान the रिकॉर्डिंग of the album, Carey began to deviate इससे उसके r & B and pop beginnings and धीरे traversed into हिप hop.
This musical change became evident with the release of Butterfly ( 1997 ), at जिससे time Carey had separated इससे Mottola.
कैरी left Columbia in 2000, and हस्ताक्षरित a record-breaking $ 100 million रिकॉर्डिंग contract with वर्जिन रिकॉर्ड.
Before the रिलीज of her first feature film Glitter ( 2001 ), वो suffered a physical and emotional विश्लेषण and थी hospitalized for कठोर थकावट.
following the फिल्मी 's poor reception, she थी bought आउट of उसके रिकॉर्डिंग contract लिये $ 50 million, which led to a decline in her करियर.
She signed a multi-million डालर अनुबंध deal साथ द्वीप रिकॉर्ड in 2002, and after an unsuccessful period, returned to the शीर्ष of music charts with the Emancipation of मिमी ( 2005 ).
Its दूसरी single `` We belong साथ `` became her सबसे successful सिंगल of the 2000s, and थी later नामित `` सोंग of the दशक '' by बिलबोर्ड.
Carey once again ventured into फिल्मी साथ a well-received अभिनीत भूमिका in ( 2009 ) ; वो थी awarded the `` Breakthrough Performance पुरस्कार '' at the Palm Springs International Film Festival, और Black रील and NAACP Image पुरस्कार nominations.
In a करियर spanning over two दशकों, कैरी रै sold अधिक than 200 million records worldwide, बनाना उसके एक of the best-selling music कलाकारों of all time.
in 1998, वो was सम्मानित as the world 's best-selling recording artist of the 1990s at the World म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार.
कैरी थी भी named the best-selling female कलाकार of the millennium in 2000.
According to the Recording Industry Association of अमेरिका, वो is the तीसरा best-selling female कलाकार in the United राज्य, with 63.5 million certified एल्बम.
With the release of `` टच My Body `` ( 2008 ), कैरी gained her eighteenth number one single in the संयुक्त States, अधिक than any अन्य सोलो artist.
In 2012, Carey थी ranked दूसरी on vh1 's list of the `` 100 महानतम Women in म्यूज़िक ''.
aside from her commercial accomplishments, कैरी रै जीती five Grammy Awards, 17 संसार Music Awards, 11 अमरीकी म्यूज़िक Awards, और 31 बिलबोर्ड Music Awards.
Referred to as the `` songbird परम् '' by the Guinness World रिकॉर्ड, she is famed for her five-octave गायन range, power, melismatic स्टाइल and हस्ताक्षर उपयोग of the whistle register.
Stratocumulus stratiformis cumulogenitus
in meteorology, a cloud is a visible mass of द्रव droplets or frozen crystals made of जल or various chemicals निलंबित in the माहौल ऊपर the surface of a planetary देह.
ये suspended अणु are also known as aerosols.
Clouds in धरती 's atmosphere हैं studied in the बादल physics शाखा of meteorology.
Two प्रक्रियाओं, possibly acting together, can lead to एयर बनने saturated ; कूलिंग the air or adding water vapor to the air.
in सामान्य, precipitation will fall to the सतह ; an एक्सेप्शन is virga, जिससे evaporates before reaching the सतह.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय cloud वर्गीकरण system is आधारित on the फैक्ट clouds in their सबसे मौलिक forms can show free-convective upward विकास जैसे cumulus, appear in non-convective layered sheets such as स्ट्रेट्स, or लो the form of thin तंतुमय wisps, as in the case of पक्षाभ.
prefixes हैं used in कनेक्शन with clouds to एक्स्प्रेस variations or complexities in ये मौलिक forms or to specify middle or ऊँची altitude ranges.
These include strato- for low clouds साथ सीमित convection that form ज़्यादातर in uneven परतों, cumulo- लिये complex highly-convective storm clouds, nimbo- for thick layered बादल of कुछ जटिलता कि can उपज moderate to heavy precipitation, alto- for मध्य बादल, and cirro- लिये high clouds ; the latter दो of which may be of सरल or मध्यम complex structure.
Whether or not a बादल is low, मध्य, or ऊँची level depends on कैसा दूर ऊपर the ground its base forms.
Cloud प्रकार with significant vertical extent can रूप in the low or middle altitude ranges depending on the नमी content of the air.
Clouds in the troposphere have Latin names due to the लोकप्रिय adaptation of ल्यूक हावर्ड 's बादल categorization system, which began to स्प्रेड in popularity during December 1802.
synoptic surface weather observations use कोड numbers to रिकार्ड and report the प्रकार of tropospheric cloud दृश्य at प्रत्येक scheduled observation time based on the height और शारीरिक appearance of the बादल.
जबकि a majority of बादल रूप in Earth 's क्षोभमण्डल, वहीँ हैं अवसरों when बादल in the stratosphere और mesosphere can be observed.
ये तीन प्रमुख layers of the माहौल where clouds may be देखी हैं collectively known as the homosphere.
Above this lies the thermosphere and exosphere, जिससे साथ make up the heterosphere कि marks the transition to outer स्पेस.
Clouds have महरूम observed on अन्य ग्रह और moons भीतर the सौर प्रणाली, but, due to उनके अलग तापमान विशेषताएँ, वे हैं रचित of other substances ऐसे as methane, अमोनिया, and sulfuric एसिड.
Galveston County is a काउंटी located in the u.S. state of टेक्सास within the Houston–Sugar Land–Baytown महानगर area.
As of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, the population थी 291,309.
Its काउंटी seat is Galveston.
लीग नगर is the largest city in Galveston काउंटी in terms of population ; url_http between 2000 and 2005 it surpassed galveston as the काउंटी 's largest नगर.
galveston County was संस्थापित in 1838.
Nassau
freeport, Bahamas
इस is a सूची of cities in the बहामा.
The following table lists the नगर or town नाम, the geographic निर्देशांक, the population as of the 1990 census, an estimate of the जनसांख्यिकी as of 2009, और the द्वीप name.
the Big Ten सम्मेलन, formerly Western Conference and बिग नौ सम्मेलन, is the oldest Division i college athletic सम्मेलन in the संयुक्त राज्य.
इसके twelve member संस्थानों ( जिससे are primarily flagship research विश्वविद्यालयों in their संबंधित राज्य, well-regarded academically, and with relatively विशाल student enrollment ) हैं स्तिथ primarily in the Midwest, stretching इससे नेब्रास्का in the वेस्ट to Penn राज्य in the east.
The सम्मेलन competes in the ncaa 's प्रभाग I ; its फ़ुटबॉल टीमों compete in the फ़ुटबॉल Bowl subdivision ( FBS ), formerly ज्ञात as Division I-A, the highest स्तर of ncaa competition in that खेल.
Member schools of the बिग Ten ( or, in दो मामले, their parent विश्वविद्यालयों systems ) भी are members of the कमेटी on Institutional सहयोग, a leading educational और शोध consortium.
despite the conference 's नाम, the Big टेन actually consists of 12 schools, following the जोड of the Pennsylvania राज्य University in 1993 and the विश्वविद्यालयों of nebraska–lincoln in 2011.
In 2014, the conference will expand to 14 members साथ the additions of the University of मेरीलैंड, College Park and Rutgers, the राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों of नई जर्सी.
It is नहीं to be उलझन with the बिग 12 Conference, जिससे has तभी टेन स्कूलों and represents a अलग प्रदेश of the देश.
सिंगल Malt Scotch is single malt whisky made in स्कॉटलैंड using a घट still distillation प्रक्रम at a सिंगल डिस्टिलरी, साथ malted जौ as the only अनाज ingredient.
as with any Scotch whisky, a सिंगल malt स्कॉच जरूर be आसुत in Scotland और matured in ओक casks in Scotland लिये at least तीन सालो ( सबसे सिंगल malts are matured longer ).
`` Malt '' indicates that the व्हिस्की is distilled from a `` malted '' grain.
Several types of दाने can be malted ( लिये example, जौ, rye and गेहूं are all grains जिससे can be malted ) ; however, in the case of single malt Scotch, जौ is सदा the only अनाज प्रयुक्त.
`` Single '' indicates कि all the malts in the bottle आइये from a सिंगल distillery.
Bottlings containing malt व्हिस्की इससे multiple distilleries हैं called `` blended malt ``.
जबतक the स्कॉच व्हिस्की Regulations 2009 ( SWR 2009 ), the शब्द `` blended '' only appeared ( in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of Scotch whisky ) on bottles of whisky that contained a मिश्रण of दोनो जौ और non-barley अनाज whisky, लकिन this is no longer the मामला.
Under the terminology established by the SWR 2009, a `` blended malt स्कॉच व्हिस्की '' is a mixture of single malt स्कॉच whiskies, not a mixture of malted जौ whisky and non-barley whisky ; those हैं पुकारा `` blended Scotch व्हिस्की '', without the शब्द `` malt ''.
the पद `` blended malt '' replaced `` vatted malt '' प्रयुक्त अंतर्गत the prior labelling conventions.
The age बयान on a बोतल of single malt स्कॉच is the क्रमांक of years the whisky खर्च maturing in cask.
as very few whiskies हैं bottled from a सिंगल cask the आयु बयान reflects the age of the youngest malt in the mix.
A texture may be arranged so as to, `` closely approach the single-object status of fused-ensemble timbres, लिये उदाहरण, the खूबसूरत 'northern lights ' कॉर्ड..., in a very दिलचस्प distribution of pitches, produces a fused ध्वनि समर्थित by a suspended cymbal फेंकें `` ( एरिक्सन ( 1975 ), p.166 & 168 ).
In कंट्रास्ट to अधिक परंपरागत musical textures, sound mass composition `` minimizes the importance of individual pitches in वरीयता लिये बनावट, timbre, and डायनामिक्स as primary shapers of भाव and प्रभाव. ''
विकसित from the modernist tone clusters और स्प्रेड to orchestral लिखने by the लेट 1950s and 1960s, sound-mass `` obscures the boundary between sound और रव `` ( Edwards 2001, pp. 326–27 ).
Techniques जिससे may create or be used साथ ध्वनि mass शामिल extended techniques ऐसे as मूक पीतल or strings, flutter tonguing, wide vibrato, extreme ranges, और glissandos.
composers और works शामिल बारबरा kolb, pauline oliveros ' ध्वनि Patterns लिये कोरस ( 1961 ), Norma beecroft 's From सपनो of पीतल लिये कोरस ( 1963–1964 ), और Nancy वैन de Vate.
Beecroft `` टुकड़ा individual pitches in एहसान of a collective timbre through the उपयोग of गायन और इंस्ट्रूमेंटल क्लस्टर, choral speech, narrator, और a धो of ध्वनि from an electronic टेप. ''
( ibid )
A very जल्दी example is the opening of Jean-Féry Rebel 's ballet लेस elémens ( 1737–38 ), जहाँ अराजकता is represented by a gradually cumulating orchestral क्लस्टर of all seven notes of the D नाबालिग स्केल ( Henck 2004, pp. 52–54 ).
a बाद उदाहरण is the third गति of रुथ Crawford Seeger 's स्ट्रिंग quartet 1931 ( Nonesuch H-71280 ) जबकि अधिक recently phill Niblock 's multiple drone based म्यूज़िक serves as an example.
the use of `` मदारी approaching timbres '' begins साथ debussy और Edgard varèse प्रायः carefully scored individual इंस्ट्रूमेंटल parts so that वे would fuse into एक ensemble timbre or sound mass ( एरिक्सन 1975, pp. 18 and 21 ).
Other examples शामिल यूरोपीय `` textural '' compositions of the fifties and sixties ऐसे as Krzysztof Penderecki 's Threnody to the पीड़ितों of Hiroshima ( 1959 ) और györgy Ligeti 's works featuring micropolyphony in works जैसे Atmosphères ( 1961 ) और his Requiem ( 1963-65 ).
अन्य composers with works using this तकनीक include Henryk Górecki, karel Husa, witold lutosławski, Kazimierz Serocki, and स्टीवन stucky.
Sound mass तकनीकों भी appear in the music of George Crumb ( Anon. n.d. ).
विद्यार्थी उपस्थित a लेक्चर on linear बीजगणित at the हेलसिंकी University of Technology
Pupils in ग्रामीण Sudan, 2002
A student is a learner, or किसी who attends an educational institution.
In some nations, the English term ( or its cognate in another language ) is reserved लिये those जो attend university, जबकि a schoolchild under the आयु of अठारह is पुकारा a pupil in अंग्रेज़ी ( or an समतुल्य in अन्य भाषाएं ), हालांकि in the United States a person enrolled in ग्रेड k–12 is प्रायः called a student.
In इसके widest उपयोग, student is used लिये anyone जो is सीखना.
ऑस्ट्रेलिया is a continent comprising mainland Australia, Tasmania, New गिनी, seram, संभवतः Timor, and neighbouring islands.
the continent is sometimes known in तकनीकी contexts by the names sahul, Australinea or meganesia, to फर्क it from the Australian मेनलैंड.
it is the smallest of the सात परंपरागत महाद्वीपों in the अंग्रेज़ी धारणा.
नई Zealand is नहीं part of the continent of ऑस्ट्रेलिया, but of the separate, submerged महाद्वीप of zealandia.
zealandia और Australia are both part of the wider regions ज्ञात as Australasia and Oceania.
The महाद्वीप of Australia lies on a महाद्वीपीय shelf overlain by उथले seas which divide it into अनेक landmasses — the Arafura Sea and Torres जलसन्धि between मेनलैंड ऑस्ट्रेलिया और New Guinea, and बास जलसन्धि between मेनलैंड Australia और तस्मानिया.
जब समुद्र levels यहूद lower दौरान the pleistocene बर्फ आयु, including the last glacial अधिकतम परिचय 18,000 BC, वे यहूद connected by dry जमीन.
During the past टेन हजार years, उठती sea स्तर overflowed the lowlands and separated the continent into आज 's low-lying arid to semi-arid mainland and the two mountainous आइलैंड्स of New Guinea और Tasmania.
Geologically, a महाद्वीप extends to the edge of its continental शेल्फ, so the now-separate आइलैंड्स are माना part of the continent.
Due to the स्प्रेड of पशु, fungi और plants आरपार the single Pleistocene landmass the पृथक lands have a related biota.
Central पार्क is nearly twice as big as the संसार 's second-smallest देश, मोनाको.
Historically its reservoirs were महत्वपूर्ण components of the नगर 's water supply.
Environmental मुद्दे in नई York नगर are प्रभावित by the city 's size, density, abundant public परिवहन infrastructure, और स्थान at the mouth of the हडसन River.
New York 's जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व रै पर्यावरणीय pros and cons.
it facilitates the उच्चतम द्रव्यमान पारगमन उपयोग in the संयुक्त राज्य, but भी concentrates प्रदूषण.
Gasoline खपत in the city is at the rate the नेशनल औसत थी in the 1920s, और greenhouse gas emissions हैं a भिन्न of the national average, at 7.1 metric tons प्रति person प्रति year, below सैन Francisco, at 11.2 metric tons, and the नेशनल average, at 24.5 मीट्रिक tons.
नई York City accounts लिये तभी 1 % of United राज्य ग्रीनहाउस gas emissions जबकि आवास 2.7 % of its जनसांख्यिकी.
in September 2012, New यॉर्क was नामित the # 1 `` America 's Dirtiest City, '' by a Travel+Leisure readership survey कि रेटेड the environmental quality of 35 prominent शहरों in the संयुक्त राज्य.
अटलांटा (, stressed, locally ) is the capital of और the most populous city in the U.S. राज्य of Georgia, साथ an अनुमानित 2011 population of 432,427.
अटलांटा is the सांस्कृतिक और आर्थिक बीच of the Atlanta metropolitan area, घर to 5,457,831 people and the ninth largest महानगर क्षेत्रफल in the संयुक्त राज्य.
अटलांटा is the काउंटी सीट of fulton County, और a छोटी portion of the नगर extends eastward into DeKalb काउंटी.
अटलांटा was स्थापित in 1837 at the चौराहे of two रेलरोड लाइनों, and the city rose इससे the ashes of the सिविल युद्ध to become a national center of commerce.
in the दशकों following the सिविल Rights Movement, दौरान जिससे the नगर अर्जित a प्रतिष्ठा as `` too busy to नफ़रत '' for the प्रगतिशील views of इसके citizens और leaders, अटलांटा attained अंतरराष्ट्रीय prominence.
अटलांटा is the primary परिवहन hub of the Southeastern United States, via highway, railroad, and एयर, साथ hartsfield–jackson अटलांटा International Airport होने the world 's व्यस्ततम विमानक्षेत्र चूंकि 1998.
Atlanta is considered an `` अल्फा ( - ) संसार city, '' and, साथ a gross domestic product of us $ 270 billion, Atlanta’s economy बाँधने 15th among world cities और sixth in the स्वदेश.
हालांकि Atlanta’s economy is considered diverse, dominant sectors include लोजिस्टिक्स, professional और business services, मीडिया परिचालन, government administration, और उच्चतर शिक्षा.
Topographically, Atlanta is चिह्नित by rolling hills and dense tree coverage.
Revitalization of Atlanta 's पड़ोस, initially spurred by the 1996 Olympics, रै intensified in the 21st century, altering the नगर 's जनसांख्यिकी, politics, और culture.
A 1947 propaganda कॉमिक किताब published by the Catechetical गिल्ड Educational समाज raising the specter of a कम्युनिस्ट कब्ज़ा
McCarthyism is the practice of making accusations of disloyalty, subversion, or देशद्रोह बगैर उचित regard लिये evidence.
it भी means `` the practice of बनाना unfair allegations or using unfair investigative तकनीकों, विशेषकर in अनुक्रम to restrict dissent or राजनैतिक आलोचना. ''
the term has its origins in the period in the United राज्य known as the Second रेड scare, स्थायी roughly from 1950 to 1956 और characterized by heightened fears of communist influence on अमरीकी institutions और espionage by सोवियत agents.
originally coined to criticize the anti-communist pursuits of रिपब्लिकन U.S. सीनेटर Joseph McCarthy of विस्कॉन्सिन, `` McCarthyism '' जल्द took on a broader meaning, describing the excesses of similar efforts.
The पद is भी now प्रयुक्त more generally to describe reckless, unsubstantiated accusations, as well as demagogic हमले on the अक्षर or राष्ट्रभक्ति of राजनैतिक adversaries.
दौरान the मैकार्थी era, हज़ारों of Americans were अभियुक्त of being साम्यवादियों or कम्युनिस्ट sympathizers और became the subject of आक्रामक investigations और questioning पहले government or private-industry panels, committees और agencies.
the प्राथमिक targets of such suspicions यहूद सरकारी employees, those in the entertainment industry, शिक्षक and union कार्यकर्ताओं.
Suspicions were प्रायः given credence despite inconclusive or questionable प्रमाण, and the स्तर of threat posed by a person 's रियल or supposed वामपंथी associations or beliefs थी प्रायः greatly अतिरंजित.
Many लोगों suffered घाटा of employment and/or विनाश of their करियर ; कुछ भी suffered imprisonment.
सबसे of ये punishments came about through विचारण verdicts बाद विकल, कानून कि होता be घोषित unconstitutional, dismissals for कारण बाद declared illegal or actionable, or extra-legal प्रक्रियाओं that would आइये into general disrepute.
the सबसे famous examples of mccarthyism include the भाषणों, investigations, and hearings of सीनेटर मैकार्थी himself ; the हॉलीवुड blacklist, associated साथ hearings conducted by the हाउस un-american क्रियाएँ कमेटी ( huac ) ; and the various anti-communist activities of the संघीय Bureau of Investigation ( एफबीआई ) under Director J. Edgar हूवर.
mccarthyism was a फैली सोशल और सांस्कृतिक phenomenon that affected all levels of समाज और थी the सोर्स of a great सौदे of बहस and conflict in the संयुक्त States.
Napoleon is a fictional अक्षर और the प्रमुख antagonist in George ऑरवेल 's Animal फार्म.
While he is at पहला a common farm pig, he gets rid of स्नोबॉल, another pig which साझा the शक्ति.
he then takes advantage of the animals ' uprising against their मास्टर्स to eventually become the tyrannical `` अध्यक्ष of एनिमल Farm, '' जिससे he turns into a dictatorship.
वरुण logo
the वरुण कनाडा project is the world’s पहला regional-scale underwater ocean observatory that plugs सीधे into the अंतरजाल.
चूंकि दिसम्बर 2009, it has अनुमत people to `` surf '' the seafloor जबकि ocean वैज्ञानिकों run deep-water प्रयोग from labs और विश्वविद्यालयों around the संसार.
साथ with इसके सिस्टर project, शुक्र, वरुण offers a अद्वितीय दृष्टिकोण to ocean science.
traditionally, समंदर वैज्ञानिकों have relied on infrequent जलयान क्रूज़ or space-based satellites to carry out उनके research, जबकि the NEPTUNE प्रोजेक्ट उपयोग a remotely संचालित crawler.
The coronet was a full-size car इससे चकमा in the 1950s, initially the प्रभाग 's highest trim लकीर but, starting in 1955, the lowest trim लकीर.
in the 1960s, the नाम was transferred to Dodge 's mid-size entry.
ARM9 is an भुजा architecture 32-bit risc cpu परिवार.
Commonwealth is a परंपरागत English term लिये a राजनैतिक जातियाँ founded लिये the आम शुभ.
Historically, it रै sometimes महरूम synonymous with `` गणतंत्र ``.
More recently it has been used लिये fraternal associations of some sovereign nations.
सबसे notably, the राष्ट्रमंडल of राष्ट्र, an संघ primarily of former सदस्यों of the British Empire, is प्रायः referred to as simply `` the Commonwealth ''.
the सितंबर 11 हमले ( also referred to as September 11, September 11th, or 9/11 ) यहूद a श्रेणी of चार coordinated आतंकवादी हमले शुभारम्भ by the इस्लामी terrorist group al-qaeda upon the संयुक्त States in New यॉर्क नगर and the Washington, D.C. area on September 11, 2001.
चार यात्री airliners यहूद hijacked by 19 al-qaeda terrorists so they could be flown into buildings in आत्महत्या हमले.
दो of those planes, अमरीकी एयरलाइंस उड़ान 11 और संयुक्त Airlines उड़ान 175, यहूद crashed into the North और South towers, क्रमशः, of the संसार Trade Center complex in नई York City.
भीतर two hours, दोनो मीनारें collapsed साथ debris और the resulting fires causing आंशिक or complete collapse of सब other इमारतें in the wtc complex, as well as major क्षति to ten other large surrounding structures.
a तीसरा प्लेन, अमरीकी एयरलाइंस Flight 77, was crashed into the प्रस्तुतीकरण ( the मुख्यालय of the संयुक्त States Department of रक्षा ), अग्रणी to a partial पतन in इसके western side.
The fourth प्लेन, United एयरलाइंस Flight 93, थी targeted at the संयुक्त राज्य Capitol in वॉशिंगटन, d.C., लकिन crashed into a फ़ील्ड निकट shanksville, Pennsylvania, बाद its यात्री आजमाया to overcome the hijackers.
In total, लगभग 3,000 लोगों died in the attacks, सहित the 227 civilians और 19 hijackers सवार the four planes.
suspicion quickly fell on al-Qaeda.
हालांकि the group 's नेता, ओसामा bin Laden, initially denied any भागीदारी, in 2004 he claimed जिम्मेदारी for the attacks.
Al-Qaeda और bin लादेन cited U.S. support of इसराईल, the उपस्थिति of U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia, और sanctions against Iraq as motives for the हमले.
The United States responded to the attacks by शुभारंभ the War on Terror and invading Afghanistan to depose the Taliban, जिससे had harbored al-qaeda.
Many देशों strengthened their anti-terrorism विधान and विस्तारित law enforcement शक्तियां.
Having evaded कैप्चर for years, bin Laden थी located और मारे by u.S. forces in May 2011.
The destruction of the Twin Towers and अन्य गुण caused गंभीर damage to the अर्थव्यवस्था of Lower मैनहटन and had a significant effect on वैश्विक markets.
क्लीनअप of the World व्यापार बीच site was समाप्त in may 2002, और the Pentagon थी repaired within a year.
Numerous memorials have महरूम constructed, including the National September 11 Memorial & संग्रहालय in New यॉर्क, the Pentagon Memorial, and the Flight 93 National Memorial in पेन्सिलवेनिया.
After a lengthy विलंब, the One संसार Trade Center is अपेक्षित to be completed at मैदान Zero in नई यॉर्क नगर in 2013.
crater Lake National Park is a United States National पार्क स्तिथ in दक्षिणी Oregon.
स्थापित in 1902, crater झील National Park is the पांचवां oldest national park in the संयुक्त राज्य and the तभी एक in the state of Oregon.
The पार्क encompasses the caldera of crater झील, a remnant of a नष्ट ज्वालामुखी, Mount mazama, and the surrounding hills और forests.
The झील is deep at its deepest पाइंट, जिससे makes it the deepest झील in the United राज्य, the दूसरी deepest in North अमेरिका and the नवीं deepest in the world.
crater Lake is प्रायः referred to as the seventh deepest झील in the संसार, लकिन this पूर्व listing excludes the approximately depth of subglacial Lake वोस्तोक in अंटार्कटिक, which resides अंतर्गत nearly of बर्फ, और the recent report of a maximum गहराई लिये Lake o'higgins /san मार्टिन, located on the border of Chile और अर्जेंटीना.
however, जब comparing its average गहराई of to the average depth of अन्य गहन lakes, crater झील becomes the deepest in the पश्चिमी गोलार्ध और the third deepest in the world.
the impressive average depth of this volcanic झील is due to the nearly सममित deep caldera formed 7,700 years ago दौरान the violent climactic eruptions और subsequent collapse of Mount Mazama और the relatively moist climate कि is typical of the crest of the cascade दायरा.
The caldera रिम सीमाएँ in उन्नयन from.
The संयुक्त राज्य geological Survey benchmarked elevation of the lake surface itself is.
This National Park encompasses.
crater Lake रै no स्ट्रीम बहती into or out of it.
सब water कि enters the झील is आखिरकार खोया from evaporation or subsurface seepage.
the झील 's water commonly रै a striking ब्लू hue, और the lake is re-filled entirely इससे सीधा वर्षण in the रूप of हिम और बरसात.
the परम् Court of the United राज्य is the उच्चतम अदालत in the United States.
it has ultimate ( और largely discretionary ) appellate jurisdiction over all federal courts और over राज्य अदालत मामले involving issues of federal law, and असली क्षेत्राधिकार over a small range of cases.
the Court, जिससे meets in the United States Supreme Court भवन in Washington, D.C., consists of a मुख्य इंसाफ और eight associate justices who are nominated by the अध्यक्ष और confirmed by the United राज्य Senate.
एकबार appointed, justices have जीवन tenure unless वे resign, retire, or are removed after महाभियोग.
conroe is the सीट of मोंटगोमरी काउंटी और जलप्रपात भीतर the महानगर area.
It is स्तिथ परिचय north of ह्यूस्टन.
As of July 2011, the नगर population थी 58,973, up from 36,811 in 2000.
The किताब of mormon is a sacred टेक्स्ट of the latter दिन Saint movement, which adherents believe contains कृतियाँ of प्राचीन नबियों जो lived on the American continent इससे लगभग 2200 BC to ad 421.
It was पहला published in March 1830 by Joseph स्मिथ as the किताब of mormon : an खाता Written by the Hand of Mormon upon प्लेटों लिया from the प्लेटों of nephi.
According to Smith 's account, and भी according to the book 's narrative, the Book of mormon was originally लिखा in otherwise अनजान वर्ण referred to as `` reformed मिश्र `` engraved on golden प्लेटों.
स्मिथ claimed that the पिछला नबी to योगदान to the book, a man named Moroni, दफ्न it in a हिल in present-day New यॉर्क and then लौटे to earth in 1827 as an angel, revealing the स्थान of the book to Smith और instructing उसे to अनुवाद और disseminate it as प्रमाण of the बहाली of Christ 's सच्चा church in the latter days.
The किताब of mormon रै a क्रमांक of असली और distinctive doctrinal चर्चाएँ on subjects ऐसे as the fall of Adam and संध्या, the nature of the Atonement, eschatology, मोचन from शारीरिक और spiritual death, और the organization of the latter-day गिरिजाघर.
the pivotal इवेंट of the book is an appearance of Jesus Christ to the Americas shortly बाद उसके क़यामत.
The Book of Mormon is the earliest of the unique writings of the Latter Day संत movement, the denominations of जिससे typically लिहाज़ the text not only as scripture but भी as a historical record of God 's dealings with the प्राचीन inhabitants of the americas.
The Book of mormon is divided into smaller किताबे, titled after the individuals नामित as primary authors और, in सबसे संस्करण, विभाजित into अध्याय और आयतें.
it is लिखा in अंग्रेज़ी, very समान to the जल्दी आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी linguistic स्टाइल of the King जेम्स संस्करण of the Bible, और रै since been fully or partially अनूदित into 108 भाषाएं.
an enlisted रैंक ( also ज्ञात as an enlisted ग्रेड or आयोजिक rate ) is, in most militaries, any रैंक below कि of a commissioned अधिकारी or warrant अधिकारी.
The पद can also be समावेशी of non-commissioned अधिकारियों.
In सबसे मामले, enlisted सेवा कर्मियों perform कार्य specific to उनके own occupational specialty, as opposed to the अधिक generalized कमांड responsibilities of commissioned अधिकारियों.
`` What a Wonderful संसार '' is a song लिखा by Bob thiele ( as `` जार्ज डगलस '' ) और George दाउद Weiss.
It थी first अंकित by लुई आर्मस्ट्रांग और released as a सिंगल in 1967.
thiele and वेइस were both prominent in the music संसार ( thiele as a producer and वेइस as a composer/performer ).
Armstrong 's recording थी inducted in the ग्रैमी हॉल of Fame in 1999.
the publishing लिये इस song is controlled by Memory Lane म्यूज़िक Group, Carlin म्यूज़िक corp., and Bug म्यूज़िक, inc.
1908 poster विज्ञापन gaumont 's sound films.
the Chronomégaphone, designed लिये विशाल हॉल, employed compressed एयर to amplify the अंकित ध्वनि.
A sound फिल्मी is a motion picture with synchronized ध्वनि, or sound technologically coupled to image, as opposed to a silent film.
the पहला ज्ञात public प्रदर्शनी of projected sound films took प्लेस in पेरिस in 1900, but decades would pass पहले ध्वनि motion तस्वीरें were बना commercially practical.
विश्वसनीय तुल्यकालन थी मुश्किल to achieve साथ the जल्दी sound-on-disc प्रणालियों, और प्रवर्धन and रिकॉर्डिंग विशेषता were also अपर्याप्त.
नवप्रवर्तनों in sound-on-film led to the पहला वाणिज्यिक screening of short motion pictures using the प्रौद्योगिकी, which took प्लेस in 1923.
The primary कदम in the commercialization of sound सिनेमा were लिया in the mid- to लेट 1920s.
At first, the sound films incorporating synchronized dialogue—known as `` talking pictures '', or `` talkies '' —were exclusively शॉर्ट्स ; the earliest feature-length फिल्मों with recorded sound शामिल तभी म्यूज़िक और effects.
the पहला विशेषता फिल्मी originally प्रस्तुत as a talkie थी the जैज़ सिंगर, released in अक्तूबर 1927.
A प्रमुख hit, it थी made with Vitaphone, the leading ब्रांड of sound-on-disc प्रौद्योगिकी.
Sound-on-film, however, would soon become the मानक लिये talking pictures.
by the early 1930s, the talkies यहूद a वैश्विक phenomenon.
In the संयुक्त States, वे helped सुरक्षित Hollywood 's स्थिति as one of the world 's सबसे शक्तिशाली cultural/commercial प्रणालियों ( देखिए सिनेमा of the संयुक्त राज्य ).
In यूरोपीय ( और, to a lesser degree, elsewhere ) the new विकास was treated साथ suspicion by many filmmakers और आलोचकों, who चिंतित कि a फ़ोकस on dialogue would subvert the अद्वितीय aesthetic virtues of soundless सिनेमा.
In जापानी, जहाँ the लोकप्रिय फिल्मी tradition एकीकृत मूक फिल्म and live vocal performance, talking तस्वीरें यहूद slow to take root.
In इण्डिया, ध्वनि was the transformative element that led to the रैपिड expansion of the nation 's film industry—the सबसे उत्पादक such उद्योग in the world since the early 1960s.
African लोगों are natives or inhabitants of Africa और people of African descent.
The ऑस्ट्रेलियाई रिकॉर्डिंग Industry Association म्यूज़िक Awards ( commonly ज्ञात as ARIA म्यूज़िक Awards or ARIA पुरस्कार ) is an सालाना श्रेणी of पुरस्कार nights celebrating the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई music उद्योग, put on by the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई रिकॉर्डिंग Industry Association ( aria ).
the event रै been आयोजित annually since 1987 और encompasses the सामान्य genre-specific and लोकप्रिय awards ( ये are कया is usually होने referred to as `` the aria पुरस्कार '' ) as well as Fine कला Awards and Artisan पुरस्कार ( held separately इससे 2004 ), आजीवन उपलब्धि Awards and ARIA Hall of कीर्ति – आयोजित separately इससे 2005 to 2010 लकिन लौटे to the सामान्य ceremony in 2011.
लिये 2010, aria introduced पब्लिक voted पुरस्कार लिये the first समय.
Winning, or even being मनोनीत लिये, an aria पुरस्कार results in a lot of मीडिया attention on an artist, and usually increases रिकॉर्डिंग sales several-fold – in 2005, लिये उदाहरण, बाद Ben Lee जीती तीन awards, उसके एल्बम जाग Is the नई नींद कूद from No. 31 to no. 5 in the aria चार्ट, इसके उच्चतम position.
For-profit education ( also ज्ञात as the education services industry or proprietary शिक्षा ) refers to शैक्षणिक institutions operated by private, लाभ -seeking businesses.
There हैं तीन प्रकार of for-profit स्कूलों.
एक type is known as an शैक्षणिक management organization ( भावनाएं ), और ये are प्राथमिक और द्वितीयक शैक्षणिक institutions.
EMOs कार्य साथ school जिले or चार्टर schools, using पब्लिक funds to वित्त operations.
The बहुमत of for-profit स्कूलों in the k–12 सेक्टर in America फलन as emos, and have grown in क्रमांक in the mid-2000s.
The other major श्रेणी of for-profit स्कूलों हैं post-secondary institutions which operate as व्यवसायों, receiving शुल्क इससे प्रत्येक student वे enroll.
A तीसरा type of for-profit schools, जिससे is less prevalent in the संयुक्त राज्य, हैं K–12 schools which operate as businesses.
emos फलन differently इससे charter schools निर्मित in order to carry आउट a particular शिक्षण pedagogy ; सबसे charter schools are mission-oriented, while EMOs and अन्य for-profit संस्थानों are market-oriented.
जबकि समर्थक argue that the profit motive encourages efficiency, इस व्यवस्था has also drawn विवाद और criticism.
Kevin कैरी, director of the education policy कार्यक्रम of the New American न्यास कहा in a 2010 कालम in the वृत्तान्त of Higher Education that `` for-profits exist in विशाल भाग to फिक्स शैक्षणिक मार्केट failures left by traditional institutions, और they लाभ by सेवारत विद्यार्थी that पब्लिक and private nonprofit institutions too प्रायः ignore. ''
he also noted that `` There 's no शक कि the worst for-profits are ruthlessly exploiting the commodified कॉलेज उपाधि.
लकिन they did n't commodify it in the first प्लेस. ''
Amendment XXII in the National अभिलेख
the twenty-second Amendment of the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान सेट a term limit लिये चुनाव to the दफ्तर of अध्यक्ष of the United States.
कॉंग्रेस passed the amendment on March 21, 1947.
it थी ratified by the requisite क्रमांक of states on फ़रवरी 27, 1951.
इस is an एपीसोड मार्गदर्शिका for the दुश्मनी series bobobo-bo Bo-bobo.
This list encompasses every एपीसोड, शुरूआत साथ the असली Japanese-language title as they aired on tv Asahi, followed by the title used in the English उतावले version airing in the संयुक्त States on Cartoon Network.
A छोटी सारांश होगा follow, introducing the episode and referring to कुछ of the ढकोसला, लकिन not giving the complete summaries to the episodes.
All names और some of the सन्दर्भ will be the ones used from the English-language संस्करण to avoid confusion.
Japanese names may be प्रस्तुत बाद the डब नाम in parentheses.
इस आलेख is परिचय the public पार्क in नई यॉर्क नगर.
लिये other उपयोग, देखिए Central Park ( disambiguation ).
Central Park is a पब्लिक पार्क at the center of Manhattan in New यॉर्क नगर.
the पार्क initially opened in 1857, on of city-owned जमीन ( it is 843 एकड़ आज ).
in 1858, फ्रेडरिक विधि olmsted और Calvert vaux जीती a डिज़ाइन competition to improve and expand the park साथ a plan they हकदार the Greensward योजना.
Construction began the same year, जारी during the अमरीकी Civil War, and थी समाप्त in 1873.
सेंट्रल पार्क is the सबसे visited शहरी park in the संयुक्त States.
Designated a National ऐतिहासिक लैंडमार्क in 1962, the park is currently प्रबंधित by the Central पार्क conservancy अंतर्गत contract with the city सरकारी.
the Conservancy is a non-profit संगठन कि contributes 83.5 % of सेंट्रल Park 's $ 37.5 लाख annual budget, और employs 80.7 % of the पार्क 's मेंटेनेंस staff.
tracfone बेतार, inc. is a प्रीपेड बेतार सेवा provider operating in the संयुक्त राज्य including Puerto रीको and the us Virgin Islands and is a subsidiary of मैक्सिको 's largest telecommunications provider, América Móvil.
As a Mobile Virtual संजाल ऑपरेटर ( mvno ), tracfone बेतार holds अनेक समझौतों साथ the us largest wireless दूरसंचार companies to utilize उनके networks to provide सेवा सहित those of verizon, at & t, Sprint, और T-Mobile.
tracfone बेतार offers इसके wireless उत्पाद अंतर्गत अनेक ब्रांड्स जिससे प्रत्येक also offer distinctive service plans, the brands शामिल tracfone, NET10 बेतार, Straight बात, safelink Wireless, telcel américa and Simple Mobile.
A grab dredge
dredging is an खुदाई activity or operation प्रायः carried out at least partly भाटे, in उथले समंदर or fresh जल क्षेत्रों साथ the purpose of महफ़िल up नीचे sediments और disposing of them at a different location.
This technique is प्रायः used to keep जलमार्गों navigable.
It is भी used as a रास्ता to replenish बालू on कुछ public समुद्रतट, where बालू रै been lost because of coastal erosion.
dredging is भी प्रयुक्त as a technique लिये fishing for निश्चित species of खाद्य clams and crabs, see फ़िशिंग dredge.
a dredger ( or “dredge” as is the general उपयोग in the americas ) is any यंत्र, machine, or vessel that is प्रयुक्त to excavate और हटाएँ material इससे the bottom of a body of water.
लिये example, a scoop attached to the end of a रस्सी or ध्रुव by which a man can चित्रण sediments up इससे the नीचे of a तालाब is a dredger.
विकासशील इस विचार further, a motorized crane equipped साथ a खीचें बाल्टी or clamshell ( grabber ) कि is प्रयुक्त to scoop सामग्री from the bottom of a देह of जल is also a dredger.
The क्रेन could be located on the बैंको, or शायद mounted on a barge.
if the crane is आरोहित on a barge, the संपूर्ण vessel is referred to as a dredger.
the प्रक्रम of dredging creates spoils ( excess सामग्री ), जिससे हैं carried away इससे the dredged area.
dredging can उपज materials लिये land reclamation or other purposes ( प्रायः construction-related ), और रै also historically played a significant भूमिका in सुनहरा खनन.
dredging can create disturbance in जलीय ecosystems, often साथ प्रतिकूल impacts.
Cleveland Volcano in the aleutian आइलैंड्स of अलास्का photographed इससे the International Space स्टेशन, may 2006.
राख plumes reached a height of 19 km दौरान the climactic eruption at Mount pinatubo, फिलीपीन in 1991.
A ज्वालामुखी is an खोलने, or rupture, in a ग्रह 's सतह or क्रस्ट, which allows hot मैग्मा, volcanic ash and गैसों to escape from the मैग्मा chamber below the सतह.
ज्वालामुखी हैं generally found where tectonic plates हैं diverging or converging.
a mid-oceanic ridge, लिये example the mid-atlantic लकीरें, has उदाहरण of volcanoes caused by अपसारी tectonic plates pulling apart ; the प्रशांत Ring of Fire has examples of volcanoes caused by convergent tectonic प्लेटों coming साथ.
by contrast, volcanoes are usually नहीं निर्मित जहाँ दो tectonic प्लेटों slide past एक another.
ज्वालामुखी can भी रूप where there is stretching और thinning of the धरती 's crust in the interiors of plates, e.g., in the ईस्ट African Rift, the कुएं gray-clearwater volcanic field and the रिओ Grande Rift in North अमेरिका.
This type of volcanism जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the umbrella of `` Plate परिकल्पना '' volcanism.
volcanism away from थाली सीमाएँ has भी been explained as mantle plumes.
ये so-called `` हॉटस्पॉट ``, लिये example हवाई, are postulated to उठता from upwelling diapirs with magma इससे the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km गहन in the धरती.
Erupting ज्वालामुखी can पोज़ many जोखिमों, नहीं only in the immediate vicinity of the eruption.
Volcanic ash can be a threat to वायुयान, in particular those with jet इंजन जहाँ ash अणु can be melted by the ऊँची ऑपरेटिंग temperature.
Large eruptions can affect temperature as राख और droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the सूर्य और कूल the धरती 's lower माहौल or troposphere ; however, they also absorb ऊष्मा radiated up from the Earth, thereby warming the stratosphere.
historically, so-called volcanic winters have caused catastrophic famines.
बेनेडिक्ट अर्नाल्ड ( जून 14, 1801 ) was a सामान्य दौरान the American क्रांतिकारी युद्ध who originally fought for the American महाद्वीपीय फौज लकिन defected to the British फौज.
जबकि a सामान्य on the अमरीकी पक्ष, he obtained command of the फोर्ट at West पाइंट, New York, and नियोजित to surrender it to the अंग्रेजों शक्तियां.
After the योजना was उजागर in September 1780, he थी commissioned into the अंग्रेजों फौज as a brigadier सामान्य.
Born in कनेक्टिकट, Arnold थी a merchant ऑपरेटिंग ships on the अटलांटिक समंदर when the war broke out in 1775.
बाद joining the growing फौज outside Boston, he विशिष्ट खुद through acts of intelligence and वीरता.
उसके actions included the कैप्चर of फोर्ट ticonderoga in 1775, defensive and delaying tactics despite losing the Battle of Valcour Island on Lake Champlain in 1776, the बैटल of Ridgefield, कनेक्टिकट ( बाद which he was प्रचारित to प्रमुख general ), परिचालन in relief of the Siege of फोर्ट stanwix, और कुंजी क्रियाएँ दौरान the pivotal लड़ाइयों of साराटोगा in 1777, in जिससे he suffered leg injuries कि ended उसके कॉम्बैट career लिये अनेक सालो.
despite Arnold 's successes, he थी passed over लिये प्रमोशन by the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस while other अधिकारियों claimed credit for कुछ of उसके accomplishments.
Adversaries in सैन्य and राजनैतिक circles brought आरोप of भ्रष्टाचार or other malfeasance, लकिन सबसे often he was acquitted in औपचारिक inquiries.
कॉंग्रेस investigated his खाते और found he थी ऋणी to कॉंग्रेस बाद spending much of his अपना money on the युद्ध प्रयत्न.
कुंठित and bitter, अर्नाल्ड decided to change sides in 1779, और opened secret negotiations साथ the British.
in जुलाई 1780, he was offered, continued to pursue और थी awarded कमांड of West पाइंट.
अर्नाल्ड 's योजना to आत्मसमर्पण the fort to the अंग्रेजों थी उजागर जब American forces captured अंग्रेजों प्रमुख John André carrying papers that नाज़िल the प्लाट.
upon सीखना of André 's capture, अर्नाल्ड fled bas the हडसन River to the British sloop-of-war Vulture, narrowly बचने capture by the forces of जार्ज Washington, who था been alerted to the plot.
Arnold प्राप्त a commission as a brigadier general in the अंग्रेजों Army, an annual pension of £360, और a lump योग of over £6,000.
He led अंग्रेजों शक्तियां on raids in वर्जिनिया, और विरूद्ध नई लंदन और Groton, Connecticut, before the war effectively ended साथ the अमरीकी विजय at Yorktown.
in the winter of 1782, अर्नाल्ड moved to लंदन with उसके second wife, Margaret `` पैगी '' Shippen अर्नाल्ड.
He थी खूब received by King जार्ज III और the Tories but खीझ upon by the whigs.
In 1787, he लौटे to the merchant कारोबार साथ his बेटे Richard और हेनरी in संत John, New Brunswick.
he returned to London to settle permanently in 1791, where he died टेन सालो later.
क्युकी of the रास्ता he changed पहलू, उसके नाम quickly became a in the United States लिये treason or betrayal.
His conflicting legacy is recalled in the अस्पष्ट nature of कुछ of the memorials that have been placed in उसके honor.
कर्टिस Montague Schilling ( born नवम्बर 14, 1966 ) is a former American Major League बेसबॉल right-handed पिचर और Video खेल डेवलपर.
He helped सीसे the फिलाडेल्फिया फ़िलीज़ to the World Series in और जीती संसार श्रेणी championships in with the एरिज़ोना डाइमन्डबैक्स and in and साथ the Boston Red Sox.
schilling रिटायर्ड साथ a करियर postseason record of 11–2.
उसके.846 postseason winning प्रतिशत is a major-league रिकार्ड among pitchers साथ at least 10 निर्णय.
After retiring, he founded Green दानव खेल जिससे थी renamed 38 Studios.
The company released kingdoms of Amalur : हिसाब in फ़रवरी 2012, लकिन बस तीन months बाद, Schilling रखी off उसके entire स्टाफ amid severe वित्तीय troubles कि resulted in the कम्पनी missing payroll the पिछला सप्ताह.
Star युद्धों is an American epic स्पेस opera मताधिकार केन्द्रित on a फिल्मी श्रेणी created by जार्ज Lucas.
the film series has spawned a media मताधिकार बाहर the फिल्मी श्रेणी called the विस्तारित Universe including किताबे, टेलीविज़न series, computer and वीडियो games, and comic books.
These supplements to the फिल्मी trilogies have resulted in significant विकास of the श्रेणी ' fictional ब्रह्मांड.
ये मीडिया kept the मताधिकार active in the अंतरिम between the film trilogies.
The मताधिकार portrays a आकाशगंगा that is described as far, दूर away in the दूर past.
it commonly portrays जेडी as a प्रतिनिधित्व of शुभ, in विरोध साथ the Sith, उनके दुष्ट counterpart.
Their weapon of चुनाव, the lightsaber, is commonly पहचाना in popular culture.
The fictional universe also contains अनेक विषयवस्तु, विशेषकर प्रभाव of philosophy and धर्म.
the पहला फिल्मी in the श्रेणी थी originally released on may 25, 1977, अंतर्गत the शीर्षक Star युद्धों, by 20th Century फॉक्स, और became a विश्वव्यापी पॉप संस्कृति घटना, followed by two सिक्वेल, released at three-year intervals.
Sixteen years after the रिलीज of the trilogy 's फाइनल फिल्मी, the पहला in a नई prequel trilogy of films was released.
the तीन प्रीक्वेल films यहूद भी released at three-year intervals, with the final film of the त्रयी released on may 19, 2005.
in October 2012, the Walt डिज़्नी Company acquired लुकासफ़िल्म लिये $ 4.05 अरब and announced that it होता उपज three new films, with the पहला फिल्मी, Star युद्धों Episode सात, planned लिये रिलीज in 2015.
20th Century फॉक्स still retains the distribution rights to the first दो Star युद्धों trilogies, owning स्थाई rights लिये the असली film Episode iv : A नई Hope, जबकि holding the अधिकारों to Episodes i–iii, V and VI until may 2020.
Reactions to the असली त्रयी यहूद ज़्यादातर धनात्मक, with the पिछला फिल्मी being माना the weakest, while the prequel trilogy प्राप्त a अधिक मिश्रित प्रतिक्रिया, with most of the तारीफ़ being for the फाइनल फिल्म, according to most पुनर्विलोकन aggregator वेबसाइटों.
सब six of the प्रमुख films in the series यहूद भी nominated for or won Academy पुरस्कार.
All of the प्रमुख films have महरूम box office सफलताओं, साथ the overall box office आय उत्पन्न by the Star युद्धों films ( सहित the theatrical स्टार युद्धों : The Clone युद्धों ) totalling $ 4.49 billion, making it the third-highest-grossing film series.
the कामयाबी has भी led to अनेक re-releases in थिएटर लिये the श्रेणी.
plateletpheresis ( अधिक accurately पुकारा thrombocytapheresis or thrombapheresis, though ये names हैं rarely used ) is the प्रक्रम of collecting thrombocytes, अधिक commonly पुकारा प्लेटलेट्स, a घटक of blood शामिल in रक्त clotting.
the पद specifically refers to the method of collecting the प्लेटलेट्स, which is performed by a device used in blood donation कि separates the platelets और रिटर्न अन्य portions of the रक्त to the दाता.
Platelet transfusion can be a life-saving procedure in preventing or treating गंभीर जटिलताओं from bleeding और hemorrhage in patients who have विकार manifesting as thrombocytopenia ( कम platelet गिनती ) or platelet dysfunction.
This प्रक्रम may भी be used therapeutically to दावत विकार resulting in extraordinarily high platelet रिश्तो ऐसे as essential thrombocytosis.
in computer नेटवर्किंग, a port is an application-specific or process-specific software construct सेवारत as a संचार endpoint in a कंप्यूटर 's मेजबान ऑपरेटिंग system.
A बंदरगाहों is संबद्ध with an ip address of the मेजबान, as खूब as the प्रकार of protocol used for communication.
The purpose of पोर्ट is to uniquely identify अलग applications or प्रक्रियाओं running on a सिंगल कंप्यूटर and thereby enable them to share a single शारीरिक कनेक्शन to a packet-switched संजाल like the Internet.
the protocols कि primarily use पोर्ट हैं the Transport परत protocols, such as the Transmission कंट्रोल Protocol ( टीसीपी ) and the User datagram प्रोटोकॉल ( यूडीपी ) of the Internet प्रोटोकॉल सुइट.
A port is identified लिये प्रत्येक पता और protocol by a 16-bit number, commonly ज्ञात as the बंदरगाहों क्रमांक.
The बंदरगाहों क्रमांक, added to a कंप्यूटर 's IP पता, completes the गंतव्य पता for a communications सत्र.
That is, data packets हैं routed आरपार the संजाल to a specific गंतव्य IP पता, और तब, upon reaching the destination कंप्यूटर, are further routed to the specific process bound to the destination port क्रमांक.
Note कि it is the संयोजन of ip पता and बंदरगाहों number साथ कि जरूर be globally unique.
Thus, different ip पता or प्रोटोकॉल may use the वही port number for संचार ; e.g., on a given host or interface UDP and TCP may उपयोग the same port number, or on a मेजबान with two अंतरफलक, both पता may be associated साथ a बंदरगाहों having the same number.
Of the thousands of enumerated पोर्ट, परिचय 250 well-known ports are सुरक्षित by convention to identify specific service प्रकार on a मेजबान.
in the client-server मॉडल of application architecture, ports हैं used to provide a multiplexing सेवा on each server-side बंदरगाहों क्रमांक कि संजाल क्लाइंट कनेक्ट to लिये service दीक्षा, बाद which communication can be reestablished on अन्य connection-specific port संख्याएँ.
क्षेत्रफल code 479 is the telephone area code serving तेरह counties in उत्तरपश्चिम Arkansas, सहित the शहरों of Fort स्मिथ, fayetteville, springdale, Rogers and Bentonville : the दूसरी, third, fourth, आठवीं और tenth-largest शहरों in the राज्य, क्रमशः.
It थी निर्मित in 2002 in a विभाजित इससे area code 501.
Area कोड 479 serves Benton, Carroll ( split साथ क्षेत्रफल code 870 ), क्रॉफर्ड, Franklin, जॉनसन, लोगन, मैडिसन, polk, पोप, Scott, Sebastian, Washington and चिल्लाते Counties in अरकंसास.
Arraignment is a formal reading of a criminal चार्जिंग दस्तावेज़ in the presence of the defendant to inform the defendant of the charges विरूद्ध him or her.
In response to arraignment, the अभियुक्त is अपेक्षित to डालें a plea.
स्वीकार्य pleas vary among jurisdictions, but वे generally include `` guilty '', `` नहीं अपराधी '', and the peremptory pleas ( or pleas in bar ) सेटिंग out कारण क्यों a trial can not proceed.
pleas of `` nolo contendere `` ( no प्रतियोगिता ) and the `` Alford दलील `` हैं अनुमत in some circumstances.
In England, Wales, उत्तरी Ireland और ऑस्ट्रेलिया, arraignment is the पहला of eleven चरण in a दण्ड विचारण, and involves the क्लर्क of the अदालत पढना out the indictment.
the प्रतिवादी is asked whether he or वो pleads guilty or नहीं अपराधी to प्रत्येक चार्ज.
in federal न्यायालयों of the United राज्य, arraignment takes प्लेस in दो चरण.
the first is पुकारा the आरंभिक arraignment और must take place भीतर 48 hours of an individual 's गिरफ़्तार, 72 घंटों if the व्यक्तिगत थी arrested on the weekend and नहीं able to go पहले a न्यायधीश until सोमवार.
दौरान इस arraignment the defendant is informed of the स्थगित legal charges और is informed of उसके or उसके सही to retain counsel.
the पीठासीन न्यायधीश भी decides at कया राशि, if कोई, to नियत जमानत.
दौरान the दूसरी arraignment, a post-indictment arraignment or PIA, the प्रतिवादी is allowed to enter a दलील.
Geoffrey Chaucer ( ; c. 1343 – 25 अक्तूबर 1400 ), ज्ञात as the पिता of English literature, is widely माना the महानतम अंग्रेज़ी कवि of the मध्य आयु and थी the first poet to have महरूम buried in कवि 's Corner of Westminster ऐबी.
जबकि he हासिल कीर्ति during his आजीवन as an लेखक, पारस, कीमियागर and astronomer, composing a scientific treatise on the astrolabe लिये उसके ten year-old son Lewis, चासर भी कायम an active करियर in the सिविल सेवा as a नौकरशाह, courtier and diplomat.
among उसके अनेक works, जिससे include The Book of the duchess, the हाउस of कीर्ति, the Legend of Good महिलाओं और troilus और criseyde, he is best known आज लिये the Canterbury किस्से.
चासर is a crucial figure in विकासशील the legitimacy of the देशी, Middle अंग्रेज़ी, at a समय जब the प्रबल literary भाषाएं in इंग्लैण्ड यहूद फ्रेंच और Latin.
The Chicago blizzard of 1979 was a प्रमुख blizzard that प्रभावित उत्तरी इलिनोइस और उत्तरपश्चिम इंडियाना, u.S. on January 13 – January 14, 1979.
of snow गिरी on जनवरी 13 alone, setting a new रिकार्ड for हिम in one calendar day.
by the समाप्त of जनवरी 14, of हिम था fallen.
the ठंडा मौसम और हिमपात throughout the बाकी of January and फ़रवरी resulted in frozen ट्रैक्स throughout the Chicago 'L ' system.
Commuters crowded onto cta बसें, quickly overwhelming क्षमता, resulting in usual बस commutes of 30-45 minutes taking up to अनेक घंटों.
to avoid huge snowdrifts in the streets, the overcrowded बसें यहूद obliged to लो numerous detours, adding additional समय to the भ्रमण.
deployment of plows थी significantly विलम्बित और जब वे आखिरकार appeared they struggled to keep up with the snowfall.
Much of the snow remained unremoved throughout the next 2 महीने, causing जारी पब्लिक पारगमन delays और significant समस्याएं साथ trash collection.
the city 's inadequate जवाब to the blizzard थी blamed primarily on महापौर Michael bilandic, जो had assumed the post बाद the 1976 मौत of रिचर्ड J. Daley.
Newspaper आलेख at the समय blasted bilandic ; Jane Byrne, bilandic 's प्रमुख राजनैतिक प्रतिद्वंद्वी in the Democratic primary ( जो had previously worked with bilandic in the डाले administration और महरूम fired by bilandic when the two could not get along ), capitalized on इस और गई on to defeat Bilandic in the February 27 primary.
the 12-hour clock is a time convention in which the 24 घंटों of the day are विभाजित into two अवधि : a.m. ( इससे the Latin ante meridiem, अर्थ `` पहले midday '' ) and p.m. ( post meridiem, `` बाद midday '' ).
Each period consists of 12 घंटों गिने : 12 ( acting as शून्य ), 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, और 11.
the 12-hour clock was developed over समय इससे the mid-second मिलेनियम bc to the 16th century AD.
Health spending per capita, in $ US ppp-adjusted, with the us और कनाडा compared amongst other first संसार राष्ट्र.
तुलना of the health परवाह प्रणालियों in कनाडा and the संयुक्त States हैं प्रायः बना by government, public health और public नीति विश्लेषकों.
the two देशों had similar स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रणालियों पहले कनाडा reformed its प्रणाली in the 1960s और 1970s.
The United राज्य spends much अधिक धन on स्वास्थ्य care than कनाडा, on both a per-capita आधार और as a percentage of जीडीपी.
in 2006, per-capita spending for स्वास्थ्य care in Canada was US $ 3,678 ; in the U.S., us $ 6,714.
the U.S. खर्च 15.3 % of GDP on health परवाह in that साल ; Canada spent 10.0 %.
In 2006, 70 % of स्वास्थ्य care spending in कनाडा was financed by सरकारी, बनाम 46 % in the United States.
Total government बिता per capita in the U.S. on health परवाह was 23 % higher than कनाडाई government spending, और u.S. सरकारी व्यय on health care थी बस अंतर्गत 83 % of कुल Canadian बिता ( पब्लिक और निजी ) though ये आंकडे do n't take into account जनसांख्यिकी मतभेद.
अध्ययन have come to अलग conclusions about the result of इस disparity in बिता.
A 2007 review of सब studies comparing स्वास्थ्य outcomes in Canada and the us in a Canadian peer-reviewed medical जर्नल मिला that `` health outcomes may be superior in मरीजों cared for in कनाडा versus the United States, लकिन मतभेद हैं not सतत. ''
जीवन प्रत्याशा is longer in कनाडा, और its शिशु mortality rate is निम्नतर than कि of the U.S., but वहीँ is debate परिचय the underlying कल्याणकारी of ये differences.
One commonly cited तुलना, the 2000 संसार Health संगठन 's ratings of `` overall स्वास्थ्य service प्रदर्शन '', जिससे प्रयुक्त a `` कम्पोजिट measure of उपलब्धि in the level of health, the distribution of स्वास्थ्य, the level of responsiveness और fairness of financial योगदान '', क्रमित कनाडा 30th और the US 37th among 191 सदस्य राष्ट्र.
इस study रेटेड the us `` responsiveness '', or विशेषता of service for individuals receiving treatment, as 1st, compared साथ 7th लिये Canada.
While the average जीवन प्रत्याशा लिये Canadians थी 80.34 सालो compared साथ 78.6 years लिये निवासियों of the us, बस comparing the जीवन expectancy of two समूह with अलग racial makeup और अलग obesity दरों is likely नहीं an प्रभावी way of determining which healthcare system is श्रेष्ठ.
the WHO 's study विधि यहूद criticized by some analyses.
Although वहीँ is a measure of सर्वसम्मति that life-expectancy और infant मृत्यु चिह्नित the सबसे reliable तरीके to compare nation-wide health care, assuming the जनसांख्यिकी makeup is similar, a हाल रपट by the Congressional शोध Service carefully summarizes some हाल आंकड़ा and notes the `` difficult research मुद्दे '' facing अंतरराष्ट्रीय comparisons.
Tarantulas comprise a group of प्रायः hairy और very large arachnids belonging to the theraphosidae परिवार of मकड़ियों, of which लगभग 900 species have महरूम identified.
इस आलेख तभी describes सदस्यों of Theraphosidae, हालांकि कुछ other members of the same suborder हैं commonly referred to as `` tarantulas ''.
Most species of tarantulas are नहीं खतरनाक to humans, and कुछ प्रजाति have become लोकप्रिय in the exotic पालतु व्यापार.
the ton is a unit of measure.
it रै a long इतिहास और रै acquired a क्रमांक of meanings और उपयोग over the सालो.
It is used principally as a unit of weight, and as a unit of आवाज़.
It can भी be प्रयुक्त as a measure of उर्जा, for truck वर्गीकरण, or as a colloquial पद.
it is निकला from the tun, the पद applied to a barrel of the largest size.
This could contain a volume between 210 और 256 गैलन ( 800 to 1000 L ), जिससे could तौल around 2,000 pounds ( 900 kg ) and occupy some of space.
in the United Kingdom the ton is defined as ( avoirdupois पाउंड ).
From 1965 the uk embarked upon a programme of metrication and gradually introduced metric units, सहित the tonne ( metric ton ), a non-si metric unit पारिभाषित as 1000 kg.
the uk Weights और उपायों अधिनियम 1985 explicitly excluded from use लिये trade many इकाई and शर्तें, सहित the ton और the पद `` मीट्रिक ton '' for `` टन ''
in the United States और formerly Canada a ton is पारिभाषित to be.
Where confusion is संभावित, the 2240 lb ton is called `` long ton `` and the 2000 lb ton `` छोटी ton `` ; the tonne is विशिष्ट by its spelling, but प्रायः सुनाया the वही as ton, hence the US पद `` metric ton ''.
in the UK the फाइनल `` e '' of `` टन '' can भी be pronounced ( /ˈtʌnɪ/ ), or `` मीट्रिक ton '' when it is जरुरी to make the distinction.
जहाँ accuracy is जरूरी the correct पद must be used, but लिये अनेक purposes this is not जरुरी : the मीट्रिक और long tons differ by only 1.6 %, and the छोटी ton is within 11 % of both.
The ton is the अधिकतम unit of वज़न referred to in colloquial वाक.
the term `` ton '' is also used to refer to a क्रमांक of इकाई of आवाज़, ranging इससे in क्षमता.
it can भी be used as a ईकाई of energy, expressed as an equivalent of कोयले burnt, TNT detonated, or in प्रशीतन, ice melted.
In Britain, ton is प्रयुक्त in कठबोली in several contexts to mean `` 100 ''.
as a cost or a speed, a ton is widely understood to be £100 or 100 mph.
the स्टेनली Cup ( ) is the चैंपियनशिप trophy awarded annually to the National Hockey League ( एनएचएल ) playoff winner बाद the conclusion of the Stanley कप Finals.
Originally commissioned in 1892 as the Dominion Hockey चुनौती कप, the trophy is named लिये Lord स्टेनली of Preston, then- राज्यपाल सामान्य of Canada, जो awarded it to कनाडा 's top-ranking amateur ice हॉकी क्लबों, जिससे the entire स्टेनली family supported, with the बेटे and बेटियां playing और promoting the game.
the पहला कप थी awarded in 1893 to मॉन्ट्रियल hc.
in 1915, the two पेशेवर ice हॉकी organizations, the नेशनल हॉकी Association ( नह ) और the प्रशांत coast Hockey संघ ( pcha ), reached a gentlemen 's agreement in जिससे उनके respective champions होता फेस each other for the Stanley कप.
After a series of लीग मर्जर और folds, the Stanley `` प्रस्तुतीकरण Cup '' was established as the de facto चैंपियनशिप ट्रॉफी of the NHL in 1926 and then the de jure एनएचएल championship पुरस्कार in 1947.
There हैं दरअसल three Stanley Cups : the असली bowl of the `` डोमिनियन हॉकी चुनौती Cup '', the authenticated `` Presentation Cup '', और the `` Replica Cup '' at the Hall of कीर्ति.
the NHL has कायम प्रभावी कंट्रोल over दोनो the ट्रॉफी itself और इसके associated trademarks.
Nevertheless, the एनएचएल does नहीं दरअसल own the trophy, लकिन instead uses it by अनुबंध साथ the two Trustees of the कप.
The NHL has पंजीकृत trademarks associated with the name और likeness of the स्टेनली Cup, हालांकि the लीग 's right to outright अपना trademarks associated साथ a trophy it does not own रै महरूम disputed by कुछ legal विशेषज्ञ.
Unlike the ट्राफियां awarded by the other three major professional sports लीग of उत्तर अमेरिका, a नई Stanley Cup is नहीं बना each साल ; विजेता रखना it until a new champion is crowned.
it is unusual among trophies, in that it has the names of all of the जीतना players, कोच, management, और क्लबों स्टाफ engraved on इसके chalice.
Initially, a new band added प्रत्येक year caused the trophy to grow in आकार, earning the nickname `` stovepipe कप ''.
In 1958 the modern one-piece Cup was designed साथ a five-band barrel जिससे could contain 13 winning teams प्रति band.
to avoid the स्टेनली Cup from growing, जब the bottom बैंड is full, the oldest band is removed और preserved in the Hockey हॉल of Fame, और a new रिक्त बैंड added to the नीचे.
it has महरूम referred to as the Cup, रब Stanley 's Cup, The पावन Grail, or facetiously ( chiefly by sportswriters ) as रब स्टेनली 's Mug.
The Stanley Cup is surrounded by numerous legends and traditions, the oldest of which is the celebratory पीने of champagne out of the cup by the winning team.
the असली कटोरी was बना of चांदी और is 18.5 centimetres ( 7.28 इंच ) in height and 29 सेण्टीमीटर ( 11.42 inches ) in व्यास.
the वर्तमान Stanley कप, topped with a copy of the असली कटोरी, is बना of a चांदी and nickel मिश्रधातु ; it रै a height of 89.54 सेण्टीमीटर ( 35.25 inches ) और weighs 15.5 गामा ( 34.5 lb / 2 st 61⁄2 lb ).
चूंकि the 1914–15 season, the कप रै महरूम जीती a combined 94 times by 18 क्रियाशील एनएचएल teams और पाँच defunct teams.
prior to कि, the चुनौती कप was held by नौ अलग टीमों.
the Montreal canadiens have won the Cup a रिकार्ड 24 टाइम्स और are फिलहाल the last Canadian-based टोली in the NHL to जीत the कप बाद winning it in 1993.
the Stanley कप थी नहीं awarded in 1919 क्युकी of a Spanish flu महामारी, and in 2005, as a consequence of the NHL lockout.
the Pineapple ( ananas comosus ) is a तीव्र plant साथ खाद्य अनेक फल consisting of coalesced berries, and the most economically significant plant in the bromeliaceae family.
Pineapples may be cultivated from a क्राउन cutting of the फल, संभवतः flowering in 20–24 महीने and fruiting in the following six महीने.
अनानास does not ripen significantly post-harvest.
Pineapples हैं खपत fresh, cooked, juiced, and preserved, and are मिला in a चौड़ी सरणी of cuisines.
in addition to consumption, in the फिलीपीन the pineapple 's leaves हैं प्रयुक्त to produce the textile fiber piña - employed as a घटक of वॉल पेपर और furnishings, amongst other उपयोग.
in computer science, an integer is a datum of integral data type, a आंकड़ा प्रकार जिससे represents कुछ परिमित उपसमुच्चय of the गणितीय integers.
अभिन्न आंकड़ा types may be of अलग sizes और may or may not be अनुमत to contain negative मान.
Integers are commonly represented in a कंप्यूटर as a group of शब्दकोष अंक.
The size of the समूहीकरण varies so the set of पूर्णांक आकार उपलब्धियाँ varies between अलग types of कंप्यूटर.
कंप्यूटर हार्डवेयर nearly सदा provides a रास्ता to represent a प्रोसेसर register or मेमोरी address as an पूर्णांक.
the Gordon Dam in Tasmania is a विशाल हाइड्रो सुविधा, with an installed क्षमता of.
Hydroelectricity is the पद referring to electricity उत्पन्न by hydropower ; the उत्पादन of electrical power through the उपयोग of the गुरुत्वाकर्षक फ़ोर्स of गिरना or flowing water.
It is the सबसे widely used form of बेदर्दी उर्जा, accounting for 16 प्रतिशत of global विद्युत पीढी – 3,427 terawatt-hours of विद्युत उत्पादन in 2010, and is अपेक्षित to increase about 3.1 % प्रत्येक year for the अगला 25 years.
hydropower is produced in 150 countries, साथ the Asia-Pacific प्रदेश generating 32 प्रतिशत of global hydropower in 2010.
China is the largest hydroelectricity producer, with 721 terawatt-hours of उत्पादन in 2010, representing around 17 प्रतिशत of domestic electricity use.
There हैं now तीन hydroelectricity plants larger than 10 GW : the तीन Gorges Dam in चीन, itaipu Dam across the Brazil/Paraguay किनारा, और guri बांध in वेनेजुएला.
the cost of hydroelectricity is relatively कम, making it a प्रतिस्पर्धी सोर्स of बेदर्दी विद्युत.
The average cost of electricity from a हाइड्रो संयंत्र larger than 10 megawatts is 3 to 5 U.S. सेंट per kilowatt-hour.
हाइड्रो is भी a flexible source of विद्युत चूंकि plants can be ramped up और bas very quickly to adapt to changing energy मांगे.
however, damming interrupts the प्रवाह of नदियाँ और can harm local ecosystems, और building large dams and टंकी प्रायः involves displacing people and वन्यजीव.
Once a hydroelectric complex is constructed, the प्रोजेक्ट produces no सीधा बर्बाद, and रै a considerably निम्नतर आउटपुट स्तर of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide ( ) than fossil fuel संचालित उर्जा plants.
वाइन boy at a यूनानी symposium
the history of wine spans thousands of years and is closely intertwined साथ the इतिहास of कृषि, भोजन, सभ्यता और humanity itself.
Archaeological evidence suggests कि the earliest known wine production occurred in कया is now the country of Georgia around 7000 bce, with अन्य notable साइट in वृहद Iran दिनाँक 4500 BCE and Armenia 4100 BCE, क्रमशः.
the world 's oldest known winery ( दिनाँक to 3000 BCE ) was खोजा in Areni-1 cave in a mountainous क्षेत्रफल of अर्मेनिया.
URL_http.
Increasingly clear पुरातत्व प्रमाण indicates कि domestication of the grapevine took place दौरान the Early कांस्य आयु in the निकट ईस्ट, सुमेर and मिश्र इससे around the तीसरा मिलेनियम bce.
Evidence of the earliest wine उत्पादन in balkans has been uncovered at archaeological साइट in northern Greece ( मकदूनिया ), दिनाँक to 4500 bc.
These वही sites भी contain remnants of the संसार 's earliest evidence of कुचल grapes.
In मिश्र, wine became a भाग of अंकित history, playing an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in प्राचीन ceremonial जीवन.
Traces of wild वाइन डेटिंग from the second और first सहस्राब्दियों bce have भी been found in China.
Moroccan वाइन kasher लेबल 1930
The Jewish परंपरा और use of kosher wine is dating वापस to biblical times.
the long history of the उपयोग and उत्पादन of wine throughout प्राचीन इसराईल is backed up by archeological evidence.
Within the Jewish diaspora समुदायों सब around the globe, the traditional और धार्मिक उपयोग of कोषेर वाइन जारी to this day.
Wine, linked in myth to Dionysus / Bacchus, was आम in ancient यूनानियों और रोम, and many of आज 's major wine-producing regions of Western यूरोपीय यहूद established साथ Phoenician and, later, रोमन plantations.
winemaking प्रौद्योगिकी improved considerably during the समय of the रोमन साम्राज्य : many grape किस्में and cultivation techniques were known ; the डिज़ाइन of the wine press advanced ; and barrels were developed लिये storing और शिपिंग wine.
rashi, a मध्यकालीन फ्रेंच rabbi और पुकारा the `` father '' of सब commentaries कि followed on the Talmud and the Tanakh, अर्जित his जीना as a vintner.
following the decline of Rome और इसके industrial-scale wine production लिये निर्यात, the Christian गिरिजाघर in मध्यकालीन यूरोपीय also became a कड़ supporter of wine, necessary लिये जश्न of the कैथोलिक Mass. Whereas wine was हराम in medieval Islamic cultures, इसके use in Christian libation was widely tolerated.
Geber और अन्य Muslim chemists pioneered the आसवन of wine for Islamic medicinal और औद्योगिक purposes ऐसे as परफ्यूम.
Wine production gradually increased, with खपत burgeoning from the 15th century onwards.
वाइन production survived the विनाशकारी phylloxera louse of 1887 और eventually स्प्रेड to numerous regions throughout the world.
Districts of वेस्ट बंगाल
the भारतीय state of वेस्ट Bengal borders साथ Nepal, Bhutan, बांग्लादेश and the Indian राज्य of Bihar, झारखण्ड, odisha, असम and Sikkim.
the Himalayas झूठ in the north of the राज्य and the खाड़ी of Bengal is at the south.
in between उन्हें, the river गंगा बहती eastwards and its main distributary, the हुगली नदी, बहती south to reach the खाड़ी of बंगाल.
the Siliguri corridor, जिससे connects North-East इण्डिया साथ बाकी of the India, झूठ in the उत्तर Bengal region of the राज्य.
geographically, West Bengal is विभाजित into a किस्में of regions— दार्जिलिंग हिमालयी hill प्रदेश, Terai and द्वार प्रदेश, उत्तर बंगाल मैदान, Rarh प्रदेश, Western plateau and high lands, coastal मैदान, sunderbans and the गंगा Delta.
in 1947, जब इण्डिया gained स्वतंत्रता, the राज्य of West Bengal was formed साथ 14 जिले, as per विभाजन योजना of the तब बंगाल province of British India.
The former princely राज्य koch Bihar joined as a ज़िला in 1950, और the पूर्व French enclave Chandannagore joined as भाग of the Hooghly district in 1954.
the राज्य पुनर्गठन Act of 1956 led to addition of पुरुलिया ज़िला to the state and to enlargement of West दिनाजपुर ज़िला.
Later, larger districts such as वेस्ट Dinajpur, 24 परगना और मिदनापुर यहूद bifurcated.
वेस्ट बंगाल is अभी विभाजित into nineteen districts under three divisions.
जिले हैं administered by ज़िला magistrates, and divisions हैं administered by Divisional Commissioners.
कोलकाता, the पूंजी of the राज्य, constitutes the Kolkata ज़िला.
Other districts are further divided into administrative units such as subdivisions और blocks, administered by SDO and BDO, क्रमशः.
the पंचायती राज रै a three-tier ढांचा in the state.
the परमाणु unit is पुकारा a Gram पंचायत, which is the Panchayat संगठन लिये a collection of गांवों.
the block-level संगठन are called पंचायत Samiti, और the district-level संगठन are named zilla Parishad.
The Caribbean ( or ; ; ; or more commonly antilles ) is a प्रदेश कि consists of the caribbean समुद्र, इसके आइलैंड्स ( कुछ surrounded by the Caribbean Sea and some bordering both the caribbean समुद्र और the North Atlantic समंदर ), और the surrounding coasts.
the प्रदेश is southeast of the Gulf of Mexico और the North American mainland, ईस्ट of Central America, and उत्तर of South America.
situated largely on the Caribbean Plate, the प्रदेश comprises अधिक than 700 islands, आइलेट, reefs, and cays.
( See the सूची. )
ये आइलैंड्स generally form island arcs कि delineate the eastern और उत्तरी edges of the Caribbean Sea.
The caribbean islands, consisting of the वृहद Antilles on the उत्तर and the Lesser antilles on the दक्षिण और east ( सहित the leeward antilles ), हैं part of the somewhat larger West इंडीज समूहीकरण, जिससे also includes the Lucayan द्वीपसमूह ( comprising the बहामा और turks और caicos Islands ) उत्तर of the वृहद antilles और Caribbean समुद्र.
in a wider भाव, the मेनलैंड countries of बेलीज़ and Guyana – historically and culturally भाग of the British वेस्ट Indies – may be शामिल.
geopolitically, the caribbean islands हैं usually regarded as a subregion of उत्तर America and are organized into 30 territories including sovereign states, overseas departments, और dependencies.
From जनवरी 3, 1958, to May 31, 1962, वहीँ was a short-lived देश पुकारा the Federation of the West इंडीज composed of टेन english-speaking Caribbean territories, सब of which यहूद then UK dependencies.
The वेस्ट इंडीज cricket टोली continues to represent अनेक of those nations.
This is a सूची of the 221 कस्बों and 13 cities in the U.S. state of नई हैम्पशायर.
लिये प्रत्येक town/city, the table lists the county to जिससे it belongs, its तिथि of incorporation, its population according to the 2010 census, इसके रूप of government, और its प्रिंसिपल villages.
शहरों are indicated in boldface.
Cities and towns are treated identically अंतर्गत राज्य law.
Cities हैं just towns जिनकी रूप of government was बदला by a खास अधिनियम of the नई हैम्पशायर legislature.
however, कस्बों फिलहाल are able to बदलें उनके रूप of government by simple voter स्वीकृति of a नई नगरपालिका चार्टर, साथ several of the अधिक populous towns having already done so.
the प्रमुख slave routes in medieval अफ़्रीकी.
This आलेख discusses systems, इतिहास, और effects of slavery भीतर Africa.
See अरब slave trade, अटलांटिक slave trade, maafa, and Slavery in समकालीन Africa for other चर्चाएँ.
`` Slave हस्तांतरण in Africa ''.
Europeans प्रायः did not डालें the आंतरिक regions.
गुलामी in अफ़्रीकी has existed throughout the महाद्वीप for अनेक centuries, और continues in the current दिन.
Systems of servitude और slavery यहूद आम in many parts of the continent, as they यहूद in much of the ancient संसार.
in सबसे अफ़्रीकी समाजों जहाँ गुलामी was प्रचलित, the enslaved people यहूद largely treated as indentured बन्दों और नहीं treated as chattel स्लेव.
When the Arab स्लेव व्यापार and अटलांटिक स्लेव व्यापार began, many of the local स्लेव प्रणालियों changed और began supplying captives लिये slave markets outside of Africa.
Slavery in historical अफ़्रीकी थी practiced in many different फ़ॉर्म and some of these do not clearly अनुरूप the definitions of गुलामी elsewhere in the संसार.
कर्ज़ slavery, enslavement of युद्ध captives, सैन्य गुलामी, and criminal गुलामी यहूद सब practiced in विभिन्न parts of अफ़्रीकी.
Although वहीँ had been some trans-Saharan trade from the आंतरिक of sub-saharan अफ़्रीकी to other regions, slavery थी a छोटी भाग of the आर्थिक life of अनेक societies in अफ़्रीकी जबतक the introduction of transcontinental slave trades ( Arab और अटलांटिक ).
Slave practices यहूद again transformed with European colonization of अफ़्रीकी and the औपचारिक abolition of गुलामी in the जल्दी 1900s.
ब्रेट lorenzo Favre ( born अक्तूबर 10, 1969 ) is a former अमरीकी football quarterback who खर्च the majority of his career साथ the ग्रीन Bay पैकर्स of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League ( NFL ).
he was a 20-year veteran of the एनएफएल, having निभाई quarterback for the अटलांटा Falcons ( 1991 ), ग्रीन खाड़ी Packers ( 1992 – 2007 ), New यॉर्क jets ( 2008 ) और मिनेसोटा Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ).
favre is the तभी quarterback in एनएफएल history to throw लिये over 70,000 गज, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, और over 10,000 pass कोशिशें.
favre प्रारंभ at the quarterback स्थिति for the University of Southern Mississippi लिये चार सालो before being selected in the दूसरी गोलाकार of the 1991 एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट by अटलांटा ( 33rd overall ).
He थी traded to Green Bay on February 10, 1992, for the 19th pick in the 1992 NFL ड्राफ्ट.
Favre became the Packers ' starting क्वार्टरबैक in the fourth game of the 1992 season, stepping in for घायल quarterback डॉन Majkowski, और started प्रत्येक खेल through the 2007 ऋतु.
he was traded to the New यॉर्क jets and प्रारंभ at quarterback लिये the 2008 ऋतु पहले signing with the वाइकिंग्स on अगस्त 18, 2009 as their starting क्वार्टरबैक.
he बना an NFL रिकार्ड 297 consecutive starts ( 321 सहित playoffs ).
he is the only player to जीत the AP Most Valuable Player three लगातार टाइम्स ( 1995–97 ).
He has led teams to आठ division championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), पाँच nfc Championship खेल ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), and दो सुपर Bowl appearances ( Super Bowl xxxi, Super Bowl xxxii ), जीतना एक ( Super Bowl xxxi ).
He holds अनेक एनएफएल रिकॉर्ड, including most career touchdown गुजरता, most career गुजर yards, सबसे करियर pass completions, सबसे career pass कोशिशें, सबसे करियर interceptions thrown, most consecutive starts by a खिलाड़ी, सबसे consecutive starts by a क्वार्टरबैक, most करियर victories as a starting quarterback, सबसे sacked, और most fumbles.
he is also referred to by उसके nickname `` The gunslinger ''.
Salesforce.com Inc. is a global enterprise तन्त्र कम्पनी headquartered in सैन Francisco, California.
Though best ज्ञात for इसके ग्राहक relationship management ( crm ) product, Salesforce रै भी expanded into the `` सोशल एंटरप्राइज़ arena '' through acquisitions.
it is फिलहाल क्रमित the सबसे innovative कम्पनी in अमेरिका by Forbes पत्रिका, as खूब as क्रमांक 27 in सौभाग्य magazine 's 100 बेहतरीन कंपनियाँ to Work For in 2012.
As of अप्रैल 2013, the company is ranked sixth in providing सेवाएं in marketing और ग्राहक service स्वचालन.
It is listed on the New यॉर्क Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the s & P 500 अनुक्रमणिका.
Seahorse is the title given to 54 प्रजाति of समुद्री fish in the genus Hippocampus.
`` हिप्पोकैम्पस '' comes from the प्राचीन यूनानी hippos meaning `` horse '' और kampos meaning `` sea monster ''.
Earth is the third ग्रह from the Sun, and the densest and fifth-largest of the आठ ग्रह in the Solar System.
It is also the largest of the सौर System 's four स्थलीय planets.
It is sometimes referred to as the world or the ब्लू Planet.
Earth formed लगभग 4.54 billion सालो ago, and life appeared on इसके सतह भीतर its पहला billion सालो.
धरती 's जीवमंडल then significantly altered the वायुमंडलीय and other मौलिक शारीरिक conditions, which सक्रिय the अप्रसार of organisms as खूब as the गठन of the ozone layer, जिससे साथ साथ Earth 's magnetic field अवरोधित नुकसानदेह solar विकिरण, और permitted formerly ocean-confined जीवन to move safely to जमीन.
The शारीरिक गुण of the धरती, as खूब as इसके geological history और कक्षा, have अनुमत life to अड़.
Estimates on कैसा much longer the planet will be समर्थ to continue to support जीवन दायरा from, to as long as.
धरती 's lithosphere is विभाजित into अनेक rigid segments, or tectonic plates, that migrate आरपार the सतह over periods of अनेक लाखो of years.
परिचय 71 % of the सतह is covered by नमक water महासागर, with the remainder consisting of महाद्वीपों and आइलैंड्स जिससे together have अनेक lakes और अन्य sources of जल कि contribute to the hydrosphere.
धरती 's poles are ज़्यादातर covered with ice कि is the ठोस बर्फ of the अंटार्कटिक बर्फ sheet और the sea बर्फ that is the polar बर्फ packs.
The planet 's आंतरिक remains क्रियाशील, with a solid iron inner core, a द्रव बाहरी core कि generates the चुम्बकीय field, और a thick परत of relatively ठोस mantle.
Earth gravitationally interacts with other वस्तुएँ in स्पेस, विशेषकर the सूर्य और the चंद्रमा.
During एक orbit around the Sun, the धरती घुमाता about its अपना अक्ष 366.26 टाइम्स, बनाना 365.26 solar दिनों, or एक sidereal year.
the Earth 's अक्ष of रोटेशन is tilted 23.4° away इससे the perpendicular of इसके कक्षीय प्लेन, producing मौसमी variations on the ग्रह 's surface साथ a काल of one तीव्र साल ( 365.24 solar days ).
the चंद्रमा is धरती 's only प्राकृतिक उपग्रह.
It began orbiting the Earth about.
the Moon 's gravitational बातचीत साथ Earth stimulates समंदर tides, stabilizes the axial झुकाव, और gradually slows the planet 's rotation.
The planet is home to millions of species of जीवन, सहित इंसानो.
दोनो the mineral संसाधन of the planet और the products of the biosphere योगदान resources कि हैं प्रयुक्त to support a वैश्विक इंसान जनसांख्यिकी.
These inhabitants are grouped into परिचय 200 independent sovereign राज्य, which interact through diplomacy, सफर, trade, और सैन्य action.
इंसान cultures have developed many views of the ग्रह, including इसके personification as a planetary deity, its आकार as चपटा, इसके position as the बीच of the universe, और in the आधुनिक Gaia Principle, as a single, self-regulating सजीव in इसके own सही.
the Magician इससे the waite-smith tarot, जो is depicted using the वही टूल्स that modern wiccans use.
In the neopagan religion of wicca, a दायरा of जादुई टूल्स हैं प्रयुक्त in अनुष्ठान अभ्यास.
प्रत्येक of these टूल्स रै different उपयोग और एसोसिएशन, and are प्रयुक्त primarily to direct जादुई energies.
They हैं used at an altar, अंदर a magic वृत्त.
In परंपरागत gardnerian Wicca, the टूल्स are प्रायः विभाजित into निजी tools, जिससे हैं for use by, और स्वामित्व by, an व्यक्तिगत wiccan, and आउटटेक tools, प्रयुक्त collectively by the आउटटेक.
इस अभ्यास may derive partly इससे Masonic traditions ( such as the उपयोग of the Square and compasses ), from which Wicca draws कुछ material, और partly इससे the संस्कार of the hermetic Order of the सुनहरी Dawn.
the latter made much use of सामग्री from मध्यकालीन grimoires such as the Key of सुलेमान, which has many illustrations of जादुई tools और instructions for their तैयारी.
ठेठ eukaryotic कोशिका.
Cellular श्वसन is the नियत of the metabolic reactions और प्रक्रियाओं कि लो place in the cells of जीवों to convert biochemical उर्जा इससे nutrients into एडीनोसिन ट्राइफॉस्फेट ( ATP ), and तब release waste उत्पाद.
the reactions involved in श्वसन are catabolic प्रतिक्रियाएँ, जिससे ब्रेक विशाल अणुओं into छोटी ones, releasing उर्जा in the process as weak so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products.
Respiration is एक of the key ways a cell gains useful उर्जा to fuel cellular कार्यकलाप.
Cellular श्वसन is considered an ऊष्माक्षेपी रेडॉक्स reaction.
The overall प्रतिक्रिया is टूटा into many smaller ones जब it occurs in the body, most of जिससे are redox प्रतिक्रियाएँ themselves.
हालांकि technically, cellular respiration is a दहन reaction, it clearly does not resemble एक जब it occurs in a living cell.
This difference is because it occurs in अनेक separate कदम.
While the overall reaction is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया, no सिंगल reaction that comprises it is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया.
Nutrients that are commonly used by एनिमल और संयंत्र कोशिकाएं in श्वसन include sugar, amino acids and fatty acids, और a common oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is आणविक oxygen ( O2 ).
The उर्जा stored in ATP ( इसके तीसरा फास्फेट group is weakly bonded to the rest of the molecule और is cheaply टूटा allowing stronger bonds to form, thereby transferring energy लिये उपयोग by the cell ) can तब be used to ड्राइव प्रक्रियाओं requiring उर्जा, including जैवसंश्लेषण, locomotion or transportation of अणुओं आरपार cell membranes.
A stored-pressure आग extinguisher बना by amerex
a British fire extinguisher साथ id sign, कॉल point और आग action sign
A fire extinguisher, flame extinguisher, or simply an extinguisher, is an active fire protection यंत्र used to extinguish or control छोटी fires, often in आपात परिस्थितियों.
It is not intended for use on an out-of-control आग, such as एक which has पहुँचे the छत, endangers the user ( i.e., no escape रूट, smoke, विस्फोट जोखिम, इत्यादि. ), or otherwise requires the expertise of a fire विभाग.
typically, a fire extinguisher consists of a hand-held बेलनाकार pressure vessel containing an एजेंट which can be discharged to extinguish a आग.
In the संयुक्त States, fire extinguishers, in all buildings अन्य than houses, are generally required to be सर्विस और inspected by a Fire सुरक्षा सेवा company at तनिक annually.
कुछ jurisdictions आवश्यकता more बारंबार सेवा for fire extinguishers.
The servicer places a tag on the extinguisher to indicate the प्रकार of सेवा performed ( सालाना निरीक्षण, recharge, new आग extinguisher ) और जब.
There are दो प्रमुख types of आग extinguishers : भंडारित pressure and cartridge-operated.
In भंडारित दबाव units, the expellant is stored in the वही chamber as the firefighting agent itself.
Depending on the एजेंट used, अलग propellants are प्रयुक्त.
साथ dry chemical extinguishers, नाइट्रोजन is typically प्रयुक्त ; water और झाग extinguishers typically उपयोग एयर.
भंडारित दबाव आग extinguishers are the most common प्रकार.
Cartridge-operated extinguishers contain the expellant gas in a separate कार्ट्रिज कि is punctured prior to निर्वहन, exposing the propellant to the extinguishing एजेंट.
इस प्रकार is नहीं as common, प्रयुक्त primarily in areas such as औद्योगिक सुविधाएं, where वे प्राप्त higher-than-average उपयोग.
वे have the लाभ of simple and संकेत recharge, allowing an operator to निर्वहन the extinguisher, रिचार्ज it, और return to the fire in a reasonable amount of समय.
Unlike stored दबाव प्रकार, these extinguishers उपयोग संपीडित carbon डाइऑक्साइड instead of नाइट्रोजन, although nitrogen कारतूस हैं प्रयुक्त on कम temperature ( -60 रेटेड ) models.
Cartridge संचालित extinguishers are available in dry chemical और शुष्क चूर्ण types in the u.S. and in जल, wetting एजेंट, झाग, शुष्क chemical ( वर्ग एबीसी and b.c. ), और शुष्क चूर्ण ( class D ) types in the बाकी of the world.
Fire extinguishers हैं further विभाजित into हैंडहेल्ड and cart-mounted, also पुकारा wheeled extinguishers.
हैंडहेल्ड extinguishers weigh from 0.5 to 14 kilograms ( 1 to 30 पाउंड ), और are hence, easily पोर्टेबल by हाथ.
Cart-mounted units typically weigh 23+ गामा ( 50+ pounds ).
ये wheeled मॉडल are most commonly मिला at construction साइट, airport runways, heliports, as खूब as docks and marinas.
Native Americans in the संयुक्त States are the स्वदेशी peoples in North America within the boundaries of the present-day महाद्वीपीय संयुक्त राज्य, अलास्का, और the द्वीप राज्य of हवाई.
वे are composed of numerous, distinct Native American जनजातियों और ethnic groups, अनेक of which जीवित as intact political communities.
the terms प्रयुक्त to refer to देशी Americans have महरूम विवादास्पद.
According to a 1995 u.S. Census census_bureau ब्यूरो Census_Bureau नियत of home interviews, सबसे of the respondents with an expressed वरीयता refer to themselves as अमरीकी इंडियंस ( or बस Indians ), और इस term रै महरूम अपनाया by प्रमुख newspapers and कुछ अकादमिक समूह ; however, इस पद करता नहीं typically include Native hawaiians or certain अलास्कन Natives, such as aleut, Yup'ik, or इनुइट peoples.
Since the end of the 15th century, the माइग्रेशन of Europeans to the americas, और उनके importation of africans as स्लेव, has led to सदियां of conflict and adjustment between Old and New संसार societies.
Europeans निर्मित सबसे of the early written ऐतिहासिक रिकार्ड about देशी Americans after the colonists ' आव्रजन to the Americas.
अनेक देशी Americans जिया as hunter-gatherer समाजों और बताई उनके histories by oral traditions.
In अनेक समूह, women carried आउट sophisticated cultivation of numerous किस्में of स्टेपल फसलों : मक्का, सेम और स्क्वैश.
The स्वदेशी cultures यहूद quite अलग from those of the कृषिक, proto-industrial, mostly Christian आप्रवासियों इससे पश्चिमी Eurasia.
अनेक Native cultures यहूद matrilineal ; the people occupied lands for उपयोग of the entire community, for शिकार or agriculture.
europeans at कि time था patriarchal संस्कृतियों and था विकसित अवधारणाओं of individual property अधिकारों साथ respect to जमीन कि were extremely different.
the मतभेद in cultures between the established देशी Americans and अप्रवासी europeans, as खूब as shifting alliances among अलग nations of प्रत्येक culture through the सदियां, caused extensive राजनैतिक tension, ethnic violence and social disruption.
The देशी अमेरिकी suffered ऊँची fatalities from the सम्पर्क with संक्रामक Eurasian diseases, to जिससे वे था no acquired प्रतिरक्षण.
महामारी बाद European सम्पर्क caused the महानतम loss of जीवन लिये indigenous populations.
estimates of the pre-Columbian population of what आज constitutes the U.S. vary significantly, ranging from 1 लाख to 18 लाख.
बाद the colonies revolted विरूद्ध Great Britain and established the United राज्य of America, President George वॉशिंगटन और हेनरी Knox conceived of the विचार of `` civilizing '' Native Americans in तैयारी लिये assimilation as U.S. citizens.
सम्मिलन ( whether voluntary as with the Choctaw, or forced ) became a सतत नीति through अमरीकी administrations.
दौरान the 19th century, the विचारधारा of manifest नियति became अभिन्न to the अमरीकी राष्ट्रवादी movement.
Expansion of european-american populations to the वेस्ट after the अमरीकी क्रान्ति resulted in increasing दबाव on देशी अमरीकी lands, warfare between the groups, और rising tensions.
In 1830, the u.S. Congress passed the भारतीय हटाना अधिनियम, authorizing the सरकारी to relocate Native अमेरिकी इससे उनके homelands भीतर स्थापित राज्य to lands west of the Mississippi River, accommodating European-American विस्तार.
the पहला यूरोपीय अमेरिकी to encounter the western interior जनजातियों यहूद generally fur व्यापारियों और trappers.
There were also जेसुइट missionaries क्रियाशील in the उत्तरी Tier.
As United राज्य विस्तार reached into the अमरीकी वेस्ट, settler and miner प्रवासियों आए into increasing विरोध with the ग्रेट जलाशय, ग्रेट मैदान, and अन्य पश्चिमी जनजातियों.
These were जटिल nomadic संस्कृतियों based on घोड़ा culture और seasonal bison hunting.
वे carried out strong प्रतिरोध to संयुक्त राज्य incursions in the दशकों after the अमरीकी Civil War, in a श्रेणी of भारतीय युद्धों, which यहूद frequent up जबतक the 1890s, लकिन जारी into the 20th सदी.
The transcontinental रेलरोड brought more non-Natives into tribal land in the west.
over time, the U.S. forced a श्रेणी of treaties and land cessions by the जनजातियों, and established reservations लिये them in many पश्चिमी states.
u.S. एजेंटों प्रोत्साहित देशी Americans to अपनाना european-style खेती और similar pursuits, लकिन european-american agricultural technology of the समय थी अपर्याप्त for often शुष्क reservation lands.
in 1924, Native अमेरिकी जो यहूद not already u.S. citizens यहूद granted नागरिकता by Congress.
Contemporary Native अमेरिकी have a unique संबंध with the संयुक्त राज्य because वे may be members of राष्ट्र, tribes, or bands with sovereignty and सन्धि rights.
सेंट्रल America ( ) is the सेंट्रल geographic region of the Americas.
It is the southernmost, isthmian portion of the उत्तर अमरीकी continent, जिससे connects with South America on the southeast.
जब considered भाग of the unified continental model, it is considered a subcontinent.
Central America consists of seven देशों : बेलीज़, Costa रिका, el Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, निकारागुआ, and Panama.
सेंट्रल America is भाग of the Mesoamerican biodiversity हॉटस्पॉट, which extends from उत्तरी ग्वाटेमाला through सेंट्रल पनामा.
it is bordered by मैक्सिको to the north, the Caribbean समुद्र to the ईस्ट, the North Pacific Ocean to the west, and Colombia to the south-east.
सेंट्रल अमेरिका is an area of, or लगभग 0.1 % of the धरती 's surface.
as of 2009, its जनसांख्यिकी थी estimated at 41,739,000.
it has a घनत्व of 77 people per वर्गाकार kilometer.
Scrubs is an अमरीकी चिकित्सा comedy-drama television श्रेणी created by विधेयक Lawrence कि aired from अक्तूबर 2, 2001 to March 17, 2010 on एनबीसी और later ABC.
the श्रेणी फ़ॉलो the जीवनदान of कर्मचारी at the fictional पवित्र Heart शिक्षण हॉस्पिटल.
the title is a play on सर्जिकल scrubs और a पद लिये a low-ranking व्यक्ति क्युकी at the beginning of the श्रेणी, सबसे of the प्रमुख characters were medical interns.
the series सुविधाएँ fast-paced screenplay, slapstick, and surreal vignettes प्रस्तुत mostly as the daydreams of the सेंट्रल character, dr. जॉन `` J.D. ''
डोरियन, who is निभाई by Zach Braff.
अभिनेताओं अभिनीत alongside Braff in the पहला eight सीज़न शामिल Sarah chalke, Donald Faison, neil Flynn, केन Jenkins, John C. mcginley and जुडी रेयेस.
the श्रेणी has also featured अनेक अतिथि दिखावे by फिल्मी actors, ऐसे as Brendan फ्रेज़र, हीथर ग्राहम, और Colin farrell.
in the ninth ऋतु, many new cast members were introduced and the दिखाएँ सेटिंग स्थानांतरित इससे a हॉस्पिटल to a medical स्कूल.
आउट of the असली डाल, तभी braff, faison और McGinley became नियमित डाल सदस्यों, while the others with the एक्सेप्शन of Reyes, made अतिथि appearances.
Braff appeared in six एपीसोड of the ninth ऋतु पहले दूँ.
केरी bishé, Eliza कूप, डेव फ्रेंको और Michael mosley became series regulars साथ bishé बनने the show 's नई narrator.
scrubs premiered on October 2, 2001 on NBC.
The श्रेणी received a Peabody Award in 2006.
दौरान the seventh season, एनबीसी घोषित that it होता not नवीनीकृत the show.
shortly after the seventh ऋतु finale, ABC announced it had उठाई up the eighth season of the श्रेणी, जिससे began January 6, 2009.
The नवीं season premiered on दिसम्बर 1, 2009.
on may 14, 2010, एबीसी announced it had officially canceled scrubs.
an 1817 boulton & वाट beam झोंके इंजन, used in Netherton at the ironworks of M w Grazebrook.
Re-erected on the A38 ( m ) in बर्मिंघम, uk
A steam इंजन is a heat engine that performs mechanical work using भाप as its working fluid.
using खौलते जल to produce mechanical गति goes back परिचय 2,000 years, but early डिवाइस were not practical.
Since the late 1700s भाप engines have become a major सोर्स of mechanical power.
The first अनुप्रयोग were removing water इससे खानों.
in 1781 James Watt patented a भाप engine कि उत्पादित continuous rotative motion.
ये 10 hp इंजन सक्रिय a चौड़ी दायरा of manufacturing machinery to be संचालित.
the इंजन could be sited anywhere that water and coal or wood fuel could be प्राप्त.
by 1883, engines that could provide 10,000 hp had become feasible.
Steam engines could भी be लागू to वाहनों ऐसे as कर्षण engines and the railway locomotives जिससे हैं commonly just called steam engines बाहर अमेरिका.
the stationary steam इंजन थी a key component of the Industrial Revolution, allowing factories to locate where जल शक्ति was unavailable.
आज भाप turbines generate about 90 % of the electric power in the United States using a किस्में of ऊष्मा sources.
भाप engines हैं बाह्य combustion engines, जहाँ the working fluid is पृथक इससे the दहन products.
Non-combustion ऊष्मा स्त्रोत ऐसे as सौर शक्ति, nuclear शक्ति or geothermal energy may be प्रयुक्त.
the ideal thermodynamic साईकिल प्रयुक्त to analyze इस process is called the Rankine cycle.
In the cycle, water is heated into भाप in a boiler until it reaches a ऊँची pressure.
जब विस्तारित through pistons or turbines, mechanical work is done.
The reduced-pressure भाप is then सघन और pumped वापस into the boiler.
in general उपयोग, the पद steam इंजन can refer to either the एकीकृत steam plants ( सहित बायलरों etc. ) such as railway steam इंजनों और portable इंजन, or may refer to the पिस्टन or टर्बाइन मशीनरी अलोन, as in the बीम engine और stationary भाप इंजन.
specialized devices such as steam hammers और steam pile ड्राइवर are निर्भर on भाप supplied इससे a separate बॉयलर.
A मिल engine इससे stott पार्क bobbin मिल, Cumbria, England
A भाप लोकोमोटिव in जर्मनी.this class of engine थी built in 1942 – 1950 और संचालित commercially until 1988.
`` मूव Bitch '' ( edited संस्करण titled `` मूव b***h '' or बस `` Move '' ) is the third official single इससे rapper Ludacris ' एल्बम शब्द of Mouf.
The सिंगल features Mystikal और i-20.
the single reached # 10 on the Billboard Hot 100 बनाना it ludacris 's first शीर्ष टेन hit on the chart, it भी पहुँचे # 3 on hot Rap ट्रैक्स and # 3 on hot r & B/Hip-Hop singles & Tracks.
Puerto rican reggaeton duo Maicol & Manuel sampled the song on `` Hoy me Levanté '' on their 2002 रिलीज yakaleo.
the सोंग is भी प्रदर्शित in episode 2, श्रेणी एक of अंग्रेजों teen comedy/drama Skins.
the song was also used by World कुश्ती entertainment superstar Montel Vontavious Porter दौरान his छोटी stint in रिंग of सम्मान.
it थी also प्रयुक्त लिये April Hunter in विभिन्न Independent circuits.
it was प्रदर्शित in the movie ATL starring t.i., और ' Hancock, ' although in the latter, the clean version थी प्रयुक्त.
a snippet of the song is निभाई दौरान ट्रैफ़िक reports on अनेक रेडियो स्टेशन, usually carrying an urban/hip-hop format.
रिटायर्ड एनबीए star and now ईएसपीएन analyst jalen Rose is featured in the music video.
the सोंग रै महरूम covered by rock band प्रारंभ Trouble, on their एल्बम प्रत्येक समाधान रै Its प्रॉब्लम.
It थी प्रदर्शित on अंग्रेजों sitcom the inbetweeners when the characters jay और neil took Will on a 'pussy patrol ' in jay 's रेड निसान micra.
it was sampled by लड़की बात on the first track of उसके एल्बम All Day, `` oh No ''.
एलिज़ाबेथ ii ( Elizabeth एलेक्जेंड्रा मरियम ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the संवैधानिक monarch of 16 sovereign states, ज्ञात as the Commonwealth realms, and their territories और dependencies, और head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations.
She is Supreme Governor of the Church of England and, in कुछ of her realms, carries the title of defender of the Faith as part of उसके full शीर्षक.
On her accession on 6 फ़रवरी 1952, एलिज़ाबेथ became Head of the राष्ट्रमंडल and महारानी regnant of सात स्वतंत्र राष्ट्रमंडल देशों : the संयुक्त किंगडम, कनाडा, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, New जीलैंड, दक्षिण Africa, Pakistan and Ceylon.
इससे 1956 to 1992, the क्रमांक of उसके realms varied as territories gained स्वतंत्रता और कुछ realms became republics.
at present, in addition to the first चार aforementioned देशों, Elizabeth is Queen of जमैका, Barbados, the बहामा, हरा, Papua New Guinea, the Solomon आइलैंड्स, Tuvalu, संत Lucia, संत विंसेंट and the grenadines, Belize, अण्टीगुआ और Barbuda और Saint किट्स और नेविस.
उसके शासनकाल of years is currently the second longest for a British monarch ; तभी Queen Victoria has reigned longer at over 63 years.
Elizabeth थी born in London and educated privately at घर.
उसके पिता acceded to the throne as जार्ज VI in 1936 on the abdication of उसके bhai Edward VIII, इससे which समय she थी the वारिस presumptive.
She began to undertake public duties during the Second संसार War, in जिससे वो परोसा in the auxiliary territorial सेवा.
in 1947, she शादीशुदा प्रिंस फिलिप, ड्यूक of एडिनबर्ग, with जिसको she रै four children : चार्ल्स, ऐनी, एंड्रयू, and Edward.
Her राजतिलक service took प्लेस in 1953 and थी the first to be televised.
the महारानी 's अनेक historic visits and meetings include a state visit to the गणतंत्र of आयरलैंड और reciprocal visits to and from the Pope.
The Queen has seen major constitutional परिवर्तन in her realms, ऐसे as devolution in the संयुक्त किंगडम and the patriation of the कनाडाई constitution.
Times of निजी significance have शामिल the births and विवाह of उसके children, the births of her grandchildren, the प्रतिष्ठापन of the Prince of Wales, और the जश्न of milestones such as उसके चांदी, सुनहरी, और डायमंड Jubilees in 1977, 2002, और 2012, respectively.
प्रमुख events in the महारानी 's reign have शामिल the Troubles in Northern आयरलैंड, the Falklands War, युद्धों with Iraq और the War in अफगानिस्तान.
वहीँ have been टाइम्स of personal sorrow for उसके जिससे include the death of उसके father at 56, the assassination of Prince Philip 's uncle, Lord माउंटबेटन, the breakdown of उसके children 's marriages in 1992 ( a year deemed उसके annus horribilis ), the मौत in 1997 of उसके former daughter-in-law, Diana, राजकुमारी of वेल्स, and the मौतों of her माँ and सिस्टर in 2002.
The महारानी has occasionally faced severe दबायें criticism of the royal family और republican sentiments, but support लिये the साम्राज्य and उसके निजी popularity remain ऊँची.
christianity is the largest धर्म listed by Australians in the national census.
in the 2011 जनसांख्यिकी, 61.1 % of australians were listed as Christian.
ऑस्ट्रेलिया has no आधिकारिक state धर्म और the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई Constitution protects स्वतंत्रता of religion.
the उपस्थिति of Christianity in ऑस्ट्रेलिया began साथ the आगमन of the पहला बेड़े of British convicts in 1788.
the religion grew to खाता for 96.1 % of the national जनसांख्यिकी at the समय of the संघ of Australia in 1901.
the Anglican Church of Australia ( formerly known as the Church of इंग्लैण्ड in Australia ) remained the largest denomination जबतक 1986, जब it थी surpassed by the Roman कैथोलिक Church in Australia.
Post-war multiculturalism और a मनाही in धार्मिक observance among some sections of the जनसांख्यिकी have diversified the जनसांख्यिकी of धर्म in Australia.
of the roughly 61 % identifying as Christian in 2011, the largest denominations यहूद either रोमन कैथोलिक ( 25 % ) or anglican ( 17 % ), with the तीसरा largest denomination होने the 5 % affiliated with the Uniting गिरिजाघर in ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
Post-war immigration has grown the numbers belonging to churches जैसे the यूनानी परंपरागत Archdiocese of ऑस्ट्रेलिया and there are large और growing Pentecostal groups, such as Sydney 's hillsong गिरिजाघर.
The त्यौहार of ईस्टर and Christmas are पब्लिक छुट्टियाँ in ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
Around a क्वार्टर of students attend गिरिजाघर schools और ईसाई organisations हैं अग्रणी non-government providers of स्वास्थ्य and welfare services through organisations like कैथोलिक स्वास्थ्य Australia, anglicare, unitingcare Australia, the मोक्ष Army and St Vincent de Paul Society.
historically significant Australian ईसाइयों have included रेव dr जॉन dunmore Lang, संत Mary MacKillop, Catherine हेलेन spence, पादरी David Unaipon, the रेवरेंड John Flynn और पादरी Sir Doug Nicholls.
High profile समकालीन ऑस्ट्रेलियाई ईसाइयों include : टिम Costello बैपटिस्ट मंत्री और current CEO of संसार दृष्टि ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Frank ब्रेनन, Jesuit इंसान rights वकील, कार्डिनल George pell, कैथोलिक archbishop of Sydney, Phillip Aspinall the current anglican Primate and Archbishop of Brisbane, केविन Rudd, पूर्व Labor प्रधान मंत्री, और Tony एबॉट, नेता लिये the Federal विपक्ष उदार पार्टी.
चार्टर बनाना कॉलेजिएट School, जिससे became Yale कॉलेज, अक्तूबर 9, 1701
yale University is a निजी Ivy League शोध university located in New हेवन, कनेक्टिकट.
संस्थापित in 1701 in the उपनिवेश of कनेक्टिकट, the विश्वविद्यालयों is the third-oldest institution of higher education in the United States.
Originally चार्टर्ड as the `` Collegiate School '', the संस्था traces its जड़ें to 17th-century clergymen जो sought to स्थापित a college to train clergy and political leaders लिये the उपनिवेश.
In 1718, the College was renamed `` Yale College '' to सम्मान a तोहफा इससे Elihu Yale, a राज्यपाल of the अंग्रेजों ईस्ट इण्डिया Company.
in 1861, the Graduate School of Arts और sciences became the first U.S. संस्था to पुरस्कार the PhD. yale became a founding सदस्य of the Association of अमरीकी Universities in 1900.
yale College थी transformed, शुरूआत in the 1930s, through the establishment of आवासीय colleges : 12 now मौजूद और दो अधिक are नियोजित.
yale employs over 1,100 faculty to सिखा और सलाह about 5,300 undergraduate and 6,100 graduate और professional विद्यार्थी.
लगभग सब tenured professors teach undergraduate पाठ्यक्रम, more than 2,000 of जिससे are offered annually.
the विश्वविद्यालयों 's assets include an endowment valued at $ 19.4 अरब, the second-largest of any academic संस्था in the world.
Yale 's प्रणाली of अधिक than two dozen पुस्तकालयों holds 12.5 million volumes.
49 नोबेल Laureates have been संबद्ध with the विश्वविद्यालयों as students, संकाय, और staff.
Yale रै उत्पादित अनेक notable alumni, सहित five u.S. Presidents, 19 u.S. Supreme अदालत justices, and अनेक foreign heads of state.
At the graduate स्तर, yale Law School, yale School of आर्ट, and yale School of Drama are consistently ranked the शीर्ष कार्यक्रम in their field.
yale विधि School is the सबसे चयनात्मक विधि school in the United States.
yale students compete intercollegiately as the Yale bulldogs in the ncaa प्रभाग I Ivy लीग.
The oldest intercollegiate एथलेटिक event in the United States is the Yale-Harvard regatta.
Artemisia tridentata ( `` बिग sagebrush '' or `` sagebrush '' ) is an aromatic shrub इससे the family Asteraceae, which grows in arid और semi-arid शर्तें, throughout a दायरा of ठंडा मरुस्थल, steppe, and पहाड़ habitats in the Intermountain West of North अमेरिका.
the देशी name `` sagebrush '' is also used for several related सदस्यों of the genus artemisia, such as कैलिफ़ोर्निया sagebrush ( artemisia californica ).
बिग sagebrush and other artemisia प्रजाति are the dominant plants आरपार विशाल portions of the Great जलाशय, covering some 422,000 square miles in 11 पश्चिमी U.S. & Canadian राज्य.
it is the राज्य flower of नेवाडा.
sagebrush provides food और आवास for a variety of species, ऐसे as ऋषि grouse, pronghorn antelope, धूसर vireo, सानो खरगोश, और mule deer.
Big sagebrush was प्रयुक्त as an herbal medicine by देशी अमेरिकी throughout the intermountain West of North america—especially लिये preventing संक्रमण in wounds, stopping आतंरिक bleeding, और treating headaches और जुकाम.
chemically, the क्रियाशील औषधीय constituents शामिल camphor, terpenoids, और tannins.
Several प्रमुख threats exist to ऋषि brush ecosystems, सहित human settlements, परिवर्तन to agricultural land, पशुधन चरने, invasive संयंत्र प्रजाति, wildfires, और जलवायु change.
Yahoo ! मेल is a फ़्री ईमेल सेवा offered by the अमरीकी search इंजन company याहू !
It थी शुभारम्भ in 1997, and, according to comscore, याहू ! Mail is the third-largest web-based ईमेल service with 281 million उपयोक्ता as of दिसम्बर 2012.
Currently, याहू ! offers तीन संस्करण of याहू ! मेल.
The traditional `` याहू ! मेल क्लासिक '' continues the उपलब्धता of the original इंटरफ़ेस introduced in 1997.
A version introduced in 2005 included a नई अजाक्स इंटरफ़ेस, drag-and-drop features, improved search functionality, keyboard shortcuts, address auto-complete, टैब्स, और other updated features.
In अक्तूबर 2010, Yahoo ! released a बीटा version of Yahoo ! Mail, which शामिल improvements to the डिज़ाइन, performance, search कार्यक्षमता, और फेसबुक संयोजन.
In may 2011, बीटा testing for the new version रोका, and it became the default इंटरफ़ेस for Yahoo ! मेल.
in early 2008, याहू ! began offering unlimited mail भंडार to its users in response to heated प्रतियोगिता in the फ़्री web-mail market segment.
On जून 27, 2009, Yahoo ! Messenger थी integrated with Yahoo ! Mail.
टकोमा (, ) is a mid-sized शहरी बंदरगाहों नगर और the county seat of Pierce County, Washington, संयुक्त राज्य.
the नगर is on वॉशिंगटन 's puget Sound, southwest of Seattle, पूर्वोत्तर of the राज्य पूंजी, ओलंपिया, और उत्तरपश्चिम of Mount Rainier नेशनल Park.
The population was 198,397, according to the 2010 census.
टकोमा is the second-largest city in the puget ध्वनि area and the third largest in the राज्य.
टकोमा also serves as the center of business activity लिये the South ध्वनि region, which रै a जनसांख्यिकी of around 1 million लोगों.
टकोमा अपनाया इसके नाम after the nearby Mount rainier, originally called माउंट Tahoma.
it is ज्ञात as the `` City of नियति '' क्युकी the area was chosen to be the पश्चिमी टर्मिनस of the Northern प्रशांत Railroad in the late 19th सदी.
the निर्णय of the railroad थी influenced by टकोमा 's neighboring deep-water हार्बर, Commencement खाड़ी.
by connecting the bay साथ the रेलरोड टकोमा 's motto became `` जब rails meet sails. ''
आज शुरुआत Bay serves the बंदरगाहों of टकोमा, a center of अंतरराष्ट्रीय trade on the Pacific coast and वॉशिंगटन राज्य 's largest बंदरगाहों.
Like most central cities, Tacoma suffered a prolonged decline in the mid-20th सदी as a result of suburbanization और divestment.
चूंकि the 1990s, developments in the downtown core शामिल the University of Washington टकोमा ; टकोमा Link, the पहला आधुनिक इलेक्ट्रिक लाइट रेल सेवा in the state ; the state 's highest घनत्व of art और history संग्रहालय ; and a restored urban waterfront, the Thea foss Waterway.
With a long history of blue-collar मजदूर politics — from the रेलरोड मजदूर of the 19th century, to the longshoremen of the 20th century, to the मजदूर Ready मजदूर of today — टकोमा रै long been known for its अशिष्ट, किरकिरी चित्र.
a सोंग about टकोमा, `` Thrice सब American '', by अमरीकी singer-songwriter and पूर्व निवासी Neko Case, describes it as `` a dusty old गहना in the दक्षिण Puget ध्वनि / where the कारखानों निकले / और the timber 's सब काटें down ''.
tacoma-pierce County has महरूम named one of the most livable areas in the देश.
Tacoma was भी recently सूचीबद्ध as the 19th most walkable city in the देश.
in कंट्रास्ट, the city is also क्रमित as the सबसे stressed-out नगर in the देश in a 2004 सर्वेक्षण.
in 2006, महिलाओं 's पत्रिका स्वः named टकोमा the `` सबसे Sexually Healthy City '' in the United States.
in 2012, the एडवोकेट दिया Tacoma the शीर्षक of `` Gayest नगर in America '', in part क्युकी of the large diversity of पब्लिक offices held, and वॉशिंगटन राज्य गुजर a bill in 2012 allowing lgbt युगल to निकाह.
टकोमा is famous for the 1940 collapse of the Tacoma Narrows सेतु.
chula विस्टा ( ; ) is the second largest city in the सैन Diego महानगर क्षेत्रफल, the सातवाँ largest नगर in Southern कैलिफ़ोर्निया, the fourteenth largest city in the State of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, और the 77th-largest city in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 243,916 as of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
स्तिथ just from downtown सैन डिएगो और from the Mexican border in the दक्षिण खाड़ी प्रदेश of the metropolitan area, the city is at the center of एक of the richest economic और culturally विविध zones in the संयुक्त States.
chula विस्टा is so नामित because of its scenic स्थान between the San डिएगो Bay and तटीय mountain foothills.
Founded in the जल्दी 19th सदी, fast जनसांख्यिकी growth रै recently महरूम observed in the नगर.
as the दूसरी largest city in San Diego County, chula Vista रै जल्दी become a गंतव्य popular to many पर्यटकों.
स्तिथ in the नगर is एक of अमेरिका 's few year-round संयुक्त राज्य ओलम्पिक प्रशिक्षण centers और लोकप्रिय पर्यटक destinations include Cricket बेतार Amphitheater, the chula विस्टा marina, और the chula विस्टा Nature Center.
metes और bounds is a प्रणाली or विधि of describing land, real property ( in contrast to निजी प्रॉपर्टी ) or real estate.
the system रै महरूम प्रयुक्त in England for अनेक centuries, and is स्टिल used वहीँ in the definition of general सीमाएँ.
By कस्टम, it was लागू in the original Thirteen colonies कि became the United States, and in many other जमीन jurisdictions based on अंग्रेज़ी common विधि.
typically the प्रणाली uses physical सुविधाएँ of the local geography, साथ साथ दिशानिर्देश and दूरियाँ, to define and describe the सीमाएँ of a पार्सल of जमीन.
The सीमाएँ हैं described in a running गद्य स्टाइल, working around the पार्सल in sequence, इससे a पाइंट of शुरूआत, returning back to the same पाइंट ; compare with the oral अनुष्ठान of beating the bounds.
It may शामिल references to other adjoining parcels ( और उनके स्वामी ), और it, in फेरे, could also be referred to in बाद surveys.
At the time the description is compiled, it may have been चिह्नित on the ground with permanent स्मारक लगाई where there यहूद no उपयुक्त natural स्मारक.
the term `` metes '' refers to a boundary पारिभाषित by the मापन of प्रत्येक straight run, specified by a distance between the टर्मिनल अंक, and an अभिविन्यास or दिशा.
a direction may be a सरल compass bearing, or a precise अभिविन्यास determined by सटीक survey विधि.
The term `` bounds '' refers to a अधिक सामान्य boundary वर्णन, ऐसे as along a certain watercourse, a stone wall, an adjoining पब्लिक सड़क रास्ता, or an existing building.
the प्रणाली is often used to define larger टुकड़े of property ( e.g. farms ), और political subdivisions ( e.g. कस्बा boundaries ) जहाँ precise परिभाषा is नहीं required or would be far too महंगी, or previously designated सीमाएँ can be incorporated into the वर्णन.
Sir Isaac न्यूटन ( 25 December 164220 March 1727 ) was an अंग्रेज़ी physicist and mathematician who is widely regarded as एक of the most influential scientists of सब time और as a key फिगर in the वैज्ञानिक revolution.
उसके book philosophiæ naturalis Principia mathematica ( `` गणितीय Principles of Natural Philosophy '' ), पहला published in 1687, रखी the foundations for सबसे of classical यांत्रिकी.
Newton भी बना seminal contributions to optics and shares credit साथ Gottfried Leibniz लिये the invention of the infinitesimal कलन.
Newton 's Principia formulated the laws of motion and universal gravitation कि वर्चस्व वैज्ञानिकों ' view of the शारीरिक ब्रह्मांड लिये the अगला तीन सदियां.
It भी demonstrated that the गति of वस्तुएँ on the Earth और कि of celestial bodies could be वर्णित by the same principles.
by deriving कॅप्लर 's laws of ग्रहीय गति from his गणितीय वर्णन of gravity, Newton removed the पिछला doubts परिचय the validity of the heliocentric model of the cosmos.
न्यूटन built the first व्यावहारिक reflecting दूरदर्शी और developed a सिद्धान्त of colour आधारित on the अवलोकन that a prism decomposes श्वेत light into the अनेक रंग of the दृश्य spectrum.
he also formulated an empirical law of cooling and पढ़ाई the गति of ध्वनि.
In जोड to his कार्य on the calculus, as a mathematician न्यूटन contributed to the study of power श्रेणी, generalised the binomial theorem to non-integer exponents, और developed न्यूटन 's विधि for approximating the जड़ें of a function.
न्यूटन थी a fellow of Trinity College and the दूसरी Lucasian प्राध्यापक of Mathematics at the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैम्ब्रिज.
He was a devout but unorthodox Christian और, unusually for a member of the कैम्ब्रिज faculty, he refused to लो holy आदेश in the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड, शायद because he privately rejected the doctrine of trinitarianism.
In addition to उसके work on the mathematical sciences, Newton भी समर्पित much of उसके time to the study of alchemy and biblical chronology, but सबसे of उसके कार्य in those क्षेत्रों remained unpublished जबतक long बाद उसके मौत.
In उसके बाद जीवन, न्यूटन became president of the royal Society.
he also served the British सरकारी as Warden और Master of the royal Mint.
Prof. Walter lewin explains न्यूटन 's law of gravitation in एमआईटी कोर्स 8.01
Satellites और projectiles सब obey न्यूटन 's law of gravitation
न्यूटन 's law of universal gravitation राज्य that प्रत्येक point mass in the universe attracts every अन्य point mass साथ a फ़ोर्स कि is directly proportional to the उत्पाद of their masses and inversely proportional to the square of the अलहदा between them.
( separately it was shown कि विशाल spherically सममित masses attract और are आकर्षित as if सब their द्रव्यमान were concentrated at उनके centers. )
This is a general शारीरिक law derived इससे अनुभवजन्य observations by कया न्यूटन पुकारा प्रेरण.
it is a भाग of शास्त्रीय mechanics and was प्रतिपादित in Newton 's work philosophiæ Naturalis प्रिन्सिपिया mathematica ( `` the Principia '' ), first published on 5 जुलाई 1687.
( जब न्यूटन 's किताब थी presented in 1686 to the royal समाज, Robert hooke made a claim that Newton था obtained the विलोम वर्गाकार विधि इससे him – देखिए इतिहास खण्ड below. )
in modern भाषा, the विधि states the following:
Assuming si इकाई, F is measured in newtons ( N ), m1 और m2 in गामा ( kg ), r in मीटर ( m ), and the constant g is लगभग equal to.
The value of the निरंतर g was पहला accurately संकल्पित इससे the परिणाम of the कैवेंडिश experiment conducted by the British scientist हेनरी Cavendish in 1798, although कैवेंडिश किया not खुद गणना a numerical मान for G.
इस experiment was भी the पहला परीक्षण of Newton 's सिद्धान्त of gravitation between masses in the laboratory.
it took place 111 years बाद the प्रकाशन of Newton 's Principia और 71 years after Newton 's मौत, so none of Newton 's calculations could उपयोग the मान of g ; बजाय he could only गणना a force सापेक्ष to another force.
Newton 's विधि of gravitation resembles कूलम्ब 's law of विद्युत forces, which is used to गणना the परिमाण of विद्युत force between दो चार्ज लाशें.
दोनो are inverse-square laws, in which फ़ोर्स is inversely आंशिक to the वर्गाकार of the अलहदा between the लाशें.
कूलम्ब 's Law रै the उत्पाद of two charges in प्लेस of the उत्पाद of the masses, और the electrostatic constant in प्लेस of the gravitational constant.
Newton 's विधि has चूंकि been superseded by Einstein 's theory of general आपेक्षिकता, but it continues to be used as an excellent सन्निकटन of the प्रभाव of gravity.
आपेक्षिकता is required तभी when there is a need लिये extreme precision, or when dealing with gravitation लिये extremely massive और घना वस्तुएँ.
White and red ध्वज, representing इराकी और American deaths, sit in the grass चतुष्कोण of The घाटी Library on the Corvallis, Oregon, कैम्पस of Oregon राज्य University.
as भाग of the traveling Iraq Body Count exhibit इससे 2008 to 2009 ( not सम्बन्धित to इराकी देह गिनती project ), the ध्वज उद्देश्य to `` raise जागरूकता of the इंसान लागत of the इराकी युद्ध. ''
( May 2008 )
हताहत of the conflict in Iraq since 2003 ( beginning with the 2003 invasion of Iraq, और continuing with the ensuing occupation of Iraq, as well as the क्रियाएँ of the विभिन्न हथियारबंद समूह ऑपरेटिंग in the देश ) have come in अनेक फ़ॉर्म, और the सटीकता of the information available on different types of इराकी युद्ध casualties varies greatly.
the table नीचे summarizes various estimates of the इराकी casualty figures.
लिये सैनिकों in the u.s.-led बहुराष्ट्रीय coalition, the मौत toll is carefully tracked and updated daily, and the names and छायाचित्र of those मारे in action as खूब as in accidents have महरूम published widely.
A total of 4,486 u.S. सैनिको were killed in Iraq between 2003 और 2012.
regarding the Iraqis, however, information on both military और civilian casualties is both कम precise and कम सतत.
estimates of casualty levels are उपलब्धियाँ इससे पत्रकारों on the झाँकी, from officials of शामिल organizations, and from groups कि summarize information on incidents reported in the news मीडिया.
The word `` casualties `` in its सबसे general sense includes the injured as खूब as the मुर्दे.
Accounts of the number of coalition wounded vary widely, partly because it is not obvious कया should be गिने : should तभी those चोटों गंभीर पर्याप्त to put a सिपाही आउट of commission be included ?
do बीमारियों or injuries caused by दुर्घटनाओं गिनती, or चाहिए the focus be restricted to wounds caused by शत्रु सगाई ?
Sources using अलग definitions may arrive at बहुत अलग numbers, और sometimes the precise definition is नहीं clearly specified.
Asalto al coche ( Robbery of the coach ), by Francisco de गोया
a highwayman was a thief और brigand who preyed on travellers.
इस type of outlaw usually travelled और robbed by horse, as compared to a footpad जो travelled and robbed on पैर.
आरोहित robbers यहूद widely considered to be socially superior to footpads.
Such लुटेरों operated in Great Britain and Ireland इससे the Elizabethan era until the जल्दी 19th century.
The शब्द highwayman is पहला ज्ञात to be used in the year 1617 ; other euphemisms included `` knights of the सड़क '' and `` gentlemen of the road. ''
दो terms लागू to 19th-century North अमरीकी highwaymen were सड़क एजेंटों in some instances for पहाड़ डाकुओं while in other cases the term is rlallaala for mountain-based ruffians.
in the same time काल in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, they यहूद known as bushrangers.
earvin `` जादू '' जॉनसन, Jr. ( born August 14, 1959 ) is a रिटायर्ड अमरीकी professional बास्केट player who निभाई point गार्ड for the लॉस Angeles लेकर्स of the National Basketball संघ ( एनबीए ).
After जीतना championships in high स्कूल और college, Johnson थी चयनित पहला overall in the 1979 NBA ड्राफ्ट by the Lakers.
He won a चैंपियनशिप and an एनबीए फाइनल Most मूल्यवान Player Award in his rookie ऋतु, और जीती four more championships साथ the Lakers दौरान the 1980s.
जॉनसन retired abruptly in 1991 after announcing कि he had contracted hiv, लकिन लौटे to play in the 1992 all-star खेल, winning the all-star MVP Award.
After विरोध इससे his fellow players, he रिटायर्ड again for चार सालो, but returned in 1996, at आयु 36, to play 32 खेल लिये the लेकर्स before retiring for the third और फाइनल time.
Johnson 's करियर उपलब्धियाँ include तीन एनबीए mvp पुरस्कार, nine NBA Finals appearances, twelve all-star खेल, and टेन all-nba First और Second Team nominations.
He led the league in regular-season assists चार times, and is the NBA 's all-time नेता in औसत assists प्रति खेल, at 11.2.
जॉनसन थी a member of the `` सपना Team ``, the u.S. बास्केट team कि जीती the ओलम्पिक gold medal in 1992.
After leaving the NBA in 1992, Johnson formed the Magic Johnson All-Stars, a barnstorming टोली कि travelled around the संसार playing exhibition games.
जॉनसन थी honored as one of the 50 महानतम Players in NBA इतिहास in 1996, और enshrined in the Basketball Hall of Fame in 2002.
He was रेटेड the greatest NBA point गार्ड of सब time by ESPN in 2007.
His friendship and फंसने with Boston Celtics star लैरी बर्ड, whom he faced in the 1979 ncaa finals and three एनबीए championship श्रेणी, were खूब documented.
चूंकि उसके retirement, Johnson रै been an एडवोकेट लिये HIV/ AIDS रोकथाम and safe sex, as खूब as an entrepreneur, philanthropist, broadcaster and motivational speaker.
जॉनसन was a part-owner of the Lakers for several years, और थी part of a समूह कि purchased the Los Angeles Dodgers in 2012.
allium cells in different phases of the कोशिका cycle
The कोशिकाएं of eukaryotes ( बाएँ ) और prokaryotes ( right )
the cell is the basic structural, functional and biological ईकाई of all known living जीवों.
It is the smallest unit of जीवन that is classified as a living बात ( मगर वायरस, जिससे consists only इससे dna/rna covered by प्रोटीन और lipids ), और is प्रायः called the भवन block of life.
it consists of a protoplasm enclosed within a membrane, जिससे contains अनेक biomolecules such as proteins और nucleic acids.
Organisms can be वर्गीकृत as एककोशिकीय ( consisting of a single कोशिका ; including most जीवाणु ) or multicellular ( including पौधे and animals ).
While the क्रमांक of कोशिकाएं in plants and animals varies इससे प्रजाति to species, Humans contain about 100 खरब ( 1014 ) कोशिकाएं.
Most संयंत्र और एनिमल cells are between 1 and 100 micrometres और इसलिए are visible only under the सूक्ष्मदर्शी.
The कोशिका was खोजा by Robert hooke in 1665.
the cell theory, first विकसित in 1839 by Matthias Jakob schleiden और theodor Schwann, राज्य कि all organisms are composed of एक or अधिक cells, कि सब कोशिकाएं come इससे preexisting कोशिकाएं, that vital कृत्यों of an सजीव occur भीतर cells, और that सब कोशिकाएं contain the खानदानी information necessary for regulating कोशिका कृत्यों और लिये transmitting information to the अगला generation of कोशिकाएं.
कोशिकाएं emerged on planet Earth at तनिक 4.0–4.3 अरब years पहले.
The शब्द cell comes from the Latin गर्भगृह, अर्थ `` छोटी room ''.
The descriptive term for the smallest living biological ढांचा थी coined by Robert Hooke in a किताब he प्रकाशित in 1665 when he compared the कॉर्क कोशिकाएं he saw through his microscope to the छोटी rooms monks lived in.
grecian Formula is a men 's बाल coloring उत्पाद in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Canada और Europe previously banned the उत्पाद because of इसके use of lead एसीटेट.
a motor scooter 's सामने with an impractical क्रमांक और variety of headlamps, added for सजावटी purposes
A headlamp is a बल्ब संलग्न to the सामने of a vehicle to लाइट the road ahead.
Headlamp performance रै steadily improved throughout the automobile age, spurred by the ग्रेट disparity between daytime और nighttime traffic fatalities : the U.S. National Highway Traffic सुरक्षा प्रशासन राज्य कि nearly half of all traffic-related fatalities occur in the dark, despite तभी 25 % of ट्रैफ़िक यात्राएं दौरान अंधेरा.
जबकि it is आम for the term headlight to be used interchangeably in informal चर्चा, headlamp is the term for the यंत्र itself, while headlight properly refers to the बीम of light उत्पादित और distributed by the यंत्र.
अन्य वाहनों, ऐसे as trains और वायुयान, are required to have headlamps.
Bicycle headlamps are often प्रयुक्त on bicycles, and हैं required in कुछ jurisdictions.
They can be powered by a बैटरी or a small विद्युत सृजनकर्ता on the wheel.
additionally automotive night vision प्रणालियों कार्य to supplement headlamps.
महिलाओं 's अधिकारों हैं the अधिकारों and entitlements claimed लिये women और लड़कियों of अनेक समाजों worldwide.
In some स्थान ये अधिकारों are institutionalized or supported by law, local custom, और आचरण, whereas in अन्य they may be उपेक्षित or suppressed.
They differ इससे broader धारणाएं of human अधिकारों through दावा of an inherent ऐतिहासिक और traditional bias against the exercise of अधिकारों by महिलाओं और girls in पक्ष of मेन and boys.
Issues commonly associated with धारणाएं of महिलाओं 's अधिकारों शामिल, though हैं नहीं सीमित to, the सही : to bodily अखंडता और autonomy ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to hold पब्लिक office ; to कार्य ; to fair मजदूरी or equal अदा ; to अपना प्रॉपर्टी ; to education ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to डालें into legal contracts ; and to have वैवाहिक, parental और धार्मिक rights.
Caryn ऐलेन Johnson, बेहतरीन known as Whoopi गोल्डबर्ग (, ( born November 13, 1955 ) is an American comedienne, अभिनेत्री, singer-songwriter, political activist, लेखक and talk दिखाएँ मेजबान.
गोल्डबर्ग बना her film debut in the रंग Purple ( 1985 ), playing celie, a mistreated ब्लैक woman in the Deep दक्षिण.
She received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actress and won उसके पहला Golden ग्लोब Award for her role in the फिल्मी.
In 1990, वो played oda mae भूरा, a wacky मानसिक helping a slain man ( पैट्रिक swayze ) save उसके lover ( demi मूर ) in the ब्लॉकबस्टर Ghost.
This प्रदर्शन won उसके a दूसरी सुनहरी ग्लोब और an Academy Award लिये Best Supporting Actress ; this बना गोल्डबर्ग तभी the second black स्त्री in the इतिहास of the अकादमी Awards to win an acting oscar—the first being Hattie mcdaniel जो जीती लिये गए With the Wind in 1939.
notable बाद films शामिल सिस्टर Act और सिस्टर अधिनियम 2, The खिलाड़ी, बना in America, कैसा स्टेला Got Her Groove Back, लड़की, Interrupted and चूहा Race.
वो is भी acclaimed for उसके roles as the बारटेंडर guinan in स्टार Trek : The Next पीढी, as टेरी Doolittle in Jumpin ' Jack फ्लैश, and as Carmen tibideaux in Glee, as well as the आवाज़ of shenzi the hyena in the शेर किंग.
Goldberg has been मनोनीत for 13 Emmy Awards for her कार्य in television.
She थी co-producer of the लोकप्रिय game दिखाएँ Hollywood Squares from 1998 to 2004.
वो has been the मॉडरेटर of the daytime talk दिखाएँ the View चूंकि 2007.
Goldberg रै a ग्रैमी, दो Daytime Emmys, two Golden ग्लोब्स, a टोनी ( लिये production, नहीं acting ), और an ऑस्कर.
In addition, गोल्डबर्ग has a अंग्रेजों अकादमी Film Award, four लोगों 's चुनाव पुरस्कार, and रै been सम्मानित साथ a स्टार on the हॉलीवुड Walk of कीर्ति.
वो is one of the few मनोरंजनकर्ता who have जीती an Emmy, ग्रैमी, ऑस्कर, और टोनी Award.
The नेशनल हॉकी League ( एनएचएल ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit संघ '' which operates a प्रमुख पेशेवर बर्फ hockey league of 30 franchised सदस्य क्लब, of जिससे seven हैं currently स्तिथ in Canada and 23 in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Headquartered in नई York नगर, the NHL is widely considered to be the premier पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी league in the संसार, and एक of the major professional sports लीग in the संयुक्त States और कनाडा.
the Stanley Cup, the oldest professional खेल ट्रॉफी in North America, is awarded annually to the लीग playoff champion at the समाप्त of each ऋतु.
The लीग was व्यवस्थित on नवम्बर 26, 1917, in मॉन्ट्रियल, Quebec, Canada, after the बर्खास्तगी of operations of इसके predecessor organization, the नेशनल हॉकी Association ( नह ), जिससे था महरूम founded in 1909.
It प्रारंभ with चार teams and, through a series of expansions, contractions, और relocations, the league is अभी रचित of 30 क्रियाशील franchises.
The nation to जिससे the नाम of the लीग originally referred was Canada, हालांकि the लीग has अभी महरूम binational चूंकि 1924 जब it expanded into the संयुक्त States.
बाद a श्रमिक dispute that led to the रद्दीकरण of the संपूर्ण 2004–05 season, the league resumed खेल अंतर्गत a new collective bargaining agreement that included a सैलरी cap.
in 2009, the NHL enjoyed रिकार्ड highs in शर्तें of sponsorships, उपस्थिति, और टेलीविज़न ऑडियंस.
The NHL draws अनेक highly skilled खिलाड़ी इससे all over the world and currently रै खिलाड़ी from about 20 different countries.
Although canadians have historically गठित the majority of the players in the एनएचएल, over the past चार plus दशकों the percentages of US and यूरोपीय खिलाड़ी have increased both because of the NHL 's जारी विस्तार from six to तीस क्लब चूंकि 1967, and the increased availability of highly skilled यूरोपीय खिलाड़ी.
Maggots feeding on carrion.
A maggot is the लार्वा of a fly ( अनुक्रम Diptera ) ; it is लागू in particular to the लार्वे of Brachyceran उड़ता, ऐसे as houseflies, cheese उड़ता, और blowflies, rather than larvae of the Nematocera, such as mosquitoes और क्रेन flies.
`` Maggot '' is नहीं a technical term and should not be लिया as ऐसे ; in many मानक textbooks of कीटविज्ञान it करता नहीं appear in the index at सब.
in अनेक non-technical texts the term is used लिये कीट larvae in सामान्य.
Other स्त्रोत have coined their अपना परिभाषाएं ; लिये उदाहरण : ``...
The term applies to a ग्रब जब सब trace of limbs रै disappeared... '' और ``... लागू to the footless लार्वे of dipters. ''
Maggot-like मक्खी larvae are of चौड़ी importance in ecology and आयुर्विज्ञान ; among अन्य भूमिकाएँ, विभिन्न प्रजाति are prominent in रीसाइक्लिंग carrion और garbage, attacking फसलों and foodstuffs, spreading microbial infections, और causing myiasis.
Herod (, Hordos, यूनानी :, hērōdēs ), भी known as हेरोदेस the Great ( 73/74 bce – 4 bce in जेरिको ), was a Roman क्लाएंट king of Judea.
उसके epithet of `` the ग्रेट '' is widely disputed as he is described as `` a madman who murdered his own family और a ग्रेट अनेक rabbis ``.
he is also known लिये उसके colossal building projects in जेरूसलम और elsewhere, सहित उसके expansion of the Second Temple in जेरूसलम ( sometimes referred to as Herod 's Temple ) and the निर्माण of the port at caesarea Maritima.
Important विवरण of उसके biography हैं gleaned from the works of the 1st सदी CE roman–jewish historian josephus flavius.
The Romans बना Herod 's son, हेरोदेस Archelaus, ethnarch of Judea, samaria, and Idumea ( biblical edom ) इससे 4 BCE to 6 ce, referred to as the tetrarchy of judea.
Archelaus थी judged incompetent by the रोमन emperor augustus जो then संयुक्त Samaria, judea उचित and Idumea into Iudaea प्रांत अंतर्गत rule of a prefect जबतक आयु 41.
हेरोदेस 's अन्य बेटे हेरोदेस antipas थी tetrarch of galilee from 4 bce–39 CE.
abo blood समूह antigens present on red रक्त कोशिकाएं and igm antibodies उपस्थित in the सीरम
The ABO blood समूह प्रणाली is the सबसे important रक्त type प्रणाली ( or blood group system ) in इंसान रक्त transfusion.
the संबद्ध anti-A और anti-b antibodies are प्रायः igm antibodies, which हैं usually produced in the पहला सालो of life by sensitization to environmental substances such as खाना, bacteria, और वाइरस.
ABO रक्त प्रकार are also present in some other animals, लिये example apes ऐसे as chimpanzees, bonobos, and gorillas.
साल 1907 ( MCMVII ) was a आम साल starting on मंगलवार ( link will प्रदर्शक the पूरा calendar ) of the gregorian calendar and a common साल starting on Monday of the 13-day-slower Julian पंचांग.
northville is an affluent नगर स्तिथ in और विभाजित by ओकलैंड and Wayne counties in the U.S. state of Michigan.
the क्षेत्रफल is a उपनगरीय of Metropolitan डेट्रॉयट.
the population was 5,970 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
Most of the city is in ओकलैंड काउंटी, and is घिरी by the नगर of novi.
The Wayne County portion is घिरी by northville Township.
northville is served by Northville पब्लिक Schools.
The नगर is स्तिथ northeast of ऐन arbor और northwest of डेट्रॉयट.
Elaine stritch ( born February 2, 1925 ) is an अमरीकी actress और vocalist.
She रै appeared in numerous stage plays and musicals, विशेषता films, and अनेक टेलीविज़न programs.
She is ज्ञात लिये उसके प्रदर्शन of `` The Ladies जो लंच '' in स्टीफन sondheim 's 1970 musical Company, उसके 2001 one-woman show, Elaine stritch at Liberty, और recently लिये her role as जोकर donaghy 's mother Colleen on एनबीसी 's 30 चट्टान.
She has been मनोनीत लिये the Tony Award five times in various categories.
Stritch is also a three-time एमी Award winner.
misfits is a अंग्रेजों विज्ञान fiction comedy-drama टेलीविज़न show परिचय a समूह of यंग offenders sentenced to कार्य in a community सेवा programme, where वे obtain अलौकिक शक्तियां after a अजीब विद्युत storm.
The श्रेणी खोली in 2009 and is currently जारी.
Antonia थामस, Iwan rheon, Lauren socha, नाथन Stewart-Jarrett, and Robert Sheehan are introduced as अलीशा डैनियल्स, Simon Bellamy, Kelly बेली, कर्टिस डोनोवन, and Nathan यंग respectively.
Sheehan left after the second series, replaced in the तीसरा by जोसेफ gilgun as रूडी Wade.
After the चौथी श्रेणी was announced Rheon, थामस and Socha had left their भूमिकाएँ and होता be replaced by नई वर्ण कार्ला crome, Nathan McMullen and मैट Stokoe, as जेस, Finn और Alex respectively.
मिडवे through the चौथी series, Stewart-Jarrett left जबकि Natasha O'Keeffe joined the cast as ऐबी स्मिथ.
on 19 कूच 2013, चैनल 4 announced at a press इवेंट कि वे have renewed misfits for a fifth and फाइनल series containing 8 episodes.
ब्रेट lorenzo favre ( born अक्तूबर 10, 1969 ) is a पूर्व अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक जो spent the बहुमत of उसके करियर with the Green खाड़ी पैकर्स of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( NFL ).
He was a 20-year दिग्गज of the NFL, having played क्वार्टरबैक लिये the Atlanta Falcons ( 1991 ), Green खाड़ी पैकर्स ( 1992 – 2007 ), नई York jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ).
favre is the तभी क्वार्टरबैक in एनएफएल history to throw for over 70,000 yards, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, and over 10,000 pass कोशिशें.
Favre प्रारंभ at the quarterback स्थिति लिये the विश्वविद्यालयों of दक्षिणी Mississippi लिये चार सालो before being selected in the दूसरी गोलाकार of the 1991 एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ).
He थी traded to ग्रीन Bay on फ़रवरी 10, 1992, for the 19th चुनें in the 1992 NFL ड्राफ्ट.
Favre became the Packers ' starting क्वार्टरबैक in the fourth game of the 1992 ऋतु, stepping in लिये injured quarterback Don Majkowski, and started प्रत्येक खेल through the 2007 season.
He was traded to the New यॉर्क Jets and started at क्वार्टरबैक for the 2008 ऋतु पहले signing with the वाइकिंग्स on अगस्त 18, 2009 as their starting quarterback.
He made an NFL record 297 consecutive starts ( 321 सहित playoffs ).
he is the तभी खिलाड़ी to जीत the AP Most मूल्यवान Player तीन consecutive टाइम्स ( 1995–97 ).
he रै led teams to eight प्रभाग championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), पाँच NFC चैंपियनशिप खेल ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), and दो सुपर कटोरी appearances ( सुपर Bowl XXXI, Super Bowl XXXII ), winning one ( Super कटोरी XXXI ).
He holds अनेक एनएफएल records, including सबसे करियर touchdown passes, most career गुजर गज, सबसे career pass completions, सबसे करियर pass कोशिशें, सबसे करियर interceptions thrown, सबसे consecutive starts by a player, सबसे consecutive starts by a quarterback, most career victories as a starting क्वार्टरबैक, most बर्खास्त, and most fumbles.
He is also referred to by his nickname `` the gunslinger ''.
the following is a list of notable वायुयान hijackings around the संसार.
the संसार Wide Web ( abbreviated as www or w3, commonly ज्ञात as the वेब ), is a system of interlinked हाइपरटेक्स्ट documents पहुँचा via the अंतरजाल.
With a web browser, one can दृश्य web pages कि may contain टेक्स्ट, बिंब, वीडियो, and अन्य multimedia, और navigate between उन्हें via hyperlinks.
using अवधारणाओं from his पहले hypertext systems जैसे ENQUIRE, British engineer, computer scientist and at कि time कर्मचारी of the CERN, Sir Tim berners-lee, now Director of the संसार चौड़ी वेब Consortium ( w3c ), लिखा a प्रस्ताव in कूच 1989 लिये what होता eventually become the संसार Wide वेब.
At cern, a यूरोपीय शोध organisation near जेनेवा straddling the किनारा between France और Switzerland, berners-lee and belgian कंप्यूटर scientist Robert cailliau प्रस्तावित in 1990 to use hypertext `` to कड़ी and access information of various kinds as a web of नोड in जिससे the user can browse at होगा '', and वे सरेआम introduced the प्रोजेक्ट in दिसम्बर of the वही साल.
Wayne lyman मोर्स ( अक्तूबर 20, 1900july 22, 1974 ) थी a राजनेता and attorney इससे ऑरेगॉन, United States, known for उसके proclivity लिये opposing his parties ' leadership, and specifically for his opposition to the Vietnam War on संवैधानिक grounds.
Born in मैडिसन, विस्कॉन्सिन, and शिक्षित at the विश्वविद्यालयों of Wisconsin-Madison and the विश्वविद्यालयों of Minnesota विधि स्कूल, मोर्स moved to ऑरेगॉन in 1930 और began teaching at the University of ऑरेगॉन School of विधि.
During संसार युद्ध ii he थी elected to the United States Senate as a रिपब्लिकन ; he became an स्वतंत्र बाद Dwight D. Eisenhower 's चुनाव to the presidency in 1952.
While an स्वतंत्र, he set a record लिये performing the दूसरी longest one-person filibuster in the इतिहास of the Senate.
मोर्स joined the Democratic Party in 1955, and was reelected twice जबकि a member of that पार्टी.
Morse made a ब्रैड run for the लोकतांत्रिक Party 's presidential नामांकन in 1960.
a few years later, Morse was एक of तभी two सीनेटरों जो opposed the Gulf of Tonkin रेज़ोल्यूशन, which authorized the president to take military कार्रवाई in Vietnam बगैर a घोषणा of युद्ध.
He जारी to speak आउट विरूद्ध the युद्ध in the ensuing सालो, and lost his 1968 bid लिये reelection to Bob packwood, who criticized उसके दमदार विपक्ष to the युद्ध.
मोर्स made two अधिक bids for reelection to the सीनेट before उसके मौत in 1974.
in संसदीय कार्यविधि, a motion to तालिका रै दो अलग and contradictory meanings:
In the United राज्य, to तालिका प्रायः अर्थात् the to lay [ the topic ] on the table or to मूव लिये postponement of consideration ; a proposal to बर्खास्तगी consideration of a स्थगित गति.
Much कम प्रायः, it अर्थात् a गति to `` put on the तालिका '' : a प्रस्ताव to शुरू consideration ( or reconsideration ), a usage consistent साथ the rest of the english-speaking world.
in the बाकी of the english-speaking संसार such as the United किंगडम, to तालिका अर्थात् to move to प्लेस [ the topic ] upon the तालिका ( or to move to place on the table ) : a proposal to शुरू consideration ( or reconsideration ) of a प्रस्ताव.
दोनो the अमरीकी and the British dialects have the भाव of `` to table '' as to lay [ the टॉपिक ] on the table or to कारण [ the टॉपिक ] to झूठ on the table.
the difference is the idea of कया the तालिका is लिये, कि of a shelf off to the पक्ष, or an active work bench.
The British meaning has the भाव of the तालिका as होने an active work bench, साथ the topic being the center of ध्यान, माना और discussed by सब जबतक it can be resolved, at which पाइंट it is लिया off the 'table '.
The American भाव is कि the तालिका is जैसे that of a शेल्फ, अभिलेख, or long-term storage यंत्र, where the topic रै been disposed of by sending it to the 'table ' and leaving it वहीँ.
खिलौना Story 3 is a 2010 American 3d computer animated comedy-drama prison film, और the तीसरा किश्त in the खिलौना स्टोरी श्रेणी.
It थी produced by Pixar एनिमेशन Studios और वितरित by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी Pictures.
Directed by ली unkrich, the film थी released विश्वव्यापी from जून through October in डिज़्नी Digital 3-D, RealD, और imax 3D.
खिलौना Story 3 थी भी the first film to be released theatrically साथ Dolby Surround 7.1 sound.
The पटकथा was लिखा by माइकल Arndt, while unkrich लिखा the story along साथ जॉन lasseter और Andrew Stanton, respectively निदेशक और co-writer of the दो first films.
the प्लाट focuses on the toys वुडी, बज़ lightyear, and उनके मित्रों dealing with an अनिश्चित भविष्य as their owner, एंडी, prepares to छोड़ लिये कॉलेज.
अभिनेताओं Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, Joan cusack, डॉन rickles, estelle हैरिस, John Ratzenberger, Wallace Shawn, Jeff pidgeon, Jodi बेंसन, R. Lee ermey, जॉन मॉरिस, और लॉरी Metcalf reprised उनके voice-over भूमिकाएँ from the previous films.
जिम varney, who निभाई Slinky श्वान in the पहला दो films, and जो ranft, जो portrayed lenny and Wheezy, दोनो died before production began on खिलौना स्टोरी 3.
The role of slinky Dog थी taken over by ब्लेक Clark ( a dost of Varney ), जबकि ranft 's वर्ण and various अन्य were written आउट of the story.
नई characters include performances by ned beatty, Timothy डाल्टन, क्रिस्टन schaal, Bonnie हंट, Whoopi Goldberg, जेफ़ garlin, रिचर्ड Kind, and माइकल Keaton.
the विशेषता broke Shrek the तिहाई record as the biggest opening day उत्तर अमरीकी सकल लिये an एनिमेटेड फिल्मी unadjusted for inflation, और a big opening साथ an unadjusted सकल of $ 110,307,189.
It is also the highest-grossing खोलने weekend लिये a पिक्चर्स film, as well as the highest-grossing opening वीकेंड लिये a film to have खोली in the माह of June.
इस is the highest-grossing film of 2010, both in the United राज्य and Canada, और worldwide.
in early अगस्त, it became Pixar 's highest-grossing film at the North American बक्सा office ( surpassing Finding nemo ), and the highest-grossing एनिमेटेड फिल्मी of all समय worldwide ( surpassing Shrek 2 ) ; बाद that month, खिलौना Story 3 became the first कभी animated film in इतिहास to मेक over $ 1 billion worldwide.
It is फिलहाल the 10th-highest-grossing फिल्मी of all time.
Toy स्टोरी 3 थी nominated लिये पाँच अकादमी पुरस्कार, including Best Picture, Best Adapted पटकथा, and बेहतरीन ध्वनि Editing.
it थी the third animated फिल्मी ( बाद सौंदर्य and the जानवर और up ) to be nominated for Academy पुरस्कार for Best चित्र.
it won the पुरस्कार for Best Animated Feature और बेहतरीन असली सोंग.
John levell starks ( born अगस्त 10, 1965 ) is an अमरीकी retired पेशेवर बास्केट shooting guard.
starks was सूचीबद्ध at 6'5 '' और 190 pounds during उसके NBA playing career.
हालांकि he was not drafted in the 1988 NBA ड्राफ्ट after attending चार colleges in his native Oklahoma, including Oklahoma State University, he gained कीर्ति जबकि playing लिये the New यॉर्क knicks of the National बास्केट Association in the 1990s.
सुरक्षित Digital or ( sd ) is a non-volatile मेमोरी कार्ड format for उपयोग in पोर्टेबल डिवाइस, ऐसे as mobile फोन, digital कैमरे, GPS नेविगेशन डिवाइस, and टैब्लेट कंप्यूटर.
The Secure Digital standard is maintained by the sd कार्ड संघ ( SDA ).
SD technologies have been implemented in more than 400 brands across dozens of product categories और more than 8,000 models.
the Secure डिजिटल format includes four card परिवारों उपलब्धियाँ in तीन अलग रूप कारकों.
the four families हैं the असली Standard-Capacity ( sdsc ), the High-Capacity ( SDHC ), the eXtended-Capacity ( SDXC ), and the SDIO, which combines input/output functions with आंकड़ा भंडार.
The three form कारकों हैं the असली size, the `` mini '' size, and the `` सूक्ष्म '' आकार ( see illustration ).
There हैं many combinations of form factors और यंत्र परिवारों.
Electrically passive adapters allow the उपयोग of a छोटी card in a मेजबान device built to थाम a larger कार्ड.
मेजबान devices that comply साथ newer versions of the specification provide पिछड़ा compatibility और accept older SD cards, but this article explains अनेक factors कि can prevent the उपयोग of a newer SD card:
A नए card may प्रस्ताव greater क्षमता than the host यंत्र can handle.
a newer card may use a संचिका system the host यंत्र can नहीं navigate.
Use of an sdio card requires the host यंत्र be designed लिये the input/output कृत्यों the card provides.
The organization of the card was changed starting साथ the SDHC family.
कुछ विक्रेता produced SDSC cards above 1 gb before the SDA had standardized a विधि of doing so.
The sda uses अनेक trademarked लोगो to enforce compliance साथ its specifications और assure users of संगतता.
ह्यूज John mungo ग्रान्ट ( born 9 September 1960 ) is a अंग्रेजों actor और फिल्मी निर्माता.
he रै received a Golden ग्लोब, a bafta, and an मानद César.
His films have अर्जित more than US $ 2.4 अरब from 25 नाट्य releases worldwide.
Grant achieved international स्टारडम after appearing in Richard कर्टिस 's कामयाब चार Weddings और a Funeral ( 1994 ).
He प्रयुक्त इस भेदन role as a बारंबार cinematic persona दौरान the 1990s, delivering comic प्रदर्शन in मुख्यधारा films like मिकी ब्लू आँखें ( 1999 ) and नॉटिंग Hill ( 1999 ).
By the turn of the 21st सदी, he had established खुद as a leading man skilled साथ a satirical comic talent.
Grant has expanded उसके oeuvre साथ critically acclaimed turns as a cad in ब्रिजेट जोन्स 's Diary ( 2001 ), About A लड़के ( 2002 ), Love Actually ( 2003 ), and American Dreamz ( 2006 ).
he later निभाई against प्रकार साथ multiple cameo भूमिकाएँ in the एपिक नाटक फिल्मी बादल Atlas ( 2012 ).
Within the film उद्योग, Grant is cited as an anti-film स्टार who approaches his भूमिकाएँ जैसे a character actor, and कोशिशें to मेक his acting appear spontaneous.
hallmarks of his कॉमिक कौशल include a nonchalant touch of विडंबना / sarcasm and पढ़ाई physical mannerisms as खूब as his precisely-timed संवाद delivery and फेशियल expressions.
The entertainment मीडिया 's कवरेज of Grant 's जीवन बंद the बिग screen रै प्रायः overshadowed his कार्य as a thespian.
He has महरूम गायन परिचय उसके अनादर लिये the व्यवसायिक of एक्टिंग, and in his तिरस्कार towards the संस्कृति of हस्ती and hostility towards the मीडिया.
in a करियर spanning 30 years, ग्रान्ट रै repeatedly claimed that एक्टिंग is not a सच्चा कॉलिंग but बस a job he fell into.
the हान Dynasty ( ; ) ( 206 bc – 220 ad ) was an imperial dynasty of China, preceded by the Qin राजवंश ( 221–207 BC ) और succeeded by the तीन kingdoms ( 220–280 ad ).
It was founded by the rebel नेता Liu बंग, known मरणोपरांत as सम्राट Gaozu of Han.
It थी briefly interrupted by the Xin Dynasty ( 9–23 ad ) of the पूर्व regent वांग mang.
इस interregnum separates the Han into two periods : the Western हान ( 206 bc – 9 ad ) और पूर्वी हान ( 25–220 AD ).
spanning over four centuries, the काल of the हान Dynasty is considered a सुनहरी age in Chinese history.
to इस day, China 's majority ethnic group refers to itself as the `` Han लोगों '' and the चाइनीज स्क्रिप्ट is referred to as `` हान वर्ण ``.
The Han Empire थी विभाजित into areas सीधे नियंत्रित by the सेंट्रल government, ज्ञात as commanderies, और a क्रमांक of semi-autonomous kingdoms.
ये kingdoms gradually lost सब vestiges of उनके independence, particularly following the विद्रोह of the सात States.
the xiongnu, a nomadic कनफेडरेशन जिससे dominated the पूर्वी यूरेशियाई स्तान, पराजित the हान army in बैटल in 200 bc.
Following the defeat, a राजनैतिक marriage गठबंधन थी negotiated in जिससे the हान became the de facto inferior partner.
When, despite the सन्धि, the Xiongnu continued to रेड Han सीमायें, सम्राट Wu of Han ( r. 141–87 bc ) शुभारम्भ अनेक military अभियान विरूद्ध उन्हें.
The परम Han विजय in ये युद्धों आखिरकार forced the Xiongnu to accept vassal औकात as हान tributaries.
These अभियान विस्तारित हान sovereignty into the tarim जलाशय of Central Asia and helped establish the विशाल व्यापार संजाल known as the Silk Road, जिससे पहुँचे as far as the Mediterranean world.
हान शक्तियां प्रबंधित to divide the Xiongnu into दो competing nations, the दक्षिणी और उत्तरी Xiongnu, and मजबूर the Northern Xiongnu across the Ili नदी.
despite these victories, the territories north of हान 's सीमायें were जल्दी overrun by the nomadic xianbei कनफेडरेशन.
After 92 ad, the राजमहल हिजड़े increasingly involved themselves in अदालत politics, engaging in हिंसक power struggles between the various consort clans of the empresses और सम्राज्ञी dowagers, causing the हान 's परम downfall.
Imperial authority was also seriously challenged by विशाल Daoist religious समाजों which instigated the पीला पगड़ी Rebellion और the पाँच Pecks of राइस विद्रोह.
following the death of सम्राट ling ( r. 168–189 ad ), the राजमहल हिजड़े suffered होलसेल नरसंहार by military officers, allowing members of the aristocracy and military governors to become warlords और divide the साम्राज्य.
When Cao pi, King of Wei, usurped the throne from Emperor Xian, the हान Dynasty ceased to exist.
the Han राजवंश थी an age of आर्थिक समृद्धि and saw a significant विकास of the धन अर्थव्यवस्था पहला स्थापित during the झोऊ राजवंश ( c. 1050–256 BC ).
The coinage issued by the सेंट्रल सरकारी mint in 119 bc remained the मानक coinage of China until the तंग Dynasty ( 618–907 AD ).
to pay लिये इसके military campaigns और the उपनिवेश of newly conquered frontier territories, the government राष्ट्रीयकृत the private salt and आयरन industries in 117 BC.
ये government monopolies यहूद repealed during the पूर्वी Han काल, और the खोया आय was recouped through heavily taxing private entrepreneurs.
the emperor थी at the pinnacle of Han समाज.
He presided over the हान government लकिन shared power with दोनो the धामों और नियुक्त ministers who came largely from the scholarly gentry क्लास.
From the reign of Emperor Wu onward, the चाइनीज court officially sponsored Confucianism in education और court राजनीती, synthesized साथ the cosmology of बाद विद्वानों such as डांग zhongshu.
इस नीति endured जबतक the fall of the चिंग Dynasty in 1911 ad.
विज्ञान और प्रौद्योगिकी during the Han काल saw significant advances, सहित papermaking, the nautical steering rudder, the उपयोग of negative संख्याएँ in गणित, the raised-relief map, the हाइड्रोलिक -powered armillary गोला लिये astronomy, और a seismometer employing an inverted pendulum.
Tourette syndrome ( also पुकारा tourette 's सिंड्रोम, Tourette 's विकार, गाइल्स de la Tourette सिंड्रोम, gts or, more commonly, simply tourette 's or ts ) is an inherited neuropsychiatric विकार साथ onset in बाल्यकाल, characterized by multiple physical ( motor ) tics and at least एक गायन ( phonic ) tic.
ये tics characteristically wax और wane, can be suppressed temporarily, और are preceded by a premonitory urge.
Tourette 's is पारिभाषित as भाग of a वर्णक्रम of tic disorders, जिससे includes transient और chronic tics.
Tourette 's थी एकबार माना a rare और विचित्र सिंड्रोम, सबसे प्रायः associated साथ the मुँह of obscene शब्द or socially अनुचित and अपमानजनक remarks ( coprolalia ), लकिन this symptom is उपस्थित in तभी a small अल्पसंख्यक of people with tourette 's.
tourette 's is no longer माना a rare condition, but it is not सदा correctly identified because सबसे cases are mild और the severity of tics decreases लिये most children as they pass through adolescence.
Between 0.4 % और 3.8 % of children आयु 5 to 18 may have Tourette 's ; the prevalence of क्षणिक और दीर्घकालिक tics in school-age children is higher, साथ the अधिक आम tics of eye blinking, coughing, throat clearing, sniffing, और facial movements.
चरम tourette 's in adulthood is a rarity, and Tourette 's करता not adversely affect intelligence or जीवन प्रत्याशा.
Genetic और पर्यावरणीय कारकों खेल a भूमिका in the etiology of Tourette 's, लकिन the सटीक कल्याणकारी are अनजान.
in सबसे cases, दवा is unnecessary.
There is no प्रभावी treatment for प्रत्येक case of tics, but निश्चित medications और therapies can सहायता जब their use is warranted.
शिक्षा is an important भाग of कोई उपचार योजना, और स्पष्टीकरण and reassurance अलोन हैं often sufficient उपचार.
comorbid शर्तें ( co-occurring diagnoses अन्य than Tourette 's ) such as attention-deficit अतिसक्रियता disorder ( adhd ) और obsessive–compulsive disorder ( OCD ) are present in many मरीजों seen in tertiary specialty क्लिनिक.
These other conditions often कारण more कार्यात्मक impairment to the individual than the tics that हैं the hallmark of tourette 's, hence it is महत्वपूर्ण to correctly identify comorbid conditions and दावत them.
the eponym थी bestowed by Jean-Martin charcot ( 1825–1893 ) on निमित्त of his निवासी, जॉर्जेस अल्बर्ट édouard Brutus गाइल्स de la Tourette ( 1859–1904 ), a फ्रेंच physician और neurologist, who प्रकाशित an account of nine मरीजों with Tourette 's in 1885.
Sunbeam badge.
सनबीम थी a marque पंजीकृत by John marston Co. ltd of wolverhampton, England, in 1888.
the company first बना bicycles, then motorcycles and गाड़ियाँ इससे the late 19th century until about 1936, और लागू the marque to all three फ़ॉर्म of transportation.
the कम्पनी भी manufactured aero इंजन in the पहला World War and 647 वायुयान during the दूसरी World युद्ध.
A Sunbeam was the first British car to win a ग्रैंड Prix race, और नियत a number of land गति records.
the company went into receivership in 1935 और was खरीदा by the Rootes समूह, जिससे continued to use the Sunbeam marque.
फॉक्स न्यूज चैनल ( fnc ), also ज्ञात as Fox न्यूज, is a केबल न्यूज चैनल owned by the Fox Entertainment Group, a subsidiary of News Corporation.
as of April 2009, the channel was उपलब्धियाँ to 102 million households in the संयुक्त राज्य and to viewers internationally, प्रसारण primarily इससे its New York studios.
The चैनल was created by Australian-American मीडिया mogul Rupert Murdoch, जो hired पूर्व NBC कार्यपालिका Roger ailes as its founding सीईओ.
it launched on October 7, 1996 to 17 million cable subscribers.
it grew during the late 1990s and 2000s to become the dominant केबल न्यूज network in the संयुक्त States.
आलोचकों have stated that Fox न्यूज चैनल promotes रूढ़िवादी political स्थितियाँ और पक्षपातपूर्ण reporting.
Commentators, न्यूज anchors, और reporters at Fox News Channel have responded that न्यूज reporting और राजनैतिक commentary operate independently of each other, and have denied any bias in न्यूज रिपोर्टिंग.
the mandibular first molar or six-year molar is the दाँत located distally ( away इससे the midline of the face ) from both the mandibular दूसरी premolars of the mouth but mesial ( toward the midline of the फेस ) इससे दोनो mandibular दूसरी molars.
It is located on the mandibular ( निम्नतर ) मेहराब of the मुँह, और generally opposes the maxillary ( upper ) first molars और the maxillary 2nd premolar in सामान्य क्लास i occlusion.
the फलन of this molar is similar to कि of all molars in लिहाज़ to grinding होने the principal action during mastication, commonly ज्ञात as chewing.
वहीँ are प्रायः पाँच well-developed cusps on mandibular पहला molars : two on the buccal ( side nearest the गाल ), दो lingual ( पक्ष निकटतम the tongue ), and one distal.
वहीँ हैं ग्रेट मतभेद between the deciduous ( baby ) mandibular molars and those of the permanent mandibular molars, भी though their फलन are समान.
the permanent mandibular molars are not माना to have कोई दांत कि precede it.
Despite being named molars, the deciduous molars हैं followed by स्थाई premolars.
In the सार्वभौमिक system of संकेतन, the पतझड़ी mandibular first molars हैं designated by a letter written in uppercase.
The सही deciduous mandibular first molar is ज्ञात as `` s '', and the बाएँ one is ज्ञात as `` L ''.
The international notation has a अलग system of संकेतन.
यूँ, the right deciduous mandibular पहला molar is ज्ञात as `` 84 '', and the बाएँ one is ज्ञात as `` 74 ''.
in the सार्वभौमिक system of संकेतन, the स्थाई mandibular first molars are designated by a number.
The सही स्थाई mandibular पहला molar is known as `` 30 '', और the बाएँ one is ज्ञात as `` 19 ''.
The Palmer संकेतन उपयोग a number in conjunction with a symbol designating in जिससे quadrant the दाँत is found.
लिये इस दाँत, the left and right first molars would have the वही number, `` 6 '', लकिन the right एक would have the symbol, `` ┐ '', over it, while the बाएँ one would have, `` ┌ ''.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय संकेतन रै a different क्रमांकन system than the पिछला two, and the सही permanent mandibular पहला molar is ज्ञात as `` 46 '', और the left एक is ज्ञात as `` 36 ''.
mandibular primary first molars प्रायः have four pulp horns.
the first molar is usually the first permanent tooth to erupt and रै adult undertones.
anatomy : The mandibular पहला molar has पाँच पुलिन : the mesiobuccal ( MB, toward midline and गाल ), mesiolingual ( ml, toward midline और tongue ), distolingual ( dl, दूर इससे midline and towards जीभ ), distobuccal ( DB, away इससे midline और toward cheek ), और distal ( d, away इससे midline ), listed in order of अवरोहण size.
सूचीबद्ध in अनुक्रम of अवरोहण ऊँचाई they are : ml, dl, DF, mf, and D. An eighth cusp was found in a primary second lower molar in an Argentinean चाइल्ड.
viewed from the top of the दाँत ( occlusal view ), the mandibular first molar is pentagonal ( पाँच तरफा ) in shape और tapers toward the lingual, साथ the sides being the buccal surface, the mesial surface, the lingual surface, distal surface, और the distobuccal सतह.
the occlusal सतह has चार डोले.
The सेंट्रल नाली is not straight but runs bas the center of the tooth mesially to distally और contains चार गड्ढों ( mesial, central, central, and distal ).
the distobuccal नाली runs इससे the distal pit in the सेंट्रल नाली distobuccally separating the distal and distobuccal पुलिन.
the lingual नाली runs from the अधिक distal of the सेंट्रल गड्ढों in the सेंट्रल नाली toward the lingual सतह between the mesiolingual and distolingual पुलिन.
the buccal नाली runs from the more mesial of the सेंट्रल pits in the सेंट्रल नाली toward the buccal surface between the mesiobuccal और distobuccal cusps समाप्ति in the buccal गड्ढे.
the portion of the central नाली between the सेंट्रल pits is termed the Lewis offset and is mandatory to खाता for the locations of the buccal और lingual grooves ( buccal नाली होने अधिक mesial than the lingual groove जबकि वे हैं समानांतर ).
From the buccal ( buccal दृश्य ), दो roots are present.
The distal root is generally straighter, although दोनो प्रायः have a slight distal curvature.
The हाइट्स of contour on the mesial और distal contact the सटा दांत और हैं स्तिथ at the जंक्शन of the occlusal and मध्य तिहाई of the crown.
The फ्लोरिडा Legislature is the two घरों कि अधिनियम as the state legislature of the U.S. state of Florida.
The फ्लोरिडा Constitution राज्य that `` The विधान शक्ति of the state shall be vested in a legislature of the राज्य of Florida, '' composed of a Senate and हाउस of Representatives.
The विधानमंडल is seated at the Florida राज्य Capitol in Tallahassee.
Stained glass depiction of डेनियल interceding साथ Arioch, the किंग 's guard.
Arioch था महरूम charged साथ killing सब the हिकमत मेन बाद वे यहूद not समर्थ to interpret Nebuchadnezzar 's dream.
डेनियल 2 is the second अध्याय of the किताब of Daniel in the यहूदी Bible.
the chapter 's source टेक्स्ट is predominantly लिखा in aramaic.
according to the टेक्स्ट, nebuchadnezzar is the king of बाबुल जो is troubled by his dreams.
He demands an interpretation लिये his dreams or will have his रहस्यवादी interpreters executed.
डेनियल seeks दैवी अक्ल to interpret the king 's dreams and गुणगान God साथ a छोटी psalm.
God देता Daniel a vision in the रात्रि to reveal the किंग 's सपना.
Able to satisfy the किंग, Daniel is प्रचारित over the पूरे प्रांत of बाबुल.
One comcast बीच, the headquarters of comcast in Philadelphia, PA.
The बूढ़ा Comcast logo इससे 1969 to 1999, when it थी replaced with the crescent logo.
the comcast निगम is an अमरीकी provider of entertainment, सूचना और communications उत्पाद और सेवाएं.
It is the largest cable operator, एक of the biggest द्रव्यमान media, home Internet सेवा provider, और third largest घर telephone सेवा provider in the United States, providing केबल television, broadband Internet, टेलीफोन service और in some क्षेत्रों home सुरक्षा ( सहित burglar alarms, surveillance कैमरे, fire alarm प्रणालियों and घर स्वचालन ) to दोनो residential and वाणिज्यिक ग्राहक in 40 states और the District of कोलंबिया.
the कम्पनी is headquartered in फिलाडेल्फिया, Pennsylvania.
In 2011, comcast acquired a 51 % बहुमत stake in मीडिया संगुटिका nbcuniversal इससे ge in January 2011, और began the प्रक्रम of खरीदना the remaining 49 % on फ़रवरी 12, 2013, at a cost of $ 16.7 अरब.
It समाप्त the purchase on कूच 19, 2013.
comcast also has significant पकड़कर in several cable संजाल ( सहित e !
entertainment Television, Style संजाल, G4, the Golf चैनल and एनबीसी खेल Network ), वितरण ( theplatform ), और सम्बन्धित व्यवसायों.
Comcast has महरूम the विषय of criticism लिये activities सहित its stance on जाल neutrality, as well as ग़रीब results on customer satisfaction surveys.
porcupines हैं rodents with a coat of sharp कांटे, or quills, कि बचाव और camouflage उन्हें from परभक्षी.
वे हैं indigenous to the Americas, southern Asia, and Africa.
porcupines हैं the तीसरा largest of the rodents, behind the capybara and the बीवर.
सबसे porcupines are परिचय long, साथ an long टेल.
weighing, they are rounded, विशाल and slow.
porcupines come in विभिन्न शेड्स of भूरा, gray, and the असामान्य श्वेत.
porcupines ' spiny सुरक्षा resembles कि of the unrelated erinaceomorph hedgehogs और monotreme echidnas.
The common porcupine is a herbivore.
It eats leaves, herbs, टहनियों और ग्रीन पौधे like skunk cabbage और clover और in the winter it may eat bark.
The North अमरीकी साही often climbs पेड़ to ढूँढें food.
The अफ़्रीकी porcupine is not a climber और forages on the मैदान.
It is ज़्यादातर nocturnal, लकिन होगा sometimes forage for food in the दिन.
porcupines have become a pest in Kenya और हैं खाया as a कोमलता.
the नाम porcupine आता इससे Middle French porc espin ( spined pig ).
A क्षेत्रीय अमरीकी name लिये the एनिमल is quill pig.
First पेज of us patent 129,843 लिये सुधार in Lubricators for steam-engines
Elijah J. McCoy ( may 2, 1844 – अक्तूबर 10, 1929 ) was a ब्लैक canadian-american आविष्कारक और engineer, जो थी notable लिये उसके 57 u.S. patents, सबसे to do साथ lubrication of भाप engines.
Born free in Canada, he लौटे as a five-year-old चाइल्ड with उसके परिवार to the United States in 1847, where he lived लिये the rest of उसके जीवन and became a US नागरिक.
होंडा fcx स्पष्टता, a हाइड्रोजन fuel cell demonstration गाडी introduced in 2008
a hydrogen गाडी is a गाडी that उपयोग हाइड्रोजन as its onboard fuel लिये motive शक्ति.
हाइड्रोजन vehicles शामिल हाइड्रोजन fueled space rockets, as well as automobiles and अन्य परिवहन वाहनों.
the power plants of such वाहनों convert the chemical energy of हाइड्रोजन to mechanical उर्जा either by burning हाइड्रोजन in an आतंरिक combustion engine, or by reacting हाइड्रोजन with ऑक्सीजन in a ईंधन cell to चलाएं electric मोटर्स.
Widespread use of hydrogen लिये fueling transportation is a कुंजी तत्व of a proposed हाइड्रोजन economy.
हाइड्रोजन fuel करता नहीं occur naturally on धरती and यूँ is not an energy source ; बल्कि it is an energy वाहक.
it is most frequently made इससे मिथेन or other चट्टान fuels, लकिन it can be उत्पादित using स्त्रोत ( ऐसे as हवा, सौर, or नाभिकीय ) कि are intermittent, too diffuse or too cumbersome to सीधे propel वाहनों.
Integrated wind-to-hydrogen पौधे, using electrolysis of water, हैं exploring technologies to deliver costs कम enough, and quantities ग्रेट पर्याप्त, to compete with परंपरागत energy स्त्रोत.
अनेक कंपनियाँ are working to develop technologies कि might efficiently exploit the संभावित of hydrogen उर्जा लिये मोबाईल uses.
the आकर्षण of using hydrogen as an energy currency is that, if हाइड्रोजन is prepared बगैर using fossil fuel inputs, गाडी propulsion would not contribute to carbon डाइऑक्साइड emissions.
The कमियां of hydrogen use are ऊँची पूंजी cost, कम energy सामग्री प्रति unit volume, high tankage weights, बहुत ऊँची storage vessel pressures, the भंडार, परिवहन और filling of gaseous or liquid हाइड्रोजन in वाहनों, the विशाल investment in अवसंरचना कि would be required to fuel vehicles, and the inefficiency of production प्रक्रियाओं.
Sacramento is the पूंजी city of the U.S. state of कैलिफ़ोर्निया and the सीट of government of sacramento County.
It is स्तिथ at the confluence of the sacramento River and the American River in the northern portion of कैलिफ़ोर्निया 's expansive Central घाटी.
With an अनुमानित 2011 जनसांख्यिकी of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest नगर in कैलिफ़ोर्निया and the 35th largest city in the United States.
Sacramento is the कोर cultural and economic बीच of the Sacramento महानगर area which includes seven counties साथ an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123.
इसके महानगर क्षेत्रफल is the चौथी largest in कैलिफ़ोर्निया after the Greater लॉस Angeles Area, San फ्रांसिस्को Bay क्षेत्रफल, और the San डिएगो metropolitan क्षेत्रफल, as well as the 25th largest in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Sacramento was cited by समय पत्रिका as America 's सबसे ethnically और racially integrated नगर in 2002.
sacramento became a नगर through the efforts of the स्विस immigrant John sutter, sr., his बेटे जॉन sutter, jr., and James W. मार्शल.
Sacramento grew जल्दी धन्यवाद to the सुरक्षा of Sutter 's Fort, जिससे was established by Sutter in 1839.
During the California सुनहरा फटाफट, Sacramento was a प्रमुख distribution पाइंट, a commercial and agricultural बीच, and a टर्मिनस for वैगन रेल, stagecoaches, riverboats, the telegraph, the टट्टू Express, और the पहला Transcontinental रेलरोड.
कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य University, sacramento, more commonly ज्ञात as sacramento State or सैक राज्य, is the largest local university.
it is one of the twenty-three campuses of the California राज्य University system.
drexel University Sacramento is स्तिथ in शहर, sacramento.
University of the Pacific 's mcgeorge School of Law is स्तिथ in the Oak पार्क पड़ोस.
in addition, the विश्वविद्यालयों of California, डेविस is स्तिथ in आसपास Davis, west of the पूंजी.
the UC डेविस Medical बीच, a world-renowned शोध hospital, is located in the city of sacramento.
The ठहराना स्टोर is a कड़ी of खुदरा स्टोर्स owned और संचालित by ठहराना inc., dealing in कंप्यूटर और consumer electronics.
The स्टोर्स sell Macintosh निजी computers, तन्त्र, ipods, iPads, iPhones, third-party accessories, और अन्य उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स such as Apple TV.
Some ऊँची profile स्टोर्स विशेषता a थिएटर लिये प्रस्तुतियों and workshops और a Studio for प्रशिक्षण with Apple उत्पाद ; all स्टोर्स प्रस्ताव a प्रतिभाशाली Bar लिये तकनीकी support और repairs, as खूब as फ़्री वर्कशॉप available to the पब्लिक.
Under the नेतृत्व of रॉन जॉनसन, the former वरिष्ठ Vice President of Retail परिचालन, the ठहराना स्टोर्स have, according to an आलेख in the नई York टाइम्स, been responsible लिये `` [ turning ] the उबाऊ computer sales मंजिल into a sleek playroom भर with गैजेट ''.
, ठहराना has 405 स्टोर्स विश्वव्यापी, साथ वैश्विक बिक्री of अरब in merchandise in 2011, और वे सीसे the संयुक्त राज्य खुदरा market in terms of बिक्री प्रति ईकाई area.
स्टीवन Paul `` Steve '' कार्य ( ; फ़रवरी 24, 1955 – October 5, 2011 ) was an American entrepreneur and आविष्कारक, best ज्ञात as the co-founder, अध्यक्ष, और CEO of ठहराना Inc.
through ठहराना, he थी widely recognized as a charismatic pioneer of the निजी computer revolution और लिये उसके influential करियर in the कंप्यूटर and consumer electronics fields, transforming `` एक उद्योग after another, इससे computers and smartphones to म्यूज़िक and फिल्मों... ''
कार्य भी co-founded और परोसा as chief कार्यपालिका of Pixar Animation Studios ; he became a member of the फलक of directors of the वॉल्ट Disney कम्पनी in 2006, when Disney acquired Pixar.
Jobs थी among the first to देखिए the commercial संभावित of Xerox parc 's चूहा -ड्राइवn आलेखीय user interface, which led to the सृष्टि of the Apple Lisa and, one साल later, the मैकिंटोश.
he also निभाई a role in introducing the laserwriter, one of the first widely available laser मुद्रक, to the मार्केट.
बाद a power struggle with the फलक of directors in 1985, Jobs बाएँ Apple and संस्थापित अगला, a कंप्यूटर platform development कम्पनी specializing in the higher-education and कारोबार बाज़ार.
in 1986, he acquired the कंप्यूटर graphics division of Lucasfilm, which थी spun बंद as पिक्चर्स.
he थी credited in Toy स्टोरी ( 1995 ) as an executive निर्माता.
he served as सीईओ and बहुमत shareholder until डिज़्नी 's purchase of पिक्चर्स in 2006.
In 1996, बाद Apple था failed to deliver इसके ऑपरेटिंग system, copland, Gil amelio turned to NeXT Computer, और the nextstep मंच became the न्यास for the Mac OS X.
Jobs लौटे to ठहराना as an advisor, और took कंट्रोल of the company as an अंतरिम CEO.
Jobs brought ठहराना इससे near दिवालियापन to profitability by 1998.
As the नई CEO of the company, कार्य oversaw the development of the imac, iTunes, ipod, iphone, और ipad, and on the सेवाएं side, the company 's Apple खुदरा स्टोर्स, iTunes स्टोर and the app Store.
the कामयाबी of ये उत्पाद और services provided several years of stable financial returns, और propelled ठहराना to become the संसार 's सबसे मूल्यवान publicly traded कम्पनी in 2011.
the reinvigoration of the कम्पनी is regarded by many टीकाकारों as one of the महानतम turnarounds in कारोबार history.
in 2003, कार्य was diagnosed साथ a अग्न्याशय neuroendocrine ट्यूमर.
Though it was initially treated, he reported a हार्मोन असंतुलन, underwent a liver transplant in 2009, and appeared progressively thinner as his स्वास्थ्य अस्वीकृत.
On medical leave for most of 2011, Jobs resigned in अगस्त कि year, और was elected अध्यक्ष of the Board.
He died of respiratory गिरफ़्तार related to उसके metastatic tumor on अक्तूबर 5, 2011.
Jobs received a number of honors और पब्लिक recognition लिये उसके influence in the technology and म्यूज़िक industries.
he has been referred to as `` legendary '', a `` futurist '' or बस `` दूरदर्शी '', and रै been described as the `` Father of the Digital Revolution '', a `` master of नवीनता '', और a `` डिज़ाइन perfectionist ''.
प्रवेश to खण्ड ( 52 ) of the कोलोसियम, with numerals स्टिल दृश्य
Roman numerals, the न्यूमेरिक प्रणाली in प्राचीन रोम, uses combinations of letters इससे the लैटिन alphabet to signify मान.
the numbers 1 to 10 can be expressed in रोमन numerals as follows:
and.
the Roman numeral प्रणाली is a cousin of Etruscan numerals.
Use of Roman numerals continued बाद the decline of the रोमन साम्राज्य.
From the 14th century on, Roman numerals began to be replaced in सबसे contexts by अधिक convenient Hindu-Arabic numerals ; however इस प्रक्रम थी क्रमिक, and the उपयोग of Roman numerals in some minor applications continues to this दिन.
प्रभावी Nuclear Charge Diagram
the प्रभावी नाभिकीय चार्ज ( प्रायः symbolize as or Z* ) is the net positive charge experienced by an इलेक्ट्रॉन in a multi-electron अणु.
the पद `` effective '' is प्रयुक्त क्युकी the shielding प्रभाव of negatively charged electrons prevents higher orbital electrons from experiencing the full नाभिकीय चार्ज by the repelling प्रभाव of inner-layer electrons.
The effective nuclear charge experienced by the outer शेल इलेक्ट्रॉन is also called the core charge.
it is possible to determine the शक्ति of the nuclear चार्ज by looking at the oxidation क्रमांक of the atom.
इस is a सूची of एपीसोड इससे the Discovery Channel श्रेणी, तूफ़ान chasers.
a rural stretch of I-5, with दो गलियों in each direction अलग by a विशाल grassy मध्य, और साथ cross-traffic limited to overpasses and underpasses
the ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर नेशनल System of Interstate and Defense Highways ( commonly ज्ञात as the Interstate Highway System, Interstate Freeway प्रणाली, Interstate System, or simply the अंतरराज्यीय ) is a संजाल of freeways कि फ़ॉर्म a part of the नेशनल Highway प्रणाली of the संयुक्त States.
the प्रणाली is नामित for President ड्वाइट D. Eisenhower, who championed इसके formation.
Construction थी प्राधिकृत by the Federal Aid Highway Act of 1956, और the असली portion थी completed 35 सालो बाद.
the संजाल has since महरूम विस्तारित, और, it था a कुल लंबाई of, बनाना it the world 's second longest after China 's., about one-quarter of सब गाडी मील driven in the country use the अंतरराज्यीय प्रणाली.
The cost of construction रै महरूम अनुमानित at $ 425 billion ( in 2006 dollars ), बनाना it the `` largest public works program since the पिरामिडों ``.
the system has contributed in shaping the संयुक्त States into a संसार आर्थिक महाशक्ति and a अत्यधिक industrialized स्वदेश.
.eu is the country कोड top-level domain ( cctld ) लिये the European संघ ( EU ).
शुभारम्भ on 7 दिसम्बर 2005, the domain is available for संगठनों in और निवासियों of eu सदस्य states.
the TLD is administered by EURid, a consortium originally consisting of the नेशनल ccTLD registry operators of Belgium, Sweden, and Italy, joined बाद by the नेशनल रजिस्ट्री ऑपरेटर of the Czech Republic.
Trademark स्वामी यहूद समर्थ to submit registrations through a sunrise काल, in an प्रयत्न to prevent cybersquatting.
Full पंजीकरण started on 7 April 2006.
Meister means master in German ( as in निपुण craftsman, or as an honorific शीर्षक such as meister Eckhart ).
the शब्द is akin to maestro.
In खेल, Meister is प्रयुक्त for the वर्तमान नेशनल, यूरोपीय or संसार चैंपियन ( Deutscher meister, *europameister, weltmeister ).
Many आधुनिक day जर्मनी पुलिस forces use the title Meister.
दौरान the दूसरी World युद्ध, Meister was the highest enlisted rank of the ordnungspolizei.
meister रै been उधार into अंग्रेज़ी slang, where it is प्रयुक्त in compound nouns.
A person referred to as “meister” is एक जो रै extensive theoretical knowledge और practical skills in his profession, business, or some अन्य दयालु of work or कार्यकलाप.
For example, a “puzzle-meister” would be someone highly skilled at solving पहेलियाँ.
These neologisms sometimes have a sarcastic intent ( for उदाहरण, “stubble-meister” लिये किसी साथ a short, neat दाढ़ी or “crier-meister” for किसी who प्रायः cries ).
mighty Morphin Power रेंजरों is an American live-action children 's टेलीविज़न series परिचय teenagers साथ super-powers, आधारित on the 16th installment of the जापानी Super sentai franchise, kyōryū Sentai zyuranger.
Both the show और इसके related merchandise देखी unbridled overnight कामयाबी, बनने a स्टेपल of 1990s पॉप संस्कृति in mere महीने.
अंतर्गत the original नाम, `` mighty Morphin शक्ति रेंजरों '' the श्रेणी ran इससे 1993 to 1995 और spawned the feature फिल्मी mighty morphin शक्ति रेंजरों : the फिल्म.
The दूसरी and तीसरा seasons of the दिखाएँ खींचा on footage and तत्व from the Super Sentai श्रेणी gosei Sentai dairanger और निंजा sentai Kakuranger respectively, हालांकि the zyuranger costumes were स्टिल प्रयुक्त for the पाँच main Rangers और several regular खलनायक.
तभी the mecha और the kiba रेंजर वेशभूषा ( worn by the श्वेत रेंजर ) were retained इससे dairanger for the दूसरी ऋतु, जबकि तभी the mecha इससे kakuranger were featured in the third season.
However the kakuranger वेशभूषा यहूद later used for the शीर्षक characters of the mini-series, Mighty Morphin Alien Rangers.
the series was उत्पादित by MMPR प्रोडक्शन्स, distributed by saban Entertainment, और aired on फॉक्स बच्चे.
the दिखाएँ 's merchandise थी produced और वितरित by बंदाई entertainment.
In 1996, the series was rebranded as the Power रेंजरों franchise ; renaming the series प्रत्येक year बाद, and using वेशभूषा, props, and footage इससे subsequent Super Sentai श्रेणी, as well as बदलना the डाल and storyline.
जबकि an overarching storyline would continue जबतक Power Rangers खोया Galaxy, subsequent श्रेणी after mmpr are नहीं sequels or spin-offs in the traditional भाव.
In 2010, a re-version of mighty Morphin Power Rangers, with a नई लोगो, comic book-referenced ग्राफिक्स, and extra alternative special प्रभाव, was broadcast on ABC बच्चे, and बंदाई उत्पादित ब्रांड new toys to coincide with the श्रेणी.
Edgar allan पो ( born एडगर पो ; जनवरी 19, 1809 – अक्तूबर 7, 1849 ) was an American author, कवि, editor और literary critic, माना part of the अमरीकी रोमांटिक Movement.
Best ज्ञात for his किस्से of रहस्य and the macabre, Poe थी एक of the earliest American practitioners of the छोटी स्टोरी और is generally माना the आविष्कारक of the detective fiction genre.
He is further credited with contributing to the उभरते genre of विज्ञान fiction.
he थी the पहला well-known अमरीकी लेखक to कोशिश to earn a जीना through writing alone, resulting in a financially difficult जीवन and career.
he थी born as Edgar Poe in Boston, मैसाचुसेट्स ; he थी orphaned यंग जब उसके mother died shortly after his पिता abandoned the family.
पो थी taken in by जॉन और frances Allan, of Richmond, वर्जिनिया, but they never formally adopted उसे.
he attended the विश्वविद्यालयों of Virginia लिये one semester लकिन बाएँ due to कमी of money.
बाद enlisting in the Army और बाद failing as an officer 's cadet at West पाइंट, Poe parted तरीके साथ the Allans.
His प्रकाशन करियर began विनम्रतापूर्वक, with an anonymous संग्रहण of कविताएं, Tamerlane और अन्य कविताएं ( 1827 ), credited only to `` a Bostonian ''.
पो switched his focus to prose and खर्च the next several years working for literary जर्नल्स और periodicals, becoming known लिये his अपना style of साहित्यिक आलोचना.
उसके work forced him to move among अनेक शहरों, सहित बाल्टीमोर, फिलाडेल्फिया, and New York City.
In बाल्टीमोर in 1835, he married Virginia clemm, उसके 13-year-old cousin.
in January 1845 Poe प्रकाशित उसके poem, `` The रेवेन ``, to तत्काल कामयाबी.
His wife died of तपेदिक दो years after its प्रकाशन.
he began planning to produce his own journal, The penn ( बाद renamed The Stylus ), though he died before it could be produced.
on अक्तूबर 7, 1849, at age 40, Poe died in बाल्टीमोर ; the cause of उसके मौत is unknown और रै been variously attributed to alcohol, brain जमघट, हैजा, दवाएँ, heart disease, rabies, suicide, tuberculosis, और other एजेंटों.
पो and his works बहकावे literature in the United States और around the world, as well as in specialized fields, such as cosmology and cryptography.
Poe and उसके work appear throughout popular संस्कृति in साहित्य, म्यूज़िक, films, और television.
A क्रमांक of उसके homes are समर्पित संग्रहालय today.
the रहस्य लेखक of अमेरिका present an सालाना award known as the एडगर पुरस्कार लिये distinguished work in the रहस्य genre.
Lions हैं obligate carnivores ; वे आवश्यकता up to सात kilograms ( 15 lbs ) of meat प्रति दिन.
a major घटक of their आहार is the flesh of विशाल स्तनधारियों, like this अफ़्रीकी भैंस.
A carnivore ( ) अर्थ 'meat भक्षक ' ( Latin, caro meaning 'meat ' or 'flesh ' और vorare अर्थ 'to devour ' ) is an सजीव कि derives इसके energy और nutrient आवश्यकताएँ from a आहार consisting मुख्यतः or exclusively of animal tissue, whether through predation or scavenging.
Animals कि depend solely on एनिमल flesh लिये their nutrient आवश्यकताएँ are considered carnivores जबकि those that भी consume non-animal food are considered carnivores.
Omnivores भी consume both animal और non-animal food, and अलावा from the अधिक general परिभाषा, वहीँ is no clearly पारिभाषित अनुपात of संयंत्र to animal सामग्री कि would फर्क a facultative carnivore from an omnivore.
A carnivore कि sits at the top of the foodchain is an apex predator.
Plants कि capture और डाइजेस्ट कीट हैं पुकारा carnivorous plants.
similarly, fungi कि capture microscopic पशु हैं प्रायः called मांसाहारी fungi.
The FIFA World Cup, प्रायः simply the संसार Cup, is an international association फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिता लडे by the वरिष्ठ मेन 's national टीमों of the सदस्यों of Fédération Internationale de Football संघ ( फीफा ), the खेल 's global governing body.
the चैंपियनशिप has महरूम awarded प्रत्येक चार years चूंकि the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1930, मगर in 1942 और 1946 जब it थी not आयोजित because of the Second संसार युद्ध.
The वर्तमान champions हैं स्पेन, who won the 2010 tournament.
the वर्तमान format of the टूर्नामेंट involves 32 teams competing लिये the title at venues within the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a काल of about a माह ; this phase is प्रायः पुकारा the World कप Finals.
A योग्यता phase, जिससे फिलहाल takes place over the preceding three सालो, is प्रयुक्त to determine which टीमों qualify for the tournament साथ with the मेजबान nation ( s ).
The 19 World Cup tournaments have been जीती by आठ different national teams.
Brazil have won five times, और they are the only टोली to have played in प्रत्येक टूर्नामेंट.
the अन्य संसार कप winners are इटली, साथ चार titles ; Germany, साथ three शीर्षक ; अर्जेंटीना and inaugural विजेता उरुग्वे, with two शीर्षक प्रत्येक ; and इंग्लैण्ड, France, and स्पेन, with एक शीर्षक each.
The संसार Cup is the संसार 's most widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1 लाख लोगों watched the फाइनल match of the 2006 FIFA World कप आयोजित in जर्मनी.
The अगला three संसार Cups will be hosted by Brazil in 2014, Russia in 2018, and क़तर in 2022.
Heroes is an अमरीकी विज्ञान fiction टेलीविज़न नाटक श्रेणी created by Tim क्रिंग that appeared on एनबीसी for four सीज़न from सितंबर 25, 2006 through February 8, 2010.
the series tells the stories of ordinary लोगों who discover superhuman abilities, and कैसा ये abilities take प्रभाव in the वर्ण ' lives.
the series emulates the aesthetic स्टाइल and storytelling of अमरीकी कॉमिक किताबे, using multi-episode story arcs कि निर्माण upon a larger, more encompassing arc.
the श्रेणी थी उत्पादित by Tailwind प्रोडक्शन्स in संघ with सार्वभौमिक मीडिया Studios.
it थी filmed primarily in Los Angeles, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
चार पूरा seasons aired, समाप्ति on February 8, 2010.
The critically acclaimed पहला season था a run of 23 एपीसोड and garnered an औसत of 14.3 लाख viewers in the United राज्य, receiving the उच्चतम rating लिये an एनबीसी drama प्रीमियर in पाँच सालो.
The second season of Heroes attracted an average of 13.1 लाख viewers in the u.S., and चिह्नित एनबीसी 's sole series among the top 20 क्रमित programs in total viewership लिये the 2007–2008 season.
Heroes रै earned a क्रमांक of पुरस्कार and nominations, सहित Primetime Emmy Awards, सुनहरी Globes, लोगों 's Choice पुरस्कार and अंग्रेजों Academy Television पुरस्कार.
An online एक्सटेंशन of the series, Heroes 360 अनुभव, later rebranded as Heroes evolutions, थी निर्मित to explore the Heroes ब्रह्मांड and provides insight into the दिखाएँ 's mythology.
अन्य official Heroes मीडिया शामिल मैगज़ीन, कार्रवाई figures, tie-in and इंटरैक्टिव websites, a मोबाईल game, a novel, clothing and अन्य merchandise.
in the fall of 2008, NBC डिजिटल Entertainment released a श्रेणी of online content for the summer, including more original वेब सामग्री, बेतार आईटीवी interactivity, ग्राफिक novels उपलब्धियाँ लिये mobile देखने और webisodes.
NBC announced Heroes रद्दीकरण on may 14, 2010.
afterward, the संजाल considered making a television खास इवेंट to conclude the series ; however, on September 9, 2010, NBC घोषित the decision to रोकें कोई further विकास of the नायक मताधिकार.
Tim क्रिंग then सुझाया कि the broad आधार of नायक storylines अनुमत लिये the franchise to वापसी for प्रशंसक, लकिन he did not बताएँ when or in what मीडिया स्वरूप.
On April 17, 2013, TV Line reported कि एमएसएन was in talks to revive the श्रेणी साथ a नई cast.
जॉन Pierpont `` J. P. ''
मॉर्गन ( अप्रैल 17, 1837 – कूच 31, 1913 ) थी an अमरीकी फाइनेंसर, banker, philanthropist and आर्ट कलेक्टर who वर्चस्व कॉरपोरेट finance and industrial consolidation during his time.
in 1892 Morgan arranged the merger of Edison General Electric और Thomson-Houston Electric Company to रूप सामान्य Electric.
After financing the सृष्टि of the संघीय स्टील कम्पनी, he merged in 1901 with the Carnegie Steel कम्पनी and several other steel और आयरन व्यवसायों, सहित Consolidated Steel और तार Company owned by विलियम Edenborn, to रूप the संयुक्त राज्य स्टील Corporation.
मॉर्गन died in Rome, Italy, in उसके नींद in 1913 at the आयु of 75, leaving his सौभाग्य and कारोबार to his बेटे, John Pierpont `` जोकर '' मॉर्गन, Jr., और bequeathing his mansion and विशाल किताब collections to The मॉर्गन पुस्तकालयों & संग्रहालय in नई यॉर्क.
At the height of Morgan 's करियर दौरान the early 1900s, he and उसके partners था financial निवेश in many large corporations and were accused by आलोचकों of controlling the nation 's ऊँची वित्त.
He निर्देशित the banking गठबन्धन कि रोका the दहशत of 1907.
He थी the अग्रणी फाइनेंसर of the Progressive Era, and उसके समर्पण to efficiency and modernization helped transform American कारोबार.
इस is a list of episodes of the टेलीविज़न series.
The episodes यहूद निर्देशित by Shigeru Ueda और उत्पादित by the yggdrasil Executive Committee जिससे शामिल xebec and Genco.
The प्लाट of the एपीसोड is set in टोकियो और घूमती around रिन asōgi, an immortal private investigator, as she explores the रहस्य of आधुनिक और near-future संसार और the अलौकिक कार्यक्रम that surround the fictional society of immortals जैसे herself.
There are विशाल समय गैप in the आतंरिक chronology between the first पाँच एपीसोड, ranging from एक to thirty सालो.
The छह episodes यहूद broadcast मासिक on AT-X channel in जापानी, between फ़रवरी 3 and जुलाई 6, 2008.
प्रत्येक episode is 45 minutes long.
Two टुकड़े of theme म्यूज़िक are used लिये the episodes : the खोलने theme `` Alsatia '' और the समाप्ति थीम `` कारण Disarray ''.
दोनो were composed and performed by the Japanese मेटल band Galneryus.
the series थी produced to commemorate the दसवाँ anniversary of the AT-X network it originally aired on.
Aerial फ़ोटो of fletc, where us डिजिटल forensics मानकों were विकसित in the 1980s and '90s
Digital forensics ( sometimes ज्ञात as डिजिटल forensic विज्ञान ) is a शाखा of forensic विज्ञान encompassing the recovery और investigation of material found in डिजिटल devices, प्रायः in संबंध to कंप्यूटर crime.
the पद डिजिटल forensics was originally used as a synonym लिये कंप्यूटर forensics लकिन रै विस्तारित to कवर छानबीन of सब devices सक्षम of storing digital आंकड़ा.
With roots in the निजी computing क्रान्ति of the late 1970s और जल्दी '80s, the discipline विकसित in a haphazard manner during the 1990s, and it was नहीं जबतक the early 21st century कि नेशनल नीतियों emerged.
Digital forensics investigations have a variety of अनुप्रयोग.
the सबसे आम is to support or refute a hypothesis before criminal or सिविल ( as part of the electronic डिस्कवरी process ) न्यायालयों.
forensics may also feature in the निजी सेक्टर ; such as during internal कॉरपोरेट investigations or intrusion investigation ( a विशेषज्ञ probe into the nature और extent of an unauthorized network intrusion ).
the technical पहलू of an investigation is विभाजित into several sub-branches, relating to the type of डिजिटल डिवाइस involved ; कंप्यूटर forensics, संजाल forensics, forensic data analysis and mobile device forensics.
the typical forensic प्रक्रम encompasses the seizure, forensic इमेजिंग ( अधिग्रहण ) and विश्लेषण of digital media और the production of a रपट into collected प्रमाण.
As खूब as identifying direct evidence of a अपराधों, डिजिटल forensics can be प्रयुक्त to attribute evidence to specific suspects, confirm alibis or कथन, determine intent, पहचानो स्त्रोत ( लिये example, in copyright मामले ), or authenticate documents.
Investigations are much broader in पैमाना than अन्य areas of forensic analysis ( जहाँ the usual उद्देश्य is to provide answers to a श्रेणी of simpler questions ) often involving complex time-lines or hypotheses.
A comparison of the chromaticities enclosed by कुछ color स्पेसेस.
a रंग मॉडल is an अमूर्त गणितीय model describing the way colors can be represented as tuples of numbers, typically as तीन or चार values or रंग components ( e.g. आरजीबी and CMYK are color models ).
however, a रंग model with no संबद्ध mapping फलन to an absolute रंग स्पेस is a more or less arbitrary color प्रणाली with no connection to कोई globally understood system of रंग interpretation.
adding a निश्चित मानचित्रण function between the color model और a निश्चित reference color स्पेस results in a definite `` पदचिह्न '' within the reference रंग स्पेस.
इस `` पदचिह्न '' is known as a gamut, and, in combination with the रंग मॉडल, defines a new रंग स्पेस.
For उदाहरण, Adobe आरजीबी and srgb हैं two different absolute रंग स्पेसेस, दोनो based on the आरजीबी model.
in the सबसे जेनेरिक sense of the definition ऊपर, रंग स्पेसेस can be defined बगैर the use of a रंग model.
These spaces, such as Pantone, हैं in प्रभाव a दिए set of names or संख्याएँ which हैं पारिभाषित by the अस्तित्व of a सम्बन्धित set of physical रंग swatches.
इस article focuses on the गणितीय मॉडल अवधारणा.
मजदूर दिन is an अमरीकी federal अवकाश observed on the पहला Monday in सितंबर, that celebrates the economic and social contributions of workers.
Life बीमे is a contract between an insured ( बीमे नीति होल्डर ) and an insurer, जहाँ the insurer वादे to अदा a designated beneficiary a sum of money ( the `` लाभ '' ) upon the मौत of the insured person.
depending on the अनुबंध, अन्य events such as terminal illness or नाजुक illness may भी ट्रिगर payment.
the नीति होल्डर typically pays a प्रीमियम, either regularly or as a lump योग.
अन्य खर्च ( ऐसे as अंत्येष्टि खर्च ) हैं also sometimes included in the लाभ.
Life नीतियों हैं legal contracts and the शर्तें of the अनुबंध describe the limitations of the insured events.
Specific exclusions हैं प्रायः written into the contract to सीमा the liability of the insurer ; common उदाहरण हैं claims relating to आत्महत्या, fraud, war, riot and सिविल commotion.
Life-based अनुबंध tend to पतन into दो प्रमुख categories:
Protection policies – designed to provide a benefit in the event of specified event, typically a lump योग payment.
A आम form of इस design is पद बीमे.
निवेश नीतियों – where the प्रमुख उद्देश्य is to सुकर the growth of पूंजी by नियमित or सिंगल premiums.
आम forms ( in the US ) are whole जीवन, universal जीवन and variable जीवन नीतियों.
{ { infobox Holiday
चाइनीज New साल
9 – 12 February ( Vietnam )
mitzi gaynor Donahue ( born May 2, 1962 in Yorba लिंडा, Orange काउंटी, California ) is an American अभिनेत्री, भी credited and more popularly ज्ञात as Mitzi Kapture.
Kapture began her career in films, most of जिससे were not huge commercial successes.
She गई on to make a few television guest appearances ( MacGyver, 1st & टेन, और as a प्रतियोगी on the $ 100,000 Pyramid ) before she gained international एक्सपोज़र साथ her पहला प्रमुख television role as Sergeant रीता Lee Lance in the टेलीविज़न series रेशा stalkings.
kapture 's role as रीता, the other half of the two `` Sams '' लिये लगभग 5 years, cemented उसके लोकप्रियता.
युग्म साथ Rob Estes जो निभाई सार्जेंट क्रिस lorenzo, Kapture gained वैश्विक recognition साथ साथ उसके costar चूंकि the show थी ब्रॉडकास्ट in अनेक देशों.
सार्जेंट तलवार eventually became लेफ्टिनेंट तलवार by the समय Kapture बाएँ the श्रेणी in 1995 to have her first child Madison.
During her समय साथ the series, Kapture briefly sat in the निदेशक 's कुर्सी, लिये दो episodes.
She थी interviewed लिये the Silk stalkings Season 1 dvd which was वितरित by Anchor Bay entertainment and released in September 2004.
After a छोटी अंतराल from the screen following उसके निकास from रेशा stalkings, Kapture लौटे in 1997 to the छोटी स्क्रीन और यूएसए Network.
She played lead roles in दो यूएसए Pictures Originals telemovies, पूर्ण Crime ( आधारित on a सच्चा स्टोरी, भी called Hide and तलाश : the जोआन जेन्सेन Story ), which भी starred चमेली Guy और उसके अंगरक्षक.
वो later starred in a few अन्य स्वतंत्र film projects और theatre productions और था several television अतिथि दिखावे.
Kapture भी had a पुनरावर्ती भूमिका on Baywatch as Alexis ryker.
She निभाई Anita होजेस on the यंग और the बेचैन इससे 2002 through 2004, where she थी credited as mitzi Kapture donahue, और starred in the made-for-tv movie Night of आतंक जिससे premiered कूच 26, 2006 on Lifetime संजाल.
उसके latest is a supporting role in परमेश्वर 's Ears, released in 2007.
Kapture is the आधिकारिक हस्ती spokesperson for the Xeroderma Pigmentosum समाज.
The एक्सबॉक्स 360 is the दूसरी वीडियो game कंसोल विकसित by और produced लिये Microsoft and the successor to the Xbox.
The Xbox 360 competes साथ सोनी 's प्लेस्टेशन 3 and निन्टेंडो 's वी as part of the seventh पीढी of वीडियो खेल consoles.
As of सितंबर 30, 2012, 70 लाख Xbox 360 consoles have महरूम sold विश्वव्यापी.
the Xbox 360 was officially unveiled on एमटीवी on may 12, 2005, with विस्तृत लॉन्च and game सूचना divulged बाद that month at the इलेक्ट्रॉनिक entertainment एक्सपो ( E3 ).
the कंसोल sold आउट completely upon रिलीज in all regions except in जापानी.
अनेक major features of the Xbox 360 are its एकीकृत Xbox Live सेवा that allows खिलाड़ी to compete online ; download आर्केड खेल, खेल demos, trailers, tv shows, म्यूज़िक और फिल्मों ; और इसके खिड़कियाँ मीडिया बीच मल्टीमीडिया सामर्थ्य.
the एक्सबॉक्स Live also offers access to विभिन्न ( प्रायः region-specific ) third-party media streaming अनुप्रयोग.
at उनके e3 presentation on June 14, 2010, microsoft घोषित a redesigned Xbox 360 कि would ship on the वही दिन.
The redesigned console is slimmer than the पिछला एक्सबॉक्स 360 मॉडल and सुविधाएँ एकीकृत 802.11 b/g/n Wi-Fi, toslink s/pdif optical audio आउटपुट, पाँच usb 2.0 ports ( compared to the three इससे पुरानी संस्करण ) and a खास AUX port.
पुरानी models of the Xbox 360 have चूंकि been discontinued.
the पहला नई कंसोल to be released features a 250 gb hard ड्राइव, जबकि a बाद, कम महंगी SKU सुविधाएँ 4 GB आतंरिक भंडार.
backpack may also refer to a 2001 अनोखा by एमिली Barr
A modern backpack
Swiss army backpack ca. 1960
Integrated bearer फ़्रेम.
A backpack ( also पुकारा रूकसाक, knapsack, packsack, पैक ) is, in its simplest form, a cloth sack carried on एक 's वापस और secured with दो straps that go over the कन्धों, लकिन there can be अपवाद.
Lightweight प्रकार of backpacks are sometimes worn on only one कंधे डोरी.
Backpacks are प्रायः preferred to हैंडबैग for carrying heavy loads or carrying कोई sort of उपकरण, because of the सीमित capacity to carry heavy weights for long अवधि of समय in the hands.
Large backpacks, used to carry loads over 10 kg ( 22 lbs ), usually offload the largest part ( up to परिचय 90 % ) of उनके वज़न onto padded hip बेल्ट, leaving the shoulder straps मुख्यतः लिये stabilising the लोड.
इस improves the संभावित to carry भारी loads, as the hips are stronger than the shoulders, और भी increases agility और संतुलन, since the load यात्राएँ nearer the wearer 's own center of द्रव्यमान.
In ancient टाइम्स, the backpack थी used as a अर्थात् to carry the शिकारी 's larger खेल and अन्य types of prey and as a रास्ता of easier हस्तांतरण for अन्य सामग्री.
In the cases of larger hunts, the hunters होता dismember उनके शिकार and distribute the टुकड़े of the एनिमल around, प्रत्येक एक packing the meat into many wrappings और तब into bags which वे placed on to their backs.
the थैला itself was made up of अलग animal छुपा and स्किन ( depending on what sorts of पशु were in the क्षेत्रफल ) and sewn together by the आंतों of कहा पशु, which were woven साथ tightly to मेक a sturdy thread-like material.
मैक्सिको ( ; ; ), officially the संयुक्त मैक्सिकन States ( ), is a federal संवैधानिक गणतंत्र in North America.
It is bordered on the north by the संयुक्त States ; on the दक्षिण and west by the Pacific समंदर ; on the southeast by ग्वाटेमाला, Belize, and the Caribbean समुद्र ; और on the east by the गल्फ of मैक्सिको.
covering almost दो million square kilometres ( over 760,000 sq mi ), मैक्सिको is the fifth largest देश in the Americas by कुल क्षेत्रफल and the 13th largest independent nation in the world.
With an estimated जनसांख्यिकी of over 113 million, it is the संसार 's eleventh सबसे populous देश and the most populous Spanish-speaking country.
Mexico is a federation comprising thirty-one राज्य और a संघीय ज़िला, the capital नगर.
in pre-Columbian मैक्सिको अनेक cultures matured into advanced सभ्यताओं such as the Olmec, the toltec, the teotihuacan, the zapotec, the माया और the Aztec पहले पहला contact with europeans.
In 1521, स्पेन conquered और colonized the territory from its base in méxico-tenochtitlan, which was administered as the Viceroyalty of नई Spain.
इस territory would eventually become मैक्सिको following मान्यता of the उपनिवेश 's स्वतंत्रता in 1821.
The post-independence काल थी characterized by आर्थिक अस्थिरता, the Mexican-American युद्ध और territorial cession to the United राज्य, a सिविल युद्ध, दो empires और a घरेलू तानाशाही.
The latter led to the Mexican Revolution in 1910, जिससे culminated with the promulgation of the 1917 Constitution और the emergence of the country 's वर्तमान political system.
चुनावों held in जुलाई 2000 चिह्नित the पहला समय that an opposition पार्टी जीती the प्रेसिडेंसी from the संस्थागत क्रांतिकारी Party.
Since 2006 the country रै been in the midst of a ड्रग war which has caused 60,000 मौतों.
मैक्सिको has one of the संसार 's largest economies, और is considered दोनो a क्षेत्रीय power and मध्य power.
in जोड, मैक्सिको was the पहला Latin American member of the संगठन लिये आर्थिक Co-operation और Development oecd ( चूंकि 1994 ), और considered an upper-middle income country by the संसार Bank.
Mexico is माना a newly industrialized country and an emerging power.
it रै the fourteenth largest नाममात्र जीडीपी and the eleventh largest जीडीपी by खरीदना power पैरिटी.
The economy is strongly linked to those of its North American फ़्री Trade Agreement ( nafta ) साझेदार, विशेषकर the संयुक्त राज्य of America.
Mexico बाँधने छठे in the संसार और first in the Americas by क्रमांक of UNESCO World विरासत Sites with 31, and in 2007 थी the tenth सबसे visited country in the world साथ 21.4 million अंतरराष्ट्रीय arrivals per year.
Babe Ruth holds the एमएलबी career slugging प्रतिशत रिकार्ड (.690 ).
In baseball आंकडे, slugging percentage ( abbreviated slg ) is a लोकप्रिय measure of the शक्ति of a hitter.
it is calculated as कुल bases विभाजित by at bats :
where ab is the क्रमांक of at-bats for a दिए player, and 1B, 2b, 3b, और hr are the क्रमांक of singles, युगल, तिगुना, and घर रनों, क्रमशः.
Walks are specifically excluded from this calculation.
For example, in 1920, बेब रुथ निभाई उसके पहला season लिये the नई यॉर्क यांकीज़.
In 458 at bats, रुथ had 172 हिट्स, comprising 73 singles, 36 doubles, 9 triples, और 54 घर runs, which brings the total आधार गिनती to ( 73 × 1 ) + ( 36 × 2 ) + ( 9 × 3 ) + ( 54 × 4 ) = 388.
His total क्रमांक of bases ( 388 ) विभाजित by उसके कुल at-bats ( 458 ) is.847, उसके slugging प्रतिशत लिये the ऋतु.
The next साल he slugged.846, और these records went unbroken until 2001, जब बैरी bonds हासिल 411 bases in 476 at-bats, bringing his slugging percentage to.863, बेमेल since.
is a role-playing वीडियो game विकसित और प्रकाशित by वर्गाकार ( अभी वर्गाकार Enix ) for the सुपर Nintendo entertainment प्रणाली in 1995.
Chrono ट्रिगर 's विकास टोली शामिल three designers that वर्गाकार उतावले the `` Dream Team '' : Hironobu Sakaguchi, the निर्माता of Square 's Final काल्पनिक series ; Yuji Horii, a freelance designer and creator of एनिक्स 's popular Dragon क्वेस्ट series ; and अकिरा toriyama, a freelance manga artist famed लिये his कार्य साथ ड्रैगन Quest और Dragon Ball.
Kazuhiko Aoki produced the game, masato Kato wrote सबसे of the plot, जबकि composer yasunori Mitsuda scored most of the game before falling बीमार and deferring बाकी ट्रैक्स to Final Fantasy composer nobuo Uematsu.
The game 's story फ़ॉलो a समूह of adventurers who travel through समय to prevent a वैश्विक catastrophe.
Square re-released a ported version by tose in Japan for सोनी 's PlayStation in 1999, later repackaged साथ a फाइनल Fantasy iv port as फाइनल Fantasy क्रॉनिकल्स in 2001 for the North American मार्केट.
A थोड़ा enhanced Chrono Trigger थी released for the Nintendo DS on नवम्बर 25, 2008, in उत्तर अमेरिका and जापानी, and went on sale in Australia on February 3, 2009 and in यूरोपीय on February 6, 2009.
The game was never released in PAL territories before the निन्टेंडो DS संस्करण.
chrono Trigger was a critical और वाणिज्यिक success upon रिलीज and is considered today to be एक of the महानतम वीडियो games of all समय.
निन्टेंडो शक्ति magazine वर्णित पहलुओं of chrono ट्रिगर as revolutionary, सहित its multiple endings, plot-related sidequests focusing on character विकास, अद्वितीय बैटल प्रणाली, and detailed ग्राफिक्स.
Chrono Trigger थी the तीसरा best-selling game of 1995, and the game 's SNES और PlayStation iterations have shipped 2.65 million नक़ल as of March 2003.
The version लिये the निन्टेंडो DS बेची 790,000 नक़ल as of कूच 2009.
Chrono ट्रिगर was भी ported to mobile phones, आभासी कंसोल, the प्लेस्टेशन संजाल ( तभी in the यूएसए ), iOS devices, and Android devices.
बकरी चीज
बकरी cheese, or chèvre ( इससे the French शब्द for बकरी ), is चीज बना आउट of the milk of goats.
अतिताप is elevated body temperature due to विफल thermoregulation that occurs when a body produces or absorbs अधिक heat than it dissipates.
Extreme तापमान elevation तब becomes a चिकित्सा आपात requiring immediate उपचार to prevent विकलांगता or death.
The most common कल्याणकारी include ऊष्मा स्ट्रोक and adverse reactions to दवाएँ.
the पूर्व is an अधि temperature elevation caused by एक्सपोज़र to excessive ऊष्मा, or combination of heat and humidity, कि overwhelms the heat-regulating mechanisms.
The latter is a अपेक्षाकृत rare side effect of many दवाएँ, particularly those that affect the central nervous system.
Malignant अतिताप is a विरल complication of कुछ प्रकार of general एनेस्थीसिया.
Hyperthermia can भी be deliberately induced using drugs or चिकित्सा डिवाइस और may be used in the treatment of कुछ kinds of कर्कट and other शर्तें, most commonly in conjunction with radiotherapy.
Hyperthermia differs इससे ज्वर in कि the body 's temperature set point remains unchanged.
the opposite is hypothermia, जिससे occurs जब the तापमान बूंदें below that required to maintain सामान्य चयापचय.
बेलीज़, is a देश located on the northeastern coast of Central अमेरिका.
it is the तभी देश in the क्षेत्रफल where English is the आधिकारिक language, although Kriol and Spanish are अधिक commonly बोला.
Belize is bordered on the उत्तर by मैक्सिको, to the दक्षिण और west by Guatemala और to the ईस्ट by the Caribbean समुद्र.
Its mainland is about long और चौड़ी.
With of land and a जनसांख्यिकी of only 312,698 inhabitants ( 2010 जनसांख्यिकी ), बेलीज़ possesses the lowest जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व in सेंट्रल America.
the देश 's जनसांख्यिकी growth रेट of 3.15 % ( 2012 est. ) is the दूसरी उच्चतम in the प्रदेश और एक of the highest in the western hemisphere.
बेलीज़ 's प्रचुरता of terrestrial और marine प्रजाति, और its diversity of ecosystems दे it a key place भीतर the globally significant Mesoamerican Biological corridor.
Belize has a diverse society, comprising many संस्कृतियों and languages.
It is the only nation in the प्रदेश with a British colonial विरासत, लकिन as a भाग of the Western caribbean मण्डल, it भी साझा a आम विरासत with the fellow Anglophone Caribbean देशों.
In general, बेलीज़ is माना to be a Central अमरीकी और Caribbean nation साथ दमदार ties to both the Caribbean और लैटिन America.
Belize is a member of the Caribbean Community ( caricom ), the Community of Latin American और caribbean राज्य ( celac ), और Central American Integration System ( सिका ).
बेलीज़ is known for its September जश्न, और is the जन्मस्थान of चबाने गम और punta चट्टान.
the `` Betsy Ross '' flag
A `` Betsy रॉस '' flag उड़ती outside San Francisco नगर Hall
The बेट्सी रॉस flag is an जल्दी डिज़ाइन of the ध्वज of the United States, popularly attributed to बेट्सी Ross, using the आम motifs of प्रत्यावर्ती red-and-white striped फ़ील्ड with five-pointed stars in a ब्लू canton.
the ध्वज थी designed during the अमरीकी क्रान्ति और सुविधाएँ 13 सितारों to represent the original 13 colonies.
The distinctive विशेषता of the रॉस flag is the arrangement of the सितारों in a वृत्त.
Although the Betsy Ross स्टोरी is accepted by सबसे अमेरिकी, some ध्वज इतिहासकारों and revisionists do नहीं accept the Betsy Ross डिज़ाइन as the first अमरीकी flag.
according to the परंपरागत खाता, the original flag थी बना in June 1776, when a छोटी committee—including जार्ज Washington, Robert Morris और relative George रॉस —visited Betsy and discussed the need for a new American flag.
Betsy स्वीकृत the जॉब to manufacture the flag, altering the committee 's डिज़ाइन by replacing the six-pointed सितारों साथ five-pointed stars.
While the बेट्सी रॉस legend is questionable, the flag design is ज्ञात to have been in use by 1777 ; अल्फ्रेड B. Street described it at the आत्मसमर्पण of सामान्य burgoyne और समझा the circle of सितारों to represent equality among the अमरीकी states.
It is one of the oldest संस्करण of u.S. flags known to exist ; जबकि it is not the oldest surviving ध्वज centuries in cloth रूप, इसके likeness appears on पुरानी physical relics, namely, the contemporary battlefield paintings by जॉन trumbull and चार्ल्स Willson peale.
They depict the गोलाकार स्टार व्यवस्था होने flown इससे जलयान masts and अनेक other स्थान, and यूँ provide the first ज्ञात ऐतिहासिक documentation of the ध्वज 's रूप.
the मुहर of the U.S. विभाग of Veterans Affairs uses the Betsy रॉस ध्वज to represent सेवा to all दिग्गजों इससे the American क्रान्ति to the उपस्थित day.
The Betsy Ross design of 13-star us ध्वज has been featured in many लोकप्रिय artworks ( sometimes inaccurately, as in Washington Crossing the डेलावेयर ) और films, ऐसे as the 1960 version of pollyanna.
the ध्वज continues to be एक of the सबसे popular प्रतीकों of the American Revolution.
a purr is a ध्वनि बना by सब प्रजाति of felids और is a part of बिल्ली संचार.
It varies between बिल्लियों ( लिये example by loudness and टोन ), और from species to प्रजाति, लकिन can be characterized as a tonal buzzing.
the पद `` purring '' रै महरूम used liberally in साहित्य, and it has been claimed that viverrids ( civet, mongoose, genet ), bears, badgers, hyaenas ( et cetera ) purr.
Other animals कि have been said to purr are खरगोश, squirrels, गिनी pigs, tapirs, ring-tailed lemurs, हाथियों, raccoons और gorillas while eating.
However, using a सख्त definition of purring कि निरन्तर sound उत्पादन जरूर alternate between pulmonic egressive और ingressive airstream ( and प्रायः go on for मिनट्स ), पीटर्स ( 2002 ), in an विस्तृत पुनर्विलोकन of the वैज्ञानिक literature, reached the conclusion कि until तब only ‘purring cats’ ( फ़ेलिडाए ) and two प्रजाति of genets, Genetta tigrina, और most likely also genetta genetta, had महरूम प्रलेखित to purr.
the platypus ( Ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic स्तनधारी endemic to eastern Australia, including तस्मानिया.
साथ साथ the चार species of echidna, it is one of the पाँच extant species of monotremes, the only स्तनधारियों कि lay अंडे instead of giving जनम.
It is the एकमात्र living representative of its परिवार ( Ornithorhynchidae ) और genus ( Ornithorhynchus ), हालांकि a number of related species have been मिला in the चट्टान record.
the unusual रूप of इस egg-laying, बतख -billed, beaver -tailed, otter -footed स्तनधारी मनोरथ European naturalists when वे first encountered it, with some considering it an elaborate धोखाधड़ी.
it is एक of the few विषैला स्तनधारियों, the पुरूष platypus having a spur on the hind पैर that delivers a venom सक्षम of causing कठोर pain to इंसानो.
the unique features of the platypus make it an important विषय in the पढ़ाई of विकासवादी biology और a recognisable and iconic symbol of Australia ; it रै appeared as a शुभंकर at नेशनल events and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent सिक्का.
The platypus is the एनिमल emblem of the state of New South Wales.
Until the जल्दी 20th सदी, it थी hunted for इसके फर, but it is अभी protected throughout इसके दायरा.
हालांकि captive प्रजनन programmes have had तभी सीमित कामयाबी and the platypus is vulnerable to the effects of प्रदूषण, it is not अंतर्गत कोई immediate threat.
St. Elizabeth is a गाँव in Miller काउंटी, मिसौरी, United States.
the population was 336 at the 2010 census.
Wilton is a census-designated प्लेस ( cdp ) in Sacramento काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, संयुक्त राज्य.
it is भाग of the Sacramento – Arden-Arcade – roseville Metropolitan Statistical Area.
the population was 5,363 at the 2010 census, up from 4,551 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
in human-computer बातचीत, cut and paste and नक़ल और paste are related कमांड कि offer a user-interface बातचीत तकनीक for transferring text, data, files or objects इससे a सोर्स to a destination.
सबसे ubiquitously, users आवश्यकता the ability to काटें and paste भाग of मैदान text.
The cut command removes the selected data इससे its original position, जबकि the copy command creates a नकल ; in दोनो मामले the selected data is लगाई in a clipboard.
The आंकड़ा in the clipboard is later inserted in the स्थिति जहाँ the paste कमांड is जारी.
the command names हैं an इंटरफ़ेस रूपक based on the physical procedure used in पाण्डुलिपि संपादन to बनाएँ a पेज layout.
इस बातचीत तकनीक रै बंद associations साथ सम्बन्धित techniques in graphical उपयोक्ता interfaces कि उपयोग इंगित devices such as a computer mouse ( by खीचें और बूँद, लिये उदाहरण ).
Economic अनुक्रम मात्रा is the order मात्रा कि minimizes total inventory holding लागत और ordering costs.
It is one of the oldest शास्त्रीय उत्पादन scheduling models.
the फ्रेमवर्क प्रयुक्त to determine इस order मात्रा is also known as barabas eoq Model or Barabas सूत्र.
The मॉडल थी विकसित by Ford W. हैरिस in 1913, but R. H. Wilson, a सलाहकार जो applied it extensively, is दिए क्रेडिट for his in-depth विश्लेषण.
स्टीफन `` Stevie '' Ray vaughan ( अक्तूबर 3, 1954 – August 27, 1990 ) was an अमरीकी guitarist, singer-songwriter, and record producer.
Often referred to by उसके initials SRV, Vaughan is बेहतरीन known as a founding सदस्य और leader of दोगुना ट्रबल.
साथ with वादक क्रिस Layton and bassist Tommy शैनन, they ignited the blues पुनरुद्धार of the 1980s.
साथ a career spanning सात सालो, Vaughan and दोगुना ट्रबल consistently sold आउट कॉन्सर्ट जबकि their albums अक्सर went gold.
he was born and raised in Dallas, Texas, और for a छोटी काल of समय lived in ग्राहम, टेक्सास.
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan, Vaughan started playing the गिटार at आयु सात and formed several bands कि occasionally performed in local nightclubs.
At आयु 17, he dropped out of ऊँची school और moved to ऑस्टिन to further pursue his musical करियर, joining groups such as Krackerjack, the nightcrawlers, and the Cobras.
in 1977, he formed Triple Threat revue, a band that eventually विकसित into Double ट्रबल और regularly performed around Austin.
in 1982, Vaughan और दोगुना Trouble performed at the Montreux जैज़ पर्व in Switzerland, catching the ध्यान of musicians दाउद बोवी और जैक्सन browne.
बोवी asked Vaughan to play on उसके आगामी studio album Let 's Dance, जबकि Browne offered the बैंड फ़्री use of his personal स्टुडियो in Los एंजिल्स to रिकार्ड an एल्बम.
In March 1983, vaughan and Double Trouble were हस्ताक्षरित to Epic रिकॉर्ड by veteran record producer जॉन Hammond sr. and released उनके debut एल्बम, Texas बाढ़ in जून of that साल.
बाद कामयाब touring, the group released the एल्बम, could n't स्टैंड the मौसम ( 1984 ) and Soul to Soul ( 1985 ), the latter of which featured नई keyboardist रीज़ wynans.
हालांकि उसके करियर had progressed सफलतापूर्वक, vaughan checked into a पुनर्वास हॉस्पिटल in Atlanta, Georgia to give up a cocaine and दारू habit and returned to touring साथ the बैंड.
In June 1989, in कदम थी released और अर्जित them a Grammy Award for बेहतरीन Contemporary ब्लूज़ Performance.
On अगस्त 27, 1990, vaughan was killed in a हेलीकाप्टर क्रैश following a performance in ईस्ट ट्रॉय, विस्कॉन्सिन.
vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet तीव्र style थी निकला इससे a variety of musical genres.
he was influenced by blues musicians सहित Albert King, फ्रेडी King, Otis Rush, और muddy waters, और चट्टान guitarists ऐसे as Jimi Hendrix और lonnie mack.
उसके guitar playing reflected the क्लासिक ब्लूज़ and pentatonic तराजू.
He has प्राप्त wide नाजुक recognition for उसके गिटार playing, ranking at # 6 on Rolling पत्थरों सूची of `` 100 महानतम guitarists '' in 2011.
He was posthumously inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame in 2000 and a memorial प्रतिमा was erected in Austin 's Auditorium Shores पार्क.
Stevie Ray vaughan is widely माना to be one of the महानतम संगीतकारों to आइये from the state of Texas.
The लास Vegas स्ट्रिप World of coca-cola संग्रहालय in 2003
coca-cola is a कार्बोनेटेड soft drink sold in stores, रेस्तरां, और वेंडिंग मशीने in प्रत्येक देश मगर क्यूबा और North Korea.
it is उत्पादित by the Coca-Cola कम्पनी of अटलांटा, जॉर्जिया, और is often referred to बस as कोक ( a पंजीकृत trademark of The coca-cola Company in the United States since March 27, 1944 ).
originally intended as a patent medicine when it थी invented in the late 19th century by जॉन pemberton, coca-cola थी bought out by बिजनेसमैन Asa Griggs candler, whose marketing tactics led Coke to इसके dominance of the world soft-drink मार्केट throughout the 20th century.
the company produces concentrate, which is then बेची to licensed coca-cola bottlers throughout the world.
The bottlers, जो hold territorially विशेष अनुबंध साथ the कम्पनी, उपज समाप्त product in डिब्बे and बोतलों from the concentrate in संयोजन with filtered water and sweeteners.
The bottlers then sell, वितरित और merchandise coca-cola to retail स्टोर्स and वेंडिंग मशीने.
ऐसे bottlers शामिल coca-cola Enterprises, जिससे is the largest single Coca-Cola bottler in उत्तर America and western Europe.
The coca-cola कम्पनी भी sells concentrate for soda fountains to major रेस्तरां and food service वितरकों.
The Coca-Cola कम्पनी has, on occasion, introduced other कोला drinks under the कोक ब्रांड नाम.
the most common of these is आहार कोक, with अन्य सहित caffeine-free coca-cola, आहार Coke caffeine-free, coca-cola Cherry, Coca-Cola Zero, coca-cola Vanilla, and special versions with lemon, lime or कॉफी.
आधारित on Interbrand 's best वैश्विक ब्रांड 2011, coca-cola थी the world 's सबसे मूल्यवान brand.
बैरी लुई Larkin ( born April 28, 1964 ) is a retired Major League बेसबॉल player.
Larkin played shortstop for the सिनसिनाटी Reds from 1986 to 2004 और थी one of the pivotal खिलाड़ी on the 1990 Reds ' World श्रेणी चैंपियनशिप team.
larkin was elected to the नेशनल Baseball हॉल of Fame in January 2012 और थी inducted on July 22.
Larkin is माना one of the top players of his era, जीतना नौ चांदी slugger awards और तीन सुनहरा दस्ताने awards.
He was चयनित to the Major लीग all-star Game twelve times, और थी निर्वाचित the 1995 National लीग सबसे Valuable Player.
Brasília ( ) is the संघीय पूंजी of ब्राज़ील and the seat of government of the Federal ज़िला.
Administratively, the city is स्तिथ in the संघीय District which is in the Central-West Region.
Physically, it is located in the ब्राज़ीलियाई Highlands.
it has a population of परिचय 2,562,963 ( 3,716,996 in the महानगर area ) as of the 2008 IBGE estimate, बनाना it the चौथी largest city in ब्राज़ील.
However, as a महानगर area, it बाँधने lower at छठे in जनसांख्यिकी.
Brasília is the largest नगर in the संसार कि did not मौजूद at the शुरूआत of the 20th century.
brasília रै the पांचवां largest GDP among Latin अमरीकी शहरों and the तीसरा in Brazil.
at around r $ 62,000 ब्राज़ीलियाई reais ( equal to approximately $ 30,900 US डॉलर or €23,000 euros ), the city 's per capita आय is the highest among ब्राज़ील 's largest cities.
as the नेशनल capital, brasília is the seat of सब तीन शाखाओं of the संघीय government of ब्राज़ील.
the नगर also hosts the headquarters of many ब्राज़ीलियाई कंपनियाँ.
Planning policies ऐसे as the location of residential इमारतें around expansive शहरी areas, as well as भवन the नगर around large avenues and dividing it into sectors, have sparked a बहस and प्रतिबिंब on जीवन in बिग शहरों in the 20th century.
The नगर 's design divides it into numbered ब्लॉक as well as sectors लिये specified क्रियाएँ, ऐसे as the होटल Sector, the Banking सेक्टर or the Embassy Sector.
Brasília hosts 124 foreign embassies.
the city was planned और विकसित in 1956 साथ lúcio कोस्टा as the principal शहरी planner, Oscar niemeyer as the प्रिंसिपल architect और Roberto burle मार्क्स as the लैंडस्केप designer.
brasilia is in the युनेस्को 's संसार hertitage List due to its architecture.
on अप्रैल 22, 1960, it formally became ब्राज़ील 's नेशनल capital.
Viewed इससे above, the main portion of the नगर resembles an वायुयान or a butterfly.
the नगर is commonly referred to as पूंजी संघीय, or बस BSB.
Residents of brasília हैं ज्ञात as brasilienses or candangos ( the latter referring to those not born in the नगर लकिन who migrated वहीँ after it was established ).
in local उपयोग, the word `` brasília '' usually refers only to the पहला प्रशासनिक प्रदेश ( ra I ) भीतर the संघीय ज़िला ( Distrito संघीय ), जहाँ the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण सरकारी इमारतें हैं स्तिथ.
brasília has a unique औकात in ब्राज़ील, as it is an प्रशासनिक प्रभाग rather than a legal municipality like nearly सब शहरों in ब्राज़ील.
nationally, the पद is almost always प्रयुक्त synonymously with the Federal ज़िला, which constitutes an indivisible federative ईकाई, analogous to a state.
Several `` उपग्रह cities '' exist जिससे हैं also part of the Federal ज़िला.
Brasília अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र is the main विमानक्षेत्र in Brasília, connecting the पूंजी to सब प्रमुख ब्राज़ीलियाई शहरों and many international destinations.
It is the तीसरा सबसे महत्वपूर्ण airport in ब्राज़ील, in शर्तें of passengers and वायुयान आंदोलनों.
personifications of Germany, फ़्रांस, Russia, austria-hungary, and the संयुक्त किंगडम attempting to रखना the lid on the simmering cauldron of imperialist and राष्ट्रवादी tensions in the Balkans to prevent a general European war.
They were successful in 1912 और 1913 लकिन किया not succeed in in 1914.
The causes of संसार युद्ध i, which began in central Europe in late जुलाई 1914 और समाप्त in 1918, included अनेक factors, such as the विरोध and hostility of the चार decades leading up to the युद्ध.
Militarism, alliances, imperialism, and राष्ट्रवाद निभाई प्रमुख roles in the conflict as well.
the immediate origins of the युद्ध, however, lay in the निर्णय taken by कूटनीतिज्ञों और सेनापतियों during the Crisis of 1914, casus belli for जिससे थी the assassination of archduke फ्रांज Ferdinand ( the Archduke of ऑस्ट्रिया हंगेरियाई ) and his wife Sophie by gavrilo princip, an irredentist serb.
The संकट आए बाद a long and मुश्किल series of diplomatic clashes between the ग्रेट शक्तियां ( इटली, France, Germany, the British Empire, the austria-hungarian साम्राज्य and रूस ) over यूरोपीय and colonial मुद्दे in the decade before 1914 कि had left tensions ऊँची.
In फेरे ये राजनयिक clashes can be traced to changes in the संतुलन of power in Europe since 1867.
The more immediate cause लिये the युद्ध was तनाव over territory in the balkans.
Austria-Hungary competed with Serbia और रूस लिये territory and influence in the region और they pulled the rest of the ग्रेट शक्तियां into the conflict through their विभिन्न alliances और treaties.
हालांकि the chain of कार्यक्रम unleashed by the हत्या triggered the war, the war 's origins go deeper, involving national राजनीती, cultures, अर्थशास्त्र, और a complex web of alliances and counterbalances that था developed between the विभिन्न European शक्तियां चूंकि 1870.
कुछ of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण long term or structural causes हैं : the विकास of राष्ट्रवाद across Europe, unresolved territorial विवादों, an intricate system of alliances, the perceived breakdown of the संतुलन of शक्ति in Europe, convoluted और fragmented governance, the बाहें races of the previous दशकों, पिछला सैन्य planning, imperial और colonial rivalry for wealth, power और prestige, और economic and military rivalry in उद्योग और trade – e.g., the Pig युद्ध between Austria and Serbia.
अन्य causes कि आए into खेल दौरान the diplomatic संकट कि preceded the युद्ध शामिल misperceptions of intent ( e.g., the German belief कि the संयुक्त Kingdom होता remain न्यूट्रल ) और देरी और misunderstandings in diplomatic संचार.
the various categories of स्पष्टीकरण for World War i correspond to अलग historians ' overall विधि.
Most historians और popular टीकाकारों शामिल causes इससे अधिक than एक श्रेणी of स्पष्टीकरण to provide a rounded account of the causes of the war.
the deepest भेद among ये accounts is between stories that see it as the inevitable और predictable निष्कर्ष of निश्चित कारकों, and those कि describe it as an मनमानी और unfortunate mistake.
in attributing कल्याणकारी for the war, historians और academics था to सौदे साथ an unprecedented flood of memoirs and आधिकारिक documents, released as each country involved tried to avoid दोष for starting the war.
Early releases of सूचना by सरकारें, विशेषकर those released लिये use by the `` Commission on the Responsibility of the Authors of the युद्ध '' were दिखाया to be अधूरी and पक्षपातपूर्ण.
In जोड some दस्तावेज़, especially diplomatic cables between रूस and फ़्रांस, यहूद found to have been doctored.
भी in later decades however, जब much more सूचना had been released, historians इससे the same संस्कृति have महरूम दिखाया to come to differing conclusions on the causes of the war.
जॉनसन 's new chart of नेशनल emblems, प्रकाशित c. 1868.
the विशाल flags दिखाया in the corners are the 37-star ध्वज of the United States ( flown 1867-1877 ), the royal Standard of the संयुक्त Kingdom, the Russian Imperial Standard, और the French tricolore with inset Imperial त्रिभुज.
Various other flags flown by जहाजों हैं दिखाया.
the Flag of क्यूबा is labelled `` क्यूबन ( so called ) ``.
The Chinese dragon on the ध्वज of चीन थी drawn mistakenly as a पश्चिमी ड्रैगन.
a नेशनल ध्वज is a flag कि symbolizes a country.
The ध्वज is flown by the सरकारी, लकिन usually can also be flown by नागरिकों of the देश.
Both पब्लिक and निजी इमारतें ऐसे as schools और courthouses may मक्खी the नेशनल ध्वज.
In some देशों, the national ध्वज are only flown इससे non-military इमारतें on निश्चित flag days.
वहीँ are three पृथक प्रकार of नेशनल ध्वज लिये use on land, और तीन for उपयोग at समुद्र, हालांकि many countries उपयोग identical डिजाइन for several ( और sometimes all ) of these प्रकार of ध्वज.
the American सिविल War ( ACW ), also ज्ञात as the युद्ध between the राज्य or बस the Civil युद्ध ( see नामकरण ), थी a सिविल युद्ध fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य that घोषित उनके secession and formed the Confederate राज्य of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had इसके उत्पत्ति in the issue of slavery, especially the extension of गुलामी into the पश्चिमी territories.
Foreign शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene.
बाद चार सालो of bloody कॉम्बैट that बाएँ over 600,000 सैनिको dead and destroyed much of the दक्षिण 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, गुलामी was abolished, and the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring नेशनल एकता and guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed स्लेव began.
in the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by अब्राहम lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त States ' territories.
Lincoln won, but पहले his उद्घाटन on कूच 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन and the आवक republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address घोषित उसके प्रशासन होता नहीं initiate सिविल युद्ध.
आठ बाकी slave राज्य continued to अस्वीकृत calls लिये secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the confederacy.
a Peace Conference विफल to ढूँढें a सुलह, and both पहलू prepared लिये युद्ध.
the confederates assumed that यूरोपीय countries were so निर्भर on `` King कपास `` that they होता intervene ; none did and none पहचाना the नई Confederate States of America.
hostilities began on अप्रैल 12, 1861, जब confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट Sumter, a कुंजी fort held by Union सैनिकों in South Carolina.
lincoln called for प्रत्येक state to provide सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट ; consequently, चार अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the confederacy, bringing उनके total to eleven.
the Union जल्द controlled the किनारा states and स्थापित a naval blockade that crippled the दक्षिणी अर्थव्यवस्था.
the पूर्वी Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
the autumn 1862 confederate campaign into Maryland ( a संघ state ) ended with Confederate रिट्रीट at the बैटल of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
lincoln जारी the Emancipation Proclamation, जिससे बना ending slavery a war लक्ष्य.
to the west, by summer 1862 the संघ नष्ट the Confederate नदी नेवी, तब much of their western armies, और the Union at Vicksburg split the confederacy in दो at the मिसिसिपी नदी.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the बैटल of gettysburg.
पश्चिमी successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864.
In the पश्चिमी Theater, विलियम T. Sherman drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर Atlanta और marched to the sea, destroying confederate infrastructure साथ the way.
The संघ marshaled the resources और जनशक्ति to आक्रमण the confederacy from सब directions, and could afford to लड़ो battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards रिचमंड, the Confederate capital.
the defending confederate army विफल, अग्रणी to Lee 's surrender to ग्रान्ट at Appomattox Court हाउस on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil युद्ध थी one of the earliest true औद्योगिक wars.
Railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, और mass-produced weapons यहूद employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian कारखानों, mines, shipyards, बैंको, परिवहन और food आपूर्तियाँ all foreshadowed World War i.
it remains the deadliest युद्ध in American history, resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined क्रमांक of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the मौत टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of सब दक्षिणी white males aged 18–40.
norrie बीमारी is a जेनेटिक disorder कि primarily affects the eye and लगभग सदा लीड to blindness.
In addition to the congenital ocular लक्षण, some patients suffer from a progressive hearing घाटा starting mostly in their 2nd decade of जीवन, जबकि another portion may be mentally challenged.
मरीजों साथ norrie बीमारी may develop cataracts, leukocoria ( a कंडीशन where the pupils appear white when light is shone on उन्हें ), साथ with other developmental issues in the eye, such as shrinking of the globe and the बर्बाद away of the iris.
Around 30–50 % of them will also have developmental डेलाy/ mental retardation, psychotic-like features, incoordination of movements or behavioral abnormalities.
Most मरीजों हैं born with normal hearing ; however, the onset of hearing घाटा is very आम in early किशोरावस्था.
परिचय 15 % of the मरीजों are अनुमानित to develop सब the features of the बीमारी.
the बीमारी affects लगभग तभी पुरूष infants at जनम or soon बाद birth, क्युकी the बीमारी is inherited X-linked recessive.
तभी in very rare मामले, females have been diagnosed साथ norrie disease as well.
The exact incidence क्रमांक is unknown ; only a few hundred cases have महरूम reported so far.
It is a बहुत विरल विकार कि is not संबद्ध with any विशिष्ट जातीय or जातिगत groups.
a अनुबंध is an अनुबंध having a lawful object डाला into voluntarily by दो or more पार्टियों, प्रत्येक of whom intends to बनाएँ एक or more legal दायित्वों between them.
The elements of a contract हैं `` offer '' and `` acceptance '' by `` competent व्यक्तियों '' having legal क्षमता जो exchange `` consideration '' to create `` mutuality of दायित्व. ''
Proof of कुछ or सब of ये तत्व may be किया in लिखने, though अनुबंध may be made entirely orally or by conduct.
the उपाय for breach of अनुबंध can be `` क्षतिपूर्ति '' in the रूप of compensation of धन or specific performance enforced through an आदेश.
Both of ये remedies award the पार्टी at loss the `` लाभ of the सौदेबाजी '' or expectation क्षतिपूर्ति, which हैं वृहद than mere reliance damages, as in promissory estoppel.
The parties may be natural व्यक्तियों or juristic persons.
a अनुबंध is a legally enforceable promise or undertaking that something will or होगा नहीं occur.
the word वादा can be used as a legal पर्याय for अनुबंध, although परवाह is required as a promise may not have the पूरा खड़ा of a अनुबंध, as जब it is an अनुबंध without विचार.
Contract विधि varies greatly from एक jurisdiction to another, सहित मतभेद in आम law compared to civil विधि, the प्रभाव of प्राप्त law, particularly from England in आम law देशों, और of विधि codified in regional विधान.
Regarding ऑस्ट्रेलियाई Contract विधि for उदाहरण, there are 40 relevant अधिनियमों जिससे प्रभाव on the निर्वचन of अनुबंध at the राष्ट्रमंडल ( Federal / national ) level, and an अतिरिक्त 26 अधिनियमों at the level of the राज्य of nsw.
in addition वहीँ हैं 6 international यंत्र or प्रथाओं जिससे are applicable for international dealings, such as the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International बिक्री of goods.
ASP.NET is a server-side Web अनुप्रयोग framework designed लिये वेब विकास to उपज डायनेमिक Web pages.
it was developed by microsoft to allow programmers to निर्माण डायनेमिक web साइट, वेब applications and वेब सेवाएं.
It was पहला released in January 2002 with version 1.0 of the.neT Framework, and is the successor to microsoft 's क्रियाशील Server पृष्ठों ( asp ) technology.
ASP.NET is निर्मित on the आम Language runtime ( clr ), allowing प्रोग्रामर्स to लिखें asp.net code using any समर्थित.neT भाषा.
The asp.net साबुन extension फ्रेमवर्क allows asp.net components to प्रक्रम SOAP संदेश.
lysergic एसिड diethylamide, abbreviated LSD or LSD-25, भी known as lysergide ( इन ) और colloquially as एसिड, is a semisynthetic psychedelic drug of the ergoline परिवार, well ज्ञात लिये इसके मनोवैज्ञानिक प्रभाव जिससे can include altered सोच processes, बंद and खोलें eye visuals, synesthesia, an altered sense of time and spiritual experiences, as well as for इसके key role in 1960s counterculture.
it is used mainly as an entheogen, recreational drug, और as an एजेंट in साइकेडेलिक चिकित्सा.
LSD is non-addictive, is नहीं ज्ञात to कारण दिमाग क्षति, और रै अत्यधिक कम toxicity relative to dose.
However, adverse psychiatric प्रतिक्रियाएँ such as चिंता, paranoia, and delusions हैं possible.
एलएसडी थी पहला synthesized by अल्बर्ट hofmann in 1938 इससे ergotamine, a रासायनिक निकला by Arthur stoll इससे ergot, a grain कवक कि typically grows on rye.
the short form `` एलएसडी '' आता इससे इसके early कोड name lsd-25, which is an संक्षिप्त लिये the जर्मनी `` Lysergsäure-diethylamid '' followed by a sequential number.
एलएसडी is संवेदनशील to oxygen, पराबैंगनी light, और chlorine, विशेषकर in समाधान, हालांकि its potency may last for years if it is stored away from light and नमी at low तापमान.
In pure form it is a colorless, odorless, tasteless ठोस.
LSD is typically वितरित orally, प्रायः on a substrate such as absorbent blotter paper, a शुगर cube, or जिलेटिन.
In its liquid form, it can भी be administered by intramuscular or intravenous injection.
LSD is बहुत potent, with 20–30 μg ( micrograms ) being the दहलीज dose.
New प्रयोग with एलएसडी प्रारंभ in 2009 लिये the first time in 40 years.
Introduced by sandoz laboratories, साथ trade-name Delysid, as a drug साथ विभिन्न psychiatric uses in 1947, एलएसडी जल्दी became a therapeutic agent that appeared to show ग्रेट वादा.
In the 1950s, officials at the U.S. Central प्रज्ञा एजेंसी ( CIA ) विचार the ड्रग might be applicable to mind कंट्रोल और रासायनिक warfare ; the एजेंसी 's MKULTRA शोध program propagated the drug among young servicemen और विद्यार्थी.
the subsequent recreational उपयोग of the drug by युवावस्था culture in the पश्चिमी world दौरान the 1960s led to a राजनैतिक firestorm कि resulted in इसके prohibition.
फिलहाल, a क्रमांक of organizations—including the Beckley न्यास, मानचित्र, Heffter Research Institute और the Albert hofmann Foundation—exist to fund, encourage and निर्देशांक शोध into the medicinal and आध्यात्मिक uses of LSD और related psychedelics.
the United States नेवी 's Sea, एयर, जमीन टीमों, commonly known as the नेवी SEALs, हैं the u.S. Navy 's प्रिंसिपल खास परिचालन फ़ोर्स and a part of the Naval खास Warfare कमांड और संयुक्त States खास Operations कमांड.
`` मुहर '' is सदा capitalized in reference to सदस्यों of the Naval Special warfare community.
the acronym is निकला इससे their क्षमता to operate at sea, in the air, और on land.
SEALs हैं पुरूष सदस्यों of the United राज्य नेवी.
an exchange कार्यक्रम साथ the Coast गार्ड, which graduated three Coast Guardsmen as seals, थी निलंबित in 2011.
the CIA 's अत्यधिक गुपचुप खास Activities Division ( SAD ) and more specifically इसके elite Special Operations समूह ( sog ) recruits operators from the मुहर टीमों.
संयुक्त Navy seals और CIA परिचालन go back to the famed macv-sog दौरान the Vietnam War.
इस सहयोग still exists आज और is seen in the wars in Iraq और अफगानिस्तान, और in the finding and killing of Osama bin लादेन in Pakistan.
World जनसांख्यिकी estimates from 1800 to 2100, आधारित on UN 2010 projections ( रेड, orange, green ) and us जनसांख्यिकी Bureau ऐतिहासिक estimates ( black ).
वास्तविक recorded जनसांख्यिकी आंकड़े are in blue.
According to the उच्चतम अनुमान, the संसार जनसांख्यिकी may rise to 16 अरब by 2100 ; according to the न्यूनतम अनुमान, it may मनाही to 6 billion.
the संसार जनसांख्यिकी is the कुल क्रमांक of जीना humans on धरती.
As of आज, it is estimated to number billion by the United States Census Bureau ( uscb ).
The USCB estimates कि the world population exceeded 7 billion on कूच 12, 2012.
according to a separate अनुमान by the United राष्ट्र Population निधि, it reached इस पड़ाव on अक्तूबर 31, 2011.
The संसार जनसांख्यिकी रै अनुभवी continuous growth चूंकि the समाप्त of the ग्रेट Famine and the Black मौत in 1350, जब it stood at around 370 लाख.
the उच्चतम दरों of विकास – वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी increases ऊपर 1.8 % per साल – यहूद देखी briefly during the 1950s, and लिये a longer काल दौरान the 1960s and 1970s.
the विकास रेट peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, and had declined to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total सालाना births यहूद उच्चतम in the late 1980s at परिचय 138 million, and हैं now expected to remain essentially constant at उनके 2011 level of 134 million, while मौतों क्रमांक 56 लाख प्रति साल, and हैं अपेक्षित to बढ़ाएँ to 80 लाख प्रति year by 2040.
वर्तमान projections दिखाएँ a continued बढ़ाएँ in population in the निकट भविष्य ( but a steady मनाही in the population विकास रेट ), with the global population expected to reach between 7.5 और 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates भविष्यवाणी further growth, stagnation, or भी overall मनाही in the global जनसांख्यिकी by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population विकास, citing the growing pressures on the पर्यावरण, वैश्विक खाना supplies, and उर्जा संसाधन.
Memphis is a city in the southwestern कोने of the U.S. state of Tennessee, and the county seat of शेल्बी County.
The city is located on the 4th Chickasaw Bluff, दक्षिण of the confluence of the भेड़िया और Mississippi नदियाँ.
Memphis था a जनसांख्यिकी of 672,277 in 2011 making it the largest नगर in the राज्य of टेनेसी, the largest city on the Mississippi River, the third largest in the Southeastern संयुक्त राज्य, and the 20th largest in the United States.
The वृहद मेम्फिस महानगर क्षेत्रफल, including adjacent काउंटी in मिसिसिपी and Arkansas, had a 2010 जनसांख्यिकी of 1,316,100.
इस makes Memphis the दूसरी largest metropolitan क्षेत्रफल in टेनेसी, surpassed तभी by महानगर Nashville, जिससे रै overtaken मेम्फिस in recent years.
मेम्फिस is the youngest of Tennessee 's major cities.
a निवासी of मेम्फिस is referred to as a memphian, and the Memphis प्रदेश is ज्ञात, particularly to media outlets, as `` मेम्फिस & The Mid-South ``.
The Cattenom Nuclear शक्ति Plant in फ़्रांस.
फ़्रांस produces around three quarters of इसके electricity by nuclear शक्ति.
the Grafenrheinfeld नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in जर्मनी.
Chancellor एंजेला Merkel 's coalition घोषित on May 30, 2011, that Germany’s 17 nuclear शक्ति स्टेशन होगा be shut down by 2022, in a policy reversal following जापानी 's फुकुशिमा Daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति.
फिलहाल, 68 रिएक्टरों are अंतर्गत निर्माण in 15 countries.
Nuclear power स्टेशन operate in तीस countries.
In 2010, पहले the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, it थी reported कि an औसत of about 10 नाभिकीय reactors were expected to become operational per year, हालांकि according to the संसार Nuclear Association, of the 17 civilian reactors नियोजित to become operational between 2007 and 2009, only पाँच दरअसल came on stream.
as of June 2011, जर्मनी और Switzerland are phasing-out नाभिकीय शक्ति.
as of जून 2011, countries such as Australia, Austria, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, इटली, Latvia, liechtenstein, Luxembourg, मलेशिया, Malta, New Zealand, Norway and Portugal remain opposed to नाभिकीय power.
Skeletal मांसपेशियां homo sapiens
इस is a table of मांसपेशियां of the human anatomy.
वहीँ हैं approximately 642 skeletal मांसपेशियां within the ठेठ इंसान, और almost प्रत्येक मांसपेशी constitutes one भाग of a pair of एकसमान bilateral मांसपेशियां, found on दोनो पहलू, resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles, as प्रस्तुत in इस आलेख.
Nevertheless, the सटीक क्रमांक is मुश्किल to define क्युकी अलग स्त्रोत group muscles differently, e.g. regarding what is defined as different parts of a single मांसपेशी or as अनेक muscles.
Examples दायरा from 640 to 850.
The मांसपेशियां of the human body can be categorized into a क्रमांक of groups जिससे include मांसपेशियां relating to the सिर और neck, muscles of the धड़ or ट्रंक, मांसपेशियां of the upper limbs, और muscles of the निम्नतर limbs.
The action refers to the कार्रवाई of प्रत्येक muscle इससे the standard anatomical स्थिति.
In अन्य स्थितियाँ, other actions may be performed.
A reenactment of a बैटल at Fort Foster, 1837 ( at Hillsborough River राज्य पार्क )
the Seminole Wars, also known as the Florida युद्धों, were three conflicts in फ्लोरिडा between the seminole — the collective name दिए to the amalgamation of various groups of देशी Americans और Black people who settled in फ्लोरिडा in the जल्दी 18th century — and the United States फौज.
the पहला seminole War was इससे 1814 to 1819 ( although sources differ ), the दूसरी Seminole War from 1835 to 1842, and the Third Seminole War from 1855 to 1858.
the first विरोध with the Seminoles arose आउट of तनाव relating to General एंड्रयू Jackson 's attack और destruction of Negro फोर्ट in फ्लोरिडा in 1816.
Jackson also attacked the स्पेनी at pensacola.
ultimately, the Spanish क्राउन ceded the उपनिवेश to संयुक्त States नियम.
Orono is a town in penobscot County, maine, संयुक्त States.
It was पहला settled in 1774 और named in सम्मान of Chief जोसेफ Orono of the Penobscot स्वदेश.
It is home to the विश्वविद्यालयों of maine.
the population थी 10,362 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
View of the पिरामिड
लक्सर लास वेगास is a hotel and कसीनो on the Las वेगास स्ट्रिप in स्वर्ग, Nevada.
the 30-story hotel, स्वामित्व and संचालित by MGM रिसॉर्ट International, रै a casino with over 2,000 slot मशीने और 87 table games.
In the 2008 to 2009 renovation, it रै a new, अत्यधिक modernized, और contemporary design and contains a कुल of 4,400 rooms, including 442 suites, lining the आंतरिक walls of a पिरामिड style मीनार और within जुड़वा 22-story ziggurat towers कि यहूद निर्मित as later additions.
The होटल is नामित बाद the नगर of Luxor ( ancient thebes ) in Egypt.
Luxor is the second largest hotel in लास वेगास ( the largest being the mgm Grand ) and the आठवीं largest in the संसार.
As of 2010, the Luxor has a 4 कुंजी rating from the ग्रीन कुंजी eco-rating कार्यक्रम, जिससे evaluates `` sustainable '' होटल operations.
A pilot प्रयोग, भी पुकारा a पायलट study, is a small स्केल प्रारंभिक study conducted in order to evaluate feasibility, समय, cost, प्रतिकूल कार्यक्रम, and प्रभाव size ( statistical variability ) in an attempt to predict an उचित नमूना आकार और improve upon the study design prior to performance of a full-scale research project.
पायलट studies, therefore, may नहीं be appropriate for case अध्ययन.
The लॉस एंजिल्स Fire Department ( LAFD ) is the एजेंसी that provides आग सुरक्षा और emergency medical services for the नगर of Los Angeles.
It may be unofficially referred to as the लॉस एंजिल्स नगर आग विभाग to फर्क it इससे the Los एंजिल्स काउंटी Fire विभाग.
the acre is a ईकाई of area used in the इम्पीरियल और U.S. प्रथागत systems.
An एकड़ is about 40 % of a hectare – slightly smaller than an American football field.
The acre is no longer commonly used, हालांकि a few notable अपवाद include the United राज्य, Australia, बर्मा और the संयुक्त Kingdom ( as of 2010, the acre is no longer officially used in the संयुक्त Kingdom, though is स्टिल used in real estate descriptions ).
It is still प्रयुक्त, to कुछ extent, in कनाडा.
The international symbol of the acre is ac, और is defined as 1/640 of a square mile.
the सबसे commonly प्रयुक्त acre today is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़.
In the United राज्य both the अंतरराष्ट्रीय acre and the slightly different us सर्वेक्षण एकड़ हैं in उपयोग.
The most आम use of the acre is to measure tracts of land.
One अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़ is पारिभाषित as 4046.8564224 वर्गाकार metres.
During the Middle Ages, an acre was the amount of land कि could be plowed in one day with a yoke of oxen.
Pawnee initially refers to a देशी American people और its language:
Pawnee people
pawnee भाषा
Pawnee is also the name of several स्थान in the संयुक्त States:
Pawnee, इलिनोइस
pawnee, Kansas
pawnee नगर, Nebraska
Pawnee, ओक्लाहोमा
pawnee, टेक्सास
pawnee National घासभूमि, कोलोराडो
pawnee township ( disambiguation )
Pawnee काउंटी ( बहुविकल्पी )
pawnee may also refer to:
Piper pa-25 pawnee, agricultural वायुयान
hiller vz-1 pawnee, experimental aircraft
Pawnee, इंडियाना ( fictional नगर ) the fictional setting of the एनबीसी television कॉमेडी पार्क and Recreation.
Broca 's and wernicke 's क्षेत्रों
Language processing refers to the way इंसान beings उपयोग words to communicate विचार और feelings, और कैसा ऐसे संचार are processed और समझा.
यूँ it is कैसा the brain creates और understands language.
सबसे recent theories consider that इस प्रक्रम is carried out entirely by और inside the दिमाग.
इस is माना एक of the most characteristic abilities of the human प्रजाति - शायद the सबसे characteristic.
However very little is ज्ञात about it और वहीँ is विशाल पैमाना लिये research on it.
सबसे of the ज्ञान acquired to तिथि on the subject has come इससे patients जो have suffered some type of significant सिर चोट, whether external ( wounds, बुलेट ) or internal ( स्ट्रोक्स, tumors, degenerative रोगों ).
Studies have shown कि most of the भाषा processing functions हैं carried out in the cerebral cortex.
The अनिवार्य फलन of the cortical भाषा areas is symbolic प्रतिनिधित्व.
भी हालांकि language exists in different forms, all of उन्हें हैं आधारित on symbolic प्रतिनिधित्व.
The bugatti Veyron eb 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car, designed and developed by the Volkswagen समूह and manufactured in Molsheim, France by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S.
the सुपर Sport version of the veyron is the तीव्रतम street-legal उत्पादन car in the world, with a top speed of.
The असली version has a top speed of.
it थी named car of the Decade ( 2000–2009 ) by the बीबीसी television programme शीर्ष Gear.
the मानक veyron जीती Top गियर्स बेहतरीन car Driven सब साल पुरस्कार in 2005.
on 6 अप्रैल 2013, Bugatti नियत the रिकार्ड for the तीव्रतम roadster in the संसार with the veyron Grand खेल vitesse, reaching on average a top गति of.
The Veyron 's chief designer थी hartmut Warkuss, और the exterior was designed by jozef kabaň of Volkswagen, with much of the अभियान्त्रिकी work being conducted under the मार्गदर्शन of अभियान्त्रिकी मुख्य वुल्फगांग Schreiber.
A number of special variants have been produced.
In December 2010, bugatti began offering prospective खरीदार the ability to मनपसंद exterior and इंटीरियर्स colours by using the veyron 16.4 configurator application on the marque 's आधिकारिक website.
dvd is an ऑप्टिकल disc भंडार स्वरूप, invented and विकसित by फिलिप्स, Sony, Toshiba, and Panasonic in 1995.
dvds offer उच्चतर भंडार capacity than कॉम्पैक्ट discs जबकि having the वही dimensions.
pre-recorded dvds are mass-produced using सांचा machines कि physically स्टैम्प आंकड़ा onto the dvd.
ऐसे discs are known as DVD- ROM, क्युकी आंकड़ा can only be read and not लिखा nor erased.
Blank recordable DVD discs ( dvd-r and DVD+R ) can be recorded एकबार using a dvd recorder और then फलन as a DVD-ROM. Rewritable DVDs ( DVD-RW, dvd+rw, and dvd-ram ) can be recorded और erased अनेक टाइम्स.
dvds are used in DVD-Video consumer डिजिटल वीडियो स्वरूप and in dvd-audio consumer digital ऑडियो स्वरूप, as खूब as लिये authoring avchd discs.
DVDs containing other types of information may be referred to as dvd data discs.
What Chilli Wants is an अमरीकी reality series on VH1 starring chilli, one-third of the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार -winning r & b trio TLC.
the show chronicles Chilli 's quest to ढूँढें प्रेम with the सहायता of tionna T. Smalls, an लेखक और संबंध कोच.
The श्रेणी premiered on April 11, 2010, और रै चूंकि महरूम नवीनीकृत for a दूसरी ऋतु.
the second season premiered on संडे, जनवरी 2, 2011.
Peter जीन hernandez ( born अक्तूबर 8, 1985 ), known by उसके स्टेज नाम ब्रूनो Mars, is an American singer-songwriter and रिकार्ड निर्माता.
Raised in होनोलूलू, Hawaii, by a परिवार of संगीतकारों, मंगल began making music at a यंग age and performed in विभिन्न musical venues in his hometown throughout his childhood.
He graduated from ऊँची school and तब स्थानांतरित to लॉस एंजिल्स, California, to pursue a musical करियर.
Mars produced गीतों for other artists, joining उत्पादन टोली the Smeezingtons.
मंगल had an unsuccessful कार्यावधि with Motown रिकॉर्ड, लकिन then हस्ताक्षरित साथ अटलांटिक in 2009.
he became recognized as a सोलो कलाकार after lending his vocals और co-writing the hooks लिये the songs `` nothin ' on You `` by B.o.B, और `` Billionaire `` by travie मैककॉय.
he भी co-wrote the हिट्स `` सही गोलाकार `` by flo rida featuring ke $ ha, और `` Wavin ' Flag `` by K'naan.
in October 2010, he released his debut एल्बम, Doo-Wops & Hooligans.
anchored by the worldwide number-one singles `` Just the रास्ता You Are `` और `` Grenade ``, the album peaked at number तीन on the Billboard 200.
मंगल was मनोनीत for सात grammys at the 53rd Grammy Awards, winning बेहतरीन Male पॉप Vocal प्रदर्शन लिये `` Just the Way तुम हैं ''.
His second studio album, अपरंपरागत ज्यूकबॉक्स, थी released on December 11, 2012.
Mars ' music is noted लिये displaying a wide किस्में of शैलियाँ और influences, और contains तत्व of अनेक musical genres.
he has worked साथ an assortment of artists इससे विभिन्न genres.
as a चाइल्ड, he थी highly बहकावे by artists such as Little Richard, Elvis Presley and माइकल Jackson और would प्रायः impersonate ये artists from a young age.
मंगल also incorporates रेगी - and motown -inspired sounds into उसके कार्य.
विश्वव्यापी, Mars became the best-selling digital artist in 2011.
He था three singles in the top ten, including first प्लेस साथ `` Just the रास्ता You हैं '', which sold 12.5 लाख नक़ल.
मंगल won Best International पुरूष सोलो Artist at the 2012 BRIT पुरस्कार.
ब्रूनो मंगल has sold 6 million एल्बम and 40 million singles worldwide as a singer.
althought as a song-writer, producer and सिंगर उसके कुल सिंगल डाउनलोड sales surpass 100 million विश्वव्यापी.
Bust of ज़ीउस, otricoli ( sala Rotonda, museo pio-clementino, वेटिकन ).
यूनानी mythology is the देह of myths और शिक्षाओं that belong to the ancient Greeks, concerning their gods और नायक, the प्रकृति of the world, और the origins and significance of their अपना cult and ritual practices.
it थी a भाग of the धर्म in ancient यूनानियों and is भाग of धर्म in आधुनिक Greece और around the संसार, ज्ञात as Hellenismos.
आधुनिक scholars refer to and study the myths in an attempt to throw light on the religious और political संस्थानों of Ancient यूनानियों and इसके सभ्यता, and to gain understanding of the प्रकृति of myth-making itself.
यूनानी mythology is explicitly समाविष्ट in a large संग्रहण of narratives, and implicitly in यूनानी representational कला, ऐसे as vase-paintings and votive gifts.
Greek myth कोशिशें to बताइये the origins of the संसार, और विवरण the lives और adventures of a चौड़ी किस्में of gods, goddesses, नायक, heroines, और mythological जीव.
These खाते initially were disseminated in an oral-poetic परंपरा ; आज the यूनानी myths are known primarily from यूनानी साहित्य.
The oldest known Greek साहित्यिक sources, होमर 's epic कविताएं इलियड और ओडिसी, focus on events surrounding the trojan War.
दो कविताएं by Homer 's near समकालीन hesiod, the theogony और the Works and दिनों, contain खाते of the genesis of the संसार, the succession of दैवी शासकों, the succession of human ages, the उत्पत्ति of human woes, and the उत्पत्ति of sacrificial practices.
Myths हैं also preserved in the Homeric hymns, in fragments of एपिक कविताएं of the Epic Cycle, in lyric poems, in the works of the tragedians of the पांचवां सदी BC, in writings of विद्वानों और poets of the Hellenistic आयु, और in ग्रन्थ from the समय of the रोमन Empire by लेखक such as Plutarch and pausanias.
Archaeological निष्कर्षों provide a प्रिंसिपल सोर्स of विवरण परिचय Greek mythology, साथ gods और heroes प्रदर्शित prominently in the सजावट of many artifacts.
Geometric designs on pottery of the आठवीं century BC depict दृश्यों इससे the Trojan cycle as खूब as the adventures of Heracles.
in the succeeding archaic, Classical, and hellenistic periods, homeric और विभिन्न other पौराणिक scenes appear, supplementing the existing literary प्रमाण.
यूनानी mythology रै था an extensive influence on the संस्कृति, कला, और literature of Western civilization and remains part of पश्चिमी विरासत और language.
Poets और कलाकारों from ancient टाइम्स to the उपस्थित have निकला प्रेरणा इससे यूनानी mythology and have खोजा समकालीन significance और relevance in the विषयवस्तु.
Mouth & MacNeal in 1971
Mouth & macneal was a पॉप duo from the नीदरलैंड्स.
They are बेहतरीन known लिये their लाख selling recording of `` How Do तुम do ``.
The Boise State Broncos football कार्यक्रम represents Boise State विश्वविद्यालयों in college फ़ुटबॉल and compete in the Football Bowl subdivision ( fbs ) of प्रभाग I as a member of the पहाड़ वेस्ट सम्मेलन.
वे हैं currently led by head coach Chris Petersen and play उनके home खेल at Bronco स्टेडियम.
the फ़्रैंक ( sign : Fr. or sfr. ; German : franken, फ्रेंच और romansh : फ़्रैंक, Italian : franco ; कोड : chf ) is the currency और विधिक tender of Switzerland और Liechtenstein ; it is भी विधिक टेंडर in the इतालवी exclave Campione d'italia.
हालांकि not formally legal tender in the जर्मनी exclave Büsingen ( the sole legal currency is the यूरोपियन ), it is in wide daily उपयोग वहीँ.
the स्विस National Bank मुद्दे banknotes and the संघीय mint Swissmint मुद्दे coins.
The Swiss फ़्रैंक is the तभी version of the फ़्रैंक still जारी in Europe.
The छोटी denomination, a hundredth of a फ़्रैंक, is a rappen ( rp. ) in German, centime ( c. ) in फ्रेंच, centesimo ( ct. ) in Italian, and rap ( rp. ) in Romansh.
the ISO कोड of the currency used by banks और financial institutions is chf, although `` fr. '' is प्रयुक्त by सबसे businesses और विज्ञापनदाता ; some उपयोग SFr. ; the Latinate `` CH '' स्टैंड for confoederatio helvetica.
Given the different languages प्रयुक्त in Switzerland, Latin is used for language-neutral inscriptions on the coins.
Sir Charles स्पेंसर `` चार्ली '' चैपलिन, ( 16 अप्रैल 188925 दिसम्बर 1977 ) थी a British comic actor and filmmaker who रोज़ to fame in the silent era.
चैपलिन became a विश्वव्यापी प्रतीक through उसके screen persona `` the ट्रैम्प `` and is considered एक of the most important figures of the फिल्मी उद्योग.
His career spanned अधिक than 75 years, from a चाइल्ड in the Victorian era to close to his death at the age of 88, and encompassed दोनो adulation और विवाद.
उठाया in London, Chaplin 's बाल्यकाल थी पारिभाषित by poverty और hardship.
He थी भेजा to a workhouse twice before the age of nine ; his पिता was absent, और his mother was वचनबद्ध to a दिमागी asylum.
चैपलिन began performing from a young age, touring music halls and later working as a स्टेज actor और हास्य.
at 19 he was हस्ताक्षरित to the prestigious फ्रेड Karno company, which took उसे to America.
चैपलिन थी scouted by the film उद्योग, और बना his first दिखावे in 1914 with Keystone studios.
he soon विकसित the Tramp persona और formed a large fan base.
चैपलिन directed उसके films इससे an early stage, and जारी to hone his शिल्प as he moved to the essanay, Mutual, और First नेशनल corporations.
by 1918, he थी एक of the most famous men in the संसार.
in 1919, चैपलिन co-founded the वितरण कम्पनी संयुक्त कलाकारों, giving him पूरा कंट्रोल over उसके films.
उसके पहला feature-length picture थी The Kid ( 1921 ), followed by a स्त्री of Paris ( 1923 ), The सुनहरा फटाफट ( 1925 ), और the सर्कस ( 1928 ).
He refused to मूव to sound films in the 1930s, instead producing नगर Lights ( 1931 ) and आधुनिक टाइम्स ( 1936 ) without dialogue.
Chaplin became increasingly political and his अगला film, The Great Dictator ( 1940 ), satirised एडोल्फ Hitler.
the 1940s was a decade चिह्नित साथ controversy लिये Chaplin, और उसके popularity अस्वीकृत rapidly.
he was अभियुक्त of communist sympathies, while उसके भागीदारी in a paternity suit and marriages to much younger महिलाओं यहूद considered scandalous.
An एफबीआई छानबीन थी खोली on Chaplin, and he was आखिरकार forced to leave the United राज्य और settle in Switzerland.
He abandoned the Tramp for his बाद films, which include Monsieur Verdoux ( 1947 ), limelight ( 1952 ), A किंग in New York ( 1957 ), और a Countess From हांग काँग ( 1967 ).
चैपलिन लिखा, directed, produced, संपादित, scored, and starred in सबसे of his films.
he was a perfectionist, और उसके वित्तीय independence meant he often खर्च years on the development और production of a चित्र.
His films हैं characterised by slapstick संयुक्त साथ pathos, और often feature the ट्रैम्प struggling against adversity.
Many contain सोशल and political विषयवस्तु, as खूब as autobiographical elements.
In 1972, as भाग of a नवीनीकृत सराहना लिये उसके work, चैपलिन प्राप्त an मानद अकादमी पुरस्कार for `` the incalculable प्रभाव he रै था in बनाना गति तस्वीरें the art रूप of this century ''.
He continues to be held in high regard, साथ the Gold Rush, नगर लाइट्स, Modern टाइम्स, and The ग्रेट Dictator often ranked among the greatest films of सब time.
नियोजित Parenthood संघ of अमेरिका ( PPFA ), commonly shortened to Planned parenthood, is the U.S. संबद्ध of the International Planned Parenthood Federation ( IPPF ) and one of इसके larger members.
PPFA is a non-profit संगठन providing reproductive health और मातृ और child स्वास्थ्य services.
the नियोजित parenthood कार्रवाई निधि, inc. ( ppaf ) is a सम्बन्धित organization which lobbies for pro-choice legislation, comprehensive sex education, and अभिगम to सस्ती स्वास्थ्य care in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Planned parenthood is the largest U.S. प्रदाता of reproductive health सेवाएं, सहित कर्कट स्क्रीनिंग, HIV स्क्रीनिंग and counseling, निरोधक, and abortion.
Contraception खाते for 35 % of ppfa 's कुल services और abortions खाता for 3 % ; PPFA conducts roughly 300,000 abortions each साल, among 3 million लोगों served.
the organization has its roots in ब्रुकलीन, New यॉर्क, where Margaret Sanger खोली the देश 's first birth-control clinic.
Sanger founded the American Birth Control League in 1921, जिससे in 1942 became भाग of the नियोजित parenthood संघ of America.
चूंकि then, नियोजित parenthood रै grown to have over 820 क्लिनिक स्थितियाँ in the U.S., साथ a कुल बजट of US $ 1 अरब.
PPFA provides an सरणी of सेवाएं to over तीन लाख people in the संयुक्त States, and supports services for over एक million clients बाहर the संयुक्त States.
Mens rea is लैटिन लिये `` guilty दिमाग ''.
In criminal विधि, it is viewed as एक of the जरुरी तत्व of some अपराधों.
the मानक common law test of criminal देयता is usually expressed in the Latin phrase, actus गैर facit reum nisi पुरुषों बैठना rea, जिससे अर्थात् `` the अधिनियम is नहीं culpable जबतक the mind is guilty ''.
Thus, in jurisdictions साथ due process, there जरूर be an actus reus, or `` अपराधी अधिनियम, '' accompanied by कुछ level of mens rea to constitute the अपराधों with जिससे the प्रतिवादी is चार्ज ( देखिए the तकनीकी आवश्यकता of concurrence ).
as a general नियम, criminal देयता does नहीं attach to a व्यक्ति who acted with the absence of mental दोष.
the एक्सेप्शन is strict liability crimes.
In सिविल विधि, it is प्रायः नहीं जरुरी to prove a subjective दिमागी element to establish liability for breach of अनुबंध or tort, लिये उदाहरण.
however, if a tort is intentionally committed or a अनुबंध is intentionally breached, ऐसे intent may increase the scope of liability as well as the measure of damages देय to the अभियोक्ता.
इसलिए, पुरुषों rea refers to the mental तत्व of the अपराध कि accompanies the actus reus.
in some jurisdictions, the terms पुरुषों rea and actus reus have been replaced by वैकल्पिक terminology.
in Australia, लिये example, the elements of the संघीय offences are अभी designated as `` fault elements '' or `` mental elements '' ( पुरुषों rea ) and `` शारीरिक तत्व '' or `` external elements '' ( actus reus ).
This terminology थी adopted to बदलें the obscurity of the Latin terms साथ सरल and सटीक phrasing.
Ulysses S. Grant ( born Hiram ulysses Grant ; अप्रैल 27, 1822 – July 23, 1885 ) was the 18th President of the संयुक्त States ( 1869–1877 ) following उसके अत्यधिक successful भूमिका as a युद्ध सामान्य in the second हाफ of the सिविल War.
Under Grant, the Union फौज पराजित the confederate सैन्य ; having effectively ended the war and secession with the surrender of रॉबर्ट E. ली 's army at Appomattox.
as अध्यक्ष he led the Radical republicans in their effort to eliminate all vestiges of confederate nationalism and गुलामी.
परेशान over uncontrolled हिंसा in the दक्षिण and having desired to protect African अमरीकी citizenship, President ग्रान्ट effectively नष्ट the ku klux Klan in 1871.
ग्रान्ट थी the पहला अध्यक्ष to स्थापित Civil सेवा reform having created a two-year federally वित्तपोषित Civil Service आयोग in 1871.
in terms of foreign policy, ग्रान्ट नाज़िल an `` अनपेक्षित capacity for विवेचना और consultation '' that प्रचारित the national ब्याज.
His reputation was marred by उसके repeated रक्षा of corrupt appointees, और by America 's first industrial आयु economic अवसाद ( पुकारा the `` Panic of 1873 `` ) that वर्चस्व his second पद.
हालांकि उसके Republican Party विभाजित in 1872 with reformers denouncing him, ग्रान्ट थी easily reelected.
by 1875 the रूढ़िवादी white Southern विपक्ष regained control of every राज्य in the दक्षिण और as he left the White House in कूच 1877 his नीतियों were होने undone.
a करियर soldier, he graduated from the संयुक्त States Military अकादमी at वेस्ट पाइंट and served in the Mexican–American युद्ध.
जब the Civil War began in 1861, ग्रान्ट trained संघ स्वयंसेवी regiments in Illinois.
in 1862, as a सामान्य he fought a श्रेणी of battles और थी promoted to प्रमुख general after forcing the आत्मसमर्पण of a विशाल confederate फौज and gaining कंट्रोल of केंटकी और सबसे of Tennessee.
He then led Union शक्तियां to victory after आरंभिक setbacks in the Battle of Shiloh, कमाई a reputation as an aggressive कमांडर.
in जुलाई 1863, बाद a long, जटिल campaign, ग्रान्ट defeated पाँच uncoordinated Confederate सेना ( capturing one of उन्हें ) और seized vicksburg.
This प्रसिद्ध विजय दिया the Union full कंट्रोल of the मिसिसिपी नदी, split बंद the पश्चिमी confederacy, and opened the रास्ता for अधिक Union triumphs.
बाद another win at the बैटल of चट्टानूगा in late 1863, अध्यक्ष अब्राहम lincoln बना उसे लेफ्टिनेंट सामान्य और कमांडर of सब of the संघ Armies.
as commanding सामान्य of the फौज, ग्रान्ट confronted रॉबर्ट E. Lee in a series of बहुत खूनी battles in 1864 ज्ञात as the overland अभियान that ended with the bottling up of Lee at पीटर्सबर्ग, बाहर the confederate पूंजी of Richmond.
During the siege, Grant coordinated a series of devastating अभियान launched by William tecumseh Sherman, Philip Sheridan, और George थामस.
आखिरकार breaking through Lee 's trenches, the Union फौज captured Richmond in अप्रैल 1865.
Lee surrendered his depleted forces to ग्रान्ट at Appomattox as the Confederacy collapsed.
Although pro-Confederate historians attacked ग्रान्ट as a निष्ठुर butcher जो जीती by brute force, most historians have hailed उसके military प्रतिभाशाली.
Grant 's दो लगातार शर्तें as President stabilized the nation after the American Civil युद्ध और during the turbulent पुनर्निर्माण काल that followed.
as president, he enforced Reconstruction by enforcing civil rights laws और fighting Ku klux क्लान violence.
Grant won ड्योढ़ी of the पंद्रहवीं Amendment ; giving constitutional सुरक्षा लिये African-American voting rights.
he used the army to निर्माण the Republican Party in the दक्षिण, based on black मतदाता, उत्तरी newcomers ( `` carpetbaggers `` ) and native श्वेत supporters ( `` scalawags. '' )
as a result, अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी were represented in the u.S. Congress for the पहला time in American history in 1870.
reformers praised ग्रान्ट 's Indian सलाम नीति by having broken the deadlock on भारतीय appropriations in कॉंग्रेस, the creation of the Board of भारतीय commissioners to मेक reform सुझाव, and his enlistment of Quaker protestants who नियंत्रित मिड western Indian agencies, कि effectively curbed congressional patronage.
Grant remained संकल्पित in keeping Indians from होने exterminated इससे white settler अतिक्रमण or by the U.S. सैन्य.
Grant 's प्रतिष्ठा as अध्यक्ष by 1875 थी at an all-time ऊँची लिये उसके previous वीटो of the Inflation विधेयक, the ड्योढ़ी of the Resumption of specie Act, और Secretary Bristow 's successful raids कि shut down the whiskey Ring.
Grant 's foreign policy, led by Secretary of State Hamilton Fish, implemented International मध्यस्थता, settled the अलबामा दावा with Britain and avoided युद्ध with स्पेन over the virginius affair.
A ज्यूकबॉक्स is a partially automated music-playing यंत्र, प्रायः a coin-operated यंत्र, कि will खेल a patron 's selection इससे self-contained media.
the क्लासिक ज्यूकबॉक्स has buttons साथ अक्षर and संख्याएँ on them that, when डाला in संयोजन, are प्रयुक्त to खेल a specific selection.
A ड्रग test is a तकनीकी विश्लेषण of a biological specimen – for example urine, hair, रक्त, स्वेद, or oral fluid / लार – to determine the presence or अनुपस्थिति of specified parent दवाएँ or उनके metabolites.
Major उपयोग of drug testing are to detect the उपस्थिति of प्रदर्शन enhancing steroids in खेल or लिये दवाएँ prohibited by कानून, ऐसे as cannabis, कोका and हेरोइन.
A `` 10-panel मूत्र स्क्रीन '' consists of the following:
Amphetamines ( including methamphetamine )
barbiturates
benzodiazepines
Cannabinoids ( thc )
Cocaine
Methadone
methaqualone
Opiates ( codeine, Morphine, Heroin, oxycodone, Hydrocodone, इत्यादि. )
Phencyclidine ( pcp )
propoxyphene
Saturn V rocket, used लिये the अमरीकी मानवयुक्त चंद्र landing मिशन
Space exploration is the डिस्कवरी और खोजी of outer space by means of स्पेस प्रौद्योगिकी.
शारीरिक exploration of space is conducted both by इंसान spaceflights and by robotic spacecraft.
जबकि the observation of objects in space, ज्ञात as खगोलशास्त्र, predates विश्वसनीय अंकित history, it थी the development of विशाल and अपेक्षाकृत कुशल rockets दौरान the early 20th century that अनुमत physical space exploration to become a reality.
आम rationales for exploring स्पेस include advancing scientific शोध, uniting अलग राष्ट्र, ensuring the future अस्तित्व of मानवता and developing military and strategic advantages against other countries.
विभिन्न आलोचनाओं of स्पेस खोजी हैं sometimes बना.
Space खोजी has प्रायः महरूम प्रयुक्त as a proxy competition for geopolitical rivalries ऐसे as the Cold War.
the जल्दी era of स्पेस खोजी was driven by a `` स्पेस रेस `` between the Soviet Union और the United States, the launch of the पहला man-made object to orbit the Earth, the ussr 's sputnik 1, on 4 अक्तूबर 1957, and the पहला चंद्रमा लैंडिंग by the American अपोलो 11 craft on 20 July 1969 are often taken as the सीमाएँ लिये इस आरंभिक काल.
The सोवियत space कार्यक्रम achieved अनेक of the first milestones, सहित the first जीना being in कक्षा in 1957, the पहला human spaceflight ( Yuri Gagarin aboard Vostok 1 ) in 1961, the first spacewalk ( by Aleksei Leonov ) on 18 March 1965, the first automatic landing on another celestial body in 1966, and the लॉन्च of the first space station ( salyut 1 ) in 1971.
बाद the पहला 20 years of exploration, फ़ोकस shifted from one-off फ़्लाइट to बेदर्दी hardware, such as the स्पेस Shuttle कार्यक्रम, and इससे competition to सहयोग as साथ the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Space Station ( iss ).
साथ the substantial पूर्णता of the ISS following STS-133 in कूच 2011, योजनाएँ for स्पेस exploration by the यूएसए remain in फ्लक्स.
नक्षत्र, a बुश प्रशासन कार्यक्रम for a return to the चंद्रमा by 2020 थी judged inadequately वित्तपोषित और unrealistic by an expert पुनर्विलोकन panel reporting in 2009.
the Obama प्रशासन proposed a revision of Constellation in 2010 to फ़ोकस on the विकास of the capability for crewed मिशन beyond कम धरती orbit ( LEO ), envisioning extending the आपरेशन of the ISS beyond 2020, transferring the विकास of लॉन्च vehicles for human crews इससे नासा to the निजी sector, and developing technology to enable missions to beyond leo, such as Earth/Moon l1, the Moon, earth/sun L2, near-earth asteroids, and phobos or मंगल orbit.
As of कूच 2011, the US Senate और House of Representatives are still working towards a compromise NASA funding विधेयक, जिससे will संभवतः terminate नक्षत्र and निधि विकास of a भारी lift लॉन्च vehicle ( hllv ).
in the 2000s, the People 's गणतंत्र of चीन initiated a कामयाब manned spaceflight program, जबकि the European संघ, Japan, और इण्डिया have also planned भविष्य मानवयुक्त space मिशन.
China, रूस, Japan, and इण्डिया have advocated मानवयुक्त मिशन to the Moon during the 21st सदी, जबकि the European Union has advocated मानवयुक्त missions to both the Moon और मंगल during the 21st century.
इससे the 1990s onwards, निजी रूचि began promoting space पर्यटन और then private space खोजी of the Moon ( देखिए Google चंद्र X पुरस्कार ).
जॉन calvin कूलिज, jr. ( जुलाई 4, 1872january 5, 1933 ) थी the 30th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States ( 1923–1929 ).
A रिपब्लिकन lawyer इससे वर्मांट, कूलिज worked his way up the सीढ़ियाँ of Massachusetts राज्य politics, eventually बनने राज्यपाल of कि state.
His conduct during the बोस्टन पुलिस स्ट्राइक of 1919 thrust उसे into the नेशनल स्पॉटलाइट and दिया him a reputation as a man of decisive कार्रवाई.
Soon after, he was elected as the 29th Vice अध्यक्ष in 1920 और succeeded to the प्रेसिडेंसी upon the sudden मौत of वारेन G. Harding in 1923.
निर्वाचित in उसके अपना right in 1924, he gained a प्रतिष्ठा as a small-government conservative, और भी as a man जो said बहुत छोटी.
Coolidge restored public विश्वास in the White House बाद the घोटालों of his पूर्ववर्ती 's प्रशासन, और left office साथ considerable लोकप्रियता.
As a कूलिज biographer put it, `` He embodied the spirit और hopes of the middle क्लास, could interpret their longings and express उनके opinions.
That he did represent the genius of the औसत is the most convincing प्रमाण of his strength. ''
कुछ later criticized कूलिज as part of a सामान्य criticism of laissez-faire सरकारी.
His reputation underwent a पुनर्जागरण during the Ronald reagan प्रशासन, but the परम मूल्यांकन of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी is still divided between those जो approve of उसके कटौती of the आकार of सरकारी programs and those who believe the federal government चाहिए be more शामिल in regulating and controlling the अर्थव्यवस्था.
Espresso is a concentrated पेय brewed by forcing a छोटी amount of nearly boiling water अंतर्गत pressure through finely मैदान कॉफी beans.
एस्प्रेसो प्रायः रै a thicker संगति than coffee brewed by अन्य विधि, a उच्चतर concentration of निलंबित और dissolved solids, और crema ( अर्थ cream, but होने a reference to the झाग साथ a creamy बनावट that फ़ॉर्म as a result of the pressure ).
as a result of the pressurized brewing प्रक्रम the flavors और chemicals in a typical कप of espresso हैं बहुत concentrated.
एस्प्रेसो is the आधार for other drinks, such as a latte, कापुचीनो, macchiato, मोचा, or americano.
एस्प्रेसो रै more caffeine प्रति ईकाई volume than सबसे beverages, but the usual serving आकार is smaller—a ठेठ 60 ml ( 2 US द्रव ounce ) of espresso has 80 to 150 mg of कैफीन, छोटी less than the 95 to 200 mg of a मानक 240 ml ( 8 US द्रव औंस ) cup of drip-brewed coffee.
ब्रायन Keith केली ( born अक्तूबर 25, 1961 ) is an American football कोच and पूर्व player.
he is currently the सिर फ़ुटबॉल कोच for the notre Dame लड़ Irish, a स्थिति he has held since December 2009.
केली was previously head कोच at Grand घाटी State विश्वविद्यालयों ( 1991–2003 ), सेंट्रल मिशिगन विश्वविद्यालयों ( 2004–2006 ), और विश्वविद्यालयों of Cincinnati ( 2006–2009 ).
a अनुबंध is an agreement having a lawful ऑब्जेक्ट डाला into voluntarily by दो or more parties, प्रत्येक of whom intends to बनाएँ one or more legal दायित्वों between उन्हें.
The elements of a contract are `` offer '' और `` acceptance '' by `` competent व्यक्तियों '' having विधिक capacity who एक्सचेंज `` consideration '' to बनाएँ `` mutuality of दायित्व. ''
प्रमाण of some or सब of these तत्व may be done in लिखने, though अनुबंध may be made entirely orally or by conduct.
The remedy लिये उल्लंघन of अनुबंध can be `` damages '' in the form of मुआवजे of धन or विशिष्ट प्रदर्शन enforced through an आदेश.
दोनो of these remedies पुरस्कार the party at घाटा the `` लाभ of the bargain '' or expectation क्षतिपूर्ति, जिससे are वृहद than mere रिलायंस क्षतिपूर्ति, as in promissory estoppel.
The parties may be प्राकृतिक व्यक्तियों or juristic व्यक्तियों.
a contract is a legally enforceable वादा or undertaking कि कुछ will or will नहीं occur.
the शब्द promise can be used as a विधिक पर्याय for contract, हालांकि परवाह is जरूरी as a promise may नहीं have the full standing of a अनुबंध, as when it is an agreement without consideration.
अनुबंध law varies greatly from एक क्षेत्राधिकार to another, सहित differences in आम law compared to सिविल विधि, the प्रभाव of प्राप्त law, विशेषकर इससे इंग्लैण्ड in आम विधि देशों, and of विधि संहिताबद्ध in क्षेत्रीय विधान.
Regarding ऑस्ट्रेलियाई अनुबंध Law for उदाहरण, there are 40 relevant acts which प्रभाव on the interpretation of contract at the राष्ट्रमंडल ( Federal / नेशनल ) स्तर, और an additional 26 अधिनियमों at the स्तर of the राज्य of NSW.
In addition there are 6 international यंत्र or conventions जिससे हैं applicable लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय dealings, such as the संयुक्त राष्ट्र Convention on Contracts for the International बिक्री of goods.
sidney Patrick Crosby, ons ( born अगस्त 7, 1987 ) is a Canadian professional बर्फ हॉकी खिलाड़ी जो is कप्तान of the पिट्सबर्ग Penguins of the National हॉकी लीग ( NHL ).
Crosby थी drafted पहला overall by the penguins आउट of the क्यूबेक प्रमुख Junior हॉकी लीग ( QMJHL ).
During उसके two-year प्रमुख जूनियर करियर with the rimouski océanic, he अर्जित back-to-back CHL Player of the Year awards and led his club to the 2005 मेमोरियल कप फाइनल.
Nicknamed `` the अगला एक ``, he थी एक of the सबसे highly regarded ड्राफ्ट चयन in हॉकी इतिहास, leading अनेक to refer to the 2005 ड्राफ्ट Lottery as the `` sidney crosby Sweepstakes ''.
in उसके first NHL season, Crosby समाप्त sixth in लीग scoring with 102 points ( 39 लक्ष्य, 63 assists ) और was a runner-up for the Calder Memorial ट्रॉफी ( won by सिकंदर Ovechkin ).
By his second ऋतु, he led the NHL with 120 अंक ( 36 goals, 84 assists ) to कैप्चर the आर्ट Ross Trophy, बनने the youngest player and the only किशोरावस्था to जीत a स्कोरिंग शीर्षक in any major उत्तर American खेल लीग.
कि वही ऋतु, Crosby also won the Hart मेमोरियल ट्रॉफी as the Professional Hockey लेखक Association 's choice लिये सबसे valuable player और the लेस्टर B. पियर्सन पुरस्कार as the NHL Players संघ 's choice लिये सबसे बकाया player, becoming the सातवाँ खिलाड़ी in NHL history to earn all तीन awards in एक year.
Crosby प्रारंभ the 2007–08 ऋतु साथ the team 's कप्तानी और subsequently led them to the 2008 Stanley Cup फाइनल, जहाँ they यहूद defeated by the डेट्रॉयट Red Wings in six games.
The penguins returned to the Finals against डेट्रॉयट the following साल and won in seven खेल ; Crosby became the youngest कप्तान in NHL history to win the Stanley कप.
in the 2009–10 ऋतु, Crosby scored a career-high 51 goals, tying उसे with Steven stamkos for the प्रक्षेपास्त्र रिचर्ड ट्रॉफी as the league-leader ; with 58 assists, he totaled 109 अंक, second in the NHL.
दौरान the off-season, crosby प्राप्त the चिह्नित Messier नेतृत्व Award.
in 2010–11, crosby sustained a concussion as a result of हिट्स to the head in back-to-back games.
the injury left him sidelined लिये टेन and a half months.
however, after playing eight games in the 2011–12 season, crosby 's concussion-like लक्षण returned in दिसम्बर 2011, and he did not return until mid-march 2012.
Internationally, Crosby रै represented कनाडा in numerous tournaments for the country 's जूनियर और men 's teams.
बाद competing in the 2003 u-18 जूनियर संसार कप, he represented कनाडा in back-to-back IIHF World U20 championships, winning silver in 2004 और gold in 2005.
at the 2006 iihf संसार चैंपियनशिप, he led the tournament in स्कोरिंग, जबकि भी कमाई Top आगे और all-star Team honours.
चार years later, crosby was named to Team Canada for the 2010 शीत Olympics in वैंकूवर.
playing the संयुक्त राज्य in the gold medal खेल, he scored the game-winning लक्ष्य in overtime.
a United States cent, also known as a penny.
`` My two cents '' ( 2¢ ) and its longer version `` put my two cents in '' is an संयुक्त राज्य ( US ) idiomatic expression, taken इससे the असली English idiom अभिव्यक्ति : to put in `` my two कौड़ी लायक '' or `` my tuppence worth. ''
it is used to preface the अंतरिम stating of one’s राय.
By विरोधात्मक the राय to follow – suggesting its value is तभी two सेंट, a बहुत छोटी amount – the user of the phrase उम्मीदें to lessen the प्रभाव of a possibly statement, showing politeness और humility.
However, it is also sometimes प्रयुक्त साथ विडंबना जब expressing a strongly लगा राय.
the phrase is also प्रयुक्त out of आदत to preface uncontentious opinions.
लिये example:
The चाइनीज सिविल युद्ध was a civil war in China fought between forces loyal to the government of the गणतंत्र of China led by the Kuomintang ( kmt ) और शक्तियां of the Communist Party of चीन ( CPC ).
The युद्ध began in अप्रैल 1927, amidst the उत्तरी expedition, and essentially ended जब प्रमुख active battles ceased in 1950.
the conflict eventually resulted in two de facto states, the Republic of चीन ( ROC ) in Taiwan and the लोगों 's Republic of चीन ( PRC ) in mainland China, both claiming to be the legitimate सरकारी of China.
the युद्ध represented an वैचारिक विभाजित ( Left vs. Right ) between the Communist CPC, and the kmt 's brand of Nationalism.
the civil युद्ध continued intermittently until late 1937, when the दो पार्टियों formed a Second संयुक्त सामने to काउंटर a Japanese invasion.
चीन 's full-scale civil युद्ध resumed in 1946, a year बाद the end of hostilities with Japan.
After four more years, 1950 देखी the cessation of major military hostilities—with the newly संस्थापित People 's Republic of China controlling mainland चीन ( सहित Hainan ), और the Republic of चीन 's jurisdiction होने प्रतिबंधित to ताईवान, penghu, quemoy, matsu और अनेक outlying islands.
the Kuomintang शिकस्त is attributed to several factors : Corruption - च्यांग लिखा in his डायरी on June 1948 that the kmt था failed, not because of external enemies लकिन क्युकी of दुर्गन्ध इससे within.
दमदार initial support इससे the u.S. diminished, और तब, stopped.
( partly क्युकी of kmt corruption और anti-democratic शासन, और partly because of the अनिश्चित U.S. विदेशी policy towards साम्यवादी between 1945 और 1950 ) ; Communist जमीन सुधार policy promised poor peasants farmland इससे their जमींदार.
इस ensured pla popular support.
बाद the आत्मसमर्पण of Japan at the end of World War ii, Soviet शक्तियां turned over उनके captured Japanese हथियार to the cpc and अनुमत the cpc to take control of territory in Manchuria.
To this day, no armistice or सलाम treaty has ever महरूम हस्ताक्षरित, और it is debated as to the whether the Civil युद्ध has legally ended.
Cross-Strait संबंध have महरूम hindered by military threats और राजनैतिक और आर्थिक दबाव, particularly over Taiwan 's political औकात, with both governments officially adhering to a `` one-china नीति. ''
the पीआरसी स्टिल actively दावा ताईवान as भाग of its territory और continues to threaten the आरओसी साथ a military आक्रमण if the आरओसी officially declares independence by बदलना इसके name to and gaining अंतरराष्ट्रीय recognition as the Republic of Taiwan.
The ROC mutually दावा mainland चीन, and they both continue the लड़ो over diplomatic मान्यता.
आज, the war as such occurs on the political and आर्थिक fronts in the रूप of cross-Strait relations ; however, the two पृथक de facto राज्य have close आर्थिक ties.
The One सौ बारहवीं United States कॉंग्रेस थी the बैठक of the legislative branch of the संयुक्त States संघीय government, इससे January 3, 2011 until January 3, 2013.
It convened in वॉशिंगटन, D.C. on जनवरी 3, 2011, और ended on जनवरी 3, 2013, 17 days पहले the समाप्त of the presidential term to जिससे बराक ओबामा थी निर्वाचित in 2008.
Senators निर्वाचित to regular शर्तें in 2006 समाप्त those शर्तें in this Congress.
इस Congress शामिल the last House of Representatives elected इससे congressional districts कि were apportioned आधारित on the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
in the 2010 midterm elections, the रिपब्लिकन Party won the majority in the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि.
जबकि the डेमोक्रेट kept उनके सीनेट बहुमत, it थी reduced इससे the previous कॉंग्रेस.
This was the first कॉंग्रेस in which the House और Senate यहूद controlled by अलग parties चूंकि the 107th कॉंग्रेस ( 2001–2003 ), and the पहला कॉंग्रेस to begin that way since the 99th कॉंग्रेस ( 1985–1987 ).
In इस Congress, the House of Representatives था the largest number of Republican सदस्यों, 242, चूंकि the 80th कॉंग्रेस ( 1947–1949 ).
It was also the first कॉंग्रेस since 1947 in which no member of the Kennedy family परोसा, as well as the सबसे politically polarized कॉंग्रेस since पुनर्निर्माण, साथ रिकार्ड low स्वीकृति ratings.
Wealth in the United राज्य is commonly measured in terms of net worth, जिससे is the sum of all एसेट, सहित घर equity, ऋण all देनदारी.
the कुल net worth of US households and nonprofit संगठन 1945–2009, unadjusted for inflation or population बदलें.
लिये example, a household in possession of an $ 800,000 house, $ 5,000 in mutual funds, $ 30,000 in cars, $ 20,000 worth of भण्डार in उनके own कम्पनी, और a $ 45,000 ira होता have एसेट totaling $ 900,000.
assuming that this household would have a $ 250,000 बंधक, $ 40,000 in car लोन, और $ 10,000 in credit card debt, इसके debts would कुल $ 300,000.
Subtracting the debts from the लायक of इस household 's एसेट ( 900,000 - $ 300,000 = $ 600,000 ), इस household would have a जाल लायक of $ 600,000.
जाल लायक can vary with fluctuations in value of the underlying एसेट.
the wealth —more specifically, the मध्य जाल worth—of households in the संयुक्त राज्य is varied with संबंध to race, शिक्षा, geographic स्थान और gender.
As one होता expect, households साथ वृहद income feature the उच्चतम net worths, though high income can नहीं be लिया as an सदा accurate indicator of net worth.
Overall the क्रमांक of wealthier households is on the rise, with baby boomers hitting the highs of their करियर.
in जोड, माल is unevenly वितरित, with the wealthiest 25 % of us households owning 87 % of the माल in the संयुक्त राज्य, जिससे was $ 54.2 खरब in 2009.
सहित human पूंजी ऐसे as skills, the संयुक्त Nations अनुमानित the total wealth of the संयुक्त राज्य in 2008 to be $ 118 trillion.
इस आलेख deals साथ चयनात्मक पृष्ठीय rhizotomy ( SDR ) बल्कि than the rhizotomy procedures लिये pain राहत ; लिये those प्रक्रियाओं, जिससे have begun to लो the name `` rhizotomy '' in certain उदाहरण, see facet rhizotomy और similar.
a rhizotomy ( ) is a पद chiefly referring to a neurosurgical कार्यविधि that selectively destroys समस्यापूर्ण तंत्रिका जड़ें in the स्पाइनल cord, सबसे प्रायः to relieve the symptoms of neuromuscular conditions such as spastic diplegia और other forms of spastic दिमागी palsy.
The selective dorsal rhizotomy ( SDR ) for spastic दिमागी palsy has महरूम the main उपयोग of rhizotomy for neurosurgeons specialising in spastic CP since the 1980s ; in this सर्जरी, the spasticity-causing nerves are isolated and तब targeted और नष्ट.
The sensory nerve roots, where spasticity is स्तिथ, are first अलग इससे the मोटर ones, और the तंत्रिका fibres to be cut are then identified via electromyographic stimulation.
The ones producing spasticity हैं then selectively lesioned with tiny विद्युत pulses.
In spasticity, rhizotomy precisely targets and नष्ट the क्षतिग्रस्त nerves that don’t receive gamma amino butyric acid, जिससे is the कोर problem for लोगों साथ spastic cerebral palsy.
ये over-firing, non-GABA-absorbing nerves generate असामान्य electrical कार्यकलाप during the EMG परीक्षण phase in sdr and हैं thus माना to be the सोर्स of the patient 's hypertonia ; वे are eliminated साथ the विद्युत pulses एकबार identified, while the remaining nerves और nerve रूट carrying the correct messages remain fully बरकरार और untouched.
This means कि the spasticity is permanently dissolved, and that this is किया without affecting बेचैन प्रणाली sensitivity or फलन in अन्य क्षेत्रों, because the तभी nerves नष्ट हैं the over-firing ones responsible for the muscle tightness.
the terms rhizotomy और neurotomy are also increasingly बनने interchangeable in the उपचार of chronic back pain from अपक्षयी disc disease.
This is a procedure पुकारा a facet rhizotomy and is नहीं a सर्जिकल कार्यविधि लकिन is बजाय किया on an outpatient basis using a simple जांच to लागू radiofrequency लहरें to the impinged pain-causing nerve रूट lying between the facet संयुक्त और the vertebral body.
ऐसे रेडियो frequency तंत्रिका lesioning परिणाम in five to आठ or अधिक months of पीड़ा राहत before the nerve regenerates और another round of the कार्यविधि needs to be performed.
a facet rhizotomy is just one of many different forms of radiofrequency ablation, and its use of the `` rhizotomy '' name should not be confused with the sdr procedure.
Migrant मजदूर in California, 1935
The पद migrant worker रै अलग official meanings and connotations in different भाग of the संसार.
the United राष्ट्र ' definition is व्यापक, including any people working outside of their घर देश.
the पद can also be प्रयुक्त to describe someone who migrates within a देश, possibly उनके अपना, in order to pursue work such as मौसमी work.
फोटोग्राफ of लील वेन साथ teardrop टैटू नीचे उसके आँखें.
The teardrop टैटू or tear tattoo is a सांकेतिक टैटू that is placed underneath the eye.
it रै no फिक्स्ड अर्थ but almost all meanings ( देखिए नीचे ) have some कनेक्शन to prison.
U.S. Route 75 is a north–south U.S. राजमार्ग.
the highway 's उत्तरी terminus is in kittson County, मिनेसोटा, at the Canadian border, where it once जारी as मनिटोबा राजमार्ग 75 on the अन्य पक्ष of the now-closed border crossing.
Its दक्षिणी terminus is at अंतरराज्यीय 30 and अंतरराज्यीय 45 in डलास, Texas, where it is known as उत्तर सेंट्रल Expressway.
u.S. 75 was a border-to-border route, from Canada to the गल्फ of Mexico at Galveston, टेक्सास.
however, the संपूर्ण खण्ड south of डलास, Texas has महरूम decommissioned in favor of Interstate 45, a cutoff section of town-to-town सतह सड़क having become राज्य Highway 75.
निम्नतर Ninth वार्ड is a neighborhood of the नगर of New Orleans.
as the name implies, it is भाग of the नवीं वार्ड of नई Orleans.
The निम्नतर Ninth वार्ड is प्रायः विचार of as the संपूर्ण area भीतर नई ऑरलियन्स downriver of the औद्योगिक कनाल ; however, the City नियोजन Commission divides इस क्षेत्रफल into the Lower Ninth वार्ड ( 2 ) और Holy Cross ( 3 ) neighborhoods.
the term `` निम्नतर '' refers to its location दूर towards the मुँह of the Mississippi नदी, `` down '' or `` नीचे '' the बाकी of the city in लोकल भौगोलिक शब्दावली.
But the 9th वार्ड, like सब Wards in New Orleans, is a voting ज़िला.
the 9th Ward थी added as a मतदान district in 1852.
the `` निम्नतर '' 9th Ward is रचित of वार्ड 9 जिले 1, 2, 4, और 7 जिससे मेक up the Holy क्रॉस क्षेत्रफल और वार्ड 9 Districts 3, 5, 6, और 8.
उच्चतर मतदान ज़िला संख्याएँ in the 9th Ward ( 8-27 ) हैं on the upriver side of the औद्योगिक कनाल.
the क्षेत्रफल आए to नेशनल attention for its devastation in the aftermath of Hurricane कैटरीना in 2005.
Hubble दृश्य of Copernicus crater ( inset ), जिससे is परिचय 58 miles ( 93 km ) wide
Red और orange tinted Moon, as देखी from Earth during a lunar eclipse, जहाँ the धरती आता between the चंद्रमा और Sun
The Moon is the तभी प्राकृतिक उपग्रह of the Earth, and the fifth largest satellite in the सौर System.
It is the largest प्राकृतिक उपग्रह of a planet in the Solar System सापेक्ष to the आकार of its primary, having 27 % the diameter और 60 % the density of धरती, resulting in इसके द्रव्यमान.
The चंद्रमा is the दूसरी densest उपग्रह बाद io, a उपग्रह of Jupiter.
the Moon is in synchronous rotation साथ धरती, always showing the same face साथ इसके निकट पक्ष चिह्नित by अंधेरा volcanic मरिया कि भरण between the bright प्राचीन crustal highlands और the prominent impact craters.
it is the brightest ऑब्जेक्ट in the sky after the सूर्य, although इसके सतह is actually बहुत dark, with a reflectance समान to कि of coal.
इसके prominence in the आसमान और इसके regular cycle of phases have, चूंकि ancient times, बना the चंद्रमा an महत्वपूर्ण सांस्कृतिक influence on language, पंचांग, आर्ट और mythology.
the Moon 's gravitational influence produces the समंदर tides and the मिनट lengthening of the day.
The चंद्रमा 's current orbital अलहदा, about thirty times the व्यास of the Earth, causes it to appear almost the same आकार in the sky as the सूर्य, allowing it to cover the सूर्य nearly precisely in total सौर eclipses.
This मिलान of apparent विज़ुअल आकार is a संयोग.
the चंद्रमा 's रैखिक distance इससे the Earth is फिलहाल increasing at a rate of 3.82±0.07cm प्रति year, but this रेट is not निरंतर.
The Moon is thought to have formed nearly 4.5 अरब सालो पहले, नहीं long बाद the Earth.
हालांकि there have been several hypotheses लिये इसके उत्पत्ति in the past, the वर्तमान सबसे widely स्वीकृत explanation is कि the Moon formed इससे the debris बाएँ over after a giant impact between Earth और a Mars -आकारd body.
The Moon is the तभी celestial देह other than Earth on जिससे इंसानो have नियत पैर.
the सोवियत Union 's Luna कार्यक्रम was the first to पहुँचें the Moon with unmanned spacecraft in 1959 ; the संयुक्त States ' नासा Apollo कार्यक्रम achieved the only manned missions to date, शुरूआत साथ the first मानवयुक्त चंद्र orbiting mission by अपोलो 8 in 1968, and छह मानवयुक्त चंद्र अवतरण between 1969 और 1972, साथ the पहला होने अपोलो 11.
These missions लौटे over 380 kg of चंद्र रॉक्स, which have महरूम used to develop a geological understanding of the चंद्रमा 's origins, the formation of its internal ढांचा, and इसके subsequent history.
बाद the अपोलो 17 mission in 1972, the चंद्रमा रै been visited only by unmanned spacecraft, notably by the फाइनल सोवियत lunokhod rover.
चूंकि 2004, जापानी, चीन, India, the United States, और the European स्पेस Agency have प्रत्येक sent lunar orbiters.
ये spacecraft have contributed to confirming the डिस्कवरी of चंद्र water बर्फ in permanently shadowed craters at the poles और बंधी into the चंद्र regolith.
भविष्य मानवयुक्त मिशन to the चंद्रमा have महरूम planned, सहित government as well as privately funded प्रयत्न.
the चंद्रमा remains, under the Outer Space सन्धि, free to सब nations to explore for शांतिपूर्ण purposes.
रोनाल्ड विल्सन Reagan ( ; February 6, 1911 – जून 5, 2004 ) was the 40th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States ( 1981–1989 ).
Prior to that, he was the 33rd Governor of कैलिफ़ोर्निया ( 1967–1975 ), and a रेडियो, film and टेलीविज़न actor.
born in Tampico, Illinois, और raised in डिक्सन, reagan थी educated at Eureka कॉलेज, कमाई a Bachelor of Arts degree in अर्थशास्त्र and समाजशास्त्र.
बाद graduating, reagan moved पहला to Iowa to कार्य as a रेडियो broadcaster और तब, in 1937, to लॉस एंजिल्स where he began a करियर as an actor, first in films and बाद television.
Some of his most notable films शामिल Knute rockne, सब American ( 1940 ), Kings Row ( 1942 ), और bedtime लिये bonzo ( 1951 ).
Reagan परोसा as अध्यक्ष of the स्क्रीन Actors Guild और बाद as a प्रवक्ता for General इलेक्ट्रिक ( ge ) ; उसके प्रारंभ in politics occurred during उसके कार्य for GE.
Originally a सदस्य of the Democratic पार्टी, उसके positions began shifting rightward in the 1950s, और he switched to the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी in 1962.
After delivering a rousing वाक in support of Barry goldwater 's अध्यक्षीय candidacy in 1964, he was persuaded to तलाश the कैलिफ़ोर्निया governorship, winning दो years later and again in 1970.
he was पराजित in his run लिये the Republican presidential nomination in 1968 and in 1976, लकिन जीती both the नामांकन और general election in 1980, defeating लाज़िम jimmy कार्टर.
as president, reagan implemented sweeping new राजनैतिक and आर्थिक पहलों.
उसके supply-side आर्थिक policies, उतावले `` Reaganomics ``, advocated reducing tax rates to spur economic growth, controlling the money सप्लाई to reduce inflation, deregulation of the अर्थव्यवस्था, and reducing government spending.
In his first पद he survived an assassination attempt, took a hard line विरूद्ध मजदूर unions, announced a new War on Drugs, and ordered an invasion of Grenada.
He थी re-elected in a landslide in 1984, proclaiming कि it थी `` Morning in America ``.
उसके दूसरी term थी primarily चिह्नित by विदेशी matters, ऐसे as the ending of the ठंडा War, the 1986 bombing of लीबिया, और the रहस्योद्घाटन of the Iran-Contra affair.
सरेआम describing the सोवियत संघ as an `` दुष्ट साम्राज्य ``, he समर्थित anti-communist आंदोलनों विश्वव्यापी और spent उसके first पद forgoing the रणनीति of détente by ordering a विशाल military buildup in an arms race साथ the ussr.
Reagan negotiated साथ Soviet General सचिव मिखाइल Gorbachev, culminating in the INF Treaty और the घटी of both देशों ' nuclear arsenals.
reagan बाएँ दफ्तर in 1989.
in 1994, the former अध्यक्ष disclosed कि he had महरूम diagnosed with Alzheimer 's बीमारी earlier in the year ; he died टेन सालो बाद at the age of 93.
A conservative icon, he बाँधने highly in पब्लिक opinion पोल of u.S. Presidents and is credited लिये generating an ideological पुनर्जागरण on the American political right.
Complete नियत of scrolls, constituting the संपूर्ण Tanakh.
The Tanakh (, or ; भी tenakh, tenak, tanach ) is a name used in Judaism लिये the canon of the यहूदी Bible.
The tanakh is also known as the masoretic Text or the Miqra.
The name is an एक्रोनिम formed इससे the आरंभिक Hebrew अक्षर of the Masoretic Text 's three traditional subdivisions : the तोरा ( `` शिक्षण '', भी known as the पाँच किताबे of Moses ), Nevi'im ( `` नबियों '' ) और Ketuvim ( `` कृतियाँ '' ) —hence TaNaKh.
The name `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ), meaning `` कि which is read '', is an alternative Hebrew term for the tanakh.
the books of the tanakh were relayed साथ an accompanying मौखिक परंपरा passed on by each पीढी, called the Oral Torah.
The Kawasaki Ninja ZX-6R is a Kawasaki 600 cc क्लास sport मोटरसाइकिल.
It was introduced in 1995, और has महरूम constantly अद्यतनीकृत throughout the years in जवाब to new products from Honda, suzuki, and Yamaha.
the zx श्रेणी is what was known as the Ninja लकीर of कावासाकी मोटरसाइकिल in the 1980s और still carries the name today.
Assassination attempts and भूखंड on राष्ट्रपतियों of the संयुक्त राज्य have महरूम numerous : अधिक than 20 कोशिशें to kill बैठे और पूर्व राष्ट्रपतियों, as खूब as the presidents-elect, are ज्ञात.
Four बैठे राष्ट्रपतियों have been killed : Abraham lincoln ( the 16th अध्यक्ष ), James A. Garfield ( the 20th President ), William McKinley ( the 25th अध्यक्ष ) और John F. कैनेडी ( the 35th President ).
दो राष्ट्रपतियों यहूद injured in attempted assassinations : पूर्व अध्यक्ष थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट ( the 26th President ), और President Ronald Reagan ( the 40th President ).
हालांकि the historian j.w. Clarke has सुझाया कि सबसे अमरीकी assassinations were नीतियां प्रेरित actions, carried आउट by rational मेन, not all ऐसे हमले have महरूम undertaken for political कारण.
Some हमलावर था questionable दिमागी स्थिरता, and a few were judged legally उन्मादी.
चूंकि the Vice अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य रै for more than a century been elected इससे the वही political पार्टी as the अध्यक्ष, the assassination of the अध्यक्ष is unlikely to result in major नीति परिवर्तन.
This may बताइये क्यों political समूह typically do not make ऐसे हमले.
जहाँ the Red Fern Grows is a अनोखा written by विल्सन Rawls in 1961 परिचय a boy who खरीदता और trains दो redbone coonhound hunting dogs.
ओक्लाहोमा ( ) ( pawnee : Uukuhuúwa, Cayuga : Gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a राज्य स्तिथ in West दक्षिण Central United राज्य.
Oklahoma is the 20th सबसे extensive और the 28th most populous of the 50 संयुक्त राज्य.
the राज्य 's name is निकला इससे the choctaw words okla और humma, अर्थ `` red people '', and it is known informally by its उपनाम, the sooner State.
Formed by the combination of Oklahoma territory और भारतीय Territory on नवम्बर 16, 1907, Oklahoma was the 46th state to डालें the संघ.
Its निवासियों are ज्ञात as oklahomans or, informally `` okies '', and इसके capital और largest city is ओक्लाहोमा नगर.
A major producer of natural gas, आयल, and कृषि, Oklahoma relies on an आर्थिक आधार of विमानन, उर्जा, दूरसंचार, and biotechnology.
it has एक of the fastest growing economies in the nation, रैंकिंग among the top राज्य in per capita income विकास और gross domestic उत्पाद growth.
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as ओक्लाहोमा 's प्राथमिक economic anchors, साथ nearly दो thirds of Oklahomans living भीतर their महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रों.
With छोटी पहाड़ सीमाएँ, prairie, mesas, and eastern वनों, सबसे of ओक्लाहोमा lies in the Great Plains और the U.S. आंतरिक हाइलैंड्स —a region especially prone to severe मौसम.
in addition to having a व्यापकता of अंग्रेज़ी, जर्मनी, Scottish, आयरिश and देशी American ancestry, अधिक than 25 Native American भाषाएं हैं spoken in Oklahoma, दूसरी तभी to California.
Oklahoma is located on a संगम of three प्रमुख अमरीकी सांस्कृतिक regions और historically served as a route लिये चौपायों drives, a destination लिये southern settlers, और a government-sanctioned territory for देशी Americans.
Redwall, by ब्रायन ज़ाक, is a श्रेणी of children 's काल्पनिक novels.
it is the शीर्षक of the पहला book of the श्रेणी, प्रकाशित in 1986, as well as the name of the ऐबी प्रदर्शित in the किताब और the name of an एनिमेटेड TV series based on तीन of the novels ( Redwall, mattimeo, and Martin the योद्धा ), which पहला aired in 1999.
The books हैं primarily aimed at पुरानी children, लकिन have fans of all आयु.
There have been twenty-two novels and दो चित्र books published.
the twenty-second, और final, novel, The Rogue क्रू, was posthumously released on may 3, 2011.
Natural Gas is usually measured by आवाज़ in the संयुक्त राज्य और is stated in cubic फीट.
A cubic foot of gas is the amount of गैस needed to भरण a volume of one घन पैर under set conditions of pressure और temperature.To माप larger amounts of natural gas, a `` therm '' is प्रयुक्त to denote 100 घन feet, और `` mcf '' is used to denote 1,000 घन फीट.
To provide वृहद accuracy in comparing fuels, energy content is measured in terms of `` अंग्रेजों थर्मल इकाई ( BTU 's ). ''
A btu is the amount of ऊष्मा जरूरी to उठाएँ एक पाउंड of जल ( approximately a pint ), एक उपाधि Fahrenheit at or close to its पाइंट of अधिकतम density.
एक अंग्रेजों therm ( प्रतीक thm ) is a non- SI ईकाई of heat energy बराबर to 100,000 British thermal units ( btu ).
it is approximately the उर्जा equivalent of burning 100 cubic फीट ( often referred to as 1 CCF ) of natural gas.
चूंकि ( Natural Gas ) मीटर माप volume और नहीं energy content, a therm फ़ैक्टर is प्रयुक्त by ( Natural ) गैस companies to convert the आवाज़ of गैस used to its ऊष्मा समतुल्य, and thus गणना the actual उर्जा उपयोग.
The therm फ़ैक्टर is प्रायः in the units therms/ccf.
It होगा vary with the मिक्सर of hydrocarbons in the प्राकृतिक gas.
प्राकृतिक gas साथ a higher than औसत concentration of इथेन, प्रोपेन or ब्यूटेन will have a उच्चतर therm factor.
Impurities, such as कार्बन dioxide or नाइट्रोजन, निम्नतर the therm factor.
the आवाज़ of the gas is calculated as if measured at मानक temperature and pressure ( STP ).
The ऊष्मा सामग्री of natural गैस is solely निर्भर on the composition of the गैस, और is स्वतंत्र of तापमान और pressure.
One therm is बराबर to परिचय 105.5 megajoules, 25,200 kilocalories or 29.3 kilowatt-hours.
One therm can also be provided by about of natural गैस.
The therm sometimes has been confused साथ the thermie ( देखिए below ).
The names of both इकाई come इससे the यूनानी शब्द लिये heat.
a thermie ( th ) is a metric unit of heat energy, भाग of the meter-tonne-second system sometimes used by यूरोपीय इंजीनियर्स.
the thermie is equal to the amount of उर्जा जरूरी to raise the तापमान of 1 tonne of जल by 1 °C.
The thermie is equivalent to 1,000 kilocalories, 4.1868 megajoules or 3968.3 btu.
the American सिविल War ( acw ), also ज्ञात as the युद्ध between the States or बस the सिविल War ( see नामकरण ), थी a सिविल युद्ध fought इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और अनेक दक्षिणी slave states that declared उनके secession और formed the Confederate States of अमेरिका ( the `` confederacy '' or the `` दक्षिण '' ).
The युद्ध had its उत्पत्ति in the issue of गुलामी, विशेषकर the extension of गुलामी into the पश्चिमी territories.
Foreign शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene.
बाद four सालो of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the मुश्किल Reconstruction प्रक्रम of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed स्लेव began.
In the 1860 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into United राज्य ' territories.
lincoln जीती, लकिन before उसके inauguration on March 4, 1861, सात cotton-based slave राज्य formed the Confederacy.
outgoing लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्ष जेम्स Buchanan और the आवक republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
lincoln 's inaugural पता घोषित उसके administration होता not initiate civil युद्ध.
आठ remaining slave states जारी to अस्वीकृत calls लिये secession.
confederate forces जब्त numerous federal दुर्गों within territory claimed by the confederacy.
a सलाम Conference विफल to find a compromise, and both sides prepared for युद्ध.
The Confederates assumed that यूरोपीय देशों were so dependent on `` किंग Cotton `` कि they would intervene ; none किया and none पहचाना the नई confederate राज्य of America.
hostilities began on अप्रैल 12, 1861, जब confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट Sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South कैरोलिना.
Lincoln पुकारा for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently, चार अधिक स्लेव states joined the Confederacy, bringing उनके कुल to eleven.
The संघ जल्द controlled the किनारा states and established a नवल blockade that अबोध the southern अर्थव्यवस्था.
the Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
the autumn 1862 Confederate अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a Union state ) ended with confederate रिट्रीट at the Battle of antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the emancipation उदघोषणा, which made समाप्ति slavery a war लक्ष्य.
To the वेस्ट, by summer 1862 the Union नष्ट the confederate river नेवी, तब much of उनके western armies, और the Union at vicksburg विभाजित the Confederacy in दो at the मिसिसिपी River.
in 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
पश्चिमी successes led to Ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of all संघ armies in 1864.
in the पश्चिमी थिएटर, William T. Sherman drove east to कैप्चर Atlanta और marched to the sea, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the संसाधन और manpower to attack the confederacy from all दिशानिर्देश, and could afford to fight battles of अपघर्षण through the Overland अभियान towards Richmond, the Confederate पूंजी.
The defending confederate फौज विफल, अग्रणी to Lee 's surrender to Grant at appomattox अदालत House on April 9, 1865.
the American सिविल युद्ध थी एक of the earliest true industrial wars.
Railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
the mobilization of civilian factories, खानों, shipyards, बैंको, परिवहन and खाना आपूर्तियाँ all foreshadowed संसार युद्ध i.
it remains the deadliest war in अमरीकी इतिहास, resulting in the deaths of an अनुमानित 750,000 soldiers और an undetermined क्रमांक of civilian casualties.
Historian जॉन huddleston estimates the मौत टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of all Northern males 20–45 years old, और 30 percent of सब दक्षिणी white males aged 18–40.
विलियम ब्रूस Jenner ( born अक्तूबर 28, 1949 ) is a पूर्व U.S. track and field खिलाड़ी, motivational स्पीकर, socialite, television personality और businessman.
he won the सुनहरा medal for decathlon in the मॉन्ट्रियल 1976 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक.
Following उसके Olympic जीत और the सम्बन्धित recognition, he शादीशुदा Kris Kardashian, and his पेशेवर career evolved into being a टेलीविज़न celebrity.
By 1981, he था starred in अनेक made-for-tv फिल्मों and was Erik Estrada 's replacement on the शीर्ष rated tv श्रेणी CHiPs.
he has छह children : बर्ट, केसी, ब्रैंडन, ब्रोडी, Kendall और काइली.
चूंकि उसके 1991 marriage to क्रिस जेनर, he is the stepfather to कोर्टनी, किम, khloe and Rob कार्दशियन.
चूंकि 2007, he रै appeared with his blended परिवार on keeping up with the kardashians.
Escherichia कोलाई ( ; commonly abbreviated E. coli ) is a gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium कि is commonly मिला in the lower intestine of warm-blooded जीवों ( endotherms ).
Most E. coli strains are harmless, लकिन कुछ serotypes can cause गंभीर खाना विषाक्तता in humans, और are occasionally जिम्मेदार लिये उत्पाद recalls due to खाना contamination.
The हानिरहित strains हैं part of the normal फ्लोरा of the gut, और can लाभ their होस्ट by producing vitamin k2, और by preventing the establishment of pathogenic जीवाणु भीतर the intestine.
E. कोलाई और related bacteria constitute परिचय 0.1 % of gut फ्लोरा, and fecal–oral हस्तांतरण is the प्रमुख रूट through which pathogenic strains of the bacterium कारण बीमारी.
कोशिकाएं हैं able to जीवित outside the body लिये a सीमित amount of time, जिससे makes उन्हें ideal indicator organisms to परीक्षण पर्यावरणीय samples for fecal contamination.
There is, however, a growing देह of शोध that रै examined environmentally persistent E. coli जिससे can survive लिये extended अवधि outside of the मेजबान.
The bacterium can भी be grown easily and inexpensively in a laboratory सेटिंग, और रै महरूम intensively investigated for over 60 सालो.
E. कोलाई is the most widely पढ़ाई prokaryotic model organism, और an important प्रजाति in the फ़ील्ड of biotechnology and सूक्ष्मजैविकी, where it has परोसा as the मेजबान सजीव लिये the बहुमत of work साथ recombinant डीएनए.
Area कोड 217 is the उत्तर अमरीकी telephone area कोड for much of पश्चिमी और central Illinois.
the 217 area शामिल Illinois ' पूंजी, springfield, plus champaign, Urbana, Decatur, Danville, Quincy, और rantoul.
217 was one of the असली क्षेत्रफल कोड, which यहूद निर्मित in 1947.
the only significant change in 217 's boundaries was in 1957, जब its उत्तरी portion थी संयुक्त with भाग of area कोड 815 to रूप area कोड 309.
Image of the largest Antarctic ozone hole कभी recorded ( सितंबर 2006 ), over the दक्षिणी ध्रुव
Layers of the माहौल ( not to scale )
Ozone depletion describes two distinct लकिन सम्बन्धित phenomena observed चूंकि the लेट 1970s : a steady मनाही of परिचय 4 % per दशक in the total आवाज़ of ओज़ोन in धरती 's stratosphere ( the ओज़ोन परत ), और a much larger springtime decrease in stratospheric ozone over Earth 's ध्रुवीय regions.
the latter phenomenon is referred to as the ozone छेद.
in जोड to these well-known stratospheric phenomena, वहीँ हैं also springtime polar tropospheric ओज़ोन depletion events.
the details of polar ओज़ोन hole formation differ from कि of mid-latitude thinning, लकिन the सबसे important प्रक्रम in दोनो is catalytic destruction of ozone by atomic हैलोजन्स.
the प्रमुख source of these हैलोजन अणु in the stratosphere is photodissociation of man-made halocarbon refrigerants ( CFCs, freons, halons ).
These यौगिकों हैं transported into the stratosphere बाद being उत्सर्जित at the surface.
Both types of ozone depletion were observed to बढ़ाएँ as emissions of halo-carbons increased.
CFCs और अन्य contributory substances हैं referred to as ozone-depleting substances ( ODS ).
Since the ओज़ोन layer prevents most harmful uvb wavelengths ( 280–315 nm ) of पराबैंगनी light ( uv light ) इससे गुजर through the Earth 's atmosphere, observed और प्रक्षिप्त decreases in ozone have उत्पन्न विश्वव्यापी concern अग्रणी to अपनाना of the मॉन्ट्रियल Protocol that bans the production of cfcs, halons, and अन्य ozone-depleting रसायन such as carbon tetrachloride और trichloroethane.
it is suspected that a किस्में of biological consequences ऐसे as increases in skin कर्कट, cataracts, क्षति to पौधे, और reduction of plankton populations in the ocean 's photic मण्डल may परिणाम from the increased UV exposure due to ओज़ोन depletion.
The Preamble to the संयुक्त States संविधान is a ब्रैड introductory statement of the संविधान 's आधारभूत उद्देश्य and guiding सिद्धान्त.
It राज्य in सामान्य शर्तें, और न्यायालयों have referred to it as विश्वसनीय evidence of, the founding Fathers ' इरादों regarding the संविधान 's meaning and what वे hoped the संविधान होता achieve as it pertains to सब of the लोगों of the United States.
as the phrase, `` we the people '' suggests कि the नई सरकारी originates इससे the people of the संयुक्त States and it sets into motion a सवाल as it pertains to कि विशाल जनसांख्यिकी concerning the individual अधिकारों और equality among all लोगों ; इस can be देखी सबसे broadly in the divide between republicanism and social democracy.
Czechoslovakian shot putter plihan at the 1957 East German अंदर एथलेटिक्स Championships
the shot put ( pronounced ) is a track और फ़ील्ड इवेंट involving `` फेंकना '' / '' putting '' ( फेंकना in a pushing गति ) a heavy spherical object —the shot—as दूर as possible.
The shot put प्रतियोगिता लिये मेन has महरूम a part of the modern ओलंपिक since उनके पुनरुद्धार in 1896, महिलाओं 's competition began in 1948.
Map of the United Nations ( UN ) सदस्य states, साथ उनके territories ( सहित dependent territories ) पहचाना by the un in ब्लू
वहीँ हैं संयुक्त राष्ट्र ( UN ) member states, and प्रत्येक of उन्हें is a member of the United Nations General Assembly.
The criteria लिये admission of new members हैं नियत out in the United Nations चार्टर, अध्याय II, आलेख 4:
A अनुशंसा for admission इससे the Security परिषद requires affirmative votes इससे at तनिक नौ of the परिषद 's fifteen सदस्यों, साथ none of the five स्थाई सदस्यों मतदान against.
The सुरक्षा Council 's अनुशंसा must then be subsequently approved in the General सभा by a two-thirds बहुमत vote.
in principle, only sovereign states can become UN members, और फिलहाल all un members हैं sovereign states ( although a few सदस्यों were नहीं sovereign when they joined the UN ).
Because a राज्य can only be admitted to the UN by the approval of the Security परिषद and the General Assembly, a क्रमांक of states that may be माना sovereign राज्य according to the Montevideo सम्मेलन criteria are not सदस्यों क्युकी the UN does नहीं consider them to possess sovereignty, मुख्यतः due to the कमी of अंतरराष्ट्रीय मान्यता or opposition from निश्चित सदस्यों.
In जोड to the member states, the un also invites non-member राज्य ( फिलहाल two : the पावन See और फिलिस्तीन ), intergovernmental संगठन, और other international organizations and entities whose statehood or sovereignty are not precisely पारिभाषित, to become observers at the सामान्य Assembly, allowing them to participate and speak, लकिन not vote, in सामान्य Assembly meetings.
the Eiffel मीनार (, ) is an आयरन जाली मीनार located on the Champ de मंगल in पेरिस, named बाद the इंजीनियर Gustave Eiffel, जिनकी कम्पनी designed और built the tower.
erected in 1889 as the entrance arch to the 1889 संसार 's मेला, it has become दोनो a global सांस्कृतिक icon of France and one of the सबसे recognizable structures in the संसार.
The tower is the tallest structure in पेरिस और the most-visited paid स्मारक in the world ; 7.1 million people ascended it in 2011.
the तीसरा level वेधशाला 's upper platform is at the उच्चतम accessible to पब्लिक in the यूरोपीय संघ और the highest in यूरोपीय as long as the मंच of the ostankino मीनार, at, remains closed as a परिणाम of the आग of August 2000.
the मीनार received इसके 250 millionth आगंतुक in 2010.
The tower स्टैंड tall, परिचय the same ऊँचाई as an 81-storey भवन.
दौरान इसके निर्माण, the Eiffel Tower surpassed the Washington Monument to assume the title of the tallest man-made structure in the संसार, a title it आयोजित for 41 सालो, जबतक the Chrysler भवन in New यॉर्क City थी built in 1930.
क्युकी of the जोड, in 1957, of the एंटीना atop the Eiffel मीनार, it is अभी taller than the क्रिसलर भवन.
नहीं सहित broadcast एन्टेना, it is the second-tallest structure in France, after the millau Viaduct.
the tower has three स्तर लिये visitors.
टिकटें can be खरीदा to ascend, by stairs or lift ( लिफ्ट ), to the पहला and दूसरी स्तर.
the चलना इससे मैदान स्तर to the first स्तर is over 300 कदम, as is the walk इससे the first to the second level.
The तीसरा और उच्चतम level is accessible only by lift—stairs do exist लकिन are usually बंद to the पब्लिक.
The पहला और second levels have restaurants.
The मीनार रै become the सबसे prominent symbol of both पेरिस and फ़्रांस, प्रायः in the establishing shot of films नियत in the नगर.
Kenneth वेन `` केन '' Jennings III ( born may 23, 1974 ) is an American खेल दिखाएँ contestant and लेखक.
Jennings is विख्यात लिये holding the record for the longest जीतना streak on the U.S. syndicated खेल दिखाएँ jeopardy !
and as होने the all-time leading धन winner on American खेल shows.
in 2004, जेनिंग्स जीती 74 Jeopardy !
खेल before he थी defeated by challenger Nancy Zerg on उसके 75th रूप.
His कुल आय on Jeopardy !
are $ 3,172,700, consisting of $ 2,520,700 over उसके 74 विन्स, a $ 2,000 second-place prize in उसके 75th रूप, a $ 500,000 second-place prize in the jeopardy !
परम Tournament of Champions, as well as half of a $ 300,000 पुरस्कार in the IBM Challenge.
दौरान his first चलाएं of Jeopardy !
appearances, Jennings अर्जित the record लिये the उच्चतम अमरीकी खेल दिखाएँ winnings.
His total थी surpassed by ब्रैड Rutter, who defeated जेनिंग्स in the finals of the jeopardy !
Ultimate Tournament of champions ( first aired on May 25, 2005 ), adding $ 2,000,000 to rutter 's existing jeopardy !
winnings.
जेनिंग्स regained the रिकार्ड after appearing on several other खेल shows, culminating in an रूप on Are तुम होशियार Than a 5th grader ?
( पहला aired on October 10, 2008 ), though Rutter retains the jeopardy !
record.
बाद his कामयाबी on Jeopardy !, जेनिंग्स लिखा परिचय his अनुभव और explored अमरीकी ट्रिविया history and culture in उसके book brainiac : Adventures in the Curious, प्रतिस्पर्धी, बाध्यता संसार of ट्रिविया Buffs, प्रकाशित in 2006.
the कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल League or cfl ( ' [ lcf ] in French ) is a पेशेवर खेल लीग स्तिथ in Canada.
The cfl is the highest level of competition in कनाडाई football, a form of gridiron फ़ुटबॉल closely सम्बन्धित to अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल.
Its eight current टीमों, which are स्तिथ in आठ separate शहरों, are विभाजित into दो विभाजन of four teams प्रत्येक — the ईस्ट प्रभाग और the वेस्ट प्रभाग.
The league 's 19-week regular ऋतु runs from late जून to early नवम्बर ; each टोली plays 18 खेल with one bye week.
following the नियमित season, the three teams साथ the बेहतरीन रिकॉर्ड in उनके division ( except if the fourth प्लेस टोली in एक प्रभाग रै a better रिकार्ड than the third प्लेस team in the अन्य प्रभाग, जब the टोली साथ the better रिकार्ड makes the playoffs and `` crosses over '' to the other प्रभाग 's playoff ) compete in the लीग 's three-week divisional playoffs, जिससे culminate in the late-november Grey कप चैंपियनशिप, the देश 's largest सालाना sports और television event.
the cfl was officially founded on जनवरी 19, 1958, making it the second oldest gridiron फ़ुटबॉल league in उत्तर अमेरिका still in आपरेशन, although सब its teams long predate the आधुनिक formation of the लीग.
it is the highest level of खेल in Canadian फ़ुटबॉल, the सबसे लोकप्रिय football league in Canada, and the second-most popular प्रमुख खेल league in Canada, after the National हॉकी लीग.
हालांकि बर्फ hockey is कनाडा 's सबसे लोकप्रिय खेल, the cfl has increased the popularity of Canadian football in क्यूबेक and Western कनाडा.
Canadian football is भी played at amateur levels ( i.e. युवावस्था, ऊँची school, cjfl, QJFL, CIS और वरिष्ठ leagues such as the Alberta Football लीग ).
The 2010s होगा be a significant decade for the cfl in terms of growth, as teams have संवर, विस्तारित स्टेडियम, or योजना to निर्माण entirely नई stadiums.
The मॉन्ट्रियल Alouettes accomplished this first, adding 5,000 सीटे to Percival Molson Memorial Stadium in time लिये the 2010 CFL season.
The Edmonton एस्किमोस and Calgary Stampeders also संवर उनके respective stadiums और facilities लिये the 2010 season.
in 2011, the BC शेर निभाई under a नई, retractable छत in bc Place after spending one और a half सीज़न at साम्राज्य फ़ील्ड.
तब the विन्निपेग ब्लू Bombers होगा play in an entirely new स्टेडियम at the विश्वविद्यालयों of Manitoba, अनुसूचित to खोलें in समय लिये the 2013 ऋतु.
The हैमिल्टन Tiger-Cats, saskatchewan roughriders and the नई ओटावा franchise are also looking at new or extensively-renovated स्टेडियम in the following years.
There are also उम्मीदें of expanding the लीग to अटलांटिक कनाडा ( ideally basing a team in either the more आबादी Halifax, or the अधिक centralized Moncton ), as 2010 and 2011 had regular ऋतु games hosted in Moncton.
According to sports इतिहासकार डगलस Brei, the कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल League holds the भेद of being the तभी professional खेल लीग in उत्तर America, प्रमुख or नाबालिग league, in which प्रत्येक existing मताधिकार रै जीती at least एक league शीर्षक while in उनके current स्थान.
प्रत्येक antibody binds to a विशिष्ट antigen ; an बातचीत समान to a lock and कुंजी.
an antibody ( ab ), also known as an immunoglobulin ( ig ), is a large y-shaped protein उत्पादित by b-cells that is प्रयुक्त by the immune प्रणाली to identify and neutralize foreign objects ऐसे as जीवाणु and viruses.
the एंटीबॉडी recognizes a unique part of the विदेशी निशाना, पुकारा an antigen.
Each टिप of the `` Y '' of an antibody contains a paratope ( a structure analogous to a ताला ) that is specific for एक particular epitope ( similarly analogous to a कुंजी ) on an प्रतिजन, allowing ये दो structures to bind together साथ परिशुद्धता.
using this binding यांत्रिकी, an antibody can tag a microbe or an संक्रमित कोशिका लिये आक्रमण by अन्य भाग of the immune system, or can neutralize its निशाना directly ( for उदाहरण, by ब्लॉकिंग a भाग of a microbe कि is अनिवार्य लिये its आक्रमण और survival ).
the production of antibodies is the main फलन of the humoral प्रतिरक्षा system.
antibodies are secreted by a type of श्वेत रक्त cell पुकारा a प्लाज्मा cell.
antibodies can occur in दो शारीरिक फ़ॉर्म, a घुलनशील रूप that is secreted इससे the कोशिका, और a membrane -bound रूप that is attached to the सतह of a B cell and is referred to as the b cell receptor ( BCR ).
the bcr is तभी found on the सतह of B कोशिकाएं और facilitates the activation of these कोशिकाएं and उनके subsequent differentiation into either antibody factories पुकारा plasma cells, or memory B cells that होगा जीवित in the body and remember कि same प्रतिजन so the B cells can respond तेज़ upon future exposure.
in सबसे मामले, interaction of the b cell with a t हेल्पर cell is जरुरी to उपज full सक्रियण of the b कोशिका and, इसलिए, एंटीबॉडी generation following antigen बाइंडिंग.
Soluble antibodies are released into the blood and tissue fluids, as खूब as many secretions to continue to सर्वेक्षण लिये invading microorganisms.
Antibodies हैं glycoproteins belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily ; the शर्तें antibody and immunoglobulin हैं often used interchangeably.
Antibodies are typically made of basic structural units—each साथ दो large heavy chains and two छोटी light chains.
There हैं अनेक different types of एंटीबॉडी heavy जंजीरों, and अनेक different kinds of antibodies, which are grouped into different isotypes आधारित on जिससे heavy कड़ी they possess.
पाँच different एंटीबॉडी isotypes हैं known in mammals, जिससे perform अलग roles, और सहायता direct the उचित प्रतिरक्षा जवाब लिये प्रत्येक different type of विदेशी ऑब्जेक्ट they एनकाउंटर.
Though the सामान्य structure of all antibodies is very similar, a छोटी प्रदेश at the टिप of the protein is अत्यधिक variable, allowing millions of antibodies with थोड़ा अलग tip structures, or प्रतिजन binding sites, to exist.
This region is known as the hypervariable region.
Each of these variants can bind to a अलग antigen.
This विशाल विविधता of antibodies allows the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली to recognize an बराबर wide variety of antigens.
The विशाल and विविध जनसांख्यिकी of antibodies is उत्पन्न by यादृच्छिक combinations of a नियत of जीन खण्ड that encode different प्रतिजन बाइंडिंग sites ( or paratopes ), followed by यादृच्छिक mutations in इस क्षेत्रफल of the antibody जीन, जिससे बनाएँ further diversity.
एंटीबॉडी genes also re-organize in a process पुकारा class switching that परिवर्तन the आधार of the heavy कड़ी to another, creating a अलग isotype of the antibody कि retains the प्रतिजन specific परिवर्तनीय प्रदेश.
इस allows a सिंगल एंटीबॉडी to be प्रयुक्त by अनेक अलग parts of the प्रतिरक्षा system.
the symbol used by the Zodiac Killer to sign his correspondence
The zodiac कातिल थी a सीरियल killer जो operated in उत्तरी California in the late 1960s और early 1970s.
The killer 's identity remains unknown.
The Zodiac murdered victims in benicia, vallejo, Lake Berryessa, और सैन फ्रांसिस्को between दिसम्बर 1968 और अक्तूबर 1969.
चार मेन और three महिलाओं between the ages of 16 and 29 यहूद targeted.
The killer originated the नाम `` Zodiac '' in a series of taunting letters भेजा to the लोकल Bay क्षेत्रफल press.
ये letters included four cryptograms ( or ciphers ).
Of the चार cryptograms भेजा, तभी one रै महरूम definitively हल.
संदिग्धों have been नामित by विधि प्रवर्तन और amateur investigators, but no conclusive evidence रै surfaced.
In अप्रैल 2004, the San Francisco पुलिस विभाग marked the case `` inactive '', yet re-opened the case at कुछ पाइंट prior to March 2007.
The case also remains open in the city of vallejo, as खूब as in नापा काउंटी and Solano County.
the California विभाग of इंसाफ has maintained an open case file on the Zodiac murders चूंकि 1969.
जेनिंग्स is a small नगर in and the parish seat of जेफरसन डेविस Parish, Louisiana, United राज्य, near झील Charles.
the population थी 10,383 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, a small मनाही इससे the 2000 tabulation.
the city is 68 प्रतिशत white.
Jennings is the principal नगर of the जेनिंग्स micropolitan सांख्यिकीय Area, which includes all of जेफरसन Davis Parish.
it is भी part of the larger Lake Charles-Jennings संयुक्त Statistical Area.
nanotechnology ( sometimes shortened to `` nanotech '' ) is the manipulation of पदार्थ on an परमाणु and आणविक स्केल.
The earliest, widespread description of nanotechnology referred to the particular technological goal of precisely manipulating अणु और अणुओं for fabrication of macroscale products, also अभी referred to as molecular nanotechnology.
a अधिक generalized description of nanotechnology थी subsequently स्थापित by the National Nanotechnology पहल, which defines nanotechnology as the manipulation of पदार्थ साथ at तनिक one dimension sized from 1 to 100 nanometers.
इस परिभाषा reflects the fact that quantum mechanical प्रभाव are महत्वपूर्ण at इस quantum-realm scale, and so the परिभाषा shifted इससे a particular technological goal to a शोध category inclusive of all प्रकार of research and technologies that deal with the special गुण of पदार्थ कि occur below the given आकार threshold.
it is therefore common to देखिए the बहुवचन form `` nanotechnologies '' as well as `` nanoscale technologies '' to refer to the broad दायरा of शोध और अनुप्रयोग जिनकी common trait is आकार.
क्युकी of the variety of संभावित applications ( सहित industrial and सैन्य ), governments have invested billions of dollars in nanotechnology शोध.
through its नेशनल nanotechnology Initiative, the USA रै invested 3.7 billion डॉलर.
the European Union has invested 1.2 billion और जापानी 750 million dollars.
Nanotechnology as defined by size is naturally very broad, including फ़ील्ड of science as diverse as surface विज्ञान, सशुल्क रसायन, molecular biology, सेमीकंडक्टर भौतिकी, microfabrication, इत्यादि.
the associated शोध and अनुप्रयोग हैं equally विविध, ranging इससे एक्सटेंशन of conventional यंत्र भौतिकी to completely नई approaches based upon molecular self-assembly, इससे developing नई सामग्री with dimensions on the nanoscale to direct कंट्रोल of पदार्थ on the atomic scale.
वैज्ञानिकों currently debate the future implications of nanotechnology.
Nanotechnology may be able to create many नई materials and devices with a vast दायरा of अनुप्रयोग, ऐसे as in medicine, इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स, biomaterials and उर्जा production.
On the अन्य hand, nanotechnology उठाता many of the same issues as any नई प्रौद्योगिकी, सहित चिंताएं about the toxicity and environmental impact of nanomaterials, and their potential effects on वैश्विक economics, as well as अटकलें परिचय विभिन्न doomsday scenarios.
ये concerns have led to a debate among advocacy groups और सरकारें on whether खास विनियमन of nanotechnology is warranted.
मैप of the पूर्वी Bloc
the term पूर्वी Bloc or Communist bloc refers to the पूर्व communist राज्य of सेंट्रल and पूर्वी Europe, generally the Soviet संघ and the देशों of the वॉरसॉ Pact.
the शर्तें कम्युनिस्ट Bloc and Soviet Bloc were also प्रयुक्त to denote groupings of राज्य aligned साथ the Soviet Union, हालांकि these शर्तें might include राज्य outside सेंट्रल and Eastern Europe.
The नई जर्सी gubernatorial चुनाव of 2009 took place on November 3, 2009.
Democratic Governor jon Corzine थी running for a second पद और was होने challenged by रिपब्लिकन क्रिस क्रिस्टी, स्वतंत्र क्रिस्टोफर daggett and नौ others, in addition to अनेक write-in उम्मीदवार.
क्रिस्टी जीती the चुनाव, साथ about 48.5 प्रतिशत of the vote, to 44.9 percent for Corzine और 5.8 percent for Daggett.
Christie won the largest हाशिया लिये a पहला पद रिपब्लिकन since 1969.
क्रिस्टी assumed office on January 19, 2010.
This थी the पहला election to भरण the newly निर्मित दफ्तर of Lieutenant राज्यपाल.
the candidates for राज्यपाल and lieutenant राज्यपाल were joined together as a सिंगल choice, so कि मतदाता did नहीं have the अवसर to split the ticket.
Kim Guadagno, Christie 's running mate, became नई Jersey 's पहला lieutenant राज्यपाल following her inauguration.
स्वास्थ्य care in the संयुक्त राज्य is provided by अनेक distinct संगठन.
Health परवाह सुविधाएं हैं largely owned और operated by private sector व्यवसायों.
Health insurance लिये public sector कर्मचारी is primarily provided by the government.
60-65 % of healthcare provision और बिता आता from कार्यक्रम ऐसे as Medicare, medicaid, TRICARE, the children 's स्वास्थ्य बीमे कार्यक्रम, और the Veterans Health प्रशासन.
सबसे of the population under 65 is insured by their or a परिवार सदस्य 's नियोक्ता, some ख़रीदे स्वास्थ्य insurance on उनके own, और the शेष हैं uninsured.
Of 17 high-income countries studied by the नेशनल Institutes of स्वास्थ्य in 2013, the United States was at or निकट the नीचे in शिशु mortality, heart और lung disease, sexually transmitted infections, adolescent pregnancies, injuries, homicides, और दरों of disability.
साथ, such issues प्लेस the u.S. at the bottom of the सूची लिये जीवन expectancy.
on औसत, a U.S. male can be expected to सजीव लगभग चार कम years than those in the top-ranked देश.
according to the संसार Health Organization ( WHO ), the संयुक्त States spent more on स्वास्थ्य परवाह per capita ( $ 7,146 ), और अधिक on health परवाह as percentage of its जीडीपी ( 15.2 % ), than कोई अन्य nation in 2008.
The राष्ट्रमंडल निधि ranked the United राज्य last in the विशेषता of health care among similar countries, और टीप u.S. परवाह costs the most.
The u.S. Census Bureau reported कि 49.9 million residents, 16.3 % of the population, were uninsured in 2010 ( up from 49.0 million निवासियों, 16.1 % of the जनसांख्यिकी, in 2009 ).
A 2004 संस्थान of Medicine ( iom ) रपट कहा : `` the संयुक्त States is among the few industrialized nations in the संसार that does नहीं guarantee access to स्वास्थ्य परवाह for इसके population. ''
A 2004 oecd report said : `` With the exception of मैक्सिको, Turkey, and the संयुक्त States, all OECD देशों था हासिल सार्वभौमिक or near-universal ( at तनिक 98.4 % insured ) coverage of their populations by 1990. ''
A 2010 report observed कि कमी of स्वास्थ्य insurance causes roughly 48,000 unnecessary deaths every year in the United राज्य.
In 2007, 62.1 % of filers for bankruptcies claimed high चिकित्सा expenses.
A 2013 पढ़ाई मिला that परिचय 25 % of सब वरिष्ठ नागरिकों घोषित bankruptcy due to चिकित्सा expenses, और 43 % are मजबूर to mortgage or sell their प्राथमिक residence.
On कूच 23, 2010, the रोगी सुरक्षा और Affordable परवाह अधिनियम ( PPACA ) became law, providing for major परिवर्तन in health बीमे.
In physiology, body जल is the जल सामग्री of the इंसान देह.
a significant fraction of the human देह is जल.
Arthur guyton 's Textbook of चिकित्सा physiology states that `` the total राशि of water in a man of average weight ( 70 गामा ) is approximately 40 लीटर, averaging 57 प्रतिशत of उसके total body वज़न.
in a newborn infant, this may be as ऊँची as 75 प्रतिशत of the body weight, but it progressively decreases इससे जनम to old age, most of the decrease occurring during the पहला 10 years of life.
भी, obesity decreases the percentage of जल in the देह, sometimes to as low as 45 प्रतिशत ''.
ये figures are statistical averages, so are illustrative, and जैसे सब biostatistics, होगा vary with things जैसे type of जनसांख्यिकी, age and क्रमांक of people sampled, and methodology.
so there is not, and can नहीं be, a figure कि is exactly the वही for all लोगों, लिये इस or any other physiological माप.
लिये उदाहरण, Jackson 's ( 1985 ) Anatomy & physiology for Nurses gives a फिगर of 60 % लिये the proportion of body-weight attributable to जल, which approximates guyton 's 57 %.
In diseased states जहाँ देह water is affected, the कम्पार्टमेंट or compartments that have changed can give clues to the प्रकृति of the problem.
देह जल is regulated by हार्मोन, सहित anti-diuretic hormone ( अध ), aldosterone और अलिंदी natriuretic peptide.
प्रति Netter 's Atlas of Human physiology, body water is broken down into the following कम्पार्टमेंटs:
intracellular द्रव ( 2/3 of देह जल ).
प्रति guyton, in a देह containing 40 litres of fluid, परिचय 25 लीटर is intracellular, which amounts to 62.5 % ( 5/8 ), बंद enough to the 2/3 rule of अंगूठा.
Jackson 's ग्रन्थ राज्य 70 % of देह fluid is intracellular.
Extracellular fluid ( 1/3 of देह water ).
प्रति Guyton 's उदाहरण, लिये a 40 litre देह, परिचय 15 लीटर is extracellular, जिससे amounts to 37.5 % again, this is बंद to the 1/3 rule of thumb cited यहाँ.
प्लाज्मा ( 1/5 of extracellular fluid ).
Per guyton 's illustration, of the 15 लीटर of extracellular fluid, प्लाज्मा volume averages 3 लीटर.
This amounts to 20 %, the same as per netter 's एटलस.
Interstitial द्रव ( 4/5 of extracellular fluid )
Transcellular द्रव ( a.k.a. `` third space, '' सामान्यतः ignored in calculations )
contained अंदर अंगों, such as the जठरांत्र, cerebrospinal, peritoneal, and ocular fluids.
self-esteem is a term प्रयुक्त in मनोविज्ञान to reflect a person 's overall emotional मूल्यांकन of his or her own worth.
it is a निर्णय of oneself as खूब as an attitude toward the self.
self-esteem encompasses beliefs ( for example, `` I am competent, '' `` i am worthy '' ) और भाव such as triumph, despair, pride and shame.
स्मिथ and Mackie define it by saying `` The self-concept is कया we think परिचय the self ; self-esteem, is the धनात्मक or negative evaluations of the स्वः, as in how we महसूस about it. ''
Self-esteem is also known as the evaluative dimension of the self that includes feelings of worthiness, prides and discouragement.
One 's self-esteem is भी closely associated with self-consciousness.
self-esteem is a disposition कि a person रै which represents their judgements of उनके अपना worthiness.
in the mid-1960s, Morris rosenberg और social-learning पैरोकार पारिभाषित self-esteem as a निजी लायक or worthiness.
nathaniel branden in 1969 defined self-esteem as `` the अनुभव of होने competent to cope साथ the मौलिक चुनौतियां of जीवन and होने worthy of happiness. ''
according to branden, self-esteem is the sum of self-confidence ( a अहसास of personal capacity ) and self-respect ( a feeling of personal worth ).
it exists as a consequence of the अव्यक्त judgement that प्रत्येक व्यक्ति has of उनके ability to फेस जीवन 's challenges, to समझे और solve problems, and उनके right to achieve सुख, and be दिए आदर.
As a सोशल मनोवैज्ञानिक construct, self-esteem is attractive क्युकी शोधकर्ताओं have conceptualized it as an influential predictor of relevant outcomes, such as academic achievement ( दलदल 1990 ) or exercise बर्ताव ( Hagger et al. 1998 ).
In जोड, self-esteem रै भी been treated as an important निष्कर्ष due to इसके बंद संबंध साथ मनोवैज्ञानिक well-being ( दलदल 1989 ).
Self-esteem can लागू specifically to a particular dimension ( लिये उदाहरण, `` I believe I am a शुभ लेखक and i महसूस प्रसन्न परिचय कि '' ) or a वैश्विक extent ( लिये उदाहरण, `` I believe I am a ख़राब person, और feel bad about खुद in general '' ).
psychologists प्रायः regard self-esteem as an enduring व्यक्तित्व characteristic ( `` trait '' self-esteem ), हालांकि normal, short-term variations ( `` राज्य '' self-esteem ) भी exist.
समानार्थी or near-synonyms of self-esteem शामिल : self-worth, self-regard, self-respect, और self-integrity.
A Masonic Lodge, often termed a Private Lodge or Constituent Lodge, is the basic organisational ईकाई of Freemasonry.
Every new आवास जरूर be warranted or chartered by a Grand आवास, लकिन is विषय to its दिशा only in enforcing the published Constitution of the क्षेत्राधिकार.
By एक्सेप्शन the तीन surviving lodges कि formed the world 's पहला ज्ञात Grand आवास in London ( today पुकारा the संयुक्त ग्रैंड Lodge of इंग्लैण्ड ) have the unique विशेषाधिकार to operate as time immemorial i.e. without such warrant ; तभी one अन्य lodge operates बगैर a वारंट - this is the ग्रैंड Stewards ' Lodge in लंदन, although it is नहीं also entitled to the `` time immemorial '' title.
A freemason is generally हकदार to visit कोई आवास, in any क्षेत्राधिकार ( i.e. अंतर्गत any ग्रैंड आवास ) in सौहार्द with उसके own.
In कुछ jurisdictions इस विशेषाधिकार is restricted to निपुण masons ( कि is, Freemasons जो have attained the Order 's तीसरा degree ).
He is first usually required to जाँच, और certify, the नियमितता of the संबंध of the आवास - और be समर्थ to satisfy that Lodge of his नियमितता of membership.
Freemasons एकत्रित साथ as a आवास to कार्य the three basic Degrees of Entered Apprentice, Fellowcraft and निपुण Mason.
pilkington समूह सीमित is a बहुराष्ट्रीय glass manufacturing company headquartered in st हेलेन्स, United Kingdom and a wholly owned subsidiary of the japan-based NSG Group.
prior to इसके acquisition by एनएसजी in 2006 it थी an independent company listed on the London भण्डार एक्सचेंज and for a समय थी a constituent of the FTSE 100 अनुक्रमणिका.
A quotation is the repetition of एक expression as भाग of another एक, विशेषकर जब the quoted अभिव्यक्ति is well-known or explicitly attributed by citation to its असली source, and it is indicated by ( punctuated साथ ) quotation marks.
A quotation can भी refer to the दोहराया use of units of any other form of expression, विशेषकर parts of कलाकारी works : तत्व of a पेंटिंग, दृश्यों from a फिल्म or sections from a musical composition.
साल 1877 ( mdccclxxvii ) was a common year starting on Monday ( कड़ी होगा display the पूरा calendar ) of the Gregorian पंचांग and a आम year starting on Saturday of the 12-day धीमा Julian calendar.
ब्लैक pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering vine in the family piperaceae, cultivated लिये its fruit, जिससे is usually सूखी और प्रयुक्त as a spice और seasoning.
The फल, ज्ञात as a peppercorn जब सूखी, is लगभग in व्यास, अंधेरा red when fully mature, और, जैसे all drupes, contains a सिंगल बीज.
peppercorns, और the मैदान pepper निकला इससे them, may be described बस as pepper, or अधिक precisely as black pepper ( पकाया और dried unripe fruit ), green pepper ( dried unripe फल ) और श्वेत pepper ( dried पके seeds ).
Black pepper is देशी to south इण्डिया, and is extensively cultivated वहीँ और elsewhere in tropical regions.
फिलहाल Vietnam is the world 's largest producer और निर्यातक of pepper, producing 34 % of the world 's पाइपर nigrum क्रॉप as of 2008.
सूखी मैदान pepper has been प्रयुक्त since antiquity लिये both its flavour और as a आयुर्विज्ञान.
ब्लैक pepper is the world 's most traded spice.
it is one of the सबसे common spices added to European cuisine and its वंशजों.
the spiciness of ब्लैक pepper is due to the chemical piperine, नहीं to be confused with the capsaicin that देता मांसल peppers theirs.
It is in the modern world, प्रायः युग्म साथ salt.
आग hydrant in charlottesville, वर्जिनिया, USA
A आग hydrant ( also ज्ञात colloquially as a आग plug in the संयुक्त States or as a johnny pump in नई यॉर्क नगर ), is an क्रियाशील fire सुरक्षा माप, और a सोर्स of water provided in सबसे शहरी, suburban और ग्रामीण areas साथ नगरपालिका जल service to enable अग्निशमन to tap into the नगरपालिका जल supply to assist in extinguishing a fire.
इमारतें near a hydrant may qualify लिये an बीमे छूट since अग्निशमन should be समर्थ to more rapidly बुझा a fire on the insured प्रॉपर्टी.
The अवधारणा of आग plugs dates to at तनिक the 17th century.
This थी a time when firefighters responding to a call would खुदाई down to the लकड़ी जल मेन्स और hastily bore a छेद to सुरक्षित water to fight फ़ायर.
the water would fill the hole बनाना a temporary खूब, और be transported from the खूब to the fire by bucket brigades or, बाद, by hand-pumped आग इंजन.
The holes were तब plugged with stoppers, normally redwood, which over समय came to be ज्ञात as fire plugs.
the location of the plug होता प्रायः be recorded or चिह्नित so कि it could be reused in future फ़ायर.
इस is the source of the colloquial पद आग प्लग still प्रयुक्त लिये आग hydrants today.
After the Great आग of लंदन in 1666, the city संस्थापित water mains साथ छेद drilled at intervals, equipped with risers, allowing an access point to the wooden fire plugs इससे गली level.
the आविष्कार of a post- or pillar-type fire hydrant is generally credited to Frederick Graff Sr., Chief इंजीनियर of the फिलाडेल्फिया जल works around the year 1801.
it था a संयोजन hose/faucet outlet और was of `` गीला barrel '' design with the valve in the top.
it is said कि Graff held the first पेटेंट for a fire hydrant, लकिन इस can not be सत्यापित because the patent office in वॉशिंगटन d.C. caught on fire in 1836 destroying many पेटेंट records इससे कि period in the process.
the अध्यक्ष of the Republic of South अफ़्रीकी is the सिर of राज्य और head of सरकारी under South अफ़्रीकी 's Constitution.
From 1961 to 1994, the head of state was called the State अध्यक्ष.
the President is निर्वाचित by members of the National Assembly, the lower house of Parliament, and is प्रायः the leader of the largest party, which has महरूम the अफ़्रीकी National Congress since the पहला non-racial elections यहूद held on 27 अप्रैल 1994.
the role थी originally संस्थापित to be पृथक इससे the अभी defunct role of प्रधान minister, but the two भूमिकाएँ were merged in the 1983 संविधान जिससे निर्दिष्ट a four-year पद of office.
The 1993 and later constitutions limits the अध्यक्ष 's समय in दफ्तर to two five-year शर्तें.
The पहला President to be निर्वाचित under the नई संविधान was नेल्सन मंडेला, और the लाज़िम president is याक़ूब zuma.
Under the अंतरिम संविधान ( मान्य from 1994 to 1996 ), वहीँ थी a Government of नेशनल Unity, in which an mp from the largest विपक्ष पार्टी was हकदार to a position as Deputy अध्यक्ष.
साथ with thabo mbeki, the last राज्य अध्यक्ष, F.W. De klerk also served as डिप्टी President, in उसके capacity as the नेता of the National Party which थी the second-largest party in the new Parliament.
लकिन de klerk बाद resigned और गई into opposition with उसके party.
a voluntary coalition सरकारी continues to मौजूद under the नई संविधान ( अपनाया in 1996 ), although वहीँ have been no नियुक्ति of विपक्ष राजनेता to the post of डिप्टी president.
खास education or special needs education is the education of विद्यार्थी with खास needs in a way that पता the विद्यार्थी ' व्यक्तिगत मतभेद and needs.
Ideally, इस process involves the individually planned and systematically monitored arrangement of teaching प्रक्रियाओं, adapted उपकरण and सामग्री, accessible settings, and अन्य interventions designed to help learners with special needs achieve a उच्चतर level of personal self-sufficiency and कामयाबी in स्कूल और जातियाँ than होता be उपलब्धियाँ if the छात्र were तभी given अभिगम to a ठेठ classroom शिक्षा.
Common special needs include चुनौतियां साथ सीखना, communication चुनौतियां, emotional और behavioral विकार, शारीरिक disabilities, and developmental विकार.
विद्यार्थी साथ ये kinds of खास needs हैं likely to लाभ इससे additional educational सेवाएं ऐसे as अलग approaches to teaching, उपयोग of technology, a specifically adapted शिक्षण क्षेत्रफल, or resource रूम.
Intellectual giftedness is a difference in learning and can also benefit इससे specialized शिक्षण techniques or different शैक्षणिक कार्यक्रम, but the पद `` खास education '' is generally used to specifically indicate instruction of विद्यार्थी जिनकी खास needs reduce उनके ability to सीख independently or in an ordinary कक्षा, और gifted शिक्षा is handled separately.
In most developed देशों, educators are modifying teaching विधि and environments so that the maximum number of students हैं served in general education environments.
Special education in विकसित countries is प्रायः regarded कम as a `` प्लेस '' और more as `` a दायरा of सेवाएं, उपलब्धियाँ in प्रत्येक स्कूल. ''
संयोजन can reduce सोशल stigmas और improve अकादमिक उपलब्धि लिये many विद्यार्थी.
the विपरीत of खास education is general शिक्षा.
सामान्य शिक्षा is the standard curriculum प्रस्तुत with standard शिक्षण विधि and बगैर अतिरिक्त supports.
George Soros ( or ; ; ; born August 12, 1930, as schwartz györgy ) is a hungarian-american business महारथी, investor, और लोकसेवक.
He is the अध्यक्ष of Soros Fund Management.
Soros supports progressive-liberal causes.
He is ज्ञात as `` The man जो Broke the बैंको of England `` because of उसके in निवेश profits during the 1992 Black बुधवार uk करेंसी संकट.
between 1979 और 2011, Soros दिया away over $ 8 billion to इंसान अधिकारों, public health, और शिक्षा causes.
he played a significant role in the peaceful transition from communism to capitalism in हंगेरियाई ( 1984–89 ) और provided one of Europe 's largest उच्चतर education endowments to सेंट्रल यूरोपीय University in बुडापेस्ट.
सोरोस is also the अध्यक्ष of the खोलें Society Institute.
an actor portraying सिकंदर Graham Bell speaking into an early मॉडल टेलीफोन.
the आविष्कार of the telephone is the culmination of work किया by अनेक individuals, the history of which involves a संग्रहण of दावा and counterclaims.
The development of the आधुनिक electrical telephone involved an सरणी of lawsuits संस्थापित upon the पेटेंट claims of अनेक individuals and numerous companies.
इस article covers the जल्दी सालो from 1844 to 1898, इससे धारणा of the idea of an electric voice-transmission यंत्र, to failed attempts to उपयोग `` make-and-break '' वर्तमान, to कामयाब experiments with electromagnetic telephones by सिकंदर Graham Bell and Thomas Watson, और आखिरकार to commercially कामयाब telephones in the late 19th सदी.
a Master of ठीक कला ( MFA, m.f.a. ) is a ग्रैजुएट degree typically requiring 2–3 सालो of postgraduate study परे the स्नातक 's degree ( bfa ), although the पद of study होगा vary by देश or by विश्वविद्यालयों.
the MFA is a रचनात्मक degree प्रायः awarded as a टर्मिनल उपाधि in visual arts, रचनात्मक लिखने, filmmaking, नृत्य, or थिएटर and other performing कला.
Coursework is primarily of an applied or performing प्रकृति with the program often culminating in a major कार्य or प्रदर्शन.
Master of ठीक कला programs have generally जरूरी a स्नातक 's degree prior to admission, लकिन अनेक do नहीं require कि the undergraduate major be the same as the MFA फ़ील्ड of study.
the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण admissions requirement has often महरूम a नमूना पोर्टफोलियो or a performance ऑडिशन.
The निपुण of Fine कला differs from the Master of कला in कि the mfa, जबकि an अकादमिक कार्यक्रम, centers around अभ्यास in the particular फ़ील्ड, whereas कार्यक्रम अग्रणी to the ma प्रायः center on the scholarly, अकादमिक, or critical पढ़ाई of the फ़ील्ड.
additionally, in the United राज्य, an mfa is पहचाना as a terminal degree for practitioners of विज़ुअल आर्ट, Design, नृत्य, Theatre, film/video, नई Media, and Creative Writing - अर्थ कि it is माना to be the उच्चतम उपाधि in इसके फ़ील्ड, और is used as a minimum योग्यता to be able to apply to become a Full-Time प्राध्यापक teaching at the University स्तर in ये disciplines.
वहीँ are अपवाद to इस standard in the कला, notably in the case of म्यूज़िक performance, जहाँ the MFA is नहीं देखी as a terminal degree in the context of the more standardized DMA उपाधि.
It is also नाजुक to नोट कि in the interest of extending the कनेक्शन between creative production और जारी अकादमिक शोध, कुछ universities have स्थापित practice-based ph.d programs in फ़ील्ड ऐसे as रचनात्मक writing, visual कला, new मीडिया, डिज़ाइन और theater.
जबकि इस has had an effect in रचनात्मक Writing, and to a lesser extent in design and नई मीडिया, the influx of graduates इससे practice-based phd programs has not appreciably बदला the मानक for the mfa as the terminal उपाधि in most Arts disciplines yet.
इस is an जारी contentious topic, और is the बारंबार subject of academic panels, especially at the सालाना कॉलेज Art संघ conference.
the CAA 2008 दिशानिर्देश regarding the mfa strongly re-affirms that the phd is not जरूरी as a terminal degree in the विज़ुअल कला.
the atomic bombings of the शहरों of हिरोशिमा and नागासाकी in Japan यहूद conducted by the United राज्य दौरान the फाइनल चरण of संसार युद्ध II in 1945.
the two events are the only use of नाभिकीय हथियार in war to date.
following a firebombing campaign कि destroyed many जापानी शहरों, the allies prepared for a costly आक्रमण of जापानी.
the युद्ध in यूरोपीय ended when नाजी Germany हस्ताक्षरित इसके instrument of surrender on 8 May, but the प्रशांत युद्ध जारी.
साथ साथ the United Kingdom और the Republic of चीन, the संयुक्त राज्य पुकारा लिये a आत्मसमर्पण of Japan in the पॉट्सडैम Declaration on 26 July 1945, threatening जापानी with `` संकेत and utter विनाश ''.
the जापानी government उपेक्षित इस ultimatum, और the United States तैनात two नाभिकीय हथियार विकसित by the मैनहटन प्रोजेक्ट.
अमरीकी airmen dropped Little Boy on the नगर of हिरोशिमा on 6 August 1945, followed by मोटे Man over Nagasaki on 9 अगस्त.
भीतर the first दो to four months of the bombings, the अधि प्रभाव killed 90,000–166,000 people in हिरोशिमा and 60,000–80,000 in Nagasaki, with roughly half of the मौतों in प्रत्येक नगर occurring on the पहला दिन.
the हिरोशिमा prefecture health department अनुमानित कि, of the लोगों जो died on the day of the विस्फोट, 60 % died from फ्लैश or flame burns, 30 % इससे falling मलबा and 10 % इससे other कल्याणकारी.
दौरान the following months, large संख्याएँ died from the प्रभाव of burns, radiation बीमारी, and other चोटों, compounded by बीमारी.
In a US अनुमान of the कुल immediate और छोटी पद cause of मौत, 15–20 % died इससे radiation बीमारी, 20–30 % from burns, और 50–60 % इससे other चोटों, compounded by illness.
In दोनो शहरों, सबसे of the मुर्दे were नागरिकों, although Hiroshima had a sizeable गैरीसन.
on 15 August, छह days बाद the bombing of Nagasaki, जापानी घोषित इसके surrender to the Allies, हस्ताक्षर the Instrument of आत्मसमर्पण on 2 सितंबर, officially ending संसार युद्ध II.
the bombings led, in भाग, to post-war Japan 's adopting तीन Non-Nuclear सिद्धान्त, forbidding the स्वदेश from nuclear armament.
The भूमिका of the bombings in Japan 's surrender and उनके नैतिक औचित्य हैं still debated.
Mohandas करमचंद गांधी ( ; 2 October 1869 – 30 जनवरी 1948 ), commonly ज्ञात as Mahatma गांधी, was the preeminent नेता of Indian nationalism in British-ruled इण्डिया.
employing non-violent सिविल disobedience, Gandhi led India to स्वतंत्रता और प्रेरित आंदोलनों for non-violence, civil rights और स्वतंत्रता across the world.
the बेटे of a senior government official, Gandhi थी born और उठाया in a Hindu Bania community in तटीय Gujarat, and प्रशिक्षित in law in London.
गांधी became famous by लड़ लिये the सिविल अधिकारों of Muslim और हिन्दू इंडियंस in दक्षिण Africa, using new techniques of non-violent civil disobedience that he विकसित.
Returning to India in 1915, he नियत about organising peasants to विरोध excessive land-taxes.
a lifelong opponent of `` सांप्रदायिकता `` ( i.e. basing राजनीती on धर्म ) he पहुँचे आउट widely to सब धार्मिक समूह.
He became a नेता of मुसलमान protesting the declining औकात of the Caliphate.
assuming leadership of the भारतीय National कॉंग्रेस in 1921, गांधी led देशभर campaigns लिये easing गरीबी, expanding महिलाओं 's rights, भवन धार्मिक and ethnic amity, ending अस्पृश्यता, increasing economic self-reliance, और above all लिये achieving स्वराज —the independence of India इससे अंग्रेजों हुकूमत.
Gandhi led Indians in protesting the national salt tax with the dandi Salt March in 1930, और later in demanding the अंग्रेजों to immediately Quit इण्डिया in 1942, during संसार War ii.
He थी imprisoned for that और for numerous अन्य political offenses over the years.
Gandhi sought to practice non-violence and truth in all परिस्थितियों, and advocated कि others do the वही.
he देखी the गांवों as the core of the true इण्डिया and promoted self-sufficiency ; he किया नहीं support the industrialization programs of his शिष्य Jawaharlal Nehru.
he lived modestly in a self-sufficient residential community and wore the परंपरागत Indian dhoti and shawl, woven with धागे he had हाथ spun on a charkha.
उसके मुख्य राजनैतिक दुश्मन in Britain was विंस्टन Churchill, जो ridiculed उसे as a `` half-naked फकीर. ''
he थी a समर्पित vegetarian, and undertook long fasts as means of both self-purification and political mobilization.
In उसके पिछला साल, अप्रसन्न at the partition of India, Gandhi worked to रोकें the carnage between Muslims, हिन्दुओं and सिखों that raged in the किनारा area between India और पाकिस्तानी.
He थी assassinated on 30 January 1948 by Nathuram गोडसे जो thought गांधी was too sympathetic to India 's मुसलमान.
30 जनवरी is observed as Martyrs ' Day in India.
the honorific Mahatma ( `` ग्रेट Soul '' ) थी लागू to him by 1914.
In India he was also called bapu ( `` पिता '' ).
he is ज्ञात in India as the Father of the स्वदेश ; his birthday, 2 October, is commemorated वहीँ as Gandhi jayanti, a नेशनल holiday, and world-wide as the अंतरराष्ट्रीय दिन of Non-Violence.
गांधी 's दर्शनशास्त्र was not सैद्धांतिक लकिन एक of pragmatism, that is, practicing his सिद्धान्त in the पल.
पूछा to give a संदेश to the people, he would respond, `` my life is my संदेश. ''
Joan Crawford ( March 23, ca. 1904 – May 10, 1977 ), born Lucille fay LeSueur, was an American अभिनेत्री in फिल्मी, television and थिएटर.
Starting as a dancer in traveling theatrical companies before debuting on ब्रॉडवे, क्रॉफर्ड was हस्ताक्षरित to a गति चित्र अनुबंध by metro-goldwyn-mayer in 1925.
initially कुंठित by the size और quality of her parts, Crawford began a campaign of self-publicity and became nationally known as a flapper by the end of the 1920s.
in the 1930s, Crawford 's fame rivaled, and later outlasted, MGM सहयोगियों Norma शियर्र और greta Garbo.
क्रॉफर्ड प्रायः played मेहनती young women जो ढूँढें romance और वित्तीय कामयाबी.
ये `` rags-to-riches '' stories were well प्राप्त by अवसाद -era audiences और were popular साथ women.
क्रॉफर्ड became one of हॉलीवुड 's सबसे prominent फिल्म stars and one of the highest सशुल्क महिलाओं in the संयुक्त States, लकिन her films began losing धन and by the समाप्त of the 1930s she थी labeled `` box दफ्तर ज़हर ''.
बाद an absence of nearly दो years इससे the screen, Crawford मंचन a वापसी by अभिनीत in Mildred पियर्स ( 1945 ), for which वो won the Academy पुरस्कार लिये Best अभिनेत्री.
In 1955, she became involved with the Pepsi-Cola Company through her विवाह to कम्पनी Chairman Alfred Steele.
बाद his death in 1959, Crawford was elected to fill उसके vacancy on the board of निर्देशकों but थी forcibly retired in 1973.
वो जारी एक्टिंग in फिल्मी और टेलीविज़न regularly through the 1960s, when her performances became fewer ; बाद the release of the अंग्रेजों horror फिल्मी trog in 1970, क्रॉफर्ड रिटायर्ड इससे the स्क्रीन.
following a पब्लिक रूप in 1974, after which unflattering छायाचित्र were published, Crawford withdrew from public life और became increasingly reclusive जबतक उसके मौत in 1977.
क्रॉफर्ड शादीशुदा four टाइम्स.
उसके पहला three विवाह ended in divorce ; the last ended साथ the death of husband Alfred Steele.
She adopted पाँच children, one of जिसको was reclaimed by उसके जनम माँ.
क्रॉफर्ड 's संबंध साथ her दो पुरानी children, Christina and Christopher, यहूद acrimonious.
Crawford disinherited the two and, after Crawford 's मौत, क्रिस्टीना wrote a `` tell-all '' memoir, mommie dearest, in which she alleged a lifelong pattern of शारीरिक और emotional गाली perpetrated by Crawford.
वो was voted the tenth greatest मादा star in the इतिहास of American cinema by the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान.
1910 बुइक tonneau without tonneau कवर
1903 Ford Model A rear-door Tonneau
1903 lanchester rear-door Tonneau
tonneau cover ( or ) describes a hard or soft कवर प्रयुक्त to protect unoccupied passenger सीटे in a convertible or roadster, or the कार्गो bed in a पिकअप truck.
Hard tonneau कवर खोलें by a hinging or फोल्डिंग mechanism while soft कवर open by rolling up.
the tonneau कवर is प्रयुक्त to conceal कार्गो.
When the cover is खींचा out, it keeps वस्तुएं out of the सूर्य और provides अतिरिक्त security by keeping personal items आउट of sight, as well as shielding the driver इससे view.
ट्विटर is an online social networking सेवा और microblogging service that enables its उपयोक्ता to भेजें and read text-based संदेश of up to 140 वर्ण, ज्ञात as `` tweets ''.
ट्विटर was created in कूच 2006 by जोकर dorsey and by July, the सोशल नेटवर्किंग साईट थी launched.
The सेवा rapidly gained worldwide popularity, with over 500 लाख registered उपयोक्ता as of 2012, generating over 340 million tweets रोज़ and handling over 1.6 billion search प्रश्नों per day.
Since इसके launch, ट्विटर रै become one of the टेन सबसे visited websites on the अंतरजाल, and रै been वर्णित as `` the SMS of the अंतरजाल. ''
अपंजीकृत उपयोक्ता can पढ़ा tweets, जबकि registered users can पोस्ट tweets through the website interface, SMS, or a दायरा of apps for mobile डिवाइस.
ट्विटर inc. is आधारित in सैन Francisco, साथ अतिरिक्त servers and offices in नई York नगर, Boston, and सैन Antonio.
the hangover is a 2009 American कॉमेडी फिल्मी, co-produced और directed by टॉड Phillips and लिखा by Jon Lucas and Scott Moore.
It is the पहला film of the hangover मताधिकार.the film stars Bradley कूपर, Ed Helms, zach Galifianakis, हीथर ग्राहम, जस्टिन bartha, और Jeffrey Tambor.
the Hangover tells the स्टोरी of फिल wenneck, stu दाम and एलन गार्नर, who सफर to लास Vegas लिये a bachelor पार्टी to celebrate their dost Doug billings ' impending marriage.
However, फिल, stu और एलन have no मेमोरी of the पिछला रात्रि 's कार्यक्रम and जरूर ढूँढें डग before the wedding can लो प्लेस.
लुकास and Moore wrote the स्क्रिप्ट बाद कार्यपालिका निर्माता Chris Bender 's dost disappeared और था a large विधेयक बाद being भेजा to a strip club.
बाद लुकास और Moore sold it to the स्टुडियो लिये $ 2 लाख, फिलिप्स और जेरेमी Garelick rewrote the script to शामिल a बाघ as खूब as a subplot involving a baby और a पुलिस cruiser, and भी सहित boxer Mike टायसन.
Filming took place in नेवाडा for 15 दिनों, and during फिल्मांकन, the तीन प्रमुख अभिनेताओं ( कूपर, helms और Galifianakis ) formed a दोस्ती.
The Hangover was released on June 5, 2009, बनने a नाजुक और commercial success.
it became the tenth-highest-grossing film of 2009, साथ a worldwide सकल of over US $ 467 लाख.
Critics praised the film 's comedic दृष्टिकोण but criticized it लिये इसके vulgarity.
the फिल्मी जीती the सुनहरी Globe पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन गति चित्र – Musical or कॉमेडी, and received multiple other accolades.
It is the tenth-highest-grossing film of 2009 in the world, as खूब as the दूसरी highest-grossing R-rated comedy कभी in the United राज्य, surpassing a record previously आयोजित by Beverly Hills Cop for लगभग 25 years and later being surpassed by टेड in 2012.
आउट of all r-rated films, it is the तीसरा highest-grossing ever in the u.S., behind तभी The Passion of the Christ और the मेट्रिक्स Reloaded.
a sequel, the Hangover Part II, थी released in 2011, and a third और final फिल्मी, The Hangover भाग iii, is नियत for रिलीज in 2013.
Events involving meiosis, प्रर्दशित chromosomal crossover
Meiosis ( ) is a खास type of कोशिका प्रभाग necessary for यौन जनन in eukaryotes.
the cells उत्पादित by meiosis are गैमीट or spores.
In अनेक organisms, including सब animals and land plants ( but not कुछ other groups ऐसे as fungi ), गैमीट are पुकारा शुक्राणु और egg cells.
whilst the प्रक्रम of meiosis bears a number of similarities साथ the 'life-cycle ' cell प्रभाग process of समसूत्रण, it differs in दो important आदरs:
the chromosomes in meiosis undergo a recombination जिससे shuffles the genes producing a अलग जेनेटिक संयोजन in प्रत्येक gamete, compared with the co-existence of each of the दो पृथक pairs of प्रत्येक chromosome ( one प्राप्त इससे प्रत्येक जनक ) in प्रत्येक cell जिससे परिणाम from mitosis.
the outcome of meiosis is potentially four ( genetically अद्वितीय ) अगुणित cells, compared with the दो ( genetically identical ) diploid कोशिकाएं उत्पादित from mitosis.
meiosis begins साथ एक diploid कोशिका containing दो copies of each chromosome —one इससे the सजीव 's माँ and one इससे इसके father.
The कोशिका divides twice, potentially producing up to चार haploid cells containing one नक़ल of each chromosome.
( `` potentially '' क्युकी in some मामले, ऐसे as the गठन of oocytes in स्तनधारियों, तभी one of the possible four अगुणित कोशिकाएं survives. )
In पशु the haploid cell resulting इससे meiosis is a पुरूष or मादा gamete.
Each of the resulting chromosomes in the gamete कोशिकाएं is a अद्वितीय मिश्रण of मातृ and पैतृक DNA, resulting in offspring that हैं genetically पृथक इससे either parent.
इस देता rise to जेनेटिक diversity in sexually reproducing populations.
This जेनेटिक diversity can provide the variation of शारीरिक और behavioural गुण ( phenotypes ) upon जिससे प्राकृतिक selection can act, but, as वर्णित नीचे in Section 6, Origin और फलन of meiosis, the genetic diversity may be largely a by-product of the समजात recombination कि is primarily employed लिये its डीएनए repair फलन during meiosis.
it is भी noteworthy that during meiosis, विशिष्ट जीनों हैं more अत्यधिक transcribed, और these हैं पुकारा the meiome, the term प्रयुक्त in कार्यात्मक genomics लिये the meiotic transcriptome.
meiosis is a key विशेषता for all sexually reproducing eukaryotes in which समजात chromosome pairing, अन्तर्ग्रथन और recombination occur.
In addition to strong meiotic stage-specific अभिव्यक्ति of mRNA ( the meiome ), however, वहीँ हैं also pervasive translational controls ( e.g. चयनात्मक उपयोग of preformed mRNA ), regulating the परम meiotic stage-specific protein अभिव्यक्ति of genes दौरान meiosis.
यूँ, both the meiome and translational controls determine the व्यापक restructuring of meiotic cells needed to carry आउट meiosis.
Prior to the meiosis process the कोशिका 's chromosomes are duplicated by a गोलाकार of DNA replication, बनाना from the मातृ और paternal versions of प्रत्येक chromosome ( homologs ) दो exact नक़ल, सिस्टर chromatids, attached at the centromere प्रदेश.
In the beginning of meiosis the मातृ और पैतृक homologs जोड़ी to प्रत्येक अन्य.
Then they typically exchange भाग by समजात recombination leading to crossovers of DNA between the मातृ and paternal संस्करण of the chromosome.
spindle fibers bind to the centromeres of प्रत्येक pair of homologs and arrange the pairs at the spindle equator.
तब the fibers pull the recombined homologs to opposite डंडे of the कोशिका.
as the chromosomes move दूर from the बीच the cell divides into दो daughter cells, प्रत्येक containing a अगुणित number of गुणसूत्रों रचित of दो chromatids.
बाद the recombined maternal और पैतृक homologs have separated into the two बेटी कोशिकाएं, a second round of कोशिका division occurs.
वहीँ meiosis ends as the दो सिस्टर chromatids बनाना up प्रत्येक homolog हैं separated और मूव into एक of the चार resulting gamete कोशिकाएं.
Upon fertilization, for उदाहरण when a sperm enters an अंडा cell, two gamete cells produced by meiosis fuse.
The gamete from the mother और the gamete इससे the पिता प्रत्येक contribute एक हाफ of the set of chromosomes that मेक up the नई offspring 's genome.
Meiosis उपयोग many of the same mechanisms as mitosis, a type of कोशिका प्रभाग used by eukaryotes like पौधे and animals to विभाजित one cell into दो identical daughter cells.
In सब पौधे और in अनेक protists meiosis परिणाम in the गठन of बीजाणुओं : अगुणित cells that can divide vegetatively बगैर undergoing fertilization.
मुक्केबाज़ी ( pugilism, prize लड़, the मीठी science or in यूनानी pygmachia ) is a martial art and कॉम्बैट खेल in जिससे two people engage in a contest of शक्ति, speed, reflexes, endurance और होगा by throwing घूंसे with gloved हैंड्स.
amateur मुक्केबाज़ी is an Olympic and राष्ट्रमंडल sport और is a आम fixture in most of the major अंतरराष्ट्रीय games - it भी रै its अपना World championships.
मुक्केबाज़ी is supervised by a रेफरी over a श्रेणी of one- to three-minute intervals called rounds.
the परिणाम is decided when an प्रतिद्वन्दी is deemed incapable to continue by a रेफरी, is disqualified लिये तोड़कर a नियम, resigns by फेंकना in a तौलिया, or is pronounced the winner or हारा based on the न्यायाधीशों ' scorecards at the समाप्त of the contest.
The birth hour of boxing as a sport may be इसके acceptance by the प्राचीन Greeks as an ओलम्पिक खेल as early as 688 BC.
मुक्केबाज़ी विकसित from 16th- और 18th-century prizefights, largely in ग्रेट Britain, to the forerunner of आधुनिक boxing in the mid-19th सदी, again initially in Great ब्रिटेन and बाद in the United राज्य.
In 2004, ईएसपीएन ranked मुक्केबाज़ी as the most difficult sport in the संसार.
अनुबंध or concord happens when a word परिवर्तन रूप depending on the other शब्द to which it relates.
It is an उदाहरण of inflection, and प्रायः involves बनाना the value of some grammatical श्रेणी ( ऐसे as लिंग or व्यक्ति ) `` agree '' between different words or parts of the sentence.
लिये उदाहरण, in Standard अंग्रेज़ी, one may कह I am or he is, but नहीं `` i is '' or `` he am ''.
इस is because the व्याकरण of the भाषा requires कि the क्रिया and its subject सहमत in person.
The pronouns i and he are first और तीसरा व्यक्ति क्रमशः, as are the क्रिया फ़ॉर्म am और is.
The क्रिया रूप must be चयनित so कि it रै the same व्यक्ति as the subject.
The agreement based on overt व्याकरणिक categories as above is औपचारिक अनुबंध, in contrast to notional agreement, जिससे is based on meaning.
For उदाहरण, the phrase The United States is treated as एकवचन लिये purposes of agreement, even though it is formally बहुवचन.
इस is a list of places below औसत sea स्तर that are on जमीन.
स्थान in tunnels, mines, तहखानों, खोदा छेद ( also with open आसमान ), under जल, अंतर्गत बर्फ, or existing temporarily as a परिणाम of ebbing of sea tide इत्यादि. हैं not शामिल.
सब figures हैं in meters नीचे समुद्र level:
डिब्बी Macomber ( born अक्तूबर 22, 1948 in Yakima, वॉशिंगटन ) is a best-selling अमरीकी लेखक of over 150 रोमांस novels and contemporary women 's fiction.
over 140 million copies of उसके books हैं in छपाई throughout the संसार, और चार have become made-for-TV-movies.
Macomber was the inaugural विजेता of the fan-voted Quill Award लिये romance in 2005 and has महरूम awarded both a रोमांस लेखक of अमेरिका रीता and a lifetime achievement award by the Romance Writers of America.
Catonsville is a census-designated place ( cdp ) in Baltimore County, Maryland, संयुक्त राज्य.
The population was 41,567 at the 2010 census.
the community lies to the west of बाल्टीमोर along the नगर 's किनारा.
catonsville is the home of the विश्वविद्यालयों of मेरीलैंड, Baltimore County ( umbc ), a public शोध university साथ over 12,000 विद्यार्थी.
A वकील, according to ब्लैक 's Law शब्दकोष, is `` a व्यक्ति सीखे in the law ; as an attorney, counsel or solicitor ; a person जो is practicing विधि. ''
विधि is the system of नियम of conduct established by the sovereign government of a समाज to सही wrongs, maintain the stability of political and सोशल प्राधिकार, और deliver इंसाफ.
working as a lawyer involves the व्यावहारिक application of अमूर्त विधिक theories और knowledge to solve विशिष्ट individualized समस्याएं, or to advance the interests of those who retain ( i.e., hire ) वकील to perform legal सेवाएं.
the भूमिका of the lawyer varies significantly across विधिक jurisdictions, and so it can be treated यहाँ in तभी the most सामान्य शर्तें.
वेक्टर Marketing is the domestic sales भुजा of Cutco निगम, an olean, नई York आधारित cutlery निर्माता.
The Family and चिकित्सा छोड़ Act of 1993 ( FMLA ) is a संयुक्त राज्य federal law requiring covered employers to provide कर्मचारी job-protected और unpaid छोड़ लिये योग्य चिकित्सा and परिवार reasons.
योग्य medical और परिवार reasons include : निजी or परिवार illness, family military leave, गर्भावस्था, adoption, or the foster care placement of a child.
the FMLA is administered by the Wage and घंटा Division of the संयुक्त States विभाग of Labor.
The विधेयक थी a प्रमुख part of अध्यक्ष विधेयक Clinton 's कार्यसूची in उसके पहला पद.
President क्लिंटन signed the bill into law on February 5, 1993 ( ; 29 u.s.c. सेक. 2601 ; 29 cfr 825 ) और it took प्रभाव on August 5, 1993, six months बाद.
The fmla थी intended `` to संतुलन the demands of the कार्यस्थल with the needs of परिवारों. ''
The Act allows योग्य employees to take up to 12 कार्य weeks of unpaid leave during any 12-month काल to attend to the गंभीर health condition of the कर्मचारी, parent, जीवनसाथी or चाइल्ड, or for pregnancy or परवाह of a नवजात child, or for adoption or फोस्टर care of a child.
in order to be योग्य लिये FMLA छोड़, an employee must have महरूम at the कारोबार at तनिक 12 months, and worked at तनिक 1,250 hours over the past 12 महीने, और कार्य at a location where the कम्पनी employs 50 or अधिक कर्मचारी within 75 मील.
The fmla कवर both public- और private-sector कर्मचारी, लकिन certain categories of employees are excluded, including निर्वाचित officials और उनके personal स्टाफ सदस्यों.
The Vietnam युद्ध ( ) थी a ठंडा युद्ध -era सैन्य conflict that occurred in Vietnam, लाओस, और कंबोडिया from 1 नवम्बर 1955 to the fall of साइगॉन on 30 April 1975.
This युद्ध followed the पहला इंडोचायना War and थी लड़ा between उत्तर वियतनाम, supported by इसके communist allies, and the government of दक्षिण वियतनाम, समर्थित by the संयुक्त राज्य and अन्य anti-communist देशों.
the viet Cong ( also ज्ञात as the National मुक्ति Front, or nlf ), a lightly armed South वियतनामी communist आम front निर्देशित by the उत्तर, largely fought a छापामार युद्ध against anti-communist शक्तियां in the region.
The Vietnam People 's Army ( North Vietnamese Army ) सगाई in a more conventional war, at times committing विशाल इकाई into battle.
u.S. and South Vietnamese शक्तियां relied on air बड़प्पन और overwhelming firepower to conduct ढूंढें and destroy परिचालन, involving मैदान forces, तोपखाने, and airstrikes.
the u.S. government viewed भागीदारी in the war as a way to prevent a कम्युनिस्ट कब्ज़ा of South Vietnam as भाग of उनके wider strategy of containment.
the North वियतनामी government and Viet cong यहूद fighting to reunify वियतनाम under कम्युनिस्ट rule.
वे viewed the conflict as a colonial युद्ध, लड़ा initially against फ़्रांस, backed by the U.S., and बाद विरूद्ध दक्षिण वियतनाम, जिससे it regarded as a U.S. puppet state.
अमरीकी सैन्य advisors arrived in कया was तब French इंडोचायना शुरूआत in 1950.
u.S. involvement escalated in the early 1960s, साथ troop levels tripling in 1961 and tripling again in 1962.
U.S. combat units यहूद deployed शुरूआत in 1965.
परिचालन spanned अंतरराष्ट्रीय सीमायें, with लाओस and कंबोडिया heavily bombed.
American involvement in the war peaked in 1968, at the समय of the tet Offensive.
After इस, U.S. मैदान शक्तियां were धीरे withdrawn as part of a नीति ज्ञात as Vietnamization.
Despite the पेरिस सलाम accords, signed by all पार्टियों in January 1973, लड़ continued.
U.S. सैन्य involvement ended on 15 August 1973 as a परिणाम of the case–church amendment passed by the U.S. Congress.
the कैप्चर of Saigon by the Vietnam लोगों 's फौज in अप्रैल 1975 चिह्नित the समाप्त of the war, and उत्तर and South वियतनाम were reunified the following साल.
the युद्ध exacted a huge इंसान cost in terms of fatalities ( see वियतनाम War casualties ).
Estimates of the number of वियतनामी सैनिको and नागरिकों killed vary इससे 800,000 to 3.1 million.
Some 200,000–300,000 cambodians, 20,000–200,000 laotians, and 58,220 U.S. service members भी died in the conflict.
क्लीवलैंड Volcano in the Aleutian Islands of अलास्का photographed इससे the International स्पेस स्टेशन, may 2006.
राख plumes पहुँचे a ऊँचाई of 19 km during the climactic eruption at Mount pinatubo, Philippines in 1991.
a volcano is an opening, or rupture, in a planet 's सतह or क्रस्ट, जिससे allows hot मैग्मा, volcanic राख and गैसों to एस्केप इससे the मैग्मा कक्ष below the सतह.
Volcanoes हैं generally मिला where tectonic plates हैं diverging or converging.
A mid-oceanic लकीरें, लिये example the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, has examples of ज्वालामुखी caused by divergent tectonic प्लेटों pulling अलावा ; the Pacific रिंग of आग has examples of ज्वालामुखी caused by अभिसारी tectonic plates coming साथ.
By कंट्रास्ट, ज्वालामुखी हैं usually नहीं निर्मित जहाँ दो tectonic प्लेटों स्लाइड past एक another.
ज्वालामुखी can also रूप जहाँ वहीँ is stretching and thinning of the धरती 's crust in the interiors of प्लेटों, e.g., in the East अफ़्रीकी दरार, the Wells gray-clearwater volcanic field और the Rio Grande दरार in North अमेरिका.
इस प्रकार of volcanism falls अंतर्गत the umbrella of `` थाली hypothesis '' volcanism.
volcanism दूर from plate boundaries has also been समझाया as mantle plumes.
These so-called `` हॉटस्पॉट ``, लिये उदाहरण Hawaii, are postulated to उठता from upwelling diapirs साथ मैग्मा इससे the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km deep in the Earth.
erupting volcanoes can pose many जोखिमों, नहीं तभी in the तात्कालिक vicinity of the फटना.
volcanic ash can be a threat to वायुयान, in particular those with जेट इंजन where राख अणु can be melted by the high operating तापमान.
विशाल eruptions can affect temperature as ash और droplets of sulfuric एसिड obscure the sun और cool the धरती 's lower माहौल or क्षोभमण्डल ; however, वे भी absorb ऊष्मा radiated up इससे the धरती, thereby वार्मिंग the stratosphere.
Historically, so-called volcanic सर्दियों have caused catastrophic अकाल.
A गहन pothole on नई York नगर 's दूसरी एवेन्यू
A pothole ( sometimes called a kettle and ज्ञात in भाग of the पश्चिमी संयुक्त States as a chuckhole ) is a type of disruption in the सतह of a roadway where a portion of the सड़क सामग्री has broken away, leaving a छेद.
renal कोशिका कार्सिनोमा ( RCC, भी ज्ञात as hypernephroma ) is a kidney कर्कट कि originates in the lining of the proximal convoluted tubule, the very small tubes in the kidney that हस्तांतरण GF ( glomerular filtrate ) इससे the glomerulus to the descending limb of the nephron.
RCC is the सबसे common type of kidney cancer in adults, responsible लिये approximately 80 % of cases.
it is भी known to be the सबसे lethal of all the genitourinary tumors.
आरंभिक उपचार is सबसे commonly a कट्टरपंथी or आंशिक nephrectomy और remains the mainstay of curative उपचार.
Where the ट्यूमर is confined to the renal parenchyma, the 5-year अस्तित्व रेट is 60-70 %, but इस is lowered considerably जहाँ metastases have spread.
It is relatively resistant to विकिरण therapy and chemotherapy, हालांकि some मामले respond to immunotherapy.
targeted कर्कट therapies such as sunitinib, temsirolimus, bevacizumab, interferon-alpha, and sorafenib have improved the outlook लिये RCC.
estée lauder Companies, Inc. is a निर्माता and marketer of prestige skincare, मेकअप, fragrance और hair परवाह products.
The कम्पनी has इसके headquarters in Midtown Manhattan, New यॉर्क नगर.
The peritoneum ( ) is the serous झिल्ली कि फ़ॉर्म the lining of the abdominal cavity or the coelom —it covers most of the intra-abdominal ( or coelomic ) organs—in amniotes and कुछ invertebrates ( annelids, for instance ).
It is रचित of a परत of mesothelium supported by a thin परत of संयोजी ऊतक.
The peritoneum दोनो supports the abdominal अंगों and serves as a conduit for their blood and lymph vessels and nerves.
The abdominal cavity ( the स्पेस bounded by the vertebrae, abdominal मांसपेशियां, diaphragm और pelvic floor ) should नहीं be उलझन with the intraperitoneal space ( स्तिथ भीतर the abdominal गुहा, लकिन wrapped in peritoneum ).
The structures भीतर the intraperitoneal स्पेस हैं पुकारा `` intraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the stomach ), the structures in the abdominal cavity कि are located पीछे the intraperitoneal स्पेस हैं called `` retroperitoneal `` ( e.g. the kidneys ), और those structures नीचे the intraperitoneal स्पेस are पुकारा `` subperitoneal '' or `` infraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the ब्लैडर ).
Modern 2.5 '' SSD प्रयुक्त in उपभोक्ता लैपटॉप and डेस्कटॉप computers.
ddr SDRAM based SSD.
Max and.
PCI संलग्न io त्वरक SSD
pci-e, DRAM, and NAND आधारित ssd.
It उपयोग an external शक्ति supply to मेक the DRAM non-volatile.
a solid-state ड्राइव ( SSD ) ( also ज्ञात as a solid-state disk or इलेक्ट्रॉनिक डिस्क, though it contains no वास्तविक `` disk '' of any kind ) is a data storage device using एकीकृत सर्किट assemblies as मेमोरी to store आंकड़ा persistently.
ssd technology उपयोग इलेक्ट्रॉनिक अंतरफलक compatible with परंपरागत ब्लाक input/output ( I/O ) hard डिस्क drives.
ssds have no चलती mechanical components, जिससे फर्क them from परंपरागत electromechanical चुम्बकीय डिस्क ऐसे as मुश्किल disk drives ( hdds ) or फ्लॉपी डिस्क, which contain घूम disks and movable read/write heads.
compared साथ electromechanical disks, SSDs हैं typically less susceptible to शारीरिक shock, much quieter, have निम्नतर अभिगम समय, और कम latency.
However, while the price of ssds has जारी to decline in 2012, SSDs हैं स्टिल परिचय 7 to 8 टाइम्स अधिक expensive per ईकाई of भंडार than hdds.
अनेक ssds उपयोग I/O अंतरफलक विकसित लिये मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव, यूँ permitting सरल replacement in common अनुप्रयोग.
, most SSDs उपयोग nand-based फ्लैश मेमोरी, जिससे retains आंकड़ा बगैर शक्ति.
For अनुप्रयोग requiring तेज़ अभिगम, but not necessarily data persistence बाद power घाटा, SSDs may be constructed इससे random-access मेमोरी ( RAM ).
Such डिवाइस may employ separate power sources, ऐसे as बैटरी, to maintain data after शक्ति घाटा.
Hybrid drives or solid राज्य hybrid ड्राइव ( sshd ) combine the सुविधाएँ of SSDs और hdds in the same unit, containing a large मुश्किल disk ड्राइव and an SSD संचय to improve प्रदर्शन of frequently पहुँचा data.
These devices may offer near-ssd performance for many अनुप्रयोग.
Salmon roe ( left ) और sturgeon caviar ( right ) served with माँ of pearl caviar spoons to avoid tainting the taste of the caviar.
ossetra caviar, salmon creme fraiche, आलू shallot croquette, बेसिल oil, अंडा whites और yolks
Caviar, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization, is a product made from salt-cured fish-eggs of the Acipenseridae family.
The roe can be `` भैस '' ( non-pasteurized ) or pasteurized, साथ pasteurization reducing its culinary and economic मान.
Traditionally the term caviar refers तभी to roe इससे जंगली sturgeon in the कैस्पियन and ब्लैक Seas ( बेलुगा, ossetra and Sevruga caviars ).
depending on the country, caviar may भी be प्रयुक्त to describe the roe of अन्य मछली such as salmon, steelhead, ट्राउट, lumpfish, whitefish, और other species of sturgeon.
Caviar is considered a लक्ज़री कोमलता और is खाया as a गार्निश or a spread.
In 2012, caviar sold for $ 2,500 per पाउंड, or $ 3,000 to $ 5,500 प्रति kilo.
The SEC Network is a television अनुप्रयोग network featuring सजीव broadcasts of कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल and basketball events इससे the Southeastern सम्मेलन.
It is owned and operated by ईएसपीएन प्लस and is shown in more than 50 प्रतिशत of households in the संयुक्त States, ज़्यादातर southeastern United राज्य बाज़ार.
the सेक Network typically airs in the noon eastern slot कि was former home to the Raycom खेल सेक खेल of the week.
खेल are दिखाया locally on broadcast stations, regional खेल संजाल, as well as on ईएसपीएन GamePlan, ESPN Full अदालत, और espn3.com.
the SEC Network is also available in Canada via Atlanta 's WPCH-TV.
The SEC संजाल uses the वही on-screen ग्राफिक्स currently used by ईएसपीएन on एबीसी, a संस्करण of ईएसपीएन 's ग्राफिक्स पैकेज.
सेक Network 's फ़ुटबॉल programming still उपयोग a title safe क्षेत्रफल because सबसे of इसके affiliates do नहीं letterbox their मानक Definition फ़ीड्स, while ईएसपीएन 's television networks have अनुमत their ग्राफिक्स to abandon the title सुरक्षित, but letterbox for sd viewers.
starting with the सेक 2012 बास्केट ऋतु, सेक संजाल 's graphics have been converted to a 16:9 widescreen-only format.
This is भी होने प्रयुक्त for the 2013 Basketball season, लकिन had still adapted the पूर्व 4:3-safe graphics format लिये the 2012 सेक फ़ुटबॉल season.
the 1990s, pronounced और भी known as `` the nineteen-nineties '' or abbreviated as `` the nineties '' or `` the '90s '', थी a दशक that began on January 1, 1990, and ended on दिसम्बर 31, 1999.
It थी the 10th and last decade of the 20th century and the 100th and last decade of the 2nd मिलेनियम.
The दशक is best ज्ञात लिये the समाप्त of the Cold War at the beginning of the decade and the विस्तार and व्यावसायीकरण of the Internet during the second half of the दशक.
In much of the West the 1990s is remembered as a period of unprecedented सलाम and समृद्धि, हालांकि अनेक भाग of the so-called Third World faced various समस्याएं including genocide, एड्स and नई or continuing जातीय tensions और civil wars.
culturally speaking the decade थी characterized by the rise of बहुसंस्कृतिवाद and वैकल्पिक media.
आंदोलनों such as grunge, the rave scene और हिप hop spread around the संसार to young people दौरान the दशक, aided by then-new प्रौद्योगिकी such as केबल टेलीविज़न और the अंतरजाल.
A combination of factors, including the mass mobilization of पूंजी बाज़ार through neoliberalism, the beginning of the widespread अप्रसार of नई मीडिया ऐसे as the Internet, और the विच्छेद of the सोवियत संघ led to a realignment और reconsolidation of economic और political power across the संसार, और within देशों.
Income असमानता among देशों in the संसार रोज़ sharply between the 1980s and the mid-1990s, पहले levelling off and तब falling बाद 2000.
New ethnic conflicts उभरा in Africa, the Balkans and the Caucasus, the पूर्व दो which led to the Rwandan नरसंहार and बोस्नियाई नरसंहार, respectively.
The संयुक्त States began its वर्तमान सैन्य occupation of the Middle ईस्ट दौरान the summer of 1990 साथ Desert शील्ड बाद it काटें off a large portion of the world 's petroleum सप्लाई.
Signs of any रेज़ोल्यूशन of tensions between इसराईल और the Arab world remained elusive, though the Irish परेशानियों came to a standstill in 1998 साथ the शुभ Friday Agreement बाद 30 सालो of हिंसा.
the gray भेड़िया or धूसर wolf ( canis lupus ) is a प्रजाति of canid देशी to the wilderness and रिमोट areas of उत्तर America, यूरेशिया, and North Africa.
It is the largest member of इसके family, साथ males averaging, and महिलाओं.
it is समान in general appearance और proportions to a German shepherd, or sled श्वान, but रै a larger सिर, narrower chest, longer legs, straighter टेल and bigger पंजे.
Its winter फर is long और bushy, and predominantly a mottled धूसर in रंग, हालांकि nearly pure white, रेड, or भूरा to black also occur.
भीतर the genus canis, the gray wolf represents a अधिक specialised and प्रगतिशील form than इसके smaller cousins ( the कायोटी and सुनहरी jackal ), as demonstrated by इसके morphological adaptations to शिकार विशाल शिकार, its अधिक gregarious प्रकृति and इसके highly advanced expressive बर्ताव.
It is a social animal, travelling in nuclear families consisting of a mated जोड़ी, accompanied by the जोड़ी 's वयस्क औलाद.
The gray भेड़िया is typically an apex परभक्षी throughout इसके दायरा, साथ only इंसानो और tigers पोज़ a गंभीर threat to it.
it feeds primarily on विशाल ungulates, though it also eats छोटी animals, पशुधन, carrion, and garbage.
the धूसर wolf is one of the संसार 's सबसे खूब शोधकार्य पशु, साथ संभवतः more books written परिचय it than कोई other वन्यजीव species.
It has a long history of संघ with humans, having been despised और hunted in सबसे agricultural समुदायों due to its हमले on पशुधन, while conversely होने respected by कुछ Native अमरीकी जनजातियों.
It is the sole ancestor of the dog, which was पहला domesticated in the मध्य East.
हालांकि the fear of भेड़ियों is प्रचलित in many human societies, the majority of recorded attacks on people have महरूम attributed to animals suffering from rabies.
Non-rabid wolves have attacked और killed people, मुख्यतः children, but this is unusual, as wolves are relatively few, live away from people, and have महरूम taught to fear इंसानो by hunters and shepherds.
शिकार and trapping रै घटाया the प्रजाति ' range to, though इसके स्टिल अपेक्षाकृत widespread दायरा and stable जनसांख्यिकी means कि the species is not threatened at a वैश्विक level, और is therefore वर्गीकृत by the IUCN as Least चिंता.
the Roman Empire ( ) थी the post- Republican period of the प्राचीन रोमन सभ्यता, characterised by an autocratic form of सरकारी and विशाल territorial holdings around the भूमध्यसागरीय in यूरोपीय, अफ़्रीकी, and एशिया.
the 500-year-old Roman गणतंत्र, जिससे preceded it, था been destabilized through a series of सिविल wars.
अनेक कार्यक्रम चिह्नित the परिवर्तन from Republic to साम्राज्य, सहित जूलियस Caesar 's नियुक्ति as perpetual तानाशाह ( 44 bc ) ; the Battle of actium ( 31 BC ) ; और the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the Roman Senate ( 27 bc ).
The पहला दो सदियां of the Empire यहूद a काल of unprecedented stability and समृद्धि ज्ञात as the pax romana ( `` Roman Peace '' ).
It पहुँचे its महानतम expanse दौरान the शासनकाल of त्राजान ( 98–117 AD ).
in the 3rd सदी, the Empire underwent a संकट कि threatened its existence, but was reunified and stabilized under the emperors Aurelian and Diocletian.
ईसाइयों रोज़ to power in the 4th सदी, during जिससे समय a प्रणाली of dual नियम was developed in the Latin वेस्ट और यूनानी East.
After the पतन of central government in the West in the 5th century, the पूर्वी हाफ जारी as what would later be ज्ञात as the बीज़ान्टिन Empire.
Because of the साम्राज्य 's विशाल extent और long endurance, the institutions और संस्कृति of Rome had a profound and lasting influence on the विकास of भाषा, धर्म, वास्तुकला, philosophy, विधि, और forms of सरकारी in the territory it governed, particularly यूरोपीय, और by means of European expansionism throughout the modern world.
शिक्षा in the संयुक्त States is mainly provided by the पब्लिक sector, साथ control और funding coming इससे three levels : local, राज्य, और federal, in that order.
चाइल्ड education is अनिवार्य, and there are also a large क्रमांक and चौड़ी किस्में of higher शिक्षा institutions throughout the देश कि एक can choose to attend, both सरेआम and privately administered.
Public education is universally उपलब्धियाँ.
स्कूल curricula, funding, शिक्षण, employment, और अन्य नीतियों are set through locally elected school फलक with क्षेत्राधिकार over स्कूल districts साथ many directives from राज्य legislatures.
School districts हैं usually पृथक इससे अन्य लोकल jurisdictions, साथ स्वतंत्र officials and budgets.
शैक्षणिक मानकों और standardized testing decisions are प्रायः made by state सरकारें.
the आयु for compulsory शिक्षा vary by state.
it begins इससे ages five to आठ और ends from ages चौदह to eighteen.
Compulsory शिक्षा आवश्यकताएँ can generally be satisfied by educating children in पब्लिक schools, state-certified निजी schools, or an स्वीकृत home school कार्यक्रम.
in सबसे public और private schools, शिक्षा is विभाजित into three levels : elementary स्कूल, मध्य school ( sometimes पुकारा जूनियर high स्कूल ), and ऊँची school ( sometimes referred to as द्वितीयक शिक्षा ).
In almost सब schools at these levels, children are divided by age groups into ग्रेड, ranging from किंडरगार्टन ( followed by first grade ) लिये the youngest children in elementary स्कूल, up to twelfth grade, the final साल of high school.
The exact आयु range of students in these grade स्तर varies slightly from area to क्षेत्रफल.
Post-secondary शिक्षा, better ज्ञात as `` college `` in the संयुक्त राज्य, is generally governed separately इससे the elementary and high स्कूल प्रणाली, और is described in a पृथक section below.
सरकारी supported, free पब्लिक schools for all प्रारंभ होने स्थापित बाद the revolution, and expanded in the 19th century, as the results of प्रयत्न of मेन जैसे Horace मन and Booker T. Washington.
By 1870, all states had free elementary schools, albeit only in urban centers.
As the 20th सदी drew nearer, states started गुजर laws to मेक schooling अनिवार्य, and by 1910, 72 प्रतिशत of children attended स्कूल.
निजी schools continued to spread दौरान this time, as well as कॉलेजों and—in the rural centers— land grant colleges.
the साल of 1910 also saw the first सच्चा ऊँची schools.
During the rest of the 20th century, educational efforts centered on reducing the inequality of the schooling प्रणाली.
the लैंडमार्क परम् अदालत case भूरा v. Board of Education बना the desegregation of elementary and high schools a national प्रधानता, while the pell Grant कार्यक्रम helped ग़रीब अल्पसंख्यकों gain access to कॉलेज.
खास education थी बना into federal विधि in 1975.
The Elementary और Secondary Education अधिनियम of 1965 बना standardized परीक्षण a requirement, और in 1983, a आयोग was स्थापित to evaluate their results और propose a कोर्स of कार्रवाई.
The resulting no Child Left पीछे अधिनियम of 2001 थी controversial and its लक्ष्य proved to be unrealistic.
a commission established in 2006 evaluated उच्चतर शिक्षा, but इसके सुझाव have yet to be fully implemented.
पॉल ब्रैग ( February 6, 1895 – दिसम्बर 7, 1976 ), nutritionist, was a पायोनियर in america’s तंदुरुस्ती गति.
Health spending per capita, in $ US ppp-adjusted, with the US और कनाडा compared amongst other पहला संसार nations.
Comparison of the health परवाह systems in Canada और the United States are प्रायः made by सरकारी, पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य and public policy विश्लेषकों.
the two देशों था समान health care systems before कनाडा reformed इसके प्रणाली in the 1960s और 1970s.
the United राज्य spends much अधिक money on health care than Canada, on दोनो a per-capita basis and as a percentage of जीडीपी.
In 2006, per-capita बिता for health care in Canada was US $ 3,678 ; in the U.S., US $ 6,714.
the u.S. खर्च 15.3 % of जीडीपी on स्वास्थ्य care in that साल ; Canada खर्च 10.0 %.
in 2006, 70 % of स्वास्थ्य परवाह बिता in कनाडा थी financed by government, बनाम 46 % in the संयुक्त States.
Total सरकारी बिता per capita in the u.S. on health परवाह थी 23 % higher than कनाडाई government बिता, और U.S. government expenditure on health care थी just under 83 % of total कनाडाई बिता ( public और private ) हालांकि ये आंकडे do n't लो into खाता जनसांख्यिकी differences.
अध्ययन have आइये to अलग conclusions about the परिणाम of इस disparity in spending.
A 2007 पुनर्विलोकन of सब studies comparing health outcomes in Canada और the us in a कनाडाई peer-reviewed medical जर्नल मिला कि `` स्वास्थ्य outcomes may be श्रेष्ठ in patients cared for in Canada versus the United States, but differences are not consistent. ''
Life expectancy is longer in कनाडा, and इसके infant मृत्यु रेट is lower than कि of the u.S., लकिन there is debate परिचय the underlying causes of these मतभेद.
एक commonly cited तुलना, the 2000 संसार स्वास्थ्य Organization 's ratings of `` overall स्वास्थ्य सेवा performance '', which used a `` composite measure of उपलब्धि in the स्तर of स्वास्थ्य, the distribution of health, the स्तर of responsiveness and fairness of financial योगदान '', ranked कनाडा 30th और the US 37th among 191 सदस्य nations.
This पढ़ाई रेटेड the US `` responsiveness '', or विशेषता of service लिये individuals receiving उपचार, as 1st, compared साथ 7th लिये Canada.
While the average life प्रत्याशा लिये canadians थी 80.34 सालो compared with 78.6 सालो लिये residents of the US, simply comparing the जीवन expectancy of दो groups with अलग जातिगत makeup और different मोटापा दरों is संभावित नहीं an effective रास्ता of determining which healthcare system is श्रेष्ठ.
the जो 's पढ़ाई methods were criticized by कुछ analyses.
Although वहीँ is a माप of सर्वसम्मति कि life-expectancy और शिशु mortality चिह्नित the सबसे विश्वसनीय ways to compare nation-wide स्वास्थ्य care, assuming the जनसांख्यिकी makeup is समान, a हाल report by the Congressional शोध Service carefully summarizes कुछ हाल आंकड़ा और notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons.
the sound source रै now टूटा through the sound गति अवरोध, और is traveling at 1.4 times the गति of ध्वनि, ( mach 1.4 ).
Since the सोर्स is moving faster ( साथ a गति ) than the sound लहरें it creates, it actually लीड the advancing wavefront.
the ध्वनि सोर्स will pass by a stationary निरीक्षक ( with a गति ) पहले the observer दरअसल hears the sound it creates.
as a परिणाम, an निरीक्षक in front of the source होगा detect
और an निरीक्षक पीछे the सोर्स.
a sonic boom produced by an वायुयान चलती at M=2.92, गणना इससे the cone कोण of 20 degrees.
An observer hears the boom when the शॉक वेव, on the किनारे of the cone, crosses उसके or उसके स्थान.
mach cone angle
A सोनिक बूम is the sound संबद्ध साथ the शॉक waves निर्मित by an ऑब्जेक्ट traveling through the एयर तेज़ than the speed of sound.
Sonic booms generate enormous amounts of ध्वनि उर्जा, sounding much like an विस्फोट.
the crack of a सुपरसोनिक bullet गुजर overhead is an उदाहरण of a sonic boom in miniature.
The tonight दिखाएँ साथ Jay Leno is an American late-night बात show hosted by jay Leno that initially aired इससे may 25, 1992 to may 29, 2009, और resumed production on कूच 1, 2010.
the चौथी incarnation of the Tonight Show franchise made इसके डेब्यू on May 25, 1992, three दिनों following Johnny कार्सन 's रिटायरमेंट as मेजबान of the program.
The program originates इससे NBC Studios in burbank, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, और is broadcast सोमवार through शुक्रवार at 11:35 PM in the पूर्वी and Pacific समय zones ( 10:35 pm Central / Mountain time ).
Unlike कार्सन or उसके predecessor Jack paar, लीनो only एकबार utilized a guest मेजबान, preferring to host the श्रेणी by खुद.
On अप्रैल 26, 1999, the दिखाएँ began broadcasting in 1080i HDTV, becoming the first अमरीकी nightly talk दिखाएँ to be शॉट in high definition.
the show is शॉट in 16:9 पहलू ratio.
The श्रेणी, which followed the same मौलिक स्वरूप as कि of his predecessors ( an खोलने monologue followed by comedy routines, interviews और performances ), ran until May 29, 2009, बाद which Leno थी succeeded by Conan O'Brien.
एनबीसी signed लीनो to a नई deal लिये a nightly बात show in the 10:00 pm et timeslot.
the प्राइमटाइम श्रेणी, titled The jay Leno दिखाएँ, debuted on September 14, 2009, following a समान format to the Leno अवतार of tonight.
neither o'brien 's version of the कार्यक्रम, which premiered June 1, 2009, nor the Jay लीनो दिखाएँ उत्पन्न the ratings कि NBC had अपेक्षित.
the network decided to मूव a सघन 30-minute संस्करण of लीनो 's show to O'Brien 's time slot, और O'Brien 's tonight दिखाएँ a half-hour later.
इस निर्णय met साथ विपक्ष from o'brien, whose कार्यावधि on The tonight दिखाएँ ended जनवरी 22, 2010, बाद जिससे he began his अपना talk दिखाएँ on TBS.
the tonight Show साथ Jay लीनो then began इसके दूसरी and current incarnation, the छठे of the मताधिकार, on March 1, 2010.
rfid chip next to a grain of rice.
This चिप contains a radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ील्ड कुंडली that modulates an external magnetic फ़ील्ड to ट्रांसफ़र a coded identification number when queried by a रीडर device.
इस छोटी प्रकार is incorporated in consumer products, and implanted in pets, for पहचान purposes.
Radio-frequency identification ( rfid ) is the बेतार non-contact उपयोग of radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक fields to transfer data, for the purposes of automatically identifying और ट्रैकिंग टैग attached to वस्तुएँ.
the टैग contain electronically stored information.
कुछ टैग हैं संचालित and पढ़ा at short सीमाएँ ( a few मीटर ) via magnetic fields ( electromagnetic induction ).
Others use a लोकल power source such as a battery, or else have no battery लकिन collect energy from the interrogating em field, and then act as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or uhf रेडियो लहरें ( i.e., electromagnetic विकिरण at ऊँची बारंबारता ).
Battery powered टैग may operate at hundreds of meters.
नापसंद a बार code, the टैग करता नहीं necessarily need to be भीतर लकीर of sight of the reader, और may be अंतःस्थापित in the tracked ऑब्जेक्ट.
rfid tags are प्रयुक्त in many उद्योग.
An rfid tag attached to an automobile during production can be used to track its progress through the सभा लकीर.
Pharmaceuticals can be tracked through warehouses.
Livestock और पालतु may have tags injected, allowing positive पहचान of the एनिमल.
चूंकि RFID tags can be attached to clothing, possessions, or even implanted भीतर people, the possibility of पढना personally-linked information बगैर सहमति रै उठाया privacy चिंताएं.
id, अहंकार और super-ego are the three parts of the psychic apparatus पारिभाषित in Sigmund फ्रायड 's structural model of the psyche ; वे are the three theoretical constructs in शर्तें of जिनकी कार्यकलाप और बातचीत दिमागी life is वर्णित.
According to इस model of the psyche, the id is the set of uncoordinated instinctual रुझान ; the super-ego plays the नाजुक और moralizing role ; और the अहंकार is the organized, realistic भाग that mediates between the इच्छाओं of the id and the super-ego.
the super-ego can रोकें you from doing certain बाते that अपना id may want you to do.
Even हालांकि the model is structural and makes reference to an apparatus, the id, ego और super-ego हैं functions of the mind rather than भाग of the दिमाग और do नहीं correspond one-to-one with वास्तविक somatic structures of the kind dealt with by neuroscience.
the अवधारणाओं themselves arose at a लेट stage in the विकास of Freud 's thought : the `` structural मॉडल '' ( which succeeded his `` आर्थिक model '' और `` topographical मॉडल '' ) was पहला discussed in his 1920 essay `` Beyond the Pleasure Principle `` और थी formalized और elaborated upon three सालो बाद in उसके `` the अहंकार और the id ``.
फ्रायड 's प्रस्ताव was influenced by the ambiguity of the term `` बेहोश `` and its many conflicting उपयोग.
एयर Force rotc emblem
the एयर फ़ोर्स आरक्षित अधिकारी प्रशिक्षण Corps ( afrotc ) is एक of the three primary commissioning sources for अधिकारियों in the संयुक्त राज्य एयर Force, the अन्य two being the United राज्य Air Force Academy ( USAFA ) and Air Force अधिकारी Training स्कूल ( OTS ).
a अधीनस्थ command of the Air विश्वविद्यालयों भीतर the Air शिक्षा and प्रशिक्षण Command ( aetc ), afrotc is aligned under the Jeanne M. Holm बीच लिये अधिकारी accessions और नागरिक Development at Maxwell AFB, Alabama.
The Holm बीच, formerly known as the Air फ़ोर्स Officer Accession और Training Schools ( afoats ), retains सीधा responsibility for both AFROTC और ots.
afrotc is the largest और oldest सोर्स of commissioned अधिकारियों लिये the U.S. Air Force.
afrotc 's stated mission is to उपज quality नेताओ लिये the u.S. Air फ़ोर्स.
afrotc units हैं located on 144 college और university campuses with 984 additional संस्थानों of higher सीखना participating in cross-town agreements कि allow उनके विद्यार्थी to attend afrotc classes at a nearby `` host '' college or university.
According to AFOATS hq, in 2006, afrotc commissioned 2,083 यूएसएएफ Second lieutenants, with AFROTC नामांकन ranging इससे 23,605 in 1985 to 10,231 in 1993, और around 13,000 नामांकित आज.
afrotc इकाई at colleges और विश्वविद्यालयों are called `` detachments, '' और are typically headed by an active ड्यूटी USAF officer in the rank of कर्नल or lieutenant कर्नल जो functions as both the detachment Commander for यूएसएएफ उद्देश्य and साथ the nominal शीर्षक of प्राध्यापक of aerospace अध्ययन ( pas ) भीतर the institution 's अकादमिक जातियाँ.
सबसे कॉलेजों and universities will designate the AFROTC detachment as the Department of Aerospace अध्ययन.
the PAS is assisted by three to चार सहायक Professors of Aerospace अध्ययन ( apas ), all क्रियाशील ड्यूटी यूएसएएफ officers in the ranks of प्रमुख or captain.
तीन यूएसएएफ non-commissioned अधिकारियों and एक senior non-commissioned अधिकारी will typically provide सैन्य administrative support and are often augmented by एक to दो civilian स्टाफ support कर्मचारी of the अकादमिक institution.
Within afrotc detachments, the students ( referred to as `` cadets '' ) are organized into wings, समूह, squadrons, and फ़्लाइट, mirroring the यूएसएएफ कार्यात्मक wing ढांचा.
the afrotc detachment 's cadet wing or cadet group is separated into two divisions : the General सैन्य कोर्स ( GMC ) consisting of the first two सालो of प्रशिक्षण, and the पेशेवर अधिकारी कोर्स ( POC ) consisting of the last two सालो of training.
The AFROTC कार्यक्रम is भी divided into two प्रशिक्षण functions : the Academic कक्षा Program ( aerospace अध्ययन classes ) और Cadet Activities ( i.e., नेतृत्व प्रयोगशाला, Physical प्रशिक्षण, और अन्य प्रशिक्षण ).
पेपर density ( भी known as basis वज़न और grammage ) is a पद used in the pulp और पेपर industry and भी लिये fabric उद्योग to denote a माप of द्रव्यमान of the product per ईकाई of क्षेत्रफल लिये a type of fabric, पेपर or paperboard.
the term `` density '' is not प्रयुक्त in its परंपरागत भाव of द्रव्यमान प्रति ईकाई volume.
`` Paper घनत्व '', rather, is a माप of the क्षेत्रफल density.
पेपर products that let छोटी or no light pass through ( e.g. पोस्टर board ) हैं माना dense or heavy.
पेपर उत्पाद that allow कुछ लाइट to pass through ( e.g. ऊतक पेपर ) हैं considered lightweight.
In the pulp और paper industry, it is common to set a वाणिज्यिक paper यंत्र to produce पेपर to a target paper घनत्व.
पेपर घनत्व can भी be used to फर्क paper from paperboard as the latter प्रायः has a grammage greater than 134 g/m2.
Two तरीके of expressing पेपर घनत्व हैं commonly उपयोगd:
Expressed in grams per square मीटर ( g/m2 ), पेपर घनत्व is भी known as grammage.
This is the माप used in सबसे parts of the संसार.
Expressed in terms of the mass ( expressed as weight ) per number of चादरें, it is ज्ञात as आधार weight.
the सम्मेलन used in the United राज्य और a few other countries using us पेपर sizes is pounds of a ream of 500 ( or in कुछ मामले 1000 ) sheets of a given ( raw, स्टिल uncut ) आधार आकार.
Japanese paper is expressed as the weight in kg of 1000 चादरें.
Candace Nicole Parker ( born April 19, 1986 ) is an American बास्केट player for the wnba 's लॉस एंजिल्स स्पार्क्स and UMMC Ekaterinburg of Russia.
वो is the younger सिस्टर of एनबीए खिलाड़ी एंथोनी पार्कर.
She attended the University of टेनेसी और थी drafted by the स्पार्क्स in 2008.
She may be best ज्ञात for being the first स्त्री to dunk in an NCAA tournament खेल and the first स्त्री to dunk twice in a कॉलेज game—she set both माइलस्टोन as a redshirt freshman on कूच 19, 2006.
She also became तभी the second खिलाड़ी to dunk in a WNBA game on June 22, 2008.
a बहुमुखी खिलाड़ी, वो is मुख्यतः a forward, but was listed on Tennessee 's रोस्टर as a आगे, बीच, और guard.
She थी a starter on the महिला vols basketball team, विजेता of the 2007 and 2008 ncaa championships.
पार्कर won the 2009 Nickelodeon Kids ' चुनाव पुरस्कार as the पसंदीदा female athlete in the sports category.
और she was a अतिथि star on फिगर It आउट.
A खाना guide पिरामिड is a पिरामिड shaped मार्गदर्शिका of healthy foods divided into sections to show the recommended intake लिये प्रत्येक खाना समूह.
The first food पिरामिड was published in Sweden in 1974.
The सबसे widely known food पिरामिड थी introduced by the संयुक्त राज्य Department of Agriculture in the year 1992, was updated in 2005, and तब replaced in 2011.
over 25 other देशों and संगठनों have भी प्रकाशित food पिरामिडों.
Hans ईसाई Andersen ( ; often referred to in scandinavia as H. C. Andersen ; अप्रैल 2, 1805August 4, 1875 ) थी a डैनिश author और poet.
हालांकि a prolific writer of plays, travelogues, novels, and poems, Andersen is best remembered for उसके परी किस्से, a literary genre he so mastered कि he खुद has become as mythical as the किस्से he wrote.
andersen 's लोकप्रियता is नहीं limited to children ; his stories—called, or `` fantastic किस्से '' —express themes कि transcend आयु और राष्ट्रीयता.
दौरान his आजीवन he was acclaimed for having प्रसन्न children worldwide और was feted by रॉयल्टी.
andersen 's परी किस्से, जिससे have been translated into more than 125 भाषाएं, have become culturally embedded in the West 's सामूहिक consciousness, readily accessible to children, but पेश lessons of पुण्य और resilience in the face of adversity लिये mature पाठक as well.
वे have प्रेरित गति तस्वीरें, plays, नाटिकाओं, और animated films.
दो figures locking आँखें in caravaggio 's The Fortune teller
नजर contact occurs जब `` दो लोगों look at each other 's आँखें at the वही time. ''
In human beings, eye सम्पर्क is a रूप of अशाब्दिक संचार और is thought to have a विशाल influence on सोशल बर्ताव.
Coined in the जल्दी to mid-1960s, the term has come in the West to प्रायः define the अधिनियम as a सार्थक and महत्वपूर्ण sign of विश्वास और सोशल संचार.
the कस्टम और significance of eye contact vary widely between cultures, साथ धार्मिक और social मतभेद प्रायः altering इसके meaning greatly.
The पढ़ाई of eye contact is sometimes ज्ञात as oculesics.
bed bugs हैं parasitic कीट of the cimicid परिवार कि फीड exclusively on रक्त.
The term most commonly refers to members of the genus cimex of which cimex lectularius, the आम bed bug, is the बेहतरीन ज्ञात as it prefers to feed on human blood हालांकि other Cimex प्रजाति हैं specialized to other पशु, e.g., चमगादड़ bugs, C. pipistrelli ( Europe ), C. pilosellus ( पश्चिमी us ), और C. adjunctus ( संपूर्ण पूर्वी US ).
The नाम of the `` bed कीड़ा '' is derived इससे the preferred habitat of Cimex lectularius : warm घरों and विशेषकर आसपास or अंदर of beds और bedding or अन्य नींद areas.
Bed bugs are mainly active at रात्रि, लकिन हैं not exclusively nocturnal.
वे प्रायः feed on उनके hosts without होने noticed.
A क्रमांक of प्रतिकूल स्वास्थ्य effects may result इससे bed bug bites, including skin rashes, मनोवैज्ञानिक प्रभाव, और allergic symptoms.
Diagnosis involves both ढूंढना bed बग and the occurrence of संगत लक्षण.
bed बग have been ज्ञात as इंसान parasites लिये thousands of years.
at a point in the जल्दी 1940s, वे were ज़्यादातर eradicated in the developed संसार, लकिन have increased in व्यापकता चूंकि 1995.
Because infestation of इंसान habitats has महरूम on the बढ़ाएँ, bed कीड़ा bites and सम्बन्धित conditions have महरूम on the वृद्धि as खूब.
The Book of यशायाह ( ) is the पहला of the latter नबियों in the Hebrew Bible, preceding ezekiel, Jeremiah और the Book of the बारह.
( The अनुक्रम of the subsequent books differs somewhat in the ईसाई Old वसीयत ).
The पहला 39 अध्याय prophesy doom for a गुनाहगार यहूदा और लिये सब the nations of the world कि oppose परमेश्वर, while the last 27 prophesy the restoration of the स्वदेश of Israel और a new सृष्टि in परमेश्वर 's गौरवशाली भविष्य किंगडम ; this section शामिल the गीतों of the Suffering Servant, चार पृथक passages referring to the स्वदेश of Israel, interpreted by Christians as prefiguring the coming of यीशु Christ.
Tradition ascribes authorship of the book to Isaiah बेटे of amoz, लकिन now विद्वानों widely सहमत that the किताब is the कार्य of three different लेखक - few विद्वानों deny इस दृश्य, और those that do, do so लिये theological reasons.
The first, termed proto-isaiah ( chapters 1–39 ), contains the words of the 8th-century bce नबी with 7th-century bce expansions ; the दूसरी, deutero-isaiah ( chapters 40–55 ), is the कार्य of a 6th-century bce लेखक writing near the end of the babylonian captivity ; and the तीसरा, the poetic Trito-Isaiah ( chapters 56–66 ), थी composed in Jerusalem shortly बाद the वापसी from exile, संभवतः by अनेक authors.
ऑरेगॉन State University ( osu ) is a coeducational, public शोध university located in Corvallis, ऑरेगॉन, United States.
The university offers undergraduate, ग्रैजुएट और डॉक्टरेट डिग्री और a multitude of research opportunities.
वहीँ are अधिक than 200 अकादमिक degree कार्यक्रम offered through the university.
OSU 's कार्यक्रम in microbiology, नाभिकीय अभियान्त्रिकी, ecology, forestry, पब्लिक health, biochemistry, zoology, oceanography, खाना विज्ञान and फार्मेसी are recognized nationally as शीर्ष tier programs.
the osu 's उदार arts programs have भी grown significantly and the department is considered a `` cornerstone '' of the institution.
अधिक than 200,000 people have attended osu since its founding.
The Carnegie न्यास classifies ऑरेगॉन राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों as part of इसके top tier of शोध institutions.
As of 2008, osu is एक of तभी seventy-three land-grant विश्वविद्यालयों.
the school is also recognized as a sea-grant, space-grant and sun-grant institution, बनाना it one of तभी दो US संस्थानों to retain all चार designations and the only public विश्वविद्यालयों to do so ( कॉर्नेल is the तभी अन्य साथ समान designations ).
As one of the दो flagship विश्वविद्यालयों of the Oregon University प्रणाली, osu receives अधिक funding लिये शोध, annually, than सब other public higher education संस्थानों in Oregon combined.
मादा ejaculation is the expulsion of fluid by human females from the paraurethral नलिकाएं through और around the female urethra during or before an orgasm.
It is also ज्ञात colloquially as gushing or squirting, although these हैं माना to be अलग phenomena in कुछ शोध publications.
the exact source और nature of the fluid continue to be a topic of debate among medical पेशेवर, जिससे is भी सम्बन्धित to संदेह over the अस्तित्व of the G-Spot.
The Kanab ambersnail, scientific नाम oxyloma haydeni kanabensis or Oxyloma kanabense, is a critically endangered subspecies or प्रजाति of छोटी, air-breathing जमीन घोंघा, a स्थलीय pulmonate gastropod mollusc in the परिवार Succineidae, the amber घोंघे.
The आम नाम of the एम्बर घोंघे is आधारित on the shell, जिससे is पारदर्शी and when खाली usually resembles amber in color.
इस प्रजाति is endemic to the संयुक्त States, specifically the राज्य of एरिज़ोना and यूटा, where it was पहला एकत्रित in the early 20th century.
It रै महरूम listed as endangered on the United राज्य मछली और वन्यजीव Service सूची of endangered प्रजाति since 8 August 1991.
This घोंघा lives in वेटलैंड्स, springs, और seeps, और only two of इसके natural habitats हैं ज्ञात to exist : तीन झीलों, a meadow निकट Kanab, Utah, and vasey 's स्वर्ग, a वसन्त साथ the Colorado River within ग्रैंड canyon National पार्क.
In its प्राकृतिक आवास it is rather polyphagous, feeding mainly on bacteria, plants और fungi, and reproduces during the गर्मियाँ.
अभी माना a Critically Endangered प्रजाति on the आईयूसीएन रेड सूची of threatened Species due to a श्रेणी of कारकों ( सहित influence ), the Kanab ambersnail रै महरूम reintroduced to three स्रोतों above the historic high water level साथ the Colorado River.
The स्पेनी भाषा is the दूसरी most प्रयुक्त भाषा in the United States.
There are more स्पेनी speakers in the संयुक्त राज्य than there are speakers of Chinese, French, जर्मनी, इतालवी, Hawaiian, and the देशी American languages combined.
According to the 2010 अमरीकी Community Survey conducted by the U.S. जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो, Spanish is the प्राथमिक भाषा बोला at home by almost 37 लाख लोगों aged पाँच or पुरानी, a figure more than दोगुना that of 1990.
वहीँ are 45 लाख Hispanophones जो बोलो Spanish as a पहला or दूसरी language, as well as छह million स्पेनी भाषा विद्यार्थी, composing the largest नेशनल Spanish-speaking जातियाँ बाहर of Mexico and making Spanish the Romance language और the Indo-European भाषा साथ largest क्रमांक of native अध्यक्षों in the world.
Roughly half of all U.S. स्पेनी speakers also बोलो अंग्रेज़ी `` बहुत well, '' आधारित on the self-assessment Census question उत्तरदाताओं.
the भाषा came to the country चूंकि the 16th and 17th centuries साथ the arrival of Spanish colonists in areas that would later become the राज्य of Florida, टेक्सास, Colorado, नई मैक्सिको, एरिज़ोना, नेवाडा, यूटा, और California and of the स्पेनी explorers - जो explored क्षेत्रों of 42 states-.
Also वेस्ट of louisiana Territory was स्पेनी between 1763 - 1800 ( साल of the फ्रेंच रिकवरी of territory ), after the French and Indian War.
बाद of the incorporation of ये राज्य to the U.S. in first half of 19th सदी, the Spanish भाषा थी later reinforced by the अधिग्रहण of Puerto Rico in 1898 और by बाद लहरें of the Hispanic करणों, basically from Hispanic America, to the United राज्य शुरूआत in the second हाफ of 19th सदी जबतक आज.
is a लैटिन शब्द that अर्थात् `` यूँ '' or, in writing, `` it was यूँ in the source material ''.
Sic may भी refer to:
Sic, Cluj, a कम्यून in रोमानिया
sic, the क्षेत्रीय कोड for Sicily
Sic ( noise artist ), styled as [ sic ], स्टेज नाम of Jennifer Morris, a Canadian रव artist
Sic ( बैंड ) is a आधुनिक hardcore/thrash मेटल बैंड इससे Torshavn, the capital of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '', a सोंग by American बैंड Slipknot on the एल्बम Slipknot
sic, the initial of Marco simoncelli.
SIC as an एक्रोनिम may stand for:
sic, Silicon कार्बाइड, a semiconducting सामग्री, also प्रयुक्त to मेक धातुकर्म टूल्स
SIC ( cyclecar ) ( società Italiana Cyclecars )
मानक Industrial Classification, a 20th-century u.S. प्रणाली for classifying industries
अंतरराष्ट्रीय मानक औद्योगिक Classification a un प्रणाली for आर्थिक activities
शेटलैंड आइलैंड्स परिषद
the स्विस Interbank clearing system
San Isidro Club, an अर्जेंटाइन rugby संघ club
खड़ा Interpretation कमेटी, a committee dedicated to the interpretation of अंतरराष्ट्रीय हिसाब standards ifrs
schwarz सूचना मानदंड in the field of statistics
second-in-command in the फ़ील्ड of aviation
Sistema Interconectado सेंट्रल power ग्रिड in Chile
Sociedade Independente de Comunicação ( sic ), a टेलीविज़न चैनल in पुर्तगाल
Sea आइल नगर, नई Jersey, a तटीय town in the संयुक्त राज्य
Segmented Integer Counter विधि, a mode of operation in cryptography
sepang अंतरराष्ट्रीय Circuit, a high-end racetrack that hosts the मलेशियाई round of सूत्र 1
Shanghai अंतरराष्ट्रीय Circuit, a मोटर racing स्थान in Shanghai, China
Simplified instructional कंप्यूटर, a hypothetical computer प्रयुक्त in systems प्रोग्रामिंग
sic ( बेटे Idées couleurs ), an जल्दी twentieth-century art magazine उत्पादित by French लेखक पियरे albert-birot
southeastern इलिनोइस College, a दो साल Junior कॉलेज in Harrisburg, Illinois, United States
विशिष्ट आगमनात्मक क्षमता, abbreviated to SIC, which is अधिक commonly ज्ञात as the सापेक्ष permittivity or the dielectric निरंतर
st Ignatius ' College, Riverview, a जेसुइट school in Sydney, Australia
alt=Five मुस्कुराना young लड़कियों in various poses wearing श्वेत smocks over thigh-length पोशाक of similar color to उनके hair.
The टोकियो mew mew manga and anime श्रेणी features a डाल of characters designed by Mia Ikumi.
The series takes प्लेस in Tokyo, जापानी, where five adolescent girls, पुकारा Mew mews, are infused साथ the डीएनए of endangered प्रजाति to combat aliens attempting to लो over the धरती.
the manga series is followed by a short sequel श्रेणी, टोकियो mew Mew a la विधि, which introduces a नई mew Mew and a new threat.
the Mew Mews are led by the main अक्षर, ichigo Momomiya, whose first task is to gather the other four mew mews : मिंट Aizawa, Lettuce Midorikawa, Pudding Fong, and zakuro fujiwara.
as the श्रेणी progresses, ichigo goes इससे having a crush on masaya Aoyama to बनने उसके गर्लफ्रेंड while trying to छुपा her secret double life इससे him.
the श्रेणी antagonists शामिल three aliens, kish, Pie, और तीखा, और उनके नेता, गहन ब्लू.
Originally इससे धरती, the aliens यहूद मजबूर to छोड़ long ago due to deadly पर्यावरणीय परिवर्तन.
They have लौटे to kill the humans, who they महसूस हैं destroying their planet, and reclaim the ग्रह.
in a la विधि, मध्य school student Berry Shirayuki is introduced as the sixth mew mew and, in the अनुपस्थिति of ichigo, the temporary leader of the Mew Mews.
a la Mode also introduces नई नियत of antagonists, the Saint Rose crusaders, a समूह of human teenagers साथ विभिन्न psychic abilities साथ a desire to बनाएँ उनके अपना utopia.
led by ड्यूक, they मेक अनेक attempts to मार Berry, आखिरकार turning the local populace against the mew Mews.
ikumi 's आरंभिक vision for टोकियो Mew Mew थी a स्टोरी पुकारा टोकियो Black Cat Girl कि प्रदर्शित a cat-girl battling एलियन आक्रमणकारियों.
After the story was transitioned to a अधिक upbeat स्टोरी of पाँच female superheroes, the अक्षर designs were redone to have a lighter, more रंगीन महसूस.
The प्रमुख series characters were praised लिये being a पूर्ण fit for the overall story, as well as लिये their cute दिखावे.
The वर्ण introduced in a la विधि were also praised लिये उनके visual appearances, but criticized as होने repeats of the original series.
the अक्षर ड्यूक was भी criticized लिये having a डिज़ाइन reminiscent of the white सर्वोच्चता समूह, the Ku klux Klan.
मध्य triassic सीमांत marine sequence of siltstones ( नीचे ) and limestones ( ऊपर ), वर्जिन गठन, southwestern Utah, यूएसए
Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that हैं formed by the deposition of material at the Earth 's surface और within bodies of जल.
Sedimentation is the सामूहिक नाम लिये प्रक्रियाओं that कारण खनिज and/or organic अणु ( detritus ) to settle and accumulate or खनिज to precipitate इससे a समाधान.
Particles that form a sedimentary चट्टान by accumulating हैं called sediment.
Before being deposited, sediment थी formed by weathering and अपरदन in a source क्षेत्रफल, और then transported to the प्लेस of deposition by जल, wind, ice, द्रव्यमान गति or glaciers जिससे are पुकारा agents of denudation.
The sedimentary चट्टान कवर of the continents of the धरती 's क्रस्ट is extensive, लकिन the कुल contribution of sedimentary rocks is estimated to be only 8 % of the कुल volume of the crust.
sedimentary rocks हैं only a पतला veneer over a क्रस्ट consisting mainly of igneous and metamorphic rocks.
Sedimentary rocks हैं deposited in परतों as strata, forming a ढांचा called bedding.
the study of sedimentary रॉक्स और rock strata provides सूचना परिचय the subsurface कि is useful for civil engineering, लिये उदाहरण in the निर्माण of roads, houses, tunnels, नहरों or अन्य constructions.
sedimentary रॉक्स हैं भी important स्त्रोत of natural संसाधन जैसे कोयले, fossil fuels, drinking water or ores.
The study of the sequence of sedimentary चट्टान strata is the main सोर्स लिये scientific knowledge about the धरती 's इतिहास, including palaeogeography, paleoclimatology and the history of life.
The वैज्ञानिक अनुशासन कि अध्ययन the गुण और origin of sedimentary रॉक्स is पुकारा sedimentology.
Sedimentology is both भाग of geology and physical geography और overlaps partly with अन्य disciplines in the Earth sciences, ऐसे as pedology, geomorphology, geochemistry or संरचनात्मक geology.
350px
इंसानो are born साथ over 270 हड्डियों, some of जिससे fuse together into a longitudinal अक्ष, the axial skeleton, to जिससे the appendicular कंकाल is संलग्न.
संत पैट्रिक ( ; ; आधुनिक ; ; c. 387 – 17 कूच c. 460 or c. 492 ) थी a Romano-British Christian मिशनरी और bishop in आयरलैंड.
ज्ञात as the `` apostle of Ireland '', he is the प्राथमिक patron संत of the द्वीप along साथ संतो brigid and Columba.
दो authentic अक्षर इससे him survive, from जिससे come the तभी generally स्वीकृत details of his life.
जब he was about 16, he थी captured from his home और taken as a स्लेव to Ireland, where he lived for six सालो before escaping and returning to उसके परिवार.
बाद बनने a मौलवी, he returned to northern और western Ireland as an ordained बिशप, but छोटी is known about the स्थान where he worked.
By the सातवाँ सदी, he था already come to be revered as the patron संत of आयरलैंड.
सबसे उपलब्धियाँ details of उसके जीवन हैं इससे subsequent hagiographies, and these are now नहीं स्वीकृत बगैर विस्तृत criticism.
the Annals of ulster राज्य कि he arrived in Ireland in 432, ministered in Ulster around 443, और died in 457 or 461.
The text, however, distinguishes between `` बूढ़ा Patrick '' ( thought to औसत Palladius ) और `` पैट्रिक, archapostle of the स्कॉट्स, '' who died in 492.
The actual तिथियाँ of Patrick 's जीवन can not be फिक्स्ड साथ certainty लकिन, on a widespread निर्वचन, he थी क्रियाशील as a मिशनरी in Ireland दौरान the second हाफ of the 5th century.
he is generally credited with होने the पहला bishop of armagh, primate of सब Ireland.
Saint Patrick 's दिन is observed on कूच 17, the तिथि of उसके death.
it is celebrated दोनो inside and बाहर आयरलैंड, as both a religious and, especially outside आयरलैंड, धर्मनिरपेक्ष अवकाश.
in the dioceses of आयरलैंड, it is both a solemnity and a holy day of दायित्व ; outside आयरलैंड, it can be a celebration of Ireland itself.
Line segments in the सुनहरी ratio
a golden आयताकार साथ longer पक्ष a and shorter side b, जब placed adjacent to a square with पहलू of लंबाई a, होगा produce a समान golden आयताकार with longer side a + b और shorter side a.
इस illustrates the संबंध.
in गणित और the arts, two quantities are in the golden अनुपात if the अनुपात of the sum of the quantities to the larger मात्रा is बराबर to the अनुपात of the larger quantity to the छोटी एक.
The figure on the सही illustrates the geometric relationship.
Expressed algebraically:
जहाँ the यूनानी अक्षर फाई ( ) represents the golden ratio.
इसके value is:
the सुनहरी अनुपात is also पुकारा the golden खण्ड ( Latin : sectio ओरिया ) or golden औसत.
अन्य names शामिल चरम और mean अनुपात, medial खण्ड, divine proportion, divine section ( लैटिन : sectio divina ), सुनहरी proportion, सुनहरी काटें, and golden क्रमांक.
अनेक 20th century artists और architects have proportioned their works to approximate the golden ratio—especially in the form of the सुनहरी आयताकार, in जिससे the ratio of the longer side to the shorter is the सुनहरी ratio—believing this proportion to be aesthetically pleasing ( see Applications and observations below ).
mathematicians चूंकि Euclid have पढ़ाई the गुण of the golden ratio, including its रूप in the dimensions of a regular प्रस्तुतीकरण और in a सुनहरी आयताकार, जिससे can be काटें into a square और a smaller rectangle with the same पहलू ratio.
the golden अनुपात has भी महरूम प्रयुक्त to analyze the proportions of प्राकृतिक objects as खूब as man-made प्रणालियों ऐसे as वित्तीय बाज़ार, in कुछ मामले आधारित on dubious fits to आंकड़ा.
उत्तर Myrtle बीच is a तटीय रिज़ॉर्ट नगर in Horry काउंटी, दक्षिण कैरोलिना, संयुक्त राज्य.
It was निर्मित in 1968 from four मौजूदा municipalities उत्तर of myrtle Beach, and serves as one of the प्राथमिक tourist कस्बों along the ग्रैंड Strand.
the population was 13,752 at the 2010 census.
World युद्ध i ( WWI ) was a global युद्ध केंद्रित in यूरोपीय that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 नवम्बर 1918.
it थी predominantly called the World War or the ग्रेट War from इसके occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of World War II in 1939, and the पहला संसार War or World War i thereafter.
It involved all the संसार 's ग्रेट शक्तियां, जिससे यहूद assembled in दो opposing alliances : the allies ( आधारित on the ट्रिपल Entente of the United किंगडम, फ़्रांस and Russia ) और the सेंट्रल Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, austria-hungary और इटली ; but, as austria–hungary had taken the offensive विरूद्ध the agreement, Italy किया नहीं डालें into the युद्ध ).
ये alliances were both reorganised and विस्तारित as more nations डाला the war : इटली, जापानी और the United राज्य joined the Allies, और the उस्मानी साम्राज्य and बुल्गारिया the सेंट्रल Powers.
ultimately, अधिक than 70 लाख सैन्य personnel, including 60 million Europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest wars in इतिहास.
अधिक than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements कि led to enormous increases in the lethality of हथियार without सम्बन्धित सुधार in सुरक्षा or गतिशीलता.
It was the fifth- deadliest विरोध in संसार history, subsequently paving the रास्ता for विभिन्न राजनैतिक changes, ऐसे as revolutions in अनेक of the राष्ट्र शामिल.
One of the long-term कल्याणकारी of the war was the resurgence of साम्राज्यवाद in the foreign नीतियों of the great powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a diplomatic crisis जब Austria-Hungary subsequently वितरित an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the previous decades यहूद invoked.
Within weeks, the प्रमुख powers यहूद at युद्ध and, via उनके colonies, the conflict soon स्प्रेड around the world.
on 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the पहला गोलियाँ of the war as तैयारी लिये the invasion of सर्बिया.
जबकि the Russians mobilised, the germans invaded neutral बेल्जियम और Luxembourg on the way to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's घोषणा of war against जर्मनी.
After the जर्मनी कूच on पेरिस थी brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the marne —the Western सामने settled into a स्थिर बैटल of attrition with a trench line कि changed छोटी until 1917.
on the Eastern Front, the रूसी army थी successful against the austro-hungarians, लकिन was stopped in its आक्रमण of East prussia by the germans.
In November the Ottoman साम्राज्य joined the युद्ध, opening up fronts in the Caucasus, मेसोपोटामिया और the Sinai.
इटली and Bulgaria went to युद्ध in 1915 and रोमानिया in 1916.
in Russia, the tsar 's सरकारी collapsed in March 1917 और a subsequent revolution in November brought the russians to terms साथ the सेंट्रल शक्तियां.
बाद a 1918 जर्मनी अप्रिय along the western सामने, the allies drove वापस the germans in a series of successful offensives and American शक्तियां began entering the trenches.
Germany, which था इसके अपना trouble with revolutionaries, सहमत to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
the war ended in victory for the Allies.
कार्यक्रम on the घर fronts were as उग्र as on the बैटल fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize उनके manpower और आर्थिक संसाधन to लड़ो a कुल युद्ध.
By the समाप्त of the युद्ध, four प्रमुख इम्पीरियल powers—the जर्मनी, Russian, austro-hungarian और उस्मानी empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the पूर्व two खोया a ग्रेट amount of territory, while the latter दो were dismantled entirely.
the map of सेंट्रल यूरोपीय was redrawn into अनेक छोटी राज्य.
the लीग of Nations थी formed in the आशा of preventing another ऐसे conflict.
The यूरोपीय nationalism शाखित by the युद्ध and the ब्रेकअप of empires, the परखना of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of versailles हैं agreed to be factors contributing to संसार युद्ध II.
Camden is a नगर in camden County, New जर्सी, संयुक्त States.
It is the काउंटी सीट, स्तिथ आरपार the डेलावेयर River इससे Philadelphia.
As of the 2010 United States जनसांख्यिकी the नगर था a total जनसांख्यिकी of 77,344, representing a मनाही of 2,560 ( 3.2 % ) from the 79,904 निवासियों enumerated दौरान the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी, जिससे had in turn declined by 7,588 ( 8.7 % ) इससे the 87,492 counted in the 1990 जनसांख्यिकी.
Camden क्रमित as the 12th-most populous municipality in the state in 2010 बाद having been ranked 10th in 2000.
Camden was originally incorporated as a नगर on February 13, 1828, इससे portions of the now-defunct Newton Township, जबकि the क्षेत्रफल was स्टिल भाग of Gloucester काउंटी.
On कूच 13, 1844, camden became part of the newly formed Camden County.
Although एकबार a thriving center लिये manufacturing and उद्योग, Camden is शायद बेहतरीन known for its struggles साथ urban dysfunction.
तीन camden mayors have been jailed for भ्रष्टाचार, the सबसे हाल होने Milton Milan in 2000.
चूंकि 2005 the स्कूल system and police विभाग have been संचालित by the राज्य of नई जर्सी ; the कब्ज़ा expired in 2012.
in 2008, Camden था the उच्चतम अपराधों रेट in the U.S. साथ 2,333 violent crimes per 100,000 लोगों जबकि the national average थी 455 per 100,000.
Camden public स्कूलों खर्च $ 23,770 per छात्र ( $ 19,118 on a budgetary per-pupil basis ) in the 2009–10 school साल and two-thirds of the students ग्रैजुएट.
दो आउट of every पाँच निवासियों हैं नीचे the नेशनल गरीबी लकीर.
amitriptyline ( Tryptomer, Elavil, tryptizol, laroxyl, saroten, Sarotex, Lentizol, endep ) is a tricyclic antidepressant ( TCA ).
it is the सबसे widely used TCA और रै at least equal efficacy विरूद्ध depression as the नए क्लास of ssris according to a पढ़ाई इससे जल्दी 2001.
as well as reducing depressive symptoms, these प्रकार of tricyclics also ease migraines, tension headaches, anxiety attacks और कुछ schizophrenic लक्षण.
It is भी ज्ञात to reduce आक्रामकता and हिंसक बर्ताव.
A कंप्यूटर is a general purpose device that can be programmed to carry आउट a परिमित नियत of arithmetic or लॉजिकल परिचालन.
चूंकि a sequence of परिचालन can be readily बदला, the computer can solve अधिक than one दयालु of problem.
Conventionally, a कंप्यूटर consists of at तनिक एक processing element, typically a सेंट्रल प्रसंस्करण unit ( cpu ) और कुछ form of मेमोरी.
the processing तत्व carries आउट arithmetic and लॉजिक परिचालन, and a sequencing and control ईकाई that can change the order of operations आधारित on भंडारित सूचना.
परिधीय devices allow सूचना to be retrieved इससे an external सोर्स, and the result of operations saved और retrieved.
the पहला electronic डिजिटल कंप्यूटर were developed between 1940 और 1945 in the United Kingdom और United राज्य.
originally they यहूद the size of a large रूम, consuming as much power as अनेक सौ modern निजी कंप्यूटर ( pcs ).
in इस era mechanical एनालॉग computers were used for सैन्य अनुप्रयोग.
आधुनिक कंप्यूटर आधारित on integrated circuits are millions to billions of times more सक्षम than the जल्दी machines, और occupy a भिन्न of the स्पेस.
Simple कंप्यूटर हैं small enough to fit into mobile devices, और mobile कंप्यूटर can be संचालित by small batteries.
Personal computers in their विभिन्न forms are प्रतीक of the Information Age और हैं what सबसे people think of as “computers.”
however, the अंतःस्थापित computers found in many डिवाइस इससे mp3 players to सेनानी वायुयान and इससे toys to industrial robots हैं the सबसे numerous.
`` Barefoot और गर्भवती '' is a phrase most commonly संबद्ध with the विवादास्पद idea that women चाहिए not work outside the घर और चाहिए have many children दौरान उनके reproductive सालो.
It has several other meanings as well.
It is a फिगर of speech.
The phrase `` barefoot और pregnant '' थी probably पहला प्रयुक्त sometime before 1950.
an article from 1949 राज्य, `` By जल्दी 1949, twa was—in the शब्द of its new president, Ralph S. Damon—both 'barefoot और pregnant. ' ''
Its usage may तिथि as जल्दी as the 1910s.
an article प्रकाशित in 1958 states the phrase was first प्रयुक्त by a `` Dr. hertzler '' 40 years पहले.
`` कुछ forty सालो ago, dr. Hertzler advanced a hypothesis जिससे young महिलाओं of आज seem bent on proving correct. '
The only way to keep a स्त्री प्रसन्न, ' he कहा, 'is to keep her barefoot और pregnant. ' ''
oakhurst is a census-designated place और unincorporated जातियाँ within समंदर Township, in मॉनमाउथ County, New Jersey, संयुक्त States.
As of the 2010 संयुक्त राज्य Census, the cdp 's population थी 3,995.
University of Phoenix Stadium, opened अगस्त 1, 2006, is a multipurpose फ़ुटबॉल stadium स्तिथ in ग्लेनडेल, एरिज़ोना.
It is the घर of the Arizona कार्डिनल्स of the National फ़ुटबॉल League ( एनएफएल ) and the annual Fiesta कटोरी.
The स्टेडियम is स्तिथ next door to the jobing.com एरिना और it features the first fully retractable natural grass playing surface निर्मित in the संयुक्त राज्य on top of an AirField Systems drainage प्रणाली.
An opening on एक side of the stadium allows the playing फ़ील्ड to मूव to the exterior of the building, allowing the संपूर्ण natural turf playing surface to be exposed to daylight.
The stadium रै hosted सुपर कटोरी XLII, and the 2011 BCS National Championship Game, a game that it hosts प्रत्येक चार सालो, which set the स्थान 's entertainment attendance record of 78,603 on जनवरी 11, 2011.
It will again मेजबान सुपर Bowl XLIX in 2015.
The University of Phoenix acquired the naming अधिकारों in September 2006, shortly after the stadium था opened under the name Cardinals स्टेडियम.
The `` University of Phoenix `` नाम is applied as a corporate sponsor, and not as the home stadium of the University ( which has no intercollegiate athletics कार्यक्रम ).
The stadium रै भी hosted the डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई event WrestleMania xxvi साथ 72,219 प्रशंसक in उपस्थिति.
The इवेंट थी आयोजित in the stadium on March 28th 2010.
जोशुआ Lawrence Chamberlain ( सितंबर 8, 1828 – February 24, 1914 ), born as लॉरेंस Joshua Chamberlain, थी an अमरीकी कॉलेज प्राध्यापक from the State of maine, जो volunteered during the अमरीकी Civil युद्ध to जुड़ें the संघ फौज.
हालांकि having no पहले शिक्षा in सैन्य रणनीति, he became a अत्यधिक आदरणीय and decorated संघ अधिकारी, reaching the rank of ब्रिगेडियर general ( and brevet प्रमुख सामान्य ).
लिये उसके gallantry at Gettysburg, he was awarded the पदक of Honor.
He was दिए the honor of commanding the संघ troops at the आत्मसमर्पण रस्म लिये the infantry of Robert E. ली 's Army at appomattox, Virginia.
After the war, he डाला politics as a रिपब्लिकन and served चार one-year शर्तें of office as the 32nd Governor of Maine.
he served on the faculty, and as अध्यक्ष, of उसके अल्मा mater, bowdoin कॉलेज.
An inning, or पारी, is a fixed-length खण्ड of a खेल in any of a variety of sports – most notably क्रिकेट और बेसबॉल during जिससे एक team attempts to score while the other टोली कोशिशें to prevent the पहला इससे scoring.
in क्रिकेट, the पद innings is both singular और plural और is सदा spelled and pronounced साथ the टर्मिनल `` s ''.
In बेसबॉल और सॉफ्टबॉल, the एकवचन रूप is inning और तभी the plural takes an `` s ''.
in many other sports, the लंबाई of the game is dictated by a क्लॉक and teams स्वैप अप्रिय और defensive भूमिकाएँ dynamically by लेने कब्ज़ा of a ball or similar मद.
in baseball and cricket, however, one टोली, said to be `` batting '', कोशिशें to score `` runs '' —see चलाएं ( बेसबॉल ) और run ( cricket ) —while the other team, said to be `` क्षेत्ररक्षण '', attempts to prevent the scoring of रनों and मिलेंगी सदस्यों of the batting team आउट.
the teams switch स्थान after the क्षेत्ररक्षण team has succeeded in getting a फिक्स्ड number of खिलाड़ी आउट, बनाना a क्लॉक unnecessary.
In cricket, the पद पारी is also used to refer to the खेल of one particular खिलाड़ी ( Smith had a poor innings, scoring only 12 ).
By एक्सटेंशन, this पद can be used in अंग्रेजों English for almost कोई activity which takes a काल of time ( the Liberal सरकारी had a शुभ पारी, लकिन finally lost दफ्तर in 1972, or तुम 've had a fair innings, now it 's my फेरे, meaning `` you have spoken for long enough, now let me speak '' ).
It is also used in reference to someone जो रै died at a reasonably बूढ़ा आयु or lived a समृद्ध और rewarding जीवन ( Ah, खूब.
जॉन was 89.
At least he had a good innings ).
The baseball-derived समानांतर to this in अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी is the term at चमगादड़.
according to the ऑक्सफोर्ड अंग्रेज़ी Dictionary, the term innings has been used in reference to cricket since at least 1735.
As cricket थी a mature, highly व्यवस्थित sport in the 1600s in इंग्लैण्ड, the term 's उत्पत्ति could well precede this first अंकित usage.
the word inning अर्थ 'a महफ़िल in ' is पहला अंकित in 1522, और could be related.
Adenosine deaminase कमियां, भी called ADA कमियां or ADA-SCID, is an autosomal recessive metabolic विकार that causes immunodeficiency.
It occurs in कम than one in 100,000 सजीव births worldwide.
it खाते लिये परिचय 15 % of सब मामले of severe combined immunodeficiency ( scid ).
It is very विरल, you have a 3 % मौका of getting this जीन.
ADA कमियां may be present in शैशव, बाल्यकाल, adolescense, or adulthood.
Age of onset और गंभीरता is related to कुछ 29 known genotypes associated with the विकार.
an उदाहरण of urban गरीबी in इस slum in Jakarta, इंडोनेशिया
गरीबी is the राज्य of एक who lacks a निश्चित राशि of सामग्री possessions or money.
निरपेक्ष गरीबी or destitution refers to the deprivation of basic इंसान needs, जिससे commonly शामिल खाना, जल, sanitation, कपडे, आश्रय, health care और शिक्षा.
Relative poverty is पारिभाषित contextually as economic inequality in the location or society in which people live.
For much of history, गरीबी was माना largely unavoidable as traditional मोड्स of production यहूद insufficient to give an entire जनसांख्यिकी a आरामदायक मानक of living.
After the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति, mass उत्पादन in factories बना माल increasingly अधिक inexpensive और accessible.
Of अधिक महत्व is the modernization of कृषि, such as fertilizers, in order to provide enough उपज to फीड the population.
the supply of मौलिक needs can be restricted by constraints on सरकारी सेवाएं ऐसे as corruption, tax avoidance, कर्ज़ and ऋण conditionalities and by the brain नाली of स्वास्थ्य परवाह और शैक्षणिक पेशेवर.
रणनीति of increasing आय to make मौलिक needs more affordable typically शामिल welfare, आर्थिक freedoms, और providing वित्तीय services.
गरीबी reduction is a major लक्ष्य and issue for many अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन ऐसे as the संयुक्त राष्ट्र and the संसार बैंको.
the संसार Bank estimated 1.29 अरब लोगों were जीना in absolute poverty in 2008.
Of these, about 400 लाख people in absolute गरीबी lived in India and 173 लाख लोगों in China.
In USA 1 in 5 children जीवनदान in गरीबी.
In शर्तें of प्रतिशत of क्षेत्रीय populations, sub-saharan Africa at 47 % था the उच्चतम incidence rate of absolute गरीबी in 2008.
between 1990 और 2010, about 663 million लोगों स्थानांतरित above the निरपेक्ष poverty स्तर.
स्टिल, extreme poverty is a global चुनौती ; it is observed in सब parts of the संसार, सहित the developed economies.
Mushroom poisoning ( also known as mycetism ) refers to नुकसानदेह effects from ingestion of toxic substances उपस्थित in a मशरूम.
ये symptoms can vary from slight जठरांत्र तकलीफ to death.
The toxins present हैं secondary metabolites उत्पादित in specific biochemical pathways in the fungal cells.
मशरूम poisoning is प्रायः the परिणाम of ingestion of जंगली mushrooms बाद misidentification of a toxic mushroom as an खाद्य species.
the most common कारण for this misidentification is बंद resemblance in शर्तें of रंग and general morphology of the toxic मशरूम प्रजाति साथ खाद्य प्रजाति.
भी बहुत experienced wild मशरूम gatherers हैं upon rare अवसर poisoned by खाने विषाक्त species, despite होने well जागरूक of the risks, through carelessness.
to prevent मशरूम poisoning, mushroom gatherers need to be बहुत familiar साथ the mushrooms they intend to collect as खूब as with कोई similar-looking toxic प्रजाति.
In addition, edibility of mushrooms may निर्भर on विधि of तैयारी लिये cooking.
Collectors also need to be खूब जागरूक that edibility or toxicity of कुछ प्रजाति varies साथ geographic स्थान.
इंसान height is the अलहदा इससे the bottom of the feet to the top of the सिर in a human देह, खड़ा वीर्यपात.
When populations share जेनेटिक पृष्ठभूमि और पर्यावरणीय factors, औसत height is frequently characteristic भीतर the समूह.
Exceptional height variation ( around 20 % deviation from औसत ) भीतर ऐसे a जनसांख्यिकी is sometimes due to gigantism or dwarfism, which हैं चिकित्सा conditions caused by विशिष्ट जीनों or अंतःस्रावी abnormalities.
in regions of extreme गरीबी or prolonged warfare, पर्यावरणीय factors जैसे chronic कुपोषण दौरान बाल्यकाल or किशोरावस्था may account लिये delayed विकास and/or ( in कठोर cases ) चिह्नित reductions in adult stature भी बगैर the उपस्थिति of कोई of ये चिकित्सा शर्तें.
Apollo 11 थी the spaceflight कि landed the पहला humans, अमेरिकी Neil आर्मस्ट्रांग और Buzz Aldrin, on the चंद्रमा on जुलाई 20, 1969, at 20:18 UTC.
आर्मस्ट्रांग became the पहला to कदम onto the lunar surface 6 hours बाद on जुलाई 21 at 02:56 utc.
आर्मस्ट्रांग spent about दो और a half hours outside the spacecraft, Aldrin थोड़ा less ; और together वे एकत्रित of चंद्र सामग्री for वापसी to धरती.
A तीसरा सदस्य of the mission, Michael Collins, piloted the कमांड spacecraft अलोन in चंद्र orbit जबतक Armstrong और एल्ड्रिन returned to it बस अंतर्गत a दिन later for the ट्रिप back to धरती.
शुभारम्भ by a Saturn V rocket from Kennedy स्पेस बीच in merritt Island, फ्लोरिडा on जुलाई 16, Apollo 11 थी the पांचवां manned mission of NASA 's अपोलो program.
The अपोलो spacecraft था तीन भाग : a कमांड मोड्यूल साथ a केबिन लिये the तीन astronauts which थी the only part which landed back on Earth ; a सेवा Module which समर्थित the कमांड मोड्यूल with नोदन, विद्युत शक्ति, oxygen and जल ; और a चंद्र मोड्यूल लिये landing on the चंद्रमा.
After being sent to the चंद्रमा by the Saturn V 's अपर स्टेज, the astronauts separated the spacecraft from it और travelled लिये तीन दिनों जबतक वे entered into चंद्र orbit.
आर्मस्ट्रांग और Aldrin तब स्थानांतरित into the चंद्र Module and उतरा in the Sea of Tranquility.
वे ठहरे a total of परिचय 21 and a half घंटों on the चंद्र surface.
बाद lifting बंद in the अपर भाग of the चंद्र Module and rejoining Collins in the कमांड मोड्यूल, वे returned to Earth and landed in the प्रशांत समंदर on जुलाई 24.
ब्रॉडकास्ट on सजीव TV to a world-wide audience, आर्मस्ट्रांग stepped onto the चंद्र surface और described the इवेंट as `` एक छोटी कदम for [ a ] man, एक giant छलांग for mankind. ''
Apollo 11 effectively ended the स्पेस रेस और fulfilled a national goal प्रस्तावित in 1961 by the लेट U.S. अध्यक्ष जॉन F. कैनेडी in a speech before the संयुक्त States Congress, `` before this दशक is आउट, of लैंडिंग a man on the Moon and returning him safely to the धरती. ''
the FIFA World कप, often simply the संसार Cup, is an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ फ़ुटबॉल competition contested by the वरिष्ठ men 's नेशनल टीमों of the सदस्यों of Fédération Internationale de फ़ुटबॉल Association ( फीफा ), the खेल 's वैश्विक शासी देह.
The championship has been awarded every चार सालो चूंकि the inaugural tournament in 1930, मगर in 1942 and 1946 जब it थी not आयोजित क्युकी of the दूसरी World युद्ध.
the current champions are स्पेन, who won the 2010 टूर्नामेंट.
the current स्वरूप of the tournament involves 32 teams स्पर्धा for the title at venues भीतर the host स्वदेश ( s ) over a काल of about a माह ; this phase is often पुकारा the संसार कप Finals.
A योग्यता phase, which फिलहाल takes प्लेस over the preceding three years, is used to determine जिससे टीमों qualify for the tournament together with the host स्वदेश ( s ).
the 19 World Cup tournaments have महरूम won by eight अलग नेशनल teams.
ब्राज़ील have जीती five times, and they हैं the तभी team to have निभाई in प्रत्येक टूर्नामेंट.
the अन्य संसार Cup winners हैं Italy, साथ four शीर्षक ; जर्मनी, with तीन शीर्षक ; अर्जेंटीना और inaugural winners Uruguay, साथ two titles प्रत्येक ; and इंग्लैण्ड, फ़्रांस, and स्पेन, with one title प्रत्येक.
the संसार कप is the संसार 's सबसे widely viewed sporting इवेंट ; an estimated 715.1 लाख people देखी the final मैच of the 2006 FIFA World कप आयोजित in Germany.
the अगला तीन संसार Cups होगा be hosted by ब्राज़ील in 2014, Russia in 2018, and क़तर in 2022.
Genocide is a पद coined in 1944 by राफेल lemkin to describe the deliberate और व्यवस्थित destruction, in whole or in भाग, of an ethnic, जातिगत, religious, or national group.
it is पारिभाषित in आलेख 2 of the सम्मेलन on the रोकथाम and दंड of the Crime of नरसंहार ( CPPCG ) of 1948 as `` any of the following अधिनियमों committed with intent to destroy, in पूरे or in भाग, a नेशनल, ethnical, racial or religious group, as ऐसे : killing members of the समूह ; causing serious bodily or दिमागी harm to members of the group ; deliberately inflicting on the groups शर्तें of life, calculated to लाओ परिचय its physical विनाश in whole or in भाग ; imposing उपायों intended to prevent births within the समूह ; [ and ] forcibly transferring children of the समूह to another समूह. ''
Skulls of victims of the rwandan नरसंहार
The प्रस्तावना to the cppcg not तभी राज्य कि `` नरसंहार is a crime अंतर्गत international विधि, contrary to the spirit और aims of the United राष्ट्र and condemned by the civilized संसार '', लकिन also कि `` at all periods of इतिहास genocide रै inflicted ग्रेट losses on मानवता ''.
determining what ऐतिहासिक events constitute a नरसंहार and which हैं merely दण्ड or inhuman बर्ताव is नहीं a clear-cut पदार्थ.
In nearly every case where accusations of नरसंहार have परिचालित, partisans of विभिन्न पहलू have fiercely विवादित the निर्वचन और details of the इवेंट, प्रायः to the point of promoting wildly अलग versions of the तथ्य.
An accusation of नरसंहार is certainly नहीं लिया हलके और will लगभग always be controversial.
the following list of genocides and alleged genocides चाहिए be understood in इस कॉन्टेक्स्ट और can नहीं be regarded as the final शब्द on ये subjects.
A समय belt is a non-slipping mechanical ड्राइव बेल्ट और the term may refer to either:
toothed बेल्ट, a लचीली बेल्ट साथ दांत moulded onto इसके भीतरी सतह
समय belt ( camshaft ), a toothed बेल्ट used to drive the camshaft ( s ) within an internal दहन engine
The संस्कृति of the संयुक्त States is primarily a Western संस्कृति, लकिन is also बहकावे by Native American, अफ़्रीकी, एशियाई, Polynesian, and Latin American cultures.
अमरीकी संस्कृति प्रारंभ इसके गठन over 10,000 years ago with the migration of paleo-indians इससे Asia into the region कि is आज the continental संयुक्त राज्य.
It has इसके अपना अद्वितीय सोशल और cultural विशेषताएँ such as dialect, म्यूज़िक, कला, social habits, भोजन, और folklore.
the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका is an ethnically and racially diverse देश as a परिणाम of large-scale immigration from अनेक अलग countries throughout its इतिहास.
Its मुख्य early यूरोपीय प्रभाव came इससे English, स्कॉटिश, Welsh and आयरिश settlers of औपनिवेशिक America दौरान अंग्रेजों rule.
British संस्कृति, due to औपनिवेशिक ties with Britain कि spread the English language, legal system और अन्य cultural inheritances, था a formative influence.
अन्य important प्रभाव came इससे अन्य भाग of पश्चिमी Europe, विशेषकर जर्मनी, फ़्रांस, और Italy.
असली elements भी खेल a दमदार role, such as the आविष्कार of Jeffersonian democracy.
Thomas जेफरसन 's टीप on the राज्य of Virginia was शायद the first influential domestic सांस्कृतिक critique by an American और a reactionary टुकड़ा to the prevailing यूरोपीय consensus कि अमेरिका 's domestic मौलिकता थी degenerate.
प्रचलित विचार और आदर्शों कि विकसित domestically, such as national holidays, uniquely अमरीकी खेल, military परंपरा, और नवप्रवर्तनों in the कला और entertainment दे a strong भाव of national pride among the जनसांख्यिकी as a पूरे.
American संस्कृति शामिल both रूढ़िवादी and उदार तत्व, scientific and धार्मिक competitiveness, राजनैतिक structures, रिस्क लेने and free expression, materialist and moral elements.
despite certain सतत ideological सिद्धान्त ( e.g. व्यक्तिगत, समतावाद, and आस्था in freedom और लोकतंत्र ), अमरीकी संस्कृति has a किस्में of expressions due to इसके भौगोलिक scale और demographic विविधता.
the लचीलापन of U.S. culture and its highly सांकेतिक nature lead कुछ शोधकर्ताओं to categorize American culture as a mythic identity ; अन्य see it as अमरीकी exceptionalism.
It also शामिल तत्व that विकसित from स्वदेशी Americans, और other जातीय cultures—most prominently the संस्कृति of अफ़्रीकी Americans, संस्कृतियों इससे Latin अमेरिका, और Asian अमरीकी संस्कृतियों.
अनेक अमरीकी सांस्कृतिक तत्व, especially इससे popular संस्कृति, have स्प्रेड आरपार the globe through आधुनिक द्रव्यमान media.
the संयुक्त States has प्रायः महरूम विचार of as a melting घट, but beginning in the late 1990s and early 2000s, it रुझान towards cultural विविधता, बहुलवाद और the चित्र of a सलाद कटोरी बजाय.
due to the extent of American संस्कृति, there हैं अनेक integrated but unique social subcultures भीतर the संयुक्त States.
the सांस्कृतिक affiliations an individual in the संयुक्त States may have commonly depend on social क्लास, political orientation and a multitude of जनसांख्यिकी विशेषताएँ such as religious पृष्ठभूमि, occupation और जातीय group membership.
samoan ( Gagana fa'a Sāmoa or Gagana Sāmoa — IPA : ) is the भाषा of the samoan आइलैंड्स, comprising the स्वतंत्र country of समोआ and the United States territory of American समोआ.
it is an official language—alongside English —in दोनो jurisdictions.
Samoan, a Polynesian language, is the पहला भाषा लिये most of the Samoa Islands ' population of about 246,000.
साथ अनेक Samoan लोगों living in other countries, the कुल number of speakers worldwide is estimated at 370,000.
the language is notable for the phonological मतभेद between औपचारिक और अनौपचारिक speech as well as a ceremonial रूप used in Samoan oratory.
A ग्लूकोज सहिष्णुता test is a चिकित्सा परीक्षण in which glucose is given और blood samples लिया afterward to determine how जल्दी it is cleared इससे the रक्त.
the test is usually used to test लिये मधुमेह, इंसुलिन प्रतिरोध, और sometimes reactive hypoglycemia और acromegaly, or rarer disorders of शर्करा metabolism.
In the most commonly performed version of the test, an oral glucose सहिष्णुता परीक्षण ( ogtt ), a standard खुराक of ग्लूकोज is ingested by मुँह और blood स्तर हैं checked two घंटों later.
Many variations of the GTT have been devised over the years for various उद्देश्य, with different मानक doses of ग्लूकोज, अलग रूट of administration, different intervals and durations of sampling, और विभिन्न substances measured in जोड to रक्त ग्लूकोज.
`` कया परिचय Me '' is a song written by Garry तुषार and Frances swan, पहला अंकित by Australian rock band चलती तस्वीरें from their एल्बम दिनों of innocence.
It थी the band 's first number-one सिंगल in ऑस्ट्रेलिया बिता six consecutive सप्ताह on the top ; there, it was the second-highest selling सिंगल of 1982.
the कामयाबी of the सोंग led उन्हें to America जहाँ it became a hit, reaching # 29 on the U.S. बिलबोर्ड hot 100 चार्ट.
the सोंग stayed in the u.S. charts for such a long समय that it managed to make billboards top 100 Pop Singles of 1983, at # 88, a rare feat लिये a single साथ ऐसे a low शिखर स्थिति.
the song made an असामान्य वापसी in 1989, peaking at # 46.
on the बाएँ a chicken egg, the अंडा सबसे commonly eaten by humans, and on the right two quail अंडे
Eggs are रखी by महिलाओं of many different species, सहित पक्षियों, reptiles, amphibians, और fish, and have महरूम खाया by mankind लिये हज़ारों of years.
Bird और reptile eggs consist of a सुरक्षात्मक eggshell, albumen ( egg श्वेत ), and vitellus ( अंडा yolk ), contained within विभिन्न thin झिल्लियों.
लोकप्रिय चुनाव लिये egg खपत are chicken, duck, बटेर, roe, and caviar, but the egg most प्रायः consumed by humans is the मुर्गा egg, by a wide margin.
Egg yolks और whole अंडे store significant amounts of प्रोटीन और choline, और हैं widely प्रयुक्त in cookery.
due to their प्रोटीन सामग्री, the संयुक्त States विभाग of Agriculture ( यूएसडीए ) categorizes अंडे as meats within the खाना मार्गदर्शिका पिरामिड.
despite the nutritional value of अंडे, there are some संभावित health issues arising इससे egg quality, storage, and व्यक्तिगत allergies.
मुर्गियों और अन्य egg-laying creatures are widely रखा throughout the संसार, और द्रव्यमान production of chicken eggs is a global industry.
in 2009, an अनुमानित 62.1 million मीट्रिक टन of eggs यहूद produced विश्वव्यापी from a कुल laying झुण्ड of approximately 6.4 billion मुर्गियां.
There हैं मुद्दे of क्षेत्रीय variation in demand and अपेक्षा, as well as current debates concerning विधि of mass उत्पादन, with the यूरोपीय संघ 's ban on battery farming of मुर्गियों.
प्रमुख लीग सॉकर ( mls ) is a पेशेवर soccer लीग representing the sport 's highest स्तर in the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा.
Sanctioned by the United States सॉकर Federation ( u.S. सॉकर ), the league is composed of 19 टीमों — 16 in the U.S. और 3 in Canada.
सीज़न presently run इससे कूच to December, with प्रत्येक टोली playing 34 खेल in the regular ऋतु.
Ten teams compete in the postseason mls कप Playoffs culminating in the championship game, the MLS Cup.
प्रमुख League Soccer थी संस्थापित in 1993 as भाग of the संयुक्त राज्य ' बोली to मेजबान the 1994 FIFA संसार Cup.
the पहला ऋतु took place in 1996 beginning साथ ten टीमों.
Instead of ऑपरेटिंग as an association of independently स्वामित्व teams, MLS is a single entity where प्रत्येक team is स्वामित्व and नियंत्रित by the लीग 's investors.
the league 's closed membership makes it one of the संसार 's few सॉकर लीग not using promotion और relegation.
The वैधता of कैनबिस varies from country to देश.
कब्ज़ा of कैनबिस is illegal in most देशों and has महरूम since the beginning of फैली cannabis निषेध in the late 1930s.
however, अनेक countries have decriminalized the कब्ज़ा of छोटी quantities of cannabis, particularly in उत्तर America, South America and यूरोपीय.
Furthermore, possession is legal or effectively विधिक in the Netherlands, उत्तर कोरियाई और होता be in the u.S. राज्य of कोलोराडो और वॉशिंगटन if it were नहीं लिये federal विधि, जिससे governs persons in सब राज्य.
The medicinal use of कैनबिस is legal in a number of countries, including कनाडा, the Czech Republic and Israel.
While संघीय विधि in the संयुक्त States bans all बिक्री और possession of कैनबिस, enforcement varies widely at the राज्य स्तर और कुछ राज्य have स्थापित medicinal मारिजुआना कार्यक्रम in that contradict संघीय law ; two states ( Colorado और Washington ) have repealed उनके laws prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis and replaced them साथ a regulatory शासन, भी contrary to संघीय statute.
Some countries have कानून कि हैं not as vigorously prosecuted as others लकिन, अलावा from the देशों that प्रस्ताव access to चिकित्सा मारिजुआना, most countries have विभिन्न दंड ranging from lenient to बहुत कठोर.
Some infractions are लिया अधिक seriously in some देशों than others in लिहाज़ to the cultivation, use, कब्ज़ा or ट्रांसफ़र of cannabis for recreational use.
A few jurisdictions have lessened दंड लिये possession of छोटी quantities of कैनबिस, making it दंडनीय by confiscation और a ठीक, बल्कि than imprisonment.
कुछ jurisdictions/ drug न्यायालयों use अनिवार्य उपचार कार्यक्रम for young or frequent users, with स्वतंत्रता इससे narcotic दवाएँ as the लक्ष्य और a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use लिये औषधीय purposes.
There हैं भी changes in a अधिक प्रतिबंधक दिशा as in कनाडा.
Drug परीक्षण to detect cannabis are increasingly common in many देशों and have resulted in jail वाक्य और लोगों खोने their कार्य.
however, simple possession can carry long jail sentences in some countries, विशेषकर in भाग of East एशिया and southeast एशिया where the बिक्री of cannabis may सीसे to a वाक्य of जीवन in prison or भी execution.
In cardiovascular physiology, ejection fraction ( ef ) represents the volumetric भिन्न of blood उत्तेजित out of the ventricle ( दिल ) साथ each दिल ताल or हृदय cycle.
it can be लागू to either the सही ventricle जिससे ejects via the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary परिसंचरण or the बाएँ ventricle which ejects via the aortic valve into the systemic circulation.
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian heart is the art that allows सार्थक mathematical अभिव्यक्ति defining ef.
noninvasive cardiac imaging रै become a worldwide utility enabling पढ़ाई of हृदय performance reproducibly और inexpensively.
Simplified, Ejection fraction is a गणितीय product अनुमत by हृदय इमेजिंग.
As a mathematical पद, ejection Fraction is an extension of the कार्य of एडाल्फ फिक in हृदय output.
Dedicated technology ऐसे as Echocardiography, Computed Tomography, Magnetic अनुनाद इमेजिंग and MUGA scanning have definitively अनुमत clinically relevant गणित regarding Ischemia, जन्मजात Heart Disease and दिल Failure.
State Route 14 ( SR 14 ) is a north–south state राजमार्ग in the u.S. राज्य of California, largely in the Mojave Desert.
the दक्षिणी portion of the highway is हस्ताक्षरित as the antelope Valley Freeway.
the रूट connects Interstate 5, or Golden State Freeway, near Santa Clarita और with u.S. रूट 395 near Inyokern.
Legislatively, the रूट extends south of i-5 to राज्य Route 1 in the प्रशांत Palisades area of लॉस Angeles, however the portion south of the जंक्शन साथ I-5 रै not been constructed.
The southern part of the constructed रूट is a busy commuter freeway serving and connecting the समुदायों of Santa Clarita, Palmdale और Lancaster with the rest of the वृहद लॉस Angeles area.
The उत्तरी portion, इससे विंसेंट ( दक्षिण of Palmdale ) to रूट 395, is legislatively नामित the aerospace राजमार्ग, as the highway serves एडवर्ड्स एयर फ़ोर्स Base, एकबार एक of the primary लैंडिंग strips for NASA 's स्पेस शटल.
This section is rural, following the line between the hot Mojave desert and the forming Sierra Nevada पहाड़ दायरा.
Most of Route 14 is loosely paralleled by a main लकीर of the Southern प्रशांत Railroad, प्रयुक्त लिये the Antelope Valley लकीर of the Metrolink commuter रेल system as well as a कनेक्शन between लॉस Angeles और the California Central घाटी via tehachapi pass.
linked साथ us 395, इस सड़क connects लॉस Angeles with such स्थान as Mammoth पहाड़, Mono झील, Yosemite National पार्क और Reno, नेवाडा.
Route 14 थी भाग of u.S. Route 6 prior to truncation in 1964, जब u.S. 6 was a coast-to-coast रूट इससे long बीच to provincetown, Massachusetts.
The non-freeway segment of sr 14 इससे Silver महारानी Road north of Rosamond to Mojave is known as Sierra Highway, as is the old routing between अंतरराज्यीय 5 और चांदी महारानी Road where sr 14 has been moved to a नए freeway alignment.
portions of रूट 14 remain signed with names संबद्ध with US 6, including मिडलैंड Trail, थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट Highway और ग्रैंड Army of the गणतंत्र Highway.
इस route is part of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया फ्रीवे and एक्सप्रेसवे प्रणाली.
दृष्टिहीनता is the कंडीशन of lacking विज़ुअल perception due to physiological or neurological कारकों.
विभिन्न तराजू have been विकसित to describe the extent of vision घाटा और define दृष्टिहीनता.
कुल blindness is the complete कमी of रूप और विज़ुअल light बोध और is clinically recorded as NLP, an abbreviation लिये `` no लाइट बोध. ''
दृष्टिहीनता is अक्सर प्रयुक्त to describe severe विज़ुअल पुतलियों साथ दृष्टि.
those described as having only लाइट बोध have no more sight than the ability to tell लाइट from अंधेरा and the general direction of a light source.
To determine which people may need special सहायता क्युकी of their विज़ुअल disabilities, विभिन्न सरकारी jurisdictions have प्रतिपादित more complex definitions referred to as legal दृष्टिहीनता.
in उत्तर America और most of Europe, legal दृष्टिहीनता is defined as विज़ुअल acuity ( vision ) of 20/200 ( 6/60 ) or less in the better नजर साथ best correction possible.
इस means that a legally अँधा व्यक्तिगत होता have to स्टैंड इससे an ऑब्जेक्ट to देखिए it—with corrective lenses —with the same उपाधि of clarity as a सामान्यतः sighted person could इससे.
in अनेक areas, लोगों with औसत तीक्ष्णता who nonetheless have a visual फ़ील्ड of कम than 20 डिग्री ( the norm होने 180 degrees ) are also classified as होने legally blind.
लगभग ten प्रतिशत of those deemed legally blind, by कोई measure, have no vision.
The बाकी have some vision, from light perception alone to relatively good acuity.
कम दृष्टि is sometimes प्रयुक्त to describe विज़ुअल acuities from 20/70 to 20/200.
by the 10th संशोधन of the जो अंतरराष्ट्रीय सांख्यिकीय वर्गीकरण of Diseases, चोटों और Causes of मौत, low vision is पारिभाषित as visual acuity of कम than 20/60 ( 6/18 ), but equal to or better than 20/200 ( 6/60 ), or corresponding visual field loss to कम than 20 डिग्री, in the better eye with best संभावित सुधार.
Blindness is पारिभाषित as visual तीक्ष्णता of less than 20/400 ( 6/120 ), or सम्बन्धित visual फ़ील्ड loss to less than 10 degrees, in the बेहतर eye साथ best possible सुधार.
अँधा people with undamaged eyes may still register लाइट non-visually for the purpose of circadian entrainment to the 24-hour light/dark cycle.
Light signals लिये इस purpose travel through the retinohypothalamic tract and हैं not affected by optic nerve क्षति beyond where the retinohypothalamic ट्रैक्ट exits.
Earl सीमन्स ( born December 18, 1970 ), better ज्ञात by his stage names DMX और अंधेरा man X, is an American rapper और कर्ता.
in 1999, dmx released his best-selling album... और तब वहीँ थी x, which प्रदर्शित the hit सिंगल `` Party Up ( Up in Here ) ``.
He has acted in films such as पेट, Romeo जरूर die, निकास Wounds, पालना 2 The संगीन, and Last घंटा.
In 2006, he स्ट्रक्चर in the वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी, जिससे थी primarily aired on the BET cable टेलीविज़न संजाल.
in 2003, DMX प्रकाशित a book of उसके memoirs हकदार, E.A.R.L. : The Autobiography of DMX.
dmx released a mixtape the तौल in as a prelude/promotion towards उसके album Undisputed ( 2012 ).
DMX रै sold over 30 लाख records विश्वव्यापी, बनाना उसे एक of the best-selling hip-hop artists of सब time.
पेशेवर प्रमाणन, व्यापार certification, or पेशेवर नामांकन, प्रायः called बस certification or qualification, is a नामांकन अर्जित by a व्यक्ति to assure योग्यता to perform a job or task.
नहीं all certifications कि उपयोग post-nominal letters are an स्वीकृति of educational उपलब्धि, or an एजेंसी appointed to safeguard the public interest.
बग बनी is a मजेदार animal cartoon अक्षर, best remembered for उसके अभिनीत भूमिकाएँ in the looney धुनें and Merrie melodies series of नाट्य छोटी films उत्पादित by warner भाईs. दौरान the सुनहरी age of American animation.
His लोकप्रियता during this era led to his बनने a कॉरपोरेट mascot of warner Bros. entertainment.
बग is an anthropomorphic gray hare or खरगोश जो is प्रसिद्ध लिये his flippant, व्यक्तित्व, a सुनाया नई York accent, his portrayal as a trickster, and his catch phrase `` eh...
कया 's up, doc ? ''
( usually said while चबाने a carrot ).
बग रै appeared in more films than कोई other कार्टून अक्षर and is the ninth सबसे portrayed film व्यक्तित्व in the world.
According to his 1990 `` जीवनी '' बग बनी : 50 Years and Only एक Grey Hare, बग थी born on July 27, 1940 in ब्रुकलीन, New York in a वारेन under ebbets Field, home of the ब्रुकलीन Dodgers.
in reality, he was brought to life by the animators and staff of Leon Schlesinger Productions ( बाद warner Bros. Cartoons ) : including टेक्स Avery, जो directed Bugs ' जल्दी definitive short a Wild Hare ( 1940 ) ; Robert McKimson, who created Bugs ' निर्णायक character डिज़ाइन ; और Mel Blanc, who originated the voice of Bugs.
The श्लेष्मक membranes ( or mucosae or mucosas ; singular mucosa ) are linings of ज़्यादातर endodermal उत्पत्ति, covered in epithelium, जिससे हैं involved in absorption और स्राव.
They लकीर cavities कि हैं exposed to the external पर्यावरण and आतंरिक organs.
वे are at several स्थान contiguous with स्किन : at the nostrils, the lips of the mouth, the eyelids, the कानों, the genital area, और the गुदा.
The स्टिकी, मोटा द्रव secreted by the mucous झिल्लियों और glands is termed mucus.
the term mucous membrane refers to जहाँ वे are found in the देह और not प्रत्येक mucous membrane secretes mucus.
the glans clitoridis, glans penis ( सिर of the penis ), साथ साथ the inside of the foreskin और the clitoral हुड, are श्लेष्मक membranes.
The urethra is भी a mucous membrane.
The secreted mucus traps the pathogens in the body, preventing any further क्रियाएँ of diseases.
a master sergeant is the सैन्य rank for a senior non-commissioned अधिकारी in कुछ armed शक्तियां.
Cake is a रूप of ब्रैड or bread-like खाना.
in its modern forms, it is typically a मीठी baked मिठाई.
In its oldest forms, cakes यहूद normally fried breads or cheesecakes, and सामान्यतः had a disk आकार.
determining whether a दिए food should be वर्गीकृत as bread, केक, or पेस्ट्री can be मुश्किल.
आधुनिक cake, especially layer cakes, सामान्यतः contain a combination of आटा, शुगर, eggs, और butter or oil, with कुछ varieties also requiring liquid ( typically milk or water ) and leavening एजेंटों ( ऐसे as yeast or baking चूर्ण ).
Flavorful ingredients like फल purées, nuts, सूखी or candied fruit, or extracts are प्रायः added, and numerous substitutions for the प्राथमिक ingredients हैं possible.
cakes are प्रायः भर with फल preserves or मिठाई sauces ( like pastry cream ), iced साथ buttercream or अन्य icings, and सजा साथ marzipan, piped सीमायें or candied fruit.
Cake is often the dessert of चुनाव for meals at ceremonial अवसरों, विशेषकर विवाह, वर्षगांठ, and जन्मदिन.
There are अनगिनत cake व्यंजनों ; some are bread-like, कुछ rich and विस्तृत, और many हैं सदियां बूढ़ा.
केक making is no longer a जटिल कार्यविधि ; जबकि at one समय considerable labor went into केक बनाना ( particularly the whisking of egg foams ), बेकिंग equipment और directions have महरूम सरलीकृत so कि even the most amateur cook may बेक a cake.
tamara faye LaValley bakker Messner ( March 7, 1942 – जुलाई 20, 2007 ) थी an अमरीकी ईसाई singer, evangelist, उद्योगों, लेखक, बात दिखाएँ मेजबान, and टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व.
She थी married from 1961 to 1992 to televangelist, और later convicted felon, जिम Bakker.
She co-hosted with उसे on The PTL Club ( 1976–1987 ).
वो was a participant in the 2004 ऋतु of the वास्तविकता दिखाएँ The surreal जीवन.
cambria is a village in कोलंबिया County, Wisconsin, United राज्य.
The population थी 767 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
It is part of the मैडिसन Metropolitan सांख्यिकीय Area.
पब्लिक policy is the principled मार्गदर्शिका to action लिया by the प्रशासनिक executive शाखाओं of the state साथ लिहाज़ to a class of मुद्दे in a manner सतत साथ विधि and संस्थागत कस्टम.
In सामान्य, the न्यास is the pertinent नेशनल and substantial constitutional law और implementing विधान ऐसे as the US Federal कोड.
Further substrates include both न्यायिक interpretations and regulations which हैं generally प्राधिकृत by legislation.
अन्य विद्वानों define it as a system of `` courses of action, नियामक उपायों, laws, and funding priorities concerning a given टॉपिक promulgated by a सरकारी एंटिटी or इसके प्रतिनिधि. ''
पब्लिक नीति is commonly embodied `` in constitutions, legislative अधिनियमों, और न्यायिक निर्णय. ''
in the United States, इस अवधारणा refers not तभी to the परिणाम of policies, but more broadly to the decision-making और analysis of governmental निर्णय.
as an academic discipline, public नीति is पढ़ाई by professors and विद्यार्थी at public नीति schools of प्रमुख विश्वविद्यालयों throughout the देश.
The U.S. professional association of पब्लिक नीति practitioners, शोधकर्ताओं, scholars, और students is the Association लिये पब्लिक नीति Analysis और Management.
Digestion is the mechanical और chemical विश्लेषण of खाना into smaller components that are more easily absorbed into a रक्त stream, for instance.
पाचन is a रूप of catabolism : a विश्लेषण of विशाल food अणुओं to छोटी ones.
जब खाना enters the mouth, digestion of the खाना starts by the कार्रवाई of mastication, a form of mechanical पाचन, and the wetting सम्पर्क of saliva.
लार, a द्रव secreted by the salivary glands, contains salivary amylase, an enzyme which starts the पाचन of starch in the food.
After undergoing mastication और starch पाचन, the food will be in the रूप of a small, round slurry mass called a bolus.
it will then सफर down the esophagus और into the stomach by the action of peristalsis.
gastric juice in the पेट starts प्रोटीन पाचन.
gastric रस mainly contains hydrochloric एसिड और pepsin.
as these two रसायन may damage the stomach वॉल, mucus is secreted by the stomach, providing a slimy परत कि acts as a शील्ड विरूद्ध the damaging effects of the रसायन.
at the वही समय प्रोटीन digestion is occurring, mechanical mixing occurs by peristalsis, जिससे हैं लहरें of muscular contractions कि मूव साथ the पेट वॉल.
इस allows the द्रव्यमान of खाना to further मिक्सर साथ the digestive एंजाइमों.
After कुछ time ( typically an hour or दो in इंसानो, 4–6 hours in कुत्तो, somewhat shorter अवधि in house बिल्लियों ), the resulting मोटा liquid is called chyme.
जब the pyloric sphincter वाल्व opens, chyme enters the duodenum where it mixes साथ digestive enzymes from the अग्न्याशय, और तब गुजरता through the छोटी आंत, in which पाचन continues.
When the chyme is fully पचता, it is absorbed into the रक्त.
95 % of अवशोषण of nutrients occurs in the small आंत.
Water और खनिज हैं reabsorbed वापस into the blood in the कोलन ( large आंत ) where the ph is slightly अम्लीय about 5.6 ~ 6.9.
Some विटामिन, ऐसे as biotin and vitamin K ( K2MK7 ) उत्पादित by जीवाणु in the colon हैं भी अवशोषित into the blood in the colon.
बर्बाद material is eliminated from the मलाशय during शौच.
Henry VIII ( 28 जून 1491 – 28 जनवरी 1547 ) थी किंग of England इससे 21 April 1509 until his death.
He was रब, और बाद किंग, of Ireland, as खूब as continuing the नाममात्र claim by the अंग्रेज़ी monarchs to the Kingdom of फ़्रांस.
हेनरी थी the दूसरी monarch of the ट्यूडर राजवंश, succeeding his father, हेनरी सात.
Besides उसके six marriages, Henry VIII is known लिये his भूमिका in the separation of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड from the Roman Catholic Church.
हेनरी 's struggles with Rome led to the विरह of the गिरिजाघर of England from papal प्राधिकार, the Dissolution of the Monasteries, and उसके अपना establishment as the परम् सिर of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड.
yet he remained a आस्तिक in कोर कैथोलिक theological शिक्षाओं, even after उसके excommunication from the Roman कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर.
Henry oversaw the विधिक union of इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स with the कानून in वेल्स Acts 1535 और 1542.
in 1513, the नई king allied with the पावन Roman सम्राट, Maximillian i, और invaded France in 1513 with a large, well-equipped army, but हासिल छोटी at a considerable financial लागत.
Maximillian, लिये उसके part, used the अंग्रेज़ी invasion to his own ends, and इस prejudiced इंग्लैण्ड 's ability to शिकस्त the French.
This foray होता prove the प्रारंभ of an obsession for Henry, who invaded again in 1544.
इस समय, हेनरी 's शक्तियां captured the important city of boulogne, but again the पावन Roman सम्राट, चार्ल्स v, supported हेनरी only as long as he needed to and England, strained by the enormous cost of the युद्ध, ransomed the city वापस लिये सलाम.
उसके contemporaries माना Henry in his prime to be an आकर्षक, शिक्षित और accomplished किंग, and he has been वर्णित as `` एक of the most charismatic rulers to sit on the अंग्रेज़ी सिंहासन ''.
Besides ruling साथ absolute शक्ति, he भी engaged himself as an author and composer.
उसके desire to provide England साथ a male heir – जिससे stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly क्युकी he believed a daughter होता be unable to consolidate the ट्यूडर राजवंश and the fragile peace कि existed following the Wars of the गुलाब – led to the दो things for जिससे हेनरी is most remembered : his छह marriages and the English reformation.
हेनरी became morbidly मोटे and उसके स्वास्थ्य suffered, contributing to his मौत in 1547.
he is frequently characterised in his बाद life as a lustful, egotistical, harsh, and insecure किंग.
bongos ( स्पेनी : bongó ) हैं an afro-cuban percussion instrument.
the drums are of अलग size : the larger drum is called in स्पेनी the hembra ( मादा ) and the smaller the मर्दाना ( पुरूष ).
वे हैं membranophones, or यंत्र that create sound by a vibration of a stretched झिल्ली.
अलग धार्मिक groups include different किताबे in उनके Biblical canons, in varying orders, and sometimes divide or combine किताबे, or चरितार्थ अतिरिक्त material into canonical books.
Christian bibles range इससे the sixty-six books of the प्रोटोस्टेंट canon to the eighty-one books of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo गिरिजाघर canon.
The Hebrew बाइबल, or Tanakh, contains twenty-four books divided into three भाग ; the पाँच books of the तोरा ( `` teaching '' or `` law '' ), the Nevi'im ( `` नबियों '' ), और the Ketuvim ( `` writings '' ).
The पहला part of ईसाई Bibles is the बूढ़ा वसीयत, जिससे contains, at minimum, the twenty-four किताबे of the Hebrew बाइबल divided into thirty-nine books and ordered differently इससे the यहूदी बाइबल.
The Catholic गिरिजाघर and पूर्वी Christian चर्च भी hold certain deuterocanonical किताबे और passages to be part of the Old वसीयत canon.
The दूसरी भाग is the New Testament, containing twenty-seven books ; the four canonical gospels, Acts of the रसूलों, twenty-one Epistles or अक्षर और the Book of Revelation.
the Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox and Eastern कैथोलिक churches may have minor differences in उनके lists of accepted books.
The सूची given यहाँ लिये these चर्च is the most inclusive : if at तनिक one पूर्वी church accepts the किताब it is included यहाँ.
the national flag of the United States of America, प्रायः simply referred to as the American ध्वज, consists of तेरह बराबर आड़ा धारियाँ of red ( शीर्ष and नीचे ) alternating साथ श्वेत, with a ब्लू आयताकार in the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty छोटी, white, five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of छह सितारों ( शीर्ष and नीचे ) प्रत्यावर्ती with rows of पाँच stars.
the 50 सितारों on the flag represent the 50 राज्य of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका और the 13 धारियाँ represent the तेरह British colonies that घोषित independence from the Kingdom of Great ब्रिटेन और became the पहला राज्य in the Union.
Nicknames for the flag शामिल the `` सितारों और Stripes '', `` Old महिमा ``, और `` the star-spangled ध्वज. ''
dred Scott v. sandford,, भी ज्ञात as the dred स्कॉट निर्णय, थी a लैंडमार्क decision by the u.S. परम् Court.
It बना दो main rulings.
The पहला सत्ताधारी थी कि african-americans यहूद not citizens, and therefore had no खड़ा to मुकदमा in संघीय court.
The second ruling थी कि the federal सरकारी had no power to regulate गुलामी in कोई territory acquired subsequent to the सृष्टि of the United States.
दिए the पहला सत्ताधारी, सबसे विद्वानों and many contemporary राजनैतिक figures ( सहित the नेतृत्व of the then-new रिपब्लिकन Party ) माना that the दूसरी सत्ताधारी थी नहीं binding यही, लकिन mere कहावत.
the rationale of the परम् अदालत regarding the jurisdictional सत्ताधारी implied that लोगों of African descent ( both स्लेव और free ) यहूद not सुरक्षित by the Constitution and were not u.S. नागरिकों.
Since passage of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, both rulings are superseded and no longer valid precedent.
nonetheless, the मामला retains historical significance as it is widely regarded as the worst निर्णय कभी made by the Supreme Court.
the राय of the अदालत, लिखा by Chief Justice Roger B. taney, stirred बहस.
the decision थी 7–2, और every इंसाफ besides taney wrote a separate concurrence or dissent.
लिये the first समय चूंकि Marbury v. Madison, the अदालत held an Act of कॉंग्रेस to be असंवैधानिक.
Dred Scott, an african-american slave, had पूछा a संयुक्त States Circuit अदालत to award him his स्वतंत्रता क्युकी he और his master had resided in a state ( इलिनोइस ) और a territory ( विस्कॉन्सिन Territory ) where गुलामी had been बैन.
मुख्य इंसाफ रोजर Taney, writing for the court, आयोजित that स्कॉट, as a person of अफ़्रीकी ancestry, थी नहीं a नागरिक of the संयुक्त राज्य and therefore had no right to मुकदमा in संघीय अदालत.
This holding थी contrary to the practice of numerous राज्य at the time, विशेषकर Free states, where फ़्री blacks किया in fact enjoy the rights of citizens, ऐसे as the right to vote और थाम public दफ्तर.
in कया is sometimes माना mere obiter कहावत, the अदालत went on to hold that कॉंग्रेस था no प्राधिकार to prohibit slavery in federal territories क्युकी slaves हैं personal property and the पांचवां amendment to the संविधान protects property owners against पिछडे of उनके property बगैर due प्रक्रम of विधि.
in reaching this निर्णय, taney had hoped to settle the growing controversy surrounding गुलामी in the संयुक्त States, but it had the विपरीत प्रभाव.
The निर्णय थी fiercely debated आरपार the country, as शायद बेहतरीन सरंचनाओं by the lincoln–douglas debates of 1858.
Abraham Lincoln, the second-ever रिपब्लिकन nominee लिये President, थी able to जीत the अध्यक्षीय election in 1860 ; the stopping of the further expansion of गुलामी was a कुंजी रिपब्लिकन party plank.
the decision निभाई an important role in the समय of state secession और the सिविल युद्ध, although it is extreme to कह the निर्णय `` caused '' the war.
the decision is acknowledged for the influential role it played in altering the national political landscape : it is credited with launching अब्राहम Lincoln’s national राजनैतिक career and ultimately allowing लिये his चुनाव.
Although the Supreme Court has never explicitly overruled the Dred Scott case, the Court stated in the Slaughter-House Cases that at least one भाग of it had already been overruled by the fourteenth amendment in 1868, जिससे begins by stating, `` All व्यक्तियों born or देशीयकृत in the United राज्य, और subject to the क्षेत्राधिकार thereof, are नागरिकों of the संयुक्त States और of the राज्य wherein they reside. ''
To which the Court noted:
The पहला अवलोकन we have to make on इस clause is, that it puts at rest दोनो the सवाल which we stated to have महरूम the विषय of differences of opinion.
it declares that persons may be नागरिकों of the संयुक्त राज्य बगैर लिहाज़ to उनके citizenship of a particular राज्य, और it overturns the Dred Scott निर्णय by making all persons born within the United States and विषय to its jurisdiction नागरिकों of the United राज्य.
वहीँ are dozens of पड़ोस in Columbus, Ohio.
Some are मुश्किल to define, as वे encompass विशाल क्षेत्रों developed at different times—often साथ sub-neighborhoods within them.
सीमायें can also बदलें based on popular समझना of the area, as well as the whims of the residents.
This आलेख उपयोग data इससे the Datasourcecolumbus वेब साईट, Spotcrime.com, hellocolumbus.com, as खूब as the various कोलंबस क्षेत्रफल आयोग to define the various areas.
Excerpts और border सूचना are drawn directly from the main articles.
a biologist is a वैज्ञानिक जो studies जीना organisms and their संबंध to उनके environment.
Biologists involved in मौलिक research attempt to discover underlying mechanisms that govern कैसा organisms कार्य.
biologists शामिल in applied research attempt to develop or improve चिकित्सा, औद्योगिक or agricultural processes.
Martinus विलेम Beijerinck, a botanist और microbiologist
Base कूद from a cliff in a wingsuit.
आधार jumping, भी sometimes written as b.a.s.e. jumping, is an कार्यकलाप जहाँ भागीदार jump from फिक्स्ड objects और use a पैराशूट to ब्रेक their fall.
`` आधार '' is an एक्रोनिम that stands लिये four श्रेणी of फिक्स्ड वस्तुएँ इससे जिससे one can जम्प : इमारतें, antennas, spans ( पुलों ), and earth ( cliffs ).
the British Shorthair is a domesticated cat जिनकी सुविधाएँ मेक it a popular breed in बिल्ली shows.
it has महरूम the सबसे लोकप्रिय नस्ल of बिल्ली पंजीकृत by the uk 's Governing Council of the Cat Fancy ( gccf ) since 2001, जब it overtook the पारसी breed.
the यूएसए Basketball Men 's Senior नेशनल Team, commonly known as the संयुक्त States men 's नेशनल basketball टोली, represents the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका in अंतरराष्ट्रीय मेन 's बास्केट.
the USA is the सबसे successful टोली in international competition, जीतना medals in all सत्रह ओलम्पिक tournaments it रै डाला, coming दूर साथ fourteen golds.
Two of इसके gold medal-winning दस्तों were inducted to the Naismith Memorial बास्केट हॉल of कीर्ति as टीमों in अगस्त 2010—the 1960 टोली, which प्रदर्शित छह हॉल of famers ( 4 players, 2 कोच ), और the 1992 `` Dream टोली '', featuring 14 Hall of famers ( 11 खिलाड़ी, 3 कोच ).
The संयुक्त राज्य is currently क्रमित first in the FIBA संसार rankings.
Traditionally रचित of amateur players, a 1989 नियम बदलें by FIBA allowed यूएसए बास्केट to फ़ील्ड टीमों with professional players.
the first ऐसे team, known as the `` Dream टोली '', जीती the gold पदक at the 1992 Summer ओलंपिक in Barcelona, स्पेन, playing in the फाइनल विरूद्ध Croatia.
With the परिचय of पेशेवर, the team थी समर्थ to spark a दूसरी चलाएं of dominance after capturing तभी a bronze medal in 1988.
a team of पेशेवर players competed at the 1994 FIBA संसार Championship, finishing पहला.
In 1996, 2000, 2008, और 2012 the यूएसए again captured सुनहरा medals.
facing increased प्रतियोगिता, the यूएसए विफल to win a medal at the 2002 fiba संसार चैंपियनशिप, finishing sixth.
The 2004 गर्मियाँ ओलम्पिक team खोया three games on इसके रास्ता to a कांस्य medal, a record that represented more नुकसान in a single साल than the country 's ओलम्पिक teams had suffered in सब पिछला Olympiads combined.
Determined to put an समाप्त to these असफलताओं, USA Basketball initiated a long-term प्रोजेक्ट aimed at creating better, more cohesive टीमों.
The USA जीती its पहला seven games at the 2006 fiba World Championship in Japan पहले losing विरूद्ध Greece in the semi-finals, समाप्ति the competition साथ the कांस्य medal.
the यूएसए जीती सुनहरा two सालो बाद, though, at the 2008 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक साथ a dominant प्रदर्शन.
This कामयाबी थी followed up at the 2010 fiba संसार चैंपियनशिप, where despite fielding a रोस्टर featuring no खिलाड़ी from the 2008 Olympic team, the यूएसए किया नहीं lose a single खेल en route to defeating मेजबान Turkey for the सुनहरा medal.
The यूएसए जारी इस streak of dominance by going undefeated and capturing gold एकबार more at the 2012 Summer Olympics.
The स्टीलर्स Super कटोरी xl ring
जो Theismann 's सुपर कटोरी Ring ( सही )
The सुपर Bowl ring is an पुरस्कार in the National Football लीग दिए to the विजेता of the लीग 's annual संसार चैंपियनशिप खेल, the सुपर कटोरी.
चूंकि तभी one विंस Lombardi Trophy is awarded to the टोली ( स्वामित्व ) itself, the सुपर कटोरी रिंग offers a collectible memento लिये the actual खिलाड़ी and टोली सदस्यों to keep for themselves to symbolize the victory.
चित्र showing the छह most आम speleothems with लेबल्स.
to view labels.
the Witch 's Finger in the carlsbad caverns
a stalagmite ( or ; इससे the यूनानी σταλαγμίτης - stalagmitês, from σταλαγμίας - stalagmias, `` छोड़ने, trickling '' ) is a प्रकार of speleothem that उदय इससे the मंजिल of a चूना गुफा due to the dripping of mineralized solutions और the deposition of calcium carbonate.
इस stalagmite formation occurs तभी under निश्चित ph शर्तें भीतर the भूमिगत cavern.
the सम्बन्धित formation on the छत of a cave is known as a stalactite.
if these formations grow together, the परिणाम is ज्ञात as a column.
The Hall of Giants in the Carlsbad caverns
stalagmites चाहिए normally नहीं be छुआ, since the rock buildup is formed by minerals precipitating out of the जल solution onto the old सतह ; स्किन oils can alter the surface जहाँ the खनिज water होगा cling, thus affecting the growth of the गठन.
oils and dirt from इंसान contact can also दाग the गठन और बदलें इसके color permanently.
समान structures can भी form in lava tubes, associated साथ some प्रकार of lavacicles, although the यांत्रिकी of formation is बहुत अलग.
stalactites और stalagmites can भी रूप on concrete ceilings and floors, हालांकि वे form much अधिक rapidly वहीँ than in the natural गुफा पर्यावरण.
The largest stalagmite in the संसार is ऊँची और is located in the गुफा of Cueva मार्टिन Infierno, क्यूबा.
in the ज़ाग्रोस Mountains of south इरान, लगभग from the ancient city of Bishapur, in the shapur गुफा on the fourth of five terraces स्टैंड the 3rd century CE statue of shapur i, second ruler of the Sassanid Empire.
The statue, carved इससे एक stalagmite, is nearly ऊँची.
How i मिले Your Mother is an American sitcom that premiered on CBS on September 19, 2005.
the show was निर्मित by क्रेग Thomas और कार्टर Bays.
कैसा i मिले अपना माँ is framed by the year 2030, जब Ted mosby ( voiced by bob saget ) gathers उसके बेटी ( lyndsy fonseca ) और बेटे ( दाउद Henrie ) to tell them the स्टोरी of कैसा he met their mother.
we फ्लैशबैक to जहाँ it begins in 2005 साथ टेड Mosby ( Josh radnor ) as a single, 27-year-old architect living साथ his दो बेहतरीन मित्रों from Wesleyan University, Marshall Eriksen ( Jason Segel ), a विधि छात्र, और लिली Aldrin ( alyson हनिंगन ), a kindergarten teacher, जो have महरूम डेटिंग for लगभग nine years जब मार्शल proposes.
उनके सगाई कल्याणकारी Ted to think परिचय finding his अपना soul mate, much to the disgust of his dost Barney stinson ( neil Patrick हैरिस ), a womanizer with an unnamed कॉरपोरेट job.
और यूँ, Ted begins his ढूंढें लिये his पूर्ण mate, and meets रोबिन scherbatsky ( Cobie Smulders ), जिसको he भी befriends.
The 100th एपीसोड of कैसा I मिले अपना माँ aired on जनवरी 11, 2010.
On दिसम्बर 21, 2012, the series was नवीनीकृत for a नवीं season.
on January 30, 2013, it was announced that Season 9 will be इसके final season.
gringo (,, ) is a slang Spanish and पुर्तगाली word प्रयुक्त in ibero-america, to denote विदेशियों, प्रायः from the संयुक्त राज्य.
the पद can be applied to किसी जो is दरअसल a foreigner, or it can denote a दमदार association or सम्मिलन into foreign ( particularly us ) समाज and संस्कृति.
in स्पेनी it does नहीं have a negative connotation.
रोजर axtell, a travel etiquette विशेषज्ञ, notes that `` [ t ] he शब्द gringo is नहीं necessarily a ख़राब word.
it is slang लकिन is अपमानजनक तभी in इसके use and कॉन्टेक्स्ट. ''
The word थी used in स्पेन long पहले it crossed the अटलांटिक to denote विदेशी, non-native speakers of Spanish.
The great white शार्क, carcharodon carcharias, also known as the great श्वेत, श्वेत pointer, श्वेत शार्क, or white मौत, is a species of विशाल lamniform shark जिससे can be मिला in the तटीय surface waters of all the major महासागर.
the ग्रेट white शार्क is mainly known for its आकार, साथ the largest individuals ज्ञात to have approached or exceeded in लंबाई, और in weight.
इस शार्क पहुँच इसके maturity around 15 years of आयु और can have a life स्पैन of over 30 सालो.
The great श्वेत शार्क is arguably the world 's largest ज्ञात extant macropredatory मछली, और is एक of the प्राथमिक परभक्षी of समुद्री स्तनधारियों.
it is भी ज्ञात to prey upon a किस्में of other marine पशु, सहित मछली और seabirds.
it is the only ज्ञात surviving प्रजाति of इसके genus Carcharodon, and is क्रमित first in having the most हमले on humans.
The आईयूसीएन सूची the ग्रेट white शार्क as a vulnerable species, while it is शामिल in Appendix II of cites.
The bestselling novel Jaws by पीटर Benchley and the subsequent ब्लॉकबस्टर फिल्मी by स्टीवन स्पिलबर्ग चित्रित the ग्रेट white शार्क as a `` ferocious man भक्षक ``.
In वास्तविकता, humans हैं नहीं the preferred prey of the great white shark.
the United राज्य हथियारबंद Forces हैं the military forces of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका.
वे consist of the फौज, Navy, Marine Corps, एयर फ़ोर्स, और Coast गार्ड.
The u.S. रै a strong tradition of civilian control of the सैन्य.
The अध्यक्ष is the सैन्य 's overall head, and helps form सैन्य policy with the U.S. विभाग of Defense ( dod ), a federal कार्यपालिका department, एक्टिंग as the प्रिंसिपल अंग by which सैन्य policy is carried out.
the DoD is headed by the Secretary of Defense, जो is a civilian और कैबिनेट सदस्य.
the रक्षा Secretary is दूसरी in the सैन्य 's कड़ी of कमांड, बस नीचे the अध्यक्ष, और serves as the प्रिंसिपल assistant to the अध्यक्ष in all DoD-related matters.
To coordinate military action with कूटनीति, the अध्यक्ष रै an advisory National सुरक्षा Council headed by a National सुरक्षा सलाहकार.
दोनो the President and Secretary of रक्षा हैं advised by a seven-member संयुक्त chiefs of Staff, which शामिल the head of प्रत्येक of the Defense Department 's सेवा शाखाओं as well as the मुख्य of the नेशनल Guard Bureau.
Leadership is provided by the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त chiefs of स्टाफ और the वाइस Chairman of the Joint chiefs of स्टाफ.
the Commandant of the Coast Guard is not a member of the संयुक्त Chiefs of Staff.
सब of the शाखाओं कार्य together during परिचालन and संयुक्त missions, अंतर्गत the Unified combatant Commands, under the authority of the सचिव of रक्षा with the एक्सेप्शन of the coast Guard.
the Coast गार्ड जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the administration of the विभाग of मातृभूमि सुरक्षा और receives इसके operational orders from the Secretary of Homeland सुरक्षा.
The coast गार्ड may be transferred to the विभाग of the नेवी by the अध्यक्ष or Congress दौरान a समय of युद्ध.
All पाँच हथियारबंद services are among the सात uniformed services of the United States ; the अन्य are the u.S. Public स्वास्थ्य Service Commissioned Corps and the National Oceanic और Atmospheric प्रशासन Commissioned corps.
From the time of its inception, the सैन्य निभाई a निर्णायक भूमिका in the इतिहास of the United राज्य.
A भाव of national unity and identity was forged as a परिणाम of victory in the पहला Barbary युद्ध and the दूसरी Barbary युद्ध.
भी so, the संस्थापकों were संदिग्ध of a स्थाई military force और नहीं until the outbreak of World युद्ध ii किया a विशाल खड़ा army become officially स्थापित.
The National सुरक्षा अधिनियम of 1947, अपनाया following World युद्ध ii और दौरान the Cold युद्ध 's onset, निर्मित the modern U.S. सैन्य framework ; the अधिनियम merged previously Cabinet-level विभाग of युद्ध and the विभाग of the Navy into the नेशनल Military Establishment ( renamed the विभाग of Defense in 1949 ), headed by the सचिव of रक्षा ; and निर्मित the Department of the Air फ़ोर्स and National सुरक्षा Council.
the U.S. सैन्य is एक of the largest militaries in terms of क्रमांक of कर्मियों.
It draws इसके जनशक्ति from a विशाल pool of सशुल्क स्वयंसेवक ; although conscription रै been प्रयुक्त in the past in various टाइम्स of both war and peace, it रै not been प्रयुक्त since 1972.
as of 2013, the u.S. spends परिचय $ 554.2 billion annually to निधि इसके सैन्य शक्तियां, और appropriates लगभग $ 88.5 अरब to fund Overseas आकस्मिकता परिचालन.
Put साथ, the u.S. constitutes roughly 43 percent of the world 's सैन्य expenditures.
the u.S. हथियारबंद Forces as a पूरे possess विशाल quantities of advanced और शक्तिशाली उपकरण, साथ with फैली placement of forces around the संसार, giving them significant सामर्थ्य in दोनो defense and power प्रक्षेप.
स्वतंत्रता of speech is the राजनैतिक right to communicate एक 's opinions and विचार using one 's देह and property to anyone who is willing to receive उन्हें.
The पद स्वतंत्रता of अभिव्यक्ति is sometimes used synonymously, लकिन includes कोई act of seeking, receiving और imparting सूचना or ideas, regardless of the मीडियम used.
In practice, the right to freedom of वाक is नहीं absolute in any देश और the सही is commonly subject to limitations, as साथ libel, slander, obscenity, राजद्रोह ( including, लिये उदाहरण inciting जातीय hatred ), copyright उल्लंघन, revelation of सूचना that is classified or वरना.
the right to स्वतंत्रता of expression is पहचाना as a human right under आलेख 19 of the Universal घोषणा of Human अधिकारों और recognized in अंतरराष्ट्रीय इंसान rights विधि in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Covenant on सिविल और Political अधिकारों ( iccpr ).
Article 19 of the iccpr राज्य that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without हस्तक्षेप '' and `` everyone shall have the right to freedom of अभिव्यक्ति ; इस right shall include स्वतंत्रता to seek, receive और impart सूचना and ideas of सब kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in लिखने or in print, in the form of art, or through any अन्य मीडिया of his choice ''.
Article 19 goes on to कह कि the exercise of ये अधिकारों carries `` खास duties and जिम्मेदारियों `` और may `` therefore be विषय to निश्चित restrictions '' when necessary `` [ f ] or आदर of the अधिकारों or reputation of अन्य '' or `` [ f ] or the protection of national security or of पब्लिक order ( order पब्लिक ), or of पब्लिक health or morals ''.
Freedom of वाक may be legally curtailed in कुछ धार्मिक legal systems और in secular jurisdictions where it is found to कारण धार्मिक ठोकर, such as the British Racial और Religious द्वेष Act 2006.
the Big बंग Theory लोगो.
The Big Bang सिद्धान्त is an American कॉमेडी television श्रेणी निर्मित and कार्यपालिका produced by Chuck Lorre and विधेयक prady.
Like the name of the series itself, with the exception of the first episode— '' Pilot '' —episode शीर्षक of the बिग बंग सिद्धान्त सदा start with `` the '' और resemble the name of a scientific principle, सिद्धान्त or experiment, whimsically referencing a प्लाट point or quirk.
, 133 एपीसोड have aired.
The Big Bang Theory रै been renewed लिये a सातवाँ ऋतु.
Dwight David `` Ike '' Eisenhower ( pronounced, ; अक्तूबर 14, 1890 – कूच 28, 1969 ) was the 34th President of the संयुक्त राज्य इससे 1953 until 1961.
he had previously been a five-star सामान्य in the United States Army दौरान संसार युद्ध II और परोसा as परम् Commander of the Allied Forces in यूरोपीय ; he था responsibility for planning और supervising the invasion of उत्तर अफ़्रीकी in Operation Torch in 1942–43 और the successful आक्रमण of France and Germany in 1944–45 इससे the Western सामने.
in 1951, he became the first परम् commander of नाटो.
Eisenhower थी of Pennsylvania डच ancestry और was reared in a large family in Kansas by अभिभावक with a मजबूत कार्य ethic and religious पृष्ठभूमि.
As एक of छह बेटे, he was conditioned by a प्रतिस्पर्धी माहौल which instilled self-reliance.
he attended and ग्रैजुएट from West Point और later married and had दो sons.
बाद World War ii, आइज़नहावर परोसा as फौज मुख्य of स्टाफ under अध्यक्ष हैरी S. ट्रूमैन, तब assumed the post of अध्यक्ष at Columbia विश्वविद्यालयों.
Eisenhower entered the 1952 presidential रेस as a Republican to counter the non-interventionism of सीनेटर Robert A. Taft and to crusade against `` साम्यवादी, Korea and corruption ''.
he won by a landslide, defeating डेमोक्रेट Adlai stevenson और समाप्ति two दशकों of the नई Deal गठबन्धन.
in the first साल of his presidency, आइज़नहावर अपदस्थ the नेता of Iran in the 1953 ईरानी तख्तापलट d'état और used नाभिकीय threats to conclude the कोरियाई War साथ China.
His New dekh नीति of nuclear deterrence gave प्रधानता to inexpensive nuclear हथियार जबकि reducing the funding लिये conventional सैन्य forces ; the goal was to रखना pressure on the सोवियत Union and reduce federal deficits.
In 1954, Eisenhower first articulated the domino theory in his वर्णन of the threat प्रस्तुत by the स्प्रेड of communism.
the Congress agreed to उसके request in 1955 for the Formosa Resolution, जिससे सक्रिय him to prevent चाइनीज कम्युनिस्ट आक्रामकता विरूद्ध चाइनीज राष्ट्रवादियों and established the U.S. नीति of defending ताईवान.
When the soviets शुभारम्भ sputnik in 1957, he had to खेल catch-up in the space रेस.
आइज़नहावर मजबूर इसराईल, the uk, and France to end their आक्रमण of मिश्र during the स्वेज Crisis of 1956.
In 1958, he भेजा 15,000 us सैनिकों to Lebanon to prevent the pro-Western सरकारी इससे falling to a nasser -inspired क्रान्ति.
निकट the समाप्त of his पद, उसके efforts to नियत up a summit meeting with the Soviets collapsed because of the U-2 घटना.
On the domestic front, he covertly opposed Joseph मैकार्थी और contributed to the समाप्त of McCarthyism by खुलकर invoking the आधुनिक expanded संस्करण of कार्यपालिका विशेषाधिकार.
he otherwise left most political कार्यकलाप to his वाइस अध्यक्ष, रिचर्ड निक्सन.
he थी a moderate conservative who continued नई सौदे agencies and expanded सोशल Security.
Among his enduring innovations, he launched the अंतरराज्यीय Highway प्रणाली ; the Defense Advanced Research Projects एजेंसी ( darpa ), जिससे led to the internet, among many invaluable outputs ; the नेशनल aeronautics and Space Administration ( नासा ), ड्राइविंग शांतिपूर्ण discovery in space ; the establishment of strong science शिक्षा via the नेशनल Defense शिक्षा अधिनियम ; and प्रोत्साहित शांतिपूर्ण use of नाभिकीय power via amendments to the परमाणु उर्जा अधिनियम.
In social policy, he sent संघीय सैनिकों to Little चट्टान, अरकंसास, लिये the first time चूंकि Reconstruction to enforce federal अदालत orders to desegregate पब्लिक स्कूलों.
he also हस्ताक्षरित सिविल अधिकारों विधान in 1957 and 1960 to protect the right to vote.
he implemented desegregation of the हथियारबंद शक्तियां in दो years और बना five नियुक्ति to the Supreme अदालत.
he was the first term-limited president in accordance साथ the 22nd Amendment.
आइज़नहावर 's two शर्तें यहूद शांतिपूर्ण ones for the most part और saw considerable economic समृद्धि मगर लिये a sharp recession in 1958–59.
Eisenhower is often क्रमित अत्यधिक among the U.S. Presidents.
Air Force One is the official air traffic कंट्रोल कॉल sign of a United States Air फ़ोर्स वायुयान carrying the President of the संयुक्त States.
In common parlance the term refers to those Air Force वायुयान specifically designed, निर्मित, और प्रयुक्त for the purpose of transporting the president.
the Presidential aircraft is a prominent प्रतीक of the अमरीकी presidency and its शक्ति.
the विचार of designating विशिष्ट सैन्य वायुयान to transport the President arose in 1943, जब officials of the संयुक्त राज्य Army एयर शक्तियां – the predecessor to the u.S. Air Force – became चिंतित with relying on वाणिज्यिक एयरलाइंस to transport the President.
a c-87 मुक्तिवादी Express थी reconfigured for use as a अध्यक्षीय हस्तांतरण ; however, it थी rejected by the रहस्य सेवा amid concerns over the वायुयान 's सुरक्षा रिकार्ड.
A C-54 skymaster थी then परिवर्तित लिये presidential उपयोग ; इस aircraft, उतावले the पवित्र गाय, transported President फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट to the Yalta Conference in फ़रवरी 1945, और was subsequently प्रयुक्त लिये another दो सालो by अध्यक्ष हैरी S. Truman.
the `` एयर Force One '' कॉल चिह्न was निर्मित after a 1953 घटना during which a उड़ान carrying President ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर entered the same airspace as a वाणिज्यिक एयरलाइन flight using the same call चिह्न.
Several aircraft have been प्रयुक्त as एयर फ़ोर्स One since the सृष्टि of the presidential fleet, including two बोइंग 707s introduced in the 1960s और 1970s, क्रमशः ; since 1990, the presidential fleet has consisted of two बोइंग VC-25As – specifically configured, highly customized बोइंग 747-200B श्रेणी वायुयान.
The Air Force is looking into replacing the two VC-25 वायुयान साथ three replacement वायुयान beginning in 2017.
A विवाह anniversary is the वर्षगांठ of the date a wedding took place.
Traditional names exist लिये most of उन्हें : for instance, 50 सालो of marriage is called a `` golden विवाह anniversary '' or बस a `` golden anniversary ''.
a स्कैनर with Duplexing स्वचालित दस्तावेज़ Feeder.
in multifunction or all-in-one मुद्रक, fax मशीने, photocopiers और scanners, an स्वचालित दस्तावेज़ फीडर or ADF is a विशेषता जिससे takes several पृष्ठों और feeds the पेपर एक पेज at a time into a scanner or कॉपियर, allowing the user to scan, and thereby copy, छपाई, or फैक्स, multiple-page documents without having to manually बदलें each पेज.
सबसे copiers allow स्कैनिंग on the flatbed or platen ( the `` glass '' ) or through a document फीडर.
The vast बहुमत of फैक्स मशीने have an adf, allowing the unattended sending of multi-page faxes.
due to the ubiquity of adf in फैक्स मशीने, some फैक्स यंत्र स्वामी उपयोग the फैक्स यंत्र as a स्कैनर, faxing multi-page दस्तावेज़ to themselves.
Document feeders are वर्णित by speed, in pages per minute or ppm, and क्षमता, usually in a range इससे 10 sheets to 200.
वहीँ are दो kinds of document feeders सक्षम of two-sided ( duplex ) scanning : a reversing स्वचालित document feeder or radf scans एक पक्ष of a पेज, तब flips it and scans the अन्य पक्ष.
A duplexing स्वचालित document फीडर or DADF scans दोनो पहलू in one pass.
the लाभ of the dadf is तेज़ गति for two-sided मूल.
radfs और DADFs are रेटेड in बिंब per मिनट ( IPM ), the क्रमांक of पहलू वे can scan each minute.
Fair Park is a recreational और educational complex स्तिथ in Dallas, Texas ( USA ).
the complex is registered as a Dallas लैंडमार्क, National ऐतिहासिक Landmark और is घर to नौ museums, छह प्रदर्शन सुविधाएं, a लैगून, और the largest Ferris व्हील in उत्तर America.
अनेक of the buildings on the जटिल यहूद constructed लिये the Texas centennial Exposition in 1936 जिससे drew over six लाख विज़िटर.
Most of the buildings built for the exposition स्टिल जीवित और it is recognized as a significant example of आर्ट Deco वास्तुकला.
Fair Park रै महरूम designated a Great प्लेस in अमेरिका by the American नियोजन Association.
the American Planning संघ ( apa ) “is an स्वतंत्र, not-for-profit शैक्षणिक organization कि provides leadership in the विकास of vital communities.”
The ग्रेट Places in अमरीकी कार्यक्रम helps to celebrate क्षेत्रों with “exemplary अक्षर, quality, and planning.”
Being designated as a Great प्लेस in America, Fair पार्क थी एक of तभी ten शहरों chosen in 2011.
San जोस ( ; स्पेनी : St. Joseph ) is the third-largest city in California, the tenth-largest in the u.S., और the county seat of Santa Clara County which is located at the southern समाप्त of सैन Francisco Bay.
San Jose is the largest city within सिलिकॉन घाटी, which is a प्रमुख component of the greater San Francisco Bay क्षेत्रफल, a region of 8.4 million लोगों and the पांचवां largest metropolitan area ( CSA ) in the संयुक्त States.
It is the largest नगर in उत्तरी California.
San Jose was संस्थापित on November 29, 1777, as el pueblo de San José de Guadalupe, the पहला civilian कस्बा in the Spanish colony of Nueva कैलिफ़ोर्निया, जिससे बाद became alta कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
The city परोसा as a farming जातियाँ to support Spanish सैन्य installations at San फ्रांसिस्को और Monterey.
जब California gained statehood in 1850, San Jose परोसा as its पहला पूंजी.
बाद more than 150 years as a छोटी खेती नगर, San Jose और the surrounding Santa Clara Valley became the last ( और largest ) संलग्न area of अविकसित जमीन surrounding the सैन फ्रांसिस्को Bay.
San जोस experienced increased demand for आवास from सैनिको और veterans returning from संसार युद्ध ii.
San जोस then जारी its aggressive expansion during the 1950s and 1960s by annexing more land area.
the rapid विकास of the high-technology and electronics industries further accelerated the परिवर्तन from an agricultural center, to an urbanized metropolitan area.
by the 1990s, सैन जोस 's स्थान भीतर the booming लोकल प्रौद्योगिकी industry earned the city इसके उपनाम, पूंजी of सिलिकॉन घाटी.
San जोस now maintains global नगर औकात और is the largest नगर in the San फ्रांसिस्को Bay क्षेत्रफल in terms of population, जमीन area, और industrial development.
the u.S. जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो reported the population of the city to be 945,942 as of the 2010 Census.
As of अप्रैल 2013, the estimated जनसांख्यिकी of San जोस was 984,000.
सैन जोस, along साथ the Santa क्लारा घाटी, अनुभवी परिचय half a century of spectacular suburban sprawl, with characteristics of intense शहरी समान to the Los एंजिल्स area of Southern कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
the city रै लिया definite कदम to avoid बनने `` L.A. उत्तर ''.
however, the sprawl in San Jose is बदतर than in Los एंजिल्स by उपायों such as population घनत्व and पब्लिक पारगमन safety, investment, और ridership.
यूरोपीय चित्रित by Antwerp cartographer Abraham ortelius in 1595
the history of यूरोपीय covers the people inhabiting the यूरोपीय continent since it थी first आबादी in प्रागैतिहासिक times to उपस्थित, with the first होमो sapiens arriving between 45,000 और 25,000 bc.
the earliest settlers to Prehistoric Europe आए दौरान the paleolithic era.
the आगमन of कृषि around 7000 bc ushered in the neolithic age.
पाषाणकालीन यूरोपीय lasted लिये 4000 सालो, overlapping साथ metal-using संस्कृतियों that gradually spread throughout the महाद्वीप.
Technological अग्रिम दौरान the प्रागैतिहासिक age tended to arrive from the मध्य East, spreading धीरे to the northwest.
Some of the best-known सभ्यताओं of प्रागैतिहासिक यूरोपीय were Minoan and माइसीनियाई, जिससे flourished दौरान the कांस्य Age until वे collapsed in a short period of time around 1200 BC.
The period known as classical प्राचीनता began साथ the rise of the city-states of Ancient Greece.
यूनानी influence पहुँचे its zenith अंतर्गत the expansive साम्राज्य of Alexander the ग्रेट, spreading throughout एशिया.
उत्तरी और western Europe यहूद वर्चस्व by the la Tène culture, a precursor to the celts.
Rome, a छोटी city-state traditionally founded in 753 bc, would grow to become the Roman गणतंत्र in 509 bc और होता succeed यूनानी culture as the प्रबल भूमध्यसागरीय civilization.
The कार्यक्रम of the rule of जूलियस Caesar led to reorganization of the गणतंत्र into the रोमन साम्राज्य.
the empire was later divided by the सम्राट diocletian into the पश्चिमी और Eastern empires.
दौरान the later सालो of the Roman Empire, the Germanic peoples of northern यूरोपीय grew in शक्ति और दोहराया हमले led to the Fall of the Western रोमन Empire in AD 476, a तिथि जिससे traditionally marks the समाप्त of the classical काल and the प्रारंभ of the Middle आयु.
During the मध्य Ages, the पूर्वी Roman साम्राज्य survived, हालांकि आधुनिक historians refer to this राज्य as the बीज़ान्टिन Empire.
in पश्चिमी यूरोपीय, Germanic peoples moved into स्थितियाँ of शक्ति in the remnants of the former Western Roman साम्राज्य and established kingdoms and empires of उनके own.
Of सब of the Germanic peoples, the franks होता rise to a position of आधिपत्य over पश्चिमी Europe, the frankish साम्राज्य reaching इसके शिखर under Charlemagne around AD 800.
Francia was divided into several भाग ; वेस्ट francia होता evolve into the किंगडम of फ़्रांस, while ईस्ट francia would evolve into the Holy रोमन साम्राज्य, a precursor to modern जर्मनी.
the British isles were the साईट of अनेक large-scale migrations.
Native Celtic peoples था been अधिकारहीन during the काल of रोमन Britain, और when the romans abandoned the British isles दौरान the 400s, लहरें of Germanic Anglo-Saxons migrated to दक्षिणी Britain and established a series of क्षुद्र kingdoms in कया would eventually develop into the किंगडम of England by ad 927.
दौरान this period, the किंगडम of Poland और Kingdom of हंगेरियाई ( 1000–1945 ) were व्यवस्थित as खूब.
the viking आयु, a काल of migrations of Scandinavian peoples, dominated the काल इससे the late 700s to the मध्य 1000s.
मुख्य among the viking राज्य was the Empire of Cnut the Great, a Danish नेता who होता become king of England, Denmark, and Norway.
the Normans, a Viking लोगों जो settled in Northern France और संस्थापित the Duchy of Normandy, होता have a significant impact on many parts of यूरोपीय, इससे the नॉर्मन conquest of England to Southern इटली और Sicily.
Another scandinavian लोगों, the rus ' people, होता go on to found kievan rus ', an early राज्य which थी a precursor लिये the modern देश of रूस.
As the Viking Age खींचा to a बंद, the काल known as the क्रूसेड, a series of religiously-motivated military रिझाने originally intended to bring the levant वापस into ईसाई rule, began.
Several Crusader states यहूद founded in the eastern भूमध्यसागरीय.
ये यहूद all short-lived.
the crusaders होता have a profound प्रभाव on अनेक parts of यूरोपीय.
Their Sack of कुस्तुंतुनिया in 1204 brought an abrupt end to the बीज़ान्टिन साम्राज्य.
विलुप्त श्वान breeds is a संकलन of dog breeds that have become extinct.
वी बोलो is a microphone accessory लिये निन्टेंडो 's Wii video game console.
Connected to the कंसोल via usb, the device can be लगाई निकट the वीडियो display, allowing आवाज़ गपशप to be conducted with the संपूर्ण room.
The device सुविधाएँ an led to indicate जब the microphone is active.
Wii Speak थी घोषित at Nintendo 's 2008 e3 media drug.
It was released separately and bundled साथ Animal Crossing : City लोक on November 16, 2008, in North America, and थी released on December 5, 2008, in Europe.
the Wii Speak accessory is succeeded by the embedded microphone on the Wii U 's gamepad controller.
निसान Intelligent Key®
A smart कुंजी is an electronic access और authorization प्रणाली which is available as an option or standard in several गाड़ियाँ.
it थी first विकसित by siemens in the mid-1990s और introduced by Mercedes-Benz अंतर्गत the नाम `` keyless Go '' in 1998 on the W220 s-class following its design पेटेंट filed by daimler-benz on may 17, 1997.
univisión ( ) is a spanish-language टेलीविज़न network in the संयुक्त राज्य.
the संजाल is primarily समर्पित for Latin अमरीकी families जो reside in the United States.
It has the largest audience of spanish-language टेलीविज़न दर्शक in the world according to nielsen ratings.
Randy Falco, ( सीईओ as of जून 29, 2011 ) coo, रै been in चार्ज of the company since the प्रस्थान of Univision Communications अध्यक्ष and सीईओ Joe uva in अप्रैल 2010.
in हाल सालो the network has reached parity with the U.S. 's five major English-language television networks, and is प्रायः a strong पांचवां, outranking the cw, with कुछ fourth-place weekly placings, and as of 2012, भी पहला place rankings लिये व्यक्तिगत programs over all five English networks due to the network 's consistent अनुसूची of new telenovelas सब 52 weeks of the year.
Univisión is headquartered in New York, और रै इसके major studios, production facilities, and operations in doral, फ्लोरिडा, a suburb of मियामी.
In 2009, another television studio थी घोषित, univision studios, to be built in Doral.
Univision is उपलब्धियाँ on cable और उपग्रह in most of the country, with लोकल stations in over 50 बाज़ार साथ large Hispanic and Latino populations and a national केबल network feed वितरित in बाज़ार without either the availability or the demand लिये a locally-based station.
सबसे of ये stations air full लोकल news और अन्य लोकल programming in जोड to network shows, और in major markets ऐसे as Los Angeles, नई यॉर्क, and मियामी the लोकल newscasts carried by the network 's owned-and-operated station ( O & o ) stations are बराबर competitive with उनके english-language counterparts ratings-wise.
Univisión थी acquired on March 29, 2007 by a consortium led by haim saban 's Saban पूंजी समूह ( जो had previously owned the entity saban Entertainment ), tpg पूंजी, l.P., Providence Equity Partners, मैडिसन Dearborn साझेदार, and Thomas H. ली Partners लिये $ 13.7 अरब or $ 36.25 प्रति share plus $ 1.4 अरब in acquired debt.
The buyout left the कम्पनी with a कर्ज़ level of twelve times इसके annual नकदी flow, जिससे थी twice the norm in buyouts किया over the previous दो years.
Artist 's धारणा of a protoplanetary डिस्क
The formation and of the Solar प्रणाली is estimated to have begun 4.6 अरब years पहले with the गुरुत्वाकर्षक collapse of a छोटी part of a giant molecular बादल.
सबसे of the collapsing द्रव्यमान एकत्रित in the केन्द्र, forming the Sun, while the rest flattened into a आदिग्रह डिस्क आउट of which the planets, moons, asteroids, and अन्य small सौर प्रणाली लाशें formed.
इस widely स्वीकृत मॉडल, known as the nebular hypothesis, थी first developed in the 18th century by emanuel Swedenborg, Immanuel kant, and pierre-simon Laplace.
इसके subsequent development रै interwoven a किस्में of वैज्ञानिक disciplines including खगोलशास्त्र, physics, geology, और ग्रहीय विज्ञान.
चूंकि the dawn of the space आयु in the 1950s और the डिस्कवरी of extrasolar planets in the 1990s, the model रै been both challenged and refined to account लिये new observations.
The सौर प्रणाली has evolved considerably since इसके आरंभिक गठन.
Many moons have formed इससे circling discs of गैस and dust around उनके parent planets, जबकि अन्य moons are विचार to have formed independently और बाद महरूम captured by their planets.
Still others, as the धरती 's चंद्रमा, may be the परिणाम of giant टक्करों.
टक्करों between bodies have occurred continually up to the उपस्थित दिन and have been central to the एवोल्यूशन of the सौर System.
the स्थितियाँ of the ग्रह often shifted, and planets have switched places.
इस planetary migration is अभी thought to have been responsible लिये much of the Solar प्रणाली 's जल्दी evolution.
In roughly 5 billion years, the सूर्य होगा cool and विस्तार outward many times its वर्तमान व्यास ( becoming a रेड giant ), before ढलाई बंद इसके outer layers as a planetary nebula और leaving behind a stellar remnant known as a श्वेत बौना.
in the दूर दूर future, the गम्भीरता of गुजर stars will gradually reduce the Sun 's retinue of ग्रह.
कुछ planets will be नष्ट, अन्य ejected into अंतरतारकीय स्पेस.
Ultimately, over the कोर्स of tens of अरबों of years, it is likely that the सूर्य will be left with none of the असली लाशें in orbit around it.
the विचारण ( काफ्का 's असली German title :, later as, and ) is a अनोखा लिखा by Franz काफ्का in 1914 and 1915 लकिन not प्रकाशित जबतक 1925.
एक of Kafka 's best-known works, it tells the स्टोरी of a man गिरफ्तार और prosecuted by a remote, अभिगम्य प्राधिकार, with the nature of उसके अपराधों नाज़िल to neither him nor the reader.
जैसे Kafka 's अन्य novels, The Trial was never समाप्त, although it does शामिल a अध्याय which brings the story to an end.
क्युकी of इस there are निश्चित inconsistencies जिससे मौजूद भीतर the novel, ऐसे as असमानताओं in timing in addition to other discontinuities in narration.
बाद काफ्का 's मौत in 1924 his friend और साहित्यिक executor Max brod edited the टेक्स्ट for publication by Verlag die schmiede.
The original manuscript is held at the Museum of Modern साहित्य, marbach am neckar, Germany.
In 1999, the book थी listed in Le mondes 100 Books of the Century and as no. 2 of the बेहतरीन जर्मनी novels of the बीसवीं सदी.
लिसा Anne Loeb ( born March 11, 1968 ) is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter और actress.
वो शुभारम्भ her करियर in 1994 साथ the song, `` रहो ( I Missed तुम ) ``, which was शामिल in the फिल्मी वास्तविकता bites.
She थी the first artist to have a number one सिंगल in the संयुक्त States while नहीं signed to a recording contract.
Her पाँच स्टुडियो cds include her प्रमुख लेबल debut, the gold-selling tails और its follow-up, the Grammy-nominated, gold-selling पटाखा.
लोएब रै also worked in फिल्मी, television, voice-over कार्य and children’s recordings.
Loeb रै appeared in two टेलीविज़न series, dweezil & लिसा, a weekly culinary एडवेंचर for the Food Network and Number 1 Single, a वास्तविकता दिखाएँ on the e !
संजाल in 2006 focused on her quest for love, कामयाबी, career, और परिवार.
उसके children 's म्यूज़िक शामिल the एल्बम Catch the चंद्रमा ( 2003 ), और शिविर Lisa ( 2008 ).
उसके पहला joint children 's किताब और album Lisa लोएब 's पगली Sing-Along : the निराशाजनक Pancake and अन्य zany गीतों थी published in 2011.
In 2010 वो founded the लिसा Loeb चश्मा Collection, जिससे is based on उसके अपना डिजाइन.
the कोट of arms of the राज्य of New जर्सी शामिलs:
A shield with three plows emblazoned, प्रतिनिधि of New जर्सी 's agricultural tradition.
A forward-facing knight 's helmet.
a घोड़ा 's head as the crest of the हेल्मेट.
the female figures स्वतंत्रता and Ceres, प्रतिनिधि of the state 's motto ( देखिए अगला item ).
Liberty is holding a staff supporting a `` स्वतंत्रता cap `` ; Ceres is पकड़कर an overflowing cornucopia.
The streamer at the पैर of the emblem contains the State motto of New Jersey, `` Liberty और Prosperity '', और the साल of statehood, 1776.
it थी originally designed by पियरे Eugene du Simitiere in 1777 and थी परिवर्धित थोड़ा in 1928.
the मुहर is the सेंट्रल मोटिफ in the flag of नई जर्सी और the Great Seal of the State of नई Jersey.
The कोट of बाहें contains a घोड़ा 's सिर.
a helmet showing कि नई जर्सी governs itself accordingly और three plows on a शील्ड referring to the राज्य 's agriculture tradition, giving it the उपनाम `` Garden State ''.
The दो Goddesses represent the State motto, `` स्वतंत्रता and Prosperity ''.
Liberty is on the left.
She is पकड़कर a स्टाफ साथ a स्वतंत्रता कैप on it, और the word स्वतंत्रता underneath her.
The देवी on the सही is Ceres, goddess of agriculture.
वो is पकड़कर a cornucopia साथ समृद्धि written below her.
according to the मिनट्स of the New जर्सी सामान्य Assembly for कूच 11, 1896, the date in जिससे the सभा officially approved the flag as the state emblem, the buff रंग is due indirectly to George वॉशिंगटन, who था ordered on October 2, 1779, that the वर्दी coats of the New जर्सी महाद्वीपीय लकीर be dark ( Jersey ) blue, साथ buff facings.
Buff-colored facings had until तब been सुरक्षित only लिये उसके अपना uniform और those of other महाद्वीपीय generals और their aides.
तब, on फ़रवरी 28, 1780, the महाद्वीपीय War अधिकारियों in Philadelphia निर्देशित कि the uniform कोट facings of all regiments यहूद to be the same as the पृष्ठभूमि color of the regiments ' state ध्वज.
the मुहर is described in नई Jersey statute Title 52, §2-1:
`` we Can कार्य It आउट '' is a सोंग by the बीटल्स, लिखा by Paul mccartney और John Lennon.
It थी released as a `` दोगुना a-sided `` सिंगल with `` Day tripper ``, the first समय both पहलू of a सिंगल were so designated in an initial रिलीज.
दोनो songs were अंकित दौरान the Rubber आत्मा सत्र.
the song is an उदाहरण of lennon–mccartney सहयोग at a गहराई that happened only rarely after वे लिखा the hit singles of 1963.
This सोंग, `` A Day in the जीवन ``, `` baby, तुम 're a समृद्ध man `` और `` I 've मिला a Feeling ``, are among the notable अपवाद.
As a medical निदान, pedophilia or paedophilia is a psychiatric विकार in व्यक्तियों 16 सालो of age or older typically characterized by a प्राथमिक or विशेष sexual ब्याज toward prepubescent children ( generally age 11 years or younger, though विशिष्ट निदान मापदण्ड लिये the विकार extends the cut-off पाइंट for prepubescence to age 13 ).
an adolescent who is 16 सालो of age or older जरूर be at least पाँच सालो older than the prepubescent चाइल्ड पहले the attraction can be diagnosed as pedophilia.
The term रै a दायरा of परिभाषाएं, as found in psychiatry, psychology, the vernacular, और law enforcement.
The International Classification of रोगों ( ICD ) defines pedophilia as a `` disorder of वयस्क व्यक्तित्व और आचरण '' in which there is a sexual preference for children of prepubertal or जल्दी pubertal आयु.
According to the Diagnostic और Statistical Manual of दिमागी Disorders ( DSM ), it is a paraphilia in which वयस्कों or adolescents 16 सालो of आयु or पुरानी have intense and तूल sexual urges towards and कल्पनाओं परिचय prepubescent children कि वे have either acted on or which cause them distress or interpersonal परेशानी.
In popular usage, pedophilia means कोई यौन ब्याज in children or the अधिनियम of child यौन abuse, प्रायः termed `` pedophilic बर्ताव ''.
लिये example, The अमरीकी Heritage stedman 's चिकित्सा शब्दकोष राज्य, `` Pedophilia is the अधिनियम or fantasy on the part of an adult of engaging in sexual activity with a चाइल्ड or children. ''
इस आम use application भी extends to the sexual ब्याज in and यौन सम्पर्क साथ pubescent or post-pubescent नाबालिग.
Researchers recommend that ये imprecise uses be avoided क्युकी although लोगों who commit चाइल्ड यौन abuse commonly प्रदर्शनी the विकार, कुछ offenders do नहीं meet the clinical निदान standards for pedophilia और these मानकों pertain to prepubescents.
additionally, नहीं सब pedophiles actually कमिट such abuse.
Pedophilia was first formally recognized and नामित in the लेट 19th सदी.
a significant राशि of शोध in the area रै लिया प्लेस since the 1980s.
हालांकि ज़्यादातर documented in मेन, there हैं भी महिलाओं who प्रदर्शनी the विकार, और researchers assume उपलब्धियाँ estimates underrepresent the true number of female pedophiles.
no cure लिये pedophilia has been developed, लकिन there are therapies that can reduce the incidence of a व्यक्ति committing चाइल्ड यौन गाली.
in the संयुक्त States, following कान्सास v. Hendricks, sex अपराधियों who are diagnosed साथ निश्चित mental विकार, particularly pedophilia, can be विषय to indefinite सिविल प्रतिबद्धता, under various राज्य कानून ( generically called SVP कानून ) और the संघीय आदम Walsh चाइल्ड सुरक्षा and Safety Act of 2006.
at उपस्थित, the सटीक कल्याणकारी of pedophilia have not महरूम conclusively स्थापित.
Research suggests कि pedophilia may be correlated साथ अनेक अलग neurological abnormalities, and प्रायः co-exists साथ अन्य personality disorders और मनोवैज्ञानिक pathologies.
in the contexts of forensic psychology और law enforcement, a variety of typologies have महरूम सुझाया to categorize pedophiles according to बर्ताव and motivations.
Julio César chávez ( born जूलियो César Chávez gonzález on जुलाई 12, 1962 ) is a retired मैक्सिकन professional boxer.
chávez is माना by अनेक लोगों लिये their खेल statistics the महानतम सेनानी कभी to आइये out of Mexico.
He is a six-time संसार चैंपियन in three weight divisions, and लिये अनेक सालो he was considered one of the बेहतरीन pound-for-pound boxer in the संसार.
In a करियर that spanned over 25 years, Chávez won five संसार शीर्षक in three वज़न divisions : WBC सुपर Featherweight in 1984, WBA Lightweight in 1987, wbc Lightweight in 1988, wbc Light Welterweight in 1989, IBF लाइट Welterweight in 1990, और WBC Light Welterweight in 1994.
he holds records for most successful consecutive defenses of संसार शीर्षक ( 27 ), सबसे title fights ( 37 ), most title-fight victories ( 31 ) और he is बाद जो Louis with ( 23 ) लिये most शीर्षक defenses won by नॉकआउट ( 21 ).
Chávez भी has the longest अपराजित streak in boxing इतिहास, 13 सालो.
His record was 89-0-1 going into his first घाटा to Frankie Randall and had an 87 लड़ो जीत streak until his `` चित्रण '' साथ whitaker.
Julio César Chávez was known लिये उसके बकाया punching शक्ति, विनाशकारी देह attack, remarkably दमदार chin and the अथक stalking of his प्रतिद्वंद्वियों.
He बाँधने # 24 on ईएसपीएन 's 50 महानतम Boxers of All समय.
On December 7, 2010, he थी inducted in the prestigious अंतरराष्ट्रीय मुक्केबाज़ी हॉल of कीर्ति for the क्लास of 2011.
he is the father of prospect Omar Chávez और former wbc middleweight चैंपियन जूलियो césar Chávez, jr.
`` Selektion `` on the Judenrampe, Auschwitz, May/June 1944.
to be भेजा to the right meant slave labor ; to the left, the गैस chamber.
This चित्र shows the arrival of हंगेरियाई Jews from carpatho-ruthenia, अनेक of them from the berehov ghetto.
the photographer was Ernst Hofmann or बर्नहार्ड वाल्टर of the SS. Image सौजन्य of Yad vashem
the Holocaust ( from the यूनानी ' : hólos, `` whole '' and kaustós, `` burnt '' ) भी ज्ञात as the Shoah ( यहूदी :, hashoah, `` catastrophe '' ; यहूदी :, churben or Hurban, from the यहूदी लिये `` विनाश '' ), थी the mass murder or genocide of लगभग छह million यहूदियों during World War ii, a programme of व्यवस्थित state-sponsored murder by Nazi जर्मनी, led by Adolf Hitler और the नाजी Party, throughout German-occupied territory.
of the नौ million Jews जो had resided in Europe before the holocaust, लगभग two-thirds यहूद killed.
Over एक लाख यहूदी children were मारे in the Holocaust, as were approximately दो million यहूदी महिलाओं and तीन लाख यहूदी men.
A network of over 40,000 facilities in Germany and German-occupied territory were used to concentrate, थाम, and मार यहूदियों और other victims.
Some विद्वानों argue that the द्रव्यमान murder of the Romani and लोगों with disabilities should be शामिल in the definition, और some उपयोग the common संज्ञा `` holocaust '' to describe अन्य नाजी द्रव्यमान murders, सहित those of Soviet prisoners of युद्ध, Polish और Soviet civilians, और homosexuals.
हाल estimates आधारित on figures प्राप्त since the पतन of the Soviet Union indicates कुछ टेन to ग्यारह million नागरिकों और बंदियों of war were intentionally murdered by the नाजी regime.
the persecution और genocide यहूद carried out in चरण.
विभिन्न laws to हटाएँ the यहूदियों इससे सिविल society, सबसे prominently the Nuremberg कानून, यहूद enacted in जर्मनी years before the outbreak of संसार युद्ध II.
Concentration camps were established in which inmates were subjected to slave labor until वे died of exhaustion or बीमारी.
Where Germany conquered new territory in पूर्वी यूरोपीय, specialized इकाई called Einsatzgruppen murdered Jews और political opponents in द्रव्यमान shootings.
the occupiers required यहूदियों and romani to be confined in overcrowded ghettos पहले होने transported by भाड़ा train to extermination शिविरों where, if वे survived the यात्रा, most यहूद systematically killed in गैस कक्षों.
प्रत्येक arm of जर्मनी 's अफसरशाही was शामिल in the लोजिस्टिक्स कि led to the genocides, turning the Third reich into कया एक Holocaust विद्वान has called `` a genocidal राज्य ''.
4-H in the संयुक्त States is a youth organization administered by the नेशनल Institute of खाना और कृषि of the United राज्य विभाग of कृषि ( यूएसडीए ), साथ the मिशन of `` engaging youth to reach their fullest potential जबकि advancing the फ़ील्ड of युवावस्था विकास. ''
the नाम represents चार personal development क्षेत्रों of फ़ोकस for the संगठन : सिर, दिल, हैंड्स, and स्वास्थ्य.
the संगठन has over 6.5 million members in the संयुक्त राज्य, from आयु पाँच to twenty-one, in लगभग 90,000 क्लब.
the goal of 4-h is to develop citizenship, leadership, जिम्मेदारी and जीवन कौशल of youth through experiential सीखना कार्यक्रम and a positive youth विकास approach.
हालांकि typically विचार of as an agriculturally केन्द्रित organization as a result of its इतिहास, 4-H today focuses on citizenship, healthy living, science, अभियान्त्रिकी, and प्रौद्योगिकी कार्यक्रम.
आज, 4-h and सम्बन्धित कार्यक्रम मौजूद in over अस्सी countries around the world ; the संगठन और administration varies from country to country.
प्रत्येक of these programs operates independently, but cooperatively through अंतरराष्ट्रीय exchanges, वैश्विक शिक्षा programs, and संचार.
The 4-h motto is `` to मेक the best better '', जबकि its स्लोगन is `` Learn by doing '' ( sometimes लिखा as `` सीख to do by doing '' ).
The national flag of चिली, consists of two गैरबराबरी आड़ा bands of श्वेत और red and a ब्लू square the same height as the white band in the कैण्टन, जिससे bears a श्वेत five-pointed स्टार in the बीच.
It was adopted on 18 October 1817.
the Chilean ध्वज is भी ज्ञात in स्पेनी as La estrella solitaria ( The Lone Star ).
The star represents a guide to progress और honor ; blue symbolizes the आसमान और the प्रशांत Ocean, श्वेत is for the snow-covered Andes, and रेड stands लिये the blood spilled to achieve स्वतंत्रता.
according to the एपिक कविता la araucana, the रंगों were निकला from those from the ध्वज flown by the Mapuche दौरान the Arauco War.
`` Flag दिन '' is held each year on the नवीं of July to commemorate the 77 soldiers who died in the 1882 Battle of la Concepción.
Generation Y, also ज्ञात as the Millennial Generation, is the demographic दल following Generation X.
वहीँ are no precise तिथियाँ लिये when पीढी Y starts and ends.
टीकाकारों उपयोग शुरूआत birth dates इससे the latter 1970s, or from the early 1980s to the early 2000s.
the Torches of नीरो, by henryk siemiradzki.
According to tacitus, नीरो targeted ईसाइयों as those responsible लिये the आग.
the Great Fire of रोम ( ) थी an शहरी आग that occurred beginning 19 जुलाई ad 64.
Virginia ( ), officially the Commonwealth of Virginia, is a U.S. राज्य located in the दक्षिण Atlantic region of the United States.
Virginia is nicknamed the `` बूढ़ा डोमिनियन '' और the `` माँ of Presidents '' बाद the आठ U.S. राष्ट्रपतियों born there.
The भूगोल and जलवायु of the राष्ट्रमंडल हैं तराशा by the ब्लू Ridge Mountains and the Chesapeake खाड़ी, जिससे provide आवास लिये much of its फ्लोरा and fauna.
the पूंजी of the Commonwealth is Richmond ; और वर्जिनिया बीच is the सबसे populous city.
फेयरफैक्स काउंटी is the most populous राजनैतिक subdivision.
The wealthiest is Loudoun County.
The राष्ट्रमंडल 's population is over eight million.
the area 's history begins साथ अनेक indigenous समूह, including the Powhatan.
In 1607 the लंदन कम्पनी established the उपनिवेश of Virginia as the first स्थाई नई संसार अंग्रेज़ी उपनिवेश.
स्लेव labor and the land acquired from displaced Native American जनजातियों each played a significant भूमिका in the colony 's जल्दी politics and वृक्षारोपण economy.
वर्जिनिया थी एक of the 13 colonies in the American Revolution और joined the confederacy in the American Civil युद्ध, during जिससे Richmond was बना the confederate पूंजी and Virginia 's northwestern counties seceded to रूप the state of West वर्जिनिया.
हालांकि the राष्ट्रमंडल थी under रूढ़िवादी single-party नियम for nearly a century following Reconstruction, दोनो प्रमुख national parties are competitive in आधुनिक Virginia.
The वर्जिनिया सामान्य Assembly is the oldest legislature in the पश्चिमी Hemisphere.
The राज्य सरकारी रै महरूम repeatedly क्रमित सबसे effective by the Pew Center on the राज्य.
it is अद्वितीय in कैसा it treats cities and काउंटी equally, manages local सड़कें, और prohibits इसके governors from serving consecutive शर्तें.
वर्जिनिया 's economy has अनेक sectors : कृषि in the Shenandoah Valley ; संघीय agencies in उत्तरी Virginia, including the headquarters of the विभाग of Defense and CIA ; and military सुविधाएं in हैम्पटन सड़कें, the site of the region 's प्रमुख seaport.
Virginia 's पब्लिक schools और many कॉलेजों and universities have contributed to growing मीडिया and technology सेक्टर.
As a result, computer चिप्स have become the state 's leading export.
खिड़कियाँ Movie मेकर ( formerly known as खिड़कियाँ सजीव फिल्म मेकर, codenamed sundance ) is a freeware video editing software by Microsoft.
It is a part of Windows Essentials software suite and offers the ability to बनाएँ and edit videos as well as to प्रकाशित उन्हें on SkyDrive, फेसबुक, youtube, and Flickr.
`` ब्रेंडा 's Got A Baby '' is the solo डेब्यू सिंगल by तुपाक shakur, and दसवाँ track इससे उसके डेब्यू एल्बम, 2Pacalypse Now.
the song, which features r & B singer Dave Hollister, is परिचय a twelve year-old girl named Brenda who जीवनदान in a ghetto, रै a baby, और is incapable of supporting it.
the सोंग explores the issue of teen गर्भावस्था and its effect on the young mothers and उनके परिवारों.
Like many of shakur 's गीतों, `` Brenda 's मिला a baby '' draws from the दुर्दशा of the impoverished.
using ब्रेंडा to represent यंग माताओं in general, Shakur criticises the कम स्तर of support from the baby 's पिता, the सरकारी, and समाज in सामान्य.
shakur लिखा the सोंग when he read a समाचारपत्र आलेख परिचय a twelve-year-old girl जो मिला गर्भवती from her cousin और, क्युकी वो did नहीं want उसके अभिभावक to जान about the baby, threw it in a कचरा can.
The official लोगो of पोकीमॉन लिये its international रिलीज ; `` पोकीमॉन '' is छोटी लिये the original Japanese शीर्षक of `` Pocket राक्षस ''.
is a मीडिया मताधिकार प्रकाशित और स्वामित्व by जापानी वीडियो game कम्पनी Nintendo and निर्मित by सातोशी Tajiri in 1996.
Originally released as a जोड़ी of interlinkable Game लड़के role-playing video खेल developed by Game Freak, पोकीमॉन has since become the second-most कामयाब और lucrative वीडियो game-based media franchise in the संसार, पीछे only निन्टेंडो 's अपना Mario मताधिकार.
पोकीमॉन properties have since been merchandised into दुश्मनी, manga, trading cards, toys, books, और अन्य media.
the franchise celebrated in 2006, और, cumulative बिक्री of the video खेल ( सहित home console संस्करण, ऐसे as the `` Pikachu '' Nintendo 64 ) have पहुँचे अधिक than 200 million copies.
In नवम्बर 2005, 4kids Entertainment, which had managed the non-game सम्बन्धित लाइसेंसिंग of पोकीमॉन, घोषित कि it था agreed नहीं to नवीनीकृत the Pokémon representation अनुबंध.
Pokémon यूएसए inc. ( अभी The पोकीमॉन Company International ), a subsidiary of Japan 's पोकीमॉन Co., अभी oversees all Pokémon licensing बाहर of Asia.
The name Pokémon is the romanized संकुचन of the जापानी brand.
The पद Pokémon, in addition to referring to the Pokémon मताधिकार itself, भी collectively refers to the 649 fictional प्रजाति कि have बना appearances in Pokémon media as of the रिलीज of the पांचवां generation शीर्षक Pokémon ब्लैक 2 and श्वेत 2 ; with the upcoming releases of पोकीमॉन X और Y, 6 नई Pokémon have महरूम प्रदर्शित in प्रचार for the games.
`` Pokémon '' is identical in दोनो the singular and plural, as is each व्यक्तिगत प्रजाति नाम ; it is grammatically सही to कह `` एक Pokémon '' और `` अनेक Pokémon '', as well as `` एक pikachu `` और `` अनेक pikachu ''.
कवर of the पहला edition of the publication दादा by Tristan Tzara ; ज्यूरिख, 1917
दादा ( ) or Dadaism थी an art गति of the European avant-garde in the early 20th century.
Many अर्जी Dada began in Zurich, Switzerland in 1916, spreading to बर्लिन shortly thereafter लकिन the ऊँचाई of नई यॉर्क दादा was the year before in 1915.
to quote डोना budd 's The Language of Art ज्ञान, Dada was born out of negative reaction to the horrors of World War i.
This international गति थी begun by a समूह of कलाकार and कवियों associated साथ the कैबरे वोल्टेयर in Zurich.
Dada अस्वीकृत reason and लॉजिक, prizing बकवास, irrationality और अंतर्ज्ञान.
the origin of the name दादा is unclear ; some believe that it is a nonsensical word.
Others maintain कि it originates इससे the Romanian artists Tristan tzara और Marcel Janco 's frequent उपयोग of the शब्द da, da, अर्थ यस, यस in the Romanian language.
another सिद्धान्त says that the नाम `` Dada '' आए during a बैठक of the समूह when a paper चाकू stuck into a french-german शब्दकोष happened to पाइंट to 'डैडa ', a French शब्द लिये 'hobbyhorse '.
the movement primarily involved visual कला, literature, poetry, art manifestoes, आर्ट सिद्धान्त, theatre, और ग्राफिक design, and concentrated इसके anti-war politics through a rejection of the प्रचलित मानकों in art through anti-art cultural works.
in addition to being anti-war, दादा थी also anti- bourgeois and था political affinities साथ the कट्टरपंथी left.
दादा activities शामिल पब्लिक महफिलों, demonstrations, और प्रकाशन of art/literary जर्नल्स ; passionate कवरेज of आर्ट, राजनीती, and संस्कृति were विषय often discussed in a variety of मीडिया.
Key figures in the movement शामिल ह्यूगो बॉल, एमी hennings, Hans arp, Raoul hausmann, हन्ना Höch, Johannes baader, Tristan tzara, Francis Picabia, रिचर्ड huelsenbeck, Georg Grosz, जॉन heartfield, Marcel Duchamp, Beatrice लकडी, Kurt Schwitters, and Hans Richter, among others.
the movement influenced later शैलियाँ like the avant-garde और शहर म्यूज़िक आंदोलनों, और groups सहित surrealism, देवानंद réalisme, pop आर्ट and fluxus.
दादा is the groundwork to abstract आर्ट और ध्वनि poetry, a starting पाइंट लिये प्रदर्शन आर्ट, a prelude to postmodernism, an influence on पॉप art, a जश्न of antiart to be later embraced for anarcho-political uses in the 1960s और the movement कि lay the न्यास लिये surrealism.
First trophic level.
the पौधे in इस image, and the शैवाल and phytoplankton in the झील, are प्राथमिक producers.
They लो nutrients from the soil or the जल, और manufacture उनके own खाना by photosynthesis, using energy इससे the सूर्य.
the trophic स्तर of an सजीव is the स्थिति it occupies in a food chain.
The शब्द trophic derives इससे the यूनानी τροφή ( trophē ) referring to खाना or feeding.
a food कड़ी represents a उत्तराधिकार of organisms कि eat another सजीव और are, in turn, eaten themselves.
The क्रमांक of कदम an सजीव is from the प्रारंभ of the कड़ी is a measure of इसके trophic स्तर.
Food जंजीरों start at trophic स्तर 1 साथ primary निर्माता such as plants, मूव to herbivores at स्तर 2, परभक्षी at level 3 और typically finish with carnivores or apex predators at level 4 or 5.
The पाथ साथ the कड़ी can form either a one-way flow, or a खाना `` वेब. ''
Ecological communities with higher biodiversity form more complex trophic राहें.
चार of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण domesticated silk moths.
शीर्ष to नीचे : Bombyx mori, Hyalophora cecropia, antheraea pernyi, Samia cynthia.
From मेयर्स konversations-lexikon ( 1885-1892 )
A silk-producing raspy क्रिकेट.
Silk is a natural प्रोटीन fibre, some फ़ॉर्म of जिससे can be woven into वस्त्र.
The protein fibre of रेशा is रचित mainly of fibroin और उत्पादित by निश्चित insect larvae to form cocoons.
the best-known type of silk is प्राप्त from the cocoons of the लार्वे of the शहतूत silkworm bombyx mori reared in captivity ( sericulture ).
The shimmering appearance of silk is due to the triangular prism -like ढांचा of the silk fibre, जिससे allows silk cloth to refract incoming light at अलग angles, thus producing different colors.
silks are उत्पादित by अनेक other कीट, लकिन generally तभी the silk of moth caterpillars has महरूम used लिये textile manufacturing.
There रै been some research into other silks, which differ at the आणविक स्तर.
अनेक silks are मुख्यतः produced by the लार्वे of insects undergoing पूरा metamorphosis, लकिन कुछ वयस्क कीट ऐसे as webspinners उपज silk, and some insects ऐसे as raspy crickets उपज रेशा throughout उनके जीवनदान.
Silk production भी occurs in Hymenoptera ( bees, wasps, and चींटियों ), silverfish, mayflies, thrips, leafhoppers, beetles, lacewings, fleas, flies and midges.
अन्य types of सन्धिपाद produce रेशा, most notably विभिन्न arachnids ऐसे as मकड़ियों ( देखिए मकड़ी रेशा ).
Late Show साथ David Letterman is an अमरीकी late-night talk दिखाएँ hosted by David लेटरमैन on CBS.
The दिखाएँ debuted on अगस्त 30, 1993, and is उत्पादित by लेटरमैन 's production कम्पनी, विश्वव्यापी पैंट Incorporated.
the show 's म्यूज़िक निदेशक और band-leader of the हाउस band, the CBS Orchestra, is Paul shaffer.
The head लेखक is Matt रॉबर्ट्स and the उद्घोषक is एलन Kalter.
Of the प्रमुख u.S. late-night कार्यक्रम, Late दिखाएँ ranks second in संचयी average दर्शक over time and third in क्रमांक of episodes over समय.
The दिखाएँ लीड अन्य लेट night shows in ad revenue साथ $ 271 million in 2009.
In सबसे u.S. markets the दिखाएँ airs at 11:35 p.m. eastern/pacific समय, but is अंकित Monday through बुधवार at 4:30 p.m., और Thursdays at 3:30 p.m और 6:00 p.m.
The दूसरी गुरुवार एपीसोड प्रायः airs on Friday of that सप्ताह.
In 2002, लेट दिखाएँ with David Letterman was क्रमित No. 7 on tv Guide 's 50 महानतम tv shows of सब Time.
सीबीएस रै a अनुबंध साथ विश्वव्यापी Pants to continue the दिखाएँ through 2014 ; by then, Letterman होगा surpass जॉनी Carson as the longest tenured late-night talk show host.
the Real Housewives of Orange काउंटी is an American reality documentary टेलीविज़न program on ब्रावो, set in नारंगी काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
it was the first The रियल housewives program in the series.
The श्रेणी is a voyeuristic look into the धनवान lives of ये housewives, as they shop, मिलेंगी plastic सर्जरी, gossip, fight और सजीव lavishly.
the financial crisis, the शुरूआत of which coincided लगभग exactly साथ the first season 's ब्रॉडकास्ट, रै since trimmed the housewives ' lifestyles साथ job नुकसान, evictions, बंधक defaults, foreclosures, और marital stress—all recorded in progressive सीज़न of the दिखाएँ.
cyberstalking is the उपयोग of the Internet or other इलेक्ट्रॉनिक अर्थात् to stalk or harass an व्यक्तिगत, a समूह of individuals, or an संगठन.
It may शामिल the making of गलत आरोपों or statements of fact ( as in defamation ), निगरानी, making threats, पहचान चोरी, damage to data or equipment, the solicitation of minors for sex, or gathering information कि may be used to harass.
the definition of `` उत्पीड़न '' must मिलें the मानदंड that a reasonable person, in कब्ज़ा of the same information, होता लिहाज़ it as sufficient to कारण another उचित person तकलीफ.
Cyberstalking is different from स्थानिक or ऑफ़लाइन stalking in कि it occurs through the use of electronic communications technology such as the internet.
however, it sometimes leads to it, or is accompanied by it.
Both are criminal offenses.
cyberstalking shares महत्वपूर्ण विशेषताएँ साथ offline stalking.
Many stalkers – online or off – हैं motivated by a ख्वाहिश to कंट्रोल उनके पीड़ितों.
A cyberstalker may be an ऑनलाइन stranger or a व्यक्ति whom the निशाना knows.
A cyberstalker may be anonymous and may solicit involvement of अन्य लोगों online जो do not even know the target.
cyberstalking is a criminal offense that आता into खेल under राज्य anti-stalking laws, बदनामी laws, और उत्पीड़न laws.
a cyberstalking conviction can परिणाम in a restraining अनुक्रम, probation, or even criminal penalties against the assailant, सहित कारावास.
a business अक्षर is usually used when लिखने from एक कम्पनी to another, or लिये पत्राचार between such संगठन और उनके ग्राहक, clients और other बाह्य पार्टियों.
The overall style of letter will depend on the relationship between the parties चिंतित.
वहीँ are अनेक reasons to लिखें a कारोबार अक्षर.
it could be to request direct information or action इससे another पार्टी, to अनुक्रम आपूर्तियाँ from a प्रदायक, to identify a mistake that was committed, to जवाब directly to a request, to apologize for a ग़लत or simply to convey goodwill.
भी आज, the business अक्षर is स्टिल बहुत उपयोगी क्युकी it produces a स्थाई रिकार्ड, is confidential, formal and delivers persuasive, well-considered messages.
tilapia ( ) is the आम name for nearly a hundred species of cichlid fish from the tilapiine cichlid जनजाति.
tilapia हैं mainly freshwater fish, inhabiting उथले स्ट्रीम, तालाबों, rivers and lakes, and कम commonly found living in brackish जल.
historically, they have महरूम of major महत्व in artisan फ़िशिंग in Africa और the Levant, and are of increasing महत्व in aquaculture.
tilapia can become समस्यापूर्ण invasive प्रजाति in new warm-water habitats, whether deliberately or accidentally introduced, लकिन generally not in शीतोष्ण climates due to उनके अक्षमता to जीवित in कूलर waters नीचे about.
टर्नर & Hooch is a 1989 कॉमेडी drama अपराधों film अभिनीत tom हैंक्स और Beasley the Dog as the eponymous वर्ण, Turner और hooch respectively.
the film also सितारों घोड़ी winningham, क्रेग T. Nelson, और Reginald veljohnson.
it थी directed by Roger spottiswoode ; the फिल्मी थी originally slated to be निर्देशित by हेनरी winkler, but he थी terminated due to `` creative मतभेद ''.
It थी co-written by माइकल Blodgett इससे परे the घाटी of the डॉल fame.
Although k-9 ( with James belushi ) थी released prior to इस film ( exactly three months earlier ), टर्नर & hooch became more popular और seemingly overshadowed इसके greater success, even हालांकि k-9 had a बहुत similar प्लाट.
a pilot लिये a Turner & Hooch TV श्रेणी थी बना और भागा as a भाग of the जादुई संसार of डिज़्नी.
This is a सूची of Israeli airports, sorted by स्थान.
Entrance to ovda Airport
Terminal 3 at Ben Gurion
प्लेन landing at Be'er sheva ( teyman )
Eilat विमानक्षेत्र
एडोल्फ हिटलर ( ; 20 अप्रैल 1889 – 30 April 1945 ) was an Austrian -born जर्मनी politician and the नेता of the Nazi पार्टी ( ( NSDAP ) ; नेशनल समाजवादी जर्मनी Workers Party ).
He was chancellor of जर्मनी इससे 1933 to 1945 और तानाशाह of नाजी Germany ( as Führer und reichskanzler ) इससे 1934 to 1945.
हिटलर was at the centre of नाजी Germany, संसार युद्ध ii in यूरोपीय, and the Holocaust.
Hitler थी a सजा veteran of World युद्ध i.
he joined the German मजदूर ' Party ( precursor of the NSDAP ) in 1919, और became नेता of the nsdap in 1921.
in 1923, he attempted a coup d'état in म्यूनिख, ज्ञात as the Beer Hall Putsch.
the विफल coup resulted in Hitler 's imprisonment, दौरान जिससे समय he wrote his संस्मरण, mein Kampf ( my संघर्ष ).
After his release in 1924, हिटलर gained लोकप्रिय support by attacking the Treaty of versailles and promoting pan-germanism, antisemitism, and anti-communism साथ charismatic oratory and नाजी propaganda.
बाद उसके appointment as चांसलर in 1933, he transformed the Weimar गणतंत्र into the Third reich, a single-party dictatorship based on the totalitarian and autocratic ideology of नात्सीवाद.
हिटलर 's aim was to स्थापित a नई Order of absolute नाजी German hegemony in continental Europe.
To इस end, his विदेशी और domestic नीतियों had the उद्देश्य of seizing lebensraum ( `` living space '' ) लिये the Germanic लोगों.
he निर्देशित the rearmament of Germany and the आक्रमण of कैंडल by the wehrmacht in September 1939, resulting in the outbreak of World युद्ध II in Europe.
Under Hitler 's rule, in 1941 जर्मनी forces and their European allies occupied most of Europe and उत्तर Africa.
In 1943, जर्मनी था महरूम forced onto the defensive and suffered a श्रेणी of escalating defeats.
In the फाइनल days of the युद्ध, दौरान the बैटल of Berlin in 1945, Hitler married his long-time partner, एवा braun.
On 30 April 1945, less than two days बाद, the दो वचनबद्ध suicide to avoid capture by the रेड Army, और their corpses यहूद burned.
हिटलर 's aggressive foreign policy is माना the प्रमुख cause of the outbreak of World War II in यूरोपीय.
His antisemitic नीतियों and racially motivated विचारधारा resulted in the मौतों of at तनिक 5.5 million यहूदियों, and लाखो of अन्य people deemed racially अवर.
thumb
A डोमेन name is an पहचान string कि defines a realm of प्रशासनिक स्वायत्तता, प्राधिकार, or control on the Internet.
Domain names are formed by the rules और प्रक्रियाओं of the Domain Name System ( डीएनएस ).
Technically, any नाम पंजीकृत in the DNS is a domain नाम.
Domain names हैं प्रयुक्त in various networking contexts and application-specific नामकरण और addressing उद्देश्य.
In general, a डोमेन name represents an Internet प्रोटोकॉल ( ip ) संसाधन, ऐसे as a निजी computer used to access the अंतरजाल, a सर्वर computer hosting a वेब site, or the वेब साईट itself or any other service communicated via the अंतरजाल.
डोमेन names हैं organized in subordinate levels ( subdomains ) of the DNS रूट डोमेन, which is nameless.
the first-level set of डोमेन names हैं the top-level domains ( tlds ), सहित the जेनेरिक top-level domains ( gtlds ), ऐसे as the prominent डोमेन com, सूचना, net and org, and the देश कोड top-level डोमेन ( ccTLDs ).
Below ये top-level डोमेन in the डीएनएस पदानुक्रम हैं the second-level and third-level डोमेन names that हैं typically open लिये रिज़र्वेशन by end-users जो wish to कनेक्ट local क्षेत्रफल networks to the अंतरजाल, बनाएँ other publicly accessible अंतरजाल resources or run वेब साइट.
The registration of these डोमेन names is प्रायः administered by domain name registrars who बेचें their services to the पब्लिक.
A fully योग्य domain name ( FQDN ) is a domain नाम कि is completely specified in the पदानुक्रम of the डीएनएस, having no omitted parts.
डोमेन names are usually written in lowercase, हालांकि labels in the डोमेन नाम प्रणाली हैं case-insensitive.
नाइट्रेट is a polyatomic आयन with the आणविक formula no3− और a आणविक mass of 62.0049 g/mol. nitrates भी describe the सशुल्क functional समूह RONO2.
These nitrate esters हैं a specialized क्लास of विस्फोटक.
a wheat कटाई in idaho
This photo इससे a 1921 encyclopedia shows a ट्रैक्टर ploughing a क्रॉप field.
कृषि is a major industry in the संयुक्त States और the देश is a net exporter of food.
as of the last census of कृषि in 2007, there were 2.2 million खेतो, covering an क्षेत्रफल of, an average of प्रति फार्म.
हालांकि agricultural activity occurs in most states, it is particularly concentrated in the विशाल expanse of चपटा, arable land ज्ञात as the ग्रेट Plains, which encompasses the central प्रदेश of the nation.
the mpemba effect, नामित after Tanzanian छात्र Erasto Mpemba, is the assertion कि warmer water can freeze faster than colder जल.
हालांकि वहीँ is anecdotal support लिये the effect, there is no agreement on exactly कया the effect is and अंतर्गत what हालातों it occurs.
There have महरूम रिपोर्ट्स of समान phenomena since ancient times, although with insufficient विवरण लिये the दावा to be replicated.
the घटना seems contrary to ऊष्मागतिकी, लकिन a क्रमांक of संभावित explanations for the effect have महरूम प्रस्तावित.
further investigations होगा need to decide on a precise परिभाषा of `` freezing '' and control a विशाल क्रमांक of starting पैरामीटर्स in order to confirm or explain the effect.
the siamese (, ) is one of the पहला distinctly पहचाना breeds of Oriental बिल्ली.
the नस्ल originated in थाईलैंड ( formerly ज्ञात as सियाम ), जहाँ वे are एक of अनेक देशी breeds and are पुकारा wichian mat ( วิเชียรมาศ, a नाम अर्थ `` चंद्रमा डायमंड '' ).
in the 20th सदी the Siamese cat became one of the सबसे popular breeds in यूरोपीय और उत्तर अमेरिका.
विशेषता खाना Centers ( QFC ) is a supermarket कड़ी based in Bellevue, वॉशिंगटन, साथ 64 stores in the puget Sound region of वॉशिंगटन state और in the Portland, Oregon महानगर क्षेत्रफल.
in economics, the money सप्लाई or money stock, is the कुल amount of मौद्रिक assets उपलब्धियाँ in an अर्थव्यवस्था at a specific time.
वहीँ हैं अनेक ways to define `` धन, '' लकिन मानक measures प्रायः शामिल करेंसी in परिसंचरण और माँग जमा ( जमाकर्ताओं ' easily accessed assets on the books of financial संस्थानों ).
धन supply data are अंकित and प्रकाशित, प्रायः by the government or the central bank of the country.
पब्लिक और private सेक्टर विश्लेषकों have long monitored changes in money सप्लाई क्युकी of its effects on the price level, inflation, the एक्सचेंज रेट और the कारोबार cycle.
That संबंध between धन और prices is historically associated साथ the मात्रा सिद्धान्त of money.
वहीँ is दमदार अनुभवजन्य evidence of a direct संबंध between money-supply विकास and long-term दाम inflation, at least for रैपिड increases in the amount of धन in the economy.
कि is, a country such as ज़िम्बाब्वे which देखी rapid increases in इसके धन सप्लाई also saw रैपिड increases in prices ( hyperinflation ).
इस is one reason for the रिलायंस on monetary policy as a means of controlling महंगाई.
the nature of इस causal कड़ी is the विषय of contention.
Some शास्त economists argue that the धन सप्लाई is endogenous ( determined by the workings of the अर्थव्यवस्था, not by the सेंट्रल bank ) and कि the स्त्रोत of महंगाई जरूर be मिला in the distributional ढांचा of the अर्थव्यवस्था.
in जोड, those economists seeing the सेंट्रल बैंको 's कंट्रोल over the money supply as feeble कह कि वहीँ are दो कमजोर links between the विकास of the धन सप्लाई and the inflation रेट.
पहला, in the aftermath of a मंदी, when अनेक resources हैं underutilized, an बढ़ाएँ in the धन सप्लाई can कारण a sustained बढ़ाएँ in real उत्पादन बजाय of inflation.
Second, if the velocity of धन, i.e., the अनुपात between nominal GDP and धन supply, परिवर्तन, an बढ़ाएँ in the money सप्लाई could have either no प्रभाव, an अतिरंजित प्रभाव, or an unpredictable प्रभाव on the विकास of nominal GDP.
लोगो लिये imax.
Warren थिएटर IMAX cinema, wichita, कान्सास, USA, 601 सीटे.
A comparison between 35 mm and 15/70 mm negative areas.
imax ( an abbreviation लिये चित्र अधिकतम ) is a गति picture फिल्मी format and a set of सिनेमा projection standards created by the कनाडाई company imax निगम.
IMAX has the capacity to रिकार्ड and प्रदर्शक बिंब of दूर greater size and रेज़ोल्यूशन than conventional फिल्मी प्रणालियों.
चूंकि 2002, कुछ feature films have been परिवर्तित ( or upgraded ) into imax स्वरूप for प्रदर्शक in imax थिएटर and कुछ have भी महरूम partially शॉट in imax.
IMAX is the सबसे widely used प्रणाली लिये special-venue फिल्मी प्रस्तुतियों.
, वहीँ are 697 imax थिएटर in 52 देशों.
आज 's खास is a Canadian children 's टेलीविज़न show produced by Clive VanderBurgh at TVOntario from 1981 to 1987.
It भी भागा on Nickelodeon and the Faith और Values Channel/Odyssey ( now the Hallmark Channel ) as खूब as many pbs stations throughout the संयुक्त States.
It थी नियत in a विभाग store, आधारित on the flagship स्थान of the now defunct सिम्पसन 's in Toronto.
Many sequences लिये it यहूद shot at the Queen गली West and Yonge गली store बाद घंटों.
Constitutionalism, in its सबसे सामान्य अर्थ, is `` a complex of ideas, attitudes, और पैटर्न of behavior elaborating the principle कि the authority of government derives from और is सीमित by a देह of आधारभूत विधि ''.
A राजनैतिक organization is constitutional to the extent कि it `` contain [ s ] institutionalized mechanisms of शक्ति कंट्रोल for the सुरक्षा of the interests और liberties of the citizenry, including those that may be in the अल्पसंख्यक ``.
as वर्णित by political वैज्ञानिक और संवैधानिक विद्वान दाउद Fellman :
An ice-cream headache, also known as दिमाग freeze, cold-stimulus headache, or इसके दिए वैज्ञानिक नाम sphenopalatine ganglioneuralgia ( अर्थ `` nerve pain of the sphenopalatine गंडिका `` ), is a form of ब्रैड cranial pain or headache commonly संबद्ध with consumption ( particularly जल्दी consumption ) of cold beverages or भोजन ऐसे as बर्फ मलाई और बर्फ चबूतरे.
it is caused by having something ठंडा टच the roof of the मुँह ( तालु ), और is believed to परिणाम इससे a तंत्रिका जवाब causing रैपिड constriction और swelling of blood बरतन or a `` referring `` of pain इससे the roof of the मुँह to the head.
The रेट of intake for ठंडा भोजन रै been studied as a contributing फ़ैक्टर.
There are लोगों जो can नहीं अनुभव `` brain freeze '' or similar symptoms.
the term ice-cream सिरदर्द has been in use चूंकि at least 31 January 1937, contained in a journal entry by रेबेका timbres published in the 1939 किताब we किया n't ask यूटोपिया : a Quaker परिवार in Soviet रूस.
The first प्रकाशित use of the पद दिमाग फ्रीज, as it pertains to cold-induced headaches, थी on 27 May 1991.
`` auld Lang syne '' ( : note `` s '' rather than `` z '' ) is a स्कॉट्स poem लिखा by Robert Burns in 1788 और नियत to the धुन of a परंपरागत folk सोंग ( roud # 6294 ).
it is खूब ज्ञात in अनेक देशों, especially in the English-speaking संसार ; its traditional उपयोग होने to celebrate the start of the नई Year at the stroke of मध्यरात्रि.
by एक्सटेंशन, it is also सुंग at funerals, graduations और as a विदाई or समाप्ति to other अवसरों.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय Boy स्काउट युवावस्था movement, in many countries, uses it as a close to jamborees और other कृत्यों.
The सोंग 's Scots title may be अनूदित into English वस्तुतः as `` बूढ़ा long चूंकि '', or अधिक idiomatically, `` long long पहले '', `` days gone by '' or `` बूढ़ा times ''.
Consequently `` लिये auld लैंग syne '', as it appears in the first line of the chorus, might be loosely अनूदित as `` for ( the खातिर of ) बूढ़ा टाइम्स ''.
the phrase `` Auld लैंग syne '' is भी प्रयुक्त in similar कविताएं by रॉबर्ट ayton ( 1570–1638 ), allan Ramsay ( 1686–1757 ), और जेम्स वाटसन ( 1711 ) as well as older लोक songs predating burns.
मैथ्यू Fitt uses the phrase `` In the दिनों of auld lang syne '' as the equivalent of `` Once upon a time...
`` in उसके retelling of fairy किस्से in the स्कॉट्स भाषा.
Ben schulz, player of Leeroy Jenkins at BlizzCon 2007
leeroy Jenkins, sometimes misspelled लेरॉय जेनकींस और often elongated with numerous additional अक्षर, is an Internet मीम नामित लिये a player अक्षर created by Ben Schulz in blizzard entertainment 's MMORPG, संसार of Warcraft.
the अक्षर became popular due to a वीडियो of the खेल कि परिचालित around the अंतरजाल.
The घटना रै since स्प्रेड beyond the सीमाएँ of the gaming community into other online और मुख्यधारा media.
ऑस्कर Grant थी fatally shot by बार्ट police officer Johannes Mehserle in Oakland, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, संयुक्त States, in the जल्दी morning hours of नई साल 's Day 2009.
responding to reports of a fight on a crowded Bay Area Rapid पारगमन train returning इससे सैन फ्रांसिस्को, BART Police अधिकारियों detained Oscar ग्रान्ट और अनेक अन्य यात्री on the platform at the fruitvale BART Station.
Officer योहानेस mehserle and another अधिकारी यहूद restraining Grant, who थी prostrate और allegedly resisting arrest.
अधिकारी Mehserle stood and, according to गवाह, said : `` Get back, I 'm gon na tase उसे. ''
Then mehserle खींचा उसके गन and शॉट ग्रान्ट एकबार in the वापस ; Mehserle appeared दंग, put his हैंड्स to उसके head and exclaimed, `` Oh, my परमेश्वर ! ''
During उसके court testimony, Mehserle कहा कि ग्रान्ट तब exclaimed, `` तुम shot me ! ''
Grant turned आउट to be निहत्थे ; he was सुनाया मुर्दे the अगला morning at Highland Hospital in ओकलैंड.
the events यहूद captured on multiple digital वीडियो and cell फोन कैमरे.
the फुटेज was disseminated to media आउटलेट और to various websites, where it was देखी millions of times.
the following days देखी दोनो peaceful और violent protests.
the शूटिंग has been variously labeled an involuntary manslaughter and a सारांश निष्पादन.
on January 13, alameda County prosecutors charged Mehserle with हत्या लिये the शूटिंग.
he resigned his position और pleaded नहीं guilty.
the विचारण began on जून 10, 2010.
Michael rains, Mehserle 's criminal रक्षा attorney, argued कि Mehserle mistakenly shot ग्रान्ट with his पिस्टल, intending to उपयोग his Taser जब he saw ग्रान्ट reaching लिये his waistband.
Pretrial filings argue कि his क्लाएंट did नहीं कमिट first-degree murder और पूछा a लॉस Angeles न्यायधीश to instruct the jury to सीमा its deliberations to either second-degree murder or acquittal.
Oakland civil rights attorney जॉन burris filed a $ 25 लाख wrongful मौत अर्जी विरूद्ध बार्ट on behalf of Grant 's परिवार.
on July 8, 2010, the जूरी returned its verdict : mehserle थी मिला guilty of involuntary manslaughter और नहीं guilty of second-degree murder and voluntary manslaughter.
Initial protests विरूद्ध the सत्ताधारी were शांतिपूर्वक organized ; looting, arson, destruction of property, और छोटी दंगे broke out बाद dark.
nearly 80 people यहूद आखिरकार गिरफ्तार.
On शुक्रवार, जुलाई 9, 2010, the u.S. Justice विभाग opened a civil अधिकारों case विरूद्ध mehserle ; the federal government can prosecute him independently for the वही act अंतर्गत the separate अधिपति एक्सेप्शन to double jeopardy.
the Department of Justice होगा be working साथ the U.S. attorney 's office in San फ्रांसिस्को और the FBI.
on नवम्बर 5, 2010, Mehserle थी sentenced to दो years, ऋण समय परोसा.
he परोसा उसके समय in the लॉस एंजिल्स काउंटी Jail, occupying a private cell away from अन्य बंदियों.
He थी released on June 13, 2011 and is अभी on पैरोल.
Major representatives of the Harlem पुनर्जागरण.
the हार्लेम Renaissance थी a cultural movement कि spanned the 1920s.
at the समय, it थी ज्ञात as the `` नई नीग्रो Movement '', named after the 1925 anthology by alain locke.
Though it थी केन्द्रित in the Harlem पड़ोस of New यॉर्क City, many french-speaking black लेखक from अफ़्रीकी and caribbean colonies who जिया in पेरिस were भी influenced by the Harlem पुनर्जागरण.
the हार्लेम Renaissance is unofficially recognized to have spanned इससे about 1919 जबतक the जल्दी or mid-1930s.
Many of इसके ideas जिया on much longer.
The zenith of this `` flowering of Negro साहित्य '', as James weldon जॉनसन पसन्दीदा to call the Harlem पुनर्जागरण, was placed between 1924 ( the year that अवसर : a जर्नल of Negro जीवन hosted a party लिये ब्लैक लेखक जहाँ many white publishers यहूद in उपस्थिति ) और 1929 ( the साल of the भण्डार मार्केट crash और the beginning of the Great अवसाद ).
अफ़्रीकी States between 500 BCE और 1500 CE
Obelisk at temple of Luxor, Egypt.
c. 1200 BCE.
अफ़्रीकी knight of baguirmi in पूरा padded armour suit.
The इतिहास of Africa begins with the prehistory of अफ़्रीकी और the emergence of होमो sapiens in ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी, continuing into the present as a patchwork of diverse and politically विकासशील स्वदेश states.
Some जल्दी प्रमाण of agriculture in Africa dates इससे 16,000 bce, और metallurgy from परिचय 4000 bce.
the अंकित history of early civilization arose in Egypt, और later in Nubia, the Maghreb और the Horn of Africa.
During the Middle आयु, islam spread through the regions.
Crossing the मग़रिब and the Sahel, a major center of Muslim संस्कृति was Timbuktu.
कुछ notable pre-colonial राज्य और समाजों in Africa शामिल the nok संस्कृति, माली साम्राज्य, ashanti साम्राज्य, Kingdom of Mapungubwe, किंगडम of ज्या, Kingdom of Saloum, किंगडम of baol, Kingdom of ज़िम्बाब्वे, Kingdom of Kongo, Ancient कार्थेज, numidia, mauretania, the अकसूमी साम्राज्य, the ajuuraan राज्य और the Adal Sultanate.
इससे the लेट 15th सदी, europeans and Arabs took slaves इससे West, सेंट्रल and Southeast Africa overseas in the African slave व्यापार.
यूरोपीय colonization of अफ़्रीकी developed rapidly in the हाथापाई लिये अफ़्रीकी of the लेट 19th और जल्दी 20th सदियां.
Following struggles for स्वतंत्रता in many भाग of the महाद्वीप, as खूब as a weakened यूरोपीय बाद the दूसरी World War ; decolonization took place.
अफ़्रीकी 's history has been challenging लिये researchers in the field of African अध्ययन क्युकी of the किल्लत of लिखा sources in विशाल भाग of sub-saharan अफ़्रीकी.
scholarly techniques ऐसे as the रिकॉर्डिंग of मौखिक history, ऐतिहासिक linguistics, archaeology और genetics have been निर्णायक.
curry फोली थी the first player in प्रमुख League बेसबॉल history to hit लिये the cycle.
in baseball, hitting for the साईकिल is the accomplishment of one batter hitting a single, a दोगुना, a triple, and a home चलाएं in the same game.
Collecting the hits in that अनुक्रम is known as a `` natural साईकिल ''.
चक्र are uncommon in प्रमुख League Baseball ( MLB ), and have occurred 294 times चूंकि the first by curry फोली in 1882.
The cycle is roughly as आम as a no-hitter ( 279 आवृत्ति in एमएलबी इतिहास ) ; it रै महरूम पुकारा `` एक of the rarest '' and `` most difficult feats '' in baseball.
आधारित on 2009 अप्रिय स्तर, the संभाव्यता of an average MLB खिलाड़ी hitting for a साईकिल विरूद्ध an औसत टोली in a game is approximately 0.00590 % ; इस corresponds to about 2.5 cycles in a 162-game ऋतु साथ 30 टीमों.
In other बेसबॉल leagues, the cycle is हासिल less frequently.
through September 4, 2008, 62 खिलाड़ी in निप्पन Professional बेसबॉल ( npb ), the top-level baseball organization in जापानी, have hit लिये the साईकिल, the सबसे recent being michihiro ogasawara.
दो players have hit लिये the साईकिल on the same दिन once in NPB इतिहास ; this रै occurred twice in MLB इतिहास.
One npb खिलाड़ी has भी hit for the cycle in an npb all-star खेल.
No खिलाड़ी रै कभी hit for the साईकिल in the MLB all-star खेल or the postseason.
The main स्लेव रूट in medieval अफ़्रीकी.
इस article discusses प्रणालियों, history, और प्रभाव of slavery within Africa.
See अरब slave व्यापार, Atlantic स्लेव trade, Maafa, और गुलामी in contemporary अफ़्रीकी लिये other चर्चाएँ.
`` स्लेव हस्तांतरण in अफ़्रीकी ''.
europeans usually did not डालें the आंतरिक regions.
Slavery in अफ़्रीकी रै existed throughout the महाद्वीप for अनेक centuries, और continues in the वर्तमान day.
Systems of servitude और slavery were आम in अनेक parts of the महाद्वीप, as they were in much of the प्राचीन world.
In सबसे अफ़्रीकी societies where slavery थी प्रचलित, the enslaved लोगों were largely treated as indentured बन्दों and not treated as chattel स्लेव.
When the अरब स्लेव trade and Atlantic slave trade began, many of the local slave systems changed and began supplying captives for स्लेव बाज़ार बाहर of Africa.
गुलामी in ऐतिहासिक Africa was practiced in अनेक different forms और कुछ of these do नहीं clearly fit the परिभाषाएं of slavery elsewhere in the संसार.
Debt slavery, enslavement of युद्ध captives, सैन्य गुलामी, और criminal slavery were all practiced in various भाग of Africa.
Although there had महरूम कुछ trans-saharan trade from the आंतरिक of sub-saharan Africa to अन्य regions, गुलामी थी a छोटी part of the economic जीवन of अनेक societies in Africa जबतक the introduction of transcontinental slave trades ( अरब और अटलांटिक ).
स्लेव practices यहूद again रूपांतरित with यूरोपीय colonization of Africa और the formal abolition of गुलामी in the early 1900s.
खिड़कियाँ कार्य मैनेजर is a task मैनेजर or प्रणाली मॉनिटर अनुप्रयोग शामिल साथ the Microsoft खिड़कियाँ NT family of ऑपरेटिंग systems कि provides सीमित information परिचय computer प्रदर्शन and running अनुप्रयोग, प्रक्रियाओं and CPU उपयोग, commit charge and memory information, संजाल activity and statistics, logged-in उपयोक्ता, and प्रणाली सेवाएं ( and as प्रायः is the मामला साथ software tools provided by Microsoft for Windows, 3rd पार्टी तन्त्र is उपलब्धियाँ which fills the आवश्यकताएँ more thoroughly, e.g, `` Process एक्सप्लोरर '', `` विस्तारित कार्य मैनेजर '', `` Anvir कार्य Manager '', `` Process Hacker '', and `` System Explorer '' ).
the कार्य Manager can भी be used to नियत process priorities, प्रोसेसर affinity, forcibly terminate प्रक्रियाओं, और shut down, restart, hibernate or log बंद इससे Windows.
खिड़कियाँ कार्य Manager थी introduced साथ खिड़कियाँ NT 4.0.
पिछला versions of Windows NT शामिल the Task सूची application, जिससे had far कम सुविधाएँ.
the task list थी capable of लिस्टिंग फिलहाल कार्यशील प्रक्रियाओं और killing them, or बनाना a नई प्रक्रम.
In खिड़कियाँ XP only, a shutdown मेनू is भी present कि allows access to Standby, Hibernate, Turn off, restart, Log बंद and Switch उपयोक्ता.
Earlier versions of Microsoft खिड़कियाँ ( Microsoft खिड़कियाँ 3.x, खिड़कियाँ 95, खिड़कियाँ 98 ) had a कार्यक्रम ज्ञात as tasks to प्रदर्शक the programs currently कार्यशील.
This संचिका was चलाया by running the taskman.exe संचिका इससे the C : \Windows directory.
the Troop is an american-canadian live-action, single कैमरा comedy -adventure टेलीविज़न श्रेणी परिचय a तिकड़ी of teenagers who लड़ो and capture monsters और अन्य अलौकिक phenomena that invade the fictional कस्बा of lakewood.
Created और कार्यपालिका उत्पादित by अधिकतम Burnett, ग्रेग कूलिज and Chris Morgan, the श्रेणी premiered on निकलोडियन on सितंबर 18, 2009.
the दूसरी season premiered on June 25, 2011 and निकलोडियन cancelled the श्रेणी मिडवे through it 's second ऋतु.
The बाकी एपीसोड of ऋतु 2 यहूद aired on Nicktoons मगर the पिछला 3..
Sparsely populated in संबंध to इसके क्षेत्रफल, the Democratic Republic of the कांगो ( drc ) is home to a vast संभावित of प्राकृतिक संसाधन और mineral माल, its untapped जमा of कच्चा minerals हैं estimated to be लायक in excess of us $ 24 trillion, yet the अर्थव्यवस्था of the drc रै अस्वीकृत drastically चूंकि the mid-1980s.
at the time of इसके independence in 1960, drc was the second most industrialized देश in Africa बाद South अफ़्रीकी ; it boasted a thriving खनन सेक्टर और इसके agriculture sector थी अपेक्षाकृत उत्पादक.
If the viewer stares at this image for 20–60 seconds और stares at a श्वेत object, a negative afterimage will appear ( in इस case, it होगा be क्यान on magenta ).
इस can also be हासिल by the दर्शक closing his/her आँखें और tilting उनके head up.
an afterimage or ghost चित्र or चित्र burn-in is an optical illusion कि refers to an चित्र continuing to appear in एक 's दृष्टि after the एक्सपोज़र to the असली चित्र has ceased.
एक of the most common afterimages is the bright glow that seems to float पहले one 's आँखें बाद looking into a लाइट source for a few सेकेंड.
closing the eye can सहायता achieve a better भाव of the रंग in इसके own aspect.
afterimages come in दो forms, ऋणात्मक ( inverted ) and धनात्मक ( retaining असली रंग ).
the process पीछे धनात्मक afterimages is unknown, हालांकि विचार to be सम्बन्धित to neural अनुकूलन.
on the अन्य hand, negative afterimages are a retinal घटना and हैं खूब समझा.
Lost is an American serial नाटक टेलीविज़न श्रेणी कि premiered on सितंबर 22, 2004 on the American Broadcasting कम्पनी ( ABC ).
the series was निर्मित by J. J. Abrams और डैमन lindelof, based upon an असली pilot स्क्रिप्ट titled Nowhere लिखा by Jeffrey lieber.
छह सीज़न of the show aired, in जोड to numerous काटें shows to पूर्वावलोकन previous episodes.
एबीसी घोषित कि खोया होता समाप्त after six सीज़न, having उत्पादित a total of 121 episodes.
The श्रेणी फ़ॉलो the पास्ट, उपस्थित, और future experience ( s ) of the survivors of a plane crash on a यात्री jet, Oceanic उड़ान 815, flying इससे सिडनी to Los एंजिल्स after it क्रैश on a tropical द्वीप in the South प्रशांत.
The श्रेणी also includes कहानियां of the lives of people already living on the island — वे include the `` अन्य ``, who initially antagonize the survivors, as खूब as a group of people जो arrive on the freighter kahana.
प्रत्येक episode typically सुविधाएँ कार्रवाई on the द्वीप as well as a द्वितीयक कथानक from another पाइंट in a character 's life.
Season 6 features a detailing of the lives of the survivors in a अलग reality, as if the उड़ान had never क्रैश.
in the following सूची, the पद `` प्रदर्शित character ( s ) '' refers to the अक्षर or characters जो are featured in the द्वितीयक storyline of प्रत्येक episode.
`` No.
in श्रेणी '' refers to the एपीसोड 's number in the overall series, whereas `` No.
in season '' refers to the episode 's क्रमांक in प्रत्येक particular season.
`` U.S. viewers ( लाख ) '' refers to the number of Americans in लाखो who देखी the एपीसोड सजीव.
a कुल of 121 एपीसोड of Lost यहूद उत्पादित, the पिछला of which aired on May 23, 2010.
सब सीज़न are available on DVD in regions 1–4 and on blu-ray in Regions a and B.
Flat feet ( भी called pes planus or गिरे arches ) is a औपचारिक सन्दर्भ to a medical condition in जिससे the मेहराब of the पैर collapses, साथ the संपूर्ण एकमात्र of the foot coming into complete or near-complete सम्पर्क with the मैदान.
In some individuals ( an estimated 20–30 % of the general जनसांख्यिकी ) the मेहराब simply never develops in एक foot ( unilaterally ) or दोनो feet ( bilaterally ).
Three अध्ययन ( देखिए citations नीचे in सैन्य section ) of सैन्य रंगरूटों have shown no evidence of बाद increased चोट, or foot problems, due to flat feet, in a जनसांख्यिकी of people जो reach सैन्य service आयु without prior foot problems.
However, ये अध्ययन can not be प्रयुक्त to judge possible भविष्य क्षति from this कंडीशन when diagnosed at younger आयु.
वे भी can not be applied to व्यक्तियों जिनकी flat फीट हैं संबद्ध साथ पैर symptoms, or निश्चित लक्षण in other parts of the देह ( ऐसे as the लेग or back ) possibly referable to the पैर.
Generation X, commonly abbreviated to gen x, is the पीढी born after the Western post-world युद्ध ii baby बूम.
demographers, historians and टीकाकारों उपयोग beginning जनम dates इससे the जल्दी 1960s to the जल्दी 1980s.
the term थी popularized by डगलस Coupland 's 1991 novel पीढी x : किस्से लिये an Accelerated Culture.
Before that, it had been used for विभिन्न subcultures or countercultures बाद the 1950s.
दबाव ulcers, भी known as decubitus ulcers or bedsores, हैं localized injuries to the skin and/or underlying tissue प्रायः over a बोनी prominence, as a परिणाम of दबाव, or दबाव in संयोजन साथ shear and/or घर्षण.
Most commonly this will be the sacrum, coccyx, heels or the कूल्हों, but अन्य sites such as the elbows, knees, ankles or the वापस of the cranium can be प्रभावित.
The कारण of pressure ulcers is pressure लागू to soft tissue so that blood प्रवाह to the soft ऊतक is completely or partially obstructed.
shear is भी a cause ; shear खींचता on रक्त vessels that फीड the स्किन.
दबाव छाले सबसे commonly develop in व्यक्तियों who are not चलती परिचय or हैं confined to wheelchairs.
It is widely believed कि other कारकों can influence the tolerance of स्किन for pressure and shear thereby increasing the risk of pressure अल्सर विकास.
These factors हैं protein-calorie कुपोषण, microclimate ( स्किन wetness caused by sweating or incontinence ), रोगों कि reduce रक्त प्रवाह to the skin, ऐसे as arteriosclerosis or diseases कि reduce the अहसास in the skin, such as paralysis or neuropathy.
the healing of दबाव ulcers may be slowed by the आयु of the person, चिकित्सा शर्तें ( such as arteriosclerosis, मधुमेह or संक्रमण ), smoking or medications such as antiinflammatory दवाएँ.
हालांकि often prevented और treatable if मिला early, दबाव ulcers can be बहुत difficult to prevent in critically बीमार मरीजों, frail elders, व्हीलचेयर उपयोक्ता ( especially जहाँ स्पाइनल चोट is involved ) and terminally बीमार patients.
प्राथमिक रोकथाम is to redistribute दबाव by turning the रोगी regularly.
The लाभ of turning to avoid further sores is खूब प्रलेखित since at तनिक the 19th century.
in जोड to turning और re-positioning the patient in bed or व्हीलचेयर, खाने a balanced diet with पर्याप्त प्रोटीन and keeping the स्किन फ़्री from exposure to urine and स्टूल is very महत्वपूर्ण.
the prevalence of pressure छाले in hospital जमावट is ऊँची, लकिन सुधार are होने बना.
According to the 2010 ipup ( International दबाव अल्सर व्यापकता Survey ) conducted in कनाडा, वहीँ was a significant decrease in the overall facility-acquired व्यापकता of pressure छाले इससे 2009-2010.
छाले यहूद most commonly पहचाना at the sacral/coccyx ulcer location ; however, heel छाले were the most common facility-acquired स्थान in the survey.
Overboard is a 1987 अमरीकी romantic कॉमेडी फिल्मी starring goldie hawn और Kurt रसेल.
It was निर्देशित by गैरी Marshall, produced by Roddy McDowell, और loosely inspired by the 1974 Italian film Swept दूर.
in फेरे, Overboard थी adapted into the 2006 South कोरियाई टेलीविज़न श्रेणी, युगल or ट्रबल.
Green Bay is a नगर in और the काउंटी सीट of भूरा County in the u.S. राज्य of Wisconsin, स्तिथ at the head of Green खाड़ी, a sub-basin of झील Michigan, at the mouth of the Fox नदी.
It रै an elevation of ऊपर समुद्र स्तर और is स्तिथ उत्तर of मिल्वौकी.
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 104,057 at the 2010 census.
it is the third-largest नगर in the state of Wisconsin, बाद मिल्वौकी and Madison.
It is भी the third-largest city on the वेस्ट shore of झील Michigan, after Chicago और मिल्वौकी.
ग्रीन खाड़ी is घर to the Green Bay Packers of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League, making it by far the smallest metropolitan area in the यूएसए to मेजबान a major professional sports मताधिकार.
ग्रीन खाड़ी is the principal नगर of the ग्रीन खाड़ी Metropolitan Statistical Area, जिससे covers भूरा, kewaunee, and Oconto काउंटी और था a संयुक्त population of 282,599 at the 2000 census.
Green खाड़ी is an औद्योगिक नगर साथ several meatpacking and पेपर पौधे, और a बंदरगाहों on Green खाड़ी, an भुजा of झील मिशिगन कि locals कॉल the खाड़ी of Green खाड़ी, to avoid conflating it साथ the eponymous नगर.
it is home to the नेशनल रेलरोड Museum ; the नेविली Public Museum, with exhibitions of art, इतिहास, और विज्ञान ; and the विश्वविद्यालयों of wisconsin–green खाड़ी.
Luteinizing hormone ( lh, also known as lutropin और sometimes lutrophin ) is a hormone produced by gonadotroph कोशिकाएं in the anterior pituitary ग्रंथि.
In महिलाओं, an अधि वृद्धि of LH ( `` LH surge '' ) triggers ovulation and development of the कॉर्पस luteum.
in males, जहाँ lh had also been पुकारा interstitial cell-stimulating hormone ( ICSH ), it stimulates leydig कोशिका उत्पादन of testosterone.
It अधिनियमों synergistically with FSH.
सेलिना quintanilla-pérez ( April 16, 1971 – March 31, 1995 ), known simply as सेलिना, was an अमरीकी singer-songwriter.
वो थी named the `` शीर्ष लैटिन कलाकार of the '90s '' and `` बेहतरीन selling लैटिन artist of the decade '' by बिलबोर्ड for उसके fourteen top-ten singles in the Top लैटिन Songs chart, सहित सात number-one hits.
Selena had the most successful singles of 1994 and 1995, `` amor prohibido `` and `` no me queda Más ``.
She was पुकारा `` The महारानी of tejano music `` और the Mexican समतुल्य of Madonna.
Selena released उसके first album, सेलिना y लॉस dinos, at the आयु of twelve.
She जीती मादा Vocalist of the Year at the 1987 Tejano Music पुरस्कार and landed a recording contract साथ EMI a few years बाद.
उसके कीर्ति grew throughout the early 1990s, विशेषकर in spanish-speaking countries, and वो had begun recording in English as खूब.
Selena was murdered at the age of 23 on कूच 31, 1995 by Yolanda saldívar, the former president of उसके fan club.
On April 12, 1995, two सप्ताह बाद उसके मौत, George W. Bush, राज्यपाल of टेक्सास at the समय, declared her birthday `` Selena Day '' in टेक्सास.
Warner Bros. produced सेलिना, a film based on her life starring जेनिफर लोपेज़, in 1997.
Selena 's life थी also the basis of the musical Selena Forever starring Veronica Vazquez as सेलिना.
In June 2006 Selena was commemorated साथ a life-sized bronze statue ( Mirador de la flor in कॉर्पस Christi, Texas ) and a Selena संग्रहालय opened वहीँ.
She रै बेची over 60 million एल्बम worldwide, बनाना her एक of the best-selling artists of all समय.
वो is also the तभी female artist to have पाँच एल्बम in U.S. बिलबोर्ड 200 at the same time.
German stahlhelm इससे संसार युद्ध ii
तमगा of the Bolivian फौज Colorados regiment, प्रर्दशित a Stahlhelm और two crossed bayonets
stahlhelm ( plural, stahlhelme ) is German for `` स्टील हेल्मेट ''.
the Imperial जर्मनी फौज began to बदलें the traditional boiled-leather Pickelhaube ( spiked combat helmet ) साथ the Stahlhelm दौरान World युद्ध I in 1916.
The term stahlhelm refers both to a generic स्टील helmet, और अधिक specifically to the distinctive ( and iconic ) German डिज़ाइन.
The Stahlhelm, with इसके distinctive `` coal scuttle `` आकार, थी an तुरन्त recognizable प्रतीक लिये सैन्य imagery और became a common तत्व of military प्रचार on both पहलू, just जैसे the pickelhaube पहले it.
Its name थी also प्रयुक्त by the Stahlhelm, a अर्धसैनिक nationalist संगठन established at the समाप्त of 1918.
Glow-in-the-dark may refer to:
Bioluminescence, the उत्पादन और उत्सर्जन of light by a जीना सजीव
chemiluminescence, is the emission of लाइट ( संदीप्ति ) without उत्सर्जन of ऊष्मा
स्फुरदीप्ति, a विशिष्ट type of photoluminescence सम्बन्धित to प्रतिदीप्ति
Radioluminescence, उत्पादन of luminescence in a सामग्री by the बमबारी of आयनकारी विकिरण
Glow in the अंधेरा दौरे, a 2008 कॉन्सर्ट दौरे by Kanye वेस्ट
Frankfurt विमानक्षेत्र serves as a hub नगर for लुफ़्थान्सा and receives फ़्लाइट इससे Star गठबंधन वाहक.
Airline hubs हैं airports क्रमित as large, medium, छोटी, और non-hubs as one of the FAA airport categories which हैं re-evaluated प्रत्येक साल आधारित on number of वाणिज्यिक passengers.
The अधिक common but informal उपयोग for the phrase airline हब is an विमानक्षेत्र कि an airline उपयोग as a transfer point to मिलेंगी यात्री to their intended destination.
It is भाग of a hub and spoke model, where travelers moving between airports नहीं परोसा by direct flights change planes en रूट to उनके गंतव्यों.
इस is as opposed to the Point to पाइंट model.
Many hubs of the airlines हैं भी situated at airports in the cities of the संबंधित head offices.
Some airlines may उपयोग only a single हब, while other एयरलाइंस use अनेक hubs.
hubs हैं used लिये दोनो passenger फ़्लाइट as खूब as कार्गो फ़्लाइट.
अनेक airlines भी उपयोग focus शहरों, which function much the same as hubs.
एयरलाइंस may also उपयोग secondary hubs, a non-technical term for विशाल फ़ोकस cities.
a हब in the मध्य of a रूट is more प्रभावी than at either समाप्त as connecting ट्रैफ़िक अधिक easily भरता the प्लेन - यात्री prefer a one-stop ( two-leg ) रूट over a two-stop ( three-leg ) रूट.
Hollow Lacedaemon.
Site of the Menelaion, the shrine to हेलेन and menelaus constructed anciently in the Bronze आयु नगर that stood on the hill of therapne on the left बैंको of the Eurotas River overlooking the future site of डोरियन स्पार्टा.
Across the valley the successive ridges of Mount taygetus are in प्रमाण.
Sparta ( Doric यूनानी : ; अटारी यूनानी : ), or Lacedaemon, थी a prominent city-state in प्राचीन Greece, situated on the banks of the eurotas River in Laconia, in south-eastern पेलोपोनीज़.
it emerged as a राजनैतिक एंटिटी around the 10th सदी BC, जब the आक्रमणकारी Dorians subjugated the लोकल, non-Dorian population.
Around 650 BC, it rose to become the dominant military land-power in ancient Greece.
Given its सैन्य pre-eminence, Sparta was recognized as the overall नेता of the संयुक्त Greek forces during the Greco-Persian युद्धों.
between 431 और 404 bc, Sparta थी the principal enemy of Athens दौरान the peloponnesian युद्ध, इससे जिससे it emerged victorious, though at great cost.
स्पार्टा 's शिकस्त by thebes in the बैटल of Leuctra in 371 BC ended Sparta 's prominent role in Greece.
however, it कायम इसके political independence until the Roman conquest of यूनानियों in 146 bc.
it then underwent a long period of मनाही, especially in the मध्य Ages, जब अनेक Spartans moved to live in Mystras.
Modern स्पार्टा is the capital of the यूनानी regional ईकाई of Laconia and a बीच for the processing of goods such as citrus and olives.
Sparta was unique in प्राचीन Greece लिये इसके सोशल system and constitution, जिससे completely केन्द्रित on military प्रशिक्षण and excellence.
Its inhabitants यहूद classified as Spartiates ( Spartan नागरिकों, जो enjoyed पूरा rights ), Mothakes ( non-spartan free मेन raised as spartans ), Perioikoi ( freedmen ), and helots ( state-owned serfs, enslaved non-Spartan local जनसांख्यिकी ).
Spartiates underwent the कठोर agoge प्रशिक्षण and शिक्षा regimen, and Spartan phalanges यहूद widely considered to be among the best in battle.
spartan women enjoyed considerably more अधिकारों and equality to men than elsewhere in the शास्त्रीय world.
स्पार्टा was the subject of fascination in इसके own day, as खूब as in the West following the पुनरुद्धार of शास्त्रीय learning.
इस love or admiration of Sparta is known as Laconism or laconophilia.
काल्पनिक football is an इंटरैक्टिव प्रतियोगिता in which उपयोक्ता compete विरूद्ध each अन्य as सामान्य प्रबंधक of virtual टीमों.
The खिलाड़ी कि an individual is समर्थ to manage are professional American football खिलाड़ी in the National फ़ुटबॉल League.
the अलग actions people are समर्थ to make हैं drafting, trading, adding or छोड़ने players, and बदलना rosters.
Due to the growth of the अंतरजाल, काल्पनिक football रै vastly increased in लोकप्रियता, particularly because Fantasy फ़ुटबॉल providers such as ESPN, याहू, CBS, and the NFL itself are समर्थ to रखना track of आंकडे entirely online, eliminating the need to check बक्सा स्कोर और newspapers regularly to रखना track of players.
Most लीग have a single सप्ताह championship in Week 16 of the एनएफएल ऋतु.
संसार population estimates from 1800 to 2100, based on UN 2010 projections ( red, orange, green ) and us जनसांख्यिकी Bureau historical estimates ( ब्लैक ).
वास्तविक अंकित population figures are in blue.
According to the highest estimate, the world जनसांख्यिकी may rise to 16 billion by 2100 ; according to the न्यूनतम अनुमान, it may मनाही to 6 अरब.
The world population is the कुल क्रमांक of जीना humans on Earth.
As of today, it is अनुमानित to number billion by the संयुक्त States जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो ( uscb ).
The USCB estimates that the संसार जनसांख्यिकी exceeded 7 अरब on कूच 12, 2012.
According to a पृथक अनुमान by the United Nations Population निधि, it पहुँचे this पड़ाव on October 31, 2011.
The संसार जनसांख्यिकी has अनुभवी continuous growth चूंकि the समाप्त of the ग्रेट Famine and the Black मौत in 1350, जब it stood at around 370 लाख.
the उच्चतम दरों of growth – वैश्विक population increases ऊपर 1.8 % per साल – were seen briefly during the 1950s, और लिये a longer काल during the 1960s and 1970s.
The विकास rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, and था अस्वीकृत to 1.1 % by 2011.
कुल सालाना births यहूद highest in the लेट 1980s at परिचय 138 million, और हैं now अपेक्षित to remain essentially निरंतर at उनके 2011 स्तर of 134 million, while deaths क्रमांक 56 million per साल, और हैं अपेक्षित to बढ़ाएँ to 80 लाख per year by 2040.
Current projections show a जारी बढ़ाएँ in population in the निकट future ( लकिन a स्थिर decline in the जनसांख्यिकी विकास रेट ), साथ the वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates भविष्यवाणी further growth, stagnation, or भी overall मनाही in the global population by 2150.
Some विश्लेषकों have questioned the स्थिरता of further संसार population विकास, citing the growing pressures on the पर्यावरण, वैश्विक खाना आपूर्तियाँ, और energy resources.
skeletal muscles होमो sapiens
इस is a तालिका of muscles of the इंसान anatomy.
वहीँ are approximately 642 skeletal मांसपेशियां within the ठेठ इंसान, and almost प्रत्येक muscle constitutes one part of a जोड़ी of एकसमान bilateral मांसपेशियां, मिला on दोनो sides, resulting in approximately 320 pairs of मांसपेशियां, as प्रस्तुत in this आलेख.
Nevertheless, the exact क्रमांक is मुश्किल to define क्युकी अलग स्त्रोत group muscles differently, e.g. regarding कया is defined as different भाग of a single मांसपेशी or as अनेक muscles.
उदाहरण दायरा इससे 640 to 850.
The muscles of the human body can be categorized into a क्रमांक of समूह which include muscles relating to the head और गर्दन, muscles of the धड़ or trunk, muscles of the upper limbs, और muscles of the निम्नतर limbs.
The कार्रवाई refers to the कार्रवाई of प्रत्येक मांसपेशी from the मानक anatomical position.
in अन्य positions, other क्रियाएँ may be performed.
a सुनहरा बार is a quantity of refined धात्विक gold of कोई आकार that is बना by a बार निर्माता बैठक standard शर्तें of manufacture, labeling, और रिकार्ड keeping.
larger सुनहरा bars that are produced by pouring the molten metal into molds हैं called पिंडों.
छोटी bars may be manufactured by minting or stamping from appropriately rolled सुनहरा sheets.
the standard gold बार आयोजित as gold reserves by central बैंको और traded among bullion dealers is the 400-troy-ounce ( 12.4 kg or 438.9 ounces ) Good Delivery gold बार.
the kilobar, जिससे is to कह 1000 grams in द्रव्यमान, is the bar कि is अधिक manageable and is प्रयुक्त extensively लिये व्यापार and निवेश.
the प्रीमियम on these बार जब traded is बहुत low over the स्पॉट value of the सुनहरा making it आदर्श for छोटी हस्तांतरण between banks और व्यापारियों.
सबसे kilobars are चपटा, although some निवेशकों, विशेषकर in यूरोपीय, prefer the ईंटों shape.
Elisha Archibald `` आर्ची '' Manning III ( born may 19, 1949 ) is a पूर्व American फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक in the National Football लीग, playing लिये the नई Orleans Saints from 1971 to 1982, then for the ह्यूस्टन ऑइलर्स और Minnesota वाइकिंग्स.
he is the father of current डेनवर Broncos quarterback Peyton मैनिंग, वर्तमान New York दिग्गज starting quarterback एली Manning, और पूर्व Ole मिस receiver कूपर मैनिंग.
Advocacy is a political process by an व्यक्तिगत or समूह जिससे aims to influence public-policy और resource आवंटन निर्णय within राजनैतिक, आर्थिक, and सोशल प्रणालियों और संस्थानों.
Advocacy can include अनेक क्रियाएँ that a व्यक्ति or organization undertakes including मीडिया campaigns, public बोलना, commissioning और प्रकाशन शोध or पोल or the filing of an amicus brief.
lobbying ( often by लॉबी groups ) is a रूप of वकालत where a सीधा दृष्टिकोण is made to विधायक on an issue which plays a significant भूमिका in modern राजनीती.
Research is शुरूआत to explore how advocacy groups in the U.S. और Canada हैं using social media to facilitate नागरिक सगाई और collective action.
the ध्वज of Mexico ( Spanish : bandera de méxico ) is a vertical tricolor of ग्रीन, श्वेत, और रेड with the national coat of बाहें चार्ज in the बीच of the श्वेत stripe.
While the meaning of the colors रै changed over समय, ये तीन रंगों यहूद adopted by Mexico following independence इससे स्पेन दौरान the देश 's War of Independence, and subsequent पहला मैक्सिकन साम्राज्य.
the वर्तमान flag थी अपनाया in 1968, but the overall डिज़ाइन रै been प्रयुक्त since 1821, when the First National Flag थी निर्मित.
the वर्तमान law of national symbols, विधि on the नेशनल बाहें, Flag, and गान, that governs the उपयोग of the नेशनल flag has महरूम in place since 1984.
रेड, white, and green are the रंगों of the नेशनल मुक्ति फौज in मैक्सिको.
The सेंट्रल emblem is the Aztec pictogram लिये tenochtitlan ( now मैक्सिको City ), the बीच of उनके empire.
it recalls the legend कि inspired the aztecs to settle on what थी originally a lake-island.
the form of the coat of बाहें थी most recently revised in 1968.
a ribbon in the नेशनल colors is at the नीचे of the coat of बाहें.
Throughout इतिहास, the flag has changed four टाइम्स, as the design of the कोट of बाहें and the length-width ratios of the ध्वज have महरूम modified.
However, the कोट of arms has had the same features throughout : an त्रिभुज, holding a serpent in its talon, is perched on शीर्ष of a prickly नाशपाती कैक्टस ; the कैक्टस is situated on a चट्टान कि rises above a lake.
the कोट of बाहें is निकला इससे an Aztec legend that उनके gods told उन्हें to build a नगर where वे स्पॉट an त्रिभुज on a nopal खाने a serpent, which is now मैक्सिको नगर.
the current national ध्वज, the चौथी नेशनल ध्वज, is भी प्रयुक्त as the Mexican नवल ensign by जहाजों registered in Mexico.
A destination marketing संगठन or सम्मेलन और visitor ब्यूरो promotes a कस्बा, नगर, प्रदेश, or country in order to increase the क्रमांक of visitors.
It promotes the विकास और marketing of a गंतव्य, focusing on सम्मेलन बिक्री, tourism marketing, और सेवाएं.
Such organizations प्रचार आर्थिक विकास of a destination by increasing visits from पर्यटकों and कारोबार travelers, which generates overnight lodging for a destination, विज़िट to restaurants, and shopping revenues.
सम्मेलन और visitor bureaus हैं the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण पर्यटन विपणन संगठन in their respective tourist गंतव्यों, as they हैं directly जिम्मेदार लिये marketing the गंतव्य brand through travel और tourism `` product जागरूकता '' to विज़िटर.
DMOs उपज billions of डॉलर in direct और अप्रत्यक्ष revenue and कर लिये their destinations ' economies with उनके विपणन and बिक्री expertise.
Destination विपणन संगठन हैं प्रायः called सफर, सम्मेलन, visitors, or पर्यटन bureaux, स्वागत centers, information centers and more.
Regardless of the नाम, ये organizations प्रस्ताव many services to the traveling पब्लिक.
The elk or wapiti ( Cervus canadensis ) is एक of the largest प्रजाति of deer in the world, और one of the largest land mammals in उत्तर America और पूर्वी एशिया.
it थी long believed to be a subspecies of the यूरोपीय रेड हिरण ( Cervus elaphus ), लकिन प्रमाण from a 2004 पढ़ाई of the mitochondrial DNA indicates कि the दो हैं पृथक प्रजाति.
This एनिमल should नहीं be उलझन with the larger मूस ( Alces alces ), to जिससे the name `` elk '' applies in यूरेशिया.
अलावा from the moose, the तभी other member of the हिरण family to rival the elk in size is the दक्षिण Asian sambar ( rusa unicolor ).
Elk range in वन और forest-edge आवास, feeding on grasses, plants, leaves, और छाल.
हालांकि native to North America और पूर्वी Asia, they have adapted खूब to countries जहाँ they have महरूम introduced, including Argentina, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, और New जीलैंड.
उनके ग्रेट adaptability may threaten endemic प्रजाति and ecosystems into which they have been introduced.
Male नीलगाय have large antlers which are शेड each साल.
Males also engage in ritualized समागम behaviors दौरान the rut, सहित posturing, antler wrestling ( sparring ), and bugling, a लाउड series of vocalizations जिससे establishes dominance over other males और attracts females.
नीलगाय are susceptible to a number of infectious diseases, कुछ of जिससे can be transmitted to livestock.
Efforts to eliminate संक्रामक रोगों from elk populations, largely through टीकाकरण, have had मिश्रित कामयाबी.
कुछ संस्कृतियों revere the elk as a spiritual force.
in parts of एशिया, antlers and उनके मखमल हैं used in परंपरागत medicines.
Elk हैं hunted as a game प्रजाति ; the मांस is leaner और higher in protein than beef or मुर्गा.
the George वॉशिंगटन विश्वविद्यालयों ( GW, GWU, or जार्ज Washington ) is a व्यापक private, coeducational शोध university located in Washington, D.C..
it awards प्रमाणपत्र, स्नातक डिग्री, मास्टर्स degrees, और PhDs आरपार अनेक dozen disciplines.
The विश्वविद्यालयों थी चार्टर्ड by an Act of Congress on February 9, 1821 as The Columbian कॉलेज in the District of कोलंबिया.
The lion ( Panthera leo ) is one of the four बिग cats in the genus Panthera और a member of the परिवार Felidae.
साथ कुछ males exceeding in weight, it is the second-largest living बिल्ली after the tiger.
Wild शेर currently exist in sub-saharan अफ़्रीकी और in Asia ( where an endangered remnant जनसांख्यिकी resides in गिर वन National पार्क in इण्डिया ) जबकि other types of lions have disappeared इससे उत्तर अफ़्रीकी and दक्षिणपश्चिम एशिया in historic times.
जबतक the late pleistocene, परिचय 10,000 सालो ago, the शेर was the most widespread large जमीन mammal बाद humans.
They were found in सबसे of अफ़्रीकी, आरपार Eurasia from पश्चिमी Europe to इण्डिया, और in the americas from the yukon to Peru.
the शेर is a vulnerable species, having seen a प्रमुख population मनाही of 30–50 % over the past दो decades in इसके African दायरा.
Lion populations हैं untenable बाहर designated reserves and नेशनल parks.
हालांकि the कारण of the मनाही is नहीं fully understood, आवास घाटा and conflicts साथ humans are currently the महानतम causes of चिंता.
भीतर अफ़्रीकी, the West African शेर जनसांख्यिकी is particularly endangered.
शेर live for 10–14 years in the जंगली, while in captivity वे can सजीव longer than 20 years.
In the wild, males seldom सजीव longer than 10 सालो, as injuries sustained इससे continual fighting साथ प्रतिद्वंद्वी males greatly reduce उनके आयु.
वे typically inhabit सवाना और grassland, हालांकि they may take to बुश और वन.
शेर हैं unusually social compared to अन्य cats.
a अभिमान of lions consists of related females और offspring and a छोटी क्रमांक of adult males.
Groups of female lions typically हंट together, preying mostly on विशाल ungulates.
शेर are apex और keystone predators, although they scavenge as अवसर allows.
जबकि शेर do not typically hunt इंसानो, कुछ have महरूम known to do so.
Sleeping मुख्यतः during the दिन, शेर हैं primarily nocturnal, हालांकि bordering on crepuscular in प्रकृति.
अत्यधिक distinctive, the male शेर is easily recognised by its mane, and इसके face is one of the सबसे widely recognised animal प्रतीकों in इंसान संस्कृति.
depictions have existed from the अपर Paleolithic period, साथ carvings and paintings from the Lascaux और Chauvet Caves, through virtually all प्राचीन and medieval संस्कृतियों where वे once occurred.
it has महरूम extensively depicted in sculptures, in paintings, on national flags, and in समकालीन films and साहित्य.
शेर have महरूम kept in menageries चूंकि the समय of the Roman Empire, और have been a key प्रजाति sought लिये प्रदर्शनी in zoos over the संसार चूंकि the लेट 18th century.
Zoos are cooperating विश्वव्यापी in breeding कार्यक्रम for the endangered एशियाटिक subspecies.
In the history of video games, the सातवाँ पीढी of consoles is the previous generation, and शामिल consoles released since लेट by निन्टेंडो, Microsoft, और सोनी.
For घर consoles, the seventh generation began on 22 नवम्बर 2005 with the release of Xbox 360 और जारी with the release of PlayStation 3 on 11 November 2006, और वी on 19 नवम्बर 2006.
प्रत्येक new console introduced a new प्रकार of भेदन in प्रौद्योगिकी.
The एक्सबॉक्स 360 offered खेल rendered natively at hd रिज़ॉल्यूशन, the प्लेस्टेशन 3 offered, in addition to FHD gaming, HD movie playback via a built-in 3d Blu-ray डिस्क खिलाड़ी, और the वी focused on integrating परिरक्षक साथ movement सेंसर as खूब as joysticks.
joining निन्टेंडो in the गति मार्केट, Sony released the PlayStation Move in सितंबर 2010.
the प्लेस्टेशन Move features गति sensing गेमिंग, similar to that of the Wii.
Microsoft भी joined सोनी and निन्टेंडो, with इसके kinect.
Unlike the other two प्रणालियों ( प्लेस्टेशन 3 and वी ), kinect does नहीं use कोई controllers of कोई sort and makes the उपयोक्ता the `` नियंत्रक. ''
Having बेची 8 million units in इसके first 60 days on the मार्केट, Kinect has claimed the Guinness संसार रिकार्ड of होने the `` तीव्रतम selling consumer electronics यंत्र ''.
While the Xbox 360 offers तार परिरक्षक as a स्टैंडअलोन उत्पाद, all प्लेस्टेशन 3 controllers can be प्रयुक्त in तार और wireless configurations.
starting साथ हैंडहेल्ड consoles, the seventh पीढी began on 21 November 2004 साथ the उत्तर अमरीकी introduction of the निन्टेंडो DS as a `` तीसरा pillar '', alongside निन्टेंडो 's existing Game Boy अग्रिम and GameCube consoles.
The Nintendo DS ( NDS ) features a touch स्क्रीन और built-in माइक्रोफोन, and supports बेतार आईईईई 802.11 ( Wi-Fi ) मानकों.
Additionally, the संशोधित version of the nds, the DSi, features two built in कैमरे, the ability to डाउनलोड खेल इससे the DSi स्टोर, और a वेब ब्राउजर.
the PlayStation Portable, or psp, released बाद the वही साल on 12 December 2004, followed a different पैटर्न.
It became the पहला हैंडहेल्ड video खेल console to उपयोग an ऑप्टिकल disc स्वरूप, सार्वभौमिक Media डिस्क ( UMD ), as इसके primary भंडार मीडिया.
Sony भी दिया the PSP मजबूत multi-media काबिलियत, connectivity साथ the PlayStation 3 and other psps, and Internet connectivity.
the निन्टेंडो DS likewise रै कनेक्टिविटी to the internet through the Nintendo wi-fi Connection and Nintendo ds Browser, as well as बेतार कनेक्टिविटी to अन्य DS systems और वी consoles.
Despite ऊँची बिक्री numbers for both consoles, PlayStation Portable बिक्री have consistently lagged behind those of the निन्टेंडो DS ; nevertheless, the प्लेस्टेशन पोर्टेबल has the distinction of being the best-selling non-nintendo handheld gaming प्रणाली.
sgt. pepper 's निर्जन Hearts Club बैंड ( प्रायः shortened to sgt. pepper ) is the eighth studio एल्बम by अंग्रेज़ी चट्टान बैंड the बीटल्स.
released in जून 1967, the एल्बम शामिल songs ऐसे as `` साथ a Little सहायता इससे My Friends ``, `` Lucy in the Sky with ईंट ``, and `` A Day in the Life ``.
continuing the कलाकारी maturation seen on the band 's एल्बम रिवाल्वर ( 1966 ), sgt. Pepper further रजि from the conventional pop चट्टान मुहावरा of the time और incorporated balladry, साइकेडेलिक, म्यूज़िक हॉल, और symphonic प्रभाव.
During the sgt. pepper sessions, the group improved upon the quality of their music 's उत्पादन जबकि exploring experimental recording तकनीकों.
निर्माता George मार्टिन 's innovative दृष्टिकोण शामिल the उपयोग of an orchestra.
widely acclaimed और imitated, the एल्बम cover, designed by English पॉप कलाकारों Peter Blake और Jann haworth, थी inspired by a स्केच by Paul mccartney that चित्रित the बैंड पोज़ in सामने of a collage of some of उनके favourite celebrities.
sgt. pepper was a विश्वव्यापी नाजुक और commercial कामयाबी, spending 27 weeks at the शीर्ष of the UK Album Chart और 15 weeks at number एक on the US बिलबोर्ड 200.
a seminal work in the emerging psychedelic rock style, the album was critically acclaimed upon release और won four Grammy पुरस्कार in 1968.
With an estimated 32 लाख नक़ल बेची, it is एक of the world 's बेहतरीन selling एल्बम.
sgt. pepper is माना by many to be the सबसे influential and famous rock एल्बम ever, and रै महरूम named the greatest एल्बम of सब समय by दोनो All Time Top 1000 Albums and Rolling Stone.
The temporal lobe is a प्रदेश of the cerebral cortex कि is स्तिथ beneath the lateral फिशर on दोनो cerebral बांटती of the mammalian दिमाग.
the temporal निर्मोक are शामिल in the retention of विज़ुअल यादें, processing sensory input, comprehending भाषा, storing new यादें, जज्बात, and deriving meaning.
the human lungs are the organs of श्वसन in इंसानो.
Humans have दो lungs, a सही फेफड़ों and a बाएँ फेफड़ों.
the right lung consists of three निर्मोक जबकि the बाएँ फेफड़ों is थोड़ा छोटी consisting of तभी दो lobes ( the left फेफड़ों रै a `` cardiac notch '' allowing स्पेस लिये the heart within the chest ).
साथ, the lungs contain लगभग of airways and 300 to 500 लाख alveoli, having a कुल surface क्षेत्रफल of परिचय ( ) in adults — roughly the same क्षेत्रफल as एक side of a टेनिस court.
Furthermore, if all of the capillaries that घेर the alveoli यहूद unwound और रखी समाप्त to समाप्त, वे होता extend for about.
Each फेफड़ों weighs, therefore making the संपूर्ण अंग परिचय.
इंसान lungs
The श्वासनली divides into two bronchi ( एक for each side ) at the स्तर of t4.
This junction is भी known as the carina.
the conducting मण्डल contains the श्वासनली, the bronchi, the bronchioles, and the टर्मिनल bronchioles the respiratory zone contains the respiratory bronchioles, the alveolar नलिकाएं, and the alveoli.
the conducting zone and the respiratory stuffers ( but not the alveoli ) are made up of एयरवेज़.
the conducting zone has no gas एक्सचेंज with the रक्त, और is reinforced with उपास्थि in order to hold खोलें the एयरवेज़.
the conducting मण्डल warms the एयर to और humidifies the एयर.
It also cleanses the air by removing अणु via cilia स्तिथ on the walls of all the passageways.
The फेफड़े हैं surrounded by the rib cage.
The respiratory मण्डल is the site of gas एक्सचेंज with रक्त.
the sympathetic बेचैन प्रणाली via noradrenaline एक्टिंग on the बीटा receptors कल्याणकारी bronchodilation.
the parasympathetic nervous system via acetylcholine, जिससे acts on the m-3 muscarinic receptors, maintains the resting tone of the bronchiolar smooth मांसपेशी.
This action is सम्बन्धित, although considered distinct इससे bronchoconstriction.
अनेक अन्य non-autonomic बेचैन and biochemical stimuli, including carbon डाइऑक्साइड and ऑक्सीजन, are भी involved in the विनियमन process.
The pleural गुहा is the potential स्पेस between the parietal pleura, अस्तर the inner वॉल of the thoracic पिंजरा, and the visceral pleura lining the lungs.
The lung parenchyma is सख्ती प्रयुक्त to refer solely to alveolar tissue साथ respiratory bronchioles, alveolar नलिकाएं और terminal bronchioles.
However, it प्रायः includes any form of फेफड़ों ऊतक, भी सहित bronchioles, bronchi, रक्त vessels और फेफड़ों interstitium.
The margarita is a मैक्सिकन cocktail consisting of टकीला मिश्रित साथ Cointreau or similar नारंगी -flavoured liqueur और लाइम or नीबू रस, often परोसा with नमक on the glass rim.
it is the सबसे आम tequila-based cocktail in the United States.
The drink is served shaken साथ ice ( on the रॉक्स ), blended with ice ( frozen margarita ), or बगैर ice ( सीधा up ).
दो बोतलों of red बरगंडी wine इससे gevrey-chambertin, côtes de Nuits
बरगंडी is a dark red रंग संबद्ध साथ the Burgundy wine of the वही name, जिससे in फेरे is named after the बरगंडी प्रदेश of France.
The रंग burgundy is similar to other shades of अंधेरा red ऐसे as maroon.
जब referring to the color, `` burgundy '' is usually नहीं capitalized.
The पहला अंकित use of `` burgundy '' as a रंग नाम in English was in 1881.
संगीन of an unknown अंग्रेजों सिपाही, killed in 1943 during the Battle of Leros.
Because उसके पहचान is unknown, he is missing in action.
संगीन of an unknown अमरीकी soldier in Oise-Aisne कब्रिस्तान.
मारे in 1917
संगीन of an अनजान छत्रसेना, killed in the Battle of Arnhem, 1944.
Photographed in अप्रैल 1945
क़ब्रों of 11 अनजान अंग्रेजों सैनिको killed दौरान संसार War II, in rhodes cwgc war cemetery
Wall crypts containing remains of अनजान Italian soldiers मारे during World War ii, in a rhodes कब्रिस्तान
कुछ of the 72,000 names inscribed on the thiepval Memorial to the Missing of the somme
Graves of unknown French soldiers मारे during संसार युद्ध One.
Each कंक्रीट क्रॉस रै a मेटल प्लैक bearing the word `` inconnu '' i.e. `` Unknown ''
Ossuary at the gallipoli battlefield, containing the remains of 3000 unidentified French सैनिको जो died in 1915
क़ब्रों of unknown Eritrean ascaris मारे in 1941 during the Battle of Keren
Missing in action ( MIA ) is a casualty श्रेणी assigned under the Status of Missing to हथियारबंद services personnel who हैं reported लापता during active सेवा.
वे may have been killed, wounded, become a कैदी of war, or deserted.
if मृतक, neither उनके remains nor संगीन can be positively identified.
Becoming मिया has been an occupational risk for सेवा कर्मियों लिये as long as there has been warfare.
Chamber of कॉमर्स Building in Center.
This building is the original jail, निर्मित साथ साथ the ऐतिहासिक courthouse.
दोनो बैठना on the Town वर्गाकार.
The Rio Theater in Center
First Baptist Church at 117 Cora Street in बीच is located next to the downtown section.
पहला Christian Church at 124 कोरा Street in बीच is one of the oldest congregations in the जातियाँ.
बीच is a नगर in शेल्बी County, Texas, संयुक्त राज्य.
The population was 5,193 at the 2010 census.
it is the county सीट of शेल्बी County.
it is नामित लिये its स्थान निकट the center of Shelby काउंटी, not लिये इसके स्थान in टेक्सास as it is located near the Louisiana border.
Intense red-eye प्रभाव in ब्लू आँखें with dilated pupil
the red-eye प्रभाव in photography is the common रूप of red pupils in color photographs of eyes.
it occurs जब using a photographic फ्लैश बहुत close to the कैमरा लेंस ( as with most कॉम्पैक्ट कैमरे ), in ambient कम light.
The effect appears in the आँखें of इंसानो and पशु that have tapetum lucidum.
Theatrical followspot ऑपरेटर, positioned nearly coincidentally साथ a very bright लाइट और somewhat दूर from the अभिनेताओं, occasionally witness red-eye in actors on stage.
the प्रभाव is नहीं दृश्य to the rest of the audience क्युकी it is reliant on the बहुत small कोण between the followspot operator और the लाइट.
the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, सांता बारबरा ( commonly referred to as UC Santa Barbara or ucsb ) is a public शोध university and एक of the ten general campuses of the University of कैलिफ़ोर्निया प्रणाली.
the प्रमुख campus is स्तिथ on a site in Goleta, California, संयुक्त राज्य, इससे सांता बारबरा और northwest of लॉस एंजिल्स.
Tracing its जड़ें back to 1891 as an independent शिक्षक ' college, ucsb joined the विश्वविद्यालयों of California system in 1944 and is the third-oldest general-education कैम्पस in the system.
ucsb is one of अमेरिका 's पब्लिक आइवी universities, जिससे recognizes शीर्ष public शोध universities in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The विश्वविद्यालयों is a व्यापक doctoral university and is व्यवस्थित into पाँच colleges और schools offering 87 undergraduate degrees और 55 graduate degrees.
The campus is the 6th-largest in the UC system by enrollment साथ 18,977 undergraduate and 2,950 graduate students.
in 2012, ucsb was ranked 41st among `` नेशनल Universities '' and 10th among public universities by U.S. न्यूज & World रपट.
The विश्वविद्यालयों थी also ranked 35th विश्वव्यापी by the टाइम्स Higher Education संसार University rankings और 34th विश्वव्यापी ( 6th worldwide for engineering ) by the अकादमिक रैंकिंग of संसार विश्वविद्यालयों in 2012. < संदर्भ name= '' shanghairanking.com/fieldeng2012 '' >
UC Santa बारबरा is a `` बहुत ऊँची कार्यकलाप '' research university और खर्च $ 191.2 लाख on research expenditures in the 2007 फिस्कल year, 97th-largest in the United States.
UCSB घरों twelve नेशनल शोध centers, सहित the renowned kavli Institute लिये सैद्धांतिक Physics.
UCSB faculty includes five नोबेल Prize laureates, एक Fields Medalist, 29 members of the National Academy of sciences, 27 members of the National अकादमी of अभियान्त्रिकी, और 31 members of the अमरीकी Academy of Arts and sciences.
UCSB थी the No. 3 host on the ARPAnet और थी elected to the संघ of American विश्वविद्यालयों in 1995.
The uc Santa बारबरा Gauchos compete in the NCAA प्रभाग i Big वेस्ट सम्मेलन.
the Gauchos have won NCAA national championships in men 's सॉकर और मेन 's जल polo.
Saint Joseph with the Infant यीशु by guido reni
संत Joseph 's Day, March 19, the feast of st. Joseph is in Western Christianity the principal feast day of Saint जोसेफ, Spouse of the धन्य Virgin Mary.
he is भी the step-father of Jesus of नासरत /Jesus मसीह.
it रै the रैंक of a solemnity in the Roman कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर ; catholics जो follow the missal of 1962 celebrate it as a पहला class feast.
Previous to 1962 it थी celebrated as a feast of the रैंक of double of the पहला क्लास.
it is a feast or commemoration in the प्रांतों of the Anglican नियाज़, और a feast or पर्व in the लूथरन Church.
Saint जोसेफ 's दिन is the patronal feast दिन लिये Poland as खूब as लिये Canada, persons named जोसेफ, josephine, etc., लिये धार्मिक संस्थान, schools and parishes bearing his name, and for carpenters.
it is भी Father 's दिन in some कैथोलिक देशों, mainly स्पेन, Portugal, और Italy.
March 19 थी dedicated to संत जोसेफ in अनेक Western पंचांग by the tenth century, and इस कस्टम was स्थापित in रोम by 1479.
पोप St. Pius v extended इसके use to the entire Roman रीति by his अपोस्टोलिक संविधान quo Primum ( July 14, 1570 ).
Since 1969, Episcopal Conferences may, if they काश, ट्रांसफ़र it to a तिथि बाहर Lent.
between 1870 और 1955, a feast थी celebrated in सम्मान of st. जोसेफ as जीवनसाथी of the Blessed Virgin Mary and Patron of the सार्वभौमिक Church, the latter title having महरूम दिए to him by Pope पायस ix.
Originally मनाये on the तीसरा Sunday after Easter with an octave, बाद divino Afflatu of St. Pius x ( see Reform of the रोमन Breviary by पोप पायस X ), it थी moved to the preceding बुधवार.
the feast थी भी retitled the Solemnity of Saint Joseph.
This जश्न और its accompanying अष्टक थी abolished दौरान the modernisation और सरलीकरण of rubrics under Pope Pius बारहवीं in 1955.
it is still कायम by Catholics जो follow the missal of 1962 or earlier missals.
as the परंपरागत holiday of the Apostles ss. Philip और जेम्स, May 1, had धुंधली इससे the मेमोरी of most Catholics by the mid-twentieth century, that of जोसेफ the Worker थी created in order to coincide with the celebration of international श्रमिक Day ( may Day ) in अनेक देशों.
The feast of Ss. Philip and James, जिससे था been मनाये on that तिथि since the sixth सदी, थी स्थानांतरित इससे its परंपरागत place.
In the नई पंचांग published in 1969, the feast, which at एक समय occupied the उच्चतम possible rank in the Church पंचांग, थी घटाया to an वैकल्पिक मेमोरियल, the lowest rank लिये a संत 's दिन.
the पूर्वी परंपरागत Church celebrates संत जोसेफ on the संडे after Christmas.
mariah Carey ( born March 27, 1970 ) is an अमरीकी सिंगर, songwriter, record producer, actress, और लोकसेवक.
अंतर्गत the guidance of कोलंबिया Records कार्यपालिका Tommy mottola, Carey released उसके self-titled debut studio album mariah Carey in 1990 ; it went multi-platinum और spawned चार लगातार number एक singles on the u.s. बिलबोर्ड hot 100 चार्ट.
following her विवाह to Mottola in 1993 and कामयाबी साथ hit records भाव ( 1991 ), Music Box ( 1993 ), और मैरी Christmas ( 1994 ), Carey was established as कोलंबिया 's highest-selling अधिनियम.
daydream ( 1995 ) made music history जब इसके दूसरी single `` एक मीठी Day ``, a duet साथ बॉयज ii मेन, spent a रिकार्ड sixteen weeks on शीर्ष of the Billboard hot 100, and remains the longest-running number-one सोंग in u.S. chart history.
दौरान the रिकॉर्डिंग of the album, कैरी began to deviate इससे her r & b और पॉप beginnings and slowly traversed into hip hop.
This musical change became evident साथ the release of तितली ( 1997 ), at which time कैरी था separated from Mottola.
कैरी बाएँ कोलंबिया in 2000, और हस्ताक्षरित a record-breaking $ 100 million recording अनुबंध साथ Virgin रिकॉर्ड.
पहले the release of her first विशेषता film glitter ( 2001 ), वो suffered a physical और emotional breakdown and was hospitalized लिये severe exhaustion.
Following the film 's ग़रीब रिसेप्शन, वो थी खरीदा out of her रिकॉर्डिंग contract लिये $ 50 लाख, जिससे led to a मनाही in उसके करियर.
वो हस्ताक्षरित a multi-million डालर contract deal साथ द्वीप रिकॉर्ड in 2002, और after an unsuccessful period, returned to the शीर्ष of music चार्ट साथ The Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ).
इसके दूसरी single `` We Belong Together `` became उसके most successful सिंगल of the 2000s, और थी बाद नामित `` सोंग of the दशक '' by बिलबोर्ड.
कैरी एकबार again ventured into फिल्मी साथ a well-received अभिनीत role in ( 2009 ) ; she थी awarded the `` भेदन प्रदर्शन पुरस्कार '' at the Palm स्रोतों अंतरराष्ट्रीय Film Festival, और ब्लैक Reel and NAACP चित्र पुरस्कार nominations.
In a करियर spanning over दो दशकों, कैरी has sold more than 200 लाख रिकॉर्ड worldwide, making उसके one of the best-selling म्यूज़िक artists of all समय.
in 1998, वो थी honored as the world 's best-selling recording artist of the 1990s at the World Music पुरस्कार.
कैरी थी भी नामित the best-selling मादा कलाकार of the मिलेनियम in 2000.
According to the Recording उद्योग संघ of अमेरिका, वो is the third best-selling मादा artist in the संयुक्त राज्य, with 63.5 लाख certified albums.
With the release of `` Touch My Body `` ( 2008 ), Carey gained उसके eighteenth क्रमांक one single in the United राज्य, अधिक than any अन्य सोलो artist.
In 2012, Carey was ranked दूसरी on vh1 's list of the `` 100 Greatest महिलाओं in म्यूज़िक ''.
aside from her वाणिज्यिक accomplishments, कैरी रै जीती five ग्रैमी Awards, 17 संसार म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार, 11 American म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार, and 31 Billboard म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार.
Referred to as the `` songbird supreme '' by the गिनीज World Records, she is famed लिये उसके five-octave vocal दायरा, शक्ति, melismatic स्टाइल and हस्ताक्षर use of the सीटी पंजीकरण.
A bumblebee is any member of the मधुमक्खी genus Bombus, in the family apidae.
There are over 250 ज्ञात species, existing primarily in the Northern गोलार्ध हालांकि वे also occur in South अमेरिका.
वे have महरूम introduced to नई जीलैंड और the Australian राज्य of तस्मानिया.
Bumblebees are सोशल insects that are characterised by ब्लैक और yellow देह hairs, प्रायः in bands.
however, कुछ प्रजाति have नारंगी or रेड on their bodies, or may be entirely ब्लैक.
Another obvious ( but नहीं अद्वितीय ) characteristic is the soft प्रकृति of the बाल ( long, branched setae ), called pile, that covers उनके entire देह, making उन्हें appear और महसूस फजी.
They are बेहतरीन distinguished from similarly large, fuzzy मधुमक्खियों by the रूप of the female hind लेग, जिससे is modified to form a corbicula : a shiny concave सतह कि is bare, लकिन घिरी by a fringe of hairs प्रयुक्त to हस्तांतरण pollen ( in similar bees, the hind लेग is completely बालदार, और pollen दाने हैं wedged into the बालों लिये transport ).
Like their रिश्तेदारों the मधु bees, bumblebees फीड on मकरंद and gather pollen to फीड their young.
a man खुलकर carrying a handgun in a Burger किंग in Eagle, कोलोराडो.
in the संयुक्त राज्य, open carry is shorthand terminology for `` openly carrying a firearm in public '', as distinguished from concealed carry, जहाँ firearms can नहीं be देखी by the कैज़ुअल निरीक्षक.
the अभ्यास of खोलें carry, जहाँ gun स्वामी खुलकर carry firearms जबकि they go परिचय उनके daily business, has seen an बढ़ाएँ in the u.S. in हाल years.
इस रै been चिह्नित by a क्रमांक of organized कार्यक्रम intended to increase the दृश्यता of open carry and public जागरूकता about the अभ्यास.
proponents of खोलें carry point to इतिहास and statistics, noting कि criminals usually छिपाते their weapons.
Encouraged by groups like OpenCarry.org, georgiacarry.org और कुछ भागीदार of the फ़्री State Project, open carry रै देखी a पुनरुद्धार in हाल सालो, लकिन it is नहीं yet clear if this represents just a short-term trend.
the गन अधिकारों community has महरूम mixed in इसके जवाब.
एलन Gottlieb of the दूसरी Amendment Foundation and the nra have been cautious in expressing support, जबकि special-interest groups such as the aforementioned OpenCarry.org and GeorgiaCarry.org, and certain नेशनल groups ऐसे as the Gun Owners of अमेरिका ( GOA ) have महरूम more outspoken in एहसान of the practice.
Open carry is strongly opposed by गन कंट्रोल groups ऐसे as the ब्रैडी अभियान and the Coalition to Stop गन हिंसा.
the cattenom नाभिकीय Power संयंत्र in France.
फ़्रांस produces around तीन quarters of इसके electricity by नाभिकीय शक्ति.
The Grafenrheinfeld नाभिकीय Power Plant in जर्मनी.
चांसलर एंजेला मार्केल 's coalition announced on May 30, 2011, that germany’s 17 nuclear शक्ति stations will be shut down by 2022, in a policy reversal following जापानी 's Fukushima daiichi nuclear विपत्ति.
फिलहाल, 68 reactors हैं अंतर्गत निर्माण in 15 countries.
Nuclear power stations operate in thirty countries.
in 2010, पहले the फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति, it थी reported कि an average of about 10 nuclear reactors यहूद expected to become operational प्रति year, although according to the World नाभिकीय संघ, of the 17 civilian रिएक्टरों planned to become operational between 2007 और 2009, तभी पाँच दरअसल आए on स्ट्रीम.
As of June 2011, Germany and स्विट्ज़रलैंड हैं phasing-out nuclear power.
as of जून 2011, देशों such as ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Austria, डेनमार्क, यूनानियों, आयरलैंड, इटली, Latvia, liechtenstein, ध्वज, मलेशिया, माल्टा, नई Zealand, Norway और पुर्तगाल remain opposed to नाभिकीय शक्ति.
रंग motion चित्र film refers दोनो to unexposed color फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक फिल्मी in a स्वरूप उपयुक्त लिये उपयोग in a motion picture कैमरा, और to समाप्त गति picture फिल्मी, तैयार लिये use in a projector, which bears बिंब in रंग.
the पहला रंग cinematography थी by अर्थात् of योगात्मक रंग systems ऐसे as the एक patented in England by Edward रेमंड Turner in 1899 और tested in 1902.
a सरलीकृत योगात्मक system थी developed by जार्ज अल्बर्ट Smith और सफलतापूर्वक commercialized in 1909 as Kinemacolor.
These जल्दी प्रणालियों प्रयुक्त black-and-white film to फोटोग्राफ और project दो or more component images through different color फ़िल्टर.
स्टिल from footage अंकित by Edward टर्नर in 1902
साथ the present-day technology, there हैं two पृथक प्रक्रियाओं : Eastman Color ऋणात्मक 2 chemistry ( camera negative stocks, duplicating interpositive and internegative stocks ) और Eastman रंग धनात्मक 2 chemistry ( positive prints लिये सीधा प्रक्षेप ), usually abbreviated as ECN-2 और ecp-2.
फुजी 's उत्पाद are संगत with ECN-2 and ECP-2.
ashanti Shequoiya डगलस ( born October 13, 1980 ) is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter, रिकार्ड निर्माता, और actress.
ashanti is सबसे प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके eponymous डेब्यू एल्बम, which प्रदर्शित the hit song `` Foolish ``, और बेची over 503,000 copies in its first week of release throughout the u.S. in April 2002.
the एल्बम set a Soundscan record as the biggest opening सप्ताह sales for a new मादा कलाकार, outselling debuts by एलिसिया कुंजियाँ और Lauryn हिल.
in the same week, वो became the first female यजमान to simultaneously hold the top two places on the Billboard hot 100 singles चार्ट with `` foolish '', and `` What 's Luv ? ``
( with Fat Joe ).
Ashanti broke records again by having three top ten गीतों, `` Foolish, '' `` कया 's luv ? '' and `` Always on Time ``, on the Billboard Hot 100 charts in the same week, होने the पहला woman to accomplish इस feat and होने second तभी to the बीटल्स.
in 2003, the self-titled डेब्यू album जीती ashanti उसके पहला ग्रैमी Award लिये Best समकालीन R & b एल्बम.
as of अप्रैल 1st 2013, ashanti has बेची over 27.7 लाख records worldwide.
ashanti ended the दशक ( 2000–09 ) as the third top new R & B कलाकार behind Alicia Keys and बेयोंस.
She also ended the decade at number 38 on the Top कलाकार of the Decade सूची.
She is फिलहाल on the list of The बीस Best selling म्यूज़िक singles Since 1990 लिये उसके single Foolish for selling 7.2 लाख copies to-date.
ashanti रै an estimated जाल worth of $ 40 लाख डॉलर [ USD ].
ashanti wrote and संग background on Jennifer Lopez 's `` Ai n't It Funny ( हत्या रिमिक्स ) ``, which पहुँचे क्रमांक one on बिलबोर्ड Hot 100, जिससे was also in the शीर्ष 10 chart at the same time as `` Foolish '', `` Always on समय '' ( साथ Ja नियम ), और `` कया 's Luv '' ( with Fat जो ).
Later that साल, she was acclaimed as the `` Princess of Hip-Hop & r & B '' by उसके लेबल and capped off उसके कामयाब डेब्यू by winning eight Billboard पुरस्कार and two American Music पुरस्कार.
भीतर seven years of Ashanti 's career, वो रै scored 16 शीर्ष 40 hits on the hot 100.
ashanti रै endorsed numerous उत्पाद including Gap, Herbal essences और mudd जीन्स.
Ashanti cites व्हिटनी ह्यूस्टन, Janet Jackson, Prince, Madonna, Tupac Shakur, मरियम J. Blige, एला Fitzgerald, नशीले Robinson, Donna Summer, और ब्लू Magic as her musical प्रभाव.
praised as a gifted songwriter by उसके peers and critics alike, ashanti has written/co-written the बल्क of सब उसके म्यूज़िक.
वो is currently working on उसके own publishing company हकदार Written Entertainment.
वो released her fourth स्टुडियो एल्बम entitled the घोषणा on जून 3, 2008 and is फिलहाल in the studio working on her fifth.
She also performed the charity धुन `` Just स्टैंड Up `` alongside 15 other female गायकों लिये the `` स्टैंड up to Cancer '' live television special जिससे helped उठाएँ $ 100 million डॉलर for cancer research.
the संयुक्त States फौज एयर Forces ( usaaf or aaf ) थी the सैन्य aviation arm of the United राज्य of America दौरान और तत्काल बाद World युद्ध II, और the सीधा पूर्ववर्ती of the United States Air Force.
The aaf was a घटक of the संयुक्त States फौज, which in 1942 was divided functionally by executive अनुक्रम into three autonomous forces : the Army Ground शक्तियां, the सेवाएं of सप्लाई ( which in 1943 became the फौज सेवा Forces ), and the aaf.
प्रत्येक of ये forces था a commanding general who reported directly to the मुख्य of स्टाफ of the संयुक्त राज्य फौज.
The aaf administered all parts of military aviation formerly वितरित among the Army Air Corps, सामान्य मुख्यालय Air Force, और ground शक्तियां corps area कमांडरों, और यूँ became the पहला air organization of the u.S. Army to कंट्रोल its अपना संस्थापना and support personnel.
In practice, the AAF थी वस्तुतः autonomous अंदर the फौज.
the शिखर आकार of the aaf थी over 2.4 लाख men and महिलाओं in सेवा और nearly 80,000 aircraft in 1944, and 783 domestic bases in दिसम्बर 1943.
by VE दिन it था 1.25 लाख मेन stationed विदेशी और operated from अधिक than 1,600 airfields worldwide.
The Air Corps became the फौज Air Forces in जून 1941 to provide the air arm a वृहद autonomy in which to expand more efficiently, and to provide a structure for the additional command echelons जरूरी by a vastly increased फ़ोर्स.
हालांकि अन्य राष्ट्र already था पृथक air शक्तियां स्वतंत्र of the army or नेवी ( such as the अंग्रेजों royal Air Force और the German luftwaffe ), the AAF remained a भाग of the United राज्य Army जबतक the संयुक्त States Air फ़ोर्स came into being in सितंबर 1947.
However, in its विस्तार and conduct of the युद्ध, the aaf became अधिक than बस an भुजा of the वृहद organization.
By the end of World युद्ध ii the AAF था become वस्तुतः an independent सेवा.
By विनियमन और executive अनुक्रम, the aaf was a अधीनस्थ agency of the War Department tasked तभी with organizing, प्रशिक्षण, और equipping combat इकाई, limited in जिम्मेदारी to the महाद्वीपीय संयुक्त States, as were the Army मैदान शक्तियां और the Army सेवा शक्तियां.
In reality, Headquarters AAF controlled the conduct of सब aspects of the air युद्ध in every भाग of the संसार, determining एयर नीति and issuing orders without transmitting them through the मुख्य of स्टाफ.
This `` कंट्रास्ट between theory और fact is... fundamental to an understanding of the AAF. ''
The स्वतंत्रता of सूचना अधिनियम ( foia ) is a संघीय स्वतंत्रता of सूचना विधि कि allows लिये the full or partial प्रकटीकरण of previously unreleased सूचना and documents नियंत्रित by the United States सरकारी.
the अधिनियम defines एजेंसी रिकॉर्ड विषय to प्रकटीकरण, outlines अनिवार्य प्रकटीकरण procedures और grants नौ exemptions to the statute.
It थी originally signed into law by अध्यक्ष Lyndon B. जॉनसन, despite his misgivings, on July 4, 1966 as और went into effect the following year.
The Federal Government 's Freedom of सूचना अधिनियम चाहिए नहीं be confused with the different and varying स्वतंत्रता of सूचना अधिनियमों passed by the व्यक्तिगत states.
अनेक of those राज्य अधिनियमों may be समान लकिन not एकसमान to the federal अधिनियम.
The European संघ ( EU ) is an आर्थिक और political संघ of 27 सदस्य राज्य that are located primarily in Europe.
The eu operates through a system of supranational स्वतंत्र institutions and intergovernmental negotiated निर्णय by the सदस्य राज्य.
Institutions of the EU include the यूरोपीय आयोग, the Council of the यूरोपीय Union, the European परिषद, the Court of इंसाफ of the यूरोपीय Union, the European सेंट्रल Bank, the Court of auditors, and the यूरोपीय Parliament.
The यूरोपीय Parliament is निर्वाचित every पाँच years by eu citizens.
the EU 's de facto पूंजी is ब्रसेल्स.
The EU traces इसके origins from the European Coal और Steel Community ( ECSC ) and the European Economic जातियाँ ( eec ), formed by the Inner Six countries in 1951 and 1958 respectively.
in the intervening सालो the जातियाँ और इसके successors have grown in size by the accession of new सदस्य राज्य और in शक्ति by the जोड of नीति areas to इसके remit.
The Maastricht सन्धि स्थापित the European संघ अंतर्गत इसके current name in 1993.
the नवीनतम प्रमुख amendment to the संवैधानिक आधार of the EU, the सन्धि of Lisbon, came into फ़ोर्स in 2009.
the eu has developed a single market through a standardised system of laws that लागू in all सदस्य राज्य.
Within the शेंगेन Area ( which includes 22 eu और 4 non-eu states ) passport नियंत्रण have महरूम abolished.
eu नीतियों उद्देश्य to ensure the फ़्री movement of लोगों, goods, सेवाएं, and पूंजी, enact legislation in इंसाफ and home affairs, और maintain आम policies on व्यापार, agriculture, fisheries और regional विकास.
A मौद्रिक संघ, the eurozone, थी स्थापित in 1999 and is composed of 17 सदस्य states.
Through the Common Foreign और सुरक्षा नीति the eu रै developed a role in बाह्य संबंध and defence.
स्थाई diplomatic missions have महरूम established around the संसार.
the eu is represented at the संयुक्त राष्ट्र, the WTO, the g8 और the g-20.
साथ a संयुक्त जनसांख्यिकी of over 500 million निवासियों, or 7.3 % of the world population, the eu, in 2012, generated a नाममात्र सकल domestic product ( जीडीपी ) of 16.584 खरब us डॉलर, representing approximately 20 % of the वैश्विक जीडीपी when measured in शर्तें of purchasing शक्ति parity, और represents the largest nominal जीडीपी and GDP ppp in the world.
the eu थी the recipient of the 2012 Nobel सलाम Prize.
the Wales national रग्बी league टोली represent Wales in अंतरराष्ट्रीय rugby लीग football matches.
Currently the टोली is seventh in the RLIF World rankings.
the टोली were चलाएं अंतर्गत the auspices of the रग्बी फ़ुटबॉल League, but an स्वतंत्र body, वेल्स रग्बी League, अभी runs the team from कार्डिफ.
A कुल of तीन Welsh खिलाड़ी have been entered into the Rugby League Hall of Fame.
समान to many other Welsh national sporting teams, वेल्स strip रै been primarily रेड लिये many years, including now.
However in their पिछला World कप अभियान in 2000 they किया wear a कमीज़ featuring the Welsh ध्वज, adding a touch of green और white.
the team is known as `` the ड्रेगन '' और so the teams लोगो on the कमीज़ is a red dragon.
The team तिथि वापस to 1907, making them the third oldest नेशनल side after इंग्लैण्ड और New Zealand.
And it was a touring नई जीलैंड पक्ष that वेल्स first played विरूद्ध in 1908, winning 9-8 at Aberdare.
Since then Wales have regularly निभाई इंग्लैण्ड, since 1935 फ़्रांस, as खूब as सत्कार the touring ऑस्ट्रेलिया और नई Zealand teams, although वे rarely toured themselves, not playing a match in the Southern गोलार्ध जबतक 1975.
लिये twenty-six years Wales competed against उनके दो biggest rivals, इंग्लैण्ड और फ़्रांस, in the European राष्ट्र कप, जीतना the trophy चार times.
Wales have also competed in the World Cup on three अवसरों, the पहला time होने in 1975.
In 1995 और 2000 they था उनके most successful tournaments to date, surprisingly बनाना the Semi-Finals on both occasions before होने beaten by इंग्लैण्ड and ऑस्ट्रेलिया respectively.
Wales विफल to qualify for the 2008 संसार कप, being the दूसरी उच्चतम ranked side नहीं to do so, having lost to स्कॉटलैंड on अंक अंतर over two मिलान.
in 2008 Australian जॉन डिक्सन became the new head कोच और नियुक्त Lee briers as कप्तान, having played लिये वेल्स चूंकि 1998.
In recent सीज़न Wales have taken विशाल strides अंतर्गत former player Iestyn हैरिस जो has coached Wales to वापस to back European Cup successes, जिससे culminated in a Four राष्ट्र रूप in 2011.
Cardiomyopathy ( literally `` heart मांसपेशी disease '' ) is the measurable deterioration of the function of the myocardium ( the दिल muscle ) लिये any reason, usually अग्रणी to दिल failure ; common symptoms are dyspnea ( breathlessness ) और परिधीय एडिमा ( सूजन of the टाँगे ).
People with cardiomyopathy are often at रिस्क of खतरनाक forms of irregular दिल ताल और अचानक cardiac मौत.
the सबसे common form of cardiomyopathy is dilated cardiomyopathy.
बकवास in इसके शाब्दिक अर्थ refers to the अधिनियम of sexual intercourse.
it is an अंग्रेज़ी शब्द कि is often used as a profanity, either to denote disdain or as an intensifier.
The origin of the word is अस्पष्ट.
It is प्रायः considered to be पहला attested to around 1475, but it may be considerably older.
In modern उपयोग, बकवास and its derivatives ( ऐसे as fucker और fucking ) can be used in the position of a संज्ञा, a verb, an adjective or an क्रियाविशेषण.
वहीँ हैं many आम phrases which मेक use of the word, as well as a क्रमांक of compounds incorporating it, ऐसे as motherfucker.
Note : this article adopts the u.S. Department of Transportation 's परिभाषा of a passenger गाडी, to mean a car or truck, used लिये passengers, excluding बसें and trains.
The United States is घर to the largest passenger गाडी मार्केट of any देश in the संसार.
overall, वहीँ were an अनुमानित 254.4 लाख पंजीकृत passenger वाहनों in the संयुक्त राज्य according to a 2007 बिन्दु पढ़ाई.
This number, साथ साथ the औसत age of वाहनों, रै increased steadily since 1960, indicating a growing क्रमांक of वाहनों per capita.
The Chinese car market, however, is poised to जल्द exceed the United राज्य ; by the समाप्त of 2012, there were over 240 million cars on the सड़क in China.
the United States is also घर to three विशाल vehicle manufacturers : सामान्य Motors, Ford Motor Company और क्रिसलर, which have historically been referred to as the `` Big तीन. ''
Chrysler however is no longer among the top तीन ; but is क्रमांक पाँच, behind टोयोटा और होंडा.
The मोटर car has clearly become an integral part of American life, साथ vehicles outnumbering licensed ड्राइवर.
नैदानिक प्रयोगशाला in a Hospital सेटिंग showing अनेक automated analysers.
A medical प्रयोगशाला or clinical प्रयोगशाला is a laboratory जहाँ tests are done on नैदानिक specimens in अनुक्रम to get सूचना about the health of a रोगी as pertaining to the निदान, treatment, and रोकथाम of बीमारी.
in poker, players construct हैंड्स of five cards according to predetermined rules, which vary according to which variant of पोकर is होने निभाई.
ये hands हैं compared using a hand रैंकिंग प्रणाली कि is standard across सब variants of पोकर, the खिलाड़ी with the highest-ranking hand जीतना that particular deal in most विसंगतियाँ of poker.
in some विसंगतियाँ, the lowest-ranking हाथ can जीत or tie.
These हाथ rankings हैं also प्रयुक्त in some other कार्ड खेल, and in पोकर dice.
the ranking of a particular हाथ is increased by including अनेक cards of the same कार्ड rank, by सब five ताश होने from the वही सूट, or by all five ताश होने of consecutive रैंक.
the सापेक्ष ranking of the various हाथ categories is आधारित on the probability of being randomly dealt ऐसे a हाथ from a well- shuffled डेक.
ब्रूस Randall hornsby ( born November 23, 1954 ) is an अमरीकी virtuoso ; a singer, pianist, synthesizer, accordion, और dulcimer player, and songwriter.
ज्ञात लिये the spontaneity और रचनात्मकता of his live performances, hornsby draws अक्सर इससे शास्त्रीय, jazz, bluegrass, folk, Motown, gospel, चट्टान, blues, और jam बैंड musical traditions with his songwriting और the seamless improvisations contained भीतर.
hornsby 's recordings have महरूम recognised on a क्रमांक of occasions with उद्योग पुरस्कार, including the Best New Artist Grammy in 1987 साथ ब्रूस Hornsby और the Range, the Best Bluegrass Recording ग्रैमी in 1990, और the Best Pop इंस्ट्रूमेंटल Grammy in 1993.
Hornsby has भी हासिल मान्यता लिये उसके सोलो एल्बम और प्रदर्शन, उसके touring band Bruce Hornsby and the Noisemakers, his bluegrass प्रोजेक्ट with Ricky skaggs और उसके दिखावे as a session- और guest-musician.
He भी collaborated with Grateful Dead और was a member of the बैंड from सितंबर 1990 to कूच 1992, playing at over एक hundred shows during कि काल.
Sugarcane plantation in ग्रामीण Cuba
कृषि in Cuba has played an important भाग in the economy for अनेक hundred सालो.
कृषि contributes less than 10 प्रतिशत to the gross domestic उत्पाद ( GDP ), but it employs roughly 20 प्रतिशत of the working population.
About 30 प्रतिशत of the देश 's जमीन is प्रयुक्त for क्रॉप cultivation.
the inefficient agricultural उद्योग in क्यूबा has led to the need to आयात large amounts of भोजन.
क्यूबा now imports परिचय 80 % of the खाना it rations to the पब्लिक.
the rationing कार्यक्रम accounts लिये about a तीसरा of the food उर्जा the औसत क्यूबन consumes.
Overall, however, क्यूबा is निर्भर on imports लिये only 16 % of its खाना.
right
आचमन Millions ( initially called the Big खेल Mega Millions as the successor of the बिग खेल ) is an American multi-jurisdictional $ 1 lottery game.
The first ( The Big Game ) आचमन Millions आरेखण थी in 2002 ( see नीचे ).
the minimum Mega Millions advertised jackpot is $ 12,000,000, paid in 26 equal yearly installments ( unless the cash option is chosen ) ; प्रायः, the जैकपॉट increases when वहीँ is no top-prize winner.
however, despite no जैकपॉट विजेता लिये the $ 12,000,000 दिसम्बर 18, 2012 आरेखण, the जैकपॉट remained at $ 12,000,000 for the drawing to be held on दिसम्बर 21.
( देखिए नीचे लिये information on how the game 's जैकपॉट is वित्तपोषित. )
reflecting आम practice among American lotteries, the jackpot is advertised as a नाममात्र value of सालाना installments.
A नकदी मान option ( the usual चुनाव ), when chosen by a जैकपॉट विजेता ( see नीचे ), pays the approximate उपस्थित मान of the installments.
आचमन Millions फिलहाल uses a 5/56 ( श्वेत गेंदें ) प्लस 1/46 ( the Mega Ball ) दोगुना matrix to select इसके winning संख्याएँ.
Each खेल costs $ 1.
In 43 of the 44 Mega Millions jurisdictions ( कैलिफ़ोर्निया is the एक्सेप्शन ), there is an विकल्प, पुकारा Megaplier ( such games हैं $ 2 प्रत्येक ) where non-jackpot पुरस्कार हैं multiplied by 2, 3, or 4.
The Megaplier थी बना available to सब आचमन Millions jurisdictions in जनवरी 2011 ; it began as a टेक्सास -only विकल्प.
Mega Millions is drawn at 10:59 p.m. Eastern time Tuesdays और शुक्रवार, सहित holidays.
आचमन लाखो is administered by a consortium of इसके 12 असली lotteries और the drawings are held at wsb-tv in अटलांटा, जॉर्जिया.
supervised by the Georgia लॉटरी.
The largest jackpot in आचमन लाखो, as खूब as in अमरीकी lottery history, थी $ 656,000,000 annuitized ( साथ a नकदी option of $ 474,000,000 ) for the March 30, 2012 drawing in which वहीँ were तीन jackpot-winning टिकटें ; one each in इलिनोइस, Kansas, and मेरीलैंड.
सब three tickets had महरूम claimed as of अप्रैल 18, with each नियत of winners choosing the cash option.
is a Japanese manga series निर्मित by writer tsugumi Ohba and manga कलाकार Takeshi Obata.
the प्रमुख character is लाइट Yagami, a high school student जो discovers a अलौकिक notebook, the `` मौत Note '', dropped on Earth by a shinigami ( a परमेश्वर of death ) नामित Ryuk.
the Death Note अनुदान इसके उपयोक्ता the क्षमता to मार anyone जिनकी name और face वे जान, by लिखने the नाम in the notebook जबकि picturing their फेस.
the series centers around लाइट 's attempt to create and नियम a world `` cleansed of evil '' as `` God '' using the कोपी, and the प्रयत्न of a जासूस ज्ञात as L to stop उसे.
मौत नोट थी पहला serialized in 108 अध्याय by shueisha in the जापानी manga पत्रिका Weekly shōnen Jump इससे दिसम्बर 2003 to may 2006.
The series थी also प्रकाशित in tankōbon format in जापानी starting in May 2004 और ending in October 2006 with a कुल of तेरह आयतन.
the anime series aired in Japan इससे अक्तूबर 3, 2006, to जून 26, 2007.
रचित of 37 episodes, the anime was developed by madhouse and directed by tetsuro Araki.
A light novel based on the series, लिखा by nisio Isin, was released in जापानी.
additionally, विभिन्न वीडियो games have been published by Konami लिये निन्टेंडो ds.
the series थी adapted into live-action films released in जापानी on June 17, 2006, नवम्बर 3, 2006, and फ़रवरी 2, 2008.
Viz मीडिया licensed the मौत नोट manga in North अमेरिका और has प्रकाशित सब the बारह volumes from the series, a 13th volume which serves as a `` रीडर 's मार्गदर्शिका '', as well as the light novels.
the episodes इससे the दुश्मनी पहला appeared in उत्तर America as downloadable by ign.
viz बाद licensed the anime श्रेणी and it aired on bionix in Canada और on Cartoon संजाल in the United States.
the live-action films briefly played in certain उत्तर अमरीकी theaters since 2008.
however, none of the वीडियो खेल have यूँ far महरूम प्रकाशित in North अमेरिका or यूरोपीय.
मौत नोट is one of Weekly Shōnen Jumps best-selling manga श्रेणी of सब समय, with बिक्री over 26.5 million copies.
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a संकुचन of `` सब Hallows ' Evening `` ), also ज्ञात as All hallows ' Eve, is a yearly जश्न observed in a क्रमांक of देशों on अक्तूबर 31, the संध्या of the पश्चिमी Christian feast of सब hallows ( or All संतो ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas.
According to many scholars, All Hallows ' Eve is a christianised feast originally बहकावे by western यूरोपीय कटाई festivals, and festivals of the dead साथ संभावित pagan जड़ें, विशेषकर the Celtic Samhain.
अन्य scholars maintain कि it originated independently of samhain and रै solely ईसाई जड़ें.
Typical त्यौहार हैलोवीन क्रियाएँ include trick-or-treating ( भी known as `` guising `` ), उपस्थित costume parties, नक्काशी pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, apple bobbing, visiting haunted attractions, playing pranks, telling scary stories, और watching हॉरर films.
New यॉर्क City taxicabs during midtown rush घंटा in मैनहटन
the taxicabs of New यॉर्क नगर, साथ उनके distinctive yellow paint, are a widely पहचाना icon of the city.
Taxicabs हैं संचालित by private companies and licensed by the New यॉर्क City टैक्सी और Limousine Commission ( TLC ).
it also oversees over 40,000 अन्य for-hire वाहनों, including `` black गाड़ियाँ '', commuter वैन and ambulettes.
`` medallion टैक्सी, '' the familiar yellow cabs, हैं the तभी वाहनों in the city permitted to चुनें up passengers in response to a गली hail.
schematic क्रॉस section of part of पत्ता, जाइलम shown as रेड circles at figure 8.
Xylem is एक of the two types of transport tissue in vascular पौधे ( phloem is the other ).
the शब्द जाइलम is derived from the Greek शब्द ξύλον ( xylon ), अर्थ `` लकडी '' ; the best-known जाइलम tissue is wood, though it is मिला throughout the संयंत्र.
Its basic फलन is to transport water, लकिन it also transports कुछ nutrients through the संयंत्र.
u.S. women suffragists demonstrating for the right to vote, February 1913.
Women 's suffrage भी known as woman suffrage is the सही of women to vote and to चलाएं लिये दफ्तर.
Limited मतदान rights were gained by women in स्वीडन, फिनलैंड and कुछ western u.S. राज्य in the लेट 19th century.
अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन were formed to coordinate efforts, विशेषकर the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Council of Women ( 1888 ) and the International स्त्री Suffrage गठबंधन ( 1904 ).
in 1893, New जीलैंड, then a self-governing अंग्रेजों उपनिवेश, granted adult women the सही to vote और the self-governing British उपनिवेश of दक्षिण Australia did the same in 1895, लकिन also permitted महिलाओं to run लिये office.
Australia federated in 1901, and महिलाओं acquired the सही to vote and stand in federal elections from 1902, though uneven restrictions on aboriginal महिलाओं मतदान in नेशनल चुनावों यहूद not completely removed until 1962.
the पहला यूरोपीय country to introduce महिलाओं 's suffrage was the Grand duchy of फिनलैंड, then भाग of the Russian साम्राज्य, which भी उत्पादित the संसार 's पहला female members of parliament in the 1907 parliamentary चुनावों.
Norway followed, granting पूरा महिलाओं 's suffrage in 1913.
in most Western देशों, महिलाओं 's suffrage came बाद संसार i War i I, साथ कुछ important लेट adopters being France in 1944 and स्विट्ज़रलैंड in 1971.
Women 's suffrage रै generally been recognized बाद political campaigns to obtain it यहूद waged.
in many देशों it थी granted before universal suffrage.
Women 's suffrage is explicitly stated as a सही अंतर्गत the Convention on the विलोपन of All Forms of पक्षपात Against Women, adopted by the United राष्ट्र in 1979.
the Thirteenth Tale ( 2006 ) by Diane Setterfield is a गोथिक suspense अनोखा, the author 's first published किताब.
यहोवा 's गवाह is a millenarian restorationist ईसाई denomination with nontrinitarian मान्यताओं distinct इससे mainstream Christianity.Sources लिये descriptors : • Millenarian : • Restorationist : • Christian : • Denomination : the organization reports विश्वव्यापी membership of over 7.78 million adherents शामिल in इंजीलवाद, convention attendance of over 12 million, and सालाना मेमोरियल attendance of over 19 लाख.
वे are निर्देशित by the शासी देह of Jehovah 's गवाह, a समूह of elders in ब्रुकलीन, New यॉर्क, कि establishes all doctrines.
यहोवा 's गवाह ' मान्यताओं are based on उनके interpretations of the बाइबल और they prefer to उपयोग उनके अपना अनुवाद, the नई World अनुवाद of the Holy शास्त्रों.
वे believe that the विनाश of the present world system at armageddon is imminent, and that the establishment of God 's kingdom on धरती is the तभी solution for सब problems faced by mankind.
the group emerged from the Bible Student गति —founded in the late 1870s by चार्ल्स taze रसेल साथ the formation of Zion 's देखें मीनार ट्रैक्ट Society —with significant organizational और doctrinal changes under the leadership of Joseph Franklin Rutherford.
The name यहोवा 's witnesses, based on Isaiah 43:10–12, was अपनाया in 1931 to distinguish themselves इससे अन्य बाइबल छात्र groups and symbolize a ब्रेक with the विरासत of Russell 's परंपराओं.
Jehovah 's गवाह हैं best known लिये their door-to-door preaching, distributing literature such as The Watchtower और जाग !
, and refusing military service and रक्त transfusions.
They consider उपयोग of the नाम Jehovah vital for उचित worship.
वे अस्वीकृत Trinitarianism, अंतर्निहित immortality of the आत्मा, और hellfire, जिससे वे consider to be unscriptural doctrines.
वे do नहीं observe क्रिसमस, ईस्टर, birthdays, or अन्य छुट्टियाँ और customs they consider to have pagan origins असंगत with christianity.
adherents commonly refer to their body of मान्यताओं as `` the truth '' और consider themselves to be `` in the सच्चाई ''.
They consider secular society to be morally corrupt और अंतर्गत the influence of शैतानी, and most सीमा their social बातचीत with non-Witnesses.
Congregational अनुशासनात्मक क्रियाएँ शामिल disfellowshipping, उनके term लिये formal expulsion और shunning.
Baptized individuals जो formally leave are माना disassociated and are also shunned.
disfellowshipped और disassociated individuals may eventually be reinstated if deemed repentant.
The धर्म 's position regarding ईमानदार objection to military service और refusal to सलाम नेशनल flags has brought it into conflict with some सरकारें.
नतीजतन, Jehovah 's गवाह have महरूम persecuted and their क्रियाएँ हैं बैन or प्रतिबंधित in some countries.
Persistent legal चुनौतियां by Jehovah 's Witnesses have बहकावे legislation related to सिविल rights in अनेक देशों.
पिछला Tango in पेरिस ( ) is a 1972 Franco-Italian romantic नाटक film directed by बर्नार्डो bertolucci जिससे portrays a recent American widower जो begins an बेनाम यौन संबंध साथ a यंग, betrothed Parisian स्त्री.
it सितारों Marlon ब्रैंडो, Maria श्नाइडर, and jean-pierre Léaud.
The film 's raw portrayal of sexual हिंसा and emotional turmoil led to अंतरराष्ट्रीय controversy और खींचा विभिन्न स्तर of सरकारी सेंसरशिप.
the mpaa दिया the फिल्मी an x दरजा upon release in the संयुक्त States.
बाद revisions were बना to the MPAA ratings code, it थी classified as an nc-17 in 1997.
MGM released a censored r-rated काटें in 1981.
The film has इसके NC-17 दरजा लिये `` some explicit sexual सामग्री. ''
खिड़कियाँ xp is an ऑपरेटिंग system उत्पादित by Microsoft for उपयोग on personal computers, including घर और business desktops, laptops और media centers.
पहला released to कंप्यूटर manufacturers on August 24, 2001, it is the second most लोकप्रिय संस्करण of Windows, based on संस्थापित उपयोक्ता आधार.
The नाम `` xp '' is छोटी लिये `` eXPerience '', highlighting the उन्नत user experience.
Windows xp, the successor to Windows 2000 and खिड़कियाँ me, was the पहला consumer-oriented ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली उत्पादित by Microsoft to be निर्मित on the Windows nt kernel.
खिड़कियाँ XP थी released worldwide लिये खुदरा sale on अक्तूबर 25, 2001, and over 400 लाख copies यहूद in उपयोग in जनवरी 2006.
It was succeeded by खिड़कियाँ Vista in जनवरी 2007.
Direct oem और खुदरा sales of Windows xp ceased on जून 30, 2008.
Microsoft जारी to sell Windows XP through उनके System बिल्डर ( smaller OEMs जो बेचें समवेत कंप्यूटर ) कार्यक्रम until January 31, 2009.
on April 10, 2012, microsoft reaffirmed that विस्तारित support लिये खिड़कियाँ XP और दफ्तर 2003 होता end on अप्रैल 8, 2014 और suggested कि administrators begin preparing to migrate to a newer OS.
the NT -based संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ, which are प्रोग्रामित in C, C++, and assembly, हैं ज्ञात for उनके improved स्थिरता और दक्षता over the 9x versions of Microsoft Windows.
Windows XP presented a significantly redesigned आलेखीय उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस, a change Microsoft promoted as more user-friendly than पिछला versions of Windows.
In an attempt to further ameliorate the `` dll नरक `` that plagued the पास्ट संस्करण of Windows, improved side-by-side assembly technology in Windows xp allows side-by-side संस्थापना, registration और सर्विसिंग of multiple संस्करण of globally shared तन्त्र components in full अलगाव.
it is also the पहला संस्करण of Windows to उपयोग product activation to कॉम्बैट illegal copying.
During Windows xp 's development, the project थी codenamed `` whistler '', after Whistler, अंग्रेजों Columbia, as many microsoft कर्मचारी skied at the whistler-blackcomb ski resort.
According to web analytics आंकड़ा उत्पन्न by जाल Applications, खिड़कियाँ XP was the most widely used operating प्रणाली until August 2012, जब Windows 7 overtook it.
, Windows XP market share is at 38.99 %, having decreased लगभग every month since at तनिक November 2007, the पहला month for which आंकडे are सरेआम उपलब्धियाँ from Net Applications.
`` Por una cabeza '' is an Argentine tango with music और lyrics written in 1935 by Carlos gardel and Alfredo Le प्रभा क्रमशः.
the name is a Spanish horse-racing phrase अर्थ `` by a सिर '', जिससे refers to a घोड़ा जीतना a race by the length of one सिर.
The गीत speak of a बाध्यता horse-track जुआरी जो compares his व्यसन लिये घोड़े with his attraction to महिलाओं.
अल्फ्रेडो le प्रभा was a ब्राज़ीलियाई इससे são Paulo, a much italian-influenced क्षेत्रफल in Brazil, and also the birthplace of Zequinha de Abreu, composer of tico-tico no Fubá.
Le प्रभा और gardel died in an airplane crash in medellín, ( Colombia ), on जून 24, 1935.
Por ऊना Cabeza
the टैंगो रै चूंकि महरूम performed by numerous टैंगो orchestras.
टैंगो दृश्यों with `` पोर una cabeza '' appear in Delicatessen ( 1991 ), Scent of a स्त्री ( 1992 ), schindler 's List ( 1993 ), सच्चा Lies ( 1994 ), टाइटैनिक ( 1996 ), Bad Santa ( Uncut Version, 2003 ), All the किंग 's Men ( 2006 ), Planet 51 ( 2009 ), episode 37 of Nip/Tuck ( 2003–2010 ), episode 9 of South कोरियाई नाटक श्रेणी Sweet Spy ( 2005–08 ), the beginning and ending credits of the South कोरियाई नाटक ब्रॉडकास्ट i 'm Sorry, i Love You ( 2004 ), and the episode `` Down the Rabbit Hole `` ( 2007 ).
in the movie Frida ( सलमा हायेक, 2002 ), Gardel is सुना singing it on a radio.
it is also quoted in दाउद Del Tredici 's `` शुभ न्यूज !
nilda is वापस '' ( from the सोंग cycle Miz inez sez ).
in सैंट of a स्त्री ( 1992 ), the tango is performed by the `` The टैंगो प्रोजेक्ट '', who दरअसल appear in the नाचना scene starring al पचिनो ( the रिकॉर्डिंग प्रयुक्त is available on one of उनके cd albums ).
John Williams arranged a version of the टुकड़ा कि appears on the album `` सिनेमा Serenade '' साथ the सारंगी सोलो performed by Itzhak Perlman.
Perlman और Williams ( conducting ) have भी performed the piece together in live concerts.
in 2012 a नृत्य संस्करण was released by the समूह `` da करेरा '' featuring the असली vocal recording by कार्लोस gardel.
The baroreflex or baroreceptor reflex is एक of the body 's homeostatic mechanisms लिये maintaining रक्त pressure.
It provides a negative feedback लूप in which an elevated रक्त pressure reflexively causes दिल rate to decrease इसलिए causing रक्त pressure to decrease ; likewise, decreased रक्त pressure activates the baroreflex, causing दिल rate to increase thus causing an increase in रक्त pressure.
The प्रणाली relies on specialized न्यूरॉन्स, known as baroreceptors, in the aortic arch, carotid साइनस, and elsewhere to monitor परिवर्तन in blood दबाव और रिले उन्हें to the brainstem.
Subsequent परिवर्तन in blood दबाव are mediated by the autonomic बेचैन system.
Atrial natriuretic पेप्टाइड फ़ॉर्म a समानांतर negative feedback loop in an endocrinological कंट्रास्ट to the renin-angiotensin प्रणाली.
the loma prieta earthquake, भी known as the भूकंप of '89 and the संसार श्रेणी भूकंप, थी a प्रमुख भूकंप कि struck the सैन फ्रांसिस्को Bay क्षेत्रफल of कैलिफ़ोर्निया on October 17, 1989, at 5:04 pm local time.
caused by a स्लिप along the San andreas Fault, the quake lasted 10–15 सेकेंड and measured 6.9 on दोनो the पल magnitude scale ( surface-wave परिमाण 7.1 ) and on the open-ended रिक्टर Scale.
The quake killed 63 people throughout उत्तरी California, injured 3,757 और left some 3,000–12,000 people homeless.
The भूकंप occurred during the warm-up practice for the third game of the 1989 संसार Series, featuring दोनो of the Bay Area 's प्रमुख लीग Baseball teams, the Oakland एथलेटिक्स and the San Francisco Giants.
Because of game-related खेल coverage, इस was the first प्रमुख भूकंप in the United राज्य to have इसके आरंभिक धक्का broadcast सजीव on television.
Pawn in the standard staunton पैटर्न
the pawn ( ♙♟ ) is the most numerous और in most हालातों the weakest टुकड़ा in the game of chess, historically representing infantry or, अधिक विशेषकर, armed peasants or pikemen.
In chess, प्रत्येक खिलाड़ी begins the खेल साथ आठ pawns, one on each वर्गाकार of the rank immediately in सामने of the other pieces.
( In बीजीय notation, the white प्यादे प्रारंभ on a2, b2, c2,..., h2, जबकि ब्लैक प्यादे start on a7, b7, c7,..., h7. )
व्यक्तिगत प्यादे are referred to by the संचिका on जिससे they stand.
लिये उदाहरण, one बोलती of `` श्वेत 's f-pawn '' or `` Black 's b-pawn '', or less commonly ( using वर्णनात्मक संकेतन ), `` White 's king 's bishop साहूकार '' or `` ब्लैक 's महारानी 's knight साहूकार ''.
It is also common to refer to a rook साहूकार, अर्थ कोई pawn on the a- or h-file, a नाईट pawn ( on the b- or g-file ), a बिशप pawn ( on the c- or f-file ), a queen साहूकार ( on the d-file ), a किंग pawn ( on the e-file ), and a सेंट्रल साहूकार ( on either the d- or e-file ).
the military forces of the संसार have differing approaches to the enlistment of homosexual ( gay and लेस्बियन ) and द्विलिंगी individuals.
the armed शक्तियां of सबसे विकसित देशों have अभी removed नीतियों excluding non-heterosexual individuals ( with strict नीतियों on यौन उत्पीड़न ).
Nations that permit gay लोगों to serve openly in the military include the 4 of the 5 सदस्यों of the un सुरक्षा Council ( संयुक्त States, संयुक्त Kingdom, फ़्रांस, और रूस ), the गणतंत्र of China ( Taiwan ), Australia, इसराईल, दक्षिण Africa, अर्जेंटीना, and all नाटो सदस्यों excluding तुर्कों.
Hydrogen production is the परिवार of industrial methods लिये generating हाइड्रोजन.
Currently the dominant technology for सीधा production is steam reforming from hydrocarbons.
Many अन्य विधि हैं ज्ञात including electrolysis and thermolysis.
in 2006, the संयुक्त राज्य was estimated to have a उत्पादन क्षमता of 11 million टन of हाइड्रोजन.
5 लाख टन of हाइड्रोजन were consumed on-site in oil refining, and in the उत्पादन of अमोनिया ( Haber process ) and methanol ( कटौती of carbon monoxide ).
0.4 लाख tonnes were an incidental by-product of the chlor-alkali process.
Hydrogen उत्पादन is an estimated $ 100 billion industry.
A आधार point ( प्रायः denoted as bp, colloquially referred to in the बहुवचन as `` bips '', भी ज्ञात as a `` beep '' ) is a unit equal to एक hundredth of a प्रतिशत पाइंट, or one part per टेन हजार, 1/10000.
the वही ईकाई is भी ( rarely ) called a permyriad, literally meaning 'for ( every ) असंख्य ( ten हजार ) ', and in कि context is written with which looks like a प्रतिशत चिह्न ( % ) साथ दो अतिरिक्त zeroes at the end ( जैसे a stylized form of the four zeros in the denominator, हालांकि it originates as a प्राकृतिक एक्सटेंशन of the percent ( % ) and permille ( ‰ ) लक्षण ).
A basis point is पारिभाषित as:
1 basis पाइंट = 1 permyriad = एक one-hundredth प्रतिशत
1 bp = 1 = 0.01 % = 0.1‰ = 10−4 = = 0.0001
1 % = 100 bp = 100
आधार अंक हैं used as a सुविधाजनक ईकाई of मापन in contexts जहाँ प्रतिशत differences of less than 1 % हैं discussed.
the सबसे common उदाहरण is ब्याज दरों, where differences in ब्याज दरों of less than 1 % per year हैं प्रायः meaningful to talk परिचय.
For example, a अंतर of 0.10 percentage points is equivalent to a change of 10 आधार अंक ( e.g. a 4.67 % रेट increases by 10 basis अंक to 4.77 % ).
जैसे percentage points, basis अंक avoid the ambiguity between सापेक्ष और absolute चर्चाएँ परिचय interest rates by dealing तभी with the absolute बदलें in numeric value of a rate.
For example, if a रपट says there has been a `` 1 % increase '' from a 10 % ब्याज रेट, this could refer to an बढ़ाएँ either from 10 % to 10.1 % ( relative, 1 % of 10 % ), or इससे 10 % to 11 % ( निरपेक्ष, 1 % प्लस 10 % ).
if, however, the रपट says there रै महरूम a `` 10 आधार point बढ़ाएँ '' from a 10 % ब्याज रेट, then we know that the interest रेट of 10 % has increased by 0.10 % ( the निरपेक्ष बदलें ) to a 10.1 % rate.
it is आम अभ्यास in the वित्तीय उद्योग to use आधार अंक to denote a rate बदलें in a financial instrument, or the अंतर ( स्प्रेड ) between दो ब्याज दरों, सहित the yields of fixed-income securities.
Since certain लोन और bonds may commonly be कोटेड in relation to कुछ अनुक्रमणिका or underlying सुरक्षा, वे will often be quoted as a स्प्रेड over ( or अंतर्गत ) the अनुक्रमणिका.
लिये example, a loan कि bears ब्याज of 0.50 % per annum ऊपर the London Interbank offered रेट ( LIBOR ) is कहा to be 50 आधार अंक over LIBOR, जिससे is commonly expressed as `` l+50bps '' or simply `` L+50 ''.
the पद `` आधार पाइंट '' रै its origins in व्यापार the `` basis '' or the स्प्रेड between two interest rates.
Since the basis is usually छोटी, ये हैं quoted multiplied up by 10000, और hence a `` full point '' गति in the `` basis '' is a आधार point.
Contrast with pips in FX forward markets.
The relationship between percentage परिवर्तन and आधार अंक can be summarized as follows : 1 percentage point change = 100 आधार points, and 0.01 प्रतिशत अंक = 1 आधार पाइंट.
So, a बंध जिनकी उपज increases इससे 5 % to 5.5 % is कहा to बढ़ाएँ by 50 आधार अंक ; or ब्याज rates that have risen 1 प्रतिशत पाइंट are said to have increased by 100 basis points.
The अंग्रेजों royal Family is the group of बंद रिश्तेदारों of the monarch of the संयुक्त Kingdom.
the term is also commonly applied to the वही समूह of लोगों who हैं the संबंध of the monarch in her or उसके role as sovereign of any of the अन्य Commonwealth realms, यूँ sometimes at variance with आधिकारिक national terms लिये the family.
सदस्यों of the royal परिवार belong to, either by birth or विवाह, the हाउस of Windsor, since 1917, जब George v बदला the name of the royal house from saxe-coburg and gotha.
इस निर्णय was primarily लिया because ब्रिटेन और her साम्राज्य were at युद्ध साथ जर्मनी and दिए the अंग्रेजों royal परिवार 's strong जर्मनी ancestry ; it थी felt कि इसके public चित्र could be improved by चुनना a अधिक अंग्रेजों house name.
The नई नाम चुनी, Windsor, था बिल्कुल no कनेक्शन other than as the नाम of the किला which थी और continues to be a royal residence.
हालांकि in the United किंगडम वहीँ is no strict विधिक or औपचारिक definition of जो is or is not a सदस्य of the royal परिवार, और अलग lists होगा शामिल different people, those carrying the style उसके or उसके Majesty ( HM ), or उसके or उसके royal highness ( hrh ) हैं सदा माना members, which usually results in the application of the term to the monarch, the consort of the monarch, the widowed consorts of previous monarchs, the children of the monarch और पिछला monarchs, the male-line grandchildren of the monarch और पिछला monarchs, and the spouses और the widows of a monarch 's and पिछला monarch 's sons और male-line grandsons.
on 30 November 1917, King George v जारी अक्षर पेटेंट defining who are members of the royal परिवार ; the टेक्स्ट of the सूचना इससे the लंदन गजट is as follows:
In 1996, Her majesty the Queen परिवर्धित ये अक्षर पेटेंट, as was evidenced by इस सूचना from the London gazette:
In 2013 Letters पेटेंट यहूद issued to extend a शीर्षक और a स्टाइल borne by members of the royal Family to अतिरिक्त persons to be born, evidenced by this Notice इससे the लंदन gazette:
सदस्यों और रिश्तेदारों of the अंग्रेजों Royal परिवार historically represented the monarch in various places throughout the British साम्राज्य, sometimes लिये विस्तारित periods as viceroys, or for specific ceremonies or कार्यक्रम.
आज, they often perform ceremonial और social कर्तव्य throughout the संयुक्त किंगडम और abroad on behalf of the संयुक्त किंगडम.
aside इससे the monarch, उनके तभी संवैधानिक भूमिका in the अफेयर्स of government is to serve, if eligible और जब नियुक्त by letters पेटेंट, as a Counsellor of राज्य, two or अधिक of whom exercise the प्राधिकार of the Crown ( भीतर stipulated limits ) in the indisposal or अनुपस्थिति from the अंग्रेजों realm of the monarch.
in the अन्य realms of the Commonwealth royalty do not serve as counsellors of State.
However in each ऐसे realm the monarch 's परिवार सदस्यों may अधिनियम on निमित्त of, are वित्तपोषित by, और represent the sovereign of that particular state, और नहीं the संयुक्त किंगडम.
the महारानी, her consort, उसके children और grandchildren, as well as सब former sovereigns ' children and grandchildren थाम places in the पहला भाग of the official आदेश of पूर्वता in England and Wales, Scotland, और Northern आयरलैंड.
Wives of the said आनंद their husbands ' पूर्वता, and husbands of princesses हैं unofficially लकिन habitually लगाई साथ उनके पत्नियां as well.
However, the महारानी changed the निजी order of precedence in the royal परिवार in पक्ष of Princesses ऐनी और Alexandra, who henceforth take निजी पूर्वता over the Duchess of कॉर्नवॉल, जो is वरना the फ्रेम 's highest रैंकिंग woman after the महारानी herself.
She किया not alter the सापेक्ष precedence of अन्य born-princesses, such as the daughters of उसके younger बेटे.
हैती ( ; Haitian Creole Ayiti ), officially the Republic of Haiti ( ; ), is a caribbean देश.
it occupies the पश्चिमी, smaller portion of the द्वीप of हिस्पानिओला, in the Greater Antillean archipelago, जिससे it साझा साथ the Dominican गणतंत्र.
Ayiti ( जमीन of ऊँची kyu ) थी the indigenous Taíno or amerindian name for the द्वीप.
The country 's highest point is pic la Selle, at.
The कुल area of हैती is and its capital is port-au-prince.
Haitian Creole and फ्रेंच are the आधिकारिक languages.
Haiti 's क्षेत्रीय, historical, और ethno-linguistic स्थिति is unique लिये several reasons.
It थी the पहला स्वतंत्र स्वदेश of Latin अमेरिका and the Caribbean, the पहला black -led republic in the संसार, and the second गणतंत्र in the americas जब it gained independence in 1804 as part of a कामयाब slave क्रान्ति स्थायी nearly a दशक.
In 2012, Haiti announced इसके इरादे to seek संबद्ध membership औकात in the African Union.
Haiti is the most populous of the predominantly francophone स्वतंत्र राष्ट्र in the americas.
It is one of तभी two independent राष्ट्र in the Americas ( along साथ Canada ) to designate French as an official language ; the other French-speaking क्षेत्रों हैं all overseas départements, or collectivités, of फ़्रांस.
Haiti is the सबसे populous पूरा member-state of the caribbean जातियाँ ( CARICOM ).
It is the poorest country in the Americas as measured by the इंसान Development Index.
राजनैतिक violence has occurred regularly throughout इसके इतिहास, अग्रणी to government instability.
Most recently, in February 2004, a तख्तापलट d'état originating in the उत्तर of the देश मजबूर the इस्तीफा और निर्वासन of अध्यक्ष Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
a provisional government took कंट्रोल with security provided by the संयुक्त राष्ट्र Stabilization Mission in हैती ( minustah ).
michel martelly, the वर्तमान president, थी निर्वाचित in the haitian general चुनाव, 2011.
the द्वीप has had a इतिहास of destructive earthquakes.
a 7.0 magnitude भूकंप struck Haiti on 12 January 2010 और तबाह port-au-prince.
the highest reliable death गिनती was estimated at 220,000.
haitian सरकारी estimates यहूद higher.
The अध्यक्षीय palace, पार्लियामेंट और many अन्य important structures were नष्ट, along with countless घरों और businesses, leaving hundreds of thousands of people बेघर.
the country has yet to recover इससे the 2010 भूकंप ( और subsequent incidents ) due to दोनो the गंभीरता of the damage Haiti endured in 2010, as खूब as a सरकारी that was अप्रभावी well पहले the भूकंप.
United राज्य aid organizations have donated $ 2 अरब.
संयुक्त साथ अन्य अंतरराष्ट्रीय donations, ये निधि हैं intended to contribute to the पुनर्निर्माण of the देश.
The खूनी Beetroots is the pseudonym of Sir Bob Cornelius Rifo, the इतालवी electro हाउस and dance-punk म्यूज़िक producer, dj and photographer.
The Bloody Beetroots is well-known लिये the black Venom mask he wears during performances.
in फैक्ट, the only identifying पब्लिक विशेषता of rifo is the year `` 1977 '' tattooed across his chest, जिससे is both the year कि the producer and punk-rock was born.
`` The Bloody beetroots dj set '' contains Sir bob Cornelius rifo और टॉमी चाय.
a Motorola Advisor alphanumeric पेजर प्रयुक्त in ब्राज़ील in the 1990s, संचालित by teletrim
a पेजर is a wireless दूरसंचार यंत्र कि receives and displays numeric or टेक्स्ट messages, or receives और announces voice संदेश.
one-way pagers can only receive संदेश, while जवाब pagers and two-way pagers can भी acknowledge, reply to, और originate संदेश using an आतंरिक ट्रांसमीटर.
pagers operate as भाग of a paging प्रणाली जिससे शामिल one or अधिक fixed ट्रांसमीटरों ( or in the case of response pagers and two-way pagers, एक or अधिक आधार stations ), as well as a number of pagers carried by mobile users.
These प्रणालियों can दायरा इससे a restaurant प्रणाली साथ a single low-power ट्रांसमीटर, to a nationwide प्रणाली साथ हज़ारों of high-power आधार स्टेशन.
एक of the पहला practical paging services थी शुभारम्भ in 1950 for physicians in the New York नगर क्षेत्रफल.
Physicians paid us $ 12 per month for the सेवा और carried a ( 6 oz ) पेजर that would receive phone messages भीतर ( 25 mi ) of a सिंगल transmitter मीनार.
The system थी manufactured by the Reevesound कम्पनी and संचालित by telanswerphone.
in 1960, John फ्रांसिस Mitchell संयुक्त तत्व of मोटोरोला 's walkie talkie और automobile रेडियो technologies to create the पहला transistorized पेजर, और from इस पाइंट, paging technology जारी to advance, and पेजर adoption जारी to expand, जबतक the early 1990s.
however, by the mid-1990s, as सेल्यूलर technologies became cheaper and more widely available, उन्नत services began to displace paging as a commercial उत्पाद.
आज, pagers मौजूद largely as niche products, ढूंढना preferential उपयोग in अनुप्रयोग ऐसे as अस्पताल, public safety, और retail स्थितियाँ जहाँ their simplicity, high विश्वसनीयता, and low cost represent significant advantages.
Reevesville is a कस्बा in dorchester काउंटी, South कैरोलिना, United States.
The population थी 196 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
As defined by the U.S. दफ्तर of Management और Budget, और प्रयुक्त by the u.S. जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो लिये statistical purposes तभी, Reevesville is शामिल भीतर the charleston-north Charleston-Summerville metropolitan area.
frida Kahlo de Rivera ( born Magdalena कार्मेन Frieda Kahlo y Calderón ; July 6, 1907 – जुलाई 13, 1954 ) was a मैक्सिकन चित्रकार, born in Coyoacán, who is बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये her self-portraits.
Kahlo 's life began और ended in Mexico नगर, in her घर known as the Blue हाउस.
वो gave उसके birth date as जुलाई 7, 1910, लकिन उसके birth प्रमाणपत्र shows July 6, 1907.
kahlo था allegedly चाही the year of her जनम to coincide with the साल of the शुरूआत of the मैक्सिकन क्रान्ति so कि उसके life होता शुरू with the birth of modern Mexico.
Her कार्य has been मनाये in मैक्सिको as emblematic of नेशनल and indigenous परंपरा, and by feminists लिये its uncompromising चित्रण of the मादा experience and form.
मैक्सिकन culture और amerindian cultural tradition are महत्वपूर्ण in उसके work, which रै been sometimes characterized as naïve आर्ट or folk art.
उसके कार्य has also महरूम वर्णित as `` surrealist '', and in 1938 आंद्रे Breton, principal initiator of the surrealist गति, described kahlo 's art as a `` रिबन around a बमबारी ''.
Kahlo had a volatile marriage with the प्रसिद्ध मैक्सिकन artist Diego रिवेरा.
वो suffered lifelong स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं.
Many of her health समस्याएं were the परिणाम of a ट्रैफ़िक accident वो survived as a किशोरावस्था.
Recovering इससे her injuries पृथक उसके from अन्य people और this अलगाव influenced her works, many of which हैं self-portraits of एक sort or another.
kahlo सुझाया, `` I पेंट myself because i am so प्रायः अलोन and क्युकी i am the विषय i know best. ''
वो भी stated, `` I was born a bitch.
I was born a painter. ''
300px
theresienwiese on the दिन पहले Oktoberfest 2006
oktoberfest is a 16-day पर्व celebrating बियर आयोजित annually in Munich, बायर्न, Germany, running from late September to the first weekend in अक्तूबर.
it is one of the most प्रसिद्ध events in Germany और is the संसार 's largest fair, with अधिक than 6 लाख people इससे around the संसार attending the event प्रत्येक साल.
to the locals, it is नहीं called Oktoberfest, but `` die wiesn '', after the colloquial नाम of the fairgrounds themselves.
the oktoberfest is an important part of bar culture, having महरूम आयोजित since 1810.
Other शहरों across the world also hold Oktoberfest जश्न, modeled बाद the असली Munich event.
The Munich oktoberfest originally took प्लेस during the sixteen days up to, और including, the first संडे in October.
In 1994, the schedule was परिवर्धित in response to जर्मनी reunification so कि if the first Sunday in अक्तूबर जलप्रपात on the 1st or 2nd, तब the festival होता go on जबतक अक्तूबर 3 ( German एकता दिन ).
Thus, the festival is अभी 17 days जब the first Sunday is October 2 and 18 days when it is October 1.
in 2010, the पर्व lasted until the first Monday in अक्तूबर, to mark the anniversary of the इवेंट.
The festival is आयोजित in an क्षेत्रफल नामित the theresienwiese ( field, or meadow, of therese ), often पुकारा wiesn लिये छोटी, स्तिथ near म्यूनिख 's बीच.
Large quantities of Oktoberfest Beer are खपत, with almost 7 लाख liters served दौरान the 16 day पर्व in 2007.
विज़िटर may also आनंद a चौड़ी variety of traditional खाना ऐसे as hendl ( मुर्गा ), schweinebraten ( रोस्ट pork ), schweinshaxe ( ग्रील्ड ham hock ), steckerlfisch ( ग्रील्ड मछली on a stick ), würstl ( sausages ) साथ with brezeln ( pretzel ), knödel ( आलू or ब्रैड पकौड़ी ), käsespätzle ( cheese नूडल्स ), Reiberdatschi ( आलू pancakes ), sauerkraut or rotkohl/blaukraut ( रेड cabbage ) along साथ ऐसे bar delicacies as obatzda ( a spiced cheese-butter स्प्रेड ) और weisswurst ( a श्वेत सॉसेज ).
a platter साथ चीज and garnishes
Wheels of gouda
Cheese is a generic term for a diverse group of milk-based खाना products.
चीज is produced in wide-ranging flavors, textures, and forms.
चीज consists of proteins and मोटे from मिल्क, प्रायः the मिल्क of cows, भैंस, बकरियों, or शीप.
it is produced by coagulation of the milk प्रोटीन casein.
Typically, the मिल्क is acidified और addition of the enzyme rennet causes जामन.
the solids are अलग और pressed into final form.
कुछ cheeses have molds on the rind or throughout.
सबसे cheeses melt at कुकिंग temperature.
Hundreds of types of cheese इससे विभिन्न देशों are उत्पादित.
उनके styles, बनावट और जायका depend on the उत्पत्ति of the milk ( सहित the animal 's diet ), whether they have महरूम pasteurized, the butterfat content, the जीवाणु और mold, the processing, और aging.
herbs, मसाले, or wood smoke may be used as flavoring agents.
the पीला to red रंग of many cheeses, ऐसे as Red Leicester, is सामान्यतः formed इससे adding annatto.
For a few cheeses, the milk is curdled by adding acids such as vinegar or lemon juice.
Most cheeses हैं acidified to a lesser उपाधि by जीवाणु, which फेरे milk sugars into लैक्टिक acid, तब the जोड of rennet completes the curdling.
शाकाहारी alternatives to rennet are available ; most हैं उत्पादित by fermentation of the कवक mucor miehei, but others have महरूम निकाली from various प्रजाति of the Cynara thistle family.
Cheese is valued for its portability, long जीवन, और high सामग्री of मोटे, प्रोटीन, calcium, और phosphorus.
Cheese is more compact and रै a longer shelf जीवन than milk, although how long a cheese will रखना may निर्भर on the प्रकार of चीज ; labels on पैकेट्स of cheese प्रायः अर्जी that a चीज should be खपत भीतर three to पाँच days of खोलने.
generally speaking, hard cheeses पिछला longer than soft cheeses, such as Brie or goat 's milk चीज.
Cheesemakers निकट a dairy प्रदेश may लाभ इससे fresher, lower-priced मिल्क, और lower shipping लागत.
the long storage life of some चीज, विशेषकर if it is encased in a सुरक्षात्मक rind, allows selling when markets हैं अनुकूल.
Additional संघटक may be added to some cheeses, ऐसे as black मिर्च, garlic, chives or cranberries.
A विशेषज्ञ विक्रेता of चीज is sometimes ज्ञात as a cheesemonger.
to become an विशेषज्ञ in इस field, जैसे wine or कुकिंग, requires कुछ formal शिक्षा और सालो of चख और hands-on experience.
This position is typically जिम्मेदार लिये all पहलुओं of the चीज inventory ; selecting the cheese menu, खरीदना, receiving, storage, and ripening.
विधिक citation सिग्नल are a set of ब्रैड abbreviated वाक्यांश or शब्द used to clarify the प्राधिकार or significance of a legal citation as it relates to a proposition.
सिग्नल help a reader quickly discern meaning or उपयोगिता of a particular reference जब the सन्दर्भ itself करता नहीं provide पर्याप्त सूचना.
Most citation सिग्नल हैं लगाई in सामने of the citation to which they apply.
लिये example, in the अनुच्छेद जब writing a विधिक argument, it is important to refer to प्राथमिक स्त्रोत.
to assist पाठक in locating these स्त्रोत, it is वांछनीय to use a मानकीकृत citation format.
देखिए generally Harvard Law Review Association, the Bluebook : A वर्दी System of citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ).
Note, however, that some न्यायालयों may आवश्यकता कोई विधिक papers that are submitted to उन्हें to conform to a अलग citation format.
the signal is the phrase `` देखिए generally, '' जिससे indicates कि the citation `` The Bluebook : A Uniform प्रणाली of citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ) '' provides सामान्य background सूचना on the टॉपिक.
Neil Alden Armstrong ( अगस्त 5, 1930 – August 25, 2012 ) was an अमरीकी astronaut और the पहला व्यक्ति to walk on the चंद्रमा.
he थी भी an aerospace इंजीनियर, नवल aviator, test pilot, और university प्राध्यापक.
पहले becoming an astronaut, आर्मस्ट्रांग थी an अधिकारी in the U.S. नेवी और served in the Korean War.
बाद the war, he अर्जित उसके bachelor 's degree at purdue University and served as a test पायलट at the नेशनल Advisory कमेटी लिये aeronautics High-Speed Flight स्टेशन, now ज्ञात as the ड्राइडेन Flight शोध बीच, जहाँ he logged over 900 flights.
he बाद समाप्त graduate studies at the University of Southern California.
a भागीदार in the u.S. Air Force 's Man in स्पेस soonest and X-20 Dyna-Soar इंसान spaceflight कार्यक्रम, Armstrong joined the नासा astronaut Corps in 1962.
He बना उसके पहला space उड़ान, as command pilot of मिथुन 8, in 1966, becoming NASA 's first civilian astronaut to fly in स्पेस.
on इस मिशन, he performed the first docking of दो spacecraft, with पायलट दाउद स्कॉट.
Armstrong 's दूसरी और last spaceflight थी as मिशन commander of the अपोलो 11 चंद्रमा लैंडिंग, in July 1969.
On this मिशन, आर्मस्ट्रांग और बज़ Aldrin descended to the चंद्र surface और खर्च two and a half hours exploring, जबकि माइकल कॉलिन्स remained in lunar orbit in the कमांड Module.
साथ with Collins और एल्ड्रिन, आर्मस्ट्रांग was awarded the अध्यक्षीय पदक of Freedom by President Richard Nixon ; in 1978, President jimmy कार्टर प्रस्तुत Armstrong the congressional Space पदक of सम्मान in 1978 ; he और his पूर्व crewmates received the Congressional Gold Medal in 2009.
Armstrong died in सिनसिनाटी, Ohio, on अगस्त 25, 2012, at the age of 82, after complications from coronary धमनी बायपास सर्जरी.
Secretariat ( कूच 30, 1970 – October 4, 1989 ) was an अमरीकी Thoroughbred racehorse that in 1973 became the पहला u.s. Triple क्राउन चैंपियन in 25 years.
he set रेस records in सब तीन कार्यक्रम in the श्रेणी — the केंटकी Derby ( 1:59.4 ), the Preakness Stakes ( 1:53 ), and the Belmont stakes ( 2:24 ) — records कि still स्टैंड आज.
he is considered to be one of the greatest thoroughbreds of all समय.
in 1999, ESPN क्रमित सचिवालय the 35th best खिलाड़ी of the 20th century, the highest रैंकिंग racehorse on the सूची URL_http.
he क्रमित second behind Man o ' युद्ध in the blood-horse 's सूची of the शीर्ष 100 u.S. racehorses of the 20th Century.
Secretariat was sired by Bold Ruler out of Somethingroyal, by princequillo.
He थी foaled at the मर्ग in कैरोलीन County, वर्जिनिया.
Like his famous predecessor Man o ' War, Secretariat was a विशाल शाहबलूत colt और was given the same उपनाम, `` Big Red. ''
सचिवालय 's grandsire, nasrullah, is भी the great-great-grandsire of 1977 ट्रिपल Crown विजेता सिएटल slew.
Owned by Penny Chenery, he was trained by lucien laurin and mainly ridden by कनाडाई jockey Ron Turcotte, along साथ प्रशिक्षु jockey पॉल Feliciano ( पहला दो races ), and veteran एडी Maple ( last रेस ).
He raced in chenery 's Meadow Stable 's blue और श्वेत checkered रंगों and उसके दूल्हे थी एडी Sweat.
सचिवालय stood लगभग tall, और weighed, साथ a 75-inch girth, in उसके रेसिंग prime.
मैड्रिड (, ) is the पूंजी और largest city of Spain.
the जनसांख्यिकी of the नगर is roughly 3.3 लाख and the entire population of the Madrid महानगर क्षेत्रफल is calculated to be around 6.5 लाख.
it is the third-largest city in the European संघ, बाद London और Berlin, and its metropolitan area is the third-largest in the यूरोपीय संघ after लंदन and Paris.
the city spans a कुल of.
the city is located on the Manzanares river in the centre of both the देश और the जातियाँ of मैड्रिड ( जिससे comprises the city of मैड्रिड, its conurbation और extended उपनगरों और villages ) ; this जातियाँ is bordered by the autonomous समुदायों of castile और león and Castile-La मांचा.
as the capital city of Spain, seat of सरकारी, and निवास of the Spanish monarch, मैड्रिड is also the political, economic और cultural केन्द्र of Spain.
the current mayor is Ana Botella इससे the लोगों 's Party ( pp ).
the Madrid शहरी agglomeration रै the third-largest जीडीपी in the यूरोपीय Union और इसके प्रभाव in politics, शिक्षा, entertainment, environment, media, fashion, विज्ञान, संस्कृति, और the arts सब contribute to its औकात as one of the संसार 's major global शहरों.
Due to its आर्थिक आउटपुट, ऊँची मानक of जीना, और market आकार, Madrid is considered the major वित्तीय केन्द्र of दक्षिणी Europe और the इबेरिया प्रायद्वीप ; it होस्ट the head offices of the विशाल बहुमत of the major Spanish कंपनियाँ, ऐसे as Telefónica, Iberia or repsol.
मैड्रिड is the सबसे touristic city of स्पेन, the fourth-most touristic of the महाद्वीप, और the seventh most visited city in the संसार according to Forbes.
is the 10th सबसे livable city in the संसार according to Monocle magazine, in its 2010 index.
Madrid भी बाँधने among the 12 greenest यूरोपीय शहरों in 2010. < ref name= '' एचटीटीपी : //www.citymayors.com/environment/greenest-cities-europe.html '' > Madrid is फिलहाल a प्रत्याशी नगर for the 2020 Summer ओलंपिक.
मैड्रिड houses the headquarters of the संसार Tourism Organization ( wto ), belonging to the संयुक्त Nations Organization ( un ), the segib, the Organization of ibero-american राज्य ( OEI ), and the Public ब्याज Oversight Board ( PIOB ).
It भी hosts major international institutions regulators of Spanish : the Standing कमेटी of the संघ of Spanish भाषा Academies, मुख्यालय of the royal Spanish अकादमी ( RAE ), the Cervantes संस्थान और the Foundation of Urgent स्पेनी ( Fundéu ).
मैड्रिड organizes fairs as FITUR, ARCO, simo tci and the Cibeles Madrid Fashion सप्ताह.
While Madrid possesses a modern अवसंरचना, it रै preserved the dekh and महसूस of many of इसके ऐतिहासिक neighbourhoods और streets.
इसके landmarks शामिल the Royal Palace of मैड्रिड ; the Teatro Real ( royal theatre ) with इसके लौटी 1850 ओपेरा House ; the Buen Retiro Park, संस्थापित in 1631 ; the 19th-century नेशनल Library भवन ( संस्थापित in 1712 ) containing some of Spain 's historical archives ; a large number of National museums, and the सुनहरी त्रिभुज of Art, स्तिथ साथ the Paseo del प्राडो and comprising three आर्ट संग्रहालय : प्राडो Museum, the Museo Nacional Centro de arte Reina sofía, a museum of modern art, and the thyssen-bornemisza संग्रहालय, which completes the shortcomings of the अन्य दो संग्रहालय.
cibeles Palace and Fountain have become the स्मारक symbol of the city.
the पाथ of the Via appia और of the Via appia traiana.
Remains of the Appian Way in Rome, near quarto Miglio
निकट Rome.
The Appian Way ( लैटिन और Italian : Via appia ) थी एक of the earliest और रणनीतिक most महत्वपूर्ण रोमन सड़कें of the प्राचीन गणतंत्र.
It connected Rome to brindisi, Apulia, in southeast Italy.
इसके महत्व is indicated by इसके common नाम, recorded by statius :
Appia teritur regina longarum viarum
`` the Appian रास्ता is the महारानी of the long सड़कें ''
The road is नामित बाद Appius Claudius Caecus, the Roman censor जो began and completed the पहला खण्ड as a military सड़क to the south in 312 BC during the Samnite Wars.
the Draupner wave, a सिंगल दानव वेव measured on नई Year 's दिन 1995, आखिरकार पुष्टि the existence of freak waves, जिससे था previously महरूम considered near-mythical
दुष्ट waves ( भी known as freak लहरें, दानव waves, killer waves, extreme waves, और abnormal waves ) are अपेक्षाकृत विशाल और spontaneous समंदर surface waves कि occur far out at sea, and हैं a threat भी to large जहाजों and समंदर liners.
In oceanography, they are अधिक precisely defined as waves whose ऊँचाई is more than twice the significant wave ऊँचाई ( swh ), जिससे is itself defined as the औसत of the largest third of waves in a wave रिकार्ड.
Therefore दुष्ट waves are नहीं necessarily the biggest लहरें found at समुद्र ; वे हैं, rather, surprisingly large लहरें for a दिए sea state.
दुष्ट waves seem not to have a single distinct कारण, लकिन occur जहाँ physical factors such as ऊँची हवाएँ and दमदार currents cause waves to विलय to create a सिंगल exceptionally विशाल वेव.
Electress sophia of हनोवर ( 1630–1714 )
The लकीर of succession to the British सिंहासन is the ordered अनुक्रम of सब those people योग्य to सफल to the सिंहासन of the संयुक्त Kingdom and the other 15 राष्ट्रमंडल realms.
The Act of उपनिवेश 1701 bestowed उत्तराधिकार on the Electress sophia of Hanover और her descendants while excluding रोमन catholics.
The अंग्रेजों government does not प्रकाशित an official सूची of सब those in लकीर to succeed, but the work of genealogical लेखक और amateur researchers suggests कि वहीँ are several हजार लोगों potentially in लकीर.
at a समिट in Perth, Western Australia in 2011, the heads of government of सब 16 राष्ट्रमंडल realms agreed to लो steps to अपनाना absolute primogeniture, end the exclusion of लोगों शादीशुदा to Roman Catholics, और मेक other परिवर्तन in the succession नियम.
The line of उत्तराधिकार is also used to select the counsellors of राज्य ( and a regent if the need arises ) अंतर्गत the provisions of the रीजेंसी Act 1937.
लिये earlier संस्करण of the लकीर of उत्तराधिकार, देखिए इतिहास of the British लकीर of उत्तराधिकार.
एडवर्ड Montgomery Clift ( अक्तूबर 17, 1920July 23, 1966 ) थी an American फिल्मी और स्टेज actor The New York Times’ obituary विख्यात his portrayal of `` moody, sensitive यंग men ''.
He often played outsiders और `` victim-heroes '' ; examples शामिल the social climber in George स्टीवंस 's a Place in the Sun, the anguished Catholic priest in हिचकॉक 's I कबूल, the doomed नियमित सिपाही रॉबर्ट E. ली prewitt in Fred Zinnemann 's इससे Here to Eternity, and the Jewish gi bullied by antisemites in Edward Dmytryk 's the Young Lions.
Later, बाद a disfiguring car crash in 1956, और alcohol and prescription drug गाली, he became erratic.
Nevertheless important भूमिकाएँ were still उसके, सहित `` the reckless, alcoholic, mother-fixated rodeo performer '' in जॉन Huston 's The misfits, the शीर्षक भूमिका in हस्टन 's, और the concentration शिविर शिकार in स्टेनली क्रेमर 's निर्णय at Nuremberg. ''
क्लिफ्ट प्राप्त चार Academy पुरस्कार nominations during उसके करियर, three for बेहतरीन Actor और one for बेहतरीन Supporting Actor.
The युद्ध on आतंक ( भी known as the Global War on Terrorism ) is a पद commonly लागू to an अंतरराष्ट्रीय military अभियान जिससे प्रारंभ as a परिणाम of the 11 September 2001 terrorist हमले on the United States.
इस resulted in an अंतरराष्ट्रीय सैन्य campaign to eliminate al-qaeda and अन्य उग्रवादी organizations.
the संयुक्त किंगडम and अनेक other NATO और non-NATO राष्ट्र participate in the conflict.
The phrase 'War on आतंक ' थी पहला used by us President George W. Bush on 20 सितंबर 2001.
The Bush administration और the Western मीडिया have since used the पद to signify a global military, राजनैतिक, lawful, और conceptual struggle—targeting दोनो organizations designated as terrorist and regimes अभियुक्त of supporting उन्हें.
it was typically प्रयुक्त with a particular फ़ोकस on उग्रवादी islamists, al-Qaeda, and अन्य jihadi groups.
Although the पद is not officially used by the administration of US अध्यक्ष Barack Obama ( जिससे बजाय uses the term विदेशी Contingency Operation ), it is still commonly used by politicians, in the मीडिया and by कुछ पहलुओं of सरकारी officially, ऐसे as the United States ' वैश्विक War on आतंक Service Medal.
जर्मनी battleship schleswig-holstein, Westerplatte, September 1, 1939
विनाशक USS Shaw exploding बाद her forward पत्रिका थी detonated दौरान the Attack on पर्ल Harbor
the प्रमुख causes of World युद्ध ii यहूद nationalistic issues, unresolved issues, और resentments resulting from World युद्ध I and the interwar period in यूरोपीय, in जोड to the प्रभाव of the Great अवसाद in the 1930s.
The culmination of कार्यक्रम that led to the outbreak of war हैं generally understood to be the 1939 आक्रमण of कैंडल by Germany और Soviet रूस and the 1937 invasion of the Republic of चीन by the साम्राज्य of Japan.
ये सैन्य aggressions यहूद the परिणाम of decisions बना by the सत्तावादी ruling नाजी elite in Germany and by the नेतृत्व of the Kwantung फौज in Japan.
संसार War ii started बाद these aggressive actions were मिले साथ an आधिकारिक declaration of war and/or armed resistance.
The following is a सूची of gods और अन्य दैवी और semi-divine figures from Greek mythology.
the list करता नहीं शामिल creatures ; for ये, see List of Greek mythological जीव.
the Mitsubishi galant is an ऑटोमोबाइल manufactured by Mitsubishi मोटर्स between 1969 and 2012.
the नाम थी derived इससे the French शब्द galant, meaning `` chivalrous ''.
There have महरूम नौ distinct पीढियां, और संचयी sales now exceed पाँच million.
it began as a कॉम्पैक्ट सेडान, लकिन over the course of its life has evolved into a larger mid-size car.
Initial उत्पादन was तभी आधारित in Japan, but चूंकि 1994 the American market has been served by vehicles समवेत at the पूर्व Diamond-Star Motors ( dsm ) facility in Normal, Illinois.
Blood pressure ( BP ), sometimes referred to as arterial blood pressure, is the दबाव exerted by circulating रक्त upon the दीवारें of रक्त vessels, और is one of the principal vital लक्षण.
When प्रयुक्त without further specification, `` रक्त दबाव '' usually refers to the arterial दबाव of the प्रणालीगत परिसंचरण.
During each heartbeat, रक्त pressure varies between a maximum ( systolic ) और a न्यूनतम ( diastolic ) pressure.
The blood दबाव in the circulation is principally due to the pumping action of the heart.
मतभेद in औसत blood pressure are responsible लिये blood प्रवाह इससे one स्थान to another in the परिसंचरण.
The rate of औसत blood प्रवाह depends on the प्रतिरोध to flow प्रस्तुत by the blood vessels.
Mean रक्त pressure decreases as the circulating रक्त चालें away from the heart through arteries और capillaries due to viscous नुकसान of energy.
औसत blood pressure बूंदें over the whole circulation, हालांकि सबसे of the fall occurs along the छोटी arteries and arterioles.
गम्भीरता affects blood दबाव via hydrostatic शक्तियां ( e.g., दौरान खड़ा ) and valves in रगों, breathing, and pumping from संकुचन of skeletal muscles also influence रक्त दबाव in veins.
रक्त pressure without further specification प्रायः refers to the systemic arterial दबाव measured at a person 's अपर भुजा and is a measure of the दबाव in the brachial artery, the major धमनी in the अपर भुजा.
a person’s रक्त दबाव is प्रायः expressed in शर्तें of the systolic pressure over diastolic pressure और is measured in millimetres of पारा ( mmhg ), लिये उदाहरण 120/80.
a veto – लैटिन for `` I forbid '' – is the शक्ति ( प्रयुक्त by an अधिकारी of the state, लिये उदाहरण ) to unilaterally रोकें an official कार्रवाई, especially the enactment of विधान.
A वीटो can be absolute, as for instance in the संयुक्त Nations Security Council, जिनकी permanent members ( चीन, फ़्रांस, रूस, United Kingdom, United States of America ) can ब्लाक any resolution.
or it can be limited, as in the legislative process of the संयुक्त States, where a two-thirds vote in both the House और सीनेट may ओवरराइड a अध्यक्षीय वीटो of legislation.
a वीटो only gives शक्ति to रोकें परिवर्तन, नहीं to adopt them ( मगर लिये the rare `` amendatory वीटो '' ).
यूँ a वीटो allows its holder to protect the status quo.
The अवधारणा of a वीटो body originated with the Roman consuls and tribunes.
either of the two consuls पकड़कर office in a दिए year could ब्लाक a military or सिविल निर्णय by the अन्य ; कोई tribune had the शक्ति to unilaterally block विधान passed by the रोमन सीनेट.
गंधक dioxide ( भी गंधक dioxide ) is the रासायनिक यौगिक with the formula.
it is a toxic gas साथ a pungent, तकलीफदेह महकते, कि is released by ज्वालामुखी और in various industrial प्रक्रियाओं.
चूंकि कोयले और petroleum often contain गंधक compounds, their combustion generates गंधक dioxide unless the sulfur compounds हैं removed before burning the fuel.
further oxidation of so2, प्रायः in the उपस्थिति of a उत्प्रेरक ऐसे as NO2, forms H2SO4, और यूँ acid rain.
गंधक dioxide emissions हैं also a precursor to particulates in the atmosphere.
दोनो of these impacts are cause for चिंता over the environmental impact of ये fuels.
myasthenia ग्रेविस ( इससे यूनानी μύς `` muscle '', `` weakness '', और `` गंभीर '' ; abbreviated mg ) is an autoimmune neuromuscular बीमारी leading to fluctuating मांसपेशी weakness और fatigability.
It is an असंक्राम्य disorder, in जिससे कमज़ोरी is caused by circulating antibodies कि ब्लाक acetylcholine receptors at the postsynaptic neuromuscular junction, inhibiting the excitatory प्रभाव of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine on nicotinic receptors throughout neuromuscular junctions.
Myasthenia is treated medically with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors or immunosuppressants, and, in selected मामले, thymectomy.
The disease incidence is 3–30 cases प्रति लाख प्रति year and rising as a परिणाम of increased awareness.
mg must be विशिष्ट इससे जन्मजात myasthenic syndromes that can present समान symptoms लकिन offer no response to immunosuppressive उपचार.
Reflective मुड़ nematic liquid crystal प्रदर्शक.
polarizing फिल्टर film साथ a vertical अक्ष to polarize light as it enters.
कांच substrate with ito electrodes.
the आकार of these electrodes होगा determine the shapes कि होगा appear जब the एलसीडी is turned on.
लंबवत ridges etched on the surface हैं चिकना.
मुड़ nematic द्रव crystal.
Glass substrate साथ common electrode film ( ito ) साथ horizontal ridges to line up with the आड़ा फिल्टर.
Polarizing filter फिल्मी साथ a आड़ा अक्ष to block/pass light.
परावर्तक surface to send लाइट वापस to दर्शक.
( In a backlit एलसीडी, this layer is replaced साथ a light सोर्स. )
a liquid-crystal प्रदर्शक ( एलसीडी ) is a flat panel प्रदर्शक, इलेक्ट्रॉनिक visual प्रदर्शक, or वीडियो प्रदर्शक कि uses the लाइट modulating properties of liquid crystals.
Liquid crystals do not emit light directly.
LCDs हैं उपलब्धियाँ to display arbitrary बिंब ( as in a general-purpose कंप्यूटर display ) or fixed images जिससे can be displayed or छुपा, ऐसे as preset शब्द, अंक, और 7-segment प्रदर्शक as in a डिजिटल clock.
वे उपयोग the same basic technology, except that मनमानी बिंब हैं बना up of a विशाल number of small पिक्सेल, while अन्य displays have larger elements.
LCDs are used in a चौड़ी range of अनुप्रयोग सहित कंप्यूटर monitors, टेलीविज़न, instrument panels, aircraft कॉकपिट displays, and साइनेज.
वे हैं common in consumer डिवाइस ऐसे as वीडियो players, गेमिंग devices, घड़ियाँ, watches, calculators, और telephones, और have replaced cathode रे tube ( CRT ) displays in most applications.
वे हैं available in a wider range of स्क्रीन आकार than CRT and plasma displays, and since वे do नहीं उपयोग phosphors, वे do नहीं suffer चित्र burn-in.
LCDs are, however, susceptible to image हठ.
The LCD screen is अधिक energy कुशल और can be disposed of more safely than a CRT.
Its low विद्युत power consumption enables it to be used in battery -powered इलेक्ट्रॉनिक उपकरण.
It is an electronically modulated ऑप्टिकल यंत्र made up of कोई क्रमांक of segments भर साथ द्रव crystals and arrayed in front of a लाइट सोर्स ( backlight ) or reflector to produce images in रंग or मोनोक्रोम.
द्रव crystals were first खोजा in 1888.
by 2008, worldwide sales of टेलीविज़न साथ LCD screens exceeded सालाना sales of crt इकाई ; the CRT became obsolete for most purposes.
the borgata Hotel Casino और Spa is a luxury होटल, casino, और स्पा in अटलांटिक City, New जर्सी, United राज्य.
It is स्वामित्व by मरीना ज़िला Development, a joint venture between Boyd गेमिंग और a divesture trust established by mgm रिसॉर्ट International.
The $ 1.1 billion कसीनो होटल features 2,002 कक्ष and is the largest hotel in नई Jersey.
the Borgata खोली in July 2003 as a Las vegas-style megaresort और is the top-grossing casino in Atlantic नगर.
a bottle of ऊँची potency b-complex vitamin supplement गोलियां.
A vitamin ( or ) is an organic यौगिक जरूरी by an सजीव as a vital nutrient in सीमित amounts.
an organic रासायनिक यौगिक ( or सम्बन्धित set of compounds ) is पुकारा a vitamin when it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism, and जरूर be प्राप्त इससे the आहार.
यूँ, the term is सशर्त दोनो on the circumstances and on the particular सजीव.
For उदाहरण, ascorbic एसिड ( vitamin c ) is a vitamin for humans, लकिन not लिये most other animals, और biotin and vitamin d are जरूरी in the human diet तभी in certain circumstances.
by convention, the पद vitamin includes neither other essential nutrients, ऐसे as dietary खनिज, essential fatty acids, or अनिवार्य amino acids ( which हैं needed in larger amounts than vitamins ) nor the विशाल क्रमांक of अन्य nutrients that प्रचार health but हैं वरना required कम often.
तेरह विटामिन हैं universally पहचाना at उपस्थित.
विटामिन are classified by their biological and रासायनिक कार्यकलाप, not उनके structure.
Thus, प्रत्येक `` विटामिन '' refers to a number of vitamer यौगिकों that all दिखाएँ the biological कार्यकलाप संबद्ध with a particular विटामिन.
ऐसे a set of chemicals is grouped under an alphabetized vitamin `` जेनेरिक descriptor '' title, such as `` vitamin a ``, which includes the compounds retinal, रेटिनॉल, and four ज्ञात carotenoids.
Vitamers by definition हैं convertible to the क्रियाशील form of the विटामिन in the देह, और हैं sometimes inter-convertible to एक another, as खूब.
Vitamins have विविध biochemical functions.
कुछ have hormone-like कृत्यों as regulators of खनिज metabolism ( such as विटामिन D ), or regulators of cell and ऊतक growth and differentiation ( such as कुछ forms of vitamin a ).
अन्य function as antioxidants ( e.g., विटामिन e और sometimes vitamin C ).
The largest क्रमांक of विटामिन ( such as b जटिल vitamins ) फलन as precursors लिये एंजाइम cofactors, that सहायता enzymes in their work as catalysts in metabolism.
In this role, विटामिन may be tightly bound to एंजाइमों as भाग of prosthetic groups : For उदाहरण, biotin is part of enzymes शामिल in making fatty acids.
विटामिन may भी be कम tightly bound to एंजाइम catalysts as coenzymes, detachable molecules that function to carry chemical समूह or electrons between अणुओं.
लिये उदाहरण, folic एसिड may carry मिथाइल, formyl, and methylene groups in the cell.
Although these भूमिकाएँ in assisting enzyme-substrate प्रतिक्रियाएँ are विटामिन ' best-known function, the other विटामिन कृत्यों are equally important.
Until the mid-1930s, when the पहला commercial yeast-extract विटामिन B जटिल और semi-synthetic vitamin c संपूरक tablets यहूद sold, विटामिन यहूद obtained solely through खाना intake, और changes in आहार ( जिससे, for example, could occur during a particular growing season ) प्रायः greatly altered the types and amounts of vitamins ingested.
However, विटामिन have been उत्पादित as कमोडिटी chemicals and made widely उपलब्धियाँ as inexpensive semisynthetic and synthetic-source multivitamin dietary and food पूरक and additives, चूंकि the middle of the 20th century.
संसार मुस्लिम population by percentage ( Pew Research Center, 2009 )
World मुस्लिम जनसांख्यिकी in millions
islam is the world 's दूसरी largest धर्म बाद Christianity.
according to a 2010 study, Islam रै 1.62 अरब adherents, बनाना up over 23 % of the world जनसांख्यिकी.
islam is the predominant धर्म in the मध्य East, in Sahel, in the Horn of अफ़्रीकी और northern Africa, and in कुछ parts of Asia.
Large समुदायों of मुसलमान are also found in China, the balkans, और Russia.
Other भाग of the संसार मेजबान विशाल मुस्लिम अप्रवासी communities ; in Western Europe, लिये instance, islam is the second largest धर्म बाद christianity, जहाँ it represents 6 % of the total population.
According to the pew शोध Center in 2010 वहीँ यहूद 49 Muslim-majority countries.
around 62 % of the world 's Muslims सजीव in दक्षिण and southeast Asia, with over 1 अरब adherents.
The largest Muslim देश is Indonesia, घर to 12.7 % of the संसार 's Muslims, followed by Pakistan ( 11.0 % ), इण्डिया ( 10.9 % ), और बांग्लादेश ( 9.2 % ).
About 20 % of Muslims सजीव in अरब देशों.
In the Middle East, the non-arab countries of Turkey और Iran हैं the largest muslim-majority countries ; in Africa, Egypt and Nigeria have the सबसे populous Muslim समुदायों.
a पढ़ाई conducted by the Pew शोध बीच in 2010 and released January 2011 मिला कि there are 1.62 अरब मुसलमान around the संसार.
the पढ़ाई found more मुसलमान in the United किंगडम than in लेबनान और more in China than in Syria.
Rhode द्वीप ( or ), officially the राज्य of rhode Island and विधाता बागानों, is a राज्य in the New इंग्लैण्ड region of the United राज्य.
rhode द्वीप is the smallest in क्षेत्रफल, the eighth तनिक populous, लकिन the second सबसे densely populated of the 50 US states पीछे New जर्सी.
rhode द्वीप is bordered by कनेक्टिकट to the वेस्ट और Massachusetts to the उत्तर and east, और it shares a water boundary साथ नई York 's Long द्वीप to the दक्षिणपश्चिम.
rhode Island थी the पहला of the 13 असली colonies to घोषित independence from British नियम, declaring itself independent on may 4, 1776, दो महीने before any other colony.
The State was also the पिछला of the thirteen असली colonies to ratify the संयुक्त States संविधान.
rhode Island 's आधिकारिक nickname is `` the समंदर राज्य '', a reference to the राज्य 's geography, चूंकि rhode द्वीप has अनेक large bays and inlets that राशि to परिचय 14 % of इसके total area.
Its जमीन क्षेत्रफल is, लकिन इसके कुल क्षेत्रफल is significantly larger.
दुबई ( ; ', ) is a नगर in the संयुक्त अरब Emirates, located भीतर the अमीर of the same name.
The emirate of दुबई is स्तिथ on the southeast coast of the Persian गल्फ on the Arabian Peninsula and is one of the सात emirates कि मेक up the देश.
It रै the largest जनसांख्यिकी in the UAE ( 2,106,177 ) और the second-largest land territory by area ( 4,114 km2 ) after abu Dhabi.
दुबई और Abu धाबी, the national capital, are the only दो अमीरात to have वीटो power over नाजुक matters of नेशनल importance in the country 's legislature.
The नगर of दुबई is स्तिथ on the अमीर 's northern तटरेखा and heads up the Dubai-Sharjah-Ajman metropolitan क्षेत्रफल.
दुबई is nowadays often misperceived as a country or city-state और, in some मामले, the UAE as a पूरे has महरूम वर्णित as 'dubai '.
The earliest जिक्र of दुबई is in 1095 AD, and the earliest अंकित settlement in the प्रदेश तिथियाँ इससे 1799.
the Sheikhdom of Dubai was formally स्थापित in 1833 by शेख़ maktoum बिन Butti Al-Maktoum जब he persuaded around 800 सदस्यों of उसके जनजाति of the Bani Yas, जीना in what was then the दूसरी सऊदी State और अभी भाग of सऊदी अरब, to follow उसे to the Dubai Creek by the Abu falasa clan of the Bani Yas.
It remained under the जनजाति 's कंट्रोल when the संयुक्त किंगडम assumed protection of the sheikhdom in 1892 और joined the nascent संयुक्त अरब अमीरात upon स्वतंत्रता in 1971 as the देश 's second emirate.
इसके रणनीतिक geographic location made the town an important trading हब and by the शुरूआत of the 20th century, Dubai थी already an important क्षेत्रीय बंदरगाहों.
आज, दुबई रै emerged as a cosmopolitan metropolis that रै grown steadily to become a वैश्विक नगर and a कारोबार और सांस्कृतिक हब of the मध्य ईस्ट और the Persian Gulf प्रदेश.
हालांकि Dubai 's अर्थव्यवस्था थी historically built on the oil industry, the अमीर 's Western-style model of business drives its economy साथ the main revenues now coming इससे पर्यटन, रियल estate, and वित्तीय services.
Dubai रै recently attracted world attention through many innovative विशाल construction प्रोजेक्ट और खेल कार्यक्रम.
The नगर has become सांकेतिक लिये इसके skyscrapers और high-rise इमारतें, such as the world 's tallest burj Khalifa, in जोड to महत्वाकांक्षी development प्रोजेक्ट including man-made islands, होटल, and some of the largest shopping मॉल in the region and the संसार.
इस increased ध्यान has भी highlighted मजदूर और human अधिकारों मुद्दे concerning the city 's largely दक्षिण एशियाई सशुल्क workforce.
Dubai 's property market अनुभवी a major deterioration in 2008–2009 as a result of the विश्वव्यापी economic downturn following the वित्तीय crisis of 2007-2008.
However, Dubai has बना a steady और gradual recovery with सहायता coming इससे neighboring अमीरात.
the handful of नई प्रोजेक्ट that हैं in the pipeline have been समर्थ to सहायता Dubai real estate make a वापसी.
As of 2012, Dubai is the 22nd most expensive नगर in the संसार, और the most expensive city in the मध्य East, surpassing इसराईल 's tel Aviv ( 31st ).
दुबई रै also महरूम rated as one of the best places to live in the मध्य East, सहित by US American global परामर्श firm Mercer जो रेटेड the नगर as the best place to सजीव in the Middle ईस्ट in 2011.
The following is a सूची of colleges and विश्वविद्यालयों in the U.S. state of इलिनोइस.
सतह of the Atlantic ocean बैठक the Earth 's planetary boundary परत and troposphere.
Waves on an ocean coast.
This animation uses Earth science आंकड़ा from a variety of सेंसर on NASA धरती observing satellites to माप शारीरिक oceanography parameters ऐसे as ocean currents, ocean हवाएँ, समुद्र surface height और समुद्र surface temperature.
An समंदर ( ; the World Ocean of classical antiquity ) is a देह of saline जल that composes a विशाल भाग of a planet 's जलमंडल.
In the context of धरती, it refers to एक or all of the प्रमुख divisions of the ग्रह 's World Ocean – वे are, in descending अनुक्रम of area, the प्रशांत, Atlantic, भारतीय, Southern ( Antarctic ), and Arctic महासागर.
the शब्द `` sea `` is often प्रयुक्त interchangeably with `` समंदर '', but सख्ती speaking a समुद्र is a body of saline water ( संभवतः a division of the World Ocean ) partly or fully enclosed by जमीन.
Earth is the तभी planet known to have an ocean ( or any large amounts of open liquid water ).
लगभग 72 % of the planet 's surface ( ~3.6x108 km2 ) is covered by saline जल कि is customarily divided into अनेक principal oceans and smaller समंदर, with the समंदर covering approximately 71 % of the धरती 's surface.
in शर्तें of the जलमंडल of the Earth, the ocean contains 97 % of the धरती 's जल.
oceanographers have stated that आउट of 97 %, only 5 % of the ocean as a पूरे on Earth has been छान.
क्युकी it is the principal घटक of धरती 's hydrosphere, the संसार ocean is अभिन्न to all ज्ञात जीवन, forms भाग of the कार्बन cycle, और प्रभाव जलवायु and weather पैटर्न.
the कुल आवाज़ is approximately 1.3 billion cubic किलोमीटर ( 310 लाख cu mi ) साथ an औसत गहराई of.
it is the habitat of 230,000 known species, although much of the ocean 's गहराइयों remain unexplored और it is अनुमानित that over two लाख marine species मौजूद.
The origin of Earth 's oceans is स्टिल unknown, लकिन महासागर हैं believed to have formed in the Hadean period and may have been the impetus for the emergence of जीवन.
extraterrestrial महासागर may be composed of a wide दायरा of elements और compounds.
The only पुष्टि large stable bodies of extraterrestrial सतह liquids हैं the झीलों of Titan, हालांकि there is evidence for the existence of oceans elsewhere in the Solar प्रणाली.
Early in their geologic histories, मंगल और Venus are theorized to have had large water महासागर.
the मंगल ocean परिकल्पना suggests कि nearly a तीसरा of the surface of मंगल थी एकबार covered by जल, though the water on Mars is no longer oceanic, and a runaway greenhouse प्रभाव may have boiled away the global ocean of Venus.
Compounds such as लवण और ammonia dissolved in water निम्नतर its freezing point, so that water might exist in large quantities in extraterrestrial environments as brine or convecting बर्फ.
Unconfirmed oceans are speculated beneath the सतह of many बौना ग्रह and प्राकृतिक satellites ; notably, the ocean of यूरोपा is believed to have over twice the water आवाज़ of धरती.
the Solar System 's gas giant planets हैं भी believed to possess liquid वायुमंडलीय layers of yet to be पुष्टि रचनाएं.
महासागर may भी मौजूद on exoplanets और exomoons, सहित surface महासागर of द्रव जल भीतर a परितारकीय ठहरने मण्डल.
Ocean planets are a hypothetical प्रकार of ग्रह with a surface completely covered with द्रव.
एल्विस Aaron Presley ( जनवरी 8, 1935 – August 16, 1977 ) was an अमरीकी सिंगर और कर्ता.
A सांस्कृतिक icon, he is commonly ज्ञात by the single name Elvis.
एक of the सबसे popular संगीतकारों of the 20th सदी, he is प्रायः referred to as the `` King of चट्टान और फेंकें '' or `` the King ''.
Born in tupelo, मिसिसिपी, प्रेस्ली स्थानांतरित to Memphis, टेनेसी, साथ उसके family at the age of 13.
He began his career वहीँ in 1954, working साथ सूर्य Records owner Sam Phillips, जो wanted to लाओ the sound of african-american म्यूज़िक to a wider audience.
accompanied by guitarist स्कॉटी मूर and bassist विधेयक ब्लैक, प्रेस्ली was the most important popularizer of rockabilly, an uptempo, backbeat -driven संलयन of country और rhythm और ब्लूज़.
आरसीए विक्टर acquired his contract in a deal arranged by Colonel Tom Parker, who गई on to manage the सिंगर for over two decades.
प्रेस्ली 's पहला RCA सिंगल, `` Heartbreak Hotel ``, released in January 1956, was a number-one hit.
He became the अग्रणी figure of the newly popular sound of चट्टान and roll with a series of संजाल television दिखावे और chart-topping records.
उसके energized interpretations of गीतों, अनेक इससे african-american स्त्रोत, and उसके uninhibited performance style made him enormously popular—and controversial.
In November 1956, he made his film debut in Love me Tender.
Drafted into सैन्य सेवा in 1958, Presley relaunched उसके रिकॉर्डिंग career two सालो later with कुछ of उसके most commercially कामयाब कार्य.
He मंचन few concerts however, and guided by Parker, proceeded to devote much of the 1960s to making हॉलीवुड फिल्मों and साउंडट्रैक एल्बम, सबसे of उन्हें critically derided.
In 1968, बाद seven सालो away इससे the स्टेज, he लौटे to सजीव प्रदर्शन in a celebrated comeback टेलीविज़न special that led to an extended लास Vegas कॉन्सर्ट रेसिडेंसी and a string of लाभप्रद टुर.
in 1973 प्रेस्ली मंचन the पहला concert broadcast globally via उपग्रह, aloha इससे Hawaii.
नुस्खा drug गाली severely deteriorated his स्वास्थ्य, and he died एकाएक in 1977 at the आयु of 42.
Presley is regarded as एक of the most important figures of 20th-century लोकप्रिय संस्कृति.
he had a बहुमुखी आवाज़ and unusually wide success encompassing many जाति, सहित देश, पॉप ballads, gospel, और blues.
he is the best-selling सोलो artist in the history of popular म्यूज़िक.
Nominated for 14 प्रतिस्पर्धी grammys, he won three, and प्राप्त the Grammy आजीवन Achievement Award at age 36.
he रै been inducted into अनेक music हॉल of कीर्ति.
a glass of root beer साथ झाग
रूट बियर is a carbonated, sweetened beverage, originally बना using the root of a sassafras संयंत्र ( or the bark of a sassafras पेड़ ) as the primary स्वाद.
रूट बियर, popularized in North अमेरिका, comes in दो forms : alcoholic और नरम पेय.
The ऐतिहासिक root बियर थी analogous to छोटी beer in कि the process provided a पेय साथ a बहुत कम alcohol content.
Although roots हैं प्रयुक्त as the सोर्स of अनेक soft पेय throughout the world, प्रायः different names हैं प्रयुक्त.
fluorescent खनिज emit visible लाइट when exposed to ultraviolet light
प्रतिदीप्ति is the उत्सर्जन of लाइट by a पदार्थ कि रै अवशोषित लाइट or अन्य electromagnetic विकिरण.
It is a रूप of luminescence.
in सबसे मामले, the emitted लाइट रै a longer wavelength, और therefore निम्नतर energy, than the absorbed radiation.
However, when the अवशोषित इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण is intense, it is संभावित for एक electron to अवशोषित दो photons ; this two-photon absorption can lead to उत्सर्जन of विकिरण having a shorter wavelength than the absorbed विकिरण.
the emitted विकिरण may भी be of the वही wavelength as the absorbed विकिरण, termed `` अनुनाद प्रतिदीप्ति ''.
the सबसे striking उदाहरण of fluorescence occur जब the absorbed विकिरण is in the ultraviolet प्रदेश of the spectrum, and यूँ invisible to the इंसान नजर, and the emitted light is in the दृश्य प्रदेश.
प्रतिदीप्ति has अनेक व्यावहारिक applications, including mineralogy, gemology, रासायनिक सेंसर ( fluorescence स्पेक्ट्रमिकी ), fluorescent labelling, dyes, biological detectors, and, सबसे commonly, fluorescent lamps.
Informal logic, intuitively, refers to the सिद्धान्त of logic और लॉजिकल विचार outside of a formal setting.
However, perhaps because of the informal in the title, the precise definition of अनौपचारिक logic is a पदार्थ of some dispute.
Ralph H. जॉनसन और J. एंथोनी Blair define अनौपचारिक logic as `` a शाखा of logic whose task is to develop non-formal मानकों, criteria, प्रक्रियाओं लिये the विश्लेषण, निर्वचन, मूल्यांकन, criticism और निर्माण of argumentation. ''
This definition reflects कया था been अव्यक्त in their practice and what अन्य were doing in their अनौपचारिक लॉजिक texts.
Informal लॉजिक is associated with ( अनौपचारिक ) fallacies, नाजुक सोच, the Thinking Skills गति and the interdisciplinary पूछताछ known as argumentation सिद्धान्त.
Frans H. van eemeren writes कि the लेबल `` informal logic '' कवर a `` संग्रहण of normative approaches to the पढ़ाई of तर्क in ordinary भाषा that remain closer to the अभ्यास of argumentation than formal logic. ''
यूएसए annual real जीडीपी 1910–60, साथ the years of the ग्रेट अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
Unemployment रेट in the US 1910–1960, साथ the years of the Great अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
the ग्रेट Depression began in अगस्त of 1929, जब the संयुक्त राज्य अर्थव्यवस्था पहला गई into an economic मंदी.
हालांकि the country खर्च two months with घटती जीडीपी, it थी not until the Wall Street Crash of अक्तूबर, 1929 that the effects of a घटती economy यहूद लगा, and a major worldwide आर्थिक downturn ensued.
the market क्रैश चिह्नित the beginning of a दशक of high बेरोजगारी, गरीबी, कम profits, अपस्फीति, plunging farm incomes, और lost opportunities for economic विकास and निजी उन्नति.
हालांकि इसके causes are स्टिल uncertain और विवादास्पद, the जाल प्रभाव थी a sudden and सामान्य loss of विश्वास in the economic future.
The usual explanations include numerous factors, विशेषकर ऊँची उपभोक्ता debt, ill-regulated बाज़ार कि permitted overoptimistic लोन by banks और निवेशकों, and the lack of high-growth नई उद्योग, सब interacting to create a downward आर्थिक spiral of reduced spending, falling विश्वास, and lowered उत्पादन.
Industries कि suffered the सबसे included निर्माण, agriculture as dust-bowl शर्तें persisted in the agricultural heartland, shipping, खनन, और logging as well as durable goods like ऑटोमोबाइल और appliances कि could be postponed.
the economy reached नीचे in the winter of 1932–33 ; then आए चार सालो of बहुत रैपिड विकास until 1937, when the मंदी of 1937 brought वापस 1934 levels of बेरोजगारी.
the Depression caused major राजनैतिक परिवर्तन in America.
Three सालो into the अवसाद, हर्बर्ट Hoover lost the 1932 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव to फ्रैंकलिन delano रूज़वेल्ट in a sweeping landslide.
Roosevelt 's economic रिकवरी योजना, the नई Deal, instituted unprecedented कार्यक्रम लिये राहत, रिकवरी और reform, और brought about a प्रमुख realignment of अमरीकी राजनीती.
The Depression भी resulted in an बढ़ाएँ of emigration of people to अन्य देशों for the first time in अमरीकी history.
लिये example, कुछ immigrants गई back to उनके native countries, and some native US नागरिकों went to कनाडा, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, और दक्षिण Africa.
It also resulted in the द्रव्यमान migration of people इससे badly hit क्षेत्रों in the Great मैदान and the South to स्थान such as California और the उत्तर, respectively ( देखिए Okies और the ग्रेट Migration of अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी ).
Racial tensions also increased during इस time.
by the 1940s immigration था returned back to normal, and करणों अस्वीकृत.
A well-known उदाहरण of an emigrant was फ़्रैंक McCourt, जो went to Ireland, as recounted in his book Angela 's राख.
The memory of the अवसाद also shaped आधुनिक theories of अर्थशास्त्र और resulted in many changes in कैसा the government dealt साथ आर्थिक downturns, ऐसे as the use of stimulus पैकेज, Keynesian अर्थशास्त्र, और सोशल सुरक्षा.
It also shaped आधुनिक अमरीकी literature, resulting in प्रसिद्ध novels ऐसे as जॉन Steinbeck 's `` the अंगूर of प्रकोप `` और `` of चूहे और Men ``.
The ग्रेट Depression of the 1930s प्रारंभ with the भण्डार market क्रैश of अक्तूबर 1929.
Turkey ( ), officially the Republic of Turkey, is a transcontinental country, स्तिथ mostly on Anatolia in Western एशिया और on East thrace in southeastern Europe.
तुर्कों is bordered by आठ देशों : Bulgaria to the उत्तरपश्चिम ; यूनानियों to the वेस्ट ; जॉर्जिया to the पूर्वोत्तर ; Armenia, Iran and the Azerbaijani exclave of Nakhchivan to the ईस्ट ; and इराकी और Syria to the southeast.
the भूमध्यसागरीय Sea is to the दक्षिण ; the Aegean समुद्र is to the west ; और the Black Sea is to the उत्तर.
The Sea of मरमरा, the Bosphorus and the dardanelles ( which together form the तुर्की Straits ) demarcate the boundary between thrace and Anatolia ; they भी separate Europe और एशिया.
तुर्कों 's location at the क्रॉसरोड्स of Europe and एशिया makes it a देश of significant geostrategic importance.
The देश 's official भाषा is Turkish, a turkic भाषा, which is spoken by लगभग 85 % of the population as माँ tongue.
the सबसे numerous जातीय समूह is the turks, who constitute between 70 % and 75 % of the population according to the World Factbook.
Kurds are the largest ethnic minority और, according to the same सोर्स, क्रमांक around 18 % of the population while other जातीय minorities हैं estimated to be at 7–12 %.
the vast majority of the जनसांख्यिकी is मुस्लिम.
the क्षेत्रफल अभी called Turkey रै been inhabited चूंकि the paleolithic, including various Ancient Anatolian civilizations और thracian peoples.
After सिकंदर the Great 's conquest, the क्षेत्रफल was hellenized, जिससे जारी with the रोमन नियम और the परिवर्तन into the बीज़ान्टिन Empire.
The सलजूक़ turks began migrating into the area in the 11th century, starting the process of Turkification, which थी greatly accelerated by the सलजूक़ विजय over the byzantines at the बैटल of Manzikert in 1071.
the Seljuk सल्तनत of rûm ruled आनातोलिया until the mongol invasion in 1243, upon जिससे it disintegrated into अनेक छोटी Turkish beyliks.
Starting from the late 13th century, the उस्मानी beylik united Anatolia और created an empire encompassing much of southeastern Europe, पश्चिमी Asia and उत्तर अफ़्रीकी.
After the उस्मानी साम्राज्य collapsed following इसके defeat in संसार War i, भाग of it were occupied by the विजयी Allies.
a संवर्ग of यंग military officers, led by mustafa kemal अतातुर्क and his सहयोगियों, organized a successful resistance to the Allies ; in 1923 they स्थापित the modern गणतंत्र of Turkey, साथ अतातुर्क as its पहला president.
Turkey is a democratic, secular, unitary, संवैधानिक republic साथ a विविध सांस्कृतिक heritage.
तुर्कों has become increasingly एकीकृत साथ the West through membership in संगठनों such as the परिषद of Europe, नाटो, oecd, osce और the G-20 प्रमुख economies.
तुर्कों began पूरा membership negotiations with the European Union in 2005, having महरूम an associate member of the European आर्थिक Community since 1963 और having joined the EU कस्टम Union in 1995.
तुर्कों has also fostered बंद सांस्कृतिक, राजनैतिक and economic relations साथ the Middle ईस्ट, काकेशस, the turkic राज्य of सेंट्रल Asia and the अफ़्रीकी देशों through सदस्यता in संगठनों such as the turkic परिषद, Joint Administration of Turkic Arts और Culture, Organisation of Islamic सहयोग and the Economic सहयोग संगठन.
तुर्कों 's growing economy और diplomatic पहलों have led to its मान्यता as a क्षेत्रीय power.
Turkey is the world 's 17th largest economy by nominal GDP और the 16th largest by खरीदना शक्ति पैरिटी.
caryn Elaine जॉनसन, best ज्ञात as Whoopi Goldberg (, ( born November 13, 1955 ) is an American comedienne, अभिनेत्री, singer-songwriter, राजनैतिक activist, लेखक और talk दिखाएँ host.
गोल्डबर्ग made her फिल्मी डेब्यू in The रंग जामुनी ( 1985 ), playing celie, a mistreated black स्त्री in the गहन दक्षिण.
वो received a nomination लिये the अकादमी Award for बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री और जीती उसके first Golden Globe पुरस्कार for her role in the फिल्मी.
In 1990, वो played oda mae भूरा, a wacky मानसिक helping a slain man ( Patrick Swayze ) save उसके प्रेमी ( demi मूर ) in the blockbuster भुत.
This प्रदर्शन won her a दूसरी Golden Globe and an Academy पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन supporting अभिनेत्री ; इस made गोल्डबर्ग तभी the दूसरी ब्लैक woman in the history of the Academy Awards to win an एक्टिंग oscar—the पहला being Hattie McDaniel जो जीती for Gone With the Wind in 1939.
Notable बाद films include सिस्टर अधिनियम और Sister Act 2, The Player, Made in America, How स्टेला Got Her नाली वापस, लड़की, बाधित and Rat रेस.
वो is भी acclaimed लिये her भूमिकाएँ as the बारटेंडर guinan in स्टार Trek : the अगला Generation, as Terry doolittle in jumpin ' जोकर Flash, और as Carmen Tibideaux in Glee, as खूब as the आवाज़ of Shenzi the hyena in The Lion किंग.
Goldberg रै महरूम मनोनीत for 13 Emmy Awards लिये उसके कार्य in टेलीविज़न.
She थी co-producer of the लोकप्रिय game दिखाएँ Hollywood वर्गों इससे 1998 to 2004.
She has महरूम the मॉडरेटर of the दिन talk show The View चूंकि 2007.
गोल्डबर्ग रै a Grammy, दो दिन Emmys, two सुनहरी Globes, a टोनी ( लिये production, नहीं एक्टिंग ), और an Oscar.
In addition, गोल्डबर्ग रै a अंग्रेजों अकादमी फिल्मी Award, चार लोगों 's चुनाव पुरस्कार, and रै महरूम honored with a star on the हॉलीवुड चलना of कीर्ति.
वो is एक of the few मनोरंजनकर्ता who have won an एमी, Grammy, ऑस्कर, और टोनी Award.
Augusta is a consolidated नगर in the U.S. राज्य of Georgia, स्तिथ at the fall line of the savannah River, at the सिर of its navigable portion.
as of the 2010 census, the Augusta– रिचमंड काउंटी जनसांख्यिकी was 195,844 not गिनती the unconsolidated शहरों of Hephzibah and blythe.
augusta is the principal city of the augusta – Richmond County Metropolitan Statistical Area, जिससे as of 2010 था an estimated जनसांख्यिकी of 556,877, making it both the second-largest नगर और the second-largest मैट्रो क्षेत्रफल in the state बाद अटलांटा.
It is the 116th-largest नगर in the United राज्य.
Internationally, augusta is best known लिये hosting the Masters Tournament in golf प्रत्येक spring.
A cd-rom ( ) is a pre-pressed कॉम्पैक्ट disc जिससे contains data.
The नाम is an acronym जिससे stands लिये `` कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क read-only memory ``.
कंप्यूटर can read cd-roms, but can नहीं write on them.
cd-roms हैं popularly प्रयुक्त to वितरित कंप्यूटर software, सहित video games and multimedia अनुप्रयोग, हालांकि कोई आंकड़ा can be भंडारित ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ).
Some cds, called enhanced cds, थाम दोनो कंप्यूटर data और ऑडियो साथ the latter capable of being played on a CD खिलाड़ी, जबकि data ( ऐसे as software or digital video ) is तभी usable on a computer ( ऐसे as आईएसओ 9660 स्वरूप pc CD-ROMs ).
The पीला किताब is the तकनीकी standard that defines the स्वरूप of cd-roms.
One of a set of color-bound किताबे कि contain the तकनीकी specifications for all CD formats, the पीला Book, निर्मित by सोनी and फिलिप्स, थी the पहला extension of Compact Disc डिजिटल ऑडियो.
it adapted the format to थाम कोई रूप of data.
the Chicago ब्लैकहॉक्स ( spelled as Black चीलों पहले 1986, and known colloquially as the चीलों ) हैं a पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी टोली आधारित in शिकागो, Illinois.
वे हैं members of the सेंट्रल Division of the Western सम्मेलन of the नेशनल Hockey League ( एनएचएल ).
They have won four Stanley Cup championships since their founding in 1926, सबसे recently in 2009–10.
The Blackhawks हैं एक of the Original Six एनएचएल teams, along with the डेट्रॉयट रेड Wings, मॉन्ट्रियल canadiens, टोरंटो Maple Leafs, Boston Bruins and New यॉर्क रेंजरों.
चूंकि the ब्लैकहॉक्स have played their घर खेल at the United Center बाद having खर्च 65 years playing at शिकागो Stadium.
Lent celebrants carrying आउट a गली बारात दौरान Holy सप्ताह.
The violet color is प्रायः associated with penance and detachment.
समान Christian penitential practice is देखी in other कैथोलिक countries, sometimes संबद्ध with mortification of the flesh.
granada, निकारागुआ.
lent ( Latin : Quadragesima ) is a solemn observance in the liturgical year of many ईसाई denominations, lasting लिये a काल of approximately six सप्ताह leading up to ईस्टर Sunday.
In the सामान्य Latin-rite and most पश्चिमी denominations lent is taken to चलाएं from राख Wednesday to maundy Thursday ( Holy गुरुवार ) morning or to Easter संध्या.
In the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर, lent lasts जबतक पावन गुरुवार, जबकि अन्य denominations run जबतक ईस्टर संध्या.
The traditional purpose of Lent is the preparation of the believer through दुआ, penance, repentance, almsgiving, and self-denial.
इसके institutional purpose is heightened in the सालाना commemoration of पावन सप्ताह, अंकन the death, दफ़न और क़यामत of यीशु, जिससे recalls the events of the Bible जब Jesus is crucified on शुभ Friday, which then culminates in the celebration on ईस्टर Sunday of the क़यामत of यीशु Christ.
दौरान lent, अनेक of the faithful commit to fasting or giving up certain types of luxuries as a रूप of penitence.
the स्टेशन of the Cross, a devotional commemoration of Christ 's carrying the क्रॉस and of his निष्पादन, are प्रायः observed.
अनेक रोमन कैथोलिक and some Protestant चर्च remove flowers from their altars, while crucifixes, religious मूर्तियाँ, and other विस्तृत religious symbols हैं प्रायः रहमत in बैंगनी fabrics in solemn observance of the event.
In certain परहेज़गारों कैथोलिक countries, some adherents mark the ऋतु साथ the परंपरागत abstention from the consumption of meat.
In कुछ countries, ग्रैंड धार्मिक processions and cultural कस्टम हैं observed, और the वफादार attempt to विज़िट सात चर्च दौरान Holy Week in honor of यीशु मसीह heading to माउंट कलवारी.
Lent is traditionally described as स्थायी for forty days, in commemoration of the चालीस days जिससे, according to the gospels of Matthew, Mark and Luke, यीशु spent fasting in the मरुस्थल पहले the शुरूआत of his public मंत्रालय, where he endured temptation by the शैतान.
However, different Christian denominations गणना the forty दिनों of Lent differently.
In सबसे पश्चिमी traditions the Sundays are नहीं counted as भाग of lent ; यूँ the period इससे राख Wednesday until ईस्टर consists of 40 days जब the Sundays are excluded.
however in the रोमन कैथोलिक Church Lent is अभी taken to end on पावन गुरुवार बल्कि than Easter संध्या, and hence lasts 38 दिनों excluding sundays, or 44 दिनों in कुल.
इस event, साथ with its परहेज़गारों customs हैं observed by Catholics, Lutherans, methodists, presbyterians, और anglicans.
Location of Chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र
the abandoned नगर of Pripyat with Chernobyl संयंत्र in the distance
Abandoned आवास ब्लॉक in Pripyat
the chernobyl विपत्ति (, chornobylska katastrofa – chornobyl प्रलय ) was a अनर्थकारी nuclear दुर्घटना कि occurred on 26 April 1986 at the chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant in युक्त ( then officially the Ukrainian SSR ), जिससे थी under the सीधा jurisdiction of the सेंट्रल authorities of the सोवियत Union.
An explosion and fire released large quantities of radioactive particles into the atmosphere, which स्प्रेड over much of the western USSR and यूरोपीय.
The chernobyl disaster is widely माना to have been the worst नाभिकीय power संयंत्र दुर्घटना in history, and is one of तभी two वर्गीकृत as a level 7 इवेंट on the International नाभिकीय इवेंट Scale ( the other होने the Fukushima daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 ).
the बैटल to contain the contamination and avert a greater प्रलय ultimately involved over 500,000 मजदूर और लागत an अनुमानित 18 अरब rubles.
the आधिकारिक सोवियत casualty count of 31 deaths रै महरूम विवादित, और long-term effects such as cancers and deformities are स्टिल being accounted for.
in व्याकरण, a विषय पूरक is a predicative अभिव्यक्ति that follows a linking क्रिया ( copula ) and that complements ( completes ) the subject of the sentence by either ( 1 ) renaming it or ( 2 ) describing it.
In the पूर्व case, a renaming संज्ञा phrase ऐसे as a noun or pronoun is called a predicative nominal.
an adjective following the copula और describing the विषय is पुकारा a predicative adjective.
in either मामला the predicative complement in effect mirrors the विषय.
विषय complements are प्रयुक्त with a छोटी क्लास of verbs पुकारा linking verbs or copula, of जिससे be is the most आम.
चूंकि copula are stative क्रियाएँ, विषय complements हैं नहीं affected by any action of the verb.
Subject complements हैं typically not clause वितर्क, nor हैं वे clause adjuncts.
throughout the fifty-five साल history of the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, अनेक significant रिकॉर्ड have महरूम set.
This पेज only includes the competitive पुरस्कार won by विभिन्न कलाकारों.
This does नहीं include the various special पुरस्कार that हैं प्रस्तुत by the National Academy of Recording Arts और sciences ऐसे as Lifetime उपलब्धि Awards, trustees Awards, तकनीकी Awards or Legend Awards.
The पेज however does include अन्य non-performance सम्बन्धित Grammys ( ज्ञात as the शिल्प & उत्पादन फ़ील्ड ) that may have been प्रस्तुत to the कलाकार ( s ).
मार्शल ब्रूस mathers iii ( born अक्तूबर 17, 1972 ), better ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज name Eminem ( stylized as eminǝm ) and by उसके alter अहंकार पतला छायादार, is an American rapper, रिकार्ड producer, songwriter and कर्ता.
एमिनेम, along with his सोलो करियर, is a सदस्य of his group d12, और also एक हाफ of the hip हॉप duo ख़राब meets Evil, with Royce da 5'9 ''.
Eminem is एक of the best-selling artists in the world और is the best-selling artist of the 2000s.
He रै महरूम सूचीबद्ध and क्रमित as एक of the महानतम कलाकारों of सब time by अनेक मैगज़ीन, सहित रोलिंग स्टोन पत्रिका जिससे क्रमित him 82nd on its list of the 100 Greatest कलाकारों of All Time.
the वही magazine declared him the किंग of Hip Hop.
सहित उसके work with D12 and Bad Meets Evil, Eminem has हासिल टेन number-one एल्बम on the Billboard 200.
he रै sold अधिक than 100 लाख records worldwide, including 42 million ट्रैक्स and 49.1 million एल्बम in the United States.
As an भूमिगत rapper Eminem released his डेब्यू solo album, अनन्त in 1996.
The एल्बम थी a नाजुक and वाणिज्यिक failure.
He gained मुख्यधारा popularity in 1999 after the रिलीज of उसके major-label डेब्यू एल्बम The पतला छायादार LP.
The lp also earned Eminem his पहला Grammy Award for बेहतरीन रैप एल्बम.
उसके next two रिकॉर्ड The Marshall mathers LP, and The Eminem Show, also won बेहतरीन Rap Album Grammy पुरस्कार, making एमिनेम the पहला कलाकार to जीत Best रैप एल्बम for three consecutive LPs.
This थी followed by another स्टुडियो release in 2004 titled Encore.
Eminem तब गई on अंतराल बाद touring in 2005.
He released उसके पहला album in पाँच सालो titled Relapse, on may 15, 2009.
In 2010, Eminem released उसके सातवाँ स्टुडियो album Recovery.
रिकवरी थी an international कामयाबी and थी नामित the बेहतरीन selling album of 2010 worldwide, joining the एमिनेम दिखाएँ, which was the best विक्रेता of 2002.
एमिनेम won ग्रैमी Awards for दोनो Relapse and Recovery, giving him a total of 13 grammys in his career.
Eminem has opened अन्य ventures, सहित his own record लेबल Shady रिकॉर्ड with उसके manager पॉल rosenberg.
he भी रै उसके own रेडियो चैनल, Shade 45 on sirius XM रेडियो.
Eminem began an acting करियर in 2002, जब he स्ट्रक्चर in the hip हॉप drama फिल्मी 8 मील.
he won the अकादमी Award लिये Best Original Song, becoming the पहला rap artist कभी to जीत the award.
He has also made cameo appearances in The Wash ( 2001 ), मजेदार People ( 2009 ) और the television श्रेणी अनुगामी.
The एकड़ is a ईकाई of area used in the इम्पीरियल and U.S. customary प्रणालियों.
an एकड़ is about 40 % of a hectare – थोड़ा smaller than an अमरीकी football field.
the acre is no longer commonly used, हालांकि a few notable अपवाद शामिल the United States, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Burma और the United Kingdom ( as of 2010, the एकड़ is no longer officially प्रयुक्त in the संयुक्त किंगडम, though is still प्रयुक्त in रियल एस्टेट descriptions ).
It is still प्रयुक्त, to some extent, in कनाडा.
the international प्रतीक of the acre is ac, and is पारिभाषित as 1/640 of a square mile.
the सबसे commonly used एकड़ today is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय acre.
In the संयुक्त States दोनो the international एकड़ और the slightly अलग US survey एकड़ are in उपयोग.
The most आम उपयोग of the acre is to माप tracts of land.
एक अंतरराष्ट्रीय acre is defined as 4046.8564224 square metres.
During the मध्य आयु, an एकड़ थी the राशि of जमीन कि could be plowed in एक day साथ a yoke of oxen.
Antoine Lavoisier 's discovery of the Law of Conservation of Mass led to many new निष्कर्षों in the 19th century.
जोसेफ Proust 's law of definite proportions and जॉन Dalton 's परमाणु theory branched इससे the discoveries of Antoine Lavoisier.
लाव्वाज़्ये 's quantitative experiments नाज़िल कि दहन शामिल oxygen बल्कि than what थी previously विचार to be phlogiston.
the विधि of संरक्षण of द्रव्यमान, or principle of द्रव्यमान संरक्षण, राज्य कि लिये कोई system बंद to सब हस्तांतरण of matter and energy ( both of which have द्रव्यमान ), the द्रव्यमान of the system must remain constant over time, as system द्रव्यमान can नहीं बदलें मात्रा if it is नहीं added or removed.
hence, the quantity of द्रव्यमान is `` conserved '' over समय.
The law implies कि द्रव्यमान can neither be created nor नष्ट, although it may be rearranged in space, or the entities संबद्ध साथ it may be बदला in form, as लिये example जब light or शारीरिक कार्य is रूपांतरित into अणु कि contribute the same mass to the system as the लाइट or कार्य had contributed.
The विधि implies ( requires ) that during कोई chemical reaction, nuclear प्रतिक्रिया, or radioactive क्षय in an पृथक प्रणाली, the mass of the reactants or starting सामग्री जरूर बराबर the mass of the products.
The अवधारणा of द्रव्यमान conservation is widely used in अनेक fields such as chemistry, mechanics, और fluid dynamics.
Historically, mass conservation was खोजा in chemical प्रतिक्रियाएँ by एंटोनी लाव्वाज़्ये in the लेट 18th सदी, और was of निर्णायक importance in the प्रगति इससे alchemy to the आधुनिक प्राकृतिक विज्ञान of रसायन.
The closely सम्बन्धित concept of matter conservation was found to hold good in रसायन to such ऊँची approximation that it failed तभी for the high energies treated by the बाद refinements of relativity सिद्धान्त, but वरना remains उपयोगी और sufficiently accurate for सबसे chemical calculations, even in modern अभ्यास.
in special आपेक्षिकता, needed for accuracy when विशाल उर्जा transfers between systems is involved, the difference between thermodynamically बंद और पृथक systems becomes important, चूंकि संरक्षण of द्रव्यमान is सख्ती और perfectly upheld only for so-called isolated systems, i.e. those completely पृथक from सब exchanges साथ the environment.
In इस परिस्थिति, the mass-energy equivalence theorem states कि mass संरक्षण is equivalent to total energy conservation, जिससे is the first law of ऊष्मागतिकी.
by कंट्रास्ट, लिये a thermodynamically closed प्रणाली ( i.e., one जिससे is closed to exchanges of matter, लकिन खोलें to exchanges of non-material energy, ऐसे as ऊष्मा and work, साथ the परिवेश ) mass is ( usually ) तभी approximately conserved.
the input or output of non-material energy must change the mass of the प्रणाली in आपेक्षिकता सिद्धान्त, although the change is प्रायः छोटी, since relatively विशाल amounts of ऐसे उर्जा ( by comparison with ordinary अनुभव ) carry only a छोटी राशि of द्रव्यमान ( again by ordinary standards of मापन ).
In special आपेक्षिकता, द्रव्यमान is नहीं converted to energy, चूंकि energy in all of its forms always retains इसके equivalent amount of द्रव्यमान throughout any transformation or translocation into, or out of, a प्रणाली.
however, निश्चित प्रकार of matter ( a अलग अवधारणा ) may be परिवर्तित to उर्जा, so long as the द्रव्यमान of the system is unchanged in the प्रक्रम.
However, if ऐसे उर्जा is removed from प्रणालियों, they must lose the द्रव्यमान कि is associated with it.
in general relativity, द्रव्यमान ( और उर्जा ) conservation in expanding आयतन of स्पेस is a जटिल अवधारणा, subject to different परिभाषाएं, and neither mass nor energy is as सख्ती and बस conserved as is the मामला in special relativity और in Minkowski स्पेस.
For a discussion, see mass in सामान्य आपेक्षिकता.
a pig is any of the animals in the genus Sus, भीतर the Suidae family of even-toed ungulates.
सूअर include the domestic सुअर, its ancestor the wild boar, और several अन्य जंगली relatives.
Young and small सूअर हैं ज्ञात as piglets.
सूअर हैं omnivores और हैं highly social और intelligent पशु.
8-inch, -inch, and -inch फ्लॉपी डिस्क
8-inch, -inch ( full height ), and -inch ड्राइव
a 3.5-inch diskette 's `` floppy '' magnetic सामग्री, removed इससे इसके आवास
A floppy disk, or diskette, is a डिस्क storage मीडियम composed of a disk of पतला और flexible magnetic storage medium, sealed in a आयताकार plastic carrier lined साथ कपड़ा that removes dust particles.
वे हैं read and लिखा by a फ्लॉपी डिस्क ड्राइव ( FDD ).
फ्लॉपी disks, initially as media and बाद in and 3.5-inch ( 90 mm ) आकार, were a सर्वव्यापी रूप of आंकड़ा भंडार and exchange इससे the mid-1970s well into the पहला decade of the 21st century.
By 2010, computer motherboards were rarely manufactured साथ फ्लॉपी ड्राइव support ; `` floppies could be प्रयुक्त as an external USB ड्राइव, but ``, 8 ``, और non-standard drives could only be संभाला by बूढ़ा उपकरण.
While floppy डिस्क drives still have कुछ limited uses, especially with विरासत औद्योगिक computer उपकरण, they have been superseded by data भंडार methods with much greater capacity, ऐसे as USB फ्लैश drives, पोर्टेबल external मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव, optical discs, memory cards, और computer networks.
An animated diagram of a cutter
in बेसबॉल, a कटर, or cut fastball, is a type of fastball जिससे ब्रेक slightly toward the पिचर 's दस्ताने side as it पहुँच home plate.
इस pitch is somewhere between a स्लाइडर और a fastball, as it is usually thrown faster than a स्लाइडर लकिन साथ अधिक motion than a typical fastball.
कुछ pitchers उपयोग a कटर as a way to prevent hitters इससे expecting their regular fastballs.
a common technique प्रयुक्त to throw a कटर is to use a four-seam fastball grip with the baseball set slightly बंद बीच in the hand.
जब a batter is समर्थ to hit a कटर पिच, it often परिणाम in नरम contact और an आसान out, due to the पिच 's गति keeping the ball away from the bat 's sweet spot.
the cutter is typically 2–5 mph धीमा than a pitcher 's four-seam fastball.
in 2010, the औसत pitch वर्गीकृत as a कटर by pitchf/x thrown by a right-handed pitcher थी 88.6 mph ; the औसत four-seamer थी 92.1 mph.
`` What it Takes '' is a शक्ति ballad by American मुश्किल rock band एरोस्मिथ.
it थी लिखा by Steven टायलर, जो Perry, and डेसमंड Child.
It was released in 1990 as the तीसरा single from Aerosmith 's critically and commercially successful 1989 एल्बम Pump.
in the वीडियो the बनाना of पंप, A & R man John kalodner वर्णित the सोंग as `` a कलाकृति ''.
दौरान सजीव performances, Tyler गाती the पहला श्लोक a cappella और बेल्ट आउट एक of his signature चिल्लाती right पहले the कोरस.
The album version of the song is followed by an बेनाम hidden track.
सिर of Odysseus from a यूनानी 2nd सदी BC marble group representing odysseus blinding Polyphemus, मिला at the villa of Tiberius at sperlonga
Detail of an ancient Roman मोज़ेक of Ulysses in Tunisia
Odysseus ( or ; Greek :, ), also ज्ञात by the रोमन name Ulysses ( ; ), थी a legendary Greek किंग of ithaca और a hero of होमर 's एपिक poem the ओडिसी.
Odysseus also plays a कुंजी role in होमर 's इलियड and other works in that same Epic साईकिल.
husband of पेनेलोप, पिता of telemachus, and son of laërtes ( or sisyphus ) और Anticlea, Odysseus is renowned for उसके brilliance, छल, and versatility ( polytropos ), और is hence known by the epithet odysseus the cunning ( mētis, or `` cunning intelligence `` ).
He is most प्रसिद्ध for the टेन eventful सालो he took to return घर after the decade-long trojan युद्ध and उसके प्रसिद्ध trojan Horse ploy to capture the नगर of ट्रॉय.
erie is a Statutory Town in बोल्डर और Weld काउंटी in the u.S. state of Colorado.
The जनसांख्यिकी according to the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी is 18,135 and was recorded as 6,291 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
The Town of Erie is स्तिथ just वेस्ट of i-25 for easy अभिगम to i-70, डेनवर International Airport और कोलोराडो 's entire सामने दायरा.
erie 's नियोजन Area spans 48 square miles, extending from the उत्तर side of State Highway 52 south to राज्य राजमार्ग 7, and between us 287 on the वेस्ट और Interstate 25 to the ईस्ट.
Erie is लगभग 35 minutes इससे Denver International Airport, 25 minutes to डेनवर and 20 minutes from बोल्डर.
The Board of Trustees serves as the विधान and शासी body of the कस्बा of erie and is responsible for establishing Town नीतियों और goals.
the फलक has the प्राधिकार to adopt laws, ordinances and resolutions as needed to conduct the business of the कस्बा, and by अध्यादेश may enter into contracts or intergovernmental समझौतों to furnish, receive सेवाएं or to provide for cooperative service delivery.
Appointed by and सेवारत at the pleasure of the फलक of Trustees, the Town Administrator is the मुख्य ऑपरेटिंग and administrative officer of the कस्बा and is जिम्मेदार लिये providing पेशेवर leadership in the प्रशासन and execution of नीतियों and उद्देश्य प्रतिपादित by the फलक.
The mission of the erie Police Department is to communicate और work साथ the जातियाँ to maintain a safe पर्यावरण, prevent crime and enforce the विधि, जबकि protecting the अधिकारों of all.
Erie Municipal Airport ( EIK ) is owned and operated by the कस्बा of Erie और is strategically स्तिथ in the denver-boulder महानगर क्षेत्रफल on Colorado Highway 7, a छोटी over three मील west of अंतरराज्यीय 25.
The main runway is concrete paved और 4,700 feet long.
the is a home वीडियो game console उत्पादित by सोनी Computer entertainment.
it is the successor to the PlayStation 2, as part of the PlayStation श्रेणी.
The प्लेस्टेशन 3 competes with Microsoft 's Xbox 360 और Nintendo 's वी as भाग of the seventh पीढी of video game consoles.
It थी पहला released on November 11, 2006, in जापानी, with international markets following shortly thereafter.
the कंसोल थी first officially announced at e3 2005.
Originally नियत for a वसन्त 2006 रिलीज date, it was विलम्बित अनेक टाइम्स until आखिरकार hitting स्टोर्स at the समाप्त of the साल.
it was the first और फिलहाल only console to use Blu-ray डिस्क as इसके प्राथमिक storage मीडियम.
प्रमुख features of the कंसोल शामिल its unified ऑनलाइन गेमिंग सेवा, the प्लेस्टेशन संजाल, and its connectivity with the प्लेस्टेशन पोर्टेबल और PlayStation वीटा, in September 2009 the अद्यतनीकृत PlayStation 3 पतला, थी released.
This पतला is lighter and thinner than the original version, although it lacks प्लेस्टेशन 2 पीछे संगतता ( removed on बाद असली मॉडल ), लकिन notably प्रदर्शित a re-designed लोगो and marketing design.
As of नवम्बर 4, 2012, 70 million PlayStation 3s have been sold worldwide.
इसके successor, PlayStation 4, is set for a q4 2013 release.
Salvador Domingo फेलिप jacinto dalí i Domènech, 1st marqués de dalí de Pubol ( May 11, 1904january 23, 1989 ), ज्ञात as Salvador Dalí ( ), थी a prominent स्पेनी surrealist चित्रकार born in figueres, Spain.
Dalí was a skilled draftsman, best known लिये the striking और विचित्र बिंब in उसके surrealist कार्य.
उसके painterly कौशल are प्रायः attributed to the influence of पुनर्जागरण मास्टर्स.
उसके best-known work, The हठ of मेमोरी, थी completed in 1931.
dalí 's expansive artistic रंगमंडल शामिल film, मूर्तिकला, और photography, in सहयोग with a range of artists in a किस्में of media.
dalí attributed his `` love of सबकुछ that is gilded और excessive, my जुनून लिये लक्ज़री and my love of प्राच्य कपडे '' to a self-styled `` अरब lineage '', claiming that his ancestors were descended इससे the Moors.
dalí थी highly कल्पनाशील, और भी enjoyed indulging in unusual और वैभवशाली बर्ताव.
उसके eccentric manner और attention-grabbing पब्लिक क्रियाएँ sometimes खींचा more ध्यान than his कलाकृति, to the dismay of those who आयोजित उसके work in ऊँची esteem, और to the जलन of उसके आलोचकों.
पारस प्लेटो by Silanion
The मानवता are अकादमिक disciplines that study इंसान संस्कृति, using विधि that are primarily विश्लेषणात्मक, नाजुक, or सट्टे, और having a significant historical element, as distinguished इससे the mainly अनुभवजन्य approaches of the प्राकृतिक sciences.
the humanities include प्राचीन and modern भाषाएं, literature, philosophy, धर्म, और visual और performing कला ऐसे as music and थिएटर.
the मानवता that are also regarded as social sciences शामिल history, anthropology, area अध्ययन, संचार studies, cultural studies, law, अर्थशास्त्र and भाषाविज्ञान.
विद्वानों working in the मानवता हैं sometimes वर्णित as `` humanists ''.
However, that पद also describes the philosophical position of मानवतावाद, जिससे some `` antihumanist `` scholars in the humanities अस्वीकृत.
कुछ secondary schools प्रस्ताव मानवता वर्ग, प्रायः consisting of अंग्रेज़ी साहित्य, global अध्ययन, और art.
Human disciplines like इतिहास, cultural anthropology and psychoanalysis पढ़ाई subject matters to which the प्रायोगिक method does not लागू, and वे have access instead to the तुलनात्मक विधि and comparative शोध.
the 2005 ब्लू Room क्रिसमस पेड़
The White House Christmas पेड़, भी ज्ञात as the Blue रूम Christmas पेड़, is the official indoor Christmas पेड़ at the निवास of the अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य, the White House.
The first indoor क्रिसमस tree थी installed in the White हाउस sometime in the 19th century ( वहीँ हैं varying दावा as to the सटीक year ) और चूंकि 1961 the tree रै had a themed मोटिफ at the discretion of the पहला Lady of the संयुक्त States.
the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States of अमेरिका ( POTUS ) is the सिर of state और head of सरकारी of the United राज्य.
the president leads the executive शाखा of the federal government और is the commander-in-chief of the संयुक्त States Armed शक्तियां.
आलेख II of the u.S. Constitution vests the कार्यपालिका power of the संयुक्त राज्य in the president और charges उसे with the निष्पादन of संघीय law, alongside the responsibility of appointing federal कार्यपालिका, राजनयिक, regulatory, and न्यायिक officers, and concluding treaties साथ विदेशी शक्तियां, साथ the सलाह और सहमति of the Senate.
The अध्यक्ष is further empowered to grant संघीय pardons and reprieves, and to convene and adjourn either or both घरों of कॉंग्रेस under extraordinary circumstances.
Since the founding of the संयुक्त राज्य, the शक्ति of the अध्यक्ष और the federal government have grown substantially और each आधुनिक president, despite possessing no औपचारिक विधान शक्तियां परे signing or vetoing congressionally passed बिल्स, is largely जिम्मेदार for dictating the विधान कार्यसूची of his party and the foreign and घरेलू policy of the संयुक्त States.
the president is अक्सर वर्णित as the सबसे powerful व्यक्ति in the world.
the president is indirectly elected by the people through the Electoral College to a four-year term, और is one of तभी दो nationally elected संघीय अधिकारियों, the other होने the वाइस अध्यक्ष of the United States.
the twenty-second amendment, adopted in 1951, prohibits anyone इससे कभी होने निर्वाचित to the प्रेसिडेंसी for a third full पद.
it भी prohibits a व्यक्ति from being निर्वाचित to the प्रेसिडेंसी अधिक than एकबार if that व्यक्ति previously था परोसा as president, or acting president, for more than two years of another व्यक्ति 's पद as अध्यक्ष.
In सब, 43 individuals have परोसा 55 four-year शर्तें.
on January 20, 2009, Barack ओबामा became the 44th और वर्तमान president.
on November 6, 2012, he थी re-elected और is scheduled to serve until जनवरी 20, 2017.
Senses are physiological capacities of organisms कि provide आंकड़ा for perception.
the होश और उनके आपरेशन, classification, और सिद्धान्त are overlapping topics studied by a किस्में of fields, सबसे notably neuroscience, संज्ञानात्मक psychology ( or cognitive विज्ञान ), and philosophy of बोध.
The nervous प्रणाली रै a विशिष्ट संवेदी प्रणाली or organ, dedicated to each sense.
इंसानो have a multitude of senses.
sight ( ophthalmoception ), सुनना ( audioception ), स्वाद ( gustaoception ), महकते ( olfacoception or olfacception ), और टच ( tactioception ) हैं the पाँच traditionally recognized.
While the क्षमता to detect अन्य stimuli beyond those governed by the परंपरागत senses exists, सहित तापमान ( thermoception ), kinesthetic भाव ( proprioception ), pain ( nociception ), balance ( equilibrioception ), acceleration ( kinesthesioception ), and various internal stimuli ( e.g. the different chemoreceptors लिये detecting नमक and carbon dioxide concentrations in the रक्त ), only a small क्रमांक of ये can सकुशल be वर्गीकृत as पृथक senses in and of themselves.
What constitutes a भाव is a matter of कुछ बहस, leading to difficulties in defining what exactly a भाव is.
Animals also have receptors to भाव the संसार around them, साथ डिग्री of capability varying greatly between प्रजाति.
Humans have a comparatively कमजोर भाव of smell, जबकि कुछ पशु may lack one or अधिक of the परंपरागत पाँच senses.
कुछ पशु may also सेवन और interpret sensory stimuli in बहुत अलग तरीके.
कुछ प्रजाति of पशु हैं समर्थ to sense the संसार in a way that humans can नहीं, with कुछ प्रजाति समर्थ to भाव विद्युत और चुम्बकीय fields, and detect water दबाव and currents.
Spiders ( अनुक्रम Araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods कि have आठ legs और chelicerae साथ fangs कि इंजेक्ट venom.
They हैं the largest order of arachnids and rank seventh in कुल species विविधता among सब other समूह of जीवों.
मकड़ियों हैं मिला विश्वव्यापी on प्रत्येक continent मगर लिये अंटार्कटिक, and have become established in nearly every आवास with the exception of एयर and sea colonization.
As of 2008, at तनिक 43,678 spider species, और 109 परिवारों have been recorded by taxonomists ; however, वहीँ has been confusion भीतर the scientific community as to how सब ये families चाहिए be classified, as evidenced by the over 20 अलग classifications कि have been proposed चूंकि 1900.
Anatomically, spiders differ from other arthropods in that the usual body खण्ड are fused into two tagmata, the cephalothorax और abdomen, और joined by a small, cylindrical pedicel.
नापसंद कीट, spiders do not have antennae.
In सब मगर the most primitive समूह, the Mesothelae, spiders have the most centralized बेचैन systems of सब arthropods, as सब उनके ganglia हैं fused into one mass in the cephalothorax.
Unlike most arthropods, spiders have no extensor muscles in their limbs and बजाय extend them by hydraulic pressure.
Their abdomens भालू appendages that have been परिवर्धित into spinnerets that extrude रेशा from up to छह types of silk ग्रंथियों within उनके abdomen.
मकड़ी webs vary widely in size, आकार और the राशि of sticky लड़ी used.
It अभी appears that the सर्पिल orb web may be एक of the earliest forms, और spiders कि produce tangled cobwebs are more abundant and diverse than orb-web spiders.
Spider-like arachnids साथ silk-producing spigots appeared in the Devonian period about, लकिन ये पशु apparently lacked spinnerets.
True मकड़ियों have been मिला in Carboniferous rocks इससे, and हैं बहुत similar to the सबसे primitive surviving order, the Mesothelae.
the main समूह of आधुनिक spiders, mygalomorphae and Araneomorphae, first appeared in the triassic काल, पहले.
A herbivorous प्रजाति, bagheera kiplingi, was वर्णित in 2008, लकिन all अन्य known species हैं परभक्षी, mostly preying on कीट और on other मकड़ियों, हालांकि a few large species also take birds और lizards.
Spiders use a wide range of strategies to capture prey : trapping it in sticky webs, lassoing it with स्टिकी bolas, mimicking the prey to avoid डिटेक्शन, or कार्यशील it down.
Most detect शिकार मुख्यतः by sensing vibrations, लकिन the क्रियाशील hunters have acute vision, और hunters of the genus Portia दिखाएँ signs of intelligence in their choice of tactics and ability to develop नई ones.
मकड़ियों ' गुस्ताखी are too सीमित to take solids, and वे liquidize उनके food by बाढ़ it with digestive एंजाइमों and पीस it with the bases of their pedipalps, as वे do not have true jaws.
पुरूष मकड़ियों पहचानो themselves by a variety of जटिल प्रेमालाप rituals to avoid होने eaten by the females.
males of सबसे प्रजाति survive a few matings, limited mainly by उनके छोटी life spans.
महिलाओं बुनते रेशा egg-cases, each of जिससे may contain सैंकड़ों of eggs.
Females of अनेक प्रजाति care लिये उनके young, लिये example by carrying them around or by sharing food साथ them.
a minority of प्रजाति हैं social, building सांप्रदायिक webs that may house anywhere from a few to 50,000 individuals.
सोशल बर्ताव ranges from precarious toleration, as in the widow मकड़ियों, to co-operative hunting and food-sharing.
Although most spiders सजीव for at most two years, tarantulas and other mygalomorph मकड़ियों can सजीव up to 25 सालो in captivity.
While the venom of a few प्रजाति is dangerous to humans, वैज्ञानिकों हैं अभी researching the use of spider venom in medicine and as non-polluting pesticides.
Spider silk provides a संयोजन of lightness, strength and लोच that is superior to that of synthetic सामग्री, and spider रेशा genes have महरूम inserted into mammals और पौधे to देखिए if ये can be प्रयुक्त as रेशा कारखानों.
As a परिणाम of उनके wide range of behaviors, spiders have become common symbols in आर्ट और mythology symbolizing विभिन्न combinations of सब्र, क्रूरता और रचनात्मक powers.
धूसर 's anatomy is an American टेलीविज़न medical नाटक कि premiered on the अमरीकी Broadcasting कम्पनी ( ABC ), as a mid-season replacement on March 27, 2005.
the श्रेणी रै aired nine seasons, और focuses on the fictional lives of सर्जिकल interns and निवासियों as they gradually evolve into seasoned doctors, जबकि trying to maintain personal lives.
the दिखाएँ 's premise originated with Shonda Rhimes, जो serves as an कार्यपालिका निर्माता, along साथ Betsy Beers, चिह्नित Gordon, Krista Vernoff, Rob मकई, चिह्नित Wilding, and Allan Heinberg.
the श्रेणी was निर्मित to be racially diverse, utilizing a color-blind casting तकनीक.
it is primarily filmed in लॉस एंजिल्स, California.
The श्रेणी ' protagonist is Dr. मेरेडिथ Grey ( एलेन pompeo ), जो originally is स्वीकृत into the रेसिडेंसी कार्यक्रम at the fictional Seattle अनुग्रह Hospital.
Meredith is आबंटित to work अंतर्गत Dr. मिरांडा Bailey ( चन्द्रा विल्सन ), along with Dr. क्रिस्टीना Yang ( सैंड्रा Oh ), dr. जार्ज o'malley ( T. R. नाईट ), dr. izzie Stevens ( Katherine Heigl ), और Dr. एलेक्स karev ( जस्टिन Chambers ).
Following o'malley 's मौत and स्टीवंस ' प्रस्थान, the हॉस्पिटल 's विलय साथ रहमत वेस्ट brings in Dr. Jackson Avery ( जेसी विलियम्स ) and Dr. अप्रैल kepner ( Sarah Drew ), in the sixth ऋतु.
The सर्जिकल wing is primarily supervised by Dr. Richard webber ( James pickens, Jr. ), who is eventually replaced by Dr. Derek Shepherd ( पैट्रिक Dempsey ), and बाद Dr. Owen Hunt ( Kevin mckidd ).
Dr. Preston Burke ( यशायाह Washington ) departs at the निष्कर्ष of the third season, and is replaced by dr. एरिका hahn ( ब्रुक Smith ), who पत्ते the दिखाएँ दौरान the fifth season, और बाद dr. Teddy Altman ( Kim raver ), जो departs at the समाप्त of the आठवीं ऋतु.
Introduced in the दूसरी season is Dr. Addison मोंटगोमरी ( केट Walsh ), who पत्ते the दिखाएँ at the समाप्त of the third season, in order to launch उसके own spin-off चिकित्सा drama Private अभ्यास.
dr. Callie टोरेस ( Sara Ramirez ) और dr. Mark Sloan ( Eric डेन ) भी डालें the show in the second ऋतु, जबकि the latter dies in the प्रीमियर of the ninth season.
Meredith 's half-sister, Dr. lexie धूसर ( chyler leigh ), appears इससे season तीन और मरता at the समाप्त of season eight.
Dr. एरिज़ोना Robbins ( Jessica capshaw ) is दिए series regular status at the beginning of the छठे ऋतु.
Grey 's Anatomy is the highest-rated नाटक in the key 18–49 demographic.
previously among the overall top-ten rated shows in the संयुक्त राज्य, Grey 's anatomy रै been खूब प्राप्त by आलोचकों.
माना an प्रभाव on culture, the series रै received numerous awards, and रै also महरूम included in various आलोचकों ' top टेन सूचियाँ.
the दिखाएँ has produced अनेक specials, as खूब as distributed all सीज़न to dvd, and released a संग्रहण of merchandise.
In 2012, Grey 's Anatomy थी नामित the fifth-highest आय earning दिखाएँ, in terms of विज्ञापन per half-hour.
on may 11, 2012, the series थी renewed for a नवीं ऋतु, which premiered on September 27, 2012.
Schizophrenia ( or ) is a दिमागी विकार characterized by a breakdown of विचार processes and by a deficit of ठेठ emotional प्रतिक्रियाएँ.
Common लक्षण शामिल auditory hallucinations, paranoid or bizarre delusions, or disorganized speech and thinking, और it is accompanied by significant social or occupational dysfunction.
the onset of लक्षण typically occurs in young adulthood, with a वैश्विक आजीवन prevalence of परिचय 0.3–0.7 %.
Diagnosis is आधारित on observed बर्ताव and the रोगी 's reported experiences.
Genetics, जल्दी environment, neurobiology, और मनोवैज्ञानिक and सोशल processes appear to be important contributory कारकों ; कुछ recreational और prescription drugs appear to cause or worsen लक्षण.
वर्तमान शोध is focused on the role of neurobiology, हालांकि no सिंगल पृथक सशुल्क कारण रै महरूम found.
the अनेक संभावित combinations of symptoms have triggered बहस परिचय whether the निदान represents a single disorder or a क्रमांक of अलहदा syndromes.
despite the etymology of the पद from the यूनानी roots skhizein ( σχίζειν, `` to विभाजित '' ) and phrēn, phren- ( φρήν, φρεν- ; `` दिमाग '' ), schizophrenia करता not imply a `` split personality '', or `` अनेक व्यक्तित्व disorder '' ( which is ज्ञात these दिनों as dissociative पहचान विकार ) —a condition साथ which it is often confused in public बोध.
Rather, the पद means a `` splitting of mental कृत्यों '', because of the symptomatic presentation of the बीमारी.
the mainstay of उपचार is antipsychotic medication, जिससे primarily suppresses dopamine ( और sometimes serotonin ) receptor activity.
मनोचिकित्सा and वोकेशनल and सोशल पुनर्वास are भी महत्वपूर्ण in उपचार.
In more serious cases—where वहीँ is रिस्क to स्वः and others— involuntary hospitalization may be जरुरी, although hospital stays हैं अभी shorter और less बारंबार than they एकबार यहूद.
The disorder is विचार mainly to affect cognition, but it भी प्रायः contributes to chronic problems with बर्ताव and emotion.
People with schizophrenia हैं संभावित to have additional ( comorbid ) conditions, including प्रमुख अवसाद and anxiety विकार ; the आजीवन occurrence of substance उपयोग disorder is लगभग 50 %.
सोशल problems, ऐसे as long-term unemployment, गरीबी, और homelessness are common.
the औसत life expectancy of लोगों साथ the विकार is 12 to 15 years less than those without, the परिणाम of increased शारीरिक स्वास्थ्य problems और a higher suicide रेट ( परिचय 5 % ).
पॉल लेस्ली Snider ( April 15, 1951–August 14, 1980 ) थी the estranged husband and manager of Playboy मॉडल Dorothy Stratten, whom he murdered before हत्या himself the वही day.
the Epic of Gilgamesh, an एपिक कविता इससे मेसोपोटामिया, is amongst the earliest surviving works of literature.
The साहित्यिक history of gilgamesh begins साथ पाँच स्वतंत्र sumerian कविताएं परिचय 'Bilgamesh ' ( Sumerian for Gilgamesh ), king of uruk.
Four of these यहूद प्रयुक्त as source material for a संयुक्त एपिक in Akkadian.
This पहला combined epic, known as the `` Old Babylonian '' version, dates to the 18th सदी bc और is titled after इसके incipit, shūtur एली sharrī ( `` Surpassing सब अन्य Kings '' ).
तभी a few fragments of it have survived.
The बाद `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates इससे the 13th to the 10th centuries BC और bears the incipit Sha naqba īmuru ( `` he जो Saw the Deep '' ).
fragments of लगभग two thirds of इस longer, twelve-tablet version have been बरामद.
Some of the बेहतरीन नक़ल यहूद खोजा in the library तबाह of the 7th-century bc Assyrian किंग ashurbanipal.
the story centers on a friendship between Gilgamesh and Enkidu.
Enkidu is a wild man निर्मित by the देवताओं as gilgamesh 's बराबर to distract उसे from oppressing the people of Uruk.
साथ, वे journey to the देवदार Mountain to defeat Humbaba, इसके monstrous संरक्षक.
Later they मार the सांड of Heaven, जिससे the goddess Ishtar भेजना to punish Gilgamesh लिये spurning उसके अग्रिम.
as a दंड लिये these क्रियाएँ, the gods sentence Enkidu to मौत.
the second half of the epic focuses on Gilgamesh 's distress at Enkidu 's मौत, and his quest for immortality.
In अनुक्रम to learn the secret of अनन्त जीवन, gilgamesh undertakes a long और perilous यात्रा.
He learns कि `` The जीवन कि you हैं seeking तुम होगा never find.
When the देवताओं निर्मित man they आवंटित to him death, लकिन जीवन वे retained in उनके own keeping. ''
इस उद्धरण थी originally attributed to Siduri in the बूढ़ा babylonian version of the एपिक, and then attributed to the immortal flood नायिका utnapishtim in the Akkadian version of the एपिक.
nevertheless, Gilgamesh 's कीर्ति lived on after उसके death, because of उसके ग्रेट भवन प्रोजेक्ट, and his खाता of what Utnapishtim told him happened during the बाढ़.
the स्टोरी रै महरूम translated into अनेक अलग languages, and gilgamesh रै चूंकि become adapted in works of लोकप्रिय fiction.
A eukaryote ( or ) is an organism जिनकी cells contain complex structures enclosed within membranes.
Eukaryotes may more formally be referred to as the taxon eukarya or Eukaryota.
the defining membrane-bound structure that sets eukaryotic कोशिकाएं अलावा इससे prokaryotic cells is the केंद्रक, or nuclear envelope, भीतर which the genetic सामग्री is carried.
the उपस्थिति of a nucleus gives eukaryotes their name, which comes from the यूनानी ( eu, `` good '' ) और ( karyon, `` nut '' or `` kernel '' ).
सबसे eukaryotic कोशिकाएं भी contain अन्य membrane-bound organelles ऐसे as mitochondria, chloroplasts and the Golgi apparatus.
All large complex organisms हैं eukaryotes, सहित animals, plants and fungi.
The group भी शामिल अनेक unicellular organisms.
कोशिका division in eukaryotes is अलग from कि in organisms बगैर a nucleus ( Prokaryote ).
it involves separating the duplicated गुणसूत्रों, through movements directed by microtubules.
वहीँ are two types of प्रभाग processes.
in समसूत्रण, एक कोशिका divides to produce दो genetically identical cells.
In meiosis, which is जरूरी in sexual reproduction, one diploid कोशिका ( having दो instances of each chromosome, एक from प्रत्येक जनक ) undergoes recombination of प्रत्येक pair of parental गुणसूत्रों, और तब दो चरण of cell प्रभाग, resulting in four अगुणित कोशिकाएं ( gametes ).
प्रत्येक gamete has just एक पूरक of chromosomes, प्रत्येक a unique mix of the corresponding जोड़ी of parental chromosomes.
eukaryota appears to be monophyletic, and so makes up one of the तीन डोमेन of life.
The two अन्य domains, Bacteria and आर्किया, हैं prokaryotes and have none of the above features.
eukaryotes represent a छोटा अल्पसंख्यक of सब जीना things ; भी in a human देह there are 10 times more microbes than इंसान cells.
However, due to उनके much larger आकार उनके सामूहिक worldwide बायोमास is अनुमानित at about बराबर to that of prokaryotes.
वे are considered to have first developed approximately 1.6–2.1 अरब years ago.
the उपयोग of अंतरजाल services or software साथ Internet access to defraud पीड़ितों or to otherwise take लाभ of उन्हें, for example by चोरी personal information, जिससे can भी सीसे to identity चोरी.
a बहुत आम रूप of अंतरजाल धोखाधड़ी is the distribution of दुष्ट security तन्त्र.
अंतरजाल services can be प्रयुक्त to present बेईमान solicitations to prospective victims, to conduct बेईमान ट्रांजेक्शन, or to संचारण the proceeds of धोखाधड़ी to financial institutions or to अन्य कनेक्ट साथ the योजना.
Internet धोखाधड़ी can occur in गपशप rooms, email, संदेश फलक, or on वेबसाइटों.
the International Security Assistance फ़ोर्स ( ISAF ) is a नाटो -led security mission in अफगानिस्तान that was स्थापित by the United Nations सुरक्षा Council in December 2001 by रेज़ोल्यूशन 1386, as envisaged by the Bonn Agreement.
Its प्रमुख purpose is to train the Afghan नेशनल Security Forces ( ansf ) and assist अफगानिस्तान in rebuilding कुंजी सरकारी institutions but is also engaged in the 2001-present युद्ध with insurgent समूह.
isaf was initially चार्ज साथ securing काबुल and surrounding areas from the Taliban, al Qaeda and factional warlords, so as to allow for the स्थापना of the Afghan transitional Administration headed by हामिद Karzai.
in अक्तूबर 2003, the un Security Council प्राधिकृत the विस्तार of the ISAF mission throughout Afghanistan, and ISAF subsequently विस्तारित the मिशन in four main stages over the whole of the country.
From 2006 to 2011, ISAF था been शामिल in increasingly अधिक intensive combat operations in दक्षिणी और eastern अफगानिस्तान.
Troop योगदानकर्ता शामिल इससे the संयुक्त राज्य, United Kingdom, NATO सदस्य राज्य और a number of other देशों.
the intensity of the कॉम्बैट faced by contributing nations varies greatly, साथ the संयुक्त States, संयुक्त किंगडम, and Canada sustaining the majority of हताहत in intensive combat परिचालन, साथ other contributors sustaining significantly कम.
As of जल्दी 2010, there were at तनिक 700 सैन्य bases अंदर अफगानिस्तान but more यहूद अपेक्षित to be निर्मित in the coming years.
About 400 of ये यहूद used by American‐led नाटो शक्तियां and 300 by ANSF.
Cocaine ( benzoylmethylecgonine ) ( INN ) is a crystalline tropane एल्कलॉएड कि is प्राप्त from the leaves of the कोका plant.
the name comes इससे `` कोका '' and the alkaloid suffix -ine, forming cocaine.
It is a stimulant, an appetite suppressant, and a topical anesthetic.
biologically, cocaine acts as a serotonin–norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake inhibitor, भी ज्ञात as a triple reuptake inhibitor ( ट्राई ).
it is addictive क्युकी of इसके effect on the mesolimbic बदला pathway.
Unlike most अणुओं, कोका रै pockets with दोनो high hydrophilic और lipophilic efficiency, violating the नियम of hydrophilic-lipophilic संतुलन.
इस causes it to cross the blood–brain अवरोध far बेहतर than other psychoactive रसायन and may even induce blood-brain अवरोध breakdown.
it is illegal to possess, उपज, or distribute cocaine लिये non-medicinal and non-government-sanctioned उद्देश्य in लगभग every देश.
पूरे beef tri-tip rump, roasted medium विरल
The tri-tip is a काटें of beef from the bottom sirloin primal cut.
It is a छोटी triangular मांसपेशी, usually 1.5 to 2.5 पाउंड. ( 675 to 1,150g ) per पक्ष of बीफ.
the scientific नाम of this muscle is प्रदिश fasciae latae, inserted in the fascia lata, the संयोजी tissue covering the quadriceps femoris, भी called quadriceps extensor, a समूह of चार muscles जिससे in फेरे insert in the patella, or घुटना कैप of the एनिमल.
willmar is a city in, और the county सीट of, kandiyohi काउंटी, मिनेसोटा, संयुक्त States.
the population was 19,610 at the 2010 census.
willmar रै महरूम आबंटित zip कोड 56201 by the United States डाक सेवा.
u.s. रूट 12 और 71 और Minnesota राज्य राजमार्गों 23 और 40 are four of the main routes in the city.
the स्पीकर of the संयुक्त States हाउस of प्रतिनिधि ( or Speaker of the हाउस ) is the presiding अधिकारी of the कक्ष.
The office थी established in 1789 by आलेख i, खण्ड 2 of the United राज्य संविधान, जिससे राज्य in part, `` the हाउस of Representatives shall chuse their स्पीकर... ''
The current स्पीकर is जॉन boehner, a रिपब्लिकन जो represents Ohio 's 8th congressional ज़िला.
The Constitution does not आवश्यकता that the Speaker be a सदस्य of Congress, लकिन no non-member has कभी been निर्वाचित to the दफ्तर.
The स्पीकर is दूसरी in the संयुक्त States presidential लकीर of उत्तराधिकार, बाद the वाइस अध्यक्ष and ahead of the President प्रो tempore of the U.S. Senate.
Unlike some Westminster प्रणाली parliaments, in जिससे the office of स्पीकर is considered non-partisan, in the United States the स्पीकर of the हाउस is a leadership स्थिति and the office-holder actively works to set the बहुमत party 's विधान कार्यसूची.
The स्पीकर प्रायः does नहीं personally preside over debates, बजाय delegating the ड्यूटी to members of the House इससे the बहुमत party.
Aside इससे कर्तव्य relating to heading the House और the majority राजनैतिक party, the Speaker भी performs administrative और procedural functions, and represents उसके or her Congressional ज़िला.
A सायकिल फ़्रेम is the main घटक of a bicycle, on to जिससे पहियों and अन्य components are fitted.
The modern और most आम फ़्रेम डिज़ाइन for an upright bicycle is आधारित on the safety bicycle, and consists of two triangles, a प्रमुख त्रिभुज and a paired पश्च triangle.
This is ज्ञात as the डायमंड फ़्रेम.
फ्रेम्स हैं जरूरी to be strong, stiff and light, जिससे वे do by combining अलग सामग्री और shapes.
`` Simple gravity लोलक '' मॉडल assumes no घर्षण or air resistance.
an exemplar एनिमेशन of a लोलक showing the गति and त्वरण vectors
a pendulum is a वज़न निलंबित इससे a so that it can झूले freely.
When a pendulum is displaced sideways इससे इसके resting equilibrium position, it is subject to a restoring force due to gravity कि होगा accelerate it वापस toward the संतुलन position.
When released, the restoring force combined with the लोलक 's द्रव्यमान कल्याणकारी it to oscillate परिचय the equilibrium position, सुहाने back और forth.
The समय for one पूरा साईकिल, a बाएँ swing और a सही झूले, is called the period.
a लोलक swings with a specific period which depends ( mainly ) on its length.
From इसके discovery around 1602 by Galileo Galilei the नियमित motion of pendulums थी used for timekeeping, and was the world 's most सटीक timekeeping प्रौद्योगिकी until the 1930s.
pendulums हैं प्रयुक्त to विनियमित लोलक clocks, और are used in scientific यंत्र ऐसे as accelerometers और seismometers.
Historically they यहूद प्रयुक्त as gravimeters to measure the त्वरण of गम्भीरता in geophysical सर्वेक्षण, और भी as a standard of length.
the word 'pendulum ' is new Latin, from the Latin pendulus, meaning 'hanging '.
The simple gravity लोलक is an idealized mathematical मॉडल of a pendulum.
इस is a weight ( or bob ) on the समाप्त of a massless cord निलंबित from a, without घर्षण.
When दिए an आरंभिक push, it will झूले back and forth at a निरंतर amplitude.
Real pendulums हैं subject to friction और एयर खीचें, so the आयाम of their swings गिरावट.
The First बैटल of Bull चलाएं, भी known as पहला manassas ( the नाम प्रयुक्त by confederate forces ), was लड़ा on July 21, 1861, in Prince William काउंटी, Virginia, निकट the city of Manassas.
it थी the पहला प्रमुख land battle of the American Civil युद्ध.
बस months after the start of the युद्ध at Fort sumter, the उत्तरी पब्लिक clamored लिये a march against the confederate capital of Richmond, वर्जिनिया, जिससे वे अपेक्षित to bring an early end to the rebellion.
yielding to राजनैतिक pressure, ब्रिगेडियर. gen. Irvin mcdowell led उसके unseasoned Union फौज across सांड चलाएं against the equally अनुभवहीन confederate फौज of Brig. Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard camped निकट manassas जंक्शन.
mcdowell 's महत्वाकांक्षी योजना for a surprise पार्श्व attack on the confederate बाएँ was poorly चलाया by his officers and men ; nevertheless, the Confederates, जो था महरूम planning to आक्रमण the संघ left पार्श्व, found themselves at an initial disadvantage.
Confederate reinforcements अंतर्गत Brig. Gen. Joseph E. Johnston arrived from the Shenandoah Valley by रेलरोड and the कोर्स of the बैटल जल्दी बदला.
a ब्रिगेड of Virginians under a relatively अनजान colonel इससे the वर्जिनिया Military Institute, Thomas J. जैक्सन, stood उनके मैदान and Jackson received his प्रसिद्ध nickname, `` Stonewall Jackson ''.
the Confederates तब शुभारम्भ a strong counterattack, और as the संघ troops began withdrawing under आग, अनेक panicked और it turned into a rout as McDowell 's मेन frantically ran without order in the direction of वॉशिंगटन, d.c.
दोनो armies यहूद sobered by the fierce fighting और अनेक हताहत, और realized the war थी going to be much longer and bloodier than either had anticipated.
अंधड़ near garajau, Madeira
मौसम is the राज्य of the atmosphere, to the उपाधि that it is hot or cold, गीला or dry, शांत or stormy, clear or cloudy.
सबसे मौसम phenomena occur in the troposphere, just नीचे the stratosphere.
मौसम generally refers to day-to-day तापमान and precipitation activity, whereas जलवायु is the पद for the average atmospheric शर्तें over longer अवधि of time.
जब used without qualification, `` weather '' is understood to be the मौसम of धरती.
Weather is driven by air pressure ( तापमान और नमी ) differences between one place and another.
These दबाव और temperature मतभेद can occur due to the sun कोण at any particular spot, जिससे varies by latitude इससे the ऊष्णकटिबन्ध.
The strong तापमान contrast between ध्रुवीय और तीव्र air gives वृद्धि to the jet stream.
Weather प्रणालियों in the mid-latitudes, ऐसे as extratropical cyclones, हैं caused by instabilities of the jet स्ट्रीम flow.
क्युकी the Earth 's अक्ष is tilted सापेक्ष to its कक्षीय प्लेन, धूप is incident at different angles at different times of the साल.
On धरती 's सतह, temperatures प्रायः दायरा ±40 °C ( −40 °F to 100 °F ) annually.
over हज़ारों of सालो, changes in धरती 's कक्षा affect the राशि and वितरण of solar energy received by the धरती और influence long-term climate और वैश्विक climate change.
सतह temperature मतभेद in फेरे cause pressure differences.
उच्चतर altitudes are cooler than निम्नतर altitudes due to मतभेद in compressional heating.
मौसम forecasting is the application of science और technology to भविष्यवाणी the राज्य of the atmosphere लिये a भविष्य समय and a given स्थान.
the atmosphere is a chaotic system, so छोटी परिवर्तन to one भाग of the system can grow to have विशाल effects on the प्रणाली as a whole.
इंसान attempts to control the मौसम have occurred throughout human इतिहास, और there is evidence that इंसान कार्यकलाप such as कृषि and उद्योग रै inadvertently परिवर्धित weather patterns.
अध्ययन how the मौसम works on other planets रै been helpful in समझना how weather works on Earth.
A famous landmark in the Solar System, बृहस्पति 's Great Red Spot, is an anticyclonic storm ज्ञात to have existed for at least 300 सालो.
However, weather is नहीं सीमित to planetary लाशें.
A star 's किरीट is constantly being खोया to स्पेस, बनाना कया is essentially a बहुत thin atmosphere throughout the सौर System.
The गति of mass ejected इससे the सूर्य is known as the सौर wind.
Katy पेरी is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter from सांता बारबरा, California.
She हस्ताक्षरित with कैपिटल रिकॉर्ड.
Perry has released three स्टुडियो एल्बम, सहित उसके debut Christian effort कैटी Hudson, One of the लड़कों, और Teenage सपना.
Perry 's मुख्यधारा career थी kicked off with the विशाल चार्ट success of her debut सिंगल `` i चूमा a लड़की ``.
During her career, पेरी has been nominated for numerous प्रमुख music पुरस्कार, primarily लिये teenage Dream and एक of the लड़कों.
the following is a list of sovereign states और territories जहाँ अंग्रेज़ी is an official language or language of सरकारी.
In 2012, वहीँ यहूद 88 states in कुल ( 60 sovereign states and 28 non-sovereign states ).
in अनेक countries English is the प्रबल भाषा, but does नहीं have आधिकारिक औकात.
in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, अंग्रेज़ी is बोला by the vast majority of the जनसांख्यिकी and is the तभी भाषा used in government institutions, but Australia करता नहीं have an official भाषा.
The case is the same in the United Kingdom और the संयुक्त States, हालांकि many states और regions भीतर the u.S. do have अंग्रेज़ी as an आधिकारिक language.
English is the प्रबल भाषा of नई Zealand and an official language of Canada ( साथ साथ French ), India ( साथ with Hindi और अनेक other languages ), आयरलैंड ( साथ with आयरिश ), and the Philippines ( साथ with tagalog ).
अंग्रेज़ी is the sole official भाषा of the Commonwealth of राष्ट्र और the राष्ट्रमंडल खेल.
English is one of the आधिकारिक languages of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र, the यूरोपीय Union and the अंतरराष्ट्रीय ओलम्पिक Committee.
Many of these देशों are current or former colonies or dependencies of the संयुक्त Kingdom ( देखिए भी British साम्राज्य ), or of the संयुक्त States, itself a former उपनिवेश of the uk.
Notable exceptions include Rwanda, जिससे थी a former belgian उपनिवेश and Eritrea, जिससे was an Italian colony where the अंग्रेजों Empire spanned इसके control तभी in World युद्ध ii and shortly after ( 1941-1952 ).
India 's भाषाई picture is complex.
According to the संविधान of इण्डिया, `` Hindi in the Devanagari स्क्रिप्ट '' is the official भाषा of the union ; and English the 'subsidiary official language ' ; however, English is mandated लिये the authoritative ग्रन्थ of सब federal कानून and Supreme अदालत decisions और ( साथ साथ हिंदी ) is एक of the दो languages of the Indian Parliament.
English is used almost exclusively for higher शिक्षा, कारोबार और विज्ञान.
Courses in बहुमत of the स्कूलों हैं taught exclusively in अंग्रेज़ी.
English is extensively प्रयुक्त for administrative purposes in India.
India is the second-largest english-speaking country in the संसार by क्रमांक of speakers, बाद the United राज्य.
As ऐसे, many consider अंग्रेज़ी to be the de facto official language of India.
See Official भाषाएं of इण्डिया.
the linguistic मेकअप of पाकिस्तानी is similarly जटिल.
जबकि the नेशनल भाषा is Urdu, English is an आधिकारिक language और used in business, सरकारी and विधि.
अंग्रेज़ी is a अनिवार्य भाषा in schools.
All स्कूल courses हैं सिखाया in अंग्रेज़ी.
Pakistan is the 9th largest english-speaking देश in the संसार by जनसांख्यिकी.
Southern कोन (, ) is a भौगोलिक region composed of the southernmost क्षेत्रों of दक्षिण America, south of the Tropic of Capricorn.
हालांकि geographically this शामिल Southern और भाग of southeast ( são पाउलो ) of Brazil, in terms of political geography the दक्षिणी कोन रै traditionally comprised अर्जेंटीना, Chile, पैराग्वे, और Uruguay.
In the narrowest sense, it तभी covers Argentina, Chile और उरुग्वे, bounded on the उत्तर by the राज्य of ब्राज़ील, Paraguay, Bolivia and पेरू, on the वेस्ट by the Pacific समंदर, और दक्षिण to the जंक्शन between the प्रशांत and अटलांटिक Oceans, which it is the closest continental क्षेत्रफल of अंटार्कटिक ( 1000 km ).
High life प्रत्याशा, the उच्चतम Human विकास अनुक्रमणिका of Latin अमेरिका, high मानक of living, significant भागीदारी in the वैश्विक markets and the उभरते economy of its सदस्यों make the Southern कोन the most prosperous macro-region in दक्षिण America.
लिये multi-event एथलेटिक प्रतियोगिताओं देखिए Track और फ़ील्ड Competitions, section `` बैठक ''.
बैठक are sometimes held around सम्मेलन tables.
In a बैठक, दो or अधिक लोगों आइये together to discuss one or more topics, often in a औपचारिक सेटिंग.
an आधिकारिक खेल in baseball, also sometimes called a विनियमन game, is a game that has progressed beyond the पाइंट at which it can be माना complete if necessary.
This is approximately the halfway point of the game.
In the मामला of inclement मौसम, any खेल which has पहुँचे this point may be रोका और shortened as needed, साथ the result being फाइनल, और all records और आंकडे गिने.
a खेल जिससे रै नहीं reached इस point पहले होने stopped is either माना a निलंबित game ( to be जारी at a later तिथि इससे the पाइंट of stoppage ), or is simply रद्द and replayed इससे the start.
( This depends on the नियम of each व्यक्तिगत लीग. )
in either मामला, no statistics are गिने जबतक the game becomes official.
चूंकि most पेशेवर baseball games हैं नौ पारी long, the पांचवां inning is used as the दहलीज लिये an official game.
If the visiting टोली is अग्रणी, or the game is tied, the समाप्त of the fifth inning marks this point.
if the home टोली ( which bats पिछला ) is already ahead in the score, and theoretically would नहीं need इसके half of the पांचवां inning, then 41⁄2 पारी ( i.e., the middle of the पांचवां ) is माना an official game.
The खेल is भी considered आधिकारिक if the home टोली स्कोर to take the सीसे in the नीचे of the पांचवां inning, since the खेल would end immediately if the वही thing happened in the ninth.
In nearly all cases, the `` official खेल '' status is प्रयुक्त to determine whether a rain check will be सम्मानित for प्रशंसक पकड़कर tickets.
if a game is started लकिन करता नहीं reach the point of बनने official, प्रशंसक are entitled to a नई टिकट लिये the make-up खेल or ( in सबसे मामले ) कोई अन्य available game of their choice.
If a खेल is halted बाद it becomes official, the game is simply shortened and no बरसात check is given.
the `` official खेल '' statistic प्राप्त some ध्यान दौरान the 1995 season, जब कैलोरी Ripken, Jr. थी approaching the रिकार्ड for consecutive games played, previously held by लू Gehrig.
विशाल संख्याएँ were hung on the पक्ष of the B & O गोदाम at Oriole पार्क at Camden गज to दिखाएँ the क्रमांक of खेल in ripken 's streak.
Each दिन, a नई number थी unfurled during the fifth inning after प्रत्येक game had become आधिकारिक ( since the statistic होता not have गिने if the खेल था महरूम stopped before कि point ).
A समान अभ्यास रै महरूम used to गिनती bas toward the demolition of several stadiums ( सहित दिग्गजों स्टेडियम in Philadelphia in 2003, Busch Memorial Stadium in st. Louis in 2005, और the असली Yankee Stadium और shea Stadium in New यॉर्क City in 2008 ) ; as प्रत्येक game became आधिकारिक, the team would unveil a नई ( निम्नतर ) क्रमांक प्रर्दशित the number of games बाएँ to be played in the स्टेडियम.
A telephone number or phone number is a sequence of digits प्रयुक्त to कॉल इससे एक टेलीफोन line to another in a public switched telephone संजाल.
जब टेलीफोन संख्याएँ were invented, वे were short — as few as एक, two or three अंक — and were दिए orally to a switchboard ऑपरेटर.
as फोन systems have grown और interconnected to encompass the संसार, telephone numbers have become longer.
In जोड to telephones, वे अभी अभिगम other devices, ऐसे as computers and fax मशीने.
The क्रमांक contains the information necessary to पहचानो uniquely the intended endpoint लिये the टेलीफोन कॉल.
प्रत्येक such endpoint जरूर have a unique number within the public switched टेलीफोन संजाल.
सबसे countries use fixed length numbers ( लिये normal lines at तनिक ) और therefore the number of endpoints determines the necessary length of the टेलीफोन क्रमांक.
it is भी possible for प्रत्येक सदस्य to have a नियत of shorter संख्याएँ लिये the endpoints most प्रायः used.
ये `` आशुलिपि '' or `` गति calling '' संख्याएँ हैं automatically अनूदित to unique telephone संख्याएँ पहले the कॉल can be कनेक्ट.
Some खास services have their अपना छोटी संख्याएँ ( e.g., 1-1-9, 9-1-1, 0-0-0, 9-9-9, 1-1-1, और 1-1-2 होने the आपात सेवाएं संख्याएँ for चीन, Japan, South कोरियाई, ताईवान और श्री लंका ; कनाडा and the संयुक्त राज्य ; ऑस्ट्रेलिया ; the संयुक्त किंगडम, Ireland, दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी, Poland, सऊदी Arabia, the संयुक्त अरब Emirates, Morocco, Macao, Bahrain, Qatar, बांग्लादेश, बोत्सवाना, Ghana, Kenya, हांग Kong, Malaysia, Mauritius, Singapore, Zimbabwe, त्रिनिदाद, Tobago ; नई Zealand ; Kuwait and the European Union, क्रमशः. )
अनेक प्रणालियों also allow calls भीतर a लोकल क्षेत्रफल to be बना without dialing the लोकल area कोड.
लिये example, a phone क्रमांक in उत्तर America होगा start साथ तीन संख्याएँ ( ऐसे as 661 ), which is the क्षेत्रफल code, followed by सात अंक विभाजित into sections of three और चार ( ऐसे as 550-1212 ), which is the local number.
Some areas अभी have अनिवार्य ten-digit dialing in place, even for local calls.
Most telephone संजाल today ( अपवाद being निजी intercom और secure phone संजाल ) हैं interconnected in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय telephone network, जहाँ the format of telephone numbers is मानकीकृत by ITU-T in the recommendation E.164.
This specifies that the संपूर्ण number should be 15 अंक or shorter, और शुरू साथ a देश prefix.
For most countries, this is followed by an क्षेत्रफल कोड or नगर कोड और the सदस्य number, जिससे might consist of the कोड लिये a particular टेलीफोन एक्सचेंज.
itu-t recommendation e.123 describes कैसा to represent an international टेलीफोन number in लिखने or छपाई, starting साथ a प्लस चिह्न ( `` + '' ) and the देश कोड.
When कॉलिंग an अंतरराष्ट्रीय number इससे a fixed लकीर phone, the + must be replaced साथ the international call उपसर्ग चुनी by the देश the कॉल is being made from.
Some मोबाईल फोन allow the + to be entered directly.
the format और आवंटन of लोकल फोन संख्याएँ हैं controlled by प्रत्येक स्वदेश 's respective government, either सीधे or by प्रायोजित organizations ( such as NANPA overseen by neustar Inc. ).
पहले a टेलीफोन call is कनेक्ट, the टेलीफोन number must be dialed by the कॉलिंग party or Caller.
the पुकारा party might have उपकरण that presents caller id before the कॉल is answered.
a collection एजेंसी is a कारोबार कि pursues भुगतान of debts owed by individuals or व्यवसायों.
Most संग्रहण agencies operate as agents of creditors और collect debts लिये a शुल्क or प्रतिशत of the कुल राशि owed.
There हैं अनेक types of संग्रहण एजेंसियों.
First-party एजेंसियों are oftentimes subsidiaries of the original company the कर्ज़ is owed to.
third-party एजेंसियों are पृथक companies contracted by a company to collect debts on उनके behalf for a fee.
कर्ज़ buyers purchase the कर्ज़ at a percentage of इसके value, तब attempt to collect it.
प्रत्येक देश रै इसके own rules और regulations regarding them.
Cannabis पुष्प साथ visible trichomes
Cannabis, also known as marijuana ( from the मैक्सिकन स्पेनी marihuana ), and by other names, is a तैयारी of the कैनबिस संयंत्र intended लिये उपयोग as a psychoactive drug and as medicine.
Pharmacologically, the प्रिंसिपल psychoactive constituent of cannabis is tetrahydrocannabinol ( THC ) ; it is one of 483 known यौगिकों in the plant, सहित at least 84 other cannabinoids, such as cannabidiol ( CBD ), cannabinol ( CBN ), tetrahydrocannabivarin ( thcv ).
और cannabigerol ( CBG ).
This is a list of American फ़ुटबॉल quarterbacks जो have प्रारंभ for the वॉशिंगटन redskins, as खूब as इसके पूर्ववर्तियों the बोस्टन Braves ( 1932 ) और बोस्टन Redskins ( 1933 – 1936 ), in the National Football League ( एनएफएल ).
The Washington redskins franchise was originally founded in Boston, मैसाचुसेट्स as the Boston Braves, नामित after the लोकल baseball मताधिकार.
The नाम थी changed the following year to the redskins.
In 1937, the franchise स्थानांतरित to Washington, D.C.
Of the 49 redskins starting quarterbacks, two have महरूम inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame : Sammy baugh and सन्नी Jurgensen.
रॉबर्ट Griffin III 2012-present
जेसन कैम्पबेल 2005-2009
चिह्नित burnell 2004-2007
चिह्नित rypien 1986-1993
Joe theismann 1974-1985
Sammy Baugh 1937-1952
1st Special शक्तियां operational detachment-delta ( 1st sfod-d ), popularly known as Delta फ़ोर्स, is one of the संयुक्त राज्य ' four गुपचुप tier-one counter-terrorism और Special मिशन इकाई.
It was formerly listed as the कॉम्बैट अनुप्रयोग Group by the Department of Defense लकिन रै since महरूम officially re-designated the फौज Compartmented Elements ( ACE ).
जबकि 1st sfod-d is administratively supported by USASOC, it falls अंतर्गत the operational कंट्रोल of the Joint खास परिचालन कमांड.
डेल्टा फ़ोर्स और its नेवी बंटवारा, the नवल खास warfare Development Group, are the संयुक्त States military 's प्राथमिक counter-terrorism units.
Delta फ़ोर्स 's प्राथमिक कार्य हैं counter-terrorism, सीधा कार्रवाई, and नेशनल हस्तक्षेप operations, although it is an extremely बहुमुखी group सक्षम of conducting many types of गुप्त मिशन, सहित, but not सीमित to, hostage rescues और raids.
the Central प्रज्ञा एजेंसी 's अत्यधिक secretive खास क्रियाएँ प्रभाग ( SAD ) और अधिक specifically इसके elite खास परिचालन समूह ( SOG ) often works साथ – and recruits – operators इससे Delta फ़ोर्स.
Alpha क्षय is one उदाहरण type of radioactive decay, in जिससे an परमाणु केंद्रक emits an alpha particle, और thereby transforms ( or 'क्षयs ' ) into an अणु with a mass number 4 less and atomic number 2 less.
Many अन्य types of decays are संभावित.
Radioactive decay, also known as नाभिकीय decay or radioactivity, is the प्रक्रम by which a nucleus of an अस्थिर अणु loses उर्जा by emitting अणु of आयनकारी radiation.
a सामग्री कि अनायास emits this दयालु of विकिरण — जिससे includes the emission of ऊर्जावान अल्फा particles, बीटा अणु, और gamma किरणें — is माना रेडियोसक्रिय.
There are many different प्रकार of रेडियोसक्रिय decay ( see तालिका नीचे ).
A क्षय, or loss of energy, परिणाम जब an atom with one प्रकार of केंद्रक, पुकारा the parent radionuclide, परिणत to an अणु साथ a nucleus in a different राज्य, or to a अलग केंद्रक containing अलग संख्याएँ of protons and neutrons.
either of ये products is named the daughter nuclide.
In कुछ decays the parent and बेटी हैं different रासायनिक तत्व, and thus the decay प्रक्रम परिणाम in nuclear transmutation ( सृष्टि of an atom of a new तत्व ).
the first decay processes to be discovered यहूद अल्फा decay, beta क्षय, and gamma क्षय.
Alpha क्षय occurs जब the nucleus ejects an अल्फा particle ( हीलियम nucleus ).
इस is the सबसे आम process of emitting nucleons, लकिन in rarer types of decays, nuclei can eject protons, or specific nuclei of other elements ( in the प्रक्रम called क्लस्टर decay ).
Beta decay occurs when the केंद्रक emits an electron or positron and a type of neutrino, in a प्रक्रम that changes a proton to a neutron or the other way around.
the nucleus may capture an orbiting electron, converting a proton into a न्यूट्रॉन ( इलेक्ट्रॉन कैप्चर ).
All of ये प्रक्रियाओं परिणाम in नाभिकीय transmutation.
by कंट्रास्ट, there मौजूद रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय processes कि do not result in transmutation.
The उर्जा of an उत्साहित केंद्रक may be emitted as a गामा रे in gamma क्षय, or प्रयुक्त to eject an कक्षीय electron by बातचीत with the उत्साहित nucleus in a प्रक्रम पुकारा internal conversion.
radioisotopes occasionally emit neutrons, and this results in a बदलें in an तत्व इससे one समस्थानिक to another.
One प्रकार of radioactive decay परिणाम in products which हैं नहीं पारिभाषित, but appear in a range of `` pieces '' of the original केंद्रक.
This क्षय is called spontaneous परिवर्द्धन.
This क्षय happens जब a विशाल अस्थिर केंद्रक अनायास splits into दो ( and occasionally तीन ) छोटी बेटी nuclei, और usually emits gamma rays, neutrons, or अन्य अणु as a consequence.
रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय is a stochastic ( i.e., यादृच्छिक ) प्रक्रम at the level of सिंगल अणु, in कि, according to quantum theory, it is नामुमकिन to भविष्यवाणी जब a particular अणु will decay.
However, the मौका कि a given atom होगा क्षय is constant over time.
लिये a large क्रमांक of अणु, the क्षय रेट for the संग्रहण is computable from the measured क्षय constants of the न्यूक्लाइड ( or equivalently from the half-lifes ).
वैक्सिंग is a रूप of semi-permanent बाल हटाना which removes the बाल इससे the रूट.
New बाल will not grow back in the previously waxed क्षेत्रफल लिये two to eight weeks, although some लोगों will प्रारंभ to see regrowth in तभी a सप्ताह.
लगभग any area of the body can be waxed, including eyebrows, face, bikini क्षेत्रफल, टाँगे, arms, वापस, abdomen और फीट.
वहीँ हैं अनेक प्रकार of वैक्सिंग suitable लिये removing unwanted बाल.
Strip waxing is accomplished by spreading a मोम thinly over the skin.
A cloth or पेपर strip is then pressed on the शीर्ष and ripped बंद the direction of बाल विकास.
This removes the मोम along साथ the बाल.
Strip wax can भी be बना at घर using नीबू रस, जल, शुगर and मधु.
hot waxing utilizes hot wax ( as opposed to strip wax ).
in इस case, the wax is applied somewhat thickly and with no cloth or paper स्ट्रिप्स.
The wax तब hardens जब it cools, thus allowing the easy removal by a therapist बगैर the सहायता of cloths.
This वैक्सिंग method is very beneficial to लोगों जो have संवेदनशील skin.
वॉल पेंटिंग ( 1st century ad ) इससे Pompeii depicting a multigenerational banquet
प्राचीन Roman संस्कृति existed throughout the लगभग 1200-year इतिहास of the civilization of प्राचीन Rome.
the term refers to the संस्कृति of the Roman Republic, later the रोमन साम्राज्य, जिससे, at इसके शिखर, covered an क्षेत्रफल from lowland Scotland and Morocco to the euphrates.
जीवन in ancient Rome revolved around the city of Rome, its famed सात पहाड़ियाँ, and इसके monumental structures such as the flavian Amphitheatre ( now पुकारा the कोलोसियम ), the फ़ोरम of त्राजान, and the Pantheon.
the नगर भी had अनेक theaters, gymnasiums, और अनेक taverns, baths, और brothels.
throughout the territory under ancient Rome 's control, residential वास्तुकला ranged from very modest घरों to देश विला, और in the capital city of रोम, वहीँ were imperial निवास on the सुरुचिपूर्ण Palatine हिल, इससे which the word राजमहल is निकला.
the vast बहुमत of the जनसांख्यिकी lived in the नगर center, packed into insulae ( apartment blocks ).
the city of Rome थी the largest megalopolis of कि time, with a population कि may खूब have exceeded one million लोगों, with a ऊँची end अनुमान of 3.6 million and a low end अनुमान of 450,000.
ऐतिहासिक estimates indicate that around 30 percent of the जनसांख्यिकी under the नगर 's jurisdiction lived in innumerable urban centers, साथ जनसांख्यिकी of at तनिक 10,000 and अनेक military settlements, a very ऊँची rate of urbanization by pre-industrial standards.
the most urbanized भाग of the Empire थी Italy, which था an अनुमानित रेट of urbanization of 32 %, the same rate of urbanization of England in 1800.
Most Roman कस्बों और शहरों था a forum, मंदिरों and the same type of इमारतें, on a smaller स्केल, as मिला in Rome.
The विशाल शहरी population जरूरी an endless supply of food जिससे थी a जटिल logistical task, सहित acquiring, transporting, storing and distribution of food for Rome और अन्य urban centers.
Italian खेतो supplied सब्जियां and फल, but मछली and मांस were luxuries.
Aqueducts यहूद निर्मित to bring जल to urban centers and वाइन और oil यहूद आयातित इससे hispania, gaul and Africa.
There थी a बहुत large राशि of commerce between the प्रांतों of the Roman Empire, since इसके परिवहन प्रौद्योगिकी was very कुशल.
The average लागत of transport and the प्रौद्योगिकी यहूद comparable साथ 18th-century Europe.
the बाद city of रोम किया नहीं fill the space within its ancient aurelian walls जबतक after 1870.
Eighty प्रतिशत of the जनसांख्यिकी अंतर्गत the jurisdiction of ancient रोम जिया in the countryside in settlements with less than 10 thousand निवासियों.
जमींदार generally resided in शहरों and their estates were left in the care of फार्म प्रबंधक.
the दुर्दशा of ग्रामीण slaves was generally worse than उनके counterparts working in urban वैभवशाली households.
to stimulate a higher labor उत्पादकता most जमींदार freed a विशाल number of slaves and many प्राप्त wages.
Some रिकॉर्ड indicate that `` as many as 42 people lived in एक small farm हट in मिश्र, while छह families owned a single ज़ैतून tree. ''.
Such a ग्रामीण पर्यावरण जारी to induce माइग्रेशन of population to urban centers जबतक the early 2nd century, जब the शहरी जनसांख्यिकी रोका growing और started to decline.
starting in the middle of the 2nd सदी bc, निजी Greek संस्कृति was increasingly in ascendancy, in spite of tirades against the `` softening '' effects of Hellenized culture from the conservative moralists.
By the समय of Augustus, संस्कारी Greek household slaves taught the Roman यंग ( sometimes even the girls ) ; chefs, decorators, secretaries, doctors, and hairdressers—all आए इससे the Greek ईस्ट.
यूनानी sculptures adorned Hellenistic लैंडस्केप बागवानी on the Palatine or in the विला, or यहूद imitated in Roman मूर्तिकला गज by यूनानी slaves.
the Roman cuisine preserved in the cookery किताबे ascribed to Apicius is essentially यूनानी.
रोमन लेखक disdained Latin for a संस्कारी यूनानी style.
Only in law और शासन थी the तिरछा प्रकृति of रोम 's accretive संस्कृति परम्.
विरूद्ध इस human background, both the शहरी and rural सेटिंग, एक of इतिहास 's सबसे influential सभ्यताओं took आकार, leaving पीछे a सांस्कृतिक legacy कि survives in भाग today.
जेम्स जोसेफ `` डफी '' Waldorf, jr. ( born August 20, 1962 ) is an American पेशेवर golfer.
Glass bottles ( for cucumber slices ) on शिपिंग pallets
A सोवियत मेयोनेज़ jar
a आधुनिक `` French Kilner '' जार
कांच उत्पादन involves दो प्रमुख विधि – the float glass process, जिससे produces sheet glass, and glassblowing which produces bottles और other containers.
a season is a subdivision of the साल, चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in weather, ecology, and घंटों of daylight.
Seasons परिणाम from the वार्षिक revolution of the Earth around the Sun और the tilt of the Earth 's axis सापेक्ष to the प्लेन of revolution.
In temperate and polar regions, the सीज़न हैं चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in the intensity of धूप कि reaches the Earth 's सतह, विसंगतियाँ of which may कारण पशु to go into शीतनिष्क्रियता or to migrate, और plants to be dormant.
During May, जून और July, the उत्तरी hemisphere is exposed to more direct धूप because the गोलार्ध चेहरों the sun.
the same is सच्चा of the southern गोलार्ध in November, December and January.
it is the tilt of the Earth that causes the Sun to be higher in the आसमान during the गर्मियाँ months which increases the सौर flux.
however, due to मौसमी lag, June, July और August are the hottest महीने in the उत्तरी hemisphere और December, जनवरी and February are the hottest महीने in the southern hemisphere.
In temperate और subpolar regions, generally four calendar -आधारd सीज़न ( with their adjectives ) हैं पहचाना : spring ( vernal ), गर्मियाँ ( estival ), पतझड़ ( autumnal ) और शीत ( hibernal ).
However, ecologists mostly उपयोग a छह ऋतु मॉडल for शीतोष्ण climate regions कि includes pre-spring ( prevernal ) और लेट गर्मियाँ ( serotinal ) as पृथक सीज़न along साथ the traditional चार.
hot regions have two or three seasons ; the बरसात ( or गीला, or मानसून ) ऋतु and the शुष्क season, and in some tropical areas, a cool or mild season.
In some भाग of the संसार, special `` seasons '' हैं loosely पारिभाषित based on important कार्यक्रम ऐसे as a hurricane ऋतु, tornado ऋतु or a wildfire season.
the six ecological सीज़न
The चार पंचांग सीज़न, चित्रित in an प्राचीन रोमन मोज़ेक इससे ट्यूनीशिया
the बैटल of फोर्ट sumter ( April 12–14, 1861 ) was the बमबारी and आत्मसमर्पण of फोर्ट sumter, near Charleston, South कैरोलिना, that started the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध.
Following घोषणाओं of secession by seven दक्षिणी states, South Carolina मांगे कि the u.S. Army abandon इसके सुविधाएं in Charleston Harbor.
On December 26, 1860, U.S. Major Robert Anderson surreptitiously moved उसके छोटी कमांड इससे the indefensible Fort Moultrie on Sullivan 's द्वीप to फोर्ट Sumter, a substantial fortress controlling the प्रवेश of चार्ल्सटन हार्बर.
An attempt by u.S. President James बुकानन to reinforce और resupply Anderson, using the निहत्थे व्यापारी जलयान स्टार of the West, विफल when it थी fired upon by shore batteries on जनवरी 9, 1861.
दक्षिण Carolina authorities तब seized सब Federal प्रॉपर्टी in the चार्ल्सटन area, मगर for Fort Sumter.
दौरान the early महीने of 1861, the situation around Fort sumter increasingly began to resemble a घेरा.
in कूच, Brig. Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard, the पहला सामान्य officer of the newly formed confederate राज्य of America, थी लगाई in कमांड of Confederate शक्तियां in चार्ल्सटन.
beauregard energetically निर्देशित the strengthening of batteries around Charleston harbor aimed at Fort sumter.
शर्तें in the फोर्ट grew dire as the संघ सैनिको rushed to पूरा the installation of additional बंदूकों.
एंडरसन थी छोटी of men, खाना, and आपूर्तियाँ.
The resupply of फोर्ट Sumter became the पहला crisis of the administration of President Abraham Lincoln.
he notified the Governor of South कैरोलिना, Francis W. pickens, that he थी sending सप्लाई ships, जिससे resulted in an ultimatum from the confederate government : evacuate Fort Sumter immediately.
प्रमुख एंडरसन refused to surrender.
Beginning at 4:30 a.m. on अप्रैल 12, the confederates bombarded the फोर्ट इससे तोपखाने batteries surrounding the harbor.
Although the संघ गैरीसन लौटे आग, वे were significantly outgunned and, बाद 34 hours, प्रमुख एंडरसन सहमत to evacuate.
वहीँ थी no घाटा of जीवन on either पक्ष as a direct result of this सगाई, हालांकि a gun explosion during the surrender ceremonies on April 14 caused दो Union मौतों.
following the बैटल, there थी फैली support from दोनो उत्तर और South for further सैन्य action.
lincoln 's तात्कालिक कॉल लिये 75,000 स्वयंसेवक to दबाने the विद्रोह resulted in an additional चार दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य also declaring their secession और joining the confederacy.
The Civil War had begun.
3G, short for तीसरा Generation, is the third पीढी of मोबाईल telecommunications technology.
3G telecommunication संजाल support services कि provide an information ट्रांसफ़र रेट of at least 200 kbit/s.
However, many services advertised as 3g provide higher गति than the न्यूनतम तकनीकी आवश्यकताएँ लिये a 3G service.
Recent 3G रिलीज, often denoted 3.5g और 3.75g, also provide mobile ब्रॉडबैंड अभिगम of several mbit/s to स्मार्टफ़ोन and mobile modems in laptop computers.
3g finds अनुप्रयोग in बेतार voice telephony, mobile Internet अभिगम, fixed बेतार अंतरजाल access, video calls and mobile TV.
`` mazel Tov ! '' written on a wine कांच tag
traditionally, after the दूल्हे ब्रेक the glass, the guests चिल्लाओ `` mazel tov ! ``.
A birthday केक, iced with the शब्द `` מזל טוב '' ( mazal tov ), as is often किया in Israel.
Here the phrase is written in Hebrew कर्सिव.
`` mazel tov '' or `` mazal tov '' ( यहूदी / यहूदी : `` מזל טוב '', यहूदी : `` mazal tov '' ; Yiddish : `` mazel tov '' ; lit.
`` good लक '' ) is a phrase प्रयुक्त to express बधाई लिये a प्रसन्न and significant occasion or event.
Hepatitis C is an infectious disease affecting primarily the जिगर, caused by the hepatitis C virus ( hcv ).
The संक्रमण is प्रायः asymptomatic, लकिन chronic संक्रमण can lead to scarring of the जिगर और ultimately to cirrhosis, which is generally apparent after many years.
In some cases, those with cirrhosis होगा go on to develop liver failure, liver कर्कट or life-threatening esophageal and gastric varices.
hcv is स्प्रेड primarily by blood-to-blood contact संबद्ध with intravenous ड्रग उपयोग, poorly sterilized चिकित्सा उपकरण and transfusions.
an अनुमानित 130–200 लाख लोगों worldwide हैं संक्रमित with.
the अस्तित्व of ( originally `` non- A non- B hepatitis '' ) was postulated in the 1970s और proven in 1989.
only infects humans and chimpanzees.
the virus persists in the liver in परिचय 85 % of those संक्रमित.
This persistent infection can be treated with दवा : the standard चिकित्सा is a संयोजन of peginterferon and ribavirin, साथ either boceprevir or telaprevir added in कुछ cases.
Overall, 50–80 % of लोगों treated are cured.
those who develop cirrhosis or liver कर्कट may require a liver प्रत्यारोपण.
is the leading कारण of जिगर प्रत्यारोपण, though the वायरस usually बारंबार after प्रत्यारोपण.
No vaccine against is उपलब्धियाँ.
A flexible spending खाता ( fsa ), also known as a flexible spending arrangement, is एक of a क्रमांक of tax-advantaged वित्तीय accounts that can be set up through a कैफेटेरिया योजना of an employer in the संयुक्त States.
an FSA allows an employee to नियत aside a portion of आय to pay लिये qualified expenses as स्थापित in the कैफेटेरिया योजना, most commonly for चिकित्सा expenses but often लिये dependent परवाह or अन्य खर्च.
धन deducted from an कर्मचारी 's pay into an fsa is not विषय to payroll taxes, resulting in substantial payroll कर savings.
One significant disadvantage to using an fsa is कि निधि नहीं used by the end of the योजना साल are lost to the employee, ज्ञात as the `` उपयोग it or खोना it '' rule.
the most common प्रकार of लचीली spending account, the medical expense FSA ( भी medical FSA or स्वास्थ्य fsa ), is समान to a health बचत account ( hsa ) or a स्वास्थ्य reimbursement account ( HRA ).
however, while HSAs and HRAs are लगभग exclusively used as components of a consumer driven health care योजना, चिकित्सा FSAs are commonly offered साथ अधिक परंपरागत health योजनाएँ as खूब.
in addition, funds in a health savings खाता are not lost when the plan year is over, unlike निधि in an fsa.
Paper फ़ॉर्म or an FSA debit card, also ज्ञात as a Flexcard, may be प्रयुक्त to अभिगम the खाता निधि.
टेनेसी ( ) ( ) is a U.S. state located in the southeastern संयुक्त राज्य.
Tennessee is the 36th most extensive and the 17th सबसे populous of the 50 United राज्य.
टेनेसी is bordered by केंटकी और वर्जिनिया to the north, उत्तर Carolina to the east, जॉर्जिया, Alabama, और Mississippi to the दक्षिण, और अरकंसास and Missouri to the वेस्ट.
the Appalachian kyu dominate the eastern भाग of the राज्य, और the मिसिसिपी नदी फ़ॉर्म the राज्य 's पश्चिमी border.
टेनेसी 's पूंजी and दूसरी largest city is नैशविले, which रै a population of 609,644.
Memphis is the state 's largest नगर, with a जनसांख्यिकी of 652,050.
The state of टेनेसी is rooted in the watauga Association, a 1772 frontier pact generally regarded as the पहला constitutional सरकारी west of the appalachians.
कया is अभी Tennessee थी initially part of North Carolina, and later part of the दक्षिणपश्चिम territory.
टेनेसी was admitted to the संघ as the 16th state on June 1, 1796.
टेनेसी थी the last state to leave the Union और जुड़ें the confederacy at the outbreak of the u.S. सिविल युद्ध in 1861, and the first state to be readmitted to the संघ at the end of the war.
Tennessee furnished अधिक soldiers लिये the confederate Army than any अन्य राज्य, और more soldiers लिये the संघ फौज than कोई other दक्षिणी राज्य.
In the 20th century, टेनेसी transitioned from an कृषिक economy to a more diversified economy, aided at times by federal entities such as the टेनेसी Valley प्राधिकार.
in the early 1940s, the नगर of ओक Ridge थी established to house the Manhattan Project 's यूरेनियम संवर्धन सुविधाएं, helping to build the world 's पहला परमाणु बमबारी.
Tennessee रै निभाई a नाजुक भूमिका in the विकास of many फ़ॉर्म of अमरीकी लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक, सहित rock और roll, blues, country, और rockabilly.
Beale Street in Memphis is considered by many to be the जन्मस्थान of the blues, साथ संगीतकारों such as W.C. Handy performing in इसके क्लब as जल्दी as 1909.
Memphis थी भी घर to Sun Records, where संगीतकारों ऐसे as Elvis प्रेस्ली, Isaac Hayes, जॉनी नकदी, कार्ल Perkins, Jerry ली लुईस, रॉय orbison, and Charlie Rich began their रिकॉर्डिंग करियर, और where rock और roll took आकार in the 1950s.
The 1927 विक्टर recording सत्र in Bristol generally चिह्नित the beginning of the country म्यूज़िक विधा और the वृद्धि of the Grand ओले Opry in the 1930s helped make नैशविले the center of the देश म्यूज़िक रिकॉर्डिंग industry.
तीन ईंटें और गारा संग्रहालय recognize Tennessee 's भूमिका in nurturing various forms of popular music : the मेम्फिस चट्टान n ' आत्मा संग्रहालय, the देश Music हॉल of Fame और Museum in Nashville, and the International Rock-A-Billy संग्रहालय in जैक्सन.
In addition, the Rockabilly हॉल of कीर्ति, an ऑनलाइन site recognizing the विकास of rockabilly in which टेनेसी निभाई a crucial role, is based in Nashville.
Tennessee 's major उद्योग include कृषि, निर्माण, और पर्यटन.
Poultry, soybeans, और cattle are the राज्य 's प्राथमिक agricultural products, और प्रमुख निर्माण निर्यात शामिल chemicals, transportation equipment, and विद्युत उपकरण.
The Great Smoky kyu National पार्क, the स्वदेश 's सबसे visited नेशनल पार्क, is headquartered in the eastern भाग of the राज्य, and a खण्ड of the Appalachian ट्रेल roughly follows the Tennessee-North Carolina किनारा.
Other major tourist attractions include the टेनेसी Aquarium in Chattanooga, the Sunsphere in knoxville, Dollywood in Pigeon Forge, the Parthenon, the Country Music Hall of Fame and संग्रहालय, और ryman Auditorium in Nashville, and Elvis Presley 's graceland निवास और tomb in मेम्फिस.
एक design variant of a मुर्गा रिंग.
A मुर्गा ring is a ring that can be लगाई around a man 's शिश्न, प्रायः at the base, primarily to slow the प्रवाह of रक्त from the वीर्यपात penile tissue, thus maintaining an स्तंभन for a much longer period of time.
मुर्गा rings can be worn around बस the penis or दोनो the शिश्न and scrotum, or बस the scrotum alone, though इस is प्रायः पुकारा a testicle cuff.
बजती can be बना of a किस्में of अलग सामग्री, सबसे commonly चमड़े, rubber, or silicone, though nylon और मेटल are also प्रयुक्त either as the main component or part of the closure.
the term cock ring is sometimes used as a पर्याय लिये a प्रिंस Albert piercing, a piercing of the penis कि is usually, हालांकि not always, a metal ring.
जब प्रयुक्त in cases of erectile dysfunction they are known by various names ऐसे as `` स्तंभन रिंग '' और `` टेंशन रिंग ''.
The मुख्यालय of Major League Baseball at 245 Park Avenue, Midtown मैनहटन, नई York नगर, यूएसए.
प्रमुख League Baseball ( एमएलबी ) is a पेशेवर बेसबॉल लीग, consisting of teams that खेल in the National League and the American League.
Dating to 1876 and 1901 respectively, the दो leagues merged in 2000 into a सिंगल संगठन led by the कमिश्नर of बेसबॉल, after 100 years as separate legal entities.
MLB constitutes one of the प्रमुख पेशेवर खेल leagues of the संयुक्त States and Canada.
it is composed of 30 टीमों — 29 in the United राज्य and one in कनाडा.
टीमों in एमएलबी खेल 162 खेल each ऋतु over छह months ( अप्रैल through September ).
पाँच teams in प्रत्येक league अग्रिम to a four-round postseason tournament that culminates in the World श्रेणी, a best-of-seven-games championship series between the two league champions जिससे तिथियाँ to 1903.
The संगठन oversees many minor-league baseball लीग which operate about 240 teams संबद्ध साथ the major-league क्लब.
साथ the अंतरराष्ट्रीय बेसबॉल संघ, the league also manages the international संसार Baseball Classic tournament.
एमएलबी रै the उच्चतम season उपस्थिति of any sports league in the world साथ nearly 75 लाख spectators in 2012.
Delaware ( ) is a u.S. state स्तिथ on the अटलांटिक coast in the mid-atlantic region of the United States.
It is bordered to the दक्षिण and west by Maryland, to the पूर्वोत्तर by नई Jersey, और to the north by Pennsylvania.
the state takes इसके name from थामस वेस्ट, 3rd Baron De la warr, an अंग्रेज़ी nobleman and Virginia 's first colonial governor, बाद जिसको what is अभी पुकारा केप Henlopen थी originally named.
डेलावेयर is स्तिथ in the northeastern portion of the Delmarva प्रायद्वीप और is the second smallest, the sixth least populous, लकिन the छठे most densely आबादी of the पचास संयुक्त States.
डेलावेयर is विभाजित into three काउंटी.
From north to south, ये three counties हैं New किला, Kent, और ससेक्स.
जबकि the southern two counties have historically been predominantly agricultural, New किला काउंटी has been अधिक industrialized.
Before its तटरेखा थी छान by Europeans in the 16th century, Delaware थी inhabited by अनेक समूह of Native अमेरिकी, सहित the Lenape in the उत्तर and Nanticoke in the दक्षिण.
it was initially colonized by डच व्यापारियों at zwaanendael, located near the present town of Lewes, in 1631.
डेलावेयर was one of the 13 colonies participating in the American Revolution और on December 7, 1787, became the पहला राज्य to ratify the संविधान of the संयुक्त राज्य, thereby बनने known as The पहला State.
Energy परिवर्तन in उर्जा प्रणालियों Language
उर्जा transformation or energy परिवर्तन is the process of changing एक form of उर्जा to another.
in भौतिकी, the पद energy describes the क्षमता to produce निश्चित परिवर्तन within a system, without लिहाज़ to limitations in transformation imposed by Entropy.
परिवर्तन in total energy of systems can only be संपन्नता by adding or subtracting उर्जा इससे उन्हें, as उर्जा is a मात्रा which is conserved, according to the first विधि of thermodynamics.
According to special आपेक्षिकता, changes in the energy of systems will भी coincide साथ परिवर्तन in the system 's mass, and the कुल amount of mass of a system is a माप of its energy.
Energy in a system may be transformed so कि it resides in a different state, or a different प्रकार of energy.
उर्जा in many states may be प्रयुक्त to do many varieties of physical कार्य.
Energy may be used in प्राकृतिक प्रक्रियाओं or मशीने, or else to provide कुछ सेवा to समाज ( such as heat, light, or motion ).
For उदाहरण, an आतंरिक दहन engine converts the संभावित रासायनिक उर्जा in gasoline और oxygen into ऊष्मा, जिससे is then transformed into the propulsive उर्जा ( kinetic energy that moves a vehicle ).
A solar कोशिका converts सौर विकिरण into electrical उर्जा that can then be used to light a bulb or power a computer.
The generic name लिये a device which converts energy इससे एक form to another, is a transducer.
in सामान्य, most types of उर्जा, सहेजें for thermal energy, may be converted efficiently to any other दयालु of उर्जा.
Sometimes this occurs with an efficiency of essentially 100 %, ऐसे as when potential energy is परिवर्तित to kinetic energy as an ऑब्जेक्ट जलप्रपात in vacuum, or जब it orbits nearer or farther from another object, in स्पेस.
Conversion of other प्रकार of energies to heat may also occurs with nearly perfect दक्षता ( अनेक प्रकार of friction do इस ).
अपवाद for perfect conversion efficiency ( भी for पृथक प्रणालियों ) occur जब energy रै already been partly वितरित among many उपलब्धियाँ क्वांटम राज्य for a संग्रहण of particles, which are freely अनुमत to explore कोई राज्य of आवेग और स्थिति ( phase space ).
In such हालातों, a measure पुकारा Entropy, or evening-out of उर्जा distribution in ऐसे states, dictates that भविष्य राज्य of the system जरूर be of at least बराबर evenness in energy distribution.
( There is no way, taking the universe as a पूरे, to collect उर्जा into कम states, एकबार it has स्प्रेड to them ).
A consequence of this requirement is कि there are सीमाएं to the दक्षता साथ which thermal energy can be converted to other kinds of energy, चूंकि थर्मल उर्जा in equilibrium at a given temperature already represents the maximal evening-out of उर्जा between सब संभावित states.
Such energy is sometimes considered `` degraded energy, '' क्युकी it is नहीं entirely usable.
The second विधि of thermodynamics is a way of stating that, for this कारण, थर्मल उर्जा in a प्रणाली may be परिवर्तित to other kinds of उर्जा साथ efficiencies approaching 100 %, only if the entropy ( even-ness or disorder ) of the ब्रह्मांड is increased by अन्य means, to compensate for the decrease in एन्ट्रॉपी संबद्ध with the disappearance of the थर्मल energy और इसके entropy content.
वरना, तभी a part of थर्मल energy may be परिवर्तित to other kinds of उर्जा ( और thus, useful work ), चूंकि the remainder of the heat must be reserved to be transferred to a थर्मल reservoir at a lower temperature, in ऐसे a रास्ता that the बढ़ाएँ in Entropy for this process अधिक than compensates for the एन्ट्रॉपी decrease associated साथ transformation of the rest of the heat into अन्य types of energy.
The नेशनल हॉकी लीग ( एनएचएल ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit association '' which operates a major पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी league of 30 franchised सदस्य क्लब, of which seven हैं फिलहाल located in Canada and 23 in the संयुक्त States.
headquartered in नई York City, the एनएचएल is widely considered to be the प्रीमियर पेशेवर बर्फ hockey league in the world, और one of the major professional खेल leagues in the संयुक्त States and कनाडा.
the Stanley कप, the oldest professional sports trophy in उत्तर अमेरिका, is awarded annually to the लीग playoff चैंपियन at the end of प्रत्येक season.
The league was organized on नवम्बर 26, 1917, in मॉन्ट्रियल, Quebec, कनाडा, बाद the suspension of operations of its predecessor संगठन, the National Hockey Association ( नह ), which had been founded in 1909.
it प्रारंभ with चार teams और, through a श्रेणी of expansions, contractions, और relocations, the league is now रचित of 30 active franchises.
the स्वदेश to which the नाम of the league originally referred थी कनाडा, although the लीग has अभी been binational since 1924 जब it expanded into the United राज्य.
After a labour विवाद कि led to the cancellation of the entire 2004–05 season, the लीग resumed खेल under a new collective bargaining agreement कि शामिल a सैलरी cap.
in 2009, the एनएचएल enjoyed रिकार्ड highs in terms of sponsorships, उपस्थिति, और television audiences.
The एनएचएल draws many अत्यधिक skilled players from all over the world और फिलहाल रै players इससे about 20 different देशों.
Although canadians have historically गठित the majority of the players in the एनएचएल, over the past four प्लस दशकों the percentages of us और European players have increased दोनो because of the NHL 's continued विस्तार from six to तीस क्लब since 1967, और the increased उपलब्धता of अत्यधिक skilled यूरोपीय खिलाड़ी.
This is the complete सूची of the ratified and unratified amendments to the United States संविधान जिससे प्राप्त the approval of the United States Congress.
Twenty-seven amendments have महरूम ratified चूंकि the असली signing of the Constitution, the पहला टेन of which are known collectively as the विधेयक of Rights.
The procedure लिये amending the United States संविधान is governed by आलेख V of the original टेक्स्ट.
वहीँ have महरूम अनेक other proposals for amendments to the United राज्य Constitution introduced in Congress, but not सुपुर्द to the राज्य.
पहले an amendment can take effect, it must be प्रस्तावित to the states by a two-thirds vote of both घरों of Congress or by a सम्मेलन ( ज्ञात as an आलेख v convention ) पुकारा by two-thirds of the राज्य, and ratified by three-fourths of the राज्य or by three-fourths of प्रथाओं thereof, the विधि of अनुसमर्थन being संकल्पित by कॉंग्रेस at the time of proposal.
to date, no सम्मेलन लिये proposing amendments रै महरूम पुकारा by the राज्य, and तभी once—in 1933 for the अनुसमर्थन of the twenty-first amendment —has the convention विधि of ratification महरूम employed.
FMR LLC ( Fidelity Management और Research ) or वफ़ादारी Investments is an अमरीकी multinational financial services निगम.
It is एक of the largest mutual निधि और वित्तीय services groups in the संसार.
It थी founded in 1946 और serves North अमरीकी investors.
वफ़ादारी Ventures is इसके venture capital भुजा.
वफ़ादारी International Limited ( FIL ), was an अंतरराष्ट्रीय affiliate founded in 1969, serving most countries in the बाकी of the संसार.
In सितंबर 2011, FIL was rebranded as 'Fidelity विश्वव्यापी Investment '.
वफ़ादारी Investments manages a विशाल family of mutual funds, provides fund वितरण और निवेश सलाह सेवाएं, as खूब as providing छूट brokerage सेवाएं, retirement सेवाएं, wealth प्रबन्धन, प्रतिभूति execution and clearance, जीवन insurance और a number of other services.
June 2006 was the छठे माह of that year.
It began on a गुरुवार और ended after 30 दिनों on a Friday the following events भी occurred during the मोंटh:
Sociology is the scientific study of human समाज and इसके origins, development, organizations, और संस्थानों.
It is a सोशल science which उपयोग विभिन्न methods of अनुभवजन्य investigation and critical analysis to develop a देह of knowledge परिचय human सोशल activity, structures, and functions.
a goal for many sociologists is to conduct research which may be applied directly to सोशल policy and welfare, while others फ़ोकस primarily on refining the सैद्धांतिक समझना of सोशल processes.
विषय matter सीमाएँ इससे the micro level of individual एजेंसी और interaction to the मैक्रो level of systems and the social ढांचा.
the traditional focuses of समाजशास्त्र include सोशल stratification, social class, संस्कृति, रेस and ethnicity, लिंग और sexuality, social गतिशीलता, धर्म, secularization, विधि, और deviance.
As all spheres of human activity are प्रभावित by the interplay between सोशल structure and individual एजेंसी, sociology has gradually विस्तारित इसके focus to further subjects, ऐसे as स्वास्थ्य, चिकित्सा, military and penal संस्थानों, the अंतरजाल, environmental sociology, राजनैतिक economy and the role of social कार्यकलाप in the विकास of scientific knowledge.
The दायरा of सोशल scientific विधि रै also expanded.
सोशल researchers draw upon a किस्में of गुणात्मक and quantitative techniques.
the भाषाई और सांस्कृतिक turns of the mid-twentieth century led to increasingly interpretative, hermeneutic, और philosophic approaches to the विश्लेषण of society.
Conversely, हाल दशकों have देखी the rise of नई analytically, mathematically and computationally rigorous तकनीकों, ऐसे as agent-based मॉडलिंग and सोशल संजाल विश्लेषण.
समाजशास्त्र should not be उलझन with विभिन्न general social अध्ययन पाठ्यक्रम जिससे bear little relation to समाजशास्त्रीय theory or social science शोध methodology.
Thunder is the ध्वनि caused by lightning.
depending on the प्रकृति of the बिजली और distance of the श्रोता, थंडर can range इससे a sharp, लाउड crack to a long, low rumble ( brontide ).
The sudden बढ़ाएँ in दबाव and temperature from बिजली produces rapid विस्तार of the air surrounding और भीतर a bolt of lightning.
In turn, इस विस्तार of एयर creates a सोनिक shock वेव, similar to a sonic boom, जिससे produces the ध्वनि of thunder, often referred to as a clap, क्रैक, or peal of thunder.
The अलहदा of the lightning can be गणना by the श्रोता based on the समय interval इससे when the बिजली is seen to when the sound is heard.
पालमा (,, ), in पूरा पालमा de Mallorca, is the major city and बंदरगाहों on the द्वीप of majorca ( mallorca ) और पूंजी नगर of the autonomous जातियाँ of the balearic आइलैंड्स in Spain.
The names Ciutat de Mallorca ( नगर of Majorca ) और Ciutat ( नगर ) were प्रयुक्त before the War of the Spanish उत्तराधिकार और हैं स्टिल प्रयुक्त by people in Majorca.
However, the official name थी Mallorca, the वही as the द्वीप.
It is situated on the दक्षिण coast of the द्वीप on the खाड़ी of Palma.
as of the 2009 census, the population of the नगर of Palma proper थी 401,270, और the population of the entire शहरी क्षेत्रफल थी 517,285, ranking as the twelfth largest शहरी area of स्पेन.
लगभग half of the कुल जनसांख्यिकी of Majorca सजीव in Palma.
The Cabrera द्वीपसमूह, though widely separated from पालमा proper, is administratively considered part of the municipality.
Its airport, बेटे सन्त जोन, serves over 22 million passengers प्रत्येक year.
The marivent राजमहल was offered by the city to the then Prince जुआन कार्लोस i of Spain.
the royals have since spent their गर्मियाँ छुट्टियाँ in पालमा.
luthor redirects यहाँ.
For अन्य उपयोग, see लूथर ( disambiguation ).
Alexander Joseph `` लेक्स '' Luthor is a fictional character, a supervillain appearing in कॉमिक books प्रकाशित by DC Comics.
luthor is the archenemy of Superman, और as a high-status supervillain, रै भी come into conflict साथ Batman and other superheroes in the DC Universe.
निर्मित by जेरी siegel and Joe shuster, the character first appeared in Action कॉमिक्स # 23 ( April 1940 ).
luthor is वर्णित as `` a power-mad, evil वैज्ञानिक '' of ऊँची intelligence और incredible technological prowess.
Luthor 's goals typically बीच on हत्या Superman, the foremost बाधा to achieving the विलेन 's megalomaniacal लक्ष्य.
despite periodically wearing a powered बहि, Luthor रै traditionally lacked superpowers or a dual identity.
The character थी originally depicted as a mad वैज्ञानिक जो, in the vein of pulp novels, wreaks कहर on the संसार साथ his अत्याधुनिक weaponry.
in उसके earliest appearances, luthor is shown with a full सिर of रेड hair.
Despite this, the अक्षर later became hairless as the परिणाम of an कलाकार 's mistake.
a 1960 story by Jerry siegel expanded upon luthor 's उत्पत्ति and motivations, revealing उसे to be a बाल्यकाल friend of सुपरमैन 's जो lost उसके बाल when a fire destroyed his प्रयोगशाला ; luthor vowed revenge.
following the 1985 सीमित श्रेणी Crisis on Infinite Earths, the अक्षर थी re-imagined as a machiavellian industrialist और white-collar दण्ड, even briefly serving as अध्यक्ष of the United States.
In recent years, various लेखक have revived Luthor 's mad scientist persona from the 1940s.
the अक्षर was क्रमित as the 8th महानतम विलेन by Wizard on its 100 महानतम Villains of All समय list.
IGN 's list of the शीर्ष 100 Comic Book खलनायक of All Time क्रमित luthor as # 4.
Luthor is also described as a `` megavillain '' by comic किताब critic पीटर sanderson, एक of a few genre-crossing खलनायक whose adventures लो place `` in a world in which the ordinary laws of प्रकृति हैं थोड़ा suspended '' ; वर्ण ऐसे as प्राध्यापक Moriarty, Count Dracula, Hannibal Lecter, डॉक्टर यातना, and darth Vader, भी अनुरूप this description.
मार्टिन Luther King, Jr. Day is a संयुक्त राज्य federal अवकाश अंकन the birthday of रेव. Dr. Martin Luther किंग, Jr.
it is observed on the third Monday of January each year, which is around the समय of King 's birthday, जनवरी 15.
the फ्लोटिंग holiday is समान to छुट्टियाँ set under the वर्दी Monday Holiday अधिनियम, though the अधिनियम predated the स्थापना of मार्टिन Luther King, jr. Day by 15 years.
किंग was the chief spokesman for nonviolent सक्रियता in the civil अधिकारों गति, जिससे सफलतापूर्वक protested racial पक्षपात in संघीय और state विधि.
The campaign for a संघीय holiday in किंग 's honor began जल्द बाद उसके assassination in 1968.
Ronald reagan हस्ताक्षरित the holiday into law in 1983, और it थी first observed on जनवरी 20, 1986.
at first, some राज्य resisted observing the holiday as such, giving it alternative names or combining it with other छुट्टियाँ.
it was officially observed in सब 50 states for the पहला समय in 2000.
the camera phone समाधान allows instant sharing of pictures.
As it 's स्वचालित और instant, the उपयोक्ता does not have to उपयोग a केबल or removable मीडिया to कनेक्ट to a निजी computer.
A camera फोन is a mobile phone which is able to कैप्चर still छायाचित्र ( और usually video ).
चूंकि early in the 21st सदी the बहुमत of mobile phones in use हैं camera फोन.
Most कैमरा phones हैं simpler than पृथक डिजिटल कैमरे.
Their usual fixed focus lenses and smaller सेंसर सीमा उनके प्रदर्शन in poor lighting.
Lacking a physical शटर, most have a long शटर lag.
फ्लैश, where उपस्थित, is प्रायः weak.
ऑप्टिकल जूम और तिपाई screws are विरल.
कुछ भी कमी a usb कनेक्शन, removable memory card, or अन्य way of transferring उनके तस्वीरें more quickly than by the phone 's अंतर्निहित communication feature.
Some of the more expensive कैमरा phones have तभी a few of these तकनीकी disadvantages, which apply सबसे acutely in low लाइट शर्तें and in कोई case have not inhibited उनके फैली use.
Most model लाइनों improve in these प्रणाम प्रत्येक year or two.
कुछ, such as the droid अविश्वसनीय only have a मेनू चुनाव to प्रारंभ an application कार्यक्रम to activate the कैमरा.
अन्य, ऐसे as the BlackBerry Storm 2, Droid X, Motorola v980 and Nokia 5800 भी have a separate कैमरा बटन for quickness और convenience.
Windows फोन can be configured to operate as a कैमरा even if the फोन is asleep.
कुछ कैमरा फोन are designed to resemble separate low-end डिजिटल कॉम्पैक्ट cameras in रूप और to some extent in सुविधाएँ and चित्र विशेषता, और are ब्रांडेड as दोनो मोबाईल फोन and cameras, सहित certain Sony फोन.
The प्रिंसिपल लाभ of कैमरा फोन are cost and compactness ; बेशक for a उपयोक्ता who carries a mobile फोन वैसे, the additional size और लागत हैं negligible.
Smartphones कि are camera फोन may run mobile applications to add सामर्थ्य ऐसे as geotagging और चित्र stitching.
a few high end phones can उपयोग their touch स्क्रीन to direct their कैमरा to focus on a particular object in the field of दृश्य, giving even an inexperienced उपयोक्ता a degree of फ़ोकस कंट्रोल exceeded तभी by seasoned photographers using manual focus.
`` Whatever Happened to the man of कल ? '' is a 1986 कॉमिक किताब स्टोरी featuring the DC Comics character of Superman.
लिखा by एलन मूर साथ सहायता from long-time, and जल्द to be retiring, सुपरमैन editor, जूलियस Schwartz, the story was प्रकाशित in two parts, beginning in सुपरमैन # 423 और समाप्ति in कार्रवाई Comics # 583, दोनो प्रकाशित in September 1986.
the story was drawn by long-time कलाकार रूखा swan, in his फाइनल major योगदान to the Superman शीर्षक, and was inked by जार्ज Pérez in the समस्या of सुपरमैन और Kurt schaffenberger in the issue of Action Comics.
The स्टोरी थी an imaginary टेल जिससे बताई the final स्टोरी of the Silver Age Superman और his long इतिहास, which थी होने rebooted following the कार्यक्रम of Crisis on अनन्त Earths, पहले his आधुनिक परिचय in the John Byrne श्रेणी, the man of Steel.
मूर चाही his plot to सम्मान the long इतिहास of the character and to serve as a complete निष्कर्ष to his mythology.
the story is a फ़्रेम story set ten सालो बाद सुपरमैन was पिछला देखी, जहाँ लोइस Lane recounts the tale of the समाप्त of सुपरमैन 's career to a reporter इससे the Daily Planet.
उसके story includes numerous हिंसक हमले विरूद्ध सुपरमैन by उसके दुश्मनों, the पब्लिक revelation of उसके रहस्य पहचान of क्लार्क Kent and a क्रमांक of मौतों of those closest to उसे.
the story has been cited as एक of the बेहतरीन stories of the अक्षर of सुपरमैन, and critics और audiences frequently choose it as एक of the सबसे यादगार comics ever प्रकाशित.
it is used as an उदाहरण of how to close the long-time continuity of a comic किताब character.
the स्टोरी 's legacy has endured with समान कहानियां written as श्रद्धांजलि to it.
the title is a सन्दर्भ to one of the nicknames of सुपरमैन as the Man of Tomorrow, और was प्रयुक्त in the शीर्षक of another Superman.
the bugatti veyron eb 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car, designed and developed by the volkswagen समूह and manufactured in molsheim, फ़्रांस by bugatti ऑटोमोबाइल S.A.S.
The Super खेल version of the Veyron is the तीव्रतम street-legal उत्पादन car in the संसार, साथ a top speed of.
the असली version रै a top गति of.
It was named car of the Decade ( 2000–2009 ) by the बीबीसी टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम शीर्ष Gear.
the standard veyron won Top Gears बेहतरीन Car Driven सब साल award in 2005.
on 6 अप्रैल 2013, bugatti नियत the रिकार्ड for the fastest roadster in the world with the veyron ग्रैंड Sport vitesse, reaching on औसत a शीर्ष गति of.
The veyron 's मुख्य designer थी Hartmut Warkuss, and the exterior was designed by Jozef kabaň of Volkswagen, with much of the engineering कार्य होने conducted under the guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber.
a number of खास variants have been produced.
in December 2010, bugatti began offering prospective buyers the क्षमता to मनपसंद exterior and interiors रंग by using the Veyron 16.4 configurator application on the marque 's official जालस्थल.
the institution of the eucharist रै महरूम a key theme in the depictions of the Last भोजन in ईसाई आर्ट, as in इस 16th-century जुआन de Juanes पेंटिंग.
`` at the Last Supper, on the night he was betrayed, हमारी रक्षक instituted the eucharistic sacrifice of उसके Body and Blood. ''
( Catechism of the कैथोलिक Church 1323 )
Eucharist in the कैथोलिक Church refers to both the celebration of the Mass, कि is, the Eucharist liturgy, और the ब्रैड and वाइन जिससे after the consecration are transubstantiated ( changed in substance ) into the body और रक्त of Jesus Christ, Lord and God, a declaration प्रतिपादित by the परिषद of ट्रेंट with an anathema विरूद्ध anyone जो denied इस.
Blessed sacrament is a devotional पद used in the Roman कैथोलिक Church to refer to the eucharistic प्रजाति ( the देह and रक्त of Christ ).
the following is a list of कॉलेजों and विश्वविद्यालयों in the U.S. राज्य of Louisiana.
a short स्टोरी is a brief work of साहित्य, usually लिखा in narrative गद्य.
उभरते इससे earlier oral storytelling परंपराओं in the 17th century, the short स्टोरी has grown to encompass a body of work so विविध as to defy easy characterization.
at its most prototypical the short स्टोरी सुविधाएँ a छोटी डाल of नामित वर्ण, और focuses on a self-contained घटना with the intent of evoking a `` single effect '' or mood.
in so doing, छोटी कहानियां make उपयोग of प्लाट, resonance, और अन्य dynamic components to a दूर वृहद उपाधि than is typical of an anecdote, yet to a far lesser degree than a novel.
While the छोटी स्टोरी is largely पृथक इससे the novel, authors of दोनो generally draw इससे a आम पूल of literary techniques.
छोटी कहानियां have no set length.
in terms of word गिनती there is no official demarcation between an किस्सा, a short स्टोरी, और a अनोखा.
बल्कि, the रूप 's पैरामीटर्स are दिए by the rhetorical and व्यावहारिक कॉन्टेक्स्ट in which a दिए story is उत्पादित and माना, so that what constitutes a छोटी स्टोरी may differ between जाति, देशों, eras, and commentators.
Like the novel, the छोटी story 's predominant shape reflects the मांगे of the उपलब्धियाँ बाज़ार लिये प्रकाशन, और the एवोल्यूशन of the रूप seems closely tied to the evolution of the publishing उद्योग और the submission guidelines of इसके constituent houses.
the short स्टोरी रै been माना both an शिक्षुता form preceding अधिक lengthy works, और a crafted form in इसके अपना right, collected together in books of similar length, price, और वितरण as novels.
Short स्टोरी writers may define their works as part of the कलाकारी और personal अभिव्यक्ति of the form.
वे may भी attempt to resist categorization by genre and fixed form.
क्षेत्रफल कोड in Michigan
Area कोड 810 is the telephone क्षेत्रफल कोड सेवारत पूर्वी मिशिगन.
The raccoon (, procyon lotor ), sometimes spelled racoon, also ज्ञात as the आम raccoon, North अमरीकी raccoon, उत्तरी raccoon and colloquially as coon, is a medium-sized mammal देशी to उत्तर अमेरिका.
The raccoon is the largest of the procyonid family, having a देह length of and a देह वज़न of.
इसके grayish coat mostly consists of घना underfur जिससे insulates विरूद्ध ठंडा मौसम.
Two of the raccoon 's most distinctive features हैं its अत्यधिक dexterous front पंजे और इसके facial मुखौटा, जिससे हैं विषयवस्तु in the mythology of several देशी American tribes.
Raccoons are विख्यात for उनके intelligence, with अध्ययन प्रर्दशित कि वे are able to remember the solution to tasks for up to three years.
The diet of the omnivorous raccoon, जिससे is usually nocturnal, consists of about 40 % invertebrates, 33 % संयंत्र भोजन, और 27 % vertebrates.
the असली habitats of the raccoon are पतझड़ी and मिश्रित forests, लकिन due to their adaptability वे have extended their range to mountainous क्षेत्रों, coastal marshes, and urban areas, जहाँ some homeowners consider उन्हें to be pests.
as a result of escapes और deliberate introductions in the mid-20th सदी, raccoons हैं अभी भी वितरित across the यूरोपीय मेनलैंड, the काकेशस प्रदेश and जापानी.
Though previously विचार to be solitary, there is अभी प्रमाण कि raccoons engage in gender-specific सोशल behavior.
सम्बन्धित females often share a आम area, जबकि unrelated males live साथ in समूह of up to four animals to maintain उनके स्थितियाँ विरूद्ध foreign males दौरान the mating season, and other potential आक्रमणकारियों.
घर range sizes vary anywhere इससे 3 हेक्टेयर ( 7 acres ) for females in शहरों to 50 km2 ( 20 sq mi ) लिये males in prairies.
After a gestation period of परिचय 65 दिनों, दो to five young, ज्ञात as `` kits '', are born in spring.
The kits are subsequently raised by their माँ जबतक dispersion in late पतन.
Although captive raccoons have महरूम known to सजीव over 20 सालो, उनके average जीवन प्रत्याशा in the wild is only 1.8 to 3.1 सालो.
in अनेक areas, शिकार and vehicular injury are the दो सबसे आम causes of death.
the 2010 हैती भूकंप थी a अनर्थकारी magnitude 7.0 Mw earthquake, साथ an उपरिकेंद्र निकट the town of léogâne ( Ouest विभाग ), लगभग west of port-au-prince, हैती 's capital.
the भूकंप occurred at 16:53 local समय ( 21:53 UTC ) on मंगलवार, 12 जनवरी 2010.
By 24 January, at least 52 aftershocks measuring 4.5 or greater था been recorded.
an अनुमानित तीन लाख लोगों were affected by the quake.
The उच्चतम reliable मौत गिनती was अनुमानित at 220,000.
haitian government estimates were उच्चतर.
The government of हैती अनुमानित that 250,000 residences and 30,000 commercial buildings had collapsed or यहूद severely क्षतिग्रस्त.
the earthquake caused प्रमुख damage in Port-au-Prince, jacmel और अन्य settlements in the प्रदेश.
Many notable landmark buildings यहूद significantly damaged or destroyed, including the अध्यक्षीय राजमहल, the National Assembly भवन, the port-au-prince Cathedral, and the प्रमुख jail.
among those मारे यहूद archbishop of Port-au-Prince जोसेफ Serge Miot, and विपक्ष leader Micha gaillard.
The मुख्यालय of the United Nations Stabilization मिशन in हैती ( MINUSTAH ), located in the पूंजी, collapsed, killing many, including the मिशन 's Chief, Hédi annabi.
अनेक देशों responded to appeals लिये humanitarian aid, pledging funds और dispatching rescue और medical टीमों, engineers और support personnel.
संचार systems, एयर, जमीन, और sea हस्तांतरण facilities, hospitals, and electrical संजाल था been क्षतिग्रस्त by the भूकंप, जिससे hampered rescue और सहायता प्रयत्न ; confusion over जो थी in charge, एयर traffic congestion, और समस्याएं with prioritisation of फ़्लाइट further complicated early राहत work.
Port-au-Prince 's morgues were overwhelmed with tens of हज़ारों of लाशें.
ये had to be buried in द्रव्यमान graves.
As rescues tailed बंद, आपूर्तियाँ, medical care and sanitation became प्राथमिकताएं.
देरी in aid वितरण led to एंग्री appeals from सहायता workers and survivors, and looting and sporadic हिंसा were observed.
on 22 जनवरी the United राष्ट्र noted कि the आपात phase of the राहत operation थी आरेखण to a close, and on the following day the Haitian government officially called बंद the search लिये survivors.
Mister ed is a fictional talking घोड़ा, originally appearing in short stories by वाल्टर R. ब्रूक्स, and later in an American टेलीविज़न situation comedy produced by Filmways that पहला aired in syndication इससे January 5 to जुलाई 2, 1961, and then on सीबीएस इससे October 1, 1961 to फ़रवरी 6, 1966.
the stars of the दिखाएँ were Mister ed, a palomino horse जो could `` talk '', played by gelding Bamboo Harvester and voiced by पूर्व Western स्टार allan Lane ( जो went uncredited लिये the entire लंबाई of the series ), and his owner, an eccentric and enormously klutzy, yet दोस्ताना, वास्तु नामित wilbur पोस्ट ( Alan Young ).
Much of the program 's humor stemmed इससे the fact मिस्टर ed होता बोलो तभी to Wilbur, as well as Ed 's notoriety as a troublemaker.
Other कार्यशील चुटकुले centered on Wilbur 's character होने a huge klutz and inadvertently causing harm to himself or अन्य.
According to the दिखाएँ 's producer, आर्थर Lubin, Young was chosen as the lead character because he `` just लगा like the sort of guy a घोड़ा would बात to ''.
Lubin, a dost of Mae West, scored a coup by persuading the screen प्रतीक to guest star in one episode.
In the संयुक्त राज्य, reruns aired on उपनाम at नाइट from कूच 3, 1986, to फ़रवरी 1, 1993.
Sister स्टेशन tv जमीन भी reran the दिखाएँ from 1996–98 और again from 2003-06.
The श्रेणी is currently broadcast प्रत्येक morning on इस TV, along साथ राजमार्ग पैट्रोल, और the Patty ड्यूक Show.
It is also currently broadcast on hallmark Movie Channel.
As of January 1, 2011, the first दो seasons of the दिखाएँ हैं available on Hulu.
The Rapture is a term in Christian eschatology which refers to the `` होने caught up '' discussed in 1 Thessalonians 4:17, when the `` मुर्दे in मसीह '' and `` we who हैं alive and remain '' होगा be `` caught up in the बादल '' to मिलें `` the Lord in the एयर ''.
The term `` Rapture '' is प्रयुक्त in at तनिक two होश.
in the pre-tribulation view, a समूह of लोगों होगा be left पीछे on धरती after another समूह वस्तुतः पत्ते `` to मिलें the Lord in the air. ''
इस is अभी the most आम उपयोग of the पद, especially among fundamentalist ईसाइयों and in the United राज्य.
The other, पुरानी उपयोग of the पद `` rapture '' is बस as a पर्याय लिये the final resurrection generally, बगैर a belief that a group of लोगों is बाएँ पीछे on earth लिये an विस्तारित tribulation काल बाद the events of 1 thessalonians 4:17.
This भेद is important as some types of christianity never refer to `` the rapture '' in धार्मिक शिक्षा, but might use the older और more सामान्य sense of the शब्द `` rapture '' in referring to what happens during the फाइनल क़यामत.
There are many views among Christians regarding the timing of मसीह 's वापसी ( including whether it will occur in one event or दो ), और various दृश्य regarding the destination of the aerial महफ़िल described in 1 thessalonians 4.
Denominations ऐसे as रोमन catholics, Orthodox ईसाइयों, Lutheran Christians, और Reformed ईसाइयों believe in a rapture तभी in the sense of a सामान्य फाइनल क़यामत, when Christ returns a सिंगल समय.
वे do नहीं believe that a समूह of लोगों is बाएँ behind on धरती लिये an विस्तारित tribulation period after the कार्यक्रम of 1 thessalonians 4:17.
pre-tribulation rapture theology was विकसित in the 1830s by जॉन नेल्सन darby और the plymouth Brethren, और popularized in the संयुक्त राज्य in the जल्दी 20th सदी by the चौड़ी परिसंचरण of the Scofield सन्दर्भ बाइबल.
Kris Nathan Humphries ( born फ़रवरी 6, 1985 ) is an American professional basketball player साथ the Brooklyn नेट.
the philistine cities of गाजा, Ashdod, ashkelon, Ekron, और gath
the philistines (,,, or ;, Plištim ), pleshet or peleset, were a people who as भाग of the समुद्र Peoples appeared in the दक्षिणी तटीय क्षेत्रफल of canaan at the शुरूआत of the Iron आयु ( circa 1175 BC ), सबसे संभवतः इससे the ईजियन प्रदेश.
according to the बाइबल, वे शासित the पाँच city-states ( the `` Philistine pentapolis '' ) of गाजा, ashkelon, ashdod, ekron and gath, from Wadi गाजा in the south to the yarqon नदी in the north, लकिन साथ no फिक्स्ड border to the ईस्ट.
the Bible paints them as the किंगडम of इसराईल 's most dangerous enemy.
Originating somewhere in the ईजियन, उनके जनसांख्यिकी थी around 25,000 in the 12th century bc, rising to a peak of 30,000 in the 11th सदी bc, of which the ईजियन element was नहीं more than हाफ the कुल, and perhaps much कम.
Nothing is ज्ञात for निश्चित about the असली भाषा or languages of the Philistines, however they यहूद not भाग of the Semitic canaanite population.
There is some सीमित प्रमाण in favour of the assumption that the Philistines were indo-european-speakers either इससे Greece and/or Luwian अध्यक्षों इससे the coast of Asia नाबालिग.
philistine-related words मिला in the बाइबल हैं नहीं Semitic, और can in some मामले, with reservations, be traced वापस to Proto-Indo-European जड़ें.
by the शुरूआत of the 1st Millennium BCE वे had adopted the सामान्य Canaanite भाषा of the region.
the Armed Services वोकेशनल योग्यता बैटरी ( asvab ) is a multiple चुनाव परीक्षण, administered by the संयुक्त राज्य सैन्य Entrance प्रसंस्करण Command, used to determine qualification for enlistment in the United राज्य armed शक्तियां.
It is often offered to American high school विद्यार्थी जब they हैं in the 10th, 11th and 12th ग्रेड, though anyone योग्य for enlistment may लो it.
Although the परीक्षण is administered by the military, it is not ( and never रै been ) a आवश्यकता that a test-taker साथ a qualifying score enlist in the हथियारबंद शक्तियां.
in financial accounting, a balance चादर or बयान of वित्तीय position is a सारांश of the financial balances of a sole बंदोबस्त, a business partnership, a निगम or other कारोबार संगठन, such as an LLC or an llp.
एसेट, liabilities and ownership इक्विटी हैं listed as of a specific तिथि, such as the समाप्त of its financial साल.
A balance sheet is often described as a `` स्नैपशॉट of a कम्पनी 's वित्तीय condition ''.
of the चार basic financial कथन, the संतुलन चादर is the only statement which applies to a single point in समय of a business ' पंचांग year.
A standard company संतुलन sheet has three भाग : assets, liabilities and स्वामित्व इक्विटी.
The प्रमुख categories of assets हैं usually सूचीबद्ध first, और typically in order of चलनिधि.
एसेट हैं followed by the देनदारी.
the difference between the assets और the देनदारी is ज्ञात as equity or the जाल एसेट or the जाल worth or पूंजी of the company and according to the accounting समीकरण, जाल worth जरूर बराबर assets ऋण देनदारी.
another रास्ता to dekh at the same equation is that assets equals liabilities plus owner 's equity.
looking at the equation in इस way shows कैसा assets were financed : either by उधार धन ( liability ) or by using the मालिक 's money ( owner 's equity ).
Balance चादरें are usually presented साथ assets in one section and liabilities और net लायक in the other section साथ the दो भाग `` balancing. ''
a business ऑपरेटिंग entirely in नकदी can measure इसके profits by withdrawing the entire बैंको balance at the समाप्त of the काल, plus कोई cash in हाथ.
however, many businesses are not सशुल्क तत्काल ; they build up inventories of goods and they acquire buildings and equipment.
In अन्य शब्द : businesses have एसेट और so they can नहीं, even if they want to, तत्काल turn these into नकदी at the end of प्रत्येक period.
Often, these businesses owe धन to suppliers and to tax अधिकारियों, और the proprietors do not withdraw all उनके original capital and profits at the समाप्त of प्रत्येक काल.
in अन्य words व्यवसायों also have liabilities.
.17 hornady Magnum rimfire, commonly ज्ञात as the.17 hmr, is a rimfire राइफल cartridge developed by the ammunition कम्पनी hornady in 2002.
It descended इससे the.22 मैग्नम by necking down the.22 मैग्नम मामला to लो a.17 कैलिबर ( 4.5 mm ) गोली, and it is अधिक costly to shoot than traditional.22 कैलिबर rimfire cartridges.
Commonly loaded साथ a 17 grain ( 1.1 g ) bullet, it can deliver muzzle गतियाँ in excess of 2550 ft/s ( 775 m/s ).
The schaumburg Flyers यहूद a पेशेवर baseball team based in Schaumburg, Illinois, in the United राज्य.
the Flyers यहूद to be a charter member of the उत्तर अमरीकी League, जिससे is नहीं affiliated with प्रमुख League Baseball, however, the टोली folded in कूच 2011, before they began खेल in the nal.
From the 1999 season to the 2010 ऋतु, the Flyers played उनके घर खेल at Alexian फ़ील्ड, निकट the एल्गिन o'hare Expressway.
the team formerly निभाई in थंडर खाड़ी, Ontario, जहाँ they यहूद ज्ञात as the थंडर Bay whiskey jacks.
the team थी originally a member of the Northern League from 1993 to 2010.
on July 27, 2009, the Flyers played host to बैटल of the Sexes ii, which pitted the Flyers against the National प्रो fastpitch सॉफ्टबॉल Champions, the शिकागो डाकुओं.
निभाई by आधिकारिक softball नियम, the खेल थी seen by an overflow रिकार्ड भीड of 8,918, and थी won by the डाकुओं 4-2.
in 1999, the Flyers नियुक्त their first manager, रॉन Kittle.
kittle is बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उसके playing days साथ the Chicago White sox, and पूर्व Chicago शावक and White Sox खिलाड़ी Greg hibbard थी the pitching कोच.
दौरान the जल्दी सालो of the franchise, Kittle did a श्रेणी of tv commercials to promote the team, using the gimmick `` Ma kittle. '' where he played दोनो himself और उसके `` Ma. ''
the ads were कामयाब at sparking some initial ब्याज in the team as the flyers hoped to steal away प्रशंसक इससे the आसपास केन County Cougars.
The ad mimicked the अत्यधिक कामयाब Converse विज्ञापन जहाँ लैरी जॉनसन स्ट्रक्चर as both himself और `` gramama. ''
At the end of the 2001 season, however, Kittle resigned इससे his managerial position, and Jim boynewicz थी hired to replace him.
in 2004, the Flyers बना it to the Northern लीग Championship Series विरूद्ध the st. Paul Saints.
despite अग्रणी the five-game श्रेणी 2-1, schaumburg आखिरकार खोया the series.
In खेल 5, flyers relief पिचर lyle Prempas allowed a खेल winning ग्रैंड स्लैम by st. पॉल infielder मार्क mirizzi in the नवीं inning.
The flyers appeared in the उत्तरी लीग playoffs four times ( 1999, 2003, 2004, 2006 ) लकिन never won the चैंपियनशिप.
कुछ famous players who played लिये the flyers यहूद पूर्व ओकलैंड a 's outfielder Ozzie Canseco और पूर्व शिकागो शावक outfielder Dwight स्मिथ.
रेचल Hannah वाइज़ ( / वाइस / ; born 7 March 1970 ) is an अंग्रेज़ी फिल्मी और थिएटर अभिनेत्री और former fashion मॉडल.
वाइज़ began उसके एक्टिंग करियर at Trinity हॉल, कैम्ब्रिज in the जल्दी 1990s, तब प्रारंभ working in television, appearing in Inspector मोर्स, the British mini-series स्कारलेट and Black, और the टेलीविज़न फिल्मी Advocates ii.
वो बना उसके film début in the film Death यंत्र ( 1994 ), लकिन उसके breakthrough role came in the फिल्मी Chain प्रतिक्रिया ( 1996 ), leading to a high-profile भूमिका as Evelyn carnahan-o'connell in the films The Mummy ( 1999 ) और The मम्मी रिटर्न ( 2001 ).
अन्य notable films featuring वाइज़ are Enemy at the गेट्स, About a Boy, Constantine, The Fountain और The निरंतर माली, for जिससे she received an Academy पुरस्कार, a सुनहरी Globe और a स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं ' Guild award for उसके supporting role as टेसा Quayle.
She has been labelled an `` अंग्रेज़ी रोज़ '' since her minor role in Stealing सौंदर्य ( 1996 ).
वाइज़ also works in theatre.
Her स्टेज breakthrough थी the 1994 revival of noël Coward 's play डिज़ाइन लिये जीना, which अर्जित her the London Critics वृत्त पुरस्कार for the most promising newcomer.
Weisz 's performances भी include the 1999 donmar गोदाम production of Tennessee विलियम्स ' एकाएक, Last गर्मियाँ, और their 2009 पुनरुद्धार of A स्ट्रीटकार Named Desire.
उसके portrayal of Blanche dubois in the latter खेल earned her the आलोचकों ' Circle Theatre पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री.
वो रै recently played Evanora in Oz the ग्रेट और शक्तिशाली.
the American Civil War ( ACW ), also ज्ञात as the युद्ध between the राज्य or बस the Civil युद्ध ( see नामकरण ), थी a civil war fought इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त States ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और अनेक Southern स्लेव states कि घोषित उनके secession और formed the Confederate States of अमेरिका ( the `` confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war था इसके उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of slavery, विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into the western territories.
विदेशी powers किया not intervene.
बाद four सालो of bloody कॉम्बैट कि बाएँ over 600,000 सैनिको dead and destroyed much of the South 's अवसंरचना, the confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, और the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण process of restoring नेशनल unity and guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed स्लेव began.
In the 1860 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, republicans, led by अब्राहम lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त राज्य ' territories.
Lincoln जीती, लकिन before his inauguration on कूच 4, 1861, सात cotton-based slave राज्य formed the Confederacy.
outgoing Democratic President James बुकानन और the incoming republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration होता not initiate सिविल युद्ध.
Eight remaining स्लेव राज्य continued to reject calls लिये secession.
Confederate शक्तियां जब्त numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the confederacy.
A सलाम सम्मेलन failed to ढूँढें a सुलह, and दोनो पहलू prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय देशों were so निर्भर on `` किंग Cotton `` कि they would intervene ; none did और none पहचाना the नई confederate राज्य of अमेरिका.
hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट sumter, a कुंजी फोर्ट आयोजित by Union सैनिकों in दक्षिण कैरोलिना.
lincoln called लिये प्रत्येक state to provide सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट ; consequently, four अधिक slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union जल्द नियंत्रित the किनारा राज्य और स्थापित a नवल नाकेबंदी that अबोध the दक्षिणी economy.
the Eastern Theater थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
The पतझड़ 1862 confederate अभियान into Maryland ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ Confederate retreat at the Battle of antietam, dissuading अंग्रेजों intervention.
Lincoln issued the emancipation उदघोषणा, जिससे made ending गुलामी a war लक्ष्य.
To the वेस्ट, by गर्मियाँ 1862 the संघ destroyed the confederate river navy, तब much of उनके पश्चिमी सेना, and the Union at vicksburg विभाजित the Confederacy in two at the मिसिसिपी नदी.
in 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of gettysburg.
पश्चिमी सफलताओं led to Ulysses S. ग्रान्ट command of सब संघ armies in 1864.
in the Western Theater, विलियम T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta और marched to the समुद्र, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the रास्ता.
The Union marshaled the संसाधन और जनशक्ति to आक्रमण the Confederacy from सब दिशानिर्देश, and could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of attrition through the overland अभियान towards रिचमंड, the Confederate पूंजी.
the defending Confederate army failed, अग्रणी to Lee 's आत्मसमर्पण to Grant at Appomattox अदालत हाउस on अप्रैल 9, 1865.
the अमरीकी Civil War was एक of the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक युद्धों.
Railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, और mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
the mobilization of civilian कारखानों, खानों, shipyards, banks, transportation और food आपूर्तियाँ सब foreshadowed World War i.
it remains the deadliest युद्ध in अमरीकी history, resulting in the मौतों of an estimated 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined number of civilian हताहत.
Historian जॉन huddleston estimates the death टोल at ten प्रतिशत of all Northern males 20–45 years बूढ़ा, and 30 percent of सब Southern white males aged 18–40.
Potato bread is a रूप of bread in which potato replaces a portion of the regular wheat आटा.
It is पकाया in a किस्में of methods, सहित by baking it on a hot तवे or pan, or in an oven.
It may be leavened or unleavened, and may have a variety of अन्य ingredients baked into it.
the अनुपात of आलू to गेहूं flour varies significantly from recipe to रेसिपी, with some recipes having a majority of potato, and others having a बहुमत of गेहूं flour.
Some व्यंजनों call लिये mashed potatoes, with अन्य कॉलिंग लिये निर्जलित potato flakes.
it is उपलब्धियाँ as a वाणिज्यिक उत्पाद in अनेक देशों, साथ समान variations in ingredients, cooking method, and अन्य परिवर्तनीय.
the Pacific Time मण्डल observes मानक time by subtracting आठ घंटों इससे Coordinated सार्वभौमिक Time ( ).
The clock time in इस मण्डल is आधारित on the औसत सौर समय of the 120th मध्याह्न वेस्ट of the Greenwich वेधशाला.
During daylight saving time, its समय ऑफसेट is.
In the संयुक्त राज्य और Canada, इस time zone is generically पुकारा Pacific समय ( PT ).
specifically, it is प्रशांत मानक समय ( pst ) जब observing मानक time ( शीत ), and Pacific daylight समय ( PDT ) when observing daylight छायांकन time ( summer ).
सबसे of कनाडा uses daylight छायांकन time.
in मैक्सिको the utc−8 time zone is ज्ञात as the Northwest मण्डल, which is synchronized with the U.S. PDT daylight छायांकन schedule.
the largest नगर in the प्रशांत समय मण्डल is लॉस एंजिल्स in कैलिफ़ोर्निया from USA ; the नगर 's metropolitan area is the largest in the zone.
The मण्डल is एक hour ahead of the अलास्का समय Zone, एक घंटा behind the Mountain Time Zone और three घंटों behind the Eastern समय Zone.
स्टीरियो 8, commonly ज्ञात as the eight-track cartridge, eight-track tape, or simply eight-track, is a magnetic टेप sound recording technology.
it थी popular in the संयुक्त राज्य इससे the mid-1960s through to the early 1980s, लकिन थी अपेक्षाकृत अनजान in many European countries.
it was, however, बहुत लोकप्रिय in the संयुक्त Kingdom दौरान this period.
स्टीरियो 8 was निर्मित in 1964 by a consortium led by Bill Lear of Lear जेट Corporation, along with ampex, घाट मोटर कम्पनी, General Motors, मोटोरोला, और RCA Victor रिकॉर्ड ( RCA ).
it थी a further development of the समान stereo-pak four-track कार्ट्रिज निर्मित by Earl `` madman '' muntz.
a बाद quadraphonic संस्करण of the format was announced by आरसीए in April 1970 और first ज्ञात as quad-8, then बाद changed to just q8.
Ramesses ii ( 1303 bc – जुलाई or August 1213 BC ; Egyptian :, alternatively transcribed as rameses और Ramses or ), referred to as रामेसेस the ग्रेट, was the third मिश्र pharaoh ( reigned 1279 bc – 1213 bc ) of the उन्नीसवीं राजवंश.
he is often regarded as the greatest, most celebrated, और सबसे शक्तिशाली pharaoh of the मिश्र साम्राज्य.
उसके successors and later Egyptians पुकारा उसे the `` Great Ancestor. ''
Ramesses II led अनेक military रिझाने into the Levant, re-asserting Egyptian control over canaan.
he also led expeditions to the south, into Nubia, commemorated in inscriptions at beit el-wali और gerf hussein.
at आयु चौदह, Ramesses थी नियुक्त प्रिंस Regent by his पिता सेती I.
He is believed to have लिया the सिंहासन in उसके लेट किशोर और is ज्ञात to have ruled Egypt इससे 1279 BC to 1213 BC लिये 66 years और 2 months, according to both Manetho और Egypt 's समकालीन ऐतिहासिक रिकॉर्ड.
he थी एकबार कहा to have जिया to be 99 years old, but it is अधिक संभावित कि he died in his 90th or 91st year.
If he became Pharaoh in 1279 bc as सबसे Egyptologists आज मानना, he होता have assumed the throne on May 31, 1279 bc, आधारित on उसके known accession date of iii shemu दिन 27.
रामेसेस II मनाये an unprecedented 14 sed festivals ( the first held after तीस years of a pharaoh 's reign, and then प्रत्येक three सालो ) दौरान his reign—more than कोई अन्य pharaoh.
On his death, he थी दफ्न in a tomb in the घाटी of the किंग्स ; उसके देह थी बाद moved to a royal संचय जहाँ it थी खोजा in 1881, and is अभी on प्रदर्शक in the Cairo संग्रहालय.
The जल्दी भाग of his reign was केन्द्रित on भवन cities, temples and monuments.
He established the city of Pi-Ramesses in the Nile Delta as his नई पूंजी and main base for उसके अभियान in सीरियाई.
This city was निर्मित on the remains of the नगर of Avaris, the पूंजी of the Hyksos जब वे took over, और थी the स्थान of the प्रमुख Temple of नियत.
he is also ज्ञात as Ozymandias in the Greek स्त्रोत, from a लिप्यन्तरण into Greek of a part of रामेसेस 's throne नाम,, `` ra 's mighty truth, chosen of ra ''.
The टेक्सास रेंजरों are a professional बेसबॉल टोली located in the dallas-fort लायक metroplex, आधारित in Arlington, टेक्सास.
the Rangers मताधिकार is फिलहाल a member of the पश्चिमी Division of प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल 's अमरीकी लीग.
चूंकि, the Rangers have निभाई in Rangers ballpark in आर्लिंगटन in Arlington, Texas.
The team 's नाम is उधार from the प्रसिद्ध law enforcement agency of the वही name.
The मताधिकार was established in 1961 by the नाम of the वॉशिंगटन सीनेटरों, an expansion team awarded to Washington, d.C., after the नगर 's पहला ballclub, the असली वॉशिंगटन Senators, स्थानांतरित to Minnesota और became the जुड़वा.
बाद the season, the नई Senators moved to आर्लिंगटन, Texas, और debuted as the Rangers the following spring.
The टेक्सास Rangers बेसबॉल Club रै बना six दिखावे in the एमएलबी postseason, all following division championships, in 1996, 1998, 1999, 2010, 2011 और 2012.
In 2010, the रेंजरों advanced past the Division Series for the first समय, defeating the tampa Bay किरणें.
Texas then brought घर उनके पहला अमरीकी League pennant after धड़कन the नई यॉर्क Yankees in छह games.
in the 2010 World Series, the मताधिकार 's पहला, the रेंजरों गिरी to the सैन Francisco दिग्गज in five खेल.
Their लोन victory बना उन्हें the first Texas team to जीत a World Series खेल, the Houston Astros having been swept in their 2005 संसार Series रूप.
They repeated as American लीग champions the following साल, then lost the 2011 संसार Series to the st. लुई कार्डिनल्स in seven games.
Gaius जूलियस सीज़र (, July 100 BC – 15 कूच 44 BC ) थी a रोमन general, statesman, कौंसुल और notable लेखक of Latin गद्य.
he played a critical role in the events that led to the निधन of the रोमन Republic and the rise of the रोमन साम्राज्य.
In 60 BC, Caesar, Crassus और Pompey formed a राजनैतिक alliance कि was to dominate रोमन politics लिये several सालो.
Their attempts to amass शक्ति through populist tactics were opposed by the conservative elite भीतर the रोमन Senate, among उन्हें Cato the Younger with the बारंबार support of सिसरो.
सीज़र 's conquest of gaul, समाप्त by 51 bc, extended रोम 's territory to the अंग्रेज़ी चैनल और the Rhine.
सीज़र became the first रोमन सामान्य to cross दोनो जब he built a bridge आरपार the राइन और conducted the first आक्रमण of ब्रिटेन.
ये उपलब्धियाँ granted उसे unmatched सैन्य शक्ति and threatened to ग्रहण the standing of pompey, who had realigned खुद with the Senate बाद the death of crassus in 53 bc.
With the Gallic युद्धों concluded, the सीनेट ordered Caesar to lay down his सैन्य command और return to रोम.
सीज़र refused, and चिह्नित उसके defiance in 49 bc by crossing the rubicon with a legion, leaving his प्रांत and illegally प्रवेश रोमन territory under बाहें.
सिविल युद्ध resulted, from जिससे he उभरा as the unrivaled leader of रोम.
After assuming कंट्रोल of सरकारी, Caesar began a कार्यक्रम of social और governmental reforms, सहित the creation of the Julian calendar.
He centralised the अफसरशाही of the Republic and थी आखिरकार proclaimed `` तानाशाह in perpetuity ''.
लकिन the underlying political विरोध had नहीं महरूम resolved, और on the ides of कूच ( 15 कूच ) 44 BC, Caesar थी assassinated by a समूह of सीनेटरों led by Marcus junius Brutus.
a new श्रेणी of civil wars broke out, and the संवैधानिक government of the Republic was never restored.
Caesar 's अपनाया heir Octavian, later ज्ञात as Augustus, रोज़ to एकमात्र शक्ति, और the era of the रोमन Empire began.
much of सीज़र 's life is known इससे his own खाते of उसके military campaigns, और from other contemporary sources, mainly the अक्षर और भाषणों of सिसरो और the historical writings of Sallust.
The later biographies of सीज़र by Suetonius और प्लूटार्क हैं भी प्रमुख sources.
Caesar is deemed to be एक of the greatest military कमांडरों of history.
Linguistic मैप of Nigeria, Cameroon, and Benin.
चिह्न in अंग्रेज़ी, बाहर the विश्वविद्यालयों of लागोस
वहीँ हैं hundreds of languages बोला in सीरियल.
The प्रमुख languages are Yoruba, हौसा, Igbo, Edo, fulfulde, कनूरी, और Ibibio.
The आधिकारिक language of Nigeria, English, the पूर्व औपनिवेशिक भाषा, was चुनी to सुकर the cultural और linguistic एकता of the देश.
अंग्रेज़ी, however, remains an विशेष preserve of the country 's urban elite, and is नहीं widely बोला in rural areas, which comprise three quarters of the देशों जनसांख्यिकी.
सीरियल 's भाषाई diversity is a microcosm of Africa as a पूरे, encompassing तीन major अफ़्रीकी languages परिवारों : afroasiatic, nilo-saharan, and Niger–Congo.
सीरियल भी रै several as-yet unclassified languages, such as Cen tuum, which may represent a relic of an भी वृहद विविधता prior to the spread of the current language परिवारों.
daucus carota ( common names शामिल wild गाजर, ( uk ) बर्ड 's घोंसला, bishop 's lace, and Queen Anne 's lace ( उत्तर अमेरिका ) ) is a flowering plant in the family Apiaceae, देशी to temperate regions of यूरोपीय, दक्षिणपश्चिम Asia और naturalised to उत्तर अमेरिका और Australia.
Domesticated गाजर हैं cultivars of a subspecies, daucus carota subsp. sativus.
in the संयुक्त States, the title of federal judge प्रायः अर्थात् a judge appointed by the President of the संयुक्त States and पुष्टि by the United States Senate pursuant to the नियुक्ति Clause in आलेख ii of the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान.
in जोड to the परम् Court of the United States, जिनकी existence और कुछ aspects of whose jurisdiction हैं beyond the constitutional शक्ति of कॉंग्रेस to alter, acts of Congress have स्थापित 13 न्यायालयों of appeals ( भी पुकारा `` सर्किट न्यायालयों '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over अलग regions of the United States, and 94 संयुक्त States ज़िला न्यायालयों.
प्रत्येक judge appointed to ऐसे a court may be categorized as a संघीय न्यायधीश ; such स्थितियाँ include the Chief Justice and संबद्ध Justices of the परम् अदालत, Circuit Judges of the courts of appeals, and district न्यायाधीशों of the United States ज़िला courts.
सब of ये judges वर्णित thus far हैं referred to sometimes as `` आलेख iii judges '' क्युकी they कसरत the न्यायिक शक्ति vested in the judicial शाखा of the संघीय सरकारी by आलेख III of the u.S. संविधान.
in जोड, judges of the अदालत of International व्यापार exercise judicial शक्ति pursuant to आलेख iii.
अन्य judges serving in the federal courts, सहित मजिस्ट्रेट judges and दिवालियापन judges, are also sometimes referred to as `` संघीय न्यायाधीशों '' ; however, वे are neither appointed by the अध्यक्ष nor confirmed by the सीनेट, और उनके power derives इससे Article I instead.
See आलेख i and आलेख iii अधिकरणों.
नेल Kim Furtado ( born December 2, 1978 ) is a कनाडाई सिंगर, songwriter और अभिनेत्री.
She has बेची 20 लाख albums worldwide and अधिक 20 million singles, bringing उसके कुल बिक्री to over 40 लाख records around the संसार.
फ़र्टाडो first gained कीर्ति with her डेब्यू album, वाह, नेल !
, which spawned two कामयाब singles, `` i 'm जैसे a Bird `` and `` Turn Off the लाइट ``. ``
i 'm Like a Bird '' won a 2001 juno Award for सिंगल of the साल और a 2002 ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन मादा पॉप Vocal प्रदर्शन.
in 2003, Furtado released लोकगीत, which उत्पादित तीन international singles— `` powerless ( Say What तुम Want ) ``, `` कोशिश `` और `` força ``.
Three years बाद वो released Loose, a worldwide वाणिज्यिक success.
the एल्बम शाखित चार number-one हिट्स : `` Promiscuous ``, `` maneater ``, `` कह It सही `` and `` All Good Things ( आइये to an End ) ``.
बाद a three-year ब्रेक, वो released उसके पहला full-length स्पेनी एल्बम, Mi Plan, और Furtado received a Latin ग्रैमी for बेहतरीन Female पॉप Vocal Album.
in 2012, फ़र्टाडो 's fourth english-language स्टुडियो एल्बम, the स्पिरिट Indestructible थी released.
फ़र्टाडो 's work has earned उसके numerous पुरस्कार and accolades, including 2 Grammy पुरस्कार, 10 Juno Awards, 3 muchmusic वीडियो पुरस्कार and a स्टार on Canada 's चलना of Fame.
Creatures of the रात्रि is the दसवाँ स्टुडियो एल्बम by Kiss.
it is the band 's last एल्बम for कासाब्लांका रिकॉर्ड, the तभी लेबल the समूह था कभी recorded for at कि point.
The एल्बम was dedicated to the मेमोरी of कासाब्लांका संस्थापक and जल्दी चुंबन supporter neil Bogart, जो था died of cancer during the रिकॉर्डिंग sessions.
It is also the बैंड 's last एल्बम अंकित with Ace frehley credited as an आधिकारिक सदस्य ( जबतक 1998 's Psycho Circus ), and its पहला album with Vinnie विंसेंट as the initially uncredited lead guitarist ( Vincent होता later be credited, but not प्रदर्शित pictorially on the कवर, of 1985 's reissue of the एल्बम ).
Touch is a निर्णायक means of receiving सूचना.
This photo shows tactile markings identifying सीढ़ियाँ for visually impaired people.
the somatosensory प्रणाली is a विविध sensory प्रणाली comprising the receptors और processing centres to उपज the sensory modalities ऐसे as टच, तापमान, proprioception ( body position ), and nociception ( pain ).
The संवेदी receptors कवर the स्किन and epithelia, skeletal muscles, हड्डियों और joints, internal अंगों, और the cardiovascular प्रणाली.
While touch is माना one of the पाँच traditional होश, the impression of टच is formed from several modalities.
in आयुर्विज्ञान, the colloquial पद `` टच '' is प्रायः replaced साथ `` दैहिक होश '' to बेहतर प्रतिबिंबित the किस्में of mechanisms शामिल.
दैहिक होश are sometimes referred to as somesthetic होश, साथ the समझना कि somesthesis includes टच, proprioception and ( depending on usage ) भी haptic बोध.
the system प्रतिक्रियाएँ to diverse stimuli using different receptors : thermoreceptors, nociceptors, mechanoreceptors and chemoreceptors.
Transmission of information from the receptors passes via sensory nerves through tracts in the स्पाइनल cord and into the दिमाग.
Processing primarily occurs in the प्राथमिक somatosensory क्षेत्रफल in the parietal lobe of the दिमागी cortex.
The cortical homunculus was devised by वाइल्डर Penfield.
At its simplest, the system works when activity in a संवेदी न्यूरॉन is triggered by a विशिष्ट stimulus ऐसे as ऊष्मा ; इस signal आखिरकार passes to an क्षेत्रफल in the दिमाग uniquely attributed to कि क्षेत्रफल on the body—this allows the processed stimulus to be felt at the सही स्थान.
the point-to-point मानचित्रण of the body surfaces in the दिमाग is पुकारा a homunculus और is essential in the सृष्टि of a देह image.
इस brain-surface ( `` cortical '' ) मैप is नहीं immutable, however.
नाटकीय shifts can occur in जवाब to स्ट्रोक or चोट.
Magnolia is a विशाल genus of परिचय 210 flowering संयंत्र प्रजाति in the subfamily Magnolioideae of the परिवार Magnoliaceae.
it is नामित बाद फ्रेंच वनस्पतिशास्त्री Pierre Magnol.
magnolia is an ancient genus.
appearing पहले bees did, the पुष्प विकसित to encourage परागण by beetles.
To avoid क्षति from pollinating भृंग, the carpels of magnolia flowers हैं extremely tough.
Fossilised specimens of magnolia acuminata have been मिला डेटिंग to 20 लाख सालो पहले, and of पौधे identifiably belonging to the Magnoliaceae dating to 95 लाख सालो ago.
Another aspect of Magnolias that is considered to represent an ancestral राज्य is कि the पुष्प bud is enclosed in a bract बल्कि than in sepals ; the perianth parts are undifferentiated और पुकारा tepals बल्कि than पृथक sepals और petals.
magnolia साझा the tepal characteristic with several other flowering पौधे near the आधार of the flowering plant lineage such as Amborella and Nymphaea ( as खूब as with अनेक अधिक recently निकला पौधे ऐसे as Lilium ).
the natural दायरा of magnolia प्रजाति is a disjunct वितरण, with a main केन्द्र in east और southeast Asia और a द्वितीयक केन्द्र in पूर्वी North America, सेंट्रल America, the वेस्ट Indies, and कुछ प्रजाति in दक्षिण America.
अंगूठा
`` White क्रिसमस '' is an इरविंग बर्लिन song reminiscing about an old-fashioned क्रिसमस सेटिंग.
according to the Guinness Book of World रिकॉर्ड, the संस्करण सुंग by Bing crosby is the best-selling सिंगल of all समय, with estimated sales in excess of 50 लाख नक़ल worldwide.
Accounts vary as to when और where बर्लिन wrote the song.
एक story is कि he wrote it in 1940, in गरम la Quinta, California, while staying at the la quinta होटल, a frequent हॉलीवुड retreat भी favored by writer-producer Frank Capra, although the एरिज़ोना biltmore भी claims the song थी लिखा there.
he प्रायः stayed up सब रात्रि writing — he बताई his सचिव, `` पकड़ें अपना pen और लो bas this सोंग.
i बस wrote the बेहतरीन सोंग I 've कभी लिखा — हेक, I बस wrote the बेहतरीन song that anybody 's ever लिखा ! ''
Cross-country skiing ( or XC स्कीइंग ) is a form of स्की touring in which participants propel themselves आरपार snow-covered terrain using skis और poles.
the activity is popular in अनेक स्थान साथ विशाल snowfields, primarily Northern यूरोपीय, कनाडा, और अलास्का.
Cross-country स्कीइंग is भाग of the Nordic स्कीइंग sport परिवार, जिससे शामिल ski jumping, Nordic combined ( cross-country skiing और स्की कूद ), Biathlon ( skiing और rifle marksmanship ) and ski-orienteering ( जिससे includes मैप navigation along snow trails और tracks ).
cross-country स्कीइंग is the आधुनिक स्टाइल of skiing कि most resembles prehistoric स्कीइंग, विशेषकर जब done in the backcountry.
It is भी सम्बन्धित to Telemark skiing.
A use tax in United States is complementary to sales tax जिससे means, if you ख़रीदे a taxable product/services without paying कोई बिक्री कर to vendor, तुम owe उपयोग tax.
तुम must स्वः assess use tax and अदा it directly to the राज्य जहाँ the उत्पाद were consumed or services यहूद rendered.
उपयोग tax typically is a कर on खपत but if you buy an item ( बगैर paying बिक्री कर ) और स्टोर it in your गोदाम initially, उपयोग tax applies to that location where goods यहूद भंडारित.
बाद on जब the फाइनल consumption takes place at some अन्य स्थान, तुम are required to pay the differential of tax rate to the क्षेत्राधिकार of परम place of consumption.
This really means कि you do n't have to pay both बिक्री Tax as well as उपयोग Tax on एक transaction.
It is तभी one or the other that you are required to pay on purchase of taxable products/services.
If vendor does n't चार्ज कोई Sales कर on इसके चालान then it is the obligation of the buyer to self assess उपयोग tax and pay it to the उचित Jurisdication.
उपयोग कर is generally charged at the वही tax rate of Sales Tax लकिन in some states the कर rate is अलग.
उपयोग tax is also termed as `` खपत Tax '' or `` उपभोक्ता उपयोग Tax ''.
a उपयोग कर is a type of excise tax levied in the संयुक्त राज्य by numerous state सरकारें.
It is assessed upon tangible निजी property purchased by a resident of the assessing राज्य लिये उपयोग, storage, or consumption in that राज्य ( not लिये पुनर्विक्रय ), regardless of जहाँ the purchase took प्लेस.
If a resident of a राज्य makes a purchase भीतर his घर state, पूरा sales tax is सशुल्क at the time of the transaction.
the use tax applies जब a निवासी of the assessing राज्य purchases an item that is नहीं subject to his घर state 's sales कर.
Usually, इस is due to out-of-state purchases, as खूब as ordering items through the मेल, by phone, or over the अंतरजाल इससे अन्य states.
The उपयोग कर is typically assessed at the same रेट as the बिक्री tax कि would have been owed ( if any ) था the same goods been खरीदा in the state of residence.
For उदाहरण, a resident of Massachusetts, with a 6.25 % `` बिक्री and use tax '' on निश्चित goods और services, purchases non-exempt goods or services in New Hampshire लिये use, storage or अन्य खपत in मैसाचुसेट्स.
अंतर्गत नई हैम्पशायर विधि, the New हैम्पशायर vendor collects no sales कर on the goods, but the Massachusetts purchaser/user must स्टिल अदा 6.25 % of the sales price directly to the Department of आय in Massachusetts as a use कर.
If the वही goods are खरीदा in a US राज्य कि करता collect sales tax लिये ऐसे goods at time of खरीदें, whatever कर यहूद सशुल्क by the क्रेता to कि राज्य can be deducted ( as a कर credit ) from the 6.25 % owed for subsequent उपयोग, storage or खपत in Massachusetts.
साथ few अपवाद, no state 's विक्रेता will charge the native state 's sales कर on goods shipped आउट of राज्य, अर्थ all goods ordered इससे out-of-state हैं essentially फ़्री of बिक्री कर.
The purchaser is इसलिए required to declare and pay the उपयोग कर to उसके घर state on ये ordered goods.
the assessing jurisdiction may make the उपयोग कर payable annually, but कुछ states आवश्यकता a मासिक payment.
For example, जहाँ a Vermont resident has not paid at तनिक 6 % बिक्री tax on property brought in for use in the state, Vermont law requires दाखिल a tax वापसी ( रूप SU-452 and भुगतान ) by the 20th दिन of the month following non-exempt purchases to avoid a $ 50 लेट शुल्क, a 5 % दंड per माह, to a अधिकतम of 25 %, प्लस statutory ब्याज on the unpaid tax और penalties.
ठेठ छूटों शामिल purchases by charitable non-profit संगठन or governmental agencies, purchases for पुनर्विक्रय in commerce, और purchases via `` कैज़ुअल बिक्री '' by individuals नहीं in the ordinary course of business.
Also नोट that there are हज़ारों of कर jurisdictions in the U.S. और अनेक have ever-changing lists of विशिष्ट types of goods and सेवाएं कि हैं नहीं taxable.
As an illustration of the complexities : a 2006 मैसाचुसेट्स law requires भुगतान of कर on `` pre-written '' ( not custom ) तन्त्र purchased और डाउनलोड over the अंतरजाल लिये संस्थापना और use in मैसाचुसेट्स, regardless of where it originates.
However, the वास्तविक use of the वही software डाउनलोड by a Massachusetts निवासी to a सर्वर in another राज्य remains a non-taxed `` सेवा ''.
In contrast, Arkansas generally करता नहीं tax anything delivered over the अंतरजाल ( ऐसे as downloaded तन्त्र or music ), except voip which is specifically पारिभाषित as taxable `` दूरसंचार सेवाएं ''.
Software ( pre-written or custom ) `` वितरित thru a tangible medium '' ( i.e., on disk ) in अरकंसास is taxable भी if ordered ऑनलाइन, except `` कस्टम तन्त्र for a particular customer '' which is non-taxable `` programming services '' even if वितरित on a डिस्क.
in most cases, this complexity is भाग of the underlying sales tax कानून ; but जबकि a brick-and-mortar स्टोर रै to deal साथ तभी the sales कर laws of its own location, remote sellers have to सौदे with the use कर कानून of many jurisdictions—up to every us राज्य और मोहल्ले that assesses उन्हें, if the company has a उपस्थिति or `` नेक्सस '' in every state ( as विशाल `` brick-and-mortar '' विक्रेता जैसे wal-mart and Best ख़रीदे do ).
in medicine, pulmonary hypertension ( PH ) is an increase of blood pressure in the pulmonary धमनी, pulmonary vein, or pulmonary capillaries, साथ known as the lung vasculature, अग्रणी to shortness of breath, dizziness, fainting, and अन्य लक्षण, सब of जिससे हैं exacerbated by exertion.
Pulmonary hypertension can be a कठोर disease with a markedly decreased कसरत सहिष्णुता and दिल विफलता.
It थी first पहचाना by dr. अर्नस्ट von Romberg in 1891.
according to the सबसे हाल वर्गीकरण, it can be one of पाँच different प्रकार : arterial, venous, hypoxic, thromboembolic or विविध.
सही
सही
sanuk, a प्रभाग of deckers बाहरी Corporation, is a जूते brand आधारित in दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
sanuk, the Thai word for मजा, थी founded by Southern कैलिफ़ोर्निया देशी जेफ़ kelley जब he started बनाना sandals out of indoor-outdoor पिंजरा.
the पहला उत्पाद निर्मित was ग्रीन carpeted and हकदार the `` Fur Real '' बाद one दूकान मालिक asked if the विलक्षणता चन्दन थी `` For रियल. ''
the Fur रियल पहला became a runaway hit through बुटीक stores and नहीं the intended लहरे दुकानें.
The novelty act थी followed up by a sandal wrapped in तार जाल, a तेंदुआ print संस्करण, and शैलियाँ बना आउट of a poncho सामग्री in a variety of रंगों.
Sanuk रै grown to include style options लिये मेन, women and युवावस्था और is वितरित across the संयुक्त States and in over 50 countries throughout Europe, एशिया, दक्षिण अमेरिका and Australia.
Sanuk centers itself around a धनात्मक जीवनशैली advocating the स्लोगन, `` Smile, Pass it on ! ``.
In कंप्यूटर science, सरणी प्रोग्रामिंग भाषाएं ( भी known as vector or multidimensional languages ) generalize operations on scalars to लागू transparently to vectors, matrices, और उच्चतर आयामी arrays.
Array programming primitives concisely express व्यापक विचार परिचय आंकड़ा manipulation.
The स्तर of conciseness can be dramatic in certain मामले : it is नहीं uncommon to find सरणी programming भाषा one-liners कि आवश्यकता more than a युगल of pages of Java code.
apl, designed by Ken iverson, was the first programming language to provide सरणी programming capabilities.
The mnemonic apl refers to the title of his seminal किताब `` A प्रोग्रामिंग भाषा '' और नहीं to arrays per se. iverson 's योगदान to rigor और clarity was probably अधिक महत्वपूर्ण than the सरल एक्सटेंशन of dimensions to कृत्यों.
In the United States an annuity अनुबंध is created जब an insured पार्टी, प्रायः an व्यक्तिगत, pays a जीवन बीमे कम्पनी a single प्रीमियम कि होगा later be वितरित back to the insured पार्टी over समय.
annuity contracts traditionally provide a गारंटी distribution of आय over time, such as via fixed payments, जबतक the death of the person or व्यक्तियों named in the contract or जबतक a final date, whichever आता पहला.
However, the बहुमत of modern annuity ग्राहक use annuities only to accumulate निधि free of आय और पूंजी gains कर और to later take lump-sum withdrawals without using the guaranteed-income-for-life विशेषता.
अध्यक्ष बराक Obama.
बराक ओबामा साथ उसके first Supreme Court nominee, Sonia सोटोमायोर.
following is a सूची of सब संयुक्त States संघीय judges नियुक्त by अध्यक्ष बराक Obama दौरान his presidency.
as of April 30, 2013, 187 ओबामा नामांकित to आलेख iii judgeships have महरूम confirmed by the संयुक्त राज्य Senate, namely दो justices to the परम् Court of the United राज्य, 35 न्यायाधीशों to the United राज्य न्यायालयों of appeals और 150 न्यायाधीशों to the United States ज़िला courts.
25 further nominations are फिलहाल awaiting Senate कार्रवाई.
वहीँ are currently 16 vacancies on the United States Courts of appeals, 67 vacancies on the United States ज़िला न्यायालयों and 22 additional federal judiciary vacancies कि are anticipated to occur पहले the समाप्त of ओबामा 's second term.
ओबामा रै not made कोई recess नियुक्ति to the संघीय courts.
ओबामा has बना दो nominations to the United States Court of International व्यापार, an आलेख iii tribunal.
ओबामा भी designated sitting न्यायधीश Emily C. हेविट of the संयुक्त राज्य Court of Federal Claims, an Article I court, to be Chief Judge of कि court.
This is a सूची of एयरपोर्ट in मैक्सिको, sorted by location.
मैक्सिको रै परिचय 1,834 एयरपोर्ट, रैंकिंग 2nd in number of airports in उत्तर अमेरिका, and 3rd in the world.
तभी major National और International एयरपोर्ट are दिखाया.
Agency debt also known as an Agency bond is a सुरक्षा, प्रायः a बंध, जारी by a u.S. government-sponsored एजेंसी.
The offerings of these एजेंसियों हैं backed लकिन नहीं guaranteed by the us सरकारी चूंकि the agencies हैं private entities.
कुछ prominent issuers of these प्रतिभूति are छात्र ऋण Marketing संघ ( Sallie mae ), Federal नेशनल बंधक संघ ( fannie mae ) और संघीय घर Loan बंधक Corporation ( फ्रेडी मैक ).
Agency securities are usually exempt from राज्य और लोकल कर, लकिन नहीं संघीय कर.
Agency debt is भी पुकारा an एजेंसी security.
The Susquehanna Steam इलेक्ट्रिक स्टेशन, a boiling water reactor.
The reactors हैं located inside the आयताकार containment इमारतें towards the सामने of the कूलिंग towers.
Three nuclear-powered American warships, ( शीर्ष to bottom ) नाभिकीय cruisers uss Bainbridge and USS Long बीच with uss Enterprise the पहला nuclear-powered वायुयान carrier in 1964.
Crew सदस्यों are spelling आउट Einstein 's mass-energy equivalence formula E = mc2 on the flight deck.
the Russian nuclear-powered icebreaker ns yamal on a 1994 joint expedition साथ the NSF.
Nuclear power is the उपयोग of sustained नाभिकीय परिवर्द्धन to generate heat और विद्युत.
Nuclear शक्ति plants provided परिचय 5.7 % of the संसार 's उर्जा और 13 % of the संसार 's electricity, in 2012.
in 2013, the iaea रपट कि there are 437 operational nuclear power reactors ( हालांकि not सब are producing electricity ), in 31 देशों.
in addition, there हैं लगभग 140 naval बरतन using nuclear propulsion in operation, संचालित by some 180 रिएक्टरों.
वहीँ is an जारी debate परिचय the use of नाभिकीय उर्जा.
Proponents, such as the संसार नाभिकीय संघ, the IAEA and पर्यावरणविद लिये नाभिकीय उर्जा contend कि nuclear power is a चिरस्थायी उर्जा सोर्स कि reduces carbon emissions.
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों, ऐसे as Greenpeace International और NIRS, मानना that नाभिकीय power मुद्राएँ अनेक खतरे to लोगों और the environment.
नाभिकीय power संयंत्र दुर्घटनाओं शामिल the chernobyl विपत्ति ( 1986 ), Fukushima daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति ( 2011 ), और the तीन मील द्वीप accident ( 1979 ).
वहीँ have भी been some nuclear-powered पनडुब्बी mishaps.
Research into safety सुधार is continuing and नाभिकीय संलयन, believed to be safer, may be used in the भविष्य.
as of 2012, according to the IAEA, विश्वव्यापी वहीँ यहूद 68 civil nuclear power रिएक्टरों under construction in 15 देशों.
In the US the पंक्तियां of लगभग हाफ इसके रिएक्टरों have been विस्तारित to 60 सालो, and plans to निर्माण another दर्जन हैं अंतर्गत गंभीर विचार.
However, Japan 's 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear विपत्ति prompted a पुनर्विचार of नाभिकीय उर्जा policy in many countries.
जर्मनी decided to बंद सब its reactors by 2022, and Italy has banned नाभिकीय power.
Following फुकुशिमा, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय उर्जा एजेंसी halved इसके अनुमान of additional nuclear generating capacity to be built by 2035.
Photograph of the बर्लिन वॉल लिया इससे the वेस्ट side.
The Wall was निर्मित in 1961 to prevent ईस्ट germans इससे fleeing इससे Communism.
It was an iconic प्रतीक of the ठंडा War and इसके पतन in 1989 marked the समाप्त of the युद्ध.
The ठंडा War, often dated इससे 1947 to 1991, was a sustained राज्य of राजनैतिक and military tension between शक्तियां in the Western bloc, वर्चस्व by the United States साथ NATO among its allies, और शक्तियां in the Eastern bloc, वर्चस्व by the सोवियत Union along with the Warsaw अनुबंध.
This began after the कामयाबी of उनके अस्थाई wartime गठबंधन विरूद्ध Nazi Germany, leaving the USSR और the US as two superpowers साथ profound economic and political मतभेद.
A न्यूट्रल गुट arose with the Non-Aligned गति संस्थापित by मिश्र, India, और Yugoslavia ; this गुट rejected association साथ either the US-led West or the Soviet-led ईस्ट.
The Cold युद्ध was so named क्युकी the दो major powers—each possessing nuclear weapons and thereby threatened with mutual assured विनाश —never met in direct military combat.
Instead, in their संघर्ष लिये global influence they engaged in जारी psychological warfare and in regular अप्रत्यक्ष confrontations through proxy wars.
Cycles of सापेक्ष शांत would be followed by high टेंशन, which could have led to world war.
The tensest टाइम्स यहूद दौरान the Berlin Blockade ( 1948–1949 ), the Korean युद्ध ( 1950–1953 ), the स्वेज संकट ( 1956 ), the Berlin संकट of 1961, the Cuban missile संकट ( 1962 ), the Vietnam War ( 1959–1975 ), the Yom kippur War ( 1973 ), the सोवियत युद्ध in अफगानिस्तान ( 1979–1989 ), the सोवियत downing of Korean एयर लाइनों उड़ान 007 ( 1983 ), और the `` Able Archer '' नाटो military exercises ( 1983 ).
The विरोध was expressed through सैन्य coalitions, strategic conventional force deployments, extensive aid to क्लाएंट राज्य, espionage, massive propaganda campaigns, conventional and नाभिकीय arms दौड़, appeals to neutral राष्ट्र, फंसने at sports कार्यक्रम ( in particular the ओलंपिक ), and technological प्रतियोगिताओं ऐसे as the स्पेस Race.
the us and ussr became शामिल in political और सैन्य conflicts in the Third संसार देशों of लैटिन America, Africa, the मध्य East, और Southeast एशिया.
To alleviate the रिस्क of a संभावित नाभिकीय war, both पहलू sought relief of राजनैतिक tensions through détente in the 1970s.
in the 1980s, the United States increased diplomatic, सैन्य, और आर्थिक pressures on the सोवियत Union, at a time जब the कम्युनिस्ट राज्य थी already कष्ट from economic stagnation.
In the mid-1980s, the नई सोवियत अध्यक्ष Mikhail गोर्बाचेव introduced the liberalizing reforms of perestroika ( `` reorganization '', 1987 ) और ग्लास्नोस्त ( `` खुलेपन '', ca. 1985 ).
Pressures लिये national स्वतंत्रता grew stronger in Eastern यूरोपीय, especially कैंडल.
They reached a breaking point when Gorbachev refused to use सोवियत troops to support the faltering सरकारी of ईस्ट जर्मनी in late 1989.
Within सप्ताह सब the satellite states broke फ़्री इससे मास्को in a peaceful wave of revolutions ( वहीँ थी some violence in रोमानिया ).
The pressures escalated अंदर the सोवियत Union, जहाँ Communism fell and the USSR was formally dissolved in late 1991.
The United States remained as the world 's तभी superpower.
The Cold युद्ध और इसके कार्यक्रम have बाएँ a significant legacy, and it is often referred to in popular संस्कृति, विशेषकर in मीडिया featuring themes of espionage and the threat of nuclear warfare.
pikes Peak राज्य पार्क is a राज्य park of आयोवा, यूएसए, featuring a bluff निहार the अपर Mississippi नदी opposite the संगम of the विस्कॉन्सिन नदी.
The park is संचालित by the Iowa Department of Natural संसाधन.
it is nearly a thousand एकड़ ( 4 km2 ) in extent.
the निकटतम नगर is McGregor, Iowa.
Iowa Highway 76 लगभग defines its उत्तरी boundary.
it gets इसके नाम from the Iowa अवतार of pikes Peak, a विशेषकर ऊँची point निहार the gorge of the Upper Mississippi, और like Pikes शिखर in कोलोराडो, is नामित लिये zebulon पाइक.
वहीँ are चढ़ाई trails, campgrounds and rv facilities.
Mountain bikes हैं permitted in निश्चित portions of the park.
aside इससे recreational development, the जमीन in the park was never साफ और to a विशाल extent remains as it थी पहले the advent of white उपनिवेश.
It is part of a larger जटिल of पार्क, reserves और refuges which शामिल Effigy mounds National Monument, the विभिन्न components of the पीला नदी राज्य वन, the विशाल Upper मिसिसिपी River National Wildlife and मछली Refuge and much smaller, much less खूब known Driftless क्षेत्रफल National Wildlife शरण.
the पूर्वोत्तर आयोवा विरासत ट्रेल System is undergoing विकास, and will connect तत्व of these sites.
Zac Brown Band is an American country/folk band आधारित in Atlanta, Georgia.
the lineup consists of Zac भूरा ( सीसे vocals, गिटार ), Jimmy De Martini ( चलाऊ, vocals ), John Driskell हॉपकिंस ( bass गिटार, vocals ), Coy Bowles ( गिटार, keyboards ), क्रिस fryar ( drums ), Clay Cook ( guitar, keyboards, mandolin, steel गिटार, vocals ), और Daniel de los रेयेस ( percussion ).
the बैंड रै toured throughout the United States, सहित a slot on the 2009 and 2010 bonnaroo म्यूज़िक पर्व.
वे have भी अंकित पाँच स्टुडियो एल्बम, and charted nine Number एक singles on the Billboard country चार्ट : `` मुर्गा fried ``, `` Toes ``, `` राजमार्ग 20 सवारी ``, `` Free ``, `` as वो 's चलना Away ``, `` Colder मौसम ``, `` घुटना गहन ``, `` Keep Me in Mind ``, और `` Goodbye in Her आँखें `` in addition to the singles `` Whatever it is `` and `` no Hurry ``, जिससे peaked at क्रमांक 2 on the same चार्ट.
बात रेडियो is a रेडियो format containing discussion परिचय topical issues.
सबसे shows हैं regularly hosted by a सिंगल व्यक्तिगत, and often feature साक्षात्कार with a क्रमांक of different अतिथि.
Talk radio typically शामिल an तत्व of listener भागीदारी, प्रायः by प्रसारण live बातचीत between the मेजबान and listeners who `` कॉल in '' ( प्रायः via telephone ) to the दिखाएँ.
Listener योगदान हैं प्रायः screened by a दिखाएँ 's producer ( s ) in अनुक्रम to अधिकतम audience ब्याज and, in the मामला of वाणिज्यिक बात रेडियो, attract विज्ञापनदाता.
Generally, the shows हैं organized into खण्ड, each separated by a ठहराना for विज्ञापन ; however, in पब्लिक or non-commercial radio, म्यूज़िक is sometimes निभाई in प्लेस of commercials to separate the कार्यक्रम खण्ड.
विसंगतियाँ of बात रेडियो शामिल रूढ़िवादी talk, hot बात, उदार talk और खेल talk.
जबकि talk रेडियो has historically been संबद्ध साथ am/fm, starting around 2005 the technology for internet-based talk-radio shows became cost effective in the form of podcasts.
अभी, it is संभावित लिये an व्यक्तिगत to use a किस्में of सेवाएं to मेजबान an internet-based talk-radio show बगैर carriage by a traditional रेडियो स्टेशन.
in addition TV प्रोग्रामिंग from बात and न्यूज आउटलेट ऐसे as BBC, CNN, Bloomberg और Fox are now often उपलब्धियाँ expanding the world of बात रेडियो further.
Talk radio listening is अभी enjoyed not तभी on radios, लकिन a wide variety of अन्य डिवाइस और services including pcs using itunes, स्टेशन निर्देशिका such as Tunein, दिखाएँ निर्देशिका smartphones with ऐप्स such as stitcher.
hippa is a genus of decapod crustaceans in the family Hippidae, containing the following species:
Hippa adactyla Fabricius, 1787
Hippa admirabilis ( thallwitz, 1892 )
Hippa alcimede ( De Man, 1902 )
hippa australis Hale, 1927
hippa carcineutes Holthuis & Manning, 1970
hippa celaeno ( de man, 1896 )
hippa granulatus ( borradaile, 1904 )
hippa hirtipes ( Dana, 1852 )
Hippa indica haig, मुरुगन & बालकृष्णन नायर, 1986
hippa marmorata ( Hombron & Jacquinot, 1846 )
Hippa ovalis ( A. Milne-Edwards, 1862 )
Hippa picta ( heller, 1861 )
Hippa strigillata ( stimpson, 1860 )
Hippa testudinaria ( Herbst, 1791 )
hippa truncatifrons ( miers, 1878 )
It is closely related to the genus emerita, और species have प्रायः been transferred between the दो genera.
जकार्ता ( ), officially ज्ञात as the खास Capital प्रदेश of जकार्ता ( ), is the पूंजी और largest city of इंडोनेशिया.
स्तिथ on the northwest coast of Java, जकार्ता is the देश 's आर्थिक, सांस्कृतिक और राजनैतिक केन्द्र, और साथ a population of 10,187,595 as of November 2011, it is the most populous city in Indonesia and in Southeast एशिया, और is the thirteenth सबसे populated नगर in the world.
the आधिकारिक महानगर क्षेत्रफल, known as jabodetabek ( a नाम formed by combining the आरंभिक syllables of Jakarta, Bogor, Depok, Tangerang और bekasi ), is the दूसरी largest in the संसार, yet the metropolis 's उपनगरों स्टिल continue परे it.
जकार्ता is सूचीबद्ध as a वैश्विक city in the 2008 Globalization और संसार शहरों Study समूह and संजाल ( GaWC ) शोध.
और has an क्षेत्रफल of.
This area has population of खूब over 28 million, बनाना it one of the world 's largest conurbations in शर्तें of क्रमांक of inhabitants.
In 2011, Jakarta क्रमित 17th among the world 's 200 largest cities, a जम्प from इसके 2007 ranking of 171.
जकार्ता has grown अधिक rapidly than kuala lumpur, बीजिंग and Bangkok.
Established in the चौथी सदी, the city became an important trading port for the किंगडम of sunda.
It थी the de facto capital of the डच East इंडीज ( when it थी ज्ञात as batavia ) और रै जारी as the पूंजी of Indonesia चूंकि the देश 's independence was declared in 1945.
The नगर is the सीट of the आसियान Secretariat.
Jakarta is परोसा by the soekarno–hatta अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport, Halim perdanakusuma International Airport, and Tanjung Priok Harbour ; it is connected by अनेक intercity and commuter railways, and served by several बस लाइनों कार्यशील on सुरक्षित busways.
A typical home एयर conditioning खिड़की unit.
Air conditioning is the process of altering the गुण of air ( primarily तापमान and आर्द्रता ) to more favourable conditions.
More generally, एयर conditioning can refer to कोई रूप of technological cooling, heating, वेंटिलेशन, or कीटाणुशोधन that modifies the condition of air.
an एयर कंडीशनर ( प्रायः referred to as air con, AC or A/C, और नहीं to be confused with the संक्षिप्त for प्रत्यावर्ती वर्तमान ) is a प्रमुख or home appliance, प्रणाली, or mechanism designed to change the एयर तापमान और humidity भीतर an क्षेत्रफल ( used लिये cooling and sometimes हीटिंग depending on the air गुण at a given समय ).
The cooling is typically किया using a simple प्रशीतन cycle, but sometimes evaporation is प्रयुक्त, commonly for comfort cooling in buildings and motor vehicles.
In निर्माण, a पूरा प्रणाली of heating, वेंटिलेशन and एयर कंडीशनिंग is referred to as `` HVAC ``.
`` 6 पैर 7 Foot '' ( also styled as `` 6'7 '' ) is a सोंग by अमरीकी rapper Lil वेन featuring label mate, Cory Gunz.
It is taken from his नवीं studio एल्बम, tha Carter IV ( 2011 ).
It was officially released on itunes on December 16, 2010.
it थी उत्पादित by `` A Milli `` producer बांग्लादेश.
The सोंग नमूने `` Day-O ( The Banana Boat Song ) `` by Harry belafonte.
dc Talk ( styled as dc Talk ), is a Grammy -winning Christian rap trio.
the group थी formed in Lynchburg, Virginia in 1987 by टोबी McKeehan, Michael tait, और केविन Max Smith.
वे have released पाँच major studio albums together : DC बात ( 1989 ), Nu Thang ( 1990 ), फ़्री at पिछला ( 1992 ), Jesus freak ( 1995 ), and Supernatural ( 1998 ).
In 2002, the Encyclopedia of समकालीन Christian Music पुकारा dc बात `` the सबसे popular overtly ईसाई अधिनियम of सब time. ''
In 2000, the group released an ep titled सोलो जिससे contained दो solo songs from each member.
चूंकि कि समय, dc Talk has महरूम on an indefinite hiatus, and the three band members have प्रत्येक led सोलो careers.
They have performed and recorded individual songs साथ several टाइम्स दौरान the 2000s, although the समूह never officially reunited or disbanded.
the group 's musical style evolved significantly throughout उनके career.
उनके first दो releases, DC Talk और Nu थांग, यहूद of the हिप hop genre.
dc बात 's third एल्बम, Free at पिछला, also mainly took influence इससे the hip हॉप style, हालांकि उनके म्यूज़िक began taking on a rock sound.
The तिकड़ी 's last two albums, Jesus Freak और अलौकिक, यहूद predominantly pop चट्टान.
The Bible is a संकलन of many shorter books written at different times and बाद समवेत into the biblical canon.
All लकिन the shortest of ये books have महरूम विभाजित into chapters, generally a page or so in length, चूंकि the early 13th century.
Since the mid-16th सदी, each chapter has been further divided into `` आयतें '' of a few short लाइनों or sentences.
Sometimes a sentence spans अधिक than one श्लोक, as in the case of, and sometimes there is अधिक than एक sentence in a सिंगल श्लोक, as in the case of.
As the अध्याय और verse divisions यहूद not भाग of the original ग्रन्थ, वे form part of the paratext of the Bible.
the Jewish divisions of the Hebrew text differ at various अंक from those used by Christians.
लिये उदाहरण, in यहूदी tradition, the ascriptions to many Psalms हैं regarded as independent आयतें, making 116 more आयतें, whereas the established Christian अभ्यास is to count और number each psalm ascription together साथ the first verse following it.
Some chapter divisions also occur in अलग स्थान, e.g. in यहूदी Bibles is गिने as in ईसाई अनुवाद.
An index ( बहुवचन : indexes ) is a सूची of words or phrases ( 'headings ' ) and संबद्ध pointers ( 'locators ' ) to where उपयोगी सामग्री relating to that heading can be मिला in a दस्तावेज़.
in a परंपरागत back-of-the-book अनुक्रमणिका the headings होगा शामिल names of people, places and कार्यक्रम, and अवधारणाओं selected by a person as होने relevant और of ब्याज to a possible reader of the book.
The pointers हैं typically page numbers, paragraph संख्याएँ or खण्ड numbers.
in a library कैटलॉग the शब्द हैं authors, titles, subject headings, etc., and the संकेतक हैं कॉल संख्याएँ.
Internet search engines, such as Google, and पूरा टेक्स्ट searching help provide access to सूचना लकिन are नहीं as selective as an index, as they provide non-relevant links, और may miss relevant information if it is not phrased in exactly the way वे expect.
in United States financial regulation, a suspicious कार्यकलाप रपट ( or sar ) is a report बना by a financial संस्था to the Financial Crimes Enforcement संजाल ( FinCEN ), an agency of the संयुक्त States विभाग of the राजकोष, regarding संदिग्ध or potentially संदिग्ध activity.
Facebook on the ad-tech 2010
फेसबुक is an online social नेटवर्किंग सेवा, जिनकी name stems इससे the colloquial name लिये the किताब दिए to विद्यार्थी at the start of the अकादमिक साल by some विश्वविद्यालयों administrations in the संयुक्त राज्य to सहायता students मिलेंगी to जान each other.
It थी founded in February 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg with his college roommates और fellow हार्वर्ड University students Eduardo saverin, Andrew McCollum, डस्टिन Moskovitz और Chris ह्यूजेस.
The website 's membership थी initially सीमित by the संस्थापकों to हार्वर्ड विद्यार्थी, but थी expanded to अन्य कॉलेजों in the Boston area, the Ivy लीग, और स्टैनफोर्ड University.
it gradually added support for students at विभिन्न other विश्वविद्यालयों before opening to high स्कूल students, और eventually to anyone aged 13 और over.
फेसबुक अभी allows कोई उपयोक्ता जो घोषित themselves to be at least 13 सालो old to become registered उपयोक्ता of the site.
Users जरूर register पहले using the site, बाद जिससे वे may create a निजी प्रोफ़ाइल, add other users as मित्रों, and exchange messages, सहित स्वचालित notifications जब they अद्यतन their profile.
additionally, users may join common-interest user groups, organized by कार्यस्थल, school or कॉलेज, or other characteristics, और categorize उनके मित्रों into lists ऐसे as `` People From कार्य '' or `` बंद मित्रों ''.
As of सितंबर 2012, Facebook रै over one billion active उपयोक्ता.
According to a May 2011 Consumer रिपोर्ट्स सर्वेक्षण, there हैं 7.5 लाख children under 13 with खाते और 5 लाख under 10, violating the साईट 's terms of सेवा.
in May 2005, Accel साझेदार invested $ 12.7 million in Facebook, और जिम breyer added $ 1 million of his अपना धन to the घट.
A जनवरी 2009 Compete.com study ranked Facebook as the most used सोशल नेटवर्किंग service by worldwide monthly क्रियाशील users.
Entertainment साप्ताहिक शामिल the site on इसके end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list, saying, `` कैसा on earth किया we stalk our exes, remember our co-workers ' birthdays, कीड़ा our मित्रों, and खेल a rousing खेल of scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
आलोचकों, such as Facebook detox, state कि फेसबुक रै turned into a national obsession in the संयुक्त राज्य, resulting in विशाल amounts of time खोया और encouraging narcissism.
quantcast estimates फेसबुक has 138.9 लाख मासिक अद्वितीय u.S. विज़िटर in may 2011.
according to Social Media आज, in April 2010 an estimated 41.6 % ( 129.5 लाख ) of the U.S. population had a Facebook खाता.
Nevertheless, फेसबुक 's मार्केट growth started to स्टाल in some regions, with the site losing 7 million क्रियाशील उपयोक्ता in the संयुक्त States और कनाडा in May 2011.
Facebook आखिरकार दायर for an initial पब्लिक offering on February 1, 2012, and was headquartered in Menlo पार्क, California.
Facebook inc. began selling भण्डार to the पब्लिक और trading on the नैस्डैक on may 18, 2012.
सल्फोनेमाइड functional समूह
hydrochlorothiazide is a सल्फोनेमाइड और a thiazide.
furosemide is a सल्फोनेमाइड, but not a thiazide.
सल्फोनेमाइड or sulphonamide is the आधार of अनेक समूह of drugs.
The असली जीवाणुरोधी sulfonamides ( sometimes पुकारा sulfa drugs or sulpha drugs ) are synthetic रोगाणुरोधी agents that contain the sulfonamide समूह.
Some sulfonamides are भी devoid of जीवाणुरोधी activity, e.g., the anticonvulsant sultiame.
The sulfonylureas और thiazide diuretics हैं newer ड्रग groups आधारित on the जीवाणुरोधी sulfonamides.
Sulfa allergies हैं आम, hence medications containing sulfonamides are prescribed carefully.
it is महत्वपूर्ण to make a भेद between sulfa drugs और अन्य sulfur-containing दवाएँ and एडिटिव, such as sulfates और sulfites, which are chemically unrelated to the सल्फोनेमाइड group, and do नहीं cause the same hypersensitivity प्रतिक्रियाएँ seen in the sulfonamides.
This is a list of वर्ण इससे George लोपेज़.
घरेलू geese ( आंसर आंसर domesticus or Anser cygnoides ) हैं domesticated धूसर geese ( either ग्रेलैग geese or swan Geese ) kept as मुर्गीपालन for their मांस, eggs, और bas feathers since ancient times.
30 Seconds to Mars is an American rock बैंड from Los Angeles, formed in 1998.
Since 2007, the band has consisted of actor jared Leto ( सीसे vocals, rhythm गिटार, songwriter ), Shannon leto ( ड्रम, percussion ) और tomo miličević ( lead guitar, keyboards ).
Following the प्रस्थान of Matt Wachter ( अभी of फ़रिश्ते & airwaves ) in 2007, Tim kelleher became the bassist for the समूह, performing सजीव तभी साथ both Jared and Miličević रिकॉर्डिंग bass for स्टुडियो recordings, while Braxton Olita ( keyboards ) थी added to the touring लाइनअप in 2009.
previously, the group also featured guitarists solon bixler ( अभी of ग्रेट Northern ) and केविन Drake ( अभी of Polaroid चुंबन ).
To date, 30 सेकेंड to Mars have released three स्टुडियो एल्बम – 30 सेकेंड to Mars ( 2002 ), A खूबसूरत झूठ ( 2005 ), This is युद्ध ( 2009 ) and तीन विस्तारित plays – AOL Sessions Undercover ( 2007 ), to the किनारे of the Earth ( 2008 ), और एमटीवी Unplugged : 30 Seconds to मंगल ( 2011 ).
30 सेकेंड to मंगल ' म्यूज़िक रै महरूम associated mostly with neo-prog, progressive मेटल और post-grunge, but they have भी included भावनाएं, screamo, space rock and synthrock into उनके म्यूज़िक.
They have been compared to Pink Floyd ( who यहूद an influence on उनके कार्य ) and औजार because of their use of philosophical और spiritual गीत, अवधारणा albums और उनके उपयोग of experimental म्यूज़िक.
A क्रिसमस Story is a 1983 American Christmas कॉमेडी फिल्मी based on the छोटी कहानियां और semi-fictional anecdotes of author और raconteur Jean Shepherd, based on उसके book in God we Trust, सब अन्य Pay Cash, with कुछ तत्व निकला from वांडा हिक्की 's Night of सुनहरी Memories.
it थी निर्देशित by bob क्लार्क.
the film रै चूंकि become a holiday classic and is दिखाया numerous टाइम्स on television दौरान the Christmas ऋतु on the संजाल tbs, प्रायः in a 24-hour marathon.
In 2012, the फिल्मी थी चयनित for preservation in the नेशनल फिल्मी रजिस्ट्री by the पुस्तकालयों of Congress for being `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
a जो 's केकड़ा shack branch in सैन डिएगो, CA.
the building थी initially a rowing क्लबों and थी later परिवर्तित into the रेस्तरां.
Joe 's केकड़ा shack is an American कड़ी of beach-themed seafood casual dining restaurants owned by ignite रेस्तरां Group.
Founded in ह्यूस्टन, टेक्सास, the रेस्तरां अभी operates स्थितियाँ सब आरपार the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका.
It serves seafood और अमरीकी cuisine.
the रेस्तरां also have a तोहफा दूकान that sells facetious t-shirts featuring phrases advertising Joe 's seafood choices.
It is आधारित in Houston, टेक्सास.
नई York City Cruise लाइनर टर्मिनल in नरक 's रसोईघर at 52nd Street.
The नई York यात्री जलयान Terminal ( भी known as the Luxury लाइनर Row or मैनहटन Cruise Terminal or नई यॉर्क Cruise टर्मिनल ) is a टर्मिनल लिये ocean-going passenger ships on मैनहटन 's वेस्ट पक्ष.
the टर्मिनल consists of North नदी Piers 88, 90, 92 and 94 on the हडसन River between West 46th and वेस्ट 54th गली.
( as a सामान्य नियम, pier संख्याएँ in मैनहटन can be determined by adding 40 to the सम्बन्धित cross-street. )
जहाजों now dock at पियर 88, 90 और 92.
बांध 94 on the उत्तर पक्ष is now used लिये प्रदर्शनी स्पेस.
Pier 86, once used by United States Lines, is अभी home to the USS Intrepid.
in 2003, the terminal संभाला 900,000 passengers.
The नगर is forecasting कि 1.5 लाख होगा use the टर्मिनल by 2017.
The piers are long और अलावा.
वे were first completed in 1935 to replace the Chelsea पियर as the नगर 's luxury liner टर्मिनल.
the नई टर्मिनल was built to handle bigger जहाजों that था outgrown the चेल्सी पियर.
The piers were संवर in 1970 और हैं currently undergoing another $ 150 लाख नवीकरण.
the संवर plans call for it to handle तीन large जहाजों at a time.
in doing renovations, the नगर is also considering decommissioning Pier 92.
लोगो of the नई यॉर्क क्रूज terminal.for
decades the terminal थी the तभी ocean-going passenger टर्मिनल in नई यॉर्क harbor.
With an upsurge in क्रूज जलयान traffic और the टर्मिनल 's ability to हैंडल comfortably तभी three large ships at a समय, दो new terminals have opened in the हार्बर — the Cape Liberty Cruise Port opened in 2004 in bayonne, नई जर्सी ( प्रयुक्त by Royal caribbean क्रूज लकीर, Celebrity क्रूज़ और azamara क्रूज़ ), और the Brooklyn Cruise Terminal ( प्रयुक्त by the महारानी Mary 2 and अन्य जहाजों of the Carnival निगम cruise brands ) opened in 2006 in ब्रुकलीन, नई York.
The West पक्ष राजमार्ग takes a छोटी jog east इससे the पियर to नीचे West 42nd गली because जब the terminal थी निर्मित जमीन had to be taken away इससे Manhattan to allow for longer piers.
the us फौज corps of इंजीनियर्स, who control the waterfront आयाम, होता not extend the pierhead line दूर into the river, so the city extended the pier by cutting दूर at the land.
The city पहले did इस लिये the Chelsea पियर ; however in चेल्सी only लैंडफिल थी लिया away.
At the Passenger Terminal actual Manhattan schist was लिया दूर.
From डाउनस्ट्रीम in the river
Many प्रमुख passenger जहाजों have docked there, सहित the rms Queen Mary 2 and Freedom of the Seas, before the Brooklyn और bayonne terminals खोली.
the ss normandie caught fire and subsequently capsized at इसके बांध 88 berth दौरान संसार युद्ध II.
the Normandie, renamed uss Lafayette, lies capsized in the frozen mud at बांध 88 in the winter of 1942
Norwegian क्रूज लकीर 's जल्द to be नवीनतम जलयान the Norwegian breakaway होगा sail year-round out of the New यॉर्क यात्री Ship Terminal.
The नगर होगा खर्च $ 4 million to renovate and upgrade the क्रूज terminal to accommodate the ship.
This is an overview of the regular, recurring, और अन्य characters of the tv श्रेणी ncis.
ईसाई सही is a पद प्रयुक्त in the संयुक्त राज्य to describe right-wing ईसाई political समूह that are characterized by their strong support of socially conservative नीतियों.
ईसाई conservatives principally seek to लागू उनके understanding of the शिक्षाओं of Christianity to राजनीती and पब्लिक policy by proclaiming the मान of those teachings and/or by seeking to use those teachings to influence law and पब्लिक policy.
in the u.S., the Christian सही is an informal coalition formed around a core of धर्मान्तरण protestants that draws `` support इससे नीतियां conservative Catholics, Jews, mormons, और occasionally secularists '' जो share their goals.
the movement रै its जड़ें in अमरीकी politics going वापस as दूर the 1940s and has महरूम विशेषकर influential चूंकि the 1970s.
उनके influence draws, in part, इससे grassroots सक्रियता as खूब as उनके फ़ोकस on social मुद्दे और ability to motivate the electorate around those मुद्दे.
The Christian सही is notable आज लिये advancing socially रूढ़िवादी स्थितियाँ on issues सहित स्कूल prayer, स्टेम cell शोध, समलैंगिकता, contraception, गर्भपात, and pornography.
Although the Christian right is प्रायः संबद्ध साथ the u.S., the movement has been a key factor in the राजनीती of कनाडा, The नीदरलैंड्स, उत्तरी आयरलैंड और Australia, among others.
दूर East गति ( stylized as Far★East Movement or abbreviated FM ) is an American hip हॉप band quartet based in Los एंजिल्स.
the समूह formed in 2003 and consists of Kev nish ( Kevin Nishimura ), Prohgress ( जेम्स Roh ), j-splif ( Jae Choung ), and DJ Virman ( virman Coquia ).
Far ईस्ट Movement 's पहला अर्जी to कीर्ति was their सोंग `` गोलाकार गोलाकार '' प्रदर्शित in the हॉलीवुड movie, the Fast and the Furious : Tokyo Drift, and its subsequent soundtrack, वीडियो game और dvd.
चूंकि `` गोलाकार Round '', the group has महरूम featured on विभिन्न network shows including,, अनुगामी, गपशप Girl, and Finishing the खेल ( a प्रदर्शित फिल्मी at sundance 2007 ).
Their सिंगल `` जैसे a g6 `` hit क्रमांक one on the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 चार्ट and on iTunes as खूब in लेट October 2010.
Far East Movement भी रै the distinction of being the first asian-american group to earn a # 1 hit on the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 in the United States.
lr44 is the आईईसी नामांकन for an alkaline 1.5 वोल्ट button कोशिका, commonly प्रयुक्त in छोटी LED flashlights, डिजिटल thermometers, calculators, calipers, watches, घड़ियाँ, toys and लेज़र pointers.
lr44 alkaline कोशिका
the बैटरी nomenclature is defined by the International विद्युततकनीकी आयोग ( IEC ) in its 60086-3 मानक ( Primary बैटरी, part 3 देखें बैटरी ).
The अक्षर L indicates the electrochemical system used ; a जस्ता ऋणात्मक electrode, manganese डाइऑक्साइड depolarizer और positive electrode, और an क्षारीय electrolyte.
R44 indicates a गोलाकार cell 11.4±0.2 mm व्यास and 5.2±0.2 mm ऊँचाई as defined by the आईईसी standard 60086.
Manufacturers have उनके अपना part numbers लिये IEC type lr44 batteries including:
LR44, lr44g, lr44gd, LR44H
lr1154, L1154, L1154C, L1154F, l1154g, l1154h
6135-99-792-8475 ( nsn )
1166A
ag13, A613, ag14, ag-14, G13A, g13-a
157, 303, 357
a76, GDA76, GP76A, GPA7, gpa75, gpa76, gps76A,
1128MP, 208-904, A-76, ca18, CA19, CR44, D76A, KA, ka76, ms76h, px76a, PX675A, RPX675, RW82, SB-F9, v13ga
4.5-volt, D, c, aa, aaa, aaaa, A23, 9-volt, CR2032 और LR44 batteries
अन्य प्रकार of batteries are or यहूद made in the R44 आकार.
formerly, पारा batteries यहूद made as बटन कोशिकाएं ( types MR44 और nr44 ).
zinc-air बैटरी type pr44 require एयर to work.
silver-oxide batteries प्रकार sr44 may provide extra capacity compared to lr44 types लकिन have slightly different वोल्टेज विशेषताएँ.
प्रदर्शन of a device meant to use a silver-oxide battery may be degraded with substitution of LR44 प्रकार.
Manufacturer 's संख्याएँ लिये चांदी ऑक्साइड r44 आकार कोशिकाएं include:
SR44/SR44W/SR44SW
6135-99-651-3240 ( NSN )
SR1154
1107SO
1131sop
sg13
s76
EPX76 ( Energizer )
303/357 ( d357h )
hurricane Katrina was the deadliest और most destructive Atlantic hurricane of the 2005 अटलांटिक hurricane season.
it was the costliest प्राकृतिक disaster, as खूब as एक of the पाँच deadliest hurricanes, in the history of the संयुक्त राज्य.
among recorded अटलांटिक hurricanes, it थी the sixth strongest overall.
at तनिक 1,833 लोगों died in the hurricane और subsequent floods, बनाना it the deadliest u.S. hurricane since the 1928 okeechobee hurricane ; total प्रॉपर्टी क्षति थी estimated at $ 81 billion ( 2005 usd ), nearly ट्रिपल the damage brought by Hurricane एंड्रयू in 1992.
hurricane कैटरीना formed over the Bahamas on August 23, 2005 and crossed दक्षिणी फ्लोरिडा as a मॉडरेट Category 1 hurricane, causing कुछ deaths and बाढ़ there before strengthening rapidly in the Gulf of मैक्सिको.
the hurricane strengthened to a Category 5 hurricane over the गरम Gulf water, but weakened before making इसके दूसरी landfall as a Category 3 hurricane on the morning of सोमवार, अगस्त 29 in southeast Louisiana.
it caused severe विनाश साथ the गल्फ coast इससे central फ्लोरिडा to Texas, much of it due to the तूफ़ान surge.
the सबसे significant number of मौतों occurred in नई Orleans, louisiana, जिससे flooded as the तटबन्ध system catastrophically विफल, in many cases hours after the storm था moved अंतर्देशीय.
आखिरकार 80 % of the city and large tracts of neighboring parishes became flooded, and the floodwaters lingered लिये सप्ताह.
however, the worst property क्षति occurred in coastal क्षेत्रों, such as all मिसिसिपी beachfront कस्बों, which were flooded over 90 % in hours, as boats और casino barges rammed इमारतें, pushing गाड़ियाँ and घरों inland, with waters reaching 6–12 मील ( 10–19 km ) from the beach.
the hurricane surge सुरक्षा failures in नई Orleans हैं माना the worst सिविल engineering विपत्ति in u.S. history and prompted a मुकदमा विरूद्ध the u.S. Army corps of Engineers ( USACE ), the designers और बिल्डर of the levee system as mandated by the Flood कंट्रोल अधिनियम of 1965.
Responsibility for the failures and बाढ़ थी रखी squarely on the Army Corps in January 2008 by न्यायधीश stanwood Duval, U.S. District Court, but the federal agency could नहीं be आयोजित financially liable due to sovereign immunity in the Flood कंट्रोल Act of 1928.
There थी भी an investigation of the responses from federal, state and लोकल सरकारें, resulting in the resignation of संघीय Emergency प्रबन्धन Agency ( FEMA ) director Michael D. भूरा, और of New Orleans पुलिस Department ( NOPD ) अधीक्षक एडी कम्पास.
Several एजेंसियों सहित the संयुक्त States coast Guard ( uscg ), नेशनल Hurricane बीच ( nhc ), and नेशनल Weather Service ( nws ) यहूद commended for उनके क्रियाएँ.
They provided accurate hurricane weather tracking forecasts with sufficient सीसे time.
भी the सबसे insistent appeals from नेशनल, राज्य और local पब्लिक officials to निवासियों to evacuate before the तूफ़ान किया not warn that the levees could breach and fail.
U.S. कर्ज़ from 1940 to 2011.
रेड lines indicate the `` कर्ज़ आयोजित by the पब्लिक '' और ब्लैक लाइनों indicate the कुल नेशनल कर्ज़ or gross public debt.
the अंतर is the `` intragovernmental debt, '' जिससे includes दायित्वों to government programs such as Social Security.
Stated as a सूत्र, National कर्ज़ = Debt आयोजित by the Public + Intragovernmental Debt.
the second panel shows the दो कर्ज़ आंकड़े as a percentage of U.S. GDP ( dollar value of U.S. आर्थिक production for कि साल ).
The शीर्ष फलक is deflated so प्रत्येक साल is in 2010 dollars.
the संयुक्त States पब्लिक debt is the धन borrowed by the federal सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य through the issuing of securities by the Treasury and other federal सरकारी एजेंसियों.
US पब्लिक debt consists of दो घटकs:
Debt held by the पब्लिक शामिल Treasury securities आयोजित by निवेशकों outside the संघीय government, सहित कि held by individuals, corporations, the Federal Reserve प्रणाली and foreign, state and local सरकारें.
Debt आयोजित by सरकारी accounts or intragovernmental debt शामिल non-marketable राजकोष securities held in खाते administered by the संघीय सरकारी कि are owed to program beneficiaries, ऐसे as the Social Security विश्वास Fund.
Debt held by government accounts represents the संचयी surpluses, सहित ब्याज आय, of ये खाते that have महरूम invested in राजकोष securities.
Public कर्ज़ increases or decreases as a परिणाम of the annual एकीकृत बजट deficit or surplus.
The संघीय सरकारी budget deficit or surplus is the difference between government receipts and बिता, ignoring intra-governmental transfers.
however, कुछ spending that is excluded from the deficit ( supplemental appropriations ) also adds to the debt.
historically, the US पब्लिक debt as a share of जीडीपी increased दौरान wars और recessions, और subsequently declined.
लिये उदाहरण, कर्ज़ held by the पब्लिक as a share of GDP peaked just बाद संसार युद्ध II ( 113 % of जीडीपी in 1945 ), लकिन तब fell over the following 30 years.
In recent decades, however, विशाल बजट deficits और the resulting increases in कर्ज़ have led to concern परिचय the long-term sustainability of the संघीय government 's fiscal policies.
On 2 अप्रैल 2013, कर्ज़ held by the पब्लिक थी लगभग $ 11.959 trillion or about 75 % of जीडीपी.
intragovernmental holdings stood at $ 4.846 trillion, giving a संयुक्त कुल public कर्ज़ of $ 16.805 trillion.
As of January 2013, $ 5.6 trillion or लगभग 47 % of the कर्ज़ held by the public was owned by विदेशी investors, the largest of which were the लोगों 's Republic of China और Japan at बस over $ 1.1 trillion each.
in बास्केट, an assist is attributed to a player जो गुजरता the बॉल to a teammate in a way कि leads to a score by फ़ील्ड goal, अर्थ that he or she थी `` assisting '' in the basket.
वहीँ is some judgment शामिल in deciding whether a passer चाहिए be credited साथ an assist.
An assist can be scored for the passer even if the खिलाड़ी जो receives the pass makes a बास्केट after ड्रिब्लिंग the बॉल.
however, the असली definition of an assist किया नहीं शामिल ऐसे situations, so the तुलना of assist आंकडे across eras is a complex matter.
Only the pass directly before the स्कोर may be गिने as an assist, so no more than एक assist can be अंकित per फ़ील्ड लक्ष्य ( unlike in other खेल, ऐसे as बर्फ hockey ).
A pass कि लीड to a शूटिंग बेईमानी and scoring by free throws करता नहीं count as an assist in the एनबीए, but करता in fiba खेल ( only एक assist is awarded प्रति नियत of फ़्री throws in जिससे at least एक free throw is made ).
Point guards tend to get the सबसे assists प्रति game ( apg ), as their भूमिका is primarily कि of a passer और ballhandler.
Centers tend to मिलेंगी कम assists, but centers साथ शुभ floor presence और अदालत दृष्टि can dominate a team by assisting.
होने अंदर the कुंजी, the center प्रायः रै the बेहतरीन कोण and the बेहतरीन स्थिति लिये `` बर्तन '' and other छोटी passes in the स्कोरिंग क्षेत्रफल.
Center Wilt चेम्बरलेन led the NBA in assists in 1968.
a strong center साथ inside-scoring prowess, such as पूर्व NBA बीच Hakeem olajuwon, can भी be an प्रभावी assistor क्युकी the defense 's double-teaming tends to खोलें up offense in the form of निशानेबाज.
The NBA single-game assist record is 30, आयोजित by स्कॉट Skiles of the Orlando जादू against the Denver टेंडर्स, on दिसम्बर 30, 1990.
the NBA record for सबसे career assists is held by John Stockton with 15,806.
the mill or mille ( ) ( sometimes mil in the UK, जब discussing प्रॉपर्टी taxes in the संयुक्त States, or previously in Cyprus और माल्टा ) is a now-abstract ईकाई of currency प्रयुक्त sometimes in accounting.
in the United राज्य, it is a notional ईकाई समतुल्य to of a संयुक्त States dollar ( a दसवाँ of a cent ).
in the United किंगडम it was प्रस्तावित during the दशकों of discussion on the decimalization of the pound as a प्रभाग of the pound sterling.
Several अन्य currencies used the mill, such as the maltese lira.
the term आता इससे the लैटिन `` millesimum '', अर्थ `` thousandth part ''.
The Greco-Persian Wars ( also often called the पारसी Wars ) यहूद a series of विरोध between the Achaemenid Empire of Persia और city-states of the Hellenic world that started in 499 bc और lasted until 449 BC.
the collision between the fractious राजनैतिक world of the यूनानियों और the enormous साम्राज्य of the Persians began when सायरस the ग्रेट conquered ionia in 547 bc.
Struggling to नियम the independent-minded cities of Ionia, the फारसियों नियुक्त tyrants to नियम प्रत्येक of them.
This would prove to be the सोर्स of much trouble for the Greeks और फारसियों alike.
In 499 bc, the तब tyrant of Miletus, Aristagoras, embarked on an expedition to conquer the द्वीप of naxos, साथ पारसी support ; however, the expedition was a debacle and, pre-empting उसके dismissal, aristagoras incited सब of हैलेनिक एशिया Minor into विद्रोह against the फारसियों.
This was the beginning of the आयोनियन Revolt, which होता पिछला जबतक 493 bc, progressively drawing अधिक regions of एशिया नाबालिग into the conflict.
aristagoras secured military support from एथेंस and Eretria, और in 498 BC these forces helped to capture और burn the Persian regional पूंजी of Sardis.
The Persian किंग Darius the ग्रेट vowed to have revenge on एथेंस and eretria for इस act.
The revolt जारी, with the two sides effectively stalemated throughout 497–495 BC.
in 494 bc, the Persians regrouped, और attacked the epicentre of the विद्रोह in Miletus.
at the बैटल of Lade, the ionians suffered a निर्णायक defeat, and the rebellion collapsed, साथ the फाइनल members being stamped आउट the following साल.
seeking to secure his साम्राज्य from further revolts and from the हस्तक्षेप of the mainland यूनानियों, दारा embarked on a scheme to conquer यूनानियों and to punish Athens and eretria लिये burning sardis.
the पहला Persian invasion of यूनानियों began in 492 BC, साथ the Persian general Mardonius conquering Thrace and macedon before अनेक mishaps मजबूर an early समाप्त to the अभियान.
in 490 bc a दूसरी फ़ोर्स was भेजा to Greece, this समय across the ईजियन समुद्र, under the कमांड of Datis और Artaphernes.
इस expedition subjugated the Cyclades, पहले besieging, capturing और razing Eretria.
however, जबकि en route to आक्रमण एथेंस, the Persian force was decisively defeated by the Athenians at the बैटल of Marathon, समाप्ति पारसी प्रयत्न लिये the समय होने.
Darius तब began to plan to पूरा the conquest of Greece, but died in 486 BC और responsibility for the conquest passed to his son xerxes I.
In 480 BC, xerxes personally led the second Persian invasion of यूनानियों with एक of the largest ancient armies ever समवेत.
Victory over the 'Allied ' Greek राज्य ( led by Sparta and Athens ) at the Battle of thermopylae allowed the फारसियों to torch एथेंस और overrun most of Greece.
However, while seeking to destroy the संयुक्त यूनानी बेड़े, the फारसियों suffered a कठोर शिकस्त at the Battle of salamis.
the following year, the confederated यूनानियों went on the अप्रिय, defeating the पारसी फौज at the बैटल of Plataea, and ending the invasion of यूनानियों.
the अलाइड Greeks followed up उनके कामयाबी by destroying the rest of the पारसी fleet at the बैटल of Mycale, पहले expelling Persian garrisons from Sestos ( 479 bc ) और byzantium ( 478 bc ).
The क्रियाएँ of the general pausanias at the घेरा of Byzantium alienated अनेक of the यूनानी states इससे the spartans, and the anti-Persian गठबंधन थी therefore reconstituted around athenian नेतृत्व, as the so-called delian League.
The delian लीग continued to अभियान against फारस for the next तीन decades, शुरूआत साथ the expulsion of the बाकी Persian garrisons इससे यूरोपीय.
At the Battle of the Eurymedon in 466 bc, the लीग जीती a दोगुना victory कि आखिरकार secured freedom for the cities of Ionia.
However, the लीग 's भागीदारी in an Egyptian revolt ( from 460–454 BC ) resulted in a विनाशकारी defeat, and further campaigning थी suspended.
A fleet was भेजा to Cyprus in 451 bc, लकिन हासिल little, and जब it withdrew the Greco-Persian युद्धों drew to a quiet समाप्त.
कुछ ऐतिहासिक स्त्रोत suggest the समाप्त of hostilities was marked by a सलाम treaty between एथेंस और Persia, the so-called सलाम of callias.
hooverville near पोर्टलैंड, Oregon
A `` hooverville '' is the popular नाम for shanty towns built by बेघर लोगों during the Great Depression.
They यहूद named बाद हर्बर्ट हूवर, जो थी अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States during the onset of the अवसाद and widely blamed लिये it.
the पद was coined by Charles Michelson, publicity chief of the लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल Committee.
मैथ्यू माइकल Hasselbeck ( born September 25, 1975 ) is an American football क्वार्टरबैक लिये the इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League ( एनएफएल ).
He थी drafted in the sixth round of the 1998 एनएफएल Draft by the Green खाड़ी Packers.
After a ऋतु on the practice स्क्वाड और दो seasons backing up ब्रेट favre, he थी traded to the सिएटल Seahawks in 2001.
Hasselbeck gained the starting भूमिका in 2003, and led Seattle to छह playoff appearances and a Super Bowl appearance ; he was selected to three प्रो प्याले and an All-Pro selection.
Following ten seasons साथ the Seahawks, hasselbeck joined the Tennessee टाइटन्स in 2011.
hasselbeck तब हस्ताक्षरित a contract साथ the इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस in 2013 less than 24 hours बाद being released by the टेनेसी टाइटन्स.
आईसीटी is inevitably related to the computer network.
Information और संचार प्रौद्योगिकी or ( ICT ), is often प्रयुक्त as an विस्तारित synonym for सूचना प्रौद्योगिकी ( IT ), but is a more विशिष्ट term that तनावों the भूमिका of unified संचार और the integration of telecommunications ( telephone lines and बेतार signals ), computers as well as necessary enterprise software, middleware, storage, और audio-visual प्रणालियों, which enable users to access, स्टोर, transmit, and हेरफेर सूचना.
the phrase आईसीटी था महरूम used by अकादमिक शोधकर्ताओं चूंकि the 1980s, लकिन it became popular after it थी used in a रपट to the UK government by Dennis Stevenson in 1997 and in the संशोधित नेशनल Curriculum for England, वेल्स और उत्तरी Ireland in 2000.
the पद ICT is अभी also प्रयुक्त to refer to the convergence of audio-visual और टेलीफोन networks with computer networks through a single cabling or link प्रणाली.
There हैं विशाल आर्थिक incentives ( विशाल लागत savings due to विलोपन of the टेलीफोन संजाल ) to विलय the audio-visual, building प्रबन्धन और टेलीफोन network with the computer network प्रणाली using a single unified system of cabling, सिग्नल distribution और management.
the पद Infocommunications is प्रयुक्त in some cases as a shorter रूप of information और communication ( s ) technology.
In फैक्ट infocommunications is the expansion of दूरसंचार साथ information प्रसंस्करण and content हैंडलिंग functions on a common डिजिटल technology base.
For a तुलना of these और other शर्तें, see.
लिये आईसीटी विकास Index around the संसार, see.
This is a list of characters from George लोपेज़.
a schematic presentation of the प्लम खीर model of the atom ; in thomson 's गणितीय मॉडल the `` corpuscles '' ( or modern electrons ) were arranged non-randomly, in rotating बजती
the वर्तमान मॉडल of the sub-atomic ढांचा involves a dense nucleus surrounded by a probabilistic `` cloud '' of electrons
The प्लम pudding मॉडल of the अणु by J. J. Thomson, who खोजा the electron in 1897, थी प्रस्तावित in 1904 before the डिस्कवरी of the atomic केंद्रक in order to add the इलेक्ट्रॉन to the परमाणु model.
in this model, the atom is रचित of electrons ( जिससे thomson still called `` corpuscles '', हालांकि G. J. Stoney था proposed that atoms of विद्युत be पुकारा electrons in 1894 ) surrounded by a सूप of धनात्मक चार्ज to balance the electrons ' ऋणात्मक charges, जैसे negatively charged `` plums `` surrounded by positively चार्ज `` खीर ``.
the electrons ( as we know them today ) were thought to be positioned throughout the atom, but साथ अनेक structures possible लिये positioning multiple electrons, विशेषकर rotating बजती of electrons ( देखिए below ).
Instead of a soup, the atom थी also sometimes said to have had a `` बादल '' of positive charge.
साथ इस मॉडल, thomson abandoned उसके earlier `` nebular atom '' परिकल्पना in which the atom was रचित of immaterial vortices.
Now, at तनिक part of the atom was to be रचित of Thomson 's particulate negative corpuscles, हालांकि the बाकी of the positively चार्ज part of the अणु remained somewhat nebulous and ill-defined.
The 1904 Thomson model was disproved by the 1909 सुनहरा foil प्रयोग of Hans geiger और अर्नेस्ट Marsden.
This was interpreted by अर्नेस्ट Rutherford in 1911
to imply a very small केंद्रक of the अणु containing a very ऊँची positive charge ( in the case of सुनहरा, पर्याप्त to balance परिचय 100 electrons ), thus अग्रणी to the Rutherford मॉडल of the अणु.
हालांकि सुनहरा रै an atomic क्रमांक of 79, तत्काल बाद रदरफोर्ड 's paper appeared in 1911 antonius Van den broek बना the intuitive सुझाव that atomic क्रमांक is नाभिकीय charge.
the पदार्थ जरूरी प्रयोग to decide.
हेनरी Moseley 's कार्य showed experimentally in 1913 ( देखिए Moseley 's law ) कि the प्रभावी नाभिकीय चार्ज थी very बंद to the atomic क्रमांक ( moseley found तभी one ईकाई difference ), और moseley referenced तभी the papers of Van den Broek और Rutherford.
This work culminated in the solar-system-like ( लकिन quantum-limited ) bohr मॉडल of the atom in the वही साल, in which a nucleus containing an atomic number of धनात्मक charge is घिरी by an बराबर क्रमांक of electrons in कक्षीय शेल.
Bohr था भी inspired Moseley 's work.
Thomson 's model थी compared ( though नहीं by thomson ) to a अंग्रेजों मिठाई पुकारा प्लम pudding, hence the name.
Thomson 's paper was published in the March 1904 edition of the Philosophical पत्रिका, the अग्रणी British विज्ञान journal of the दिन.
In Thomson 's view :... the अणु of the तत्व consist of a number of negatively electrified corpuscles enclosed in a गोला of uniform धनात्मक विद्युतीकरण,...
in इस model, the electrons यहूद फ़्री to rotate भीतर the blob or बादल of positive पदार्थ.
ये orbits यहूद stabilized in the model by the फैक्ट that when an electron स्थानांतरित farther from the बीच of the धनात्मक cloud, it लगा a larger जाल positive inward फ़ोर्स, because वहीँ थी अधिक material of विपरीत चार्ज, अंदर its orbit ( देखिए Gauss 's law ).
in thomson 's मॉडल, electrons यहूद फ़्री to घूर्णन in बजती which were further stabilized by interactions between the electrons, और spectra were to be accounted for by energy differences of different रिंग orbits.
thomson attempted to make उसके model account for कुछ of the प्रमुख spectral lines ज्ञात for some तत्व, but थी नहीं notably successful at इस.
Still, thomson 's model ( साथ with a समान saturnian ring model लिये atomic electrons, also put आगे in 1904 by nagaoka बाद जेम्स क्लर्क Maxwell 's model of शनि 's rings ), यहूद earlier harbingers of the later और अधिक कामयाब solar-system-like Bohr model of the atom.
Typical strip of bacon.
बेकन is a cured meat prepared from a सुअर.
It is पहला cured using विशाल quantities of salt, either in a brine or in a dry packing ; the परिणाम is भैस बेकन ( also ज्ञात as ग्रीन बेकन ).
भैस बेकन may then be further सूखी for weeks or months in ठंडा air, or it may be boiled or स्मोक्ड.
भैस and dried बेकन is typically cooked पहले खाने.
boiled bacon is तैयार to खा, as is कुछ smoked bacon, but may be पकाया further before eating.
बेकन is prepared from several different cuts of मांस.
it is usually बना from side और वापस कटौती of pork, मगर in the संयुक्त राज्य, जहाँ it is almost always prepared from pork पेट ( typically referred to as `` streaky '', `` वसीय '', or `` अमरीकी style '' outside of the us and कनाडा ).
the पक्ष काटें रै more मांस and less fat than the belly.
बेकन may be prepared इससे either of दो पृथक वापस cuts : fatback, which is almost pure मोटे, and पोर्क loin, जिससे is very lean.
Bacon-cured pork loin is ज्ञात as वापस bacon.
Uncooked पोर्क belly बेकन strips.
बेकन may be eaten smoked, boiled, fried, baked, or grilled, or used as a minor ingredient to स्वाद बर्तन.
Bacon is also प्रयुक्त लिये barding and larding roasts, especially खेल, e.g. venison, pheasant.
The word is derived इससे the Old High German bacho, अर्थ `` buttock '', `` ham '' or `` पक्ष of bacon '', और cognate with the बूढ़ा French bacon.
In continental यूरोपीय, इस part of the pig is usually नहीं स्मोक्ड like बेकन is in the United States ; it is प्रयुक्त primarily in घन ( lardons ) as a कुकिंग ingredient, valued both as a source of fat and लिये इसके स्वाद.
in इटली, this is पुकारा pancetta और is प्रायः cooked in छोटी cubes or परोसा uncooked and thinly sliced as भाग of an antipasto.
Meat from अन्य animals, such as बीफ, lamb, chicken, बकरी, or turkey, may also be cut, cured, or वरना prepared to resemble बेकन, and may भी be referred to as `` bacon ''.
Such उपयोग is common in क्षेत्रों with significant यहूदी and मुस्लिम populations.
The यूएसडीए defines bacon as `` the cured belly of a स्वाइन carcass '' ; other cuts and characteristics जरूर be separately qualified ( e.g., `` smoked पोर्क loin बेकन '' ).
लिये safety, बेकन must be treated to prevent trichinosis, caused by trichinella, a parasitic roundworm जिससे can be destroyed by heating, जमने, drying, or धूम्रपान.
Bacon is distinguished इससे नमक पोर्क and ham by differences in the brine ( or dry पैकिंग ).
Bacon brine रै added curing ingredients, सबसे notably sodium nitrite, और occasionally sodium नाइट्रेट or potassium nitrate ( साल्टपीटर ) ; सोडियम ascorbate or erythorbate हैं added to accelerate curing and stabilize रंग.
flavorings ऐसे as brown sugar or मेपल हैं used for some products.
if used, sodium polyphosphates are added to improve sliceability और reduce spattering when the bacon is पण fried.
आज, a brine लिये ham, but नहीं bacon, शामिल a विशाल amount of sugar.
Historically, `` ham '' and `` बेकन '' referred to अलग cuts of मांस कि यहूद brined or packed identically, प्रायः together in the same barrel.
The Employee Retirement आय Security अधिनियम of 1974 ( erisa ) (, संहिताबद्ध in भाग at ) is a federal law जिससे establishes minimum मानकों for pension plans in private industry and provides लिये extensive rules on the federal income कर प्रभाव of ट्रांजेक्शन संबद्ध with employee benefit plans.
ERISA was enacted to protect the रूचि of employee लाभ plan भागीदार और उनके beneficiaries by:
requiring the disclosure of financial और other information concerning the plan to beneficiaries ;
establishing standards of conduct लिये योजना fiduciaries ;
providing लिये appropriate remedies और access to the संघीय न्यायालयों.
erisa is sometimes used to refer to the full body of laws regulating employee benefit plans, which are found मुख्यतः in the Internal Revenue Code and erisa itself.
जिम्मेदारी लिये the interpretation और enforcement of ERISA is विभाजित among the Department of मजदूर, the Department of the राजकोष ( विशेषकर the Internal Revenue Service ), and the पेंशन लाभ Guaranty Corporation.
Illegal immigration to the संयुक्त राज्य is the अधिनियम of विदेशी nationals entering the संयुक्त States, without सरकारी permission और in उल्लंघन of संयुक्त States nationality law, or रहकर beyond the termination date of a visa, भी in violation of the law.
A चेतावनी sign at the international boundary between the United राज्य and Canada in पाइंट रॉबर्ट्स, वॉशिंगटन.
a much अलग दृष्टिकोण at the U.S.-Mexico किनारा near El Paso, Texas
the undocumented immigrant population of the United States in 2008 was estimated by the बीच for Immigration अध्ययन to be about 11 million people, down इससे 12.5 लाख लोगों in 2007.
अन्य estimates दायरा from 7 to 20 लाख.
According to a 2005 pew हिस्पैनिक बीच report, 56 % of undocumented आप्रवासियों यहूद from मैक्सिको ; 22 % were from अन्य Latin American countries ; 13 % were इससे एशिया ; 6 % यहूद इससे Europe and कनाडा ; और 3 % यहूद from अफ़्रीकी और the rest of the संसार.
Alvin स्वतंत्र स्कूल District is a school district आधारित in एल्विन, Texas ( यूएसए ).
एल्विन isd is a large suburban school district दक्षिण of Houston in the communities of Alvin, manvel, Pearland, hillcrest, rosharon, आयोवा Colony, Liverpool, and Amsterdam.
aisd serves Pearland city 's rapidly growing पश्चिमी portion of the नगर सहित the new large master-planned समुदायों of छाया Creek Ranch, South कांटा, and Southern Trails.
एल्विन isd covers of land.
in इंसान anatomy, the ulnar nerve is a nerve जिससे रनों near the ulna bone.
The ulnar collateral स्नायु of elbow संयुक्त is in संबंध साथ the ulnar nerve.
The nerve is the largest unprotected nerve in the इंसान body ( अर्थ unprotected by मांसपेशी or अस्थि ), so चोट is आम.
This तंत्रिका is directly कनेक्ट to the छोटी उंगली, and the adjacent हाफ of the रिंग उंगली, supplying the palmar side of these fingers, including both सामने and back of the नुस्ख़े, शायद as दूर back as the fingernail beds.
एक method of injuring the nerve is to स्ट्राइक the medial epicondyle of the humerus from posteriorly, or inferiorly साथ the elbow flexed.
the ulnar nerve is trapped between the bone and the overlying स्किन at this point.
इस is commonly referred to as bumping एक 's `` funny अस्थि ''.
This नाम is विचार to be a pun, based on the ध्वनि resemblance between the नाम of the अस्थि of the अपर भुजा, the `` humerus `` and the शब्द `` humorous ``.
alternatively, according to the ऑक्सफोर्ड अंग्रेज़ी शब्दकोष it may refer to `` the peculiar सनसनी experienced when it is struck ''.
हॉग्वार्ट्स स्कूल of चुड़ैल और Wizardry, shortened हॉग्वार्ट्स, is a fictional British स्कूल of magic लिये students aged ग्यारह to eighteen, और is the प्राथमिक setting लिये the first six किताबे in j.K. Rowling 's Harry Potter series.
Rowling has suggested कि वो may have inadvertently taken the name from the hogwort plant ( Croton capitatus ), which वो had देखी at Kew gardens कुछ समय पहले writing the श्रेणी, although the names `` The हॉग्वार्ट्स '' और `` Hoggwart '' appear in the 1954 Nigel Molesworth book How To be topp by geoffrey Willans.
Hogwarts school थी voted as the 36th बेहतरीन स्कॉटिश शैक्षणिक स्थापना in a 2008 ऑनलाइन ranking, outranking Edinburgh 's loretto स्कूल.
According to a director of the Independent स्कूलों संजाल rankings, it was added to the schools लिस्टिंग `` लिये fun '' and was then voted on.
the U.S. subprime बंधक संकट थी a नियत of events and conditions कि led to a financial संकट and subsequent recession कि began in 2008.
it was characterized by a rise in subprime mortgage delinquencies और foreclosures, and the resulting decline of प्रतिभूति backed by कहा mortgages.
अनेक major वित्तीय institutions collapsed in सितंबर 2008, साथ significant disruption in the flow of क्रेडिट to व्यवसायों and उपभोक्ता and the onset of a severe वैश्विक recession.
There were many causes of the संकट, with टीकाकारों assigning अलग levels of दोष to वित्तीय संस्थानों, regulators, क्रेडिट एजेंसियों, government housing नीतियों, and उपभोक्ता, among others.
a proximate cause was the वृद्धि in subprime lending.
The percentage of lower-quality subprime mortgages originated दौरान a दिए साल rose इससे the historical 8 % or lower range to लगभग 20 % इससे 2004 to 2006, with much higher ratios in कुछ parts of the u.s.
a high प्रतिशत of these subprime mortgages, over 90 % in 2006 for example, were adjustable-rate mortgages.
These दो changes यहूद भाग of a broader trend of lowered lending standards and higher-risk mortgage products.
Further, U.S. households had become increasingly indebted, साथ the ratio of कर्ज़ to डिस्पोजेबल निजी income rising इससे 77 % in 1990 to 127 % at the end of 2007, much of this increase mortgage-related.
When u.S. home prices declined steeply बाद peaking in mid-2006, borrowers ' ability to refinance their loans became अधिक difficult.
as adjustable-rate mortgages began to reset at उच्चतर ब्याज दरों ( causing उच्चतर monthly भुगतान ), mortgage delinquencies soared.
Securities समर्थित with mortgages, including subprime mortgages, widely held by वित्तीय firms globally, lost most of their मान.
वैश्विक investors also drastically घटाया purchases of mortgage-backed debt and अन्य securities as भाग of a मनाही in the capacity और willingness of the private financial system to support lending.
चिंताएं about the soundness of u.S. credit and financial markets led to tightening क्रेडिट around the world and slowing आर्थिक growth in the U.S. और यूरोपीय.
the crisis था severe, long-lasting consequences लिये the u.S. and यूरोपीय economies.
the u.S. डाला a गहन recession, साथ nearly 9 million कार्य खोया दौरान 2008 and 2009, roughly 6 % of the workforce.
u.S. housing prices fell nearly 30 % on average और the U.S. भण्डार market गिरी approximately 50 % by early 2009.
as of जल्दी 2013, the U.S. stock मार्केट had बरामद to इसके pre-crisis शिखर लकिन housing कीमतें remained near their कम पाइंट और unemployment remained elevated.
आर्थिक विकास remained नीचे pre-crisis levels.
यूरोपीय भी continued to struggle साथ its अपना economic संकट.
Carl जंग in 1910.
Myers and briggs extrapolated उनके mbti सिद्धान्त from जंग 's कृतियाँ in his book मनोवैज्ञानिक प्रकार.
The myers-briggs प्रकार Indicator ( MBTI ) assessment is a psychometric questionnaire designed to माप psychological वरीयताओं in how people perceive the world और make निर्णय.
These preferences were extrapolated इससे the typological theories प्रस्तावित by Carl Gustav Jung और first published in उसके 1921 book Psychological Types ( English edition, 1923 ).
Jung theorized that वहीँ are चार प्रिंसिपल मनोवैज्ञानिक functions by which we experience the संसार : सनसनी, intuition, feeling, और सोच.
One of these four functions is प्रबल most of the time.
the original डेवलपर of the व्यक्तित्व inventory were katharine कुक briggs और her बेटी, इसाबेल Briggs Myers ; these two, having पढ़ाई extensively the work of जंग, turned उनके interest of human बर्ताव into a भक्ति of turning the theory of मनोवैज्ञानिक types to व्यावहारिक उपयोग.
They began creating the indicator दौरान World युद्ध II, believing कि a knowledge of personality वरीयताओं would help women जो were प्रवेश the औद्योगिक workforce लिये the first समय to पहचानो the sort of war-time jobs कि होता be `` सबसे comfortable and effective ''.
the initial प्रश्नावली grew into the Myers-Briggs प्रकार Indicator, जिससे थी first प्रकाशित in 1962.
the mbti focuses on normal populations and emphasizes the value of naturally occurring differences.
रॉबर्ट kaplan and Dennis saccuzzo believe `` the underlying assumption of the MBTI is that we सब have specific preferences in the way we construe our experiences, and ये preferences underlie हमारी interests, needs, मान, and प्रेरणा '' ( p. 499 ).
`` Judas '' is a सोंग by American recording artist Lady गागा, from her second studio एल्बम born इस Way ( 2011 ).
It थी released by interscope रिकॉर्ड on April 15, 2011, four दिनों ahead of its scheduled रिलीज.
लिखा and produced by महिला Gaga and redone, `` Judas '' is a dance और electro house सोंग about a woman in प्रेम साथ a man जो betrayed her.
It embodies the incidents कि have haunted Gaga in the पास्ट, and इसके कोर अर्थ refers to the ऋणात्मक parts of her life that she ca n't escape.
गागा has further explained कि the सोंग was भी परिचय honoring one 's inner darkness in अनुक्रम to bring oneself into the लाइट.
The artwork for the single थी designed by Gaga in microsoft Word.
In spite of a polarizing impact on अनेक religious groups, the song थी generally well received by आलोचकों, who likened the song to `` ख़राब Romance `` साथ some noting it चाहिए have महरूम the album 's सीसे single.
the सोंग has a similar sound to Gaga 's previous redone-produced tracks, including `` पोकर Face ``, `` LoveGame ``, `` Bad Romance '', और `` Alejandro ``.
It contains three distinct hooks and a house -influenced ब्रेक down.
गागा explained कि the लाइनों spoken during the breakdown talk about उसके as beyond मोचन, regarding the परंपरागत दृश्य of कया a स्त्री should be.
`` Judas '' initially had a strong sales opening, but थी less successful commercially in comparison to Gaga 's previous singles.
The song पहुँचे the शीर्ष ten of the चार्ट in most major music बाज़ार, and also पहुँचे the top of the charts in दक्षिण Korea.
A म्यूज़िक वीडियो लिये the सोंग was filmed in April 2011, co-directed by गागा and laurieann गिब्सन and co-starring नॉर्मन Reedus.
It रै a biblical storyline where reedus निभाई यहूदा Iscariot और Gaga निभाई Mary Magdalene.
the वीडियो portrays उन्हें as modern दिन missionaries going to जेरूसलम.
It शामिल the biblical स्टोरी of यहूदा betraying यीशु, और ended with Gaga as magdalene getting stoned to death.
Before इसके रिलीज, the Catholic League condemned गागा लिये the कथित use of religious imagery and उसके भूमिका in the वीडियो.
however, critics generally praised the video, नहीं finding कोई offensive content.
the वीडियो was nominated for दो पुरस्कार at the 2011 MTV Video म्यूज़िक Awards.
गागा रै performed `` यहूदा '' on a क्रमांक of television shows, सहित The ग्राहम Norton दिखाएँ, Saturday Night सजीव, शुभ Morning Americas `` Summer कॉन्सर्ट श्रेणी '', the फ्रेंच x फ़ैक्टर as खूब as on The एलेन degeneres दिखाएँ.
Marvin gaye ( April 2, 1939April 1, 1984 ), born मारविन pentz gay, Jr., was an American singer-songwriter और musician.
Gaye helped to आकार the sound of Motown Records in the 1960s साथ a string of hits सहित `` कैसा मीठी It is ( To Be Loved by तुम ) `` और `` I सुना it through the grapevine `` and duet recordings with Mary Wells and tammi Terrell, बाद कमाई the शीर्षक `` प्रिंस of motown '' and `` Prince of आत्मा ''.
दौरान the 1970s, Gaye अंकित the अवधारणा एल्बम What 's Going On and let 's Get it On और became among the first कलाकारों in Motown to ब्रेक away इससे the reins of इसके उत्पादन company.
Gaye 's बाद रिकार्डिंग बहकावे several R & b subgenres such as शांत storm और neo-soul.
Following a काल in Europe under a tax exile in the जल्दी 1980s, gaye released the 1982 ग्रैमी Award-winning hit `` यौन healing `` and the Midnight Love album.
Since उसके death in 1984, Gaye has been मरणोपरांत सम्मानित by अनेक संस्थानों, सहित the ग्रैमी Lifetime Achievement Award and the चट्टान and Roll Hall of कीर्ति.
the अकादमी Award for बेहतरीन Picture is एक of the अकादमी पुरस्कार of Merit प्रस्तुत annually by the Academy of गति Picture कला and sciences ( ampas ) to निर्माता working in the motion चित्र उद्योग and is the तभी श्रेणी in जिससे प्रत्येक member is योग्य to मनोनीत लिये.
Best Picture is माना the सबसे important of the Academy पुरस्कार, as it represents all the directing, एक्टिंग, म्यूज़िक composing, लिखने, editing and अन्य प्रयत्न put forth into a फिल्मी.
नतीजतन, Best Picture is the फाइनल award और the निष्कर्ष of the annual Academy Awards ceremony.
the ग्रैंड Staircase कालम at the dolby थिएटर in Los Angeles, जहाँ the Academy Awards ceremonies have been आयोजित चूंकि 2002, showcase every फिल्मी कि has जीती the बेहतरीन Picture title since the पुरस्कार 's inception 85 years ago.
भारी बरसात is an interactive नाटक action-adventure video खेल निर्मित by French developer quantic Dream exclusively लिये the PlayStation 3.
The खेल is written and directed by Quantic Dream 's संस्थापक और CEO David पिंजरा.
Heavy Rains स्टोरी is a नाटकीय thriller modelled after फिल्मी noir, featuring four protagonists शामिल साथ the रहस्य of the Origami कातिल, a serial killer who uses extended periods of rainfall to drown उसके पीड़ितों.
ethan मंगल is trying to save उसके बेटे इससे being the अगला victim, while investigative journalist Madison Paige, एफबीआई profiler Norman Jayden, and निजी जासूस स्कॉट शेल्बी हैं each trying to track bas clues to the origami कातिल 's identity.
the player interacts with the खेल by performing क्रियाएँ highlighted on स्क्रीन सम्बन्धित to motions on the controller, और in some cases, performing a श्रेणी of जल्दी time कार्यक्रम दौरान fast-paced action sequences.
The खिलाड़ी 's decisions and actions दौरान the game होगा affect the कथा.
The प्रमुख वर्ण can be killed, और निश्चित actions may lead to different scenes and endings.
a playable डेमो was released on 11 फ़रवरी 2010.
the demo थी released prior to this तिथि for लोगों who took भाग in a Four Day Challenge on 5 February 2010.
A patch to allow use of the PlayStation Move controller to खेल the खेल was released in September 2010.
भारी बरसात was critically acclaimed और has बेची over दो million नक़ल.
it जीती 2010 's Game of the Year from CNN and Gaming Union, और Best PS3 खेल of 2010 by GameSpy और IGN.
A परिवर्धित संस्करण of the खेल was released titled Heavy Rain Edition Modifiée exclusively in France, aimed towards a younger audience.
In 2010, the खेल was included in the किताब 1001 वीडियो खेल तुम जरूर Play Before तुम die.
Total superannuation industry liabilities : members निधि और reserves ( a $ millions ) since 1988.
सालाना कुल superannuation उद्योग एसेट विकास 1996-2005.
Superannuation in ऑस्ट्रेलिया refers to the इंतजाम which लोगों make in ऑस्ट्रेलिया to have funds उपलब्धियाँ लिये them in retirement.
in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, superannuation इंतजाम हैं government-supported और encouraged, and न्यूनतम प्रावधानों are अनिवार्य for कर्मचारी.
For उदाहरण, नियोक्ता हैं जरूरी to pay a proportion of an employee 's salaries और wages ( फिलहाल 9 % ) into a superannuation निधि, but लोगों हैं प्रोत्साहित to put aside अतिरिक्त निधि into superannuation.
the न्यूनतम obligation जरूरी by नियोक्ता is नियत to increase to 12 % gradually stepping annually इससे 2013 to 2020.
An individual can withdraw funds आउट of a superannuation fund when the person meets one of the शर्तें of रिलीज contained in Schedule 1 of the Superannuation उद्योग ( Supervision ) regulations 1994.
इस is a list of the वर्ण from the अमरीकी comedy-drama टेलीविज़न series The Game.
Electoral College map प्रर्दशित the परिणाम of the 2012 U.S. presidential चुनाव.
President Barack ओबामा ( D - il ) won the popular vote in 26 states and the District of Columbia ( denoted in blue ) to कैप्चर 332 electoral मत.
पूर्व Governor Mitt romney ( R - MA ) जीती the popular vote in 24 राज्य ( denoted in red ) to capture 206 चुनावी मत.
Cartogram representation of the चुनावी College vote लिये the 2012 election, साथ each वर्गाकार representing एक electoral vote.
The United States चुनावी कॉलेज is the संस्था that officially elects the अध्यक्ष and Vice अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य every four years.
the अध्यक्ष और Vice अध्यक्ष हैं not elected directly by the मतदाता.
बजाय, they हैं elected by `` निर्वाचक '' जो are चुनी by लोकप्रिय vote on a state-by-state basis.
Electors हैं apportioned to प्रत्येक राज्य and the ज़िला of कोलंबिया, लकिन नहीं to territorial possessions of the United राज्य, such as Puerto रीको और गुआम.
The क्रमांक of electors in each state is equal to the number of सदस्यों of कॉंग्रेस to which the राज्य is हकदार.
The Twenty-third Amendment has सदा resulted in the District of कोलंबिया having three electors.
There हैं 538 निर्वाचक, आधारित on वहीँ होने 435 representatives और 100 सीनेटरों, प्लस the तीन निर्वाचक इससे the ज़िला of Columbia.
Electors are pledged to particular अध्यक्षीय and vice presidential candidates, though unpledged निर्वाचक हैं संभावित.
in सब states, except maine and नेब्रास्का, electors are elected on a `` winner-take-all '' आधार.
That is, सब निर्वाचक pledged to the presidential candidate जो विन्स the सबसे votes in a राज्य become निर्वाचक for that state.
Maine and नेब्रास्का use the `` congressional ज़िला विधि '', selecting one elector भीतर each congressional district by लोकप्रिय vote और selecting the बाकी दो निर्वाचक by a राज्यव्यापी लोकप्रिय vote.
हालांकि no elector is जरूरी by संघीय विधि to सम्मान a प्रतिज्ञा, there have only been बहुत few अवसरों when an elector voted contrary to a प्रतिज्ञा.
the Twelfth amendment specifies how a President and वाइस अध्यक्ष हैं elected and requires प्रत्येक elector to डाल one vote for President और another vote लिये Vice President.
आलोचकों argue that the Electoral कॉलेज is inherently undemocratic और gives swing states अनुपातहीन influence in electing the President और वाइस अध्यक्ष.
The चुनावी कॉलेज देता a numeric advantage in the चुनाव of the president to the smaller राज्य, as the न्यूनतम क्रमांक of electors for the छोटी राज्य is three compared to one for the election of प्रतिनिधि.
On the अन्य हाथ, the winner-take-all method of voting favors the larger states.
a number of संवैधानिक amendments have महरूम प्रस्तावित seeking to alter the Electoral कॉलेज or replace it साथ a direct लोकप्रिय vote.
बराक Hussein Obama ii ( ; born अगस्त 4, 1961 ) is the 44th और वर्तमान अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, the first African अमरीकी to थाम the दफ्तर.
Born in Honolulu, हवाई, ओबामा is a graduate of कोलंबिया विश्वविद्यालयों and हार्वर्ड Law School, where he was president of the हार्वर्ड Law Review.
He थी a जातियाँ organizer in Chicago पहले earning his law उपाधि.
he worked as a civil rights attorney in Chicago और taught constitutional law at the University of शिकागो Law School from 1992 to 2004.
he served three terms representing the 13th ज़िला in the Illinois सीनेट इससे 1997 to 2004, कार्यशील unsuccessfully लिये the संयुक्त राज्य House of Representatives in 2000.
in 2004, Obama प्राप्त national attention दौरान उसके campaign to represent Illinois in the संयुक्त राज्य Senate with उसके victory in the कूच लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी प्राथमिक, उसके keynote address at the लोकतांत्रिक National सम्मेलन in July, and his election to the Senate in November.
he began उसके अध्यक्षीय अभियान in 2007, and in 2008, बाद a बंद primary अभियान विरूद्ध हिलेरी Rodham Clinton, he won sufficient delegates in the Democratic पार्टी primaries to receive the अध्यक्षीय नामांकन.
He तब defeated Republican nominee जॉन McCain in the general election, और थी inaugurated as president on January 20, 2009.
Nine महीने later, ओबामा थी नामित the 2009 Nobel सलाम पुरस्कार laureate.
he थी re-elected president in नवम्बर 2012, defeating रिपब्लिकन nominee mitt Romney, and was sworn in for a second term on January 20, 2013.
Early in उसके first पद in office, ओबामा हस्ताक्षरित into law आर्थिक stimulus legislation in जवाब to the ग्रेट Recession in the form of the अमरीकी रिकवरी and Reinvestment Act of 2009 और the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation अधिनियम of 2010.
Other major domestic initiatives in उसके प्रेसिडेंसी include the Patient Protection and Affordable परवाह Act, प्रायः referred to as `` Obamacare '' ; the Dodd–Frank वॉल गली Reform और उपभोक्ता Protection Act ; the Do n't पूछो, do n't Tell repeal Act of 2010 ; the Budget कंट्रोल अधिनियम of 2011 ; and the American करदाताओं Relief Act of 2012.
in May 2012, he became the पहला sitting U.S. अध्यक्ष to publicly support same-sex विवाह and in 2013 his प्रशासन filed briefs जिससे urged the Supreme अदालत to rule in favor of same-sex युगल in two high-profile cases.
in foreign policy, Obama ended u.S. military भागीदारी in the Iraq War, increased troop levels in अफगानिस्तान, signed the New प्रारंभ arms कंट्रोल सन्धि साथ Russia, ordered u.S. military भागीदारी in Libya, and ordered the सैन्य आपरेशन that resulted in the मौत of ओसामा बिन Laden.
The Honda cbr1100xx Super blackbird थी a होंडा motorcycle made इससे 1996 to 2007.
The bike was developed to challenge the Kawasaki निंजा zx-11 as the संसार 's तीव्रतम production मोटरसाइकिल, और होंडा succeeded साथ a शीर्ष speed of.
Two years later the title passed to the suzuki Hayabusa, जिससे पहुँचे.
the blackbird is named after the Lockheed sr-71, also a गति record होल्डर.
नमूना दृश्य of an electronic health रिकार्ड based on images
नमूना view of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक health रिकार्ड
An इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य रिकार्ड ( EHR ) is an evolving अवधारणा पारिभाषित as a व्यवस्थित संग्रहण of electronic स्वास्थ्य information about व्यक्तिगत patients or populations.
it is a रिकार्ड in digital स्वरूप कि is theoretically capable of होने shared across different स्वास्थ्य परवाह जमावट.
In कुछ मामले this sharing can occur by way of network-connected enterprise-wide information प्रणालियों और अन्य सूचना संजाल or exchanges.
ehrs may शामिल a range of आंकड़ा, सहित demographics, medical इतिहास, दवा and allergies, immunization औकात, प्रयोगशाला परीक्षण परिणाम, radiology images, vital signs, personal आंकड़े जैसे आयु और weight, and billing सूचना.
the Mariner up on the mast in a तूफ़ान.
एक of the wood-engraved illustrations by Gustave doré.
the rime of the Ancient Mariner ( originally the Rime of the Ancyent marinere ) is the longest major कविता by the अंग्रेज़ी poet सैमुएल टेलर कॉलरिज, लिखा in 1797–98 और published in 1798 in the first edition of गीतात्मक Ballads.
Modern editions use a बाद संशोधित version मुद्रित in 1817 that featured a gloss.
साथ साथ other कविताएं in गीतात्मक ballads, it थी a सिग्नल shift to आधुनिक poetry and the beginning of अंग्रेजों रोमांटिक literature.
A प्रॉक्सी auto-config ( pac ) संचिका defines how web browsers and other user एजेंटों can automatically चुनें the appropriate proxy server ( access method ) लिये fetching a दिए URL.
A pac संचिका contains a जावास्क्रिप्ट function “FindProxyForURL ( url, मेजबान ) ”.
इस फलन returns a string साथ एक or अधिक अभिगम विधि विशेषताएँ.
ये specifications कारण the user agent to उपयोग a particular प्रॉक्सी server or to connect सीधे.
Multiple specifications provide a fall-back जब a प्रॉक्सी fails to respond.
The ब्राउजर fetches इस PAC संचिका before requesting other URLs.
the url of the pac संचिका is either विन्यस्त manually or संकल्पित automatically by the Web Proxy autodiscovery प्रोटोकॉल.
zendaya Coleman ( born सितंबर 1, 1996 ), known mononymously as zendaya, is an American अभिनेत्री, singer and dancer.
she सितारों on the Disney Channel sitcom Shake it up as Rocky Blue.
वो has starred in दो films and played one of the सीसे भूमिकाएँ in the film frenemies as हैली Brandon.
वो voiced Fern in the pixie खोखला Games.
वो appeared in शुभ लक चार्ली as Rocky ब्लू और in a Good Luck चार्ली और शेक It up crossover शीर्षक Charlie शेक it up.
वो appeared on prankstars as herself in the एपीसोड `` चलना The Prank '' और on a.n.t. फार्म as sequoia Jones in the एपीसोड `` Creative सलाहकार. ''
Zendaya is भी a संगीतकार.
वो signed a सौदे साथ Hollywood Records on August 8, 2012 और प्रारंभ रिकॉर्डिंग songs for her debut एल्बम on August 12, 2012.
वो released a सिंगल from an स्वतंत्र label called `` swag it Out `` और another single with Bella Thorne पुकारा `` Watch Me, '' जिससे is featured on the Break it Down album.
on March 20, 2012, zendaya और बेला Thorne released an एल्बम साथ called Shake it Up : Live 2 Dance, प्रत्येक have their own सोंग on it, along साथ a mash-up of दोनो गीतों साथ as one.
On अगस्त 21, 2012, zendaya और Bella thorne released an EP called Shake it Up : बना in जापानी.
Zendaya रै a Christmas song called `` शेक सांता Shake, '' जिससे is on the डिज़्नी चैनल अवकाश प्लेलिस्ट CD, जिससे was released on अक्तूबर 2, 2012.
on March 5, 2013 the तीसरा Shake it up soundtrack was released, entitled i < 3 Dance ; on it, Zendaya has दो गीतों साथ बेला - `` Contagious प्रेम '' and `` इस Is my Dance Floor '' - as खूब as one solo song, `` ताल of my Drum. ''
इस is a सूची of एयरपोर्ट in Pennsylvania ( a U.S. state ), grouped by प्रकार and sorted by location.
it contains सब public-use and सैन्य एयरपोर्ट in the राज्य.
Some private-use and former airports may be included जहाँ notable, ऐसे as एयरपोर्ट कि were previously public-use, those साथ commercial enplanements अंकित by the FAA or airports आबंटित an IATA विमानक्षेत्र code.
आईओएस ( previously iPhone os ) is a मोबाईल ऑपरेटिंग system developed और वितरित by Apple inc. Originally released in 2007 लिये the iPhone and ipod टच platforms, it has been extended to support other Apple devices such as the iPad और Apple tv.
Unlike microsoft 's Windows फोन and google 's एंड्रॉइड, Apple does not अनुज्ञा iOS for संस्थापना on non-Apple हार्डवेयर.
, ठहराना 's app Store contained अधिक than 700,000 आईओएस अनुप्रयोग, which have collectively महरूम डाउनलोड more than 30 billion times.
it था a 21 % share of the smartphone मोबाईल operating प्रणाली units shipped in the fourth quarter of 2012, पीछे only Google 's Android.
In June 2012, it accounted लिये 65 % of मोबाईल वेब आंकड़ा खपत ( including use on दोनो the ipod टच and the ipad ).
At the हाफ of 2012, वहीँ यहूद 410 million डिवाइस activated.
according to the special media event आयोजित by Apple on सितंबर 12, 2012, 400 लाख devices have महरूम बेची through June 2012.
The user इंटरफ़ेस of आईओएस is आधारित on the concept of सीधा हेरफेर, using multi-touch इशारों.
इंटरफ़ेस control elements consist of sliders, switches, and buttons.
Interaction साथ the OS includes gestures ऐसे as swipe, tap, pinch, और reverse पिंच, सब of which have specific definitions within the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of the आईओएस ऑपरेटिंग system and its multi-touch interface.
आतंरिक accelerometers are प्रयुक्त by कुछ अनुप्रयोग to respond to shaking the यंत्र ( one आम result is the undo command ) or घूर्णन it in three dimensions ( one common result is switching from portrait to landscape विधि ).
आईओएस is derived इससे OS X, with which it साझा the Darwin न्यास.
iOS is Apple 's मोबाईल version of the os X ऑपरेटिंग system प्रयुक्त on Apple computers.
in iOS, there are four abstraction layers : the Core os layer, the Core सेवाएं layer, the मीडिया layer, and the Cocoa टच परत.
The current संस्करण of the ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली ( iOS 6.1.3 ) dedicates 1-1.5 gb of the यंत्र 's flash मेमोरी for the system partition, using roughly 800 mb of कि partition ( varying by मॉडल ) for आईओएस itself.
iOS currently runs on iPhone, iPad, ipod टच और ठहराना tv.
The Plymouth superbird is प्रसिद्ध लिये इसके extremely high पश्च wing.
1987 Audi Sport QuattroS1 साथ its large wings at pikes Peak
A spoiler is an ऑटोमोटिव aerodynamic यंत्र whose intended design function is to 'spoil ' unfavorable एयर movement across a body of a गाडी in motion, usually described as turbulence or drag.
विघ्न on the सामने of a गाडी are प्रायः पुकारा air dams, क्युकी in जोड to directing एयर flow वे भी reduce the amount of एयर flowing underneath the vehicle जिससे generally reduces aerodynamic लिफ्ट और खीचें.
Spoilers are प्रायः fitted to race और high-performance sports गाड़ियाँ, although वे have become आम on passenger vehicles as well.
Some विघ्न हैं added to cars primarily लिये styling उद्देश्य and have either little aerodynamic benefit or even मेक the वायुगतिकी worse.
Spoilers लिये cars हैं often incorrectly confused with, or the पद प्रयुक्त interchangeably with, wings.
Automotive विंग्स are डिवाइस जिनकी intended डिज़ाइन is to generate downforce as एयर passes around them, नहीं simply disrupt existing airflow patterns.
Mario, who serves as Nintendo 's शुभंकर, is a fictional अक्षर निर्मित by खेल designer Shigeru Miyamoto and voiced by चार्ल्स Martinet.
इस is a सूची of video खेल where the character मारियो plays a part, either as the protagonist, विपक्षी, supporting अक्षर, as भाग of an ensemble cast, as a cameo, or in a game within a खेल.
it करता not शामिल simple references to the character, ऐसे as the portraits of Mario found in the Legend of zelda : a Link to the पास्ट.
The year indicated is the year the खेल थी पहला released, सबसे commonly in Japan ; खेल were sometimes released years बाद in other regions of the world.
The सूची शामिल पोर्ट, remakes और compilations.
it does n't include any आभासी कंसोल re-releases.
`` Man of निरंतर विषाद '' ( भी known as `` I Am a man of Constant विषाद '' ) is a traditional American folk सोंग first recorded by लंड burnett, a partially अँधा fiddler from Kentucky.
the song थी originally अंकित by burnett as `` Farewell सोंग '' printed in a Richard Burnett songbook, circa 1913.
an early version was अंकित by Emry आर्थर in 1928 ( Vocalion vo 5208 ).
पब्लिक ब्याज in the सोंग was renewed after the रिलीज of the 2000 फिल्मी O bhai, Where आर्ट thou ?
, as it plays a सेंट्रल role in the film 's plot.
The सोंग was भी included in the फिल्मी 's highly कामयाब, multiple-platinum selling साउंडट्रैक.
Josephson जंक्शन array chip विकसित by the नेशनल Bureau of मानकों as a मानक volt
The वोल्ट ( symbol : v ) is the si derived ईकाई लिये electric potential ( वोल्टेज ), electric संभावित difference, and विद्युतवाहक force.
The volt is named in सम्मान of the Italian physicist alessandro Volta ( 1745–1827 ), जो invented the वोल्टायिक pile, संभवतः the first chemical battery.
A plaque commemorating the स्थान of the Sarajevo हत्या and steps of gavrilo Princip ( image taken in 1987, पहले कदम were removed in 1992 और plaque बदला इससे Cyrillic to लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट )
a प्लैक commemorating the location of the साराजेवो assassination ( चित्र लिया in 2009 )
on 28 जून 1914, archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of Austria, heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian सिंहासन, and उसके wife, Sophie, duchess of hohenberg, were shot dead in Sarajevo, by gavrilo Princip, एक of a समूह of छह Bosnian Serb हत्यारे coordinated by डेनियल Ilić.
the political objective of the हत्या थी to break off Austria-Hungary 's south-slav प्रांतों so वे could be संयुक्त into a वृहद सर्बिया or a यूगोस्लाविया.
the assassins ' motives यहूद consistent साथ the गति that बाद became ज्ञात as यंग बोस्निया.
Serbian military officers stood पीछे the आक्रमण.
at the शीर्ष of ये Serbian सैन्य षड्यंत्रकारियों was Chief of Serbian Military Intelligence dragutin dimitrijević, उसके righthand man प्रमुख Vojislav tankosić, और Masterspy rade Malobabić.
प्रमुख tankosić हथियारबंद the हत्यारे with bombs और pistols और trained उन्हें.
the हत्यारे यहूद दिए access to the same clandestine टनल of safe-houses और एजेंटों कि rade Malobabić used लिये the infiltration of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary.
The हत्यारे, the key members of the clandestine tunnel, and the कुंजी Serbian military conspirators who were स्टिल alive यहूद arrested, tried, convicted and punished.
those who यहूद गिरफ्तार in Bosnia यहूद tried in साराजेवो in October 1914.
the other conspirators were arrested और आजमाया पहले a सर्बियाई kangaroo court on the French-controlled salonika Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated गलत charges ; Serbia executed तीन of the शीर्ष सैन्य conspirators.
Much of कया is known परिचय the assassinations आता इससे ये दो ट्रायल और related records.
कार्यभार of जिम्मेदारी लिये the bombing and हत्याएं of 28 जून is अत्यधिक controversial क्युकी the attack led to the outbreak of संसार युद्ध i one माह बाद.
मिशन San Juan Capistrano was a स्पेनी मिशन in दक्षिणी California, स्तिथ in present-day San जुआन Capistrano.
it was founded on सब संतो ' Day नवम्बर 1, 1776, by स्पेनी catholics of the Franciscan अनुक्रम.
Named for Giovanni da capistrano, a 15th century theologian और `` योद्धा priest '' जो resided in the abruzzo प्रदेश of Italy, San जुआन Capistrano has the distinction of being घर to the oldest भवन in California still in उपयोग, a चैपल निर्मित in 1782.
ज्ञात alternately as `` Serra 's Chapel '' और `` पिता Serra 's Church, '' it is the only extant ढांचा जहाँ it has been प्रलेखित that the padre Junipero Serra celebrated द्रव्यमान.
One of the बेहतरीन known of the Alta California missions ( and एक of the few missions to have actually महरूम founded twice—others होने Mission सैन जिबरील Arcángel and Mission La Purísima Concepción ).
The साईट थी originally consecrated on October 30, 1775, by Father Fermín lasuén, but was quickly abandoned due to unrest among the indigenous जनसांख्यिकी in सैन डिएगो.
The कामयाबी of the उपनिवेश is evident in इसके historical रिकॉर्ड.
Prior to the arrival of the प्रचारकों, कुछ 550 natives यहूद scattered throughout the local area.
By 1790, the क्रमांक of परिवर्तित Christians had grown to 700, and बस छह years बाद nearly 1,000 `` neophytes `` ( recent converts ) lived in or around the मिशन compound.
1,649 baptisms यहूद conducted कि साल अलोन, आउट of the total 4,639 souls converted between 1776 and 1847.
More than 2,000 former inhabitants ( mostly Juaneño इंडियंस ) are दफ्न in unmarked graves in the मिशन 's कब्रिस्तान ( campo सेंटो ).
The remains of Father ( later Monsignor ) St. जॉन O'Sullivan, who recognized the प्रॉपर्टी 's ऐतिहासिक मान and working tirelessly to conserve और rebuild its structures, हैं buried at the entrance to the कब्रिस्तान on the वेस्ट side of the प्रॉपर्टी, और a statue उठाया in उसके honor stands at the सिर of the crypt.
The surviving chapel भी serves as the फाइनल resting प्लेस of three padres जो passed on while serving at the Mission : fathers जोस Barona, Vicente Fustér, और विसेंट पास्कुआल Oliva are सब entombed beneath the अभयारण्य floor.
the criolla or `` मिशन grape, '' थी पहला planted at San जुआन Capistrano in 1779 ; in 1783, the first wine produced in Alta कैलिफ़ोर्निया emerged from the मिशन 's वाइनरी.
The मिशन entered a long period of क्रमिक decline after secularization in 1833.
numerous प्रयत्न were बना over the सालो to restore the मिशन to its पूर्व glory, लकिन none met साथ ग्रेट success जबतक the arrival of पिता o'sullivan in 1910.
Restoration प्रयत्न continue, and `` सेरा 's चैपल '' is still used for religious सेवाएं.
About half-a-million visitors, including 80,000 school children, आइये to the Mission प्रत्येक साल.
और जबकि the ruins of `` the Great Stone गिरिजाघर '' ( which थी सब लकिन leveled by an 1812 भूकंप ) हैं a प्रसिद्ध architectural wonder, the मिशन is शायद बेहतरीन ज्ञात for the सालाना `` वापसी of the दात '' जिससे is traditionally observed every March 19 ( Saint जोसेफ 's Day ).
Mission San जुआन Capistrano has परोसा as a पसंदीदा subject लिये many notable artists, और रै been immortalized in literature and on फिल्मी numerous टाइम्स, perhaps अधिक than कोई other मिशन.
in 1984, a आधुनिक church complex was constructed just उत्तर and west of the Mission compound and is अभी ज्ञात as Mission Basilica San Juan capistrano.
आज, the मिशन यौगिक serves as a संग्रहालय, साथ the सेरा चैपल भीतर the यौगिक serving as a चैपल for the मिशन मोहल्ला.
Better Off Dead is a 1985 अमरीकी टीन रोमांटिक comedy film अभिनीत John Cusack and written और directed by जंगली Steve Holland.
it tells the स्टोरी of high स्कूल छात्र लेन Myer who is suicidal बाद his girlfriend ब्रेक up साथ him.
Mercedes-Benz superdome ( originally Louisiana superdome और commonly the Superdome ) is a sports और प्रदर्शनी stadium, located in the सेंट्रल कारोबार ज़िला of नई Orleans, louisiana, यूएसए.
योजनाएँ were drawn up in 1967, by the New ऑरलियन्स modernist architectural कड़ of कर्टिस and डेविस.
इसके steel frame कवर a expanse.
इसके dome is made of a Lamella multi-ringed फ़्रेम and has a व्यास of, making it the largest fixed domed structure in the world.
It is home to the NFL 's New ऑरलियन्स Saints, the NCAA 's प्रभाग i-a tulane ग्रीन Wave फ़ुटबॉल टोली ( the largest फ़ुटबॉल stadium in सम्मेलन यूएसए ), the राज्य फार्म bayou Classic, the r+l Carriers New Orleans कटोरी, the allstate शुगर Bowl और, प्रत्येक fourth year, the bcs National चैंपियनशिप Game.
Because of the आकार और स्थान in one of the major tourist गंतव्यों in the संयुक्त राज्य, the superdome routinely makes the `` छोटी list '' of उम्मीदवार being considered for प्रमुख sporting कार्यक्रम, such as the Super कटोरी and the Final चार.
in 2005, the Superdome gained international ध्यान of a अलग type जब it housed thousands of people seeking आश्रय इससे Hurricane कैटरीना.
the भवन suffered extensive क्षति as a परिणाम of the storm, और was closed for अनेक months afterward.
On अक्तूबर 3, 2011, it was announced कि जर्मनी automaker mercedes-benz purchased naming अधिकारों to the स्टेडियम.
The नई नाम took प्रभाव on October 23, 2011.
it is the तीसरा stadium that रै naming अधिकारों इससे mercedes-benz ( and पहला in the United राज्य ), after the Mercedes-Benz Arena, the stadium of bundesliga club vfb stuttgart, in Stuttgart, जर्मनी and the mercedes-benz एरिना in शंघाई, चीन.
Lobby of जम्बो House
जिराफ़ on the savannah at जम्बो हाउस
डिज़्नी 's Animal किंगडम आवास is an african-themed deluxe resort at the Walt डिज़्नी World Resort.
It खोली on अप्रैल 16, 2001.
the रिज़ॉर्ट is स्वामित्व और संचालित by वॉल्ट Disney Parks और रिसॉर्ट.
डिज़्नी 's Animal Kingdom Lodge is स्तिथ in the Animal Kingdom Resort क्षेत्रफल, सटा to Disney 's Animal Kingdom.
it gives अतिथि the अवसर to view चरने wildlife बाहर उनके कक्ष और public areas in the रिज़ॉर्ट भीतर निकटता of the पशु, conveying the अहसास of होने in an अफ़्रीकी सवाना.
The People 's पार्टी, भी known as the `` Populists '', थी a short-lived राजनैतिक पार्टी in the United States स्थापित in 1891 दौरान the populist गति ( United States, 19th Century ).
it थी सबसे महत्वपूर्ण in 1892-96, और then rapidly धुंधली away.
आधारित among poor, श्वेत cotton किसानो in the दक्षिण ( especially उत्तर कैरोलिना, Alabama, और टेक्सास ) और hard-pressed wheat farmers in the plains states ( especially Kansas and Nebraska ), it represented a कट्टरपंथी crusading form of agrarianism और दुश्मनी to banks, railroads, और elites generally.
It sometimes formed coalitions with मजदूर unions, और in 1896 the डेमोक्रेट endorsed उनके presidential nominee, विलियम जेनिंग्स Bryan.
The terms `` populist '' and `` populism `` are commonly used for anti-elitist appeals in opposition to established रूचि and मुख्यधारा पार्टियों.
भाषाई map of Nigeria, Cameroon, and बेनिन.
चिह्न in अंग्रेज़ी, outside the विश्वविद्यालयों of लागोस
There हैं hundreds of भाषाएं बोला in Nigeria.
The major भाषाएं हैं Yoruba, हौसा, Igbo, ईदो, fulfulde, Kanuri, और Ibibio.
the आधिकारिक language of Nigeria, English, the former colonial language, थी chosen to सुकर the cultural और linguistic unity of the country.
English, however, remains an exclusive preserve of the country 's शहरी elite, और is नहीं widely बोला in ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों, जिससे comprise three quarters of the countries जनसांख्यिकी.
Nigeria 's linguistic विविधता is a microcosm of अफ़्रीकी as a whole, encompassing तीन प्रमुख African languages परिवारों : Afroasiatic, Nilo-Saharan, और niger–congo.
Nigeria also has several as-yet unclassified भाषाएं, ऐसे as cen tuum, which may represent a relic of an भी greater diversity prior to the spread of the current भाषा परिवारों.
a series of events led to the attack on पर्ल Harbor.
युद्ध between Japan और the संयुक्त States था been a सम्भावना कि प्रत्येक स्वदेश 's military forces planned लिये since the 1920s, though real टेंशन किया नहीं begin जबतक the 1931 आक्रमण of Manchuria by Japan.
over the अगला दशक, Japan expanded धीरे into चीन, leading to सब out war between the two in 1937.
In 1940 Japan invaded फ्रेंच इंडोचायना in an effort to embargo all imports into चीन, including war supplies खरीदा from the u.s.
This move prompted the संयुक्त States to embargo all आयल exports, अग्रणी the Imperial Japanese नेवी to अनुमान that it had कम than दो सालो of बंकर आयल remaining और to support the मौजूदा plans to seize आयल resources in the डच ईस्ट Indies.
Planning था been underway लिये कुछ समय on an आक्रमण on the `` Southern Resource Area '' to add it to the Greater ईस्ट Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere कि जापानी envisioned in the Pacific.
The Philippine आइलैंड्स, at that समय an American territory, यहूद also a Japanese target.
the जापानी सैन्य concluded कि an आक्रमण of the Philippines would provoke an अमरीकी सैन्य response.
Rather than seize and fortify the islands, and इंतजार for the inevitable us counterattack, जापानी 's सैन्य नेताओ बजाय decided on the pre-emptive Pearl Harbor आक्रमण, जिससे they assumed होता negate the अमरीकी शक्तियां needed लिये the मुक्ति और reconquest of the आइलैंड्स.
Planning for the आक्रमण had begun in very जल्दी 1941, by Admiral Isoroku यामामोटो.
He finally won assent from the नवल High Command by, among other things, threatening to इस्तीफा.
the attack was approved in the गर्मियाँ at an Imperial Conference and again at a दूसरी Conference in the fall.
Simultaneously over the साल, पायलटों यहूद प्रशिक्षित, and ships prepared for its निष्पादन.
प्राधिकार for the attack थी granted at the दूसरी इम्पीरियल सम्मेलन if a diplomatic परिणाम संतोषजनक to जापानी थी not reached.
After फाइनल approval by Emperor Hirohito the order to आक्रमण was issued at the शुरूआत of December.
a common दफ्तर stapler
A आम school stapler
a stapler is a mechanical device कि joins चादरें of paper or समान सामग्री by driving a thin metal स्टेपल through the sheets और folding the ends.
staplers are widely प्रयुक्त in सरकारी, कारोबार, offices, homes and schools.
the word `` stapler '' can दरअसल refer to a number of अलग devices of varying uses.
in जोड to joining पेपर sheets together, staplers can also be प्रयुक्त in a सर्जिकल सेटिंग to join tissue together साथ सर्जिकल staples to बंद a surgical wound ( much in the same way as stitches or sutures ).
typically, most staplers are प्रयुक्त to join अनेक चादरें of पेपर.
पेपर staplers come in two पृथक types : हस्तचालित and इलेक्ट्रिक.
Manual staplers are सामान्यतः hand-held, हालांकि models कि are used जबकि set on a डेस्क or other सतह हैं नहीं uncommon.
इलेक्ट्रिक staplers मौजूद in a variety of अलग designs and models.
Their primary operating फलन is to जुड़ें large संख्याएँ of पेपर sheets साथ in रैपिड उत्तराधिकार.
कुछ electric staplers can जुड़ें up to 20 sheets at a समय.
swallowing, ज्ञात scientifically as deglutition, is the प्रक्रम in the human or एनिमल देह that makes कुछ pass from the mouth, to the pharynx, and into the esophagus, जबकि shutting the epiglottis.
If this fails और the object goes through the श्वासनली, तब choking or pulmonary aspiration can occur.
in the इंसान देह it is controlled by the swallowing reflex.
thaddeus Stevens ( April 4, 1792 – अगस्त 11, 1868 ), of पेन्सिलवेनिया, थी a leader of the Radical Republican faction of the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी and a fierce opponent of गुलामी.
He थी one of the most influential सदस्यों in the इतिहास of Congress.
As chairman of the शक्तिशाली House तरीके और अर्थात् कमेटी, स्टीवंस, a witty, व्यंग्यात्मक स्पीकर and flamboyant party leader, dominated the House from 1861 until उसके death.
He लिखा much of the वित्तीय legislation कि paid for the American Civil War.
स्टीवंस and सीनेटर Charles Sumner यहूद the prime नेताओ of the कट्टरपंथी Republicans दौरान the war and पुनर्निर्माण era.
scholarly दृश्य of Stevens have swung sharply चूंकि his death as interpretations of पुनर्निर्माण have changed.
इतिहासकारों of the Dunning स्कूल ( 1890s–1940s ) held Stevens responsible for demanding हर्ष उपचार of the white South and violating अमरीकी परंपराओं of republicanism, depicting स्टीवंस as a विलेन for his advocacy of हर्ष measures in the दक्षिण ऐसे as disfranchising all ex-confederates.
इस highly negative characterization आयोजित sway into the 1950s.
the rise of the neo-abolitionist स्कूल in the 1950s led to a दमदार धनात्मक appreciation of Stevens ' work on civil अधिकारों for Freedmen.
A recent biographer characterizes him as, `` The ग्रेट Commoner, savior of free public education in पेन्सिलवेनिया, नेशनल Republican leader in the struggles against slavery in the United States and intrepid mainstay of the attempt to सुरक्षित जातिगत justice for the Freedmen during Reconstruction, the तभी सदस्य of the House of प्रतिनिधि कभी to have महरूम ज्ञात as the 'dictator ' of Congress. ''
अवलोकन of the अनुवाद of eukaryotic messenger rna
आरेख showing the translation of mRNA और the synthesis of proteins by a राइबोसोम
In molecular जीवविज्ञान and आनुवंशिकी, अनुवाद is the process through जिससे सेल्यूलर ribosomes manufacture प्रोटीन.
it is भाग of the प्रक्रम of जीन अभिव्यक्ति.
In translation, messenger RNA ( mrna ) produced by transcription is decoded by the ribosome to produce a specific अमीनो एसिड chain, or polypeptide, that होगा later मोड़ें into an active प्रोटीन.
in जीवाणु, translation occurs in the cell 's cytoplasm, जहाँ the large and छोटी subunits of the राइबोसोम हैं स्तिथ, और bind to the mrna.
in eukaryotes, translation occurs आरपार the membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum in a process पुकारा vectorial संश्लेषण.
The राइबोसोम facilitates decoding by inducing the बाइंडिंग of trnas with complementary anticodon sequences to कि of the mrna.
The trnas carry विशिष्ट amino acids that हैं chained together into a polypeptide as the mrna passes through और is `` read '' by the राइबोसोम in a fashion reminiscent to कि of a भण्डार ticker and टिकर tape.
In many instances, the संपूर्ण ribosome/mrna जटिल बांधता to the बाहरी झिल्ली of the अशिष्ट endoplasmic reticulum and रिलीज the nascent protein polypeptide inside लिये later vesicle हस्तांतरण और स्राव outside of the कोशिका.
Many प्रकार of transcribed RNA, ऐसे as ट्रांसफ़र rna, ribosomal rna, and छोटी नाभिकीय RNA, do not undergo translation into प्रोटीन.
अनुवाद proceeds in चार phases : दीक्षा, elongation, translocation और termination ( सब describing the growth of the amino एसिड कड़ी, or polypeptide कि is the product of translation ).
Amino acids are brought to ribosomes और समवेत into प्रोटीन.
in activation, the correct अमीनो acid is covalently बंधुआ to the सही ट्रांसफ़र rna ( tRNA ).
the amino acid is joined by इसके carboxyl group to the 3 ' oh of the tRNA by an ester बंध.
जब the trna रै an amino एसिड linked to it, it is termed `` charged ''.
Initiation involves the small subunit of the ribosome binding to the 5 ' समाप्त of mRNA साथ the सहायता of दीक्षा कारकों ( if ).
termination of the polypeptide happens when the A साईट of the राइबोसोम चेहरों a stop codon ( UAA, UAG, or UGA ).
No trna can recognize or bind to this codon.
बजाय, the stop codon induces the बाइंडिंग of a रिलीज फ़ैक्टर protein कि prompts the disassembly of the संपूर्ण ribosome/mRNA जटिल.
a क्रमांक of antibiotics act by inhibiting translation ; these शामिल anisomycin, cycloheximide, chloramphenicol, tetracycline, streptomycin, erythromycin, और puromycin, among अन्य.
Prokaryotic ribosomes have a अलग ढांचा इससे कि of eukaryotic ribosomes, और thus antibiotics can specifically target bacterial infections बगैर any detriment to a eukaryotic मेजबान 's cells.
A multimedia message on a मोबाईल phone.
Multimedia Messaging Service ( MMS ) is a standard way to भेजें messages कि include मल्टीमीडिया सामग्री to और from mobile phones.
it extends the core sms ( Short संदेश Service ) capability कि अनुमत एक्सचेंज of text messages only up to 160 characters in length.
The सबसे popular उपयोग is to भेजें photographs इससे camera-equipped handsets, हालांकि it is भी popular as a विधि of delivering न्यूज और entertainment सामग्री सहित videos, तस्वीरें, टेक्स्ट पृष्ठों and ringtones.
The standard is विकसित by the खोलें मोबाईल Alliance ( OMA ), although during development it थी part of the 3GPP और वैप समूह.
smallpox थी an infectious बीमारी अद्वितीय to humans, caused by either of दो virus variants, Variola major and Variola minor.
The बीमारी is भी known by the Latin names Variola or Variola vera, derived from varius ( `` spotted '' ) or varus ( `` मुंहासे '' ).
the disease was originally known in अंग्रेज़ी as the `` चेचक '' or `` रेड plague '' ; the term `` smallpox '' थी first प्रयुक्त in ब्रिटेन in the 15th सदी to distinguish variola from the `` ग्रेट चेचक '' ( syphilis ).
The पिछला naturally occurring मामला of smallpox ( Variola minor ) was diagnosed on 26 October 1977.
Smallpox localized in small रक्त vessels of the स्किन और in the mouth and throat.
In the skin it resulted in a characteristic maculopapular rash और, later, उठाया fluid-filled blisters.
V. major produces a अधिक गंभीर disease और has an overall मृत्यु रेट of 30–35 %.
V. नाबालिग कल्याणकारी a milder form of बीमारी ( also ज्ञात as alastrim, cottonpox, milkpox, whitepox, और Cuban itch ) जिससे मारता परिचय 1 % of its पीड़ितों.
long-term complications of V. प्रमुख infection शामिल characteristic scars, commonly on the face, which occur in 65–85 % of survivors.
दृष्टिहीनता resulting इससे corneal ulceration and scarring, और limb deformities due to arthritis और osteomyelitis are कम आम complications, देखी in परिचय 2–5 % of मामले.
Smallpox is believed to have उभरा in इंसान populations about 10,000 BC.
The earliest शारीरिक प्रमाण of it is संभवतः the pustular rash on the mummified body of pharaoh Ramses V of Egypt.
The disease killed an estimated 400,000 europeans annually दौरान the closing सालो of the 18th century ( सहित five reigning monarchs ), और was जिम्मेदार for a third of सब blindness.
of सब those संक्रमित, 20–60 % —and over 80 % of संक्रमित children—died from the disease.
Smallpox थी responsible लिये an estimated 300–500 million मौतों दौरान the 20th सदी.
as recently as 1967, the World स्वास्थ्य संगठन ( WHO ) अनुमानित कि 15 million people contracted the disease और कि दो लाख died in कि year.
After टीकाकरण campaigns throughout the 19th और 20th centuries, the WHO certified the eradication of smallpox in 1979.
smallpox is एक of दो संक्रामक रोगों to have महरूम eradicated, the other होने rinderpest, which was घोषित eradicated in 2011.
`` I want to थाम अपना Hand '' is a song by the English चट्टान बैंड the बीटल्स.
Written by जॉन Lennon और पॉल McCartney, और अंकित in October 1963, it थी the first बीटल्स record to be made using four-track equipment.
साथ advance orders exceeding one लाख नक़ल in the United किंगडम, `` I want to थाम अपना हाथ '' होता साधारणतया have गए सीधा to the शीर्ष of the British रिकार्ड charts on its day of रिलीज ( 29 November 1963 ) had it नहीं been अवरोधित by the समूह 's पहला million seller `` वो loves तुम ``, the बीटल्स ' previous UK सिंगल, which was having a resurgent spell in the top position following intense media coverage of the समूह.
Taking two सप्ताह to dislodge इसके पूर्ववर्ती, `` i want to Hold Your हाथ '' ठहरे at number एक लिये पाँच सप्ताह and remained in the UK शीर्ष fifty for twenty-one सप्ताह in total.
it थी भी the group 's first अमरीकी number one, प्रवेश the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 chart on 18 जनवरी 1964 at क्रमांक forty-five and starting the अंग्रेजों आक्रमण of the American म्यूज़िक उद्योग.
by 1 February it आयोजित the क्रमांक एक spot — लिये सात weeks — पहले होने replaced by `` She Loves तुम '', a reverse scenario of कया था occurred in ब्रिटेन, and remained in the us चार्ट लिये a total of पंद्रह weeks.
`` i want to थाम Your Hand '' became the बीटल्स ' best-selling single विश्वव्यापी.
a gasser थी a प्रकार of hot rod originating on the dragstrips of the संयुक्त States in the लेट 1950s और जारी जबतक the जल्दी 1970s.
Gassers were आधारित on उत्पादन models इससे the 1930s to mid-1960s, जिससे have been stripped of extraneous weight और jacked up using a ट्रक बीम धुरी to provide बेहतर वज़न distribution on acceleration ( Beam axles are भी हल्का than an स्वतंत्र front बर्खास्तगी ), though a raised stock front suspension is आम as well.
Common weight reduction techniques शामिल fiberglass body panels, stripped इंटीरियर्स और plexiglass windows ( sometimes color tinted ).
क्युकी they were primarily built लिये रेसिंग, these गाड़ियाँ typically था the इंजन swapped to a larger or more शक्तिशाली एक, the मौजूदा stock इंजन परिवर्धित ( often heavily ) or दोनो.
it थी बहुत common to अनुरूप a Roots supercharger और mechanical ईंधन injection, ऐसे as one from Algon, Hilborn, or crower.
With रूप होने dictated by फलन, their रूप is often बहुत top heavy और ungainly, largely due to सामने ends being उठाया higher than भण्डार, to assist in the weight ट्रांसफ़र during रैपिड त्वरण ( racing ).
Having उनके exhaust pipes exit through the सामने fender खूब is a common characteristic of gassers, as is having लाशें painted in flamboyant metalflakes, pearls, and कैंडी finishes complemented by lettering in जंगली फ़ॉन्ट्स.
The name arose because वे competed in a गैसोलीन -fueled drag रेसिंग class, बल्कि than एक using methanol or nitromethane.
The gasser is the पूर्ववर्ती of the modern मजेदार car.
Twelve-lead EKG of a 26-year-old पुरूष
Electrocardiography ( ECG or ईकेजी from ) is a transthoracic ( आरपार the वक्ष or chest ) interpretation of the electrical कार्यकलाप of the दिल over a काल of time, as detected by electrodes attached to the surface of the skin और recorded by a device बाह्य to the body.
The recording उत्पादित by this noninvasive कार्यविधि is termed an electrocardiogram ( भी ईसीजी or ईकेजी ).
An ईसीजी is used to measure the rate and नियमितता of heartbeats, as खूब as the size और स्थिति of the कक्षों, the presence of कोई क्षति to the heart, और the प्रभाव of drugs or devices प्रयुक्त to विनियमित the heart, ऐसे as a pacemaker.
Most ecgs हैं performed for diagnostic or research उद्देश्य on इंसान दिल, लकिन may भी be performed on animals, usually for निदान of heart abnormalities or शोध.
डोनाल्ड John Trump, Sr. ( born June 14, 1946 ) is an American कारोबार magnate, टेलीविज़न personality और author.
he is the chairman और अध्यक्ष of the Trump Organization और the संस्थापक of Trump entertainment रिसॉर्ट.
ट्रम्प 's हद lifestyle, outspoken manner, and role on the एनबीसी reality show The Apprentice have made उसे a well-known हस्ती who थी No. 14 on the 2012 Forbes हस्ती 100 list.
ट्रम्प is the बेटे of Fred ट्रम्प, a wealthy New York नगर real-estate डेवलपर.
he worked for उसके पिता 's कड़, Elizabeth ट्रम्प & Son, जबकि उपस्थित the व्हार्टन School of the विश्वविद्यालयों of पेन्सिलवेनिया, and in 1968 officially joined the company.
He was दिए कंट्रोल of the कम्पनी in 1971 and renamed it The ट्रम्प संगठन.
in 2010, ट्रम्प expressed an interest in बनने a candidate लिये president of the United राज्य in the 2012 election, though in may 2011, he announced he would नहीं be a प्रत्याशी.
in दिसम्बर 2011, Trump was suggested as a संभावित vice अध्यक्षीय selection by मिशेल bachmann, if she were to जीत the Republican nomination.
`` a बदलें is gon na Come '' is a 1964 सिंगल by r & b singer-songwriter sam Cooke, लिखा and पहला recorded in 1963 and released under the RCA Victor लेबल shortly बाद his death in लेट 1964.
Though तभी a modest hit for cooke in तुलना with his पिछला singles, the song came to exemplify the 1960s ' सिविल अधिकारों गति.
The सोंग has gained in लोकप्रियता और नाजुक acclaim in the decades since its रिलीज, and is # 12 on Rolling Stone 's 500 Greatest Songs of सब समय.
भाप rising from the Nesjavellir Geothermal Power Station in Iceland.
Geothermal energy is थर्मल energy उत्पन्न and भंडारित in the धरती.
Thermal उर्जा is the उर्जा that determines the तापमान of matter.
the geothermal energy of the धरती 's क्रस्ट originates इससे the original गठन of the planet ( 20 % ) और इससे radioactive क्षय of खनिज ( 80 % ).
The geothermal gradient, which is the अंतर in temperature between the core of the planet और its surface, ड्राइव a निरन्तर conduction of थर्मल energy in the रूप of heat from the core to the सतह.
The adjective geothermal originates इससे the यूनानी roots γη ( ge ), meaning धरती, और θερμος ( thermos ), meaning hot.
at the कोर of the Earth, thermal उर्जा is created by radioactive क्षय and temperatures may reach over 5000 °C ( 9,000 °F ).
Heat conducts from the कोर to surrounding cooler rock.
The high temperature और pressure cause कुछ rock to melt, creating मैग्मा convection upward since it is हल्का than the solid rock.
the magma heats rock और जल in the क्रस्ट, sometimes up to 370 °c ( 700 °F ).
इससे hot स्रोतों, geothermal उर्जा has been used लिये स्नान since paleolithic times और for space हीटिंग since प्राचीन रोमन टाइम्स, but it is अभी better ज्ञात लिये electricity generation.
Worldwide, about 10,715 megawatts ( MW ) of geothermal शक्ति is online in 24 countries.
an additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating क्षमता is installed for ज़िला हीटिंग, स्पेस हीटिंग, spas, औद्योगिक प्रक्रियाओं, desalination and agricultural अनुप्रयोग.
Geothermal power is cost प्रभावी, reliable, sustainable, और environmentally दोस्ताना, लकिन has historically महरूम सीमित to areas निकट tectonic plate सीमाएँ.
Recent technological अग्रिम have dramatically विस्तारित the range और size of सुगठित resources, especially for अनुप्रयोग such as घर heating, खोलने a potential लिये फैली exploitation.
geothermal wells रिलीज greenhouse गैसों फंस deep within the धरती, लकिन these emissions are much निम्नतर per energy ईकाई than those of चट्टान fuels.
As a परिणाम, geothermal शक्ति has the संभावित to सहायता mitigate global वार्मिंग if widely तैनात in place of चट्टान fuels.
The धरती 's geothermal resources are theoretically अधिक than पर्याप्त to supply मानवता 's energy needs, लकिन तभी a very small भिन्न may be profitably शोषित.
खुदाई और खोजी लिये deep resources is very महंगी.
Forecasts for the भविष्य of geothermal शक्ति depend on assumptions परिचय प्रौद्योगिकी, उर्जा कीमतें, subsidies, and ब्याज rates.
Pilot कार्यक्रम like EWEB 's ग्राहक opt in ग्रीन शक्ति Program दिखाएँ कि ग्राहक होता be willing to अदा a little अधिक for a बेदर्दी उर्जा source जैसे geothermal.
But as a परिणाम of government assisted शोध and उद्योग अनुभव, the cost of generating geothermal power रै decreased by 25 % over the past दो decades.
in 2001, geothermal energy लागत between two और ten सेंट per सम्पात.
स्वामित्व of प्रॉपर्टी may be private, सामूहिक, or आम और the प्रॉपर्टी may be objects, land/real एस्टेट, or intellectual प्रॉपर्टी.
determining स्वामित्व in विधि involves determining जो has निश्चित अधिकारों और कर्तव्य over the प्रॉपर्टी.
ये rights and कर्तव्य, sometimes पुकारा a 'bundle of rights ', can be separated और held by अलग parties.
The question of ownership reaches वापस to the ancient दार्शनिकों, प्लेटो and अरस्तू, who आयोजित different राय on the विषय.
Plato ( 428/427 BC – 348/347 bc ) thought private property created divisive inequalities, while Aristotle ( 384 bc – 322 BC ) thought निजी property सक्रिय लोगों to प्राप्त the full benefit of उनके labor.
Private प्रॉपर्टी can circumvent कया is अभी referred to as the “ त्रासदी of the commons ” प्रॉब्लम, जहाँ people tend to रुसवा आम property more than वे do निजी property.
Given a short-sighted owner, however, a निजी प्रॉपर्टी system can मेक ये tragedies worse—for example, a निजी owner of a टुकड़ा of oil-rich प्रॉपर्टी, depending on his worldview, might be अधिक interested in short-term financial gain than incremental use साथ an नजर toward other 's चिंताएं ( e.g., those of future generations, the disenfranchised, etc. ).
While Aristotle जायज the अस्तित्व of निजी ownership, he left खोलें questions of ( 1 ) how to allocate property between what is निजी और आम और ( 2 ) how to allocate the निजी property भीतर समाज.
over the millennia, and आरपार संस्कृतियों what can be प्रॉपर्टी और how it is regarded culturally have varied widely.
स्वामित्व is the basis लिये अनेक other concepts that form the मूलाधार of प्राचीन और आधुनिक समाजों ऐसे as money, व्यापार, debt, दिवालियापन, the criminality of चोरी, और निजी vs. पब्लिक प्रॉपर्टी.
Ownership is the key भवन block in the विकास of the पूंजीवादी socio-economic system.
Adam Smith stated कि एक of the sacred laws of justice was to गार्ड a व्यक्ति 's property और possessions.
The प्रक्रम और यांत्रिकी of स्वामित्व are fairly जटिल : one can gain, transfer and lose ownership of प्रॉपर्टी in a number of तरीके.
To acquire प्रॉपर्टी one can खरीदें it साथ धन, व्यापार it लिये अन्य प्रॉपर्टी, प्राप्त it as a gift, steal it, find it, make, it or होमस्टीड it.
एक can ट्रांसफ़र or खोना ownership of property by selling it for धन, exchanging it for अन्य property, giving it as a तोहफा, being robbed of it, it, or having it stripped from one 's ownership through legal means ऐसे as eviction, foreclosure, seizure, or taking.
स्वामित्व is self-propagating in that the owner of कोई property will भी अपना the आर्थिक benefits of कि प्रॉपर्टी.
`` What 's my नाम ? '' is a सोंग अंकित by barbadian रिकॉर्डिंग artist रिहाना, लिये उसके पांचवां स्टुडियो एल्बम लाउड ( 2010 ).
Featuring अतिथि vocals इससे कनाडाई rapper Drake, the song थी released as the second सिंगल इससे Loud on अक्तूबर 29, 2010 through Def Jam रिकार्डिंग.
The r & b सोंग was produced by the Norwegian production duo स्टारगेट, और was written by the duo along with Ester डीन, Traci hale, and ड्रेक.
Lyrically, it incorporates themes of sexual intercourse और रोमांस.
Music critics दिया the सोंग धनात्मक reviews, citing it कुछ of रिहाना 's best vocal कार्य to तिथि ; वहीँ was a तारीफ़ regarding इसके romantic nature, as खूब as इसके यौन टोन.
`` कया 's My Name ? '' थी a वाणिज्यिक success और अव्वल the us Billboard Hot 100 चार्ट, giving Rihanna her तीसरा number-one सिंगल in 2010, as well as her eighth overall on the chart.
The सोंग also topped the charts in हंगेरियाई और the United किंगडम और reached the शीर्ष पाँच in Canada, Ireland, नई Zealand, Norway और स्लोवाक.
the song received a नामांकन at the 54th Grammy Awards for बेहतरीन Rap/Sung Collaboration.
An accompanying म्यूज़िक वीडियो, directed by Philip andelman, portrays a रोमांटिक encounter between Rihanna and Drake in a grocery store साथ साथ romantic दृश्यों between the जोड़ी and Rihanna चलना through मैनहटन 's Lower ईस्ट Side.
`` कया 's My Name ? '' was promoted साथ सजीव प्रदर्शन आरपार दोनो पहलू of the अटलांटिक, सहित शनिवार रात्रि Live in America and the श्रेणी seven finale of The X Factor in the United Kingdom.
The latter प्रदर्शन resulted in an investigation from the country 's मीडिया नियामक, ofcom, लिये the raunchy nature of रिहाना 's पहनावा.
A mathematical निरंतर is a खास number, प्रायः a रियल क्रमांक, कि is `` significantly दिलचस्प in some way ''.
स्थिरांक arise in अनेक अलग areas of mathematics, साथ स्थिरांक ऐसे as e ( mathematical constant ) | और pi| occurring in such विविध contexts as geometry, number theory और calculus.
What it अर्थात् लिये a constant to उठता `` naturally '', and कया makes a constant `` interesting '', is ultimately a पदार्थ of taste, and कुछ mathematical स्थिरांक are notable more लिये historical reasons than for उनके मूलभूत गणितीय ब्याज.
the अधिक popular स्थिरांक have been पढ़ाई throughout the ages और computed to अनेक दशमलव स्थान.
All mathematical स्थिरांक are definable numbers and प्रायः हैं भी computable संख्याएँ ( chaitin 's constant होने a significant exception ).
Elections to the संयुक्त States Senate यहूद आयोजित on November 2, 2010, for 37 of the United States Senate 's 100 सीटे.
( a खास चुनाव on जनवरी 19, 2010 in Massachusetts थी आयोजित पहले in the साल. )
Thirty-four of the seats यहूद लिये six-year terms to the सीनेट 's `` class तीन '', और three यहूद खास elections लिये shorter शर्तें.
Of the 37 elections, 19 featured लाज़िम डेमोक्रेट ( 7 of जिसको रिटायर्ड or were defeated in the primary ) और 18 featured incumbent Republicans ( eight of whom retired or were पराजित in the primary ).
After the पिछला elections ( in 2008 ), the संयुक्त States सीनेट थी रचित of 58 Democrats, 40 Republicans, and 2 independents who caucus with the Democrats.
republicans won चार सीटे आयोजित by retiring Democrats और republicans defeated two लाज़िम डेमोक्रेट.
This was the largest क्रमांक of republicans gains since the 1994 elections और भी the पहला time since कि चुनाव that republicans सफलतापूर्वक defended सब of उनके own seats.
This was the चौथी लगातार चुनाव of `` क्लास 3 '' सीनेटरों जहाँ डेमोक्रेट have विफल to gain सीटे and the third लगातार mid-term election held in a president 's first पद जहाँ Republicans have picked-up सीटे.
Despite ये रिपब्लिकन wins, however, the डेमोक्रेट retained a majority of the सीनेट साथ 51 seats plus 2 independents जो caucus with उन्हें, compared to the 47 Republicans.
A solstice is an खगोलीय इवेंट that occurs twice each year as the सूर्य reaches इसके highest or lowest excursion सापेक्ष to the celestial equator on the celestial गोला.
As a परिणाम, on the day of the संक्रांति, the सूर्य appears to have reached its उच्चतम or न्यूनतम सालाना ऊँचाई in the sky above the क्षितिज at local सौर नून.
the शब्द solstice is derived from the Latin sol ( सूर्य ) और sistere ( to स्टैंड still ), क्युकी at the solstices, the Sun stands still in उतार ; that is, the seasonal गति of the सूर्य 's path ( as देखी इससे धरती ) comes to a रोकें before reversing direction.
The solstices, together साथ the equinoxes, are connected साथ the सीज़न.
in many cultures the solstices चिह्नित either the शुरूआत or the midpoint of शीत और गर्मियाँ.
The term solstice can भी be प्रयुक्त in a broader भाव, as the तिथि ( day ) जब this occurs.
The day of the solstice is either the longest दिन of the year ( in गर्मियाँ ) or the shortest दिन of the year ( in शीत ) लिये any प्लेस बाहर of the tropics.
Jerry ली Lewis ( born सितंबर 29, 1935 ) is an American rock और फेंकें और देश music singer-songwriter और pianist.
He is known by the nickname `` The कातिल '' और is often viewed as “rock & roll 's first great जंगली man”.
An जल्दी पायोनियर of rock और roll म्यूज़िक, in 1956 Lewis बना his पहला recordings at Sun Records.
`` क्रेजी Arms `` sold 300,000 copies in the दक्षिण, but it was his 1957 hit `` पूरे Lotta Shakin ' Going On `` कि शॉट Lewis to fame worldwide.
Lewis followed इस in that वही साल when he recorded गीतों such as `` Great गेंदें of आग ``, `` breathless `` और `` ऊँची School गोपनीय ``.
लुईस बेची अधिक records than Elvis Presley at this time.
However, Lewis ' चट्टान 'n ' roll career faltered in the wake of उसके marriage to उसके young cousin.
He था little success in the चार्ट following the कांड और उसके लोकप्रियता जल्दी धुंधली.
His सजीव प्रदर्शन fees plummeted इससे $ 10,000 प्रति night to $ 250.
In the meantime he थी संकल्पित to लाभ वापस कुछ of उसके popularity.
During the early 60’s he किया n't have much chart success with few अपवाद such as `` What 'd i कह ``.
उसके सजीव performances at this time यहूद increasingly wild and energetic.
His album Live at the स्टार Club, हैम्बर्ग from 1964 is प्रायः regarded by अनेक म्यूज़िक journalists और fans as one of the wildest and greatest rock और roll concert एल्बम ever.
After recording गीतों such as `` i 'm on आग '' for अनेक years with छोटी success, in 1968 Lewis बना a transition into देश म्यूज़िक और था हिट्स साथ गीतों ऐसे as `` Another Place, Another समय ''.
This reignited उसके career and throughout the late '60s और '70s he regularly अव्वल the country-western charts.
His # 1 देश hits शामिल `` to मेक प्रेम मीठी लिये तुम ``, `` वहीँ जरूर be More to Love than This ``, `` होता You Take Another Chance on me `` and `` me And Bobby McGee ``.
लुईस 's successes continued throughout the decade और he embraced his rock 'n ' फेंकें पास्ट with गीतों such as a cover of the बिग Bopper 's `` chantilly फीता `` and `` Rockin ' My Life दूर ``.
In the 21st सदी लुईस continues to दौरे to ऑडियंस around the संसार and स्टिल रिलीज new albums.
One such एल्बम, titled पिछला Man Standing, is उसके best selling to तिथि at over a लाख copies sold विश्वव्यापी.
इस was followed by औसत बूढ़ा Man which has प्राप्त कुछ of the best sales of lewis’s करियर.
लुईस has था a dozen gold रिकॉर्ड in both rock and देश, जीती several Grammy awards, including a आजीवन उपलब्धि Award.
लुईस was inducted into the चट्टान and Roll Hall of कीर्ति in 1986, और उसके pioneering योगदान to the विधा has महरूम पहचाना by the rockabilly हॉल of कीर्ति.
In 1989, his जीवन थी chronicled in the फिल्म Great Balls of आग, starring Dennis quaid.
In 2003, Rolling स्टोन Magazine सूचीबद्ध his बक्सा नियत सब कातिल, no Filler : The Anthology number 242 on their सूची of `` 500 महानतम एल्बम of all time ``.
in 2004, they ranked him number 24 on उनके list of the 100 महानतम Artists of All समय.
Lewis is the पिछला surviving member of सूर्य Records ' लाख डालर quartet और the क्लास of '55 एल्बम, which भी शामिल Johnny नकदी, कार्ल Perkins, Roy Orbison and Elvis Presley.
हेनरी Louis Stephens, untitled watercolor ( 1863 ) of a man reading a newspaper साथ शीर्षक `` अध्यक्षीय उदघोषणा / गुलामी ''.
the emancipation Proclamation was an order issued to all खण्ड of the कार्यपालिका शाखा ( सहित the Army और नेवी ) of the United राज्य by President Abraham Lincoln on जनवरी 1, 1863, दौरान the American Civil युद्ध.
It was based on the president 's संवैधानिक authority as commander in मुख्य of the armed forces ; it was not a विधि passed by Congress.
it proclaimed all those enslaved in confederate territory to be forever free, and ordered the फौज ( and all खण्ड of the कार्यपालिका शाखा ) to treat as फ़्री सब those enslaved in टेन states that were still in rebellion, यूँ applying to 3.1 लाख of the 4 million स्लेव in the u.s.
the उदघोषणा could not be enforced in क्षेत्रों still under rebellion, लकिन as the army took control of Confederate regions, the slaves in those regions यहूद emancipated rather than लौटे to उनके मास्टर्स.
From 20,000 to 50,000 former स्लेव in regions where विद्रोह था already been subdued were immediately emancipated, और over 3 million अधिक यहूद emancipated as the Union फौज उन्नत.
The उदघोषणा किया नहीं apply to the पाँच स्लेव states कि यहूद नहीं in rebellion, nor to most regions already नियंत्रित by the Union army ; emancipation there would आइये बाद पृथक राज्य क्रियाएँ and/or the December 1865 अनुसमर्थन of the तेरहवीं Amendment, which बना slavery illegal everywhere in the u.s.
the Proclamation did नहीं compensate the स्वामी, did not itself गैरकानूनी गुलामी, and किया नहीं make the ex-slaves ( called freedmen ) नागरिकों.
it made the eradication of गुलामी an explicit war goal, in जोड to the लक्ष्य of reuniting the संघ.
On सितंबर 22, 1862, Lincoln had issued a प्रारंभिक proclamation that he होता अनुक्रम the emancipation of all स्लेव in any राज्य of the Confederate राज्य of अमेरिका कि did not return to Union control by जनवरी 1, 1863.
none लौटे, और the अनुक्रम, हस्ताक्षरित और जारी जनवरी 1, 1863, took effect except in स्थितियाँ where the संघ था already ज़्यादातर regained control.
The Proclamation outraged white Southerners who envisioned a race war, angered कुछ Northern Democrats, energized anti-slavery forces, और weakened शक्तियां in यूरोपीय कि wanted to intervene to help the Confederacy.
It also lifted the spirits of African Americans दोनो in the दक्षिणी and उत्तरी States, and led to अनेक slaves escaping उनके masters and कार्यशील behind Union लाइनों in अनुक्रम to have their emancipation enforced.
Sucker Punch is a 2011 American fantasy कार्रवाई film निर्देशित by Zack स्नाइडर और co-written by him और स्टीव शिबुया.
It is Snyder 's first फिल्मी आधारित on an original script.
The फिल्मी सितारों एमिली Browning, abbie Cornish, Jena malone, वैनेसा Hudgens, जेमी Chung, और Carla Gugino.
The कथानक फ़ॉलो the fantasies of a यंग woman who is committed to a दिमागी संस्था, as वो makes a plan to एस्केप the hospital पहले suffering a मस्तिष्कखंडछेदन.
The film was released in दोनो conventional और IMAX थिएटर in the United राज्य at मध्यरात्रि on March 25, 2011.
it प्राप्त generally negative समीक्षाएँ from critics, but was a moderate box office success.
Front और वापस of Canon powershot A95, a typical pocket-size डिजिटल कैमरा
haselblad 503cw साथ ixpress V96C डिजिटल back, an उदाहरण of a पेशेवर डिजिटल कैमरा प्रणाली
a डिजिटल कैमरा ( or digicam ) is a camera that takes video or स्टिल छायाचित्र by recording images on an electronic image सेंसर.
सबसे कैमरे sold today are digital, and digital cameras are incorporated into अनेक devices ranging इससे गुस्से और mobile फोन ( पुकारा कैमरा phones ) to वाहनों.
Digital और फिल्मी कैमरे share an optical प्रणाली, typically using a lens with a परिवर्तनीय diaphragm to focus लाइट onto an image पिकअप device.
The diaphragm and shutter admit the सही राशि of light to the imager, बस as साथ फिल्मी लकिन the image pickup device is electronic बल्कि than रासायनिक.
However, नापसंद film cameras, डिजिटल कैमरे can display बिंब on a screen तत्काल बाद being अंकित, and स्टोर और हटाएँ बिंब इससे मेमोरी.
अनेक digital cameras can भी रिकार्ड चलती वीडियो साथ ध्वनि.
Some digital कैमरे can crop और stitch तस्वीरें and perform other elementary image editing.
The inside and front of a Dell poweredge वेब सर्वर, a कंप्यूटर designed लिये rack mounting
Multiple वेब servers may be used लिये a ऊँची ट्रैफ़िक website, here four Sun आग x4200 सर्वर हैं installed साथ
Web server can refer to either the hardware ( the computer ) or the software ( the computer अनुप्रयोग ) that helps to उद्धार वेब content कि can be accessed through the अंतरजाल.
The most common use of web servers is to host websites, लकिन there हैं अन्य uses such as गेमिंग, data storage or running enterprise अनुप्रयोग.
The अमरीकी रेड Cross ( चाप ), also ज्ञात as the अमरीकी नेशनल रेड Cross, is a humanitarian organization कि provides emergency सहायता, विपत्ति राहत और शिक्षा inside the संयुक्त States.
it is the designated u.S. संबद्ध of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ of रेड क्रॉस और Red Crescent समाजों.
आज, in जोड to domestic विपत्ति relief, the American रेड Cross offers services in पाँच other areas : community services कि सहायता the needy ; संचार services and सुकून for सैन्य members और उनके family members ; the collection, प्रसंस्करण and वितरण of blood और रक्त products ; educational कार्यक्रम on preparedness, health, और सुरक्षा ; and international relief और development कार्यक्रम.
Issued a कॉरपोरेट charter by the संयुक्त States कॉंग्रेस under शीर्षक 36 of the United States Code, Section 3001, the अमरीकी नेशनल Red Cross is governed by volunteers and supported by जातियाँ दान, income इससे health और सुरक्षा training और उत्पाद, and income from रक्त products.
The American रेड क्रॉस is headquartered in Washington, d.c.
the Chairman of the फलक of राज्यपालों, सेवारत her second three-year term, is bonnie mcelveen-hunter.
the वर्तमान अध्यक्ष and Chief कार्यपालिका Officer is गेल J. McGovern.
a rooster in कोसोवो
A rooster, प्रर्दशित wattles, earlobes and comb
a rooster crowing ( with ऑडियो )
सही
a मुर्गा ( भी पुकारा a cockerel or cock ) is a male gallinaceous bird.
it usually refers to a पुरूष chicken ( gallus gallus ).
Immature male मुर्गियों कम than एक year बूढ़ा हैं पुकारा cockerels.
the पद `` rooster '' originates in the United States, and the पद is widely प्रयुक्त throughout North अमेरिका, as well as Australia और नई Zealand.
In the United Kingdom और Ireland the पुरानी पद `` cockerel '' is अधिक commonly प्रयुक्त.
`` मुर्गा '' is in general उपयोग as the नाम लिये a पुरूष of other species of bird, for उदाहरण `` मुर्गा गौरैया ''.
`` Roosting '' is the action of perching aloft to नींद at night, और is done by both sexes.
The rooster is polygamous, but can नहीं गार्ड several nests of eggs at एकबार.
He गार्ड the general area जहाँ उसके hens are nesting, and होगा attack अन्य roosters कि डालें उसके territory.
दौरान the दिन, he प्रायः sits on a high पर्च, प्रायः 3–5 फीट off the ground to serve as a lookout for उसके flock.
He will sound a distinctive alarm कॉल if परभक्षी हैं nearby.
The Pokémon Trading Card खेल ( पोकीमॉन TCG ) is a collectible card खेल आधारित on the पोकीमॉन video खेल श्रेणी, first published in अक्तूबर 1996 by Media Factory in जापानी.
In the US, it थी initially प्रकाशित by wizards of the Coast, the कम्पनी that produces, in दिसम्बर 1998.
Nintendo took over प्रकाशन in जून 2003.
it is एक of Nintendo 's last remaining दमदार links to its heritage as a playing कार्ड कम्पनी.
जमीन रोवर is a British car manufacturer साथ its मुख्यालय in gaydon, Warwickshire, United किंगडम जिससे specialises in four-wheel-drive वाहनों.
It is part of the Jaguar जमीन रोवर समूह, a subsidiary of tata Motors of India.
it is the दूसरी oldest four-wheel-drive car brand in the संसार ( after Jeep ).
The जमीन Rover नाम थी originally used by the रोवर Company लिये एक specific गाडी मॉडल, named simply the Land Rover, शुभारम्भ by रोवर in 1948.
over the following years it developed into a marque encompassing a दायरा of four-wheel-drive मॉडल, सहित the Defender, Discovery, Freelander, Range Rover, Range Rover खेल and Range रोवर evoque.
Land Rovers हैं फिलहाल assembled in the कम्पनी 's Halewood and Solihull plants, with शोध and विकास लेने प्लेस at jlr 's gaydon and whitley अभियान्त्रिकी centres.
जमीन रोवर sold 194,000 वाहनों worldwide in 2009.
Although the brand originates from the original 1948 मॉडल, Land Rover as a company has तभी existed चूंकि 1978.
Prior to this, it was a उत्पाद लकीर of the रोवर Company which was subsequently अवशोषित into the rover-triumph प्रभाग of the British Leyland Motor निगम ( bl ) following leyland Motor निगम ’s कब्ज़ा of रोवर in 1967.
the जारी commercial success of the असली Land Rover श्रेणी मॉडल, और latterly the Range Rover in the 1970s in the midst of bl’s खूब प्रलेखित business troubles prompted the स्थापना of a separate जमीन Rover कम्पनी but स्टिल अंतर्गत the bl छतरियाँ, बाकी भाग of the subsequent Rover समूह in 1988, अंतर्गत the स्वामित्व of British Aerospace after the remains of अंग्रेजों leyland were broken up and privatised.
In 1994 Rover Group plc थी acquired by bmw.
In 2000, Rover Group was broken-up by bmw and Land Rover was बेची to घाट मोटर Company, बनने भाग of its Premier ऑटोमोटिव Group.
in 2006 घाट खरीदा the रोवर ब्रांड इससे BMW लिये around £6 million.
This reunited the Rover and Land रोवर brands for the first समय since 2000 when the रोवर group was टूटा up by bmw.
in June 2008, Ford बेची both Land Rover और जैगुआर Cars to tata Motors.
इस sale भी included the dormant रोवर ब्रांड
The कवर of the first dvd संकलन released by Aniplex of The New कप्तान Shūsuke amagai चाप
the ninth ऋतु of the ब्लीच anime श्रेणी is named.
The श्रेणी is based on tite Kubo 's manga साथ same नाम.
the episodes हैं निर्देशित by Noriyuki abe and produced by TV टोकियो, Dentsu, और Studio pierrot.
The episodes ' plot focuses on the परिचय of a new आत्मा Reaper captain, Shūsuke amagai, and the रहस्य surrounding the kasumiōji clan, एक of the परिवारों कि constitute the धामों of आत्मा समाज.
the season began airing on April 23, 2008 in जापानी on tv Tokyo and ended on अक्तूबर 7, 2008.
The English अनुकूलन of the ब्लीच दुश्मनी is licensed by Viz Media, और इस चाप began airing on August 28, 2010 on Cartoon संजाल 's Adult Swim, and समाप्त on जनवरी 29, 2011.
Five dvd compilations, each containing चार episodes of the ऋतु, have been released by aniplex ; the first dvd compilation was released on November 26, 2008 और the पांचवां on कूच 25, 2009.
A dvd बक्सा will be प्रकाशित by Viz मीडिया on December 13, 2011.
The episodes use three pieces of theme music : एक खोलने थीम and दो closing विषयवस्तु.
The खोलने theme is `` Chu-Bura `` by kelun.
the first closing थीम is `` नारंगी '' by lil'b, used लिये episodes 168 to 179, और the second closing theme is `` Gallop '' by pe'zmoku, प्रयुक्त लिये the शेष of the episodes.
the विनियमन of prostitution in the United States is नहीं among the enumerated शक्तियां of the संघीय सरकारी ; Under the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, it is इसलिए exclusively the डोमेन of the states to परमिट, prohibit, or otherwise regulate वाणिज्यिक sex, except insofar as कॉंग्रेस may regulate it as भाग of अंतरराज्यीय कॉमर्स साथ कानून जैसे the Mann Act.
In most states, वेश्यावृति is माना a misdemeanor in the category of public अनुक्रम अपराधों, a अपराधों that disrupts the अनुक्रम of a community.
It थी at एक समय considered to be a vagrancy crime.
फिलहाल, Nevada is the only राज्य to allow brothel वेश्यावृति, the शर्तें of जिससे are stipulated in the नेवाडा संशोधित Statutes.
Only 8 counties currently contain क्रियाशील brothels.
All फ़ॉर्म of वेश्यावृति हैं illegal in क्लार्क काउंटी ( which contains the लास Vegas–Paradise महानगर क्षेत्रफल ), washoe County ( जिससे contains Reno ), कार्सन नगर, Douglas County, and lincoln काउंटी.
the अन्य counties theoretically allow brothel prostitution, but some of ये काउंटी currently have no active brothels.
Street prostitution, `` pandering, '' and living off of the proceeds of a वेश्या remain illegal अंतर्गत Nevada law, as elsewhere in the देश.
As with अन्य countries, prostitution in the संयुक्त राज्य can be विभाजित into तीन broad श्रेणी : street prostitution, वेश्यालय prostitution, और escort वेश्यावृति.
the East coast of the संयुक्त राज्य, also ज्ञात as the Eastern Seaboard or the Atlantic seaboard और commonly shortened to East Coast, refers to the easternmost coast of the United राज्य along the अटलांटिक Ocean.
the states जिससे have shoreline on the ईस्ट Coast are, इससे उत्तर to south, the U.S. states of Maine, New हैम्पशायर, Massachusetts, Rhode द्वीप, कनेक्टिकट, नई York, नई जर्सी, Delaware, मेरीलैंड, वर्जिनिया, North कैरोलिना, दक्षिण कैरोलिना, जॉर्जिया, और फ्लोरिडा.
रिचर्ड Milhous निक्सन ( जनवरी 9, 1913 – April 22, 1994 ) was the 37th President of the संयुक्त राज्य, serving इससे 1969 to 1974, when he became the तभी president to resign the office.
निक्सन था previously served as a रिपब्लिकन u.S. प्रतिनिधि और सीनेटर इससे कैलिफ़ोर्निया and as the 36th Vice अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य इससे 1953 to 1961.
Nixon थी born in yorba Linda, California.
he ग्रैजुएट इससे Whittier College in 1934 and ड्यूक University School of Law in 1937, returning to कैलिफ़ोर्निया to अभ्यास law.
he और his बीवी, पैट Nixon, moved to वॉशिंगटन to work लिये the संघीय सरकारी in 1942.
he subsequently served in the संयुक्त States नेवी during संसार युद्ध II.
Nixon was निर्वाचित in कैलिफ़ोर्निया to the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि in 1946 और to the सीनेट in 1950.
His pursuit of the alger hiss मामला स्थापित his प्रतिष्ठा as a leading anti-communist, और elevated उसे to नेशनल prominence.
he was the कार्यशील mate of ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर, the रिपब्लिकन Party अध्यक्षीय nominee in the 1952 election.
निक्सन served for आठ years as वाइस president.
He waged an unsuccessful अध्यक्षीय campaign in 1960, narrowly losing to जॉन F. Kennedy, and lost a रेस for Governor of कैलिफ़ोर्निया in 1962.
In 1968, he भागा again for the प्रेसिडेंसी और was elected.
हालांकि Nixon initially escalated अमेरिका 's भागीदारी in the Vietnam War, he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973.
Nixon 's विज़िट to the लोगों 's Republic of चीन in 1972 खोली राजनयिक संबंध between the two nations, and he initiated détente और the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with the Soviet संघ the same year.
domestically, उसके प्रशासन generally embraced नीतियों कि transferred शक्ति इससे वॉशिंगटन to the राज्य.
among अन्य things, he शुभारम्भ पहलों to लड़ो कर्कट और illegal drugs, imposed मजदूरी and दाम नियंत्रण, enforced desegregation of कुछ Southern schools, और established the Environmental सुरक्षा एजेंसी.
Though he presided over the lunar landings beginning with अपोलो 11, he scaled back मानवयुक्त स्पेस exploration.
he was re-elected by a landslide in 1972.
निक्सन 's दूसरी term saw an अरब आयल embargo, the इस्तीफा of his वाइस president, spiro Agnew, और a continuing series of खुलासे about the Watergate scandal और अन्य misconduct by सदस्यों of the administration.
The कांड escalated, costing निक्सन much of उसके राजनैतिक support, और on अगस्त 9, 1974, he resigned in the फेस of लगभग निश्चित impeachment और हटाना इससे office.
After उसके resignation, he controversially प्राप्त a pardon issued by his successor, जेराल्ड घाट.
in रिटायरमेंट, Nixon 's work as an elder statesman, authoring several books और undertaking अनेक foreign यात्राएँ, helped to rehabilitate उसके पब्लिक image.
he suffered a debilitating स्ट्रोक on अप्रैल 18, 1994, and died four दिनों later at the age of 81.
sertraline hydrochloride ( व्यापार names zoloft, Lustral ) is an antidepressant of the चयनात्मक serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( ssri ) क्लास.
it थी introduced to the market by फाइजर in 1991.
sertraline is primarily विहित for प्रमुख depressive विकार in वयस्क outpatients as खूब as obsessive–compulsive, दहशत, और social anxiety disorders in both वयस्कों and children.
In 2011, it थी the second-most prescribed antidepressant on the U.S. retail मार्केट, साथ 37,208,000 prescriptions.
The efficacy of sertraline लिये depression is similar to that of older tricyclic antidepressants, लकिन its पक्ष effects are much less pronounced.
मतभेद साथ नए antidepressants are subtler and भी ज़्यादातर confined to side प्रभाव.
Evidence suggests कि sertraline may कार्य बेहतर than fluoxetine ( prozac ) लिये कुछ subtypes of अवसाद.
Treatment of दहशत disorder साथ sertraline परिणाम in a significant decrease of the number of दहशत हमले and in improved विशेषता of जीवन.
For obsessive-compulsive disorder, sertraline is not as प्रभावी as संज्ञानात्मक behavioral चिकित्सा ; the बेहतरीन परिणाम have महरूम हासिल by combining these दो उपचार.
हालांकि स्वीकृत लिये सोशल phobia और posttraumatic stress विकार, sertraline leads to only modest सुधार in ये शर्तें.
sertraline भी alleviates the लक्षण of premenstrual dysphoric disorder and can be used in sub-therapeutic doses or intermittently for its treatment.
Sertraline shares the common पक्ष प्रभाव and contraindications of other ssris, with ऊँची rates of nausea, अतिसार, अनिद्रा, and sexual side effects ; however, it करता not cause वज़न लाभ, और its effects on both cognition and vigilance are relatively mild.
In pregnant women लेने sertraline, the ड्रग was उपस्थित in significant एकाग्रता in fetal रक्त, and थी भी संबद्ध with a उच्चतर रेट of various जनम defects.
similarly to other antidepressants, the use of sertraline लिये अवसाद may be associated with a उच्चतर रेट of suicidality.
The Five Heartbeats is a 1991 musical drama film directed by रॉबर्ट टाउनसेंड, जो co-wrote the script साथ Keenan Ivory Wayans.
Distributed by 20th सदी फॉक्स, the फिल्मी 's प्रमुख डाल includes टाउनसेंड, Michael Wright, Leon रॉबिन्सन, हैरी J. Lennix, Tico कुएं, Harold Nicholas of the Nicholas भाइयो, and diahann Carroll.
the प्लाट of the film ( जिससे is loosely based on the lives of several कलाकारों : The Dells, the Temptations, चार Tops, विल्सन पिकेट, James भूरा, फ्रेंकी Lymon, sam cooke and अन्य ) फ़ॉलो the तीन दशक career of the R & b vocal समूह The पाँच Heartbeats.
The film depicts the rise and fall of a motown inspired soul act through the आँखें of the फिल्मी 's प्रमुख समर्थक, Donald `` बतख '' Matthews ( portrayed by टाउनसेंड ), जो serves as a narrator throughout the film.
However, a बहुमत of the सिनेमा is प्रस्तुत in a लगातार time लकीर as opposed to traditional flash backs.
The फिल्मी शामिल a significant amount of original म्यूज़िक conceived by विभिन्न artists लिये the फिल्मी 's soundtrack, including singles ऐसे as `` a Heart Is a House for प्रेम ``, `` We Have n't Finished yet '', and `` Nothing लकिन प्रेम ''.
the film थी released to सबसे उत्तर American audiences कूच 29, 1991 however it was नहीं बना available to ऑडियंस in other continents जबतक 2002 when a dvd थी released prior to another DVD release in 2006 लिये the फिल्मी 's 15th anniversary.
The movie received मिश्रित reviews from आलोचकों.
सचिवालय ( March 30, 1970 – October 4, 1989 ) थी an अमरीकी Thoroughbred racehorse कि in 1973 became the पहला U.S. Triple Crown चैंपियन in 25 सालो.
He नियत race रिकॉर्ड in सब three कार्यक्रम in the Series — the केंटकी डर्बी ( 1:59.4 ), the preakness Stakes ( 1:53 ), और the Belmont stakes ( 2:24 ) — रिकॉर्ड that स्टिल स्टैंड आज.
he is considered to be एक of the महानतम thoroughbreds of all time.
In 1999, ईएसपीएन क्रमित सचिवालय the 35th best खिलाड़ी of the 20th सदी, the highest रैंकिंग racehorse on the list url_http.
He ranked second behind man o ' युद्ध in The Blood-Horse 's सूची of the Top 100 u.S. Racehorses of the 20th Century.
सचिवालय was sired by बिंदास Ruler out of Somethingroyal, by Princequillo.
He was foaled at The Meadow in Caroline काउंटी, Virginia.
जैसे his famous पूर्ववर्ती Man o ' युद्ध, Secretariat was a large chestnut टट्टू and थी given the same nickname, `` बिग रेड. ''
Secretariat 's grandsire, Nasrullah, is भी the great-great-grandsire of 1977 Triple Crown विजेता सिएटल slew.
स्वामित्व by Penny chenery, he थी trained by lucien laurin and mainly ridden by कनाडाई jockey रॉन turcotte, साथ with apprentice jockey Paul फेलिसियानो ( पहला दो races ), और दिग्गज Eddie Maple ( last रेस ).
he raced in chenery 's Meadow Stable 's blue and श्वेत checkered रंगों और his groom was Eddie Sweat.
सचिवालय stood लगभग tall, और weighed, साथ a 75-inch girth, in उसके racing प्रधान.
a typical 12 V, 40 ah lead-acid car battery
an ऑटोमोटिव battery is a type of rechargeable battery कि supplies electric उर्जा to an automobile.
प्रायः this refers to an SLI बैटरी ( starting, lighting, ignition ) to शक्ति the starter मोटर, the lights, और the प्रज्वलन प्रणाली of a vehicle’s engine.
ऑटोमोटिव SLI बैटरी हैं usually lead-acid type, and हैं बना of छह galvanic कोशिकाएं in श्रेणी to provide a 12 volt system.
प्रत्येक cell provides 2.1 volts for a कुल of 12.6 वोल्ट at पूरा charge.
Heavy vehicles such as राजमार्ग trucks or tractors, प्रायः equipped साथ diesel इंजन, may have two बैटरी in श्रेणी लिये a 24 वोल्ट प्रणाली, or may have समानांतर स्ट्रिंग्स of batteries.
Lead-acid बैटरी हैं made up of प्लेटों of सीसे और पृथक plates of lead डाइऑक्साइड, जिससे are submerged into an electrolyte solution of परिचय 38 % sulfuric acid और 62 % जल.
इस कल्याणकारी a chemical प्रतिक्रिया कि रिलीज electrons, allowing उन्हें to प्रवाह through conductors to उपज विद्युत.
As the battery discharges, the acid of the electrolyte प्रतिक्रियाएँ with the सामग्री of the plates, changing their surface to lead sulfate.
When the battery is recharged, the chemical reaction is reversed : the सीसे sulfate reforms into lead डाइऑक्साइड और lead.
साथ the प्लेटों लौटी to उनके असली कंडीशन, the प्रक्रम may अभी be repeated.
बैटरी recycling of ऑटोमोटिव batteries reduces the need for resources required for manufacture of new बैटरी, diverts toxic lead इससे landfills, और prevents रिस्क of improper निपटान.
Full-time नियुक्ति is नियुक्ति in which a व्यक्ति works a न्यूनतम क्रमांक of hours पारिभाषित as such by his/her नियोक्ता.
Full-time employment प्रायः आता with लाभ that हैं not typically offered to part-time, अस्थाई, or flexible workers, such as annual छोड़, sickleave, and स्वास्थ्य बीमे.
Full-time कार्य are often माना careers.
They generally pay more than part-time कार्य, and usually carry अधिक hours per week.
The मेला मजदूर Standards अधिनियम ( FLSA ) does नहीं define full-time employment or part-time नियुक्ति.
This is a पदार्थ generally to be determined by the employer ( us विभाग of मजदूर ).
The definition by employer can vary and is generally प्रकाशित in a कम्पनी 's कर्मचारी हैंडबुक.
Companies commonly आवश्यकता from 30–35 or 40 hours per week to be defined as full-time और therefore योग्य for benefits.
full-time status varies between company and is often आधारित on the shift the कर्मचारी जरूर कार्य during प्रत्येक work week.
The `` standard '' work week consists of five eight-hour days, commonly served between 9:00am to 5:00PM totaling 40 घंटों.
जबकि a four-day सप्ताह generally consists of four ten-hour days ; it may also consist of as छोटी as nine hours लिये a कुल of a 36 hour work week.
twelve-hour शिफ्ट are often three days प्रति week, जबतक the company has the intention of paying out the employee overtime.
ओवरटाइम is legally सशुल्क out anytime an कर्मचारी works more than 40 hours प्रति week.
The विधिक न्यूनतम for overtime starts at Base अदा + one-half.
The increased payout is माना to compensate थोड़ा लिये the increased थकान which a person अनुभवों on such long शिफ्ट.
Shifts can also be very irregular, as in retail, लकिन are स्टिल full-time if the required number of घंटों is reached.
वहीँ हैं some परिस्थितियों जहाँ a person जो needs full-time work is dropped to part-time, which is sometimes a रूप of constructive dismissal to avoid paying unemployment benefits to a laid-off कार्यकर्ता.
seahorse is the शीर्षक दिए to 54 species of समुद्री fish in the genus Hippocampus.
`` Hippocampus '' comes from the प्राचीन यूनानी hippos meaning `` horse '' and kampos meaning `` समुद्र monster ''.
the Controlled Substances Act ( सीएसए ) was enacted into law by the Congress of the संयुक्त राज्य as शीर्षक II of the Comprehensive ड्रग Abuse Prevention और कंट्रोल अधिनियम of 1970.
the CSA is the संघीय U.S. ड्रग नीति under which the manufacture, importation, कब्ज़ा, use and वितरण of निश्चित substances is regulated.
The Act also served as the national implementing legislation for the सिंगल सम्मेलन on narcotic दवाएँ.
the विधान created five Schedules ( classifications ), with varying योग्यता for a पदार्थ to be included in प्रत्येक.
दो संघीय एजेंसियों, the ड्रग Enforcement Administration and the Food और Drug Administration, determine जिससे substances are added to or removed इससे the विभिन्न schedules, though the statute passed by कॉंग्रेस निर्मित the initial लिस्टिंग, और Congress has sometimes अनुसूचित other substances through विधान ऐसे as the hillory J. farias and सामन्था Reid Date-Rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of 2000, which placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in अनुसूची I. Classification निर्णय हैं जरूरी to be बना on मापदण्ड including potential for गाली ( an अपरिभाषित पद ), currently स्वीकृत चिकित्सा use in treatment in the United राज्य, और international treaties.
Maya numerals
माया numerals are a vigesimal ( base - बीस ) numeral प्रणाली प्रयुक्त by the Pre-Columbian Maya सभ्यता.
The numerals हैं made up of तीन symbols ; zero ( shell shape ), एक ( a dot ) and five ( a bar ).
For उदाहरण, तेरह is written as तीन dots in a आड़ा row ऊपर दो horizontal लाइनों stacked ऊपर each other.
lyndon Baines जॉनसन ( August 27, 1908 – January 22, 1973 ), often referred to as lbj, was the 36th President of the United States ( 1963–1969 ), a स्थिति he assumed after उसके सेवा as the 37th वाइस अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States ( 1961–1963 ).
he is one of only चार people जो परोसा in all four निर्वाचित federal offices of the United राज्य : Representative, सीनेटर, Vice अध्यक्ष, और President.
Johnson, a डेमोक्रेट from Texas, परोसा as a United राज्य प्रतिनिधि from 1937–1949 and as a सीनेटर इससे 1949–1961, including six years as United States Senate Majority नेता, दो as Senate अल्पसंख्यक Leader और two as Senate Majority Whip.
After campaigning unsuccessfully for the Democratic नामांकन in 1960, Johnson थी पूछा by जॉन F. कैनेडी to be his कार्यशील mate for the 1960 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव.
जॉनसन succeeded to the presidency following the assassination of जॉन F. कैनेडी on November 22, 1963, समाप्त Kennedy 's term and थी elected President in उसके own सही, winning by a large हाशिया over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 चुनाव.
Johnson थी greatly समर्थित by the Democratic Party and as President, he थी responsible for डिजाइनिंग the `` Great Society `` विधान कि शामिल कानून that upheld civil अधिकारों, पब्लिक broadcasting, medicare, Medicaid, environmental protection, aid to शिक्षा, और उसके `` War on Poverty. ''
Johnson was renowned for उसके domineering personality और the `` Johnson उपचार, '' उसके coercion of शक्तिशाली राजनेता in order to अग्रिम विधान.
Meanwhile, जॉनसन escalated अमरीकी involvement in the वियतनाम युद्ध, from 16,000 अमरीकी advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 कॉम्बैट सैनिकों in जल्दी 1968, as American casualties soared और the सलाम process bogged down.
The भागीदारी stimulated a large angry antiwar movement आधारित विशेषकर on विश्वविद्यालयों campuses in the u.S. and abroad.
गर्मियाँ riots broke आउट in सबसे प्रमुख शहरों after 1965, and अपराधों rates soared, as his प्रतिद्वंद्वियों उठाया demands for `` विधि और order '' policies.
The Democratic Party विभाजित in multiple feuding गिरोहों, और after Johnson किया poorly in the 1968 नई हैम्पशायर primary, he ended उसके bid for reelection.
रिपब्लिकन Richard निक्सन थी निर्वाचित to succeed उसे.
Historians argue that Johnson 's प्रेसिडेंसी चिह्नित the peak of modern उदारतावाद in the United राज्य after the नई Deal era.
Johnson is ranked favorably by some इतिहासकारों because of उसके domestic policies.
Progesterone also known as P4 ( pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione ) is a c-21 स्टेरॉयड हार्मोन involved in the मादा menstrual साईकिल, pregnancy ( supports gestation ) और embryogenesis of इंसानो and other species.
Progesterone belongs to a class of हार्मोन पुकारा progestogens, और is the प्रमुख naturally occurring इंसान progestogen.
Big बर्ड is a protagonist of the children 's television दिखाएँ Sesame Street.
officially performed by Caroll Spinney चूंकि 1969, he is an eight-foot two-inch ( 249 cm ) लम्बा bright primrose-yellow बर्ड.
he can roller स्केट, बर्फ skate, dance, गाओ, लिखें काव्य, draw और even सवारी a unicycle.
लकिन despite इस wide array of talents, he is prone to बारंबार misunderstandings, on एक अवसर भी गायन the alphabet as one बिग long word ( इससे the song called `` abc-def-ghi, '' pronounced `` ab-keddef-gajihkel-monop-quristuv-wixyz '' ), pondering कया it could ever mean.
He lives in a विशाल nest behind the 123 तिल गली brownstone and रै a टेडी भालू named Radar.
Webtrends is a निजी company headquartered in Portland, Oregon, संयुक्त राज्य.
It provides web, social, and मोबाईल analytics और other तन्त्र समाधान सम्बन्धित to विपणन प्रज्ञा.
the कम्पनी was संस्थापित in 1993 और now serves अधिक than 10,000 विशाल और छोटी कड़s. < संदर्भ name='Intelligent Enterprise 2007-05-21 ' >
the Second Crusade ( 1145–1149 ) थी the दूसरी major crusade शुभारम्भ इससे यूरोपीय.
The Second Crusade was started in जवाब to the पतन of the County of Edessa the पिछला साल to the forces of zengi.
the काउंटी था been संस्थापित दौरान the First crusade ( 1096–1099 ) by Baldwin of boulogne in 1098.
जबकि it थी the पहला जेहादी राज्य to be founded, it थी भी the first to fall.
the दूसरी Crusade थी घोषित by पोप Eugene iii, और was the first of the क्रूसेड to be led by यूरोपीय किंग्स, namely Louis सात of फ़्रांस और Conrad iii of Germany, with help from a number of अन्य यूरोपीय nobles.
the सेना of the two किंग्स marched separately across Europe.
After क्रासिंग बीज़ान्टिन territory into Anatolia, दोनो armies यहूद separately पराजित by the Seljuq Turks.
the main पश्चिमी ईसाई source, odo of deuil, और Syriac ईसाई sources claim that the बीज़ान्टिन सम्राट मैनुएल i Comnenus secretly hindered the crusaders ' progress, particularly in Anatolia where he is alleged to have deliberately ordered Turks to attack उन्हें.
Louis and Conrad and the remnants of उनके सेना reached Jerusalem और, in 1148, participated in an ill-advised आक्रमण on Damascus.
the crusade in the east was a failure for the crusaders and a ग्रेट victory for the मुसलमान.
It would ultimately have a कुंजी influence on the fall of Jerusalem और give rise to the तीसरा Crusade at the end of the 12th century.
The तभी कामयाबी of the दूसरी Crusade came to a combined force of 13,000 Flemish, Frisian, नॉर्मन, अंग्रेज़ी, Scottish, and German crusaders in 1147.
यात्राएं from England, by ship, to the पावन Land, the army stopped और helped the छोटी ( 7,000 ) पुर्तगाली फौज in the capture of Lisbon, expelling इसके मूरिश occupants.
wal-mart Stores, Inc. ( ), branded as Walmart, is an अमरीकी बहुराष्ट्रीय खुदरा निगम that runs जंजीरों of विशाल छूट department स्टोर्स और गोदाम स्टोर्स.
The company is the world 's तीसरा largest पब्लिक निगम, according to the Fortune Global 500 सूची in 2012, the biggest private नियोक्ता in the संसार with over दो लाख कर्मचारी, and is the largest रिटेलर in the world.
walmart remains a family-owned business, as the कम्पनी is नियंत्रित by the वाल्टन परिवार, जो own a 48 percent stake in Walmart.
It is भी एक of the संसार 's most मूल्यवान companies.
The company was संस्थापित by Sam वाल्टन in 1962, incorporated on October 31, 1969, और सरेआम traded on the New York भण्डार एक्सचेंज in 1972.
it is headquartered in Bentonville, अरकंसास.
Walmart is also the largest किराना retailer in the संयुक्त States.
in 2009, it उत्पन्न 51 प्रतिशत of इसके us $ 258 billion sales in the u.S. from किराना कारोबार.
It also owns और operates the sam 's क्लबों retail warehouses in North America.
By 1988, wal-mart थी the most profitable रिटेलर in the US, और by नवम्बर 1990, it outsold K-mart.
By 1991 it outsold सियर्स in retail, बनाना it अमेरिका 's largest retailer, a distinction it स्टिल holds.
Walmart रै 8,500 स्टोर्स in 15 देशों, अंतर्गत 55 अलग names.
The कम्पनी operates अंतर्गत the Walmart नाम in the United States, including the 50 राज्य और प्यूर्टो Rico.
It operates in Mexico as Walmex, in the United Kingdom as asda, in जापानी as seiyu, और in इण्डिया as Best दाम.
it रै wholly स्वामित्व operations in अर्जेंटीना, ब्राज़ील, और Canada.
Walmart 's investments outside उत्तर अमेरिका have had मिश्रित results : its परिचालन in the संयुक्त किंगडम, दक्षिण America, and चीन are अत्यधिक कामयाब, whereas ventures in जर्मनी और दक्षिण कोरियाई यहूद unsuccessful.
रॉबर्ट William Gary मूर ( 4 अप्रैल 1952 – 6 फ़रवरी 2011 ), was a उत्तरी Irish संगीतकार, सबसे widely recognised as a सिंगर और guitarist.
in a career dating वापस to the 1960s, Moore निभाई साथ कलाकारों सहित फिल lynott and Brian downey during his teens, leading उसे to memberships साथ the आयरिश bands Skid Row and पतला lizzy on तीन पृथक occasions.
मूर साझा the स्टेज with ऐसे ब्लूज़ and चट्टान luminaries as b.b. King, Albert किंग, Colosseum II, George हैरिसन और ग्रेग Lake, as well as having a successful सोलो करियर.
he guested on a number of albums recorded by ऊँची profile संगीतकारों, including a कैमियो appearance playing the सीसे गिटार सोलो on `` She 's my Baby `` इससे traveling Wilburys आवाज़. 3.
an example of रैक आरोहित सर्वर
a वेब hosting service is a प्रकार of अंतरजाल होस्टिंग सेवा कि allows individuals and organizations to make their जालस्थल accessible via the World चौड़ी Web.
वेब होस्ट are companies कि provide space on a सर्वर स्वामित्व or leased लिये उपयोग by क्लाइंट, as खूब as providing अंतरजाल कनेक्टिविटी, typically in a data बीच.
Web होस्ट can also provide आंकड़ा center स्पेस and connectivity to the अंतरजाल for अन्य servers located in उनके आंकड़ा center, पुकारा colocation, भी ज्ञात as Housing in लैटिन अमेरिका or France.
The scope of web होस्टिंग services varies greatly.
The most मौलिक is web पेज और small-scale संचिका hosting, where files can be uploaded via संचिका Transfer प्रोटोकॉल ( एफटीपी ) or a Web interface.
the फाइलें हैं प्रायः delivered to the Web `` as is '' or साथ minimal प्रसंस्करण.
अनेक अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाताओं ( ISPs ) offer this सेवा free to सदस्य.
individuals और संगठन may also obtain वेब page hosting इससे alternative सेवा providers.
निजी वेब साईट होस्टिंग is typically free, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
कारोबार web site hosting often has a उच्चतर expense depending upon the आकार and प्रकार of the जालस्थल.
Single पेज hosting is generally sufficient लिये personal web pages.
A जटिल site calls लिये a more comprehensive package कि provides डेटाबेस support and अनुप्रयोग development platforms ( e.g. PHP, जावा, माणिक्य on Rails, ColdFusion, or asp.net ).
ये facilities allow ग्राहक to लिखें or install scripts for अनुप्रयोग जैसे forums and content management.
Also, Secure Sockets Layer ( SSL ) is typically प्रयुक्त for e-commerce.
the host may भी provide an interface or control panel for managing the Web सर्वर and installing scripts, as खूब as other मौड्यूल and सेवा अनुप्रयोग जैसे e-mail.
Some होस्ट specialize in certain software or services ( e.g. e-commerce ), which हैं commonly प्रयुक्त by larger companies कि outsource संजाल infrastructure.
Obstetrics ( इससे the लैटिन obstare, `` to stand by '' ) is the medical specialty dealing साथ the care of all महिलाओं 's reproductive tracts और their children during गर्भावस्था ( prenatal period ), प्रसव and the postnatal period.
Many obstetricians are भी स्त्रीरोग, meaning they perform in दोनो specialties.
in the United राज्य, these physicians are commonly referred to as OB/GYNs.
the राइट भाइयो, Orville ( अगस्त 19, 1871 – January 30, 1948 ) और Wilbur ( April 16, 1867 – May 30, 1912 ), were two अमरीकी brothers, आविष्कारक, and aviation pioneers who यहूद credited साथ inventing और भवन the संसार 's पहला कामयाब airplane और making the first नियंत्रित, powered and sustained heavier-than-air human flight, on दिसम्बर 17, 1903.
From 1905 to 1907, the भाइयो विकसित उनके flying machine into the first व्यावहारिक fixed-wing aircraft.
Although not the पहला to निर्माण and fly experimental aircraft, the राइट brothers यहूद the first to invent aircraft नियंत्रण कि made fixed-wing powered उड़ान संभावित.
The brothers ' fundamental भेदन थी their invention of three-axis कंट्रोल, जिससे सक्रिय the पायलट to steer the aircraft effectively और to maintain its संतुलन.
This method became मानक and remains मानक on fixed-wing aircraft of all kinds.
From the beginning of their aeronautical work, the Wright brothers focused on विकासशील a विश्वसनीय method of पायलट कंट्रोल as the कुंजी to solving `` the उड़ती problem ''.
इस दृष्टिकोण differed significantly इससे अन्य experimenters of the समय who put अधिक जोर on developing powerful इंजन.
Using a छोटी homebuilt wind टनल, the wrights भी collected अधिक सटीक data than कोई before, enabling उन्हें to डिज़ाइन and निर्माण wings and propellers that were more कुशल than कोई पहले.
Their first u.S. पेटेंट, 821,393, did not अर्जी invention of a flying machine, लकिन बल्कि, the आविष्कार of a प्रणाली of aerodynamic कंट्रोल कि manipulated a उड़ती यंत्र 's सतहों.
They gained the mechanical skills अनिवार्य for उनके success by working लिये years in their shop with मुद्रण presses, bicycles, मोटर्स, and अन्य machinery.
Their कार्य साथ bicycles in particular बहकावे उनके विश्वास that an अस्थिर vehicle जैसे a उड़ती machine could be नियंत्रित और balanced with practice.
From 1900 जबतक उनके first powered फ़्लाइट in लेट 1903, they conducted extensive glider परीक्षण that भी विकसित उनके skills as pilots.
उनके bicycle दूकान कर्मचारी Charlie Taylor became an important part of the टोली, भवन उनके first वायुयान इंजन in बंद सहयोग with the भाइयो.
the Wright भाइयो ' status as inventors of the airplane has महरूम subject to counter-claims by various parties.
much controversy persists over the many स्पर्धा claims of जल्दी aviators.
America 's अगला शीर्ष Model, साईकिल 12 is the twelfth cycle of अमेरिका 's अगला Top मॉडल और the sixth ऋतु to air on The cw संजाल.
It premiered on March 4, 2009.
The cycle 's कैच phrase is `` Get In The Fold. ''
the साईकिल 's promotional song is महिला गागा 's `` the कीर्ति ''.
the पुरस्कार for इस साईकिल are:
a मॉडलिंग अनुबंध with Elite मॉडल प्रबन्धन.
A fashion spread और cover in सत्रह.
a 100,000 contract with covergirl cosmetics.
The first हाफ of the cycle took place in New यॉर्क नगर, moving the show back इससे Los Angeles पिछला season.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय गंतव्य for इस cycle is São पाउलो, Brazil, the श्रेणी पहला visit to दक्षिण अमेरिका.
The number of girls थी घटाया to 13, the first time चूंकि साईकिल 9, बाद being कायम at 14 in the पिछला two cycles.
This थी the last समय Paulina Porizkova participated as judge.
the winner was 20-year-old teyona Anderson इससे woodstown, नई Jersey.
इस season averaged 4.35 लाख दर्शक प्रति एपीसोड.
exxon Mobil निगम, or ExxonMobil, is an अमरीकी बहुराष्ट्रीय oil and gas corporation headquartered in Irving, Texas, United राज्य.
it is a सीधा descendant of जॉन D. Rockefeller 's मानक आयल कम्पनी, और थी formed on November 30, 1999, by the merger of exxon और mobil.
it is संबद्ध with Imperial Oil जिससे operates in कनाडा.
exxonmobil is the संसार 's largest company by आय और in 2013, became the largest सरेआम traded कम्पनी by market capitalization in the संसार.
the company is ranked # 5 globally in Forbes Global 2000 list in 2013.
exxon mobil 's reserves were 72 billion oil-equivalent barrels at the end of 2007 और, at तब ( 2007 ) दरों of production, are expected to last over 14 सालो.
With 37 आयल refineries in 21 देशों constituting a combined रोज़ शोधन क्षमता of, Exxon Mobil is the largest refiner in the संसार, a title कि थी भी संबद्ध with मानक आयल since इसके incorporation in 1870.
exxonmobil is the largest of the संसार 's supermajors साथ रोज़ उत्पादन of 3.921 लाख BOE ( barrels of oil समतुल्य ).
In 2008, this थी approximately 3 % of world production, which is कम than अनेक of the largest state-owned petroleum companies.
जब ranked by आयल और गैस reserves it is 14th in the संसार साथ less than 1 % of the कुल.
a 2012 article in The रोज़ टेलीग्राफ says कि exxonmobil has `` grown into एक of the planet’s most hated corporations, समर्थ to determine अमरीकी foreign policy and the fate of संपूर्ण राष्ट्र ''.
in शर्तें of its पर्यावरणीय रिकार्ड, exxonmobil increasingly drills in terrains leased to उन्हें by dictatorships, ऐसे as those in Chad और भूमध्यरेखीय Guinea.
Lee Raymond, the corporation’s मुख्य कार्यपालिका until 2005, was `` notoriously sceptical परिचय climate change and disliked government interference at कोई level ''.
The company was widely criticized for इसके slow जवाब to cleaning इसके 1989 Valdez oil spill in Alaska.
इस article is about the ग्लोब Theatre of शेक्सपियर.
लिये the modern पुनर्निर्माण in London, देखिए Shakespeare 's Globe.
लिये other uses, see Globe थिएटर ( disambiguation ).
the Globe थिएटर थी a थिएटर in लंदन संबद्ध with William Shakespeare.
it was built in 1599 by शेक्सपियर 's playing company, the रब Chamberlain 's Men, on land स्वामित्व by Thomas Brend and inherited by उसके बेटे, निकोलस brend और grandson सर मैथ्यू brend, और थी नष्ट by आग on 29 जून 1613.
A दूसरी Globe Theatre was built on the वही साईट by जून 1614 और बंद in 1642.
a आधुनिक पुनर्निर्माण of the Globe, नामित `` Shakespeare 's Globe ``, opened in 1997 approximately इससे the site of the असली theatre.
It 's a अद्भुत जीवन is a 1946 American क्रिसमस drama फिल्मी उत्पादित और directed by Frank capra, आधारित on the short story `` the Greatest तोहफा ``, which Philip Van Doren stern लिखा in 1939 और privately प्रकाशित in 1945.
The film is considered एक of the सबसे loved films in अमरीकी cinema and has become परंपरागत देखने during the Christmas season, alongside popular classics ऐसे as चार्ल्स डिकेंस ' a क्रिसमस Carol.
the film सितारों James Stewart as George बेली, a man जो रै दिए up his सपनो in अनुक्रम to सहायता others और जिनकी निकट suicide on क्रिसमस संध्या brings about the हस्तक्षेप of उसके संरक्षक angel, Clarence Odbody ( हेनरी Travers ).
Clarence shows जार्ज all the जीवनदान he has छुआ और how अलग जीवन in उसके जातियाँ of Bedford Falls होता be था he never महरूम born.
despite initially performing poorly at the बक्सा दफ्तर due to ऊँची production costs और stiff competition at the time of इसके release, the film has come to be regarded as a क्लासिक and is a staple of क्रिसमस टेलीविज़न around the संसार.
Theatrically, the फिल्मी 's break-even पाइंट was दरअसल $ 6.3 लाख, लगभग twice the उत्पादन लागत, a figure it never came close to achieving in its आरंभिक रिलीज.
an appraisal in 2006 reported : `` हालांकि it थी not the पूरा box दफ्तर failure कि today everyone believes... it थी initially a प्रमुख disappointment and confirmed, at least to the studios, that capra थी no longer capable of turning out the populist सुविधाएँ कि बना his films the must-see, money-making कार्यक्रम they एकबार यहूद. ''
the film थी nominated लिये पाँच Oscars and has been recognized by the American Film Institute as एक of the 100 best American films ever made, रखकर क्रमांक 11 on इसके आरंभिक 1998 greatest फिल्म list, and होता भी प्लेस number one on इसके सूची of the most inspirational American films of सब समय.
Data Warehouse अवलोकन
in कम्प्यूटिंग, a आंकड़ा warehouse or एंटरप्राइज़ आंकड़ा गोदाम ( dw, DWH, or edw ) is a डेटाबेस प्रयुक्त for reporting and data विश्लेषण.
it is a सेंट्रल repository of data जिससे is निर्मित by integrating आंकड़ा इससे एक or more disparate स्त्रोत.
आंकड़ा warehouses स्टोर वर्तमान as well as ऐतिहासिक data और हैं प्रयुक्त लिये बनाना trending reports लिये वरिष्ठ management reporting such as annual और त्रैमासिक comparisons.
The data भंडारित in the warehouse are अपलोड इससे the operational प्रणालियों ( ऐसे as marketing, बिक्री etc., दिखाया in the figure to the सही ).
The आंकड़ा may pass through an operational data store लिये additional operations before they are used in the dw लिये reporting.
the ठेठ ETL -based आंकड़ा गोदाम उपयोग स्टेजिंग, आंकड़ा संयोजन, और access layers to house इसके key कृत्यों.
The स्टेजिंग परत or स्टेजिंग database stores raw data निकाली from प्रत्येक of the disparate सोर्स आंकड़ा प्रणालियों.
the integration layer integrates the disparate data sets by transforming the आंकड़ा from the staging layer often storing इस transformed data in an operational आंकड़ा स्टोर ( ODS ) database.
the एकीकृत data हैं then स्थानांतरित to yet another database, प्रायः called the data गोदाम database, where the आंकड़ा is arranged into hierarchical समूह often called आयाम और into तथ्य and कुल तथ्य.
The combination of तथ्य और dimensions is sometimes called a star schema.
the access परत helps users retrieve आंकड़ा.
a आंकड़ा warehouse constructed इससे an integrated आंकड़ा सोर्स systems does not आवश्यकता ETL, staging databases, or operational आंकड़ा store databases.
The integrated आंकड़ा source प्रणालियों may be considered to be a भाग of a वितरित operational data स्टोर layer.
Data संघ विधि or आंकड़ा virtualization विधि may be used to अभिगम the वितरित एकीकृत source आंकड़ा systems to consolidate और aggregate आंकड़ा सीधे into the आंकड़ा गोदाम डेटाबेस टेबल.
Unlike the ETL-based आंकड़ा warehouse, the integrated सोर्स आंकड़ा प्रणालियों और the data warehouse are सब एकीकृत चूंकि वहीँ is no परिवर्तन of आयामी or reference आंकड़ा.
इस एकीकृत आंकड़ा warehouse architecture supports the drill bas इससे the aggregate data of the data गोदाम to the transactional आंकड़ा of the एकीकृत सोर्स data प्रणालियों.
आंकड़ा warehouses can be subdivided into आंकड़ा marts.
Data marts स्टोर subsets of data इससे a warehouse.
This definition of the आंकड़ा warehouse focuses on आंकड़ा भंडार.
the प्रमुख सोर्स of the आंकड़ा is cleaned, transformed, cataloged and made उपलब्धियाँ लिये उपयोग by managers और other कारोबार पेशेवर लिये data mining, online analytical प्रसंस्करण, मार्केट research और निर्णय support ( Marakas & o'brien 2009 ).
however, the means to retrieve और analyze आंकड़ा, to extract, transform and load आंकड़ा, और to manage the data शब्दकोष हैं also considered अनिवार्य components of a data warehousing system.
Many references to data warehousing उपयोग इस broader context.
Thus, an expanded परिभाषा लिये data warehousing includes कारोबार intelligence टूल्स, tools to निकालें, transform और लोड आंकड़ा into the repository, और टूल्स to manage and retrieve metadata.
पोर्टलैंड स्टोन quarry on the आइल of पोर्टलैंड, England
an abandoned construction कुल पाषाण near Adelaide, दक्षिण ऑस्ट्रेलिया
a पाषाण is a type of open-pit mine from which rock or minerals हैं extracted.
खदानों are generally used for extracting building materials, ऐसे as आयाम स्टोन, निर्माण aggregate, riprap, sand, and gravel.
They हैं often collocated with कंक्रीट and asphalt पौधे due to the आवश्यकता for large amounts of कुल in those सामग्री.
खोलें खानों that produce minerals are typically referred to as खोलें गड्ढे खानों.
The word पाषाण can include भूमिगत quarrying लिये स्टोन, such as नहाना स्टोन.
Mormons ( ) are a religious and सांस्कृतिक समूह सम्बन्धित to mormonism, the principal branch of the latter दिन संत movement of restorationist christianity, जिससे began साथ the visions of Joseph Smith in upstate New York during the 1820s.
बाद स्मिथ 's मौत in 1844 the mormons followed ब्रिघम Young to कया would become the यूटा territory.
आज mormons हैं समझा to be सदस्यों of The Church of यीशु मसीह of latter-day Saints ( lds Church ).
Some Mormons are भी either स्वतंत्र or non-practicing.
the center of mormon सांस्कृतिक influence is in यूटा, and उत्तर America रै more mormons than कोई अन्य महाद्वीप, though the बहुमत of Mormons live outside the United States.
mormons have विकसित a दमदार sense of communality that तना इससे उनके doctrine and इतिहास.
During the 19th century Mormon converts tended to एकत्रित to a सेंट्रल geographic स्थान, and between 1852 और 1890 a minority of mormons openly practiced plural विवाह, a रूप of धार्मिक polygamy.
mormons dedicate large amounts of time and संसाधन to सेवारत in their गिरिजाघर, और many यंग mormons चुनें to serve a full-time proselytizing mission.
mormons have a health कोड कि eschews alcoholic पेय, tobacco, कॉफी, चाय, और other addictive substances.
They tend to be बहुत family-oriented, और have दमदार कनेक्शन्स across पीढियां and with extended family, reflective of their belief कि परिवारों can be sealed together परे death and throughout शाश्वत.
mormons also have a सख्त law of chastity, requiring abstention इससे sexual संबंध बाहर of विवाह और strict वफ़ादारी within marriage.
Mormons self-identify as ईसाई, हालांकि कुछ of उनके मान्यताओं differ इससे mainstream Christianity.
mormons मानना in the Bible, as खूब as other books of scripture, ऐसे as the किताब of Mormon.
वे have a unique view of cosmology, और believe कि all people are spirit-children of God.
Mormons believe that returning to God requires following the उदाहरण of यीशु मसीह, and accepting उसके atonement through ordinances such as बपतिस्मा.
They believe कि Christ 's church थी restored through Joseph स्मिथ, और is guided by जीना prophets और apostles.
सेंट्रल to Mormon faith is the belief कि God बोलती to his children और जवाब their प्रार्थनाएं.
In वित्तीय हिसाब, एसेट हैं आर्थिक संसाधन.
Anything tangible or intangible that is capable of होने owned or controlled to produce मान and that is आयोजित to have positive economic मान is माना an एसेट.
बस stated, एसेट represent value of स्वामित्व कि can be परिवर्तित into नकदी ( हालांकि नकदी itself is also considered an एसेट ).
the balance sheet of a कड़ records the monetaryJ.
G. siegel, N. Dauber & J. K. shim, `` The Vest जेब cpa '', Wiley, 2005.there हैं अलग methods of assessing the monetary मान of the एसेट अंकित on the Balance चादर.
In some मामले, the ऐतिहासिक लागत is used ; such that the मान of the एसेट when it थी bought in the past is used as the monetary मान.
in other instances, the उपस्थित मेला market मान of the एसेट is प्रयुक्त to determine the value shown on the balance sheet.
value of the एसेट स्वामित्व by the firm.
It is money और other valuables belonging to an individual or business.
दो प्रमुख एसेट classes हैं ठोस एसेट और intangible एसेट.
ठोस एसेट contain विभिन्न subclasses, सहित current assets और fixed assets.j.
downes, J.E. गुडमैन, `` Dictionary of Finance & निवेश शर्तें '', Baron 's Financial Guides, 2003 वर्तमान एसेट include inventory, while fixed एसेट शामिल ऐसे वस्तुएं as इमारतें और equipment.J. downes, J.E. गुडमैन, `` Dictionary of Finance & निवेश शर्तें '', सामन्त 's वित्तीय मार्गदर्शिका, 2003 ; और J. G. Siegel, N. Dauber & J. K. Shim, `` the Vest जेब CPA '', Wiley, 2005.
intangible एसेट हैं nonphysical resources और अधिकारों कि have a value to the firm because they दे the कड़ कुछ दयालु of लाभ in the मार्केट place.
Examples of intangible एसेट are goodwill, copyrights, trademarks, patents और computer programs, और financial assets, including ऐसे items as accounts receivable, bonds और स्टॉक्स.
A neuron ( or ; भी known as a neurone or nerve cell ) is an electrically excitable कोशिका कि प्रक्रियाओं और transmits information through electrical and chemical signals.
A रासायनिक signal occurs via a synapse, a specialized कनेक्शन साथ other कोशिकाएं.
न्यूरॉन्स connect to each अन्य to रूप neural networks.
न्यूरॉन्स हैं the कोर components of the nervous system, जिससे includes the brain, spinal cord, and परिधीय ganglia.
A क्रमांक of specialized प्रकार of न्यूरॉन्स exist : संवेदी neurons respond to touch, ध्वनि, light और numerous अन्य stimuli affecting cells of the sensory अंगों that तब send signals to the spinal cord और दिमाग.
मोटर न्यूरॉन्स receive signals from the दिमाग and spinal cord, कारण मांसपेशी contractions, और affect ग्रंथियों.
Interneurons कनेक्ट neurons to other neurons भीतर the वही प्रदेश of the दिमाग or spinal cord.
a typical न्यूरॉन possesses a कोशिका देह ( often called the सोम ), dendrites, और an axon.
dendrites are thin structures that उठता from the cell देह, often extending लिये hundreds of micrometres and branching multiple times, giving rise to a complex `` dendritic tree ''.
An axon is a special cellular extension कि arises इससे the कोशिका body at a साईट called the axon hillock and travels for a distance, as far as 1 मीटर in humans or भी अधिक in अन्य species.
The कोशिका body of a neuron अक्सर देता वृद्धि to multiple dendrites, but never to more than one axon, although the axon may branch सैंकड़ों of टाइम्स before it terminates.
At the majority of synapses, सिग्नल are भेजा इससे the axon of एक neuron to a dendrite of another.
There हैं, however, many exceptions to these नियम : neurons that lack dendrites, न्यूरॉन्स कि have no axon, synapses that कनेक्ट an axon to another axon or a dendrite to another dendrite, etc.
सब neurons हैं electrically excitable, maintaining वोल्टेज gradients across their membranes by means of metabolically driven आयन pumps, जिससे combine with आयन चैनल्स अंतःस्थापित in the membrane to generate intracellular-versus-extracellular विशेषज्ञता differences of ions such as sodium, potassium, chloride, और कैल्सियम.
परिवर्तन in the cross-membrane वोल्टेज can alter the फलन of voltage-dependent ion चैनल्स.
If the वोल्टेज परिवर्तन by a large enough amount, an all-or-none electrochemical पल्स पुकारा an कार्रवाई potential is generated, which ट्रेवल्स rapidly साथ the कोशिका 's axon, और activates synaptic कनेक्शन्स साथ अन्य कोशिकाएं when it arrives.
Neurons do not undergo कोशिका प्रभाग.
In most cases, neurons are उत्पन्न by special प्रकार of स्टेम cells.
astrocytes, a type of glial cell, have also महरूम observed to फेरे into neurons by virtue of the स्टेम cell characteristic pluripotency.
in इंसानो, neurogenesis largely ceases दौरान adulthood—but in दो brain areas, the हिप्पोकैम्पस और olfactory बल्ब, there is strong प्रमाण for पीढी of substantial numbers of नई neurons.
Super कटोरी xliii थी an अमरीकी football खेल between the अमरीकी Football Conference ( AFC ) चैंपियन पिट्सबर्ग Steelers और the National फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( nfc ) champion एरिज़ोना Cardinals to decide the नेशनल Football League ( NFL ) चैंपियन for the 2008 season.
The Steelers defeated the Cardinals by the स्कोर of 27–23.
The game was played on February 1, 2009, at Raymond James Stadium in tampa, फ्लोरिडा.
With this जीत, the स्टीलर्स became the first टोली to जीत छह Super प्याले.
Pittsburgh, who समाप्त the नियमित ऋतु with a 12–4 record, also won their second सुपर Bowl in चार years after winning सुपर Bowl XL at the समाप्त of the 2005 season.
the कार्डिनल्स entered the game seeking उनके first एनएफएल शीर्षक since 1947, the longest चैंपियनशिप drought in the league.
the क्लबों became an unexpected winner दौरान the नियमित ऋतु, compiling a 9–7 record, and the playoffs साथ the सहायता of head coach केन Whisenhunt, who थी the स्टीलर्स ' offensive समन्वयक in Super कटोरी XL, और the re-emergence of quarterback कर्ट warner, who थी the सुपर Bowl MVP in सुपर कटोरी xxxiv with उसके पूर्व team, st. लुई मेढ़ों.
पिट्सबर्ग कूद to a 17–7 मध्यांतर lead, aided by linebacker James Harrison 's Super कटोरी record 100-yard interception वापसी लिये a touchdown.
Trailing 20–7 at the प्रारंभ of the चौथी क्वार्टर, Arizona scored 16 अनुत्तरित अंक, सहित चौड़ी receiver लैरी Fitzgerald 's 64-yard touchdown रिसेप्शन, to लो the सीसे साथ 2:37 बाकी in the खेल.
लकिन the स्टीलर्स marched 78 yards to स्कोर on wide receiver santonio holmes ' 6-yard game-winning touchdown catch with 35 seconds left.
holmes, who caught nine गुजरता लिये 131 yards and a touchdown, including चार receptions लिये 73 गज on कि final game-winning drive, थी named Super कटोरी MVP.
He became the sixth wide receiver to win the award, and also थी the तीसरा Pittsburgh receiver to जीत the award, following lynn swann and Hines वार्ड.
Despite the वैश्विक financial संकट and limited amount of ancillary festivities कि हैं सामान्यतः आयोजित पहले the खेल, the NBC television network ब्रॉडकास्ट आकर्षित an average u.S. audience of 98.7 million viewers, making it the सबसे watched Super Bowl in इतिहास to that point.
A आरेख of the electromagnetic वर्णक्रम, showing विभिन्न properties across the दायरा of बारंबारता और wavelengths
the electromagnetic वर्णक्रम is the दायरा of all संभावित frequencies of electromagnetic विकिरण.
the `` इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम '' of an object has a अलग meaning, और is बजाय the characteristic वितरण of electromagnetic radiation उत्सर्जित or अवशोषित by that particular ऑब्जेक्ट.
the electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used लिये modern radio communication to गामा विकिरण at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end, thereby covering wavelengths इससे हज़ारों of किलोमीटर down to a भिन्न of the आकार of an atom.
The limit लिये long wavelengths is the size of the ब्रह्मांड itself, while it is thought कि the short wavelength सीमा is in the vicinity of the प्लांक लंबाई, हालांकि in principle the वर्णक्रम is infinite और continuous.
सबसे भाग of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक spectrum हैं used in विज्ञान for spectroscopic और अन्य probing interactions, as तरीके to study और characterize पदार्थ.
in addition, radiation इससे विभिन्न parts of the वर्णक्रम रै मिला अनेक अन्य उपयोग लिये communications and निर्माण ( see इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण for अधिक applications ).
लेजेंड
marchantia, a liverwort
Bryophyte is a परंपरागत नाम used to refer to सब embryophytes ( land पौधे ) कि do नहीं have true vascular tissue and हैं इसलिए called ' non-vascular plants '.
Some bryophytes do have specialized tissues for the हस्तांतरण of जल ; however चूंकि ये do नहीं contain lignin, they हैं नहीं considered to be true vascular ऊतक.
फिलहाल bryophytes हैं विचार not to be a natural or monophyletic समूह ; however the नाम is सुविधाजनक and remains in use as a collective पद लिये mosses, hornworts, और liverworts.
Bryophytes उपज enclosed reproductive structures ( gametangia और sporangia ), लकिन they उपज neither पुष्प nor seeds, reproducing via बीजाणुओं.
The term ब्रायोफाइटा comes from Greek βρύον, bryon, `` tree-moss, oyster-green '' + φυτόν - phyton `` संयंत्र ''.
a bank is a वित्तीय संस्था और a financial intermediary कि accepts deposits and चैनल्स those जमा into lending क्रियाएँ, either सीधे by loaning or indirectly through capital markets.
A बैंको is the कनेक्शन between customers that have capital deficits and ग्राहक with capital surpluses.
Due to their influence भीतर a financial system और an अर्थव्यवस्था, बैंको are generally अत्यधिक regulated in most countries.
Most बैंको operate अंतर्गत a system known as fractional reserve बैंकिंग where they hold तभी a छोटी reserve of the funds deposited and lend out the बाकी for लाभ.
They हैं generally विषय to न्यूनतम पूंजी requirements which are आधारित on an international set of capital मानकों, ज्ञात as the Basel Accords.
The oldest bank स्टिल in अस्तित्व is मोंटे देई Paschi di सियेना, headquartered in Siena, Italy, which रै महरूम ऑपरेटिंग continuously चूंकि 1472.
it is followed by berenberg Bank of हैम्बर्ग ( 1590 ) और Sveriges Riksbank of Sweden ( 1668 ).
बैंकिंग in its आधुनिक भाव विकसित in समृद्ध cities of Renaissance Italy, ऐसे as फ्लोरेंस, वेनिस and जेनोआ.
In the इतिहास of banking, a क्रमांक of बैंकिंग dynasties —among them notably Medici, fugger, Welser, berenberg, Baring और Rothschild —have निभाई a सेंट्रल role over अनेक सदियां.
The Xbox is a वीडियो खेल कंसोल manufactured by Microsoft.
It थी released on नवम्बर 15, 2001 in North अमेरिका, February 22, 2002 in Japan, और March 14, 2002 in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और Europe.
It was microsoft 's first foray into the gaming कंसोल मार्केट.
as part of the sixth-generation of gaming, the एक्सबॉक्स competed साथ Sony 's PlayStation 2, Sega 's Dreamcast ( which रोका अमरीकी sales before the एक्सबॉक्स went on बिक्री ), और निन्टेंडो 's gamecube.
The Xbox थी the पहला console offered by an अमरीकी company बाद the Atari Jaguar stopped बिक्री in 1996.
The एकीकृत एक्सबॉक्स सजीव service शुभारम्भ in नवम्बर 2002 allowed खिलाड़ी to play खेल online साथ a broadband कनेक्शन.
It first competed साथ Dreamcast 's ऑनलाइन सेवा लकिन later primarily competed साथ प्लेस्टेशन 2 's ऑनलाइन service.
Although these दो हैं फ़्री while Xbox सजीव required a सब्सक्रिप्शन, as well as broadband-only कनेक्शन which थी not completely adopted yet, Xbox सजीव was a कामयाबी due to बेहतर servers, features such as a buddy list, और पड़ाव शीर्षक जैसे Halo 2 released in नवम्बर 2004, which is the best-selling एक्सबॉक्स वीडियो game और थी by far the सबसे लोकप्रिय online खेल for years.
एक्सबॉक्स 's successor, the एक्सबॉक्स 360, was launched in November 2005.
the Xbox was discontinued in late 2005 in Japan जहाँ sales were ग़रीब.
It थी discontinued in लेट 2006 in यूरोपीय और early 2007 in उत्तर अमेरिका.
The पिछला Xbox खेल in Europe was टोनी हॉक 's Project 8 released in November 2006, और the last game in North America was Madden एनएफएल 09 released in अगस्त 2008.
support for out-of-warranty Xbox consoles was discontinued on कूच 2, 2009, stating that any in-warranty repair now needed will not be undertaken.
Xbox access to एक्सबॉक्स सजीव was रोका on अप्रैल 15, 2010.
The इन्जील According to जॉन ( Greek τὸ κατὰ ἰωάννην εὐαγγέλιον ), commonly referred to as the Gospel of जॉन or simply जॉन and प्रायः referred to in नई Testament स्कॉलरशिप as the चौथी इन्जील, is an खाता of the public ministry of यीशु.
it begins साथ the गवाह और प्रतिज्ञान by जॉन the बैपटिस्ट और concludes साथ the death, दफ़न, resurrection, and post-resurrection appearances of यीशु.
इस खाता is fourth of the canonical gospels, after the synoptics Matthew, Mark और ल्यूक.
states कि the किताब गर्भाशयी from the testimony of the ' disciple जिसको Jesus loved. '
Along with पीटर, the unnamed disciple is especially बंद to Jesus, और early-church tradition पहचाना उसे as John the Apostle, one of यीशु ' Twelve Apostles.
The इन्जील is closely related in स्टाइल and सामग्री to the तीन surviving Epistles of John ऐसे that टीकाकारों treat the four किताबे साथ, yet, according to सबसे modern विद्वानों, John was not the author of कोई of these books.
हाल ईसाई scripture स्कॉलरशिप अधिक and अधिक has लगाई जॉन within a first-century यहूदी कॉन्टेक्स्ट.
रेमंड E. भूरा did pioneering work to trace the development of the परंपरा इससे which the gospel arose.
The discourses seem to be concerned with the actual issues of the church-and-synagogue बहस at the समय when the Gospel थी written.
it is notable that, in the gospel, the community स्टिल appears to define itself primarily विरूद्ध Judaism, बल्कि than as भाग of a wider Christian गिरिजाघर.
Though christianity प्रारंभ as a गति within judaism, धीरे Christians और यहूदियों became bitterly opposed.
जॉन presents a `` higher '' Christology than the synoptics, meaning that it describes Jesus as the incarnation of the divine लोगो through जिसको all बाते were बना, as the object of veneration, और more explicitly as God incarnate.
Only in John करता Jesus बात at लंबाई about himself और उसके दैवी role, often shared with the शिष्यों only.
Against the synoptics, जॉन focuses largely on different चमत्कार ( including resurrecting Lazarus ), given as लक्षण meant to engender faith.
synoptic elements such as parables और exorcisms are not found in John.
it presents a realized eschatology in which salvation is already उपस्थित for the आस्तिक.
the Plagues of मिश्र ( ), भी called the टेन plagues ( ) or the Biblical plagues, यहूद टेन calamities कि, according to the biblical किताब of exodus, Israel 's God, Yahweh, inflicted upon मिश्र to राजी Pharaoh to रिलीज the ill-treated israelites इससे slavery.
Pharaoh capitulated बाद the tenth plague, triggering the exodus of the Jewish लोगों.
the plagues were designed to contrast the power of yahweh with the नपुंसकता of Egypt 's various देवताओं.
Some commentators have संबद्ध several of the plagues साथ निर्णय on विशिष्ट देवताओं associated साथ the nile, प्रजनन and natural phenomena.
the plagues of Egypt are भी mentioned in the Quran ( 7,133–136 ).
According to the Book of exodus, God proclaims कि all the gods of Egypt होगा be judged through the दसवाँ और फाइनल plague:
जॉन Martin 's पेंटिंग of the plague of hail और fire ( 1823 ).
A role-playing game ( आरपीजी and sometimes roleplaying game ) is a खेल in जिससे players assume the भूमिकाएँ of characters in a fictional सेटिंग.
खिलाड़ी लो जिम्मेदारी for एक्टिंग आउट these roles भीतर a narrative, either through literal एक्टिंग or through a प्रक्रम of संरचित decision-making or character विकास.
क्रियाएँ लिया within अनेक खेल सफल or असफल according to a औपचारिक प्रणाली of नियम and दिशानिर्देश.
वहीँ are अनेक forms of आरपीजी.
the असली form, sometimes पुकारा the tabletop आरपीजी, is conducted through discussion, whereas in live action role-playing games ( larp ) खिलाड़ी physically perform उनके characters ' क्रियाएँ.
In दोनो of ये forms, an arranger पुकारा a game master ( GM ) प्रायः decides on the नियम and सेटिंग to be used and अधिनियमों as रेफरी, जबकि प्रत्येक of the अन्य players plays the role of a सिंगल अक्षर.
अनेक varieties of RPG also मौजूद in electronic media, such as multi-player text-based MUDs and their graphics-based successors, massively multiplayer ऑनलाइन role-playing खेल ( MMORPGs ).
role-playing games also शामिल single-player ऑफ़लाइन role-playing video खेल in जिससे खिलाड़ी control a character or team जो undertake quests, and may शामिल सामर्थ्य that अग्रिम using statistical यांत्रिकी.
These games प्रायः share settings and नियम साथ tabletop RPGs, but emphasize अक्षर उन्नति more than collaborative storytelling.
despite इस variety of forms, some खेल forms such as trading कार्ड games और wargames that हैं सम्बन्धित to role-playing games may not be शामिल.
Role-playing कार्यकलाप may sometimes be उपस्थित in such games, but it is नहीं the primary फ़ोकस.
the पद is also sometimes used to describe लिए सिमुलेशन खेल और exercises प्रयुक्त in शिक्षण, प्रशिक्षण, and अकादमिक research.
The अमरीकी सिविल War ( acw ), also ज्ञात as the War between the States or बस the सिविल War ( देखिए naming ), was a सिविल war fought इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त States ( the `` Union '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) and several दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य कि declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of अमेरिका ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
the war था इसके origin in the समस्या of slavery, विशेषकर the extension of गुलामी into the western territories.
Foreign powers किया नहीं intervene.
बाद चार years of खूनी कॉम्बैट कि left over 600,000 सैनिको dead and destroyed much of the South 's अवसंरचना, the confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring national एकता और guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed स्लेव began.
In the 1860 अध्यक्षीय election, republicans, led by अब्राहम Lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United राज्य ' territories.
Lincoln won, लकिन पहले उसके inauguration on कूच 4, 1861, सात cotton-based स्लेव states formed the Confederacy.
outgoing Democratic अध्यक्ष जेम्स Buchanan and the incoming republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address घोषित his administration होता नहीं initiate civil युद्ध.
Eight बाकी slave states जारी to अस्वीकृत calls for secession.
confederate शक्तियां seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the confederacy.
A सलाम Conference failed to ढूँढें a compromise, और both sides prepared लिये युद्ध.
the Confederates assumed कि European देशों were so निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` कि they would intervene ; none did और none पहचाना the नई confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on अप्रैल 12, 1861, जब confederate forces fired upon फोर्ट Sumter, a कुंजी fort held by Union troops in South कैरोलिना.
lincoln पुकारा लिये प्रत्येक राज्य to provide troops to retake the fort ; नतीजतन, four अधिक slave राज्य joined the confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the किनारा राज्य और established a naval नाकेबंदी कि अबोध the दक्षिणी economy.
the Eastern Theater थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
the पतझड़ 1862 confederate अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ state ) ended with Confederate रिट्रीट at the Battle of antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, जिससे बना समाप्ति slavery a war लक्ष्य.
to the west, by summer 1862 the Union नष्ट the Confederate नदी navy, then much of their western armies, और the Union at vicksburg विभाजित the Confederacy in two at the मिसिसिपी नदी.
In 1863, रॉबर्ट E. Lee 's Confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the बैटल of gettysburg.
पश्चिमी सफलताओं led to Ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of सब Union सेना in 1864.
In the Western Theater, विलियम T. शरमन drove ईस्ट to capture अटलांटा and marched to the sea, destroying confederate अवसंरचना along the रास्ता.
The संघ marshaled the संसाधन and manpower to आक्रमण the Confederacy इससे सब directions, और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the Overland अभियान towards Richmond, the confederate पूंजी.
The defending confederate फौज failed, अग्रणी to Lee 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at Appomattox अदालत हाउस on अप्रैल 9, 1865.
The American सिविल War थी एक of the earliest true industrial wars.
railroads, the telegraph, steamships, और mass-produced हथियार were employed extensively.
the mobilization of civilian कारखानों, खानों, shipyards, बैंको, परिवहन and food supplies सब foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American इतिहास, resulting in the मौतों of an estimated 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
इतिहासकार John Huddleston estimates the मौत toll at ten percent of all उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो old, and 30 percent of all दक्षिणी white males aged 18–40.
The परिभाषा of the world 's व्यस्ततम विमानक्षेत्र रै been निर्दिष्ट by the Airports परिषद International in Geneva, स्विट्ज़रलैंड.
The ACI defines and measures the following तीन प्रकार of airport traffic:
Passenger ट्रैफ़िक : total passengers emplaned और deplaned, यात्री in पारगमन counted एकबार
Cargo traffic : loaded and unloaded भाड़ा and mail in metric tonnes
Traffic आंदोलनों : landings और take-offs of वायुयान
World युद्ध i ( WWI ) was a वैश्विक युद्ध केंद्रित in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted जबतक 11 नवम्बर 1918.
it was predominantly called the World War or the ग्रेट War from इसके occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of World War ii in 1939, and the First World युद्ध or संसार युद्ध I thereafter.
it involved all the संसार 's ग्रेट powers, जिससे यहूद समवेत in दो opposing alliances : the allies ( based on the Triple entente of the United किंगडम, फ़्रांस और Russia ) and the Central शक्तियां ( originally the Triple Alliance of जर्मनी, austria-hungary और Italy ; लकिन, as austria–hungary had लिया the offensive विरूद्ध the अनुबंध, इटली किया नहीं डालें into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised और expanded as अधिक nations entered the war : Italy, जापानी and the United States joined the allies, और the Ottoman साम्राज्य और Bulgaria the Central शक्तियां.
ultimately, more than 70 million सैन्य कर्मियों, सहित 60 million Europeans, were mobilised in एक of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 लाख combatants यहूद killed, largely क्युकी of technological advancements कि led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without सम्बन्धित improvements in सुरक्षा or गतिशीलता.
it थी the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये various political परिवर्तन, such as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of साम्राज्यवाद in the विदेशी नीतियों of the ग्रेट शक्तियां of यूरोपीय.
अधिक immediately, the assassination of archduke Franz फर्डिनेंड of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a diplomatic संकट when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of सर्बिया.
Several alliances formed over the पिछला दशकों were invoked.
Within सप्ताह, the प्रमुख powers यहूद at युद्ध और, via their colonies, the विरोध soon spread around the संसार.
On 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the war as preparation लिये the invasion of Serbia.
While the russians mobilised, the germans invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम and ध्वज on the रास्ता to France, providing a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's घोषणा of war against Germany.
After the German कूच on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the पश्चिमी सामने settled into a स्थिर बैटल of अपघर्षण with a trench लकीर कि बदला little जबतक 1917.
On the पूर्वी Front, the Russian फौज was कामयाब against the austro-hungarians, लकिन was रोका in इसके invasion of ईस्ट prussia by the Germans.
In नवम्बर the उस्मानी साम्राज्य joined the war, opening up fronts in the काकेशस, मेसोपोटामिया और the Sinai.
Italy और बुल्गारिया went to युद्ध in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
in Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in कूच 1917 and a subsequent क्रान्ति in November brought the russians to शर्तें साथ the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive along the पश्चिमी सामने, the allies drove वापस the germans in a श्रेणी of successful offensives and अमरीकी शक्तियां began entering the trenches.
जर्मनी, which had इसके own ट्रबल with revolutionaries, agreed to an armistice on 11 नवम्बर 1918.
The war ended in विजय for the Allies.
कार्यक्रम on the घर fronts were as उग्र as on the battle fronts, as the भागीदार tried to mobilize their manpower और आर्थिक संसाधन to fight a कुल war.
By the end of the युद्ध, चार प्रमुख इम्पीरियल powers—the जर्मनी, Russian, austro-hungarian and उस्मानी empires—ceased to exist.
The successor राज्य of the पूर्व दो खोया a great राशि of territory, जबकि the latter two यहूद dismantled entirely.
the मैप of सेंट्रल Europe was redrawn into several छोटी states.
the League of राष्ट्र was formed in the hope of preventing another such विरोध.
The यूरोपीय राष्ट्रवाद शाखित by the युद्ध and the ब्रेकअप of empires, the repercussions of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और समस्याएं साथ the Treaty of Versailles हैं सहमत to be कारकों contributing to संसार युद्ध II.
The Deepwater क्षितिज oil spill ( also referred to as the BP oil spill, the bp oil विपत्ति, the गल्फ of मैक्सिको आयल spill, and the macondo blowout ) was an oil spill in the गल्फ of मैक्सिको on the bp -operated macondo Prospect, considered the largest accidental marine आयल spill in the इतिहास of the petroleum industry, estimated to be between 8 % and 31 % larger in volume than the earlier Ixtoc i आयल spill.
following the विस्फोट and sinking of the deepwater Horizon आयल रिग, जिससे claimed 11 lives, a sea-floor oil gusher flowed unabated लिये 87 दिनों, जबतक it was capped on 15 July 2010.
The total discharge is अनुमानित at.
a massive जवाब ensued to protect beaches, wetlands and मुहानों इससे the spreading आयल utilizing skimmer ships, floating booms, नियंत्रित burns and of corexit oil dispersant.
After अनेक failed efforts to contain the प्रवाह, the खूब थी declared sealed on 19 सितंबर 2010.
Some reports indicate the well साईट continues to leak.
Due to the months-long spill, साथ साथ adverse प्रभाव इससे the response and cleanup क्रियाएँ, extensive damage to समुद्री और wildlife habitats, फ़िशिंग और पर्यटन industries, और human health problems have continued through 2013.Three सालो बाद the spill, तारकोल गेंदें could still be मिला on the मिसिसिपी coast.
numerous investigations छान the causes of the explosion and record-setting spill.
notably, the U.S. सरकारी 's सितंबर 2011 report pointed to defective cement on the well, faulting ज़्यादातर bp, लकिन भी खूब operator Transocean और ठेकेदार halliburton.
Earlier in 2011, a White हाउस आयोग likewise blamed bp and इसके partners for a श्रेणी of cost-cutting decisions and an अपर्याप्त सुरक्षा system, but also concluded that the spill resulted इससे `` प्रणालीगत '' root causes और `` absent significant reform in दोनो उद्योग practices and government नीतियों, might well recur ''.
in November 2012, BP और the संयुक्त States विभाग of इंसाफ settled संघीय criminal charges साथ bp pleading guilty to 11 रिश्तो of manslaughter, two misdemeanors, और a felony count of lying to कॉंग्रेस.
bp also सहमत to four सालो of सरकारी monitoring of its सुरक्षा practices और ethics, और the Environmental सुरक्षा Agency announced कि bp would be temporarily बैन इससे नई contracts साथ the US सरकारी.
BP and the विभाग of इंसाफ agreed to a record-setting $ 4.525 अरब in fines and other payments लकिन further विधिक proceedings not expected to conclude until 2014 हैं जारी to determine payouts और जुर्माना under the साफ Water अधिनियम और the प्राकृतिक संसाधन Damage Assessment.
as of फ़रवरी 2013, दण्ड and civil settlements और भुगतान to a trust निधि था cost the company $ 42.2 अरब.
`` Where the गलियों have no Name '' is a song by rock band u2.
It is the खोलने track from उनके 1987 album The जोशुआ पेड़ और थी released as the एल्बम 's तीसरा single in August 1987.
The सोंग 's आँकड़ा is a repeating गिटार arpeggio using a delay effect, निभाई दौरान the song 's introduction and again at the समाप्त.
Lead vocalist बोनो लिखा the lyrics in response to the ख़्याल कि it is संभावित to identify a व्यक्ति 's धर्म और आय based on the गली on which वे lived, particularly in Belfast.
दौरान the band 's difficulties recording the सोंग, producer ब्रायन Eno माना erasing the song 's tapes to have them start from खरोंच.
`` Where the Streets Have no Name '' was praised by critics और became a वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी, peaking at number thirteen in the US, number चौदह in Canada, क्रमांक ten in the नीदरलैंड्स, and number four in the United किंगडम.
The सोंग रै become one of the band 's most popular songs and रै remained a staple of उनके live act since the song debuted in 1987 on the जोशुआ Tree Tour.
The सोंग थी notably performed on a लॉस एंजिल्स छत for the फिल्मांकन of its म्यूज़िक video, जिससे won a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार for बेहतरीन Performance म्यूज़िक वीडियो.recently the song रै been used by the एनएफएल 's बाल्टीमोर Ravens as their entrance song in सुपर कटोरी xlvii
थामस Jeffrey `` Tom '' हैंक्स ( born July 9, 1956 ) is an अमरीकी actor, producer, writer, and director.
हैंक्स is ज्ञात for उसके भूमिकाएँ in अपोलो 13, Big, कि Thing You do !
, The Green Mile, तुम 've Got Mail, sleepless in Seattle, चार्ली विल्सन 's War, Catch me if You can, फॉरेस्ट Gump, डाल Away, a League of Their अपना, the Da Vinci कोड, Angels & Demons, as well as animated films जैसे the Toy Story film श्रेणी, The Polar एक्स्प्रेस, और The Simpsons Movie.
He has earned और महरूम मनोनीत for numerous पुरस्कार during his career, including winning a सुनहरी ग्लोब for बेहतरीन कर्ता और an अकादमी पुरस्कार for बेहतरीन Actor for his भूमिका in फिलाडेल्फिया and a Golden ग्लोब, an Academy पुरस्कार, a स्क्रीन Actors Guild Award, and a People 's चुनाव Award for Best कर्ता for उसके भूमिका in Forrest Gump, and earning the स्टेनली kubrick britannia पुरस्कार लिये excellence in Film from the BAFTAs in 2004.
हैंक्स is भी ज्ञात for his सहयोग साथ फिल्मी director Steven स्पिलबर्ग on Saving Private Ryan और the mini-series बैंड of भाइयो, which शुभारम्भ हैंक्स भी as a कामयाब director, निर्माता and writer.
As of 2012, Hanks ' films have grossed over $ 4.2 अरब at the United राज्य box दफ्तर alone, and over $ 8.5 अरब विश्वव्यापी बनाना him the उच्चतम all-time box दफ्तर स्टार.
the Cape is an अमरीकी superhero नाटक श्रेणी.
It premiered on NBC during the 2010–2011 टेलीविज़न ऋतु as a mid-season बदलना beginning साथ a two-hour pilot episode on Sunday, January 9, 2011 at 9 pm पूर्वी and Pacific समय.
an encore निभाई on Monday, जनवरी 10, with follow-up एपीसोड continuing on Monday evenings in the 9 pm timeslot beginning on January 17.
एनबीसी subsequently काटें the total number of episodes to be aired इससे 13 to 10 as a result of low दरजा.
On March 2, 2011, NBC announced that the श्रेणी finale would only be aired on the संजाल 's जालस्थल.
हैली 's धूमकेतु or Comet हैली ( or ), officially designated 1P/Halley, is the best-known of the short-period धूमकेतुओं और is visible from Earth every 75–76 सालो.
हैली is the तभी short-period comet कि is clearly दृश्य to the naked eye इससे धरती, and यूँ the only naked-eye comet that might appear twice in a इंसान आजीवन.
अन्य naked-eye धूमकेतुओं may be उज्जवल and more spectacular, but will appear only once in thousands of years.
हैली 's रिटर्न to the भीतरी Solar प्रणाली have been observed and recorded by astronomers चूंकि at least 240 bce.
साफ रिकॉर्ड of the धूमकेतु 's दिखावे यहूद made by Chinese, babylonian, और मध्यकालीन यूरोपीय chroniclers, but यहूद नहीं recognized as reappearances of the वही ऑब्जेक्ट at the time.
The comet 's periodicity थी first संकल्पित in 1705 by English astronomer edmond Halley, बाद whom it is अभी नामित.
Halley 's Comet पिछला appeared in the inner सौर प्रणाली in 1986 and होगा next appear in mid-2061.
दौरान its 1986 apparition, Halley became the first comet to be observed in detail by spacecraft, providing the पहला observational data on the ढांचा of a धूमकेतु केंद्रक और the यांत्रिकी of coma and tail formation.
These observations समर्थित a क्रमांक of longstanding hypotheses about धूमकेतु construction, particularly Fred whipple 's `` गंदा snowball '' model, which correctly पूर्वानुमानित that Halley होता be रचित of a मिश्रण of volatile ices – such as water, carbon dioxide और अमोनिया – और dust.
the मिशन also provided data जिससे substantially reformed and reconfigured ये ideas ; for उदाहरण it is अभी समझा कि हैली 's सतह is largely रचित of dusty, non-volatile सामग्री, and कि only a छोटी portion of it is icy.
the following is a list of the most populous incorporated places of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका.
As पारिभाषित by the United राज्य Census Bureau, an `` incorporated प्लेस `` शामिल a किस्में of designations, सहित नगर, कस्बा, village, borough, और नगरपालिका.
A few असाधारण Census Designated Places ( CDPs ) हैं भी included in the जनसांख्यिकी Bureau 's लिस्टिंग of incorporated स्थान.
Consolidated city-counties represent a पृथक type of सरकारी कि शामिल the संपूर्ण population of a काउंटी, or काउंटी समतुल्य.
Some संचित city-counties, however, शामिल अनेक incorporated places.
इस सूची presents only that portion ( or `` balance '' ) of such संचित city-counties कि are नहीं a भाग of another incorporated प्लेस.
Note that इस list refers तभी to the population of individual municipalities within उनके पारिभाषित limits, जिससे करता नहीं शामिल other municipalities or unincorporated suburban क्षेत्रों within शहरी agglomerations.
A अलग रैंकिंग is evident when considering u.S. महानगर area populations.
The Mayflower was the जलयान कि in 1620 transported 102 English Pilgrims, सहित a कोर group of separatists, to नई England.
Their story is one of travail और अस्तित्व in a हर्ष New World पर्यावरण.
a New जीलैंड forward ( in white ) takes a shot on लक्ष्य against Cameroon in the 2011 फीफा u-20 World Cup.
Forwards, भी known as strikers, हैं the खिलाड़ी on a टोली in संघ फ़ुटबॉल जो play nearest to the opposing team 's goal, और are इसलिए principally जिम्मेदार for scoring लक्ष्य.
इस बहुत advanced position and इसके सीमित defensive responsibilities mean आगे normally score more लक्ष्य than अन्य खिलाड़ी.
This position requires प्रज्ञा, गति, and power, दोनो of निष्पादन और of विचार, to perform the भूमिका well.
आधुनिक team formations usually शामिल एक to three आगे ; दो is the most आम.
Coaches typically field एक striker जो plays in an उन्नत position ( the centre आगे ), and another attacking forward जो plays somewhat deeper और assists in बनाना लक्ष्य as खूब as स्कोरिंग ( the दूसरी striker ).
It चाहिए be विख्यात कि inside forwards develop इससे attacking midfield positions and hence are naturally midfielders.
बार्सिलोना fc star लियोनेल मेस्सी is a typical Attacking मिडफील्डर seen as a forward due to उसके shot accuracy.
a कैलिफ़ोर्निया domestic साझेदारी is a विधिक संबंध available to same-sex युगल, and to certain opposite-sex युगल in which at तनिक एक पार्टी is at तनिक 18 सालो of age.
it affords the couple `` the वही rights, protections, and लाभ, and... the same responsibilities, obligations, and duties अंतर्गत law... '' as शादीशुदा spouses.
enacted in 1999, the domestic partnership रजिस्ट्री थी the first of इसके kind in the United राज्य created by a विधानमंडल बगैर अदालत intervention.
initially, domestic partnerships enjoyed very few privileges—principally बस hospital-visitation rights और the सही to be claimed as a अगला of kin of the एस्टेट of a deceased partner.
The विधानमंडल रै चूंकि विस्तारित the scope of California घरेलू partnerships to include सब of the rights और जिम्मेदारियों common to विवाह.
as ऐसे, कैलिफ़ोर्निया घरेलू partnerships are functionally equivalent to civil unions offered in several अन्य राज्य.
Although the program enjoys व्यापक support in कैलिफ़ोर्निया, it रै been the source of some controversy.
Groups opposed to the मान्यता of same-sex परिवारों have challenged the विस्तार of domestic partnerships in court.
conversely, अधिवक्ताओं of same-sex विवाह contend that anything less than full marriage अधिकारों विस्तारित to same-sex साझेदार is analogous to the `` separate लकिन बराबर '' racial laws of the Jim कौवा era.
चिह्नित A. Jackson ( born अप्रैल 1, 1965 ) is an American basketball coach, and पूर्व खिलाड़ी who is the वर्तमान सिर कोच of the Golden राज्य Warriors of the एनबीए.
A पाइंट guard इससे St. जॉन 's University, he played लिये the नई York knicks, इंडियाना Pacers, लॉस एंजिल्स क्लिपर्स, डेनवर Nuggets, Toronto Raptors, Utah Jazz और Houston rockets in the NBA in a करियर spanning from 1987 to 2004.
Jackson रै also worked as a commentator लिये ईएसपीएन and ABC alongside his former कोच जेफ़ वैन Gundy और play-by-play man माइक Breen.
he was previously an एनबीए analyst for the YES Network 's नई जर्सी Nets खेल.
दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी रै ग्यारह official languages : अफ्रीकी, English, Ndebele, Northern sotho, Sotho, Swazi, Tswana, सोंगा, Venda, Xhosa और Zulu.
Fewer than दो प्रतिशत of दक्षिण africans बोलो a पहला भाषा other than an official एक.
सबसे South africans can speak more than एक language.
Dutch और अंग्रेज़ी were the first official languages of South Africa from 1910 to 1925.
अफ्रीकी थी added as a भाग of डच in 1925.
Dutch थी replaced by अफ्रीकी जब दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी became a गणतंत्र in 1961, और Dutch थी dropped in 1983, so between 1983 और 1994, दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी था two आधिकारिक languages : अंग्रेज़ी and Afrikaans.
The अंग्रेज़ी संस्करण of the South अफ़्रीकी संविधान refers to the भाषाएं by the names in those languages : isiZulu, isiXhosa, Afrikaans, Sepedi ( referring to Northern Sotho ), setswana, English, sesotho ( referring to दक्षिणी sotho ), xitsonga, siswati, Tshivenda और isindebele ( referring to दक्षिणी Ndebele ).
in South अफ़्रीकी, Southern Ndebele is known simply as Ndebele, as most speakers of उत्तरी ndebele सजीव in Zimbabwe.
The 1993 संस्करण of the Constitution referred to उत्तरी Sotho as Sesotho sa leboa, लकिन the 1996 version referred to the भाषा as Sepedi.
Different government departments and आधिकारिक लाशें उपयोग अलग terms to denote Northern Sotho.
the प्रमुख language of government is अंग्रेज़ी भी if South africans प्रायः लो pride in using स्वदेशी languages for any purpose.
Afrikaans also सुविधाएँ prominently in कॉमर्स साथ साथ English as the languages with the उच्चतम number of धाराप्रवाह अध्यक्षों are Afrikaans and अंग्रेज़ी.
In terms of linguistic classification, the आधिकारिक languages include two west-germanic languages ( English and Afrikaans ) और nine bantu languages.
चार of ये are Nguni languages ( Zulu, ख़ोसा, स्वाति and Ndebele ) और three हैं sotho–tswana languages ( Northern Sotho, दक्षिणी sotho and Tswana ).
Tsonga is a tswa–ronga भाषा.
South अफ़्रीकी Sign Language is a distinct हालांकि incompletely उभरा नेशनल मानक भाषा which also subsumes a क्लस्टर of semi-standardised dialects.
Aluminium nitrate is a नमक of एल्युमिनियम and नाइट्रिक एसिड, existing सामान्यतः as a crystalline hydrate, सबसे commonly as एल्युमिनियम nitrate nonahydrate, Al ( NO3 ) 3·9H2O.
The नई यॉर्क jets are a professional फ़ुटबॉल टोली headquartered in florham Park, नई जर्सी, representing the New York metropolitan area.
the टोली is a सदस्य of the पूर्वी Division of the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल Conference ( afc ) in the National फ़ुटबॉल League ( एनएफएल ).
In a unique arrangement for the लीग, the Jets share metlife Stadium in East रदरफोर्ड, New जर्सी साथ the नई York दिग्गज.
The franchise is legally और corporately registered as New यॉर्क jets, llc.
the team was संस्थापित in 1959 as the टाइटन्स of नई York, an original member of the अमरीकी Football लीग ; बाद, the मताधिकार joined the एनएफएल in the AFL–NFL विलय.
the टोली began to play in 1960 at the पोलो grounds.
अंतर्गत new स्वामित्व, the वर्तमान नाम थी adopted in 1963 और the मताधिकार was relocated to Shea Stadium in 1964 and then to the meadowlands Sports Complex in 1984.
The Jets advanced to the playoffs for the पहला time in 1968 और गई on to compete in सुपर कटोरी III where वे defeated the बाल्टीमोर Colts, becoming the पहला AFL टोली to defeat an एनएफएल club in an afl-nfl संसार चैंपियनशिप खेल.
चूंकि 1968, the Jets have appeared in the playoffs thirteen टाइम्स, and in the AFC चैंपियनशिप Game चार times, सबसे recently losing to the पिट्सबर्ग Steelers in 2010.
However, the jets have never लौटे to the सुपर Bowl, making उन्हें one of तीन एनएफएल टीमों to win उनके lone Super कटोरी रूप, along with the New Orleans Saints and tampa खाड़ी buccaneers.
The team 's प्रशिक्षण सुविधा, अटलांटिक स्वास्थ्य Jets प्रशिक्षण Center, which खोली in 2008, is स्तिथ in florham Park.
the team currently holds their annual training camp sessions on the campus of the राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों of नई York at Cortland in Cortland, नई York जबकि holding occasional सत्र at the florham पार्क जटिल.
Psilocybe semilanceata
psilocybin mushrooms, also known as psychedelic mushrooms, are fungi that contain psychoactive indole alkaloids.
वहीँ हैं अनेक colloquial शर्तें for psilocybin mushrooms, the most common होने shrooms and magic mushrooms.
Biological genera containing psilocybin मशरूम include Agrocybe, Conocybe, Copelandia, galerina, Gerronema, Gymnopilus, hypholoma, inocybe, mycena, panaeolus, pluteus, and Psilocybe.
There हैं लगभग 190 प्रजाति of psilocybin मशरूम and सबसे of उन्हें fall in the genus Psilocybe.
psilocybin mushrooms have संभावित been प्रयुक्त since prehistoric times और may have महरूम चित्रित in rock आर्ट.
अनेक cultures have used ये मशरूम in धार्मिक rites.
In modern पश्चिमी society वे हैं प्रयुक्त recreationally for उनके psychedelic effects.
हाल अध्ययन done at इम्पीरियल College लंदन और जॉन्स हॉपकिंस स्कूल of Medicine conclude that when used properly, psilocybin acts as an anti-depressant as suggested by fMRI brain scans.
Alaska ( ) is a राज्य in the संयुक्त States, situated in the northwest extremity of the North अमरीकी महाद्वीप, साथ the अंतरराष्ट्रीय boundary with Canada to the ईस्ट, the आर्कटिक समंदर to the north, और the Pacific समंदर to the west and south, with रूस further वेस्ट आरपार the Bering Strait.
अलास्का is the largest state in the संयुक्त राज्य by area, the 4th तनिक populous और the तनिक densely populated of the 50 United राज्य.
Approximately हाफ of अलास्का 's 731,449 residents सजीव within the Anchorage metropolitan क्षेत्रफल.
अलास्का 's अर्थव्यवस्था is वर्चस्व by the oil, प्राकृतिक गैस, और फ़िशिंग industries ; it रै ये resources in प्रचुरता.
Alaska थी खरीदा इससे रूस on March 30, 1867, लिये $ 7.2 लाख ( $ समायोजित for महंगाई ) at approximately two सेंट per एकड़ ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
The land गई through several administrative changes before becoming an organized ( or incorporated ) territory on may 11, 1912, और the 49th राज्य of the u.S. on January 3, 1959.
the नाम `` अलास्का '' ( аляска ) was already introduced in the रूसी colonial period, जब it थी used तभी for the प्रायद्वीप and is निकला इससे the Aleut alaxsxaq, अर्थ `` the मेनलैंड '' or, अधिक literally, `` the ऑब्जेक्ट towards which the कार्रवाई of the sea is directed ''.
it is भी ज्ञात as alyeska, the `` ग्रेट land '', an aleut शब्द derived इससे the वही root.
The 101 French departments हैं divided into 342 arrondissements, जिससे may be अनूदित into English as जिले.
The capital of an arrondissement/district is पुकारा a subprefecture.
जब an arrondissement contains the प्रीफ़ेक्चर ( पूंजी ) of the विभाग, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, एक्टिंग दोनो as a prefecture और as a subprefecture.
arrondissements हैं further विभाजित into cantons and communes.
The vagina ( from लैटिन vāgīna, literally `` sheath '' or `` म्यान `` ) is a tubular ट्रैक्ट which is a sex organ and has दो main functions ; यौन मैथुन and प्रसव.
In इंसानो, this ड्योढ़ी लीड इससे the opening of the भग to the uterus ( womb ), but the vaginal tract ends at the ग्रीवा.
Unlike मेन, who have only one genital orifice, women have two, the urethra और the योनि.
the vaginal खोलने is much larger than the urethral खोलने, and both openings हैं सुरक्षित by the labia.
The भीतरी mould of the योनि रै a foldy texture which can बनाएँ friction for the शिश्न दौरान intercourse.
दौरान arousal, the vagina gets नम to सुकर the entrance of the शिश्न.
The Latinate plural `` vaginae '' is rarely used in अंग्रेज़ी.
colloquially, the word योनि is often used to refer to the vulva or to the female genitals in general.
However, by its dictionary and anatomical definitions, vagina refers exclusively to the specific internal structure.
The सिनसिनाटी Reds हैं a प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल team आधारित in सिनसिनाटी, ओहियो.
वे हैं सदस्यों of the नेशनल League Central प्रभाग.
Established in 1881 as an independent club, the टोली became a charter सदस्य of the अमरीकी संघ in 1882, और joined the नेशनल लीग in 1890.
The club traditionally traces its origin to baseball 's पहला खुलकर professional team in 1869.
The Reds have won five संसार Series titles, one अमरीकी संघ pennant, nine National League pennants and टेन division शीर्षक.
The Reds निभाई in the नेशनल लीग वेस्ट between 1969 and 1993 and have महरूम in the नेशनल League सेंट्रल चूंकि 1994.
Since 2003, the Reds have निभाई at Great अमरीकी बॉल Park, निर्मित next to उनके घर इससे 1970 to 2002, Riverfront स्टेडियम.
bob Castellini has स्वामित्व the Cincinnati लाल चूंकि 2006.
A prank बदबू बमबारी.
a stink bomb is a यंत्र designed to create an अप्रिय smell.
They range in effectiveness इससे simple pranks to सैन्य grade malodorants or riot control chemical एजेंटों.
the गिनीज किताब of Records lists two smelliest substances.
एक is `` us Government मानक Bathroom Malodor '' ; a मिश्रण of आठ रसायन with a stench resembling इंसान feces, तभी much stronger, designed to परीक्षण the efficacy of deodorizers and एयर fresheners.
another एक, `` जो me ? ``, is a मिश्रण of five sulfur-containing रसायन and खुश्बू like rotting food and carcasses.
The कहावत `` a picture is लायक a thousand शब्द '' refers to the notion कि a जटिल idea can be conveyed साथ just a single still image.
it also aptly characterizes एक of the main goals of कल्पना, namely बनाना it संभावित to अवशोषित large amounts of data quickly.
The अभिव्यक्ति `` Use a चित्र.
It 's worth a thousand words. '' appears in a 1911 newspaper आलेख quoting newspaper एडिटर आर्थर Brisbane discussing journalism and publicity.
1913 newspaper advertisement
A similar phrase, `` One Look is Worth A Thousand Words '', appears in a 1913 newspaper advertisement for the piqua Auto सप्लाई House of Piqua, ओहियो.
An early use of the सटीक phrase appears in an 1918 समाचारपत्र advertisement लिये the San Antonio लाइट which says : One of the स्वदेश 's Greatest सम्पादक Says : One चित्र is लायक a Thousand शब्द the सैन Antonio Light 's Pictorial पत्रिका of the युद्ध exemplifies the सच्चाई of the above बयान -- judging इससे the warm reception it has received at the hands of the Sunday लाइट पाठक.
It is believed by कुछ that the आधुनिक use of the phrase stems इससे an article by फ्रेड R. बर्नार्ड in the विज्ञापन trade journal Printers ' Ink, promoting the उपयोग of images in विज्ञापन कि appeared on the sides of streetcars.
The December 8, 1921 issue carries an ad entitled, `` One dekh is लायक a Thousand Words. ''
Another ad by बर्नार्ड appears in the कूच 10, 1927 समस्या साथ the phrase `` एक चित्र Worth Ten Thousand शब्द, '' जहाँ it is labeled a Chinese कहावत ( 一圖勝萬言 ).
The घर Book of Proverbs, Maxims, and Familiar वाक्यांश उद्धरण Barnard as saying he पुकारा it `` a चाइनीज कहावत, so that लोगों would लो it seriously. ''
जल्द after, the कहावत होता become popularly attributed to Confucius.
the चर्चा of `` One Picture लायक हजार Words '' versus `` एक चित्र Worth Ten हजार Words '' wan येन i hua and 10.000 मील लायक 10.000 books is cited in सूचना ग्राफिक्स where the अवधारणा of अनेक in different disciplines and cultures.
A picture is लायक a thousand words
Despite इस आधुनिक उत्पत्ति of the लोकप्रिय phrase, the sentiment रै been expressed by पहले writers.
लिये example the Russian writer इवान तुर्गेन्येव wrote ( in Fathers and बेटे in 1862 ), `` A picture shows me at a glance what it takes दर्जनों of पृष्ठों of a किताब to expound. ''
कंप्यूटर प्रोग्रामर और लेखक Fred Brooks makes an opposite बयान regarding programming in The mythical Man-Month : `` Show me your flowcharts and conceal your tables, and I shall continue to be mystified.
Show me अपना tables, और i won’t प्रायः need अपना flowcharts ; they’ll be obvious. ''
The phrase has भी been spoofed by John McCarthy, the famous computer scientist, to make the opposite पाइंट : `` As the चाइनीज say, 1001 words is worth more than a picture. ''
A season is a subdivision of the year, marked by changes in weather, पारिस्थितिकी, and घंटों of daylight.
Seasons परिणाम इससे the yearly क्रान्ति of the Earth around the सूर्य and the tilt of the Earth 's axis सापेक्ष to the प्लेन of revolution.
in शीतोष्ण और ध्रुवीय regions, the seasons are चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in the intensity of sunlight that पहुँच the धरती 's surface, विसंगतियाँ of जिससे may कारण पशु to go into hibernation or to migrate, और पौधे to be dormant.
During may, जून and July, the northern hemisphere is exposed to अधिक सीधा धूप because the गोलार्ध चेहरों the सूर्य.
The same is true of the southern hemisphere in नवम्बर, December and January.
it is the झुकाव of the धरती कि कल्याणकारी the सूर्य to be higher in the आसमान during the summer months जिससे increases the solar फ्लक्स.
However, due to seasonal lag, जून, जुलाई और अगस्त हैं the hottest महीने in the northern hemisphere and December, जनवरी and फ़रवरी are the hottest months in the southern hemisphere.
In शीतोष्ण और subpolar regions, generally चार calendar -based सीज़न ( साथ उनके adjectives ) are recognized : spring ( vernal ), गर्मियाँ ( estival ), autumn ( autumnal ) and शीत ( hibernal ).
However, ecologists mostly use a six season मॉडल for temperate climate regions कि includes pre-spring ( prevernal ) and लेट summer ( serotinal ) as पृथक सीज़न साथ with the परंपरागत चार.
Hot regions have two or तीन सीज़न ; the rainy ( or गीला, or मानसून ) season और the शुष्क season, और in some tropical areas, a cool or mild season.
in कुछ भाग of the संसार, special `` seasons '' are loosely पारिभाषित based on important कार्यक्रम such as a hurricane season, tornado season or a wildfire season.
The six ecological seasons
the four calendar सीज़न, depicted in an ancient Roman मोज़ेक from Tunisia
डच exports in 2006
at the time of writing the नीदरलैंड्स is the 17th largest अर्थव्यवस्था of the world.
( see : सूची of देशों by जीडीपी ( नाममात्र ) )
GDP per capita is roughly $ 42,000 which puts it in the top 10 of richest nations in the world ( देखिए : सूची of देशों by जीडीपी ( PPP ) per capita ).
between 1996 and 2000 सालाना economic विकास ( GDP ) averaged over 4 %, खूब ऊपर the European average.
Growth slowed considerably in 2001-05 as भाग of the वैश्विक economic slowdown.
2006 और 2007 however showed आर्थिक विकास of 3.4 % and 3.9 %.
The डच अर्थव्यवस्था was hit considerably by the जारी वैश्विक financial crisis और the ensuing European debt संकट.
अनेक बैंको went bankrupt, and a क्रमांक of others had to प्राप्त governmental aid.
in 2009 the economy अस्वीकृत साथ 3.5 %, followed by दो सालो of mild विकास.
the Dutch economy is currently in a मंदी again, साथ an economic मनाही of 0.5 % in 2012.
Inflation is at 3.2 % in फ़रवरी 2013.
बेरोजगारी has been relatively low compared to other eu राष्ट्र for decades but बाद mid-2012 it has देखी a तेज़ increase और in February 2013 it रै hit 7.7 %.
The नीदरलैंड्स प्रबंधित to maintain its aaa दरजा at least until कूच 2013 according to the तीन major credit rating एजेंसियों.
historically, the डच introduced and invented the भण्डार market by the merchandise व्यापार through डच वेस्ट इण्डिया कम्पनी.
The नीदरलैंड्स is a founding member of the European Union, the OECD और the संसार Trade Organization.
Loyal to the Game is the tenth studio एल्बम और sixth studio एल्बम by तुपाक Shakur.
it contains remixes of previously unreleased म्यूज़िक अंकित by shakur before उसके मौत in 1996.
Released in the संयुक्त States on December 14, 2004 ( दिसम्बर 12 in the United Kingdom ), वफ़ादार to the खेल was उत्पादित by एमिनेम.
the original panel of the दृश्य ; Meredith Vieira, Star Jones, डिब्बी matenopoulos and Barbara Walters in 1997.
The View is an American बात दिखाएँ broadcast on ABC that debuted in 1997 as भाग of the संजाल 's daytime programming block.
Created by बारबरा Walters और Bill geddie, जो दोनो also serve as the show 's कार्यपालिका निर्माता, the कार्यक्रम features a panel of महिलाओं as co-hosts.
Along साथ walters, the वर्तमान फलक includes Whoopi Goldberg, जो serves as the moderator, Joy Behar, Elisabeth hasselbeck, and Sherri Shepherd.
अंतरराष्ट्रीय संस्करण of the कार्यक्रम are aired in several देशों.
as of the 2012–13 ऋतु, its 16th, the View is the fourth-longest कार्यशील नेशनल दिन talk show in history, पीछे The Phil Donahue दिखाएँ ( 29 ), the variously-named Live !
programs ( 25 ), और the Oprah Winfrey Show ( 25 ).
Prunus virginiana, commonly called bitter-berry, chokecherry, वर्जिनिया bird चेरी और पश्चिमी chokecherry ( also ब्लैक chokecherry लिये P. virginiana var. demissa ), is a प्रजाति of bird चेरी ( prunus subgenus Padus ) native to उत्तर अमेरिका ; the प्राकृतिक historic range of P. virginiana शामिल सबसे of the continent, except लिये the far north and far south.
Los एंजिल्स International Airport is the primary विमानक्षेत्र सेवारत the Greater Los एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल, the second-most आबादी महानगर area in the संयुक्त States.
it is most प्रायः referred to by इसके iata विमानक्षेत्र code LAX, साथ the अक्षर सुनाया individually.
LAX is located in southwestern लॉस Angeles along the Pacific coast in the neighborhood of westchester, from the downtown कोर और is the primary airport of Los एंजिल्स World एयरपोर्ट ( LAWA ), an agency of the लॉस Angeles नगर government formerly ज्ञात as the Department of Airports.
In 2011, lax was the sixth व्यस्ततम विमानक्षेत्र in the संसार after Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport, बीजिंग पूंजी International विमानक्षेत्र, लंदन हीथ्रो विमानक्षेत्र, शिकागो o'hare International Airport, and टोकियो Haneda अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र साथ 61,862,052 यात्री.
the विमानक्षेत्र holds the अर्जी for `` the world 's व्यस्ततम उत्पत्ति and destination ( o & D ) विमानक्षेत्र '' in 2011 that involves non-connecting यात्री traffic.
It is also the तभी airport to रैंक among the top पाँच u.S. एयरपोर्ट लिये both passenger और कार्गो traffic.
LAX is the व्यस्ततम airport in the वृहद Los एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल, लकिन अन्य एयरपोर्ट including Bob आशा Airport, जॉन Wayne Airport, long Beach Airport, LA/Ontario अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र, और Palm Springs International Airport भी serve the प्रदेश.
LAX is also the व्यस्ततम विमानक्षेत्र in California and the वेस्ट Coast of the संयुक्त राज्य in शर्तें of flight परिचालन, passenger traffic and air कार्गो कार्यकलाप, leading it to be referred to as the `` Gateway to the Pacific रिम ``.
peyton विलियम्स मैनिंग ( born कूच 24, 1976 ) is an American football quarterback for the डेनवर broncos of the नेशनल Football League ( NFL ).
He played for the इंडियानापोलिस Colts for 14 seasons इससे 1998 to 2011.
He is the बेटे of former NFL क्वार्टरबैक Archie मैनिंग और an elder brother of नई York दिग्गज क्वार्टरबैक एली Manning.
मैनिंग played college फ़ुटबॉल for the University of Tennessee, अग्रणी the Volunteers to the 1997 सेक चैंपियनशिप in his वरिष्ठ season.
However, No. 3 Tennessee lost to the No. 2 Nebraska Cornhuskers 42-17 in the नारंगी Bowl giving नेब्रास्का and Tom Osborne their 3rd नेशनल championship in 4 सालो.
he थी चुनी by the Indianapolis Colts साथ the first overall चुनें in the 1998 एनएफएल Draft.
From 1998 to 2010, he led the कोल्टस to eight ( seven afc South and one AFC East ) प्रभाग championships, दो afc championships, and to a Super कटोरी championship ( सुपर Bowl XLI ).
he has won a record चार league सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी पुरस्कार, थी the सबसे valuable खिलाड़ी of Super कटोरी XLI, has महरूम नामित to बारह Pro Bowls, has twelve 4,000-yard गुजर सीज़न, और is the Indianapolis Colts ' all-time नेता in गुजर yards ( 54,828 ) और touchdown गुजरता ( 399 ).
in 2009, he was named the बेहतरीन player in the NFL and फॉक्स Sports साथ साथ Sports illustrated नामित him the NFL खिलाड़ी of the दशक of the 2000s.
In may 2011, he underwent neck सर्जरी to alleviate neck पीड़ा and arm weakness he dealt with दौरान the पिछला few seasons पहले हस्ताक्षर a five-year, $ 90 लाख अनुबंध एक्सटेंशन with the कोल्टस in July 2011.
मैनिंग had hoped to खेल in the 2011 season, but in सितंबर 2011, he underwent a much अधिक serious second surgery : a level एक cervical संलयन कार्यविधि.
Manning had never missed an एनएफएल खेल in उसके करियर, लकिन was मजबूर to मिस the संपूर्ण 2011 season.
He थी released by the Colts on कूच 7, 2012, and after an लगभग two-week period जहाँ he visited साथ और worked out for अनेक NFL टीमों, he हस्ताक्षरित साथ the डेनवर broncos on कूच 20, 2012.
मैनिंग 's pre-snap routine रै earned उसे the nickname, `` The शेरिफ '' और is एक of the most recognizable and parodied in the एनएफएल.
The Indianapolis कोल्टस ' almost विशेष उपयोग of the hurry-up ठोकर led to मैनिंग using an array of इशारों and मौखिक commands to कॉल the खेल at the लकीर of मुठभेड़ बल्कि than in the huddle.
the America मीनार of the American सामान्य बीच, the मुख्यालय of बेकर ह्यूजेस
बेकर Hughes is one of the world 's largest oilfield सेवाएं कंपनियाँ.
It operates in over 90 देशों, providing the oil and gas उद्योग with products और सेवाएं for खुदाई, गठन evaluation, पूर्णता, उत्पादन और reservoir consulting.
बेकर ह्यूजेस has इसके मुख्यालय in the America Tower in the अमरीकी General Center in Neartown, ह्यूस्टन.
Baker Hughes Incorporated थी formed when बेकर अंतरराष्ट्रीय and Hughes Tool Company मिलाया in 1987.
Baker Hughes operates worldwide with major offices in लिवरपूल, संयुक्त Kingdom ; सिंगापुर ; Dubai ; a research and maintenance facility in celle, जर्मनी ; lafayette, louisiana ; ह्यूस्टन, टेक्सास ; Pescara, इटली ; और Kuala lumpur, मलेशिया.
The कम्पनी is administered broadly in दो hemispheres : the पूर्वी hemisphere साथ पाँच regions ( यूरोपीय, Africa, the मध्य East, Asia Pacific और Russia/Caspian ) and the western hemisphere with चार regions ( कनाडा, US Land, US गल्फ, and Latin अमेरिका ).
प्रत्येक of these regions is subdivided into बाज़ार.
the संयुक्त States one- cent coin, commonly known as a penny, is a unit of currency equaling one one-hundredth of a United States डालर.
The cent 's symbol is ¢.
Its obverse रै प्रदर्शित the profile of President Abraham Lincoln since 1909, the centennial of उसके birth.
From 1959 ( the sesquicentennial of Lincoln 's birth ) to 2008, the रिवर्स featured the Lincoln मेमोरियल.
Four different reverse designs in 2009 सम्मानित lincoln 's 200th जन्मदिवस and a new, permanent रिवर्स – the संघ Shield – थी introduced in 2010.
The सिक्का is 0.75 inches ( 19.05 mm ) in व्यास और 0.061 inches ( 1.55 mm ) in मोटाई.
the U.S. Mint 's आधिकारिक नाम for a पैनी is `` '' और the u.S. राजकोष 's आधिकारिक name is `` one cent टुकड़ा ''.
The colloquial पद पैनी derives इससे the अंग्रेजों coin of the वही नाम, the pre-decimal version of which had a समान value.
in American English, pennies is the बहुवचन form, other बहुवचन फ़ॉर्म pence and पेशाब ( standard use in British अंग्रेज़ी ) are not used.
As of 2012, it costs the u.S. मिंट 2.00 सेंट to make a cent because of the cost of materials और उत्पादन.
This figure includes the Mint’s फिक्स्ड components for वितरण और fabrication, अनुमानित at $ 13 million in FY 2011.
It भी includes Mint ओवरहेड allocated to the पैनी, जिससे थी $ 17.7 million लिये 2011.
फिक्स्ड लागत and ओवरहेड would have to be अवशोषित by other circulating coins बगैर the पैनी.
the घाटा in profitability due to producing the one cent सिक्का in the संयुक्त States लिये the year of 2012 was $ 58,000,000.
इस was a पतला घटी from 2011, the year before, which था a उत्पादन loss of $ 60,200,000.
or अधिक specifically, are शोभायमान किस्में of domesticated आम कार्प ( Cyprinus carpio ) कि हैं kept for decorative purposes in बाहरी कोई तालाबों or water gardens.
Koi varieties are distinguished by coloration, patterning, और scalation.
Some of the major colors हैं white, black, red, yellow, blue, and cream.
the सबसे लोकप्रिय श्रेणी of कोई is the gosanke, जिससे is बना up of the Kohaku, taisho sanshoku, और Showa Sanshoku किस्में.
the American संघ of Government Employees ( AFGE ) is an अमरीकी मजदूर union representing over 650,000 employees of the federal सरकारी, about 5,000 employees of the ज़िला of कोलंबिया, और a few सौ निजी सेक्टर कर्मचारी, mostly in and around federal facilities.
afge is the largest संघ लिये civilian, non- postal संघीय employees and the largest संघ for ज़िला of Columbia कर्मचारी who रपट directly to the mayor ( i.e., outside of D.C. पब्लिक स्कूलों ).
It is संबद्ध साथ the afl-cio.
a लेट Silurian sporangium.
Green : A spore tetrad.
Blue : A spore bearing a trilete चिह्नित – the -shaped scar.
the spores are परिचय 30-35 μm across
The evolution of पौधे has resulted in increasing levels of complexity, from the earliest algal mats, through bryophytes, lycopods, ferns to the complex gymnosperms और angiosperms of आज.
जबकि many of the समूह जिससे appeared पहले continue to thrive, विशेषकर in the environments in जिससे they विकसित, लिये a time प्रत्येक new ग्रेड of संगठन became अधिक `` successful '' than इसके predecessors.
in the ordovician period, around, the पहला जमीन पौधे appeared.
ये began to diversify in the late Silurian काल, around, और the परिणाम of their diversification हैं displayed in उल्लेखनीय विवरण in an जल्दी devonian चट्टान assemblage इससे the rhynie chert.
इस chert preserved early पौधे in cellular detail, petrified in volcanic स्रोतों.
by the middle of the devonian काल, most of the सुविधाएँ recognised in पौधे आज are उपस्थित, including जड़ें, पत्ते और secondary लकडी ; और, by late devonian टाइम्स, बीज था विकसित.
Late Devonian plants था thereby पहुँचे a degree of sophistication that अनुमत them to रूप forests of tall पेड़.
विकासवादी innovation continued into the carboniferous काल and is स्टिल ongoing आज.
Most संयंत्र groups were relatively unscathed by the Permo-Triassic extinction इवेंट, although the structures of communities changed.
इस may have नियत the झाँकी लिये the रूप of the flowering पौधे in the Triassic ( ~ ), and उनके later diversification in the cretaceous and Paleogene.
The latest major समूह of plants to evolve were the grasses, which became important in the mid-Paleogene, इससे around.
the grasses, as खूब as many अन्य समूह, विकसित नई mechanisms of चयापचय to जीवित the low and warm, dry conditions of the ऊष्णकटिबन्ध over the पिछला.
the जीतना Super Bowl टोली receives the Vince Lombardi ट्रॉफी.
the सुपर Bowl is an annual American फ़ुटबॉल game कि determines the चैंपियन of the नेशनल Football लीग ( NFL ).
the प्रतियोगिता is आयोजित in an अमरीकी city कि is chosen तीन to four सालो beforehand, usually in warm-weather or domed sites.
चूंकि 1971, the विजेता of the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( AFC ) चैंपियनशिप खेल रै faced the विजेता of the National फ़ुटबॉल Conference ( nfc ) चैंपियनशिप खेल in the culmination of the एनएफएल playoffs.
पहले the 1970 विलय between the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल League ( afl ) और the National Football League ( NFL ), the दो लीग मिले in चार such contests.
the पहला दो were ज्ञात as the `` afl-nfl World चैंपियनशिप Game. ''
सुपर Bowl III in 1969 was the first such खेल कि carried the `` Super कटोरी '' moniker, the names `` सुपर Bowl I `` और `` Super कटोरी ii `` यहूद retroactively applied to the first two खेल.
The NFC /NFL लीड in Super Bowl विन्स with 25, while the AFC /AFL रै जीती 22.
अठारह अलग franchises, including टीमों that relocated to another city, have won the सुपर Bowl.
The Pittsburgh Steelers have won the most Super Bowls with six championships ( रिकार्ड 6–2 ), while दोनो the डलास cowboys और सैन फ्रांसिस्को 49ers have five wins प्रत्येक ( cowboys 5–3 ; 49ers 5–1 ).
Dallas and पिट्सबर्ग have the most सुपर कटोरी दिखावे साथ आठ, while the भैंस बिल्स have the most लगातार appearances साथ चार losses in a row from 1990 to 1993.
The New इंग्लैण्ड Patriots, डेनवर Broncos and मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स have also खोया a रिकार्ड चार सुपर Bowls.
भैंस and Minnesota are both 0–4, Denver is 2–4 and New इंग्लैण्ड is 3–4.
the रिकार्ड लिये consecutive wins is two और is shared by seven franchises : the 1966-67 Green खाड़ी Packers, the 1972-73 Miami Dolphins, the 1974-75 और 1978-79 Pittsburgh स्टीलर्स ( the तभी team to accomplish this feat twice ), the 1988-89 सैन फ्रांसिस्को 49ers, the 1992-93 डलास Cowboys, the 1997-98 डेनवर Broncos, and the 2003-04 New England देशप्रेमी.
the तभी टोली साथ multiple Super Bowl appearances और no losses is the बाल्टीमोर Ravens, जो in winning सुपर कटोरी xlvii unseated and replaced the 49ers in कि स्थिति.
चार current एनएफएल teams have never appeared in a Super कटोरी, सहित franchise relocations and renaming : the Cleveland Browns, डेट्रॉयट शेर, Jacksonville jaguars, और Houston texans, though दोनो the भूरा और Lions था won NFL चैंपियनशिप खेल prior to the सृष्टि of the सुपर Bowl.
Martin काउंटी is a काउंटी located in the u.S. state of टेक्सास.
As of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, its जनसांख्यिकी was 4,799.
Its seat is Stanton.
the काउंटी is नामित for Wylie मार्टिन, an early settler.
Martin County is one of 30 prohibition, or entirely dry, counties in the state of Texas.
Alkaline phosphatase ( alp, ALKP ) ( ) is a hydrolase enzyme responsible for removing phosphate groups इससे many types of molecules, including nucleotides, प्रोटीन, and alkaloids.
The process of निकालना the फास्फेट समूह is पुकारा dephosphorylation.
as the नाम suggests, क्षारीय phosphatases हैं most प्रभावी in an क्षारीय पर्यावरण.
It is sometimes used synonymously as मौलिक phosphatase.
triticale ( × triticosecale ), ( ) is a संकर of wheat ( Triticum ) और rye ( Secale ) पहला bred in laboratories during the late 19th century.
the grain थी originally करवाया in स्कॉटलैंड और स्वीडन.
Commercially available triticale is almost सदा a दूसरी पीढी hybrid, i.e., a क्रॉस between two kinds of प्राथमिक ( पहला क्रॉस ) triticales.
As a rule, triticale combines the yield संभावित and grain विशेषता of गेहूं साथ the disease और पर्यावरणीय tolerance ( including soil conditions ) of rye.
तभी recently has it been विकसित into a commercially सुगठित क्रॉप.
Depending on the cultivar, triticale can more or कम resemble either of its parents.
it is grown mostly for forage or चारा, although कुछ triticale-based भोजन can be purchased at health खाना स्टोर्स or are to be मिला in some breakfast cereals.
When crossing wheat और rye, गेहूं is used as the मादा parent और rye as the पुरूष जनक ( पराग दाता ).
The resulting संकर is बंध्य, and जरूर be treated with colchicine to induce polyploidy और यूँ the ability to reproduce itself.
The primary producers of triticale हैं कैंडल, जर्मनी, France, Belarus और ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
In 2009, according to the Food और कृषि Organization ( fao ), 15.0 लाख tons यहूद harvested in 29 countries आरपार the world.
The triticale संकरण हैं all amphidiploid, which means the plant is द्विगुणित लिये two genomes निकला इससे different प्रजाति.
In other शब्द, triticale is an allotetraploid.
in पहले years, most कार्य was done on octoploid triticale.
Different ploidy स्तर have been निर्मित और evaluated over time.
The tetraploids दिखाया little promise, but hexaploid triticale थी कामयाब enough to ढूँढें वाणिज्यिक अनुप्रयोग.
The CIMMYT triticale improvement कार्यक्रम wanted to improve food production और पोषण in developing countries.
triticale रै potential in the उत्पादन of ब्रैड and other खाना उत्पाद, ऐसे as cookies, पास्ता, pizza dough and नाश्ता cereals.
The प्रोटीन content is higher than that of wheat, although the glutenin fraction is less.
The grain रै also been stated to have उच्चतर स्तर of lysine than गेहूं.
assuming increased acceptance, the milling industry will have to adapt to triticale, as the milling तकनीकों employed for wheat are मुलम्मा to triticale.
Sell et al. मिला triticale could be प्रयुक्त as a फीड अनाज, and later research found इसके starch थी particularly readily digested.
as a feed अनाज, triticale is already खूब established और of high आर्थिक importance.
It has received attention as a संभावित उर्जा क्रॉप, और research is फिलहाल होने conducted on the उपयोग of the क्रॉप 's बायोमास in bioethanol उत्पादन.
`` Puff, the जादू Dragon '' is a song लिखा by लियोनार्ड lipton और पीटर yarrow, and made popular by Yarrow 's group पीटर, Paul और Mary in a 1963 रिकॉर्डिंग.
the song हासिल great लोकप्रियता.
a college football national championship in the highest level of collegiate खेल in the संयुक्त States, फिलहाल the नेशनल कॉलेजिएट Athletic Association ( NCAA ) Division i Football कटोरी subdivision ( FBS ), is a नामांकन awarded annually by विभिन्न third-party संगठन to their selection ( s ) of the बेहतरीन कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल team ( s ).
Division i FBS ( formerly प्रभाग i-a ) फ़ुटबॉल is the तभी NCAA sport in जिससे a yearly चैंपियन is not determined by an NCAA मंजूर चैंपियनशिप event.
क्युकी the championship team is नहीं संकल्पित by a ncaa championship or टूर्नामेंट इवेंट, it is sometimes unofficially referred to as a `` mythical नेशनल championship ``.
चूंकि the ncaa, the खेल 's शासी देह, करता नहीं determine or घोषित a national champion in इस फ़ील्ड, determination of such has प्रायः engendered controversy.
a चैंपियनशिप टोली is independently declared by various individuals and संगठन, often referred to as `` selectors ''.
ये choices हैं sometimes at हालात साथ प्रत्येक other.
जबकि the NCAA रै never officially endorsed an सालाना चैंपियनशिप team, it रै प्रलेखित the चुनाव of several selectors in the आधिकारिक NCAA फ़ुटबॉल Bowl subdivision Records.
in जोड, विभिन्न third पार्टी विश्लेषकों have independently published उनके own सूचियाँ of what they have संकल्पित to be the सबसे legitimate selections for प्रत्येक ऋतु.
These हैं भी प्रायः at odds साथ प्रत्येक अन्य as खूब as individual स्कूल 's claims on नेशनल championships, which, लिये any particular season, may or may not correlate to the selections published elsewhere.
फिलहाल, two widely पहचाना national champions selectors हैं the संबद्ध Press, which conducts a poll of फ़ुटबॉल sportswriters, and the यूएसए Today Coaches ' पोल, a पोल of American फ़ुटबॉल कोच संघ active कोच कि is contractually obligated to नाम the विजेता of the Bowl चैंपियनशिप Series championship खेल as its नेशनल champion.
the मिल्वौकी ब्रेवर्स हैं a पेशेवर बेसबॉल team आधारित in मिल्वौकी, Wisconsin.
The टोली is a सदस्य of the Central प्रभाग of Major League Baseball 's नेशनल लीग and plays its home games at मिलर Park.
The team is so नामित because of the नगर 's संघ साथ the brewing industry.
The Washington नागरिकों are a पेशेवर baseball टोली based in Washington, d.c.
The Nationals are a member of the East प्रभाग of the नेशनल League of प्रमुख League बेसबॉल ( MLB ).
The team 's घर ballpark is नागरिकों Park, स्तिथ on दक्षिण Capitol गली in Southeast D.C., निकट the Anacostia नदी.
the park खोली in 2008, replacing RFK Stadium, the team 's घर इससे 2005 to 2007.
the नागरिकों ' नाम गर्भाशयी from the पूर्व Washington baseball टोली कि था the वही name ( प्रयुक्त interchangeably साथ Senators ).
उनके nickname is `` the Nats '' —a shortened संस्करण कि was also used by the old D.C. टीमों.
An expansion franchise, the क्लबों थी संस्थापित in as the Montreal Expos, the पहला major लीग टोली in कनाडा.
They यहूद आधारित in Montreal, क्यूबेक, and निभाई उनके home games at jarry पार्क स्टेडियम and बाद in ओलम्पिक स्टेडियम.
in, the expos won a प्रभाग चैंपियनशिप, won उनके first-ever playoff श्रेणी by defeating the Philadelphia फ़िलीज़, 3–2, and उन्नत to the National लीग चैंपियनशिप Series, जहाँ वे would go on to खोना to the लॉस एंजिल्स डॉजर्स, 3–2, in their only postseason रूप दौरान the strike-shortened season.
The expos had their उच्चतम winning percentage in the strike-shortened ऋतु of, जब the टोली had the बेहतरीन record in बेसबॉल.
The टोली 's subsequent shedding of players caused प्रशंसक interest to बूँद बंद.
बाद the 2001 season, एमएलबी माना revoking the team 's मताधिकार, साथ साथ either the मिनेसोटा Twins or the tampa खाड़ी Devil किरणें.
बाद होने purchased by एमएलबी in 2002, the टोली थी moved before the ऋतु to वॉशिंगटन और renamed the नागरिकों, the पहला relocation चूंकि the दूसरी वॉशिंगटन सीनेटरों स्थानांतरित to Arlington, Texas, and became the टेक्सास Rangers in.
the नागरिकों हैं एक of दो एमएलबी franchises, और the तभी एक in the नेशनल लीग, कि रै never played in a World श्रेणी ( the Seattle मैरीनेर्स हैं the other ).
a निर्भर शुल्क ( in the United राज्य ) or conditional शुल्क ( in England and Wales ) is any शुल्क लिये सेवाएं provided where the fee is payable only if वहीँ is a favourable परिणाम.
in the law, it is पारिभाषित as a `` शुल्क चार्ज लिये a वकील 's services तभी if the मुकदमा is कामयाब or is favorably settled आउट of अदालत....
Contingent fees हैं usually गणना as a प्रतिशत of the क्लाएंट 's जाल recovery. ''
In the English विधिक system, it is generally referred to as no जीत no fee.
A conditional fee agreement between a विधि firm and a client.
the usual रूप of this agreement is that the solicitor होगा take a law मामला on the समझना कि if lost, no भुगतान is made.
however, if the मामला is won, the वकील होगा be entitled to the normal शुल्क आधारित on hourly बिलिंग, प्लस a success fee.
The success fee in England must be as a percentage no greater than 100 % of the सामान्य fee.
This contrasts साथ the contingency शुल्क in the us, जिससे देता the कामयाब attorney a प्रतिशत of the damages awarded in एहसान of उसके क्लाएंट.
This makes it easier लिये the poor to pursue their सिविल rights since वरना, to मुकदमा someone for a अपकृत्य, एक must पहला be धनवान पर्याप्त to pursue such वाद in the पहला प्लेस.
However, because of the ऊँची risk, few attorneys will लो मामले on a आकस्मिकता आधार unless वे feel the मामला has good merit.
According to a 2004 किताब by विधि प्राध्यापक हर्बर्ट Kritzer, contingent शुल्क were अनुमत as of कि year in the following countries : Australia, ब्राज़ील, Canada, the Dominican गणतंत्र, France, Greece, आयरलैंड, Japan, नई जीलैंड, the United Kingdom and the United States.
वे हैं also allowed in निजी injury क्रियाएँ in लिथुआनिया.
recently, they have been अनुमत in Belgium as well.
A Convocation ( लैटिन 'calling साथ ', translating the Greek ecclesia ) is a group of लोगों formally assembled लिये a special purpose.
Sons of Anarchy is a टेलीविज़न नाटक श्रेणी created by कर्ट Sutter परिचय the lives of a close-knit outlaw मोटरसाइकिल क्लबों operating in Charming, a fictional town in California 's सेंट्रल Valley.
The दिखाएँ centers on protagonist जैक्सन `` Jax '' teller ( चार्ली Hunnam ), the then-vice president of the club, जो begins questioning the क्लबों और himself.
Sons of Anarchy premiered on सितंबर 3, 2008, on केबल network FX.
The third ऋतु of the series आकर्षित an औसत of 4.9 million दर्शक प्रति week, बनाना it FX 's highest rated series कभी, surpassing fx 's अन्य हिट्स the Shield, nip/tuck, and Rescue me.
On February 3, 2012, Sons of Anarchy थी नवीनीकृत लिये दो अतिरिक्त seasons, a पांचवां and a छठे.
those involved in the production of the series imply that a सातवाँ and final season is creator Kurt sutter 's plan.
The Grímsvötn sub-glacial lakes ( ; vötn = `` waters '', singular : ) and the ज्वालामुखी of the same नाम हैं in south-east Iceland.
वे are in the हाइलैंड्स of Iceland at the northwestern side of the vatnajökull ice-cap.
The झीलों are at, at an उन्नयन of.
beneath the lakes is the magma कक्ष of the grímsvötn ज्वालामुखी.
Grímsvötn is a basaltic volcano which has the उच्चतम फटना आवृत्ति of all the volcanoes in Iceland and रै a southwest-northeast-trending fissure प्रणाली.
The विशाल climate-impacting laki fissure eruption of 1783–1784 थी a भाग of the same फिशर system.
grímsvötn was erupting at the वही time as laki during 1783, but जारी to erupt जबतक 1785.
Because सबसे of the ज्वालामुखी झूठ underneath Vatnajökull, most of इसके eruptions have been subglacial और the बातचीत of magma and meltwater from the बर्फ कल्याणकारी phreatomagmatic explosive activity.
On 21 May 2011 at 19:25 utc, an फटना began, with ऊँची plumes accompanied by अनेक earthquakes, resulting in रद्दीकरण of 900 flights in आइसलैंड, और in the संयुक्त किंगडम, Greenland, जर्मनी, आयरलैंड and Norway on 22–25 May.
Until 25 may the eruption scale था महरूम larger than कि of the 2010 eruption of Eyjafjallajökull.
The eruption stopped at 02:40 UTC on 25 may 2011, हालांकि there थी कुछ explosive कार्यकलाप from the tephra vents affecting तभी the area around the crater.
vetting is the प्रक्रम of performing a background जाँच on someone before offering them नियुक्ति, डाक्टरेट an award, इत्यादि.
A prospective व्यक्ति or प्रोजेक्ट may be vetted पहले making a hiring निर्णय.
In जोड, in प्रज्ञा महफ़िल, एसेट हैं vetted to determine their उपयोगिता.
पूर्व मुख्यालय और वर्तमान corporate कार्यालयों
caesars Entertainment Corporation ( formerly harrah 's entertainment इससे 1995 to 2010 ) is an अमरीकी पब्लिक gaming corporation that owns and operates over 50 casinos, होटल, and seven गोल्फ़ पाठ्यक्रम under अनेक brands.
the company, आधारित in Paradise, Nevada, is the largest गेमिंग कम्पनी in the world, with annual revenues of $ 8.9 billion ( 2010 ).
caesars is a पब्लिक company, with a joint venture of Apollo वैश्विक Management और Texas Pacific Group ownig a विशाल portion of the stack और blackstone समूह also पकड़कर a significant हिस्सेदारी.
the नाम change from `` Harrah 's entertainment Inc. '' to `` Caesars entertainment Corporation '' was made official on November 23, 2010.
Harrah 's remains a key ब्रांड in the कम्पनी.
On November 5, 2010, Harrah 's announced an आरंभिक public offering of 31,250,000 shares but retracted this offering on नवम्बर 19.
a स्थाई निवासी in कनाडा is a person जो is not a Canadian नागरिक लकिन जो has महरूम granted अनुमति to live और work in Canada without any time सीमा on उसके or उसके रहो.
a स्थाई resident must सजीव in Canada for two सालो out of प्रत्येक पाँच or risk खोने that status.
a Permanent निवासी holds अनेक of the वही अधिकारों and responsibilities as a कनाडाई नागरिक, among अन्य the सही to work लिये कोई enterprise as well as for the federal or प्रांतीय सरकारी ( under restriction of अभिगम rights to निश्चित regulated professions ).
the प्रमुख मतभेद are that residents can नहीं :
vote in elections in कनाडा ;
चलाएं for elected office ;
hold Canadian passports ;
In जोड, they may be allowed to जुड़ें Canada 's हथियारबंद forces if the नेशनल ब्याज होता नहीं be prejudiced.
स्थाई residents also risk deportation for गंभीर crimes committed जबकि निवासी in कनाडा.
स्थाई निवासियों may apply लिये कनाडाई citizenship बाद three years in Canada ; however this is not अनिवार्य.
एरिका केन is a fictional character from the American एबीसी दिन soap ओपेरा सब my children.
the अक्षर was portrayed by actress सुसान lucci from her debut on January 16, 1970 until the last broadcast television एपीसोड aired on सितंबर 23, 2011.
On फ़रवरी 11, 2013, it थी announced that lucci will guest-star on the prospect Park 's continuation of सब my Children.
In the u.S., Erica is considered to be the सबसे popular character in soap opera इतिहास.
regarding the north-american मार्केट, TV Guide काल्स her `` unequivocally the most famous साबुन opera अक्षर in the history of दिन tv '', and शामिल उसके in उनके 2013 सूची of the 60 Nastiest खलनायक of सब समय.
a आलेख of the us cpi from 1913 to 2006 ( in blue ), और इसके प्रतिशत सालाना बदलें ( in red )
A उपभोक्ता price index ( cpi ) उपायों changes in the price स्तर of a market बास्केट of उपभोक्ता goods और services खरीदा by households.
The cpi in the संयुक्त राज्य is पारिभाषित by the ब्यूरो of Labor आंकडे as `` a माप of the average change over समय in the कीमतें paid by शहरी उपभोक्ता for a मार्केट बास्केट of consumer goods और services. ''
The CPI is a statistical अनुमान constructed using the कीमतें of a sample of representative items जिनकी prices हैं एकत्रित periodically.
Sub-indexes और sub-sub-indexes are computed for different श्रेणी और sub-categories of goods और सेवाएं, होने संयुक्त to produce the overall अनुक्रमणिका साथ weights reflecting उनके साझा in the कुल of the उपभोक्ता expenditures covered by the index.
it is one of several price indices calculated by सबसे national statistical एजेंसियों.
the annual प्रतिशत बदलें in a cpi is used as a measure of inflation.
A cpi can be used to index ( i.e., समायोजन for the effect of inflation ) the real value of मजदूरी, salaries, pensions, लिये regulating कीमतें and for deflating monetary magnitudes to show परिवर्तन in रियल मान.
in most देशों, the CPI is, along with the जनसांख्यिकी census और the USA नेशनल आय और Product Accounts, एक of the most closely watched national आर्थिक आंकडे.
knocking on wood, or to टच लकडी, refers to the apotropaic tradition in western folklore of literally touching/knocking on लकडी, or merely stating कि you हैं doing or intend same, in order to avoid `` tempting fate `` after बनाना a favourable observation, a boast, or declaration concerning एक 's अपना मौत.
Rocker arm
generally referred to भीतर the context of the internal दहन engine of automotive, समुद्री, motorcycle और reciprocating विमानन engines, the रॉकर arm is an oscillating lever कि conveys रेडियल movement इससे the कैम पालि into रैखिक movement at the poppet valve to खोलें it.
एक end is raised and lowered by a rotating पालि of the camshaft ( either directly or via a tappet ( lifter ) और pushrod ) while the अन्य end अधिनियमों on the valve stem.
जब the camshaft पालि उठाता the outside of the भुजा, the inside presses down on the वाल्व स्टेम, opening the valve.
When the बाहर of the भुजा is permitted to वापसी due to the camshafts रोटेशन, the अंदर rises, allowing the valve spring to close the वाल्व.
The ड्राइव कैम is driven by the camshaft.
इस pushes the rocker arm up and down परिचय the trunnion pin or rocker शाफ्ट.
Friction may be घटाया at the पाइंट of सम्पर्क with the valve stem by a रोलर cam follower.
A समान व्यवस्था transfers the गति via another roller कैम follower to a दूसरी rocker arm.
This rotates about the rocker शाफ्ट, and हस्तांतरण the motion via a tappet to the poppet valve.
In इस मामला इस opens the intake valve to the बेलन सिर.
the प्रभावी leverage of the भुजा ( और यूँ the फ़ोर्स it can exert on the valve stem ) is determined by the रॉकर arm ratio, the ratio of the अलहदा इससे the rocker arm 's बीच of रोटेशन to the tip विभाजित by the अलहदा from the center of rotation to the पाइंट acted on by the camshaft or pushrod.
Current automotive design favors rocker arm ratios of about 1.5:1 to 1.8:1.
however, in the पास्ट smaller धनात्मक ratios ( the valve lift is greater than the कैम लिफ्ट ) और भी ऋणात्मक ratios ( वाल्व लिफ्ट smaller than the cam लिफ्ट ) have महरूम प्रयुक्त.
Many pre-WW2 engines use 1:1 ( न्यूट्रल ) ratios.
लिये car इंजन the rocker arms are generally steel stampings, providing a reasonable balance of शक्ति, weight और किफायती लागत.
क्युकी the rocker arms हैं, in part, reciprocating वज़न, excessive mass विशेषकर at the लीवर ends limits the engine 's ability to reach ऊँची operating speeds.
`` The रात्रि the Lights Went Out in Georgia '' is a Southern गोथिक song written by songwriter Bobby Russell and performed in 1972 by his then-wife vicki Lawrence.
reba mcentire बाद covered it in 1991.
Recorded in लेट अक्तूबर 1972 in United/Western Studios on सूर्यास्त in Hollywood और released less than two weeks बाद in November 1972, the सोंग centers around the older bhai of the narrator, falsely convicted of and चलाया for a murder, which the narrator herself रै वचनबद्ध.
in डाक mail, a वापसी पता is an सुस्पष्ट समावेश of the address of the person sending the संदेश.
it provides the recipient ( and sometimes प्राधिकृत intermediaries ) साथ a अर्थात् to determine कैसा to respond to the sender of the संदेश if needed.
the return पता need नहीं include a sender 's name, लकिन should शामिल पता or p.o. बक्सा details in the same रास्ता as the डिलीवरी पता चाहिए.
in some countries, the return address is conventionally स्तिथ in the अपर बाएँ हाथ कोने of the लिफाफा, कार्ड, or label.
in the United किंगडम, the वापसी address is प्रायः लगाई on the रिवर्स of the envelope, निकट the शीर्ष.
Businesses प्रायः उपयोग लिफाफे preprinted साथ a return address.
अनेक individuals have sheets of adhesive labels preprinted साथ उनके home पता to affix to उनके correspondence.
Charities sometimes include ऐसे चादरें in mailshots.
रोल्स of वापसी Address लेबल्स can be purchased from कंपनियाँ that sell personalized labels to provide individuals an easy way to peel और स्टिक return address labels to their लिफाफे.
The वापसी address is नहीं required on डाक mail.
however, lack of a वापसी पता prevents the postal सेवा इससे होने able to वापसी the मद if it proves undeliverable ; ऐसे as इससे क्षति, postage due, or invalid गंतव्य.
Such mail may यूँ become dead letter मेल.
चाहिए the return address be of a अलग state or country, the मेल may be routed through कि स्थान लिये ease of वापसी.
A तंत्रिका guidance conduit ( भी referred to as an कृत्रिम तंत्रिका conduit or कृत्रिम तंत्रिका graft, as opposed to an autograft ) is an कृत्रिम means of guiding axonal regrowth to facilitate nerve regeneration और is one of अनेक नैदानिक treatments लिये nerve चोटों.
When सीधा suturing of the two आउट of a severed तंत्रिका can नहीं be accomplished without टेंशन, the standard नैदानिक treatment लिये परिधीय nerve चोटों is autologous तंत्रिका कलम.
Due to the limited उपलब्धता of दाता tissue और functional recovery in autologous तंत्रिका कलम, neural ऊतक अभियान्त्रिकी research रै focused on the development of bioartificial nerve मार्गदर्शन conduits as an alternative treatment, especially for विशाल defects.
Similar तकनीकों हैं भी होने explored लिये nerve repair in the स्पाइनल cord लकिन तंत्रिका regeneration in the सेंट्रल बेचैन प्रणाली मुद्राएँ a वृहद चुनौती क्युकी its axons do not regenerate appreciably in their देशी environment.
The creation of कृत्रिम conduits is भी ज्ञात as entubulation because the तंत्रिका ends and intervening gap हैं enclosed भीतर a ट्यूब रचित of biological or सिंथेटिक सामग्री.
Whether the conduit is in the form of a biologic ट्यूब, synthetic ट्यूब or tissue-engineered conduit, it should सुकर neurotropic and neurotrophic संचार between the proximal and distal ends of the तंत्रिका गैप, block बाह्य inhibitory factors, and provide a physical guidance लिये axonal regrowth.
the सबसे basic उद्देश्य of a nerve मार्गदर्शन conduit is to combine physical, chemical, and biological cues अंतर्गत conditions कि will foster tissue गठन.
सामग्री that have been used to मेक biologic tubes include blood vessels and skeletal muscles, while nonabsorbable and bioabsorbable synthetic tubes have महरूम बना from silicone and polyglycolide respectively.
tissue-engineered तंत्रिका guidance conduits हैं a संयोजन of many तत्व : scaffold ढांचा, scaffold material, cellular therapies, neurotrophic factors और biomimetic सामग्री.
the चुनाव of जिससे शारीरिक, रासायनिक and biological cues to use is आधारित on the properties of the nerve पर्यावरण, which is critical in बनाना the most desirable environment लिये axon regeneration.
the कारकों that कंट्रोल material चयन include biocompatibility, biodegradability, mechanical अखंडता, controllability दौरान nerve growth, implantation and sterilization.
Hardcore साहूकार is an अमरीकी वास्तविकता television series produced by rdf USA ( बाद Zodiak USA ) and Richard Dominick प्रोडक्शन्स for trutv परिचय the day-to-day परिचालन of अमरीकी Jewelry और Loan, a family-owned pawn दूकान located at 20450 Greenfield सड़क, between 8 मील Road और the जॉन C. आवास फ्रीवे in Detroit, Michigan.
The श्रेणी premiered on अगस्त 16, 2010, delivering two million दर्शक, सेटिंग a रिकार्ड as truTV 's most-watched series प्रीमियर कभी.
Amoxicillin bp
Amoxicillin ( इन ), formerly amoxycillin ( BAN ), और abbreviated amox, is a moderate-spectrum, bacteriolytic, β-lactam antibiotic प्रयुक्त to treat bacterial infections caused by susceptible microorganisms.
It is प्रायः the drug of चुनाव within the क्लास क्युकी it is बेहतर absorbed, following मौखिक प्रशासन, than other β-lactam एंटीबायोटिक.
Amoxicillin is एक of the most common एंटीबायोटिक prescribed लिये children.
the ड्रग became available in 1972.
amoxicillin is susceptible to degradation by β-lactamase -producing जीवाणु, जिससे are resistant to a broad वर्णक्रम of β-lactam antibiotics, such as पेनिसिलीन.
लिये this कारण, it is प्रायः combined साथ clavulanic acid, a β-lactamase inhibitor.
This increases effectiveness by reducing इसके susceptibility to β-lactamase प्रतिरोध.
Lyndon baines Johnson ( August 27, 1908 – जनवरी 22, 1973 ), प्रायः referred to as LBJ, थी the 36th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1963–1969 ), a position he assumed बाद उसके service as the 37th Vice President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ).
he is एक of तभी चार people who परोसा in all चार निर्वाचित federal कार्यालयों of the United States : Representative, सीनेटर, वाइस President, and अध्यक्ष.
जॉनसन, a Democrat from Texas, served as a United राज्य Representative इससे 1937–1949 and as a Senator from 1949–1961, including six years as संयुक्त राज्य Senate बहुमत नेता, two as Senate अल्पसंख्यक Leader और दो as Senate बहुमत चाबुक.
बाद campaigning unsuccessfully लिये the Democratic नामांकन in 1960, जॉनसन was पूछा by John F. Kennedy to be उसके running mate लिये the 1960 presidential चुनाव.
जॉनसन succeeded to the presidency following the हत्या of John F. कैनेडी on November 22, 1963, completed Kennedy 's term and was elected अध्यक्ष in उसके own right, winning by a large margin over Barry goldwater in the 1964 चुनाव.
Johnson थी greatly supported by the Democratic Party और as President, he थी जिम्मेदार लिये डिजाइनिंग the `` ग्रेट समाज `` विधान that शामिल laws कि upheld सिविल अधिकारों, public प्रसारण, Medicare, medicaid, environmental protection, aid to शिक्षा, और his `` War on Poverty. ''
जॉनसन was प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके domineering व्यक्तित्व and the `` Johnson उपचार, '' his coercion of शक्तिशाली politicians in अनुक्रम to advance विधान.
Meanwhile, Johnson escalated American भागीदारी in the वियतनाम युद्ध, इससे 16,000 अमरीकी advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 कॉम्बैट सैनिकों in early 1968, as American हताहत soared और the सलाम process bogged bas.
The involvement stimulated a large एंग्री antiwar गति based विशेषकर on university campuses in the u.S. and abroad.
Summer दंगे broke आउट in सबसे प्रमुख शहरों बाद 1965, और अपराधों rates soared, as उसके प्रतिद्वंद्वियों raised मांगे लिये `` law और order '' नीतियों.
the Democratic पार्टी split in multiple feuding factions, and after Johnson did poorly in the 1968 New Hampshire primary, he ended उसके बोली लिये reelection.
रिपब्लिकन रिचर्ड निक्सन थी elected to सफल him.
इतिहासकारों argue that Johnson 's प्रेसिडेंसी चिह्नित the peak of आधुनिक liberalism in the United States after the New सौदे era.
Johnson is क्रमित favorably by some historians because of उसके domestic policies.
the Big बंग Theory डाल at कॉमिक Con 2009, from left : Kunal Nayyar, साइमन Helberg, kaley Cuoco, जिम पार्सन्स, और Johnny Galecki
the American sitcom The Big Bang सिद्धान्त, निर्मित और कार्यपालिका produced by चक Lorre and विधेयक prady, premiered on सीबीएस on सितंबर 24, 2007.
the show centers on five characters : roommates शेल्डन कूपर and लियोनार्ड Hofstadter, दो Caltech physicists ; पैनी, a वेट्रेस and aspiring अभिनेत्री who जीवनदान आरपार the hall ; and Leonard and शेल्डन 's मित्रों and co-workers aerospace engineer हावर्ड Wolowitz, और astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali.
Over समय, अनेक supporting characters have been प्रचारित to starring roles : Leslie Winkle ( season 1 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 2 regular ; ऋतु 3 guest ), a physicist सहयोगी, और, at अलग times, a प्रेमी of both लियोनार्ड और हावर्ड ; bernadette rostenkowski-wolowitz ( ऋतु 3 recurring ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित ), a microbiologist, हावर्ड 's fiancée और subsequent बीवी, और पूर्व part-time waitress alongside पैनी ; neuroscientist एमी farrah Fowler ( season 3 guest ; season 4 recurring ; ऋतु 4-present regular ), जो joins the समूह after होने matched to शेल्डन on a डेटिंग जालस्थल ; और कॉमिक book store-owner, Stuart खिलते ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; ऋतु 6-present regular ), जो replaces हावर्ड as राज 's best dost जब हावर्ड is in स्पेस.
the दिखाएँ also सुविधाएँ numerous supporting characters, प्रत्येक of whom plays a prominent भूमिका in a small समूह of episodes.
The अमरीकी सिविल War ( acw ), also ज्ञात as the War between the States or बस the सिविल युद्ध ( देखिए naming ), थी a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा from 1861 to 1865 between the United राज्य ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) और several Southern slave राज्य कि declared their secession और formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
the war था its origin in the समस्या of गुलामी, विशेषकर the extension of slavery into the पश्चिमी territories.
Foreign शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene.
After four सालो of bloody combat that बाएँ over 600,000 soldiers मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the South 's अवसंरचना, the Confederacy collapsed, गुलामी थी abolished, और the difficult Reconstruction प्रक्रम of restoring नेशनल unity and guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential election, republicans, led by Abraham lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United राज्य ' territories.
lincoln जीती, लकिन before his inauguration on March 4, 1861, सात cotton-based स्लेव states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्ष James बुकानन and the आवक republicans rejected secession as illegal.
lincoln 's inaugural पता घोषित his प्रशासन होता not initiate civil war.
Eight remaining slave राज्य continued to reject calls लिये secession.
Confederate forces जब्त numerous federal दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the confederacy.
A सलाम सम्मेलन failed to ढूँढें a compromise, और दोनो sides prepared for युद्ध.
The Confederates assumed that European देशों यहूद so निर्भर on `` King कपास `` कि वे would intervene ; none did and none पहचाना the नई confederate States of अमेरिका.
hostilities began on April 12, 1861, जब Confederate forces fired upon फोर्ट Sumter, a कुंजी फोर्ट held by संघ सैनिकों in South कैरोलिना.
lincoln called for प्रत्येक state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently, four more slave राज्य joined the Confederacy, bringing their कुल to ग्यारह.
the Union soon controlled the किनारा राज्य और established a नवल नाकेबंदी कि अबोध the southern अर्थव्यवस्था.
the Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The पतझड़ 1862 confederate campaign into Maryland ( a संघ state ) ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British हस्तक्षेप.
Lincoln issued the emancipation Proclamation, जिससे बना समाप्ति slavery a युद्ध goal.
To the वेस्ट, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river नेवी, तब much of their western armies, और the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the मिसिसिपी नदी.
in 1863, रॉबर्ट E. ली 's confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the बैटल of Gettysburg.
पश्चिमी सफलताओं led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union सेना in 1864.
In the Western थिएटर, विलियम T. Sherman drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर अटलांटा और marched to the sea, destroying confederate अवसंरचना along the रास्ता.
the संघ marshaled the resources and जनशक्ति to आक्रमण the Confederacy इससे all directions, और could afford to fight battles of अपघर्षण through the overland Campaign towards Richmond, the confederate capital.
the defending confederate army failed, अग्रणी to Lee 's आत्मसमर्पण to Grant at appomattox अदालत House on अप्रैल 9, 1865.
the अमरीकी सिविल War थी one of the earliest true industrial युद्धों.
railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, खानों, shipyards, बैंको, परिवहन and खाना आपूर्तियाँ all foreshadowed संसार War I.
It remains the deadliest war in अमरीकी इतिहास, resulting in the मौतों of an estimated 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined number of civilian हताहत.
Historian जॉन huddleston estimates the मौत टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of all उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
Human evolution refers to the evolutionary process अग्रणी up to the रूप of modern humans.
जबकि it began साथ the पिछला आम पूर्वज of सब जीवन, the टॉपिक usually कवर तभी the विकासवादी इतिहास of primates, in particular the genus Homo, and the emergence of होमो sapiens as a पृथक species of hominids ( or `` ग्रेट apes '' ).
The study of इंसान evolution involves अनेक scientific disciplines, including शारीरिक मानवशास्त्र, primatology, archaeology, भाषाविज्ञान, evolutionary मनोविज्ञान, embryology और आनुवंशिकी.
according to genetic अध्ययन, primates diverged from other स्तनधारियों about in the Late Cretaceous period, and the earliest जीवाश्मों appear in the Paleocene, around.
the family Hominidae diverged इससे the hylobatidae ( Gibbon ) family 15-20 million years पहले, and around, the Ponginae ( orangutans ), diverged इससे the Hominidae परिवार.
bipedalism is the basic adaption of the Hominin line, और the earliest bipedal hominin is considered to be either sahelanthropus or orrorin, with ardipithecus, a full bipedal, coming somewhat later.
The gorilla और चिंपैंजी diverged around the वही समय, परिचय 4-6 million सालो ago, और either Sahelanthropus or orrorin may be हमारी पिछला साझा ancestor with them.
the early bipedals आखिरकार evolved into the australopithecines and बाद the genus Homo.
the earliest documented सदस्यों of the genus होमो हैं होमो habilis जिससे evolved around ; the earliest species लिये which there is positive evidence of use of stone टूल्स.
the दिमाग of these early hominins were about the वही आकार as कि of a चिंपैंजी.
दौरान the next लाख सालो a process of encephalization began, और with the arrival of Homo erectus in the चट्टान record, cranial क्षमता था doubled to 850 cm3.
Homo erectus और होमो ergaster were the पहला of the hominina to leave अफ़्रीकी, और ये प्रजाति spread through Africa, Asia, and Europe between.
It is believed कि these species यहूद the first to use आग और जटिल टूल्स.
according to the हाल अफ़्रीकी Ancestry सिद्धान्त, आधुनिक humans विकसित in Africa संभवतः इससे होमो heidelbergensis, होमो rhodesiensis or Homo antecessor and migrated out of the महाद्वीप कुछ 50,000 to 100,000 सालो ago, replacing लोकल populations of Homo erectus, Homo denisova, Homo floresiensis और Homo neanderthalensis.
archaic होमो sapiens, the forerunner of anatomically modern इंसानो, evolved between 400,000 and 250,000 years ago.
हाल DNA प्रमाण suggests कि several haplotypes of neanderthal उत्पत्ति are present among सब non-african populations, और Neanderthals और other hominids, such as Denisova hominin may have contributed up to 6 % of their genome to present-day humans. < ref name= '' 10.1126/science.1209202 '' > anatomically आधुनिक humans evolved from archaic Homo sapiens in the Middle paleolithic, about 200,000 सालो पहले.
The transition to behavioral modernity साथ the विकास of सांकेतिक culture, भाषा, और specialized lithic प्रौद्योगिकी happened around 50,000 सालो ago according to many anthropologists although कुछ suggest a क्रमिक change in बर्ताव over a longer time स्पैन.
लिसा cuddy, M.D., is a fictional character on the फॉक्स network medical drama हाउस.
She is portrayed by Lisa edelstein.
cuddy was the डीन of आयुर्विज्ञान and hospital administrator of the fictional princeton-plainsboro Teaching हॉस्पिटल in New Jersey.
वो भी becomes House 's प्रेम ब्याज through the years to प्रारंभ a relationship साथ him in ऋतु seven.
cuddy छोड़ो her job बाद the events of season सात 's finale `` Moving on ``.
Track and फ़ील्ड is a खेल comprising various प्रतिस्पर्धी एथलेटिक प्रतियोगिताओं based on running, jumping, और फेंकना.
the नाम of the खेल derives from the प्रतियोगिता venue : a stadium with an oval running track around a ग्रास फ़ील्ड.
The फेंकना and कूद कार्यक्रम generally take place in the सेंट्रल enclosed area.
Track और फ़ील्ड falls under the umbrella sport of एथलेटिक्स, जिससे भी includes सड़क running, क्रॉस देश कार्यशील, and रेस walking.
The two most prestigious international track और field competitions are आयोजित under the ध्वज of एथलेटिक्स : the athletics competition at the ओलम्पिक Games और the आइएएएफ संसार championships in Athletics.
the International Association of Athletics Federations is the international शासी देह लिये track and field.
Track और field कार्यक्रम are generally व्यक्तिगत खेल साथ athletes चुनौतीपूर्ण each other to decide a सिंगल victor.
The racing कार्यक्रम are जीती by the खिलाड़ी with the तीव्रतम time, while the कूद और throwing कार्यक्रम हैं जीती by the athlete जो रै achieved the महानतम अलहदा or height in the contest.
The कार्यशील कार्यक्रम are categorised as sprints, middle and long-distance कार्यक्रम, relays, and hurdling.
नियमित jumping कार्यक्रम include long jump, triple जम्प, high जम्प and pole वॉल्ट, जबकि the सबसे common फेंकना events are शॉट put, javelin, discus और hammer.
वहीँ हैं also `` संयुक्त कार्यक्रम '', ऐसे as heptathlon और decathlon, in जिससे एथलीट compete in a number of the ऊपर कार्यक्रम.
रिकॉर्ड are रखा of the बेहतरीन प्रदर्शन in विशिष्ट events, at world और national levels, सही down to a निजी स्तर.
however, if athletes हैं deemed to have violated the event 's rules or regulations, वे are disqualified from the competition and their marks are erased.
In उत्तर अमेरिका, the term track and field may be used to refer to athletics in general, rather than specifically track और फ़ील्ड events.
the Gulf War ( 2 अगस्त 1990 – 28 February 1991 ), codenamed Operation Desert Storm ( 17 जनवरी 1991 – 28 फ़रवरी 1991 ) was a युद्ध waged by a u.n.-authorized गठबन्धन force from 34 राष्ट्र led by the United States, against इराकी in जवाब to इराकी 's आक्रमण और annexation of कुवैत.
the युद्ध is भी known अंतर्गत other names, ऐसे as the पारसी Gulf युद्ध, पहला गल्फ War, गल्फ युद्ध i, or the पहला इराकी युद्ध, before the term `` Iraq War '' became identified बजाय साथ the 2003 Iraq युद्ध ( भी referred to in the u.S. as `` Operation इराकी स्वतंत्रता '' ).
कुवैत 's आक्रमण by इराकी सैनिकों कि began 2 August 1990 was met साथ international condemnation, and brought immediate economic प्रतिबंधों against Iraq by सदस्यों of the U.N. सुरक्षा Council.
U.S. अध्यक्ष George H. W. Bush तैनात u.S. forces into सऊदी Arabia, और urged other देशों to send their own forces to the scene.
an सरणी of राष्ट्र joined the गठबन्धन.
The ग्रेट बहुमत of the Coalition 's military शक्तियां यहूद इससे the U.S., with सऊदी Arabia, the संयुक्त किंगडम और Egypt as leading contributors, in that order.
Saudi अरब सशुल्क around US $ 36 अरब of the US $ 60 अरब लागत.
the war was marked by the शुरूआत of सजीव न्यूज on the सामने लाइनों of the लड़ो, with the primacy of the u.S. network सीएनएन.
The युद्ध has भी earned the उपनाम वीडियो खेल युद्ध after the daily ब्रॉडकास्ट images on board the u.S. bombers दौरान आपरेशन मरुस्थल Storm.
The आरंभिक विरोध to निकाल इराकी troops इससे Kuwait began with an aerial बमबारी on 17 जनवरी 1991.
इस was followed by a मैदान उत्पीड़न on 24 February.
This was a decisive विजय for the गठबन्धन शक्तियां, who liberated कुवैत और advanced into इराकी territory.
the गठबन्धन ceased उनके अग्रिम, and घोषित a cease-fire 100 घंटों बाद the मैदान अभियान started.
aerial और ground कॉम्बैट was confined to इराकी, कुवैत, और areas on Saudi Arabia 's border.
इराकी शुभारम्भ Scud missiles विरूद्ध गठबन्धन military targets in सऊदी अरब and विरूद्ध इसराईल.
The nickel, in अमरीकी उपयोग, is a five- cent सिक्का जारी by the United States मिंट.
Composed of 75 % तांबे and 25 % nickel, the piece रै been struck चूंकि 1866.
The चांदी हाफ dime, equal to पाँच सेंट, था महरूम issued since the 1790s.
the अमरीकी Civil War caused economic hardship, driving gold और silver from circulation ; in response, in प्लेस of low-value सिक्के, the सरकारी at first जारी पेपर करेंसी.
in 1865, Congress abolished the five-cent fractional currency नोट after स्पेंसर M. Clark, head of the Currency ब्यूरो ( today the Bureau of Engraving and Printing ), लगाई his own portrait on the denomination.
बाद successful introduction of two-cent और three-cent pieces, बगैर अनमोल मेटल, Congress भी authorized a five-cent टुकड़ा consisting of आधार मेटल ; the मिंट began striking इस version in 1866.
The आरंभिक डिज़ाइन of the Shield nickel थी struck until 1883, then replaced by the स्वतंत्रता Head nickel.
The Buffalo निकल was introduced in 1913 as भाग of a ड्राइव to increase the सौंदर्य of American coinage ; in 1938, the जेफरसन निकल followed.
in 2004 और 2005, special डिजाइन in सम्मान of the bicentennial of the Lewis और Clark expedition were issued.
in 2006, the Mint reverted to using Jefferson निकल designer Felix schlag 's original रिवर्स ( or `` tails '' पक्ष ), हालांकि a new obverse, by Jamie franki, थी substituted.
as of 2013, it costs more than ग्यारह cents to उपज a निकल ; the मिंट is exploring the सम्भावना of reducing लागत by using कम expensive metals.
a पोस्टर साथ flowers or क्लस्टर of flowers produced by twelve प्रजाति of flowering पौधे इससे अलग परिवारों
a पुष्प, sometimes known as a bloom or खिलना, is the reproductive structure मिला in flowering plants ( पौधे of the प्रभाग Magnoliophyta, भी पुकारा angiosperms ).
the biological फलन of a पुष्प is to प्रभाव जनन, usually by providing a mechanism for the union of शुक्राणु साथ अंडे.
पुष्प may facilitate outcrossing ( संलयन of शुक्राणु and अंडे from अलग individuals in a population ) or allow selfing ( संलयन of शुक्राणु और अंडा इससे the वही flower ).
कुछ पुष्प उपज diaspores without fertilization ( parthenocarpy ).
पुष्प contain sporangia and हैं the साईट where gametophytes develop.
Flowers give rise to फल और seeds.
Many पुष्प have evolved to be attractive to animals, so as to cause them to be सदिश लिये the ट्रांसफ़र of पराग.
in addition to facilitating the reproduction of flowering plants, flowers have long been admired और used by humans to beautify their environment, and भी as objects of romance, ritual, religion, medicine और as a source of खाना.
The mcdonnell डगलस ( now बोइंग ) F-15 Eagle is a twin-engine, all-weather tactical fighter designed by McDonnell डगलस to gain और maintain एयर superiority in aerial कॉम्बैट.
it is माना among the most successful आधुनिक fighters, with over 100 aerial कॉम्बैट victories with no losses in dogfights.
Following reviews of proposals, the संयुक्त States Air फ़ोर्स selected mcdonnell डगलस ' डिज़ाइन in 1967 to मिलें the service 's need for a समर्पित air superiority सेनानी.
the त्रिभुज first उड़ाया in July 1972, और entered service in 1976.
Since the 1970s, the त्रिभुज has been exported to Israel, Japan, Saudi Arabia, and अन्य राष्ट्र.
the F-15 थी originally envisioned as a pure air बड़प्पन aircraft.
इसके डिज़ाइन included a द्वितीयक ground-attack काबिलियत that was largely अप्रयुक्त.
The design proved लचीली enough that an all-weather strike derivative, the F-15E स्ट्राइक Eagle, थी बाद developed, और डाला service in 1989.
The F-15 त्रिभुज is अपेक्षित to be in service with the U.S. एयर Force past 2025.
mimio is a ब्रांड नाम of a लकीर of technology products aimed at the शिक्षा market.
the primary products are focused around computer whiteboard interactive शिक्षण devices.
mimiocapture डिवाइस also allow users to capture all of the ink स्ट्रोक्स कि हैं लिखा on the whiteboard.
जब प्रयुक्त in संयोजन साथ a video प्रोजेक्टर it turns the ordinary whiteboard सतह into a fully interactive whiteboard.
the product लकीर was originally designed by Virtual स्याही.
on अक्तूबर 4, 2006 Newell Rubbermaid acquired the Mimio इंटरैक्टिव whiteboard ( iwb ) product line.
rahab of जेरिको
Rahab, ( ; ; ) was, according to the किताब of जोशुआ, a स्त्री जो lived in जेरिको in the promised जमीन and assisted the Israelites in capturing the city.
Nearly all अंग्रेज़ी अनुवाद of Joshua describe her as a harlot or वेश्या.
The Organization of American राज्य ( Spanish : organización de लॉस estados americanos, Portuguese : organização dos Estados Americanos, फ्रेंच : Organisation des états américains ), or the oas, is a regional international संगठन.
the oas was संस्थापित on 30 April 1948, and has its मुख्यालय in Washington, d.C., United States.
इसके members हैं the 35 स्वतंत्र states of the Americas.
चूंकि 26 may 2005, the Secretary General of oas has been José Miguel insulza.
Christopher कोलंबस ( Italian : cristoforo कोलोन ; Spanish : Cristóbal colón ; Portuguese : Cristóvão Colombo ; पहले 31 अक्तूबर 145120 may 1506 ) थी an Italian एक्सप्लोरर, नाविक, and colonizer, born in the गणतंत्र of जेनोआ, in what is आज northwestern इटली.
Under the auspices of the Catholic monarchs of Spain, he completed चार voyages आरपार the अटलांटिक Ocean that led to general European जागरूकता of the American continents.
those voyages, और his efforts to establish स्थाई settlements on the island of Hispaniola, initiated the Spanish colonization of the नई संसार.
In the context of उभरते पश्चिमी imperialism और economic competition between यूरोपीय kingdoms seeking wealth through the स्थापना of trade रूट and colonies, कोलंबस 's सट्टे proposal, to पहुँचें the East इंडीज by sailing westward, eventually प्राप्त the support of the स्पेनी क्राउन, जिससे देखी in it a promise, however remote, of gaining the अपर hand over प्रतिद्वंद्वी शक्तियां in the contest for the lucrative spice व्यापार साथ Asia.
दौरान his first voyage in 1492, instead of reaching जापानी as he had intended, कोलंबस landed in the बहामा archipelago, at a locale he named सैन Salvador.
over the course of तीन अधिक voyages, Columbus visited the Greater and Lesser Antilles, as well as the caribbean coast of Venezuela and Central America, claiming them for the स्पेनी Empire.
हालांकि कोलंबस was नहीं the first यूरोपीय explorer to reach the americas ( having been preceded by the नॉर्स expedition led by Leif ericson in the 11th century ), Columbus 's voyages led to the पहला स्थायी यूरोपीय contact with the Americas, inaugurating a period of यूरोपीय खोजी, conquest, and colonization कि lasted लिये अनेक centuries.
They had, therefore, an विशाल प्रभाव in the historical विकास of the modern पश्चिमी world.
कोलंबस himself देखी his accomplishments primarily in the light of the spreading of the ईसाई धर्म.
Never admitting कि he था reached a महाद्वीप previously unknown to Europeans, rather than the East इंडीज he had set आउट लिये, कोलंबस called the निवासियों of the lands he visited indios ( Spanish for `` Indians `` ).
कोलंबस 's strained relationship with the Spanish क्राउन और its appointed colonial प्रशासकों in अमेरिका led to his गिरफ़्तार और dismissal as राज्यपाल of the settlements on the island of Hispaniola in 1500, and later to protracted litigation over the लाभ जिससे कोलंबस and उसके वारिस claimed were owed to them by the crown.
Bred in Germany, the boxer is a breed of stocky, medium-sized, short-haired कुत्तो.
The कोट is smooth और tight-fitting ; रंगों are fawn or brindled, with or without श्वेत markings, which may कवर the संपूर्ण body.
Boxers हैं brachycephalic ( वे have broad, short skulls ), and have a वर्गाकार muzzle, mandibular prognathism ( an underbite ), बहुत दमदार जबड़े, and a powerful bite आदर्श for फांसी on to large prey.
the Boxer was bred from the Old अंग्रेज़ी Bulldog and the now extinct Bullenbeisser, और is भाग of the Molosser समूह.
मुक्केबाज यहूद पहला exhibited in a श्वान दिखाएँ लिये St. Bernards in म्यूनिख in 1895, the पहला Boxer club होने founded the अगला साल.
Based on 2012 American Kennel क्लबों आंकडे, मुक्केबाज held steady as the seventh सबसे लोकप्रिय नस्ल of dog in the संयुक्त States लिये the तीसरा consecutive साल.
सीरियल ata ( SATA ) is a computer bus interface that connects मेजबान बस adapters to द्रव्यमान भंडार devices such as मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव and optical drives.
सीरियल ata replaces the पुरानी at Attachment मानक ( ata ; later referred to as समानांतर ATA or pata ), offering several लाभ over the older इंटरफ़ेस : reduced cable आकार and लागत ( seven conductors बजाय of 40 ), native hot swapping, तेज़ आंकड़ा transfer through उच्चतर signalling दरों, and more efficient ट्रांसफ़र through an ( वैकल्पिक ) i/o queuing प्रोटोकॉल.
SATA मेजबान adapters and devices communicate via a high-speed सीरियल cable over two pairs of conductors.
In कंट्रास्ट, parallel ata ( the redesignation for the legacy ata specifications ) used a 16-bit चौड़ी आंकड़ा बस साथ अनेक अतिरिक्त support और कंट्रोल signals, सब operating at much lower आवृत्ति.
to ensure पिछड़ा संगतता साथ विरासत ata तन्त्र और अनुप्रयोग, SATA उपयोग the वही मौलिक ATA और atapi command-set as legacy ATA devices.
SATA has replaced parallel ata in उपभोक्ता desktop और laptop कंप्यूटर, and रै largely replaced PATA in नई embedded अनुप्रयोग.
SATA 's market share in the desktop PC मार्केट was 99 % in 2008.
pata remains widely प्रयुक्त in industrial and embedded applications that use CompactFlash भंडार, even though the new CFast मानक is based on sata.
Serial ata उद्योग compatibility विशेषताएँ originate from The Serial ATA अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन ( उर्फ.
sata-io, serialata.org ).
the sata-io group collaboratively creates, reviews, ratifies, और publishes the interoperability specifications, the परीक्षण cases, and plug-fests.
as साथ अनेक other industry compatibility मानकों, the SATA सामग्री ownership is transferred to अन्य industry लाशें : primarily the INCITS t13 subcommittee ata, the incits T10 subcommittee ( SCSI ) ; a subgroup of t10 जिम्मेदार for Serial संलग्न scsi ( SAS ).
The complete specification इससे SATA-IO.
the शेष of इस आलेख होगा try to उपयोग the terminology and विशेषताएँ of SATA-IO.
the history of the अंतरजाल began with the विकास of electronic computers in the 1950s.
the पब्लिक was पहला introduced to the concepts कि होता lead to the Internet जब a message was भेजा over the arpanet इससे computer विज्ञान प्राध्यापक Leonard Kleinrock 's प्रयोगशाला at University of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, Los एंजिल्स ( ucla ), बाद the दूसरी piece of संजाल उपकरण थी संस्थापित at Stanford Research संस्थान ( श्री ).
Packet switched संजाल such as arpanet, Mark I at NPL in the UK, CYCLADES, Merit Network, Tymnet, और Telenet, यहूद developed in the late 1960s और early 1970s using a variety of protocols.
the ARPANET in particular led to the development of protocols for internetworking, in जिससे अनेक पृथक networks could be joined साथ into a संजाल of networks.
in 1982, the Internet प्रोटोकॉल सुइट ( tcp/ip ) was मानकीकृत, और नतीजतन, the concept of a world-wide network of interconnected tcp/ip संजाल, पुकारा the Internet, was introduced.
अभिगम to the ARPANET थी विस्तारित in 1981 when the National Science न्यास ( nsf ) developed the Computer विज्ञान संजाल ( CSNET ) and again in 1986 when NSFNET provided access to supercomputer साइट in the United राज्य from शोध और education organizations.
वाणिज्यिक Internet service providers ( ISPs ) began to emerge in the लेट 1980s and जल्दी 1990s.
the arpanet थी decommissioned in 1990.
the Internet थी commercialized in 1995 जब nsfnet was decommissioned, निकालना the पिछला restrictions on the use of the अंतरजाल to carry वाणिज्यिक ट्रैफ़िक.
चूंकि the mid-1990s, the Internet has था a revolutionary प्रभाव on संस्कृति और कॉमर्स, including the rise of near-instant communication by electronic mail, instant messaging, Voice over Internet प्रोटोकॉल ( VoIP ) `` phone काल्स '', two-way इंटरैक्टिव वीडियो काल्स, and the संसार चौड़ी Web साथ इसके चर्चा forums, blogs, social networking, and online shopping साइट.
the research और education community continues to develop and use advanced संजाल such as nsf 's very high speed Backbone संजाल सेवा ( vbns ), Internet2, और नेशनल lambdarail.
increasing amounts of आंकड़ा हैं transmitted at उच्चतर और उच्चतर speeds over fiber optic संजाल operating at 1-Gbit/s, 10-gbit/s, or more.
The Internet 's कब्ज़ा over the global communication लैंडस्केप was लगभग instant in ऐतिहासिक terms : it only communicated 1 % of the सूचना बहती through two-way दूरसंचार संजाल in the साल 1993, already 51 % by 2000, and अधिक than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007.
Today the Internet continues to grow, चलित by ever greater amounts of ऑनलाइन सूचना, commerce, entertainment, और सोशल नेटवर्किंग.
The Gift is the दूसरी album by स्कॉटिश singer सुसान बॉयल, which was released on 8 November 2010.
बॉयल hinted कि the एल्बम रै a 1960s feel `` because कि थी [ her ] era ''.
on 30 November 2011, the album प्राप्त a नामांकन in 54th Grammy पुरस्कार for बेहतरीन परंपरागत Pop गायन Album.
`` This is Just to Say '' ( 1934 ) is a प्रसिद्ध imagist कविता by William Carlos Williams.
प्राध्यापक ऐल्बस Percival wulfric ब्रायन Dumbledore is a major अक्षर and protagonist of J. K. रोलिंग 's Harry कुम्हार series.
For most of the series, he is the हेडमास्टर of the wizarding school हॉग्वार्ट्स.
as part of his backstory, it is revealed कि he is the founder और leader of the Order of the फीनिक्स, an organisation dedicated to fighting the प्रमुख विपक्षी of the श्रेणी, रब Voldemort.
Dumbledore is portrayed by Richard हैरिस in the film adaptions of Harry Potter और the पारस 's Stone and Harry कुम्हार and the कक्ष of रहस्य.
बाद हैरिस ' मौत, माइकल Gambon portrayed Dumbledore for सब of the बाकी films.
रोलिंग stated she chose the नाम Dumbledore, जिससे is an जल्दी आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी शब्द for `` bumblebee ``, because of Dumbledore 's प्रेम of म्यूज़िक : वो imagined him walking around `` humming to खुद a लॉट ''.
calcitonin ( भी known as thyrocalcitonin ) is a 32-amino एसिड linear polypeptide हार्मोन that is produced in humans primarily by the parafollicular कोशिकाएं ( also ज्ञात as C-cells ) of the थायराइड, और in many other पशु in the ultimobranchial body.
it acts to reduce blood calcium ( ca2+ ), opposing the effects of parathyroid हार्मोन ( PTH ).
calcitonin has been found in मछली, सरीसृपों, पक्षियों, and स्तनधारियों.
इसके importance in humans has नहीं been as well established as इसके महत्व in अन्य पशु, as its function is usually नहीं significant in the विनियमन of normal calcium homeostasis.
it belongs to calcitonin-like protein परिवार.
a mousepad with a padded कलाई rest.
A mousepad ( us ) or mouse mat ( UK ) is a सतह लिये रखकर and चलती a कंप्यूटर mouse.
a mousepad enhances the उपयोगिता of the mouse compared to using a mouse directly on a table by providing a surface to allow the tracking led or ball ( in पूर्व मॉडल ) to माप movement accurately और बगैर जिटर.
कुछ mousepads increase ergonomics by providing a padded wrist rest.
the stadium seen from above in 1980
दिसम्बर 29, 2002 implosion
the Riverfront Stadium साईट in जून, 2006.
This फ़ोटो थी taken from the पश्चिमी concourse of Great American बॉल Park.
a छोटी portion of the Riverfront Stadium site is now occupied by the Reds ' हॉल of कीर्ति and संग्रहालय and Main गली, which थी extended when the नई park थी निर्मित.
The सिनसिनाटी bengals ' Paul Brown स्टेडियम is in the अलहदा.
Riverfront Stadium ( 1970–1995 ), बाद ज्ञात as cinergy Field ( 1996–2002 ), थी the घर of the Cincinnati लाल नेशनल League baseball team और the Cincinnati bengals नेशनल Football League team.
Located on the ओहियो River in शहर सिनसिनाटी, the स्टेडियम थी best ज्ञात as the घर of `` The बिग रेड यंत्र ``, as the Reds were often पुकारा in the 1970s.
Construction began on फ़रवरी 1, 1968, और थी completed at a cost of कम than $ 50 million.
on जून 30, 1970, the लाल hosted the अटलांटा Braves in their grand opening, with Hank आरोन hitting the पहला ever घर चलाएं at riverfront.
Two सप्ताह बाद on July 14, 1970, Riverfront hosted the 1970 Major League Baseball all-star खेल.
इस game is best remembered लिये the often-replayed collision at घर थाली between लाल star Pete Rose और catcher Ray fosse of the Cleveland इंडियंस.
in सितंबर 1996, Riverfront स्टेडियम was renamed `` Cinergy फ़ील्ड '' in a प्रायोजन deal साथ वृहद सिनसिनाटी 's energy कम्पनी, Cinergy Corporation.
In 2001, to make room लिये ग्रेट अमरीकी Ball Park, the seating क्षमता at Cinergy Field थी reduced to 39,000.
There was a विशाल वॉल in बीच Field दृश्य after the renovations, to serve as the batter 's नजर.
The स्टेडियम was demolished by implosion on दिसम्बर 29, 2002.
nexen टायर is a tire निर्माता, headquartered in yangsan, दक्षिण gyeongsang Province, and सियोल, both in दक्षिण Korea.
इसके major domestic प्रतिस्पर्धी हैं Hankook टायर और kumho Tires.
the company 's name is reflected in the कम्पनी slogan, `` Next सदी टायर. ''
The मूक majority is an unspecified विशाल बहुमत of लोगों in a country or समूह who do नहीं एक्स्प्रेस उनके opinions सरेआम.
The पद थी popularized ( हालांकि नहीं पहला प्रयुक्त ) by u.S. अध्यक्ष रिचर्ड निक्सन in a नवम्बर 3, 1969, वाक in जिससे he said, `` And so tonight—to you, the ग्रेट मूक majority of my fellow americans—i पूछो for your support. ''
In this usage it referred to those Americans जो किया नहीं जुड़ें in the large demonstrations against the Vietnam युद्ध at the समय, who किया not join in the counterculture, and जो did not participate in public प्रवचन.
निक्सन साथ साथ अनेक अन्य देखी इस समूह of Middle Americans as being निष्प्रभ in the मीडिया by the more vocal minority.
the phrase was used in the 19th century as a प्रेयोक्ति referring to all the people who have died, and others have used it before और बाद Nixon to refer to समूह of voters in विभिन्न nations of the संसार.
sam, a rhesus मंकी, उड़ाया to an ऊँचाई of 88 km in 1959.
( नासा )
Before इंसानो went into स्पेस, several animals were शुभारम्भ into space, including numerous बंदरों, so that scientists could investigate the biological प्रभाव of space travel.
the United राज्य launched flights containing primate कार्गो primarily between 1948-1961 with one उड़ान in 1969 and एक in 1985.
फ़्रांस शुभारम्भ two monkey-carrying फ़्लाइट in 1967.
The सोवियत Union and Russia शुभारम्भ बंदरों between 1983 and 1996.
सबसे बंदरों were anesthetized पहले lift-off.
Overall thirty-two monkeys उड़ाया in the space program ; none flew अधिक than एकबार.
Numerous back-up monkeys also went through the programs but never उड़ाया.
बंदरों from अनेक species यहूद प्रयुक्त, including rhesus बंदरों, cynomolgus बंदरों, squirrel monkeys, and pig-tailed macaques.
कुछ chimpanzees ( which हैं apes rather than बंदरों ) यहूद also used.
रेड ( redundant सरणी of independent डिस्क, originally अनावश्यक array of inexpensive disks ) is a storage technology कि combines multiple डिस्क drive components into a लॉजिकल unit.
आंकड़ा is वितरित आरपार the drives in one of अनेक ways called `` RAID स्तर '', depending on the level of redundancy and performance required.
the term `` रेड '' was पहला पारिभाषित by दाउद Patterson, garth A. Gibson, and रैंडी Katz at the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, Berkeley in 1987.
विपणक representing industry RAID निर्माताओं later attempted to reinvent the term to describe a redundant array of स्वतंत्र डिस्क as a अर्थात् of disassociating a low-cost अपेक्षा इससे RAID technology.
RAID is now प्रयुक्त as an umbrella पद for कंप्यूटर आंकड़ा भंडार schemes कि can divide and replicate आंकड़ा among multiple शारीरिक ड्राइव : RAID is an उदाहरण of storage आभासीकरण and the array can be accessed by the operating प्रणाली as one single drive.
the different schemes or architectures are named by the word रेड followed by a क्रमांक ( e.g. रेड 0, रेड 1 ).
Each योजना provides a different balance between the कुंजी goals : reliability and उपलब्धता, performance और क्षमता.
रेड स्तर greater than रेड 0 provide सुरक्षा against unrecoverable ( sector ) read errors, as well as पूरे डिस्क विफलता.
A lymphocyte is a type of श्वेत blood cell in the vertebrate immune system.
अंतर्गत the सूक्ष्मदर्शी, lymphocytes can be विभाजित into विशाल lymphocytes और small lymphocytes.
Large granular lymphocytes शामिल प्राकृतिक कातिल कोशिकाएं ( nk कोशिकाएं ).
Small lymphocytes consist of T cells and B cells.
the Big Lebowski is a 1998 dark कॉमेडी फिल्मी written and directed by जोएल and Ethan कोएन.
Jeff पुलों सितारों as Jeff Lebowski, an बेरोजगार लॉस एंजिल्स slacker और avid bowler, nicknamed `` the Dude. ''
After a मामला of mistaken पहचान, the Dude is introduced to a millionaire भी नामित जेफरी lebowski.
जब the millionaire Lebowski 's trophy wife is later kidnapped, he commissions The यार to deliver the फिरौती to secure her release.
the plan goes awry जब The Dude 's friend वाल्टर sobchak ( जॉन गुडमैन ) schemes to keep the पूरा फिरौती.
स्टीव buscemi, फिलिप Seymour हॉफमन, David huddleston, julianne मूर, tara Reid, और John turturro also star in the film, which is narrated by a cowboy ज्ञात only as `` the अजनबी '', निभाई by sam elliott.
the film is loosely प्रेरित by the कार्य of Raymond Chandler.
जोएल कोएन stated : `` We wanted to do a Chandler दयालु of story – कैसा it moves episodically, and deals with the वर्ण trying to unravel a रहस्य, as well as having a hopelessly complex plot that 's ultimately unimportant. ''
The original स्कोर was रचित by Carter Burwell, a longtime collaborator of the कोएन Brothers.
The Big Lebowski was a निराशा at the u.S. box office और received मिश्रित समीक्षाएँ at the समय of its release.
समीक्षाएँ have trended towards the positive over time, and the फिल्मी has become a cult पसंदीदा, noted लिये its idiosyncratic characters, सपना sequences, unconventional dialogue, और eclectic साउंडट्रैक.
Severus snape is a fictional character in the हैरी Potter book series लिखा by J.K. Rowling.
in the पहला novel of the series, he is hostile toward Harry और is निर्मित up to be the primary विपक्षी until the final अध्याय.
As the श्रेणी progresses, Snape 's character becomes more layered और complex.
रोलिंग does नहीं fully खुलासा the details of उसके सच्चा loyalties until the समाप्त of the फाइनल book, Harry कुम्हार and the deathly hallows.
over the course of the श्रेणी, snape 's portrayal evolves इससे कि of a malicious and partisan teacher to that of a pivotal अक्षर of considerable जटिलता और moral ambiguity.
Snape primarily teaches potions at हॉग्वार्ट्स, though in the छठे अनोखा he teaches Defence Against the अंधेरा Arts, a स्थिति जिससे he थी ज्ञात to have desired throughout the श्रेणी.
He ultimately becomes Headmaster of हॉग्वार्ट्स in the फाइनल अनोखा.
रोलिंग रै वर्णित him as `` a तोहफा of a अक्षर ''.
grits refers to a ground-corn खाना of देशी अमरीकी उत्पत्ति, कि is common in the दक्षिणी संयुक्त States and mainly eaten at breakfast.
आधुनिक grits are commonly made of alkali-treated मकई ज्ञात as hominy.
Grits हैं समान to अन्य मोटा maize-based porridges from around the संसार ऐसे as polenta or the thinner farina.
`` Instant grits '' have महरूम processed to गति cooking.
the word `` grits '' derives from the बूढ़ा English word `` grytt, '' अर्थ coarse meal.
This शब्द originally referred to गेहूं and other porridges अभी known as groats in parts of the u.K..
मक्का, अनजान in यूरोपीय in the Middle आयु, is a food derived from corn ( a नई संसार plant ) and `` corn '' था been used to describe wheat products in many European regions.
`` grits '' may be either एकवचन or बहुवचन ; historically, in the अमरीकी South the शब्द was invariably singular notwithstanding इसके plural form ( cf. such खाना names as `` स्पघेटी '' or `` linguine '', likewise plural in रूप, लकिन एकवचन in उपयोग ).
sometimes, grits are called sofkee or sofkey ( इससे a देशी अमरीकी muskogee word ).
In आणविक जीवविज्ञान, human chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) is a हार्मोन उत्पादित by the fertilized अंडा बाद conception.
Later दौरान pregnancy it is बना by the विकासशील placenta, and later by the placental component syncytiotrophoblast.
Some cancerous tumors produce इस hormone ; इसलिए, elevated levels measured जब the patient is नहीं गर्भवती can lead to a कर्कट निदान.
However, it is नहीं known whether this production is a contributing कारण or an प्रभाव of tumorigenesis.
The pituitary analogue of hCG, known as luteinizing hormone ( lh ), is उत्पादित in the pituitary ग्रंथि of males और females of सब आयु.
, the एफडीए रै prohibited the बिक्री of `` homeopathic '' and over the काउंटर hCG diet उत्पाद और declared them fraudulent और illegal.
The लास वेगास Strip संसार of coca-cola संग्रहालय in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink बेची in stores, restaurants, and vending मशीने in प्रत्येक country मगर Cuba and उत्तर Korea.
it is उत्पादित by the Coca-Cola कम्पनी of Atlanta, Georgia, and is often referred to simply as Coke ( a registered trademark of the coca-cola कम्पनी in the United States since March 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a patent medicine जब it was invented in the late 19th century by John pemberton, coca-cola थी bought आउट by businessman Asa griggs Candler, whose विपणन tactics led Coke to its dominance of the संसार soft-drink market throughout the 20th सदी.
The कम्पनी produces concentrate, which is तब बेची to licensed coca-cola bottlers throughout the संसार.
The bottlers, जो hold territorially exclusive अनुबंध with the कम्पनी, उपज finished product in डिब्बे and बोतलों इससे the concentrate in संयोजन साथ filtered water और sweeteners.
The bottlers then sell, वितरित and merchandise coca-cola to खुदरा स्टोर्स और वेंडिंग machines.
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola उद्यमों, जिससे is the largest single coca-cola bottler in उत्तर अमेरिका and पश्चिमी Europe.
The Coca-Cola कम्पनी भी बिकता concentrate for सोडा स्रोतों to major restaurants और food सेवा वितरकों.
The coca-cola कम्पनी has, on occasion, introduced अन्य कोला पेय under the कोक ब्रांड नाम.
The सबसे common of ये is आहार Coke, साथ others सहित caffeine-free Coca-Cola, Diet Coke caffeine-free, coca-cola Cherry, coca-cola Zero, coca-cola वैनिला, और special संस्करण with lemon, lime or कॉफी.
Based on Interbrand 's बेहतरीन वैश्विक brand 2011, Coca-Cola was the world 's सबसे valuable brand.
An ombudsman is an आधिकारिक, usually नियुक्त by the government or by parliament लकिन साथ a significant उपाधि of स्वतंत्रता, जो is चार्ज साथ representing the interests of the public by investigating और addressing शिकायत of maladministration or violation of rights.
in कुछ countries an Inspector सामान्य, नागरिक एडवोकेट or other आधिकारिक may have कर्तव्य similar to those of a नेशनल ombudsman, और may भी be नियुक्त by the legislature.
नीचे the नेशनल level an ombudsman may be नियुक्त by a state, local or नगरपालिका सरकारी, और unofficial ombudsmen may be नियुक्त by, or even work लिये, a corporation ऐसे as a यूटिलिटी प्रदायक or a समाचारपत्र, लिये an ngo, or लिये a professional regulatory body.
Whether appointed by the विधानमंडल, the executive, or an संगठन ( or, less अक्सर, elected by the constituency कि he or वो serves ), the typical कर्तव्य of an ombudsman are to investigate शिकायत और attempt to निराकरण them, प्रायः through recommendations ( बाइंडिंग or not ) or मध्यस्थता.
Ombudsmen sometimes भी aim to पहचानो systemic मुद्दे अग्रणी to ग़रीब सेवा or breaches of people 's अधिकारों.
At the नेशनल स्तर, सबसे ombudsmen have a चौड़ी mandate to deal साथ the entire पब्लिक sector, और sometimes also elements of the निजी सेक्टर ( लिये example, contracted सेवा प्रदाताओं ).
In some cases, there is a more प्रतिबंधित mandate, for उदाहरण साथ particular sectors of society.
अधिक हाल developments have included the creation of specialised Children 's ombudsman and सूचना कमिश्नर एजेंसियों.
in कुछ jurisdictions an ombudsman charged साथ the handling of चिंताएं about नेशनल सरकारी is more formally referred to as the `` Parliamentary Commissioner '' ( e.g. the संयुक्त किंगडम Parliamentary कमिश्नर लिये Administration, और the पश्चिमी ऑस्ट्रेलियाई state ombudsman ).
In अनेक countries where the ombudsman 's remit extends beyond dealing साथ alleged maladministration to promoting और protecting इंसान rights, the ombudsman is recognised as the नेशनल इंसान rights institution.
The पोस्ट of ombudsman had by the end of the 20th सदी महरूम instituted by most सरकारें and by some intergovernmental organizations ऐसे as the यूरोपीय संघ.
बनाना a complaint to an ombudsman is प्रायः free of चार्ज.
चिह्न at Georgetown विश्वविद्यालयों वॉशिंगटन DC
Sign in बांजुल, the Gambia
पतझड़ in नई इंग्लैण्ड, watercolor, मौरिस prendergast.
ca. 1910–1913
पतन foliage in the कस्बा of स्टो, Vermont
New England is a region in the northeastern corner of the संयुक्त States consisting of the छह राज्य of Maine, नई Hampshire, Vermont, मैसाचुसेट्स, rhode द्वीप, और Connecticut.
New इंग्लैण्ड is bordered by नई यॉर्क राज्य to the दक्षिणपश्चिम, Quebec to the northwest, and New Brunswick और the अटलांटिक समंदर to the ईस्ट.
in एक of the earliest अंग्रेज़ी settlements in North America, Pilgrims इससे England पहला settled in नई इंग्लैण्ड in 1620, to form Plymouth Colony.
टेन सालो later, the puritans settled north of plymouth उपनिवेश in बोस्टन, यूँ forming मैसाचुसेट्स Bay उपनिवेश.
over the next 130 सालो, नई इंग्लैण्ड लड़ा in four फ्रेंच और भारतीय Wars, until the British defeated the फ्रेंच and their native allies in उत्तर अमेरिका.
in the late 18th century, the New इंग्लैण्ड colonies initiated the प्रतिरोध to the अंग्रेजों पार्लियामेंट 's efforts to impose new कर बगैर the सहमति of the colonists.
The बोस्टन चाय पार्टी थी a protest to जिससे ग्रेट Britain responded साथ a series of punitive कानून stripping मैसाचुसेट्स of self-government, which were termed the `` असहनीय Acts `` by the colonists.
The confrontation led to खोलें warfare in 1775, the expulsion of the अंग्रेजों authorities from नई इंग्लैण्ड in spring 1776, और the घोषणा of Independence in जुलाई 1776.
Some of the पहला आंदोलनों of American literature, philosophy, and शिक्षा originated in New इंग्लैण्ड.
the प्रदेश played a prominent भूमिका in the movement to abolish slavery, और थी the first region of the United States to be रूपांतरित by the Industrial क्रान्ति.
आज, New इंग्लैण्ड is a major world बीच of education, high technology, बीमे, और medicine.
Boston is इसके सांस्कृतिक, financial, शैक्षणिक, medical और परिवहन center.
प्रत्येक राज्य is प्रधानतया subdivided into small incorporated municipalities known as New England towns, which are often governed by town meeting.
The only unincorporated territory in New England exists in the sparse, northern regions of Vermont, New Hampshire, and Maine.
Since 1970, मतदाता have अधिक often supported उदार उम्मीदवार at the state and federal level than those of any अन्य प्रदेश in the United States.
नई इंग्लैण्ड is the तभी one of the संयुक्त States Census ब्यूरो 's नौ क्षेत्रीय divisions जिनकी नाम does not derive इससे इसके भूगोल, और it is the तभी multi-state region with clear, consistent सीमाएँ.
it maintains a strong भाव of cultural identity set apart इससे the बाकी of the country, although the शर्तें of इस पहचान हैं प्रायः contested, combining Puritanism with उदारतावाद, agrarian जीवन with उद्योग, और isolation with आव्रजन.
Emergency !
is an अमरीकी television श्रेणी कि combines the medical नाटक और action-adventure genres.
it was उत्पादित by Mark VII Limited and distributed by सार्वभौमिक Studios.
it debuted as a midseason बदलना on January 15, 1972, on एनबीसी, replacing the दो short-lived series the साझेदार and The Good जीवन, and ran until September 3, 1977, with छह अतिरिक्त two-hour television films दौरान the following दो सालो.
Emergency !
थी निर्मित और उत्पादित by Jack Webb and रॉबर्ट A. cinader, both of whom were भी responsible लिये the पुलिस dramas Adam-12 और Dragnet.
The पूर्वी समय मण्डल ( et ) encompasses 17 u.S. राज्य in the पूर्वी part of the संलग्न United States, भाग of कनाडा and three देशों in South अमेरिका.
स्थान that उपयोग Eastern Standard Time ( est ) जब observing मानक time ( autumn/winter ) हैं 5 घंटों पीछे Coordinated Universal Time ( ).
पूर्वी daylight समय ( EDT ), when observing daylight saving समय ( spring/summer ) is 4 hours पीछे Coordinated सार्वभौमिक Time ( ).
In the उत्तरी भाग of the time मण्डल, during the second संडे in कूच, at 2:00 a.m. EST, घड़ियाँ are advanced to 3:00 a.m. EDT leaving a एक hour `` गैप. ''
During the पहला संडे in November, at 2:00 a.m. edt, घड़ियाँ are moved वापस to 1:00 a.m. EST, thus `` duplicating '' एक घंटा.
Southern भाग of the zone ( पनामा and the Caribbean ) do नहीं observe daylight छायांकन.
Standard form of the periodic table.
the colors represent different श्रेणी of तत्व समझाया नीचे.
the आवधिक table is a tabular प्रदर्शक of the chemical तत्व, व्यवस्थित on the basis of their atomic numbers, इलेक्ट्रॉन configurations, and पुनरावर्ती chemical properties.
तत्व are presented in अनुक्रम of increasing atomic number ( number of protons ).
the standard रूप of table comprises an 18 × 7 grid or प्रमुख body of तत्व, positioned above a smaller दोगुना पंक्ति of तत्व.
The तालिका can also be deconstructed into चार rectangular blocks : the s-block to the left, the p-block to the सही, the d-block in the मध्य, and the f-block नीचे that.
The पंक्ति of the table हैं called अवधि ; the columns of the s-, d-, और p-blocks are पुकारा समूह, साथ कुछ of these having names ऐसे as the halogens or the प्रतिष्ठित gases.
चूंकि, by परिभाषा, a periodic तालिका incorporates पुनरावर्ती रुझान, any ऐसे table can be used to derive relationships between the properties of the elements और predict the गुण of नई, yet to be discovered or synthesized, elements.
As a result, a आवधिक table—whether in the मानक रूप or some अन्य variant—provides a उपयोगी फ्रेमवर्क for analyzing रासायनिक बर्ताव, और such tables are widely प्रयुक्त in रसायन and अन्य sciences.
हालांकि precursors मौजूद, Dmitri mendeleev is generally credited with the प्रकाशन, in 1869, of the first widely पहचाना आवधिक तालिका.
he developed उसके तालिका to illustrate periodic trends in the गुण of the then-known elements.
Mendeleev also predicted कुछ properties of then-unknown तत्व कि होता be अपेक्षित to भरण gaps in this table.
Most of his पूर्वानुमान were proved सही when the तत्व in सवाल यहूद subsequently खोजा.
mendeleev 's periodic table रै चूंकि महरूम विस्तारित and परिष्कृत साथ the डिस्कवरी or संश्लेषण of further new तत्व and the development of new theoretical मॉडल to explain chemical बर्ताव.
All तत्व from परमाणु numbers 1 ( हाइड्रोजन ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have been discovered or synthesized.
The elements from 1 to 98 ( californium ) have been found to मौजूद naturally, although कुछ are found only in ट्रेस amounts और were initially discovered by synthesis in laboratories.
The तत्व बाद 98 have तभी been synthesized in laboratories.
उत्पादन of elements परे ununoctium is being pursued, साथ the question of कैसा the periodic table may need to be परिवर्धित to accommodate any ऐसे additions होने a पदार्थ of जारी बहस.
Numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally occurring तत्व have भी been produced in laboratories.
Minecraft is a सैंडबॉक्स indie खेल originally created by स्वीडिश प्रोग्रामर markus `` Notch '' Persson and बाद विकसित and published by Mojang.
It थी सरेआम released लिये the pc on may 17, 2009, as a developmental alpha संस्करण और, after क्रमिक updates, थी published as a पूरा release version on November 18, 2011.
A version लिये एंड्रॉइड was released a माह पहले on अक्तूबर 7, and an iOS version थी released on November 17, 2011.
On May 9, 2012, the game was released on एक्सबॉक्स 360 as an Xbox Live Arcade game, co-developed by 4j studios.
All संस्करण of minecraft प्राप्त आवधिक अद्यतन.
The creative and भवन पहलुओं of Minecraft allow players to build constructions आउट of textured cubes in a 3d procedurally उत्पन्न संसार.
Other क्रियाएँ in the खेल शामिल खोजी, gathering resources, crafting and कॉम्बैट.
gameplay in इसके वाणिज्यिक release रै two प्रिंसिपल modes : survival, जिससे requires players to acquire संसाधन और maintain उनके स्वास्थ्य और भूख ; and रचनात्मक, where खिलाड़ी have an unlimited supply of resources, the क्षमता to मक्खी, and no स्वास्थ्य or भूख.
a तीसरा gameplay mode named हार्डकोर is the same as अस्तित्व, differing तभी in परेशानी ; it is set to hardest setting और respawning is निष्क्रिय, forcing खिलाड़ी to हटाएँ उनके worlds upon death.
Minecraft प्राप्त five awards इससे the 2011 खेल Developers Conference : it was awarded the Innovation Award, बेहतरीन Downloadable Game Award, और the Best Debut खेल पुरस्कार from the खेल डेवलपर Choice Awards ; and the दर्शक पुरस्कार, as well as the seumas mcnally Grand पुरस्कार, from the Independent Games पर्व in 2011.
in 2012, minecraft was awarded a सुनहरी जॉयस्टिक Award in the श्रेणी बेहतरीन downloadable खेल.
as of April 8, 2013, the खेल has sold over 10 million copies on pc और as of जनवरी 22, 2013, over 20 लाख नक़ल आरपार सब प्लेटफ़ॉर्म.
the अंधेरा Knight is a 2008 British-American superhero फिल्मी directed, produced, और co-written by क्रिस्टोफर Nolan.
Based on the DC कॉमिक्स character बैटमैन, the film is the second भाग of नोलन 's Batman फिल्मी श्रेणी और a sequel to 2005 's Batman begins.
Christian bale reprises the lead role of Bruce wayne/batman, with a returning cast of Michael caine as अल्फ्रेड Pennyworth, Gary oldman as James गॉर्डन and Morgan Freeman as लुसियस Fox.
The film introduces the character of Harvey डेंट ( Aaron eckhart ), Gotham 's newly elected ज़िला Attorney और the consort of Bruce वेन 's बाल्यकाल friend Rachel dawes ( Maggie जिलएनहॉल ), who joins बैटमैन and the पुलिस in combating the नई उठती threat of a criminal मास्टरमाइंड calling himself `` the Joker `` ( झाड़ Ledger ).
Nolan 's प्रेरणा for the film was the जोकर 's comic book debut in 1940, the 1988 ग्राफिक अनोखा, और the 1996 श्रेणी, जिससे retold two-face 's origin.
the nickname `` the अंधेरा Knight '' was first applied to बैटमैन in बैटमैन No. 1 ( 1940 ), in a स्टोरी लिखा by विधेयक उंगली.
The अंधेरा नाईट थी filmed primarily in Chicago, as well as in अनेक other स्थितियाँ in the संयुक्त States, the संयुक्त Kingdom, और Hong काँग.
नोलन used an IMAX कैमरा to फिल्मी some sequences, including the Joker 's पहला रूप in the film.
On जनवरी 22, 2008, some months after he था completed filming on The अंधेरा नाईट और छह महीने पहले the फिल्मी 's रिलीज, झाड़ Ledger died from a toxic संयोजन of prescription drugs, अग्रणी to तीव्र ध्यान from the दबायें और movie-going पब्लिक.
Warner भाईs. had initially निर्मित a वाइरल marketing अभियान लिये The अंधेरा नाईट, developing promotional websites और trailers highlighting screen shots of Ledger as the Joker, लकिन after लेजर 's मौत, the स्टुडियो refocused इसके promotional campaign.
the Dark नाईट was released on जुलाई 16, 2008 in Australia, on July 18, 2008 in उत्तर अमेरिका, और on जुलाई 24, 2008 in the United किंगडम.
Considered one of the best films of the 2000s और एक of the best superhero films कभी बना, the फिल्मी प्राप्त highly positive reviews and set numerous records during its नाट्य चलाएं.
With over $ 1 अरब in revenue worldwide, it is the 14th-highest-grossing फिल्मी of all time, unadjusted लिये inflation.
The film received आठ Academy Award nominations ; it जीती the award for Best ध्वनि संपादन और लेजर was posthumously awarded Best supporting कर्ता.
The अंधेरा Knight उदय, the final part of the trilogy, was released on जुलाई 20, 2012.
the समयरेखा of रेडियो सूचियाँ within the इतिहास of radio, the technology and कार्यक्रम कि produced instruments that उपयोग radio waves and activities that people undertook.
बाद, the इतिहास is dominated by programming and सामग्री, जिससे is करीब to सामान्य history.
The सिडनी ओपेरा हाउस is a multi-venue performing arts centre in New South Wales, Australia.
it was conceived और largely built by Danish architect Jørn utzon, opening in 1973 after a long gestation that began साथ उसके competition-winning design in 1957.
जोसेफ Cahill 's नई दक्षिण वेल्स Government दिया the go-ahead for कार्य to begin in 1958.
The सरकारी 's bold decision to चुनें utzon 's डिज़ाइन is often overshadowed by the कांड कि followed.
it is on Bennelong Point in Sydney Harbour, close to the सिडनी harbour Bridge.
It sits at the northeastern टिप of the सिडनी central कारोबार district ( the सीबीडी ), surrounded on three पहलू by the harbour ( सिडनी Cove और Farm कोव ) और inland by the royal botanic Gardens.
contrary to इसके नाम, it घरों multiple performance venues.
it is among the व्यस्ततम performing arts केंद्रों in the संसार, होस्टिंग over 1,500 performances each साल attended by some 1.2 लाख लोगों.
It provides a स्थान for many performing-arts companies, सहित the four key resident companies Opera Australia, the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई Ballet, the सिडनी Theatre Company and the Sydney सिंफनी ऑर्केस्ट्रा, और presents a चौड़ी दायरा of productions on इसके own account.
It is also एक of the most popular visitor attractions in Australia, with more than seven लाख लोगों visiting each year, 300,000 of whom take a हिदायत दौरे.
It is administered by the Sydney Opera हाउस Trust, under the नई दक्षिण Wales Ministry of the Arts.
On 28 जून 2007, it was made a युनेस्को World Heritage साईट.
it is एक of the 20th सदी 's सबसे distinctive इमारतें और one of the most प्रसिद्ध performing arts केंद्रों in the world.
A आलेख of देह द्रव्यमान index as a function of देह द्रव्यमान and देह ऊँचाई is दिखाया ऊपर.
The dashed lines represent subdivisions within a major क्लास.
For उदाहरण the `` underweight '' वर्गीकरण is further विभाजित into `` severe '', `` moderate '', and `` mild '' subclasses.
The देह द्रव्यमान अनुक्रमणिका ( बीएमआई ), or Quetelet अनुक्रमणिका, is a माप for human देह आकार आधारित on an व्यक्तिगत 's weight और height.
It was devised between 1830 and 1850 by the belgian बहुश्रुत Adolphe Quetelet दौरान the कोर्स of developing `` social physics ''.
देह द्रव्यमान अनुक्रमणिका is defined as the व्यक्तिगत 's देह द्रव्यमान divided by the वर्गाकार of उनके height.
The formulae universally used in आयुर्विज्ञान उपज a ईकाई of माप of kg/m2.
BMI can भी be determined using a बीएमआई chart, जिससे displays बीएमआई as a फलन of weight ( horizontal axis ) and height ( लंबवत अक्ष ) using contour लाइनों लिये अलग values of BMI or रंगों for अलग BMI श्रेणी.
† The फ़ैक्टर for UK/US units is अधिक precisely 703.06957964, but कि level of परिशुद्धता is not meaningful for इस गणना.
To work from stone और पाउंड first गुणा the स्टोन by 14 तब add the pounds to दे the whole द्रव्यमान in pounds ; to work इससे feet and inches first गुणा the feet by 12 then add the इंच to दे the पूरे height in इंच.
Thomas paine ( जनवरी 29, 1737 ( ns February 9, 1737 ) – जून 8, 1809 ) was an english-american political activist, author, political theorist and क्रांतिकारी.
as the लेखक of दो highly influential pamphlets at the start of the अमरीकी Revolution, he प्रेरित the देशप्रेमी in 1776 to घोषित independence from ब्रिटेन.
उसके विचार reflected आत्मज्ञान era बयानबाजी of transnational इंसान rights.
he रै been पुकारा `` a corsetmaker by व्यापार, a journalist by व्यवसायिक, और a propagandist by inclination. ''
born in Thetford, इंग्लैण्ड, in the county of नॉर्फ़ोक, Paine emigrated to the अंग्रेजों अमरीकी colonies in 1774 with the सहायता of Benjamin Franklin और he arrived in time to participate in the अमरीकी क्रान्ति.
His principal योगदान यहूद the शक्तिशाली, widely read pamphlet आम Sense ( 1776 ), the all-time best-selling American किताब कि advocated औपनिवेशिक अमेरिका 's स्वतंत्रता इससे the Kingdom of Great Britain, and The American संकट ( 1776–83 ), a pro-revolutionary pamphlet series.
आम भाव was so influential कि जॉन Adams कहा, `` बगैर the pen of the लेखक of आम Sense, the तलवार of वॉशिंगटन होता have been उठाया in vain.”
paine lived in फ़्रांस लिये सबसे of the 1790s, बनने deeply involved in the French Revolution.
he wrote the अधिकारों of man ( 1791 ), in भाग a रक्षा of the फ्रेंच Revolution against इसके critics.
His हमले on British लेखक एडमंड बुर्के led to a विचारण और conviction in absentia in 1792 for the crime of seditious मानहानि.
in 1792, despite not being able to बोलो French, he was निर्वाचित to the French National Convention.
The girondists regarded उसे as an ally.
Consequently, the montagnards, विशेषकर robespierre, regarded उसे as an enemy.
In December 1793, he was गिरफ्तार और imprisoned in पेरिस, then released in 1794.
He became बदनाम because of the Age of कारण ( 1793–94 ), उसके book that advocates deism, promotes कारण और freethinking, and argues विरूद्ध institutionalized धर्म in general and ईसाई doctrine in particular.
He भी wrote the pamphlet Agrarian इंसाफ ( 1795 ), discussing the origins of प्रॉपर्टी, and introduced the concept of a गारंटी minimum income.
In 1802, he लौटे to America where he died on June 8, 1809.
तभी छह लोगों attended his funeral as he had been ostracized for उसके ridicule of christianity.
Clinical ट्रायल हैं sets of tests in चिकित्सा शोध और drug विकास that generate सुरक्षा and efficacy आंकड़ा ( or more specifically, information परिचय adverse ड्रग reactions और adverse प्रभाव of अन्य treatments ) लिये health interventions ( e.g., drugs, नैदानिक, devices, चिकित्सा protocols ).
वे are conducted तभी बाद संतोषजनक information रै महरूम gathered on the विशेषता of the गैर clinical सुरक्षा, और स्वास्थ्य authority/ethics committee approval is granted in the देश where approval of the ड्रग or device is sought.
previously, many emerging देशों did नहीं आवश्यकता लोकल trials for उत्पाद approvals.
अभी, though उभरते देशों still accept data from U.S./Europe, they भी require some लोकल trials.
depending on the type of product and the stage of its development, investigators initially enroll स्वयंसेवक and/or मरीजों into छोटी पायलट अध्ययन, and subsequently conduct larger scale अध्ययन in मरीजों कि प्रायः compare the नई उत्पाद साथ others already स्वीकृत लिये the affliction of interest.
As positive safety और efficacy आंकड़ा हैं gathered, the number of मरीजों is typically increased.
नैदानिक ट्रायल can vary in size, और can involve a single research entity in one देश or अनेक such entities in multiple देशों.
a full श्रेणी of ट्रायल may incur sizable costs, and the burden of paying for all the जरुरी people और सेवाएं is प्रायः borne by the sponsor, जिससे may be a governmental संगठन or a फार्मास्युटिकल, biotechnology or चिकित्सा यंत्र company.
जब the diversity of जरूरी support भूमिकाएँ exceeds the संसाधन of the sponsor, a नैदानिक विचारण is managed by an outsourced partner, ऐसे as a अनुबंध research organization or a नैदानिक trials unit in the academic सेक्टर.
the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स are an अमरीकी football टोली आधारित in ग्रीन खाड़ी, विस्कॉन्सिन.
वे हैं सदस्यों of the उत्तर Division of the National Football Conference ( NFC ) in the नेशनल Football लीग ( एनएफएल ).
Green खाड़ी is the third-oldest मताधिकार in the NFL, having been organized and playing in 1919.
The पैकर्स हैं the तभी non-profit, community-owned major लीग पेशेवर खेल टोली in the United राज्य.
the Packers are the पिछला vestige of `` छोटी town teams '' कि यहूद एकबार आम in the एनएफएल दौरान the 1920s और 1930s.
संस्थापित in 1919 by Earl `` घुंघराले '' lambeau ( hence the नाम Lambeau फ़ील्ड on जिससे the टोली plays ) and George Whitney Calhoun, the Green Bay पैकर्स can ट्रेस उनके lineage to अन्य semi-professional टीमों in Green खाड़ी डेटिंग वापस to 1896.
In 1919 और 1920 the Packers competed as a semi-professional फ़ुटबॉल team against क्लब इससे around विस्कॉन्सिन and the Midwest.
वे joined the अमरीकी पेशेवर Football संघ ( apfa ) in 1921, the forerunner to what is ज्ञात today as the नेशनल Football लीग ( एनएफएल ).
हालांकि ग्रीन खाड़ी is the पिछला एनएफएल `` छोटी town '' टोली, इसके लोकल fan base और मीडिया extends into आसपास Milwaukee ; the team also played selected home खेल there between 1933 और 1994.
The Green खाड़ी Packers have जीती 13 league championships ( अधिक than any other team in the NFL ), including नौ एनएफएल championships prior to the Super Bowl era and four सुपर कटोरी victories —in 1967 ( सुपर Bowl I ), 1968 ( सुपर कटोरी II ), 1997 ( Super कटोरी xxxi ) और 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ).
the पैकर्स have long-standing, bitter rivalries with their NFC उत्तर ( formerly the NFC Central ) प्रतिद्वंद्वियों, the शिकागो Bears, Minnesota Vikings और the Detroit Lions.
the bears-packers फंसने is one of the oldest rivalries in NFL history, dating back to 1921.
Ethanol ईंधन is इथेनॉल ( ethyl alcohol ), the same प्रकार of alcohol found in alcoholic beverages.
it is most often प्रयुक्त as a motor fuel, mainly as a biofuel additive for gasoline.
संसार ethanol production लिये हस्तांतरण fuel tripled between 2000 and 2007 from 17 अरब to more than 52 अरब liters.
From 2007 to 2008, the share of इथेनॉल in global gasoline प्रकार ईंधन उपयोग increased इससे 3.7 % to 5.4 %.
in 2011 विश्वव्यापी ethanol fuel उत्पादन reached 22.36 अरब u.S. liquid gallons ( bg ) ( 84.6 billion liters ), with the संयुक्त States as the top निर्माता साथ 13.9 bg ( 52.6 अरब liters ), accounting for 62.2 % of वैश्विक उत्पादन, followed by Brazil with 5.6 bg ( 21.1 अरब liters ).
इथेनॉल fuel रै a `` गैसोलीन गैलन equivalency `` ( gge ) मान of, जिससे अर्थात् 1.5 गैलन of ethanol produce the energy of एक gallon of गैसोलीन.
Ethanol fuel is widely प्रयुक्त in ब्राज़ील and in the संयुक्त States, और साथ दोनो देशों were जिम्मेदार for 87.1 % of the world 's ethanol fuel उत्पादन in 2011.
Most गाड़ियाँ on the सड़क आज in the U.S. can run on मिश्रणों of up to 10 % इथेनॉल, और ethanol represented 10 % of the U.S. gasoline fuel सप्लाई निकला इससे domestic sources in 2011.
Since 1976 the ब्राज़ीलियाई government has made it mandatory to मिश्रण ethanol with गैसोलीन, और चूंकि 2007 the विधिक मिश्रण is around 25 % इथेनॉल और 75 % gasoline ( e25 ).
by दिसम्बर 2011 Brazil had a बेड़े of 14.8 लाख flex-fuel automobiles और light trucks और 1.5 लाख flex-fuel मोटरसाइकिल कि regularly उपयोग neat ethanol fuel ( known as e100 ).
bioethanol is a रूप of बेदर्दी energy that can be उत्पादित from agricultural feedstocks.
It can be made इससे very common crops ऐसे as sugar cane, आलू, manioc and corn.
There रै been considerable बहस परिचय कैसा useful bioethanol होगा be in replacing गैसोलीन.
Concerns about its उत्पादन और use relate to increased food कीमतें due to the विशाल राशि of arable land जरूरी लिये फसलों, as खूब as the उर्जा and प्रदूषण संतुलन of the whole साईकिल of इथेनॉल production, especially from मकई.
हाल developments with cellulosic इथेनॉल उत्पादन and commercialization may allay some of these concerns.
cellulosic ethanol offers वादा क्युकी cellulose मछली, a प्रमुख और सार्वभौमिक घटक in संयंत्र कोशिकाएं walls, can be used to उपज इथेनॉल.
according to the International Energy एजेंसी, cellulosic ethanol could allow इथेनॉल fuels to play a much bigger role in the भविष्य than previously विचार.
साब 9-3 SportCombi BioPower.
The दूसरी e85 flexifuel मॉडल introduced by साब in the Swedish मार्केट.
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination और कदम of gavrilo princip ( image taken in 1987, पहले steps were removed in 1992 and plaque बदला from Cyrillic to लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट )
A प्लैक commemorating the location of the Sarajevo हत्या ( चित्र लिया in 2009 )
on 28 जून 1914, Archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया, heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian सिंहासन, और his बीवी, सोफी, duchess of Hohenberg, यहूद शॉट dead in साराजेवो, by Gavrilo princip, one of a समूह of छह Bosnian serb assassins coordinated by Danilo Ilić.
The political objective of the assassination was to break बंद Austria-Hungary 's south-slav provinces so वे could be combined into a Greater Serbia or a यूगोस्लाविया.
The assassins ' motives यहूद consistent साथ the movement कि later became ज्ञात as Young बोस्निया.
सर्बियाई सैन्य officers stood पीछे the आक्रमण.
At the top of these सर्बियाई सैन्य षड्यंत्रकारियों थी मुख्य of Serbian Military Intelligence dragutin dimitrijević, his righthand man Major Vojislav tankosić, और masterspy Rade Malobabić.
Major Tankosić armed the assassins साथ bombs और pistols and trained them.
The हत्यारे were given अभिगम to the same clandestine tunnel of safe-houses और एजेंटों that Rade malobabić प्रयुक्त लिये the घुसपैठ of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary.
The हत्यारे, the key members of the clandestine टनल, और the key सर्बियाई सैन्य conspirators जो यहूद स्टिल जिंदा यहूद गिरफ्तार, आजमाया, convicted और punished.
those who यहूद गिरफ्तार in बोस्निया were tried in साराजेवो in October 1914.
The other षड्यंत्रकारियों यहूद गिरफ्तार and tried before a सर्बियाई kangaroo court on the French-controlled salonika सामने in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges ; सर्बिया चलाया तीन of the top military षड्यंत्रकारियों.
Much of कया is ज्ञात परिचय the assassinations आता from these two ट्रायल and सम्बन्धित records.
कार्यभार of जिम्मेदारी लिये the bombing and हत्याएं of 28 जून is highly विवादास्पद क्युकी the आक्रमण led to the outbreak of संसार युद्ध i एक माह बाद.
renée Kathleen Zellweger ( born April 25, 1969 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री and producer.
Zellweger first gained फैली ध्यान लिये her भूमिका in the film Jerry मैग्वायर ( 1996 ), and subsequently received two nominations लिये the Academy Award लिये Best Actress for her भूमिकाएँ as Bridget जोन्स in the comedy Bridget Jones 's डायरी ( 2001 ), और as roxie Hart in the musical Chicago ( 2002 ).
She won the अकादमी Award for बेहतरीन Supporting अभिनेत्री लिये her प्रदर्शन in the drama ठंडा पहाड़ ( 2003 ).
वो has won an Academy पुरस्कार, three सुनहरी Globe Awards, three स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड पुरस्कार, and a bafta Award ; was नामित Hasty Pudding 's स्त्री of the साल in 2009 ; और established herself as एक of the highest-paid हॉलीवुड actresses as of 2007.
the ossicles ( भी पुकारा auditory ossicles ) are the तीन smallest हड्डियों in the इंसान body, the malleus, the incus और the stapes.
वे are contained भीतर the मध्य कान space and serve to transmit sounds इससे the एयर to the fluid-filled labyrinth ( cochlea ).
The अनुपस्थिति of the auditory ossicles would constitute a moderate-to-severe hearing घाटा.
The पद `` ossicles '' literally means `` छोटा bones '' और commonly refers to the auditory ossicles, though the पद may refer to कोई छोटी अस्थि throughout the body.
The New वचन ( यहूदी • • — Greek • • diatheke kaine ) is a biblical निर्वचन originally निकला इससे a phrase in the किताब of यिर्मयाह, in the Hebrew शास्त्रों.
It is often thought of as an eschatological मुक्तिदाता Age or world to आइये and is related to the biblical concept of the किंगडम of God.
generally, ईसाइयों मानना कि the नई Covenant was instituted at the Last Supper as भाग of the eucharist, which in the इन्जील of जॉन includes the नई commandment.
वहीँ are several Christian eschatologies कि further define the नई Covenant, as an उदाहरण an inaugurated eschatology defines and describes the New वचन as an जारी relationship between ईसाई believers और God कि will be in पूरा फलीभूत after the Second coming of मसीह ; that is, it होगा नहीं तभी be in पूरा fruition in believing दिल, लकिन in the भविष्य बाह्य world as well.
the कनेक्शन between the रक्त of Christ और the नई वचन is देखी in most modern अंग्रेज़ी अनुवाद of the New Testament with the saying : `` this cup कि is poured out for you is the new वचन in my रक्त ''.
Christians मानना कि Jesus is the mediator of the नई Covenant, and कि the Blood of Christ shed at his crucifixion is the जरूरी blood of the covenant.
as with सब covenants between God and man वर्णित in the बाइबल, the New वचन is माना `` a bond in रक्त sovereignly administered by God. ''
It रै been theorized कि the नई वचन is the विधि of Christ as spoken दौरान his उपदेश on the माउंट.
The following सूची of लोगों pardoned or granted clemency by the अध्यक्ष of the United States दस्तावेज़ the most prominent मामले of प्रत्येक प्रेसिडेंसी.
As granted by the Constitution ( आलेख II, Section 2, clause 1 ), Presidents have the power to ग्रान्ट clemency in one or more of the following तरीके : the ability to ग्रान्ट a पूरा pardon, to भ्रमण a sentence, or to तोड़ना a fine.
U.S. राष्ट्रपतियों have no शक्ति to ग्रान्ट दया लिये अपराधों prosecuted under राज्य law.
As to the difference between a pardon और a commutation:
a pardon is an कार्यपालिका अनुक्रम vacating a conviction.
A commutation is the शमन of the वाक्य of किसी currently serving a वाक्य लिये a अपराधों pursuant to a conviction, without vacating the conviction itself.
Approximately 20,000 pardons and clemencies were issued by U.S. राष्ट्रपतियों in the 20th सदी अलोन.
The records of acts of clemency were public until 1934.
in 1981 the दफ्तर of the Pardon attorney was created और रिकॉर्ड from अध्यक्ष H. W. Bush आगे are अभी listed.
इस सूची शामिल pardons और commutations.
tampa ( ) is a नगर in the U.S. state of Florida.
it serves as the काउंटी सीट for Hillsborough काउंटी और is located on the वेस्ट coast of Florida, on tampa खाड़ी near the Gulf of मैक्सिको.
the जनसांख्यिकी of Tampa in 2011 was 346,037.
the वर्तमान स्थान of Tampa थी once inhabited by indigenous peoples of the Safety हार्बर culture, सबसे notably the tocobaga and the Pohoy, जो जिया साथ the shores of tampa Bay.
It was briefly explored by स्पेनी explorers in the जल्दी 16th century, but वहीँ were no permanent अमरीकी or European settlements within today 's city limits until बाद the United States था acquired फ्लोरिडा from स्पेन in 1819.
In 1824, the संयुक्त राज्य Army स्थापित a frontier outpost पुकारा फोर्ट ब्रुक at the मुँह of the hillsborough नदी, near the site of आज 's Tampa Convention बीच.
The first civilian निवासियों were pioneers जो settled near the fort for सुरक्षा from the nearby seminole जनसांख्यिकी.
the कस्बा grew धीरे until the 1880s, when रेलरोड links, the discovery of फास्फेट, and the आगमन of the cigar उद्योग jump-started tampa 's development and helped it to grow into an महत्वपूर्ण नगर by the जल्दी 1900s.
Today, tampa is a भाग of the metropolitan क्षेत्रफल most commonly referred to as the tampa खाड़ी Area.
For U.S. जनसांख्यिकी purposes, Tampa is part of the Tampa-St. Petersburg-Clearwater, फ्लोरिडा महानगर Statistical क्षेत्रफल.
the four-county क्षेत्रफल is composed of roughly 2.7 million निवासियों, making it the second largest महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल ( MSA ) in the state, और the fourth largest in the southeastern United राज्य, पीछे Miami, Washington, D.C., और Atlanta.
The वृहद tampa खाड़ी area has बस over 4 million residents and generally includes the Tampa and sarasota मैट्रो areas.
The Tampa Bay साझेदारी and U.S. जनसांख्यिकी आंकड़ा दिखाया an औसत सालाना growth of 2.47 प्रतिशत, or a gain of approximately 97,000 निवासियों प्रति साल.
between 2000 और 2006, the वृहद Tampa Bay Market अनुभवी a संयुक्त growth रेट of 14.8 प्रतिशत, growing इससे 3.4 million to 3.9 million और hitting the 4 million लोगों mark on अप्रैल 1, 2007.
a 2012 अनुमान shows the tampa Bay क्षेत्रफल जनसांख्यिकी to have 4,310,524 लोगों and a 2017 प्रक्षेप of 4,536,854 लोगों.
tampa रै a क्रमांक of खेल टीमों, ऐसे as the tampa खाड़ी buccaneers of the National फ़ुटबॉल League, the tampa Bay बिजली of the नेशनल Hockey लीग, और the Tampa खाड़ी तूफ़ान of the Arena फ़ुटबॉल लीग.
The Tampa खाड़ी Rays in प्रमुख League Baseball और the Tampa Bay rowdies of the उत्तर American Soccer League खेल उनके घर खेल in neighboring st. पीटर्सबर्ग, Florida.
in 2008, Tampa was क्रमित as the 5th best बाहरी नगर by फोर्ब्स.
A 2004 सर्वेक्षण by the nyu newspaper Washington वर्गाकार News ranked tampa as a शीर्ष नगर लिये `` twenty-somethings. ''
tampa is now ranked as a `` गामा '' संसार city by loughborough विश्वविद्यालयों.
according to loughborough, tampa ranks alongside other world शहरों ऐसे as फीनिक्स, Santo डोमिंगो, और ओसाका.
In हाल years tampa has seen a notable upsurge in high-market demand from consumers, signaling अधिक wealth concentrated in the area.
Tampa hosted the 2012 रिपब्लिकन National Convention.
The Chevrolet Cavalier was a कॉम्पैक्ट ऑटोमोबाइल उत्पादित इससे 1982 to 2005 by सामान्य मोटर्स.
निर्मित on the कम्पनी 's j platform, the cavalier produced the उच्चतम sales in 1984.
AT & t Mobility LLC branded और referred to as AT & T ( formerly cingular बेतार llc ), is a wholly owned subsidiary of AT & T Inc. कि provides बेतार सेवाएं to 107 लाख subscribers in the संयुक्त States, सहित Puerto Rico और the U.S. Virgin आइलैंड्स.
at & t गतिशीलता is the second largest wireless दूरसंचार provider in the United राज्य और Puerto Rico, behind Verizon बेतार, जिससे serves 115.78 लाख ग्राहक as of the चौथी क्वार्टर of 2012.
at & T गतिशीलता is headquartered in the Lenox पार्क area of DeKalb co. Georgia, just बाहर Atlanta.
Originally Cingular Wireless LLC इससे 2000 to 2007, a संयुक्त venture between SBC Communications and BellSouth, the company acquired the old at & T बेतार in 2004 ; sbc later acquired the original at & t और re-branded as `` at & t ''.
Cingular became wholly स्वामित्व by AT & T in December 2006 as a परिणाम of at & t 's acquisition of BellSouth.
in January 2007, cingular पुष्टि it होता re-brand itself under the AT & t नाम.
हालांकि the विधिक corporate name change occurred तत्काल, लिये दोनो regulatory और brand-awareness reasons both ब्रांड्स यहूद used in the company 's signage और विज्ञापन दौरान a परिवर्तन काल.
The transition concluded in लेट June, बस prior to the rollout of the Apple iphone.
On March 20, 2011, AT & T Mobility announced its इरादे to acquire t-mobile USA इससे डॉयचे telekom लिये $ 39 billion.
If it था प्राप्त government and regulatory approval, at & T होता have था more than 130 लाख subscribers.
however, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Federal संचार आयोग, and AT & T Mobility 's प्रतिस्पर्धी ( ऐसे as Sprint Nextel ) opposed the मूव on the grounds that it होता reduce प्रतियोगिता in the सेल्यूलर संचार मार्केट.
In December 2011, in the face of both governmental और फैली उपभोक्ता विपक्ष, AT & T withdrew their offer to पूरा the विलय.
मार्टिन Luther King, jr. ( January 15, 1929 – April 4, 1968 ) थी an American clergyman, activist, and नेता in the african-american सिविल अधिकारों Movement.
He is best known for his भूमिका in the advancement of civil rights using nonviolent civil disobedience.
किंग रै become a national icon in the history of अमरीकी प्रगतिवाद.
A Baptist मंत्री, किंग became a सिविल rights activist जल्दी in उसके career.
he led the 1955 मोंटगोमरी बस बहिष्कार and helped मिला the Southern Christian Leadership Conference ( sclc ) in 1957, सेवारत as its first president.
साथ the sclc, King led an unsuccessful संघर्ष विरूद्ध segregation in albany, Georgia, in 1962, and organized nonviolent विरोध in बर्मिंघम, Alabama, that attracted नेशनल attention following television news coverage of the क्रूर पुलिस जवाब.
King भी helped to organize the 1963 कूच on वॉशिंगटन, जहाँ he वितरित his `` I Have a Dream `` वाक.
There, he established his reputation as one of the greatest orators in अमरीकी history.
He also established उसके प्रतिष्ठा as a कट्टरपंथी, और became an object of the संघीय Bureau of छानबीन 's cointelpro लिये the rest of his जीवन.
एफबीआई agents investigated उसे for संभावित कम्युनिस्ट ties, अंकित his extramarital liaisons और reported on them to सरकारी officials, और on एक अवसर, mailed किंग a threatening anonymous अक्षर that he interpreted as an attempt to मेक him कमिट suicide.
on October 14, 1964, किंग received the नोबेल सलाम पुरस्कार for combating जातिगत inequality through nonviolence.
In 1965, he और the SCLC helped to व्यवस्थित the selma to मोंटगोमरी marches और the following साल, he took the movement उत्तर to Chicago.
In the final years of his life, King expanded उसके फ़ोकस to include poverty and the Vietnam War, alienating अनेक of his उदार allies साथ a 1967 speech titled `` परे वियतनाम ''.
किंग was planning a नेशनल occupation of वॉशिंगटन, D.C., पुकारा the Poor People 's अभियान.
किंग थी assassinated on April 4, 1968, in Memphis, टेनेसी.
His death was followed by riots in अनेक U.S. शहरों.
Allegations कि James Earl रे, the man convicted of killing King, था been framed or acted in concert with सरकारी एजेंटों persisted लिये दशकों बाद the शूटिंग, and the jury of a 1999 सिविल trial मिला loyd Jowers to be complicit in a षड्यंत्र against King.
King was awarded the Presidential पदक of स्वतंत्रता और the Congressional सुनहरा पदक मरणोपरांत.
Martin Luther King, jr. दिन was established as a U.S. संघीय holiday in 1986.
Hundreds of streets in the U.S. have महरूम renamed in his honor.
a memorial statue on the National मॉल थी opened to the public in 2011.
The tiger ( Panthera tigris ) is the largest बिल्ली प्रजाति, reaching a कुल body length of up to and weighing up to.
It is the तीसरा largest जमीन carnivore ( पीछे तभी the ध्रुवीय bear and the brown bear ).
इसके सबसे recognizable feature is a पैटर्न of अंधेरा लंबवत धारियाँ on reddish-orange fur with a lighter underside.
it रै exceptional stout teeth, and the canines हैं the longest among जीना felids with a क्राउन ऊँचाई of as much as or even.
In zoos, टाइगर्स have जिया for 20 to 26 सालो, which भी seems to be उनके longevity in the wild.
वे are territorial और generally solitary लकिन सोशल पशु, often requiring विशाल संलग्न क्षेत्रों of आवास that support their शिकार आवश्यकताएँ.
This, coupled साथ the fact that they हैं indigenous to कुछ of the अधिक densely आबादी स्थान on Earth, रै caused significant conflicts साथ humans.
टाइगर्स एकबार ranged widely आरपार Asia, इससे Turkey in the वेस्ट to the eastern coast of रूस.
Over the पास्ट 100 years, they have खोया 93 % of their historic दायरा, and have been extirpated from southwest and सेंट्रल एशिया, from the islands of जावा and Bali, और from large क्षेत्रों of southeast और Eastern एशिया.
आज, they दायरा इससे the Siberian taiga to open grasslands और तीव्र mangrove swamps.
The बाकी छह बाघ subspecies have been वर्गीकृत as endangered by आईयूसीएन.
the वैश्विक population in the जंगली is estimated to क्रमांक between 3,062 and 3,948 individuals, bas from around 100,000 at the start of the 20th century, साथ सबसे बाकी populations occurring in small pockets पृथक from प्रत्येक other.
Major reasons for जनसांख्यिकी मनाही include habitat विनाश, आवास fragmentation और poaching.
The extent of क्षेत्रफल occupied by tigers is अनुमानित at कम than, a 41 % मनाही इससे the area estimated in the mid-1990s.
टाइगर्स are among the सबसे recognisable और लोकप्रिय of the world 's charismatic megafauna.
वे have featured prominently in प्राचीन mythology and folklore, और continue to be चित्रित in आधुनिक films और साहित्य.
टाइगर्स appear on अनेक flags, coats of arms, और as mascots लिये sporting टीमों.
the Bengal tiger is the नेशनल animal of दोनो India and Bangladesh.
the सरलीकृत आतंरिक structure of a हरितलवक
Overview of the Calvin साईकिल और कार्बन fixation
the light-independent reactions of photosynthesis हैं chemical reactions that convert carbon डाइऑक्साइड and other यौगिकों into glucose.
These reactions occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled area of a chloroplast बाहर of the thylakoid membranes.
ये reactions take the light-dependent प्रतिक्रियाएँ और perform further chemical प्रक्रियाओं on them.
वहीँ हैं three phases to the light-independent reactions, collectively called the calvin साईकिल : carbon fixation, reduction प्रतिक्रियाएँ, and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration.
Despite इसके नाम, this process occurs तभी जब light is उपलब्धियाँ.
पौधे do not carry out the Calvin cycle by night.
They, बजाय, release sucrose into the phloem इससे उनके starch reserves.
इस प्रक्रम happens when light is available स्वतंत्र of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 कार्बन fixation, c4 कार्बन fixation, और crassulacean एसिड चयापचय ) ; कैम plants स्टोर malic acid in their vacuoles every रात्रि and रिलीज it by day in अनुक्रम to मेक इस प्रक्रम work.
A लिनेन handkerchief साथ खींचा लड़ी कढ़ाई around the edges
Linen cloth बरामद इससे Qumran गुफा 1 near the Dead समुद्र.
लिनेन ( ) is a textile बना इससे the fibers of the flax संयंत्र, Linum usitatissimum.
लिनेन is labor-intensive to manufacture, but when it is made into garments, it is valued for its exceptional coolness और freshness in hot weather.
The word `` linen '' is of West germanic उत्पत्ति and cognates with the Latin name लिये the flax plant linum, और the earlier Greek λινόν ( linon ).
इस word history रै दिए rise to a number of अन्य terms in English, the सबसे notable of जिससे is the English शब्द line, निकला from the उपयोग of a linen ( flax ) thread to determine a straight line.
वस्त्र in a linen weave texture, भी जब made of कपास, गांजा और other non-flax fibers हैं भी loosely referred to as `` linen ''.
ऐसे fabrics generally have उनके own विशिष्ट names अन्य than लिनेन ; for उदाहरण, fine cotton धागे in a linen-style weave is पुकारा Madapolam.
the सामूहिक पद `` linens `` is still often used generically to describe a class of woven and even knitted bed, नहाना, तालिका and kitchen textiles.
The नाम linens is retained क्युकी traditionally, linen थी used for अनेक of ये items.
in the past, the word `` linens '' थी also प्रयुक्त to mean lightweight undergarments ऐसे as shirts, chemises, waistshirts, lingerie ( a word भी cognate साथ लिनेन ), and detachable shirt छल्लों and cuffs, जिससे यहूद historically बना almost exclusively आउट of लिनेन.
The inside cloth layer of ठीक composite clothing garments ( as for उदाहरण jackets ) was traditionally बना of linen, and this is the origin of the शब्द lining.
लिनेन वस्त्र appear to be कुछ of the oldest in the world : उनके इतिहास goes वापस अनेक हज़ारों of years.
fragments of स्ट्रॉ, seeds, मछली, yarns, and various प्रकार of fabrics which तिथि वापस to about 8000 bc have been found in Swiss lake dwellings.
dyed flax fibers मिला in a प्रागैतिहासिक गुफा in Georgia सुझाएँ the उपयोग of woven linen fabrics इससे जंगली flax may date वापस भी पहले to 36,000 BP.
Linen थी sometimes प्रयुक्त as करेंसी in ancient Egypt.
Egyptian mummies यहूद wrapped in लिनेन because it was seen as a symbol of light और purity, और as a प्रदर्शक of माल.
Some of these fabrics, woven इससे हाथ spun yarns, were very ठीक for their day, but हैं coarse compared to आधुनिक लिनेन.
आज, linen is usually an महंगी वस्त्र, and is उत्पादित in relatively छोटी quantities.
it has a long `` स्टेपल '' ( व्यक्तिगत fiber लंबाई ) सापेक्ष to कपास and अन्य natural मछली.
अनेक उत्पाद are बना of linen : aprons, bags, तौलिये ( swimmers, bath, beach, देह और wash तौलिये ), napkins, bed linens, लिनेन चौके, धावक, chair कवर, and men 's & women 's wear.
the फीफा संसार कप, प्रायः simply the World कप, is an international संघ फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिता लडे by the senior men 's नेशनल teams of the सदस्यों of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ), the sport 's global governing body.
the championship has महरूम awarded प्रत्येक चार years since the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1930, मगर in 1942 और 1946 जब it थी नहीं आयोजित because of the दूसरी संसार युद्ध.
The वर्तमान champions हैं Spain, who जीती the 2010 टूर्नामेंट.
The current स्वरूप of the tournament involves 32 टीमों competing लिये the title at venues भीतर the host स्वदेश ( s ) over a काल of परिचय a माह ; this phase is प्रायः पुकारा the संसार Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which currently takes place over the preceding तीन सालो, is प्रयुक्त to determine जिससे टीमों qualify लिये the टूर्नामेंट साथ with the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ).
the 19 संसार Cup tournaments have महरूम won by eight अलग नेशनल टीमों.
Brazil have जीती पाँच टाइम्स, and they हैं the तभी टोली to have played in every टूर्नामेंट.
the other संसार Cup विजेता are Italy, साथ चार titles ; Germany, with तीन शीर्षक ; अर्जेंटीना and inaugural winners उरुग्वे, साथ two शीर्षक each ; और इंग्लैण्ड, France, and Spain, with एक शीर्षक each.
the World कप is the world 's सबसे widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1 million people देखी the final match of the 2006 FIFA संसार Cup held in जर्मनी.
the next three संसार cups will be hosted by Brazil in 2014, रूस in 2018, and क़तर in 2022.
The is an expansion device for the Wii रिमोट video game controller for the Wii कि allows it to more accurately कैप्चर complex motion.
according to निन्टेंडो, the सेंसर in the यंत्र पूरक the accelerometer and सेंसर Bar सामर्थ्य of the वी Remote to enable actions to be rendered identically on the screen in real समय.
The वी 's successor कंसोल, the Wii u, supports the वी motionplus and इसके peripherals in games where use of इसके touchscreen-built-in primary controller is नहीं जरुरी.
majulah singapura ( Onward Singapore ) is the national गान of सिंगापुर.
रचित by zubir कहा in 1958 as a थीम सोंग लिये official functions of the City Council of सिंगापुर, the song थी selected in 1959 as the द्वीप 's anthem when it attained self-government.
Upon पूरा independence in 1965, Majulah Singapura थी formally अपनाया as सिंगापुर 's नेशनल anthem.
By विधि the गान may तभी be sung साथ its original मलय गीत, although वहीँ मौजूद authorized translations of the lyrics of the anthem in Singapore 's तीन other official languages : English, Mandarin और Tamil.
originally रचित in the कुंजी of g major, in 2001 the नेशनल anthem was officially relaunched in the निम्नतर key of F major as this थी कहा to allow for a `` grander और अधिक प्रेरणादायी व्यवस्था ''.
The national anthem is regularly performed or सुंग in स्कूलों and हथियारबंद शक्तियां शिविरों at ceremonies आयोजित at the शुरूआत and/or the end of each दिन, during जिससे the national flag is भी उठाया और lowered और the नेशनल pledge is लिया.
singaporeans are especially प्रोत्साहित to गाओ the national गान on अवसरों of नेशनल celebration or नेशनल significance ऐसे as at the नेशनल दिन Parade, at नेशनल दिन observance ceremonies conducted by शैक्षणिक institutions and government departments, and at sporting कार्यक्रम at जिससे सिंगापुर teams हैं participating.
An expedition 's shipwrights भवन a brigantine, 1541.
shipbuilding is the construction of जहाजों and फ्लोटिंग बरतन.
it सामान्यतः takes place in a specialized सुविधा known as a shipyard.
Shipbuilders, also called shipwrights, follow a specialized occupation that traces its जड़ें to before recorded इतिहास.
shipbuilding और ship मरम्मत, both commercial and military, हैं referred to as `` naval engineering ''.
the construction of boats is a समान activity पुकारा boat भवन.
The dismantling of जहाजों is पुकारा ship breaking.
wakonda is a कस्बा in मिट्टी काउंटी, दक्षिण डकोटा, संयुक्त राज्य.
the population थी 321 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
The following is a list of the सबसे populous incorporated places of the संयुक्त States of अमेरिका.
As पारिभाषित by the United States Census Bureau, an `` incorporated place `` शामिल a किस्में of designations, सहित city, town, village, बरो, and municipality.
A few exceptional जनसांख्यिकी Designated स्थान ( CDPs ) हैं also included in the Census ब्यूरो 's लिस्टिंग of incorporated स्थान.
Consolidated city-counties represent a distinct type of government that includes the संपूर्ण जनसांख्यिकी of a काउंटी, or county equivalent.
कुछ संचित city-counties, however, शामिल अनेक incorporated places.
इस list presents तभी that portion ( or `` संतुलन '' ) of such संचित city-counties कि हैं नहीं a part of another incorporated place.
नोट that this list refers only to the जनसांख्यिकी of individual municipalities within their defined हद, which does नहीं शामिल other municipalities or unincorporated suburban areas भीतर शहरी agglomerations.
a different ranking is evident जब considering U.S. metropolitan क्षेत्रफल populations.
alt=larger flashcart, दिखाया with छोटी कार्ड और U.S. क्वार्टर लिये आकार
Nintendo ds storage devices are डिवाइस प्रयुक्त to store a licensed developer 's work-in-progress images, homebrew video खेल और डाउनलोड वाणिज्यिक खेल ( since the निन्टेंडो ds is not sold साथ a rewritable भंडार मीडियम ).
Licensed डेवलपर, however, can उपयोग a blue Intelligent Systems नाइट्रो emulator box to फ्लैश ताश.
These devices are also known as `` flashcarts '' or `` flashcards ''.
There हैं दो main classes of flashcarts : older डिवाइस which अनुरूप in slot-2 ( the Game Boy Advance खेल पाक slot ) and newer डिवाइस कि अनुरूप in slot-1 ( the DS खेल Card slot ).
Slot-2 ( or first-generation ) डिवाइस have महरूम historically सस्ता due to economies of स्केल ( inherited इससे उनके use साथ खेल लड़के अग्रिम ), but आवश्यकता a booting tool in Slot-1 in अनुक्रम to उपयोग the टच स्क्रीन and अन्य DS features.
Second-generation डिवाइस ( those जिससे तभी उपयोग Slot-1 ) do not कार्य साथ GBA homebrew, लकिन became कम expensive और easier to उपयोग, rivaling अनेक slot-2 devices in price.
first-generation डिवाइस शामिल gba flash कारतूस, gbamp CF, supercard, and m3.
Second-generation डिवाइस शामिल R4 Revolution, CycloDS, G6 Real and DS-X.
the storage device either contains फ्लैश memory or a slot लिये a मेमोरी कार्ड to स्टोर homebrew.
भंडार devices with a memory-card slot usually have अधिक storage capacity than flash-memory devices.
Although flash-memory क्षमता is usually measured in megabits ( mb ), memory-card क्षमता is usually measured in मेगाबाइट ( MB ) ( जहाँ 8 Mb is 1 MB ).
Storage-device ब्रांड्स differ in उनके support लिये homebrew ; ds and Game लड़के Advance roms ; special features ( such as ability to खेल media फाइलें ) ; physical size and cost.
सख्ती speaking, a भंडार device is not necessary लिये ds साथ FlashMe installed क्युकी homebrew can be भेजा to the DS using WMB.
However, this is नहीं an easily-portable विधि because the DS needs to be within range of a suitable wi-fi card.
हैं अमरीकी लोगों of जापानी heritage.
Japanese अमेरिकी have historically been among the three largest Asian अमरीकी समुदायों, but in हाल decades, it रै become the छठे largest समूह at roughly 1,304,286, including those of mixed-race or mixed-ethnicity.
in the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, the largest जापानी अमरीकी समुदायों यहूद मिला in California साथ 272,528, Hawaii साथ 185,502, New यॉर्क with 37,780, वॉशिंगटन with 35,008, and Illinois with 17,542.
दक्षिणी California has the largest Japanese-American जनसांख्यिकी in उत्तर अमेरिका.
200px
This is a व्यापक लिस्टिंग which highlights significant उपलब्धियाँ and milestones आधारित upon Billboard पत्रिका 's singles चार्ट, most notably the Billboard Hot 100.
This list spans from the issue दिनाँक जनवरी 1, 1955 to present.
The Billboard Hot 100 began with the समस्या दिनाँक August 4, 1958, and is फिलहाल the standard popular म्यूज़िक chart in the United राज्य.
prior to the सृष्टि of the hot 100, Billboard प्रकाशित चार singles charts : `` Best Sellers in स्टोर्स '', `` Most निभाई by jockeys '', `` Most निभाई in Jukeboxes '' and `` The Top 100 ''.
These चार्ट, जिससे ranged इससे 20 to 100 स्लॉट, were phased आउट at अलग times between 1957 और 1958.
Though technically नहीं भाग of the hot 100 चार्ट इतिहास, उनके आंकड़ा is शामिल लिये computational purposes, and to avoid unenlightening or misleading characterizations.
सब वस्तुएं सूचीबद्ध नीचे हैं इससे the Hot 100 era, unless otherwise noted ( pre-hot 100 charts ).
v is an अमरीकी विज्ञान fiction television श्रेणी that भागा लिये दो seasons on एबीसी, from नवम्बर 3, 2009 to कूच 15, 2011.
A remake of the 1983 miniseries निर्मित by केनेथ Johnson, the new series क्रॉनिकल्स the arrival on Earth of a technologically advanced alien प्रजाति which ostensibly comes in peace, लकिन दरअसल has sinister motives.
V सितारों Morena Baccarin, Lourdes Benedicto, Morris शाहबलूत, जोएल Gretsch, लोगन Huffman, Charles Mesure, एलिज़ाबेथ Mitchell, लौरा Vandervoort and Scott Wolf, and थी executive produced by Scott rosenbaum, यवेस Simoneau, Scott Peters, and Jace हॉल.
The series थी produced by the स्कॉट Peters कम्पनी, hdfilms and Warner भाईs. टेलीविज़न.
Geocaching is an बाहरी recreational कार्यकलाप, in जिससे the participants use a वैश्विक positioning प्रणाली ( GPS ) receiver or मोबाईल device and other navigational तकनीकों to छुपा और तलाश containers, पुकारा `` geocaches '' or `` caches '', anywhere in the world.
a typical cache is a small waterproof संग्राहक containing a logbook जहाँ the geocacher enters the तिथि वे found it और signs it with their established कोड नाम.
बाद हस्ताक्षर into the log, the cache जरूर be लगाई वापस exactly where the person found it.
larger containers such as प्लास्टिक storage containers ( tupperware or similar ) or ammunition बाक्स can भी contain items लिये trading, प्रायः toys or trinkets of छोटी मान.
geocaching shares many aspects with benchmarking, trigpointing, orienteering, treasure-hunting, letterboxing, and waymarking.
Boogie bas प्रोडक्शन्स थी a hip हॉप समूह कि was originally रचित of krs-one, D-Nice, और DJ Scott la चट्टान.
dj Scott La चट्टान was murdered on अगस्त 27, 1987, महीने बाद the release of bdp 's डेब्यू album, दण्ड Minded.
The नाम of the समूह, Boogie bas, गर्भाशयी from a nickname लिये the दक्षिण bronx section of The Bronx, एक of the five boroughs of नई York City.
the समूह pioneered the fusion of डांसहॉल reggae and hip हॉप music और उनके डेब्यू LP Criminal minded contained फ़्रैंक descriptions of जीवन in the South bronx of the late 1980s यूँ सेटिंग the stage लिये कया would आखिरकार become gangsta rap.
A municipal बंध is a bond जारी by a लोकल सरकारी, or their agencies.
संभावित issuers of municipal bonds include states, cities, काउंटी, redevelopment एजेंसियों, special-purpose जिले, स्कूल districts, public यूटिलिटी जिले, publicly owned airports and seaports, and कोई other governmental entity ( or समूह of governments ) at or नीचे the राज्य level.
Municipal bonds may be सामान्य obligations of the जारीकर्ता or secured by specified revenues.
In the संयुक्त राज्य, interest income received by धारकों of municipal bonds is प्रायः exempt इससे the संघीय income कर and from the income tax of the राज्य in which they हैं जारी, हालांकि municipal bonds issued लिये निश्चित purposes may not be tax exempt.
Unlike नई issue स्टॉक्स that are brought to market साथ दाम restrictions until the सौदे is बेची, नगरपालिका bonds are free to व्यापार at कोई time एकबार they are purchased by the निवेशकों.
Professional व्यापारियों regularly trade और retrade the same bonds several टाइम्स a week.
`` Gim me Some Lovin ' '' is a सोंग written by स्टीव winwood, Spencer Davis और muff winwood, और originally performed by the Spencer Davis Group.
The मौलिक riff of the song थी उधार from the Homer Banks सोंग `` ( Ai n't That ) A Lot of प्रेम '', लिखा by बैंको and विली Dean `` Deanie '' पार्कर.
`` Gim me कुछ Lovin ' '' थी a uk # 2 in the Autumn of 1966 और a us # 7.
the song is क्रमित # 247 on the रोलिंग Stone पत्रिका 's सूची of The 500 Greatest Songs of सब Time.
The version जारी in the UK ( and probably सबसे of यूरोपीय ) is different from कि issued in the us on the United कलाकारों label, होने धीमा, और lacking the बैकिंग vocals और `` live sounding '' प्रदर्शन मिला on the US सिंगल.
( the US version रै अधिक प्रायः been used on reissue CDs, भी those coming from यूरोपीय. )
The single सुविधाएँ the ध्वनि of the हैमंड B-3 organ.
the अंतरजाल Movie Database ( IMDb ) is an online database of सूचना सम्बन्धित to films, टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम, and video खेल.
इस शामिल अभिनेताओं, production क्रू personnel, और fictional characters प्रदर्शित in ये three विज़ुअल entertainment मीडिया.
it is एक of the सबसे popular ऑनलाइन entertainment destinations, साथ over 100 million unique उपयोक्ता each month और a ठोस और rapidly growing मोबाईल उपस्थिति.
IMDb थी शुभारम्भ on October 17, 1990, और in 1998 was acquired by amazon.com.
as of April 27, 2013, आईएमडीबी had 2,503,783 titles ( includes एपीसोड ) और 5,192,493 personalities in its डेटाबेस, as well as 43 लाख पंजीकृत users.
the website has an Alexa rank of 48.
Fibre Channel मेजबान Bus Adapter ( 64-bit PCI-X card )
scsi Host Bus Adapter ( 16-bit isa card )
In कंप्यूटर हार्डवेयर, a मेजबान controller, host एडाप्टर, or host bus adapter ( hba ) connects a host प्रणाली ( the कंप्यूटर ) to other network और storage devices.
The terms हैं primarily used to refer to डिवाइस for connecting scsi, Fibre चैनल और eSATA devices.
However, devices लिये connecting to आईडीई, ईथरनेट, firewire, usb and अन्य systems may भी be पुकारा मेजबान adapters.
recently, the आगमन of iSCSI और Fibre चैनल over Ethernet has brought परिचय ईथरनेट hbas, which are अलग इससे Ethernet nics in कि they include TCP offload Engines.
There are भी converged HBAs कि support दोनो Ethernet और fibre Channel पुकारा Converged Network Adapters ( cnas ).
Cashmere स्कार्फ
आधुनिक men 's cashmere sweaters लिये बिक्री.
cashmere wool, usually simply known as cashmere, is a रेशा obtained इससे cashmere बकरियों and other types of बकरी.
The word cashmere गर्भाशयी from an old स्पेलिंग of Kashmir.
Cashmere is ठीक in texture, strong, लाइट, और नरम.
garments made इससे it provide बेहतरीन इन्सुलेशन.
In the United States, under the u.s. Wool Products labeling Act of 1939, as amended, ( 15 uction 68b ( a ) ( 6 ) ), राज्य that a ऊन or वस्त्र उत्पाद may नहीं be labeled as containing cashmere unless:
such ऊन उत्पाद is the ठीक ( dehaired ) undercoat fibers produced by a cashmere बकरी ( Capra hircus laniger ) ;
the औसत व्यास of the रेशा of ऐसे ऊन उत्पाद does not exceed 19 microns ; और
ऐसे ऊन उत्पाद does नहीं contain अधिक than 3 percent ( by वज़न ) of cashmere fibers with average diameters that exceed 30 माइक्रोन.
the average fiber diameter may be विषय to a गुणांक of variation around the mean that shall not exceed 24 प्रतिशत.
जेनिफर Convertibles inc. is the मालिक और licensor of sofabed and leather specialty retail स्टोर्स in the संयुक्त राज्य, with stores located throughout the Eastern seaboard, in the Midwest, on the West Coast और in the दक्षिणपश्चिम.
The company थी संस्थापित in 1975 and is आधारित in woodbury, New यॉर्क.
on जुलाई 19, 2010, the company announced कि it had दायर लिये bankruptcy as a consequence of `` substantial losses ''.
according to फर्नीचर आज the कम्पनी थी क्रमांक 48 among furniture retailers साथ US $ 114 million in sales लिये the year ending August 29, 2009.
it subsequently उभरा from Chapter 11 under the कंट्रोल of इसके major प्रदायक, the haining mengnu समूह.
अंडा roll is a term प्रयुक्त लिये अनेक अलग भोजन around the संसार.
2__egg_roll __ किस्में of egg रोल्स are मिला in mainland चीन, अनेक chinese-speaking regions of एशिया, and Chinese immigrant communities around the world.
Egg rolls as referred to in China.
In guangdong और Hong Kong, अंडा roll usually refers to बिस्किट फेंकें.
इस is a प्रकार of biscuit.
The संघटक शामिल अंडा, flour और शुगर.
अंडा roll also is a डिश in कैण्टन and Hong काँग, इस is usually made साथ सब्ज़ी.
Within China egg rolls हैं eaten predominantly in the southeast and are नहीं as commonly consumed in the उत्तर and पश्चिमी parts of चीन.
In अमरीकी Chinese cuisine, an egg फेंकें is a savory डिश typically served as an क्षुधावर्धक.
It is प्रायः भरवां with chicken, पोर्क or shrimp, गोभी, गाजर, टमाटर, bean sprouts और अन्य सब्जियां, और then गहन fried.
इस variety of the अंडा फेंकें is बहुत आम and लोकप्रिय, across भी क्षेत्रीय varieties of American Chinese food, और is प्रायः शामिल as part of a `` संयोजन platter ''.
in मॉन्ट्रियल, कनाडा, open-ended eggrolls are a Jewish-Chinese fusion dish.
They can be either कोषेर certified or merely कोषेर style.
Pain और suffering is the विधिक पद लिये the शारीरिक और emotional तनाव caused from an चोट ( देखिए also pain and suffering ).
कुछ क्षतिपूर्ति कि might be अंतर्गत this category होता be : aches, अस्थाई and स्थाई limitations on कार्यकलाप, potential shortening of जीवन, depression or scarring.
जब दाखिल a मुकदमा as a परिणाम of an चोट, it is आम for someone to तलाश धन both in compensation for actual money that is खोया and लिये the पीड़ा और तनाव संबद्ध with वस्तुतः any injury.
In a suit, पीड़ा और suffering is part of the `` सामान्य क्षतिपूर्ति '' खण्ड of the claimant 's अर्जी, or, alternatively, it is an element of `` compensatory '' non-economic damages that allows recovery for the mental anguish and/or physical pain endured by the claimant as a result of चोट लिये जिससे the अभियोक्ता seeks redress.
अलावा इससे धन damages awarded in trial, money क्षतिपूर्ति are भी given informally बाहर the judicial प्रणाली in mediations, मध्यस्थता ( दोनो of which may be court annexed or non litigated claims ) as well as in routine insurance settlements.
Individual claimants or those represented by lawyers प्रायः present demands to insurers to settle लिये money.
These माँग for bodily injury मुआवजे monies प्रायः set आउट damages कि हैं similarly प्रयुक्त in the अदालत litigated pleadings.
Demands हैं usually लिखा summaries of a claimant 's चिकित्सा care और the facts जिससे resulted in the injury.
Sample of a medallion हस्ताक्षर गारंटी stampin
the संयुक्त States and कनाडा, a medallion हस्ताक्षर guarantee is a special signature गारंटी for the ट्रांसफ़र of प्रतिभूति.
It is a गारंटी by the transferring वित्तीय संस्था that the हस्ताक्षर is genuine और the वित्तीय institution accepts liability for any जालसाजी.
Signature guarantees protect shareholders by preventing unauthorized हस्तांतरण और possible investor नुकसान.
They also limit the देयता of the ट्रांसफ़र एजेंट जो स्वीकृत the certificates.
Different संस्थानों have अलग नीतियों as to कया प्रकार of identification वे require to provide the गारंटी और whether वे चार्ज a शुल्क लिये ऐसे सेवा ( प्रायः नाममात्र if any ).
Most संस्थानों will नहीं guarantee a signature of someone जो has नहीं already been their ग्राहक.
a medallion signature गारंटी is not the वही as an acknowledgment by a notary public, in the sense कि a `` हस्ताक्षर guarantee '' is a प्रमाणन by the संस्था कि the signature is authentic, and an acknowledgment is a certification by a नोटरी public attesting कि the signer हस्ताक्षरित a document voluntarily.
कुछ banks may no longer provide this service, however, many स्टिल do as खूब as अन्य financial institutions ऐसे as a Savings and Loans and क्रेडिट Unions.
At their sole discretion, ये संस्थानों may still decline to provide the Medallion Signature guarantees.
When us citizens are विदेश, कुछ वित्तीय संस्थानों may accept United States Embassy Seals, in place of the medallion Signature गारंटी Stamp.
Pacific Electric रेल streetcars stacked at a junkyard on टर्मिनल Island, Los एंजिल्स काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, कूच 1956
The सामान्य मोटर्स स्ट्रीटकार conspiracy ( भी known as the ग्रेट American स्ट्रीटकार कांड ) refers to दोषारोपण and convictions in relation to a कार्यक्रम by General Motors ( GM ) and अन्य companies जो खरीदा and तब dismantled streetcar and इलेक्ट्रिक train systems in many American शहरों.
Between 1936 और 1950, नेशनल City Lines and प्रशांत City लाइनों —with निवेश इससे gm, firestone Tire, Standard आयल of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, phillips पेट्रोलियम, Mack ट्रक, and the संघीय अभियान्त्रिकी corporation—bought over 100 इलेक्ट्रिक surface-traction प्रणालियों in 45 शहरों सहित Baltimore, Newark, Los एंजिल्स, New York नगर, Oakland and San Diego और converted उन्हें into bus आपरेशन.
Several of the कंपनियाँ शामिल यहूद convicted in 1949 of conspiracy to monopolize अंतरराज्यीय कॉमर्स लकिन यहूद acquitted of conspiring to monopolize the स्वामित्व of ये companies.
कुछ suggest कि इस program निभाई a key role in the मनाही of पब्लिक transit in cities आरपार the संयुक्त States ; notably Edwin J. quinby, जो first खींचा attention to the कार्यक्रम in 1946, and तब Bradford C. Snell, an anti-trust attorney for the United राज्य सीनेट whose controversial 1974 गवाही to a Senate inquiry brought the समस्या to नेशनल awareness.
दोनो Quinby and Snell argued that the deliberate विनाश of streetcars was भाग of a larger strategy to push the United राज्य into ऑटोमोबाइल dependency.
अन्य say that independent आर्थिक कारकों brought about परिवर्तन in the पारगमन system, including the ग्रेट Depression, the पब्लिक Utility पकड़कर Company अधिनियम of 1935, मजदूर unrest, market forces, rapidly increasing ट्रैफ़िक जमघट, शहरी sprawl, कराधान नीतियों कि favored निजी गाडी स्वामित्व, और सामान्य enthusiasm लिये the automobile.
एक writer on the विषय रै सुझाया कि Snell and अन्य fell into simplistic षड्यंत्र theory thinking, bordering on paranoid delusions saying `` Clearly, gm waged a युद्ध on electric traction.
It was indeed an all आउट assault, लकिन by no अर्थात् the single reason for the विफलता of rapid transit.
Also, it is just as साफ कि क्रियाएँ and inactions by सरकारी contributed significantly to the विलोपन of इलेक्ट्रिक कर्षण. ''
Only a छोटी handful of u.S. cities have surviving effective rail-based शहरी transport systems आधारित on streetcars or trams, सहित न्यूर्क, फिलाडेल्फिया, San Francisco, Pittsburgh, and बोस्टन ; अन्य are re-introducing them.
the story has been छान several times in print, film and other media, notably in Who Framed रोजर खरगोश, Taken for a Ride और The End of Suburbia.
corwin हाउस, Salem, मैसाचुसेट्स, built ca. 1660, पहला काल अंग्रेज़ी
अमरीकी colonial वास्तुकला includes several building डिज़ाइन styles संबद्ध साथ the औपनिवेशिक period of the United States, सहित First Period अंग्रेज़ी ( late-medieval ), फ्रेंच Colonial, स्पेनी औपनिवेशिक, डच Colonial and जॉर्जियाई.
These शैलियाँ are संबद्ध with the घरों, चर्च and सरकारी इमारतें of the period from परिचय 1600 through the 19th century.
`` In the Mood '' is a big बैंड era # 1 hit अंकित by American bandleader ग्लेन Miller.
it topped the charts in 1940 in the u.S. और one साल बाद was featured in the movie सूर्य घाटी serenade.
In 1999, नेशनल पब्लिक Radio ( NPR ) शामिल the 1939 ग्लेन मिलर रिकॉर्डिंग on आरसीए Bluebird on the npr 100, the list of `` the 100 सबसे महत्वपूर्ण अमरीकी musical works of the 20th century ''.
वरुण logo
the NEPTUNE Canada project is the world’s पहला regional-scale भाटे समंदर observatory कि plugs सीधे into the अंतरजाल.
चूंकि दिसम्बर 2009, it रै अनुमत people to `` लहरे '' the seafloor while समंदर scientists run deep-water experiments from लैब्स और विश्वविद्यालयों around the संसार.
साथ साथ its sister प्रोजेक्ट, VENUS, NEPTUNE offers a अद्वितीय approach to समंदर science.
Traditionally, समंदर वैज्ञानिकों have relied on infrequent ship क्रूज़ or space-based satellites to carry out their research, while the वरुण project उपयोग a remotely संचालित क्रॉलर.
a gramophone रिकार्ड, commonly known as a phonograph record ( in अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी ), vinyl record ( in सन्दर्भ to विनाइल, the सामग्री सबसे commonly used after परिचय 1950 ), or colloquially, `` a record '', is an एनालॉग sound भंडार मीडियम consisting of a flat disc with an inscribed, modulated सर्पिल groove.
the groove usually starts निकट the periphery और ends near the center of the disc.
Phonograph रिकॉर्ड हैं generally वर्णित by उनके diameter in inches ( 12-inch, 10-inch, 7-inch, etc. ), the rotational गति at which वे are played ( `` 33 rpm ``, `` 78 '', `` 45 '', etc. ), उनके time क्षमता ( `` long playing '' ), their reproductive सटीकता, or `` fidelity `` ( `` high वफ़ादारी '', `` Orthophonic '', `` full-range '', इत्यादि. ), और the number of चैनल्स of ऑडियो provided ( `` mono ``, `` stereo ``, `` quadraphonic ``, इत्यादि. ).
Phonograph records यहूद the प्राथमिक मीडियम प्रयुक्त for music जनन for most of the 20th century, replacing the phonograph cylinder, साथ जिससे it था co-existed, by the 1920s.
by the late 1980s, digital media था gained a larger market share, और the विनाइल record left the मुख्यधारा in 1991.
They continue to be manufactured और sold in the 21st century.
in 2008, nearly 2.9 लाख units shipped, the most in कोई साल since 1998 और the format रै जारी to धीरे regain लोकप्रियता.
वे हैं विशेषकर प्रयुक्त by djs and audiophiles for अनेक types of music.
As of 2013, vinyl records continue to be प्रयुक्त लिये distribution.
घासभूमि in the Santa रोजा पठार, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
Grassland in the antelope घाटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया
the Konza tallgrass prairie in the Flint पहाड़ियाँ of northeastern कान्सास.
A घासभूमि in the फिलीपीन.
An भीतरी Mongolian grassland in the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन
Grasslands are क्षेत्रों where the वनस्पति is dominated by grasses ( पोएसी ), however sedge ( Cyperaceae ) और फटाफट ( Juncaceae ) families can भी be found.
Grasslands occur naturally on सब continents मगर अंटार्कटिक.
in शीतोष्ण latitudes, such as northwestern यूरोपीय और the ग्रेट Plains and कैलिफ़ोर्निया in North अमेरिका, native grasslands हैं dominated by perennial गुच्छा ग्रास प्रजाति, whereas in warmer climates annual प्रजाति form a वृहद घटक of the vegetation.
grasslands हैं found in most ecoregions of the धरती.
लिये उदाहरण there हैं five स्थलीय ecoregion classifications ( subdivisions ) of the शीतोष्ण grasslands, savannas, and shrublands biome ( ' ecosystem ' ), जिससे is one of आठ स्थलीय ecozones of the Earth 's सतह.
Henna ( lawsonia inermis, also पुकारा henna पेड़ ) or Hina is a flowering संयंत्र, the एकमात्र प्रजाति in the genus lawsonia in the परिवार Lythraceae.
the English name `` हिना '' आता from the Arabic ( ALA-LC : ḥinnāʾ / सुनाया ) or colloquially, loosely सुनाया.
the name is also प्रयुक्त for dye preparations निकला from the संयंत्र, and लिये the आर्ट of अस्थाई tattooing आधारित on those dyes.
हिना रै been प्रयुक्त चूंकि antiquity to dye skin, hair, and fingernails, as खूब as fabrics including Silk, wool और चमड़े.
Additionally, the name is misused for अन्य skin और बाल dyes, such as black henna or न्यूट्रल हिना, which are not derived इससे the संयंत्र.
A thin film is a परत of material ranging from fractions of a nanometer ( monolayer ) to several micrometers in thickness.
Electronic सेमीकंडक्टर devices and optical coatings हैं the main applications benefiting from thin-film construction.
a familiar अनुप्रयोग of पतला films is the household दर्पण, which typically has a पतला metal कोटिंग on the वापस of a sheet of glass to रूप a परावर्तक interface.
the प्रक्रम of silvering थी एकबार commonly प्रयुक्त to produce mirrors.
A very-thin-film कोटिंग ( less than a nanometer thick ) is used to उपज two-way mirrors.
the performance of ऑप्टिकल coatings ( e.g. antireflective, or ar, coatings ) हैं typically उन्नत when the thin-film coating consists of multiple परतों having varying thicknesses और refractive indices.
Similarly, a periodic ढांचा of प्रत्यावर्ती पतला films of अलग materials may collectively form a so-called superlattice which exploits the phenomenon of quantum कारावास by restricting इलेक्ट्रॉनिक phenomena to two-dimensions.
Work is being किया साथ ferromagnetic and ferroelectric thin films for उपयोग as कंप्यूटर मेमोरी.
It is also होने लागू to दवाएँ, via thin-film drug delivery.
Thin-films हैं प्रयुक्त to produce thin-film batteries.
Thin films हैं भी used in dye-sensitized सौर cells.
सिरेमिक पतला films are in wide use.
the अपेक्षाकृत high कठोरता और inertness of सिरेमिक सामग्री make this type of पतला coating of interest for सुरक्षा of substrate सामग्री विरूद्ध corrosion, ऑक्सीकरण and wear.
In particular, the उपयोग of such coatings on कटिंग tools can extend the life of these items by several orders of परिमाण.
Research is होने किया on a नई class of thin-film inorganic oxide materials, पुकारा amorphous heavy-metal cation multicomponent आक्साइड, which could be used to मेक पारदर्शी transistors कि हैं inexpensive, stable, and environmentally benign.
गियर्स of युद्ध is a military विज्ञान fiction third-person shooter वीडियो खेल विकसित by Epic Games and published by microsoft खेल Studios.
It थी initially released as an exclusive शीर्षक लिये the Xbox 360 in नवम्बर 2005 in North अमेरिका, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, और most of यूरोपीय और included a `` सीमित कलेक्टर 's संस्करण '' साथ added सामग्री and an आर्ट किताब titled Destroyed सौंदर्य that विस्तृत much of the game 's back-story.
despite the initial statements of Xbox 360 exclusivity, a microsoft खिड़कियाँ संस्करण of the खेल was developed in संयोजन साथ People can मक्खी और released a year later, featuring new सामग्री including additional अभियान स्तर, a new एकाधिक खेल mode, और Games for Windows सजीव functionality.
the game focuses on the सैनिकों of डेल्टा Squad as they wield a desperate, last-ditch attempt to सहेजें the remaining इंसान निवासियों of the fictional ग्रह sera from a अथक और seemingly अजेय subterranean दुश्मन known as the Locust Horde.
the player assumes the role of मार्कस fenix ( लकिन can भी खेल as डोमिनिक सैंटियागो ), a पूर्व कैदी and war-hardened soldier.
The game is आधारित on the उपयोग of cover and रणनीतिक fire for the player to advance through the scenarios ; a दूसरी खिलाड़ी can खेल cooperatively through the प्रमुख अभियान to assist.
the खेल भी features अनेक online एकाधिक game modes लिये up to आठ players.
Gears of युद्ध sold over तीन लाख copies in बस ten सप्ताह and थी the fastest-selling वीडियो खेल of 2005 as खूब as the second-most played खेल over Xbox सजीव दौरान.
It फिलहाल stands as the 5th best selling एक्सबॉक्स 360 game of all time.
The game रै चूंकि sold over five लाख नक़ल by September 2008.
the खेल थी खूब received by critics, who praised इसके gameplay और detailed visuals, and it जीती several `` खेल of the साल '' पुरस्कार in 2006.
The success of the खेल रै led to the development of the गियर्स of War franchise, सहित the 2008 sequel गियर्स of युद्ध 2 and its follow-up, गियर्स of युद्ध 3, जिससे थी released on September 20, 2011, बाद having initially been set to have been released on अप्रैल 5, 2011, the तिथि upon जिससे एपिक Games ' चट्टान Bleszinski थी a अतिथि on लेट Night साथ Jimmy fallon.
adaptations to books, comics, as खूब as a feature फिल्मी are to be अपेक्षित.
A पेड़ grows in Brooklyn is a 1943 novel written by Betty Smith.
The story focuses on an irish-american family in williamsburg, ब्रुकलीन, New York City.
the अनोखा is नियत in the first और second decades of the 20th सदी.
The book थी an immense success.
The प्रमुख रूपक of the book is the हार्डी पेड़ of Heaven, native to China और Taiwan, अभी considered हृदयरोग, और common in the vacant lots of New यॉर्क नगर.
संसार map with the intertropical मण्डल highlighted in red.
तीव्र जलवायु zones of the धरती जहाँ सब बारह months have औसत temperatures above 18 °C ( 64 °f ).
the tropics is a region of the Earth surrounding the Equator.
it is limited in latitude by the Tropic of कर्कट in the northern गोलार्ध at लगभग n और the tropic of Capricorn in the southern hemisphere at S ; ये latitudes correspond to the axial tilt of the धरती.
The tropics are also referred to as the tropical मण्डल और the torrid मण्डल ( see geographical zone ).
The tropics शामिल all the areas on the धरती where the Sun reaches a पाइंट directly overhead at least एकबार during the सौर year.
The ऊष्णकटिबन्ध हैं विशिष्ट इससे the other climatic and biomatic regions of धरती, the middle latitudes और the ध्रुवीय regions on either पक्ष of the भूमध्यरेखीय zone.
For the inxs song, see What You need ( song ).
`` What You Need '' is an एपीसोड of the अमरीकी television anthology series the गोधूलि मण्डल.
it is based on the छोटी स्टोरी of the वही नाम by लुईस Padgett ( Henry kuttner और C. L. Moore ).
PlayhouseSquare, in the क्लीवलैंड थिएटर ज़िला in शहर क्लीवलैंड, Ohio, is the second-largest थिएटर जटिल in the संयुक्त States, second only to नई York City 's Lincoln Center ).
Constructed in a स्पैन of 19 महीने in the जल्दी 1920s, the theaters यहूद subsequently बंद down, लकिन यहूद revived through a grassroots effort.
Their renovation and reopening helped usher in a new era of downtown revitalization in Cleveland, and थी called `` one of the top टेन successes in Cleveland history. ''
The driver और passenger सामने airbags, बाद having been तैनात, in a British peugeot 306 car.
an एयरबैग is a vehicle safety यंत्र.
it is an occupant restraint प्रणाली consisting of a लचीली fabric envelope or cushion designed to inflate rapidly during an ऑटोमोबाइल टक्कर.
इसके purpose is to cushion occupants दौरान a crash and provide सुरक्षा to उनके bodies जब they स्ट्राइक आंतरिक वस्तुएँ such as the steering wheel or a window.
Modern वाहनों may contain multiple airbag मौड्यूल in various पक्ष और frontal स्थितियाँ of the passenger seating स्थितियाँ, and सेंसर may तैनात one or more airbags in an impact मण्डल at परिवर्तनीय rates based on the प्रकार, angle और severity of प्रभाव ; the एयरबैग is designed to तभी inflate in मॉडरेट to severe frontal crashes.
Airbags हैं normally designed साथ the इरादे of supplementing the protection of an occupant जो is correctly restrained साथ a seatbelt.
सबसे designs हैं inflated through pyrotechnic अर्थात् and can तभी be संचालित एकबार.
Newer side-impact airbag मौड्यूल consist of संपीडित एयर cylinders कि हैं triggered in the इवेंट of a side impact गाडी impact.
the first commercial designs were introduced in यात्री automobiles during the 1970s with limited कामयाबी.
Broad commercial adoption of airbags occurred in अनेक markets दौरान the late 1980s और early 1990s साथ a driver एयरबैग, and a front यात्री एयरबैग as well on some cars ; and many आधुनिक vehicles now include चार or more units.
irs tax forms are प्रयुक्त लिये करदाताओं और tax-exempt संगठन to report financial information to the आतंरिक आय सेवा ( irs ) of the संयुक्त राज्य.
They are प्रयुक्त to report income, गणना taxes to be सशुल्क to the federal सरकारी of the संयुक्त States, and disclose other सूचना as जरूरी by the आतंरिक आय Code ( IRC ).
There are over 800 various फ़ॉर्म and schedules.
The best-known of ये is Form 1040 used by individuals.
In the संयुक्त राज्य, ड्राइवर 's पंक्तियां are issued by each individual state ( including Washington, d.C. and territories ), बल्कि than the संघीय सरकारी क्युकी of the राजनैतिक concept of संघवाद.
ड्राइवर हैं normally जरूरी to obtain a license इससे their राज्य of निवास and all राज्य recognize प्रत्येक अन्य 's licenses लिये temporary visitors subject to normal age requirements.
a state may also बर्खास्तगी an individual 's ड्राइविंग privilege भीतर its सीमायें for ट्रैफ़िक violations.
Many राज्य share a आम प्रणाली of license classes, with कुछ अपवाद, and commercial अनुज्ञा classes हैं standardized by संघीय regulation at 49 CFR part 383.
चीन रै been the source of अनेक inventions, सहित the चार Great आविष्कारों : papermaking, the कम्पास, gunpowder, और मुद्रण ( दोनो woodblock और movable प्रकार ).
The सूची below contains ये and अन्य आविष्कारों.
the Chinese invented technologies involving mechanics, hydraulics, और mathematics applied to horology, metallurgy, खगोलशास्त्र, agriculture, engineering, म्यूज़िक सिद्धान्त, craftsmanship, nautics, and warfare.
By the युद्धरत राज्य काल ( 403–221 bc ), वे था advanced metallurgic technology, सहित the blast furnace और cupola भट्टी, while the finery forge और puddling process यहूद ज्ञात by the Han Dynasty ( 202 BC – AD 220 ).
a sophisticated economic system in China दिया जनम to inventions ऐसे as paper धन during the सोंग Dynasty ( 960–1279 ).
the आविष्कार of gunpowder by the 10th century led to an array of inventions ऐसे as the आग तलवार, जमीन mine, नवल mine, hand तोपों, exploding गोलों, multistage rocket, and प्रक्षेपास्त्र bombs with aerodynamic wings और explosive payloads.
With the navigational aid of the 11th-century compass and क्षमता to steer at high समुद्र with the 1st-century sternpost अरित्र, premodern चाइनीज sailors sailed as दूर as East Africa और मिश्र.
In water-powered clockworks, the premodern Chinese था used the escapement mechanism since the 8th सदी and the endless power-transmitting कड़ी drive in the 11th सदी.
वे also made विशाल mechanical कठपुतली theaters चलित by waterwheels and carriage पहियों और wine-serving automatons चलित by paddle व्हील boats.
the contemporaneous Peiligang and Pengtoushan संस्कृतियों represent the oldest Neolithic cultures of China and यहूद formed around 7000 bc.
Some of the first inventions of Neolithic, प्रागैतिहासिक चीन include semilunar and आयताकार स्टोन knives, स्टोन hoes and spades, the cultivation of बाजरा, राइस and the सोयाबीन, the refinement of sericulture, the building of rammed धरती structures with lime -plastered हाउस floors, the सृष्टि of the कुम्हार 's wheel, the सृष्टि of pottery with cord-mat-basket डिजाइन, the सृष्टि of pottery tripods and pottery steamers, and the विकास of ceremonial vessels और scapulimancy for purposes of भविष्यवाणी.
Francesca ब्रे argues कि the domestication of the ox and भैंस during the Longshan culture ( c. 3000–c. 2000 bc ) period, the absence of longshan-era सिंचाई or high-yield crops, पूरा प्रमाण of longshan cultivation of dry-land खाद्यान्न फसलों जिससे दिया ऊँची yields `` only when the soil was carefully cultivated, '' suggest कि the plow was known at least by the longshan culture काल and explains the high agricultural उत्पादन yields जिससे अनुमत the rise of चाइनीज civilization during the शांग Dynasty ( c. 1600–c. 1050 bc ).
With बाद आविष्कारों such as the multiple-tube बीज drill and भारी moldboard iron हल, China 's agricultural आउटपुट could sustain a much larger population.
For the उद्देश्य of this list, inventions are regarded as technological firsts developed in चीन, और as ऐसे करता नहीं शामिल foreign technologies which the चाइनीज acquired through सम्पर्क, ऐसे as the पवनचक्की from the मध्य ईस्ट or the दूरदर्शी from Early modern यूरोपीय.
it भी does नहीं शामिल technologies विकसित elsewhere and later invented separately by the Chinese, ऐसे as the odometer and कड़ी pump.
वैज्ञानिक, mathematic or natural discoveries, changes in minor अवधारणाओं of design or स्टाइल and artistic नवप्रवर्तनों can नहीं be regarded as inventions और do नहीं appear on the list.
Gross घरेलू product in 2011 us डॉलर प्रति capita, समायोजित लिये महंगाई and खरीदना शक्ति पैरिटी ( log स्केल ) from 1860 to 2011, with जनसांख्यिकी ( disk क्षेत्रफल ) लिये the US ( yellow ), UK ( orange ), जापानी ( रेड ), China ( red ), और इण्डिया ( ब्लू ).
वैश्वीकरण ( or globalisation—see spelling मतभेद ) is the प्रक्रम of international integration arising इससे the interchange of संसार views, उत्पाद, ideas, and अन्य aspects of संस्कृति.
Put in सरल terms, वैश्वीकरण refers to प्रक्रियाओं that promote world-wide exchanges of नेशनल and सांस्कृतिक resources.
Advances in transportation and telecommunications infrastructure, सहित the rise of the Internet, हैं major factors in वैश्वीकरण, generating further interdependence of आर्थिक and सांस्कृतिक activities.
हालांकि अनेक विद्वानों प्लेस the origins of globalization in आधुनिक times, others ट्रेस its history long पहले the European आयु of डिस्कवरी and voyages to the New संसार.
कुछ even trace the origins to the third millennium BCE.
चूंकि the beginning of the 20th सदी, the pace of globalization has intensified at a rapid rate, especially during the Post Cold War era.
The पद globalization रै been in increasing उपयोग चूंकि the mid-1980s and विशेषकर चूंकि the mid-1990s.
in 2000, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मौद्रिक निधि ( imf ) पहचाना चार basic aspects of वैश्वीकरण : व्यापार and transactions, पूंजी और निवेश movements, माइग्रेशन and movement of people और the dissemination of knowledge.
Further, environmental challenges such as climate change, cross-boundary जल and air pollution, and over-fishing of the समंदर are linked साथ globalization.
Globalizing प्रक्रियाओं affect और are affected by business और कार्य organization, अर्थशास्त्र, socio-cultural resources, और the प्राकृतिक environment.
the replacements is a 2000 American sports comedy फिल्मी निर्देशित by Howard deutch.
It stars Keanu Reeves, जीन hackman, और Brooke langton.
An American Airlines वायुयान takes बंद इससे dallas/fort लायक अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport.
इस विमानक्षेत्र is the airline 's largest हब.
अमरीकी Airlines flies to 79 domestic गंतव्यों और 78 अंतरराष्ट्रीय destinations in 48 देशों.
( as of December 2012 )
the list includes the नगर, देश, the कोड of the International Air हस्तांतरण Association ( iata विमानक्षेत्र कोड ) और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय सिविल Aviation Organization ( icao airport code ), and the airport 's नाम, with the airline 's hubs, focus शहरों और मौसमी गंतव्यों marked.
The सूची भी contains गंतव्यों no longer served by the एयरलाइन, which हैं marked as terminated destinations.
it करता not include गंतव्यों served लिये अमरीकी Airlines by इसके regional affiliates American त्रिभुज Airlines, कार्यपालिका Airlines, and americanconnection.
`` day-o ( the Banana Boat सोंग ) '' is a traditional jamaican mento folk song, the best-known version of which थी सुंग by Harry Belafonte और an वैकल्पिक संस्करण interspersed साथ another jamaican folksong, Hill and गुल्ली सवार, by dame शर्ली bassey.
Despite the सोंग 's mento प्रभाव, `` Day-O ( the Banana Boat सोंग ) '' is widely ज्ञात as an उदाहरण of calypso म्यूज़िक.
it is a work सोंग, इससे the point of view of डॉक workers working the रात्रि शिफ़्ट loading केले onto ships.
Daylight has come, the shift is over and वे want उनके कार्य to be counted up so that they can go home.
World War i ( WWI ) was a वैश्विक युद्ध केंद्रित in Europe कि began on 28 July 1914 and lasted जबतक 11 नवम्बर 1918.
it थी predominantly पुकारा the संसार युद्ध or the Great War इससे its occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of संसार War ii in 1939, और the First World War or संसार युद्ध I thereafter.
it involved सब the संसार 's ग्रेट powers, which यहूद assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( आधारित on the ट्रिपल Entente of the United किंगडम, France और Russia ) and the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary and इटली ; but, as austria–hungary had लिया the अप्रिय विरूद्ध the agreement, Italy किया not enter into the युद्ध ).
ये alliances यहूद दोनो reorganised और expanded as अधिक राष्ट्र डाला the युद्ध : Italy, जापानी और the संयुक्त States joined the Allies, and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the सेंट्रल शक्तियां.
Ultimately, more than 70 लाख military personnel, सहित 60 million Europeans, were mobilised in एक of the largest युद्धों in history.
अधिक than 9 million combatants were मारे, largely because of technological advancements कि led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without सम्बन्धित सुधार in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world इतिहास, subsequently paving the way for various political changes, such as revolutions in many of the राष्ट्र शामिल.
एक of the long-term causes of the युद्ध was the पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in the विदेशी नीतियों of the ग्रेट powers of यूरोपीय.
अधिक तत्काल, the assassination of archduke Franz फर्डिनेंड of Austria, the heir to the throne of austria-hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist gavrilo princip in Sarajevo triggered a राजनयिक संकट जब Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the किंगडम of सर्बिया.
Several alliances formed over the पिछला decades were invoked.
भीतर सप्ताह, the प्रमुख powers were at war और, via their colonies, the conflict जल्द spread around the world.
on 28 जुलाई, the Austro-Hungarians fired the पहला गोलियाँ of the युद्ध as preparation for the invasion of सर्बिया.
While the russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral बेल्जियम and ध्वज on the रास्ता to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli for ब्रिटेन 's declaration of war against जर्मनी.
बाद the जर्मनी कूच on Paris थी brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the पश्चिमी सामने settled into a स्थिर बैटल of attrition with a trench line कि changed छोटी until 1917.
on the पूर्वी Front, the Russian फौज थी successful against the Austro-Hungarians, but थी रोका in its invasion of ईस्ट prussia by the Germans.
in नवम्बर the Ottoman Empire joined the war, opening up fronts in the Caucasus, मेसोपोटामिया and the Sinai.
Italy और बुल्गारिया went to युद्ध in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
in Russia, the त्सार 's सरकारी collapsed in कूच 1917 and a subsequent क्रान्ति in November brought the russians to terms साथ the Central शक्तियां.
After a 1918 German अप्रिय along the western front, the allies drove back the Germans in a श्रेणी of कामयाब offensives और American forces began प्रवेश the trenches.
जर्मनी, which had its अपना ट्रबल साथ revolutionaries, सहमत to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
the युद्ध ended in victory लिये the allies.
Events on the घर fronts यहूद as tumultuous as on the बैटल fronts, as the भागीदार tried to mobilize उनके जनशक्ति और आर्थिक resources to fight a कुल युद्ध.
By the समाप्त of the युद्ध, four major imperial powers—the जर्मनी, Russian, austro-hungarian and उस्मानी empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the former two lost a ग्रेट amount of territory, जबकि the latter दो यहूद dismantled entirely.
The मैप of central यूरोपीय was redrawn into several छोटी राज्य.
the League of Nations was formed in the आशा of preventing another such विरोध.
The यूरोपीय राष्ट्रवाद spawned by the युद्ध और the ब्रेकअप of empires, the repercussions of जर्मनी 's defeat और problems with the Treaty of versailles are सहमत to be factors contributing to World युद्ध II.
नर्स Jackie is an American series that premiered on June 8, 2009, on showtime, फिल्म सेंट्रल और the Movie संजाल.
The series stars Edie Falco as the शीर्षक अक्षर जैकी Peyton, an आपात department nurse at सब Saints ' Hospital in नई यॉर्क City.
लिये जैकी, `` प्रत्येक दिन is a ऊँची तार act of juggling मरीजों, doctors, fellow nurses and उसके own indiscretions. ''
keeping up with the Kardashians ( प्रायः referred to simply as The kardashians ) is an अमरीकी reality television series that premiered on October 14, 2007, on e !.
It फ़ॉलो the जीवनदान of the Kardashian/Jenner family, including sisters Kourtney, Kim, and Khloé कार्दशियन.
The श्रेणी ' success has led to the spin-offs Kourtney and Kim लो New यॉर्क, khloé & लैमर, कोर्टनी और Khloé लो Miami, and कोर्टनी and Kim Take Miami.
Afghanistan ( ; ; ), officially the इस्लामी गणतंत्र of Afghanistan, is a landlocked sovereign state forming part of दक्षिण Asia, सेंट्रल एशिया, और to some extent पश्चिमी एशिया.
It रै a population of around 30 million inhabiting an क्षेत्रफल of approximately, बनाना it the 42nd most populous और 41st largest स्वदेश in the संसार.
it is bordered by पाकिस्तानी in the south और the ईस्ट, Iran in the वेस्ट, तुर्कमेनिस्तान, Uzbekistan and ताजिकिस्तान in the north, and चीन in the दूर northeast.
Afghanistan रै महरूम an ancient फोकल point of the रेशा सड़क और human migration.
Archaeologists have मिला evidence of इंसान habitation इससे as far back as the Middle paleolithic.
शहरी सभ्यता may have begun in the area as early as 3,000 to 2,000 BCE.
बैठे at an महत्वपूर्ण geostrategic location that connects the Middle ईस्ट culture with सेंट्रल Asia और the Indian उपमहाद्वीप, the जमीन has been घर to विभिन्न peoples through the ages और witnessed अनेक सैन्य अभियान, notably by Alexander the ग्रेट, Genghis Khan, and in modern era Western शक्तियां.
The जमीन also served as a सोर्स from which the greco-bactrians, kushans, Hephthalites, Saffarids, ghaznavids, ghorids, khiljis, timurids, मुगलों, durranis, and अन्य have risen to form major empires.
The राजनैतिक history of the modern state of Afghanistan begins in 1709, when the Hotaki dynasty थी स्थापित in कांधार followed by अहमद शाह दुर्रानी 's वृद्धि to शक्ति in 1747.
In the late 19th सदी, Afghanistan became a बफ़र राज्य in the `` ग्रेट खेल `` between the अंग्रेजों और Russian empires.
following the 1919 anglo-afghan युद्ध, किंग Amanullah began a European style modernization of the country but was रोका by the ultra-conservatives.
During the ठंडा War, बाद the वापसी of the British इससे neighboring India in 1947, the United राज्य and the Soviet Union began spreading influences in अफगानिस्तान, जिससे led to a खूनी युद्ध between the US-backed mujahideen forces और the soviet-backed अफगान government in which over a लाख Afghans खोया उनके जीवनदान.
This was followed by the 1990s civil युद्ध, the वृद्धि and fall of the extremist तालिबान government और the 2001–present युद्ध.
In December 2001, the संयुक्त Nations Security Council authorized the सृष्टि of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय सुरक्षा सहायता फ़ोर्स ( ISAF ) to help maintain security in अफगानिस्तान और assist the Karzai प्रशासन.
तीन दशकों of युद्ध बना अफगानिस्तान one of the world 's most खतरनाक countries, including the largest producer of refugees और asylum seekers.
While the international community is rebuilding war-torn Afghanistan, आतंकवादी समूह ऐसे as the हक्कानी संजाल और hezbi Islami are actively शामिल in a nationwide तालिबान -led insurgency, which शामिल hundreds of assassinations and आत्महत्या हमले.
according to the संयुक्त Nations, the insurgents यहूद responsible for 80 % of civilian हताहत in 2011 और 2012.
the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध ( acw ), भी known as the युद्ध between the राज्य or simply the Civil युद्ध ( see नामकरण ), was a civil युद्ध लड़ा from 1861 to 1865 between the United राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और several Southern स्लेव राज्य कि declared उनके secession और formed the Confederate राज्य of अमेरिका ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` दक्षिण '' ).
The war had इसके origin in the issue of गुलामी, especially the एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into the western territories.
Foreign शक्तियां किया not intervene.
बाद four सालो of bloody कॉम्बैट that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना, the Confederacy collapsed, गुलामी थी abolished, और the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring नेशनल एकता and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential election, republicans, led by अब्राहम Lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United राज्य ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before उसके inauguration on March 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the confederacy.
outgoing लोकतांत्रिक President जेम्स बुकानन and the incoming republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address घोषित उसके administration होता not initiate civil war.
Eight बाकी स्लेव states continued to अस्वीकृत calls for secession.
confederate forces seized numerous संघीय forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy.
a Peace Conference विफल to ढूँढें a सुलह, और both पहलू prepared for war.
the Confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय देशों यहूद so dependent on `` King कपास `` कि they होता intervene ; none किया and none recognized the new confederate States of अमेरिका.
hostilities began on अप्रैल 12, 1861, when Confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट Sumter, a कुंजी फोर्ट आयोजित by संघ सैनिकों in South Carolina.
Lincoln पुकारा for each राज्य to provide troops to retake the फोर्ट ; नतीजतन, चार more slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing उनके total to eleven.
The संघ जल्द controlled the border states और established a naval blockade that अबोध the southern अर्थव्यवस्था.
The पूर्वी Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
the autumn 1862 confederate अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ state ) ended with confederate रिट्रीट at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading अंग्रेजों हस्तक्षेप.
lincoln issued the emancipation उदघोषणा, which बना ending slavery a युद्ध लक्ष्य.
To the वेस्ट, by summer 1862 the संघ destroyed the confederate नदी नेवी, तब much of their पश्चिमी सेना, and the संघ at Vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in two at the मिसिसिपी River.
In 1863, रॉबर्ट E. Lee 's Confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the बैटल of gettysburg.
पश्चिमी सफलताओं led to Ulysses S. Grant command of सब Union सेना in 1864.
In the Western थिएटर, विलियम T. Sherman drove east to कैप्चर अटलांटा और marched to the समुद्र, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the रास्ता.
The Union marshaled the संसाधन और जनशक्ति to attack the Confederacy from सब directions, and could afford to लड़ो battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the confederate capital.
the defending Confederate army विफल, अग्रणी to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at appomattox Court House on अप्रैल 9, 1865.
the American Civil War was one of the earliest सच्चा industrial wars.
Railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, and mass-produced हथियार यहूद employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, खानों, shipyards, banks, transportation and खाना supplies सब foreshadowed संसार युद्ध i.
it remains the deadliest युद्ध in American history, resulting in the मौतों of an estimated 750,000 सैनिको and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
इतिहासकार John huddleston estimates the death टोल at ten प्रतिशत of सब Northern males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा, and 30 प्रतिशत of all दक्षिणी श्वेत males aged 18–40.
लागत of goods sold ( cogs ) refer to the inventory लागत of those goods a कारोबार रै sold during a particular काल.
Costs हैं associated साथ particular goods using एक of several formulas, including विशिष्ट पहचान, first-in first-out ( fifo ), or average cost.
Costs include सब costs of खरीदें, costs of conversion और other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to उनके उपस्थित स्थान और कंडीशन.
Costs of goods made by the कारोबार शामिल सामग्री, मजदूर, and allocated overhead.
The costs of those goods not yet sold are deferred as लागत of inventory until the inventory is बेची or लिखा bas in मान.
Freak Lunchbox कैंडी store in Halifax, नोवा स्कोटिया
A confectionery स्टोर ( अधिक commonly referred to as a sweet shop in the United किंगडम, a candy स्टोर in the North America, or a lolly दूकान in ऑस्ट्रेलिया ) sells confectionery और is प्रायः targeted to children.
सबसे confectionery stores हैं filled साथ an assortment of मिठाई दूर larger than a पंसारी or convenience स्टोर could accommodate.
They प्रायः offer a selection of old fashioned treats, और मिठाई from different देशों.
बहुत प्रायः अपरिवर्तित in layout चूंकि उनके inception, confectioneries are ज्ञात लिये their वार्मिंग and उदासीन feel.
The village of pateley सेतु claims to have the oldest confectionery store in इंग्लैण्ड.
The oldest मीठी दूकान in इंग्लैण्ड, in the गाँव of pateley सेतु
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa, cay : Gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a राज्य स्तिथ in West दक्षिण Central United States.
ओक्लाहोमा is the 20th सबसे extensive and the 28th most populous of the 50 संयुक्त States.
the state 's नाम is derived इससे the choctaw शब्द okla and humma, अर्थ `` रेड लोगों '', और it is known informally by इसके nickname, the sooner State.
Formed by the संयोजन of ओक्लाहोमा territory और भारतीय Territory on November 16, 1907, ओक्लाहोमा थी the 46th state to enter the संघ.
Its निवासियों are known as oklahomans or, informally `` Okies '', और its पूंजी and largest city is ओक्लाहोमा नगर.
a प्रमुख निर्माता of natural गैस, oil, और कृषि, Oklahoma relies on an आर्थिक आधार of विमानन, energy, दूरसंचार, और जैवप्रौद्योगिकी.
It has one of the fastest growing economies in the स्वदेश, ranking among the top states in प्रति capita income growth और सकल घरेलू उत्पाद विकास.
Oklahoma नगर और Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's primary आर्थिक anchors, साथ nearly दो thirds of oklahomans जीना भीतर उनके महानगर statistical areas.
With small mountain ranges, prairie, mesas, और पूर्वी forests, सबसे of Oklahoma lies in the Great मैदान और the u.s. आंतरिक हाइलैंड्स —a प्रदेश especially prone to कठोर weather.
In जोड to having a व्यापकता of English, German, Scottish, Irish and Native अमरीकी ancestry, अधिक than 25 देशी अमरीकी भाषाएं are spoken in Oklahoma, दूसरी only to California.
ओक्लाहोमा is located on a संगम of तीन प्रमुख American cultural regions और historically served as a route लिये cattle ड्राइव, a destination लिये दक्षिणी settlers, and a government-sanctioned territory लिये देशी Americans.
stacked और खड़ा car tires
a टायर ( or टायर ) is a ring-shaped covering कि fits around a व्हील 's रिम to protect it and enable better गाडी performance.
सबसे tires, such as those for automobiles and साइकिल, provide कर्षण between the गाडी और the road while providing a लचीली cushion that absorbs shock.
The सामग्री of आधुनिक pneumatic टायर are synthetic रबर, प्राकृतिक rubber, कपड़ा और wire, along साथ कार्बन ब्लैक और अन्य रासायनिक यौगिकों.
वे consist of a tread और a body.
The tread provides कर्षण जबकि the देह provides containment लिये a मात्रा of संपीडित एयर.
पहले रबर थी developed, the पहला संस्करण of टायर यहूद बस bands of मेटल that fitted around लकड़ी wheels to prevent पहनें and tear.
Early रबर tires यहूद solid ( not pneumatic ).
आज, the बहुमत of टायर हैं pneumatic inflatable structures, comprising a doughnut-shaped body of cords and wires encased in रबर और generally filled with compressed air to रूप an inflatable cushion.
Pneumatic tires are used on many types of vehicles, सहित cars, bicycles, मोटरसाइकिल, trucks, earthmovers, and aircraft.
मेटल टायर हैं स्टिल प्रयुक्त on इंजनों and railcars, और ठोस rubber ( or other पॉलिमर ) tires are still used in विभिन्न non-automotive applications, such as कुछ casters, कार्ट, lawnmowers, and wheelbarrows.
dr. जोसेफ Warren ( June 11, 1741 – June 17, 1775 ) was an American डॉक्टर who played a leading भूमिका in American Patriot organizations in Boston in जल्दी दिनों of the अमरीकी Revolution, eventually सेवारत as president of the क्रांतिकारी मैसाचुसेट्स प्रांतीय कॉंग्रेस.
Warren आयोजिक Paul Revere and William dawes on अप्रैल 18, 1775, to छोड़ बोस्टन and spread the सचेतक that the अंग्रेजों garrison in Boston थी सेटिंग आउट to raid the कस्बा of concord और गिरफ़्तार विद्रोही नेताओ जॉन hancock and सैमुएल Adams.
Warren participated in the अगला day 's लड़ाइयों of lexington and concord, which are commonly considered to be the opening engagements of the American क्रांतिकारी War.
Warren था महरूम commissioned a प्रमुख सामान्य in the उपनिवेश 's मिलिशिया shortly पहले the June 17, 1775 बैटल of बंकर Hill.
Rather than exercising उसके रैंक, Warren परोसा in the बैटल as a निजी soldier, and was killed in combat when अंग्रेजों सैनिकों stormed the redoubt atop Breed 's हिल.
उसके death, immortalized in जॉन trumbull 's painting, The Death of सामान्य वारेन at the बैटल of बंकर 's हिल, जून 17, 1775, जस्ती the विद्रोही शक्तियां, and he रै महरूम स्मरणीय in many प्लेस names in the United राज्य.
stm चित्र of self-assembled supramolecular जंजीरों of the organic semiconductor Quinacridone on ग्रेफाइट.
an सशुल्क सेमीकंडक्टर is an organic सामग्री with semiconductor गुण, कि is, साथ an विद्युत conductivity between that of insulators और कि of metals.
Single अणुओं, छोटी कड़ी ( oligomers ) और organic polymers can be semiconductive.
Semiconducting small molecules ( aromatic hydrocarbons ) include the polycyclic aromatic compounds pentacene, anthracene, and rubrene.
polymeric सशुल्क semiconductors शामिल बहु ( 3-hexylthiophene ), बहु ( p-phenylene vinylene ), as खूब as polyacetylene and its derivatives.
There are दो major अतिव्यापी वर्ग of सशुल्क semiconductors.
These हैं organic charge-transfer complexes and विभिन्न linear-backbone conductive polymers derived इससे polyacetylene.
रैखिक रीढ़ सशुल्क semiconductors include polyacetylene itself और its डेरिवेटिव polypyrrole, और polyaniline.
at least locally, charge-transfer देवालय often प्रदर्शनी समान conduction mechanisms to अकार्बनिक semiconductors.
ऐसे mechanisms उठता from the presence of छेद and electron conduction layers separated by a बैंड gap.
जबकि ऐसे क्लासिक mechanisms हैं important locally, as साथ अकार्बनिक amorphous semiconductors, tunnelling, स्थानीयकृत states, गतिशीलता gaps, और phonon -assisted hopping also significantly contribute to conduction, particularly in polyacetylenes.
Like अकार्बनिक semiconductors, organic semiconductors can be doped.
Organic semiconductors susceptible to doping ऐसे as polyaniline ( Ormecon ) और are also ज्ञात as सशुल्क metals.
Typical वर्तमान carriers in सशुल्क semiconductors हैं छेद और electrons in π-bonds.
लगभग सब सशुल्क solids are insulators.
लकिन जब their constituent अणुओं have π-conjugate systems, electrons can move via π-electron cloud overlaps, especially by hopping, tunnelling और सम्बन्धित mechanisms.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and phthalocyanine salt crystals हैं उदाहरण of इस प्रकार of सशुल्क semiconductor.
मुख्यतः due to कम गतिशीलता, भी unpaired electrons may be stable in charge-transfer complexes.
Such unpaired electrons can function as वर्तमान carriers.
This प्रकार of सेमीकंडक्टर is भी प्राप्त by pairing an electron दाता अणु with an electron acceptor अणु.
मादा स्खलन is the expulsion of fluid by इंसान females from the paraurethral ducts through and around the female urethra दौरान or before an orgasm.
it is भी ज्ञात colloquially as gushing or squirting, हालांकि these हैं considered to be different phenomena in कुछ शोध publications.
The सटीक सोर्स और प्रकृति of the fluid continue to be a topic of debate among medical पेशेवर, which is भी सम्बन्धित to संदेह over the existence of the G-Spot.
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is an international संघ football competition contested by the वरिष्ठ महिलाओं 's national टीमों of the सदस्यों of fédération internationale de फ़ुटबॉल Association ( फीफा ), the sport 's global शासी body.
The चैंपियनशिप has महरूम awarded प्रत्येक चार सालो चूंकि the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1991.
जापानी won the 2011 tournament in a दंड shootout.
the वर्तमान स्वरूप of the टूर्नामेंट involves 16 टीमों स्पर्धा लिये the शीर्षक at venues within the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a काल of परिचय तीन सप्ताह ; – इस phase is often पुकारा the World Cup फाइनल.
a qualification phase, which फिलहाल takes place over the preceding तीन years, is प्रयुक्त to determine which teams qualify लिये the tournament together with the मेजबान nation ( s ).
the फीफा महिलाओं 's संसार Cup is पहचाना as the most महत्वपूर्ण International competition in women 's फ़ुटबॉल and is निभाई amongst women 's national फ़ुटबॉल टीमों of the member states of FIFA, the खेल 's वैश्विक governing body.
the first महिलाओं 's World Cup tournament, नामित the Women 's संसार चैंपियनशिप, थी आयोजित in 1991, sixty-one सालो after the men 's पहला FIFA संसार Cup tournament in 1930.
the six संसार कप tournaments have been won by four different national टीमों.
The next World कप होगा be hosted by Canada in 2015.
scorpions is a यंग वयस्क अनोखा written by वाल्टर डीन Myers, first प्रकाशित in the United राज्य by हार्पर & पंक्ति on June 20, 1988.
सामने page of a 17th century यहूदी Bible by जोसेफ athias, now at Beth Hatefutsoth, इसराईल
'Son of man ' is the translation of विभिन्न Hebrew and यूनानी phrases used in both the यहूदी बाइबल and the New Testament.
it रै विविध meanings, ranging इससे a normal human होने to a prophesied अनन्त, दैवी ruler.
The Hebrew अभिव्यक्ति `` son of man '' ( בן–אדם i.e. ben-'adam ) appears one सौ and सात टाइम्स in the यहूदी बाइबल.
इस is the most आम Hebrew construction लिये the एकवचन लकिन is used mostly in Ezekiel ( 93 टाइम्स ) और 14 times elsewhere.
In thirty दो मामले the phrase appears in इंटरमीडिएट बहुवचन रूप `` बेटे of मेन '', i.e. human beings.
As generally interpreted by Jews, it denotes humankind generally.
In the koine यूनानी of the नई वसीयत, `` the son of man '' is invariably प्रयुक्त as `` ὁ υἱὸς τοὺ ἀνθρώπου '' with a definite आलेख.
The use of the definite article in `` the बेटे of man '' in the ईसाई gospels is अनोखा, और before its use वहीँ, no records of its use in any of the surviving Greek documents of प्राचीनता exist.
geza Vermes has stated that `` the बेटे of man '' in the Christian gospels is unrelated to यहूदी बाइबल usages.
In Christian usage, नापसंद the Son of परमेश्वर शीर्षक, which रै been an अनिवार्य तत्व of Christian creeds since the अपोस्टोलिक age, the उदघोषणा of `` यीशु as the बेटे of man '' has never महरूम an आलेख of आस्था in christianity.
The निर्वचन of the use of `` the Son of man '' in the नई Testament has remained challenging and after 150 years of बहस no consensus on the समस्या रै emerged among scholars.
निपुण of foxhounds leads the फ़ील्ड from powderham Castle in Devon, इंग्लैण्ड, with the hounds in सामने.
Fox शिकार is an कार्यकलाप involving the ट्रैकिंग, chase, और sometimes killing of a फॉक्स, traditionally a रेड fox, by प्रशिक्षित foxhounds or other सैंट hounds, और a समूह of निहत्थे अनुसरणकर्ता led by a master of foxhounds, जो follow the hounds on foot or on horseback.
Fox शिकार originated in the form practised until recently in the United किंगडम in the 16th सदी, but is practised all over the world, सहित in Australia, Canada, France, आयरलैंड, इटली और the संयुक्त राज्य.
in Australia, the पद भी refers to the शिकार of foxes with firearms समान to spotlighting or deer शिकार.
In much of the संसार शिकार in general is समझा to relate to any game animals or हथियार ( e.g., deer शिकार with धनुष and तीर ) ; in ब्रिटेन and Ireland, `` hunting '' बगैर योग्यता implies fox शिकार ( or अन्य forms of शिकार साथ hounds- beagling, स्टैग शिकार, mink शिकार, खीचें शिकार or शिकार the साफ boot ) as वर्णित यहाँ.
the sport is controversial, विशेषकर in the UK, जहाँ it was बैन in स्कॉटलैंड in 2002, and in England and Wales in November 2004 ( law enforced इससे February 2005 ), though shooting foxes as vermin remained विधिक.
Proponents of fox hunting view it as an important भाग of ग्रामीण culture और उपयोगी लिये reasons of संरक्षण और pest control, जबकि opponents argue कि it is बेदर्द and unnecessary.
Tobacco विज्ञापन is the advertising of तम्बाकू उत्पाद or उपयोग ( typically cigarette smoking ) by the तम्बाकू industry through a किस्में of media including sponsorship, विशेषकर of sporting events.
It is अभी एक of the सबसे अत्यधिक regulated फ़ॉर्म of विपणन.
कुछ or सब फ़ॉर्म of tobacco विज्ञापन are बैन in अनेक देशों.
Bally Technologies, Inc. is a manufacturer of स्लॉट machines और other gaming technology based in Las वेगास, नेवाडा.
The company थी founded in 1968 as Advanced पेटेंट प्रौद्योगिकी.
It आखिरकार बदला इसके name to Alliance गेमिंग और acquired, in 1996, Bally Gaming International, a पूर्व division of Bally Manufacturing.
in 2006, the संपूर्ण कम्पनी adopted the बल्ली name, a ट्रेडमार्क that originated in 1932 by the बल्ली निर्माण निगम.
gustave doré 's engravings illustrated the दैवी कॉमेडी ( 1861–1868 ) ; यहाँ, Dante is lost in canto 1 of the inferno.
inferno ( इतालवी for `` नरक `` ) is the पहला भाग of दांते Alighieri 's 14th-century epic कविता Divine Comedy.
It is followed by Purgatorio and Paradiso.
it is an allegory telling of the journey of दांते through नरक, guided by the रोमन कवि वर्जिल.
in the कविता, नरक is depicted as nine circles of suffering स्तिथ within the धरती.
Allegorically, the Divine कॉमेडी represents the journey of the आत्मा towards God, साथ the inferno describing the recognition and rejection of sin.
स्मरनॉफ is a ब्रांड of वोदका स्वामित्व और produced by the British company Diageo.
the स्मरनॉफ brand began साथ a vodka distillery संस्थापित in मास्को by pyotr arsenievich Smirnov ( 1831–1898 ).
it is अभी वितरित in 130 देशों.
it is उत्पादित in several देशों सहित इण्डिया, Ireland, Italy, the संयुक्त Kingdom और the संयुक्त राज्य.
Smirnoff products शामिल वोदका, flavoured vodka, और malt beverages.
In March 2006, Diageo North अमेरिका claimed कि Smirnoff vodka was the best-selling distilled स्पिरिट brand in the world.
Big भूरा ( foaled April 10, 2005 in Kentucky ) is a retired चैंपियन अमरीकी Thoroughbred racehorse and विजेता of the 2008 Kentucky डर्बी and 2008 preakness Stakes.
करवाया by dr. गेरी B. नैप 's Monticule खेतो in Lexington, Kentucky, he won his पहला पाँच race starts.
he was sired by Grade iii विजेता Boundary, a बेटे of उत्तर American Champion sire Danzig, a बेटे of Northern Dancer.
बिग भूरा 's बांध थी Mien, also a पोती of उत्तरी Dancer through her sire, nureyev.
The Serenity दुआ is the आम नाम for an originally बेनाम prayer by the American theologian Reinhold Niebuhr ( 1892–1971 ).
It has been adopted by Alcoholics Anonymous and अन्य twelve-step programs.
The best-known रूप is : परमेश्वर, ग्रान्ट me the serenity to accept the things I can not change,
The courage to change the बाते i can,
और अक्ल to जान the अंतर.
the घोषणा and Resolves of the First महाद्वीपीय Congress ( also known as the घोषणा of Colonial अधिकारों, or the घोषणा of अधिकारों ), थी a बयान अपनाया by the First महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस on अक्तूबर 14, 1774, in जवाब to the असहनीय Acts passed by the अंग्रेजों पार्लियामेंट.
the Declaration outlined colonial objections to the Intolerable Acts, listed a colonial विधेयक of अधिकारों, and provided a detailed सूची of grievances.
it was समान to the Declaration of अधिकारों और Grievances, passed by the Stamp अधिनियम कॉंग्रेस a दशक पहले.
The घोषणा concluded with an रूपरेखा of Congress 's plans : to enter into a boycott of अंग्रेजों व्यापार ( the Continental Association ) जबतक उनके grievances were redressed, to प्रकाशित पता to the people of Great Britain and अंग्रेजों America, और to send a याचिका to the किंग.
Pulse दबाव is the दबाव कि is लगा when feeling the pulse.
measured in millimeters of पारा ( mmhg ), the दबाव difference between the systolic और diastolic pressures is the दबाव change to create the पल्स, जिससे is the pulse दबाव.
if resting रक्त दबाव is ( systolic/diastolic ) 120/80 millimeters of पारा ( mmHg ), पल्स pressure is 40.
the Hills is a वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी which originally aired on एमटीवी इससे May 31, 2006 जबतक जुलाई 13, 2010.
The show उपयोग a वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न format, following the personal lives of अनेक यंग adults living in लॉस Angeles, California, लकिन tends towards a कथा format अधिक commonly मिला in scripted जाति ऐसे as साबुन operas.
the श्रेणी originally followed the निजी life of former Laguna बीच star Lauren Conrad और उसके मित्रों ' new जीवनदान in लॉस Angeles.
बाद पाँच सीज़न, Conrad बाएँ the series and थी replaced by another former लगुना Beach star, kristin cavallari, beginning in the दूसरी half of the पांचवां ऋतु.
The श्रेणी concluded at the end of the sixth ऋतु.
Entertainment साप्ताहिक ranked The Hills 82nd on their सूची of `` the 100 Best shows of the Last 25 Years, '' stating कि the series थी a `` नई क्लासिक. ''
AOL tv पुकारा it TV 's biggest Guilty ख़ुशी.
the श्रेणी premiered in अनुप्रयोग in the पतन of 2009 alongside लगुना Beach : the रियल Orange काउंटी.
in poker, ख़राब beat is a subjective term for a hand in which a खिलाड़ी with what appear to be strong cards nevertheless loses.
it सबसे often occurs where one player bets the clearly stronger hand और their प्रतिद्वन्दी makes a poor कॉल कि eventually `` हिट्स '' और विन्स.
There is no consensus among पोकर खिलाड़ी as to what exactly constitutes a bad ताल और प्रायः खिलाड़ी will असहमत about whether a particular hand was a bad beat.
The goldfish ( carassius auratus auratus ) is a freshwater fish in the family Cyprinidae of अनुक्रम Cypriniformes.
it थी एक of the earliest मछली to be domesticated, and is एक of the most commonly रखा aquarium fish.
A relatively छोटी member of the carp family ( which भी includes the koi carp और the crucian carp ), the goldfish is a domesticated version of a less-colorful carp ( Carassius auratus ) native to east एशिया.
it थी पहला domesticated in China more than a हजार सालो पहले, और अनेक distinct breeds have चूंकि महरूम विकसित.
Goldfish breeds vary greatly in आकार, देह आकार, fin configuration और coloration ( various combinations of श्वेत, पीला, नारंगी, रेड, भूरा, और black हैं known ).
uncooked Rouladen
rouladen ( or rinderroulade, एकवचन : roulade ) is a जर्मनी मांस roulade usually consisting of बेकन, onions, सरसों and pickles लपेटा in thinly sliced बीफ which is तब पकाया.
in some countries, the roulade is also ज्ञात as `` beef ज़ैतून ''.
Beef or वील is प्रयुक्त as मांस हालांकि कुछ खाना विद्वानों tend to believe that the original version थी probably venison or pork, और पोर्क is still popular in कुछ areas.
the बीफ rouladen as we जान उन्हें today have become लोकप्रिय over the last century.
The काटें is प्रायः topside बीफ or silverside since इस is the cheaper cut.
the more महंगी संस्करण would be the गोलाकार स्टीक, also ज्ञात as rump steak.
the मांस is काटें into large, thin slices.
the filling is a mixture of स्मोक्ड और cooked पोर्क पेट, कटा प्याज और chopped अचार ( gurken ) which is at टाइम्स varied by adding minced मांस, सॉसेज मांस, pine nuts और mustard.
The मिश्रण varies इससे region to प्रदेश.
Rouladen हैं traditionally served लिये डिनर.
रेड wine is often परोसा with इस डिश.
Typical eukaryotic cell.
सेल्यूलर श्वसन is the नियत of the metabolic reactions और प्रक्रियाओं कि लो प्लेस in the cells of जीवों to बदलें biochemical उर्जा from nutrients into एडीनोसिन ट्राइफॉस्फेट ( ATP ), और then release बर्बाद उत्पाद.
the प्रतिक्रियाएँ involved in श्वसन are catabolic reactions, जिससे break विशाल molecules into छोटी ones, releasing उर्जा in the process as कमजोर so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the उत्पाद.
श्वसन is एक of the कुंजी ways a कोशिका gains उपयोगी energy to ईंधन cellular कार्यकलाप.
Cellular respiration is considered an ऊष्माक्षेपी रेडॉक्स reaction.
the overall प्रतिक्रिया is टूटा into many smaller ones when it occurs in the body, most of जिससे are रेडॉक्स reactions themselves.
हालांकि technically, सेल्यूलर श्वसन is a combustion reaction, it clearly does नहीं resemble one when it occurs in a जीना cell.
This difference is because it occurs in अनेक पृथक कदम.
जबकि the overall reaction is a combustion प्रतिक्रिया, no single reaction that comprises it is a combustion reaction.
nutrients that हैं commonly प्रयुक्त by animal and संयंत्र cells in respiration include sugar, अमीनो acids और वसीय acids, and a common oxidizing एजेंट ( इलेक्ट्रॉन acceptor ) is आणविक ऑक्सीजन ( O2 ).
The energy stored in ATP ( इसके third phosphate group is weakly bonded to the rest of the अणु और is cheaply broken allowing stronger bonds to form, thereby transferring उर्जा for उपयोग by the cell ) can then be प्रयुक्त to ड्राइव processes requiring energy, including जैवसंश्लेषण, locomotion or transportation of molecules across cell membranes.
Countries by 2011 जीडीपी ( नाममात्र ) according to the CIA संसार Factbook.
इस article शामिल a list of countries in the world sorted by their सकल domestic product ( GDP ), the मार्केट मान of all फाइनल goods और services from a nation in a given year.
The जीडीपी डालर estimates presented यहाँ are calculated at market or सरकारी official exchange rates.
Several economies जिससे हैं not considered to be countries ( संसार, the EU, and कुछ dependent territories ) are included in the सूचियाँ because they appear in the sources.
ये economies हैं not ranked in the charts यहाँ, लकिन are listed जहाँ लागू.
the figures प्रस्तुत here do नहीं लो into account मतभेद in the cost of living in different countries, and the परिणाम can vary greatly इससे एक साल to another आधारित on fluctuations in the exchange rates of the country 's currency.
ऐसे fluctuations may बदलें a country 's ranking इससे एक साल to the next, भी हालांकि they often make छोटी or no अंतर to the standard of living of its population.
Therefore these आंकड़े should be used with सावधानी.
Some countries/regions may have नागरिकों जिससे हैं on औसत धनवान.
ये countries/regions could appear in इस सूची as having a छोटी जीडीपी.
This would be because the country/region सूचीबद्ध has a small population, and इसलिए छोटी कुल अर्थव्यवस्था ; the GDP is गणना as the population टाइम्स the wealth प्रति capita.
Comparisons of नेशनल wealth हैं also अक्सर बना on the आधार of purchasing power पैरिटी ( ppp ), to समायोजन for मतभेद in the लागत of जीना in different देशों.
( देखिए सूची of countries by जीडीपी ( ppp ) )
PPP largely removes the एक्सचेंज rate problem, but has इसके own drawbacks ; it does नहीं reflect the मान of economic आउटपुट in अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार, and it also requires more estimation than nominal GDP.
on the whole, PPP per capita figures are more narrowly spread than नाममात्र GDP per capita आंकड़े.
the पहला सूची शामिल data compiled by the United राष्ट्र आंकडे प्रभाग लिये 2011.
the second list largely शामिल आंकड़ा ( estimate ) compiled by the International मौद्रिक निधि for 2012.
the third list shows the World बैंको 's mostly 2011 estimates, और the fourth सूची includes mostly 2012 estimates इससे the सीआईए संसार Factbook.
Lapping is a machining process, in जिससे two surfaces are rubbed together साथ an अक्खड़ between them, by hand movement or by रास्ता of a यंत्र.
This can take दो फ़ॉर्म.
The first type of lapping ( traditionally पुकारा grinding ), typically involves rubbing a भंगुर सामग्री ऐसे as glass विरूद्ध a सतह ऐसे as iron or glass itself ( भी ज्ञात as the `` lap '' or grinding tool ) with an अक्खड़ ऐसे as एल्यूमिनियम ऑक्साइड, jeweller 's रूज, optician 's रूज, एमरी, silicon carbide, डायमंड, etc., in between them.
इस produces microscopic conchoidal fractures as the अक्खड़ रोल्स परिचय between the दो surfaces और removes material इससे both.
the other form of lapping involves a softer सामग्री ऐसे as pitch or a ceramic for the गोद, which is `` charged '' with the abrasive.
The गोद is तब used to cut a harder material—the workpiece.
the अक्खड़ embeds within the softer material which holds it और permits it to score across और cut the harder सामग्री.
Taken to a महीन सीमा, this will उपज a polished surface ऐसे as with a पॉलिशिंग cloth on an automobile, or a पॉलिशिंग cloth or polishing पिच upon glass or steel.
लिया to the ultimate सीमा, with the सहायता of सटीक interferometry and specialized polishing मशीने or skilled hand पॉलिशिंग, lensmakers can उपज surfaces कि हैं चपटा to बेहतर than 30 nanometers.
This is एक बीसवीं of the wavelength of light इससे the commonly प्रयुक्त 632.8 nm हीलियम नियॉन laser light source.
सतहों this flat can be molecularly bonded ( optically contacted ) by bringing उन्हें साथ अंतर्गत the right शर्तें.
( इस is not the वही as the wringing प्रभाव of Johansson blocks, although it is समान ).
The पद `` America 's Team '' is a popular nickname in the संयुक्त राज्य that refers to the डलास cowboys in the National Football लीग.
the उपनाम originated साथ the टोली 's 1978 हाइलाइट film, where the narrator opens साथ the following परिचय : The term is पहचाना and often प्रयुक्त by मीडिया outlets, सहित ईएसपीएन, Yahoo !, HBO Sports, और Sports illustrated.
my Babysitter 's a पिशाच ( फ्रेंच : ma gardienne est un पिशाच ) is a 2011 Canadian television श्रेणी, आधारित on the टेलीविज़न film of the वही name.
in कनाडा, the श्रेणी premiered in French on Télétoon on February 28, 2011, in English on teletoon on March 14, 2011, और on डिज़्नी चैनल in the संयुक्त राज्य on June 27, 2011.
The दिखाएँ थी created by भैस TV, creators of 6teen और Total Drama.
The दिखाएँ फ़ॉलो Ethan Morgan ( मैथ्यू Knight ), who, in the टेलीविज़न film, learns कि his babysitter सारा ( Vanessa Morgan ) is a vampire.
In the फिल्मी, he learns he is able to have visions and his best dost Benny वीयर ( atticus Mitchell ) is a spellmaster.
the श्रेणी follows the तीन as वे take on supernatural शक्तियां और have adventures, with occasional help from fellow vampires रोरी ( cameron Kennedy ) and एरिका ( केट Todd ), while dealing with the परेशानियों of regular ऊँची school life.
A दूसरी season was confirmed to start उत्पादन in सितंबर 2011 और it पहला premiered on डिज़्नी Channel on June 29, 2012, it premiered on teletoon सितंबर 6, 2012.
télétoon started featuring ऋतु 2 sneak-peak एपीसोड on October 28, 2012 and premiered it on January 10, 2013
Dodge b Series utility circa 1950, driven by अल्बर्ट namatjira
a पिकअप ट्रक or pick-up, प्रायः simply referred to as a पिकअप, is a लाइट motor गाडी साथ an open-top, पश्च कार्गो क्षेत्रफल ( bed ).
In उत्तर अमेरिका, the पद pickup is used लिये लाइट ट्रक with a lighter duty chassis और फैक्टरी निर्मित, एकीकृत bed, as खूब as for coupé यूटिलिटी vehicles, often based on a personal car chassis, लकिन also often on a special समर्पित chassi लिये such उपयोग.
Some देशों have उनके अपना terms similar to pickup, such as ute in Australia and नई Zealand, or bakkie in South Africa.
विशाल पिकअप ट्रक are somewhat विरल in Europe, where vans और लाइट lorries are commonly used for समान roles.
the President of the United राज्य of America ( POTUS ) is the सिर of state and head of government of the United States.
the president लीड the कार्यपालिका branch of the संघीय government और is the commander-in-chief of the संयुक्त राज्य Armed शक्तियां.
आलेख ii of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive शक्ति of the United राज्य in the अध्यक्ष and आरोप him साथ the निष्पादन of federal विधि, alongside the responsibility of appointing federal कार्यपालिका, राजनयिक, नियामक, और न्यायिक अधिकारियों, and concluding treaties with विदेशी powers, साथ the advice and सहमति of the सीनेट.
the president is further empowered to ग्रान्ट federal pardons और reprieves, और to convene and adjourn either or both houses of कॉंग्रेस under extraordinary हालातों.
Since the founding of the United राज्य, the शक्ति of the अध्यक्ष and the संघीय government have grown substantially और each modern अध्यक्ष, despite possessing no औपचारिक legislative शक्तियां परे signing or vetoing congressionally passed बिल्स, is largely responsible लिये dictating the विधान agenda of his पार्टी and the foreign and domestic policy of the United States.
The president is frequently described as the most powerful व्यक्ति in the world.
The president is indirectly निर्वाचित by the लोगों through the Electoral कॉलेज to a four-year पद, and is one of तभी दो nationally निर्वाचित संघीय अधिकारियों, the other being the वाइस अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य.
The twenty-second amendment, अपनाया in 1951, prohibits anyone इससे ever होने elected to the प्रेसिडेंसी for a तीसरा पूरा पद.
it भी prohibits a person इससे होने निर्वाचित to the presidency अधिक than एकबार if कि person previously था परोसा as अध्यक्ष, or एक्टिंग अध्यक्ष, for more than दो years of another person 's term as अध्यक्ष.
in all, 43 individuals have served 55 four-year terms.
on जनवरी 20, 2009, Barack Obama became the 44th और current अध्यक्ष.
on नवम्बर 6, 2012, he थी re-elected and is scheduled to serve जबतक जनवरी 20, 2017.
बोतलबंद mineral water
Bottled water is drinking water ( e.g., well जल, आसुत water, खनिज जल, or spring water ) packaged in प्लास्टिक or glass जल bottles.
Bottled जल may be carbonated or नहीं.
Sizes range इससे छोटी single serving बोतलों to विशाल carboys लिये water coolers.
मैप of the major rivers, झीलों, and टंकी in India
Map प्रर्दशित नदियाँ और बाढ़ prone areas in India
Rivers of इण्डिया खेल an महत्वपूर्ण role in the जीवनदान of the Indian लोगों.
The नदी systems provide irrigation, potable water, cheap परिवहन, electricity, और the livelihoods for a विशाल number of लोगों सब over the देश और to rural areas.
इस easily explains क्यों nearly all the प्रमुख शहरों of इण्डिया are स्तिथ by the बैंको of rivers.
the rivers भी have an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in हिन्दू mythology and हैं considered holy by सब हिन्दुओं in the country.
Seven प्रमुख नदियाँ along with their numerous tributaries मेक up the river system of India.
Most of the rivers pour उनके waters into the खाड़ी of Bengal ; however, some of the नदियाँ जिनकी पाठ्यक्रम take उन्हें through the western भाग of the country और towards the ईस्ट of the राज्य of himachal Pradesh empty into the arabian Sea.
Parts of Ladakh, उत्तरी parts of the aravlli दायरा and the arid भाग of the Thar Desert have अंतर्देशीय नाले.
Dr.Francis बुकानन surveyed the पाठ्यक्रम of the rivers of India along with उनके tributaries और branches in 1810-11 ad and प्रस्तुत a minute account of it.
The shifting of the पाठ्यक्रम और bed over the सदियां is very remarkable.
अनेक of the चैनल्स mentioned in that सर्वेक्षण have अभी become dead, dried or even विलुप्त.
All प्रमुख rivers of India originate from एक of the तीन प्रमुख watersheds :
the Himalaya and the Karakoram ranges
विंध्य और satpura सीमाएँ और chotanagpur plateau in सेंट्रल India
sahyadri or Western ghats in western India
The bretton वुड्स system of monetary management स्थापित the नियम लिये commercial and financial संबंध among the world 's major औद्योगिक states in the mid-20th century.
The Bretton वुड्स प्रणाली थी the first उदाहरण of a fully negotiated मौद्रिक order intended to govern monetary relations among independent nation-states.
Preparing to rebuild the अंतरराष्ट्रीय आर्थिक system as संसार War II was still raging, 730 delegates इससे all 44 Allied राष्ट्र gathered at the माउंट Washington होटल in bretton वुड्स, New हैम्पशायर, United राज्य, for the United राष्ट्र मौद्रिक और वित्तीय सम्मेलन.
The delegates deliberated दौरान 1–22 जुलाई 1944, और signed the Agreement on इसके फाइनल दिन.
Setting up a system of rules, institutions, and प्रक्रियाओं to regulate the international मौद्रिक प्रणाली, the planners at bretton वुड्स established the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मौद्रिक निधि ( IMF ) and the अंतरराष्ट्रीय बैंको लिये Reconstruction और विकास ( IBRD ), जिससे today is भाग of the संसार बैंको Group.
These संगठन became operational in 1945 बाद a sufficient क्रमांक of देशों था ratified the agreement.
The chief features of the bretton Woods system यहूद an दायित्व लिये each country to अपनाना a मौद्रिक नीति कि कायम the exchange rate by tying इसके currency to the u.S. dollar और the ability of the imf to bridge temporary imbalances of payments.
On 15 August 1971, the United राज्य unilaterally terminated convertibility of the us $ to सुनहरा.
इस brought the bretton Woods system to an समाप्त और saw the dollar become fiat currency.
इस action, referred to as the निक्सन शॉक, निर्मित the हालात in जिससे the United States dollar became a reserve currency प्रयुक्त by many states.
At the वही समय, many फिक्स्ड currencies ( such as GBP, for example ), भी became free floating.
Ducati मोटर पकड़कर s.p.A. is an Italian company that designs और manufactures motorcycles.
headquartered in Bologna, इटली, Ducati is स्वामित्व by Audi through इसके Italian subsidiary लेम्बोर्गिनी.
A क्रेडिट स्कोर is a numerical expression based on a statistical analysis of a person 's क्रेडिट फाइलें, to represent the creditworthiness of कि व्यक्ति.
A क्रेडिट score is primarily based on credit रपट सूचना typically sourced इससे क्रेडिट bureaus.
lenders, ऐसे as banks and क्रेडिट कार्ड companies, use क्रेडिट स्कोर to evaluate the संभावित risk posed by lending money to उपभोक्ता and to mitigate नुकसान due to ख़राब debt.
Lenders उपयोग credit स्कोर to determine जो qualifies लिये a ऋण, at what interest rate, and कया क्रेडिट limits.
lenders also उपयोग क्रेडिट scores to determine which ग्राहक हैं संभावित to लाओ in the सबसे revenue.
the use of credit or पहचान स्कोरिंग prior to authorizing अभिगम or granting क्रेडिट is an implementation of a trusted प्रणाली.
क्रेडिट scoring is not limited to banks.
अन्य organizations, ऐसे as मोबाईल फोन कंपनियाँ, insurance कंपनियाँ, जमींदार, and सरकारी विभाग employ the वही techniques.
Credit स्कोरिंग also रै a lot of ओवरलैप साथ आंकड़ा खनन, which उपयोग अनेक similar तकनीकों.
These techniques combine thousands of factors but they are more or less similar or the same.
the सात SI base units और the interdependency of their definitions : for उदाहरण, to निकालें the definition of the metre इससे the गति of light, the definition of the second must be known जबकि the ampere और candela हैं both निर्भर on the परिभाषा of उर्जा जिससे in फेरे is defined in terms of लंबाई, mass and समय.
the अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रणाली of Units ( SI ) defines सात इकाई of measure as a basic set इससे जिससे सब अन्य SI इकाई हैं derived.
ये si आधार इकाई and उनके physical quantities are:
मीटर लिये लंबाई ( US English : मीटर )
kilogram लिये mass ( नोट : not the ग्राम )
दूसरी for समय
ampere लिये इलेक्ट्रिक current
kelvin for तापमान
candela for luminous तीव्रता
mole for the amount of substance.
the si आधार quantities form a नियत of mutually independent आयाम as required by dimensional analysis commonly employed in विज्ञान और प्रौद्योगिकी.
However, in a given realization of ये units वे may well be interdependent, i.e. defined in शर्तें of प्रत्येक अन्य.
the names of SI इकाई हैं written in लोअरकेस वर्ण ( the 'degree Celsius ' meets इस नियम, as 'degree ' is the ईकाई, and 'celsius ' is a modifier ).
the प्रतीकों of इकाई are written in lowercase ( e.g. metre रै the symbol m ), except that symbols लिये इकाई named बाद व्यक्तियों are लिखा साथ an आरंभिक capital अक्षर ( e.g., the हर्ट्ज़ रै the अपरकेस प्रतीक Hz ).
अनेक other इकाई, such as the litre ( us अंग्रेज़ी : लीनियर ), हैं formally not part of the si, but हैं accepted लिये उपयोग साथ si.
Monument canyon
कोलोराडो नेशनल स्मारक ( locally referred to as the Monument ) is a भाग of the नेशनल पार्क सेवा near the नगर of ग्रैंड Junction, Colorado.
spectacular canyons cut deep into sandstone and even granite–gneiss–schist rock formations, in some क्षेत्रों.
This is an क्षेत्रफल of desert land high on the Colorado पठार, with pinion और juniper forests on the plateau.
The park hosts a चौड़ी दायरा of wildlife, सहित red-tailed hawks और golden eagles, ravens, jays, desert bighorn शीप, और coyotes.
क्रियाएँ include hiking, horseback सवारी, सड़क bicycling, और scenic drives ; a visitor बीच on the वेस्ट पक्ष contains a natural history museum और gift shop.
वहीँ are भव्य दृश्य from trails and the Rim Rock ड्राइव, which winds along the plateau.
आसपास are the किताब cliffs, and the largest flat-topped mountain in the world, the ग्रैंड mesa.
Its feature आकर्षण is Monument canyon, which रनों the चौडाई of the park, और शामिल rock formations such as Independence Monument, the चुंबन युगल, और कोक चूल्हों.
The monument शामिल 20,500 एकड़ ( 32 वर्गाकार miles ), much of जिससे रै been recommended to कॉंग्रेस for designation as wilderness.
बाएँ to सही : Utility Uniform, ब्लू Dress वर्दी, Service Uniform, and Evening पोशाक वर्दी
the वर्दी of the United राज्य समुद्री corps serve to फर्क Marines इससे सदस्यों of अन्य services.
among current uniforms in the United States हथियारबंद शक्तियां, the Marines ' uniforms have been in service the longest.
the समुद्री Dress ब्लू वर्दी रै, साथ few परिवर्तन, been worn in essentially its current रूप चूंकि the 19th सदी.
उत्तर American टेलीफोन क्षेत्रफल codes 419 and 567 serve the northwest quadrant of the U.S. राज्य of Ohio.
The largest city परोसा by these area कोड is टोलेडो ( और इसके suburbs of Holland, Maumee, northwood, ऑरेगॉन, Ottawa पहाड़ियाँ, Perrysburg, Rossford, Sylvania, swanton, waterville, and Whitehouse ).
अन्य cities परोसा by these क्षेत्रफल codes include Ada, ashland, Bellevue, Bluffton, Bowling Green, ब्रायन, Bucyrus, Celina, क्लाइड, Crestline, defiance, Delphos, एडिसन, erastus, Findlay, fostoria, Fremont, Galion, kenton, लीमा, मैन्सफील्ड, माउंट gilead, Napoleon, Norwalk, ओक Harbor, बंदरगाहों क्लिंटन, Sandusky, Shelby, St. Marys, Tiffin, Upper sandusky, Van wert, wapakoneta, Wauseon, Willard.
अन्य क्षेत्रों served include the झील Erie Islands उत्तर of Port Clinton and west of sandusky.
The प्रमुख क्षेत्रफल code, 419, was created as one of the original क्षेत्रफल codes in अक्तूबर 1947 ; the ओवरले क्षेत्रफल code 567 was निर्मित on जनवरी 1, 2002.
despite the presence of टोलेडो, the state 's fourth-largest city, 419 was the last of ओहियो 's original चार area codes to have महरूम विभाजित or overlaid.
Mickey लेरॉय gilley ( born March 9, 1936 ) is an American देश म्यूज़िक सिंगर और musician.
हालांकि he प्रारंभ आउट गायन straight-up देश and पश्चिमी सामग्री in the 1970s, he moved towards a more pop -friendly ध्वनि in the 1980s, bringing him further कामयाबी on not just the देश चार्ट, लकिन the पॉप charts as well.
Among his biggest हिट्स are `` Room पूरा of गुलाब, '' `` Do n't the लड़कियों सब मिलेंगी Prettier at closing समय, '' and the remake of the आत्मा hit `` स्टैंड by Me ``.
he is भी the cousin of Jerry ली Lewis, कार्ल mcvoy, Jim Gilley and jimmy swaggart.
according to the Federal विमानन Administration, gilley is a licensed pilot, जो holds an यंत्र दरजा साथ commercial pilot privileges for multi-engine airplanes, as well as private pilot privileges for सिंगल engine वायुयान.
the सितंबर 11 हमले ( भी referred to as सितंबर 11, सितंबर 11th, or 9/11 ) were a series of four coordinated terrorist हमले शुभारम्भ by the Islamic terrorist group al-qaeda upon the संयुक्त राज्य in New York नगर and the Washington, D.C. क्षेत्रफल on September 11, 2001.
चार यात्री airliners यहूद hijacked by 19 al-Qaeda terrorists so वे could be flown into इमारतें in आत्महत्या attacks.
Two of those planes, American Airlines Flight 11 and संयुक्त Airlines उड़ान 175, were crashed into the उत्तर और दक्षिण मीनारें, respectively, of the संसार Trade बीच complex in नई यॉर्क नगर.
Within two घंटों, दोनो towers collapsed साथ मलबा और the resulting फ़ायर causing आंशिक or पूरा पतन of all अन्य buildings in the WTC जटिल, as well as प्रमुख क्षति to टेन other large surrounding structures.
a third plane, American Airlines Flight 77, थी crashed into the Pentagon ( the headquarters of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of रक्षा ), अग्रणी to a आंशिक पतन in its western side.
the चौथी plane, United एयरलाइंस Flight 93, थी targeted at the संयुक्त States कैपिटल in Washington, d.C., but crashed into a field near Shanksville, पेन्सिलवेनिया, after its passengers आजमाया to overcome the hijackers.
In कुल, almost 3,000 people died in the attacks, including the 227 civilians and 19 hijackers सवार the चार planes.
Suspicion quickly गिरी on al-Qaeda.
हालांकि the group 's नेता, ओसामा bin लादेन, initially denied any भागीदारी, in 2004 he claimed responsibility लिये the attacks.
al-qaeda और bin Laden cited U.S. support of इसराईल, the presence of U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia, और प्रतिबंधों विरूद्ध इराकी as motives for the हमले.
the संयुक्त States responded to the हमले by शुभारंभ the युद्ध on आतंक and invading Afghanistan to depose the तालिबान, which था harbored al-Qaeda.
Many countries strengthened उनके anti-terrorism legislation और expanded law enforcement powers.
having evaded कैप्चर for years, bin लादेन थी स्तिथ और killed by u.S. शक्तियां in May 2011.
the destruction of the जुड़वा Towers and अन्य गुण caused serious damage to the economy of निम्नतर मैनहटन and had a significant प्रभाव on global markets.
क्लीनअप of the World Trade Center site was completed in may 2002, और the Pentagon was repaired भीतर a year.
Numerous memorials have महरूम constructed, सहित the National September 11 Memorial & Museum in नई York, the प्रस्तुतीकरण Memorial, और the Flight 93 नेशनल Memorial in Pennsylvania.
After a lengthy विलंब, the एक संसार Trade बीच is expected to be समाप्त at Ground Zero in New York नगर in 2013.
ढूंढना nemo is a 2003 अमरीकी computer-animated comedy-drama adventure film written and निर्देशित by Andrew Stanton, released by Walt डिज़्नी Pictures, और the पांचवां film produced by पिक्चर्स एनिमेशन studios.
It tells the स्टोरी of the over-protective clownfish नामित marlin ( Albert Brooks ) who, साथ with a राजसी तंग named Dory ( एलेन DeGeneres ), खोज for his abducted son Nemo ( Alexander gould ) सब the रास्ता to Sydney harbour.
Along the way, Marlin learns to लो risks and let nemo लो परवाह of खुद.
it is Pixar 's पहला film to be released in cinemas in the उत्तरी hemisphere summer.
The फिल्मी was re-released लिये the first समय in 3D on September 14, 2012, और it थी released on Blu-ray on December 4, 2012.
A sequel, Finding Dory, is फिलहाल in विकास, नियत to be released on नवम्बर 25, 2015.
the film प्राप्त universal critical acclaim and जीती the अकादमी Award लिये Best Animated Feature, और थी मनोनीत in three अधिक categories सहित बेहतरीन असली पटकथा.
it was the second highest-grossing फिल्मी of 2003, कमाई a total of $ 921 million worldwide.
Finding nemo is भी the best-selling dvd of सब समय, साथ over 40 लाख नक़ल बेची as of 2006, and थी the highest-grossing G-rated फिल्मी of सब time before पिक्चर्स 's अपना Toy स्टोरी 3 overtook it.
It is भी the 23rd highest-grossing film of all time, as well as the 3rd highest-grossing एनिमेटेड film.
In 2008, the अमरीकी फिल्मी Institute named it the tenth महानतम एनिमेटेड फिल्मी कभी made during their शीर्ष 10.
The sixth ऋतु of America 's Best Dance क्रू, भी ज्ञात as America 's Best नृत्य क्रू : ऋतु of the सुपरस्टार, premiered on April 7, 2011 and concluded on जून 5, 2011.
Auditions यहूद आयोजित in four cities इससे जनवरी 21 through February 5 : Chicago, Houston, नई यॉर्क, और Los Angeles.
This ऋतु takes a different route from past सीज़न.
The क्रू जरूर perform to the music of one विशिष्ट artist each week, सहित रिहाना, लील वेन, and अन्य लोकप्रिय stars.
इस ऋतु also सुविधाएँ खास अतिथि दिखावे by various music हस्तियाँ including Justin बीबर, The Black eyed मटर, Katy Perry, kesha, Nicki Minaj, और kanye वेस्ट.
डोमिनिक `` D-Trix '' Sandoval, a former member of क्वेस्ट Crew, the विजेता of the तीसरा ऋतु of America 's बेहतरीन Dance Crew, joins returning न्यायाधीशों Lil मामा and JC Chasez as the newest न्यायधीश.
in the season finale, i aM me थी घोषित the winner of Season 6 और प्राप्त the $ 100,000 ( USD ) prize.
In the संयुक्त राज्य, Social सुरक्षा refers to the Old-Age, survivors, और विकलांगता बीमे ( oasdi ) संघीय program.
the असली Social सुरक्षा Act ( 1935 ) और the current संस्करण of the अधिनियम, as amended, encompass several social welfare and social insurance कार्यक्रम.
सोशल सुरक्षा is primarily funded through dedicated payroll taxes पुकारा Federal बीमे योगदान अधिनियम tax ( FICA ).
Tax deposits are formally entrusted to the Federal old-age and survivors बीमे विश्वास Fund, the संघीय Disability बीमे विश्वास Fund, the Federal Hospital Insurance विश्वास निधि, or the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance विश्वास Fund which comprise the Social सुरक्षा विश्वास Fund.
Upward redistribution of आय is responsible लिये परिचय 43 % of the प्रक्षिप्त सोशल सुरक्षा shortfall over the अगला 75 सालो.
According to अर्थशास्त्री मार्टिन feldstein, the combined बिता लिये सब social insurance कार्यक्रम in 2003 गठित 37 % of सरकारी expenditure and 7 % of the gross घरेलू उत्पाद.
सोशल Security is फिलहाल अनुमानित to रखना roughly 40 percent of सब अमेरिकी आयु 65 or पुरानी आउट of गरीबी.
The सोशल Security Administration is headquartered in woodlawn, Maryland, बस west of Baltimore.
the दारू by volume shown on a बोतल of absinthe.
दारू by volume ( abbreviated as ABV, abv, or alc/vol ) is a standard माप of how much दारू ( ethanol ) is contained in an alcoholic beverage ( expressed as a percentage of total volume ).
The ABV मानक is used worldwide.
in कुछ देशों, alcohol by आवाज़ is referred to as डिग्री Gay-Lussac ( after the French chemist जोसेफ लुई gay-lussac ).
Laurel Hollow is a village in the कस्बा of सीप खाड़ी in nassau काउंटी, नई यॉर्क in the United राज्य.
the जनसांख्यिकी was 1,952 at the 2010 census.
चार्ल्स जॉन huffam डिकेंस ( ; 7 फ़रवरी 1812 – 9 जून 1870 ) थी an English writer और social critic.
he created कुछ of the संसार 's most यादगार fictional characters और is generally regarded as the महानतम novelist of the Victorian काल.
दौरान his life, his works enjoyed unprecedented fame, and by the twentieth सदी his साहित्यिक प्रतिभाशाली was broadly acknowledged by आलोचकों और विद्वानों.
उसके novels और छोटी कहानियां continue to be widely लोकप्रिय.
born in Portsmouth, England, Dickens left school to work in a फैक्टरी बाद उसके पिता थी thrown into debtors ' थाना.
Although he था little औपचारिक शिक्षा, his जल्दी impoverishment drove उसे to succeed.
over his करियर he edited a weekly जर्नल for 20 सालो, लिखा 15 novels, 5 novellas and hundreds of छोटी कहानियां and non-fiction आलेख, lectured और performed extensively, थी an indefatigable अक्षर लेखक, और campaigned vigorously लिये children 's rights, education, और other सोशल reforms.
डिकेंस sprang to कीर्ति साथ the 1836 serial प्रकाशन of The Pickwick papers.
भीतर a few सालो he had become an international literary हस्ती, प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके humour, satire, और keen अवलोकन of character and समाज.
उसके novels, सबसे published in मासिक or weekly किश्तों, pioneered the सीरियल प्रकाशन of narrative fiction, which became the dominant विक्टोरियन विधि for अनोखा प्रकाशन.
the instalment स्वरूप अनुमत डिकेंस to evaluate his audience 's reaction, और he often परिवर्धित उसके plot और character विकास based on ऐसे प्रतिक्रिया.
लिये उदाहरण, when his wife 's chiropodist expressed तकलीफ at the way मिस mowcher in David कॉपरफील्ड लगा to reflect her disabilities, डिकेंस गई on to improve the अक्षर with धनात्मक lineaments.
fagin in ओलिवर Twist apparently mirrors the famous बाड़ ikey Solomon ; उसके कैरीकेचर of leigh Hunt in the फिगर of mr Skimpole in bleak House was likewise toned down on सलाह from some of उसके मित्रों, as they read episodes.
in the वही अनोखा, both लॉरेंस Boythorne और मूनी the beadle are drawn from रियल जीवन – boythorne from Walter जंगली landor और Mooney from 'Looney ', a beadle at salisbury Square.
His plots यहूद carefully constructed, और डिकेंस प्रायः wove in elements from topical events into उसके narratives.
Masses of the अनपढ़ ग़रीब chipped in ha'pennies to have प्रत्येक नई monthly एपीसोड पढ़ा to them, खोलने up and inspiring a नई class of पाठक.
डिकेंस was regarded as the literary colossus of his आयु.
उसके 1843 novella, A Christmas कैरोल, is एक of the सबसे influential works कभी लिखा, and it remains लोकप्रिय और continues to inspire adaptations in every कलाकारी genre.
His रचनात्मक genius has महरूम praised by fellow writers—from leo Tolstoy to G. K. Chesterton और George Orwell —for its यथार्थवाद, comedy, prose स्टाइल, अद्वितीय characterisations, और सोशल criticism.
On the other हाथ ऑस्कर वाइल्ड, Henry James और वर्जिनिया woolf complained of a कमी of psychological depth, loose writing, and a रग of saccharine sentimentalism.
मार्टिन Luther King and other civil rights leaders in front of the प्रतिमा of Abraham lincoln, August 28, 1963
the civil अधिकारों गति थी a श्रेणी of worldwide राजनैतिक आंदोलनों लिये समता before the law that peaked in the 1960s.
in many situations it took the form of campaigns of सिविल resistance aimed at achieving बदलें by nonviolent फ़ॉर्म of resistance.
In some situations it थी accompanied, or followed, by civil unrest and हथियारबंद rebellion.
The process थी long and tenuous in many countries, and many of these movements किया not fully achieve उनके लक्ष्य although, the प्रयत्न of ये movements did lead to सुधार in the विधिक rights of previously oppressed समूह of people.
The प्रमुख उद्देश्य of the civil rights movement शामिल, and शामिल, ensuring that the rights of all people are equally protected by the law, including the rights of minorities.
Civil अधिकारों आंदोलनों ranging from the global lgbt अधिकारों movement to the global महिलाओं 's अधिकारों गति to various जातिगत minority rights movements around the संसार continue.
the 2010 FIFA World कप was the 19th फीफा संसार Cup, the world चैंपियनशिप for men 's national association फ़ुटबॉल टीमों.
it took place in South अफ़्रीकी from 11 June to 11 जुलाई 2010.
the bidding process लिये होस्टिंग the टूर्नामेंट फाइनल थी खोलें only to African राष्ट्र ; in 2004, the international फ़ुटबॉल संघ, FIFA, selected दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी over Egypt और Morocco to become the first अफ़्रीकी nation to host the फाइनल.
the मिलान were played in ten stadiums in nine मेजबान शहरों around the country, with the फाइनल निभाई at the सॉकर City स्टेडियम in दक्षिण Africa 's largest city, Johannesburg.
Thirty-two टीमों यहूद selected for भागीदारी via a worldwide qualification tournament कि began in August 2007.
In the पहला गोलाकार of the टूर्नामेंट finals, the teams competed in round-robin समूह of four teams for points, with the top दो teams in प्रत्येक समूह proceeding.
ये sixteen teams advanced to the knockout स्टेज, where three rounds of खेल decided जिससे teams would participate in the final.
In the final, Spain, the European champions, पराजित third-time finalists the नीदरलैंड्स 1–0 बाद अतिरिक्त समय, with Andrés iniesta 's लक्ष्य in the 116th minute giving स्पेन उनके पहला संसार title, becoming the eighth स्वदेश to win the टूर्नामेंट, और the first European nation to जीत the tournament outside इसके घर continent.
Host स्वदेश South अफ़्रीकी, 2006 संसार champions Italy और 2006 runners-up फ़्रांस were सब eliminated in the first round of the tournament.
it थी the पहला समय कि the hosts यहूद eliminated in the पहला round.
New Zealand साथ their तीन draws यहूद the only undefeated team in the टूर्नामेंट, but were also eliminated in the first round.
the mcmuffin is a family of breakfast सैंडविच in various आकार and configurations, sold by the fast-food restaurant chain McDonald 's.
the अंडा McMuffin is the हस्ताक्षर breakfast सैंडविच ; it was invented by the late McDonald 's वाल Herb पीटरसन in the late 1960s और was introduced देशभर in 1972.
जॉन लेनन was an English musician who gained विश्वव्यापी fame as one of the founders of The Beatles, for उसके subsequent सोलो career, और लिये his political सक्रियता और pacifism.
he was शॉट by चिह्नित David chapman at the प्रवेश of the building जहाँ he lived, The डकोटा, in New York City on 8 December 1980.
लेनन had बस returned from रिकार्ड संयंत्र Studio साथ his wife, योको ओनो.
लेनन थी pronounced dead on arrival at st. Luke's-Roosevelt हॉस्पिटल Center, जहाँ it थी stated कि nobody could have lived for अधिक than a few मिनट्स बाद sustaining such injuries.
Shortly बाद local news स्टेशन reported Lennon 's death, crowds gathered at Roosevelt हॉस्पिटल और in सामने of the डकोटा.
Lennon थी cremated on 10 December 1980 at the ferncliff कब्रिस्तान in Hartsdale, New यॉर्क ; the राख were given to Ono, who chose नहीं to थाम a अंत्येष्टि लिये उसे.
the पहला report of Lennon 's मौत to a U.S. national दर्शक was घोषित by Howard Cosell, on एबीसी 's सोमवार रात्रि Football.
New Orleans ( or, locally or ; ) is a major संयुक्त राज्य बंदरगाहों and the largest नगर और महानगर area in the state of Louisiana.
The जनसांख्यिकी of the नगर थी 343,829 as of the 2010 u.S. जनसांख्यिकी.
the New ऑरलियन्स metropolitan area ( नई orleans–metairie–kenner महानगर सांख्यिकीय Area ) था a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,167,764 in 2010 और थी the 46th largest in the संयुक्त राज्य.
the New Orleans–Metairie–Bogalusa Combined सांख्यिकीय Area, a larger trading क्षेत्रफल, had a 2010 population of 1,214,932.
the city is named बाद Orléans, a city located on the loire नदी in Centre, फ़्रांस, and is खूब ज्ञात for इसके पृथक फ्रेंच Creole architecture, as well as इसके cross-cultural और बहुभाषी विरासत.
New Orleans is भी famous लिये इसके cuisine, music ( particularly as the जन्मस्थान of जैज़ ), and इसके सालाना celebrations and त्यौहार, सबसे notably mardi Gras.
the city is often referred to as the `` most unique '' in America.
New Orleans is स्तिथ in southeastern louisiana, straddling the मिसिसिपी नदी.
The city और ऑरलियन्स मोहल्ला ( ) हैं.
The नगर और parish are bounded by the parishes of st. Tammany to the north, st. बर्नार्ड to the ईस्ट, Plaquemines to the south and जेफरसन to the south and वेस्ट.
Lake Pontchartrain, भाग of जिससे is शामिल in the city हद, झूठ to the north and झील borgne lies to the ईस्ट.
the संयुक्त राज्य presidential चुनाव of 1968 was the 46th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, held on मंगलवार, November 5, 1968.
The Republican nominee, पूर्व Vice-President रिचर्ड Nixon, won the चुनाव over the Democratic nominee, incumbent Vice-President Hubert Humphrey.
निक्सन भागा on a campaign that promised to restore law और अनुक्रम to the nation 's cities, torn by riots और crime.
विश्लेषकों have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning election as it permanently disrupted the नई Deal Coalition that था dominated अध्यक्षीय राजनीती लिये 36 सालो.
coming four सालो बाद Democrat Lyndon B. जॉनसन won in a historic landslide, the चुनाव saw the लाज़िम अध्यक्ष मजबूर out of the race and a Republican elected for the first time in बारह सालो.
it थी a विदारक national अनुभव, conducted दौरान a साल of violence कि included the assassination of सिविल rights leader Martin लूथर किंग, jr., and subsequent रेस दंगे आरपार the स्वदेश, the assasination of लोकतांत्रिक presidential प्रत्याशी रॉबर्ट F. Kennedy, फैली opposition to the वियतनाम War आरपार university campuses, और violent confrontations between police and anti-war प्रदर्शनकारियों at the 1968 लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल सम्मेलन as the Democratic party split again and again.
the चुनाव featured the strongest third party प्रयत्न चूंकि 1912 by पूर्व अलबामा राज्यपाल जार्ज Wallace, a डेमोक्रेट.
Because Wallace 's campaign opposed federal intervention in the South to समाप्त school segregation, he carried the Deep दक्षिण और भागा well in ethnic industrial जिले in the North.
This was the पिछला चुनाव in which New York had the सबसे मत in the electoral college ( 43 votes ).
After the 1970 census, California gained the most चुनावी votes और रै remained the सबसे populous state since then.
This is the latest election जहाँ a अध्यक्षीय ticket जीती बगैर carrying the वाइस presidential प्रत्याशी 's घर राज्य.
करक ( ; भी ज्ञात as garak, Garrak, और Gorg ) is a village in gamasiyab Rural ज़िला, in the सेंट्रल ज़िला of Nahavand County, हमादान प्रांत, Iran.
at the 2006 जनसांख्यिकी, इसके population थी 294, in 65 families.
Kurt 's signature
कर्ट Donald कोबेन ( February 20, 1967 – April 5, 1994 ) थी an अमरीकी musician और artist, best ज्ञात as the सीसे सिंगर, guitarist and प्राथमिक songwriter of the grunge band निर्वाण.
कोबेन formed निर्वाण with krist novoselic in एबरडीन, वॉशिंगटन in 1985 and स्थापित it as part of the सिएटल music झाँकी, having its डेब्यू album ब्लीच released on the स्वतंत्र record लेबल sub Pop in 1989.
बाद हस्ताक्षर with प्रमुख लेबल dgc Records, the बैंड found भेदन कामयाबी साथ `` खुश्बू Like Teen Spirit `` from its दूसरी album Nevermind ( 1991 ).
following the कामयाबी of nevermind, निर्वाण थी labeled `` the flagship बैंड '' of Generation x, और कोबेन hailed as `` the प्रवक्ता of a पीढी ''.
Cobain, however, was often uncomfortable and कुंठित, believing his message और artistic vision to have been misinterpreted by the public, साथ उसके personal issues प्रायः विषय to media attention.
he challenged Nirvana 's audience with its final studio एल्बम In Utero ( 1993 ).
During the पिछला years of उसके जीवन, कोबेन struggled साथ हेरोइन व्यसन, बीमारी and अवसाद.
he also had परेशानी coping साथ his fame और पब्लिक चित्र, and the पेशेवर and lifelong निजी pressures surrounding खुद और उसके बीवी, संगीतकार Courtney Love.
On April 8, 1994, कोबेन थी found dead at his home in सिएटल, the victim of what was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun घाव to the head.
the हालातों of his death at age 27 have become a टॉपिक of पब्लिक fascination और बहस.
Since their debut, निर्वाण, with Cobain as a songwriter, रै sold over 25 लाख एल्बम in the U.S., और over 50 million विश्वव्यापी.
a millwright is a craftsman or tradesman सगाई with the construction और maintenance of मशीनरी.
अधिक generally in the English बोलना संसार, early millwrights were specialist carpenters जो erected मशीने used in कृषि, खाना प्रसंस्करण और processing lumber and पेपर.
In the जल्दी भाग of the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति, उनके skills यहूद दबाया into सेवा भवन the earliest powered textile मिलों.
आधुनिक millwrights work with स्टील and अन्य सामग्री in addition to wood and must प्रायः combine the skills of अनेक skilled trades in अनुक्रम to सफलतापूर्वक fabricate औद्योगिक मशीनरी or to assemble मशीने इससे pre-fabricated parts.
The modern millwright must भी be able to पढ़ा blueprints and other schematics to सहायता उसे in the construction of जटिल प्रणालियों.
Millwrights are अक्सर unionized, with around 45 % unionized in the us, हालांकि अनुभवी millwrights प्रायः नियत themselves up as स्वतंत्र ठेकेदारों.
The Adjustment Bureau is a 2011 American रोमांटिक action थ्रिलर फिल्मी loosely आधारित on the फिलिप K. लंड छोटी स्टोरी, `` समायोजन Team ``.
the फिल्मी थी लिखा और निर्देशित by जार्ज nolfi and stars Matt Damon and एमिली Blunt.
The cast भी शामिल Anthony mackie, John Slattery, माइकल Kelly, और टेरेंस Stamp.
the score थी रचित by Thomas Newman, साथ two songs by Richard Ashcroft ( `` Future 's उज्जवल '' लिये the खोलने अनुक्रम ; `` Are You तैयार ? '' लिये the closing क्रेडिट ).
Sodium azide is the inorganic compound with the formula NaN3.
इस colorless salt is the gas-forming घटक in अनेक car airbag systems.
it is प्रयुक्त लिये the तैयारी of अन्य azide यौगिकों.
it is an ionic पदार्थ, is अत्यधिक घुलनशील in water, और is very acutely toxic.
Double रेनबो और supernumerary rainbows on the अंदर of the प्राथमिक arc.
The छाया of the फ़ोटोग्राफ़र 's सिर on the नीचे marks the centre of the rainbow circle ( antisolar पाइंट ).
A रेनबो is an optical और meteorological घटना that is caused by प्रतिबिंब of लाइट in जल droplets in the धरती 's atmosphere, resulting in a वर्णक्रम of light appearing in the sky.
it takes the रूप of a multicoloured चाप.
rainbows caused by sunlight सदा appear in the खण्ड of sky directly opposite the सूर्य.
In a `` primary रेनबो '', the चाप shows रेड on the outer भाग and violet on the भीतरी पक्ष.
This रेनबो is caused by light being refracted जबकि प्रवेश a droplet of जल, तब reflected inside on the वापस of the droplet and refracted again जब leaving it.
In a double रेनबो, a second arc is देखी बाहर the primary चाप, और has the order of इसके colours reversed, रेड facing toward the अन्य one, in both rainbows.
इस दूसरी rainbow is caused by light reflecting twice अंदर water droplets.
the Conservative Party, officially the रूढ़िवादी and यूनियनिस्ट Party and colloquially referred to as the Tory Party or the tories, is a centre-right political पार्टी in the संयुक्त किंगडम कि espouses the philosophies of conservatism and अंग्रेजों unionism.
it is the largest political पार्टी in the United Kingdom, being the largest single पार्टी in the House of कॉमन्स साथ 303 MPs, the largest पार्टी in local सरकारी साथ 9,391 पार्षदों, और the largest अंग्रेजों पार्टी in the European पार्लियामेंट with 25 meps.
it governs in coalition साथ the उदार Democrats, with party leader David cameron as प्रधान Minister.
the Conservative Party थी संस्थापित in 1834, and थी एक of two प्रबल parties in the 19th सदी, साथ साथ the Liberal Party.
it changed इसके name to the रूढ़िवादी and Unionist Party in 1912 बाद merging with the Liberal Unionist Party, although that name is rarely प्रयुक्त and it is generally referred to as बस the Conservative Party.
in the 1920s, the Liberal vote greatly diminished and the श्रमिक Party became the conservatives ' main rivals.
Conservative Prime मंत्रियों led governments लिये 57 सालो of the 20th सदी, including विंस्टन Churchill ( 1940–45, 1951–55 ) और मार्गरेट थैचर ( 1979–90 ).
Thatcher 's tenure led to wide-ranging economic liberalisation and saw the Conservatives become the most eurosceptic of the तीन major parties.
The party was लौटे to सरकारी in गठबन्धन, having विफल to जीत a majority, in 2010 अंतर्गत the अधिक `` उदार '' leadership of दाउद Cameron.
In the यूरोपीय पार्लियामेंट, the Conservatives are the largest British party साथ 25 MEPs, who बैठना साथ the soft eurosceptic European conservatives और Reformists ( ECR ) संसदीय समूह, while the पार्टी itself is a member of the Alliance of यूरोपीय Conservatives and Reformists ( aecr ) Europarty.
They are the third-largest पार्टी in the Scottish पार्लियामेंट and second-largest in the वेल्श Assembly.
They were formally allied to the Ulster Unionist पार्टी ( uup ) as part of the ulster conservatives and Unionists arrangement, with the uup currently participating in the five-party Northern Ireland कार्यपालिका.
नियति 's Child was an अमरीकी r & b girl group whose final, और शायद सबसे recognizable, line-up comprised Beyoncé Knowles, Kelly Rowland and Michelle विलियम्स.
formed in 1990 in Houston, Texas, नियति 's चाइल्ड members began their musical endeavors as लड़की 's टीमे comprising, among अन्य, Knowles, rowland, LaTavia Roberson और LeToya luckett.
बाद सालो of limited कामयाबी, वे were signed to Columbia रिकॉर्ड as नियति 's Child.
Destiny 's Child was शुभारम्भ into mainstream recognition following the release of their best-selling second एल्बम, The Writing 's on the वॉल, जिससे contained the number-one singles `` बिल्स, Bills, Bills `` और `` कह My Name ``.
Despite critical and commercial success, the group थी plagued by आतंरिक conflict and legal turmoil, as Roberson and Luckett attempted to विभाजित from the group 's manager Mathew Knowles, citing favoritism of Knowles और Rowland, उसके daughter and भांजी, respectively.
Both Roberson और Luckett यहूद soon replaced with विलियम्स और farrah फ्रैंकलिन ; however, in 2000, फ्रैंकलिन थी dismissed, leaving उन्हें as a trio.
उनके third album, उत्तरजीवी, which contains themes the पब्लिक interpreted as a चैनल to the समूह 's अनुभव, contains the विश्वव्यापी हिट्स `` Independent Women ``, `` उत्तरजीवी `` and `` bootylicious ``.
In 2002, वे घोषित a hiatus और re-united two सालो later for the release of उनके fourth studio album, नियति fulfilled ( 2004 ).
नियति 's Child रै बेची more than 50 million records विश्वव्यापी to date.
Billboard पत्रिका ranks the group as एक of the महानतम musical trios of सब समय, the ninth सबसे successful artist/band of the 2000s, and लगाई the समूह 68th in its all-time hot 100 Artists list in 2008.
The centers for Disease कंट्रोल and रोकथाम ( CDC ) is a संयुक्त States संघीय एजेंसी अंतर्गत the Department of स्वास्थ्य and इंसान Services headquartered in Druid पहाड़ियाँ, unincorporated dekalb काउंटी, Georgia, in Greater Atlanta.
it works to protect पब्लिक health और सुरक्षा by providing सूचना to enhance health निर्णय, and it promotes health through partnerships साथ राज्य health विभाग and other organizations.
the CDC फ़ोकस नेशनल ध्यान on developing और applying disease रोकथाम और कंट्रोल ( विशेषकर infectious रोगों और foodborne pathogens and other सूक्ष्मजैविक infections ), environmental स्वास्थ्य, occupational सुरक्षा and स्वास्थ्य, स्वास्थ्य promotion, injury prevention और शिक्षा क्रियाएँ designed to improve the स्वास्थ्य of the people of the United राज्य.
the सीडीसी is the संयुक्त States ' national public health institute और is a founding सदस्य of the International Association of National Public स्वास्थ्य संस्थान.
भूकंप भविष्यवाणी `` is प्रायः पारिभाषित as the specification of the समय, location, and magnitude of a future earthquake भीतर stated हद '', and विशेषकर of `` the next दमदार earthquake to occur in a region. ''
इस can be विशिष्ट from भूकंप forecasting, जिससे is the probabilistic assessment of सामान्य earthquake जोखिम, सहित the frequency and magnitude of damaging earthquakes, in a दिए area over periods of years or decades.
This can be further विशिष्ट इससे real-time earthquake warning systems, which, upon डिटेक्शन of a severe भूकंप, can provide neighboring regions a few सेकेंड चेतावनी of potentially significant shaking.
To be useful, an earthquake भविष्यवाणी must be precise enough to वारंट the cost of increased precautions, including disruption of ordinary activities and कॉमर्स, और timely enough that तैयारी can be बना.
Predictions must भी be reliable, as गलत alarms and cancelled सचेतक हैं नहीं only economically costly, but seriously undermine confidence in, और thereby the प्रभावकारिता of, कोई दयालु of warning.
साथ over 7,000 भूकंप around the संसार प्रत्येक साल with a magnitude of 4.0 or वृहद, trivial कामयाबी in भूकंप भविष्यवाणी is easily obtained using fear broad parameters of time, location, or magnitude.
however, ऐसे trivial `` कामयाब predictions '' हैं नहीं useful.
प्रमुख earthquakes are often followed by रिपोर्ट्स कि they were predicted, or at least anticipated, but no claim of a successful prediction of a प्रमुख भूकंप रै बच close inquiry.
In the 1970s वहीँ was intense आशावाद amongst वैज्ञानिकों that कुछ विधि of predicting भूकंप might be मिला, but by the 1990s continuing failure led many scientists to question whether it थी भी possible.
While many scientists स्टिल थाम that, given enough संसाधन, भविष्यवाणी might be possible, many others maintain that earthquake भविष्यवाणी is inherently नामुमकिन.
Deborah ऐन `` Debby '' Ryan ( born may 13, 1993 ) is an American अभिनेत्री, singer, musician, songwriter और record producer.
Ryan is best ज्ञात for अभिनीत as बेली Pickett in the डिज़्नी Channel असली श्रेणी the सुइट जीवन on डेक.
In 2008, the सुइट Life on Deck ranked as TV 's top series among kids 6-11 and the no. 2 scripted series among tweens 9-14.
रयान started acting in पेशेवर theatres at the age of seven ; in 2007 वो appeared in the Barney & Friends straight-to-DVD फिल्मी बार्नी : Let 's go to the फायरहाउस and तब थी discovered in a nationwide search by डिज़्नी.
वो is also known for appearing in the 2008 feature फिल्मी The Longshots as Edith.
in 2009, she guest स्ट्रक्चर in an episode of wizards of waverly Place in wizards on डेक साथ हन्ना मोंटाना as Bailey Pickett along साथ उसके other डाल mates इससे the Suite जीवन on Deck.
तब, in 2010, she starred in the फिल्मी 16 बधाइयां, जिससे थी the most watched cable program on the day of its प्रीमियर on the डिज़्नी चैनल.
16 Wishes introduced रयान to new audiences ; the फिल्म प्राप्त ऊँची viewership in the वयस्कों demographic ( 18-34 ).
जल्द बाद कि, रयान स्ट्रक्चर in the independent नाट्य film, What if..., जिससे premiered on अगस्त 20, 2010.
Ryan also starred in the नई Disney चैनल Original फिल्म, Radio विद्रोही, where she portrays the भूमिका of tara Adams, a शर्मीले 17-year-old girl जो adopts the radio personality, रेडियो विद्रोही.
released February 17, 2012.
Ryan stars in the titular role in the Disney Channel Original Series, Jessie.
stührling tourbillon Movement ( ).
in horology, a tourbillon ( ; `` whirlwind '' ) is an जोड to the यांत्रिकी of a देखें escapement.
विकसित around 1795 by the french-swiss घड़ीसाज़ abraham-louis Breguet from an पहले विचार by the अंग्रेज़ी chronometer मेकर जॉन Arnold, a tourbillon aims to counter the प्रभाव of गम्भीरता by mounting the escapement और balance व्हील in a घूर्णन cage, to negate the effect of gravity जब the timepiece ( यूँ the escapement ) is stuck in a certain position.
Originally an attempt to improve accuracy, tourbillons are स्टिल शामिल in कुछ महंगी आधुनिक घड़ियाँ as a विलक्षणता and demonstration of watchmaking virtuosity.
the यांत्रिकी is प्रायः उजागर on the देखें 's face to show it बंद.
The खिड़कियाँ installer ( previously known as Microsoft installer ) is a software घटक प्रयुक्त for the installation, maintenance, और removal of software on आधुनिक Microsoft Windows systems.
The installation information, and often the files themselves, हैं packaged in installation पैकेज, loosely relational databases structured as com संरचित storages and commonly ज्ञात as `` MSI files '', from उनके default संचिका एक्सटेंशन.
खिड़कियाँ Installer contains significant changes इससे इसके पूर्ववर्ती, सेटअप API.
New features include a जीयूआई फ्रेमवर्क और स्वचालित generation of the uninstallation sequence.
Windows Installer is positioned as an alternative to stand-alone executable installer frameworks ऐसे as पुरानी संस्करण of InstallShield and NSIS.
microsoft encourages तीसरा parties to उपयोग खिड़कियाँ Installer as the basis for संस्थापना frameworks, so कि वे synchronize correctly with अन्य installers and keep the internal डेटाबेस of installed उत्पाद consistent.
Important सुविधाएँ such as rollback और versioning निर्भर on a सतत आतंरिक डेटाबेस लिये reliable आपरेशन.
furthermore, Windows Installer facilitates the principle of least privilege by performing तन्त्र installations by प्रॉक्सी for unprivileged users.
Four लोको is a line of alcoholic पेय, originally marketed as energy drinks, बेची by Phusion Projects of शिकागो, इलिनोइस.
phusion operates as Drink चार Brewing कम्पनी.
Four लोको, the कम्पनी 's सबसे popular पेय, debuted in the संयुक्त States मार्केट in 2005.
it is now sold in 48 states, और in कनाडा, the Bahamas, बोलीविया, Honduras, और यूरोपीय.
The नाम `` चार '' is निकला from the original उर्जा drink 's चार प्रमुख ingredients : alcohol, caffeine, taurine, and guarana.
Four branded products have महरूम the ऑब्जेक्ट of legal, ethical, and स्वास्थ्य चिंताएं सम्बन्धित to the company allegedly विपणन उन्हें to the underaged and the purported खतरे of combining alcohol और कैफीन.
बाद the पेय थी banned in several states, a उत्पाद reintroduction in दिसम्बर 2010 removed caffeine, taurine, और guarana as ingredients, और the malt beverage is no longer marketed as an उर्जा पेय.
the neck of a गिटार प्रर्दशित the नट ( in the background, coloured white ) और first चार metal frets.
A fret is a उठाया तत्व on the गर्दन of a stringed instrument.
frets प्रायः extend आरपार the पूरा width of the neck.
On most modern western fretted instruments, frets हैं मेटल स्ट्रिप्स inserted into the fingerboard.
on कुछ ऐतिहासिक यंत्र और non-European instruments, frets are made of टुकड़े of string tied around the गर्दन.
frets divide the गर्दन into fixed segments at intervals सम्बन्धित to a musical framework.
On instruments such as guitars, प्रत्येक fret represents एक semitone in the मानक पश्चिमी प्रणाली where one अष्टक is divided into twelve semitones.
fret is प्रायः used as a क्रिया, अर्थ बस `` to press bas the स्ट्रिंग पीछे a fret. ''
Fretting प्रायः refers to the frets and/or their system of अवस्थिति.
There थी खपत of दारू both दौरान and बाद निषेध.
The 18th amendment prohibited the production, वितरण और sale of alcoholic पेय in the संयुक्त States और थी widely समर्थित by the American public when it गई into effect in 1920.
the temperance गति had popularized the विश्वास that दारू थी the major cause of most निजी और सोशल समस्याएं और prohibition थी देखी as the solution to the nation 's poverty, अपराधों, हिंसा, and other ills.
Upon अनुसमर्थन of the amendment, the प्रसिद्ध इंजीलवादी Billy Sunday कहा कि `` The slums will soon be तभी a memory.
We होगा फेरे our जेलों into कारखानों and हमारी jails into storehouses और corncribs. ''
( compare Christianity और alcohol. )
Since दारू थी to be बैन और since it थी seen as the cause of most, if not सब, अपराधों, some communities sold their jails.
The स्वदेश was highly आशावादी and the leading prohibitionist in the United States Congress confidently asserted कि `` वहीँ is as much मौका of repealing the eighteenth Amendment as वहीँ is for a hummingbird to मक्खी to the planet Mars साथ the वॉशिंगटन Monument tied to its tail.”
The metre ( meter in अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी ), ( si unit प्रतीक : m ; si dimension प्रतीक : l ), is the fundamental ईकाई of length in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रणाली of Units ( si ).
Originally intended to be one ten-millionth of the अलहदा from the धरती 's equator to the North ध्रुव ( at sea स्तर ), its परिभाषा रै महरूम periodically refined to प्रतिबिंबित growing knowledge of metrology.
चूंकि 1983, it रै been पारिभाषित as `` the लंबाई of the path travelled by light in vacuum दौरान a time interval of 1/299,792,458 of a second. ''
Geologists exploring Jurassic sedimentary रॉक्स in makhtesh Gadol, negev मरुस्थल, इसराईल
Geologists explaining the importance of volcanic राख परतों to विद्यार्थी on फ़ील्ड in Iceland
a geologist is a scientist जो अध्ययन the solid and द्रव matter that constitutes the धरती as खूब as the processes और history that रै तराशा it.
Geologists प्रायः engage in studying भूविज्ञान.
Geologists, अध्ययन अधिक of an applied science than a theoretical one, must approach Geology using भौतिकी, रसायन and जीवविज्ञान as well as other sciences.
geologists, compared to scientists सगाई in अन्य fields, हैं generally अधिक exposed to the outdoors than staying in laboratories ; हालांकि some geologists prefer to perform सबसे of उनके studies in the lab.
Geologists हैं सगाई in exploration लिये mining companies in ढूंढें of धातुओं, oils, और अन्य Earth संसाधन.
They are also in the forefront of प्राकृतिक जोखिमों और आपदाओं warning और शमन, studying भूकंप, volcanic activity, tsunamis, मौसम तूफ़ान, and the like ; उनके अध्ययन are प्रयुक्त to warn the सामान्य पब्लिक of the occurrence of these कार्यक्रम.
Currently, geologists हैं also engaged in the discussion of climate बदलें, as वे पढ़ाई the history and प्रमाण for इस Earth process.
Below is a व्यापक ड्रिल and tap size चार्ट for सब drills, imperial and मीट्रिक, and टैप up to 36.5 mm.
Modern वैक्यूम tubes, ज़्यादातर miniature style
In इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स, a वैक्यूम ट्यूब, electron tube ( in North अमेरिका ), thermionic वाल्व, ट्यूब, or वाल्व is a यंत्र controlling इलेक्ट्रिक current through a vacuum in a sealed container.
the संग्राहक is often पतला transparent कांच in a roughly cylindrical shape.
the सरलतम vacuum ट्यूब, the डायोड, is essentially an incandescent light bulb साथ an added electrode inside.
जब the बल्ब 's filament is heated white-hot, electrons are `` boiled '' बंद इसके surface and into the vacuum अंदर the बल्ब.
If the electrode -- पुकारा a `` थाली '' or `` धनाग्र '' -- is made more धनात्मक than the hot filament, a direct current flows through the वैक्यूम to the electrode ( a demonstration of the Edison effect ).
as the current only flows in one दिशा, it makes it संभावित to convert an प्रत्यावर्ती current applied to the filament to सीधा वर्तमान.
the परिचय of a तीसरा एलेक्ट्रोड, a grid between the filament and the थाली, yields another function.
A वोल्टेज applied to the grid controls the current बहती इससे the फिलामेंट to the plate.
Thus, it allows the device to be प्रयुक्त as an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक amplifier.
Vacuum tubes हैं thus प्रयुक्त लिये rectification, प्रवर्धन, switching, or similar processing or creation of विद्युत सिग्नल.
the vast बहुमत of modern दिन tubes consist of a sealed संग्राहक साथ a वैक्यूम अंदर, और essentially rely on तापायनिक उत्सर्जन of electrons from a hot filament or a cathode heated by the filament.
कुछ exceptions to इस are dealt with in the section about gas-filled tubes below.
Vacuum tubes were critical to the विकास of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक प्रौद्योगिकी, which drove the विस्तार and commercialization of रेडियो broadcasting, television, radar, sound reinforcement, ध्वनि recording और reproduction, large टेलीफोन संजाल, analog and digital computers, और औद्योगिक process control.
हालांकि कुछ applications था counterparts using पहले technologies ऐसे as the spark गैप ट्रांसमीटर or mechanical कंप्यूटर, it थी the invention of the वैक्यूम tube साथ three electrodes ( called a triode ) and इसके capability of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक प्रवर्धन that बना these technologies widespread and व्यावहारिक.
in most अनुप्रयोग, solid-state devices such as transistors और अन्य सेमीकंडक्टर devices have replaced tubes.
solid-state devices last longer और are smaller, more कुशल, अधिक विश्वसनीय, और cheaper than tubes.
Tubes can be नाजुक, sometimes generate significant unwanted ऊष्मा, और can लो अनेक seconds—many मिनट्स in critical applications—after powering on to गरम to a तापमान जहाँ वे perform within operational tolerance.
However, tubes स्टिल find uses जहाँ solid-state डिवाइस have not been developed, are impractical, or जहाँ a tube रै superior performance, as with some डिवाइस in professional audio और high-power रेडियो ट्रांसमीटरों.
tubes हैं still उत्पादित लिये such अनुप्रयोग.
tubes हैं less संभावित than semiconductor devices to be नष्ट by the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक पल्स produced by नाभिकीय explosions and geomagnetic storms produced by दानव सौर flares.
Skittles is a ब्रांड of fruit-flavoured मिठाई, फिलहाल produced and marketed by the Wm. Wrigley jr. कम्पनी, a प्रभाग of मंगल, inc.
वे have मुश्किल शुगर शेल which carry the letter s.
the अंदर is mainly sugar, मकई syrup, और hydrogenated palm kernel आयल साथ with फल juice, साइट्रिक एसिड, और प्राकृतिक और artificial flavours.
the confectionery has been बेची in a variety of flavour संग्रहण, ऐसे as तीव्र और जंगली बेरी.
Sir विंस्टन Leonard Spencer-Churchill, ( 30 नवम्बर 1874 – 24 जनवरी 1965 ) थी a अंग्रेजों राजनेता जो was the Prime मंत्री of the United Kingdom from 1940 to 1945 and again from 1951 to 1955.
widely regarded as एक of the greatest wartime leaders of the 20th सदी, चर्चिल थी also an अधिकारी in the British फौज, a इतिहासकार, a writer, और an artist.
he is the only अंग्रेजों प्रधान मंत्री in history to have received the Nobel Prize in साहित्य, और थी भी the पहला व्यक्ति to be made an Honorary Citizen of the United States.
चर्चिल was born into an aristocratic परिवार as the grandson of the 7th Duke of Marlborough.
उसके पिता, Lord Randolph Churchill, थी a charismatic राजनेता जो served as Chancellor of the Exchequer ; उसके mother, jennie Jerome, थी an अमरीकी socialite.
As a young फौज officer, he देखी action in अंग्रेजों इण्डिया, The Sudan, और the दूसरी Boer War.
He gained fame as a war correspondent and wrote books about his campaigns.
at the forefront of राजनीती लिये पचास years, he आयोजित अनेक राजनैतिक और cabinet positions.
Before the पहला संसार युद्ध, he परोसा as President of the Board of Trade, घर Secretary, and First Lord of the Admiralty as भाग of the Asquith Liberal सरकारी.
दौरान the युद्ध, he जारी as First रब of the admiralty जबतक the disastrous gallipoli अभियान caused his departure from सरकारी.
he तब briefly resumed क्रियाशील फौज सेवा on the Western Front as कमांडर of the 6th बटालियन of the royal Scots fusiliers.
he returned to सरकारी as मंत्री of munitions, Secretary of State लिये War, और सचिव of State लिये Air.
बाद the युद्ध, चर्चिल परोसा as Chancellor of the exchequer in the रूढ़िवादी ( baldwin ) सरकारी of 1924–29, controversially returning the pound स्टर्लिंग in 1925 to the सुनहरा standard at इसके pre-war पैरिटी, a move widely seen as बनाना deflationary दबाव on the uk economy.
Also विवादास्पद was उसके विपक्ष to increased घर rule for India and उसके प्रतिरोध to the 1936 abdication of एडवर्ड viii.
Out of office and नीतियां `` in the wilderness '' during the 1930s, Churchill took the lead in चेतावनी परिचय Nazi Germany और in campaigning for rearmament.
On the outbreak of the दूसरी संसार युद्ध, he थी again नियुक्त पहला रब of the admiralty.
following the resignation of Neville Chamberlain on 10 May 1940, चर्चिल became प्रधान Minister.
उसके steadfast refusal to consider defeat, surrender, or a compromise सलाम helped inspire अंग्रेजों resistance, विशेषकर during the मुश्किल जल्दी days of the युद्ध when Britain stood alone among यूरोपीय देशों in its क्रियाशील विपक्ष to Adolf हिटलर.
Churchill was विशेषकर noted लिये his speeches and radio broadcasts, which helped inspire the अंग्रेजों people.
he led ब्रिटेन as Prime Minister until victory over Nazi जर्मनी had महरूम secured.
After the रूढ़िवादी Party lost the 1945 चुनाव, he became Leader of the Opposition to the Labour ( Attlee ) government.
बाद जीतना the 1951 election, he again became Prime Minister, before retiring in 1955.
Upon उसके मौत, Elizabeth II granted him the इज्ज़त of a राज्य funeral, which saw एक of the largest सभाओं of world statesmen in इतिहास.
नामित the Greatest Briton of सब समय in a 2002 poll, Churchill is widely regarded as होने among the सबसे influential people in अंग्रेजों इतिहास.
Ruby Gloom is an एनिमेटेड television दिखाएँ आधारित on an वस्त्र franchise.
the दिखाएँ is produced by Nelvana and began airing on October 13, 2006 in Canada on the संजाल ytv.
It stars the voices of Sarah Gadon, Emily हैम्पशायर, and Peter Keleghan.
The Ford Focus is a कॉम्पैक्ट car ( C-segment in यूरोपीय ) manufactured by the घाट Motor Company चूंकि 1998.
घाट began बिक्री of the Focus to यूरोपीय in जुलाई 1998 and in उत्तर अमेरिका during 1999 लिये the 2000 मॉडल year.
In यूरोपीय, दक्षिण अमेरिका, उत्तर America और South Africa, the फ़ोकस replaced the विभिन्न संस्करण of the Ford Escort बेची in those markets.
In Asia and australasia, it replaced the Ford लेज़र.
as of the first half of 2012, the Focus surpassed the टोयोटा कोरोला to become the world 's बेहतरीन selling ऑटोमोबाइल nameplate.
The फ़ोकस रै been considered one of the 50 महानतम गाड़ियाँ of the past पचास सालो by अंग्रेजों पत्रिका CAR.
An agar थाली -- an example of a बैक्टीरियल growth मीडियम.
specifically, it is a streak थाली ; the orange lines और dots हैं formed by bacterial colonies.
A growth मीडियम or culture medium is a द्रव or gel designed to support the विकास of microorganisms or cells, or small पौधे like the मॉस Physcomitrella patens.
There are different types of media for growing different प्रकार of कोशिकाएं.
There are two major प्रकार of growth media : those used for cell culture, जिससे use specific cell types निकला इससे पौधे or पशु, और microbiological culture, जिससे हैं प्रयुक्त लिये growing microorganisms, ऐसे as जीवाणु or खमीर.
the most आम विकास मीडिया लिये microorganisms हैं nutrient broths और आगर plates ; specialized मीडिया हैं sometimes required लिये microorganism और cell संस्कृति विकास.
कुछ जीवों, termed सुकुमार organisms, आवश्यकता specialized environments due to जटिल nutritional आवश्यकताएँ.
वाइरस, for example, are obligate intracellular परजीवी और require a growth मीडियम containing living कोशिकाएं.
A talent एजेंट, or बुकिंग agent, is a व्यक्ति जो पाता कार्य लिये अभिनेताओं, authors, film directors, musicians, models, producers, professional एथलीट, लेखक और अन्य people in various entertainment businesses.
An agent also defends, supports और promotes the ब्याज of his/her clients.
Agents can नहीं उपज their own shows due to विरोध of interest.
A talent एजेंट must be familiar साथ उनके क्लाइंट.
an agent रै to know what kind of work the क्लाएंट can and can not do in अनुक्रम to match उन्हें with विभिन्न jobs.
Having an एजेंट is नहीं required, but करता सहायता the artist in getting jobs.
in many मामले ढलाई निर्देशकों, or other व्यवसायों, go to talent agencies to ढूँढें कलाकारों वे हैं looking लिये.
the agent is paid a percentage of the स्टार 's earnings ( typically 10 % ).
एजेंटों sometimes होगा be referred to as `` 10 percenters. ''
There are अलग regulations कि govern different प्रकार of एजेंटों कि हैं established by artist 's संघ and the legal क्षेत्राधिकार in which the एजेंट operates.
There हैं भी पेशेवर organizations that अनुज्ञा talent agencies.
चूंकि the मनाही in viewership in theaters, इससे the 1950s to 1960s, this caused a स्मारकीय shift in कैसा studios would produce films and thus reducing the लागत of विशेष and expensive actors.
Actors और अभिनेत्रियों यहूद working for the studios but यहूद not स्वामित्व by एक major studio entity और so were समर्थ to work on within उनके समय and साथ अन्य studios.
Because of इस, agents यहूद now देखी as a necessity instead of an option.
Agents now became third parties that negotiated between studios और clients, this making their सेवाएं imperative between प्रत्येक पार्टी.
Since हुनर एजेंसियों are working with lucrative contracts, all talent एजेंसियों must be licensed under खास sections of the California Labor Code, which काल्स an एजेंट a `` व्यक्ति or corporation who engages in the occupation of procuring, offering, होनहार, or attempting to procure नियुक्ति लिये कलाकार or artists. ''
मंगल has two known moons, phobos and Deimos, which हैं thought to be captured asteroids.
Both satellites were discovered in 1877 by Asaph हॉल and हैं नामित बाद the characters phobos ( panic/fear ) and Deimos ( terror/dread ) who, in यूनानी mythology, accompanied their पिता एरीस, परमेश्वर of युद्ध, into बैटल.
Ares थी ज्ञात as मंगल to the romans.
it is possible कि मंगल may have moons smaller than 50 - 100 meters और a धूल रिंग between phobos and deimos may be present but none have महरूम खोजा.
In law प्रवर्तन parlance, the term हत्या book refers to the मामला संचिका of a murder investigation.
Typically, murder किताबे शामिल crime झाँकी छायाचित्र and sketches, autopsy और forensic reports, transcripts of जांचकर्ताओं ' notes और witness interviews.
The murder book encapsulates the पूरा paper ट्रेल of a murder investigation, from the समय the murder is first reported through the arrest of a suspect.
विधि enforcement agencies typically गार्ड murder किताबे carefully, and it is unusual for civilians to be given unfettered अभिगम to ये kinds of records, especially for unsolved मामले.
A melon baller
melon गेंदें हैं balls of melon बना using a melon baller कि varies इससे around 1 centimeter to 3 centimeters ( परिचय 3/8 इंच to 1 इंच ).
They are generally used in फल सलाद.
a ksa, or Knowledge, Skills, और abilities, is a series of narrative statements that हैं जरूरी जब applying to United राज्य संघीय government job openings.
ksas हैं used to determine, along with resumes, who the बेहतरीन आवेदकों हैं जब अनेक candidates qualify for a job.
The ज्ञान, skills और abilities ( ksas ) necessary लिये the कामयाब प्रदर्शन of a position हैं contained on each जॉब रिक्ति घोषणा.
In 2009 the दफ्तर of निजी प्रबन्धन पूछा संघीय एजेंसियों to रोकें requiring job applicants to भरण आउट the questionnaires, to be phased out within a year.
KSAs हैं ब्रैड और केन्द्रित essays परिचय एक 's करियर and educational background कि presumably qualify एक to perform the कर्तव्य of the स्थिति being applied for.
a knowledge, कौशल, और abilities ( ksa ) is a संक्षिप्त निबन्ध परिचय one 's हुनर और expertise और related अनुभवों ( कार्य, education, स्वयंसेवी ) and accomplishments.
a series of ksa कथन हैं प्रायः required जब applying for सबसे federal government और कुछ state और नगर government कार्य.
KSAs हैं used as a yardstick to assess the सामर्थ्य of a prospective आवेदक in शर्तें of likely क्षमता to perform the duties of the जॉब.
Most सरकारी भर्ती officials look for a short, कुरकुरे and साफ KSA कि emphasizes results or accomplishments obtained in previous कार्य.
ksa statements are भी ज्ञात as Evaluation कारकों.
अन्य agencies sometimes कॉल उन्हें `` Rating Factors '', `` विशेषता रैंकिंग Factors '', `` Knowledge, abilities, skills and Other विशेषताएँ '', or `` Job Elements ''.
The name can be just a name but प्रायः it प्रभाव सामग्री and length of the निबन्ध.
प्रत्येक agency has its own regulations but most of the समय the प्रत्येक KSA फ़ैक्टर should be 1/2 to 11⁄2 pages long.
the नीचे परिभाषाएं हैं defined by the u.S. दफ्तर of Personnel Management :
ज्ञान, कौशल, and Abilities ( KSAs ) - the गुण required to perform a job और are generally demonstrated through qualifying service, education, or training.
ज्ञान - Is a body of information applied सीधे to the प्रदर्शन of a फलन.
Skill - is an observable competence to perform a सीखे psychomotor act.
Ability - Is competence to perform an observable behavior or a बर्ताव कि परिणाम in an observable उत्पाद.
the scoring of KSA essays is based on a scale of इससे एक to 100.
Job applicants must score ऊपर 70 to be माना for the position.
ऊँची स्कोर हैं derived through answering the KSA question as specifically as संभावित, providing उदाहरण इससे previous employment or प्रशिक्षण that clearly demonstrate you मिलें the योग्यता.
When applying to federal government स्थितियाँ, a Federal Resume is usually जरूरी in जोड to KSA statements.
सही
पूरे दाने हैं cereal grains that contain cereal रोगाणु, endosperm, और bran, in कंट्रास्ट to परिष्कृत grains, जिससे retain तभी the भ्रूणपोष.
Common पूरे grains include:
Wheat
Oat
जौ - Hulled और dehulled ( नहीं Pearl )
Maize
Brown rice
farro
spelt
emmer
Einkorn
kamut
Rye
Millet
Quinoa
Amaranth
triticale
teff
sprouted Grains
Buckwheat
Common पूरे grain products include:
पूरे wheat flour
पूरे wheat ब्रैड
Whole wheat Pasta
लिपटे जई or oat groats
triticale flour
पॉपकॉर्न
Teff flour
Common refined non-whole अनाज products include:
Love सदा is the डेब्यू album of अमरीकी r & b duo K-Ci & JoJo, released on June 17, 1997, by mca रिकॉर्ड.
it थी अंकित at विभिन्न studios in New यॉर्क और the लॉस Angeles क्षेत्रफल in 1996 और 1997.
It थी produced by जोजो and several others, सहित DeVante Swing, जेम्स Mtume, and Jeff redd.
The duo यहूद originally a part of Jodeci पहले this एल्बम.
The एल्बम peaked at छठे on the US बिलबोर्ड 200 और भी appeared on international charts.
The सिंगल `` All my Life `` charted क्रमांक one in multiple देशों, and all four of the एल्बम 's singles peaked above the top 25 in the us Hot r & B/Hip-Hop Songs और the New जीलैंड शीर्ष 40 singles.
Love Always थी प्राप्त favorably by आलोचकों, who praised the भाइयो ' singing क्षमता और the उत्पादन.
The album has been certified तीन टाइम्स platinum by the Recording उद्योग Association of America ( RIAA ) और सुनहरा by म्यूज़िक Canada and IFPI स्वीडन.
as of जून 1999 it था बेची 2.9 लाख नक़ल in the United States.
A variable-rate mortgage, adjustable-rate बंधक ( भुजा ), or ट्रैकर बंधक is a बंधक ऋण साथ the ब्याज rate on the नोट periodically समायोजित based on an index जिससे reflects the cost to the lender of उधार on the क्रेडिट बाज़ार.
the ऋण may be offered at the lender 's standard परिवर्तनीय चूहाe/ आधार rate.
वहीँ may be a सीधा और legally-defined कड़ी to the underlying अनुक्रमणिका, लकिन जहाँ the lender offers no विशिष्ट link to the underlying मार्केट or अनुक्रमणिका the रेट can be changed at the lender 's discretion.
The term `` variable-rate बंधक '' is सबसे आम outside the संयुक्त राज्य, whilst in the संयुक्त States, `` adjustable-rate बंधक '' is सबसे common, और implies a mortgage regulated by the Federal government, with caps on आरोप.
In many countries, समायोज्य rate mortgages are the norm, and in such places, may बस be referred to as mortgages.
among the सबसे आम indices हैं the दरों on 1-year constant-maturity Treasury ( CMT ) प्रतिभूति, the लागत of निधि अनुक्रमणिका ( cofi ), and the London interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ).
A few lenders use उनके own cost of funds as an अनुक्रमणिका, बल्कि than using other indices.
This is done to ensure a steady हाशिया लिये the lender, जिनकी own cost of funding will usually be related to the index.
Consequently, भुगतान made by the borrower may change over समय with the बदलना ब्याज rate ( alternatively, the term of the loan may change ).
इस is पृथक इससे the ग्रैजुएट भुगतान बंधक, which offers changing भुगतान amounts but a फिक्स्ड ब्याज रेट.
अन्य फ़ॉर्म of बंधक loan include the ब्याज only mortgage, the fixed रेट बंधक, the ऋणात्मक amortization mortgage, and the गुब्बारा payment बंधक.
Adjustable rates transfer भाग of the ब्याज रेट रिस्क from the lender to the borrower.
वे can be प्रयुक्त where unpredictable ब्याज दरों make fixed rate लोन difficult to obtain.
the borrower लाभ if the ब्याज रेट falls but loses if the ब्याज rate increases.
The borrower benefits from reduced मार्जिन to the underlying cost of उधार compared to fixed or capped रेट mortgages.
The assassination of रॉबर्ट फ्रांसिस `` Bobby '' कैनेडी, a संयुक्त States Senator और bhai of assassinated अध्यक्ष जॉन fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy, took प्लेस shortly after मध्यरात्रि on जून 5, 1968, in Los एंजिल्स, California, during the अभियान ऋतु for the United States अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, 1968.
After winning the कैलिफ़ोर्निया and South डकोटा प्राथमिक elections लिये the Democratic nomination for President of the संयुक्त राज्य, कैनेडी was शॉट as he walked through the kitchen of the दूत होटल and died in the शुभ Samaritan Hospital twenty-six घंटों बाद.
sirhan Sirhan, a 24-year-old फिलीस्तीनी / Jordanian immigrant, was convicted of कैनेडी 's murder and is सेवारत a life sentence लिये the crime.
Sirhan 's वकील have released कथन claiming प्रमाण कि he was framed.
The शूटिंग थी अंकित on audio टेप by a freelance newspaper reporter, और the aftermath was captured on film.
Kennedy 's देह lay in repose at st. Patrick 's गिरजाघर in नई York for दो दिनों before a funeral द्रव्यमान was held on June 8.
उसके देह थी interred near उसके bhai जॉन at Arlington नेशनल कब्रिस्तान.
उसके मौत prompted the protection of presidential उम्मीदवार by the United States रहस्य सेवा.
ह्यूबर्ट humphrey went on to win the Democratic नामांकन for the presidency, but ultimately narrowly खोया the election to रिचर्ड निक्सन.
As साथ his brother जोकर 's death, Bobby 's assassination और the circumstances surrounding it have शाखित a variety of conspiracy theories.
As of 2013 Kennedy remains एक of तभी दो बैठे United राज्य सीनेटरों to be assassinated ( the अन्य होने Huey Long ).
the Modern आयु of कॉमिक किताबे is an informal name लिये the period in the इतिहास of मुख्यधारा अमरीकी कॉमिक books generally माना to पिछला from the mid-1980s जबतक उपस्थित दिन.
In इस period, कॉमिक book characters generally became गहरा और more psychologically complex, creators became better-known and active in changing the उद्योग, स्वतंत्र comics flourished, और larger प्रकाशन houses became more commercialized.
an alternate नाम for this काल is the अंधेरा आयु of Comic Books, due to the लोकप्रियता और कलाकारी influence of grim शीर्षक, such as और वॉचमेन.
जब हैरी Met सैली... is a 1989 अमरीकी रोमांटिक कॉमेडी फिल्मी लिखा by Nora Ephron and directed by Rob reiner.
it सितारों बिली Crystal as Harry और Meg रयान as Sally.
the स्टोरी फ़ॉलो the शीर्षक वर्ण इससे the समय वे meet बस पहले sharing a cross-country ड्राइव, through twelve सालो or so of chance encounters in नई York नगर.
The फिल्मी raises the question `` Can मेन and महिलाओं ever just be friends ? '' और अग्रिम अनेक ideas about संबंध that became household concepts, ऐसे as those of the `` '' girlfriend and the `` transitional व्यक्ति ''.
the origins of the film आए इससे Reiner 's return to single life बाद a divorce.
An interview Ephron conducted साथ reiner provided the आधार for Harry.
Sally was based on ephron and कुछ of उसके friends.
Crystal आए on फलक and बना उसके own योगदान to the पटकथा, making Harry funnier.
Ephron supplied the ढांचा of the फिल्मी with much of the संवाद आधारित on the real-life friendship between reiner और Crystal.
the साउंडट्रैक consists of मानकों performed by हैरी Connick, jr., साथ a बिग band और ऑर्केस्ट्रा arranged by Marc shaiman.
connick जीती his पहला Grammy Award लिये बेहतरीन Jazz Male Vocal प्रदर्शन.
Columbia Pictures released the फिल्मी using the `` मंच '' तकनीक, जिससे involved खोलने it in a few select cities, letting positive शब्द of मुँह generate ब्याज, and तब gradually expanding distribution over subsequent weeks.
जब Harry मिले सैली... grossed a total of us $ 92.8 लाख in North America.
Ephron received a British अकादमी Film Award, an Oscar nomination, and a Writers गिल्ड of अमेरिका पुरस्कार नामांकन for उसके पटकथा.
The film is ranked 23rd on एएफआई 's 100 सालो... 100 हंसते सूची of the top कॉमेडी films in अमरीकी cinema and क्रमांक 60 on Bravo 's `` 100 funniest Movies ''.
in early 2004, the फिल्मी थी adapted लिये the स्टेज in a उत्पादन starring ल्यूक Perry and alyson Hannigan.
200px
हैमबर्गर Helper is a लकीर of packaged खाना उत्पाद primarily consisting of boxed पास्ता bundled with a packet or packets of powdered sauce or seasonings.
the contents of each box हैं combined साथ browned ground बीफ, जल और मिल्क to बनाएँ a पूरा डिश.
The product लकीर भी सुविधाएँ उत्पाद साथ other starches such as राइस or potatoes बजाय of पास्ता.
It is made by General मिलों.
हालांकि the classic boxed Hamburger हेल्पर products only supply the starch item और the सॉस packets, some varieties of the उत्पाद include ground beef.
These include a frozen food line, जिससे features some of the brand 's classic किस्में in a पूरा भोजन kit form, साथ frozen ground बीफ and frozen sauce packaged separately इससे the noodles in the same थैला.
There is भी an `` तत्काल '' संस्करण of Hamburger Helper containing dehydrated meat, noodles और seasonings in a small थैली, requiring तभी जल to be added.
the Hamburger Helper mascot is the `` Helping हाथ '', an anthropomorphic एनिमेटेड, four fingered left-hand glove, which appears in the product 's television commercials and on the packages.
Ceres as देखी with the हबल Space दूरदर्शी.
It is the तभी dwarf ग्रह in the asteroid belt.
Pluto in approximate true रंग आधारित on Hubble Space दूरदर्शी albedo आंकड़ा
Haumea साथ इसके moons, hiʻiaka and Namaka ( कलाकार 's धारणा )
माकेमाके ( कलाकार 's conception )
eris और इसके चंद्रमा dysnomia as देखी with the Hubble स्पेस दूरदर्शी
a बौना planet is a planetary-mass object that is neither a ग्रह nor a satellite.
More explicitly, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Astronomical Union ( iau ) defines a बौना planet as a celestial body in direct कक्षा of the सूर्य that is विशाल पर्याप्त लिये इसके आकार to be controlled by gravitation, but that नापसंद a ग्रह has नहीं साफ इसके orbital region of other objects.
The term बौना ग्रह was अपनाया in 2006 as part of a three-way categorization of bodies orbiting the सूर्य, brought परिचय by an increase in discoveries of trans-neptunian objects that rivaled Pluto in आकार, and finally precipitated by the discovery of an even more massive ऑब्जेक्ट, Eris.
इस वर्गीकरण states कि bodies विशाल पर्याप्त to have साफ the neighbourhood of उनके कक्षा हैं defined as planets, जबकि those कि हैं नहीं विशाल पर्याप्त to be rounded by their अपना गम्भीरता हैं defined as छोटी सौर System लाशें.
बौना ग्रह come in between.
the exclusion of बौना ग्रह इससे the रोस्टर of ग्रह by the IAU has महरूम both praised और criticized ; it थी said to be the `` सही decision '' by Mike भूरा, who discovered and अन्य नई बौना ग्रह, but has महरूम rejected by एलन stern, जो था coined the term dwarf planet in 1990.
The IAU फिलहाल recognizes पाँच dwarf ग्रह in the Solar System :, प्लूटो,,, and.
However, तभी two of ये लाशें, Ceres और प्लूटो, have महरूम observed in पर्याप्त detail to demonstrate कि वे fit the परिभाषा.
Eris has महरूम स्वीकृत as a dwarf planet क्युकी it is more massive than प्लूटो.
The iau subsequently decided कि unnamed trans-neptunian वस्तुएँ with an absolute magnitude brighter than +1 ( and hence a diameter of ≥838 km assuming a geometric ऐल्बीडो of ≤1 ) are to be named अंतर्गत the assumption that they are dwarf planets.
The तभी दो ऐसे वस्तुएँ ज्ञात at the समय, माकेमाके और Haumea, went through इस naming procedure and यहूद declared to be बौना ग्रह.
It is suspected कि another hundred or so ज्ञात objects in the Solar System हैं बौना ग्रह.
Estimates हैं कि up to 200 बौना planets may be found when the entire region known as the kuiper belt is छान, and that the number may exceed 10,000 जब वस्तुएँ बिखरे outside the Kuiper belt are considered.
व्यक्तिगत खगोलशास्त्रियों recognize several of these, और in August 2011 Mike भूरा प्रकाशित a सूची of 390 candidate वस्तुएँ, ranging इससे `` nearly certain '' to `` possible '' बौना planets. '
भूरा identifies नौ known objects – the पाँच accepted by the iau प्लस,,, and – as `` virtually निश्चित '', साथ another दो dozen highly संभावित, and वहीँ हैं probably a सौ or so such वस्तुएँ in total.
the classification of bodies in अन्य planetary प्रणालियों with the विशेषताएँ of dwarf planets has नहीं महरूम addressed.
A डेबिट card ( भी known as a बैंको कार्ड or जाँच card ) is a प्लास्टिक भुगतान कार्ड that provides the cardholder electronic अभिगम to his or उसके bank खाता ( s ) at a financial संस्था.
Some ताश have a भंडारित मान with which a payment is made, while most रिले a message to the cardholder 's bank to withdraw funds इससे a payee 's designated बैंको account.
The कार्ड, where स्वीकृत, can be प्रयुक्त instead of नकदी जब बनाना purchases.
in some मामले, the primary account number is assigned exclusively लिये use on the Internet और वहीँ is no शारीरिक card.
In अनेक countries, the उपयोग of डेबिट ताश has become so फैली that उनके आवाज़ has overtaken or entirely replaced cheques और, in some उदाहरण, नकदी transactions.
The विकास of डेबिट ताश, unlike क्रेडिट ताश और चार्ज ताश, रै generally been देश विशिष्ट resulting in a क्रमांक of different systems around the संसार, which were often incompatible.
चूंकि the mid-2000s, a number of पहलों have allowed debit cards issued in एक country to be used in अन्य countries and allowed their use लिये internet and फोन purchases.
नापसंद क्रेडिट and चार्ज ताश, भुगतान using a debit कार्ड are तत्काल transferred इससे the cardholder 's designated बैंको खाता, बजाय of उन्हें paying the धन वापस at a बाद तिथि.
डेबिट cards usually also allow for तत्काल withdrawal of cash, acting as the ATM card लिये withdrawing नकदी.
Merchants may भी प्रस्ताव cashback facilities to ग्राहक, where a ग्राहक can withdraw नकदी along साथ उनके खरीदें.
francois henri `` Jack '' LaLanne ( सितंबर 26, 1914 - January 23, 2011 ) was an American फ़िटनेस, कसरत, and nutritional expert और प्रेरक स्पीकर जो is sometimes called `` the godfather of fitness '' और the `` first फ़िटनेस सुपरहीरो. ''
He वर्णित himself as होने a `` sugarholic '' और a `` junk खाना junkie '' जबतक he was 15.
he also had behavioral समस्याएं, लकिन `` turned his जीवन around '' बाद सुनना to a पब्लिक lecture by Paul Bragg, a well-known पोषण speaker.
दौरान his career, he आए to मानना कि the देश 's overall health depended on the स्वास्थ्य of इसके population, लिखने कि `` शारीरिक संस्कृति and nutrition — is the मोक्ष of अमेरिका. ''
दशकों before health and fitness began होने प्रचारित by celebrities जैसे जेन Fonda and Richard सीमन्स, lalanne was already widely पहचाना for publicly preaching the स्वास्थ्य लाभ of regular कसरत और a शुभ आहार.
he published numerous books on फ़िटनेस and hosted a फ़िटनेस television show between 1953 and 1985.
As early as 1936, at age 21, he खोली एक of the स्वदेश 's first fitness gyms in ओकलैंड, California, जिससे became a prototype लिये dozens of समान gyms using his name.
One of his 1950s television कसरत programs थी aimed toward महिलाओं, जिसको he भी encouraged to join his health clubs.
he invented a क्रमांक of exercise मशीने, सहित leg-extension and pulley डिवाइस.
Besides producing his अपना श्रेणी of वीडियो, he coached the elderly और disabled नहीं to forgo कसरत, believing it would enable them to बढ़ाएँ their शक्ति.
lalanne also gained recognition लिये उसके कामयाबी as a bodybuilder, as well as लिये his prodigious feats of strength.
अर्नाल्ड श्वार्ज़नेगर once stated, `` कि जोकर lalanne 's an animal !, '' after lalanne, at 54, ताल a 21-year-old श्वार्ज़नेगर `` badly '' in an informal प्रतियोगिता.
On the अवसर of LaLanne 's मौत, श्वार्ज़नेगर credited LaLanne for होने `` an apostle for fitness '' by प्रेरणादायी `` अरबों all over the संसार to live healthier जीवनदान, '' and, as राज्यपाल of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, had earlier लगाई उसे on his Governor 's Council on शारीरिक फ़िटनेस.
स्टीव रीव्स credited LaLanne as उसके प्रेरणा to build his muscular physique while keeping a slim कमर.
He थी inducted to the कैलिफ़ोर्निया हॉल of Fame और has a स्टार on the हॉलीवुड Walk of Fame.
Air forces of most of the countries उपयोग प्रणाली similar to Armies.
However, the RAF and the एयर forces of many राष्ट्रमंडल countries, or those formerly under a British influence, use a different नियत of ranks loosely आधारित on naval equivalents ; लेफ्टिनेंट, कमांडर, Captain और Commodore are prefixed लिये एयर फ़ोर्स उपयोग साथ उड़ान, Wing, समूह और Air, क्रमशः ( the पहला three being the units that they प्रयुक्त to कमांड ).
Penélope Cruz Sánchez ( ; born अप्रैल 28, 1974 ) is a स्पेनी अभिनेत्री.
Signed by an agent at आयु 15, she made her एक्टिंग डेब्यू at 16 on टेलीविज़न and उसके विशेषता फिल्मी डेब्यू the following year in jamón, jamón ( 1992 ), to नाजुक acclaim.
उसके subsequent roles in the 1990s और 2000s included खोलें अपना आँखें ( 1997 ), The Hi-Lo देश ( 1999 ), the लड़की of Your सपनो ( 2000 ) और स्त्री on Top ( 2000 ).
Cruz achieved recognition लिये her सीसे roles in the 2001 films Vanilla Sky और Blow.
She रै since built a कामयाब करियर, appearing in films इससे a wide दायरा of जाति, including the कॉमेडी waking up in Reno ( 2002 ), the थ्रिलर Gothika ( 2003 ), the क्रिसमस movie नोएल ( 2004 ), और the कार्रवाई adventure Sahara ( 2005 ).
She रै received नाजुक acclaim for उसके roles in volver ( 2006 ) and नौ ( 2009 ) receiving सुनहरी ग्लोब और अकादमी Award nominations लिये प्रत्येक.
वो won the अकादमी Award लिये बेहतरीन supporting Actress in 2008 लिये विक्की Cristina बार्सिलोना.
वो was the first Spanish actress in history to प्राप्त an Academy Award और the first स्पेनी actress to receive a star at the हॉलीवुड Walk of Fame.
Cruz रै modeled लिये कंपनियाँ ऐसे as आम, ralph Lauren और l'oréal.
पेनेलोपे और उसके younger sister Mónica Cruz have designed items लिये Mango.
वो has दान दोनो उसके समय and धन to धर्मार्थ.
Cruz has volunteered in युगांडा and India, where she spent one week working लिये Mother Teresa ; she donated उसके सैलरी इससे ' to सहायता fund the लेट nun 's mission.
a मोम मूर्तिकला of Cruz will be लगाई in a premier स्पॉट in the Grevin मोम संग्रहालय in पेरिस.
File एक्सप्लोरर, previously known as खिड़कियाँ एक्सप्लोरर, is a file manager अनुप्रयोग and भी a navigation औजार कि is included with releases of the microsoft खिड़कियाँ operating system from Windows 95 onwards.
It provides a आलेखीय user इंटरफ़ेस for accessing the संचिका systems.
it is also the component of the operating प्रणाली that presents अनेक user interface वस्तुएं on the मॉनिटर ऐसे as the taskbar and डेस्कटॉप.
controlling the कंप्यूटर is possible बगैर Windows Explorer running ( for उदाहरण, the File | Run कमांड in कार्य मैनेजर on nt-derived versions of Windows will फलन without it, as will commands typed in a command prompt window ).
स्तिथ in the C : \Windows directory, it is sometimes referred to as the Windows shell, explorer.exe, or बस “explorer”.
the परवाह bears हैं वर्ण निर्मित by अमरीकी बधाई in 1981 for use on ग्रीटिंग ताश.
The असली कलाकृति for the ताश was painted by artist Elena Kucharik.
in 1983, kenner turned the Care Bears into plush टेडी bears.
the परवाह bears appeared in उनके अपना tv specials पुकारा The परवाह bears in the जमीन बगैर जज्बात ( 1983 ) and the परवाह Bears Battle the Freeze यंत्र ( 1984 ).
वे भी था उनके own टेलीविज़न series from 1985 to 1988, in जोड to three विशेषता films : the परवाह bears फिल्म ( 1985 ), Care Bears Movie ii : A New पीढी ( 1986 ), और the परवाह Bears Adventure in वंडरलैंड ( 1987 ).
Each परवाह Bear आता in a different रंग and has a specialized तमगा on इसके belly कि represents its duty और personality.
This तमगा थी ज्ञात as their `` tummy symbol. ''
However, the movie परवाह Bears : Oopsy Does It ! renamed उन्हें `` पेट badges ''.
Adding to the परवाह भालू परिवार हैं the `` परवाह भालू Cousins '', जिससे विशेषता a lion, rabbit, penguin, raccoon, and अन्य ऐसे animals निर्मित in the वही style as the teddy bears.
In 2002, the bears were reintroduced with नई toys.
बना by Play-Along Toys, the new toys offered सुविधाएँ such as illuminated bellies upon touch, aerobic bears, और glow-in-the-dark bears.
as part of this comeback, the Bears have appeared in दो computer-animated movies : Care Bears : यात्रा to joke-a-lot ( 2004 ) and the परवाह bears ' बिग काश फिल्म ( 2005 ).
In 2007, the मताधिकार मनाये its 25th वर्षगांठ ; another relaunch took place, as well as the release of परवाह bears : Oopsy करता It !.
in mid-2011, ag घोषित a पुनरुद्धार tv animated श्रेणी titled `` Care bears : स्वागत to Care-a-Lot ``.
The premiere of the series utilizes `` 30 years of देखभाल ''.
it premiered on The Hub on June 2, 2012.
as of 2013, Care Bears merchandise is स्टिल being marketed.
During 2008 and 2009, Canada 's कुकी Jar समूह और फ़्रांस 's MoonScoop समूह attempted to acquire the franchise इससे AGC, with no apparent success.
अंतरराज्यीय 70 ( I-70 ) is an Interstate राजमार्ग in the United States कि runs इससे Interstate 15 near Cove फोर्ट, यूटा, to a पार्क और सवारी near Baltimore, मेरीलैंड.
it was the first अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग प्रोजेक्ट in the संयुक्त States.
i-70 approximately traces the path of u.S. रूट 40 ( और भी the old नेशनल Road ) east of the रॉकी kyu.
West of the Rockies, the route of I-70 थी निकला from multiple स्त्रोत.
I-70 is the fifth longest अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग, after i-90, I-80, I-40, and i-10.
the निर्माण of I-70 in Colorado and Utah is considered an engineering marvel as the रूट गुजरता through the आइज़नहावर Tunnel, Glenwood canyon, and the सैन राफेल Swell.
The आइज़नहावर Tunnel is the highest point साथ the अंतरराज्यीय Highway प्रणाली साथ an elevation of.
The भाग of the interstate in मिसौरी और कान्सास have laid claim to be the पहला interstate in the संयुक्त States.
हालांकि disputed, the संघीय Highway Administration रै claimed the खण्ड of i-70 through Glenwood canyon, completed in 1992, थी the last टुकड़ा of the अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग प्रणाली, as originally नियोजित, to open to traffic.
Photo of 1999 कुल eclipse
as देखी इससे the Earth, a सौर eclipse occurs जब the Moon गुजरता between the Sun और Earth, and the चंद्रमा fully or partially ब्लॉक ( `` occults `` ) the Sun.
This can happen तभी at new चंद्रमा, जब the Sun और the Moon हैं in संयोजन as देखी from Earth in an संरेखण referred to as syzygy.
in a कुल eclipse, the disk of the सूर्य is fully obscured by the Moon.
in partial and annular eclipses only part of the Sun is obscured.
If the चंद्रमा were in a perfectly circular कक्षा, a छोटी closer to the Earth, and in the same कक्षीय plane, वहीँ होता be total सौर eclipses प्रत्येक single month.
however, the Moon 's orbit is inclined ( tilted ) at अधिक than 5 डिग्री to धरती 's orbit around the सूर्य ( see ecliptic ) so its छाया at नई चंद्रमा प्रायः misses धरती.
धरती 's orbit is called the ecliptic plane as the चंद्रमा 's कक्षा must क्रॉस इस प्लेन in order लिये an ग्रहण ( both सौर as well as lunar ) to occur.
in addition, the चंद्रमा 's वास्तविक कक्षा is अंडाकार, often लेने it far पर्याप्त दूर इससे धरती कि इसके apparent size is not large enough to block the Sun totally.
The orbital planes cross each साल at a line of nodes resulting in at least दो, and up to पाँच, सौर eclipses occurring प्रत्येक साल ; no more than two of जिससे can be total eclipses.
however, कुल सौर eclipses हैं rare at any particular स्थान because totality exists only साथ a सीमित path on Earth 's सतह traced by the चंद्रमा 's छाया or umbra.
an ग्रहण is a natural घटना.
Nevertheless, in some ancient और modern संस्कृतियों, solar eclipses have महरूम attributed to supernatural कल्याणकारी or regarded as ख़राब omens.
a कुल solar ग्रहण can be frightening to people who are बेखबर of its खगोलीय स्पष्टीकरण, as the Sun seems to गायब during the day और the sky darkens in a पदार्थ of मिनट्स.
क्युकी it is dangerous to look सीधे at the Sun, observers should use खास eye protection or indirect viewing तकनीकों when viewing a partial eclipse, or the आंशिक phases of a कुल eclipse.
It is सुरक्षित to दृश्य the कुल phase of a total solar ग्रहण साथ the unaided नजर and without सुरक्षा, however.
People referred to as ग्रहण chasers or umbraphiles will travel to रिमोट locations to observe or witness पूर्वानुमानित central सौर eclipses.
a राजनैतिक party ( from, genitive partis, `` भाग '', `` portion '' ) is a राजनैतिक organization that typically seeks to influence, or entirely कंट्रोल, सरकारी policy, usually by nominating candidates साथ aligned राजनैतिक दृश्य and trying to seat them in political office.
पार्टियों participate in electoral campaigns और educational मंगवाने or protest क्रियाएँ.
Parties often espouse an ideology or vision, expressed in a party program, bolstered by a लिखा platform साथ विशिष्ट goals, forming a गठबन्धन among disparate रूचि.
The आम is a मांसल स्टोन fruit belonging to the genus Mangifera, consisting of numerous tropical fruiting पेड़ in the flowering plant परिवार Anacardiaceae.
the आम is native to South Asia, इससे जहाँ it has been वितरित विश्वव्यापी to become one of the most cultivated fruits in the tropics.
While other Mangifera species ( e.g. horse आम, M. foetida ) हैं also grown on a अधिक स्थानीयकृत basis, mangifera इंडिका – the 'common आम ' or 'इण्डियाn mango ' – is the only mango tree commonly cultivated in many tropical और subtropical regions.
it is the नेशनल fruit of India, पाकिस्तानी and Philippines.
In several संस्कृतियों, इसके फल और पत्ते are ritually प्रयुक्त as floral decorations at विवाह, पब्लिक celebrations और religious ceremonies.
Gill arnette byrd, < संदर्भ name > एचटीटीपी : //www.pro-football-reference.com/players/B/ByrdGi00.htm ( born February 20, 1961 in सैन फ्रांसिस्को, कैलिफ़ोर्निया ) is a former पेशेवर अमरीकी football खिलाड़ी.
he थी a दो time Pro Bowl cornerback in 1991 and 1992 for the San डिएगो chargers बाद graduating इससे San जोस State विश्वविद्यालयों.
Byrd was inducted into the Chargers हॉल of कीर्ति in 1998.
he was an all-city कार्यशील back और defensive वापस at Lowell ऊँची School ( San फ्रांसिस्को ), helping to सीसे the Cardinals to the नगर चैंपियनशिप in उसके senior season of 1978.
संसार map showing the tropic of Cancer
the Tropic of कर्कट, भी referred to as the Northern tropic, is the वृत्त of latitude on the धरती that marks the सबसे northerly स्थिति at जिससे the सूर्य may appear सीधे ओवरहेड at its zenith.
This इवेंट occurs once per year, at the time of the June संक्रांति, when the Northern Hemisphere is tilted toward the Sun to its maximum extent.
It फिलहाल ( Year 2013 ) lies at 23° 26′ 15.143′′ उत्तर of the equator.
इसके Southern गोलार्ध counterpart, marking the सबसे southerly position at which the Sun may appear सीधे ओवरहेड, is the tropic of Capricorn.
These tropics हैं two of the पाँच प्रमुख उपाधि measures or प्रमुख वृत्त of अक्षांश that चिह्नित मानचित्र of the Earth, besides the आर्कटिक और Antarctic वृत्त and the equator.
the positions of these वृत्त of अक्षांश ( other than the Equator ) हैं लिखवाई by the झुकाव of the Earth 's अक्ष of रोटेशन सापेक्ष to the plane of इसके orbit.
DVD-Video is a consumer video format प्रयुक्त to स्टोर digital video on DVD discs, और is फिलहाल the प्रबल consumer video format in एशिया, उत्तर America, Europe, और ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
discs using the dvd-video specification आवश्यकता a dvd ड्राइव and an H.262/MPEG-2 भाग 2 decoder ( e.g., a dvd player, or a कंप्यूटर dvd ड्राइव with a तन्त्र dvd खिलाड़ी ).
Commercial DVD फिल्मों हैं एनकोडेड using a combination of h.262/mpeg-2 भाग 2 compressed वीडियो and audio of varying स्वरुप ( प्रायः multi-channel स्वरुप as described नीचे ).
typically, the आंकड़ा रेट लिये dvd फिल्मों सीमाएँ from 3 mbit/s to 9.5 mbit/s, and the बिट रेट is usually adaptive.
it was first available लिये खुदरा around 1997.
The DVD-Video specification थी created by DVD Forum and can be obtained from dvd Format/Logo Licensing Corporation लिये a fee of $ 5,000.
The specification is not publicly उपलब्धियाँ, because प्रत्येक सदस्य must sign a non-disclosure अनुबंध.
निश्चित सूचना in the DVD किताब is proprietary and गोपनीय.
In computing और specifically अंतरजाल, a leech is एक जो benefits, usually deliberately, from others ' information or प्रयत्न but करता not offer anything in return, or makes तभी टोकन offerings in an attempt to avoid होने called a leech.
In economics, इस प्रकार of बर्ताव is पुकारा `` फ़्री riding '' और is associated with the free rider प्रॉब्लम.
Depending on context, leeching does नहीं necessarily refer to illegal उपयोग of कंप्यूटर संसाधन, लकिन प्रायः बजाय to greedy उपयोग according to तहज़ीब : to wit, using too much of कया is freely दिए without contributing a reasonable राशि back to the community कि provides it.
The नाम गर्भाशयी from the leech, an animal that झंझट रक्त और then tries to leave unnoticed.
अन्य terms are प्रयुक्त, such as `` freeloader '', लकिन जोंक is the most आम.
the full त्रिभुज logo, used in विभिन्न संस्करण इससे 1970 to 1993.
the United राज्य Postal Service ( usps ), also ज्ञात as the पोस्ट दफ्तर and U.S. Mail, is an स्वतंत्र एजेंसी of the United States संघीय government responsible लिये providing postal सेवा in the United राज्य.
It is one of the few government एजेंसियों explicitly प्राधिकृत by the United States संविधान.
The USPS traces its roots to 1775 during the Second Continental Congress, where Benjamin फ्रैंकलिन थी नियुक्त the पहला postmaster general.
the cabinet-level पोस्ट Office विभाग was निर्मित in 1792 from Franklin 's operation और transformed into its current form in 1971 under the Postal reorganization अधिनियम.
The usps employs over 574,000 workers और operates over 260,000 वाहनों.
The USPS is the operator of the largest गाडी बेड़े in the world.
the USPS is legally obligated to serve all अमेरिकी, regardless of भूगोल, at वर्दी price और quality.
The USPS रै exclusive access to अक्षर boxes marked `` u.S. मेल '' and personal letterboxes in the United States, but स्टिल competes विरूद्ध private पैकेज डिलीवरी सेवाएं, ऐसे as UPS और FedEx.
The USPS has नहीं सीधे received taxpayer-dollars चूंकि the early 1980s साथ the minor exception of subsidies लिये लागत associated with the disabled and overseas voters.
चूंकि the 2006 all-time peak मेल volume, बाद which Congress passed the डाक जवाबदेही and Enhancement Act ``, ( which mandated $ 5.5 billion per year to be paid into an खाता to pre-fund retiree health-care, 75 years into the future, a आवश्यकता अद्वितीय among संगठन और businesses in the U.S. ), आय dropped sharply due to recession-influenced declining mail volume, prompting the डाक सेवा to dekh to other sources of आय जबकि कटिंग लागत to reduce its बजट deficit.
वॉशिंगटन, D.C. has been the capital of the United राज्य चूंकि 1800.
आठ अन्य cities have served as the बैठक place लिये कॉंग्रेस and are therefore माना to have once महरूम the पूंजी of the United राज्य.
in जोड, each of the 50 U.S. राज्य और the five प्रिंसिपल territories of the United States maintains इसके अपना पूंजी.
Princess cut diamond नियत in a ring
The राजकुमारी काटें is the second सबसे लोकप्रिय काटें shape for diamonds, अगला to a round शानदार.
the face-up shape of the राजकुमारी काटें is square or rectangular and the प्रोफ़ाइल or side-on आकार is समान to that of an inverted पिरामिड साथ चार beveled sides.
The राजकुमारी काटें is a relatively new diamond काटें, having been created in the 1960s.
it has gained in लोकप्रियता in हाल years as a more distinctive alternative to the अधिक लोकप्रिय round brilliant cut, in which the शीर्ष of diamond, called the क्राउन, is cut with a गोलाकार face-up shape और the bottom, called the pavilion, is तराशा समान to a कोन.
a राजकुमारी cut साथ the वही width as the diameter of a round शानदार will तौल अधिक as it रै four किनारे जिससे would otherwise have been cut बंद और rounded to form a गोलाकार शानदार.
the राजकुमारी काटें is sometimes referred to as a square modified brilliant.
however, while displaying the वही high degree of brilliance, its faceting स्टाइल is अद्वितीय and completely different इससे that of a round brilliant.
The राजकुमारी cut had इसके origins in the early `` फ्रेंच '' cut, having a step-modified `` double-french '' or `` क्रॉस '' cut crown and a श्रेणी of unique, chevron-shaped facets in the pavilion जिससे combine to give a पृथक cross-shaped reflection when the स्टोन is viewed directly through the तालिका.
effectively, the Princess काटें combines the ऊँची degree of लाइट वापसी of a round शानदार काटें with a distinctive square or आयताकार आकार.
the square princess काटें डायमंड is प्रायः थोड़ा सस्ता than गोलाकार brilliant cut diamonds of the वही carat weight क्युकी it retains परिचय 80 % of the अशिष्ट डायमंड, as opposed to the round शानदार जिससे retains तभी about 50 % of the rough.
The क्षमता to retain अधिक क्रिस्टल वज़न makes इस आकार लोकप्रिय amongst diamond cutters.
accredited Gem Appraisers ( AGA ) and American gem Society Laboratory ( AGSL ) और European gem Laboratories-USA ( egl-usa ) are currently the तभी labs that ग्रेड the राजकुमारी काटें for cut.
There is no universal परिभाषा of कया measurements मेक an ideal princess काटें diamond and many डायमंड manufacturers मार्केट ideal ईंट with differing facet पैटर्न और कोण as `` ideal cut ''.
In contrast to the agsl, AGA, and egl-usa the Gemological संस्थान of America ( GIA ) रै stated कि there is नहीं पर्याप्त उद्योग सर्वसम्मति or अनुभवजन्य आंकड़ा to specify cut ग्रेडिंग मानकों लिये Princess cut ईंट and to do so is at the रिस्क of consumers जो may be धोखे by ईंट accompanied by unqualified Ideal or Excellent cut grades.
the name `` Princess काटें '' थी originally प्रयुक्त in कनेक्शन साथ another डायमंड cut, otherwise known as the `` प्रोफ़ाइल '' काटें, designed by Arpad nagy, a London कटर, in 1961.
The वही name was बाद used और बना popular by ygal पर्लमैन, Betzalel Ambar, and Israel itzkowitz in Israel in 1979.
a समान काटें with only 49 facets, as opposed to the original 58 facets of the राजकुमारी cut, was बाद ब्रांडेड the `` Quadrillion '' and initially distributed by ambar Diamonds in Los Angeles.
तीन years of ऑप्टिकल शोध yielded a square stone with faceting समान to that of a गोलाकार brilliant काटें डायमंड.
a तुलना
the क्रमांक of chevrons can affect the overall outlook of a राजकुमारी cut डायमंड.
इस can usually be संकल्पित by the तार diagram कि is plotted in डायमंड grading reports.
By adding अधिक chevrons on the pavilion पक्ष of the diamond, the individual facets of the diamond होगा अभी be broken bas into छोटी facets.
As a परिणाम, it can give a princess काटें डायमंड a `` crushed बर्फ '' look.
वाइस versa, when a राजकुमारी काटें diamond रै lesser chevrons, it tends to दे the diamond a चंकी आउटलुक due to broader facets.
the घरेलू dog ( Canis lupus familiaris ) is a subspecies of the gray wolf ( Canis lupus ), a सदस्य of the कैनिडाए परिवार of the mammalian अनुक्रम carnivora.
the term `` घरेलू श्वान '' is generally प्रयुक्त लिये दोनो domesticated and feral varieties.
the श्वान has been the first एनिमल to be domesticated and has महरूम the सबसे widely kept working, शिकार, और पालतु एनिमल in human history.
the word `` श्वान '' may also औसत the पुरूष of a canine species, as opposed to the word `` bitch '' for the मादा of the प्रजाति.
MtDNA evidence shows an विकासवादी विभाजित between the आधुनिक श्वान 's lineage and the modern भेड़िया 's lineage around 100,000 सालो ago but,, the oldest चट्टान specimens genetically linked to the modern dog 's lineage तिथि to approximately 33,000-36,000 सालो पहले.
कुत्तो ' value to early human hunter-gatherers led to उन्हें जल्दी becoming ubiquitous across संसार संस्कृतियों.
कुत्तो perform अनेक roles for people, ऐसे as शिकार, herding, pulling loads, सुरक्षा, assisting पुलिस और सैन्य, companionship, and, अधिक recently, aiding handicapped individuals.
This impact on इंसान समाज has given उन्हें the उपनाम `` man 's बेहतरीन dost '' in the पश्चिमी संसार.
in कुछ संस्कृतियों, कुत्तो are also a source of मांस.
in 2001, वहीँ were अनुमानित to be 400 million dogs in the world.
Most breeds of कुत्तो हैं at सबसे a few सौ years बूढ़ा, having महरूम artificially चयनित लिये particular morphologies और व्यवहार by लोगों for विशिष्ट कार्यात्मक भूमिकाएँ.
Through इस चयनात्मक प्रजनन, the श्वान रै developed into hundreds of varied breeds, and shows अधिक behavioral and morphological विभिन्नता than any अन्य land mammal.
लिये example, height measured to the withers ranges from in the Chihuahua to about in the आयरिश wolfhound ; color varies इससे श्वेत through grays ( usually called `` ब्लू '' ) to ब्लैक, and भूरा इससे लाइट ( tan ) to अंधेरा ( `` रेड '' or `` chocolate '' ) in a चौड़ी विभिन्नता of पैटर्न ; coats can be छोटी or long, coarse-haired to wool-like, straight, घुंघराले, or smooth.
it is आम for most breeds to शेड this coat.
आरेख of a हस्तांतरण electron microscope
a 1973 siemens इलेक्ट्रॉन microscope, musée देस कला et Métiers, पेरिस
An electron सूक्ष्मदर्शी ( EM ) is a प्रकार of सूक्ष्मदर्शी कि उपयोग an इलेक्ट्रॉन beam to illuminate a specimen and produce a magnified चित्र.
an em has वृहद resolving power than a light microscope and can खुलासा the ढांचा of छोटी objects because electrons have wavelengths परिचय 100,000 टाइम्स shorter than visible light photons.
वे can achieve बेहतर than 50 pm रेज़ोल्यूशन और magnifications of up to about 10,000,000x whereas ordinary, non-confocal light microscopes are limited by diffraction to परिचय 200 nm रेज़ोल्यूशन और उपयोगी magnifications नीचे 2000x.
the electron सूक्ष्मदर्शी uses electrostatic and electromagnetic lenses to control the electron बीम और focus it to form an image.
ये electron ऑप्टिकल lenses are analogous to the कांच lenses of a लाइट ऑप्टिकल सूक्ष्मदर्शी.
Electron microscopes are प्रयुक्त to investigate the ultrastructure of a चौड़ी दायरा of biological और अकार्बनिक नमूनों सहित microorganisms, cells, large molecules, biopsy samples, metals, and crystals.
Industrially, the electron microscope is प्रायः प्रयुक्त लिये विशेषता कंट्रोल और failure analysis.
Modern electron microscopes उपज इलेक्ट्रॉन micrographs, using specialized digital cameras or फ़्रेम grabbers to capture the image.
Popeyes Louisiana रसोईघर is a कड़ी of fried chicken fast खाना रेस्तरां founded in 1972 in New ऑरलियन्स, louisiana.
Often referred to as popeyes और sometimes as popeyes Chicken & Biscuits or Popeyes Chicken & seafood, it थी acquired by sandy स्रोतों, जॉर्जिया -based afc Enterprises, originally अमेरिका 's Favorite मुर्गा कम्पनी, in 1993.
according to a company दबायें रिलीज dated जून 29, 2007, popeyes is the second-largest `` quick-service chicken रेस्तरां group, measured by क्रमांक of units '', साथ अधिक than 1,800 रेस्तरां in more than 40 राज्य and the ज़िला of Columbia, और over 22 countries विश्वव्यापी including तुर्कों, Northern Cyprus, Bahrain, China, हांग Kong, इराकी, इंडोनेशिया, जॉर्डन, कुवैत, संयुक्त Arab Emirates, Japan, Malaysia, Saudi अरब, South कोरियाई, सिंगापुर, कनाडा, जमैका, गुयाना, सूरीनाम, मैक्सिको, त्रिनिदाद, प्यूर्टो Rico, होंडुरास, वियतनाम, पनामा, पेरू, और Costa Rica.
परिचय तीस स्थितियाँ हैं company-owned, the बाकी franchised.
the leg दबायें is a weight training exercise in जिससे the व्यक्तिगत pushes a वज़न or resistance दूर from उन्हें using उनके टाँगे.
The पद leg दबायें भी refers to the apparatus प्रयुक्त to perform इस कसरत.
the लेग press can be प्रयुक्त to evaluate an athlete 's overall lower देह strength ( from knee संयुक्त to hip ).
using the diagonal sled-type लेग press machine.
वहीँ हैं दो प्रमुख types of लेग press:
the तिर्यक or लंबवत 'sled ' प्रकार leg press.
Weight disks ( plates ) हैं संलग्न सीधे to the sled, which is आरोहित on rails.
the उपयोक्ता sits below the sled और pushes it upward with उनके फीट.
These मशीने normally include adjustable safety कोष्ठक that prevent the उपयोक्ता इससे being trapped अंतर्गत the वज़न.
the 'cable ' प्रकार लेग press, or 'seated लेग दबायें ', commonly मिला on multigyms.
The user sits कतरा और pushes forward साथ their फीट onto a plate that is संलग्न to the वज़न stack by अर्थात् of a long steel cable.
वेन्डी विलियम्स शिकारी ( born वेन्डी Joan Williams ; जुलाई 18, 1964 ) is an अमरीकी मीडिया व्यक्तित्व, अभिनेत्री और लेखक.
She hosts a syndicated television बात show, the वेन्डी विलियम्स दिखाएँ.
Prior to television, Williams was a `` shock jockette `` on several रेडियो shows.
Williams has gained notoriety for her on-air spats साथ celebrities.
वो थी the subject of the 2006 VH1 reality tv श्रेणी पुकारा the Wendy विलियम्स अनुभव which broadcast कार्यक्रम surrounding उसके रेडियो show.
वो has written an autobiography and अनेक अन्य किताबे, और रै created a उत्पाद लकीर called Adorn by वेन्डी विलियम्स.
पैट्रिक Henry `` देशद्रोह '' वाक पहले the House of Burgesses in an 1851 painting by पीटर F. rothermel
`` Give me स्वतंत्रता, or give me death ! '' is a quotation attributed to Patrick हेनरी from a speech he बना to the वर्जिनिया सम्मेलन.
On that day, at st. John 's Church in रिचमंड, Virginia, और is credited with having swung the संतुलन in convincing the Virginia हाउस of Burgesses to pass a रेज़ोल्यूशन delivering the Virginia troops to the Revolutionary War.
among the delegates to the convention यहूद future US Presidents थामस जेफरसन and George वॉशिंगटन.
Newfoundland और Labrador (, locally ) is the easternmost province of कनाडा.
situated in the country 's अटलांटिक region, it incorporates the island of Newfoundland and मेनलैंड labrador to the उत्तरपश्चिम, with a combined क्षेत्रफल of.
In 2011, the province 's जनसांख्यिकी was 514,536.
Approximately 92 प्रतिशत of the प्रांत 's population lives on the Island of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड ( सहित its संबद्ध छोटी islands ), of जिससे more than हाफ live on the avalon Peninsula.
the प्रांत is कनाडा 's सबसे linguistically homogenous, with 97.6 % of निवासियों reporting अंग्रेज़ी ( न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड English ) as उनके mother tongue in the 2006 जनसांख्यिकी ;.
Historically, Newfoundland was भी घर to अद्वितीय किस्में of फ्रेंच, and आयरिश, as खूब as the now-extinct beothuk भाषा.
In labrador, लोकल dialects of innu-aimun और Inuktitut are also spoken.
न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड and labrador 's capital और largest city, St. जॉन 's, is कनाडा 's 20th-largest Census Metropolitan Area, और is home to लगभग 40 प्रतिशत of the province 's जनसांख्यिकी.
St. जॉन 's is the seat of सरकारी, home to the हाउस of Assembly of Newfoundland and labrador और the उच्चतम अदालत in the क्षेत्राधिकार, the न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और Labrador Court of अपील.
A पूर्व उपनिवेश और डोमिनियन of the United किंगडम, न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और Labrador became the tenth province to enter the Canadian कनफेडरेशन on March 31, 1949, as न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड.
on December 6, 2001, an amendment थी बना to the Constitution of कनाडा to change the प्रांत 's आधिकारिक नाम to Newfoundland और Labrador.
in day-to-day वार्तालाप, however, Canadians generally स्टिल refer to the province itself as न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और to the region on the कनाडाई मेनलैंड as Labrador.
Theodore `` t.r. ''
रूज़वेल्ट, Jr. ( ; अक्तूबर 27, 1858—January 6, 1919 ) थी the 26th President of the United राज्य ( 1901–1909 ).
He is noted लिये उसके exuberant व्यक्तित्व, range of रूचि and achievements, and उसके नेतृत्व of the Progressive गति, as well as his `` काउंटी `` persona और मजबूत masculinity.
he थी a leader of the रिपब्लिकन Party and संस्थापक of the first अवतार of the short-lived Progressive ( `` Bull Moose '' ) Party of 1912.
पहले becoming अध्यक्ष, he held कार्यालयों at the नगर, राज्य, and संघीय स्तर.
रूज़वेल्ट 's achievements as a naturalist, एक्सप्लोरर, hunter, author, और soldier are as much a भाग of his fame as कोई दफ्तर he held as a politician.
Roosevelt was 42 years old जब sworn in as अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य in 1901, making उसे the youngest अध्यक्ष ever ; he ताल आउट the youngest elected अध्यक्ष, जॉन F. Kennedy, by only one year.
Roosevelt was also the पहला of only तीन बैठे राष्ट्रपतियों to have जीती the Nobel सलाम Prize.
the Teddy भालू is named after him, despite his अवमानना लिये being पुकारा `` टेडी ''.
Born into a धनवान परिवार in नई यॉर्क नगर, Roosevelt थी a sickly चाइल्ड who suffered from asthma and stayed at home अध्ययन natural इतिहास.
To overcome उसके physical weakness, he embraced a ज़ोरदार जीवन.
Home-schooled, he became an eager छात्र of प्रकृति.
He attended हार्वर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों, where he पढ़ाई biology, boxed and विकसित an interest in नवल अफेयर्स.
in 1881, एक साल आउट of हार्वर्ड, he was elected to the New यॉर्क राज्य सभा, जहाँ he became a नेता of the सुधार गुट of his रिपब्लिकन Party ( the `` gop '' ).
उसके the नवल War of 1812 ( 1882 ) स्थापित his पेशेवर प्रतिष्ठा as a गंभीर historian ; he लिखा numerous किताबे on शिकार, the बाहरी, और वर्तमान political issues, as खूब as frontier history.
in 1884, उसके पहला wife और उसके mother died on the वही day.
He temporarily left politics and गई to the frontier, becoming a rancher in the `` Badlands '' in the dakotas.
Returning to नई York नगर, he भागा लिये महापौर in 1886, finishing third with 60,000 मत.
He बाद gained fame by taking vigorous charge of the नगर police.
at the नेशनल स्तर, he was a नेता in सिविल सेवा सुधार.
The spanish–american युद्ध broke out in 1898 while Roosevelt was, effectively, running the विभाग of the Navy.
he promptly resigned और formed the अशिष्ट Riders – a स्वयंसेवी प्यादे regiment कि fought in Cuba.
the war hero was elected राज्यपाल in 1898 और in 1900 was nominated for वाइस अध्यक्ष.
He सफलतापूर्वक energized the GOP base as a highly दृश्य campaigner to reelect अध्यक्ष William mckinley on a platform of high tariffs, the gold मानक, साम्राज्यवाद, prosperity at घर and विजय विदेश.
In 1901, अध्यक्ष William mckinley was assassinated and रूज़वेल्ट became अध्यक्ष.
he attempted to मूव the Republican पार्टी ( gop ) toward Progressivism, including trust busting and increased विनियमन of व्यवसायों.
रूज़वेल्ट became the first person निर्वाचित to a पद in उसके अपना right in 1904 after having ascended to the Presidency ( from the vice-presidency ) upon the मौत of उसके पूर्ववर्ती, जीतना the largest percentage of the लोकप्रिय vote since the uncontested चुनाव of 1820.
रूज़वेल्ट coined the phrase `` Square Deal `` to describe उसके घरेलू agenda, emphasizing कि the औसत citizen would मिलेंगी a fair share under his policies.
as an outdoorsman और naturalist, he promoted the conservation गति.
On the world स्टेज, Roosevelt 's policies यहूद characterized by his slogan, `` Speak softly और carry a big स्टिक ``.
a cousin is a सापेक्ष साथ whom a व्यक्ति shares one or more आम ancestor ( s ) ( अन्य than a जनक, child/descendant, sibling, child/descendant of a सहोदर, or सहोदर of a parent/ancestor ).
however in आम parlance, `` cousin '' सामान्यतः specifically अर्थात् `` पहला cousin ''.
प्रणालियों of `` डिग्री '' और `` removals '' हैं प्रयुक्त in the english-speaking world to describe the exact relationship between दो cousins ( in the broad sense ) and the पूर्वज they have in आम.
विभिन्न सरकारी entities have established systems for विधिक उपयोग that can more precisely specify kinships with common पूर्वजो मौजूदा any क्रमांक of पीढियां in the पास्ट, हालांकि आम usage प्रायः eliminates the degrees और removals और refers to people with आम ancestry as simply `` distant cousins '' or `` relatives ''.
वेबस्टर is an American situation comedy that aired on एबीसी from सितंबर 16, 1983 जबतक may 8, 1987, and in first-run syndication from September 21, 1987 जबतक March 10, 1989.
the श्रेणी was निर्मित by Stu Silver.
the show stars Emmanuel लुईस in the title भूमिका as a यंग लड़के who, after खोने उसके parents, is अपनाया by his एनएफएल -pro गॉडफादर, portrayed by Alex Karras, and उसके नई socialite बीवी, निभाई by सुसान क्लार्क.
The focus थी largely on how इस impulsively married couple था to समायोजन to their नई जीवनदान and अचानक parenthood, but it थी the अनुकूल वेबस्टर खुद जो drove much of the plot.
The series थी produced by Georgian खाड़ी ltd., Emmanuel Lewis entertainment उद्यमों, Inc. ( 1986-1989 ) और सर्वोपरि टेलीविज़न.
Like एनबीसी 's पहले hit Diff'rent Strokes, वेबस्टर प्रदर्शित a यंग african-american लड़के adopted by a श्वेत परिवार.
Three types of cell division
Cell प्रभाग is the process by जिससे a जनक कोशिका divides into दो or more बेटी कोशिकाएं.
कोशिका division usually occurs as भाग of a larger कोशिका cycle.
in eukaryotes, there हैं two पृथक प्रकार of कोशिका division : a vegetative division, whereby each बेटी cell is genetically एकसमान to the parent cell ( समसूत्रण ), और a reductive कोशिका division, whereby the क्रमांक of गुणसूत्रों in the बेटी कोशिकाएं is घटाया by half, to produce haploid गैमीट ( meiosis ).
दोनो of these कोशिका प्रभाग cycles हैं जरूरी in sexually reproducing जीवों at कुछ पाइंट in उनके life साईकिल, और दोनो are believed to be present in the पिछला eukaryotic common पूर्वज Prokaryotes भी undergo a vegetative कोशिका प्रभाग known as binary fission, where their जेनेटिक सामग्री is segregated equally into two daughter cells.
All कोशिका विभाजन, regardless of सजीव, are preceded by a single गोलाकार of डीएनए replication.
For सरल unicellular जीवों such as the amoeba, one cell division is equivalent to reproduction – an संपूर्ण new organism is निर्मित.
on a larger scale, mitotic cell division can create progeny इससे बहुकोशिकीय जीवों, ऐसे as पौधे कि grow इससे cuttings.
Cell प्रभाग भी enables sexually reproducing organisms to develop from the one-celled zygote, which itself थी उत्पादित by कोशिका division from गैमीट.
और बाद growth, कोशिका प्रभाग allows for continual construction और मरम्मत of the organism.
a human being 's body अनुभवों about 10,000 खरब कोशिका divisions in a आजीवन.
कोशिका division has महरूम modeled by परिमित subdivision rules.
the प्राथमिक concern of cell प्रभाग is the मेंटेनेंस of the original cell 's genome.
Before division can occur, the genomic information that is भंडारित in गुणसूत्रों जरूर be replicated, and the duplicated genome जरूर be अलग cleanly between कोशिकाएं.
A ग्रेट deal of cellular अवसंरचना is involved in keeping genomic information सतत between `` generations ''.
पहाड़ ranges of मैसाचुसेट्स, संयुक्त राज्य.
हावर्ड जोन्स ( born John Howard Jones, 23 February 1955, Southampton, Hampshire, England ) is a अंग्रेजों संगीतकार, सिंगर और songwriter.
According to the Guinness किताब of British hit singles & एल्बम, `` जोन्स is an accomplished singer-songwriter जो थी a regular चार्ट visitor in the mid-1980s with his brand of synthpop.
जोन्स, who थी equally लोकप्रिय in the u.S., appeared at Live Aid ``.
Allmusic journalist, Stephen थामस erlewine adds, `` जोन्स was एक of the धमक आंकड़े of mid-1980s synthpop.
उसके music मिलाया the प्रौद्योगिकी intensive ध्वनि of New वेव with the cheery आशावाद of hippies और late 1960s pop.
जोन्स racked up a string of hits in the मिड and late 1980s, पहले he retreated into being a cult फिगर in the 1990s ''.
the International Isle of Man tt ( पर्यटक Trophy ) रेस is a motorcycle रेसिंग इवेंट held on the Isle of man and was for अनेक सालो the सबसे prestigious motorcycle रेस in the world.
the इवेंट was भाग of the fim मोटरसाइकिल Grand Prix World Championship during the period 1949–1976 पहले होने transferred to the United किंगडम बाद safety चिंताएं and run by the fim as the अंग्रेजों ग्रैंड Prix for the 1977 ऋतु.
the आइल of man tt Races became part of the TT Formula 1 Championship from 1977 to 1990 to preserve the event 's रेसिंग औकात.
From 1989 the रेसिंग has been developed by the आइल of man Department of पर्यटन as the Isle of man TT पर्व.
the race is run in a time-trial format on पब्लिक सड़कें बंद for रेसिंग by the provisions of an अधिनियम of Tynwald ( the पार्लियामेंट of the आइल of man ).
The पहला race थी आयोजित on Tuesday 28 may 1907 और थी called the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Auto-Cycle Tourist Trophy.
the इवेंट was संगठित by the Auto-Cycle क्लबों over 10 गोद of the St John 's छोटी Course of 15 मील 1,470 गज for road-legal touring motorcycles with exhaust silencers, saddles, pedals और mud-guards.
the winner of the single-cylinder class, and overall विजेता of the first event in 1907, थी Charlie Collier सवारी a Matchless motorcycle in a समय of 4 घंटों, 8 minutes and 8 seconds at an average रेस speed of 38.21 mph.
the winner of the twin-cylinder class was rem Fowler riding a Peugeot एंजिन नॉर्टन in a time of 4 घंटों 21 minutes और 52 seconds at an average रेस गति of 36.21 mph.
The ट्रॉफी presented to Charlie Collier as the winner of the 1907 आइल of man TT रेस, थी दान by the Marquis de mouzilly st. मंगल.
It प्रदर्शित a stylised संस्करण of Olympic God hermes by Giovanni da Bologna as a चांदी figurine astride a winged व्हील.
The ट्रॉफी थी similar in design to the 18 कैरेट सुनहरा montague Trophy presented to जॉन नेपियर ( Arrol-Johnston ) as the inaugural विजेता of the Isle of Man पर्यटक Trophy car race in 1905 अभी ज्ञात as the rac Tourist Trophy.
The Marquis de Mouzilly St. Mars Trophy is now प्रस्तुत annually to the winner of the Isle of Man वरिष्ठ TT Motor-Cycle Race.
The 2007 Isle of Man tt was the centenary event which भागा between 26 may and 8 June 2007 और प्रदर्शित a खास Re-enactment of the 1907 आइल of man tt रेस आयोजित on the village green अगला to Tynwald हिल in st John 's on Monday 28 may 2007.
the विंटेज परेड of 100 क्लासिक motorcycles for the Centenary re-enactment on the असली st जॉन 's छोटी Course थी flagged away by former World motor-cycle Champion ज्यॉफ ड्यूक.
the पहला of the भागीदार to be flagged away थी the recently लौटी twin-cylinder Peugeot-Norton ridden by Rem Fowler during the पहला आइल of man TT Race in 1907.
भी participating in the 2007 Re-enactment थी tt race competitor guy Martin सवारी a 1938 Triumph बाघ 100 500 cc और अन्य former TT competitors including एलन Cathcart, सैमी Miller, Nick jefferies and मिक Grant भी समाप्त the re-enactment गोद.
upright=1.15
बेरोजगारी ( or joblessness ) occurs जब people हैं without work and actively seeking work.
the बेरोजगारी रेट is a माप of the prevalence of बेरोजगारी and it is calculated as a प्रतिशत by dividing the number of बेरोजगार individuals by all individuals currently in the मजदूर force.
During periods of मंदी, an अर्थव्यवस्था प्रायः experiences a अपेक्षाकृत ऊँची unemployment रेट.
according to अंतरराष्ट्रीय श्रमिक Organization report, अधिक than 197 million लोगों globally are आउट of कार्य or 6 % of the world 's workforce यहूद बगैर a job in 2012.
There remains considerable सैद्धांतिक बहस regarding the causes, consequences and समाधान लिये बेरोजगारी.
शास्त्रीय economics, नई classical अर्थशास्त्र, and the Austrian School of अर्थशास्त्र argue that market mechanisms हैं विश्वसनीय means of resolving बेरोजगारी.
These theories argue against interventions imposed on the मजदूर market from the outside, ऐसे as unionization, न्यूनतम मजदूरी laws, कर, और अन्य regulations कि they अर्जी discourage the hiring of workers.
keynesian अर्थशास्त्र emphasizes the cyclical nature of बेरोजगारी and अनुशंसा government interventions in the economy that it दावा होगा reduce unemployment दौरान recessions.
इस theory focuses on तूल झटके that एकाएक reduce aggregate माँग लिये goods और services और यूँ reduce demand लिये मजदूर.
Keynesian models recommend सरकारी interventions designed to increase demand लिये workers ; these can include वित्तीय stimuli, publicly वित्तपोषित job creation, और expansionist monetary नीतियों.
In addition to these comprehensive theories of unemployment, वहीँ are a few categorizations of unemployment कि are used to more precisely model the effects of बेरोजगारी within the economic प्रणाली.
The main प्रकार of unemployment include संरचनात्मक बेरोजगारी जिससे focuses on संरचनात्मक समस्याएं in the economy और inefficiencies inherent in labour markets, सहित a mismatch between the सप्लाई और माँग of laborers साथ जरुरी कौशल सेट.
संरचनात्मक वितर्क emphasize causes and solutions सम्बन्धित to विघटनकारी technologies and globalization.
चर्चाएँ of frictional बेरोजगारी फ़ोकस on voluntary decisions to कार्य based on प्रत्येक individuals ' valuation of उनके own work and कैसा कि compares to वर्तमान wage rates प्लस the time and प्रयत्न जरूरी to ढूँढें a job.
Causes और solutions for frictional unemployment प्रायः address जॉब entry दहलीज और मजदूरी rates.
Behavioral economists हाइलाइट individual biases in decision बनाना, and often involve समस्याएं and solutions concerning sticky मजदूरी और दक्षता मजदूरी.
Collectivism is any philosophic, राजनैतिक, धार्मिक, आर्थिक, or social outlook that emphasizes the interdependence of every human being in a समाज or civilization.
Collectivism is a basic cultural element that exists as the reverse of व्यक्तिगत in human nature ( in the वही way high कॉन्टेक्स्ट संस्कृति exists as the रिवर्स of low कॉन्टेक्स्ट culture ).
Collectivist orientations stress the importance of cohesion within सोशल समूह ( ऐसे as an `` in-group '', in what specific कॉन्टेक्स्ट it is defined ) and in कुछ cases, the priority of समूह goals over व्यक्तिगत goals.
Collectivists प्रायः focus on community, society, स्वदेश or country.
It has been used as an तत्व in many different और विविध प्रकार of सरकारी और political, आर्थिक और शैक्षणिक तत्त्वज्ञान throughout history and most इंसान समाजों in अभ्यास contain elements of both व्यक्तिगत and collectivism.
कुछ उदाहरण of collectivist संस्कृतियों शामिल इण्डिया और जापानी.
collectivism can be divided into horizontal collectivism and vertical collectivism.
Horizontal collectivism तनावों सामूहिक decision-making among बराबर individuals, and is thus प्रायः based on decentralization and समतावाद.
लंबवत collectivism is आधारित on hierarchical structures of power and on moral और cultural conformity, और is therefore आधारित on centralization और पदानुक्रम.
a सहकारी enterprise would be an उदाहरण of आड़ा collectivism, whereas a military पदानुक्रम होता be an example of लंबवत collectivism.
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis ( adem ) is an प्रतिरक्षा mediated बीमारी of the brain.
It प्रायः occurs following a viral संक्रमण but may appear following टीकाकरण, bacterial or parasitic संक्रमण, or even appear अनायास.
As it involves असंक्राम्य demyelination, it is समान to multiple sclerosis, और is considered part of the अनेक sclerosis borderline diseases.
The incidence rate is about 8 per 1,000,000 लोगों प्रति साल.
Although it occurs in सब ages, सबसे reported cases हैं in children and adolescents, साथ the average age around 5 to 8 सालो बूढ़ा.
The मृत्यु रेट may be as ऊँची as 5 %, पूरा रिकवरी is देखी in 50 to 75 % of cases, while up to 70 to 90 % recover with कुछ minor अवशेष विकलांगता.
The average time to रिकवर is one to छह months.
ADEM produces अनेक inflammatory lesions in the दिमाग and spinal cord, particularly in the white matter.
प्रायः ये are मिला in the subcortical और सेंट्रल श्वेत matter and cortical gray-white जंक्शन of both cerebral hemispheres, cerebellum, brainstem, और स्पाइनल cord, लकिन periventricular white matter और gray matter of the cortex, thalami and basal ganglia may भी be शामिल.
जब the रोगी पीड़ित अधिक than one demyelinating episode, it is called तूल disseminated encephalomyelitis or multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis ( mdem ).
the पेट is a muscular, hollow, dilated part of the पाचन प्रणाली which कृत्यों as an महत्वपूर्ण अंग of the digestive ट्रैक्ट in कुछ पशु, including vertebrates, echinoderms, कीट ( mid-gut ), और molluscs.
it is शामिल in the दूसरी phase of digestion, following mastication ( चबाने ).
The पेट is located between the esophagus and the small आंत.
it secretes protein-digesting एंजाइमों पुकारा protease और दमदार acids to सहायता in food पाचन, ( sent to it via esophageal peristalsis ) through smooth muscular contortions ( पुकारा segmentation ) before sending partially digested food ( chyme ) to the छोटी आंतों.
The word stomach is derived from the Latin stomachus which is निकला from the यूनानी word stomachos ( στόμαχος ), ultimately from stoma ( ), `` मुँह ''.
The words gastro- and gastric ( meaning सम्बन्धित to the stomach ) are दोनो derived इससे the Greek शब्द gaster ( ).
1940 pontiac खास Series 25 Woodie
a woodie is a car body स्टाइल, especially a स्टेशन wagon, जहाँ the rear bodywork is constructed of wood फ्रेमवर्क with infill panels of wood or painted मेटल.
After the demise of actual wood construction, manufacturers used अनुकरण woodgrain चादर vinyl—sometimes augmented with three-dimensional, अनुकरण framework—to recall wood construction.
in 2008, लकडी निर्माण was जगाई abstractly on the घाट फ्लेक्स साथ a series of पक्ष और rear horizontal डोले.
a pearl is a hard ऑब्जेक्ट produced within the soft tissue ( specifically the mantle ) of a जीना shelled mollusc.
बस जैसे the शेल of a clam, a पर्ल is बना up of कैल्सियम carbonate in minute crystalline form, which has been deposited in केंद्रिय layers.
the आदर्श pearl is perfectly गोलाकार और चिकना, but अनेक other आकार of मोती ( baroque pearls ) occur.
The finest quality natural pearls have been highly valued as gemstones और वस्तुएँ of beauty for many सदियां, and because of this, the word pearl रै become a metaphor लिये something very rare, fine, admirable, और valuable.
the सबसे valuable मोती occur spontaneously in the wild, लकिन वे हैं अत्यधिक rare.
These wild pearls are referred to as natural pearls.
Cultured or farmed मोती from पर्ल oysters and freshwater mussels मेक up the majority of those that हैं फिलहाल sold.
Imitation pearls हैं भी widely बेची in inexpensive jewelry, but the विशेषता of उनके iridescence is usually बहुत poor, and often, कृत्रिम मोती हैं easily distinguished इससे genuine मोती.
Pearls have महरूम harvested and cultivated primarily लिये उपयोग in आभूषण, लकिन in the past they were भी stitched onto lavish clothing.
मोती have also महरूम कुचल और used in cosmetics, दवाइयाँ, and in paint formulations.
Whether जंगली or cultured, gem quality मोती are लगभग always nacreous and, as is the interior of the शेल that produces उन्हें.
however, almost सब species of shelled molluscs are सक्षम of producing pearls ( formally referred to as `` calcareous concretions '' by some sources ) of lesser shine or less गोलाकार shape.
Although these may also be legitimately referred to as `` मोती '' by gemological लैब्स and भी under u.S. संघीय व्यापार Commission नियम, and हैं formed in the वही रास्ता, most of उन्हें have no value, except as curiosities.
Bing ( known previously as Live Search, खिड़कियाँ सजीव Search, और एमएसएन Search ) is a web search इंजन ( advertised as a `` decision इंजन `` ) इससे microsoft.
bing थी unveiled by Microsoft CEO स्टीव Ballmer on may 28, 2009 at the सब Things डिजिटल सम्मेलन in सैन Diego लिये release on June 1.
notable परिवर्तन शामिल the लिस्टिंग of ढूंढें सुझाव while प्रश्नों are डाला and a सूची of related खोज ( called `` Explore फलक '' ) आधारित on semantic प्रौद्योगिकी इससे powerset which microsoft purchased in 2008.
On जुलाई 29, 2009, Microsoft और याहू ! घोषित a सौदे in जिससे bing होता power याहू ! Search.
सब Yahoo ! ढूंढें global customers and partners हैं expected to have made the transition by जल्दी 2012.
in अक्तूबर 2011, bing announced it थी working on new back-end ढूंढें अवसंरचना, with the goal of delivering तेज़ और slightly अधिक relevant search results लिये users.
Known as `` बाघ '', the नई index-serving प्रौद्योगिकी has been incorporated into Bing globally, since August 2011.
In May 2012, bing घोषित another redesign of इसके search इंजन कि includes `` Sidebar '', a सोशल feature कि खोज उपयोक्ता ' सोशल networks लिये information प्रासंगिक to the ढूंढें query.
A diagram showing an i गठन on offense and a 4-3 गठन on रक्षा
in अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल, प्रत्येक टोली has ग्यारह खिलाड़ी on the फ़ील्ड at एक time.
The विशिष्ट role that a player takes on the फ़ील्ड is called उनके स्थिति.
Under the आधुनिक rules of American फ़ुटबॉल, teams हैं अनुमत असीमित subsititutions, that is teams may बदलें कोई number of खिलाड़ी बाद कोई खेल.
इस रै resulted in the विकास of three `` platoons '' of players, the ठोकर ( the टोली with the ball, जो is trying to score ), the defense ( the टोली trying to prevent the other team from scoring, and to take the ball from उन्हें ), और the special teams ( who play in kicking परिस्थितियों ).
भीतर those platoons, various विशिष्ट positions exist depending on कया the player 's main जॉब is.
the आयरिश लोगों ( or na hÉireannaigh ; Ulster-Scots : Airish fowk ) हैं an जातीय समूह who originate in आयरलैंड, an island in northwestern Europe.
आयरलैंड has been populated लिये around 9,000 सालो ( according to पुरातत्व studies, see प्रागैतिहासिक Ireland ).
The Irish लोगों 's earliest पूर्वजो are recorded in महापुरूष – they are claimed to be descended इससे groups such as the nemedians, Fomorians, Fir bolg, Tuatha Dé Danann और the milesians.
Lebor gabála Érenn, a book of Irish mythology tells कि Milesians were स्काइथियन वंशजों.
The प्रमुख समूह कि interacted with the Irish in the Middle आयु include the picts, स्कॉट्स, and the Vikings.
due to इस सम्पर्क, icelanders are noted लिये having some Irish descent.
The Anglo-Norman आक्रमण of the High मध्य आयु, the English बागानों and the subsequent English नियम of the देश introduced the Normans और फ्लेमिश into Ireland.
Welsh, Picts, bretons, और छोटी पार्टियों of Gauls और भी anglo-saxons are known in आयरलैंड from much earlier टाइम्स.
There have been अनेक notable आयरिश लोगों throughout इतिहास.
The 6th century आयरिश monk and missionary Columbanus is regarded as one of the `` fathers of यूरोपीय '', followed by kilian of würzburg and vergilius of Salzburg.
The वैज्ञानिक Robert Boyle is माना the `` father of chemistry ``.
प्रसिद्ध Irish explorers include Brendan the नाविक, Robert McClure, अर्नेस्ट Shackleton और Tom Crean.
By some खाते, the पहला European child born in North America had आयरिश descent on दोनो sides ; and an irishman was the first यूरोपीय to नियत foot on अमरीकी मृदा in Columbus ' expedition of 1492.
There are descendants of आयरिश लोगों जीना in many western देशों, particularly in English-speaking देशों.
Historically, emigration has महरूम caused by politics, अकाल and आर्थिक मुद्दे.
An estimated 50 to 80 लाख लोगों हैं descendants of Irish लोगों, primarily in the संयुक्त किंगडम, the United States, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Canada and Iceland ; there are भी छोटी संख्याएँ in Argentina, चिली, Mexico, जमैका, Barbados, दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी, नई Zealand, फ़्रांस, जर्मनी और ब्राज़ील.
the largest number of descendants of Irish people live in the United राज्य.
the number of लोगों जीना in Australia जो are of आयरिश descent is higher, as a percentage of कुल जनसांख्यिकी, than that of any अन्य देश.
लगभग forty प्रतिशत of the उपनिवेश population of आइसलैंड came from Ireland or स्कॉटलैंड.
the बहुत पहला inhabitants of Iceland यहूद Irish.
The Hubble स्पेस दूरदर्शी ( hst ) is a स्पेस telescope that थी carried into कक्षा by a Space Shuttle in 1990 और remains in आपरेशन.
A aperture telescope in कम Earth orbit, हबल 's four प्रमुख यंत्र observe in the निकट पराबैंगनी, दृश्य, and near इन्फ्रारेड.
the दूरदर्शी is नामित after the astronomer एडविन हबल.
हबल 's कक्षा outside the distortion of Earth 's माहौल allows it to take अत्यधिक sharp बिंब साथ लगभग no background light.
हबल 's गहन फ़ील्ड have महरूम some of the सबसे detailed visible-light images कभी, allowing a गहन दृश्य into स्पेस and समय.
अनेक हबल observations have led to breakthroughs in astrophysics, such as accurately determining the रेट of expansion of the universe.
Although नहीं the पहला स्पेस telescope, हबल is one of the largest और most versatile, और is well known as दोनो a vital शोध औजार and a पब्लिक relations बून for खगोलशास्त्र.
the hst was built by the United States स्पेस agency NASA, with योगदान इससे the यूरोपीय Space एजेंसी, और is operated by the स्पेस Telescope Science Institute.
the hst is एक of NASA 's ग्रेट Observatories, साथ with the Compton Gamma Ray वेधशाला, the Chandra x-ray वेधशाला, and the Spitzer स्पेस दूरदर्शी.
स्पेस telescopes यहूद proposed as जल्दी as 1923.
Hubble थी वित्तपोषित in the 1970s, with a proposed लॉन्च in 1983, but the प्रोजेक्ट was घिरा by तकनीकी देरी, budget समस्याएं, and the Challenger disaster.
जब finally launched in 1990, वैज्ञानिकों found कि the main दर्पण था been मैदान incorrectly, compromising the दूरदर्शी 's capabilities.
The दूरदर्शी थी लौटी to its intended quality by a सर्विसिंग mission in 1993.
हबल is the only दूरदर्शी designed to be सर्विस in स्पेस by astronauts.
Between 1993 and 2002, four missions repaired, upgraded, और replaced systems on the दूरदर्शी ; a पांचवां mission थी canceled on सुरक्षा grounds following the Columbia विपत्ति.
However, बाद spirited पब्लिक चर्चा, नासा administrator Mike griffin approved एक final सर्विसिंग मिशन, समाप्त in 2009 by स्पेस Shuttle अटलांटिस.
The telescope is अभी अपेक्षित to फलन जबतक at least 2013.
Its scientific successor, the जेम्स Webb Space दूरदर्शी ( JWST ), is to be launched in 2018 or संभवतः बाद.
anti-inflammatory refers to the property of a substance or treatment कि reduces सूजन.
anti-inflammatory दवाएँ मेक up परिचय हाफ of analgesics, remedying पीड़ा by reducing सूजन as opposed to opioids, which affect the central nervous प्रणाली.
the Tonight Show is a us late-night बात दिखाएँ कि has aired on एनबीसी चूंकि 1954.
it is the longest currently running regularly अनुसूचित entertainment कार्यक्रम in the US and the third longest-running दिखाएँ on एनबीसी बाद मिलें the Press and Today.
The tonight Show थी hosted by Steve एलन ( 1954–1957 ), जोकर paar ( 1957–1962 ), Johnny कार्सन ( 1962–1992 ), Jay लीनो ( 1992–2009, 2010–present ), and Conan O'Brien ( 2009–2010 ).
अनेक अतिथि hosts भी appeared, विशेषकर during the paar और कार्सन eras.
the longest-serving मेजबान to तिथि थी Johnny Carson, जो hosted The Tonight Show Starring जॉनी Carson for 30 सीज़न इससे the पतन of 1962 through the spring of 1992.
The वर्तमान मेजबान of the दिखाएँ is Jay लीनो, जो had previously hosted the show इससे 1992 to 2009 और began उसके दूसरी tenure on कूच 1, 2010.
On April 3, 2013, एनबीसी घोषित Jimmy fallon होता become the नई host of the Tonight Show.
the Tonight Show साथ Jimmy fallon होगा premiere फ़रवरी 24, 2014, the दिन बाद the closing ceremonies of the 2014 Winter ओलंपिक.
ss एंड्रिया Doria.
सुनाया थी an ocean liner for the इतालवी Line ( società di navigazione Italia ) home ported in जेनोआ, Italy, most प्रसिद्ध for its डूब in 1956, जब 52 लोगों died ( 51 from immediate प्रभाव ).
Named after the 16th-century Genoese admiral एंड्रिया डोरिया, the जलयान had a gross पंजीकरण tonnage of 29,100 और a capacity of परिचय 1,200 passengers and 500 crew.
For a देश attempting to rebuild इसके economy and प्रतिष्ठा after World War ii, Andrea Doria थी an icon of इतालवी national अभिमान.
Of सब Italy 's ships at the time, Andrea डोरिया थी the largest, fastest and supposedly safest.
शुभारम्भ on 16 जून 1951, the जलयान undertook its maiden voyage on 14 January 1953.
On 25 July 1956, जबकि the Andrea डोरिया was approaching the coast of nantucket, मैसाचुसेट्स, bound लिये नई यॉर्क नगर, the eastbound of the स्वीडिश American लकीर collided साथ it in what became one of history 's most infamous maritime आपदाओं.
Struck in the side, the top-heavy एंड्रिया डोरिया तत्काल started to list severely to starboard, which बाएँ हाफ of its lifeboats अनुपयोगी.
the consequent shortage of lifeboats might have resulted in significant घाटा of जीवन, लकिन the दक्षता of the ship 's technical design allowed it to रहो afloat लिये over 11 घंटों after the ramming.
The good behavior of the क्रू, improvements in communications और the रैपिड जवाब of अन्य जहाजों averted a disaster समान in स्केल to that of the in 1912.
1,660 यात्री and crew यहूद बचाया and survived, while 46 people died as a consequence of the collision.
the evacuated luxury liner capsized और sank the following morning.
This दुर्घटना remains the worst मेरीटाइम विपत्ति to occur in संयुक्त States waters since the डूब of the in 1915.
The incident और इसके aftermath यहूद heavily covered by the न्यूज media.
जबकि the बचाव efforts यहूद दोनो कामयाब and commendable, the cause of the टक्कर साथ the स्टॉकहोम और the घाटा of एंड्रिया डोरिया उत्पन्न much interest in the media and अनेक lawsuits.
Largely because of an out-of-court उपनिवेश agreement between the दो शिपिंग companies दौरान hearings immediately बाद the विपत्ति, no determination of the कारण ( s ) थी ever formally प्रकाशित.
हालांकि वृहद दोष appeared initially to पतन on the इतालवी liner, more हाल discoveries have indicated that a misreading of रडार on the Swedish ship may have initiated the collision कोर्स, अग्रणी to errors on both ships.
एंड्रिया डोरिया was the पिछला प्रमुख transatlantic passenger vessel to sink before वायुयान became the preferred method of सफर.
Dialysis tubing
डायलिसिस tubing is a प्रकार of सेमi- or partially permeable membrane tubing बना from regenerated cellulose or cellophane.
It can be used लिये diffusion साथ solutes or परासरण if प्रयुक्त साथ water only.
Osmosis is when जल passes through a semi-permeable परत to पहुँचें संतुलन.
diffusion, on the other हाथ, allows the गति of अणुओं इससे ऊँची विशेषज्ञता to low concentration.
it will only allow अणुओं to pass through a semi-permeable झिल्ली or layer if the अणु is छोटी पर्याप्त to fit through the झिल्ली or a झिल्ली 's pore.
इस प्रायः परिणाम with the effects of diffusion through a membrane तभी really affects छोटी अणुओं, and लगभग never larger molecules.
डायलिसिस tubing is used in clinical हालातों to ensure a filtered प्रवाह of molecules, preventing the flow of larger solute molecules.
Small molecules can be `` washed '' out of a solution which is उत्तेजित through the tubing into a solvent, प्रायः जल, जिससे surrounds it और in which वे can be flushed दूर.
In demonstrations of semi-permeable membranes, a समाधान containing several प्रकार of अणुओं, usually glucose और starch, is लगाई into a semi-permeable dialysis थैला, ऐसे as a cellulose membrane with pores, और the थैला is sealed with a गांठ or elastic band.
the sealed dialysis bag is लगाई in a container of a different solution, or जल.
अणुओं small enough to pass through the tubing ( water, लवण, monosaccharides, और other small अणुओं ) tend to move into or आउट of the डायलिसिस bag in the दिशा of अवरोहण concentration, therefore displaying diffusion.
larger molecules ( ऐसे as proteins, or polysaccharides ) कि have dimensions significantly वृहद than the pore diameter हैं retained अंदर the dialysis थैला.
The जल और smaller solutes in a hypotonic solution ( a solution that has a lesser solute विशेषज्ञता than the solution it is referenced to ) will क्रॉस a semi-permeable membrane, जैसे डायलिसिस tubing, into a hypertonic समाधान ( a solution कि रै a उच्चतर solute विशेषज्ञता than the solution it is संदर्भित to ) in an attempt to reach संतुलन, where the solute concentration of each समाधान is in equilibrium.
Mercury प्रयोगशाला थर्मामीटर
a थर्मामीटर ( from the यूनानी, thermos, अर्थ `` hot '' and μἐτρον, metron, `` माप '' ) is a यंत्र that उपायों temperature or तापमान अनुपात using a variety of different principles.
a थर्मामीटर has दो महत्वपूर्ण elements : the temperature सेंसर ( e.g. the bulb on a mercury-in-glass थर्मामीटर ) in जिससे some physical बदलें occurs साथ temperature, plus कुछ means of converting this शारीरिक बदलें into a numerical value ( e.g. the visible scale कि is marked on a mercury-in-glass थर्मामीटर ).
There are many types and अनेक उपयोग लिये thermometers, as detailed नीचे in भाग of इस आलेख.
Snow श्वेत और the सात Dwarfs is a 1937 American animated musical fantasy film produced by Walt डिज़्नी and released by rko Radio तस्वीरें.
आधारित on the जर्मनी fairy tale by the Brothers grimm, it is the first full-length cel एनिमेटेड विशेषता फिल्मी और the earliest in the वॉल्ट Disney एनिमेटेड क्लासिक series.
The स्टोरी थी adapted by स्टोरीबोर्ड कलाकारों डोरोथी ऐन Blank, Richard creedon, मेरिल de Maris, ओटो englander, Earl hurd, लंड Rickard, Ted सियर्स and webb स्मिथ.
दाउद हाथ थी the supervising निदेशक, while William cottrell, Wilfred Jackson, Larry morey, Perce pearce, and Ben Sharpsteen directed the film 's व्यक्तिगत sequences.
Snow श्वेत premiered at the Carthay Circle Theatre on December 21, 1937, followed by a nationwide रिलीज on February 4, 1938, and with international earnings of $ 8 million during इसके initial release briefly assumed the record of highest grossing sound फिल्मी at the समय.
the लोकप्रियता of the film रै led to it being re-released theatrically अनेक टाइम्स, जबतक its घर video रिलीज in the 1990s.
Adjusted लिये महंगाई, it is एक of the शीर्ष ten performers at the North American box दफ्तर.
at the 11th अकादमी पुरस्कार, वॉल्ट डिज़्नी was awarded an मानद ऑस्कर, और the फिल्मी थी nominated लिये बेहतरीन Musical Score.
It was added to the संयुक्त राज्य National Film Registry in 1989 और is ranked in the American Film Institute 's सूची of the 100 महानतम American films, who also named the film as the greatest American एनिमेटेड फिल्मी of all time in 2008.
Disney 's लो on the परी टेल has था a big cultural impact, resulting in a लोकप्रिय theme पार्क आकर्षण, a वीडियो खेल, and a Broadway musical.
Childbirth, labour, डिलीवरी, जनम, partus, or parturition is the culmination of a गर्भावस्था काल with the expulsion of one or अधिक नवजात infants from a स्त्री 's गर्भाशय.
The प्रक्रम of normal childbirth is categorized in three चरण of labour : the shortening and dilation of the cervix, descent और birth of the शिशु, and जनम of the placenta.
In many cases and साथ increasing आवृत्ति, childbirth is achieved through प्रेरण of labor or caesarean खण्ड, which is the removal of the neonate through a सर्जिकल incision in the उदर, बल्कि than through vaginal जनम.
प्रसव by C-Sections increased 50 % in the U.S. from 1996 to 2006, and comprise nearly 32 % of births in the u.S. and कनाडा.
With आदर to induced मजदूर, अधिक than 22 % of women undergo प्रेरण of श्रमिक in the United राज्य.
Medical पेशेवर policy makers find that induced births और elective cesarean can be नुकसानदेह to the fetus और neonate as well as नुकसानदेह or बगैर लाभ to the माँ, and have established सख्त दिशानिर्देश for non-medically indicated induced births और elective cesarean पहले 39 weeks.
Viva la bam was an MTV & चिरायु show जिससे followed bam margera और his crew as वे undertook चुनौतियां, performed stunts और traveled the संसार.
the दिखाएँ ran लिये 5 सीज़न between 2003 और 2005.
flushed दूर is a 2006 British/American computer एनिमेटेड कार्रवाई / एडवेंचर comedy फिल्मी निर्देशित by David bowers and sam गिरी.
It थी बना in the साझेदारी between Aardman एनिमेशन and DreamWorks Animation, and is Aardman 's पहला completely computer-animated विशेषता as opposed to the usual stop-motion.
The फिल्मी stars the voice talents of Hugh Jackman, Kate Winslet, Andy serkis, Bill Nighy, इयान McKellen, Shane Richie और जां रेनो.
the स्टोरी थी by sam गिरी, Peter रब, लंड सहनशील, and Ian La frenais, और the पटकथा थी written by Dick सहनशील, इयान la Frenais, क्रिस्टोफर लॉयड, जो Keenan, and William Davies.
the फिल्मी थी released in US on 3 नवम्बर 2006, और in uk on December 1 2006, and थी distributed by Paramount तस्वीरें, मगर लिये स्विट्ज़रलैंड, Spain, और the Netherlands, which were handled by सार्वभौमिक Pictures.
the Atlanta Braves are a professional बेसबॉल टोली based in Atlanta.
The Braves हैं a सदस्य of the पूर्वी प्रभाग of प्रमुख लीग Baseball 's National League.
The Braves have निभाई in Turner Field चूंकि 1997.
the `` Braves '' नाम, which थी पहला used in 1912, originates from a पद लिये a Native American warrior.
वे हैं nicknamed `` the Bravos '', and often referred to as `` अमेरिका 's Team `` in सन्दर्भ to the टोली 's खेल being ब्रॉडकास्ट on the nationally उपलब्धियाँ tbs इससे the 1970s until 2007, gaining a wide fanbase.
From 1991 to 2005 the Braves were one of the सबसे successful franchises in बेसबॉल, winning division titles an unprecedented 14 लगातार टाइम्स in that काल ( omitting the strike-shortened 1994 ऋतु in which there यहूद no आधिकारिक division champions ).
the Braves जीती the nl वेस्ट 1991–93 और the nl ईस्ट 1995–2005, और returned to the playoffs as the National League जंगली कार्ड in 2010.
the Braves उन्नत to the World Series पाँच टाइम्स in the 1990s, winning the title in 1995.
चूंकि their डेब्यू in the नेशनल League in 1876, the franchise has जीती 16 डिवीजनल titles, 17 National लीग pennants, as खूब as three World श्रेणी championships—in 1914 as the बोस्टन braves, in 1957 as the मिल्वौकी braves, और in 1995 in Atlanta.
The Braves हैं the तभी MLB franchise to have won the World श्रेणी in three अलग home शहरों.
the club is one of the National लीग 's दो remaining charter franchises ( the other होने the Chicago शावक ) and थी संस्थापित in बोस्टन, Massachusetts, in 1871 as the बोस्टन रेड stockings ( नहीं to be उलझन साथ the American League 's Boston Red Sox ).
They are माना `` the oldest continuously playing टोली in major उत्तर अमरीकी sports. ''
वहीँ is an तर्क as to जो is दरअसल older क्युकी हालांकि the शावक हैं a पूरा ऋतु `` पुरानी '' ( formed as the Chicago White stockings in 1870 ) Chicago खोया two सीज़न to the ग्रेट शिकागो आग, thus the braves have played more consecutive सीज़न.
बाद various नाम परिवर्तन ( ऐसे as the Boston beaneaters ), the टोली संचालित as the Boston Braves for सबसे of the first half of the 20th century.
in 1953, the team moved to मिल्वौकी, Wisconsin और became the मिल्वौकी Braves, followed by the मूव to अटलांटा in 1966.
The टोली 's tenure in अटलांटा is famous लिये Hank Aaron breaking बेब Ruth 's करियर घर चलाएं record in 1974, हालांकि the बहुमत of Aaron 's घर रनों were hit while the टोली was in मिल्वौकी.
उसके रिकार्ड stood जबतक 2007, when सैन फ्रांसिस्को बाएँ क्षेत्ररक्षक Barry bonds broke the record.
the leaves of a beech tree
3D रेंडरिंग of a μct स्कैन of a पत्ता टुकड़ा, रेज़ोल्यूशन circa 40 μm/ voxel.
A पत्ता is an organ of a vascular plant, as defined in वनस्पति शर्तें, and in particular in संयंत्र morphology.
Foliage is a mass noun that refers to leaves as a विशेषता of plants.
Typically a पत्ता is a thin, flattened अंग borne ऊपर मैदान and specialized for photosynthesis, लकिन अनेक types of पत्ते हैं adapted in तरीके almost unrecognisable in those terms : some are नहीं चपटा ( लिये example many रसीले पत्ते and conifers ), कुछ हैं not ऊपर ground ( ऐसे as bulb तराजू ), और some हैं बगैर major photosynthetic फलन ( consider लिये उदाहरण cataphylls, spines, and cotyledons ).
Conversely, अनेक structures of non-vascular plants, or भी of some lichens, जिससे are नहीं plants at all ( in the sense of being members of the किंगडम Plantae ), do look and फलन much जैसे leaves.
Furthermore, several structures found in vascular पौधे dekh like leaves लकिन हैं not दरअसल leaves ; they differ from leaves in their structures और origins.
Examples include phyllodes, cladodes, and phylloclades.
Title card लिये the 1937 हमारी गिरोह कॉमेडी rushin ' Ballet.
हमारी गिरोह ( भी known as the Little Rascals or एचएएल रोच 's Rascals ) are a series of American comedy छोटी films about a समूह of poor पड़ोस children and their adventures.
Created by comedy producer Hal Roach, the series is विख्यात for showing children behaving in a relatively natural रास्ता, as रोच और original director Robert F. McGowan worked to फिल्मी the unaffected, raw nuances apparent in नियमित children rather than have them imitate वयस्क एक्टिंग शैलियाँ.
In जोड, हमारी गिरोह notably put लड़कों, girls, whites और blacks together in a group as equals, something कि `` broke नई मैदान, '' according to film historian Leonard maltin.
ऐसे a thing था never been किया before in सिनेमा लकिन has चूंकि been दोहराया बाद the कामयाबी of Our Gang.
The first उत्पादन at the Roach studio in 1922 was a श्रेणी of मूक छोटी subjects.
जब रोच changed वितरकों इससे Pathé to metro-goldwyn-mayer ( MGM ) in 1927, and converted the श्रेणी to ध्वनि in 1929, the श्रेणी took बंद भी further.
उत्पादन जारी at the रोच studio जबतक 1938, जब the series was बेची to MGM, who तब continued producing the comedies जबतक 1944.
The हमारी Gang series includes a total of 220 shorts and one विशेषता फिल्मी, सामान्य spanky, featuring over forty-one चाइल्ड अभिनेताओं.
as mgm retained the rights to the हमारी Gang trademark following their खरीदें of the production rights, the 80 roach-produced `` टॉकीज़ '' were syndicated लिये टेलीविज़न under the title The Little Rascals beginning in 1955.
दोनो रोच 's the छोटी दुष्टों पैकेज ( अभी स्वामित्व by सीबीएस टेलीविज़न वितरण ) and mgm 's हमारी गिरोह पैकेज ( अभी owned by warner Bros. entertainment ) have चूंकि remained in syndication, साथ आवधिक नई productions based on the shorts surfacing over the सालो, including a 1994 छोटी Rascals feature film released by सार्वभौमिक तस्वीरें.
Zacharias Janssen ( भी Zacharias जानसन or sacharias Jansen ) ( b.1580-88, d.pre-1632 to 1638 ) was a Dutch spectacle-maker इससे Middelburg associated with the आविष्कार of the first ऑप्टिकल telescope.
janssen is sometimes भी credited लिये inventing the पहला truly यौगिक microscope.
However, the उत्पत्ति of the microscope, just like the उत्पत्ति of the telescope, is a पदार्थ of बहस.
Lake tahoe ( ; washo : dáʔaw ) is a विशाल freshwater झील in the Sierra Nevada of the संयुक्त राज्य.
At a सतह elevation of, it is स्तिथ साथ the किनारा between California and Nevada, वेस्ट of कार्सन नगर.
Lake Tahoe is the largest अल्पाइन झील in उत्तर अमेरिका.
इसके गहराई is, making it the संयुक्त राज्य 's second-deepest ( the deepest is crater Lake in ऑरेगॉन, होने deeper, at ).
additionally, झील tahoe is सूचीबद्ध as the 26th largest झील by आवाज़ in the world at.
the lake थी formed परिचय 2 लाख सालो पहले और is a भाग of the झील Tahoe Basin with the modern lake being तराशा during the ice ages.
it is ज्ञात लिये the स्पष्टता of इसके जल और the परिदृश्य of surrounding kyu on all sides.
The क्षेत्रफल surrounding the झील is also referred to as Lake Tahoe, or बस tahoe.
झील Tahoe is a major पर्यटक attraction in both नेवाडा और California.
it is घर to a क्रमांक of ski resorts, summer बाहरी मनोरंजन, and पर्यटक आकर्षण.
Snow और skiing are a significant भाग of the क्षेत्रफल 's अर्थव्यवस्था और प्रतिष्ठा.
पहाड़ और lake scenery are attractions throughout the साल.
The नेवाडा side भी includes large कसीनो.
राजमार्गों provide year-round access इससे रेनो, कार्सन City, and sacramento.
Page 1 of the Twenty-seventh Amendment 's certification in the नेशनल अभिलेख
Page 2 of the amendment 's प्रमाणन
पेज 3 of the amendment 's प्रमाणन
The Twenty-seventh amendment ( amendment XXVII ) prohibits कोई law कि increases or decreases the salary of सदस्यों of the Congress इससे लेने effect जबतक the प्रारंभ of the next नियत of शर्तें of दफ्तर लिये प्रतिनिधि.
it is the most recent amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य Constitution.
It was सुपुर्द to the राज्य for अनुसमर्थन in 1789 और थी adopted in 1992.
“First they आए... ” is a famous statement and provocative कविता attributed to पादरी Martin niemöller ( 1892–1984 ) about the sloth of जर्मनी intellectuals following the nazis ' rise to power and the subsequent purging of उनके chosen लक्ष्य, group after समूह.
There is कुछ असहमति over the exact wording of the quotation और जब it was निर्मित ; the content of the quotation may have been presented differently by niemöller on अलग occasions.
This list of islands by क्षेत्रफल शामिल सब आइलैंड्स in the world वृहद than 2,500 km2 ( ) और अनेक other islands over 500 km2 ( ), sorted in descending order by क्षेत्रफल.
लिये तुलना, continents are भी दिखाया.
चार Thirds लोगो
The Four Thirds system is a standard निर्मित by ओलम्पस और कोडक for digital single-lens reflex कैमरा ( DSLR ) design and development. < ref name='DPReview.com 2001-02-13 ' >
the प्रणाली provides a standard कि, साथ डिजिटल कैमरे and lenses उपलब्धियाँ इससे अनेक निर्माताओं, allows लिये the interchange of lenses और लाशें from different निर्माताओं.
seems to cover the मानक.
Proponents describe it as an open मानक, but कंपनियाँ may तभी उपयोग it under a non-disclosure अनुबंध.
नापसंद पुरानी slr systems, Four तिहाई रै महरूम designed इससे the मैदान up to be entirely डिजिटल.
Many lenses are extensively computerized, to the पाइंट that Olympus offers firmware updates for many of उन्हें.
Lens design रै महरूम tailored to the आवश्यकताएँ of digital sensors, most notably through telecentric डिजाइन.
The size of the सेंसर is significantly smaller than for सबसे dslrs और this implies कि lenses, especially telephoto lenses, can be छोटी.
लिये उदाहरण, a Four Thirds लेंस साथ a 300 mm focal length would cover about the वही angle of दृश्य as a 600 mm focal length लेंस for the 35 mm फिल्मी standard, और is correspondingly अधिक compact.
यूँ, the Four Thirds प्रणाली has क्रॉप फ़ैक्टर ( focal length multiplier ) of परिचय 2, and while this enables longer focal लंबाई for greater magnification, it करता n't aid the manufacture of wide angle lenses.
The image sensor स्वरूप, generally intermediate between those of larger slrs और smaller compact कैमरे, generally देता levels of cost, performance and convenience intermediate between those two वर्ग.
hvac प्रणालियों use वेंटिलेशन एयर ducts संस्थापित throughout a building to supply conditioned एयर to a रूम through आउटलेट vents, called diffusers ; और नलिकाएं to हटाएँ एयर through return-air grilles.
HVAC ( हीटिंग, ventilation, और air कंडीशनिंग ) is the technology of अंदर and automotive environmental comfort.
HVAC प्रणाली डिज़ाइन is a subdiscipline of mechanical अभियान्त्रिकी, based on the सिद्धान्त of thermodynamics, द्रव mechanics, and heat transfer.
प्रशीतन is sometimes added to the फ़ील्ड 's abbreviation as hvac & R or hvacr, or ventilating is dropped as in hacr ( such as the designation of hacr-rated सर्किट breakers ).
HVAC is important in the डिज़ाइन of medium to विशाल औद्योगिक और दफ्तर buildings ऐसे as skyscrapers और in marine environments such as aquariums, जहाँ सुरक्षित और स्वस्थ भवन शर्तें हैं regulated साथ respect to temperature and आर्द्रता, using fresh एयर इससे outdoors.
वेंटिलेशन on the downdraught system, by impulsion, or the 'plenum ' principle, लागू to schoolrooms ( 1899 )
Heating, ventilating, and एयर conditioning is आधारित on inventions and discoveries made by Nikolay Lvov, Michael फैराडे, Willis वाहक, reuben trane, जेम्स Joule, William Rankine, sadi Carnot, and many अन्य.
The invention of the components of hvac systems गई hand-in-hand साथ the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति, and नई methods of modernization, higher efficiency, और system कंट्रोल are constantly introduced by companies और आविष्कारक विश्वव्यापी.
the three सेंट्रल functions of heating, ventilating, और air-conditioning हैं interrelated, विशेषकर साथ the need to provide thermal comfort और स्वीकार्य indoor air विशेषता within उचित installation, operation, and मेंटेनेंस लागत.
hvac प्रणालियों can provide वेंटिलेशन, reduce एयर घुसपैठ, और maintain pressure relationships between spaces.
The अर्थात् of air delivery और removal इससे स्पेसेस is known as रूम एयर distribution.
the starting पाइंट in carrying आउट an अनुमान दोनो लिये कूलिंग और हीटिंग depends on the exterior climate और आंतरिक specified शर्तें.
However पहले लेने up the heat लोड calculation, it is जरुरी to find भैस एयर आवश्यकताएँ लिये प्रत्येक क्षेत्रफल in विवरण, as pressurization is an important विचार.
In modern buildings the design, installation, और control प्रणालियों of ये कृत्यों are integrated into एक or more hvac systems.
लिये very small buildings, contractors normally capacity engineer और select hvac प्रणालियों and उपकरण.
For larger इमारतें, building services designers and इंजीनियर्स, ऐसे as mechanical, architectural, or भवन सेवाएं इंजीनियर्स analyze, डिज़ाइन, और specify the HVAC systems, और specialty mechanical contractors fabricate और commission उन्हें.
भवन permits और code-compliance inspections of the installations are normally जरूरी for सब sizes of इमारतें.
The hvac उद्योग is a worldwide एंटरप्राइज़, साथ roles including operation and मेंटेनेंस, प्रणाली डिज़ाइन and construction, equipment manufacturing और sales, and in शिक्षा और research.
The HVAC industry थी historically regulated by the निर्माताओं of HVAC उपकरण, लकिन regulating and मानकों संगठन such as HARDI, ashrae, SMACNA, ACCA, Uniform Mechanical कोड, International mechanical कोड, and amca have been स्थापित to support the उद्योग and encourage ऊँची standards and achievement.
royal Navy Commander James बंध, CMG, RNVR, is a fictional character निर्मित by British पत्रकार and novelist Ian Fleming in 1953.
he is the समर्थक of the जेम्स बंध श्रेणी of novels, films, कॉमिक्स और वीडियो games.
फ्लेमिंग लिखा बारह Bond novels और दो short स्टोरी collections पहले his death, although the last दो books— The Man साथ the Golden Gun और octopussy और the Living Daylights —were published मरणोपरांत.
the बंध अक्षर is a Secret Service एजेंट, कोड क्रमांक 007, residing in London but क्रियाशील internationally.
Bond थी a composite अक्षर जो थी आधारित on a क्रमांक of commandos whom Fleming knew दौरान his service in the नवल प्रज्ञा Division during World युद्ध II, to जिसको Fleming added his अपना style and a number of उसके own tastes ; बंध 's नाम was appropriated इससे अमरीकी ornithologist जेम्स बंध.
Bond रै a क्रमांक of character traits जिससे चलाएं throughout the किताबे, including an enjoyment of गाड़ियाँ, a love of खाना and drink, और an औसत intake of sixty custom-made cigarettes a day.
चूंकि Fleming 's मौत in 1964, there have been अन्य authorised लेखक of Bond सामग्री, including John Gardner, who wrote fourteen novels और दो novelizations and Raymond Benson, जो लिखा छह novels, three novelizations और तीन short कहानियां.
वहीँ have भी been तीन लेखक जो लिखा one किताब प्रत्येक, किंग्सले Amis ( लिखने as रॉबर्ट Markham ), Sebastian faulks and jeffery deaver.
additionally a series of novels based on बंध 's youth— Young Bond —was लिखा by Charlie higson.
As spin-offs इससे the साहित्यिक works, there was a टेलीविज़न अनुकूलन of the first novel, कसीनो royale, in जिससे बंध was played as an American agent.
a कॉमिक strip series also ran in the Daily Express समाचारपत्र.
वहीँ have भी महरूम twenty-five बंध films ; सात अभिनेताओं have निभाई Bond in these films.
`` Nature लड़के '' is a सोंग by Eden ahbez, प्रकाशित in 1947.
The song tells a fantasy of a `` अजीब enchanted boy... who wandered बहुत far '' तभी to learn कि `` the greatest thing... was बस to love और be loved in वापसी ''.
Nat King Cole 's 1948 recording of the सोंग थी a प्रमुख hit and `` Nature लड़के '' रै चूंकि become a पॉप और jazz standard, with dozens of major कलाकारों interpreting the सोंग.
Louisiana ( or ;, ; louisiana Creole : Léta de la Lwizyàn ) is a राज्य located in the southern region of the United राज्य of अमेरिका.
Louisiana is the 31st most extensive और the 25th most populous of the 50 United राज्य.
Its पूंजी is Baton Rouge और largest नगर is नई ऑरलियन्स.
Louisiana is the तभी state in the U.S. with political subdivisions termed parishes, जिससे are local सरकारी 's समतुल्य to काउंटी.
the largest parish by जनसांख्यिकी is ईस्ट baton Rouge मोहल्ला, and the largest by जमीन area is cameron मोहल्ला.
much of the state 's lands यहूद formed from sediment धोया down the Mississippi नदी, leaving विशाल deltas और vast areas of coastal दलदल और swamp.
ये contain a rich दक्षिणी biota ; ठेठ examples include birds such as आइबिस और egrets.
There हैं also many प्रजाति of पेड़ frogs, and fish such as sturgeon and paddlefish.
in अधिक elevated areas, fire is a प्राकृतिक process in the landscape, और रै produced extensive areas of longleaf पाइन वन और wet savannas.
ये support an exceptional विशाल क्रमांक of संयंत्र प्रजाति, सहित many species of orchids और मांसाहारी पौधे.
Some Louisiana urban environments have a multicultural, बहुभाषी heritage, होने so strongly influenced by an admixture of 18th-century French, Spanish, Native American ( Indian ) and अफ़्रीकी संस्कृतियों that वे are माना to be somewhat exceptional in the U.S.
पहले the अमरीकी purchase of the territory, the वर्तमान Louisiana State had been दोनो a Spanish and French उपनिवेश.
In addition, the pattern of विकास शामिल importing numerous African slaves in the 18th सदी, with many from the वही region of West Africa, यूँ concentrating their culture.
in the post-civil War पर्यावरण, Anglo-Americans increased the दबाव लिये anglicization, and in 1915, English was बना the तभी आधिकारिक language of the राज्य.
Women 's अधिकारों हैं the rights and entitlements claimed for women and लड़कियों of अनेक समाजों worldwide.
in कुछ स्थान ये अधिकारों are institutionalized or supported by law, लोकल कस्टम, और behaviour, whereas in others वे may be उपेक्षित or suppressed.
They differ from broader धारणाएं of human rights through claims of an अंतर्निहित ऐतिहासिक और परंपरागत पूर्वाग्रह विरूद्ध the exercise of rights by महिलाओं and girls in पक्ष of men और boys.
Issues commonly associated with धारणाएं of women 's rights include, हालांकि are नहीं सीमित to, the right : to bodily अखंडता and स्वायत्तता ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to थाम public दफ्तर ; to कार्य ; to fair wages or equal अदा ; to own property ; to शिक्षा ; to serve in the सैन्य or be conscripted ; to डालें into legal contracts ; और to have marital, parental and धार्मिक rights.
The laws of विज्ञान or scientific laws are statements कि describe, predict, और perhaps बताइये why, a दायरा of phenomena व्यवहार as they appear to in प्रकृति.
The term `` विधि '' रै विविध उपयोग in अनेक मामले : सन्निकट, accurate, broad or narrow theories, in सब प्राकृतिक scientific disciplines ( भौतिकी, रसायन, biology, भूविज्ञान, खगोलशास्त्र इत्यादि. ).
an analogous पद लिये a scientific law is a principle.
Scientific laws:
summarize a विशाल collection of facts determined by प्रयोग into a single statement,
can usually be formulated mathematically as एक or अनेक statements or equation, or at least stated in a सिंगल sentence, so कि it can be used to predict the outcome of an प्रयोग, दिए the initial, boundary, और other शारीरिक conditions of the processes जिससे take place,
are strongly supported by अनुभवजन्य evidence - वे are वैज्ञानिक knowledge कि experiments have repeatedly verified ( और never falsified ).
Their accuracy करता not बदलें when नई theories are worked out, लकिन बल्कि the scope of application, since the समीकरण ( if any ) representing the law करता नहीं change.
As साथ other वैज्ञानिक knowledge, वे do नहीं have निरपेक्ष certainty like गणितीय theorems or identities, and it is always संभावित लिये a law to be overturned by future observations.
are प्रायः कोटेड as a आधारभूत controlling influence rather than a वर्णन of observed facts.
i.e. `` the कानून of motion आवश्यकता कि ''
Laws differ from hypotheses और postulates, which are प्रस्तावित दौरान the scientific process पहले and दौरान validation by experiment and अवलोकन.
ये हैं not laws चूंकि they have नहीं been सत्यापित to the same उपाधि and may नहीं be fear सामान्य, हालांकि they may lead to the formulation of laws.
a law is a more solidified and formal बयान, distilled from दोहराया प्रयोग.
Although the अवधारणाओं of a विधि or principle in nature is borderline to philosophy, और presents the गहराई to जिससे गणित can describe nature, scientific कानून are considered इससे a scientific perspective and follow the वैज्ञानिक विधि ; they `` serve उनके purpose '' बल्कि than `` questioning वास्तविकता '' ( philosophical ) or `` statements of logical absolution '' ( गणितीय ).
लिये example, whether a विधि `` refers to वास्तविकता '' is a philosophical issue, rather than scientific.
Fundamentally, सब scientific laws follow इससे भौतिकी, laws which occur in other sciences ultimately follow from physical कानून.
प्रायः, from mathematically fundamental viewpoints, universal constants emerge इससे scientific कानून.
The launch of the PlayStation 3 into the Japanese market on 10 नवम्बर 2006 चिह्नित the दूसरी प्रमुख seventh generation entertainment प्रणाली to be released.
The system थी released seven days later on 17 नवम्बर in the United States.
परिचय into अन्य संसार बाज़ार थी delayed by a shortage of diodes लिये उपयोग in the Blu-ray disc खिलाड़ी ; the device थी शुभारम्भ in European and अन्य world बाज़ार in the first half of 2007.
Lauren Fenmore baldwin ( formerly विलियम्स and Grainger ) is a fictional अक्षर from the CBS साबुन operas The Young और the Restless and the बिंदास और the Beautiful, portrayed by ट्रेसी E. Bregman.
She made उसके डेब्यू during the episode airing on January 21, 1983.
In 1992, bregman began बनाना sporadic appearances on The Bold and the Beautiful, later resulting in the अक्षर migrating वहीँ fully in 1995.
Following a guest appearance in 2000, bregman लौटे to The यंग and the Restless on अगस्त 24, 2001, बाकी on recurring औकात.
in 2013, it थी घोषित कि Bregman had been लगाई on अनुबंध.
much of Lauren 's इतिहास has revolved around उसके romances साथ पॉल Williams, Scott grainger, Sr., और माइकल baldwin among अनेक अन्य causing a fierce फंसने with traci Abbott connolly.
लॉरेन is भी प्रसिद्ध for उसके long, हिंसक rivalry with Sheila Carter.
The 2010 NBA Finals थी the नेशनल बास्केट संघ ( NBA ) चैंपियनशिप series for the 2009–10 season.
the best-of-seven playoff was लडे between the लॉस Angeles लेकर्स, champions of the पश्चिमी सम्मेलन and defending NBA champions, और the बोस्टन सेल्टिक्स, champions of the Eastern सम्मेलन.
The लेकर्स पराजित the Celtics, चार खेल to तीन, to win the franchise 's 16th NBA championship.
The 64th edition of the चैंपियनशिप series थी निभाई between June 3 और जून 17, was broadcast on एबीसी, and was देखी by an average of 18.1 million लोगों.
The Celtics earned उनके berth into the playoffs by जीतना the Atlantic Division.
The Lakers जीती the Pacific Division to earn उनके berth.
the Celtics पहुँचे the एनबीए फाइनल by defeating the मियामी ऊष्मा in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference पहला Round, the Cleveland Cavaliers in the best-of-seven Eastern सम्मेलन Semifinals, and defending पूर्वी सम्मेलन champion Orlando जादू in the best-of-seven Eastern सम्मेलन Finals.
The Lakers reached the NBA Finals by defeating the Oklahoma नगर थंडर in the best-of-seven Western Conference पहला गोलाकार, the यूटा Jazz in the best-of-seven Western सम्मेलन Semifinals, and the फीनिक्स Suns in the best-of-seven पश्चिमी सम्मेलन Finals.
the एनबीए Finals यहूद scheduled in the प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल World श्रेणी 2–3–2 seven game स्वरूप, साथ the लेकर्स possessing home-court advantage as a बदला for finishing साथ better regular season record than the Celtics.
दोहराया baskets इससे स्टार्टर Kobe Bryant, Pau gasol, और Ron artest brought the लेकर्स बंद to विजय in Game 1.
A record तोड़कर performance इससे रे Allen 's eight three-point baskets ensured the सेल्टिक्स a खेल 2 triumph.
डेरेक Fisher ’s 11 अंक in the चौथी quarter helped the लेकर्स win Game 3.
The सेल्टिक्स जीती खेल 4 ; it did n't hurt कि वे netted an बेहतरीन performance in baskets by the team’s reserves, while Paul Pierce led the टोली to a Game 5 win with 27 अंक on 57 % shooting from the floor.
The Lakers avoided elimination by जीतना a निर्णायक खेल 6 with 24 points contributed by उनके बेंच.
Although they trailed the Celtics by 13 अंक early in the तीसरा क्वार्टर, the Lakers rallied and won their second लगातार चैंपियनशिप by taking over an exciting Game 7 aided by late contributions on ठोकर by Pau gasol and artest and rebounding.
Bryant was named Most मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी of the फाइनल लिये his second consecutive ट्रॉफी.
This थी the पहला NBA फाइनल to go the full सात खेल चूंकि and तभी the fourth since the एनबीए फाइनल लौटे to a 2–3–2 format in.
the laker मताधिकार has 16 NBA championships ( पाँच in Minneapolis, 11 in लॉस Angeles ) trailing the Celtics ' seventeen championships.
The NBA Finals used the `` संसार Series '' स्वरूप in 1949 मिनियापोलिस Lakers पराजित the वॉशिंगटन capitols 4 खेल to 2 ; in 1953 Minneapolis defeated the नई York Knicks 4 games to 1 ; in 1954 मिनियापोलिस defeated the syracuse Nationals 4 games to 3 ; and in 1955 syracuse नागरिकों पराजित the Fort Wayne Pistons 4 games to 3.
the एनबीए होता return to the 2–2–1–1–1 National Hockey लीग सात खेल series स्वरूप जबतक 1985.
ब्लैक pepper ( पाइपर nigrum ) is a flowering बेल in the family piperaceae, cultivated लिये इसके फल, जिससे is प्रायः सूखी और used as a spice और seasoning.
The fruit, known as a peppercorn when सूखी, is लगभग in व्यास, अंधेरा red जब fully mature, and, जैसे all drupes, contains a single seed.
peppercorns, and the मैदान pepper derived from उन्हें, may be वर्णित simply as pepper, or अधिक precisely as ब्लैक pepper ( cooked और सूखी unripe फल ), ग्रीन pepper ( सूखी unripe फल ) and white pepper ( dried ripe बीज ).
ब्लैक pepper is native to south इण्डिया, and is extensively cultivated वहीँ और elsewhere in tropical regions.
Currently Vietnam is the संसार 's largest निर्माता and exporter of pepper, producing 34 % of the संसार 's Piper nigrum crop as of 2008.
सूखी ground pepper रै been प्रयुक्त since antiquity for both इसके फ्लेवर और as a आयुर्विज्ञान.
ब्लैक pepper is the संसार 's most traded मसाला.
It is one of the most common spices added to European cuisine and its descendants.
the spiciness of black pepper is due to the रासायनिक piperine, not to be उलझन साथ the capsaicin that gives fleshy peppers theirs.
It is in the आधुनिक world, often paired with नमक.
in cardiovascular physiology, ejection भिन्न ( EF ) represents the आयतनी भिन्न of रक्त pumped out of the ventricle ( दिल ) साथ each heart ताल or हृदय cycle.
It can be लागू to either the सही ventricle जिससे ejects via the pulmonary वाल्व into the pulmonary circulation or the बाएँ ventricle which ejects via the aortic वाल्व into the प्रणालीगत circulation.
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian दिल is the आर्ट कि allows सार्थक गणितीय expression धमक ef.
Noninvasive cardiac इमेजिंग रै become a worldwide यूटिलिटी enabling पढ़ाई of cardiac प्रदर्शन reproducibly and inexpensively.
सरलीकृत, ejection भिन्न is a गणितीय product अनुमत by हृदय imaging.
As a mathematical पद, Ejection भिन्न is an एक्सटेंशन of the work of एडाल्फ Fick in हृदय आउटपुट.
समर्पित प्रौद्योगिकी such as Echocardiography, computed टोमोग्राफी, Magnetic Resonance Imaging and muga स्कैनिंग have definitively allowed clinically relevant mathematics regarding ischemia, Congenital Heart बीमारी and दिल Failure.
The अभियोजक is the मुख्य विधिक representative of the अभियोजन in देशों साथ either the common law adversarial system, or the सिविल law inquisitorial system.
the अभियोजन is the legal party जिम्मेदार for पेश the case in a दण्ड trial against an व्यक्तिगत accused of breaking the विधि.
Strawberry shortcake most commonly अर्थात् a dessert in the shortcake परिवार of cakes.
Strawberry shortcake may भी refer to:
स्ट्रॉबेरी shortcake, a character and franchise created by American Greetings
The shortened title of Strawberry on the shortcake, a जापानी रोमांस फिल्म.
abū al-Qāsim muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh इब्न ʿAbd al-muṭṭalib ibn hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 June 632 ), भी transliterated as Muhammad ( ), was a religious, political, और सैन्य नेता इससे Mecca who एकीकृत Arabia into a single धार्मिक polity under islam.
He is believed by Muslims and Bahá'ís to be a मेसेंजर and नबी of परमेश्वर.
Muhammad is लगभग universally माना by मुसलमान as the last prophet भेजा by God for mankind.
Non-Muslims लिहाज़ Muhammad as the founder of islam.
मुसलमान consider him to be the restorer of an अनछुए असली monotheistic faith of आदम, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, and अन्य नबियों.
born in परिचय 570 ce in the Arabian city of मक्का, he was अनाथ at an जल्दी age और brought up under the परवाह of his ताऊ abu तालिब.
He बाद worked mostly as a व्यापारी, as खूब as a shepherd, और was पहला शादीशुदा by आयु 25.
होने in the habit of periodically retreating to a गुफा in the surrounding mountains for several nights of seclusion और prayer, he बाद reported कि it was there, at age 40, that he received उसके first रहस्योद्घाटन from God.
Three years after इस इवेंट मुहम्मद प्रारंभ उपदेश ये revelations publicly, proclaiming कि `` परमेश्वर is एक ``, कि complete `` आत्मसमर्पण '' to Him ( lit.
islām ) is the तभी रास्ता ( dīn ) स्वीकार्य to परमेश्वर, और that he खुद थी a नबी और मेसेंजर of God, in the वही रग as अन्य इस्लामी prophets.
मुहम्मद gained few अनुसरणकर्ता जल्दी on, और थी मिले साथ दुश्मनी from कुछ meccan जनजातियों ; he और उसके अनुसरणकर्ता were treated harshly.
to escape persecution, मुहम्मद भेजा कुछ of his अनुसरणकर्ता to Abyssinia before he and his followers in Mecca migrated to मदीना ( then ज्ञात as yathrib ) in the year 622.
इस इवेंट, the हिज्र, marks the शुरूआत of the Islamic calendar, which is भी ज्ञात as the Hijri Calendar.
in Medina, Muhammad united the tribes under the Constitution of मदीना.
After eight years of लड़ with the meccan जनजातियों, उसके followers, जो by तब था grown to 10,000, took control of Mecca in the largely शांतिपूर्ण conquest of मक्का.
He नष्ट the pagan मूर्तियों in the city और then भेजा his अनुसरणकर्ता out to destroy सब of the बाकी pagan मंदिरों in पूर्वी अरब.
In 632, a few महीने after returning to मदीना from The विदाई यात्राएं, मुहम्मद fell ill और died.
By the time of his मौत, सबसे of the arabian प्रायद्वीप था परिवर्तित to Islam, और he था united अरब into a सिंगल मुस्लिम धार्मिक polity.
The revelations ( or ayah, lit.
`` लक्षण [ of God ] '' ) — जिससे मुहम्मद reported receiving जबतक his death – रूप the आयतें of the Quran, regarded by मुसलमान as the `` शब्द of God '' and around जिससे the धर्म is आधारित.
Besides the कुरान, Muhammad 's life ( सिरा ) and परंपराओं ( sunnah ) हैं भी upheld by मुसलमान as the स्त्रोत of sharia law.
वे discuss मुहम्मद and other नबियों of Islam with reverence, adding the phrase सलाम be upon उसे whenever their names are उल्लेखित.
While conceptions of मुहम्मद in medieval christendom and premodern टाइम्स were largely ऋणात्मक, appraisals in आधुनिक history have been दूर कम so.
The ग्रेट किताबे ( दूसरी edition )
Great किताबे of the Western संसार is a श्रेणी of books originally प्रकाशित in the संयुक्त राज्य in 1952 by Encyclopædia विश्वकोष Inc. to उपस्थित the Great किताबे in a सिंगल package of 54 आयतन.
The series is अभी in its second edition और contains 60 volumes.
the असली सम्पादक of the series chose three criteria लिये समावेश : a book जरूर be प्रासंगिक to contemporary मुद्दे, और नहीं तभी महत्वपूर्ण in its ऐतिहासिक कॉन्टेक्स्ट ; it जरूर बदला rereading ; और it जरूर be a भाग of `` the great conversation परिचय the great विचार, '' relevant to at least 25 of the 102 great ideas identified by the editors.
Books यहूद नहीं चुनी on the आधार of ethnic or cultural inclusiveness, historical influence, or the editors ' agreement साथ the दृश्य expressed.
`` Cocaine '' is a सोंग written और अंकित by jj cale in 1976, but also ज्ञात as a कवर version अंकित by Eric क्लैप्टन.
Allmusic काल्स the latter `` among [ Clapton 's ] most enduringly लोकप्रिय हिट्स '' and notes कि `` even for an artist जैसे Clapton साथ a huge body of high-quality कार्य, 'cocaine ' ranks among his best. ''
Glyn Johns, who had previously worked with The Who, led zeppelin and the रोलिंग Stones, produced the Clapton रिकॉर्डिंग, जिससे थी released on Clapton 's 1977 एल्बम Slowhand and as a single in 1980.
the live version of `` कोका '', from the बस One रात्रि album recorded in टोकियो, charted on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 as the b-side of `` Tulsa समय ``, जिससे was a No. 30 hit in 1980. ``
कोका '' थी एक of अनेक of cale 's songs recorded by Clapton, including `` बाद Midnight `` and `` Travelin ' लाइट ''.
The आक्रमण on Pearl हार्बर ( called हवाई Operation or आपरेशन ai by the Japanese Imperial सामान्य मुख्यालय ( Operation z in नियोजन ) और the बैटल of Pearl Harbor ) was a आश्चर्य सैन्य strike conducted by the Imperial जापानी नेवी against the United राज्य नवल base at पर्ल Harbor, Hawaii, on the morning of दिसम्बर 7, 1941 ( दिसम्बर 8 in जापानी ).
इससे the standpoint of the defenders, the attack commenced at 7:48 a.m. हवाई समय.
The आक्रमण थी intended as a preventive कार्रवाई in order to रखना the u.S. Pacific Fleet from interfering with military actions the साम्राज्य of जापानी was नियोजन in Southeast Asia विरूद्ध विदेशी territories of the United किंगडम, the नीदरलैंड्स, और the United राज्य.
the आधार was attacked by 353 जापानी सेनानी, bombers और torpedo planes in दो लहरें, launched इससे छह वायुयान carriers.
सब eight U.S. नेवी battleships were damaged, with चार होने sunk.
दो of ये were later raised, and साथ the remaining four repaired, six battleships लौटे to service बाद in the युद्ध.
The जापानी भी sank or damaged तीन cruisers, तीन destroyers, an anti-aircraft प्रशिक्षण जलयान, और एक minelayer.
188 u.S. वायुयान यहूद destroyed ; 2,402 Americans यहूद मारे और 1,282 wounded.
महत्वपूर्ण आधार संस्थापना ऐसे as the शक्ति station, shipyard, मेंटेनेंस, और fuel and torpedo storage सुविधाएं, as खूब as the पनडुब्बी piers and मुख्यालय building ( also home of the प्रज्ञा section ) यहूद not attacked.
Japanese नुकसान यहूद light : 29 aircraft और five midget submarines lost, and 65 servicemen मारे or wounded.
एक जापानी नाविक थी captured.
the attack आए as a profound shock to the अमरीकी लोगों and led directly to the अमरीकी प्रविष्टि into World War II in दोनो the Pacific and European थिएटर.
The following दिन ( December 8 ), the United States declared युद्ध on Japan.
घरेलू support लिये non-interventionism, which था महरूम strong, disappeared.
Clandestine support of ब्रिटेन ( लिये उदाहरण the neutrality Patrol ) थी replaced by क्रियाशील alliance.
subsequent परिचालन by the U.S. prompted जर्मनी and इटली to declare युद्ध on the U.S. on December 11, which थी reciprocated by the U.S. the वही day.
वहीँ were numerous historical precedents लिये unannounced सैन्य action by Japan.
However, the lack of कोई औपचारिक warning, particularly जबकि negotiations यहूद still apparently ongoing, led President फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट to proclaim December 7, 1941, `` a तिथि which होगा सजीव in infamy ``.
Project रनवे ऋतु 2 थी the दूसरी ऋतु of ब्रावो 's successful Project Runway, a reality competition लिये फ़ैशन designers.
ऋतु 2 began airing on दिसम्बर 7, 2005.
following a देशभर search earlier in the साल, सोलह designers यहूद चुनी as semi-finalists और brought to नई York City in जून, 2005.
After the पहला challenge, called `` Road to the Runway '', fourteen गई on to compete as finalists.
the जीतना designer, क्लो Dao, received $ 100,000 in बीज धन to सहायता launch her own लकीर, a 2007 शनि Sky roadster, a spread in ELLE पत्रिका, और a mentorship साथ the banana Republic Design Team.
जीतना alongside dao थी उसके model, Grace kelsey, जो प्राप्त the elle Magazine स्प्रेड.
Michael kors और Nina Garcia returned as judges लिये the दूसरी ऋतु.
the चौथी judging seat घुमाया each week, based on the challenge.
Tim Gunn, fashion chair at पार्सन्स the New School लिये Design, returned as a mentor for the designers.
कारा janx later appeared in Project रनवे : सब सितारों in 2012, where she समाप्त 7th out of 13.
andrae Gonzalo, in the same साल, competed in the दूसरी season of the All सितारों edition रखकर 10th आउट of 13.
an उदाहरण of a heraclius खच्चर
in numismatics, a खच्चर is a coin or medal minted with obverse और रिवर्स designs not सामान्यतः seen on the वही piece.
These can be जानबूझकर or produced by गलती.
This प्रकार of गलती is अत्यधिक sought बाद, और उदाहरण can लाने steep कीमतें from collectors.
the earliest mules are मिला among ancient यूनानी और Roman सिक्के.
Opinion is विभाजित between those जो think कि they हैं accidental, the result of an incorrect combination of a new die with one कि था officially been withdrawn from use, or the कार्य of coiners working साथ मरता stolen इससे an official mint, शायद at a समय when one of them चाहिए have been destroyed.
the नाम derives इससे the mule, the hybrid offspring of a horse and a गधा, due to ऐसे a सिक्का having दो पहलू intended लिये अलग coins, much as a mule रै अभिभावक of two अलग प्रजाति.
इस page दस्तावेज़ the tornadoes और बवंडर outbreaks of 2010.
the majority of tornadoes form in the U.S., but they can occur लगभग anywhere अंतर्गत the सही conditions.
A lesser number occur outside the U.S., सबसे notably in भाग of neighboring southern Canada दौरान the उत्तरी गोलार्ध 's summer ऋतु, लकिन हैं also known in दक्षिण अमेरिका, Europe, एशिया, और Australia.
There यहूद 1,531 tornadoes reported in the United राज्य in 2010 ( of जिससे at तनिक 1,266 यहूद पुष्टि ), साथ 45 पुष्टि fatalities.
Elsewhere in the world, 11 लोगों यहूद मारे in tornadoes, छह in अर्जेंटीना, तीन in the बहामा, one in Bangladesh, और one in जर्मनी.
The साल थी निकट average for tornadoes despite an extremely quiet early spring period, however ऐसे बदला बाद a विशाल upswing starting in late April and a busy लेट वसन्त and summer period.
The autumn महीने were थोड़ा above औसत.
A lymphocyte is a type of white blood cell in the vertebrate प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली.
अंतर्गत the सूक्ष्मदर्शी, lymphocytes can be विभाजित into large lymphocytes and छोटी lymphocytes.
Large granular lymphocytes include natural कातिल कोशिकाएं ( NK कोशिकाएं ).
Small lymphocytes consist of T cells और b कोशिकाएं.
Windows PowerShell is microsoft 's कार्य स्वचालन फ्रेमवर्क, consisting of a command-line शेल and associated एनक्रिप्शन भाषा built on.neT Framework.
powershell provides full अभिगम to COM and WMI, enabling administrators to perform प्रशासनिक tasks on दोनो लोकल and remote Windows systems.
in powershell, प्रशासनिक tasks are generally performed by cmdlets ( pronounced command-lets ), जिससे are specialized.NET classes implementing a particular operation.
सेट of cmdlets may be combined together in स्क्रिप्ट, executables ( which हैं स्टैंडअलोन अनुप्रयोग ), or by instantiating नियमित.NET वर्ग ( or wmi/com वस्तुएँ ).
ये work by accessing आंकड़ा in अलग data स्टोर्स, like the filesystem or रजिस्ट्री, which हैं बना उपलब्धियाँ to the powershell runtime via Windows PowerShell प्रदाताओं.
खिड़कियाँ powershell भी provides a hosting API with which the Windows PowerShell runtime can be अंतःस्थापित inside other applications.
These applications can then use खिड़कियाँ powershell कार्यक्षमता to implement निश्चित operations, सहित those exposed via the graphical इंटरफ़ेस.
इस काबिलियत has been used by microsoft Exchange सर्वर 2007 to expose इसके management कार्यक्षमता as powershell cmdlets and प्रदाताओं और implement the graphical management tools as PowerShell होस्ट जिससे invoke the जरुरी cmdlets.
अन्य Microsoft अनुप्रयोग सहित microsoft एसक्यूएल Server 2008 भी expose उनके management interface via PowerShell cmdlets.
साथ PowerShell, आलेखीय interface-based प्रबन्धन applications on खिड़कियाँ are layered on top of Windows PowerShell.
A PowerShell scripting interface लिये Windows products is mandated by the आम अभियान्त्रिकी मापदण्ड.
खिड़कियाँ PowerShell includes इसके own extensive, console-based सहायता, similar to man पृष्ठों in यूनिक्स shells, via the get-help cmdlet.
Mary poppins is a 1964 musical फिल्मी अभिनीत जूली एंड्रयूज, Dick Van Dyke, दाउद tomlinson, और Glynis जॉन्स, produced by Walt डिज़्नी, and based on the मरियम Poppins books श्रेणी by P. L. ट्रेवर्स.
The फिल्मी was निर्देशित by Robert stevenson and written by Bill वाल्श and Don DaGradi, with songs by the शरमन भाइयो.
it थी शॉट at Walt डिज़्नी studios in Burbank, California.
Julie एंड्रयूज won the Academy पुरस्कार for बेहतरीन Actress for उसके performance as Mary poppins और the फिल्मी also won Oscars for Best फिल्मी संपादन, Original Music स्कोर, बेहतरीन सोंग for `` Chim Chim Cher-ee '' and Best Visual प्रभाव, and प्राप्त a total of 13 nominations.
a story arc is an विस्तारित or continuing कथानक in episodic storytelling मीडिया such as television, कॉमिक किताबे, comic strips, boardgames, video games, और in कुछ मामले, films.
On a television program, for example, the story would unfold over अनेक एपीसोड.
In television, the उपयोग of the स्टोरी चाप is much अधिक common in dramas than in comedies, especially in soap operas.
Webcomics हैं more likely to use story arcs than newspaper कॉमिक्स, as सबसे वेब कॉमिक्स have readable archives ऑनलाइन that a newcomer to the strip can read in अनुक्रम to understand what is going on.
Although स्टोरी arcs have existed for दशकों, the term `` स्टोरी arc '' थी coined in 1988 in relation to the television series wiseguy, and थी quickly adapted for अन्य uses.
Many अमरीकी comic किताब series are अभी written in चार or six-issue arcs, within a continuing series.
छोटी स्टोरी arcs हैं easier to package as व्यापार paperbacks for पुनर्विक्रय, and अधिक accessible to the casual reader than the never-ending continuity कि एकबार characterised कॉमिक्स.
Black शुक्रवार is the day following थैंक्सगिविंग Day in the संयुक्त राज्य, often regarded as the beginning of the क्रिसमस खरीदारी ऋतु.
In हाल सालो, सबसे major retailers have खोली extremely जल्दी और offered promotional बिक्री to लात बंद the holiday खरीदारी ऋतु, समान to Boxing दिन बिक्री in अनेक राष्ट्रमंडल राष्ट्र.
Black Friday is not an official public अवकाश as ऐसे, लकिन अनेक non-retail कर्मचारी और schools have both Thanksgiving और the दिन बाद बंद, followed by a वीकेंड, thereby increasing the क्रमांक of potential shoppers.
It रै routinely महरूम the busiest shopping day of the year since 2005, although न्यूज reports, जिससे at कि समय यहूद inaccurate, have described it as the busiest खरीदारी day of the year for a much longer काल of समय.
The day 's नाम originated in फिलाडेल्फिया, where it originally was प्रयुक्त to describe the heavy और disruptive पैदल और गाडी traffic which would occur on the day बाद Thanksgiving.
उपयोग of the पद started before 1961 और began to see broader use outside Philadelphia around 1975.
बाद an alternative explanation began to be offered : कि `` ब्लैक Friday '' indicates the point at जिससे retailers शुरू to फेरे a profit, or हैं `` ''.
लिये अनेक years, it थी आम लिये रिटेलर to खोलें at 6:00 a.m., लकिन in the लेट 2000s अनेक था crept to 5:00 or even 4:00.
This थी लिया to a new चरम in 2011, when several retailers ( including Target, Kohl 's, macy 's, बेहतरीन Buy, and bealls ) opened at मध्यरात्रि for the पहला समय.
in 2012, Walmart और several अन्य retailers announced कि they होता open सबसे of उनके स्टोर्स at 8:00 p.m. on थैंक्सगिविंग Day ( except in राज्य जहाँ opening on Thanksgiving is prohibited due to blue laws, such as मैसाचुसेट्स जहाँ they still opened around मध्यरात्रि ), prompting calls for a walkout among some workers.
ब्लैक Friday shopping is known लिये attracting aggressive crowds, with annual रिपोर्ट्स of assaults, shootings, और throngs of people trampling on other shoppers in an attempt to get the बेहतरीन सौदे on a product पहले supplies चलाएं out.
The परिवार कि Preys is a 2008 American movie drama लिखा, produced, और निर्देशित by Tyler पेरी.
The पटकथा focuses on two परिवारों, one wealthy और the other working क्लास, जिनकी lives are intertwined in दोनो love और business.
the फिल्म is the second of चार in which पेरी 's signature अक्षर, madea, करता नहीं मेक an रूप.
it is भी the second Perry-directed फिल्मी ( alongside Daddy 's छोटी Girls ) that is नहीं आधारित on कोई of the फिल्मकार 's stage plays.
Net 10, जाल 15, Net 30 और जाल 60 ( भी जाल 10 दिनों, et al ) are फ़ॉर्म of व्यापार क्रेडिट which specify कि the जाल राशि ( the total outstanding on the चालान ) is expected to be paid in full and received by the विक्रेता भीतर 10, 15, 30 or 60 दिनों बाद the goods हैं dispatched or सेवा is completed.
जाल 30 or जाल 60 शर्तें हैं often coupled with a क्रेडिट for early भुगतान.
the word net in this भाव means `` total बाद सब छूट. ''
It originally derives इससे the Latin nitere ( to shine ) and nitidus ( सुरुचिपूर्ण, trim ), and अधिक recently from the फ्रेंच net ( शार्प, neat, clean ).
roadtown, Tortola
The British वेस्ट इंडीज were the आइलैंड्स in और around the Caribbean कि यहूद part of the British साम्राज्य.
In 1912, the British वेस्ट Indies यहूद divided into आठ colonies : the Bahamas, बारबाडोस, British guiana, British होंडुरास, Jamaica ( साथ इसके dependencies the Turks और caicos आइलैंड्स and the केमन Islands ), त्रिनिदाद और Tobago, the Windward Islands and the Leeward Islands.
Between 1958 and 1962, सब of the island territories except the अंग्रेजों Virgin Islands, the बहामा, अंग्रेजों Honduras and अंग्रेजों Guiana यहूद organised into the वेस्ट Indies Federation.
it was hoped कि the Federation होता become independent as a सिंगल स्वदेश, but it had सीमित शक्तियां, अनेक practical समस्याएं, and a कमी of लोकप्रिय support.
Consequently, the वेस्ट इंडीज संघ was dissolved.
Most of the territories, including all the larger ones, are अभी स्वतंत्र as पृथक देशों, with membership to अनेक international forums such as the Organization of American States, the संघ of caribbean States, the संसार Trade Organization, the United Nations, the Caribbean जातियाँ, the Commonwealth of Nations और the caribbean Development Bank among others.
the शेष हैं अंग्रेजों overseas territories.
All the पूर्व राष्ट्र of the अंग्रेजों West Indies, except the Commonwealth of Dominica, Guyana और त्रिनिदाद and टोबैगो, are राष्ट्रमंडल Realms.
the पद is still प्रयुक्त लिये अंग्रेजों विदेशी territories in the caribbean, ऐसे as the केमन आइलैंड्स.
the बाकी अंग्रेजों West Indies
`` What a Wonderful संसार '' is a song लिखा by bob Thiele ( as `` George Douglas '' ) और George दाउद वेइस.
It was पहला recorded by Louis आर्मस्ट्रांग and released as a single in 1967.
thiele और Weiss यहूद both prominent in the म्यूज़िक world ( thiele as a producer और वेइस as a composer/performer ).
आर्मस्ट्रांग 's रिकॉर्डिंग was inducted in the ग्रैमी Hall of कीर्ति in 1999.
The publishing for this सोंग is controlled by मेमोरी लेन Music समूह, कार्लिन म्यूज़िक Corp., और Bug Music, Inc.
उद्घाटन Day 2009 on the वेस्ट कदम of the U.S. कैपिटल.
अध्यक्ष George W. Bush and First Lady Laura बुश सीसे the inaugural parade bas पेन्सिलवेनिया Avenue to the White House, 2005
the inauguration of the president of the United States is a ceremonial event marking the शुरुआत of a new four-year पद of a अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य.
the दिन a presidential उद्घाटन occurs is ज्ञात as `` उद्घाटन दिन '' और occurs on जनवरी 20 ( or 21st if the 20th is a संडे ).
( prior to the बीसवीं Amendment, the date was March 4, the day of the साल on which the संविधान of the United States first took effect in 1789 ; the पिछला inauguration to take place on the older date थी फ्रैंकलिन D. Roosevelt 's पहला एक on कूच 4, 1933. )
The सबसे हाल public presidential उद्घाटन ceremony, the swearing in of President बराक Obama to begin उसके दूसरी four-year term in दफ्तर, took प्लेस on सोमवार, जनवरी 21, 2013.
the तभी उद्घाटन element mandated by the United States Constitution is कि the president मेक an oath or प्रतिज्ञान पहले that व्यक्ति can `` enter on the Execution '' of the office of the presidency.
however, over the सालो, विभिन्न traditions have arisen that have expanded the inauguration इससे a simple oath-taking रस्म to a day-long event, including parades, भाषणों, and balls.
From the presidency of Andrew जैक्सन through कि of jimmy कार्टर, the primary उद्घाटन दिन रस्म took प्लेस on the कैपिटल 's East portico.
चूंकि the 1981 उद्घाटन of रोनाल्ड Reagan, the रस्म रै महरूम held at the Capitol 's West Front.
the inaugurations of विलियम Howard Taft in 1909 and reagan in 1985 were स्थानांतरित indoors at the कैपिटल due to cold weather.
The War of 1812 और संसार War II caused two inaugurations to be held at other स्थितियाँ in वॉशिंगटन, d.c.
When George वॉशिंगटन थी उदघाटन, the oath was administered by Robert Livingston, चांसलर of नई यॉर्क State, in 1789, और by William Cushing, संबद्ध Justice of the परम् Court, in 1793.
Since मुख्य इंसाफ Oliver एल्सवर्थ swore in अध्यक्ष John एडम्स, no मुख्य इंसाफ has छूटी an Inauguration Day.
जब Inauguration दिन has गिरे on a Sunday, the chief justice has administered the शपथ to the अध्यक्ष on the Sunday privately और then again the next day publicly.
जब a नई अध्यक्ष takes over mid-term due to the death or इस्तीफा of a अध्यक्ष, the शपथ of दफ्तर is administered लकिन formal, पब्लिक inauguration events have नहीं been आयोजित.
stefani जोआन एंजेलीना germanotta ( ; born कूच 28, 1986 ), known by her स्टेज नाम Lady गागा, is an American सिंगर, songwriter, रिकार्ड निर्माता, नर्तकी, activist, businesswoman, fashion designer, actress and लोकसेवक.
Born and उठाया in नई यॉर्क नगर, she primarily studied at the Convent of the Sacred दिल और briefly attended New York University 's tisch स्कूल of the कला before withdrawing to फ़ोकस on her musical करियर.
वो soon began performing in the rock म्यूज़िक झाँकी of मैनहटन 's निम्नतर ईस्ट पक्ष.
By the end of 2007, रिकार्ड कार्यपालिका and निर्माता Vincent हर्बर्ट signed her to his label streamline रिकॉर्ड, an imprint of Interscope Records.
initially working as a songwriter at Interscope Records, उसके गायन abilities captured the ध्यान of रिकॉर्डिंग artist एकॉन, who also signed her to Kon सजीव Distribution, his अपना लेबल अंतर्गत Interscope.
Lady Gaga came to prominence as a recording कलाकार following the रिलीज of उसके डेब्यू album, the Fame ( 2008 ), which was a critical and commercial success that अव्वल charts around the संसार and included the अंतरराष्ट्रीय number-one singles `` Just Dance `` और `` Poker Face ``.
After embarking on the The कीर्ति बॉल Tour, वो followed the album with The कीर्ति दानव ( 2009 ), which शाखित the विश्वव्यापी hit singles `` ख़राब रोमांस ``, `` टेलीफोन ``, and `` alejandro ``.
the कीर्ति Monsters success allowed उसके to embark on the eighteen-month long Monster बॉल Tour, which बाद became एक of the highest-grossing कॉन्सर्ट टुर of all समय.
उसके सबसे हाल एल्बम, born इस रास्ता ( 2011 ), topped the charts of सबसे major markets और उत्पन्न more international chart-topping singles, including `` Born This रास्ता ``, `` Judas ``, and `` The किनारे of Glory ``.
बहकावे by Britney स्पीयर्स, दाउद Bowie, Michael जैक्सन, Madonna, और महारानी, महिला Gaga is recognized for उसके flamboyant, diverse और outré contributions to the म्यूज़िक industry through उसके fashion, performances और music videos.
as of October 2011, she रै बेची an अनुमानित 23 लाख एल्बम और 64 लाख singles विश्वव्यापी and उसके singles are some of the best-selling worldwide.
उसके achievements include five ग्रैमी पुरस्कार और 13 MTV Video म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार.
Lady गागा रै consecutively appeared on बिलबोर्ड magazine 's कलाकारों of the Year ( scoring the definitive शीर्षक in 2010 ), क्रमित fourth in VH1 's सूची of 100 महानतम Women in म्यूज़िक, is the sixth बेहतरीन selling digital singles कलाकार in us according to riaa, is regularly लगाई on lists composed by Forbes magazine and was named एक of the सबसे influential people in the संसार by समय पत्रिका.
besides her musical करियर, वो involves herself with humanitarian causes and lgbt सक्रियता.
McKethan Stadium home of घड़ियाल बेसबॉल
A picture of the 1924 Baseball टोली
The फ्लोरिडा gators बेसबॉल team represents the University of Florida in the खेल of बेसबॉल.
the Florida gators compete in Division i of the National Collegiate Athletics Association ( NCAA ), और the पूर्वी Division of the Southeastern Conference ( सेक ).
वे खेल उनके घर games in Alfred A. McKethan स्टेडियम on the विश्वविद्यालयों 's Gainesville, फ्लोरिडा कैम्पस, और हैं currently led by सिर कोच केविन o'sullivan.
in the ninety-eight ऋतु इतिहास of the gators baseball program, the team रै won बारह सेक championships and has appeared in eight College World श्रेणी tournaments.
`` Electioneering '' redirects here.
For the Radiohead song, देखिए OK Computer.
Presidential campaign बटन लिये अब्राहम lincoln, 1860.
The reverse side of the button shows a portrait of उसके कार्यशील mate hannibal Hamlin.
A political campaign is an organized effort which seeks to influence the निर्णय बनाना process within a विशिष्ट समूह.
In democracies, राजनैतिक अभियान often refer to चुनावी अभियान, wherein प्रतिनिधि are चुनी or referendums are decided.
In आधुनिक politics, the most ऊँची profile political campaigns हैं focused on candidates for head of राज्य or सिर of government, often a President or Prime Minister.
एलिज़ाबेथ Cady stanton and her बेटी, Harriot
Elizabeth cady stanton ( नवम्बर 12, 1815 – अक्तूबर 26, 1902 ) was an American सोशल activist, abolitionist, and अग्रणी figure of the early महिलाओं 's rights गति.
Her Declaration of Sentiments, presented at the पहला women 's rights convention held in 1848 in Seneca Falls, नई York, is प्रायः credited साथ initiating the पहला व्यवस्थित महिलाओं 's rights and women 's suffrage आंदोलनों in the संयुक्त States.
Before stanton narrowed her political फ़ोकस लगभग exclusively to women 's rights, she was an active abolitionist together with her husband, हेनरी Brewster Stanton और cousin, Gerrit स्मिथ.
नापसंद many of those involved in the women 's rights गति, Stanton addressed विभिन्न मुद्दे pertaining to women beyond मतदान rights.
Her concerns included women 's parental और custody अधिकारों, property अधिकारों, नियुक्ति and income rights, divorce, the economic health of the family, and birth कंट्रोल.
She थी also an outspoken समर्थक of the 19th-century temperance गति.
बाद the American सिविल War, Stanton 's commitment to मादा suffrage caused a schism in the women 's अधिकारों movement जब she, साथ साथ सुसान B. एंथोनी, declined to support ड्योढ़ी of the fourteenth और Fifteenth amendments to the संयुक्त States Constitution.
She opposed giving added legal सुरक्षा and voting अधिकारों to African American men जबकि women, black and white, यहूद denied those वही rights.
उसके position on इस समस्या, together with her thoughts on व्यवस्थित christianity और महिलाओं 's मुद्दे परे मतदान अधिकारों, led to the formation of दो separate women 's rights संगठन that were आखिरकार rejoined, साथ Stanton as president of the joint organization, लगभग twenty years बाद उसके ब्रेक from the असली women 's suffrage गति.
stanton died in 1902 having authored दोनो the स्त्री 's बाइबल और her autobiography, along साथ many आलेख और pamphlets concerning मादा suffrage and women 's अधिकारों.
My Fair Lady is a musical based upon George बर्नार्ड शॉ 's Pygmalion और साथ book and lyrics by Alan Jay Lerner और म्यूज़िक by Frederick loewe.
The स्टोरी चिंताएं eliza Doolittle, a Cockney flower लड़की who takes वाक lessons from प्राध्यापक हेनरी Higgins, a phoneticist, so कि she may pass as a well-born lady.
The musical 's 1956 Broadway उत्पादन was a hit, सेटिंग कया थी तब the रिकार्ड for the longest चलाएं of any major musical theatre उत्पादन in history.
It थी followed by a hit लंदन उत्पादन, a popular film संस्करण, and numerous revivals.
It has been called `` the perfect musical ''.
deregulation is the अधिनियम or प्रक्रम of निकालना or reducing state regulations.
it is इसलिए विपरीत of विनियमन, which refers to the प्रक्रम of the सरकारी regulating निश्चित क्रियाएँ.
The Boston bruins रेडियो संजाल is a 25-station ( 17 a.M., 8 f.m. plus 2 F.M. translators ) CBS रेडियो संजाल जिससे carries सजीव खेल broadcasts of the बोस्टन bruins.
The संजाल 's फ्लैगशिप station is wbz-fm /98.5- बोस्टन, Massachusetts.
Dave Goucher announces play-by-play.
Bob Beers provides रंग commentary.
इस आलेख is परिचय the छोटी स्टोरी.
लिये the कविता by सारा teasdale, see There Will Come नरम rains.
`` वहीँ होगा Come नरम Rains '' is a short story by विज्ञान fiction author Ray bradbury जिससे was पहला published in the may 6, 1950 issue of Collier 's.
Later that वही year the स्टोरी was included in Bradbury 's The martian Chronicles ( 1950 ).
With over 1.2 billion people, हान Chinese is the largest ethnic group in the संसार.
Pashtun लोगों of the Pashtunistan प्रदेश, जिससे sits in an क्षेत्रफल between दक्षिण of the हिन्दू Kush in अफगानिस्तान और the सिंधु River in Pakistan.
They number around 50 million.
The Korowai people of Papua गिने बस around 3,000 people, और were uncontacted until the 1970s.
नस्ल or ethnic समूह is a socially defined श्रेणी आधारित on common culture or राष्ट्रीयता.
नस्ल can, but करता not have to, शामिल आम ancestry, appearance, cuisine, dressing स्टाइल, heritage, इतिहास, language or dialect, धर्म, symbols, traditions, or other सांस्कृतिक फ़ैक्टर.
जातीय पहचान is constantly reinforced through आम characteristics जिससे नियत the group अलावा from other groups.
the 19.9 MW gemasolar solar plant in Spain सुविधाएँ 15 घंटों of storage और can सप्लाई power 24 घंटों a day.
सौर energy, radiant लाइट और ऊष्मा from the sun, रै महरूम harnessed by humans since ancient टाइम्स using a range of ever-evolving technologies.
सौर energy technologies शामिल solar heating, solar photovoltaics, सौर thermal electricity, सौर वास्तुकला और artificial photosynthesis, जिससे can मेक considerable contributions to solving कुछ of the सबसे urgent उर्जा समस्याएं the world now चेहरों.
सौर technologies are broadly characterized as either passive सौर or active solar depending on the way they capture, convert and वितरित solar energy.
क्रियाशील solar तकनीकों include the use of photovoltaic panels और solar थर्मल collectors to दोहन the energy.
Passive सौर तकनीकों include orienting a building to the Sun, selecting सामग्री साथ favorable थर्मल mass or लाइट dispersing properties, और designing spaces that naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the International उर्जा एजेंसी कहा कि `` the विकास of सस्ती, inexhaustible और clean सौर energy technologies होगा have विशाल longer-term लाभ.
it will बढ़ाएँ countries’ उर्जा security through रिलायंस on an indigenous, inexhaustible और mostly import-independent संसाधन, बढ़ाएँ sustainability, reduce pollution, निम्नतर the लागत of mitigating climate बदलें, और keep चट्टान ईंधन कीमतें निम्नतर than वरना.
ये advantages हैं global.
Hence the अतिरिक्त costs of the incentives for early deployment should be माना सीखना निवेश ; they जरूर be wisely spent and need to be widely shared ''.
the classical Latin वर्णमाला or रोमन alphabet विकसित from a पश्चिमी variety of the Greek वर्णमाला पुकारा the Cumaean वर्णमाला, which was adopted and परिवर्धित by the etruscans जो शासित early Rome.
The etruscan alphabet थी in turn adopted और further परिवर्धित by the ancient romans to लिखें the Latin language.
During the मध्य आयु, the लैटिन वर्णमाला थी adapted to Romance languages, सीधा वंशजों of Latin, as well as to Celtic, Germanic, बाल्टिक, and some स्लावी भाषाएं.
साथ the आयु of colonialism and ईसाई इंजीलवाद, the लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट was स्प्रेड विदेशी, and लागू to indigenous अमरीकी, ऑस्ट्रेलियाई, ऑस्ट्रोनीशियाई, Austroasiatic, और African भाषाएं.
अधिक recently, linguists have also tended to prefer the लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट or the International Phonetic वर्णमाला ( itself largely based on Latin स्क्रिप्ट ) जब transcribing or creating लिखा मानकों लिये non-european भाषाएं, such as the African सन्दर्भ alphabet.
The पद Latin वर्णमाला may refer to either the वर्णमाला प्रयुक्त to लिखें Latin ( as described in this article ), or अन्य alphabets आधारित on the लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट, which is the मौलिक set of letters common to the विभिन्न alphabets descended from the classical लैटिन एक, ऐसे as the अंग्रेज़ी alphabet.
ये Latin-derived alphabets may discard अक्षर, जैसे the Rotokas alphabet, or add new अक्षर, like the डैनिश and Norwegian alphabet.
Letter shapes have बदला over the centuries, including the creation लिये Medieval Latin of lower case forms जिससे did नहीं मौजूद in the शास्त्रीय काल.
the हत्या of United States President अब्राहम Lincoln took place on Good Friday, अप्रैल 14, 1865, as the American सिविल युद्ध was आरेखण to a बंद.
the assassination occurred five days after the commander of the Confederate Army of Northern Virginia, General रॉबर्ट E. ली, surrendered to लेफ्टिनेंट General Ulysses S. Grant और the Union फौज of the Potomac.
Lincoln was the first अमरीकी अध्यक्ष to be assassinated, हालांकि an unsuccessful attempt था been made on Andrew जैक्सन 30 years before in 1835.
the assassination was नियोजित और carried out by the well-known स्टेज actor जॉन Wilkes Booth, as भाग of a larger conspiracy in a bid to revive the Confederate cause.
बूथ 's co-conspirators यहूद लुईस पावेल और दाउद Herold, जो यहूद आबंटित to kill सचिव of State William H. seward, और George Atzerodt who थी to मार Vice अध्यक्ष एंड्रयू Johnson.
by simultaneously eliminating the शीर्ष three लोगों in the administration, Booth और his co-conspirators hoped to sever the निरंतरता of the United States सरकारी.
Lincoln थी shot जबकि watching the खेल Our अमरीकी cousin साथ his बीवी मरियम Todd lincoln at घाट 's Theatre in वॉशिंगटन, d.C. on the रात्रि of अप्रैल 14, 1865.
He died जल्दी the next morning.
the बाकी of the षड्यंत्रकारियों ' प्लाट failed ; पावेल only managed to wound Seward, जबकि atzerodt, Johnson 's would-be assassin, खोया उसके nerve and fled Washington.
add-on might mean:
Plug-in ( कम्प्यूटिंग ), a piece of software which enhances another software application और प्रायः can नहीं be चलाएं independently
Browser extension, which modifies the interface and/or बर्ताव of web browsers
Add-on ( मोज़िला ), a piece of तन्त्र कि enhances and customizes Mozilla-based अनुप्रयोग
Add-ons लिये Firefox ( addons.mozilla.org ), the official मोज़िला Foundation वेब site which serves as a repository of add-ons for Mozilla-based applications
Peripheral, an optional computer hardware घटक कि significantly supplements or enhances the functionality of the असली ईकाई
Video game accessory, a piece of hardware प्रयुक्त in conjunction साथ a वीडियो game console for playing वीडियो games
क्लबों level seating is a special खण्ड of seating in आधुनिक sports स्टेडियम.
The Club स्तर is usually located towards the middle of the stage of seating भाग, ऊपर the निम्नतर deck but नीचे the अपर डेक.
They are usually right अगला to the लक्ज़री Boxes, either सही above, सही below, or sandwiched between दो स्तर of Luxury बाक्स.
क्लबों स्तर seating is considered as higher class than sitting anywhere else in the एरिना, लकिन lower क्लास compared to the लक्ज़री Boxes.
Unlike the Luxury बाक्स, सबसे क्लबों स्तर do not wrap entirely around the एरिना.
कुछ club स्तर रोकें at a certain पाइंट, giving way to an expansion of the Mezzanine, जबकि अन्य give रास्ता to lower क्लास Luxury Boxes ( such as `` Party Suites '' ).
a notable एक्सेप्शन to this is Emirates स्टेडियम in London, which रै a पूरा टियर of club seating.
क्लबों स्तर allow प्रशंसक multiple स्तर of entertainment.
क्लबों स्तर seating is open to the elements, as opposed to the entirely enclosed luxury boxes, which gives more of an outdoors छाप at roofless and open-roof स्टेडियम and arenas.
Club स्तर seating is सामान्यतः खरीदा on a अनुबंध आधार to allow लिये maximum profit on the भाग of the स्टेडियम.
The Club Level provides प्रशंसक साथ खास अभिगम to an अंदर part of the एरिना विशेष to fans साथ खास टिकटें.
ये क्षेत्रों are air conditioned and allow access to special रेस्तरां, merchandise स्टैंड, और लाउंज क्षेत्रों of the stadium that हैं नहीं वरना उपलब्धियाँ.
रियायत स्टैंड और विक्रेता on the क्लबों Level भी प्रायः प्रस्ताव अलग menus than in other stands to दे more of a special feel to the क्लबों.
These areas हैं बंद off to the बाकी of the stadium, and वे प्रायः can तभी be पहुँचा through the exclusive, निजी club entrances.
sophia लोरेन ( ; born सोफिया Villani scicolone ; 20 सितंबर 1934 ) is an इतालवी अभिनेत्री.
Loren is widely recognized as इटली 's सबसे renowned and honored अभिनेत्री.
वो थी the पहला actress of the talkie era to win an Academy Award for a non-english-speaking प्रदर्शन, for her portrayal of Cesira in vittorio De सिका 's Two Women.
उसके other पुरस्कार शामिल a Grammy Award, पाँच special सुनहरी ग्लोब्स, a bafta Award and a लॉरेल Award.
in 1995 वो प्राप्त the Cecil B. demille Award for आजीवन achievements, one of अनेक such पुरस्कार.
उसके films include : houseboat ( 1958 ), El सीआईडी ( 1961 ), कल, आज और Tomorrow ( 1963 ), विवाह Italian-Style ( 1964 ), and a Special Day ( 1977 ).
In later years वो रै appeared in American blockbusters such as Grumpier Old Men ( 1995 ), and नौ ( 2009 ).
In 1994 she स्ट्रक्चर in Robert Altman 's prêt-à-porter, जिससे अर्जित her a Golden ग्लोब नामांकन the same year.
She रै भी हासिल नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी in tv movies such as हिम्मत ( 1986 ).
Deaths लिये self-inflicted चोटों प्रति 100,000 निवासियों in 2004.
Incidence of suicide is underreported due to दोनो religious and social pressures, और possibly completely unreported in some क्षेत्रों.
nevertheless, इससे reported cases, certain रुझान हैं apparent.
Since the data is skewed, comparing suicide दरों between राष्ट्र is statistically unsound.
The trends themselves हैं नहीं the कारण, but may be indicative of a रूट कारण.
The ओपरा विनफ्रे Leadership अकादमी for लड़कियों - दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी is a मादा बोर्डिंग स्कूल संस्थापित in January 2007 और स्तिथ in henley on Klip निकट Meyerton, south of जोहान्सबर्ग, South Africa.
the अकादमी थी संस्थापित by ओपरा विनफ्रे with the लक्ष्य of providing educational और leadership अवसर लिये academically gifted लड़कियों from impoverished backgrounds.
ओपरा Winfrey Leadership Academy लिये Girls
digicel is a मोबाईल phone network प्रदाता operating in 31 बाज़ार across the caribbean, सेंट्रल अमेरिका, और महासागरीय regions.
the company is स्वामित्व by irishman Denis O'Brien, is incorporated in Bermuda, and आधारित in Jamaica.
It रै परिचय 13 million बेतार users.
As of 2012, digicel 's बाज़ार comprise : Anguilla, अण्टीगुआ and Barbuda, अरूबा, बारबाडोस, Bermuda, Bonaire, the अंग्रेजों Virgin आइलैंड्स, the Cayman आइलैंड्स, Curacao, Dominica, El Salvador, फिजी, French Guiana, हरा, Guadeloupe, गुयाना, हैती, Jamaica, Martinique, Nauru, Panama, Papua New Guinea, समोआ, संत किट्स और नेविस, संत लूसिया, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, सूरीनाम, Tonga, Trinidad & टोबैगो, turks और Caicos, और Vanuatu.
इस is a list of रिकॉर्ड of the फीफा संसार कप and इसके qualification matches.
हॉस्पिटल आपात Codes are प्रयुक्त in अस्पताल worldwide to alert स्टाफ to various emergencies.
the use of कोड is intended to convey अनिवार्य information जल्दी and साथ minimal गलतफहमी to staff, जबकि preventing तनाव and panic among विज़िटर to the हॉस्पिटल.
These कोड may be posted on placards throughout the हॉस्पिटल, or मुद्रित on employee पहचान बैज for तैयार reference.
Back of a hospital ID badge प्रर्दशित disaster कोड.
Hospital आपात codes may denote different कार्यक्रम at different अस्पताल, सहित आसपास ones.
क्युकी many physicians work at more than एक सुविधा, this may lead to confusion in emergencies, so uniform systems have महरूम प्रस्तावित.
the route of the Eifel aqueduct, साथ its औसत slope.
The eifel जलसेतु थी one of the longest aqueducts of the रोमन साम्राज्य.
The जलसेतु, constructed in AD 80, carried जल कुछ from the hilly eifel region of what is now जर्मनी to the ancient city of colonia Claudia आरा Agrippinensium ( present-day Cologne ).
if the auxiliary spurs to additional springs हैं included, the length थी.
The construction थी almost entirely below मैदान, and the flow of the water थी उत्पादित entirely by gravity.
A few bridges, सहित एक up to in लंबाई, were needed to pass over घाटियों.
नापसंद कुछ of the other famous Roman aqueducts, the Eifel aqueduct was specifically designed to minimize the above-ground portion to protect it from क्षति और freezing.
in chemistry, a disulfide बंध ( Br.E. disulphide बंध ) is a covalent bond, usually derived by the coupling of दो thiol समूह.
the linkage is also पुकारा an ss-bond or disulfide सेतु.
the overall connectivity is इसलिए R-S-S-R.
the terminology is widely used in biochemistry.
In औपचारिक शर्तें, the कनेक्शन is a persulfide, in analogy to its congener, परऑक्साइड ( R-O-O-R ), लकिन इस शब्दावली is obscure and is no longer प्रयुक्त ( मगर in सन्दर्भ to R-S-S-H or h-s-s-h यौगिकों ).
Formal चित्रण of disulfide बंध गठन as an oxidation.
वेस्टमिंस्टर Abbey is प्रयुक्त for the राजतिलक of अंग्रेजों monarchs
धर्म in the United किंगडम और in the देशों कि preceded it, रै महरूम वर्चस्व, लिये over 1,400 सालो, by various forms of Christianity.
According to some सर्वेक्षण, a majority of नागरिकों still पहचानो साथ christianity, हालांकि regular गिरिजाघर उपस्थिति has गिरे dramatically since the middle of the 20th century, और immigration and जनसांख्यिकी change have contributed to the विकास of other faiths.
Religious affiliations of uk नागरिकों are अंकित by नियमित surveys, the four major ones being the UK जनसांख्यिकी, the Labour फ़ोर्स Survey, the अंग्रेजों सोशल Attitudes survey और the European सोशल Survey.
According to the 2001 uk जनसांख्यिकी, Christianity is the major धर्म, followed by Islam, हिंदुत्व, sikhism, Judaism और Buddhism in शर्तें of क्रमांक of adherents.
This, और the relatively large number of individuals साथ नाममात्र or no religious संबद्धों has led commentators to variously describe the United Kingdom as a multi-faith, secularised, or post-Christian society.
the United किंगडम थी formed by the संघ of previously independent देशों from 1707, and consequently most of the largest religious groups do नहीं have UK-wide organisational structures.
While कुछ समूह have पृथक structures लिये the व्यक्तिगत देशों of the United Kingdom, अन्य may have a single ढांचा covering England and Wales or Great ब्रिटेन.
similarly, due to the relatively हाल सृष्टि of Northern आयरलैंड in 1921, सबसे major धार्मिक groups in Northern Ireland are organised on an all-ireland आधार.
The 1967 न्यूर्क दंगे were a प्रमुख सिविल disturbance that occurred in the city of न्यूर्क, नई Jersey between जुलाई 12 and जुलाई 17, 1967.
the six दिनों of rioting, लूटने, and विनाश बाएँ 26 मुर्दे and सैंकड़ों घायल.
In United राज्य कॉलेज एथलेटिक्स, redshirt is a delay or बर्खास्तगी of an athlete 's participation in अनुक्रम to lengthen his or उसके काल of पात्रता.
Typically, a छात्र 's एथलेटिक eligibility in a दिए खेल is चार सीज़न, a क्रमांक derived इससे the चार सालो of academic classes that हैं सामान्यतः required to obtain a स्नातक 's उपाधि at an American college or विश्वविद्यालयों.
however, a student खिलाड़ी may be offered the opportunity to redshirt लिये up to two years, which allows the athlete to spread those चार सालो of eligibility over five, or sometimes छह years.
In a redshirt year, a student खिलाड़ी may attend classes at the college or विश्वविद्यालयों, practice with an athletic टोली, और dress लिये खेल लकिन he or she may not compete दौरान the game.
Using इस यांत्रिकी, a student खिलाड़ी has up to five academic सालो to use the four सालो of पात्रता, thus becoming a fifth-year senior.
The term is प्रयुक्त as a क्रिया, noun, और adjective.
लिये example, a कोच may choose to redshirt a खिलाड़ी जो is then referred to as a redshirt freshman or simply a redshirt.
The opposite of this is a `` true freshman. ''
World युद्ध i ( WWI ) थी a वैश्विक युद्ध केंद्रित in Europe that began on 28 जुलाई 1914 and lasted until 11 नवम्बर 1918.
It थी predominantly पुकारा the World युद्ध or the Great War इससे its occurrence until the प्रारंभ of World युद्ध ii in 1939, और the First World War or World युद्ध i thereafter.
it involved सब the world 's great शक्तियां, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the allies ( based on the Triple entente of the United Kingdom, फ़्रांस और Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the ट्रिपल गठबंधन of जर्मनी, austria-hungary और इटली ; but, as austria–hungary था taken the offensive विरूद्ध the agreement, इटली did नहीं डालें into the युद्ध ).
ये alliances यहूद both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the युद्ध : Italy, जापानी and the United राज्य joined the Allies, और the उस्मानी Empire and बुल्गारिया the Central शक्तियां.
ultimately, अधिक than 70 million military personnel, सहित 60 लाख Europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest wars in इतिहास.
अधिक than 9 million combatants were मारे, largely क्युकी of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons बगैर सम्बन्धित सुधार in सुरक्षा or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest विरोध in world history, subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये विभिन्न political changes, ऐसे as revolutions in many of the राष्ट्र involved.
One of the long-term causes of the युद्ध थी the resurgence of साम्राज्यवाद in the foreign policies of the great शक्तियां of Europe.
More तत्काल, the हत्या of archduke फ्रांज Ferdinand of Austria, the heir to the सिंहासन of Austria-Hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by Yugoslav राष्ट्रवादी Gavrilo Princip in साराजेवो triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the किंगडम of सर्बिया.
अनेक alliances formed over the पिछला दशकों यहूद invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers यहूद at war and, via उनके colonies, the conflict जल्द स्प्रेड around the संसार.
on 28 July, the austro-hungarians fired the पहला shots of the युद्ध as तैयारी लिये the invasion of सर्बिया.
जबकि the russians mobilised, the Germans invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम और ध्वज on the way to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli लिये Britain 's घोषणा of युद्ध विरूद्ध जर्मनी.
After the जर्मनी कूच on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the Marne —the Western सामने settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench लकीर that changed little जबतक 1917.
On the Eastern सामने, the Russian army थी successful विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians, but थी रोका in इसके आक्रमण of ईस्ट prussia by the germans.
In November the उस्मानी साम्राज्य joined the war, खोलने up fronts in the काकेशस, Mesopotamia और the sinai.
इटली और बुल्गारिया went to war in 1915 और रोमानिया in 1916.
In Russia, the त्सार 's सरकारी collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms साथ the सेंट्रल शक्तियां.
बाद a 1918 German offensive साथ the western front, the allies drove back the Germans in a श्रेणी of successful offensives और अमरीकी शक्तियां began entering the trenches.
जर्मनी, जिससे था इसके own trouble with क्रांतिकारियों, सहमत to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in victory for the allies.
Events on the home fronts यहूद as tumultuous as on the बैटल fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize their जनशक्ति and आर्थिक resources to लड़ो a total war.
by the समाप्त of the युद्ध, four प्रमुख imperial powers—the German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian और उस्मानी empires—ceased to exist.
The successor राज्य of the पूर्व दो खोया a ग्रेट राशि of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of सेंट्रल यूरोपीय थी redrawn into several smaller राज्य.
The League of राष्ट्र थी formed in the hope of preventing another such conflict.
The यूरोपीय राष्ट्रवाद spawned by the युद्ध और the ब्रेकअप of empires, the परखना of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त and समस्याएं साथ the सन्धि of Versailles are सहमत to be कारकों contributing to संसार युद्ध II.
Map of countries कि घोषित themselves to be socialist राज्य अंतर्गत the marxist–leninist or माओवादी definition - that is to say, `` कम्युनिस्ट states '' - between 1979 और 1983.
This period चिह्नित the महानतम territorial extent of Communist राज्य.
A कम्युनिस्ट राज्य is a राज्य where the means of production हैं collectively स्वामित्व by the society.
It has a form of सरकारी characterized by single-party rule or dominant-party नियम of a communist party ( referred as Dictatorship of the proletariat by its proponents ) and a professed allegiance to a Leninist or Marxist–Leninist ideology as the guiding principle of the state.
technically, `` कम्युनिस्ट राज्य '' is a contradictio in terminis as a कम्युनिस्ट society as defined by both Marxists और anarcho-communists is in principle stateless.
From इस perspective, the पद Marxist-Leninist राज्य is more उचित.
historically, a `` कम्युनिस्ट राज्य '' referred to a system where public स्वामित्व of all or सबसे अर्थात् of production by the Communist party -run state is deemed necessary to further the रूचि of the working क्लास ; today, a कम्युनिस्ट राज्य can also, लिये उदाहरण, refer to समकालीन चीन और Vietnam, where a Communist party-run state exists alongside a मिश्रित अर्थव्यवस्था.
according to marxist–leninists, the state is a औजार in the hands of the ruling क्लास, which in a समाजवादी society is the working क्लास, so a समाजवादी state is, according to Leninists, a state of the working class.
in अभ्यास, communist states do not actually refer to themselves as ऐसे.
वे do this नहीं to भेस the fact कि the सत्ताधारी party is कम्युनिस्ट, लकिन बल्कि because वे do not consider themselves to be a communist समाज at उपस्थित.
बजाय, वे constitutionally identify themselves as socialist राज्य or workers ' states.
the प्राथमिक goal of ये states, जिससे also explains their आधिकारिक नाम, is to guide उनके respective देशों in the process of building socialism, ultimately अग्रणी to communism.
Communist राज्य may have अनेक legal political पार्टियों, लकिन the communist party is प्रायः granted a खास or प्रबल role in government, प्रायः by statute or under the constitution.
Consequently, the institutions of the state and of the कम्युनिस्ट party become intimately entwined, ऐसे as in the development of parallel institutions.
In the 20th सदी, सबसे कम्युनिस्ट राज्य adopted नियोजित economies.
However, there यहूद exceptions : the Soviet संघ दौरान the 1920s and late 1980s and Yugoslavia after संसार युद्ध ii allowed सीमित बाज़ार and a उपाधि of worker self-management, जबकि China, वियतनाम and लाओस introduced far-reaching मार्केट reforms after the 1980s.
in the 21st century, China और वियतनाम have अनुमत a मिश्रित अर्थव्यवस्था to develop.
the आधारभूत अवधारणाओं of communist states प्रायः diverge from the असली socio-economic ideologies इससे जिससे they develop.
as a result, many adherents of these विचारधाराओं प्रायः oppose the राजनैतिक systems commonly associated साथ these states.
For example, dissenting communists such as trotskyists यहूद often opposed to the communist राज्य of the 20th century, claiming either कि they था nothing to do with `` real '' communism or that the ideology of such राज्य had पहुँचे a पाइंट of अटल corruption.
Michael फ्रेड Phelps II ( born June 30, 1985 ) is a रिटायर्ड अमरीकी तैराक और the most decorated ओलंपियन of all time, साथ a कुल of 22 medals.
Phelps also holds the all-time रिकॉर्ड लिये ओलम्पिक gold medals ( 18, double the दूसरी उच्चतम record धारकों ), Olympic gold medals in व्यक्तिगत कार्यक्रम ( 11 ), and ओलम्पिक medals in individual कार्यक्रम for a male ( 13 ).
In जीतना आठ gold medals at the 2008 बीजिंग खेल, Phelps took the रिकार्ड लिये the most first-place finishes at कोई सिंगल ओलम्पिक Games.
पाँच of those victories were in व्यक्तिगत events, tying the सिंगल खेल रिकार्ड.
in the 2012 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक in London, Phelps won four golds और दो silver medals, making him the most successful athlete of the Games लिये the third Olympics in a पंक्ति.
Phelps is the long कोर्स संसार recordholder in the 100-meter butterfly, 200-meter butterfly और 400-meter individual medley as खूब as the पूर्व long course world recordholder in the 200-meter freestyle and 200-meter individual medley.
he रै जीती a total of 71 medals in प्रमुख international long-course प्रतियोगिता, 57 सुनहरा, 11 चांदी, and three कांस्य spanning the ओलंपिक, the World, and the पण Pacific championships.
Phelps 's international शीर्षक and record-breaking प्रदर्शन have earned him the संसार Swimmer of the साल पुरस्कार seven times and अमरीकी तैराक of the साल पुरस्कार nine times as well as the फिना Swimmer of the Year पुरस्कार in 2012.
उसके unprecedented ओलम्पिक कामयाबी in 2008 अर्जित फेल्प्स Sports Illustrated magazine 's sportsman of the साल पुरस्कार.
बाद the 2008 गर्मियाँ Olympics, Phelps प्रारंभ the माइकल फेल्प्स Foundation, which focuses on growing the sport of swimming and promoting healthier lifestyles.
He expects to do further कार्य साथ his न्यास after the 2012 Olympics, जिससे he रै कहा होगा be उसके पिछला.
लेनोवो Group Limited ( ) is a चाइनीज बहुराष्ट्रीय computer hardware and electronics कम्पनी with इसके मुख्यालय in बीजिंग, China and morrisville, उत्तर कैरोलिना and its registered office in Hong Kong, चीन.
इसके उत्पाद include personal कंप्यूटर, tablet computers, मोबाईल फोन, workstations, servers, electronic भंडार devices, IT प्रबन्धन तन्त्र और smart televisions.
लेनोवो is the संसार 's second-largest PC विक्रेता by 2012 ईकाई sales.
it markets the थिंकपैड लकीर of notebook कंप्यूटर और the thinkcentre line of desktops.
Lenovo रै operations in अधिक than 60 countries और बिकता its उत्पाद in around 160 देशों.
Lenovo थी founded in बीजिंग in 1984 और incorporated in हांग काँग in 1988 अंतर्गत इसके पिछला नाम, Legend.
लेनोवो is सूचीबद्ध on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the Hang सेंग china-affiliated corporations अनुक्रमणिका.
स्लग is a common name लिये an apparently shell-less स्थलीय gastropod mollusk.
the word `` slug '' is भी often प्रयुक्त as part of the common name of कोई gastropod mollusc कि रै no शेल, रै a very घटाया शेल, or has तभी a small internal shell.
( इस is in कंट्रास्ट to the आम name `` घोंघा ``, जिससे is लागू to gastropods कि have a नतीजे shell कि is large enough that the soft भाग of the एनिमल can retract fully into it. )
slugs मौजूद on land and in the sea, और there is even one genus of freshwater slugs, Acochlidium.
The unadorned शब्द `` slug '' is however लागू primarily to जमीन slugs, whereas slugs इससे the sea or इससे freshwater are usually referred to as `` समुद्र slugs `` और `` freshwater slugs ''.
Land gastropods with a shell कि is नहीं काफी vestigial, लकिन is too छोटी to retract into ( जैसे अनेक in the family urocyclidae ), हैं known as semislugs.
the various taxonomic families of slugs form भाग of अनेक quite अलग विकासवादी lineages जिससे भी include घोंघे.
Thus, for उदाहरण, the विभिन्न families of land slugs हैं नहीं बहुत closely सम्बन्धित to एक another, despite a superficial similarity in the overall body रूप.
The shell-less condition has arisen अनेक times independently दौरान the विकासवादी पास्ट, and thus the category `` स्लग '' is emphatically a polyphyletic one.
slugs, like all other gastropods, undergo torsion ( a 180° twisting of the internal organs ) during development.
Internally, slug anatomy clearly shows the effects of इस rotation, but externally the लाशें of जमीन slugs appear to be more or less सममित, except लिये the positioning of the pneumostome, जिससे is on one side of the animal, सामान्यतः the right hand side.
The soft, slimy लाशें of slugs हैं prone to desiccation, so land-living slugs हैं confined to नम environments और जरूर रिट्रीट to damp hiding स्थान जब the मौसम is dry.
The subsequent information in इस article applies to land slugs.
is a Latin शब्द that means `` thus '' or, in लिखने, `` it थी यूँ in the सोर्स सामग्री ''.
sic may भी refer to:
sic, cluj, a कम्यून in रोमानिया
SIC, the regional code for सिसिली
Sic ( रव कलाकार ), styled as [ sic ], स्टेज नाम of जेनिफर मॉरिस, a कनाडाई रव कलाकार
Sic ( band ) is a आधुनिक Hardcore/Thrash मेटल बैंड from Torshavn, the पूंजी of the फरो आइलैंड्स
`` ( sic ) '', a सोंग by American band Slipknot on the एल्बम slipknot
SIC, the आरंभिक of मार्को Simoncelli.
sic as an acronym may stand for:
sic, Silicon carbide, a semiconducting material, also used to मेक धातुकर्म टूल्स
sic ( cyclecar ) ( Società इटालियाना Cyclecars )
Standard औद्योगिक Classification, a 20th-century u.S. system for classifying उद्योग
अंतरराष्ट्रीय Standard औद्योगिक Classification a UN system for आर्थिक activities
Shetland Islands परिषद
the स्विस Interbank clearing system
सैन Isidro Club, an Argentine rugby संघ क्लबों
Standing Interpretation कमेटी, a committee समर्पित to the निर्वचन of अंतरराष्ट्रीय हिसाब मानकों IFRS
Schwarz सूचना मानदंड in the field of statistics
Second-in-command in the field of aviation
Sistema interconectado सेंट्रल power ग्रिड in Chile
sociedade Independente de Comunicação ( SIC ), a television channel in पुर्तगाल
समुद्र Isle City, New Jersey, a तटीय कस्बा in the संयुक्त States
Segmented पूर्णांक Counter विधि, a mode of आपरेशन in क्रिप्टोग्राफी
sepang International सर्किट, a high-end racetrack कि hosts the Malaysian गोलाकार of Formula 1
शंघाई International Circuit, a motor रेसिंग स्थान in शंघाई, China
सरलीकृत निर्देशात्मक कंप्यूटर, a काल्पनिक कंप्यूटर प्रयुक्त in प्रणालियों programming
SIC ( बेटे Idées Couleurs ), an जल्दी twentieth-century आर्ट पत्रिका उत्पादित by फ्रेंच author Pierre albert-birot
southeastern Illinois College, a two साल जूनियर कॉलेज in Harrisburg, Illinois, United States
विशिष्ट आगमनात्मक capacity, abbreviated to SIC, which is अधिक commonly ज्ञात as the सापेक्ष विद्युतशीलता or the dielectric constant
St Ignatius ' कॉलेज, riverview, a जेसुइट school in सिडनी, ऑस्ट्रेलिया
Imperial मानक of नेपोलियन I
Napoleon बोनापार्ट (, ; 15 अगस्त 1769 – 5 may 1821 ) was a फ्रेंच military और political leader who rose to prominence during the latter stages of the फ्रेंच Revolution and its associated युद्धों in यूरोपीय.
as नेपोलियन I, he was Emperor of the फ्रेंच from 1804 to 1815.
His विधिक सुधार, the Napoleonic कोड, रै महरूम a प्रमुख influence on many सिविल law jurisdictions worldwide, लकिन he is best remembered लिये उसके भूमिका in the युद्धों led विरूद्ध France by a series of coalitions, the so-called napoleonic युद्धों.
he established hegemony over most of continental Europe और sought to spread the ideals of the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति, while consolidating an इम्पीरियल साम्राज्य जिससे restored aspects of the अपदस्थ ancien régime.
due to उसके कामयाबी in these wars, often against numerically superior enemies, he is generally regarded as एक of the महानतम सैन्य commanders of all time, और उसके campaigns हैं studied at सैन्य अकादमियों worldwide.
नेपोलियन थी born at ajaccio in corsica in a family of प्रतिष्ठित Italian ancestry which had settled corsica in the 16th century.
He प्रशिक्षित as an तोपखाने अधिकारी in mainland फ़्रांस.
he रोज़ to prominence अंतर्गत the फ्रेंच First गणतंत्र and led कामयाब campaigns against the पहला और दूसरी Coalitions arrayed against फ़्रांस.
He led a कामयाब आक्रमण of the इतालवी peninsula.
in 1799, he staged a तख्तापलट d'état and संस्थापित खुद as First कौंसुल ; five सालो बाद the French सीनेट proclaimed उसे emperor, following a plebiscite in उसके favour.
in the first दशक of the 19th सदी, the French Empire अंतर्गत नेपोलियन engaged in a series of conflicts—the napoleonic Wars —that involved every प्रमुख European शक्ति.
बाद a streak of victories, France secured a प्रबल position in महाद्वीपीय Europe, और Napoleon कायम the फ्रेंच गोला of influence through the formation of extensive alliances और the नियुक्ति of friends और परिवार सदस्यों to rule अन्य European देशों as French क्लाएंट राज्य.
The Peninsular युद्ध और 1812 फ्रेंच आक्रमण of रूस चिह्नित turning points in Napoleon 's fortunes.
His ग्रांडे Armée थी badly damaged in the अभियान और never fully recovered.
in 1813, the छठे Coalition defeated उसके forces at लिपजिग ; the following year the Coalition invaded फ़्रांस, forced नेपोलियन to abdicate and exiled उसे to the island of एल्बा.
कम than a साल बाद, he escaped एल्बा और लौटे to power, but was पराजित at the Battle of Waterloo in जून 1815.
नेपोलियन spent the last six years of his life in कारावास by the British on the island of Saint हेलेना.
An पोस्टमार्टम concluded he died of stomach कर्कट, but वहीँ रै been कुछ बहस परिचय the कारण of his death, as कुछ विद्वानों have speculated कि he was a शिकार of आर्सेनिक विषाक्तता.
इस is a chronological लिस्टिंग of the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटरों from Pennsylvania.
United States Senators हैं popularly elected, लिये a six-year term, beginning January 3.
Elections are आयोजित the first Tuesday after November 1.
Before 1914, they यहूद chosen by the Pennsylvania सामान्य Assembly, and before 1935, उनके terms began March 4.
the दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी नेशनल रग्बी संघ team ( ज्ञात as the springboks ) represents South Africa in rugby union.
वे compete in the annual Rugby चैंपियनशिप, along with southern-hemisphere counterparts अर्जेंटीना, Australia और New Zealand.
They have जीती इस चैंपियनशिप on तीन occasions in सोलह सालो.
They हैं currently ranked दूसरी in the संसार by the International Rugby फलक, and were नामित 2008 संसार Team of the साल at the Laureus संसार खेल पुरस्कार.
हालांकि दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी थी इंस्ट्रूमेंटल in the सृष्टि of the Rugby World कप competition, the springboks did नहीं compete in the first two World Cups in 1987 and 1991 because of anti-apartheid sporting boycotts of दक्षिण Africa.
The टोली बना its संसार कप debut in 1995, जब the newly लोकतांत्रिक दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी hosted the tournament.
the springboks then पराजित the All Blacks 15–12 in the फाइनल, which is अभी remembered as एक of the महानतम moments in South Africa 's sporting इतिहास, और a watershed पल in the post-apartheid nation-building process.
South अफ़्रीकी regained their title as champions 12 सालो later, जब they पराजित इंग्लैण्ड 15–6 in the 2007 फाइनल.
as a result of the 2007 संसार Cup tournament the springboks यहूद प्रचारित to पहला place in the IRB संसार Rankings, a स्थिति वे held जबतक जुलाई the following year जब New जीलैंड regained the शीर्ष spot.
the springboks खेल in green and सुनहरा jerseys, and उनके emblems हैं the springbok and the protea.
the पक्ष has been playing international रग्बी since 1891, when a अंग्रेजों Isles पक्ष toured the nation, playing South अफ़्रीकी in their first Test on 30 जुलाई.
दक्षिण Africa was coached by जेक White, जो led the Boks to the 2007 World कप शीर्षक, announcing his इस्तीफा effectively from the समाप्त of 2007.
उसके बदलना 's ( Peter de Villiers ) अनुबंध expired in 2011, following a 11–9 शिकस्त to ऑस्ट्रेलिया in the रग्बी World कप quarter-final, जो तब stated he होता not be हस्ताक्षर a new deal.
the previous captain थी जॉन Smit, who पहले he रिटायर्ड in 2011 played वेश्या for most of उसके career, although he रै also been a prop, mainly in 2008 और 2009.
Due to Smit होने unavailable लिये the November 2010 परीक्षण बाद surgery, ताला विक्टर Matfield took Smit 's place as captain for that tour.
the current captain is Jean de Villiers.
the बैटल of Gettysburg (, with an sound ), थी लड़ा July 1–3, 1863, in और around the town of gettysburg, Pennsylvania.
it थी the battle with the largest number of हताहत in the अमरीकी सिविल War and is often वर्णित as the war 's turning point.
संघ Maj. gen. George Gordon meade 's फौज of the potomac पराजित हमले by confederate Gen. रॉबर्ट E. ली 's Army of Northern Virginia, समाप्ति ली 's invasion of the North.
After his success at chancellorsville in वर्जिनिया in may 1863, Lee led उसके फौज through the shenandoah घाटी to begin his दूसरी आक्रमण of the north—the gettysburg Campaign.
साथ उसके फौज in ऊँची आत्माओं, ली intended to shift the फ़ोकस of the गर्मियाँ अभियान इससे war-ravaged northern Virginia and hoped to influence Northern politicians to give up their अभियोजन of the war by penetrating as far as harrisburg, पेन्सिलवेनिया, or even Philadelphia.
prodded by अध्यक्ष अब्राहम lincoln, maj. Gen. Joseph Hooker स्थानांतरित उसके army in pursuit, but was relieved बस तीन days before the बैटल and replaced by Meade.
Elements of the दो armies initially collided at Gettysburg on जुलाई 1, 1863, as ली तत्काल concentrated his forces वहीँ, his उद्देश्य being to engage the Union फौज और destroy it.
कम ridges to the northwest of town were defended initially by a संघ प्यादे division अंतर्गत Brig. gen. जॉन Buford, and soon reinforced साथ two corps of Union infantry.
However, दो large confederate corps assaulted उन्हें इससे the northwest and उत्तर, collapsing the hastily developed Union lines, sending the defenders retreating through the streets of town to the hills बस to the south.
On the second day of battle, सबसे of दोनो सेना था समवेत.
The Union line थी रखी out in a defensive formation resembling a fishhook.
in the late afternoon of July 2, Lee launched a भारी assault on the Union left flank, और fierce fighting raged at छोटी गोलाकार शीर्ष, the wheatfield, Devil 's Den, and the आड़ू बाग़.
On the संघ right, demonstrations escalated into full-scale assaults on culp 's हिल and कब्रिस्तान Hill.
All across the battlefield, despite significant losses, the संघ defenders held their lines.
On the third day of बैटल, July 3, लड़ resumed on Culp 's हिल, और प्यादे लड़ाइयों raged to the east and दक्षिण, but the main event was a नाटकीय infantry assault by 12,500 Confederates against the बीच of the संघ लकीर on कब्रिस्तान Ridge, known as पिकेट 's Charge.
the charge थी repulsed by संघ rifle and artillery आग, at ग्रेट losses to the Confederate army.
Lee led उसके फौज on a torturous retreat back to Virginia.
Between 46,000 और 51,000 soldiers इससे both सेना were हताहत in the three-day battle.
कि November, अध्यक्ष lincoln प्रयुक्त the समर्पण रस्म for the gettysburg नेशनल Cemetery to honor the fallen संघ soldiers and redefine the purpose of the युद्ध in his historic gettysburg पता.
An academic discipline, or फ़ील्ड of पढ़ाई, is a branch of ज्ञान that is सिखाया और शोधकार्य at the कॉलेज or university level.
Disciplines are पारिभाषित ( in भाग ), and पहचाना by the academic journals in which शोध is प्रकाशित, और the learned societies and academic विभाग or faculties to जिससे their practitioners belong.
However, वहीँ exists no औपचारिक criteria for जब शैक्षणिक कार्यक्रम and scholarly journals रूप an अकादमिक discipline.
a huge अंतर exists between, on the one hand, well established disciplines that मौजूद in almost सब विश्वविद्यालयों all over the world, have a long इतिहास, और have a well established set of journals और सम्मेलनों, and, on the other हाथ, सुझाव for नई फ़ील्ड समर्थित only by few विश्वविद्यालयों और publications.
फ़ील्ड of study usually have several sub-disciplines or branches, और the distinguishing लाइनों between these हैं often both arbitrary और अस्पष्ट.
PHP is a server-side scripting भाषा designed लिये web विकास but also प्रयुक्त as a general-purpose प्रोग्रामिंग language.
पीएचपी is अभी installed on अधिक than 244 लाख websites और 2.1 million web servers.
Originally निर्मित by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1995, the सन्दर्भ implementation of PHP is अभी उत्पादित by the PHP समूह.
जबकि पीएचपी originally stood लिये Personal Home पेज, it now stands लिये PHP : Hypertext Preprocessor, a recursive acronym.
PHP कोड is interpreted by a web सर्वर with a पीएचपी processor मोड्यूल which generates the resulting वेब पेज : पीएचपी कमांड can be अंतःस्थापित directly into an एचटीएमएल source दस्तावेज़ बल्कि than कॉलिंग an external file to process data.
it has भी विकसित to शामिल a command-line इंटरफ़ेस capability और can be used in standalone आलेखीय applications.
पीएचपी is फ़्री तन्त्र released अंतर्गत the PHP अनुज्ञा, which is असंगत with the ग्नू General Public License ( GPL ) due to प्रतिबंध on the उपयोग of the term PHP.
PHP can be तैनात on सबसे वेब सर्वर and also as a standalone शेल on almost प्रत्येक operating system and मंच, फ़्री of चार्ज.
जॉन Fitzgerald `` जोकर '' कैनेडी ( may 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963 ), often referred to by उसके initials jfk, थी the 35th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States, सेवारत from 1961 जबतक his मौत in 1963.
After सैन्य सेवा as commander of the मोटर Torpedo Boats pt-109 and pt-59 दौरान संसार War II in the South प्रशांत, Kennedy represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional ज़िला in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a डेमोक्रेट.
thereafter, he परोसा in the U.S. Senate from 1953 जबतक 1960.
कैनेडी defeated Vice अध्यक्ष and रिपब्लिकन candidate रिचर्ड Nixon in the 1960 u.S. presidential election.
At 43 years of आयु, he is the youngest to have been elected to the office, the second-youngest अध्यक्ष ( बाद थियोडोर Roosevelt ), and the first person born in the 20th century to serve as president.
A कैथोलिक, Kennedy is the only non- प्रोटोस्टेंट president, और is the only अध्यक्ष to have जीती a Pulitzer पुरस्कार.
Events during his प्रेसिडेंसी शामिल the Bay of सूअर आक्रमण, the Cuban Missile संकट, the building of the बर्लिन वॉल, the Space रेस, the african-american Civil अधिकारों गति, and जल्दी चरण of the वियतनाम War.
Therein, कैनेडी increased the number of military advisers, खास आपरेशन शक्तियां, और helicopters in an प्रयत्न to कोर the स्प्रेड of साम्यवादी in दक्षिण East Asia.
The Kennedy administration adopted the policy of the रणनीतिक हैमलेट Program जिससे was implemented by the दक्षिण Vietnamese government.
it involved certain मजबूर relocation, गाँव internment, and पृथक्करण of ग्रामीण दक्षिण Vietnamese from the northern and दक्षिणी कम्युनिस्ट insurgents.
Kennedy थी assassinated on नवम्बर 22, 1963 in डलास, Texas.
ली घनघोर ओसवाल्ड थी charged साथ the crime, but he was shot और मारे by Jack माणिक्य two days बाद, पहले a विचारण could take place.
The FBI और the Warren Commission officially concluded that Oswald was the lone assassin.
However, the United States हाउस चुनें कमेटी on assassinations ( HSCA ) concluded कि those investigations यहूद flawed और कि कैनेडी थी probably assassinated as the परिणाम of a षड्यंत्र.
however, एबीसी न्यूज in उनके छानबीन, The Kennedy Assassination : परे Conspiracy, पुष्टि the निष्कर्षों of the Warren आयोग ; having concluded Oswald acted अलोन.
Kennedy 's विवादास्पद विभाग of रक्षा tfx fighter bomber program led to a Congressional investigation कि lasted इससे 1963 to 1970.
चूंकि the 1960s information concerning Kennedy 's private जीवन रै आइये to light.
विवरण of Kennedy 's health समस्याएं in which he struggled have become बेहतर known, especially since the 1990s.
Although initially kept रहस्य इससे the general पब्लिक, रिपोर्ट्स of Kennedy 's philandering have garnered much press.
कैनेडी बाँधने highly in पब्लिक राय ratings of U.S. राष्ट्रपतियों.
`` स्टैंड by me '' is a सोंग originally performed by Ben E. King and लिखा by किंग, Jerry leiber, और माइक Stoller, प्रेरित by the आध्यात्मिक `` Lord स्टैंड by me, '' प्लस two lines rooted in Psalms 46:2–3.
There have been over 400 recorded संस्करण of the song.
A राजनैतिक cartoon इससे an 1894 पक पत्रिका by इलस्ट्रेटर s.d. Ehrhart, shows a farm woman labeled `` Democratic पार्टी '' sheltering इससे a बवंडर of political change.
A metaphor is a फिगर of वाक that describes a subject by asserting कि it is, on कुछ point of comparison, the वही as another वरना unrelated ऑब्जेक्ट.
Metaphor is a type of सादृश्य and is closely सम्बन्धित to other rhetorical आंकड़े of speech that achieve their effects via association, तुलना or resemblance including allegory, hyperbole, और simile.
In simpler terms, a रूपक compares two objects or things बगैर using the words `` like '' or `` as ''.
एक of the most prominent उदाहरण of a metaphor in English साहित्य is the All the संसार 's a stage monologue from As तुम जैसे It :
सब the संसार 's a स्टैगe,
और all the men and women merely players ;
They have their exits and their entrances ; — William Shakespeare, as You जैसे It, 2/7
This उद्धरण is a metaphor because the संसार is नहीं literally a stage.
by figuratively asserting that the world is a स्टेज, Shakespeare uses the points of तुलना between the संसार and a स्टेज to convey an समझना about the mechanics of the world and the जीवनदान of the people भीतर it.
Mount फुजी, इससे the thirty-six दृश्य of Mount Fuji, रंग woodcut by Katsushika Hokusai
rembrandt van Rijn, self-portrait, etching, c.1630
Francisco गोया, There is No One To Help Them, आपदाओं of War series, aquatint c.1810
Felix Vallotton, la raison probante ( The cogent कारण ), woodcut इससे the श्रेणी intimités, 1898
printmaking is the process of बनाना artworks by मुद्रण, normally on paper.
Printmaking normally covers तभी the process of creating prints साथ an element of मौलिकता, rather than just being a photographic reproduction of a पेंटिंग.
Except in the case of monotyping, the प्रक्रम is सक्षम of producing multiples of the same टुकड़ा, जिससे is पुकारा a print.
प्रत्येक छपाई produced is नहीं considered a `` नक़ल '' but बल्कि is माना an `` original ''.
This is because typically each छपाई varies to an extent due to परिवर्तनीय intrinsic to the printmaking process, और भी because the imagery of a छपाई is typically not simply a reproduction of another work लकिन बल्कि is प्रायः a unique चित्र designed इससे the start to be expressed in a particular printmaking तकनीक.
a print may be known as an impression.
Printmaking ( अन्य than monotyping ) is not chosen only लिये its क्षमता to produce multiple impressions, but बल्कि for the अद्वितीय qualities कि each of the printmaking processes lends itself to.
prints are created by transferring स्याही from a matrix or through a prepared screen to a sheet of पेपर or other सामग्री.
आम types of matrices शामिल : metal plates, usually तांबे or zinc, or polymer plates लिये engraving or etching ; स्टोन, एल्यूमिनियम, or पॉलिमर लिये lithography ; ब्लॉक of लकडी for woodcuts और लकडी engravings ; और linoleum लिये linocuts.
screens made of silk or synthetic fabrics हैं used लिये the screenprinting प्रक्रम.
अन्य प्रकार of मेट्रिक्स substrates and सम्बन्धित प्रक्रियाओं are discussed below.
Multiple impressions printed इससे the वही मेट्रिक्स रूप an संस्करण.
चूंकि the लेट 19th century, artists have generally signed individual impressions इससे an edition और often number the impressions to form a limited edition.
prints may also be printed in book रूप, such as illustrated books or कलाकार 's books.
Il divo is an अंग्रेज़ी बहुराष्ट्रीय operatic pop vocal समूह निर्मित by म्यूज़िक मैनेजर, कार्यपालिका, and वास्तविकता TV star साइमन cowell.
formed in the संयुक्त किंगडम, they are also signed to cowell 's record label, Syco Music.
il Divo is a group of four पुरूष गायकों : French पॉप singer सेबेस्तियन Izambard, Spanish baritone कार्लोस marín, अमरीकी टेनर दाउद मिलर, और Swiss tenor Urs Bühler.
To date, they have बेची अधिक than 26 million albums विश्वव्यापी.
su-15, one of the प्रिंसिपल सोवियत एयर रक्षा interceptors in the 1970s और 1980s
an interceptor वायुयान ( or बस interceptor ) is a प्रकार of सेनानी aircraft designed specifically to prevent मिशन of enemy वायुयान, particularly बमवर्षक and reconnaissance aircraft, and नष्ट them, relying प्रायः on great गति और शक्तिशाली armament.
Being used since the First संसार War, बाद the लेट 1960s, interceptors became less important due to shifting इससे bombers to intercontinental ballistic missiles ( icbms ) for nuclear warfare.
a वियतनामी अमरीकी ( ) is an American of Vietnamese descent.
वे make up about half of all overseas Vietnamese ( Người việt hải Ngoại ) और हैं the fourth-largest Asian अमरीकी समूह.
द्रव्यमान वियतनामी आव्रजन to the संयुक्त राज्य started after 1975, after the समाप्त of the वियतनाम युद्ध.
Early immigrants were शरणार्थी boat people fleeing persecution or poverty.
Forced to flee from उनके मातृभूमि और often thrust into poor शहरी neighborhoods, these newcomers have nevertheless प्रबंधित to establish दमदार communities in a short amount of समय.
अधिक than साठ प्रतिशत of वियतनामी Americans reside in the राज्य of California, Texas, वॉशिंगटन, फ्लोरिडा, और वर्जिनिया.
Front page of the U.S. हथियारबंद शक्तियां समाचारपत्र, Stars and Stripes, 2 may 1945
एडोल्फ Hitler वचनबद्ध आत्महत्या by gunshot on 30 April 1945 in उसके führerbunker in बर्लिन.
His बीवी Eva ( née braun ) committed suicide साथ him by ingesting साइनाइड.
That afternoon, in accordance with Hitler 's prior instructions, उनके remains were carried up the stairs through the बंकर 's emergency exit, doused in पेट्रोल and नियत alight in the Reich chancellery गार्डन outside the bunker.
the सोवियत archives रिकार्ड कि their burnt remains were बरामद और interred in successive locations जबतक 1970 जब वे were again exhumed, cremated and the राख scattered.
खाते differ as to the कारण of मौत ; एक कि he died by poison तभी और another कि he died by a self-inflicted gunshot, while biting bas on a साइनाइड कैप्सूल.
समकालीन इतिहासकारों have rejected ये accounts as being either सोवियत प्रचार or an attempted सुलह in order to reconcile the different conclusions.
One eye-witness अंकित कि the देह दिखाया signs of having महरूम shot through the mouth, लकिन this रै been proven unlikely.
There is also विवाद regarding the authenticity of कपाल और jaw fragments जिससे यहूद recovered.
In 2009, डीएनए tests were performed on a कपाल Soviet officials था long believed to be हिटलर 's.
the परीक्षण नाज़िल that the कपाल थी दरअसल कि of a स्त्री less than 40 years बूढ़ा.
Location of मिसौरी
the दारू कानून of Missouri हैं among the तनिक प्रतिबंधक and सबसे lax and permissive in the संयुक्त States.
मिसौरी is ज्ञात throughout the मिडवेस्ट for its largely laissez-faire approach to दारू विनियमन, in sharp कंट्रास्ट to the very strict दारू laws of कुछ of its पड़ोसी, like Kansas और ओक्लाहोमा.
necrotizing fasciitis ( or ) or NF, commonly known as flesh-eating disease or flesh-eating bacteria सिंड्रोम, is a विरल infection of the deeper layers of स्किन and subcutaneous ऊतकों, easily spreading आरपार the fascial प्लेन within the subcutaneous tissue.
necrotizing fasciitis is जल्दी progressing, having greater रिस्क of विकासशील in the immunocompromised due to शर्तें जैसे मधुमेह, कर्कट, इत्यादि.
It is a कठोर बीमारी of अचानक onset and is प्रायः treated immediately with ऊँची doses of intravenous antibiotics.
Type i describes a polymicrobial संक्रमण, whereas Type ii describes a monomicrobial संक्रमण.
Many प्रकार of जीवाणु can कारण necrotizing fasciitis ( e.g., Group A streptococcus ( Streptococcus pyogenes ), staphylococcus aureus, clostridium perfringens, Bacteroides fragilis, aeromonas hydrophila ).
Such infections हैं अधिक संभावित to occur in लोगों with compromised प्रतिरक्षा प्रणालियों.
historically, समूह a streptococcus made up सबसे मामले of Type II infections.
however, चूंकि as जल्दी as 2001, another serious रूप of monomicrobial necrotizing fasciitis रै been observed with increasing frequency, caused by methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus ( मरसा ).
Some published case reports have implied a संभावित कड़ी between उपयोग of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory दवाएँ and NF, though the evidence of the link was said to be weak क्युकी of a छोटी number of case patients और it was unclear whether the drugs just नकाबपोश the symptoms of a द्वितीयक infection or were a cause per se.
संसार युद्ध ii ( wwii or WW2 ), भी known as the Second World युद्ध, थी a वैश्विक युद्ध that lasted इससे 1939 to 1945.
It शामिल the विशाल बहुमत of the संसार 's nations —including all of the great शक्तियां —eventually forming दो opposing military alliances : the allies और the अक्ष.
it थी the सबसे widespread युद्ध in इतिहास, with more than 100 लाख people serving in सैन्य इकाई from over 30 different देशों.
in a state of `` total war ``, the major participants लगाई उनके entire आर्थिक, industrial, and वैज्ञानिक सामर्थ्य at the सेवा of the war प्रयत्न, erasing the distinction between civilian and military संसाधन.
Marked by द्रव्यमान मौतों of नागरिकों, including the holocaust and the तभी उपयोग of नाभिकीय weapons in warfare, it resulted in 50 लाख to over 75 लाख fatalities.
ये deaths make World युद्ध ii by दूर the deadliest conflict in human इतिहास.
the साम्राज्य of जापानी aimed to dominate ईस्ट Asia and थी already at war with the गणतंत्र of चीन in 1937, but the संसार युद्ध is generally said to have begun on 1 सितंबर 1939 साथ the invasion of Poland by Germany और subsequent घोषणाओं of युद्ध on जर्मनी by फ़्रांस और Britain.
इससे लेट 1939 to जल्दी 1941, in a series of campaigns and treaties, Germany formed the अक्ष alliance with इटली, conquering or subduing much of continental Europe.
following the molotov–ribbentrop अनुबंध, Germany और the सोवियत Union partitioned and annexed territories between themselves of उनके European पड़ोसी, सहित कैंडल.
the संयुक्त Kingdom and the other members of the अंग्रेजों Commonwealth were the only major Allied शक्तियां continuing the fight विरूद्ध the Axis, साथ लड़ाइयों taking प्लेस in North अफ़्रीकी as well as the long-running बैटल of the अटलांटिक.
in जून 1941, the European अक्ष शुभारम्भ an invasion of the सोवियत संघ, giving a start to the largest land theatre of war in history, which tied bas the major भाग of the अक्ष ' military forces for the rest of the युद्ध.
in December 1941, Japan joined the अक्ष, attacked the संयुक्त राज्य और European territories in the Pacific Ocean, and quickly conquered much of the Western प्रशांत.
the Axis अग्रिम was रोका in 1942, after Japan lost a श्रेणी of naval battles and European Axis सैनिकों were defeated in उत्तर Africa and, decisively, at stalingrad.
in 1943, with a श्रेणी of जर्मनी defeats in पूर्वी यूरोपीय, the अलाइड invasion of इटली, और American victories in the प्रशांत, the अक्ष lost the initiative और undertook strategic रिट्रीट on all fronts.
in 1944, the पश्चिमी allies invaded France, while the Soviet संघ regained सब of इसके territorial नुकसान and invaded Germany और its allies.
दौरान 1944 और 1945 the संयुक्त राज्य पराजित the Japanese Navy and captured कुंजी पश्चिमी Pacific islands.
the war in Europe ended with the capture of बर्लिन by सोवियत and पॉलिश troops and the subsequent जर्मनी unconditional surrender on 8 May 1945.
following the पॉट्सडैम घोषणा by the allies on 26 जुलाई 1945, the संयुक्त States dropped atomic बम on the Japanese शहरों of हिरोशिमा on 6 August, and नागासाकी on 9 अगस्त.
साथ an आक्रमण of the जापानी द्वीपसमूह imminent, और the सोवियत Union having घोषित war on Japan by invading मंचूरिया, Japan surrendered on 15 August 1945, ending the युद्ध in Asia and cementing the कुल विजय of the allies over the Axis.
World War II altered the political alignment and social ढांचा of the संसार.
the संयुक्त Nations ( UN ) थी established to फोस्टर अंतरराष्ट्रीय सहयोग और prevent भविष्य conflicts.
the ग्रेट powers that यहूद the victors of the war—the संयुक्त States, the Soviet संघ, China, the संयुक्त Kingdom, और France—became the permanent सदस्यों of the United राष्ट्र सुरक्षा Council.
The सोवियत संघ और the United राज्य emerged as rival superpowers, setting the stage लिये the Cold War, which lasted for the अगला 46 सालो.
Meanwhile, the influence of European great शक्तियां प्रारंभ to मनाही, जबकि the decolonisation of एशिया and अफ़्रीकी began.
सबसे countries whose उद्योग था महरूम क्षतिग्रस्त moved towards economic recovery.
Political integration, विशेषकर in यूरोपीय, उभरा as an effort to stabilise postwar relations और लड़ो अधिक effectively in the Cold युद्ध.
A सीमित liability company ( LLC ) is a flexible form of एंटरप्राइज़ कि blends elements of साझेदारी और कॉरपोरेट structures.
Note than an LLC is नहीं a निगम, और calling an llc a निगम is technically incorrect.
an llc is a विधिक रूप of कम्पनी कि provides सीमित देयता to its owners in the विशाल majority of United राज्य jurisdictions.
llcs do not need to be व्यवस्थित लिये लाभ.
पाँच k-cups
The अंदर of a प्रयुक्त k-cup, with the शीर्ष foil and the used कॉफी grounds removed.
इस shows the फिल्टर अंदर the k-cup.
K-Cup portion पैक are used साथ keurig or other single कप brewing प्रणालियों to brew a कप of coffee, चाय, or hot chocolate.
प्रत्येक k-cup is a plastic संग्राहक with a कॉफी फिल्टर inside.
Ground कॉफी सेम are packed in the k-cup और sealed air-tight साथ a combination plastic and foil ढक्कन.
जब the K-Cup is लगाई in a Keurig brewer, the brewer punctures the foil lid and the bottom of the K-Cup and शक्तियां hot जल अंतर्गत pressure through the k-cup और into a मग.
keurig licenses इसके k-cup technology to कॉफी roasters and चाय makers such as Green पहाड़ कॉफी roasters, diedrich/ Gloria जीन्स, Timothy 's संसार Coffee, वैन Houtte, हिरण कॉफी, celestial Seasonings, bigelow चाय Company, Twinings, टली 's, Coffee लोगों and न्युमैन 's Own.
keurig 's patents on the original k-cup डिज़ाइन समाप्त in सितंबर 2012.
Keurig holds at least एक additional, still-active US patent and another पेटेंट अनुप्रयोग, detailing improvements कि have subsequently been incorporated in their K-Cup डिज़ाइन.
electa Pocket chronograph ( ca. 1890s ) manufactured by the gallet देखें Company in la Chaux-de-Fonds, स्विट्ज़रलैंड.
Gallet multichron Astronomic ( ca. 1959 ) —complex mechanical chronograph with 12 घंटा recoding capabilities, स्वचालित day, तिथि, माह, और moon phase display
A modern Seiko क्वार्ट्ज wristwatch using the chronograph फलन ( गति 7T92 ).
Citizen Atessa Eco-Drive atv53-3023 analog-digital chronograph साथ 4 area रेडियो Controlled रिसेप्शन ( उत्तर America, यूरोपीय, चीन, Japan ).
A chronograph is a विशिष्ट प्रकार of देखें कि is प्रयुक्त as a stopwatch combined साथ a display watch.
A basic chronograph रै an independent स्वीप second हाथ ; it can be started, रोका, और लौटे to शून्य by successive pressure on the stem.
लुई moinet invented the chronograph in 1816
conventional पीसीआई ( पीसीआई is an initialism formed from परिधीय घटक Interconnect, part of the पीसीआई Local Bus मानक और प्रायः shortened to just पीसीआई ) is a लोकल कंप्यूटर बस for attaching हार्डवेयर devices in a computer.
The PCI बस supports the कृत्यों मिला on a प्रोसेसर bus, but in a standardized format that is स्वतंत्र of any particular processor.
डिवाइस connected to the बस appear to the प्रोसेसर to be connected सीधे to the प्रोसेसर बस, and हैं assigned addresses in the processor 's address स्पेस.
संलग्न devices can take either the रूप of an एकीकृत circuit fitted onto the motherboard itself, पुकारा a planar device in the पीसीआई specification, or an expansion card कि fits into a slot.
the पीसीआई लोकल बस थी first implemented in ibm PC compatibles, जहाँ it displaced the संयोजन of isa प्लस one vesa लोकल Bus as the बस configuration.
It रै subsequently महरूम अपनाया लिये other कंप्यूटर प्रकार.
PCI and pci-x हैं being replaced by पीसीआई Express, लकिन, most motherboards are still बना साथ one or more पीसीआई slots, which are sufficient लिये अनेक uses.
The पीसीआई specification कवर the शारीरिक आकार of the बस ( सहित the size and अंतरण of the circuit board किनारे विद्युत contacts ), electrical characteristics, bus timing, and प्रोटोकॉल.
the specification can be खरीदा इससे the पीसीआई Special Interest समूह ( pci-sig ).
Typical PCI cards प्रयुक्त in pcs शामिल : network ताश, sound cards, modems, अतिरिक्त ports ऐसे as usb or serial, TV tuner cards and डिस्क परिरक्षक.
पीसीआई वीडियो ताश replaced ISA और vesa cards, जबतक growing bandwidth आवश्यकताएँ outgrew the capabilities of पीसीआई ; the preferred इंटरफ़ेस लिये वीडियो ताश became अगप, and then पीसीआई Express.
पीसीआई video cards remain available लिये use with old PCs without अगप or पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस स्लॉट.
अनेक डिवाइस previously provided on PCI expansion cards are अभी commonly integrated onto motherboards or available in सार्वभौमिक सीरियल बस और PCI एक्स्प्रेस versions.
Michael whitaker Smith ( born October 7, 1957 ) is an अमरीकी contemporary ईसाई संगीतकार, जो has charted primarily in the contemporary ईसाई and occasionally in the मुख्यधारा charts.
उसके biggest कामयाबी in mainstream music was in 1991 जब `` प्लेस in इस संसार '' hit No. 6 on the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100.
Smith is a three-time Grammy पुरस्कार विजेता, और रै अर्जित 40 Dove Awards.
over the कोर्स of उसके करियर, he बेची अधिक than 13 लाख albums and recorded 29 No. 1 Hit गीतों, चौदह सुनहरा albums, and five प्लेटिनम albums.
Smith is an American Music पुरस्कार प्राप्तकर्ता ; he was भी नामित one of लोगों पत्रिका 's `` Most Beautiful People ''.
an American poster from the World War II -era that was used to inform people परिचय कया they चाहिए do if they suspect sabotage.
तोड़फोड़ is a deliberate action aimed at weakening another एंटिटी through subversion, रुकावट, disruption, or destruction.
in a workplace setting, sabotage is the सचेत वापसी of efficiency generally directed at causing some change in कार्यस्थल conditions.
एक जो engages in sabotage is a saboteur.
As a नियम, saboteurs कोशिश to conceal उनके पहचान क्युकी of the consequences of उनके actions.
For उदाहरण, whereas an environmental दबाव group might be प्रसन्न to be पहचाना with an act of sabotage, it होता not want the individual identities of the perpetrators ज्ञात.
पैट्रिक Henry College ( phc ) is a निजी, स्वतंत्र college with an धर्मान्तरण ईसाई basis कि focuses on teaching शास्त्रीय liberal कला and government, located in purcellville, वर्जिनिया, संयुक्त राज्य.
पैट्रिक हेनरी is ज्ञात लिये its रूढ़िवादी धर्मान्तरण Christian फ़ोकस.
As of अप्रैल 17, 2007, the कॉलेज was accredited by the transnational संघ of Christian कॉलेजों and Schools, a national faith-related accrediting संगठन पहचाना by the विभाग of शिक्षा and the परिषद लिये Higher शिक्षा Accreditation.
The school was founded with the सहायता of the घर स्कूल Legal Defense Association, and अभी serves as the headquarters for the organization, with जिससे it is still closely कनेक्ट.
the इतिहास of टेलीविज़न comprises the work of numerous engineers और inventors in अनेक देशों over many दशकों.
the earliest प्रस्ताव was in 1908, in a पेपर by a. A. Campbell-Swinton and postulated the उपयोग of cathode किरणें.
The first practical demonstrations of television, however, were विकसित using electromechanical विधि to स्कैन, transmit, and reproduce an चित्र.
as electronic कैमरा and प्रदर्शक tubes यहूद perfected, electromechanical television gave रास्ता to all-electronic systems in nearly all applications.
L'Idéal cinéma - ज़ाक Tati at aniche खोली November 23rd 1905 ; the oldest still-active movie theater in the संसार
A सिनेमा in ऑस्ट्रेलिया
A typical मल्टीप्लेक्स ( AMC सैर 16 in वुडलैंड Hills, Los एंजिल्स, u.S. )
A movie theater ( भी called a cinema, फिल्म house, film house, फिल्मी theater or चित्र house ) is a venue, प्रायः a भवन, for viewing films.
Most but नहीं सब फिल्म थिएटर are वाणिज्यिक operations केटरिंग to the general पब्लिक, who attend by खरीदना a ticket.
the फिल्म is projected with a फिल्म प्रोजेक्टर onto a विशाल प्रक्षेप screen at the front of the auditorium.
Most फिल्म theaters are अभी equipped लिये digital cinema प्रक्षेप, removing the need to बनाएँ and transport a physical film छपाई.
Southern कैलिफ़ोर्निया Norton मालिक 's क्लबों on कैलिफ़ोर्निया State Route 41, near creston.
a motorcycle क्लबों is a group of individuals जिनकी primary ब्याज और activities involve मोटरसाइकिल.
Lyme बीमारी, Lyme borreliosis is an infectious बीमारी caused by at least three species of bacteria belonging to the genus borrelia.
borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto is the main cause of lyme बीमारी in North America, whereas Borrelia afzelii and Borrelia garinii कारण most European cases.
The disease is नामित after the कस्बों of lyme and Old Lyme, कनेक्टिकट, यूएसए, where a number of मामले यहूद identified in 1975.
Although Allen Steere एहसास कि lyme बीमारी was a tick-borne disease in 1978, the कारण of the बीमारी remained a mystery until 1981, जब B. burgdorferi थी identified by विली burgdorfer.
lyme बीमारी is the most common tick-borne disease in the उत्तरी Hemisphere.
borrelia is transmitted to इंसानो by the काटना of संक्रमित ticks belonging to a few species of the genus Ixodes ( `` hard ticks '' ).
जल्दी symptoms may include ज्वर, सिरदर्द, fatigue, depression, और a characteristic गोलाकार स्किन rash called erythema migrans ( EM ).
बाएँ अनुपचारित, बाद लक्षण may involve the joints, दिल, and central बेचैन system.
In सबसे cases, the संक्रमण and its symptoms are eliminated by एंटीबायोटिक, विशेषकर if the बीमारी is treated early.
Delayed or inadequate treatment can सीसे to अधिक गंभीर लक्षण, जिससे can be disabling and मुश्किल to treat.
penises of minke whales on display at the आइसलैंडिक phallological संग्रहालय
शिश्न ( plural penises or penes ) is a सामान्य पद लिये the अंगों with which male and hermaphrodite animals introduce शुक्राणु into receptive महिलाओं दौरान copulation.
Such organs occur in many पशु, both vertebrate and invertebrate, but males do not bear a penis in प्रत्येक एनिमल species, और in those species in which the male does भालू a so-called शिश्न, the penes in the विभिन्न प्रजाति are नहीं necessarily समजात.
For उदाहरण, the penis of a mammal is at सबसे analogous to the शिश्न of a male कीट or barnacle.
The पद penis applies to many reproductive intromittent organs, लकिन not to all ; for example the intromittent organ of सबसे cephalopoda is the hectocotylus, a specialised भुजा, and male spiders use उनके pedipalps.
in most प्रजाति of पशु in जिससे there is an अंग कि might reasonably be described as a penis, it रै no प्रमुख फलन other than intromission, or at तनिक conveying the शुक्राणु to the female, लकिन in the placental स्तनधारियों the शिश्न bears the distal भाग of the urethra, जिससे discharges both urine during urination and semen during copulation as the occasion requires.
Artists और रंगमंडल ( a & r ) is the division of a रिकार्ड लेबल or music publishing कम्पनी that is responsible for हुनर scouting और overseeing the कलाकारी development of रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकारों and/or songwriters.
it भी acts as a liaison between artists and the record लेबल or publishing कम्पनी ; प्रत्येक activity involving कलाकारों to the पाइंट of एल्बम रिलीज is generally माना under the purview of, और responsibility of, A & r.
a furlong is a measure of अलहदा in इम्पीरियल इकाई और U.S. प्रथागत units बराबर to one-eighth of a मील, समतुल्य to 220 गज, 660 फीट, 40 rods, or 10 chains.
The सटीक value of the furlong varies slightly among english-speaking देशों.
Five furlongs are approximately 1 किलोमीटर ( 1.0058 km is a closer approximation ).
चूंकि the असली definition of the मीटर थी one-quarter of one ten-millionth of the circumference of the Earth ( साथ the great वृत्त coincident with the meridian of longitude passing through Paris ), the परिधि of the Earth is about 40,000 km or about 200,000 furlongs.
cr2032 lithium बटन cell battery
Lithium 9 volt, aa, & aaa आकार
लिथियम बैटरी are डिस्पोजेबल ( primary ) batteries कि have लिथियम metal or लिथियम compounds as an anode.
वे स्टैंड apart from other बैटरी in उनके ऊँची चार्ज घनत्व ( long जीवन ) and high लागत प्रति ईकाई.
depending on the डिज़ाइन and chemical compounds प्रयुक्त, lithium cells can produce voltages इससे 1.5 v ( comparable to a zinc–carbon or alkaline battery ) to परिचय 3.7 V. Lithium बैटरी हैं widely used in उत्पाद such as पोर्टेबल उपभोक्ता electronic devices.
रेमंड `` Ray '' Charles जोकर LaMontagne ( ; born June 18, 1973 ) is an American singer-songwriter.
lamontagne रै released four studio albums, ट्रबल, Till the Sun turns ब्लैक, Gossip in the अनाज and God Willin ' & the Creek do n't वृद्धि.
he was born in New Hampshire और was प्रेरित to create music बाद सुनना an album by स्टीफन Stills.
Critics have compared lamontagne 's music to कि of the बैंड, Van मॉरिसन, Nick ड्रेक, और टिम buckley.
he lives in मैसाचुसेट्स साथ उसके wife और दो children.
जब the Wind blows is a novel by जेम्स पैटरसन.
It is the precursor to the Lake हाउस और प्रेरित the अधिकतम Ride श्रेणी.
the novel is currently set to be adapted into a movie.
The पिट्सबर्ग Steelers यहूद संस्थापित in 1933.
over the course of the team 's इतिहास, the टोली रै था several लोगो while wearing virtually the वही uniforms over the सालो, साथ subtle changes made to give the uniforms an updated look.
The team colors, uniforms, और logo are प्रायः ranked as being among the बेहतरीन in the NFL.
फेसबुक on the Ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an ऑनलाइन social नेटवर्किंग सेवा, whose नाम तना इससे the colloquial नाम for the किताब दिए to विद्यार्थी at the start of the अकादमिक year by some विश्वविद्यालयों administrations in the संयुक्त States to सहायता विद्यार्थी मिलेंगी to जान each other.
It थी संस्थापित in February 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg with उसके कॉलेज roommates and fellow हार्वर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों विद्यार्थी एडुआर्डो Saverin, एंड्रयू mccollum, Dustin moskovitz और क्रिस ह्यूजेस.
the website 's सदस्यता थी initially limited by the संस्थापकों to हार्वर्ड विद्यार्थी, but थी विस्तारित to other colleges in the Boston area, the आइवी League, और Stanford University.
It gradually added support for students at various अन्य universities before खोलने to high स्कूल विद्यार्थी, and eventually to anyone aged 13 and over.
फेसबुक अभी allows कोई users who घोषित themselves to be at least 13 years बूढ़ा to become registered users of the साईट.
Users जरूर register पहले using the site, after जिससे वे may create a निजी प्रोफ़ाइल, add other उपयोक्ता as मित्रों, और exchange messages, including स्वचालित सूचनाएं when they अद्यतन their profile.
Additionally, users may join common-interest user groups, organized by workplace, स्कूल or college, or other विशेषताएँ, और categorize उनके friends into सूचियाँ such as `` लोगों From Work '' or `` बंद Friends ''.
As of सितंबर 2012, फेसबुक has over one billion active उपयोक्ता.
according to a may 2011 उपभोक्ता Reports survey, वहीँ are 7.5 लाख children अंतर्गत 13 साथ accounts and 5 लाख under 10, violating the साईट 's शर्तें of सेवा.
in May 2005, accel partners invested $ 12.7 लाख in Facebook, and जिम Breyer added $ 1 लाख of उसके अपना धन to the घट.
a January 2009 compete.com study ranked Facebook as the most प्रयुक्त सोशल नेटवर्किंग service by विश्वव्यापी मासिक active users.
Entertainment Weekly included the साईट on इसके end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list, saying, `` How on earth did we stalk हमारी exes, याद our co-workers ' जन्मदिन, कीड़ा our मित्रों, and खेल a rousing game of scrabulous पहले Facebook ? ''
आलोचकों, ऐसे as फेसबुक Detox, state that फेसबुक रै turned into a नेशनल obsession in the United States, resulting in vast amounts of समय खोया and प्रोत्साहित narcissism.
Quantcast estimates फेसबुक has 138.9 million मासिक अद्वितीय U.S. visitors in May 2011.
according to Social मीडिया Today, in अप्रैल 2010 an estimated 41.6 % ( 129.5 million ) of the U.S. population था a Facebook खाता.
nevertheless, Facebook 's मार्केट विकास started to स्टाल in कुछ regions, with the site खोने 7 million active उपयोक्ता in the संयुक्त States और Canada in May 2011.
Facebook eventually दायर लिये an आरंभिक पब्लिक offering on फ़रवरी 1, 2012, and was headquartered in Menlo पार्क, California.
फेसबुक Inc. began selling stock to the पब्लिक और trading on the नैस्डैक on May 18, 2012.
अर्विन Johannes Eugen ख़बरों ( 15 नवम्बर 1891 – 14 अक्तूबर 1944 ), popularly known as The मरुस्थल Fox ( wüstenfuchs, ), थी a जर्मनी Field Marshal of World War ii.
he अर्जित the respect of दोनो his own सैनिकों और the enemies he fought.
Rommel थी a highly decorated officer in संसार युद्ध I and was awarded the Pour le mérite for उसके exploits on the Italian front.
In संसार War ii, he further विशिष्ट himself as the commander of the 7th Panzer प्रभाग during the 1940 आक्रमण of फ़्रांस.
उसके नेतृत्व of German and इतालवी शक्तियां in the उत्तर अफ़्रीकी अभियान स्थापित him as एक of the सबसे able कमांडरों of the युद्ध, और अर्जित उसे the appellation of the मरुस्थल फॉक्स.
he is regarded as एक of the सबसे skilled commanders of मरुस्थल warfare in the विरोध.
He later commanded the German शक्तियां opposing the Allied cross-channel invasion in Normandy.
His कार्यभार never took उसे to the Eastern Front.
ख़बरों is regarded as having महरूम a दयालु and पेशेवर अधिकारी.
His Afrika कोर्प्स थी never अभियुक्त of war अपराधों, और soldiers captured during उसके अफ़्रीकी campaign were reported to have been treated humanely.
Orders to kill Jewish soldiers, civilians and captured कमांडो were उपेक्षित.
लेट in the युद्ध, ख़बरों थी linked to the षड्यंत्र to assassinate Adolf हिटलर.
Since ख़बरों थी a नेशनल hero, Hitler desired to eliminate उसे quietly.
he forced Rommel to कमिट suicide with a साइनाइड pill, in वापसी लिये आश्वासनों that Rommel 's परिवार होता नहीं be persecuted following his death.
Stained कांच प्रतिनिधित्व of the Holy स्पिरिट as a dove, c. 1660.
the seven gifts of the पावन स्पिरिट is an enumeration of seven spiritual उपहार originating with patristic authors, later elaborated by five intellectual virtues और four other समूह of ethical characteristics.
They are : wisdom, समझना, wonder and डरते ( भय of the रब ), counsel, ज्ञान, fortitude, and piety ( reverence ).
The धरती Day ध्वज, the latest proposal of John McConnell for a flag of Earth Day
Earth दिन is an सालाना इवेंट, मनाये on अप्रैल 22, on जिससे events are held विश्वव्यापी to demonstrate support लिये पर्यावरणीय protection.
it was first celebrated in 1970, और is अभी coordinated globally by the Earth Day Network, and मनाये in अधिक than 192 countries प्रत्येक साल.
In 1969 at a UNESCO सम्मेलन in San Francisco, the date प्रस्तावित थी March 21, 1970, the पहला दिन of spring in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध.
This दिन of प्रकृति 's equipoise थी later sanctioned in a Proclamation हस्ताक्षरित by सचिव General u Thant at the United Nations.
a month later a पृथक Earth दिन थी संस्थापित by United States Senator gaylord Nelson as an environmental teach-in पहला आयोजित on अप्रैल 22, 1970.
नेल्सन was later awarded the Presidential Medal of स्वतंत्रता Award in recognition of उसके कार्य.
जबकि this April 22 Earth दिन थी focused on the United राज्य, an organization launched by Denis Hayes, जो was the असली national समन्वयक in 1970, took it अंतरराष्ट्रीय in 1990 and व्यवस्थित कार्यक्रम in 141 nations.
Numerous communities celebrate Earth सप्ताह, an संपूर्ण सप्ताह of activities केन्द्रित on पर्यावरणीय issues.
आयोडीन is a chemical तत्व साथ symbol i and परमाणु क्रमांक 53.
the नाम is from Greek ioeidēs, अर्थ बैंगनी or जामुनी, due to the color of elemental आयोडीन vapor.
आयोडीन and इसके यौगिकों are primarily प्रयुक्त in पोषण, and industrially in the उत्पादन of एसिटिक acid और निश्चित polymers.
आयोडीन 's अपेक्षाकृत ऊँची atomic क्रमांक, low toxicity, और ease of अनुलग्नक to organic यौगिकों have बना it a भाग of many X-ray contrast materials in आधुनिक medicine.
Iodine has तभी one stable समस्थानिक.
a number of iodine radioisotopes हैं also used in चिकित्सा अनुप्रयोग.
आयोडीन is found on धरती mainly as the अत्यधिक water-soluble iodide आयन, i−, जिससे concentrates it in oceans और brine तालों.
जैसे the अन्य हैलोजन्स, फ़्री iodine occurs मुख्यतः as a diatomic अणु I2, and तब only momentarily बाद होने oxidized इससे आयोडाइड by an oxidant जैसे फ़्री ऑक्सीजन.
In the ब्रह्मांड और on Earth, आयोडीन 's high परमाणु क्रमांक makes it a relatively rare element.
however, इसके उपस्थिति in ocean जल रै given it a भूमिका in जीवविज्ञान.
it is the heaviest अनिवार्य तत्व utilized widely by जीवन in biological कृत्यों ( only टंगस्टन, employed in enzymes by a few species of bacteria, is अत्यधिक ).
आयोडीन 's rarity in many soils, due to initial कम abundance as a crust-element, and also leaching of घुलनशील आयोडाइड by rainwater, has led to many कमियां समस्याएं in land पशु और अंतर्देशीय इंसान populations.
Iodine deficiency affects परिचय दो अरब लोगों और is the अग्रणी preventable cause of intellectual disabilities.
Iodine is required by उच्चतर animals, which उपयोग it to synthesize thyroid हार्मोन, which contain the element.
क्युकी of इस function, radioisotopes of आयोडीन हैं concentrated in the thyroid ग्रंथि साथ with nonradioactive आयोडीन.
if inhaled, the radioisotope iodine-131, जिससे has a high fission product उपज, concentrates in the थायराइड, लकिन is easily remedied साथ पोटैशियम आयोडाइड उपचार.
lobbying ( also लॉबी ) is the act of attempting to influence निर्णय made by officials in the सरकारी, most प्रायः विधायक or सदस्यों of regulatory एजेंसियों.
lobbying is किया by many अलग प्रकार of लोगों and organized समूह, including individuals in the निजी sector, corporations, fellow विधायक or government officials, or advocacy groups ( interest groups ).
lobbyists may be among a legislator 's constituencies, अर्थ a voter or bloc of मतदाता within his or her चुनावी district, or नहीं ; वे may engage in lobbying as a business, or नहीं.
पेशेवर lobbyists are लोगों जिनकी कारोबार is trying to influence legislation on behalf of a समूह or व्यक्तिगत जो hires उन्हें.
Individuals और nonprofit organizations can also lobby as an अधिनियम of स्वयंसेवा or as a छोटी part of their सामान्य जॉब ( लिये उदाहरण, a CEO बैठक with a representative about a project important to his/her company, or an activist meeting with his/her legislator in an unpaid capacity ).
सरकारें often define and regulate organized समूह lobbying कि रै become influential.
the आचार और morality of lobbying are.
lobbying is often spoken of with अवमानना, जब the implication is कि people with अत्यधिक socioeconomic power हैं corrupting the law ( टेढ़ी it दूर इससे fairness ) in अनुक्रम to serve उनके अपना conflict of ब्याज.
लकिन another side of lobbying is making sure कि अन्य ' interests are विधिवत defended against अन्य ' भ्रष्टाचार, or even बस making यकीनन कि minority interests हैं fairly defended against mere जुल्म of the बहुमत.
लिये example, a medical association, or a trade association of स्वास्थ्य insurance कंपनियाँ, may lobby a legislature in अनुक्रम to counteract the influence of तम्बाकू कंपनियाँ, in which case the lobbying would be viewed by most लोगों as justified ( विधिवत defending विरूद्ध others ' corruption ).
The परेशानी in drawing उद्देश्य lines between which lobbyists are `` good lobbyists '' and जिससे ones are `` ख़राब ones '' is compounded by the cleverness साथ जिससे lobbyists or उनके क्लाइंट can argue कि उनके own lobbying is of the `` good '' kind.
At heart, the प्रयत्न to influence विधान is a शक्ति संघर्ष.
As in अन्य फ़ॉर्म of power struggle, ऐसे as war or law प्रवर्तन, motives range इससे to self-defense to लड़ लिये इंसाफ, और the dividing लकीर between predation और justice is विषय to rationalization.
सनशाइन of अपना प्रेम गिटार riff
मलाई were a 1960s अंग्रेजों rock supergroup consisting of bassist/vocalist Jack Bruce, guitarist/vocalist Eric क्लैप्टन, and वादक Ginger Baker.
उनके ध्वनि was characterised by a hybrid of ब्लूज़ चट्टान, मुश्किल rock और साइकेडेलिक चट्टान, combining the psychedelia-themed lyrics, eric क्लैप्टन 's blues गिटार playing and vocals, जोकर ब्रूस 's आवाज़ और prominent बास playing and Ginger बेकर 's jazz -influenced drumming.
The समूह 's तीसरा album, पहियों of आग, थी the संसार 's first platinum-selling दोगुना album.
मलाई हैं widely regarded as being the world 's पहला कामयाब supergroup.
in उनके करियर, वे बेची over 15 लाख एल्बम विश्वव्यापी.
Cream 's म्यूज़िक शामिल songs आधारित on traditional ब्लूज़ ऐसे as `` Crossroads `` and `` spoonful ``, और आधुनिक blues ऐसे as `` Born Under a ख़राब चिह्न ``, as well as more eccentric गीतों ऐसे as `` अजीब Brew ``, `` किस्से of वीर ulysses `` और `` Toad ``.
मलाई 's biggest hits were `` i Feel Free `` ( uk, number 11 ), `` सनशाइन of Your प्रेम `` ( us, number 5 ), `` श्वेत Room `` ( US, number 6 ), `` Crossroads '' ( US, number 28 ), और `` Badge `` ( uk, क्रमांक 18 ).
मलाई made a significant impact on the popular music of the समय, और, along with जिमि हेंड्रिक्स, और टेरी कठ of शिकागो, popularised the उपयोग of the wah-wah पैदल.
They provided a heavy yet technically निपुण musical थीम कि foreshadowed and बहकावे the emergence of British bands such as The Jeff Beck Group in the late 1960s.
the बैंड 's live performances बहकावे प्रगतिशील rock अधिनियमों such as फटाफट.
मलाई यहूद inducted into the चट्टान और फेंकें Hall of कीर्ति in 1993.
वे यहूद शामिल in दोनो Rolling Stone और vh1 's सूचियाँ of the `` 100 महानतम Artists of All समय ''.
वे यहूद भी क्रमित number 16 on VH1 's `` 100 महानतम Artists of मुश्किल चट्टान ''.
Hairspray is a 1988 कॉमेडी फिल्मी लिखा और directed by John Waters, और starring ricki झील, सन्नी Bono, डिब्बी Harry, माइकल St. जेरार्ड, shawn थॉम्पसन, colleen Fitzpatrick, जेरी stiller, and in उसके पिछला film भूमिका, Divine.
Hairspray was a dramatic प्रस्थान from waters ' पहले works, साथ a much broader intended audience.
In फैक्ट, hairsprays pg is the mildest दरजा a Waters film has received ; most of his previous films were rated X by the MPAA.
नियत in 1962 बाल्टीमोर, Maryland, the film घूमती around self-proclaimed `` pleasantly plump '' किशोरावस्था Tracy Turnblad as she pursues stardom as a dancer on a लोकल tv show और रैलियों विरूद्ध जातिगत पृथक्करण.
hairspray थी only a moderate success upon इसके आरंभिक नाट्य रिलीज, earning a modest gross of $ 8 लाख.
however, it प्रबंधित to attract a larger audience on home वीडियो in the early 1990s और became a cult classic.
Most आलोचकों praised the film, although some were displeased साथ the overall campiness.
in 2002, the film थी adapted into a Broadway musical of the वही name, which जीती आठ टोनी Awards, including Best musical in 2003.
A second फिल्मी संस्करण of hairspray, an adaptation of the स्टेज musical, थी भी released by New लकीर Cinema in 2007, which included many परिवर्तन of scripted items from the असली.
The फिल्मी भी ranks # 444 on साम्राज्य पत्रिका 's 2008 सूची of the 500 महानतम फिल्मों of सब time.
a Christian denomination is an identifiable धार्मिक देह under a आम name, structure, and doctrine within christianity.
Some groups शामिल do नहीं consider themselves a denomination ( e.g., the Catholic Church considers itself the एक सच्चा church और the अपोस्टोलिक See, और as pre-denominational ).
Some समूह viewed by non-adherents as denominational actively resist being पुकारा a denomination और do not have any औपचारिक denominational structure, प्राधिकार, or record-keeping परे the लोकल congregation ; several समूह within बहाली Movement fall into this श्रेणी.
Some समूह हैं विशाल ( e.g. catholics, lutherans, anglicans or baptists ), जबकि अन्य हैं just a few small चर्च, और in most मामले the relative आकार is not evident in इस सूची.
आधुनिक movements ऐसे as fundamentalist Christianity, pietism, evangelicalism, Pentecostalism और the Holiness गति sometimes क्रॉस denominational lines, or in कुछ cases बनाएँ नई denominations out of two or more continuing groups, ( as is the मामला for many संयुक्त and uniting churches, for उदाहरण ).
ऐसे subtleties and complexities हैं not clearly चित्रित here.
प्रमुख विभाजन भीतर christianity.
Note : This is नहीं a complete सूची, लकिन aims to provide a comprehensible overview of the diversity among denominations of Christianity.
As there हैं reported to be लगभग 41,000 ईसाई denominations, अनेक of जिससे can नहीं be सत्यापित to be significant, only those denominations with विकिपीडिया articles will be सूचीबद्ध in अनुक्रम to ensure कि सब प्रविष्टियां on इस list are notable and verifiable.
Between denominations, theologians, और तुलनात्मक religionists वहीँ हैं considerable disagreements परिचय which समूह can be properly पुकारा ईसाई, मतभिन्नता arising primarily from doctrinal मतभेद between समूह.
लिये the purpose of सादगी, इस list is intended to प्रतिबिंबित the self-understanding of प्रत्येक denomination.
Explanations of अलग राय concerning उनके औकात as ईसाई denominations can be मिला at उनके respective आलेख.
There is no आधिकारिक recognition in most parts of the world for religious लाशें, and there is no आधिकारिक clearinghouse जिससे could determine the औकात or respectability of religious लाशें.
प्रायः वहीँ is considerable असहमति between various churches about whether अन्य churches चाहिए be labeled with pejorative शर्तें ऐसे as `` cult '', or about whether इस or कि समूह enjoys some माप of respectability.
Such considerations प्रायः vary इससे place to प्लेस, जहाँ एक religious group may enjoy बहुमत औकात in one प्रदेश, but be widely regarded as a `` dangerous cult '' in another भाग of the संसार.
Inclusion on इस सूची करता नहीं indicate कोई निर्णय about the size, महत्व, or character of a group or इसके सदस्यों.
1804 मैप of `` louisiana ``, edged on the वेस्ट by the Rocky kyu.
the Louisiana खरीदें ( `` बिक्री of louisiana '' ) थी the अधिग्रहण by the संयुक्त States of अमेरिका in 1803 of of फ़्रांस 's अर्जी to the territory of Louisiana.
the U.S. paid 50 million francs ( $ 11,250,000 ) प्लस cancellation of debts worth 18 लाख francs ( $ 3,750,000 ), लिये a कुल योग of 15 लाख dollars ( कम than 3 सेंट प्रति एकड़ ) लिये the Louisiana territory ( $ लाख in डॉलर, कम than 42 सेंट प्रति acre ).
the Louisiana territory encompassed सब or part of 15 उपस्थित U.S. states और दो कनाडाई प्रांतों.
The land purchased contained सब of present-day Arkansas, Missouri, आयोवा, Oklahoma, Kansas, and Nebraska ; भाग of Minnesota that were वेस्ट of the मिसिसिपी नदी ; सबसे of उत्तर डकोटा ; सबसे of दक्षिण Dakota ; northeastern नई मैक्सिको ; northern Texas ; the portions of मोंटाना, व्योमिंग, and कोलोराडो ईस्ट of the महाद्वीपीय divide ; Louisiana west of the Mississippi नदी, including the city of New Orleans ; and छोटी portions of land that would आखिरकार become भाग of the Canadian provinces of अलबर्टा और Saskatchewan.
फ़्रांस नियंत्रित this vast area from 1699 जबतक 1762, the year it gave the territory to इसके ally Spain.
Under नेपोलियन Bonaparte, France took back the territory in 1800 in the आशा of भवन an साम्राज्य in North अमेरिका.
A slave विद्रोह in हैती और an impending युद्ध साथ Britain, however, led फ़्रांस to लापरवाही these plans और sell the संपूर्ण territory to the United States, जो had originally intended तभी to तलाश the खरीदें of नई ऑरलियन्स और इसके adjacent lands.
the खरीदें of the territory of Louisiana took place दौरान the प्रेसिडेंसी of Thomas Jefferson.
at the time, the purchase faced घरेलू opposition because it थी thought to be unconstitutional.
हालांकि he सहमत that the U.S. संविधान किया नहीं contain provisions लिये acquiring territory, जेफरसन decided to go ahead with the purchase anyway in अनुक्रम to हटाएँ France 's presence in the region और to protect both U.S. trade access to the port of New ऑरलियन्स and free ड्योढ़ी on the मिसिसिपी नदी.
Ceremony at प्लेस d'armes, नई ऑरलियन्स अंकन transfer of Louisiana to the United States, 10 कूच 1804, as चित्रित by Thure de Thulstrup.
`` कूल Jerk '' is a लोकप्रिय सोंग लिखा by Donald Storball and originally performed by the capitols.
Released in 1966, it reached No. 2 on the American R & b चार्ट और No. 7 on the पॉप चार्ट.
the बैकिंग track लिये इस सोंग was दरअसल अंकित ( secretly ) by the motown house band The दुर्गंध भाइयो.
Per one of the Funk भाइयो, the सोंग थी originally to be called `` Pimp Jerk. ''
This was लिया इससे watching पड़ोस pimps, who होता dance in the क्लब, लकिन यहूद too `` cool '' to do the jerk like regular folks.
उनके संस्करण थी subsequently named `` the Pimp झटका. ''
The producer थी afraid कि a सोंग साथ the word pimp in the title would be बैन or not receive much positive ध्यान, और था the शीर्षक बदला to इसके current form.
the go-go 's, Todd rundgren, बिग ट्रबल, इंसान Sexual जवाब, the La de da 's, the सृष्टि, और The coasters have covered the song.
Todd Rundgren did his version in an odd समय हस्ताक्षर ( 7/4 ), giving an obviously jerky महसूस to the song.
the go-go 's covered the सोंग लिये उनके 1982 एल्बम Vacation and बाद re-recorded it लिये उनके 1990 एल्बम Greatest.
in the विशेषता फिल्मी Home Alone 2 : खोया in New York, ताऊ फ़्रैंक ( gerry Bamman ) गाती `` कूल Jerk '' in the shower.
a version of the सोंग with different गीत ( `` do the Cool चाबुक '' ) is used in Cool Whip commercials.
a recording of `` कूल झटका '' by Ricardo Ray is प्रदर्शित in the feature फिल्मी Donnie Brasco ( 1997 ).
The सोंग सुविधाएँ in the फिल्मी Standing in the साए of Motown, performed by the Funk भाइयो साथ lead vocals by bootsy Collins.
the सोंग is सुना briefly in the एनिमेटेड feature, मेडागास्कर 3 : Europe 's Most चाही.
despite इस reason, it is listed in कुछ variations of the फिल्मी 's soundtrack.
A league is a unit of length ( or, rarely, क्षेत्रफल ).
It was long आम in Europe and Latin America, but it is no longer an official ईकाई in any स्वदेश.
the league originally referred to the अलहदा a person could walk in an घंटा.
Since the मध्य आयु, many मान have महरूम निर्दिष्ट in several countries.
in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of nautical दूरियाँ, the 3 मील ( 4.8 km ) distance corresponds to how far an observer of औसत height ( 5'9 '' or 1.78 m ) can see जब खड़ा at समुद्र level.
यूँ, a जलयान traveling one `` league '' has reached what was previously the farthest visible distance on the क्षितिज.
The lack of a ऐतिहासिक and वैश्विक standard लिये the सटीक माप of a `` लीग '' can be accounted for by the variable उन्नयन of the observer ( i.e., sightings इससे a जलयान 's deck vs. masthead ).
the Irish राज्य आए into होने in 1922 as the आयरिश फ़्री राज्य, a dominion of the British राष्ट्रमंडल, having seceded इससे the संयुक्त Kingdom under the anglo-irish Treaty.
It comprises 26 of आयरलैंड 's 32 counties.
चूंकि 1949 it रै existed as the Republic of आयरलैंड.
इससे इसके foundation, the आयरिश Free State थी embroiled in a सिविल war between nationalists supporting the सन्धि and opponents जो समर्थित a गणतंत्र.
The pro-treaty पक्ष, organised as cumann na nGaedheal उभरा विजयी from the conflict and won subsequent elections.
वे formed the सरकारी of the राज्य जबतक 1932, when they peacefully handed over शक्ति to the anti-Treaty faction in fianna Fáil, जो पराजित उन्हें in an election.
The Irish राज्य, despite इसके violent beginnings, रै remained a उदार लोकतंत्र throughout its अस्तित्व.
A new constitution in 1937 removed अनेक of the links साथ Britain established अंतर्गत the Treaty और Ireland 's neutrality in the Second World युद्ध demonstrated इसके स्वतंत्रता in foreign नीति matters इससे ब्रिटेन.
in 1948 Ireland formally बाएँ the अंग्रेजों Commonwealth and adopted the title of `` Republic ''.
in the economic sphere, the Irish state has था a mixed performance.
on independence, it was one of the wealthier देशों in Europe प्रति सिर of जनसांख्यिकी.
however it also inherited from अंग्रेजों नियम the problems of बेरोजगारी, emigration, uneven भौगोलिक development and कमी of a native industrial आधार.
For much of इसके history, the state struggled to rectify ये problems.
particular चोटियों of emigration यहूद अंकित during the लेट 1930s, 1950s और 1980s, when the आयरिश economy अंकित little विकास.
In the 1930s, fianna Fáil सरकारें attempted to बनाएँ Irish घरेलू industries using subsidies and सुरक्षात्मक tarifs.
in the late 1950s, these नीतियों were dropped in पक्ष of free trade with selected countries and encouraging of विदेशी investment with low कर.
इस थी expanded when आयरलैंड entered the European Economic Community in 1972.
in the 1990s और 2000s, Ireland अनुभवी an economic boom ज्ञात as the सेल्टिक Tiger, in which the country 's जीडीपी surpassed अनेक of इसके European neighbours.
आव्रजन भी surpassed emigration, bringing the state 's population up to over 4 लाख.
however, since 2008, आयरलैंड रै experienced a severe संकट in the banking sector and साथ sovereign कर्ज़.
the resultant economic slump has deepened the effect of the संसार recession on Ireland.
From 1937 to 1998, the आयरिश संविधान included a अर्जी on उत्तरी Ireland as a भाग of the नेशनल territory.
However, the राज्य भी opposed और used its सुरक्षा शक्तियां against those हथियारबंद groups - प्रधानतया the अस्थायी आयरिश Republican फौज, who आजमाया to एकजुट आयरलैंड by फ़ोर्स.
इस occurred in the 1950s, throughout the 1970s and 1980s और रै जारी on a reduced स्केल.
आयरिश governments meanwhile आजमाया to दलाली an अनुबंध to the conflict known as The परेशानियों within उत्तरी आयरलैंड from 1968 to the late 1990s.
The अंग्रेजों government officially recognised the सही of the आयरिश सरकारी to be a party to the उत्तरी negotiations in the Anglo-Irish अनुबंध of 1985.
in 1998, as part of the शुभ Friday Agreement, the Irish constitution थी altered by referendum to remove the territorial claim to उत्तरी आयरलैंड and बजाय extend the सही of आयरिश नागरिकता to all the people of the island चाहिए वे wish to have it.
John क्विंसी एडम्स ( July 11, 1767February 23, 1848 ) was the sixth अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1825–1829 ).
He परोसा as American diplomat, सीनेटर, और Congressional representative.
He थी a member of the Federalist, Democratic-Republican, नेशनल Republican, and बाद Anti-Masonic and whig parties.
Adams was the son of former President John Adams और Abigail Adams.
as a राजनयिक, Adams played an महत्वपूर्ण role in negotiating अनेक international treaties, सबसे notably the सन्धि of ghent, जिससे ended the War of 1812.
As Secretary of State, he negotiated साथ the United Kingdom over America 's उत्तरी किनारा with Canada, negotiated साथ स्पेन the annexation of Florida, and authored the Monroe doctrine.
इतिहासकारों agree he was one of the महानतम राजनयिकों and secretaries of राज्य in अमरीकी इतिहास.
as अध्यक्ष, he sought to modernize the American अर्थव्यवस्था and प्रचारित education.
Adams enacted a part of his agenda and paid बंद much of the national debt.
He थी stymied by a कॉंग्रेस controlled by his दुश्मनों, and उसके कमी of patronage networks helped राजनेता eager to undercut him.
he lost उसके 1828 bid लिये re-election to एंड्रयू Jackson.
In doing so, he became the पहला president चूंकि his पिता to serve a single term.
Adams is best known as a राजनयिक जो तराशा America 's विदेशी नीति in लकीर साथ his ardently राष्ट्रवादी प्रतिबद्धता to America 's रिपब्लिकन values.
More recently Howe ( 2007 ) portrayed Adams as the exemplar और moral leader in an era of modernization.
दौरान एडम्स ' lifetime, technological innovations और नई means of संचार स्प्रेड संदेश of religious पुनरुद्धार, social reform, और पार्टी politics.
goods, money, and लोगों traveled अधिक rapidly and efficiently than कभी before.
एडम्स थी निर्वाचित a U.S. प्रतिनिधि इससे मैसाचुसेट्स बाद leaving office, serving for the पिछला 17 years of उसके life साथ far greater acclamation than he था हासिल as अध्यक्ष.
he is, so दूर, the only president बाद elected to the संयुक्त States हाउस of Representatives ( though जॉन टायलर थी निर्वाचित to the House of प्रतिनिधि of the confederate States बस पहले उसके मौत in 1862 ).
Animated by his growing revulsion against गुलामी, एडम्स became a अग्रणी प्रतिद्वन्दी of the स्लेव शक्ति.
He predicted that if a civil war were to ब्रेक आउट, the अध्यक्ष could abolish गुलामी by using उसके war powers.
एडम्स भी पूर्वानुमानित the संघ 's dissolution over the गुलामी समस्या, but said that if the दक्षिण became independent there होता be a series of खूनी स्लेव revolts.
खिड़कियाँ Internet Explorer 9 ( IE9 ) is a संस्करण of the अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर web browser इससे microsoft.
it was released to the पब्लिक on कूच 14, 2011.
microsoft रै released Internet Explorer 9 as a major out-of-band संस्करण कि is नहीं tied to the रिलीज schedule of कोई particular संस्करण of Windows, नापसंद पिछला versions.
It is the first संस्करण since अंतरजाल Explorer 2 to not be bundled with a खिड़कियाँ ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली, although some oems have संस्थापित it with खिड़कियाँ 7 on their PCs, as well as new Windows 7 laptops.
The system आवश्यकताएँ for Internet Explorer 9 हैं Windows 7, खिड़कियाँ Server 2008 r2, खिड़कियाँ विस्टा सेवा पैक 2 or Windows सर्वर 2008 SP2 with the Platform Update.
Windows xp और पहले are नहीं समर्थित.
अंतरजाल Explorer 9 is the last version of Internet एक्सप्लोरर to be समर्थित on खिड़कियाँ Vista.
दोनो ia-32 and x64 builds are available.
अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर 9 supports अनेक सीएसएस 3 properties, embedded ICC v2 or v4 रंग profiles support via खिड़कियाँ Color प्रणाली, and रै improved जावास्क्रिप्ट performance.
it is the last of the five major web browsers to implement support लिये स्केलेबल Vector Graphics ( svg ).
It also features hardware-accelerated graphics रेंडरिंग using Direct2D, hardware-accelerated text rendering using directwrite, hardware-accelerated वीडियो rendering using Media Foundation, imaging support provided by Windows Imaging Component, and ऊँची fidelity printing संचालित by the xml पेपर specification ( XPS ) छपाई पाइपलाइन.
Internet Explorer 9 also supports the HTML5 वीडियो और audio टैग और the Web खोलें फ़ॉन्ट स्वरूप.
alka-seltzer is an effervescent antacid और पीड़ा reliever पहला marketed by the Dr. मील Medicine Company.
it थी developed by Maurice treener, सिर केमिस्ट at मील, in elkhart, इंडियाना.
alka-seltzer is marketed for राहत of minor aches, pains, inflammation, fever, headache, heartburn, खट्टा पेट, अपच, and hangovers, जबकि neutralizing excess stomach acid.
it थी launched in 1931.
a spin-off of Alka-Seltzer बना to relieve colds और फ्लू, Alka-Seltzer प्लस, was बाद introduced.
A short-lived antacid non-aspirin variant, Alka-Mints, थी introduced in 1994 और discontinued in 1997.
Alka-Seltzer is फिलहाल owned by Bayer schering फार्मा ag, Germany.
the नाम `` Alka-Seltzer '' रै been विस्तारित to incorporate an संपूर्ण लकीर of medications sold over the counter and taken by means of rapidly dissolving tablets कि रूप a carbonated समाधान in जल.
Cherry Alka Seltzer Plus Tablet dissolving in जल
चित्र showing the छह most आम speleothems with labels.
Enlarge to view लेबल्स.
a stalactite (, ; from the Greek stalasso, ( σταλάσσω ), `` to drip '', और meaning `` कि which drips '' ) is a type of speleothem ( secondary mineral ) that hangs इससे the ceiling of चूना caves.
It is a type of dripstone.
the सम्बन्धित formation on the floor of the गुफा is ज्ञात as a stalagmite.
उपाधि abbreviations are प्रयुक्त as an alternative रास्ता to बताएँ an academic degree बजाय of स्पेलिंग आउट the title in full, such as in reference books जैसे जो 's जो और on कारोबार ताश.
Many डिग्री have more than एक संक्षिप्त.
In the uk, it is not generally the custom to punctuate abbreviations for डिग्री साथ पूरा stops ( e.g. `` BSc '' बल्कि than `` b.sc. ``.
रेस is a classification system प्रयुक्त to categorize humans into large and पृथक populations or groups by anatomical, सांस्कृतिक, ethnic, जेनेटिक, भौगोलिक, ऐतिहासिक, linguistic, धार्मिक, or social संबद्ध.
पहला used to denote नेशनल affiliations, the term began to be used to relate to physical traits in the 17th century.
in the जल्दी 20th सदी the term थी often प्रयुक्त, in a taxonomic sense, to denote genetically differentiated human populations पारिभाषित by phenotype.
जबकि biologists sometimes उपयोग the concept of race to make भेद among fuzzy sets of traits, others in the scientific जातियाँ suggest कि the idea of race often is used in a naive or simplistic रास्ता, i.e. कि among humans, रेस रै no taxonomic significance : सब जीना humans belong to the same प्रजाति, Homo sapiens and subspecies, होमो sapiens sapiens.
Social conceptions और groupings of races vary over time, involving folk taxonomies
that define of individuals आधारित on perceived traits.
वैज्ञानिकों consider biological essentialism obsolete, and generally discourage racial स्पष्टीकरण लिये सामूहिक differentiation in both physical और behavioral traits.
चूंकि the second हाफ of the 20th century the associations of रेस साथ the विचारधाराओं and theories that grew out of the work of 19th-century विज्ञानियों and physiologists रै led to the use of the शब्द रेस itself बनने problematic.
Although स्टिल used in सामान्य contexts, it is अभी often replaced by अन्य words which are less ambiguous and emotionally charged, ऐसे as populations, लोगों ( s ), जातीय groups or communities depending on कॉन्टेक्स्ट.
लुसी स्टोन ( अगस्त 13, 1818 – अक्तूबर 19, 1893 ) थी a prominent अमरीकी abolitionist और suffragist, और a vocal एडवोकेट और organizer promoting अधिकारों लिये women.
In 1847, Stone became the पहला स्त्री from मैसाचुसेट्स to earn a कॉलेज उपाधि.
वो spoke out लिये women 's अधिकारों and against slavery at a time जब महिलाओं यहूद discouraged और prevented इससे public speaking.
स्टोन थी the पहला recorded American woman to retain उसके own last नाम after marriage.
स्टोन 's organizational क्रियाएँ लिये the cause of महिलाओं 's rights yielded ठोस gains in the difficult राजनैतिक पर्यावरण of the 19th century.
स्टोन helped initiate the first National महिलाओं 's अधिकारों Convention और she supported and sustained it annually साथ साथ a number of अन्य local, state और regional activist प्रथाओं.
Stone spoke in सामने of a क्रमांक of विधान bodies to प्रचार laws giving more rights to महिलाओं.
वो assisted in establishing the स्त्री 's नेशनल वफ़ादार लीग to सहायता pass the Thirteenth Amendment and thereby abolish slavery, after which she helped रूप the largest समूह of like-minded महिलाओं 's अधिकारों reformers, the politically मॉडरेट American स्त्री suffrage संघ, जिससे worked लिये दशकों at the state स्तर in एहसान of women 's सही to vote.
Stone लिखा extensively about a wide range of महिलाओं 's अधिकारों, publishing and distributing भाषणों by herself और अन्य, and सम्मेलन कार्यवाही.
In the long-running and influential Woman 's जर्नल, a साप्ताहिक periodical that she established and promoted, स्टोन aired दोनो उसके अपना and differing views about women 's rights.
Called `` the orator '' and `` the morning स्टार of the woman 's rights movement '', Stone वितरित a वाक जिससे sparked सुसान B. Anthony to लो up the cause of महिलाओं 's suffrage.
एलिज़ाबेथ cady Stanton लिखा that `` Lucy Stone थी the पहला person by whom the दिल of the अमरीकी पब्लिक was deeply stirred on the woman question. ''
Together, Anthony, Stanton, और स्टोन have महरूम called the 19th century `` triumvirate `` of women 's suffrage और नारीवाद.
in वित्त, a bond is an instrument of indebtedness of the bond जारीकर्ता to the holders.
it is a debt security, under which the issuer owes the धारकों a कर्ज़ और, depending on the terms of the bond, is obliged to अदा उन्हें ब्याज ( the coupon ) or to repay the principal at a later date, termed the maturity.
Interest is प्रायः payable at fixed intervals ( semiannual, सालाना, sometimes मासिक ).
बहुत often the बंध is परक्राम्य, i.e. the ownership of the यंत्र can be transferred in the secondary market.
यूँ a bond is a रूप of loan or IOU : the holder of the bond is the lender ( creditor ), the जारीकर्ता of the बंध is the borrower ( debtor ), and the coupon is the interest.
bonds provide the borrower with external निधि to finance long-term निवेश, or, in the case of government bonds, to वित्त वर्तमान expenditure.
प्रमाणपत्र of जमा ( CDs ) or छोटी term commercial पेपर हैं considered to be money मार्केट यंत्र और नहीं bonds : the main अंतर is in the लंबाई of the term of the instrument.
bonds और स्टॉक्स हैं both प्रतिभूति, but the प्रमुख difference between the दो is कि ( पूंजी ) stockholders have an इक्विटी हिस्सेदारी in the company ( i.e. वे are स्वामी ), whereas bondholders have a creditor हिस्सेदारी in the company ( i.e. they हैं lenders ).
another difference is कि bonds usually have a defined term, or परिपक्वता, बाद which the बंध is redeemed, whereas stocks may be outstanding indefinitely.
An एक्सेप्शन is an irredeemable bond, ऐसे as consols, जिससे is a perpetuity, i.e. a बंध with no maturity.
A स्केल मॉडल of the मीनार of लंदन.
इस मॉडल can be found अंदर the tower.
स्केल model of water powered टर्बाइन
l to r with 12 inch ruler at नीचे : 1:64 Matchbox Chevrolet Tahoe, 1:43 Ford F-100, 1:25 Revell Monogram 1999 Ford mustang कोबरा, 1:18 bburago 1987 फेरारी F40
Model ships और castle
a स्केल मॉडल is a शारीरिक model, a प्रतिनिधित्व or नक़ल of an ऑब्जेक्ट कि is larger or छोटी than the वास्तविक size of the object, which seeks to maintain the सापेक्ष proportions ( the scale factor ) of the physical आकार of the original ऑब्जेक्ट.
Very often the scale model is used as a मार्गदर्शिका to बनाना the ऑब्जेक्ट in पूरा आकार.
स्केल models are निर्मित or collected for अनेक कारण.
The zune HD was a portable मीडिया खिलाड़ी in the Zune product family released on September 15, 2009 by microsoft.
it थी a सीधा प्रतिस्पर्धी with the Apple iPod and iphone series of मोबाईल devices.
it थी initially released in 16 and 32 gb capacities.
a 64 GB संस्करण थी released on अप्रैल 9, 2010.
It utilized a touchscreen interface for नेविगेशन और included wi-fi for तुल्यकालन, access to the zune मार्केटप्लेस और Web browsing.
The Zune hd utilized the Nvidia tegra APX 2600 chip, allowing it to play 720p video through the optional hdmi Zune dock on a high-definition टेलीविज़न.
वरना, content would be scaled bas to 480x272 पिक्सेल on the player 's OLED touchscreen.
बूढ़ा sparky, the इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी प्रयुक्त at गाओ Sing prison
Execution by electrocution, प्रायः performed using an इलेक्ट्रिक chair, is an execution method originating in the United राज्य in which the condemned व्यक्ति is strapped to a specially निर्मित wooden chair और electrocuted through electrodes placed on the देह.
इस execution विधि थी निर्मित by employees of थामस एडिसन during the युद्ध of currents, और रै महरूम प्रयुक्त तभी in the United States and, लिये a period of several decades, in the Philippines ( इसके पहला use there in 1924 अंतर्गत अमरीकी occupation, पिछला in 1976 ).
historically, once the condemned व्यक्ति थी attached to the chair, various चक्र ( differing in वोल्टेज and अवधि ) of प्रत्यावर्ती current होता be passed through the individual 's देह, in order to कारण fatal क्षति to the internal organs ( सहित the brain ).
the पहला jolt of electric वर्तमान थी designed to कारण immediate unconsciousness and दिमाग death ; the second एक थी designed to कारण fatal damage to the vital organs.
मौत थी frequently caused by विद्युत overstimulation of the heart.
हालांकि in the United States the इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी रै become a प्रतीक of the मौत दंड, इसके उपयोग is in मनाही due to the वृद्धि of lethal इंजेक्शन, जिससे is widely believed to be a more दयालु method of execution.
हालांकि some states स्टिल maintain electrocution as a विधि of निष्पादन, today it is तभी कायम as a द्वितीयक विधि that may be chosen over lethal इंजेक्शन at the निवेदन of the कैदी.
as of 2010, electrocution is an optional रूप of निष्पादन in Alabama, Florida, दक्षिण Carolina और Virginia.
They allow the prisoner to choose lethal injection as an वैकल्पिक method.
In the राज्य of Kentucky and Tennessee, the इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी has महरूम रिटायर्ड except for those जिनकी पूंजी crimes were committed prior to legislated तिथियाँ in 1998 ( Kentucky : कूच 31, 1998 ; टेनेसी : December 31, 1998 ) and जो chose electrocution.
In both states, inmates जो do not चुनें electrocution or inmates who वचनबद्ध their अपराधों after the designated date हैं killed by lethal injection.
The electric कुर्सी is an alternate रूप of निष्पादन approved लिये potential उपयोग in Arkansas and ओक्लाहोमा if other forms of निष्पादन are मिला unconstitutional in the state at the time of निष्पादन.
it is the sole method of निष्पादन in Vermont, where देशद्रोह is the only capital अपराधों.
On February 8, 2008, the नेब्रास्का Supreme अदालत determined that execution by electric chair was a `` cruel and unusual दंड '' अंतर्गत the state 's constitution.
इस brought executions of this type to an end in नेब्रास्का, the तभी बाकी state to retain electrocution as its sole method of execution for murder.
the मेरीलैंड हाउस of Delegates is the lower हाउस of the सामान्य Assembly, the state विधानमंडल of the अमरीकी राज्य of मेरीलैंड, और is रचित of 141 Delegates elected from 47 districts.
The हाउस of Delegates Chamber is located in the Maryland State House ( राज्य कैपिटल ) on State वृत्त in Annapolis, which is the राज्य capital.
The राज्य House भी houses the मेरीलैंड राज्य Senate कक्ष और the कार्यालयों of the राज्यपाल और लेफ्टिनेंट Governor of the State of मेरीलैंड.
प्रत्येक Delegate has कार्यालयों in Annapolis, in the आसपास Casper R. Taylor, jr. House दफ्तर Building.
The मुक्ति of पेरिस ( भी ज्ञात as the बैटल for Paris ) took place during World युद्ध II इससे 19 अगस्त 1944 until the surrender of the occupying German garrison on 25 अगस्त.
the मुक्ति of Paris started साथ an uprising by the French Resistance विरूद्ध the German गैरीसन.
on 24 अगस्त, the French शक्तियां of the Interior ( शक्तियां françaises de l'intérieur, FFI ) received सुदृढीकरण इससे the फ़्री फ्रेंच Army of मुक्ति and from the U.S. Third Army अंतर्गत General patton.
the पूंजी region of फ़्रांस था been governed by नाजी Germany since the signing of the दूसरी compiègne armistice in जून 1940, जब the जर्मनी फौज occupied उत्तरी and westernmost France, and when the कठपुतली शासन of Vichy France थी established in the कस्बा of Vichy in सेंट्रल France.
This battle marked the liberation of Paris and the निर्वासन of the vichy government to sigmaringen in जर्मनी.
however, there थी still much heavy लड़ to be किया before France थी liberated, सहित the अभियान in दक्षिणी फ़्रांस दौरान august-september ( in provence and extending into the southwestern प्रदेश of the vosges kyu ), साथ the German-held seaports of पश्चिमी फ़्रांस ( ऐसे as at brest और dunkirk ), in alsace और लोरेन in पूर्वी फ़्रांस, और in northeastern फ़्रांस, such as साथ the राइन and Moder Rivers.
The जर्मनी फौज और SS लड़ा doggedly in ये क्षेत्रों for the remainder of 1944 and into 1945.
`` feelin ' alright ? '' also known as `` Feeling Alright '' is a सोंग written by डेव मेसन of the अंग्रेज़ी चट्टान band ट्रैफ़िक इससे their eponymous 1968 एल्बम, ट्रैफ़िक.
The song थी also a hit सिंगल for several performers : Joe Cocker ( 1969, # 69, recharted in 1972, US # 33 ), mongo santamaría ( 1969, # 95 ) और ग्रैंड Funk Railroad ( 1971, US # 54 ).
It has भी महरूम recorded by तीन Dog रात्रि ( 1969 ), The 5th आयाम ( 1970 ), लू राल्स, फ्रेडी किंग, पॉल weller, Lulu, Chairmen of the फलक ( 1970 ), Rare Earth, The Electric Concept Orchestra, माँ 's Finest ( 1973 ), the ओहियो खिलाड़ी ( 1971 ), Diana रॉस साथ the Jackson 5 ( 1971 ), maceo Parker, Gladys नाईट & the Pips, फैली Panic और the ब्लैक crowes.
a Steel Drum संस्करण by त्रिनिदाद Oil Company थी reissued on the dancefloor जैज़ compilation ब्लू रस 2.
it थी also featured in the 2000 फिल्मी Duets, सुंग by Huey लुईस.
Both the original and the Joe cocker cover यहूद प्रदर्शित in the फिल्म उड़ान, अभिनीत डेंज़ल Washington.
देवों werkheiser ( born कूच 8,1991 ) is an अमरीकी कर्ता, आवाज़ कर्ता, सिंगर, songwriter और musician, बेहतरीन ज्ञात for उसके अभिनीत भूमिका as ned bigby on the Nickelodeon sitcom ned 's declassified स्कूल Survival Guide and लिये उसके भूमिका in the 2007 tv फिल्म shredderman Rules, as the सीसे अक्षर Nolan byrd.
Werkheiser भी played Peter Parkes in the fourth और फाइनल ऋतु of the ABC Family दिखाएँ Greek.
नमूना view of an electronic health रिकार्ड आधारित on images
नमूना view of an electronic health रिकार्ड
An इलेक्ट्रॉनिक health record ( ehr ) is an evolving concept पारिभाषित as a systematic संग्रहण of electronic स्वास्थ्य information परिचय व्यक्तिगत मरीजों or populations.
it is a record in digital format कि is theoretically सक्षम of being साझा आरपार different स्वास्थ्य care जमावट.
In कुछ मामले this sharing can occur by way of network-connected enterprise-wide information प्रणालियों और अन्य सूचना संजाल or exchanges.
ehrs may include a range of आंकड़ा, including demographics, चिकित्सा इतिहास, medication and allergies, immunization status, प्रयोगशाला test results, radiology images, vital signs, personal आंकड़े like age and weight, and billing सूचना.
Loan origination is the process by which a borrower applies लिये a new loan, और a lender processes कि अनुप्रयोग.
Origination generally includes all the steps from लेने a loan अनुप्रयोग up to disbursal of निधि ( or घटती the अनुप्रयोग ).
Loan सर्विसिंग कवर everything बाद disbursing the निधि until the loan is fully paid बंद.
ऋण origination is a specialized संस्करण of नई account खोलने for वित्तीय सेवाएं संगठन.
निश्चित लोगों and organizations specialize in loan origination.
Mortgage brokers और अन्य बंधक originator कंपनियाँ serve as a prominent example.
वहीँ हैं अनेक different types of loans.
For more सूचना on ऋण प्रकार, see the loan and consumer lending articles.
कदम शामिल in originating a loan vary by ऋण type, विभिन्न kinds of ऋण रिस्क, नियामक, lender नीति, and अन्य factors.
शीर्ष left : the टेनेसी Valley Authority, part of the नई सौदे, being signed into law in 1933.
Top right : फ्रैंकलिन delano Roosevelt, who was responsible लिये पहलों और programs collectively ज्ञात as the New Deal.
नीचे : A पब्लिक mural इससे one of the कलाकारों employed by the नई सौदे.
the नई Deal was a series of आर्थिक कार्यक्रम enacted in the United राज्य between 1933 and 1936.
They involved अध्यक्षीय कार्यपालिका आदेश or कानून passed by कॉंग्रेस during the first पद of President Franklin D. रूज़वेल्ट.
The कार्यक्रम were in response to the Great अवसाद, and focused on what इतिहासकारों कॉल the `` 3 Rs '' : राहत, रिकवरी, and Reform.
कि is राहत लिये the unemployed और ग़रीब ; Recovery of the economy to सामान्य levels ; और सुधार of the financial system to prevent a repeat depression.
The नई सौदे उत्पादित a राजनैतिक realignment, बनाना the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी the majority ( as well as the पार्टी that आयोजित the White House लिये seven आउट of nine अध्यक्षीय terms इससे 1933 to 1969 ), साथ its base in liberal विचार, the white South, traditional Democrats, big नगर machines, और the newly सशक्त labor unions और जातीय अल्पसंख्यकों.
The Republicans यहूद split, साथ conservatives opposing the संपूर्ण नई Deal as an दुश्मन of कारोबार और विकास, और liberals accepting कुछ of it and promising to make it अधिक efficient.
the realignment crystallized into the नई Deal गठबन्धन कि वर्चस्व सबसे अध्यक्षीय चुनावों into the 1960s, while the opposition Conservative Coalition largely नियंत्रित Congress इससे 1937 to 1963.
by 1936 the term `` liberal '' typically was प्रयुक्त लिये supporters of the नई सौदे, and `` conservative `` लिये its opponents.
From 1934 to 1938, रूज़वेल्ट थी assisted in his endeavours by a “pro-spender” majority in Congress ( drawn इससे two-party, competitive, non-machine, Progressive, and बाएँ party districts ).
As noted by सिकंदर हिक्स, “roosevelt, समर्थित by rare, non-Southern डेमोक्रेट majorities — 270 non-southern Democrat representatives और 71 non-southern डेमोक्रेट सीनेटरों — spelled दूसरी नई Deal reform.”
अनेक historians फर्क between a `` पहला नई Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) and a `` Second New Deal '' ( 1935–38 ), with the second एक अधिक liberal और अधिक controversial.
The `` पहला नई Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) dealt साथ diverse groups, from बैंकिंग and railroads to उद्योग and खेती, सब of which मांगे help for economic अस्तित्व.
the Federal Emergency Relief प्रशासन, for instance, provided $ 500 million लिये relief परिचालन by states and शहरों, जबकि the short-lived cwa ( सिविल Works Administration ) gave बस्तियों money to operate make-work प्रोजेक्ट in 1933-34.
the `` Second नई Deal `` in 1935–38 included the वेगनर अधिनियम to promote labor unions, the Works Progress प्रशासन ( WPA ) relief कार्यक्रम ( जिससे made the संघीय सरकारी by far the largest single नियोक्ता in the स्वदेश ), the Social Security अधिनियम, और new programs to aid tenant किसानो and migrant मजदूर.
the फाइनल major items of New Deal legislation यहूद the creation of the संयुक्त राज्य आवास प्राधिकार and फार्म Security Administration, दोनो in 1937, and the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, which set maximum घंटों and न्यूनतम मजदूरी लिये most categories of workers.
the economic downturn of 1937–38, and the कड़वा विभाजित between the afl and cio मजदूर संघ led to major Republican gains in Congress in 1938.
रूढ़िवादी republicans और डेमोक्रेट in Congress joined in the informal Conservative Coalition.
by 1942–43 they shut bas राहत कार्यक्रम such as the WPA और ccc और blocked major liberal प्रस्ताव.
Roosevelt खुद turned his attention to the युद्ध effort, और won reelection in 1940 और 1944.
the परम् अदालत घोषित the National रिकवरी प्रशासन ( nra ) and the पहला संस्करण of the agricultural Adjustment अधिनियम ( AAA ) unconstitutional, however the aaa थी rewritten और then upheld.
As the पहला रिपब्लिकन अध्यक्ष निर्वाचित बाद fdr, Dwight D. आइज़नहावर ( 1953–61 ) left the New सौदे largely intact, even expanding it in some क्षेत्रों.
In the 1960s, Lyndon B. जॉनसन 's ग्रेट समाज used the नई Deal as प्रेरणा लिये a नाटकीय expansion of उदार programs, which रिपब्लिकन रिचर्ड M. निक्सन generally retained.
After 1974, however, the कॉल लिये deregulation of the अर्थव्यवस्था gained bipartisan support.
The नई सौदे विनियमन of बैंकिंग ( glass–steagall Act ) थी निलंबित in the 1990s.
अनेक नई सौदे कार्यक्रम remain active, साथ कुछ स्टिल operating अंतर्गत the असली names, including the Federal जमा Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ), the Federal क्रॉप Insurance निगम ( fcic ), the संघीय आवास प्रशासन ( fha ), और the Tennessee घाटी Authority ( त्व ).
The largest कार्यक्रम स्टिल in अस्तित्व आज हैं the सोशल Security प्रणाली और the Securities और एक्सचेंज आयोग ( सेक ).
a स्त्री ( ), pl : women ( ) is a मादा इंसान.
the पद स्त्री is प्रायः सुरक्षित लिये an वयस्क, साथ the पद लड़की being the usual पद for a मादा चाइल्ड or adolescent.
However, the पद woman is also sometimes used to identify a female इंसान, regardless of आयु, as in phrases such as `` Women 's rights ``.
महिलाओं हैं typically सक्षम of giving जनम, though older महिलाओं who have गए through रजोनिवृत्ति और कुछ intersex महिलाओं can नहीं.
`` I Do n't want to Miss a बात '' is a सोंग performed by अमरीकी चट्टान band Aerosmith for the 1998 फिल्मी Armageddon.
Written by डायने वारेन, the सोंग debuted at number one on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 ( the पहला # 1 लिये the band बाद 28 years साथ ).
the सोंग ठहरे at number एक for चार weeks इससे सितंबर 5 to सितंबर 26, 1998.
The song भी ठहरे at number 1 लिये अनेक सप्ताह in अनेक other countries.
in the UK, the song peaked at number four, becoming Aerosmith 's highest charting सोंग in the UK, where it थी the 17th best-selling single of 1998, and रै बेची over a लाख नक़ल.
हालांकि नहीं प्रयुक्त by the बहुमत of the संसार 's देशों, daylight saving समय is common in the पश्चिमी world.
daylight छायांकन time ( DST ) —also गर्मियाँ समय in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी — is the practice of advancing clocks दौरान the हल्का months so that evenings have अधिक daylight और mornings have कम.
typically घड़ियाँ हैं adjusted आगे one घंटा near the प्रारंभ of वसन्त and are समायोजित पिछड़ा in autumn.
the आधुनिक idea of daylight छायांकन was first proposed in 1895 by जार्ज Vernon हडसन और it थी first implemented during the पहला संसार युद्ध.
Many देशों have used it at various times चूंकि then.
Much of the संयुक्त राज्य प्रयुक्त DST in the 1950s और 1960s, और DST उपयोग विस्तारित following the 1970s उर्जा संकट और has been widely प्रयुक्त in उत्तर America and Europe चूंकि तब.
the practice रै महरूम दोनो praised and criticized.
Adding daylight to evenings लाभ retailing, sports, and अन्य activities कि exploit sunlight बाद working hours, but can cause problems लिये संध्या entertainment और अन्य occupations tied to the सूर्य.
Although an जल्दी goal of DST was to reduce संध्या उपयोग of incandescent lighting ( formerly a primary use of electricity ), modern हीटिंग and cooling उपयोग patterns differ greatly, and शोध about how dst currently affects उर्जा उपयोग is limited or contradictory.
dst क्लॉक shifts present other चुनौतियां.
वे complicate timekeeping, और can disrupt meetings, travel, बिलिंग, रिकार्ड keeping, चिकित्सा डिवाइस, भारी equipment, और नींद patterns.
Software can प्रायः adjust computer घड़ियाँ automatically, but this can be सीमित और error-prone, विशेषकर जब dst dates हैं बदला.
floorplan of the Château de Montargis
montargis is a commune in the Loiret विभाग in north-central France on the loing river.
the town is स्तिथ about दक्षिण of पेरिस and ईस्ट of Orléans in the gâtinais.
montargis is the second largest नगर in the loiret, बाद orléans.
It is near a large वन, और contains light उद्योग and खेती, including केसरिया.
due to its numerous नहरों and पुलों, montargis sometimes बिल्स itself as the `` वेनिस of the gâtinais. ''
Though quite आधुनिक, it retains a मध्यकालीन charm in its शहर क्षेत्रफल.
in computer storage, a logical unit क्रमांक, or lun, is a number used to identify a लॉजिकल ईकाई, which is a device addressed by the scsi protocol or protocols which encapsulate SCSI, such as fibre Channel or iSCSI.
A lun may be used with कोई यंत्र जिससे supports read/write परिचालन, such as a tape ड्राइव, but is सबसे प्रायः used to refer to a लॉजिकल डिस्क as created on a सैन.
Though not technically correct, the पद `` LUN '' is often भी used to refer to the logical disk itself.
The Gospel According to Mark (,, to euangelion kata markon ), commonly shortened to the Gospel of Mark or simply चिह्नित, is the दूसरी किताब of the New वसीयत.
इस canonical account of the जीवन of Jesus of Nazareth is one of the तीन synoptic gospels.
it थी विचार to be an निचोड़, जिससे accounts लिये इसके प्लेस as the दूसरी gospel in the Bible.
However, सबसे समकालीन विद्वानों now लिहाज़ it as the earliest of the canonical gospels ( c 70 ).
कि Mark थी प्रयुक्त as a सोर्स लिये the other synoptic gospels Gospel of Matthew and इन्जील of ल्यूक is widely held by many, हालांकि नहीं सब, New वसीयत scholars.
the इन्जील of चिह्नित narrates the Ministry of Jesus from उसके बपतिस्मा by John the Baptist to his मौत and resurrection.
It focuses विशेषकर on the पिछला week of his life ( अध्याय 11–16 ) in जेरूसलम.
Its swift narrative portrays यीशु as a वीर man of action, an exorcist, healer और miracle worker.
an important theme of Mark is the Messianic Secret.
Jesus silences the demoniacs he heals, tries unsuccessfully to keep उसके मुक्तिदाता identity रहस्य, और conceals his संदेश with parables.
Meanwhile, the शिष्यों fail to understand both the implication of the चमत्कार of Jesus and the अर्थ of the things he predicts परिचय his arrest, death और resurrection.
Most scholars मानना कि the original टेक्स्ट of the gospel ends at चिह्नित 16:8 with the discovery of यीशु ' खाली मकबरा और that the following खाता of his resurrection दिखावे is a बाद addition.
according to परंपरा and कुछ जल्दी गिरिजाघर writers, the author is चिह्नित the इंजीलवादी, the साथी of the apostle पीटर.
the इन्जील, however, appears to rely on अनेक underlying sources, varying in रूप and in theology, which tells against the tradition that the gospel थी based on Peter 's उपदेश.
the टेक्स्ट is a compilation which may शामिल eye-witness accounts as well as ज्ञात apostolic preachings, and pre-existing written records that do not मौजूद आज लकिन can be पुष्टि इससे 2nd-century commentators.
कुछ of the stories in the gospel may have been transmitted orally पहले being लिखा down.
Various elements भीतर the इन्जील suggest that the लेखक लिखा in Syria or फिलिस्तीन लिये a non-jewish ईसाई community.
The रब of the बजती is an epic high fantasy अनोखा लिखा by English भाषाशास्त्री and University of ऑक्सफोर्ड professor J. R. R. tolkien.
the स्टोरी began as a sequel to Tolkien 's 1937 children 's काल्पनिक अनोखा The होब्बिट, लकिन eventually विकसित into a much larger कार्य.
It was लिखा in चरण between 1937 and 1949, much of it during संसार War ii.
It is the दूसरी best-selling novel ever written, साथ over 150 million नक़ल sold.
the title of the novel refers to the स्टोरी 's प्रमुख antagonist, the अंधेरा Lord sauron, जो had in an पहले age निर्मित the One Ring to नियम the other बजती of शक्ति as the परम weapon in his campaign to जीतें and नियम सब of middle-earth.
From quiet beginnings in the Shire, a Hobbit land नहीं unlike the English countryside, the स्टोरी ranges across north-west middle-earth, following the course of the युद्ध of the Ring through the आँखें of its वर्ण, notably the hobbits Frodo baggins, samwise `` Sam '' gamgee, meriadoc `` मैरी '' Brandybuck and peregrin `` Pippin '' Took, but भी the hobbits ' chief allies and यात्राएं companions : aragorn, a Human Ranger ; boromir, a man इससे gondor ; gimli, a Dwarf योद्धा ; legolas, an Elven प्रिंस ; and gandalf, a जादूगर.
the work थी initially intended by tolkien to be one आवाज़ of a two-volume set, with the other being the Silmarillion, लकिन this विचार थी बर्खास्त by his publisher.
it was decided लिये आर्थिक reasons to प्रकाशित The रब of the बजती as three आयतन over the कोर्स of a year इससे 29 जुलाई 1954 to 20 अक्तूबर 1955, thus creating the now परिचित Lord of the बजती त्रयी.
the three आयतन were entitled The Fellowship of the रिंग, the Two Towers, and the वापसी of the King.
structurally, the अनोखा is विभाजित internally into छह books, दो प्रति volume, with several appendices of पृष्ठभूमि material included at the समाप्त of the तीसरा आवाज़.
The Lord of the बजती रै चूंकि been reprinted numerous टाइम्स and अनूदित into अनेक languages.
tolkien 's work रै महरूम the subject of extensive analysis of its themes और origins.
Although a प्रमुख work in itself, the स्टोरी थी only the पिछला गति of a larger epic tolkien had worked on since 1917, in a process he described as mythopoeia.
प्रभाव on इस earlier कार्य, और on the story of the रब of the बजती, शामिल philology, mythology, धर्म और the author 's distaste लिये the प्रभाव of industrialization, as खूब as earlier fantasy works और Tolkien 's अनुभवों in World युद्ध i.
The रब of the बजती in इसके फेरे is माना to have था a great प्रभाव on modern काल्पनिक ; the impact of Tolkien 's works is ऐसे that the उपयोग of the words `` tolkienian '' और `` tolkienesque '' have been recorded in the Oxford English शब्दकोष.
The enduring popularity of The रब of the Rings has led to numerous सन्दर्भ in लोकप्रिय culture, the founding of many societies by प्रशंसक of tolkien 's works, और the publication of अनेक किताबे परिचय tolkien and his works.
The Lord of the Rings has प्रेरित, and continues to inspire, कलाकृति, म्यूज़िक, films और television, video games, and subsequent साहित्य.
Award-winning adaptations of the Lord of the बजती have महरूम made लिये radio, theatre, और फिल्मी.
The following is an episode list for the Nickelodeon sitcom Drake & Josh.
the series debuted on जनवरी 11, 2004.
A TV फिल्मी मैरी Christmas, Drake & जोश was made अलावा from the नियमित series on दिसम्बर 5, 2008.
There are a total of 60 episodes यहूद produced spanning four seasons.
Drake घंटी, Josh पेक, and मिरांडा Cosgrove were the तभी actors to appear in all 60 episodes.
The सैन फ्रांसिस्को 49ers conduct प्रशिक्षण camp at the team 's headquarters and अभ्यास सुविधा in Santa क्लारा, कैलिफ़ोर्निया in अगस्त 2010.
The ठोकर is wearing red jerseys साथ the एक्सेप्शन of क्वार्टरबैक Alex Smith, जो is in a ब्लैक jersey ; the defense in श्वेत.
In the National फ़ुटबॉल लीग, training शिविर refers to the समय before the season commences.
दौरान this time, teams will sometimes congregate at an बाहर location, usually a विश्वविद्यालयों, to conduct प्रशिक्षण शिविर for at least the first few weeks.
इस is समान to baseball 's वसन्त प्रशिक्षण.
Training शिविर is प्रयुक्त in several different तरीके.
New players and coaches उपयोग it to acclimate themselves to नई teammates and systems.
लिये younger खिलाड़ी, it serves as a काल of मूल्यांकन ; for दिग्गजों, it is time to round वापस into form.
प्रशिक्षण शिविर is divided into अनेक different components.
the पहला is scrimmages.
ये are pseudo-games जहाँ टीमों चलाएं nearly पूरा खेल ' लायक of plays.
sometimes, दो अभ्यास सत्र are held on the same दिन.
इस अवधारणा is referred to as two-a-days.
Other parts of training शिविर शामिल drills, meetings साथ coaches and other players at एक 's position, weight प्रशिक्षण, और pre-season games.
The latter half of training शिविर leads सीधे into the exhibition season.
साथ NFL प्रशिक्षण शिविरों starting in late-july, the biggest चिंता has महरूम निर्जलीकरण.
in 2001, मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स खिलाड़ी Korey Stringer died of a चिकित्सा condition based इससे निर्जलीकरण and heatstroke.
The death of stringer prompted the एनएफएल to change उनके प्रशिक्षण नीतियों.
at each practice, every team must have the टोली doctor and प्रशिक्षकों on the field ; additionally, an एम्बुलेंस must be उपस्थित दौरान practices.
साथ एनएफएल प्रशिक्षण camps beginning in late July, कठोर मौसम can affect अभ्यास और प्रदर्शनी खेल.
in 2002, a Cleveland भूरा प्रदर्शनी खेल ended due to lightning near क्लीवलैंड भूरा Stadium, और कठोर storms have been ज्ञात to disrupt training शिविरों.
Fans हैं often able to विज़िट their पसंदीदा team 's प्रशिक्षण camp to catch an early dekh at the players ; admission to practices is प्रायः फ़्री or substantially less expensive than a game टिकट, making प्रशिक्षण camp यात्राएँ a popular विकल्प for fans who can नहीं attend many खेल due to financial or अन्य कारण.
एनएफएल टीमों often बेचें souvenirs और concessions at camp साइट along with offering activities and कार्यक्रम to मेक प्रशिक्षण शिविर a अधिक fan-friendly अनुभव.
In computing, a file प्रणाली ( or filesystem ) is a प्रकार of data स्टोर जिससे can be used to स्टोर, retrieve और update a नियत of files.
The पद could refer to the अमूर्त data structures used to define files, or to the actual software or फर्मवेयर components that implement the अमूर्त विचार.
कुछ संचिका प्रणालियों हैं used on local data storage डिवाइस ; others provide file access via a संजाल protocol ( e.g. NFS, smb, or 9p क्लाइंट ).
Some file प्रणालियों हैं `` आभासी '', in that the `` फाइलें '' supplied are computed on request ( e.g. procfs ) or हैं merely a मानचित्रण into a अलग file system used as a बैकिंग स्टोर.
the file system manages access to both the सामग्री of फाइलें and the मेटाडेटा about those फाइलें.
It is जिम्मेदार लिये arranging storage स्पेस ; reliability, दक्षता, and tuning साथ regard to the physical भंडार मीडियम are महत्वपूर्ण डिज़ाइन considerations.
William हावर्ड Taft ( September 15, 1857 – कूच 8, 1930 ) थी the 27th अध्यक्ष of the United States ( 1909–1913 ) and later the tenth मुख्य इंसाफ of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1921–1930 ).
he is the only व्यक्ति to have served in both of these कार्यालयों.
पहले बनने President, Taft, a रिपब्लिकन, थी चयनित to serve on the श्रेष्ठ Court of Cincinnati in 1887.
In 1890, Taft थी नियुक्त solicitor सामान्य of the United राज्य और in 1891 a न्यायधीश on the United States Court of appeals for the Sixth Circuit.
In 1900, अध्यक्ष William McKinley नियुक्त taft Governor-General of the फिलीपीन.
In 1904, President Theodore रूज़वेल्ट appointed Taft Secretary of War in an प्रयत्न to groom Taft, then उसके close political ally, into उसके handpicked presidential successor.
Taft assumed a prominent भूमिका in प्रॉब्लम solving, assuming on कुछ occasions the role of एक्टिंग Secretary of राज्य, जबकि घटती दोहराया offers इससे रूज़वेल्ट to serve on the Supreme Court.
Riding a wave of popular support लिये fellow Republican Roosevelt, taft जीती an आसान विजय in उसके 1908 बोली for the presidency.
in उसके तभी term, Taft 's domestic agenda emphasized trust-busting, civil सेवा reform, strengthening the Interstate Commerce Commission, improving the performance of the डाक service, and passage of the Sixteenth Amendment.
Abroad, Taft sought to further the आर्थिक development of nations in लैटिन अमेरिका and Asia through `` डालर Diplomacy ``, और showed decisiveness और restraint in जवाब to revolution in Mexico.
the task-oriented Taft was oblivious to the political ramifications of his निर्णय, often alienated his own कुंजी constituencies, and was overwhelmingly defeated in उसके बोली for a second पद in the presidential चुनाव of 1912.
In surveys of presidential scholars, taft is प्रायः क्रमित निकट the मध्य of सूचियाँ of सब अमरीकी Presidents.
बाद leaving office, taft spent उसके time in academia, मध्यस्थता, and the search for संसार सलाम through his self-founded League to Enforce सलाम.
in 1921, after the पहला संसार War, President वारेन G. Harding appointed Taft मुख्य Justice of the संयुक्त राज्य.
Taft served in this capacity until shortly पहले his मौत in 1930.
The टेन Commandments is a 1956 एपिक film produced and निर्देशित by सेसिल B. DeMille that dramatized the biblical story of the Exodus, in जिससे the Hebrew-born Moses, an adopted Egyptian प्रिंस, becomes the deliverer of the यहूदी slaves.
it स्ट्रक्चर चार्ल्टन Heston in the lead role, Yul Brynner as उसके adoptive brother, pharaoh rameses ii, Anne Baxter as nefretiri, एडवर्ड G. रॉबिन्सन as dathan, yvonne de कार्लो as sephora, Debra पेजेट as Lilia, and John Derek as जोशुआ.
the supporting cast includes Sir सेड्रिक hardwicke as pharaoh सेती I, Nina Foch as Bithiah, मार्था स्कॉट as yoshebel, Judith Anderson as Memnet, Vincent Price as baka, और जॉन carradine as आरोन.
The film थी released by सर्वोपरि तस्वीरें in VistaVision on अक्तूबर 5, 1956.
the टेन Commandments, which demille narrated, was the last फिल्मी कि he directed.
he was set to सीधा the 1958 remake of उसके 1938 फिल्मी the Buccaneer, but his फाइनल बीमारी मजबूर उसे to relinquish the directing chores to his son-in-law, actor Anthony Quinn.
demille had also planned to film the जीवन of Lord baden Powell, the founder of the स्काउट movement, with David niven ; this project was never realized.
the Ten Commandments is a partial remake of demille 's 1923 मूक फिल्मी.
Some of the डाल और crew of the 1956 संस्करण worked on the असली.
It has since महरूम remade as a television miniseries ब्रॉडकास्ट in अप्रैल 2006.
The Ten Commandments is one of the most financially successful films कभी बना, grossing over $ 65 लाख at the U.S. बक्सा दफ्तर.
adjusting for inflation, this makes it the छठे highest-grossing फिल्मी domestically, with an समायोजित total of $ 1,025,730,000 in 2012.
the बक्सा office website `` the Numbers '' सूचियाँ the घरेलू सकल at $ 80 लाख.
in 1999, the Ten Commandments was चयनित लिये preservation in the United राज्य नेशनल फिल्मी रजिस्ट्री by the पुस्तकालयों of Congress as being `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
in June 2008, the अमरीकी Film संस्थान नाज़िल its `` Ten Top टेन `` —the बेहतरीन टेन films in टेन American फिल्मी genres—after polling over 1,500 people from the creative community.
the टेन आयतें थी listed as the tenth बेहतरीन film in the एपिक genre.
the film प्राप्त सात अकादमी Award nominations including बेहतरीन Picture, और won the अकादमी Award for Best विज़ुअल Effects.
Charlton Heston was nominated for a सुनहरी Globe Award for Best Motion Picture Actor in the नाटक category.
Yul brynner जीती the National Board of पुनर्विलोकन Award for Best कर्ता for his भूमिका as Rameses, साथ साथ his other भूमिकाएँ in the King and i and अनास्तासिया.
Louisville (, or ) is a major नगर and the largest नगर in the U.S. राज्य of Kentucky और the काउंटी seat of Jefferson County.
चूंकि 2003, the city 's borders have महरूम साथ those of the काउंटी क्युकी of a city-county विलय.
The नगर 's total संचित population at the 2010 census थी 741,096 ( Louisville 's balance कुल, 602,011, excludes semi-autonomous कस्बों and is the population सूचीबद्ध in सबसे sources और national rankings ).
As of 2010, the louisville महानगर क्षेत्रफल ( MSA ) था a population of 1,307,647 ranking 42nd nationally.
the metro area includes Louisville-Jefferson County और 12 surrounding काउंटी, eight in केंटकी और four in दक्षिणी इंडियाना ( देखिए Geography नीचे ).
The louisville संयुक्त Statistical Area, having a population of 1,451,564, शामिल the MSA, Hardin काउंटी and larue काउंटी in केंटकी, और स्कॉट County, इंडियाना.
an important internal shipping port in the 19th century, Louisville आज is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the स्थान of the Kentucky डर्बी, the first of तीन annual thoroughbred घोड़ा races बनाना up the ट्रिपल क्राउन.
a ठेठ experimental setup लिये an aldol reaction.
Both flasks हैं submerged in a शुष्क ice/acetone कूलिंग bath ( −78 °C ) the temperature of which is being monitored by a thermocouple ( the wire on the बाएँ ).
a cooling bath, in प्रयोगशाला chemistry ( प्रायः लकिन not always organic रसायन ) practice, is a liquid मिश्रण जिससे is used to maintain कम temperatures, typically between 13 °C and −196 °C.
These low temperatures are प्रयुक्त to collect liquids बाद distillation, to हटाएँ solvents using a रोटरी evaporator, or to perform a chemical reaction below रूम temperature ( see : kinetic control ).
Cooling baths हैं generally एक of दो types : ( a ) a cold fluid ( विशेषकर liquid nitrogen, जल, or even एयर ) — but सबसे commonly the term refers to ( b ) a मिश्रण of 3 components : ( 1 ) a cooling एजेंट ( such as dry बर्फ or water बर्फ ) ; ( b ) a द्रव 'कैरीr ' ( ऐसे as liquid जल, ethylene ग्लाइकोल, acetone, इत्यादि. ), जिससे transfers ऊष्मा between the bath and the पोत ; ; और ( c ) an additive to गुमसुम the melting-point of the solid/liquid system.
( A परिचित उदाहरण of इस is the उपयोग of an ice/rock-salt मिश्रण to फ्रीज बर्फ cream.
the phase-change of ice into द्रव water requires energy, 'pulling ' ऊष्मा from the प्रणाली.
adding नमक lowers the temp at which इस happens, अर्थ अधिक energy has to be अवशोषित from the environment in order to melt the ice.
This effectively makes the बर्फ 'colder ' — it जरूर 'pull ' more ऊष्मा from इसके पर्यावरण to become द्रव. )
खाने विकार are conditions defined by abnormal eating habits कि may involve either insufficient or excessive खाना intake to the detriment of an individual 's physical और mental स्वास्थ्य.
bulimia नर्वोज़ा और anorexia नर्वोज़ा are the most common विशिष्ट फ़ॉर्म in the United किंगडम.
अन्य प्रकार of खाने विकार include binge खाने विकार and खाने विकार नहीं वरना निर्दिष्ट.
bulimia nervosa is a विकार characterized by binge eating and purging.
purging can शामिल self-induce उल्टी, over-exercising, and the उपयोग of diuretics, enemas, and laxatives.
Anorexia nervosa is characterized by extreme खाना restriction to the point of self-starvation और excessive weight loss.
हालांकि primarily thought of as affecting महिलाओं ( an estimated 5–10 लाख being affected in the u.K. ), eating disorders affect males as खूब.
An अनुमानित 10 – 15 % of people साथ eating disorders हैं males ( Gorgan, 1999 ).
( an अनुमानित 1 लाख U.K. males being affected ).
Although eating विकार are increasing all over the world among दोनो मेन and महिलाओं, there is evidence to suggest कि it is महिलाओं in the Western world who हैं at the उच्चतम risk of developing उन्हें और the उपाधि of westernization increases the risk.
Nearly half of सब अमेरिकी personally know someone with an eating विकार.
the कौशल to comprehend the central प्रक्रियाओं of appetite has increased tremendously चूंकि leptin थी discovered, और the कौशल to observe the कृत्यों of the brain as well.
interactions between motivational, homeostatic and self-regulatory control प्रक्रियाओं हैं शामिल in eating behaviour, जिससे is a कुंजी घटक in खाने विकार.
The precise कारण of eating disorders is नहीं entirely समझा, but there is प्रमाण that it may be linked to अन्य medical conditions और situations.
Cultural idealization of thinness और youthfulness have contributed to eating disorders affecting विविध populations.
एक study दिखाया कि लड़कियों साथ ADHD have a वृहद मौका of getting an eating disorder than those नहीं प्रभावित by ADHD.
Another पढ़ाई suggested that women with ptsd, especially due to sexually related trauma, हैं more likely to develop एनोरेक्सिया नर्वोज़ा.
One पढ़ाई showed that फोस्टर लड़कियों हैं more संभावित to develop bulimia नर्वोज़ा.
कुछ सोचो कि peer दबाव और idealized body-types देखी in the media are भी a significant factor.
Some research show that लिये certain लोगों वहीँ are genetic reasons why वे may be prone to developing an खाने disorder.
Recent अध्ययन have found प्रमाण a सहसंबंध between patients with bulimia nervosa और substance use विकार.
In addition, anxiety disorders and व्यक्तित्व disorders हैं common आवृत्ति साथ clients of eating disorders.
While उचित treatment can be highly effective for many suffering from specific types of खाने disorders, the consequences of खाने विकार can be कठोर, including मौत ( whether from सीधा medical effects of disturbed खाने आदतें or इससे comorbid conditions ऐसे as suicidal thinking ).
Slavery in the संयुक्त राज्य existed इससे the early years of the colonial काल ; it थी firmly established by the समय the United States sought independence इससे ग्रेट Britain in 1776.
however, by 1804, all राज्य north of the Mason and डिक्सन Line था either abolished गुलामी outright or passed laws for the gradual abolition of गुलामी.
In 1787 Congress निषिद्ध गुलामी in the उत्तरपश्चिम Territory.
लकिन गुलामी gained new life in the South with the cotton उद्योग बाद 1800, और expanded into the Southwest.
The nation was polarized into slave और free राज्य along the mason-dixon लकीर, जिससे अलग पेन्सिलवेनिया and Maryland.
the United States और Great Britain दोनो निषिद्ध the अंतरराष्ट्रीय slave trade in 1808, लकिन the domestic व्यापार, साथ sales to the गहन दक्षिण, विस्तारित dramatically, और अनेक captives were shipped by the coastwise स्लेव trade.
Before the 1840s, the South was vigorously defending slavery और इसके expansion into the territories.
in the उत्तर कुछ abolitionists denounced it as गुनाहगार, और numerous anti-slavery forces rejected it as detrimental to the rights of free मेन.
After विफल compromises and अब्राहम Lincoln 's election, in 1861 ग्यारह स्लेव states broke दूर to form the Confederate States of अमेरिका, अग्रणी to the American सिविल युद्ध.
The federal सरकारी in 1862 बना abolition of गुलामी a war लक्ष्य.
in January 1863 President Lincoln freed स्लेव in the confederacy through the emancipation उदघोषणा.
After the युद्ध, the Thirteenth Amendment, effective December 1865, abolished गुलामी throughout the संपूर्ण United राज्य, including the किनारा राज्य और the Indian territories.
इससे the 16th to the 19th सदियां, an estimated 12 million africans यहूद shipped as स्लेव to the americas.
See Slavery in the americas.
The ग्रेट majority went to the sugar बागानों of the वेस्ट Indies or ब्राज़ील, जहाँ मृत्यु थी ऊँची.
परिचय 645,000 यहूद brought to what is अभी the United राज्य.
By the 1860 United राज्य Census, the slave जनसांख्यिकी in the अमरीकी South था grown to चार लाख.
Of all 1,515,605 families in the 15 स्लेव states, nearly 400,000 आयोजित slaves ( roughly एक in चार ), amounting to 8 % of all American परिवारों.
जबकि कुछ स्लेव worked as house बन्दों और शहरी artisans, the great majority worked on बागानों or large farms, cultivating lucrative नकदी फसलों, such as rice, तम्बाकू, sugar and, after 1800, chiefly cotton.
by 1860 सबसे स्लेव were आयोजित in the Deep South, where वे served in work-gangs ; two-thirds worked in कपास.
In छोटी operations, they worked with their स्वामी.
In large बागानों वे were directed by white paid overseers.
अंतर्गत the system कि became chattel गुलामी ( स्वामित्व of a human being, और of his/her descendants ), a racial element थी fundamental : स्लेव were blacks of अफ़्रीकी descent and स्वामित्व, लगभग universally, by whites of European descent.
In the 17th century, Virginia, followed by other southern colonies, enacted law that children of स्लेव mothers यहूद born into गुलामी.
स्लेव could लाभ freedom only by कार्यशील दूर ( जिससे was difficult and illegal to do ), or by manumission by owners, जिससे थी regulated by states, और became increasingly मुश्किल or निषिद्ध.
In the earliest era of chattel गुलामी, the colonies भी organized work by a system of bonded मजदूर ज्ञात as indentured servitude.
इस typically lasted for अनेक सालो for दोनो poor Europeans और africans alike, to pay बंद the लागत of हस्तांतरण to the colonies.
वे contracted for such इंतजाम क्युकी of poor economies in their घर countries.
between 1680 और 1700, as कम europeans migrated to the colonies, planters began to आयात अधिक africans as slaves.
recognizing the महत्व of slavery, the हाउस of burgesses in वर्जिनिया enacted a new slave code in 1705 ; it संयुक्त a किस्में of विधान और added नई provisions enforcing white supremacy in the विधि.
Schematic cross section of part of पत्ता, xylem shown as रेड circles at figure 8.
जाइलम is one of the two प्रकार of transport tissue in vascular पौधे ( phloem is the other ).
the word जाइलम is derived from the Greek शब्द ξύλον ( xylon ), meaning `` लकडी '' ; the best-known xylem tissue is लकडी, हालांकि it is found throughout the संयंत्र.
इसके basic function is to हस्तांतरण जल, but it also transports कुछ nutrients through the संयंत्र.
This clock प्रतिनिधित्व shows कुछ of the major इकाई of geological समय and definitive कार्यक्रम of Earth history.
the Hadean इओन represents the समय पहले fossil record of जीवन on Earth ; इसके upper boundary is now regarded as 4.0 ga ( billion years ago ).
Other subdivisions प्रतिबिंबित the evolution of जीवन ; the archean and Proterozoic are दोनो eons, the Palaeozoic, mesozoic और cenozoic are eras of the phanerozoic eon.
The two लाख year Quaternary काल, the time of recognizable humans, is too छोटी to be visible at इस scale.
the भूगर्भिक time scale is a प्रणाली of chronological मापन that relates stratigraphy to time, और is used by geologists, paleontologists, and other earth वैज्ञानिकों to describe the समय and relationships between कार्यक्रम that have occurred throughout Earth 's history.
the तालिका of भूगर्भिक time spans presented यहाँ agrees with the dates and नामकरण set forth by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Commission on स्तरिकी standard color कोड of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Commission on स्तरिकी.
प्रमाण from radiometric dating indicates that the धरती is about 4.54 अरब सालो बूढ़ा.
The geology or deep समय of धरती 's पास्ट रै been organized into विभिन्न इकाई according to events which took प्लेस in प्रत्येक period.
अलग spans of time on the gts हैं प्रायः सीमांकित by परिवर्तन in the संयोजन of strata जिससे correspond to उन्हें, indicating प्रमुख geological or paleontological कार्यक्रम, ऐसे as द्रव्यमान extinctions.
लिये उदाहरण, the boundary between the cretaceous काल and the Paleogene काल is defined by the cretaceous–paleogene extinction event, जिससे चिह्नित the निधन of the dinosaurs और अनेक अन्य समूह of life.
Older time spans which predate the विश्वसनीय fossil रिकार्ड ( before the Proterozoic इओन ) हैं defined by absolute आयु.
the TI-82 is a graphing परिपथ made by Texas यंत्र.
The TI-82 was designed in 1993 as a stripped down, अधिक उपयोक्ता friendly संस्करण of the TI-85, and as a बदलना लिये the TI-81.
It was the सीधा predecessor of the TI-83.
it shares साथ the TI-85 a 6 mhz Zilog z80 microprocessor.
जैसे the TI-81, the TI-82 सुविधाएँ a 96x64 pixel display, और the core विशेषता नियत of the ti-81 with अनेक new features.
The डाल of वर्ण of The किंग of Fighters xi.
the King of सेनानी fighting game श्रेणी, produced by snk playmore, includes a wide cast of वर्ण, कुछ of which are taken from अन्य snk games.
the story takes प्लेस in a fictional ब्रह्मांड in जिससे an सालाना series of 3-on-3 or 4-on-4 लड़ tournaments are held.
the first game in the series introduces the initial प्रमुख अक्षर of the श्रेणी, Kyo Kusanagi, a यंग जापानी सेनानी who is the वारिस to a शक्तिशाली group of martial artists having pyrokinetic abilities.
kyo fights विरूद्ध the kusanagi clan 's enemies, उसके प्रतिद्वंद्वी Iori yagami, और the परमेश्वर orochi and its human अनुसरणकर्ता, among अन्य.
The पहला four games in the series revolve परिचय these fights, while The King of सेनानी '99 introduces a new story चाप, revolving around K ', a यंग man जो seeks to destroy the रहस्यमय NESTS organization because वे kidnapped him at an जल्दी आयु and stripped उसे of उसके past memories, so that they could force him to be a सेनानी अंतर्गत उनके कंट्रोल.
in the किंग of सेनानी 2003, a new character named Ash Crimson enters the टूर्नामेंट, to steal the शक्तियां of the clans जो sealed the Orochi in the पास्ट लिये an unknown कारण.
A नई समूह of antagonists, known as those From the पास्ट, भी appears in the श्रेणी ; they want to obtain orochi 's शक्ति for the purpose of giving it to उनके अनजान निपुण.
The plot और the वर्ण came from the Yamata no orochi legend.
वहीँ are also अनेक characters in the games कि are parodies or homages to several लोकप्रिय anime, manga, और films.
merchandise आधारित on the characters has also महरूम released, सहित कार्रवाई आंकड़े और keychains.
The वर्ण have garnered praise इससे several video game publications for the quality of उनके डिजाइन और movesets.
टिप्पणी focused on the lack of improvements in some of the वर्ण, but added कि the roster is greatly diverse.
Whale युद्धों is a weekly American documentary-style reality television series that premiered on नवम्बर 7, 2008 on the एनिमल Planet केबल channel.
the कार्यक्रम follows पॉल Watson, संस्थापक of the समुद्र Shepherd Conservation Society, as he और the क्रू aboard उनके various vessels harass Japanese whalers बंद the coast of अंटार्कटिक.
On January 5, 2013, Animal Planet नवीनीकृत the series for a छठे season.
The harpy त्रिभुज ( Harpia harpyja ) is a neotropical प्रजाति of eagle.
It is sometimes known as the American harpy Eagle to distinguish it इससे the पापुआई Eagle which is sometimes known as the नई गिनी Harpy त्रिभुज or Papuan Harpy त्रिभुज.
it is the largest and most शक्तिशाली रैप्टर found in the americas, और among the largest extant प्रजाति of ईगल्स in the world.
it प्रायः inhabits तीव्र lowland rainforests in the upper ( emergent ) canopy परत.
Destruction of इसके natural habitat has seen it vanish from many parts of its पूर्व दायरा, and it is nearly extirpated in सेंट्रल America.
biological वर्गीकरण, or वैज्ञानिक वर्गीकरण in जीवविज्ञान, is a method of scientific taxonomy प्रयुक्त to group और categorize organisms into समूह such as genus or species.
ये समूह are ज्ञात as taxa ( singular : टैक्सोन ).
आधुनिक biological classification रै इसके रूट in the कार्य of Carolus Linnaeus, who grouped प्रजाति according to shared शारीरिक characteristics.
ये groupings have since महरूम revised to improve consistency with the Darwinian principle of common descent.
With the introduction of the cladistic विधि in the late 20th सदी, phylogenetic taxonomy in जिससे जीवों are grouped आधारित purely on inferred evolutionary relatedness, ignoring morphological समानता, रै become common in कुछ क्षेत्रों of biology.
Molecular phylogenetics, which uses DNA sequences as data, has भी चलित अनेक recent revisions और is likely to continue doing so.
Biological classification belongs to the science of biological systematics.
Lennon 's हस्ताक्षर
John Winston Ono लेनन, ( born John विंस्टन लेनन ; 9 October 1940 – 8 December 1980 ) was an English musician, singer and songwriter जो rose to worldwide कीर्ति as a संस्थापक सदस्य of the बीटल्स, एक of the सबसे commercially successful and critically acclaimed अधिनियमों in the history of popular म्यूज़िक.
साथ Paul McCartney, he formed एक of the most celebrated songwriting partnerships of the 20th सदी.
Born and उठाया in लिवरपूल, as a teenager लेनन became शामिल in the skiffle craze ; उसके पहला band, the Quarrymen, evolved into the Beatles in 1960.
as the समूह disintegrated towards the end of the decade, Lennon embarked on a सोलो करियर that produced the critically acclaimed एल्बम जॉन lennon/plastic ओनो बैंड और imagine, and iconic songs ऐसे as `` दे सलाम a Chance `` और `` imagine ``.
After उसके विवाह to Yoko Ono in 1969, he changed his नाम to जॉन ओनो लेनन.
Lennon disengaged himself इससे the म्यूज़िक business in 1975 to devote समय to raising उसके infant son Sean, but re-emerged with Ono in 1980 साथ the नई album दोगुना काल्पनिक.
He थी murdered three weeks बाद इसके रिलीज.
लेनन revealed a rebellious nature and acerbic wit in उसके music, लिखने, drawings, on फिल्मी और in interviews.
Controversial through उसके political and सलाम सक्रियता, he स्थानांतरित to New यॉर्क नगर in 1971, where his आलोचना of the Vietnam War resulted in a lengthy attempt by Richard Nixon 's प्रशासन to निर्वासन उसे, जबकि कुछ of उसके songs यहूद अपनाया as anthems by the anti-war movement.
as of 2012, Lennon 's सोलो album बिक्री in the United States exceed 14 लाख units, and as लेखक, co-writer or performer, he is जिम्मेदार लिये 25 number-one singles on the US hot 100 chart.
In 2002, a BBC poll on the 100 Greatest Britons voted उसे eighth, and in 2008, Rolling Stone क्रमित उसे the fifth-greatest सिंगर of all time.
he थी मरणोपरांत inducted into the Songwriters हॉल of कीर्ति in 1987 और into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1994.
Statue of rip वैन Winkle in irvington, New यॉर्क, नहीं far from `` Sunnyside ``, the home of वॉशिंगटन इरविंग
`` rip Van Winkle '' is a short स्टोरी by American author Washington Irving published in 1819, as खूब as the name of the story 's fictional protagonist.
लिखा जबकि इरविंग थी living in Birmingham, England, it was part of a collection entitled the स्केच किताब of geoffrey Crayon.
Although the स्टोरी is set in नई York 's catskill kyu, Irving बाद admitted, `` जब I लिखा the story, I था never महरूम on the Catskills. ''
throughout the fifty-five साल इतिहास of the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, many significant रिकॉर्ड have महरूम नियत.
इस पेज only includes the प्रतिस्पर्धी awards won by विभिन्न कलाकारों.
This does not include the various special awards कि are presented by the नेशनल Academy of रिकॉर्डिंग कला और Sciences such as Lifetime Achievement पुरस्कार, trustees पुरस्कार, तकनीकी पुरस्कार or लेजेंड Awards.
the पेज however does शामिल other non-performance सम्बन्धित Grammys ( ज्ञात as the Craft & उत्पादन फ़ील्ड ) कि may have महरूम प्रस्तुत to the कलाकार ( s ).
pee-wee herman is a कॉमिक fictional अक्षर निर्मित and portrayed by अमरीकी हास्य पॉल Reubens.
He is best known for उसके दो टेलीविज़न series and फिल्मी श्रेणी दौरान the 1980s.
the childlike Pee-wee Herman character developed as a stage अधिनियम कि quickly led to an HBO खास in 1981.
As the स्टेज प्रदर्शन gained further popularity, reubens took the character to motion picture साथ Pee-wee 's Big Adventure in 1985, toning bas the वयस्क innuendo for the अपील of children.
इस paved the रास्ता for Pee-wee 's Playhouse, an Emmy Award winning children 's श्रेणी कि भागा on सीबीएस इससे 1986-1991.
Another film, Big Top Pee-wee, was released in 1988.
due to negative मीडिया attention following a कांड in 1991, reubens decided to shelve his alter ego during the 1990s, और तब gradually resurrected it during the following decade.
It was at कि समय कि Reubens addressed योजनाएँ to write a नई Pee-wee film, pee-wee 's Playhouse : the फिल्म.
In June 2007, reubens appeared as Pee-wee herman लिये the first time since 1991 at Spike TV 's Guys ' चुनाव Awards.
कि '70s दिखाएँ is an American टेलीविज़न काल sitcom कि centers on the जीवनदान of a समूह of teenage friends living in the fictional suburban कस्बा of Point Place, Wisconsin, इससे May 17, 1976, to December 31, 1979.
it debuted on the Fox television संजाल, पहला airing on August 23, 1998, running लिये eight लगातार seasons, और concluding with the 200th episode on May 18, 2006.
the प्रमुख teenage cast सदस्यों यहूद Topher अनुग्रह, mila Kunis, Ashton कूचर, Danny masterson, लौरा prepon, और Wilmer valderrama.
The main adult डाल सदस्यों यहूद Debra Jo Rupp, kurtwood Smith, Don Stark और, during the first three seasons, तान्या रॉबर्ट्स.
कान्सास ( ) is a U.S. state located in the midwestern संयुक्त राज्य.
It is नामित after the कान्सास नदी जिससे बहती through it, जिससे in फेरे was named after the कंस Native American tribe, जिससे inhabited the क्षेत्रफल.
The जनजाति 's name ( natively kką : ze ) is often said to औसत `` people of the हवा '' or `` people of the south wind, '' हालांकि इस was संभवतः नहीं the term 's original meaning.
Residents of Kansas are called `` kansans. ''
लिये thousands of years कया is अभी कान्सास was घर to numerous और diverse Native American जनजातियों.
Tribes in the Eastern भाग of the state generally lived in villages साथ the river घाटियों.
जनजातियों in the Western part of the राज्य यहूद सेमi- nomadic and hunted large herds of बाइसन.
कान्सास थी first settled by European Americans in the 1830s, but the pace of उपनिवेश accelerated in the 1850s, in the midst of political wars over the गुलामी issue.
When officially opened to उपनिवेश by the u.S. सरकारी in 1854, abolitionist free-staters from नई England and pro-slavery settlers from neighboring Missouri rushed to the territory to determine if Kansas होता become a फ़्री state or a स्लेव राज्य.
Thus, the area थी a hotbed of हिंसा and अराजकता in its early days as these forces collided, and थी known as Bleeding कान्सास.
the abolitionists आखिरकार prevailed और on जनवरी 29, 1861, Kansas डाला the Union as a फ़्री राज्य.
After the सिविल War, the population of Kansas grew rapidly, जब लहरें of immigrants turned the प्रेयरी into farmland.
आज, Kansas is एक of the सबसे उत्पादक agricultural states, producing high yields of wheat, ज्वार और sunflowers.
Kansas is the 15th most extensive and the 33rd most populous of the 50 संयुक्त राज्य.
मनोविज्ञान is an अकादमिक और applied अनुशासन that involves the वैज्ञानिक पढ़ाई of mental functions and behaviors.
Psychology रै the immediate goal of समझना individuals और समूह by both establishing general सिद्धान्त और researching विशिष्ट मामले, and by अनेक accounts it ultimately aims to benefit समाज.
In this फ़ील्ड, a professional or शोधकर्ता is called a मनोवैज्ञानिक और can be classified as a सोशल, behavioral, or संज्ञानात्मक scientist.
Psychologists attempt to understand the role of दिमागी functions in व्यक्तिगत और social behavior, जबकि also exploring the physiological और neurobiological प्रक्रियाओं that underlie निश्चित cognitive functions और व्यवहार.
Psychologists explore अवधारणाओं ऐसे as perception, संज्ञान, ध्यान, जज्बात, phenomenology, motivation, brain functioning, व्यक्तित्व, बर्ताव, और interpersonal relationships.
psychologists of विविध stripes also consider the unconscious दिमाग.
psychologists employ अनुभवजन्य विधि to infer causal और correlational relationships between psychosocial परिवर्तनीय.
In addition, or in opposition, to employing अनुभवजन्य and deductive methods, some—especially clinical and counseling psychologists—at टाइम्स rely upon सांकेतिक निर्वचन और अन्य आगमनात्मक techniques.
Psychology रै महरूम described as a `` hub science '', साथ मनोवैज्ञानिक findings linking to शोध and perspectives इससे the social sciences, प्राकृतिक sciences, medicine, और the humanities, such as दर्शनशास्त्र.
जबकि मनोवैज्ञानिक knowledge is often लागू to the मूल्यांकन and उपचार of दिमागी health समस्याएं, it is भी directed towards understanding और solving समस्याएं in अनेक अलग spheres of इंसान activity.
The majority of psychologists are involved in some दयालु of therapeutic भूमिका, practicing in clinical, counseling, or स्कूल जमावट.
अनेक do वैज्ञानिक research on a wide range of topics related to mental प्रक्रियाओं और behavior, और typically कार्य in university psychology departments or teach in अन्य अकादमिक settings ( e.g., medical स्कूलों, अस्पताल ).
Some हैं employed in औद्योगिक and organizational settings, or in अन्य क्षेत्रों ऐसे as human development and वृद्धावस्था, खेल, health, और the मीडिया, as well as in forensic छानबीन और other aspects of law.
थामस Jefferson ( अप्रैल 13, 1743 ( अप्रैल 2, 1743 o.S. ) – जुलाई 4, 1826 ) थी an American founding पिता, the principal author of the घोषणा of Independence ( 1776 ) and the तीसरा President of the United राज्य ( 1801–1809 ).
At the beginning of the अमरीकी क्रान्ति, he परोसा in the Continental Congress, representing वर्जिनिया और तब परोसा as a wartime Governor of Virginia ( 1779–1781 ).
Just बाद the युद्ध ended, from mid-1784 जेफरसन परोसा as a राजनयिक, stationed in पेरिस.
In may 1785, he became the United States Minister to फ़्रांस.
Jefferson was the first संयुक्त राज्य Secretary of State ( 1790–1793 ) सेवारत अंतर्गत अध्यक्ष George Washington.
With उसके close friend जेम्स मैडिसन he organized the democratic-republican Party, and subsequently resigned from Washington 's कैबिनेट.
निर्वाचित Vice अध्यक्ष in 1796, when he came in दूसरी to जॉन एडम्स of the federalists, जेफरसन opposed एडम्स and साथ मैडिसन secretly wrote the केंटकी और Virginia Resolutions, जिससे attempted to nullify the Alien और Sedition अधिनियमों.
निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष in कया जेफरसन called the क्रान्ति of 1800, he oversaw the purchase of the vast Louisiana territory from फ़्रांस ( 1803 ), और भेजा the लुईस and क्लार्क Expedition ( 1804–1806 ) to explore the नई वेस्ट.
His दूसरी पद was beset साथ troubles at घर, such as the विफल देशद्रोह trial of his पूर्व Vice President आरोन Burr.
With escalating trouble with Britain जो थी challenging अमरीकी neutrality और threatening shipping at समुद्र, he आजमाया economic warfare साथ his embargo laws which only damaged American trade.
In 1803, अध्यक्ष Jefferson initiated a प्रक्रम of Indian tribal हटाना और relocation to the Louisiana territory वेस्ट of the Mississippi नदी, in order to open lands for eventual अमरीकी settlers.
a नेता in the Enlightenment, Jefferson थी a polymath जो spoke पाँच languages fluently और was deeply interested in science, आविष्कार, architecture, religion और philosophy, interests कि led him to the founding of the University of Virginia बाद उसके presidency.
he designed his own विशाल mansion on a 5,000 एकड़ वृक्षारोपण निकट Charlottesville, वर्जिनिया, जिससे he नामित Monticello.
जबकि not a notable orator, Jefferson थी a skilled writer and corresponded with many influential लोगों in America और यूरोपीय throughout his वयस्क जीवन.
हालांकि जेफरसन स्वामित्व अनेक स्लेव, he opposed the संस्था सब उसके life और consequently treated और took परवाह of them बहुत खूब और अपेक्षित them to कार्य no more than free किसानो.
चूंकि 1802 इतिहासकारों और अन्य have महरूम विभाजित over the controversy of whether Jefferson was the father of one or more children belonging to Sally hemings, a slave at Monticello. ''
इतिहासकारों हैं also in disagreement with कैसा much Jefferson थी वचनबद्ध to the anti-slavery cause.
In 1807, अध्यक्ष Jefferson signed into law a विधेयक कि बैन the importation of स्लेव into the संयुक्त States.
बाद मार्था जेफरसन, उसके बीवी of ग्यारह सालो, died in 1782, जेफरसन remained a विधुर for the बाकी of उसके जीवन ; their विवाह produced six children, of whom दो survived to adulthood.
Though Jefferson रै been criticized by अनेक आधुनिक day विद्वानों over the issue of slavery, he remains rated as एक of the greatest U.S. राष्ट्रपतियों.
`` Sun नगर '' is a 1985 विरोध सोंग written by Steven वैन Zandt, produced by वैन zandt और आर्थर Baker and recorded by कलाकारों संयुक्त Against रंगभेद to convey विपक्ष to the South African policy of रंगभेद.
The primary अर्थात् of that विपक्ष is to घोषित कि सब the कलाकारों शामिल होता इंकार कोई और सब offers to perform at सूर्य City, a रिज़ॉर्ट which was located in bantustan of Bophuthatswana, एक of a क्रमांक of internationally अपरिचित supposed `` स्वतंत्र '' states निर्मित by the South African सरकारी to forcibly relocate its black जनसांख्यिकी.
इस पेज is a सूची of characters in the पुलिस अकादमी film and television श्रेणी.
विधेयक रसेल won 11 championships साथ the बोस्टन सेल्टिक्स.
This is a list of एनबीए खिलाड़ी साथ most championships won as a player.
The National बास्केट Association ( NBA ) is a प्रमुख professional basketball लीग in North अमेरिका.
It थी founded in 1946 as the बास्केट Association of अमेरिका ( BAA ).
the लीग अपनाया its वर्तमान नाम at the start of the when it मिलाया with the नेशनल Basketball लीग ( NBL ).
the NBA Finals is the championship श्रेणी लिये the एनबीए और the conclusion of the खेल 's postseason.
The winning team of the श्रेणी receives the Larry o'brien Championship ट्रॉफी.
खिलाड़ी from the जीतना team प्रायः receive चैंपियनशिप rings इससे the team honoring उनके contribution.
however, in some rare occasion, the टीमों opted to दिया other commemorative items, such as wrist घड़ियाँ, instead of rings.
The number of championships won by NBA सुपरस्टार is प्रायः used as a मापन of their greatness.
Boston सेल्टिक्स center Bill रसेल holds the record for the most एनबीए championships won साथ 11 शीर्षक दौरान उसके 13-year playing करियर.
He won his first चैंपियनशिप साथ the Boston Celtics in उसके rookie साल.
afterwards, he गई on to win 10 championships in the next 12 सालो, सहित आठ लगातार championships इससे 1959 to 1966.
He won the पिछला two championships in 1968 and 1969 as player-coach.
Russell 's teammate, Sam Jones, won 10 championships इससे 1959 to 1969, the दूसरी सबसे in एनबीए इतिहास.
Four सेल्टिक्स खिलाड़ी, tom Heinsohn, K. C. Jones, Satch Sanders and John havlicek, जीती आठ championships प्रत्येक.
दो other सेल्टिक्स, Jim loscutoff and Frank Ramsey, won seven championships प्रत्येक.
Four players, bob cousy, kareem abdul-jabbar, माइकल जॉर्डन और Scottie Pippen, जीती छह championships प्रत्येक.
Jordan और Pippen are members of the शिकागो bulls team who जीती three लगातार championships twice in the 1990s.
Robert Horry और John Salley are the तभी खिलाड़ी to have जीती the championships with three अलग टीमों.
horry won seven championships साथ the Houston rockets, the लॉस Angeles Lakers and the सैन Antonio स्पर्स, while Salley won four championships साथ the डेट्रॉयट पिस्टन्स, the bulls और the Lakers.
फ़्रैंक शाऊल and स्टीव Kerr हैं the तभी players to win two championships with दो अलग टीमों in consecutive seasons.
Saul won consecutive championships with the Rochester रॉयल्स and the Minneapolis Lakers in the 1950s, while Kerr won लगातार championships साथ the bulls and the Spurs in the 1990s,
सटीकता indicates proximity of मापन results to the सच्चा value, परिशुद्धता to the repeatability, or reproducibility of the मापन
In the fields of science, अभियान्त्रिकी, industry, और statistics, the सटीकता of a measurement system is the उपाधि of निकटता of माप of a quantity to that मात्रा 's वास्तविक ( true ) मान.
The precision of a measurement प्रणाली, also पुकारा reproducibility or repeatability, is the उपाधि to which repeated measurements under अपरिवर्तित शर्तें show the वही परिणाम.
Although the two words reproducibility and repeatability can be synonymous in colloquial use, वे are deliberately contrasted in the context of the वैज्ञानिक method.
A मापन प्रणाली can be सटीक लकिन not precise, precise but not सटीक, neither, or both.
लिये example, if an प्रयोग contains a व्यवस्थित गलती, तब increasing the sample size generally increases परिशुद्धता but does not improve accuracy.
The परिणाम would be a consistent yet inaccurate string of परिणाम इससे the flawed experiment.
eliminating the व्यवस्थित गलती improves सटीकता लकिन does नहीं बदलें परिशुद्धता.
a measurement system is designated valid if it is दोनो accurate and precise.
सम्बन्धित terms include bias ( non- यादृच्छिक or निर्देशित प्रभाव caused by a फ़ैक्टर or कारकों unrelated to the स्वतंत्र परिवर्तनीय ) और गलती ( यादृच्छिक variability ).
The शब्दावली is भी applied to अप्रत्यक्ष measurements—that is, मान प्राप्त by a कम्प्यूटेशनल procedure from observed data.
in जोड to सटीकता and precision, माप may भी have a मापन रेज़ोल्यूशन, जिससे is the smallest change in the underlying शारीरिक मात्रा that produces a response in the मापन.
In the case of पूरा reproducibility, such as when rounding a क्रमांक to a representable फ्लोटिंग point क्रमांक, the शब्द precision has a meaning नहीं सम्बन्धित to reproducibility.
लिये example, in the IEEE 754-2008 मानक it means the number of बिट्स in the significand, so it is प्रयुक्त as a measure for the relative सटीकता साथ which an arbitrary number can be represented.
Fuck in इसके शाब्दिक अर्थ refers to the act of यौन intercourse.
It is an English शब्द that is प्रायः used as a profanity, either to denote disdain or as an intensifier.
the उत्पत्ति of the word is obscure.
it is usually माना to be पहला attested to around 1475, लकिन it may be considerably older.
In modern उपयोग, बकवास और its derivatives ( such as कमीने and fucking ) can be प्रयुक्त in the स्थिति of a संज्ञा, a क्रिया, an adjective or an adverb.
वहीँ हैं many आम phrases जिससे make use of the शब्द, as खूब as a क्रमांक of compounds incorporating it, such as motherfucker.
एनिमेटेड, color-coded map प्रर्दशित the various continents और regions.
Depending on the convention and model, कुछ continents may be संचित or subdivided : लिये example, यूरेशिया is सबसे प्रायः subdivided into Europe और Asia ( रेड शेड्स ), जबकि उत्तर and दक्षिण America हैं sometimes पहचाना as one अमरीकी महाद्वीप ( green shades ).
A महाद्वीप is एक of अनेक बहुत large landmasses on धरती.
वे are generally पहचाना by convention rather than any सख्त मापदण्ड, साथ up to seven regions commonly regarded as continents—they are ( from largest in आकार to smallest ) : एशिया, Africa, North अमेरिका, दक्षिण अमेरिका, Antarctica, यूरोपीय, and ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
In भूविज्ञान, continents हैं वर्णित by means of tectonic plates.
थाली tectonics is the process और study of the गति, collision और प्रभाग of महाद्वीपों, पहले known as continental drift.
Biker Boyz is a 2003 फिल्मी परिचय a group of भूमिगत motorcycle खीचें racers.
it stars laurence फिशबर्न, Djimon Hounsou, डेरेक Luke, Meagan Good, और Larenz टेट और is written and निर्देशित by reggie चट्टान Bythewood.
It भी सुविधाएँ Lisa Bonet, ऑरलैंडो जोन्स, बच्चा चट्टान and वैनेसा घंटी calloway.
लिये the Steel पैंथर सोंग, देखिए Feel the Steel.
जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी is a वैवाहिक property शासन that originated in सिविल law jurisdictions और is अभी भी मिला in कुछ common विधि jurisdictions.
The राज्य of the संयुक्त States कि recognize जातियाँ property हैं primarily in the वेस्ट ; it थी inherited from मैक्सिको 's ganancial community system, which itself थी inherited from स्पेनी विधि ( a Roman -derived civil विधि system ) और ultimately इससे the Visigoths.
While under स्पेनी rule louisiana अपनाया the ganancial जातियाँ प्रणाली of acquests और gains, जिससे replaced the traditional French जातियाँ of movables और acquests in इसके सिविल विधि प्रणाली.
Map of the संयुक्त States with जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी राज्य highlighted in red.
in addition to the highlighted states, Alaska is a separate property state that permits couples to opt into a जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी arrangement.
In a community property क्षेत्राधिकार, सबसे प्रॉपर्टी acquired during the marriage ( except लिये gifts or inheritances ) —the community, or communio bonorum—is स्वामित्व jointly by both spouses और is विभाजित upon तलाक, annulment or मौत.
Joint ownership is automatically presumed by law in the अनुपस्थिति of specific evidence कि होता point to a contrary निष्कर्ष for a particular piece of प्रॉपर्टी.
Division of जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी may take place by मद, by splitting सब वस्तुएं or by मान.
in some jurisdictions, such as कैलिफ़ोर्निया, a 50/50 प्रभाग of जातियाँ property is strictly mandated by statute, meaning कि the फ़ोकस then शिफ्ट to whether particular वस्तुएं are to be वर्गीकृत as community or separate property.
in अन्य jurisdictions, ऐसे as Texas, a तलाक court may डिक्री an `` equitable वितरण `` of community प्रॉपर्टी, which may result in an गैरबराबरी प्रभाग of such.
In non-community प्रॉपर्टी states property may be विभाजित by निष्पक्ष वितरण.
Generally speaking, the प्रॉपर्टी that each partner brings into the marriage or receives by gift, bequest or devise during विवाह is called पृथक प्रॉपर्टी ( i.e., नहीं community property ).
See division of प्रॉपर्टी.
प्रभाग of जातियाँ debts may नहीं be the same as division of community प्रॉपर्टी.
लिये उदाहरण, in California, community प्रॉपर्टी is required to be divided `` equally '' while जातियाँ debt is जरूरी to be विभाजित `` equitably ''.
प्रॉपर्टी that is स्वामित्व by one जीवनसाथी पहले the marriage is the separate property of कि spouse, unless the प्रॉपर्टी is `` transmuted '' into community property.
the नियम लिये this vary इससे jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
the ड्यूक and duchess of Cambridge waving to the भीड at the मॉल shortly बाद the विवाह.
The विवाह of प्रिंस विलियम, Duke of Cambridge, and कैथरीन Middleton took place on 29 अप्रैल 2011 at Westminster Abbey in लंदन.
the दूल्हे, प्रिंस William, Duke of Cambridge, is the eldest son of Charles, Prince of वेल्स, and is second in the line of succession to the अंग्रेजों Throne and the तख्तों of fifteen अन्य Commonwealth realms.
the bride, Catherine `` केट '' मिडलटन is the ज्येष्ठ of three children of Michael और Carole मिडलटन of bucklebury, बर्कशायर.
the Dean of Westminster, जॉन Hall, presided at the service ; the Archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan विलियम्स, conducted the marriage ; Richard chartres, the Bishop of London, preached the उपदेश ; और a पढना was दिए by the बहू 's brother, जेम्स.
William 's बेहतरीन man थी his brother, Prince हैरी, जबकि the बहू 's सिस्टर, पिप्पा, थी नौकरानी of honour.
the रस्म थी attended by the bride 's and दूल्हे 's families, as well as many विदेशी रॉयल्स, राजनयिकों, और the युगल 's चुनी personal guests.
बाद the रस्म, the युगल बना the traditional रूप on the बालकनी of बकिंघम राजमहल.
as Prince William was not the वारिस apparent to the throne, the विवाह was not a पूरा state occasion और अनेक विवरण were बाएँ to the युगल to decide, such as much of the अतिथि list of परिचय 1,900.
प्रिंस विलियम और Kate मिडलटन met in 2001.
उनके engagement on 20 October 2010 was announced on 16 November 2010.
the build-up to the wedding और the occasion itself attracted much मीडिया ध्यान, being compared in many तरीके साथ the 1981 विवाह of विलियम 's अभिभावक.
The अवसर was a पब्लिक अवकाश in the United किंगडम and प्रदर्शित many ceremonial पहलुओं, including use of the state carriages and भूमिकाएँ for the पैर Guards and household Cavalry.
कार्यक्रम were आयोजित around the Commonwealth to mark the wedding ; संगठनों और hotels आयोजित events आरपार Canada, over 5,000 गली parties यहूद आयोजित throughout the United किंगडम, and one million लोगों lined the route between वेस्टमिंस्टर Abbey and Buckingham राजमहल.
The ceremony थी viewed सजीव by tens of लाखो more around the world, including 72 लाख on the YouTube Royal चैनल.
In the संयुक्त Kingdom, टेलीविज़न audiences peaked at 26.3 लाख दर्शक, साथ a total of 36.7 लाख watching part of the coverage.
वैनेसा आनन्द lachey ( née minnillo ; born November 9, 1980 ) is an अमरीकी television व्यक्तित्व, टेलीविज़न host, फ़ैशन model, and अभिनेत्री.
Minnillo थी also नामित Miss टीन यूएसए in 1998.
She रै महरूम a नई York -based correspondent लिये Entertainment Tonight and hosted कुल निवेदन सजीव on एमटीवी.
A हाथ ( med. / lat. : manus, pl. manūs ) is a prehensile, multi- fingered extremity located at the समाप्त of an arm or forelimb of primates and इंसानो, chimpanzees, monkeys, and lemurs.
A few अन्य vertebrates ऐसे as the कोआला ( which has two opposable thumbs on प्रत्येक `` hand '' और फिंगरप्रिंट remarkably समान to human fingerprints ) are often वर्णित as having either `` हैंड्स '' or `` पंजे '' on their सामने limbs.
Hands हैं the main structures लिये physically manipulating the environment, प्रयुक्त for both gross मोटर कौशल ( such as grasping a विशाल object ) और ठीक motor कौशल ( ऐसे as picking up a small pebble ).
The उंगलियों contain कुछ of the densest क्षेत्रों of तंत्रिका endings on the body, are the richest source of tactile feedback, और have the महानतम positioning काबिलियत of the देह ; thus the भाव of touch is intimately associated with hands.
जैसे अन्य paired अंगों ( आँखें, फीट, टाँगे ), each hand is dominantly controlled by the opposing दिमाग hemisphere, so कि handedness, or the preferred hand चुनाव लिये single-handed activities ऐसे as writing साथ a pencil, reflects व्यक्तिगत दिमाग functioning.
कुछ evolutionary anatomists use the पद hand to refer to the appendage of अंक on the forelimb अधिक generally — for उदाहरण, in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of whether the three अंक of the बर्ड hand शामिल the वही homologous loss of दो digits as in the dinosaur hand.
The human हाथ रै 27 bones, not सहित the sesamoid हड्डियों जिससे क्रमांक varies between लोगों.
14 of which हैं the phalanges ( proximal, इंटरमीडिएट और distal ) of the उंगलियाँ.
The metacarpals हैं the bones कि connects the fingers और the कलाई.
Each इंसान hand रै 5 metacarpals and 8 carpal हड्डियों.
Too कूल थी a पेशेवर wrestling tag team और पूर्व faction most notably क्रियाशील in World कुश्ती federation/entertainment between 1998 and 2001 and लिये a छोटी time in 2004.
Basic डिजिटल सचेतक क्लॉक बगैर a रेडियो.
The चिह्नित in the top-left of the प्रदर्शक indicates that the समय is 4:00pm, नहीं 4:00am.
A 1969 रेडियो सचेतक clock ( Sony digimatic 8fc-59w ) with an early mechanical-digital display.
a डिजिटल क्लॉक is a प्रकार of clock that displays the time digitally, i.e. in numerals or other symbols, as opposed to an analog क्लॉक, where the समय is indicated by the positions of rotating हैंड्स.
Digital घड़ियाँ हैं प्रायः संबद्ध साथ electronic drives, लकिन the `` डिजिटल '' वर्णन refers only to the प्रदर्शक, not to the drive mechanism.
( Both एनालॉग and डिजिटल घड़ियाँ can be चलित either mechanically or electronically, but `` clockwork '' mechanisms साथ digital displays हैं rare. )
the biggest digital क्लॉक is the Lichtzeitpegel ( `` लाइट समय स्तर '' ) on the टेलीविज़न मीनार rheinturm düsseldorf, Germany.
Family Guy creator Seth macfarlane भी provides the voices of Peter griffin, Stewie griffin, Brian Griffin, और ग्लेन कीचड़.
Family Guy is an American animated sitcom that सुविधाएँ पाँच main voice अभिनेताओं, और numerous regular cast and recurring guest stars.
The principal आवाज़ cast consists of दिखाएँ creator सेठ macfarlane, Alex Borstein, Seth ग्रीन, mila Kunis ( who replaced लेसी chabert after the first season ) and माइक Henry और now, the new actor beau Osborne.
Recurring आवाज़ actors शामिल पैट्रिक warburton, आदम West, जॉन G. ब्रेनन, Nicole सुलीवान और Jennifer tilly, and repeat guest stars शामिल फिलिस Diller, चार्ल्स Durning, फटाफट limbaugh, and फिल lamarr.
अनेक डाल सदस्यों provide voices for multiple वर्ण.
The आवाज़ अभिनेताओं, in portraying the various अक्षर personalities on the show, draw inspiration इससे celebrities और पॉप culture.
Family guy वर्ण have been played by अधिक than एक actor, बाद members of the दिखाएँ left the series or था conflicting दायित्वों.
kunis was nominated लिये an Annie Award for voicing मेग griffin in the ऋतु 5 एपीसोड `` Barely विधिक `` and MacFarlane रै also won an Emmy Award for Outstanding voice-over Performance and an Annie पुरस्कार लिये Best Voice Acting in an एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न Production, हालांकि no अन्य cast सदस्य has won an पुरस्कार for उनके work on the series.
The five सेट of the board खेल एकाधिकार चित्रित यहाँ show the एवोल्यूशन of the खेल 's कलाकृति and डिजाइन in the United राज्य from 1935–2005.
the history of the board game एकाधिकार can be traced back to the जल्दी 20th century.
The earliest ज्ञात डिज़ाइन was by the American, एलिज़ाबेथ magie, patented in 1904 लकिन मौजूदा as जल्दी as 1902.
Magie 's original intent थी to प्रकाशित a फलक खेल to illustrate an economic principle, namely the georgist concept of a सिंगल जमीन value tax.
a श्रेणी of फलक खेल यहूद विकसित इससे 1906 through the 1930s that शामिल the buying and selling of जमीन and the विकास of that जमीन.
By 1934, a फलक खेल had been निर्मित much like the version of Monopoly बेची by Parker भाइयो and इसके related कंपनियाँ through the rest of the 20th सदी, और into the 21st.
अनेक लोगों, mostly in the midwestern United राज्य और निकट the ईस्ट coast, contributed to the game 's design and एवोल्यूशन.
By the 1970s, the विचार कि the game had महरूम निर्मित solely by चार्ल्स Darrow had become popular लोकगीत ; it was printed in the खेल 's निर्देश for many सालो, in a 1974 book devoted to Monopoly, और was cited in a general book परिचय toys भी as recently as 2007.
भी a मार्गदर्शिका to family games published लिये Reader 's Digest in 2003 only दिया क्रेडिट to darrow और Elizabeth Magie, erroneously stating कि magie 's असली game was निर्मित in the 1800s, and not acknowledging any of the खेल 's विकास between Magie 's सृष्टि of the game, and the eventual प्रकाशन by पार्कर भाइयो.
भी in the 1970s, Professor Ralph anspach, who had himself प्रकाशित a फलक खेल intended to illustrate the सिद्धान्त of both monopolies और विश्वास busting, fought पार्कर Brothers and इसके तब parent कम्पनी, सामान्य मिलों, over the trademarks of the Monopoly फलक game.
through the शोध of anspach and others, much of the early history of the खेल was `` rediscovered ''.
Anspach confronted Maxine Brady, लेखक of the 1974 book The Monopoly Book : रणनीति और Tactics of the संसार 's Most लोकप्रिय Game over the वास्तविक इतिहास of the खेल on Barry farber 's New York City talk दिखाएँ in 1975.
क्युकी of the lengthy अदालत प्रक्रम, including appeals, the legal औकात of पार्कर भाइयो ' trademarks on the game थी not settled जबतक 1985.
the game 's name remains a registered trademark of पार्कर Brothers, as do इसके विशिष्ट design तत्व.
at the निष्कर्ष of the court case, the game 's लोगो and ग्राफिक design तत्व became भाग of a larger Monopoly brand, licensed by Parker Brothers ' जनक companies onto a variety of items through the present day.
Despite the `` rediscovery '' of the board game 's early history in the 1970s and 1980s, and अनेक books और जर्नल articles on the विषय, हास्ब्रो ( Parker भाइयो ' वर्तमान parent company ) did not acknowledge any of the खेल 's इतिहास before चार्ल्स Darrow on इसके official Monopoly website as recently as जून 2012.
nor किया हास्ब्रो acknowledge anyone other than darrow in सामग्री published or प्रायोजित by उन्हें, at least as recently as 2006.
International tournaments, पहला आयोजित in the early 1970s, continue to the present, साथ the next world चैंपियनशिप संभावित scheduled लिये 2013.
Starting in 1985, a new generation of spin-off फलक games और कार्ड खेल appeared on both sides of the अटलांटिक Ocean.
in 1989, the first of many video खेल और कंप्यूटर खेल editions was published.
चूंकि 1994, अनेक आधिकारिक variants of the खेल, based on locations अन्य than Atlantic नगर, New जर्सी ( the official u.S. setting ) or London ( the आधिकारिक राष्ट्रमंडल setting, excepting कनाडा ), have been published by हास्ब्रो or its licensees.
In 2008, हास्ब्रो permanently changed the रंग scheme and कुछ of the gameplay of the मानक u.s. Edition of the game to मैच the UK संस्करण, हालांकि the u.S. मानक संस्करण maintains the Atlantic City property names.
हास्ब्रो भी परिवर्धित the आधिकारिक logo to दे the `` Mr. एकाधिकार '' character a 3-d computer-generated dekh, जिससे has चूंकि महरूम adopted by licensees USAopoly, Winning चालें and जीतना समाधान.
And हास्ब्रो रै भी been including the Speed die, introduced in 2006 's एकाधिकार : the Mega संस्करण by Winning Moves खेल, in संस्करण उत्पादित directly by Hasbro ( ऐसे as the 2009 चैंपियनशिप Edition ).
in बेसबॉल, a sacrifice fly is a batted बॉल कि satisfies चार criteria:
There हैं fewer than two outs जब the ball is hit.
the बॉल is hit to the outfield ( fair or foul ), or to infield foul territory.
the बैटर is put आउट क्युकी an outfielder ( or an infielder running in the outfield, or foul territory ) catches the ball on the मक्खी ( alternatively if the बैटर होता have महरूम आउट if not लिये an गलती or if the outfielder बूंदें the बॉल और another runner is put out ).
a धावक जो is already on base स्कोर on the play.
It is पुकारा a `` बलिदान '' fly because the batter presumably intends to कारण a teammate to स्कोर a run, जबकि sacrificing his own क्षमता to do so.
मिनेसोटा ( ) is a U.S. state स्तिथ in the Midwestern United States.
Minnesota थी carved आउट of the पूर्वी half of the Minnesota Territory and admitted to the Union as the 32nd राज्य on may 11, 1858.
ज्ञात as the `` जमीन of 10,000 Lakes '', the state 's नाम comes from a Dakota word लिये `` sky-tinted जल ''.
those waters, साथ with forests, पार्क, and wilderness क्षेत्रों, प्रस्ताव residents and tourists a variety of outdoor recreational opportunities.
Minnesota is the 12th most extensive और the 21st सबसे populous of the U.S. states.
Nearly 60 % of its residents सजीव in the minneapolis–saint पॉल metropolitan area ( known as the `` Twin शहरों '' ), the बीच of परिवहन, कारोबार, industry, education, सरकारी and घर to an internationally ज्ञात कला community.
The remainder of the राज्य consists of पश्चिमी prairies अभी given over to intensive कृषि ; पतझड़ी forests in the southeast, now साफ, farmed और settled ; and the कम populated उत्तर Woods, प्रयुक्त for mining, forestry, और recreation.
Minnesota is known for इसके अपेक्षाकृत mixed सोशल और राजनैतिक orientations, and has a ऊँची rate of नागरिक participation और वोटर turnout.
मिनेसोटा बाँधने among the healthiest states, और has a अत्यधिक साक्षर population.
the विशाल majority of residents हैं of Scandinavian and जर्मनी descent.
the राज्य is known as a बीच of Scandinavian American संस्कृति.
Ethnic diversity has increased in हाल decades.
Substantial influxes of एशियाई, African, और Latin अमरीकी immigrants have joined the descendants of European settlers और the original Native American inhabitants.
Grants हैं non-repayable निधि by one party ( ग्रान्ट makers ), प्रायः a government department, corporation, न्यास or trust, to a, often ( लकिन not always ) a nonprofit एंटिटी, शैक्षणिक institution, कारोबार or an व्यक्तिगत.
In अनुक्रम to receive a grant, some रूप of `` ग्रान्ट लिखने '' often referred to as either a proposal or an अनुप्रयोग is प्रायः required.
Most अनुदान हैं made to निधि a specific प्रोजेक्ट and require कुछ level of compliance and रिपोर्टिंग.
The ग्रान्ट writing process involves an applicant submitting a proposal ( or सबमिशन ) to a potential funder, either on the applicant 's अपना पहल or in response to a Request for प्रस्ताव from the funder.
अन्य grants can be दिए to individuals, ऐसे as victims of प्राकृतिक आपदाओं or individuals जो seek to खोलें a छोटी कारोबार.
sometimes grant makers आवश्यकता ग्रान्ट जरुरतमंदों to have कुछ रूप of tax-exempt status, be a पंजीकृत nonprofit संगठन or a local government.
लिये उदाहरण, tiered funding लिये a फ्रीवे are very large अनुदान negotiated at सरकारी नीति स्तर.
however smaller अनुदान may be provided by a सरकारी एजेंसी ( e.g. municipal सरकारी ).
project-related funding involving सरकारें, कारोबार, communities, और individuals is often arranged by application either in writing or online.
naturally occurring cobalt ( co ) is composed of 1 stable isotope, 59co. 28 radioisotopes have been characterized साथ the most stable being 60Co साथ a half-life of 5.2714 सालो, 57co साथ a half-life of 271.79 दिनों, 56Co साथ a half-life of 77.27 days, और 58Co with a half-life of 70.86 दिनों.
सब of the remaining रेडियोसक्रिय isotopes have half-lives कि हैं less than 18 घंटों और the majority of ये have half-lives that are कम than 1 second.
This element also रै 11 मेटा राज्य, all of which have half-lives less than 15 minutes.
the isotopes of cobalt range in परमाणु weight इससे 47co to 75co.
The primary क्षय mode लिये isotopes साथ atomic द्रव्यमान ईकाई मान less than that of the सबसे abundant stable isotope, 59co, is इलेक्ट्रॉन कैप्चर और the प्राथमिक mode of क्षय लिये those of वृहद than 59 atomic द्रव्यमान इकाई is beta क्षय.
the primary क्षय उत्पाद पहले 59Co are आयरन isotopes और the primary products after are निकल isotopes.
Standard परमाणु mass : 58.933195 ( 5 ) u
Who स्थानांतरित my चीज ?
An अद्भुत रास्ता to Deal with Change in अपना Work and in Your जीवन, published in 1998, is a motivational किताब by स्पेंसर Johnson written in the style of a मिसाल or कारोबार fable.
it describes बदलें in एक 's कार्य और life, and चार typical reactions to कहा change by दो चूहे and दो `` littlepeople '', दौरान उनके हंट for cheese.
a New यॉर्क टाइम्स business bestseller चूंकि रिलीज, जो Moved my Cheese ?
remained on the list for almost पाँच सालो और खर्च over 200 weeks on Publishers Weekly 's सजिल्द nonfiction list.
It रै बेची अधिक than 26 लाख नक़ल worldwide in 37 भाषाएं और remains to be एक of the best-selling business books.
निकिता Sergeyevich Khrushchev ( – सितंबर 11, 1971 ) led the Soviet संघ during भाग of the ठंडा युद्ध.
He served as पहला सचिव of the Communist Party of the सोवियत Union from 1953 to 1964, and as अध्यक्ष of the परिषद of मंत्रियों, or प्रीमियर, from 1958 to 1964.
Khrushchev थी जिम्मेदार for the partial de-stalinization of the Soviet संघ, लिये बैकिंग the progress of the early Soviet space कार्यक्रम, और लिये several अपेक्षाकृत उदार reforms in areas of घरेलू नीति.
khrushchev 's पार्टी colleagues removed him इससे शक्ति in 1964, replacing उसे साथ लियोनिद brezhnev as First सचिव और Alexei kosygin as Premier.
khrushchev was born in the रूसी village of Kalinovka in 1894, close to the present-day किनारा between रूस और युक्त.
He was employed as a metalworker in उसके युवावस्था, और during the रूसी सिविल War was a political commissar.
With the help of Lazar kaganovich, he worked his रास्ता up the सोवियत hierarchy.
He supported जोसेफ स्टालिन 's purges, and स्वीकृत हज़ारों of arrests.
In 1939, Stalin sent उसे to govern Ukraine, and he जारी the purges वहीँ.
During what was known in the Soviet संघ as the ग्रेट Patriotic युद्ध ( पूर्वी Front of World War II ), Khrushchev थी again a commissar, serving as an intermediary between स्टालिन और his generals.
Khrushchev थी उपस्थित at the खूनी defense of stalingrad, a fact he took great अभिमान in throughout his जीवन.
बाद the युद्ध, he लौटे to Ukraine before being recalled to मास्को as एक of Stalin 's close advisers.
In the शक्ति struggle triggered by स्टालिन 's death in 1953, Khrushchev, after several years, emerged victorious.
on February 25, 1956, at the 20th पार्टी Congress, he delivered the `` Secret Speech, '' denouncing Stalin 's purges and ushering in a less repressive era in the Soviet संघ.
उसके domestic नीतियों, aimed at bettering the जीवनदान of ordinary citizens, यहूद often ineffective, विशेषकर in the क्षेत्रफल of agriculture.
Hoping आखिरकार to rely on missiles for नेशनल रक्षा, Khrushchev ordered major cuts in conventional forces.
despite the cuts, khrushchev 's rule देखी the tensest सालो of the ठंडा युद्ध, culminating in the Cuban Missile संकट.
Some of khrushchev 's नीतियों यहूद देखी as erratic, विशेषकर by उसके emerging विरोधियों, who quietly रोज़ in शक्ति और अपदस्थ him in अक्तूबर 1964.
he किया नहीं suffer the deadly भाग्य of some previous losers of Soviet शक्ति struggles, लकिन was pensioned off with an apartment in Moscow and a dacha in the countryside.
उसके lengthy memoirs यहूद smuggled to the वेस्ट and published in part in 1970.
Khrushchev died in 1971 of heart disease.
अपर जठरांत्र ( GI ) bleeding refers to hemorrhage in the upper gastrointestinal ट्रैक्ट.
The anatomic cut-off लिये अपर gi bleeding is the स्नायु of treitz, जिससे connects the fourth portion of the duodenum to the diaphragm near the splenic flexure of the colon.
अपर GI bleeds हैं माना चिकित्सा emergencies, and require admission to हॉस्पिटल for तात्कालिक निदान और management.
Due to अग्रिम in medications और endoscopy, upper GI hemorrhage is now प्रायः treated बगैर surgery.
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100, आधारित on un 2010 projections ( रेड, orange, green ) and us Census ब्यूरो ऐतिहासिक estimates ( ब्लैक ).
वास्तविक अंकित population figures हैं in blue.
according to the highest अनुमान, the संसार जनसांख्यिकी may rise to 16 अरब by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate, it may मनाही to 6 अरब.
The world population is the कुल number of जीना humans on धरती.
As of today, it is अनुमानित to number billion by the United राज्य Census Bureau ( USCB ).
The USCB estimates that the संसार population exceeded 7 अरब on कूच 12, 2012.
according to a पृथक estimate by the United राष्ट्र Population निधि, it reached इस milestone on October 31, 2011.
the संसार जनसांख्यिकी has अनुभवी निरन्तर विकास चूंकि the समाप्त of the Great अकाल और the Black मौत in 1350, जब it stood at around 370 million.
The highest rates of growth – global population increases above 1.8 % प्रति साल – यहूद देखी briefly during the 1950s, and लिये a longer काल during the 1960s and 1970s.
the growth रेट peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, और had declined to 1.1 % by 2011.
कुल सालाना births were highest in the लेट 1980s at about 138 लाख, और are now expected to remain essentially निरंतर at their 2011 level of 134 लाख, while मौतों number 56 लाख per year, और are expected to increase to 80 million प्रति year by 2040.
Current projections दिखाएँ a continued increase in जनसांख्यिकी in the near future ( लकिन a steady मनाही in the जनसांख्यिकी विकास rate ), साथ the वैश्विक population expected to पहुँचें between 7.5 और 10.5 अरब by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates predict further विकास, stagnation, or even overall decline in the global population by 2150.
Some विश्लेषकों have questioned the sustainability of further world जनसांख्यिकी विकास, citing the growing pressures on the environment, global food supplies, and energy resources.
फिलिप्स lumileds lighting Company is the manufacturer of a wide range of high-power/high-efficiency light-emitting diodes ( LEDs ).
it is a अभी a fully स्वामित्व division of फिलिप्स Lighting.
Knuckle mnemonic for the number of days in each month of the Gregorian Calendar.
Each projecting knuckle represents a 31-day month.
A mnemonic (, with a मूक `` m '' ), or mnemonic यंत्र, is कोई learning technique कि एड्स सूचना स्तंभन.
mnemonics aim to translate सूचना into a रूप कि the इंसान brain can retain बेहतर than its original form.
Even the प्रक्रम of applying इस conversion might already aid the transfer of सूचना to long-term मेमोरी.
commonly encountered mnemonics हैं प्रायः लिये सूचियाँ and in auditory रूप, such as short कविताएं, acronyms, or memorable phrases, but mnemonics can भी be for other types of information and in visual or kinesthetic forms.
उनके use is आधारित on the observation कि the इंसान mind अधिक easily remembers स्थानिक, निजी, आश्चर्यजनक, physical, sexual, humorous, or otherwise 'relatable ' information, rather than अधिक abstract or impersonal forms of information.
The शब्द mnemonic is निकला from the प्राचीन यूनानी word μνημονικός ( mnēmonikos ), meaning `` of memory '' and is related to mnemosyne ( `` remembrance '' ), the name of the देवी of मेमोरी in यूनानी mythology.
Both of these शब्द हैं derived from μνήμη ( mnēmē ), `` स्मरण, memory ''.
Mnemonics in प्राचीनता यहूद सबसे प्रायः माना in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of कया is today known as the Art of memory.
Ancient यूनानियों और romans विशिष्ट between two types of memory : the 'natural ' memory and the 'artificial ' मेमोरी.
The पूर्व is inborn, and is the one कि everyone uses automatically and without thinking.
the artificial मेमोरी in कंट्रास्ट रै to be प्रशिक्षित and विकसित through the सीखना and practicing of a variety of mnemonic techniques.
Mnemonic systems हैं special techniques or strategies consciously used to improve मेमोरी, it helps employ information already भंडारित in long-term memory to मेक memorization an easier कार्य.
अध्यक्ष Bush signing the no चाइल्ड Left Behind Act at हैमिल्टन H.S. in हैमिल्टन, Ohio.
The no चाइल्ड Left पीछे अधिनियम of 2001 ( nclb ) is a United States Act of कॉंग्रेस कि is a reauthorization of the Elementary और द्वितीयक Education Act, जिससे शामिल Title I, the government 's flagship aid कार्यक्रम for सुविधाहीन students.
NCLB supports standards-based शिक्षा सुधार based on the आधार that setting ऊँची standards and establishing measurable लक्ष्य can improve individual outcomes in education.
the अधिनियम requires राज्य to develop assessments in basic कौशल.
राज्य जरूर give these आकलन to सब students at चुनें ग्रेड levels in order to receive संघीय स्कूल funding.
the Act does not assert a नेशनल उपलब्धि मानक ; standards हैं नियत by प्रत्येक individual state.
nclb विस्तारित the federal भूमिका in पब्लिक education through सालाना testing, सालाना academic progress, report ताश, teacher qualifications, and funding परिवर्तन.
The bill passed in the U.S. Congress with bipartisan support.
चकमा B श्रेणी utility circa 1950, चलित by अल्बर्ट Namatjira
A पिकअप ट्रक or pick-up, often बस referred to as a पिकअप, is a लाइट motor गाडी with an open-top, rear कार्गो क्षेत्रफल ( bed ).
In उत्तर अमेरिका, the पद पिकअप is used for light ट्रक with a lighter ड्यूटी chassis और फैक्टरी निर्मित, एकीकृत bed, as well as for coupé utility vehicles, often based on a personal car chassis, but भी often on a special समर्पित chassi for ऐसे use.
कुछ देशों have their own terms समान to पिकअप, ऐसे as ute in Australia and New Zealand, or bakkie in दक्षिण Africa.
विशाल पिकअप trucks are somewhat rare in यूरोपीय, where वैन और light lorries are commonly प्रयुक्त लिये समान भूमिकाएँ.
This 15th-century depiction of Charlemagne and पोप एड्रियन I shows a well-bred मध्यकालीन घोड़ा with मेहराबदार neck, refined head and elegant gait.
Horses in the Middle आयु differed in आकार, build और breed from the आधुनिक horse, and यहूद, on औसत, छोटी.
They यहूद also more सेंट्रल to समाज than their modern counterparts, being अनिवार्य for war, कृषि, और transport.
नतीजतन, specific types of घोड़ा developed, अनेक of which have no modern समतुल्य.
While an समझना of आधुनिक घोड़ा breeds and equestrianism is vital लिये any विश्लेषण of the medieval घोड़ा, शोधकर्ताओं also need to consider documentary ( दोनो written and सचित्र ) and archaeological evidence.
घोड़े in the मध्य Ages were rarely differentiated by breed, लकिन बल्कि by उपयोग.
इस led उन्हें to be described, for example, as `` chargers `` ( युद्ध घोड़े ), `` palfreys `` ( riding horses ), कार्ट घोड़े or packhorses.
Reference is also given to उनके place of origin, ऐसे as `` Spanish horses, '' but whether this referred to एक नस्ल or several is अनजान.
Another difficulty arising during any study of मध्यकालीन documents or literature is the लचीलापन of the medieval भाषाएं, where अनेक शब्द can be प्रयुक्त लिये एक thing ( or, conversely, अनेक objects हैं referred to by एक शब्द ).
शब्द such as ' courser ' and 'चार्जr ' हैं used interchangeably ( भी भीतर एक document ), और where एक एपिक may speak disparagingly of a rouncey, another praises its कौशल and swiftness.
Significant technological अग्रिम in घुड़सवार equipment, often introduced from अन्य संस्कृतियों, अनुमत for significant परिवर्तन in दोनो warfare और कृषि.
In particular, improved designs लिये the solid-treed saddle as well as the आगमन of the stirrup, नाल and horse collar were significant अग्रिम in मध्यकालीन समाज.
नतीजतन, the assumptions और theories विकसित by इतिहासकारों हैं not definitive, और debate स्टिल rages on अनेक issues, such as the breeding or size of the horse, and a number of स्त्रोत जरूर be consulted in अनुक्रम to understand the breadth of the विषय.
the म्यूज़िक Man is a musical with book, music, and lyrics by Meredith willson, based on a story by willson और फ्रैंकलिन Lacey.
The plot concerns कॉन man Harold हिल, who poses as a लड़कों ' बैंड organizer and leader and sells बैंड यंत्र और uniforms to naive townsfolk before skipping कस्बा with the cash.
In नदी City, आयोवा, prim लाइब्रेरियन and पियानो टीचर Marian paroo sees through him, लकिन जब हिल helps उसके younger bhai overcome उसके fear of सोशल interactions due to उसके लिस्प, marian begins to पतन in love साथ Harold.
हेरोल्ड, in फेरे गिरना for marian, risks होने caught to win her.
in 1957, the show became a hit on ब्रॉडवे, winning five Tony Awards, including Best Musical, and running लिये 1,375 performances.
the डाल album won the first Grammy पुरस्कार for `` Best असली डाल एल्बम '' and थी number one on the Billboard charts for 245 weeks.
the show 's success led to revivals and a लोकप्रिय 1962 फिल्मी अनुकूलन और a 2003 television रीमेक.
It अक्सर is produced by both professional और amateur थिएटर कंपनियाँ.
Surveyor 's व्हील
A निरीक्षक 's व्हील, also called a clickwheel, hodometer, waywiser, trundle wheel, measuring wheel, or perambulator is a device for measuring distance.
Largest non-polar रेगिस्तान
Sand dunes in the Rub ' al Khali ( `` खाली quarter '' ) of सऊदी Arabia.
Makhtesh रेमन, Negev desert, Israel
A मरुस्थल is a landscape or region of जमीन that is बहुत शुष्क because of low वर्षा amounts ( वर्षण ), प्रायः रै little coverage by plants, और in जिससे streams शुष्क up unless they हैं supplied by water from बाहर क्षेत्रों.
रेगिस्तान can भी be वर्णित as areas where अधिक जल is lost by evapotranspiration than जलप्रपात as वर्षण.
Desert पौधे must have special adaptations to survive साथ इस छोटी जल.
Deserts generally receive कम than 25 cm of rain ( वर्षण ) प्रत्येक साल.
Semideserts or steppes हैं regions which receive between और.
in the Köppen climate वर्गीकरण system, deserts हैं classed as BWh ( hot desert ) or BWk ( temperate desert ).
In the Thornthwaite जलवायु वर्गीकरण system, रेगिस्तान would be classified as arid megathermal climates.
संसार युद्ध i ( wwi ) थी a global war केंद्रित in Europe कि began on 28 जुलाई 1914 और lasted until 11 November 1918.
It थी predominantly पुकारा the संसार War or the ग्रेट War इससे इसके occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of संसार War II in 1939, and the पहला World युद्ध or World War I thereafter.
it involved सब the world 's great शक्तियां, जिससे were समवेत in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( आधारित on the Triple entente of the संयुक्त किंगडम, France और रूस ) and the Central Powers ( originally the ट्रिपल Alliance of Germany, austria-hungary और इटली ; लकिन, as austria–hungary था लिया the offensive विरूद्ध the अनुबंध, इटली किया नहीं enter into the युद्ध ).
ये alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the युद्ध : इटली, Japan and the संयुक्त राज्य joined the Allies, and the उस्मानी साम्राज्य और Bulgaria the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military कर्मियों, सहित 60 लाख europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest युद्धों in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely क्युकी of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of हथियार without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility.
it थी the fifth- deadliest विरोध in world history, subsequently paving the रास्ता for various राजनैतिक changes, ऐसे as revolutions in many of the nations शामिल.
एक of the long-term कल्याणकारी of the युद्ध was the पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in the foreign नीतियों of the great शक्तियां of Europe.
अधिक immediately, the हत्या of Archduke Franz फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया, the वारिस to the throne of austria-hungary, on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis जब austria-hungary subsequently वितरित an ultimatum to the किंगडम of Serbia.
अनेक alliances formed over the पिछला दशकों यहूद invoked.
Within weeks, the प्रमुख powers were at war and, via their colonies, the conflict soon स्प्रेड around the संसार.
on 28 जुलाई, the austro-hungarians fired the first shots of the war as तैयारी for the आक्रमण of सर्बिया.
जबकि the russians mobilised, the germans invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम and ध्वज on the way to France, providing a casus belli लिये Britain 's घोषणा of war विरूद्ध Germany.
बाद the जर्मनी march on पेरिस was brought to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the marne —the पश्चिमी Front settled into a static बैटल of attrition साथ a गर्त लकीर कि changed छोटी until 1917.
on the पूर्वी सामने, the Russian army थी कामयाब against the austro-hungarians, but was stopped in इसके आक्रमण of East prussia by the germans.
in November the Ottoman साम्राज्य joined the war, खोलने up fronts in the काकेशस, मेसोपोटामिया और the Sinai.
Italy और Bulgaria गई to युद्ध in 1915 और रोमानिया in 1916.
in रूस, the tsar 's सरकारी collapsed in कूच 1917 and a subsequent revolution in नवम्बर brought the Russians to शर्तें साथ the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive along the पश्चिमी सामने, the allies drove back the germans in a series of successful offensives और American forces began प्रवेश the trenches.
Germany, which था its अपना trouble साथ revolutionaries, सहमत to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The युद्ध ended in विजय लिये the allies.
कार्यक्रम on the home fronts यहूद as उग्र as on the battle fronts, as the भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize their जनशक्ति and आर्थिक संसाधन to लड़ो a कुल युद्ध.
By the end of the war, four major इम्पीरियल powers—the German, रूसी, Austro-Hungarian and उस्मानी empires—ceased to मौजूद.
The successor राज्य of the former two lost a great राशि of territory, while the latter दो were dismantled entirely.
the मैप of सेंट्रल यूरोपीय was redrawn into अनेक smaller राज्य.
the लीग of Nations थी formed in the आशा of preventing another ऐसे conflict.
The European राष्ट्रवाद spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the परखना of जर्मनी 's defeat and समस्याएं साथ the Treaty of versailles हैं agreed to be factors contributing to World युद्ध ii.
`` Girls Just Want to have मजा '' is a 1979 song originally लिखा by Robert Hazard और बना प्रसिद्ध by सिंगर Cyndi lauper.
it थी the first प्रमुख सिंगल released by Lauper as a सोलो कलाकार और the lead-off सिंगल from her डेब्यू एल्बम She 's so असामान्य.
Lauper’s संस्करण gained recognition as a feminist गान and प्रचारित by an award-winning वीडियो.
it has महरूम covered on either an एल्बम or in सजीव कॉन्सर्ट by over 30 अन्य कलाकारों.
The single थी Lauper 's भेदन hit, reaching # 2 on the Billboard Hot 100 and becoming a विश्वव्यापी hit throughout late 1983 and जल्दी 1984.
It remains एक of Lauper 's signature songs and was a widely लोकप्रिय song during the era of its release, the 1980s.
the `` Rolling Stone & एमटीवी : '100 Greatest Pop गीतों ' : 1-50 '', `` Rolling Stone : `` The 100 शीर्ष Music वीडियो '' '' and the `` vh1 : 100 Greatest Videos '' सूचियाँ क्रमित the song at # 22, # 39 और # 45, क्रमशः.
the song received a ग्रैमी Award nomination for Record of the Year और बेहतरीन Female Pop Vocal Performance.
View of defibrillator एलेक्ट्रोड स्थिति और अवस्थिति.
Defibrillation is a आम उपचार for life-threatening cardiac dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, and pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic dose of electrical उर्जा to the affected heart with a device पुकारा a defibrillator.
इस depolarizes a नाजुक mass of the heart muscle, terminates the dysrhythmia, और allows normal sinus लय to be reestablished by the देह 's प्राकृतिक pacemaker, in the sinoatrial node of the heart.
defibrillators can be external, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the प्रकार of यंत्र used or needed.
कुछ बाह्य units, known as automated external defibrillators ( AEDs ), automate the निदान of treatable लय, meaning that lay responders or bystanders हैं समर्थ to उपयोग them successfully साथ little, or in some मामले no प्रशिक्षण at सब.
The Cato Institute is an अमरीकी libertarian सोचो टैंक headquartered in Washington, d.c.
It थी founded as the Charles koch न्यास in 1974 by मरे rothbard, ed Crane और Charles Koch, अध्यक्ष of the फलक and chief executive officer of the conglomerate koch उद्योग, inc..
in July 1976, the name थी बदला to the Cato संस्थान.
according to the 2011 वैश्विक go To Think Tank अनुक्रमणिका, Cato is the 6th सबसे influential US based सोचो tank, रैंकिंग 3rd in आर्थिक नीति और 2nd in सोशल नीति.
the संस्थान 's stated मिशन is `` to increase the understanding of पब्लिक नीतियों based on the सिद्धान्त of limited सरकारी, free बाज़ार, व्यक्तिगत liberty, and peace.
The संस्थान will use the most effective means to originate, advocate, promote, and disseminate लागू policy प्रस्ताव that बनाएँ free, खोलें, और civil समाजों in the संयुक्त राज्य और throughout the world. ''
केटो विद्वानों यहूद नाजुक of George W. Bush 's Republican प्रशासन ( 2001–2009 ) on several issues, सहित the Iraq War, सिविल लिबर्टीज, शिक्षा, कृषि, उर्जा policy, और excessive government बिता.
on अन्य issues, they समर्थित बुश administration initiatives, most notably health परवाह, Social सुरक्षा, वैश्विक वार्मिंग, tax नीति, and आव्रजन.
दौरान the 2008 u.S. अध्यक्षीय election, Cato विद्वानों criticized दोनो major-party candidates, जॉन McCain and Barack ओबामा.
केटो रै criticized President ओबामा 's stances on policy मुद्दे चूंकि his inauguration, such as फिस्कल stimulus, healthcare सुधार, foreign policy, and the युद्ध on Drugs, while supporting उसके stance on the repeal of do n't Ask, do n't Tell और liberal immigration policy.
ड्रैकुला is an 1897 Gothic हॉरर अनोखा by Irish author ब्राम स्टोकर.
Famous for introducing the अक्षर of the पिशाच Count ड्रैकुला, the अनोखा tells the स्टोरी of ड्रैकुला 's attempt to relocate इससे Transylvania to England, and the battle between ड्रैकुला and a small समूह of men और महिलाओं led by Professor Abraham Van helsing.
Dracula has महरूम assigned to many literary जाति सहित पिशाच literature, horror fiction, the gothic अनोखा and आक्रमण literature.
The अनोखा touches on विषयवस्तु ऐसे as the role of women in विक्टोरियन culture, यौन conventions, आव्रजन, उपनिवेशवाद, और post-colonialism.
Although स्टोकर किया नहीं इफ़तेरा the पिशाच, he defined इसके modern form, and the अनोखा has शाखित numerous theatrical, फिल्मी और television interpretations.
quidditch is a competitive sport in the wizarding संसार of the हैरी कुम्हार universe, and is इससे the श्रेणी of children 's novels और movies.
It is an extremely अशिष्ट but बहुत लोकप्रिय semi-contact sport, played by wizards और witches.
मिलान हैं played between दो टीमों of seven players सवारी उड़ती broomsticks, using चार balls and six elevated ring-shaped लक्ष्य, three on each side of the quidditch pitch ( फ़ील्ड ).
in the Harry Potter ब्रह्मांड, quidditch holds a fervent following समान to the position कि संघ फ़ुटबॉल holds as a globally लोकप्रिय खेल.
the sport is monumental throughout the wizarding संसार.
हैरी plays an महत्वपूर्ण स्थिति लिये his हाउस team at हॉग्वार्ट्स : he is the seeker and becomes the captain in his छठे year there.
Regional और international competitions are mentioned throughout the series.
in Goblet of Fire, Quidditch at हॉग्वार्ट्स is cancelled लिये the tri-wizard Tournament, but हैरी and the weasleys attend the Quidditch संसार Cup.
in जोड, हैरी उपयोग उसके quidditch कौशल to capture a golden अंडा इससे a ड्रैगन called the Hungarian horntail ( in the पहला कार्य of the Tri-Wizard Tournament ), to कैप्चर a उड़ती key in Philosopher 's स्टोन, and on two key occasions in deathly hallows — getting थाम of Ravenclaw 's diadem, and दौरान the final fight with voldemort — the `` unerring skill of the seeker '' is उपयोगी to him in snatching the Elder wand out of the air.
Harry कुम्हार has owned two broomsticks, the Nimbus 2000 और the firebolt, दोनो of which are नष्ट by the series ' समाप्त.
the game रै been अपनाया in the रियल world in the रूप of मगलू Quidditch.
the United राज्य Congress is the bicameral legislature of the संघीय सरकारी of the United States consisting of two houses : the निम्नतर हाउस known as the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि और the upper हाउस known as the सीनेट.
कॉंग्रेस meets in the कैपिटल in वॉशिंगटन, D.C.
दोनो representatives and सीनेटरों are chosen through direct चुनाव.
कॉंग्रेस रै a कुल of 535 मतदान members : 435 सदस्यों in the House of Representatives and 100 members in the Senate.
सदस्यों of the House of Representatives serve two-year terms representing the लोगों of a ज़िला.
Congressional जिले are apportioned to राज्य by population using the संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी परिणाम, each राज्य in the union having at least one प्रतिनिधि in the हाउस of Representatives.
Regardless of जनसांख्यिकी, प्रत्येक of the 50 राज्य has two senators ; the 100 senators प्रत्येक serve a six-year पद.
The शर्तें are staggered so प्रत्येक दो सालो approximately one-third of the Senate is up लिये चुनाव.
प्रत्येक लड़खड़ाते group of one-third of the सीनेटरों are पुकारा 'classes '.
no राज्य of the United राज्य रै two सीनेटरों from the वही क्लास.
Most incumbents तलाश re-election, और उनके historical likelihood of winning subsequent elections exceeds 90 प्रतिशत.
in अगस्त 2012, a gallup पोल reported that Congress’s approval rating amongst अमेरिकी थी at 10 %, मिलान a 38-year कम पहुँचे in नवम्बर 2011.
`` a Little More Country Than That '' is the title of a सोंग लिखा by जॉय + Rory 's रोरी Lee Feek, Wynn varble, और डॉन Poythress, and recorded by अमरीकी country कलाकार ईस्टन कोर्बिन.
it थी released in August 2009 as Corbin 's डेब्यू single और is included on उसके self-titled debut एल्बम.
In अप्रैल 2010, the सोंग पहुँचे Number एक on the country music चार्ट, making Corbin the first पुरूष सोलो कलाकार in seven years to send a डेब्यू सिंगल to Number एक.
It रै महरूम certified Gold by the riaa.
The BlackBerry is a लकीर of wireless handheld डिवाइस and सेवाएं designed और marketed by शोध in गति सीमित ( RIM ) operating as ब्लैकबेरी.
The first ब्लैकबेरी यंत्र, an email पेजर, was released in 1999 ; the most हाल ब्लैकबेरी devices, the Z10 और q10, यहूद announced on January 30, 2013.
the user इंटरफ़ेस varies by model ; most विशेषता a physical क्वर्टी keyboard, while newer generations have relied on a multi-touch स्क्रीन और virtual keyboard.
A ब्लैकबेरी can shoot वीडियो, take फ़ोटो, खेल music, and perform online functions ऐसे as web-browsing and emailing.
वे can भी send and receive push ईमेल और तत्काल संदेश while maintaining a ऊँची level of security through on-device संदेश एन्क्रिप्शन, and हैं designed to function as personal डिजिटल assistants.
BlackBerry डिवाइस support a large variety of तत्काल messaging features, साथ the most लोकप्रिय being the proprietary BlackBerry Messenger सेवा.
the ब्लैकबेरी PlayBook is a टैब्लेट computer offered by the कम्पनी.
The 100 millionth ब्लैकबेरी स्मार्टफोन was shipped in June quarter of 2010 and the 200 millionth smartphone was shipped in September quarter of 2012.
ब्लैकबेरी accounts लिये 3 % of मोबाईल यंत्र बिक्री worldwide in 2011, making its manufacturer the sixth सबसे popular device मेकर ( 25 % of mobile यंत्र बिक्री are स्मार्टफ़ोन ).
the consumer ब्लैकबेरी Internet सेवा is available in 91 देशों worldwide on over 500 mobile service operators using विभिन्न मोबाईल technologies.
as of सितंबर 2012, there were eighty million सदस्य विश्वव्यापी to BlackBerry.
In 2011 the Caribbean और Latin America had the highest penetrations of BlackBerry smartphones worldwide, साथ up to about 45 प्रति cent in the प्रदेश having a RIM device.
ब्लैकबेरी, iphone, एंड्रॉइड, and खिड़कियाँ Phone हैं considered the चार प्रमुख स्मार्टफोन ब्रांड्स.
ब्लैकबेरी is widely referred to as `` crackberry '' in the संयुक्त राज्य, which alludes to इसके excessive use by its स्वामी and is a reference to the addictiveness of crack कोका.
Use of the term crackberry became so फैली कि in नवम्बर 2006 Webster 's नई World कॉलेज Dictionary named `` crackberry '' the `` नई शब्द of the साल. ''
An example of a माँग curve shifting.
the shift इससे d1 to D2 अर्थात् an increase in demand with consequences for the other variables
in economics, the माँग वक्र is the आलेख depicting the relationship between the price of a certain कमोडिटी and the amount of it that उपभोक्ता हैं willing और समर्थ to purchase at that given दाम.
it is a ग्राफिक representation of a demand schedule.
the demand वक्र लिये सब consumers together फ़ॉलो from the माँग वक्र of every व्यक्तिगत उपभोक्ता : the व्यक्तिगत demands at प्रत्येक price are added साथ.
Demand curves are used to अनुमान व्यवहार in competitive बाज़ार, और हैं प्रायः संयुक्त with सप्लाई curves to estimate the संतुलन दाम ( the दाम at which sellers together are willing to sell the वही amount as buyers together हैं willing to buy, भी ज्ञात as मार्केट clearing price ) और the equilibrium मात्रा ( the amount of that good or सेवा कि होगा be उत्पादित and bought without surplus/excess supply or shortage/excess माँग ) of that मार्केट.
In a monopolistic मार्केट, the demand curve facing the monopolist is simply the market माँग curve.
historia
by Nikolaos Gysis ( 1892 )
इतिहास ( from यूनानी - historia, meaning `` पूछताछ, ज्ञान acquired by छानबीन '' ) is an छतरियाँ term that relates to past events as well as the discovery, collection, organization, और प्रस्तुतीकरण of सूचना about ये events.
the term includes लौकिक, geologic, और सशुल्क इतिहास, but is often generically implied to औसत इंसान history.
Scholars who write परिचय इतिहास हैं पुकारा इतिहासकारों.
History can भी refer to the अकादमिक discipline जिससे uses a narrative to जाँचें and analyse a sequence of पास्ट कार्यक्रम, and objectively determine the patterns of cause और प्रभाव कि determine उन्हें.
इतिहासकारों sometimes बहस the प्रकृति of इतिहास और इसके उपयोगिता by discussing the study of the discipline as an end in itself and as a रास्ता of providing `` परिप्रेक्ष्य '' on the समस्याएं of the उपस्थित.
कहानियां आम to a particular संस्कृति, लकिन not समर्थित by बाह्य स्त्रोत ( ऐसे as the किस्से surrounding किंग Arthur ) are प्रायः वर्गीकृत as cultural विरासत or legends, because they do नहीं support the `` disinterested investigation '' जरूरी of the discipline of इतिहास.
Events occurring prior to लिखा record are माना prehistory.
Herodotus, a 5th century B.C. यूनानी इतिहासकार is माना within the Western tradition to be the `` father of history '', and, along साथ his contemporary Thucydides, helped form the मूलाधार लिये the आधुनिक पढ़ाई of human इतिहास.
Their कार्य continues to be read आज and the divide between the culture-focused Herodotus and the military-focused Thucydides remains a पाइंट of contention or दृष्टिकोण in आधुनिक historical writing.
In the Eastern परंपरा, a राज्य वृत्तान्त the वसन्त और पतझड़ Annals थी ज्ञात to be compiled इससे as early as 722 bce हालांकि only 2nd सदी BCE ग्रन्थ बच.
Ancient influences have helped spawn variant interpretations of the nature of इतिहास जिससे have विकसित over the centuries और continue to बदलें आज.
the modern पढ़ाई of इतिहास is wide-ranging, and शामिल the पढ़ाई of specific regions और the study of निश्चित topical or thematical elements of ऐतिहासिक investigation.
प्रायः इतिहास is taught as part of primary और secondary शिक्षा, और the अकादमिक पढ़ाई of इतिहास is a प्रमुख अनुशासन in विश्वविद्यालयों studies.
मैल्कम x ( ; may 19, 1925february 21, 1965 ), born Malcolm Little and also ज्ञात as el-hajj Malik El-Shabazz ( ), थी an african-american Muslim मंत्री and human अधिकारों activist.
to उसके admirers, he थी a courageous एडवोकेट लिये the अधिकारों of blacks, a man जो indicted white अमेरिका in the harshest शर्तें for इसके अपराधों against ब्लैक अमेरिकी.
detractors अभियुक्त him of उपदेश racism, ब्लैक सर्वोच्चता, and हिंसा.
He रै महरूम पुकारा एक of the महानतम and सबसे influential अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी in इतिहास.
मैल्कम x 's पिता died—killed by white supremacists, it थी rumored—when he was यंग, and at तनिक one of his uncles was lynched.
जब he was 13, उसके mother was placed in a mental hospital, and he थी लगाई in a series of फोस्टर घरों.
in 1946, at age 20, he went to थाना लिये तोड़कर and entering.
In थाना, Malcolm X became a सदस्य of the Nation of Islam ; after his parole in 1952, he quickly रोज़ to become one of इसके leaders.
For a दर्जन years, Malcolm X थी the पब्लिक face of the विवादास्पद समूह, लकिन मोहभंग साथ स्वदेश of islam सिर इलियास Muhammad led उसे to छोड़ the स्वदेश in March 1964.
After a period of सफर in Africa and the Middle ईस्ट, he लौटे to the संयुक्त States, where he संस्थापित मुस्लिम Mosque, Inc. and the Organization of Afro-American एकता.
in February 1965, कम than a साल after leaving the Nation of islam, he was assassinated by तीन members of the समूह.
Malcolm X 's expressed मान्यताओं बदला substantially over समय.
As a प्रवक्ता लिये the स्वदेश of islam he सिखाया ब्लैक सर्वोच्चता and advocated separation of black और श्वेत अमेरिकी —in contrast to the civil rights movement 's emphasis on संयोजन.
बाद breaking साथ the Nation of islam in 1964—saying of his संघ with it, `` i किया many बाते as a [ Black ] Muslim कि i 'm sorry लिये अभी.
I थी a zombie then... pointed in a निश्चित direction and told to कूच '' —and बनने a सुन्नी मुस्लिम, he disavowed racism and expressed willingness to work with civil अधिकारों leaders, he continued to emphasize Pan-Africanism, ब्लैक self-determination, and self-defense.
हेनरी merritt `` Hank '' Paulson, Jr. ( born March 28, 1946 ) is an अमरीकी बैंकर जो परोसा as the 74th संयुक्त States Secretary of the Treasury.
He had परोसा as the अध्यक्ष और Chief Executive अधिकारी of गोल्डमैन Sachs, and is now chairman of the Paulson संस्थान, जिससे he founded in 2011 to प्रचार चिरस्थायी आर्थिक growth और a क्लीनर पर्यावरण around the world, with an आरंभिक focus on the United राज्य and China.
A आभासी machine ( vm ) is a software implemented abstraction of the underlying हार्डवेयर, जिससे is प्रस्तुत to the अनुप्रयोग layer of the प्रणाली.
आभासी machines may be आधारित on specifications of a hypothetical कंप्यूटर or emulate the कंप्यूटर architecture और कृत्यों of a रियल world computer.
Spiders ( order Araneae ) हैं air-breathing arthropods that have eight legs और chelicerae साथ fangs that inject venom.
They are the largest order of arachnids और rank सातवाँ in कुल species विविधता among सब other समूह of organisms.
मकड़ियों are मिला विश्वव्यापी on प्रत्येक महाद्वीप मगर for अंटार्कटिक, और have become established in nearly every आवास with the एक्सेप्शन of एयर और समुद्र colonization.
as of 2008, at तनिक 43,678 spider प्रजाति, और 109 families have been अंकित by taxonomists ; however, there रै been भ्रम within the scientific community as to how सब ये परिवारों should be वर्गीकृत, as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications that have been proposed चूंकि 1900.
anatomically, मकड़ियों differ from अन्य arthropods in कि the usual body खण्ड हैं fused into दो tagmata, the cephalothorax और abdomen, and joined by a छोटी, बेलनाकार pedicel.
Unlike कीट, मकड़ियों do not have antennae.
In सब मगर the सबसे आदिम समूह, the Mesothelae, spiders have the most centralized nervous प्रणालियों of सब arthropods, as सब उनके ganglia are fused into एक द्रव्यमान in the cephalothorax.
नापसंद सबसे arthropods, spiders have no extensor मांसपेशियां in उनके limbs and बजाय extend उन्हें by हाइड्रोलिक pressure.
उनके abdomens भालू appendages कि have महरूम परिवर्धित into spinnerets that extrude silk इससे up to six types of silk glands within उनके उदर.
मकड़ी webs vary widely in size, shape and the राशि of स्टिकी लड़ी used.
It अभी appears कि the सर्पिल orb वेब may be एक of the earliest फ़ॉर्म, and मकड़ियों that produce tangled cobwebs हैं more abundant और विविध than orb-web spiders.
spider-like arachnids साथ silk-producing spigots appeared in the devonian काल about, लकिन these पशु जाहिर lacked spinnerets.
सच्चा मकड़ियों have been found in carboniferous रॉक्स from, और are बहुत समान to the सबसे आदिम surviving अनुक्रम, the mesothelae.
The प्रमुख groups of modern spiders, Mygalomorphae and araneomorphae, पहला appeared in the triassic काल, before.
a herbivorous species, bagheera kiplingi, was described in 2008, but all other known species हैं परभक्षी, mostly preying on कीट and on अन्य spiders, हालांकि a few विशाल species भी take birds और lizards.
Spiders use a wide range of strategies to capture prey : trapping it in sticky webs, lassoing it with स्टिकी bolas, mimicking the शिकार to avoid detection, or running it down.
सबसे detect prey मुख्यतः by संवेदन कंपन, but the क्रियाशील hunters have अधि दृष्टि, और hunters of the genus portia show लक्षण of प्रज्ञा in their चुनाव of tactics और ability to develop new ones.
मकड़ियों ' guts are too narrow to take solids, और they liquidize their food by flooding it साथ digestive enzymes और grinding it with the bases of their pedipalps, as वे do नहीं have सच्चा जबड़े.
Male spiders पहचानो themselves by a किस्में of complex प्रेमालाप संस्कार to avoid होने eaten by the females.
males of सबसे species जीवित a few matings, limited मुख्यतः by उनके छोटी life spans.
महिलाओं बुनते रेशा egg-cases, each of जिससे may contain सैंकड़ों of अंडे.
महिलाओं of अनेक प्रजाति परवाह लिये their यंग, लिये example by carrying उन्हें around or by sharing खाना with them.
a अल्पसंख्यक of species are social, building communal webs that may house anywhere इससे a few to 50,000 individuals.
सोशल बर्ताव ranges from precarious toleration, as in the विधवा spiders, to co-operative शिकार और food-sharing.
हालांकि most मकड़ियों live for at सबसे two सालो, tarantulas and other mygalomorph मकड़ियों can सजीव up to 25 सालो in captivity.
While the venom of a few species is dangerous to इंसानो, scientists are now researching the उपयोग of spider venom in medicine and as non-polluting pesticides.
मकड़ी रेशा provides a संयोजन of lightness, strength and elasticity that is superior to कि of synthetic सामग्री, और मकड़ी silk genes have महरूम inserted into mammals and plants to देखिए if these can be प्रयुक्त as रेशा factories.
As a परिणाम of उनके wide range of behaviors, spiders have become common प्रतीकों in आर्ट और mythology symbolizing विभिन्न combinations of patience, क्रूरता और creative powers.
डोना मारी pinciotti ( Born February 13, 1960 ) is a fictional character and एक of the two female leads in the फॉक्स sitcom That '70s Show, appearing in सब eight सीज़न.
portrayed by लौरा Prepon, Donna is the प्रेम ब्याज to eric Forman.
us county household मध्य आय 2009.
मध्य US household income, 2001-2011
Household income is a माप commonly प्रयुक्त by the United राज्य government और निजी institutions.
Each household is measured by the income of प्रत्येक निवासी over the आयु of 15.
आय includes मजदूरी और salaries, बेरोजगारी insurance, disability payments, चाइल्ड support payments received, नियमित rental रसीदें, as खूब as any personal कारोबार, investment, or other kinds of income प्राप्त routinely.
While inflation-adjusted ( `` रियल '' ) household आय था महरूम increasing almost every year from 1945 to 1999, it रै चूंकि been चपटा and भी decreased recently.
u.S. median household income fell from $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011.
चरम गरीबी in the United States, meaning households जीना on कम than $ 2 per day before government benefits, doubled इससे 1996 to 1.5 लाख households in 2011, including 2.8 million children.
The residents of the household do नहीं have to be सम्बन्धित to the head of the household for their आय to be considered भाग of the household 's income.
As households tend to share a समान economic कॉन्टेक्स्ट, the उपयोग of household आय remains among the सबसे widely स्वीकृत measures of आय.
कि the size of a household is not commonly लिया into account in ऐसे measures may विकृत कोई विश्लेषण of fluctuations भीतर or among the household income categories, और may रेंडर direct comparisons between quintiles मुश्किल or even नामुमकिन.
a पंजीकृत एजेंट, भी ज्ञात as a निवासी एजेंट or statutory agent, in संयुक्त States business law, is a कारोबार or व्यक्तिगत designated to receive सेवा of process ( sop ) when a कारोबार entity is a party in a legal action such as a मुकदमा or समन.
The registered एजेंट 's address may also be where the राज्य होगा send the paperwork for the yearly नवीकरण of the कारोबार एंटिटी 's charter.
The पंजीकृत agent for a कारोबार एंटिटी may be an individual member of the कम्पनी, or ( अधिक प्रायः ) a तीसरा पार्टी, such as the organization 's lawyer or a सेवा company.
विफलता to properly maintain a registered agent can affect a कम्पनी negatively.
Office for आपात प्रबन्धन.
Office of युद्ध Information war poster 1941 - 1945
`` जीवन, स्वतंत्रता, और the pursuit of Happiness '' is a well-known phrase in the United राज्य घोषणा of Independence.
The phrase is meant to exemplify the `` unalienable rights '' साथ which सब human beings हैं endowed by their creator for उनके protection of which they संस्थान सरकारें.
तलवारबाजी, is typically विभाजित into ओलम्पिक fencing, शास्त्रीय fencing and historical तलवारबाजी,.
The खेल of fencing ( commonly called ओलम्पिक fencing or competitive fencing ) is divided into three हथियार categories : foil, sabre and épée.
Classical fencing uses the same three हथियार, लकिन approaches fencing as a martial आर्ट.
प्रतिस्पर्धी तलवारबाजी is एक of five खेल which रै महरूम प्रदर्शित at प्रत्येक एक of the आधुनिक Olympic Games, the other four being Athletics, साइकिलिंग, Swimming, and Gymnastics.
The quadriceps femoris ( Latin लिये `` four-headed मांसपेशी of the femur `` ), भी पुकारा simply the quadriceps, quadriceps extensor, quads, is a विशाल muscle group that शामिल the चार प्रचलित मांसपेशियां on the front of the जांघ.
it is the great extensor मांसपेशी of the knee, forming a विशाल fleshy mass जिससे कवर the front and पहलू of the femur.
The proper Latin plural form of the adjective quadriceps would be quadricipites.
In modern English usage, quadriceps is used in both एकवचन और बहुवचन.
The singular रूप quadricep, उत्पादित by hypercorrection, is frequently used.
rms टाइटैनिक was a अंग्रेजों यात्री लाइनर that sank in the North Atlantic समंदर on 15 April 1912 बाद colliding साथ an iceberg दौरान her maiden voyage from Southampton, uk to New York नगर, US.
The डूब of Titanic caused the deaths of 1,502 लोगों in एक of the deadliest peacetime maritime आपदाओं in modern history.
The rms Titanic was the largest ship afloat at the time of उसके maiden voyage.
वो was the दूसरी of three ओलम्पिक क्लास ocean liners operated by the White Star Line, और she थी built by the harland और Wolff shipyard in belfast साथ Thomas Andrews, जो perished with the जलयान, as उसके नवल architect.
on उसके maiden voyage, वो carried 2,224 passengers and crew.
अंतर्गत the कमांड of एडवर्ड Smith, उसके यात्री included कुछ of the wealthiest people in the संसार, as खूब as सैंकड़ों of emigrants from Great Britain और आयरलैंड, Scandinavia and elsewhere throughout Europe seeking a नई जीवन in North America.
the जलयान थी designed to be the पिछला शब्द in सुकून and लक्ज़री, साथ an on-board gymnasium, तैराकी पूल, पुस्तकालयों, high-class रेस्तरां and opulent केबिन.
She भी था a शक्तिशाली wireless telegraph provided लिये the convenience of यात्री as well as लिये operational use.
Though she had उन्नत safety सुविधाएँ ऐसे as watertight compartments and remotely activated watertight doors, she lacked enough lifeboats to accommodate all of those सवार.
क्युकी of outdated मेरीटाइम safety regulations, she carried तभी पर्याप्त lifeboats for 1,178 people—slightly अधिक than half of the क्रमांक travelling on the maiden voyage, और one-third उसके कुल passenger and क्रू क्षमता.
After leaving southampton on 10 April 1912, Titanic पुकारा at Cherbourg in फ़्रांस और Queenstown ( now Cobh ) in आयरलैंड पहले heading westwards towards नई York.
on 14 April 1912, four दिनों into the क्रासिंग and परिचय 375 miles ( 600 km ) south of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड, she hit an हिमशैल at 11:40 pm ship 's time.
the glancing collision caused Titanics hull प्लेटों to बकल inwards along उसके स्टारबोर्ड पक्ष और opened five of उसके सोलह watertight compartments to the sea ; the ship धीरे भर with water.
meanwhile, यात्री and some crew सदस्यों were evacuated in lifeboats, many of which यहूद launched तभी partly loaded.
A disproportionate क्रमांक of मेन यहूद बाएँ aboard because of a `` women and children first `` protocol followed by some of the officers लदान the lifeboats.
By 2:20 am, वो broke अलावा और foundered, साथ खूब over one हजार लोगों स्टिल सवार.
Just under two hours बाद the टाइटैनिक foundered, the Cunard लाइनर RMS Carpathia arrived on the scene of the sinking, जहाँ she brought aboard an अनुमानित 705 survivors.
The विपत्ति was greeted with worldwide शॉक और outrage at the विशाल loss of जीवन and the regulatory and operational failures that had led to it.
Public inquiries in Britain and the संयुक्त राज्य led to major improvements in मेरीटाइम safety.
One of their सबसे important legacies थी the establishment in 1914 of the International Convention लिये the Safety of Life at समुद्र ( solas ), which still governs मेरीटाइम सुरक्षा आज.
additionally, अनेक new wireless regulations यहूद passed around the संसार in an प्रयत्न to सीख from the अनेक missteps in बेतार communications -- -which could have saved अनेक more यात्री.
Many of the survivors खोया सब of उनके धन and possessions and यहूद बाएँ destitute ; अनेक families, विशेषकर those of क्रू members इससे southampton, lost their प्राथमिक bread-winners.
वे यहूद helped by an outpouring of public sympathy और charitable donations.
कुछ of the पुरूष survivors were accused of cowardice लिये leaving the जलयान while लोगों यहूद still on फलक ; the White Star Line 's अध्यक्ष, J. Bruce Ismay, faced social ostracism लिये the बाकी of उसके life.
The wreck of the Titanic remains on the समुद्रतल, split in two and gradually disintegrating at a depth of.
चूंकि its डिस्कवरी in 1985, हज़ारों of artefacts have been recovered और put on प्रदर्शक at museums around the संसार.
Titanic has become एक of the most famous ships in इतिहास, उसके मेमोरी kept जिंदा by numerous किताबे, folk songs, films, exhibits, और memorials.
the इंसान leg is the संपूर्ण lower extremity or limb of the इंसान body, including the foot, जांघ और भी the हिप or gluteal region ; however, the precise definition in human anatomy refers तभी to the खण्ड of the lower limb extending from the घुटना to the ankle.
Legs हैं प्रयुक्त for standing, walking, कूद, कार्यशील, kicking, और similar क्रियाएँ, और constitute a significant portion of a व्यक्ति 's द्रव्यमान.
This आलेख is परिचय the demographic features of the population of तुर्कों, including जनसांख्यिकी density, नस्ल, education level, health of the populace, आर्थिक status, religious संबद्धों and other पहलुओं of the population.
as of 2010, the population of Turkey is अनुमानित to be 73.7 लाख with a growth rate of 1.21 % प्रति annum ( 2009 फिगर ).
the जनसांख्यिकी is relatively यंग साथ 26.6 % falling in the 0-14 आयु bracket.
According to the OECD/World बैंको population आंकडे in Turkey the population विकास from 1990 to 2008 was 16 लाख or 29 %.
1998 BMW 750il
बुइक Roadmaster
a full-size car is a marketing पद प्रयुक्त in North अमेरिका for an ऑटोमोबाइल larger than a mid-size car.
In the संयुक्त States, the EPA उपयोग the term `` large car '' to denote full-size गाड़ियाँ.
Joel Grey ( born April 11, 1932 ) is an अमरीकी stage और screen actor, सिंगर, और नर्तकी, known for his भूमिका as the निपुण of Ceremonies in दोनो the स्टेज और film adaptation of the Kander & Ebb musical कैबरे.
he रै जीती the अकादमी Award, टोनी Award and सुनहरी Globe पुरस्कार.
He भी originated the role of जार्ज M. cohan in the musical जार्ज M !
in 1973, the जादूगर in the musical Wicked.
धूसर also स्ट्रक्चर in the ब्रॉडवे revivals of Anything Goes as Moonface मार्टिन, and शिकागो as Amos हार्ट.
James मैडिसन, jr. ( March 16, 1751 ( o.s. कूच 5 ) – जून 28, 1836 ) थी an अमरीकी statesman and political theorist, the चौथी President of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1809–1817 ).
He is hailed as the “father of the constitution” लिये being instrumental in the drafting of the संयुक्त States Constitution and as the कुंजी champion and लेखक of the संयुक्त राज्य Bill of अधिकारों.
He परोसा as a राजनेता much of उसके adult जीवन.
बाद the संविधान had महरूम drafted, Madison became एक of the leaders in the movement to ratify it.
उसके collaboration with Alexander Hamilton and John Jay उत्पादित the federalist Papers ( 1788 ).
Circulated only in नई यॉर्क at the समय, वे होता later be माना among the most important polemics in support of the संविधान.
He was भी a प्रतिनिधि to the वर्जिनिया संवैधानिक ratifying convention, और थी इंस्ट्रूमेंटल to the successful अनुसमर्थन effort in Virginia.
Like most of उसके contemporaries, मैडिसन बदला his राजनैतिक दृश्य दौरान his life.
दौरान the drafting और ratification of the constitution, he favored a दमदार national सरकारी, हालांकि बाद he grew to favor stronger राज्य सरकारें, before settling between the दो extremes लेट in his life.
in 1789, मैडिसन became a leader in the नई हाउस of Representatives, drafting many मौलिक कानून.
he is notable for drafting the first ten amendments to the Constitution, और thus is ज्ञात as the `` Father of the विधेयक of अधिकारों ``.
Madison worked closely with President George वॉशिंगटन to organize the नई संघीय government.
तोड़कर साथ हैमिल्टन and कया became the federalist Party in 1791, मैडिसन और थामस Jefferson व्यवस्थित कया वे called the Republican पार्टी ( later called by इतिहासकारों the Democratic-Republican पार्टी )
as jefferson’s Secretary of राज्य ( 1801–1809 ), Madison पर्यवेक्षित the Louisiana खरीदें, जिससे doubled the nation’s size.
बाद his election to the प्रेसिडेंसी, he presided over नवीनीकृत prosperity for अनेक सालो.
As president ( 1809–17 ), बाद the विफलता of राजनयिक विरोध और a व्यापार embargo against Great Britain, he led the nation into the युद्ध of 1812.
he was responding to अंग्रेजों encroachments on अमरीकी honor and rights ; in addition, he wanted to समाप्त the influence of the British among उनके Indian allies, whose resistance अवरोधित United राज्य उपनिवेश in the Midwest around the ग्रेट झीलों.
मैडिसन found the युद्ध to be an administrative nightmare, as the संयुक्त States had neither a strong फौज nor वित्तीय system ; as a result, he afterward समर्थित a stronger नेशनल government और a दमदार military, as खूब as the national बैंको, जिससे he had long opposed.
जैसे अन्य Virginia कूटनीतिज्ञों in the slave society, he was a slaveholder जो inherited his वृक्षारोपण ज्ञात as Montpelier, and owned hundreds of slaves during his lifetime to cultivate तम्बाकू और other crops.
मैडिसन supported the three-fifths compromise that अनुमत three-fifths of the enumerated population of स्लेव to be counted for प्रतिनिधित्व.
`` रोमन 's Revenge '' is a सोंग performed by American rapper Nicki minaj इससे उसके debut स्टुडियो album Pink शुक्रवार.
it थी लिखा by Minaj और rapper एमिनेम, who is भी featured in the song, और थी उत्पादित by swizz Beatz.
It थी released exclusively on October 30, 2010 through the US itunes स्टोर, as a promotional रिलीज preceding the एल्बम 's release.
the song initiated a feud between लील ' Kim and Minaj, where अनेक लोगों लगा the song थी directed at लील ' Kim और regarded around उसके जज्बात towards minaj 's वृद्धि to fame.
the song references Minaj 's alter-ego, रोमन Zolanski, and एमिनेम 's alter-ego, पतला Shady.
The song garnered बहुत धनात्मक reviews इससे आलोचकों, most of जिससे praised the song as a stand-out track on the एल्बम.
An आधिकारिक remix featuring Minaj 's mentor, Lil Wayne, was released to the us itunes Store on January 19, 2011.
The इंस्ट्रूमेंटल थी प्रयुक्त in the सोंग 'firing स्क्वाड ' by Horseshoe g.a.n.g.
हाइड्रोलिक fluid being poured.
हाइड्रोलिक fluids, भी पुकारा हाइड्रोलिक liquids, are the medium by which power is transferred in hydraulic machinery.
Common hydraulic fluids are आधारित on mineral आयल or water.
Examples of equipment that might use हाइड्रोलिक fluids शामिल excavators and backhoes, हाइड्रोलिक brakes, शक्ति steering systems, transmissions, garbage ट्रक, वायुयान उड़ान कंट्रोल प्रणालियों, lifts, और industrial मशीनरी.
Hydraulic प्रणालियों जैसे the ones उल्लेखित ऊपर will कार्य most efficiently if the हाइड्रोलिक द्रव used रै no compressibility
Mahindra Tractor
महिंद्रा Tractors, the farm उपकरण division of महिंद्रा & महिंद्रा, builds और sources tractors that are बेची विश्वव्यापी आरपार छह continents.
महिंद्रा is also among the शीर्ष तीन ट्रैक्टर manufacturers in the world.
महिंद्रा रै a विशाल consumer base in India, चीन and अमेरिका और a growing आधार in Australia.
the company builds अधिक tractors in इण्डिया than कोई other निर्माता, और रै the क्षमता to build 150,000 tractors a साल.
In 1963, m & M formed a संयुक्त venture with International Harvester to manufacture tractors carrying the Mahindra nameplate लिये the Indian market.
हथियारबंद साथ engineering, tooling और निर्माण know-how gained from this relationship, m & m developed its first ट्रैक्टर, the B-275.
महिंद्रा tractors साथ sales of nearly 85,000 इकाई annually is एक of the largest tractor companies in the world, and is number one in sales in India - the largest tractor मार्केट in the world.
To विस्तार into the growing tractor मार्केट in China, महिंद्रा acquired majority stake in Jiangling.
To raise awareness about Mahindra in the us, महिंद्रा USA announced इसके new प्रायोजन in the nascar देशभर Series with r3 Motorsports, which is participating साथ a # 23 Mahindra Tractors शेवरलेट.
The car will be driven by रॉबर्ट Richardson, jr. Mahindra USA, inc. घोषित a 17-race प्राथमिक and 18-race associate प्रायोजन लिये the 2009 NASCAR Nationwide श्रेणी.
साथ इस प्रायोजन, Mahindra थी the पहला Indian company to sponsor a car in nascar.
in 2008, Mahindra was a प्रायोजक of the McDonald मोटरस्पोर्ट टोली which भागा the # 81 car in the nascar देशभर Series.
The POWER6 is a microprocessor developed by IBM that implemented the शक्ति isa v.2.03.
जब it became उपलब्धियाँ in systems in 2007, it succeeded the शक्ति5+ as ibm 's flagship शक्ति माइक्रोप्रोसेसर.
it is part of the eCLipz प्रोजेक्ट, कहा to have a goal of converging IBM 's server हार्डवेयर जहाँ practical ( hence `` ipz '' in the एक्रोनिम : iSeries, pseries, और zseries ).
the American मध्य क्लास is a सोशल class in the United राज्य.
जबकि the अवधारणा is typically ambiguous in लोकप्रिय opinion और common language use, contemporary सोशल scientists have put आगे अनेक, more or less congruent, theories on the American middle class.
depending on क्लास model प्रयुक्त, the मध्य class may constitute anywhere इससे 25 % to 66 % of households.
एक of the first major अध्ययन of the middle क्लास in अमेरिका थी श्वेत कॉलर : the अमरीकी Middle वर्ग, प्रकाशित in 1951 by sociologist C. राइट Wright_Mills Mills Wright_Mills.
Later sociologists ऐसे as Dennis गिल्बर्ट of Hamilton कॉलेज commonly divide the मध्य class into दो sub-groups.
constituting roughly 15 % to 20 % of households is the अपर or पेशेवर मध्य क्लास consisting of अत्यधिक educated, वेतनभोगी professionals और managers.
Constituting roughly one तीसरा of households is the निम्नतर middle क्लास consisting ज़्यादातर of semi-professionals, skilled कारीगरों and lower-level management.
Middle-class व्यक्तियों commonly have a आरामदायक मानक of living, significant आर्थिक सुरक्षा, considerable कार्य autonomy and rely on their expertise to sustain themselves.
Members of the मध्य क्लास belong to विविध groups which overlap साथ प्रत्येक अन्य.
overall, middle-class persons, विशेषकर upper-middle-class individuals, हैं characterized by conceptualizing, creating और परामर्श.
Thus, college शिक्षा is one of the प्रमुख indicators of middle-class औकात.
largely attributed to the nature of middle-class occupations, मध्य class मान tend to emphasize independence, adherence to मूलभूत मानकों, valuing innovation और respecting non-conformity.
Politically more क्रियाशील than other demographics, कॉलेज शिक्षित मध्य क्लास पेशेवर हैं विभाजित between the two major parties.
Income varies considerably from निकट the national median to खूब in excess of $ 100,000.
Household income figures, however, do नहीं सदा प्रतिबिंबित क्लास औकात and standard of जीना, as they are largely बहकावे by the क्रमांक of income earners and fail to recognize household आकार.
it is इसलिए संभावित for a विशाल, dual-earner, lower middle क्लास household to out-earn a small, one-earner, upper मध्य class household.
the मध्य classes are very influential, as they encompass the बहुमत of voters, लेखक, शिक्षक, journalists, and editors.
Most societal रुझान in the US originate भीतर the मध्य वर्ग.
The following is a list of शनिवार Night Live cast members, past and present.
The cast members of शनिवार Night Live यहूद originally referred to as the `` नहीं Ready For Prime समय खिलाड़ी ''.
the original cast ( l to r ) : laraine Newman, जॉन Belushi, Jane कर्टिन, Gilda Radner, Dan aykroyd, Garrett मॉरिस, and चेवी Chase
तबाह इससे the 1906 सैन फ्रांसिस्को भूकंप, remembered as one of the worst प्राकृतिक disasters in संयुक्त राज्य इतिहास
a विपत्ति is a प्राकृतिक or man-made ( or technological ) hazard resulting in an event of substantial extent causing significant शारीरिक क्षति or destruction, loss of जीवन, or drastic बदलें to the environment.
a विपत्ति can be ostensively पारिभाषित as कोई tragic इवेंट stemming इससे events such as earthquakes, floods, catastrophic accidents, फ़ायर, or explosions.
It is a घटना कि can cause damage to life और property और destroy the economic, social और सांस्कृतिक life of people.
in समकालीन academia, disasters हैं seen as the consequence of inappropriately प्रबंधित रिस्क.
These risks हैं the product of a combination of दोनो hazard/s और vulnerability.
Hazards कि स्ट्राइक in areas साथ कम vulnerability will never become disasters, as is the case in uninhabited regions.
Developing देशों suffer the greatest costs when a विपत्ति हिट्स – अधिक than 95 percent of सब मौतों caused by disasters occur in विकासशील countries, and losses due to natural disasters हैं 20 टाइम्स वृहद ( as a प्रतिशत of जीडीपी ) in developing देशों than in industrialized देशों.
In कम्प्यूटिंग, booting ( also ज्ञात as booting up ) is the initial नियत of परिचालन that a कंप्यूटर प्रणाली performs जब विद्युत power to the CPU is switched on.
the process begins when a computer is turned on for the पहला समय or is re-energized after being turned बंद, और ends when the कंप्यूटर is ready to perform its normal परिचालन.
On modern general purpose computers, this can take tens of seconds और typically involves performing a power-on self-test, locating और initializing peripheral डिवाइस, और then finding, लदान और starting an operating प्रणाली.
अनेक कंप्यूटर प्रणालियों भी allow these operations to be initiated by a तन्त्र command बगैर cycling power, in what is known as a soft रिबूट, हालांकि कुछ of the initial परिचालन might be छोड़ा on a soft रिबूट.
A boot लोडर is a कंप्यूटर program that loads the main operating प्रणाली or runtime environment for the कंप्यूटर after completion of the self-tests.
The कंप्यूटर पद बूट is छोटी लिये बूटस्ट्रैप or bootstrap load और derives from the phrase to खींचो oneself up by one 's bootstraps.
the उपयोग calls attention to the आवश्यकता that, if सबसे software is loaded onto a computer by other तन्त्र already कार्यशील on the computer, some यांत्रिकी जरूर मौजूद to लोड initial software onto the कंप्यूटर.
Early computers प्रयुक्त a variety of ad-hoc विधि to get a छोटी program into memory to solve this प्रॉब्लम.
the आविष्कार of integrated सर्किट read-only memory ( rom ) of various types solved इस paradox by allowing computers to be shipped साथ a start up program कि could नहीं be erased.
विकास in the capacity of rom has अनुमत कभी अधिक विस्तृत start up procedures to be implemented.
on general purpose computers, the boot process begins with the execution of an initial कार्यक्रम भंडारित in boot ROMs or पढ़ा in another fashion.
in some पुरानी computers, the आरंभिक program might have been the अनुप्रयोग to run, if no ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली was प्रयुक्त, or the ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली.
In other computers, the initial program is a boot loader कि may then लोड into random-access मेमोरी ( राम ), इससे nonvolatile द्वितीयक भंडार ( ऐसे as a मुश्किल disk ड्राइव ) or, in some older कंप्यूटर, from a मीडियम ऐसे as punched ताश, punched tape, or magnetic टेप in पुरानी computers, the binary code of an operating system or runtime environment and तब execute it.
if the boot लोडर is limited in its size and सामर्थ्य, it may, instead, load a larger and अधिक capable secondary बूट लोडर, जिससे would तब लोड the ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली or runtime environment.
कुछ अंतःस्थापित प्रणालियों do नहीं आवश्यकता a noticeable बूट अनुक्रम to शुरू functioning and when turned on may simply run operational programs कि are भंडारित in ROM.
firebird is an खोलें सोर्स एसक्यूएल relational database management प्रणाली that runs on Linux, Windows, and a variety of Unix.
the database forked from Borland 's खोलें source edition of InterBase in 2000, but चूंकि Firebird 1.5 the code रै been largely rewritten.
आउटसोर्सिंग is the contracting आउट of an आतंरिक business process to a third-party संगठन.
the practice of contracting a कारोबार process out to a third party बल्कि than staffing it internally is common in the आधुनिक economy.
the पद `` outsourcing '' became popular in the संयुक्त राज्य near the फेरे of the 21st सदी.
आउटसोर्सिंग sometimes involves transferring कर्मचारी and एसेट from एक firm to another, लकिन not always.
The परिभाषा of आउटसोर्सिंग includes both विदेशी और domestic contracting, और sometimes includes offshoring, जिससे अर्थात् relocating a कारोबार function to another देश.
वित्तीय savings इससे निम्नतर अंतरराष्ट्रीय labor दरों is a big motivation for outsourcing/offshoring.
The opposite of outsourcing is called insourcing, जिससे entails bringing processes handled by third-party firms in-house, और is sometimes संपन्नता via लंबवत integration.
However, a कारोबार can provide a अनुबंध service to another कारोबार without necessarily insourcing कि business process.
इंसान immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) is a lentivirus ( धीरे replicating retrovirus ) that कल्याणकारी acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( AIDS ), a कंडीशन in इंसानो in which progressive विफलता of the immune प्रणाली allows life-threatening opportunistic infections and cancers to thrive.
संक्रमण with HIV occurs by the transfer of रक्त, वीर्य, vaginal द्रव, pre-ejaculate, or breast milk.
Within these bodily fluids, hiv is present as दोनो फ़्री वायरस particles और virus भीतर infected immune कोशिकाएं.
hiv infects vital कोशिकाएं in the human प्रतिरक्षा system such as helper t cells ( specifically CD4 + T cells ), macrophages, and dendritic cells.
HIV infection लीड to कम levels of cd4+ T cells through a number of mechanisms including : apoptosis of uninfected bystander कोशिकाएं, direct वाइरल killing of संक्रमित cells, और killing of infected cd4+ T कोशिकाएं by cd8 cytotoxic lymphocytes कि recognize संक्रमित cells.
When CD4+ T cell संख्याएँ decline नीचे a critical level, cell-mediated immunity is lost, और the देह becomes progressively अधिक susceptible to opportunistic infections.
the firepole in a fire station in टोरंटो
a फायरमैन 's pole ( भी पुकारा a स्लाइडिंग ध्रुव or firepole ) is a wooden ध्रुव or a मेटल ट्यूब or pipe संस्थापित between floors in आग stations, allowing firefighters responding to an सचेतक to quickly descend to the ground मंजिल तेज़ than by using a मानक staircase.
the device थी invented in the 1870s by David Kenyon, in Chicago, Illinois, although it is प्रायः incorrectly credited to the बोस्टन आग Department.
मरियम poppins is the title अक्षर of a श्रेणी of children 's किताबे लिखा by P. L. Travers.
throughout the Mary poppins श्रेणी, which lasted इससे 1934 to 1988, मरियम Shepard was the इलस्ट्रेटर और acted as a second author.
The books केन्द्र on a magical अंग्रेज़ी nanny, Mary Poppins.
She is blown by the ईस्ट हवा to क्रमांक सत्रह Cherry Tree लेन, लंदन, and into the बैंको ' household to care for उनके children.
Encounters with चिमनी sweeps, दुकानदारों and विभिन्न adventures follow until Mary Poppins abruptly leaves, i.e., `` pops-out ''.
The adventures लो प्लेस over a कुल of आठ books.
however, only the first three books feature Mary Poppins arriving और leaving.
the later पाँच किताबे recount previously unrecorded adventures इससे her असली तीन visits.
as P. L. Travers explains in उसके परिचय to मरियम poppins in the Park, `` वो can नहीं forever arrive and depart. ''
The books यहूद adapted in 1964 into a musical Disney film starring जूली Andrews and Dick Van Dyke.
In 2004, डिज़्नी नाट्य उत्पादित a स्टेज musical अनुकूलन in the वेस्ट End थिएटर.
The stage musical was transferred to ब्रॉडवे in 2006 जहाँ it ran until its closing on March 3, 2013.
It has महरूम highly successful, as थी the 1964 फिल्मी.
The Last सोंग is a 2010 American coming of आयु टीन romantic नाटक फिल्मी विकसित alongside निकोलस स्पार्क्स ' अनोखा by the same name.
The फिल्मी थी निर्देशित by Julie ऐनी Robinson in her विशेषता film directorial डेब्यू और co-written by Sparks और Jeff वैन wie.
the पिछला Song stars Miley सायरस, Liam Hemsworth, और Greg Kinnear and follows a troubled किशोरावस्था as वो reconnects साथ her estranged father और falls in love दौरान a गर्मियाँ in a quiet Southern संयुक्त राज्य बीच कस्बा.
the film is वितरित by touchstone तस्वीरें.
Sparks थी approached to write both the फिल्मी 's पटकथा और the novel.
स्पार्क्स completed the screenplay in January 2009, prior to the completion of the novel, making the पिछला Song उसके first script to be optioned for film.
The setting, originally in North कैरोलिना like the novel, moved to जॉर्जिया बाद the राज्य था campaigned लिये महीने to मेजबान production.
Upon beginning उत्पादन in tybee द्वीप, जॉर्जिया and आसपास savannah, The Last Song became the पहला फिल्म to be दोनो शॉट और नियत in tybee द्वीप.
फिल्मांकन lasted from जून 15 to August 18, 2009 with much of it occurring on the island 's बीच और बांध.
the पिछला Song थी originally अनुसूचित लिये चौड़ी रिलीज on January 8, 2010, but was स्थगित to March 31, 2010.
Written Simlish
Simlish is a fictional language प्रदर्शित in EA Games ' Sim श्रेणी of खेल.
It debuted in SimCopter, और रै been especially prominent in the Sims, The Sims 2 और The Sims 3.
The Sims development team created the unique Simlish भाषा by experimenting with fractured Ukrainian, फ्रेंच, Latin, Finnish, English, Fijian, सेबुआनो, और tagalog.
simlish can भी be heard in simcity 4, SimCity Societies and simcity 2013, लकिन far कम अक्सर.
Civilized Creatures in spore can भी be taught to बोलो simlish.
It is भी featured to an extent in Firaxis खेल ' सिड Meier 's simgolf.
Designer Will Wright was conscious of the need लिये संवाद in the game, but thought that using a रियल language would मेक it ध्वनि too repetitive और होता भी be too costly to hire अनुवादक लिये संसार भाषाएं.
initially, inspired by the देशी अमरीकी code talkers of World War II, सीम निर्माता होगा राइट and language विशेषज्ञ मार्क gimbel suggested experimenting साथ the navajo language to बनाएँ simlish.
however, they ultimately decided कि simlish worked बेहतरीन as a `` language '' made up of gibberish words कि could n't be अनूदित, so that its अर्थ would be बाएँ open to the कल्पना of the player.
Wright later commented that using `` nonsense भाषा '' turned out to be the right development choice, as लोगों यहूद सक्षम of imagining it more realistically than a computer could simulate a real one.
The actual sound of Simlish was created improvisationally by आवाज़ अभिनेताओं Stephen Kearin और Gerri Lawlor.
An उदाहरण of अल्ट्रासोनिक परीक्षण ( UT ) on blade जड़ें of a v2500 IAE aircraft इंजन.
Step 1 : the UT probe is लगाई on the रूट of the ब्लेड to be inspected with the सहायता of a special borescope औजार ( वीडियो probe ).
Step 2 : यंत्र जमावट are input.
कदम 3 : The जांच is scanned over the blade root.
In इस case, an indication ( peak in the data ) through the red line ( or फाटक ) indicates a good ब्लेड ; an indication to the बाएँ of कि range indicates a crack.
Principle of अल्ट्रासोनिक परीक्षण.
बाएँ : a probe भेजना a ध्वनि wave into a परीक्षण सामग्री.
There are two indications, one इससे the initial pulse of the probe, and the second due to the back wall echo.
सही : A defect creates a तीसरा indication and simultaneously reduces the आयाम of the back वॉल indication.
the गहराई of the defect is determined by the अनुपात d/e
In अल्ट्रासोनिक परीक्षण ( ut ), बहुत short अल्ट्रासोनिक pulse-waves with बीच frequencies ranging इससे 0.1-15 MHz and occasionally up to 50 mhz हैं शुभारम्भ into materials to detect आतंरिक खामियां or to characterize materials.
a common example is अल्ट्रासोनिक thickness measurement, जिससे परीक्षण the thickness of the test ऑब्जेक्ट, लिये उदाहरण, to मॉनिटर pipework संक्षारण.
Ultrasonic परीक्षण is often performed on steel and अन्य metals और alloys, हालांकि it can भी be used on कंक्रीट, wood और composites, albeit with कम रेज़ोल्यूशन.
It is a form of non-destructive परीक्षण used in अनेक उद्योग including aerospace, ऑटोमोटिव और other परिवहन सेक्टर.
the vas deferens ( बहुवचन : vasa deferentia ), भी पुकारा ductus deferens ( Latin : `` carrying-away vessel '' ; बहुवचन : ductus deferentes ), is भाग of the male anatomy of many vertebrates ; वे transport sperm इससे the epididymis in पुट of ejaculation.
Vascular ischemia of the toes with characteristic cyanosis.
in आयुर्विज्ञान, ischemia, भी spelled as ischaemia or ischæmia, ( ; इससे यूनानी भाषा ισχαιμία, ischaimía ; isch- रूट denoting a restriction or thinning or to make or grow thin/lean, haema रक्त ) is a restriction in रक्त supply to tissues, causing a shortage of oxygen and ग्लूकोज needed लिये cellular चयापचय ( to keep ऊतक alive ).
ischemia is generally caused by समस्याएं with blood बरतन, साथ resultant damage to or dysfunction of tissue.
it भी अर्थात् लोकल anemia in a दिए भाग of a देह sometimes resulting इससे जमघट ( ऐसे as vasoconstriction, घनास्रता or embolism ).
Down syndrome ( DS ) or bas 's syndrome, also known as trisomy 21, is a genetic disorder caused by the presence of all or भाग of a तीसरा copy of chromosome 21.
bas syndrome is the सबसे आम chromosome abnormality in इंसानो.
it is typically associated with a delay in संज्ञानात्मक क्षमता ( mental retardation, or mr ) and physical growth, और a particular नियत of facial characteristics.
the average iq of यंग वयस्कों with bas सिंड्रोम is around 50, whereas young adults without the condition typically have an IQ of 100.
( mr रै historically महरूम defined as an iq below 70. )
a विशाल proportion of individuals with bas सिंड्रोम have a कठोर degree of intellectual विकलांगता.
Down syndrome is named after जॉन Langdon Down, the British चिकित्सक who वर्णित the syndrome in 1866.
the कंडीशन थी clinically described पहले by जां etienne dominique Esquirol in 1838 और Edouard Seguin in 1844.
bas syndrome was पहचाना as a chromosome 21 trisomy by Dr. jérôme lejeune in 1959.
bas syndrome can be identified in a baby at birth or पहले birth by prenatal screening.
Pregnancies with this diagnosis are often terminated.
The सीडीसी estimates that परिचय एक of every 691 babies born in the United States each साल is born साथ Down syndrome.
अनेक children साथ bas syndrome हैं educated in नियमित स्कूल वर्ग while अन्य आवश्यकता specialised educational सुविधाएं.
Some children ग्रैजुएट from ऊँची स्कूल, और, in the us, वहीँ are increasing opportunities for participating in post-secondary शिक्षा.
Education और उचित care रै महरूम दिखाया to improve विशेषता of जीवन significantly.
अनेक adults साथ bas Syndrome are able to कार्य at सशुल्क employment in the जातियाँ, जबकि others आवश्यकता a more sheltered work environment.
hot flashes ( also known as hot flushes, or night sweats if they happen at रात्रि ) हैं a लक्षण जिससे may have अनेक अन्य causes, लकिन which is प्रायः caused by the बदलना hormone स्तर that हैं characteristic of रजोनिवृत्ति.
the Servicemen 's Readjustment अधिनियम of 1944 ( p.l. 78-346, 58 Stat. 284m ), ज्ञात informally as the G.I. Bill, थी a विधि that provided a range of लाभ for returning संसार War ii veterans ( commonly referred to as g.i.s ).
Benefits शामिल low-cost mortgages, low-interest लोन to प्रारंभ a कारोबार or farm, नकदी भुगतान of ट्यूशन and जीना expenses to attend कॉलेज, ऊँची स्कूल or vocational शिक्षा, as खूब as एक year of unemployment compensation.
It थी उपलब्धियाँ to प्रत्येक दिग्गज who had been on क्रियाशील duty during the war सालो for at तनिक ninety दिनों and had नहीं महरूम dishonorably discharged ; combat थी not जरूरी.
By the end of the कार्यक्रम in 1956, roughly 2.2 million veterans had प्रयुक्त the g.i. Bill education benefits in अनुक्रम to attend colleges or universities, और an additional 6.6 लाख used these benefits लिये कुछ kind of प्रशिक्षण program.
Since the original 1944 law, the पद रै आइये to शामिल other दिग्गज benefit programs निर्मित to assist veterans of subsequent युद्धों as खूब as peacetime सेवा.
इतिहासकारों and अर्थशास्त्रियों consider the g.i. Bill a प्रमुख राजनैतिक success—especially in कंट्रास्ट to the treatments of संसार War i veterans—and a major contribution to America 's भण्डार of human पूंजी that sped long-term economic growth.
the Watergate scandal was a political scandal that occurred in the United राज्य in the 1970s as a परिणाम of the जून 17, 1972 break-in at the Democratic नेशनल कमेटी headquarters at the वाटरगेट office जटिल in वॉशिंगटन, D.C., and the निक्सन प्रशासन 's attempted cover-up of its involvement.
The scandal eventually led to the इस्तीफा of Richard Nixon, the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, on August 9, 1974 — the only resignation of a U.S. President.
The scandal भी resulted in the indictment, विचारण, conviction, and incarceration of forty-three persons, dozens of whom were निक्सन 's शीर्ष प्रशासन officials.
The affair began साथ the arrest of five मेन लिये तोड़कर and entering into the Democratic National Committee ( dnc ) मुख्यालय at the Watergate जटिल on जून 17, 1972.
the Federal ब्यूरो of Investigation ( FBI ) connected नकदी मिला on the burglars to a slush fund used by the कमेटी लिये the Re-Election of the President, the आधिकारिक organization of Nixon 's अभियान.
in जुलाई 1973, as प्रमाण mounted विरूद्ध the president 's स्टाफ, सहित testimony provided by former स्टाफ सदस्यों in an investigation conducted by the Senate वाटरगेट कमेटी, it थी revealed that अध्यक्ष निक्सन था a tape-recording system in उसके offices और he था recorded अनेक conversations.
रिकार्डिंग from ये टेपों implicated the president, revealing he था attempted to कवर up the questionable ( and illegal ) goings-on that had taken place during his प्रशासन, दोनो पहले and after the break-in.
After a protracted श्रेणी of कड़वा court battles, the U.S. परम् Court unanimously ruled कि the president था to हाथ over the tapes to government investigators ; he ultimately complied.
facing near-certain महाभियोग in the House of Representatives and a strong सम्भावना of a conviction in the सीनेट, Nixon resigned the presidency on August 9, 1974.
उसके successor, जेराल्ड Ford, तब issued a pardon to him.
एलिज़ाबेथ imogene webber ( formerly lansing and Spencer ) is a fictional अक्षर on the एबीसी दिन soap opera General Hospital.
Elizabeth is the पोती of dr. स्टीव हार्डी ( John beradino ), one of the originating core वर्ण of the series.
Rebecca Herbst originated the अक्षर on August 1, 1997 and रै been the तभी contract अभिनेत्री to खेल the भूमिका.
एलिज़ाबेथ is भाग of दो supercouple pairings, Lucky Spencer और Elizabeth webber and Jason Morgan और एलिज़ाबेथ Webber.
the संयुक्त राज्य प्रेसिडेंसी of रोनाल्ड Reagan, also known as the Reagan administration, was a Republican administration headed by Ronald Reagan इससे January 20, 1981, to जनवरी 20, 1989.
Domestically, the प्रशासन favored reducing सरकारी programs और introduced the largest across-the-board कर कटौती in अमरीकी history.
the economic policies enacted in 1981, known as `` Reaganomics ``, were an उदाहरण of supply-side economics.
reagan aimed to प्रोत्साहित entrepreneurship and सीमा the growth of सोशल spending, as well as the reduction of regulation और inflation.
आर्थिक विकास saw a strong recovery in the 1980s, helping reagan to win a landslide re-election.
the national debt increased significantly, however.
Regarding विदेशी policy, the administration थी steadfastly anti-communist, calling the Soviet Union an `` evil empire `` and ending 1970s détente.
reagan accelerated the massive buildup of the military started by उसके predecessor, सहित an आक्रमण of हरा, the first major overseas action by u.S. सैनिकों since the end of the वियतनाम युद्ध.
The `` reagan Doctrine `` controversially granted aid to अर्धसैनिक forces seeking to फेकने communist सरकारें, particularly in war-torn Central America और अफगानिस्तान.
reagan also प्रचारित नई technologies ऐसे as मिसाइल रक्षा प्रणालियों in अनुक्रम to confront the soviets और उनके allies.
in कूटनीति, reagan forged a दमदार alliance with UK प्रधान Minister मार्गरेट थैचर, and he मिले with Soviet सामान्य Secretary मिखाइल गोर्बाचेव four टाइम्स, aiming to shrink the superpowers ' नाभिकीय arsenals.
Reagan 's प्रेसिडेंसी रै been termed the `` reagan Revolution '', or the Age of Reagan in मान्यता of the राजनैतिक realignment दोनो भीतर और beyond the u.S. in favor of his ब्रांड of conservatism and उसके faith in free बाज़ार.
The Reagan प्रशासन worked toward the collapse of Soviet Communism, और it did collapse बस as he बाएँ दफ्तर.
विजय in the ठंडा War led to a unipolar world with the U.S. as the संसार 's एकमात्र महाशक्ति.
जबकि the damaging Iran-Contra affair engulfed several reagan aides during उसके दूसरी पद, reagan खुद left दफ्तर साथ a 63 percent approval दरजा, one of the उच्चतर स्वीकृति ratings of दूँ presidents.
After सालो of unstinting praise इससे the सही, and unrelenting आलोचना इससे the left, historian दाउद हेनरी पाता कि by 2009 a consensus had emerged among विद्वानों कि reagan revived कोसा और turned the nation to the सही by demonstrating a `` pragmatic कोसा '' that प्रचारित ideology within the constraints imposed by the विभाजित राजनैतिक प्रणाली.
furthermore, says Henry, the consensus viewpoint agrees कि he revived आस्था in the presidency और American self-confidence, and contributed critically to समाप्ति the ठंडा War.
Crude मौत रेट by देश ( 2006 ).
मृत्यु रेट is a माप of the क्रमांक of deaths ( in सामान्य, or due to a विशिष्ट कारण ) in a जनसांख्यिकी.
Scaled to the आकार of that जनसांख्यिकी, प्रति ईकाई of time.
मृत्यु रेट is typically expressed in इकाई of deaths per 1000 individuals per year ; यूँ, a mortality रेट of 9.5 ( आउट of 1000 ) in a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,000 would औसत 9.5 deaths per साल in कि entire जनसांख्यिकी, or 0.95 % आउट of the total.
it is distinct from morbidity rate, which refers to the क्रमांक of individuals in ग़रीब स्वास्थ्य दौरान a दिए time period ( the व्यापकता rate ) or the क्रमांक of newly appearing मामले of the disease per ईकाई of time ( incidence रेट ).
the पद `` मृत्यु `` is भी sometimes inappropriately used to refer to the क्रमांक of deaths among a set of diagnosed हॉस्पिटल cases for a disease or injury, बल्कि than for the general population of a देश or जातीय समूह.
इस बीमारी mortality statistic is more precisely referred to as `` मामला fatality रेट `` ( CFR ).
एक distinguishes:
the crude death रेट, the कुल क्रमांक of deaths प्रति year per 1000 people.
the crude मौत रेट for the पूरे संसार is about 8.37 per 1000 per साल according to the वर्तमान CIA संसार Factbook.
The perinatal mortality रेट, the योग of neonatal deaths and fetal deaths ( stillbirths ) per 1000 births.
the मातृ mortality ratio, the number of मातृ मौतों प्रति 100,000 सजीव births in same time काल.
The मातृ मृत्यु rate, the number of maternal मौतों प्रति 1,000 महिलाओं of reproductive age in the जनसांख्यिकी ( generally defined as 15–44 सालो of age ).
The शिशु मृत्यु rate, the क्रमांक of deaths of children कम than 1 साल old per 1000 सजीव births.
The child mortality रेट, the क्रमांक of deaths of children less than 5 years old per 1000 सजीव births.
the standardised mortality अनुपात ( SMR ) - This represents a proportional तुलना to the संख्याएँ of deaths that would have been अपेक्षित if the population had महरूम of a standard संयोजन in terms of age, लिंग, इत्यादि.
The age-specific मृत्यु rate ( ASMR ) - इस refers to the total क्रमांक of deaths per year per 1000 people of a दिए आयु ( e.g. age 62 पिछला birthday ).
in regard to the or विफलता of चिकित्सा उपचार or प्रक्रियाओं, one would also distinguish:
the early मृत्यु rate, the कुल number of deaths in the early चरण of an जारी उपचार, or in the period तत्काल following an उपचार.
The लेट मृत्यु रेट, the total क्रमांक of deaths in the late चरण of an जारी उपचार, or a significant length of समय after an अधि उपचार.
Note that the crude death रेट as पारिभाषित ऊपर and लागू to a whole population can give a misleading impression.
the crude death रेट depends on the age ( and gender ) विशिष्ट mortality rates and the आयु ( and लिंग ) वितरण of the population.
The number of deaths प्रति 1000 people can be higher लिये विकसित राष्ट्र than in less-developed देशों, despite जीवन expectancy होने higher in developed countries due to मानकों of health being better.
This happens because विकसित countries typically have a completely different जनसांख्यिकी age distribution, with a much higher proportion of पुरानी people, due to both निम्नतर recent जनम दरों and निम्नतर mortality rates.
A अधिक complete picture of मृत्यु is given by a life तालिका जिससे shows the mortality रेट separately for each age.
A जीवन तालिका is जरुरी to दे a शुभ अनुमान of life expectancy.
an otoacoustic उत्सर्जन ( OAE ) is a sound which is generated from within the inner ear.
having महरूम predicted by थामस सुनहरा in 1948, इसके अस्तित्व थी first demonstrated experimentally by दाउद kemp in 1978 and otoacoustic emissions have since महरूम shown to arise by a क्रमांक of अलग cellular mechanisms भीतर the inner ear.
Studies have shown that oaes disappear बाद the भीतरी कान रै महरूम क्षतिग्रस्त, so oaes are प्रायः प्रयुक्त in the प्रयोगशाला and the क्लिनिक as a measure of inner ear स्वास्थ्य.
Broadly speaking, वहीँ हैं two types of otoacoustic emissions : spontaneous otoacoustic emissions ( soaes ), which can occur बगैर बाह्य उत्तेजनाओं, और evoked otoacoustic emissions ( eoaes ), which आवश्यकता an evoking stimulus.
hurricane Tomas थी the उन्नीसवीं नामित storm और बारहवीं hurricane of the 2010 अटलांटिक hurricane season.
टॉमस developed इससे a तीव्र वेव ईस्ट of the windward Islands on अक्तूबर 29.
जल्दी intensifying into a hurricane, it स्थानांतरित through the windward Islands and passed बहुत निकट संत लूसिया.
बाद reaching श्रेणी 2 status on the Saffir-Simpson scale, Tomas जल्दी weakened to a tropical storm in the central caribbean Sea, due to दमदार हवा shear and dry air.
टॉमस बाद regained hurricane औकात as it reorganized near the Windward ड्योढ़ी.
throughout the hurricane 's path, 71 लोगों हैं known to have महरूम killed, 14 of whom यहूद in संत लूसिया.
Monetary losses throughout the windward Islands यहूद estimated at us $ 588 लाख, mainly in संत लूसिया.
in the वेक of the storm in Haiti, flooding intensified an ongoing cholera outbreak indirectly causing more fatalities.
According to a report released in December 2010, 55 people यहूद killed in Cuba और hispanola, though the distribution of these fatalities हैं अनजान.
overall क्षति from the तूफ़ान was at least $ 741 लाख.
Victoria Jackson ( born अगस्त 2, 1959 ) is an American comedian, अभिनेत्री, satirist, सिंगर और internet blogger बेहतरीन ज्ञात as a cast सदस्य of the एनबीसी टेलीविज़न sketch कॉमेडी series Saturday रात्रि सजीव ( SNL ) from 1986 to 1992.
वो रै प्राप्त ध्यान as a vocal आलोचक of अध्यक्ष Barack ओबामा, और is an क्रियाशील भागीदार in the Tea Party गति.
postmodern literature is साहित्य characterized by भारी reliance on techniques जैसे fragmentation, विरोधाभास, और questionable narrators, and is प्रायः ( though नहीं exclusively ) पारिभाषित as a स्टाइल or ट्रेंड which उभरा in the post–World युद्ध II era.
postmodern works हैं देखी as a reaction विरूद्ध Enlightenment सोच और modernist approaches to literature.
postmodern literature, like postmodernism as a पूरे, tends to resist definition or वर्गीकरण as a `` गति ''.
बेशक, the convergence of postmodern साहित्य साथ विभिन्न modes of critical theory, particularly reader-response and deconstructionist approaches, और the subversions of the implicit अनुबंध between लेखक, टेक्स्ट और reader by जिससे इसके works are often characterised, have led to pre-modern fictions such as cervantes ' Don quixote ( 1605,1615 ) and laurence sterne 's eighteenth-century व्यंग्य Tristram Shandy being retrospectively inducted into the fold.
While वहीँ is little consensus on the precise characteristics, पैमाना, और महत्व of postmodern literature, as is प्रायः the case साथ artistic movements, postmodern literature is commonly पारिभाषित in relation to a precursor.
लिये example, a postmodern साहित्यिक work tends नहीं to conclude साथ the neatly tied-up समाप्ति as is प्रायः मिला in modernist literature, but often parodies it.
Postmodern लेखक tend to celebrate chance over शिल्प, and further employ metafiction to undermine the writer 's प्राधिकार.
another characteristic of postmodern literature is the questioning of भेद between ऊँची और low संस्कृति through the use of pastiche, the संयोजन of subjects and जाति not previously deemed अनुरूप लिये साहित्य.
पहेली is an electronic musical project संस्थापित in Germany by Michael Cretu, दाउद Fairstein and Frank पीटरसन in 1990.
the Romanian-born cretu conceived the पहेली प्रोजेक्ट while working in जर्मनी, but based उसके recording स्टुडियो a.r.t. studios in ibiza, Spain, इससे the जल्दी 1990s until May 2009, where he रै अंकित सब of Enigma 's स्टुडियो रिलीज to तिथि.
Cretu is both the composer और the producer of the project.
His former wife, pop singer Sandra, often provided vocals on Enigma ट्रैक्स.
जेंस Gad co-arranged और निभाई guitar on तीन of the पहेली एल्बम.
Peter कॉर्नेलियस भी contributed to पहेली during the 1990s.
Seven studio albums have been produced अंतर्गत the नाम of the project.
Scooby-Doo is an American animated कार्टून मताधिकार, comprising अनेक एनिमेटेड television series produced इससे 1969 to the present दिन.
the original series, Scooby-Doo, जहाँ Are तुम !
, was created for hanna-barbera प्रोडक्शन्स by लेखक Joe माणिक्य और Ken Spears in 1969.
इस शनिवार morning कार्टून series featured four teenagers— फ्रेड जोन्स, Daphne Blake, Velma Dinkley, and Norville `` shaggy '' Rogers — and their talking भूरा ग्रेट डेन श्वान नामित Scooby-Doo, who solve mysteries involving माना supernatural creatures through a series of हरकतों and missteps.
Following the कामयाबी of the असली श्रेणी, Hanna-Barbera और इसके successor Warner Bros. Animation have produced numerous follow-up और spin-off एनिमेटेड श्रेणी and several related works, including टेलीविज़न specials and telefilms, a लकीर of direct-to-video films, और दो warner भाईs. –produced नाट्य विशेषता films.
कुछ संस्करण of Scooby-Doo विशेषता different variations on the show 's अलौकिक theme, and include वर्ण ऐसे as Scooby 's cousin Scooby-Dum और nephew Scrappy-Doo in जोड to or instead of some of the असली characters.
Scooby-Doo थी originally broadcast on CBS from 1969 to 1976, when it moved to ABC.
ABC aired the show जबतक canceling it in 1986, और presented a spin-off featuring the characters as children, a Pup Named scooby-doo, from 1988 until 1991.
Two नई scooby-doo श्रेणी, कया 's नई, scooby-doo ?
and shaggy and scooby-doo मिलेंगी a a सुराग ! ] ], aired as part of बच्चे wb on The WB संजाल और its successor, the CW संजाल, इससे 2002 until 2008.
the most हाल Scooby-Doo श्रेणी, Scooby-Doo !
Mystery incorporated, aired on Cartoon Network from 2010 to 2013.
Repeats of the विभिन्न Scooby-Doo श्रेणी are ब्रॉडकास्ट अक्सर on Cartoon संजाल and Boomerang in the United States and अन्य देशों.
Call of ड्यूटी is a first-person और third-person शूटर computer/ वीडियो game मताधिकार.
the series began on the pc, और later विस्तारित to consoles और handhelds.
अनेक spin-off games have also been released.
The पहले games in the श्रेणी हैं set primarily in World War ii, this शामिल : कॉल of Duty, कॉल of Duty 2, and कॉल of Duty 3.
Beginning साथ Modern Warfare, which is नियत in modern टाइम्स, the श्रेणी रै shifted फ़ोकस away from World War II.
Call of Duty 4 : आधुनिक warfare ( released November 2007 ) was followed by कॉल of Duty : संसार at युद्ध और Call of ड्यूटी : आधुनिक Warfare 2.
Black Ops ( released November 2010 ) takes place in the ठंडा युद्ध, while आधुनिक warfare 3 ( released November 2011 ) takes प्लेस in the near-future setting.
Black Ops 2 ( Released November 13, 2012 ) takes place in the year 2025.
the Call of ड्यूटी खेल हैं प्रकाशित and स्वामित्व by एक्टिविजन साथ aspyr Media publishing it for Apple OS X.
जबकि the स्टुडियो Infinity वार्ड primarily स्टिल develops them, Treyarch has भी विकसित several of the titles साथ the रिलीज of the studios ' games interlaced साथ each अन्य.
कुछ games have been developed by धूसर पदार्थ इंटरैक्टिव, चिंगारी Unlimited, विस्मित Entertainment, n-Space, Rebellion developments, Ideaworks Game Studio, Sledgehammer Games and nstigate Games.
the games use a variety of engines, including the id तकनीक 3, the treyarch NGL, and the IW 5.0.
अन्य उत्पाद in the मताधिकार include a लकीर of action आंकड़े designed by Plan-B Toys, a card game created by अपर Deck, and a कॉमिक book mini-series प्रकाशित by wildstorm.
as of नवम्बर 11, 2011, the Call Of ड्यूटी श्रेणी have sold over 100 लाख copies.
as of कूच 31, 2012 there हैं 40 लाख मासिक क्रियाशील players across all of the Call of Duty titles, साथ 10 million Call of Duty : elite users and 2 लाख paying सालाना सदस्यों.
over 1.6 billion hours of online gameplay have been logged आधुनिक warfare 3 चूंकि इसके 2011 release.
the estate tax in the संयुक्त राज्य is a कर imposed on the transfer of the `` taxable estate `` of a deceased व्यक्ति, whether ऐसे प्रॉपर्टी is transferred via a होगा, according to the राज्य laws of intestacy or वरना बना as an घटना of the मौत of the owner, ऐसे as a transfer of प्रॉपर्टी from an intestate estate or विश्वास, or the भुगतान of निश्चित जीवन बीमे लाभ or financial खाता रकम to beneficiaries.
The estate tax is one भाग of the Unified तोहफा और Estate कर प्रणाली in the United राज्य.
the अन्य भाग of the प्रणाली, the तोहफा tax, imposes a tax on हस्तांतरण of प्रॉपर्टी दौरान a व्यक्ति 's life ; the gift tax prevents avoidance of the estate कर चाहिए a person want to दे दूर his/her estate.
In जोड to the federal government, many राज्य also impose an एस्टेट कर, साथ the state version पुकारा either an estate कर or an उत्तराधिकार tax.
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों of the एस्टेट कर कॉल it the `` death tax ''.
if an asset is बाएँ to a जीवनसाथी or a Federally recognized charity, the कर प्रायः करता नहीं लागू.
in addition, up to $ 5,250,000 can be दिए by an व्यक्तिगत, पहले and/or upon उनके death, without incurring federal gift or estate कर.
गेविन मैकग्रेगर rossdale ( born 30 October 1967 ) is an अंग्रेज़ी actor और संगीतकार, ज्ञात as the lead singer and rhythm guitarist of the rock बैंड Bush.
Following बुश 's separation in 2002, which lasted for eight सालो, he was the सीसे सिंगर और guitarist for संस्थान, और later began a सोलो करियर.
जब performing solo, Gavin plays गीतों from his extensive musical libraries.
rossdale रै been ranked in the शीर्ष 100 Heavy मेटल Vocalists by hit Parader ( # 75 ).
raffaello sanzio da urbino ( अप्रैल 6 or March 28, 1483 – April 6, 1520 ), बेहतर ज्ञात simply as Raphael, थी an इतालवी painter and architect of the High Renaissance.
His कार्य is admired लिये इसके clarity of form और आसानी of composition और for its visual achievement of the Neoplatonic आदर्श of इंसान वैभव.
साथ साथ Michelangelo and Leonardo da Vinci, he forms the traditional trinity of ग्रेट masters of that काल.
राफेल थी enormously उत्पादक, कार्यशील an unusually विशाल workshop, and despite उसके death at 37, a विशाल देह of his कार्य remains.
Many of उसके works are found in the Vatican राजमहल, where the frescoed राफेल कक्ष were the central, and the largest, कार्य of उसके career.
The best known work is the स्कूल of एथेंस in the वेटिकन Stanza della Segnatura.
बाद उसके early years in रोम much of उसके work was self-designed, but for the सबसे भाग executed by the workshop इससे उसके drawings, with considerable loss of विशेषता.
he थी अत्यधिक influential in his आजीवन, हालांकि outside रोम उसके कार्य थी ज़्यादातर ज्ञात इससे his collaborative printmaking.
After उसके मौत, the influence of his ग्रेट प्रतिद्वंद्वी Michelangelo was अधिक widespread until the 18th और 19th centuries, जब राफेल 's अधिक निर्मल और harmonious qualities were again regarded as the उच्चतम मॉडल.
His करियर जलप्रपात naturally into three phases और तीन styles, first described by giorgio Vasari : उसके जल्दी सालो in Umbria, then a period of about four years ( इससे 1504–1508 ) absorbing the कलाकारी परंपराओं of Florence, followed by his पिछला hectic and triumphant twelve सालो in Rome, working लिये दो Popes and their बंद शरीक.
Julia फिओना Roberts ( born अक्तूबर 28, 1967 ) is an अमरीकी actress.
She became a Hollywood star after headlining the रोमांटिक कॉमेडी pretty स्त्री ( 1990 ), जिससे grossed $ 464 million worldwide.
After receiving Golden ग्लोब पुरस्कार and अकादमी पुरस्कार nominations लिये स्टील Magnolias ( 1989 ) और Pretty स्त्री, she जीती the Academy पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री for her प्रदर्शन in Erin Brockovich ( 2000 ).
Her films The pelican ब्रैड ( 1993 ), My बेहतरीन Friend 's विवाह ( 1997 ), रहस्यवादी Pizza ( 1988 ), Notting हिल ( 1999 ), Runaway बहू ( 1999 ), Ocean 's ग्यारह ( 2001 ), समंदर 's Twelve ( 2004 ), Charlie विल्सन 's War ( 2007 ), Valentine 's Day ( 2010 ), Eat दुवा Love ( 2010 ), और Mirror दर्पण ( 2012 ) have collectively brought box दफ्तर रसीदें of over $ 2.6 अरब, बनाना her one of the सबसे कामयाब actresses in terms of box दफ्तर receipts.
रॉबर्ट्स था become एक of the highest-paid actresses in the संसार, टॉपिंग The हॉलीवुड पत्रकारों सालाना `` power सूची '' of top-earning female सितारों from 2005 to 2006.
उसके fee for 1990 's Pretty Woman थी $ 300,000 ; in 2003, वो थी सशुल्क an unprecedented $ 25 लाख for उसके भूमिका in mona लिसा Smile ( 2003 ).
As of 2010, Roberts 's net worth was अनुमानित to be $ 140 लाख.
रॉबर्ट्स has महरूम नामित one of People पत्रिका 's `` 50 Most खूबसूरत लोगों in the संसार '' ग्यारह times, tied with Halle बेरी.
in 2011, she was named एक of the `` 100 hottest महिलाओं of All-Time '' by मेन 's Health.
in 2001, Ladies Home Journal ranked her as the 11th most powerful woman in the संयुक्त States.
Mark Elliot zuckerberg ( born may 14, 1984 ) is an American कंप्यूटर programmer and अंतरजाल उद्योगों.
he is best known as one of पाँच co-founders of the सोशल networking website Facebook.
As of अप्रैल 2013, Zuckerberg is the अध्यक्ष and मुख्य executive of Facebook, inc. and in 2013 उसके personal wealth was अनुमानित to be US $ 13.3 billion.
साथ with his college roommates and fellow हार्वर्ड University students एडुआर्डो saverin, एंड्रयू mccollum, डस्टिन Moskovitz and Chris ह्यूजेस, Zuckerberg launched Facebook from हार्वर्ड 's शयनागार कक्ष.
The समूह then introduced Facebook onto अन्य campuses nationwide and moved to Palo आल्टो, California, United राज्य ( U.S. ) shortly afterwards.
In 2007, at the age of twenty-three सालो, Zuckerberg became a अरबपति as a परिणाम of Facebook and the number of फेसबुक users worldwide reached a total of एक billion in 2012.
Zuckerberg was शामिल in विभिन्न legal विवादों that were initiated by अन्य in the समूह, जो claimed a share of the company based upon their भागीदारी दौरान the development phase of Facebook.
Since 2010, zuckerberg रै महरूम नामित among the 100 wealthiest and सबसे influential people in the संसार by Time पत्रिका as a भाग of इसके व्यक्ति of the Year accolade.
zuckerberg थी played by कर्ता जेसी eisenberg in the 2010 Hollywood फिल्मी The सोशल संजाल in जिससे the वृद्धि of Facebook is portrayed.
the mayflower was the ship कि in 1620 transported 102 English तीर्थयात्रियों, सहित a core समूह of separatists, to New इंग्लैण्ड.
Their स्टोरी is एक of travail और अस्तित्व in a harsh New World पर्यावरण.
framedthe
कमेटी of तरीके और अर्थात् is the मुख्य tax -writing committee of the United राज्य हाउस of Representatives.
Members of the तरीके और Means कमेटी are not allowed to serve on कोई other हाउस Committees unless वे apply लिये a waiver इससे उनके party 's congressional leadership.
The Committee रै jurisdiction over all taxation, tariffs and other revenue-raising measures, as खूब as a number of अन्य programs including:
सोशल सुरक्षा
Unemployment benefits
Medicare
Enforcement of child support कानून
Temporary सहायता लिये मोहताज Families, a federal welfare program
फोस्टर परवाह और adoption programs
The u.S. Constitution requires कि all बिल्स regarding taxation must originate in the House of Representatives.
चूंकि हाउस procedure is that सब बिल्स regarding taxation must go through इस committee, the committee is very influential, as is इसके सीनेट बंटवारा, the U.S. सीनेट कमेटी on वित्त.
The तरीके and अर्थात् Committee in the 111th कॉंग्रेस was chaired by Charlie rangel, who था लिया a leave of absence as chairman जबतक House आचार violations were resolved.
However, उसके छोड़ of अनुपस्थिति as chairman was शासित to be a इस्तीफा.
पीट स्टार्क resigned as acting chairman, so sander levin held that स्थिति until the प्रारंभ of the 112th कॉंग्रेस.
डेव Camp became the कमेटी chair लिये the 112th कॉंग्रेस, बाद the republicans जीती कंट्रोल of the हाउस in the 2010 चुनाव.
The blue whale ( balaenoptera musculus ) is a समुद्री mammal belonging to the suborder of baleen whales ( called mysticeti ).
At in length and or more in वज़न, it is the largest ज्ञात एनिमल to have ever existed.
long and slender, the ब्लू whale 's देह can be various शेड्स of bluish-grey dorsally और somewhat lighter underneath.
वहीँ are at least तीन पृथक subspecies : B. m. musculus of the उत्तर Atlantic and उत्तर प्रशांत, B. m. intermedia of the दक्षिणी Ocean and B. m. brevicauda ( also ज्ञात as the pygmy ब्लू व्हेल ) मिला in the Indian समंदर और दक्षिण Pacific समंदर.
B. m. इंडिका, मिला in the Indian Ocean, may be another subspecies.
As साथ अन्य baleen whales, its आहार consists almost exclusively of small crustaceans known as krill.
Blue whales यहूद abundant in nearly सब the oceans on Earth until the शुरूआत of the बीसवीं सदी.
लिये over a century, they यहूद hunted almost to extinction by whalers until protected by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय जातियाँ in 1966.
A 2002 रपट अनुमानित वहीँ यहूद 5,000 to 12,000 ब्लू whales worldwide, located in at तनिक five groups.
अधिक हाल शोध into the सानो subspecies suggests this may be an underestimate.
पहले whaling, the largest जनसांख्यिकी was in the Antarctic, क्रमांकन approximately 239,000 ( दायरा 202,000 to 311,000 ).
वहीँ remain only much smaller ( around 2,000 ) concentrations in प्रत्येक of the पूर्वी North प्रशांत, Antarctic, और भारतीय समंदर समूह.
वहीँ are दो more groups in the North Atlantic, और at तनिक two in the दक्षिणी Hemisphere.
The ग्लोब artichoke ( cynara cardunculus var. scolymus ) is a variety of a species of thistle cultivated as a खाना.
The खाद्य पदार्थ is buds that form within the flower heads before the पुष्प आइये into bloom.
The कलियों go दूर or बदलें to a coarse, barely edible रूप जब the पुष्प blooms.
the uncultivated or जंगली variety of the प्रजाति is called a cardoon.
it is a बारहमासी plant native to the Mediterranean प्रदेश.
the United States one hundred-dollar bill ( $ 100 ) is a denomination of United States currency.
U.S. statesman, आविष्कारक, और diplomat Benjamin फ्रैंकलिन is currently featured on the obverse of the bill.
On the reverse of the banknote is an चित्र of Independence हॉल.
the $ 100 bill is the largest denomination कि रै been मुद्रित since जुलाई 13, 1969, जब the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, and $ 10,000 यहूद retired.
the ब्यूरो of नक्काशी और Printing says the औसत जीवन of a $ 100 bill in परिसंचरण is 90 months ( 7.5 years ) before it is replaced due to wear और आंसू.
the bills हैं also commonly referred to as `` benjamins '', in सन्दर्भ to the use of बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन 's portrait on the denomination, or `` c-notes '', based on the रोमन numeral लिये 100.
the विधेयक is one of दो denominations printed today that करता not feature a अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States ; the other is the $ 10 bill, featuring Alexander हैमिल्टन.
The समय on the क्लॉक of Independence Hall on the reverse, according to the u.S. ब्यूरो of नक्काशी और Printing, shows approximately 4:10.
One hundred hundred-dollar bills are वितरित by Federal Reserve बैंको in mustard-colored straps ( $ 10,000 ).
the श्रेणी 2009 $ 100 bill redesign was unveiled on अप्रैल 21, 2010, and थी to be issued to the public on February 11, 2011, लकिन उत्पादन थी shut down in December 2010 because as many as 30 % were unusable due to a manufacturing flaw.
A लंबवत crease in the पेपर reveals a blank स्पेस on the विधेयक when खींचा आउट.
In उनके replacement, और continuing the high माँग of this denomination, the Series 2006a was launched retaining the previous डिज़ाइन ( 1996-generation ).
On April 24, 2013, the Federal Reserve घोषित the नई $ 100 विधेयक would डालें circulation on अक्तूबर 8, 2013.
किंग दाउद in robes of a Byzantine emperor.
miniature इससे the पेरिस Psalter.
David ( ; आईएसओ 259-3 Dawid ; ' ; Strong 's : daveed ) according to the Hebrew बाइबल, was the second किंग of the United किंगडम of इसराईल, and according to the नई Testament gospels of मैथ्यू और Luke, an ancestor of Jesus.
उसके life is conventionally dated to c. 1040–970 BCE, उसके reign over Judah c. 1010–1002 BCE, and उसके शासनकाल over the United Kingdom of Israel c. 1002–970 bce.
The Books of Samuel, 1 Kings, and 1 क्रॉनिकल्स हैं the तभी स्त्रोत of सूचना on David, although the Tel Dan stele ( dated c. 850–835 bce ) contains the phrase ( bytdwd ), पढ़ा as `` हाउस of दाउद '', जिससे सबसे scholars take as पुष्टि of the existence in the mid-9th century bce of a Judean royal dynasty called the हाउस of दाउद.
he is depicted as a righteous king, हालांकि not बगैर faults, as खूब as an acclaimed योद्धा, संगीतकार, और poet, traditionally credited for composing अनेक of the psalms contained in the Book of Psalms.
दाउद is सेंट्रल to Jewish, Christian, और Islamic doctrine and संस्कृति.
biblical परंपरा maintains कि a सीधा वंशज of David होगा be the मसीहा.
in Islam he is माना to be a prophet और the किंग of a स्वदेश.
काठमांडू ( ; ) is the पूंजी and largest urban agglomerate of नेपाल.
The agglomerate consists of काठमांडू महानगर City at इसके core, and its सिस्टर cities patan, Kirtipur, Thimi, and भक्तपुर.
it also शामिल the recently recognized शहरी क्षेत्रों of Shankhapur, karyabinayak, and champapur.
Banepa, dhulikhel, and Panauti are उपग्रह शहरी क्षेत्रों of Kathmandu located बस बाहर the Kathmandu valley.
काठमांडू is also ज्ञात informally as `` ktm '' or the `` tri-city ''.
According to a जनसांख्यिकी conducted in 2011, Kathmandu metropolis alone has 975,453 inhabitants ; और the agglomerate रै a population of more than 2.5 million inhabitants.
the metropolitan नगर क्षेत्रफल is और has a population घनत्व of 19,250 प्रति km2.
The नगर स्टैंड at an उन्नयन of approximately in the bowl-shaped काठमांडू Valley of सेंट्रल नेपाल.
it is surrounded by चार major kyu : Shivapuri, phulchoki, nagarjun, and चंद्रगिरि.
काठमांडू घाटी is भाग of तीन districts ( काठमांडू, Lalitpur, और Bhaktapur ), रै the highest population घनत्व in the देश, and is घर to about a twelfth of Nepal 's population.
During rana and Shah eras, the name `` नेपाल '' referred तभी to the Kathmandu Valley ; it was what people जो जिया बाहर the घाटी called it.
दौरान इस period, अंग्रेजों इतिहासकारों पुकारा the घाटी itself `` नेपाल उचित ''.
आज, Kathmandu is not only the capital of the संघीय लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of नेपाल, लकिन भी the मुख्यालय of the Central Development Region of नेपाल.
The Central प्रदेश comprises three zones : bagmati, narayani, and Janakpur.
Kathmandu is स्तिथ in the Bagmati मण्डल.
Kathmandu is the गेटवे to पर्यटन in Nepal.
it is also the nerve बीच of the देश 's अर्थव्यवस्था.
it रै the most उन्नत infrastructure of कोई urban area in नेपाल, and its economy is केन्द्रित on tourism, which accounted लिये 3.8 % of नेपाल 's GDP in 1995–96.
( पर्यटन in Kathmandu declined thereafter दौरान a काल of political अशांति, but चूंकि तब has improved. )
The नगर रै a rich इतिहास, spanning nearly 2000 years, as inferred इससे inscriptions मिला in the घाटी.
धार्मिक और cultural festivities form a प्रमुख part of the lives of लोगों residing in Kathmandu.
सबसे of Kathmandu 's people follow हिंदुत्व and many others follow Buddhism.
There are लोगों of other religious beliefs as खूब, giving काठमांडू a cosmopolitan culture.
नेपाली is the most commonly spoken भाषा in the नगर.
नेपाल bhasa is the स्वदेशी language बोला by the नेवार people.
Hindi is widely समझा and English is understood by Kathmandu 's educated residents.
the city 's literacy रेट is 98 %.
Kathmandu 's sister cities ( Lalitpur Patan ) और Bhaktapur are integral to काठमांडू 's cultural heritage, पर्यटन उद्योग, and economy ; इसलिए युनेस्को 's संसार Heritage Site सूचियाँ सब three cities ' monuments और attractions साथ अंतर्गत one heading, `` Kathmandu Valley- युनेस्को संसार विरासत साईट ``.
Field हॉकी, usually referred to बस as hockey, is a team sport of the hockey family which is निभाई between दो teams of eleven खिलाड़ी साथ hockey sticks और a hard, solid plastic बॉल.
at the फेरे of the 21st सदी, the game is निभाई globally, साथ particular popularity throughout Europe, एशिया, Oceania, और दक्षिण America – in addition to होने the national sport of पाकिस्तानी और India.
The term `` फ़ील्ड हॉकी '' is used primarily in Canada, the संयुक्त States, और other regions of the world जहाँ the sport of बर्फ हॉकी is अधिक लोकप्रिय.
दौरान play, लक्ष्य keepers हैं the only खिलाड़ी जो हैं अनुमत to touch the बॉल साथ कोई भाग of their body ( साथ the एक्सेप्शन of a player 's hand considered 'part of the stick ' ), साथ this only applying within the shooting वृत्त ( also ज्ञात as the D, or shooting चाप, or बस the circle ), जबकि फ़ील्ड खिलाड़ी खेल the बॉल with the चपटा side of उनके स्टिक.
the टोली कि स्कोर the most लक्ष्य by the समाप्त of the मैच wins.
if the स्कोर is tied at the end of the game, either a draw is declared or the game goes into अतिरिक्त time and/or a दंड shootout, depending on the प्रतियोगिता 's format.
the governing देह of hockey is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय हॉकी संघ ( fih ), साथ men and women होने represented internationally in competitions including the ओलम्पिक खेल, Commonwealth खेल, हॉकी World Cup, Champions ट्रॉफी and जूनियर हॉकी संसार कप, with अनेक countries कार्यशील extensive junior, वरिष्ठ, और masters ' क्लबों प्रतियोगिताओं.
The FIH is भी जिम्मेदार लिये organising the हॉकी Rules फलक और developing the नियम for the खेल.
a popular रूपांतर of फ़ील्ड hockey is indoor hockey, which differs in a number of respects while embodying the प्राथमिक principles of हॉकी.
अंदर hockey is a 6-a-side variant, with a फ़ील्ड which is घटाया to लगभग 40m × 20m.
With many of the rules बाकी the वही, including रुकावट and फीट, वहीँ are several कुंजी विसंगतियाँ - खिलाड़ी may not उठाएँ the ball unless shooting on goal, players may नहीं hit the बॉल ( बजाय utilising pushes to ट्रांसफ़र the ball ), and the sidelines हैं replaced साथ ठोस barriers which the ball will rebound off.
Ethan `` Cane '' ashby ( né Atkinson ) is a fictional character from the अमरीकी CBS साबुन opera the यंग और the बेचैन.
He is portrayed by Australian कर्ता डेनियल Goddard, जो originally auditioned for Brad Snyder on as the World Turns but थी अनुशंसित लिये a भूमिका on the यंग और the बेचैन बजाय.
the role was to be portrayed as an American, but गोडार्ड 's ऑस्ट्रेलियाई descent बहकावे the character 's पृष्ठभूमि.
Former सिर writer lynn Marie लैथम introduced उसे during the episode airing on January 12, 2007 as an ऑस्ट्रेलियाई bartender in ढूंढें of his family, a डेब्यू कि received a mixed जवाब.
लैथम created cane as the son of Phillip Chancellor II ( Donnelly Rhodes ) और Jill Foster Abbott ( Jess वाल्टन ) लकिन the character 's background was rewritten by मरिया एरिना घंटी in 2009, reestablishing him as the बेटे of कोलिन और Genevieve एटकिन्सन ( ट्रिस्टन Rogers और Genie फ्रांसिस ).
Though characterized as `` रहस्यमय '', cane is `` loyal and dedicated '', while Goddard described the अक्षर as a `` typical ऑस्ट्रेलियाई, working-class kind of guy ''.
he was the first सदस्य of the एटकिन्सन परिवार to appear on the series, followed by उसके अभिभावक और identical जुड़वा brother.
जल्द after उसके डेब्यू, he became a leading character, a निर्णय praised by दर्शक and critics.
The character has महरूम शामिल साथ Amber मूर ( Adrienne Frantz ), क्लो Mitchell ( Elizabeth Hendrickson ) and सबसे notably Lily सर्दियों ( Christel Khalil ), a romance that garnered significant fan attention.
in 2009, Cane और लिली यहूद married ; वैश्विक BC होता बाद कॉल लिली the love of cane 's life.
The जोड़ी था दो children, चार्ली और mattie Ashby.
in 2011, the actor थी fired, and cane थी shot to death onscreen.
however, Goddard was rehired जल्द बाद viewers campaigned for his वापसी, revealing that cane 's एकसमान जुड़वा bhai was in फैक्ट the man who died.
इस sacrificed उसके marriage to Lily, but the couple were remarried on वेलेंटाइन 's दिन in 2012.
Goddard has महरूम widely acclaimed लिये his portrayal ; canyon न्यूज said कि he portrays the character honestly, and is `` सदा dependable, on आग and रोमांचक ''.
John क्रिस्टोफर `` Johnny '' Depp ii ( born June 9, 1963 ) is an अमरीकी actor, film निर्माता, and musician.
He has won the Golden Globe Award और स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड पुरस्कार for Best कर्ता.
डेप rose to prominence on the 1980s television श्रेणी 21 जम्प Street, becoming a teen idol.
असंतुष्ट with कि औकात, Depp turned to फिल्मी for more challenging भूमिकाएँ ; he played the title अक्षर of the acclaimed एडवर्ड scissorhands ( 1990 ) और बाद मिला बक्सा दफ्तर success in films ऐसे as Sleepy Hollow ( 1999 ), चार्ली और the चॉकलेट Factory ( 2005 ), ऐलिस in वंडरलैंड ( 2010 ), rango ( 2011 ) और the Pirates of the caribbean film श्रेणी ( 2003–present ).
he रै collaborated साथ निदेशक and friend टिम Burton in आठ films ; the सबसे recent being अंधेरा साए ( 2012 ).
डेप रै gained acclaim लिये his portrayals of such people as Ed लकडी in ed Wood, Joseph D. Pistone in donnie Brasco, Hunter S. थॉम्पसन in Fear and loathing in Las Vegas, George जंग in उड़ा, और the bank robber जॉन dillinger in Michael मन 's Public Enemies.
Films featuring डेप have grossed over $ 3.1 billion at the United राज्य बक्सा office और over $ 7.6 billion worldwide.
He रै महरूम मनोनीत for शीर्ष awards many times, winning the Best कर्ता पुरस्कार इससे the सुनहरी –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy Globes –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy for स्वीनी टॉड : the Demon Barber of बेड़े Street and from the Screen Actors गिल्ड for Pirates of the Caribbean : the अभिशाप of the ब्लैक पर्ल.
He also रै garnered a sex symbol status in American सिनेमा, being twice नामित as the `` sexiest Man जिंदा `` by लोगों पत्रिका in 2003 and 2009.
he रै महरूम सूचीबद्ध in the 2012 Guinness किताब of World रिकॉर्ड as the उच्चतम paid कर्ता, साथ $ 75 million.
the World Wide Web ( abbreviated as www or W3, commonly ज्ञात as the वेब ), is a system of interlinked hypertext दस्तावेज़ पहुँचा via the अंतरजाल.
साथ a web ब्राउजर, one can view web पृष्ठों कि may contain टेक्स्ट, images, videos, and other multimedia, और navigate between them via hyperlinks.
Using concepts इससे उसके पहले hypertext प्रणालियों like ENQUIRE, British engineer, कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक and at that time employee of the CERN, सर टिम berners-lee, अभी Director of the संसार Wide Web consortium ( W3C ), लिखा a प्रस्ताव in कूच 1989 for what would आखिरकार become the World Wide Web.
at CERN, a European research संगठन near Geneva straddling the किनारा between France और स्विट्ज़रलैंड, Berners-Lee और belgian कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक Robert Cailliau प्रस्तावित in 1990 to use hypertext `` to link and अभिगम सूचना of विभिन्न kinds as a वेब of नोड in which the उपयोक्ता can ब्राउज़ at will '', and they सरेआम introduced the प्रोजेक्ट in December of the same year.
चिह्नित Travis जॉन सांचेज़ ( born November 11, 1986 ) is an American football क्वार्टरबैक for the नई यॉर्क jets of the National फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( NFL ).
he थी drafted in the पहला round of the 2009 एनएफएल Draft as the पांचवां overall चयन by the Jets and the second क्वार्टरबैक taken overall.
he played कॉलेज football at the विश्वविद्यालयों of दक्षिणी California ( USC ).
सांचेज़ grew up in a well-disciplined and एथलेटिक परिवार.
In the eighth grade, he began to play फ़ुटबॉल and learn the intricacies of the क्वार्टरबैक position, training साथ his father, Nick.
A well-regarded prospect, Sanchez committed to दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया following his successful high स्कूल करियर in which he led उसके team to a championship शीर्षक during his final season.
at यूएससी, Sanchez was relegated as the backup क्वार्टरबैक दौरान his first तीन सालो हालांकि he rose to prominence due to उसके brief appearances on the field in 2007 due to चोटों suffered by starting quarterback जॉन दाउद Booty.
सांचेज़ also became popular within the community due to उसके mexican-american heritage.
Named the starter in 2008, Sanchez led यूएससी to a 12–1 रिकार्ड और won the रोज़ Bowl विरूद्ध penn State for which सांचेज़ was awarded the Most मूल्यवान Player पुरस्कार लिये his performance on ठोकर.
Although many माना him too inexperienced, सांचेज़ घोषित his intention to enter the 2009 एनएफएल Draft.
He was selected by the jets after they traded up साथ the क्लीवलैंड Browns, and थी named the starting क्वार्टरबैक prior to the start of the season.
despite a subpar प्रदर्शन, Sanchez led the Jets to the AFC Championship Game, a losing effort to the इंडियानापोलिस Colts, becoming the fourth rookie क्वार्टरबैक in NFL इतिहास to जीत his पहला playoff game और the second to जीत two playoff खेल.
in उसके second season, Sanchez जारी to develop और led the jets to the playoffs and the team 's second consecutive AFC चैंपियनशिप खेल where वे narrowly lost to the Pittsburgh स्टीलर्स, 24–19.
साथ the win over the New इंग्लैण्ड Patriots the सप्ताह prior, Sanchez tied चार अन्य quarterbacks for the दूसरी सबसे post-season सड़क victories by a क्वार्टरबैक in NFL history.
in leading the Jets to दो लगातार सम्मेलन championships, सांचेज़ joined क्वार्टरबैक बेन roethlisberger as the तभी two quarterbacks in एनएफएल इतिहास to पहुँचें the सम्मेलन championship in उनके पहला two seasons in the लीग.
The next दो सीज़न would be a regression लिये दोनो the टोली और सांचेज़ as they failed to पहुँचें the playoffs.
प्रशंसक और media critics पुकारा for a struggling सांचेज़ to be benched.
He आखिरकार थी replaced towards the end of the 2012 season with Greg McElroy.
पॉल एवेरी ( April 2, 1934December 10, 2000 ) थी an American police रिपोर्टर, best known लिये उसके कहानियां on the infamous serial killer known as the Zodiac, and later लिये his कार्य on the Patricia Hearst अपहरण.
a small submersible AC sump पंप with a garden नली कनेक्टर
A sump पंप is a पंप used to हटाएँ water that रै accumulated in a water collecting sump जलाशय, commonly found in the basement of homes.
the water may enter via the घेरा drains of a तहखाने waterproofing प्रणाली, funneling into the basin or because of बरसात or प्राकृतिक मैदान water, if the तहखाने is नीचे the जल तालिका level.
sump pumps हैं प्रयुक्त where basement flooding happens regularly and to remedy dampness जहाँ the जल table is above the foundation of a home.
Sump पंपों send जल दूर from a हाउस to any place where it is no longer problematic, ऐसे as a municipal storm नाली or a शुष्क खूब.
पंपों may discharge to the sanitary सीवर in पुरानी संस्थापना.
एकबार considered स्वीकार्य, this practice may now violate the plumbing कोड or नगरपालिका bylaws, because it can overwhelm the नगरपालिका मलजल treatment system.
municipalities urge homeowners to डिस्कनेक्ट and reroute sump पंप discharge दूर इससे sanitary sewers.
Fines may be imposed लिये noncompliance.
अनेक homeowners have inherited उनके sump pump configurations और do नहीं एहसास कि the पंप discharges to the सीवर.
If the discharge is खिलाया to a laundry डूबना in the तहखाने, it 's likely going to the sewer.
Usually hardwired into a घर 's विद्युत प्रणाली, sump pumps may have a battery backup.
The घर 's pressurized water सप्लाई शक्तियां some पंपों, eliminating the need for विद्युत at the expense of using potable जल, potentially making उन्हें अधिक महंगी to operate than विद्युत पंपों and creating an अतिरिक्त water निपटान problem.
Since a sump जलाशय may overflow if नहीं constantly उत्तेजित, a बैकअप system is important for cases जब the main power is आउट लिये prolonged अवधि of समय, as during a severe storm.
वहीँ are generally two types of sump पंपों — pedestal और submersible.
the pedestal pump 's मोटर is mounted ऊपर the sump, where it is more easily serviced, but is also more conspicuous.
the पंप impeller is driven by a long, vertical extension शाफ्ट और the impeller is in a स्क्रॉल आवास in the आधार of the पंप.
The submersible पंप is entirely mounted अंदर the sump, and is specially sealed to prevent electrical छोटी circuits.
sump पंप प्रणालियों are भी utilized in industrial and commercial अनुप्रयोग to कंट्रोल जल तालिका -सुनानाd problems in surface मृदा.
An artesian aquifer or periodic high जल table हालात can कारण the ground to become अस्थिर due to water saturation.
as long as the पंप functions, the सतह soil will remain stable.
These sumps are typically ten feet in गहराई or अधिक ; lined साथ corrugated मेटल pipe कि contains perforations or नाली holes throughout.
They may शामिल इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कंट्रोल प्रणालियों साथ visual and audible alarms और are usually covered to prevent debris और पशु from गिरना in.
Bleeding कान्सास, Bloody Kansas or the किनारा War, थी a series of violent राजनैतिक confrontations involving anti-slavery Free-Staters और pro-slavery `` Border ruffian `` elements, that took place in the कान्सास territory और the neighboring कस्बों of Missouri between 1854 and 1861.
at the heart of the विरोध was the question of whether Kansas would enter the Union as a फ़्री state or स्लेव राज्य.
As ऐसे, Bleeding Kansas was a proxy war between northerners and southerners over the समस्या of slavery in the United राज्य.
The term `` Bleeding Kansas '' was coined by Horace Greeley of the New यॉर्क Tribune ; the कार्यक्रम it encompasses सीधे presaged the American सिविल युद्ध.
कॉंग्रेस had long struggled to balance the interests of pro-slavery forces और anti-slavery शक्तियां.
The कार्यक्रम later known as Bleeding Kansas were नियत into motion by the Kansas–Nebraska अधिनियम of 1854, जिससे nullified the Missouri सुलह और instead implemented the अवधारणा of लोकप्रिय sovereignty.
an ostensibly democratic idea, popular sovereignty stated कि the निवासियों of प्रत्येक territory or राज्य should decide whether it होता be a फ़्री or slave राज्य ; however, इस resulted in immigration en masse to Kansas by कार्यकर्ताओं from दोनो पहलू.
At एक पाइंट, Kansas था two separate governments, each with its अपना constitution, हालांकि तभी one थी federally recognized.
on जनवरी 29, 1861, Kansas was admitted to the Union as a फ़्री राज्य, less than तीन months before the बैटल of फोर्ट sumter जिससे began the सिविल युद्ध.
बेंजीन is an organic रासायनिक यौगिक with the आणविक सूत्र c6 H|Hydrogen|H6.
इसके molecule is composed of 6 carbon अणु joined in a ring, साथ 1 हाइड्रोजन atom attached to प्रत्येक कार्बन अणु.
Because its molecules contain only कार्बन और हाइड्रोजन अणु, benzene is classed as a hydrocarbon.
बेंजीन is a प्राकृतिक constituent of crude oil, और is एक of the सबसे basic petrochemicals.
बेंजीन is an खुशबूदार hydrocarbon और the दूसरी [ n ] - annulene ( [ 6 ] -annulene ), a cyclic हाइड्रोकार्बन साथ a निरन्तर pi bond.
It is sometimes abbreviated Ph –H. बेंजीन is a colorless और highly ज्वलनशील liquid साथ a sweet smell.
it is मुख्यतः प्रयुक्त as a precursor to heavy chemicals, such as ethylbenzene and cumene, जिससे are उत्पादित on a अरब किलोग्राम स्केल.
क्युकी it has a high octane number, it is an important घटक of gasoline, composing a few percent of its mass.
Most non-industrial अनुप्रयोग have been limited by benzene 's carcinogenicity.
Giovanni Virginio स्क्यापारेल्ली ( ; 14 March 1835 – 4 July 1910 ) was an इतालवी astronomer and science historian.
वी homebrew refers to the reuse of Nintendo 's Wii game console to run तन्त्र कि रै not महरूम प्राधिकृत by Nintendo.
It achieves इस by defeating the Wii 's copy protection और कोड हस्ताक्षर उपायों.
in more सामान्य terms, वी Homebrew refers to the use of the Wii 's hardware, accessories और software लिये purposes बाहर those intended by the निर्माता.
असली प्रयत्न केन्द्रित on using the वी रिमोट as a pointing यंत्र on other ऑपरेटिंग systems, or running web-based खेल in the built-in web ब्राउजर.
subsequent developments in खेल exploits, ऐसे as the `` Twilight hack ``, `` Bannerbomb '' and its बाद incarnation `` LetterBomb '', `` तोड़ Stack '', `` Indiana Pwns '', `` Yu-Gi-OWNED '', `` bathaxx '', and `` Return of the Jodi '', बना installing the `` Homebrew Channel `` संभावित.
हैडली ( सही ) discussing the 2006 israel-lebanon crisis साथ Bush and Rice.
Stephen John हैडली ( born February 13, 1947 ) थी the 21st U.S. Assistant to the President for नेशनल Security Affairs ( commonly referred as नेशनल सुरक्षा सलाहकार ), सेवारत under President George W. Bush.
Take identical growing plants और give उर्वरक to हाफ of उन्हें.
If there are differences between the fertilized संयंत्र group और the unfertilized `` कंट्रोल '' group, these मतभेद may be due to the उर्वरक.
a scientific control is an प्रयोग or अवलोकन designed to minimize the प्रभाव of परिवर्तनीय other than the सिंगल independent variable.
This increases the विश्वसनीयता of the परिणाम, often through a comparison between कंट्रोल माप और the other माप.
Scientific नियंत्रण हैं a भाग of the वैज्ञानिक विधि.
For उदाहरण, during drug testing, वैज्ञानिकों होगा कोशिश to control दो समूह to keep them as एकसमान as possible, then allow एक समूह to try the ड्रग.
another उदाहरण might be परीक्षण plant उर्वरक by giving it to तभी हाफ the plants in a गार्डन : the plants that प्राप्त no fertilizer are the control group, क्युकी they स्थापित the baseline level of growth कि the fertilizer-treated plants will be compared against.
Without a control समूह, the experiment can नहीं determine whether the fertilizer-treated plants grow more than वे would have if untreated.
ideally, सब परिवर्तनीय in an प्रयोग will be नियंत्रित ( accounted for by the control माप ) and none होगा be uncontrolled.
in such an experiment, if सब the controls work as अपेक्षित, it is संभावित to conclude कि the प्रयोग is working as intended and that the results of the experiment are due to the प्रभाव of the परिवर्तनीय being tested.
कि is, scientific नियंत्रण allow an अन्वेषक to make a claim like `` दो situations यहूद एकसमान जबतक फ़ैक्टर x occurred.
चूंकि factor X is the only difference between the two situations, the new निष्कर्ष was caused by factor x. ''
< < Chemical तत्व आंकड़ा references
जॉन Adams ( October 30, 1735 ( o.s. October 19, 1735 ) – July 4, 1826 ) थी the दूसरी president of the United States ( 1797–1801 ), having earlier served as the first वाइस अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States.
an American Founding पिता, he was a statesman, राजनयिक, and a leading एडवोकेट of अमरीकी स्वतंत्रता इससे ग्रेट Britain.
खूब educated, he was an आत्मज्ञान राजनैतिक theorist जो प्रचारित republicanism and लिखा prolifically परिचय his often seminal विचार, दोनो in published works and in अक्षर to उसके बीवी and कुंजी adviser Abigail as खूब as to अन्य founding Fathers.
एडम्स आए to prominence in the जल्दी चरण of the American Revolution.
A lawyer और पब्लिक figure in Boston, as a प्रतिनिधि इससे Massachusetts to the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस, he played a अग्रणी भूमिका in persuading Congress to घोषित independence.
He assisted Thomas जेफरसन in drafting the Declaration of Independence in 1776, and थी its प्राथमिक एडवोकेट in the Congress.
Later, as a diplomat in यूरोपीय, he helped negotiate the eventual peace सन्धि साथ Great ब्रिटेन, और was जिम्मेदार for obtaining vital governmental loans इससे एम्सटर्डम बैंकर्स.
A political theorist and इतिहासकार, Adams largely लिखा the मैसाचुसेट्स Constitution in 1780, which together with his earlier विचार on Government, influenced American political thought.
एक of उसके greatest roles was as a judge of character : in 1775, he मनोनीत जार्ज वॉशिंगटन to be commander-in-chief, and 25 सालो बाद मनोनीत John Marshall to be मुख्य Justice of the संयुक्त राज्य.
Adams ' revolutionary credentials secured him two terms as George वॉशिंगटन 's vice अध्यक्ष और उसके अपना election in 1796 as the दूसरी president.
दौरान his one term, he encountered ferocious हमले by the jeffersonian Republicans, as खूब as the प्रबल faction in उसके अपना Federalist पार्टी led by his bitter दुश्मन Alexander Hamilton.
एडम्स हस्ताक्षरित the controversial एलियन और राजद्रोह Acts, और निर्मित up the army and नेवी especially in the face of an undeclared नवल war ( पुकारा the `` quasi-war `` ) साथ फ़्रांस, 1798–1800.
the प्रमुख accomplishment of his प्रेसिडेंसी was his शांतिपूर्ण resolution of the conflict in the face of हैमिल्टन 's विपक्ष.
in 1800, एडम्स was पराजित लिये re-election by Thomas जेफरसन और retired to Massachusetts.
he later resumed उसके दोस्ती साथ जेफरसन.
he and उसके wife, अबीगैल Adams, संस्थापित an accomplished family लकीर of राजनेता, diplomats, और इतिहासकारों अभी referred to as the एडम्स राजनैतिक परिवार.
एडम्स थी the father of जॉन क्विंसी एडम्स, the sixth President of the United States.
उसके achievements have प्राप्त वृहद recognition in modern times, हालांकि his contributions यहूद नहीं initially as celebrated as those of अन्य Founders.
Adams was the पहला U.S. president to reside in the भवन that eventually became ज्ञात as the White हाउस.
a Watt भाप इंजन.
The भाप इंजन, fuelled primarily by coal, propelled the Industrial Revolution in Great Britain और the world.
The Industrial क्रान्ति was the परिवर्तन to नई manufacturing processes that occurred in the period from परिचय 1760 to कुछ समय between 1820 और 1840.
This transition included going from हाथ production methods to मशीने, नई रासायनिक manufacturing and iron उत्पादन processes, improved दक्षता of जल power, the increasing उपयोग of steam power और development of machine tools.
The transition also शामिल the बदलें from wood and अन्य bio-fuels to coal.
the औद्योगिक revolution began in ब्रिटेन और भीतर a few दशकों स्प्रेड to Western Europe और the संयुक्त States.
The औद्योगिक Revolution marks a प्रमुख turning point in history ; almost every aspect of रोज़ life was बहकावे in कुछ way.
Most notably, औसत income और जनसांख्यिकी began to exhibit unprecedented sustained विकास.
In the शब्द of Nobel पुरस्कार winner Robert E. लुकास, Jr., `` लिये the first time in history, the living standards of the masses of ordinary लोगों have begun to undergo sustained growth... nothing remotely जैसे this आर्थिक बर्ताव is mentioned by the classical अर्थशास्त्रियों, even as a theoretical possibility. ''
William Bell Scott Iron and Coal, 1855-60
the period of time covered by the Industrial Revolution varies साथ different historians.
eric Hobsbawm held कि it 'broke out ' in ब्रिटेन in the 1780s and थी not fully felt जबतक the 1830s or 1840s, while T. S. Ashton held कि it occurred roughly between 1760 and 1830.
कुछ 20th-century इतिहासकारों ऐसे as John Clapham and Nicholas crafts have argued that the process of economic और सोशल बदलें took place धीरे और the पद revolution is a misnomer.
इस is still a subject of debate among इतिहासकारों.
GDP per capita थी broadly stable before the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति और the emergence of the modern पूंजीवादी अर्थव्यवस्था.
The औद्योगिक Revolution began an era of per-capita economic विकास in capitalist economies.
आर्थिक इतिहासकारों are in agreement that the onset of the Industrial क्रान्ति is the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण इवेंट in the history of मानवता since the domestication of पशु और plants.
the पहला Industrial Revolution विकसित into the Second Industrial Revolution in the transition सालो between 1840 and 1870, जब technological और आर्थिक progress gained momentum with the increasing adoption of steam-powered नौकाएँ, जहाजों और रेल, the large scale manufacture of यंत्र tools और the increasing उपयोग of steam powered कारखानों.
Juliet AnnMarie huddy ( born सितंबर 27, 1969 ), is an American टेलीविज़न news रिपोर्टर, currently appearing on Fox न्यूज चैनल.
This list बाँधने u.S. शहरों by जमीन area ( not including लाशें of water ).
कुल क्षेत्रों ( including water ) हैं भी दिए, but note that, when क्रमित by कुल area, a क्रमांक of coastal cities appear disproportionately `` larger ''.
सैन फ्रांसिस्को is an extreme उदाहरण ; जल makes up nearly 80 % of इसके total क्षेत्रफल of 232 square मील ( 601 km2 ).
Note भी that in अनेक मामले a city may be geographically large primarily because इसके municipal सरकारी रै merged साथ the सरकारी of the surrounding county.
In some cases the काउंटी no longer exists, जबकि in अन्य the व्यवस्था has formed a संचित city–county ( or city- borough in अलास्का, or city- parish in Louisiana ).
ये are दिखाया in बिंदास in the सूची नीचे ( लकिन नहीं all examples may be indicated ).
** ये are स्वतंत्र cities, meaning they हैं not a भाग of any county.
The विशाल आंत ( or bowel, colon ) is the पिछला भाग of the digestive system in vertebrate पशु.
इसके function is to अवशोषित water इससे the बाकी indigestible खाना पदार्थ, and then to pass useless waste सामग्री from the देह.
इस आलेख is primarily परिचय the human gut, हालांकि the information about its processes are सीधे applicable to सबसे स्तनधारियों.
the विशाल आंत consists of the cecum, मलाशय and गुदा canal.
it starts in the सही iliac region of the pelvis, बस at or below the सही waist, जहाँ it is joined to the नीचे end of the छोटी आंत.
From यहाँ it continues up the उदर, तब आरपार the width of the abdominal cavity, और तब it turns bas, continuing to इसके endpoint at the anus.
the large आंत is about long, जिससे is about one-fifth of the पूरे length of the intestinal कनाल.
In Terminologia Anatomica the large आंत includes the cecum, कोलन, मलाशय, और anal कनाल.
However, some sources exclude the गुदा कनाल.
The Green खाड़ी Packers हैं an American फ़ुटबॉल team आधारित in ग्रीन Bay, विस्कॉन्सिन.
They हैं सदस्यों of the North Division of the National Football Conference ( NFC ) in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ).
Green Bay is the third-oldest franchise in the एनएफएल, having महरूम व्यवस्थित and playing in 1919.
The Packers are the तभी non-profit, community-owned major लीग professional खेल टोली in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The Packers are the last vestige of `` छोटी कस्बा टीमों '' that यहूद एकबार common in the एनएफएल during the 1920s and 1930s.
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name lambeau Field on which the team plays ) और जार्ज व्हिटनी calhoun, the Green खाड़ी पैकर्स can ट्रेस उनके lineage to other semi-professional teams in Green Bay dating वापस to 1896.
in 1919 and 1920 the पैकर्स competed as a semi-professional फ़ुटबॉल team against clubs from around Wisconsin and the Midwest.
वे joined the American Professional फ़ुटबॉल Association ( APFA ) in 1921, the forerunner to what is known today as the National Football League ( NFL ).
Although Green Bay is the पिछला एनएफएल `` छोटी town '' टोली, its local fan base and media extends into nearby Milwaukee ; the team भी निभाई selected home खेल वहीँ between 1933 और 1994.
the ग्रीन Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than any other टोली in the एनएफएल ), including नौ NFL championships prior to the सुपर Bowl era और four सुपर Bowl victories —in 1967 ( सुपर कटोरी I ), 1968 ( सुपर Bowl ii ), 1997 ( Super Bowl xxxi ) और 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ).
the Packers have long-standing, bitter rivalries with their nfc North ( formerly the nfc सेंट्रल ) opponents, the शिकागो Bears, Minnesota वाइकिंग्स और the Detroit Lions.
the bears-packers rivalry is एक of the oldest rivalries in एनएफएल history, डेटिंग वापस to 1921.
The San फर्नांडो Valley ( locally ज्ञात as `` the घाटी '' ) is an urbanized घाटी स्तिथ in the Los Angeles metropolitan area of southern कैलिफ़ोर्निया, United राज्य, defined by the kyu of the अनुप्रस्थ Ranges circling it.
घर to 1.76 लाख लोगों, it lies north of the larger and अधिक populous Los एंजिल्स जलाशय.
nearly two तिहाई of the Valley 's जमीन area is part of the नगर of लॉस Angeles.
The अन्य incorporated cities in the valley are Glendale, Burbank, San फर्नांडो, Hidden Hills और calabasas.
San फर्नांडो Valley, Los एंजिल्स
The exterior of the current संसार of coca-cola at Pemberton Place.
the संसार of coca-cola, is a स्थाई प्रदर्शनी featuring the इतिहास of the coca-cola कम्पनी.
इसके well-known विज्ञापन as well as a मेजबान of entertainment क्षेत्रों और आकर्षण, और is स्तिथ in अटलांटा, Georgia ( जहाँ the company 's मुख्यालय are स्तिथ ) at pemberton Place ( नामित in सम्मान of जॉन Pemberton, the आविष्कारक of coca-cola ).
as भाग of जॉर्जिया 's संग्रहालय.
the complex स्तिथ आरपार Baker Street from Centennial Olympic पार्क that is घर to the जॉर्जिया Aquarium और भविष्य बीच लिये सिविल & Human Rights.
it खोली to the public on may 24, 2007, relocating from और replacing the असली exhibit.
pretties is a 2005 science fiction अनोखा and the second book of the Uglies Trilogy लिखा by स्कॉट Westerfeld.
It is नियत in a future dystopian संसार in which everyone is turned `` Pretty '' by चरम कॉस्मेटिक surgery upon reaching आयु 16.
It tells the story of किशोरावस्था टैली youngblood who विद्रोहियों against समाज 's enforced conformity.
सुसान Leigh Vaughan Smith ( born सितंबर 26, 1971 ) is an American woman sentenced to जीवन in prison लिये murdering उसके children.
born in संघ, South Carolina, और a former student of the विश्वविद्यालयों of South Carolina संघ, she was convicted on जुलाई 22, 1995 for murdering उसके two बेटे, 3-year-old Michael Daniel स्मिथ, born October 10, 1991, and 14-month-old Alexander Tyler स्मिथ, born अगस्त 5, 1993.
the case gained worldwide attention shortly after it developed, due to उसके claiming that a black man चुराया उसके car and kidnapped उसके बेटे.
वो later claimed कि वो suffered from दिमागी health issues that impaired her निर्णय.
according to the South कैरोलिना विभाग of corrections, स्मिथ होगा be eligible लिये parole on November 4, 2024, after serving a minimum of तीस years.
वो is incarcerated at South Carolina 's Leath correctional Institution, निकट greenwood.
माउंट mckinley ( भी known as denali taken from the इनुइट koyukon Athabaskan भाषा meaning `` The ग्रेट एक '' ) is the उच्चतम पहाड़ peak in the संयुक्त States और in North America साथ a समिट elevation of above sea स्तर.
At कुछ, the base to शिखर rise is considered the largest of any mountain situated entirely above sea level.
measured by स्थलाकृतिक prominence, it is the third सबसे prominent peak बाद Mount Everest and अकोंकागुआ.
Located in the अलास्का दायरा in the interior of us state of Alaska, it is the centerpiece of Denali National पार्क and बचाना.
the पहला European to दस्तावेज़ sighting the mountain थी जार्ज Vancouver in 1794.
in 1903, जेम्स Wickersham recorded the first attempt at climbing McKinley which थी unsuccessful.
in 1906, फ्रेडरिक कुक claimed the first ascent which थी बाद proven to be गलत.
The पहला verifiable ascent to McKinley 's summit थी हासिल on June 7, 1913 by चढना Hudson Stuck, हैरी karstens, वाल्टर Harper, and रॉबर्ट Tatum.
in 1951, Bradford Washburn pioneered the West Buttress route considered to be the safest and easiest route and therefore the most लोकप्रिय फिलहाल in उपयोग.
the होंडा s600 is an ऑटोमोबाइल manufactured by Honda.
it was शुभारम्भ in कूच 1964.
उपलब्धियाँ as a roadster – bearing strong प्रतिरूप to the Honda s500 – और as a fastback coupé – introduced in March 1965 – the s600 was the first Honda उपलब्धियाँ in दो trim स्तर.
During इसके production run up to 1966, the model styling होता remain pretty much the same, with the सबसे notable changes coming to the front grille, बम्पर, and headlights.
संचालित by a DOHC, water-cooled, four-cylinder inline engine साथ four carburetors, the engine क्षमता was increased to 606 cc इससे the S500 's 531 cc.
The engine उत्पादित at 8,500 आरपीएम और had a top speed of.
साथ the convertible weighing in at mere, the अतिरिक्त चादर metal of the coupe तभी added to the overall वज़न.
Suspension थी स्वतंत्र साथ sealed रोलर chain ड्राइव to each पश्च व्हील.
The s600 थी the first mass marketed Honda car.
First offered तभी in right-hand drive, it soon became available in left-hand drive to अपील to निर्यात बाज़ार.
There यहूद a few pre-production s500s manufactured in left hand drive, दो or तीन भी होने दिखाया in कुछ early sales brochures.
दोनो the s600 roadster और coupé were available in standard trim and a खास, upgraded package called the sm600 which included, among अन्य items, special पेंट रंगों, exclusive badging, a standard रेडियो and speaker, a खास antenna in the यात्री side सूर्य visor, मानक reversing लाइट्स, a standard सिगरेट lighter, a standard हीटर, बेहतर cushioned सीटे, और a detachable सीट track for quick removal of the passenger seat.
Honda built 3,912 roadsters in 1964, with production climbing to 7,261 convertibles and 1,519 coupes in 1965.
उत्पादन dropped बंद in 1966 ( as they यहूद shifting to the S800 ) साथ only 111 roadsters and 281 coupes, giving tallies of 11,284 convertibles and 1,800 coupes for the 3 year स्पैन.
everybody Hates Chris is an American टेलीविज़न period sitcom कि depicts the teenage experiences of comedian Chris चट्टान ( who is also the narrator ) जबकि growing up in the bedford-stuyvesant पड़ोस of Brooklyn, नई यॉर्क.
the show is set between 1983 and 1987 ; however, चट्टान खुद थी a किशोरावस्था between 1978 and 1983.
चट्टान grew up साथ a boy named Kenny montero, whom he रै प्रायः referred to as the प्रेरणा लिये a लॉट of the episodes.
in many साक्षात्कार, Rock रै वर्णित केनी as the reason he मिला into comedy in the first place.
The show 's title parodies the CBS sitcom Everybody loves Raymond.
Rock stated : `` everybody loves रेमंड but everybody hates Chris ! ``.
the show 's lead अभिनेताओं are Tyler James विलियम्स, टेरी क्रू, Tichina Arnold, Tequan Richmond, imani Hakim, और Vincent martella.
in Fall 2008, the The cw स्थानांतरित everybody hates क्रिस and the Game to the Friday रात्रि death स्लॉट.
the fourth season of the श्रेणी premiered Friday, अक्तूबर 3, 2008, at 8:00pm Eastern/7:00PM Central.
On may 21, 2009, the CW announced कि it था रद्द Everybody hates क्रिस.
prior to this, कार्यपालिका producer Chris Rock घोषित कि the समाप्त of ऋतु 4 matched up with उसके अपना past—dropping आउट of high स्कूल to become a comedian—and that it was time to end the show.
pleural effusion is excess fluid that accumulates between the दो pleural परतों, the fluid-filled space कि surrounds the lungs.
excessive amounts of such fluid can impair breathing by limiting the expansion of the lungs during वेंटिलेशन.
बियोवुल्फ़ ( ; in बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी or ) is the conventional शीर्षक of an बूढ़ा English heroic epic poem consisting of 3182 alliterative long लाइनों, set in Scandinavia, commonly cited as एक of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण works of Anglo-Saxon साहित्य.
it survives in a सिंगल manuscript ज्ञात as the nowell codex.
Its संयोजन by an बेनाम Anglo-Saxon कवि is dated between the 8th और the जल्दी 11th सदी.
In 1731, the manuscript थी badly damaged by a fire कि swept through a building आवास a संग्रहण of मध्यकालीन manuscripts assembled by Sir रॉबर्ट Bruce कपास.
The कविता गिरी into अस्पष्टता for दशकों, और its अस्तित्व किया नहीं become widely ज्ञात again until it was मुद्रित in 1815 in an संस्करण prepared by the Icelandic-Danish विद्वान Grímur jónsson Thorkelin.
In the कविता, बियोवुल्फ़, a नायिका of the geats in Scandinavia, comes to the help of hroðgar, the king of the Danes, whose मीड hall ( in Heorot ) has been अंतर्गत attack by a monster known as Grendel.
After Beowulf slays him, Grendel 's माँ हमले the hall और is then also पराजित.
विजयी, Beowulf goes घर to geatland in स्वीडन and later becomes king of the geats.
बाद a काल of पचास सालो has passed, Beowulf defeats a ड्रैगन, लकिन is fatally wounded in the battle.
After his मौत, उसके attendants bury उसे in a tumulus, a burial mound, in Geatland.
Shem Ham and japheth by जेम्स tissot 1904.
shem ( ; Sēm ; Arabic : Sām ; ge'ez : ሴም, Sēm ; `` renown ; समृद्धि ; name '' ) was एक of the बेटे of Noah in the Hebrew Bible as खूब as in इस्लामी literature.
he is most popularly regarded as the ज्येष्ठ बेटे, though some traditions लिहाज़ उसे as the दूसरी बेटे.
Genesis 10:21 refers to सापेक्ष ages of Shem और उसके bhai Japheth, लकिन with sufficient ambiguity to have yielded अलग अनुवाद.
The verse is translated in the kjv as `` unto Shem also, the father of all the children of eber, the bhai of Japheth the elder, भी to him यहूद children born. ``.
however, the नई American Standard बाइबल gives, `` Also to shem, the father of all the children of eber, और the पुरानी brother of Japheth, children यहूद born. ''
उत्पत्ति 11:10 records that shem थी स्टिल 100 सालो old at the जनम of arphaxad, ( but nearly 101 - देखिए कालक्रम नोट, ) दो सालो बाद the flood, making him मुश्किल 99 at the time the बाढ़ began ; और that he lived लिये another 500 years बाद this, making उसके आयु at death 600 सालो.
the children of Shem यहूद Elam, Asshur, Arphaxad, Lud, and aram, in addition to daughters.
अब्राहम, the patriarch of the Hebrews and Arabs, थी one of the वंशजों of Arphaxad.
Islamic साहित्य describes shem as one of the believing sons of नूह.
कुछ sources even पहचानो Shem as a नबी in his own सही और that he थी the अगला नबी बाद his father.
in एक Muslim legend, shem थी one of the people कि God made यीशु resurrect as a sign to the Children of इसराईल.
The 1st सदी historian Flavius josephus, among अनेक अन्य, recounted the tradition that ये पाँच बेटे were the progenitors of the राष्ट्र of Elam, Assyria, chaldea, Lydia, और सीरियाई, क्रमशः.
Semitic is still a commonly used पद for the सामीती भाषाएं, as a subset of the Afro-Asiatic भाषाएं, denoting the आम भाषाई विरासत of अरबी, Aramaic, Akkadian, Ethiopic, Hebrew और फ़ोनीशियाई languages.
According to कुछ यहूदी परंपराओं ( e.g., B. talmud Nedarim 32b ; Genesis Rabbah 46:7 ; Genesis rabbah 56:10 ; Leviticus Rabbah 25:6 ; Numbers rabbah 4:8. ), shem is believed to have महरूम melchizedek, King of सलेम whom अब्राहम is recorded to have met बाद the बैटल of the four किंग्स.
In a few of the many extra-biblical sources that describe him, Shem is भी credited with हत्या Nimrod, बेटे of Cush.
Shem is mentioned in Genesis 5:32, 6:10 ; 7:13 ; 9:18,23,26-27 ; 10 ; 11:10 ; also in 1 Chronicles 1:4.
भौगोलिक identifications of Flavius josephus, c. 100 ad ; Japheth 's sons दिखाया in रेड, Ham 's sons in blue, shem 's बेटे in ग्रीन.
Go पापा or Go Daddy Group Inc. is a privately held company that is primarily an internet domain रजिस्ट्रार और web hosting कम्पनी.
go Daddy समूह Inc. दायर for an ipo in 2006, लकिन बाद canceled it, due to `` market uncertainties ''.
in जोड to domain पंजीकरण and होस्टिंग go Daddy भी sells e-business सम्बन्धित software और services.
On June 24, 2011, The Wall Street जर्नल reported that private-equity firms केकेआर and चांदी झील Partners, साथ साथ a तीसरा निवेशकों, यहूद nearing a deal to buy the कम्पनी लिये between $ 2–2.5 billion.
on July 1, 2011 go पापा confirmed that KKR, चांदी Lake साझेदार और प्रौद्योगिकी क्रॉसओवर ventures had closed the सौदे.
हालांकि the purchase दाम थी नहीं officially announced it was reported to be $ 2.25 अरब, लिये 65 % of the company.
, bob पार्सन्स had ceded the CEO भूमिका of Go पापा to वारेन Adelman, who had been साथ the कम्पनी for about 10 years.
The andorran coat of बाहें at the Andorran parliament.
Andorra ( ;, ), officially the Principality of अंडोरा ( ), also पुकारा the principality of the घाटियों of Andorra, ( ), is a landlocked microstate in Southwestern यूरोपीय, located in the पूर्वी pyrenees kyu और bordered by Spain and France.
it is the sixth smallest स्वदेश in Europe, having an area of and an अनुमानित population of 85,000 in 2012.
Its capital, अंडोरा la Vella, is the highest पूंजी नगर in Europe, at an elevation of ऊपर समुद्र level.
The official भाषा is Catalan, हालांकि Spanish, Portuguese, और French हैं भी commonly spoken.
निर्मित अंतर्गत a charter in 988, the उपस्थित principality थी formed in 1278.
it is ज्ञात as a principality as it is a monarchy headed by two co-princes – the Bishop of urgell और the President of फ़्रांस.
अंडोरा is a prosperous देश mainly because of its पर्यटन उद्योग, जिससे सेवाएं an estimated 10.2 million विज़िटर annually, and भी क्युकी of its औकात as a कर haven.
it is not a सदस्य of the यूरोपीय Union, but the यूरोपियन is the de facto currency.
The लोगों of Andorra have the 4th highest human जीवन expectancy in the world — 82 years at birth.
The जार्ज Washington University ( gw, GWU, or जार्ज Washington ) is a व्यापक private, coeducational research विश्वविद्यालयों located in वॉशिंगटन, d.C..
it पुरस्कार certificates, स्नातक degrees, मास्टर्स डिग्री, और PhDs आरपार several दर्जन disciplines.
The university was चार्टर्ड by an अधिनियम of कॉंग्रेस on February 9, 1821 as The columbian College in the ज़िला of कोलंबिया.
Kimberly नोएल `` Kim '' Kardashian ( born अक्तूबर 21, 1980 ) is an अमरीकी socialite, television personality और occasional actress.
In 2007, वो gained सुर्खी as the subject of a sex टेप कि subsequently resulted in a अदालत awarding उसके $ 5 लाख ; बाद in कि same year, she और उसके परिवार rose to prominence with उनके e !
वास्तविकता television series Keeping Up साथ the Kardashians, and its subsequent spin-offs, सहित कोर्टनी and किम Take New York and कोर्टनी and Kim लो Miami.
in 2010, कार्दशियन थी the highest-earning वास्तविकता star, साथ अनुमानित earnings of $ 6 million.
साथ बहनों Kourtney और Khloé, Kardashian co-owns the फ़ैशन boutique chain d-a-s-h.
वो रै महरूम involved in the production of अनेक लाइनों of clothing and सुगंध.
in August 2011, कार्दशियन married basketball खिलाड़ी क्रिस Humphries in a widely publicized रस्म.
That अक्तूबर, कार्दशियन दायर लिये divorce following 72 days of विवाह.
the move garnered significant backlash इससे the media, जो labeled it a `` publicity स्टंट ''.
बाद 536 days, Kardashian and humphries reached an अघोषित उपनिवेश at the लॉस Angeles श्रेष्ठ Court, finalizing the divorce in April 2013.
Aerial view of Oahu with freeways और highways, 3d computer-generated चित्र
fly-around दौरे of the island
oahu ( ) or Oahu, known as `` the Gathering Place '', is the तीसरा largest of the हवाई आइलैंड्स और the most populous of the आइलैंड्स in the u.S. state of Hawaii.
the राज्य capital, होनोलूलू, is on oahu 's southeast coast.
सहित छोटी close-in offshore आइलैंड्स such as Ford Island and the islands in Kaneohe Bay and off the eastern ( windward ) coast, it रै a कुल land क्षेत्रफल of, बनाना it the 20th largest island in the United States.
In the महानतम आयाम, इस volcanic island is long and आरपार.
The लंबाई of the shoreline is.
The island is the परिणाम of two separate शील्ड ज्वालामुखी : waianae और koolau, साथ a व्यापक `` घाटी '' or काठी ( the central oahu मैदान ) between उन्हें.
the उच्चतम point is Mt. Ka'ala in the waianae दायरा, उठती to above समुद्र level.
The आधार करेंसी of the संयुक्त States is the U.S. डालर, and is मुद्रित on बिल्स in denominations of $ 1, $ 2, $ 5, $ 10, $ 20, $ 50, और $ 100.
at one time, however, u.S. currency शामिल five larger denominations.
Notes in the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, और $ 10,000 were मुद्रित लिये सामान्य use, और a $ 100,000 note was मुद्रित for निश्चित internal transactions.
British होंडुरास was a अंग्रेजों colony in सेंट्रल America.
in 1981, the उपनिवेश gained full independence, and is अभी the independent स्वदेश of बेलीज़.
First colonised by spaniards in the 17th century, the territory on the east coast of Central America, south of मैक्सिको, became a अंग्रेजों crown उपनिवेश in 1862.
in 1964, it became a self-governing उपनिवेश.
Belize became fully independent इससे the संयुक्त Kingdom in 1981.
Belize थी the last महाद्वीपीय कब्ज़ा of the United किंगडम in the Americas.
spelt, also ज्ञात as dinkel wheat, or hulled गेहूं, is an ancient species of wheat from the पांचवां मिलेनियम BC.
spelt थी an महत्वपूर्ण स्टेपल in भाग of Europe इससे the Bronze आयु to medieval times ; it now survives as a relict crop in सेंट्रल यूरोपीय और northern Spain और रै मिला a new market as a health food.
Spelt is sometimes considered a subspecies of the closely सम्बन्धित प्रजाति common गेहूं ( T. aestivum ), in जिससे case its वनस्पति name is considered to be Triticum aestivum subsp. spelta.
it is a hexaploid wheat, जिससे अर्थात् it रै six sets of गुणसूत्रों.
शर्लक Holmes ( or ) is a fictional detective निर्मित by author और physician Sir आर्थर कोनन डोयल.
A london-based `` consulting जासूस '' whose abilities किनारा on the fantastic, holmes is प्रसिद्ध for his astute लॉजिकल reasoning, उसके ability to अपनाना लगभग any disguise, और उसके उपयोग of forensic science कौशल to solve difficult cases.
Holmes, who पहला appeared in प्रकाशन in 1887, थी प्रदर्शित in four novels और 56 छोटी stories.
the first novel, A Study in Scarlet, appeared in beeton 's क्रिसमस Annual in 1887 and the दूसरी, The चिह्न of the चार, in Lippincott 's मासिक पत्रिका in 1890.
The अक्षर grew tremendously in लोकप्रियता with the पहला श्रेणी of short stories in the strand पत्रिका, शुरूआत साथ a कांड in बोहेमिया in 1891 ; further श्रेणी of short stories and दो novels प्रकाशित in सीरियल रूप appeared between तब and 1927.
The कहानियां cover a period from around 1880 up to 1914.
सब लकिन चार कहानियां हैं narrated by holmes 's dost and biographer, dr. John H. Watson ; दो are narrated by Holmes himself ( `` the blanched सिपाही `` और `` the Lion 's Mane `` ) and दो others हैं written in the तीसरा व्यक्ति ( `` the Mazarin Stone `` and `` उसके Last धनुष `` ).
In two कहानियां ( `` The musgrave Ritual `` और `` the ग्लोरिया स्कॉट `` ), Holmes tells Watson the main story इससे उसके यादें, जबकि Watson becomes the narrator of the frame story.
The first और चौथी novels, a Study in स्कारलेट और The Valley of Fear, each शामिल a long interval of सर्वज्ञ narration recounting events unknown to either holmes or Watson.
the संयुक्त States House of प्रतिनिधि is एक of the दो घरों of the United States Congress ( a bicameral विधानमंडल ).
It is frequently referred to as the हाउस.
the अन्य house is the सीनेट.
The संयोजन and powers of the हाउस हैं स्थापित in आलेख एक of the संयुक्त States Constitution.
the major शक्ति of the House is to pass federal विधान कि affects the entire country although its bills must भी be passed by the Senate and further agreed to by the u.S. President पहले becoming विधि ( unless both the House and सीनेट re-pass the विधान with a two-thirds बहुमत in प्रत्येक chamber ).
the हाउस रै several exclusive powers : the power to initiate revenue बिल्स, to impeach officials, and to elect the U.S. अध्यक्ष in मामला there is no majority in the Electoral कॉलेज.
प्रत्येक u.S. राज्य is represented in the हाउस in proportion to its जनसांख्यिकी but is entitled to at least one representative.
The सबसे populous राज्य, California, फिलहाल रै 53 representatives.
The total number of मतदान representatives is फिक्स्ड by विधि at 435.
Each representative serves लिये a two-year पद.
the स्पीकर of the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of Representatives, who presides over the chamber, is elected by the members of the House, and is therefore traditionally the नेता of the House Democratic Caucus or the हाउस रिपब्लिकन Conference, whichever पार्टी has अधिक मतदान members.
The House meets in the south wing of the संयुक्त राज्य कैपिटल.
jell-o is a brand नाम belonging to U.S.-based kraft भोजन for a number of जिलेटिन desserts, सहित फल gels, puddings और no-bake cream pies.
the brand 's लोकप्रियता रै led to it होने प्रयुक्त as a generic term for gelatin dessert आरपार the U.S. and कनाडा.
Kennywood is an मनोरंजन पार्क located in वेस्ट mifflin, Pennsylvania, a उपनगरीय of पिट्सबर्ग.
the पार्क first opened in 1898 as a `` ट्राली पार्क '' attraction at the समाप्त of the mellon परिवार 's Monongahela Street Railway.
the park was purchased in 1906 by F. W. henninger and Andrew mcswigan और यूँ began the kennywood Entertainment कम्पनी that रै remained a closely held परिवार business लिये over 100 years.
इस परंपरागत amusement पार्क still has structures and यात्राएँ डेटिंग back to its खोलने and the जल्दी 1900s.
Along साथ Rye playland Park, it is one of only two amusement parks सूचीबद्ध in the National पंजीकरण of Historic Places.
Kennywood is owned by kennywood entertainment Company, which जबतक December 2007 was a closely held family business स्वामित्व by the Henninger and McSwigan families.
Kennywood entertainment is now operated by California-based Palace entertainment, a subsidiary of parques Reunidos, an international मनोरंजन park कम्पनी based in मैड्रिड, Spain.
parque Reunidos is in turn a subsidiary of Candover Investments, an investment fund आधारित in the UK.
A सोशल सुरक्षा कार्ड जारी by the Railroad Retirement फलक in 1943 to a अभी deceased person.
In the संयुक्त States, a सोशल Security number ( SSN ) is a nine-digit क्रमांक issued to U.S. citizens, स्थाई निवासियों, and temporary ( working ) निवासियों under section 205 ( c ) ( 2 ) of the सोशल Security अधिनियम, संहिताबद्ध as.
The number is जारी to an individual by the Social सुरक्षा Administration, an independent agency of the United राज्य सरकारी.
इसके प्राथमिक purpose is to track individuals लिये Social Security उद्देश्य.
a Social सुरक्षा क्रमांक may be प्राप्त by applying on रूप SS-5, `` अनुप्रयोग लिये a Social Security Number कार्ड ''.
Minimalism describes आंदोलनों in विभिन्न forms of आर्ट and design, विशेषकर विज़ुअल आर्ट and music, जहाँ the कार्य is नियत out to expose the essence or identity of a विषय through eliminating all non-essential forms, सुविधाएँ or अवधारणाओं.
Minimalism is any डिज़ाइन or style in जिससे the सरलतम and fewest तत्व हैं used to create the अधिकतम प्रभाव.
As a विशिष्ट movement in the कला it is पहचाना साथ developments in post–World युद्ध II Western आर्ट, सबसे strongly with American विज़ुअल arts in the 1960s और early 1970s.
Prominent artists संबद्ध with this गति include डोनाल्ड Judd, जॉन mccracken, agnes मार्टिन, Dan Flavin, रॉबर्ट Morris, Anne truitt, and फ़्रैंक स्टेला.
it is rooted in the reductive पहलुओं of modernism, and is often interpreted as a reaction विरूद्ध अमूर्त expressionism and a सेतु to postminimal art practices.
the terms have विस्तारित to encompass a गति in म्यूज़िक which features repetition और iteration, as in the रचनाएं of La मोंटे यंग, Terry रिले, Steve reich, Philip कांच, and जॉन एडम्स.
Minimalist compositions हैं sometimes known as systems म्यूज़िक.
the पद `` अल्पतम '' is प्रायः applied colloquially to designate anything कि is spare or stripped to its अनिवार्य.
it has also been used to describe the plays और novels of सैमुएल beckett, the films of Robert Bresson, the stories of Raymond carver, and even the ऑटोमोबाइल डिजाइन of कोलिन chapman.
The शब्द was पहला प्रयुक्त in English in the early 20th century to describe the mensheviks.
In chemistry and physics, Dalton 's law ( also पुकारा Dalton 's law of partial pressures ) राज्य कि the कुल दबाव exerted by the मिश्रण of non-reactive gases is बराबर to the sum of the partial pressures of व्यक्तिगत गैसों.
इस empirical law was observed by जॉन Dalton in 1801 और is related to the आदर्श गैस कानून.
mathematically, the दबाव of a मिश्रण of gases can be defined as the summation
or
where represent the partial pressure of प्रत्येक component.
it is assumed कि the गैसों do not react साथ प्रत्येक other
जहाँ is the mole fraction of the i-th component in the total mixture of n components.
The relationship below provides a way to determine the volume based विशेषज्ञता of any individual gaseous घटक
जहाँ is the विशेषज्ञता of the i-th घटक expressed in ppm.
Dalton 's विधि is नहीं exactly followed by रियल गैसों.
those deviations हैं considerably विशाल at high pressures.
in such conditions, the आवाज़ occupied by the molecules can become significant compared to the फ़्री स्पेस between उन्हें.
In particular, the छोटी average दूरियाँ between molecules उठाता the intensity of intermolecular शक्तियां between गैस molecules पर्याप्त to substantially बदलें the pressure exerted by them.
neither of those effects are considered by the ideal gas मॉडल.
इस is a सूची of the largest United राज्य कॉलेजों and universities by नामांकन लिये कॉलेजों and विश्वविद्यालयों in the संयुक्त States.
कया इस list शामिलs:
कॉलेजों और universities within the United राज्य
विश्वविद्यालयों systems if the system is run अंतर्गत a सिंगल प्रशासन
नामांकन is the sum of the headcount of undergraduate और graduate विद्यार्थी
Enrollment is counted by the एकीकृत Post-secondary Education प्रणाली भीतर the u.S. Department of Education.
Enrollment is the 12-month unduplicated headcount, indicating the number of अद्वितीय students जो attended the university दौरान the साल.
What this list does not include:
Any indication of कैसा many of the नामांकित विद्यार्थी हैं full or part time ( e.g., some universities may have a ऊँची नामांकन, लकिन have सबसे students नामांकित in only a सिंगल class )
For other सूचियाँ that measure university enrollment, see the See Also खण्ड below.
`` सही गोलाकार '' is a सोंग performed by American rapper Flo rida, released as the lead सिंगल from his दूसरी studio album, r.o.o.t.s. ( 2009 ).
The सोंग features अतिथि vocals from kesha.
it was released to radio on 27 जनवरी 2009 and थी डिजिटली released on 10 February by Poe Boy entertainment and Atlantic Records.
the सोंग lyrically speaks of Flo rida 's net बॉल रेफरी enthusiasm, while adapting the chorus of the 1984 Dead or Alive सोंग `` तुम Spin me गोलाकार ( Like a Record ) `` in its आँकड़ा.
according to one of the song 's लेखक, the कोरस refers to मौखिक sex.
Kesha contributed guest vocals to the song, लकिन in the संयुक्त राज्य, दौरान the चलाएं atop the chart, kesha was uncredited.
the सोंग received mostly ऋणात्मक reviews इससे critics, who claimed it was kitsch और misogynistic.
However, it थी a वाणिज्यिक success, reaching the शीर्ष टेन of the चार्ट in nineteen देशों worldwide.
in the संयुक्त राज्य, it became Flo rida 's second number-one सिंगल and broke the रिकार्ड लिये first-week sales when it थी released to digital रिटेलर.
The सिंगल 's accompanying म्यूज़िक video थी निर्देशित by Malcolm Jones और nominated लिये an एमटीवी Video म्यूज़िक Award.
the song रै been used in several movies, ऐसे as the Hangover, the Ugly सच्चाई और the तेलुगु movie pilla Zamindar.
in the फिल्म पिच Perfect, the song is performed by the a cappella group the Treblemakers.
the मुख्य इंसाफ of the संयुक्त राज्य is the head of the United States संघीय अदालत प्रणाली ( the judicial branch of the federal government of the संयुक्त States ) and the मुख्य judge of the Supreme Court of the United States.
the Chief इंसाफ is one of nine परम् अदालत justices ; the other eight are the संबद्ध justices of the परम् Court of the United States.
From 1789 जबतक 1866, the office was ज्ञात as the Chief Justice of the Supreme अदालत.
the Chief इंसाफ is the उच्चतम judicial अधिकारी in the देश, और acts as a chief administrative officer लिये the federal courts and as head of the Judicial Conference of the United States appoints the director of the Administrative दफ्तर of the संयुक्त राज्य Courts.
the Chief इंसाफ भी serves as a spokesperson लिये the judicial शाखा.
the Chief इंसाफ लीड the कारोबार of the Supreme अदालत.
he presides over मौखिक वितर्क before the अदालत.
When the अदालत renders an opinion, the Chief justice—when in the majority—decides who writes the court 's राय.
The Chief Justice भी रै significant agenda-setting शक्ति over the अदालत 's meetings.
in the case of an impeachment of a President of the संयुक्त States, जिससे has occurred twice, the Chief इंसाफ presides over the विचारण in the सीनेट.
in modern tradition, the मुख्य Justice has the ceremonial ड्यूटी of administering the शपथ of दफ्तर of the President of the United राज्य.
the first मुख्य इंसाफ थी John Jay.
The 17th and current Chief Justice is John G. रॉबर्ट्स, jr.
हिरण near prudhoe Bay, 1973
prudhoe Bay आयल Field is a विशाल आयल फ़ील्ड on Alaska 's उत्तर Slope.
it is the largest आयल field in दोनो the United States and in North America, covering और originally containing approximately of आयल.
the राशि of recoverable आयल in the field is more than दोगुना that of the next largest field in the संयुक्त States, the East टेक्सास आयल field.
The field is संचालित by BP ; साझेदार हैं ExxonMobil और ConocoPhillips Alaska.
Labor संघ are legally recognized as प्रतिनिधि of मजदूर in अनेक उद्योग in the United States.
उनके कार्यकलाप today centers on collective bargaining over wages, benefits, and working शर्तें लिये उनके सदस्यता, and on representing उनके members in विवादों साथ management over उल्लंघनों of अनुबंध provisions.
Larger unions भी typically engage in lobbying activities और electioneering at the state और federal level.
Most unions in America are aligned with one of दो larger umbrella organizations : the AFL-CIO created in 1955, and the Change to जीत Federation जिससे विभाजित इससे the AFL-CIO in 2005.
दोनो एडवोकेट नीतियों and legislation on निमित्त of मजदूर in the United States और Canada, and take an active भूमिका in politics.
The afl-cio is विशेषकर चिंतित with global व्यापार issues.
In 2010, the percentage of मजदूर belonging to a union in the संयुक्त राज्य ( or कुल मजदूर संघ `` घनत्व '' ) was 11.4 %, compared to 18.4 % in Germany, 27.5 % in कनाडा, और 70 % in Finland.
संघ membership in the private sector has गिरे अंतर्गत 7 % — levels नहीं seen since 1932.
Unions allege that employer-incited opposition रै contributed to this decline in membership.
the most prominent unions हैं among public sector कर्मचारी such as शिक्षक और police.
सदस्यों of unions हैं disproportionately पुरानी, पुरूष और residents of the Northeast, the Midwest, and California.
संघ workers average 10-30 % उच्चतर अदा than non-union in America after controlling लिये individual, जॉब, और labor market characteristics.
हालांकि much छोटी compared to उनके शिखर सदस्यता in the 1950s, अमरीकी संघ remain a prominent political factor, दोनो through mobilization of उनके अपना memberships और through coalitions with like-minded activist organizations around मुद्दे such as अप्रवासी rights, trade policy, health परवाह, and जीना wage अभियान.
To लड़ो कथित नियोक्ता anti-union programs, unions are currently वकालत new `` card जाँच `` संघीय विधान कि would आवश्यकता employers to bargain with a संघ if अधिक than 50 % of workers हस्ताक्षरित फ़ॉर्म, or `` cards, '' stating they wish to be represented by कि union.
the current procedure involves waiting 45 to 90 दिनों for a federally supervised secret-ballot employee referendum on the subject.
The economist जोसेफ stiglitz रै asserted that, `` दमदार unions have helped to reduce असमानता, whereas weaker unions have बना it easier for ceos, sometimes working with मार्केट शक्तियां कि वे have helped shape, to increase it. ''
the मनाही in unionization चूंकि WWII in the संयुक्त States रै महरूम संबद्ध with a pronounced वृद्धि in income and माल असमानता.
A Christian Lacroix fashion बुटीक
A बुटीक is a छोटी खरीदारी outlet, especially एक that specializes in elite and fashionable वस्तुएं such as कपडे और आभूषण.
the word is फ्रेंच for `` दूकान '', via लैटिन इससे यूनानी ἀποθήκη ( apothēkē ), `` storehouse ''.
The term entered into रोज English उपयोग in the लेट 1960s when, for a brief period, लंदन थी the केन्द्र of the fashion trade.
Carnaby गली और the Kings Road यहूद the focus of much मीडिया ध्यान as घर to the most फैशनेबल boutiques of the era.
अभी the East of London रै been regenerated और अधिक boutiques पॉप up in फैशनेबल क्षेत्रों, such as मीनार Bridge सड़क.
it can भी refer to a specialised firm ऐसे as a boutique निवेश बैंको or boutique law कड़.
The word is often प्रयुक्त to describe a प्रॉपर्टी in the स्वतंत्र section of the hotel market ( ऐसे as The rockwell in लंदन ) in order to फर्क themselves इससे larger जंजीरों ( ऐसे as हिल्टन Hotels ).
in ऐसे cases the establishments aim to convey the विचार कि the operation is elite and highly specialised.
In the strictest sense of the word, boutiques would be one-of-a-kind but अधिक generally speaking, कुछ जंजीरों can be referred to as boutiques if वे specialize in particular styles.
recently, the पद `` boutique '' has प्रारंभ being applied to normally-mass-market वस्तुएं that हैं either niche or produced in intentionally छोटी संख्याएँ at very ऊँची prices.
This may be referred to as boutique निर्माण.
लिये उदाहरण, before the release of the वी, a समय Magazine आलेख suggested that निन्टेंडो could become a `` boutique video-game company '', producing games लिये niche ऑडियंस, rather than trying to compete सीधे साथ Microsoft and Sony.
In the traditional luxury- देखें उद्योग scalfaro International is माना as the precursor in manufacturing और बिक्री of bespoke घड़ियाँ.
The Swiss company उपयोग a highly flexible boutique निर्माण साईट, which allows producing छोटी series or भी अद्वितीय timepieces.
हालांकि कुछ boutiques specialise in hand-made items और other truly one-of-a-kind items, others बस produce t-shirts, stickers, and other फ़ैशन accessories in artificially छोटी runs and बेचें उन्हें at unusually ऊँची prices.
in the जल्दी 1990s Selena प्रारंभ निर्माण her own लकीर of महिलाओं 's clothing.
खोलने two boutiques labeled as `` Selena Etc. बुटीक & Salon '' One स्तिथ in कॉर्पस christi and one located in सैन अंतोनियो, टेक्सास.
One थी due to खोलें in monterrey, Mexico, in 1995 but due to उसके death it थी नहीं खोली.
Around 1999 the San अंतोनियो स्थान closed और the कॉर्पस christi location was closed in 2009.
In लेट 1990s कुछ European खुदरा व्यापारियों विकसित the idea of tailoring a दूकान towards a lifestyle theme, in the form of `` concept स्टोर्स '', which specialised in cross-selling without using separate departments.
One of the पहला अवधारणा स्टोर्स was 10 Corso como in मिलान, Italy followed by colette in Paris and quartier 206 in बर्लिन.
Several well-known अमरीकी जंजीरों such as Urban Outfitters, d-a-s-h, and The गैप, Australian कड़ी Billabong and, though कम आम, रब & टेलर adapted to the concept store ट्रेंड after 2000.
Navy संघीय Credit Union ( or नेवी संघीय ) is a क्रेडिट संघ headquartered in वियना, वर्जिनिया, chartered और regulated under the प्राधिकार of the National क्रेडिट संघ Administration ( ncua ) of the u.S. federal सरकारी.
Navy Federal is the largest natural सदस्य ( or खुदरा ) credit संघ in the संसार, दोनो in asset size and in membership.
as of September 2012, Navy संघीय था over $ 50 billion usd in एसेट, और over 4 लाख सदस्यों.
stevland Hardaway Morris ( born may 13, 1950 as Stevland Hardaway judkins ), known by his स्टेज name Stevie अचरज, is an American सिंगर, songwriter, और multi-instrumentalist, a child prodigy जो विकसित into एक of the most creative musical आंकड़े of the late 20th सदी.
अँधा since shortly after birth, Wonder हस्ताक्षरित साथ Motown 's Tamla लेबल at the आयु of ग्यारह, और continues to perform और रिकार्ड for motown to this दिन.
among अचरज 's बेहतरीन known works हैं singles such as `` अंधविश्वास ``, `` सर Duke ``, `` You हैं the Sunshine of my Life `` और `` I Just Called to कह i प्रेम You ``.
खूब ज्ञात एल्बम भी शामिल talking किताब, innervisions and गीतों in the Key of जीवन.
He has recorded more than तीस U.S. शीर्ष टेन हिट्स और प्राप्त twenty-two ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, the most कभी awarded to a male सोलो artist.
अचरज is also noted लिये his कार्य as an activist for राजनैतिक कल्याणकारी, सहित उसके 1980 अभियान to make Martin लूथर King, jr. 's जन्मदिवस a अवकाश in the United राज्य.
In 2009, Wonder was named a United Nations मेसेंजर of Peace.
In 2008, Billboard magazine released a सूची of the hot 100 all-time Top कलाकारों to celebrate the US singles चार्ट 's fiftieth वर्षगांठ, साथ Wonder at number five.
By popular vote, Stevie थी inducted into The soulmusic Hall of कीर्ति at soulmusic.com in दिसम्बर 2012.
मनस्ताप ( इससे the यूनानी ψυχή `` psyche '', लिये mind/soul, और -ωσις `` -ओएसआईs '', लिये असामान्य कंडीशन or derangement ) refers to an असामान्य कंडीशन of the mind, and is a generic psychiatric term लिये a दिमागी राज्य often वर्णित as involving a `` घाटा of सम्पर्क with वास्तविकता ``.
लोगों suffering from psychosis हैं described as psychotic.
Psychosis is दिए to the more कठोर फ़ॉर्म of मनोरोग disorder, during which hallucinations and delusions, gross excitement or stupor and impaired इनसाइट may occur.
the पद `` मनस्ताप '' is very व्यापक and can mean anything इससे अपेक्षाकृत सामान्य aberrant अनुभवों through to the complex and catatonic expressions of schizophrenia और bipolar प्रकार 1 disorder.
Moreover a चौड़ी किस्में of सेंट्रल बेचैन system diseases, from दोनो external substances और internal physiologic बीमारी, can उपज लक्षण of psychosis.
This led अनेक पेशेवर to कह that मनस्ताप is not specific पर्याप्त as a diagnostic term.
despite इस, `` मनस्ताप '' is generally दिए to noticeable deficits in normal बर्ताव ( negative signs ) और अधिक commonly to विविध types of hallucinations or delusional beliefs ( e.g. grandiosity, delusions of persecution ).
किसी exhibiting very obvious signs may be described as `` frankly psychotic '', whereas एक exhibiting very subtle signs could be classified in the श्रेणी of an `` attenuated psychotic risk syndrome ''.
An excess in dopaminergic signalling is traditionally linked to the positive लक्षण of मनस्ताप, विशेषकर those of schizophrenia.
This is thought to occur through a mechanism of aberrant salience of पर्यावरणीय stimuli.
Many antipsychotic दवाएँ accordingly target the dopamine system ; meta-analyses of placebo-controlled ट्रायल of ये drugs, however, दिखाएँ either no significant difference between ड्रग और placebo, or a very छोटी प्रभाव आकार, suggesting कि the pathophysiology of psychosis is much more जटिल than an overactive dopamine system.
People experiencing मनस्ताप may exhibit some personality परिवर्तन और thought विकार.
depending on इसके severity, इस may be accompanied by असामान्य or विचित्र behavior, as well as difficulty with सोशल बातचीत and पुतलियों in carrying out daily जीवन क्रियाएँ.
सामान्य grievous is a fictional अक्षर in the स्टार युद्धों universe.
a recurring antagonist, he is the Supreme Commander of the confederacy of Independent Systems, a राजनैतिक गुट of planetary systems waging war on the Galactic गणतंत्र.
Trained in सब seven forms of lightsaber combat by Count dooku, he is a निष्ठुर और powerful योद्धा devoted to Jedi 's destruction दौरान the Clone Wars.
His अधिनियमों of wanton आक्रामकता और high Jedi body गिनती होता संकेत the galaxy to दे him the nickname the knightslayer.
Though the notorious Jedi slayer थी the being in the galaxy दौरान the Clone Wars जो था मारे the most जेडी in सिंगल combat, he किया नहीं संकोच to भागो इससे battles he knew he would खोना.
Statistics खेल an important role in summarizing बेसबॉल performance and evaluating खिलाड़ी in the खेल.
चूंकि the flow of a baseball game रै natural breaks to it, और सामान्यतः खिलाड़ी अधिनियम individually rather than performing in क्लस्टर, the खेल lends itself to easy record-keeping and statistics.
Statistics have been रखा for professional बेसबॉल चूंकि the creation of the National League और American लीग, now भाग of प्रमुख League Baseball.
Many statistics are भी उपलब्धियाँ इससे बाहर of प्रमुख League बेसबॉल, इससे लीग ऐसे as the National Association of Professional आधार Ball खिलाड़ी and the नीग्रो लीग.
Dorothea lange 's Migrant Mother depicts अक्षम pea pickers in California, centering on फ्लोरेंस ओवेन्स Thompson, आयु 32, a माँ of seven children, in Nipomo, California, March 1936.
यूएसए सालाना रियल GDP इससे 1910–60, साथ the years of the Great अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
the बेरोजगारी रेट in the us 1910–1960, with the years of the ग्रेट अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The Great अवसाद थी a कठोर worldwide economic depression in the decade preceding World युद्ध ii.
The timing of the Great Depression varied across राष्ट्र, लकिन in सबसे countries it started in 1930 और lasted until the late 1930s or मध्य 1940s.
it थी the longest, most widespread, and deepest depression of the 20th century.
in the 21st सदी, the ग्रेट अवसाद is commonly used as an उदाहरण of कैसा far the world 's अर्थव्यवस्था can मनाही.
The अवसाद originated in the U.S., after the पतन in भण्डार prices कि began around सितंबर 4, 1929, and became worldwide न्यूज साथ the stock मार्केट क्रैश of अक्तूबर 29, 1929 ( known as ब्लैक मंगलवार ).
the Great Depression था devastating प्रभाव in countries समृद्ध और poor.
निजी आय, कर आय, profits और कीमतें dropped, while अंतरराष्ट्रीय trade plunged by more than 50 %.
Unemployment in the U.S. रोज़ to 25 %, and in some countries rose as ऊँची as 33 %.
शहरों all around the संसार यहूद hit मुश्किल, especially those dependent on भारी industry.
निर्माण was virtually halted in अनेक देशों.
खेती and ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों suffered as crop कीमतें fell by approximately 60 %.
Facing plummeting माँग साथ few alternate स्त्रोत of कार्य, क्षेत्रों dependent on प्राथमिक सेक्टर उद्योग ऐसे as cash cropping, खनन और लॉगिंग suffered the सबसे.
कुछ economies started to recover by the mid-1930s.
in अनेक countries, the negative effects of the ग्रेट अवसाद lasted until the समाप्त of संसार War ii.
A असामयिक ventricular संकुचन ( PVC ), भी ज्ञात as a असामयिक ventricular complex, ventricular premature contraction ( or जटिल or देवालय ) ( VPC ), ventricular असामयिक beat ( VPB ), or ventricular extrasystole ( ves ), is a अपेक्षाकृत common event where the धड़कन is initiated by purkinje fibres in the ventricles बल्कि than by the sinoatrial node, the सामान्य धड़कन initiator.
the electrical कार्यक्रम of the heart detected by the electrocardiogram allow a पीवीसी to be easily विशिष्ट from a सामान्य heart beat.
a पीवीसी may be perceived as a `` छोड़ा ताल `` or लगा as palpitations in the chest.
in a normal heartbeat, the ventricles contract after the atria have helped to fill उन्हें by contracting ; in इस रास्ता the ventricles can pump a maximized amount of blood both to the फेफड़े and to the rest of the देह.
in a पीवीसी, the ventricles अनुबंध first और before the atria have optimally भर the ventricles with blood, which अर्थात् that परिसंचरण is अकुशल.
however, single ताल PVC arrhythmias do not usually pose a danger and can be asymptomatic in healthy individuals.
विलियम गेरी Busey ( born जून 29, 1944 ), बेहतर known as Gary busey, is an American फिल्मी and स्टेज कर्ता, और artist.
he has appeared in a किस्में of films, including lethal Weapon, Point Break, and Under Siege, as well as अतिथि दिखावे on Gunsmoke, Walker, टेक्सास Ranger, Law & Order, and अनुगामी.
He थी nominated लिये an Academy पुरस्कार for बेहतरीन Actor in 1978 for उसके role in The Buddy Holly Story.
The anti-counterfeiting Trade अनुबंध ( ACTA ), is a बहुराष्ट्रीय treaty लिये the purpose of establishing international standards लिये intellectual property अधिकारों प्रवर्तन.
The अनुबंध aims to स्थापित an international legal फ्रेमवर्क लिये targeting नकली goods, generic दवाइयाँ and copyright infringement on the अंतरजाल, और होता create a new शासी body बाहर existing forums, such as the संसार व्यापार Organization, the संसार Intellectual प्रॉपर्टी संगठन, or the संयुक्त Nations.
the अनुबंध was हस्ताक्षरित in अक्तूबर 2011 by Australia, कनाडा, जापानी, Morocco, नई जीलैंड, Singapore, South कोरियाई, और the United राज्य.
in 2012, मैक्सिको, the European संघ और 22 countries which are सदस्य राज्य of the यूरोपीय Union हस्ताक्षरित as well.
एक signatory ( Japan ) रै ratified ( formally approved ) the अनुबंध, जिससे would come into फ़ोर्स in countries कि ratified it after अनुसमर्थन by six देशों.
Supporters have वर्णित the agreement as a जवाब to `` the बढ़ाएँ in global व्यापार of counterfeit goods और pirated copyright सुरक्षित works ''.
Trades संघ representing मजदूर in the music, film and TV उद्योग and large बौद्धिक property-based संगठन such as the Motion Picture Association of America and Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of अमेरिका यहूद क्रियाशील in the treaty 's विकास.
Opponents कह the सम्मेलन adversely affects आधारभूत rights सहित स्वतंत्रता of अभिव्यक्ति और privacy.
ACTA has भी been criticised by डॉक्टर Without सीमायें for endangering access to medicines in विकासशील countries.
The रहस्य प्रकृति of negotiations has excluded सिविल समाज groups, developing देशों and the general पब्लिक इससे the अनुबंध 's negotiation प्रक्रम and it has been वर्णित as policy laundering by critics including the Electronic Frontier न्यास and the entertainment Consumers संघ.
The signature of the EU और अनेक of its member राज्य resulted in the इस्तीफा in protest of the European Parliament 's appointed मुख्य investigator, rapporteur कादर Arif, as खूब as widespread protests आरपार Europe.
In 2012 the newly-appointed rapporteur, British mep David मार्टिन, अनुशंसित against the treaty, stating : `` the intended लाभ of इस अंतरराष्ट्रीय agreement are far outweighed by the संभावित खतरे to सिविल liberties ''.
On 4 July 2012, the यूरोपीय पार्लियामेंट अस्वीकृत the agreement in plenary session, साथ 478 मतदान against the treaty, 39 in पक्ष and 165 meps abstaining.
faw semi-trailer ट्रक in चीन
Tractor with side dump trailer semi-trailer
a ट्रैक्टर साथ an auto-transport semi-trailer.
Semi-trailer ट्रक साथ sleeper पीछे the टैक्सी.
A semi-trailer truck is an articulated गाडी कि consists of a towing इंजन, known as a tractor in the संयुक्त States and truck in अनेक अन्य places, संलग्न to one or अधिक semi-trailers to carry भाड़ा.
It is also known as a हस्तांतरण in Canada, prime mover in Australia, semi, tractor-trailer, truck and ट्रेलर, ट्रांसफ़र ट्रक, 18-wheeler, mack ट्रक, big रिग in the संयुक्त States, or artic, short लिये articulated लारी, in ब्रिटेन और आयरलैंड.
a semi-trailer does नहीं ट्रेल completely behind the towing vehicle, लकिन is attached at a point that is बस forward of the rear-most धुरी of the towing ईकाई.
This is किया so कि a भिन्न of the वज़न of the ट्रेलर is carried by the prime mover.
This व्यवस्था अर्थात् that दोनो tractor और semi-trailer होगा have a distinctly अलग design than a rigid ट्रक और trailer.
the Pittsburgh Steelers are a पेशेवर football टोली based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
the टोली फिलहाल belongs to the North Division of the अमरीकी Football Conference ( AFC ) in the National फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ).
Founded in, the स्टीलर्स हैं the oldest franchise in the AFC.
पिट्सबर्ग has जीती more सुपर कटोरी शीर्षक ( छह ), won more AFC Championship Games ( eight ) and निभाई in ( fifteen ) and hosted more ( eleven ) सम्मेलन championship games than any अन्य AFC or nfc team.
the Steelers share the record लिये most सुपर Bowl appearances साथ the डलास Cowboys ( eight ).
The Steelers won उनके सबसे हाल चैंपियनशिप, सुपर कटोरी XLIII, on February 1, 2009.
The स्टीलर्स were founded as the पिट्सबर्ग pirates on July 8, 1933, by आर्ट रूनी, लेने its original नाम from the baseball team of the वही नाम, as was common अभ्यास for एनएफएल टीमों to do at the समय.
The स्वामित्व of the Steelers रै remained within the रूनी परिवार चूंकि its founding.
the वर्तमान मालिक is Art 's बेटे, Dan Rooney, who has दिए much कंट्रोल of the मताधिकार to उसके son Art रूनी II.
Long one of the NFL 's flagship टीमों, the Steelers enjoy a large, फैली fanbase nicknamed steeler Nation.
The Steelers फिलहाल खेल उनके घर खेल at हाइन्ज़ फ़ील्ड on Pittsburgh 's उत्तर पक्ष in the उत्तर shore पड़ोस, which भी होस्ट the विश्वविद्यालयों of Pittsburgh Panthers.
Built in 2001, the stadium replaced Three नदियाँ स्टेडियम which hosted the Steelers for 31 seasons.
Prior to Three नदियाँ, the स्टीलर्स था निभाई उनके games in Pitt स्टेडियम and Forbes फ़ील्ड.
तीन अलग kinds of wheat और rye flour
आटा is a powder which is made by grinding खाद्यान्न दाने, or अन्य बीज or जड़ें ( जैसे कसावा ).
it is the प्रमुख ingredient of bread, जिससे is a staple खाना लिये अनेक cultures, making the उपलब्धता of adequate आपूर्तियाँ of flour a major आर्थिक and राजनैतिक समस्या at various times throughout history.
Wheat flour is one of the most important भोजन in यूरोपीय, North अमरीकी, Middle Eastern, भारतीय and उत्तर अफ़्रीकी संस्कृतियों, और is the defining संघटक in सबसे of उनके शैलियाँ of breads and pastries.
जबकि गेहूं is the सबसे आम base for आटा, corn आटा has महरूम important in mesoamerican भोजन चूंकि प्राचीन times, and remains a स्टेपल throughout the americas.
Rye आटा is an महत्वपूर्ण constituent of bread in much of सेंट्रल Europe, and rice can also be used in आटा, हालांकि this is relatively uncommon.
Heart रेट is the क्रमांक of heartbeats per ईकाई of time, typically expressed as beats प्रति minute ( bpm ).
दिल rate can vary as the देह 's need to absorb ऑक्सीजन and excrete carbon dioxide changes, ऐसे as during physical exercise, नींद, illness, or as a परिणाम of ingesting दवाएँ :
सेंट्रल बेचैन प्रणाली stimulants ऐसे as amphetamines बढ़ाएँ दिल रेट.
सेंट्रल nervous system depressants or sedatives decreases the दिल rate ( apart इससे some particularly अजीब ones with बराबर अजीब प्रभाव, ऐसे as केटामाइन जिससे can cause - amongst अनेक other things - stimulant-like effects ऐसे as tachycardia ).
There हैं अनेक ways in जिससे the heart रेट speeds up or slows bas.
Most involve stimulant-like endorphins और hormones होने released in the दिमाग, many of which are those that हैं 'forced'/'enticed ' out by the ingestion और processing of दवाएँ.
Due to individuals having a निरंतर blood आवाज़, एक of the physiological ways to उद्धार अधिक oxygen to an अंग is to बढ़ाएँ दिल rate to परमिट रक्त to pass by the organ अधिक प्रायः.
Normal resting दिल दरों दायरा from 60-100 bpm.
मंदनाड़ी is पारिभाषित as a resting heart rate नीचे 60 bpm.
however, दिल rates from 50 to 60 bpm are आम among healthy people and do not necessarily आवश्यकता खास attention.
Tachycardia is पारिभाषित as a resting दिल rate ऊपर 100 bpm, हालांकि persistent rest rates between 80-100 bpm, mainly if वे हैं present दौरान sleep, may be signs of hyperthyroidism or anemia ( देखिए below ).
Catherine II 's carved, painted and gilded Coronation Coach ( hermitage Museum )
A carriage is a wheeled vehicle for people, usually horse-drawn ; litters ( palanquins ) और sedan कुर्सियां are excluded, since they हैं wheelless vehicles.
The carriage is विशेषकर designed for निजी passenger उपयोग and for सुकून or elegance, हालांकि कुछ हैं भी प्रयुक्त to transport goods.
it may be लाइट, smart and fast or भारी, विशाल और comfortable.
carriages सामान्यतः have suspension using leaf springs, elliptical springs ( in the 19th century ) or leather strapping.
a public passenger vehicle होता not प्रायः be called a carriage – शर्तें लिये ऐसे शामिल stagecoach, charabanc और omnibus.
working वाहनों ऐसे as the ( four-wheeled ) wagon and ( two-wheeled ) कार्ट share महत्वपूर्ण parts of the history of the carriage, as is the fast ( two-wheeled ) रथ.
the 2004 Indian समंदर earthquake was an undersea megathrust earthquake that occurred at 00:58:53 utc on संडे, 26 December 2004, साथ an epicentre off the वेस्ट coast of सुमात्रा, इंडोनेशिया.
The भूकंप itself is known by the वैज्ञानिक जातियाँ as the sumatra–andaman earthquake.
The resulting सुनामी थी दिए विभिन्न names, सहित the 2004 भारतीय समंदर सुनामी, दक्षिण Asian सुनामी, Indonesian tsunami, और the Boxing दिन tsunami.
the earthquake was caused by subduction और triggered a श्रेणी of विनाशकारी tsunamis साथ the coasts of most landmasses bordering the Indian Ocean, हत्या over 230,000 लोगों in fourteen देशों, and inundating coastal समुदायों with waves up to high.
it थी एक of the deadliest natural disasters in recorded history.
इंडोनेशिया was the hardest-hit देश, followed by श्री लंका, India, and थाईलैंड.
With a परिमाण of Mw 9.1–9.3, it is the third largest भूकंप ever recorded on a seismograph.
The भूकंप had the longest अवधि of faulting ever observed, between 8.3 और 10 minutes.
It caused the entire ग्रह to vibrate as much as और triggered अन्य earthquakes as far दूर as अलास्का.
Its epicentre थी between simeulue और मेनलैंड इंडोनेशिया.
The दुर्दशा of the affected लोगों और देशों prompted a विश्वव्यापी humanitarian response.
In all, the विश्वव्यापी community donated more than $ 14 अरब ( 2004 US $ ) in humanitarian aid.
Steam rising from the Nesjavellir geothermal शक्ति स्टेशन in Iceland.
geothermal energy is थर्मल उर्जा उत्पन्न and stored in the Earth.
थर्मल उर्जा is the उर्जा that determines the temperature of matter.
The geothermal energy of the Earth 's crust originates इससे the original गठन of the ग्रह ( 20 % ) और from रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय of minerals ( 80 % ).
the geothermal gradient, जिससे is the difference in तापमान between the core of the planet और इसके surface, ड्राइव a continuous conduction of थर्मल उर्जा in the form of heat इससे the core to the surface.
The adjective geothermal originates from the Greek roots γη ( ge ), meaning धरती, और θερμος ( thermos ), meaning hot.
At the कोर of the Earth, thermal उर्जा is निर्मित by रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय और temperatures may पहुँचें over 5000 °C ( 9,000 °F ).
Heat conducts इससे the कोर to surrounding कूलर चट्टान.
The ऊँची तापमान and दबाव कारण some चट्टान to melt, creating magma संवहन upward चूंकि it is हल्का than the ठोस rock.
the मैग्मा heats चट्टान and water in the crust, sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °f ).
From hot springs, geothermal energy has महरूम प्रयुक्त for bathing चूंकि Paleolithic टाइम्स and for space हीटिंग चूंकि ancient Roman times, लकिन it is now better known लिये विद्युत पीढी.
Worldwide, about 10,715 megawatts ( MW ) of geothermal शक्ति is online in 24 countries.
an additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal हीटिंग क्षमता is संस्थापित for ज़िला हीटिंग, space heating, spas, industrial processes, desalination and agricultural अनुप्रयोग.
geothermal power is cost प्रभावी, reliable, चिरस्थायी, और environmentally दोस्ताना, but has historically महरूम limited to areas near tectonic थाली सीमाएँ.
Recent technological advances have dramatically विस्तारित the दायरा और size of viable संसाधन, विशेषकर लिये applications such as home heating, खोलने a संभावित for widespread शोषण.
Geothermal wells release greenhouse गैसों trapped deep within the earth, but ये emissions are much lower per उर्जा unit than those of fossil fuels.
As a परिणाम, geothermal शक्ति रै the संभावित to help mitigate वैश्विक warming if widely तैनात in place of fossil fuels.
The Earth 's geothermal संसाधन हैं theoretically अधिक than पर्याप्त to supply humanity 's energy needs, but तभी a बहुत small fraction may be profitably exploited.
खुदाई and खोजी for deep resources is very महंगी.
Forecasts for the भविष्य of geothermal शक्ति निर्भर on assumptions about प्रौद्योगिकी, energy prices, subsidies, और interest rates.
Pilot कार्यक्रम जैसे EWEB 's customer opt in Green Power कार्यक्रम दिखाएँ that customers would be willing to pay a little अधिक लिये a renewable energy सोर्स जैसे geothermal.
लकिन as a परिणाम of government assisted research और industry experience, the लागत of generating geothermal शक्ति रै decreased by 25 % over the पास्ट two decades.
In 2001, geothermal energy cost between दो and टेन सेंट प्रति सम्पात.
the पद घन पैर is an इम्पीरियल और US प्रथागत ( non- मीट्रिक ) unit of volume, प्रयुक्त in the संयुक्त राज्य and the संयुक्त Kingdom.
It is पारिभाषित as the आवाज़ of a घन with sides of one पैर ( 0.3048 m ) in लंबाई.
to calculate cubic feet multiply लंबाई x width x height.
hồ chí Minh ( उत्तरी Vietnamese pronunciation :, Southern वियतनामी उच्चारण : ) ; 19 may 1890 – 2 September 1969 ), born Nguyễn Sinh cung and also known as nguyễn Tất Thành और nguyễn ái quốc, थी a वियतनामी कम्युनिस्ट revolutionary leader जो थी प्रधान मंत्री ( 1945–1955 ) and अध्यक्ष ( 1945–1969 ) of the Democratic गणतंत्र of वियतनाम ( उत्तर वियतनाम ).
He was a कुंजी figure in the foundation of the लोकतांत्रिक Republic of Vietnam in 1945, as खूब as the People’s फौज of वियतनाम ( PAVN ) and the việt cộng ( NLF or vc ) दौरान the Vietnam युद्ध.
he led the Việt Minh स्वतंत्रता movement इससे 1941 onward, establishing the communist -नियमd Democratic गणतंत्र of वियतनाम in 1945 and defeating the फ्रेंच संघ in 1954 at the battle of Điện Biên Phủ.
he officially stepped bas from power in 1955 due to स्वास्थ्य problems, लकिन remained a अत्यधिक visible figurehead और प्रेरणा लिये those Vietnamese fighting लिये his cause—a संयुक्त, कम्युनिस्ट vietnam—until his मौत.
After the युद्ध, Saigon, पूंजी of the गणतंत्र of Vietnam, was renamed Hồ chí Minh नगर.
सब Roads Lead Home is a feature फिल्मी released on सितंबर 26, 2008.
निर्देशित by Dennis Fallon, it stars पीटर Boyle, Patton Oswalt, जेसन लंदन, vivien cardone, Vanessa Branch, Peter कायोटी, स्टीफन Milton, and allan Kayser.
The movie थी फिल्माया in and around Kansas City, मिसौरी.
The फिल्म बना its World प्रीमियर जनवरी 27 at the सांता बारबरा अंतरराष्ट्रीय Film पर्व.
The फिल्मी रै also recently महरूम in अनेक फिल्मी त्यौहार, and has प्राप्त bad समीक्षाएँ.
पीटर Boyle died पहले the movie 's रिलीज.
It was the पिछला movie he appeared in.
Sales कर in the United States are कर placed on the sale or पट्टे of goods और services in the United राज्य.
While no नेशनल सामान्य sales कर exists, the federal government levies अनेक नेशनल चयनात्मक बिक्री कर on the sale or lease of particular goods और services.
furthermore, forty-five states, the ज़िला of कोलंबिया, and गुआम थोपने सामान्य बिक्री taxes that लागू to the बिक्री or lease of most goods and some सेवाएं, and राज्य also may लेवी चयनात्मक sales taxes on the बिक्री or पट्टे of particular goods or services.
राज्य may also प्रतिनिधि to local governments the authority to थोपने additional general or चयनात्मक बिक्री taxes.
बिक्री कर is गणना by multiplying the खरीदें दाम by the applicable कर rate.
कर rates vary widely by क्षेत्राधिकार और दायरा इससे कम than 1 % to over 10 %.
बिक्री कर is एकत्रित by the विक्रेता at the समय of बिक्री.
उपयोग कर is self assessed by a खरीदार who has नहीं सशुल्क sales कर on a taxable purchase.
Unlike the मान added tax, a बिक्री tax is imposed तभी एकबार, at the retail स्तर.
however, in मामले where items are बेची at खुदरा अधिक than एकबार, ऐसे as प्रयुक्त cars, the बिक्री कर can be charged on the वही item indefinitely.
the definition of खुदरा sales और कया goods and सेवाएं हैं taxable vary among the राज्य.
Nearly सब jurisdictions provide numerous श्रेणी of goods and सेवाएं that हैं exempt इससे बिक्री tax, or taxed at घटाया दरों.
the purchase of goods for further manufacture or लिये पुनर्विक्रय is uniformly exempt from sales tax.
Most jurisdictions exempt खाना बेची in किराना स्टोर्स, prescription medications, and many agricultural supplies.
बिक्री taxes, including those imposed by लोकल सरकारें, हैं generally administered at the state level.
राज्य imposing sales tax आवश्यकता खुदरा विक्रेता to collect tax from customers, संचिका returns, और remit the कर to the राज्य.
प्रक्रियात्मक नियम vary widely.
विक्रेता generally जरूर collect कर इससे in-state purchasers unless the purchaser provides an exemption प्रमाणपत्र.
Most राज्य allow or require इलेक्ट्रॉनिक remittance.
A सेंट्रल प्रसंस्करण ईकाई ( CPU ), also referred to as a सेंट्रल processor ईकाई, is the hardware भीतर a computer that carries आउट the निर्देश of a कंप्यूटर कार्यक्रम by performing the basic arithmetical, logical, and input/output परिचालन of the system.
The term रै been in उपयोग in the कंप्यूटर industry at तनिक since the जल्दी 1960s.
the form, डिज़ाइन, and क्रियान्वयन of CPUs have changed over the कोर्स of उनके इतिहास, but their fundamental आपरेशन remains much the वही.
A कंप्यूटर can have अधिक than one cpu ; this is called multiprocessing.
Some integrated circuits ( ics ) can contain multiple CPUs on a single चिप ; those ics are पुकारा multi-core processors.
दो typical components of a CPU हैं the गणित लॉजिक ईकाई ( ALU ), which performs arithmetic और लॉजिकल परिचालन, and the control unit ( cu ), which extracts instructions from मेमोरी और decodes and चलाता उन्हें, calling on the ALU जब necessary.
Not all कम्प्यूटेशनल प्रणालियों rely on a central प्रसंस्करण ईकाई.
an array processor or vector processor रै अनेक समानांतर कम्प्यूटिंग तत्व, with no one unit considered the `` बीच ''.
In the distributed computing model, problems are हल by a distributed interconnected set of processors.
RFID chip next to a grain of rice.
इस chip contains a radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक field कुंडली कि modulates an external चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड to transfer a coded identification number जब queried by a reader यंत्र.
इस small प्रकार is incorporated in consumer products, and implanted in pets, लिये identification उद्देश्य.
radio-frequency identification ( rfid ) is the बेतार non-contact use of radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ील्ड to ट्रांसफ़र आंकड़ा, लिये the उद्देश्य of automatically identifying और ट्रैकिंग टैग संलग्न to वस्तुएँ.
the tags contain electronically भंडारित information.
कुछ टैग are powered और पढ़ा at short सीमाएँ ( a few मीटर ) via magnetic fields ( इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक प्रेरण ).
Others use a local शक्ति source such as a battery, or else have no बैटरी but collect उर्जा इससे the interrogating EM field, and तब act as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or uhf radio waves ( i.e., electromagnetic radiation at high बारंबारता ).
बैटरी powered टैग may operate at सैंकड़ों of meters.
Unlike a bar code, the टैग does नहीं necessarily need to be भीतर लकीर of sight of the रीडर, and may be अंतःस्थापित in the tracked object.
RFID tags हैं used in अनेक industries.
An RFID टैग संलग्न to an automobile दौरान production can be used to track its प्रगति through the assembly line.
दवाएँ can be tracked through warehouses.
Livestock और pets may have tags injected, allowing positive पहचान of the animal.
Since rfid tags can be संलग्न to clothing, possessions, or भी implanted भीतर लोगों, the possibility of पढना personally-linked information without consent has उठाया privacy चिंताएं.
Overtime is the राशि of समय someone works परे normal working घंटों.
सामान्य hours may be determined in अनेक रास्ताs:
by custom ( कया is माना healthy or reasonable by समाज ),
by practices of a given व्यापार or profession,
by legislation,
by agreement between employers and workers or their प्रतिनिधि.
Most nations have overtime मजदूर laws designed to dissuade or prevent employers इससे forcing उनके कर्मचारी to कार्य excessively long घंटों.
ये कानून may take into account अन्य considerations than the humanitarian, ऐसे as preserving the स्वास्थ्य of workers so कि वे may continue to be उत्पादक, or increasing the overall level of employment in the अर्थव्यवस्था.
एक आम approach to regulating overtime is to require employers to अदा workers at a higher hourly रेट for ओवरटाइम कार्य.
कंपनियाँ may चुनें to अदा workers higher overtime pay even if नहीं obliged to do so by विधि, विशेषकर if they मानना कि वे face a पिछड़ा झुकने supply curve of श्रमिक.
ओवरटाइम pay rates can कारण workers to work longer घंटों than they would at a flat hourly rate.
Overtime कानून, attitudes toward overtime और hours of work vary greatly इससे country to देश और between different आर्थिक सेक्टर.
कल्पना of links between pages on a विक using a force-directed लेआउट.
force-directed आलेख drawing algorithms हैं a class of algorithms लिये आरेखण graphs in an aesthetically pleasing रास्ता.
उनके purpose is to position the नोड of a आलेख in two-dimensional or three-dimensional स्पेस so कि सब the edges हैं of अधिक or कम equal length और वहीँ हैं as few crossing edges as संभावित, by assigning forces among the नियत of किनारे and the set of नोड, आधारित on their relative positions, and then using ये शक्तियां either to simulate the motion of the किनारे और nodes or to minimize their energy.
जबकि आलेख drawing can be a मुश्किल प्रॉब्लम, force-directed algorithms, होने physical simulations, usually require no special knowledge परिचय आलेख theory such as planarity.
खरीदना शक्ति ( sometimes retroactively called adjusted for inflation ) is the राशि of goods or सेवाएं कि can be purchased साथ a unit of करेंसी.
For उदाहरण, if you था taken एक डालर to a store in the 1950s, you would have been समर्थ to ख़रीदे a वृहद क्रमांक of items than तुम would today, indicating कि तुम होता have था a वृहद purchasing शक्ति in the 1950s.
करेंसी can be either a कमोडिटी money, like सुनहरा or silver, or fiat करेंसी, or free-floating market-valued करेंसी like us डॉलर.
As Adam स्मिथ noted, having money gives एक the क्षमता to `` कमांड '' others ' labor, so purchasing शक्ति to कुछ extent is power over अन्य लोगों, to the extent that they हैं willing to व्यापार उनके labor or goods लिये धन or currency.
if one 's monetary income stays the वही, but the price level increases, the purchasing power of कि income falls.
Inflation does नहीं सदा imply falling purchasing शक्ति of one 's money income since it may rise तेज़ than the दाम level.
A उच्चतर real income means a higher purchasing power चूंकि real आय refers to the income समायोजित for महंगाई.
लिये a दाम index, its value in the आधार साल is usually सामान्यीकृत to a value of 100.
The purchasing power of a ईकाई of करेंसी, कह a डालर, in a दिए year, expressed in डॉलर of the आधार साल, is 100/p, where P is the price index in that साल.
So, by definition the खरीदना शक्ति of a डालर decreases as the price level उदय.
The purchasing शक्ति in today 's money of an amount c of धन, t years into the भविष्य, can be computed साथ the सूत्र लिये the present मान :
where in इस मामला i is an assumed भविष्य annual महंगाई रेट.
Education in दक्षिण कोरियाई is viewed as being crucial for success और प्रतियोगिता is consequently very heated and fierce.
A सेंट्रल प्रशासन oversees the process लिये the education of children इससे किंडरगार्टन to the third and फाइनल year of ऊँची स्कूल.
Mathematics, science, Korean, अंग्रेज़ी, and सोशल studies हैं generally considered to be the most important subjects.
सामान्यतः physical शिक्षा is नहीं considered important as it is नहीं recognised, by the generally academic elitist दक्षिण Korean populace, as education और इसलिए many स्कूलों कमी high-quality gymnasiums and varsity एथलेटिक्स.
दक्षिण कोरियाई was the पहला देश in the संसार to provide high-speed अंतरजाल access to सब primary, जूनियर, and ऊँची schools.
Although South Korean विद्यार्थी प्रायः rank अत्यधिक on अंतरराष्ट्रीय तुलनात्मक आकलन when compared to students of most पश्चिमी education systems, the South कोरियाई education system is criticised for emphasising too much upon passive learning and memorisation.
The South कोरियाई शिक्षा system is बल्कि notably strict and overly संरचित as compared to its counterparts in most पश्चिमी समाजों.
भी, the prevalence of non-school for-profit निजी institutes ऐसे as अकादमियों or cram-schools ( Hagwon [ 학원 ] ), which too emphasise on passive memorisation, as opposed to conceptual understanding, in विद्यार्थी are criticised as a प्रमुख social प्रॉब्लम.
The My lai Massacre (, ;,, or ) थी the Vietnam War द्रव्यमान हत्या of between 347 और 504 निहत्थे civilians in दक्षिण वियतनाम on March 16, 1968, by संयुक्त States फौज soldiers of `` Charlie '' Company of 1st बटालियन, 20th Infantry Regiment, 11th Brigade of the Americal प्रभाग.
पीड़ितों included women, men, children, and infants.
Some of the महिलाओं were gang-raped and उनके लाशें were बाद found to be mutilated and अनेक महिलाओं यहूद allegedly raped prior to the हत्याओं.
जबकि 26 u.S. soldiers were initially charged साथ criminal offenses for their क्रियाएँ at Mỹ lai, तभी दूसरी लेफ्टिनेंट विलियम Calley, a प्लाटून नेता in चार्ली कम्पनी, थी convicted.
मिला अपराधी of हत्या 22 ग्रामीणों, he was originally दिए a जीवन वाक्य, लकिन only served three and a half years अंतर्गत हाउस arrest.
the massacre took place in the hamlets of my Lai and My Khe of बेटे my village.
the event is also ज्ञात as the बेटे my नरसंहार, especially in the वियतनामी state media.
the U.S. सैन्य codeword for the `` viet Cong stronghold '' थी `` Pinkville ''.
The घटना prompted वैश्विक outrage जब it became पब्लिक knowledge in 1969.
the massacre भी increased घरेलू opposition to the u.S. involvement in the Vietnam War.
तीन U.S. servicemen जो had tried to halt the नरसंहार and protect the wounded यहूद initially denounced by अनेक u.s. कांग्रेसियों as traitors.
They प्राप्त नफ़रत mail and death threats और मिला mutilated animals on उनके doorsteps.
the three यहूद later widely praised और decorated by the फौज लिये their heroic actions.
The hijackers in the September 11 attacks यहूद 19 मेन संबद्ध साथ al-Qaeda, and 15 of the 19 were citizens of सऊदी अरब.
अन्य यहूद इससे Egypt, Lebanon, and the UAE.
the hijackers were व्यवस्थित into चार टीमों, प्रत्येक led by a pilot-trained hijacker साथ four `` मांसपेशी hijackers '' जो were प्रशिक्षित to help subdue the pilots, यात्री, and crew.
the first hijackers to arrive in the United States were खालिद al-Mihdhar और Nawaf al-hazmi, who settled in the San डिएगो क्षेत्रफल in January 2000.
वे यहूद followed by three hijacker-pilots, Mohamed Atta, Marwan al-shehhi, and Ziad Jarrah जल्दी in the summer of 2000 to undertake flight training in दक्षिण Florida.
The चौथी hijacker-pilot, Hani Hanjour, arrived in San डिएगो in December 2000.
the rest of the `` मांसपेशी hijackers '' arrived in the spring and early summer of 2001, just महीने पहले the September 11 हमले.
abū al-Qāsim muḥammad ibn ʿabd Allāh ibn ʿabd al-muṭṭalib ibn hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 जून 632 ), also transliterated as मुहम्मद ( ), थी a धार्मिक, political, और military leader इससे मक्का who unified अरब into a single धार्मिक polity अंतर्गत Islam.
He is believed by मुसलमान और bahá'ís to be a मेसेंजर और नबी of God.
मुहम्मद is almost universally considered by Muslims as the पिछला prophet sent by God for mankind.
non-muslims regard Muhammad as the संस्थापक of islam.
Muslims consider him to be the restorer of an unaltered original monotheistic faith of Adam, Noah, Abraham, मूसा, Jesus, और other नबियों.
born in परिचय 570 ce in the Arabian नगर of मक्का, he was अनाथ at an early आयु और brought up under the care of his uncle abu तालिब.
he बाद worked mostly as a व्यापारी, as well as a shepherd, और थी first married by age 25.
होने in the आदत of periodically retreating to a गुफा in the surrounding mountains लिये अनेक nights of seclusion and prayer, he बाद reported कि it was there, at आयु 40, कि he प्राप्त उसके first revelation इससे परमेश्वर.
तीन सालो after this event Muhammad प्रारंभ preaching ये खुलासे publicly, proclaiming कि `` God is One ``, that पूरा `` आत्मसमर्पण '' to Him ( lit.
islām ) is the only रास्ता ( dīn ) स्वीकार्य to परमेश्वर, and कि he खुद was a prophet और messenger of परमेश्वर, in the वही रग as other Islamic नबियों.
Muhammad gained few अनुसरणकर्ता early on, और was met साथ दुश्मनी from some Meccan जनजातियों ; he and उसके followers were treated harshly.
to एस्केप persecution, मुहम्मद sent some of his अनुसरणकर्ता to Abyssinia पहले he and उसके followers in Mecca migrated to मदीना ( तब ज्ञात as Yathrib ) in the year 622.
इस event, the हिज्र, marks the beginning of the Islamic पंचांग, जिससे is भी ज्ञात as the Hijri Calendar.
In Medina, मुहम्मद संयुक्त the जनजातियों under the संविधान of Medina.
बाद आठ years of fighting साथ the Meccan tribes, उसके अनुसरणकर्ता, जो by then था grown to 10,000, took control of Mecca in the largely peaceful conquest of Mecca.
he destroyed the pagan idols in the नगर and then भेजा his followers आउट to destroy all of the बाकी pagan मंदिरों in पूर्वी अरब.
in 632, a few महीने बाद returning to मदीना इससे The विदाई Pilgrimage, मुहम्मद fell ill and died.
By the समय of उसके मौत, most of the Arabian Peninsula था converted to Islam, and he था संयुक्त Arabia into a सिंगल मुस्लिम religious polity.
The खुलासे ( or ayah, lit.
`` Signs [ of परमेश्वर ] '' ) — जिससे Muhammad reported receiving जबतक उसके death – form the verses of the कुरान, regarded by मुसलमान as the `` Word of परमेश्वर '' और around which the धर्म is based.
Besides the Quran, Muhammad 's जीवन ( sira ) और परंपराओं ( sunnah ) हैं भी upheld by मुसलमान as the sources of शरीयत विधि.
वे discuss Muhammad और अन्य नबियों of islam साथ reverence, adding the phrase सलाम be upon उसे whenever their names are mentioned.
While conceptions of Muhammad in medieval Christendom and premodern टाइम्स were largely negative, appraisals in modern history have महरूम far कम so.
इस is a list of टेबल of the सत्यापित oldest people in the world in ordinal रैंक, ऐसे as oldest person or oldest man.
in ये टेबल, a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if his or her claim रै been validated by an अंतरराष्ट्रीय body कि specifically सौदे in longevity research, such as the जराविद्या Research Group ( grg ) or गिनीज World Records.
the longest unambiguously documented इंसान lifespan is कि of jeanne calment of फ़्रांस ( 1875–1997 ), who died at आयु 122 सालो, 164 दिनों.
She met विंसेंट van Gogh जब वो थी 12 or 13.
इस led to news media attention in 1985, after calment turned 110.
Subsequent छानबीन मिला documentation for calment 's आयु, beyond any reasonable सवाल, in the रिकॉर्ड of her native city, Arles, France.
More प्रमाण of calment 's जीवनकाल रै महरूम उत्पादित than लिये कोई other supercentenarian ; her मामला serves as an archetype in the methodology लिये verifying the आयु of the world 's oldest लोगों.
the longest undisputed lifespan for male supercentenarians is कि of Jiroemon किमुरा, जो currently जीवनदान in Japan और is आयु as of.
Since the death of 115-year old दीना Manfredini of the संयुक्त States, on 17 December 2012, Kimura, born 19 अप्रैल 1897, is the oldest जीना व्यक्ति in the world whose age can be documented.
He रै भी been the oldest जीना man चूंकि the मौत of 114-year बूढ़ा वाल्टर breuning on 14 अप्रैल 2011.
चूंकि the मौत of 115-year बूढ़ा koto Okubo of जापानी on 12 January 2013, the oldest जीना woman रै been -year-old misao okawa, also इससे जापानी, born on 5 कूच 1898.
इस is a timeline of the African-American सिविल Rights गति.
the सिविल Rights गति was a स्वतंत्रता struggle by अफ़्रीकी Americans in the 1950s और 1960s to लाभ equality.
the goals of the movement यहूद स्वतंत्रता from पक्षपात, बराबर opportunity in employment, education और housing, the right to vote and बराबर अभिगम to public facilities.
भारी metal ( often referred to as metal ) is a विधा of rock म्यूज़िक कि विकसित in the late 1960s और early 1970s, largely in the संयुक्त Kingdom and in the संयुक्त States.
With जड़ें in ब्लूज़ चट्टान and साइकेडेलिक rock, the bands that created heavy metal developed a thick, विशाल ध्वनि, characterized by highly प्रवर्धित distortion, विस्तारित guitar solos, emphatic बीट्स, and overall loudness.
Heavy मेटल lyrics and प्रदर्शन शैलियाँ हैं generally associated साथ मर्दानगी and machismo.
The first heavy मेटल bands ऐसे as Led Zeppelin, Deep Purple and Black Sabbath attracted विशाल ऑडियंस, though they were प्रायः derided by critics, a औकात common throughout the history of the genre.
in the mid-1970s Judas Priest helped spur the genre 's evolution by discarding much of its ब्लूज़ influence ; motörhead introduced a punk rock sensibility and an increasing emphasis on गति.
Bands in the New वेव of British भारी मेटल such as Iron maiden followed in a समान रग.
Before the end of the दशक, heavy metal fans became ज्ञात as `` metalheads `` or `` headbangers ``.
During the 1980s, glam मेटल became a वाणिज्यिक force with groups like Mötley Crüe और ज़हर.
भूमिगत scenes उत्पादित an array of more extreme, aggressive शैलियाँ : thrash मेटल broke into the मुख्यधारा with bands such as Metallica, मेगाडेथ, Slayer, and एंथ्रेक्स, जबकि other styles of the most extreme subgenres of metal जैसे death metal and black metal remain subcultural phenomena.
चूंकि the mid-1990s, popular शैलियाँ ऐसे as nu मेटल, which often incorporates तत्व of grunge और हिप hop ; and metalcore, जिससे मिश्रणों extreme metal साथ hardcore पंक, have further विस्तारित the definition of the genre.
The far-right ( भी ज्ञात as the चरम सही ) refers to the उच्चतम degree of rightism in right-wing politics.
दूर सही राजनीती involves support of दमदार or complete सोशल पदानुक्रम in society, और supports सर्वोच्चता of निश्चित individuals or समूह deemed to be innately श्रेष्ठ or अस्तबलों जो हैं to be more valued than those deemed to be innately inferior or undesirable.
The far right 's advocacy of supremacism is आधारित on कया its adherents perceive as स्वाभाविक characteristics of people that can not be changed.
This स्टैंड as a पाइंट of अंतर with the centre-right 's attribution of behaviours, ऐसे as laziness or decadence, as the primary स्त्रोत of social inequalities.
The centre right—unlike the far right—claims that लोगों can end their behavioural हीनता through बदलना उनके आदतें और choices.
the original far सही, which उभरा in फ़्रांस बाद the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति, refused to accept the French गणतंत्र and supported a counter-revolution to restore the French साम्राज्य and aristocracy.
the far right is commonly संबद्ध साथ व्यक्तियों or समूह जो थाम extreme राष्ट्रवादी, xenophobic, racist, धार्मिक fundamentalist or प्रतिक्रियावादी views.
the सबसे extreme-right movements have धड़ा दमन और genocide against समूह of people on the basis of their alleged inferiority.
Thomas hobbes of Malmesbury ( 5 अप्रैल 1588 – 4 December 1679 ), in कुछ older ग्रन्थ थामस हाब्स of malmsbury, थी an English पारस, best known आज लिये उसके work on राजनैतिक दर्शनशास्त्र.
उसके 1651 book Leviathan established the न्यास for सबसे of पश्चिमी political philosophy इससे the परिप्रेक्ष्य of social अनुबंध theory.
hobbes was a champion of absolutism लिये the sovereign, but he also विकसित some of the fundamentals of यूरोपीय उदार thought : the सही of the व्यक्तिगत ; the natural equality of सब मेन ; the कृत्रिम अक्षर of the राजनैतिक order ( जिससे led to the later भेद between सिविल society and the state ) ; the view कि all legitimate political शक्ति must be `` प्रतिनिधि '' और based on the सहमति of the लोगों ; and a उदार interpretation of विधि which पत्ते people free to do whatever the law does not explicitly forbid.
He was एक of the founders of modern political दर्शनशास्त्र.
His understanding of इंसानो as being matter और गति, obeying the same physical laws as other matter और गति, remains influential ; and his खाता of human nature as self-interested cooperation, और of political समुदायों as being based upon a `` सोशल अनुबंध `` remains एक of the प्रमुख विषय of political philosophy.
in जोड to राजनैतिक दर्शनशास्त्र, hobbes also contributed to a diverse सरणी of other fields, including history, भूगोल, the भौतिकी of gases, धर्मशास्त्र, ethics, और general philosophy.
Emotional intelligence ( EI ) is the क्षमता to identify, assess, and control the भाव of oneself, of others, and of समूह.
it can be विभाजित into ability EI और trait ei.
क्षमता ei is प्रायः measured using maximum प्रदर्शन परीक्षण और रै stronger संबंध साथ परंपरागत प्रज्ञा, whereas trait EI is usually measured using self-report questionnaires and has stronger संबंध साथ व्यक्तित्व.
Criticisms have केन्द्रित on whether EI is a रियल intelligence and whether it has वृद्धिशील वैध over IQ and the बिग Five personality traits.
Heredity is the गुजर of traits to औलाद from इसके parents or पूर्वज.
This is the process by which an औलाद cell or organism acquires or becomes predisposed to the विशेषताएँ of its parent cell or सजीव.
through आनुवंशिकता, variations exhibited by individuals can accumulate और cause कुछ प्रजाति to evolve.
The study of आनुवंशिकता in biology is पुकारा आनुवंशिकी, which includes the field of epigenetics.
For संयुक्त राज्य individual आय कर, adjusted सकल income ( agi ) is total gross income ऋण specific reductions.
Taxable आय is समायोजित सकल income ऋण allowances लिये personal exemptions and itemized deductions.
For सबसे individual कर purposes, AGI is more relevant than सकल आय.
Gross income is sales दाम of goods or property, ऋण लागत of the property बेची, plus अन्य आय.
It includes मजदूरी, interest, dividends, business income, rental income, और all अन्य प्रकार of income.
समायोजित सकल आय is सकल income कम deductions from a कारोबार or rental कार्यकलाप और 21 other विशिष्ट items.
अनेक deductions ( e.g. medical खर्च और miscellaneous itemized deductions ) हैं limited based on a प्रतिशत of agi.
Certain phase outs, सहित those of lower tax rates और itemized deductions, are आधारित on levels of agi.
अनेक states base राज्य आय tax on agi with certain deductions.
`` Lazy नजर '' is the third सिंगल from Silversun pickups ' debut एल्बम carnavas.
the band performed the सोंग on the लेट दिखाएँ साथ दाउद लेटरमैन, The tonight Show with jay लीनो, बाद साथ jools हॉलैंड, and पिछला कॉल with कार्सन Daly.
The सोंग is a playable track on चट्टान Band 2 और गिटार Hero : World Tour.
an वैकल्पिक संस्करण of the सोंग, साथ a length of 7:27, थी played on XMU पहले the shorter संस्करण थी played on FM and other XM चैनल्स.
This संस्करण was featured on their demo cd ( जिससे featured early versions of चार ट्रैक्स ).
A telephone prefix is the पहला set of digits of a telephone क्रमांक ; in the उत्तर American Numbering योजना countries ( देश कोड 1 ), it is the first तीन अंक of a seven-digit phone क्रमांक.
in अन्य देशों दोनो the उपसर्ग and the क्रमांक may have different lengths.
It shows जिससे एक्सचेंज the बाकी संख्याएँ refer to.
A full टेलीफोन number is usually made up of देश code ( required for international काल्स only ), क्षेत्रफल code ( जरूरी for काल्स between टेलीफोन areas ), उपसर्ग, and सदस्य क्रमांक.
कुछ स्थान सीमित निश्चित prefixes to फैक्स numbers or cell फोन तभी ; in other स्थान ऐसे समर्पित prefixes हैं नहीं used.
as telephone प्रौद्योगिकी उन्नत, the precise significance of the उपसर्ग became धुंधला in अनेक places ; 485 in London, UK, थी once the GULliver exchange, but अभी 44207485xxxx is बस माना one of अनेक number ब्लॉक served by the CLKEN Kentish कस्बा एक्सचेंज ; 4420770703xx is another.
metformin ( bp, pronounced, ; originally बेची as glucophage ) is an मौखिक antidiabetic ड्रग in the biguanide क्लास.
it is the first-line drug of choice लिये the treatment of type 2 मधुमेह, in particular, in overweight और मोटे लोगों और those with सामान्य kidney function.
इसके use in gestational मधुमेह has been सीमित by सुरक्षा चिंताएं.
It is also प्रयुक्त in the उपचार of polycystic ovary syndrome, और रै been investigated लिये अन्य रोगों जहाँ insulin प्रतिरोध may be an महत्वपूर्ण factor.
Metformin works by suppressing glucose उत्पादन by the जिगर.
Metformin is the only antidiabetic drug that रै महरूम conclusively दिखाया to prevent the cardiovascular complications of diabetes.
It helps reduce LDL cholesterol and triglyceride levels, और is नहीं संबद्ध साथ वज़न लाभ.
, metformin is एक of only दो मौखिक antidiabetics in the संसार Health संगठन मॉडल सूची of अनिवार्य दवाइयाँ ( the अन्य होने glibenclamide ).
When विहित appropriately, metformin कल्याणकारी few प्रतिकूल प्रभाव ( the सबसे आम is जठरांत्र परेशान ) और is संबद्ध साथ a low risk of hypoglycemia.
Lactic acidosis ( a buildup of lactate in the रक्त ) can be a गंभीर concern in overdose and when it is prescribed to people with contraindications, but वरना, वहीँ is no significant risk.
पहला synthesized और found to reduce blood sugar in the 1920s, metformin was forgotten for the next two दशकों as शोध shifted to insulin और अन्य antidiabetic drugs.
Interest in metformin थी rekindled in the लेट 1940s after अनेक reports that it could reduce रक्त sugar स्तर in लोगों, and in 1957, फ्रेंच चिकित्सक जां sterne प्रकाशित the पहला clinical विचारण of metformin as a उपचार लिये diabetes.
it थी introduced to the United किंगडम in 1958, कनाडा in 1972, and the United States in 1995.
Metformin is now believed to be the सबसे widely prescribed antidiabetic drug in the world ; in the United राज्य alone, अधिक than 48 लाख prescriptions यहूद filled in 2010 लिये इसके जेनेरिक formulations.
The माउंट rushmore नेशनल Memorial is a मूर्तिकला carved into the granite face of Mount Rushmore निकट Keystone, South डकोटा, in the United States.
sculpted by danish-american Gutzon borglum और his बेटे, lincoln Borglum, माउंट Rushmore सुविधाएँ sculptures of the heads of four संयुक्त States राष्ट्रपतियों : जार्ज Washington, थामस जेफरसन, Theodore Roosevelt और अब्राहम lincoln.
The संपूर्ण memorial covers and is ऊपर समुद्र स्तर.
The tallest mountain in the region is harney शिखर ( ).
दक्षिण Dakota इतिहासकार दोने Robinson is credited with conceiving the विचार of carving the likenesses of famous people into the ब्लैक पहाड़ियाँ region of South Dakota in अनुक्रम to प्रचार पर्यटन in the region.
रॉबिन्सन 's initial विचार थी to sculpt the Needles ; however, gutzon Borglum rejected the needles site क्युकी of the ग़रीब विशेषता of the granite and strong opposition इससे पर्यावरणविद and Native American groups.
वे settled on the माउंट rushmore location, which भी has the लाभ of facing southeast लिये अधिकतम सूर्य एक्सपोज़र.
रॉबिन्सन चाही it to विशेषता western heroes like लुईस and क्लार्क, रेड बादल और Buffalo Bill कोड़ी लकिन borglum decided the मूर्तिकला चाहिए have a अधिक national फ़ोकस, and chose the चार राष्ट्रपतियों whose likenesses would be carved into the mountain.
After securing संघीय funding, construction on the मेमोरियल began in 1927, और the राष्ट्रपतियों ' चेहरों were समाप्त between 1934 और 1939.
upon Gutzon Borglum 's death in कूच 1941, उसके son Lincoln Borglum took over construction.
हालांकि the आरंभिक अवधारणा पुकारा लिये प्रत्येक अध्यक्ष to be चित्रित from सिर to कमर, lack of funding मजबूर construction to end in लेट October 1941.
The U.S. National Park सेवा took control of the memorial in 1933, जबकि it थी still under construction, and रै managed the मेमोरियल to the उपस्थित दिन.
it attracts nearly three million people annually.
charvet पोशाक shirt from the 1930s, norsk Folkemuseum, Oslo.
a कमीज़, dress shirt, button-front, button-front कमीज़, or button-up कमीज़ is a garment साथ a collar, a full-length खोलने at the front from the collar to the हेम, and sleeves with cuffs.
शर्ट हैं predominantly प्रयुक्त by मेन, since महिलाओं usually पहनें blouses.
the front opening is fastened using बटन or studs, और the cuffs बंद with बटन or कफ कड़ी.
शर्ट are normally made इससे woven cloth, और are often accompanied by a jacket and tie, for उदाहरण साथ a सूट or formalwear, but shirts are भी worn अधिक casually.
in British अंग्रेज़ी, dress shirt अर्थात् specifically the more औपचारिक evening परिधान worn साथ black- or white- tie, also discussed नीचे.
Some of these औपचारिक shirts have stiff fronts and detachable छल्लों attached with collar studs.
The term `` button-down '' ( जिससे refers a प्रकार of कमीज़ जिससे has a collar fastened bas by बटन ) is sometimes used in गलती to लागू to सब shirts ( with or without buttoned down छल्लों ), being used as a synonym for `` button-up '' or `` button-front ''.
प्रशासनिक Professionals Day ( also known as Secretaries दिन or Admin Day ) is an unofficial धर्मनिरपेक्ष अवकाश observed in several देशों to recognize the work of secretaries, प्रशासनिक assistants, receptionists, and अन्य administrative support पेशेवर.
in उत्तर अमेरिका, it is celebrated on the बुधवार of the पिछला पूरा सप्ताह of April ( April 24 in 2013 ).
In France it is मनाये on the third Thursday in April ( April 18 in 2013 ).
in Australia it is मनाये on the पहला Friday in May
Blasting can be:
Abrasive धमाकेदार
Blast भट्टी
चट्टान blasting
निकोलस Poussin ( ; 15 June 1594 – 19 November 1665 ) was the अग्रणी painter of the शास्त्रीय French Baroque style, although he खर्च most of उसके working जीवन in Rome.
उसके work is characterized by स्पष्टता, logic, और अनुक्रम, और favors लकीर over color.
Until the 20th century he remained a major inspiration लिये such classically oriented artists as Jacques-Louis David, jean-auguste-dominique Ingres and Paul cézanne.
he worked in Rome for a वृत्त of अग्रणी collectors there and elsewhere, मगर लिये a short काल जब Cardinal Richelieu ordered him वापस to फ़्रांस to serve as पहला चित्रकार to the King.
सबसे of his works are इतिहास paintings of religious or पौराणिक subjects कि बहुत often have a large landscape तत्व.
Jackie Keith whitley ( जुलाई 1, 1954Stambler, Irwin, and grelun landon ( 2000 ). - Country म्यूज़िक : The Encyclopedia. - New York : St. Martin 's दबायें. - p.533. - isbn 978-0-312-26487-1.—Carlin, Richard ( 2003 ). - देश म्यूज़िक : a Biographical Dictionary. - नई York : Routledge - p.427. - ISBN 978-0-415-93802-0.—Larkin, Colin ( 1995 ). - The Guinness ज्ञानकोष of लोकप्रिय Music. - नई यॉर्क : Stockton दबायें - p.4462. - isbn 978-0-85112-662-3.—Stanton, Scott ( 2003 ). - the Tombstone पर्यटक : Musicians. - नई York : Pocket Books. - p.395. - ISBN 978-0-7434-6330-0.—Hicks, जोकर. - `` सिंगर कैथ whitley 's Memory Alive through Songs, प्रेम in घर कस्बा ''. - The Kentucky पोस्ट. - सितंबर 25, 1991.— '' Country Music Star Keith Whitley मुर्दे at 33 ''. - Lexington herald-leader. - may 10, 1989.——hurst, जोकर. - `` whitley 's Last Days ''. - शिकागो ट्रिब्यून. - May 14, 1989.— '' Alcohol मारता Country Singer Keith Whitley ''. - संयुक्त दबायें अंतरराष्ट्रीय. - ( c/o The सैन Francisco Chronicle ). - may 10, 1989. — may 9, 1989 ), known professionally as Keith whitley, was an American देश music सिंगर.
whitley 's brief career in mainstream country म्यूज़िक lasted from 1984 until his death in 1989, but he continues to influence an संपूर्ण पीढी of singers और songwriters.
he charted 19 singles on the Billboard देश चार्ट, सहित five लगातार क्रमांक ones : `` Do n't Close Your Eyes ``, `` When तुम कह nothing at सब ``, `` i 'm no अजनबी to the Rain ``, `` I अचरज Do तुम Think of Me `` and `` it ai n't nothin ' `` ( the पिछला दो posthumously ).
statute of Grand duchy of लिथुआनिया, लिखा in Polish
a statute is a औपचारिक written enactment of a विधान authority that governs a state, नगर, or काउंटी.
Typically, statutes कमांड or prohibit कुछ, or declare नीति.
the word is प्रायः used to फर्क विधि बना by विधान लाशें इससे मामला law, decided by courts, और regulations issued by government agencies.
statutes are sometimes referred to as विधान or `` ब्लैक अक्षर law. ''
as a source of विधि, statutes हैं considered प्राथमिक authority ( as opposed to secondary प्राधिकार ).
Ideally सब statutes must be in सामंजस्य साथ the आधारभूत विधि of the जमीन ( संवैधानिक ).
इस word is प्रयुक्त in contradistinction to the आम law.
Statutes acquire उनके फ़ोर्स इससे the time of उनके ड्योढ़ी, however unless वरना provided.
Statutes are of अनेक kinds ; namely, पब्लिक or निजी.
declaratory or remedial.
Temporary or perpetual.
a temporary statute is एक which is सीमित in its duration at the time of its enactment.
It continues in फ़ोर्स until the time of its limitation रै expired, unless sooner repealed.
a perpetual statute is एक for the फिराकर of which वहीँ is no सीमित समय, हालांकि it may not be expressly declared to be so.
if, however, a statute जिससे did not itself contain कोई limitation is to be governed by another जिससे is temporary only, the पूर्व will also be अस्थाई और निर्भर upon the existence of the latter.
पहले a statute becomes law in कुछ देशों, it जरूर be agreed upon by the highest executive in the सरकारी, और आखिरकार प्रकाशित as भाग of a code.
in many देशों, statutes हैं व्यवस्थित in topical arrangements ( or `` संहिताबद्ध '' ) भीतर publications called कोड, ऐसे as the United राज्य कोड.
In अनेक राष्ट्र statutory विधि is विशिष्ट इससे and अधीनस्थ to constitutional law.
The बाह्य iliac arteries are two प्रमुख arteries जिससे bifurcate बंद the आम iliac धमनियों अग्रवर्ती to the sacroiliac joint of the pelvis.
वे proceed अग्रवर्ती और अवर along the medial border of the psoas major मांसपेशियां.
They exit the pelvic girdle posterior and अवर to the वंक्षण ligament परिचय one third laterally इससे the प्रविष्ट point of the वंक्षण ligament on the pubic tubercle at which point they हैं referred to as the नैया धमनियों.
the external iliac धमनी is usually the artery प्रयुक्त to संलग्न the renal धमनी to the प्राप्तकर्ता of a kidney प्रत्यारोपण.
Steam is a digital वितरण, डिजिटल rights management, एकाधिक और संचार platform developed by वाल्व निगम.
It is used to distribute खेल and related media ऑनलाइन, from छोटी independent developers to larger तन्त्र houses ; in अक्तूबर 2012, Valve expanded the service to शामिल non-gaming software.
भाप provides the user साथ संस्थापना और automatic प्रबन्धन of तन्त्र across अनेक कंप्यूटर, जातियाँ features ऐसे as मित्रों सूचियाँ and समूह, बादल छायांकन, and in-game voice और गपशप functionality.
The तन्त्र provides a freely उपलब्धियाँ application programming इंटरफ़ेस, Steamworks, कि developers can लो लाभ of to integrate अनेक of भाप 's functions within उनके तन्त्र products, including copy protection, networking और matchmaking, in-game achievements और micro-transactions, और support for user-created content through भाप कार्यशाला.
हालांकि initially विकसित लिये use on Microsoft खिड़कियाँ, the क्लाएंट रै विस्तारित to शामिल os x and Linux संस्करण, and क्लाइंट साथ सीमित functionality on the प्लेस्टेशन 3 console and for दोनो iOS and Android मोबाईल devices.
In जोड to होने a सेंट्रल हब लिये गेमिंग तन्त्र, वाल्व रै निर्मित a संस्करण of Steam साथ altered कार्यक्षमता to be used in स्कूलों for educational software, सहित a परिवर्धित संस्करण of पोर्टल 2 लिये शिक्षण विज्ञान और नाजुक सोच lessons.
, there हैं nearly 2000 खेल उपलब्धियाँ through Steam, और 54 million active user accounts.
As of January 2013, भाप रै seen over 6.6 million concurrent players.
Steam has an अनुमानित 50–70 % share of the डिजिटल वितरण मार्केट लिये video खेल.
The Steam logo is a stylised left-side fly-crank and rod from the walschaerts valve gear of a steam locomotive.
Jerry Lewis ( born March 16, 1926 ) is an अमरीकी हास्य, actor, singer, film producer, screenwriter और film director.
He is ज्ञात for उसके slapstick humor in film, television, stage और रेडियो.
He was originally paired up साथ डीन Martin in 1946, forming the famed कॉमेडी टोली of Martin and लुईस.
In addition to the duo 's popular nightclub कार्य, वे स्ट्रक्चर in a कामयाब श्रेणी of कॉमेडी films for सर्वोपरि Pictures.
लुईस is भी ज्ञात for his charity fund-raising telethons and स्थिति as national अध्यक्ष लिये the Muscular dystrophy संघ ( mda ).
Lewis has जीती अनेक awards लिये lifetime achievements from The American Comedy पुरस्कार, Los Angeles Film आलोचकों संघ, and Venice फिल्मी पर्व, और he has दो सितारों on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
in 2005, he received the Governors पुरस्कार of the Academy of टेलीविज़न Arts & Sciences Board of राज्यपालों, जिससे is the highest एमी पुरस्कार प्रस्तुत.
On फ़रवरी 22, 2009, the अकादमी of गति Picture कला और Sciences awarded लुईस the Jean Hersholt humanitarian पुरस्कार.
The Rhine ( ; ; ) is a European नदी that रनों from the Swiss कैण्टन of grisons in the southeastern Swiss Alps through जर्मनी and eventually बहती into the North समुद्र coast in the नीदरलैंड्स और is the twelfth longest river in Europe, at about, with an औसत discharge of अधिक than.
The Rhine और the Danube formed most of the उत्तरी अंतर्देशीय frontier of the रोमन Empire and, since those days, the Rhine has महरूम a vital and navigable जलमार्ग carrying trade and goods गहन inland.
it रै भी served as a रक्षात्मक विशेषता और has महरूम the आधार for क्षेत्रीय and international borders.
the many castles और prehistoric fortifications along the Rhine गवाही to इसके महत्व as a जलमार्ग.
River traffic could be रोका at these स्थितियाँ, प्रायः लिये the purpose of collecting tolls, by the राज्य that controlled that portion of the river.
Sri ( सिंहली )
श्री ( Devanagari : श्री, iast ; śrī ), भी transliterated as Sree or shri or श्री is a word of Sanskrit उत्पत्ति, used in the भारतीय उपमहाद्वीप as विनम्र form of address equivalent to the English `` mr. '' in लिखा and spoken भाषा, or as a शीर्षक of veneration लिये deities ( usually अनूदित as `` Holy '' ).
Design of complex structures like the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्पेस स्टेशन needs in-depth understanding of Structural विश्लेषण.
Civil engineering is a professional engineering discipline that सौदे साथ the डिज़ाइन, निर्माण, and maintenance of the शारीरिक and naturally निर्मित environment, सहित works like roads, पुलों, canals, dams, and इमारतें.
सिविल engineering is the oldest अभियान्त्रिकी discipline after सैन्य अभियान्त्रिकी, और it थी defined to distinguish non-military अभियान्त्रिकी इससे सैन्य अभियान्त्रिकी.
It is traditionally broken into अनेक sub-disciplines including पर्यावरणीय अभियान्त्रिकी, geotechnical अभियान्त्रिकी, geophysics, भूगणित, कंट्रोल engineering, structural engineering, biomechanics, nanotechnology, परिवहन अभियान्त्रिकी, धरती science, वायुमंडलीय sciences, forensic engineering, municipal or शहरी अभियान्त्रिकी, जल संसाधन अभियान्त्रिकी, सामग्री अभियान्त्रिकी, coastal engineering, सर्वेक्षण, and निर्माण engineering.
सिविल अभियान्त्रिकी takes place on all स्तर : in the public sector इससे municipal through to नेशनल governments, और in the निजी sector from individual homeowners through to अंतरराष्ट्रीय companies.
कैथरीन Dunham in Tropical revue
Katherine dunham in Studio
Katherine dunham in Tropical Review Tropical पुनर्विलोकन, मार्टिन Beck Theatre
Katherine Dunham wearing dance costume
कैथरीन dunham in Cumbia
Katherine Dunham ( June 22, 1909 – May 21, 2006 ) was an American dancer, कोरियोग्राफर, author, educator, और सोशल activist.
Dunham had one of the most कामयाब dance careers in American and European थिएटर of the 20th सदी, और directed her अपना नृत्य कम्पनी for many years.
She has महरूम called the `` matriarch and महारानी माँ of ब्लैक नृत्य ''.
During her heyday in the 1940s और 1950s, Dunham थी प्रसिद्ध throughout यूरोपीय और लैटिन अमेरिका और was widely लोकप्रिय in the संयुक्त States, जहाँ the Washington Post पुकारा her `` dancer कैथरीन the ग्रेट ''.
लिये almost तीस years वो कायम the Katherine dunham नृत्य कम्पनी, the only self-supported अमरीकी ब्लैक dance troupe at that time, और over her long करियर she choreographed more than नब्बे व्यक्तिगत dances.
Dunham थी an innovator in African-American modern नृत्य as खूब as a leader in the field of नृत्य anthropology, or ethnochoreology.
Sphagnum is a genus of between 1510 और 3500 प्रजाति of mosses, commonly called peat मॉस due to इसके prevalence in गीला habitats where it contributes to the formation of peat bogs and mires.
sphagnum accumulations can स्टोर जल, चूंकि both जीना and मुर्दे plants can थाम large quantities of water inside their कोशिकाएं ; पौधे may hold इससे 16-26 टाइम्स as much water as their शुष्क वज़न depending on the प्रजाति.
the खाली कोशिकाएं help retain जल in drier शर्तें.
Hence, as sphagnum मॉस grows, it can धीरे स्प्रेड into drier conditions, forming larger peatlands, दोनो raised bogs and blanket bogs.
These peat accumulations तब provide habitat for a wide सरणी of peatland पौधे, including sedges और ericaceous shrubs, as well as orchids and carnivorous plants.
Sphagnum और the peat formed from it do नहीं क्षय readily क्युकी of the phenolic compounds embedded in the मॉस 's कोशिका दीवारें.
In addition, bogs, like सब वेटलैंड्स, develop anaerobic soil शर्तें, which produces धीमा अवायवीय decay बल्कि than aerobic microbial action.
Peat मॉस can also acidify इसके surroundings by लेने up cations, such as calcium और magnesium, और releasing हाइड्रोजन ions.
Under the right conditions, peat can accumulate to a गहराई of अनेक मीटर.
Different प्रजाति of Sphagnum have अलग सहिष्णुता हद लिये बाढ़ and ph, so any one peatland may have a क्रमांक of अलग sphagnum प्रजाति.
Individual peat moss पौधे consist of a प्रमुख स्टेम, साथ tightly arranged clusters of branch fascicles प्रायः consisting of two or three spreading शाखाओं और दो to four hanging शाखाओं.
the top of the संयंत्र, or capitulum, has compact clusters of young शाखाओं.
Along the stem are बिखरे पत्ते of विभिन्न आकार, named stem leaves ; the आकार varies according to species.
the पत्ते consist of दो kinds of cells ; small, ग्रीन, living कोशिकाएं ( chlorophyllose कोशिकाएं ), और विशाल, clear, structural, dead cells ( hyaline cells ).
the latter have the large water-holding क्षमता.
the earliest संस्करण of the संजाल Card, जारी manually बल्कि than through an APTIS यंत्र.
The first APTIS संस्करण of the Network Card.
This was used इससे the start of the aptis era in 1986/1987 जबतक खूब into the 1990s, as स्टॉक्स had to be प्रयुक्त up despite the introduction of the new-look orange-banded संस्करण in 1991.
the introduction of the weekday minimum fare कंडीशन in 2002 resulted in a minor बदलें : the रेड `` R '' shows that this is the `` Revised '' संस्करण of the railcard.
This version is still in उपयोग as of 2007.
The Network railcard is a छूट कार्ड introduced in 1986 by British Rail, upon the creation of their Network southeast क्षेत्रफल around London, England.
The card is intended to encourage अवकाश travel by रेल by offering discounts लिये वयस्कों and accompanying children on a wide range of off-peak किराए.
the range of छूट उपलब्धियाँ, and the price of the card, have varied चूंकि that समय, लकिन the कार्ड रै सदा been मान्य for a साल 's असीमित use.
It can be खरीदा by कोई person aged 16 or over from कोई staffed National Rail स्टेशन or रेल नियुक्त Travel Agent, by completing an application रूप - no photographic identification or other दस्तावेज़ीकरण is needed to ख़रीदे or उपयोग the कार्ड.
it is एक of a क्रमांक of concessionary किराया योजनाएं available on the अंग्रेजों रेल प्रणाली.
the United राष्ट्र ( un ; French : Organisation des Nations unies, onu ) is the world 's largest, foremost, and सबसे prominent international संगठन.
The stated aims of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र शामिल promoting और facilitating सहयोग in अंतरराष्ट्रीय विधि, international security, आर्थिक development, सोशल प्रगति, human अधिकारों, सिविल अधिकारों, सिविल लिबर्टीज, राजनैतिक freedoms, democracy, and the उपलब्धि of स्थायी संसार सलाम.
The un थी founded in 1945 after संसार War II to replace the League of Nations, to stop wars between countries, और to provide a मंच लिये संवाद.
It contains अनेक subsidiary organizations to carry out इसके मिशन.
At its founding, the un had 51 सदस्य राज्य ; as of 2011, वहीँ हैं 193.
From इसके कार्यालयों around the world, the un और इसके specialized agencies decide on substantive and प्रशासनिक मुद्दे in नियमित बैठक आयोजित throughout the year.
The संगठन रै six प्रिंसिपल अंगों : the सामान्य सभा ( the main deliberative सभा ) ; the Security परिषद ( for deciding निश्चित resolutions लिये peace and सुरक्षा ) ; the Economic और सोशल Council ( for assisting in promoting अंतरराष्ट्रीय economic और social cooperation और विकास ) ; the Secretariat ( for providing studies, सूचना, और facilities needed by the UN ) ; the International Court of Justice ( the primary न्यायिक organ ) ; और the संयुक्त Nations Trusteeship परिषद ( जिससे is फिलहाल निष्क्रिय ).
Other prominent un System एजेंसियों include the संसार Health संगठन ( जो ), the World Food Programme ( WFP ) and संयुक्त Nations Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ).
The UN 's most prominent स्थिति is that of the office of Secretary-General which has been held by Ban ki-moon of South Korea since 2007.
the United राष्ट्र Headquarters resides in international territory in नई York City, साथ further प्रमुख कार्यालयों at Geneva, Nairobi, and वियना.
The संगठन is financed इससे assessed और voluntary contributions इससे its member states, and has six आधिकारिक भाषाएं : Arabic, चाइनीज, English, फ्रेंच, Russian, and स्पेनी.
दक्षिण बीच, also nicknamed sobe, is a पड़ोस in the city of मियामी बीच, Florida, United राज्य, located due east of Miami नगर proper between biscayne Bay और the अटलांटिक समंदर.
the area encompasses सब of the अवरोध आइलैंड्स of मियामी बीच south of भारतीय क्रीक.
इस area was the पहला section of Miami Beach to be विकसित, starting in the 1910s, thanks to the development प्रयत्न of Carl G. Fisher, the lummus Brothers, और John S. Collins, the latter whose construction of the कॉलिन्स Bridge provided the पहला vital जमीन link between मेनलैंड Miami and the समुद्रतट.
The क्षेत्रफल has गए through numerous artificial and प्राकृतिक परिवर्तन over the years, including a booming regional अर्थव्यवस्था, increased tourism, और the 1926 hurricane, which destroyed much of the area.
as of 2010, परिचय 39,186 निवासियों सजीव in South Beach.
The United राज्य अध्यक्षीय election of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, आयोजित on मंगलवार, November 8, 1960.
The रिपब्लिकन Party मनोनीत लाज़िम Vice-President रिचर्ड Nixon, जबकि the लोकतांत्रिक Party nominated John F. कैनेडी, Senator from मैसाचुसेट्स.
The incumbent अध्यक्ष, रिपब्लिकन Dwight D. आइज़नहावर, थी not eligible for re-election बाद सेवारत the maximum दो terms allowed by the Twenty-second amendment.
Kennedy was निर्वाचित with a lead of 112,827 votes, or 0.17 % of the popular vote, giving him a victory of 303 to 219 in the चुनावी College, the closest since 1916.
इस थी the पहला election in which सब पचास of the current United राज्य participated.
a क्रमांक of factors explain why the election थी so close.
कैनेडी gained since there थी an आर्थिक मंदी जिससे ठेस the लाज़िम रिपब्लिकन, and he had the लाभ of 17 million अधिक पंजीकृत डेमोक्रेट than republicans.
furthermore, the नई मत that कैनेडी gained among catholics लगभग neutralized the new मत Nixon gained among Protestants.
कैनेडी 's campaigning skills decisively outmatched निक्सन 's.
In the end, निक्सन 's जोर on उसके अनुभव carried little वज़न, और he wasted energy by campaigning in all 50 states instead of concentrating on the swing states.
Kennedy used उसके large, well-funded campaign organization to win the नामांकन, secure endorsements, और, साथ the सहायता of the पिछला of the big-city bosses, to get out the vote in the बिग शहरों.
he relied on कार्यशील mate lyndon B. जॉनसन to hold the दक्षिण and प्रयुक्त television effectively.
इस चुनाव is notable as being the first time in U.S. history that दो sitting U.S. Senators ( Kennedy and Johnson ) यहूद elected as president और vice-president, a phenomenon that has महरूम दोहराया once, by Barack Obama and जो बिडेन in 2008 ( in both cases, the president थी the younger, अधिक junior senator ).
A पोस्टर लिये a c. 1884 American production of Macbeth, अभिनीत थामस W. keene.
Depicted, काउंटर clockwise from top-left, are : Macbeth और banquo meet the witches ; just बाद the हत्या of Duncan ; Banquo 's भुत ; मैकबेथ duels macduff ; और Macbeth.
Macbeth is a खेल written by William Shakespeare.
it is considered one of his darkest और most शक्तिशाली tragedies.
नियत in स्कॉटलैंड, the खेल dramatizes the corroding मनोवैज्ञानिक और राजनैतिक प्रभाव उत्पादित when its protagonist, the स्कॉटिश रब मैकबेथ, chooses दुष्ट as the way to fulfill उसके ambition for शक्ति.
He commits regicide to become किंग and तब furthers his moral descent with a reign of murderous terror to रहो in power, eventually plunging the country into सिविल युद्ध.
In the end, he loses सबकुछ कि gives meaning और purpose to his life before losing his जीवन itself.
The play is believed to have been लिखा between 1603 और 1607, और is most commonly dated 1606.
The earliest account of a performance of what was probably शेक्सपियर 's play is April 1611, जब साइमन forman recorded देखकर such a play at the Globe Theatre.
it was पहला प्रकाशित in the Folio of 1623, संभवतः इससे a prompt किताब.
It थी most likely लिखा during the reign of जेम्स I, जो had महरूम जेम्स vi of स्कॉटलैंड before he succeeded to the English throne in 1603.
जेम्स थी a संरक्षक of shakespeare’s एक्टिंग company, and of सब the plays शेक्सपियर लिखा दौरान James’s शासनकाल, Macbeth most clearly reflects the playwright’s relationship साथ the sovereign.
Macbeth is Shakespeare’s shortest tragedy, and tells the story of a वीर Scottish सामान्य नामित मैकबेथ who receives a prophecy इससे a trio of witches कि एक दिन he होगा become King of Scotland.
Consumed by महत्वाकांक्षा और spurred to action by his बीवी, Macbeth हत्याएं King डंकन और takes the throne for खुद.
उसके शासनकाल is racked with guilt and paranoia, and he soon becomes a tyrannical ruler as he is मजबूर to कमिट अधिक और more हत्याएं to protect खुद इससे enmity और suspicion.
the bloodbath swiftly takes मैकबेथ और Lady मैकबेथ into realms of arrogance, दीवानगी, और मौत.
Shakespeare 's सोर्स for the tragedy is the खाता of King मैकबेथ of स्कॉटलैंड, macduff, and Duncan in holinshed 's क्रॉनिकल्स ( 1587 ), a history of England, स्कॉटलैंड और आयरलैंड परिचित to Shakespeare और उसके contemporaries, although the कार्यक्रम in the खेल differ extensively इससे the history of the real Macbeth.
In the backstage world of थिएटर, some मानना that the खेल is शापित, और will नहीं mention its title aloud, referring to it instead as `` the स्कॉटिश खेल ``.
over the कोर्स of अनेक सदियां, the खेल has attracted some of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध actors to the भूमिकाएँ of मैकबेथ और Lady Macbeth.
It has been adapted to फिल्मी, television, ओपेरा, novels, कॉमिक किताबे, and अन्य media.
the मिल्टन Hershey School is a निजी परोपकारी ( pre-K through 12 ) बोर्डिंग school in hershey, पेन्सिलवेनिया.
Originally नामित the Hershey Industrial स्कूल, the institution was संस्थापित and वित्तपोषित by chocolate उद्योगपति Milton snavely hershey and his wife, कैथरीन Sweeney hershey.
the स्कूल थी originally स्थापित for impoverished, healthy, Caucasian, male orphans, while today it serves विद्यार्थी of विभिन्न backgrounds.
the मिल्टन Hershey स्कूल विश्वास, जिससे funds the स्कूल, owns controlling interest in the hershey Company और owns the hershey Entertainment और Resorts Company ( HERCO ) which oversees many of the क्षेत्रफल hotels along साथ a theme park called Hersheypark.
With over six billion डॉलर in assets, the Milton Hershey स्कूल is one of the wealthiest स्कूलों in the संसार.
the स्कूल is overseen by a Board of Managers.
The school currently serves 1,818 students, और plans to grow to 2,100 students by 2013.
a member of CORE : गठबन्धन लिये Residential Education, it is the largest residential education कार्यक्रम in the us.
Epub may refer to:
EPUB, a free और खोलें e-book मानक
Electronic article, articles in scholarly journals or मैगज़ीन कि can be पहुँचा via electronic हस्तांतरण
the Controlled substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the कॉंग्रेस of the United राज्य as शीर्षक ii of the व्यापक Drug Abuse रोकथाम और Control अधिनियम of 1970.
the सीएसए is the federal u.S. drug नीति under जिससे the manufacture, importation, कब्ज़ा, उपयोग and distribution of certain substances is regulated.
the Act भी परोसा as the national implementing legislation लिये the सिंगल सम्मेलन on Narcotic दवाएँ.
the legislation created five schedules ( classifications ), with varying योग्यता for a पदार्थ to be included in प्रत्येक.
Two federal एजेंसियों, the Drug प्रवर्तन प्रशासन और the Food and ड्रग प्रशासन, determine which substances are added to or removed इससे the विभिन्न schedules, हालांकि the statute passed by कॉंग्रेस created the initial लिस्टिंग, और Congress has sometimes अनुसूचित other substances through legislation such as the hillory J. Farias and सामन्था reid date-rape Prevention अधिनियम of 2000, which लगाई gamma hydroxybutyrate in अनुसूची i. वर्गीकरण निर्णय are जरूरी to be बना on मापदण्ड सहित potential लिये abuse ( an अपरिभाषित term ), currently accepted medical उपयोग in उपचार in the संयुक्त States, और अंतरराष्ट्रीय treaties.
Second-language अधिग्रहण or second-language learning is the प्रक्रम by which लोगों सीख a दूसरी language.
second-language acquisition ( प्रायः abbreviated to sla ) also refers to the वैज्ञानिक अनुशासन devoted to अध्ययन that प्रक्रम.
Second language refers to कोई language सीखे in जोड to a व्यक्ति 's पहला language ; although the concept is नामित second-language acquisition, it can also incorporate the learning of third, चौथी, or subsequent भाषाएं.
Second-language अधिग्रहण refers to what learners do ; it करता not refer to practices in भाषा teaching.
The academic अनुशासन of second-language acquisition is a subdiscipline of लागू linguistics.
it is broad-based और अपेक्षाकृत नई.
as खूब as the विभिन्न शाखाओं of भाषाविज्ञान, second-language acquisition is भी closely related to psychology, cognitive psychology, and education.
To पृथक the academic अनुशासन इससे the learning प्रक्रम itself, the शर्तें second-language अधिग्रहण शोध, second-language अध्ययन, और second-language acquisition अध्ययन हैं also used.
SLA research began as an interdisciplinary फ़ील्ड, and क्युकी of this it is मुश्किल to पहचानो a precise starting तिथि.
however, it करता appear to have developed a ग्रेट सौदे since the mid-1960s.
the पद अधिग्रहण was originally used to emphasize the अवचेतन प्रकृति of the learning प्रक्रम, लकिन in हाल सालो learning और acquisition have become largely synonymous.
second-language अधिग्रहण can incorporate विरासत language सीखना, but it does not प्रायः चरितार्थ bilingualism.
Most SLA researchers see bilingualism as being the end result of learning a भाषा, नहीं the process itself, and see the पद as referring to native-like fluency.
लेखक in fields such as education and psychology, however, प्रायः उपयोग bilingualism loosely to refer to all forms of बहुभाषिकता.
second-language acquisition is भी not to be contrasted with the अधिग्रहण of a विदेशी language ; बल्कि, the learning of दूसरी भाषाएं and the learning of foreign भाषाएं involve the वही fundamental processes in अलग situations..
वहीँ has महरूम much debate परिचय exactly कैसा language is सीखे, और many मुद्दे are still अनसुलझे.
There are many theories of second-language acquisition, लकिन none हैं accepted as a complete explanation by सब sla शोधकर्ताओं.
Due to the interdisciplinary प्रकृति of the फ़ील्ड of second-language acquisition, इस is नहीं अपेक्षित to happen in the foreseeable future.
फोर्ब्स सूची of billionaires is an सालाना रैंकिंग of the संसार 's wealthiest लोगों, compiled and published by Forbes, an अमरीकी नेशनल business पत्रिका.
The कुल net लायक of each व्यक्तिगत on the सूची is estimated, in United राज्य डॉलर, based on उनके assets and हिसाब for कर्ज़.
The list तभी represents each व्यक्ति 's valuation on a single दिन, due to daily fluctuations among exchange rates और stock valuations.
the United राज्य Secret सेवा is a u.S. संघीय विधि enforcement agency that is part of the संयुक्त States विभाग of Homeland सुरक्षा.
the sworn members are divided among the खास Agents and the uniformed Division.
Until March 1, 2003, the सेवा थी भाग of the United राज्य विभाग of the राजकोष.
The u.S. Secret Service रै दो पृथक areas of responsibility:
Financial अपराधों, covering missions ऐसे as रोकथाम और छानबीन of counterfeiting of u.S. currency और u.S. treasury securities, and छानबीन of प्रमुख धोखाधड़ी.
सुरक्षा, which entails ensuring the safety of वर्तमान और former नेशनल नेताओ and their families, such as the President, past राष्ट्रपतियों, vice राष्ट्रपतियों, presidential candidates, visiting heads of state, और foreign embassies ( प्रति an अनुबंध with the U.S. State विभाग 's ब्यूरो of राजनयिक Security ( DS ) Office of विदेशी Missions ( OFM ), etc. )
the Secret Service 's आरंभिक responsibility was to investigate counterfeiting of U.S. करेंसी, which थी अनियंत्रित following the u.S. सिविल War.
The एजेंसी तब विकसित into the United राज्य ' पहला घरेलू प्रज्ञा और counterintelligence एजेंसी.
Many of the agency 's मिशन यहूद बाद लिया over by subsequent एजेंसियों such as the Federal ब्यूरो of Investigation ( एफबीआई ), Bureau of Alcohol, तम्बाकू, Firearms and Explosives ( ATF ), Immigration and Customs Enforcement ( बर्फ ), and आतंरिक Revenue Service ( IRS ).
`` me और Bobby mcgee '' is a song लिखा by क्रिस kristofferson और Fred फोस्टर, originally performed by रोजर Miller.
Others performed the सोंग later, including kristofferson himself, और janis joplin who topped the U.S. singles chart साथ the सोंग in 1971 बाद her death, making the सोंग the second posthumous number-one सिंगल in U.S. chart इतिहास after `` ( sittin ' On ) The Dock of the खाड़ी `` by ओटिस redding.
फ्रैंकलिन Delano रूज़वेल्ट ( or ; January 30, 1882 – April 12, 1945 ), भी ज्ञात by his initials, FDR, थी the 32nd President of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1933–1945 ) and a सेंट्रल figure in संसार events दौरान the mid-20th सदी, leading the संयुक्त States during a समय of विश्वव्यापी आर्थिक depression and कुल युद्ध.
A प्रबल leader of the लोकतांत्रिक Party और the तभी American president elected to अधिक than two शर्तें, he निर्मित a New सौदे गठबन्धन that realigned अमरीकी politics बाद 1932, as his घरेलू policies defined अमरीकी liberalism लिये the middle तीसरा of the 20th सदी.
साथ the bouncy popular सोंग `` प्रसन्न दिनों हैं Here Again `` as उसके campaign थीम, fdr पराजित incumbent रिपब्लिकन हर्बर्ट Hoover in नवम्बर 1932, at the depth of the ग्रेट अवसाद.
सक्रिय by his personal victory over polio, fdr 's unfailing आशावाद and activism contributed to a renewal of the national स्पिरिट.
He worked closely with अंग्रेजों Prime मंत्री विंस्टन चर्चिल and सोवियत सामान्य सचिव जोसेफ स्टालिन in अग्रणी the Allies विरूद्ध जर्मनी और जापानी in संसार युद्ध II, and restoring prosperity to the स्वदेश 's economy.
in उसके first hundred दिनों in दफ्तर, which began March 4, 1933, रूज़वेल्ट पथप्रदर्शन major legislation and जारी a profusion of कार्यपालिका आदेश that instituted the नई Deal —a variety of programs designed to produce relief ( government कार्य लिये the बेरोजगार ), recovery ( आर्थिक growth ), and reform ( through विनियमन of वॉल Street, बैंको and परिवहन ).
the अर्थव्यवस्था improved rapidly इससे 1933 to 1937, but तब relapsed into a deep recession.
the bipartisan Conservative गठबन्धन कि formed in 1937 prevented his पैकिंग the Supreme Court or गुजर कोई considerable विधान ; it abolished अनेक of the राहत programs जब unemployment diminished during World War II.
Most of the regulations on business यहूद ended परिचय 1975–85, मगर लिये the regulation of Wall Street by the Securities और Exchange आयोग, जिससे स्टिल exists.
साथ with several smaller programs, major surviving programs शामिल the संघीय Deposit Insurance Corporation, जिससे थी created in 1933, and सोशल Security, जिससे Congress passed in 1935.
As संसार War ii loomed after 1938, साथ the जापानी invasion of China and the aggression of Nazi Germany, FDR gave दमदार राजनयिक and वित्तीय support to चीन और Great Britain, while remaining officially neutral.
उसके लक्ष्य was to मेक America the `` आर्सेनल of लोकतंत्र `` which होता supply munitions to the allies.
in कूच 1941, Roosevelt, साथ Congressional स्वीकृति, provided lend-lease aid to the देशों fighting विरूद्ध नाजी Germany साथ ब्रिटेन.
With बहुत दमदार नेशनल support, he made war on Japan और जर्मनी बाद the जापानी attack on Pearl हार्बर on December 7, 1941, calling it a `` तिथि जिससे will live in infamy ``.
He supervised the mobilization of the u.S. अर्थव्यवस्था to support the Allied युद्ध effort.
as an active सैन्य leader, रूज़वेल्ट implemented an overall युद्ध रणनीति on two fronts कि ended in the defeat of the Axis Powers and the विकास of the संसार 's first अणु bomb.
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese American नागरिकों.
Unemployment dropped to 2 %, राहत programs largely ended, and the industrial economy grew rapidly to new heights as लाखो of people स्थानांतरित to नई jobs in युद्ध centers, और 16 million मेन और 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for सैन्य सेवा.
रूज़वेल्ट वर्चस्व the American political scene not only दौरान the बारह years of his प्रेसिडेंसी, लकिन भी लिये decades afterward.
He orchestrated the realignment of voters कि created the Fifth पार्टी प्रणाली.
fdr 's नई सौदे गठबन्धन united मजदूर संघ, big नगर machines, white ethnics, African अमेरिकी and rural white southerners.
he also influenced the बाद सृष्टि of the संयुक्त Nations and Bretton Woods.
रूज़वेल्ट is consistently रेटेड by विद्वानों as एक of the top तीन U.S. राष्ट्रपतियों, along साथ Abraham lincoln and George वॉशिंगटन.
a liberal डेमोक्रेट, रूज़वेल्ट defined उसके वैचारिक position as `` a छोटी बाएँ of बीच. ''
मारा salvatrucha ( commonly abbreviated as MS, मारा, and ms-13 ) is a transnational दण्ड gang that originated in लॉस एंजिल्स and रै spread to अन्य parts of the संयुक्त States, कनाडा, मैक्सिको, और सेंट्रल America.
The majority of the गिरोह is ethnically रचित of Central अमेरिकी and active in शहरी और suburban क्षेत्रों.
in the U.S., the MS-13 रै an विशेषकर भारी presence in लॉस Angeles काउंटी और the San फ्रांसिस्को Bay Area in Northern कैलिफ़ोर्निया ; the वॉशिंगटन, d.C. महानगर क्षेत्रों of Fairfax काउंटी, वर्जिनिया, मोंटगोमरी काउंटी, मेरीलैंड, और Prince जार्ज 's काउंटी, मेरीलैंड ; long Island, नई यॉर्क ; the Boston, Massachusetts क्षेत्रफल ; Charlotte, North कैरोलिना ; और Houston, Texas.
There is भी a उपस्थिति of MS-13 in टोरंटो, Ontario, कनाडा.
सदस्यों of ms distinguish themselves by tattoos covering the देह and भी often the फेस, as well as the उपयोग of their own चिह्न language.
They are बदनाम लिये उनके उपयोग of हिंसा and a subcultural moral कोड that predominantly consists of merciless revenge और बेदर्द retributions.
This cruelty of the distinguished सदस्यों of the `` maras '' or `` Mareros '' अर्जित उन्हें a path to be recruited by the Sinaloa Cartel battling विरूद्ध Los zetas in an जारी ड्रग war दक्षिण of the संयुक्त States किनारा.
उनके wide-ranging activities have drawn the ध्यान of the एफबीआई and Immigration and Customs प्रवर्तन, जो have initiated wide-scale छापे against ज्ञात और suspected गिरोह members – netting सैंकड़ों of रखवाले across the देश.
हड्डियों is an American crime comedy-drama television series that premiered on the फॉक्स संजाल in the संयुक्त States on सितंबर 13, 2005.
the दिखाएँ is based on forensic मानवशास्त्र और forensic पुरातत्व, साथ प्रत्येक episode focusing on an एफबीआई case संचिका concerning the रहस्य पीछे इंसान remains brought by FBI Special Agent Seeley बूथ ( David boreanaz ) to the forensic anthropologist dr. temperance `` Bones '' Brennan ( Emily deschanel ).
The बाकी of the प्रमुख cast शामिल Michaela conlin, T. J. thyne, eric millegan, Tamara टेलर, जोनाथन एडम्स, और जॉन फ्रांसिस Daley.
Created by हार्ट Hanson, the series is very loosely based on the life और writings of novelist and forensic anthropologist Kathy reichs, who also produces the दिखाएँ.
Its शीर्षक अक्षर, temperance ब्रेनन, is named बाद the protagonist of reichs ' अपराधों novel श्रेणी.
Conversely, Dr. ब्रेनन writes कामयाब रहस्य novels आधारित around a fictional ( in the Bones universe ) forensic anthropologist नामित Kathy Reichs.
Bones is a संयुक्त उत्पादन by Josephson Entertainment, दूर Field प्रोडक्शन्स and 20th सदी Fox टेलीविज़न.
the श्रेणी रै समाप्त airing इसके आठवीं ऋतु और रै been renewed for a नवीं ऋतु.
सुपर कटोरी XXV was an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल खेल between the अमरीकी Football सम्मेलन ( AFC ) चैंपियन Buffalo बिल्स और the National Football Conference ( nfc ) champion नई यॉर्क दिग्गज to decide the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League ( एनएफएल ) चैंपियन लिये the 1990 season.
the दिग्गज defeated the बिल्स by the स्कोर of 20–19, winning उनके दूसरी ever सुपर कटोरी.
It is the only Super Bowl decided by one पाइंट.
The game थी held at Tampa Stadium in tampa, Florida, on January 27, 1991, दौरान the ऊँचाई of the गल्फ War.
it थी यूँ निभाई अंतर्गत much patriotic fervor.
The कार्यवाही included a rousing rendition of `` The star-spangled ध्वज `` by Whitney Houston during the pregame ceremonies.
the बिल्स और their विस्फोटक no-huddle ठोकर यहूद बनाना their first सुपर कटोरी appearance after finishing the नियमित ऋतु with a 13-3 record, और leading the league in total अंक scored साथ 428.
in advancing to उनके दूसरी Super Bowl, the दिग्गज भी posted a 13-3 नियमित ऋतु रिकार्ड, but with a ball-control offense और a रक्षा that allowed a league कम 211 अंक.
The खेल is बेहतरीन remembered लिये Bills placekicker स्कॉट नॉर्वुड 's last-second field लक्ष्य attempt जिससे went wide सही of the uprights, leading to a Giants विजय, and starting a four-game खोने streak in the Super कटोरी लिये the Bills.
The Giants set a सुपर Bowl record पकड़कर कब्ज़ा of the ball for 40 मिनट्स and 33 seconds.
New York भी overcame a 12-3 second-quarter deficit, और बना a 75-yard touchdown ड्राइव that consumed a सुपर कटोरी record 9:29 off the क्लॉक.
दिग्गज running back ottis Anderson, who carried the बॉल 21 times for 102 yards और एक touchdown, थी नामित Super कटोरी mvp.
he थी the पहला awardee to receive the newly नामित `` Pete rozelle Trophy '' ( नामित for the पूर्व कमिश्नर ).
एंडरसन भी अंकित one रिसेप्शन for सात yards.
मैल्कम x ( ; May 19, 1925february 21, 1965 ), born मैल्कम Little and also known as El-Hajj Malik el-shabazz ( ), थी an african-american मुस्लिम minister और human rights activist.
to उसके admirers, he थी a courageous एडवोकेट लिये the अधिकारों of अश्वेतों, a man who indicted white अमेरिका in the harshest terms लिये its crimes विरूद्ध black अमेरिकी.
Detractors accused him of preaching racism, ब्लैक supremacy, and हिंसा.
he रै been called एक of the महानतम and सबसे influential African Americans in history.
Malcolm x 's father died—killed by श्वेत supremacists, it थी rumored—when he was young, और at least one of his uncles थी lynched.
जब he was 13, उसके माँ थी लगाई in a दिमागी hospital, और he was लगाई in a श्रेणी of foster घरों.
in 1946, at आयु 20, he गई to prison लिये तोड़कर and प्रवेश.
In थाना, Malcolm x became a सदस्य of the स्वदेश of Islam ; after उसके पैरोल in 1952, he जल्दी रोज़ to become one of इसके leaders.
लिये a दर्जन years, मैल्कम x थी the पब्लिक फेस of the विवादास्पद समूह, लकिन disillusionment with स्वदेश of islam head Elijah Muhammad led him to leave the स्वदेश in कूच 1964.
बाद a period of travel in अफ़्रीकी and the मध्य ईस्ट, he returned to the संयुक्त राज्य, जहाँ he संस्थापित Muslim मस्जिदे, inc. और the संगठन of Afro-American एकता.
In February 1965, less than a year बाद leaving the स्वदेश of islam, he थी assassinated by three members of the समूह.
Malcolm x 's expressed beliefs बदला substantially over time.
As a प्रवक्ता लिये the स्वदेश of islam he सिखाया ब्लैक सर्वोच्चता और advocated separation of black और श्वेत अमेरिकी —in contrast to the civil rights गति 's जोर on integration.
बाद तोड़कर साथ the Nation of islam in 1964—saying of उसके संघ with it, `` I किया अनेक बाते as a [ Black ] मुस्लिम कि I 'm sorry for now.
I was a zombie तब... pointed in a certain दिशा और बताई to march '' —and बनने a सुन्नी मुस्लिम, he disavowed जातिवाद and expressed willingness to कार्य साथ सिविल अधिकारों leaders, he continued to emphasize Pan-Africanism, ब्लैक self-determination, and self-defense.
the third ऋतु of 90210, an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न श्रेणी, premiered on सोमवार सितंबर 13, 2010.
The cw officially नवीनीकृत the दिखाएँ for a third season on February 16, 2010.
With the reveal of the संजाल पतन 2010 अनुसूची, वे घोषित उनके decision to मूव 90210 to सोमवार nights at 8:00 pm, as a lead-in to गपशप Girl.
It premiered on सितंबर 13, 2010 and was मिले with generally धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ इससे critics.
the season चयन up at the समाप्त of summer and focuses on the students senior year of ऊँची स्कूल.
it follows adrianna 's rise to fame, a new संबंध between Silver and Navid and a उलझन टेडी जो decides to reveal to उसके family and मित्रों he is gay.
It also सौदे साथ the aftermath of नाओमी क्लार्क 's assault.
नियमित डाल सदस्यों लिये the ऋतु included Shenae Grimes, Tristan Wilds, annalynne mccord, Ryan eggold, Jessica stroup, Michael steger, Jessica lowndes, Matt lanter, गिलियन zinser, ट्रेवर Donovan और लोरी Loughlin.
रेबेका sinclair continued उसके भूमिका as executive producer लिये the ऋतु.
The season premiered to 1.96 million viewers and a 0.9 rating in the adults 18–49 demographic.
Christmas-themed episode `` Holiday दीवानगी '', hit season highs in सब कुंजी demos with 2.1 in the CW 's निशाना डेमो of women 18–34, a 1.4 in adults 18–34 and a 1.1 in adults 18–49.
It थी भी the सबसे watched एपीसोड in over a year with 2.2 million दर्शक tuning in.
The season finale aired on may 16, 2011.
the season averaged 1.75 लाख live दर्शक and a 0.9 adults 18–49 rating.
it थी released on DVD in the संयुक्त राज्य on अगस्त 30, 2011.
Elizabeth ii ( Elizabeth एलेक्जेंड्रा Mary ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the constitutional monarch of 16 sovereign राज्य, known as the Commonwealth realms, and their territories और dependencies, and head of the 54-member राष्ट्रमंडल of Nations.
वो is Supreme Governor of the Church of England and, in some of उसके realms, carries the शीर्षक of Defender of the Faith as भाग of उसके full शीर्षक.
on उसके accession on 6 फ़रवरी 1952, एलिज़ाबेथ became सिर of the राष्ट्रमंडल और queen regnant of सात independent Commonwealth देशों : the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, नई Zealand, South अफ़्रीकी, Pakistan और Ceylon.
From 1956 to 1992, the क्रमांक of उसके realms varied as territories gained स्वतंत्रता and some realms became republics.
at उपस्थित, in addition to the first four aforementioned देशों, Elizabeth is Queen of Jamaica, Barbados, the बहामा, Grenada, Papua नई गिनी, the सुलेमान Islands, Tuvalu, Saint Lucia, Saint विंसेंट और the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua और Barbuda और Saint किट्स और नेविस.
Her शासनकाल of years is currently the दूसरी longest for a British monarch ; तभी Queen Victoria has reigned longer at over 63 सालो.
एलिज़ाबेथ थी born in लंदन और educated privately at home.
उसके father acceded to the सिंहासन as जार्ज vi in 1936 on the abdication of उसके brother एडवर्ड viii, from which समय she was the वारिस presumptive.
वो began to undertake public कर्तव्य दौरान the Second संसार युद्ध, in which she served in the auxiliary territorial Service.
In 1947, वो शादीशुदा Prince Philip, ड्यूक of Edinburgh, with whom वो has चार children : Charles, ऐनी, एंड्रयू, और एडवर्ड.
उसके राजतिलक service took प्लेस in 1953 और was the पहला to be televised.
The महारानी 's many historic विज़िट और meetings include a state विज़िट to the गणतंत्र of आयरलैंड and reciprocal visits to और इससे the Pope.
The महारानी has seen major संवैधानिक changes in her realms, such as devolution in the United किंगडम and the patriation of the कनाडाई constitution.
Times of personal significance have included the births और विवाह of उसके children, the births of उसके grandchildren, the प्रतिष्ठापन of the Prince of वेल्स, and the celebration of milestones ऐसे as उसके Silver, सुनहरी, and डायमंड Jubilees in 1977, 2002, and 2012, क्रमशः.
Major कार्यक्रम in the महारानी 's reign have included the Troubles in Northern आयरलैंड, the falklands War, wars साथ इराकी और the War in Afghanistan.
There have महरूम times of निजी sorrow for उसके जिससे शामिल the death of her father at 56, the assassination of प्रिंस फिलिप 's ताऊ, रब माउंटबेटन, the breakdown of उसके children 's विवाह in 1992 ( a year deemed her annus horribilis ), the मौत in 1997 of उसके पूर्व daughter-in-law, Diana, Princess of Wales, और the deaths of her mother and sister in 2002.
The Queen has occasionally faced severe press criticism of the royal family और रिपब्लिकन sentiments, but support for the साम्राज्य and उसके निजी लोकप्रियता remain ऊँची.
the 2010 संयुक्त States सीनेट चुनाव in Florida took place on नवम्बर 2, 2010 साथ with अन्य elections to the संयुक्त States सीनेट in अन्य राज्य as well as all चुनावों to the संयुक्त States House of Representatives and विभिन्न state and local elections.
रिपब्लिकन मार्को Rubio, former Speaker of the फ्लोरिडा House of प्रतिनिधि, पराजित स्वतंत्र Charlie crist और डेमोक्रेट kendrick नम्र in a three-way रेस.
एक term सीनेटर mel Martinez थी निर्वाचित in a बहुत बंद race विरूद्ध Democrat बेट्टी अरंडी in 2004 साथ 49 % of the vote.
Martinez घोषित on दिसम्बर 2, 2008 कि he होता नहीं तलाश re-election to the Senate, and would इस्तीफा prior to the समाप्त of उसके term.
in August 2009, Governor Charlie Crist announced that he would appoint उसके former मुख्य of स्टाफ, George lemieux, a Republican, to the सीनेट सीट being vacated by मार्टिनेज.
राज्यपाल crist publicly announced he was कार्यशील for the सीट in mid-2009.
at the time he received अनेक Republican समर्थन, ऐसे as the नेशनल Republican Senatorial Committee, मार्टिनेज, और the 2008 Republican presidential nominee John मैक्केन.
उसके support of the अमरीकी Recovery and reinvestment Act of 2009 ठेस his लोकप्रियता among conservatives, और candidate मार्को Rubio surged.
in अप्रैल 2010 crist announced he would बूँद आउट of the Republican प्राथमिक and चलाएं as an independent.
the National रिपब्लिकन senatorial Committee withdrew its endorsement of crist and demanded a refund of इसके campaign funds that it provided for the crist campaign.
Congressman Kendrick नम्र थी the पहला डेमोक्रेट to घोषित his intention to चलाएं.
Alexander Snitker थी the पहला member of the Libertarian पार्टी on the बैलट लिये senator in Florida 's इतिहास.
उपग्रह view of दोहा
Doha (, ' or ', वस्तुतः : `` the big tree '' ) is the capital city of the state of क़तर.
स्तिथ on the coast of the पारसी Gulf,
it था a population of 998,651 in 2008, and is also one of the municipalities of क़तर.
दोहा is क़तर 's largest city, with over 60 % of the nation 's जनसांख्यिकी residing in दोहा or इसके surrounding suburbs, and is also the आर्थिक केन्द्र of the देश.
दोहा also serves as the seat of government of क़तर, जिससे is शासित by Sheikh हमद bin खलीफा Al थानी.
दोहा is घर to the Education City, an क्षेत्रफल devoted to research and education.
दोहा was the site of the first ministerial-level meeting of the Doha विकास गोलाकार of World Trade Organization negotiations.
The city of Doha आयोजित the 2006 एशियाई Games, which was the largest एशियाई Games कभी आयोजित.
Doha also hosted the 2011 पण Arab खेल and most of the games at the 2011 AFC एशियाई Cup.
Doha hosted the unfccc Climate negotiations ( COP 18 ) December 2012 और will मेजबान a विशाल क्रमांक of the venues for the 2022 FIFA संसार कप.
The संसार पेट्रोलियम Council आयोजित the 20th संसार Petroleum सम्मेलन in दोहा in December 2011.
paranasal sinuses हैं a group of four युग्म air-filled spaces कि surround the nasal cavity ( maxillary sinuses ), above the eyes ( frontal साइनस ), between the आँखें ( ethmoid sinuses ), and पीछे the ethmoids ( sphenoid sinuses ).
the sinuses हैं named for the facial हड्डियों in जिससे they हैं located.
Lean निर्माण, झुकना एंटरप्राइज़, or lean उत्पादन, often बस, `` झुकना, '' is a उत्पादन practice that considers the expenditure of संसाधन for any लक्ष्य other than the सृष्टि of value for the end ग्राहक to be wasteful, और यूँ a निशाना लिये विलोपन.
working इससे the perspective of the customer who consumes a product or सेवा, `` value '' is पारिभाषित as कोई कार्रवाई or प्रक्रम that a ग्राहक would be willing to अदा लिये.
essentially, झुकना is centered on preserving मान साथ less work.
झुकना manufacturing is a प्रबन्धन दर्शनशास्त्र निकला ज़्यादातर from the Toyota उत्पादन System ( tps ) ( hence the पद Toyotism is also prevalent ) and identified as `` झुकना '' तभी in the 1990s.
TPS is प्रसिद्ध for its फ़ोकस on कटौती of the original Toyota सात wastes to improve overall ग्राहक value, लकिन there हैं varying perspectives on कैसा this is best हासिल.
The steady growth of Toyota, from a small कम्पनी to the संसार 's largest automaker, रै focused ध्यान on how it रै हासिल this success.
iCarly लोगो
icarly is an American sitcom that airs on Nickelodeon, जिससे premiered on सितंबर 8, 2007.
निकलोडियन प्रचारित many एपीसोड so far ऐसे as `` iDo '', `` iHire an Idiot '', `` iPity the Nevel '', `` iDate Sam & फ्रेडी '', etc. as specials, despite their being नियमित episodes.
Every एपीसोड title begins साथ a निम्नतर case i which represents the internet, as in `` iCarly ''.
the दिखाएँ was nominated for an Emmy पुरस्कार for बकाया children 's कार्यक्रम in 2009.
the series अभिनीत मिरांडा cosgrove as कार्ली शे, a 13-year-old who becomes an अंतरजाल star.
The series ended on नवम्बर 23, 2012 with the one-hour खास एपीसोड `` iGoodbye ''.
a कुल of 7 सीज़न और 109 episodes यहूद broadcast.
The largest दर्शक of the series थी 11.2 million viewers, with the special episode `` isaved अपना Life '' premiered in January 2010.
जब कार्ली ( मिरांडा Cosgrove ) और her sassy बेहतरीन dost Sam ( jennette mccurdy ) act funny at a school talent show audition, tech-savvy फ्रेडी ( Nathan Kress ) टेपों it and पोस्ट it ऑनलाइन बगैर telling उन्हें.
After देखकर the लड़कियों ' दमदार chemistry and banter, the ऑनलाइन दर्शक clamors for more and the icarly webcast is born.
While grappling with typical issues of किशोरावस्था, Carly, sam, और Freddie ढूँढें out कि they have भी become online celebrities as their दिखाएँ – which सुविधाएँ हुनर प्रतियोगिताओं, recipes, problem-solving, और random dancing – garners अंतरराष्ट्रीय accolades.
Carly जीवनदान in Seattle, वॉशिंगटन with her 26-year-old brother and संरक्षक Spencer ( जेरी trainor ) and produces the दिखाएँ in a makeshift third-floor studio loft in उनके apartment.
उनके माँ has never been seen or mentioned, but their पिता, स्टीवन Shay ( दाउद Chisum ), is a u.S. एयर फ़ोर्स officer temporarily stationed on a submarine, and is प्रायः mentioned लकिन is तभी seen in व्यक्ति during the श्रेणी finale episode, `` iGoodbye ''.
westlife यहूद an Irish लड़के बैंड जिससे formed in 1998 and disbanded in 2012.
Originally signed by Simon cowell और managed by Louis वाल्श, the group 's final line-up consisted of Nicky Byrne, Kian Egan, Mark Feehily and शेन filan.
ब्रायन McFadden थी a member from 1998 जबतक उसके departure in 2004.
Westlife sold over 50 million रिकॉर्ड worldwide, a कुल कि included studio albums, singles, video रिलीज, and संकलन एल्बम.
The group accumulated 14 number-one singles in the United Kingdom ( the third-highest in UK history ), tying साथ Cliff Richard और रैंकिंग just behind the बीटल्स और Elvis प्रेस्ली.
वे achieved a total of 26 top टेन singles over उनके 14-year career.
by 2010, Westlife थी सूचीबद्ध in the गिनीज संसार रिकॉर्ड, as the UK 's top-selling album समूह of the 21st century.
वे also won The Record of the Year ( the तभी music award आधारित on public votes in the UK ) a record-breaking four times and in 2012, the Official चार्ट Company listed Westlife 34th amongst the biggest-selling singles कलाकारों in British music history.
Despite उनके यूरोपीय and एशियाई success, westlife never managed to ब्रेक into the U.S. market, achieving only एक hit single in 2000 : `` कसम It again ``.
in अक्तूबर 2011, Westlife announced उनके intention to split in 2012, following उनके महानतम हिट्स Tour और the रिलीज of उनके महानतम हिट्स एल्बम.
the boyband 's final कॉन्सर्ट were आयोजित on 22 और 23 June 2012 at Croke पार्क स्टेडियम in डबलिन.
the first विदाई concert, offering 85,000 tickets, बेची out in a record-breaking 5 minutes and the latter screened live in cinemas worldwide.
विटामिन a is a समूह of nutritionally असंतृप्त hydrocarbons, which include रेटिनॉल, retinal, retinoic एसिड और अनेक provitamin A carotenoids among जिससे beta-carotene is the सबसे important.
Vitamin A has अनेक functions, it is महत्वपूर्ण for विकास और development, for the maintenance of the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली और शुभ vision.
Vitamin a is needed by the retina of the eye in the form of retinal, which combines साथ protein opsin to form rhodopsin the light-absorbing अणु, कि is necessary for both low-light ( scotopic दृष्टि ) and color vision.
विटामिन a भी functions in a very different भूमिका as an irreversibly oxidized form of retinol ज्ञात as retinoic एसिड, जिससे is an important hormone-like growth फ़ैक्टर लिये epithelial and अन्य कोशिकाएं.
in foods of एनिमल origin, the प्रमुख रूप of विटामिन a is an ester, primarily retinyl palmitate, जिससे is परिवर्तित to retinol ( chemically an दारू ) in the छोटी आंत.
the रेटिनॉल रूप कृत्यों as a भंडार form of the विटामिन, and can be converted to और इससे its visually क्रियाशील सुव्युद रूप, retinal.
The संबद्ध एसिड ( retinoic acid ), a metabolite कि can be irreversibly synthesized इससे विटामिन a, has only partial vitamin A कार्यकलाप, और करता not फलन in the retina for the विज़ुअल साईकिल.
Retinoic एसिड is प्रयुक्त लिये विकास और सेल्यूलर differentiation.
All forms of vitamin A have a beta-ionone ring to which an isoprenoid कड़ी is attached, called a retinyl group.
दोनो structural features are essential लिये vitamin activity.
The orange pigment of carrots – beta-carotene – can be represented as दो कनेक्ट retinyl समूह, which हैं प्रयुक्त in the body to contribute to vitamin a levels.
Alpha-carotene और gamma-carotene भी have a सिंगल retinyl group, which give उन्हें some विटामिन activity.
None of the other carotenes have विटामिन activity.
the carotenoid beta- cryptoxanthin possesses an ionone समूह and has विटामिन activity in इंसानो.
विटामिन a can be found in दो प्रिंसिपल फ़ॉर्म in foods :
Retinol, the form of vitamin a absorbed when eating एनिमल food sources, is a yellow, fat-soluble पदार्थ.
Since the pure दारू form is unstable, the vitamin is found in ऊतकों in a form of retinyl ester.
It is भी commercially produced और administered as esters ऐसे as retinyl एसीटेट or palmitate.
The carotenes alpha-carotene, beta-carotene, gamma-carotene ; and the xanthophyll beta-cryptoxanthin ( all of जिससे contain beta-ionone rings ), but no अन्य carotenoids, फलन as provitamin a in herbivores और सर्वाहारी पशु, which possess the एंजाइम ( 15-15'-dioxygenase ) जिससे cleaves beta-carotene in the intestinal mucosa और converts it रेटिनॉल.
In सामान्य, carnivores are poor converters of ionine-containing carotenoids, and pure carnivores such as cats and ferrets कमी 15-15'-dioxygenase और can not convert any carotenoids to retinal ( resulting in none of the carotenoids being forms of vitamin a लिये ये species ).
Selena Marie गोमेज़ ( born July 22, 1992 ) is an American सिंगर और actress.
वो बना her डेब्यू as a child actress in बार्नी & Friends.
In 2007, गोमेज़ आए to prominence as a starring cast सदस्य in the television श्रेणी wizards of waverly Place.
She हस्ताक्षरित to Hollywood Records the following साल, and became the संस्थापक और सीसे सिंगर of the पॉप band Selena Gomez & the झाँकी.
Their studio albums Kiss & बताना ( 2009 ), a साल बगैर बरसात ( 2010 ), and When the Sun Goes Down ( 2011 ) were certified सुनहरा by the Recording Industry संघ of America ( RIAA ) और have spawned platinum-certified singles `` Naturally ``, `` Who says ``, और `` प्रेम You like a Love सोंग ``.
After the release of television films और उनके accompanying soundtracks, गोमेज़ made उसके नाट्य फिल्मी debut in ramona and beezus in 2010 and starred in मोंटे Carlo in 2011.
Upon the निष्कर्ष of wizards of waverly प्लेस और the hiatus of Selena गोमेज़ & the झाँकी in 2012, वो केन्द्रित on उसके फिल्मी करियर, serving as a voice actress in Hotel Transylvania और starring in Spring Breakers the following साल.
उसके debut solo एल्बम is tentatively अनुसूचित to be released in गर्मियाँ 2013, and is preceded by its lead single `` आइये & Get it ``.
Outside of her work in the entertainment उद्योग, गोमेज़ is शामिल in philanthropic activities through charity work and various social and पर्यावरणीय कल्याणकारी.
Tracie monique Spencer ( born July 12, 1976 ) is an अमरीकी R & b and पॉप singer-songwriter, अभिनेत्री, and model.
Sacramento is the capital city of the u.S. राज्य of California and the सीट of सरकारी of sacramento काउंटी.
It is स्तिथ at the confluence of the Sacramento River और the अमरीकी नदी in the northern portion of California 's expansive सेंट्रल Valley.
साथ an estimated 2011 जनसांख्यिकी of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest नगर in California and the 35th largest city in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Sacramento is the कोर cultural और आर्थिक बीच of the sacramento metropolitan क्षेत्रफल which includes सात counties साथ an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123.
इसके metropolitan area is the fourth largest in California after the वृहद लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल, San Francisco Bay Area, और the San Diego महानगर area, as well as the 25th largest in the United राज्य.
sacramento was cited by समय पत्रिका as अमेरिका 's most ethnically और racially एकीकृत नगर in 2002.
Sacramento became a city through the प्रयत्न of the स्विस immigrant जॉन sutter, sr., उसके बेटे John Sutter, jr., and James W. Marshall.
sacramento grew quickly thanks to the protection of Sutter 's फोर्ट, जिससे was स्थापित by Sutter in 1839.
During the California Gold फटाफट, Sacramento थी a प्रमुख distribution पाइंट, a वाणिज्यिक and agricultural center, and a terminus लिये wagon trains, stagecoaches, riverboats, the telegraph, the टट्टू एक्स्प्रेस, and the पहला Transcontinental रेलरोड.
कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों, sacramento, अधिक commonly ज्ञात as Sacramento राज्य or Sac State, is the largest लोकल विश्वविद्यालयों.
it is एक of the twenty-three campuses of the California राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों प्रणाली.
Drexel विश्वविद्यालयों sacramento is स्तिथ in शहर, sacramento.
University of the Pacific 's McGeorge School of Law is स्तिथ in the Oak पार्क पड़ोस.
In addition, the विश्वविद्यालयों of California, डेविस is located in nearby डेविस, west of the पूंजी.
the uc डेविस Medical Center, a world-renowned research hospital, is स्तिथ in the city of Sacramento.
मेमोरियल दिन is a United States federal अवकाश which occurs प्रत्येक साल on the फाइनल सोमवार of may.
Memorial Day is a day of remembering the men और महिलाओं who died जबकि सेवारत in the संयुक्त राज्य हथियारबंद शक्तियां.
Formerly known as सजावट Day, it originated after the अमरीकी Civil War to commemorate the संघ और Confederate soldiers जो died in the Civil युद्ध.
By the 20th century Memorial दिन had महरूम extended to honor all अमेरिकी जो have died in all युद्धों.
it typically marks the start of the गर्मियाँ अवकाश ऋतु, जबकि मजदूर दिन marks इसके end.
Many people visit कब्रिस्तान and memorials, particularly to honor those जो have died in military सेवा.
Many स्वयंसेवक प्लेस an American ध्वज on each संगीन in नेशनल कब्रिस्तान.
by the जल्दी 20th century, Memorial दिन थी an अवसर for more general expressions of मेमोरी, as people visited the graves of their मृतक रिश्तेदारों in गिरिजाघर कब्रिस्तान, whether वे had परोसा in the military or not.
It also became a long वीकेंड increasingly devoted to shopping, परिवार महफिलों, आतिशबाजी, यात्राएँ to the बीच, and नेशनल media events.
सालाना सजावट Days लिये particular cemeteries हैं held on a Sunday in late spring or जल्दी गर्मियाँ in कुछ rural क्षेत्रों of the अमरीकी South, notably in the kyu.
In मामले involving a family graveyard where रिमोट ancestors as खूब as those who यहूद मृतक अधिक recently हैं दफ्न, इस may take on the अक्षर of an extended परिवार पुनर्मिलन to जिससे some people travel hundreds of miles.
लोगों gather on the designated day और put पुष्प on graves and renew सम्पर्क साथ kinfolk and अन्य.
वहीँ प्रायः is a धार्मिक service and a `` डिनर on the ground, '' the परंपरागत term लिये a potluck भोजन in जिससे लोगों प्रयुक्त to स्प्रेड the dishes आउट on sheets or tablecloths on the ग्रास.
It is believed कि this अभ्यास began before the अमरीकी सिविल War and यूँ may reflect the real उत्पत्ति of the `` मेमोरियल दिन '' idea.
Memorial Day is not to be confused with दिग्गजों Day ; Memorial दिन is a दिन of remembering the मेन और women जो died while सेवारत, while दिग्गजों Day celebrates the service of all u.S. military veterans, living or dead.
mt. zion Church राज्य इतिहास मार्कर निकट Philadelphia, मिसिसिपी.
स्वतंत्रता Summer ( भी ज्ञात as the मिसिसिपी Summer Project ) was a campaign in the संयुक्त States शुभारम्भ in जून 1964 to attempt to पंजीकरण as अनेक अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी voters as possible in Mississippi, which था historically excluded most अश्वेतों इससे मतदान.
The project भी set up dozens of स्वतंत्रता Schools, Freedom घरों, and जातियाँ centers in छोटी कस्बों throughout मिसिसिपी to aid the local ब्लैक population.
the प्रोजेक्ट was organized by the परिषद of Federated Organizations ( COFO ), a coalition of the मिसिसिपी branches of the four major civil rights organizations ( sncc, कोर, naacp और SCLC ).
सबसे of the impetus, नेतृत्व, and financing for the Summer Project आए इससे the sncc.
रॉबर्ट parris Moses, sncc फ़ील्ड secretary और co-director of cofo, directed the summer project.
Blues is the नाम given to both a musical form and a music विधा that originated in समुदायों of primarily the `` Deep दक्षिण `` of the United States around the समाप्त of the 19th century इससे spirituals, work गीतों, फ़ील्ड hollers, shouts and chants, and rhymed सरल narrative ballads.
the blues form, ubiquitous in jazz, लय और ब्लूज़, और rock और फेंकें is characterized by विशिष्ट कॉर्ड progressions, of which the twelve-bar ब्लूज़ chord progression is the सबसे common.
the ब्लू notes कि, लिये अर्थपूर्ण purposes are सुंग or निभाई flattened or gradually bent ( minor 3rd to major 3rd ) in संबंध to the पिच of the प्रमुख scale, are also an महत्वपूर्ण part of the ध्वनि.
the ब्लूज़ genre is आधारित on the blues रूप लकिन possesses other characteristics ऐसे as विशिष्ट गीत, bass लाइनों, और instruments.
ब्लूज़ can be subdivided into several subgenres ranging from country to शहरी ब्लूज़ that were more or कम popular दौरान अलग periods of the 20th सदी.
Best known are the डेल्टा, piedmont, Jump, and Chicago ब्लूज़ styles.
संसार War II चिह्नित the transition from acoustic to electric blues and the प्रगतिशील खोलने of blues म्यूज़िक to a wider दर्शक, especially श्वेत श्रोता.
In the 1960s और 1970s, a hybrid form पुकारा blues-rock विकसित.
the term `` the blues '' refers to the `` blue devils '', अर्थ वेदना और उदासी ; an जल्दी उपयोग of the term in this sense is मिला in George colman 's one-act तमाशा ब्लू शैतानों ( 1798 ).
हालांकि the उपयोग of the phrase in African-American म्यूज़िक may be पुरानी, it has महरूम attested to चूंकि 1912, when हार्ट wand 's `` Dallas Blues `` became the first copyrighted blues संयोजन.
In lyrics the phrase is often used to describe a depressed मनोदशा.
A quarter डालर, commonly shortened to क्वार्टर, is a सिक्का लायक 1⁄4 of a United राज्य dollar or 25 सेंट.
the क्वार्टर रै महरूम उत्पादित since 1796.
the चुनाव of 25¢ as a denomination, as opposed to 20¢ which is अधिक आम in अन्य parts of the world, originated with the practice of dividing स्पेनी Milled डॉलर into आठ कील shaped खण्ड ( cf. `` टुकड़े of eight `` ).
At एक समय `` दो बिट्स ``, i.e. two wedges, each wedge an आठवीं, यूँ a क्वार्टर of the Spanish real, थी a common nickname लिये a क्वार्टर.
Day of the Dead ( ) is a Mexican holiday celebrated throughout Mexico और around the world in other संस्कृतियों.
the holiday focuses on महफिलों of परिवार and friends to pray for और remember मित्रों and परिवार सदस्यों जो have died.
It is विशेषकर मनाये in मैक्सिको, जहाँ it is a नेशनल अवकाश, and all बैंको हैं बंद.
the जश्न takes प्लेस on November 1 and 2, in कनेक्शन साथ the कैथोलिक holidays of All संतो ' Day और All Souls ' दिन.
परंपराओं connected साथ the holiday include भवन private altars honoring the मृतक using शुगर skulls, marigolds, और the favorite foods and पेय of the रजि and visiting क़ब्रों with these as उपहार.
They also छोड़ possessions of the deceased.
Scholars ट्रेस the origins of the आधुनिक मैक्सिकन holiday to स्वदेशी observances dating वापस सैंकड़ों of years and to an एज़टेक festival समर्पित to the देवी mictecacihuatl.
the अवकाश has spread throughout the world : in Brazil, dia de Finados is a public holiday कि many brazilians celebrate by visiting cemeteries and चर्च.
in Spain, वहीँ are त्यौहार and parades, and, at the समाप्त of the दिन, लोगों gather at कब्रिस्तान and दुवा for उनके dead loved ones.
समान observances occur elsewhere in Europe, and similarly themed जश्न appear in many एशियाई और African संस्कृतियों.
ANITA Mk viii.
The अनीता चिह्नित VII and ANITA चिह्नित viii calculators यहूद launched simultaneously in late 1961 as the world 's first all- electronic डेस्कटॉप calculators.
Designed और built by the घंटी Punch co.
in Britain, और marketed through its sumlock Comptometer division, वे प्रयुक्त vacuum tubes and cold-cathode switching tubes in उनके logic circuits और nixie tubes लिये उनके numerical displays.
They were the first of a series of desktop and hand-held electronic calculators कि the कम्पनी was to develop and sell under the ANITA नाम into the mid-1970s.
जार्ज वॉशिंगटन ( –, 1799 ) थी the पहला अध्यक्ष of the United States ( 1789–1797 ), the commander-in-chief of the महाद्वीपीय Army दौरान the American क्रांतिकारी War, and एक of the founding Fathers of the United States.
he presided over the सम्मेलन कि drafted the Constitution, which replaced the आलेख of कनफेडरेशन और established the स्थिति of अध्यक्ष.
Washington थी निर्वाचित President as the सर्वसम्मत चुनाव of the 69 निर्वाचक in 1788, और he served two terms in दफ्तर.
He oversaw the सृष्टि of a strong, well-financed national सरकारी that कायम neutrality in the wars raging in यूरोपीय, suppressed विद्रोह, and won acceptance among Americans of all types.
उसके leadership style established many फ़ॉर्म and rituals of government कि have been प्रयुक्त चूंकि, such as using a cabinet प्रणाली and delivering an inaugural address.
Further, the peaceful परिवर्तन from उसके presidency to the presidency of जॉन एडम्स established a परंपरा कि continues into the 21st सदी.
Washington थी hailed as `` पिता of his देश `` even during उसके lifetime.
वॉशिंगटन थी born into the प्रांतीय gentry of Colonial वर्जिनिया ; his wealthy planter परिवार owned tobacco plantations and स्लेव.
After दोनो उसके father and पुरानी brother died when he was यंग, Washington became personally और professionally संलग्न to the powerful William फेयरफैक्स, जो promoted his करियर as a surveyor और सिपाही.
Washington जल्दी became a senior अधिकारी in the colonial शक्तियां दौरान the पहला चरण of the French और भारतीय War.
Chosen by the Second Continental Congress in 1775 to be commander-in-chief of the महाद्वीपीय Army in the American क्रान्ति, Washington प्रबंधित to force the British out of Boston in 1776, but थी defeated और लगभग captured बाद that साल जब he lost New यॉर्क City.
बाद क्रासिंग the डेलावेयर River in the मुर्दे of winter, he पराजित the British in two लड़ाइयों, retook नई जर्सी and restored momentum to the Patriot कारण.
क्युकी of उसके रणनीति, क्रांतिकारी शक्तियां captured दो major अंग्रेजों armies at Saratoga in 1777 और yorktown in 1781.
इतिहासकारों laud वॉशिंगटन लिये his selection and supervision of his सेनापतियों, encouragement of morale and क्षमता to थाम साथ the army, समन्वय साथ the राज्य governors और state मिलिशिया units, relations with कॉंग्रेस और attention to supplies, लोजिस्टिक्स, and प्रशिक्षण.
in बैटल, however, Washington थी repeatedly outmaneuvered by British generals with larger armies.
बाद विजय had been finalized in 1783, Washington resigned as Commander-in-chief rather than seize शक्ति, proving उसके विपक्ष to dictatorship और उसके commitment to अमरीकी republicanism.
असंतुष्ट साथ the weaknesses of the आलेख of Confederation, in 1787 Washington presided over the संवैधानिक Convention कि drafted the United States Constitution.
निर्वाचित unanimously as the first President of the United States in 1789, he attempted to bring rival factions together to unify the स्वदेश.
he supported सिकंदर हैमिल्टन 's programs to pay बंद all state और नेशनल debt, to implement an प्रभावी tax system and to create a नेशनल bank ( despite opposition इससे थामस Jefferson ).
वॉशिंगटन proclaimed the United States neutral in the युद्धों raging in Europe बाद 1793.
He avoided युद्ध साथ Great ब्रिटेन और गारंटी a दशक of सलाम और profitable व्यापार by securing the Jay सन्धि in 1795, despite intense विपक्ष from the Jeffersonians.
Although never officially joining the federalist Party, he समर्थित इसके कार्यक्रम.
Washington 's Farewell Address was an influential प्राइमर on रिपब्लिकन virtue and a warning विरूद्ध partisanship, sectionalism, and involvement in foreign wars.
he retired इससे the प्रेसिडेंसी in 1797 और लौटे to his home, माउंट Vernon, और उसके घरेलू जीवन जहाँ he managed a किस्में of enterprises.
He freed all उसके slaves by his फाइनल होगा.
वॉशिंगटन था a दृष्टि of a ग्रेट और शक्तिशाली स्वदेश कि would be निर्मित on रिपब्लिकन लाइनों using संघीय power.
he sought to उपयोग the national government to बचाना liberty, improve अवसंरचना, open the western lands, प्रचार कॉमर्स, found a permanent capital, reduce क्षेत्रीय तनाव और प्रचार a spirit of अमरीकी राष्ट्रवाद.
At his death, वॉशिंगटन थी eulogized as `` first in युद्ध, first in peace, और first in the hearts of his countrymen '' by Henry ली.
The federalists made him the symbol of उनके party but लिये अनेक years, the jeffersonians जारी to अविश्वास उसके influence और विलम्बित building the Washington Monument.
as the नेता of the पहला कामयाब क्रान्ति विरूद्ध a औपनिवेशिक साम्राज्य in world इतिहास, वॉशिंगटन became an अंतरराष्ट्रीय icon for liberation and राष्ट्रवाद, विशेषकर in फ़्रांस और लैटिन अमेरिका.
फिस्कल Year 2012 U.S. Federal बिता – नकदी or Budget आधार.
फिस्कल साल 2012 u.S. संघीय Receipts.
The बजट of the United States Government often begins as the President 's proposal to the U.S. Congress which recommends funding स्तर for the अगला fiscal साल, beginning अक्तूबर 1.
however, Congress is the body required by विधि to pass a बजट annually और to submit the बजट passed by दोनो houses to the अध्यक्ष लिये हस्ताक्षर.
congressional निर्णय are governed by rules और विधान regarding the संघीय budget प्रक्रम.
बजट committees नियत spending हद for the House and सीनेट समितियों और लिये Appropriations subcommittees, जिससे तब स्वीकृति individual appropriations बिल्स to allocate funding to विभिन्न संघीय कार्यक्रम.
If कॉंग्रेस fails to pass an annual budget ( as has महरूम the मामला चूंकि 2009 ), a श्रेणी of Appropriations बिल्स must be passed as `` रोकें गैप '' उपायों.
बाद कॉंग्रेस approves an appropriations bill, it is sent to the President, who may चिह्न it into विधि, or may veto it ( as he would a budget when passed by the कॉंग्रेस ).
a vetoed विधेयक is sent back to कॉंग्रेस, जिससे can pass it into विधि साथ a two-thirds majority in प्रत्येक कक्ष.
कॉंग्रेस may भी combine सब or कुछ appropriations bills into an omnibus reconciliation विधेयक.
In जोड, the president may निवेदन और the Congress may pass supplemental appropriations bills or emergency supplemental appropriations बिल्स.
Several government agencies provide बजट data और analysis.
ये शामिल the सरकारी Accountability दफ्तर ( gao ), Congressional Budget Office, the Office of Management और Budget ( omb ) और the U.S. राजकोष Department.
These agencies have reported that the federal सरकारी is facing a series of महत्वपूर्ण financing चुनौतियां.
in the short-run, tax revenues have अस्वीकृत significantly due to a severe मंदी and tax policy चुनाव, while expenditures have विस्तारित लिये wars, unemployment बीमे and other safety जाल spending.
in the long-run, expenditures सम्बन्धित to healthcare programs ऐसे as Medicare और Medicaid हैं प्रक्षिप्त to grow faster than the economy overall as the जनसांख्यिकी matures.
New गिनी ( भी, टोक पिसिन : niugini, डच : nieuw Guinea, और ; historically : पापुआ ) is the संसार 's second largest द्वीप, after ग्रीनलैंड, covering a जमीन क्षेत्रफल of 786,000 km2.
स्तिथ in the southwest प्रशांत Ocean, it lies geographically to the ईस्ट of the Malay Archipelago, साथ which it is sometimes शामिल as part of a वृहद Indo-Australian द्वीपसमूह.
geologically it is a part of the वही tectonic plate as ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
जब world sea स्तर were कम, the two shared shorelines ( जिससे अभी lie 100 to 140 metres below समुद्र स्तर ), combining साथ lands अभी inundated into the tectonic continent of Sahul, भी ज्ञात as वृहद Australia.
the two landmasses became separated when the area now known as the टोरेस जलसन्धि flooded बाद the समाप्त of the पिछला glacial काल.
Anthropologically, नई गिनी is considered part of मॅलानिशिया.
Politically, the western हाफ of the द्वीप comprises दो Indonesian प्रांतों : Papua and वेस्ट पापुआ.
the पूर्वी हाफ forms the मेनलैंड of the country of Papua New Guinea.
The द्वीप रै a population of about 7.5 लाख, with a बहुत कम population घनत्व of तभी 8 inh/km2.
New Guinea is differentiated इससे इसके drier, flatter, और कम fertile दक्षिणी counterpart, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, by इसके much higher वर्षा and इसके क्रियाशील volcanic geology, साथ its उच्चतम point, Puncak jaya, reaching an उन्नयन of 4,884 m ( 16,023 ft ).
Yet the दो land masses share a similar animal fauna, साथ marsupials, including wallabies and possums, and the egg-laying monotreme, the spiny anteater, or एकिडना.
Other than bats and कुछ दो दर्जन indigenous rodent genera, there हैं no pre-human स्वदेशी placental स्तनधारियों.
सूअर, several additional प्रजाति of चूहे, और the ancestor of the नई Guinea Singing Dog यहूद introduced with human colonization.
the इंसान उपस्थिति on the island dates back at least 40,000 years to the oldest इंसान migrations out of Africa.
Research indicates कि the highlands यहूद an early और independent बीच of कृषि, with evidence of सिंचाई going वापस at तनिक 10,000 years.
Because of the समय गहराई of इसके inhabitation और इसके highly fractured लैंडस्केप, an unusually ऊँची number of languages हैं बोला on the द्वीप, with कुछ 1,000 languages ( a फिगर higher than कि of most continents ) having been catalogued out of an अनुमानित world-wide pre-columbian कुल of 6,000 इंसान dialects.
सबसे हैं वर्गीकृत as Papuan भाषाएं, a generally स्वीकृत भौगोलिक term which a अल्पसंख्यक of लेखक hold to be a genetic one.
a क्रमांक of ऑस्ट्रोनीशियाई भाषाएं हैं spoken on the coast और on offshore islands.
In the 16th सदी स्पेनी explorers खोजा the द्वीप and called it Nueva Guinea.
in हाल history western नई Guinea was included in the डच East Indies colony.
the Germans annexed the northern coast of the पूर्वी हाफ of the द्वीप as German नई Guinea in their pre–World युद्ध I effort to स्थापित themselves as a colonial power, whilst the south eastern portion थी reluctantly claimed by Britain.
following the Treaty of Versailles, the जर्मनी portion was awarded to Australia ( which was already governing the अंग्रेजों अर्जी, नामित the territory of Papua ) as a League of Nations mandate.
The eastern half of the द्वीप थी granted स्वतंत्रता from Australia as Papua नई गिनी in 1975.
the western हाफ gained independence इससे the डच in 1961, but became भाग of इंडोनेशिया जल्द afterwards in विवादास्पद हालातों.
`` the Van buren लड़कों '' is the 148th एपीसोड of the sitcom seinfeld, and name of a fictional नई यॉर्क गली गिरोह.
उनके sign is crossing the हैंड्स, with एक हाथ with सब the fingers 'up ' और स्प्रेड out.
the अन्य hand रै all लकिन the अंगूठा and pointer finger up, लिये a total of आठ ( 8 ).
The gang is नामित लिये the 8th अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य, Martin वैन buren ( जो was the पहला president इससे New यॉर्क ).
इस was the 14th एपीसोड लिये the 8th ऋतु.
it aired on February 6, 1997.
Bevo sign
Bevo थी a non-alcoholic malt पेय, or near beer, brewed in the संयुक्त राज्य by the anheuser-busch कम्पनी शुरूआत in the early 20th century.
bevo enjoyed इसके greatest कामयाबी during the time of निषेध, when beer, wine और distilled liquors, यहूद made illegal for thirteen सालो.
The Anheuser-Busch कम्पनी प्रारंभ brewing Bevo when alcoholic पेय were निषिद्ध in 1916 by the संयुक्त States armed शक्तियां.
उत्पादन rose greatly with national निषेध in 1919, और bevo थी by दूर the most popular of the many `` खाद्यान्न पेय '' or `` near beers '' of the समय.
at the शिखर of its लोकप्रियता in the जल्दी 1920s, more than five million cases of bevo यहूद sold annually.
Renard with a mug of Bevo, चित्रित in terra cotta on the interior walls of the bevo भवन, st. लुई
Labels on the bottles billed it as `` bevo the Beverage ''.
the नाम `` bevo '' was coined इससे the शब्द `` पेय '' और the स्लावी भाषा शब्द लिये बियर `` pivo '', and थी सुनाया `` bee-vo ''.
कुछ bevo advertising featured the character `` renard the फॉक्स `` ( based on the protagonist of a मध्यकालीन फ्रेंच folk-tale ), and promotional मग with this अक्षर were manufactured.
In 1930 Anheuser-Busch निर्मित a series of boat-bodied गाड़ियाँ in इसके St. Louis दुकानें पुकारा the `` Bevo नौकाएँ '' which यहूद प्रयुक्त लिये promotion.
सात हैं believed to have been built on pierce-arrow 8-cylinder chassis जबकि एक surviving example थी based upon 1930 कैडिलैक 353 v8.
Billboard advertising Bevo in Trenton, नई Jersey, 1917
A contemporary विज्ञापन पढ़ा `` कूलिंग and invigorating, Bevo the Beverage.
अनुक्रम by the case from अपना पंसारी, druggist, or dealer. ''
the पेपर लेबल on the back of the बोतल पढ़ा `` the All-Year-Round Soft Drink.
appetizing - healthful - पौष्टिक - Refreshing.
Milk or जल may contain जीवाणु.
bevo never does. ''
Bevo became part of the popular संस्कृति of the समय, और is उल्लेखित in various लोकप्रिय songs and Vaudeville skits of the era.
This led to द्वितीयक कठबोली उपयोग of the शब्द ; for उदाहरण, in American सैन्य slang a यंग and inexperienced अधिकारी थी called a `` Bevo ''.
The University of टेक्सास named its शुभंकर `` Bevo '', a name जिससे has stuck to इस day.
Irving बर्लिन शामिल a paean to the पेय, `` You Ca n't रहो Up on bevo '', in उसके 1917 army revue, Yip यिप Yaphank.
in the late 1920s smuggled बूटलेग बियर and liquor as खूब as `` homebrew ``, cut into bevo 's marketshare.
With बिक्री flattening to 100,000 cases by 1929, Anheuser-Busch रोका production.
The bevo Mill, St. लुई, in 2008
the Bevo building, साथ the Renard अक्षर prominently displayed at the किनारे, स्टिल operates as a bottling facility at their main ब्रेवरी in St. Louis, मिसौरी.
the लैंडमार्क bevo Mill, constructed by August Anheuser बुच, sr. in 1917.
it was बंद in 2009, लकिन it reopened in अक्तूबर 2009 अंतर्गत new owners.
Bevo is भी उल्लेखित in the छोटी story `` the हत्यारे `` by Ernest हेमिंगवे ; as well as in Babbitt by sinclair Lewis.
Mylanta is an over the काउंटर medication used लिये the उपचार of एसिड reflux, heartburn, और gastroesophageal reflux बीमारी ( भी ज्ञात as गर्ड ).
Foremilk and hindmilk samples of इंसान स्तन milk
a कांच of pasteurized cow मिल्क
मिल्क is a white द्रव उत्पादित by the mammary glands of स्तनधारियों.
it is the प्राथमिक source of nutrition लिये यंग mammals पहले they are able to डाइजेस्ट अन्य प्रकार of food.
Early- lactation मिल्क contains colostrum, जिससे carries the माँ 's antibodies to the baby and can reduce the risk of many रोगों in the baby.
It भी contains many other nutrients.
As an agricultural product, मिल्क is निकाली from स्तनधारियों और used as food for humans.
विश्वव्यापी, दुग्ध farms produced about 730 million टन of मिल्क in 2011.
इण्डिया is the संसार 's largest producer और उपभोक्ता of milk, yet neither निर्यात nor imports मिल्क.
नई जीलैंड, the European संघ 's 27 member राज्य, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, and the संयुक्त राज्य are the संसार 's largest निर्यातक of मिल्क और मिल्क उत्पाद.
China and Russia are the संसार 's largest importers of milk and मिल्क उत्पाद.
throughout the world, there हैं अधिक than 6 अरब उपभोक्ता of milk and milk products.
Over 750 लाख लोगों सजीव भीतर दुग्ध खेती households.
मिल्क is a कुंजी योगदानकर्ता to improving पोषण और food सुरक्षा particularly in developing countries.
Improvements in livestock and दुग्ध technology offer significant promise in reducing poverty और malnutrition in the संसार.
मोटरसाइकिल speedway, usually referred to as speedway, is a motorcycle sport involving चार और sometimes up to छह riders स्पर्धा over four anti-clockwise laps of an ओवल सर्किट.
स्पीडवे motorcycles उपयोग only एक gear and have no brakes and racing takes place on a चपटा oval track प्रायः consisting of dirt or loosely packed shale.
प्रतिस्पर्धी उपयोग this सतह to slide उनके मशीने sideways, powersliding or broadsiding into the bends.
on the straight sections of the track the motorcycles reach speeds of up.
The सटीक origins of the sport हैं unknown but there is evidence of a प्रकार of speedway racing होने practised in the यूएसए पहले the First संसार War and in Australia in the late 1910s और जल्दी 1920s.
वहीँ हैं अभी दोनो domestic और international प्रतियोगिताओं in a क्रमांक of देशों सहित the स्पीडवे संसार Cup whilst the उच्चतम overall scoring व्यक्तिगत in the स्पीडवे Grand प्रिक्स events is pronounced the संसार champion.
Speedway is popular in central और northern Europe और to a lesser extent in Australia and North अमेरिका.
a रूपांतर of track racing, स्पीडवे is administered internationally by the Fédération internationale de motocyclisme ( fim ).
Domestic speedway कार्यक्रम हैं regulated by fim संबद्ध national मोटर sport federations.
Vitamin D is a group of fat-soluble secosteroids जिम्मेदार लिये intestinal absorption of calcium and फास्फेट.
in इंसानो, the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण related compounds of vitamin D are विटामिन D2 and विटामिन d3.
Cholecalciferol ( विटामिन d3 ) और ergocalciferol ( विटामिन D2 ) are अद्वितीय as वे constitute what we जान as vitamin D and can be ingested from the आहार and/or supplements.
The body can भी synthesize विटामिन D ( इससे कोलेस्ट्रॉल ) when sun एक्सपोज़र is पर्याप्त ( hence its nickname, the `` sunshine vitamin '' ).
Although vitamin D is commonly called a vitamin, it is नहीं दरअसल an essential dietary vitamin in the सख्त sense, as it can be synthesized in पर्याप्त amounts by most mammals exposed to धूप.
( Cats and dogs can नहीं synthesize विटामिन D efficiently and must प्राप्त it in उनके आहार. )
an organic रासायनिक compound ( or related set of compounds ) is only scientifically पुकारा a विटामिन जब it can नहीं be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an सजीव, और जरूर be obtained from their आहार.
however, as with other यौगिकों commonly पुकारा vitamins, विटामिन d was discovered in an effort to find the dietary substance कि was lacking in a disease, namely, rickets, the childhood रूप of osteomalacia.
additionally, जैसे other यौगिकों called विटामिन, in the developed संसार विटामिन D is added to staple भोजन, such as milk, to avoid बीमारी due to deficiency.
उपायों of सीरम levels प्रतिबिंबित endogenous synthesis इससे एक्सपोज़र to sunlight as well as सेवन from the diet, और it is believed कि synthesis may contribute generally to the मेंटेनेंस of adequate सीरम concentrations.
The evidence indicates that the संश्लेषण of vitamin d from sun एक्सपोज़र works in a feedback loop कि prevents toxicity but, क्युकी of uncertainty about the cancer रिस्क इससे धूप, no recommendations are issued by the संस्थान of आयुर्विज्ञान, USA, for the राशि of सूर्य एक्सपोज़र required to मिलें विटामिन d requirements.
तदनुसार, the dietary Reference intakes for विटामिन D assume कि no synthesis occurs और कि सब of a व्यक्ति 's विटामिन d is from their diet, although कि will rarely occur in practice.
In the जिगर vitamin d is converted to calcidiol, जिससे is भी ज्ञात as calcifediol ( INN ), 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, or 25-hydroxyvitamin d—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D ; and which is the विशिष्ट vitamin D metabolite कि is measured in serum to determine a व्यक्ति 's vitamin D status.
भाग of the calcidiol is converted by the kidneys to calcitriol, the biologically active form of विटामिन D. Calcitriol circulates as a हार्मोन in the blood, regulating the विशेषज्ञता of calcium and phosphate in the bloodstream and promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of अस्थि.
calcidiol is भी परिवर्तित to calcitriol outside of the गुर्दे लिये अन्य उद्देश्य, such as the proliferation, differentiation और apoptosis of कोशिकाएं ; calcitriol also affects neuromuscular function और सूजन.
परे इसके उपयोग to prevent osteomalacia or rickets, the प्रमाण for other health प्रभाव of vitamin D supplementation in the general population is inconsistent.
the best evidence of benefit is लिये अस्थि health और a घटी in mortality in बुजुर्ग महिलाओं.
The duramax is a General मोटर्स diesel engine family लिये light- और medium ड्यूटी ट्रक, designed by isuzu.
The 6.6-liter Duramax is produced by dmax, a joint venture between GM और Isuzu in Moraine, ओहियो.
This इंजन थी initially installed in 2001 model year चेवी और जीएमसी trucks and रै महरूम an विकल्प चूंकि then in pickups, vans, and medium-duty trucks.
In 2006, उत्पादन at moraine थी reportedly सीमित to लगभग 200,000 इंजन प्रति साल.
on May 9, 2007, DMAX announced the production of the 1,000,000th duramax v-8 diesel at its Moraine सुविधा.
duramax LML
balto.
is also a परंपरागत लिखा abbreviation लिये बाल्टीमोर, मेरीलैंड.
प्रतिमा of balto in सेंट्रल Park ( नई यॉर्क नगर )
Balto ( 1919 – कूच 14, 1933 ) was a siberian हस्की sled श्वान who led उसके टोली on the फाइनल leg of the 1925 सीरम run to nome, in which डिप्थीरिया antitoxin was transported from anchorage, अलास्का, to nenana, Alaska, by ट्रैन और तब to nome by श्वान sled to कॉम्बैट an outbreak of the बीमारी.
the चलाएं is commemorated by the सालाना Iditarod Trail Sled श्वान Race.
balto was नामित बाद the Sami एक्सप्लोरर Samuel Balto.
balto died at the age of 14.
प्राध्यापक स्टीफन Hawking, known for होने a सैद्धांतिक physicist, रै appeared in अनेक works of लोकप्रिय culture.
the Nissan Maxima is a mid-size / entry-level luxury car manufactured by Nissan, marketed as the `` four-door sports car ''.
The origins of the Maxima began in जुलाई 1976 as the Datsun 810, an upscale six-cylinder संस्करण of the bluebird, and was spun into इसके अपना लकीर in 1981, having been made लगातार चूंकि तब.
The `` Maxima '' नाम थी applied धीरे, beginning in 1981.
Most pre-2004 maximas यहूद निर्मित in oppama, Japan, until the current उत्तर अमरीकी Maximas प्रारंभ being समवेत in smyrna, टेनेसी.
the `` उच्चिष्ट '' रै भी been लागू to cefiros और चलेगा in various markets.
Propolis as छत्ता sealing
Propolis is a resinous mixture कि honey bees collect इससे tree कलियों, sap flows, or अन्य वनस्पति sources.
It is प्रयुक्त as a sealant for unwanted open स्पेसेस in the hive.
Propolis is प्रयुक्त लिये छोटी gaps ( approximately or less ), जबकि larger spaces are प्रायः भर साथ beeswax.
Its रंग varies depending on its botanical सोर्स, the most common being dark भूरा.
Propolis is स्टिकी at और ऊपर रूम तापमान,.
at lower temperatures, it becomes मुश्किल और very भंगुर.
Steven Tyler ( born Steven Victor tallarico ; कूच 26, 1948 ) is an अमरीकी सिंगर, songwriter, और multi-instrumentalist, बेहतरीन known as the frontman और सीसे सिंगर of the Boston -based चट्टान band Aerosmith, in जिससे he भी plays the हार्मोनिका, and occasional पियानो and percussion.
He is known as the `` Demon of screamin ' '' due to उसके high screams and उसके चौड़ी गायन दायरा.
he is also ज्ञात for उसके on-stage acrobatics.
दौरान his high-energy performances, he प्रायः dresses in उज्जवल, रंगीन outfits with his ट्रेडमार्क स्कार्फ hanging from his microphone स्टैंड.
in the 1970s, टायलर रोज़ to prominence as the frontman of Aerosmith, जिससे released such milestone hard चट्टान एल्बम as खिलौने in the Attic and रॉक्स.
in the लेट 1970s और जल्दी 1980s, Tyler had a heavy ड्रग and alcohol addiction, and the band 's लोकप्रियता waned.
He completed drug पुनर्वास in 1986 and subsequently maintained गम्भीरता for over 20 सालो, but had a पतन with नुस्खा painkillers in the late 2000s, for जिससे he successfully प्राप्त उपचार in 2009.
बाद एरोस्मिथ शुभारम्भ a उल्लेखनीय वापसी in the late 1980s and early 1990s with the एल्बम स्थाई अवकाश, पंप, और Get a Grip, टायलर became a household name and रै remained a relevant चट्टान प्रतीक.
As a परिणाम, he रै चूंकि embarked on अनेक solo endeavors सहित guest दिखावे on अन्य कलाकारों ' म्यूज़िक, फिल्मी and TV भूमिकाएँ ( सहित as a judge on American Idol ), authoring a bestselling किताब, और solo work ( including a शीर्ष 40 hit सिंगल in 2011 ).
however, he has continued to record म्यूज़िक and perform साथ एरोस्मिथ, बाद more than 43 सालो in the बैंड.
the बैंड 's नवीनतम एल्बम, म्यूज़िक इससे Another Dimension !
, was released on नवम्बर 6, 2012.
टायलर is included among Rolling पत्थरों 100 Greatest गायकों.
he थी भी क्रमित 3rd on Hit parader 's शीर्ष 100 मेटल vocalists of सब Time.
In 2001 he थी inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of कीर्ति with Aerosmith, and he थी the प्रस्तुतकर्ता when AC/DC was inducted into the हॉल of Fame in 2003.
In 2013, टायलर and उसके songwriting partner Joe पेरी होगा be प्राप्तकर्ता of the ASCAP संस्थापकों पुरस्कार और will also be inducted into the songwriters Hall of कीर्ति.
The liver produces urea in the urea cycle as a बर्बाद उत्पाद of the पाचन of प्रोटीन.
Normal human वयस्क blood should contain between 7 to 21 mg of यूरिया nitrogen per 100 ml ( 7–21 mg/ dl ) of रक्त.
Individual laboratories may have different सन्दर्भ ranges, and this is क्युकी the procedure may vary.
Wayne Fontes ( born February 2, 1940 ) is a पूर्व American football coach और college and पेशेवर football player जो was the सिर coach of the NFL 's डेट्रॉयट शेर इससे 1988 to 1996.
His 67 विन्स और 71 losses are each the सबसे for a सिर कोच in team history.
the यहूदियों ( ISO 259-3 israeli pronunciation ), also known as the यहूदी लोगों, हैं a nation and an ethnoreligious group, originating in the Israelites or Hebrews of the Ancient निकट ईस्ट.
The Jewish नस्ल, nationality, and religion are strongly interrelated, as judaism is the traditional आस्था of the यहूदी nation.
Converts to Judaism, जिनकी औकात as यहूदियों within the यहूदी ethnos is बराबर to those born into it, have महरूम absorbed into the यहूदी people throughout the सहस्राब्दियों.
In यहूदी परंपरा, Jewish ancestry is traced to the Biblical patriarchs अब्राहम, Isaac and याक़ूब in the दूसरी millennium bce.
The modern State of इसराईल थी established as a यहूदी nation-state, और defines itself as such in इसके Basic Laws.
इसके विधि of वापसी grants the right of citizenship to any Jew जो requests it.
Israel is the तभी country जहाँ Jews हैं a majority of the जनसांख्यिकी.
यहूदियों also enjoyed political स्वायत्तता twice before in प्राचीन इतिहास.
the पहला of ये अवधि lasted इससे 1350 to 586 bce, और encompassed the अवधि of the Judges, the संयुक्त Monarchy, और the Divided Monarchy of the Kingdoms of Israel और यहूदा, समाप्ति साथ the विनाश of the First टेम्पल.
The दूसरी was the period of the Hasmonean Kingdom spanning from 140 to 37 BCE.
चूंकि the विनाश of the First टेम्पल, most यहूदियों have जिया in diaspora.
A minority in प्रत्येक देश in जिससे they सजीव ( मगर इसराईल ), वे have अक्सर अनुभवी persecution throughout इतिहास, resulting in a population that रै fluctuated दोनो in numbers and distribution over the सदियां.
the संसार Jewish जनसांख्यिकी पहुँचे a शिखर of 15 लाख prior to the दूसरी World War, लकिन six million Jews यहूद मारे in the holocaust.
Since तब the population has risen again and, थी अनुमानित at 13.4 लाख by the उत्तर अमरीकी यहूदी आंकड़ा बैंको, or less than 0.2 % of the total संसार जनसांख्यिकी ( roughly एक in every 514 people ).
According to this report, about 42.5 % of सब यहूदियों reside in इसराईल ( 5.7 million ), और 39.3 % in the United States ( 5.3 लाख ), with सबसे of the शेष living in यूरोपीय ( 1.5 लाख ) and Canada ( 0.4 million ).
ये संख्याएँ शामिल सब those जो consider themselves यहूदियों, whether or not they हैं संबद्ध with a Jewish organization.
the total संसार Jewish population, however, is difficult to measure.
In addition to मुद्दे with census methodology, वहीँ हैं halakhic विवादों regarding जो is a Jew और धर्मनिरपेक्ष, राजनैतिक, और ancestral identification कारकों कि may affect the फिगर considerably.
Corpus christi बारात.
आयल on कैनवास by Carl एमिल doepler.
कॉर्पस domini redirects here.
लिये other उपयोग देखिए Corpus Domini ( बहुविकल्पी )
The feast of कॉर्पस christi ( लैटिन लिये देह of मसीह ), भी ज्ञात as Corpus Domini, is a लैटिन Rite liturgical solemnity celebrating the परंपरा and belief in the देह and blood of Jesus मसीह and his रियल Presence in the Eucharist.
It emphasizes the आनन्द of the institution of the eucharist, जिससे थी observed on Holy Thursday in the somber atmosphere of the nearness of शुभ शुक्रवार.
in the present रोमन missal, the feast is designated the solemnity of The Most Holy देह और Blood of मसीह.
it is भी celebrated in कुछ Anglican, लूथरन, and Old Catholic चर्च that थाम समान beliefs regarding the Real उपस्थिति.
the feast is liturgically celebrated on the Thursday after Trinity संडे or, `` where the Solemnity of the सबसे Holy Body and Blood of Christ is नहीं a Holy दिन of Obligation, it is आबंटित to the Sunday after the सबसे पावन ट्रिनिटी as its proper दिन ''.
at the end of पावन द्रव्यमान, there is often a बारात of the धन्य sacrament, generally प्रदर्शित in a monstrance.
the बारात is followed by सुनाकर of the धन्य sacrament.
A notable Eucharistic बारात is that presided over by the Pope प्रत्येक साल in रोम, where it begins at the archbasilica of St. John lateran and makes इसके way to the Basilica of संत Mary Major, जहाँ it concludes साथ सुनाकर.
C-reactive प्रोटीन ( CRP ) is a प्रोटीन found in the रक्त, the स्तर of which rise in जवाब to inflammation ( i.e. c-reactive protein is an acute-phase protein ).
Its physiological भूमिका is to bind to phosphocholine expressed on the सतह of मुर्दे or dying cells ( और some types of bacteria ) in अनुक्रम to activate the पूरक प्रणाली via the C1Q complex.
सीआरपी is synthesized by the जिगर in response to कारकों released by macrophages and मोटे कोशिकाएं ( adipocytes ).
it is a सदस्य of the pentraxin family of proteins.
It is नहीं सम्बन्धित to c-peptide or protein c.
c-reactive protein थी the पहला पैटर्न मान्यता receptor ( prr ) to be identified.
the start of the systematic European colonization of the americas is typically dated to 1492, when a स्पेनी expedition headed by Christopher कोलंबस sailed लिये India to open trade but inadvertently खोजा the americas.
European conquest, large-scale exploration and colonization जल्द followed.
देखकर that यूरोपीय was preoccupied with many internal युद्धों और थी धीरे recovering इससे the many मौतों that the bubonic प्लेग caused, the rapid expansion at जिससे it grew in wealth और power was unforeseeable in the जल्दी 1400s.
the पहला expeditions occurred साथ the caribbean coasts on the आइलैंड्स of हिस्पानिओला, Puerto रीको and Cuba, and after 1500 extended into the इंटीरियर्स of दोनो North और दक्षिण अमेरिका.
In 1497, sailing इससे the उत्तर on behalf of इंग्लैण्ड, John cabot landed on the उत्तर अमरीकी coast, और a year later, कोलंबस 's तीसरा voyage reached the दक्षिण अमरीकी coast.
फ़्रांस founded colonies in much of पूर्वी North अमेरिका, on a number of Caribbean आइलैंड्स, and in South अमेरिका.
Portugal colonized ब्राज़ील.
आखिरकार, the संपूर्ण Western Hemisphere came अंतर्गत the कंट्रोल of European सरकारें, अग्रणी to profound परिवर्तन to इसके landscape, जनसांख्यिकी, और संयंत्र and animal जीवन.
in the 19th सदी alone over 50 लाख लोगों left यूरोपीय for the americas.
the post-1492 era is known as the काल of the Columbian एक्सचेंज.
Keith रिचर्ड्स ( born 18 December 1943 ) is an अंग्रेज़ी संगीतकार, singer-songwriter और संस्थापक member of the अंग्रेज़ी चट्टान band the Rolling पत्थरों.
Rolling स्टोन पत्रिका कहा Richards had निर्मित `` rock 's महानतम single body of riffs '', रैंकिंग उसे 4th on इसके सूची of 100 best guitarists.
Fourteen गीतों Richards wrote साथ the Rolling पत्थरों ' सीसे vocalist Mick Jagger हैं listed among रोलिंग Stone magazine 's `` 500 महानतम गीतों of All समय ``.
Richards ' notoriety for अवैध drug उपयोग stems in भाग from several ड्रग busts during the late 1960s and 1970s and his candour regarding his व्यसन to और eventual abstinence इससे हेरोइन.
Testosterone is a स्टेरॉयड hormone इससे the androgen group और is मिला in स्तनधारियों, reptiles, पक्षियों, और अन्य vertebrates.
In mammals, टेस्टोस्टेरोन is primarily स्रावित in the अंडकोष of males और the अंडाशय of females, हालांकि small amounts हैं भी स्रावित by the अधिवृक्क glands.
It is the principal पुरूष sex hormone और an anabolic स्टेरॉयड.
In मेन, testosterone plays a कुंजी भूमिका in the विकास of पुरूष reproductive ऊतकों such as the testis और prostate as खूब as promoting द्वितीयक sexual विशेषताएँ ऐसे as increased muscle, अस्थि द्रव्यमान, and the विकास of body बाल.
in जोड, टेस्टोस्टेरोन is essential for health और well-being as well as the रोकथाम of ऑस्टियोपोरोसिस.
on औसत, in वयस्क human males, the प्लाज्मा विशेषज्ञता of टेस्टोस्टेरोन is परिचय 7–8 times as great as the विशेषज्ञता in वयस्क human females ' plasma, लकिन as the metabolic खपत of testosterone in males is greater, the रोज़ उत्पादन is about 20 times वृहद in men.
महिलाओं भी हैं अधिक संवेदनशील to the hormone.
Testosterone is observed in most vertebrates.
Fish make a थोड़ा अलग रूप पुकारा 11-ketotestosterone.
Its बंटवारा in कीट is ecdysone.
These सर्वव्यापी steroids सुझाएँ that sex hormones have an ancient विकासवादी इतिहास.
Cluster sampling is a sampling technique प्रयुक्त जब `` प्राकृतिक '' but relatively homogeneous groupings हैं evident in a सांख्यिकीय जनसांख्यिकी.
It is often used in marketing शोध.
In this तकनीक, the total जनसांख्यिकी is divided into these groups ( or clusters ) और a सरल यादृच्छिक sample of the groups is selected.
Then the जरूरी सूचना is collected from a simple random sample of the elements भीतर each selected समूह.
This may be done for every element in ये groups or a subsample of तत्व may be selected within each of these समूह.
a आम प्रेरणा for cluster sampling is to reduce the कुल number of interviews and लागत given the desired सटीकता.
assuming a fixed नमूना size, the तकनीक देता more सटीक परिणाम when सबसे of the variation in the population is भीतर the groups, नहीं between them.
Jamestown is a town in guilford County, North कैरोलिना, United राज्य, and is a उपनगरीय of the आसपास शहरों of Greensboro and High पाइंट.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 3,382 at the 2010 census.
नताली Portman ( born Natalie hershlag ; ; June 9, 1981 ) is an अभिनेत्री and मॉडल with डुअल अमरीकी और Israeli citizenship.
उसके first role was as an orphan taken in by a हिटमैन in the 1994 कार्रवाई film, लकिन मुख्यधारा success came जब she was cast as padmé amidala in the Star युद्धों prequel त्रयी ( released in 1999, 2002 and 2005 ).
In 1999, वो enrolled at Harvard University to study मनोविज्ञान जबकि स्टिल working as an actress.
वो completed उसके स्नातक 's degree in 2003.
in 2001, पोर्टमैन opened in New यॉर्क नगर 's पब्लिक थिएटर उत्पादन of Anton चेखव 's The Seagull.
in 2005, पोर्टमैन received a नामांकन for the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये Best Supporting अभिनेत्री और won the सुनहरी ग्लोब Award for Best supporting अभिनेत्री - गति Picture for the नाटक Closer.
She won a Constellation Award लिये बेहतरीन Female Performance और a Saturn Award for Best अभिनेत्री लिये उसके starring role in V for Vendetta ( 2006 ).
She निभाई leading भूमिकाएँ in the historical dramas गोया 's भूत ( 2006 ) and The अन्य Boleyn Girl ( 2008 ).
In May 2008, she served as the youngest member of the 61st सालाना Cannes फिल्मी Festival jury.
पोर्टमैन 's directorial debut, Eve, opened the 65th Venice International फिल्मी Festival 's shorts प्रतियोगिता in 2008.
Portman निर्देशित a segment of the collective film नई यॉर्क, i प्रेम तुम.
in 2011, Portman जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार, the Golden ग्लोब Award, the bafta पुरस्कार, the स्क्रीन Actors Guild पुरस्कार, और the Independent Spirit पुरस्कार for उसके lead performance as नीना sayers in ब्लैक Swan.
तांबे is a रासायनिक तत्व with the प्रतीक cu ( इससे ) and atomic number 29.
it is a ductile metal with very ऊँची thermal and विद्युत conductivity.
pure तांबे is soft और malleable ; a freshly exposed surface रै a reddish-orange रंग.
it is used as a कंडक्टर of heat and विद्युत, a भवन सामग्री, and a constituent of various metal alloys.
The मेटल और its alloys have been used लिये हज़ारों of years.
in the Roman era, copper थी principally mined on साइप्रस, hence the origin of the नाम of the मेटल as сyprium ( मेटल of Cyprus ), later shortened to сuprum.
Its यौगिकों are commonly encountered as copper ( ii ) लवण, जिससे often impart ब्लू or ग्रीन colors to minerals such as azurite और turquoise and have महरूम widely प्रयुक्त historically as pigments.
Architectural structures built with तांबे corrode to दे ग्रीन verdigris ( or patina ).
सजावटी art prominently सुविधाएँ copper, both by itself and as भाग of pigments.
तांबे is अनिवार्य to all जीना जीवों as a trace dietary खनिज क्युकी it is a key constituent of the respiratory एंजाइम complex cytochrome c oxidase.
in molluscs and crustacea copper is a constituent of the blood pigment hemocyanin, जिससे is replaced by the iron-complexed हीमोग्लोबिन in मछली और अन्य vertebrates.
the main areas जहाँ copper is मिला in vertebrates are जिगर, muscle और bone.
in sufficient concentration, तांबे यौगिकों हैं जहरीला to उच्चतर जीवों and are used as bacteriostatic substances, fungicides, and wood preservatives.
The major professional sports leagues, or बस प्रमुख लीग, in the United States and Canada हैं the highest professional प्रतियोगिताओं of टोली sports in the two countries.
हालांकि व्यक्तिगत खेल ऐसे as golf, टेनिस, और auto racing are also very popular, the पद is usually limited to team sports.
The पद `` major लीग '' was पहला प्रयुक्त in 1921 in सन्दर्भ to Major League Baseball ( एमएलबी ), the top level of पेशेवर American baseball.
Today, the major northern उत्तर America पेशेवर team खेल लीग are प्रमुख लीग Baseball ( एमएलबी ), the National Basketball Association ( एनबीए ), the नेशनल Football League ( एनएफएल ), and the नेशनल Hockey League ( एनएचएल ).
अन्य notable leagues शामिल प्रमुख लीग Soccer ( MLS ), the कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल League ( cfl ), the Arena Football League, प्रमुख League lacrosse, the National lacrosse League and the Women 's National बास्केट संघ.
the NFL, MLB, NBA, and NHL हैं commonly referred to as the Big चार.
Each of ये is the richest पेशेवर club competition in इसके खेल worldwide.
The best players can become cultural icons in दोनो देशों and elsewhere in the संसार, because the leagues आनंद a significant प्लेस in popular culture in the US और कनाडा.
The एनएफएल has 32 teams, और the others have 30 each.
the विशाल majority of major लीग टीमों हैं concentrated in the most populous metropolitan क्षेत्रों of the United States.
Baseball, football, हॉकी, और सॉकर have था पेशेवर लीग लिये over 100 सालो ; early leagues such as the National Association, Ohio लीग, and National Hockey संघ formed the basis of the modern एमएलबी, एनएफएल and एनएचएल क्रमशः.
सॉकर थी first professionalized in 1894, but लीग suffered greatly इससे lack of स्थिरता and seldom lasted अधिक than a decade.
Soccer 's greatest सफलताओं were in the रूप of the अमरीकी Soccer लीग ( 1921-1933 ), the असली North अमरीकी Soccer League ( 1968-1984 ), the नेशनल पेशेवर Soccer League ( 1984-2001 ) और, फिलहाल, Major लीग सॉकर ( 1996-present ).
बास्केट is a अपेक्षाकृत नई development ; the एनबीए विकसित इससे the नेशनल बास्केट League and इसके splinter group the Basketball संघ of America, taking on इसके current form in 1949.
प्रत्येक major league averages 15,000 fans in attendance प्रति game or higher as of 2011.
Meridian Altitude is an खगोलीय नेविगेशन method of calculating an निरीक्षक 's अक्षांश.
अर्जित value प्रबन्धन ( EVM ), or अर्जित मान project/performance management ( EVPM ) is a प्रोजेक्ट प्रबन्धन technique for measuring project performance और progress in an उद्देश्य manner.
क्युकी evm has the क्षमता to combine माप of :
scope
schedule
and cost,
in a सिंगल integrated प्रणाली, अर्जित मान Management is able to provide सटीक forecasts of project प्रदर्शन समस्याएं, which is an important योगदान for प्रोजेक्ट प्रबन्धन.
जल्दी evm शोध showed कि the areas of नियोजन और कंट्रोल हैं significantly impacted by इसके उपयोग ; और similarly, using the methodology improves दोनो पैमाना परिभाषा as well as the analysis of overall प्रोजेक्ट प्रदर्शन.
More recent research अध्ययन have दिखाया कि the सिद्धान्त of evm हैं positive predictors of project success.
Popularity of EVM रै grown significantly in हाल सालो beyond सरकारी contracting, in which सेक्टर its importance continues to वृद्धि ( e.g., हाल new dfar rules ), in भाग क्युकी EVM can also सतह in और help substantiate contract disputes.
Colorful वसन्त गार्डन पुष्प
Spring is one of the चार conventional temperate सीज़न, following शीत और preceding गर्मियाँ.
वहीँ हैं विभिन्न technical परिभाषाएं of spring, लकिन local usage of the पद varies according to local climate, संस्कृतियों and customs.
जब it is spring in the northern गोलार्ध, it will be पतझड़ in the दक्षिणी hemisphere.
at the spring equinox, days are close to 12 घंटों long साथ दिन length increasing as the season progresses.
Spring and `` springtime '' refer to the season, और also to ideas of rebirth, कायाकल्प, नवीकरण, क़यामत, और regrowth, with festivals such as कार्निवल, ईस्टर and Holi होने celebrated at this समय.
jamestown थी a settlement in the उपनिवेश of Virginia, the पहला permanent अंग्रेज़ी settlement in the americas.
Established by the Virginia कम्पनी of London as `` जेम्स फोर्ट '' on may 14, 1607 ( O.S., May 24, 1607 N.S. ), it followed अनेक earlier failed कोशिशें, including the खोया उपनिवेश of Roanoke.
jamestown परोसा as the पूंजी of the colony for 83 सालो, इससे 1616 जबतक 1699.
The उपनिवेश was स्तिथ भीतर the territory of a political एंटिटी ज्ञात as tsenacommacah, the state of the powhatan Confederacy, साथ around 14,000 देशी inhabitants, and specifically was in भाग of the subdivision known as the paspahegh जनजाति.
The natives initially सत्कार the colonists with नाचना, feasting and तम्बाकू ceremonies, और वे provided निर्णायक provisions and support लिये the survival of the colonists, who यहूद नहीं agriculturally inclined, हालांकि relations साथ the newcomers भी soured fairly जल्दी on, leading to the total annihilation of the Paspahegh in warfare within 3 years.
भीतर a साल of Jamestown 's founding, the Virginia कम्पनी brought पॉलिश और डच colonists to help improve the उपनिवेश.
in 1619, the पहला प्रलेखित Africans were brought to Jamestown, हालांकि the modern धारणा of slavery in the भविष्य United राज्य did नहीं शुरू in Virginia until 1660.
When the उपनिवेश थी subdivided into the असली eight shires of Virginia in 1634, the कस्बा became स्तिथ in the eponymous जेम्स City Shire.
the London Company 's दूसरी settlement, बरमूडा, दावा to be the साईट of the oldest कस्बा in the अंग्रेज़ी नई World, as st. जार्ज 's, Bermuda was officially established ( as New लंदन ) in 1612, whereas James फोर्ट, in Virginia, was नहीं to be परिवर्तित into James towne until 1619, and further किया नहीं survive into the present दिन.
in 1699, the capital was relocated इससे Jamestown to what is today Williamsburg, after which Jamestown ceased to मौजूद as a settlement, existing today तभी as an archaeological साईट.
Today, Jamestown is एक of तीन स्थितियाँ comprising the Historic Triangle of औपनिवेशिक वर्जिनिया, साथ साथ Williamsburg and yorktown, with दो primary heritage साइट.
ऐतिहासिक Jamestowne, the archaeological साईट on jamestown Island, is a cooperative प्रयत्न by Jamestown National ऐतिहासिक साईट ( part of औपनिवेशिक National ऐतिहासिक Park ), और Preservation Virginia.
The jamestown उपनिवेश, a living इतिहास interpretive साईट, is संचालित by the jamestown yorktown न्यास in संयोजन साथ the राष्ट्रमंडल of वर्जिनिया.
जेम्स Christopher फ्रे ( born सितंबर 12, 1969 ) is an अमरीकी लेखक.
His books A Million Little Pieces ( 2003 ) और My dost लियोनार्ड ( 2005 ), as खूब as Bright Shiny morning ( 2008 ), यहूद bestsellers.
he थी the विषय of a scandal when जांचकर्ताओं discovered that prison समय and the extent of निश्चित चोटों were अतिरंजित in a Million छोटी टुकड़े, a purportedly autobiographical खाता of the लेखक 's संघर्ष साथ addiction.
Deere & Company, सबसे commonly known by its name John deere, is an अमरीकी corporation आधारित in moline, Illinois, and one of the largest manufacturers of agricultural machinery in the संसार.
in 2012, it थी सूचीबद्ध as 97th in the सौभाग्य 500 America 's ranking and 190th in the Fortune 500 वैश्विक रैंकिंग.
Deere और कम्पनी agricultural products, sold अंतर्गत the John deere नाम, शामिल tractors, combine harvesters, cotton harvesters, balers, planters / seeders, sprayers, और utvs.
the कम्पनी is also a निर्माता of construction equipment और forestry equipment, as well as a प्रदायक of डीज़ल engines और drivetrains ( axles, ट्रांसमिशन, gearboxes ) प्रयुक्त in heavy उपकरण.
additionally, John Deere manufactures equipment used in lawn, grounds, और turf परवाह, such as walk-behind lawn mowers, zero-turn लॉन mowers, lawn tractors, और snowthrowers.
to support the कोर businesses, जॉन Deere भी provides financial सेवाएं and other related क्रियाएँ.
the company 's स्लोगन is `` nothing रनों जैसे a Deere '' and has a picture of a leaping हिरण as a लोगो, a शब्द खेल pun on `` nothing runs जैसे a हिरण ''.
Carl westby coined the phrase `` nothing रनों Like a Deere '' for a marketing अभियान to बेचें snowmobiles.
the कम्पनी 's products हैं also identifiable by इसके distinctive shade of ग्रीन paint, usually augmented by पीला trim.
The United States ten-dollar bill ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of United राज्य करेंसी.
The first U.S. सचिव of the राजकोष ( 1789–95 ), सिकंदर हैमिल्टन, is फिलहाल प्रदर्शित on the obverse of the विधेयक, जबकि the u.S. Treasury भवन is featured on the रिवर्स.
( हैमिल्टन is one of two non-presidents featured on currently issued u.S. bills.
The other is बेंजामिन Franklin, on the $ 100 bill.
Hamilton is एक of तभी four लोगों प्रदर्शित on U.S. paper currency ( 1861 to the present ) who was नहीं born in the महाद्वीपीय संयुक्त States, as he थी इससे the West इंडीज.
the others are : Albert gallatin, स्विट्ज़रलैंड ( $ 500 1862/63 विधिक Tender ) ; George Meade, स्पेन ( $ 1,000 1890/91 राजकोष Note ) ; और रॉबर्ट मॉरिस, England ( $ 1,000 1862/63 विधिक Tender ; $ 10 1878/80 चांदी प्रमाणपत्र ).
In addition, Kamehameha i, appears on the 2008 हवाई राज्य quarter. )
सब $ 10 bills जारी today are संघीय आरक्षित टीप.
The Bureau of Engraving and मुद्रण says the औसत life of a $ 10 विधेयक in circulation is 18 months पहले it is replaced due to पहनें.
Approximately 6 % of सब us banknotes मुद्रित in 2009 were $ 10 bills.
Ten dollar bills are वितरित by संघीय आरक्षित बैंको in yellow straps.
The source of the face on the $ 10 विधेयक is जॉन Trumbull ’s 1805 पोर्ट्रेट of हैमिल्टन that belongs to the पोर्ट्रेट collection of New York City Hall.
The $ 10 विधेयक is the only u.S. paper currency in परिसंचरण in which the पोर्ट्रेट faces to the left ( the $ 100,000 bill प्रदर्शित a पोर्ट्रेट of Woodrow विल्सन facing to the left, लकिन was used तभी for intra-government ट्रांजेक्शन ).
एंडी सैमुएल Griffith ( June 1, 1926 – July 3, 2012 ) was an American कर्ता, टेलीविज़न producer, Grammy पुरस्कार -winning southern-gospel singer, और writer.
He was a टोनी पुरस्कार nominee लिये two roles, और gained prominence in the अभिनीत भूमिका in निदेशक Elia कज़न 's फिल्मी A Face in the Crowd ( 1957 ) before he became better ज्ञात for his television roles, playing the सीसे वर्ण in the 1960–1968 हालात comedy The Andy ग्रिफ़िथ दिखाएँ और in the 1986–1995 legal नाटक Matlock.
Theresa पेनेलोप `` terri '' इरविन, ( née Raines ; born July 20, 1964 ) is an ऑस्ट्रेलियाई -based, अमरीकी -born naturalist, author, the widow of ऑस्ट्रेलियाई naturalist Steve Irwin और मालिक of Australia Zoo at Beerwah, क्वींसलैंड, ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
वो co-starred साथ उसके husband on The Crocodile Hunter, उनके unconventional टेलीविज़न प्रकृति वृत्तचित्र श्रेणी साथ with इसके spin-off series, Croc Files and The Crocodile Hunter Diaries.
She has lived in ऑस्ट्रेलिया चूंकि 1992, when वो married Steve Irwin.
andreas cellarius 's उदाहरण of the Copernican प्रणाली, इससे the harmonia Macrocosmica ( 1660 ).
Heliocentrism, or heliocentricism, is the astronomical model in जिससे the धरती और planets revolve around a relatively stationary सूर्य at the बीच of the सौर System.
the word आता from the Greek ( helios `` sun '' और kentron `` बीच '' ).
Historically, heliocentrism थी opposed to geocentrism, which placed the धरती at the center.
The notion that the Earth revolves around the सूर्य had महरूम proposed as जल्दी as the 3rd century BC by aristarchus of samos, but Aristarchus 's heliocentrism attracted little attention जबतक कोपरनिकस revived and elaborated it.
लुसियो Russo, however, argues कि इस is a भ्रामक छाप resulting from the loss of scientific works of the hellenistic Era.
Using अप्रत्यक्ष प्रमाण he argues that a heliocentric दृश्य थी expounded in Hipparchus 's work on गम्भीरता.
it was नहीं जबतक the 16th century that a fully predictive गणितीय मॉडल of a heliocentric प्रणाली was प्रस्तुत, by the पुनर्जागरण गणितज्ञ, astronomer, and कैथोलिक मौलवी Nicolaus कोपरनिकस of Poland, leading to the copernican Revolution.
In the following century, योहानेस कॅप्लर elaborated upon और विस्तारित this model to include elliptical orbits, और supporting observations बना using a telescope were प्रस्तुत by Galileo Galilei.
With the observations of विलियम Herschel, फ्रेडरिक bessel, और अन्य, खगोलशास्त्रियों एहसास that the सूर्य was नहीं the बीच of the universe और by the 1920s एडविन Hubble had shown कि it थी भाग of a आकाशगंगा ( the Milky रास्ता ) कि was only एक of many अरबों.
नोराह जोन्स ( born geetali Norah जोन्स Shankar ; कूच 30, 1979 ) is an American singer-songwriter, pianist, and actress.
She is the daughter of भारतीय sitar खिलाड़ी Ravi शंकर और Sue जोन्स.
वो is also Anoushka शंकर 's half-sister.
In 2002, वो शुभारम्भ her solo music करियर with the रिलीज of the commercially successful और critically acclaimed album Come Away साथ Me, a संलयन of देश music और पॉप साथ तत्व of जैज़ जिससे थी certified डायमंड एल्बम, selling over 26 million copies.
the रिकार्ड अर्जित जोन्स पाँच Grammy Awards, सहित the एल्बम of the Year, Record of the साल, और Best नई कलाकार.
उसके subsequent स्टुडियो एल्बम, feels जैसे घर, released in 2004, Not Too लेट, released in 2007, the same साल वो made her फिल्मी debut in My Blueberry Nights, and her 2009 release The Fall all gained प्लेटिनम status, selling over a million नक़ल और were generally खूब received by critics.
जोन्स ' पांचवां स्टुडियो album, Little Broken Hearts, was released on अप्रैल 27, 2012.
जोन्स has won नौ ग्रैमी पुरस्कार और was 60th on Billboard पत्रिका 's कलाकारों of the 2000–2009 दशक chart.
Throughout उसके career, Jones has won numerous awards and रै sold more than 50 million एल्बम विश्वव्यापी.
बिलबोर्ड नामित उसके the top jazz कलाकार of the 2000–2009 decade.
Not to be उलझन with आयाम of a शारीरिक quantity.
लिये other उपयोग, देखिए Dimension ( disambiguation ).
इससे left to right, the square, the cube, and the tesseract.
The वर्गाकार is bounded by 1-dimensional lines, the cube by 2-dimensional areas, and the tesseract by 3-dimensional आयतन.
a प्रक्षेप of the घन is दिए since it is viewed on a two-dimensional screen.
The same applies to the tesseract, जिससे additionally can तभी be shown as a projection even in three-dimensional space.
A diagram प्रर्दशित the first four spatial आयाम.
In physics और mathematics, the dimension of a स्पेस or ऑब्जेक्ट is informally defined as the minimum number of coordinates needed to बताएँ कोई point भीतर it.
Thus a line रै a dimension of one क्युकी only एक निर्देशांक is needed to specify a पाइंट on it ( लिये उदाहरण, the पाइंट at 5 on a number लकीर ).
a सतह ऐसे as a प्लेन or the surface of a cylinder or गोला has a dimension of two क्युकी दो निर्देशांक are needed to specify a point on it ( लिये उदाहरण, to locate a point on the सतह of a sphere you need दोनो इसके अक्षांश and its longitude ).
the अंदर of a घन, a cylinder or a गोला is three-dimensional क्युकी three coordinates are needed to locate a point भीतर ये spaces.
In शारीरिक terms, dimension refers to the constituent ढांचा of सब स्पेस ( आवाज़ ) और its स्थिति in time ( perceived as a अदिश आयाम साथ the t-axis ), as well as the spatial constitution of objects within—structures कि correlate with both particle and फ़ील्ड conceptions, interact according to relative properties of द्रव्यमान —and हैं fundamentally mathematical in वर्णन.
These, or other अक्ष, may be संदर्भित to uniquely पहचानो a पाइंट or structure in its attitude और relationship to अन्य objects and आवृत्ति.
Physical theories that चरितार्थ time, ऐसे as general आपेक्षिकता, हैं said to work in 4-dimensional `` spacetime ``, ( पारिभाषित as a मिन्कोवस्की स्पेस ).
Modern theories tend to be `` higher-dimensional '' सहित quantum फ़ील्ड and string theories.
The state-space of क्वांटम mechanics is an infinite-dimensional फलन स्पेस.
The अवधारणा of dimension is not प्रतिबंधित to physical objects.
high-dimensional स्पेसेस occur in mathematics और the sciences लिये many reasons, frequently as विन्यास spaces such as in लाग्रांजीय or हेमिल्टोनीय यांत्रिकी ; these हैं abstract spaces, independent of the physical स्पेस we सजीव in.
fontana ( ) is a city of 200,762 residents in सैन bernardino काउंटी, California.
Founded in 1913, it remained essentially rural until World War II, when entrepreneur हेनरी J. कैसर निर्मित a large steel मिल in the क्षेत्रफल.
It is now a क्षेत्रीय hub of the trucking उद्योग, with Interstate 10 और State रूट 210 transecting the नगर from east to वेस्ट, और Interstate 15 गुजर diagonally through its northwestern quadrant.
It is घर to the largest of the सैन Bernardino काउंटी system पुस्तकालयों, a renovated historic थिएटर, a municipal पार्क, और the स्वचालित क्लबों स्पीडवे on the साईट of the कैसर स्टील Mill.
fontana also hosts the Fontana Days Half मैराथन और 5K चलाएं.
इस race is the तीव्रतम half-marathon कोर्स in the संसार.
The U.S. 2012 Census reported कि fontana 's जनसांख्यिकी थी 200,762 in 2012, making it the second most populous नगर in सैन Bernardino county county and 14th in the राज्य.
cowboys स्टेडियम is a स्टेडियम with a retractable छत in आर्लिंगटन, Texas.
it serves as the home of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग 's Dallas Cowboys.
It replaced the partially covered Texas Stadium, जिससे खोली in 1971, और served as the Cowboys ' घर through the 2008 season.
it was completed on May 27, 2009.
the stadium seats 85,000, बनाना it the third largest stadium in the एनएफएल by seating capacity.
The अधिकतम capacity of the स्टेडियम, including standing रूम, is 105,000.
the Party Pass ( खोलें क्षेत्रों ) भाग हैं behind seats in each end मण्डल and on a series of छह elevated प्लेटफ़ॉर्म कनेक्ट by stairways.
it रै the संसार 's largest column-free interior and the fourth largest ऊँची definition video screen, जिससे hangs from 20 यार्ड line to 20 यार्ड line.
The facility can भी be used लिये a variety of अन्य क्रियाएँ outside of its main purpose ( professional football ) ऐसे as concerts, basketball खेल, मुक्केबाज़ी matches, कॉलेज football and ऊँची school football प्रतियोगिताओं, soccer matches, and motocross races.
कनाडाई इतिहासकारों until the 1980s tended to फ़ोकस on आर्थिक इतिहास, including श्रमिक इतिहास.
in भाग इस is क्युकी कनाडा has था far कम राजनैतिक or सैन्य conflicts than अन्य societies.
This was especially true in the पहला हाफ of the बीसवीं century जब आर्थिक इतिहास थी overwhelmingly प्रबल.
अनेक of the सबसे prominent English कनाडाई historians from this काल यहूद economic इतिहासकारों, such as हेरोल्ड Innis, Donald Creighton और आर्थर R. M. Lower
विद्वानों of Canadian history were वारिस to the परंपराओं कि विकसित in Europe and the संयुक्त राज्य, लकिन frameworks that worked खूब elsewhere प्रायः failed in कनाडा.
the heavily Marxist influenced आर्थिक history that dominates Europe रै छोटी relevance to सबसे of कनाडाई history.
a फ़ोकस on क्लास, urban क्षेत्रों, और उद्योग fails to पता कनाडा 's ग्रामीण and resource आधारित अर्थव्यवस्था.
Similarly, the monetarist स्कूल कि is प्रबल in the United States also रै been difficult to ट्रांसफ़र north of the border.
the पढ़ाई of आर्थिक इतिहास in Canada became highly केन्द्रित on आर्थिक geography, और for many सालो the dominant स्कूल of thought रै महरूम the स्टेपल्स लेख.
This school of विचार bases the पढ़ाई of the Canadian economy on the study of natural resources.
इस दृष्टिकोण has since also become प्रयुक्त outside of Canada in Australia और in many विकासशील राष्ट्र.
पहले the arrival of europeans, the पहला राष्ट्र of what होता become कनाडा had a large and vibrant trade network.
furs, tools, decorative वस्तुएं, and अन्य goods यहूद often transported हज़ारों of किलोमीटर, ज़्यादातर by canoe throughout the अनेक rivers और lakes of the region.
the early यूरोपीय history of the कनाडाई economy is usually पढ़ाई through the staples लेख जिससे argues the Canadian अर्थव्यवस्था developed through the शोषण of a series of staples that होता be exported to Europe.
carbon-14, 14c, or radiocarbon, is a रेडियोसक्रिय isotope of कार्बन with a nucleus containing 6 protons and 8 neutrons.
Its उपस्थिति in सशुल्क materials is the basis of the radiocarbon डेटिंग विधि pioneered by willard Libby और colleagues ( 1949 ) to तिथि पुरातत्व, geological and hydrogeological नमूने.
Carbon-14 was discovered on 27 फ़रवरी 1940, by मार्टिन Kamen and Sam Ruben at the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया विकिरण Laboratory in बर्कली, हालांकि इसके existence था महरूम सुझाया by Franz kurie in 1934.
वहीँ are three naturally occurring isotopes of कार्बन on धरती : 99 % of the carbon is carbon-12, 1 % is carbon-13, और carbon-14 occurs in trace amounts, i.e., बनाना up about 1 part प्रति खरब ( 0.0000000001 % ) of the कार्बन in the atmosphere.
The half-life of carbon-14 is 5,730±40 सालो.
Carbon-14 decays into nitrogen-14 through beta क्षय.
The प्राथमिक प्राकृतिक सोर्स of carbon-14 on धरती is लौकिक ray कार्रवाई upon नाइट्रोजन in the माहौल, और it is इसलिए a cosmogenic nuclide.
however, open-air nuclear testing between 1955–1980 contributed to इस pool.
the different isotopes of carbon do नहीं differ appreciably in उनके रासायनिक गुण.
इस is प्रयुक्त in chemical और biological research, in a तकनीक called carbon labeling : carbon-14 अणु can be प्रयुक्त to replace nonradioactive कार्बन, in अनुक्रम to trace रासायनिक and biochemical प्रतिक्रियाएँ involving कार्बन atoms from any given organic compound.
बिजली is a अत्यधिक दृश्य रूप of energy transfer
बिजली strikes are विद्युत discharges on a विशाल scale between the माहौल और an earth-bound object.
They mostly originate in thunderclouds and terminate on the मैदान, पुकारा Cloud to मैदान ( CG ) lightning.
However, they may भी be initiated इससे a very लम्बा grounded ऑब्जेक्ट and reach into the clouds.
Although `` a lightning स्ट्राइक '' is commonly used to describe all बिजली, it is बल्कि ग़लत and a misnomer, as only परिचय 25 % of सब बिजली कार्यक्रम विश्वव्यापी are CG, the विशाल बल्क of lightning कार्यक्रम हैं Intracloud ( ic ) or Cloud to Cloud ( cc ), जहाँ discharge तभी occurs high in the atmosphere.
The scientific नाम लिये the complete प्रक्रम of a single lightning event is a and it is a बहुत complex, अनेक stepped interaction, which is not completely समझा.
Most CG flashes तभी `` strike '' one शारीरिक स्थान, referred to as a termination.
The primary conducting channel, the bright coursing light तुम may देखिए और call a `` स्ट्राइक '', is only परिचय 1 इंच in diameter, although to our eyes it looks much larger.
They are मील long, upwards of tens of मील.
And the संपूर्ण फ्लैश, lasts only a few fractions of a दूसरी, most of which is not visible to इंसान आँखें.
थंडर is always उत्पादित by lightning.
Just like lightning, that deceives our eyes, usually looking larger or closer than it really is, the धरती 's माहौल and हमारी brain 's perception of the बाहर world, ultimately determines whether it is `` heard '' or not.
Lightning can नहीं happen in a वैक्यूम devoid of ions, nor can thunder occur बगैर अणुओं to हिलना.
थंडर is a शारीरिक absolute for every single flash of lightning.
contrary to लोकप्रिय belief, a बिजली स्ट्राइक itself is प्रायः नहीं responsible for multiple मौतों or injuries इससे a सिंगल event.
it would be नामुमकिन दिए the प्राकृतिक tendencies of a फ्लैश, unless people or पशु यहूद stacked on top of each other, or वे यहूद somehow arranged vertically और भाग of the फ्लैश channel.
When बिजली ignites an available fuel source और an विस्फोट occurs, it is the shock wave or fire causing the injuries, not the स्ट्राइक itself.
Ground Currents, also पुकारा कदम संभावित, of an earth termination is कया truly causes सबसे injuries or मौत to humans and animals.
The near instantaneous rush of सतह charges, induced by the ओवरहेड thundercloud itself, race to the strike पाइंट इससे सैंकड़ों to हज़ारों of फीट away during निर्वहन.
इस वर्तमान, caused दौरान प्रत्येक स्ट्रोक, takes the path of तनिक प्रतिरोध, which may be आयन rich इंसान or animal टाँगे, over poorly conducting धरती.
इस is क्यों it is बेहतरीन to crouch, with फीट बंद साथ, if कभी caught in the खोलें during a अंधड़.
दुर्भाग्यवश, most रिपोर्ट्स do not चित्रण a भेद between the रियल कारण of injury or मौत, be it the स्ट्राइक itself, a resulting विस्फोट or आग, or प्रायः responsible step potential.
Peter F. kilmartin ( born 1962 ) is the current attorney सामान्य of rhode द्वीप.
kilmartin is भी a retired police कप्तान और a पूर्व सदस्य of the Rhode द्वीप हाउस of Representatives.
a couple following their marriage in the manti Utah Temple.
Sealing is an अध्यादेश ( अनुष्ठान ) performed in Latter Day Saints मंदिरों by a व्यक्ति पकड़कर the sealing प्राधिकार.
The purpose of this अध्यादेश is to मुहर परिचित संबंध, बनाना possible the existence of परिवार relationships throughout eternity.
LDS teachings प्लेस ग्रेट महत्व on the specific authority जरूरी to perform these sealings.
Church doctrine सिखाती कि इस प्राधिकार, called the priesthood, corresponds to कि दिए to Saint पीटर in.
Sealings हैं typically performed as विवाह or as sealing of children to अभिभावक.
They were performed prior to the death of जोसेफ स्मिथ, jr. ( the main founder of the latter Day Saint movement ), और हैं फिलहाल performed in the गिरिजाघर of Jesus मसीह of latter-day Saints.
हालांकि some other denominations, ऐसे as the Community of Christ, view sealing as an artifact of Smith 's practice of बहुवचन विवाह, कुछ do स्टिल perform them.
The 2000s, pronounced `` two हज़ारों '', थी a दशक कि began on January 1, 2000, और ended on December 31, 2009.
वैश्वीकरण, which था accelerated बाद the early 1990s पतन of communism, जारी to be a force in the 2000s.
the growth of the Internet थी one of the प्रधान contributors to वैश्वीकरण दौरान the decade, making it संभावित लिये people to interact साथ अन्य people, express ideas, introduce अन्य to अलग cultures और पृष्ठभूमि, use goods and सेवाएं, sell and buy online, शोध and learn परिचय बाते, along with experiencing the world without having to leave घर.
The संस्थानों, linkages and technologies कि उभरा or were redefined earlier would subsequently in इस decade लाभ many countries, in particular China and इण्डिया.
However, in अन्य भाग of the संसार such प्रगति विफल to address ongoing struggles with modernity, सबसे notably characterized by the rise of al-qaeda and अन्य Islamist समूह.
The सितंबर 11 attacks in 2001 led to the संयुक्त राज्य, संयुक्त किंगडम, Spain, Canada and other राष्ट्र आक्रमणकारी Afghanistan, as खूब as implementing various anti-terrorist measures at home और abroad in कया थी known as the युद्ध on Terror.
The European संघ saw further संयोजन and expansion throughout much of Europe.
The economic विकास of the 2000s था considerable environmental consequences, raised माँग for घटाते उर्जा resources, और was still दिखाया to be vulnerable as demonstrated दौरान the वैश्विक Financial संकट of the late 2000s.
The gunfight at the O.K. Corral was a gunfight कि took प्लेस at about 3:00 p.m. on बुधवार, अक्तूबर 26, 1881, in tombstone, Arizona territory, and is generally regarded as the most प्रसिद्ध gunfight in the history of the American Old West.
the gunfight, believed to have lasted तभी about thirty seconds, थी लड़ा between the outlaw cowboys Billy Claiborne, आइक और बिली clanton, और Tom and फ़्रैंक mclaury, and the opposing कस्बा मार्शल Virgil Earp और his भाइयो सहायक कस्बा Marshal Morgan और temporary lawman व्याट, aided by दस्तावेज़ Holliday designated as a temporary मार्शल by Virgil.
Ike Clanton and Billy Claiborne भागा from the fight unharmed, लकिन Ike 's brother बिली Clanton थी killed, along साथ दोनो mclaurys.
Lawmen Virgil और Morgan earp और दस्तावेज़ Holliday were wounded.
तभी व्याट earp came through the लड़ो unharmed.
The लड़ो रै come to represent a time in अमरीकी इतिहास जब the frontier थी खोलें दायरा लिये outlaws opposed by विधि प्रवर्तन कि was spread thin over vast territories, leaving कुछ areas unprotected.
The gunfight थी not well known to the अमरीकी public जबतक 1931 when लेखक Stuart झील published कया has since been संकल्पित to be a largely fictionalized biography, Wyatt Earp : frontier मार्शल, दो years बाद Earp 's death.
झील retold उसके story in a 1946 book that निदेशक जॉन Ford विकसित into the फिल्म my darling clementine.
बाद the फिल्म Gunfight at the O.K. Corral थी released in 1957, the shootout आए to be known by that name.
चूंकि then, the विरोध has been portrayed with varying डिग्री of सटीकता in numerous पश्चिमी films and books.
despite इसके नाम, the gunfight actually occurred in a narrow lot six doors west of the rear प्रवेश to the o.k. Corral on fremont गली, and also in the street.
The दो opposing parties यहूद initially तभी about अलावा.
About तीस गोलियाँ यहूद fired in thirty seconds.
Ike Clanton दायर murder आरोप against the earps and Doc Holliday but वे यहूद आखिरकार exonerated by a लोकल judge after a 30-day preliminary सुनना और then again by a लोकल ग्रैंड जूरी.
On दिसम्बर 28, 1881, Virgil Earp was maimed in an हत्या attempt by the outlaw cowboys, and on March 18, 1882, वे assassinated Morgan earp.
The suspects furnished solid alibis, और newly appointed डिप्टी U.S. मार्शल व्याट earp took matters into उसके अपना hands दौरान the Earp वेंडेट्टा सवारी, ironically धड़ा by काउंटी Sheriff Johnny behan with वारंट लिये the Earp 's गिरफ़्तार.
HDMI ( high-definition Multimedia इंटरफ़ेस ) is a compact audio/video इंटरफ़ेस लिये transferring uncompressed वीडियो आंकड़ा और compressed/uncompressed digital audio data from a HDMI-compliant device ( `` the सोर्स device '' ) to a compatible computer monitor, video प्रोजेक्टर, डिजिटल television, or डिजिटल audio device.
hdmi is a डिजिटल replacement लिये मौजूदा analog video standards.
वहीँ are a क्रमांक of hdmi-standard केबल कनेक्टर्स उपलब्धियाँ, प्रत्येक of which can be प्रयुक्त लिये any uncompressed TV or pc video format, सहित मानक, उन्नत, high definition, और 3d वीडियो signals ; up to 8 channels of compressed or uncompressed digital audio ; a CEC ( Consumer इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स कंट्रोल ) connection ; and an ईथरनेट data कनेक्शन.
hdmi implements the eia/cea-861 मानकों, which define video स्वरुप and waveforms, हस्तांतरण of compressed, uncompressed, and LPCM ऑडियो, auxiliary आंकड़ा, and implementations of the VESA edid.
the CEC allows HDMI devices to कंट्रोल प्रत्येक other जब necessary and allows the उपयोक्ता to operate अनेक डिवाइस साथ one रिमोट control हैंडसेट.
Because HDMI is electrically संगत साथ the CEA-861 signals used by digital visual इंटरफ़ेस ( dvi ), no सिग्नल conversion is जरुरी, nor is वहीँ a loss of वीडियो quality when a DVI-to-HDMI एडाप्टर is used.
As an uncompressed CEA-861 कनेक्शन, HDMI is स्वतंत्र of the विभिन्न डिजिटल television मानकों used by व्यक्तिगत devices, such as ATSC and DVB, as ये are encapsulations of संपीडित एमपीईजी वीडियो streams ( which can be decoded और output as an uncompressed वीडियो स्ट्रीम on HDMI ).
Production of उपभोक्ता HDMI उत्पाद started in लेट 2003.
In Europe either DVI-HDCP or HDMI is included in the hd ready in-store labeling specification for tv sets लिये HDTV, formulated by eicta with ses Astra in 2005.
hdmi began to appear on consumer hdtv camcorders और डिजिटल still cameras in 2006.
As of January 8, 2013, which is ten years after the रिलीज of the first HDMI specification, over 3 अरब hdmi डिवाइस have shipped since the launch of the hdmi मानक.
ब्री Van de Kamp ( née मेसन ; भी ज्ञात in the series as ब्री होज and ब्री Weston ) is a fictional character और one of the four protagonists on the एबीसी television series हताश Housewives.
She is निभाई by अभिनेत्री Marcia Cross, जो has प्राप्त अनेक awards और nominations for her portrayal, including an Emmy पुरस्कार nomination, तीन सुनहरी Globe Award nominations, and two स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड पुरस्कार.
Cross 's portrayal of Bree has been widely praised by critics and प्रशंसक.
Cross originally auditioned for the role of Mary ऐलिस Young, but श्रेणी निर्माता मार्क Cherry thought वो थी बेहतर suited लिये the भूमिका of ब्री.
Dana delany, जो आखिरकार थी cast as Katherine mayfair, was originally chosen for the role लकिन turned it bas, saying it थी too similar to उसके भूमिका in Pasadena.
ब्री 's प्रमुख struggle throughout the series has been उसके attempts to maintain a पूर्ण life despite various obstacles such as widowhood, तलाक, और alcoholism hindering her.
वो has महरूम शादीशुदा three times ; to Rex Van de kamp ( स्टीवन Culp ), orson होज ( Kyle MacLachlan ) और ट्रिप Weston ( Scott bakula ).
See भी the Town of Algoma in Winnebago County, विस्कॉन्सिन.
See भी algoma ( बहुविकल्पी ).
Algoma is a नगर in kewaunee County in the U.S. राज्य of विस्कॉन्सिन.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 3,167 at the 2010 census.
algoma is भाग of the ग्रीन खाड़ी महानगर Statistical क्षेत्रफल.
The Hangover Part ii is a 2011 अमरीकी कॉमेडी film उत्पादित by Legendary तस्वीरें और distributed by warner भाईs. Pictures.
It is the sequel to 2009 's the hangover and the second film in the hangover मताधिकार.
टॉड Phillips directed the film in जोड to co-authoring the script with Craig mazin, and Scot आर्मस्ट्रांग.
The फिल्मी सितारों ब्राडली कूपर, Ed Helms, Zach galifianakis, केन Jeong, Jeffrey Tambor, जस्टिन bartha and Paul giamatti.
the Hangover Part II tells the स्टोरी of Phil, Stu, एलन, और डग as वे travel to थाईलैंड for stu 's विवाह.
बाद the bachelor party in लास Vegas, stu takes no chances और opts लिये a safe, subdued pre-wedding brunch.
However, things do नहीं go as planned, resulting in another ख़राब hangover साथ no memories of the पिछला रात्रि.
विकास of the hangover भाग ii began in April 2009, दो महीने before the Hangover थी released.
The principal अभिनेताओं were cast in March 2010 to reprise their roles इससे the पहला film.
Production began in अक्तूबर 2010, in ओंटारियो, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, before moving on स्थान in थाईलैंड.
The फिल्मी थी released on may 26, 2011 and, despite receiving mostly ऋणात्मक reviews from critics, it became the highest-grossing r-rated कॉमेडी दौरान इसके नाट्य चलाएं.
A third फिल्मी is set लिये on May 24, 2013.
Young man among गुलाब, portrait miniature by निकोलस Hilliard, 1588, V & a.
believed to be the Earl of एसेक्स
The Ditchley पोर्ट्रेट of एलिज़ाबेथ i by the foreign मार्कस Gheeraerts the younger, c.1592
The English पुनर्जागरण was a सांस्कृतिक and artistic गति in इंग्लैण्ड dating from the late 15th and early 16th centuries to the जल्दी 17th century.
It is संबद्ध साथ the pan-european पुनर्जागरण that is प्रायः regarded as beginning in इटली in the लेट 14th सदी.
Like most of उत्तरी Europe, इंग्लैण्ड देखी little of ये developments जबतक more than a century बाद.
The beginning of the अंग्रेज़ी Renaissance is often taken, as a convenience, to be 1485, when the Battle of Bosworth Field ended the युद्धों of the Roses and उदघाटन the Tudor राजवंश.
पुनर्जागरण style और ideas, however, were slow in penetrating इंग्लैण्ड, and the Elizabethan era in the second हाफ of the 16th century is usually regarded as the height of the English पुनर्जागरण.
एलिज़ाबेथ Ann Bloomer Warren `` Betty '' घाट ( April 8, 1918 – जुलाई 8, 2011 ), was First महिला of the United States इससे 1974 to 1977 during the प्रेसिडेंसी of her husband जेराल्ड घाट.
as पहला Lady, she was क्रियाशील in social policy और created precedents as a politically active presidential wife.
Throughout उसके husband 's पद in office, she maintained high स्वीकृति ratings despite विपक्ष from कुछ रूढ़िवादी republicans जो objected to her अधिक मॉडरेट और liberal स्थितियाँ on सोशल issues.
Ford थी विख्यात for raising breast कर्कट जागरूकता following उसके 1974 mastectomy and was a passionate supporter of, and activist for, the Equal Rights amendment ( era ).
Pro-choice on abortion और a नेता in the Women 's गति, वो gained कीर्ति as one of the most निष्कपट पहला ladies in इतिहास, commenting on प्रत्येक hot-button issue of the time, including feminism, equal अदा, the era, sex, दवाएँ, abortion, और गन कंट्रोल.
She also उठाया awareness of addiction when वो घोषित उसके long-running battle with alcoholism in the 1970s.
following उसके श्वेत हाउस years, she जारी to lobby लिये the era and remained क्रियाशील in the feminist गति.
She was the founder, and परोसा as the पहला chair of the board of directors, of the बेट्टी घाट बीच for substance abuse and व्यसन and is a प्राप्तकर्ता of the Congressional सुनहरा पदक ( co-presentation with उसके husband, जेराल्ड R. घाट, अक्तूबर 21, 1998 ) and the Presidential Medal of स्वतंत्रता ( अलोन, प्रस्तुत 1991, by George H. W. Bush ).
Platelet endothelial कोशिका adhesion अणु ( PECAM-1 ) भी known as क्लस्टर of differentiation 31 ( CD31 ) is a protein that in human is एनकोडेड by the pecam1 जीन मिला on chromosome 17.
pecam-1 plays a key role in निकालना aged neutrophils from the देह.
जेसिका Rafalowski, मिस Florida USA 2008
जेन्ना एडवर्ड्स, मिस फ्लोरिडा यूएसए 2007
मेलिसा Witek, मिस फ्लोरिडा यूएसए 2005
क्रिस्टन Berset, मिस Florida USA 2004
The Miss Florida USA competition is the pageant that selects the प्रतिनिधि for the state फ्लोरिडा in the Miss USA pageant.
जबकि Florida रै महरूम कामयाब in शर्तें of runners-up, finalists and semi-finalists, the राज्य रै never जीती the मिस USA pageant, although चेरिल patton became मिस USA after Sylvia Hitchcock won Miss Universe.
Florida 's best परिणाम were during the mid-1960s to mid-1970s.
उनके सबसे recent फाइनलिस्ट थी lissette Garcia who placed in the शीर्ष 16 in 2011.
Two पूर्व Miss Florida Teen USA titleholders have जीती this प्रतियोगिता, and तीन titleholders have also competed at Miss America.
The current titleholder is Michelle Aguirre of hialeah.
anglo-saxon इंग्लैण्ड refers to the काल of the इतिहास of the भाग of ब्रिटेन that became known as इंग्लैण्ड, स्थायी इससे the end of रोमन occupation and establishment of anglo-saxon kingdoms in the 5th सदी जबतक the नॉर्मन conquest of इंग्लैण्ड in 1066 by विलियम the Conqueror.
anglo-saxon is a general पद referring to the Germanic peoples जो आए to ब्रिटेन दौरान the 5th and 6th centuries, including कोण, saxons, frisii, and jutes.
The पद भी refers to the भाषा बोला at the time in इंग्लैण्ड, which is अभी पुकारा बूढ़ा English, and to the संस्कृति of the era, which has long attracted लोकप्रिय and scholarly attention.
जबतक the 9th सदी Anglo-Saxon England थी dominated by the Heptarchy, the kingdoms of नॉर्थम्ब्रिया, mercia, ईस्ट Anglia, Essex, Kent, ससेक्स, and Wessex.
in शर्तें of धर्म the kingdoms followed anglo-saxon paganism दौरान the जल्दी period, लकिन converted to christianity दौरान the 7th century.
Paganism had a फाइनल stronghold in a काल of mercian आधिपत्य during the 640s, समाप्ति with the मौत of Penda of mercia in 655.
Facing the threat of Viking invasions, the House of wessex became dominant दौरान the 9th सदी, under the नियम of Alfred the ग्रेट.
During the 10th सदी, the व्यक्तिगत kingdoms एकीकृत under the नियम of wessex into the किंगडम of इंग्लैण्ड, जिससे stood opposed to the Danelaw, the viking kingdoms स्थापित इससे the 9th सदी in the उत्तर and east of इंग्लैण्ड.
The Kingdom of इंग्लैण्ड गिरी in the viking invasion from डेनमार्क in 1013 और was ruled by the हाउस of डेनमार्क जबतक 1042, जब the Anglo-Saxon House of Wessex थी लौटी.
The पिछला anglo-saxon king, हेरोल्ड Godwinson, was मारे in 1066 at the Battle of हास्टिंग्स.
lighting a परंपरागत रेड ईंटों जॉन रॉस Jr kiln
Smoked salmon is a तैयारी of सामन, typically a fillet that has been cured और hot or cold smoked.
Due to its मध्यम high दाम, smoked सामन is माना a delicacy.
हालांकि the term lox is sometimes applied to smoked salmon, वे हैं अलग उत्पाद.
दृश्य of defibrillator electrode position and placement.
Defibrillation is a आम treatment लिये life-threatening cardiac dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, और pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic dose of विद्युत उर्जा to the प्रभावित दिल with a device called a defibrillator.
This depolarizes a नाजुक द्रव्यमान of the heart मांसपेशी, terminates the dysrhythmia, और allows सामान्य sinus rhythm to be reestablished by the body 's प्राकृतिक pacemaker, in the sinoatrial node of the दिल.
Defibrillators can be external, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the type of यंत्र used or needed.
कुछ बाह्य इकाई, ज्ञात as स्वचालित बाह्य defibrillators ( AEDs ), automate the diagnosis of treatable लय, अर्थ कि lay responders or bystanders are समर्थ to use उन्हें successfully with छोटी, or in some मामले no training at सब.
Gabrielle `` कोको '' bonheur Chanel ( August 19, 1883 – जनवरी 10, 1971 ) was a फ्रेंच fashion पंक्तियां और संस्थापक of the चैनल brand.
वो was the only fashion पंक्तियां to appear on समय पत्रिका 's list of the 100 most influential people of the 20th century.
साथ with Paul poiret, Chanel was credited साथ liberating women इससे the constraints of the `` corseted silhouette '' and popularizing the acceptance of a sportive, कैज़ुअल chic as the feminine मानक in the post- World War I era.
a prolific फ़ैशन creator, Chanel 's influence extended beyond couture कपडे.
Her डिज़ाइन aesthetic थी realized in आभूषण, handbags, and महक.
Her signature सैंट, Chanel no. 5, रै become an iconic उत्पाद.
Chanel was known लिये उसके lifelong determination, ambition और energy जिससे she applied to her पेशेवर और social जीवन.
She achieved both कामयाबी as a businesswoman and social prominence thanks to the connections वो made through her कार्य.
These शामिल अनेक कलाकारों और craftspeople to जिसको she became a patron.
however, Chanel 's highly प्रतिस्पर्धी, opportunistic व्यक्तित्व led her to मेक questionable जीवन choices which have उत्पन्न विवाद around उसके प्रतिष्ठा, particularly her आचरण दौरान the German occupation of फ़्रांस in World युद्ध II.
अलाइड Mills flour मिल on the banks of the मैनचेस्टर Ship कनाल
A gristmill ( भी : grist mill, मकई mill or आटा mill ) grinds grain into आटा.
the पद can refer to both the पीस यांत्रिकी और the building that holds it.
Romania ( ; dated spellings Roumania and Rumania ; ) is a country स्तिथ at the intersection of सेंट्रल and Southeastern यूरोपीय, bordering on the Black Sea.
रोमानिया साझा a border साथ हंगेरियाई and Serbia to the west, Ukraine and Moldova to the पूर्वोत्तर and ईस्ट, and Bulgaria to the दक्षिण.
At, रोमानिया is the आठवीं largest country of the European संघ by क्षेत्रफल, और has the सातवाँ largest जनसांख्यिकी of the यूरोपीय Union with more than 19 लाख people.
इसके capital और biggest नगर is बुखारेस्ट, the 11th largest नगर in the EU.
the संयुक्त Principalities emerged when the territories of moldavia और Wallachia were united under Prince सिकंदर ioan cuza in 1859.
In 1866 Prince Karl of hohenzollern-sigmaringen थी called to the throne as the Ruling Prince of the रोमानियाई principate और in 1881 he was आखिरकार पहनाया as किंग Carol i the first monarch of the Kingdom of Romania.
Independence इससे the Ottoman साम्राज्य was declared on 9 may 1877, और थी internationally पहचाना the following साल.
At the समाप्त of संसार युद्ध i, Transylvania, bukovina and Bessarabia united साथ the किंगडम of रोमानिया.
World युद्ध ii दिया cause to the वृद्धि of a सैन्य dictatorship in Romania under फासिस्ट General आयन Antonescu, जो chose to लड़ो on the पक्ष of the Axis powers इससे 1941 to 1944.
After उसके removal, Romania switched पहलू in 1944 and joined the allies.
by the समाप्त of the war, कुछ formerly Romanian northeastern territories were occupied by the सोवियत Union, with Red Army units stationed on रोमानियाई मृदा.
In 1947 Romania forcibly became a People 's Republic ( 1947-1965 ) और a member of the Warsaw अनुबंध.
In 1965 Nicolae Ceauşescu became General सचिव of the रोमानियाई कम्युनिस्ट Party, and the harsh austerity उपायों, राजनैतिक repression, और cult of personality he implemented led to the समाजवादी गणतंत्र of Romania ( 1965-1989 ) बनने the most stalinist police राज्य in the Eastern bloc.
Eventually उसके authoritarian government थी toppled in December 1989 दौरान the रोमानियाई क्रान्ति of 1989.
With the fall of the Iron Curtain, रोमानिया began its परिवर्तन towards लोकतंत्र and a पूंजीवादी मार्केट अर्थव्यवस्था.
After a decade of post-revolution आर्थिक problems and living-standards decline, extensive reforms fostered आर्थिक रिकवरी.
as of 2010, Romania is an upper-middle-income देश साथ a high इंसान विकास अनुक्रमणिका.
Romania joined नाटो on 29 March 2004, and the यूरोपीय Union on 1 जनवरी 2007.
It is also a member of the : लैटिन संघ, francophonie, OSCE, WTO, bsec, संयुक्त Nations, etc.
आज, रोमानिया is a एकात्मक semi-presidential republic, in which the executive शाखा consists of the अध्यक्ष और the Government.
`` प्राचीन '' redirects here.
लिये अन्य उपयोग, see Antiquity ( बहुविकल्पी ).
The टाइम्स before writing belong either to protohistory or to prehistory.
khafre 's Pyramid ( 4th राजवंश ) और Great Sphinx of गीज़ा ( c. 2500 bc or perhaps पहले )
Ancient history is the पढ़ाई of the written पास्ट from the शुरूआत of recorded human history to the जल्दी मध्य आयु.
the स्पैन of अंकित इतिहास is roughly 5,000 years, साथ cuneiform स्क्रिप्ट, the oldest discovered form of सुसंगत writing, इससे the protoliterate काल around the 30th सदी bc.
इस is the beginning of इतिहास, as opposed to प्रागितिहास, according to the परिभाषा used by सबसे इतिहासकारों.
the term classical प्राचीनता is often used to refer to history in the Old संसार इससे the beginning of अंकित Greek history in 776 bc ( पहला ओलंपियाड ).
इस roughly coincides with the परंपरागत date of the founding of Rome in 753 BC, the शुरूआत of the इतिहास of ancient रोम, और the beginning of the archaic काल in Ancient Greece.
Although the समाप्ति तिथि of प्राचीन इतिहास is विवादित, कुछ Western विद्वानों use the fall of the Western रोमन साम्राज्य in 476 AD, the closure of the Platonic अकादमी in 529 ad, the death of the emperor जुस्तिनियन I, the coming of Islam or the वृद्धि of शारलेमेन as the end of ancient and शास्त्रीय यूरोपीय इतिहास.
in India, the काल शामिल the जल्दी काल of the Middle kingdoms, और, in चीन, the time up to the Qin राजवंश is included.
Methylcobalamin ( shown ) is a form of vitamin b12.
physically it resembles the other forms of vitamin b12, occurring as dark रेड crystals कि freely रूप cherry-colored पारदर्शी समाधान in water.
Vitamin b12, vitamin b12 or vitamin b-12, भी called cobalamin, is a water-soluble विटामिन साथ a key role in the सामान्य functioning of the brain and बेचैन प्रणाली, और लिये the formation of रक्त.
It is एक of the आठ b vitamins.
it is normally शामिल in the चयापचय of प्रत्येक cell of the इंसान देह, especially affecting डीएनए synthesis and regulation, but also fatty एसिड संश्लेषण and energy production.
neither fungi, पौधे, nor पशु are capable of producing विटामिन B12.
तभी जीवाणु and archaea have the enzymes जरूरी लिये इसके संश्लेषण, हालांकि many भोजन are a natural source of b12 क्युकी of बैक्टीरियल symbiosis.
The विटामिन is the largest and सबसे structurally complicated vitamin and can be उत्पादित industrially only through bacterial fermentation-synthesis.
विटामिन B12 consists of a class of chemically related यौगिकों ( vitamers ), all of जिससे have विटामिन कार्यकलाप.
It contains the biochemically rare element कोबाल्ट.
जैवसंश्लेषण of the basic ढांचा of the विटामिन is संपन्नता तभी by bacteria ( which प्रायः produce hydroxocobalamin ), लकिन conversion between different forms of the विटामिन can be संपन्नता in the human body.
A आम semi-synthetic रूप of the विटामिन, cyanocobalamin, करता नहीं occur in प्रकृति, लकिन is उत्पादित इससे bacterial hydroxocobalamin and तब used in many दवाएँ और पूरक, और as a खाना योगात्मक, because of इसके स्थिरता and निम्नतर उत्पादन cost.
In the देह it is परिवर्तित to the इंसान physiological forms methylcobalamin और adenosylcobalamin, leaving पीछे the साइनाइड, albeit in minimal विशेषज्ञता.
अधिक recently, hydroxocobalamin, methylcobalamin, और adenosylcobalamin can be found in अधिक महंगी pharmacological products and food supplements.
The extra यूटिलिटी of these is currently debated.
Vitamin B12 was खोजा from its संबंध to the बीमारी pernicious anemia, जिससे is an असंक्राम्य disease in जिससे parietal cells of the stomach जिम्मेदार for secreting मूलभूत factor are नष्ट.
मूलभूत factor is निर्णायक for the normal अवशोषण of B12, so a lack of मूलभूत factor, as देखी in घातक रक्ताल्पता, कल्याणकारी a विटामिन b12 कमियां.
अनेक other subtler kinds of vitamin b12 कमियां और their biochemical effects have चूंकि महरूम elucidated.
The रोमन साम्राज्य ( ) थी the post- Republican period of the ancient रोमन civilization, characterised by an autocratic रूप of सरकारी and large territorial holdings around the भूमध्यसागरीय in Europe, अफ़्रीकी, और Asia.
the 500-year-old रोमन गणतंत्र, which preceded it, था महरूम destabilized through a series of सिविल युद्धों.
Several कार्यक्रम marked the परिवर्तन from गणतंत्र to Empire, including Julius Caesar 's नियुक्ति as perpetual तानाशाह ( 44 BC ) ; the Battle of actium ( 31 bc ) ; और the granting of the honorific augustus to Octavian by the रोमन सीनेट ( 27 BC ).
The first दो centuries of the साम्राज्य यहूद a period of unprecedented स्थिरता and prosperity ज्ञात as the Pax Romana ( `` Roman Peace '' ).
It पहुँचे इसके महानतम expanse दौरान the शासनकाल of त्राजान ( 98–117 ad ).
in the 3rd century, the Empire underwent a crisis that threatened its अस्तित्व, but was reunified और stabilized अंतर्गत the emperors Aurelian और diocletian.
Christians रोज़ to power in the 4th century, during which time a system of dual rule थी विकसित in the Latin West and Greek East.
After the collapse of सेंट्रल government in the वेस्ट in the 5th सदी, the eastern हाफ continued as what होता बाद be known as the बीज़ान्टिन Empire.
क्युकी of the साम्राज्य 's vast extent और long सहनशीलता, the संस्थानों and culture of Rome had a profound and स्थायी influence on the development of language, धर्म, वास्तुकला, दर्शनशास्त्र, law, and forms of government in the territory it governed, particularly Europe, and by means of यूरोपीय expansionism throughout the आधुनिक संसार.
Total देह सतह area ( TBSA ) is an assessment measure of burns of the skin.
in वयस्कों, the `` rule of nines '' is used to determine the कुल प्रतिशत of area burned for each प्रमुख खण्ड of the body.
In कुछ cases, the burns may कवर more than one देह part, or may नहीं fully cover ऐसे a part ; in these मामले, burns हैं measured by using the casualty 's ताड़ as a सन्दर्भ पाइंट लिये 1 % of the देह.
लिये children and infants, the Lund-Browder chart is प्रयुक्त to assess the burned देह सतह area.
अलग percentages हैं used because the ratio of the combined सतह क्षेत्रफल of the सिर and गर्दन to the सतह क्षेत्रफल of the limbs is typically larger in children than कि of an adult.
ठेठ मान लिये common समूह of humans follow.
( Due to rounding, values may नहीं add to 100 %. )
संसार infant मृत्यु दरों by पाँच सालो averages in 2008.
This is a सूची of देशों by infant mortality रेट.
यूनुस किर्स्टन Sorrentino ( born June 26, 1975 ), बेहतर known by his स्टेज नाम KJ-52, is a Christian rapper इससे Tampa, Florida.
the `` kj '' part of his name refers to उसके बूढ़ा रैप alias, `` किंग J. Mac, '' a name जिससे he बाद वर्णित in एक of his podcasts as `` horribly cheesy. ''
`` 52 '', which is pronounced `` पाँच दो '', not `` fifty-two '', is a reference to the Biblical story of Jesus feeding the multitude with पाँच loaves और two मछली, which is also sung परिचय in उसके song `` धक्का Up '' from the Yearbook and in the `` kj Five Two '' on It 's सुनाया 'five Two.
he was awarded the rap/hip Hop अंकित Song of the Year for `` Never dekh Away '' और Rap/Hip हॉप एल्बम of the Year at the जीएमए Dove पुरस्कार of 2007.
On July 28, 2009, KJ-52 released `` End of my रस्सी '', जिससे is the पहला सिंगल लिये उसके album five-two Television.
His song `` डिअर Slim '' is based on एमिनेम 's सोंग `` Stan `` and is a sort of personal संदेश इससे KJ-52 to एमिनेम.
The degree प्रतीक ( ° ) is a typographical symbol that is प्रयुक्त, among अन्य बाते, to represent डिग्री of चाप ( e.g. in भौगोलिक निर्देशांक प्रणालियों ), hours ( in the medical field ), or डिग्री of temperature.
The symbol consists of a छोटी उठाया circle, historically a शून्य glyph.
in युनिकोड it is एनकोडेड at.
इस is a list of जड़ें, प्रत्यय, and prefixes used in medical शब्दावली, their meanings, और their etymology.
There are a few rules when using चिकित्सा roots.
Firstly, prefixes and प्रत्यय, primarily in Greek, but भी in Latin, have a droppable -o-.
as a general rule, this -o- almost सदा अधिनियमों as a joint-stem to कनेक्ट two consonantal जड़ें, e.g. arthr- + -o- + logy = arthrology.
लकिन generally, the -o- is dropped when connecting to a vowel-stem ; e.g. arthr- + itis = गठिया, instead of arthr-o-itis.
secondly, medical roots generally go together according to भाषा : यूनानी prefixes go with यूनानी प्रत्यय और लैटिन prefixes with Latin प्रत्यय.
Although international वैज्ञानिक शब्दावली is नहीं stringent परिचय segregating combining forms of अलग भाषाएं, it is advisable when coining new words not to मिक्सर different lingual जड़ें.
Stomach कर्कट, or gastric कर्कट, refers to कर्कट arising from कोई part of the पेट.
Stomach cancer causes परिचय 800,000 मौतों worldwide per year.
Prognosis is ग़रीब ( 5-year अस्तित्व < 5 to 15 % ) क्युकी most patients उपस्थित साथ advanced बीमारी.
सारा Lynn Evans ( born February 5, 1971 ) is an अमरीकी देश singer और songwriter.
For उसके entire करियर, she has महरूम हस्ताक्षरित to RCA रिकॉर्ड Nashville.
Evans ' डेब्यू, तीन मदारी and the Truth, did नहीं produce a Top 40 hit on the Hot देश गीतों चार्ट.
वो followed this up with no Place कि Far ( 1998 ), Born to मक्खी ( 2000 ), Restless ( 2003 ) and रियल ठीक Place ( 2005 ).
no प्लेस कि दूर प्राप्त a gold प्रमाणन इससे the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ of America ( riaa ), while the अन्य three albums all were certified प्लेटिनम.
ये discs शामिल the क्रमांक 1 singles `` No Place That दूर ``, `` Born to मक्खी ``, `` suds in the बाल्टी `` and `` A रियल Fine प्लेस to प्रारंभ ``, प्लस the top 10 hits `` I Could Not पूछो for अधिक `` ( a cover of the Edwin McCain सोंग ), `` i रखना Looking ``, `` Perfect `` और `` cheatin ' ``.
Her 2007 महानतम Hits शामिल the शीर्ष 15 hits `` You 'll Always Be My baby `` and `` As If ``.
stronger ( 2011 ) शामिल उसके fifth number 1 hit, `` a Little बिट Stronger ``, which थी co-written by हिलेरी स्कॉट of महिला antebellum.
इवांस has भी won एक award प्रत्येक from Billboard, the अकादमी of Country म्यूज़िक, देश Music संघ, Broadcast म्यूज़िक Incorporated ( बीएमआई ) and a dove Award.
The संसार 's प्रिंसिपल धर्मों and आध्यात्मिक परंपराओं may be classified into a small क्रमांक of प्रमुख समूह, although this is by no अर्थात् a वर्दी अभ्यास.
This सिद्धान्त began in the 18th सदी with the goal of recognizing the relative levels of civility in societies.
Berliners watching a C-54 land at Tempelhof विमानक्षेत्र ( 1948 )
The बर्लिन नाकेबंदी ( 24 जून 1948 – 12 may 1949 ) was one of the पहला प्रमुख अंतरराष्ट्रीय crises of the ठंडा युद्ध.
दौरान the बहुराष्ट्रीय occupation of post–world War ii जर्मनी, the Soviet संघ blocked the पश्चिमी allies ' railway, road, और canal access to the sectors of बर्लिन under अलाइड control.
उनके aim थी to force the western powers to allow the Soviet zone to प्रारंभ supplying Berlin with food और fuel, thereby giving the Soviets practical control over the entire city.
In response, the पश्चिमी Allies व्यवस्थित the बर्लिन airlift to carry आपूर्तियाँ to the लोगों in West Berlin.
Aircrews इससे the United States Air फ़ोर्स, the British royal एयर फ़ोर्स, the royal Australian एयर Force, the Royal कनाडाई Air फ़ोर्स, the royal New जीलैंड Air फ़ोर्स, and the दक्षिण African Air Force flew over 200,000 फ़्लाइट in एक year, providing up to 4700 tons of daily necessities such as ईंधन और खाना to the Berliners.
by the वसन्त of 1949, the प्रयत्न was clearly succeeding और, by अप्रैल, the airlift was delivering अधिक कार्गो than था previously been transported into the city by रेल.
The कामयाबी of the बर्लिन Airlift brought embarrassment to the Soviets who था refused to believe it could मेक a difference.
The blockade was lifted in may 1949 और resulted in the creation of दो पृथक German states.
The संघीय गणतंत्र of Germany ( वेस्ट Germany ) and the जर्मनी Democratic Republic ( East Germany ) split up Berlin.
In स्मरण of the airlift, three airports in the former western zones of the city served as the प्राथमिक gateways to Germany लिये another fifty सालो.
The यूरोपियन sign ; logotype और हस्तलिखित.
The यूरोपियन sign is the currency चिह्न प्रयुक्त लिये the euro, the official currency of the Eurozone in the यूरोपीय Union ( EU ).
the design was presented to the public by the यूरोपीय Commission on 12 दिसम्बर 1996.
The international three-letter code ( according to ISO मानक आईएसओ 4217 ) for the euro is EUR.
in Unicode it is एनकोडेड at.
in अंग्रेज़ी, the चिह्न precedes the value.
In some styleguides, but not अन्य, the यूरोपियन sign is unspaced.
mate (, ; sometimes also spelled maté ), भी known as chimarrão ( ) or cimarrón ( ), is a परंपरागत South अमरीकी infused drink, particularly in अर्जेंटीना, उरुग्वे, Paraguay and the southern राज्य of ब्राज़ील और to a lesser उपाधि in दक्षिण of चिली, the bolivian Chaco, Syria और Lebanon.
It is prepared from steeping सूखी पत्ते of yerba mate ( llex paraguariensis, known in पुर्तगाली as erva-mate ) in hot जल.
Mate is परोसा with a मेटल स्ट्रॉ इससे a साझा hollow calabash gourd.
The straw is called a bombilla in कुछ लैटिन अमरीकी countries, a bomba in पुर्तगाली, and a bombija or, अधिक generally, a masassa ( type of straw ) in अरबी.
the straw is traditionally made of silver.
Modern, commercially available लोभी हैं typically बना of निकल चांदी, called Alpaca ; stainless स्टील, or hollow-stemmed cane.
the करेले is ज्ञात as a mate or a guampa ; जबकि in ब्राज़ील, it रै the specific नाम of cuia, or भी cabaça ( the नाम लिये Indigenous-influenced calabash gourds in अन्य regions of Brazil, स्टिल used for सामान्य food and पेय in remote regions ).
भी if the जल is supplied इससे a modern thermos, the infusion is traditionally drunk from mates or cuias.
As with अन्य brewed herbs, yerba mate leaves are dried, chopped, and ground into a powdery mixture called yerba.
the bombilla अधिनियमों as both a straw और a sieve.
The submerged end is flared, साथ small holes or slots कि allow the brewed liquid in, लकिन ब्लाक the chunky matter कि makes up much of the mixture.
a modern bombilla design उपयोग a straight ट्यूब साथ holes, or spring sleeve to अधिनियम as a sieve.
`` tea-bag '' type infusions of mate ( mate cocido ) have महरूम on the market in Argentina, पैराग्वे and Uruguay लिये many सालो under ऐसे trade names as `` taragüí vitality '' in Argentina, `` Pajarito '' and `` Kurupí '' in पैराग्वे, और in ब्राज़ील अंतर्गत the नाम `` mate leão ''.
This is माना a completely अलग पेय.
it is never drunk इससे cuias or called chimarrão, nor is it संबद्ध with the gaucho/gaúcho culture.
the ऑटोमोटिव industry is a पद that कवर a wide दायरा of कंपनियाँ and संगठनों involved in the डिज़ाइन, development, manufacture, विपणन, और selling of मोटर वाहनों, towed वाहनों, motorcycles और mopeds.
it is एक of the world 's सबसे important आर्थिक sectors by आय.
the पद automotive उद्योग प्रायः करता नहीं शामिल उद्योग समर्पित to the मेंटेनेंस of automobiles following delivery to the end-user, such as repair shops और motor ईंधन भरना स्टेशन.
the पद automotive was created इससे यूनानी autos ( स्वः ), and लैटिन motivus ( of गति ) to represent any form of self-powered vehicle.
इस term was प्रस्तावित by sae सदस्य Elmer Sperry.
दाउद Michael `` Dave '' bautista, jr. ( born जनवरी 18, 1969 ), is an अमरीकी मिश्रित martial artist, bodybuilder, कर्ता, और former पेशेवर wrestler best known लिये उसके समय in संसार कुश्ती entertainment स्पर्धा अंतर्गत the रिंग नाम Batista.
in डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई, he became a six-time world चैंपियन, जीतना the World Heavyweight चैंपियनशिप चार times, और the WWE चैंपियनशिप two times.
he is the longest-reigning World Heavyweight चैंपियन in डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई history.
In जोड to these championships, बतिस्ता has जीती the World Tag Team चैंपियनशिप three times ( twice with ric Flair और एकबार साथ John Cena ) और the डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई Tag Team चैंपियनशिप एकबार ( with Rey Mysterio ).
Batista was also the विजेता of the 2005 Royal rumble मैच and गई on to शीर्षक रेसलमेनिया 21, one of the शीर्ष पाँच highest-grossing pay-per-view कार्यक्रम in प्रो कुश्ती इतिहास.
After trying out at संसार Championship कुश्ती 's Power Plant, बतिस्ता signed a contract साथ the WWF in 2000 और थी sent to its developmental territory, ओहियो Valley Wrestling ( OVW ), जहाँ he won the OVW Heavyweight Championship.
In August 2012, bautista signed a contract with Classic entertainment & Sports to fight in mixed martial arts.
He won his mma debut on अक्तूबर 6, 2012, defeating विंस lucero via TKO in the पहला round.
Henry T. थामस Sampson, jr. ( born in Jackson, मिसिसिपी in 1934 ) is an African-American आविष्कारक.
He ग्रैजुएट इससे high school in 1951 इससे lanier ऊँची स्कूल in जैक्सन, Mississippi.
He then attended Morehouse कॉलेज for a युगल of सालो पहले transferring to purdue विश्वविद्यालयों जहाँ he became a member of the ओमेगा Psi फाई बिरादरी.
he प्राप्त a स्नातक 's उपाधि in science इससे purdue University in 1956.
he ग्रैजुएट with an MS उपाधि in engineering इससे the University of California, लॉस एंजिल्स in 1961.
Sampson also received his ms in नाभिकीय Engineering इससे the विश्वविद्यालयों of इलिनोइस Urbana-Champaign in 1965, और his PhD in 1967.
he is the पहला अफ़्रीकी American to earn a Ph.D.in Nuclear Engineering in the United States.
Some of उसके accomplishments include being a member of the United States Navy between the years 1962 and 1964 and कमाई an परमाणु Energy आयोग honor between 1964 और 1967.
Later he was awarded the ब्लैक Image पुरस्कार इससे Aerospace Corporation in 1982.
He was awarded the अश्वेतों in अभियान्त्रिकी, Applied Science Award, और prize लिये शिक्षा, by the Los एंजिल्स परिषद of Black पेशेवर इंजीनियर्स in 1983.
in June 2007, sampson was शादीशुदा to लौरा howzell Young in st. Thomas, u.S. वर्जिन Islands.
Young-Sampson is a professor in the कॉलेज of Education at कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों San Bernardino.
Robert Lane गिब्स ( born March 29, 1971 ) is a वरिष्ठ campaign adviser लिये US President Barack Obama.
previously, he थी the 28th White House दबायें सचिव.
Gibbs was the संचार director for then- u.s. सीनेटर Obama और उसके 2008 presidential अभियान.
Gibbs, who has worked साथ Obama since 2004, थी press सचिव of जॉन Kerry 's 2004 presidential campaign and has previously specialized in सीनेट campaigns, having परोसा as communications निदेशक लिये the लोकतांत्रिक Senatorial अभियान Committee and लिये चार व्यक्तिगत Senate अभियान, including those of Obama in 2004 और फ्रिट्ज़ hollings in 1998.
Gibbs थी भी the press secretary of Representative bob Etheridge.
on नवम्बर 22, 2008, गिब्स was announced as the press secretary of the Obama administration.
he assumed the भूमिका of दबायें सचिव on जनवरी 20, 2009, और दिया his first official drug on January 22.
On January 5, 2011, Gibbs घोषित कि he होता छोड़ the White हाउस to become an outside adviser to the administration.
He बाएँ on फ़रवरी 11, 2011.
On February 12, 2013, it was घोषित that Gibbs had been नियुक्त as a योगदानकर्ता लिये cable-news चैनल एमएसएनबीसी.
उसके पहला रूप was on the same night prior to the 2013 State of the संघ पता.
Armando pérez ( born January 15, 1981 ), बेहतर known by his stage name Pitbull, is an American rapper, songwriter, और record निर्माता.
His first अंकित performance was from the लील jon एल्बम Kings of Crunk in 2002.
In 2004, he released his डेब्यू album titled M.I.A.M.I. ( छोटी for Money is A Major समस्या ) under TVT Records.
Since तब, he has released तीन other albums under the लेबल : el mariel in 2006, the Boatlift in 2007, और ग्रह Pit in 2011.
He released rebelution in 2009, which included singles `` i जान You want Me ( calle ocho ) `` और `` Krazy ``.
the latter peaked at No. 30 on the hot 100 and no. 11 on the hot Rap Tracks charts while `` I Know तुम want me '' peaked at no. 2 on the hot 100 and peaked भीतर the शीर्ष टेन धब्बे of charts in the UK, Canada, Italy, and the नीदरलैंड्स.
The सोंग पहुँचे No. 1 in फ़्रांस and the European hot 100 on the सप्ताह समाप्ति August 29, 2009 according to Billboard magazine.
He later signed with Polo grounds म्यूज़िक through सोनी Music and निर्मित his अपना लेबल Mr. 305 inc.
another सिंगल from rebelution थी `` होटल रूम सेवा ``, जिससे peaked at No. 8 on the hot 100.
rebelution went on to बेचें over 7.5 लाख worldwide digital singles और albums combined.
nevertheless, he dropped a तोड़ called `` Give Me Everything '' जिससे reached # 1 विश्वव्यापी, और प्रदर्शित कलाकारों ne-yo, Nayer, and Afrojack.
He रै भी performed as a प्रदर्शित कलाकार in the remixes of अनेक other hit songs, जैसे Tik Tok, चीख & Shout, lo Hecho Esta Hecho, Bad, Papi, Diamonds, How Low, tonight ( I 'm lovin ' तुम ), वीडियो Phone, over to You अभी and bumpy Ride.
Pérez is also the host of his अपना spanish-language program on the cable चैनल Mun2 titled la esquina ( स्पेनी for the कोने ).
in 2005 Pérez और rapper शॉन 'diddy ' combs co-founded ख़राब Boy लातीनी, a subsidiary of Combs ' ख़राब Boy Records label.
it primarily focuses on Latin हिप हॉप, लैटिन आत्मा, लैटिन pop और अन्य Tropical music, and has offices in नई York और मियामी, फ्लोरिडा.
Along with co-founding it, pérez फिलहाल heads the a & r division of the लेबल.
pérez रै become a product endorser, representing alongside Drake, रिहाना, और Trey Songz the “So Kodak” अभियान लिये the Kodak brand और embarking on a partnership with the नरम drink दानव dr Pepper as भाग of the campaign “ Vida 23 ” लिये which he अंकित the सोंग specifically featured on his album अरमांडो.
Pitbull भी announced he has become the spokesperson for Voli वोदका, in which he holds a बहुमत equity stake, and Budweiser रै चुनी pitbull to प्रचार इसके Bud लाइट line of beer.
the commercials currently हाइलाइट pitbull dancing और gyrating on स्टेज holding up a बोतल of Bud लाइट.
pitbull has also purchased an इक्विटी stake in Miami subs Pizza and Grill.
Halloween or hallowe'en ( a संकुचन of `` All hallows ' Evening `` ), भी ज्ञात as सब Hallows ' संध्या, is a वार्षिक जश्न observed in a number of countries on अक्तूबर 31, the संध्या of the Western Christian feast of सब hallows ( or All Saints ) और the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas.
According to अनेक विद्वानों, All Hallows ' संध्या is a Christianised feast originally influenced by पश्चिमी European कटाई festivals, and त्यौहार of the मुर्दे साथ संभावित pagan roots, particularly the सेल्टिक samhain.
अन्य scholars maintain that it originated independently of Samhain and has solely ईसाई जड़ें.
Typical त्यौहार Halloween क्रियाएँ शामिल trick-or-treating ( भी ज्ञात as `` guising `` ), attending costume पार्टियों, carving pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, ठहराना bobbing, visiting haunted attractions, playing pranks, telling scary कहानियां, और watching हॉरर films.
स्वतंत्रता of speech is the political right to communicate one 's राय और ideas using one 's body और property to anyone जो is willing to प्राप्त them.
the पद स्वतंत्रता of expression is sometimes प्रयुक्त synonymously, लकिन शामिल कोई अधिनियम of seeking, receiving और imparting सूचना or ideas, regardless of the मीडियम used.
in अभ्यास, the सही to स्वतंत्रता of वाक is नहीं absolute in any देश and the right is commonly subject to limitations, as साथ libel, slander, obscenity, राजद्रोह ( सहित, लिये example inciting जातीय द्वेष ), copyright उल्लंघन, revelation of information कि is classified or वरना.
The सही to freedom of अभिव्यक्ति is recognized as a इंसान right अंतर्गत आलेख 19 of the सार्वभौमिक Declaration of Human अधिकारों and पहचाना in अंतरराष्ट्रीय human अधिकारों law in the International वचन on सिविल and Political Rights ( ICCPR ).
आलेख 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold राय without interference '' और `` everyone shall have the सही to स्वतंत्रता of अभिव्यक्ति ; इस सही shall include स्वतंत्रता to तलाश, receive और impart सूचना and ideas of सब kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in writing or in print, in the रूप of art, or through any अन्य media of his choice ''.
Article 19 goes on to कह that the कसरत of ये rights carries `` खास कर्तव्य and responsibilities `` और may `` therefore be subject to निश्चित restrictions '' when जरुरी `` [ f ] or respect of the rights or reputation of others '' or `` [ f ] or the सुरक्षा of नेशनल सुरक्षा or of पब्लिक order ( order public ), or of पब्लिक health or नैतिकता ''.
Freedom of वाक may be legally curtailed in some religious legal systems and in धर्मनिरपेक्ष jurisdictions where it is मिला to cause धार्मिक ठोकर, such as the अंग्रेजों Racial और धार्मिक Hatred Act 2006.
सिडनी harbour from the एयर, प्रर्दशित the ओपेरा हाउस, the सीबीडी, गोलाकार quay, the सेतु, the parramatta नदी, North Sydney और kirribilli in the foreground
the सिडनी harbour सेतु is a steel through arch bridge आरपार Sydney harbour कि carries रेल, vehicular, सायकिल और पैदल ट्रैफ़िक between the सिडनी सेंट्रल कारोबार district ( सीबीडी ) and the उत्तर shore.
The dramatic view of the सेतु, the harbour, और the आसपास Sydney ओपेरा हाउस is an iconic चित्र of Sydney, New दक्षिण Wales, और Australia.
the सेतु is nicknamed `` The Coathanger '' because of its arch-based design.
Under the दिशानिर्देश of Dr J.J.C. Bradfield of the nsw Department of Public works, the सेतु was designed and निर्मित by British कड़ dorman long और co ltd of Middlesbrough और opened in 1932.
the सेतु 's design थी influenced by the Hell फाटक Bridge in New यॉर्क.
it थी the world 's widest long-span सेतु, at 48.8 meters ( 160 feet ) चौड़ी, जबतक निर्माण of the नई Port मन Bridge in वैंकूवर.
it is भी the पांचवां longest spanning-arch सेतु in the संसार, and it is the tallest steel मेहराब bridge, measuring from top to water level.
Until 1967 the harbour Bridge थी Sydney 's tallest structure.
The Hawaii हॉटस्पॉट is a volcanic hotspot स्तिथ निकट the namesake हवाई Islands, in the उत्तरी प्रशांत Ocean.
एक of the most well-known and heavily studied hotspots in the world, the हवाई plume is जिम्मेदार लिये the सृष्टि of the हवाई – Emperor seamount chain, an over 5,800 किलोमीटर ( 3,600 mi ) long chain of ज्वालामुखी, चार of जिससे are क्रियाशील, two of which are dormant, और more than 123 of जिससे हैं extinct, many having चूंकि महरूम मैदान beneath the waves by अपरदन as seamounts and atolls.
The chain extends इससे दक्षिण of the द्वीप of हवाई to the edge of the Aleutian गर्त, निकट the पूर्वी किनारे of Russia.
जबकि most volcanoes are created by geological activity at tectonic थाली boundaries, the Hawaii हॉटस्पॉट is located far इससे nearby plate boundaries ; the क्लासिक hotspot सिद्धान्त, first प्रस्तावित in 1963 by John Tuzo विल्सन, proposes that a single, fixed mantle plume builds volcanoes that तब, cut off from their source by the movement of the Pacific Plate, become increasingly निष्क्रिय और आखिरकार इरोड नीचे sea level over millions of सालो.
According to this सिद्धान्त, the nearly 60° बेंड separating the सम्राट and हवाई खण्ड of the chain थी caused by a sudden shift in the गति of the प्रशांत थाली.
In 2003, भैस investigations of this irregularity led to the proposal of a मोबाईल हॉटस्पॉट सिद्धान्त, suggesting कि hotspots are mobile, नहीं फिक्स्ड, and कि the 47 million साल बूढ़ा बेंड was caused by a शिफ़्ट in the hotspot 's motion बल्कि than the plate 's.
प्राचीन hawaiians were the first to recognize the increasing age and weathered state of the volcanoes to the उत्तर as वे progressed on fishing रिझाने साथ the आइलैंड्स.
The volatile राज्य of the हवाई ज्वालामुखी and their constant बैटल साथ the समुद्र थी a major तत्व in हवाई mythology, समाविष्ट in Pele, the देवता of ज्वालामुखी.
After the आगमन of europeans on the द्वीप, in 1880-1881 जेम्स Dwight दाना directed the पहला formal geological study of the hotspot 's volcanics, confirming the relationship long observed by the natives.
1912 marked the founding of the हवाई ज्वालामुखी वेधशाला by volcanologist Thomas Jaggar, initiating continuous scientific observation of the आइलैंड्स.
in the 1970s, a mapping प्रोजेक्ट थी initiated to लाभ more information about the complex geology of हवाई 's seafloor.
The हॉटस्पॉट has since been tomographically imaged, प्रर्दशित it to be चौड़ी और up to गहन, और olivine और garnet -based अध्ययन have दिखाया इसके मैग्मा chamber is approximately.
In इसके at least 85 लाख सालो of activity the hotspot रै produced an अनुमानित of rock.
The chain 's rate of drift रै धीरे increased over time, causing the राशि of time each individual volcano is active to decrease, from 18 million years for the 76 लाख year old डेट्रॉयट seamount, to बस अंतर्गत 900,000 लिये the one लाख year-old Kohala ; on the other हाथ, eruptive आवाज़ रै increased इससे per साल to परिचय.
Overall, इस has caused a ट्रेंड towards more active but quickly-silenced, closely spaced volcanoes—whereas ज्वालामुखी on the near side of the हॉटस्पॉट overlap प्रत्येक other ( forming ऐसे superstructures as Hawaii island and the ancient मावी नुई ), the oldest of the Emperor seamounts are spaced as दूर as अलावा.
दाउद पामर, निदेशक of the दिखाएँ, घोषित that the ऋतु 4 finale is the श्रेणी finale क्युकी निकलोडियन canceled the show.
याचिकाएं are होने हस्ताक्षरित to लाओ the show for a पांचवां ऋतु.
the show airs on treehouse tv Canada and Nick Jr. ( formerly Noggin ).
एडी और the cruisers is a 1983 अमरीकी फिल्मी directed by Martin डेविडसन with the पटकथा written by the director और arlene Davidson, आधारित on the अनोखा by P. F. kluge.
it थी marketed साथ the टैगलाइन `` विद्रोही.
Rocker.
Lover.
आइडल.
vanished. ''
Osteonecrosis of the जबड़ों ( onj ) is a कठोर अस्थि बीमारी that affects the maxilla and the mandible.
विभिन्न forms of ONJ have been described over the last 160 सालो, and a क्रमांक of कल्याणकारी have been suggested in the literature.
Osteonecrosis of the jaws संबद्ध साथ bisphosphonate चिकित्सा, जरूरी by some cancer उपचार regimens, रै महरूम पहचाना और पारिभाषित as a pathological entity चूंकि 2003.
the संभावित रिस्क from lower मौखिक doses of bisphosphonates, taken by मरीजों to prevent or treat ऑस्टियोपोरोसिस, remains अनिश्चित.
Various treatment विकल्प have been छान, however severe cases of ONJ still आवश्यकता सर्जिकल removal of the प्रभावित bone.
A thorough history and assessement of pre-existing प्रणालीगत समस्याएं and possible साइट of dental संक्रमण हैं जरूरी to सहायता prevent the कंडीशन, especially if bisphosphonate चिकित्सा is considered.
The Boston Red sox are a पेशेवर बेसबॉल team based in Boston, Massachusetts, और a member of Major लीग बेसबॉल 's अमरीकी लीग Eastern प्रभाग.
संस्थापित in as एक of the अमरीकी League 's eight चार्टर franchises, the रेड sox 's home ballpark has been fenway Park since.
The `` Red sox '' name थी चुनी by the team मालिक, John I. टेलर, around, following पिछला Boston टीमों कि had been ज्ञात as the `` Red stockings ``.
वे have played in 11 World Series, जीतना 7.
बोस्टन was a प्रबल team in the new league, defeating the पिट्सबर्ग Pirates in the पहला संसार श्रेणी in and winning चार अधिक championships by.
However, they then went into one of the longest championship droughts in बेसबॉल इतिहास, पुकारा by कुछ the `` Curse of the Bambino `` after इसके alleged शुरूआत साथ the रेड sox 's sale of Babe Ruth to the प्रतिद्वंद्वी Yankees two सालो after उनके संसार चैंपियनशिप in 1918, an 86-year इंतजार पहले the team 's छठे संसार चैंपियनशिप in.
however, the टोली 's history दौरान कि काल थी hardly एक of futility, लकिन थी बल्कि punctuated with some of the सबसे यादगार पल in World Series history, सहित enos Slaughter 's `` mad डैश `` in, the `` नामुमकिन Dream `` of, कार्लटन फिस्क 's home run in, और Bill Buckner 's error in.
Red Sox history रै भी been चिह्नित by the team 's intense फंसने साथ the नई York यांकीज़, arguably the fiercest और सबसे ऐतिहासिक in उत्तर American पेशेवर खेल.
the Boston रेड sox are स्वामित्व by Fenway खेल Group, जो also own Liverpool फ़ुटबॉल क्लबों of the Premier लीग in इंग्लैण्ड.
The रेड Sox are consistently one of the top MLB teams in औसत road attendance, जबकि the small capacity of fenway पार्क रोकता them इससे अग्रणी in overall उपस्थिति.
इससे May 15, 2003 to April 10, 2013, the रेड sox sold out प्रत्येक home game-a total of 820 games ( 794 regular season ) लिये a major पेशेवर sports record that lasted almost a दशक.
mince pie भर साथ mincemeat
mincemeat is a मिश्रण of कटा सूखी fruit, distilled आत्माओं और spices, and sometimes beef suet, beef, or venison.
originally, mincemeat always contained मांस.
अनेक आधुनिक recipes contain beef suet, हालांकि vegetable shortening is sometimes used in इसके प्लेस.
विसंगतियाँ of mincemeat हैं found in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, ब्रिटनी, Canada, उत्तरी यूरोपीय, Ireland, दक्षिण Africa, the संयुक्त किंगडम and the संयुक्त States.
in some देशों the पद mincemeat refers to minced or ground meat.
डायना, Princess of वेल्स ( डायना Frances ; née स्पेंसर ; 1 July 1961 – 31 August 1997 ) थी the first wife of Charles, Prince of Wales, the ज्येष्ठ son और वारिस apparent of महारानी Elizabeth II.
She was well ज्ञात लिये उसके fund-raising work for अंतरराष्ट्रीय धर्मार्थ और as an प्रतिष्ठित हस्ती of the late 20th century.
उसके विवाह to the प्रिंस of वेल्स on 29 जुलाई 1981 was आयोजित at St Paul 's Cathedral और देखी by a वैश्विक टेलीविज़न दर्शक of over 750 million.
While married वो bore the titles Princess of वेल्स, Duchess of कॉर्नवॉल, Duchess of Rothesay, Countess of चेस्टर and बैरोनेस of renfrew.
the विवाह produced two sons, the princes William और हैरी, जो became second and third in line to the British सिंहासन.
डायना थी born into an वैभवशाली अंग्रेज़ी परिवार साथ royal ancestry.
वो was the fourth child of जॉन स्पेंसर, 8th Earl Spencer and उसके wife Frances, daughter of Maurice रोश, 4th Baron fermoy.
She became a public figure with the घोषणा of उसके सगाई.
वो भी प्राप्त मान्यता for her charity work and for her support of the International Campaign to Ban landmines.
इससे 1989, वो थी the president of the Great Ormond गली Hospital लिये children, in addition to दर्जनों of other charities.
Diana remained the object of विश्वव्यापी मीडिया scrutiny दौरान and after her विवाह, which ended in divorce on 28 August 1996.
मीडिया attention and पब्लिक शोक यहूद considerable following her मौत in a car crash in पेरिस on 31 August 1997.
अर्जेंटीना, officially the Argentine गणतंत्र ( ), is the दूसरी largest country in both दक्षिण अमेरिका और the Latin अमेरिका प्रदेश.
The देश is a federation of 23 provinces और the autonomous city of Buenos Aires, its capital और largest city.
it is the eighth -largest country in the संसार by जमीन area और the largest among Spanish-speaking nations by geographical area of 2,780,400 km2 और is the fourth by population, साथ over 41 लाख people.
अर्जेंटीना is a founding member of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र, Mercosur, the संघ of South अमरीकी राष्ट्र, the संगठन of ibero-american States, the संसार Bank समूह और the World व्यापार संगठन, and is one of the G-15 and g-20 major economies.
Argentina is स्तिथ in दक्षिण अमेरिका, bordered by चिली to the वेस्ट and दक्षिण, Bolivia और Paraguay to the उत्तर और ब्राज़ील and Uruguay to the पूर्वोत्तर.
Argentina दावा sovereignty over भाग of Antarctica, the Falkland Islands ( ) और South जॉर्जिया और the South सैंडविच आइलैंड्स.
Argentina is the successor राज्य of the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata, an overseas colony of the Spanish Empire.
Argentina declared स्वतंत्रता दौरान the अर्जेंटाइन War of स्वतंत्रता, जिससे थी followed by the अर्जेंटाइन Civil युद्धों during सबसे of the 19th century.
the देश faced several military coups and राजनैतिक अस्थिरता during the 20th सदी, साथ with periodic आर्थिक crisis that continue to इस day.
A पहचाना दक्षिणी Cone power, और middle शक्ति, Argentina is Latin अमेरिका 's third-largest अर्थव्यवस्था, with a `` बहुत ऊँची '' दरजा on the इंसान development अनुक्रमणिका.
भीतर लैटिन America, Argentina रै the fifth highest nominal जीडीपी per capita and the उच्चतम in खरीदना power terms.
the Legatum Institute have argued that the country रै a `` foundation for future growth due to its market आकार, levels of विदेशी direct निवेश, और प्रतिशत of high-tech निर्यात as share of total manufactured goods '', and it is classed by निवेशकों as middle emerging अर्थव्यवस्था.
Argentina is the लैटिन अमरीकी देश साथ the most Nobel Prizes, लिये a total of five, सब प्राप्त दौरान the दूसरी half of the twentieth century.
the देश has three नोबेल prizes in विज्ञान and दो of सलाम.
the most महत्वपूर्ण aspects of science और प्रौद्योगिकी in अर्जेंटीना हैं concerned with medicine, nuclear physics, biotechnology, nanotechnology, space और प्रक्षेपास्त्र technology and several फ़ील्ड related to the देश 's Main Economic क्रियाएँ.
The country also रै the आचमन प्रदर्शनी center of science, प्रौद्योगिकी, industry and art that are लैटिन अमेरिका 's largest.
hickory is a city in catawba County, साथ भाग also in बुर्के काउंटी और काल्डवेल County.
The city 's 2010 estimated population is 40,010.
hickory is the प्रिंसिपल city in the Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton एमएसए, in which the जनसांख्यिकी at the 2010 Census was 365,497.
Polyethylene terephthalate ( sometimes written poly ( एथिलीन terephthalate ) ), commonly abbreviated पालतु, PETE, or the obsolete petp or PET-P, is a thermoplastic polymer resin of the पॉलिएस्टर family and is प्रयुक्त in सिंथेटिक मछली ; पेय, food and other liquid containers ; thermoforming applications ; और अभियान्त्रिकी resins often in combination साथ कांच fiber.
the पद polyethylene terephthalate is a सोर्स of confusion because this पदार्थ, पालतु, does not contain polyethylene.
Thus, the alternate रूप, बहु ( एथिलीन terephthalate ), is often used in scholarly जर्नल्स लिये the खातिर of सटीकता and clarity.
Depending on इसके processing और thermal history, polyethylene terephthalate may मौजूद both as an amorphous ( transparent ) और as a semi-crystalline पॉलिमर.
the semicrystalline material might appear पारदर्शी ( कण आकार < 500 nm ) or opaque और श्वेत ( particle आकार up to a few माइक्रोन ) depending on its crystal structure and particle आकार.
इसके monomer ( bis-β-hydroxyterephthalate ) can be synthesized by the esterification प्रतिक्रिया between terephthalic एसिड and ethylene glycol with water as a byproduct, or by transesterification reaction between ethylene ग्लाइकोल और dimethyl terephthalate with methanol as a byproduct.
बहुलकीकरण is through a polycondensation reaction of the monomers ( done तत्काल बाद esterification/transesterification ) साथ जल as the byproduct.
The बहुमत of the world 's पालतु उत्पादन is लिये synthetic fibers ( in excess of 60 % ), with bottle उत्पादन हिसाब लिये around 30 % of वैश्विक माँग.
In the context of textile अनुप्रयोग, PET is referred to by इसके common name, `` polyester, '' whereas the एक्रोनिम `` PET '' is generally used in relation to packaging.
पॉलिएस्टर makes up परिचय 18 % of संसार पॉलिमर production and is the third-most-produced पॉलिमर ; polyethylene ( pe ) and polypropylene ( PP ) हैं first और second, respectively.
पालतु consists of polymerized units of the मोनोमर ethylene terephthalate, साथ repeating c10h8o4 इकाई.
PET is commonly recycled, and रै the क्रमांक `` 1 '' as its रीसाइक्लिंग प्रतीक.
louisiana थी admitted to the Union on अप्रैल 30, 1812, और elects सीनेटरों to Classes 2 and Class 3.
Its current सीनेटरों हैं डेमोक्रेट Mary landrieu और Republican दाउद Vitter.
ब्लैक pudding, blood खीर or blood सॉसेज is a type of sausage made by cooking रक्त or सूखी blood with a फिलर until it is thick पर्याप्त to congeal जब cooled.
The dish exists in various संस्कृतियों इससे Asia to यूरोपीय and the Americas.
सुअर, चौपायों, शीप, बतख, और बकरी blood can be used depending on अलग countries.
in Europe and the americas, typical fillers शामिल मांस, मोटे, suet, ब्रैड, cornmeal, मीठी potato, onion, chestnuts, जौ, and oatmeal.
In स्पेन, Portugal और एशिया, आलू is often replaced by rice.
शेयरधारक may refer to:
शेयरधारक ( corporate ), a व्यक्ति, समूह, organization, सदस्य or प्रणाली who affects or can be प्रभावित by an संगठन 's क्रियाएँ
Stakeholder, an entity that can be affected by the परिणाम of कि in जिससे वे are कहा to be हितधारकों, i.e., कि in which they have a हिस्सेदारी.
प्रोजेक्ट stakeholder, a व्यक्ति, group or organization साथ an interest in a project
Stakeholder सिद्धान्त, a सिद्धान्त that identifies और models the groups which are stakeholders of a corporation or प्रोजेक्ट
शेयरधारक विश्लेषण, the प्रक्रम of identifying those affected by a project or event
Stakeholder ( law ), a third पार्टी जो temporarily holds धन or प्रॉपर्टी जबकि इसके मालिक is still होने determined
जोकर smight ( कूच 9, 1925 - September 1, 2003 ) was an अमरीकी theatre and फिल्मी निदेशक.
smight was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota and went to school with future कर्ता Peter Graves.
His फिल्मी क्रेडिट include the traveling Executioner, खरगोश, Run, Loving Couples, मिडवे, हार्पर, Airport 1975, फटकार Alley and the Emmy Award -winning एडी, as well as many एपीसोड of टेलीविज़न series ऐसे as the गोधूलि Zone और The अल्फ्रेड Hitchcock घंटा.
He also निर्देशित the 1960 ब्रॉडवे play the 49th cousin and composed the म्यूज़िक लिये the फिल्मी adaption of Roll of Thunder Hear my Cry.
smight died इससे cancer in लॉस Angeles, California.
dmitri ivanovich Mendeleev ( ; 8 February 1834 – 2 फ़रवरी 1907 O.S. 27 जनवरी 1834 – 20 जनवरी 1907 ) was a Russian केमिस्ट and inventor.
he formulated the Periodic विधि, created his अपना version of the periodic तालिका of elements, और प्रयुक्त it to correct the गुण of some already discovered elements और भी to predict the गुण of तत्व yet to be खोजा !
Modesto ( Spanish for `` modest '' ), officially the नगर of modesto, is the county सीट and largest city of stanislaus County, California, संयुक्त राज्य.
With a population of लगभग 201,165 at the 2010 census, Modesto ranks as the 18th largest city in the राज्य of California.
The modesto Census County Division, जिससे शामिल the शहरों of ceres और riverbank, has a population of 312,842 as of 2010.
Modesto is स्तिथ in the सेंट्रल valley area of Northern कैलिफ़ोर्निया, 90 मील उत्तर of Fresno, 92 miles ईस्ट of सैन Francisco, 68 मील south of the राज्य capital of sacramento, 66 मील वेस्ट of yosemite नेशनल Park, and 24 miles दक्षिण of स्टॉकटन.
modesto, a 29-time पेड़ City USA honoree, is surrounded by rich farmland, lending to a रैंकिंग for the county as 6th among सब California काउंटी in farm production.
Led by मिल्क, बादाम, मुर्गियों, walnuts, and corn साइलेज, the काउंटी grossed nearly $ 3.1 billion in agricultural production in 2011.
Modesto was immortalized in the 1973 George लुकास फिल्मी American Graffiti.
the पुरस्कार जीतना फिल्मी captured the स्पिरिट of `` cruising '' और दोस्ती on 10th और 11th Streets in 1962 and led to the पुनरुद्धार of 1950 's nostalgia that शामिल the TV show प्रसन्न दिनों और the other spin-offs.
रॉन हावर्ड, Harrison Ford और Richard dreyfuss starred in the film.
the साउंडट्रैक थी a huge success.
निदेशक George Lucas is a native of modesto, graduating from Downey ऊँची स्कूल in 1962.
The Gallup-Healthways Well-Being अनुक्रमणिका लिये 2011, which साक्षात्कार 1,000 participants daily और asks individuals to assess their कार्य, finances, शारीरिक health, emotional राज्य of दिमाग और समुदायों, ranked Modesto 126 आउट of the 190 शहरों surveyed.
In दिसम्बर 2009, फोर्ब्स क्रमित Modesto 48th आउट of 100 among `` Best Bang-for-the-Buck शहरों ''.
in इस रैंकिंग, Modesto क्रमित 8th in housing affordability और travel समय but also ranked 86th in जॉब forecast विकास और 99th in foreclosures.
स्वतंत्रता दिन, commonly known as the चौथी of July, is a federal holiday in the संयुक्त States commemorating the adoption of the Declaration of स्वतंत्रता on जुलाई 4, 1776, declaring स्वतंत्रता इससे the Kingdom of Great Britain.
स्वतंत्रता Day is commonly संबद्ध with आतिशबाजी, parades, barbecues, carnivals, fairs, picnics, कॉन्सर्ट, baseball खेल, family reunions, and राजनैतिक speeches and ceremonies, in addition to विभिन्न अन्य पब्लिक and निजी कार्यक्रम celebrating the इतिहास, government, and परंपराओं of the संयुक्त States.
Independence दिन is the नेशनल day of the संयुक्त States.
a gender प्रतीक denotes the sex of an organism or characterizes an agent by लिंग.
The two मानक लिंग symbols denoting पुरूष ♂ और मादा ♀ are निकला इससे astrological प्रतीकों, denoting the classical planets मंगल and Venus, क्रमशः.
These प्रतीकों have been in उपयोग चूंकि the पुनर्जागरण भी denoting elements in alchemy, specifically the धातुओं आयरन और copper.
They were first प्रयुक्त to denote the effective लिंग of पौधे ( i.e. sex of individual in a given crossbreed, since सबसे plants हैं hermaphroditic ) by carolus लीनियस in 1751.
A leasehold estate is an ownership of a temporary right to थाम जमीन or प्रॉपर्टी in which a lessee or a किरायेदार holds अधिकारों of रियल property by some form of title from a lessor or landlord.
Although a किरायेदार करता थाम अधिकारों to रियल प्रॉपर्टी, a leasehold estate is typically considered निजी property.
Leasehold is a form of land tenure or property tenure जहाँ एक पार्टी buys the right to occupy land or a भवन for a दिए length of समय.
as पट्टे is a विधिक estate, leasehold एस्टेट can be bought और sold on the open market.
A leasehold यूँ differs इससे a freehold or fee सरल where the ownership of a property is purchased outright and thereafter आयोजित for an indeterminate लंबाई of time, and also differs from a tenancy where a प्रॉपर्टी is let ( rented ) on a periodic आधार such as weekly or मासिक.
जबतक the end of the पट्टे काल ( often measured in दशकों or centuries ; a 99 year पट्टे is काफी आम ) the leaseholder रै the सही to remain in occupation as an assured किरायेदार paying an सहमत किराया to the मालिक.
Terms of the अनुबंध are contained in a पट्टे, जिससे has तत्व of contract and property law intertwined.
the पद एस्टेट लिये सालो may occasionally be प्रयुक्त.
इस refers to a leasehold एस्टेट for कोई विशिष्ट काल of time ( the word `` सालो '' is भ्रामक ).
an एस्टेट for सालो is नहीं automatically नवीनीकृत.
Colloquially, `` lease '' और `` leasing `` are प्रायः a formalization of a longer, specific period as compared with a `` rental '' कि निर्मित a tenancy at will, terminable or renewable at the समाप्त of a छोटी काल.
ओलिविया ( also ज्ञात as स्वागत to the संसार of the Pig ओलिविया ) is a british-american children 's animated television series उत्पादित by media कम्पनी Chorion और आधारित on Ian falconer 's किताबे.
It is देखी on Nick Jr. in the US, Milkshake !
, उपनाम Jr. in the uk and आयरलैंड, और डिज़्नी जूनियर in लैटिन America and Brazil, Treehouse tv in Canada.
the दिखाएँ रै won a चांदी अभिभावक ' चुनाव पुरस्कार for its positive स्टोरी lines and वर्ण.
Location of Panama between Pacific ( bottom ) और caribbean ( top ), साथ canal at top बीच
the Panama Canal ( ) is a ship canal in Panama that connects the Atlantic Ocean ( via the caribbean Sea ) to the प्रशांत Ocean.
The कनाल cuts आरपार the Isthmus of पनामा and is a कुंजी conduit लिये international मेरीटाइम व्यापार.
वहीँ are ताले at each end to lift ships up to Gatun झील ( ऊपर sea-level ).
Gatun Lake was created to reduce the amount of कार्य जरूरी for the canal.
The वर्तमान locks हैं wide.
A third, wider लेन of locks is होने built.
फ़्रांस began कार्य on the canal in 1881, but had to रोकें because of अभियान्त्रिकी समस्याएं और high mortality due to बीमारी.
the United States ( us ) later took over the प्रोजेक्ट and took a दशक to पूरा the canal in 1914, enabling जहाजों to avoid the lengthy Cape Horn रूट around the southernmost tip of South America ( via the Drake Passage ) or to navigate the जलसन्धि of magellan.
One of the largest और सबसे difficult अभियान्त्रिकी projects ever undertaken, the Panama Canal शॉर्टकट made it संभावित लिये ships to सफर between the अटलांटिक और Pacific महासागर in हाफ the time previously जरूरी.
The shorter, faster, safer route to the us वेस्ट Coast और to राष्ट्र in and along the Pacific समंदर allowed those स्थान to become more integrated साथ the world economy.
During this time, ownership of the territory that is now the पनामा कनाल was first कोलम्बियाई, then फ्रेंच, and then American ; the United राज्य completed the construction.
the कनाल थी लिया over in 1999 by the panamanian सरकारी, as long नियोजित.
Annual ट्रैफ़िक रै risen from परिचय 1,000 जहाजों when the कनाल opened in 1914, to 14,702 vessels in 2008, the latter measuring a कुल of 309.6 लाख Panama canal/universal मापन System ( pc/ums ) tons.
By 2008, अधिक than 815,000 बरतन था passed through the canal, अनेक of them much larger than the असली planners could have envisioned ; the largest जहाजों कि can transit the canal today are called panamax.
The American Society of सिविल Engineers रै named the Panama Canal एक of the सात wonders of the आधुनिक संसार.
बेंजामिन Franklin ( अप्रैल 17, 1790 ) was एक of the Founding Fathers of the संयुक्त राज्य.
a विख्यात बहुश्रुत, Franklin was a leading author, printer, राजनैतिक theorist, राजनेता, postmaster, वैज्ञानिक, संगीतकार, आविष्कारक, satirist, नागरिक activist, statesman, और diplomat.
as a वैज्ञानिक, he was a major फिगर in the अमरीकी Enlightenment और the इतिहास of physics for उसके discoveries और theories regarding विद्युत.
He invented the lightning rod, bifocals, the फ्रैंकलिन stove, a carriage odometer, और the glass 'armonica '.
He facilitated अनेक civic संगठन, including a आग department and a university.
फ्रैंकलिन earned the शीर्षक of `` the First अमरीकी '' for उसके early और indefatigable campaigning for औपनिवेशिक एकता ; as an लेखक and प्रवक्ता in लंदन for several colonies, then as the पहला United States दूत to फ़्रांस, he exemplified the उभरते American nation.
फ्रैंकलिन थी foundational in धमक the अमरीकी ethos as a marriage of the practical values of thrift, मुश्किल work, शिक्षा, community स्पिरिट, self-governing institutions, and opposition to authoritarianism दोनो political and religious, साथ the scientific and tolerant मान of the आत्मज्ञान.
In the शब्द of historian हेनरी Steele commager, `` In a Franklin could be मिलाया the virtues of Puritanism without its दोषों, the illumination of the Enlightenment without इसके heat. ''
to वाल्टर isaacson, this makes Franklin `` the सबसे accomplished American of his age and the most influential in inventing the type of society अमेरिका would become. ''
फ्रैंकलिन, always गर्व of his working class roots, became a कामयाब समाचारपत्र एडिटर and मुद्रक in फिलाडेल्फिया, the leading city in the colonies.
He was भी partners with विलियम गोडार्ड और जोसेफ Galloway the three of whom प्रकाशित the पेन्सिलवेनिया वृत्तान्त, a समाचारपत्र कि थी ज्ञात लिये its क्रांतिकारी sentiments और criticisms of the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य in the अमरीकी colonies.
he became धनवान publishing Poor रिचर्ड 's almanack और the पेन्सिलवेनिया गजट.
Franklin gained अंतरराष्ट्रीय renown as a scientist for his प्रसिद्ध experiments in electricity और लिये his अनेक inventions, especially the बिजली लाठी.
He निभाई a प्रमुख role in establishing the University of Pennsylvania and थी elected the first president of the American Philosophical समाज.
फ्रैंकलिन became a national hero in अमेरिका when he पथप्रदर्शन the effort to have पार्लियामेंट repeal the unpopular स्टैम्प Act.
an संपन्नता राजनयिक, he थी widely admired among the फ्रेंच as अमरीकी मंत्री to पेरिस और थी a major figure in the विकास of positive franco-american relations.
लिये many years he थी the British postmaster for the colonies, जिससे enabled उसे to set up the first national संचार संजाल.
He थी active in जातियाँ affairs, औपनिवेशिक and state politics, as well as national और international affairs.
इससे 1785 to 1788, he served as राज्यपाल of Pennsylvania.
Toward the end of his जीवन, he freed his slaves और became one of the most prominent abolitionists.
His colorful जीवन और legacy of scientific और राजनैतिक achievement, और status as one of अमेरिका 's most influential Founding fathers, have देखी Franklin honored on coinage and money ; warships ; the names of many towns, counties, educational institutions, namesakes, और companies ; and more than two सदियां after his death, countless सांस्कृतिक references.
दण्ड Minds is an अमरीकी पुलिस प्रक्रियात्मक television कार्यक्रम कि premiered सितंबर 22, 2005, on सीबीएस.
The श्रेणी फ़ॉलो a team of profilers इससे the एफबीआई 's Behavioral विश्लेषण ईकाई ( bau ) आधारित in क्वांटिको, वर्जिनिया.
the BAU is भाग of the FBI नेशनल बीच for the विश्लेषण of हिंसक Crime.
The दिखाएँ differs from अनेक procedural dramas by focusing on प्रोफाइलिंग the criminal, बल्कि than the अपराधों itself.
The दिखाएँ is उत्पादित by The चिह्नित Gordon कम्पनी in संघ with सीबीएस Television studios ( originally Paramount Network टेलीविज़न तब सीबीएस Paramount संजाल टेलीविज़न ) और ABC studios ( originally Touchstone टेलीविज़न ).
सीबीएस announced in अक्तूबर 2009 कि विरासत Interactive होता develop a video game based on the show.
the game would आवश्यकता players to जाँचें crime दृश्यों लिये clues to सहायता solve murder रहस्यों.
the interactive puzzle game थी released in 2012, but did not feature any of the आवाज़ें of the show 's cast, nor थी the cast शामिल with the project.
On March 14, 2012, CBS नवीनीकृत दण्ड minds लिये an eighth ऋतु, जिससे premiered on सितंबर 26, 2012.
`` Heart-Shaped बक्सा '' is a सोंग by the अमरीकी grunge band Nirvana, written by vocalist और guitarist Kurt Cobain.
the सोंग थी released as the first सिंगल इससे the समूह 's तीसरा and फाइनल studio एल्बम, in Utero, in 1993.
it थी one of दो songs इससे the album मिश्रित by स्कॉट litt in अनुक्रम to augment the original उत्पादन by निर्माता Steve albini.
While निर्वाण 's label DGC रिकॉर्ड किया not रिलीज a physical सिंगल लिये sale in the संयुक्त States, `` Heart-Shaped बक्सा '' प्राप्त much अमरीकी radio airplay, reaching number एक on the Billboard आधुनिक चट्टान ट्रैक्स chart.
the अंतरराष्ट्रीय रिलीज of the single reached क्रमांक five on the UK singles चार्ट.
The song 's music video, directed by एंटोन corbijn, garnered नाजुक plaudits.
the orbital गति of a देह, generally a planet, a प्राकृतिक उपग्रह, an artificial उपग्रह, or a multiple स्टार, is the गति at which it orbits around the barycenter of a प्रणाली, usually around a अधिक massive body.
it can be प्रयुक्त to refer to either the mean कक्षीय speed, the average गति as it completes an कक्षा, or instantaneous कक्षीय speed, the speed at a particular पाइंट in इसके orbit.
the orbital speed at कोई स्थिति in the orbit can be computed from the अलहदा to the सेंट्रल देह at कि position, and the विशिष्ट orbital energy, which is independent of स्थिति : the kinetic उर्जा is the कुल उर्जा minus the संभावित उर्जा.
Brown राजमहल आंतरिक और Atrium
Brown राजमहल होटल is the second-oldest operating होटल in Denver, Colorado और is एक of the पहला atrium-style hotel कभी built.
it is अभी operated by कोरम होटल and Resorts.
it थी built in 1892, एक year later than the ऑक्सफोर्ड होटल.
It was नामित लिये its original मालिक, हेनरी C. भूरा, और was designed with इसके odd triangular आकार by architect फ़्रैंक edbrooke.
the होटल is स्तिथ at 321 17th St, Denver, co between 17th Street, Broadway और tremont Street/Pl in downtown Denver behind the गणतंत्र Plaza.
The main प्रवेश द्वार is on tremont गली.
DVD-Video is a उपभोक्ता video format used to store digital video on DVD discs, और is currently the dominant उपभोक्ता वीडियो format in Asia, उत्तर America, Europe, और Australia.
Discs using the DVD-Video specification require a dvd ड्राइव और an h.262/mpeg-2 Part 2 decoder ( e.g., a DVD player, or a कंप्यूटर DVD ड्राइव साथ a तन्त्र DVD player ).
Commercial dvd फिल्मों हैं encoded using a combination of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 compressed वीडियो और ऑडियो of varying formats ( प्रायः multi-channel स्वरुप as described नीचे ).
typically, the data rate लिये DVD फिल्मों सीमाएँ from 3 mbit/s to 9.5 Mbit/s, and the बिट rate is प्रायः अनुकूली.
It थी first उपलब्धियाँ लिये खुदरा around 1997.
The dvd-video specification थी created by DVD Forum और can be प्राप्त from DVD Format/Logo Licensing निगम लिये a शुल्क of $ 5,000.
the specification is नहीं सरेआम उपलब्धियाँ, because every सदस्य must sign a non-disclosure agreement.
Certain information in the dvd Book is proprietary और गोपनीय.
The nautical mile ( symbol M, nm or nmi ) is a unit of लंबाई कि is परिचय one minute of चाप of अक्षांश measured along any meridian, or about एक मिनट of arc of देशांतर at the equator.
by अंतरराष्ट्रीय अनुबंध it रै महरूम नियत at 1,852 मीटर exactly ( about 6,076 feet ).
it is a non- SI ईकाई ( although accepted for उपयोग in the International प्रणाली of इकाई by the BIPM ) प्रयुक्त especially by navigators in the shipping और विमानन उद्योग, और भी in ध्रुवीय exploration.
It is commonly प्रयुक्त in international विधि and treaties, विशेषकर regarding the हद of territorial waters.
it विकसित इससे the समुद्र मील and the सम्बन्धित geographical मील.
The nautical mile remains in use by समुद्र और air navigators विश्वव्यापी because of इसके convenience जब working with चार्ट.
सबसे nautical चार्ट use the Mercator प्रक्षेप जिनकी स्केल varies by परिचय a factor of छह इससे the equator to 80° latitude, so charts covering विशाल क्षेत्रों can नहीं उपयोग a single रैखिक scale.
The nautical मील is nearly equal to a मिनट of अक्षांश on a chart, so a अलहदा measured with a chart divider can be roughly converted to nautical मील using the चार्ट 's latitude स्केल.
Shippensburg is a बरो in कम्बरलैंड and फ्रैंकलिन काउंटी in the u.S. state of पेन्सिलवेनिया.
Settled in 1730, shippensburg झूठ in the Cumberland Valley, 41 miles ( 66 km ) west-southwest of Harrisburg, और is भाग of the Harrisburg– Carlisle महानगर सांख्यिकीय Area.
in 1900, 3,228 लोगों lived वहीँ ; in 1910, 3,457 ; and in 1940, 5,244 लोगों lived there.
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 5,492 at the 2010 census.
shippensburg थी incorporated as a बरो on January 21, 1819.
in the पास्ट, वहीँ were फर्नीचर कारखानों, इंजन और pump works, और अन्य industrial works स्तिथ within the कस्बा.
shippensburg is also the home of The beistle Company, the oldest और largest निर्माता of decorations और party goods, which sells its distinctive honeycomb पेपर सजावट विश्वव्यापी.
It is भी the location of Pague and Fegan, the oldest लगातार संचालित hardware स्टोर in Pennsylvania.
In may 2012, Volvo निर्माण उपकरण began a $ 100 लाख expansion प्रोजेक्ट to लाओ इसके अमरीकी headquarters to shippensburg.
shippensburg is also home to shippensburg University of पेन्सिलवेनिया, one of 14 विश्वविद्यालयों of the पेन्सिलवेनिया State प्रणाली of Higher शिक्षा.
वार्षिक the पिछला full सप्ताह of जुलाई, the shippensburg जातियाँ Fair is आयोजित.
begun in 1958, the मेला bills itself as पेन्सिलवेनिया 's largest bi-county fair.
The मेला शामिल agricultural exhibits, a craft show, food विक्रेता, और कार्निवल rides amongst अन्य things.
Every गर्मियाँ on the last Saturday of August, Shippensburg holds the Corn पर्व, an इवेंट that brings क्षेत्रीय artisans और विक्रेता to operate स्टैंड downtown.
The downtown is बंद to ट्रैफ़िक लिये at least 5 ब्लॉक for most of the day.
Average उपस्थिति at the पर्व is estimated at 60,000 - 70,000 each साल.
ब्लैक hairy tongue ( BHT, also termed lingua villosa nigra ) refers to a condition of the tongue जहाँ the filiform papillae elongate साथ ब्लैक or भूरा discoloration, giving a ब्लैक and hairy appearance.
The appearance may be alarming, लकिन it is a harmless कंडीशन.
Predisposing factors include धूम्रपान, xerostomia ( शुष्क मुँह ), नरम आहार, poor मौखिक hygiene और certain medications.
प्रबन्धन is by improving oral hygiene, विशेषकर scraping or brushing the tongue.
The IEEE 1394 इंटरफ़ेस is a serial बस interface मानक for high-speed संचार and isochronous real-time आंकड़ा transfer.
it was developed in the लेट 1980s और early 1990s by ठहराना, जो पुकारा it FireWire.
The 1394 इंटरफ़ेस is comparable to usb, और often those two technologies हैं considered साथ, हालांकि USB रै अधिक मार्केट share.
Apple पहला शामिल FireWire in some of इसके 1999 models, और सबसे ठहराना कंप्यूटर चूंकि the year 2000 have शामिल firewire पोर्ट, though, as of 2013, nothing beyond the 800 version ( ieee-1394b ).
the इंटरफ़ेस is भी ज्ञात by the brand i.LINK ( सोनी ), and लिंक्स ( टेक्सास यंत्र ).
आईईईई 1394 replaced parallel SCSI in अनेक अनुप्रयोग, क्युकी of lower implementation लागत and a सरलीकृत, more adaptable cabling system.
the 1394 standard also defines a backplane interface, though इस is नहीं as widely used.
IEEE 1394 is the high-definition Audio-Video संजाल गठबंधन ( HANA ) मानक connection इंटरफ़ेस लिये A/V ( audio/visual ) component संचार and कंट्रोल.
firewire is भी उपलब्धियाँ in बेतार, रेशा optic, और समाक्षीय संस्करण using the isochronous प्रोटोकॉल.
स्टीफन `` Stevie '' रे Vaughan ( October 3, 1954 – August 27, 1990 ) was an American guitarist, singer-songwriter, और record producer.
प्रायः referred to by his initials srv, vaughan is बेहतरीन known as a founding member and नेता of दोगुना Trouble.
Together with वादक क्रिस Layton और bassist Tommy शैनन, they ignited the blues revival of the 1980s.
साथ a करियर spanning seven सालो, vaughan और दोगुना Trouble consistently sold out concerts जबकि their एल्बम frequently went सुनहरा.
he was born और raised in डलास, टेक्सास, and for a छोटी period of time lived in Graham, टेक्सास.
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan, Vaughan प्रारंभ playing the guitar at आयु सात और formed अनेक bands कि occasionally performed in लोकल nightclubs.
at age 17, he dropped आउट of high school और moved to Austin to further pursue उसके musical करियर, joining समूह such as Krackerjack, the nightcrawlers, and the cobras.
in 1977, he formed ट्रिपल threat Revue, a बैंड that eventually evolved into Double Trouble और regularly performed around Austin.
in 1982, Vaughan and Double Trouble performed at the montreux Jazz Festival in Switzerland, catching the ध्यान of संगीतकारों दाउद बोवी और जैक्सन browne.
बोवी asked vaughan to play on उसके upcoming स्टुडियो album Let 's नृत्य, while Browne offered the बैंड फ़्री use of उसके personal स्टुडियो in Los एंजिल्स to record an album.
In March 1983, Vaughan और Double ट्रबल यहूद हस्ताक्षरित to Epic Records by veteran रिकार्ड निर्माता John Hammond Sr. और released उनके debut album, टेक्सास बाढ़ in June of that year.
After successful touring, the समूह released the albums, could n't स्टैंड the Weather ( 1984 ) और आत्मा to आत्मा ( 1985 ), the latter of which प्रदर्शित नई keyboardist Reese wynans.
हालांकि उसके करियर था progressed सफलतापूर्वक, Vaughan checked into a rehabilitation हॉस्पिटल in अटलांटा, Georgia to दे up a cocaine और alcohol आदत और returned to touring साथ the बैंड.
In June 1989, In Step was released और earned उन्हें a Grammy Award for बेहतरीन Contemporary ब्लूज़ प्रदर्शन.
on August 27, 1990, vaughan थी killed in a helicopter क्रैश following a प्रदर्शन in East Troy, विस्कॉन्सिन.
vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet तीव्र style was derived from a variety of musical जाति.
He was influenced by ब्लूज़ संगीतकारों including अल्बर्ट किंग, Freddie किंग, ओटिस फटाफट, और Muddy waters, और चट्टान guitarists such as Jimi हेंड्रिक्स और Lonnie mack.
His guitar playing reflected the क्लासिक blues and pentatonic तराजू.
He रै received wide नाजुक मान्यता लिये उसके गिटार playing, रैंकिंग at # 6 on रोलिंग पत्थरों सूची of `` 100 Greatest Guitarists '' in 2011.
he थी मरणोपरांत inducted into the ब्लूज़ हॉल of कीर्ति in 2000 और a memorial statue was erected in ऑस्टिन 's ऑडिटोरियम shores park.
Stevie Ray vaughan is widely considered to be one of the महानतम musicians to आइये from the state of टेक्सास.
GigE redirects here.
For the camera प्रोटोकॉल, see GigE vision.
In कंप्यूटर networking, gigabit Ethernet ( GbE or 1 gige ) is a term describing विभिन्न technologies for transmitting ईथरनेट frames at a rate of a gigabit per दूसरी ( 1,000,000,000 bits प्रति दूसरी ), as defined by the IEEE 802.3-2008 standard.
it आए into उपयोग beginning in 1999, gradually supplanting Fast ईथरनेट in wired local networks, where it performed considerably तेज़.
The केबल और equipment are बहुत समान to पिछला standards and यहूद very आम and economical by 2010.
half-duplex gigabit links कनेक्ट through hubs are allowed by the specification, but full-duplex उपयोग with switches is much more common.
Intel pro/1000 GT PCI संजाल interface card
The main components of a stamp:
1. Image
2. perforations
3. Denomination
4. देश नाम
a postage स्टैम्प is a छोटी टुकड़ा of पेपर that is purchased and displayed on an item of mail as प्रमाण of payment of postage.
typically, stamps हैं बना इससे special पेपर, with a national designation और denomination ( दाम ) on the फेस, और a gum चिपकने on the reverse side.
Postage stamps हैं purchased इससे a डाक administration or अन्य प्राधिकृत विक्रेता and are प्रयुक्त to अदा for the लागत involved in moving mail as well as अन्य कारोबार necessities ऐसे as insurance and पंजीकरण.
The stamp’s आकार is प्रायः that of a small rectangle of varying proportions, though triangles or other shapes are occasionally प्रयुक्त.
The stamp is affixed to an लिफाफा or अन्य डाक cover ( i.e., packet, बक्सा, mailing cylinder ) that the customer बधाइयां to send.
The मद is तब processed by the डाक system, where a postmark, sometimes known as a रद्दीकरण चिह्नित, is प्रायः लागू over the stamp and कवर ; this procedure marks the स्टैम्प as प्रयुक्त, जिससे रोकता its reuse.
the postmark indicates the date और point of origin of the mailing.
The mailed मद is then वितरित to the पता कि the customer has लागू to the लिफाफा or कवर.
postage stamps have facilitated the delivery of mail चूंकि the 1840s.
Before this time, ink और hand-stamps ( hence the word 'stamp ' ), usually made from लकडी or cork, यहूद प्रायः used to फ़्रैंक the mail और confirm the भुगतान of postage.
The first adhesive postage stamp, commonly referred to as the Penny ब्लैक, was issued in the संयुक्त Kingdom in 1840.
The आविष्कार of the स्टैम्प was a भाग of the attempt to सुधार और improve the डाक प्रणाली in the United Kingdom of ग्रेट Britain और Ireland, जिससे in the जल्दी 19th century थी in disarray और rife साथ corruption.
वहीँ हैं varying खाते of the आविष्कारक or आविष्कारक of the stamp.
पहले the परिचय of postage stamps, मेल in the uk थी paid लिये by the recipient, a प्रणाली that was associated साथ an irresolvable problem : the लागत of delivering मेल were नहीं recoverable by the postal service जब recipients were unable or unwilling to pay for delivered items, and प्रेषकों had no incentive to restrict the number, आकार, or weight of वस्तुएं भेजा, whether or not वे would ultimately be सशुल्क लिये.
the postage stamp resolved इस issue in a सरल और सुरुचिपूर्ण manner, with the अतिरिक्त benefit of रूम लिये an element of सौंदर्य to be introduced.
बाद related inventions include postal स्टेशनरी such as prepaid-postage लिफाफे, post ताश, lettercards, aerogrammes और wrappers, postage मीटर, and, अधिक recently, specialty boxes and envelopes provided free to the ग्राहक by the u.S. postal सेवा लिये priority or express mailing.
The postage स्टैम्प afforded convenience लिये दोनो the मेलर और डाक officials, more efficiently recovered लागत for the postal service, और ultimately resulted in a बेहतर, faster डाक प्रणाली.
साथ the conveniences stamps offered, उनके उपयोग resulted in greatly increased mailings दौरान the 19th and 20th centuries.
Postage stamps दौरान इस era were the सबसे लोकप्रिय way of paying for मेल, लकिन by the समाप्त of the 20th सदी were rapidly होने आत by the use of metered postage and बल्क mailing by व्यवसायों. )
The वही परिणाम with respect to संचार by private parties occurred over the last दशक of the 20th सदी and the पहला दशक of the 21st due to declining cost of long distance telephone संचार और the विकास और विस्फोटक स्प्रेड of electronic mailing ( `` e-mail '' via the Internet ) and bill paying systems था.
as postage stamps साथ their engraved imagery began to appear on a फैली basis, historians और collectors began to take सूचना.
The पढ़ाई of postage stamps and उनके use is referred to as philately.
स्टैम्प collecting can be दोनो a शौक and a form of ऐतिहासिक पढ़ाई और सन्दर्भ, as government-issued postage stamps और उनके mailing प्रणालियों have सदा been शामिल with the history of nations.
the विश्वविद्यालयों of अलबामा at बर्मिंघम ( uab ) is a public विश्वविद्यालयों in Birmingham in the U.S. state of अलबामा.
Developing from an एक्सटेंशन बीच स्थापित in 1936, the संस्था became an autonomous संस्था in 1969 and is आज एक of three institutions in the विश्वविद्यालयों of अलबामा System.
uab offers over 140 programs of study in 12 academic divisions leading to bachelor 's, master 's, doctoral, and professional डिग्री in the सोशल and behavioral sciences, the liberal arts, कारोबार, शिक्षा, engineering, and health-related fields such as medicine, dentistry, optometry, nursing, और public health.
the स्कूल is highly प्रसिद्ध for इसके medical research और प्राकृतिक sciences programs.
the uab स्वास्थ्य प्रणाली, एक of the largest अकादमिक चिकित्सा centers in the संयुक्त राज्य, is affiliated with the university.
UAB Hospital प्रायोजकों रेसिडेंसी programs in विभिन्न medical specialties, including internal आयुर्विज्ञान, न्यूरोलॉजी, सर्जरी, radiology, and anesthesiology.
uab हॉस्पिटल is the only ACS सत्यापित Level I trauma बीच in Alabama, as rated by the American कॉलेज of Surgeons Trauma Program.
uab is the state 's largest नियोक्ता, with more than 18,000 faculty and staff और over 53,000 कार्य at the विश्वविद्यालयों और in the स्वास्थ्य system.
an estimated 10 percent of the jobs in the Birmingham-Hoover Metropolitan क्षेत्रफल और 1 in 33 कार्य in the राज्य of अलबामा are directly or indirectly सम्बन्धित to uab.
The विश्वविद्यालयों 's overall सालाना आर्थिक impact was estimated to be $ 4.6 billion in 2010.
In the पतन of 2012, the विश्वविद्यालयों of Alabama at बर्मिंघम नामांकित 17,999 students from अधिक than 110 countries, सहित 1,605 freshmen.
वहीँ are योजनाएँ to commence with an `` aggressive '' विकास in नामांकन at UAB.
the वर्तमान uab President is dr. रे L. watts.
टोफू, also पुकारा bean दही, is a food made by coagulating सोया juice और तब दबाने the resulting curds into नरम white blocks.
It is a घटक in many East एशियाई and southeast Asian व्यंजन.
There हैं अनेक अलग किस्में of टोफू, including भैस टोफू and tofu कि has महरूम processed in कुछ way.
Tofu has a हल्का स्वाद और can be प्रयुक्त in savory and sweet dishes.
It is often seasoned or marinated to सूट the डिश.
Tofu originated in प्राचीन चीन some 2,000 years ago.
Chinese legend ascribes इसके आविष्कार to प्रिंस लियू An ( चाइनीज : 劉安 liú Ān, 179–122 bc ).
Tofu और its उत्पादन technique यहूद introduced into Korea and then Japan during the Nara काल.
it spread into other parts of ईस्ट एशिया as well.
This स्प्रेड likely coincided साथ the spread of buddhism because it is an important source of प्रोटीन in the शाकाहारी diet of East एशियाई Buddhism.
Li shizhen in the Ming Dynasty वर्णित a method of making tofu in bencao Gangmu.
टोफू has a low कैलोरी count, अपेक्षाकृत large amounts of प्रोटीन, and छोटी fat.
it is ऊँची in iron and depending on the coagulant used in निर्माण, may also be high in calcium and/or magnesium.
Bubbles ( born 1983 ) is a common चिंपैंजी, ज्ञात for होने the one-time pet of अमरीकी रिकॉर्डिंग artist Michael Jackson, जो bought the primate from a टेक्सास research facility in the जल्दी 1980s.
The animal थी a बारंबार सफर companion to the सिंगर, जिनकी अनुलग्नक to the एनिमल led to media mockery और, among अन्य कारकों, to a public perception of जैक्सन as an eccentric.
During the Bad World दौरे, for उदाहरण, Jackson brought Bubbles with him to जापानी, where वे both पिया tea साथ the mayor of ओसाका.
Bubbles was initially kept at the Jackson family 's home in encino, Los एंजिल्स, but थी स्थानांतरित to Neverland Ranch in 1988.
There, he slept in a crib in जैक्सन 's bedroom, used the singer 's प्रसाधन, and ate candy in the Neverland फिल्म theater.
in 2003 the public सीखे that, like सब खिलाते chimpanzees, Bubbles था matured into a विशाल and aggressive वयस्क chimp unsuitable as a साथी animal.
he was भेजा to a कैलिफ़ोर्निया animal प्रशिक्षक, जहाँ he थी reported to have attempted आत्महत्या.
When the प्रशिक्षक shut bas his operation in 2004, Bubbles थी स्थानांतरित to the Center for ग्रेट apes, a sanctuary in wauchula, Florida, where he रै जिया चूंकि 2005.
Muse are an अंग्रेज़ी चट्टान band from Teignmouth, देवों, जिससे formed in 1994.
The बैंड consists of school मित्रों Matthew Bellamy ( lead vocals, lead guitar, piano, keyboards, keytar ), Christopher wolstenholme ( bass, vocals, keyboards, लय गिटार, harmonica ) and Dominic Howard ( drums, percussion, synthesisers, sampling ).
Since the रिलीज of their 2006 album Black छेद और खुलासे, keyboardist और percussionist Morgan Nicholls रै performed live साथ the band.
Muse are known लिये their energetic और extravagant सजीव प्रदर्शन and their संलयन of many म्यूज़िक genres, including space चट्टान, progressive चट्टान, वैकल्पिक rock, भारी metal, शास्त्रीय म्यूज़िक और इलेक्ट्रॉनिका.
चिंतन have released छह studio एल्बम : showbiz ( 1999 ), उत्पत्ति of Symmetry ( 2001 ), Absolution ( 2003 ), Black छेद और Revelations ( 2006 ), The प्रतिरोध ( 2009 ) और The 2nd Law ( 2012 ).
वे have also जारी three live एल्बम, hullabaloo साउंडट्रैक ( 2002 ), जिससे is also a संकलन of b-sides, absolution Tour ( 2005 ), and haarp ( 2008 ), which documents the बैंड 's performances at वेम्बली Stadium in 2007.
ब्लैक छेद and खुलासे अर्जित the band a पारा पुरस्कार नामांकन and a तीसरा प्लेस समाप्त in the NME Albums of the साल सूची for 2006.
चिंतन have also जीती a संग्रहण of music पुरस्कार throughout उनके history, सहित five MTV Europe Music पुरस्कार, six Q Awards, आठ NME Awards, two ब्रिट पुरस्कार —winning `` बेहतरीन British Live अधिनियम '' twice, an एमटीवी वीडियो Music Award, four Kerrang !
Awards and an American म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार.
They यहूद भी मनोनीत for पाँच ग्रैमी Awards, of which they जीती बेहतरीन Rock एल्बम, लिये उनके पांचवां studio album the प्रतिरोध ( 2009 ).
Muse have बेची over 15 लाख albums विश्वव्यापी.
Bloemfontein (, ; Dutch लिये `` fountain of flowers '' ) is the capital city of the Free State प्रांत of दक्षिण Africa ; and, as the judicial capital of the nation, one of दक्षिण Africa 's तीन नेशनल राजधानी – the other दो होने Cape Town, the विधान capital, and Pretoria, the प्रशासनिक capital.
bloemfontein is popularly and poetically known as `` the city of गुलाब ``, owing to the प्रचुरता of these पुष्प और the annual rose पर्व आयोजित there.
The city 's sesotho नाम is mangaung, अर्थ `` प्लेस of cheetahs `` and it रै been शामिल in the Mangaung Local Municipality चूंकि 2000.
bloemfontein is situated on dry घासभूमि at, at an altitude of above समुद्र level.
The नगर is home to 369,568 निवासियों, जबकि the Mangaung Local नगरपालिका has a जनसांख्यिकी of 645,455.
Where Do We आइये इससे ?
What Are We ?
Where हैं we Going ?
एक of post-impressionist पॉल gauguin 's सबसे प्रसिद्ध paintings.
The अर्थ of life is a philosophical question concerning the significance of जीवन or अस्तित्व in सामान्य.
it can also be expressed in अलग forms, ऐसे as `` Why हैं we here ? ``, `` कया is जीवन all परिचय ? ``, और `` What is the purpose of existence ? ''
it रै been the विषय of much philosophical, scientific, and theological speculation throughout history.
There have महरूम a विशाल क्रमांक of प्रस्तावित answers to ये questions इससे अनेक अलग cultural and वैचारिक backgrounds.
The meaning of life is in the philosophical और religious conceptions of अस्तित्व, सोशल ties, चेतना, and happiness, and सीमायें on अनेक other issues, such as सांकेतिक अर्थ, ontology, मान, purpose, ethics, good और दुष्ट, free will, the existence of एक or अनेक Gods, conceptions of God, the आत्मा, and the आफ्टरलाइफ.
वैज्ञानिक योगदान फ़ोकस primarily on describing सम्बन्धित अनुभवजन्य facts परिचय the universe, exploring the कॉन्टेक्स्ट और पैरामीटर्स concerning the 'how ' of जीवन.
Science भी अध्ययन and can provide सुझाव for the pursuit of well-being और a related धारणा of morality.
an alternative, humanistic दृष्टिकोण poses the सवाल `` What is the meaning of my life ? ''
The मान of the सवाल pertaining to the purpose of जीवन may coincide साथ the achievement of ultimate वास्तविकता, or a अहसास of oneness, or भी a अहसास of sacredness.
परिवार guy निर्माता सेठ MacFarlane भी provides the voices of पीटर griffin, stewie griffin, ब्रायन griffin, और Glenn Quagmire.
Family guy is an American animated sitcom कि features पाँच main voice actors, और numerous regular डाल and पुनरावर्ती अतिथि stars.
The प्रिंसिपल आवाज़ cast consists of दिखाएँ निर्माता सेठ macfarlane, एलेक्स borstein, सेठ ग्रीन, Mila kunis ( जो replaced Lacey Chabert after the पहला season ) and Mike हेनरी और now, the नई actor Beau Osborne.
पुनरावर्ती आवाज़ actors include Patrick warburton, आदम वेस्ट, John G. Brennan, Nicole Sullivan and जेनिफर Tilly, और repeat guest stars include Phyllis diller, Charles Durning, Rush limbaugh, और फिल LaMarr.
अनेक cast members provide voices for अनेक characters.
The voice actors, in portraying the various अक्षर personalities on the show, draw प्रेरणा from हस्तियाँ and पॉप संस्कृति.
परिवार guy वर्ण have been played by अधिक than एक कर्ता, बाद सदस्यों of the show बाएँ the series or had conflicting obligations.
Kunis थी मनोनीत for an Annie Award for voicing Meg Griffin in the ऋतु 5 episode `` मुश्किल विधिक `` and macfarlane रै also जीती an Emmy पुरस्कार लिये Outstanding Voice-Over Performance और an एनी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Voice Acting in an एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न उत्पादन, though no other डाल member रै जीती an पुरस्कार for their कार्य on the series.
1911 Illustration by एडमंड dulac
`` the Princess and the मटर '' ( ; शाब्दिक translation : `` the राजकुमारी on the Pea '' ) is a literary fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen about a यंग स्त्री जिनकी royal identity is स्थापित by a test of उसके physical sensitivity.
The टेल थी पहला प्रकाशित with तीन others by Andersen in an inexpensive पुस्तिका on 8 May 1835 in Copenhagen by c.a. Reitzel.
Andersen had सुना the स्टोरी as a child, और it likely रै इसके source in लोक सामग्री, possibly originating इससे Sweden as it is unknown in the डैनिश मौखिक tradition.
Neither `` the राजकुमारी और the मटर '' nor Andersen 's other किस्से of 1835 यहूद well प्राप्त by Danish आलोचकों, who disliked their कैज़ुअल, chatty style, and उनके lack of नैतिकता.
In 1959 `` the राजकुमारी और the मटर '' was adapted to the musical stage in a उत्पादन called एकबार Upon a गद्दा starring Carol Burnett.
जर्मनी Americans ( ) are नागरिकों of the संयुक्त States who were either born in Germany or हैं of German ancestry.
वे comprise about 50 million people, making उन्हें the largest ancestry group ahead of Irish अमेरिकी, अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी और अंग्रेज़ी अमेरिकी.
वे comprise परिचय 1/3 of the German diaspora all over the world.
None of the German states had New World colonies.
Not until the 1670s किया the first significant groups of जर्मनी immigrants arrive in the अंग्रेजों colonies, settling primarily in नई York और पेन्सिलवेनिया.
Immigration continued in very large numbers during the 19th सदी, with कुछ आठ million arrivals from Germany.
वे were pulled by the attractions of land और धार्मिक स्वतंत्रता, और pushed आउट of Europe by shortages of land and धार्मिक or राजनैतिक oppression.
अनेक arrived seeking religious or political स्वतंत्रता, अन्य लिये economic opportunities greater than those in यूरोपीय, और others बस लिये the मौका to start fresh in the New World.
the arrivals पहले 1850 यहूद mostly farmers who sought आउट the सबसे productive जमीन, where उनके intensive खेती techniques होता अदा off.
बाद 1840, many came to शहरों, where `` germania '' —german-speaking districts—soon emerged.
जर्मनी अमेरिकी established the पहला kindergartens in the United राज्य, introduced the क्रिसमस पेड़ परंपरा, and originated लोकप्रिय American foods ऐसे as hot कुत्तो and hamburgers.
German अमरीकी जश्न हैं आयोजित throughout the country, एक of the सबसे well-known होने the german-american steuben Parade in नई यॉर्क City, held प्रत्येक तीसरा शनिवार in सितंबर.
There are भी प्रमुख सालाना events in Chicago, सिनसिनाटी, मिल्वौकी, Pittsburgh, St. Louis और other cities.
Like many अन्य आप्रवासियों कि आए to the संयुक्त राज्य, an overwhelming क्रमांक of people of जर्मनी or आंशिक जर्मनी descent have essentially become Americanized.
the प्रस्तावना to the संयुक्त States संविधान is a ब्रैड introductory बयान of the Constitution 's fundamental उद्देश्य and guiding principles.
it राज्य in general शर्तें, and न्यायालयों have referred to it as reliable evidence of, the founding fathers ' intentions regarding the Constitution 's अर्थ और what they hoped the Constitution would achieve as it pertains to सब of the people of the संयुक्त राज्य.
as the phrase, `` we the लोगों '' suggests कि the new सरकारी originates from the लोगों of the संयुक्त States और it सेट into motion a सवाल as it pertains to that विशाल जनसांख्यिकी concerning the व्यक्तिगत rights और समता among सब लोगों ; this can be देखी most broadly in the divide between republicanism और सोशल democracy.
The history of the अंतरजाल began with the विकास of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कंप्यूटर in the 1950s.
the public was first introduced to the concepts that होता सीसे to the अंतरजाल when a message थी sent over the ARPANet from computer विज्ञान Professor Leonard Kleinrock 's laboratory at विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, Los एंजिल्स ( ucla ), after the दूसरी टुकड़ा of network equipment was संस्थापित at Stanford शोध संस्थान ( श्री ).
Packet switched संजाल ऐसे as arpanet, चिह्नित I at NPL in the UK, cyclades, मेरिट संजाल, Tymnet, और telenet, यहूद developed in the लेट 1960s and early 1970s using a variety of protocols.
The arpanet in particular led to the development of protocols लिये internetworking, in जिससे अनेक पृथक संजाल could be joined साथ into a संजाल of networks.
in 1982, the Internet प्रोटोकॉल suite ( TCP/IP ) was मानकीकृत, और consequently, the concept of a world-wide network of interconnected TCP/IP networks, पुकारा the Internet, थी introduced.
अभिगम to the ARPANET थी expanded in 1981 when the नेशनल Science न्यास ( NSF ) developed the कंप्यूटर विज्ञान Network ( csnet ) and again in 1986 जब NSFNET provided access to supercomputer sites in the संयुक्त राज्य इससे शोध and शिक्षा संगठन.
वाणिज्यिक अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाताओं ( ISPs ) began to emerge in the late 1980s और जल्दी 1990s.
The ARPANET थी decommissioned in 1990.
the अंतरजाल was commercialized in 1995 when NSFNET was decommissioned, removing the last प्रतिबंध on the use of the अंतरजाल to carry वाणिज्यिक traffic.
चूंकि the mid-1990s, the Internet has had a revolutionary प्रभाव on संस्कृति और commerce, सहित the वृद्धि of near-instant संचार by electronic mail, instant messaging, आवाज़ over Internet प्रोटोकॉल ( VoIP ) `` फोन काल्स '', two-way इंटरैक्टिव वीडियो calls, and the संसार Wide वेब साथ its discussion forums, blogs, social नेटवर्किंग, और ऑनलाइन खरीदारी साइट.
the research and education community continues to develop और उपयोग उन्नत networks ऐसे as nsf 's very high गति रीढ़ संजाल सेवा ( vbns ), Internet2, and National LambdaRail.
increasing amounts of data हैं transmitted at higher और higher speeds over रेशा ऑप्टिक networks operating at 1-gbit/s, 10-gbit/s, or अधिक.
the अंतरजाल 's takeover over the global संचार landscape was almost instant in ऐतिहासिक शर्तें : it only communicated 1 % of the सूचना flowing through two-way telecommunications संजाल in the साल 1993, already 51 % by 2000, और more than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007.
आज the Internet continues to grow, driven by कभी greater amounts of ऑनलाइन information, commerce, entertainment, और social networking.
दक्षिणपश्चिम Airlines co. ( ) is a major u.S. airline and the world 's largest low-cost वाहक, headquartered in डलास, टेक्सास.
It was established in 1967 and adopted इसके वर्तमान name in 1971.
The airline रै more than 46,000 employees और operates अधिक than 3,400 फ़्लाइट प्रति day.
as of जून 5, 2011, it carries the सबसे घरेलू passengers of कोई U.S. airline.
As of April 2013, दक्षिणपश्चिम एयरलाइंस has अनुसूचित service to 84 destinations in 41 states और Puerto रीको.
दक्षिणपश्चिम Airlines रै solely operated बोइंग 737s, मगर लिये a few years in the 1970s और 1980s, when it operated Boeing 727s.
As of August 2012, Southwest is the largest ऑपरेटर of the 737 विश्वव्यापी with over 550 in service, each ऑपरेटिंग an average of छह फ़्लाइट per day.
in may 2011, the airline acquired airtran एयरवेज़, साथ संयोजन of the वाहक अपेक्षित to be complete by 2014.
on कूच 1, 2012, the company was जारी a सिंगल operating प्रमाणपत्र, technically becoming एक airline.
रोलिंग Rock is a 4.6 % abv pale lager launched in 1939 by the Latrobe brewing Company.
Although संस्थापित as a local बियर in पश्चिमी पेन्सिलवेनिया, it was marketed aggressively and eventually became a national उत्पाद.
The brand was sold to Anheuser-Busch of st. Louis, Missouri, in mid 2006, जिससे transferred brewing परिचालन to New जर्सी.
Benedict xvi (,, ; born Joseph aloisius ratzinger on 16 April 1927 ) is Pope emeritus of the कैथोलिक Church.
he served as Pope from 2005 to 2013.
In कि स्थिति, he थी both the नेता of the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर और sovereign of the वेटिकन नगर State.
बेनेडिक्ट was elected on 19 अप्रैल 2005 in a papal conclave, celebrated his Papal उद्घाटन Mass on 24 अप्रैल 2005, and took कब्ज़ा of उसके गिरजाघर, the archbasilica of St. जॉन Lateran, on 7 may 2005.
Ordained as a priest in 1951 in उसके native Bavaria, Ratzinger established himself as a highly regarded university theologian by the लेट 1950s and was नियुक्त a full प्राध्यापक in 1958.
After a long career as an academic, serving as a प्राध्यापक of theology at अनेक German universities—the last being the विश्वविद्यालयों of regensburg, where he served as वाइस अध्यक्ष of the university in 1976 and 1977—he was appointed Archbishop of म्यूनिख और freising and cardinal by Pope पॉल vi in 1977, an असामान्य promotion लिये किसी with little लुभावने experience.
in 1981, he settled in रोम when he became Prefect of the सभा for the Doctrine of the Faith, one of the most महत्वपूर्ण dicasteries of the रोमन Curia.
इससे 2002 until उसके election as pope, he was भी डीन of the कॉलेज of कार्डिनल्स, and as such, the प्राइमस इंटर pares among the कार्डिनल्स.
Prior to बनने पोप, he थी `` a major फिगर on the वेटिकन stage for a क्वार्टर of a सदी '' as `` one of the सबसे respected, influential और विवादास्पद members of the College of Cardinals '' ; he had an influence `` दूसरी to none when it आए to setting गिरिजाघर प्राथमिकताएं और directions '' as one of Pope जॉन Paul II 's closest confidants.
he was originally a उदार theologian, but अपनाया conservative views after 1968.
उसके सफल कृतियाँ बचाव traditional कैथोलिक doctrine and मान.
During उसके papacy, Benedict xvi advocated a return to fundamental ईसाई values to counter the increased secularisation of many पश्चिमी countries.
he views relativism 's denial of उद्देश्य सच्चाई, और the denial of moral truths in particular, as the central problem of the 21st century.
He सिखाया the importance of both the कैथोलिक Church और an understanding of परमेश्वर 's redemptive प्रेम.
पोप बेनेडिक्ट also revived a number of परंपराओं सहित elevating the Tridentine द्रव्यमान to a more prominent position.
he renewed the relationship between the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर और आर्ट, viewing the उपयोग of beauty as a path to the पवित्र, प्रचारित the उपयोग of लैटिन, और reintroduced परंपरागत papal garments, for which reason he was पुकारा `` the pope of aesthetics ''.
he रै been described as `` the प्रमुख बौद्धिक force in the गिरिजाघर '' since the mid-1980s.
Several of पोप Benedict 's students इससे उसके अकादमिक career are भी prominent churchmen आज and confidantes of उसे, notably क्रिस्टोफ Schönborn.
On 11 फ़रवरी 2013, Pope बेनेडिक्ट announced उसके resignation in a speech in Latin पहले the कार्डिनल्स, citing a `` कमी of strength of mind and देह '' due to उसके उन्नत age.
His resignation became effective on 28 फ़रवरी 2013.
He is the first pope to resign चूंकि Pope ग्रेगरी बारहवीं in 1415, and the पहला to do so on उसके अपना initiative चूंकि पोप celestine v in 1294.
as पोप emeritus, Benedict retains the style of His Holiness, और the शीर्षक of Pope, और will continue to dress in the papal colour of श्वेत.
He थी succeeded by पोप Francis on 13 कूच 2013, और he स्थानांतरित into the newly संवर Mater ecclesiae मठ for his retirement on 2 May 2013..
जेब stereoscope साथ original परीक्षण चित्र.
Used by सैन्य to जाँचें stereoscopic pairs of aerial छायाचित्र.
View of बोस्टन, c. 1860 ; an जल्दी stereoscopic कार्ड for viewing a झाँकी from nature
kaiser-panorama consisted of a multi-station देखने apparatus and sets of stereo slides.
Patented by A. fuhrmann around 1890.
Company of महिलाओं watching stereoscopic छायाचित्र, पेंटिंग by Jacob spoel, पहले 1868.
A very early चित्रण of लोगों using a stereoscope.
Stereoscopy ( also called stereoscopics or 3D इमेजिंग ) is a तकनीक for creating or बढ़ाना the भ्रम of गहराई in an चित्र by अर्थात् of stereopsis लिये binocular vision.
the word stereoscopy derives from the Greek `` στερεός '' ( stereos ), `` कड़, solid '' + `` σκοπέω '' ( skopeō ), `` to look '', `` to see ''.
सबसे stereoscopic methods उपस्थित दो ऑफसेट images separately to the बाएँ and right नजर of the दर्शक.
ये two-dimensional बिंब are तब combined in the दिमाग to दे the बोध of 3d depth.
इस technique is विशिष्ट from 3d प्रदर्शक कि प्रदर्शक an चित्र in three full dimensions, allowing the observer to बढ़ाएँ सूचना about the 3-dimensional वस्तुएँ होने प्रदर्शित by head और eye movements.
John एडम्स ( October 30, 1735 ( o.s. October 19, 1735 ) – July 4, 1826 ) थी the दूसरी president of the संयुक्त States ( 1797–1801 ), having earlier परोसा as the first vice अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States.
An American founding Father, he थी a statesman, diplomat, and a leading advocate of अमरीकी स्वतंत्रता इससे ग्रेट ब्रिटेन.
खूब शिक्षित, he थी an Enlightenment राजनैतिक theorist who प्रचारित republicanism and लिखा prolifically about his प्रायः seminal विचार, दोनो in प्रकाशित works and in letters to his wife and key adviser अबीगैल as well as to अन्य founding fathers.
Adams आए to prominence in the जल्दी stages of the अमरीकी क्रान्ति.
A lawyer and public figure in बोस्टन, as a delegate इससे मैसाचुसेट्स to the Continental Congress, he played a अग्रणी भूमिका in persuading कॉंग्रेस to घोषित स्वतंत्रता.
He assisted Thomas Jefferson in drafting the Declaration of Independence in 1776, and was इसके primary advocate in the Congress.
बाद, as a diplomat in यूरोपीय, he helped negotiate the eventual peace सन्धि with Great Britain, और थी जिम्मेदार लिये obtaining vital governmental loans from Amsterdam बैंकर्स.
A राजनैतिक theorist and इतिहासकार, Adams largely wrote the मैसाचुसेट्स संविधान in 1780, which together with his earlier Thoughts on सरकारी, बहकावे अमरीकी political thought.
One of his greatest भूमिकाएँ थी as a न्यायधीश of अक्षर : in 1775, he nominated George Washington to be commander-in-chief, and 25 सालो बाद मनोनीत John मार्शल to be मुख्य Justice of the United States.
एडम्स ' revolutionary credentials secured उसे दो शर्तें as George Washington 's वाइस अध्यक्ष और उसके अपना चुनाव in 1796 as the दूसरी अध्यक्ष.
दौरान उसके one term, he encountered ferocious हमले by the Jeffersonian republicans, as खूब as the प्रबल गुट in his अपना federalist Party led by his bitter enemy सिकंदर Hamilton.
Adams हस्ताक्षरित the विवादास्पद एलियन and Sedition अधिनियमों, and निर्मित up the army और नेवी विशेषकर in the face of an undeclared नवल युद्ध ( called the `` quasi-war `` ) साथ फ़्रांस, 1798–1800.
the major accomplishment of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी थी उसके peaceful रेज़ोल्यूशन of the विरोध in the फेस of Hamilton 's विपक्ष.
in 1800, Adams थी defeated for re-election by थामस Jefferson और retired to Massachusetts.
He बाद resumed उसके friendship साथ जेफरसन.
He and उसके बीवी, Abigail एडम्स, संस्थापित an संपन्नता family लकीर of राजनेता, diplomats, and इतिहासकारों अभी referred to as the Adams political family.
Adams थी the पिता of जॉन क्विंसी Adams, the छठे अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य.
उसके उपलब्धियाँ have received वृहद मान्यता in आधुनिक times, though उसके योगदान were नहीं initially as मनाये as those of other Founders.
एडम्स थी the पहला u.S. अध्यक्ष to reside in the भवन कि आखिरकार became ज्ञात as the श्वेत हाउस.
The United राज्य ten-dollar विधेयक ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of संयुक्त States करेंसी.
the first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury ( 1789–95 ), सिकंदर Hamilton, is फिलहाल featured on the obverse of the विधेयक, while the U.S. राजकोष भवन is featured on the रिवर्स.
( Hamilton is एक of two non-presidents प्रदर्शित on फिलहाल issued U.S. बिल्स.
the other is बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन, on the $ 100 bill.
हैमिल्टन is एक of only चार people प्रदर्शित on u.S. paper currency ( 1861 to the present ) who was नहीं born in the continental United States, as he was from the West Indies.
the अन्य are : अल्बर्ट Gallatin, स्विट्ज़रलैंड ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ; जार्ज meade, स्पेन ( $ 1,000 1890/91 राजकोष Note ) ; and Robert मॉरिस, इंग्लैण्ड ( $ 1,000 1862/63 विधिक टेंडर ; $ 10 1878/80 Silver प्रमाणपत्र ).
In जोड, Kamehameha i, appears on the 2008 Hawaii state क्वार्टर. )
All $ 10 बिल्स जारी आज हैं संघीय Reserve टीप.
the Bureau of नक्काशी और मुद्रण says the average life of a $ 10 विधेयक in परिसंचरण is 18 महीने पहले it is replaced due to पहनें.
Approximately 6 % of all us banknotes मुद्रित in 2009 यहूद $ 10 बिल्स.
टेन डालर बिल्स are delivered by Federal आरक्षित Banks in yellow straps.
The सोर्स of the face on the $ 10 विधेयक is John trumbull ’s 1805 portrait of हैमिल्टन कि belongs to the portrait संग्रहण of New York नगर Hall.
The $ 10 विधेयक is the तभी u.S. paper करेंसी in परिसंचरण in जिससे the portrait faces to the left ( the $ 100,000 bill featured a पोर्ट्रेट of Woodrow विल्सन facing to the बाएँ, but was used only लिये intra-government ट्रांजेक्शन ).
a सवार on a यामाहा Waverunner xl performing a high-speed फेरे.
A jetboat is a नाव propelled by a jet of water ejected from the वापस of the craft.
नापसंद a powerboat or motorboat कि uses a propeller in the water नीचे or पीछे the boat, a jetboat draws the water इससे under the नाव into a पंप inside the नाव, तब expels it through a nozzle at the stern.
Jetboats यहूद originally designed by सर विलियम हैमिल्टन ( who developed a waterjet in 1954 ) for आपरेशन in the fast-flowing and shallow नदियाँ of नई Zealand, specifically to overcome the problem of propellers striking रॉक्स in ऐसे waters.
Previous attempts at waterjet नोदन had very short lifetimes, generally due to the अकुशल design of the इकाई और the fact that वे offered few advantages over conventional propellers.
Unlike ये पिछला waterjet developments, ऐसे as Campini 's and the hanley Hydrojet, हैमिल्टन था a specific need for a नोदन प्रणाली to operate in very-shallow water, और the waterjet proved to be the आदर्श समाधान.
From this, the popularity of the जेट unit और jetboat increased rapidly.
through further developments, it थी found the waterjet offered several अन्य लाभ over propellers for a wide दायरा of vessel types, and as such, waterjets are used widely today for अनेक high-speed vessels, सहित यात्री ferries, rescue शिल्प, patrol boats और offshore सप्लाई बरतन.
Jetboats हैं highly maneuverable, and अनेक can, इससे पूरा speed, be reversed and brought to a stop within little more than their own length, in a maneuver known as a `` क्रैश stop ''.
the खूब ज्ञात Hamilton फेरे or `` जेट स्पिन '' is a high-speed maneuvre where the नाव 's engine throttle is cut, the परिचालन is turned sharply और the throttle खोली again, causing the boat to spin जल्दी around साथ a विशाल spray of water.
There is no engineering सीमा to the size of jetboats, हालांकि the वैध of उनके use depends a लॉट on the प्रकार of application.
क्लासिक prop-drives हैं generally more कुशल and economical at कम speeds, up to परिचय, but as नाव गति increases परे इस, the अतिरिक्त hull resistance generated by struts, rudders, shafts ( etc. ) means waterjets are अधिक कुशल in the 20-50 गांठ range ( up to ).
Also, in परिस्थितियों साथ very large propellers turning at slow speeds ( ऐसे as tug boats ), the समतुल्य size waterjet would be too बिग to be practical.
For ये कारण, the विशाल majority of waterjet units are installed in high-speed vessels and in particular situations जहाँ shallow draught, maneuverability, and लोड flexibility हैं main concerns.
the biggest jet-driven बरतन हैं मिला in सैन्य use or the high-speed passenger/car ferry उद्योग.
South Africa 's s ( लगभग long ) हैं the biggest jet-propelled vessels so दूर.
भी these German-built बरतन are सक्षम of performing `` crash stops ''.
Uveitis is broadly defined as सूजन of the uvea.
The uvea consists of the मध्य, pigmented, vascular structures of the eye और includes the iris, ciliary देह, and choroid.
uveitis requires an urgent referral और thorough examination by an ophthalmologist or optometrist साथ साथ urgent treatment to control the सूजन.
eric `` e. ''
मर्फी is a fictional character on the comedy-drama television series अनुगामी.
He is played by Kevin connolly.
The Shining is a 1980 psychological horror फिल्मी produced and directed by Stanley Kubrick, co-written with novelist डायने जॉनसन, और अभिनीत जोकर Nicholson, शेली Duvall, scatman crothers, and डैनी लॉयड.
The फिल्मी is आधारित on the Stephen किंग अनोखा the जगमगाता.
a लेखक, जोकर torrance, takes a जॉब as an off-season caretaker at an पृथक hotel.
His young बेटे possesses psychic abilities और is समर्थ to देखिए things from the past and future, ऐसे as the ghosts who inhabit the होटल.
जल्द after settling in, the परिवार is trapped in the होटल by a snowstorm, and Jack धीरे becomes बहकावे by a supernatural उपस्थिति ; he descends into दीवानगी और attempts to murder his बीवी and बेटे.
Unlike previous kubrick films, जिससे विकसित an दर्शक धीरे by भवन on word-of-mouth, The जगमगाता थी released as a mass-market फिल्मी, खोलने at पहला in बस दो शहरों on मेमोरियल Day, then देशभर a month बाद.
Although आरंभिक response to the फिल्मी was मिश्रित, बाद नाजुक assessment थी more अनुकूल and it is now viewed as a classic of the horror genre.
Film director मार्टिन Scorsese, writing in The रोज़ जानवर, क्रमित it as one of the 11 scariest हॉरर फिल्मों of सब समय.
फिल्मी आलोचकों, फिल्मी students, और kubrick 's निर्माता, Jan Harlan, have remarked on the विशाल influence the फिल्मी has had on लोकप्रिय संस्कृति.
The initial European release of The Shining थी 25 मिनट्स shorter than the अमरीकी version, हासिल by निकालना most of the दृश्यों लेने प्लेस outside the environs of the hotel.
Patio Cola बोतल
Patio Diet Cola was a ब्रांड of diet soda introduced by पेप्सी in 1963.
It थी created in response to Diet Rite Cola, which was the first diet cola on the मार्केट.
Fitness प्रवर्तक डिब्बी Drake थी आँगन आहार Cola 's spokesperson.
In 1964, आँगन released orange, अंगूर, और रूट beer flavors.
इस स्वाद line थी नहीं meant to compete साथ ब्रांड्स like Orange Crush, लकिन बल्कि fill आउट the लकीर.
Patio sodas यहूद available in the cold-bottle मार्केट : grocery और mom-and-pop stores.
विज्ञापन लिये आँगन was comparatively scarce ; at the time, bottlers were regionally franchised, और सम्बन्धित advertising थी necessarily लोकल.
in 1964, आँगन diet cola became Diet पेप्सी.
the newly ब्रांडेड आहार सोडा थी advertised alongside पेप्सी with the टैगलाइन `` Pepsi either way '', जिससे replaced the स्लोगन `` dances साथ स्वाद ''.
The छोटी life स्पैन of Patio आहार कोला makes it a great जोड लिये bottle collectors.
सबसे of the remaining Patio लकीर of जायका यहूद phased out by the early 1970s, जबकि a few बच until the मिड 70s
अवसंरचना is basic physical and organizational structures needed for the आपरेशन of a समाज or एंटरप्राइज़, or the सेवाएं and facilities necessary for an economy to function.
it can be generally defined as the set of interconnected structural तत्व कि provide framework supporting an entire structure of development.
It is an महत्वपूर्ण term लिये judging a country or प्रदेश 's विकास.
The पद typically refers to the technical structures that support a समाज, such as roads, bridges, जल सप्लाई, sewers, विद्युत ग्रिड, telecommunications, और so forth, and can be defined as `` the physical components of interrelated systems providing commodities and services essential to enable, sustain, or enhance societal जीना शर्तें. ''
Viewed functionally, infrastructure facilitates the production of goods and सेवाएं, और also the वितरण of finished products to बाज़ार, as well as basic सोशल services such as schools and hospitals ; for example, roads enable the हस्तांतरण of कच्चा सामग्री to a factory.
In सैन्य parlance, the पद refers to the buildings and permanent संस्थापना जरुरी for the support, redeployment, and operation of military शक्तियां.
To make it simple, अवसंरचना is anything that is needed everyday, an everyday मद.
a graphical प्रतिनिधित्व of the ideal human karyotype
Mitochondrial DNA.
इंसान जेनेटिक विभिन्नता is the genetic मतभेद both within और among populations.
There may be multiple variants of कोई दिए gene in the इंसान population ( जीनों ), leading to बहुरूपता.
अनेक genes are नहीं बहुरूपी, अर्थ that only a सिंगल allele is present in the population : the gene is तब कहा to be fixed.
No दो इंसानो are genetically identical.
भी monozygotic जुड़वा, जो develop इससे one zygote, have infrequent जेनेटिक differences due to mutations occurring during development और gene नक़ल क्रमांक variation.
Differences between individuals, even closely related individuals, हैं the key to तकनीकों such as genetic फिंगरप्रिंटिंग.
Alleles occur at different frequencies in different इंसान populations, साथ populations कि are more geographically और ancestrally remote tending to differ अधिक.
कल्याणकारी of differences between individuals include the exchange of जीनों दौरान meiosis and विभिन्न mutational events.
There हैं at तनिक दो कारण क्यों genetic विभिन्नता exists between populations.
प्राकृतिक चयन may confer an adaptive advantage to individuals in a विशिष्ट environment if an allele provides a प्रतिस्पर्धी advantage.
alleles under चयन are likely to occur only in those geographic regions where वे confer an लाभ.
the second main कारण of genetic variation is due to the high degree of neutrality of most mutations.
सबसे mutations do not appear to have any चयनात्मक effect one रास्ता or the other on the organism.
the प्रमुख cause is जेनेटिक drift, इस is the प्रभाव of यादृच्छिक परिवर्तन in the gene पूल.
in इंसानो, founder effect और past छोटी जनसांख्यिकी आकार ( increasing the likelihood of genetic drift ) may have था an important influence in neutral मतभेद between populations.
the सिद्धान्त that humans recently migrated out of अफ़्रीकी supports this.
The पढ़ाई of इंसान जेनेटिक विभिन्नता रै both evolutionary significance और चिकित्सा applications.
it can सहायता scientists understand प्राचीन इंसान population migrations as खूब as how different human groups हैं biologically सम्बन्धित to one another.
लिये आयुर्विज्ञान, study of human genetic विभिन्नता may be महत्वपूर्ण because some disease-causing alleles occur more प्रायः in लोगों इससे विशिष्ट भौगोलिक regions.
New निष्कर्षों दिखाएँ कि each इंसान has on औसत 60 नई mutations compared to their parents.
Apart from mutations, अनेक genes कि may have aided humans in प्राचीन टाइम्स प्लेग इंसानो today.
लिये example, it is suspected कि जीनों कि allow इंसानो to more efficiently process खाना are those कि मेक people susceptible to obesity and diabetes today.
Tea पार्टी protesters on the West लॉन of the u.S. कैपिटल और the National मॉल at the Taxpayer कूच on Washington on सितंबर 12, 2009.
the चाय पार्टी movement is an American राजनैतिक गति कि advocates strict adherence to the United राज्य संविधान, reducing U.S. सरकारी spending and taxes, and reduction of the u.S. national कर्ज़ and संघीय budget deficit.
the गति रै been पुकारा partly रूढ़िवादी, partly libertarian, और partly populist.
The movement has प्रायोजित विरोध और समर्थित राजनैतिक candidates since 2009.
the name of the movement is derived from the बोस्टन Tea Party of 1773, an iconic इवेंट in American इतिहास.
Anti-tax प्रदर्शनकारियों in the संयुक्त States have प्रायः referred to the original Boston चाय Party for प्रेरणा.
References to the बोस्टन Tea पार्टी were part of कर दिन विरोध आयोजित throughout the 1990s और पहले.
By 2001, a कस्टम था developed among कुछ conservative activists of mailing tea बैग to विधायक and अन्य officials as a सांकेतिक act.
the currencies of प्यूर्टो रीको closely follow the ऐतिहासिक विकास of Puerto Rico.
as a उपनिवेश of स्पेन और the United States, Puerto रीको was granted the use of both विदेशी और provincial currencies.
following the Spanish colonization in 1502, प्यूर्टो रीको became an महत्वपूर्ण port, with इसके अपना सप्लाई of gold.
however, as the खनिज reserves ran empty within the century, the द्वीपसमूह 's economy suffered.
the स्पेनी Crown जारी the Situado Mexicano, which meant कि a semi-regular shipment of gold from the viceroyalty of New स्पेन would be sent to the द्वीप, as a way to provide आर्थिक support.
between 1636 और 1637, फिलिप iv of Spain imposed a कर which था to be सशुल्क using a आय stamp.
Inspired by this, Puerto Rico began producing banknotes in 1766, becoming the पहला उपनिवेश to छपाई 8- real banknotes in the स्पेनी साम्राज्य and which in the Spanish government 's स्वीकृति of subsequent मुद्दे.
the situado was discontinued during the 19th सदी, बनाना an आर्थिक संकट, as a परिणाम of Mexico gaining इसके स्वतंत्रता from Spain.
साल्वाडोर meléndez Bruna, the colonial governor in office, ordered the समस्या of प्रांतीय banknotes, बनाना the Puerto rican peso.
however, printing of ये banknotes ceased after 1815.
During the following दशकों, foreign सिक्के became the widespread currency.
In the 1860s और 1870s, banknotes reemerged.
On February 1, 1890, the Banco Español de प्यूर्टो Rico was inaugurated and began issuing banknotes.
The bank designed four श्रेणी and लगाई तीन in circulation under स्पेनी नियम.
in 1895, a royal Decree ordered the production of provincial peso coins.
On अगस्त 13, 1898, the Spanish-American War ended साथ स्पेन ceding Puerto रीको to the संयुक्त राज्य.
The Banco Español de प्यूर्टो Rico थी renamed बैंको of पोर्टो रीको and जारी bills समतुल्य to the United राज्य dollar, बनाना the प्यूर्टो Rican dollar.
In 1902, the पहला नेशनल Bank of Porto Rico जारी banknotes in a parallel manner.
दो more series were issued until 1913.
बाद Puerto Rico 's economy और मौद्रिक system थी fully एकीकृत into the United States ' economic and monetary प्रणाली, the Puerto Rican dollars यहूद redeemed लिये those issued by the संयुक्त राज्य राजकोष.
The पेसो और डालर have महरूम followed by other समकालीन issues, including commemorative banknotes, private currency, and a quarter सिक्का designed with Fort सैन फेलिप डेल morro in the face.
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as पेप्सी, formerly stylized in uppercase as PEPSI ) is a कार्बोनेटेड नरम drink कि is produced and manufactured by पेप्सिको.
Created and विकसित in 1893 and introduced as Brad 's पेय, it was renamed as Pepsi-Cola on August 28, 1898, then to Pepsi in 1961.
the किताब of ezekiel is the तीसरा of the latter Prophets in the Hebrew Bible, following the books of यशायाह and यिर्मयाह and preceding the किताब of the बारह.
( The order is somewhat अलग in the Christian Old Testament ).
It गर्भाशयी इसके name इससे, and रिकॉर्ड the visions of, the 6th century BC priest and नबी Ezekiel.
according to the book, the prophet, exiled in Babylon, experienced a series of सात visions दौरान the 22 सालो इससे 593 to 571 bc, a period जिससे spans the फाइनल destruction of Jerusalem in 586.
the visions, और the किताब, are संरचित around three विषयवस्तु : ( 1 ) निर्णय on Israel ( chapters 1-24 ) ; ( 2 ) judgment on the राष्ट्र ( chapters 25-32 ) ; and future blessings लिये Israel ( chapters 33-48 ).
New Orleans ( or, locally or ; ) is a major संयुक्त राज्य बंदरगाहों और the largest city and metropolitan क्षेत्रफल in the राज्य of louisiana.
the जनसांख्यिकी of the नगर थी 343,829 as of the 2010 u.S. जनसांख्यिकी.
The New Orleans metropolitan area ( New orleans–metairie–kenner महानगर सांख्यिकीय Area ) था a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,167,764 in 2010 और was the 46th largest in the संयुक्त States.
the नई orleans–metairie–bogalusa संयुक्त सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल, a larger trading area, था a 2010 जनसांख्यिकी of 1,214,932.
the city is नामित बाद Orléans, a नगर स्तिथ on the Loire River in केन्द्र, France, and is खूब known लिये its पृथक French क्रियोल architecture, as खूब as its cross-cultural and बहुभाषी heritage.
New ऑरलियन्स is भी famous लिये its भोजन, music ( particularly as the birthplace of jazz ), and इसके annual celebrations और festivals, सबसे notably Mardi ग्रा.
the city is often referred to as the `` most unique '' in America.
नई Orleans is located in southeastern Louisiana, straddling the Mississippi नदी.
the नगर and ऑरलियन्स Parish ( ) हैं.
the city and parish are bounded by the parishes of St. tammany to the north, St. बर्नार्ड to the east, Plaquemines to the south और जेफरसन to the south और west.
Lake Pontchartrain, part of जिससे is शामिल in the city limits, lies to the north और झील Borgne lies to the east.
the National Birth कंट्रोल लीग was a जनम control organization in the संयुक्त राज्य.
It was founded in March 1915 by Mary dennett, क्लारा Gruening Stillman and जेसी एशले.
Its main purpose थी to overturn the कानून which बैन contraceptives from the u.S. mails.
अभियान यहूद आरोहित in New York, लकिन in 1919 the League थी disbanded and reformed into the Voluntary Parenthood League.
Cancer, known medically as a malignant neoplasm, is a broad समूह of various diseases, सब involving unregulated cell विकास.
In cancer, कोशिकाएं divide और grow uncontrollably, forming malignant tumors, and invade आसपास parts of the body.
the cancer may also spread to more दूर parts of the body through the lymphatic system or bloodstream.
Not all tumors are cancerous.
Benign tumors do not grow uncontrollably, do नहीं invade neighboring ऊतकों, and do नहीं spread throughout the body.
वहीँ हैं over 200 अलग known cancers that afflict इंसानो.
determining what causes कर्कट is complex.
अनेक बाते are ज्ञात to बढ़ाएँ the रिस्क of कर्कट, including तम्बाकू उपयोग, निश्चित infections, विकिरण, कमी of शारीरिक कार्यकलाप, मोटापा, and environmental प्रदूषक.
ये can directly क्षति जीनों or combine with मौजूदा जेनेटिक faults within cells to cause the disease.
Approximately पाँच to ten percent of cancers हैं entirely खानदानी.
Cancer can be detected in a क्रमांक of ways, सहित the presence of certain लक्षण और लक्षण, स्क्रीनिंग परीक्षण, or medical imaging.
Once a possible cancer is detected it is diagnosed by microscopic परिक्षा of a tissue नमूना.
Cancer is प्रायः treated with chemotherapy, radiation चिकित्सा और surgery.
the संभावना of surviving the disease vary greatly by the type and location of the cancer और the extent of बीमारी at the start of उपचार.
जबकि cancer can affect लोगों of all आयु, और a few प्रकार of cancer are अधिक common in children, the रिस्क of developing कर्कट generally increases with age.
in 2007, कर्कट caused परिचय 13 % of सब इंसान मौतों worldwide ( 7.9 million ).
दरों are उठती as अधिक people live to an बूढ़ा आयु और as mass lifestyle परिवर्तन occur in the विकासशील world.
वसन्त ski touring on Hardangervidda, Norway
Skiing is a recreational activity और competitive खेल in जिससे the भागीदार attaches long धावक or skis to बूट or जूते on the feet and उपयोग उन्हें to सफर on top of हिम.
aside इससे recreation और प्रतियोगिता, skiing has महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये military purposes और even यात्राएं in क्षेत्रों that experience भारी snowfall.
अनेक प्रकार of competitive skiing कार्यक्रम are पहचाना by the International Olympic Committee, और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्की Federation.
John मेनार्ड Keynes, 1st Baron keynes, CB, FBA ( ; 5 June 1883 – 21 April 1946 ) was a अंग्रेजों economist जिनकी विचार have fundamentally प्रभावित the theory and practice of modern macroeconomics, and सूचित the economic नीतियों of सरकारें.
he निर्मित on and greatly refined पहले work on the causes of business cycles, और is widely considered to be एक of the संस्थापकों of modern macroeconomics और the most influential economist of the 20th century.
उसके ideas हैं the basis for the स्कूल of विचार known as keynesian अर्थशास्त्र, as well as its various offshoots.
In अनेक ways, subsequent developments in 20th सदी economics can be viewed as either भवन on keynes ' विचार or reacting विरूद्ध उन्हें.
in the 1930s, keynes पथप्रदर्शन a क्रान्ति in आर्थिक सोच, overturning the older ideas of neoclassical अर्थशास्त्र कि आयोजित कि free markets would, in the छोटी to medium term, automatically provide पूरा employment, as long as workers यहूद लचीली in उनके wage demands.
keynes instead argued that aggregate माँग determined the overall level of आर्थिक कार्यकलाप, and कि अपर्याप्त aggregate माँग could सीसे to prolonged periods of ऊँची unemployment.
he advocated the उपयोग of फिस्कल और मौद्रिक उपायों to mitigate the प्रतिकूल प्रभाव of economic recessions and depressions.
following the outbreak of the Second संसार युद्ध, keynes 's ideas concerning economic नीति were adopted by अग्रणी पश्चिमी economies.
In 1942, Keynes was awarded a खानदानी peerage as Baron keynes of Tilton in the काउंटी of ससेक्स.
Keynes died in 1946, but दौरान the 1950s और 1960s the कामयाबी of keynesian economics resulted in लगभग all capitalist सरकारें adopting इसके नीति recommendations.
keynes 's influence waned in the 1970s, partly as a परिणाम of समस्याएं कि began to पहुँचकर the anglo-american economies इससे the प्रारंभ of the दशक, and partly क्युकी of critiques from मिल्टन फ्राइडमैन और अन्य economists जो यहूद pessimistic about the ability of सरकारें to regulate the कारोबार साईकिल with फिस्कल नीति.
however, the advent of the वैश्विक वित्तीय crisis in 2007 caused a resurgence in keynesian thought.
keynesian अर्थशास्त्र provided the सैद्धांतिक underpinning for आर्थिक नीतियों undertaken in response to the crisis by Presidents जार्ज W. Bush और बराक ओबामा of the United States, Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom, और अन्य heads of सरकारें.
In 1999, समय पत्रिका शामिल keynes in their list of the 100 most important और influential लोगों of the 20th century, commenting that : `` उसके कट्टरपंथी idea that सरकारें should खर्च धन वे do n't have may have saved capitalism. ''
In addition to होने an economist, Keynes थी also a सिविल servant, a निदेशक of the अंग्रेजों eugenics समाज, a director of the Bank of इंग्लैण्ड, a संरक्षक of the arts और an आर्ट कलेक्टर, a part of the Bloomsbury समूह of intellectuals, an सलाहकार to अनेक charitable trusts, a लेखक, a philosopher, a private निवेशकों, और a farmer.
इस 1768 parchment ( 612×502 mm ) by Jekuthiel Sofer emulated the 1675 टेन Commandments at the एम्सटर्डम esnoga synagogue.
the टेन Commandments, भी known as the decalogue, are a नियत of biblical कानून relating to आचार और इबादत, जिससे play a आधारभूत role in judaism, Islam and christianity.
वे शामिल instructions to इबादत only God, to रखना the sabbath पावन और prohibitions against idolatry, इनकार, हत्या, theft, deception और adultery.
Different समूह follow slightly different traditions for interpreting और क्रमांकन them.
the Ten आयतें appear twice in the Hebrew बाइबल, in the books of exodus and deuteronomy.
according to the स्टोरी in exodus, परमेश्वर inscribed them on दो स्टोन tablets, which he दिया to मूसा on माउंट Sinai.
आधुनिक scholarship has found likely influences in hittite and mesopotamian laws और treaties, लकिन is divided over exactly जब the Ten Commandments were written and जो wrote them.
The डिस्कोग्राफ़ी of the अंग्रेज़ी alternative rock बैंड the Smiths consists of four स्टुडियो एल्बम, एक extended play ( EP ), एक live album, टेन संकलन एल्बम, बीस singles, one वीडियो album and चौदह म्यूज़िक वीडियो on the Rough Trade, Sire और WEA रिकार्ड लेबल्स.
the band थी formed in 1982 in Manchester by vocalist Morrissey, guitarist Johnny Marr, bass player एंडी rourke and वादक माइक joyce.
despite होने championed by बीबीसी Radio 1 डिस्क jockey जॉन Peel, the बैंड 's डेब्यू सिंगल, `` हाथ in दस्ताने `` ( May 1983 ), failed to chart.
इसके follow-up, `` इस Charming Man `` ( October 1983 ), met साथ critical acclaim and पहुँचे क्रमांक twenty-five on the UK Singles चार्ट.
the smiths ' cult औकात was followed by मुख्यधारा success in 1984, as वे पहुँचे number बारह in the uk with the `` What अंतर Does it Make ? `` single और reached क्रमांक two on the UK एल्बम Chart with their debut album, the smiths ( 1984 ).
उनके next three singles all reached the top बीस of the चार्ट in the UK, helping to consolidate their previous chart success.
The अगला स्टुडियो एल्बम, मांस is हत्या ( 1985 ), reached the top of the British चार्ट ; however, the तभी single to be released from the album, `` कि Joke is n't Funny Anymore `` ( 1985 ), failed to ब्रेक the UK शीर्ष 40.
Returning to form, the smiths ' next six singles all reached the higher than क्रमांक thirty in the UK and उनके third एल्बम, the Queen Is Dead ( 1986 ), पहुँचे number two in the UK.
despite the band 's chart success, marr बाएँ the समूह in अगस्त 1987 due to a strained संबंध with Morrissey.
Failing to find a replacement, the Smiths disbanded by the time their फाइनल स्टुडियो album, strangeways, यहाँ we Come, was released in September that year.
strangeways, यहाँ we Come पहुँचे क्रमांक दो in the uk और became the बैंड 's highest-charting रिलीज in the संयुक्त States when it reached number fifty-five on the Billboard 200.
in जल्दी 1992, WEA acquired the संपूर्ण वापस catalogue of the smiths और उत्पादित दो compilations – Best... I and... Best ii – the first of जिससे reached the शीर्ष of the uk एल्बम Chart.
wea released दो further singles compilations in 1995 और 2001, with a further संकलन, The ध्वनि of The smiths, released in November 2008.
Gone with the Wind is a novel लिखा by Margaret मिशेल, first published in 1936.
it is often placed in the साहित्यिक sub-genre of the ऐतिहासिक रोमांस novel.
however, it रै been argued the अनोखा is a `` निकट miss '' और does not contain सब of the तत्व of the romance genre, बनाना it simply a ऐतिहासिक novel.
the story is नियत in क्लेटन काउंटी, जॉर्जिया, and अटलांटा दौरान the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध और Reconstruction.
It depicts the experiences of स्कारलेट o'hara, the बिगड़े daughter of a well-to-do वृक्षारोपण owner, who जरूर उपयोग every means at उसके disposal to आइये आउट of the poverty वो finds herself in बाद Sherman 's `` March to the Sea ''.
मार्गरेट Mitchell began लिखने Gone with the हवा in 1926 to pass the समय while recovering from an auto-crash चोट कि refused to heal.
in अप्रैल 1935, Harold Latham of macmillan, an एडिटर who थी looking लिये new fiction, read what she had लिखा and देखी कि it could be a best-seller.
बाद Latham agreed to publish the किताब, Mitchell worked for another छह months checking the historical references, and rewrote the खोलने अध्याय several times.
मिशेल और her husband John Marsh, a नक़ल एडिटर by व्यापार, edited the final version of the novel.
मिशेल wrote the book 's फाइनल पल पहला, और then लिखा the events that led up to it.
As to what became of उसके प्रेमियों, रहेट और Scarlett, after the अनोखा ended, Mitchell did नहीं जान, and कहा, `` लिये सब I जान, Rhett may have मिला someone else जो was less difficult. ''
Mitchell received the पुलित्जर पुरस्कार लिये fiction for the book in 1937.
The किताब थी adapted into a 1939 अमरीकी film.
Gone साथ the हवा is the only अनोखा by मिशेल published during her आजीवन.
endodontics ( from the यूनानी endo `` अंदर '' ; and odons `` दाँत '' ) is one of the dental specialties पहचाना by the American Dental Association, royal कॉलेज of Dentists of कनाडा, and royal australasian College of दंत Surgeons, and सौदे साथ the दाँत pulp and the ऊतकों surrounding the root of a दाँत.
Endodontists perform a variety of procedures सहित endodontic therapy ( commonly ज्ञात as `` रूट canal therapy '' ), endodontic retreatment, सर्जरी, treating cracked teeth, और treating dental आघात.
Root कनाल चिकित्सा is one of the most common प्रक्रियाओं.
If the pulp ( containing nerves, arterioles, venules, lymphatic tissue, and तंतुमय ऊतक ) becomes diseased or घायल, endodontic treatment is required to save the दाँत.
Serial संलग्न scsi ( sas ) is a point-to-point serial protocol कि चालें आंकड़ा to and इससे computer storage डिवाइस such as मुश्किल drives and tape ड्राइव.
sas replaces the older Parallel scsi ( सुनाया `` scuzzy '' ) बस प्रौद्योगिकी that पहला appeared in the mid-1980s.
sas, जैसे इसके पूर्ववर्ती, उपयोग the मानक SCSI कमांड set.
SAS offers पिछड़ा संगतता साथ second-generation SATA ड्राइव.
SATA 3 Gbit/s drives may be कनेक्ट to sas backplanes, लकिन SAS drives can not कनेक्ट to sata backplanes.
the T10 तकनीकी कमेटी of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय कमेटी लिये सूचना Technology Standards ( incits ) develops and maintains the sas प्रोटोकॉल ; the scsi Trade Association ( scsita ) promotes the technology.
Part of the constitutional प्रावधान as it appeared in 1787
Status as a natural-born citizen of the United राज्य is one of the पात्रता requirements established in the United States Constitution लिये election to the office of President or Vice President.
This आवश्यकता थी intended to protect the स्वदेश इससे विदेशी influence.
The Constitution करता not define the phrase natural-born नागरिक, और विभिन्न राय have महरूम offered over समय regarding its precise अर्थ.
a 2011 Congressional शोध Service report stated
The natural-born-citizen clause has been mentioned in passing in several decisions of the संयुक्त राज्य Supreme अदालत and निम्नतर courts dealing साथ the सवाल of पात्रता लिये नागरिकता by birth, लकिन the परम् अदालत रै never सीधे addressed the सवाल of a specific अध्यक्षीय or vice-presidential प्रत्याशी 's पात्रता as a natural-born नागरिक.
kurtis Eugene `` Kurt '' Warner ( born June 22, 1971 ) is a former American फ़ुटबॉल player.
he निभाई quarterback लिये three National फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ) teams : the st. Louis Rams, the New यॉर्क Giants, और the एरिज़ोना Cardinals.
he थी originally हस्ताक्षरित by the Green खाड़ी पैकर्स as an undrafted free एजेंट in 1994 बाद playing college फ़ुटबॉल at Northern आयोवा.
Warner would go on to be माना the best undrafted player of सब समय, following a 12-year career regarded as एक of the greatest stories in NFL इतिहास.
warner पहला attained स्टारडम जबकि playing लिये the St. Louis Rams from 1998 to 2003, जहाँ he जीती दो NFL MVP पुरस्कार in 1999 और 2001 as खूब as the सुपर Bowl mvp पुरस्कार in Super Bowl xxxiv.
he led the 2008 एरिज़ोना कार्डिनल्स to सुपर Bowl xliii ( the मताधिकार 's first Super कटोरी berth ), and owns the three उच्चतम single-game गुजर yardage totals in Super Bowl history.
warner currently holds the seventh-highest career passer दरजा of all-time ( 93.7 ), and the third-highest career completion percentage in एनएफएल history साथ 65.5 %.
in 13 करियर playoff games, Warner ranks first all-time in पूर्णता percentage ( 66.5 % ), गज per attempt ( 8.55 ), and second in passer rating ( 102.8 ).
He also holds the उच्चतम पूर्णता percentage for a single खेल during the regular ऋतु, at 92.3 percent ( 24/26 ), on सितंबर 20, 2009, against the jacksonville jaguars.
He घोषित उसके retirement on जनवरी 29, 2010. < ref name='cnn 2010-01-29 ' >
जेनेट Kay Ruthven hagan ( ; born may 26, 1953 ) is the जूनियर United States Senator इससे उत्तर Carolina, in office since जनवरी 2009.
previously वो served in the उत्तर Carolina सीनेट from 1999 to 2009.
वो is a सदस्य of the लोकतांत्रिक Party and is viewed as a moderate member of उसके party.
When hagan पराजित रिपब्लिकन लाज़िम एलिज़ाबेथ dole in the 2008 संयुक्त States Senate चुनाव, she became the first woman to शिकस्त an incumbent woman in a सीनेट चुनाव.
The heisman मेमोरियल Trophy Award ( प्रायः ज्ञात colloquially as the Heisman ट्रॉफी or the Heisman ), is awarded annually to the खिलाड़ी deemed the सबसे बकाया खिलाड़ी in collegiate फ़ुटबॉल.
It थी निर्मित in 1935 as the शहर एथलेटिक Club trophy और renamed in 1936 following the मौत of the क्लबों 's athletic निदेशक, John Heisman ( पूर्व भूरा University and विश्वविद्यालयों of Pennsylvania player ; सिर football coach at Oberlin College, Auburn University, Clemson University, Rice विश्वविद्यालयों, और the University of Pennsylvania ; और फ़ुटबॉल, बास्केट, and baseball सिर कोच and एथलेटिक director at Georgia तकनीक ).
the पुरस्कार is प्रस्तुत by the heisman ट्रॉफी Trust in जल्दी December before the postseason bowl games.
It is the oldest of अनेक overall awards in कॉलेज football, including the मैक्सवेल Award, Walter शिविर पुरस्कार, and the ap Player of the Year.
the heisman और the ap Player of the Year are the only awards to honor the most बकाया player, while the Maxwell पुरस्कार और वाल्टर Camp Award recognize the best player, और the आर्ची griffin Award recognizes the सबसे मूल्यवान player.
the संयुक्त राष्ट्र Command ( unc ) is the एकीकृत command structure for the multinational सैन्य शक्तियां supporting the गणतंत्र of Korea ( दक्षिण कोरियाई or ROK ) during और बाद the कोरियाई युद्ध.
After सैनिकों of the Democratic People 's गणतंत्र of कोरियाई ( North कोरियाई or dprk ) invaded दक्षिण Korea on जून 25, 1950, the United Nations Security Council adopted रेज़ोल्यूशन 82 कॉलिंग on North Korea to cease hostilities and withdraw to the 38th parallel.
on June 27, 1950, it अपनाया Resolution 83, recommending that members of the United राष्ट्र provide assistance to the गणतंत्र of कोरियाई `` to repel the armed attack और to restore अंतरराष्ट्रीय सलाम and security to the area ''.
सुरक्षा Council Resolution 84, adopted on July 7, 1950, recommended that सदस्यों providing military शक्तियां और other सहायता to दक्षिण कोरियाई `` make such शक्तियां and अन्य सहायता available to a unified कमांड under the United States of अमेरिका ''.
हालांकि the रिज़ॉल्यूशन suggested the शक्तियां अंतर्गत the unc यहूद `` संयुक्त Nations forces '', and United राष्ट्र itself could be considered a belligerent, in practice the United राष्ट्र exercised no control over the कॉम्बैट forces, which were controlled by the United States.
सबसे observers concluded कि the शक्तियां under the UNC were not in विधि United Nations troops, और the अधिनियमों of the unc यहूद not the अधिनियमों of the संयुक्त Nations.
The unc can be regarded as an गठबंधन of नेशनल सेना, ऑपरेटिंग under the collective right of self-defense.
on August 29, 1950, the British Commonwealth 's 27th Infantry Brigade arrived at Busan to जुड़ें the UNC, which until तब शामिल तभी rok और U.S. forces.
the 27th ब्रिगेड moved into the Naktong नदी लकीर west of daegu.
Troop इकाई इससे other countries of the UN followed in rapid उत्तराधिकार ; ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Belgian United Nations Command, कनाडा, कोलंबिया, इथियोपिया, France, यूनानियों, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, New जीलैंड, the फिलीपीन, Thailand और तुर्कों.
the संघ of दक्षिण Africa provided एयर units जिससे लड़ा alongside the एयर forces of अन्य member राष्ट्र.
डेनमार्क, इण्डिया, नार्वे, और स्वीडन provided चिकित्सा इकाई.
Italy provided a हॉस्पिटल, even हालांकि it थी not a UN member.
The संयुक्त Nations कमांड and the Chinese-North Korean कमांड हस्ताक्षरित the कोरियाई Armistice Agreement on 27 July 1953, ending the heavy लड़.
the armistice agreement स्थापित the Military armistice Commission ( मैक ), consisting of प्रतिनिधि of the two signatories, to supervise the implementation of the armistice शर्तें.
the North Korean-Chinese MAC रै महरूम replaced by Panmumjon Representatives अंतर्गत exclusive North Korean management.
नियमित बैठक have महरूम रोका, although duty officers of संयुक्त सुरक्षा क्षेत्रफल, commonly ज्ञात as the Truce गाँव of Panmunjom, from each side मिलें regularly.
Lincoln हाइट्स is an अमरीकी family drama टेलीविज़न series about एडी Sutton, a मिशन Vista पुलिस officer जो moves his family back to his old पड़ोस, lincoln Heights, to start a new life और to help आउट उसके बूढ़ा neighborhood.
It is a खतरनाक place to raise a परिवार, और through the अनेक ट्रायल the family goes through, they जल्द learn that settling in is not as easy as it seems.
While अधिकारी Sutton struggles to cope with every day जीवन as a गली cop in लॉस एंजिल्स, his kids try to fit in at their नई स्कूलों और साथ their new neighbors.
the show premiered जनवरी 8, 2007 on the ABC परिवार संजाल साथ 13 एपीसोड ordered लिये the first ऋतु.
It was approved लिये a second season, which premiered September 4, 2007.
Vanessa Hudgens ' सोंग, Say OK था been प्रयुक्त in a वाणिज्यिक to promote the second season.
to प्रचार the third ऋतु, वे दिखाया clips of Cassie and Charles 's relationship to the song, Crush by the American आइडल 's seventh season runner-up, David archuleta.
to promote ऋतु 4, वे 're using the song, Avalanche by मारी digby.
The दिखाएँ 's थीम song थी written and performed by bassist स्टेनली क्लार्क and singer-songwriter blaire reinhard.
on जनवरी 29, 2010, ABC परिवार घोषित the रद्दीकरण of the series बाद four seasons.
a ईसाई denomination is an identifiable religious देह under a आम name, structure, और doctrine within Christianity.
In the परंपरागत परंपरा, churches हैं विभाजित प्रायः along जातीय और linguistic lines, into पृथक चर्च and traditions.
technically, divisions between एक समूह and another हैं defined by doctrine and गिरिजाघर authority.
Issues such as the प्रकृति of Jesus, the प्राधिकार of apostolic उत्तराधिकार, eschatology, और papal primacy पृथक one denomination from another.
the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर is the largest denomination with over 1.1 अरब members, over हाफ of सब Christians विश्वव्यापी, बनाना it the largest denomination लिये any religion विश्वव्यापी ( although the गिरिजाघर करता not view itself as a denomination, लकिन as the original pre-denominational church ).
प्रोटोस्टेंट denominations comprise roughly 38–39 % of ईसाइयों worldwide, और साथ the catholics, protestants, Anglicans, and other closely related denominations comprise Western Christianity.
the Eastern परंपरागत गिरिजाघर, Oriental Orthodox चर्च and the assyrian गिरिजाघर of the ईस्ट हैं considered Eastern ईसाई denominations.
Western ईसाई denominations जीतना in Western Europe and its former colonies.
पूर्वी Christian denominations हैं represented ज़्यादातर in Eastern यूरोपीय, the मध्य ईस्ट और North अफ़्रीकी.
Christians have विभिन्न doctrines परिचय the Church, the body of faithful कि they believe थी established by यीशु Christ, और कैसा the divine church corresponds to Christian denominations.
दोनो the catholics और the Eastern Orthodox consider प्रत्येक of themselves solely to faithfully represent the एक Holy कैथोलिक और अपोस्टोलिक Church to the exclusion of the other.
Protestants separated इससे the कैथोलिक Church क्युकी of theologies and practices that they माना to be in violation of उनके interpretation.
Generally, सदस्यों of the various denominations acknowledge प्रत्येक other as ईसाइयों, at least to the extent that वे have mutually recognized baptisms और acknowledge historically orthodox views सहित the Divinity of Jesus and doctrines of सिन and मोक्ष, even हालांकि doctrinal and ecclesiological obstacles रोकते full communion between churches.
चूंकि the reforms surrounding Vatican II, the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर रै referred to Protestant समुदायों as `` denominations '', जबकि reserving the term `` गिरिजाघर '' for अपोस्टोलिक चर्च, सहित the Eastern परंपरागत ( देखिए subsistit in और शाखा सिद्धान्त ).
There हैं however some non-denominational ईसाइयों who do not follow any particular शाखा.
The panda ( Ailuropoda melanoleuca, lit.
`` ब्लैक and white cat-foot '' ), भी ज्ञात as the giant पांडा to फर्क it from the unrelated रेड पांडा, is a भालू native to central-western और दक्षिण western चीन.
it is easily recognized by the large, distinctive black धब्बे around इसके आँखें, over the कानों, and across its round body.
हालांकि it belongs to the अनुक्रम Carnivora, the पांडा 's diet is 99 % बाँसुरी.
pandas in the जंगली will occasionally eat other grasses, जंगली tubers, or भी meat in the रूप of birds, rodents or carrion.
in captivity, वे may प्राप्त मधु, eggs, fish, yams, shrub leaves, oranges, or bananas along साथ विशेषकर prepared खाना.
The दानव panda lives in a few mountain ranges in सेंट्रल चीन, mainly in सिचुआन province, लकिन also in the shaanxi और गांसू प्रांतों.
as a परिणाम of farming, वनों and अन्य विकास, the panda has महरूम driven out of the lowland areas where it once lived.
The पांडा is a conservation reliant endangered species.
A 2007 report shows 239 pandas जीना in captivity अंदर चीन और another 27 बाहर the देश.
Wild जनसांख्यिकी estimates vary ; one estimate shows कि वहीँ are परिचय 1,590 individuals जीना in the wild, while a 2006 study via DNA विश्लेषण estimated that इस फिगर could be as ऊँची as 2,000 to 3,000.
कुछ reports भी show कि the क्रमांक of pandas in the जंगली is on the rise.
however, the IUCN करता नहीं मानना वहीँ is पर्याप्त certainty yet to reclassify the species इससे Endangered to vulnerable.
जबकि the ड्रैगन has often परोसा as चीन 's national emblem, internationally the पांडा appears at तनिक as commonly.
as ऐसे, it is बनने widely used within चीन in international contexts, for example the पाँच fuwa mascots of the Beijing ओलंपिक.
The पतंग धावक is a 2007 अमरीकी drama फिल्मी निर्देशित by मार्क forster based on the अनोखा of the वही नाम by Khaled Hosseini.
it tells the story of Amir, a well-to-do लड़के from the वज़ीर Akbar Khan district of काबुल, who is tormented by the guilt of abandoning his friend Hassan, the बेटे of his पिता 's Hazara servant.
The story is set against a backdrop of tumultuous कार्यक्रम, इससे the fall of the साम्राज्य in अफगानिस्तान through the सोवियत military intervention, the mass exodus of अफगान शरणार्थियों to Pakistan और the United राज्य, और the Taliban शासन.
Though most of the film is नियत in Afghanistan, these parts यहूद ज़्यादातर shot in काश्गर, चीन, due to the dangers of फिल्मांकन in Afghanistan at the time.
The majority of the film 's संवाद is in Dari, with the शेष बोला in English.
The child अभिनेताओं are native speakers, but several adult actors था to learn Dari.
फिल्मांकन wrapped up on दिसम्बर 21, 2006, और the film was अपेक्षित to be released on November 2, 2007.
however, after चिंता लिये the safety of the यंग actors in the फिल्मी due to fears of violent reprisals to the sexual nature of some दृश्यों in जिससे they appear, इसके release तिथि was pushed वापस छह सप्ताह to दिसम्बर 14, 2007.
The पतंग Runner was released on dvd on कूच 25, 2008.
A hd dvd release थी घोषित लिये the same तिथि, but was रद्द following the format 's demise.
The फिल्मी थी मनोनीत लिये the Golden ग्लोब Award लिये बेहतरीन Foreign Language फिल्मी in 2007.
the film 's स्कोर by अल्बर्टो इग्लेसियस थी मनोनीत for Best असली Score at the सुनहरी Globes और the अकादमी Awards.
the legality of cannabis varies इससे country to देश.
कब्ज़ा of cannabis is illegal in सबसे countries और रै महरूम since the beginning of फैली कैनबिस निषेध in the late 1930s.
however, अनेक countries have decriminalized the कब्ज़ा of छोटी quantities of कैनबिस, विशेषकर in North अमेरिका, दक्षिण अमेरिका और Europe.
Furthermore, कब्ज़ा is legal or effectively legal in the Netherlands, North कोरियाई और would be in the u.S. राज्य of कोलोराडो और वॉशिंगटन if it यहूद नहीं for federal law, जिससे governs व्यक्तियों in all राज्य.
The medicinal use of cannabis is विधिक in a number of countries, including Canada, the चेक गणतंत्र और इसराईल.
जबकि federal law in the संयुक्त States bans all sale और possession of cannabis, प्रवर्तन varies widely at the राज्य level and some states have established औषधीय मारिजुआना programs in कि खण्डन federal विधि ; two राज्य ( Colorado and वॉशिंगटन ) have repealed उनके कानून prohibiting the recreational उपयोग of कैनबिस and replaced them साथ a नियामक regime, भी contrary to संघीय statute.
Some देशों have laws कि are not as vigorously prosecuted as अन्य but, apart from the countries कि प्रस्ताव अभिगम to medical marijuana, सबसे countries have विभिन्न penalties ranging इससे lenient to very कठोर.
कुछ infractions are लिया more seriously in some countries than अन्य in लिहाज़ to the cultivation, use, कब्ज़ा or ट्रांसफ़र of कैनबिस लिये recreational use.
a few jurisdictions have lessened penalties for possession of छोटी quantities of cannabis, बनाना it punishable by confiscation and a fine, rather than कारावास.
Some jurisdictions/ drug न्यायालयों उपयोग mandatory उपचार programs लिये young or बारंबार users, साथ स्वतंत्रता इससे narcotic दवाएँ as the लक्ष्य and a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use for औषधीय purposes.
There are भी changes in a अधिक प्रतिबंधक दिशा as in कनाडा.
ड्रग tests to detect कैनबिस are increasingly common in many देशों and have resulted in कारावास वाक्य और people खोने their jobs.
however, simple possession can carry long jail वाक्य in कुछ countries, particularly in parts of ईस्ट एशिया and southeast एशिया जहाँ the बिक्री of cannabis may lead to a वाक्य of life in prison or भी निष्पादन.
Loxahatchee is a community स्तिथ in ताड़ Beach County, फ्लोरिडा, संयुक्त राज्य.
It is located in the क्षेत्रों north of Wellington and वेस्ट and उत्तरपश्चिम of Royal ताड़ Beach, फ्लोरिडा और approximately वेस्ट of West ताड़ Beach.
Loxahatchee is भी the नाम of the पोस्ट दफ्तर that serves इस क्षेत्रफल, जिससे is अंतर्गत the zip कोड of 33470.
The नाम loxahatchee means `` कछुआ नदी. ''
loxahatchee is located भीतर the Indian trails सुधार ज़िला और the loxahatchee Groves Water कंट्रोल District.
शेर Country safari, a drive-through safari park, is स्तिथ in loxahatchee.
in 2006, the राज्य of Florida स्वीकृत incorporation of भाग of Loxahatchee as the Town of loxahatchee Groves to become the 38th नगरपालिका in ताड़ Beach काउंटी.
The main reason लिये incorporating was to better protect the क्षेत्रफल इससे बुवाई growth और to बचाना the rural character of the पड़ोस.
Perhaps the सबसे rural area within a close proximity to West ताड़ बीच, साथ लॉट sizes दायरा इससे 1-20 acres.
साथ with the Acreage, it is notable for loose land restrictions and the native और exotic एनिमल उपस्थिति is quite notable.
seminole लकीरें ऊँची स्कूल serves the area.
The कनाडाई Citizenship परीक्षण is a परीक्षण, administered by Citizenship and आव्रजन कनाडा ( सीआईसी ), that is जरूरी for सब applicants for कनाडाई citizenship who are aged between 18 and 54 और who meet the basic आवश्यकताएँ for नागरिकता.
The परीक्षण is available in both French और English, the official languages of कनाडा.
पुनर्जागरण Cruises, originally founded in 1989 owned by Fearnley & Eger rederi in Oslo - Norway, later खरीदा by एडवर्ड rudner ( संस्थापक of alamo Car rental ) as the कम्पनी faltered दौरान the Gulf युद्ध.
They operated year-round क्रूज itineraries to the Mediterranean, the यूनानी Isles, Tahiti और the दक्षिण प्रशांत, उत्तरी Europe और Scandinavia.
The कम्पनी ceased परिचालन on 25 September 2001 और accommodated up to 220,000 guests in 2000.
जबकि the company had महरूम in ग़रीब financial स्वास्थ्य for quite कुछ समय, the economic decline resulting इससे the सितंबर 11th terrorist हमले are credited साथ the demise of this क्रूज लकीर.
the fleet is listed under सूची of cruise ships.
It थी headquartered in Fort lauderdale, फ्लोरिडा.
Epithelium is one of the चार मौलिक प्रकार of animal ऊतक, along with संयोजी ऊतक, muscle ऊतक और बेचैन ऊतक.
epithelial ऊतकों line the cavities and surfaces of structures throughout the body, and also form अनेक ग्रंथियों.
कृत्यों of epithelial cells include स्राव, selective absorption, protection, transcellular transport और detection of sensation.
in Greek `` ἐπί '' ( `` epi '' ) means `` on '' or `` upon '', and `` θηλή '' ( `` thēlē '' ) means `` nipple ''.
epithelial परतों हैं avascular, so वे must प्राप्त nourishment via diffusion of substances इससे the underlying connective ऊतक, through the तहखाने membrane.
epithelia can also be organized into क्लस्टर of cells that function as बहिःस्रावी and endocrine ग्रंथियों.
Kent E. hovind ( born जनवरी 15, 1953 ) is an American यंग धरती creationist.
Hovind रै बोला on creation science and रै aimed to convince श्रोता to reject theories of evolution, भूभौतिकी, and cosmology in favor of his निर्वचन of the Genesis सृष्टि कथा from the Bible.
hovind 's दृश्य हैं contradicted by वैज्ञानिक प्रमाण and some of his ideas have भी been criticized by यंग धरती creationist organizations such as Answers in Genesis.
Hovind स्थापित the Creation Science Evangelism in 1991, and frequently spoke on young Earth creationism at seminars at private schools and चर्च, debates, and on रेडियो और television broadcasts.
चूंकि जनवरी 2007, hovind रै been सेवारत a ten-year थाना sentence बाद being convicted of 58 federal counts, including 12 कर offenses, one count of obstructing संघीय एजेंटों, and 45 रिश्तो of structuring नकदी transactions.
he is incarcerated at the Federal correctional Institution at बर्लिन, नई Hampshire.
Bride साथ बिंदी decorated forehead
a बिंदी (, from Sanskrit bindu, अर्थ `` a drop, small particle, dot '' ), or a pottu/bottu ( in Tamil, तेलुगु, और मलयालम ) is a माथे सजावट worn in दक्षिण एशिया ( विशेषकर इण्डिया, बांग्लादेश, Nepal, श्री Lanka and Mauritius ) और southeast एशिया.
Traditionally it is a bright बिन्दु of red रंग लागू in the center of the माथे close to the eyebrows, लकिन it can भी consist of a sign or टुकड़ा of आभूषण worn at इस location.
the नई यॉर्क gubernatorial चुनाव of 2010 was आयोजित on Tuesday, नवम्बर 2, 2010, to elect the Governor of New यॉर्क, to serve a four-year term that began in जनवरी 2011.
Incumbent Democratic Governor दाउद Paterson, निर्वाचित as Lieutenant Governor in 2006 as the running mate of former राज्यपाल एलियट स्पिट्जर, chose not to run लिये a full-term.
On नवम्बर 2, New यॉर्क attorney General and डेमोक्रेट Andrew cuomo defeated रिपब्लिकन कार्ल Paladino.
ग्रीन पार्टी candidate होवी Hawkins प्राप्त over 57,000 मत, allowing the नई यॉर्क Green पार्टी to be listed on the बैलट for the अगला 4 सालो.
The main डाल of Dragon बॉल at the समाप्त of the manga.
the Dragon Ball manga और anime series सुविधाएँ an extensive डाल of वर्ण created by अकिरा Toriyama.
The series takes place in a fictional universe, the वही as Toriyama 's पिछला series Dr. Slump, और फ़ॉलो the adventures of martial artist Son Goku from बाल्यकाल to adulthood as he searches for the seven spheres ज्ञात as the Dragon गेंदें, प्रयुक्त to summon a wish-granting ड्रैगन.
During the course of the story, he मुठभेड़ों allies ऐसे as bulma, Yamcha, kuririn और Trunks, rivals ऐसे as tenshinhan, piccolo और vegeta, and enemies ऐसे as freeza and कोशिका.
While अनेक of the characters हैं humans साथ superhuman शक्ति and/or अलौकिक abilities, the डाल also शामिल anthropomorphic पशु and बाद, extraterrestrial lifeforms.
the श्रेणी भी includes depictions of the आफ्टरलाइफ, साथ several characters being gods कि govern the universe.
250px
The Comanche हैं a मैदान Indian जनजाति जिनकी historic territory, known as comancheria, consisted of उपस्थित दिन eastern New Mexico, दक्षिणी कोलोराडो, northeastern Arizona, दक्षिणी Kansas, all of Oklahoma, और सबसे of northwest टेक्सास.
the comanche people हैं नामांकित in the federally recognized Comanche स्वदेश, in Oklahoma.
Historically, the comanches were hunter-gatherers with a घोड़ा culture.
वहीँ may have been as many as 45,000 Comanches in the लेट 18th सदी.
आज, the comanche स्वदेश comanche tribal enrollment संख्याएँ 15,191 with लगभग 7,763 members residing in the Lawton – Fort sill और surrounding areas of दक्षिणपश्चिम Oklahoma.
The Comanche स्वदेश homecoming Powwow is आयोजित annually in Walters, Oklahoma in mid-July.
The Comanche spoke the Comanche भाषा, a numic language of the Uto-Aztecan परिवार, sometimes वर्गीकृत as a Shoshone dialect ; however, only about 1 % of comanches बोलो it today.
ethan frome is a novel published in 1911 by the पुलित्जर पुरस्कार -winning American लेखक एडिथ व्हार्टन.
It is नियत in the fictitious कस्बा of starkfield, Massachusetts.
the novel थी adapted into a film, Ethan Frome, in 1993.
टाइम्स Square Studios ( TSS ) is an अमरीकी television स्टुडियो located in the टाइम्स Square पड़ोस of the Manhattan बरो of नई यॉर्क City, नई York.
The studio is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the production घर of एबीसी News ' Good Morning America ( GMA ), a morning न्यूज and बात कार्यक्रम और segments for जीएमए on एबीसी न्यूज अभी.
the लास Vegas Strip संसार of coca-cola संग्रहालय in 2003
coca-cola is a कार्बोनेटेड नरम पेय बेची in stores, रेस्तरां, और वेंडिंग machines in प्रत्येक country मगर क्यूबा and North कोरियाई.
it is उत्पादित by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta, जॉर्जिया, and is often referred to simply as Coke ( a registered ट्रेडमार्क of The coca-cola कम्पनी in the United States चूंकि कूच 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the लेट 19th सदी by John Pemberton, coca-cola was bought आउट by बिजनेसमैन asa Griggs Candler, whose विपणन tactics led कोक to its dominance of the संसार soft-drink मार्केट throughout the 20th सदी.
the company produces concentrate, जिससे is तब sold to licensed coca-cola bottlers throughout the world.
the bottlers, जो थाम territorially exclusive अनुबंध with the कम्पनी, produce finished product in cans and बोतलों from the concentrate in combination साथ filtered water and sweeteners.
The bottlers then बेचें, distribute और merchandise Coca-Cola to खुदरा स्टोर्स and vending मशीने.
Such bottlers include coca-cola Enterprises, which is the largest single coca-cola bottler in उत्तर अमेरिका और western Europe.
the Coca-Cola कम्पनी भी sells concentrate for soda स्रोतों to major रेस्तरां and खाना सेवा वितरकों.
the Coca-Cola कम्पनी has, on occasion, introduced other cola drinks अंतर्गत the Coke ब्रांड नाम.
The सबसे common of ये is Diet Coke, with अन्य सहित caffeine-free Coca-Cola, Diet कोक caffeine-free, coca-cola चेरी, Coca-Cola Zero, Coca-Cola Vanilla, और खास संस्करण with lemon, लाइम or कॉफी.
Based on interbrand 's बेहतरीन वैश्विक ब्रांड 2011, coca-cola थी the world 's most valuable ब्रांड.
प्रकार of bar-lines
in musical संकेतन, a बार ( or माप ) is a खण्ड of समय defined by a दिए क्रमांक of बीट्स, each of जिससे are आबंटित a particular note value.
Dividing music into बार provides regular reference points to pin पाइंट locations within a टुकड़ा of music.
It also makes लिखा music easier to follow, since प्रत्येक बार of staff प्रतीकों can be पढ़ा and निभाई as a बैच.
typically, a piece consists of अनेक बार of the same लंबाई, और in आधुनिक musical notation the क्रमांक of बीट्स in each bar is specified at the beginning of the score by the top क्रमांक of a time signature ( such as 3/4 ), जबकि the नीचे क्रमांक indicates the note value of the beat ( the ताल रै a क्वार्टर note value in the 3/4 example ).
the शब्द बार is more common in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी, और the word measure is more आम in American English, हालांकि संगीतकारों generally समझे both usages.
in American English, although the शब्द बार और measure are often used interchangeably the correct उपयोग of the शब्द 'bar ' refers तभी to the vertical line itself, जबकि the word 'measure ' refers to the बीट्स contained between bars.
in international उपयोग, it is बराबर सही to speak of bar संख्याएँ and माप numbers, e.g. ‘bars 9–16’ or ‘mm. 9–16’.
साथ the same लाइनों, it is हिकमत to reserve the abbreviated form ‘bb.
3–4’ etc. लिये बीट्स only ; bars should be referred to by name in पूरा.
The first metrically complete माप भीतर a piece of म्यूज़िक is called ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’.
When the टुकड़ा begins साथ an anacrusis ( an incomplete माप at the सिर of a टुकड़ा of music ), ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’ is the following माप.
the 19.9 mw gemasolar solar plant in Spain features 15 hours of storage और can supply शक्ति 24 घंटों a day.
Solar energy, रौशन light and heat from the सूर्य, रै महरूम harnessed by humans चूंकि ancient times using a दायरा of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar energy technologies शामिल सौर heating, सौर photovoltaics, solar thermal electricity, सौर architecture and कृत्रिम photosynthesis, जिससे can make considerable contributions to solving कुछ of the most urgent energy समस्याएं the संसार अभी चेहरों.
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive सौर or क्रियाशील solar depending on the रास्ता वे कैप्चर, बदलें और वितरित solar उर्जा.
क्रियाशील solar techniques शामिल the use of photovoltaic panels और solar thermal collectors to harness the उर्जा.
passive सौर तकनीकों include orienting a building to the Sun, selecting materials साथ favorable thermal mass or लाइट dispersing properties, और डिजाइनिंग स्पेसेस कि naturally circulate एयर.
In 2011, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Energy एजेंसी कहा that `` the विकास of affordable, inexhaustible and साफ सौर उर्जा technologies होगा have विशाल longer-term benefits.
It will बढ़ाएँ countries’ उर्जा सुरक्षा through रिलायंस on an स्वदेशी, inexhaustible and ज़्यादातर import-independent resource, बढ़ाएँ sustainability, reduce प्रदूषण, lower the costs of mitigating जलवायु change, और रखना चट्टान fuel prices निम्नतर than otherwise.
These advantages हैं वैश्विक.
Hence the अतिरिक्त लागत of the incentives लिये जल्दी deployment should be माना सीखना investments ; they जरूर be बुद्धिमानी खर्च and need to be widely shared ''.
Primary परवाह may be provided in community health centres.
Primary परवाह is the स्वास्थ्य परवाह given by a स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रदाता.
Typically इस provider acts as the प्रिंसिपल पाइंट of consultation for patients भीतर a health परवाह system and coordinates other specialists that the रोगी may need.
ऐसे a professional can be a प्राथमिक परवाह चिकित्सक, such as a general practitioner or family physician, or depending on the मोहल्ले, health प्रणाली organization, और patient 's discretion, वे may देखिए a pharmacist, a चिकित्सक assistant, a nurse practitioner, a नर्स ( ऐसे as in the संयुक्त किंगडम ), a clinical officer ( ऐसे as in parts of Africa ), or an आयुर्वेदिक or other परंपरागत medicine पेशेवर ( such as in parts of Asia ).
depending on the प्रकृति of the स्वास्थ्य condition, patients may तब be referred लिये द्वितीयक or tertiary परवाह.
`` समंदर एवेन्यू '' is a सोंग अंकित by अमरीकी pop punk समूह yellowcard.
It थी released in February 2004 as the दूसरी सिंगल इससे Ocean Avenue और the तीसरा track.
it is known लिये bringing them into the मुख्यधारा, as it received numerous spins on MTV and increasing radio airplay.
समंदर एवेन्यू is a street in Jacksonville, Florida, the band 's stomping grounds निकट their ऊँची school, Douglas एंडरसन School of the Arts, और another गली mentioned in the सोंग, Cherry गली.
the नाम of Ocean Avenue in jacksonville is दरअसल बीच boulevard.
They left their original आधार behind जब they स्थानांतरित to Los Angeles.
The सोंग थी featured on the Much म्यूज़िक compilation एल्बम Big चमकदार धुनें 9.
A psychiatrist is a physician जो specializes in psychiatry.
a मनोचिकित्सक specializes in the उपचार of mental विकार.
Psychiatrists हैं authorized to prescribe medicine, conduct शारीरिक examinations, अनुक्रम और interpret प्रयोगशाला tests, use psychotherapy और may order दिमाग इमेजिंग अध्ययन such as computed tomography ( CT/CAT Scan ), magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ), and positron उत्सर्जन tomography ( पालतु ) स्कैनिंग.
भीतर the framework of the संसार Health Organization 's ( जो ) परिभाषा of स्वास्थ्य as a राज्य of पूरा physical, mental and सोशल well-being, और नहीं merely the absence of बीमारी or infirmity, reproductive स्वास्थ्य, or यौन health/hygiene, addresses the reproductive processes, कृत्यों and system at all चरण of जीवन.
Reproductive स्वास्थ्य, इसलिए, implies that people हैं able to have a जिम्मेदार, संतोषजनक और safer sex life and कि वे have the capability to reproduce and the स्वतंत्रता to decide if, when और how often to do so.
एक interpretation of this implies कि मेन और women ought to be सूचित of and to have अभिगम to सुरक्षित, प्रभावी, affordable और acceptable methods of birth कंट्रोल ; भी अभिगम to उचित health care सेवाएं of sexual, reproductive आयुर्विज्ञान and क्रियान्वयन of स्वास्थ्य education programs to तनाव the importance of women to go safely through गर्भावस्था and प्रसव could provide couples साथ the best chance of having a स्वस्थ infant.
on the other hand individuals do फेस inequalities in reproductive health सेवाएं.
inequalities vary आधारित on socioeconomic औकात, शिक्षा स्तर, age, नस्ल, religion, और संसाधन available in their environment.
It is possible for example, कि कम आय individuals कमी the resources for appropriate स्वास्थ्य services और the knowledge to जान कया is appropriate for maintaining reproductive स्वास्थ्य.
According to the जो, `` reproductive और sexual ill-health accounts लिये 20 % of the वैश्विक बोझ of ill-health लिये महिलाओं, and 14 % लिये men. ''
reproductive health is a भाग of Sexual और reproductive health और rights.
This is a list of एपीसोड लिये the Disney Channel असली श्रेणी the Suite जीवन on Deck, जिससे aired for तीन सीज़न on Disney Channel इससे सितंबर 26, 2008 to May 6, 2011.
Core 2 is a brand encompassing a range of Intel 's consumer 64-bit x86-64 single-, दुआl-, and quad-core microprocessors आधारित on the कोर microarchitecture.
The single- and dual-core models हैं single- die, whereas the quad-core models comprise two मरता, प्रत्येक containing दो cores, packaged in a multi-chip मोड्यूल.
The परिचय of कोर 2 relegated the pentium brand to the mid-range market, and reunified लैपटॉप और डेस्कटॉप cpu lines, which previously था been divided into the pentium 4, Pentium D, और Pentium M ब्रांड्स.
The Core 2 brand was introduced on 27 July 2006, comprising the Solo ( single-core ), duo ( dual-core ), Quad ( quad-core ), and in 2007, the Extreme ( दुआl- or quad-core cpu for enthusiasts ) subbrands.
इंटेल Core 2 processors साथ vpro technology ( designed लिये व्यवसायों ) शामिल the dual-core और quad-core branches.
the सुपर Bowl is the annual चैंपियनशिप खेल of the National फ़ुटबॉल League ( एनएफएल ), the उच्चतम level of professional अमरीकी football in the संयुक्त States, culminating a season that begins in the late गर्मियाँ of the previous पंचांग साल.
the Super कटोरी उपयोग रोमन numerals to पहचानो each game, बल्कि than the साल in which it is held.
लिये example, सुपर कटोरी i थी played on January 15, 1967, following the 1966 regular ऋतु, while सुपर कटोरी xlvii थी निभाई on February 3, 2013, following the 2012 ऋतु.
the game थी created as part of a merger अनुबंध between the एनएफएल and इसके then-rival लीग, the American फ़ुटबॉल League ( AFL ).
It थी agreed that the two लीग ' चैंपियन teams होता play in an afl–nfl World चैंपियनशिप Game जबतक the विलय थी to officially begin in 1970.
After the merger, each लीग थी redesignated as a `` सम्मेलन ``, और the खेल थी then निभाई between the conference champions.
Currently, the नेशनल Football Conference ( nfc ) leads the श्रेणी with 25 विन्स to 22 wins for the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( AFC ).
The day on जिससे the Super Bowl is played, now considered by कुछ a de facto American national holiday, is called `` Super Bowl संडे ``.
it is the second-largest दिन लिये U.S. खाना consumption, बाद Thanksgiving दिन.
In addition, the Super Bowl has अक्सर महरूम the most watched अमरीकी टेलीविज़न broadcast of the year.
Super Bowl xlv, निभाई in 2011, became the most-watched अमरीकी television कार्यक्रम in history, drawing an औसत audience of 111 लाख दर्शक and taking over the spot आयोजित by the previous साल 's Super कटोरी, जिससे itself had लिया over the # 1 स्पॉट आयोजित लिये twenty-eight years by the फाइनल episode of m*a*s*h.
The सुपर कटोरी is also among the सबसे watched sporting कार्यक्रम in the संसार, लगभग all होने उत्तर अमरीकी ऑडियंस, and is दूसरी to association फ़ुटबॉल ’s यूईएफए champions लीग final as the सबसे watched सालाना sporting event विश्वव्यापी.
Because of its ऊँची viewership, commercial airtime during the सुपर Bowl ब्रॉडकास्ट is the सबसे expensive of the साल.
Due to the ऊँची cost of investing in विज्ञापन on the सुपर कटोरी, companies regularly develop उनके सबसे expensive विज्ञापन लिये इस broadcast.
As a result, watching and discussing the ब्रॉडकास्ट 's commercials रै become a significant पहलू of the event.
In addition, अनेक popular singers and musicians have performed दौरान the इवेंट 's pre-game और मध्यांतर ceremonies because of the एक्सपोज़र.
फिओना is a feminine दिए name.
The नाम फिओना was invented, and पहला प्रयुक्त, by the स्कॉटिश कवि जेम्स macpherson ( 1736–96 ), author of the ossian कविताएं, जिससे he claimed यहूद अनुवाद इससे प्राचीन गैलिक sources ( sources, when challenged, he never produced ).
the नाम थी subsequently प्रयुक्त as a pseudonym by William Sharp ( 1855–1905 ), जो authored several romantic works अंतर्गत the नाम `` फिओना macleod ''.
the name रै चूंकि become popular in England, Scotland और आयरलैंड.
The name is considered to be a latinised रूप of the गैलिक word fionn, meaning `` white '', `` मेला ''.
The name फिओना is भी sometimes used as an anglicisation of the irish-language नाम Fíona, although these names are वरना unrelated ( as Fíona is निकला इससे an element अर्थ `` vine '' ).
वहीँ is भी a आधुनिक tendency to equate the authentic स्कॉटिश Gaelic feminine name Fionnghal साथ फिओना.
The नाम फिओना is उठती in लोकप्रियता विशेषकर in German -speaking countries.
Fiona थी the 49th सबसे popular name for baby girls born in 2008 in जर्मनी.
फिओना थी tied लिये third प्लेस in the ranking of सबसे लोकप्रिय names for baby girls born in the tiny principality of Liechtenstein in 2008.
the name थी the 347th सबसे लोकप्रिय name for girls born in the United States in 2008, where it रै क्रमित among the शीर्ष 1,000 सबसे popular names लिये girls चूंकि 1990 और among the शीर्ष 500 चूंकि 1999.
The नाम फिओना has been विशेषकर लोकप्रिय लिये girls of एशियाई or प्रशांत islander descent in New यॉर्क City, जहाँ फिओना ranked as the ninth most लोकप्रिय name लिये girls from those समूह in 2007.
Many languages are used, or historically have been प्रयुक्त in the संयुक्त States.
The सबसे commonly used language is English.
वहीँ हैं also अनेक भाषाएं स्वदेशी to North अमेरिका or to U.S. राज्य or holdings in the Pacific प्रदेश.
भाषाएं brought to the country by colonists or immigrants from यूरोपीय, एशिया, or other भाग of the संसार मेक up a large portion of the भाषाएं फिलहाल प्रयुक्त ; several भाषाएं, including creoles and sign languages, have भी developed in the संयुक्त States.
लगभग 337 भाषाएं हैं spoken or हस्ताक्षरित by the population, of which 176 are indigenous to the area.
fifty-two languages formerly spoken in the country 's territory हैं now विलुप्त.
The किस्में of अंग्रेज़ी spoken in the United States is known as अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी.
अंग्रेज़ी is the de facto नेशनल language of the United States, साथ 80 % of the जनसांख्यिकी claiming it as a माँ tongue, और कुछ 95 % claiming to बोलो it `` खूब '' or `` very well ''.
however, no official language exists at the federal स्तर.
वहीँ have महरूम अनेक प्रस्ताव to make English the नेशनल language in amendments to immigration सुधार bills, but none of ये बिल्स रै become विधि with the amendment intact.
the हालात is quite varied at the state और territorial levels, with कुछ states mirroring the federal policy of adopting no official भाषा in a de jure capacity, अन्य adopting अंग्रेज़ी alone, अन्य officially adopting English as well as लोकल भाषाएं, and still others adopting a नीति of de facto bilingualism.
Spanish is the दूसरी सबसे common language in the देश, and is बोला by over 12 % of the population.
the संयुक्त States holds the संसार 's पांचवां largest spanish-speaking population, outnumbered only by Mexico, स्पेन, Colombia, और अर्जेंटीना.
Throughout the southwestern United राज्य, long-established spanish-speaking communities coexist साथ विशाल संख्याएँ of अधिक हाल Hispanophone आप्रवासियों.
हालांकि many new Latin अमरीकी immigrants हैं कम than fluent in अंग्रेज़ी, nearly all second-generation हिस्पैनिक Americans बोलो English धड़ल्ले, जबकि तभी about हाफ स्टिल बोलो स्पेनी.
according to the 2000 US जनसांख्यिकी, लोगों of German ancestry make up the largest सिंगल जातीय group in the United States, और the German भाषा ranks पांचवां.
Italian, पॉलिश, and फ्रेंच are still widely बोला among populations descending इससे immigrants from those countries in the जल्दी 20th century, but the use of these भाषाएं is dwindling as the older generations die.
Russian is also बोला by अप्रवासी populations.
Tagalog and Vietnamese have over one लाख अध्यक्षों each in the संयुक्त राज्य, लगभग entirely within हाल अप्रवासी populations.
दोनो भाषाएं, साथ with the varieties of the Chinese भाषा, Japanese, and Korean, हैं now used in चुनावों in Alaska, California, हवाई, Illinois, New York, Texas, and Washington.
Native अमरीकी भाषाएं are spoken in smaller pockets of the country, लकिन ये populations are decreasing, और the languages are लगभग never widely used outside of reservations.
हवाई, although having few देशी speakers, is an आधिकारिक language साथ with English at the state स्तर in हवाई.
the राज्य government of louisiana offers services और दस्तावेज़ in French, as करता New मैक्सिको in Spanish.
besides English, Spanish, French, German, navajo and other Native American भाषाएं, all other languages हैं प्रायः सीखे from अप्रवासी पूर्वजो that came after the time of स्वतंत्रता or learned through some रूप of शिक्षा.
1990 's pontiac ग्रैंड am Sedan fender and quarter panel
on an automobile, a क्वार्टर panel ( or rear wing as it is known in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी ) is usually माना the देह फलक which goes between the पश्च द्वार and the ट्रंक and typically wraps around the व्हील well ; however, the समान सामने section फेंडर ( गाडी ), between the द्वार and the हुड, is sometimes incorrectly referred to as a quarter फलक.
The quarter फलक is typically बना of चादर मेटल, but is sometimes made of fiberglass or fiber-reinforced प्लास्टिक ; although, इस varies साथ different makes and models.
A quarter फलक is typically a welded on component of the uni-body ढांचा or Monocoque.
बदलना of a चादर metal क्वार्टर फलक typically requires it to be cut off the vehicle और a replacement part to be welded ( or sometimes bonded ) to the गाडी.
Due to this ऊँची amount of specialized मजदूर, a quarter फलक may often be repaired बल्कि than replaced by hammering out the damage, and a देह फिलर sometimes referred to as bondo to be applied to finalize the original surface.
Shropshire ( or ; alternatively salop ; abbreviated, in print तभी, Shrops ) is a काउंटी in the वेस्ट Midlands प्रदेश of इंग्लैण्ड.
It borders Wales to the वेस्ट, Cheshire to the north, staffordshire to the east, वॉस्टरशायर to the south-east और herefordshire to the दक्षिण.
a unitary प्राधिकार ( Shropshire Council ) was created on 1 April 2009, लेने over इससे the पिछला county council और 5 district councils, और covers most of the county.
the borough of Telford and wrekin रै been a पृथक unitary authority चूंकि 1998 but continues to be शामिल in the ceremonial काउंटी.
the काउंटी 's population और economy is centred on five कस्बों : the काउंटी कस्बा of Shrewsbury, which is culturally and historically important and is located in the केन्द्र of the काउंटी ; telford, a नई कस्बा in the ईस्ट which थी constructed around a क्रमांक of older कस्बों, सबसे notably Wellington, Dawley and Madeley, which is आज the most populous ; and oswestry in the north-west, bridgnorth just to the दक्षिण of Telford, and ludlow in the दक्षिण.
The county has many further market towns, सहित whitchurch in the उत्तर, Newport बस to the north-east of telford, and मार्केट drayton in the north-east of the काउंटी.
The ironbridge Gorge क्षेत्रफल is a युनेस्को संसार Heritage Site, covering ironbridge, Coalbrookdale और a part of Madeley.
There are, additionally, अन्य notable ऐतिहासिक industrial sites located around the county, ऐसे as at shrewsbury, broseley, snailbeach and highley as well as the shropshire Union Canal.
The shropshire पहाड़ियाँ Area of बकाया Natural सौंदर्य covers about a quarter of the काउंटी, मुख्यतः in the दक्षिण.
shropshire is one of England 's सबसे rural और sparsely आबादी counties, with the population घनत्व of the shropshire परिषद area being बस 91/km2 ( 337/sq mi ).
The Wrekin is एक of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध natural landmarks in the county, हालांकि the highest पहाड़ियाँ हैं the clee पहाड़ियाँ, stiperstones और the Long Mynd.
wenlock किनारे is another significant geographical और geological landmark.
in the low-lying उत्तरपश्चिम of the काउंटी ( and overlapping the किनारा साथ वेल्स ) is the Fenn 's, Whixall और Bettisfield Mosses नेशनल प्रकृति Reserve, एक of the most महत्वपूर्ण और best preserved bogs in ब्रिटेन.
The नदी Severn, Great Britain 's longest नदी, runs through the county, exiting into वॉस्टरशायर via the Severn घाटी.
shropshire is landlocked, और साथ an area of, is England 's largest अंतर्देशीय काउंटी.
the काउंटी flower is the round-leaved sundew.
For eurostat उद्देश्य, the county ( कम the एकात्मक ज़िला of telford और Wrekin ) is a NUTS 3 प्रदेश ( code ukg22 ).
The two Shropshire unitary areas ( covering सब of the ceremonial काउंटी ), साथ with the authorities covering the ceremonial काउंटी of Staffordshire, comprise the `` shropshire और Staffordshire '' NUTS 2 region.
The बिग बंग Theory डाल at Comic Con 2009, इससे left : Kunal नय्यर, Simon Helberg, Kaley cuoco, Jim Parsons, and जॉनी galecki
the अमरीकी sitcom The बिग बंग सिद्धान्त, created और कार्यपालिका उत्पादित by Chuck Lorre and Bill prady, premiered on CBS on September 24, 2007.
The दिखाएँ centers on five characters : roommates Sheldon कूपर और Leonard hofstadter, two caltech physicists ; Penny, a waitress and aspiring actress जो जीवनदान आरपार the hall ; and लियोनार्ड and शेल्डन 's मित्रों and co-workers aerospace इंजीनियर हावर्ड Wolowitz, और astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali.
Over समय, अनेक supporting वर्ण have been promoted to अभिनीत roles : Leslie Winkle ( season 1 पुनरावर्ती ; season 2 नियमित ; ऋतु 3 अतिथि ), a physicist सहयोगी, और, at different times, a lover of both लियोनार्ड और Howard ; bernadette Rostenkowski-Wolowitz ( season 3 पुनरावर्ती ; season 4-present नियमित ), a microbiologist, Howard 's fiancée और subsequent wife, और पूर्व part-time waitress alongside Penny ; neuroscientist एमी farrah fowler ( season 3 guest ; season 4 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित ), who joins the समूह after होने matched to शेल्डन on a डेटिंग जालस्थल ; and comic book store-owner, स्टुअर्ट खिलते ( सीज़न 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular ), जो replaces Howard as राज 's best friend when हावर्ड is in स्पेस.
The दिखाएँ भी सुविधाएँ numerous supporting वर्ण, each of जिसको plays a prominent भूमिका in a छोटी समूह of एपीसोड.
the a-team is an American action-adventure टेलीविज़न श्रेणी, कार्यशील इससे 1983 to 1987, परिचय a fictional समूह of ex– United States फौज Special Forces कर्मियों who कार्य as soldiers of सौभाग्य, while on the run from the फौज बाद being ब्रांडेड as युद्ध criminals लिये a `` crime वे किया n't commit ``.
a विशेषता फिल्मी आधारित on the series थी released by 20th सदी Fox on जून 11, 2010.
a कॉमिक book series, A-Team : Shotgun विवाह, began March 9, 2010.
Diana प्रिंस is a fictional character appearing regularly in stories प्रकाशित by dc Comics.
वो debuted in Sensation Comics # 1 ( जनवरी 1942 ) और serves as the civilian and रहस्य identity of the superhero अचरज Woman.
The character थी निर्मित by Charles moulton और Harry G. Peter.
वाट Phra Kaew, Bangkok, Thailand
वहीँ is no आधिकारिक राज्य धर्म in the Thai constitution, which guarantees धार्मिक स्वतंत्रता for all Thai नागरिकों, हालांकि the किंग is जरूरी by law to be Buddhist.
According to the पिछला जनसांख्यिकी ( 2000 ) 94.6 % of Thais हैं बौद्धों of the Theravada परंपरा.
मुसलमान हैं the second largest धार्मिक group in थाईलैंड at 4.6 %.
Thailand 's southernmost प्रांतों - pattani, yala, Narathiwat और भाग of songkhla chumphon have dominant Muslim populations, consisting of दोनो ethnic Thai and मलय.
The दक्षिणी tip of थाईलैंड is ज़्यादातर जातीय Malays.
Christians, मुख्यतः catholics, represent 0.7 % of the population.
A छोटी लकिन influential जातियाँ of सिखों in थाईलैंड and some हिन्दुओं also live in the देश 's शहरों, and हैं heavily engaged in retail कॉमर्स.
There is भी a small यहूदी जातियाँ in Thailand, dating वापस to the 17th सदी.
चूंकि 2001, Muslim activists, generally described by the थाई government as terrorists or separatists, have rallied विरूद्ध the central सरकारी क्युकी of कथित भ्रष्टाचार and जातीय bias on the भाग of officials.
Thailand 's Department of धर्म, currently अंतर्गत the मंत्रालय of संस्कृति, is formally जिम्मेदार for the registration of धार्मिक समूह in Thailand url_http which थाम गुण through legally स्थापित मूलाधार.
It रै oversight, along साथ the Immigration पुलिस, over the work permits of प्रचारकों who are `` expatriate religious मजदूर '' of all धर्मों.
A मान added कर ( VAT ) is a रूप of खपत tax.
From the परिप्रेक्ष्य of the buyer, it is a tax on the purchase दाम.
इससे that of the seller, it is a tax only on the मान added to a उत्पाद, सामग्री, or सेवा, from an हिसाब पाइंट of दृश्य, by इस stage of इसके manufacture or वितरण.
The manufacturer remits to the government the difference between ये two amounts, और retains the बाकी लिये themselves to ऑफसेट the taxes वे था previously सशुल्क on the inputs.
The value added to a उत्पाद by or with a business is the sale price चार्ज to इसके ग्राहक, minus the लागत of materials और अन्य taxable inputs.
A vat is like a बिक्री कर in कि ultimately only the समाप्त consumer is taxed.
it differs from the बिक्री tax in कि, with the latter, the कर is एकत्रित और remitted to the सरकारी only एकबार, at the पाइंट of purchase by the end consumer.
साथ the VAT, collections, remittances to the government, and क्रेडिट for taxes already सशुल्क occur each time a कारोबार in the supply chain purchases products.
A referee calling a high-sticking penaltyHigh
-sticking is the नाम of दो infractions in the sport of ice हॉकी that may occur जब a खिलाड़ी intentionally or inadvertently plays साथ his or her स्टिक ऊपर the ऊँचाई of the कन्धों or ऊपर the cross bar of a hockey goal.
This can परिणाम in a stoppage of खेल or in a penalty.
in the नियम of the नेशनल Hockey League, high-sticking is पारिभाषित as a penalty in नियम 60 and as a non-penalty foul in Rule 80.
a stoppage in खेल परिणाम if a ऊँची stick आता in contact साथ the पक and the टोली who छुआ it regains control of the पक.
However, play usually continues if a खिलाड़ी छू the पक साथ a ऊँची स्टिक and the opposing टोली gains control of the puck.
If the puck goes into the opposing जाल after coming into contact with a ऊँची stick, the लक्ष्य is disallowed.
the level at which a स्टिक is considered too ऊँची लिये a goal is the crossbar of the जाल.
however, if a खिलाड़ी knocks the पक into his own जाल साथ a ऊँची stick, the goal is अनुमत.
a penalty is assessed if a player strikes another खिलाड़ी साथ a ऊँची stick.
The खिलाड़ी is given a minor दंड unless उसके high स्टिक caused an injury, in जिससे case the रेफरी has the विकल्प to assess a double-minor, major or match दंड.
It is the रेफरी 's discretion which दंड to assess : the नियम काल्स लिये a double नाबालिग for an accidental injury, or a match penalty for a deliberate attempt to injure ( whether the opposition खिलाड़ी was actually घायल ).
Injury is प्रायः decided by the high स्टिक causing bleeding, but the presence of रक्त does not automatically mean an अतिरिक्त penalty is awarded.
कुछ referees have been known to award an अतिरिक्त दंड बगैर the presence of रक्त if the रेफरी determines कि the injury sustained थी sufficient to warrant a double-minor penalty.
ठेठ आधुनिक मेमोरी कार्ड रीडर, compatible with many common स्वरुप
a memory card reader is a device, typically having a usb interface, for accessing the data on a मेमोरी कार्ड ऐसे as a CompactFlash ( cf ), सुरक्षित Digital ( sd ) or multimediacard ( mmc ).
सबसे card पाठक also प्रस्ताव लिखें काबिलियत, और साथ with the कार्ड, this can फलन as a pen drive.
कुछ printers and निजी computers have a built-in कार्ड reader.
A multi कार्ड रीडर is used for संचार साथ more than one प्रकार of फ्लैश मेमोरी card.
Multi card पाठक do नहीं have built-in memory capacity, लकिन are समर्थ to accept अनेक प्रकार and styles of memory cards.
the क्रमांक of compatible मेमोरी cards varies इससे रीडर to रीडर और can शामिल अधिक than 20 अलग types.
the number of different मेमोरी cards that a मल्टी कार्ड reader can accept is expressed as x-in-1, with x होने a figure of मेरिट indicating the number of memory cards accepted, ऐसे as 35-in-1.
वहीँ हैं तीन श्रेणी of card पाठक sorted by the प्रकार and मात्रा of the कार्ड slots : सिंगल कार्ड reader ( e.g. 1x sd-only ), multi कार्ड reader ( e.g. 9-in-1 ) और series card reader ( e.g. 4x sd only ).
कुछ kinds of मेमोरी cards with उनके अपना usb कृत्यों do नहीं need the card reader, ऐसे as the Intelligent Stick मेमोरी card, which can प्लग directly into a USB slot.
The USB यंत्र class used is 0x08.
धमकाना is detrimental to students ' well-being और development.
धमकाना is the उपयोग of फ़ोर्स or coercion to abuse or intimidate अन्य.
The बर्ताव can be habitual और involve an असंतुलन of social or शारीरिक शक्ति.
it can include मौखिक उत्पीड़न or threat, शारीरिक उत्पीड़न or coercion और may be निर्देशित repeatedly towards particular victims, perhaps on grounds of race, धर्म, gender, कामुकता, or क्षमता.
If धमकाना is किया by a समूह, it is called mobbing.
the victim of bullying is sometimes referred to as a `` निशाना ''.
धमकाना can be पारिभाषित in अनेक different तरीके.
The UK currently रै no विधिक definition of bullying, जबकि कुछ U.S. states have कानून विरूद्ध it.
Bullying consists of तीन basic types of abuse – emotional, verbal, और physical.
it typically involves हल्का विधि of coercion such as intimidation.
धमकाना ranges इससे सरल one-on-one धमकाना to more complex bullying in which the bully may have one or more `` lieutenants '' who may seem to be willing to assist the primary bully in उसके or her धमकाना क्रियाएँ.
धमकाना in स्कूल and the workplace is also referred to as पीर गाली.
Robert W. फुलर has analyzed bullying in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of rankism.
A bullying संस्कृति can develop in any context in जिससे human beings interact साथ each अन्य.
This includes स्कूल, गिरिजाघर, परिवार, the कार्यस्थल, घर, and पड़ोस.
प्रसन्न slapping in the Instituto क्षेत्रीय federico errázuriz, सांता क्रूज़, Chile
लौरा बुश और Rae leigh Bradbury ( formerly missing ) on अप्रैल 4, 2007, in Austin, टेक्सास, after the 8-year-old introduced mrs. Bush during घोषणा of the भविष्य खोलने of the Texas क्षेत्रीय दफ्तर of the National Center for लापता और शोषित children.
rae Leigh was the पहला चाइल्ड in the u.S. to be recovered as a result of an एम्बर चेतावनी जब she was 8 सप्ताह बूढ़ा in November 1998.
An एम्बर Alert or a चाइल्ड abduction आपात ( SAME कोड : cae ) is a child abduction alert system originating in 1996, now employed in 9 countries.
AMBER is officially a backronym लिये अमेरिका 's लापता : प्रसारण Emergency Response, नामित लिये एम्बर Hagerman, a 9-year-old abducted और murdered in Arlington, Texas in 1996.
वैकल्पिक regional alert names यहूद एकबार used ; in Georgia, `` लेवी 's Call '' ( नामित बाद लेवी frady ) ; in हवाई, `` Maile Amber चेतावनी '' ( बाद maile गिल्बर्ट ) ; और Arkansas, `` Morgan Nick Amber चेतावनी '' ( in memory of मॉर्गन Chauntel उपनाम ).
AMBER Alerts are वितरित via वाणिज्यिक radio stations, Internet रेडियो, satellite रेडियो, television stations, और केबल tv by the Emergency Alert प्रणाली और NOAA Weather Radio ( जहाँ वे हैं termed `` Child Abduction Emergency '' or `` Amber चेतावनियाँ '' ).
The alerts are भी issued via e-mail, electronic traffic-condition signs, the LED billboards which हैं located बाहर of नए Walgreens locations, along with the LED/LCD लक्षण of billboard कंपनियाँ such as Clear चैनल Outdoor, सीबीएस Outdoor and Lamar, or through बेतार device sms टेक्स्ट messages.
एम्बर Alert रै also teamed up साथ google और Facebook to relay information regarding an AMBER Alert to an कभी growing जनसांख्यिकी.
those दिलचस्पी in subscribing to प्राप्त AMBER Alerts in their area via SMS संदेश can visit Wireless Amber चेतावनियाँ, जिससे हैं offered by law as फ़्री messages.
in कुछ states, the display scrollboards in सामने of लॉटरी terminals हैं also used.
the decision to declare an AMBER Alert is made by each पुलिस organization ( in अनेक cases, the राज्य पुलिस or highway पैट्रोल ) which investigates each of the abductions.
Public information in an एम्बर Alert प्रायः consists of the नाम और description of the abductee, a वर्णन of the suspected abductor, and a वर्णन and license थाली क्रमांक of the abductor 's vehicle, if उपलब्धियाँ.
मोनिका samille lewinsky ( born July 23, 1973 ) is an American woman साथ whom संयुक्त राज्य President विधेयक Clinton admitted to having had an `` improper संबंध '' जबकि वो worked at the White House in 1995 और 1996.
The affair and its repercussions ( जिससे included Clinton 's impeachment ) became ज्ञात as the Lewinsky कांड.
House of Night is a series of vampire -themed काल्पनिक novels by American लेखक P. C. Cast and her बेटी Kristin Cast.
it follows the adventures of zoey Redbird, a sixteen-year-old लड़की जो has just become a `` fledgling vampyre '' और is जरूरी to attend the हाउस of रात्रि बोर्डिंग स्कूल in तुलसा, ओक्लाहोमा.
The श्रेणी has महरूम on the New York Times बेहतरीन विक्रेता सूची for 63 सप्ताह और there हैं over seven million नक़ल in छपाई in उत्तर America अलोन.
the छठे novel, Tempted, which went on sale on अक्तूबर 27, 2009 with a first मुद्रण of a million copies, डाला the यूएसए आज bestseller list कि week at # 1.
in January, 2010, Gezeichnet, a जर्मनी अनुवाद of Marked, reached the # 1 स्पॉट on the Der spiegel bestseller सूची.
The श्रेणी रै so far sold अधिक than ten लाख books in 39 देशों.
burned थी released on अप्रैल 27, 2010, और जैसे इम्तिहान, it entered the USA आज बेस्टसेलर सूची that सप्ताह at # 1.
awakened, released in January, 2011, भी डाला the सूची at # 1.
The series, जिससे is published by St मार्टिन 's Press is planned to शामिल twelve books.
In 2008, योजनाएँ लिये a फिल्मी adaptation यहूद भी announced.
the दसवाँ किताब in the series, छुपा, was released on अक्तूबर 16, 2012.
The दूसरी किताब in the novellas ( जिससे give पृष्ठभूमि on supporting characters ), Lenobia 's Vow, थी released जनवरी 31, 2012.
किताब eleven is currently called नाज़िल, और the Casts have घोषित that दो more novellas, neferet’s अभिशाप, planned to be released February 19, 2013, और a prequel अनोखा about Kalona, are to be released to coincide with the eleventh and बारहवीं किताबे.
In यूनानी mythology, the Trojan War थी waged against the नगर of Troy by the Achaeans ( Greeks ) after Paris of Troy took Helen from उसके husband menelaus किंग of Sparta.
the war is एक of the सबसे important events in Greek mythology and has been narrated through many works of Greek literature, सबसे notably through होमर 's Iliad and the ओडिसी.
the इलियड relates a part of the last year of the siege of ट्रॉय ; the Odyssey describes Odysseus 's यात्रा home.
अन्य भाग of the युद्ध are contained in a साईकिल of epic poems, which have बच through fragments.
एपीसोड इससे the युद्ध provided material for Greek tragedy और other works of Greek literature, and लिये Roman कवियों सहित वर्जिल and Ovid.
the war originated इससे a quarrel between the goddesses Athena, Hera, और Aphrodite, बाद eris, the देवी of strife और discord, gave उन्हें a golden apple, sometimes ज्ञात as the ठहराना of Discord, marked `` for the fairest ''.
ज़ीउस भेजा the देवियाँ to पेरिस, जो judged that aphrodite, as the `` fairest '', चाहिए receive the ठहराना.
in exchange, Aphrodite made Helen, the most beautiful of सब women और बीवी of Menelaus, fall in प्रेम साथ Paris, जो took उसके to Troy.
Agamemnon, king of mycenae and the brother of हेलेन 's husband Menelaus, led an expedition of achaean troops to ट्रॉय और besieged the नगर लिये टेन years क्युकी of पेरिस ' बेइज्जती.
बाद the deaths of अनेक नायक, including the achaeans Achilles and Ajax, and the ट्रोजन्स हेक्टर and पेरिस, the city fell to the ruse of the Trojan Horse.
The achaeans slaughtered the ट्रोजन्स ( मगर for कुछ of the women and children whom they रखा or sold as slaves ) और desecrated the temples, thus earning the gods ' प्रकोप.
few of the achaeans लौटे सकुशल to उनके घरों और अनेक संस्थापित colonies in distant shores.
The romans बाद traced उनके origin to Aeneas, one of the Trojans, जो थी said to have led the surviving ट्रोजन्स to modern-day Italy.
The प्राचीन Greeks thought कि the Trojan War थी a ऐतिहासिक event that था taken प्लेस in the 13th or 12th सदी bc, and believed कि ट्रॉय थी located in modern-day तुर्कों near the Dardanelles.
by आधुनिक times, दोनो the war and the नगर were widely believed to be non-historical.
in 1868, however, the जर्मनी पुरातत्ववेत्ताओं heinrich schliemann मिले Frank calvert, जो convinced Schliemann that ट्रॉय थी at hissarlik और schliemann took over Calvert 's excavations on प्रॉपर्टी belonging to calvert ; this अर्जी is अभी स्वीकृत by सबसे scholars.
whether there is any historical reality behind the trojan War is an खोलें सवाल.
अनेक scholars मानना that वहीँ is a historical core to the tale, though इस may बस औसत that the homeric stories are a fusion of विभिन्न tales of sieges and रिझाने by माइसीनियाई यूनानियों during the कांस्य Age.
Those जो believe that the कहानियां of the Trojan War are derived इससे a विशिष्ट ऐतिहासिक विरोध usually date it to the 12th or 11th सदियां BC, often preferring the dates given by इरैटोस्थनिज़, 1194–1184 BC, जिससे roughly corresponds with पुरातत्व प्रमाण of a अनर्थकारी burning of ट्रॉय VIIa.
Anarchists have employed निश्चित symbols for उनके कारण, सहित most prominently the circle-a and the ब्लैक ध्वज, although anarchists have historically largely denied the importance of प्रतीकों to राजनैतिक movement.
Since the revival of anarchism around the प्रारंभ of the 21st-century concurrent with the rise of the anti-globalization गति, anarchist सांस्कृतिक symbols हैं widely present.
The greater palatine कनाल ( or pterygopalatine canal ) is a passage in the कपाल कि transmits the वृहद palatine artery, रग, और तंत्रिका between the pterygopalatine fossa and the मौखिक cavity.
सतह तापमान of अंटार्कटिक in winter और गर्मियाँ इससे the European केन्द्र लिये medium-range मौसम Forecasts
the जलवायु of Antarctica is the coldest on the पूरे of Earth.
Antarctica has the न्यूनतम naturally occurring तापमान ever recorded on the ground on धरती : −89.2 °C ( −128.6 °F ) at वोस्तोक स्टेशन.
It is also extremely शुष्क ( technically a मरुस्थल ), averaging 166 mm ( 6.5 in ) of वर्षण प्रति year.
Even so, on most भाग of the महाद्वीप the हिम rarely melts and is आखिरकार compressed to become the glacial बर्फ कि makes up the बर्फ चादर.
मौसम fronts rarely penetrate दूर into the continent.
Most of Antarctica has an ice कैप climate ( Köppen EF ) with बहुत cold, generally अत्यधिक शुष्क मौसम throughout the year and no माह averaging above 0 °c ( 32 °f ).
Some फ्रिंज तटीय क्षेत्रों have a tundra जलवायु ( Köppen ET ) साथ a short गर्मियाँ averaging above freezing, और much उच्चतर वर्षण.
Current head कोच माइक tomlin, during the 2007 ऋतु
The पिट्सबर्ग Steelers franchise has था 16 सिर coaches throughout its history.
संस्थापित as the Pittsburgh pirates in, the नाम थी changed to the स्टीलर्स prior to the season to celebrate the city 's विरासत of producing steel.
जो Bach परोसा two separate शर्तें as head कोच and वॉल्ट Kiesling served तीन separate शर्तें.
दौरान the and सीज़न, due to the amount of players who fought in World युद्ध ii, the Steelers combined उनके team with फिलाडेल्फिया और Chicago, respectively.
During ये seasons, Steelers ' coach Walt Kiesling shared coaching कर्तव्य with Greasy Neale and Phil हैंडलर, who have नहीं been शामिल भीतर this list.
struggling for much of the मताधिकार 's early सालो, the team 's first season with more विन्स than losses थी coached by Jock sutherland in.
in, अंतर्गत sutherland, the Steelers played उनके first playoff खेल against the Philadelphia ईगल्स.
टेन of the 16 head coaches spent उनके संपूर्ण पेशेवर coaching करियर with the franchise, सहित John mcnally, वॉल्ट kiesling और चक Noll, who have also been voted into the प्रो फ़ुटबॉल हॉल of Fame.
एक of only चार men to कोच the same team लिये 23 सालो, Chuck noll रिटायर्ड in.
noll is भी the only कोच in नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग इतिहास to जीत चार सुपर Bowls.
विधेयक cowher, noll 's बदलना, coached the Steelers to their पांचवां सुपर Bowl victory, in 2005.
The स्टीलर्स छठे सुपर कटोरी जीत आए in Super Bowl XLIII, जबकि सिर coached by माइक tomlin, the team 's current सिर coach.
In दण्ड law, धोखाधड़ी is intentional deception made for निजी gain or to damage another व्यक्तिगत ; the related क्रियाशील is बेईमान, and verb is defraud.
धोखाधड़ी is a crime and a civil law उल्लंघन, though the विशिष्ट criminal विधि परिभाषा varies by विधिक jurisdiction.
Defrauding लोगों or entities of money or valuables is a common purpose of fraud.
a hoax also involves deception, but without the intention of लाभ or of damaging or depriving the victim.
Fraud is a defense in a civil action for breach of अनुबंध or specific performance of a अनुबंध.
धोखाधड़ी is a basis for equitable क्षेत्राधिकार.
Passover, or pesach ( from : in Hebrew, Yiddish ), Tiberian :, Modern यहूदी : /ˈpesaχ/ Pesah, Pesakh, Yiddish : peysekh, Paysakh, paysokh ) is an महत्वपूर्ण Biblically -derived Jewish festival.
historically, साथ साथ Shavuot ( `` Pentecost '' ) and sukkot ( `` Tabernacles '' ), passover is एक of the तीन यात्राएं त्यौहार ( Shalosh regalim ) during which the संपूर्ण जनसांख्यिकी of the kingdom of Judah बना a यात्राएं to the Temple in जेरूसलम.
Samaritans स्टिल make इस pilgrimage to माउंट Gerizim, लकिन only मेन participate in पब्लिक worship.
Passover commences on the 15th of the यहूदी month of nisan and lasts for either seven दिनों ( in Israel ) or eight days ( in the diaspora ).
in judaism, a day commences at dusk and lasts जबतक the following dusk, thus the first दिन of passover तभी begins बाद dusk of the 14th of Nisan और ends at dusk of the 15th day of the माह of nisan.
the संस्कार unique to the passover celebrations commence साथ the passover seder जब the 15th of nisan रै begun.
In the Northern Hemisphere passover takes प्लेस in spring as the तोरा prescribes it : `` in the month of [ the ] spring '' ( בחדש האביב ).
It is one of the सबसे widely observed यहूदी छुट्टियाँ.
The Jewish लोगों celebrate passover as a commemoration of उनके liberation over 3,300 सालो ago by God from slavery in प्राचीन मिश्र that was शासित by the Pharaohs, और उनके birth as a स्वदेश under the नेतृत्व of Moses.
it commemorates the स्टोरी of the Exodus as described in the Hebrew बाइबल विशेषकर in the Book of exodus, in जिससे the Israelites यहूद freed from गुलामी in मिश्र.
In the narrative of the Exodus, the Bible tells कि परमेश्वर helped the children of इसराईल एस्केप इससे their गुलामी in मिश्र by inflicting ten plagues upon the ancient उन्होंने पहले the Pharaoh होता release his Israelite स्लेव ; the दसवाँ and worst of the plagues was the मौत of the Egyptian first-born.
The israelites यहूद instructed to चिह्नित the doorposts of their घरों साथ the रक्त of a slaughtered spring lamb and, upon seeing इस, the spirit of the रब knew to pass over the first-born in ये घरों, hence the name of the holiday.
There is some बहस over जहाँ the term is दरअसल निकला from.
जब the pharaoh freed the Israelites, it is कहा कि they बाएँ in such a hurry that वे could नहीं इंतजार लिये ब्रैड आटा to वृद्धि ( leaven ).
In commemoration, लिये the duration of Passover no leavened ब्रैड is खाया, लिये जिससे कारण it is called `` the पर्व of the Unleavened ब्रैड ''.
Thus matzo ( flat unleavened ब्रैड ) is eaten during passover and it is a प्रतीक of the अवकाश.
Halley 's धूमकेतु or Comet हैली ( or ), officially designated 1P/Halley, is the best-known of the short-period धूमकेतुओं और is दृश्य इससे धरती every 75–76 सालो.
हैली is the only short-period comet कि is clearly दृश्य to the naked eye इससे Earth, और thus the तभी naked-eye धूमकेतु कि might appear twice in a इंसान lifetime.
अन्य naked-eye comets may be उज्जवल और more spectacular, लकिन होगा appear only once in हज़ारों of years.
Halley 's रिटर्न to the भीतरी सौर प्रणाली have महरूम observed और recorded by खगोलशास्त्रियों since at least 240 BCE.
साफ records of the comet 's appearances were बना by Chinese, babylonian, और medieval यूरोपीय chroniclers, लकिन यहूद not पहचाना as reappearances of the वही object at the समय.
The comet 's periodicity was first determined in 1705 by English astronomer edmond Halley, बाद whom it is अभी नामित.
Halley 's Comet last appeared in the inner सौर System in 1986 and होगा next appear in mid-2061.
दौरान its 1986 apparition, हैली became the first धूमकेतु to be observed in विवरण by spacecraft, providing the first observational आंकड़ा on the structure of a धूमकेतु nucleus and the mechanism of coma और tail गठन.
ये observations समर्थित a क्रमांक of longstanding hypotheses about धूमकेतु निर्माण, विशेषकर Fred whipple 's `` गंदा snowball '' मॉडल, जिससे correctly predicted that हैली होता be रचित of a मिश्रण of volatile ices – ऐसे as water, कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड and ammonia – and धूल.
the मिशन भी provided आंकड़ा जिससे substantially reformed और reconfigured these ideas ; for उदाहरण it is अभी समझा कि Halley 's सतह is largely composed of dusty, non-volatile सामग्री, and that only a small portion of it is icy.
Anti-communism is विपक्ष to communism.
व्यवस्थित anti-communism विकसित in प्रतिक्रिया to the वृद्धि of साम्यवादी, विशेषकर बाद the 1917 अक्तूबर क्रान्ति in Russia और reaching वैश्विक आयाम during the Cold War.
सबसे anti-communists reject the concept of ऐतिहासिक भौतिकवाद, which is a central idea in मार्क्सवाद.
Anti-communists reject the Marxist belief that capitalism होगा be followed by समाजवादी और communism, बस as सामंतवाद थी followed by पूंजीवाद.
anti-communists सवाल the validity of the मार्क्सवादी claim that the समाजवादी state होगा `` wither दूर '' when it becomes unnecessary in a सच्चा कम्युनिस्ट society.
anti-communists argue that the दमन in the early सालो of bolshevik rule, जबकि not as चरम as कि दौरान Joseph Stalin 's rule, was still कठोर by reasonable standards, citing examples ऐसे as Felix dzerzhinsky 's रहस्य police, which eliminated numerous political प्रतिद्वंद्वियों by extrajudicial executions, and the क्रूर crushing of the Kronstadt rebellion और tambov rebellion.
Some anti-communists refer to दोनो Communism and fascism as totalitarianism, seeing similarity between the actions of कम्युनिस्ट and फासिस्ट governments.
इतिहासकार रॉबर्ट conquest has argued कि Communism थी जिम्मेदार लिये tens of लाखो of मौतों दौरान the 20th century.
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों argue कि Communist पार्टियों कि have आइये to शक्ति have tended to be rigidly intolerant of political opposition.
These opponents अर्जी कि सबसे कम्युनिस्ट countries have shown no लक्षण of advancing from मार्क्स 's समाजवादी स्टेज of अर्थव्यवस्था to an ideal communist स्टेज.
बल्कि, Communist सरकारें have महरूम अभियुक्त of creating a नई ruling class ( a Nomenklatura ), साथ powers और privileges वृहद than those previously enjoyed by the अपर classes in the non- communist regimes.
Gil Heron ( 9 अप्रैल 1922 – 27 November 2008 ) थी a Jamaican professional footballer.
he was the first ब्लैक खिलाड़ी to खेल लिये Scottish क्लबों सेल्टिक, और थी the father of poet और musician Gil Scott-Heron.
he died in डेट्रॉयट of a दिल attack on 27 नवम्बर 2008.
The soybean ( us ) or soya bean ( UK ) ( Glycine max ) is a प्रजाति of legume देशी to East एशिया, widely grown लिये इसके खाद्य सेम which has numerous uses.
the संयंत्र is classed as an oilseed बल्कि than a पल्स by the un Food और agricultural Organization ( FAO ).
Fat-free ( defatted ) soybean meal is a significant and सस्ती source of प्रोटीन for animal feeds और अनेक prepackaged meals ; soy सब्ज़ी आयल is another उत्पाद of processing the सोयाबीन क्रॉप.
लिये उदाहरण, soybean products such as textured vegetable protein ( tvp ) are संघटक in many meat and dairy analogues.
soybeans उपज significantly more प्रोटीन प्रति acre than most अन्य uses of जमीन.
परंपरागत nonfermented खाना उपयोग of soybeans include सोया milk, और इससे the latter टोफू and tofu स्किन.
Fermented भोजन शामिल सोया sauce, fermented bean paste, natto, and tempeh, among अन्य.
The आयल is प्रयुक्त in अनेक औद्योगिक अनुप्रयोग.
the main निर्माता of soy हैं the संयुक्त राज्य ( 35 % ), Brazil ( 27 % ), Argentina ( 19 % ), China ( 6 % ) and India ( 4 % ).
the सेम contain significant amounts of phytic acid, alpha-linolenic acid, and isoflavones.
हैरिसन Ford ( born July 13, 1942 ) is an American फिल्मी actor and producer.
he is famous for his performances as हान Solo in the original Star युद्धों त्रयी और the title character of the इंडियाना जोन्स फिल्मी श्रेणी.
Ford is भी ज्ञात लिये his भूमिकाएँ as रिक deckard in Blade Runner, जॉन किताब in Witness और Jack रयान in patriot खेल और साफ and उपस्थित Danger.
उसके करियर has spanned छह decades और शामिल भूमिकाएँ in several हॉलीवुड blockbusters, including presumed निर्दोष, The Fugitive, Air फ़ोर्स एक, and कया Lies beneath.
At one पाइंट, four of the शीर्ष छह box-office हिट्स of all समय शामिल एक of his भूमिकाएँ.
पाँच of उसके films have been inducted into the नेशनल Film रजिस्ट्री.
in 1997, घाट was क्रमित No. 1 in Empire `` The शीर्ष 100 फिल्म Stars of सब Time '' list.
, the United States domestic box office grosses of Ford 's films कुल over US $ 3.5 अरब, साथ worldwide grosses surpassing $ 6 billion, making Ford the तीसरा उच्चतम grossing U.S. domestic box-office star.
Ford is the husband of actress calista flockhart.
a tube of ChapStick
chapstick is a brand name for lip balm manufactured by फाइजर Consumer Healthcare और प्रयुक्त in many countries worldwide.
It is intended to help दावत और prevent chapped lips ; hence the नाम.
अनेक varieties भी शामिल सनस्क्रीन in order to prevent sunburn.
Due to इसके लोकप्रियता, the पद रै become a genericized ट्रेडमार्क.
It popularly refers to any लिप balm contained in a lipstick-style ट्यूब and लागू in the same manner as लिपस्टिक.
however, the पद is still a registered trademark, साथ rights exclusively स्वामित्व by Pfizer.
In स्वीडन and in the United किंगडम, the उत्पाद 's main competitor is Lypsyl, बना by novartis उपभोक्ता स्वास्थ्य, जिससे is distributed in similar packaging to ChapStick.
George बर्कली ( ; 12 March 168514 January 1753 ), also known as Bishop Berkeley ( Bishop of Cloyne ), थी an anglo-irish पारस जिनकी प्राथमिक achievement थी the उन्नति of a सिद्धान्त he called `` immaterialism '' ( later referred to as `` subjective आदर्शवाद `` by others ).
इस theory denies the existence of सामग्री पदार्थ और instead contends that familiar objects जैसे टेबल and chairs are only ideas in the minds of perceivers, and as a परिणाम can not exist without being perceived.
यूँ, as Berkeley famously put it, लिये physical objects `` esse est percipi '' ( `` to be is to be perceived `` ).
Berkeley is भी ज्ञात for उसके critique of abstraction, an important आधार in his तर्क for immaterialism.
In 1709, बर्कली प्रकाशित his पहला major कार्य,, in जिससे he discussed the limitations of human दृष्टि और advanced the theory कि the proper objects of sight are नहीं material वस्तुएँ, but light and रंग.
This foreshadowed his chief philosophical कार्य A Treatise Concerning the सिद्धान्त of इंसान ज्ञान in 1710 जिससे, बाद इसके ग़रीब रिसेप्शन, he rewrote in dialogue form and प्रकाशित अंतर्गत the शीर्षक Three Dialogues between Hylas और Philonous in 1713.
in इस किताब, बर्कली 's views यहूद represented by philonous ( यूनानी : 'lover of mind ' ), जबकि Hylas ( यूनानी : 'matter ' ) embodies the आयरिश thinker’s प्रतिद्वंद्वियों, in particular जॉन Locke.
बर्कली argued विरूद्ध Sir Isaac Newton 's doctrine of absolute space, समय and motion in De मोटू ( on गति ), published 1721.
उसके वितर्क were a precursor to the views of Mach and Einstein.
In 1732, he प्रकाशित Alciphron, a Christian क्षमाप्रार्थी against the free-thinkers, और in 1734, he published The Analyst, an empiricist critique of the foundations of infinitesimal calculus, which was influential in the development of mathematics.
उसके पिछला major philosophical work, siris ( 1744 ), begins by advocating the औषधीय use of tar जल, और तब continues to discuss a wide दायरा of topics including विज्ञान, philosophy, और धर्मशास्त्र.
Interest in बर्कली 's work increased बाद संसार युद्ध II, because he tackled many of the issues of paramount interest to दर्शनशास्त्र in the 20th सदी ऐसे as the problems of बोध, the अंतर between प्राथमिक और द्वितीयक qualities, और the महत्व of भाषा.
चिंगदाओ ( ), historically known as Tsingtao, is a प्रमुख city in eastern Shandong प्रांत, पूर्वी चीन, with a जनसांख्यिकी of over 8.715 लाख ( 2010 census ).
इसके built up area, made of 6 शहरी जिले and 4 county-level शहरों, is home to about 4,896,000 निवासियों in 2010.
it सीमायें Yantai to the पूर्वोत्तर, weifang to the वेस्ट and rizhao to the दक्षिणपश्चिम.
Qīng ( ) in चाइनीज अर्थात् `` green '' or `` रसीले '', while dǎo ( ) means `` island ''.
चिंगदाओ is administered at the sub-provincial level.
Lying आरपार the शानदोंग Peninsula जबकि looking आउट to the Yellow समुद्र, Qingdao is a major seaport, naval आधार, and औद्योगिक centre.
it is भी the site of the tsingtao Brewery.
the world 's longest समुद्र सेतु, the Qingdao haiwan सेतु, links the प्रमुख urban क्षेत्रफल of चिंगदाओ साथ Huangdao ज़िला, straddling the Jiaozhou Bay sea क्षेत्रों.
चिंगदाओ is named China 's सबसे livable नगर.
Mimivirus is a viral genus containing a single पहचाना species named acanthamoeba polyphaga mimivirus ( APMV ), or is a group of phylogenetically सम्बन्धित large viruses ( designated प्रायः mimin ).
In colloquial speech, apmv is more commonly referred to as just `` mimivirus ''.
जबतक अक्तूबर 2011, जब a larger वायरस megavirus chilensis थी described, it had the largest capsid व्यास of सब ज्ञात viruses.
mimivirus has a विशाल और complex genome compared साथ most अन्य वाइरस.
mimivirus, छोटी लिये `` mimicking microbe '', is so पुकारा to reflect its विशाल size और apparent gram-staining properties.
The Mexican War of स्वतंत्रता ( 1810–1821 ) was an armed विरोध between the लोगों of मैक्सिको and the स्पेनी औपनिवेशिक authorities which started on सितंबर 16, 1810.
The गति, जिससे became known as the Mexican युद्ध of Independence, थी led by mexican-born spaniards, Mestizos और amerindians जो sought independence इससे Spain.
it started as an आदर्शवादी peasants ' विद्रोह विरूद्ध their औपनिवेशिक masters, लकिन ended as an unlikely alliance between Mexican ex-royalists और Mexican छापामार insurgents.
Crohn 's बीमारी, also known as Crohn सिंड्रोम और regional enteritis, is a प्रकार of inflammatory bowel बीमारी that may affect कोई part of the जठरांत्र tract इससे mouth to anus, causing a चौड़ी किस्में of symptoms.
It primarily कल्याणकारी abdominal pain, diarrhea ( जिससे may be खूनी if सूजन is at इसके worst ), उल्टी ( can be निरन्तर ), or वज़न loss, but may also कारण complications बाहर the जठरांत्र tract such as स्किन rashes, गठिया, सूजन of the eye, tiredness, and lack of विशेषज्ञता.
Crohn 's बीमारी is caused by interactions between environmental, immunological और bacterial कारकों in genetically susceptible individuals.
इस परिणाम in a chronic inflammatory विकार, in जिससे the देह 's प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली attacks the जठरांत्र ट्रैक्ट possibly directed at सूक्ष्मजैविक antigens.
crohn 's बीमारी has wrongly been described as an असंक्राम्य disease in the past ; recent investigators have described it as an immune कमियां state.
There is a genetic association साथ crohn 's disease, primarily साथ variations of the nod2 gene और इसके protein, which होश bacterial कोशिका walls.
सहोदर of affected individuals are at higher risk.
males and females हैं बराबर affected.
smokers are दो टाइम्स more संभावित to develop Crohn 's disease than nonsmokers.
Crohn 's बीमारी affects between 400,000 और 600,000 people in North America.
Prevalence estimates for Northern यूरोपीय have ranged इससे 27–48 प्रति 100,000.
Crohn 's बीमारी tends to उपस्थित initially in the किशोर and twenties, with another peak incidence in the fifties to seventies, although the disease can occur at कोई age.
There is no ज्ञात फार्मास्युटिकल or surgical cure लिये crohn 's बीमारी.
उपचार विकल्प हैं restricted to controlling symptoms, maintaining remission, और preventing पतन.
The बीमारी was नामित बाद gastroenterologist burrill Bernard Crohn, who, in 1932, साथ with two अन्य colleagues at माउंट sinai Hospital in नई York, वर्णित a श्रेणी of मरीजों साथ सूजन of the terminal ileum, the क्षेत्रफल सबसे commonly affected by the illness.
इस is an incomplete list of the tallest buildings और structures by country.
The list सीधे शामिल the tallest इमारतें और structures for प्रत्येक देश, and where appropriate, it also points to more विस्तृत country-specific lists.
अशिष्ट और तैयार is a census-designated प्लेस in नेवाडा काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, संयुक्त States.
it is स्तिथ वेस्ट of ग्रास घाटी, California, लगभग 62 miles ( 100 km ) इससे sacramento.
The जनसांख्यिकी was 963 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
YouTube is a video-sharing website, निर्मित by three पूर्व paypal employees in February 2005, on which users can upload, view and share वीडियो.
the company is based in San Bruno, California, और उपयोग Adobe फ्लैश Video और html5 technology to display a चौड़ी variety of user-generated video सामग्री, सहित movie क्लिप्स, TV clips, और म्यूज़िक वीडियो, as well as amateur content such as video blogging, short असली videos, और शैक्षणिक videos.
सबसे of the content on youtube has been अपलोड by individuals, although मीडिया corporations सहित सीबीएस, the बीबीसी, vevo, Hulu, and other संगठन offer कुछ of their सामग्री via the site, as भाग of the YouTube partnership कार्यक्रम.
Unregistered उपयोक्ता can watch वीडियो, while registered users can upload an असीमित क्रमांक of videos.
वीडियो माना to contain potentially offensive content are available only to पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता at least 18 years old.
in नवम्बर 2006, YouTube, LLC was खरीदा by google लिये us $ 1.65 अरब, and operates as a subsidiary of Google.
सिस्टर Act is a musical लिखा by cheri steinkellner and Bill Steinkellner साथ अतिरिक्त किताब सामग्री by Douglas कार्टर Beane, with lyrics by Glenn स्लेटर और म्यूज़िक by Alan Menken.
it is based on the hit 1992 फिल्मी comedy of the वही नाम.
The 2009 West End production was उत्पादित by Stage Entertainment, Whoopi Goldberg, and माइकल रेनो for Sis Acts LLC.
Goldberg is भी a निर्माता of the 2011 Broadway अनुकूलन.
microsoft DirectX is a संग्रहण of application programming interfaces ( APIs ) for handling tasks related to multimedia, विशेषकर खेल programming and वीडियो, on Microsoft प्लेटफ़ॉर्म.
originally, the names of these api सब began with Direct, ऐसे as direct3d, DirectDraw, directmusic, directplay, directsound, और so forth.
the नाम डाइरेक्टएक्स was coined as आशुलिपि term for सब of ये api ( the x खड़ा in लिये the particular API names ) और जल्द became the नाम of the संग्रहण.
When Microsoft later नियत out to develop a गेमिंग कंसोल, the X थी प्रयुक्त as the basis of the name Xbox to indicate that the console थी based on DirectX प्रौद्योगिकी.
the x आरंभिक रै महरूम carried forward in the naming of APIs designed for the एक्सबॉक्स such as xinput और the cross-platform ऑडियो सृष्टि Tool ( xact ), while the डाइरेक्टएक्स पैटर्न has been continued for खिड़कियाँ APIs such as direct2d और directwrite.
direct3d ( the 3D ग्राफिक्स API भीतर DirectX ) is widely used in the विकास of video games लिये Microsoft Windows, microsoft Xbox, microsoft एक्सबॉक्स 360 और some Sega dreamcast खेल.
Direct3D is also used by अन्य software अनुप्रयोग for visualization and graphics tasks such as CAD/CAM अभियान्त्रिकी.
as direct3d is the most widely publicized घटक of DirectX, it is common to देखिए the names `` डाइरेक्टएक्स '' and `` direct3d '' प्रयुक्त interchangeably.
the डाइरेक्टएक्स software विकास kit ( sdk ) consists of runtime पुस्तकालयों in redistributable binary form, along साथ accompanying documentation और headers लिये use in कोडिंग.
originally, the runtimes were तभी installed by games or explicitly by the उपयोक्ता.
खिड़कियाँ 95 did not लॉन्च साथ डाइरेक्टएक्स, लकिन DirectX थी included with Windows 95 oem सेवा रिलीज 2.
Windows 98 और Windows nt 4.0 both shipped साथ डाइरेक्टएक्स, as रै प्रत्येक version of Windows released चूंकि.
The SDK is उपलब्धियाँ as a फ़्री download.
जबकि the runtimes are proprietary, closed-source तन्त्र, source code is provided लिये most of the SDK नमूने.
Starting साथ the release of Windows 8 Developer पूर्वावलोकन, DirectX sdk has महरूम integrated into Windows SDK.
direct3d 9Ex, Direct3D 10, and direct3d 11 हैं only available for खिड़कियाँ Vista and newer क्युकी each of ये new संस्करण थी built to निर्भर upon the new खिड़कियाँ प्रदर्शक Driver मॉडल कि थी introduced लिये खिड़कियाँ विस्टा.
The नई vista/wddm graphics architecture includes a नई वीडियो मेमोरी मैनेजर supporting virtualization of ग्राफिक्स hardware for विभिन्न applications and services जैसे the डेस्कटॉप Window मैनेजर.
quetzaltenango, also commonly known by इसके स्वदेशी name, Xelajú, or अधिक commonly, xela, is the second largest city of Guatemala.
It is दोनो the पूंजी of quetzaltenango विभाग और the नगरपालिका seat of Quetzaltenango नगरपालिका.
it रै an estimated population of 224,703.
the जनसांख्यिकी is परिचय 61 % स्वदेशी or Amerindian, 34 % Mestizo or ladino and 5 % European.
Quetzaltenango is located in a mountain valley at an उन्नयन of 2,330 मीटर ( 7,655 ft ) above समुद्र स्तर at its न्यूनतम part.
it may reach ऊपर 2,400 meters भीतर the नगर.
The Municipality of quetzaltenango consists of an area of.
municipalities abutting the municipality of Quetzaltenango include : Salcajá, Cantel, almolonga, zunil, el Palmar, Concepción chiquirichapa, सैन Mateo, La Esperanza, Olintepeque, और San Andrés xecul.
सब ये municipalities are भाग of the Department of Quetzaltenango, मगर San आन्द्रेस xecul जिससे is a part of the विभाग of totonicapán.
the एपिक of Gilgamesh, an एपिक poem इससे Mesopotamia, is amongst the earliest surviving works of साहित्य.
The साहित्यिक इतिहास of Gilgamesh begins साथ five स्वतंत्र Sumerian poems about 'Bilgamesh ' ( Sumerian लिये gilgamesh ), king of uruk.
Four of ये यहूद प्रयुक्त as सोर्स सामग्री लिये a combined epic in Akkadian.
इस पहला संयुक्त epic, ज्ञात as the `` Old Babylonian '' संस्करण, तिथियाँ to the 18th सदी BC and is titled बाद इसके incipit, shūtur एली sharrī ( `` surpassing All अन्य Kings '' ).
Only a few fragments of it have survived.
the later `` Standard babylonian '' संस्करण तिथियाँ from the 13th to the 10th सदियां bc और bears the incipit शा naqba īmuru ( `` He जो Saw the गहन '' ).
Fragments of लगभग two thirds of इस longer, twelve-tablet संस्करण have महरूम recovered.
Some of the best नक़ल यहूद खोजा in the library तबाह of the 7th-century BC assyrian king Ashurbanipal.
the story centers on a दोस्ती between Gilgamesh and enkidu.
Enkidu is a जंगली man created by the gods as gilgamesh 's equal to distract उसे from oppressing the people of Uruk.
साथ, वे journey to the देवदार पहाड़ to defeat humbaba, its monstrous guardian.
Later वे मार the Bull of स्वर्ग, जिससे the goddess इश्तार भेजना to सजा Gilgamesh for spurning उसके advances.
As a punishment for these क्रियाएँ, the gods sentence enkidu to death.
the दूसरी हाफ of the epic focuses on gilgamesh 's distress at Enkidu 's मौत, और उसके क्वेस्ट लिये अमरत्व.
In अनुक्रम to learn the रहस्य of eternal life, gilgamesh undertakes a long और perilous journey.
he learns that `` The life that तुम are seeking तुम will never ढूँढें.
जब the gods निर्मित man वे allotted to उसे death, but life वे retained in उनके own keeping. ''
This quote थी originally attributed to siduri in the Old babylonian version of the epic, and तब attributed to the immortal flood hero Utnapishtim in the Akkadian संस्करण of the एपिक.
nevertheless, Gilgamesh 's कीर्ति lived on बाद his death, क्युकी of उसके great building प्रोजेक्ट, and उसके खाता of what utnapishtim बताई उसे happened during the बाढ़.
The स्टोरी रै महरूम translated into many different languages, and gilgamesh has चूंकि become adapted in works of popular fiction.
There are numerous debates over जो created the first video खेल, with the जवाब depending largely on कैसा video खेल हैं defined.
The evolution of वीडियो खेल represents a tangled web of अनेक अलग उद्योग, including scientific, computer, arcade, and उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स.
the `` वीडियो '' in `` वीडियो खेल `` traditionally refers to a raster display device.
साथ the popular कैच phrase use of the पद `` video game '', the पद now implies सब प्रदर्शक types, स्वरुप, and प्लेटफ़ॉर्म.
इतिहासकारों have भी sought to बायपास the issue by बजाय using the more specific `` digital games '' वर्णनात्मक.
इस term leaves out the earlier analog-based कंप्यूटर games.
This is a सूची of best-selling वीडियो खेल franchises कि have sold or shipped at तनिक 5 million नक़ल.
जबतक otherwise stated, numbers indicate worldwide units बेची, ordered alphabetically whenever दो or more सूची the वही amount.
The एक्सेप्शन हैं the ones specifying शिपमेंट, जिससे have lower precedence than अन्य लिस्टिंग बिक्री.
मताधिकार sales include विस्तार packs भी though वे are नहीं माना full वीडियो games.
For best-selling individual वीडियो games, see List of best-selling video खेल.
the sales आंकड़े given below do नहीं include arcade खेल बिक्री, जिससे can be मिला at List of highest-grossing arcade video games.
– इस color indicates a sub-series of a larger वीडियो खेल मताधिकार.
इस does not necessarily लागू लिये series that हैं not video game-based.
Dorothy ऐन विलिस Richards ( September 1, 1933 – सितंबर 13, 2006 ) was an अमरीकी राजनेता और the 45th Governor of Texas.
She पहला came to national ध्यान as the राज्य treasurer of Texas, when वो delivered the keynote पता at the 1988 लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल सम्मेलन.
रिचर्ड्स परोसा as the 45th Governor of टेक्सास इससे 1991 to 1995 and was defeated for re-election in 1994 by जार्ज W. Bush.
Ann रिचर्ड्स थी the second female राज्यपाल of टेक्सास.
Data निष्पादन Prevention ( dep ) is a security feature शामिल in modern operating प्रणालियों.
it is known to be available in लिनक्स, मैक os x, आईओएस, Microsoft खिड़कियाँ और Android ऑपरेटिंग systems और is intended to prevent an application or service from निष्पादित code इससे a non-executable मेमोरी प्रदेश.
This helps prevent certain कारनामे that स्टोर code via a buffer overflow, for example.
DEP runs in two modes : hardware-enforced dep लिये CPUs that can mark मेमोरी पृष्ठों as nonexecutable, and software-enforced dep साथ सीमित सुरक्षा for CPUs that do not have hardware support.
Software-enforced dep करता not protect विरूद्ध निष्पादन of कोड in आंकड़ा pages, लकिन instead counters SEH मिटाकर, another प्रकार of आक्रमण.
dep was introduced on Linux in 2004 ( कर्नेल 2.6.8 ), on खिड़कियाँ in 2004 साथ Windows xp सेवा Pack 2, जबकि Apple introduced dep जब वे moved to x86 in 2006.
Example उदाहरण of two आम futanari variants
, is the जापानी word for hermaphroditism, जिससे is also used in a broader भाव for androgyny.
परे जापानी the term is प्रयुक्त to describe a commonly pornographic विधा of computer खेल, comics और animations, जिससे includes characters that show both प्राथमिक यौन विशेषताएँ.
But in today 's language it refers almost exclusively लिये characters जो have an overall feminine appearance.
In कि मामला the पद is भी प्रायः abbreviated as futa ( s ), which is occasionally also प्रयुक्त as term for the works itself.
जल्दी CAPTCHAs such as these, generated by the ez-gimpy program, were used on Yahoo !
a modern CAPTCHA, बल्कि than attempting to create a distorted background और ऊँची स्तर of warping on the टेक्स्ट, might फ़ोकस on making segmentation मुश्किल by adding an angled line.
another way to मेक segmentation मुश्किल is to crowd प्रतीकों साथ, as in याहू ! 's वर्तमान CAPTCHA format.
कुछ captchas कोशिश to utilize the ability of लोगों to see three-dimensional वस्तुएँ.
On इस चित्र, symbols हैं drawn with लाइनों of different मोटाई to मेक an प्रभाव of extrusion.
A CAPTCHA ( ) is a type of challenge-response परीक्षण used in computing as an attempt to ensure that the जवाब is उत्पन्न by a human being.
the process प्रायः involves a computer पूछे a user to पूरा a simple test which the computer is समर्थ to ग्रेड.
ये tests हैं designed to be easy लिये a कंप्यूटर to generate लकिन मुश्किल लिये a कंप्यूटर to solve, but again easy for a इंसान.
If a correct solution is प्राप्त, it can be presumed to have been entered by a इंसान.
a common प्रकार of CAPTCHA requires the user to type अक्षर and/or digits from a distorted चित्र कि appears on the screen.
ऐसे परीक्षण हैं commonly प्रयुक्त to prevent अनावश्यक अंतरजाल bots इससे accessing वेबसाइटों, since a सामान्य इंसान can easily पढ़ा a captcha, while the bot can नहीं process the चित्र अक्षर and इसलिए, can not answer properly, or at सब.
हालांकि सबसे captchas are अक्षर तस्वीरें randomly उत्पन्न, many of them have become मुश्किल even लिये a इंसान to पढ़ा, so picture captchas were निर्मित in जिससे a human is shown a सरल परीक्षण to दिखाएँ a picture of a certain एनिमल ( given few एनिमल pictures ), which is सरल for a human being to process, और therefore easy to चुनें, while a bot can नहीं प्रक्रम और solve the सवाल क्युकी although it can analyze the picture, it can नहीं easily अंदाज़ा the animal.
the पद `` captcha '' थी coined in 2000 by लुइस वोन ahn, मैनुएल ब्लम, निकोलस J. Hopper, and John Langford ( all of कार्नेगी mellon University ).
It is an एक्रोनिम based on the word `` capture '' and standing लिये `` Completely स्वचालित Public Turing परीक्षण to बताना Computers and Humans Apart ''.
Carnegie Mellon विश्वविद्यालयों attempted to trademark the पद on 15 October 2004, but the ट्रेडमार्क application थी abandoned on 21 April 2008.
a CAPTCHA is sometimes described as a reverse turing test, क्युकी it is administered by a machine and targeted at a इंसान, in contrast to the standard Turing परीक्षण that is typically administered by a human and targeted at a यंत्र.
Jacques-Yves cousteau ( ; commonly ज्ञात in English as Jacques Cousteau ; 11 जून 1910 – 25 June 1997 ) was a फ्रेंच नवल अधिकारी, एक्सप्लोरर, conservationist, फिल्मकार, innovator, वैज्ञानिक, फ़ोटोग्राफ़र, author and researcher जो पढ़ाई the sea and सब forms of life in जल.
He co-developed the Aqua-Lung, pioneered marine संरक्षण और was a सदस्य of the académie française.
केएफसी ( केंटकी fried मुर्गा ) is a fast खाना रेस्तरां chain headquartered in louisville, Kentucky, संयुक्त States, जिससे specializes in fried chicken.
An `` अमरीकी प्रतीक '', it is the world 's second largest restaurant chain overall ( as measured by sales ) बाद मैकडोनाल्ड 's, साथ over 18,000 आउटलेट in 120 देशों और territories.
The company is a subsidiary of Yum !
Brands, a रेस्तरां company which also owns Pizza हट and टैको घंटी.
केएफसी थी founded by harland Sanders, जो began selling fried मुर्गा इससे his roadside रेस्तरां in Corbin, Kentucky during the Great Depression.
सैंडर्स was one of the first लोगों to see the potential of the restaurant फ़्रेंचाइज़िंग अवधारणा, साथ the पहला `` Kentucky fried Chicken '' मताधिकार opening in Utah in 1952.
the franchise popularized मुर्गा in the fast खाना उद्योग, thereby diversifying the market and challenging the दबदबा of the हैमबर्गर.
विपणन खुद as `` कर्नल Sanders '', he became a legendary फिगर of American cultural history, and his चित्र is still prominently used in केएफसी branding.
the कम्पनी 's रैपिड विस्तार saw it grow too large for सैंडर्स to manage, और in 1964 he sold the company to a समूह of investors led by John Y. Brown, jr. and जोकर massey.
केएफसी थी one of the पहला तेज़ खाना chains to विस्तार internationally, opening outlets in इंग्लैण्ड, Mexico और Puerto Rico by the mid-1960s.
Throughout the 1970s और 1980s, केएफसी अनुभवी मिश्रित fortunes domestically, as it गई through a series of corporate स्वामी जो था little or no अनुभव in the रेस्तरां business.
in the early 1970s, केएफसी was sold to the spirits firm heublein, जो यहूद taken over by the R.J. Reynolds food and tobacco conglomerate, जो sold the chain to PepsiCo.
The कड़ी जारी to विस्तार विदेशी however, और in 1987 केएफसी became the first Western restaurant कड़ी to open in चीन.
The chain has चूंकि विस्तारित rapidly in चीन, और the country is अभी the कम्पनी 's most लाभप्रद मार्केट.
पेप्सिको spun बंद its restaurants division as tricon Global रेस्तरां, which बाद changed its name to Yum !
Brands.
KFC primarily sells fried chicken टुकड़े and विसंगतियाँ ऐसे as मुर्गा सैंडविच and wraps, सलाद और पक्ष बर्तन ऐसे as फ्रेंच फ्राइज़ and coleslaw, desserts और नरम पेय, often supplied by PepsiCo.
Its most famous product is pressure fried मुर्गा pieces, seasoned साथ Sanders ' `` Original Recipe '' of 11 herbs and मसाले.
The exact nature of ये ingredients is unknown, और represents a notable व्यापार रहस्य.
Larger portions of fried मुर्गा हैं परोसा in a distinctive cardboard `` बाल्टी '', which has become a हस्ताक्षर of the कड़ी since होने introduced by franchisee पीट हर्मन.
KFC is famous लिये the स्लोगन `` उंगली lickin ' शुभ '', जिससे रै since महरूम replaced by `` Nobody does chicken जैसे KFC '' और `` So good ''.
Cnidaria ( साथ a silent c ) or Coelenterata is a phylum containing over 10,000 प्रजाति of पशु found exclusively in aquatic and ज़्यादातर marine environments.
उनके distinguishing विशेषता is cnidocytes, specialized cells that they use mainly लिये capturing prey.
उनके लाशें consist of mesoglea, a non-living jelly-like पदार्थ, sandwiched between दो परतों of epithelium कि are ज़्यादातर एक cell thick.
They have दो मौलिक देह फ़ॉर्म : तैराकी medusae and स्थानबद्ध polyps, both of जिससे हैं radially symmetrical with mouths घिरी by tentacles that bear cnidocytes.
Both फ़ॉर्म have a single orifice and देह cavity that are used लिये digestion और respiration.
Many cnidarian species उपज colonies that हैं single जीवों composed of medusa-like or polyp-like zooids, or both.
cnidarians ' activities are समन्वित by a decentralized तंत्रिका जाल and simple receptors.
Several free-swimming Cubozoa and scyphozoa possess balance-sensing statocysts, और some have simple आँखें.
Not सब cnidarians reproduce sexually.
अनेक have जटिल lifecycles with अलैंगिक polyp चरण और यौन medusae, but कुछ omit either the polyp or the medusa स्टेज.
Cnidarians were for a long समय grouped with ctenophores in the phylum coelenterata, लकिन increasing awareness of their differences caused them to be placed in separate phyla.
Cnidarians are classified into चार main समूह : the almost wholly स्थानबद्ध Anthozoa ( sea anemones, corals, sea पेन ) ; swimming Scyphozoa ( jellyfish ) ; Cubozoa ( बक्सा jellies ) ; और hydrozoa, a विविध group कि includes सब the freshwater cnidarians as खूब as अनेक समुद्री फ़ॉर्म, and has दोनो sessile members such as Hydra and औपनिवेशिक swimmers such as the Portuguese man o ' युद्ध.
staurozoa have recently महरूम recognised as a class in their own सही बल्कि than a sub-group of Scyphozoa, and वहीँ is बहस परिचय whether Myxozoa और polypodiozoa हैं cnidarians or closer to bilaterians ( more जटिल animals ).
सबसे cnidarians शिकार on organisms ranging in आकार from प्लवक to पशु अनेक times larger than themselves, but अनेक obtain much of उनके nutrition from endosymbiotic algae, और a few हैं parasites.
अनेक हैं preyed upon by अन्य पशु सहित starfish, समुद्र slugs, मछली और turtles.
Coral reefs, जिनकी polyps are rich in endosymbiotic algae, support some of the संसार 's most productive ecosystems, and protect वनस्पति in tidal zones और on shorelines from strong currents and tides.
While corals हैं almost entirely प्रतिबंधित to warm, shallow समुद्री waters, other cnidarians live in the depths, in polar समंदर and in freshwater.
चट्टान cnidarians have महरूम found in रॉक्स formed about, और अन्य जीवाश्मों show that corals may have been present shortly पहले and diversified a few million years later.
Fossils of cnidarians कि do नहीं निर्माण mineralized structures हैं very rare.
वैज्ञानिकों currently सोचो that cnidarians, ctenophores और bilaterians are more closely related to calcareous sponges than these are to other sponges, और कि anthozoans are the विकासवादी `` aunts '' or `` sisters '' of other cnidarians, and the most closely related to bilaterians.
Recent analyses have concluded that cnidarians, although considered अधिक `` primitive '' than bilaterians, have a wider range of genes.
the एज़टेक Pyramid at St. cecilia Acatitlan, मैक्सिको State.
Aztec जेड mask depicting the god Xipe totec.
विशाल सिरेमिक प्रतिमा of an Aztec त्रिभुज योद्धा
एज़टेक cosmogram in the pre-Hispanic codex fejérváry-mayer - the आग god xiuhtecuhtli is in the center.
the एज़टेक लोगों were certain ethnic समूह of central मैक्सिको, particularly those समूह who spoke the Nahuatl language and जो वर्चस्व large parts of मेसोअमेरिका इससे the 14th to 16th सदियां.
The Nahuatl words aztecatl ( singular ) and aztecah ( plural ) mean `` people from aztlan ``, a mythological प्लेस for the Nahuatl-speaking संस्कृति of the समय, और later अपनाया as the word to define the Mexica people.
Often the term `` Aztec '' refers exclusively to the Mexica लोगों of tenochtitlan ( अभी the location of Mexico City ), situated on an island in Lake Texcoco, जो referred to themselves as mexica tenochca or Cōlhuah mexica.
sometimes the पद भी शामिल the inhabitants of tenochtitlan 's two principal अलाइड city-states, the acolhuas of Texcoco और the Tepanecs of Tlacopan, जो together साथ the Mexica formed the Aztec ट्रिपल गठबंधन which controlled what is प्रायः ज्ञात as `` the Aztec Empire ''.
in अन्य contexts, एज़टेक may refer to सब the विभिन्न city states और their peoples, जो साझा विशाल भाग of उनके ethnic इतिहास and cultural traits साथ the mexica, acolhua और tepanecs, और जो प्रायः also प्रयुक्त the Nahuatl language as a lingua फ़्रांका.
In this अर्थ it is possible to talk परिचय an एज़टेक सभ्यता सहित all the particular cultural पैटर्न common लिये सबसे of the peoples inhabiting Central मैक्सिको in the लेट postclassic period.
इससे the 13th century, the Valley of Mexico was the दिल of Aztec सभ्यता : यहाँ the पूंजी of the Aztec Triple Alliance, the city of Tenochtitlan, थी निर्मित upon उठाया islets in Lake texcoco.
The Triple Alliance formed a tributary empire expanding इसके political hegemony far परे the घाटी of मैक्सिको, conquering अन्य नगर राज्य throughout मेसोअमेरिका.
at its शिखर, Aztec culture had समृद्ध और जटिल पौराणिक और धार्मिक traditions, as खूब as reaching remarkable architectural and artistic accomplishments.
In 1521 Hernán Cortés, along साथ a विशाल number of Nahuatl speaking indigenous allies, conquered tenochtitlan and defeated the Aztec ट्रिपल गठबंधन अंतर्गत the नेतृत्व of Hueyi Tlatoani Moctezuma II.
subsequently the Spanish संस्थापित the नई settlement of Mexico City on the site of the ruined एज़टेक capital, इससे जहाँ they proceeded with the प्रक्रम of colonizing Central अमेरिका.
एज़टेक संस्कृति और history is primarily ज्ञात through archaeological प्रमाण मिला in excavations ऐसे as that of the प्रसिद्ध templo Mayor in Mexico City ; from स्वदेशी छाल paper codices ; इससे eyewitness accounts by Spanish conquistadors ऐसे as hernán Cortés और बर्नल Díaz del Castillo ; and विशेषकर from 16th और 17th सदी descriptions of एज़टेक culture और history लिखा by स्पेनी clergymen and literate aztecs in the स्पेनी or नावातल language, such as the प्रसिद्ध florentine Codex compiled by the franciscan भिक्षु Bernardino de sahagún साथ the help of स्वदेशी Aztec informants.
Anderson hays कूपर ( born जून 3, 1967 ) is an अमरीकी journalist, author, and television personality.
he is the प्राथमिक anchor of the CNN news दिखाएँ Anderson Cooper 360°.
the कार्यक्रम is normally broadcast live इससे a New York नगर स्टुडियो ; however, Cooper often broadcasts सजीव on location लिये breaking न्यूज कहानियां.
As of September 2011, he भी serves as host of his अपना eponymous syndicated daytime talk दिखाएँ, एंडरसन Live, जिससे होगा be cancelled at the end of the दूसरी season.
A प्लाट of a सामान्य वितरण ( or bell-shaped वक्र ) where each बैंड has a width of 1 standard deviation – देखिए भी : 68-95-99.7 rule
Cumulative संभाव्यता of a सामान्य वितरण with expected value 0 and मानक विचलन 1.
in statistics और probability theory, मानक विचलन ( represented by the symbol सिग्मा, σ ) shows how much variation or dispersion exists from the average ( mean ), or अपेक्षित मान.
a low मानक विचलन indicates कि the data points tend to be very close to the mean ; high मानक deviation indicates कि the आंकड़ा अंक हैं spread out over a large दायरा of मान.
The मानक विचलन of a यादृच्छिक परिवर्तनीय, statistical population, data नियत, or संभाव्यता वितरण is the square root of इसके variance.
it is algebraically simpler though practically less मजबूत than the औसत absolute विचलन.
a उपयोगी प्रॉपर्टी of standard deviation is कि, unlike variance, it is expressed in the वही इकाई as the आंकड़ा.
नोट, however, कि लिये measurements with प्रतिशत as ईकाई, the standard deviation will have प्रतिशत points as ईकाई.
in addition to expressing the variability of a जनसांख्यिकी, मानक विचलन is commonly प्रयुक्त to माप confidence in statistical conclusions.
For example, the हाशिया of गलती in polling आंकड़ा is संकल्पित by calculating the अपेक्षित मानक deviation in the परिणाम if the same poll यहूद to be conducted multiple times.
The reported हाशिया of गलती is typically about twice the standard विचलन ­– the radius of a 95 percent confidence अंतराल.
In science, researchers commonly रपट the मानक deviation of experimental आंकड़ा, और only प्रभाव कि पतन दूर बाहर the दायरा of मानक deviation हैं considered statistically significant – normal random गलती or variation in the माप is in this way distinguished from causal variation.
मानक deviation is also महत्वपूर्ण in वित्त, where the standard विचलन on the रेट of वापसी on an निवेश is a measure of the volatility of the निवेश.
When only a sample of data इससे a population is उपलब्धियाँ, the standard विचलन of the जनसांख्यिकी can be अनुमानित by a परिवर्धित quantity पुकारा the `` sample standard deviation ''.
When the sample is the entire population, its unmodified standard deviation is पुकारा the `` population मानक विचलन ''.
ulluco ( u : ju : kɔ : ) ( ullucus tuberosus ) is a plant grown primarily as a root सब्ज़ी, secondarily as a leaf vegetable.
the ulluco is one of the most widely grown and economically important रूट crops in the andean प्रदेश of South अमेरिका, second तभी to the आलू.
it is ज्ञात वहीँ साथ the common नाम of पापा लिसा, लकिन भी by the क्षेत्रीय names melloco ( Ecuador ), olluco ( Peru ), chugua ( कोलंबिया ) or ruba ( वेनेजुएला ), among अन्य.
The leaf और the tuber हैं खाद्य, समान to पालक और the आलू, respectively.
They हैं known to contain high levels of प्रोटीन, calcium, and carotene.
Papalisa यहूद प्रयुक्त by the Incas prior to आगमन of Europeans in दक्षिण America.
ulluco tubers are marketed as `` धरती Gems '' in New Zealand, by Halfords exotic उपज.
ulluco tubers in New जीलैंड
An अप्रैल 24, 1851 poster warning the `` रंगीन people of Boston '' about policemen एक्टिंग as slave catchers.
the भगोड़े Slave विधि or Fugitive Slave Act थी passed by the संयुक्त राज्य Congress on सितंबर 18, 1850, as part of the सुलह of 1850 between दक्षिणी slave-holding रूचि and Northern free-soilers.
इस थी एक of the most controversial acts of the 1850 सुलह और heightened उत्तरी fears of a `` स्लेव शक्ति षड्यंत्र ''.
It declared कि all runaway स्लेव were, upon capture, to be लौटे to their masters.
abolitionists nicknamed it the `` Bloodhound विधि '' for the कुत्तो कि यहूद used to track bas runaway slaves.
Frank जोसेफ pallone, jr. ( born October 30, 1951 ) is the u.S. Representative लिये, सेवारत चूंकि 1993.
he is a सदस्य of the लोकतांत्रिक Party.
He previously represented the 3rd ज़िला इससे 1988 to 1993.
trin-i-tee 5:7 is a इन्जील duo इससे नई Orleans, louisiana in the संयुक्त राज्य.
the group थी marketed as a इन्जील वैकल्पिक to r & B girl groups ऐसे as नियति 's Child और tlc.
Trin-i-tee 5:7 has बेची over 2.5 million albums.
in 1998, the group released their first एल्बम हकदार trin-i-tee 5:7 जिससे डेब्यू at # 1 on the शीर्ष Gospel charts.
The album प्रदर्शित the songs `` परमेश्वर 's अनुग्रह '' और the कवर सोंग `` Oh !
मरियम Do n't You Weep ''.
The album later became certified सुनहरा.
In 1999, Terri भूरा left the group और was बाद replaced by singer एड्रियन एंडरसन.
दौरान that साल, the समूह अंकित और released उनके second album, Spiritual प्रेम.
the एल्बम became the group 's second # 1 album on the शीर्ष इन्जील charts.
the album contained the singles `` Put Your हैंड्स '' and `` My Body ''.
in 2002, the समूह released उनके तीसरा album The Kiss जिससे debuted at # 2 on the Top इन्जील charts.
In 2007, the समूह left GospoCentric Records और हस्ताक्षरित a record deal साथ स्पिरिट उठती म्यूज़िक.
in late 2007, Trin-i-tee 5:7 released उनके fifth album t57, जिससे featured the शीर्ष ten इन्जील single `` Listen ''.
T57 charted # 2 on the शीर्ष इन्जील एल्बम, # 5 on the शीर्ष ईसाई चार्ट, और # 12 on the शीर्ष R & B charts.
The United राज्य federal earned income कर credit or अर्जित income क्रेडिट ( eitc or eic ) is a refundable tax credit for low- और medium-income individuals and युगल, primarily for those who have qualifying children.
जब the credit exceeds the amount of कर owed, it results in a tax refund to those who claim the क्रेडिट.
इस credit is provided to ऑफसेट the बोझ of social security कर and also to प्रचार an incentive to कार्य.
in order लिये a person or युगल to अर्जी एक or अधिक persons as उनके qualifying child ( ren ), the आयु, संबंध, and साझा residency आवश्यकताएँ जरूर be met, as खूब as कुछ other requirements.
u.S. कर फ़ॉर्म 1040EZ, 1040A, or 1040 can be used to claim EIC बगैर qualifying children.
to claim the क्रेडिट with qualifying children, 1040A or 1040 जरूर be प्रयुक्त, as खूब as attaching अनुसूची EIC.
EIC phases in slowly, has a medium-length पठार, और तब phases आउट more slowly than it phased in.
चूंकि the क्रेडिट phases आउट at 21 % ( लिये दो children और लिये तीन or अधिक qualilfying children ) or 16 % ( for एक qualifying चाइल्ड ), it is सदा अस्तबलों to have one अधिक dollar of actual salary or मजदूरी ( although technically, since the EIC तालिका moves by fifty डालर increments, it 's सदा अस्तबलों to have an extra fifty-dollar increment of salary or wages ).
लिये tax year 2011, the अधिकतम eic लिये a सिंगल व्यक्ति or couple filing बगैर qualifying children was $ 464.
The maximum eic साथ one qualifying child was $ 3,094, साथ दो children थी $ 5,112, और with तीन or more qualifying children was $ 5,751.
ये amounts are indexed annually लिये inflation.
The अर्जित आय कर credit has been part of राजनैतिक debates in the United राज्य regarding whether उठाने the न्यूनतम मजदूरी or increasing EIC होगा better पता a seeming shortage of good-paying jobs.
the following is a list of halftime shows आयोजित at the National फ़ुटबॉल League 's championship खेल, the Super कटोरी.
जबकि मध्यांतर shows हैं a परंपरा दौरान फ़ुटबॉल खेल at सब levels of competition, the सुपर Bowl मध्यांतर दिखाएँ represents a आधारभूत link to पॉप संस्कृति, which helps broaden the television दर्शक और देशभर interest.
in most years चूंकि the mid-1980s, the मध्यांतर दिखाएँ of the सुपर Bowl रै featured लोकप्रिय रिकॉर्डिंग artists and अन्य well-known हस्तियाँ.
It has measurably increased टेलीविज़न viewers दौरान and बाद the halftime show.
The performance is regarded one of the most-watched कार्यक्रम in American television annually with over 100 लाख दर्शक in the संयुक्त राज्य अलोन.
Musical जाति over the years have represented a broad range of म्यूज़िक प्रकार, including पॉप, rock, classic चट्टान, country, hip hop, रैप, blues, और आत्मा.
in some years, short skits or drama scenes हैं acted आउट on a स्टेज.
The performance group up साथ People रै performed at the most Super कटोरी halftime shows, अभिनीत in चार दौरान the 1970s और 1980s.
According to nielsen ratings, Super Bowl XLVI मध्यांतर दिखाएँ headlined by मैडोना in 2012 remains the most-watched मध्यांतर दिखाएँ in history, with 114 लाख viewers or परिचय 3 लाख अधिक than the actual game.
beyonce 's 2013 मध्यांतर दिखाएँ प्रदर्शन was the second सबसे viewed दिखाएँ in इतिहास.
It is सूचीबद्ध on the गिनीज संसार रिकॉर्ड as the largest tv दर्शक लिये a Super कटोरी half-time performance.
International Men 's दिन ( imd ) is an annual अंतरराष्ट्रीय event मनाये on 19th November.
Inaugurated in 1999 in त्रिनिदाद and Tobago, the day and इसके कार्यक्रम ढूँढें support from a variety of individuals और समूह in Australia, the Caribbean, उत्तर अमेरिका, एशिया, Europe and अफ़्रीकी.
बोलना on behalf of युनेस्को, Director of महिलाओं and Culture of Peace Ingeborg breines said of IMD, `` इस is an excellent विचार and होता give some लिंग संतुलन. ''
वो added कि युनेस्को थी looking आगे to cooperating with the organizers.
the उद्देश्य of celebrating an अंतरराष्ट्रीय Men 's Day शामिल focusing on men 's और boys ' स्वास्थ्य, improving लिंग relations, promoting gender समता, और highlighting positive पुरूष role models.
It is an अवसर to हाइलाइट discrimination विरूद्ध men और boys और to celebrate their achievements और योगदान, in particular लिये their योगदान to जातियाँ, परिवार, marriage, and child परवाह.
the broader और परम aim of the इवेंट is to promote मौलिक humanitarian मान.
International Men 's दिन is मनाये in over 60 देशों, including Trinidad और Tobago, जमैका, Australia, इण्डिया, चीन, संयुक्त राज्य, रोमानिया, सिंगापुर, माल्टा, संयुक्त Kingdom, South Africa, Tanzania, ज़िम्बाब्वे, बोत्सवाना, australia, Burundi, हंगेरियाई, आयरलैंड, आइल of man, घाना, कनाडा, डेनमार्क, नार्वे, ऑस्ट्रिया, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Ukraine, France, इटली, पाकिस्तानी, क्यूबा, अण्टीगुआ and बारबूडा, st. Kitts और नेविस, St. Lucia, हरा and Cayman Islands, on 19 नवम्बर, और global support लिये the जश्न is broad.
Valley Village ParkValley
गाँव is a district in the सैन Fernando घाटी प्रदेश of लॉस Angeles, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
the median age of इसके population, at 36, is `` old लिये the नगर of लॉस Angeles. '' और इसके औसत household आकार of two people is कम, compared to अन्य parts of the city.
Developmental मनोविज्ञान is the scientific पढ़ाई of परिवर्तन कि occur in इंसान beings over the course of उनके जीवन span.
Originally concerned with infants और children, the field रै विस्तारित to include adolescence, वयस्क development, aging, and the entire life span.
इस फ़ील्ड examines बदलें आरपार a broad range of विषय सहित मोटर skills and अन्य psycho-physiological processes ; संज्ञानात्मक development involving areas such as प्रॉब्लम solving, moral understanding, और conceptual understanding ; भाषा acquisition ; social, व्यक्तित्व, और emotional development ; और self-concept और identity formation.
Developmental मनोविज्ञान includes मुद्दे such as the extent to which development occurs through the क्रमिक accumulation of ज्ञान बनाम stage-like विकास, or the extent to जिससे children are born साथ स्वाभाविक mental structures versus सीखना through अनुभव.
अनेक researchers are दिलचस्पी in the interaction between personal विशेषताएँ, the individual 's बर्ताव, और environmental factors including social context, and उनके प्रभाव on विकास ; others take a अधिक narrowly-focused दृष्टिकोण.
Developmental psychology informs several लागू फ़ील्ड, including : educational psychology, चाइल्ड psychopathology, and forensic developmental मनोविज्ञान.
Developmental मनोविज्ञान complements अनेक अन्य basic शोध फ़ील्ड in मनोविज्ञान including social psychology, cognitive psychology, ecological मनोविज्ञान, and comparative मनोविज्ञान.
Joseph Michael `` Joey '' Stivic is a fictional अक्षर जो पहला appeared on the 1970s American sitcom सब in the परिवार.
जॉय stivic was the बेटे and only child of माइक Stivic ( निभाई by रोब reiner ) and ग्लोरिया Stivic ( played by Sally struthers ), and the पोता of Archie Bunker ( Carroll o'connor ) और Edith बंकर ( Jean Stapleton ).
The character पहला appeared as a नवजात baby in a two-part episode of All in the Family जिससे aired in दिसम्बर 1975.
बाद अनेक दिखावे on सब in the Family until Reiner और struthers left the श्रेणी in 1978 ( by that time, Joey था महरूम निभाई most often by alternating twins जेसन and जस्टिन Draeger ), the जॉय stivic अक्षर next appeared on the सब in the परिवार spin-off श्रेणी ( कुछ call it a continuation of the असली ) आर्ची Bunker 's प्लेस in a guest रूप in the November 1979 episode `` थैंक्सगिविंग Reunion. ''
in इस उदाहरण, the character थी निभाई by child actor Dick Billingsley and थी appropriately pre-school आयु.
With ग्लोरिया now separated इससे Mike, she लौटे to आर्ची बंकर 's प्लेस with Joey in the फ़रवरी 1982 episode `` ग्लोरिया आता घर. ''
In this episode, Joey थी निभाई by Christopher Johnston.
Joey Stivic was a नियमित character on the सब in the परिवार spin-off series Gloria in 1982 और 1983.
On this series, in which the now-divorced ग्लोरिया Bunker अक्षर had स्थानांतरित to Upstate नई यॉर्क in अनुक्रम to work as an सहायक veterinarian, the part of जॉय Stivic was played by ten-year-old actor Christian jacobs.
बाद ग्लोरिया थी रद्द in 1983, Joey Stivic disappeared इससे प्रधान time टेलीविज़न लिये 11 years, जबतक the character बना one last रूप on 704 hauser, a short-lived 1994 series परिचय a ब्लैक family जो था स्थानांतरित into the old बंकर home, years after Bunker had बेची it.
In this appearance, the Joey stivic अक्षर थी निभाई by Casey siemaszko, an actor born in 1961 ( 14 सालो before जॉय Stivic 's fictional birth ).
In 1976 the Ideal Toy Company released a 14-inch `` जॉय stivic doll '' ( पुकारा `` Archie Bunker 's पोता '' ) जिससे was billed as the `` पहला anatomically correct पुरूष doll. ''
The गुड़िया प्रेरित mild controversy at the time, and is a collectors ' मद today.
the 2011 रोज़ कटोरी was the 97th संस्करण of the annual bowl game played on जनवरी 1, 2011, as part of the 2010 college फ़ुटबॉल season.
Played in pasadena, California, the tcu Horned Frogs of the Mountain West सम्मेलन defeated the विस्कॉन्सिन badgers of the बिग टेन सम्मेलन by a स्कोर of 21 – 19.
The pasadena टूर्नामेंट of गुलाब संघ थी the organizer of the game.
Vizio inc. was the कॉरपोरेट प्रायोजक और the game was officially नामित `` The Rose Bowl खेल presented by vizio ''.
इस खेल चिह्नित the पहला time a टोली from a non-Automatic Qualifying Conference निभाई in, और won, the रोज़ Bowl in its 97 years.
The प्रतियोगिता थी ब्रॉडकास्ट on केबल टेलीविज़न station ईएसपीएन साथ a radio ब्रॉडकास्ट on ESPN रेडियो and XM उपग्रह Radio और espn3 streaming video over the internet.
Coverage began at 1:30 pm ( pst ) with kickoff at 2:10 pm ( pst ).
इस चिह्नित the पहला समय कि the खेल was not ब्रॉडकास्ट nationally `` over-the-air '' ( स्थलीय टेलीविज़न ) since the games prior to the 1952 Rose Bowl, जिससे was the first nationally televised college football game.
The Rose कटोरी Game, प्रसंग भवन सपनो, friendships, & Memories, was a contractual sell-out, साथ 64,500 टिकटें आबंटित to the participating teams and सम्मेलनों.
टिकट prices for all seats in the रोज़ कटोरी हैं listed at $ 145.
The remaining टिकटें went to the टूर्नामेंट of Roses सदस्यों, प्रायोजकों, City of Pasadena residents, and the general पब्लिक.
the रोज़ Bowl stadium क्षमता is listed at approximately 91,000.
The घोषणा of Independence is a statement adopted by the Continental कॉंग्रेस on जुलाई 4, 1776, which घोषित कि the तेरह American colonies, then at war साथ ग्रेट Britain, regarded themselves as स्वतंत्र states, and no longer a part of the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य.
बजाय they अभी formed a नई nation—the संयुक्त States of America.
John एडम्स थी a नेता in pushing for independence, जिससे थी unanimously approved on July 2.
a कमेटी था already drafted the formal घोषणा, to be ready जब कॉंग्रेस voted on स्वतंत्रता.
Adams persuaded the committee to चुनें थामस Jefferson to लिखें the असली ड्राफ्ट of the document, जिससे कॉंग्रेस होता edit to produce the final संस्करण.
the घोषणा was ultimately a formal explanation of why Congress had voted on जुलाई 2 to declare independence from ग्रेट Britain, more than a साल after the outbreak of the अमरीकी Revolutionary युद्ध.
The national birthday, the स्वतंत्रता दिन is celebrated on July 4, although एडम्स wanted जुलाई 2.
बाद ratifying the text on July 4, कॉंग्रेस जारी the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता in several forms.
it थी initially प्रकाशित as the printed Dunlap broadside that was widely वितरित and पढ़ा to the पब्लिक.
the सबसे famous संस्करण of the घोषणा, a signed नक़ल कि is popularly regarded as the घोषणा of Independence, is प्रदर्शित at the नेशनल Archives in Washington, D.C.
Although the wording of the Declaration was approved on जुलाई 4, the date of इसके signing थी अगस्त 2.
The असली July 4 संयुक्त राज्य घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता manuscript थी खोया while all other copies have been derived इससे इस original दस्तावेज़.
the स्त्रोत और interpretation of the Declaration have महरूम the विषय of much scholarly पूछताछ.
the घोषणा जायज the independence of the संयुक्त राज्य by listing औपनिवेशिक grievances against King George III, and by asserting निश्चित natural और विधिक rights, including a right of revolution.
Having परोसा इसके असली purpose in announcing independence, the टेक्स्ट of the घोषणा was initially उपेक्षित बाद the American Revolution.
चूंकि तब, it रै come to be माना a major बयान on इंसान अधिकारों, particularly its second sentence:
We hold these सच्चाई to be self-evident, कि सब मेन are created equal, कि वे are endowed by their निर्माता साथ certain unalienable अधिकारों, कि among ये are Life, स्वतंत्रता and the pursuit of Happiness.
This has been called `` एक of the best-known sentences in the अंग्रेज़ी language '', containing `` the सबसे potent और consequential शब्द in American इतिहास. ''
The passage came to represent a moral standard to which the United राज्य should strive.
This दृश्य was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln, जो considered the Declaration to be the न्यास of his political philosophy, और argued that the Declaration is a बयान of principles through जिससे the United States संविधान should be interpreted.
it has प्रेरित work for the rights of marginalized people throughout the world.
chitty chitty Bang बंग is a 1968 अंग्रेजों musical film loosely आधारित on Ian फ्लेमिंग 's अनोखा.
The film 's स्क्रिप्ट is by roald dahl and केन ह्यूजेस and इसके songs by the शरमन Brothers.
it सितारों लंड Van dyke as caractacus potts और Sally ऐन Howes as Truly scrumptious.
the film was निर्देशित by Ken Hughes और उत्पादित by Albert R. Broccoli ( co-producer of the जेम्स बंध श्रेणी of films, भी based on फ्लेमिंग 's novels ).
जॉन stears supervised the special effects.
इरविन kostal पर्यवेक्षित और conducted the music, while the musical संख्याएँ यहूद मंचन by Marc breaux and dee Dee लकडी.
a region is arid when it is characterized by a severe lack of available water, to the extent of hindering or preventing the विकास and development of संयंत्र और एनिमल life.
Environments subject to arid climates tend to कमी vegetation और हैं called xeric or desertic.
Most `` arid '' climates घेर the equator ; ये places शामिल सबसे of अफ़्रीकी और parts of दक्षिण अमेरिका and सेंट्रल America.
कर्कट ( ♋ ) is an astrological sign, जिससे is संबद्ध साथ the नक्षत्र Cancer.
it spans the 90-120th degree of the zodiac, between 90 और 125.25 उपाधि of celestial longitude, जिससे the सूर्य transits इस क्षेत्रफल on average between जून 22 to जुलाई 22 each साल.
And under the sidereal zodiac, it is currently from जुलाई 21 to August 9.
the United States अध्यक्षीय चुनाव of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial presidential election, held on Tuesday, November 8, 1960.
the Republican Party nominated लाज़िम vice-president रिचर्ड निक्सन, while the लोकतांत्रिक Party nominated John F. Kennedy, Senator from Massachusetts.
The लाज़िम अध्यक्ष, Republican ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर, was नहीं eligible लिये re-election after सेवारत the अधिकतम दो terms अनुमत by the Twenty-second amendment.
कैनेडी थी निर्वाचित with a सीसे of 112,827 votes, or 0.17 % of the लोकप्रिय vote, giving him a victory of 303 to 219 in the Electoral कॉलेज, the closest since 1916.
This थी the first election in जिससे सब fifty of the वर्तमान संयुक्त राज्य participated.
A number of factors बताइये क्यों the election थी so close.
Kennedy gained since there was an आर्थिक recession which ठेस the incumbent रिपब्लिकन, और he था the लाभ of 17 लाख अधिक पंजीकृत Democrats than republicans.
Furthermore, the new मत कि Kennedy gained among catholics लगभग neutralized the नई मत Nixon gained among Protestants.
कैनेडी 's campaigning skills decisively outmatched Nixon 's.
In the end, Nixon 's जोर on his experience carried little weight, और he wasted उर्जा by campaigning in सब 50 states बजाय of concentrating on the झूले states.
कैनेडी used उसके large, well-funded अभियान संगठन to जीत the nomination, सुरक्षित समर्थन, और, with the सहायता of the last of the big-city bosses, to मिलेंगी आउट the vote in the बिग शहरों.
He relied on कार्यशील mate Lyndon B. जॉनसन to थाम the दक्षिण और प्रयुक्त टेलीविज़न effectively.
This election is notable as being the first समय in U.S. इतिहास that two sitting u.s. सीनेटरों ( Kennedy और Johnson ) were elected as अध्यक्ष और vice-president, a phenomenon कि has महरूम repeated once, by बराक Obama और Joe बिडेन in 2008 ( in दोनो cases, the president थी the younger, more जूनियर सीनेटर ).
Sherwood is a नगर in Washington काउंटी, Oregon, United राज्य.
Located in the southeast कोने of the काउंटी, it is a आवासीय जातियाँ in the Tualatin घाटी दक्षिणपश्चिम of Portland.
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 11,791 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
According to the 2010 census, the population was 18,205 residents.
indirectly नामित for the Sherwood वन in इंग्लैण्ड, it थी पहला incorporated in 1893 as a town.
The यूएसए PATRIOT Act of 2001 is an अधिनियम of the U.S. कॉंग्रेस कि was हस्ताक्षरित into law by अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश on अक्तूबर 26, 2001.
the शीर्षक of the अधिनियम is a टेन letter acronym ( USA patriot ) कि स्टैंड for uniting ( और ) strengthening America ( by ) Providing उचित Tools Required ( to ) Intercept ( and ) obstruct आतंक Act of 2001.
The act, as a response to the terrorist attacks of सितंबर 11th, significantly घटाया प्रतिबंध in law enforcement एजेंसियों ' gathering of intelligence within the United States ; expanded the सचिव of the treasury’s authority to regulate वित्तीय transactions, विशेषकर those involving विदेशी individuals and entities ; and broadened the discretion of law enforcement and आव्रजन authorities in detaining and deporting आप्रवासियों suspected of terrorism-related अधिनियमों.
the अधिनियम भी expanded the परिभाषा of आतंक to include domestic आतंक, thus enlarging the number of activities to which the यूएसए patriot Act’s विस्तारित विधि enforcement शक्तियां can be applied.
on May 26, 2011, अध्यक्ष Barack ओबामा प्रयुक्त an autopen to चिह्न the PATRIOT Sunsets Extension अधिनियम of 2011, a four-year extension of three key provisions in the यूएसए PATRIOT Act while he थी in France : roving wiretaps, searches of business records ( the `` पुस्तकालयों रिकॉर्ड provision `` ), and conducting surveillance of `` लोन wolves '' — individuals suspected of terrorist-related क्रियाएँ not linked to terrorist समूह.
रिपब्लिकन leaders questioned if the उपयोग of the Autopen met the संवैधानिक आवश्यकताएँ लिये signing a विधेयक into law.
a house in महारानी Anne स्टाइल at 223 Avenue A.
snohomish is a city in Snohomish County, वॉशिंगटन, संयुक्त States.
The population थी 9,098 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
The mayor of Snohomish is Karen guzak, and the नगर Manager is Larry Bauman.
snohomish prides itself लिये इसके ऐतिहासिक downtown, and was एकबार ज्ञात for इसके many पुरातन shops जब it was known as the `` पुरातन पूंजी of the उत्तरपश्चिम. ''
the historic कारोबार और residential बीच of the कस्बा constitutes the Snohomish Historic ज़िला, जिससे is सूचीबद्ध on the National Register of ऐतिहासिक Places.
अनेक घरों bear plaques साथ the साल the house थी निर्मित and the नाम of the family or व्यक्तिगत who originally occupied it.
एकबार प्रत्येक year, the नगर देता टुर of the ऐतिहासिक houses ; एक of them, the Blackman House, is a year-round museum.
A सामान्य विमानन एयरफील्ड, Harvey एयरफील्ड, is कम than one मील दक्षिणपश्चिम of Downtown snohomish.
Dave matthews बैंड ( dmb ) is an American rock बैंड कि was formed in charlottesville, वर्जिनिया, United States, in 1991.
The founding members were singer-songwriter और guitarist Dave matthews, bassist Stefan lessard, वादक /backing vocalist Carter beauford और saxophonist LeRoi Moore.
boyd tinsley was added to the बैंड as a violinist जल्द after the बैंड was formed.
मूर died suddenly in अगस्त 2008 due to complications इससे चोटों sustained in an atv accident.
GRAMMY पुरस्कार -winner Jeff Coffin of Béla Fleck और the Flecktones रै चूंकि भर Moore 's spot as the band 's saxophonist.
rashawn रॉस और टिम Reynolds have भी become full-time touring members of the बैंड.
the band 's 2009 album बिग whiskey और the GrooGrux किंग ( the पहला album चूंकि Moore 's death ) debuted at number one on the Billboard 200, कमाई the band उनके fifth consecutive number-one debut— बनाना them the second band पीछे मेटालिका to do so.
Their most हाल एल्बम, Away from the संसार, थी released in 2012, and भी debuted at number एक on the बिलबोर्ड chart.
as of 2010, the Dave Matthews Band रै sold over 30 million रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी.
The band is known for their सालाना summer-long tours of the United States और यूरोपीय, featuring lengthy improvisational renditions of उनके songs, accompanied by an elaborate वीडियो and lighting show.
इस portion of the tour रै become a stamp of DMB and has grown साथ the बैंड चूंकि fenton विलियम्स began working साथ them in the early 1990s.
After twenty लगातार years of touring the बैंड घोषित that it would take the summer of 2011 off.
Dave Matthews बैंड रै won one ग्रैमी Award, और थी awarded the naacp Chairman 's Award.
according to जूलियन Bond, `` they sell आउट the largest arenas on धरती, लकिन frequently दे उनके म्यूज़िक दूर. ''
Transcendental Wild जई : a Chapter from an Unwritten Romance is a गद्य व्यंग्य लिखा by louisa may alcott, about her परिवार 's involvement साथ the transcendentalist community fruitlands in the early 1840s.
The work थी first published in a नई York newspaper in 1873, और reprinted in 1874, 1876, और 1915 और after.
In her account, alcott provides the real लोगों involved साथ thin pseudonymous disguises.
उसके पिता अमोस Bronson alcott is `` abel Lamb, '' while his संगी और जातियाँ co-founder चार्ल्स लेन is `` Timon शेर ; '' Abigail May Alcott, Louisa 's mother and Bronson 's बीवी, is `` Sister Hope. ''
Alcott depicts her father as dominated by his more forceful partner, और both मेन as लापरवाह and impractical dreamers.
the मेन of the community खर्च their समय in pointless debates जबकि Sister Hope works from भोर to dusk to maintain their existence.
A crisis arises at कटाई time, when the अनाज crop is threatened by an approaching storm.
In alcott 's शब्द, `` About the समय the अनाज थी ready to हाउस, कुछ call of the Oversoul wafted all the men दूर. ''
सिस्टर Hope organizes the only उपलब्धियाँ help, तीन छोटी लड़कियों and a boy, और manages to save the crop.
The little जातियाँ collapses as जल्द as the weather turns cold, जब it becomes साफ कि उनके प्रावधानों are too meager to last the coming winter.
Timon शेर and उसके son abscond to join the Shakers — though timon is अप्रसन्न to learn that life among them is `` all कार्य and no खेल. ''
Abel is कुचल by the विफलता of the enterprise ; after days of despair he begins to eat again तभी जब he realizes कि his परिवार needs him.
सिस्टर आशा पाता a way for them to subsist and persevere.
Alcott 's दृश्य of male arrogance and female शोषण in इस piece is paralleled in her novel, प्रकाशित in the वही साल as `` अनुभवातीत Wild Oats. ''
`` अनुभवातीत Wild Oats '' has महरूम reprinted in अनेक modern editions.
माउंट of the Holy Cross is the northernmost 14,000-foot पहाड़ in the sawatch Range, भाग of the Rocky kyu in कोलोराडो.
it is located in the पावन Cross Wilderness निकट the ghost कस्बा of Holy क्रॉस नगर और in त्रिभुज काउंटी.
it was नामित for the distinctive cross-shaped snowfield on the northeast face.
अंतर्गत यूएसडीए वन Service administration, the पहाड़ थी proclaimed `` Holy क्रॉस नेशनल Monument '' by Herbert Hoover on May 11, 1929.
The स्मारक was transferred to the National Park सेवा in 1933.
in 1950, it was लौटे to the वन Service और lost इसके नेशनल Monument status—the क्रमांक of विज़िटर to the mountain और the nearby `` pilgrim 's हट '' had waned, और the व्यय of full-time staff could not be जायज.
इस पहाड़ has been the subject of चित्रकार, फ़ोटोग्राफ़र और even a कविता by Henry वाड्सवर्थ लांगफेलो, ( The Cross of हिम ).
the पहला सरेआम available फोटोग्राफ was प्रकाशित in नेशनल Geographic magazine.
Thomas Moran depicted the mountain in an आयल पेंटिंग, जिससे now is part of the collection of the संग्रहालय of the American West, part of the Autry नेशनल Center in लॉस Angeles, California.
it is स्टिल much photographed but it is not as well known today as it थी in the past.
आसपास सुविधाएँ include Bowl of आंसू झील, सीधे अंतर्गत the ईस्ट face of the peak, tuhare झीलों, in a cirque कि lies south of a significant subpeak, and अनेक अन्य lakes.
Notable locations within include the Dotsero ज्वालामुखी ( near Interstate 70 ), vail और Aspen.
us 24 रनों near the peak through gilman.
Photochrom छपाई of Mount of the Holy Cross c. 1900.
This image is a reversed view of the mountain compared to how it दरअसल appears.
the first अंकित ascent of Holy क्रॉस was in 1873, by F. V. Hayden और फ़ोटोग्राफ़र W. H. Jackson during एक of Hayden 's भौगोलिक surveys.
However, the शिखर may well have महरूम ascended previously by खनिक or अमरीकी इंडियंस.
The पहला शीत ascent of the peak was made in 1943 by russel keene and हावर्ड Freedman of the 10th पहाड़ प्रभाग, तब stationed at शिविर Hale.
Holy Cross can be climbed by at least चार different routes, with the easiest and most आम route होने the उत्तर Ridge, which involves of vertical gain over और is रेटेड YDS क्लास 2 लिये moderate scrambling.
The Cross Couloir route forms the लंबवत portion of the famous cross feature, और provides an advanced हिम चढ़ाई or extreme ski descent.
माउंट of the Holy क्रॉस has a इतिहास of endangering the जीवनदान of many hikers.
Primarily, the hikers who आवश्यकता बचाव are unfamiliar with the risks of entering wilderness क्षेत्रों and do not लाओ adequate उपकरण और आपूर्तियाँ to respond to आपात conditions.
हालांकि the summit on Mount of the पावन Cross is अक्सर पहुँचे on a long day hike, unprepared hikers हैं frequently stranded or खोया due to बदलना पर्यावरणीय conditions and confusion regarding the surrounding landscape, विशेषकर on the descent of उत्तर Ridge.
Thorough शोध and reasonable planning should prevent most tragedies.
माउंट of the Holy क्रॉस is accessible from tigiwon Road, दक्षिण of Minturn, Colorado.
the Half चंद्रमा Pass ट्रेल is the standard रूट to the समिट of माउंट of the Holy क्रॉस via the North Ridge.
following the पतन क्रीक ट्रेल to an ascent of Notch पहाड़ ट्रेल provides the बेहतरीन view of the पावन Cross हिम feature इससे Notch Mountain लकीरें.
The GSM लोगो is प्रयुक्त to identify संगत handsets और equipment
जीएसएम ( वैश्विक प्रणाली लिये मोबाईल संचार, originally ' ), is a standard नियत विकसित by the यूरोपीय Telecommunications Standards Institute ( etsi ) to describe प्रोटोकॉल for दूसरी पीढी ( 2G ) digital cellular संजाल used by मोबाईल फोन.
It became the de facto global मानक लिये mobile communications साथ over 80 % मार्केट share.
the GSM standard was developed as a replacement for पहला पीढी ( 1G ) analog cellular संजाल, और originally वर्णित a digital, सर्किट switched संजाल अनुकूलित लिये full duplex voice telephony.
This थी expanded over समय to include data संचार, first by circuit switched transport, तब पैकेट data transport via GPRS ( General पैकेट Radio Services ) and EDGE ( उन्नत Data दरों for जीएसएम एवोल्यूशन or EGPRS ).
further improvements were made when the 3GPP विकसित third generation ( 3G ) umts standards followed by चौथी पीढी ( 4G ) LTE उन्नत मानकों.
`` जीएसएम '' is a ट्रेडमार्क स्वामित्व by the जीएसएम Association.
President फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट लक्षण the Lend-Lease bill to give aid to ब्रिटेन and China ( 1941 )
the Lend पट्टे अधिनियम was an अधिनियम where the United राज्य had supported its allies.
Lend-Lease ( ) थी the law that प्रारंभ a program under जिससे the United राज्य of अमेरिका supplied the संयुक्त Kingdom, the ussr, Republic of China, फ़्री फ़्रांस, and अन्य Allied nations with materiel between 1941 and 1945.
It was signed into विधि on March 11, 1941, a year और a half बाद the outbreak of World युद्ध ii in Europe in September 1939.
इस थी nine महीने before the U.S. entered the war in December 1941.
Formally titled An अधिनियम to Further प्रचार the रक्षा of the United States, the अधिनियम effectively ended the United राज्य ' pretense of neutrality.
a कुल of $ 50.1 billion ( equivalent to $ today ) worth of supplies यहूद shipped : $ 31.4 अरब to ब्रिटेन, $ 11.3 अरब to the Soviet Union, $ 3.2 अरब to France, $ 1.6 अरब to चीन, and smaller रकम to other Allies.
रिवर्स lend-lease comprised services ऐसे as rent on एयर bases कि went to the u.S., और totaled $ 7.8 billion ; of this, $ 6.8 billion आए from the British and the Commonwealth.
The शर्तें of the अनुबंध provided कि the materiel थी to be प्रयुक्त जबतक time लिये their return or विनाश.
आपूर्तियाँ बाद the termination date यहूद sold to ब्रिटेन at a large छूट for £1.075 billion using long-term लोन इससे the United States.
Canada संचालित a समान कार्यक्रम that भेजा $ 4.7 अरब in supplies to the संयुक्त किंगडम और the सोवियत संघ.
The संयुक्त States किया नहीं charge for aid supplied अंतर्गत इस विधान.
इस program थी a निर्णायक कदम दूर इससे non-interventionist नीति, जिससे had dominated United States foreign relations चूंकि the समाप्त of World युद्ध I, towards अंतरराष्ट्रीय भागीदारी.
The जेरूसलम artichoke ( helianthus tuberosus ), also called sunroot, sunchoke, धरती apple or topinambour, is a species of sunflower native to eastern उत्तर अमेरिका, and found इससे eastern Canada और Maine वेस्ट to North डकोटा, और south to northern Florida and Texas.
It is भी cultivated widely across the शीतोष्ण मण्डल for इसके tuber, जिससे is used as a रूट vegetable.
कैस्टिलो सैन Felipe del morro also known as फोर्ट San फेलिप डेल morro or Morro किला, is a 16th-century citadel स्तिथ in San Juan, Puerto रीको.
stonehenge is a प्रागैतिहासिक monument in Wiltshire, England, about वेस्ट of Amesbury and उत्तर of Salisbury.
One of the सबसे famous साइट in the संसार, Stonehenge is the remains of a ring of खड़ा stones set भीतर earthworks.
it is in the मध्य of the सबसे dense complex of पाषाणकालीन and कांस्य आयु monuments in England, सहित अनेक hundred दफ़न mounds.
Archaeologists मानना it was निर्मित anywhere इससे 3000 BC to 2000 BC.
Radiocarbon डेटिंग in 2008 सुझाया कि the first पत्थरों यहूद raised between 2400 और 2200 BC, whilst another सिद्धान्त suggests कि bluestones may have महरूम raised at the site as early as 3000 BC.
the surrounding गोलाकार earth bank and खाई, which constitute the earliest phase of the monument, have महरूम dated to परिचय 3100 bc.
the site and इसके परिवेश यहूद added to the UNESCO 's सूची of संसार विरासत Sites in 1986 in a co-listing with avebury Henge.
it is a नेशनल legally protected अनुसूचित प्राचीन स्मारक.
stonehenge is स्वामित्व by the क्राउन and प्रबंधित by अंग्रेज़ी विरासत, while the surrounding land is स्वामित्व by the नेशनल विश्वास.
Archaeological प्रमाण found by the Stonehenge Riverside प्रोजेक्ट in 2008 indicates कि stonehenge could have been a burial ground from its earliest beginnings.
the dating of cremated remains found on the साईट indicate that deposits contain human अस्थि from as जल्दी as 3000 bc, when the खाई and बैंको were first dug.
ऐसे जमा जारी at stonehenge for at तनिक another 500 years.
the साईट is a प्लेस of धार्मिक significance और pilgrimage in Neo-Druidry.
the NCAA Women 's प्रभाग i Championship is an annual college basketball टूर्नामेंट for women.
Held प्रत्येक अप्रैल, the महिलाओं 's चैंपियनशिप थी उदघाटन in the 1981–82 season.
the ncaa tournament was preceded by the aiaw महिलाओं 's बास्केट Tournament, which थी आयोजित annually इससे 1972 to 1982.
Basketball was one of twelve महिलाओं 's खेल added to the NCAA चैंपियनशिप कार्यक्रम for the 1981-82 स्कूल साल, as the NCAA सगाई in battle with the संघ लिये intercollegiate Athletics लिये Women for एकमात्र शासन of महिलाओं 's collegiate sports.
the AIAW continued to conduct इसके established चैंपियनशिप कार्यक्रम in the वही बारह ( and अन्य ) खेल ; however, after a साल of dual women 's championships, the NCAA prevailed, while the AIAW disbanded.
उपस्थिति and ब्याज in the महिलाओं 's Division i चैंपियनशिप have grown over the सालो, विशेषकर since 2003, जब the final चैंपियनशिप game was स्थानांतरित to the मंगलवार following the Monday men 's चैंपियनशिप game.
the महिलाओं 's championship खेल is अभी the final overall खेल of the college basketball season.
पहले that, the Women 's फाइनल Four was प्रायः निभाई on the शुक्रवार पहले the Men 's Final चार or the hours पहले the मेन निभाई on the फाइनल शनिवार of the टूर्नामेंट.
The final थी प्रायः निभाई the संडे दोपहर following the Men 's Final Four.
the tournament कोष्ठक is बना up of champions इससे each Division I सम्मेलन, which receive स्वचालित बोलियों.
the remaining स्लॉट are at-large bids, साथ teams chosen by an NCAA चयन committee.
The selection process और tournament seedings are आधारित on अनेक कारकों, सहित team rankings, win-loss रिकॉर्ड and दरजा प्रतिशत Index ( RPI ) data.
नापसंद the मेन 's टूर्नामेंट, वहीँ हैं only 32 at-large बोलियों ( as of the अगला tournament in 2014 ), और no play-in खेल.
the महिलाओं 's टूर्नामेंट, like the men 's, is मंचन in a single विलोपन format, और is part of the media and public frenzy known colloquially as कूच दीवानगी or The Big नृत्य.
All 63 खेल have महरूम broadcast on television since 2003 on ईएसपीएन and espn2.
समान to the pre-2011 men 's टूर्नामेंट coverage on CBS, local teams are दिखाया on each चैनल जब available, साथ `` whip-around '' कवरेज designed to showcase the most competitive प्रतियोगिताओं in the rest of the country.
The rosetta स्टोन in the अंग्रेजों Museum
The rosetta Stone is an प्राचीन मिश्र granodiorite stele inscribed with a decree जारी at Memphis in 196 BC on behalf of King Ptolemy V.
The decree appears in तीन स्क्रिप्ट : the upper टेक्स्ट is Ancient Egyptian hieroglyphs, the मध्य portion Demotic स्क्रिप्ट, और the lowest प्राचीन Greek.
Because it presents essentially the वही text in all तीन scripts ( साथ कुछ minor मतभेद between them ), it provided the key to the modern understanding of Egyptian hieroglyphs.
originally displayed within a टेम्पल, the स्टोन थी probably moved दौरान the जल्दी Christian or मध्यकालीन period और आखिरकार प्रयुक्त as भवन material in the निर्माण of Fort जुलिएन निकट the town of Rashid ( rosetta ) in the Nile Delta.
it was rediscovered वहीँ in 1799 by a soldier, pierre-françois bouchard, of the French expedition to Egypt.
As the first प्राचीन मिश्र दुभाषिया text बरामद in आधुनिक टाइम्स, the rosetta Stone aroused फैली public ब्याज साथ its potential to decipher इस hitherto untranslated प्राचीन language.
Lithographic copies and plaster casts began circulating among यूरोपीय museums and विद्वानों.
Meanwhile, British सैनिकों defeated the फ्रेंच in मिश्र in 1801, और the असली stone आए into British possession under the capitulation of Alexandria.
transported to London, it रै महरूम on पब्लिक प्रदर्शक at the अंग्रेजों Museum since 1802.
It is the most-visited ऑब्जेक्ट in the British संग्रहालय.
कभी since its rediscovery, the stone रै been the focus of nationalist rivalries, including its ट्रांसफ़र from फ्रेंच to British कब्ज़ा during the napoleonic युद्धों, a long-running विवाद over the relative value of Young 's and Champollion 's योगदान to the decipherment, and since 2003, demands लिये the stone 's return to Egypt.
Study of the decree थी already under रास्ता as the पहला full translation of the Greek text appeared in 1803.
it was 20 सालो, however, पहले the transliteration of the मिश्र स्क्रिप्ट थी announced by Jean-François champollion in Paris in 1822 ; it took longer स्टिल पहले scholars यहूद able to पढ़ा Ancient Egyptian inscriptions and साहित्य confidently.
Major advances in the decoding यहूद : मान्यता that the स्टोन offered three संस्करण of the same टेक्स्ट ( 1799 ) ; कि the demotic टेक्स्ट used ध्वन्यात्मक characters to वर्तनी विदेशी names ( 1802 ) ; कि the hieroglyphic टेक्स्ट किया so as खूब, और had pervasive similarities to the demotic ( Thomas यंग, 1814 ) ; और that, in addition to होने used लिये विदेशी names, ध्वन्यात्मक characters यहूद भी प्रयुक्त to spell देशी Egyptian words ( champollion, 1822–1824 ).
दो other fragmentary नक़ल of the same decree were खोजा बाद, and अनेक similar Egyptian bilingual or trilingual inscriptions हैं now ज्ञात, सहित दो slightly पहले Ptolemaic डिक्री ( the डिक्री of canopus in 238 BC, और the मेम्फिस डिक्री of टॉलेमी iv, ca. 218 bc ).
the rosetta Stone is इसलिए no longer unique, लकिन it थी the अनिवार्य key to modern समझना of प्राचीन Egyptian साहित्य और civilization.
The term rosetta Stone is अभी प्रयुक्त in अन्य contexts as the नाम for the essential clue to a नई field of ज्ञान.
ज़हर डार्ट मेंढक ( also dart-poison मेंढक, ज़हर मेंढक or formerly ज़हर तीर मेंढक ) is the आम name of a समूह of मेंढक in the परिवार dendrobatidae जिससे are देशी to सेंट्रल और दक्षिण America.
These प्रजाति are diurnal और often have brightly colored लाशें.
Although all wild dendrobatids हैं at least somewhat toxic, levels of toxicity vary considerably इससे one प्रजाति to the अगला and from एक population to another.
Many प्रजाति हैं threatened.
ये amphibians हैं often पुकारा `` डार्ट frogs '' due to the Amerindians ' indigenous use of उनके to poison the tips of blowdarts.
however, of over 175 प्रजाति, तभी चार have महरूम प्रलेखित as होने प्रयुक्त for इस purpose ( curare पौधे हैं more commonly used ), सब of which आइये इससे the phyllobates genus, जिससे is characterized by the relatively large आकार और ऊँची स्तर of toxicity of इसके सदस्यों.
cajeta is a मैक्सिकन confection of thickened सिरप usually बना of sweetened caramelised मिल्क.
according to शेफ़ रिक Bayless, the नाम लिये cajeta came इससे the Spanish phrase al punto de cajeta, which means `` a द्रव thickened to the point at which a चमचा drawn through the द्रव reveals the bottom of the घट in जिससे it is होने पकाया ''.
Another hypothesis is कि it takes its नाम इससे the small लकड़ी boxes in which it थी traditionally packed.
Mexican cajeta is considered a specialty of the नगर of celaya in the state of Guanajuato, although it is also उत्पादित with the traditional विधि in several towns of the state of jalisco, such as Mazamitla, Sayula, and atotonilco el Alto.
cajeta is made by simmering बकरी 's मिल्क, or occasionally a sweetened द्रव, stirring frequently, until it becomes बहुत viscous due to वाष्पीकरण of जल, and caramelized.
जबकि goat milk is the most usual base, other liquids or juices may be used.
in celaya, और eventually the बाकी of Mexico, the confection of हाफ बकरी 's मिल्क और हाफ गाय 's मिल्क became known by the name cajeta, but elsewhere, the milk कैंडी became known as leche quemada, जलेबी de leche, इत्यादि.
it रै cousins in the many भारतीय milk-based sweets जैसे pera और the milk fudge burfi, and in the opera फ़ज of the u.S. Cajeta is खाया on इसके अपना as a sweet, as a spread or भरना लिये breads and pastries, ऐसे as churros, and as a topping लिये ice cream.
Certain liquors are added to special व्यंजनों पुकारा cajeta envinada.
In addition, cajeta envinada especial is समृद्ध with raisins, almonds, pecans or nuts.
प्रायः it is प्रयुक्त as a topping लिये crêpes, as a मीठी sauce boiled and softened down साथ मिल्क to soak the crepes, resulting in a tasty मिठाई.
in Mexico अनेक brands मेक cajeta but the most common brand is coronado.
it is भी very आम to place cajeta between obleas to make a traditional Mexican dessert.
Prince William, Duke of Cambridge ( William आर्थर फिलिप Louis ; born 21 June 1982 ), is the elder बेटे of Charles, Prince of वेल्स, and Diana, Princess of वेल्स, and third-eldest पोता of Queen एलिज़ाबेथ ii and Prince फिलिप, Duke of Edinburgh.
he is दूसरी in the line of succession, behind his father, to the तख्तों of सोलह स्वतंत्र sovereign राज्य ज्ञात as the राष्ट्रमंडल realms : the संयुक्त किंगडम, Canada, Australia, New जीलैंड, Jamaica, बारबाडोस, The बहामा, हरा, Papua नई गिनी, the Solomon आइलैंड्स, Tuvalu, संत Lucia, Saint विंसेंट and the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua and बारबूडा, and Saint किट्स and Nevis.
Prince William was educated at four schools in the United किंगडम और प्राप्त a degree इससे the University of St Andrews.
He spent भाग of a gap year in Chile, Belize, तंजानिया, और Kenya जहाँ he has lived और holidayed अनेक times.
प्रिंस William has also taken kiswahili studies at universities in Kenya and तंजानिया.
he थी commissioned as a Lieutenant in the ब्लूज़ और Royals Regiment of the Household Cavalry —serving with उसके brother Prince Harry —and, दो years later, earned his wings by completing पायलट training at royal Air फ़ोर्स College Cranwell.
In 2009, he transferred to the royal Air फ़ोर्स, थी प्रचारित to उड़ान Lieutenant and underwent हेलीकाप्टर flying training in order to become a full-time पायलट with the ढूंढें और Rescue फ़ोर्स.
In 2010, he completed his सामान्य और special-to-type हेलीकाप्टर प्रशिक्षण और गई on to raf घाटी on no. 22 स्क्वाड्रन performing co-pilot कर्तव्य on board a समुद्र किंग ढूंढें and rescue helicopter.
Prince William शादीशुदा his longtime girlfriend, कैथरीन Middleton, on 29 April 2011 at Westminster Abbey.
Hours prior to उसके विवाह, Prince विलियम थी निर्मित ड्यूक of कैम्ब्रिज, Earl of Strathearn, और Baron carrickfergus.
माली is a बहुभाषी country.
The भाषाएं spoken वहीँ प्रतिबिंबित ancient settlement पैटर्न, migrations, और इसके long इतिहास.
ऍथनोलॉग counts 50 भाषाएं.
of these, French is the आधिकारिक language and bambara is the सबसे widely बोला.
altogether 13 of the indigenous languages of माली have the legal औकात of national language.
चिह्न in फ्रेंच, at a monument in बमाको.
{ { Infobox अवकाश
चाइनीज New Year
9 – 12 February ( वियतनाम )
Rogers भवन, the मुख्यालय of रोजर्स संचार
रोजर्स Communications Inc. is a diversified पब्लिक कनाडाई communications और मीडिया company.
it is विशेषकर in the फ़ील्ड of wireless communications, केबल टेलीविज़न, टेलीफोन, and Internet कनेक्टिविटी साथ significant अतिरिक्त दूरसंचार and द्रव्यमान media assets.
the कम्पनी is headquartered in the Rogers Building in टोरंटो, ओंटारियो.
the कम्पनी दावा the heritage of the Rogers Vacuum Tube कम्पनी, संस्थापित in 1925 by Edward रोजर्स, which प्रारंभ the cfrb radio स्टेशन in Toronto, which थी later acquired by outside interests.
The present enterprise dates to 1960, जब रोजर्स ' बेटे, टेड Rogers, founded रोजर्स Radio प्रसारण Ltd.
That company acquired CHFI कि year, as खूब as Aldred-Rogers Broadcasting, a partnership साथ जोएल Aldred जिससे helped launch CFTO in 1961.
Rogers later bought out aldred और started the वर्तमान केबल and wireless परिचालन, ज्ञात as रोजर्स cablesystems Ltd.
The chief प्रतिस्पर्धी to the कम्पनी is Bell कनाडा, जिससे has a similarly extensive पोर्टफोलियो of रेडियो और टेलीविज़न media एसेट, as well as wireless, television वितरण, and telephone सेवाएं, विशेषकर in Eastern और Central कनाडा ; the two companies are प्रायः देखी as having a द्वयाधिकार on संचार services in उनके regions.
however, the company भी competes nationally साथ Telus for बेतार सेवाएं, और primarily indirectly साथ शॉ संचार for television सेवा.
The कम्पनी भी competes साथ a क्रमांक of अन्य मीडिया कंपनियाँ in the प्रसारण उद्योग.
the अंतरजाल is a वैश्विक प्रणाली of interconnected कंप्यूटर networks that use the standard Internet protocol suite ( TCP/IP ) to serve अरबों of users विश्वव्यापी.
It is a संजाल of संजाल कि consists of millions of निजी, पब्लिक, अकादमिक, business, and सरकारी संजाल, of local to वैश्विक scope, कि हैं linked by a व्यापक array of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक, बेतार और ऑप्टिकल नेटवर्किंग technologies.
The अंतरजाल carries an extensive दायरा of सूचना resources and सेवाएं, such as the inter-linked हाइपरटेक्स्ट दस्तावेज़ of the World Wide Web ( www ) और the infrastructure to support ईमेल.
Most परंपरागत communications media सहित telephone, music, film, and television हैं होने reshaped or redefined by the Internet, giving जनम to नई सेवाएं such as voice over अंतरजाल Protocol ( voip ) and Internet Protocol television ( IPTV ).
समाचारपत्र, किताब और other print publishing हैं adapting to Web site technology, or are reshaped into blogging और वेब फ़ीड्स.
The Internet रै enabled and त्वरित नई फ़ॉर्म of इंसान interactions through तत्काल messaging, Internet forums, and सोशल networking.
ऑनलाइन shopping has boomed दोनो for major खुदरा outlets और छोटी शिल्पकार और traders.
Business-to-business and financial services on the Internet affect सप्लाई chains across entire उद्योग.
The origins of the Internet पहुँचें back to research commissioned by the United States सरकारी in the 1960s to निर्माण robust, fault-tolerant communication via कंप्यूटर संजाल.
The funding of a नई U.S. backbone by the National विज्ञान Foundation in the 1980s, as खूब as private funding लिये other वाणिज्यिक backbones, led to worldwide participation in the development of नई नेटवर्किंग technologies, और the विलय of अनेक संजाल.
The commercialization of कया थी by the 1990s an international संजाल resulted in इसके popularization और incorporation into virtually every पहलू of आधुनिक human life.
, more than 2.4 अरब people—over a third of the संसार 's human जनसांख्यिकी —have used the सेवाएं of the Internet ; approximately 100 टाइम्स more लोगों than यहूद using it in 1995, जब it थी ज़्यादातर प्रयुक्त by tech-savvy मध्य और upper class लोगों in the United States और several other देशों.
The Internet has no centralized governance in either technological implementation or policies लिये access and usage ; प्रत्येक constituent संजाल सेट its अपना policies.
Only the overreaching definitions of the two प्रिंसिपल नाम स्पेसेस in the Internet, the अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल पता space और the Domain नाम प्रणाली, हैं निर्देशित by a maintainer संगठन, the अंतरजाल निगम for आबंटित Names and Numbers ( icann ).
the तकनीकी underpinning और मानकीकरण of the core प्रोटोकॉल ( IPv4 and ipv6 ) is an कार्यकलाप of the अंतरजाल अभियान्त्रिकी कार्य Force ( IETF ), a non-profit संगठन of loosely संबद्ध international participants कि anyone may associate साथ by contributing तकनीकी expertise.
The 2006 Winter Olympics, officially ज्ञात as the XX Olympic Winter खेल, थी a शीत multi-sport इवेंट जिससे was मनाये in Turin, इटली from February 10, 2006, through फ़रवरी 26, 2006.
इस marked the second समय Italy hosted the Olympic Winter खेल, the first being the सात Olympic शीत Games in Cortina d'ampezzo in 1956.
इटली भी hosted the खेल of the xvii Olympiad in Rome in 1960.
Turin was selected as the host नगर लिये the 2006 खेल in 1999.
the आधिकारिक logo प्रदर्शित the name `` Torino '', the इतालवी नाम of the नगर ; the city is known as `` Turin '' in दोनो English and the local परंपरागत language, Piedmontese.
the ओलम्पिक mascots of Torino 2006 were Neve ( `` हिम '' in Italian ), a female स्नोबॉल, और gliz, a पुरूष बर्फ cube.
The official motto of the xx ओलम्पिक शीत खेल was `` Passion जीवनदान here ''.
`` सहायता ! '' is a सोंग by the Beatles that परोसा as the title सोंग for both the 1965 film and its साउंडट्रैक एल्बम.
It थी भी released as a single, and थी number एक for three weeks in दोनो the United States and the United किंगडम.
`` सहायता ! '' was written primarily by John लेनन, लकिन credited to Lennon–McCartney.
During an इंटरव्यू with Playboy in 1984, Paul mccartney stated that the title थी `` out of छटपटाहट ''.
Poster for the 2005 exhibition
siegfried bing ( 26 February 1838 – 6 सितंबर 1905 ), who usually gave उसके नाम as S. bing, and was यूँ प्रायः referenced erroneously as `` सैमुएल Bing '' ( Samuel Otto Bing, 1850–1905, was उसके brother ) was a जर्मनी आर्ट dealer जो जिया in Paris as an adult, और जो helped introduce जापानी आर्ट और artworks to the वेस्ट and was a factor in the development of the Art देवानंद स्टाइल दौरान the late उन्नीसवीं century.
Comparison of male और female life expectancy at जनम for देशों और territories as defined in the 2011 सीआईए Factbook, with चयनित bubbles labelled.
The बिंदीदार line corresponds to बराबर female और male life प्रत्याशा.
The apparent 3d आयतन of the bubbles are linearly आंशिक to उनके population.
इस is a सूची of countries by जीवन expectancy at जनम.
Kennewick is a नगर in benton County in the southeastern part of the u.S. state of वॉशिंगटन, निकट the hanford नाभिकीय साईट.
it is the most populous of the तीन शहरों collectively referred to as the tri-cities ( the अन्य being Pasco and richland ).
Kennewick is स्तिथ along the southwest बैंको of the कोलंबिया River, विपरीत pasco and बस south of the confluence of the Columbia और yakima नदियाँ.
The population was 73,917 at the 2010 census.
अप्रैल 1, 2012 estimates इससे the Washington राज्य दफ्तर of वित्तीय Management put the city 's population at 75,160.
The nearest commercial airport is the tri-cities Airport in Pasco, a regional commercial and private airport.
फोर्ब्स पत्रिका named kennewick the # 2 area in the संयुक्त States लिये जॉब विकास, जबकि आसपास yakima was named # 1.
the आलेख cites the क्रमांक of वैज्ञानिकों employed by the Pacific Northwest नेशनल प्रयोगशाला and क्षेत्रफल farmland for this आउटलुक.
The prothrombin समय ( PT ) और its निकला measures of prothrombin ratio ( pr ) and international normalized अनुपात ( INR ) हैं measures of the extrinsic pathway of जामन.
इस test is also पुकारा `` protime inr '' और `` PT/INR ''.
They are used to determine the clotting tendency of रक्त, in the measure of warfarin dosage, liver damage, and विटामिन k status.
pt उपायों कारकों I ( fibrinogen ), ii ( prothrombin ), V, सात, and x.
it is used in conjunction with the activated partial thromboplastin time ( aPTT ) which उपायों the intrinsic pathway.
`` i 'm in the मनोदशा for Love '' is a popular सोंग.
the म्यूज़िक was written by jimmy mchugh, the गीत by Dorothy फ़ील्ड.
the song was प्रकाशित in 1935.
it was introduced by frances langford in the movie प्रत्येक Night at आठ released that year.
The song was प्रदर्शित in the 1936 Our गिरोह ( Little Rascals ) short, The Pinch Singer, सुंग by Carl `` Alfalfa '' switzer, and in the 1936 film Palm Springs.
It is प्रायः known to be Switzer 's signature सोंग.
James मूडी 's saxophone solo on a 1952 रिकॉर्डिंग of this song inspired the song `` मूडी 's मनोदशा लिये Love ``.
हिप hop कलाकार प्रिंस Paul sampled the song as the basis लिये the track `` मनोदशा for Love '' on उसके album A प्रिंस Among Thieves ( 1999 ), साथ डॉन newkirk singing its असली lyrics.
The song 's शीर्षक प्रेरित the English title of Wong kar Wai 's फिल्म In the Mood लिये Love.
cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान is the वैज्ञानिक पढ़ाई of human बर्ताव और दिमागी processes, including दोनो उनके variability और invariance, अंतर्गत विविध सांस्कृतिक conditions.
Through expanding शोध methodologies to recognize सांस्कृतिक variance in बर्ताव, भाषा, और meaning it seeks to extend और develop psychology.
चूंकि psychology as an academic discipline थी विकसित largely in उत्तर अमेरिका, some psychologists became concerned कि constructs accepted as सार्वभौमिक यहूद not as invariant as previously assumed, विशेषकर since many attempts to replicate notable experiments in other संस्कृतियों था varying success.
चूंकि there हैं सवाल as to whether theories dealing साथ सेंट्रल themes, ऐसे as affect, संज्ञान, conceptions of the self, and मुद्दे such as psychopathology, anxiety, और depression, may lack external validity जब `` exported '' to अन्य cultural contexts, cross-cultural psychology re-examines उन्हें using methodologies designed to factor in सांस्कृतिक मतभेद so as to खाता लिये cultural variance.
Although some आलोचकों have pointed to methodological खामियां in cross-cultural मनोवैज्ञानिक research and अर्जी कि serious shortcomings in the सैद्धांतिक and methodological bases प्रयुक्त impede rather than help the वैज्ञानिक ढूंढें for सार्वभौमिक सिद्धान्त in मनोविज्ञान, cross-cultural psychologists are turning more to the पढ़ाई of कैसा मतभेद ( variance ) occur, बल्कि than searching लिये universals in the स्टाइल of भौतिकी or chemistry.
in 1972 the International Association of Cross-Cultural Psychology ( iaccp ) थी established.
This branch of मनोविज्ञान रै जारी to विस्तार as वहीँ has महरूम an increasing popularity of incorporating संस्कृति और diversity into अध्ययन.
Cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान is differentiated from Cultural psychology.
The latter is the branch of psychology that holds कि human behavior is significantly influenced by सांस्कृतिक differences, meaning कि मनोवैज्ञानिक phenomena can only be compared with प्रत्येक अन्य आरपार संस्कृतियों to a very सीमित extent.
in कंट्रास्ट, cross-cultural psychology शामिल a ढूंढें for संभावित universals in behavior और mental प्रक्रियाओं.
Walter J. lonner, writing लिये Eye on Psi ची, रै stated कि `` cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान can be thought of as a type research methodology, rather than an entirely separate field भीतर मनोविज्ञान ( 2000 ). ''
`` Judas '' is a सोंग by अमरीकी recording कलाकार Lady Gaga, इससे her दूसरी स्टुडियो album Born इस Way ( 2011 ).
It was released by interscope रिकॉर्ड on April 15, 2011, चार दिनों ahead of its अनुसूचित रिलीज.
लिखा और produced by Lady Gaga and RedOne, `` Judas '' is a नृत्य और इलेक्ट्रो हाउस सोंग about a woman in प्रेम साथ a man जो गद्दारी her.
It embodies the incidents that have haunted Gaga in the पास्ट, and इसके core अर्थ refers to the ऋणात्मक भाग of her जीवन कि she ca n't एस्केप.
गागा has further explained कि the song was also परिचय honoring one 's inner अंधेरा in अनुक्रम to bring oneself into the light.
The artwork for the सिंगल थी designed by गागा in Microsoft Word.
In spite of a polarizing प्रभाव on several धार्मिक समूह, the सोंग थी generally well received by आलोचकों, जो likened the song to `` Bad रोमांस `` with some noting it should have महरूम the album 's सीसे single.
the सोंग has a समान sound to Gaga 's previous redone-produced ट्रैक्स, including `` पोकर Face ``, `` lovegame ``, `` Bad Romance '', और `` Alejandro ``.
It contains तीन distinct hooks और a हाउस -influenced ब्रेक bas.
Gaga explained that the lines बोला दौरान the breakdown talk about उसके as परे redemption, regarding the traditional दृश्य of कया a स्त्री should be.
`` यहूदा '' initially had a दमदार sales opening, लकिन थी less successful commercially in comparison to Gaga 's previous singles.
The सोंग reached the शीर्ष टेन of the charts in most major music markets, और also reached the top of the charts in दक्षिण Korea.
A music video for the song थी फिल्माया in अप्रैल 2011, co-directed by गागा and Laurieann Gibson and co-starring नॉर्मन Reedus.
It रै a Biblical कथानक where Reedus निभाई यहूदा इस्कैरियट and Gaga played Mary Magdalene.
The वीडियो portrays them as modern day प्रचारकों going to जेरूसलम.
it शामिल the biblical स्टोरी of यहूदा betraying Jesus, और ended with गागा as magdalene getting stoned to मौत.
Before its release, the कैथोलिक लीग condemned गागा for the alleged उपयोग of धार्मिक imagery and her role in the video.
However, critics generally praised the वीडियो, नहीं finding any अप्रिय content.
The video थी मनोनीत for two awards at the 2011 एमटीवी Video Music पुरस्कार.
गागा रै performed `` यहूदा '' on a क्रमांक of television shows, including the Graham Norton दिखाएँ, शनिवार रात्रि Live, शुभ morning americas `` Summer कॉन्सर्ट Series '', the फ्रेंच x Factor as खूब as on The एलेन degeneres दिखाएँ.
h.264/mpeg-4 Part 10 or avc ( Advanced वीडियो Coding ) is a मानक for वीडियो compression, और is currently एक of the most commonly used formats लिये the recording, compression, और distribution of high definition वीडियो.
The फाइनल drafting work on the first version of the standard was completed in may 2003.
H.264/MPEG-4 AVC is a block-oriented motion-compensation -आधारd codec standard developed by the itu-t Video कोडिंग विशेषज्ञ Group ( vceg ) together साथ the ISO/IEC JTC1 चलती चित्र Experts Group ( एमपीईजी ).
the project साझेदारी प्रयत्न is ज्ञात as the Joint वीडियो Team ( JVT ).
The itu-t h.264 standard और the iso/iec mpeg-4 avc standard ( formally, iso/iec 14496-10 – MPEG-4 भाग 10, उन्नत Video Coding ) are jointly कायम so that they have identical technical content.
h.264 is perhaps best ज्ञात as being one of the कोडेक मानकों लिये Blu-ray discs ; सब blu-ray डिस्क players जरूर be समर्थ to decode h.264.
It is भी widely used by स्ट्रीमिंग अंतरजाल sources, such as वीडियो इससे vimeo, YouTube, and the iTunes Store, वेब तन्त्र ऐसे as the adobe Flash Player and microsoft Silverlight, and भी विभिन्न HDTV broadcasts over terrestrial ( ATSC, ISDB-T, dvb-t or DVB-T2 ), केबल ( dvb-c ) और satellite ( DVB-S और DVB-S2 ).
non-binding मध्यस्थता is a type of मध्यस्थता in which the arbitrator makes a determination of the rights of the पार्टियों to the dispute, लकिन this determination is not binding upon them, और no enforceable मध्यस्थता पुरस्कार is जारी.
the `` award '' is in effect an सलाहकार राय of the arbitrator 's दृश्य of the संबंधित merits of the parties cases.
non-binding arbitration is used in connection with कोशिशें to पहुँचें a negotiated settlement.
the भूमिका of an arbitrator in non-binding arbitration is, on the सतह, समान to that of a मध्यस्थ in a मध्यस्थता.
However, the प्रिंसिपल भेद is that whereas a मध्यस्थ will try to help the parties ढूँढें a मध्य मैदान to compromise at, the arbitrator remains totally removed from the उपनिवेश process and will तभी give a determination of liability and, if उचित, an indication of the क्वांटम of damages देय.
Subsequent to a non-binding मध्यस्थता, the parties remain free to pursue their दावा either through the courts, or by रास्ता of a binding मध्यस्थता, हालांकि in अभ्यास a उपनिवेश is the सबसे common outcome.
The award और तर्क in a non-binding arbitration is almost invariably inadmissible in कोई subsequent action in the courts or in another arbitration ट्रिब्यूनल.
non-binding मध्यस्थता is utilised mostly in the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा.
it is largely अनजान in Europe, हालांकि in the संयुक्त Kingdom वहीँ is a practice of parties who are seeking a settlement to jointly instruct a Queen 's Counsel for an opinion on the merits and संभावित quantum of a claim, और then to negotiate on the basis of the views expressed in कि राय.
अगस्टाइन Volcano is a Lava Dome जटिल on Augustine Island in southwestern Cook इनलेट in the Kenai प्रायद्वीप बरो of southcentral तटीय Alaska, दक्षिणपश्चिम of Anchorage.
The Alaska Volcano Observatory currently दरों Mount अगस्टाइन as Level of Concern रंग Code Green लिये विमानन and the Volcano Alert स्तर is at Normal.
अगस्टाइन Island रै a जमीन area of, while West द्वीप, just बंद Augustine 's western shores, रै.
The द्वीप is made up मुख्यतः of पास्ट फटना deposits.
वैज्ञानिकों have been समर्थ to discern कि past गुम्बद पतन रै resulted in विशाल avalanches.
a map of बेलीज़.
the देश of बेलीज़ रै roughly 386 km of coastline, and has many मूँगा reefs, cays, और आइलैंड्स in the Caribbean समुद्र.
सबसे of these form the बेलीज़ अवरोध Reef, the longest in the पश्चिमी गोलार्ध stemming लगभग.
the reef and its आइलैंड्स have महरूम a युनेस्को संसार Heritage साईट since 1996.
the following is a list of oceanic islands of Belize, arranged according to प्रदेश लकिन सब of which हैं in the Caribbean समुद्र.
सबसे of the आइलैंड्स variate in spelling between `` cay '' और `` caye '', और भी use the स्पेनी `` cayo ''.
River आइलैंड्स have नहीं महरूम सूचीबद्ध.
ड्राइव अक्षर Access ( DLA ) is a discontinued वाणिज्यिक पैकेट लिखने अनुप्रयोग लिये the Microsoft Windows operating system कि allows ऑप्टिकल डिस्क आंकड़ा भंडार डिवाइस to be used in a manner similar to फ्लॉपी डिस्क.
dla is a पैकेट writing technology लिये cd और DVD media कि उपयोग the UDF संचिका प्रणाली.
DLA is not compatible with Windows Vista and नए, although a patch exists to फिक्स इस समस्या अंतर्गत Windows Vista.
Roxio बर्न was introduced on April 30, 2009.
As a बदलना for dla, it remedies compatibility मुद्दे Internet Explorer 8.
अल्फा रेक्स emmanuel Humbard ( अगस्त 13, 1919 – September 21, 2007 ) was a well-known American television इंजीलवादी जिनकी Cathedral of Tomorrow show थी दिखाया on over 600 स्टेशन at the शिखर of its popularity.
असीमित is a 2011 American thriller film directed by Neil बर्गर और starring ब्राडली Cooper, abbie Cornish, and रॉबर्ट De Niro.
It is आधारित on the 2001 अनोखा the अंधेरा Fields by एलन Glynn साथ the screenplay by लेस्ली डिक्सन.
Alaska ( ) is a राज्य in the United States, situated in the northwest extremity of the North अमरीकी महाद्वीप, with the international boundary with कनाडा to the east, the आर्कटिक समंदर to the north, and the Pacific Ocean to the west और south, साथ Russia further west आरपार the Bering जलसन्धि.
अलास्का is the largest राज्य in the संयुक्त States by क्षेत्रफल, the 4th least populous and the तनिक densely populated of the 50 United States.
लगभग हाफ of अलास्का 's 731,449 residents live within the Anchorage महानगर क्षेत्रफल.
अलास्का 's अर्थव्यवस्था is dominated by the आयल, natural gas, और fishing उद्योग ; it has these संसाधन in abundance.
अलास्का was purchased from Russia on कूच 30, 1867, लिये $ 7.2 million ( $ समायोजित लिये inflation ) at लगभग two सेंट प्रति एकड़ ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
the जमीन went through several administrative changes पहले बनने an organized ( or incorporated ) territory on may 11, 1912, and the 49th state of the U.S. on जनवरी 3, 1959.
The नाम `` अलास्का '' ( Аляска ) थी already introduced in the रूसी औपनिवेशिक काल, जब it was प्रयुक्त only लिये the peninsula और is derived इससे the aleut alaxsxaq, अर्थ `` the मेनलैंड '' or, more literally, `` the ऑब्जेक्ट towards which the action of the समुद्र is निर्देशित ''.
it is also known as alyeska, the `` ग्रेट जमीन '', an aleut word derived इससे the same root.
नेल्सन मंडेला Metropolitan विश्वविद्यालयों ( NMMU ) is a South अफ़्रीकी tertiary शिक्षा संस्था साथ इसके main प्रशासन in the coastal नगर of बंदरगाहों एलिज़ाबेथ.
A merging of तीन संस्थानों founded nmmu in जनवरी 2005 but इसके history dates वापस to 1882 with the न्यास of बंदरगाहों Elizabeth आर्ट School.
The University draws international students इससे सब over the संसार.
वहीँ are over 3000 international students और include विद्यार्थी इससे the United राज्य, France, China, Germany, बेल्जियम, Denmark, Finland, Netherlands, नार्वे, Sweden, United किंगडम and अनेक अन्य countries.
NMMU is a comprehensive विश्वविद्यालयों offering पेशेवर and vocational प्रशिक्षण.
the विश्वविद्यालयों रै छह campuses - पाँच in बंदरगाहों एलिज़ाबेथ और one in जार्ज.
the main कैम्पस is the दक्षिण Campus.
विद्यार्थी at nmmu can study towards diplomas and डिग्री up to and including doctoral स्तर योग्यता.
a क्रमांक of पाठ्यक्रम include कार्यस्थल experience as part of the curriculum.
CoverGirl is an American cosmetics ब्रांड founded in मेरीलैंड, by the noxzema Chemical Company ( बाद पुकारा noxell ) और acquired by procter & Gamble in 1989.
the Noxell Company advertised this cosmetics लकीर by allowing `` cover लड़कियों '', फ़ैशन models who appear on the सामने cover of women 's magazines, to पहनें इसके उत्पाद.
CoverGirl makes up लिये lack of सीधा individual customer service by providing a चौड़ी किस्में of कॉस्मेटिक्स उपलब्धियाँ at reasonable कीमतें.
On the उत्पत्ति of प्रजाति, published on 24 November 1859, is a कार्य of scientific साहित्य by चार्ल्स डार्विन जिससे is माना to be the न्यास of evolutionary जीवविज्ञान.
Its पूरा title थी on the Origin of प्रजाति by अर्थात् of प्राकृतिक Selection, or the संरक्षण of favoured Races in the संघर्ष for जीवन.
For the sixth edition of 1872, the short शीर्षक थी changed to The Origin of Species.
डार्विन 's book introduced the scientific theory that populations evolve over the कोर्स of generations through a process of natural चयन.
It प्रस्तुत a देह of evidence that the विविधता of जीवन arose by common descent through a branching pattern of एवोल्यूशन.
Darwin included प्रमाण that he था gathered on the beagle expedition in the 1830s और उसके subsequent निष्कर्षों from शोध, correspondence, and experimentation.
Various विकासवादी ideas था already महरूम प्रस्तावित to explain नई findings in biology.
वहीँ थी growing support for ऐसे ideas among dissident anatomists and the general public, लकिन दौरान the पहला half of the 19th century the अंग्रेज़ी scientific स्थापना was closely tied to the Church of England, जबकि विज्ञान थी भाग of प्राकृतिक theology.
विचार about the transmutation of species were controversial as they विरोधी with the beliefs कि species यहूद अपरिवर्तनशील भाग of a designed पदानुक्रम और कि इंसानो were unique, unrelated to अन्य animals.
The political and theological implications were पडती debated, but transmutation was नहीं accepted by the वैज्ञानिक मुख्यधारा.
The book थी लिखा लिये non-specialist पाठक and attracted फैली interest upon its प्रकाशन.
As Darwin थी an eminent scientist, his findings were taken seriously और the प्रमाण he presented उत्पन्न वैज्ञानिक, philosophical, और religious चर्चा.
the बहस over the किताब contributed to the अभियान by t.h. Huxley और his fellow members of the X क्लबों to secularise science by promoting वैज्ञानिक naturalism.
भीतर two दशकों there was widespread scientific अनुबंध that एवोल्यूशन, साथ a branching pattern of common descent, था occurred, but वैज्ञानिकों यहूद slow to give प्राकृतिक selection the significance कि डार्विन thought उचित.
दौरान the `` eclipse of डार्विनवाद `` इससे the 1880s to the 1930s, various अन्य mechanisms of evolution were दिए अधिक क्रेडिट.
साथ the development of the modern विकासवादी संश्लेषण in the 1930s and 1940s, Darwin 's concept of evolutionary adaptation through प्राकृतिक चयन became सेंट्रल to आधुनिक विकासवादी सिद्धान्त, now the unifying concept of the जीवन sciences.
चार्ल्स डिलन `` केसी '' स्टेंगल ( ; जुलाई 30, 1890 – September 29, 1975 ), nicknamed `` The Old Perfessor '', was an American Major लीग Baseball outfielder and manager.
he थी निर्वाचित to the Baseball Hall of Fame in.
Stengel was born in कान्सास नगर, मिसौरी, और originally nicknamed `` डच '', a common nickname at कि समय लिये अमेरिकी of जर्मनी ancestry.
बाद his प्रमुख league करियर began, he acquired the nickname `` Casey '', which originally आए from the initials of उसके hometown ( `` K. C. '' ), which evolved into `` केसी '', बहकावे by the चौड़ी लोकप्रियता of the कविता Casey at the चमगादड़.
In the 1950s, sportswriters उतावले उसे with yet another उपनाम, `` the बूढ़ा Professor '' ( or `` Perfessor '' ), लिये his sharp wit and his ability to बात at लंबाई on anything बेसबॉल -सुनानाd.
हालांकि his baseball करियर spanned a क्रमांक of टीमों and शहरों, he is primarily associated with clubs in नई यॉर्क नगर.
between playing and मैनेजिंग, he is the तभी man to have worn four of New यॉर्क 's प्रमुख league clubs ' वर्दी.
he was the first of चार मेन ( through the season ) to manage दोनो the नई यॉर्क Yankees और New यॉर्क मेट्स ; योगी Berra, डलास ग्रीन, and Joe Torre हैं the अन्य.
जैसे Torre, he भी प्रबंधित the Braves और the Dodgers.
he ended his baseball करियर as the beloved manager लिये the then expansion New यॉर्क Mets, which won over the दिल of New York partly due to the unique अक्षर of उनके दिग्गज leader.
June ( ) is the sixth माह of the year in the Julian और gregorian calendars and एक of the four महीने साथ a लंबाई of 30 days.
ओविड provides दो etymologies लिये जून 's नाम in his poem concerning the महीने entitled the fasti.
the पहला is that the माह is नामित बाद the रोमन goddess Juno, wife of बृहस्पति और equivalent to the Greek देवी hera ; the second is that the name आता from the Latin शब्द iuniores, अर्थ `` younger ones, '' as opposed to maiores ( `` elders '' ) लिये जिससे the preceding month may may be named ( Fasti VI.1–88 ).
देखिए : Months in various पंचांग भी पुकारा the ऋतु of the June is the माह साथ the longest daylight hours of the year in the उत्तरी Hemisphere and the shortest daylight hours of the साल in the दक्षिणी Hemisphere.
जून in the उत्तरी Hemisphere is the seasonal equivalent to December in the दक्षिणी Hemisphere and vice versa.
In the उत्तरी hemisphere, the शुरूआत of the meteorological summer is 1 June.
in the Southern गोलार्ध, the शुरूआत of the meteorological winter is 1 जून.
at the start of June, the सूर्य उदय in the नक्षत्र of Taurus ; at the समाप्त of जून, the sun उदय in the नक्षत्र of Gemini.
however, due to the precession of the equinoxes, जून begins with the sun in the astrological चिह्न of मिथुन, and ends साथ the sun in the astrological चिह्न of कर्कट.
June is known for the विशाल क्रमांक of विवाह कि occur over the कोर्स of the माह.
According to one etymology, जून is नामित बाद juno ( Hera ).
juno was the देवी of marriage और a married युगल 's household, so कुछ consider it good लक to be married in इस month.
According to another etymology provided by the Roman कवि ओविड, June is नामित for the iuniores, लैटिन for `` young लोगों '' ( fasti VI.88 ) और कि the माह of May is named लिये the maiores, Latin for `` elders ''.
in Iceland, लोकगीत says कि if you bathe नग्न in the morning dew on the morning of जून 24, तुम are supposed to keep aging at खाड़ी लिये longer.
A संविधान is a set of आधारभूत principles or established precedents according to जिससे a state or other संगठन is governed.
These नियम साथ make up, i.e. constitute, what the एंटिटी is.
When these principles हैं written down into a सिंगल दस्तावेज़ or नियत of legal दस्तावेज़, those documents may be said to embody a लिखा constitution ; if वे हैं लिखा down in a single comprehensive दस्तावेज़, it is said to embody a codified संविधान.
Constitutions concern अलग स्तर of organizations, from sovereign states to companies and unincorporated associations.
a treaty which establishes an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन is भी इसके constitution, in कि it होता define कैसा कि संगठन is constituted.
भीतर राज्य, whether sovereign or federated, a constitution defines the सिद्धान्त upon जिससे the state is based, the procedure in which laws हैं बना और by जिसको.
कुछ constitutions, विशेषकर संहिताबद्ध constitutions, also act as limiters of state power, by establishing lines जिससे a state 's शासकों can not cross, such as fundamental अधिकारों.
George Washington at संवैधानिक Convention of 1787, हस्ताक्षर of U.S. संविधान.
the संविधान of India is the longest written संविधान of any sovereign देश in the संसार, containing 448 आलेख, 12 schedules and 100 amendments, with 117,369 शब्द in its English भाषा version, जबकि the United States संविधान is the shortest लिखा constitution, at 7 आलेख और 27 amendments.
Ron diftler ( left ), नासा robonaut manager assisting in a Robonaut familiarization training सत्र in the स्पेस Environment सिमुलेशन प्रयोगशाला at NASA 's Johnson Space बीच.
अभियान्त्रिकी management is a specialized रूप of प्रबन्धन कि is concerned with the application of अभियान्त्रिकी सिद्धान्त to कारोबार practice.
Engineering प्रबन्धन is a करियर कि brings together the technological problem-solving savvy of engineering and the organizational, प्रशासनिक, और नियोजन abilities of management in order to oversee complex enterprises इससे conception to completion.
उदाहरण areas of engineering are product विकास, निर्माण, निर्माण, design engineering, industrial अभियान्त्रिकी, प्रौद्योगिकी, उत्पादन, or कोई other फ़ील्ड कि employs personnel जो perform an engineering function.
कामयाब engineering managers typically आवश्यकता प्रशिक्षण and experience in कारोबार and अभियान्त्रिकी.
Technically inept प्रबंधक tend to be वंचित of support by their तकनीकी टोली, and non-commercial managers tend to कमी वाणिज्यिक सूझबूझ to deliver in a मार्केट economy.
Largely, engineering managers मैनेज इंजीनियर्स who are driven by non-entrepreneurial सोच, thus आवश्यकता the necessary लोगों skills to कोच, mentor और motivate तकनीकी professionals.
अभियान्त्रिकी पेशेवर joining manufacturing कंपनियाँ sometimes become engineering प्रबंधक by डिफॉल्ट बाद a काल of समय.
वे हैं जरूरी to learn how to मैनेज एकबार they हैं on the job, हालांकि this is usually an अप्रभावी way to develop managerial abilities.
In an बीमे नीति, the deductible is the राशि of expenses that must be paid out of जेब before an insurer will pay any खर्च.
In सामान्य usage, the term deductible may be प्रयुक्त to describe one of several types of clauses ( देखिए below ) कि are प्रयुक्त by insurance companies as a दहलीज for नीति payments.
Deductibles are typically प्रयुक्त to deter the large क्रमांक of नगण्य claims that a consumer can be reasonably अपेक्षित to bear the लागत of.
by restricting इसके coverage to कार्यक्रम कि हैं significant पर्याप्त to incur large लागत, the insurance कड़ expects to अदा out थोड़ा smaller amounts much कम frequently, incurring much higher बचत.
as a परिणाम, बीमे premiums are typically cheaper जब they involve higher deductibles.
Deductibles are सामान्यतः provided as clauses in an बीमे policy that dictate कैसा much of an insurance-covered expense is borne by the policyholder.
वे हैं सामान्यतः कोटेड as a fixed quantity and is a part of most नीतियों covering नुकसान to the नीति होल्डर.
The insurer then becomes liable लिये claimable खर्च that exceed इस राशि ( subject to the maximum sum claimable indicated in the अनुबंध ).
Depending on the नीति, the deductible may लागू प्रति covered घटना, or प्रति साल.
For policies जहाँ incidences हैं not आसान to delimit ( for example health insurance ), the deductible is typically लागू per साल.
Several deductibles can be set by the insurer आधारित on the cause of the claim.
लिये उदाहरण, a सिंगल housing insurance नीति may contain अनेक deductible amounts लिये घाटा or क्षति arising इससे चोरी, आग, प्राकृतिक calamities, निकासी etc.
वहीँ are भी deductible reimbursement कार्यक्रम कि reimburse a deductible in the event of an auto, home, boat/yacht or health बीमे अर्जी.
an invoice or bill is a commercial दस्तावेज़ issued by a विक्रेता to a buyer, indicating the उत्पाद, quantities, and सहमत कीमतें for उत्पाद or सेवाएं the विक्रेता रै provided the खरीदार.
An invoice indicates the बिक्री लेनदेन only.
भुगतान शर्तें हैं independent of the invoice और are negotiated by the buyer and the seller.
भुगतान शर्तें are प्रायः included on the चालान.
the buyer could have already paid for the products or सेवाएं सूचीबद्ध on the चालान.
Buyer can भी have a maximum क्रमांक of days in which to pay लिये these goods and is sometimes offered a छूट if सशुल्क पहले the due तिथि.
In the rental उद्योग, an invoice must शामिल a विशिष्ट reference to the duration of the समय होने billed, so in जोड to quantity, दाम and discount the invoicing amount is भी आधारित on अवधि.
Generally each line of a rental चालान होगा refer to the वास्तविक hours, दिनों, weeks, महीने, etc., being billed.
इससे the point of view of a seller, an चालान is a बिक्री चालान.
इससे the point of view of a खरीदार, an चालान is a खरीदें invoice.
The document indicates the buyer और seller, लकिन the पद चालान indicates धन is owed or owing.
In अंग्रेज़ी, the context of the पद चालान is usually प्रयुक्त to clarify its अर्थ, ऐसे as `` We भेजा them an invoice '' ( they owe us money ) or `` We received an invoice from उन्हें '' ( we owe them धन ).
the right main bronchus ( or right primary bronchus, or right principal bronchus ) is a bronchus of the respiratory system.
It is wider, shorter, और more vertical in दिशा than the left.
it is परिचय 2.5 cm long, and enters the सही lung nearly विपरीत the पांचवां thoracic vertebra.
The azygos vein arches over it from behind ; and the सही pulmonary artery झूठ at first नीचे and तब in सामने of it.
परिचय 2 cm इससे its commencement it देता off a branch to the अपर पालि of the right फेफड़ों.
इस is termed the eparterial शाखा of the bronchus, because it arises ऊपर the सही pulmonary artery.
the bronchus अभी गुजरता below the धमनी, and is ज्ञात as the hyparterial शाखा ; it divides into दो branches लिये the middle और lower lobes.
if a foreign body in the airway passes through the श्वासनली, it will सबसे likely डालें the right main bronchus instead of the left, due to the straighter संरेखण of the right bronchus to the श्वासनली.
Squash is a racquet खेल निभाई by two ( singles ) or four players ( युगल ) in a four-walled अदालत with a छोटी, खोखला rubber ball.
the खिलाड़ी must alternate in striking the बॉल साथ उनके racquet and hit the ball onto the playable surfaces of the four दीवारें of the court.
the game थी formerly पुकारा स्क्वैश racquets, a सन्दर्भ to the `` squashable '' soft ball प्रयुक्त in the game ( compared with the fatter बॉल used in इसके जनक game racquets or rackets ).
स्क्वैश is recognized by the IOC and supporters are lobbying for इसके incorporation in a future ओलम्पिक कार्यक्रम.
in 2003, फोर्ब्स rated squash as the number एक healthiest खेल to खेल.
Residual आयल is आयल found in कम concentrations naturally or in exhausted आयल fields.
Often mixed with जल, it can not be बरामद by conventional तकनीकों.
However, it can be बरामद using कार्बन dioxide-enhanced आयल रिकवरी ( co2 EOR ) which involves injecting कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड into the well reducing श्यानता और enhancing प्रवाह of the oil.
The तकनीक is not नई but रै नहीं been प्रयुक्त extensively on अवशेष oil zones, low-grade जमा of पेट्रोलियम such as the 38 square miles in the permian Basin of टेक्सास leased by Elliott Roosevelt Jr.
the technique is limited by availability of कार्बन dioxide.
it does नहीं result in sequestration of the कार्बन dioxide लकिन the gas is recycled as much as possible.
संयुक्त States reserves of residual oil हैं estimated to be 100 अरब barrels.
कलाकार 's rendering of the आग, by जॉन R. chapin, originally मुद्रित in हार्पर 's साप्ताहिक ; the दृश्य faces northeast आरपार the Randolph गली सेतु.
The ग्रेट Chicago आग was a conflagration कि burned from Sunday, October 8, to जल्दी मंगलवार, अक्तूबर 10, 1871, killing hundreds and destroying परिचय in शिकागो, इलिनोइस.
Though the आग थी एक of the largest U.S. disasters of the 19th century, the पुनर्निर्माण कि began helped develop शिकागो as one of the सबसे populous and economically महत्वपूर्ण अमरीकी cities.
Henry VIII ( 28 जून 1491 – 28 जनवरी 1547 ) थी king of इंग्लैण्ड from 21 अप्रैल 1509 until his death.
He was रब, and बाद किंग, of आयरलैंड, as खूब as continuing the नाममात्र claim by the अंग्रेज़ी monarchs to the किंगडम of फ़्रांस.
हेनरी was the second monarch of the ट्यूडर dynasty, succeeding उसके पिता, Henry सात.
besides उसके छह विवाह, हेनरी VIII is ज्ञात for उसके role in the separation of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड from the Roman कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर.
हेनरी 's struggles साथ रोम led to the separation of the Church of इंग्लैण्ड इससे papal authority, the विच्छेद of the Monasteries, और his अपना establishment as the परम् सिर of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड.
Yet he remained a believer in कोर Catholic theological teachings, even बाद his excommunication from the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर.
हेनरी oversaw the legal संघ of England और Wales with the Laws in वेल्स अधिनियमों 1535 and 1542.
in 1513, the नई king allied साथ the Holy Roman Emperor, Maximillian i, and invaded फ़्रांस in 1513 with a large, well-equipped army, but हासिल छोटी at a considerable financial लागत.
Maximillian, for उसके part, प्रयुक्त the English आक्रमण to उसके own ends, and इस prejudiced इंग्लैण्ड 's क्षमता to defeat the फ्रेंच.
This foray would prove the प्रारंभ of an obsession लिये Henry, जो invaded again in 1544.
इस समय, हेनरी 's forces captured the important city of Boulogne, लकिन again the Holy Roman Emperor, Charles v, supported Henry only as long as he needed to और England, strained by the विशाल लागत of the war, ransomed the city back लिये peace.
उसके contemporaries considered हेनरी in उसके प्रधान to be an आकर्षक, educated and संपन्नता king, और he रै महरूम वर्णित as `` one of the सबसे charismatic rulers to बैठना on the अंग्रेज़ी सिंहासन ''.
besides सत्ताधारी साथ निरपेक्ष शक्ति, he also engaged खुद as an author और composer.
His desire to provide England with a male heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity और partly क्युकी he believed a daughter होता be असमर्थ to consolidate the ट्यूडर dynasty and the fragile सलाम that existed following the Wars of the गुलाब – led to the two बाते लिये which Henry is most remembered : his छह marriages और the अंग्रेज़ी reformation.
हेनरी became रुग्ण obese and his health suffered, contributing to his death in 1547.
he is frequently characterised in his बाद जीवन as a lustful, egotistical, harsh, और insecure king.
la reina del सूर ( the महारानी of the दक्षिण ) is a Spanish-language telenovela produced by the United States television network Telemundo, in conjunction with the एंटेना 3 संजाल and rti Producciones.
Based on a अनोखा of the वही नाम by Spanish लेखक arturo Pérez-Reverte, the drama depicts the वृद्धि of टेरेसा मेंडोज़ा ( Kate del कैस्टिलो ), a young स्त्री इससे Mexico who becomes the सबसे powerful drug trafficker in southern स्पेन.
Patricio Wills, the अध्यक्ष of telemundo Television Studios, was the कार्यपालिका producer.
हालांकि la reina del सूर was मनोनीत लिये novela of the Year, पसंदीदा Lead Actress, and बेहतरीन ख़राब लक Video, it won no पुरस्कार.
With a $ 10 million बजट, La reina del सूर थी the most महंगी telenovela ever produced by telemundo.
the कार्यक्रम 's premiere on February 28, 2011, थी the network 's उच्चतम rated premiere लिये a telenovela to तिथि.
The कार्यक्रम अक्सर वर्चस्व इसके time slot, even over अंग्रेज़ी भाषा प्रोग्रामिंग on अन्य major U.S. networks.
La Reina डेल सूर completed its 63 एपीसोड चलाएं on telemundo and इसके 13 episode चलाएं on Antena 3 simultaneously on May 30, 2011.
The फाइनल एपीसोड थी the highest रेटेड broadcast in telemundo 's 19-year history ( 4.2 million viewers ), और ताल all of the English भाषा u.S. television networks to earn the क्रमांक एक slot in the 18-49 adult जनसांख्यिकी.
the कार्यक्रम 's कामयाबी spurred Telemundo to लॉन्च its पहला अभियान to gain the series an Emmy पुरस्कार nomination.
a one-night special featuring several cast सदस्यों aired on May 31, 2011, and marked the Telemundo डेब्यू of विख्यात latina टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व क्रिस्टीना Saralegui.
la Reina डेल सूर is ब्रॉडकास्ट in several अन्य बाज़ार, सहित Serbia, Colombia, चिली, साइप्रस, निकारागुआ, कोस्टा Rica, मैक्सिको, Albania, हंगेरियाई, Slovenia, Croatia, Romania, ( among others ).
an उदाहरण of rack mounted servers
a web hosting service is a type of अंतरजाल होस्टिंग service कि allows individuals और संगठन to make their website accessible via the संसार चौड़ी वेब.
वेब होस्ट are companies कि provide स्पेस on a सर्वर स्वामित्व or leased for use by clients, as well as providing Internet कनेक्टिविटी, typically in a आंकड़ा बीच.
Web होस्ट can भी provide data center स्पेस और connectivity to the अंतरजाल लिये अन्य servers located in उनके आंकड़ा center, पुकारा colocation, भी known as आवास in लैटिन अमेरिका or फ़्रांस.
The पैमाना of वेब होस्टिंग services varies greatly.
The सबसे मौलिक is वेब पेज और small-scale file होस्टिंग, where फाइलें can be अपलोड via File ट्रांसफ़र प्रोटोकॉल ( एफटीपी ) or a Web interface.
the files हैं प्रायः delivered to the वेब `` as is '' or with minimal प्रसंस्करण.
Many अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाताओं ( isps ) प्रस्ताव इस सेवा फ़्री to सदस्य.
individuals और संगठन may भी obtain वेब page होस्टिंग from वैकल्पिक सेवा प्रदाताओं.
निजी web site होस्टिंग is typically फ़्री, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
Business web site होस्टिंग प्रायः रै a उच्चतर expense depending upon the size और प्रकार of the website.
Single पेज होस्टिंग is generally sufficient for personal web pages.
a complex site काल्स लिये a अधिक व्यापक पैकेज कि provides database support और application development platforms ( e.g. PHP, Java, Ruby on rails, coldfusion, or asp.net ).
ये facilities allow ग्राहक to write or install स्क्रिप्ट लिये अनुप्रयोग like forums and सामग्री management.
भी, सुरक्षित sockets Layer ( SSL ) is typically प्रयुक्त for e-commerce.
The मेजबान may भी provide an interface or control फलक for managing the Web server और installing scripts, as खूब as अन्य मौड्यूल और सेवा applications जैसे e-mail.
कुछ होस्ट specialize in निश्चित software or सेवाएं ( e.g. e-commerce ), which हैं commonly used by larger companies that outsource network infrastructure.
Madden एनएफएल ( known as जॉन Madden फ़ुटबॉल पहले 1993 ) is an अमरीकी football वीडियो खेल श्रेणी विकसित by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक Arts Tiburon for ea Sports.
The game series is named after प्रो फ़ुटबॉल Hall of famer John Madden, a well-known पूर्व Super कटोरी –winning कोच of the ओकलैंड Raiders and color commentator.
The series is the best selling EA खेल श्रेणी.
The खेल have consistently महरूम a best विक्रेता, and रै even spawned TV shows जहाँ players compete.
Among the game 's realistic features शामिल sophisticated playbooks and खिलाड़ी आंकडे, और आवाज़ commentary that allows players to सुन the खेल as if it यहूद a real tv broadcast.
The मैडेन NFL श्रेणी has महरूम nicknamed the एनएफएल 's 33rd Franchise.
the series was originally conceived by Electronic कला founder ट्रिप हॉकिन्स, जो then approached Madden in 1984 for his समर्थन और विशेषज्ञता.
Due to Madden 's insistence कि the खेल be as यथार्थवादी as संभावित, the first संस्करण of जॉन मैडेन Football थी नहीं released जबतक 1988.
the second संस्करण of the खेल थी released in 1990, with annual versions since तब.
The series ' नाम was बदला to मैडेन NFL in 1993 after EA acquired the rights to use एनएफएल टीमों and players.
despite Madden 's रिटायरमेंट as a broadcaster in 2009, he continues to lend his name और provide विशेषज्ञता for the खेल.
Cindy ली मिलर Sheehan ( born जुलाई 10, 1957 ) is an American antiwar activist जिनकी बेटे, u.S. Army विशेषज्ञ केसी Sheehan, थी killed by दुश्मन कार्रवाई दौरान the इराकी War.
वो attracted नेशनल और international media attention in August 2005 for her विस्तारित antiwar protest at a makeshift शिविर बाहर President George W. Bush 's Texas ranch —a स्टैंड कि खींचा both passionate support और angry आलोचना.
sheehan भागा unsuccessfully लिये Congress in 2008.
वो is a गायन critic of अध्यक्ष Barack ओबामा 's foreign नीति.
Her memoir, Peace Mom : A Mother 's यात्रा through heartache to Activism, थी published in 2006.
sheehan थी the 2012 vice-presidential nominee of the सलाम और Freedom पार्टी.
wyclef jeanelle Jean ( ; ; born October 17, 1969 ) Wyclef dumped इससे Haiti 's अध्यक्षीय बैलट – TIME, Aug 21, 2010.
`` Before he announced on August 5 that he थी running लिये President of हैती, wyclef जां was स्टिल listing his age as only 37 years old.
But बाद declaring himself a presidential candidate, the Haitian-American-Irish hip-hop स्टार also decided to आइये साफ और confirm कि he थी वाकई 40. '' is a three-time ग्रैमी Award -winning Haitian-American rapper, singer-songwriter, संगीतकार, record producer, और politician.
At आयु नौ, Jean स्थानांतरित to the United States with उसके family और has spent much of उसके life in the देश.
He पहला received कीर्ति as a member of the acclaimed नई Jersey hip hop group the fugees.
On अगस्त 5, 2010, जां दायर लिये candidacy in the 2010 Haitian अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, हालांकि the चुनावी Commission subsequently शासित him अयोग्य to stand as he had नहीं met the आवश्यकता to have been resident in Haiti for five सालो.
Wyclef Jean to appeal against हैती चुनाव ruling – बीबीसी News, अगस्त 22, 2010.
Haiti 's चुनावी commission कहा that Mr Jean was ineligible to stand as the haitian संविधान requires candidates to have जिया in the देश लिये five सालो prior to an चुनाव.
the 40-year-old सिंगर जीवनदान in the US.
जां 's प्रयत्न at earthquake relief, अत्यधिक publicized in 2010 throughout हैती और the United राज्य, were channeled through उसके charitable संगठन, yéle हैती.
The दान, जिससे performed a किस्में of charitable works in Haiti between 2005 and 2010, effectively बंद in 2012.
In विधि, a set-off is a statutory defense to the whole or to a portion of a plaintiff 's अर्जी.
It था no existence अंतर्गत the English आम विधि, होने निर्मित by 2 जियो. II c. 22 लिये the relief of insolvent कर्जदार, हालांकि set-off थी पहचाना in इक्विटी.
ऐसे a defense could be pleaded only in respect of mutual debts of a definite character, and किया नहीं apply to मामले in जिससे damages यहूद claimed, nor to equitable claims or मांगे.
By the rules of the Supreme अदालत ( O. xix. r. 3 ) a प्रतिवादी in an कार्रवाई may set बंद or set up कोई right or claim by रास्ता of counterclaim विरूद्ध the दावा of a अभियोक्ता, and ऐसे set-off or counterclaim has the वही प्रभाव as a बयान of अर्जी in a cross-action.
the legal defense of set-off ( ऊपर ) थी originally introduced to prevent the अन्यायपूर्ण situation whereby a व्यक्ति ( `` Party a '' ) who owed money to another ( `` Party b '' ) could be भेजा to कर्जदार थाना, despite the fact कि पार्टी b also owed धन to पार्टी A.
the law thus allows both parties to defer payment until उनके respective दावा have महरूम सुना in court.
upon निर्णय, दोनो दावा are बुझे और replaced by a सिंगल जाल योग owing ( e.g. If Party a owes पार्टी b 100 और पार्टी b owes Party A 105, the two रकम हैं नियत off और replaced with a सिंगल obligation of 5 इससे पार्टी b to पार्टी a ).
set-off can also be incorporated by contractual agreement so कि, where a पार्टी मूलभूत, the mutual amounts owing are automatically नियत off और extinguished.
in certain jurisdictions ( including the UK ), set-off takes प्लेस automatically upon the insolvency of a कम्पनी.
इस अर्थात् कि, for each party जिससे is दोनो a creditor and debtor of the insolvent company, mutual debts are set-off विरूद्ध each अन्य, और तब either the bankrupt 's creditor can अर्जी the balance in the bankruptcy or the trustee in bankruptcy can पूछो for the संतुलन remaining to be paid, depending on which पक्ष owed the most.
इस has महरूम criticized as an undeclared security ब्याज that violates the principle of pari passu.
The alternative, जहाँ a creditor रै to अदा सब its debts, लकिन प्राप्त तभी a सीमित portion of the leftover moneys कि अन्य unsecured लेनदारों get, मुद्राएँ the danger of 'knock-on ' insolvencies.
the सही to नियत बंद is विशेषकर महत्वपूर्ण when रिपोर्टिंग a बैंको 's विकिरणों to regulatory अधिकारियों.
the situation where a बैंको has to रपट that it रै lent a विशाल योग to a borrower ( and is therefore exposed, because वहीँ is a रिस्क कि the borrower might डिफॉल्ट thereby leading to the loss of the bank 's or its depositors ' धन ) is thus replaced ( जहाँ the bank has लिया security over shares or प्रतिभूति of the borrower ) with an एक्सपोज़र of the money lent minus the मान of the security लिया.
Jennifer joanna एनिस्टन ( born February 11, 1969 ) is an American अभिनेत्री, film director, और निर्माता.
एनिस्टन gained worldwide recognition in the 1990s लिये portraying Rachel ग्रीन on the टेलीविज़न sitcom Friends, a भूमिका जिससे अर्जित her an एमी पुरस्कार, a सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार, and a स्क्रीन Actors गिल्ड पुरस्कार.
Aniston has also enjoyed a कामयाब हॉलीवुड film career.
वो gained नाजुक acclaim for her प्रदर्शन in the independent films She 's the One ( 1996 ), Office Space ( 1999 ), the Good लड़की ( 2002 ) और Friends with धन ( 2006 ).
वो रै had her greatest commercial सफलताओं साथ the films ब्रूस सर्वशक्तिमान ( 2003 ), the break-up ( 2006 ), मार्ले & me ( 2008 ), Just Go साथ it ( 2011 ) and Horrible Bosses ( 2011 ).
Aniston प्राप्त a star on the Hollywood चलना of Fame on फ़रवरी 22, 2012.
A श्वेत बंगाल बाघ at the ह्यूस्टन एक्वेरियम
( video )
A White बाघ at Tobu चिड़ियाघर, in saitama, Japan.
The श्वेत बाघ is a recessive म्यूटेंट of the Bengal tiger, जिससे was reported in the जंगली इससे समय to समय in Assam, बंगाल, Bihar और especially from the former राज्य of Rewa.
conventional PCI ( PCI is an initialism formed from परिधीय Component Interconnect, part of the PCI लोकल Bus standard and often shortened to बस PCI ) is a लोकल computer bus for attaching hardware डिवाइस in a कंप्यूटर.
The पीसीआई bus supports the कृत्यों found on a processor bus, लकिन in a मानकीकृत format that is independent of any particular प्रोसेसर.
डिवाइस कनेक्ट to the bus appear to the प्रोसेसर to be connected सीधे to the प्रोसेसर बस, और are assigned addresses in the प्रोसेसर 's पता स्पेस.
संलग्न डिवाइस can लो either the रूप of an integrated circuit fitted onto the मदरबोर्ड itself, called a planar यंत्र in the पीसीआई specification, or an expansion card कि fits into a slot.
The पीसीआई लोकल बस was first implemented in IBM pc compatibles, where it विस्थापित the combination of ISA plus one VESA लोकल बस as the bus विन्यास.
it रै subsequently been adopted for other computer प्रकार.
पीसीआई और PCI-X हैं being replaced by PCI एक्स्प्रेस, but, सबसे motherboards हैं still बना साथ one or more PCI स्लॉट, which are sufficient लिये अनेक उपयोग.
The पीसीआई specification कवर the physical size of the बस ( including the size and spacing of the circuit फलक edge विद्युत सम्पर्क ), विद्युत विशेषताएँ, बस timing, और प्रोटोकॉल.
The specification can be खरीदा from the PCI Special ब्याज समूह ( PCI-SIG ).
Typical पीसीआई ताश प्रयुक्त in PCs include : संजाल ताश, ध्वनि cards, modems, अतिरिक्त ports such as usb or सीरियल, tv ट्यूनर ताश and disk controllers.
PCI वीडियो cards replaced isa and vesa cards, until growing bandwidth आवश्यकताएँ outgrew the capabilities of PCI ; the preferred interface लिये video cards became अगप, और then PCI एक्स्प्रेस.
PCI वीडियो ताश remain available for उपयोग साथ बूढ़ा pcs without AGP or PCI Express slots.
अनेक devices previously provided on PCI विस्तार ताश are अभी commonly integrated onto motherboards or available in universal सीरियल bus और पीसीआई Express versions.
Caffeine is a कड़वा, white crystalline xanthine alkaloid that acts as a stimulant drug.
कैफीन is found in varying quantities in the seeds, leaves, और fruit of कुछ plants, जहाँ it अधिनियमों as a natural pesticide कि paralyzes and मारता निश्चित कीट feeding on the plants, as well as बढ़ाना the बदला मेमोरी of pollinators.
It is most commonly खपत by humans in infusions निकाली इससे the बीज of the coffee संयंत्र और the leaves of the tea bush, as well as इससे विभिन्न भोजन और पेय containing products निकला from the कोला nut.
Other स्त्रोत include yerba maté, guarana berries, guayusa, और the yaupon होली.
In humans, caffeine अधिनियमों as a सेंट्रल nervous प्रणाली उत्तेजक, temporarily warding बंद drowsiness और restoring alertness.
it is the संसार 's सबसे widely खपत psychoactive drug, but unlike many अन्य psychoactive substances, it is legal और unregulated in nearly सब भाग of the संसार.
पेय containing caffeine, such as coffee, tea, soft पेय, और energy पेय, enjoy ग्रेट popularity.
in North अमेरिका, 90 % of adults consume कैफीन रोज़.
भाग of the reason कैफीन is वर्गीकृत by the Food और Drug Administration as GRAS ( generally पहचाना as सुरक्षित ) is that विषाक्त doses ( over 10 grams ) are much उच्चतर than typically used doses ( कम than 500 milligrams ).
ordinary consumption can have कम health risks, भी जब carried on लिये सालो – वहीँ may be a modest सुरक्षात्मक प्रभाव विरूद्ध some diseases, including parkinsons बीमारी, और निश्चित प्रकार of कर्कट.
कैफीन can have both positive and negative effects on चिंता disorders.
कुछ लोगों experience नींद disruption if वे consume caffeine, especially दौरान the evening घंटों, but others show छोटी disturbance और the effect of caffeine on नींद is highly परिवर्तनीय.
प्रमाण of a रिस्क to गर्भावस्था is equivocal, लकिन कुछ authorities have concluded that दूरदर्शी सलाह is for गर्भवती women to सीमा consumption to the समतुल्य of two cups of कॉफी प्रति day or कम.
the अमरीकी कॉंग्रेस of Obstetricians and Gynecologists ( acog ) concluded in 2010 that कैफीन consumption is safe up to 200 mg per day in pregnant women.
कैफीन has pressor and mild diuretic प्रभाव जब administered to people जो are नहीं प्रयुक्त to it, but regular users develop a सहिष्णुता to इस प्रभाव, and studies have generally विफल to support the common notion कि ordinary खपत contributes significantly to निर्जलीकरण.
With भारी use, tolerance develops rapidly to autonomic effects such as elevated heart रेट और मांसपेशी twitching, but not to the संज्ञानात्मक or arousal प्रभाव of कैफीन.
The degree to which कैफीन can उपज clinically significant शारीरिक और mental dependence remains a विषय of controversy in the चिकित्सा literature.
a kicktail cruiser
A longboard is a longer रूपांतर of a skateboard.
It is commonly प्रयुक्त for cruising, downhill racing, slalom रेसिंग, sliding, and/or transport.
स्त्रोत outside of Wikipedia दे differing अनुमानs:
the सीआईए 's संसार factbook gives the world population as 7,021,836,029 ( July 2012 est. ) and the वितरण of धर्मों as ईसाई 100 % ( of which Roman Catholic 18.85 %, प्रोटोस्टेंट 8.15 %, Orthodox 4.96 %, anglican 1.26 % ), Muslim 22.74 %, हिन्दू 13.8 %, बौद्ध 6.77 %, Sikh 0.35 %, Jewish 0.22 %, Baha'i 0.11 %, अन्य धर्मों 10.95 %, non-religious 9.66 %, atheists 2.01 %.
( 2010 est. ).
the Coast Ranges of कैलिफ़ोर्निया स्पैन इससे Humboldt काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया south to सांता Barbara काउंटी.
the other three coastal California पहाड़ ranges are the अनुप्रस्थ Ranges, Peninsular Ranges और the klamath Mountains.
physiographically, they are a section of the larger Pacific Border प्रांत, जिससे in turn हैं भाग of the larger प्रशांत Mountain System physiographic प्रभाग.
युनेस्को has included the `` California Coast सीमाएँ जीवमंडल आरक्षित `` in इसके man and the Biosphere कार्यक्रम of संसार Network of Biosphere reserves चूंकि 1983.
वाहनों in use per country from 2001 to 2007.
It shows the significant विकास in bric.
संसार map of passenger गाड़ियाँ प्रति 1000 लोगों
An automobile, autocar, motor car or car is a wheeled motor vehicle used लिये transporting passengers, जिससे also carries इसके अपना engine or मोटर.
Most definitions of the पद specify कि automobiles are designed to run primarily on roads, to have seating for एक to eight लोगों, to typically have चार पहियों, और to be constructed प्रधानतया for the transport of people rather than goods.
The पद motorcar रै also been प्रयुक्त in the context of electrified rail प्रणालियों to denote a car which functions as a छोटी लोकोमोटिव लकिन also provides स्पेस for passengers और baggage.
These locomotive गाड़ियाँ यहूद often प्रयुक्त on suburban रूट by both interurban और intercity railroad systems.
It was अनुमानित in 2010 कि the क्रमांक of automobiles था risen to over 1 अरब vehicles, up इससे the 500 million of 1986.
the numbers हैं increasing rapidly, especially in चीन और इण्डिया.
John fitzgerald `` जोकर '' कैनेडी ( May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963 ), often referred to by his आद्याक्षर jfk, was the 35th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, serving from 1961 जबतक उसके death in 1963.
बाद सैन्य service as कमांडर of the मोटर torpedo नौकाएँ pt-109 और PT-59 during संसार War II in the दक्षिण Pacific, कैनेडी represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional district in the u.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat.
Thereafter, he served in the U.S. Senate इससे 1953 until 1960.
Kennedy defeated वाइस अध्यक्ष और Republican candidate रिचर्ड Nixon in the 1960 u.S. presidential election.
at 43 years of आयु, he is the youngest to have महरूम elected to the दफ्तर, the second-youngest President ( बाद Theodore Roosevelt ), and the पहला person born in the 20th सदी to serve as president.
A कैथोलिक, कैनेडी is the तभी non- Protestant president, and is the only president to have जीती a Pulitzer पुरस्कार.
कार्यक्रम दौरान उसके प्रेसिडेंसी included the Bay of Pigs Invasion, the Cuban मिसाइल संकट, the building of the बर्लिन वॉल, the Space रेस, the african-american Civil Rights गति, और early stages of the वियतनाम युद्ध.
Therein, कैनेडी increased the क्रमांक of सैन्य advisers, खास आपरेशन forces, and helicopters in an effort to curb the spread of साम्यवादी in South ईस्ट एशिया.
the कैनेडी administration adopted the नीति of the रणनीतिक Hamlet कार्यक्रम which थी implemented by the दक्षिण Vietnamese सरकारी.
it शामिल certain मजबूर relocation, गाँव internment, and पृथक्करण of ग्रामीण दक्षिण वियतनामी इससे the northern and दक्षिणी कम्युनिस्ट insurgents.
Kennedy थी assassinated on नवम्बर 22, 1963 in डलास, टेक्सास.
Lee Harvey ओसवाल्ड was चार्ज साथ the crime, लकिन he was shot and killed by जोकर माणिक्य two दिनों बाद, पहले a trial could लो प्लेस.
the FBI और the वारेन Commission officially concluded कि Oswald थी the लोन assassin.
However, the United States हाउस चुनें कमेटी on Assassinations ( hsca ) concluded कि those investigations were flawed and that Kennedy थी संभवतः assassinated as the result of a षड्यंत्र.
However, एबीसी News in उनके investigation, the कैनेडी हत्या : Beyond Conspiracy, confirmed the findings of the Warren आयोग ; having concluded ओसवाल्ड acted अलोन.
कैनेडी 's विवादास्पद विभाग of Defense tfx सेनानी bomber program led to a Congressional investigation कि lasted इससे 1963 to 1970.
चूंकि the 1960s सूचना concerning Kennedy 's निजी जीवन has आइये to light.
Details of कैनेडी 's स्वास्थ्य problems in which he struggled have become बेहतर known, विशेषकर चूंकि the 1990s.
Although initially kept रहस्य इससे the general पब्लिक, reports of Kennedy 's philandering have garnered much press.
Kennedy बाँधने अत्यधिक in public राय दरजा of u.S. presidents.
a siemens mxl आग alarm कंट्रोल panel ( शीर्ष ) and graphic annunciator ( bottom ) for Potomac Hall, at James मैडिसन University.
a सतर्क VM-1 आग सचेतक control unit ( FACU ) / autonomous control ईकाई ( ACU ) with एकीकृत voice निकासी और fire सेनानी टेलीफोन system.
manufactured by Edwards, A utc f & S Company
a Fire Alarm कंट्रोल फलक ( FACP ), or आग सचेतक कंट्रोल Unit ( facu ), is the controlling घटक of a आग सचेतक प्रणाली.
The फलक receives सूचना from environmental sensors designed to detect changes associated साथ fire, monitors उनके operational अखंडता और provides for स्वचालित कंट्रोल of उपकरण, और transmission of सूचना जरुरी to prepare the facility लिये fire आधारित on a predetermined sequence.
the फलक may also सप्लाई electrical उर्जा to operate any संबद्ध सेंसर, कंट्रोल, transmitter, or relay.
There are four मौलिक types of panels : coded panels, conventional panels, addressable panels, and मल्टीप्लेक्स systems.
This is a सूची of the पहला म्यूज़िक videos ब्रॉडकास्ट on MTV 's first दिन, अगस्त 1, 1981.
एमटीवी 's पहला दिन on the air थी rebroadcast on VH1 Classic in 2006 and अपलोड onto youtube in 2010 ( हालांकि only the first चार घंटों were प्रामाणिक ; the बाकी यहूद edited VH1 rebroadcasts ).
भण्डारनायके अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र ( BIA ) ( also known as Katunayake अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport और कोलोन अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport ) is one of the two international airports serving the city of कोलोन, the other is ratmalana International Airport.
mattala Rajapaksa International Airport located in southern नगर of Hambantota is the other international विमानक्षेत्र in Sri Lanka.
Bandaranaike अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport is located in Katunayake, 22 मील ( 35 km ) उत्तर of Colombo.
it is administered by Airport और विमानन Services ( Sri लंका ) Ltd.
It is the hub of श्रीलंकन Airlines, the national वाहक of Sri लंका, और Mihin Lanka, the बजट airline of श्री लंका.
Black Swan is a 2010 अमरीकी मनोवैज्ञानिक thriller and horror फिल्मी निर्देशित by Darren aronofsky and अभिनीत Natalie पोर्टमैन, विंसेंट cassel, और Mila Kunis.
The प्लाट घूमती around a production of Tchaikovsky 's Swan Lake ballet by a prestigious नई York City company.
The production requires a नर्तकी to खेल the निर्दोष and fragile White Swan, लिये जिससे the committed नर्तकी नीना ( Portman ) is a perfect fit, as well as the dark और sensual Black swan, जिससे हैं qualities embodied by the new arrival Lily ( Kunis ).
Nina is अभिभूत by a feeling of immense दबाव जब she finds herself स्पर्धा for the भाग, causing her to खोना उसके tenuous पकड़ on reality और descend into a living nightmare.
aronofsky conceived the premise by connecting उसके viewings of a उत्पादन of swan झील साथ an unrealized screenplay परिचय understudies and the ख़्याल of होने haunted by a दोगुना, similar to the folklore surrounding doppelgängers.
aronofsky cites Fyodor दोस्तोयेव्स्की 's `` the दोगुना `` as another प्रेरणा लिये the film.
the director also considered Black swan a साथी टुकड़ा to उसके 2008 फिल्मी The पहलवान, with दोनो films involving demanding performances for अलग kinds of आर्ट.
He and Portman पहला discussed the प्रोजेक्ट in 2000, और बाद a brief attachment to सार्वभौमिक Studios, ब्लैक Swan थी produced in New यॉर्क City in 2009 by फॉक्स Searchlight तस्वीरें.
Portman and Kunis trained in ballet for several months prior to filming, और notable figures from the बैले world helped साथ फिल्मी उत्पादन to shape the ballet presentation.
The फिल्मी premiered as the खोलने फिल्मी लिये the 67th वेनिस International Film Festival on सितंबर 1, 2010.
It था a सीमित रिलीज in the United राज्य starting December 3, 2010 and खोली nationwide on दिसम्बर 17.
Black Swan प्राप्त critical praise upon इसके release, विशेषकर लिये पोर्टमैन 's performance and Aronofsky 's दिशा, and थी a significant box दफ्तर कामयाबी, grossing $ 329 million worldwide.
the film प्राप्त पाँच Academy पुरस्कार nominations और पोर्टमैन won the बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री award लिये the फिल्मी, as खूब as many अन्य बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री awards in several guilds and त्यौहार, while aronofsky थी मनोनीत for बेहतरीन निदेशक.
In जोड, the film itself received a nomination for Best चित्र.
the world’s first ice-calorimeter, प्रयुक्त in the शीत of 1782-83, by एंटोनी Lavoisier and Pierre-Simon Laplace, to determine the ऊष्मा involved in various रासायनिक परिवर्तन ; calculations which were based on जोसेफ ब्लैक ’s prior डिस्कवरी of अदृश्य heat.
These प्रयोग चिह्नित the foundation of thermochemistry.
a ऊष्मामापी ( इससे लैटिन calor, meaning heat ) is an object प्रयुक्त लिये calorimetry, or the प्रक्रम of measuring the ऊष्मा of रासायनिक reactions or physical परिवर्तन as well as heat capacity.
Differential स्कैनिंग calorimeters, समतापी microcalorimeters, titration calorimeters और त्वरित रेट calorimeters are among the सबसे आम types.
A सरल calorimeter just consists of a thermometer संलग्न to a मेटल संग्राहक full of जल suspended ऊपर a combustion कक्ष.
to ढूँढें the enthalpy change per mole of a substance a in a प्रतिक्रिया between दो substances A and B, the substances are added to a ऊष्मामापी और the आरंभिक और final temperatures ( before the प्रतिक्रिया started and after it रै समाप्त ) are विख्यात.
multiplying the तापमान बदलें by the द्रव्यमान और विशिष्ट heat capacities of the substances देता a मान लिये the energy given off or absorbed दौरान the reaction.
Dividing the उर्जा change by how अनेक औज़ार of A were उपस्थित देता its enthalpy change of reaction.
This method is प्रयुक्त primarily in academic teaching as it describes the theory of कैलोरीमिति.
It does not account लिये the ऊष्मा घाटा through the container or the heat क्षमता of the थर्मामीटर and संग्राहक itself.
in जोड, the object placed अंदर the ऊष्मामापी shows that the objects transferred उनके ऊष्मा to the ऊष्मामापी और into the द्रव, and the heat अवशोषित by the calorimeter और the द्रव is बराबर to the heat दिए बंद by the धातुओं.
A जोड़ी of ग्रीन flip-flops
Flip-flops ( भी पुकारा zōri, thongs, jandals, or a variety of अन्य names throughout the संसार ) are a type of open-toed चन्दन typically worn in कैज़ुअल परिस्थितियों, ऐसे as outside or at the बीच.
They consist of a चपटा sole आयोजित loosely on the foot by a Y-shaped strap that गुजरता between the पहला और दूसरी toes और around either पक्ष of the foot.
वे may भी be आयोजित to the foot साथ a सिंगल strap over the front of the पैर बल्कि than a थोंग.
The नाम `` flip-flop '' originated क्युकी of the ध्वनि that is बना by slapping between the एकमात्र of the पैर and the floor when चलना.
इस स्टाइल of जूते रै been worn by the लोगों of अनेक संस्कृतियों throughout the world, originating as early as the प्राचीन Egyptians in 4,000 b.c.
the आधुनिक flip-flop उतरता इससे the Japanese zōri, which became लोकप्रिय after World War ii जब सैनिको returning to the संयुक्त States brought उन्हें वापस.
वे became लोकप्रिय in casual जमावट during the 1960s, 1990s, and 2000s, और some varieties have भी found उनके way into more औपचारिक attire, despite criticism.
the उपयोग of flip-flops can परिणाम in अनेक pains और चोटों, सहित ankle sprains और broken bones.
Some individuals जो चलना लिये long periods रपट pain in the फीट, ankles, और निम्नतर legs.
The lack of support provided by flip-flops often results in over-pronation चोटों, caused by the पैर घुसते inwards further than सामान्य.
This can सीसे to चपटा फीट और tendonitis.
Other injuries कि may result are due to the जूते 's open-toed प्रकृति, ऐसे as stubbed toes, कटौती, and bruises.
Doctors सुझाएँ खरीदना pricier sandals साथ thick-cushioned सोल्स, as खूब as those कि have a डोरी कि is not कैनवास and कि comes वापस almost to the टखने.
the owners of Hanjin ओसाका, देखी here transiting the पनामा Canal in 2008, declared सामान्य औसत following an विस्फोट in the ship 's इंजन room on.
the law of सामान्य average is a legal principle of maritime law according to which all पार्टियों in a समुद्र venture proportionally share कोई losses resulting from a voluntary sacrifice of part of the ship or cargo to save the पूरे in an emergency.
in the exigencies of जोखिमों faced at समुद्र, क्रू सदस्यों often have अनमोल little समय in which to determine precisely whose कार्गो वे हैं jettisoning.
Thus, to avoid quarrelling that could बर्बाद मूल्यवान time, वहीँ arose the equitable अभ्यास whereby all the व्यापारियों जिनकी cargo landed सकुशल would be पुकारा on to योगदान a portion, based upon a share or percentage, to the merchant or merchants whose goods था been tossed overboard to avert निकट peril.
जबकि सामान्य औसत traces इसके origins in प्राचीन maritime विधि, still it remains भाग of the admiralty विधि of सबसे देशों.
The पहला codification of general औसत was the यॉर्क Antwerp नियम of 1890.
अमरीकी कंपनियाँ स्वीकृत it in 1949.
General average requires three तत्व which हैं clearly stated by Mr. इंसाफ grier in बर्नार्ड v. आदमs:
`` 1st.
a common danger : a खतरे in जिससे पोत, कार्गो और क्रू सब participate ; a danger निकट और apparently 'inevitable, ' except by voluntarily रूष्ट the loss of a portion of the पूरे to save the शेष. ''
`` 2nd. वहीँ जरूर be a voluntary jettison, jactus, or ढलाई away, of some portion of the joint चिंता for the purpose of avoiding this निकट peril, periculi imminentis evitandi causa, or, in अन्य words, a transfer of the peril इससे the whole to a particular portion of the whole. ''
`` 3rd.
This attempt to avoid the निकट आम peril must be कामयाब ''.
Example Polish call for टीकाकरण विरूद्ध डिप्थीरिया and टेटनस.
a vaccination अनुसूची is a series of vaccinations, including the समय of all doses, which may be either recommended or अनिवार्य, depending on the देश of residence.
A टीका is an antigenic तैयारी used to produce क्रियाशील प्रतिरक्षण to a बीमारी, in अनुक्रम to prevent or reduce the प्रभाव of infection by any natural or `` wild '' pathogen.
Many vaccines require अनेक doses for अधिकतम effectiveness, either to उपज sufficient आरंभिक immune जवाब or to boost जवाब कि fades over time.
लिये उदाहरण, tetanus vaccine boosters are प्रायः अनुशंसित प्रत्येक 10 years.
टीका schedules हैं developed by governmental agencies or physicians groups to achieve अधिकतम प्रभावकारिता using required and अनुशंसित टीके for a मोहल्ले जबकि महती the number of स्वास्थ्य परवाह system interactions.
Over the पास्ट two दशकों, the अनुशंसित vaccination अनुसूची रै grown rapidly and become अधिक जटिल as many new टीके have been विकसित.
Some vaccines हैं recommended only in certain areas ( countries, subnational क्षेत्रों, or at-risk populations ) where a disease is आम.
For उदाहरण, पीला fever टीकाकरण is on the दिनचर्या vaccine schedule of French guiana, is recommended in certain regions of ब्राज़ील but in the United States is only दिए to travelers heading to देशों with a इतिहास of the disease.
In विकासशील countries, vaccine सुझाव भी take into account the स्तर of स्वास्थ्य परवाह अभिगम, the लागत of vaccines and issues साथ टीका availability और storage.
नमूना vaccinations schedules discussed by the World स्वास्थ्य संगठन show a developed देश using a schedule जिससे extends over the पहला five years of a चाइल्ड 's life and uses टीके जिससे cost over $ 700 including administration costs जबकि a developing country uses a schedule providing टीके in the पहला 9 महीने of life and costing तभी $ 25.
This अंतर is due to the निम्नतर लागत of स्वास्थ्य परवाह, the निम्नतर cost of अनेक vaccines provided to developing राष्ट्र, and कि more महंगी टीके, प्रायः लिये कम common diseases, are not utilized.
in 1900, the smallpox टीका थी the तभी एक administered to children.
by the जल्दी 1950s, children routinely received four vaccines, लिये protection against ( diphtheria, pertussis, टेटनस, polio, और smallpox ), और as many as five shots by two years of age.
चूंकि the mid-1980s, अनेक vaccines have been added to the अनुसूची.
, the US centers for Disease Control और Prevention ( CDC ) now अनुशंसा vaccination विरूद्ध at least fourteen diseases.
By दो सालो of age, U.S. children प्राप्त as many as 24 टीका injections, and might receive up to पाँच shots दौरान one visit to the doctor.
the use of संयोजन vaccine उत्पाद means कि,, the United Kingdom 's immunization कार्यक्रम consists of 10 injections by the आयु of two, बल्कि than 25 if टीकाकरण लिये each disease थी given as a पृथक इंजेक्शन.
Two revellers नृत्य in the गलियों.
The रूप of dancing is called `` wining '' ( winding ) सुनाया wine-ing
a Music Truck entertains the भीड on the streets.
ट्रक are an integral भाग of the गली parade, featuring सजीव performances or deejays
The Trinidad and टोबैगो कार्निवल is an annual इवेंट held on the Monday and Tuesday पहले Ash Wednesday, and is well known लिये participant 's रंगीन costumes and exuberant जश्न.
Carnival in Trinidad और Tobago is the सबसे significant इवेंट on the islands ' सांस्कृतिक और tourism calendar, साथ numerous सांस्कृतिक events running in the lead up to the गली parade on कार्निवल Monday and Tuesday.
It is कहा कि if the आइलैंडर्स are नहीं celebrating it, तब वे हैं preparing for it, जबकि reminiscing about the past year 's festival.
The heart of the musical celebration रै महरूम कैलिप्सो ; recently soca has replaced calypso as the सबसे celebrated प्रकार of music.
Costumes, stickfighting और limbo प्रतियोगिताओं are also important components of the पर्व.
Carnival as it is celebrated in Trinidad और Tobago is also celebrated in cities विश्वव्यापी.
These सहित टोरंटो 's Caribana, मियामी 's मियामी कार्निवल, Houston Carifest, लंदन 's नॉटिंग Hill Carnival as well as नई York City 's Labor Day कार्निवल to name a few.
कार्निवल थी created जब West अफ़्रीकी स्लेव mimicked उनके French owners जो where ज्ञात for उनके lavish costumes balls.
हराम to partake in ये festivities और confined to their quarters, slaves संयुक्त elements from their अपना cultures to their निपुण 's fete.
hence the creation of characters ऐसे as Jab Jab or Jab Molassie ( शैतानों ), Midnight Robbers, imps, lagahroo, soucouyant, la diablesse and Demons.
साथ the abolition of slavery in 1838, freed africans took उनके version of Carnival to the गलियों through expression of ड्रम, riddim sections like tamboo bamboo and as प्रत्येक नई immigrant population डाला Trinidad, कार्निवल evolved into what we जान आज.
the city of शिकागो, इलिनोइस आयोजित a nonpartisan mayoral election on मंगलवार, फ़रवरी 22, 2011.
Incumbent Mayor Richard M. Daley, a member of the Democratic पार्टी who था been in office चूंकि 1989, did नहीं seek a सातवाँ पद as महापौर.
उम्मीदवार needed to collect 12,500 petition signatures by November 22, 2010 to qualify लिये a प्लेस on the ballot.
April 5, 2011 was scheduled to be a runoff election तिथि if no candidate received an निरपेक्ष बहुमत.
Rahm emanuel won the race for महापौर साथ more than 55 % of the vote.
He was उदघाटन on may 16, 2011.
`` उत्तेजित up kicks '' is a song by American इंडी pop बैंड फोस्टर the People.
it was released as the समूह 's debut single in September 2010, और the following साल थी included on उनके EP फोस्टर the People और उनके डेब्यू album Torches.
`` Pumped Up kicks '' became the समूह 's breakthrough hit और was one of the सबसे लोकप्रिय गीतों of 2011.
The सोंग थी written and अंकित by frontman चिह्नित फोस्टर जबकि he was working as a commercial झंकार लेखक.
चिहृ साथ the upbeat musical composition, the lyrics describe the homicidal विचार of a troubled youth.
The track received considerable ध्यान after it was posted ऑनलाइन in 2010 as a फ़्री download, और it helped the समूह garner a multi-album record deal साथ कोलंबिया रिकॉर्ड imprint startime अंतरराष्ट्रीय.
`` उत्तेजित Up Kicks '' proved to be a sleeper hit ; in 2011, after receiving significant airplay on modern चट्टान स्टेशन, the song crossed-over onto contemporary hit radio stations.
The सोंग खर्च eight लगातार सप्ताह at number तीन on the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 chart in the संयुक्त States, बनाना it the first Billboard Alternative गीतों number-one सिंगल to क्रैक the u.S. शीर्ष 5 since किंग्स of Leon 's `` उपयोग somebody `` in 2009.
The सोंग was widely praised by आलोचकों, and it रै been licensed लिये use in a चौड़ी दायरा of लोकप्रिय मीडिया चूंकि इसके रिलीज.
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' received a ग्रैमी Award nomination लिये Best Pop Duo/Group प्रदर्शन.
The State मेला of West वर्जिनिया is an सालाना राज्य मेला लिये वेस्ट Virginia.
It is आयोजित annually in mid-august on the State fairgrounds in fairlea, निकट lewisburg, West वर्जिनिया in the southeastern भाग of the state.
the राज्य Fairgrounds consists of a large खोलें field for carnivals and exhibitions, a horse track, grandstands, और अनेक प्रदर्शनी इमारतें.
Free पार्किंग is provided adjacent to the fairgrounds and, until 2006, free कैंप थी also available in a विशाल field साथ running-water toilets and बौछार, but no hookups.
Campers हैं now charged a छोटी fee.
The श्वेत House, the president 's आधिकारिक residence and center of the प्रशासन
Under the United राज्य Constitution, the President of the संयुक्त राज्य is the head of state and head of सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य.
As chief of the executive branch और head of the संघीय सरकारी as a whole, the प्रेसिडेंसी is the उच्चतम राजनैतिक दफ्तर in the संयुक्त States by influence and मान्यता.
The president is भी the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed शक्तियां.
The president is indirectly निर्वाचित to a four-year पद by an Electoral कॉलेज ( or by the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि चाहिए the Electoral College असफल to पुरस्कार an निरपेक्ष majority of votes to कोई person ).
Since the ratification of the twenty-second amendment to the संयुक्त States Constitution in 1951, no व्यक्ति may be elected अध्यक्ष अधिक than twice, और no एक जो has served more than two सालो of a term to जिससे किसी else थी elected may be elected more than once.
Upon the death, resignation, or हटाना from दफ्तर of an लाज़िम President, the Vice President assumes the office.
The अध्यक्ष must be at least 35 सालो of age और a `` प्राकृतिक born '' citizen of the संयुक्त राज्य.
इस सूची includes तभी those persons जो यहूद sworn into दफ्तर as president following the अनुसमर्थन of the संयुक्त States संविधान, जिससे took प्रभाव on कूच 4, 1789.
लिये American नेताओ before this ratification, see President of the महाद्वीपीय Congress.
The सूची does not include कोई Acting Presidents under the twenty-fifth amendment to the United राज्य Constitution.
There have महरूम 43 लोगों sworn into office, and 44 presidencies, as Grover क्लीवलैंड served two non-consecutive शर्तें और is counted chronologically as दोनो the 22nd and 24th president.
of the individuals निर्वाचित as president, four died in दफ्तर of natural causes ( विलियम Henry हैरिसन, Zachary Taylor, Warren G. Harding, and फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट ), चार were assassinated ( अब्राहम Lincoln, जेम्स A. गारफ़ील्ड, William mckinley, और जॉन F. कैनेडी ) and एक resigned ( रिचर्ड Nixon ).
George वॉशिंगटन, the पहला अध्यक्ष, was inaugurated in 1789 बाद a unanimous vote of the Electoral College.
William हेनरी हैरिसन spent the shortest समय in office with 32 दिनों in 1841, and फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट spent the longest साथ over twelve सालो, but died shortly into उसके चौथी term in 1945.
he is the तभी अध्यक्ष to serve अधिक than दो शर्तें, और a संवैधानिक amendment, affecting राष्ट्रपतियों after हैरी ट्रूमैन, was passed to limit the number of times an individual can be elected president.
एंड्रयू Jackson, the seventh president, थी the पहला to be elected by मेन of all classes in 1828 बाद most कानून barring non-land-owners इससे मतदान यहूद repealed.
Warren हार्डिंग was the first निर्वाचित बाद women gained मतदान अधिकारों in 1920.
History रिकॉर्ड four presidents – John Q एडम्स, Rutherford B. Hayes, Benjamin Harrison और George W. बुश – who खोया the लोकप्रिय vote but assumed office.
John F. कैनेडी has been the तभी अध्यक्ष of रोमन Catholic आस्था, और the वर्तमान president, Barack ओबामा, is the first अध्यक्ष of African descent.
`` Lombardi Trophy '' redirects here.
लिये the पुरस्कार awarded annually to the बेहतरीन college football lineman or linebacker, see लोम्बार्डी पुरस्कार.
the विंस Lombardi ट्रॉफी is the trophy awarded प्रत्येक साल to the जीतना team of the National Football League 's चैंपियनशिप game, the सुपर Bowl.
the ट्रॉफी is named in honor of legendary एनएफएल कोच विंस लोम्बार्डी.
इस is a list of टेबल of the verified oldest people in the संसार in ordinal rank, ऐसे as oldest person or oldest man.
in ये tables, a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if उसके or her अर्जी रै been validated by an अंतरराष्ट्रीय देह that specifically deals in longevity research, such as the जराविद्या Research Group ( GRG ) or गिनीज World रिकॉर्ड.
the longest unambiguously documented human जीवनकाल is कि of jeanne calment of फ़्रांस ( 1875–1997 ), जो died at आयु 122 years, 164 दिनों.
She met Vincent वैन gogh जब she थी 12 or 13.
This led to news मीडिया attention in 1985, after Calment turned 110.
Subsequent investigation मिला documentation for calment 's age, परे any उचित question, in the रिकॉर्ड of उसके देशी नगर, arles, France.
More प्रमाण of Calment 's जीवनकाल has been उत्पादित than for any अन्य supercentenarian ; her मामला serves as an archetype in the methodology for verifying the आयु of the संसार 's oldest लोगों.
the longest undisputed जीवनकाल for पुरूष supercentenarians is कि of jiroemon Kimura, जो फिलहाल lives in जापानी और is आयु as of.
चूंकि the death of 115-year old Dina Manfredini of the संयुक्त राज्य, on 17 December 2012, किमुरा, born 19 April 1897, is the oldest living व्यक्ति in the world जिनकी age can be documented.
He has also been the oldest जीना man चूंकि the death of 114-year old वाल्टर breuning on 14 April 2011.
Since the मौत of 115-year बूढ़ा koto okubo of जापानी on 12 जनवरी 2013, the oldest living स्त्री रै been -year-old Misao Okawa, also from Japan, born on 5 कूच 1898.
the People 's अदालत is an अमरीकी arbitration-based reality court show, फिलहाल presided over by रिटायर्ड Florida राज्य Circuit Court Judge Marilyn Milian, in जिससे छोटी claims विवादों are संभाला.
The People 's Court is the first court दिखाएँ to use बाइंडिंग arbitration, introducing the स्वरूप into the genre in 1981.
the system has महरूम duplicated by most of the show 's successors in the न्यायिक विधा.
Moreover, the People 's अदालत is the first popular, long-running reality in the judicial genre.
it थी preceded only by a few short-lived realities in the विधा ; these short-lived predecessors यहूद only loosely सम्बन्धित to judicial proceedings, except लिये एक : पैरोल ( 1959 ) took फुटेज from real-life courtrooms holding विधिक कार्यवाही.
Prior to the People 's अदालत, the विशाल बहुमत of TV courtroom shows used actors, and बनाई or fictional cases ( as did radio पहले कि ).
among examples of ये types of अदालत shows शामिल प्रसिद्ध Jury Trials and अपना Witness.
The People 's अदालत रै था two चिहृ lives.
the show 's पहला जीवन was presided over solely by पूर्व Los एंजिल्स काउंटी Superior अदालत न्यायधीश जोसेफ Wapner.
उसके tenure lasted from the दिखाएँ 's डेब्यू on September 14, 1981, until May 21, 1993, when the show was रद्द due to low दरजा.
This बाएँ the दिखाएँ with a कुल of 2,484 1⁄2-hour episodes और 12 seasons.
the दिखाएँ was taped in लॉस एंजिल्स दौरान its first life.
बाद होने cancelled, reruns aired जबतक सितंबर 9, 1994.
on September 8, 1997, after being out of production for four years, the लोगों 's Court थी revived for a दूसरी जीवन in first-run अनुप्रयोग as a 60-minute कार्यक्रम.
पूर्व वकील और महापौर of नई यॉर्क ed Koch was चुनी as arbiter, which he maintained लिये 2 सीज़न इससे the 1997–98 season through the 1998–99 ऋतु ( the present जीवन 's 2nd ऋतु और overall show 's 14th ).
By the 1999–00 ऋतु, husband of जूडिथ Sheindlin ( जो presides over न्यायधीश Judy ) and former New York राज्य Supreme अदालत Judge Jerry sheindlin succeeded Koch.
Sheindlin lasted एक और a half सीज़न as he थी replaced towards the end of the 2000–01 ऋतु ( present जीवन 's 4th season और overall show 's 17th ).
शुरूआत in spring 2001, Florida न्यायधीश Marilyn milian took over the लोगों 's अदालत and has presided over the दिखाएँ ever चूंकि.
Once milian completes the 2012–13 ऋतु, वो होगा have served as longest arbiter over the series साथ 12 and a half सीज़न.
As of the present, however, उसके years on the program टाई Wapner at 12 seasons.
In the 2009-10 television ऋतु, The लोगों 's न्यायालयों 2nd/present life outlasted इसके पहला जब it पहुँचे 13 सीज़न.
जबकि the show taped in New यॉर्क City for the पहला 15 सीज़न of its second जीवन, it अभी tapes in stamford, Connecticut as of the 2012-13 season.
On September 3, 2012, The People 's Court 's 2nd/present life डाला इसके 16th ऋतु ( 28th overall ऋतु ).
With 28 कुल सीज़न, The People 's अदालत ranks as the 2nd longest-running courtroom program behind the जारी Divorce Court at 33 सीज़न ( इससे इसके 3 संयुक्त lives ).
Utah ( or ) ( arapaho : wo'tééneihí ' ) is a राज्य in the Western United States.
it became the 45th state admitted to the Union on January 4, 1896.
Utah is the 13th-largest, the 34th-most populous, and the 10th-least-densely आबादी of the 50 United राज्य.
Approximately 80 % of यूटा 's 2,817,222 लोगों सजीव along the Wasatch सामने, centering on Salt Lake City, leaving vast expanses of the राज्य nearly uninhabited and making the population the sixth सबसे urbanized in the U.S. Utah is bordered by Colorado on the east, Wyoming on the northeast, Idaho on the north, एरिज़ोना on the south, और नेवाडा on the वेस्ट.
it भी छू a corner of New मैक्सिको on the southeast.
यूटा is the most religiously homogeneous state in the Union.
Approximately 63 % of utahns are reported to be members of the Church of यीशु मसीह of latter-day Saints or lds ( Mormons ), जिससे greatly influences यूटा संस्कृति and daily जीवन.
The संसार मुख्यालय of the गिरिजाघर of Jesus मसीह of Latter-day संतो ( LDS Church ) is located in Utah 's राज्य पूंजी.
The state is a center of transportation, education, सूचना प्रौद्योगिकी and शोध, government सेवाएं, mining, और a प्रमुख पर्यटक गंतव्य for outdoor मनोरंजन.
According to the u.S. जनसांख्यिकी Bureau 's जनसांख्यिकी estimates, यूटा is the fifth fastest-growing state in the संयुक्त States as of 2012.
st. George, was the fastest–growing metropolitan area in the United States इससे 2000 to 2005.
a 2012 Gallup national सर्वेक्षण मिला यूटा overall to be the `` best state to सजीव in '' आधारित on 13 forward-looking measurements सहित विभिन्न आर्थिक, जीवनशैली, and health-related outlook metrics.
coldwater is a small town in टेट County, Mississippi.
It is in the Memphis महानगर Area.
the population was 1,674 at the 2000 census.
The मुश्किल तालु is a पतला आड़ा bony plate of the कपाल, स्तिथ in the छत of the मुँह.
it spans the arch formed by the अपर teeth.
It is formed by the palatine प्रक्रम of the maxilla और horizontal plate of palatine अस्थि.
It फ़ॉर्म a partition between the nasal passages and the मुँह.
भी on the अग्रवर्ती portion of the roof of the hard palate is the Rugae जिससे are the irregular ridges in the mucous membrane कि help facilitate the गति of खाना backwards towards the pharynx.
इस विभाजन is जारी deeper into the mouth by a मांसल extension पुकारा the soft तालु.
पूरा set of scrolls, constituting the entire Tanakh.
the Tanakh (, or ; भी Tenakh, tenak, tanach ) is a name प्रयुक्त in Judaism for the canon of the Hebrew बाइबल.
The Tanakh is भी known as the Masoretic टेक्स्ट or the miqra.
The नाम is an एक्रोनिम formed from the initial यहूदी अक्षर of the masoretic Text 's तीन परंपरागत subdivisions : the तोरा ( `` शिक्षण '', भी ज्ञात as the पाँच Books of Moses ), Nevi'im ( `` नबियों '' ) and Ketuvim ( `` कृतियाँ '' ) —hence tanakh.
The name `` miqra '' ( מקרא ), अर्थ `` that जिससे is read '', is an वैकल्पिक Hebrew पद लिये the tanakh.
the किताबे of the Tanakh यहूद relayed साथ an accompanying oral tradition passed on by each पीढी, called the Oral Torah.
Sobriety नाका in जर्मनी
Driving अंतर्गत the influence ( DUI ), ड्राइविंग while intoxicated ( dwi ), drunken ड्राइविंग, drunk driving, पेय driving, operating under the influence, drinking और ड्राइविंग, or impaired ड्राइविंग is the crime of driving a motor गाडी साथ blood levels of दारू in excess of a legal limit ( `` Blood Alcohol Content '', or `` bac '' ).
समान regulations cover driving or operating निश्चित types of मशीनरी जबकि प्रभावित by पीने दारू or लेने other drugs, सहित, but नहीं limited to prescription drugs.
इस is a दण्ड ठोकर in सबसे nations.
convictions do नहीं necessarily involve actual driving of the vehicle.
In most jurisdictions a मापन ऐसे as a blood दारू content ( BAC ) in excess of a specific दहलीज level, such as 0.05 % or 0.08 % defines the ठोकर, साथ no need to prove impairment or being under the influence of alcohol.
In कुछ jurisdictions, there is an aggravated श्रेणी of the offense at a higher level e.g. 0.12 %.
in सबसे countries, anyone who is convicted of injuring or हत्या someone while under the influence of दारू or drugs can be heavily fined, as in France, in addition to being दिए a lengthy prison वाक्य.
Some कार्य have their अपना नियम and BAC हद, लिये उदाहरण वाणिज्यिक पायलट, and the Federal रेलरोड प्रशासन in the United राज्य has a 0.04 % सीमा लिये ट्रैन crew.
Some jurisdictions have अनेक levels of bac ; लिये उदाहरण, the राज्य of California रै a 0.08 % BAC limit, which is lowered to 0.04 % if the operator holds a वाणिज्यिक ड्राइवर 's license.
the California BAC सीमा is 0.01 % लिये those younger than 21 सालो of आयु और those on परिवीक्षा for a पिछला DUI conviction.
कुछ विशाल corporations have उनके अपना नियम ; Union प्रशांत Railroad रै उनके अपना BAC सीमा of 0.02 % कि, if violated during a random test or a for-cause परीक्षण — लिये उदाहरण, बाद a ट्रैफ़िक दुर्घटना — can परिणाम in termination of नियुक्ति साथ no chance of भविष्य re-hire.
Many राज्य in the u.S. and provinces in Canada have अपनाया truth in sentencing laws that enforce सख्त guidelines on sentencing, differing इससे previous अभ्यास जहाँ prison time थी घटाया or निलंबित after sentencing had महरूम जारी.
कुछ jurisdictions have न्यायिक guidelines requiring a mandatory न्यूनतम वाक्य.
Penalties लिये dui charges range from expensive fees to forfetiruree of अपना अनुज्ञा plates और in some गंभीर हालातों, your vehicle.
A नशे driving सिम्युलेटर in montréal, कनाडा
the specific दण्ड offense may be पुकारा, depending on the jurisdiction, driving अंतर्गत the influence [ of alcohol or other drugs ] ( DUI ), driving under intense influence ( duii ), driving while intoxicated ( DWI ), ऑपरेटिंग under the influence ( OUI ) ऑपरेटिंग while intoxicated ( OWI ), operating a मोटर vehicle जबकि intoxicated ( omvi ), ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत the combined influence of alcohol and/or other दवाएँ, ड्राइविंग under the influence per se or नशे in चार्ज [ of a गाडी ].
अनेक such कानून लागू भी to motorcycling, बोटिंग, piloting aircraft, उपयोग of motile फार्म equipment such as tractors and combines, riding horses or driving a horse-drawn गाडी, or bicycling, संभवतः with different bac स्तर than driving.
in some jurisdictions there हैं separate charges depending on the गाडी used, ऐसे as bwi ( bicycling while intoxicated ), जिससे may carry a हल्का sentence.
in the संयुक्त राज्य, लोकल law enforcement एजेंसियों made 1,467,300 arrests nationwide लिये driving under the influence of alcohol in 1996, compared to 1.9 million such arrests दौरान the peak year in 1983.
in 1997 an अनुमानित 513,200 dwi अपराधियों यहूद in थाना or कारावास, bas from 593,000 in 1990 and up from 270,100 in 1986.
Officers from us Customs and Border सुरक्षा boarding a ship
विधि प्रवर्तन in the संयुक्त States is एक of तीन major components of the criminal इंसाफ प्रणाली of the United States, साथ साथ न्यायालयों and corrections.
Although there exists an inherent interrelatedness between the different समूह that मेक up the criminal इंसाफ प्रणाली आधारित on their crime deterrence purpose, प्रत्येक component operates independently from एक another.
However, the judiciary is vested with the power to मेक legal determinations regarding the conduct of the other two components.
Apart from maintaining order and service functions, the purpose of policing is the investigation of suspected दण्ड activity and the referral of the results of investigations और of suspected criminals to the न्यायालयों.
Law प्रवर्तन, to varying डिग्री at different स्तर of सरकारी and in different एजेंसियों, is भी commonly charged साथ the responsibilities of deterring criminal कार्यकलाप and of preventing the successful आयोग of अपराधों in प्रगति ; the सेवा और enforcement of warrants, writs and अन्य orders of the courts.
Law प्रवर्तन agencies हैं भी शामिल in providing पहला जवाब to emergencies और other खतरे to public सुरक्षा ; the protection of निश्चित public सुविधाएं and infrastructure ; the maintenance of public order ; the protection of पब्लिक officials ; और the आपरेशन of some correctional facilities ( usually at the local स्तर ).
Elmer Figueroa Arce ( born जून 28, 1968 ), बेहतरीन known अंतर्गत the stage name Chayanne, is a प्यूर्टो Rican Latin पॉप singer और actor.
As a solo कलाकार, Chayanne has released 21 solo एल्बम और sold over 15 लाख albums विश्वव्यापी.
`` संसार War हल्क '' is a comic किताब क्रॉसओवर storyline कि भागा through a स्वः titled limited श्रेणी और विभिन्न अन्य titles प्रकाशित by आश्चर्य कॉमिक्स in 2007, featuring the हल्क.
the श्रेणी consists of five main मुद्दे titled संसार युद्ध Hulk, साथ ग्रेग Pak as writer and John romita, jr. as penciller, and three other limited श्रेणी : World War Hulk : Front Line, संसार War Hulk : गामा Corps, and World युद्ध Hulk : x-men.
It भी ran through several other Marvel comics series.
the प्लाट is the culmination of a श्रेणी of events that began साथ the Hulk being tricked into space by the Illuminati और a जीवन मॉडल decoy of Nick फ़्यूरी, the Hulk 's subsequent निर्वासन seen in Planet Hulk और his निकट वापसी to धरती to तलाश बदला on the illuminati.
Marion मिशेल Morrison ( born marion रॉबर्ट मॉरिसन ; May 26, 1907 – June 11, 1979 ), better ज्ञात by his stage name जॉन वेन, थी an अमरीकी film कर्ता, director and निर्माता.
An अकादमी Award -winner, Wayne थी among the शीर्ष box office draws for तीन दशकों, and was named the all-time top money-making star.
An enduring अमरीकी प्रतीक, he epitomized rugged masculinity और is प्रसिद्ध लिये his demeanor, including his distinctive calm voice, walk, और height.
Wayne थी born in winterset, आयोवा लकिन उसके family relocated to the वृहद Los एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल when he was चार सालो old.
He found work at लोकल फिल्मी studios when he lost उसके football scholarship to USC as a परिणाम of a bodysurfing दुर्घटना.
initially working for the फॉक्स फिल्मी Corporation, he ज़्यादातर appeared in small bit भाग.
उसके first अग्रणी role came in the widescreen एपिक The बिग ट्रेल ( 1930 ), जिससे led to leading भूमिकाएँ in numerous films throughout the 1930s, अनेक of उन्हें in the western विधा.
His करियर rose to further heights in 1939, साथ John घाट 's stagecoach बनाना उसे an instant superstar.
वेन होता go on to star in 142 pictures, primarily typecast in Western films.
Among his बेहतरीन known later films हैं the शांत man ( 1952 ), which फ़ॉलो उसे as an irish-american boxer और his प्रेम affair साथ a fiery spinster played by maureen o'hara ; The Searchers ( 1956 ), in जिससे he plays a Civil War दिग्गज जो seeks आउट उसके abducted भांजी ; Rio ब्रावो ( 1959 ), playing a शेरिफ साथ Dean Martin ; सच्चा grit ( 1969 ), playing a humorous u.s. Marshal जो sets आउट to avenge a man 's death in the भूमिका कि जीती Wayne an Academy Award ; और the Shootist ( 1976 ), उसके final स्क्रीन performance in जिससे he plays an aging gunslinger battling cancer.
Wayne moved to Orange काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया in the 1960s, and was a prominent रिपब्लिकन in Hollywood, supporting anti-communist स्थितियाँ.
he died of stomach cancer in 1979.
in जून 1999, the American Film Institute नामित Wayne 13th among the Greatest Male Screen Legends of सब Time.
गैलीलियो गैलिली ( ; 15 फ़रवरी 1564 – 8 जनवरी 1642 ), थी an Italian physicist, mathematician, astronomer, और philosopher जो played a major role in the वैज्ञानिक Revolution.
उसके achievements शामिल सुधार to the telescope and consequent astronomical observations and support लिये Copernicanism.
गैलीलियो रै महरूम called the `` पिता of modern observational astronomy ``, the `` पिता of आधुनिक भौतिकी ``, the `` पिता of विज्ञान '', and `` the Father of Modern विज्ञान ''.
His योगदान to observational खगोलशास्त्र include the telescopic confirmation of the phases of शुक्र, the discovery of the four largest satellites of बृहस्पति ( named the galilean moons in his इज्ज़त ), and the अवलोकन और analysis of sunspots.
Galileo भी worked in लागू science and technology, inventing an improved military कम्पास and other यंत्र.
Galileo 's championing of heliocentrism was controversial within his lifetime, जब सबसे subscribed to either geocentrism or the tychonic system.
He met with विपक्ष इससे खगोलशास्त्रियों, जो doubted heliocentrism due to the अनुपस्थिति of an observed तारकीय parallax.
the पदार्थ was investigated by the रोमन Inquisition in 1615, और वे concluded कि it could be supported as only a सम्भावना, नहीं an स्थापित fact.
गैलीलियो बाद defended his views in संवाद concerning the दो Chief संसार Systems, जिससे appeared to attack Pope Urban VIII और thus alienated him और the jesuits, who had both supported गैलीलियो up until इस पाइंट.
he थी आजमाया by the inquisition, found `` ओजस्वी suspect of heresy '', मजबूर to recant, और खर्च the rest of his जीवन अंतर्गत house arrest.
It थी while गैलीलियो थी अंतर्गत house arrest that he wrote एक of his finest works, Two नई Sciences, in जिससे he summarised the work he था किया some forty years earlier, on the two sciences अभी पुकारा kinematics और strength of सामग्री.
55 '' lg oled tv showcased at ces 2012
प्रोटोटाइप OLED lighting फलक विकसित by lumiotec
Demonstration of a लचीली oled device
an oled ( सशुल्क light-emitting डायोड ) is a light-emitting डायोड ( led ) in which the emissive electroluminescent layer is a film of सशुल्क यौगिक which emits light in response to an electric current.
इस layer of organic सेमीकंडक्टर is situated between दो electrodes.
generally, at तनिक one of ये electrodes is transparent.
OLEDs are used to बनाएँ digital displays in डिवाइस such as television screens, कंप्यूटर मॉनीटर, पोर्टेबल प्रणालियों such as mobile phones, हैंडहेल्ड games consoles and गुस्से.
a major area of शोध is the development of श्वेत oled devices for उपयोग in solid-state lighting अनुप्रयोग.
There are two प्रमुख परिवारों of oleds : those based on छोटी molecules और those employing polymers.
Adding mobile ions to an oled creates a light-emitting electrochemical कोशिका or LEC, which has a slightly अलग विधि of operation.
oled displays can उपयोग either passive-matrix ( PMOLED ) or active-matrix संबोधित schemes.
Active-matrix oleds ( amoled ) require a thin-film ट्रांजिस्टर backplane to switch प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत pixel on or off, but allow लिये उच्चतर resolution और larger प्रदर्शक आकार.
an oled display works बगैर a backlight.
Thus, it can प्रदर्शक गहन black स्तर and can be thinner और हल्का than a द्रव क्रिस्टल प्रदर्शक ( LCD ).
in low ambient लाइट conditions ऐसे as a dark room an oled स्क्रीन can achieve a उच्चतर कंट्रास्ट ratio than an एलसीडी, whether the LCD uses ठंडा कैथोड fluorescent lamps or LED backlight.
a carton and a glass of eggnog इससे Montreal, Canada, प्रर्दशित its फ्रेंच facade ( English reverse ) और the फ्रेंच term लेत de poule ( वस्तुतः, `` hen 's milk '' )
eggnog, or egg nog, is a sweetened dairy -based पेय traditionally made with मिल्क and/or cream, शुगर, and whipped eggs ( जिससे देता it a frothy texture ).
Brandy, rum, व्हिस्की, bourbon, वोदका, or a संयोजन of liquors are often added.
The समाप्त सेवारत is often garnished with a sprinkling of मैदान दालचीनी or जायफल.
it थी also known as the अंडा milk पंच.
Eggnog is a लोकप्रिय drink throughout the United States और कनाडा, and is प्रायः associated साथ क्रिसमस.
eggnog may be added as a flavoring to food or पेय such as coffee और tea.
eggnog as a कस्टर्ड can भी be used as an ice मलाई आधार.
A pasty (, ), ( sometimes ज्ञात in ब्रिटेन as a Cornish pasty, and in the United राज्य as a pastie or अंग्रेजों pasty ) is a baked पेस्ट्री, a परंपरागत किस्में of जिससे is particularly associated with कॉर्नवॉल, the westernmost काउंटी in England.
It is made by placing uncooked filling typically of meat and vegetables, without मांस in शाकाहारी संस्करण, on a flat pastry circle and folding it to wrap the filling, crimping the किनारे to रूप a seal.
बाद बेकिंग, the result is a raised semicircular comestible.
The traditional cornish pasty, जिससे रै सुरक्षित Geographical Indication ( PGI ) औकात in Europe, is filled with beef, sliced or diced आलू, swede ( भी known as a yellow turnip or rutabaga – referred to in Cornwall as turnip ) और प्याज, seasoned with salt और pepper, and is baked.
आज, the pasty is the food most संबद्ध with कॉर्नवॉल, it is regarded as the national dish, और it accounts for 6 % of the Cornish खाना अर्थव्यवस्था.
pasties with many different fillings हैं बना ; some दुकानें specialise in selling all sorts of pasties.
the origins of the pasty are unclear, हालांकि वहीँ are many सन्दर्भ to them throughout ऐतिहासिक documents and fiction.
The pasty is now popular world-wide due to the spread of cornish miners, और variations can be मिला in Australia, the संयुक्त राज्य, मैक्सिको और elsewhere.
the ( ortho- ) sympathetic बेचैन system ( SNS ) is one of three major parts of the autonomic बेचैन प्रणाली : the अन्य होने the enteric and parasympathetic systems.
Its general कार्रवाई is to mobilize the देह 's बेचैन प्रणाली fight-or-flight जवाब.
It is, however, constantly active at a basic level to maintain homeostasis.
सुरक्षित Digital or ( sd ) is a non-volatile memory card स्वरूप for उपयोग in पोर्टेबल devices, ऐसे as mobile phones, डिजिटल cameras, GPS नेविगेशन डिवाइस, and tablet कंप्यूटर.
the सुरक्षित Digital मानक is maintained by the sd कार्ड Association ( sda ).
sd technologies have महरूम implemented in अधिक than 400 brands across दर्जनों of उत्पाद categories और more than 8,000 मॉडल.
the Secure डिजिटल format शामिल चार card families available in three अलग रूप कारकों.
the चार परिवारों हैं the असली standard-capacity ( SDSC ), the high-capacity ( sdhc ), the eXtended-Capacity ( sdxc ), और the sdio, जिससे combines input/output functions with आंकड़ा भंडार.
The तीन रूप कारकों are the original आकार, the `` मिनी '' आकार, और the `` micro '' आकार ( see उदाहरण ).
There are अनेक combinations of form factors और device families.
electrically passive adapters allow the उपयोग of a छोटी card in a host यंत्र built to hold a larger कार्ड.
मेजबान devices that comply साथ newer versions of the specification provide पिछड़ा संगतता और accept older sd cards, but इस आलेख explains several factors कि can prevent the उपयोग of a newer sd card:
a नए कार्ड may प्रस्ताव greater क्षमता than the host device can हैंडल.
A newer card may use a संचिका प्रणाली the मेजबान यंत्र can not navigate.
उपयोग of an SDIO कार्ड requires the मेजबान device be designed for the input/output functions the कार्ड provides.
The संगठन of the कार्ड थी बदला starting with the sdhc परिवार.
कुछ vendors produced SDSC ताश above 1 gb पहले the sda था मानकीकृत a विधि of doing so.
the sda uses अनेक trademarked logos to enforce अनुपालन with इसके specifications और assure उपयोक्ता of compatibility.
the following is a List of critics of the नई सौदे.
Daniel लॉरेंस Whitney ( born फ़रवरी 17, 1963 ) best known by his stage name and अक्षर लैरी the केबल Guy, is an American stand-up comedian, actor, देश music कलाकार, आवाज़ actor, and former radio व्यक्तित्व.
He was एक of the members of the Blue Collar कॉमेडी Tour, a comedy troupe which शामिल विधेयक Engvall, Ron श्वेत, और Jeff Foxworthy ( साथ whom he रै स्ट्रक्चर on ब्लू Collar TV ).
व्हिटनी रै released seven comedy एल्बम, of जिससे three have been certified gold by the RIAA for शिपमेंट of 500,000 copies.
in जोड, he has स्ट्रक्चर in three ब्लू Collar कॉमेडी Tour-related movies, as well as in the films लैरी the केबल guy : Health इंस्पेक्टर, Delta तमाशा, and witless Protection, as खूब as voicing मेटर in the गाड़ियाँ franchise.
व्हिटनी 's catchphrase : `` Git-R-Done ! '' is भी the title of his book.
on January 26, 2010, the TV चैनल History घोषित that it थी ordering a श्रेणी starring व्हिटनी called Only in America with लैरी the केबल Guy, in जिससे he would explore the देश और immerse खुद in अलग lifestyles, jobs, और शौक.
the पहला एपीसोड of the श्रेणी aired on February 8, 2011.
विटामिन d is a समूह of fat-soluble secosteroids जिम्मेदार for intestinal अवशोषण of calcium and फास्फेट.
In humans, the most महत्वपूर्ण सम्बन्धित compounds of vitamin D हैं vitamin d2 और vitamin d3.
cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3 ) and ergocalciferol ( vitamin d2 ) हैं unique as they constitute कया we know as vitamin D and can be ingested from the diet and/or पूरक.
The body can also synthesize विटामिन d ( from कोलेस्ट्रॉल ) जब सूर्य एक्सपोज़र is पर्याप्त ( hence its उपनाम, the `` सनशाइन विटामिन '' ).
Although vitamin d is commonly पुकारा a विटामिन, it is not दरअसल an अनिवार्य dietary विटामिन in the सख्त भाव, as it can be synthesized in पर्याप्त amounts by सबसे स्तनधारियों exposed to धूप.
( Cats and कुत्तो can नहीं synthesize विटामिन d efficiently और must प्राप्त it in their diet. )
an सशुल्क रासायनिक यौगिक ( or related set of यौगिकों ) is तभी scientifically पुकारा a vitamin जब it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism, and जरूर be obtained इससे their आहार.
however, as साथ अन्य compounds commonly पुकारा विटामिन, vitamin D थी खोजा in an effort to ढूँढें the dietary substance that थी lacking in a बीमारी, namely, rickets, the childhood form of osteomalacia.
additionally, जैसे other compounds called विटामिन, in the developed world विटामिन D is added to staple भोजन, ऐसे as मिल्क, to avoid बीमारी due to कमियां.
उपायों of सीरम levels reflect endogenous synthesis इससे एक्सपोज़र to sunlight as खूब as intake इससे the diet, और it is believed that synthesis may contribute generally to the मेंटेनेंस of adequate serum एकाग्रता.
the प्रमाण indicates कि the संश्लेषण of विटामिन d from सूर्य एक्सपोज़र works in a प्रतिक्रिया लूप that रोकता toxicity but, because of uncertainty परिचय the कर्कट risk from धूप, no सुझाव are जारी by the संस्थान of Medicine, यूएसए, लिये the राशि of sun exposure required to मिलें vitamin D आवश्यकताएँ.
Accordingly, the Dietary सन्दर्भ Intakes for विटामिन D assume कि no synthesis occurs and कि all of a व्यक्ति 's vitamin d is इससे उनके आहार, हालांकि कि होगा rarely occur in practice.
In the जिगर vitamin D is परिवर्तित to calcidiol, which is also known as calcifediol ( INN ), 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, or 25-hydroxyvitamin d—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) d ; और जिससे is the विशिष्ट विटामिन d metabolite कि is measured in serum to determine a व्यक्ति 's vitamin D status.
भाग of the calcidiol is परिवर्तित by the गुर्दे to calcitriol, the biologically क्रियाशील रूप of विटामिन D. Calcitriol circulates as a hormone in the blood, regulating the concentration of calcium और phosphate in the bloodstream और promoting the healthy विकास और remodeling of अस्थि.
calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol बाहर of the गुर्दे लिये अन्य purposes, such as the अप्रसार, differentiation और apoptosis of cells ; calcitriol also affects neuromuscular फलन and सूजन.
परे its उपयोग to prevent osteomalacia or rickets, the प्रमाण for अन्य स्वास्थ्य प्रभाव of विटामिन d supplementation in the general जनसांख्यिकी is असंगत.
the best प्रमाण of benefit is for अस्थि स्वास्थ्य और a घटी in मृत्यु in बुजुर्ग women.
Standard form of the आवधिक तालिका.
The रंगों represent अलग श्रेणी of तत्व समझाया नीचे.
The आवधिक तालिका is a tabular प्रदर्शक of the रासायनिक तत्व, व्यवस्थित on the आधार of their atomic numbers, इलेक्ट्रॉन configurations, और recurring chemical properties.
Elements हैं प्रस्तुत in order of increasing परमाणु क्रमांक ( क्रमांक of protons ).
the standard रूप of तालिका comprises an 18 × 7 grid or main देह of तत्व, positioned ऊपर a smaller double पंक्ति of तत्व.
the table can also be deconstructed into चार rectangular blocks : the s-block to the left, the p-block to the right, the d-block in the मध्य, and the f-block नीचे that.
The पंक्ति of the तालिका are called periods ; the columns of the s-, d-, and p-blocks हैं पुकारा groups, साथ some of these having names ऐसे as the हैलोजन्स or the noble gases.
चूंकि, by परिभाषा, a periodic table incorporates recurring रुझान, कोई such table can be प्रयुक्त to derive relationships between the गुण of the तत्व and भविष्यवाणी the properties of new, yet to be discovered or synthesized, तत्व.
as a result, a periodic table—whether in the मानक रूप or कुछ अन्य variant—provides a उपयोगी फ्रेमवर्क लिये analyzing रासायनिक behavior, and such टेबल हैं widely used in chemistry and अन्य sciences.
Although precursors मौजूद, Dmitri mendeleev is generally credited साथ the publication, in 1869, of the पहला widely पहचाना आवधिक table.
He विकसित उसके तालिका to illustrate periodic रुझान in the गुण of the then-known elements.
mendeleev also पूर्वानुमानित some गुण of then-unknown elements that होता be expected to fill gaps in this तालिका.
सबसे of उसके पूर्वानुमान यहूद proved correct when the तत्व in question यहूद subsequently discovered.
Mendeleev 's आवधिक तालिका has चूंकि been विस्तारित and refined with the discovery or संश्लेषण of further नई elements और the विकास of नई theoretical मॉडल to बताइये chemical बर्ताव.
सब elements from atomic संख्याएँ 1 ( हाइड्रोजन ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have been खोजा or synthesized.
the elements from 1 to 98 ( californium ) have महरूम found to exist naturally, although some हैं मिला तभी in trace amounts और यहूद initially discovered by synthesis in laboratories.
the तत्व बाद 98 have only महरूम synthesized in laboratories.
उत्पादन of elements beyond ununoctium is being धड़ा, with the सवाल of कैसा the periodic तालिका may need to be modified to accommodate कोई ऐसे additions being a पदार्थ of जारी debate.
numerous सिंथेटिक radionuclides of naturally occurring तत्व have भी been उत्पादित in laboratories.
Minimum मजदूरी by u.S. राज्य और u.S. territory ( American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, Virgin आइलैंड्स ), as of Jan. 1, 2013.
in the संयुक्त States, workers हैं generally हकदार to be paid no कम than the statutory minimum wage.
the federal सरकारी mandates a देशभर minimum मजदूरी स्तर of $ 7.25 per घंटा, while some states and municipalities have नियत minimum मजदूरी levels higher than the federal level, साथ the highest राज्य न्यूनतम wage being $ 9.19 per घंटा in Washington as of 2013.
among those paid by the hour in 2012, 1.6 million यहूद reported as earning exactly the prevailing संघीय न्यूनतम wage.
About 2.0 million were reported as कमाई मजदूरी नीचे the न्यूनतम.
Together, these 3.6 million workers with मजदूरी at or नीचे the न्यूनतम बना up 4.7 percent of सब hourly-paid workers.
A चयन of bourbons and Tennessee whiskeys offered at a liquor स्टोर in decatur, जॉर्जिया
evan Williams bourbon whiskey
Bourbon whiskey is a प्रकार of American whiskey – a barrel-aged आसुत स्पिरिट made primarily इससे मकई.
The नाम of the spirit derives from its historical संघ with an क्षेत्रफल ज्ञात as बूढ़ा Bourbon, around what is now bourbon काउंटी, केंटकी ( जिससे, in turn, थी named बाद the फ्रेंच House of Bourbon royal family ).
It रै महरूम उत्पादित चूंकि the 18th century.
जबकि it may be बना anywhere in the संयुक्त राज्य, it is strongly संबद्ध with the American South in सामान्य, और केंटकी in particular.
The Mona लिसा ( La Gioconda or La Joconde ) is a half-length portrait of a स्त्री by the इतालवी artist लियोनार्डो da Vinci, which has been acclaimed as `` the बेहतरीन known, the most visited, the most written about, the most सुंग about, the most parodied work of art in the world. ''
The पेंटिंग, thought to be a पोर्ट्रेट of Lisa Gherardini, the wife of Francesco डेल giocondo, is in आयल on a poplar फलक, and is believed to have been चित्रित between 1503 and 1506.
It was acquired by किंग फ्रांसिस i of फ़्रांस and is अभी the property of the French Republic, on permanent प्रदर्शक at the musée du louvre in Paris since 1797.
The ambiguity of the विषय 's expression, which is frequently वर्णित as enigmatic, the monumentality of the composition, the हल्का modeling of forms and the वायुमंडलीय illusionism यहूद novel qualities that have contributed to the continuing fascination and पढ़ाई of the कार्य.
रॉबर्ट Allen पामर ( 19 January 1949 – 26 सितंबर 2003 ), थी an अंग्रेज़ी singer-songwriter and संगीतकार.
He was ज्ञात लिये his distinctive आवाज़ and the eclectic mix of musical styles on उसके albums, combining आत्मा, jazz, चट्टान, पॉप, रेगी और ब्लूज़.
he found कामयाबी दोनो in उसके सोलो करियर and in the musical अधिनियम The शक्ति Station, और था शीर्ष 10 गीतों in दोनो the UK और the us.
His iconic music videos by टेरेंस डोनोवन लिये the hits `` आदी to Love `` और `` Simply Irresistible `` featured identically वेश dancing महिलाओं साथ पाले चेहरों, अंधेरा eye मेकअप and bright red लिपस्टिक, which resembled the women in the art of पैट्रिक nagel, an कलाकार लोकप्रिय in the 1980s.
Sharp-suited, his भागीदारी in the म्यूज़िक उद्योग commenced in the 1960s, covered five दशकों और शामिल a spell साथ सिरका जो.
पामर प्राप्त a क्रमांक of awards throughout उसके करियर, including two Grammy पुरस्कार for बेहतरीन Male Rock Vocal Performance, an एमटीवी Video म्यूज़िक Award, and was twice nominated for the ब्रिट पुरस्कार for Best अंग्रेजों Male.
computed tomography angiography ( cta ) is a computed tomography technique प्रयुक्त to visualize arterial and venous vessels throughout the देह.
This सीमाएँ इससे धमनियों सेवारत the दिमाग to those bringing रक्त to the lungs, kidneys, arms और टाँगे.
the Champs-Élysées सजा साथ flags for bastille दिन
horseman of the French Republican गार्ड during the 2007 military parade on the Champs-Élysées.
prise de la Bastille by jean-pierre-louis-laurent houel
bastille Day is the name दिए in english-speaking देशों to the French National दिन, which is मनाये on the 14th of July each साल.
In फ़्रांस, it is formally पुकारा la Fête nationale ( ; The National Celebration ) and commonly le quatorze juillet ( ; the fourteenth of July ).
It commemorates the 1790 fête de la Fédération, आयोजित on the पहला वर्षगांठ of the storming of the Bastille on 14 जुलाई 1789 ; the anniversary of the storming of the Bastille fortress-prison was देखी as a प्रतीक of the uprising of the आधुनिक nation, और of the reconciliation of all the फ्रेंच अंदर the संवैधानिक monarchy जिससे preceded the पहला Republic, during the French Revolution.
festivities और official ceremonies are held सब over फ़्रांस.
the oldest and largest नियमित military parade in यूरोपीय is held on the morning of 14 जुलाई, on the Champs-Élysées avenue in पेरिस in front of the अध्यक्ष of the Republic, French officials और विदेशी अतिथि.
The United States of America ( USA or U.S.A. ), commonly पुकारा the United राज्य ( us or U.S. ) or अमेरिका, is a federal republic consisting of पचास राज्य और a federal ज़िला.
the निम्नतर forty-eight संलग्न states और the संघीय ज़िला of वॉशिंगटन, D.C. are in सेंट्रल North अमेरिका between Canada और Mexico.
the राज्य of अलास्का is west of Canada और ईस्ट of Russia across the Bering Strait, और the राज्य of हवाई is in the mid-North प्रशांत.
The देश भी रै पाँच populated और नौ unpopulated territories in the Pacific और the caribbean.
At 3.79 लाख वर्गाकार मील ( 9.83 लाख km2 ) and with around 315 लाख people, the संयुक्त राज्य is the third- or fourth-largest देश by कुल area and the third-largest by both land area और जनसांख्यिकी.
It is एक of the संसार 's most ethnically diverse and multicultural राष्ट्र, the product of large-scale immigration इससे many देशों.
the भूगोल and climate of the u.S. is भी extremely विविध, साथ रेगिस्तान, plains, वनों, and mountains that are home to a चौड़ी variety of species.
paleoindians migrated इससे एशिया to what is now the United States मेनलैंड around 15,000 years ago.
After 1500, Old संसार diseases introduced by Europeans greatly घटाया उनके populations.
European colonization began around 1600 और आए ज़्यादातर from इंग्लैण्ड.
The United राज्य उभरा इससे thirteen British colonies located along the अटलांटिक seaboard.
Disputes between ग्रेट ब्रिटेन and the American colonies led to the अमरीकी Revolution.
on July 4, 1776, delegates इससे the 13 colonies unanimously जारी the घोषणा of Independence, जिससे established the संयुक्त States of America.
the American क्रांतिकारी War, which ended with the recognition of independence of the संयुक्त राज्य इससे the Kingdom of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, थी the first कामयाब युद्ध of independence against a यूरोपीय औपनिवेशिक साम्राज्य.
the वर्तमान Constitution थी अपनाया on सितंबर 17, 1787 ; twenty-seven Amendments have चूंकि महरूम added to the संविधान.
the first टेन amendments, collectively named the Bill of अधिकारों, were ratified in 1791 और guarantee many fundamental सिविल अधिकारों and freedoms.
Driven by the doctrine of manifest नियति, the United राज्य embarked on a vigorous expansion across North अमेरिका throughout the 19th century.
इस शामिल displacing native जनजातियों, acquiring नई territories, और gradually admitting new राज्य.
The American सिविल War ended legalized गुलामी in the संयुक्त States.
By the समाप्त of the उन्नीसवीं सदी, the United States विस्तारित into the प्रशांत समंदर, and its अर्थव्यवस्था was the संसार 's largest.
The Spanish–American War और confirmed the country 's औकात as a global military power.
the संयुक्त States उभरा इससे as a वैश्विक महाशक्ति, the first देश साथ nuclear हथियार, और a permanent member of the संयुक्त Nations सुरक्षा Council.
the समाप्त of the ठंडा War और the dissolution of the सोवियत संघ बाएँ the United राज्य as the एकमात्र superpower.
the संयुक्त राज्य is a विकसित देश and has the world 's largest national अर्थव्यवस्था, with an अनुमानित 2012 जीडीपी of $ 15.6 trillion 19 % of global जीडीपी at purchasing-power पैरिटी, as of 2011.
The प्रति capita GDP of the U.S. थी the world 's sixth-highest as of 2010, although अमेरिका 's wealth असमानता was also क्रमित उच्चतम among OECD countries by the World Bank.
the अर्थव्यवस्था is fueled by an प्रचुरता of natural resources, a well-developed infrastructure, and ऊँची उत्पादकता ; और while its अर्थव्यवस्था is माना post-industrial it continues to be one of the संसार 's largest निर्माताओं.
The देश खाते लिये 39 % of वैश्विक सैन्य spending, और is a अग्रणी आर्थिक, राजनैतिक, और cultural फ़ोर्स in the world, as well as a leader in वैज्ञानिक research और technological नवीनता.
The NCAA मेन 's प्रभाग i Basketball चैंपियनशिप is a single-elimination tournament निभाई each वसन्त in the United राज्य, फिलहाल featuring 68 college basketball टीमों, to determine the national चैंपियनशिप of the major कॉलेज बास्केट टीमों.
the टूर्नामेंट, व्यवस्थित by the National Collegiate Athletic संघ ( ncaa ), थी created दौरान 1939 by the नेशनल Association of बास्केट कोच, और थी the विचार of ओहियो राज्य University कोच हेरोल्ड olsen.
Played ज़्यादातर during March, it is known informally as March दीवानगी or the Big Dance, और has become one of the most प्रसिद्ध सालाना sporting कार्यक्रम in the संयुक्त राज्य.
the NCAA has credited bob Walsh of the सिएटल आयोजन कमेटी लिये starting the कूच दीवानगी celebration दौरान 1984.
the tournament टीमों include champions इससे 31 प्रभाग i conferences ( which प्राप्त automatic बोलियों ), and 37 teams जिससे हैं awarded at-large berths.
These `` at-large '' टीमों हैं चुनी by an NCAA चयन committee, as विस्तृत नीचे.
the 64 टीमों are विभाजित into four regions and organized into a single elimination `` कोष्ठक '', which predetermines, when a team विन्स a खेल, जिससे team it will फेस अगला.
Each टोली is `` seeded '', or ranked, within its region.
After an initial चार खेल between आठ lower-ranked टीमों, the tournament occurs during the कोर्स of तीन weekends, at pre-selected न्यूट्रल साइट around the संयुक्त राज्य.
lower-ranked teams are लगाई in the कोष्ठक विरूद्ध higher ranked teams.
Each वीकेंड eliminates three-fourths of the teams, from a गोलाकार of 64, to a `` मीठी सोलह '', और for the पिछला weekend of the टूर्नामेंट a फाइनल चार ; the फाइनल Four is usually निभाई during the पहला वीकेंड of April.
ये four teams, एक from प्रत्येक region, then compete in एक location for the नेशनल championship.
the tournament has महरूम at तनिक partially televised since 1969.
presently, the games are reported by सीबीएस, tbs, टीएनटी, और trutv by the trade-name NCAA March Madness.
चूंकि 2011, सब खेल हैं available for देखने nationwide.
as television coverage has grown, so too has the tournament 's लोकप्रियता.
Presently, लाखो of अमेरिकी `` भरण आउट a कोष्ठक '', predicting winners of all 67 खेल.
With 11 national शीर्षक, ucla has the रिकार्ड for the सबसे ncaa मेन 's प्रभाग I Basketball championships ; John लकड़ी coached UCLA to 10 of its 11 titles.
The University of Kentucky is second, साथ 8 national शीर्षक, जबकि इंडियाना University and the University of North Carolina हैं tied for तीसरा with 5 national शीर्षक.
ड्यूक University ranks fifth with 4 national शीर्षक.
A sample of synthetic motor oil
सिंथेटिक आयल is a स्नेहक consisting of chemical यौगिकों कि are artificially बना ( synthesized ).
सिंथेटिक lubricants can be manufactured using chemically modified petroleum components बल्कि than पूरे crude आयल, लकिन can also be synthesized from अन्य कच्चा सामग्री.
सिंथेटिक oil is प्रयुक्त as a substitute लिये स्नेहक refined इससे petroleum जब operating in extremes of temperature, because, in general, it provides श्रेष्ठ mechanical और chemical properties than those found in traditional खनिज oils.
वायुयान जेट इंजन, for example, require the उपयोग of सिंथेटिक oils, whereas वायुयान पिस्टन इंजन do नहीं.
Jackass is an American वास्तविकता series, originally दिखाया on MTV from 2000 to 2002, featuring people performing various खतरनाक, crude self-injuring स्टंट and pranks.
the दिखाएँ served as a launchpad for the television and एक्टिंग careers of bam Margera, Steve-O, और also Johnny Knoxville, जो previously had तभी a few minor एक्टिंग roles.
चूंकि 2002, तीन बेवकूफ़ films have महरूम produced and released by MTV कॉरपोरेट sibling Paramount तस्वीरें, continuing the franchise after इसके चलाएं on टेलीविज़न.
the दिखाएँ sparked several spin-offs including चिरायु la Bam, wildboyz, homewrecker, dr. Steve-O और blastazoid.
the दिखाएँ placed # 68 on entertainment साप्ताहिक `` New tv Classics '' सूची.
Roseanne Cherrie barr ( born November 3, 1952 ) is an अमरीकी actress, comedienne, writer, टेलीविज़न producer, director, and 2012 अध्यक्षीय nominee of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया -आधारd Peace और स्वतंत्रता पार्टी.
barr began उसके करियर in stand-up comedy at clubs before gaining कीर्ति लिये her role in the sitcom Roseanne.
The दिखाएँ was a hit और lasted नौ seasons, from 1988 to 1997.
वो जीती दोनो an Emmy and a Golden Globe पुरस्कार for Best अभिनेत्री लिये her work on the दिखाएँ.
Barr था crafted a `` fierce working-class घरेलू goddess '' persona in the eight years preceding उसके sitcom and wanted to do a यथार्थवादी दिखाएँ about a दमदार माँ who was not a शिकार of patriarchal consumerism.
The granddaughter of immigrants from Europe and Russia, Barr was the oldest of चार children in a working-class यहूदी Salt झील City परिवार ; वो was also क्रियाशील in the LDS Church.
In 1974, she शादीशुदा Bill pentland, with जिसको वो had तीन children, पहले divorcing in 1990 और marrying comedian Tom अर्नाल्ड लिये four सालो.
विवाद arose when वो sang `` the star-spangled Banner `` off-key at a 1990 nationally aired baseball game, followed by grabbing her crotch और spitting.
बाद उसके sitcom ended, she शुभारम्भ उसके अपना बात show, the roseanne दिखाएँ, जिससे aired इससे 1998 to 2000.
in 2005, वो returned to stand-up कॉमेडी साथ a world tour.
in 2011, she starred in an unscripted tv दिखाएँ, roseanne 's Nuts, that lasted from जुलाई to सितंबर of कि साल, परिचय her life on a हवाई farm.
In जल्दी 2012, Barr घोषित her उम्मीदवारी लिये the अध्यक्षीय नामांकन of the ग्रीन Party.
barr lost the nomination to Jill स्टीन.
She तब sought the अध्यक्षीय nomination of the सलाम और Freedom पार्टी, जिससे she won on अगस्त 4, 2012.
barr received 61,971 मत in the general election, रखकर छठे overall.
Francesco albani 's 17th सदी Baptism of Christ is a ठेठ चित्रण साथ the आसमान opening and the Holy Spirit descending as a dove.
The baptism of Jesus marks the शुरूआत of उसके public मंत्रालय.
This event is अंकित in the canonical gospels of Matthew, चिह्नित and ल्यूक.
John 's इन्जील does not describe Jesus ' baptism, but John the बैपटिस्ट does गवाही of the अन्य बाते in.
in the नई वसीयत, जॉन the बैपटिस्ट preached the baptism of repentance लिये the remission of sins ( ), और घोषित खुद a forerunner of he कि would baptize `` with the Holy Ghost and साथ fire '' ( ).
In so doing he was preparing the way for यीशु.
यीशु आए to the Jordan River जहाँ he was baptized by जॉन.
The baptismal झाँकी शामिल the आकाश opening, a dove-like descent of the Holy स्पिरिट, और a voice इससे heaven saying, `` इस is my beloved बेटे, in whom I am खूब प्रसन्न. ''
Most modern विद्वानों दृश्य the fact that Jesus was baptized by John as an historical event to which a high degree of certainty can be आबंटित.
Along with the crucifixion of यीशु most विद्वानों view it as one of the दो historically निश्चित तथ्य about उसे, and often उपयोग it as the starting points for the पढ़ाई of the historical Jesus.
the baptism is one of the five major माइलस्टोन in the इन्जील narrative of the जीवन of यीशु, the others होने the Transfiguration, Crucifixion, क़यामत, and Ascension.
Most Christian denominations view the बपतिस्मा of Jesus as an महत्वपूर्ण event और a basis लिये the ईसाई रीति of बपतिस्मा ( देखिए also ).
In पूर्वी christianity, यीशु ' baptism is commemorated on 6 January, the feast of epiphany.
In the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर, the anglican नियाज़, the Lutheran Churches और कुछ other पश्चिमी denominations, it is recalled on a दिन within the following सप्ताह, the feast of the बपतिस्मा of the रब.
in रोमन Catholicism, the baptism of यीशु is one of the Luminous Mysteries sometimes added to the Rosary.
it is a Trinitarian feast in the Eastern Orthodox Churches.
Methylcobalamin ( दिखाया ) is a रूप of vitamin b12.
physically it resembles the other forms of विटामिन b12, occurring as अंधेरा रेड crystals that freely form cherry-colored transparent समाधान in जल.
Vitamin b12, विटामिन B12 or विटामिन B-12, भी पुकारा cobalamin, is a water-soluble विटामिन साथ a key भूमिका in the सामान्य functioning of the brain and बेचैन प्रणाली, and लिये the गठन of blood.
it is एक of the eight B विटामिन.
It is normally involved in the चयापचय of every कोशिका of the इंसान देह, especially affecting DNA संश्लेषण और विनियमन, लकिन also fatty एसिड synthesis and energy production.
neither fungi, plants, nor पशु हैं capable of producing vitamin b12.
Only bacteria and आर्किया have the enzymes required लिये its संश्लेषण, हालांकि many foods हैं a प्राकृतिक source of b12 because of बैक्टीरियल symbiosis.
The विटामिन is the largest और most structurally complicated vitamin और can be उत्पादित industrially only through bacterial fermentation-synthesis.
Vitamin b12 consists of a क्लास of chemically related compounds ( vitamers ), सब of जिससे have vitamin activity.
it contains the biochemically विरल element कोबाल्ट.
Biosynthesis of the basic structure of the विटामिन is accomplished तभी by bacteria ( which प्रायः produce hydroxocobalamin ), लकिन conversion between different फ़ॉर्म of the vitamin can be संपन्नता in the इंसान body.
a आम semi-synthetic रूप of the vitamin, cyanocobalamin, करता not occur in प्रकृति, लकिन is produced from बैक्टीरियल hydroxocobalamin और then प्रयुक्त in अनेक दवाएँ and पूरक, and as a food additive, because of इसके स्थिरता और निम्नतर production cost.
In the body it is परिवर्तित to the इंसान physiological forms methylcobalamin और adenosylcobalamin, leaving पीछे the cyanide, albeit in minimal concentration.
More recently, hydroxocobalamin, methylcobalamin, and adenosylcobalamin can be मिला in more expensive pharmacological products और खाना supplements.
the अतिरिक्त utility of these is currently debated.
विटामिन b12 थी खोजा इससे its संबंध to the बीमारी pernicious रक्ताल्पता, which is an असंक्राम्य disease in which parietal cells of the stomach जिम्मेदार लिये secreting intrinsic factor are destroyed.
Intrinsic factor is crucial लिये the सामान्य absorption of B12, so a lack of मूलभूत फ़ैक्टर, as seen in घातक रक्ताल्पता, कल्याणकारी a विटामिन B12 कमियां.
अनेक अन्य subtler kinds of विटामिन b12 कमियां and उनके biochemical प्रभाव have चूंकि been elucidated.
Full मेटल जैकेट is a 1987 war फिल्मी produced, निर्देशित और co-written by Stanley Kubrick.
It is an अनुकूलन of Gustav Hasford 's 1979 novel the short-timers and सितारों Matthew modine, विंसेंट d'onofrio, R. ली ermey, Arliss हावर्ड, और Adam baldwin.
The फिल्मी फ़ॉलो a platoon of u.S. Marines through their training and the experiences of two of the platoon 's marines in the Tet अप्रिय दौरान the Vietnam युद्ध.
the film 's title refers to the full मेटल jacket bullet प्रयुक्त by infantry riflemen.
the film प्राप्त नाजुक acclaim.
it received an Academy Award नामांकन लिये Best Adapted पटकथा for Kubrick, माइकल Herr and Gustav Hasford.
in 2001, the American Film Institute लगाई Full Metal जैकेट at # 95 in उनके `` AFI 's 100 सालो... 100 thrills `` poll.
TMZ is a हस्ती news जालस्थल that debuted on नवम्बर 8, 2005.
it was a सहयोग between AOL और telepictures Productions, a division of Warner Bros., until Time Warner divested एओएल in 2009.
however, it remained affiliated with एओएल News and रै the एओएल न्यूज logo affixed in the upper right corner.
The name tmz स्टैंड लिये the historic `` स्टुडियो मण्डल `` or 30-mile zone radius from the चौराहे of वेस्ट Beverly boulevard and उत्तर La Cienega Boulevard in Los Angeles.
tmz 's managing editor is Harvey levin, a lawyer-turned-journalist who थी previously a legal विशेषज्ञ लिये the Los एंजिल्स टेलीविज़न station KCBS-TV.
the साईट claims कि it does नहीं अदा for कहानियां or interviews ; however, Levin रै admitted कि tmz does `` sometimes pay sources लिये leads on stories ''.
Levin रै stated that `` everything is शोधकार्य और vetted for सटीकता. ''
a साथी tv series, tmz on TV, debuted on September 10, 2007.
चीख 3 is a 2000 अमरीकी slasher फिल्मी created by केविन विलियमसन, निर्देशित by वेस Craven और written by Ehren क्रूगर, अभिनीत Neve कैम्पबेल, Courteney कॉक्स arquette and David Arquette.
it थी released on फ़रवरी 4, 2000 as the third किश्त in the Scream film series.
the कार्यक्रम of the story are set तीन years बाद those of Scream 2 और follows sidney प्रेस्कॉट ( Campbell ) जो रै गए into self-imposed अलगाव following the events of the पिछला दो films but is drawn to Hollywood बाद a new Ghostface begins हत्या the cast of the film भीतर a film `` Stab 3 ''.
Scream 3 combines the हिंसा of the slasher genre साथ comedy और `` whodunit `` mystery जबकि satirizing the cliché of film trilogies.
Unlike the previous Scream films, there was an increased जोर on comedic elements and the हिंसा and हॉरर was घटाया in response to increased पब्लिक scrutiny about हिंसा in मीडिया following the Columbine ऊँची School नरसंहार.
the फिल्मी was the concluding chapter of the चीख series जबतक it was revived साथ a sequel, चीख 4, in 2011.
विलियमसन provided a five-page रूपरेखा लिये दो sequels to चीख जब auctioning his असली स्क्रिप्ट, hoping to entice bidders with the potential of खरीदे a मताधिकार.
Williamson 's प्रतिज्ञाओं to other प्रोजेक्ट meant he was असमर्थ to develop a complete script लिये चीख 3 and लिखने कर्तव्य यहूद undertaken by Ehren Kruger जो discarded much of विलियमसन 's notes.
craven और मार्को Beltrami लौटे to सीधा और स्कोर the film क्रमशः as they had with the previous two श्रेणी प्रविष्टियां.
Production थी troubled साथ script rewrites, साथ pages sometimes तभी ready on the दिन of filming, और scheduling difficulties साथ the main डाल.
चीख 3 performed दोनो financially और critically बदतर than इसके preceding films, कमाई over $ 161 लाख and with many आलोचकों claiming that the film had become what चीख originally `` spoofed ``.
Despite ऋणात्मक criticism the फिल्मी किया receive praise साथ reviewers कॉलिंग it the perfect समाप्त to the चीख trilogy.
as of 2012, the फिल्मी is currently the क्रमांक 3 highest-grossing slasher-film in उत्तर America, following चीख at क्रमांक 1 और Scream 2 at number 2.
The film 's soundtrack थी well-received, spending चौदह सप्ताह on the बिलबोर्ड 200 and reaching a ऊँची of # 32.
कंधे impingement syndrome, also called painful arc syndrome, supraspinatus सिंड्रोम, तैराक 's कंधे, और thrower 's shoulder, is a clinical syndrome जिससे occurs जब the tendons of the rotator cuff muscles become irritated and inflamed as they pass through the subacromial space, the ड्योढ़ी beneath the acromion.
इस can परिणाम in पीड़ा, कमज़ोरी और loss of गति at the कंधे.
jla was a मासिक comic किताब published by DC कॉमिक्स इससे जनवरी 1997 to अप्रैल 2006 featuring the इंसाफ League.
the colonial इतिहास of the संयुक्त States कवर the इतिहास of European settlements from the प्रारंभ of colonization of America जबतक their incorporation into the United राज्य.
In the लेट 16th century, England, France, Spain और the Netherlands शुभारम्भ प्रमुख colonization programs in eastern उत्तर अमेरिका.
Small जल्दी attempts—such as the अंग्रेज़ी खोया Colony of roanoke —often disappeared ; everywhere the death रेट of the पहला arrivals was बहुत ऊँची.
nevertheless successful colonies यहूद established.
यूरोपीय settlers came इससे a किस्में of सोशल and religious groups.
No aristocrats settled permanently, लकिन a क्रमांक of adventurers, soldiers, किसानो, and tradesmen arrived.
Diversity was an American characteristic as the Dutch of New Netherland, the Swedes and finns of नई Sweden, the English Quakers of पेन्सिलवेनिया, the अंग्रेज़ी puritans of New इंग्लैण्ड, the English settlers of jamestown, and the `` worthy ग़रीब '' of जॉर्जिया, came to the new महाद्वीप and built colonies with distinctive सोशल, religious, political and आर्थिक styles.
occasionally एक colony took control of another ( दौरान wars between their यूरोपीय अभिभावक ).
Only in Nova स्कोटिया ( now भाग of कनाडा ) did the conquerors expel the previous colonists.
बजाय they सब lived side by side in peace.
वहीँ यहूद no प्रमुख civil wars among the 13 colonies, and the two मुख्य armed rebellions ( in Virginia in 1676 और in नई York in 1689–91 ) यहूद short-lived असफलताओं.
Wars between the French and the British—the French and Indian Wars और Father rale 's युद्ध —were recurrent, and शामिल french-support for Wabanaki Confederacy attacks on the frontiers.
by 1760 फ़्रांस was defeated और the अंग्रेजों जब्त its colonies.
the four distinct regions यहूद : नई England, the मध्य Colonies, the chesapeake Bay colonies ( अपर South ) और the Lower South.
Some historians add a fifth region, the Frontier, which थी never separately organized.
By the time European settlers arrived around 1600–1650, the बहुमत of the Native Americans जीना in the eastern संयुक्त States had been decimated by new diseases, introduced to उन्हें decades before by explorers and sailors.
See समयरेखा of Colonial America लिये list of historical कार्यक्रम.
ग्लोरिया Laura वेंडरबिल्ट ( born फ़रवरी 20, 1924 ) is an अमरीकी कलाकार, author, अभिनेत्री, heiress, and socialite most noted as an early developer of पंक्तियां blue jeans.
वो is a सदस्य of the prominent वेंडरबिल्ट परिवार of New यॉर्क and the माँ of CNN 's Anderson Cooper.
यूनानियों ( Romanization of greek| ), officially the Hellenic गणतंत्र ( ' ), is a country in Southeast यूरोपीय.
according to the 2011 जनसांख्यिकी, यूनानियों 's population is around 11 million.
एथेंस is the nation 's capital और largest city, इसके शहरी area भी including piraeus.
यूनानियों is strategically located at the crossroads of Europe, Asia, the Middle East, और Africa, and रै land सीमायें साथ Albania, the Republic of मकदूनिया और Bulgaria to the north, और तुर्कों to the northeast.
the ईजियन समुद्र lies to the east of मेनलैंड यूनानियों, the आयोनियन Sea to the west, और the भूमध्यसागरीय समुद्र to the दक्षिण.
यूनानियों रै the 11th longest तटरेखा in the world at in लंबाई, featuring a विशाल क्रमांक of islands ( approximately 1,400, of which 227 हैं inhabited ), including क्रेट, the Dodecanese, the Cyclades, और the आयोनियन आइलैंड्स among अन्य.
अस्सी प्रतिशत of Greece consists of kyu, of which माउंट Olympus is the highest at.
आधुनिक यूनानियों traces इसके roots to the सभ्यता of Ancient यूनानियों, generally माना the पालना of Western सभ्यता.
As ऐसे, it is the जन्मस्थान of लोकतंत्र, Western दर्शनशास्त्र, the Olympic खेल, पश्चिमी literature and historiography, political science, major scientific and mathematical सिद्धान्त, और Western नाटक, including both tragedy और कॉमेडी.
इस विरासत is partly reflected in the seventeen UNESCO World Heritage साइट located in यूनानियों, रैंकिंग it 7th in यूरोपीय और 13th in the world.
the modern Greek state थी स्थापित in 1830, following the Greek War of स्वतंत्रता.
Greece is a founding सदस्य of the संयुक्त Nations, रै been a सदस्य of what is now the European संघ चूंकि 1981 ( and the eurozone since 2001 ), और has महरूम a सदस्य of NATO since 1952.
यूनानियों is a developed country साथ an उन्नत, high-income अर्थव्यवस्था और very high standards of living, सहित the world 's 21st उच्चतम विशेषता of जीवन as of 2010.
यूनानियों 's अर्थव्यवस्था is भी the largest in the Balkans, where Greece is an important regional investor.
A प्रधान meridian is a मध्याह्न, i.e. a लकीर of longitude, at जिससे longitude is पारिभाषित to be 0°.
A प्रधान meridian and इसके विपरीत in a 360°-system, the 180th मध्याह्न ( at 180° longitude ), form a ग्रेट वृत्त.
इस ग्रेट वृत्त divides the sphere, e.g. the धरती, into दो बांटती.
If एक uses दिशानिर्देश of East and West from a defined प्रधान meridian, तब they can be called पूर्वी गोलार्ध and Western गोलार्ध.
gerardus Mercator in उसके Atlas cosmographicae ( 1595 ) uses a prime मध्याह्न somewhere close to 25°w, passing बस to the west of Santa Maria द्वीप in the Atlantic.
His 180th मध्याह्न runs साथ the जलसन्धि of anián ( Bering जलसन्धि )
A prime meridian is ultimately arbitrary, unlike an equator, जिससे is संकल्पित by the अक्ष of rotation—and विभिन्न conventions have been used or advocated in अलग regions और throughout इतिहास.
Minka Dumont Kelly ( born minka Dumont Dufay ; जून 24, 1980 ) is an अमरीकी actress.
She is शायद बेहतरीन known for उसके roles in Charlie 's Angels, Friday रात्रि Lights, and the Roommate.
r.o.b. ( रोबोटिक ऑपरेटिंग दोस्त ), released in जापानी as the, is an accessory लिये the Nintendo entertainment System ( एनईएस ).
it was released in July 1985 in जापानी and later कि साल in North America.
It था a short उत्पाद lifespan, with support for only two games which comprised the `` रोबोट श्रेणी '' ; gyromite and Stack-Up.
R.O.B. was released with the इरादे of portraying the निन्टेंडो Entertainment System as something अनोखा in order to alleviate खुदरा fears following the वीडियो खेल crash of 1983.
r.o.b. थी उपलब्धियाँ in the डीलक्स नियत, a विन्यास लिये the console कि शामिल, among other things, R.O.B. and gyromite.
Stack-Up थी purchased separately and included its own physical खेल pieces.
The Walking स्वतंत्रता हाफ डालर was a silver 50-cent टुकड़ा or हाफ dollar सिक्का जारी by the United States Mint from 1916 to 1947 ; it थी designed by Adolph A. Weinman.
in 1915, the new मिंट निदेशक, Robert W. Woolley, came to मानना कि he थी not only अनुमत but जरूरी by विधि to replace coin designs कि had महरूम in उपयोग लिये 25 सालो.
he इसलिए began the प्रक्रम of replacing the नाई coinage : dimes, quarters और हाफ डॉलर, सब bearing similar डिजाइन by long-time मिंट Engraver चार्ल्स E. Barber, and पहला struck in 1892.
woolley था the आयोग of Fine Arts conduct a competition, as a परिणाम of जिससे weinman was चयनित to design the dime और half डालर.
weinman 's design of Liberty striding towards the Sun लिये the हाफ डालर proved difficult to perfect, और Treasury सचिव William G. mcadoo, जिनकी विभाग included the मिंट, माना having Barber बनाएँ उसके अपना डिज़ाइन.
मिंट officials were कामयाब in getting Weinman 's डिज़ाइन into उत्पादन, although it never struck very well, which may have महरूम a factor in its बदलना by the फ्रैंकलिन हाफ डालर शुरूआत in 1948.
Nevertheless, आर्ट historian कॉर्नेलियस vermeule considered the टुकड़ा to be among the सबसे beautiful us सिक्के.
Since 1986, a परिवर्धन of weinman 's obverse design has been प्रयुक्त for the अमरीकी चांदी Eagle.
The टोयोटा 4runner is a mid-size खेल यूटिलिटी vehicle ( SUV ) उत्पादित by the Japanese निर्माता Toyota and sold throughout the world from 1984 to present.
In Japan it was ज्ञात as the टोयोटा hilux लहरे.
The असली 4Runner थी a कॉम्पैक्ट SUV और छोटी more than a टोयोटा पिकअप truck साथ a fiberglass shell over the bed, लकिन the मॉडल has since undergone significant independent development into a क्रॉस between a कॉम्पैक्ट and a mid-size एसयूवी.
All 4Runners have been निर्मित at Toyota 's tahara संयंत्र in Tahara, aichi, जापानी, or at hino मोटर्स ' hamura, जापानी plant, और in ब्राज़ील.
Its mid-size क्रॉसओवर SUV counterpart is the Toyota Highlander.
This article deals साथ medicine as practiced by प्रशिक्षित पेशेवर इससे प्राचीन टाइम्स to the उपस्थित.
The प्राचीन Egyptians had a प्रणाली of medicine that was very उन्नत लिये इसके time और influenced बाद चिकित्सा traditions.
The उन्होंने और babylonians दोनो introduced the concepts of निदान, prognosis, and चिकित्सा examination.
The Greeks गई भी further, and उन्नत as खूब medical ethics.
the hippocratic Oath, स्टिल लिया by डॉक्टर today, was written in यूनानियों in the 5th सदी BCE.
In the medieval era, surgical practices inherited from the प्राचीन मास्टर्स यहूद improved and तब systematized in Rogerius 's The अभ्यास of सर्जरी.
Universities began व्यवस्थित training of physicians around the सालो 1220 in इटली.
दौरान the पुनर्जागरण, understanding of anatomy improved, and the microscope थी invented.
the रोगाणु theory of disease in the 19th century led to cures for many संक्रामक diseases.
Military doctors उन्नत the विधि of trauma treatment and सर्जरी.
Public स्वास्थ्य measures were developed especially in the 19th century as the rapid growth of शहरों जरूरी व्यवस्थित sanitary measures.
Advanced शोध centers opened in the early 20th सदी, प्रायः connected साथ प्रमुख अस्पताल.
The mid-20th century was characterized by new biological उपचार, such as एंटीबायोटिक.
ये advancements, along with developments in रसायन, आनुवंशिकी, और lab प्रौद्योगिकी ( ऐसे as the x-ray ) led to modern आयुर्विज्ञान.
आयुर्विज्ञान was heavily professionalized in the 20th सदी, और new careers opened to महिलाओं as नर्स ( from the 1870s ) और as physicians ( विशेषकर after 1970 ).
the 21st century is characterized by बहुत उन्नत research involving numerous fields of विज्ञान.
the hippocratic कॉर्पस, is a collection of जल्दी चिकित्सा works इससे प्राचीन Greece strongly associated with the प्राचीन यूनानी चिकित्सक हिपोक्रेटिस और his teachings.
Potassium is a रासायनिक element साथ प्रतीक K ( from neo-latin kalium ) और atomic क्रमांक 19.
elemental potassium is a नरम silvery-white क्षारीय metal that oxidizes rapidly in एयर और is बहुत reactive साथ water, generating sufficient heat to ignite the हाइड्रोजन emitted in the प्रतिक्रिया and burning with a lilac ज्वाला.
क्युकी पोटैशियम और सोडियम are chemically very समान, their लवण यहूद not at first differentiated.
The अस्तित्व of अनेक elements in उनके लवण थी suspected इससे 1702, और this थी सिद्ध in 1807 when potassium और sodium यहूद individually पृथक इससे different salts by electrolysis.
Potassium in nature occurs तभी in ionic लवण.
as such, it is मिला dissolved in seawater ( which is 0.04 % potassium by वज़न ), and is भाग of many minerals.
Most औद्योगिक chemical applications of potassium employ the अपेक्षाकृत ऊँची घुलनशीलता in जल of पोटैशियम compounds, such as पोटैशियम soaps.
पोटैशियम metal has only a few special applications, होने replaced in most chemical reactions साथ सोडियम मेटल.
Potassium ions are जरुरी for the function of सब जीना कोशिकाएं.
Potassium आयन diffusion is a key mechanism in तंत्रिका transmission, and पोटैशियम depletion in animals, सहित humans, results in विभिन्न हृदय डिस्फंक्शन.
Potassium accumulates in plant cells, और यूँ fresh फल और सब्जियां हैं a good dietary source of it.
Conversely, most plants except specialist halophytes are intolerant of salt, और sodium is उपस्थित in them तभी in low विशेषज्ञता.
इस resulted in पोटैशियम first होने पृथक from potash, the ashes of plants, giving the तत्व इसके नाम.
लिये the same कारण, भारी crop production rapidly depletes soils of potassium, and agricultural fertilizers consume 95 % of global potassium रासायनिक उत्पादन.
the Singapore डालर or dollar ( चिह्न : $ ; code : SGD ) is the आधिकारिक currency of सिंगापुर.
It is सामान्यतः abbreviated साथ the डालर चिह्न $, or alternatively S $ to distinguish it from other dollar -denominated currencies.
it is विभाजित into 100 सेंट.
The मौद्रिक प्राधिकार of सिंगापुर और the ब्रुनेई Currency और मौद्रिक फलक स्टिल maintain the ऐतिहासिक exchangeability of उनके दो मुद्राएँ, the singaporean dollar और the ब्रुनेई dollar, respectively.
the dollar is accepted as `` customary tender '' in Brunei according to the करेंसी interchangeability Agreement.
likewise, the ब्रुनेई dollar is customarily स्वीकृत in सिंगापुर
जेम्स Samuel Coleman ( may 12, 1926 – कूच 25, 1995 ) थी an American sociologist, theorist और empirical researcher, based chiefly at the विश्वविद्यालयों of शिकागो.
he was निर्वाचित president of the अमरीकी समाजशास्त्रीय संघ.
Coleman पढ़ाई the sociology of शिक्षा, पब्लिक policy, and was एक of the earliest उपयोक्ता of the term `` सोशल capital ``.
उसके Foundations of सोशल Theory बहकावे समाजशास्त्रीय theory.
His The adolescent समाज ( 1961 ) and `` कोलमैन रपट '' ( समता of Educational अवसर, 1966 ) यहूद two of the most heavily cited books in educational समाजशास्त्र.
the लैंडमार्क कोलमैन Report helped रूपांतरण educational सिद्धान्त, reshape नेशनल शिक्षा policies, और बहकावे पब्लिक और scholarly राय regarding the role of schooling in determining समता और उत्पादकता in the संयुक्त States.
सुपरमैन ( इससे DC कॉमिक्स ) थी the पहला सुपरहीरो created, आर्ट by जिम Lee.
A superhero ( sometimes rendered super-hero or सुपर नायिका ) is a type of stock character possessing `` असाधारण or superhuman powers '' और dedicated to protecting the public.
चूंकि the debut of the prototypical superhero सुपरमैन in 1938, कहानियां of superheroes—ranging from ब्रैड episodic adventures to continuing years-long sagas—have वर्चस्व अमरीकी comic books and crossed over into other मीडिया.
The शब्द itself तिथियाँ to at least 1917.
A मादा सुपरहीरो is sometimes called a superheroine ( also rendered super-heroine or सुपर नायिका ).
`` सुपर नायक '' is a ट्रेडमार्क co-owned by dc Comics and Marvel Comics.
By सबसे परिभाषाएं, characters do नहीं strictly require actual superhuman शक्तियां to be deemed superheroes, हालांकि शर्तें such as costumed crime सेनानी or masked vigilantes are sometimes प्रयुक्त to refer to those such as Batman और Green Arrow बगैर such शक्तियां जो share अन्य common superhero traits.
Such characters यहूद generally referred to as `` mystery men '' in the so-called सुनहरी Age of Comic किताबे to distinguish them इससे characters साथ super-powers.
सामान्यतः, superheroes उपयोग their powers to counter day-to-day अपराधों while भी combating खतरे विरूद्ध मानवता by supervillains, उनके criminal counterparts.
प्रायः, एक of these supervillains will be the सुपरहीरो 's archenemy.
As खूब, some longrunning superheroes, such as Superman, बैटमैन, Spider-Man and Iron man प्रत्येक रै a rogues gallery of enemies.
As well, superheroes sometimes will कॉम्बैट such irregular threats as aliens, magical/ fantasy entities, अमरीकी war enemies such as nazism or साम्यवादी, और godlike or demonic जीव.
the following is a ऐतिहासिक list of actors और प्राथमिक अक्षर भूमिकाएँ which appear on the American साबुन ओपेरा One Life to सजीव.
The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American नाटक film written और directed by फ़्रैंक Darabont और अभिनीत Tim रॉबिन्स और Morgan फ्रीमैन.
Adapted from the स्टीफन किंग novella रीता Hayworth and shawshank Redemption, the film tells the स्टोरी of Andy Dufresne, a बैंकर जो खर्च nearly two decades in shawshank State Prison for the murder of उसके बीवी और her प्रेमी despite उसके claims of innocence.
During उसके समय at the थाना, he befriends a fellow inmate, Ellis Boyd `` रेड '' Redding, and पाता खुद सुरक्षित by the गार्ड बाद the warden begins using him in his धन laundering operation.
Despite a गुनगुने box office रिसेप्शन कि barely recouped इसके बजट, the फिल्मी received favorable reviews from critics, multiple award nominations, and has चूंकि enjoyed a remarkable जीवन on cable टेलीविज़न, VHS, dvd, और blu-ray.
It was शामिल in the American Film Institute 's 100 सालो... 100 फिल्मों 10th Anniversary Edition.
it management is the अनुशासन whereby सब of the technology संसाधन of a firm are managed in accordance with इसके needs और priorities.
These resources may include ठोस investments like कंप्यूटर हार्डवेयर, software, आंकड़ा, संजाल और आंकड़ा केन्द्र सुविधाएं, as खूब as the staffs जो हैं नियुक्त to maintain them.
मैनेजिंग इस जिम्मेदारी within a company entails अनेक of the मौलिक प्रबन्धन functions, like budgeting, स्टॉफ, and organizing and controlling, along साथ अन्य पहलुओं that are unique to प्रौद्योगिकी, जैसे change प्रबन्धन, तन्त्र डिज़ाइन, संजाल नियोजन, तकनीक support etc.
The penitentiary of New मैक्सिको थाना Riot, जिससे took place on फ़रवरी 2 और 3, 1980, in the state 's अधिकतम security prison south of Santa fe, was one of the सबसे violent थाना दंगे in the इतिहास of the American correctional प्रणाली : 33 inmates died and more than 200 inmates यहूद treated लिये injuries.
None of the 12 officers लिया बंधक यहूद killed, but सात were treated लिये चोटों caused by beatings and rapes.
This was the third प्रमुख riot at the NM State Penitentiary, the first occurring on 19 July 1922 और the second on 15 जून 1953.
Author Roger Morris suggests the death टोल may have been higher, as a number of लाशें यहूद incinerated or dismembered during the course of the mayhem.
`` रेड कार्डिनल '' redirects here.
For the plant Erythrina herbacea, देखिए Coral Bean.
the Northern Cardinal ( Cardinalis cardinalis ) is a North American bird in the genus Cardinalis ; it is also known colloquially as the redbird or common cardinal.
It can be found in दक्षिणी कनाडा, through the पूर्वी United राज्य इससे maine to Texas and दक्षिण through मैक्सिको.
It is मिला in woodlands, gardens, shrublands, and swamps.
the Northern कार्डिनल is a mid-sized songbird साथ a देह length of 21 सेंटीमीटर ( 8.3 इंच ).
it has a distinctive crest on the head और a mask on the face which is ब्लैक in the male and धूसर in the मादा.
The male is a हर्षोल्लास red, जबकि the female is a फीकी red-brown shade.
the उत्तरी कार्डिनल is mainly granivorous, लकिन भी feeds on insects और fruit.
The male behaves territorially, marking out उसके territory साथ सोंग.
दौरान प्रेमालाप, the male फ़ीड्स बीज to the मादा beak-to-beak.
a क्लच of three to चार अंडे is laid, और दो to चार चंगुल हैं उत्पादित प्रत्येक year.
it was once prized as a pet, but इसके बिक्री as cage birds is अभी banned in the United राज्य by the Migratory Bird Treaty अधिनियम of 1918.
सतह runoff, भी पुकारा nonpoint सोर्स pollution, इससे a फार्म फ़ील्ड in आयोवा दौरान a बरसात storm.
topsoil as well as फार्म fertilizers and other संभावित pollutants चलाएं off unprotected फार्म fields जब भारी rains occur.
Topsoil is the upper, outermost परत of soil, प्रायः the top to.
It रै the highest concentration of सशुल्क matter और microorganisms and is जहाँ सबसे of the Earth 's biological soil activity occurs.
Musical cryptogram : `` aschbeg '' set in schoenberg 's Sechs kleine klavierstücke, Op. 19, no. 1, m. 5.
Note that the टीप do नहीं come in spelling order but are all सटा ( not separated by other notes ).
Sechs kleine klavierstücke, op. 19 ( or Six Little पियानो Pieces ) is a नियत of टुकड़े for सोलो piano लिखा by the आस्ट्रिया composer Arnold Schoenberg, published in 1913.
McAfee, Inc. ( ) is an अमरीकी global कंप्यूटर security तन्त्र company headquartered in Santa Clara, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, और the संसार 's largest dedicated सुरक्षा प्रौद्योगिकी कम्पनी.
as of February 28, 2011, McAfee is a wholly स्वामित्व subsidiary of Intel.
मैक्एफ़ी 's competitors in the antivirus industry are avira, bitdefender, BullGuard, F-Secure, frisk, kaspersky, Symantec, और ट्रेंड Micro to नाम a few.
Saint रीता of cascia ( Born Margherita Lotti 1381 - may 22, 1457 ) थी an Italian Augustinian नन, विधवा and संत venerated in the रोमन Catholic Church.
Rita was married at an early age.
the marriage lasted for 18 सालो, during जिससे she is remembered लिये her Christian मान as a मॉडल बीवी and माँ who made प्रयत्न to बदलें उसके husband इससे his abusive behavior.
Upon the हत्या of उसके husband by another feuding परिवार, वो sought to dissuade her sons इससे बदला.
वो subsequently joined an augustinian जातियाँ of धार्मिक बहनों, where वो was known for practicing mortification of the flesh, along साथ the apparent efficacy of her प्रार्थनाएं.
St. रीता is venerated due to various चमत्कार attributed to her सिफ़ारिश, and is प्रायः portrayed साथ a bleeding घाव on उसके forehead, which the Roman Catholic गिरिजाघर claims to have महरूम a आंशिक stigmata.
The रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर, अंतर्गत the pontificate of पोप Leo XIII officially canonized रीता on May 24, 1900, while her feast day is celebrated प्रत्येक May 22.
in अनेक pious कैथोलिक countries, रीता is ज्ञात to be a patroness for abused wives and mourning महिलाओं.
North America is a महाद्वीप wholly within the उत्तरी Hemisphere और almost wholly भीतर the पश्चिमी गोलार्ध.
It is also considered a northern उपमहाद्वीप of the Americas.
It is bordered to the north by the Arctic Ocean, to the ईस्ट by the Atlantic समंदर, to the वेस्ट और दक्षिण by the Pacific Ocean, और to the southeast by दक्षिण America और the Caribbean समुद्र.
North अमेरिका कवर an क्षेत्रफल of परिचय 24,709,000 square किलोमीटर ( 9,540,000 square miles ), about 4.8 % of the ग्रह 's surface or परिचय 16.5 % of इसके land क्षेत्रफल.
as of July 2008, इसके जनसांख्यिकी was estimated at nearly 529 लाख लोगों आरपार 23 स्वतंत्र states, representing परिचय 7.5 % of the human population.
उत्तर अमेरिका is the third-largest continent in area, following एशिया और अफ़्रीकी, and the fourth in जनसांख्यिकी after एशिया, अफ़्रीकी, and Europe.
the पहला people to सजीव in उत्तर America यहूद Paleoindians who began to arrive during the last glacial काल by crossing the Bering land सेतु.
वे differentiated into a number of विविध cultures and समुदायों across the continent.
the largest and most advanced pre-columbian civilizations in उत्तर America यहूद the aztecs in what is now मैक्सिको and the Mayans in सेंट्रल America.
European colonists began to arrive starting in the 16th और 17th centuries, wiping आउट विशाल संख्याएँ of the native populations and beginning an era of यूरोपीय dominance.
jermaine lamarr Cole ( born January 28, 1985 ), better known by his stage नाम J. कोल, is an American hip-hop रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार and record निर्माता from Fayetteville, उत्तर Carolina.
In 2009, he became the पहला कलाकार to चिह्न to Jay-Z 's Roc स्वदेश label.
उसके long-awaited डेब्यू album, हकदार कोल World : the Sideline Story, was released on September 27, 2011.
The album debuted at क्रमांक one on the us Billboard 200, शीर्ष R & B Albums and Top Rap एल्बम chart, selling अधिक than 218,000 in इसके पहला week.
He received a nomination लिये बेहतरीन New Artist at the 54th ग्रैमी Awards.
the two main characters of the श्रेणी, ratchet ( right ) and clank ( बाएँ ).
Ratchet & clank is a series of platform video games.
the franchise थी created और developed by insomniac खेल and प्रकाशित by सोनी Computer Entertainment लिये many different PlayStation consoles, ऐसे as PlayStation 2 और प्लेस्टेशन 3 साथ the exclusion of आकार Matters और Secret एजेंट Clank, which were विकसित by ऊँची प्रभाव Games for the PlayStation पोर्टेबल.
प्रत्येक खेल in the श्रेणी रै महरूम released for every कंसोल, as the ip is स्वामित्व by सोनी कंप्यूटर entertainment.
An एनिमेटेड feature film अनुकूलन produced by rainmaker entertainment और Blockade Entertainment is अनुसूचित for a नाट्य release sometime in 2015.
The खेल take place in a विज्ञान fiction सेटिंग और follow the adventures of ratchet ( an animalistic human-like character known as a lombax, who is a मैकेनिक ) and clank ( a diminutive, sentient रोबोट ) as they travel through the universe, छायांकन it from evil forces on a regular आधार.
the श्रेणी is विख्यात for the समावेश of अनेक exotic और अद्वितीय, over the शीर्ष weapons and डिवाइस, a अवधारणा that insomniac खेल भी expanded into their अन्य खेल.
a will or testament is a legal घोषणा by जिससे a व्यक्ति, the testator, names one or more व्यक्तियों to मैनेज his/her estate और provides लिये the ट्रांसफ़र of उसके प्रॉपर्टी at मौत.
लिये the devolution of प्रॉपर्टी not disposed of by होगा, देखिए inheritance और intestacy.
in the strictest sense, a `` will '' रै historically महरूम limited to real property जबकि `` वसीयत '' applies only to dispositions of personal प्रॉपर्टी ( यूँ giving वृद्धि to the popular title of the दस्तावेज़ as `` Last होगा and Testament '' ), हालांकि this भेद is seldom observed आज.
A will may also बनाएँ a testamentary trust that is effective तभी बाद the मौत of the testator.
the 19.9 mw gemasolar सौर plant in स्पेन सुविधाएँ 15 hours of भंडार और can सप्लाई शक्ति 24 hours a day.
Solar उर्जा, radiant light और heat इससे the sun, रै महरूम harnessed by इंसानो since ancient टाइम्स using a दायरा of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar उर्जा technologies शामिल solar हीटिंग, सौर photovoltaics, solar थर्मल electricity, solar architecture and artificial photosynthesis, which can make considerable योगदान to solving some of the सबसे तात्कालिक उर्जा समस्याएं the संसार अभी faces.
सौर technologies हैं broadly characterized as either passive सौर or active सौर depending on the रास्ता वे कैप्चर, convert और वितरित सौर energy.
क्रियाशील सौर techniques शामिल the उपयोग of photovoltaic panels and सौर thermal collectors to दोहन the उर्जा.
passive solar तकनीकों include orienting a building to the Sun, selecting materials साथ favorable thermal द्रव्यमान or light dispersing properties, और designing spaces कि naturally circulate एयर.
In 2011, the International Energy Agency said that `` the विकास of सस्ती, inexhaustible और clean solar energy technologies will have विशाल longer-term benefits.
it होगा increase countries’ energy सुरक्षा through reliance on an indigenous, inexhaustible और ज़्यादातर import-independent संसाधन, enhance स्थिरता, reduce प्रदूषण, निम्नतर the costs of mitigating climate बदलें, और रखना fossil fuel prices निम्नतर than otherwise.
ये लाभ are वैश्विक.
Hence the additional लागत of the incentives लिये जल्दी deployment should be माना learning investments ; they जरूर be wisely खर्च और need to be widely shared ''.
सर थामस अधिक ( ; 7 February 14786 जुलाई 1535 ), ज्ञात to रोमन Catholics as संत थामस More since 1935, थी an अंग्रेज़ी lawyer, सोशल philosopher, लेखक, statesman, and विख्यात पुनर्जागरण humanist.
He was an important पार्षद to Henry viii of इंग्लैण्ड and was Lord Chancellor from October 1529 to 16 May 1532.
he थी canonized by पोप Pius xi in 1935 as one of the early martyrs of the schism that separated the गिरिजाघर of England from रोम in the 16th century.
In 2000, पोप जॉन पॉल ii declared उसे संरक्षक of कैथोलिक statesmen और politicians.
More थी an opponent of the Protestant reformation, in particular of Martin Luther and विलियम टिंडेल.
However, since 1980, he is भी commemorated by the Church of England as a reformation वीरगति.
More coined the शब्द `` यूटोपिया `` – a name he gave to the ideal and imaginary island nation, the political system of जिससे he वर्णित in Utopia, published in 1516.
He opposed the किंग 's separation इससे the रोमन Catholic Church और refused to accept उसे as Supreme सिर of the Church of इंग्लैण्ड, a शीर्षक जिससे had been given by पार्लियामेंट through the अधिनियम of Supremacy of 1534.
he थी imprisoned in 1534 for his refusal to take the शपथ required by the पहला उत्तराधिकार Act, because the act disparaged Papal Authority and Henry’s marriage to कैथरीन of Aragon.
In 1535, he was आजमाया for treason, convicted on perjured testimony, और beheaded.
अधिक also helped to originate the phrase `` grasp at लोभी '' to औसत `` शिद्दत trying even व्यर्थ things '', in उसके संवाद of Comfort Against Tribulation.
Intellectuals and statesmen आरपार Europe were stunned by अधिक 's निष्पादन.
Erasmus saluted उसे as one `` जिनकी आत्मा थी अधिक pure than कोई हिम, whose प्रतिभाशाली थी ऐसे that इंग्लैण्ड never था और never again होगा have its जैसे ''.
वहीँ थी a अधिक विवादास्पद side to अधिक 's life, क्युकी he advocated the persecution and निष्पादन of protestants who refused to recant their faith.
However, the निर्णय of history रै महरूम largely willing to forgive this in लाइट of the times he lived in and उसके martyrdom in the रोमन Catholic कारण.
दो centuries later जोनाथन स्विफ्ट कहा More थी `` the व्यक्ति of the greatest पुण्य this किंगडम ever उत्पादित '', a sentiment with जिससे Samuel Johnson agreed.
इतिहासकार Hugh trevor-roper कहा in 1977 कि अधिक was `` the पहला ग्रेट Englishman whom we feel कि we जान, the सबसे saintly of humanists, the most human of saints, the universal man of हमारी cool उत्तरी renaissance. ''
कप्तान Nemo, भी ज्ञात as प्रिंस dakkar, is a fictional अक्षर invented by the फ्रेंच विज्ञान fiction author जूल्स Verne.
Nemo appears in दो of वर्न 's novels, बीस Thousand लीग अंतर्गत the Sea ( 1870 ) और The Mysterious Island ( 1874 ), और makes a कैमियो appearance in वर्न 's play यात्रा Through the नामुमकिन ( 1882 ).
nemo, एक of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध antiheroes in fiction, is a mysterious figure.
the बेटे of an Indian राजा, he is a scientific प्रतिभाशाली जो roams the depths of the समुद्र in उसके पनडुब्बी, the नॉटिलस, which थी निर्मित on a deserted द्वीप.
nemo tries to प्रोजेक्ट a stern, controlled विश्वास, लकिन he is driven by a प्यास लिये प्रतिशोध और a hatred of imperialism ( विशेषकर the British Empire ).
He is also wracked by remorse over the deaths of his क्रू सदस्यों और even by the मौतों of दुश्मन sailors.
Nemo रै appeared in विभिन्न adaptations of वर्न 's novels, including films, जहाँ he has महरूम portrayed by a क्रमांक of different actors.
he has furthermore been adopted by अन्य authors for inclusion in उनके novels, सबसे notably in Alan Moore 's The लीग of Extraordinary Gentlemen और Philip José किसान 's The Other log of Phileas fogg.
Listed below हैं the प्रमुख League Baseball teams with the बेहतरीन ऋतु won-lost रिकॉर्ड in इतिहास, as संकल्पित by जीतना प्रतिशत (.700 or बेहतर ), न्यूनतम 120 खेल निभाई.
Acoustic coupler मॉडेम
A मॉडेम ( modulator-demodulator ) is a यंत्र कि modulates an एनालॉग carrier सिग्नल to encode डिजिटल information, and भी demodulates such a carrier सिग्नल to decode the transmitted information.
The goal is to उपज a signal कि can be transmitted easily और decoded to reproduce the असली digital आंकड़ा.
Modems can be used over any means of transmitting analog signals, from लाइट emitting diodes to रेडियो.
The most familiar उदाहरण is a voice band मॉडेम that turns the डिजिटल आंकड़ा of a निजी कंप्यूटर into modulated electrical signals in the voice आवृत्ति range of a telephone चैनल.
ये सिग्नल can be transmitted over telephone लाइनों और demodulated by another modem at the receiver side to रिकवर the डिजिटल data.
modems हैं generally classified by the amount of data they can भेजें in a दिए unit of समय, प्रायः expressed in बिट्स प्रति second ( bit/s, or bps ), or bytes प्रति second ( b/s ).
Modems can alternatively be classified by उनके symbol रेट, measured in baud.
The baud unit denotes symbols per दूसरी, or the number of टाइम्स per second the मॉडेम sends a new सिग्नल.
लिये उदाहरण, the ITU v.21 standard used audio frequency shift keying साथ दो possible बारंबारता corresponding to दो पृथक symbols ( or एक बिट per प्रतीक ), to carry 300 बिट्स per दूसरी using 300 baud.
by contrast, the original itu V.22 मानक, which थी समर्थ to transmit और receive चार पृथक symbols ( two bits प्रति symbol ), handled 1,200 bit/s by sending 600 symbols प्रति second ( 600 baud ) using phase शिफ़्ट keying.
The Declaration of Independence is a बयान adopted by the महाद्वीपीय Congress on July 4, 1776, which घोषित that the thirteen अमरीकी colonies, then at युद्ध साथ ग्रेट Britain, regarded themselves as स्वतंत्र राज्य, और no longer a part of the अंग्रेजों Empire.
बजाय वे now formed a new nation—the संयुक्त राज्य of America.
जॉन एडम्स was a leader in pushing लिये independence, which थी unanimously स्वीकृत on जुलाई 2.
a committee था already drafted the औपचारिक घोषणा, to be तैयार जब कॉंग्रेस voted on स्वतंत्रता.
एडम्स persuaded the committee to select Thomas Jefferson to compose the असली draft of the दस्तावेज़, जिससे कॉंग्रेस would संपादन to उपज the फाइनल version.
The घोषणा थी ultimately a औपचारिक explanation of why कॉंग्रेस था voted on जुलाई 2 to घोषित स्वतंत्रता from Great Britain, more than a साल बाद the outbreak of the अमरीकी Revolutionary War.
the national जन्मदिवस, the Independence दिन is celebrated on July 4, although एडम्स wanted जुलाई 2.
बाद ratifying the टेक्स्ट on July 4, Congress issued the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता in अनेक फ़ॉर्म.
It was initially published as the printed Dunlap broadside that was widely वितरित और पढ़ा to the public.
the most प्रसिद्ध संस्करण of the घोषणा, a हस्ताक्षरित नक़ल कि is popularly regarded as the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता, is displayed at the National Archives in Washington, d.c.
Although the wording of the घोषणा थी स्वीकृत on July 4, the date of its signing थी August 2.
The original जुलाई 4 संयुक्त States घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता manuscript थी खोया while all अन्य नक़ल have महरूम निकला इससे this असली दस्तावेज़.
the स्त्रोत और interpretation of the घोषणा have been the विषय of much scholarly inquiry.
the Declaration justified the स्वतंत्रता of the संयुक्त राज्य by listing औपनिवेशिक grievances विरूद्ध किंग George III, और by asserting निश्चित प्राकृतिक and legal rights, including a right of क्रान्ति.
having परोसा its original purpose in announcing independence, the text of the घोषणा was initially उपेक्षित बाद the अमरीकी क्रान्ति.
Since then, it has come to be माना a प्रमुख बयान on human rights, विशेषकर its second sentence:
We hold these सच्चाई to be self-evident, कि all मेन हैं created equal, that they are endowed by their निर्माता with certain unalienable Rights, कि among ये are Life, Liberty और the pursuit of Happiness.
This रै been called `` एक of the best-known sentences in the English भाषा '', containing `` the most potent and consequential words in अमरीकी इतिहास. ''
The passage आए to represent a moral मानक to which the संयुक्त States should strive.
इस दृश्य was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln, जो माना the घोषणा to be the foundation of उसके political philosophy, और argued कि the घोषणा is a statement of सिद्धान्त through जिससे the संयुक्त राज्य Constitution should be interpreted.
It has inspired work for the rights of अधिकारहीन लोगों throughout the world.
the Economy of Greenland can be characterized as small, mixed और vulnerable.
the उपस्थित economy consists of a बिग public सेक्टर and व्यापक foreign व्यापार, which has resulted in an economy with periods of strong विकास, considerable महंगाई, बेरोजगारी problems और extreme dependence on पूंजी inflow from Denmark and उपयोग of बाहर, mainly Danish, skilled labor.
जीडीपी प्रति capita is similar to the average यूरोपीय economies लकिन the अर्थव्यवस्था is critically dependent upon substantial support from the डैनिश government, which supplies परिचय half the revenues of the घर rule सरकारी जो in फेरे employ about 8,000 greenlanders out of a मजदूर force of 40,156 ( jan. 2012 ).
बेरोजगारी nonetheless remains ऊँची, साथ the बाकी of the economy dependent upon demand for exports of shrimp और fish.
हाइड्रोजन is a chemical element साथ प्रतीक H and परमाणु number 1.
साथ an atomic weight of ( for hydrogen-1 ), hydrogen is the lightest तत्व and its monatomic form ( h1 ) is the most abundant chemical substance, constituting roughly 75 % of the Universe 's baryonic mass.
non- remnant stars are mainly composed of हाइड्रोजन in its plasma state.
at standard temperature और दबाव, हाइड्रोजन is a colorless, odorless, tasteless, non-toxic, nonmetallic, अत्यधिक combustible diatomic गैस साथ the molecular formula H2.
सबसे of the हाइड्रोजन on धरती is in अणुओं ऐसे as water and सशुल्क यौगिकों क्युकी हाइड्रोजन readily forms covalent compounds with most non-metallic तत्व.
हाइड्रोजन plays a particularly important role in acid-base chemistry साथ अनेक reactions exchanging protons between soluble अणुओं.
in ionic compounds, it can लो a negative charge ( an anion known as a hydride और written as H− ), or as a positively चार्ज species H+.
The latter cation is written as हालांकि composed of a bare प्रोटॉन, but in reality, hydrogen cations in ionic compounds सदा occur as अधिक complex species.
the सबसे common isotope of hydrogen is protium ( name rarely used, symbol 1h ) with a single proton और no neutrons.
as the सरलतम अणु ज्ञात, the हाइड्रोजन अणु has महरूम of theoretical उपयोग.
लिये उदाहरण, as the only न्यूट्रल अणु with an analytic समाधान to the श्रोडिंगर समीकरण, the पढ़ाई of the energetics और संबंध of the hydrogen अणु निभाई a key भूमिका in the विकास of क्वांटम यांत्रिकी.
Hydrogen गैस थी first artificially produced in the जल्दी 16th century, via the mixing of metals with acids.
in 1766–81, हेनरी कैवेंडिश थी the first to recognize कि hydrogen गैस थी a discrete substance, और that it produces water when burned, a प्रॉपर्टी which बाद दिया it इसके name : in Greek, hydrogen अर्थात् `` water-former ''.
औद्योगिक उत्पादन is mainly इससे the भाप reforming of प्राकृतिक गैस, और less प्रायः from more energy-intensive hydrogen उत्पादन methods जैसे the electrolysis of water.
सबसे हाइड्रोजन is employed निकट इसके उत्पादन साईट, with the दो largest उपयोग being fossil ईंधन प्रसंस्करण ( e.g., hydrocracking ) and अमोनिया उत्पादन, mostly लिये the fertilizer market.
हाइड्रोजन is a concern in metallurgy as it can embrittle many metals, complicating the design of pipelines और storage टैंक.
अजेय is a 2010 अमरीकी action thriller film directed by टोनी स्कॉट, written by चिह्नित Bomback, और अभिनीत डेंज़ल वॉशिंगटन और क्रिस पाइन.
the फिल्मी, loosely आधारित on the real-life csx 8888 incident, tells the story of a runaway freight ट्रैन, and the two men ( Washington and पाइन ) who manage to रोकें it.
it was Scott 's फाइनल विशेषता फिल्मी before his death in 2012.
the फिल्मी थी released in the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा on नवम्बर 12, 2010, and in the संयुक्त किंगडम on नवम्बर 24, 2010.
It प्राप्त mostly अनुकूल reviews इससे फिल्मी आलोचकों ; it garnered a `` certified भैस '' दरजा on Rotten Tomatoes आधारित upon समग्र reviews और a दरजा of `` Generally अनुकूल reviews '' at Metacritic.
the film थी मनोनीत for an अकादमी Award for Best Sound Editing at the 83rd अकादमी Awards, लकिन खोया to inception.
in photography, bracketing is the general तकनीक of लेने several shots of the same विषय using different कैमरा settings.
bracketing is उपयोगी और प्रायः recommended in situations that make it difficult to obtain a संतोषजनक चित्र with a सिंगल शॉट, विशेषकर when a छोटी variation in एक्सपोज़र parameters रै a comparatively विशाल प्रभाव on the resulting image.
Autobracketing is स्वचालित bracketing by using a सेटिंग on the कैमरा to लो several bracketed shots ( in contrast to the photographer altering the settings by hand between प्रत्येक shot ).
Given the time it takes to accomplish अनेक गोलियाँ, it is typically, लकिन not always, used for static विषय.
insulated glazing ( IG ), more commonly ज्ञात as double glazing ( or double-pane, और increasingly ट्रिपल glazing/pane ) हैं double or ट्रिपल कांच खिड़की panes अलग by an एयर or other गैस भर स्पेस to reduce heat transfer आरपार a भाग of the building envelope.
insulated कांच इकाई हैं manufactured with glass in range of thickness from 3 mm to 10 mm or अधिक in special अनुप्रयोग.
Laminated or tempered glass may भी be used as भाग of the निर्माण.
Most units हैं manufactured साथ the same मोटाई of कांच used on दोनो panes but खास applications ऐसे as acoustic क्षीणन or सुरक्षा may require चौड़ी सीमाएँ of thicknesses to be incorporated in the same unit.
a sectioned diagram of a फिक्स्ड insulated चमकीले ईकाई ( IGU ), indicating the क्रमांकन सम्मेलन used in इस article.
सतह # 1 is facing outside, Surface # 2 is the अंदर सतह of the exterior pane, सतह # 3 is the outside surface of the आंतरिक फलक, और सतह # 4 is the अंदर सतह of आंतरिक फलक.
The खिड़की frame is labelled # 5, a spacer is indicated as # 6, seals are shown in रेड ( # 7 ), the internal reveal is on the right hand पक्ष ( # 8 ) और the exterior windowsill on the बाएँ ( # 9 )
To reduce shear effects on the sealed ईकाई ( a major cause of असामयिक विफलता ), manufacturers उपयोग a नियम of अंगूठा that permits a difference of 1 mm between the thickness of the panes of glass प्रयुक्त in the unit और स्टिल maintain the warranty for the unit.
लिये example, a unit may be ordered with a 4 mm pane on the exterior and a 3 mm फलक on the आंतरिक.
These variations हैं अनुमत लिये architectural and cost कारण.
अन्य combinations can be निर्दिष्ट और उत्पादित लकिन the manufacturer may आरक्षित the सही to limit the पद of the वारंटी or refuse to वारंटी the unit altogether.
लिये ease of वर्णन the सतहों of a दोगुना paned ईकाई are नामित according to the following सम्मेलन : Surface # 1 ( facing outside ), Surface # 2 ( inside of बाहर pane ), Surface # 3 ( outside of अंदर pane ) और Surface # 4 ( inside सतह of inside pane ).
applying the corresponding nomenclature for triple paned इकाई results in surfaces # 1 through # 6.
the प्रदर्शन of insulating glazing can be modified through the use of the following:
a typical संस्थापना of insulated glazing खिड़कियाँ साथ uPVC window फ्रेम्स.
सेलेनियम is a chemical element with प्रतीक se और atomic क्रमांक 34.
It is a nonmetal with गुण कि are इंटरमीडिएट between those of इसके आवधिक table column-adjacent chalcogen तत्व गंधक और tellurium.
It rarely occurs in इसके elemental state in प्रकृति, or as pure अयस्क यौगिकों.
सेलेनियम ( Greek σελήνη selene meaning `` चंद्रमा '' ) was खोजा in 1817 by jöns Jacob Berzelius, who विख्यात the similarity of the new तत्व to the previously-known tellurium ( named लिये the धरती ).
सेलेनियम is found impurely in metal sulfide ores, where it partially replaces the sulfur.
commercially, selenium is उत्पादित as a byproduct in the शोधन of these ores, most often दौरान copper production.
Minerals कि हैं pure selenide or selenate compounds हैं ज्ञात, but हैं विरल.
the मुख्य commercial uses लिये सेलेनियम आज are in glassmaking and in pigments.
सेलेनियम is a सेमीकंडक्टर और is used in photocells.
उपयोग in इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स, once महत्वपूर्ण, have been ज़्यादातर supplanted by सिलिकॉन semiconductor डिवाइस.
सेलेनियम continues to be used in a few types of dc power surge protectors and एक प्रकार of fluorescent क्वांटम बिन्दु.
सेलेनियम salts हैं विषाक्त in large amounts, लकिन trace amounts हैं necessary लिये सेल्यूलर फलन in अनेक जीवों, including all पशु.
Selenium is a घटक of the एंटीऑक्सीडेंट एंजाइमों glutathione peroxidase and thioredoxin reductase ( which indirectly reduce certain oxidized molecules in animals and some पौधे ).
it is भी मिला in तीन deiodinase enzymes, जिससे convert one थायराइड हार्मोन to another.
Selenium आवश्यकताएँ in पौधे differ by species, साथ some पौधे requiring relatively विशाल amounts, and others apparently requiring none.
the United राज्य अध्यक्षीय election of 2008 थी the 56th quadrennial presidential election.
It was आयोजित on मंगलवार, नवम्बर 4, 2008.
डेमोक्रेट बराक ओबामा, then the junior सीनेटर इससे इलिनोइस, defeated रिपब्लिकन जॉन McCain, the senior Senator इससे एरिज़ोना.
As the अभियान progressed, the युद्ध in इराकी and outgoing Republican अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. Bush had become increasingly unpopular, and the major-party उम्मीदवार भागा on a मंच of बदलें और सुधार.
घरेलू policy और the economy आखिरकार उभरा as the main विषयवस्तु in the पिछला few महीने of the चुनाव campaign बाद the onset of the worst मंदी चूंकि the 1930s.
Obama होता go on to win a decisive victory over McCain in दोनो the electoral and popular vote.
ओबामा प्राप्त the most votes लिये a अध्यक्षीय candidate in American history, और जीती the लोकप्रिय और electoral vote by the largest margin in 12 सालो, as खूब as the largest प्रतिशत of the popular vote लिये a डेमोक्रेट in nearly a half-century.
इस was the पहला U.S. अध्यक्षीय चुनाव in which an African अमरीकी थी elected, having भी been the पहला in जिससे an अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी won the nomination of either प्रमुख party.
This चुनाव was also notable for being the first time in u.S. history that both प्रमुख पार्टी candidates यहूद बैठे u.s. सीनेटरों, only the third time ( after 1920 and 1960 ) that any बैठे u.s. सीनेटर was elected president, and only the दूसरी समय कि the जीतना President और Vice President ( Obama and बिडेन ) were दोनो बैठे u.s. Senators.
This was also the first election since 1952 in जिससे neither of the प्रमुख parties ' नामांकित थी the incumbent अध्यक्ष or Vice President.
The Sovereign प्रिंस or राजकुमारी of मोनाको is the reigning monarch and सिर of राज्य of the Principality of Monaco.
सब princes or राजकुमारियों have officially लिया the नाम of the हाउस of Grimaldi, लकिन have belonged to विभिन्न other houses ( goyon de matignon, Polignac ) in पुरूष line.
the reigning प्रिंस is अल्बर्ट ii.
Visualization of fragmentation and तब of defragmentation
In the maintenance of file प्रणालियों, defragmentation is a प्रक्रम कि reduces the राशि of fragmentation.
It करता this by physically organizing the contents of the द्रव्यमान भंडार device used to स्टोर files into the smallest number of contiguous regions ( fragments ).
it भी attempts to बनाएँ larger regions of फ़्री स्पेस using compaction to impede the वापसी of fragmentation.
कुछ defragmentation utilities try to keep छोटी फाइलें भीतर a सिंगल directory together, as वे are प्रायः accessed in sequence.
Defragmentation is लाभदायक और relevant to file प्रणालियों on electromechanical disk drives.
The movement of the hard ड्राइव 's read/write heads over अलग क्षेत्रों of the disk जब accessing fragmented files is slower, compared to accessing the संपूर्ण सामग्री of a non-fragmented संचिका sequentially without moving the read/write heads to seek other fragments.
a service-level अनुबंध ( sla ) is a part of a service contract where a सेवा is formally defined.
In practice, the term sla is sometimes used to refer to the contracted डिलीवरी time ( of the service or performance ).
as an example, internet सेवा प्रदाताओं will commonly शामिल सेवा स्तर agreements within the terms of उनके अनुबंध with customers to define the level ( s ) of service होने sold in मैदान भाषा terms.
in इस case the sla होगा typically have a technical परिभाषा in terms of mean time between failures ( MTBF ), औसत time to repair or औसत time to recovery ( MTTR ) ; विभिन्न आंकड़ा दरों ; throughput ; जिटर ; or similar measurable विवरण.
Union Station is a former खरीदारी mall in संघ नगर, Georgia, in southwest मैट्रो Atlanta सटा to Interstate 85.
बाद new ownership और renovations in 2006, the name थी changed from शैनन southpark Mall in 2007 to संघ Station मॉल.
a पिछला नवीकरण थी done in the लेट 1990s.
The मॉल रै महरूम closed since नवम्बर 2010.
This मैप shows the संलग्न संयुक्त राज्य and, in insets at the lower बाएँ, the दो states कि हैं not संलग्न.
The contiguous संयुक्त States are the 48 adjoining u.S. राज्य on the महाद्वीप of North America कि हैं south of Canada और north of Mexico, plus the ज़िला of कोलंबिया.
the term excludes the states of अलास्का and Hawaii, and सब off-shore u.S. territories and possessions, ऐसे as Puerto रीको.
Together, the 48 संलग्न states और D.C. occupy a संयुक्त area of, which is 1.58 % of the कुल सतह area of the Earth.
Of this, is जमीन, composing 83.65 % of U.S. जमीन क्षेत्रफल.
Officially, is जल क्षेत्रफल, composing 62.66 % of the nation 's जल क्षेत्रफल.
the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी जनसांख्यिकी थी 306,675,006, composing 99.33 % of the nation 's population, और a density of 103.639 inhabitants/sq mi ( 40.015/km2 ), compared to 87.264/sq mi ( 33.692/km2 ) for the nation as a पूरे.
`` Why '' is the शीर्षक of a song अंकित by अमरीकी देश बैंड Rascal flatts.
it is the third सिंगल इससे their छठे स्टुडियो एल्बम, Unstoppable.
it थी released to रेडियो stations on September 29, 2009 और debuted at # 44 on the u.s. बिलबोर्ड US Billboard Hot Country गीतों chart for the week of October 10, 2009.
it was लिखा by Rob Mathes और एलन Shamblin.
utilization management is the मूल्यांकन of the appropriateness, medical need and दक्षता of स्वास्थ्य care services प्रक्रियाओं और सुविधाएं according to established मापदण्ड or दिशानिर्देश and under the प्रावधानों of an applicable स्वास्थ्य benefits योजना.
Typically it includes new क्रियाएँ or decisions based upon the analysis of a case.
Utilization प्रबन्धन describes proactive procedures, including discharge नियोजन, concurrent नियोजन, pre-certification और नैदानिक case appeals.
It also covers proactive प्रक्रियाओं, such as संयुक्त नैदानिक समीक्षाएँ and peer reviews, as well as appeals introduced by the प्रदाता, payer or patient.
As pre-certification और संयुक्त review of cases grew, utilization प्रबन्धन spun आउट of utilization review.
जबकि नहीं synonymous, स्वास्थ्य परवाह professionals tend to उपयोग the terms as interchangeable.
the difference is utilization management is और intends to manage स्वास्थ्य care मामले efficiently और लागत effectively पहले and दौरान health care प्रशासन.
Utilization review is more considering whether health परवाह was appropriately लागू after it was administered.
There हैं four मौलिक तकनीकों in utilization management:
माँग प्रबन्धन
utilization Review
Case प्रबन्धन
बीमारी प्रबन्धन
The Outsiders is a coming-of-age novel by S. E. Hinton, पहला published in 1967 by Viking दबायें.
hinton was 15 जब she started लिखने the novel, but किया most of the work जब वो was सोलह and a जूनियर in ऊँची school.
Hinton थी 18 when the किताब was प्रकाशित.
The book फ़ॉलो दो rival समूह, the Greasers and the Socs ( pronounced by the author as, छोटी for Socials ), who are divided by their socioeconomic status.
The किताब takes place in तुलसा, Oklahoma, in 1965, लकिन it is never stated in the book.
A film adaptation थी produced in 1983, और a little-known short-lived टेलीविज़न series appeared in 1990, picking up where the फिल्म left off.
The United राज्य House of प्रतिनिधि is एक of the दो घरों of the United राज्य कॉंग्रेस ( a bicameral legislature ).
It is अक्सर referred to as the House.
the other हाउस is the Senate.
The संयोजन और शक्तियां of the हाउस are established in Article एक of the United राज्य Constitution.
The major शक्ति of the हाउस is to pass federal legislation कि affects the संपूर्ण country although its बिल्स जरूर भी be passed by the सीनेट and further agreed to by the u.S. President पहले बनने विधि ( unless both the हाउस और Senate re-pass the विधान with a two-thirds बहुमत in each कक्ष ).
The House has अनेक exclusive powers : the power to initiate आय बिल्स, to impeach officials, और to elect the u.S. President in case वहीँ is no majority in the चुनावी College.
Each U.S. state is represented in the हाउस in proportion to its population लकिन is entitled to at तनिक one representative.
The most populous state, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, फिलहाल has 53 प्रतिनिधि.
the total क्रमांक of मतदान representatives is fixed by law at 435.
Each प्रतिनिधि serves for a two-year पद.
The स्पीकर of the United राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि, who presides over the कक्ष, is elected by the सदस्यों of the हाउस, and is therefore traditionally the leader of the House Democratic caucus or the हाउस रिपब्लिकन सम्मेलन, whichever party has more voting सदस्यों.
the House meets in the दक्षिण wing of the United राज्य कैपिटल.
a supply कड़ी is दरअसल a जटिल और dynamic supply और माँग संजाल.
( cf. wieland/wallenburg, 2011 )
a सप्लाई कड़ी is a system of संगठन, लोगों, activities, सूचना, और संसाधन शामिल in चलती a product or सेवा from supplier to customer.
सप्लाई chain activities transform natural resources, कच्चा सामग्री, and components into a समाप्त उत्पाद कि is delivered to the end customer.
in sophisticated सप्लाई कड़ी प्रणालियों, used उत्पाद may re-enter the supply कड़ी at कोई पाइंट जहाँ अवशेष मान is recyclable.
Supply chains कड़ी value जंजीरों.
`` जामुनी haze '' is a song written and recorded by जिमि Hendrix in 1967, released as the second सिंगल by The जिमि Hendrix अनुभव in both the संयुक्त किंगडम और the संयुक्त States.
It बाद appeared on the अमरीकी संस्करण of the बैंड 's 1967 album हैं तुम Experienced.
`` Purple Haze '' रै become one of the `` archetypical psychedelic ड्रग गीतों of the sixties ''.
`` जामुनी haze 's '' guitar virtuosic techniques होता be emulated by many metal guitarists.
a बंद up picture of a गैंडा स्किन.
स्किन is the soft outer covering of vertebrates.
Other एनिमल coverings ऐसे as the arthropod exoskeleton have different developmental origin, ढांचा and रासायनिक composition.
The adjective cutaneous means `` of the स्किन '' ( from Latin cutis, स्किन ).
In स्तनधारियों, the skin is the largest organ of the integumentary system made up of अनेक layers of ectodermal ऊतक, और गार्ड the underlying muscles, bones, ligaments और आतंरिक अंगों.
स्किन of a अलग प्रकृति exists in amphibians, सरीसृपों, and पक्षियों.
All mammals have some बाल on उनके skin, even marine स्तनधारियों which appear to be hairless.
The skin interfaces साथ the पर्यावरण and is the पहला लकीर of defense from external factors.
लिये उदाहरण, the skin plays a कुंजी भूमिका in protecting the देह against pathogens and excessive जल घाटा.
Its other कृत्यों हैं insulation, temperature regulation, sensation, and the production of विटामिन D folates.
Severely damaged skin may heal by forming scar tissue.
इस is sometimes discoloured और depigmented.
The thickness of स्किन भी varies इससे location to location on an organism.
in इंसानो लिये उदाहरण, the skin स्तिथ अंतर्गत the eyes और around the eyelids is the thinnest स्किन in the देह at 0.5 mm मोटा, और is one of the first क्षेत्रों to दिखाएँ लक्षण of aging such as `` crows feet '' और wrinkles.
the स्किन on the palms and the soles of the feet is 4 mm मोटा and the thickest स्किन in the body.
फर is घना hair.
Primarily, fur augments the इन्सुलेशन the skin provides but can also serve as a secondary sexual characteristic or as camouflage.
On some पशु, the स्किन is very मुश्किल और thick, and can be processed to create चमड़े.
सरीसृपों and fish have hard सुरक्षात्मक तराजू on उनके स्किन लिये सुरक्षा, और birds have मुश्किल feathers, सब बना of tough β- keratins.
Amphibian skin is not a strong अवरोध to ड्योढ़ी of chemicals and is often subject to osmosis and diffusive forces.
लिये example, a मेंढक sitting in an anesthetic समाधान होता be sedated जल्दी, as the chemical diffuses through its skin.
थामस स्कॉट
The रेव. थामस Scott ( 1747-1821 ) थी an influential preacher और author जो is प्रधानतया known लिये उसके best-selling कार्य a Commentary on The पूरे Bible और the फ़ोर्स of Truth, and as one of the founders of the Church मिशनरी समाज.
डेनियल Radcliffe, जो portrays Harry Potter, रै been the icon of the फिल्मी series चूंकि the release of the पहला film in 2001.
कुछ of the सबसे renowned actors of the संयुक्त किंगडम और आयरलैंड have voiced or portrayed characters appearing in the हैरी Potter film श्रेणी आधारित on the book series by J. K. Rowling.
डेनियल Radcliffe, Rupert grint और एम्मा Watson have निभाई Harry Potter, रॉन वीज़्ली और Hermione Granger in सब the films.
जब वे were cast तभी Radcliffe था previously acted in a film.
complementing उन्हें on स्क्रीन are such actors as हेलेना bonham कार्टर, जिम broadbent, John cleese, Robbie coltrane, warwick Davis, ralph fiennes, माइकल gambon, Brendan Gleeson, Richard ग्रीफिथ, Richard Harris, जॉन ठेस, जेसन Isaacs, miriam margolyes, हेलेन McCrory, गेरी Oldman, Alan rickman, Fiona शॉ, मैगी Smith, टिमोथी spall, Imelda Staunton, दाउद Thewlis, एम्मा थॉम्पसन, and जूली Walters, among others.
तेरह अभिनेताओं have appeared as the वही अक्षर in सब eight films of the मताधिकार.
Some well-known अंग्रेजों अभिनेताओं who have नहीं appeared in the series, are पूछा in jest why they have not been cast.
जब दाउद Yates थी directing the पांचवां फिल्मी, Bill Nighy, who था previously collaborated with Yates on तीन of his television प्रोजेक्ट, कहा कि he joked with Yates कि संभवतः now he would n't be the तभी actor in इंग्लैण्ड who था n't महरूम in हैरी Potter.
`` But nobody पुकारा '', nighy added.
लकिन in 2009, येट्स cast Nighy as Minister of Magic rufus Scrimgeour in Deathly hallows.
Nighy कहा, `` I am no longer the तभी English actor नहीं to be in हैरी कुम्हार और i am बहुत pleased. ''
Jude Law रै quipped, `` nobody 's पूछा me.
i was a bit too बूढ़ा लिये Harry ''.
When a reporter compared potions professor होरेस slughorn 's obsession with प्रसिद्ध names to the series ' कनेक्शन to `` प्रत्येक notable British actor, '' जिम Broadbent, जो plays slughorn कहा, `` Well, नहीं प्रत्येक कर्ता gets invited.
I know some जो are स्टिल प्रतीक्षारत. ''
With the एक्सेप्शन of क्रिस कोलंबस, प्रत्येक निदेशक रै had a कैमियो appearance in his respective फिल्मी : Alfonso Cuarón appears as a जादूगर पकड़कर a मोमबत्ती during a scene at the तीन broomsticks in Prisoner of azkaban ; माइक Newell is सुना briefly as the रेडियो प्रस्तुतकर्ता in फ़्रैंक ब्राइस 's हाउस in प्याला of Fire ; और दाउद येट्स features as a जादूगर भीतर a magical चलती portrait in अनुक्रम of the Phoenix.
Producer David heyman also makes a कैमियो appearance as a wizard प्रदर्शित within a magical moving portrait in the third फिल्मी, Prisoner of Azkaban.
J. K. रोलिंग gave a speech दौरान the world premiere of the फाइनल film in the series— हैरी कुम्हार और the Deathly hallows Part 2 —on 7 July 2011 in London, England.
She announced कि she could never have dreamt of the talented actors and अभिनेत्रियों जो have appeared in सब the हैरी Potter movies.
Rowling also announced कि वहीँ हैं सात हैरी Potter फिल्मी श्रेणी डाल members, who वो refers to as `` The बिग सात '', they हैं Daniel Radcliffe, रुपर्ट Grint, एम्मा वाटसन, Tom felton, मैथ्यू लुईस, evanna Lynch और bonnie राइट.
the list नीचे is sorted by फिल्मी and अक्षर, as कुछ characters have been portrayed by अनेक अभिनेताओं.
कुंजी
( v ) indicates the कर्ता or actress lent only his or her आवाज़ लिये उसके or her फिल्मी अक्षर
( y ) indicates the actor or actress portrayed the भूमिका in a flashback झाँकी or जब the अक्षर थी young.
( f ) indicates the actor or actress did not appear in any new फुटेज लिये the film ; फुटेज इससे an पहले film or films थी प्रयुक्त.
a लाइट grey कोशिका ( ऐसे as the one in the `` दान burbage '' row in the `` पारस 's स्टोन '' column ) indicates the अक्षर was नहीं in the फिल्मी adaptation.
A twelve-step program is a नियत of guiding सिद्धान्त ( स्वीकृत by members as 'spiritual principles, ' आधारित on the स्वीकृत साहित्य ) outlining a कोर्स of कार्रवाई लिये रिकवरी इससे, मजबूरी, or other behavioral समस्याएं.
Originally proposed by alcoholics बेनाम ( aa ) as a method of recovery from alcoholism, the Twelve Steps यहूद first published in the किताब alcoholics Anonymous : The Story of कैसा अधिक than One सौ मेन have बरामद इससे Alcoholism in 1939.
the method was then adapted and became the foundation of अन्य twelve-step programs.
As summarized by the American Psychological Association, the process involves the following:
admitting कि एक can नहीं control one 's व्यसन or compulsion ;
recognizing a higher power that can give strength ;
examining पास्ट errors साथ the help of a प्रायोजक ( अनुभवी member ) ;
making amends लिये these त्रुटियाँ ;
सीखना to सजीव a new life with a नई कोड of behavior ;
helping others जो suffer इससे the वही addictions or compulsions.
गवाह impeachment, in the law of प्रमाण of the United States, is the process of कॉलिंग into सवाल the credibility of an individual who is testifying in a trial.
The संघीय Rules of Evidence contain the नियम governing महाभियोग in federal न्यायालयों.
Party leaders and whips of the United राज्य हाउस of Representatives are elected by उनके respective parties in a closed-door caucus by secret बैलट और हैं also known as मंजिल नेताओ.
The U.S. House of प्रतिनिधि करता not officially उपयोग the पद `` Minority नेता '' although the मीडिया frequently do.
the House बजाय उपयोग the terms `` Republican नेता '' or `` लोकतांत्रिक नेता '' depending on जिससे पार्टी holds a अल्पसंख्यक of सीटे.
the current House Majority नेता is रिपब्लिकन eric Cantor, जबकि the वर्तमान House अल्पसंख्यक नेता is Democrat Nancy Pelosi.
The current House Majority Whip is रिपब्लिकन Kevin मैकार्थी, जबकि the वर्तमान House अल्पसंख्यक चाबुक is डेमोक्रेट steny hoyer.
Following the outbreak of संसार War I in 1914, the German Army खोली the Western सामने by first आक्रमणकारी Luxembourg और Belgium, then gaining military कंट्रोल of important औद्योगिक regions in France.
the tide of the advance was dramatically turned with the Battle of the Marne.
Following the रेस to the sea, both sides dug in along a meandering लकीर of fortified trenches, stretching इससे the North Sea to the Swiss frontier with France.
This line remained essentially अपरिवर्तित for most of the युद्ध.
between 1915 and 1917 वहीँ were several प्रमुख offensives साथ this सामने.
The attacks employed विशाल artillery bombardments और massed infantry अग्रिम.
however, a संयोजन of entrenchments, यंत्र गन nests, कंटीले wire, और तोपखाने repeatedly inflicted कठोर हताहत on the attackers और counterattacking defenders.
as a result, no significant अग्रिम यहूद made.
among the most costly of ये offensives were the बैटल of verdun साथ a combined [ estimated ] 700,000 dead, the Battle of the Somme with अधिक than [ an estimated ] million हताहत, और the Battle of Passchendaele साथ roughly [ an अनुमानित ] 600,000 casualties.
In an effort to ब्रेक the deadlock, इस front saw the परिचय of new military technology, including ज़हर गैस, वायुयान and tanks.
लकिन it was तभी after the adoption of improved tactics कि कुछ degree of mobility थी restored.
the जर्मनी वसन्त अप्रिय of 1918 थी made possible by the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk कि चिह्नित the समाप्त of the conflict on the Eastern सामने.
using the recently-introduced infiltration tactics, the German सेना advanced nearly to the west, जिससे चिह्नित the deepest अग्रिम by either side since 1914 और बहुत nearly succeeded in forcing a भेदन.
In spite of the generally stagnant nature of this सामने, this थिएटर would prove निर्णायक.
the inexorable advance of the अलाइड सेना during the दूसरी half of 1918 persuaded the German कमांडरों that शिकस्त थी inevitable, and the सरकारी was forced to sue for शर्तें of an armistice.
the terms of peace were agreed upon with the signing of the सन्धि of Versailles in 1919.
The following is a सूची of recurring and नाबालिग characters in the डिज़्नी चैनल असली Series the सुइट जीवन of Zack & Cody.
These वर्ण were regularly घुमाया, often disappearing लिये long periods during the श्रेणी.
The following सूची of characters has महरूम sorted alphabetically, by first name.
कुछ of the वर्ण था no last नाम और most were commonly referred to by their पहला नाम so this appeared to be the सबसे logical विधि.
In the case of शेफ़ पाउलो, जो था no ज्ञात पहला नाम, वे have महरूम सूचीबद्ध by शीर्षक.
The First महिला of the संयुक्त राज्य ( flotus ) is the होस्टेस of the श्वेत हाउस.
क्युकी this position is traditionally filled by the बीवी of the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States, the शीर्षक is सबसे प्रायः लागू to the बीवी of a sitting president.
The current पहला महिला is मिशेल ओबामा.
After her husband बराक Obama थी re-elected on November 6, 2012, she is अनुसूचित to serve until जनवरी 20, 2017.
Septic shock is a चिकित्सा कंडीशन as a result of कठोर infection and sepsis, though the microbe may be प्रणालीगत or localized to a particular साईट.
It can कारण अनेक organ dysfunction सिंड्रोम ( formerly known as अनेक organ विफलता ) and मौत.
इसके सबसे आम पीड़ितों हैं children, immunocompromised individuals, and the elderly, as their प्रतिरक्षा systems can नहीं deal साथ the infection as effectively as those of स्वस्थ वयस्कों.
Frequently, मरीजों suffering इससे septic shock are cared लिये in intensive care इकाई.
The mortality rate इससे सेप्टिक शॉक is लगभग 25–50 %.
Kevin brereton ( born फ़रवरी 20, 1972 ), better known by उसके स्टेज name k-os ( ; `` अराजकता '' ), is a Canadian rapper, सिंगर, songwriter and रिकार्ड निर्माता.
उसके दिए नाम may also be cited as Kheaven, a spelling he बाद adopted.
the alias `` k-os '', spelled with a निम्नतर मामला `` k '', was intended to be कम aggressive than the pseudonyms of अन्य rappers जिनकी names were all अपर case, such as KRS-One.
It is an एक्रोनिम for `` ज्ञान of Self, '' although in a बाद इंटरव्यू he said कि it originally stood for `` केविन 's Original ध्वनि. '' k-os ' music incorporates a चौड़ी variety of music genres, सहित रैप, funk, चट्टान, and रेगी.
The lyrics अक्सर focus on promoting a `` धनात्मक संदेश '' जबकि at times expressing आलोचना of मुख्यधारा hip hop संस्कृति 's obsession साथ money, fame and glorification of हिंसा.
A musician as well as a निर्माता, k-os रै लिखा and उत्पादित nearly every भाग of सब चार of his एल्बम.
k-os usually performs with a सजीव बैंड, something that is uncommon in the hip हॉप genre.
He sometimes plays guitar and keyboard both during सजीव प्रदर्शन और in the studio.
k-os प्राप्त his first musical exposure साथ the सिंगल `` musical Essence '', released in 1993.
After the release of उसके दूसरी सिंगल `` वृद्धि Like the Sun '' in 1996, he withdrew इससे the industry because he was dissatisfied साथ his musical स्टाइल.
he reappeared briefly in 1999 और released his डेब्यू album Exit in 2002.
The album received positive समीक्षाएँ लकिन sold अपेक्षाकृत few नक़ल.
he released his दूसरी एल्बम Joyful विद्रोह in 2004, जिससे प्राप्त platinum status in Canada.
A third एल्बम,, थी released in 2006 and also went प्लेटिनम.
His fourth एल्बम, यस !
, was released in 2009.
His पांचवां album BLack on BLonde थी released in 2013.
The आधिकारिक 2007 edition of the UCC.
Even the गोपनीय rough मसौदा of the UCC were saved और प्रकाशित as a 10-volume नियत.
the वर्दी वाणिज्यिक Code ( UCC or the कोड ), पहला प्रकाशित in 1952, is one of a क्रमांक of वर्दी acts कि have been promulgated in conjunction साथ efforts to harmonize the law of बिक्री and other वाणिज्यिक ट्रांजेक्शन in सब 50 राज्य within the United राज्य of America.
multi-pitch climbing is the ascent of climbing रूट साथ one or अधिक stops at a belay स्टेशन.
प्रत्येक section of वास्तविक चढ़ाई between stops at the belay stations is called a pitch.
the leader ascends the पिच, placing गियर और stopping to लंगर themselves to the belay station.
the कारण for the stops can be संकल्पित by चुनाव, सम्मेलन or necessity.
लिये example:
the rope is too छोटी to do the संपूर्ण रूट in one pitch ( necessity ).
The leader रै run आउट of सुरक्षात्मक gear ( necessity ).
वहीँ is a सुविधाजनक protectable ledge, or fixed bolts placed by previous चढना, at the स्थान for a belay station ( सम्मेलन ).
The leader chooses to बाकी or exchange leads before the अगला section of the चढ़ाई ( चुनाव ).
the सामान्य purpose of ये stops is to allow the second to ascend to the point of the सीसे climber जबकि collecting the सुरक्षात्मक gear from the रूट in the course of the सीसे climber 's ascent.
at the belay स्टेशन, the protective gear is collected, संभवतः exchanged to a नई leader, और the leader of the next पिच ascends the रूट.
A आरेख showing an I Formation on offense और a 4-3 Formation on रक्षा
In अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल, each team रै ग्यारह players on the field at एक समय.
the विशिष्ट role that a खिलाड़ी takes on the field is पुकारा their स्थिति.
अंतर्गत the modern rules of American फ़ुटबॉल, टीमों are allowed unlimited subsititutions, that is टीमों may change any क्रमांक of players बाद any play.
This रै resulted in the विकास of three `` platoons '' of खिलाड़ी, the ठोकर ( the team साथ the बॉल, who is trying to score ), the रक्षा ( the team trying to prevent the other टोली from scoring, और to take the ball from them ), and the special teams ( who play in kicking परिस्थितियों ).
भीतर those platoons, various specific स्थितियाँ मौजूद depending on what the player 's main job is.
The नियंत्रित substances Act ( सीएसए ) was enacted into law by the कॉंग्रेस of the United States as Title ii of the व्यापक Drug गाली Prevention and Control Act of 1970.
the CSA is the संघीय U.S. ड्रग नीति under जिससे the manufacture, importation, कब्ज़ा, उपयोग और वितरण of निश्चित substances is regulated.
the अधिनियम also परोसा as the national implementing विधान for the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.
the विधान निर्मित पाँच schedules ( classifications ), साथ varying qualifications for a substance to be included in each.
दो संघीय agencies, the ड्रग प्रवर्तन प्रशासन and the Food और Drug Administration, determine which substances हैं added to or removed इससे the various schedules, though the statute passed by Congress created the initial listing, and Congress has sometimes अनुसूचित अन्य substances through legislation ऐसे as the Hillory J. Farias और सामन्था reid date-rape Prevention अधिनियम of 2000, जिससे लगाई gamma hydroxybutyrate in अनुसूची I. वर्गीकरण निर्णय are जरूरी to be बना on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined पद ), फिलहाल accepted चिकित्सा उपयोग in उपचार in the संयुक्त States, and अंतरराष्ट्रीय treaties.
The वेन Route 23 Transit बीच is a नई जर्सी Transit park-and-ride स्टेशन in Wayne, नई जर्सी साथ the Montclair-Boonton Line that provides bus service to नई York नगर and विभिन्न अन्य अंक in the क्षेत्रफल as well as montclair-boonton Line ट्रैन सेवा to New York, hoboken, और इंटरमीडिएट अंक along the line between Hackettstown and montclair राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों.
it is located off of the southbound lanes of New जर्सी रूट 23 on West Belt Road, निकट the interchange where Route 23, Interstate 80, और U.S. Route 46 meet, आरपार from the Willowbrook Mall.
the station खोली in January 2008 and रै 1,000 parking स्पेसेस.
New जर्सी Transit intends लिये this संयुक्त rail and bus स्टेशन to become an `` interceptor station, '' कि will help relieve the habitual congestion at the वेस्ट Belt सड़क इंटरचेंज, जहाँ the three प्रमुख राजमार्गों meet.
in addition, the construction of the station थी meant to also आसानी the congestion at what थी then Route 23 Park & सवारी, a bus depot on Route 23 North that रै since been renamed माँ 's पार्क & Ride, और the Willowbrook Mall पार्क & सवारी ; the now-Mother 's साईट था सीमित parking जबकि NJT थी having ट्रबल with overfull parking क्षेत्रों at Willowbrook.
the वेन township बस garage is स्तिथ on the विपरीत पक्ष of रूट 23.
वहीँ has महरूम a प्रस्ताव to निर्माण a parking डेक साथ another thousand spots and develop the जमीन at the station.
in जोड to Montclair-Boonton रेल, the पारगमन Center is served by the following नई Jersey Transit bus lines:
75 to न्यूर्क Penn Station और बटलर
194 to Port Authority बस टर्मिनल और butler/newfoundland
198 to Port प्राधिकार Bus Terminal and William paterson University
324 to बंदरगाहों Authority और Wayne रूट 23
748 to Willowbrook मॉल and paterson
the at sign @ is भी commonly called the at प्रतीक, ampersat, apetail or commercial at in English—and कम commonly a चौड़ी दायरा of other terms.
the फैक्ट कि there is no single शब्द in English लिये the प्रतीक रै prompted कुछ writers to use the फ्रेंच arobase or स्पेनी and पुर्तगाली arroba—or to coin नई शब्द such as asperand, ampersat—but none of ये रै हासिल चौड़ी करेंसी.
Originally an हिसाब and commercial invoice abbreviation meaning `` at the rate of '' ( e.g. 7 विजेट @ $ 2 = $ 14 ), it थी नहीं शामिल on the कुंजीपटल of the earliest commercially कामयाब typewriters, लकिन थी on at तनिक one 1889 मॉडल और the बहुत कामयाब Underwood मॉडल इससे the `` Underwood No. 5 '' in 1900 onward.
it is now universally included on कंप्यूटर keyboards.
In recent years, its meaning has grown to include the भाव of being `` located at, '' `` और, '' or `` directed at '', विशेषकर in ईमेल addresses and social media, particularly ट्विटर.
The mark is एनकोडेड at.
the catcher in the rye is a 1951 अनोखा by J. D. Salinger.
Originally प्रकाशित for adults, it रै चूंकि become popular with adolescent readers for its themes of teenage angst and alienation.
it रै been अनूदित into almost all of the संसार 's प्रमुख भाषाएं.
Around 250,000 नक़ल are sold प्रत्येक year साथ total sales of अधिक than 65 million किताबे.
The अनोखा 's protagonist और antihero, Holden Caulfield, रै become an प्रतीक लिये teenage rebellion.
The novel थी included on Times 2005 list of the 100 best english-language novels लिखा since 1923, और it थी named by Modern Library and its readers as one of the 100 best English-language novels of the 20th सदी.
It रै been frequently challenged in the संयुक्त States और other देशों for its उदार उपयोग of profanity and portrayal of sexuality.
It भी सौदे with जटिल मुद्दे of identity, belonging, connection, और alienation.
Skeletal muscles होमो sapiens
This is a table of muscles of the इंसान anatomy.
वहीँ are approximately 642 skeletal मांसपेशियां within the ठेठ इंसान, and almost every muscle constitutes one part of a जोड़ी of एकसमान bilateral muscles, मिला on both पहलू, resulting in लगभग 320 pairs of muscles, as प्रस्तुत in इस article.
nevertheless, the exact क्रमांक is difficult to define क्युकी different स्त्रोत समूह मांसपेशियां differently, e.g. regarding कया is पारिभाषित as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles.
Examples range from 640 to 850.
The मांसपेशियां of the human देह can be categorized into a number of समूह which शामिल मांसपेशियां relating to the सिर and गर्दन, मांसपेशियां of the धड़ or trunk, मांसपेशियां of the upper limbs, और मांसपेशियां of the निम्नतर limbs.
the action refers to the कार्रवाई of each मांसपेशी from the standard anatomical स्थिति.
in other positions, अन्य क्रियाएँ may be performed.
Bad लड़कियों Club ( bgc ) is an American reality टेलीविज़न श्रेणी निर्मित by Jonathan मरे for the ऑक्सीजन टेलीविज़न station.
The show centers on सात feisty and mischievous महिलाओं साथ different backgrounds and personalities, who have a क्रमांक of मनोवैज्ञानिक and behavioral समस्याएं.
They are introduced to the दिखाएँ off their घातक behavior और accomplish विशिष्ट लक्ष्य.
the cast, deemed `` ख़राब girls '', आनंद a luxurious lifestyle in a ठीक mansion for तीन महीने, दौरान which वे must obey specified नियम.
Their जीवनदान अंदर – and बाहर – of the house हैं chronicled और recorded by the उत्पादन team.
the Bad लड़कियों क्लबों is ब्रॉडकास्ट in पाँच देशों ( संयुक्त States, Netherlands, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Hungary, और स्वीडन ).
it रै प्राप्त negative समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों, who मानना the दिखाएँ promotes हिंसा by adolescent viewers.
furthermore, अनेक cast members made विवादास्पद remarks which outraged अनेक viewers.
The format of the दिखाएँ रै बदला इससे early सीज़न.
if a `` bad लड़की '' breaks a rule, वो is evicted from the दिखाएँ और, if it is जल्दी in the ऋतु, replaced by a new `` ख़राब लड़की ''.
There have महरूम nine पूरा seasons of the Bad Girls Club, with the दसवाँ ऋतु फिलहाल airing.
the fourth ऋतु had the उच्चतम ratings in the दिखाएँ 's history, बनने its `` breakthrough season ''.
वहीँ have been three spin-offs of the Bad लड़कियों क्लबों.
एक of उन्हें, प्रेम Games : Bad Girls need प्रेम Too, जहाँ past डाल सदस्यों तलाश सच्चा प्रेम, has gained ऊँची दरजा.
ऑक्सीजन has भी released a मोबाईल खेल, कॉमिक स्ट्रिप and merchandise to promote the दिखाएँ.
of the 92 प्रतियोगी, Kerry Harvick ( of ऋतु one ) थी a successful country singer पहले the दिखाएँ.
Tanisha थामस ( of season two ) बाद hosted Oxygen 's oxygenlive !
and the subsequent seasons of प्रेम Games : ख़राब Girls Need प्रेम Too.
थामस, जो रै been dubbed the `` गॉडमदर '' to all प्रतियोगी, रै her अपना television documentary हकदार tanisha gets Married.
As of Season 8 she 's महरूम the host of the reunion specials.
the Iowa सीनेट is the upper हाउस of the Iowa General Assembly.
वहीँ हैं 50 सीटे in the आयोवा Senate, representing 50 single-member जिले across the राज्य with populations of approximately 60,927 per constituency,.
प्रत्येक Senate ज़िला is रचित of two House districts.
The सीनेट meets at the आयोवा State कैपिटल in Des Moines.
Unlike the निम्नतर हाउस, the Iowa House of Representatives, सीनेटरों serve four-year शर्तें, साथ half of the Senate लड़खड़ाते लिये re-election प्रत्येक दो years.
There हैं no पद हद लिये the Senate.
Mechanical मरम्मत
Maintenance, repair, and परिचालन ( MRO ) or maintenance, repair, और overhaul involves फिक्सिंग कोई sort of mechanical, plumbing or विद्युत device should it become आउट of order or broken ( known as मरम्मत, unscheduled or casualty maintenance ).
It also शामिल performing routine क्रियाएँ जिससे रखना the device in working order ( ज्ञात as scheduled maintenance ) or prevent ट्रबल from arising ( preventive maintenance ).
MRO may be पारिभाषित as, `` All actions which have the उद्देश्य of retaining or restoring an item in or to a राज्य in which it can perform its required फलन.
the क्रियाएँ include the संयोजन of all तकनीकी और सम्बन्धित प्रशासनिक, managerial, और supervision क्रियाएँ. ''
mro परिचालन can be categorised by whether the product remains the प्रॉपर्टी of the ग्राहक, i.e. a सेवा is being offered, or whether the product is bought by the reprocessing संगठन and बेची to कोई ग्राहक wishing to make the खरीदें ( Guadette, 2002 ).
In the पूर्व मामला it may be a backshop operation within a larger संगठन or smaller आपरेशन.
the former of these represents a closed लूप सप्लाई chain and usually रै the scope of मेंटेनेंस, repair or of the product.
the latter of the categorisations is an खोलें लूप supply chain and is typified by refurbishment and remanufacture.
the main characteristic of the closed लूप system is that the माँग for a उत्पाद is matched with the सप्लाई of a प्रयुक्त product.
neglecting एसेट write-offs और असाधारण activities the total जनसांख्यिकी of the उत्पाद between the customer and the service provider remains निरंतर.
Prince William, ड्यूक of Cambridge ( William आर्थर फिलिप Louis ; born 21 जून 1982 ), is the elder son of चार्ल्स, प्रिंस of Wales, और डायना, Princess of Wales, और third-eldest grandchild of Queen एलिज़ाबेथ ii और Prince Philip, ड्यूक of एडिनबर्ग.
he is दूसरी in the लकीर of succession, पीछे उसके पिता, to the thrones of सोलह स्वतंत्र sovereign राज्य known as the Commonwealth realms : the संयुक्त Kingdom, Canada, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, नई जीलैंड, जमैका, बारबाडोस, The बहामा, हरा, Papua New गिनी, the सुलेमान आइलैंड्स, तुवालू, संत Lucia, संत विंसेंट और the Grenadines, बेलीज़, Antigua और बारबूडा, और Saint किट्स और नेविस.
प्रिंस विलियम थी शिक्षित at चार स्कूलों in the United Kingdom and प्राप्त a उपाधि इससे the विश्वविद्यालयों of St एंड्रयूज.
He spent parts of a gap year in Chile, बेलीज़, तंजानिया, and कीनिया where he रै lived और holidayed several टाइम्स.
प्रिंस William रै also लिया kiswahili studies at universities in Kenya and तंजानिया.
he थी commissioned as a लेफ्टिनेंट in the Blues और रॉयल्स Regiment of the Household प्यादे —serving with his brother प्रिंस Harry —and, two years बाद, अर्जित उसके विंग्स by completing पायलट प्रशिक्षण at royal Air फ़ोर्स College Cranwell.
in 2009, he transferred to the royal Air फ़ोर्स, थी प्रचारित to Flight लेफ्टिनेंट and underwent helicopter उड़ती प्रशिक्षण in order to become a full-time पायलट साथ the ढूंढें और Rescue फ़ोर्स.
in 2010, he समाप्त his सामान्य and special-to-type helicopter training और went on to RAF Valley on no. 22 Squadron performing co-pilot duties on board a Sea King ढूंढें और rescue हेलीकाप्टर.
Prince विलियम शादीशुदा उसके longtime girlfriend, Catherine Middleton, on 29 अप्रैल 2011 at Westminster ऐबी.
घंटों prior to उसके विवाह, Prince विलियम was created Duke of Cambridge, अर्ल of strathearn, और सामन्त carrickfergus.
deandre Cortez रास्ता ( born जुलाई 28, 1990 ), better known by उसके stage name Soulja Boy Tell 'Em, or simply Soulja लड़के, is an American rapper, रिकार्ड producer, actor, and उद्योगों.
In सितंबर 2007, his सिंगल `` Crank कि ( soulja लड़के ) `` पहुँचे क्रमांक एक on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100.
The सिंगल थी initially self-published on the अंतरजाल, और it बाद became a number-one hit in the United राज्य for सात non-consecutive सप्ताह starting in September 2007.
on अगस्त 17 Way थी सूचीबद्ध at # 18 on the Forbes सूची of Hip-Hop Cash किंग्स of 2010 earning $ 7 million for कि year.
रास्ता has फिलहाल released three स्टुडियो एल्बम and एक स्वतंत्र album : his debut studio एल्बम Souljaboytellem.com ( 2007 ) थी certified प्लेटिनम by the RIAA.
however, उसके अगला दो albums, iSouljaBoyTellem ( 2008 ) and the DeAndre Way ( 2010 ) किया नहीं match the वाणिज्यिक success of his डेब्यू, the latter तभी selling 100,000 copies, despite the कामयाबी of अनेक singles आरपार both albums, ऐसे as `` Kiss Me thru the Phone `` and `` फेरे my Swag On `` ( iSouljaBoyTellem ) और `` pretty लड़के Swag `` ( The DeAndre Way ).
इस was मुख्यतः due to negotiation problems with Interscope Records जिससे meant a limited amount of रिकॉर्ड were बना उपलब्धियाँ to the पब्लिक.
as of 2011, Way रै confirmed he is working on उसके चौथी studio album, entitled USA ड्रे, जिससे will be released in 2013.
the इलेक्ट्रॉन हस्तांतरण chain in the mitochondrion is the site of oxidative phosphorylation in eukaryotes.
the NADH and succinate generated in the citric एसिड साईकिल हैं oxidized, providing energy to power ATP synthase.
photosynthetic electron transport chain of the thylakoid membrane.
An electron transport chain ( ETC ) युगल electron ट्रांसफ़र between an इलेक्ट्रॉन दाता ( ऐसे as NADH ) और an electron acceptor ( ऐसे as O2 ) साथ the ट्रांसफ़र of H+ ions ( protons ) across a झिल्ली.
the resulting electrochemical proton gradient is used to generate रासायनिक उर्जा in the रूप of एडीनोसिन ट्राइफॉस्फेट ( ATP ).
इलेक्ट्रॉन हस्तांतरण chains are the cellular mechanisms प्रयुक्त लिये extracting energy इससे sunlight in photosynthesis and also इससे redox प्रतिक्रियाएँ, such as the oxidation of sugars ( respiration ).
in chloroplasts, light drives the परिवर्तन of जल to ऑक्सीजन और nadP+ to nadph साथ transfer of H+ ions across chloroplast membranes.
In mitochondria, it is the परिवर्तन of oxygen to water, NADH to NAD+ and succinate to fumarate कि are जरूरी to generate the प्रोटॉन अनुपात.
इलेक्ट्रॉन transport जंजीरों are प्रमुख साइट of असामयिक इलेक्ट्रॉन leakage to ऑक्सीजन, generating superoxide और potentially resulting in increased oxidative तनाव.
Tramadol hydrochloride ( trademarked as conzip, ryzolt, Ultracet, ultram in the यूएसए, ralivia, zytram xl durella { CR-100/200 mg } in Canada or adolonta in स्पेन ) is a centrally एक्टिंग synthetic analgesic प्रयुक्त to treat मॉडरेट to moderately severe पीड़ा.
the ड्रग रै a चौड़ी range of अनुप्रयोग, including उपचार of rheumatoid गठिया, restless legs syndrome, motor neurone disease and fibromyalgia.
it was launched and marketed as tramal by the जर्मनी फार्मास्युटिकल company grünenthal gmbh in 1977.
Tramadol is a weak μ-opioid receptor agonist that भी induces serotonin रिलीज और inhibits the reuptake of norepinephrine.
tramadol is metabolized to O-desmethyltramadol, a significantly more potent μ-opioid agonist.
tramadol and इसके प्रमुख metabolite ( s ) हैं distinguished from other अधिक potent opioid agonists by relative selectivity for μ-opioid receptors.
बर्नार्ड Lawrence `` Bernie '' Madoff ( ; born April 29, 1938 ) is an American former stockbroker, investment advisor, फाइनेंसर, and श्वेत collar criminal.
He is the former non-executive Chairman of the नैस्डैक stock market, और the admitted ऑपरेटर of a Ponzi योजना कि is considered to be the largest वित्तीय fraud in U.S. इतिहास.
madoff founded the वॉल गली firm Bernard L. Madoff निवेश प्रतिभूति llc in 1960, और was इसके अध्यक्ष जबतक his arrest on December 11, 2008.
The firm थी एक of the शीर्ष market maker businesses on वॉल Street, which bypassed `` specialist '' firms by सीधे executing orders over the काउंटर from retail brokers.
he employed at the firm his brother Peter as Senior Managing Director और Chief Compliance Officer ; Peter has since महरूम sentenced to 10 years in prison.
Peter 's बेटी shana madoff as the firm 's नियम और compliance officer और attorney, और उसके बेटे Andrew and चिह्नित ( Mark committed suicide by hanging exactly दो years बाद उसके father 's गिरफ़्तार ).
On December 10, 2008, madoff 's बेटे told अधिकारियों that उनके पिता had confessed to them that the asset प्रबन्धन ईकाई of his firm थी a massive Ponzi scheme, और quoted उसे as describing it as `` one बिग lie. ''
the following दिन, एफबीआई एजेंटों arrested madoff और चार्ज him with one count of प्रतिभूति fraud.
The U.S. Securities and एक्सचेंज आयोग ( सेक ) था previously conducted investigations into madoff 's business practices, लकिन किया not uncover the massive fraud.
In कूच 2009, madoff pleaded अपराधी to 11 federal felonies और admitted to turning उसके माल management कारोबार into a massive पेन्शन scheme that झांसे हज़ारों of investors of अरबों of डॉलर.
madoff said he began the पेन्शन scheme in the early 1990s.
However, federal investigators मानना the fraud began as जल्दी as the 1970s, and those charged साथ recovering the missing money मानना the investment operation may never have महरूम legitimate.
The राशि missing from क्लाएंट accounts, including fabricated gains, was almost $ 65 अरब.
The court-appointed trustee estimated वास्तविक losses to निवेशकों of $ 18 अरब.
On जून 29, 2009, he थी sentenced to 150 सालो in थाना, the अधिकतम अनुमत.
Administrative Professionals Day ( भी ज्ञात as secretaries Day or Admin दिन ) is an unofficial secular अवकाश observed in several देशों to recognize the कार्य of secretaries, administrative assistants, receptionists, and other administrative support पेशेवर.
in North America, it is celebrated on the बुधवार of the last पूरा सप्ताह of April ( April 24 in 2013 ).
In France it is celebrated on the तीसरा गुरुवार in अप्रैल ( April 18 in 2013 ).
In Australia it is मनाये on the first शुक्रवार in may
a quasi-judicial body is an एंटिटी such as an arbitrator or tribunal board, generally of a public प्रशासनिक एजेंसी, जिससे has शक्तियां and procedures resembling those of a court of law or न्यायधीश, and जिससे is obligated to objectively determine facts और draw conclusions from उन्हें so as to provide the basis of an official action.
Such क्रियाएँ are able to उपाय a situation or impose विधिक दंड, और may affect the legal अधिकारों, कर्तव्य or privileges of विशिष्ट पार्टियों.
स्मारक of tycho ब्राहे and Johannes कॅप्लर in प्राग
Tycho ब्राहे ( 14 December 154624 अक्तूबर 1601 ), born tyge ottesen ब्राहे, was a Danish nobleman ज्ञात लिये his accurate and comprehensive astronomical and ग्रहीय observations.
he थी born in स्कैनिया, then part of डेनमार्क, now part of modern-day Sweden.
Tycho was well known in his आजीवन as an astronomer और alchemist.
In his De nova स्टेला ( On the नई star ) of 1573, he refuted the aristotelian विश्वास in an अपरिवर्तनशील celestial फ्रेम.
उसके precise माप indicated कि `` नई सितारों, '' ( stellae novae, अभी known as supernovae ) in particular that of 1572, lacked the parallax अपेक्षित in sub-lunar phenomena, और यहूद therefore नहीं `` atmospheric '' tailless धूमकेतुओं as previously believed, but were above the माहौल and moon.
using समान माप he showed कि धूमकेतुओं यहूद also not atmospheric phenomena, as previously thought, और must pass through the माना `` अपरिवर्तनीय '' celestial spheres.
As an astronomer, tycho worked to combine कया he देखी as the geometrical benefits of the Copernican system with the philosophical benefits of the Ptolemaic प्रणाली into उसके अपना model of the universe, the Tychonic system.
Furthermore, he was the last of the major naked eye खगोलशास्त्रियों, working without telescopes लिये his observations.
Tycho Brahe थी granted an estate on the island of hven और the funding to build the Uraniborg, an early शोध institute, where he built large astronomical यंत्र और took अनेक careful माप, और later stjerneborg, भूमिगत, जब he खोजा कि उसके यंत्र in the former were not sufficiently steady.
on the island ( on which he demonstrated निरंकुश character और बर्ताव toward the निवासियों ) he संस्थापित manufactories ऐसे as paper-making to provide सामग्री लिये मुद्रण his परिणाम.
After मतभिन्नता साथ the new डैनिश king ईसाई iv in 1597, he was invited by the Bohemian किंग और Holy Roman emperor Rudolph II to Prague, where he became the आधिकारिक imperial astronomer.
He निर्मित the नई observatory at benátky nad jizerou.
Here, from 1600 जबतक उसके मौत in 1601, he was assisted by Johannes कॅप्लर जो later used Tycho 's astronomical आंकड़ा to develop Kepler 's कानून of ग्रहीय गति.
Guro District ( guro-gu ) is a ज़िला of Seoul, दक्षिण कोरियाई, which was separated इससे yeongdeungpo ज़िला on April 1, 1980.
Located in the southwestern part of the city, जहाँ besides Yangcheon District और geumcheon ज़िला guro ज़िला has an important स्थिति as a हस्तांतरण link जिससे contains railroads, जमीन routes इससे the बाकी of Seoul to the दक्षिण of the country.
the gyeongbu and Gyeongin railway lines connect सियोल to Busan and इंचियोन.
In जोड, सियोल Metropolitan Subway lines 1, 2, और 7, and प्रमुख राजमार्गों intersect in guro ज़िला.
The name guro originates from the legend that नौ ( ) old men ( Korean : ro ) enjoyed आयु in the ज़िला.
a digital औद्योगिक complex is स्तिथ in guro District.
The guro डिजिटल Industrial जटिल, which निभाई a leading industrial भूमिका mainly साथ textile निर्माण, dressmaking और other labour-intensive उद्योग in 1967, has been rapidly changed into an it industrial जटिल.
This जटिल played a pivotal role in the economic विकास of the दक्षिण कोरियाई 's विकास era, referred to as the `` Miracle on the Han नदी ``, और भी contributed 10 percent of national export in the 1970s.
Twenty-one percent of the कुल area of guro District is a प्रतिबंधित मण्डल to be used as a greenbelt साथ the only arboretum in सियोल.
the zone is changing into a जीवंत ज़िला as विशाल labour-intensive कारखानों are moving from the area और the council is विकासशील what it शर्तें इसके four zones.
An `` e-government `` प्रणाली आधारित on this hosted the अंतरराष्ट्रीय e-participation फ़ोरम on फ़रवरी 7–9, 2007, साथ the participation of more than thirty-seven देशों.
The फ़ोरम was शुभारम्भ with the theme `` Promoting Democracy and क्षेत्रीय Development '' और twenty-five mayors सहित André santini ( issy-les-moulineaux, फ़्रांस ), Kevin foy ( Chapel हिल, US ), Apirak Kosayothin ( बैंकॉक, थाईलैंड ), uvais मोहम्मद Emthiyas ( Colombo, Sri लंका ), and world experts ऐसे as Dr विलियम H. dutton ( निदेशक of ऑक्सफोर्ड Internet Institute at the विश्वविद्यालयों of Oxford, uk ) and dr ari-veiko Anttiroiko ( प्राध्यापक at the University of Tampere, Finland ) participated in the forum.
The guro Declaration, adopted during the फ़ोरम, aims to नियत up a portal साईट लिये e-government development और to establish a concrete प्रोजेक्ट in अनुक्रम to bridge the digital divide among the संसार 's cities.
This practice रै been recognised लिये providing a new important कदम in the विकास of e-democracy.
the e-participation forum was a कुंजी factor लिये guro to खेल the अग्रणी role in bridging the डिजिटल divide among cities, to provide i.t. उद्यमों स्तिथ in Guro डिजिटल औद्योगिक जटिल the opportunity to launch into the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मार्केट, to improve इसके image और become a global नेता to concrete e-democracy.
the international e-participation forum on फ़रवरी 7–9, 2007
a wonton ( also spelled wantan, wanton, or wuntun in transcription from cantonese ; मंदारिन : húndùn ) is a type of dumpling commonly found in a number of Chinese cuisines.
अनेक लोगों were involved in the आविष्कार of रेडियो as we अभी जान it.
अनेक possible methods of wireless communication यहूद considered, including inductive और capacitive प्रेरण और transmission through the ground, however the विधि used for radio today exclusively involves the हस्तांतरण and रिसेप्शन of electromagnetic लहरें.
After early speculation on the विषय, प्रायोगिक work on the connection between electricity और magnetism began around 1820 साथ the कार्य of hans ईसाई ओर्स्टेड और जारी with the कार्य of andré-marie एम्पीयर, Joseph Henry, and माइकल Faraday.
ये investigations culminated in the complete सिद्धान्त of विद्युत्चुम्बकत्व विकसित by James क्लर्क मैक्सवेल.
This सिद्धान्त described the सैद्धांतिक आधार of the propagation of electromagnetic लहरें.
बाद मैक्सवेल 's सिद्धान्त was published अनेक लोगों experimented with wireless संचार, कुछ intentionally using Maxwell 's theory कुछ नहीं.
it is considered likely that the पहला जानबूझकर हस्तांतरण of a signal by अर्थात् of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक लहरें was performed by David Edward Hughes around 1880, although इस थी considered to be induction at the समय.
The पहला व्यवस्थित और unequivocal हस्तांतरण of EM waves was performed by Heinrich Rudolf हर्ट्ज़ and वर्णित in papers published in 1887 और 1890.
हर्ट्ज़ famously considered these results as होने of little practical मान.
बाद Hertz 's कार्य अनेक लोगों were शामिल in the विकास of components और theory involved with the हस्तांतरण and रिसेप्शन of electromagnetic लहरें.
अन्य, notably Guglielmo मार्कोनी, यहूद चिंतित with व्यावहारिक improvements and the commercial application of रेडियो to wireless telegraphy.
Later on Reginald A. fessenden became the पहला to भेजें an ऑडियो signal by अर्थात् of electromagnetic waves.
स्कर्वी is a बीमारी resulting इससे a deficiency of विटामिन C, which is required for the संश्लेषण of collagen in इंसानो.
The chemical नाम for विटामिन C, ascorbic acid, is derived इससे the लैटिन नाम of scurvy, scorbutus, which also provides the क्रियाशील scorbutic ( `` of, characterized by or having to do साथ scurvy '' ).
स्कर्वी often presents itself initially as लक्षण of malaise और lethargy, followed by गठन of धब्बे on the skin, spongy मसूड़ों, and bleeding इससे the mucous झिल्लियों.
धब्बे are most abundant on the जांघों and legs, and a व्यक्ति साथ the ailment looks pale, feels उदास, and is partially immobilized.
as scurvy अग्रिम, there can be खोलें, suppurating wounds, loss of teeth, jaundice, ज्वर, neuropathy और मौत.
स्कर्वी was at एक समय आम among sailors, pirates and अन्य aboard जहाजों at sea longer than perishable fruits and vegetables could be भंडारित ( subsisting बजाय only on cured and salted meats and dried दाने ) and by सैनिको similarly वंचित of ये भोजन लिये extended अवधि.
it थी वर्णित by Hippocrates ( c. 460 BC–c. 380 bc ), और हर्बल cures for स्कर्वी have been ज्ञात in अनेक देशी संस्कृतियों since prehistory.
स्कर्वी थी one of the limiting कारकों of marine सफर, often killing large numbers of the passengers और crew on long-distance voyages.
इस became a significant issue in Europe इससे the beginning of the modern era in the आयु of डिस्कवरी in the 15th century, continuing to play a significant role through संसार War i in the 20th century.
जबकि आज scurvy is ज्ञात to be caused by a nutritional deficiency, until the isolation of vitamin c और सीधा evidence of its link to scurvy in 1932, numerous theories and treatments were proposed, प्रायः on छोटी or no प्रायोगिक आंकड़ा.
इस inconsistency is attributed to the कमी of vitamin C as a पृथक अवधारणा, an अक्षमता to reliably कड़ी different foods ( notably उपस्थित in fresh citrus, watercress, और अंग मांस ) to scurvy.
an additional concept required to समझे scurvy was the degradation of vitamin C by एक्सपोज़र to air and copper and other transition metal salts ऐसे as those of iron, thus बदलना the links of foods to स्कर्वी over समय.
उपचार by fresh food, विशेषकर citrus fruit, was periodically implemented, as it था महरूम चूंकि प्राचीनता.
however जबतक the 1930s, treatment थी inconsistent, with अनेक अप्रभावी treatments used into the 20th century.
it थी a Scottish सर्जन in the royal नेवी, जेम्स lind जो पहला proved it could be treated साथ citrus fruit in प्रयोग he वर्णित in his 1753 किताब, a Treatise of the स्कर्वी, हालांकि उसके सलाह was not implemented by the Royal नेवी for अनेक decades.
in infants, scurvy is sometimes referred to as barlow 's disease, named बाद Sir Thomas Barlow, a अंग्रेजों physician जो वर्णित it.
However, barlow 's disease may भी refer to mitral वाल्व prolapse.
Other eponyms लिये scurvy शामिल moeller 's बीमारी और cheadle 's disease.
स्कर्वी करता नहीं occur in most animals क्युकी they can synthesize उनके own vitamin c.
However, humans and other उच्चतर primates ( the simians - बंदरों और apes - और tarsiers ), guinea pigs, most or all bats, और some species of पक्षियों और fish lack an एंजाइम ( L-gulonolactone oxidase ) necessary लिये ऐसे संश्लेषण और जरूर obtain vitamin c through their diet.
Vitamin c is फैली in plant ऊतकों, साथ विशेषकर high concentrations occurring in citrus फल ( oranges, lemons, limes, grapefruits ), टमाटर, आलू, पत्तागोभी, और green मिर्च.
आयरन is a रासायनिक तत्व with the symbol fe ( इससे ) और atomic number 26.
it is a मेटल in the first परिवर्तन series.
It is the most common element ( by द्रव्यमान ) forming the ग्रह धरती as a whole, forming much of Earth 's बाहरी and inner core.
it is the fourth most common element in the धरती 's क्रस्ट.
Iron 's very common presence in रॉकी planets जैसे Earth is due to its abundant उत्पादन as a परिणाम of fusion in high-mass सितारों, जहाँ the production of nickel-56 ( which decays to the most common isotope of आयरन ) is the पिछला नाभिकीय संलयन reaction कि is ऊष्माक्षेपी.
इस कल्याणकारी radioactive निकल to become the पिछला तत्व to be produced before पतन of a सुपरनोवा लीड to the विस्फोटक events that scatter this precursor radionuclide of आयरन abundantly into space.
Like other group 8 elements, आयरन exists in a wide range of ऑक्सीकरण states, −2 to +6, हालांकि +2 और +3 are the most common.
elemental iron occurs in meteoroids and अन्य कम ऑक्सीजन environments, but is reactive to ऑक्सीजन और जल.
Fresh iron surfaces appear lustrous silvery-gray, लकिन oxidize in normal एयर to give hydrated iron आक्साइड, commonly known as चढ़.
नापसंद अनेक other metals which रूप passivating ऑक्साइड layers, आयरन oxides occupy अधिक आवाज़ than आयरन metal, and यूँ आयरन आक्साइड फ्लेक off और expose भैस surfaces लिये संक्षारण.
आयरन metal has महरूम used चूंकि प्राचीन times, though तांबे alloys, which have lower melting temperatures, were used पहला in इतिहास.
pure iron is soft ( softer than एल्युमिनियम ), लकिन is unobtainable by smelting.
the सामग्री is significantly hardened और strengthened by impurities from the smelting प्रक्रम, ऐसे as कार्बन.
A निश्चित proportion of carbon ( between 0.002 % और 2.1 % ) produces स्टील, which may be up to 1000 टाइम्स harder than pure iron.
crude iron metal is produced in धमाका furnaces, जहाँ अयस्क is घटाया by coke to सुअर आयरन, जिससे has a high carbon content.
further refinement साथ ऑक्सीजन reduces the carbon content to the सही proportion to मेक स्टील.
Steels और कम कार्बन iron alloys with other metals ( alloy steels ) are by दूर the most common metals in industrial उपयोग, due to their ग्रेट दायरा of desirable properties और the प्रचुरता of आयरन.
Iron रासायनिक compounds, जिससे शामिल अमिश्रित और ferric यौगिकों, have many uses.
आयरन ऑक्साइड मिश्रित with एल्युमिनियम चूर्ण can be ignited to बनाएँ a थर्माइट reaction, प्रयुक्त in welding and purifying ores.
It फ़ॉर्म शब्दकोष यौगिकों with the हैलोजन्स और the chalcogens.
among its कार्बधातुक यौगिकों is ferrocene, the पहला sandwich यौगिक discovered.
आयरन plays an महत्वपूर्ण role in जीवविज्ञान, forming देवालय with molecular oxygen in हीमोग्लोबिन और myoglobin ; ये दो यौगिकों are आम oxygen हस्तांतरण proteins in vertebrates.
Iron is भी the metal used at the active site of many महत्वपूर्ण redox एंजाइमों dealing with cellular respiration and ऑक्सीकरण and reduction in plants and animals.
The Blue Cross Blue Shield संघ ( BCBSA ) is a संघ of 38 पृथक स्वास्थ्य बीमे organizations और कंपनियाँ in the United States.
Combined, they सीधे or indirectly provide health बीमे to over 99 लाख अमेरिकी.
The इतिहास of ब्लू Cross dates back to 1929, while the इतिहास of ब्लू Shield तिथियाँ to 1939.
The Blue क्रॉस संघ dates back to 1960, जबकि its ब्लू शील्ड बंटवारा was निर्मित in 1948.
the two organizations merged in 1982, forming the current संघ.
a potato chip ( ज्ञात as a चिप in American, Australian, नई Zealand, कनाडाई, Singaporean, Hong Kong, दक्षिण African and jamaican English ; as a कुरकुरे in British English और hiberno-english, और as either a चिप or wafer in भारतीय अंग्रेज़ी ) is a पतला slice of आलू that is deep fried or baked until crunchy.
Potato chips are commonly served as an appetizer, पक्ष dish, or snack.
The basic चिप्स हैं cooked और salted ; अतिरिक्त varieties are manufactured using विभिन्न flavorings और ingredients including seasonings, herbs, मसाले, cheeses, and कृत्रिम एडिटिव.
`` Crisps '', however, may भी refer to many different प्रकार of savory स्नैक products sold in the संयुक्त Kingdom and आयरलैंड, कुछ बना from आलू, but may भी be बना from maize, tapioca or अन्य cereals.
An example of these kinds of savory स्नैक्स is दानव चबाना.
आलू चिप्स are a predominant part of the snack खाना मार्केट in english-speaking countries और numerous अन्य Western nations.
The global potato chip मार्केट उत्पन्न total revenues of US $ 16.4 billion in 2005.
इस accounted for 35.5 % of the total savory स्नैक्स market in कि साल ( us $ 46.1 अरब ).
हेनरी Clay, Sr. ( अप्रैल 12, 1777 – June 29, 1852 ) थी a lawyer, राजनेता और skilled orator जो represented केंटकी in both the सीनेट और in the House of Representatives.
He served तीन different terms as Speaker of the संयुक्त राज्य House of Representatives और थी भी सचिव of State from 1825 to 1829.
he lost his campaigns for अध्यक्ष in 1824, 1832 and 1844.
मिट्टी थी a प्रबल figure in both the पहला and दूसरी Party प्रणालियों.
As a leading war हॉक in 1812, he favored war साथ Britain और played a significant role in अग्रणी the स्वदेश to युद्ध in the War of 1812.
in 1824 he ran लिये अध्यक्ष and lost, but फेंका his electoral votes to जॉन क्विंसी एडम्स, who made him सचिव of state as the jacksonians denounced कया वे considered a `` भ्रष्ट सौदेबाजी. ''
He भागा and खोया again in 1832 and 1844 as the candidate of the Whig पार्टी, जिससे he founded and प्रायः dominated.
मिट्टी was the foremost proponent of the American प्रणाली, fighting लिये an increase in tariffs to foster industry in the United राज्य, the उपयोग of federal funding to build and maintain infrastructure, और a strong नेशनल bank.
He opposed the annexation of Texas, fearing it होता इंजेक्ट the गुलामी समस्या into politics.
मिट्टी also opposed the mexican-american युद्ध और the `` Manifest नियति `` policy of डेमोक्रेट, which लागत him मत in the close 1844 election.
Dubbed the `` Great pacificator, '' मिट्टी brokered important compromises during the nullification संकट and on the slavery issue.
as भाग of the `` Great Triumvirate `` or `` अमर Trio, '' साथ with उसके सहयोगियों Daniel वेबस्टर और John C. calhoun, he थी इंस्ट्रूमेंटल in formulating the Missouri सुलह of 1820 and the सुलह of 1850.
he थी viewed as the primary प्रतिनिधि of Western रूचि in this समूह, and थी given the names `` हेनरी of the वेस्ट '' and `` The Western Star. ''
A वृक्षारोपण मालिक, Clay held स्लेव during उसके lifetime लकिन freed उन्हें in उसके Will.
Abraham Lincoln, the whig नेता in Illinois, was a ग्रेट admirer of मिट्टी, saying he थी `` my ideal of a great man. ''
Lincoln wholeheartedly supported मिट्टी 's आर्थिक programs.
in 1957, a सीनेट कमेटी चयनित मिट्टी as one of the five greatest U.S. सीनेटरों, साथ साथ डेनियल वेबस्टर, John C. calhoun, Robert la Follette, and Robert taft.
bj 's होलसेल क्लबों, Inc., commonly referred to बस as BJ 's, is a membership-only गोदाम क्लबों कड़ी operating on the संयुक्त राज्य ईस्ट Coast, as well as in the state of Ohio.
the कम्पनी is क्रमित # 232 on Fortune पत्रिका 's 2010 listing of अमेरिका 's 500 largest public corporations.
the जादूगर of Oz, ज्ञात दौरान his शासनकाल as the ग्रेट and शक्तिशाली Oz, is the epithet of ऑस्कर zoroaster phadrig Isaac नॉर्मन henkel emmannuel Ambroise Diggs, a fictional character in the Land of oz, निर्मित by American author L. फ़्रैंक baum.
the character was further popularized by the क्लासिक 1939 movie, wherein his पूरा name is नहीं उल्लेखित.
Kristinia Jamie debarge ( ; born March 8, 1990 ) is an अमरीकी singer, songwriter, नर्तकी and अभिनेत्री.
वो पहला appeared on national television in 2003 as a प्रतियोगी on the American आइडल spin-off, American Juniors.
In 2009, debarge हस्ताक्षरित a contract with the द्वीप रिकॉर्ड department Sodapop, releasing her डेब्यू album Exposed in July of the वही year.
the पहला सिंगल, `` Goodbye ``, पहुँचे the top 20 in the us and Canada.
the lead सिंगल ( `` Cry Wolf '' ) from उसके untitled sophomore एल्बम थी released on September 27, 2012.
The हवाई योद्धाओं football team represents the University of hawaiʻi at Mānoa in ncaa Division I FBS college football.
The टोली is coached by Norm Chow.
it थी भाग of the पश्चिमी Athletic Conference until जुलाई 2012, जब the team joined the Mountain वेस्ट सम्मेलन.
The Hawaii Warriors were the third non-aq टोली to खेल in a bcs bowl खेल ; losing to जॉर्जिया 41–10 in the शुगर कटोरी on January 1, 2008 in New Orleans, Louisiana.
मारविन Gaye ( अप्रैल 2, 1939april 1, 1984 ), born Marvin pentz Gay, jr., थी an American singer-songwriter और musician.
gaye helped to shape the ध्वनि of Motown रिकॉर्ड in the 1960s with a string of हिट्स सहित `` कैसा Sweet it is ( to be Loved by You ) `` and `` i सुना it through the grapevine `` और duet recordings साथ Mary कुएं और Tammi terrell, बाद earning the शीर्षक `` प्रिंस of motown '' and `` Prince of Soul ''.
दौरान the 1970s, Gaye अंकित the concept एल्बम कया 's Going On और Let 's मिलेंगी It On और became among the first artists in motown to ब्रेक away from the reins of इसके production company.
gaye 's बाद रिकार्डिंग influenced several r & B subgenres such as शांत storm and neo-soul.
Following a period in यूरोपीय अंतर्गत a कर निर्वासन in the जल्दी 1980s, Gaye released the 1982 ग्रैमी Award-winning hit `` Sexual healing `` और the मध्यरात्रि प्रेम एल्बम.
Since उसके death in 1984, gaye रै महरूम मरणोपरांत honored by अनेक संस्थानों, including the ग्रैमी आजीवन उपलब्धि पुरस्कार और the Rock और Roll हॉल of कीर्ति.
स्थान of Chernobyl नाभिकीय power संयंत्र
The abandoned नगर of pripyat साथ Chernobyl संयंत्र in the अलहदा
abandoned housing blocks in Pripyat
The chernobyl disaster (, Chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) थी a catastrophic नाभिकीय accident that occurred on 26 अप्रैल 1986 at the Chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in Ukraine ( तब officially the यूक्रेनी ssr ), जिससे was under the सीधा jurisdiction of the सेंट्रल अधिकारियों of the Soviet Union.
an विस्फोट and fire released विशाल quantities of रेडियोसक्रिय particles into the atmosphere, जिससे स्प्रेड over much of the western ussr और यूरोपीय.
the chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the worst नाभिकीय शक्ति plant accident in इतिहास, और is एक of तभी two classified as a स्तर 7 event on the अंतरराष्ट्रीय नाभिकीय Event Scale ( the अन्य होने the Fukushima Daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति in 2011 ).
the बैटल to contain the contamination और avert a वृहद प्रलय ultimately involved over 500,000 workers और लागत an अनुमानित 18 अरब rubles.
the आधिकारिक सोवियत casualty गिनती of 31 deaths रै been disputed, और long-term प्रभाव ऐसे as cancers and deformities हैं still being accounted for.
mrs. क्लॉस says goodbye to her husband as he सेट off on his journey in this 1919 postcard
mrs. Claus is the बीवी of सांता Claus, the Christmas gift-bringer in North American and European क्रिसमस tradition.
वो is ज्ञात लिये making कुकीज़ साथ the elves and preparing खिलौने साथ उसके husband Santa Claus.
Her पहला name is a रहस्य, हालांकि she has been referred to as मरियम, जेसिका, layla, annette, Heidi, or मार्था.
HijackThis ( भी hijackthis or HJT ) is an खोलें source enumerating औजार लिये microsoft Windows originally created by merijn Bellekom, और बाद sold to ट्रेंड सूक्ष्म.
the program is notable for लक्ष्यीकरण browser-hijacking methods, rather than relying on a database of known spyware.
It scans a user 's computer quickly, and प्रदर्शक browser hijacking locations, showing what प्रविष्टियां हैं वहीँ.
hijackthis is used primarily for diagnosis of browser hijacking, as uninformed use of इसके removal facilities can cause significant तन्त्र क्षति to a computer.
HijackThis करता नहीं हटाएँ or detect स्पाइवेयर ; it सूचियाँ सबसे आम locations जहाँ browser hijacking कार्यकलाप can occur.
ब्राउजर hijacking can कारण मैलवेयर to be संस्थापित on a कंप्यूटर.
on फ़रवरी 16, 2012, Trend सूक्ष्म released the hijackthis source code as खोलें source और it is अभी available on the SourceForge site.
काठी Creek रिकॉर्ड is an अमरीकी रिकार्ड लेबल आधारित in Omaha, Nebraska.
Started as a college क्लास project on उद्यमिता, the label थी संस्थापित by Mike Mogis और जस्टिन oberst in 1993 ( as lumberjack Records ).
Mogis जल्द turned over his role in the कम्पनी to robb Nansel.
The लेबल is named बाद काठी क्रीक सड़क, a गली that cuts through the ईस्ट पक्ष of midtown ओमाहा, and the beginnings of a scene जिनकी members included conor Oberst ( then a solo कलाकार, फिलहाल of उज्जवल Eyes, conor Oberst और the Mystic Valley बैंड, desaparecidos and Monsters of लोक ), Tim Kasher ( then of Slowdown वर्जिनिया, फिलहाल of Cursive और The Good जीवन ), and अन्य.
Collectively, they यहूद known unofficially as the `` creekers ''.
Saddle क्रीक पहला appeared in print on a show flyer, offering to `` खर्च an संध्या with Saddle Creek '' ( बाद to be the शीर्षक of the label 's DVD. )
Saddle क्रीक became an incorporated entity as a result of a क्लास प्रोजेक्ट on entrepreneurship.
वितरण is handled by the वैकल्पिक वितरण Alliance, जिससे is अंतर्गत the warner म्यूज़िक Group umbrella.
काठी क्रीक Records continues to be the flagship label of a स्टाइल of म्यूज़िक पुकारा `` the Omaha ध्वनि ``, characterized by a पतला देश twang.
This is increasingly inaccurate, हालांकि, with the rise of अधिक electronic sounds ऐसे as those favored by The Faint और Broken Spindles.
The eclectic sounds of Saddle क्रीक 's disparate member bands is somewhat explained by उनके इतिहास ; a number of the original सदस्यों of the लेबल attended grade स्कूल together.
A `` सिस्टर label '', of sorts, to काठी Creek is Team Love, प्रारंभ by Conor oberst in 2004.
the लेबल opened बाहें to उनके पहला bands not based in Omaha in 2001 साथ रिलीज by अभी It 's ओवरहेड और sorry परिचय Dresden.
अन्य non-Nebraskan artists followed, including लॉस Angeles 's rilo Kiley, Eric Bachmann ( formerly leader of archers of loaf और कुटिल उंगलियाँ from North कैरोलिना ), Georgie James ( वॉशिंगटन d.C. ), Two gallants ( San फ्रांसिस्को ), and most recently टोकियो पुलिस Club ( Toronto ).
In 2005, खर्च an Evening साथ काठी क्रीक, a documentary detailing the पहला ten सालो of the रिकार्ड लेबल 's इतिहास, थी released.
the DVD सुविधाएँ extensive साक्षात्कार with the काठी क्रीक bands, archival footage, और rare live performances.
On जून 8, 2007, the label opened उनके अपना म्यूज़िक स्थान named Slowdown ( after the group Slowdown वर्जिनिया ), स्तिथ in downtown ओमाहा, नेब्रास्का.
The following is a सूची of episodes लिये the टेलीविज़न show पूरा House.
In total, वहीँ यहूद 192 एपीसोड फिल्माया लिये the show over the कोर्स of इसके आठ seasons, from 1987 to 1995.
पूरा हाउस is a situation comedy जिससे chronicles a widowed father 's struggles of उठाने उसके three यंग daughters और the जीवनदान that they have touched.
The patriarch of the परिवार, Danny ( bob Saget ), invites his brother-in-law Jesse ( जॉन Stamos ) और his बेहतरीन friend जॉय ( डेव coulier ), to help उठाएँ उसके children ( Candace cameron, jodie Sweetin, और मरियम Kate/Ashley olsen ), after उसके wife थी मारे during an ऑटोमोबाइल दुर्घटना involving a नशे ड्राइवर.
After एपीसोड 88 और 89, जेसी marries बेकी ( लोरी loughlin ), और they move into the attic.
तब, बाद एपीसोड 104 और 105, बेकी और जेसी have twin लड़कों named nicky और एलेक्स ( डेनियल और Kevin Renteria/Blake and Dylan Tuomy-Wilhoit ).
The श्रेणी ends with एपीसोड 192, `` मिशेल यात्राएँ Again Part 2 '', जब मिशेल loses her memory और the family tries to restore it.
Notice of स्टैम्प Act of 1765 in Newspaper
अमरीकी अखबारों reacted to the स्टैम्प Act with anger और पूर्वानुमान of the demise of journalism.
The स्टैम्प Act 1765 ( short शीर्षक Duties in American colonies अधिनियम 1765 ; 5 George III, c. 12 ) imposed a सीधा कर by the अंग्रेजों पार्लियामेंट specifically on the colonies of अंग्रेजों अमेरिका, और it required that अनेक printed materials in the colonies be उत्पादित on stamped पेपर produced in लंदन, carrying an embossed revenue stamp.
ये मुद्रित materials were विधिक documents, मैगज़ीन, newspapers and अनेक अन्य प्रकार of paper प्रयुक्त throughout the colonies.
जैसे पिछला taxes, the स्टैम्प कर था to be सशुल्क in मान्य British करेंसी, नहीं in colonial paper धन.
The purpose of the कर was to help pay लिये सैनिकों stationed in North अमेरिका बाद the अंग्रेजों victory in the सात Years ' War.
the British सरकारी felt that the colonies were the प्राथमिक beneficiaries of इस सैन्य उपस्थिति, and चाहिए pay at तनिक a portion of the expense.
The स्टैम्प अधिनियम मिले great प्रतिरोध in the colonies.
The colonies sent no representatives to Parliament, और इसलिए had no influence over what कर were उठाया, कैसा वे were levied, or how they would be spent.
Many colonists माना it a उल्लंघन of their rights as अंग्रेजो to be taxed without उनके consent —consent that तभी the औपनिवेशिक legislatures could ग्रान्ट.
औपनिवेशिक assemblies भेजा petitions and विरोध.
the Stamp Act Congress आयोजित in New York City, reflecting the पहला significant joint औपनिवेशिक response to any अंग्रेजों माप, भी petitioned Parliament and the किंग.
Local विरोध groups, led by colonial merchants और landowners, स्थापित connections through पत्राचार that created a loose coalition that extended इससे New इंग्लैण्ड to Georgia.
Protests and demonstrations initiated by the Sons of स्वतंत्रता प्रायः turned violent and destructive as the masses became शामिल.
बहुत जल्द सब स्टैम्प tax distributors were सहमे into resigning their commissions, और the कर थी never effectively एकत्रित.
विपक्ष to the स्टैम्प अधिनियम was not सीमित to the colonies.
British merchants और manufacturers, whose निर्यात to the colonies यहूद threatened by औपनिवेशिक economic समस्याएं exacerbated by the कर, also pressured पार्लियामेंट.
the अधिनियम थी repealed on कूच 18, 1766 as a पदार्थ of expedience, लकिन Parliament affirmed इसके शक्ति to legislate लिये the colonies “in सब cases whatsoever” by भी गुजर the Declaratory Act.
वहीँ followed a series of new कर और regulations, likewise opposed by the colonists.
The episode played a प्रमुख भूमिका in धमक the grievances और enabling the व्यवस्थित औपनिवेशिक resistance कि led to the American Revolution in 1775.
PT-105 underway.
PT नौकाएँ were a variety of torpedo-armed fast आक्रमण शिल्प used by the संयुक्त राज्य नेवी in संसार War ii to आक्रमण larger surface ships.
`` PT '' is the us hull classification symbol लिये `` पैट्रोल Torpedo ''.
The pt नाव squadrons were nicknamed `` the mosquito बेड़े ''.
The जापानी पुकारा them `` Devil नौकाएँ ''.
the original pre– World War I torpedo boats यहूद designed with `` displacement '' hulls.
वे विस्थापित up to 300 tons और the शीर्ष गति थी.
The pt boats used in संसार युद्ध II were built using the planing -type हल रूप विकसित लिये रेसिंग नौकाएँ.
They were much छोटी ( 30–75 tons ) और तेज़ ( 35–40 knots ).
दोनो प्रकार यहूद designed to strike at larger warships साथ torpedoes, using relatively ऊँची speed to मिलेंगी close, and छोटी आकार to avoid being spotted और hit by gunfire.
वे यहूद much कम expensive than विशाल warships.
pt boats यहूद much तेज़, छोटी, and सस्ता than conventional ( विस्थापन hull ) vessels.
दौरान World War II, American PT boats सगाई enemy destroyers और numerous other सतह शिल्प, ranging इससे small नौकाएँ to large सप्लाई ships.
pt नौकाएँ also संचालित as gunboats विरूद्ध enemy छोटी शिल्प, such as कराया barges used by the जापानी forces for inter-island हस्तांतरण.
शुभ Friday is a धार्मिक holiday observed primarily by ईसाइयों commemorating the crucifixion of Jesus Christ और his मौत at Calvary.
The holiday is observed दौरान पावन सप्ताह as part of the paschal Triduum on the शुक्रवार preceding Easter Sunday, and may coincide with the यहूदी observance of passover.
It is also ज्ञात as पावन Friday, Great Friday, Black शुक्रवार, or ईस्टर शुक्रवार, हालांकि the latter properly refers to the Friday in Easter week.
Based on the विवरण of the canonical gospels, the Crucifixion of Jesus थी सबसे संभावित to have महरूम on a Friday ( the day पहले the sabbath ) ( ).
the estimated year of the Crucifixion is ad 33, by दो different groups, and originally as ad 34 by इसहाक़ न्यूटन via the मतभेद between the biblical और Julian calendars and the crescent of the चंद्रमा.
a third विधि, using a completely अलग खगोलीय approach based on a lunar crucifixion अंधेरा and ग्रहण मॉडल ( सतत with apostle Peter 's सन्दर्भ to a `` moon of रक्त '' in Acts 2:20 ), points to शुक्रवार, 3 April AD 33.
The Great जलाशय is the largest area of endorheic watersheds in North America.
It is noted for दोनो its arid शर्तें और its जलाशय and range स्थलाकृति कि varies from the उत्तर अमरीकी कम point at Badwater Basin to the highest पाइंट of the contiguous संयुक्त राज्य, less than दूर at the summit of माउंट व्हिटनी.
the प्रदेश spans अनेक physiographic divisions, biomes / ecoregions, और रेगिस्तान.
रास्टर may refer to:
Raster ग्राफिक्स, graphical तकनीकों using arrays of पिक्सेल मान
रास्टर ग्राफिक्स editor, a कंप्यूटर program
Raster scan, the पैटर्न of चित्र readout, हस्तांतरण, storage, और पुनर्निर्माण in television और कंप्यूटर images
rasterisation, or rasterization, conversion of a वेक्टर image to a रास्टर चित्र
Raster चित्र processor, or rip, a component of a printing system कि performs rasterisation
रास्टर interrupt, a computer इन्टरनेट सिग्नल
Raster to वेक्टर, an चित्र conversion process
रास्टर बार, an effect used in कंप्यूटर demos
Raster-Noton, a रिकार्ड लेबल
Rastrum, a यंत्र प्रयुक्त in मध्यकालीन music manuscripts to draw स्टाफ lines
रास्टर Document ऑब्जेक्ट, a संचिका format
बियोवुल्फ़ ( ; Old English : ) is a legendary Geatish नायिका and later turned king in the एपिक कविता नामित बाद उसे, one of the oldest surviving pieces of साहित्य in the अंग्रेज़ी भाषा.
The आक्रमण on पर्ल Harbor ( called हवाई आपरेशन or आपरेशन ai by the Japanese इम्पीरियल सामान्य मुख्यालय ( आपरेशन z in नियोजन ) and the Battle of Pearl हार्बर ) was a surprise सैन्य strike conducted by the इम्पीरियल Japanese नेवी against the संयुक्त States naval base at पर्ल Harbor, Hawaii, on the morning of दिसम्बर 7, 1941 ( दिसम्बर 8 in जापानी ).
इससे the standpoint of the defenders, the attack commenced at 7:48 a.m. हवाई Time.
The attack थी intended as a preventive कार्रवाई in order to रखना the u.S. प्रशांत Fleet from दखल with सैन्य क्रियाएँ the Empire of जापानी थी planning in southeast Asia विरूद्ध विदेशी territories of the संयुक्त Kingdom, the Netherlands, और the संयुक्त States.
the base was attacked by 353 जापानी fighters, bombers and torpedo planes in दो लहरें, शुभारम्भ from six aircraft carriers.
सब आठ u.S. नेवी battleships were क्षतिग्रस्त, साथ four being sunk.
दो of ये यहूद बाद raised, और साथ the बाकी four repaired, six battleships returned to सेवा later in the war.
The Japanese भी sank or damaged three cruisers, तीन destroyers, an anti-aircraft training ship, और one minelayer.
188 u.S. aircraft यहूद नष्ट ; 2,402 अमेरिकी were killed और 1,282 wounded.
Important आधार संस्थापना such as the power station, डॉकयार्ड, मेंटेनेंस, और fuel and torpedo storage facilities, as well as the submarine पियर और headquarters building ( भी home of the intelligence section ) were नहीं attacked.
Japanese नुकसान were लाइट : 29 वायुयान and पाँच midget submarines खोया, और 65 servicemen killed or wounded.
One Japanese sailor was captured.
The आक्रमण आए as a profound shock to the American लोगों and led सीधे to the अमरीकी प्रविष्टि into संसार युद्ध ii in दोनो the Pacific और यूरोपीय थिएटर.
The following day ( दिसम्बर 8 ), the संयुक्त States घोषित war on जापानी.
घरेलू support लिये non-interventionism, जिससे था been दमदार, disappeared.
Clandestine support of ब्रिटेन ( for example the Neutrality पैट्रोल ) was replaced by क्रियाशील गठबंधन.
Subsequent operations by the U.S. prompted जर्मनी और इटली to घोषित war on the u.S. on दिसम्बर 11, which was reciprocated by the U.S. the वही day.
There were numerous historical precedents लिये unannounced military action by जापानी.
However, the कमी of any औपचारिक warning, particularly while negotiations यहूद still जाहिर ongoing, led President Franklin D. रूज़वेल्ट to proclaim दिसम्बर 7, 1941, `` a तिथि which होगा live in infamy ``.
U.S. रूट 85 ( US 85 ) is a north–south United राज्य highway कि रनों लिये in the Mountain - Northern मैदान states of the संयुक्त राज्य.
the दक्षिणी टर्मिनस of the route is at the United States-Mexico किनारा in el पासो, Texas, connecting साथ Mexican संघीय Highway 45.
the उत्तरी टर्मिनस is at the United states-canada किनारा in Fortuna, उत्तर Dakota, जहाँ the route continues north as saskatchewan राजमार्ग 35.
in दोनो the संयुक्त States और saskatchewan, कनाडा the route is known as the canam राजमार्ग.
Sections of us 85 are considered part of the Theodore Roosevelt एक्सप्रेसवे.
the संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्षीय election of 1968 was the 46th quadrennial presidential election, held on मंगलवार, November 5, 1968.
the Republican nominee, former vice-president Richard Nixon, जीती the चुनाव over the लोकतांत्रिक nominee, लाज़िम vice-president ह्यूबर्ट humphrey.
Nixon भागा on a अभियान कि promised to restore law और order to the स्वदेश 's शहरों, torn by riots और crime.
Analysts have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning चुनाव as it permanently disrupted the नई सौदे Coalition कि had वर्चस्व presidential राजनीती for 36 years.
coming four years बाद Democrat lyndon B. जॉनसन जीती in a ऐतिहासिक landslide, the चुनाव saw the लाज़िम president forced out of the रेस and a रिपब्लिकन निर्वाचित लिये the पहला समय in बारह सालो.
it was a विदारक national experience, conducted दौरान a year of हिंसा कि included the assassination of सिविल rights leader Martin Luther King, jr., और subsequent रेस दंगे आरपार the nation, the assasination of Democratic presidential candidate रॉबर्ट F. Kennedy, widespread विपक्ष to the वियतनाम War आरपार विश्वविद्यालयों campuses, और violent confrontations between पुलिस और anti-war protesters at the 1968 Democratic नेशनल सम्मेलन as the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी विभाजित again and again.
The election featured the strongest third पार्टी effort since 1912 by former Alabama राज्यपाल जार्ज Wallace, a डेमोक्रेट.
Because Wallace 's अभियान opposed संघीय intervention in the दक्षिण to समाप्त school पृथक्करण, he carried the गहन दक्षिण और भागा well in जातीय औद्योगिक districts in the North.
इस थी the last चुनाव in which नई यॉर्क था the most votes in the चुनावी college ( 43 votes ).
बाद the 1970 जनसांख्यिकी, California gained the सबसे चुनावी मत और रै remained the सबसे populous राज्य since then.
This is the latest election where a presidential ticket won without carrying the वाइस अध्यक्षीय candidate 's घर state.
खिड़कियाँ कार्य Manager is a कार्य manager or System monitor application included with the Microsoft Windows nt family of ऑपरेटिंग systems कि provides limited सूचना परिचय computer प्रदर्शन और running अनुप्रयोग, processes and CPU usage, कमिट charge and मेमोरी सूचना, संजाल कार्यकलाप और statistics, logged-in users, and system सेवाएं ( and as प्रायः is the मामला with तन्त्र tools provided by microsoft लिये खिड़कियाँ, 3rd पार्टी तन्त्र is उपलब्धियाँ जिससे भरता the requirements more thoroughly, e.g, `` प्रक्रम एक्सप्लोरर '', `` Extended कार्य Manager '', `` Anvir कार्य मैनेजर '', `` प्रक्रम हैकर '', और `` प्रणाली एक्सप्लोरर '' ).
The कार्य मैनेजर can भी be प्रयुक्त to set process प्राथमिकताएं, processor affinity, forcibly terminate processes, and shut down, restart, hibernate or log off इससे खिड़कियाँ.
Windows कार्य Manager थी introduced with खिड़कियाँ NT 4.0.
पिछला versions of खिड़कियाँ NT शामिल the Task सूची application, जिससे था दूर कम सुविधाएँ.
The task सूची थी सक्षम of listing फिलहाल कार्यशील processes and killing them, or creating a new प्रक्रम.
in Windows xp तभी, a shutdown मेनू is भी उपस्थित that allows access to standby, hibernate, फेरे off, Restart, log Off and स्विच उपयोक्ता.
पहले संस्करण of microsoft Windows ( microsoft Windows 3.x, Windows 95, खिड़कियाँ 98 ) had a program ज्ञात as tasks to प्रदर्शक the कार्यक्रम फिलहाल running.
This file was चलाया by कार्यशील the taskman.exe file इससे the c : \खिड़कीs निर्देशिका.
Kanji ( ; ) हैं the अपनाया logographic Chinese characters ( hanzi ) that हैं प्रयुक्त in the modern जापानी writing system साथ साथ hiragana ( ひらがな, ), katakana ( カタカナ, ), hindu-arabic numerals, and the occasional use of the Latin वर्णमाला.
The जापानी पद kanji ( ) for the चाइनीज वर्ण वस्तुतः अर्थात् `` हान characters '' और is written using the वही वर्ण as the चाइनीज hanzi ( ).
जॉन R विलियम्स ( may 4, 1782 – अक्तूबर 20, 1854 ) थी an अमरीकी सिपाही, merchant, and राजनेता who is most खूब ज्ञात for serving as the first महापौर of Detroit, मिशिगन.
in कुल, he served as डेट्रॉयट 's महापौर लिये five अन्य शर्तें.
He also was a brigadier general in the संयुक्त States Army दौरान the ब्लैक हॉक War.
A सरल dry magnetic portable कम्पास.
a स्मार्टफोन that can be used as a कम्पास क्युकी of the magnetometer inside.
An iphone that can be used as a geological compass क्युकी of the 3-axis teslameter और 3-axis accelerometer अंदर it
a सैन्य कम्पास कि थी प्रयुक्त दौरान World War i.
A कम्पास is a navigational instrument that shows directions in a फ़्रेम of सन्दर्भ that is stationary सापेक्ष to the सतह of the earth.
The frame of सन्दर्भ defines the four cardinal directions ( or points ) – north, south, east, और west.
इंटरमीडिएट दिशानिर्देश are भी पारिभाषित.
प्रायः, a diagram पुकारा a कम्पास rose, which shows the दिशानिर्देश ( with their names प्रायः abbreviated to आद्याक्षर ), is चिह्नित on the compass.
जब the कम्पास is in उपयोग, the rose is aligned with the रियल directions in the frame of reference, so, लिये उदाहरण, the `` N '' चिह्नित on the रोज़ वाकई points to the north.
अक्सर, in addition to the rose or sometimes instead of it, angle markings in degrees are दिखाया on the compass.
North corresponds to शून्य degrees, और the angles increase clockwise, so ईस्ट is 90 degrees, दक्षिण is 180, and वेस्ट is 270.
These numbers allow the compass to दिखाएँ azimuths or bearings, which हैं commonly stated in इस संकेतन.
the चुम्बकीय कम्पास थी पहला invented as a device for divination as early as the Chinese Han Dynasty ( Since परिचय 206 BC ).
The कम्पास was प्रयुक्त in Song राजवंश China by the military for navigational orienteering by 1040-1044, and थी प्रयुक्त लिये मेरीटाइम navigation by 1111 to 1117.
The use of a compass is recorded in Western यूरोपीय between 1187 and 1202, और in फारस in 1232.
The शुष्क compass थी invented in यूरोपीय around 1300.
This was supplanted in the early 20th सदी by the liquid-filled magnetic कम्पास.
the Inca साम्राज्य or inka Empire ( quechua : tawantinsuyu ) was the largest साम्राज्य in pre-Columbian America.
The प्रशासनिक, political और सैन्य बीच of the empire was located in कुज़्को in modern-day पेरू.
the Inca civilization arose इससे the हाइलैंड्स of Peru sometime in the early 13th सदी.
इससे 1438 to 1533, the Incas used a किस्में of methods, from conquest to peaceful assimilation, to चरितार्थ a large portion of western South America, centered on the Andean mountain सीमाएँ, including, besides पेरू, विशाल parts of modern Ecuador, western और south सेंट्रल बोलीविया, northwest अर्जेंटीना, उत्तर और सेंट्रल Chile, and दक्षिणी Colombia into a state comparable to the ऐतिहासिक empires of यूरेशिया.
the official भाषा of the empire was Quechua, हालांकि सैंकड़ों of local languages and dialects of quechua यहूद बोला.
The Inca referred to उनके साम्राज्य as tawantinsuyu which can be अनूदित as the चार Regions or the चार संयुक्त प्रांतों.
There यहूद अनेक लोकल forms of इबादत, most of them concerning लोकल पवित्र `` Huacas ``, लकिन the इन्का नेतृत्व encouraged the worship of Inti —the sun god—and imposed इसके प्रभुता ऊपर other cults such as कि of pachamama.
the incas considered their King, the Sapa Inca, to be the `` चाइल्ड of the sun. ''
the गुर्दे हैं organs that serve several अनिवार्य नियामक roles in सबसे पशु, सहित vertebrates और कुछ invertebrates.
वे are अनिवार्य in the urinary system और also serve homeostatic functions such as the विनियमन of electrolytes, maintenance of acid–base balance, और regulation of रक्त pressure ( via maintaining नमक and water संतुलन ).
वे serve the body as a natural फिल्टर of the blood, और remove wastes which हैं diverted to the urinary bladder.
In producing urine, the गुर्दे excrete wastes ऐसे as urea and ammonium, और वे are also जिम्मेदार लिये the reabsorption of जल, ग्लूकोज, and amino acids.
the kidneys also उपज hormones including calcitriol, erythropoietin, and the एंजाइम renin.
Located at the rear of the abdominal गुहा in the retroperitoneum, the गुर्दे प्राप्त blood from the paired renal arteries, and नाली into the paired renal रगों.
प्रत्येक गुर्दा excretes मूत्र into a ureter, itself a paired structure कि empties into the urinary bladder.
renal physiology is the study of गुर्दा function, जबकि nephrology is the चिकित्सा specialty चिंतित with kidney diseases.
Diseases of the गुर्दा हैं विविध, लकिन individuals साथ kidney बीमारी अक्सर display characteristic clinical features.
Common clinical conditions involving the गुर्दा include the nephritic and nephrotic syndromes, renal cysts, अधि kidney चोट, दीर्घकालिक गुर्दा बीमारी, urinary tract संक्रमण, nephrolithiasis, and urinary tract obstruction.
Various cancers of the गुर्दा exist ; the सबसे आम वयस्क renal कर्कट is renal cell कार्सिनोमा.
cancers, cysts, and some other renal conditions can be प्रबंधित with removal of the kidney, or nephrectomy.
When renal फलन, measured by glomerular filtration rate, is persistently poor, dialysis and kidney प्रत्यारोपण may be treatment विकल्प.
हालांकि वे हैं नहीं severely नुकसानदेह, kidney stones can be painful और a nuisance.
The removal of kidney stones involves अल्ट्रासाउंड उपचार to break up the पत्थरों into smaller टुकड़े, जिससे are तब passed through the urinary ट्रैक्ट.
One आम लक्षण of kidney stones is a sharp पीड़ा in the medial/lateral खण्ड of the lower back.
lockton Companies inc. is the world 's largest privately held बीमे brokerage firm, providing बीमे, रिस्क management and कर्मचारी लाभ solutions.
In addition to इसके Kansas City, Missouri मुख्यालय, lockton operates 60 locations in 17 देशों.
lockton is फिलहाल home to अधिक than 4,450 शरीक विश्वव्यापी.
The company was संस्थापित by जोकर Lockton in 1966 and has चूंकि become the world’s 9th largest बीमे brokerage कड़.
Lockton serves a चौड़ी सरणी of उद्योग with services कि शामिल रिस्क management, casualty, surety, professional indemnity and more.
लिये 46 सालो, lockton posted असाधारण सशुल्क विकास, with global revenues reaching $ 915 लाख in fiscal 2012.
Lockton लाभ Group : lockton’s Employee benefit’s team works closely with बीमे carriers और प्रशासकों to बनाएँ comprehensive और एकीकृत लाभ strategies लिये क्लाइंट.
the Lockton लाभ समूह provides सेवाएं सहित compliance, executive benefits, स्वास्थ्य and welfare, health risk solutions, रिटायरमेंट और अधिक.
Lockton अपनापन : lockton Affinity, an संबद्ध of lockton कंपनियाँ, meets the insurance needs of affinity समूह, franchises, professional संगठन, and associations of all आकार.
lockton अपनापन offers a किस्में of बीमे उत्पाद options और programs.
Products include : सामान्य देयता, पेशेवर Liability, प्रॉपर्टी, Workers मुआवजे, निर्देशकों & अधिकारियों Liability, वाणिज्यिक Auto, specialty Coverage, excess, Health Plans and more.
lockton अंतरराष्ट्रीय : Lockton International operates कार्यालयों in the uk and Ireland, as well as कार्यालयों throughout Asia and Latin अमेरिका.
In यूरोपीय, Lockton International is a partner in eos risq, Europe’s leading बीमे ब्रोकिंग और रिस्क management कंसल्टेंसी.
EOS risq is an equity-based European साझेदारी of major स्वतंत्र बीमे brokers with over 3,500 कर्मचारी आधारित in more than 30 देशों in यूरोपीय.
lockton International provides specialized समाधान लिये निजी लाइनों, SME’s और प्रमुख multi-national clients.
श्वेत chocolate is a चॉकलेट derivative.
it commonly consists of cocoa मक्खन, शुगर, milk solids and नमक, और is characterized by a पाले पीला or ivory appearance.
The melting point of cocoa butter, इसके primary cocoa सेम component, is ऊँची पर्याप्त to रखना white chocolate ठोस at रूम temperature.
डोनाल्ड Leon `` Don '' Blankenship ( born March 14, 1950 ) was Chairman and सीईओ of massey उर्जा Co., the sixth largest कोयले company ( by 2008 production ) in the United राज्य.
he परोसा in those roles from नवम्बर 30, 2000, जबतक दिसम्बर 31, 2010.
blankenship is an active financial backer of the Republican पार्टी and भागीदार in लोकल और राज्य राजनीती, especially in उसके घर राज्य of वेस्ट वर्जिनिया.
He रै अक्सर spoken out publicly about राजनीती, the environment, संघ, and coal production.
u.S. प्रतिभूति और एक्सचेंज आयोग filings show blankenship थी सशुल्क $ 17.8 लाख in 2009, the highest in the कोयले उद्योग.
उसके 2009 अदा represents a $ 6.8 लाख उठाएँ over 2008 and लगभग दोगुना his compensation package in 2007.
blankenship भी received a deferred compensation पैकेज valued at $ 27.2 million in 2009.
On दिसम्बर 3, 2010, blankenship घोषित that he was retiring as CEO at the समाप्त of the साल, और होता be succeeded by massey President बैक्सटर F. phillips Jr.
Bow Wow is one of the transcriptions used in अंग्रेज़ी to describe a श्वान 's bark.
धनुष Wow may भी refer to:
धनुष Wow ( बैंड ), a Japanese मुश्किल rock/heavy metal बैंड
धनुष Wow ( rapper ), an अमरीकी rapper and कर्ता
धनुष Wow Sauce, a sauce developed in the cotswolds प्रदेश of इंग्लैण्ड
धनुष wow Wow, a UK new वेव बैंड
`` धनुष Wow '', a सोंग by The fiery furnaces इससे their 2003 एल्बम gallowsbird 's Bark
`` धनुष wow ब्लूज़ ( my मामा दावत me जैसे a श्वान ) '', a song रचित in the 1920s by चट्टान Friend & nat ओसबोर्न
लापरवाही ( Lat. negligentia, from neglegere, to उपेक्षा, literally `` not to चुनें up something '' ) is a विफलता to exercise the परवाह that a reasonably दूरदर्शी person होता exercise in like हालातों.
the क्षेत्रफल of tort law known as लापरवाही involves नुक़सान caused by carelessness, नहीं जानबूझकर नुक़सान.
According to Jay M. feinman of the rutgers University स्कूल of विधि ;
`` The कोर idea of negligence is that लोगों चाहिए कसरत reasonable परवाह when वे अधिनियम by taking account of the potential harm that वे might foreseeably cause नुक़सान to अन्य लोगों. ''
`` those who go personally or लाओ प्रॉपर्टी where वे जान that वे or it may आइये into टक्कर साथ the व्यक्तियों or प्रॉपर्टी of others have by law a duty डाल upon them to use उचित परवाह and skill to avoid such a collision. ''
Fletcher v Rylands ( [ 1866 ] lr 1 ex 265 )
Through civil वाद, if an घायल व्यक्ति proves that another व्यक्ति acted negligently to cause their injury, they can recover damages to compensate for their नुक़सान.
Proving a मामला लिये लापरवाही can potentially entitle the घायल plaintiff to compensation लिये नुक़सान to उनके देह, प्रॉपर्टी, दिमागी well-being, financial status, or अंतरंग संबंध.
however, क्युकी लापरवाही मामले are बहुत fact-specific, this सामान्य परिभाषा does not fully बताइये the concept of when the law होगा आवश्यकता one person to compensate another for नुकसान caused by accidental चोट.
further, the law of negligence at common law is तभी one aspect of the विधि of liability.
Although resulting damages जरूर be सिद्ध in अनुक्रम to recover मुआवजे in a लापरवाही कार्रवाई, the nature और extent of those damages are नहीं the प्राथमिक focus of negligence cases.
A melanocytic nevus ( भी known as `` Nevocytic nevus '' ) is a type of lesion कि contains nevus cells ( a type of melanocyte ).
Some स्त्रोत equate the पद mole साथ `` melanocytic nevus ''.
Other sources reserve the term `` mole '' for other उद्देश्य.
The बहुमत of औज़ार appear दौरान the first two दशकों of a person’s life, जबकि about one in every 100 शिशु is born with moles.
acquired moles are a रूप of benign फुलाव, जबकि congenital moles, or जन्मजात nevi, हैं considered a minor malformation or hamartoma and may be at a उच्चतर रिस्क लिये melanoma.
A mole can be either subdermal ( under the स्किन ) or a pigmented growth on the स्किन, formed ज़्यादातर of a प्रकार of कोशिका known as a melanocyte.
the ऊँची concentration of the body’s pigmenting agent, melanin, is जिम्मेदार for उनके अंधेरा रंग.
Moles हैं a सदस्य of the परिवार of skin lesions known as nevi.
The व्यापक metabolic फलक, or chemical स्क्रीन, ( CMP ; CPT कोड 80053 ) is a panel of 14 रक्त परीक्षण which serves as an initial व्यापक medical स्क्रीनिंग tool.
The cmp provides a rough जाँच of गुर्दा फलन, liver फलन, and electrolyte and fluid संतुलन, लकिन it is दूर इससे perfect.
Abnormal values from a CBC may be a result of false positives और thus the cbc may need to be repeated लिये a patient ( or replaced with a अधिक विशिष्ट test ).
The cmp is an विस्तारित संस्करण of the मौलिक metabolic panel ( bmp ), which करता not include liver परीक्षण.
A CMP ( or bmp ) can be ordered as part of a दिनचर्या शारीरिक examination, or may be used to मॉनिटर a patient साथ a chronic disease, such as मधुमेह mellitus or hypertension.
पिछला names for the फलक of परीक्षण have been chem 12, रसायन फलक, Chemistry screen, SMA 12, SMA 20 and smac ( Sequential Multiple Analysis - कंप्यूटर ).
the परीक्षण are performed on machines आधारित on the autoanalyzer invented in 1957.
Natural gas निष्कर्षण by countries in घन meters प्रति year.
प्राकृतिक गैस is a naturally occurring hydrocarbon gas mixture consisting primarily of methane, but commonly सहित varying amounts of other hydrocarbons, कार्बन dioxide, nitrogen, and hydrogen sulfide.
Natural gas is an energy सोर्स often used लिये हीटिंग, कुकिंग, और electricity पीढी.
It is also used as fuel for vehicles और as a रासायनिक feedstock in the manufacture of प्लास्टिक and other commercially महत्वपूर्ण सशुल्क रसायन.
प्राकृतिक gas is मिला in deep भूमिगत प्राकृतिक rock formations or associated with अन्य hydrocarbon reservoirs in कोयले beds और as मिथेन clathrates.
पेट्रोलियम is also another संसाधन मिला in निकटता to and साथ natural गैस.
सबसे प्राकृतिक gas थी निर्मित over समय by two mechanisms : biogenic and thermogenic.
biogenic गैस is created by methanogenic organisms in marshes, bogs, landfills, and shallow sediments.
Deeper in the earth, at वृहद तापमान और pressure, thermogenic gas is created from दफ्न सशुल्क सामग्री.
Before natural गैस can be प्रयुक्त as a ईंधन, it जरूर undergo प्रसंस्करण to remove impurities, सहित जल, to मिलें the specifications of marketable natural gas.
The by-products of processing शामिल ethane, प्रोपेन, butanes, pentanes, और higher आणविक weight hydrocarbons, हाइड्रोजन sulfide ( जिससे may be परिवर्तित into pure गंधक ), कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड, water वाष्प, and sometimes helium और नाइट्रोजन.
प्राकृतिक गैस is प्रायः informally referred to बस as gas, especially जब compared to other उर्जा स्त्रोत such as oil or coal.
इस page is परिचय the Imagination मूवर्स बैंड.
लिये information about the tv show starring the बैंड, see Imagination मूवर्स ( tv श्रेणी ).
कल्पना मूवर्स is a band formed in New Orleans, louisiana, in 2003.
the लाइनअप includes Rich कॉलिन्स, Scott durbin, डेव Poche, and स्कॉट `` Smitty '' स्मिथ.
सदस्यों of the समूह were longtime friends और neighbors.
the समूह प्रारंभ as a television/music अवधारणा जिससे थी pitched to लोकल PBS affiliates in New Orleans.
WLAE-TV थी the पहला to take an interest in the group and later introduced them to बेथ Courtney, the President & Chief Executive अधिकारी at louisiana Public प्रसारण.
Soon after, LPB began airing one-minute वीडियो उत्पादित by the कल्पना Movers themselves.
the मूवर्स built a sizable regional following by सेटिंग शैक्षणिक गीतों for बच्चे to melodies and लय कि वयस्कों appreciate as well.
They sold more than 100,000 नक़ल of उनके self-produced CDs and dvds.
Their तीन इंडी cds : `` शुभ Ideas, '' `` कॉलिंग सब Movers, '' और `` आठ फीट '' साथ साथ their ग्रास roots dvd `` हलचल it up '' have, combined, won चौदह नेशनल पुरस्कार, from ऐसे groups as the National संघ of Parenting publications ( NAPPA ) and Parents ' चुनाव.
In जल्दी 2005, डिज़्नी took notice, and initiated negotiations to add the मूवर्स to the company 's रोस्टर.
These were बाधित in August when the बाढ़ सुरक्षा designed और निर्मित by the फौज corps of इंजीनियर्स to protect New Orleans विफल.
The resulting floodwater claimed the band 's दफ्तर, as खूब as the घरों of कॉलिन्स, Durbin और poche – लकिन the deal थी हस्ताक्षरित in the वसन्त of 2006.
In 2008, Walt डिज़्नी रिकॉर्ड introduced the कल्पना Movers ' म्यूज़िक to the nation साथ the release of the Movers ' first nationally-released cd, `` Juice बक्सा Heroes. ''
in सितंबर 2008, a 30-minute show featuring the group began airing on the डिज़्नी चैनल 's प्रीस्कूल programming block known as Playhouse डिज़्नी, और currently airs on playhouse डिज़्नी 's बदलना, Disney Junior.
The मूवर्स लिखें and perform सब the गीतों on उनके show.
moreover, the Imagination मूवर्स have प्राप्त नाजुक kudos for their live कॉन्सर्ट प्रदर्शन.
in अक्तूबर 2009, the कल्पना मूवर्स started the `` सजीव इससे the विचार Warehouse Concert Tour 2009 ''.
Traveling इससे mid-October to mid-december 2009 their सजीव performances include lots of उनके favorite songs और dancing, as खूब as video दिखावे of गोदाम चूहा.
Beginning in early-february 2011 और wrapping up in late may 2011, the कल्पना मूवर्स presented उनके `` In a Big गोदाम कॉन्सर्ट दौरे, '' playing more than 100 shows in 50+ cities across North अमेरिका.
From कूच to अक्तूबर 2012, the Imagination Movers toured उत्तर America on their post-Disney `` Rock-O-Matic '' tour.
the दिखाएँ maintained अनेक elements of the असली tv concept, ऐसे as an on-stage `` idea आपात '' और several sets from their older कैटलॉग ; however, साथ the departure of वेन्डी calio वापस to उसके native Hawaii, the character `` नीना '', साथ साथ उसके musical संख्याएँ, is not उपस्थित.
the दौरे promotes the Imagination Movers ' new album/dvd release, `` rock-o-matic '', which features सब new music from the बैंड.
the एल्बम itself is उत्पादित independently of डिज़्नी और रै a notably more वयस्क, समकालीन rock-and-roll ध्वनि, हालांकि स्टिल बहुत उचित लिये children.
अनेक प्रदर्शन तिथियाँ यहूद moved to later in 2012 to benefit इससे the increased एक्सपोज़र of the Imagination Movers TV show अभी playing रोज़ on Disney Junior.
the platypus ( ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic स्तनधारी endemic to पूर्वी ऑस्ट्रेलिया, सहित तस्मानिया.
साथ साथ the four प्रजाति of echidna, it is one of the पाँच extant प्रजाति of monotremes, the only mammals that lay eggs instead of giving जनम.
It is the sole जीना प्रतिनिधि of इसके परिवार ( ornithorhynchidae ) और genus ( ornithorhynchus ), हालांकि a क्रमांक of सम्बन्धित प्रजाति have been मिला in the चट्टान रिकार्ड.
the unusual appearance of this egg-laying, बतख -billed, beaver -tailed, otter -footed स्तनधारी baffled European naturalists when वे first encountered it, साथ some considering it an elaborate fraud.
it is one of the few venomous स्तनधारियों, the male platypus having a spur on the hind पैर that delivers a venom capable of causing severe pain to humans.
the अद्वितीय सुविधाएँ of the platypus मेक it an important विषय in the पढ़ाई of विकासवादी biology और a recognisable और iconic प्रतीक of ऑस्ट्रेलिया ; it has appeared as a mascot at national कार्यक्रम और is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent सिक्का.
The platypus is the animal emblem of the राज्य of New South Wales.
जबतक the early 20th सदी, it was hunted for its fur, लकिन it is now सुरक्षित throughout its दायरा.
Although captive breeding programmes have had तभी limited कामयाबी and the platypus is vulnerable to the प्रभाव of प्रदूषण, it is नहीं अंतर्गत कोई immediate threat.
the chupacabra or chupacabras (, इससे chupar `` to चूस '' and cabra `` goat '', वस्तुतः `` बकरी चूषक '' ) is a legendary cryptid rumored to inhabit भाग of the americas.
it is associated अधिक recently साथ sightings of an allegedly unknown एनिमल in प्यूर्टो Rico ( where ये sightings यहूद पहला reported ), मैक्सिको, और the United States, विशेषकर in the latter 's लैटिन अमरीकी समुदायों.
The name comes इससे the एनिमल 's reported habit of attacking और drinking the blood of livestock, विशेषकर बकरियों.
शारीरिक descriptions of the प्राणी vary.
Eyewitness sightings have been claimed as जल्दी as 1995 in प्यूर्टो रीको, and have चूंकि been reported as far north as maine, और as far south as चिली, और even being spotted outside the Americas in देशों like Russia and the Philippines.
it is supposedly a heavy creature, the आकार of a छोटी भालू, with a पंक्ति of spines reaching इससे the गर्दन to the base of the टेल.
Sighting रिपोर्ट्स of the chupacabra have been disregarded as uncorroborated or lacking प्रमाण, जबकि सबसे reports in उत्तरी मैक्सिको और the दक्षिणी United राज्य have महरूम verified as canids afflicted by mange.
biologists और wildlife प्रबन्धन officials दृश्य the chupacabra as a contemporary लेजेंड.
the North American फ़्री Trade Agreement ( NAFTA ) is an अनुबंध हस्ताक्षरित by कनाडा, Mexico, और the संयुक्त States, creating a trilateral व्यापार bloc in उत्तर अमेरिका.
the agreement came into force on जनवरी 1, 1994.
it superseded the canada–united States Free व्यापार अनुबंध between the U.S., Canada, and Mexico
nafta has दो पूरक : the North अमरीकी Agreement on Environmental सहयोग ( NAAEC ) and the North अमरीकी Agreement on Labor Cooperation ( NAALC ).
थर्मल सुकून is the कंडीशन of दिमाग that expresses संतोष साथ the थर्मल पर्यावरण and is assessed by subjective मूल्यांकन ( ansi / ASHRAE Standard 55 ).
maintaining इस मानक of thermal comfort लिये occupants of buildings or other enclosures is एक of the महत्वपूर्ण goals of hvac ( heating, वेंटिलेशन, और air conditioning ) डिज़ाइन engineers.
The पूर्वानुमानित औसत vote ( pmv ) मॉडल stands among the most पहचाना thermal comfort models.
It थी developed using सिद्धान्त of heat balance और प्रायोगिक data एकत्रित in a नियंत्रित climate कक्ष अंतर्गत steady राज्य conditions.
Because the pmv मॉडल was derived from आंकड़ा एकत्रित in a controlled जलवायु, it is नहीं उपयुक्त for अनुप्रयोग in naturally ventilated spaces which प्रायः have ऊँची स्तर of air movement.
इस shortcoming motivated the विकास of a family of empirical statistical models of thermal सुकून in naturally ventilated स्पेसेस known as adaptive मॉडल.
अनुकूली models of थर्मल सुकून consider occupants as dynamically interacting साथ उनके environment, and controlling their thermal comfort by means of कपडे or window-opening और closing.
इस is in कंट्रास्ट to thermal सुकून in sealed buildings, in जिससे occupants अनुभव the पर्यावरण passively.
Thermal सुकून is affected by heat conduction, convection, radiation, and evaporative heat loss.
Thermal comfort is maintained जब the heat उत्पन्न by human चयापचय is अनुमत to dissipate, thus maintaining thermal संतुलन साथ the surroundings.
It has महरूम long पहचाना कि the सनसनी of feeling hot or cold is not just dependent on air तापमान अलोन.
Thermal सुकून calculations according to ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 55 can be freely performed साथ the CBE Thermal Comfort Tool लिये ashrae-55.
Durante degli Alighieri, बस referred to as Dante (, ; ; c. 1265–1321 ), was a major Italian कवि of the Middle आयु.
उसके दैवी Comedy, originally called ' and बाद पुकारा ' by Boccaccio, is widely माना the greatest साहित्यिक कार्य रचित in the इतालवी भाषा and a masterpiece of world literature.
In इटली he is known as ' ( `` the Supreme Poet '' ) or just '.
he, petrarch and boccaccio are also known as `` the three स्रोतों '' or `` the तीन crowns ''.
Dante is भी called the `` Father of the Italian language ''.
मुख्यालय ( Kobe, Japan )
( ) is a tire और रबर company based in Japan.
It is भाग of the sumitomo Group.
The कम्पनी traces इसके origins to 1909, जब the sumitomo समूह बना an निवेश in Dunlop जापानी, the newly formed जापानी subsidiary of the अंग्रेजों company Dunlop रबर.
Over the सालो Sumitomo और Dunlop developed a close business संबंध, और in 1963 the Sumitomo Group acquired कंट्रोल of Dunlop जापानी और renamed it sumitomo रबर Industries ltd.
In 1985, जब Dunlop Rubber थी taken over by btr plc, the कम्पनी acquired the ऑटोमोबाइल tire assets of dunlop, including the right to use the dunlop brand on ऑटोमोबाइल tires.
the acquisition किया नहीं शामिल the us and Australian व्यवसायों, which were separately स्वामित्व, लकिन in 1986 Sumitomo भी acquired the dunlop टायर निगम of the US from इसके प्रबन्धन.
in 1997, Sumitomo formed a संयुक्त venture साथ Goodyear टायर and Rubber कम्पनी, by जिससे Goodyear and Sumitomo agreed to manufacture टायर लिये प्रत्येक अन्य 's markets, including dunlop ब्रांडेड tires.
As भाग of the अनुबंध, Goodyear acquired 75 % interests in dunlop Tyres, the uk company जिससे sumitomo had formed, and in Dunlop टायर निगम.
goodyear और sumitomo भी made निवेश in each other.
आज, the कम्पनी makes a wide दायरा of rubber आधारित उत्पाद, सहित ऑटोमोबाइल tires, गोल्फ़ balls और टेनिस गेंदें.
Microsoft विज़ुअल Studio एक्स्प्रेस is a नियत of freeware integrated विकास environments ( आईडीई ) developed by Microsoft कि are lightweight संस्करण of the microsoft विज़ुअल Studio उत्पाद लकीर.
Express Editions यहूद conceived शुरूआत साथ Visual स्टुडियो 2005.
The विचार of Express संस्करण is to provide streamlined, easy-to-use and easy-to-learn IDEs लिये users other than professional तन्त्र डेवलपर, ऐसे as hobbyists और students.
the Alps हैं one of the great पहाड़ दायरा systems of Europe stretching approximately आरपार आठ Alpine countries from ऑस्ट्रिया and Slovenia in the ईस्ट, स्विट्ज़रलैंड, liechtenstein, Germany, France to the वेस्ट and इटली और Monaco to the दक्षिण.
The mountains were formed over hundreds of लाखो of सालो as the अफ़्रीकी and Eurasian tectonic प्लेटों collided.
Extreme shortening caused by the इवेंट resulted in marine sedimentary रॉक्स उठती by thrusting और folding into high पहाड़ peaks such as मोंट blanc and the matterhorn.
मोंट blanc spans the french–italian border, और at is the उच्चतम mountain in the Alps.
the अल्पाइन प्रदेश क्षेत्रफल contains many चोटियों उच्चतर than, known as the `` four-thousanders ``.
The ऊँचाई और आकार of the दायरा affects the climate in Europe ; in the kyu वर्षण स्तर vary greatly and climatic शर्तें consist of distinct zones.
वन्यजीव ऐसे as ibex live in the उच्चतर peaks to elevations of, and पौधे ऐसे as edelweiss grow in rocky क्षेत्रों in lower elevations as खूब as in higher elevations.
Evidence of human habitation in the Alps goes back to the Paleolithic era.
A mummified man, संकल्पित to be 5,000 सालो old, थी discovered on a glacier at the austrian–italian border in 1991.
by the 6th सदी BC, the सेल्टिक La tène culture थी well established.
Hannibal may have crossed the ऐल्प्स with a झुंड of हाथियों, and the romans था settlements in the region.
In 1800 नेपोलियन crossed one of the पहाड़ गुजरता with an army of 40,000.
The 18th and 19th सदियां saw an influx of naturalists, लेखक, और कलाकारों, in particular the Romantics, followed by the golden आयु of alpinism as mountaineers began to ascend the peaks.
In संसार युद्ध II the Third Reich invaded the Alpine देशों, with the एक्सेप्शन of स्विट्ज़रलैंड and Liechtenstein ; Adolf Hitler kept a आधार of आपरेशन in the bar ऐल्प्स throughout the war.
the Alpine region has a strong सांस्कृतिक identity.
The traditional संस्कृति of खेती, cheesemaking, और woodworking स्टिल exists in Alpine villages, although the tourist industry began to grow early in the 20th सदी and विस्तारित greatly बाद संसार War II to become the प्रबल उद्योग by the समाप्त of the सदी.
The Winter ओलम्पिक खेल have महरूम hosted in the Swiss, फ्रेंच, इतालवी, आस्ट्रिया and German Alps.
at present the प्रदेश is घर to 14 million लोगों and has 120 million annual visitors.
लोइस Patrice griffin ( née Pewterschmidt ) is a character from the एनिमेटेड television श्रेणी Family guy.
She is voiced by writer Alex borstein और पहला appeared on television, along साथ the rest of the family in the 15-minute छोटी on दिसम्बर 20, 1998.
लोइस थी निर्मित and designed by series निर्माता Seth macfarlane.
MacFarlane was पूछा to pitch a pilot to the फॉक्स Broadcasting Company based on लैरी and Steve, a short बना by MacFarlane जिससे featured a middle-aged अक्षर नामित लैरी और an बौद्धिक dog, Steve.
बाद the pilot थी दिए the ग्रीन light, the Griffin परिवार appeared on the एपीसोड `` Death रै a Shadow ``.
Lois is the mother of the Griffin परिवार.
With उसके husband Peter, she रै had three children : Meg, क्रिस, और Stewie.
Lois is often portrayed as a stereotypical टेलीविज़न mother, despite उसके admitting to होने a ड्रग उपयोक्ता, a recovering मेथ नशेड़ी kleptomaniac.
Lois रै भी था अनेक affairs, one of which allegedly resulted in the conception of Meg.
वो रै appeared in other media relating to परिवार guy—including a वीडियो खेल, commercials और books—and inspired an entire line of merchandise.
लोइस 's distinctive New York एक्सेंट originated from a अक्षर in a stage show कि Alex Borstein had performed in, जिससे was largely प्रेरित by a सापेक्ष जो grew up on Long Island, New York.
परिवार हस्तांतरण of बास्क भाषा ( Basque as initial language )
प्रतिशत of विद्यार्थी पंजीकृत in Basque language schools ( 2000–2005 ).
स्थान of the Basque-language प्रांतों within Spain and France
बास्क ( endonym :, ) is the ancestral language of the Basque लोगों, जो inhabit the Basque देश, a प्रदेश spanning an area in northeastern स्पेन and southwestern France.
It is बोला by 27 % of basques in सब territories ( 714,136 आउट of 2,648,998 ).
Of ये, 663,035 live in the Spanish part of the Basque देश and the remaining 51,100 सजीव in the French भाग.
In अकादमिक discussions of the वितरण of Basque in Spain और France, it is customary to refer to तीन ancient provinces in फ़्रांस और four Spanish provinces.
Native अध्यक्षों हैं concentrated in a संलग्न area सहित भाग of the स्पेनी autonomous communities of the Basque Country और नावारा और in the पश्चिमी half of the French département of pyrénées-atlantiques.
the बास्क autonomous Community is an administrative entity within the binational ethnographic Basque देश incorporating the traditional Spanish प्रांतों of Biscay, Gipuzkoa, और álava, जिससे retain उनके अस्तित्व as politico-administrative विभाजन.
These प्रांतों और अनेक क्षेत्रों of नावारा हैं heavily आबादी by ethnic Basques, but बास्क थी, at least जबतक the 1990s, not spoken as a native language in सबसे of álava, पश्चिमी parts of Biscay और central and दक्षिणी क्षेत्रों of Navarre, either क्युकी it था महरूम replaced by स्पेनी along the सदियां, in कुछ क्षेत्रों, or because it had never महरूम बोला there, in other क्षेत्रों.
in southwestern France, the ancient Basque-populated provinces यहूद labourd, Lower नावारा, and soule.
They and अन्य regions यहूद संचित into a single département in 1790 अंतर्गत the नाम Basses-Pyrénées, a name जिससे persisted जबतक 1970.
A मानकीकृत form of the बास्क language, पुकारा Euskara batua, was विकसित by the बास्क भाषा Academy in the लेट 1960s.
Euskara batua थी created so कि बास्क language could be used—and easily समझा by सब Basque speakers—in औपचारिक situations ( शिक्षा, mass media, साहित्य ), और this is its main use today.
The भूमिका of इस मानक Basque भाषा depends on the linguistic शैक्षणिक मॉडल of प्रत्येक प्रदेश and each स्कूल.
In सबसे areas of the स्पेनी बास्क Country, the शैक्षणिक Model D, जहाँ all subjects हैं taught in Basque, except `` Spanish भाषा and साहित्य '' ( जिससे is taught in स्पेनी ) is now the predominant मॉडल.
in France, the बास्क भाषा school seaska and the association लिये a bilingual ( Basque and French ) schooling Ikasbi मिलें a चौड़ी range of बास्क language educational needs up to the Sixth Form, जबकि प्रायः struggling to surmount वित्तीय और administrative constraints.
अलावा from this मानकीकृत संस्करण, वहीँ are five प्रमुख बास्क dialects : Bizkaian, gipuzkoan, और Upper Navarrese in Spain, and navarrese–lapurdian और Zuberoan ( in फ़्रांस ).
हालांकि they take उनके names इससे the mentioned ऐतिहासिक प्रांतों, the dialect boundaries हैं नहीं congruent with प्रांत boundaries.
The President, Directors and Company, of the बैंको of the संयुक्त States, commonly known as the First Bank of the संयुक्त States, was a central बैंको, chartered for a पद of बीस सालो, by the संयुक्त States Congress on February 25, 1791.
Establishment of the Bank was included in a three-part expansion of federal fiscal and मौद्रिक power ( along with a federal मिंट और excise कर ) championed by Alexander हैमिल्टन, पहला सचिव of the राजकोष.
Hamilton believed a central बैंको was जरुरी to stabilize and improve the nation 's credit, and to improve handling of the वित्तीय कारोबार of the संयुक्त राज्य government अंतर्गत the newly enacted संविधान.
Officially प्रस्तावित to the first सत्र of the First कॉंग्रेस in 1790, हैमिल्टन 's Bank faced फैली प्रतिरोध from opponents of increased संघीय शक्ति.
Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson and James Madison led the विपक्ष, which claimed कि the बैंको was unconstitutional, and that it benefited व्यापारियों और निवेशकों at the व्यय of the बहुमत of the जनसांख्यिकी.
The First Bank भवन is अभी a नेशनल ऐतिहासिक लैंडमार्क स्तिथ in फिलाडेल्फिया, Pennsylvania within Independence नेशनल Historical पार्क.
जेम्स वेस्ले Marsters ( born अगस्त 20, 1962 ) is an American actor और संगीतकार.
marsters first आए to the attention of the general public playing the popular character Spike, a platinum-blond yobbish अंग्रेज़ी vampire in the television series Buffy the Vampire Slayer and इसके spin-off श्रेणी, Angel, from 1997 to 2004.
चूंकि तब, he रै गए on to play other विज्ञान fiction roles, such as the एलियन supervillain Brainiac on the Superman -inspired series smallville, the omnisexual time मुसाफ़िर कप्तान John Hart in अंग्रेजों science-fiction दिखाएँ Torchwood and आतंकवादी barnabas Greeley in sci fi 's Caprica.
Marsters appeared in a supporting role in the 2007 movie P.S.
I Love You and as the main antagonist, piccolo, in the 2009 fantasy एडवेंचर film dragonball एवोल्यूशन.
he appeared as a पुनरावर्ती character in the पहला ऋतु of the पुनरुद्धार of Hawaii 5-0.
in आणविक biology, इंसान chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) is a hormone produced by the fertilized egg बाद धारणा.
Later during गर्भावस्था it is बना by the developing placenta, और later by the placental घटक syncytiotrophoblast.
कुछ cancerous tumors उपज this hormone ; इसलिए, elevated स्तर measured when the patient is नहीं pregnant can lead to a cancer निदान.
However, it is नहीं ज्ञात whether इस production is a contributing cause or an effect of tumorigenesis.
the pituitary analogue of hcg, known as luteinizing हार्मोन ( LH ), is उत्पादित in the pituitary gland of males and महिलाओं of all ages.
, the एफडीए रै prohibited the sale of `` homeopathic '' और over the काउंटर hcg diet उत्पाद and घोषित them बेईमान और illegal.
बेयोंस Giselle knowles-carter, ज्ञात by her स्टेज name बेयोंस ( ; born सितंबर 4, 1981 ), is an American singer, songwriter, dancer, and अभिनेत्री.
Born और उठाया in ह्यूस्टन, टेक्सास, she performed in singing और नाचना competitions as a child पहले forming in 1990 a समूह with Kelly rowland और latavia roberson that थी आखिरकार named Destiny 's चाइल्ड.
एकबार signed to Columbia रिकॉर्ड, the लड़कियों subsequently became एक of the संसार 's best-selling girl समूह of सब समय.
the group was plagued by आतंरिक विरोध and विधिक turmoil and नॉलेस suffered from अवसाद that lasted for a number of सालो.
During the group 's hiatus, नॉलेस released उसके debut सोलो एल्बम Dangerously in प्रेम ( 2003 ), which earned उसके पाँच Grammy पुरस्कार and has sold a कुल of 4.9 million नक़ल in the US अलोन.
It spawned Billboard क्रमांक one singles `` Crazy in Love, '' माना by vh1 to be the `` महानतम Song of the 00 's, '' और `` baby लड़के. ''
following the disbandment of Destiny 's चाइल्ड in 2005, Knowles 's दूसरी solo album B'Day ( 2006 ) contained the शीर्ष पाँच singles `` déjà Vu ``, `` Irreplaceable ``, and `` Beautiful झूठा ``.
Her प्रदर्शन in dreamgirls ( 2006 ) अर्जित her two Golden Globe nominations.
नॉलेस ' कार्य playing Etta जेम्स in कि film प्रेरित her subsequent एल्बम i am...
साशा Fierce ( 2008 ) which शाखित hits `` If I यहूद a लड़के ``, `` सिंगल महिलाओं ( Put a रिंग on It ) ``, `` Halo ``, and `` Sweet सपनो ``.
The एल्बम भी helped Knowles earn छह Grammys in 2010, तोड़कर the record लिये सबसे Grammy पुरस्कार won by a मादा artist in one रात्रि.
उसके fourth एल्बम 4 ( 2011 ) deviated towards परंपरागत R & B and became उसके चौथी लगातार number one एल्बम on the Billboard 200.
in जनवरी 2012, Knowles दिया birth to बेटी Blue Ivy Carter, उसके पहला child साथ husband jay-z.
नॉलेस रै बेची over 13 लाख एल्बम in the US और 118 लाख रिकॉर्ड worldwide ( as खूब as a further 50 लाख records with Destiny 's Child ), and is एक of the best-selling music artists of सब समय.
the रिकॉर्डिंग Industry संघ of America ( RIAA ) पहचाना Knowles as the Top Certified Artist of the 2000s.
In 2009, Billboard named उसके the शीर्ष रेडियो Songs कलाकार of the दशक और ranked her the Top मादा कलाकार और the fourth कलाकार of the Decade.
Beyoncé नॉलेस is the सबसे nominated woman in Grammy Award history, receiving 17 पुरस्कार ; other accolades शामिल 12 एमटीवी Video Music Awards, 7 Billboard पुरस्कार including a मिलेनियम Award, and a star on the Hollywood Walk of कीर्ति as भाग of नियति 's Child.
`` Angry All the Time '' is the title of a सोंग लिखा by Bruce robison और first अंकित on his 1998 एल्बम लपेटा.
It थी later covered by टिम McGraw साथ अतिथि vocalist Faith हिल.
Released in जुलाई 2001, McGraw 's संस्करण was the दूसरी single इससे McGraw 's नियत इस सर्कस Down album.
The song reached क्रमांक One on the Billboard Hot देश Singles & ट्रैक्स ( now hot देश गीतों ) चार्ट.
डिअर John is a 2010 American रोमांटिक नाटक - war film अभिनीत Amanda Seyfried और Channing Tatum.
it was released theatrically in उत्तर America on February 5, 2010.
The film was निर्देशित by lasse hallström, और it is an adaptation of Nicholas स्पार्क्स 's novel of the same name.
it फ़ॉलो the जीवन of a सिपाही ( चेनिंग Tatum ) बाद he जलप्रपात in प्रेम with a young स्त्री ( Amanda seyfried ).
They decide to exchange letters to each अन्य after he is deployed to the युद्ध.
the movie was filmed in 2009 in Charleston, दक्षिण कैरोलिना.
despite receiving negative समीक्षाएँ, the film बना a strong बक्सा office प्रदर्शन, knocking off Avatar बाद seven weekends in पहला place and grossing a total of $ 114,977,104 worldwide.
the film was released on May 25, 2010 on DVD and blu-ray.
ये हैं सूचियाँ of the busiest airports in the संयुक्त राज्य.
hartsfield–jackson अटलांटा अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र is the व्यस्ततम सिंगल airport in the संयुक्त राज्य.
however, all of the नई York नगर महानगर क्षेत्रफल 's airports combine to create the largest विमानक्षेत्र system in the संयुक्त राज्य, second in the संसार in terms of passenger ट्रैफ़िक, और पहला in the world in terms of total उड़ान operations.
Dora the एक्सप्लोरर is an American एनिमेटेड television series निर्मित by Chris gifford, Valerie वाल्श, और Eric weiner.
डोरा the एक्सप्लोरर became a regular series in 2000.
the show is carried on the निकलोडियन केबल television network, सहित the संबद्ध Nick jr. चैनल.
it aired on CBS जबतक September 2006.
a spanish-dubbed संस्करण पहला aired as part of a Nick en español ब्लाक on NBC Universal -owned telemundo through सितंबर 2006 ; चूंकि April 2008, इस version of the कार्यक्रम has been carried on univision as part of the planeta u block.
Santa fe ( ; ( tewa : Ogha Po'oge, ) ) is the पूंजी of the U.S. state of New Mexico.
It is the fourth-largest city in the राज्य and is the seat of.
सांता fe ( meaning “holy faith” in स्पेनी ) had a जनसांख्यिकी of 67,947 in the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
It is the प्रिंसिपल नगर of a महानगर Statistical Area which encompasses all of Santa fe काउंटी and is part of the larger albuquerque-santa fe-las वेगास संयुक्त Statistical Area.
The city’s पूरा name जब founded was la Villa Real de la सांता fé de San Francisco de asís ( “The royal कस्बा of the Holy आस्था of St. फ्रांसिस of assisi” ).
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as pepsi, formerly stylized in uppercase as PEPSI ) is a carbonated soft drink कि is produced और manufactured by पेप्सिको.
Created and विकसित in 1893 and introduced as Brad 's Drink, it थी renamed as Pepsi-Cola on अगस्त 28, 1898, तब to पेप्सी in 1961.
1765 Broadside
the Sons of स्वतंत्रता was a group consisting of अमरीकी देशप्रेमी कि originated in the pre-independence उत्तर अमरीकी British colonies.
the समूह थी formed to protect the rights of the colonists and to take to the streets विरूद्ध the taxes by the British सरकारी.
They हैं best known लिये undertaking the Boston चाय पार्टी in 1773, which led to the असहनीय Acts ( an तीव्र crackdown by the British government ), और a counter-mobilization by the Patriots.
Osaka किला
is a city in the Kansai प्रदेश of जापानी 's प्रमुख island of Honshu, a designated नगर अंतर्गत the लोकल Autonomy Law, the capital city of Osaka प्रीफ़ेक्चर और also the largest भाग of the keihanshin metropolis, जिससे comprises तीन major cities of जापानी, Kyoto, Osaka और कोबे.
Located at the mouth of the Yodo River on ओसाका खाड़ी, ओसाका is Japan 's तीसरा largest city by population after टोकियो ( special wards ) and Yokohama.
keihanshin is the दूसरी largest metropolitan area in जापानी by जनसांख्यिकी and एक of the largest महानगर areas highly ranked in the संसार, with nearly 19 लाख लोगों, and by GDP the second largest क्षेत्रफल in जापानी और the seventh largest area in the संसार.
historically the वाणिज्यिक center of जापानी, Osaka कृत्यों as एक of the command centers लिये the जापानी economy.
the अनुपात between दिन और रात्रि समय population is 141 %, the highest in जापानी, highlighting इसके status as an economic center.
Its nighttime जनसांख्यिकी is 2.6 लाख, the third in the देश, but in daytime the जनसांख्यिकी surges to 3.7 million, दूसरी तभी after टोकियो ( combining the special wards of Tokyo, which is नहीं a single incorporated city, लिये सांख्यिकीय purposes ; see the टोकियो आलेख for अधिक information on the definition and मेकअप of टोकियो ).
Osaka प्रयुक्त to be referred to as the in feudal ईदो काल क्युकी it थी the केन्द्र of trading for rice, बनाना the पहला modern futures exchange market in the संसार.
the छोटी Mermaid is a 1989 American एनिमेटेड musical काल्पनिक film उत्पादित by Walt डिज़्नी Feature Animation and distributed by Walt डिज़्नी Pictures.
Based on the डैनिश fairy tale by Hans ईसाई Andersen, The छोटी मरमेड tells the स्टोरी of a beautiful मरमेड जो dreams of becoming human.
Written, directed, and produced by Ron Clements और जॉन musker, with music by Alan Menken and हावर्ड ashman, the फिल्मी features the आवाज़ें jodi बेंसन, Christopher डेनियल Barnes, Pat Carroll, Samuel E. Wright, Jason Marin, Kenneth Mars, दोस्त Hacket, और रेने auberjonois.
The 28th फिल्मी in the Walt Disney एनिमेटेड Classics श्रेणी, the Little मरमेड थी released to theaters on नवम्बर 14, 1989 to largely positive समीक्षाएँ, garnering $ 84 million at the बक्सा दफ्तर during its आरंभिक रिलीज, और $ 211 लाख in total lifetime सकल.
बाद the success of the 1988 Disney / amblin फिल्मी Who Framed Roger खरगोश, the छोटी मरमेड is दिए credit for श्वास जीवन back into the art of Disney animated विशेषता films after a स्ट्रिंग of नाजुक or वाणिज्यिक असफलताओं produced by Disney that dated back to the जल्दी 1970s.
It भी marked the start of the era known as the डिज़्नी पुनर्जागरण.
A स्टेज अनुकूलन of the फिल्मी with a किताब by Doug Wright और additional songs by Alan menken and नई गीतों ग्लेन स्लेटर खोली in Denver in July 2007 और began प्रदर्शन on Broadway January 10, 2008.
alt=close-up photo of a मेटल चमचा भर with a viscous, clear जामुनी fluid
Purple पिया is a कठबोली term लिये a recreational ड्रग लोकप्रिय in the hip हॉप community in the दक्षिणी संयुक्त States, originating in Houston, Texas.
इसके प्रमुख संघटक is prescription -strength cough सिरप containing codeine और promethazine.
Cough सिरप is typically मिश्रित with ingredients such as sprite soft drink or पहाड़ ओस और pieces of Jolly rancher कैंडी.
The purplish hue of जामुनी drank आता from dyes in the cough syrup.
There are numerous कठबोली शर्तें लिये purple drank, सहित sizzurp, lean, सिरप, पिया, barre, जामुनी jelly, Texas चाय, और Tsikuni.
first/given, मध्य, and last/family/surname diagram with J. S. Bach as उदाहरण.
J. S. बच साझा his दिए name साथ छह तात्कालिक family सदस्यों and many विस्तारित family सदस्यों.
he shared his परिवार नाम साथ most परिवार members.
A दिए नाम, in Western contexts प्रायः referred to as a first name, is a personal name कि specifies and differentiates between members of a group of individuals, especially in a family, सब of जिनकी members usually share the same family name ( उपनाम ).
a दिए name is purposefully दिए, usually by a चाइल्ड 's parents at or near जनम, in कंट्रास्ट to an inherited एक such as a परिवार नाम.
a दिए नाम is sometimes legally बदला through a नाम change.
दिए names हैं प्रायः used in a familiar and दोस्ताना manner in informal परिस्थितियों.
in more औपचारिक परिस्थितियों the surname is प्रयुक्त बजाय, unless it is जरुरी to फर्क between people साथ the same surname.
The idiom `` on a first-name basis '' ( or `` on first-name terms '' ) alludes to the अपनेपन of addressing another by a given name.
the western स्टाइल of having both a परिवार name ( surname ) and a दिए name is far from सार्वभौमिक.
In अनेक देशों it is आम लिये ordinary लोगों to have only एक name ( a mononym ).
हाइड्रोक्लोरिक acid is a साफ, colourless solution of hydrogen chloride ( h cl ) in जल.
it is a अत्यधिक क्षयकारी, strong खनिज acid with many औद्योगिक उपयोग.
हाइड्रोक्लोरिक एसिड is found naturally in gastric एसिड.
Historically called muriatic एसिड, and spirits of नमक, हाइड्रोक्लोरिक एसिड was produced from vitriol ( sulfuric acid ) और आम नमक.
it पहला appeared during the Renaissance, और तब it थी used by chemists such as glauber, Priestley and डेवी in their scientific research.
With प्रमुख production starting in the Industrial क्रान्ति, हाइड्रोक्लोरिक acid is used in the chemical industry as a chemical अभिकर्मक in the large-scale production of विनाइल chloride for पीवीसी प्लास्टिक, और MDI / tdi for polyurethane.
It has numerous smaller-scale अनुप्रयोग, including household cleaning, production of gelatin and other food additives, descaling, and चमड़े processing.
परिचय 20 million tonnes of हाइड्रोक्लोरिक एसिड हैं उत्पादित annually.
Wheat ( triticum spp. ) is a खाद्यान्न grain, originally इससे the levant region of the Near East and Ethiopian हाइलैंड्स, but now cultivated worldwide.
In 2010, संसार उत्पादन of wheat was 651 million tons, making it the तीसरा most-produced cereal बाद maize ( 844 million टन ) और rice ( 672 लाख tons ).
Wheat was the दूसरी most-produced खाद्यान्न in 2009 ; world उत्पादन in that साल थी 682 million tons, बाद मक्का ( 817 million टन ), और with राइस as a close third ( 679 million टन ).
इस अनाज is grown on अधिक land क्षेत्रफल than कोई other commercial food.
संसार trade in wheat is greater than लिये सब other फसलों संयुक्त.
globally, गेहूं is the leading source of vegetable protein in इंसान food, having a higher protein content than soybeans or the other प्रमुख cereals, मक्का ( मकई ) or राइस.
in terms of कुल production tonnages प्रयुक्त लिये food, it is currently second to rice as the प्रमुख human food क्रॉप and ahead of maize, बाद allowing for maize 's अधिक extensive use in एनिमल फ़ीड्स.
गेहूं was a key factor enabling the emergence of city-based societies at the start of सभ्यता because it was एक of the पहला crops कि could be easily cultivated on a large scale, and had the additional लाभ of yielding a कटाई that provides long-term storage of खाना.
Wheat contributed to the emergence of city-states in the Fertile crescent, सहित the Babylonian और Assyrian empires.
गेहूं grain is a staple खाना used to make आटा for leavened, flat और steamed breads, बिस्कुट, कुकीज़, cakes, breakfast खाद्यान्न, pasta, noodles, couscous and for fermentation to मेक beer, अन्य alcoholic पेय, or biofuel.
गेहूं is planted to a सीमित extent as a forage crop for पशुधन, and इसके straw can be प्रयुक्त as a construction सामग्री for roofing thatch.
The whole अनाज can be milled to leave बस the भ्रूणपोष लिये श्वेत आटा.
The by-products of this are चोकर और germ.
the whole grain is a concentrated source of विटामिन, minerals, and protein, जबकि the refined grain is mostly starch.
Printing
To publish is to मेक content available to the सामान्य पब्लिक.
While विशिष्ट उपयोग of the पद may vary among countries, it is usually applied to टेक्स्ट, images, or अन्य audio-visual content on any परंपरागत medium, सहित paper ( अखबारों, magazines, catalogs, इत्यादि. ).
The शब्द प्रकाशन means the act of प्रकाशन, and also refers to कोई printed नक़ल.
Melissa & Joey is an ABC परिवार original television श्रेणी अभिनीत मेलिसा जोन Hart and जॉय Lawrence.
it first aired on ABC Family on अगस्त 17, 2010.
The series follows लोकल राजनेता Mel Burke ( मेलिसा जोन हार्ट ) and Joe Longo ( जॉय Lawrence ), जिसको Mel hires to look after her niece और nephew after a Ponzi योजना leaves उसे broke.
The series was नवीनीकृत by ABC Family for a दूसरी ऋतु of पंद्रह एपीसोड, जिससे began airing on May 30, 2012 and ended on August 29, 2012.
Melissa & जॉय ranks as केबल TV 's # 1 telecast at 8 o'clock आरपार target ऑडियंस 18–34, 18–49 and 12–34 demographics.
on अगस्त 17, 2012, एबीसी Family renewed मेलिसा & Joey for a तीसरा ऋतु, नियत to premiere in spring 2013.
The धर्मं व्हील, प्रायः used to represent the प्रतिष्ठित eightfold पाथ
the प्रतिष्ठित Eightfold Path (, ) is एक of the प्रिंसिपल शिक्षाओं of the Buddha, जो वर्णित it as the रास्ता अग्रणी to the cessation of suffering ( dukkha ) and the उपलब्धि of self-awakening.
it is used to develop insight into the true nature of phenomena ( or reality ) और to eradicate लोभ, hatred, and delusion.
the प्रतिष्ठित eightfold Path is the चौथी of the Buddha 's चार प्रतिष्ठित सच्चाई ; the first element of the Noble Eightfold पाथ is, in फेरे, an understanding of the Four Noble Truths.
it is also ज्ञात as the मध्य पाथ or मध्य रास्ता.
सब eight elements of the पाथ begin साथ the शब्द `` सही '', which translates the word samyañc ( in संस्कृत ) or sammā ( in Pāli ).
ये denote completion, togetherness, और coherence, और can भी सुझाएँ the senses of `` perfect '' or `` ideal ''.
'Samma ' is भी translated as `` wholesome '', `` हिकमत '' और `` skillful ''.
in Buddhist प्रतीकवाद, the प्रतिष्ठित eightfold Path is प्रायः represented by अर्थात् of the dharma wheel ( dharmachakra ), जिनकी आठ spokes represent the आठ elements of the पाथ.
the Grammy पुरस्कार for Song of the Year is an honor presented at the Grammy पुरस्कार, a रस्म that थी स्थापित in 1958 और originally called the Gramophone Awards.
Awards in अनेक categories हैं वितरित annually by the नेशनल अकादमी of Recording कला and Sciences of the संयुक्त राज्य to `` honor artistic achievement, तकनीकी proficiency और overall excellence in the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग, बगैर regard to एल्बम sales or chart position. ''
अर्थशास्त्र is the social विज्ञान that analyzes the production, distribution, and consumption of goods and सेवाएं.
the पद economics आता from the प्राचीन यूनानी ( ', `` management of a household, प्रशासन '' ) from ( ', `` हाउस '' ) + ( ', `` कस्टम '' or `` law '' ), hence `` rules of the house ( hold ) ''.
राजनैतिक अर्थव्यवस्था थी the पहले name for the subject, लकिन अर्थशास्त्रियों in the late 19th century suggested `` economics '' as a shorter term for `` आर्थिक विज्ञान '' that also avoided a narrow political-interest connotation and as similar in form to `` गणित ``, `` ethics '', और so forth.
A focus of the subject is कैसा economic agents behave or interact और how economies work.
Consistent साथ this, a primary textbook भेद is between microeconomics और macroeconomics.
Microeconomics examines the behavior of मौलिक तत्व in the अर्थव्यवस्था, including individual agents ( ऐसे as households and firms or as buyers and विक्रेता ) और बाज़ार, और their interactions.
Macroeconomics analyzes the entire economy और issues affecting it, सहित बेरोजगारी, inflation, आर्थिक growth, and monetary and फिस्कल policy.
अन्य व्यापक भेद include those between positive अर्थशास्त्र ( describing `` what is '' ) and normative अर्थशास्त्र ( advocating `` what ought to be '' ) ; between economic theory और लागू economics ; between rational और behavioral economics ; और between मुख्यधारा economics ( more `` orthodox '' and dealing with the `` rationality-individualism-equilibrium nexus '' ) और शास्त economics ( more `` कट्टरपंथी '' और dealing साथ the `` institutions-history-social ढांचा नेक्सस '' ).
Economic विश्लेषण may be लागू throughout society, as in business, finance, स्वास्थ्य care, और सरकारी, लकिन also to such diverse विषय as crime, education, the परिवार, law, राजनीती, religion, सोशल institutions, war, and science.
At the turn of the 21st century, the expanding domain of economics in the सोशल sciences has महरूम described as economic साम्राज्यवाद.
An increasing क्रमांक of economists have called for increased जोर on environmental स्थिरता ; इस area of research is known as ecological अर्थशास्त्र.
This is a list of अनुसूची iv दवाएँ अंतर्गत the Controlled substances अधिनियम for the United राज्य.
जरूरी निष्कर्षों for drugs to be placed in this schedule:
The drug or अन्य substance has a कम संभावित for abuse सापेक्ष to the drugs or other substances in अनुसूची III.
the drug or other पदार्थ has a currently स्वीकृत चिकित्सा use in उपचार in the संयुक्त States.
Abuse of the drug or अन्य पदार्थ may lead to सीमित शारीरिक dependence or मनोवैज्ञानिक dependence relative to the दवाएँ or अन्य substances in अनुसूची iii.
The complete सूची of Schedule iv drugs हैं as फ़ॉलो.
the प्रशासनिक Controlled Substances Code क्रमांक लिये each drug is शामिल.
us काउंटी household median income 2009.
मध्य us household income, 2001-2011
household आय is a माप commonly प्रयुक्त by the संयुक्त States government and private संस्थानों.
प्रत्येक household is measured by the आय of every resident over the आयु of 15.
Income शामिल मजदूरी और salaries, बेरोजगारी insurance, विकलांगता भुगतान, child support भुगतान received, regular rental receipts, as well as any personal business, investment, or other kinds of आय प्राप्त routinely.
जबकि inflation-adjusted ( `` रियल '' ) household income had महरूम increasing लगभग प्रत्येक year इससे 1945 to 1999, it has since been flat and भी decreased recently.
u.S. मध्य household income fell from $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011.
चरम poverty in the संयुक्त राज्य, meaning households living on कम than $ 2 per दिन before government लाभ, doubled from 1996 to 1.5 लाख households in 2011, सहित 2.8 million children.
The residents of the household do नहीं have to be सम्बन्धित to the सिर of the household लिये their आय to be माना भाग of the household 's आय.
As households tend to share a समान economic कॉन्टेक्स्ट, the use of household income remains among the सबसे widely accepted measures of income.
कि the size of a household is not commonly taken into account in such उपायों may distort any विश्लेषण of fluctuations within or among the household income categories, and may render direct comparisons between quintiles difficult or even impossible.
the lapse rate is defined as the रेट of decrease साथ height लिये an atmospheric परिवर्तनीय.
The परिवर्तनीय involved is तापमान unless specified otherwise.
The शब्दावली arises from the शब्द बीतने in the sense of a घटी or मनाही.
जबकि most often लागू to धरती 's माहौल the concept can be extended to any gravitationally supported ball of गैस.
ब्लू Mountain State is an अमरीकी कॉमेडी series कि premiered on स्पाइक on जनवरी 11, 2010.
The श्रेणी निर्माता include क्रिस Romano और Eric falconer, and it is उत्पादित by Lionsgate टेलीविज़न.
the series is परिचय a fictional university, Blue Mountain राज्य, and इसके football टोली, `` the Mountain बकरियों. ''
it portrays निश्चित aspects of American university जीवन, सहित फ़ुटबॉल, sex, binge पीने, दवाएँ, wild पार्टी, and hazing.
In फ़रवरी 2012, it was reported कि Blue Mountain State होता not be नवीनीकृत लिये a fourth ऋतु.
In March 2013, Ed marinaro stated that he is working on a ब्लू पहाड़ राज्य फिल्मी.
ठहराना Inc., formerly ठहराना कंप्यूटर, inc., is an American बहुराष्ट्रीय corporation headquartered in Cupertino, कैलिफ़ोर्निया that designs, develops, और sells उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स, computer software and निजी कंप्यूटर.
Its best-known hardware उत्पाद are the मैक लकीर of computers, the ipod म्यूज़िक खिलाड़ी, the iPhone smartphone, and the iPad tablet कंप्यूटर.
Its तन्त्र includes the os X और आईओएस ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों, the iTunes मीडिया browser, the safari वेब ब्राउजर, and the ilife and iwork रचनात्मकता और उत्पादन suites.
The कम्पनी थी संस्थापित on अप्रैल 1, 1976, और incorporated as Apple Computer, inc. on जनवरी 3, 1977.
The word `` कंप्यूटर '' was removed इससे इसके name on January 9, 2007, reflecting इसके shifted फ़ोकस towards उपभोक्ता electronics after the परिचय of the iPhone.
Apple is the world 's second-largest सूचना technology कम्पनी by आय after Samsung इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स, और the संसार 's third-largest मोबाईल phone मेकर बाद Samsung and Nokia.
सौभाग्य magazine नामित Apple the सबसे admired company in the संयुक्त राज्य in 2008, and in the संसार इससे 2008 to 2012.
however, the company रै प्राप्त criticism for its contractors ' labor practices, and for ठहराना 's own environmental और कारोबार practices.
, Apple maintains 394 retail stores in चौदह देशों as well as the online ठहराना स्टोर और itunes स्टोर.
It is the second-largest सरेआम traded corporation in the world by मार्केट capitalization, with an estimated मान of US $ 414 अरब as of जनवरी 2013.
, the company था 72,800 permanent full-time employees और 3,300 अस्थाई full-time employees worldwide.
Its विश्वव्यापी सालाना revenue in 2012 totalled $ 156 अरब.
Section 8 आवास in the दक्षिण bronx
Section 8 of the आवास Act of 1937 ( ), often बस known as खण्ड 8, as repeatedly amended, authorizes the भुगतान of rental आवास assistance to private landlords on निमित्त of approximately 3.1 million low-income households.
It operates through अनेक programs, the largest of जिससे, the आवास चुनाव वाउचर program, pays a large portion of the rents and उपयोगिताएँ of about 2.1 million households.
The US विभाग of आवास and Urban विकास manages the Section 8 programs.
the आवास चुनाव Voucher कार्यक्रम provides `` tenant-based '' rental सहायता, so a किरायेदार can move इससे one ईकाई of at least न्यूनतम housing quality to another.
It भी allows individuals to लागू their मासिक voucher towards the purchase of a home, साथ over $ 17 billion going towards such purchases each साल ( इससे ncsha.org विश्लेषण ).
The अधिकतम अनुमत वाउचर is $ 2200 a month.
Section 8 भी authorizes a किस्में of `` project-based '' rental सहायता कार्यक्रम, under which the owner reserves some or all of the इकाई in a भवन for low-income किरायेदारों, in वापसी for a संघीय government guarantee to make up the अंतर between the किरायेदार 's contribution and the rent for 1 cent in the मालिक 's contract with the government.
a किरायेदार who पत्ते a subsidized प्रोजेक्ट होगा lose अभिगम to the project-based रियायत.
The United राज्य विभाग of आवास और Urban विकास and संयुक्त राज्य Department of दिग्गजों Affairs have a special खण्ड 8 program पुकारा VASH ( दिग्गजों अफेयर्स Supportive आवास ), or hud-vash, which gives आउट a certain क्रमांक of खण्ड 8 वाउचर to योग्य बेघर and otherwise vulnerable us हथियारबंद forces veterans.
रेस्तरां categorized by type and सूचना about ये अलग प्रकार.
u.S. संघीय Reserve notes in the mid-1990s
The इतिहास of the United States डालर कवर more than 200 years.
