A partly submerged हिमानी cave on Perito मोरेनो हिमानी.
the बर्फ मुखाग्र is approximately 60 m high
Ice formations in the titlis glacier cave
A हिमानी गुफा is a cave formed within the बर्फ of a glacier.
हिमानी गुफाएं हैं प्रायः पुकारा ice गुफाएं, but इस term is properly प्रयुक्त to describe bedrock गुफाएं that contain year-round बर्फ.
in भौतिकी, गोलाकार गति is a movement of an ऑब्जेक्ट along the circumference of a वृत्त or rotation साथ a circular पाथ.
it can be uniform, साथ constant angular रेट of rotation ( और निरंतर गति ), or non-uniform साथ a बदलना rate of रोटेशन.
the rotation around a फिक्स्ड axis of a three-dimensional body involves circular गति of इसके भाग.
the equations of गति describe the movement of the center of द्रव्यमान of a देह.
उदाहरण of गोलाकार गति शामिल : an कृत्रिम satellite orbiting the Earth at निरंतर ऊँचाई, a स्टोन जिससे is tied to a rope and is being swung in वृत्त, a car turning through a वक्र in a race track, an इलेक्ट्रॉन चलती लम्बवत to a वर्दी चुम्बकीय field, and a गियर turning inside a mechanism.
Since the ऑब्जेक्ट 's गति वेक्टर is constantly changing direction, the चलती ऑब्जेक्ट is undergoing त्वरण by a centripetal force in the दिशा of the बीच of रोटेशन.
बगैर this त्वरण, the object होता move in a सीधा लकीर, according to Newton 's laws of गति.
अपोलो Creed is a fictional अक्षर from the रॉकी films, initially portrayed as the Undisputed हेवीवेट चैंपियन of the संसार.
He was played by कार्ल Weathers.
Creed had अनेक nicknames, सहित the Master of विपत्ति, The King of स्टिंग, the नाचना विनाशक, the Prince of पंच, the एक और Only और The Count of मोंटे Fisto.
Urban लेजेंड राज्य कि अपोलो पंथ 's name is a wordplay on the रसूलों ' पंथ, a बयान of belief used in Christian चर्च.
सब of अपोलो 's चैंपियनशिप झगड़े यहूद अनुसूचित लिये the 15 round distance.
Championship झगड़े did नहीं बदलें from 15 rounds to 12 rounds जबतक 1987.
Rocky बाल्बोआ is प्रायः wrongly credited with popularizing the रेड, श्वेत, and ब्लू trunks ; Creed थी the first man to पहनें them ( latterly worn by Rocky बाल्बोआ in the 3rd and 4th किश्तों and finally by टॉमी `` The Machine '' gunn ( टॉमी Morrison ) in the 5th किश्त ) हालांकि normally he पहना रेड and श्वेत, as देखी in रॉकी II.
बाल्बोआ 's हस्ताक्षर रंगों यहूद ब्लैक और gold—colors he प्रयुक्त in the latest movie.
In the संयुक्त राज्य, the title of संघीय न्यायधीश प्रायः means a न्यायधीश नियुक्त by the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य और confirmed by the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट pursuant to the Appointments Clause in आलेख II of the संयुक्त राज्य Constitution.
In जोड to the परम् अदालत of the United राज्य, जिनकी existence और some aspects of whose क्षेत्राधिकार are परे the constitutional शक्ति of कॉंग्रेस to alter, अधिनियमों of कॉंग्रेस have स्थापित 13 न्यायालयों of appeals ( भी पुकारा `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over अलग regions of the संयुक्त States, and 94 संयुक्त राज्य ज़िला न्यायालयों.
Every न्यायधीश नियुक्त to ऐसे a court may be categorized as a संघीय judge ; such स्थितियाँ शामिल the Chief Justice और संबद्ध justices of the परम् अदालत, सर्किट Judges of the courts of appeals, and ज़िला न्यायाधीशों of the संयुक्त राज्य district न्यायालयों.
All of these judges वर्णित यूँ far हैं referred to sometimes as `` आलेख iii judges '' because वे कसरत the judicial शक्ति vested in the judicial branch of the संघीय government by आलेख iii of the u.S. संविधान.
in जोड, judges of the Court of International व्यापार exercise judicial शक्ति pursuant to आलेख III.
अन्य judges serving in the संघीय न्यायालयों, सहित मजिस्ट्रेट judges और दिवालियापन न्यायाधीशों, are also sometimes referred to as `` संघीय judges '' ; however, they हैं neither नियुक्त by the अध्यक्ष nor पुष्टि by the सीनेट, and उनके power गर्भाशयी इससे Article I बजाय.
देखिए आलेख i और Article iii अधिकरणों.
The Beretta 21a Bobcat is a छोटी pocket-sized semi-automatic पिस्टल designed by beretta in Italy.
Production began in लेट 1984, solely in the beretta u.s.A. facility in accokeek, Maryland.
It is a further विकास of the beretta मॉडल 20, whose उत्पादन ended in 1985.
परिवर्तनीय Universal जीवन बीमे ( प्रायः shortened to VUL ) is a प्रकार of जीवन insurance that builds a नकदी value.
in a vul, the नकदी value can be invested in a wide किस्में of पृथक accounts, similar to परस्पर funds, and the choice of जिससे of the उपलब्धियाँ separate accounts to use is entirely up to the अनुबंध owner.
the 'variable ' घटक in the नाम refers to इस ability to invest in पृथक accounts whose मान vary—they vary because वे हैं invested in भण्डार and/or bond बाज़ार.
The 'universal ' component in the नाम refers to the flexibility the मालिक रै in बनाना प्रीमियम payments.
the premiums can vary इससे nothing in a दिए month up to maximums पारिभाषित by the आतंरिक आय कोड लिये जीवन insurance.
इस flexibility is in कंट्रास्ट to whole life insurance that रै fixed प्रीमियम payments कि typically can नहीं be छूटी बगैर lapsing the नीति ( although एक may exercise an स्वचालित Premium ऋण feature, or surrender dividends to pay a Whole जीवन प्रीमियम ).
Variable सार्वभौमिक life is a प्रकार of स्थाई life बीमे, क्युकी the मौत benefit होगा be सशुल्क if the insured मरता कोई समय as long as there is sufficient cash मान to अदा the लागत of बीमे in the नीति.
With सबसे if not सब VULs, नापसंद पूरे जीवन, वहीँ is no endowment आयु ( the age at जिससे the नकदी मान बराबरी the मौत लाभ राशि, which लिये whole जीवन is typically 100 ).
इस is yet another key advantage of vul over पूरे जीवन.
साथ a ठेठ पूरे life नीति, the death benefit is limited to the face राशि निर्दिष्ट in the नीति, और at endowment age, the face राशि is all कि is paid आउट.
Thus with either death or endowment, the insurance कम्पनी keeps कोई cash value निर्मित up over the सालो.
however, कुछ participating पूरे life policies प्रस्ताव riders which specify कि any dividends सशुल्क on the नीति be प्रयुक्त to खरीदें `` paid up परिवर्धन '' to the नीति जिससे बढ़ाएँ both the नकदी मान और the death लाभ over समय.
if investments बना in the separate खाते out-perform the सामान्य खाता of the बीमे company, a उच्चतर rate-of-return can occur than the फिक्स्ड rates-of-return ठेठ for पूरे जीवन.
The संयोजन over the सालो of no endowment आयु, continually increasing death लाभ, और if a ऊँची rate-of-return is earned in the पृथक accounts of a VUL policy, this could परिणाम in higher value to the owner or लाभार्थी than कि of a पूरे जीवन policy साथ the same amounts of money सशुल्क in as प्रीमियम.
the बाहरी लकडी boiler is a रूपांतर of the classic wood stove adapted for set-up बाहरी while स्टिल transferring the heat to आंतरिक buildings.
A mound of लड़की Scout cookies.
This mound contains 74 बाक्स of कुकीज़
लड़की स्काउट Cookies are cookies बेची by लड़की Scouts of the USA ( GSUSA ) as एक of its प्रमुख fundraisers for लोकल स्काउट units.
Members of the GSUSA have been selling कुकीज़ चूंकि 1917 to उठाएँ funds.
लड़कियों who participate can earn पुरस्कार for उनके प्रयत्न.
There हैं भी unit प्रोत्साहन if the ईकाई as a whole does well.
As of 2007, बिक्री यहूद estimated at परिचय 200 लाख boxes per year.
University हॉल
purdue विश्वविद्यालयों, located in West lafayette, इंडियाना, is the फ्लैगशिप university of the six-campus purdue विश्वविद्यालयों प्रणाली.
Purdue was संस्थापित on may 6, 1869, as a land-grant विश्वविद्यालयों जब the इंडियाना सामान्य सभा, लेने advantage of the morrill अधिनियम, accepted a दान of जमीन और money इससे lafayette businessman जॉन Purdue to establish a कॉलेज of science, प्रौद्योगिकी, और कृषि in his नाम.
the पहला classes यहूद आयोजित on सितंबर 16, 1874, with six instructors और 39 विद्यार्थी.
आज, purdue is a member of the बिग टेन सम्मेलन, और is a well ज्ञात world-class research संस्था.
purdue enrolls the दूसरी largest छात्र देह of कोई विश्वविद्यालयों in इंडियाना as well as the fourth largest अंतरराष्ट्रीय student population of कोई university in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Purdue offers दोनो undergraduate और ग्रैजुएट कार्यक्रम in over 211 major areas of पढ़ाई, and is well ज्ञात for its competitive engineering curricula.
The university रै भी महरूम highly influential in America 's history of विमानन, having established the पहला कॉलेज क्रेडिट offered in flight प्रशिक्षण, the first four-year bachelor 's degree in विमानन, and the first विश्वविद्यालयों विमानक्षेत्र ( purdue विश्वविद्यालयों Airport ).
Purdue 's विमानन प्रौद्योगिकी कार्यक्रम remains एक of the सबसे competitive aviation-specific कार्यक्रम in the world.
in the mid-20th सदी, Purdue 's विमानन कार्यक्रम विस्तारित to encompass उन्नत spaceflight प्रौद्योगिकी giving rise to purdue 's उपनाम, Cradle of astronauts.
twenty-three Purdue graduates have गए on to become astronauts, including गस Grissom ( एक of the असली पारा सात astronauts ), Neil आर्मस्ट्रांग ( the पहला person to चलना on the moon ), and यूजीन cernan ( the most हाल व्यक्ति to चलना on the चंद्रमा ).
a sebaceous गाँठ ( ) is a term कि loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( भी ज्ञात as epidermal cysts ; L72.0 ) or पिलर cysts ( also ज्ञात as trichilemmal cysts ; l72.1 ).
क्युकी an epidermoid गाँठ originates in the epidermis और a pilar गाँठ originates इससे बाल follicles, by परिभाषा, neither प्रकार of cyst is सख्ती a sebaceous cyst.
the name is regarded as a misnomer as the वसीय, white, semi-solid सामग्री in both of these गाँठ entities is not sebum, लकिन keratin.
Furthermore, under the microscope neither एंटिटी contains वसामय glands.
in practice, however, the शर्तें हैं often used interchangeably.
`` सच्चा '' sebaceous cysts हैं relatively rare और are known as steatocystomas or, if अनेक, as steatocystoma मल्टीप्लेक्स.
आधुनिक pointe जूते.
the किनारे of the toe pad, जिससे is inserted between the पैर and toe box for cushioning, can be देखी on the right पैर.
a pointe जूता is a प्रकार of जूता worn by बैले dancers जब performing pointe कार्य.
pointe जूते developed from the ख्वाहिश लिये नर्तक to appear weightless और sylph -like और have विकसित to enable dancers to dance en pointe ( on the नुस्ख़े of उनके toes ) लिये विस्तारित अवधि of समय.
वे हैं normally worn by मादा dancers, हालांकि पुरूष नर्तक may पहनें them लिये अपरंपरागत roles ऐसे as the भद्दा stepsisters in Cinderella, नीचे in A midsummer Night 's Dream, or मेन performing as महिलाओं in dance कंपनियाँ such as लेस नाटिकाओं Trockadero and grandiva.
वे हैं manufactured in a किस्में of रंगों, most commonly in शेड्स of light गुलाबी.
इस tablespoon रै a क्षमता of परिचय 15 ml.
Measuring spoons
in the us and parts of कनाडा, a tablespoon is the largest प्रकार of चमचा used for eating from a कटोरी.
in the uk, Europe और most राष्ट्रमंडल देशों, a tablespoon is a type of large चमचा प्रायः प्रयुक्त for सेवारत.
in देशों जहाँ a tablespoon is a सेवारत spoon, the निकटतम equivalent to the us tablespoon is either the मिठाई spoon or the soup चमचा.
a tablespoonful, nominally the capacity of one tablespoon, is commonly प्रयुक्त as a measure of volume in cooking.
it is abbreviated as T, tb, tbs, tbsp, tblsp, or tblspn.
the capacity of ordinary tablespoons is नहीं regulated by law and is विषय to considerable variation.
in the USA one tablespoon ( measurement ईकाई ) is approximately 15 mL ; the capacity of an actual tablespoon ( dining utensil ) ranges इससे 7 mL to 14 mL.
In ऑस्ट्रेलिया एक tablespoon ( मापन ईकाई ) is 20 mL.
Harry कुम्हार is a श्रेणी of seven fantasy novels written by the अंग्रेजों author J. K. Rowling.
The किताबे वृत्तान्त the adventures of a जादूगर, Harry Potter, and his मित्रों Ronald वीज़्ली और हर्माइनी ग्रेंजर, सब of जिसको हैं students at Hogwarts स्कूल of चुड़ैल and Wizardry.
the प्रमुख story चाप concerns Harry 's quest to overcome the अंधेरा wizard रब Voldemort, जिनकी aims हैं to become अमर, conquer the wizarding world, subjugate non-magical people, and destroy सब those who stand in his रास्ता, especially Harry Potter.
चूंकि the release of the first novel हैरी Potter और the Philosopher 's Stone on 30 जून 1997, the किताबे have gained immense लोकप्रियता, नाजुक acclaim और commercial कामयाबी worldwide.
the श्रेणी रै भी था some share of criticism, including चिंता लिये the increasingly अंधेरा टोन.
, the किताब series has बेची परिचय 450 million copies, making it the best-selling किताब श्रेणी in इतिहास, and रै been अनूदित into 67 languages.
the पिछला चार books consecutively नियत records as the fastest-selling किताबे in इतिहास.
a श्रेणी of many जाति, सहित काल्पनिक and coming of age ( साथ elements of रहस्य, thriller, adventure, and रोमांस ), it रै many सांस्कृतिक meanings and references.
According to Rowling, the प्रमुख थीम is death.
There are भी अनेक other विषयवस्तु in the series, ऐसे as पूर्वाग्रह and भ्रष्टाचार.
the आरंभिक प्रमुख प्रकाशक of the books were Bloomsbury in the संयुक्त Kingdom and Scholastic दबायें in the संयुक्त States.
the books have चूंकि महरूम published by अनेक प्रकाशक विश्वव्यापी.
the किताबे, साथ the सातवाँ किताब विभाजित into two parts, have been बना into an eight-part फिल्मी श्रेणी by warner भाईs. तस्वीरें, the highest-grossing फिल्मी श्रेणी of all समय.
the series भी originated much tie-in merchandise, बनाना the हैरी कुम्हार ब्रांड लायक in excess of $ 15 अरब.
भी due to the success of the किताबे and films, हैरी Potter रै महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये a थीम पार्क, The wizarding संसार of Harry कुम्हार in सार्वभौमिक Parks & Resorts 's Islands of Adventure.
rs-68 होने tested at NASA 's stennis स्पेस बीच.
The nearly transparent exhaust is due to इस इंजन 's exhaust होने mostly अतितप्त भाप ( water वाष्प from इसके propellants, हाइड्रोजन और oxygen )
viking 5c rocket इंजन
A rocket engine, or simply `` प्रक्षेपास्त्र '', is a jet इंजन कि uses only भंडारित propellant द्रव्यमान for forming its high गति propulsive जेट.
Rocket engines are प्रतिक्रिया इंजन and obtain thrust in accordance साथ न्यूटन 's तीसरा विधि.
चूंकि वे need no बाह्य सामग्री to form उनके जेट, प्रक्षेपास्त्र इंजन can be प्रयुक्त for spacecraft नोदन as well as स्थलीय उपयोग, such as मिसाइलें.
सबसे प्रक्षेपास्त्र engines हैं आतंरिक combustion इंजन, हालांकि non-combusting फ़ॉर्म भी exist.
प्रक्षेपास्त्र इंजन as a समूह have the उच्चतम exhaust गतियाँ, हैं by far the lightest, but हैं the तनिक propellant कुशल of all types of jet engines.
``... Baby One अधिक Time '' is a सोंग by American recording कलाकार britney स्पीयर्स.
it परोसा as Spears 's debut सिंगल and शीर्षक track from उसके डेब्यू स्टुडियो एल्बम,... baby एक More Time ( 1999 ).
Written by अधिकतम Martin और produced by Martin और रामी, ``... Baby एक अधिक समय '' was released on September 30, 1998, by Jive Records.
बाद recording and sending a डेमो टेप साथ an अप्रयुक्त सोंग इससे toni braxton, स्पीयर्स signed a multi-album deal साथ Jive.
``... Baby एक अधिक Time '' is a टीन pop and dance-pop सोंग कि refers to a girl who संताप तोड़कर up with her boyfriend.
the सोंग प्राप्त generally अनुकूल reviews इससे critics, who praised इसके composition.
``... baby One अधिक समय '' attained global success, reaching number एक in प्रत्येक देश it charted.
It भी प्राप्त numerous certifications around the संसार, and is one of the best-selling singles of all समय, साथ over 10 लाख नक़ल बेची.
an accompanying music video, directed by निगेल Dick, portrays स्पीयर्स as a छात्र from a कैथोलिक high स्कूल, जो starts to daydream that she is गायन और dancing around the स्कूल, while watching उसके love ब्याज from अफ़ार.
the music video was later referenced in the म्यूज़िक video of `` if u Seek एमी `` ( 2008 ), जहाँ Spears 's fictional बेटी is dressed with a समान schoolgirl outfit while wearing गुलाबी ribbons in उसके hair.
In 2010, the म्यूज़िक वीडियो लिये ``... Baby एक अधिक समय '' थी voted the तीसरा most influential वीडियो in the इतिहास of पॉप music, in a पोल आयोजित by Jam !.
Spears रै performed ``... baby One More Time '' in a number of सजीव दिखावे और in all of उसके कॉन्सर्ट टुर.
it थी the encore of the... baby एक More Time दौरे ( 1999 ) and Dream Within a सपना Tour ( 2001 ) ; स्पीयर्स also performed remixed संस्करण of the सोंग दौरान the उफ़ !...
I किया It again World दौरे ( 2000 ), The Onyx होटल दौरे ( 2004 ), The m+m 's Tour ( 2007 ), the सर्कस अभिनीत Britney Spears ( 2009 ), और the Femme Fatale Tour ( 2011 ).
``... Baby One अधिक समय '' थी मनोनीत for a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Female पॉप गायन Performance, और रै been included in सूचियाँ by Blender, रोलिंग स्टोन और VH1.
it रै महरूम noted लिये redefining the sound of लेट 1990s म्यूज़िक.
Spears रै नामित ``... baby एक अधिक समय '' as one of उसके पसंदीदा गीतों इससे उसके करियर.
it थी भी the फाइनल song to be निभाई on the बीबीसी 's म्यूज़िक programme शीर्ष of the चबूतरे.
हैजा is an संक्रमण in the small intestine caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae.
The प्रमुख symptoms हैं watery अतिसार and उल्टी.
Transmission occurs primarily by पीने water or eating खाना कि रै been contaminated by the feces ( बर्बाद उत्पाद ) of an संक्रमित व्यक्ति, including एक with no apparent symptoms.
the गंभीरता of the diarrhea और उल्टी can सीसे to रैपिड निर्जलीकरण और electrolyte imbalance, और death in some cases.
the primary उपचार is मौखिक rehydration therapy, typically with oral rehydration समाधान, to बदलें water और electrolytes.
if इस is नहीं tolerated or does नहीं provide सुधार तेज़ पर्याप्त, intravenous fluids can भी be प्रयुक्त.
जीवाणुरोधी drugs हैं फायदेमंद in those with severe बीमारी to shorten its अवधि और गंभीरता.
Worldwide, it affects 3–5 million लोगों and causes 100,000–130,000 deaths a year.
Cholera थी एक of the earliest infections to be studied by epidemiological विधि.
the चित्र of डोरियन Gray is the only published अनोखा by ऑस्कर Wilde, appearing as the सीसे story in lippincott 's मासिक पत्रिका on 20 June 1890, मुद्रित as the जुलाई 1890 समस्या of इस magazine.
the पत्रिका 's सम्पादक feared the story थी अभद्र as सुपुर्द, so they censored roughly 500 words, without वाइल्ड 's ज्ञान, पहले publication.
लकिन भी with कि, the स्टोरी was स्टिल greeted साथ आक्रोश by British reviewers, कुछ of जिसको suggested कि वाइल्ड चाहिए be prosecuted on moral grounds, अग्रणी वाइल्ड to बचाव the novel aggressively in अक्षर to the अंग्रेजों दबायें.
Wilde बाद संशोधित the स्टोरी for book publication, बनाना substantial alterations, हटाना controversial passages, adding new chapters और including an aphoristic preface जिससे रै चूंकि become famous in इसके अपना सही.
The amended संस्करण थी published by वार्ड, Lock और कम्पनी in April 1891.
कुछ विद्वानों believe that वाइल्ड होता आज have wanted us to पढ़ा the संस्करण he originally submitted to lippincott 's.
the अनोखा tells of a यंग man named डोरियन धूसर, the subject of a painting by artist बेसिल Hallward.
Basil is impressed by डोरियन 's सौंदर्य और becomes infatuated with him, believing उसके सौंदर्य is responsible for a नई विधि in उसके आर्ट.
डोरियन meets रब Henry wotton, a dost of Basil 's, और becomes enthralled by Lord हेनरी 's संसार दृश्य.
espousing a नई hedonism, रब हेनरी suggests the only बाते लायक pursuing in जीवन हैं beauty और fulfilment of the होश.
Realizing कि one दिन his beauty will fade, Dorian ( whimsically ) expresses a ख्वाहिश to sell his आत्मा to ensure the पोर्ट्रेट बेसिल has painted would आयु बल्कि than he.
Dorian 's काश is fulfilled, and जब he subsequently pursues a जीवन of विलासिता, the portrait serves as a reminder of the प्रभाव each अधिनियम रै upon उसके आत्मा, साथ प्रत्येक sin प्रदर्शित as a disfigurement of his रूप, or through a sign of वृद्धावस्था.
The चित्र of डोरियन धूसर is माना a work of क्लासिक गोथिक fiction साथ a दमदार faustian theme.
Sári gábor ( born 6 फ़रवरी 1917 ), ज्ञात as ज़ा Zsa गैबर ( ), is a हंगेरियाई -born अमरीकी actress who acted in supporting roles in फिल्मों, on Broadway, और occasionally on टेलीविज़न.
गैबर थी भी a socialite.
वो began her stage career in वियना at age 15, और थी पहनाया Miss हंगेरियाई in 1936.
वो emigrated to the संयुक्त राज्य in 1941 and became a sought-after अभिनेत्री with `` European फ्लेयर and स्टाइल '', साथ a व्यक्तित्व कि `` exuded charm and अनुग्रह ''.
Her first movie भूमिका थी as supporting actress in Lovely to dekh At.
She later acted in We 're नहीं शादीशुदा !
and निभाई एक of her few अग्रणी roles in moulin रूज ( 1952 ), निर्देशित by जॉन हस्टन, जो वर्णित उसके as a `` creditable '' actress.
Besides her film और टेलीविज़न appearances, she is best ज्ञात for having nine पतियों, सहित hotel महारथी कोनराड हिल्टन और actor George सैंडर्स.
वो एकबार stated, `` Men have always liked me और I have सदा liked मेन.
But I जैसे a mannish man, a man जो knows कैसा to बात to and treat a स्त्री – नहीं बस a man साथ मांसपेशियां. ''
Bruce Lee ( परंपरागत : 李小龍 ; born ली jun-fan ; 27 नवम्बर 1940 – 20 जुलाई 1973 ) थी a Chinese American martial artist, actor, martial कला instructor, पारस, और filmmaker.
the founder of Jeet kune Do, ली was the son of Cantonese ओपेरा स्टार ली hoi-chuen.
He is widely considered by commentators, critics, मीडिया और अन्य martial कलाकारों to be एक of the सबसे influential martial कलाकारों of सब time, और a पॉप culture icon of the 20th सदी.
he is प्रायः credited साथ helping to बदलें the रास्ता Asians यहूद प्रस्तुत in अमरीकी films.
Lee थी born in Chinatown, San Francisco on 27 November 1940 to parents इससे Hong Kong और was उठाया in कोलून साथ his परिवार जबतक उसके late teens.
He थी introduced to the film उद्योग by his father और appeared in अनेक films as a चाइल्ड कर्ता.
ली स्थानांतरित to the United States at the age of 18 to प्राप्त his उच्चतर शिक्षा, और it थी during this time that he began शिक्षण martial कला.
उसके Hong काँग and Hollywood -उपजd films elevated the परंपरागत हांग Kong martial कला film to a नई level of लोकप्रियता and acclaim, sparking a surge of ब्याज in चाइनीज martial arts in the वेस्ट in the 1970s.
The दिशा और टोन of उसके films changed और influenced martial arts and martial arts films in Hong काँग और the बाकी of the संसार.
He is noted लिये उसके roles in पाँच feature-length films : Lo Wei 's The Big Boss ( 1971 ) और Fist of फ़्यूरी ( 1972 ) ; रास्ता of the ड्रैगन ( 1972 ), निर्देशित और लिखा by ली ; Warner Brothers ' डालें the Dragon ( 1973 ) और the खेल of Death ( 1978 ), दोनो निर्देशित by Robert clouse.
Lee became an iconic figure ज्ञात throughout the world, विशेषकर among the चाइनीज, as he portrayed चाइनीज राष्ट्रवाद in his films.
he initially trained in Wing Chun, but बाद अस्वीकृत well-defined martial आर्ट शैलियाँ, favouring बजाय the उपयोग of तकनीकों इससे various sources, in the स्पिरिट of उसके निजी martial arts philosophy, which he dubbed जीत kune do ( the रास्ता of the intercepting मुट्ठी ).
ली आयोजित डुअल नागरिकता of Hong काँग और the संयुक्त States.
he died in Kowloon Tong on 20 July 1973 at आयु 32.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary बीमारी ( copd ), भी ज्ञात as दीर्घकालिक obstructive फेफड़ों बीमारी ( ठंडा ), दीर्घकालिक obstructive airway बीमारी ( COAD ), दीर्घकालिक airflow limitation ( कैलोरी ) and दीर्घकालिक obstructive respiratory disease ( cord ), is the occurrence of दीर्घकालिक ब्रोंकाइटिस or emphysema, a जोड़ी of commonly co-existing diseases of the lungs in which the एयरवेज़ सीमित over समय.
इस हद airflow to और इससे the फेफड़े, causing shortness of breath ( dyspnea ).
in clinical practice, copd is defined by इसके characteristically कम airflow on फेफड़ों फलन tests.
In कंट्रास्ट to दमा, इस limitation is poorly reversible and प्रायः gets progressively बदतर over time.
copd is caused by noxious particles or गैस, सबसे commonly इससे तम्बाकू smoking, जिससे triggers an abnormal inflammatory जवाब in the lung.
The diagnosis of copd requires lung function tests.
Important management रणनीति are smoking cessation, vaccinations, पुनर्वास, और ड्रग therapy ( often using inhalers ).
कुछ patients go on to require long-term ऑक्सीजन चिकित्सा or lung प्रत्यारोपण.
Worldwide, copd क्रमित as the छठे अग्रणी कारण of मौत in 1990.
It is प्रक्षिप्त to become the चौथी अग्रणी cause of मौत worldwide by 2030, due to an बढ़ाएँ in smoking दरों और जनसांख्यिकी परिवर्तन in अनेक देशों.
COPD is the third अग्रणी कारण of death in the u.S., और the economic बोझ of copd in the u.S. in 2007 थी $ 42.6 billion in स्वास्थ्य परवाह costs and खोया उत्पादकता.
annelies `` Anne '' मारी Frank (, ?, ; 12 June 1929early March 1945 ) is one of the सबसे discussed Jewish victims of the holocaust.
उसके diary रै महरूम the basis लिये several plays और films.
born in the city of Frankfurt am प्रमुख in वाइमर Germany, she जिया most of उसके जीवन in or near एम्सटर्डम, in the नीदरलैंड्स.
born a जर्मनी national, फ़्रैंक lost उसके नागरिकता in 1941.
She gained अंतरराष्ट्रीय कीर्ति मरणोपरांत बाद उसके diary was प्रकाशित.
it दस्तावेज़ उसके experiences hiding during the German occupation of the नीदरलैंड्स in संसार युद्ध II.
The Frank परिवार moved इससे Germany to एम्सटर्डम in 1933, the year the nazis gained control over जर्मनी.
by the beginning of 1940, वे were trapped in एम्सटर्डम by the नाजी occupation of the Netherlands.
as persecutions of the Jewish जनसांख्यिकी increased in July 1942, the परिवार गई into hiding in the छुपा कक्ष of ऐनी 's father, ओटो फ़्रैंक 's, दफ्तर भवन.
After two years, the समूह थी गद्दारी और transported to concentration शिविरों.
Anne Frank and उसके सिस्टर, margot, were आखिरकार transferred to the bergen-belsen विशेषज्ञता camp, जहाँ they died of सन्निपात in March 1945.
ओटो फ़्रैंक, the only survivor of the family, returned to Amsterdam बाद the war to find कि Anne 's डायरी had महरूम saved, और his प्रयत्न led to इसके प्रकाशन in 1947.
it was translated from its original डच और first published in अंग्रेज़ी in 1952 as The Diary of a Young लड़की.
it रै since महरूम अनूदित into अनेक भाषाएं.
the diary, which was दिए to ऐनी on her 13th जन्मदिवस, chronicles उसके जीवन from 12 June 1942 until 1 August 1944.
कर्ट 's signature
Kurt Donald कोबेन ( फ़रवरी 20, 1967 – अप्रैल 5, 1994 ) थी an अमरीकी musician और कलाकार, best known as the सीसे सिंगर, guitarist और primary songwriter of the grunge बैंड Nirvana.
कोबेन formed निर्वाण साथ krist novoselic in एबरडीन, वॉशिंगटन in 1985 और स्थापित it as part of the सिएटल music झाँकी, having इसके debut album Bleach released on the independent रिकार्ड label Sub पॉप in 1989.
बाद signing साथ प्रमुख लेबल DGC रिकॉर्ड, the band मिला भेदन कामयाबी with `` खुश्बू Like Teen स्पिरिट `` इससे its दूसरी एल्बम nevermind ( 1991 ).
following the कामयाबी of Nevermind, निर्वाण थी labeled `` the फ्लैगशिप band '' of पीढी x, and कोबेन hailed as `` the spokesman of a पीढी ''.
Cobain, however, थी प्रायः uncomfortable and कुंठित, believing his message और artistic दृष्टि to have महरूम misinterpreted by the public, with उसके निजी मुद्दे often subject to मीडिया ध्यान.
He challenged निर्वाण 's audience साथ इसके final studio एल्बम in utero ( 1993 ).
दौरान the पिछला years of उसके जीवन, कोबेन struggled साथ हेरोइन addiction, illness और अवसाद.
he भी था difficulty coping साथ उसके कीर्ति and पब्लिक चित्र, and the professional and lifelong personal pressures surrounding खुद और his wife, संगीतकार Courtney Love.
On अप्रैल 8, 1994, कोबेन थी मिला dead at उसके home in सिएटल, the victim of what थी officially शासित a आत्महत्या by a self-inflicted shotgun घाव to the head.
the circumstances of his मौत at age 27 have become a topic of पब्लिक fascination and बहस.
Since उनके डेब्यू, निर्वाण, साथ Cobain as a songwriter, has बेची over 25 लाख albums in the u.S., and over 50 million विश्वव्यापी.
रेडियल engine timing और कैम mechanism.
Click लिये पूरा रेज़ोल्यूशन एनिमेशन.
रेडियल इंजन of a बाईप्लेन
निपुण rod ( upright ), स्लेव और balances from a two-row, fourteen-cylinder pratt & Whitney जुड़वा Wasp
the radial engine is a प्रत्यागमनी प्रकार internal दहन इंजन विन्यास in जिससे the cylinders पाइंट outward from a सेंट्रल crankshaft like the spokes of a wheel.
it resembles a stylized star जब viewed इससे the सामने, and is called a `` star engine '' ( German sternmotor ) in कुछ भाषाएं.
The रेडियल configuration थी बहुत commonly used in aircraft इंजन पहले टर्बाइन इंजन became predominant.
the Golden लड़कियों is an अमरीकी sitcom, created by सुसान Harris, that originally aired on NBC इससे सितंबर 13, 1985, to May 9, 1992.
Starring bea Arthur, Betty श्वेत, Rue mcclanahan और Estelle getty, the दिखाएँ centers on चार older महिलाओं sharing a घर in Miami, फ्लोरिडा.
it थी उत्पादित by witt/thomas/harris प्रोडक्शन्स, in संघ साथ touchstone टेलीविज़न, और Paul Junger witt, टोनी थामस, और हैरिस served as the original कार्यपालिका producers.
The Golden लड़कियों received नाजुक acclaim throughout most of इसके चलाएं and जीती अनेक पुरस्कार, including the प्राइमटाइम Emmy पुरस्कार for बकाया कॉमेडी श्रेणी twice.
It also जीती three सुनहरी ग्लोब Awards लिये बेहतरीन टेलीविज़न Series – musical or कॉमेडी.
सब चार सितारों each प्राप्त an एमी Award throughout the series ' चलाएं and had multiple nominations.
the series भी ranked among the शीर्ष टेन highest-rated कार्यक्रम लिये छह आउट of its सात seasons.
deepwater खुदाई is the process of आयल और गैस खोजी और उत्पादन in depths of more than 500 फीट.
By this परिभाषा, there हैं लगभग 600 deepwater कुएं in the Gulf of मैक्सिको.
it has महरूम economically infeasible लिये many सालो, but साथ उठती oil prices, अधिक कंपनियाँ are निवेश in this क्षेत्रफल.
प्रमुख कंपनियाँ working in this sector शामिल Diamond Offshore, TransOcean, and Baker ह्यूजेस.
There हैं basically two kinds of मोबाईल deepwater drilling rigs : semi-submersible खुदाई rigs and drillships.
खुदाई can also be performed from a fixed-position installation ऐसे as a फ्लोटिंग spar ( मंच ) or tension-leg platform.
Recent उद्योग विश्लेषण रै अनुमानित that the total expenditure in the वैश्विक deepwater infrastructure मार्केट होगा पहुँचें $ 145bn in 2011.
“Not सब आयल is accessible on जमीन or in उथले जल.
तुम can ढूँढें कुछ आयल जमा दफ्न गहन अंतर्गत the समंदर floor.”... using sonic उपकरण, आयल companies determine the खुदाई साइट सबसे likely to उपज आयल.
तब वे use a मोबाईल offshore drilling ईकाई ( मोदू ) to खुदाई the आरंभिक खूब.
Some इकाई हैं परिवर्तित into उत्पादन rigs, meaning they स्विच from खुदाई लिये आयल to capturing oil once it 's मिला.
सबसे of the time, the oil कम्पनी will replace the मोदू with a अधिक स्थाई आयल production रिग to कैप्चर oil.”... The मोदू 's जॉब is to ड्रिल bas into the ocean 's मंजिल to ढूँढें आयल deposits.
the part of the ड्रिल that extends below the deck और through the जल is पुकारा the riser.
the riser allows for खुदाई fluids to मूव between the मंजिल and the rig.
इंजीनियर्स निम्नतर a ड्रिल string -- a श्रेणी of pipes designed to ड्रिल bas to the आयल deposit -- through the riser.”
“the विस्तार of deepwater खुदाई is happening despite दुर्घटनाओं in offshore फ़ील्ड... ”
in 2010 a large विस्फोट occurred killing 11 workers और spilling लाखो of गैलन of oil into the गल्फ of मैक्सिको जबकि a BP oil रिग थी drilling in deep waters.
“... despite the risks, the deepwater खुदाई trend is spreading in the भूमध्यसागरीय and बंद the coast of ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी after a string of विशाल discoveries of प्राकृतिक gas.”
“The कारण लिये the resumption of ऐसे drilling, analyst say, is continuing high माँग for उर्जा worldwide.”
America needs the आयल so it is almost necessary to face the ऊँची risks कि come with deepwater drilling in अनुक्रम लिये अमेरिकी to continue to carry on their रोज जीवनदान.
“the उर्जा विभाग recently projected कि गल्फ आयल उत्पादन होता विस्तार इससे इसके 2011 स्तर of 1.3 लाख barrels a day, still nearly a क्वार्टर of कुल घरेलू production, to 2 लाख barrels a day by 2020.”
deepwater खुदाई affects the environment in दोनो negative and धनात्मक ways.
हालांकि deepwater खुदाई rarely कल्याणकारी आयल spills it is still a hazardous संभावित निष्कर्ष.
Oil spills result in oil sinking to the bottom of the ocean smothering संयंत्र जीवन leaving fish without food and आश्रय to जीवित.
On the अन्य hand deepwater खुदाई प्रभाव the environment in a positive ways too.
in समय once the deepwater आयल well is नहीं in उपयोग anymore plants होगा grow on और around the well बनाना a गुफा or cavern like आश्रय आदर्श लिये पशु to thrive in.
deepwater खुदाई also lets us देखिए the depths of the समंदर मंजिल कि are hardly कभी देखी.
”Cameras on रोवर्स at the नीचे of the wells record फुटेज and लो photos of विरल मछली कि हैं in there प्राकृतिक आवास, giving scientist a dekh at पशु वे rarely seen” ( Chevron निगम ). ''
मोनिका Samille lewinsky ( born जुलाई 23, 1973 ) is an अमरीकी woman साथ whom संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्ष विधेयक क्लिंटन admitted to having had an `` improper संबंध '' while वो worked at the श्वेत हाउस in 1995 और 1996.
the affair and its repercussions ( which included क्लिंटन 's महाभियोग ) became known as the lewinsky कांड.
फ्रांसिस अल्बर्ट `` फ़्रैंक '' Sinatra,, ( दिसम्बर 12, 1915 – may 14, 1998 ) was an अमरीकी सिंगर और film actor.
Beginning उसके musical career in the झूले era साथ हैरी James और टॉमी dorsey, Sinatra found unprecedented कामयाबी as a सोलो कलाकार from the early to mid-1940s after होने signed to कोलंबिया Records in 1943.
होने the idol of the `` bobby soxers ``, he released his पहला एल्बम, The Voice of फ़्रैंक Sinatra in 1946.
His पेशेवर करियर था stalled by the 1950s, but it was पुनर्जन्म in 1953 बाद he जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Supporting Actor लिये उसके performance in From यहाँ to शाश्वत.
He हस्ताक्षरित साथ Capitol Records in 1953 और released several critically lauded albums ( such as in the मूत छोटी Hours, Songs for swingin ' प्रेमियों !, Come मक्खी with me, तभी the निर्जन and Nice 'n ' आसान ).
सिनात्रा बाएँ कैपिटल to found उसके अपना रिकार्ड लेबल, reprise Records in 1961 ( finding कामयाबी with एल्बम such as Ring-a-Ding-Ding !, सिनात्रा at the sands और फ्रांसिस अल्बर्ट सिनात्रा & अंतोनियो कार्लोस jobim ), toured internationally, was a founding member of the Rat Pack और fraternized साथ हस्तियाँ और statesmen, सहित John F. Kennedy.
सिनात्रा turned 50 in 1965, recorded the retrospective सितंबर of My सालो, स्ट्रक्चर in the एमी -winning टेलीविज़न खास Frank Sinatra : a Man and उसके Music, और scored हिट्स with `` Strangers in the Night `` and `` my रास्ता ``.
साथ sales of उसके music dwindling और बाद appearing in several poorly प्राप्त films, Sinatra रिटायर्ड लिये the पहला समय in 1971.
दो सालो बाद, however, he आए आउट of रिटायरमेंट and in 1973 अंकित several एल्बम, स्कोरिंग a शीर्ष 40 hit with `` ( थीम इससे ) नई यॉर्क, नई यॉर्क `` in 1980.
using his Las वेगास shows as a घर base, he toured दोनो भीतर the संयुक्त States and internationally, until a short समय before उसके death in 1998.
सिनात्रा also forged a highly कामयाब करियर as a film actor.
After winning बेहतरीन Supporting कर्ता in 1953, he also garnered a नामांकन for Best कर्ता for the man साथ the सुनहरी भुजा, and नाजुक acclaim for his performance in The Manchurian प्रत्याशी.
he also starred in such musicals as ऊँची समाज, pal Joey, Guys और डॉल और on the Town.
Sinatra थी सम्मानित at the कैनेडी बीच honors in 1983 और थी awarded the अध्यक्षीय पदक of Freedom by Ronald Reagan in 1985 और the congressional Gold Medal in 1997.
he थी the प्राप्तकर्ता of ग्यारह ग्रैमी Awards, including the Grammy trustees पुरस्कार, Grammy लेजेंड पुरस्कार और the ग्रैमी आजीवन उपलब्धि पुरस्कार.
Sinatra is also एक of world’s best-selling कलाकारों of सब समय, having बेची अधिक than 150 million नक़ल विश्वव्यापी.
ठेठ cornhole board
cornhole, भी ज्ञात as bean थैला toss, मकई टॉस, baggo or बैग, is a lawn game in जिससे players लो turns throwing मकई छेद बैग at a उठाया मंच साथ a छेद in the दूर end.
a थैला in the छेद स्कोर 3 points, while one on the platform scores 1 point.
खेल continues until a टोली or player पहुँच the स्कोर of 21.
the अमरीकी Gold त्रिभुज is an आधिकारिक gold bullion सिक्का of the संयुक्त राज्य.
प्राधिकृत under the Gold Bullion Coin अधिनियम of 1985, it was first released by the United States मिंट in 1986.
बिक्रम Yoga is a system of योग कि बिक्रम Choudhury synthesized from traditional hatha yoga तकनीकों और popularized शुरूआत in the जल्दी 1970s.
सब Bikram योग classes run for 90 minutes and consist of the वही series of 26 postures और 2 breathing exercises.
Bikram योग is ideally practiced in a रूम heated to 105°f ( ≈ 40.6°c ) with a humidity of 40 %,.
क्रिस्टोफर Michael massey ( born 26 जनवरी 1990 ) is an अमरीकी कर्ता, हास्य और rapper best ज्ञात लिये starring as Michael barret in निकलोडियन टेलीविज़न श्रेणी zoey 101.
Massey रै प्राप्त अनेक पुरस्कार और nomination सहित a यंग कलाकार Award और Emmy Awards nominations.
he is also known लिये appearing in अनेक commercials in the जल्दी 2000s.
A conventional teaspoon made of stainless steel.
a teaspoon is an item of cutlery and/or a measuring यंत्र, as खूब as a ईकाई of मापन of आवाज़ in कुछ देशों and कस्टम.
a फर्न is कोई एक or अधिक of a समूह of परिचय 12,000 प्रजाति of पौधे belonging to the वनस्पति समूह ज्ञात as pteridophyta.
Unlike mosses, they have जाइलम and फ्लोएम ( making them vascular पौधे ).
वे have stems, leaves, and roots जैसे other vascular पौधे.
ferns reproduce via बीजाणुओं और have neither बीज nor पुष्प.
by दूर the largest समूह of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns, but ferns as defined here ( भी पुकारा monilophytes ) शामिल horsetails, whisk ferns, marattioid ferns, और ophioglossoid ferns.
the term pteridophyte also refers to ferns और a few अन्य बीजरहित vascular पौधे ( see वर्गीकरण खण्ड नीचे ).
Ferns पहला appear in the fossil record 360 million सालो पहले in the Carboniferous लकिन अनेक of the वर्तमान परिवारों और species किया नहीं appear until roughly 145 million सालो पहले in the जल्दी cretaceous ( बाद flowering पौधे came to dominate many environments ).
ferns are not of प्रमुख आर्थिक महत्व, लकिन कुछ are grown or gathered लिये खाना, as शोभायमान plants, लिये remediating contaminated soils, और have महरूम the subject of research लिये their क्षमता to हटाएँ some रासायनिक pollutants from the air.
कुछ are significant weeds.
They also खेल a भूमिका in mythology, आयुर्विज्ञान, and आर्ट.
चपटा roofs in Israel
Flat छत in Los Angeles
a चपटा छत is a प्रकार of covering लिये a भवन.
in कंट्रास्ट to the अधिक sloped रूप of roof, a चपटा roof is horizontal or nearly आड़ा.
the slope of a roof is properly known as its pitch : roofs जिससे are nearly flat are ज्ञात as low-pitch roofs ( as the कोण of slope increases, so the pitch is said to increase ).
Any sheet of material प्रयुक्त to कवर a चपटा or low-pitched roof is प्रायः known as a झिल्ली और the प्राथमिक purpose of these झिल्लियों is to waterproof the छत area.
सामग्री that cover flat roofs typically allow the water to run बंद इससे a slight inclination or camber into a gutter प्रणाली.
Water from some चपटा roofs such as on garden sheds sometimes बहती freely बंद the edge of a roof, though gutter प्रणालियों हैं of advantage in keeping दोनो दीवारें और मूलाधार शुष्क.
ड्रेनेज on smaller roofs often lead जल directly onto the मैदान, or better, into a विशेषकर बना soakaway.
Gutters on larger roofs प्रायः सीसे water into the rainwater नाले प्रणाली of any built up क्षेत्रफल.
Occasionally flat roofs हालांकि हैं designed to collect जल in a पूल, प्रायः for aesthetic purposes, or लिये rainwater buffering.
Flat roofs मौजूद सब over the संसार and each area रै इसके own परंपरा or preference for materials प्रयुक्त.
in warmer climes where वर्षा is कम और जमने is unlikely to occur, अनेक चपटा roofs हैं बस built of masonry or concrete और इस is शुभ at keeping out the ऊष्मा of the सूर्य and सस्ती और आसान to build where timber is नहीं readily उपलब्धियाँ.
In क्षेत्रों जहाँ the छत could become saturated by बरसात और लीक, or where water soaked into the brickwork could फ्रीज to बर्फ और thus सीसे to 'blowing ' ( breaking up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the विस्तार of ice as it फ़ॉर्म ) ये roofs are नहीं suitable.
Traditionally सबसे चपटा roofs in the western संसार मेक use of तारकोल or more usually तारकोल पेपर लागू over roof decking to keep a building watertight.
The tar or tarpaper is in फेरे covered in gravel to रखना the सूर्य 's heat, UV किरणें और weather बंद it और helps protect it इससे cracking or blistering and degradation.
छत decking is usually of plywood, chipboard or osb boards ( osb = उन्मुख strand फलक, भी ज्ञात as स्टर्लिंग board ) of around 18mm thickness.
The tar कोटिंग is applied in एक or more coats as a hot द्रव, heated in a तारकोल kettle, or as sheets of tar impregnated 'paper ' glued bas और sealed साथ at joints by hot तारकोल - once it रै cooled, the बजरी is स्प्रेड evenly over it.
a प्रमुख कारण लिये failure of ये traditional roofs is ignorance or lack of मेंटेनेंस where लोगों or events कारण the बजरी to be moved or removed इससे the तारकोल or tarpaper waterproofing, यूँ exposing it to मौसम and sun whereupon cracking and blistering occurs over time and आखिरकार water gets in.
Tarpaper is usually a 'paper ' or fibre material soaked or impregnated in तारकोल.
as बजरी can not protect tarpaper सतहों जहाँ they वृद्धि खड़ा इससे the छत such as on मुंडेर walls or upstands, tarpaper विसंगतियाँ हैं produced साथ ठीक बजरी applied to the hot tar दौरान the प्रक्रम of manufacture ऐसे that a स्थाई layer of gravel is stuck to it in अनुक्रम to दे it ongoing सुरक्षा.
tarpapers vary in विशेषता as करता the कारीगरी और training of those applying it to उपज अधिक or less कामयाब results.
in कुछ सूक्ष्म climates or छायांकित areas these बल्कि 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can पिछला खूब in संबंध to the cost of सामग्री खरीदें और लागत of laying them, however the cost of modern membranes such as epdm has आइये bas over हाल सालो to मेक उन्हें more and अधिक सस्ती.
वहीँ हैं now more firms supplying modern विकल्प और वहीँ is generally a growing जागरूकता of उनके प्रदर्शन और availability.
If a leak करता occur on a चपटा छत तब क्षति प्रायः goes unnoticed लिये long अवधि of time दौरान जिससे जल penetrates और soaks the अलंकार and any insulation and/or structure beneath it.
This can lead to महंगी क्षति इससे the rot जिससे प्रायः develops and if बाएँ can weaken the छत ढांचा.
वहीँ हैं भी various स्वास्थ्य risks to लोगों and पशु breathing the सांचे spores : the गंभीरता of इस स्वास्थ्य risk remains a debated पाइंट.
एक प्रॉब्लम with maintaining flat roofs is that if water करता penetrate the अवरोध covering ( be it परंपरागत or a आधुनिक membrane ) it can travel a long रास्ता पहले causing visible damage or टपकती into a building जहाँ it can be seen.
यूँ it is not आसान to see where it is टपकती in order to मरम्मत it.
एकबार underlying छत अलंकार is soaked it प्रायः sags causing a further संग्रहण or puddling of water in कि क्षेत्रफल और the प्रॉब्लम worsens.
a cd-rom ( ) is a pre-pressed कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क which contains data.
the नाम is an एक्रोनिम जिससे स्टैंड for `` कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क read-only मेमोरी ``.
Computers can read CD-ROMs, लकिन can नहीं write on उन्हें.
cd-roms are popularly प्रयुक्त to वितरित computer software, सहित वीडियो खेल और मल्टीमीडिया applications, हालांकि कोई data can be भंडारित ( up to the capacity limit of a डिस्क ).
कुछ cds, पुकारा उन्नत cds, थाम both कंप्यूटर आंकड़ा और ऑडियो साथ the latter capable of being played on a CD खिलाड़ी, जबकि data ( ऐसे as तन्त्र or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( such as आईएसओ 9660 स्वरूप pc cd-roms ).
the Yellow किताब is the तकनीकी मानक कि defines the स्वरूप of cd-roms.
एक of a set of color-bound books कि contain the technical विशेषताएँ लिये सब cd स्वरुप, the Yellow किताब, निर्मित by Sony और फिलिप्स, was the first एक्सटेंशन of कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क Digital ऑडियो.
it adapted the स्वरूप to hold कोई रूप of आंकड़ा.
Joanne `` jo '' Rowling ( ), ( born 31 July 1965 ), कलम name J. K. Rowling, is a British novelist, बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the लेखक of the हैरी कुम्हार fantasy श्रेणी.
The कुम्हार books have gained विश्वव्यापी ध्यान, won multiple awards, और बेची अधिक than 400 लाख copies.
They have become the best-selling किताब श्रेणी in history, और महरूम the आधार for a श्रेणी of films which has become the highest-grossing फिल्मी श्रेणी in इतिहास.
रोलिंग था overall स्वीकृति on the स्क्रिप्ट as खूब as maintaining creative कंट्रोल by सेवारत as a निर्माता on the फाइनल किस्त.
born in yate, ग्लॉस्टरशायर, रोलिंग थी working as a researcher और bilingual सचिव लिये माफ़ी अंतरराष्ट्रीय जब वो conceived the विचार for the Harry कुम्हार series on a विलम्बित train इससे मैनचेस्टर to London in 1990.
the seven-year period कि followed entailed the death of उसके माँ, तलाक इससे उसके पहला husband and गरीबी until Rowling समाप्त the first novel in the श्रेणी, हैरी कुम्हार and the पारस 's Stone ( 1997 ).
Rowling subsequently प्रकाशित 6 sequels—the पिछला, हैरी कुम्हार और the Deathly hallows ( 2007 ) —as खूब as 3 पूरक to the series.
In 2012, रोलिंग parted साथ her एजेंसी and resumed लिखने in the रूप of a tragicomedy अनोखा aimed at वयस्क readership, हकदार the Casual रिक्ति.
रोलिंग रै said वो is फिलहाल working on दो books—one aimed लिये वयस्कों, the अन्य for children younger than the Harry Potter दर्शक, और वो expects the latter to be प्रकाशित पहला.
रोलिंग has led a `` rags to riches `` जीवन स्टोरी, in which she progressed from living on state लाभ to multi-millionaire status within पाँच years.
वो is the United किंगडम 's best-selling author since रिकॉर्ड began, साथ sales in excess of £238m.
the 2008 Sunday टाइम्स समृद्ध सूची अनुमानित Rowling 's सौभाग्य at £560 लाख ( $ 798 लाख ), रैंकिंग उसके as the बारहवीं richest स्त्री in the संयुक्त Kingdom.
Forbes क्रमित Rowling as the forty-eighth सबसे शक्तिशाली हस्ती of 2007, and TIME पत्रिका नामित उसके as a runner-up लिये its 2007 Person of the Year, noting the social, moral, and political प्रेरणा she रै given उसके प्रशंसक.
in अक्तूबर 2010, Rowling थी नामित the `` Most influential स्त्री in Britain '' by अग्रणी पत्रिका editors.
She has become a notable लोकसेवक, supporting ऐसे charities as Comic Relief, एक जनक Families, Multiple Sclerosis Society of Great ब्रिटेन और lumos ( formerly the Children 's High स्तर Group ).
auburndale is a city in Polk County, फ्लोरिडा, United States.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 11,032 at the 2000 census.
according to the U.S जनसांख्यिकी estimates of 2005, the city had a population of 12,381.
It is part of the lakeland – Winter Haven Metropolitan सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल.
hurricane Isabel ( 2003 ) as देखी from कक्षा दौरान expedition 7 of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Space स्टेशन.
the eye, eyewall, and surrounding rainbands, विशेषताएँ of तीव्र cyclones, are clearly दृश्य in इस view इससे space.
a तीव्र cyclone is a तूफ़ान प्रणाली characterized by a low-pressure बीच घिरी by a spiral व्यवस्था of thunderstorms कि produce दमदार winds और heavy बरसात.
Tropical cyclones strengthen जब water काफूर from the ocean is released as the saturated एयर उदय, resulting in condensation of water वाष्प contained in the moist air.
वे are fueled by a different ऊष्मा यांत्रिकी than अन्य cyclonic windstorms ऐसे as nor'easters, European windstorms, and ध्रुवीय lows.
the characteristic कि separates तीव्र cyclones इससे other cyclonic systems is that at कोई ऊँचाई in the atmosphere, the center of a tropical चक्रवात will be warmer than its परिवेश ; a घटना called `` गरम core `` तूफ़ान systems.
the term `` तीव्र '' refers दोनो to the भौगोलिक उत्पत्ति of ये प्रणालियों, which प्रायः रूप in तीव्र regions of the globe, और to their गठन in maritime तीव्र एयर masses.
the पद `` चक्रवात '' refers to such तूफ़ान ' cyclonic प्रकृति, साथ counterclockwise हवा प्रवाह in the Northern गोलार्ध और clockwise हवा प्रवाह in the Southern गोलार्ध.
The opposite दिशा of the wind flow is a परिणाम of the कॉरिऑलिस फ़ोर्स.
Depending on its location और शक्ति, a तीव्र cyclone is referred to by names such as hurricane (, ), तूफ़ान ( ), तीव्र तूफ़ान, cyclonic तूफ़ान, तीव्र अवसाद, and बस चक्रवात.
जबकि tropical cyclones can produce extremely शक्तिशाली हवाएँ और मूसलाधार rain, वे हैं भी able to produce high लहरें, damaging तूफ़ान surge, और tornadoes.
They develop over large लाशें of warm water, and खोना their strength if they मूव over land due to increased सतह घर्षण and loss of the गरम ocean as an उर्जा सोर्स.
इस is why तटीय regions can प्राप्त significant damage इससे a tropical चक्रवात, जबकि inland regions हैं relatively सुरक्षित from receiving strong winds.
Heavy rains, however, can उपज significant बाढ़ inland, और तूफ़ान surges can produce extensive तटीय बाढ़ up to from the तटरेखा.
Although उनके effects on human populations can be devastating, तीव्र cyclones can relieve सूखा शर्तें.
वे also carry ऊष्मा उर्जा दूर from the tropics and हस्तांतरण it toward शीतोष्ण latitudes, which makes them an महत्वपूर्ण भाग of the वैश्विक वायुमंडलीय circulation यांत्रिकी.
As a परिणाम, tropical cyclones help to maintain संतुलन in the धरती 's क्षोभमण्डल, और to maintain a अपेक्षाकृत stable and गरम temperature worldwide.
अनेक तीव्र cyclones develop when the वायुमंडलीय conditions around a कमजोर disturbance in the माहौल हैं favorable.
The पृष्ठभूमि पर्यावरण is modulated by climatological चक्र और पैटर्न such as the Madden-Julian oscillation, El niño-southern दोलन, and the अटलांटिक multidecadal oscillation.
Others form जब अन्य प्रकार of cyclones acquire तीव्र characteristics.
तीव्र systems हैं तब स्थानांतरित by परिचालन हवाएँ in the क्षोभमण्डल ; if the शर्तें remain अनुकूल, the tropical disturbance intensifies, and can भी develop an eye.
on the अन्य समाप्त of the वर्णक्रम, if the शर्तें around the प्रणाली deteriorate or the tropical cyclone makes landfall, the प्रणाली weakens and आखिरकार dissipates.
it is नहीं possible to artificially induce the dissipation of these systems साथ current प्रौद्योगिकी.
किर्क Douglas ( born Issur Danielovitch, ; दिसम्बर 9, 1916 ) is an अमरीकी स्टेज और फिल्मी actor, film निर्माता और author.
His लोकप्रिय films include Out of the पास्ट ( 1947 ), चैंपियन ( 1949 ), इक्का in the Hole ( 1951 ), the ख़राब और the खूबसूरत ( 1952 ), 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea ( 1954 ), हवस for Life ( 1956 ), Paths of महिमा ( 1957 ), gunfight at the o.k. corral ( 1957 ), the वाइकिंग्स ( 1958 ), Spartacus ( 1960 ), Lonely हैं the वीर ( 1962 ), सात Days in May ( 1964 ), The नायक of telemark ( 1965 ) और मुश्किल Guys ( 1986 ).
He is no.17 on the American Film Institute 's सूची of the महानतम male अमरीकी स्क्रीन legends of सब समय, बनाना उसे the highest-ranked जीना person on the list.
In 1996, he received the Academy Honorary Award `` for 50 सालो as a creative and moral force in the गति picture जातियाँ. ''
he is one of the last surviving actors इससे Hollywood 's `` सुनहरी आयु ''.
Robert क्लार्क `` bob '' Seger ( born may 6, 1945 ) is an American चट्टान और roll singer-songwriter, guitarist and pianist.
as a locally कामयाब detroit-area कलाकार, he performed and अंकित as Bob Seger and the Last सुना और bob seger System throughout the 1960s.
by the early 1970s, he had dropped the `` System '' from उसके रिकार्डिंग और जारी to strive लिये broader कामयाबी with other विभिन्न bands.
In 1973, he put साथ The Silver गोली Band, a group of Detroit-area संगीतकारों, साथ जिसको he became most कामयाब on the national level with the एल्बम सजीव गोली, recorded सजीव साथ the Silver गोली बैंड in 1975 at cobo हॉल in डेट्रॉयट, मिशिगन.
In 1976, he achieved a नेशनल breakout साथ the स्टुडियो एल्बम रात्रि चालें.
On उसके स्टुडियो albums, he also worked extensively with the alabama-based Muscle Shoals Rhythm Section, जिससे appeared on several of seger 's best-selling singles and albums.
a roots rocker with a क्लासिक raspy, shouting आवाज़, seger लिखा और अंकित गीतों कि dealt साथ प्रेम, women, blue-collar विषयवस्तु and थी an exemplar of heartland चट्टान.
Seger has अंकित अनेक hits, सहित `` Night Moves, '' `` Turn the Page, '' `` We 've मिला tonight, '' `` विरूद्ध the हवा, '' और shakedown that थी written लिये बेवर्ली पहाड़ियाँ Cop II और `` Like a चट्टान, '' और also co-wrote the ईगल्स ' number-one hit `` heartache tonight. ''
उसके iconic recording of `` Old Time चट्टान and Roll `` थी नामित एक of the Songs of the सदी in 2001.
With a career spanning पाँच दशकों, Seger continues to perform और रिकार्ड today.
seger was inducted into the Rock और Roll Hall of Fame in 2004 और the songwriters Hall of Fame in 2012.
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9, 1913 – April 22, 1994 ) was the 37th President of the संयुक्त States, serving from 1969 to 1974, when he became the only अध्यक्ष to resign the दफ्तर.
निक्सन था previously परोसा as a Republican u.S. representative and सीनेटर from कैलिफ़ोर्निया और as the 36th Vice अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States इससे 1953 to 1961.
निक्सन थी born in yorba लिंडा, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
He ग्रैजुएट इससे whittier कॉलेज in 1934 और Duke विश्वविद्यालयों स्कूल of विधि in 1937, returning to California to अभ्यास law.
He और उसके बीवी, पैट Nixon, moved to वॉशिंगटन to कार्य लिये the federal government in 1942.
he subsequently परोसा in the United States नेवी during World युद्ध ii.
निक्सन was निर्वाचित in कैलिफ़ोर्निया to the House of प्रतिनिधि in 1946 और to the Senate in 1950.
उसके pursuit of the alger Hiss case स्थापित his reputation as a leading anti-communist, और elevated उसे to नेशनल prominence.
He थी the running mate of ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर, the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी presidential nominee in the 1952 election.
Nixon served for आठ सालो as वाइस president.
he waged an unsuccessful अध्यक्षीय campaign in 1960, narrowly losing to जॉन F. कैनेडी, and खोया a रेस लिये राज्यपाल of California in 1962.
in 1968, he ran again लिये the presidency और थी निर्वाचित.
हालांकि Nixon initially escalated America 's involvement in the Vietnam War, he subsequently ended u.S. भागीदारी in 1973.
निक्सन 's visit to the People 's Republic of China in 1972 खोली diplomatic संबंध between the दो nations, and he initiated détente and the anti-ballistic मिसाइल Treaty with the Soviet संघ the same year.
domestically, उसके प्रशासन generally embraced policies कि transferred power इससे Washington to the states.
Among अन्य things, he शुभारम्भ initiatives to लड़ो cancer और illegal दवाएँ, imposed मजदूरी और price नियंत्रण, enforced desegregation of कुछ दक्षिणी schools, और established the पर्यावरणीय Protection एजेंसी.
हालांकि he presided over the चंद्र landings शुरूआत साथ अपोलो 11, he scaled वापस manned स्पेस खोजी.
he was re-elected by a भूस्खलन in 1972.
निक्सन 's second पद saw an अरब आयल embargo, the resignation of उसके vice अध्यक्ष, spiro agnew, और a continuing श्रेणी of खुलासे about the वाटरगेट कांड and अन्य misconduct by सदस्यों of the प्रशासन.
the scandal escalated, costing Nixon much of his राजनैतिक support, and on August 9, 1974, he resigned in the फेस of लगभग certain महाभियोग और हटाना from office.
बाद his इस्तीफा, he controversially received a pardon जारी by उसके successor, Gerald Ford.
in रिटायरमेंट, निक्सन 's कार्य as an elder statesman, authoring several books and undertaking अनेक विदेशी trips, helped to rehabilitate his पब्लिक चित्र.
He suffered a debilitating stroke on अप्रैल 18, 1994, और died four दिनों later at the आयु of 81.
{ { Infobox सीनेटर
The डोमिनिकन गणतंत्र annexation सन्धि caused कड़वा contention between अध्यक्ष Grant और sen. Sumner.
ब्रैडी 1869 ] ]
sen. sumner, opposed to अमरीकी imperialism in the Caribbean और fearful that annexation would lead to the conquest of the neighboring ब्लैक republic of हैती, became कायल कि भ्रष्टाचार lay पीछे the सन्धि, और कि मेन close to the अध्यक्ष साझा in the भ्रष्टाचार.
As अध्यक्ष of the Senate Foreign संबंध Committee, sen. sumner initially withheld his राय on the treaty on जनवरी 18, 1870.
sen. Sumner था महरूम लीक सूचना इससे सहायक Secretary of राज्य, bancroft डेविस, कि u.s. नवल जहाजों were being प्रयुक्त to protect President báez.
Sen. sumner 's कमेटी voted विरूद्ध annexation और at Sen. Sumner’s suggestion and काफी संभवतः to सहेजें the party इससे an भद्दा fight or the अध्यक्ष इससे शर्मिंदगी, the Senate आयोजित इसके बहस of the treaty पीछे closed doors in कार्यपालिका सत्र.
President ग्रान्ट persisted और भेजा messages to कॉंग्रेस in favor of annexation on March 14, 1870, और may 31, 1870.
in बंद सत्र, Sen. Sumner spoke out against the सन्धि ; warnng कि वहीँ would be परेशानी साथ the foreign nationals, noting the दीर्घकालिक विद्रोह कि took place on the द्वीप, और the रिस्क that the स्वतंत्रता of Haiti, पहचाना by the United States in 1862, would be खोया.
sumner stated कि ग्रान्ट 's use of the u.S. Navy as a protectorate थी a उल्लंघन of International विधि और असंवैधानिक.
Finally, on June 30, 1870 the treaty थी voted on by the सीनेट और विफल to gain the जरूरी 2/3 majority लिये treaty passage.
The following दिन, अध्यक्ष ग्रान्ट, अहसास betrayed by Sen. sumner, retaliated by ordering the dismissal of sumner’s close dost J. lothrop motley, दूत to ब्रिटेन.
by पतझड़, Sumner 's personal hostility to the अध्यक्ष थी पब्लिक knowledge, और he blamed the Secretary of State लिये failing to have resigned, rather than let ग्रान्ट have उसके way.
the two मेन, friends जबतक then, cooled into कड़वा दुश्मनों.
In दिसम्बर, 1870, स्टिल fearful कि ग्रान्ट meant to acquire Santo डोमिंगो somehow, sumner दिया a fiercely critical वाक accusing the अध्यक्ष of usurpation and Babcock of unethical conduct.
Already, President ग्रान्ट, समर्थित by his सचिव of राज्य हैमिल्टन मछली, था initiated a अभियान to depose sumner from the chairmanship of the सीनेट विदेशी संबंध Committee.
हालांकि sumner stated he was an `` प्रशासन man '', in addition to having stopped ग्रान्ट 's डोमिनिकन गणतंत्र सन्धि attempt, sumner था पराजित ग्रान्ट 's पूरा repeal of the कार्यकाल of दफ्तर Act, blocked Grant 's नामांकन of सिकंदर स्टीवर्ट to U.S. सचिव of Treasury, और महरूम a constant harassing फ़ोर्स pushing Reconstruction नीतियों तेज़ than ग्रान्ट had been willing to go.
ग्रान्ट resented Sumner 's बड़प्पन of manner, as खूब.
बताई once that sumner किया not believe in the बाइबल, the अध्यक्ष is supposed to have कहा that he थी नहीं चकित : `` he किया n't लिखें it. ''
as the दरार between Grant और sumner increased, sumner’s स्वास्थ्य began to decline.
जब the 42nd U.S. कॉंग्रेस convened on कूच 4, 1871, Senators संबद्ध साथ President Grant, known as ‘’new Radicals’’ voted to oust Sen. sumner इससे the सीनेट Foreign संबंध कमेटी chairmanship.
कारोबार आचार ( भी कॉरपोरेट ethics ) is a रूप of लागू ethics or professional ethics कि examines नैतिक सिद्धान्त और moral or ethical problems कि arise in a कारोबार environment.
it applies to सब aspects of business conduct and is प्रासंगिक to the conduct of individuals और संपूर्ण organizations.
Business आचार has दोनो normative and वर्णनात्मक dimensions.
as a corporate अभ्यास और a करियर specialization, the field is primarily normative.
Academics attempting to understand business बर्ताव employ descriptive विधि.
the दायरा and मात्रा of कारोबार नैतिक issues reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing बर्ताव साथ non-economic चिंताएं.
ब्याज in business आचार accelerated dramatically during the 1980s and 1990s, both भीतर प्रमुख corporations and within academia.
लिये उदाहरण, today most प्रमुख corporations promote उनके प्रतिबद्धता to non-economic values अंतर्गत headings ऐसे as आचार कोड और सोशल जिम्मेदारी charters.
आदम स्मिथ said, `` लोगों of the same trade seldom मिलें साथ, even लिये merriment और diversion, लकिन the वार्तालाप ends in a conspiracy विरूद्ध the public, or in some contrivance to उठाएँ prices. ''
Governments उपयोग कानून और regulations to पाइंट कारोबार बर्ताव in कया वे perceive to be फायदेमंद दिशानिर्देश.
Ethics implicitly regulates क्षेत्रों and विवरण of behavior कि झूठ परे सरकारी control.
The emergence of विशाल corporations with सीमित relationships और संवेदनशीलता to the communities in which वे operate accelerated the development of औपचारिक ethics regimes.
A बर्न is a type of चोट to flesh or स्किन caused by ऊष्मा, electricity, chemicals, घर्षण, or विकिरण.
Most burns affect only the superficial स्किन ( ज्ञात as सतही or पहला उपाधि ) or extend into the deeper स्किन but do not involve the पूरा मोटाई of the स्किन ( known as partial मोटाई or second degree ).
Rarely सब परतों of the स्किन or deeper tissues, such as muscle or अस्थि can be घायल in जिससे मामला the burn is either full thickness ( तीसरा उपाधि ) or चौथी उपाधि.
the treatment जरूरी depends on the गंभीरता of the burn.
Superficial burns maybe managed साथ little more than सरल पीड़ा killers जबकि major burns may आवश्यकता prolonged treatment in specialized बर्न centers.
कूलिंग साथ tap जल may सहायता पीड़ा और decrease क्षति however if exposure is prolonged it may result in कम body तापमान.
आंशिक मोटाई burns may आवश्यकता सफ़ाई with साबुन और जल followed by dressings.
फफोले चाहिए typically be बाएँ unbroken.
पूरा मोटाई burns प्रायः आवश्यकता सर्जिकल उपचार ऐसे as स्किन कलम और extensive burns often आवश्यकता विशाल राशि of intravenous fluids.
the सबसे आम जटिलताओं of burns हैं सम्बन्धित to संक्रमण.
जबकि विशाल burns can be fatal, आधुनिक treatments developed in the last 50 years have significantly improved the outcomes, विशेषकर in children and young वयस्कों.
globally परिचय 11 लाख people seek medical उपचार और 300,000 people die इससे burns.
in the संयुक्त राज्य, of those admitted to a बर्न बीच, लगभग 4 % die इससे उनके चोटों.
The long term outcome is primarily related to the आकार of बर्न and the आयु of the व्यक्ति effected.
The Atlantic Ocean, नहीं सहित आर्कटिक and Antarctic regions
This video थी taken by the क्रू of expedition 29 on फलक the ISS.
The pass starts इससे बस north-east of the द्वीप of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड over the उत्तर Atlantic समंदर to central अफ़्रीकी, over दक्षिण Sudan.
The अटलांटिक समंदर is the second-largest of the world 's oceanic विभाजन.
साथ a कुल area of परिचय, it कवर लगभग 20 प्रतिशत of the Earth 's सतह and परिचय 29 percent of इसके जल surface क्षेत्रफल.
the पहला भाग of its नाम refers to एटलस of Greek mythology, making the अटलांटिक the `` समुद्र of Atlas ''.
the oldest ज्ञात mention of `` अटलांटिक '' is in The Histories of हिरोडोटस around 450 BC ( Hdt. 1.202.4 ) : Atlantis थलैसा ( यूनानी : ἀτλαντὶς θάλασσα ; अंग्रेज़ी : समुद्र of एटलस ).
the term ethiopic समंदर, निकला from इथियोपिया, was लागू to the southern अटलांटिक as लेट as the mid-19th सदी.
पहले europeans खोजा other oceans, the पद `` समंदर '' itself थी synonymous with the waters beyond the जलसन्धि of जिब्राल्टर कि we now know as the Atlantic.
the जल्दी यूनानियों believed this समंदर to be a gigantic river encircling the संसार.
the अटलांटिक समंदर occupies an elongated, s-shaped basin extending longitudinally between Eurasia and अफ़्रीकी to the ईस्ट, and the Americas to the वेस्ट.
as एक घटक of the interconnected global ocean, it is कनेक्ट in the north to the आर्कटिक Ocean ( जिससे is sometimes माना a sea of the अटलांटिक ), to the प्रशांत समंदर in the दक्षिणपश्चिम, the Indian समंदर in the southeast, और the Southern Ocean in the दक्षिण.
( अन्य definitions describe the Atlantic as extending southward to Antarctica. )
the equator subdivides it into the उत्तर Atlantic समंदर और दक्षिण अटलांटिक समंदर.
due to उनके long-term हठ, और the need लिये a unique identifier in issuing forecasts and warnings, tropical cyclones and subtropical cyclones हैं given names according to policy ( see Tropical cyclone नामकरण ).
The following हैं lists इससे जिससे ये तीव्र और उपोष्ण चक्रवात names हैं निकला.
White लाइट is dispersed by a prism into the रंगों of the optical spectrum.
the दृश्य वर्णक्रम is the portion of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक spectrum कि is visible to ( can be detected by ) the इंसान नजर.
Electromagnetic विकिरण in this range of wavelengths is called दृश्य light or बस light.
A ठेठ इंसान नजर होगा respond to wavelengths इससे परिचय 390 to 700 nm.
in terms of आवृत्ति, इस corresponds to a band in the vicinity of 430–790 THz.
a light-adapted नजर generally रै इसके अधिकतम संवेदनशीलता at around 555 nm ( 540 thz ), in the ग्रीन प्रदेश of the ऑप्टिकल वर्णक्रम ( देखिए : दीप्ति फलन ).
the वर्णक्रम does नहीं, however, contain सब the रंगों that the इंसान आँखें और brain can distinguish.
Unsaturated colors ऐसे as pink, or जामुनी विसंगतियाँ ऐसे as magenta, are absent, लिये उदाहरण, क्युकी वे can be made तभी by a mix of अनेक wavelengths.
रंगों containing तभी एक wavelength हैं also called pure रंगों.
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` ऑप्टिकल window ``, the प्रदेश of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम which allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's माहौल.
An उदाहरण of this घटना is कि clean एयर scatters blue light अधिक than रेड wavelengths, और so the midday आसमान appears ब्लू.
the ऑप्टिकल खिड़की is also called the दृश्य खिड़की because it overlaps the human visible जवाब spectrum.
the निकट infrared ( NIR ) window झूठ बस out of the इंसान vision, as खूब as the Medium Wavelength ir ( mwir ) खिड़की और the long wavelength or दूर इन्फ्रारेड ( LWIR or fir ) window हालांकि other पशु may अनुभव them.
अनेक species can see लाइट with बारंबारता outside the `` visible spectrum, '' which is पारिभाषित in शर्तें of human दृष्टि.
मधुमक्खियों और many other कीट can detect पराबैंगनी light, which helps उन्हें find मकरंद in पुष्प.
संयंत्र species that depend on कीट परागण may owe reproductive कामयाबी to उनके रूप in पराबैंगनी लाइट, बल्कि than how colorful वे appear to humans.
पक्षियों, too, can देखिए into the ultraviolet ( 300–400 nm ), and some have sex-dependent markings on उनके plumage कि हैं visible तभी in the ultraviolet range.
Many animals कि can देखिए into the पराबैंगनी दायरा, however, can not see red light or कोई अन्य reddish wavelengths.
मधुमक्खियों ' visible वर्णक्रम ends at परिचय 590nm, बस पहले the नारंगी wavelengths प्रारंभ.
पक्षियों, however, can see कुछ रेड wavelengths, लकिन नहीं as अनेक as humans.
zebras ( or ) हैं several प्रजाति of African equids ( horse family ) संयुक्त by their distinctive black and श्वेत धारियाँ.
Their धारियाँ आइये in अलग patterns, unique to each व्यक्तिगत.
वे हैं generally सोशल पशु कि सजीव in छोटी harems to large herds.
नापसंद उनके closest रिश्तेदारों, घोड़े और asses, zebras have never महरूम truly domesticated.
वहीँ हैं तीन species of zebras : the मैदान zebra, the Grévy 's zebra और the mountain जेब्रा.
the plains जेब्रा और the mountain zebra belong to the subgenus hippotigris, but grévy 's जेब्रा is the sole species of subgenus Dolichohippus.
The latter resembles an गधा, to जिससे it is closely related, जबकि the पूर्व दो are more horse-like.
सब तीन belong to the genus equus, along with other living equids.
The अद्वितीय धारियाँ of zebras मेक उन्हें एक of the animals सबसे परिचित to people.
वे occur in a variety of habitats, such as grasslands, savannas, woodlands, thorny scrublands, kyu, and coastal hills.
however, विभिन्न anthropogenic कारकों have had a severe impact on zebra populations, in particular hunting लिये खालें and habitat विनाश.
grévy 's जेब्रा and the mountain zebra हैं endangered.
While मैदान zebras हैं much अधिक plentiful, एक subspecies, the quagga, became विलुप्त in the लेट 19th century – though वहीँ is currently a plan, पुकारा the quagga Project, कि aims to breed zebras that are phenotypically similar to the quagga in a प्रक्रम पुकारा breeding वापस.
बैरी White, born बैरी Eugene Carter ( – ), was an American composer और singer-songwriter.
A two-time ग्रैमी Award -winner ज्ञात for his distinctive bass आवाज़ and romantic चित्र, श्वेत 's महानतम कामयाबी आए in the 1970s as a सोलो सिंगर and with the प्रेम असीमित Orchestra, crafting अनेक enduring आत्मा, दुर्गंध, और डिस्को songs ऐसे as his दो biggest हिट्स, `` You 're the पहला, the पिछला, my Everything `` and `` ca n't मिलेंगी Enough of अपना प्रेम, बेब. ''
साथ with इसहाक़ हेज़, श्वेत is माना by allmusic.com as a पायोनियर of डिस्को म्यूज़िक in the जल्दी 1970s.
During the कोर्स of his career in the म्यूज़िक कारोबार, White हासिल 106 gold एल्बम विश्वव्यापी, 41 of which भी attained platinum औकात.
श्वेत था 20 gold and 10 platinum singles, with worldwide sales in excess of 100 लाख, according to आलोचकों ed Hogan और Wade kergan.
His प्रभाव शामिल रेव. जेम्स क्लीवलैंड, रे Charles, एरीथा Franklin plus motown artists the Supremes, the चार Tops and मारविन Gaye.
एंजेलीना जोली (, born Angelina Jolie वोइट ; जून 4, 1975 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री, फिल्मी director, और screenwriter.
वो रै प्राप्त an अकादमी पुरस्कार, दो स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं Guild Awards, और तीन सुनहरी ग्लोब Awards, and थी named हॉलीवुड 's highest-paid actress by फोर्ब्स in 2009 and 2011.
Jolie promotes humanitarian कल्याणकारी, and is विख्यात लिये उसके कार्य साथ शरणार्थियों as a खास envoy and पूर्व Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations ऊँची कमिश्नर लिये शरणार्थियों ( UNHCR ).
She has प्रायः महरूम cited as the world 's `` most खूबसूरत '' स्त्री, a शीर्षक लिये जिससे वो has प्राप्त substantial मीडिया ध्यान.
जोली made her screen डेब्यू as a चाइल्ड alongside उसके father Jon वोइट in lookin ' to मिलेंगी Out ( 1982 ), लकिन her फिल्मी करियर began in सच्चाई a decade later with the low-budget production Cyborg 2 ( 1993 ).
Her पहला leading भूमिका in a प्रमुख फिल्मी थी in the cyber-thriller Hackers ( 1995 ).
वो स्ट्रक्चर in the critically acclaimed biographical television films George वालेस ( 1997 ) और Gia ( 1998 ), and जीती an अकादमी पुरस्कार for बेहतरीन supporting अभिनेत्री लिये उसके performance in the नाटक लड़की, बाधित ( 1999 ).
Jolie हासिल चौड़ी कीर्ति after her portrayal of वीडियो game नायिका लारा Croft in Lara क्रॉफ्ट : मकबरा Raider ( 2001 ), और स्थापित herself among the highest-paid अभिनेत्रियों in हॉलीवुड with the sequel The Cradle of Life ( 2003 ).
She जारी उसके action स्टार करियर with mr. & Mrs. स्मिथ ( 2005 ) and Wanted ( 2008 ) —her biggest non-animated commercial successes to date—and received further critical acclaim for her प्रदर्शन in the dramas a mighty दिल ( 2007 ) and changeling ( 2008 ), जिससे earned her a nomination for an अकादमी Award लिये Best Actress.
जोली made her directorial डेब्यू with the wartime नाटक In the जमीन of रक्त and मधु ( 2011 ).
तलाक इससे अभिनेताओं जॉनी Lee Miller और बिली Bob Thornton, जोली अभी lives with actor Brad Pitt, in a संबंध notable लिये fervent मीडिया ध्यान.
जोली और Pitt have three biological children और तीन अपनाया children.
a प्राकृतिक मेहराब produced by the erosion of differentially weathered चट्टान in Jebel kharaz, जॉर्डन
Erosion is the प्रक्रम by जिससे soil and rock हैं removed from the Earth 's सतह by exogenetic प्रक्रियाओं ऐसे as wind or जल प्रवाह, and then transported and deposited in other स्थितियाँ.
While अपरदन is a प्राकृतिक प्रक्रम, इंसान activities have increased by 10-40 times the rate at जिससे erosion is occurring globally.
excessive अपरदन causes समस्याएं such as मरुस्थलीकरण, decreases in agricultural उत्पादकता due to land degradation, sedimentation of जलमार्गों, और ecological पतन due to घाटा of the nutrient समृद्ध upper मृदा परतों.
जल और wind erosion हैं now the two primary कल्याणकारी of जमीन degradation ; संयुक्त, वे हैं जिम्मेदार लिये 84 % of degraded acreage, making excessive अपरदन एक of the सबसे significant वैश्विक पर्यावरणीय समस्याएं.
औद्योगिक कृषि, deforestation, roads, anthropogenic जलवायु बदलें और शहरी sprawl हैं amongst the सबसे significant human activities in लिहाज़ to उनके प्रभाव on stimulating अपरदन.
however, वहीँ हैं अनेक उपलब्धियाँ वैकल्पिक land उपयोग practices कि can काटना or सीमा अपरदन, such as terrace -building, no-till कृषि, और revegetation of denuded soils.
Jersey Shore is an American वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी जिससे ran on एमटीवी from December 3, 2009 to दिसम्बर 20, 2012 in the संयुक्त States.
the श्रेणी फ़ॉलो the lives of आठ housemates spending उनके गर्मियाँ at the जर्सी shore in the U.S. राज्य of New Jersey.
Season 2 followed the cast escaping the cold पूर्वोत्तर शीत to मियामी बीच, with ऋतु 3 returning to the Jersey Shore.
The fourth season, filmed in Italy, premiered on अगस्त 4, 2011.
the show लौटे लिये a fifth ऋतु, at seaside Heights on जनवरी 5, 2012.
The पांचवां season finale aired on कूच 15, 2012.
on कूच 19, 2012, एमटीवी पुष्टि कि the series होता वापसी लिये their छठे ऋतु.
on अगस्त 30, 2012, एमटीवी announced कि the श्रेणी होगा end बाद the sixth ऋतु, जिससे premiered on अक्तूबर 4.
the श्रेणी finale aired on दिसम्बर 20, 2012.
The दिखाएँ debuted amid large amounts of controversy regarding the उपयोग of the words `` guido / guidette, '' portrayals of Italian-American stereotypes, and scrutiny from स्थानीय क्युकी the डाल सदस्यों यहूद not निवासियों of the क्षेत्रफल.
the श्रेणी garnered record ratings लिये एमटीवी, बनाना it the संजाल 's सबसे viewed श्रेणी telecast ever.
The series ' cast have भी been credited with introducing अद्वितीय lexicon and वाक्यांश into अमरीकी popular culture.
the विश्वविद्यालयों of शिकागो और the विश्वविद्यालयों of Oklahoma हैं among the शैक्षणिक institutions that have था classes or सम्मेलनों about the show.
in 2010, the डाल of जर्सी shore थी named on Barbara walters ' 10 सबसे fascinating People list, and the series रै चूंकि been exported to दर्जनों of countries विश्वव्यापी.
There are अनेक remakes of the दिखाएँ in other देशों, साथ दो नियत in the संयुक्त Kingdom ; the खूब ज्ञात geordie shore, नियत in Newcastle upon tyne, इंग्लैण्ड.
the अन्य is the घाटियों, the वेल्श equivalent, जिससे is filmed और नियत in Cardiff.
the तभी अन्य official रीमेक of the show is Gandía shore, नियत in Gandía, स्पेन.
सही
संयुक्त राज्य territory is कोई extent of प्रदेश अंतर्गत the jurisdiction of the federal सरकारी of the United States, including सब waters ( around islands or continental tracts ) और सब u.s. नवल vessels.
the संयुक्त राज्य has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign rights for exploring, exploiting, conserving, and मैनेजिंग its territory.
इस extent of territory is all the area belonging to, और अंतर्गत the डोमिनियन of, the संयुक्त States संघीय सरकारी ( which शामिल tracts lying at a distance इससे the देश ) लिये प्रशासनिक और अन्य purposes.
the United States कुल territory includes a उपसमुच्चय of राजनैतिक divisions.
The u.S. government is a government साथ delegated शक्तियां अंतर्गत the United States संविधान.
`` The powers नहीं प्रतिनिधित्व to the संयुक्त States by the संविधान, nor निषिद्ध by it to the States, are reserved to the राज्य क्रमशः, or to the लोगों '' by the दसवाँ amendment.
Terminator 3 : वृद्धि of the मशीने ( commonly abbreviated as T3 ) is a 2003 विज्ञान fiction action फिल्मी निर्देशित by Jonathan Mostow और अभिनीत अर्नाल्ड Schwarzenegger, Nick stahl, क्लेयर Danes and kristanna loken.
it is the दूसरी sequel to the Terminator ( 1984 ).
बाद स्काईनेट fails to kill सारा connor before उसके बेटे is born and to मार जॉन himself as a child, it भेजना वापस another Terminator, the t-x, in an attempt to wipe आउट as many प्रतिरोध अधिकारियों as possible.
इस शामिल John 's future wife, लकिन नहीं जॉन खुद as his whereabouts हैं अनजान to स्काईनेट.
John 's जीवन is लगाई in खतरे जब the t-x accidentally पाता उसे.
A cord of wood
the cord is a ईकाई of माप of शुष्क volume प्रयुक्त in कनाडा and the संयुक्त राज्य to measure ईधन and pulpwood.
A cord is the amount of wood कि, when `` क्रमित and खूब stowed '' ( arranged so pieces हैं लकीर, parallel, touching और कॉम्पैक्ट ), occupies a volume of.
This corresponds to a खूब stacked woodpile ऊँची, long, और deep ; or कोई अन्य arrangement of linear माप कि yields the वही volume.
the नाम cord probably comes इससे the उपयोग of a cord or स्ट्रिंग to measure it.
The, is an 8-bit handheld video खेल यंत्र विकसित and manufactured by निन्टेंडो.
it was released in Japan on, in उत्तर अमेरिका in, और in यूरोपीय on.
it is the पहला हैंडहेल्ड console in the खेल लड़के line, and थी निर्मित by Gunpei yokoi और निन्टेंडो शोध & विकास 1 —the वही स्टाफ जो had designed the Game & Watch श्रेणी as well as अनेक लोकप्रिय games लिये the Nintendo Entertainment System.
redesigned संस्करण were released in 1996 और 1998, in the रूप of खेल लड़के Pocket, और खेल लड़के Light ( जापानी तभी ), respectively.
the Game Boy is निन्टेंडो 's दूसरी handheld system following the खेल & देखें श्रेणी introduced in, और it संयुक्त features from दोनो the Nintendo Entertainment System और खेल & देखें.
it was originally bundled with the पहेली game टेट्रिस.
as भाग of the fourth पीढी of gaming, the खेल Boy competed with the sega खेल गियर, atari लिंक्स, और the turboexpress.
Despite these other technologically superior हैंडहेल्ड consoles, the खेल Boy was a tremendous कामयाबी.
the खेल लड़के और इसके successor, the Game लड़के Color, have दोनो combined बेची 118.69 लाख units worldwide.
upon इसके रिलीज in the United States, it बेची its संपूर्ण शिपमेंट of एक लाख units within सप्ताह.
The संसार Trade Center is a जटिल of इमारतें अंतर्गत construction in Lower Manhattan, नई York नगर, संयुक्त States, replacing an earlier जटिल of सात इमारतें साथ the same नाम on the वही साईट.
the original World व्यापार बीच प्रदर्शित लैंडमार्क जुड़वा towers, जिससे खोली on अप्रैल 4, 1973 और were destroyed in the September 11 हमले of 2001, साथ साथ 7 संसार व्यापार बीच.
the अन्य buildings in the complex यहूद क्षतिग्रस्त in the हमले, और their तबाह यहूद eventually demolished.
The साईट is होने rebuilt साथ पाँच नई skyscrapers and a memorial to those मारे in the attacks.
, तभी one skyscraper रै महरूम समाप्त ; the अन्य चार हैं अपेक्षित to be completed पहले 2020.
एक World Trade बीच होगा be the सीसे भवन लिये the new जटिल, reaching more than 100 stories at इसके पूर्णता.
it became the tallest building in नई York City on April 30, 2012, और is expected to be finished by 2013.
a छठे मीनार is प्रतीक्षारत confirmation.
At the समय of उनके पूर्णता, the original 1 संसार व्यापार बीच ( the उत्तर Tower ) और 2 World व्यापार बीच ( the दक्षिण मीनार ), ज्ञात collectively as the `` Twin Towers '', were the tallest इमारतें in the world.
The अन्य buildings included 3 WTC ( the मैरियट संसार व्यापार बीच ), 4 wtc, 5 wtc, 6 wtc, and 7 wtc.
सब of ये इमारतें यहूद निर्मित between 1975 and 1985.
the लागत for the construction थी $ 400 million ( $ in डॉलर ).
the complex थी स्तिथ in the heart of New York नगर 's downtown financial district और contained 13.4 लाख वर्गाकार फीट ( 1.24 लाख m2 ) of दफ्तर स्पेस.
the World व्यापार Center अनुभवी a आग on, 1975, a bombing on, 1993 और a डकैती on, 1998.
In 1998, the बंदरगाहों प्राधिकार decided to privatize the World Trade Center, leasing the buildings to a निजी कम्पनी to मैनेज, और awarded the पट्टे to Silverstein Properties in.
on the morning of सितंबर 11, 2001, Al-Qaeda -संबद्धd hijackers flew two Boeing 767 jets into the complex, one into each मीनार, in a समन्वित terrorist आक्रमण.
बाद burning लिये 56 मिनट्स, the दक्षिण मीनार ( 2 ) collapsed, followed a half-hour बाद by the उत्तर मीनार ( 1 ), with the हमले on the संसार Trade Center resulting in 2,753 मौतों.
गिरना debris from the मीनारें, संयुक्त with fires कि the मलबा initiated in several surrounding इमारतें, led to the आंशिक or पूरा पतन of सब the अन्य buildings in the जटिल and caused अनर्थकारी क्षति to ten अन्य large structures in the surrounding क्षेत्रफल.
the process of cleanup और recovery at the World व्यापार Center site took आठ months.
Over the following सालो, plans लिये a rebuilt World Trade बीच took form.
the पहला नई भवन at the साईट was 7 World Trade बीच, जिससे खोली in.
the निम्नतर Manhattan विकास Corporation ( LMDC ), स्थापित in to oversee the rebuilding प्रक्रम, organized प्रतियोगिताओं to चुनें a साईट plan and मेमोरियल डिज़ाइन.
मेमोरी मूलाधार, designed by डेनियल libeskind, was selected as the master plan, लकिन this गई through substantial परिवर्तन in design.
the new World व्यापार Center जटिल होगा शामिल एक संसार व्यापार Center, three अन्य high-rise दफ्तर मीनारें, and the National September 11 मेमोरियल & संग्रहालय.
सैन जिबरील Mountains
San bernardino kyu, with Mt. San gorgonio in the अग्रभूमि और बिग Bear झील in the background.
the अनुप्रस्थ Ranges are a group of पहाड़ ranges of southern California, in the प्रशांत Coast सीमाएँ physiographic region in उत्तर अमेरिका.
the Transverse सीमाएँ शुरू at the southern समाप्त of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया coast सीमाएँ and झूठ between सांता बारबरा और San डिएगो counties.
वे derive the name Transverse सीमाएँ due to उनके east-west orientation, making them transverse to the सामान्य north-south अभिविन्यास of सबसे of कैलिफ़ोर्निया 's coastal kyu.
Periodic table साथ इलेक्ट्रॉन शेल
an electron शेल may be विचार of as an कक्षा followed by electrons around an atom 's केंद्रक.
the closest shell to the nucleus is called the `` 1 shell '' ( also पुकारा `` K शेल '' ), followed by the `` 2 shell '' ( or `` l shell '' ), then the `` 3 शेल '' ( or `` m शेल '' ), and so on दूर और दूर इससे the केंद्रक.
The शेल अक्षर K, l, m,..., प्रयुक्त in the x-ray notation, हैं वर्णमाला.
Each शेल can contain only a fixed क्रमांक of electrons : The 1st शेल can hold up to दो electrons, the 2nd shell can थाम up to eight electrons, the 3rd शेल can थाम up to 18, and 4th shell can थाम up to 32 और so on.
Since electrons are electrically attracted to the nucleus, an atom 's electrons होगा generally occupy बाहरी shells only if the more भीतरी शेल have already been completely भर by other electrons.
however, this is not a strict requirement : अणु may have two or भी तीन incomplete बाहरी शेल.
( देखिए Madelung नियम for more विवरण. )
For an स्पष्टीकरण of why electrons exist in ये shells देखिए इलेक्ट्रॉन configuration.
the electrons in the outermost occupied shell ( or shells ) determine the chemical properties of the अणु ; it is पुकारा the valence शेल.
Each शेल consists of एक or more subshells, and प्रत्येक subshell consists of एक or more परमाणु orbitals.
vickie lynn Marshall ( née होगन ; November 28, 1967 – February 8, 2007 ), known by उसके moniker anna Nicole Smith, थी an अमरीकी मॉडल, actress, and टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व.
Smith पहला gained popularity in प्लेबॉय, बनने the 1993 Playmate of the Year.
वो modeled लिये clothing companies, including Guess जीन्स और Lane Bryant.
स्मिथ dropped आउट of ऊँची school and was शादीशुदा in 1985.
उसके अत्यधिक publicized दूसरी विवाह to oil कारोबार mogul, J. Howard मार्शल, 62 सालो her senior, resulted in speculation that वो शादीशुदा the octogenarian लिये his धन, जिससे वो अस्वीकृत.
following मार्शल 's मौत, Smith began a lengthy legal बैटल over a share of उसके estate.
उसके मामला, मार्शल v. मार्शल, पहुँचे the u.S. Supreme अदालत on a question of federal क्षेत्राधिकार, and again on a question of bankruptcy अदालत authority ( अभी पुकारा stern v. Marshall ).
Smith died on फ़रवरी 8, 2007 in a Hollywood, Florida hotel room as a परिणाम of an overdose of prescription drugs.
भीतर the final छह महीने of उसके life, Smith was the focus of a नवीनीकृत दबायें coverage surrounding the death of उसके बेटे, Daniel, और the paternity और कस्टडी बैटल over her newborn daughter, Dannielynn.
The is एक denomination of Japanese येन.
The वर्तमान डिज़ाइन थी पहला minted in 1959 using जापानी वर्ण ज्ञात as the `` नई स्क्रिप्ट ``, और were also minted इससे 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' Japanese वर्ण.
Five-yen सिक्के date to 1870 ( जब, due to the much उच्चतर मान of the येन, वे were minted in सुनहरा ).
the सामने of the coin depicts a राइस संयंत्र growing आउट of the water, साथ `` five yen '' written in कांजी ; the वापस is stamped with `` जापानी '' और the साल of issue, भी in kanji, separated by sprouts of a tree.
The तीन ग्राफिक तत्व of the coin represent agriculture और fisheries, the key तत्व of the जापानी first-sector economy.
around a छेद, वहीँ is a gear कि represents industry.
it is the तभी जापानी सिक्का in circulation to कमी अरबी numerals on either face.
TLC is an अमरीकी girl group जिनकी repertoire spanned R & B, हिप हॉप, आत्मा, दुर्गंध, और नई jack झूले.
originally consisting of singer tionne `` t-boz '' Watkins, rapper लिसा `` Left नजर '' Lopes and singer Rozonda `` chilli '' Thomas, the group मिला unprecedented success in the 1990s जबकि also enduring a series of spats साथ the law, प्रत्येक अन्य, और the group 's रिकार्ड लेबल.
Initially, tlc हासिल commercial कामयाबी following the release of their डेब्यू एल्बम ooooooohhh...
on the tlc टिप, which sold 6 लाख नक़ल विश्वव्यापी.
however, it was their दूसरी एल्बम, crazysexycool, कि catapulted the समूह to superstar औकात.
crazysexycool went on to be certified डायमंड by the riaa — a first for a मादा group, and आखिरकार sold 23 लाख नक़ल विश्वव्यापी.
पाँच सालो बाद, the समूह released उनके तीसरा album FanMail, जिससे became the समूह 's पहला album to debut at क्रमांक one and बेची अधिक than 11 लाख copies worldwide.
The subsequent दौरे following fanmails release became the उच्चतम grossing दौरे of all time by a मादा बैंड.
in 2002, लिसा `` बाएँ Eye '' Lopes died in a car दुर्घटना in होंडुरास.
सात महीने later, T-Boz and chilli released the समूह 's चौथी एल्बम 3d, जिससे बेची 2 लाख नक़ल विश्वव्यापी, it प्रदर्शित unreleased vocals इससे बाएँ नजर.
बिलबोर्ड पत्रिका ranked tlc as एक of the महानतम musical trios.
between 1992 और 2003, the band accumulated टेन शीर्ष टेन singles, four क्रमांक एक singles, चार multi-platinum albums, and four Grammy Awards.
at the समाप्त of 1999, tlc थी क्रमित as the सातवाँ most successful अधिनियम of the 1990s by बिलबोर्ड.
In 2008, the group थी inducted into the All समय Hot 100 कलाकार Hall of Fame by the वही magazine, at 56th प्लेस.
कि year it थी भी सूचीबद्ध as the # 25 r & b/hip-hop कलाकार of the preceding 25 years.
tlc has बेची more than 65 लाख records विश्वव्यापी and they are ranked as the second best selling मादा समूह of all समय, और the बेहतरीन selling मादा R & b समूह of all time.
in 2012, tlc ranked 12th on VH1 's 100 महानतम महिलाओं in Music, being ranked the क्रमांक एक all girl समूह on कि list.
Tarzan is a 1999 अमरीकी एनिमेटेड एडवेंचर फिल्मी produced by वॉल्ट Disney विशेषता एनिमेशन and वितरित by Walt डिज़्नी Pictures.
the 37th film in the वॉल्ट डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड Classics, it is based on the story टार्ज़न of the apes by एडगर राइस बरोज, and is the only major motion चित्र version of the स्टोरी टार्ज़न property to be एनिमेटेड.
Directed by क्रिस buck और Kevin लीमा साथ a पटकथा by tab मर्फी, Bob tzudiker, और नोनी श्वेत, टार्ज़न सुविधाएँ the आवाज़ें of Tony goldwyn, minnie ड्राइवर, Glenn Close, और Rosie o'donnell with ब्रायन Blessed, Lance henriksen, वेन Knight, and Nigel Hawthorne.
It थी the पिछला bona fide hit पहले the Disney slump of the जल्दी 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically और $ 448,191,819 विश्वव्यापी, outgrossing इसके predecessors hercules ( 1997 ) और mulan ( 1998 ).
at the समय of इसके release, its उत्पादन budget of $ 130 लाख बना it the सबसे महंगी animated film कभी made, जबतक अव्वल by Disney 's अपना $ 140 million खजाना ग्रह in 2002.
it थी भी the first डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड विशेषता to open at # 1 since pocahontas.
इस was the last major box office कामयाबी of the Disney Renaissance.
आयल Platform P-51 बंद the ब्राज़ीलियाई coast is a semi-submersible platform.
Oil मंच Mittelplate in the उत्तर समुद्र
An oil platform, ( offshore मंच or colloquially oil रिग ) is a विशाल ढांचा with सुविधाएं to ड्रिल कुएं, to extract and प्रक्रम आयल and natural गैस, और to temporarily स्टोर product जबतक it can be brought to shore लिये शोधन and marketing.
in अनेक cases, the मंच contains सुविधाएं to हाउस the workforce as खूब.
depending on the हालातों, the मंच may be फिक्स्ड to the समंदर मंजिल, may consist of an कृत्रिम द्वीप, or may float.
रिमोट subsea wells may भी be connected to a platform by flow लाइनों and by umbilical connections.
These subsea solutions may consist of one or more subsea wells, or of one or more manifold केंद्रों लिये अनेक कुएं.
Slaughter is the हत्या of पशु, प्रायः कि of घरेलू पशुधन लिये खाना.
the animals सबसे commonly slaughtered लिये food are चौपायों, जल buffalo ( for बीफ and veal ), sheep, बकरियों ( लिये मेमने and मटन ), pigs ( लिये पोर्क ), horses ( for घोड़ा meat ), और fowl, largely मुर्गियों, turkeys, and ducks and increasingly fish इससे the aquaculture उद्योग ( fish खेती ).
The White हाउस, the president 's आधिकारिक निवास and बीच of the प्रशासन
अंतर्गत the United States संविधान, the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य is the सिर of राज्य और head of government of the संयुक्त राज्य.
as मुख्य of the executive branch और सिर of the संघीय सरकारी as a पूरे, the प्रेसिडेंसी is the highest राजनैतिक office in the संयुक्त States by influence और recognition.
The अध्यक्ष is भी the commander-in-chief of the संयुक्त राज्य Armed Forces.
The अध्यक्ष is indirectly निर्वाचित to a four-year पद by an Electoral कॉलेज ( or by the हाउस of Representatives चाहिए the चुनावी कॉलेज असफल to award an absolute बहुमत of मत to कोई व्यक्ति ).
Since the ratification of the twenty-second Amendment to the United राज्य Constitution in 1951, no व्यक्ति may be elected President अधिक than twice, और no एक who रै परोसा more than दो years of a term to जिससे किसी else थी elected may be elected अधिक than एकबार.
Upon the मौत, resignation, or removal इससे office of an incumbent अध्यक्ष, the वाइस अध्यक्ष assumes the दफ्तर.
the President जरूर be at तनिक 35 सालो of age और a `` natural born '' नागरिक of the संयुक्त राज्य.
इस list includes only those व्यक्तियों जो यहूद sworn into office as अध्यक्ष following the ratification of the United States Constitution, जिससे took प्रभाव on कूच 4, 1789.
For अमरीकी नेताओ before this ratification, see President of the Continental Congress.
the list does नहीं शामिल कोई एक्टिंग राष्ट्रपतियों under the twenty-fifth amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान.
There have been 43 लोगों sworn into दफ्तर, और 44 presidencies, as ग्रोवर क्लीवलैंड served two non-consecutive terms and is गिने क्रमबद्धता as दोनो the 22nd और 24th president.
Of the individuals निर्वाचित as अध्यक्ष, four died in दफ्तर of प्राकृतिक कल्याणकारी ( विलियम Henry Harrison, Zachary टेलर, वारेन G. हार्डिंग, और फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट ), four यहूद assassinated ( अब्राहम Lincoln, James A. Garfield, William mckinley, और John F. Kennedy ) और एक resigned ( Richard निक्सन ).
जार्ज Washington, the पहला अध्यक्ष, थी उदघाटन in 1789 after a unanimous vote of the Electoral College.
William Henry हैरिसन spent the shortest time in दफ्तर with 32 days in 1841, और Franklin D. Roosevelt खर्च the longest साथ over बारह सालो, लकिन died shortly into उसके चौथी पद in 1945.
he is the तभी president to serve more than two terms, and a संवैधानिक amendment, affecting राष्ट्रपतियों बाद हैरी Truman, थी passed to सीमा the number of टाइम्स an individual can be elected अध्यक्ष.
Andrew जैक्सन, the सातवाँ president, थी the first to be elected by men of सब classes in 1828 बाद most laws barring non-land-owners from मतदान were repealed.
वारेन Harding थी the first elected after women gained voting अधिकारों in 1920.
इतिहास records चार राष्ट्रपतियों – जॉन Q Adams, रदरफोर्ड B. Hayes, Benjamin हैरिसन and जार्ज W. बुश – जो खोया the popular vote लकिन assumed office.
जॉन F. Kennedy रै महरूम the तभी president of Roman Catholic आस्था, and the current president, Barack ओबामा, is the first president of African descent.
Several firearms साथ detachable suppressors, इससे शीर्ष to bottom : an Uzi, An ar-15, A Heckler & koch USP रणनीतिक, A Beretta 92fs, और a SIG मच्छर.
Bolt कार्रवाई rimfire rifle साथ suppressor
awm-f स्निपर राइफल with attached suppressor.
A suppressor, ध्वनि suppressor, or sound मॉडरेटर, is a यंत्र संलग्न to or part of the बैरल of a firearm which reduces the राशि of रव, और प्रायः the amount of muzzle flash, generated by firing the हथियार.
a suppressor can be used दोनो साथ a firearm and साथ संपीडित air गन.
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer, this पद is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the sound of a प्रक्षेप्य, especially एक चलती faster than the speed of ध्वनि, through the एयर can नहीं be eliminated.
using a suppressor in long distance शूटिंग ( i.e. वृहद than 300 meters ) can lessen, or retard, the report at the पल of प्रभाव, and create the छाप of खामोशी निकट the निशाना.
the रव सुना near the muzzle as a प्रक्षेप्य पत्ते the barrel, हालांकि subdued, is not silent at all.
a suppressor is प्रायः a मेटल बेलन साथ आतंरिक mechanisms to reduce the ध्वनि of firing by slowing the escaping propellant gas और sometimes by reducing the गति of the गोली.
Early suppressors were created around the शुरूआत of the 20th सदी by several आविष्कारक.
American inventor hiram Percy Maxim ( not to be उलझन साथ Hiram Stevens कहावत, hiram पर्सी 's पिता, and the inventor of the Maxim Machine गन ), is credited साथ inventing और selling the first commercially कामयाब models circa 1902 ( patented 30 कूच 1909 ).
कहावत gave उसके device the trademarked name कहावत Silencer.
the muffler लिये आतंरिक दहन इंजन was developed in parallel साथ the firearm suppressor by कहावत in the early 20th century, using अनेक of the वही तकनीकों to provide quieter-running engines ( in अनेक यूरोपीय देशों ऑटोमोबाइल mufflers are स्टिल पुकारा silencers ).
The word silencer in reference to गन suppressor remains in widespread use, हालांकि it रै चूंकि गिरे out of एहसान साथ कुछ, especially among the firearms उद्योग, होने replaced साथ the अधिक वस्तुतः accurate पद ध्वनि suppressor or बस suppressor, क्युकी a `` sound suppressor '' करता नहीं `` silence '' कोई हथियार, rather it eliminates muzzle फ्लैश and reduces the sonic दबाव of a firearm discharging.
Common usage और u.S. विधान language favor the historically पहले पद, silencer.
in u.S. law, the शर्तें `` firearm मफलर '' और `` firearm silencer '' हैं synonymous.
suppressors यहूद regularly used by agents of the संयुक्त States Office of रणनीतिक Services, जो favored the newly designed High मानक HDM.22 long Rifle पिस्टल during World युद्ध ii.
OSS निदेशक विलियम जोसेफ `` जंगली विधेयक '' Donovan demonstrated the पिस्टल for President Franklin D. रूज़वेल्ट at the श्वेत House.
According to oss research मुख्य Stanley लोवेल, Donovan ( an बूढ़ा and विश्वसनीय dost of the अध्यक्ष ) was लहराया into the ओवल दफ्तर, where रूज़वेल्ट थी dictating a अक्षर.
जबकि रूज़वेल्ट समाप्त his message, Donovan turned his back and fired टेन गोलियाँ into a sandbag he had brought साथ him, announced कया he था किया और हात the धूम्रपान gun to the astonished president.
The British SOE ( Special परिचालन कार्यपालिका ) Welrod हत्या पिस्टल साथ an अभिन्न suppressor was भी प्रयुक्त by the अमरीकी oss on clandestine operations in नाजी occupied यूरोपीय दौरान the दूसरी संसार War.
Beatrice `` bea '' आर्थर ( May 13, 1922 – April 25, 2009 ) was an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री, comedienne, और सिंगर जिनकी करियर spanned seven दशकों.
Arthur हासिल fame as the अक्षर Maude findlay on the 1970s sitcoms सब in the Family और maude, and as डोरोथी zbornak on the 1980s sitcom the सुनहरी Girls, winning एमी पुरस्कार लिये दोनो roles.
a स्टेज अभिनेत्री दोनो before और बाद her टेलीविज़न success, वो जीती the Tony पुरस्कार लिये Best प्रदर्शित Actress in a Musical लिये her प्रदर्शन as Vera चार्ल्स in the असली cast of mame ( 1966 ).
is a 2011 जापानी 3d computer-animated फिल्मी आधारित on the Tekken वीडियो खेल श्रेणी, उत्पादित by डिजिटल frontier and वितरित by Asmik इक्का entertainment in association with बंदाई Entertainment.
The फिल्मी premiered in उत्तर अमेरिका by बंदाई entertainment on July 26, 2011, और in ऑस्ट्रेलिया on जुलाई 27, 2011 in a खास विशेष one-off screening.
it थी released on सितंबर 3, 2011 in जापानी.
The फिल्मी was released on Blu-ray डिस्क on नवम्बर 22, 2011 लिये यूएसए, and दिसम्बर 1, 2011 for जापानी.
This film थी also released on DVD on November 22, 2011 ( 2d Version तभी ).
the film was additionally शामिल with the प्लेस्टेशन 3 game, tekken संकर, and the निन्टेंडो 3ds शीर्षक, tekken 3D : Prime संस्करण.
लिये a चर्चा of nonprofit, voluntary neighborhood वकालत समूह, देखिए neighborhood संघ.
In the संयुक्त States, a homeowner association is a corporation formed by a real एस्टेट developer लिये the purpose of विपणन, managing, और selling of homes and लोट in a आवासीय subdivision.
it अनुदान the डेवलपर privileged voting अधिकारों in शासी the association, while allowing the डेवलपर to exit financial and विधिक जिम्मेदारी of the संगठन, typically by transferring स्वामित्व of the association to the homeowners after selling बंद a predetermined number of lots.
Membership in the homeowners संघ by a residential buyer is typically a कंडीशन of खरीदें ; a खरीदार is n't दिए an विकल्प to अस्वीकृत it.
Most homeowner एसोसिएशन are incorporated, और हैं subject to राज्य statutes कि govern non-profit corporations and homeowner एसोसिएशन.
राज्य oversight of homeowner associations is minimal, और mainly takes the रूप of कानून जिससे are असंगत इससे state to state.
Some राज्य, ऐसे as Florida and कैलिफ़ोर्निया, have a विशाल body of homeowner संघ विधि, और कुछ राज्य, such as मैसाचुसेट्स, have virtually no homeowner association विधि.
The fastest growing रूप of housing in the United राज्य today is common-interest developments ( cids ), a श्रेणी कि includes planned-unit developments of single-family घरों, condominiums, and cooperative अपार्टमेंट.
चूंकि 1964, homeowner एसोसिएशन have become increasingly आम in the USA.
the जातियाँ एसोसिएशन संस्थान व्यापार association estimated कि hoas governed 24.8 million American homes और 62 million निवासियों in 2010.
a prize-winning lilac-and-white Silkie
There हैं अनेक breeds of गिनी pig जिससे have महरूम विकसित since इसके domestication ca. 5000 BC.
Breeds vary widely in रूप और purpose, ranging from show breeds with long, बहती hair to those in use as मॉडल organisms by विज्ञान.
From ca. 1200 ad to the स्पेनी conquest of the इन्का Empire in 1532, चयनात्मक प्रजनन by indigenous दक्षिण American peoples resulted in many varieties of घरेलू गिनी pigs, जिससे form the आधार लिये कुछ of the आधुनिक domestic breeds.
जल्दी andean breeds were primarily kept as agricultural भण्डार for खाना, और प्रयत्न at improving the गिनी सुअर as a food सोर्स continue to the modern era.
साथ the export of गिनी सूअर to यूरोपीय in the 15th सदी, the लक्ष्य in breeding shifted to फ़ोकस on the development of appealing पालतु.
To this समाप्त, various प्रतिस्पर्धी breeding संगठन were founded by fanciers.
the अमरीकी cavy प्रजनक संघ, an adjunct to the अमरीकी Rabbit प्रजनक Association, is the governing body in the United States और कनाडा.
the अंग्रेजों cavy परिषद governs cavy क्लब in the संयुक्त Kingdom.
Similar organizations मौजूद in ऑस्ट्रेलिया ( Australian National cavy Council ) और नई जीलैंड ( नई जीलैंड cavy क्लबों ).
प्रत्येक क्लबों publishes इसके own Standard of पूर्णता और determines which breeds हैं योग्य लिये showing.
नई breeds continue to emerge in the 21st सदी.
हालांकि there are many breeds of Guinea pig, only a few breeds are commonly मिला on the दिखाएँ तालिका as पालतु.
सबसे गिनी सूअर मिला as पालतु यहूद either found अवांछनीय by प्रजनक or were bred to be सुखद pets regardless of how well they मिलें the breed मानक of पूर्णता.
The छोटी hair, abyssinian, peruvian और sheltie ( aka Silkie ) breeds हैं those सबसे frequently देखी as पालतु, और the former तीन are the कोर breeds in the history of the competitive showing of गिनी सूअर.
in जोड to उनके मानक form, nearly सब breeds आइये in a Satin variant.
satins, due to उनके खोखला बाल shafts, possess coats of a खास gloss and shine.
However, there is growing evidence कि the जीनों जिम्मेदार लिये the साटन कोट also can cause कठोर bone समस्याएं, सहित Osteodystrophy और Paget 's disease.
प्रर्दशित साटन विसंगतियाँ is निषिद्ध by some cavy breeders ' एसोसिएशन क्युकी of animal welfare reasons.
सब cavy breeds have कुछ साझा general मानकों : the सिर प्रोफ़ाइल चाहिए be rounded, साथ विशाल आँखें और विशाल, चिकना कानों.
the body should be strong और of कॉम्पैक्ट निर्माण.
कोट colour चाहिए in all variations be clearly पारिभाषित और thorough from रूट to tip.
These standards are best मिले by long स्थापित, commonly करवाया breeds, as उनके प्रजनक have था पर्याप्त समय and पशु to effectively breed for ये qualities.
the कोट रंग ideal of good परिभाषा और thoroughness is rarely मिले by other than the चिकना coated breeds, which have था खूब स्थापित, separate breeding lines for different रंग.
राज्य स्कूलों ( also ज्ञात as पब्लिक स्कूलों or सरकारी schools ) generally refer to प्राथमिक or secondary स्कूलों mandated for or offered to सब children बगैर charge paid लिये, in पूरे or in part, by taxation.
the पद may भी refer to संस्थानों of post-secondary शिक्षा funded, in whole or in भाग, and overseen by सरकारी.
The ribosome assembles polymeric protein अणुओं जिनकी sequence is नियंत्रित by the अनुक्रम of messenger RNA molecules.
इस is जरूरी by सब living cells और associated viruses.
the राइबोसोम ( इससे ribonucleic एसिड and the यूनानी soma, अर्थ `` देह '' ) is a विशाल and complex आणविक यंत्र, found within सब जीना cells, that serves as the प्राथमिक site of biological प्रोटीन संश्लेषण ( अनुवाद ).
ribosomes कड़ी amino acids together in the order निर्दिष्ट by messenger RNA ( mrna ) अणुओं.
Ribosomes consist of two major subunits—the छोटी ribosomal subunit reads the mrna, जबकि the large subunit joins अमीनो acids to form a polypeptide chain.
Each subunit is रचित of एक or अधिक ribosomal rna ( rRNA ) molecules और a किस्में of प्रोटीन.
The अनुक्रम of DNA encoding लिये a protein may be कॉपी अनेक times into messenger RNA ( mRNA ) जंजीरों of a समान अनुक्रम.
ribosomes can bind to an mrna chain and उपयोग it as a टेम्पलेट for determining the सही अनुक्रम of amino acids in a particular protein.
अमीनो acids हैं selected, एकत्रित और carried to the ribosome by ट्रांसफ़र rna ( tRNA अणुओं ), जिससे डालें one part of the राइबोसोम और bind to the मेसेंजर RNA कड़ी.
The संलग्न अमीनो acids are तब linked together by another भाग of the राइबोसोम.
एकबार the protein is produced, it can तब 'fold ' to उपज a विशिष्ट कार्यात्मक three-dimensional ढांचा.
A राइबोसोम is बना from देवालय of rnas और प्रोटीन और is इसलिए a ribonucleoprotein.
Each ribosome is विभाजित into दो subunits : the छोटी subunit बांधता to the mrna पैटर्न, while the larger subunit binds to the trna और the amino acids.
जब a राइबोसोम finishes reading an mrna molecule, ये दो subunits विभाजित apart.
ribosomes हैं ribozymes, क्युकी the catalytic peptidyl transferase कार्यकलाप कि links अमीनो acids साथ is performed by the ribosomal rna.
Ribosomes from bacteria, archaea और eukaryotes ( the three domains of जीवन on धरती ) differ in their size, अनुक्रम, ढांचा, और the अनुपात of प्रोटीन to rna.
the differences in structure allow कुछ एंटीबायोटिक to मार जीवाणु by inhibiting their ribosomes, जबकि leaving इंसान ribosomes unaffected.
in जीवाणु और आर्किया, अधिक than एक राइबोसोम may move साथ a सिंगल mrna कड़ी at एक time, each `` reading '' इसके अनुक्रम and producing a corresponding प्रोटीन molecule.
the ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells functionally resemble अनेक सुविधाएँ of those in bacteria, reflecting the संभावित विकासवादी origin of mitochondria.
अल्बर्ट क्लॉड, ईसाई de Duve, और जार्ज एमिल Palade were jointly awarded the नोबेल Prize in Physiology or आयुर्विज्ञान, in 1974, लिये the discovery of the ribosomes.
The Nobel पुरस्कार in रसायन 2009 was awarded to venkatraman रामकृष्णन, थामस A. steitz and एडीए E. yonath लिये determining the विस्तृत structure और यांत्रिकी of the राइबोसोम.
the simplified internal structure of a chloroplast
Overview of the calvin साईकिल और कार्बन fixation
the light-independent reactions of photosynthesis हैं रासायनिक प्रतिक्रियाएँ that बदलें कार्बन dioxide and अन्य यौगिकों into glucose.
These reactions occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled area of a chloroplast बाहर of the thylakoid झिल्लियों.
ये reactions लो the light-dependent reactions और perform further रासायनिक प्रक्रियाओं on उन्हें.
वहीँ हैं तीन phases to the light-independent प्रतिक्रियाएँ, collectively पुकारा the calvin cycle : carbon fixation, कटौती प्रतिक्रियाएँ, और ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration.
despite इसके name, इस प्रक्रम occurs तभी जब light is available.
Plants do नहीं carry आउट the calvin cycle by night.
They, instead, रिलीज sucrose into the फ्लोएम इससे उनके starch reserves.
This प्रक्रम happens जब लाइट is उपलब्धियाँ स्वतंत्र of the दयालु of photosynthesis ( C3 carbon fixation, c4 कार्बन fixation, and crassulacean एसिड Metabolism ) ; CAM plants स्टोर malic एसिड in their vacuoles every night and रिलीज it by दिन in order to मेक this process work.
In mathematics, a वर्गाकार number or पूर्ण square is an पूर्णांक कि is the वर्गाकार of an integer ; in अन्य words, it is the product of some पूर्णांक साथ itself.
लिये example, 9 is a वर्गाकार क्रमांक, चूंकि it can be लिखा as.
The usual संकेतन for the सूत्र लिये the वर्गाकार of a क्रमांक is not the उत्पाद, लकिन the equivalent घातांक, प्रायः सुनाया as `` वर्गाकार ''.
the name वर्गाकार number comes इससे the नाम of the आकार ; see below.
वर्गाकार संख्याएँ हैं non-negative.
another रास्ता of saying कि a ( non-negative ) number is a वर्गाकार क्रमांक, is कि इसके square roots हैं again integers.
लिये उदाहरण, = ±3, so 9 is a वर्गाकार number.
a धनात्मक पूर्णांक कि has no पूर्ण वर्गाकार divisors मगर 1 is पुकारा square-free.
लिये a non-negative पूर्णांक, the th square number is, साथ being the zeroth square.
the अवधारणा of square can be विस्तारित to कुछ other number प्रणालियों.
if rational संख्याएँ are included, तब a वर्गाकार is the अनुपात of दो square integers, और, conversely, the अनुपात of two वर्गाकार integers is a square ( e.g., 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ).
starting with 1, वहीँ are वर्गाकार संख्याएँ up to और सहित, जहाँ the expression represents the मंजिल of the number.
the era of Good Feelings चिह्नित a काल in the राजनैतिक history of the संयुक्त States कि reflected a भाव of नेशनल purpose and a ख्वाहिश लिये unity among अमेरिकी in the aftermath of the Napoleonic युद्धों.
the era देखी the collapse of the federalist Party और an समाप्त to the bitter partisan विवादों between it and the प्रबल Democratic-Republican पार्टी दौरान the पहला पार्टी प्रणाली.
President जेम्स मुनरो endeavored to downplay दलगत संबद्ध in बनाना उसके nominations, with the परम goal of नेशनल unity और eliminating parties altogether from national राजनीती.
The काल is so closely संबद्ध with मुनरो 's presidency ( 1817–1825 ) और his प्रशासनिक goals that his नाम और the era हैं virtually synonymous.
The Era of Good Feelings चिह्नित a transition in अमरीकी राजनीती साथ the समाप्त of the Federalist पार्टी as अमेरिका began to develop after the War of 1812.
While अमेरिका थी experiencing growth और prosperity बाद the युद्ध with ब्रिटेन, इस era also marks the पहला उदाहरण of economic परेशानियों in the growing संयुक्त राज्य.
mirroring the अमरीकी System प्रस्तावित by हेनरी Clay, protective tariffs और the chartering of the Second बैंको of the United States जटिल the tension between the North and दक्षिण साथ the coming of the first financial crisis.
जबकि the term “era of Good Feelings” is प्रायः viewed साथ विडंबना because of the political turmoil, आर्थिक कारकों caused animosity between the North and South.
the नामांकन of the काल by इतिहासकारों as एक of “good feelings” is often conveyed with विडंबना or skepticism, as the इतिहास of the era थी एक in जिससे the राजनैतिक atmosphere was strained और divisive, especially among गिरोहों within the Monroe administration और the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी.
the phrase “Era of शुभ Feelings” थी coined by Benjamin रसेल, in the Boston Federalist newspaper, Columbian Centinel, on July 12, 1817, following Monroe 's विज़िट to बोस्टन, मैसाचुसेट्स as भाग of उसके good होगा दौरे of अमेरिका.
mariel मार्गरेट `` मिया '' Hamm ( born कूच 17, 1972 ) is a retired अमरीकी पेशेवर सॉकर player.
Hamm played many सालो as a आगे लिये the United States women 's national सॉकर टोली and was a founding सदस्य of the Washington स्वतंत्रता.
Hamm scored 158 international goals, अधिक than कोई अन्य खिलाड़ी, पुरूष or female, in the इतिहास of soccer और is the तीसरा सबसे capped female खिलाड़ी in सॉकर इतिहास behind Kristine लिली और Christie rampone, appearing in 275 international मिलान.
Hamm was नामित the महिलाओं 's फीफा संसार Player of the Year the पहला दो टाइम्स कि पुरस्कार was given ( in 2001 and 2002 ), और is listed as एक of FIFA 's 125 best living खिलाड़ी ( as चुनी by Pelé ).
वो थी inducted into the नेशनल सॉकर हॉल of Fame as खूब as the अलबामा खेल Hall of Fame and टेक्सास खेल हॉल of Fame.
She is the author of go लिये the Goal : a चैंपियन 's मार्गदर्शिका to Winning in Soccer और जीवन और appeared in the HBO वृत्तचित्र हिम्मत to Dream : The स्टोरी of the U.S. Women 's सॉकर टोली.
वॉशिंगटन पोस्ट columnist Michael wilbon पुकारा Hamm, `` Perhaps the most महत्वपूर्ण athlete of the पिछला 15 years. ''
hamm takes a corner लात.
The New York रेड bulls is an अमरीकी पेशेवर सॉकर team आधारित in हैरिसन, नई जर्सी, representing the नई यॉर्क महानगर क्षेत्रफल.
the टोली competes in the Eastern सम्मेलन of प्रमुख लीग Soccer ( MLS ).
it is एक of the टेन charter क्लब of MLS, having competed in the league since its inception.
The team थी a founding member of MLS ( 1996 ), but रै gone through अनेक नाम परिवर्तन.
the टोली थी originally ज्ञात as the नई York/New जर्सी metrostars through 1997.
From the 1998 ऋतु through the 2005 season, the टोली थी known as the MetroStars.
on March 9, 2006, the टोली थी sold to रेड सांड gmbh, leading to the टोली 's वर्तमान नाम.
वे हैं the only असली MLS franchise not to have won any significant trophy ( सहित regular season, playoffs, and नॉकआउट प्रतियोगिता ) चूंकि inception.
the टोली 's बेहतरीन परिणाम in the mls थी the MLS कप फाइनल in 2008.
in the US खोलें Cup, the MetroStars reached तीन semifinals ( 1997, 1998, 2000 ), before reaching उनके पहला final in 2003, खोने 1–0 to the शिकागो आग.
on August 26, 2000, the metros ' क्लिंट Mathis नियत an mls record by scoring पाँच goals in a game विरूद्ध the डलास Burn.
कुछ well-known खिलाड़ी कि have played लिये the team शामिल Giovanni Savarese, Tim हावर्ड, Tony meola, tab Ramos, alexi lalas, क्लिंट mathis, Jozy Altidore, माइकल ब्राडली, Claudio reyna, एडी Pope, Roberto donadoni, Lothar matthäus, एडोल्फो वालेंसिया, Youri djorkaeff, amado ग्वेरा, जुआन पाब्लो ángel, thierry Henry, juninho Pernambucano, जन गुन्नार solli, राफेल Márquez, और टिम काहिल.
The टोली रै also था well-known कोच, including Carlos Queiroz, Carlos Alberto parreira, बोरा milutinović, bob ब्राडली, mo Johnston, ब्रूस एरिना और Hans backe.
Confucianism, Taoism, और Buddhism हैं one, a painting in the litang style portraying three men laughing by a नदी स्ट्रीम, 12th century, सोंग Dynasty.
estimating the number of बौद्धों in the world, or in अनेक countries, is मुश्किल due to definitional issues as खूब as व्यावहारिक समस्याएं of enumeration.
to शुरू with, the religious beliefs, practices, और identities of ईस्ट एशियाइ ( जो comprise the बहुमत of the world 's बौद्धों by कोई measure ) often मिश्रण buddhism साथ other traditions सहित Confucianism, the चाइनीज लोक religion, daoism, Shinto, और कोरियाई shamanism.
Most अनुसरणकर्ता of buddhism do not belong to संरचित congregations, or observe a definite अनुष्ठान of adherence such as लेने शरण, बनाना it मुश्किल to accurately अनुमान the क्रमांक of practitioners.
an अतिरिक्त चुनौती is the hostility of several national सरकारें ( often कम्युनिस्ट ones ऐसे as China or North कोरियाई ) to religion generally or to Buddhism specifically.
सरकारी नीतियों in ये देशों may encourage the under-reporting or non-reporting of धार्मिक adherence, resulting in आधिकारिक totals कि may drastically underestimate the क्रमांक of धार्मिक practitioners in ये देशों.
अनुमान of the विश्वव्यापी बौद्ध population दायरा इससे 350 लाख to over one अरब, but क्लस्टर nearer to the first figure.
Adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a फिगर of 397 लाख.
by major शाखाओं, the संख्याएँ हैं as follows:
( 1 ) महायान Buddhism, सहित ईस्ट Asian buddhism, साथ no कम than 185 लाख adherents, और possibly अनेक टाइम्स कि many ( again, depending on definitional मुद्दे ).
This is the predominant form of Buddhism practiced in China, दक्षिण कोरियाई, जापानी, ताईवान, Singapore, और Vietnam.
( 2 ) थेरवाद Buddhism, with no कम than 125 लाख adherents.
इस is the predominant रूप of buddhism practiced in Cambodia, थाईलैंड, लाओस, Sri लंका, and Burma.
( 3 ) Vajrayana Buddhism, with लगभग 20 लाख adherents.
इस form predominates in the वृहद तिब्बती और Mongolian regions, as खूब as in the हिमालय.
besides the स्वतंत्र देशों of मंगोल और Bhutan, और various territories भीतर what is अभी western चीन, वज्रयान is traditional to निश्चित regions of Russia ( e.g. कालमिकिया, बुर्यातिया ), India ( e.g. Ladakh, Sikkim ), and नेपाल ( e.g. khumbu ).
Vajrayana, also ज्ञात as तिब्बती buddhism, is प्रायः conflated साथ तांत्रिक Buddhism, लकिन this is imprecise, as Shingon and other forms of ईस्ट एशियाई buddhism भी practice तन्त्र.
at least 7 देशों ( श्री लंका, Thailand, कंबोडिया, Laos, Burma, Bhutan, और मंगोल ) have unambiguous बौद्ध majorities.
depending on how one calculates चाइनीज और other East Asian adherents, this figure might expand to शामिल अनेक more देशों.
in जोड, buddhism is the राज्य religion of कंबोडिया and भूटान, और receives prominent जिक्र in the constitutions of थाईलैंड और श्री Lanka.
in northern India और नेपाल, the जमीन where buddhism थी born, the religion severely अस्वीकृत दौरान the पहला मिलेनियम.
Whether this मनाही थी due to the इस्लामी conquest of उत्तरी India, or to other कारकों, remains विवादास्पद.
देखिए the article Decline of Buddhism in India.
James Butler hickok ( may 27, 1837 – August 2, 1876 ), बेहतर ज्ञात as जंगली विधेयक hickok, थी a लोक नायिका of the अमरीकी Old West.
His कौशल as a gunfighter और स्काउट, साथ साथ उसके reputation as a lawman, provided the आधार लिये his कीर्ति, हालांकि some of उसके reported exploits are fictionalized.
born और raised on a फार्म in ग्रामीण इलिनोइस, Hickok गई वेस्ट at age 18 as a भगोड़े इससे इंसाफ, पहला working as a stagecoach driver, पहले he became a lawman in the frontier territories of कान्सास और नेब्रास्का.
He लड़ा for the संघ फौज दौरान the American Civil War, और gained publicity after the युद्ध as a scout, marksman, कर्ता, and पेशेवर जुआरी.
between his law-enforcement duties और gambling, जिससे easily overlapped, Hickok थी involved in अनेक notable shootouts.
He थी शॉट और मारे जबकि playing poker in the Nuttal & Mann 's सैलून in Deadwood, Dakota territory ( अभी South डकोटा ).
कलाकार 's conception of the जिज्ञासा rover vaporizing rock on Mars.
the rover उतरा on Mars in अगस्त 2012.
a मंगल रोवर is an स्वचालित मोटर vehicle जिससे propels itself आरपार the सतह of the ग्रह Mars after लैंडिंग.
रोवर्स have अनेक लाभ over stationary landers : they जाँचें अधिक territory, वे can be निर्देशित to दिलचस्प सुविधाएँ, वे can place themselves in सनी स्थितियाँ to मौसम शीत months और they can अग्रिम the knowledge of how to perform बहुत remote रोबोटिक गाडी कंट्रोल.
There have been four successful robotically संचालित Mars rovers.
the जेट नोदन Laboratory managed the Mars Pathfinder मिशन और इसके now inactive sojourner rover.
it फिलहाल manages the मंगल खोजी रोवर mission 's active अवसर रोवर और inactive स्पिरिट, और, as part of the Mars Science प्रयोगशाला mission, the जिज्ञासा रोवर.
a financial ऑडिट, or अधिक accurately, an ऑडिट of financial statements, is the verification of the वित्तीय statements of a विधिक एंटिटी, with a दृश्य to express an ऑडिट opinion.
the ऑडिट opinion is intended to provide reasonable परख, लकिन नहीं निरपेक्ष परख, that the financial statements are प्रस्तुत fairly, in सब सामग्री respects, and/or दे a true और fair दृश्य in accordance with the वित्तीय रिपोर्टिंग फ्रेमवर्क.
the purpose of an audit is provide और उद्देश्य स्वतंत्र examination of the वित्तीय कथन, जिससे increases the value और credibility of the financial कथन उत्पादित by प्रबन्धन, thus बढ़ाएँ उपयोक्ता विश्वास in the वित्तीय बयान, reduce investor risk और consequently reduce the cost of पूंजी of the preparer of the वित्तीय कथन.
वित्तीय audits हैं typically performed by firms of practicing accountants who हैं experts in वित्तीय रिपोर्टिंग.
The वित्तीय ऑडिट is one of अनेक assurance functions provided by हिसाब firms.
अनेक organizations separately employ or hire आतंरिक auditors, जो do नहीं attest to financial रिपोर्ट्स लकिन focus mainly on the आतंरिक नियंत्रण of the organization.
बाह्य auditors may चुनें to प्लेस सीमित रिलायंस on the कार्य of आतंरिक auditors.
Auditing promotes पारदर्शिता और accuracy in the financial disclosures बना by an संगठन, therefore would likely to reduce of ऐसे corporations to छिपाते unscrupulous dealings.
Internationally, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मानकों on auditing ( isa ) जारी by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय auditing and Assurance Standards फलक ( iaasb ) is माना as the benchmark लिये ऑडिट process.
Almost all jurisdictions आवश्यकता auditors to follow the isa or a लोकल विभिन्नता of the isa.
डालर सिक्के have महरूम minted in the United राज्य in सुनहरा, चांदी, and base मेटल संस्करण.
the term चांदी dollar is प्रायः प्रयुक्त लिये कोई विशाल white metal सिक्का जारी by the United राज्य साथ a face value of एक डालर, हालांकि purists insist that a dollar is नहीं silver जबतक it contains कुछ of कि metal.
चांदी डॉलर, the पहला dollar coin issue, यहूद minted beginning in 1794.
Gold डॉलर और gold-colored dollars have भी been उत्पादित by the संयुक्त States.
The sacagawea and अध्यक्षीय डॉलर are often referred to as `` सुनहरी डॉलर ''.
In modern टाइम्स, डालर सिक्के have नहीं महरूम very लोकप्रिय in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Despite प्रयत्न by the government to प्रचार उनके use, most Americans फिलहाल उपयोग the एक डालर विधेयक rather than डालर coins.
in straight और स्तर उड़ान लिफ्ट ( L ) बराबरी वज़न ( W ).
In a banked turn of 60°, लिफ्ट equals दोगुना the weight ( l=2w ).
the पायलट अनुभवों 2g and a doubled weight.
The steeper the बैंको, the वृहद the g-forces.
This top-fuel dragster can accelerate इससे zero to in 0.86 सेकेंड.
This is a horizontal acceleration of 5.3 g. Combined साथ the लंबवत g-force in the stationary case the pythagorean theorem yields a g फ़ोर्स of 5.4 g.
g-force ( साथ g इससे गुरुत्वाकर्षक ) is a term लिये accelerations लगा as weight और measurable by accelerometers.
it is not a फ़ोर्स, प्रति se, but a फ़ोर्स प्रति ईकाई द्रव्यमान.
Since ऐसे a फ़ोर्स is perceived as a weight, कोई g-force can be वर्णित as a `` वज़न per unit mass '' ( देखिए the पर्याय specific weight ).
the g-force त्वरण अधिनियमों as a गुणक of weight-like शक्तियां लिये प्रत्येक ईकाई of an ऑब्जेक्ट 's mass, और ( सहेजें लिये certain इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक force influences ) is the कारण of an ऑब्जेक्ट 's acceleration in relation to free-fall.
इस त्वरण अनुभवी by an ऑब्जेक्ट is due to the vector sum of non-gravitational forces एक्टिंग on an ऑब्जेक्ट फ़्री to move.
The accelerations that हैं नहीं उत्पादित by गम्भीरता are termed proper accelerations, and it is तभी ये that हैं measured in g-force units.
वे कारण stresses and strains on वस्तुएँ.
क्युकी of these strains, large g-forces may be destructive.
gravitation एक्टिंग अलोन करता नहीं produce a g-force, भी हालांकि g-forces are expressed in multiples of the acceleration of a standard गम्भीरता.
यूँ, the standard गुरुत्वाकर्षक त्वरण at the Earth 's surface produces g-force तभी indirectly, as a result of resistance to it by mechanical शक्तियां.
The 1 g-force on an ऑब्जेक्ट बैठे on the धरती 's surface is caused by mechanical फ़ोर्स exerted in the upward direction by the मैदान, keeping the ऑब्जेक्ट from going into free-fall.
the upward फ़ोर्स from the मैदान ensures कि an ऑब्जेक्ट at rest on the धरती 's सतह is accelerating relative to the free-fall कंडीशन, जिससे is the path कि the object would follow जब गिरना freely toward the धरती 's center.
वस्तुएँ अनुमत to free-fall in an inertial trajectory under the influence of gravitation-only, महसूस no g-force.
इस is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' शर्तें inside a freely falling लिफ्ट गिरना toward the धरती 's center ( in वैक्यूम ), or ( to शुभ approximation ) शर्तें inside a spacecraft in Earth orbit.
ये are उदाहरण of निर्देशांक त्वरण ( a बदलें in गति ) बगैर a सनसनी of वज़न.
the अनुभव of no g-force ( zero-g ), however it is produced, is synonymous with weightlessness.
In the absence of गुरुत्वाकर्षक fields, or in directions at right angles to them, proper और निर्देशांक accelerations हैं the same, and any coordinate acceleration जरूर be produced by a सम्बन्धित g-force acceleration.
an उदाहरण here is a प्रक्षेपास्त्र in free space, in जिससे simple changes in गति हैं produced by the इंजन, और produce g-forces on the प्रक्षेपास्त्र and passengers.
An augur holding a lituus, the curved wand प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a symbol of augury on रोमन सिक्के
the augur थी a पुजारी और official in the शास्त्रीय संसार, विशेषकर ancient Rome and etruria.
उसके प्रमुख भूमिका थी to interpret the will of the देवताओं by अध्ययन the उड़ान of birds : whether they हैं उड़ती in groups or अलोन, कया noises वे make as they fly, दिशा of flight और कया kind of पक्षियों they are.
This was known as `` लेने the auspices. ''
the रस्म और फलन of the augur थी central to कोई major undertaking in रोमन society—public or private—including matters of युद्ध, commerce, और धर्म.
the रोमन इतिहासकार Livy तनावों the importance of the augurs : `` Who करता not जान कि इस city was founded only after लेने the auspices, कि everything in युद्ध and in सलाम, at घर और विदेश, थी किया तभी बाद लेने the auspices ? ''
farmington पहाड़ियाँ is an affluent community in southeastern Michigan.
It is the दूसरी largest नगर in Oakland काउंटी in the u.S. state of मिशिगन.
Its जनसांख्यिकी थी 79,740 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
It is part of the upscale northwestern suburbs of Metropolitan डेट्रॉयट और is भी पूर्वोत्तर of शहर ऐन Arbor.
farmington पहाड़ियाँ consistently ranks as एक of the safest शहरों in the संयुक्त राज्य, as खूब as in the राज्य of मिशिगन.
in 2010, the क्षेत्रफल ranked as the 30th safest नगर in अमेरिका.
हालांकि the two शहरों have separate सेवाएं और addresses, farmington और farmington पहाड़ियाँ हैं often विचार of as the वही community.
Features of the community शामिल a recently संवर शहर, boutiques, a विंटेज cinema, numerous रेस्तरां, exotic car dealerships, art गैलरी, और public पार्क सहित विरासत पार्क.
There हैं अनेक historical sites सहित the longacre हाउस और the Governor warner Mansion.
Both cities हैं परोसा by Farmington पब्लिक स्कूलों.
farmington पहाड़ियाँ serves as a प्रमुख business center for the वृहद डेट्रॉयट क्षेत्रफल.
present-day छाप of a लेट Bronze Age seal
कस्बा मुहर ( मेट्रिक्स ) of náchod इससे 1570
a मुहर is a device लिये बनाना an छाप in मोम, clay, paper, or some अन्य मीडियम, including an embossment on पेपर, और is also the impression यूँ made.
The original purpose was to authenticate a दस्तावेज़, a wrapper लिये एक ऐसे as a आधुनिक लिफाफा, or the cover of a संग्राहक or पैकेज पकड़कर valuables or other objects.
The sealing process is essentially कि of a mould, साथ the फाइनल चित्र represented on the यंत्र for बनाना the impression by a mirror-image design, incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) राहत or intaglio.
The seal-making यंत्र is भी referred to as the मुहर मेट्रिक्स or die ; the imprint it creates as the मुहर छाप ( or, more rarely, the sealing ).
If the छाप is बना purely as a relief resulting from the वृहद दबाव on the पेपर where the high भाग of the matrix touch, the मुहर is known as a dry मुहर ; in all other cases a द्रव or liquified medium ( such as स्याही or wax ) is प्रयुक्त, usually in another color than the paper.
लिये legal उद्देश्य, the definition of a seal may be extended to शामिल रबर stamps, or लिखने निर्दिष्ट शब्द ( `` seal '' or `` l.s. `` ).
In the United राज्य, the शब्द `` seal '' is sometimes आबंटित to a facsimile of the मुहर design ( in मोनोक्रोम or रंग ), which may be used in a किस्में of contexts including architectural जमावट, on ध्वज, or on official letterheads.
यूँ, लिये example, the ग्रेट Seal of the संयुक्त States, among अन्य उपयोग, appears on the रिवर्स of the one-dollar विधेयक ; and several of the seals of the U.S. राज्य appear on उनके संबंधित राज्य flags.
In यूरोपीय, although coats of बाहें and heraldic badges may well feature in ऐसे contexts as खूब as on seals, the मुहर डिज़ाइन in its entirety rarely appears as an emblem.
the study of seals is ज्ञात as sigillography or sphragistics.
Groundhog दिन ( Pennsylvania जर्मनी : grundsaudaag, Murmeltiertag ) is a दिन मनाये on फ़रवरी 2.
According to folklore, if it is cloudy when a groundhog emerges इससे its burrow on इस day, then वसन्त होगा come early ; if it is सनी, the groundhog होगा माना देखिए इसके छाया and रिट्रीट back into इसके burrow, और the शीत weather will continue लिये छह अधिक सप्ताह.
Modern कस्टम of the अवकाश involve celebrations where जल्दी morning त्यौहार are आयोजित to देखें the groundhog emerging from इसके burrow.
in southeastern Pennsylvania, groundhog Lodges ( grundsow lodges ) celebrate the holiday with fersommlinge, सोशल events in जिससे खाना is परोसा, भाषणों हैं बना, और एक or अधिक g'spiel ( plays or skits ) हैं performed for entertainment.
The पेन्सिलवेनिया जर्मनी dialect is the only भाषा बोला at the इवेंट, and those जो speak English अदा a दंड, usually in the रूप of a nickel, dime, or क्वार्टर प्रति शब्द spoken, साथ the धन put into a कटोरी in the center of the table.
The largest groundhog दिन celebration is held in Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania.
groundhog Day, already a widely पहचाना and लोकप्रिय tradition, received फैली attention as a परिणाम of the 1993 film groundhog Day, जिससे थी set in Punxsutawney, PA ( though फिल्माया primarily in Woodstock, il ) and portrayed punxsutawney Phil.
ऊँची रेज़ोल्यूशन चित्र of Tampa Bay प्रदेश
the tampa Bay क्षेत्रफल has a humid उपोष्ण climate ( koppen Cfa ), साथ warm and humid summers with frequent thunderstorms and drier winters with freezing temperatures occurring प्रत्येक 2–3 सालो.
the area experiences a significant summer wet ऋतु, as nearly two-thirds of the annual precipitation जलप्रपात in the months of जून through सितंबर.
The area is सूचीबद्ध by the United राज्य विभाग of Agriculture ( USDA ) as होने in hardiness zone 10, which is about the उत्तरी limit of जहाँ coconut palms and royal हथेलियां can be grown.
highs प्रायः range between 65 and 95 °f ( 18 और 35 °C ) साल गोलाकार.
हालांकि ज्ञात for hot summers, tampa 's official ऊँची रै never reached 100 °f ( 38 °c ) – the नगर 's all-time रिकार्ड तापमान is 99 °F ( 37 °c ).
st. Petersburg 's all-time record ऊँची is exactly 100 °f ( 38 °C ).
pinellas County झूठ on a peninsula between Tampa खाड़ी and the गल्फ of मैक्सिको, and much of the नगर of Tampa झूठ on a छोटी प्रायद्वीप jutting आउट into Tampa खाड़ी.
This निकटता to large लाशें of water both नरमपंथियों temperatures and introduces विशाल amounts of आर्द्रता into the atmosphere.
in सामान्य, the लोकल समुदायों farthest इससे the coast have larger temperature सीमाएँ, both during a सिंगल day and throughout the seasons of the year.
A आरेख of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम, showing विभिन्न गुण across the दायरा of frequencies और wavelengths
The इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम is the दायरा of सब possible बारंबारता of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक radiation.
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an ऑब्जेक्ट has a अलग meaning, and is बजाय the characteristic वितरण of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक radiation उत्सर्जित or अवशोषित by कि particular object.
the electromagnetic spectrum extends इससे नीचे the low बारंबारता used लिये modern रेडियो संचार to गामा विकिरण at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end, thereby covering wavelengths इससे हज़ारों of किलोमीटर bas to a भिन्न of the आकार of an अणु.
The सीमा लिये long wavelengths is the आकार of the ब्रह्मांड itself, while it is विचार कि the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the Planck लंबाई, हालांकि in principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous.
सबसे parts of the electromagnetic spectrum हैं used in science लिये spectroscopic and other probing interactions, as तरीके to पढ़ाई और characterize पदार्थ.
in जोड, radiation from विभिन्न parts of the वर्णक्रम रै found अनेक अन्य uses लिये संचार and निर्माण ( देखिए इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण for more अनुप्रयोग ).
Legend
फ्रैंकलिन delano रूज़वेल्ट ( or ; जनवरी 30, 1882 – अप्रैल 12, 1945 ), also known by उसके आद्याक्षर, FDR, was the 32nd अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1933–1945 ) और a central figure in संसार कार्यक्रम दौरान the mid-20th सदी, अग्रणी the संयुक्त States दौरान a समय of worldwide आर्थिक अवसाद and कुल युद्ध.
a dominant leader of the Democratic पार्टी और the तभी अमरीकी president निर्वाचित to अधिक than दो terms, he निर्मित a New सौदे Coalition कि realigned American राजनीती after 1932, as उसके घरेलू policies पारिभाषित अमरीकी liberalism लिये the मध्य third of the 20th सदी.
With the bouncy लोकप्रिय song `` Happy दिनों हैं यहाँ again `` as उसके campaign थीम, fdr पराजित लाज़िम Republican Herbert हूवर in November 1932, at the depth of the ग्रेट अवसाद.
सक्रिय by उसके personal विजय over पोलियो, FDR 's unfailing आशावाद और सक्रियता contributed to a renewal of the नेशनल spirit.
he worked closely with अंग्रेजों प्रधान मंत्री विंस्टन Churchill और सोवियत सामान्य सचिव Joseph स्टालिन in अग्रणी the Allies विरूद्ध Germany और जापानी in World युद्ध ii, and restoring prosperity to the nation 's अर्थव्यवस्था.
in उसके पहला सौ दिनों in दफ्तर, जिससे began कूच 4, 1933, रूज़वेल्ट spearheaded major legislation and issued a profusion of कार्यपालिका आदेश that instituted the New Deal —a किस्में of programs designed to produce relief ( सरकारी कार्य लिये the unemployed ), recovery ( economic growth ), and reform ( through regulation of Wall गली, बैंको और परिवहन ).
the अर्थव्यवस्था improved rapidly इससे 1933 to 1937, लकिन then relapsed into a गहन recession.
the bipartisan रूढ़िवादी Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his पैकिंग the परम् अदालत or गुजर कोई considerable legislation ; it abolished many of the राहत programs जब बेरोजगारी diminished दौरान संसार युद्ध ii.
Most of the regulations on कारोबार were ended about 1975–85, except लिये the विनियमन of Wall गली by the प्रतिभूति और एक्सचेंज आयोग, which स्टिल exists.
साथ with अनेक smaller कार्यक्रम, major surviving कार्यक्रम शामिल the संघीय Deposit बीमे निगम, which थी निर्मित in 1933, और सोशल Security, जिससे कॉंग्रेस passed in 1935.
As World युद्ध ii loomed बाद 1938, साथ the जापानी आक्रमण of चीन and the aggression of नाजी Germany, fdr gave strong diplomatic and financial support to चीन and ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, while बाकी officially न्यूट्रल.
उसके goal थी to मेक अमेरिका the `` आर्सेनल of लोकतंत्र `` जिससे होता सप्लाई munitions to the allies.
In कूच 1941, Roosevelt, with Congressional स्वीकृति, provided lend-lease सहायता to the countries fighting against नाजी Germany साथ ब्रिटेन.
साथ very दमदार नेशनल support, he बना war on जापानी और जर्मनी बाद the जापानी आक्रमण on पर्ल हार्बर on December 7, 1941, calling it a `` तिथि जिससे होगा सजीव in infamy ``.
He पर्यवेक्षित the mobilization of the u.S. अर्थव्यवस्था to support the Allied युद्ध प्रयत्न.
As an क्रियाशील military leader, Roosevelt implemented an overall war रणनीति on दो fronts that ended in the defeat of the Axis शक्तियां और the development of the world 's पहला अणु bomb.
in 1942 रूज़वेल्ट ordered the internment of 100,000 जापानी अमरीकी civilians.
Unemployment dropped to 2 %, relief programs largely ended, और the औद्योगिक अर्थव्यवस्था grew rapidly to new heights as millions of लोगों स्थानांतरित to new कार्य in war centers, and 16 million men and 300,000 women यहूद drafted or volunteered for सैन्य सेवा.
Roosevelt dominated the अमरीकी राजनैतिक scene not तभी दौरान the बारह सालो of उसके presidency, but भी लिये दशकों afterward.
He orchestrated the realignment of मतदाता कि created the Fifth Party System.
fdr 's New Deal गठबन्धन संयुक्त मजदूर unions, big नगर मशीने, white ethnics, अफ़्रीकी Americans और ग्रामीण white Southerners.
He also बहकावे the बाद creation of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र and Bretton वुड्स.
रूज़वेल्ट is consistently रेटेड by scholars as एक of the शीर्ष three u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों, साथ साथ अब्राहम lincoln and George Washington.
a उदार Democrat, Roosevelt पारिभाषित उसके वैचारिक स्थिति as `` a छोटी left of बीच. ''
A संयुक्त कमेटी is a term in राजनीती that is used to refer to a कमेटी made up of सदस्यों of दोनो chambers of a bicameral विधानमंडल.
In other contexts, it refers to a committee साथ सदस्यों इससे अधिक than one संगठन.
The regulation of वेश्यावृति in the United States is नहीं among the enumerated शक्तियां of the संघीय government ; अंतर्गत the दसवाँ amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य Constitution, it is therefore exclusively the डोमेन of the राज्य to permit, prohibit, or वरना regulate वाणिज्यिक sex, except insofar as कॉंग्रेस may regulate it as भाग of interstate कॉमर्स साथ laws जैसे the Mann अधिनियम.
In most states, prostitution is considered a misdemeanor in the श्रेणी of public अनुक्रम अपराधों, a crime that disrupts the order of a community.
it was at एक समय माना to be a vagrancy अपराधों.
फिलहाल, नेवाडा is the only राज्य to allow वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति, the शर्तें of जिससे are stipulated in the नेवाडा संशोधित statutes.
तभी 8 counties फिलहाल contain क्रियाशील brothels.
सब forms of वेश्यावृति हैं illegal in क्लार्क काउंटी ( which contains the लास vegas–paradise महानगर क्षेत्रफल ), washoe काउंटी ( जिससे contains Reno ), Carson City, डगलस County, और lincoln काउंटी.
the अन्य काउंटी theoretically allow brothel वेश्यावृति, लकिन कुछ of ये काउंटी currently have no क्रियाशील brothels.
Street वेश्यावृति, `` pandering, '' and जीना बंद of the proceeds of a वेश्या remain illegal अंतर्गत नेवाडा विधि, as elsewhere in the देश.
as साथ अन्य देशों, prostitution in the संयुक्त States can be विभाजित into तीन व्यापक categories : गली वेश्यावृति, वेश्यालय prostitution, और अनुरक्षण prostitution.
the national ध्वज of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका, प्रायः simply referred to as the अमरीकी ध्वज, consists of तेरह बराबर horizontal धारियाँ of रेड ( शीर्ष and नीचे ) प्रत्यावर्ती साथ white, with a blue आयताकार in the कैण्टन ( referred to specifically as the `` संघ '' ) bearing fifty छोटी, white, five-pointed सितारों arranged in नौ offset horizontal पंक्ति of छह stars ( शीर्ष and bottom ) alternating साथ पंक्ति of पाँच stars.
the 50 सितारों on the flag represent the 50 states of the संयुक्त राज्य of America and the 13 धारियाँ represent the तेरह अंग्रेजों colonies that घोषित स्वतंत्रता इससे the किंगडम of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन and became the पहला states in the संघ.
nicknames लिये the flag शामिल the `` सितारों और धारियाँ '', `` बूढ़ा Glory ``, and `` The star-spangled Banner. ''
इण्डिया is a संघीय union of states comprising twenty-eight राज्य और सात संघ territories.
the states और territories are further subdivided into जिले और so on.
Congressional जिले for the 113th संयुक्त States कॉंग्रेस
2010 जनसांख्यिकी change:
बदलें in apportionment of congressional जिले, starting in 2013, as a परिणाम of the 2010 census.
2000 जनसांख्यिकी change:
Change in apportionment of congressional जिले, from 2003 to 2013, as a परिणाम of the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
This is a पूरा सूची of congressional जिले for representation in the United राज्य हाउस of Representatives.
the quantity ( apportionment ) and boundaries ( redistricting ) of districts are संकल्पित after प्रत्येक census, हालांकि in कुछ cases राज्य have बदला the सीमाएँ more than once प्रति जनसांख्यिकी.
इस सूची शामिल the 435 current और over 200 obsolete जिले.
लिये उदाहरण, since the 2000 census, नेब्रास्का रै had तीन districts, लकिन it used to have as अनेक as छह.
In the first दशक of the twenty-first सदी, Texas था 32 जिले, लकिन has चूंकि added चार due to reapportionment as a result of the 2010 census.
Other राज्य have खोया जिले चूंकि the क्रमांक of congressional सीटे रै महरूम नियत at 435 by statute.
भी शामिल here are non-voting delegations : six वर्तमान और चार obsolete.
the सीमाएँ of districts प्रायः शिफ़्ट साथ प्रत्येक redistricting.
over समय, the प्रदेश and जनसांख्यिकी represented in a ज़िला can change substantially.
Furthermore, districts sometimes retain the वही सीमाएँ जबकि changing their district numbers.
mariah कैरी ( born कूच 27, 1970 ) is an American singer, songwriter, record निर्माता, अभिनेत्री, and philanthropist.
अंतर्गत the मार्गदर्शन of Columbia रिकॉर्ड executive Tommy mottola, कैरी released उसके self-titled डेब्यू स्टुडियो एल्बम Mariah Carey in 1990 ; it went multi-platinum और शाखित चार consecutive number one singles on the u.s. बिलबोर्ड hot 100 चार्ट.
Following उसके विवाह to Mottola in 1993 और कामयाबी साथ hit रिकॉर्ड भाव ( 1991 ), Music बक्सा ( 1993 ), और Merry क्रिसमस ( 1994 ), कैरी थी स्थापित as कोलंबिया 's highest-selling अधिनियम.
daydream ( 1995 ) made music इतिहास when इसके second सिंगल `` एक Sweet दिन ``, a duet with बॉयज II मेन, खर्च a रिकार्ड sixteen weeks on top of the बिलबोर्ड hot 100, और remains the longest-running number-one सोंग in u.S. चार्ट इतिहास.
During the recording of the album, कैरी began to deviate from her R & B और पॉप beginnings and धीरे traversed into hip हॉप.
इस musical बदलें became evident with the release of Butterfly ( 1997 ), at जिससे समय कैरी had अलग इससे mottola.
कैरी left कोलंबिया in 2000, और signed a record-breaking $ 100 लाख रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध साथ वर्जिन Records.
Before the release of उसके first feature फिल्मी glitter ( 2001 ), वो suffered a शारीरिक और emotional breakdown and was hospitalized लिये कठोर थकावट.
following the फिल्मी 's poor reception, वो थी खरीदा आउट of उसके रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध लिये $ 50 million, जिससे led to a मनाही in her करियर.
वो हस्ताक्षरित a multi-million डालर contract सौदे साथ द्वीप रिकॉर्ड in 2002, and after an unsuccessful period, लौटे to the top of म्यूज़िक चार्ट with The Emancipation of मिमी ( 2005 ).
इसके second single `` we belong साथ `` became उसके most कामयाब सिंगल of the 2000s, और थी later named `` Song of the दशक '' by बिलबोर्ड.
Carey एकबार again ventured into फिल्मी साथ a well-received अभिनीत भूमिका in ( 2009 ) ; she थी awarded the `` भेदन Performance पुरस्कार '' at the ताड़ Springs अंतरराष्ट्रीय Film पर्व, and ब्लैक Reel और naacp Image पुरस्कार nominations.
in a करियर spanning over दो दशकों, कैरी has sold अधिक than 200 million records विश्वव्यापी, making उसके एक of the best-selling music कलाकारों of सब समय.
in 1998, वो was honored as the संसार 's best-selling रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार of the 1990s at the संसार म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार.
कैरी was भी नामित the best-selling female कलाकार of the मिलेनियम in 2000.
according to the रिकॉर्डिंग Industry Association of अमेरिका, वो is the तीसरा best-selling female artist in the संयुक्त राज्य, साथ 63.5 लाख certified albums.
With the release of `` Touch My देह `` ( 2008 ), Carey gained her eighteenth क्रमांक एक single in the United राज्य, अधिक than any other सोलो कलाकार.
in 2012, कैरी थी क्रमित दूसरी on vh1 's list of the `` 100 महानतम महिलाओं in Music ''.
aside इससे उसके commercial accomplishments, कैरी रै won five ग्रैमी Awards, 17 संसार Music पुरस्कार, 11 अमरीकी Music Awards, and 31 बिलबोर्ड Music Awards.
Referred to as the `` songbird परम् '' by the Guinness संसार रिकॉर्ड, वो is famed लिये her five-octave गायन दायरा, शक्ति, melismatic स्टाइल and signature use of the सीटी पंजीकरण.
Stratocumulus stratiformis cumulogenitus
in meteorology, a बादल is a visible द्रव्यमान of liquid droplets or frozen crystals made of water or various chemicals निलंबित in the atmosphere above the सतह of a ग्रहीय देह.
These निलंबित अणु are also known as aerosols.
बादल in Earth 's atmosphere are पढ़ाई in the बादल भौतिकी शाखा of meteorology.
दो processes, संभवतः एक्टिंग साथ, can सीसे to air बनने संतृप्त ; cooling the एयर or adding जल वाष्प to the एयर.
In सामान्य, precipitation होगा fall to the surface ; an exception is virga, which evaporates before reaching the सतह.
the अंतरराष्ट्रीय बादल वर्गीकरण प्रणाली is आधारित on the फैक्ट clouds in उनके most मौलिक फ़ॉर्म can show free-convective upward विकास जैसे कपासी, appear in non-convective layered चादरें ऐसे as स्ट्रेट्स, or लो the रूप of पतला तंतुमय wisps, as in the मामला of पक्षाभ.
prefixes हैं used in कनेक्शन with बादल to express विसंगतियाँ or complexities in these मौलिक forms or to बताएँ मध्य or high ऊँचाई सीमाएँ.
These शामिल strato- for low बादल with सीमित convection कि form ज़्यादातर in uneven परतों, cumulo- for complex highly-convective तूफ़ान बादल, nimbo- लिये thick layered बादल of कुछ complexity that can उपज मॉडरेट to heavy precipitation, alto- लिये middle clouds, and cirro- लिये high clouds ; the latter दो of which may be of सरल or moderately जटिल structure.
Whether or not a बादल is कम, middle, or ऊँची level depends on कैसा दूर ऊपर the मैदान इसके base फ़ॉर्म.
Cloud types with significant लंबवत extent can रूप in the low or middle ऊँचाई सीमाएँ depending on the moisture सामग्री of the एयर.
बादल in the troposphere have लैटिन names due to the लोकप्रिय adaptation of ल्यूक हावर्ड 's cloud categorization प्रणाली, जिससे began to स्प्रेड in popularity दौरान दिसम्बर 1802.
Synoptic सतह मौसम observations उपयोग कोड संख्याएँ to record and report the types of tropospheric बादल दृश्य at प्रत्येक अनुसूचित अवलोकन समय based on the ऊँचाई और शारीरिक appearance of the clouds.
जबकि a बहुमत of बादल form in धरती 's क्षोभमण्डल, there हैं occasions जब बादल in the stratosphere और mesosphere can be observed.
ये three प्रमुख परतों of the atmosphere जहाँ बादल may be seen हैं collectively known as the homosphere.
Above इस झूठ the thermosphere और exosphere, which साथ मेक up the heterosphere कि marks the परिवर्तन to बाहरी space.
बादल have महरूम observed on अन्य ग्रह और moons भीतर the सौर प्रणाली, लकिन, due to their अलग तापमान विशेषताएँ, वे are रचित of अन्य substances ऐसे as मिथेन, अमोनिया, और sulfuric acid.
Galveston County is a county located in the U.S. राज्य of टेक्सास भीतर the Houston–Sugar land–baytown metropolitan क्षेत्रफल.
As of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, the जनसांख्यिकी was 291,309.
Its county seat is Galveston.
League City is the largest नगर in galveston County in terms of जनसांख्यिकी ; url_http between 2000 and 2005 it surpassed galveston as the काउंटी 's largest नगर.
galveston County was founded in 1838.
nassau
Freeport, Bahamas
This is a सूची of cities in the Bahamas.
the following तालिका lists the नगर or town नाम, the भौगोलिक निर्देशांक, the जनसांख्यिकी as of the 1990 जनसांख्यिकी, an estimate of the जनसांख्यिकी as of 2009, and the island नाम.
The Big टेन सम्मेलन, formerly Western सम्मेलन और Big Nine Conference, is the oldest Division I कॉलेज एथलेटिक सम्मेलन in the संयुक्त States.
Its बारह सदस्य संस्थानों ( which हैं primarily flagship शोध universities in उनके संबंधित राज्य, well-regarded academically, और साथ अपेक्षाकृत large student नामांकन ) हैं स्तिथ primarily in the Midwest, stretching इससे नेब्रास्का in the वेस्ट to Penn State in the east.
The सम्मेलन competes in the NCAA 's Division i ; इसके football टीमों compete in the फ़ुटबॉल कटोरी subdivision ( FBS ), formerly ज्ञात as Division i-a, the उच्चतम स्तर of NCAA प्रतियोगिता in कि खेल.
सदस्य स्कूलों of the बिग Ten ( or, in दो cases, उनके parent विश्वविद्यालयों systems ) भी are सदस्यों of the कमेटी on Institutional Cooperation, a leading शैक्षणिक और शोध consortium.
Despite the सम्मेलन 's नाम, the बिग टेन actually consists of 12 schools, following the जोड of the Pennsylvania State विश्वविद्यालयों in 1993 and the विश्वविद्यालयों of nebraska–lincoln in 2011.
in 2014, the सम्मेलन होगा expand to 14 members with the additions of the University of मेरीलैंड, कॉलेज Park and rutgers, the State विश्वविद्यालयों of New जर्सी.
it is नहीं to be उलझन with the बिग 12 Conference, which रै only टेन स्कूलों and represents a different प्रदेश of the देश.
सिंगल malt Scotch is single malt व्हिस्की बना in स्कॉटलैंड using a pot स्टिल distillation process at a सिंगल डिस्टिलरी, with malted barley as the तभी grain संघटक.
As with कोई Scotch whisky, a सिंगल malt स्कॉच must be आसुत in स्कॉटलैंड और matured in ओक casks in Scotland लिये at least तीन years ( सबसे single malts हैं matured longer ).
`` malt '' indicates कि the व्हिस्की is आसुत from a `` malted '' अनाज.
अनेक types of grains can be malted ( for उदाहरण, जौ, rye और wheat हैं all दाने जिससे can be malted ) ; however, in the मामला of सिंगल malt स्कॉच, barley is सदा the तभी grain used.
`` सिंगल '' indicates that all the malts in the bottle come from a single डिस्टिलरी.
Bottlings containing malt व्हिस्की from अनेक distilleries are पुकारा `` blended malt ``.
Until the स्कॉच Whisky regulations 2009 ( SWR 2009 ), the word `` blended '' only appeared ( in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of Scotch whisky ) on बोतलों of whisky that contained a मिश्रण of both barley और non-barley grain whisky, but इस is no longer the मामला.
अंतर्गत the terminology established by the swr 2009, a `` blended malt स्कॉच व्हिस्की '' is a mixture of सिंगल malt Scotch whiskies, not a मिश्रण of malted barley व्हिस्की और non-barley whisky ; those हैं पुकारा `` blended स्कॉच व्हिस्की '', without the word `` malt ''.
the पद `` blended malt '' replaced `` vatted malt '' used अंतर्गत the prior labelling conventions.
The age बयान on a बोतल of सिंगल malt स्कॉच is the क्रमांक of सालो the व्हिस्की खर्च maturing in cask.
as बहुत few whiskies are bottled from a single cask the age statement reflects the age of the youngest malt in the मिक्सर.
a texture may be arranged so as to, `` closely दृष्टिकोण the single-object status of fused-ensemble timbres, for example, the खूबसूरत 'northern lights ' कॉर्ड..., in a very interesting वितरण of pitches, produces a fused ध्वनि समर्थित by a निलंबित cymbal फेंकें `` ( एरिक्सन ( 1975 ), p.166 & 168 ).
In contrast to अधिक परंपरागत musical बनावट, sound mass composition `` minimizes the महत्व of individual pitches in वरीयता लिये बनावट, timbre, और डायनामिक्स as primary shapers of भाव and impact. ''
Developed from the modernist टोन क्लस्टर and spread to orchestral writing by the लेट 1950s and 1960s, sound-mass `` obscures the boundary between sound और रव `` ( Edwards 2001, pp. 326–27 ).
तकनीकों जिससे may बनाएँ or be प्रयुक्त साथ sound द्रव्यमान include विस्तारित तकनीकों such as मूक पीतल or strings, flutter tonguing, चौड़ी vibrato, extreme ranges, और glissandos.
composers और works शामिल बारबरा kolb, pauline Oliveros ' Sound Patterns for कोरस ( 1961 ), Norma beecroft 's From Dreams of पीतल for कोरस ( 1963–1964 ), और नैंसी Van de Vate.
beecroft `` टुकड़ा व्यक्तिगत pitches in favor of a सामूहिक timbre through the उपयोग of गायन and इंस्ट्रूमेंटल क्लस्टर, choral speech, narrator, और a wash of sounds from an electronic tape. ''
( ibid )
A very जल्दी example is the खोलने of jean-féry विद्रोही 's बैले Les elémens ( 1737–38 ), जहाँ अराजकता is represented by a धीरे cumulating orchestral क्लस्टर of सब सात टीप of the D नाबालिग स्केल ( Henck 2004, pp. 52–54 ).
A later उदाहरण is the तीसरा movement of रुथ Crawford seeger 's स्ट्रिंग quartet 1931 ( Nonesuch h-71280 ) जबकि अधिक recently phill niblock 's अनेक ड्रोन आधारित म्यूज़िक serves as an उदाहरण.
the उपयोग of `` मदारी approaching timbres '' begins साथ debussy और Edgard Varèse प्रायः carefully scored individual instrumental parts so कि वे would फ्यूज into एक ensemble timbre or ध्वनि द्रव्यमान ( एरिक्सन 1975, pp. 18 and 21 ).
Other examples include यूरोपीय `` textural '' रचनाएं of the fifties and sixties ऐसे as krzysztof Penderecki 's Threnody to the पीड़ितों of Hiroshima ( 1959 ) and György ligeti 's works featuring micropolyphony in works जैसे atmosphères ( 1961 ) और उसके Requiem ( 1963-65 ).
Other composers with works using इस technique include Henryk górecki, karel Husa, Witold Lutosławski, kazimierz Serocki, और स्टीवन Stucky.
Sound mass तकनीकों भी appear in the म्यूज़िक of जार्ज Crumb ( Anon. n.d. ).
विद्यार्थी attending a लेक्चर on रैखिक बीजगणित at the Helsinki विश्वविद्यालयों of Technology
Pupils in ग्रामीण Sudan, 2002
a छात्र is a learner, or someone who attends an शैक्षणिक institution.
in some राष्ट्र, the अंग्रेज़ी पद ( or its cognate in another भाषा ) is सुरक्षित लिये those जो attend university, जबकि a schoolchild अंतर्गत the आयु of अठारह is called a pupil in English ( or an equivalent in अन्य languages ), हालांकि in the United राज्य a person नामांकित in ग्रेड K–12 is often called a छात्र.
In इसके widest उपयोग, छात्र is used for anyone who is learning.
ऑस्ट्रेलिया is a महाद्वीप comprising मेनलैंड Australia, तस्मानिया, नई Guinea, Seram, संभवतः timor, और neighbouring islands.
the महाद्वीप is sometimes ज्ञात in तकनीकी contexts by the names sahul, Australinea or Meganesia, to फर्क it इससे the Australian मेनलैंड.
It is the smallest of the सात परंपरागत महाद्वीपों in the अंग्रेज़ी धारणा.
New जीलैंड is not भाग of the continent of ऑस्ट्रेलिया, लकिन of the पृथक, submerged महाद्वीप of zealandia.
zealandia and Australia are दोनो part of the wider regions ज्ञात as Australasia और महासागरीय.
The महाद्वीप of Australia lies on a continental शेल्फ overlain by उथले समंदर which divide it into several landmasses — the Arafura Sea and Torres जलसन्धि between mainland ऑस्ट्रेलिया and नई Guinea, और बास Strait between मेनलैंड Australia और तस्मानिया.
When समुद्र levels यहूद निम्नतर during the Pleistocene ice आयु, including the last glacial अधिकतम about 18,000 bc, वे यहूद connected by शुष्क जमीन.
दौरान the पास्ट टेन thousand years, rising समुद्र स्तर overflowed the lowlands and अलग the continent into आज 's low-lying arid to semi-arid mainland and the two mountainous islands of नई गिनी और Tasmania.
geologically, a continent extends to the किनारे of इसके continental shelf, so the now-separate आइलैंड्स हैं considered part of the continent.
Due to the स्प्रेड of पशु, fungi और plants आरपार the सिंगल pleistocene landmass the पृथक lands have a सम्बन्धित biota.
Central पार्क is nearly twice as बिग as the world 's second-smallest देश, मोनाको.
historically its reservoirs were important components of the city 's जल supply.
पर्यावरणीय मुद्दे in New York City हैं affected by the city 's आकार, घनत्व, abundant पब्लिक परिवहन अवसंरचना, और location at the mouth of the Hudson नदी.
New York 's population density has पर्यावरणीय फायदे और ठग.
it facilitates the उच्चतम mass पारगमन use in the United States, लकिन भी concentrates pollution.
गैसोलीन consumption in the city is at the रेट the नेशनल औसत थी in the 1920s, और greenhouse gas emissions हैं a भिन्न of the नेशनल average, at 7.1 मीट्रिक टन प्रति व्यक्ति per year, below सैन फ्रांसिस्को, at 11.2 मीट्रिक टन, और the नेशनल औसत, at 24.5 मीट्रिक टन.
नई York City खाते लिये तभी 1 % of संयुक्त राज्य ग्रीनहाउस गैस emissions while आवास 2.7 % of इसके जनसांख्यिकी.
In सितंबर 2012, नई यॉर्क थी named the # 1 `` America 's Dirtiest नगर, '' by a Travel+Leisure readership सर्वेक्षण कि रेटेड the environmental विशेषता of 35 prominent cities in the United राज्य.
अटलांटा (, stressed, locally ) is the पूंजी of and the सबसे populous city in the U.S. राज्य of जॉर्जिया, with an अनुमानित 2011 जनसांख्यिकी of 432,427.
अटलांटा is the सांस्कृतिक और आर्थिक center of the अटलांटा महानगर क्षेत्रफल, घर to 5,457,831 लोगों and the ninth largest महानगर area in the United राज्य.
अटलांटा is the काउंटी सीट of Fulton काउंटी, और a small portion of the नगर extends eastward into DeKalb County.
Atlanta थी established in 1837 at the चौराहे of two railroad लाइनों, और the नगर rose इससे the राख of the सिविल War to become a national बीच of commerce.
In the decades following the सिविल अधिकारों Movement, दौरान जिससे the city अर्जित a प्रतिष्ठा as `` too busy to नफ़रत '' for the प्रगतिशील views of इसके नागरिकों और leaders, Atlanta attained अंतरराष्ट्रीय prominence.
अटलांटा is the primary परिवहन हब of the southeastern संयुक्त राज्य, via राजमार्ग, रेलरोड, and एयर, साथ Hartsfield–Jackson अटलांटा International Airport होने the संसार 's busiest विमानक्षेत्र चूंकि 1998.
अटलांटा is considered an `` alpha ( - ) संसार नगर, '' और, साथ a gross domestic उत्पाद of us $ 270 अरब, Atlanta’s economy ranks 15th among world शहरों और छठे in the nation.
हालांकि atlanta’s economy is considered विविध, dominant सेक्टर include लोजिस्टिक्स, professional और business सेवाएं, media परिचालन, सरकारी प्रशासन, and higher education.
topographically, अटलांटा is चिह्नित by रोलिंग पहाड़ियाँ और घना पेड़ coverage.
पुनरोद्धार of अटलांटा 's पड़ोस, initially spurred by the 1996 ओलंपिक, has intensified in the 21st सदी, altering the नगर 's जनसांख्यिकी, राजनीती, और culture.
a 1947 प्रचार comic किताब published by the catechetical Guild शैक्षणिक समाज raising the specter of a कम्युनिस्ट कब्ज़ा
mccarthyism is the अभ्यास of making आरोपों of disloyalty, subversion, or देशद्रोह बगैर उचित लिहाज़ लिये evidence.
it भी अर्थात् `` the अभ्यास of बनाना unfair दोषारोपण or using अन्यायपूर्ण investigative techniques, विशेषकर in order to सीमित dissent or राजनैतिक आलोचना. ''
the पद रै इसके origins in the काल in the United States ज्ञात as the दूसरी Red scare, lasting roughly इससे 1950 to 1956 and characterized by heightened fears of कम्युनिस्ट influence on अमरीकी संस्थानों and espionage by Soviet agents.
originally coined to criticize the anti-communist pursuits of रिपब्लिकन U.S. सीनेटर Joseph मैकार्थी of विस्कॉन्सिन, `` mccarthyism '' जल्द took on a broader अर्थ, describing the excesses of समान प्रयत्न.
the पद is भी अभी used more generally to describe reckless, unsubstantiated आरोपों, as well as demagogic हमले on the अक्षर or patriotism of राजनैतिक adversaries.
During the McCarthy era, हज़ारों of अमेरिकी यहूद अभियुक्त of being साम्यवादियों or कम्युनिस्ट sympathizers और became the subject of आक्रामक investigations और questioning पहले government or private-industry panels, समितियों and एजेंसियों.
the प्राथमिक लक्ष्य of ऐसे suspicions यहूद सरकारी employees, those in the entertainment उद्योग, शिक्षक और संघ कार्यकर्ताओं.
Suspicions यहूद often given credence despite inconclusive or questionable प्रमाण, और the स्तर of threat posed by a person 's रियल or supposed वामपंथी एसोसिएशन or मान्यताओं was often greatly अतिरंजित.
Many लोगों suffered loss of employment and/or विनाश of उनके careers ; some भी suffered कारावास.
Most of ये punishments came परिचय through विचारण verdicts बाद overturned, laws कि होता be declared unconstitutional, dismissals लिये कारण later declared illegal or actionable, or extra-legal procedures कि होता आइये into सामान्य disrepute.
the सबसे प्रसिद्ध उदाहरण of mccarthyism शामिल the भाषणों, investigations, and hearings of Senator मैकार्थी himself ; the Hollywood blacklist, संबद्ध साथ hearings conducted by the हाउस Un-American Activities कमेटी ( huac ) ; और the विभिन्न anti-communist क्रियाएँ of the Federal ब्यूरो of Investigation ( एफबीआई ) अंतर्गत Director J. Edgar हूवर.
mccarthyism थी a widespread social और सांस्कृतिक घटना that प्रभावित सब levels of society and was the source of a great deal of बहस और conflict in the संयुक्त राज्य.
नेपोलियन is a fictional character और the main विपक्षी in George Orwell 's Animal Farm.
जबकि he is at first a आम फार्म pig, he gets rid of स्नोबॉल, another सुअर which shares the शक्ति.
He तब takes लाभ of the animals ' uprising विरूद्ध their masters to eventually become the tyrannical `` President of एनिमल Farm, '' which he turns into a तानाशाही.
वरुण लोगो
the NEPTUNE Canada प्रोजेक्ट is the world’s पहला regional-scale भाटे समंदर observatory कि plugs सीधे into the अंतरजाल.
चूंकि December 2009, it रै अनुमत people to `` surf '' the seafloor जबकि समंदर वैज्ञानिकों चलाएं deep-water experiments इससे लैब्स और universities around the संसार.
साथ with its सिस्टर प्रोजेक्ट, शुक्र, NEPTUNE offers a unique approach to समंदर science.
Traditionally, ocean वैज्ञानिकों have relied on infrequent ship क्रूज़ or space-based satellites to carry आउट their research, जबकि the वरुण project uses a remotely संचालित crawler.
the Coronet थी a full-size car from चकमा in the 1950s, initially the प्रभाग 's उच्चतम trim लकीर but, starting in 1955, the lowest trim लकीर.
In the 1960s, the नाम was transferred to चकमा 's mid-size प्रविष्टि.
arm9 is an भुजा architecture 32-bit RISC cpu family.
Commonwealth is a traditional अंग्रेज़ी पद for a राजनैतिक जातियाँ संस्थापित for the common शुभ.
historically, it रै sometimes been synonymous साथ `` republic ``.
More recently it रै been प्रयुक्त लिये fraternal associations of some sovereign राष्ट्र.
सबसे notably, the राष्ट्रमंडल of Nations, an संघ primarily of पूर्व सदस्यों of the अंग्रेजों Empire, is प्रायः referred to as simply `` the राष्ट्रमंडल ''.
the सितंबर 11 attacks ( भी referred to as September 11, सितंबर 11th, or 9/11 ) यहूद a series of चार coordinated terrorist attacks शुभारम्भ by the इस्लामी आतंकवादी समूह al-qaeda upon the संयुक्त राज्य in नई यॉर्क नगर and the Washington, d.C. क्षेत्रफल on सितंबर 11, 2001.
Four यात्री airliners were hijacked by 19 al-qaeda terrorists so वे could be flown into buildings in आत्महत्या हमले.
Two of those planes, अमरीकी Airlines उड़ान 11 and संयुक्त Airlines उड़ान 175, यहूद crashed into the North and दक्षिण मीनारें, क्रमशः, of the संसार व्यापार Center जटिल in नई यॉर्क City.
Within दो hours, both मीनारें collapsed साथ मलबा और the resulting fires causing आंशिक or पूरा collapse of all other इमारतें in the wtc complex, as well as प्रमुख क्षति to ten अन्य विशाल surrounding structures.
A तीसरा प्लेन, American एयरलाइंस Flight 77, थी crashed into the प्रस्तुतीकरण ( the मुख्यालय of the संयुक्त राज्य Department of Defense ), leading to a आंशिक पतन in इसके western पक्ष.
The चौथी प्लेन, संयुक्त Airlines Flight 93, was targeted at the संयुक्त States Capitol in वॉशिंगटन, D.C., लकिन क्रैश into a फ़ील्ड निकट shanksville, Pennsylvania, बाद its passengers tried to overcome the hijackers.
in कुल, almost 3,000 people died in the हमले, including the 227 नागरिकों और 19 hijackers सवार the four planes.
suspicion जल्दी गिरी on al-qaeda.
Although the group 's नेता, ओसामा bin Laden, initially denied कोई भागीदारी, in 2004 he claimed जिम्मेदारी for the attacks.
Al-Qaeda और bin लादेन cited u.S. support of Israel, the उपस्थिति of u.S. troops in Saudi अरब, और प्रतिबंधों against इराकी as motives लिये the हमले.
the United राज्य responded to the हमले by launching the War on आतंक and आक्रमणकारी Afghanistan to depose the तालिबान, which had harbored al-Qaeda.
अनेक countries strengthened उनके anti-terrorism legislation and expanded विधि enforcement powers.
having evaded capture for years, बिन लादेन थी located and मारे by u.S. forces in may 2011.
the विनाश of the जुड़वा Towers और other properties caused गंभीर क्षति to the अर्थव्यवस्था of Lower मैनहटन and had a significant प्रभाव on global बाज़ार.
Cleanup of the World Trade Center साईट was completed in May 2002, and the प्रस्तुतीकरण थी repaired भीतर a साल.
numerous memorials have महरूम constructed, including the National सितंबर 11 Memorial & Museum in New यॉर्क, the प्रस्तुतीकरण मेमोरियल, and the उड़ान 93 National Memorial in पेन्सिलवेनिया.
बाद a lengthy delay, the एक World Trade बीच is अपेक्षित to be समाप्त at मैदान शून्य in नई यॉर्क नगर in 2013.
Crater Lake नेशनल Park is a United States नेशनल पार्क स्तिथ in दक्षिणी Oregon.
Established in 1902, Crater झील National पार्क is the fifth oldest नेशनल पार्क in the United States and the only एक in the राज्य of ऑरेगॉन.
The पार्क encompasses the caldera of Crater झील, a remnant of a नष्ट volcano, Mount mazama, and the surrounding पहाड़ियाँ और forests.
the झील is गहन at its deepest पाइंट, which makes it the deepest झील in the United राज्य, the second deepest in उत्तर America and the ninth deepest in the world.
Crater झील is often referred to as the seventh deepest lake in the संसार, but this पूर्व listing excludes the लगभग depth of subglacial झील वोस्तोक in अंटार्कटिक, जिससे resides अंतर्गत nearly of बर्फ, और the हाल रपट of a अधिकतम depth for झील o'higgins /San मार्टिन, स्तिथ on the किनारा of चिली और Argentina.
However, जब comparing its औसत गहराई of to the average depth of अन्य गहन lakes, crater झील becomes the deepest in the पश्चिमी Hemisphere और the third deepest in the संसार.
the प्रभावशाली औसत गहराई of इस volcanic झील is due to the nearly सममित गहन caldera formed 7,700 years पहले during the हिंसक climactic eruptions and subsequent पतन of माउंट mazama and the अपेक्षाकृत नम जलवायु that is ठेठ of the crest of the cascade दायरा.
the caldera rim सीमाएँ in उन्नयन इससे.
the संयुक्त States geological Survey benchmarked elevation of the झील सतह itself is.
This नेशनल पार्क encompasses.
crater झील has no स्ट्रीम flowing into or आउट of it.
सब जल कि enters the lake is eventually lost from evaporation or subsurface seepage.
the lake 's water commonly रै a striking blue वर्ण, and the झील is re-filled entirely from सीधा वर्षण in the form of snow and rain.
The Supreme अदालत of the United राज्य is the उच्चतम अदालत in the संयुक्त राज्य.
It has परम ( और largely विवेकाधीन ) appellate jurisdiction over all federal न्यायालयों और over state court मामले involving मुद्दे of संघीय विधि, और असली क्षेत्राधिकार over a छोटी दायरा of cases.
The Court, which meets in the संयुक्त राज्य परम् Court भवन in Washington, D.C., consists of a मुख्य इंसाफ और आठ associate justices जो हैं मनोनीत by the अध्यक्ष and confirmed by the संयुक्त राज्य Senate.
एकबार नियुक्त, justices have जीवन कार्यकाल जबतक वे इस्तीफा, रिटायर, or हैं removed बाद महाभियोग.
conroe is the सीट of Montgomery County और जलप्रपात within the महानगर area.
It is स्तिथ परिचय north of Houston.
As of July 2011, the city जनसांख्यिकी थी 58,973, up इससे 36,811 in 2000.
the किताब of Mormon is a पवित्र text of the Latter दिन Saint गति, जिससे adherents मानना contains writings of ancient नबियों who जिया on the American महाद्वीप from approximately 2200 BC to ad 421.
It थी पहला published in कूच 1830 by जोसेफ स्मिथ as the Book of mormon : An खाता लिखा by the हाथ of mormon upon प्लेटों लिया from the प्लेटों of Nephi.
According to Smith 's खाता, and भी according to the किताब 's narrative, the Book of mormon was originally लिखा in वरना अनजान characters referred to as `` reformed Egyptian `` engraved on सुनहरी प्लेटों.
Smith claimed कि the last नबी to contribute to the किताब, a man नामित moroni, दफ्न it in a हिल in present-day New York और तब returned to earth in 1827 as an angel, revealing the स्थान of the किताब to Smith और instructing him to अनुवाद and disseminate it as evidence of the restoration of मसीह 's सच्चा गिरिजाघर in the latter दिनों.
the किताब of mormon has a number of original and distinctive doctrinal discussions on subjects ऐसे as the fall of Adam और संध्या, the nature of the प्रायश्चित, eschatology, redemption from physical and spiritual मौत, and the संगठन of the latter-day गिरिजाघर.
The pivotal event of the किताब is an appearance of Jesus Christ to the americas shortly after उसके क़यामत.
the Book of Mormon is the earliest of the अद्वितीय writings of the Latter दिन Saint movement, the denominations of which typically लिहाज़ the टेक्स्ट not only as scripture लकिन भी as a historical record of परमेश्वर 's dealings साथ the प्राचीन निवासियों of the americas.
The किताब of Mormon is divided into छोटी किताबे, titled after the individuals नामित as प्राथमिक लेखक और, in most संस्करण, divided into अध्याय और आयतें.
It is लिखा in अंग्रेज़ी, बहुत समान to the Early आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी linguistic style of the किंग जेम्स संस्करण of the Bible, और रै चूंकि महरूम fully or partially अनूदित into 108 भाषाएं.
an आयोजिक rank ( भी known as an आयोजिक ग्रेड or आयोजिक रेट ) is, in most militaries, any rank below that of a commissioned अधिकारी or वारंट अधिकारी.
the पद can भी be inclusive of non-commissioned officers.
in सबसे cases, आयोजिक सेवा personnel perform कार्य विशिष्ट to उनके अपना occupational specialty, as opposed to the more generalized command जिम्मेदारियों of commissioned अधिकारियों.
`` कया a अद्भुत World '' is a song लिखा by Bob thiele ( as `` George Douglas '' ) and जार्ज दाउद Weiss.
it थी पहला अंकित by Louis आर्मस्ट्रांग और released as a सिंगल in 1967.
thiele और Weiss यहूद both prominent in the म्यूज़िक world ( thiele as a निर्माता और वेइस as a composer/performer ).
आर्मस्ट्रांग 's recording was inducted in the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1999.
the प्रकाशन लिये this song is नियंत्रित by Memory Lane म्यूज़िक Group, Carlin म्यूज़िक corp., और कीड़ा म्यूज़िक, Inc.
1908 पोस्टर विज्ञापन Gaumont 's ध्वनि films.
the chronomégaphone, designed लिये विशाल हॉल, employed संपीडित एयर to amplify the अंकित ध्वनि.
a ध्वनि film is a गति चित्र with synchronized ध्वनि, or sound technologically coupled to चित्र, as opposed to a silent फिल्मी.
the first known public exhibition of प्रक्षिप्त ध्वनि films took प्लेस in पेरिस in 1900, but decades होता pass before sound motion तस्वीरें were made commercially व्यावहारिक.
Reliable तुल्यकालन was difficult to achieve साथ the जल्दी sound-on-disc प्रणालियों, and प्रवर्धन और रिकॉर्डिंग विशेषता were also inadequate.
Innovations in sound-on-film led to the पहला commercial screening of short गति तस्वीरें using the technology, which took प्लेस in 1923.
the प्राथमिक कदम in the commercialization of ध्वनि सिनेमा यहूद लिया in the mid- to लेट 1920s.
At पहला, the ध्वनि films incorporating synchronized dialogue—known as `` talking pictures '', or `` टॉकीज़ '' —were exclusively shorts ; the earliest feature-length movies with recorded sound शामिल only म्यूज़िक और प्रभाव.
the पहला feature फिल्मी originally प्रस्तुत as a talkie थी the जैज़ सिंगर, released in October 1927.
A major hit, it थी बना with vitaphone, the अग्रणी ब्रांड of sound-on-disc प्रौद्योगिकी.
sound-on-film, however, would soon become the मानक for talking pictures.
by the जल्दी 1930s, the talkies यहूद a वैश्विक घटना.
in the संयुक्त States, वे helped सुरक्षित हॉलीवुड 's स्थिति as एक of the world 's सबसे powerful cultural/commercial systems ( देखिए Cinema of the United राज्य ).
in यूरोपीय ( और, to a lesser उपाधि, elsewhere ) the new development was treated साथ suspicion by many filmmakers और critics, जो worried कि a फ़ोकस on संवाद would subvert the unique aesthetic virtues of soundless सिनेमा.
in जापानी, जहाँ the लोकप्रिय फिल्मी tradition integrated silent फिल्म and live गायन performance, talking pictures यहूद slow to take रूट.
In इण्डिया, ध्वनि थी the transformative तत्व कि led to the रैपिड expansion of the nation 's फिल्मी industry—the सबसे उत्पादक ऐसे industry in the संसार चूंकि the जल्दी 1960s.
अफ़्रीकी लोगों हैं natives or inhabitants of अफ़्रीकी और people of अफ़्रीकी descent.
The ऑस्ट्रेलियाई रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ म्यूज़िक Awards ( commonly ज्ञात as ARIA Music Awards or ARIA पुरस्कार ) is an सालाना series of awards nights celebrating the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई म्यूज़िक industry, put on by the Australian रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ ( ARIA ).
The event has महरूम held annually चूंकि 1987 and encompasses the general genre-specific and लोकप्रिय पुरस्कार ( ये हैं कया is प्रायः being referred to as `` the aria पुरस्कार '' ) as खूब as Fine कला पुरस्कार and कारीगर Awards ( held separately from 2004 ), आजीवन Achievement पुरस्कार और aria Hall of Fame – आयोजित separately from 2005 to 2010 but लौटे to the सामान्य ceremony in 2011.
लिये 2010, aria introduced public voted पुरस्कार लिये the पहला time.
Winning, or भी being मनोनीत लिये, an ARIA पुरस्कार परिणाम in a lot of media ध्यान on an artist, और usually increases recording बिक्री several-fold – in 2005, लिये example, after Ben ली जीती तीन awards, उसके एल्बम जाग is the नई नींद jumped इससे no. 31 to no. 5 in the aria चार्ट, its उच्चतम स्थिति.
For-profit education ( भी known as the education services उद्योग or मालिकाना education ) refers to शैक्षणिक संस्थानों operated by private, profit -seeking व्यवसायों.
There हैं तीन types of for-profit schools.
One प्रकार is known as an शैक्षणिक management organization ( भावनाएं ), और these are primary and द्वितीयक शैक्षणिक institutions.
EMOs कार्य with स्कूल districts or चार्टर schools, using पब्लिक निधि to वित्त परिचालन.
the majority of for-profit schools in the K–12 सेक्टर in America function as EMOs, और have grown in क्रमांक in the mid-2000s.
the अन्य प्रमुख श्रेणी of for-profit schools are post-secondary संस्थानों which operate as व्यवसायों, receiving fees इससे प्रत्येक student they enroll.
A तीसरा type of for-profit स्कूलों, जिससे is less प्रचलित in the United राज्य, are k–12 स्कूलों जिससे operate as व्यवसायों.
emos फलन differently इससे charter schools निर्मित in अनुक्रम to carry आउट a particular शिक्षण pedagogy ; most charter schools हैं mission-oriented, while emos and other for-profit संस्थानों हैं market-oriented.
जबकि supporters argue that the profit motive encourages दक्षता, इस व्यवस्था has भी drawn विवाद और आलोचना.
Kevin Carey, निदेशक of the शिक्षा policy program of the New अमरीकी Foundation कहा in a 2010 कालम in the वृत्तान्त of Higher शिक्षा कि `` for-profits मौजूद in विशाल part to फिक्स शैक्षणिक market असफलताओं बाएँ by traditional संस्थानों, and they लाभ by serving विद्यार्थी कि पब्लिक and निजी nonprofit संस्थानों too often ignore. ''
He also noted that `` There 's no शक that the worst for-profits are ruthlessly exploiting the commodified कॉलेज उपाधि.
But वे किया n't commodify it in the first प्लेस. ''
amendment xxii in the नेशनल अभिलेख
the Twenty-second amendment of the United States Constitution सेट a पद सीमा लिये चुनाव to the office of President of the संयुक्त राज्य.
कॉंग्रेस passed the amendment on कूच 21, 1947.
it was ratified by the आवश्यक number of राज्य on फ़रवरी 27, 1951.
This is an एपीसोड मार्गदर्शिका for the दुश्मनी श्रेणी bobobo-bo bo-bobo.
This सूची encompasses every episode, beginning साथ the असली japanese-language शीर्षक as वे aired on tv असाही, followed by the शीर्षक प्रयुक्त in the अंग्रेज़ी उतावले version airing in the United राज्य on Cartoon संजाल.
A छोटी सारांश will follow, introducing the episode and referring to some of the ढकोसला, लकिन not giving the पूरा summaries to the episodes.
सब names और some of the सन्दर्भ होगा be the ones used इससे the english-language संस्करण to avoid confusion.
जापानी names may be प्रस्तुत after the dub name in कोष्ठक.
इस article is about the public park in New यॉर्क City.
For अन्य उपयोग, see Central पार्क ( बहुविकल्पी ).
सेंट्रल पार्क is a public पार्क at the बीच of मैनहटन in नई यॉर्क नगर.
the पार्क initially खोली in 1857, on of city-owned जमीन ( it is 843 acres today ).
In 1858, फ्रेडरिक विधि Olmsted और Calvert Vaux जीती a डिज़ाइन competition to improve and expand the पार्क साथ a योजना वे हकदार the Greensward योजना.
निर्माण began the same year, continued दौरान the American Civil War, और थी completed in 1873.
सेंट्रल पार्क is the सबसे visited urban पार्क in the संयुक्त States.
designated a नेशनल ऐतिहासिक लैंडमार्क in 1962, the park is currently managed by the Central पार्क conservancy अंतर्गत contract with the city सरकारी.
the conservancy is a non-profit organization कि contributes 83.5 % of सेंट्रल Park 's $ 37.5 लाख annual बजट, and employs 80.7 % of the park 's मेंटेनेंस स्टाफ.
tracfone बेतार, inc. is a प्रीपेड बेतार service प्रदाता operating in the संयुक्त राज्य सहित प्यूर्टो Rico और the US वर्जिन Islands and is a subsidiary of Mexico 's largest telecommunications प्रदाता, américa móvil.
As a मोबाईल Virtual Network ऑपरेटर ( mvno ), tracfone बेतार holds अनेक agreements साथ the US largest wireless telecommunications companies to utilize their networks to provide सेवा including those of verizon, at & t, Sprint, and t-mobile.
tracfone बेतार offers इसके बेतार उत्पाद अंतर्गत अनेक brands which प्रत्येक also offer distinctive सेवा plans, the brands शामिल TracFone, NET10 Wireless, Straight बात, safelink Wireless, Telcel américa और Simple मोबाईल.
a पकड़ें dredge
Dredging is an खुदाई कार्यकलाप or operation प्रायः carried आउट at तनिक partly underwater, in shallow समंदर or fresh जल क्षेत्रों साथ the purpose of gathering up नीचे sediments और disposing of उन्हें at a अलग location.
इस तकनीक is प्रायः used to रखना waterways navigable.
It is भी प्रयुक्त as a रास्ता to replenish बालू on some public beaches, where sand has महरूम खोया because of coastal अपरदन.
dredging is also used as a तकनीक for फ़िशिंग लिये निश्चित प्रजाति of खाद्य clams और केकड़े, see फ़िशिंग dredge.
A dredger ( or “dredge” as is the general usage in the americas ) is कोई device, यंत्र, or पोत कि is प्रयुक्त to excavate and remove सामग्री इससे the नीचे of a body of water.
For उदाहरण, a scoop संलग्न to the end of a रस्सी or pole by जिससे a man can चित्रण sediments up इससे the bottom of a तालाब is a dredger.
Developing इस विचार further, a motorized crane equipped साथ a खीचें बाल्टी or clamshell ( grabber ) that is used to स्कूप सामग्री इससे the bottom of a देह of water is भी a dredger.
the क्रेन could be स्तिथ on the बैंको, or शायद mounted on a barge.
If the क्रेन is mounted on a barge, the entire पोत is referred to as a dredger.
The process of dredging creates spoils ( excess material ), जिससे हैं carried away इससे the dredged क्षेत्रफल.
dredging can उपज materials for land reclamation or अन्य उद्देश्य ( प्रायः construction-related ), और has भी historically played a significant भूमिका in सुनहरा mining.
Dredging can create disturbance in aquatic ecosystems, प्रायः साथ adverse impacts.
क्लीवलैंड ज्वालामुखी in the aleutian आइलैंड्स of अलास्का photographed इससे the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Space स्टेशन, May 2006.
राख plumes पहुँचे a ऊँचाई of 19 km दौरान the climactic eruption at माउंट Pinatubo, Philippines in 1991.
a volcano is an खोलने, or rupture, in a ग्रह 's सतह or क्रस्ट, जिससे allows hot मैग्मा, volcanic ash और gases to एस्केप from the मैग्मा chamber नीचे the surface.
Volcanoes are generally मिला where tectonic प्लेटों are diverging or converging.
A mid-oceanic ridge, लिये उदाहरण the mid-atlantic लकीरें, रै examples of volcanoes caused by अपसारी tectonic plates pulling अलावा ; the प्रशांत Ring of आग रै examples of ज्वालामुखी caused by convergent tectonic प्लेटों coming together.
by कंट्रास्ट, volcanoes हैं प्रायः नहीं निर्मित जहाँ दो tectonic प्लेटों slide पास्ट एक another.
ज्वालामुखी can also रूप जहाँ there is stretching और thinning of the Earth 's क्रस्ट in the interiors of प्लेटों, e.g., in the ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी दरार, the Wells gray-clearwater volcanic फ़ील्ड और the Rio Grande दरार in North अमेरिका.
इस प्रकार of volcanism falls अंतर्गत the umbrella of `` थाली hypothesis '' volcanism.
Volcanism दूर इससे plate boundaries रै भी been समझाया as mantle plumes.
ये so-called `` हॉटस्पॉट ``, लिये उदाहरण Hawaii, हैं postulated to उठता इससे upwelling diapirs साथ मैग्मा इससे the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km deep in the धरती.
erupting volcanoes can पोज़ अनेक hazards, नहीं तभी in the तात्कालिक vicinity of the eruption.
volcanic ash can be a threat to वायुयान, in particular those साथ jet इंजन where ash particles can be melted by the ऊँची ऑपरेटिंग temperature.
Large eruptions can affect तापमान as राख और droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the सूर्य और कूल the Earth 's निम्नतर माहौल or troposphere ; however, वे also absorb ऊष्मा radiated up इससे the धरती, thereby warming the stratosphere.
Historically, so-called volcanic सर्दियों have caused catastrophic famines.
Benedict Arnold ( जून 14, 1801 ) थी a सामान्य दौरान the अमरीकी क्रांतिकारी युद्ध जो originally fought for the अमरीकी महाद्वीपीय फौज लकिन defected to the अंग्रेजों फौज.
जबकि a general on the अमरीकी side, he obtained कमांड of the फोर्ट at वेस्ट पाइंट, नई यॉर्क, and नियोजित to आत्मसमर्पण it to the अंग्रेजों शक्तियां.
After the plan थी exposed in September 1780, he थी commissioned into the British Army as a ब्रिगेडियर सामान्य.
Born in Connecticut, अर्नाल्ड was a merchant operating जहाजों on the अटलांटिक Ocean when the युद्ध broke आउट in 1775.
After joining the growing army outside Boston, he विशिष्ट खुद through अधिनियमों of प्रज्ञा and bravery.
His actions शामिल the कैप्चर of फोर्ट ticonderoga in 1775, रक्षात्मक and delaying tactics despite खोने the बैटल of Valcour Island on झील Champlain in 1776, the बैटल of ridgefield, कनेक्टिकट ( after जिससे he was promoted to major सामान्य ), operations in relief of the घेरा of फोर्ट stanwix, and कुंजी क्रियाएँ during the pivotal Battles of साराटोगा in 1777, in which he suffered लेग injuries कि ended उसके कॉम्बैट करियर for several सालो.
despite अर्नाल्ड 's सफलताओं, he थी passed over for promotion by the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस while other अधिकारियों claimed क्रेडिट for some of उसके accomplishments.
adversaries in military और political circles brought charges of corruption or other malfeasance, but सबसे प्रायः he थी acquitted in औपचारिक inquiries.
कॉंग्रेस investigated उसके accounts और मिला he थी indebted to Congress after spending much of his अपना धन on the war प्रयत्न.
कुंठित and कड़वा, अर्नाल्ड decided to बदलें पहलू in 1779, और खोली रहस्य negotiations साथ the अंग्रेजों.
In जुलाई 1780, he थी offered, continued to pursue और was awarded कमांड of वेस्ट Point.
Arnold 's योजना to surrender the फोर्ट to the अंग्रेजों थी उजागर जब अमरीकी शक्तियां captured अंग्रेजों Major John André carrying papers कि revealed the प्लाट.
upon सीखना of आंद्रे 's capture, अर्नाल्ड fled bas the Hudson River to the अंग्रेजों sloop-of-war गिद्ध, narrowly avoiding capture by the शक्तियां of George वॉशिंगटन, जो था महरूम alerted to the plot.
अर्नाल्ड प्राप्त a commission as a ब्रिगेडियर सामान्य in the British Army, an सालाना pension of £360, और a lump sum of over £6,000.
He led अंग्रेजों forces on raids in वर्जिनिया, and against नई लंदन और Groton, Connecticut, before the युद्ध effectively ended with the American victory at yorktown.
In the winter of 1782, Arnold moved to लंदन with उसके दूसरी wife, मार्गरेट `` पैगी '' Shippen अर्नाल्ड.
he थी खूब received by King जार्ज III and the tories लकिन frowned upon by the whigs.
in 1787, he लौटे to the merchant कारोबार with उसके sons रिचर्ड and Henry in Saint जॉन, New Brunswick.
He returned to London to settle permanently in 1791, जहाँ he died टेन सालो बाद.
Because of the way he बदला sides, his नाम quickly became a in the संयुक्त States for treason or betrayal.
उसके conflicting legacy is recalled in the ambiguous प्रकृति of some of the memorials कि have महरूम लगाई in his सम्मान.
कर्टिस montague Schilling ( born नवम्बर 14, 1966 ) is a पूर्व American प्रमुख League बेसबॉल right-handed pitcher and Video खेल developer.
he helped सीसे the Philadelphia फ़िलीज़ to the World Series in and जीती World श्रेणी championships in साथ the Arizona Diamondbacks और in और with the Boston Red Sox.
Schilling retired with a करियर postseason record of 11–2.
उसके.846 postseason जीतना प्रतिशत is a major-league रिकार्ड among pitchers साथ at तनिक 10 निर्णय.
After retiring, he संस्थापित ग्रीन Monster खेल which थी renamed 38 Studios.
the company released kingdoms of amalur : हिसाब in फ़रवरी 2012, लकिन बस three महीने बाद, schilling रखी बंद उसके entire स्टाफ amid कठोर वित्तीय troubles that resulted in the कम्पनी लापता payroll the previous week.
Star युद्धों is an American epic space ओपेरा मताधिकार centered on a फिल्मी श्रेणी निर्मित by George लुकास.
the film series रै शाखित a media मताधिकार बाहर the film series पुकारा the विस्तारित ब्रह्मांड including किताबे, टेलीविज़न श्रेणी, computer और video खेल, और comic किताबे.
ये supplements to the फिल्मी trilogies have resulted in significant विकास of the series ' fictional ब्रह्मांड.
ये media kept the मताधिकार active in the interim between the film trilogies.
The franchise portrays a आकाशगंगा कि is वर्णित as दूर, far away in the दूर पास्ट.
it commonly portrays Jedi as a प्रतिनिधित्व of शुभ, in conflict with the Sith, their evil बंटवारा.
Their हथियार of चुनाव, the lightsaber, is commonly पहचाना in लोकप्रिय संस्कृति.
The fictional ब्रह्मांड also contains many themes, विशेषकर प्रभाव of philosophy and religion.
The first film in the श्रेणी थी originally released on May 25, 1977, अंतर्गत the शीर्षक स्टार युद्धों, by 20th सदी फॉक्स, और became a विश्वव्यापी पॉप संस्कृति phenomenon, followed by two सिक्वेल, released at three-year intervals.
सोलह years after the release of the त्रयी 's final film, the पहला in a नई prequel त्रयी of films थी released.
the three प्रीक्वेल films यहूद भी released at three-year intervals, with the फाइनल फिल्मी of the trilogy released on may 19, 2005.
in अक्तूबर 2012, The वॉल्ट डिज़्नी कम्पनी acquired लुकासफ़िल्म लिये $ 4.05 अरब और घोषित कि it होता उपज तीन नई films, साथ the पहला फिल्मी, Star युद्धों एपीसोड VII, नियोजित लिये रिलीज in 2015.
20th Century फॉक्स स्टिल retains the वितरण अधिकारों to the पहला दो Star युद्धों trilogies, owning permanent अधिकारों लिये the असली film Episode iv : a नई आशा, जबकि holding the अधिकारों to Episodes i–iii, v और vi जबतक may 2020.
प्रतिक्रियाएँ to the असली त्रयी यहूद ज़्यादातर positive, साथ the पिछला फिल्मी होने माना the weakest, जबकि the प्रीक्वेल trilogy प्राप्त a more मिश्रित reaction, साथ सबसे of the तारीफ़ होने लिये the final फिल्म, according to most review aggregator वेबसाइटों.
सब छह of the प्रमुख films in the series यहूद also nominated लिये or जीती Academy Awards.
सब of the main films have महरूम box office सफलताओं, साथ the overall box दफ्तर revenue generated by the स्टार Wars films ( सहित the theatrical स्टार युद्धों : the क्लोन युद्धों ) totalling $ 4.49 billion, making it the third-highest-grossing film श्रेणी.
the कामयाबी has भी led to अनेक re-releases in थिएटर लिये the श्रेणी.
plateletpheresis ( अधिक accurately called thrombocytapheresis or thrombapheresis, हालांकि ये names हैं rarely प्रयुक्त ) is the process of collecting thrombocytes, more commonly पुकारा platelets, a component of रक्त शामिल in रक्त clotting.
the term specifically refers to the विधि of collecting the प्लेटलेट्स, जिससे is performed by a यंत्र used in रक्त donation कि separates the platelets and रिटर्न अन्य portions of the रक्त to the दाता.
platelet transfusion can be a life-saving procedure in preventing or treating गंभीर जटिलताओं from bleeding and hemorrhage in मरीजों जो have disorders manifesting as thrombocytopenia ( कम platelet गिनती ) or platelet dysfunction.
इस process may भी be used therapeutically to दावत विकार resulting in extraordinarily high platelet counts ऐसे as अनिवार्य thrombocytosis.
In कंप्यूटर नेटवर्किंग, a port is an application-specific or process-specific software construct सेवारत as a communications endpoint in a कंप्यूटर 's मेजबान ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली.
a port is संबद्ध साथ an ip पता of the मेजबान, as खूब as the प्रकार of protocol used लिये संचार.
The purpose of पोर्ट is to uniquely पहचानो अलग अनुप्रयोग or प्रक्रियाओं कार्यशील on a सिंगल कंप्यूटर और thereby enable उन्हें to share a सिंगल physical कनेक्शन to a packet-switched network जैसे the अंतरजाल.
the प्रोटोकॉल that primarily उपयोग ports are the Transport परत प्रोटोकॉल, such as the Transmission Control प्रोटोकॉल ( TCP ) and the उपयोक्ता datagram प्रोटोकॉल ( यूडीपी ) of the अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल सुइट.
A बंदरगाहों is identified for प्रत्येक पता and प्रोटोकॉल by a 16-bit क्रमांक, commonly known as the port number.
the बंदरगाहों number, added to a कंप्यूटर 's IP पता, completes the destination पता for a संचार session.
कि is, data पैकेट्स हैं routed आरपार the संजाल to a विशिष्ट destination ip address, and तब, upon reaching the destination computer, हैं further routed to the विशिष्ट प्रक्रम बंधी to the गंतव्य बंदरगाहों क्रमांक.
Note that it is the संयोजन of IP address और बंदरगाहों number together that जरूर be globally अद्वितीय.
Thus, different ip addresses or protocols may उपयोग the same बंदरगाहों क्रमांक for संचार ; e.g., on a given host or इंटरफ़ेस UDP and टीसीपी may use the वही बंदरगाहों क्रमांक, or on a मेजबान साथ दो अंतरफलक, दोनो पता may be associated with a बंदरगाहों having the वही क्रमांक.
Of the thousands of enumerated ports, about 250 well-known ports हैं सुरक्षित by convention to identify विशिष्ट सेवा प्रकार on a host.
In the client-server मॉडल of application architecture, पोर्ट हैं used to provide a multiplexing सेवा on प्रत्येक server-side port क्रमांक that संजाल क्लाइंट कनेक्ट to for सेवा दीक्षा, बाद which संचार can be reestablished on other connection-specific बंदरगाहों संख्याएँ.
Area code 479 is the telephone area code सेवारत thirteen काउंटी in उत्तरपश्चिम अरकंसास, सहित the शहरों of फोर्ट Smith, Fayetteville, springdale, Rogers और Bentonville : the second, तीसरा, चौथी, आठवीं और tenth-largest शहरों in the राज्य, क्रमशः.
it थी निर्मित in 2002 in a split from area code 501.
क्षेत्रफल कोड 479 serves Benton, कैरल ( split with area code 870 ), Crawford, Franklin, जॉनसन, लोगन, मैडिसन, polk, पोप, Scott, सेबेस्टियन, Washington and चिल्लाते काउंटी in Arkansas.
arraignment is a औपचारिक reading of a criminal चार्जिंग document in the उपस्थिति of the defendant to inform the प्रतिवादी of the आरोप विरूद्ध उसे or her.
In response to arraignment, the accused is expected to enter a plea.
Acceptable pleas vary among jurisdictions, लकिन वे generally शामिल `` अपराधी '', `` नहीं अपराधी '', and the peremptory pleas ( or pleas in bar ) सेटिंग आउट reasons why a विचारण can नहीं proceed.
Pleas of `` nolo contendere `` ( no प्रतियोगिता ) और the `` alford plea `` हैं allowed in some circumstances.
in England, वेल्स, उत्तरी Ireland और Australia, arraignment is the first of eleven stages in a दण्ड विचारण, और involves the clerk of the court reading out the indictment.
The प्रतिवादी is asked whether he or वो pleads अपराधी or नहीं अपराधी to each चार्ज.
In संघीय courts of the United राज्य, arraignment takes प्लेस in two चरण.
the पहला is called the आरंभिक arraignment और जरूर लो प्लेस भीतर 48 घंटों of an individual 's गिरफ़्तार, 72 घंटों if the individual was गिरफ्तार on the weekend और not able to go before a judge जबतक Monday.
दौरान this arraignment the defendant is सूचित of the स्थगित legal आरोप और is सूचित of उसके or her सही to retain counsel.
The पीठासीन judge भी decides at कया राशि, if any, to set जमानत.
During the दूसरी arraignment, a post-indictment arraignment or pia, the प्रतिवादी is अनुमत to enter a plea.
Geoffrey Chaucer ( ; c. 1343 – 25 October 1400 ), ज्ञात as the पिता of English literature, is widely माना the greatest English poet of the मध्य आयु and थी the पहला poet to have महरूम दफ्न in कवि 's Corner of Westminster ऐबी.
While he हासिल कीर्ति during उसके lifetime as an लेखक, पारस, कीमियागर and astronomer, composing a वैज्ञानिक treatise on the astrolabe for his ten year-old बेटे लुईस, चासर also कायम an क्रियाशील करियर in the सिविल service as a bureaucrat, courtier and राजनयिक.
Among his many works, जिससे include The किताब of the Duchess, the हाउस of कीर्ति, the लेजेंड of Good महिलाओं और troilus और criseyde, he is बेहतरीन known आज लिये The canterbury किस्से.
Chaucer is a निर्णायक फिगर in विकासशील the legitimacy of the देशी, Middle अंग्रेज़ी, at a समय when the प्रबल literary भाषाएं in England were फ्रेंच और लैटिन.
the शिकागो blizzard of 1979 थी a major blizzard कि प्रभावित उत्तरी इलिनोइस और उत्तरपश्चिम Indiana, u.S. on जनवरी 13 – January 14, 1979.
of हिम गिरी on जनवरी 13 अलोन, setting a नई रिकार्ड for हिम in one पंचांग दिन.
by the समाप्त of जनवरी 14, of हिम था fallen.
The ठंडा मौसम और हिमपात throughout the rest of जनवरी और फ़रवरी resulted in frozen ट्रैक्स throughout the Chicago 'L ' system.
commuters भीड़ onto CTA बसें, जल्दी overwhelming क्षमता, resulting in usual bus commutes of 30-45 मिनट्स लेने up to several hours.
to avoid huge snowdrifts in the गलियों, the overcrowded बसें यहूद obliged to take numerous detours, adding additional समय to the commute.
Deployment of plows थी significantly विलम्बित और जब they आखिरकार appeared वे struggled to रखना up with the हिमपात.
much of the हिम remained unremoved throughout the अगला 2 महीने, causing जारी public पारगमन देरी और significant problems with trash संग्रहण.
the नगर 's inadequate response to the blizzard थी blamed primarily on महापौर माइकल bilandic, who था assumed the पोस्ट बाद the 1976 मौत of रिचर्ड J. डाले.
समाचारपत्र आलेख at the समय blasted Bilandic ; जेन Byrne, Bilandic 's प्रमुख political प्रतिद्वंद्वी in the लोकतांत्रिक primary ( जो had previously worked with bilandic in the Daley administration और been fired by bilandic जब the दो could not मिलेंगी साथ ), capitalized on this and went on to शिकस्त Bilandic in the फ़रवरी 27 primary.
the 12-hour क्लॉक is a time सम्मेलन in जिससे the 24 घंटों of the दिन हैं divided into दो अवधि : a.m. ( इससे the लैटिन ante meridiem, meaning `` पहले midday '' ) और p.m. ( पोस्ट meridiem, `` after midday '' ).
Each काल consists of 12 hours गिने : 12 ( एक्टिंग as शून्य ), 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, और 11.
The 12-hour क्लॉक was विकसित over time इससे the mid-second millennium BC to the 16th सदी AD.
Health बिता प्रति capita, in $ US ppp-adjusted, with the US और Canada compared amongst अन्य पहला संसार nations.
Comparison of the health परवाह प्रणालियों in कनाडा और the संयुक्त States हैं प्रायः made by government, पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य और public policy विश्लेषकों.
the two देशों था समान स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रणालियों पहले कनाडा reformed इसके system in the 1960s और 1970s.
the United States खर्च much more धन on स्वास्थ्य care than कनाडा, on both a per-capita आधार and as a percentage of जीडीपी.
in 2006, per-capita spending लिये health परवाह in कनाडा थी us $ 3,678 ; in the u.S., us $ 6,714.
the U.S. spent 15.3 % of जीडीपी on स्वास्थ्य परवाह in that साल ; कनाडा खर्च 10.0 %.
in 2006, 70 % of स्वास्थ्य परवाह बिता in कनाडा थी financed by सरकारी, versus 46 % in the United States.
कुल government spending per capita in the u.S. on स्वास्थ्य care थी 23 % उच्चतर than Canadian सरकारी बिता, and u.S. सरकारी व्यय on स्वास्थ्य परवाह थी बस under 83 % of कुल Canadian बिता ( पब्लिक और निजी ) though ये statistics do n't take into account population differences.
अध्ययन have आइये to अलग conclusions about the result of इस disparity in बिता.
A 2007 review of सब studies comparing health outcomes in कनाडा and the us in a Canadian peer-reviewed चिकित्सा जर्नल मिला that `` स्वास्थ्य outcomes may be श्रेष्ठ in मरीजों cared for in Canada बनाम the संयुक्त राज्य, लकिन differences हैं not सतत. ''
Life प्रत्याशा is longer in कनाडा, and इसके शिशु मृत्यु रेट is निम्नतर than कि of the u.S., but वहीँ is debate about the underlying कल्याणकारी of ये मतभेद.
एक commonly cited तुलना, the 2000 संसार स्वास्थ्य Organization 's दरजा of `` overall स्वास्थ्य सेवा performance '', जिससे प्रयुक्त a `` कम्पोजिट measure of उपलब्धि in the level of स्वास्थ्य, the वितरण of health, the स्तर of responsiveness और निष्पक्षता of वित्तीय contribution '', ranked कनाडा 30th and the US 37th among 191 सदस्य राष्ट्र.
This पढ़ाई रेटेड the us `` responsiveness '', or quality of सेवा लिये individuals receiving treatment, as 1st, compared साथ 7th लिये कनाडा.
जबकि the average life expectancy for canadians was 80.34 सालो compared with 78.6 years for residents of the US, simply comparing the जीवन प्रत्याशा of दो groups साथ अलग जातिगत मेकअप and अलग मोटापा दरों is likely not an प्रभावी way of determining which healthcare system is superior.
The जो 's पढ़ाई methods were criticized by कुछ analyses.
Although वहीँ is a माप of सर्वसम्मति कि life-expectancy और शिशु mortality चिह्नित the सबसे विश्वसनीय तरीके to compare nation-wide स्वास्थ्य परवाह, assuming the जनसांख्यिकी मेकअप is similar, a recent रपट by the Congressional Research सेवा carefully summarizes some recent आंकड़ा और टीप the `` मुश्किल research मुद्दे '' facing अंतरराष्ट्रीय comparisons.
Tarantulas comprise a समूह of often बालदार and बहुत large arachnids belonging to the theraphosidae परिवार of मकड़ियों, of which लगभग 900 species have महरूम पहचाना.
This article तभी describes members of theraphosidae, हालांकि कुछ अन्य सदस्यों of the same suborder हैं commonly referred to as `` tarantulas ''.
Most प्रजाति of tarantulas हैं नहीं dangerous to इंसानो, और some प्रजाति have become popular in the exotic पालतु व्यापार.
The ton is a ईकाई of measure.
It रै a long history and has acquired a क्रमांक of meanings और उपयोग over the सालो.
it is प्रयुक्त principally as a unit of वज़न, और as a ईकाई of आवाज़.
it can also be used as a माप of उर्जा, लिये ट्रक वर्गीकरण, or as a colloquial term.
it is निकला इससे the tun, the पद लागू to a बैरल of the largest आकार.
This could contain a आवाज़ between 210 और 256 gallons ( 800 to 1000 l ), जिससे could weigh around 2,000 पाउंड ( 900 kg ) and occupy some of space.
In the संयुक्त Kingdom the ton is पारिभाषित as ( avoirdupois pounds ).
इससे 1965 the UK embarked upon a कार्यक्रम of metrication और धीरे introduced metric units, सहित the tonne ( metric ton ), a non-si metric unit पारिभाषित as 1000 kg.
The UK weights और उपायों अधिनियम 1985 explicitly excluded इससे use लिये व्यापार many इकाई और शर्तें, including the ton और the पद `` metric ton '' for `` टन ''
in the United राज्य और formerly Canada a ton is defined to be.
जहाँ भ्रम is संभावित, the 2240 lb ton is पुकारा `` long ton `` और the 2000 lb ton `` छोटी ton `` ; the tonne is विशिष्ट by its स्पेलिंग, but प्रायः सुनाया the वही as ton, hence the us पद `` metric ton ''.
in the uk the final `` e '' of `` tonne '' can also be pronounced ( /ˈtʌnɪ/ ), or `` metric ton '' जब it is जरुरी to मेक the भेद.
जहाँ accuracy is required the सही पद must be used, लकिन for many purposes इस is नहीं necessary : the metric और long टन differ by only 1.6 %, और the short ton is भीतर 11 % of both.
the ton is the अधिकतम unit of वज़न referred to in colloquial वाक.
the term `` ton '' is भी प्रयुक्त to refer to a क्रमांक of इकाई of आवाज़, ranging इससे in क्षमता.
It can भी be used as a unit of उर्जा, expressed as an equivalent of कोयले जले, टीएनटी detonated, or in प्रशीतन, बर्फ melted.
In Britain, ton is प्रयुक्त in कठबोली in several contexts to औसत `` 100 ''.
as a cost or a गति, a ton is widely समझा to be £100 or 100 mph.
the स्टेनली कप ( ) is the championship trophy awarded annually to the नेशनल हॉकी लीग ( एनएचएल ) playoff विजेता बाद the conclusion of the स्टेनली Cup फाइनल.
originally commissioned in 1892 as the Dominion Hockey चुनौती कप, the ट्रॉफी is नामित लिये Lord Stanley of preston, then- Governor सामान्य of कनाडा, who awarded it to Canada 's top-ranking amateur ice हॉकी क्लबों, which the entire Stanley परिवार समर्थित, with the sons और बेटियां playing और promoting the खेल.
The पहला कप थी awarded in 1893 to Montreal HC.
In 1915, the दो पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी organizations, the नेशनल Hockey Association ( नह ) and the प्रशांत Coast हॉकी Association ( pcha ), पहुँचे a gentlemen 's अनुबंध in which their संबंधित champions होता फेस प्रत्येक अन्य for the स्टेनली कप.
बाद a series of लीग मर्जर और फोल्ड, the स्टेनली `` प्रस्तुतीकरण कप '' was स्थापित as the de facto championship trophy of the एनएचएल in 1926 and तब the de jure एनएचएल चैंपियनशिप पुरस्कार in 1947.
There हैं actually तीन स्टेनली cups : the असली कटोरी of the `` Dominion हॉकी चुनौती कप '', the authenticated `` प्रस्तुतीकरण कप '', और the `` प्रतिरूप Cup '' at the Hall of Fame.
the एनएचएल रै maintained प्रभावी कंट्रोल over दोनो the trophy itself और its संबद्ध trademarks.
nevertheless, the NHL करता नहीं actually own the trophy, लकिन instead उपयोग it by अनुबंध with the two Trustees of the Cup.
the एनएचएल रै registered trademarks associated साथ the नाम and likeness of the स्टेनली कप, हालांकि the league 's सही to outright अपना trademarks associated with a ट्रॉफी it करता not own रै been disputed by कुछ legal experts.
नापसंद the ट्राफियां awarded by the अन्य तीन प्रमुख पेशेवर खेल लीग of उत्तर अमेरिका, a new Stanley कप is नहीं made each साल ; winners रखना it जबतक a new चैंपियन is crowned.
It is unusual among ट्राफियां, in कि it रै the names of all of the जीतना खिलाड़ी, coaches, management, और क्लबों staff engraved on its chalice.
initially, a new बैंड added प्रत्येक साल caused the ट्रॉफी to grow in size, कमाई the उपनाम `` stovepipe कप ''.
in 1958 the आधुनिक one-piece कप थी designed with a five-band barrel जिससे could contain 13 जीतना टीमों per बैंड.
to avoid the Stanley कप इससे growing, when the नीचे बैंड is पूरा, the oldest बैंड is removed and preserved in the हॉकी Hall of कीर्ति, और a new रिक्त band added to the नीचे.
It has been referred to as the कप, रब स्टेनली 's Cup, the पावन grail, or facetiously ( chiefly by sportswriters ) as रब स्टेनली 's Mug.
The Stanley कप is surrounded by numerous महापुरूष और परंपराओं, the oldest of जिससे is the celebratory पीने of शैम्पेन आउट of the कप by the winning टोली.
The असली bowl थी बना of silver and is 18.5 centimetres ( 7.28 इंच ) in ऊँचाई और 29 सेण्टीमीटर ( 11.42 इंच ) in व्यास.
The current Stanley कप, topped with a नक़ल of the original कटोरी, is बना of a चांदी and निकल मिश्रधातु ; it रै a ऊँचाई of 89.54 सेण्टीमीटर ( 35.25 inches ) and weighs 15.5 गामा ( 34.5 lb / 2 st 61⁄2 lb ).
चूंकि the 1914–15 ऋतु, the कप has महरूम won a संयुक्त 94 टाइम्स by 18 active एनएचएल टीमों और five defunct टीमों.
Prior to कि, the चुनौती कप थी आयोजित by नौ different टीमों.
the मॉन्ट्रियल canadiens have won the Cup a रिकार्ड 24 टाइम्स and हैं currently the last canadian-based team in the एनएचएल to win the cup after जीतना it in 1993.
The स्टेनली कप थी not awarded in 1919 because of a स्पेनी फ्लू महामारी, और in 2005, as a consequence of the एनएचएल lockout.
the अनानास ( Ananas comosus ) is a tropical संयंत्र साथ edible अनेक fruit consisting of coalesced जामुन, and the most economically significant संयंत्र in the bromeliaceae परिवार.
pineapples may be cultivated from a क्राउन कटिंग of the fruit, possibly flowering in 20–24 महीने and fruiting in the following छह महीने.
अनानास does not ripen significantly post-harvest.
pineapples हैं खपत fresh, पकाया, juiced, and preserved, और are found in a चौड़ी array of व्यंजन.
In addition to खपत, in the फिलीपीन the अनानास 's पत्ते हैं प्रयुक्त to produce the वस्त्र fiber piña - employed as a घटक of wall paper और furnishings, amongst अन्य uses.
In computer विज्ञान, an पूर्णांक is a datum of अभिन्न आंकड़ा प्रकार, a आंकड़ा प्रकार जिससे represents some finite उपसमुच्चय of the mathematical integers.
अभिन्न आंकड़ा प्रकार may be of different sizes and may or may not be अनुमत to contain ऋणात्मक values.
Integers हैं commonly represented in a computer as a group of शब्दकोष digits.
The आकार of the समूहीकरण varies so the set of integer sizes उपलब्धियाँ varies between अलग प्रकार of computers.
कंप्यूटर हार्डवेयर nearly सदा provides a रास्ता to represent a प्रोसेसर register or memory address as an पूर्णांक.
the गॉर्डन बांध in तस्मानिया is a विशाल हाइड्रो facility, with an संस्थापित क्षमता of.
hydroelectricity is the पद referring to electricity generated by hydropower ; the production of electrical शक्ति through the उपयोग of the gravitational फ़ोर्स of falling or flowing water.
it is the most widely used रूप of बेदर्दी उर्जा, हिसाब for 16 प्रतिशत of वैश्विक electricity पीढी – 3,427 terawatt-hours of विद्युत उत्पादन in 2010, और is अपेक्षित to increase परिचय 3.1 % each year for the अगला 25 सालो.
hydropower is produced in 150 देशों, साथ the asia-pacific प्रदेश generating 32 percent of वैश्विक hydropower in 2010.
China is the largest hydroelectricity निर्माता, साथ 721 terawatt-hours of उत्पादन in 2010, representing around 17 percent of domestic electricity use.
वहीँ are अभी तीन hydroelectricity पौधे larger than 10 GW : the Three Gorges बांध in चीन, itaipu बांध across the brazil/paraguay border, और Guri Dam in Venezuela.
The लागत of hydroelectricity is relatively कम, बनाना it a प्रतिस्पर्धी सोर्स of बेदर्दी electricity.
The औसत लागत of विद्युत from a hydro संयंत्र larger than 10 megawatts is 3 to 5 u.S. सेंट प्रति kilowatt-hour.
Hydro is भी a लचीली source of electricity चूंकि पौधे can be ramped up and bas very quickly to adapt to बदलना उर्जा मांगे.
However, damming interrupts the flow of rivers and can harm लोकल ecosystems, और भवन विशाल dams और reservoirs प्रायः involves displacing people और वन्यजीव.
एकबार a hydroelectric जटिल is constructed, the प्रोजेक्ट produces no सीधा waste, और रै a considerably lower output स्तर of the greenhouse गैस कार्बन dioxide ( ) than fossil ईंधन powered उर्जा पौधे.
वाइन लड़के at a Greek symposium
the इतिहास of wine spans हज़ारों of सालो and is closely intertwined साथ the history of कृषि, भोजन, सभ्यता और humanity itself.
Archaeological evidence suggests that the earliest known वाइन production occurred in कया is अभी the देश of Georgia around 7000 bce, साथ अन्य notable साइट in वृहद Iran dated 4500 bce और Armenia 4100 BCE, respectively.
The world 's oldest known वाइनरी ( dated to 3000 BCE ) was खोजा in Areni-1 cave in a mountainous क्षेत्रफल of अर्मेनिया.
url_http.
increasingly clear archaeological प्रमाण indicates कि domestication of the grapevine took प्लेस दौरान the जल्दी कांस्य आयु in the Near ईस्ट, Sumer और मिश्र from around the तीसरा मिलेनियम BCE.
प्रमाण of the earliest वाइन उत्पादन in balkans रै महरूम uncovered at archaeological sites in उत्तरी यूनानियों ( मकदूनिया ), दिनाँक to 4500 BC.
ये same sites also contain remnants of the world 's earliest प्रमाण of कुचल अंगूर.
in मिश्र, wine became a भाग of अंकित history, playing an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in प्राचीन ceremonial life.
Traces of जंगली वाइन dating from the दूसरी और पहला सहस्राब्दियों bce have भी महरूम found in China.
मोरक्कन वाइन Kasher label 1930
the यहूदी परंपरा and उपयोग of कोषेर wine is dating back to biblical times.
the long history of the use and production of वाइन throughout प्राचीन इसराईल is समर्थित up by archeological प्रमाण.
Within the यहूदी diaspora समुदायों सब around the globe, the traditional and धार्मिक उपयोग of कोषेर वाइन जारी to इस दिन.
Wine, linked in myth to Dionysus / Bacchus, थी आम in ancient Greece और रोम, और अनेक of आज 's major wine-producing regions of पश्चिमी Europe यहूद स्थापित with फ़ोनीशियाई and, later, Roman plantations.
winemaking प्रौद्योगिकी improved considerably during the समय of the Roman साम्राज्य : अनेक अंगूर किस्में and cultivation techniques यहूद ज्ञात ; the डिज़ाइन of the वाइन दबायें उन्नत ; और barrels यहूद developed लिये storing and शिपिंग वाइन.
rashi, a medieval फ्रेंच rabbi और called the `` father '' of all commentaries कि followed on the talmud और the tanakh, अर्जित his जीना as a vintner.
following the decline of Rome और its industrial-scale वाइन production for निर्यात, the ईसाई गिरिजाघर in मध्यकालीन यूरोपीय भी became a firm समर्थक of wine, जरुरी for celebration of the Catholic द्रव्यमान. Whereas wine थी हराम in मध्यकालीन इस्लामी cultures, इसके उपयोग in ईसाई libation थी widely tolerated.
geber and other मुस्लिम chemists pioneered the आसवन of वाइन for इस्लामी औषधीय और औद्योगिक उद्देश्य ऐसे as परफ्यूम.
वाइन उत्पादन धीरे increased, with खपत burgeoning इससे the 15th सदी onwards.
वाइन उत्पादन बच the विनाशकारी phylloxera जूं of 1887 और आखिरकार spread to numerous regions throughout the संसार.
Districts of West Bengal
The भारतीय राज्य of वेस्ट Bengal borders साथ नेपाल, Bhutan, बांग्लादेश और the भारतीय राज्य of बिहार, झारखण्ड, Odisha, असम और Sikkim.
the हिमालय lies in the उत्तर of the राज्य and the Bay of बंगाल is at the दक्षिण.
In between them, the नदी गंगा बहती eastwards और its प्रमुख distributary, the Hooghly River, बहती south to पहुँचें the Bay of Bengal.
The सिलीगुड़ी Corridor, जिससे connects North-East इण्डिया साथ rest of the इण्डिया, lies in the उत्तर बंगाल प्रदेश of the राज्य.
Geographically, वेस्ट बंगाल is divided into a variety of regions— दार्जिलिंग हिमालयी hill प्रदेश, terai और द्वार प्रदेश, North Bengal मैदान, rarh region, पश्चिमी plateau और high lands, तटीय मैदान, Sunderbans and the Ganges Delta.
in 1947, जब India gained independence, the state of वेस्ट Bengal थी formed साथ 14 districts, as प्रति विभाजन plan of the तब बंगाल प्रांत of British India.
The former princely state Koch बिहार joined as a ज़िला in 1950, and the former फ्रेंच एन्क्लेव Chandannagore joined as part of the हुगली district in 1954.
the States Reorganisation अधिनियम of 1956 led to जोड of पुरुलिया district to the राज्य and to enlargement of West दिनाजपुर district.
Later, larger जिले such as West दिनाजपुर, 24 परगना and मिदनापुर were bifurcated.
वेस्ट बंगाल is अभी विभाजित into nineteen districts अंतर्गत तीन विभाजन.
Districts हैं administered by ज़िला magistrates, और divisions हैं administered by डिवीजनल commissioners.
Kolkata, the पूंजी of the राज्य, constitutes the कोलकाता district.
अन्य जिले हैं further विभाजित into प्रशासनिक units such as subdivisions और blocks, administered by sdo और BDO, क्रमशः.
the पंचायती Raj has a three-tier ढांचा in the state.
The परमाणु ईकाई is पुकारा a ग्राम Panchayat, जिससे is the पंचायत संगठन लिये a collection of गांवों.
the block-level organizations हैं called पंचायत samiti, और the district-level संगठन हैं नामित Zilla parishad.
the caribbean ( or ; ; ; or more commonly antilles ) is a region that consists of the caribbean समुद्र, its आइलैंड्स ( some surrounded by the Caribbean Sea और some bordering both the caribbean समुद्र और the उत्तर अटलांटिक समंदर ), और the surrounding coasts.
The region is southeast of the Gulf of मैक्सिको और the North American mainland, ईस्ट of सेंट्रल America, and उत्तर of दक्षिण अमेरिका.
Situated largely on the caribbean Plate, the प्रदेश comprises more than 700 islands, islets, reefs, and cays.
( See the list. )
ये आइलैंड्स generally form island arcs that delineate the पूर्वी and उत्तरी किनारे of the caribbean Sea.
The caribbean आइलैंड्स, consisting of the वृहद antilles on the उत्तर और the Lesser antilles on the दक्षिण and ईस्ट ( including the leeward antilles ), are part of the somewhat larger West Indies समूहीकरण, जिससे भी शामिल the lucayan Archipelago ( comprising the Bahamas and Turks and Caicos Islands ) उत्तर of the वृहद antilles and caribbean समुद्र.
In a wider भाव, the mainland countries of बेलीज़ and Guyana – historically और culturally part of the अंग्रेजों वेस्ट इंडीज – may be included.
Geopolitically, the caribbean आइलैंड्स are प्रायः regarded as a subregion of उत्तर America and हैं व्यवस्थित into 30 territories including sovereign states, विदेशी विभाग, और dependencies.
इससे जनवरी 3, 1958, to May 31, 1962, there थी a short-lived देश पुकारा the संघ of the वेस्ट इंडीज composed of ten english-speaking caribbean territories, all of जिससे were तब uk dependencies.
the वेस्ट इंडीज क्रिकेट team continues to represent many of those राष्ट्र.
This is a list of the 221 towns and 13 शहरों in the U.S. राज्य of नई हैम्पशायर.
लिये प्रत्येक town/city, the तालिका सूचियाँ the county to जिससे it belongs, its तिथि of incorporation, इसके जनसांख्यिकी according to the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, its रूप of सरकारी, and its प्रिंसिपल गांवों.
Cities हैं indicated in boldface.
शहरों and कस्बों हैं treated identically under state विधि.
शहरों हैं just towns जिनकी रूप of सरकारी was बदला by a खास अधिनियम of the New हैम्पशायर विधानमंडल.
however, कस्बों फिलहाल हैं समर्थ to बदलें their form of government by simple वोटर स्वीकृति of a new नगरपालिका चार्टर, with several of the more populous towns having already done so.
The प्रमुख स्लेव रूट in मध्यकालीन Africa.
इस आलेख discusses systems, history, और प्रभाव of slavery भीतर Africa.
देखिए Arab स्लेव trade, अटलांटिक स्लेव trade, maafa, और गुलामी in समकालीन अफ़्रीकी लिये अन्य discussions.
`` स्लेव transport in अफ़्रीकी ''.
europeans प्रायः किया नहीं डालें the interior regions.
Slavery in अफ़्रीकी रै existed throughout the महाद्वीप लिये अनेक सदियां, and continues in the वर्तमान day.
प्रणालियों of servitude और गुलामी यहूद आम in अनेक parts of the महाद्वीप, as they यहूद in much of the ancient संसार.
In सबसे अफ़्रीकी समाजों where slavery थी प्रचलित, the enslaved लोगों were largely treated as indentured servants और not treated as chattel slaves.
जब the Arab स्लेव व्यापार और अटलांटिक स्लेव व्यापार began, अनेक of the लोकल स्लेव प्रणालियों बदला और began supplying captives लिये slave बाज़ार बाहर of Africa.
गुलामी in ऐतिहासिक अफ़्रीकी थी practiced in many different फ़ॉर्म और कुछ of ये do नहीं clearly अनुरूप the definitions of गुलामी elsewhere in the संसार.
Debt गुलामी, enslavement of युद्ध captives, सैन्य गुलामी, और दण्ड गुलामी यहूद सब practiced in various भाग of अफ़्रीकी.
Although there had been some trans-Saharan व्यापार इससे the interior of sub-saharan अफ़्रीकी to अन्य regions, slavery थी a small भाग of the आर्थिक जीवन of अनेक समाजों in Africa until the introduction of transcontinental स्लेव ट्रेड ( Arab और Atlantic ).
स्लेव practices were again रूपांतरित साथ European colonization of Africa और the औपचारिक abolition of slavery in the early 1900s.
ब्रेट lorenzo Favre ( born October 10, 1969 ) is a former American फ़ुटबॉल quarterback who खर्च the बहुमत of his करियर with the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स of the नेशनल Football लीग ( NFL ).
He थी a 20-year veteran of the एनएफएल, having निभाई क्वार्टरबैक for the Atlanta Falcons ( 1991 ), Green खाड़ी पैकर्स ( 1992 – 2007 ), New यॉर्क jets ( 2008 ) and मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स ( 2009 – 2010 ).
Favre is the only क्वार्टरबैक in एनएफएल history to throw for over 70,000 गज, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, और over 10,000 pass attempts.
favre started at the क्वार्टरबैक position for the University of दक्षिणी Mississippi लिये चार सालो before होने चयनित in the second round of the 1991 NFL ड्राफ्ट by अटलांटा ( 33rd overall ).
he थी traded to Green Bay on February 10, 1992, लिये the 19th चुनें in the 1992 एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट.
favre became the Packers ' starting quarterback in the चौथी खेल of the 1992 ऋतु, stepping in लिये घायल क्वार्टरबैक Don majkowski, and started every game through the 2007 season.
he was traded to the New York Jets and प्रारंभ at quarterback for the 2008 season पहले signing साथ the वाइकिंग्स on August 18, 2009 as उनके starting क्वार्टरबैक.
he बना an एनएफएल record 297 लगातार starts ( 321 including playoffs ).
he is the only खिलाड़ी to जीत the ap सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी तीन consecutive टाइम्स ( 1995–97 ).
he has led teams to eight division championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), पाँच NFC चैंपियनशिप Games ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), और two Super कटोरी दिखावे ( सुपर Bowl XXXI, सुपर कटोरी xxxii ), जीतना एक ( Super कटोरी xxxi ).
he holds many NFL रिकॉर्ड, सहित सबसे करियर touchdown passes, सबसे career गुजर yards, सबसे करियर pass completions, most करियर pass कोशिशें, सबसे career interceptions thrown, सबसे लगातार starts by a खिलाड़ी, सबसे consecutive starts by a quarterback, सबसे career victories as a starting quarterback, सबसे बर्खास्त, और सबसे fumbles.
he is भी referred to by his उपनाम `` The Gunslinger ''.
Salesforce.com Inc. is a global enterprise तन्त्र company headquartered in San फ्रांसिस्को, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
हालांकि best ज्ञात लिये its customer संबंध प्रबन्धन ( crm ) उत्पाद, salesforce has भी विस्तारित into the `` सोशल enterprise एरिना '' through acquisitions.
it is currently क्रमित the most अभिनव company in America by फोर्ब्स पत्रिका, as खूब as number 27 in सौभाग्य magazine 's 100 Best कंपनियाँ to कार्य For in 2012.
as of अप्रैल 2013, the कम्पनी is ranked sixth in providing सेवाएं in विपणन और ग्राहक सेवा स्वचालन.
It is listed on the नई यॉर्क भण्डार Exchange and is a constituent of the s & P 500 index.
seahorse is the title given to 54 प्रजाति of समुद्री मछली in the genus हिप्पोकैम्पस.
`` हिप्पोकैम्पस '' comes इससे the Ancient यूनानी hippos अर्थ `` घोड़ा '' and kampos अर्थ `` sea दानव ''.
धरती is the third planet from the Sun, और the densest and fifth-largest of the आठ ग्रह in the Solar System.
it is also the largest of the सौर प्रणाली 's चार terrestrial planets.
it is sometimes referred to as the संसार or the ब्लू ग्रह.
धरती formed approximately 4.54 अरब years पहले, और life appeared on its surface within इसके पहला अरब years.
धरती 's biosphere तब significantly altered the वायुमंडलीय और अन्य मौलिक physical शर्तें, which enabled the अप्रसार of जीवों as well as the गठन of the ओज़ोन परत, जिससे साथ साथ धरती 's चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड अवरोधित नुकसानदेह सौर radiation, and permitted formerly ocean-confined जीवन to मूव सकुशल to जमीन.
the physical गुण of the Earth, as खूब as इसके geological इतिहास and orbit, have अनुमत life to persist.
estimates on how much longer the planet होगा be समर्थ to continue to support जीवन range इससे, to as long as.
धरती 's lithosphere is विभाजित into several rigid खण्ड, or tectonic प्लेटों, कि migrate across the surface over अवधि of अनेक millions of years.
परिचय 71 % of the सतह is covered by नमक जल महासागर, with the शेष consisting of महाद्वीपों और islands जिससे साथ have अनेक झीलों और अन्य स्त्रोत of जल कि contribute to the जलमंडल.
Earth 's poles are mostly covered साथ ice कि is the ठोस ice of the अंटार्कटिक ice sheet and the sea बर्फ that is the ध्रुवीय ice पैक.
the ग्रह 's interior remains क्रियाशील, with a solid आयरन भीतरी core, a liquid outer core कि generates the magnetic फ़ील्ड, और a मोटा layer of relatively solid mantle.
Earth gravitationally interacts साथ अन्य objects in स्पेस, especially the सूर्य and the चंद्रमा.
During एक orbit around the सूर्य, the Earth घुमाता परिचय its own अक्ष 366.26 टाइम्स, creating 365.26 सौर दिनों, or एक sidereal year.
the धरती 's अक्ष of रोटेशन is tilted 23.4° दूर इससे the लम्बवत of इसके कक्षीय plane, producing मौसमी विसंगतियाँ on the planet 's surface साथ a period of एक तीव्र साल ( 365.24 सौर दिनों ).
The Moon is धरती 's only natural satellite.
It began orbiting the धरती परिचय.
The चंद्रमा 's गुरुत्वाकर्षक बातचीत साथ Earth stimulates समंदर tides, stabilizes the अक्षीय झुकाव, और धीरे slows the ग्रह 's rotation.
the ग्रह is घर to millions of प्रजाति of life, सहित इंसानो.
दोनो the खनिज संसाधन of the ग्रह और the products of the जीवमंडल योगदान संसाधन that हैं प्रयुक्त to support a वैश्विक इंसान population.
These निवासियों हैं grouped into परिचय 200 स्वतंत्र sovereign राज्य, which interact through कूटनीति, travel, trade, and सैन्य कार्रवाई.
इंसान cultures have developed many दृश्य of the ग्रह, सहित its personification as a planetary देवता, इसके आकार as चपटा, its स्थिति as the center of the ब्रह्मांड, और in the modern gaia principle, as a single, self-regulating सजीव in इसके अपना right.
The Magician इससे the waite-smith tarot, जो is चित्रित using the वही टूल्स कि modern wiccans use.
in the neopagan धर्म of Wicca, a range of जादुई टूल्स are प्रयुक्त in अनुष्ठान अभ्यास.
प्रत्येक of these tools रै different uses और associations, और are प्रयुक्त primarily to सीधा जादुई energies.
वे हैं प्रयुक्त at an altar, अंदर a magic वृत्त.
in traditional Gardnerian wicca, the टूल्स are प्रायः divided into निजी टूल्स, जिससे are लिये use by, and owned by, an व्यक्तिगत Wiccan, and आउटटेक tools, used collectively by the coven.
This अभ्यास may derive partly इससे masonic परंपराओं ( such as the use of the वर्गाकार और compasses ), from which Wicca draws कुछ सामग्री, and partly from the rituals of the hermetic Order of the सुनहरी Dawn.
The latter बना much उपयोग of सामग्री इससे मध्यकालीन grimoires ऐसे as the Key of सुलेमान, जिससे has many illustrations of जादुई tools and instructions लिये उनके preparation.
ठेठ eukaryotic कोशिका.
Cellular श्वसन is the set of the metabolic प्रतिक्रियाएँ और प्रक्रियाओं कि लो प्लेस in the कोशिकाएं of जीवों to convert biochemical उर्जा इससे nutrients into एडीनोसिन ट्राइफॉस्फेट ( एटीपी ), and तब रिलीज बर्बाद उत्पाद.
the प्रतिक्रियाएँ शामिल in respiration are catabolic reactions, जिससे ब्रेक विशाल अणुओं into smaller ones, releasing energy in the process as कमजोर so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the उत्पाद.
Respiration is एक of the कुंजी तरीके a कोशिका gains useful energy to ईंधन सेल्यूलर कार्यकलाप.
सेल्यूलर श्वसन is considered an ऊष्माक्षेपी रेडॉक्स reaction.
the overall प्रतिक्रिया is टूटा into अनेक छोटी ones when it occurs in the देह, सबसे of जिससे are रेडॉक्स प्रतिक्रियाएँ themselves.
हालांकि technically, सेल्यूलर श्वसन is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया, it clearly करता नहीं resemble एक when it occurs in a living कोशिका.
इस अंतर is क्युकी it occurs in अनेक separate कदम.
While the overall प्रतिक्रिया is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया, no single reaction कि comprises it is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया.
Nutrients कि हैं commonly used by एनिमल और plant cells in respiration शामिल शुगर, अमीनो acids और वसीय acids, और a आम oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is molecular ऑक्सीजन ( o2 ).
the energy भंडारित in ATP ( its तीसरा फास्फेट समूह is weakly bonded to the बाकी of the अणु and is cheaply broken allowing stronger bonds to form, thereby transferring उर्जा लिये use by the कोशिका ) can तब be प्रयुक्त to ड्राइव प्रक्रियाओं requiring उर्जा, सहित biosynthesis, locomotion or परिवहन of molecules आरपार कोशिका झिल्लियों.
a stored-pressure आग extinguisher made by amerex
a British आग extinguisher साथ id चिह्न, call पाइंट and fire action sign
A fire extinguisher, flame extinguisher, or बस an extinguisher, is an क्रियाशील fire सुरक्षा यंत्र प्रयुक्त to बुझा or कंट्रोल छोटी फ़ायर, often in emergency situations.
it is not intended for use on an out-of-control आग, ऐसे as one जिससे रै reached the छत, endangers the user ( i.e., no एस्केप रूट, smoke, विस्फोट जोखिम, इत्यादि. ), or वरना requires the विशेषज्ञता of a fire department.
Typically, a fire extinguisher consists of a hand-held cylindrical pressure पोत containing an एजेंट जिससे can be discharged to extinguish a fire.
In the United States, fire extinguishers, in सब इमारतें अन्य than houses, are generally जरूरी to be सर्विस and inspected by a आग सुरक्षा service कम्पनी at तनिक annually.
Some jurisdictions require अधिक बारंबार सेवा लिये fire extinguishers.
the servicer places a tag on the extinguisher to indicate the प्रकार of सेवा performed ( annual निरीक्षण, रिचार्ज, नई fire extinguisher ) और जब.
There हैं दो प्रमुख types of आग extinguishers : भंडारित दबाव and cartridge-operated.
in भंडारित दबाव इकाई, the expellant is stored in the same कक्ष as the firefighting agent itself.
Depending on the agent प्रयुक्त, different propellants are used.
साथ शुष्क रासायनिक extinguishers, nitrogen is typically used ; जल and झाग extinguishers typically उपयोग एयर.
भंडारित pressure आग extinguishers are the सबसे आम प्रकार.
cartridge-operated extinguishers contain the expellant gas in a पृथक कार्ट्रिज that is punctured prior to discharge, exposing the propellant to the extinguishing एजेंट.
This प्रकार is not as आम, used primarily in क्षेत्रों ऐसे as industrial facilities, जहाँ they receive higher-than-average use.
वे have the advantage of simple and संकेत recharge, allowing an operator to निर्वहन the extinguisher, रिचार्ज it, और return to the आग in a उचित राशि of समय.
Unlike भंडारित दबाव प्रकार, these extinguishers उपयोग संपीडित carbon dioxide instead of नाइट्रोजन, हालांकि नाइट्रोजन cartridges are used on low तापमान ( -60 rated ) मॉडल.
कार्ट्रिज संचालित extinguishers are available in dry रासायनिक और शुष्क powder types in the U.S. and in water, wetting एजेंट, झाग, dry रासायनिक ( वर्ग एबीसी और B.C. ), और dry चूर्ण ( क्लास d ) प्रकार in the बाकी of the world.
आग extinguishers are further विभाजित into हैंडहेल्ड और cart-mounted, also पुकारा wheeled extinguishers.
Handheld extinguishers तौल from 0.5 to 14 kilograms ( 1 to 30 पाउंड ), और हैं hence, easily पोर्टेबल by हाथ.
cart-mounted इकाई typically तौल 23+ गामा ( 50+ पाउंड ).
ये wheeled मॉडल हैं सबसे commonly मिला at निर्माण sites, airport runways, heliports, as well as docks and marinas.
देशी Americans in the United States are the स्वदेशी peoples in उत्तर America भीतर the boundaries of the present-day महाद्वीपीय United राज्य, अलास्का, और the island राज्य of हवाई.
They हैं रचित of numerous, पृथक देशी अमरीकी जनजातियों and जातीय समूह, अनेक of which survive as बरकरार राजनैतिक communities.
the शर्तें प्रयुक्त to refer to देशी अमेरिकी have महरूम विवादास्पद.
according to a 1995 U.S. Census census_bureau Bureau Census_Bureau set of घर interviews, सबसे of the respondents साथ an expressed वरीयता refer to themselves as अमरीकी इंडियंस ( or बस इंडियंस ), and this पद रै been अपनाया by प्रमुख अखबारों और कुछ अकादमिक समूह ; however, इस पद does not typically शामिल देशी Hawaiians or निश्चित अलास्कन natives, such as aleut, yup'ik, or इनुइट peoples.
चूंकि the समाप्त of the 15th सदी, the migration of europeans to the Americas, और उनके importation of africans as स्लेव, has led to centuries of conflict और adjustment between Old and नई World समाजों.
Europeans निर्मित most of the early लिखा ऐतिहासिक रिकार्ड परिचय देशी अमेरिकी after the colonists ' immigration to the americas.
Many Native Americans जिया as hunter-gatherer समाजों and told उनके histories by मौखिक परंपराओं.
in अनेक groups, महिलाओं carried आउट sophisticated cultivation of numerous किस्में of staple crops : मक्का, सेम और स्क्वैश.
the स्वदेशी cultures were quite अलग from those of the agrarian, proto-industrial, ज़्यादातर ईसाई immigrants इससे western यूरेशिया.
Many Native संस्कृतियों यहूद matrilineal ; the लोगों occupied lands लिये उपयोग of the entire जातियाँ, लिये शिकार or agriculture.
Europeans at that समय had patriarchal संस्कृतियों and had विकसित अवधारणाओं of individual प्रॉपर्टी अधिकारों with आदर to जमीन कि यहूद अत्यधिक अलग.
the मतभेद in संस्कृतियों between the स्थापित Native Americans and immigrant Europeans, as खूब as shifting alliances among different राष्ट्र of प्रत्येक संस्कृति through the सदियां, caused extensive राजनैतिक टेंशन, ethnic हिंसा और सोशल disruption.
The Native अमेरिकी suffered ऊँची fatalities इससे the contact साथ infectious Eurasian diseases, to which they था no acquired प्रतिरक्षण.
महामारी after European सम्पर्क caused the महानतम घाटा of जीवन for स्वदेशी populations.
estimates of the pre-Columbian जनसांख्यिकी of कया आज constitutes the u.S. vary significantly, ranging from 1 लाख to 18 लाख.
After the colonies revolted against Great ब्रिटेन और established the संयुक्त राज्य of America, अध्यक्ष George वॉशिंगटन और Henry नॉक्स conceived of the idea of `` civilizing '' Native Americans in preparation for सम्मिलन as U.S. नागरिकों.
सम्मिलन ( whether voluntary as with the Choctaw, or forced ) became a सतत नीति through अमरीकी administrations.
During the 19th century, the विचारधारा of manifest नियति became integral to the अमरीकी nationalist movement.
विस्तार of european-american populations to the वेस्ट बाद the अमरीकी क्रान्ति resulted in increasing दबाव on देशी अमरीकी lands, warfare between the समूह, and उठती तनाव.
in 1830, the u.S. कॉंग्रेस passed the Indian हटाना अधिनियम, authorizing the government to relocate देशी Americans from उनके homelands within established राज्य to lands west of the मिसिसिपी River, accommodating european-american expansion.
the first यूरोपीय अमेरिकी to एनकाउंटर the पश्चिमी आंतरिक जनजातियों were generally fur traders and trappers.
वहीँ यहूद भी जेसुइट प्रचारकों क्रियाशील in the उत्तरी टियर.
as United राज्य विस्तार reached into the American वेस्ट, settler और खनिक प्रवासियों आए into increasing विरोध with the ग्रेट Basin, ग्रेट Plains, and अन्य Western जनजातियों.
ये were complex nomadic cultures based on horse संस्कृति और seasonal बाइसन hunting.
वे carried आउट दमदार प्रतिरोध to संयुक्त राज्य incursions in the दशकों after the अमरीकी सिविल War, in a श्रेणी of भारतीय युद्धों, जिससे यहूद बारंबार up जबतक the 1890s, लकिन जारी into the 20th सदी.
The transcontinental railroad brought more non-natives into जनजातीय land in the west.
Over समय, the u.S. मजबूर a श्रेणी of treaties and जमीन cessions by the tribes, और स्थापित रिज़र्वेशन for them in many पश्चिमी states.
u.S. एजेंटों encouraged Native Americans to adopt European-style खेती और समान pursuits, but European-American agricultural technology of the time थी inadequate लिये प्रायः शुष्क रिज़र्वेशन lands.
In 1924, देशी Americans who यहूद नहीं already u.S. citizens were granted नागरिकता by Congress.
Contemporary Native Americans have a unique संबंध साथ the संयुक्त States क्युकी वे may be सदस्यों of nations, tribes, or bands with sovereignty and treaty अधिकारों.
सेंट्रल अमेरिका ( ) is the सेंट्रल geographic प्रदेश of the americas.
it is the southernmost, isthmian portion of the उत्तर अमरीकी महाद्वीप, which connects with South अमेरिका on the southeast.
When considered part of the एकीकृत महाद्वीपीय model, it is considered a उपमहाद्वीप.
Central अमेरिका consists of seven देशों : Belize, Costa रिका, el Salvador, ग्वाटेमाला, Honduras, निकारागुआ, and Panama.
सेंट्रल America is भाग of the mesoamerican biodiversity हॉटस्पॉट, जिससे extends इससे उत्तरी Guatemala through सेंट्रल Panama.
It is bordered by Mexico to the north, the caribbean समुद्र to the ईस्ट, the North प्रशांत Ocean to the वेस्ट, और Colombia to the south-east.
Central अमेरिका is an क्षेत्रफल of, or लगभग 0.1 % of the Earth 's surface.
as of 2009, its population थी estimated at 41,739,000.
it रै a घनत्व of 77 लोगों प्रति square kilometer.
scrubs is an American medical comedy-drama टेलीविज़न series निर्मित by विधेयक लॉरेंस कि aired from अक्तूबर 2, 2001 to कूच 17, 2010 on NBC और later एबीसी.
the श्रेणी follows the lives of employees at the fictional Sacred Heart शिक्षण hospital.
The title is a खेल on सर्जिकल scrubs और a term लिये a low-ranking व्यक्ति क्युकी at the शुरूआत of the series, सबसे of the main characters यहूद medical interns.
the श्रेणी सुविधाएँ fast-paced screenplay, slapstick, और surreal vignettes प्रस्तुत ज़्यादातर as the daydreams of the सेंट्रल अक्षर, dr. जॉन `` J.D. ''
डोरियन, who is played by Zach braff.
अभिनेताओं starring alongside Braff in the first eight seasons शामिल Sarah Chalke, Donald Faison, neil Flynn, केन जेनकींस, जॉन C. mcginley and जुडी Reyes.
The श्रेणी रै भी प्रदर्शित अनेक अतिथि appearances by फिल्मी अभिनेताओं, such as Brendan फ्रेज़र, हीथर Graham, और Colin farrell.
in the नवीं ऋतु, अनेक नई डाल सदस्यों were introduced और the दिखाएँ सेटिंग स्थानांतरित इससे a hospital to a medical school.
आउट of the असली cast, तभी braff, faison और mcginley became नियमित डाल सदस्यों, while the अन्य साथ the एक्सेप्शन of Reyes, बना guest दिखावे.
braff appeared in छह episodes of the नवीं ऋतु पहले departing.
केरी bishé, Eliza Coupe, डेव फ्रेंको और माइकल Mosley became series regulars साथ bishé becoming the दिखाएँ 's new narrator.
scrubs premiered on अक्तूबर 2, 2001 on NBC.
The श्रेणी प्राप्त a Peabody Award in 2006.
दौरान the seventh season, NBC announced कि it होता नहीं renew the show.
shortly after the seventh ऋतु finale, ABC घोषित it था picked up the eighth season of the series, which began January 6, 2009.
The नवीं season premiered on दिसम्बर 1, 2009.
on may 14, 2010, एबीसी announced it था officially रद्द Scrubs.
An 1817 Boulton & Watt बीम झोंके engine, प्रयुक्त in netherton at the ironworks of M W grazebrook.
Re-erected on the a38 ( m ) in बर्मिंघम, UK
A steam इंजन is a ऊष्मा इंजन कि performs mechanical work using भाप as its working द्रव.
using boiling जल to उपज mechanical motion goes वापस परिचय 2,000 सालो, but जल्दी डिवाइस यहूद नहीं practical.
Since the लेट 1700s भाप इंजन have become a प्रमुख source of mechanical शक्ति.
The पहला applications यहूद निकालना water इससे mines.
in 1781 जेम्स Watt patented a steam engine कि produced continuous rotative motion.
These 10 hp engines सक्रिय a चौड़ी दायरा of निर्माण machinery to be powered.
the engines could be sited anywhere कि जल और coal or लकडी fuel could be प्राप्त.
by 1883, इंजन कि could provide 10,000 hp था become feasible.
Steam इंजन could भी be लागू to वाहनों ऐसे as traction इंजन और the railway इंजनों which हैं commonly बस पुकारा भाप इंजन outside अमेरिका.
The stationary भाप engine थी a कुंजी घटक of the औद्योगिक Revolution, allowing factories to locate जहाँ water power was अनुपलब्ध.
आज steam turbines generate परिचय 90 % of the electric शक्ति in the संयुक्त राज्य using a किस्में of heat स्त्रोत.
Steam इंजन are बाह्य दहन engines, जहाँ the working द्रव is पृथक from the combustion उत्पाद.
non-combustion ऊष्मा sources ऐसे as solar शक्ति, नाभिकीय power or geothermal energy may be used.
the ideal ऊष्मागतिक साईकिल used to analyze इस process is called the rankine साईकिल.
In the साईकिल, जल is heated into भाप in a बॉयलर जबतक it reaches a ऊँची दबाव.
जब विस्तारित through पिस्टन्स or turbines, mechanical work is done.
the reduced-pressure भाप is तब सघन and pumped वापस into the boiler.
In general उपयोग, the पद steam इंजन can refer to either the integrated भाप पौधे ( including बायलरों इत्यादि. ) such as रेल steam locomotives और portable engines, or may refer to the piston or टर्बाइन machinery alone, as in the beam engine and stationary भाप engine.
Specialized डिवाइस ऐसे as steam hammers और steam pile drivers are dependent on भाप supplied from a पृथक boiler.
A मिल इंजन from stott Park Bobbin मिल, Cumbria, इंग्लैण्ड
a steam locomotive in जर्मनी.this class of इंजन थी built in 1942 – 1950 और operated commercially जबतक 1988.
`` Move Bitch '' ( edited संस्करण titled `` मूव b***h '' or simply `` Move '' ) is the तीसरा आधिकारिक सिंगल from rapper ludacris ' album Word of Mouf.
The single सुविधाएँ Mystikal और I-20.
The single पहुँचे # 10 on the Billboard hot 100 बनाना it Ludacris 's पहला top ten hit on the चार्ट, it भी पहुँचे # 3 on hot रैप Tracks और # 3 on hot R & B/Hip-Hop Singles & ट्रैक्स.
प्यूर्टो rican reggaeton duo maicol & Manuel sampled the सोंग on `` होय me levanté '' on their 2002 रिलीज Yakaleo.
the सोंग is भी featured in episode 2, Series एक of British teen comedy/drama Skins.
the सोंग थी भी प्रयुक्त by World Wrestling Entertainment superstar montel vontavious Porter दौरान उसके short stint in रिंग of Honor.
it थी भी प्रयुक्त for अप्रैल Hunter in विभिन्न स्वतंत्र circuits.
It was featured in the फिल्म ATL अभिनीत t.i., और ' hancock, ' हालांकि in the latter, the साफ संस्करण थी used.
a snippet of the song is played during ट्रैफ़िक रिपोर्ट्स on अनेक radio stations, प्रायः carrying an urban/hip-hop format.
Retired NBA star और अभी ESPN विश्लेषक Jalen Rose is featured in the music video.
the song रै been covered by चट्टान band Start Trouble, on their एल्बम प्रत्येक समाधान रै इसके Problem.
It थी प्रदर्शित on British sitcom The inbetweeners जब the characters Jay और neil took होगा on a 'pussy पैट्रोल ' in Jay 's रेड Nissan Micra.
It was sampled by लड़की बात on the पहला track of उसके album सब Day, `` Oh no ''.
एलिज़ाबेथ II ( एलिज़ाबेथ एलेक्जेंड्रा मरियम ; born 21 अप्रैल 1926 ) is the संवैधानिक monarch of 16 sovereign राज्य, known as the राष्ट्रमंडल realms, and their territories and dependencies, और सिर of the 54-member राष्ट्रमंडल of राष्ट्र.
वो is परम् राज्यपाल of the Church of इंग्लैण्ड और, in कुछ of her realms, carries the शीर्षक of Defender of the आस्था as भाग of her पूरा शीर्षक.
on her accession on 6 फ़रवरी 1952, एलिज़ाबेथ became सिर of the Commonwealth and महारानी regnant of seven independent Commonwealth countries : the United किंगडम, कनाडा, Australia, नई Zealand, दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी, Pakistan और Ceylon.
From 1956 to 1992, the number of उसके realms varied as territories gained स्वतंत्रता और some realms became republics.
at present, in जोड to the first चार aforementioned countries, Elizabeth is Queen of Jamaica, बारबाडोस, the बहामा, हरा, पापुआ नई गिनी, the Solomon Islands, तुवालू, Saint लूसिया, संत Vincent और the grenadines, Belize, अण्टीगुआ और Barbuda and Saint Kitts and Nevis.
उसके शासनकाल of सालो is फिलहाल the second longest for a अंग्रेजों monarch ; तभी Queen Victoria रै reigned longer at over 63 years.
एलिज़ाबेथ was born in London और educated privately at home.
उसके पिता acceded to the सिंहासन as George vi in 1936 on the abdication of उसके brother एडवर्ड viii, इससे जिससे time वो थी the heir presumptive.
She began to undertake पब्लिक कर्तव्य दौरान the दूसरी World युद्ध, in जिससे वो served in the auxiliary territorial Service.
in 1947, वो शादीशुदा प्रिंस फिलिप, ड्यूक of एडिनबर्ग, with जिसको she रै चार children : चार्ल्स, Anne, Andrew, और एडवर्ड.
Her राजतिलक service took प्लेस in 1953 और was the first to be televised.
the Queen 's many ऐतिहासिक विज़िट और बैठक शामिल a राज्य विज़िट to the Republic of Ireland और reciprocal visits to और इससे the पोप.
The Queen has देखी major संवैधानिक changes in उसके realms, such as devolution in the संयुक्त किंगडम and the patriation of the Canadian संविधान.
टाइम्स of निजी significance have included the births और विवाह of उसके children, the births of her grandchildren, the प्रतिष्ठापन of the प्रिंस of वेल्स, और the celebration of माइलस्टोन ऐसे as her Silver, Golden, and डायमंड Jubilees in 1977, 2002, and 2012, respectively.
प्रमुख कार्यक्रम in the महारानी 's शासनकाल have included the Troubles in उत्तरी आयरलैंड, the Falklands युद्ध, युद्धों साथ इराकी और the युद्ध in Afghanistan.
वहीँ have been टाइम्स of personal विषाद लिये her which शामिल the मौत of her father at 56, the हत्या of Prince फिलिप 's uncle, रब माउंटबेटन, the विश्लेषण of उसके children 's विवाह in 1992 ( a year deemed उसके annus horribilis ), the मौत in 1997 of उसके former daughter-in-law, डायना, राजकुमारी of Wales, और the deaths of उसके माँ और सिस्टर in 2002.
the महारानी has occasionally faced कठोर दबायें आलोचना of the royal family और रिपब्लिकन sentiments, but support लिये the monarchy और उसके निजी popularity remain ऊँची.
Christianity is the largest religion listed by australians in the नेशनल जनसांख्यिकी.
in the 2011 जनसांख्यिकी, 61.1 % of Australians यहूद listed as ईसाई.
ऑस्ट्रेलिया रै no official state धर्म और the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई Constitution protects स्वतंत्रता of धर्म.
the उपस्थिति of Christianity in Australia began with the आगमन of the पहला Fleet of British convicts in 1788.
the धर्म grew to खाता for 96.1 % of the नेशनल जनसांख्यिकी at the time of the संघ of Australia in 1901.
the Anglican Church of ऑस्ट्रेलिया ( formerly known as the गिरिजाघर of England in Australia ) remained the largest denomination जबतक 1986, when it थी surpassed by the रोमन कैथोलिक Church in Australia.
post-war बहुसंस्कृतिवाद और a मनाही in धार्मिक observance among कुछ sections of the population have diversified the demographics of धर्म in ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
of the roughly 61 % identifying as ईसाई in 2011, the largest denominations were either रोमन कैथोलिक ( 25 % ) or anglican ( 17 % ), with the तीसरा largest denomination होने the 5 % affiliated with the uniting गिरिजाघर in ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
post-war immigration रै grown the numbers belonging to churches like the Greek Orthodox archdiocese of Australia and वहीँ are large और growing Pentecostal groups, such as सिडनी 's hillsong गिरिजाघर.
the त्यौहार of Easter and क्रिसमस are public holidays in Australia.
around a क्वार्टर of students attend church स्कूलों और ईसाई संगठनों are अग्रणी non-government प्रदाताओं of health और welfare सेवाएं through organisations like कैथोलिक Health Australia, anglicare, UnitingCare ऑस्ट्रेलिया, the Salvation फौज and st विंसेंट de Paul समाज.
Historically significant Australian Christians have शामिल रेव dr जॉन Dunmore लैंग, संत मरियम MacKillop, कैथरीन हेलेन spence, पादरी David unaipon, the Reverend John Flynn और Pastor सर डग Nicholls.
ऊँची profile contemporary ऑस्ट्रेलियाई ईसाइयों शामिल : Tim Costello Baptist minister और वर्तमान सीईओ of संसार दृष्टि Australia, फ़्रैंक ब्रेनन, Jesuit human अधिकारों lawyer, Cardinal George Pell, Catholic archbishop of Sydney, फिलिप aspinall the वर्तमान anglican Primate और Archbishop of ब्रिसबेन, केविन Rudd, पूर्व मजदूर प्रधान मंत्री, and टोनी एबॉट, leader लिये the संघीय Opposition Liberal Party.
चार्टर बनाना कॉलेजिएट स्कूल, जिससे became yale College, October 9, 1701
yale University is a निजी आइवी लीग शोध university located in New हेवन, Connecticut.
संस्थापित in 1701 in the उपनिवेश of कनेक्टिकट, the विश्वविद्यालयों is the third-oldest institution of उच्चतर शिक्षा in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Originally चार्टर्ड as the `` कॉलेजिएट School '', the संस्था traces इसके roots to 17th-century clergymen जो sought to establish a college to train पादरी और राजनैतिक नेताओ for the colony.
In 1718, the College थी renamed `` yale कॉलेज '' to honor a gift इससे Elihu yale, a governor of the अंग्रेजों East India कम्पनी.
in 1861, the ग्रैजुएट स्कूल of कला और Sciences became the पहला U.S. संस्था to award the PhD. yale became a founding सदस्य of the Association of अमरीकी Universities in 1900.
Yale College थी रूपांतरित, शुरूआत in the 1930s, through the स्थापना of residential colleges : 12 now exist and दो अधिक are planned.
Yale employs over 1,100 faculty to सिखा और advise परिचय 5,300 undergraduate and 6,100 graduate और professional विद्यार्थी.
Almost all tenured professors सिखा undergraduate courses, अधिक than 2,000 of which हैं offered annually.
the विश्वविद्यालयों 's एसेट शामिल an endowment valued at $ 19.4 अरब, the second-largest of कोई अकादमिक संस्था in the संसार.
yale 's प्रणाली of अधिक than two दर्जन पुस्तकालयों holds 12.5 लाख आयतन.
49 नोबेल laureates have महरूम संबद्ध with the विश्वविद्यालयों as विद्यार्थी, संकाय, और स्टाफ.
Yale has produced many notable alumni, सहित पाँच u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों, 19 U.S. परम् Court Justices, और अनेक विदेशी heads of state.
At the graduate level, Yale विधि School, Yale स्कूल of आर्ट, और Yale School of Drama are consistently ranked the top programs in उनके फ़ील्ड.
yale Law स्कूल is the most selective विधि school in the संयुक्त States.
yale students compete intercollegiately as the Yale bulldogs in the ncaa Division i आइवी League.
the oldest intercollegiate एथलेटिक इवेंट in the संयुक्त राज्य is the yale-harvard regatta.
artemisia tridentata ( `` big sagebrush '' or `` sagebrush '' ) is an aromatic shrub इससे the परिवार Asteraceae, जिससे grows in arid और semi-arid शर्तें, throughout a दायरा of ठंडा desert, स्तान, और पहाड़ habitats in the Intermountain वेस्ट of North अमेरिका.
The देशी name `` sagebrush '' is also used लिये अनेक सम्बन्धित members of the genus artemisia, ऐसे as California sagebrush ( artemisia californica ).
Big Sagebrush and अन्य artemisia species are the प्रबल plants आरपार विशाल portions of the ग्रेट जलाशय, covering some 422,000 square मील in 11 पश्चिमी u.S. & Canadian राज्य.
it is the state पुष्प of नेवाडा.
sagebrush provides खाना और habitat लिये a किस्में of species, such as sage grouse, pronghorn antelope, gray vireo, pygmy rabbit, और mule हिरण.
बिग sagebrush was used as an हर्बल आयुर्विज्ञान by देशी Americans throughout the intermountain वेस्ट of North america—especially लिये preventing संक्रमण in wounds, stopping आतंरिक bleeding, and treating headaches और colds.
chemically, the active औषधीय constituents शामिल camphor, terpenoids, और tannins.
अनेक प्रमुख खतरे exist to ऋषि ब्रश ecosystems, सहित इंसान settlements, परिवर्तन to agricultural land, पशुधन grazing, invasive संयंत्र species, wildfires, और जलवायु change.
Yahoo ! Mail is a फ़्री ईमेल सेवा offered by the अमरीकी ढूंढें इंजन कम्पनी Yahoo !
It was शुभारम्भ in 1997, and, according to comscore, Yahoo ! मेल is the third-largest web-based ईमेल सेवा साथ 281 लाख users as of December 2012.
Currently, याहू ! offers three versions of Yahoo ! मेल.
The traditional `` Yahoo ! मेल Classic '' continues the availability of the असली इंटरफ़ेस introduced in 1997.
a version introduced in 2005 included a नई अजाक्स interface, drag-and-drop सुविधाएँ, improved search कार्यक्षमता, keyboard शॉर्टकट, पता auto-complete, टैब्स, और other updated सुविधाएँ.
In अक्तूबर 2010, याहू ! released a beta संस्करण of याहू ! Mail, जिससे included improvements to the डिज़ाइन, प्रदर्शन, search कार्यक्षमता, and Facebook संयोजन.
in May 2011, बीटा परीक्षण लिये the नई version रोका, and it became the default interface for Yahoo ! Mail.
in जल्दी 2008, याहू ! began offering असीमित mail भंडार to इसके उपयोक्ता in जवाब to heated competition in the फ़्री web-mail market खण्ड.
on जून 27, 2009, याहू ! मेसेंजर थी एकीकृत with याहू ! मेल.
टकोमा (, ) is a mid-sized शहरी port नगर and the county सीट of Pierce काउंटी, Washington, United States.
The नगर is on वॉशिंगटन 's Puget Sound, दक्षिणपश्चिम of Seattle, पूर्वोत्तर of the राज्य पूंजी, Olympia, और उत्तरपश्चिम of माउंट Rainier National पार्क.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 198,397, according to the 2010 census.
Tacoma is the second-largest नगर in the Puget ध्वनि area और the third largest in the राज्य.
Tacoma also serves as the बीच of business activity लिये the दक्षिण ध्वनि प्रदेश, जिससे has a population of around 1 million people.
टकोमा अपनाया इसके नाम बाद the आसपास माउंट rainier, originally पुकारा माउंट tahoma.
it is known as the `` नगर of Destiny '' because the क्षेत्रफल was चुनी to be the western टर्मिनस of the Northern Pacific रेलरोड in the लेट 19th सदी.
the निर्णय of the railroad was influenced by Tacoma 's neighboring deep-water हार्बर, शुरुआत खाड़ी.
by connecting the खाड़ी with the railroad टकोमा 's motto became `` When rails मिलें sails. ''
आज Commencement खाड़ी serves the Port of टकोमा, a center of अंतरराष्ट्रीय trade on the प्रशांत Coast and वॉशिंगटन राज्य 's largest port.
जैसे most सेंट्रल cities, Tacoma suffered a prolonged decline in the mid-20th century as a result of suburbanization और divestment.
Since the 1990s, developments in the शहर कोर include the विश्वविद्यालयों of Washington टकोमा ; टकोमा Link, the पहला आधुनिक इलेक्ट्रिक लाइट रेल सेवा in the राज्य ; the state 's highest density of आर्ट and history museums ; and a लौटी urban waterfront, the thea foss Waterway.
साथ a long history of blue-collar मजदूर politics — इससे the रेलरोड workers of the 19th century, to the longshoremen of the 20th सदी, to the मजदूर Ready workers of today — Tacoma रै long been known लिये its rough, किरकिरी चित्र.
a song परिचय Tacoma, `` thrice सब अमरीकी '', by American singer-songwriter और former resident neko मामला, describes it as `` a dusty बूढ़ा गहना in the South Puget Sound / where the कारखानों churn / and the timber 's all cut bas ''.
tacoma-pierce काउंटी has महरूम नामित एक of the most livable areas in the country.
टकोमा was भी recently listed as the 19th सबसे walkable नगर in the देश.
In कंट्रास्ट, the नगर is also क्रमित as the सबसे stressed-out नगर in the country in a 2004 सर्वेक्षण.
In 2006, women 's पत्रिका Self named टकोमा the `` सबसे sexually स्वस्थ City '' in the United States.
In 2012, the Advocate gave टकोमा the शीर्षक of `` Gayest नगर in अमेरिका '', in भाग because of the large विविधता of पब्लिक offices held, and Washington State गुजर a bill in 2012 allowing LGBT couples to निकाह.
Tacoma is प्रसिद्ध लिये the 1940 पतन of the टकोमा narrows सेतु.
Chula Vista ( ; ) is the second largest नगर in the San डिएगो metropolitan क्षेत्रफल, the सातवाँ largest नगर in दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया, the fourteenth largest नगर in the राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, and the 77th-largest city in the संयुक्त राज्य.
the जनसांख्यिकी was 243,916 as of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
स्तिथ बस इससे शहर San डिएगो and इससे the Mexican किनारा in the South खाड़ी प्रदेश of the महानगर क्षेत्रफल, the city is at the बीच of एक of the richest आर्थिक और culturally विविध zones in the United States.
chula Vista is so नामित because of इसके दर्शनीय स्थान between the सैन डिएगो Bay and coastal mountain foothills.
Founded in the जल्दी 19th सदी, fast population विकास रै recently been observed in the city.
As the second largest city in सैन Diego काउंटी, Chula Vista रै जल्दी become a destination popular to अनेक पर्यटकों.
Located in the नगर is एक of America 's few year-round संयुक्त राज्य ओलम्पिक Training centers और लोकप्रिय tourist destinations शामिल क्रिकेट Wireless Amphitheater, the chula Vista मरीना, और the Chula विस्टा Nature बीच.
metes and bounds is a system or method of describing जमीन, रियल property ( in contrast to निजी प्रॉपर्टी ) or रियल एस्टेट.
the प्रणाली रै महरूम प्रयुक्त in इंग्लैण्ड लिये अनेक सदियां, और is स्टिल used there in the परिभाषा of general सीमाएँ.
By कस्टम, it was लागू in the असली Thirteen colonies that became the United राज्य, and in many अन्य जमीन jurisdictions आधारित on अंग्रेज़ी आम law.
typically the प्रणाली uses physical features of the local भूगोल, साथ साथ directions और दूरियाँ, to define and describe the boundaries of a पार्सल of जमीन.
The सीमाएँ are वर्णित in a कार्यशील prose स्टाइल, working around the पार्सल in sequence, इससे a पाइंट of शुरूआत, returning वापस to the वही point ; compare साथ the मौखिक अनुष्ठान of धड़कन the bounds.
It may include सन्दर्भ to other adjoining parcels ( और their स्वामी ), और it, in फेरे, could also be referred to in बाद surveys.
at the समय the वर्णन is compiled, it may have been चिह्नित on the मैदान with स्थाई स्मारक लगाई where वहीँ were no उपयुक्त natural monuments.
the term `` metes '' refers to a boundary defined by the measurement of each सीधा run, निर्दिष्ट by a distance between the terminal अंक, and an अभिविन्यास or दिशा.
A दिशा may be a सरल compass bearing, or a precise अभिविन्यास संकल्पित by accurate सर्वेक्षण विधि.
the पद `` bounds '' refers to a more सामान्य boundary वर्णन, ऐसे as साथ a certain watercourse, a stone wall, an adjoining public सड़क way, or an existing भवन.
the प्रणाली is often used to define larger pieces of प्रॉपर्टी ( e.g. farms ), and राजनैतिक subdivisions ( e.g. town सीमाएँ ) where precise परिभाषा is नहीं जरूरी or would be दूर too महंगी, or previously designated boundaries can be incorporated into the description.
सर इसहाक़ Newton ( 25 दिसम्बर 164220 कूच 1727 ) was an अंग्रेज़ी physicist और गणितज्ञ who is widely regarded as one of the सबसे influential वैज्ञानिकों of सब समय और as a key figure in the scientific क्रान्ति.
उसके book Philosophiæ Naturalis प्रिन्सिपिया mathematica ( `` Mathematical सिद्धान्त of प्राकृतिक Philosophy '' ), पहला प्रकाशित in 1687, laid the मूलाधार लिये सबसे of शास्त्रीय mechanics.
न्यूटन भी बना seminal contributions to प्रकाशिकी and साझा क्रेडिट साथ गॉटफ्राइड लैबनिट्ज़ for the आविष्कार of the infinitesimal कलन.
Newton 's प्रिन्सिपिया formulated the कानून of गति और universal gravitation कि वर्चस्व scientists ' दृश्य of the शारीरिक ब्रह्मांड लिये the next तीन सदियां.
It भी demonstrated that the motion of objects on the धरती और that of celestial bodies could be वर्णित by the same principles.
by deriving कॅप्लर 's कानून of ग्रहीय गति इससे उसके mathematical description of गम्भीरता, न्यूटन removed the पिछला संदेह परिचय the validity of the heliocentric model of the ब्रह्मांड.
Newton निर्मित the पहला व्यावहारिक reflecting दूरदर्शी and विकसित a सिद्धान्त of रंग आधारित on the अवलोकन कि a प्रिज़्म decomposes white light into the अनेक colours of the दृश्य spectrum.
he also प्रतिपादित an empirical विधि of cooling और पढ़ाई the गति of sound.
in जोड to his कार्य on the कलन, as a गणितज्ञ न्यूटन contributed to the study of शक्ति series, generalised the द्विपद प्रमेय to non-integer exponents, और विकसित न्यूटन 's विधि for approximating the जड़ें of a फलन.
न्यूटन was a fellow of ट्रिनिटी कॉलेज and the second lucasian प्राध्यापक of गणित at the University of कैम्ब्रिज.
He was a devout but unorthodox ईसाई और, unusually लिये a सदस्य of the कैम्ब्रिज संकाय, he refused to take holy orders in the Church of इंग्लैण्ड, शायद because he privately rejected the doctrine of trinitarianism.
in जोड to उसके work on the गणितीय sciences, Newton भी dedicated much of उसके time to the study of alchemy and biblical कालक्रम, but सबसे of his कार्य in those areas remained unpublished जबतक long बाद his मौत.
In his later जीवन, न्यूटन became अध्यक्ष of the royal समाज.
He भी served the अंग्रेजों सरकारी as वार्डन और निपुण of the royal मिंट.
प्रोf. Walter lewin explains न्यूटन 's विधि of gravitation in MIT कोर्स 8.01
Satellites और projectiles सब obey Newton 's विधि of gravitation
Newton 's law of सार्वभौमिक gravitation राज्य कि every पाइंट द्रव्यमान in the universe attracts every अन्य पाइंट mass साथ a फ़ोर्स कि is सीधे आंशिक to the उत्पाद of उनके masses और inversely आंशिक to the वर्गाकार of the अलहदा between उन्हें.
( separately it थी shown कि विशाल spherically symmetrical masses attract और हैं attracted as if सब उनके mass were concentrated at their centers. )
इस is a general शारीरिक law निकला इससे अनुभवजन्य observations by कया न्यूटन called प्रेरण.
It is a part of classical यांत्रिकी और was प्रतिपादित in न्यूटन 's work Philosophiæ Naturalis प्रिन्सिपिया Mathematica ( `` the Principia '' ), पहला प्रकाशित on 5 July 1687.
( जब न्यूटन 's किताब थी प्रस्तुत in 1686 to the royal Society, Robert Hooke बना a अर्जी कि Newton था obtained the inverse वर्गाकार law इससे उसे – देखिए History section below. )
in आधुनिक भाषा, the विधि states the following:
Assuming si इकाई, f is measured in newtons ( n ), m1 and m2 in गामा ( kg ), r in मीटर ( m ), और the constant g is approximately बराबर to.
the मान of the निरंतर g was first accurately determined from the परिणाम of the कैवेंडिश प्रयोग conducted by the British वैज्ञानिक हेनरी कैवेंडिश in 1798, हालांकि Cavendish did नहीं खुद गणना a numerical value लिये g.
इस experiment थी also the पहला test of न्यूटन 's theory of gravitation between masses in the laboratory.
it took प्लेस 111 years बाद the प्रकाशन of Newton 's प्रिन्सिपिया और 71 years बाद न्यूटन 's मौत, so none of न्यूटन 's calculations could उपयोग the मान of g ; बजाय he could तभी गणना a फ़ोर्स सापेक्ष to another फ़ोर्स.
न्यूटन 's विधि of gravitation resembles Coulomb 's law of electrical शक्तियां, which is प्रयुक्त to गणना the magnitude of electrical फ़ोर्स between दो charged लाशें.
दोनो हैं inverse-square कानून, in which फ़ोर्स is inversely आंशिक to the वर्गाकार of the distance between the लाशें.
कूलम्ब 's Law has the product of two आरोप in प्लेस of the उत्पाद of the masses, and the electrostatic निरंतर in place of the गुरुत्वाकर्षक निरंतर.
Newton 's विधि रै चूंकि महरूम superseded by आइंस्टीन 's सिद्धान्त of सामान्य आपेक्षिकता, लकिन it continues to be used as an बेहतरीन सन्निकटन of the effects of गम्भीरता.
Relativity is required तभी जब there is a need लिये चरम परिशुद्धता, or when dealing with gravitation for extremely massive and घना वस्तुएँ.
White और रेड flags, representing इराकी और अमरीकी मौतों, बैठना in the ग्रास चतुष्कोण of the Valley पुस्तकालयों on the Corvallis, ऑरेगॉन, campus of ऑरेगॉन State University.
As part of the traveling इराकी देह गिनती प्रदर्शनी इससे 2008 to 2009 ( not related to इराकी Body Count प्रोजेक्ट ), the ध्वज aim to `` raise awareness of the human cost of the इराकी युद्ध. ''
( may 2008 )
हताहत of the conflict in इराकी चूंकि 2003 ( शुरूआत साथ the 2003 invasion of Iraq, और continuing साथ the ensuing occupation of इराकी, as खूब as the क्रियाएँ of the विभिन्न armed समूह operating in the देश ) have आइये in अनेक forms, और the सटीकता of the information उपलब्धियाँ on different types of इराकी युद्ध casualties varies greatly.
The तालिका नीचे summarizes various estimates of the इराकी casualty figures.
For troops in the u.s.-led multinational गठबन्धन, the death टोल is carefully tracked और अद्यतनीकृत daily, and the names और छायाचित्र of those killed in कार्रवाई as well as in accidents have been प्रकाशित widely.
A total of 4,486 u.S. सैनिको यहूद मारे in इराकी between 2003 and 2012.
Regarding the इराकी, however, सूचना on दोनो military and civilian casualties is both कम precise and less सतत.
estimates of casualty स्तर are available इससे reporters on the झाँकी, इससे officials of शामिल संगठन, और इससे समूह कि summarize information on incidents reported in the news media.
The शब्द `` हताहत `` in इसके सबसे general भाव includes the injured as खूब as the मुर्दे.
खाते of the क्रमांक of गठबन्धन wounded vary widely, partly क्युकी it is नहीं स्पष्ट कया चाहिए be counted : should only those चोटों गंभीर पर्याप्त to put a soldier out of आयोग be included ?
do illnesses or injuries caused by accidents गिनती, or should the फ़ोकस be restricted to wounds caused by शत्रु सगाई ?
स्त्रोत using different definitions may arrive at बहुत different संख्याएँ, और sometimes the precise परिभाषा is नहीं clearly specified.
asalto al coche ( Robbery of the कोच ), by फ्रांसिस्को de गोया
a highwayman थी a चोर और brigand जो preyed on travellers.
इस type of outlaw प्रायः travelled और robbed by horse, as compared to a footpad जो travelled और robbed on पैर.
आरोहित लुटेरों यहूद widely considered to be socially श्रेष्ठ to footpads.
ऐसे robbers संचालित in Great Britain और आयरलैंड from the elizabethan era जबतक the early 19th सदी.
the word highwayman is first ज्ञात to be used in the साल 1617 ; अन्य euphemisms included `` शूरवीरों of the road '' और `` सज्जनों of the सड़क. ''
दो शर्तें लागू to 19th-century उत्तर American highwaymen were road agents in कुछ instances for पहाड़ डाकुओं while in other मामले the पद is rlallaala for mountain-based ruffians.
in the वही समय period in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, they were known as bushrangers.
Earvin `` जादू '' Johnson, Jr. ( born August 14, 1959 ) is a रिटायर्ड अमरीकी professional basketball खिलाड़ी who played पाइंट guard for the लॉस एंजिल्स लेकर्स of the नेशनल बास्केट संघ ( NBA ).
बाद जीतना championships in ऊँची स्कूल and college, जॉनसन was selected पहला overall in the 1979 NBA ड्राफ्ट by the लेकर्स.
he जीती a चैंपियनशिप and an NBA फाइनल Most मूल्यवान Player Award in his रुकी season, और won चार अधिक championships साथ the लेकर्स दौरान the 1980s.
Johnson retired abruptly in 1991 बाद announcing कि he था contracted hiv, लकिन लौटे to खेल in the 1992 All-Star Game, जीतना the all-star mvp पुरस्कार.
After protests from उसके fellow players, he रिटायर्ड again लिये चार years, लकिन लौटे in 1996, at age 36, to play 32 खेल for the लेकर्स पहले retiring for the third और final time.
जॉनसन 's करियर उपलब्धियाँ शामिल तीन एनबीए MVP पुरस्कार, nine NBA फाइनल appearances, बारह all-star खेल, और टेन all-nba पहला and Second टोली nominations.
He led the लीग in regular-season assists four times, और is the NBA 's all-time leader in औसत assists per खेल, at 11.2.
जॉनसन was a member of the `` Dream Team ``, the U.S. basketball team कि जीती the ओलम्पिक सुनहरा पदक in 1992.
After leaving the एनबीए in 1992, जॉनसन formed the Magic जॉनसन All-Stars, a barnstorming टोली that travelled around the world playing exhibition खेल.
जॉनसन थी सम्मानित as एक of the 50 महानतम खिलाड़ी in एनबीए इतिहास in 1996, and enshrined in the बास्केट Hall of कीर्ति in 2002.
he was रेटेड the महानतम NBA पाइंट guard of सब time by ESPN in 2007.
उसके friendship और फंसने साथ Boston सेल्टिक्स star लैरी Bird, जिसको he faced in the 1979 NCAA फाइनल and three एनबीए चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी, were खूब प्रलेखित.
चूंकि his retirement, जॉनसन रै महरूम an एडवोकेट for HIV/ एड्स रोकथाम and safe sex, as well as an उद्योगों, लोकसेवक, broadcaster और motivational स्पीकर.
Johnson थी a part-owner of the लेकर्स for several सालो, and was part of a group कि purchased the लॉस एंजिल्स डॉजर्स in 2012.
allium cells in different phases of the कोशिका साईकिल
the कोशिकाएं of eukaryotes ( बाएँ ) और prokaryotes ( सही )
the cell is the मौलिक structural, functional और biological ईकाई of all ज्ञात living organisms.
It is the smallest unit of life कि is वर्गीकृत as a जीना thing ( except virus, जिससे consists तभी from dna/rna covered by protein और lipids ), और is often called the भवन ब्लाक of जीवन.
it consists of a protoplasm enclosed भीतर a membrane, जिससे contains many biomolecules ऐसे as प्रोटीन and nucleic acids.
Organisms can be classified as एककोशिकीय ( consisting of a सिंगल cell ; सहित सबसे जीवाणु ) or बहुकोशिकीय ( including plants और animals ).
While the number of कोशिकाएं in plants और पशु varies इससे प्रजाति to प्रजाति, इंसानो contain परिचय 100 trillion ( 1014 ) कोशिकाएं.
सबसे संयंत्र और एनिमल कोशिकाएं are between 1 और 100 micrometres and इसलिए are visible only अंतर्गत the microscope.
The कोशिका थी खोजा by रॉबर्ट hooke in 1665.
the cell theory, पहला developed in 1839 by Matthias jakob schleiden और Theodor schwann, states कि all जीवों हैं रचित of एक or अधिक कोशिकाएं, कि all कोशिकाएं आइये from preexisting कोशिकाएं, कि vital कृत्यों of an सजीव occur भीतर कोशिकाएं, and that सब cells contain the hereditary information जरुरी लिये regulating कोशिका functions और लिये transmitting information to the अगला पीढी of कोशिकाएं.
Cells उभरा on ग्रह Earth at least 4.0–4.3 अरब सालो पहले.
the शब्द कोशिका आता इससे the लैटिन cella, meaning `` छोटी रूम ''.
The वर्णनात्मक term for the smallest living biological ढांचा was coined by रॉबर्ट Hooke in a किताब he प्रकाशित in 1665 when he compared the कॉर्क कोशिकाएं he देखी through his सूक्ष्मदर्शी to the छोटी rooms भिक्षुओं lived in.
grecian Formula is a मेन 's hair coloring उत्पाद in the United राज्य.
Canada और Europe previously banned the उत्पाद because of इसके उपयोग of सीसे एसीटेट.
a motor स्कूटर 's सामने साथ an अव्यवहारिक number और variety of headlamps, added for सजावटी purposes
a headlamp is a lamp attached to the सामने of a vehicle to लाइट the सड़क ahead.
headlamp प्रदर्शन has steadily improved throughout the automobile आयु, spurred by the ग्रेट disparity between दिन और nighttime ट्रैफ़िक fatalities : the u.S. नेशनल राजमार्ग Traffic Safety Administration राज्य कि nearly half of सब traffic-related fatalities occur in the अंधेरा, despite only 25 % of traffic यात्राएं during darkness.
While it is common for the term हेडलाइट to be प्रयुक्त interchangeably in informal discussion, headlamp is the term for the यंत्र itself, जबकि headlight properly refers to the beam of लाइट उत्पादित और वितरित by the device.
अन्य वाहनों, ऐसे as trains and aircraft, हैं required to have headlamps.
Bicycle headlamps are often used on साइकिल, और हैं जरूरी in कुछ jurisdictions.
वे can be powered by a battery or a छोटी विद्युत सृजनकर्ता on the व्हील.
additionally automotive रात्रि vision प्रणालियों work to supplement headlamps.
महिलाओं 's अधिकारों हैं the अधिकारों and entitlements claimed लिये महिलाओं और लड़कियों of many समाजों worldwide.
In कुछ स्थान ये rights हैं institutionalized or supported by विधि, local कस्टम, और आचरण, whereas in अन्य they may be ignored or suppressed.
वे differ from broader notions of human rights through claims of an inherent historical और traditional पूर्वाग्रह against the कसरत of अधिकारों by महिलाओं और लड़कियों in favour of men और लड़कों.
Issues commonly संबद्ध साथ notions of महिलाओं 's अधिकारों include, though are नहीं limited to, the सही : to bodily अखंडता and autonomy ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to hold public दफ्तर ; to कार्य ; to fair मजदूरी or equal अदा ; to अपना प्रॉपर्टी ; to शिक्षा ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into विधिक अनुबंध ; and to have marital, parental and धार्मिक अधिकारों.
Caryn ऐलेन जॉनसन, best ज्ञात as Whoopi गोल्डबर्ग (, ( born November 13, 1955 ) is an American comedienne, actress, singer-songwriter, political activist, लेखक और talk show मेजबान.
गोल्डबर्ग बना her film डेब्यू in The रंग जामुनी ( 1985 ), playing celie, a mistreated ब्लैक स्त्री in the Deep South.
वो प्राप्त a नामांकन लिये the अकादमी Award लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री और won her first Golden ग्लोब Award लिये her role in the film.
In 1990, वो played oda mae भूरा, a wacky मानसिक helping a slain man ( पैट्रिक swayze ) save उसके lover ( Demi Moore ) in the ब्लॉकबस्टर भुत.
इस प्रदर्शन जीती her a second Golden ग्लोब और an Academy पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Supporting Actress ; this बना गोल्डबर्ग तभी the दूसरी ब्लैक स्त्री in the इतिहास of the Academy पुरस्कार to जीत an acting oscar—the first being हैटी McDaniel who जीती for गए साथ the हवा in 1939.
notable बाद films include Sister अधिनियम और Sister Act 2, the Player, बना in अमेरिका, कैसा Stella मिला Her नाली Back, Girl, Interrupted और चूहा Race.
वो is also acclaimed for उसके भूमिकाएँ as the bartender Guinan in Star Trek : The Next Generation, as Terry Doolittle in jumpin ' Jack फ्लैश, और as कार्मेन tibideaux in ग्ली, as खूब as the voice of shenzi the लकड़बग्घा in the शेर किंग.
गोल्डबर्ग has महरूम मनोनीत लिये 13 Emmy Awards लिये her कार्य in टेलीविज़न.
She was co-producer of the लोकप्रिय खेल दिखाएँ हॉलीवुड Squares from 1998 to 2004.
वो रै महरूम the मॉडरेटर of the दिन बात दिखाएँ the दृश्य since 2007.
गोल्डबर्ग रै a ग्रैमी, two दिन Emmys, दो सुनहरी ग्लोब्स, a Tony ( लिये उत्पादन, not acting ), and an Oscar.
In जोड, Goldberg रै a British अकादमी Film Award, four People 's चुनाव Awards, and has been सम्मानित with a स्टार on the हॉलीवुड चलना of कीर्ति.
वो is one of the few मनोरंजनकर्ता जो have won an एमी, Grammy, ऑस्कर, और टोनी पुरस्कार.
the नेशनल हॉकी लीग ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit association '' which operates a major professional बर्फ hockey लीग of 30 franchised member clubs, of जिससे seven are currently located in Canada और 23 in the United राज्य.
Headquartered in नई यॉर्क नगर, the NHL is widely माना to be the premier professional ice हॉकी लीग in the world, और एक of the प्रमुख पेशेवर खेल लीग in the संयुक्त राज्य and Canada.
The Stanley कप, the oldest पेशेवर खेल ट्रॉफी in North America, is awarded annually to the लीग playoff champion at the समाप्त of each season.
The लीग was organized on November 26, 1917, in मॉन्ट्रियल, क्यूबेक, कनाडा, बाद the बर्खास्तगी of operations of its predecessor संगठन, the नेशनल हॉकी Association ( NHA ), which had महरूम संस्थापित in 1909.
it प्रारंभ with चार teams and, through a श्रेणी of expansions, contractions, और relocations, the लीग is now composed of 30 क्रियाशील franchises.
the स्वदेश to जिससे the name of the लीग originally referred was Canada, although the league has now been binational चूंकि 1924 when it विस्तारित into the United States.
बाद a श्रमिक dispute कि led to the cancellation of the संपूर्ण 2004–05 season, the लीग resumed play under a new सामूहिक bargaining अनुबंध that included a सैलरी cap.
in 2009, the NHL enjoyed रिकार्ड highs in terms of sponsorships, उपस्थिति, और टेलीविज़न audiences.
the NHL draws many अत्यधिक skilled खिलाड़ी इससे सब over the संसार and फिलहाल रै players from about 20 अलग देशों.
Although Canadians have historically constituted the बहुमत of the खिलाड़ी in the एनएचएल, over the पास्ट चार प्लस दशकों the percentages of us और European players have increased both because of the NHL 's continued विस्तार इससे six to तीस clubs चूंकि 1967, और the increased availability of अत्यधिक skilled यूरोपीय खिलाड़ी.
Maggots feeding on carrion.
a maggot is the larva of a मक्खी ( अनुक्रम diptera ) ; it is applied in particular to the लार्वे of Brachyceran उड़ता, ऐसे as houseflies, cheese उड़ता, and blowflies, rather than larvae of the Nematocera, ऐसे as मच्छरों और Crane flies.
`` Maggot '' is not a तकनीकी पद and should not be लिया as such ; in अनेक मानक पाठ्यपुस्तकों of कीटविज्ञान it does नहीं appear in the अनुक्रमणिका at all.
in many non-technical ग्रन्थ the पद is used for insect लार्वे in general.
Other स्त्रोत have coined उनके अपना definitions ; लिये उदाहरण : ``...
The पद applies to a grub जब सब ट्रेस of limbs has disappeared... '' and ``... Applied to the footless लार्वे of dipters. ''
Maggot-like मक्खी लार्वे are of चौड़ी importance in पारिस्थितिकी and आयुर्विज्ञान ; among other roles, विभिन्न प्रजाति are prominent in recycling carrion और garbage, attacking फसलों and foodstuffs, spreading सूक्ष्मजैविक infections, and causing myiasis.
हेरोदेस (, Hordos, यूनानी :, Hērōdēs ), also known as हेरोदेस the ग्रेट ( 73/74 BCE – 4 bce in जेरिको ), थी a रोमन क्लाएंट किंग of judea.
उसके epithet of `` the ग्रेट '' is widely विवादित as he is वर्णित as `` a madman जो murdered उसके own family और a ग्रेट अनेक rabbis ``.
he is भी ज्ञात लिये his colossal building प्रोजेक्ट in जेरूसलम and elsewhere, including his expansion of the दूसरी टेम्पल in Jerusalem ( sometimes referred to as हेरोदेस 's Temple ) और the निर्माण of the port at Caesarea Maritima.
महत्वपूर्ण details of his जीवनी are gleaned इससे the works of the 1st सदी CE roman–jewish historian josephus Flavius.
The Romans बना Herod 's बेटे, हेरोदेस archelaus, ethnarch of judea, samaria, and Idumea ( biblical edom ) इससे 4 bce to 6 CE, referred to as the tetrarchy of Judea.
Archelaus थी judged incompetent by the रोमन सम्राट Augustus जो तब संयुक्त samaria, Judea proper और Idumea into iudaea प्रांत अंतर्गत rule of a prefect until आयु 41.
हेरोदेस 's other बेटे हेरोदेस antipas थी tetrarch of galilee इससे 4 bce–39 CE.
ABO रक्त समूह antigens present on red blood कोशिकाएं और igm antibodies उपस्थित in the सीरम
The abo रक्त समूह प्रणाली is the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण blood type system ( or रक्त समूह system ) in इंसान रक्त transfusion.
the associated anti-a and anti-B antibodies are प्रायः igm antibodies, जिससे are प्रायः produced in the first years of जीवन by sensitization to पर्यावरणीय substances such as food, जीवाणु, और वाइरस.
abo blood प्रकार हैं भी present in कुछ other पशु, लिये example apes ऐसे as chimpanzees, bonobos, and gorillas.
साल 1907 ( mcmvii ) was a आम साल starting on Tuesday ( link होगा प्रदर्शक the full calendar ) of the Gregorian पंचांग और a common साल starting on Monday of the 13-day-slower जूलियन calendar.
Northville is an affluent नगर located in और विभाजित by ओकलैंड and Wayne काउंटी in the U.S. state of Michigan.
the area is a उपनगरीय of महानगर डेट्रॉयट.
the जनसांख्यिकी was 5,970 at the 2010 census.
सबसे of the नगर is in ओकलैंड काउंटी, और is घिरी by the नगर of novi.
The Wayne काउंटी portion is घिरी by northville Township.
northville is served by northville Public Schools.
the city is स्तिथ पूर्वोत्तर of ऐन Arbor और उत्तरपश्चिम of Detroit.
ऐलेन stritch ( born February 2, 1925 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री और vocalist.
She has appeared in numerous stage plays and musicals, विशेषता films, और many टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम.
वो is known लिये उसके प्रदर्शन of `` The महिलाओं जो लंच '' in स्टीफन Sondheim 's 1970 musical कम्पनी, her 2001 one-woman दिखाएँ, ऐलेन Stritch at Liberty, और recently for उसके role as जोकर Donaghy 's माँ Colleen on NBC 's 30 Rock.
वो रै been nominated for the टोनी पुरस्कार पाँच टाइम्स in various श्रेणी.
stritch is भी a three-time Emmy पुरस्कार विजेता.
misfits is a अंग्रेजों विज्ञान fiction comedy-drama television दिखाएँ about a समूह of यंग offenders sentenced to कार्य in a community सेवा कार्यक्रम, जहाँ they obtain अलौकिक powers after a अजीब विद्युत storm.
the श्रेणी opened in 2009 और is currently ongoing.
Antonia Thomas, Iwan rheon, लॉरेन socha, Nathan Stewart-Jarrett, and Robert sheehan are introduced as अलीशा Daniels, साइमन Bellamy, केली Bailey, Curtis डोनोवन, and नाथन यंग क्रमशः.
Sheehan left after the second श्रेणी, replaced in the third by Joseph Gilgun as रूडी वेड.
After the चौथी श्रेणी थी घोषित rheon, थामस and Socha था बाएँ उनके roles और would be replaced by नई characters Karla crome, Nathan McMullen and Matt Stokoe, as जेस, फिन और एलेक्स respectively.
मिडवे through the चौथी श्रेणी, Stewart-Jarrett बाएँ while Natasha o'keeffe joined the डाल as ऐबी Smith.
on 19 कूच 2013, चैनल 4 घोषित at a press इवेंट कि वे have नवीनीकृत misfits for a पांचवां और फाइनल श्रेणी containing 8 episodes.
Brett lorenzo favre ( born अक्तूबर 10, 1969 ) is a former American football quarterback who खर्च the majority of उसके करियर साथ the ग्रीन Bay Packers of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League ( एनएफएल ).
he was a 20-year veteran of the एनएफएल, having निभाई क्वार्टरबैक for the Atlanta falcons ( 1991 ), ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स ( 1992 – 2007 ), New यॉर्क jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota वाइकिंग्स ( 2009 – 2010 ).
favre is the तभी quarterback in एनएफएल इतिहास to throw for over 70,000 yards, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, and over 10,000 pass कोशिशें.
favre प्रारंभ at the quarterback position लिये the University of Southern Mississippi for चार सालो पहले being चयनित in the second गोलाकार of the 1991 एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट by अटलांटा ( 33rd overall ).
he थी traded to ग्रीन खाड़ी on February 10, 1992, लिये the 19th चुनें in the 1992 NFL Draft.
Favre became the Packers ' starting क्वार्टरबैक in the चौथी game of the 1992 ऋतु, stepping in लिये injured क्वार्टरबैक डॉन majkowski, and started every game through the 2007 ऋतु.
He थी traded to the नई York Jets and प्रारंभ at क्वार्टरबैक लिये the 2008 ऋतु पहले signing साथ the Vikings on अगस्त 18, 2009 as their starting क्वार्टरबैक.
He made an एनएफएल रिकार्ड 297 लगातार starts ( 321 सहित playoffs ).
he is the तभी player to जीत the ap सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी तीन consecutive टाइम्स ( 1995–97 ).
he रै led टीमों to eight प्रभाग championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), पाँच NFC चैंपियनशिप खेल ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), and two सुपर Bowl appearances ( सुपर Bowl xxxi, सुपर Bowl xxxii ), winning एक ( सुपर कटोरी xxxi ).
he holds many एनएफएल रिकॉर्ड, सहित most करियर touchdown passes, most career गुजर गज, सबसे career pass completions, most करियर pass कोशिशें, most career interceptions thrown, सबसे consecutive starts by a खिलाड़ी, सबसे लगातार starts by a क्वार्टरबैक, most career victories as a starting क्वार्टरबैक, सबसे sacked, और most fumbles.
He is भी referred to by his उपनाम `` the Gunslinger ''.
the following is a list of notable वायुयान hijackings around the world.
the World चौड़ी वेब ( abbreviated as WWW or W3, commonly known as the web ), is a प्रणाली of interlinked हाइपरटेक्स्ट दस्तावेज़ पहुँचा via the Internet.
साथ a वेब browser, एक can view वेब पृष्ठों that may contain text, images, वीडियो, और other multimedia, and navigate between them via hyperlinks.
Using अवधारणाओं from उसके पहले hypertext प्रणालियों like enquire, अंग्रेजों engineer, कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक और at that समय employee of the cern, सर टिम berners-lee, अभी निदेशक of the संसार Wide Web consortium ( w3c ), wrote a प्रस्ताव in March 1989 लिये what होता eventually become the World Wide वेब.
at cern, a European शोध संगठन near जेनेवा straddling the किनारा between France और Switzerland, Berners-Lee और belgian कंप्यूटर scientist रॉबर्ट Cailliau प्रस्तावित in 1990 to use हाइपरटेक्स्ट `` to कड़ी और access सूचना of विभिन्न kinds as a वेब of nodes in जिससे the उपयोक्ता can ब्राउज़ at होगा '', and they सरेआम introduced the प्रोजेक्ट in दिसम्बर of the same year.
Wayne Lyman Morse ( October 20, 1900july 22, 1974 ) थी a राजनेता and attorney इससे ऑरेगॉन, संयुक्त राज्य, ज्ञात लिये उसके proclivity लिये opposing उसके पार्टियों ' leadership, और specifically for his opposition to the वियतनाम युद्ध on संवैधानिक grounds.
born in मैडिसन, विस्कॉन्सिन, और educated at the University of wisconsin-madison और the विश्वविद्यालयों of मिनेसोटा विधि स्कूल, मोर्स moved to Oregon in 1930 and began शिक्षण at the विश्वविद्यालयों of ऑरेगॉन स्कूल of विधि.
दौरान World युद्ध ii he थी निर्वाचित to the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट as a Republican ; he became an स्वतंत्र बाद ड्वाइट D. Eisenhower 's चुनाव to the प्रेसिडेंसी in 1952.
जबकि an स्वतंत्र, he नियत a record लिये performing the second longest one-person filibuster in the इतिहास of the सीनेट.
Morse joined the लोकतांत्रिक Party in 1955, and was reelected twice while a सदस्य of that party.
मोर्स बना a brief run लिये the लोकतांत्रिक Party 's अध्यक्षीय nomination in 1960.
a few years later, मोर्स थी one of तभी two सीनेटरों who opposed the गल्फ of tonkin रेज़ोल्यूशन, which प्राधिकृत the अध्यक्ष to लो सैन्य कार्रवाई in वियतनाम बगैर a declaration of war.
He continued to बोलो आउट against the युद्ध in the ensuing years, और खोया his 1968 बोली लिये reelection to bob Packwood, जो criticized उसके दमदार opposition to the युद्ध.
Morse बना two अधिक बोलियों लिये reelection to the Senate पहले his मौत in 1974.
in parliamentary कार्यविधि, a motion to table has दो different और contradictory अर्थs:
In the संयुक्त राज्य, to table usually means the to lay [ the टॉपिक ] on the तालिका or to move लिये postponement of विचार ; a प्रस्ताव to बर्खास्तगी विचार of a pending motion.
much कम often, it अर्थात् a गति to `` put on the table '' : a प्रस्ताव to शुरू विचार ( or reconsideration ), a उपयोग सतत with the बाकी of the english-speaking संसार.
in the rest of the english-speaking संसार ऐसे as the United किंगडम, to table means to मूव to प्लेस [ the topic ] upon the तालिका ( or to मूव to प्लेस on the table ) : a proposal to begin विचार ( or reconsideration ) of a proposal.
दोनो the American और the British dialects have the भाव of `` to तालिका '' as to lay [ the टॉपिक ] on the table or to कारण [ the topic ] to झूठ on the तालिका.
the अंतर is the विचार of कया the तालिका is for, कि of a shelf off to the पक्ष, or an active work बेंच.
the British meaning रै the भाव of the table as होने an क्रियाशील work बेंच, साथ the टॉपिक होने the center of ध्यान, माना और discussed by सब until it can be resolved, at which point it is लिया बंद the 'table '.
the अमरीकी sense is कि the तालिका is जैसे that of a शेल्फ, archive, or long-term भंडार device, जहाँ the टॉपिक रै महरूम disposed of by sending it to the 'table ' और leaving it वहीँ.
Toy स्टोरी 3 is a 2010 अमरीकी 3d कंप्यूटर एनिमेटेड comedy-drama prison film, and the third installment in the खिलौना स्टोरी series.
It was उत्पादित by Pixar Animation studios और वितरित by Walt Disney Pictures.
निर्देशित by ली Unkrich, the film थी released worldwide from जून through October in डिज़्नी डिजिटल 3-D, RealD, और imax 3d.
खिलौना Story 3 was भी the first film to be released theatrically with dolby घेर 7.1 sound.
the पटकथा was लिखा by माइकल arndt, जबकि unkrich लिखा the story साथ साथ जॉन Lasseter और एंड्रयू Stanton, respectively निदेशक and co-writer of the two first films.
The प्लाट focuses on the खिलौने Woody, बज़ Lightyear, और उनके friends dealing साथ an अनिश्चित future as their owner, Andy, prepares to छोड़ लिये college.
अभिनेताओं Tom Hanks, टिम एलन, जोन Cusack, Don rickles, estelle हैरिस, John Ratzenberger, Wallace Shawn, जेफ़ pidgeon, Jodi बेंसन, R. ली ermey, जॉन मॉरिस, and लॉरी metcalf reprised their voice-over roles from the previous films.
Jim Varney, जो निभाई slinky श्वान in the first दो films, और जो ranft, जो portrayed lenny and Wheezy, both died पहले production began on खिलौना Story 3.
the भूमिका of Slinky श्वान was taken over by ब्लेक क्लार्क ( a friend of varney ), जबकि Ranft 's characters and various others यहूद लिखा आउट of the स्टोरी.
New वर्ण include performances by Ned beatty, Timothy डाल्टन, क्रिस्टन schaal, bonnie Hunt, whoopi गोल्डबर्ग, जेफ़ garlin, Richard दयालु, और माइकल Keaton.
the feature broke Shrek the तिहाई record as the biggest खोलने day उत्तर अमरीकी सकल लिये an एनिमेटेड फिल्मी unadjusted लिये महंगाई, और a big opening with an unadjusted सकल of $ 110,307,189.
it is भी the highest-grossing खोलने weekend लिये a Pixar फिल्मी, as खूब as the highest-grossing opening weekend लिये a film to have opened in the माह of June.
This is the highest-grossing फिल्मी of 2010, both in the संयुक्त States और Canada, and विश्वव्यापी.
in जल्दी August, it became Pixar 's highest-grossing film at the उत्तर American बक्सा दफ्तर ( surpassing ढूंढना Nemo ), and the highest-grossing एनिमेटेड फिल्मी of all समय विश्वव्यापी ( surpassing shrek 2 ) ; बाद that माह, खिलौना स्टोरी 3 became the first कभी animated film in इतिहास to make over $ 1 billion विश्वव्यापी.
it is currently the 10th-highest-grossing फिल्मी of सब समय.
खिलौना Story 3 was nominated लिये five Academy Awards, including Best चित्र, बेहतरीन adapted पटकथा, और बेहतरीन Sound संपादन.
It थी the तीसरा एनिमेटेड film ( बाद Beauty और the जानवर और up ) to be मनोनीत लिये Academy पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Picture.
it won the awards for बेहतरीन Animated Feature और Best असली सोंग.
जॉन Levell starks ( born August 10, 1965 ) is an अमरीकी रिटायर्ड पेशेवर basketball शूटिंग गार्ड.
starks was सूचीबद्ध at 6'5 '' and 190 pounds दौरान उसके एनबीए playing करियर.
हालांकि he थी not drafted in the 1988 एनबीए ड्राफ्ट after attending चार कॉलेजों in उसके देशी ओक्लाहोमा, including ओक्लाहोमा State विश्वविद्यालयों, he gained fame while playing लिये the New यॉर्क Knicks of the नेशनल बास्केट Association in the 1990s.
Secure डिजिटल or ( sd ) is a non-volatile memory कार्ड स्वरूप लिये use in पोर्टेबल devices, such as मोबाईल phones, डिजिटल कैमरे, gps नेविगेशन devices, और tablet कंप्यूटर.
the Secure डिजिटल मानक is कायम by the SD कार्ड Association ( sda ).
SD technologies have महरूम implemented in अधिक than 400 ब्रांड्स across dozens of उत्पाद श्रेणी and more than 8,000 मॉडल.
The Secure Digital स्वरूप includes four card परिवारों available in three अलग रूप कारकों.
the चार families हैं the असली standard-capacity ( SDSC ), the High-Capacity ( SDHC ), the eXtended-Capacity ( sdxc ), और the sdio, which combines input/output functions with आंकड़ा storage.
the तीन रूप factors हैं the original size, the `` mini '' आकार, और the `` सूक्ष्म '' size ( see illustration ).
There are अनेक combinations of form factors और device परिवारों.
electrically passive adapters allow the use of a छोटी कार्ड in a मेजबान यंत्र निर्मित to hold a larger card.
Host devices कि comply साथ newer संस्करण of the specification provide पिछड़ा compatibility and accept पुरानी sd cards, लकिन इस article explains अनेक कारकों कि can prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A नए card may offer greater क्षमता than the मेजबान यंत्र can handle.
a newer card may उपयोग a संचिका system the मेजबान यंत्र can not navigate.
Use of an SDIO कार्ड requires the मेजबान device be designed लिये the input/output कृत्यों the कार्ड provides.
the संगठन of the कार्ड थी changed starting साथ the sdhc परिवार.
कुछ vendors produced SDSC cards ऊपर 1 gb before the SDA था मानकीकृत a विधि of doing so.
the sda उपयोग several trademarked logos to enforce compliance साथ इसके विशेषताएँ and assure users of संगतता.
Hugh जॉन Mungo ग्रान्ट ( born 9 सितंबर 1960 ) is a British कर्ता और फिल्मी निर्माता.
he has प्राप्त a सुनहरी Globe, a BAFTA, and an Honorary césar.
His films have earned अधिक than US $ 2.4 billion इससे 25 नाट्य releases विश्वव्यापी.
ग्रान्ट हासिल अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्टारडम बाद appearing in रिचर्ड Curtis 's कामयाब Four विवाह और a अंत्येष्टि ( 1994 ).
He प्रयुक्त इस breakthrough भूमिका as a बारंबार cinematic persona during the 1990s, delivering कॉमिक प्रदर्शन in mainstream films like Mickey ब्लू आँखें ( 1999 ) और नॉटिंग Hill ( 1999 ).
By the फेरे of the 21st सदी, he had स्थापित खुद as a अग्रणी man skilled with a satirical कॉमिक talent.
Grant रै विस्तारित उसके oeuvre साथ critically acclaimed turns as a cad in ब्रिजेट जोन्स 's Diary ( 2001 ), परिचय A Boy ( 2002 ), प्रेम Actually ( 2003 ), and अमरीकी Dreamz ( 2006 ).
He बाद निभाई विरूद्ध प्रकार with multiple कैमियो भूमिकाएँ in the एपिक drama film Cloud Atlas ( 2012 ).
Within the film उद्योग, Grant is cited as an anti-film स्टार जो approaches his भूमिकाएँ like a अक्षर कर्ता, और attempts to मेक उसके acting appear spontaneous.
hallmarks of उसके comic कौशल include a nonchalant टच of विडंबना / sarcasm और पढ़ाई शारीरिक mannerisms as well as उसके precisely-timed dialogue delivery and फेशियल expressions.
the entertainment मीडिया 's coverage of ग्रान्ट 's जीवन बंद the बिग screen रै प्रायः निष्प्रभ his work as a thespian.
he रै महरूम vocal परिचय उसके disrespect लिये the व्यवसायिक of एक्टिंग, और in उसके तिरस्कार towards the culture of हस्ती and दुश्मनी towards the media.
In a करियर spanning 30 years, ग्रान्ट has repeatedly claimed कि acting is not a true कॉलिंग लकिन बस a जॉब he गिरी into.
the हान राजवंश ( ; ) ( 206 BC – 220 AD ) was an इम्पीरियल dynasty of चीन, preceded by the qin राजवंश ( 221–207 bc ) and succeeded by the तीन Kingdoms ( 220–280 ad ).
it थी संस्थापित by the विद्रोही नेता लियू Bang, ज्ञात मरणोपरांत as सम्राट gaozu of Han.
It was briefly बाधित by the Xin राजवंश ( 9–23 AD ) of the पूर्व रीजेंट वांग mang.
This interregnum separates the हान into दो periods : the पश्चिमी हान ( 206 bc – 9 AD ) and Eastern Han ( 25–220 AD ).
Spanning over four centuries, the काल of the हान राजवंश is considered a सुनहरी age in चाइनीज history.
To इस दिन, चीन 's बहुमत जातीय group refers to itself as the `` Han people '' and the चाइनीज स्क्रिप्ट is referred to as `` हान वर्ण ``.
The हान Empire was विभाजित into क्षेत्रों directly controlled by the central सरकारी, ज्ञात as commanderies, and a क्रमांक of semi-autonomous kingdoms.
These kingdoms gradually खोया सब vestiges of their independence, particularly following the विद्रोह of the Seven States.
the xiongnu, a nomadic confederation जिससे वर्चस्व the पूर्वी यूरेशियाई स्तान, defeated the Han फौज in battle in 200 BC.
Following the defeat, a राजनैतिक विवाह गठबंधन थी negotiated in which the हान became the de facto अवर partner.
When, despite the सन्धि, the xiongnu जारी to raid हान सीमायें, सम्राट wu of हान ( r. 141–87 bc ) शुभारम्भ several military अभियान against उन्हें.
the ultimate हान विजय in ये युद्धों आखिरकार मजबूर the Xiongnu to accept vassal औकात as हान tributaries.
ये campaigns expanded हान sovereignty into the tarim जलाशय of Central Asia and helped स्थापित the vast व्यापार network ज्ञात as the रेशा Road, which reached as दूर as the भूमध्यसागरीय संसार.
हान शक्तियां प्रबंधित to divide the Xiongnu into दो competing राष्ट्र, the दक्षिणी और उत्तरी xiongnu, and मजबूर the उत्तरी Xiongnu आरपार the इली River.
despite ये victories, the territories उत्तर of हान 's सीमायें यहूद जल्दी overrun by the nomadic Xianbei कनफेडरेशन.
After 92 AD, the राजमहल हिजड़े increasingly involved themselves in court राजनीती, engaging in violent power struggles between the विभिन्न consort clans of the empresses और सम्राज्ञी dowagers, causing the हान 's ultimate downfall.
इम्पीरियल authority थी भी seriously challenged by large daoist धार्मिक societies जिससे instigated the पीला पगड़ी Rebellion और the पाँच pecks of Rice विद्रोह.
following the death of सम्राट ling ( r. 168–189 ad ), the palace हिजड़े suffered होलसेल massacre by military अधिकारियों, allowing सदस्यों of the aristocracy और military राज्यपालों to become warlords और divide the साम्राज्य.
जब Cao pi, King of वेई, usurped the सिंहासन from Emperor Xian, the Han राजवंश ceased to मौजूद.
the हान राजवंश थी an age of आर्थिक समृद्धि और saw a significant विकास of the धन अर्थव्यवस्था पहला established during the झोऊ राजवंश ( c. 1050–256 BC ).
the coinage जारी by the सेंट्रल सरकारी मिंट in 119 bc remained the मानक coinage of चीन जबतक the Tang Dynasty ( 618–907 ad ).
to pay लिये इसके military अभियान और the उपनिवेश of newly conquered frontier territories, the government राष्ट्रीयकृत the निजी नमक और iron उद्योग in 117 bc.
ये सरकारी monopolies were repealed during the Eastern हान काल, and the खोया आय was recouped through heavily taxing निजी entrepreneurs.
the emperor थी at the pinnacle of हान समाज.
He presided over the Han government लकिन shared शक्ति with दोनो the nobility और नियुक्त मंत्रियों जो आए largely इससे the scholarly gentry क्लास.
From the reign of सम्राट wu onward, the चाइनीज अदालत officially sponsored confucianism in शिक्षा और अदालत राजनीती, synthesized साथ the cosmology of later विद्वानों such as डांग Zhongshu.
इस नीति endured until the fall of the चिंग Dynasty in 1911 ad.
Science and प्रौद्योगिकी दौरान the Han period देखी significant advances, सहित papermaking, the nautical steering rudder, the use of negative संख्याएँ in गणित, the raised-relief map, the हाइड्रोलिक -powered armillary गोला लिये खगोलशास्त्र, and a भूकम्पमापी employing an उलट pendulum.
Tourette syndrome ( भी पुकारा tourette 's syndrome, Tourette 's विकार, गाइल्स de la tourette सिंड्रोम, gts or, more commonly, बस tourette 's or TS ) is an inherited neuropsychiatric disorder with onset in बाल्यकाल, characterized by अनेक शारीरिक ( motor ) tics और at least एक vocal ( phonic ) tic.
ये tics characteristically मोम and wane, can be suppressed temporarily, and are preceded by a premonitory urge.
Tourette 's is पारिभाषित as part of a वर्णक्रम of tic विकार, जिससे शामिल क्षणिक and chronic tics.
Tourette 's थी once माना a विरल और bizarre syndrome, सबसे often associated with the exclamation of obscene शब्द or socially अनुचित और अपमानजनक remarks ( coprolalia ), लकिन इस लक्षण is present in तभी a small अल्पसंख्यक of people साथ tourette 's.
tourette 's is no longer considered a विरल condition, लकिन it is नहीं सदा correctly पहचाना because most मामले हैं mild और the severity of tics decreases लिये सबसे children as they pass through adolescence.
between 0.4 % and 3.8 % of children आयु 5 to 18 may have tourette 's ; the prevalence of क्षणिक और दीर्घकालिक tics in school-age children is higher, with the अधिक आम tics of eye blinking, खाँसी, गला clearing, sniffing, and फेशियल movements.
चरम tourette 's in adulthood is a rarity, and tourette 's करता not adversely affect intelligence or life प्रत्याशा.
जेनेटिक और पर्यावरणीय कारकों play a भूमिका in the etiology of tourette 's, लकिन the exact कल्याणकारी हैं unknown.
in सबसे cases, दवा is unnecessary.
वहीँ is no प्रभावी उपचार for प्रत्येक case of tics, but निश्चित medications और therapies can सहायता जब उनके उपयोग is warranted.
Education is an important part of any उपचार plan, and explanation and reassurance अलोन हैं often sufficient उपचार.
comorbid conditions ( co-occurring diagnoses अन्य than tourette 's ) ऐसे as attention-deficit अतिसक्रियता disorder ( ADHD ) और obsessive–compulsive विकार ( ओसीडी ) are उपस्थित in अनेक मरीजों देखी in tertiary specialty clinics.
ये अन्य शर्तें often cause more कार्यात्मक पुतलियों to the व्यक्तिगत than the tics कि हैं the hallmark of tourette 's, hence it is important to correctly पहचानो comorbid शर्तें and दावत उन्हें.
the eponym थी bestowed by Jean-Martin charcot ( 1825–1893 ) on निमित्त of उसके निवासी, जॉर्जेस अल्बर्ट Édouard ब्रूटस गाइल्स de la tourette ( 1859–1904 ), a French चिकित्सक और neurologist, who published an account of नौ patients with tourette 's in 1885.
Sunbeam बैज.
सनबीम थी a marque पंजीकृत by John Marston Co. Ltd of wolverhampton, England, in 1888.
the company पहला बना साइकिल, then motorcycles and गाड़ियाँ from the लेट 19th सदी जबतक about 1936, और लागू the marque to all तीन forms of परिवहन.
The कम्पनी भी manufactured aero इंजन in the First संसार War और 647 वायुयान during the दूसरी संसार युद्ध.
a Sunbeam was the पहला British car to जीत a ग्रैंड Prix रेस, and नियत a क्रमांक of land speed रिकॉर्ड.
The company गई into receivership in 1935 और थी खरीदा by the rootes समूह, जिससे continued to उपयोग the सनबीम marque.
फॉक्स News Channel ( fnc ), भी ज्ञात as फॉक्स न्यूज, is a केबल news चैनल स्वामित्व by the फॉक्स entertainment समूह, a subsidiary of News निगम.
as of April 2009, the चैनल थी available to 102 million households in the United राज्य और to दर्शक internationally, प्रसारण primarily from इसके New York studios.
the चैनल was created by australian-american मीडिया mogul Rupert Murdoch, जो नियुक्त former एनबीसी कार्यपालिका Roger Ailes as इसके founding सीईओ.
it शुभारम्भ on October 7, 1996 to 17 million केबल सदस्य.
It grew दौरान the लेट 1990s and 2000s to become the प्रबल cable न्यूज संजाल in the United राज्य.
आलोचकों have stated that Fox News Channel promotes रूढ़िवादी राजनैतिक स्थितियाँ और biased reporting.
Commentators, न्यूज anchors, और पत्रकारों at Fox News Channel have responded कि न्यूज रिपोर्टिंग और political commentary operate independently of each अन्य, और have denied कोई पूर्वाग्रह in news reporting.
the mandibular पहला molar or six-year molar is the दाँत located distally ( away इससे the midline of the फेस ) इससे दोनो the mandibular दूसरी premolars of the मुँह but mesial ( toward the midline of the फेस ) इससे दोनो mandibular दूसरी molars.
it is located on the mandibular ( lower ) मेहराब of the मुँह, and generally opposes the maxillary ( upper ) पहला molars and the ऊर्ध्वहनु 2nd premolar in normal क्लास I occlusion.
The function of इस molar is समान to कि of all molars in लिहाज़ to grinding being the प्रिंसिपल कार्रवाई during mastication, commonly known as chewing.
There are प्रायः पाँच well-developed पुलिन on mandibular पहला molars : two on the buccal ( side nearest the गाल ), two lingual ( पक्ष निकटतम the जीभ ), and एक distal.
There are ग्रेट मतभेद between the deciduous ( baby ) mandibular molars और those of the permanent mandibular molars, भी though their फलन are समान.
The permanent mandibular molars are नहीं माना to have any teeth कि precede it.
despite होने नामित molars, the पतझड़ी molars are followed by permanent premolars.
In the universal प्रणाली of संकेतन, the पतझड़ी mandibular first molars are designated by a अक्षर written in अपरकेस.
the right पतझड़ी mandibular पहला molar is ज्ञात as `` S '', और the बाएँ एक is ज्ञात as `` L ''.
the अंतरराष्ट्रीय संकेतन has a different प्रणाली of संकेतन.
यूँ, the right पतझड़ी mandibular first molar is ज्ञात as `` 84 '', और the left one is known as `` 74 ''.
in the universal system of notation, the स्थाई mandibular first molars are designated by a number.
The right स्थाई mandibular पहला molar is ज्ञात as `` 30 '', and the बाएँ one is ज्ञात as `` 19 ''.
the पामर notation उपयोग a क्रमांक in conjunction with a symbol designating in जिससे quadrant the दाँत is मिला.
लिये इस दाँत, the बाएँ and सही पहला molars would have the वही number, `` 6 '', but the सही एक होता have the प्रतीक, `` ┐ '', over it, जबकि the बाएँ एक होता have, `` ┌ ''.
the international संकेतन रै a different numbering प्रणाली than the previous two, और the right permanent mandibular पहला molar is ज्ञात as `` 46 '', और the बाएँ एक is ज्ञात as `` 36 ''.
mandibular प्राथमिक पहला molars usually have चार गूदा horns.
The पहला molar is usually the पहला स्थाई tooth to erupt और रै वयस्क undertones.
anatomy : the mandibular पहला molar has five cusps : the mesiobuccal ( mb, toward midline और cheek ), mesiolingual ( ML, toward midline and tongue ), distolingual ( DL, दूर from midline and towards जीभ ), distobuccal ( DB, दूर from midline and toward cheek ), और distal ( d, दूर इससे midline ), सूचीबद्ध in अनुक्रम of अवरोहण आकार.
सूचीबद्ध in अनुक्रम of अवरोहण ऊँचाई वे are : ml, dl, df, mf, और D. an आठवीं cusp थी मिला in a प्राथमिक second निम्नतर molar in an Argentinean चाइल्ड.
viewed from the top of the tooth ( occlusal दृश्य ), the mandibular first molar is pentagonal ( पाँच sided ) in shape and tapers toward the lingual, साथ the sides होने the buccal सतह, the mesial सतह, the lingual surface, distal सतह, और the distobuccal सतह.
The occlusal surface रै चार grooves.
the सेंट्रल नाली is not सीधा लकिन runs bas the बीच of the दाँत mesially to distally और contains चार गड्ढों ( mesial, central, सेंट्रल, और distal ).
The distobuccal नाली रनों इससे the distal गड्ढे in the central नाली distobuccally separating the distal और distobuccal cusps.
The lingual groove रनों इससे the अधिक distal of the central गड्ढों in the सेंट्रल नाली toward the lingual सतह between the mesiolingual और distolingual पुलिन.
the buccal नाली runs इससे the more mesial of the central गड्ढों in the central नाली toward the buccal surface between the mesiobuccal and distobuccal पुलिन समाप्ति in the buccal गड्ढे.
the portion of the central groove between the सेंट्रल pits is termed the लुईस offset और is अनिवार्य to खाता लिये the locations of the buccal and lingual डोले ( buccal नाली होने अधिक mesial than the lingual groove जबकि वे हैं समानांतर ).
From the buccal ( buccal दृश्य ), दो जड़ें are present.
the distal रूट is generally straighter, although both प्रायः have a पतला distal गोलाई.
the heights of रुपरेखा on the mesial और distal सम्पर्क the सटा दांत and हैं located at the junction of the occlusal और मध्य तिहाई of the क्राउन.
The फ्लोरिडा विधानमंडल is the दो घरों कि अधिनियम as the राज्य विधानमंडल of the u.S. राज्य of फ्लोरिडा.
the Florida संविधान राज्य कि `` the legislative power of the राज्य shall be vested in a legislature of the राज्य of फ्लोरिडा, '' रचित of a Senate and हाउस of Representatives.
The विधानमंडल is seated at the फ्लोरिडा राज्य कैपिटल in tallahassee.
stained कांच depiction of Daniel interceding with arioch, the किंग 's guard.
Arioch था महरूम charged साथ killing all the wise men बाद they were नहीं able to interpret nebuchadnezzar 's dream.
डेनियल 2 is the second chapter of the Book of डेनियल in the यहूदी Bible.
the अध्याय 's source टेक्स्ट is predominantly लिखा in Aramaic.
according to the text, Nebuchadnezzar is the किंग of बाबुल who is troubled by his सपनो.
He demands an निर्वचन for his dreams or होगा have his mystic interpreters executed.
डेनियल seeks दैवी Wisdom to interpret the king 's सपनो और गुणगान परमेश्वर with a छोटी psalm.
God देता Daniel a दृष्टि in the रात्रि to खुलासा the king 's सपना.
समर्थ to satisfy the किंग, Daniel is प्रचारित over the पूरे प्रांत of बाबुल.
एक Comcast Center, the headquarters of comcast in फिलाडेल्फिया, PA.
the old comcast logo from 1969 to 1999, जब it was replaced साथ the crescent लोगो.
the comcast Corporation is an American प्रदाता of entertainment, information और communications products and services.
It is the largest cable ऑपरेटर, एक of the biggest द्रव्यमान media, घर अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाता, और तीसरा largest घर टेलीफोन सेवा provider in the United States, providing cable टेलीविज़न, broadband अंतरजाल, टेलीफोन service और in कुछ areas घर सुरक्षा ( including burglar सचेतक, surveillance कैमरे, आग सचेतक प्रणालियों और घर स्वचालन ) to दोनो आवासीय और वाणिज्यिक ग्राहक in 40 राज्य and the ज़िला of कोलंबिया.
the कम्पनी is headquartered in फिलाडेल्फिया, Pennsylvania.
in 2011, comcast acquired a 51 % majority stake in मीडिया conglomerate nbcuniversal from ge in जनवरी 2011, और began the process of purchasing the बाकी 49 % on फ़रवरी 12, 2013, at a लागत of $ 16.7 billion.
it समाप्त the खरीदें on कूच 19, 2013.
comcast also रै significant पकड़कर in several cable संजाल ( including e !
entertainment टेलीविज़न, स्टाइल संजाल, g4, the Golf चैनल और एनबीसी खेल संजाल ), वितरण ( ThePlatform ), और सम्बन्धित businesses.
Comcast रै महरूम the विषय of criticism लिये activities सहित इसके stance on net neutrality, as खूब as poor results on customer संतोष surveys.
porcupines are rodents with a कोट of शार्प कांटे, or quills, कि बचाव और camouflage उन्हें इससे परभक्षी.
वे are indigenous to the Americas, दक्षिणी Asia, and अफ़्रीकी.
Porcupines हैं the तीसरा largest of the rodents, पीछे the capybara और the बीवर.
सबसे porcupines हैं परिचय long, with an long tail.
Weighing, वे are rounded, large और slow.
porcupines आइये in various shades of brown, धूसर, और the unusual श्वेत.
Porcupines ' spiny सुरक्षा resembles that of the unrelated erinaceomorph hedgehogs और monotreme echidnas.
the आम porcupine is a herbivore.
it eats leaves, herbs, टहनियों and ग्रीन plants जैसे skunk गोभी and clover और in the शीत it may खा छाल.
The उत्तर अमरीकी साही प्रायः climbs trees to ढूँढें खाना.
the अफ़्रीकी porcupine is not a climber और forages on the मैदान.
it is ज़्यादातर nocturnal, but होगा sometimes forage for खाना in the day.
porcupines have become a pest in Kenya और हैं खाया as a कोमलता.
The name साही आता from Middle French porc espin ( spined pig ).
a क्षेत्रीय American नाम लिये the animal is quill pig.
First पेज of us पेटेंट 129,843 for Improvement in lubricators for steam-engines
इलियास J. मैककॉय ( may 2, 1844 – October 10, 1929 ) थी a black canadian-american आविष्कारक और इंजीनियर, जो थी notable लिये his 57 u.S. patents, सबसे to do साथ lubrication of steam इंजन.
born free in कनाडा, he लौटे as a five-year-old चाइल्ड साथ उसके परिवार to the संयुक्त राज्य in 1847, जहाँ he जिया लिये the rest of उसके जीवन और became a us citizen.
होंडा fcx Clarity, a hydrogen ईंधन कोशिका demonstration गाडी introduced in 2008
A हाइड्रोजन vehicle is a गाडी that उपयोग hydrogen as इसके onboard fuel लिये motive शक्ति.
Hydrogen वाहनों शामिल हाइड्रोजन fueled स्पेस rockets, as खूब as automobiles और other transportation वाहनों.
The शक्ति पौधे of ऐसे वाहनों बदलें the chemical उर्जा of hydrogen to mechanical उर्जा either by burning hydrogen in an आतंरिक दहन इंजन, or by reacting हाइड्रोजन साथ ऑक्सीजन in a fuel कोशिका to चलाएं इलेक्ट्रिक motors.
फैली उपयोग of hydrogen for fueling परिवहन is a key तत्व of a प्रस्तावित हाइड्रोजन economy.
हाइड्रोजन ईंधन does नहीं occur naturally on धरती and यूँ is नहीं an उर्जा सोर्स ; rather it is an उर्जा carrier.
It is सबसे अक्सर बना from methane or other चट्टान fuels, लकिन it can be produced using स्त्रोत ( such as हवा, सौर, or नाभिकीय ) कि are intermittent, too व्याप्त or too cumbersome to directly propel वाहनों.
Integrated wind-to-hydrogen plants, using electrolysis of जल, are exploring technologies to deliver costs कम enough, and quantities ग्रेट पर्याप्त, to compete साथ परंपरागत energy sources.
अनेक companies हैं working to develop technologies that might efficiently exploit the संभावित of हाइड्रोजन उर्जा लिये mobile uses.
The attraction of using हाइड्रोजन as an energy currency is that, if hydrogen is prepared बगैर using चट्टान ईंधन inputs, गाडी propulsion would नहीं contribute to carbon dioxide emissions.
the drawbacks of hydrogen use हैं ऊँची capital cost, कम energy content per ईकाई आवाज़, high tankage weights, बहुत ऊँची भंडार vessel pressures, the भंडार, transportation and filling of गैसीय or liquid हाइड्रोजन in vehicles, the large investment in infrastructure कि would be जरूरी to ईंधन वाहनों, and the inefficiency of उत्पादन प्रक्रियाओं.
sacramento is the पूंजी city of the U.S. state of California और the seat of सरकारी of sacramento काउंटी.
it is located at the संगम of the Sacramento नदी और the अमरीकी नदी in the northern portion of कैलिफ़ोर्निया 's expansive Central Valley.
With an अनुमानित 2011 population of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest नगर in कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the 35th largest city in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Sacramento is the core सांस्कृतिक और आर्थिक center of the sacramento महानगर क्षेत्रफल which includes सात counties साथ an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123.
इसके महानगर क्षेत्रफल is the चौथी largest in कैलिफ़ोर्निया बाद the वृहद लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल, सैन Francisco खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल, और the सैन Diego महानगर क्षेत्रफल, as खूब as the 25th largest in the संयुक्त States.
sacramento was cited by Time पत्रिका as अमेरिका 's most ethnically और racially integrated नगर in 2002.
Sacramento became a नगर through the efforts of the स्विस immigrant जॉन Sutter, sr., उसके son जॉन Sutter, Jr., और जेम्स W. मार्शल.
sacramento grew जल्दी thanks to the सुरक्षा of sutter 's Fort, जिससे थी established by sutter in 1839.
दौरान the California सुनहरा Rush, Sacramento was a प्रमुख distribution पाइंट, a commercial और agricultural बीच, and a टर्मिनस लिये वैगन trains, stagecoaches, riverboats, the टेलीग्राफ, the टट्टू एक्स्प्रेस, and the पहला Transcontinental Railroad.
कैलिफ़ोर्निया State विश्वविद्यालयों, sacramento, अधिक commonly ज्ञात as sacramento राज्य or सैक राज्य, is the largest लोकल विश्वविद्यालयों.
it is one of the twenty-three campuses of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों system.
drexel विश्वविद्यालयों Sacramento is स्तिथ in शहर, Sacramento.
University of the Pacific 's mcgeorge स्कूल of विधि is स्तिथ in the ओक Park पड़ोस.
in जोड, the University of California, डेविस is located in आसपास डेविस, वेस्ट of the पूंजी.
The uc डेविस Medical बीच, a world-renowned शोध hospital, is located in the नगर of sacramento.
the ठहराना स्टोर is a कड़ी of खुदरा स्टोर्स स्वामित्व और संचालित by ठहराना inc., dealing in computers and उपभोक्ता electronics.
the स्टोर्स बेचें मैकिंटोश निजी कंप्यूटर, तन्त्र, ipods, ipads, iPhones, third-party accessories, and other consumer electronics ऐसे as ठहराना TV.
कुछ ऊँची प्रोफ़ाइल stores feature a थिएटर लिये प्रस्तुतियों और वर्कशॉप और a Studio for प्रशिक्षण साथ Apple products ; सब stores प्रस्ताव a प्रतिभाशाली बार लिये technical support and repairs, as खूब as फ़्री workshops available to the public.
Under the नेतृत्व of रॉन Johnson, the पूर्व Senior Vice अध्यक्ष of Retail परिचालन, the Apple स्टोर्स have, according to an article in the New यॉर्क टाइम्स, महरूम जिम्मेदार लिये `` [ turning ] the उबाऊ कंप्यूटर बिक्री floor into a sleek playroom filled साथ gadgets ''.
, ठहराना रै 405 स्टोर्स विश्वव्यापी, with global sales of अरब in merchandise in 2011, and वे lead the संयुक्त राज्य retail मार्केट in terms of बिक्री प्रति ईकाई क्षेत्रफल.
स्टीवन पॉल `` Steve '' कार्य ( ; फ़रवरी 24, 1955 – October 5, 2011 ) was an American entrepreneur and inventor, बेहतरीन known as the co-founder, chairman, और सीईओ of ठहराना inc.
Through Apple, he was widely recognized as a charismatic पायोनियर of the निजी computer क्रान्ति और लिये उसके influential career in the कंप्यूटर और उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स फ़ील्ड, transforming `` एक उद्योग बाद another, from computers और स्मार्टफ़ोन to music और फिल्मों... ''
Jobs भी co-founded and परोसा as मुख्य कार्यपालिका of पिक्चर्स एनिमेशन Studios ; he became a सदस्य of the फलक of निर्देशकों of The वॉल्ट Disney Company in 2006, when डिज़्नी acquired पिक्चर्स.
Jobs was among the पहला to देखिए the वाणिज्यिक संभावित of xerox PARC 's चूहा -ड्राइवn graphical उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस, जिससे led to the creation of the Apple लिसा और, एक year later, the मैकिंटोश.
he also played a role in introducing the laserwriter, one of the पहला widely available laser मुद्रक, to the मार्केट.
After a शक्ति संघर्ष साथ the board of निर्देशकों in 1985, कार्य बाएँ ठहराना और संस्थापित NeXT, a कंप्यूटर platform विकास company specializing in the higher-education और कारोबार बाज़ार.
in 1986, he acquired the computer graphics division of लुकासफ़िल्म, which थी spun off as पिक्चर्स.
he was credited in खिलौना स्टोरी ( 1995 ) as an कार्यपालिका producer.
He परोसा as CEO और बहुमत shareholder जबतक Disney 's purchase of पिक्चर्स in 2006.
In 1996, बाद Apple था failed to उद्धार its ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली, copland, gil amelio turned to NeXT Computer, और the NeXTSTEP मंच became the foundation लिये the मैक os x.
Jobs लौटे to Apple as an advisor, और took control of the company as an interim सीईओ.
कार्य brought Apple from निकट दिवालियापन to profitability by 1998.
as the new सीईओ of the company, Jobs oversaw the विकास of the imac, itunes, iPod, iphone, and ipad, और on the सेवाएं पक्ष, the कम्पनी 's ठहराना Retail स्टोर्स, itunes Store और the app स्टोर.
The कामयाबी of these उत्पाद और सेवाएं provided अनेक years of stable वित्तीय returns, and propelled Apple to become the world 's सबसे valuable सरेआम traded company in 2011.
The reinvigoration of the कम्पनी is regarded by अनेक टीकाकारों as one of the greatest turnarounds in business इतिहास.
in 2003, कार्य थी diagnosed साथ a अग्न्याशय neuroendocrine ट्यूमर.
Though it थी initially treated, he reported a hormone असंतुलन, underwent a जिगर प्रत्यारोपण in 2009, and appeared progressively thinner as his health declined.
on चिकित्सा छोड़ लिये most of 2011, कार्य resigned in August कि year, और was निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष of the फलक.
He died of respiratory arrest related to उसके metastatic tumor on अक्तूबर 5, 2011.
कार्य प्राप्त a क्रमांक of honors और public मान्यता for his influence in the प्रौद्योगिकी and म्यूज़िक industries.
he रै been referred to as `` legendary '', a `` futurist '' or बस `` visionary '', और has महरूम वर्णित as the `` पिता of the Digital क्रान्ति '', a `` master of innovation '', और a `` डिज़ाइन perfectionist ''.
प्रवेश to section ( 52 ) of the कोलोसियम, साथ numerals स्टिल दृश्य
Roman numerals, the न्यूमेरिक system in ancient रोम, उपयोग combinations of अक्षर इससे the Latin वर्णमाला to signify values.
the numbers 1 to 10 can be expressed in रोमन numerals as follows:
और.
The रोमन numeral system is a cousin of etruscan numerals.
उपयोग of Roman numerals continued after the decline of the Roman साम्राज्य.
From the 14th century on, रोमन numerals began to be replaced in सबसे contexts by more convenient hindu-arabic numerals ; however इस प्रक्रम थी क्रमिक, और the उपयोग of Roman numerals in कुछ नाबालिग applications continues to इस day.
Effective नाभिकीय चार्ज Diagram
The effective nuclear चार्ज ( often symbolize as or Z* ) is the net धनात्मक चार्ज अनुभवी by an इलेक्ट्रॉन in a multi-electron atom.
The पद `` प्रभावी '' is used because the shielding effect of negatively charged electrons रोकता उच्चतर orbital electrons from experiencing the पूरा नाभिकीय charge by the repelling effect of inner-layer electrons.
the प्रभावी nuclear चार्ज अनुभवी by the outer shell electron is भी called the कोर charge.
It is संभावित to determine the strength of the नाभिकीय चार्ज by looking at the ऑक्सीकरण number of the अणु.
इस is a list of एपीसोड इससे the Discovery चैनल श्रेणी, Storm Chasers.
a ग्रामीण stretch of i-5, with दो lanes in each दिशा अलग by a विशाल grassy मध्य, और साथ cross-traffic सीमित to overpasses और underpasses
The ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर National प्रणाली of अंतरराज्यीय और Defense Highways ( commonly ज्ञात as the अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग प्रणाली, अंतरराज्यीय फ्रीवे System, Interstate प्रणाली, or simply the Interstate ) is a संजाल of freeways कि फ़ॉर्म a part of the नेशनल Highway प्रणाली of the संयुक्त States.
the प्रणाली is named लिये President Dwight D. आइज़नहावर, who championed इसके गठन.
निर्माण थी authorized by the संघीय सहायता राजमार्ग अधिनियम of 1956, and the असली portion थी completed 35 years बाद.
The संजाल has चूंकि महरूम extended, और, it had a कुल लंबाई of, बनाना it the संसार 's second longest after China 's., परिचय one-quarter of all vehicle मील driven in the country उपयोग the Interstate system.
the cost of निर्माण रै महरूम estimated at $ 425 अरब ( in 2006 डॉलर ), making it the `` largest public works program चूंकि the पिरामिडों ``.
the प्रणाली रै contributed in shaping the United States into a संसार आर्थिक महाशक्ति and a highly industrialized nation.
.eu is the country code top-level domain ( cctld ) लिये the यूरोपीय संघ ( EU ).
Launched on 7 दिसम्बर 2005, the डोमेन is available लिये संगठनों in और residents of eu member states.
the tld is administered by EURid, a consortium originally consisting of the नेशनल cctld registry ऑपरेटर of बेल्जियम, Sweden, और Italy, joined बाद by the national रजिस्ट्री ऑपरेटर of the Czech गणतंत्र.
Trademark owners were समर्थ to submit पंजीकरण through a sunrise काल, in an प्रयत्न to prevent cybersquatting.
पूरा पंजीकरण started on 7 अप्रैल 2006.
meister means master in जर्मनी ( as in निपुण craftsman, or as an honorific शीर्षक ऐसे as meister Eckhart ).
The शब्द is akin to maestro.
In खेल, meister is प्रयुक्त for the current नेशनल, European or संसार champion ( Deutscher Meister, *europameister, Weltmeister ).
Many modern दिन जर्मनी police forces उपयोग the शीर्षक meister.
During the Second World War, meister थी the उच्चतम आयोजिक rank of the ordnungspolizei.
meister रै been borrowed into अंग्रेज़ी कठबोली, जहाँ it is प्रयुक्त in यौगिक nouns.
a व्यक्ति referred to as “meister” is एक जो रै extensive सैद्धांतिक ज्ञान and practical कौशल in उसके व्यवसायिक, business, or कुछ other kind of work or activity.
For उदाहरण, a “puzzle-meister” होता be someone अत्यधिक skilled at solving पहेलियाँ.
ये neologisms sometimes have a व्यंग्यात्मक intent ( for उदाहरण, “stubble-meister” लिये someone साथ a short, neat दाढ़ी or “crier-meister” लिये किसी जो प्रायः cries ).
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is an अमरीकी live-action children 's टेलीविज़न श्रेणी about teenagers साथ super-powers, आधारित on the 16th किश्त of the जापानी सुपर sentai मताधिकार, kyōryū sentai zyuranger.
Both the दिखाएँ और इसके सम्बन्धित merchandise देखी unbridled overnight success, बनने a staple of 1990s पॉप संस्कृति in mere महीने.
अंतर्गत the original नाम, `` Mighty Morphin Power रेंजरों '' the series भागा इससे 1993 to 1995 and शाखित the विशेषता film mighty morphin शक्ति रेंजरों : the फिल्म.
the दूसरी और तीसरा seasons of the show खींचा on footage और तत्व इससे the सुपर Sentai श्रेणी Gosei Sentai dairanger और निंजा Sentai kakuranger क्रमशः, though the zyuranger costumes were स्टिल प्रयुक्त for the five प्रमुख रेंजरों और अनेक नियमित villains.
तभी the mecha और the kiba रेंजर costume ( worn by the श्वेत रेंजर ) यहूद retained from dairanger लिये the दूसरी ऋतु, जबकि तभी the mecha from kakuranger यहूद featured in the third ऋतु.
however the kakuranger वेशभूषा यहूद बाद प्रयुक्त for the शीर्षक वर्ण of the mini-series, Mighty morphin एलियन Rangers.
the श्रेणी was उत्पादित by mmpr Productions, distributed by Saban entertainment, and aired on फॉक्स Kids.
the दिखाएँ 's merchandise थी produced and वितरित by बंदाई Entertainment.
in 1996, the series थी rebranded as the शक्ति रेंजरों मताधिकार ; renaming the श्रेणी every year after, और using costumes, props, and फुटेज इससे subsequent सुपर sentai श्रेणी, as well as बदलना the डाल and कथानक.
While an overarching कथानक होता continue जबतक शक्ति Rangers खोया आकाशगंगा, subsequent श्रेणी बाद mmpr हैं नहीं सिक्वेल or spin-offs in the परंपरागत sense.
In 2010, a re-version of mighty morphin Power रेंजरों, साथ a नई लोगो, कॉमिक book-referenced graphics, और अतिरिक्त alternative खास प्रभाव, was broadcast on ABC Kids, and बंदाई produced ब्रांड नई खिलौने to coincide साथ the श्रेणी.
एडगर allan Poe ( born Edgar पो ; जनवरी 19, 1809 – अक्तूबर 7, 1849 ) was an अमरीकी लेखक, कवि, एडिटर और literary critic, considered भाग of the अमरीकी रोमांटिक Movement.
Best known लिये his tales of mystery और the घोर, Poe was एक of the earliest अमरीकी practitioners of the छोटी स्टोरी and is generally माना the आविष्कारक of the detective fiction genre.
He is further credited साथ contributing to the emerging genre of science fiction.
he थी the first well-known अमरीकी लेखक to कोशिश to earn a जीना through लिखने अलोन, resulting in a financially difficult जीवन और career.
he थी born as Edgar Poe in Boston, Massachusetts ; he थी orphaned यंग when उसके mother died shortly बाद his पिता abandoned the परिवार.
Poe was लिया in by जॉन and Frances Allan, of रिचमंड, वर्जिनिया, but वे never formally अपनाया him.
He attended the विश्वविद्यालयों of वर्जिनिया लिये एक semester but बाएँ due to lack of money.
After enlisting in the Army और बाद failing as an अधिकारी 's cadet at West पाइंट, पो parted तरीके साथ the Allans.
His publishing करियर began humbly, साथ an बेनाम collection of कविताएं, tamerlane and अन्य कविताएं ( 1827 ), credited only to `` a bostonian ''.
पो switched his फ़ोकस to गद्य और खर्च the next अनेक सालो working लिये literary जर्नल्स और periodicals, बनने known लिये उसके own style of साहित्यिक आलोचना.
उसके work मजबूर उसे to move among अनेक cities, including Baltimore, Philadelphia, and New यॉर्क नगर.
in Baltimore in 1835, he शादीशुदा वर्जिनिया clemm, his 13-year-old cousin.
In January 1845 Poe published his poem, `` The रेवेन ``, to instant कामयाबी.
उसके बीवी died of tuberculosis दो years बाद इसके प्रकाशन.
He began planning to उपज उसके अपना journal, the penn ( बाद renamed The स्टाइलस ), though he died पहले it could be उत्पादित.
on October 7, 1849, at age 40, Poe died in बाल्टीमोर ; the cause of उसके death is अनजान और रै महरूम variously attributed to दारू, दिमाग जमघट, cholera, दवाएँ, दिल disease, rabies, आत्महत्या, तपेदिक, और other agents.
पो और उसके works influenced साहित्य in the संयुक्त राज्य और around the संसार, as well as in specialized फ़ील्ड, ऐसे as cosmology and क्रिप्टोग्राफी.
Poe and his work appear throughout लोकप्रिय संस्कृति in साहित्य, music, films, और टेलीविज़न.
a number of his घरों हैं समर्पित संग्रहालय आज.
the Mystery Writers of अमेरिका उपस्थित an सालाना award ज्ञात as the एडगर पुरस्कार लिये distinguished कार्य in the रहस्य genre.
शेर हैं obligate carnivores ; they require up to seven kilograms ( 15 पाउंड ) of मांस प्रति day.
A प्रमुख component of their diet is the flesh of large mammals, जैसे इस अफ़्रीकी buffalo.
A carnivore ( ) अर्थ 'meat eater ' ( लैटिन, caro अर्थ 'meat ' or 'flesh ' and vorare अर्थ 'to devour ' ) is an सजीव that गर्भाशयी इसके उर्जा and nutrient requirements from a आहार consisting मुख्यतः or exclusively of एनिमल ऊतक, whether through predation or scavenging.
पशु कि निर्भर solely on animal flesh for their nutrient आवश्यकताएँ are माना carnivores while those कि भी consume non-animal food हैं माना carnivores.
omnivores भी consume both एनिमल और non-animal खाना, and अलावा इससे the more सामान्य definition, there is no clearly पारिभाषित ratio of संयंत्र to animal material कि होता distinguish a facultative carnivore इससे an सर्वाहारी.
a carnivore that sits at the शीर्ष of the foodchain is an apex परभक्षी.
पौधे कि कैप्चर and digest कीट हैं called मांसाहारी plants.
Similarly, fungi कि कैप्चर microscopic पशु are often called मांसाहारी fungi.
The फीफा World Cup, प्रायः बस the World Cup, is an अंतरराष्ट्रीय association फ़ुटबॉल competition contested by the वरिष्ठ men 's नेशनल teams of the सदस्यों of Fédération internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ), the खेल 's वैश्विक शासी body.
the चैंपियनशिप रै महरूम awarded प्रत्येक four सालो चूंकि the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1930, मगर in 1942 and 1946 जब it was not आयोजित क्युकी of the Second संसार युद्ध.
the वर्तमान champions are Spain, जो जीती the 2010 टूर्नामेंट.
the वर्तमान स्वरूप of the टूर्नामेंट involves 32 टीमों competing लिये the शीर्षक at venues भीतर the मेजबान nation ( s ) over a period of परिचय a month ; इस phase is प्रायः called the संसार कप Finals.
A योग्यता phase, which फिलहाल takes प्लेस over the preceding तीन सालो, is used to determine जिससे टीमों qualify for the tournament साथ साथ the मेजबान nation ( s ).
The 19 संसार कप tournaments have महरूम won by आठ अलग national teams.
Brazil have जीती पाँच times, और वे are the तभी team to have played in प्रत्येक टूर्नामेंट.
The अन्य संसार कप विजेता हैं Italy, with four titles ; जर्मनी, with तीन शीर्षक ; अर्जेंटीना और inaugural विजेता Uruguay, with two शीर्षक each ; और England, France, और Spain, with one शीर्षक each.
the World Cup is the world 's सबसे widely viewed sporting इवेंट ; an अनुमानित 715.1 लाख लोगों देखी the final match of the 2006 FIFA World कप आयोजित in जर्मनी.
The next three संसार Cups होगा be hosted by Brazil in 2014, रूस in 2018, और क़तर in 2022.
Heroes is an American विज्ञान fiction टेलीविज़न drama series created by टिम Kring कि appeared on एनबीसी for four सीज़न from सितंबर 25, 2006 through February 8, 2010.
the series tells the कहानियां of ordinary people who discover superhuman abilities, और how ये abilities take प्रभाव in the वर्ण ' lives.
The series emulates the aesthetic स्टाइल and storytelling of अमरीकी comic books, using multi-episode story arcs that निर्माण upon a larger, more encompassing arc.
the श्रेणी was produced by tailwind प्रोडक्शन्स in संघ साथ Universal Media studios.
It was फिल्माया primarily in लॉस एंजिल्स, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
चार complete seasons aired, ending on फ़रवरी 8, 2010.
The critically acclaimed पहला season था a चलाएं of 23 episodes और garnered an औसत of 14.3 million viewers in the United States, receiving the highest दरजा लिये an एनबीसी नाटक प्रीमियर in five years.
The दूसरी season of नायक attracted an average of 13.1 million viewers in the U.S., and marked एनबीसी 's एकमात्र श्रेणी among the शीर्ष 20 क्रमित कार्यक्रम in कुल viewership लिये the 2007–2008 ऋतु.
नायक रै अर्जित a number of पुरस्कार और nominations, including Primetime एमी पुरस्कार, Golden ग्लोब्स, लोगों 's चुनाव Awards और अंग्रेजों अकादमी टेलीविज़न Awards.
An online एक्सटेंशन of the series, नायक 360 Experience, later rebranded as Heroes Evolutions, थी निर्मित to explore the Heroes ब्रह्मांड and provides इनसाइट into the show 's mythology.
अन्य official नायक media include मैगज़ीन, कार्रवाई आंकड़े, tie-in और interactive वेबसाइटों, a mobile खेल, a अनोखा, clothing और other merchandise.
In the पतन of 2008, एनबीसी डिजिटल entertainment released a श्रेणी of ऑनलाइन सामग्री for the summer, सहित more असली web सामग्री, wireless iTV interactivity, ग्राफिक novels उपलब्धियाँ for mobile viewing और webisodes.
NBC घोषित नायक cancellation on May 14, 2010.
Afterward, the संजाल considered बनाना a television खास event to conclude the series ; however, on सितंबर 9, 2010, NBC announced the decision to रोकें any further विकास of the Heroes मताधिकार.
टिम क्रिंग तब suggested कि the व्यापक आधार of नायक storylines अनुमत for the मताधिकार to वापसी for fans, but he किया नहीं बताएँ जब or in what media format.
On अप्रैल 17, 2013, tv लकीर reported कि एमएसएन थी in talks to revive the श्रेणी साथ a नई cast.
जॉन Pierpont `` J. P. ''
Morgan ( अप्रैल 17, 1837 – कूच 31, 1913 ) थी an American फाइनेंसर, बैंकर, लोकसेवक and आर्ट collector who dominated corporate finance और industrial consolidation दौरान उसके time.
in 1892 Morgan arranged the merger of Edison General इलेक्ट्रिक और Thomson-Houston Electric कम्पनी to रूप General इलेक्ट्रिक.
बाद financing the creation of the संघीय स्टील Company, he मिलाया in 1901 साथ the कार्नेगी Steel Company and अनेक अन्य स्टील and आयरन businesses, including Consolidated स्टील and तार कम्पनी स्वामित्व by William edenborn, to रूप the संयुक्त राज्य Steel Corporation.
Morgan died in रोम, इटली, in his sleep in 1913 at the age of 75, leaving उसके सौभाग्य और business to his बेटे, John pierpont `` जोकर '' Morgan, jr., and bequeathing his mansion and विशाल किताब collections to The मॉर्गन पुस्तकालयों & संग्रहालय in New यॉर्क.
at the height of मॉर्गन 's करियर during the जल्दी 1900s, he and उसके partners था वित्तीय निवेश in अनेक large corporations and यहूद accused by critics of controlling the स्वदेश 's ऊँची finance.
he directed the बैंकिंग coalition that रोका the दहशत of 1907.
he was the leading financier of the प्रगतिशील era, and his समर्पण to दक्षता and modernization helped रूपांतरण अमरीकी कारोबार.
This is a सूची of एपीसोड of the टेलीविज़न series.
the एपीसोड यहूद directed by शिगेरू ueda and produced by the Yggdrasil कार्यपालिका Committee जिससे शामिल Xebec और Genco.
The plot of the एपीसोड is set in Tokyo और घूमती around Rin asōgi, an अमर निजी अन्वेषक, as she explores the secrets of आधुनिक और near-future संसार and the अलौकिक events that घेर the fictional समाज of immortals जैसे herself.
वहीँ हैं विशाल समय गैप in the आतंरिक कालक्रम between the पहला पाँच एपीसोड, ranging इससे एक to तीस सालो.
the छह एपीसोड were broadcast मासिक on at-x चैनल in जापानी, between February 3 and जुलाई 6, 2008.
प्रत्येक एपीसोड is 45 मिनट्स long.
दो pieces of theme music हैं used लिये the एपीसोड : the खोलने theme `` Alsatia '' और the समाप्ति थीम `` Cause अस्तव्यस्तता ''.
दोनो were रचित और performed by the जापानी मेटल band galneryus.
the series थी उत्पादित to commemorate the tenth वर्षगांठ of the at-x संजाल it originally aired on.
aerial फ़ोटो of fletc, जहाँ us डिजिटल forensics standards यहूद विकसित in the 1980s और '90s
डिजिटल forensics ( sometimes known as डिजिटल forensic science ) is a शाखा of forensic science encompassing the recovery और investigation of material found in डिजिटल डिवाइस, प्रायः in संबंध to कंप्यूटर अपराधों.
The पद डिजिटल forensics थी originally प्रयुक्त as a synonym for कंप्यूटर forensics लकिन रै विस्तारित to cover छानबीन of all devices capable of storing डिजिटल आंकड़ा.
साथ जड़ें in the निजी कम्प्यूटिंग क्रान्ति of the लेट 1970s और जल्दी '80s, the discipline विकसित in a haphazard manner दौरान the 1990s, और it थी नहीं जबतक the जल्दी 21st century कि national नीतियों उभरा.
Digital forensics investigations have a किस्में of अनुप्रयोग.
the most आम is to support or खण्डन a hypothesis पहले दण्ड or civil ( as भाग of the इलेक्ट्रॉनिक डिस्कवरी process ) न्यायालयों.
Forensics may also विशेषता in the private sector ; such as during internal कॉरपोरेट investigations or intrusion investigation ( a विशेषज्ञ जांच into the nature और extent of an unauthorized संजाल intrusion ).
The तकनीकी aspect of an investigation is विभाजित into अनेक sub-branches, relating to the प्रकार of digital डिवाइस शामिल ; computer forensics, network forensics, forensic आंकड़ा विश्लेषण and मोबाईल device forensics.
The ठेठ forensic प्रक्रम encompasses the seizure, forensic इमेजिंग ( acquisition ) और विश्लेषण of डिजिटल मीडिया और the उत्पादन of a रपट into एकत्रित प्रमाण.
as well as identifying direct evidence of a अपराधों, डिजिटल forensics can be प्रयुक्त to attribute evidence to विशिष्ट संदिग्धों, confirm alibis or कथन, determine intent, पहचानो स्त्रोत ( लिये उदाहरण, in कापीराइट cases ), or authenticate documents.
Investigations हैं much broader in पैमाना than other क्षेत्रों of forensic analysis ( जहाँ the usual उद्देश्य is to provide answers to a श्रेणी of simpler सवाल ) प्रायः involving complex time-lines or hypotheses.
A तुलना of the chromaticities enclosed by कुछ color स्पेसेस.
A रंग मॉडल is an abstract गणितीय मॉडल describing the रास्ता colors can be represented as tuples of संख्याएँ, typically as three or four मान or रंग components ( e.g. RGB and CMYK are color मॉडल ).
however, a color मॉडल with no associated mapping function to an निरपेक्ष color space is a अधिक or less arbitrary color प्रणाली with no कनेक्शन to any globally समझा प्रणाली of color interpretation.
adding a निश्चित मानचित्रण फलन between the color model and a निश्चित सन्दर्भ रंग स्पेस परिणाम in a definite `` footprint '' भीतर the सन्दर्भ color space.
इस `` footprint '' is ज्ञात as a gamut, and, in संयोजन with the color मॉडल, defines a नई color space.
लिये उदाहरण, Adobe RGB और srgb हैं दो अलग निरपेक्ष रंग स्पेसेस, both आधारित on the RGB मॉडल.
In the सबसे generic भाव of the परिभाषा ऊपर, color स्पेसेस can be पारिभाषित बगैर the उपयोग of a color model.
These स्पेसेस, such as Pantone, are in प्रभाव a दिए नियत of names or संख्याएँ जिससे हैं defined by the अस्तित्व of a सम्बन्धित नियत of शारीरिक रंग swatches.
This article focuses on the mathematical मॉडल concept.
मजदूर Day is an अमरीकी संघीय अवकाश observed on the first Monday in September, कि celebrates the आर्थिक और सोशल योगदान of मजदूर.
जीवन बीमे is a contract between an insured ( बीमे policy होल्डर ) और an insurer, जहाँ the insurer promises to pay a designated लाभार्थी a योग of धन ( the `` लाभ '' ) upon the death of the insured व्यक्ति.
Depending on the contract, अन्य events ऐसे as टर्मिनल बीमारी or नाजुक बीमारी may भी ट्रिगर payment.
the नीति होल्डर typically pays a premium, either regularly or as a lump sum.
अन्य खर्च ( ऐसे as अंत्येष्टि खर्च ) हैं also sometimes included in the लाभ.
Life नीतियों हैं विधिक contracts and the terms of the अनुबंध describe the सीमाएं of the insured events.
Specific exclusions are often written into the अनुबंध to सीमा the liability of the insurer ; आम उदाहरण हैं claims relating to suicide, धोखाधड़ी, युद्ध, riot और सिविल commotion.
life-based contracts tend to पतन into दो प्रमुख categories:
Protection नीतियों – designed to provide a लाभ in the इवेंट of निर्दिष्ट event, typically a lump sum भुगतान.
a आम form of इस डिज़ाइन is term बीमे.
Investment policies – जहाँ the main उद्देश्य is to facilitate the विकास of पूंजी by नियमित or single प्रीमियम.
Common forms ( in the US ) are whole जीवन, सार्वभौमिक life और variable जीवन नीतियों.
{ { Infobox Holiday
चाइनीज New साल
9 – 12 February ( Vietnam )
Mitzi gaynor Donahue ( born may 2, 1962 in yorba Linda, Orange काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया ) is an American actress, भी credited and अधिक popularly known as Mitzi kapture.
Kapture began उसके करियर in films, सबसे of which यहूद not विशाल commercial सफलताओं.
She गई on to मेक a few टेलीविज़न अतिथि दिखावे ( MacGyver, 1st & Ten, and as a contestant on The $ 100,000 पिरामिड ) पहले वो gained अंतरराष्ट्रीय exposure साथ उसके पहला major टेलीविज़न role as सार्जेंट रीता ली Lance in the टेलीविज़न श्रेणी रेशा stalkings.
kapture 's role as रीता, the अन्य half of the two `` sams '' लिये almost 5 सालो, cemented उसके लोकप्रियता.
युग्म साथ Rob estes who निभाई सार्जेंट क्रिस lorenzo, kapture gained वैश्विक मान्यता along with उसके costar since the show थी broadcast in अनेक देशों.
Sergeant तलवार आखिरकार became लेफ्टिनेंट तलवार by the समय Kapture left the श्रेणी in 1995 to have उसके first चाइल्ड मैडिसन.
दौरान उसके time साथ the series, Kapture briefly सत in the director 's chair, for two episodes.
वो थी interviewed for the रेशा stalkings Season 1 dvd which was distributed by Anchor खाड़ी Entertainment और released in सितंबर 2004.
After a छोटी अंतराल इससे the स्क्रीन following उसके निकास इससे रेशा Stalkings, Kapture लौटे in 1997 to the छोटी स्क्रीन और USA Network.
She निभाई सीसे roles in two यूएसए Pictures मूल telemovies, Perfect Crime ( based on a सच्चा स्टोरी, भी पुकारा छुपा और तलाश : the Joanne जेन्सेन स्टोरी ), जिससे also स्ट्रक्चर चमेली guy और उसके अंगरक्षक.
वो later starred in a few अन्य स्वतंत्र film projects and थिएटर प्रोडक्शन्स and had several टेलीविज़न अतिथि appearances.
Kapture also था a पुनरावर्ती role on बेवाच as एलेक्सिस Ryker.
She played अनीता होजेस on The Young और the Restless from 2002 through 2004, जहाँ she was credited as Mitzi kapture Donahue, and स्ट्रक्चर in the made-for-tv फिल्म रात्रि of आतंक which premiered कूच 26, 2006 on आजीवन Network.
Her नवीनतम is a supporting भूमिका in परमेश्वर 's कानों, released in 2007.
Kapture is the official हस्ती प्रवक्ता लिये the xeroderma pigmentosum Society.
The Xbox 360 is the दूसरी वीडियो खेल कंसोल विकसित by and उत्पादित for Microsoft और the successor to the Xbox.
The एक्सबॉक्स 360 competes with Sony 's PlayStation 3 और Nintendo 's वी as भाग of the seventh generation of वीडियो खेल consoles.
As of सितंबर 30, 2012, 70 लाख Xbox 360 consoles have been बेची worldwide.
the एक्सबॉक्स 360 was officially अनावरण on एमटीवी on may 12, 2005, साथ विस्तृत लॉन्च और खेल सूचना divulged बाद that month at the इलेक्ट्रॉनिक entertainment एक्सपो ( e3 ).
the console बेची आउट completely upon रिलीज in सब regions मगर in जापानी.
अनेक प्रमुख features of the Xbox 360 हैं इसके एकीकृत Xbox Live service कि allows खिलाड़ी to compete online ; download आर्केड खेल, खेल demos, trailers, tv shows, म्यूज़िक और फिल्मों ; और इसके खिड़कियाँ मीडिया बीच मल्टीमीडिया सामर्थ्य.
The एक्सबॉक्स सजीव also offers access to विभिन्न ( प्रायः region-specific ) third-party media स्ट्रीमिंग applications.
at their E3 presentation on जून 14, 2010, microsoft घोषित a redesigned Xbox 360 कि would ship on the वही day.
the redesigned console is slimmer than the previous एक्सबॉक्स 360 मॉडल और सुविधाएँ एकीकृत 802.11 b/g/n wi-fi, toslink S/PDIF optical audio आउटपुट, पाँच usb 2.0 पोर्ट ( compared to the तीन from पुरानी versions ) and a खास aux port.
पुरानी models of the एक्सबॉक्स 360 have since महरूम discontinued.
the पहला new कंसोल to be released सुविधाएँ a 250 gb मुश्किल ड्राइव, जबकि a बाद, less महंगी sku सुविधाएँ 4 gb आतंरिक भंडार.
backpack may भी refer to a 2001 novel by एमिली barr
a आधुनिक backpack
Swiss army backpack ca. 1960
Integrated तुमको फ़्रेम.
A backpack ( भी called रूकसाक, knapsack, packsack, पैक ) is, in इसके सरलतम रूप, a cloth sack carried on एक 's वापस और secured साथ two straps that go over the कन्धों, लकिन there can be अपवाद.
lightweight types of backpacks हैं sometimes worn on तभी एक shoulder डोरी.
Backpacks हैं प्रायः preferred to हैंडबैग for carrying भारी loads or carrying any sort of उपकरण, because of the limited क्षमता to carry भारी weights लिये long अवधि of time in the हैंड्स.
Large backpacks, used to carry loads over 10 kg ( 22 lbs ), usually offload the largest भाग ( up to परिचय 90 % ) of their वज़न onto padded हिप बेल्ट, leaving the shoulder straps mainly लिये stabilising the load.
इस improves the potential to carry heavy loads, as the कूल्हों are stronger than the कन्धों, and भी increases चपलता और संतुलन, चूंकि the लोड यात्राएँ nearer the wearer 's अपना बीच of द्रव्यमान.
in प्राचीन टाइम्स, the backpack was प्रयुक्त as a means to carry the शिकारी 's larger खेल और अन्य प्रकार of prey और as a रास्ता of easier transport लिये अन्य सामग्री.
in the मामले of larger hunts, the hunters would dismember their शिकार and वितरित the pieces of the एनिमल around, प्रत्येक एक पैकिंग the मांस into अनेक wrappings और then into बैग which वे लगाई on to their backs.
the bag itself was बना up of अलग animal छुपा और स्किन ( depending on कया sorts of पशु यहूद in the क्षेत्रफल ) और sewn together by the आंतों of कहा पशु, which यहूद woven साथ tightly to मेक a sturdy thread-like material.
Mexico ( ; ; ), officially the संयुक्त मैक्सिकन States ( ), is a federal संवैधानिक गणतंत्र in उत्तर अमेरिका.
It is bordered on the north by the United States ; on the दक्षिण और वेस्ट by the प्रशांत समंदर ; on the southeast by Guatemala, Belize, and the caribbean Sea ; और on the east by the Gulf of मैक्सिको.
covering लगभग two लाख वर्गाकार किलोमीटर ( over 760,000 sq mi ), मैक्सिको is the पांचवां largest country in the americas by total क्षेत्रफल and the 13th largest स्वतंत्र स्वदेश in the world.
With an estimated population of over 113 लाख, it is the world 's eleventh most populous country और the most populous spanish-speaking country.
Mexico is a संघ comprising thirty-one राज्य and a संघीय ज़िला, the capital नगर.
in pre-Columbian मैक्सिको अनेक संस्कृतियों matured into उन्नत civilizations ऐसे as the Olmec, the toltec, the teotihuacan, the Zapotec, the Maya और the Aztec पहले first सम्पर्क with europeans.
in 1521, स्पेन conquered and colonized the territory इससे इसके base in méxico-tenochtitlan, which थी administered as the viceroyalty of New Spain.
This territory would eventually become Mexico following मान्यता of the उपनिवेश 's स्वतंत्रता in 1821.
the post-independence period was characterized by आर्थिक instability, the Mexican-American युद्ध और territorial cession to the United States, a civil युद्ध, दो empires और a घरेलू dictatorship.
The latter led to the मैक्सिकन Revolution in 1910, जिससे culminated साथ the promulgation of the 1917 संविधान और the emergence of the देश 's वर्तमान political प्रणाली.
Elections आयोजित in जुलाई 2000 चिह्नित the first समय that an opposition party जीती the प्रेसिडेंसी from the संस्थागत क्रांतिकारी पार्टी.
चूंकि 2006 the देश has महरूम in the midst of a drug war which रै caused 60,000 deaths.
Mexico रै एक of the संसार 's largest economies, and is considered दोनो a क्षेत्रीय power and मध्य शक्ति.
in जोड, मैक्सिको was the पहला लैटिन American सदस्य of the Organisation for Economic co-operation and विकास OECD ( since 1994 ), and माना an upper-middle income देश by the World बैंको.
मैक्सिको is considered a newly industrialized country and an emerging शक्ति.
it has the fourteenth largest नाममात्र जीडीपी और the eleventh largest जीडीपी by purchasing शक्ति पैरिटी.
The अर्थव्यवस्था is strongly linked to those of इसके North American फ़्री Trade अनुबंध ( nafta ) साझेदार, especially the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका.
Mexico बाँधने छठे in the संसार and पहला in the Americas by क्रमांक of युनेस्को संसार विरासत Sites with 31, and in 2007 थी the दसवाँ most visited देश in the संसार with 21.4 लाख अंतरराष्ट्रीय arrivals प्रति साल.
बेब Ruth holds the एमएलबी करियर slugging percentage रिकार्ड (.690 ).
in बेसबॉल आंकडे, slugging percentage ( abbreviated SLG ) is a लोकप्रिय माप of the power of a hitter.
it is गणना as कुल bases divided by at bats :
जहाँ ab is the क्रमांक of at-bats लिये a given player, and 1B, 2b, 3B, और hr हैं the क्रमांक of singles, doubles, triples, और घर रनों, क्रमशः.
Walks are specifically excluded इससे इस calculation.
For example, in 1920, बेब रुथ निभाई his पहला season लिये the नई York Yankees.
In 458 at bats, Ruth था 172 हिट्स, comprising 73 singles, 36 युगल, 9 तिगुना, and 54 घर runs, जिससे brings the total आधार गिनती to ( 73 × 1 ) + ( 36 × 2 ) + ( 9 × 3 ) + ( 54 × 4 ) = 388.
His कुल number of bases ( 388 ) divided by his total at-bats ( 458 ) is.847, his slugging प्रतिशत for the ऋतु.
the next year he slugged.846, और ये records गई अखंड until 2001, जब बैरी Bonds हासिल 411 bases in 476 at-bats, bringing his slugging percentage to.863, बेमेल since.
is a role-playing वीडियो game विकसित and published by वर्गाकार ( now Square Enix ) लिये the सुपर Nintendo Entertainment प्रणाली in 1995.
Chrono Trigger 's development टोली शामिल तीन designers कि Square dubbed the `` सपना टोली '' : hironobu Sakaguchi, the निर्माता of वर्गाकार 's फाइनल काल्पनिक श्रेणी ; yuji Horii, a freelance designer और निर्माता of Enix 's लोकप्रिय Dragon Quest series ; और अकिरा toriyama, a freelance manga कलाकार famed लिये उसके कार्य with ड्रैगन Quest and ड्रैगन बॉल.
kazuhiko Aoki उत्पादित the game, masato काटो wrote सबसे of the plot, जबकि composer yasunori mitsuda scored most of the game पहले गिरना ill and deferring remaining ट्रैक्स to फाइनल काल्पनिक composer nobuo uematsu.
The game 's स्टोरी follows a group of adventurers जो सफर through समय to prevent a वैश्विक catastrophe.
वर्गाकार re-released a ported संस्करण by Tose in जापानी लिये Sony 's PlayStation in 1999, later repackaged with a फाइनल काल्पनिक IV बंदरगाहों as फाइनल काल्पनिक Chronicles in 2001 लिये the North अमरीकी market.
a slightly enhanced Chrono Trigger थी released लिये the Nintendo ds on नवम्बर 25, 2008, in उत्तर अमेरिका and Japan, and गई on sale in ऑस्ट्रेलिया on February 3, 2009 और in यूरोपीय on February 6, 2009.
the game थी never released in PAL territories before the निन्टेंडो ds संस्करण.
Chrono ट्रिगर was a critical and commercial कामयाबी upon रिलीज and is considered today to be एक of the महानतम वीडियो खेल of all समय.
निन्टेंडो Power magazine वर्णित पहलुओं of chrono ट्रिगर as क्रांतिकारी, including इसके multiple endings, plot-related sidequests focusing on character विकास, unique battle system, और detailed ग्राफिक्स.
chrono Trigger थी the तीसरा best-selling खेल of 1995, and the game 's snes और प्लेस्टेशन iterations have shipped 2.65 million नक़ल as of कूच 2003.
the version लिये the Nintendo ds बेची 790,000 नक़ल as of कूच 2009.
chrono Trigger was also ported to मोबाईल phones, आभासी कंसोल, the PlayStation संजाल ( only in the यूएसए ), iOS डिवाइस, और एंड्रॉइड devices.
Goat चीज
Goat cheese, or chèvre ( इससे the French शब्द लिये goat ), is चीज बना आउट of the मिल्क of goats.
अतिताप is elevated देह तापमान due to विफल thermoregulation कि occurs when a देह produces or absorbs more ऊष्मा than it dissipates.
Extreme temperature उन्नयन then becomes a medical आपात requiring तात्कालिक उपचार to prevent disability or death.
The most आम causes शामिल heat stroke और प्रतिकूल प्रतिक्रियाएँ to दवाएँ.
The पूर्व is an अधि temperature उन्नयन caused by exposure to excessive ऊष्मा, or combination of ऊष्मा and humidity, कि overwhelms the heat-regulating mechanisms.
The latter is a अपेक्षाकृत rare side effect of many दवाएँ, विशेषकर those that affect the सेंट्रल nervous प्रणाली.
malignant hyperthermia is a विरल complication of कुछ types of सामान्य एनेस्थीसिया.
अतिताप can also be deliberately induced using दवाएँ or चिकित्सा डिवाइस and may be प्रयुक्त in the treatment of कुछ kinds of कर्कट और other शर्तें, most commonly in संयोजन with radiotherapy.
अतिताप differs इससे fever in that the body 's temperature set पाइंट remains अपरिवर्तित.
the opposite is hypothermia, which occurs जब the तापमान बूंदें नीचे that जरूरी to maintain सामान्य metabolism.
बेलीज़, is a country स्तिथ on the northeastern coast of Central अमेरिका.
It is the तभी देश in the क्षेत्रफल जहाँ अंग्रेज़ी is the आधिकारिक भाषा, हालांकि kriol and स्पेनी हैं अधिक commonly spoken.
बेलीज़ is bordered on the north by मैक्सिको, to the दक्षिण and west by Guatemala और to the ईस्ट by the Caribbean Sea.
Its मेनलैंड is about long और wide.
साथ of land और a population of तभी 312,698 निवासियों ( 2010 जनसांख्यिकी ), बेलीज़ possesses the न्यूनतम population density in सेंट्रल America.
the country 's population विकास रेट of 3.15 % ( 2012 est. ) is the दूसरी highest in the region and एक of the उच्चतम in the पश्चिमी गोलार्ध.
Belize 's abundance of terrestrial and समुद्री species, and its विविधता of ecosystems दे it a कुंजी प्लेस भीतर the globally significant Mesoamerican biological Corridor.
Belize रै a विविध समाज, comprising many संस्कृतियों and languages.
it is the तभी nation in the प्रदेश with a अंग्रेजों औपनिवेशिक विरासत, लकिन as a भाग of the Western caribbean Zone, it भी साझा a आम heritage साथ the fellow anglophone caribbean countries.
in सामान्य, बेलीज़ is considered to be a सेंट्रल American and Caribbean स्वदेश साथ दमदार ties to both the Caribbean और लैटिन अमेरिका.
Belize is a सदस्य of the Caribbean Community ( caricom ), the Community of Latin American and caribbean States ( celac ), and Central American Integration प्रणाली ( SICA ).
बेलीज़ is known for its सितंबर जश्न, और is the birthplace of चबाने गम और punta चट्टान.
The `` Betsy रॉस '' flag
a `` Betsy Ross '' flag उड़ती बाहर San फ्रांसिस्को City हॉल
the Betsy Ross flag is an early डिज़ाइन of the ध्वज of the संयुक्त राज्य, popularly attributed to बेट्सी रॉस, using the आम motifs of प्रत्यावर्ती red-and-white striped field with five-pointed stars in a ब्लू canton.
the flag थी designed दौरान the American Revolution और सुविधाएँ 13 stars to represent the original 13 colonies.
the distinctive विशेषता of the Ross ध्वज is the arrangement of the stars in a वृत्त.
हालांकि the बेट्सी रॉस स्टोरी is accepted by most अमेरिकी, some ध्वज इतिहासकारों and revisionists do नहीं accept the बेट्सी रॉस design as the पहला American ध्वज.
According to the traditional खाता, the असली ध्वज थी बना in जून 1776, जब a छोटी committee—including जार्ज वॉशिंगटन, रॉबर्ट मॉरिस and सापेक्ष जार्ज Ross —visited Betsy और discussed the need लिये a new American ध्वज.
बेट्सी स्वीकृत the job to manufacture the ध्वज, altering the कमेटी 's design by replacing the six-pointed stars with five-pointed सितारों.
While the बेट्सी Ross legend is questionable, the flag डिज़ाइन is ज्ञात to have महरूम in use by 1777 ; अल्फ्रेड b. Street वर्णित it at the आत्मसमर्पण of General Burgoyne और समझा the वृत्त of stars to represent equality among the अमरीकी राज्य.
It is one of the oldest versions of u.S. ध्वज known to मौजूद ; जबकि it is not the oldest surviving ध्वज centuries in cloth रूप, its likeness appears on पुरानी शारीरिक अरबिंदो, namely, the समकालीन रणभूमि paintings by जॉन trumbull और चार्ल्स Willson Peale.
वे depict the गोलाकार star व्यवस्था being flown इससे जलयान masts और अनेक other places, और यूँ provide the first ज्ञात historical दस्तावेज़ीकरण of the ध्वज 's रूप.
the मुहर of the u.S. विभाग of Veterans Affairs उपयोग the बेट्सी रॉस flag to represent service to all दिग्गजों from the अमरीकी Revolution to the उपस्थित दिन.
the बेट्सी Ross design of 13-star US ध्वज रै महरूम प्रदर्शित in अनेक लोकप्रिय artworks ( sometimes inaccurately, as in वॉशिंगटन क्रासिंग the डेलावेयर ) and films, such as the 1960 version of pollyanna.
The flag continues to be एक of the सबसे लोकप्रिय प्रतीकों of the American क्रान्ति.
a purr is a sound बना by all species of felids और is a part of cat संचार.
it varies between cats ( लिये example by loudness और टोन ), and इससे species to species, लकिन can be characterized as a tonal गुलजार.
the पद `` purring '' रै been प्रयुक्त liberally in साहित्य, और it has been claimed कि viverrids ( सीविट, mongoose, genet ), bears, badgers, hyaenas ( et cetera ) purr.
अन्य animals कि have been कहा to purr are खरगोश, squirrels, guinea सूअर, tapirs, ring-tailed lemurs, elephants, raccoons और gorillas जबकि खाने.
However, using a सख्त definition of purring that निरन्तर ध्वनि उत्पादन जरूर alternate between pulmonic egressive और ingressive airstream ( and usually go on for minutes ), पीटर्स ( 2002 ), in an exhaustive review of the वैज्ञानिक साहित्य, पहुँचे the निष्कर्ष कि जबतक then तभी ‘purring cats’ ( फ़ेलिडाए ) और दो species of genets, genetta tigrina, और सबसे likely also genetta genetta, had महरूम प्रलेखित to purr.
the platypus ( Ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic स्तनधारी endemic to पूर्वी ऑस्ट्रेलिया, सहित Tasmania.
Together साथ the four प्रजाति of echidna, it is one of the five extant species of monotremes, the only mammals that lay eggs instead of giving जनम.
it is the एकमात्र जीना प्रतिनिधि of its family ( ornithorhynchidae ) और genus ( Ornithorhynchus ), हालांकि a number of सम्बन्धित प्रजाति have been found in the fossil रिकार्ड.
the असामान्य रूप of this egg-laying, duck -billed, beaver -tailed, otter -footed स्तनधारी baffled यूरोपीय naturalists when they first encountered it, साथ some considering it an elaborate धोखाधड़ी.
It is एक of the few venomous स्तनधारियों, the पुरूष platypus having a spur on the हिन्द पैर that delivers a venom capable of causing severe पीड़ा to इंसानो.
the unique features of the platypus मेक it an important विषय in the पढ़ाई of विकासवादी जीवविज्ञान and a recognisable and iconic प्रतीक of ऑस्ट्रेलिया ; it रै appeared as a शुभंकर at नेशनल कार्यक्रम और is प्रदर्शित on the रिवर्स of its 20-cent coin.
The platypus is the animal emblem of the state of New South वेल्स.
जबतक the जल्दी 20th century, it थी hunted लिये इसके फर, लकिन it is now protected throughout its range.
Although captive breeding programmes have था only सीमित success और the platypus is vulnerable to the effects of pollution, it is नहीं अंतर्गत कोई तात्कालिक threat.
st. एलिज़ाबेथ is a गाँव in मिलर काउंटी, Missouri, United States.
the जनसांख्यिकी was 336 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
wilton is a census-designated place ( cdp ) in sacramento काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, संयुक्त States.
It is part of the Sacramento – arden-arcade – roseville महानगर सांख्यिकीय Area.
The जनसांख्यिकी was 5,363 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, up इससे 4,551 at the 2000 census.
in human-computer बातचीत, cut और paste and copy and paste हैं related कमांड that offer a user-interface interaction technique लिये transferring टेक्स्ट, data, files or वस्तुएँ from a सोर्स to a गंतव्य.
सबसे ubiquitously, उपयोक्ता आवश्यकता the क्षमता to काटें और paste sections of मैदान टेक्स्ट.
the cut कमांड removes the चयनित data इससे इसके असली position, जबकि the नक़ल command creates a नकल ; in दोनो मामले the चयनित data is लगाई in a clipboard.
the data in the clipboard is बाद inserted in the position where the paste कमांड is जारी.
the कमांड names are an इंटरफ़ेस metaphor आधारित on the शारीरिक कार्यविधि used in manuscript editing to बनाएँ a page लेआउट.
This बातचीत तकनीक रै बंद associations with related तकनीकों in आलेखीय उपयोक्ता अंतरफलक कि उपयोग इंगित devices ऐसे as a कंप्यूटर चूहा ( by खीचें और बूँद, लिये उदाहरण ).
आर्थिक order quantity is the अनुक्रम मात्रा कि minimizes कुल inventory holding लागत and ordering costs.
It is एक of the oldest शास्त्रीय production scheduling मॉडल.
The फ्रेमवर्क used to determine this अनुक्रम मात्रा is भी ज्ञात as Barabas EOQ मॉडल or barabas सूत्र.
the model was विकसित by घाट W. हैरिस in 1913, but R. H. विल्सन, a consultant who लागू it extensively, is given क्रेडिट for उसके in-depth विश्लेषण.
स्टीफन `` स्टीवी '' रे vaughan ( अक्तूबर 3, 1954 – अगस्त 27, 1990 ) थी an American guitarist, singer-songwriter, और रिकार्ड producer.
Often referred to by उसके initials srv, vaughan is बेहतरीन known as a founding सदस्य and नेता of दोगुना ट्रबल.
साथ साथ वादक क्रिस layton and bassist टॉमी शैनन, वे ignited the ब्लूज़ पुनरुद्धार of the 1980s.
With a career spanning seven years, Vaughan और दोगुना ट्रबल consistently बेची आउट concerts while their एल्बम अक्सर गई सुनहरा.
He थी born and raised in Dallas, टेक्सास, and for a short period of समय जिया in Graham, टेक्सास.
as the younger bhai of jimmie Vaughan, Vaughan प्रारंभ playing the गिटार at age सात और formed अनेक bands कि occasionally performed in local nightclubs.
at age 17, he dropped out of high school and स्थानांतरित to ऑस्टिन to further pursue his musical career, joining groups such as krackerjack, the Nightcrawlers, और the cobras.
In 1977, he formed Triple threat revue, a बैंड कि आखिरकार विकसित into दोगुना Trouble and regularly performed around ऑस्टिन.
in 1982, Vaughan और दोगुना ट्रबल performed at the Montreux Jazz पर्व in Switzerland, catching the attention of musicians David बोवी और जैक्सन Browne.
बोवी asked vaughan to play on उसके आगामी studio album Let 's नृत्य, while Browne offered the बैंड फ़्री use of उसके निजी स्टुडियो in लॉस एंजिल्स to रिकार्ड an album.
In कूच 1983, Vaughan and दोगुना ट्रबल यहूद हस्ताक्षरित to एपिक रिकॉर्ड by veteran record producer John Hammond Sr. और released their debut एल्बम, टेक्सास Flood in जून of that साल.
After कामयाब touring, the समूह released the albums, could n't स्टैंड the मौसम ( 1984 ) और आत्मा to आत्मा ( 1985 ), the latter of which प्रदर्शित नई keyboardist Reese Wynans.
हालांकि his करियर had progressed सफलतापूर्वक, Vaughan checked into a पुनर्वास hospital in अटलांटा, जॉर्जिया to give up a cocaine and दारू आदत और लौटे to touring साथ the band.
in June 1989, In Step was released और अर्जित उन्हें a Grammy पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Contemporary ब्लूज़ Performance.
on अगस्त 27, 1990, vaughan थी मारे in a helicopter crash following a प्रदर्शन in ईस्ट Troy, विस्कॉन्सिन.
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet intense स्टाइल थी derived इससे a variety of musical जाति.
He was बहकावे by blues संगीतकारों including Albert किंग, फ्रेडी King, ओटिस फटाफट, और Muddy waters, और चट्टान guitarists such as जिमि Hendrix और lonnie Mack.
His गिटार playing reflected the classic ब्लूज़ और pentatonic तराजू.
He has received wide critical मान्यता for his guitar playing, ranking at # 6 on रोलिंग Stones list of `` 100 Greatest guitarists '' in 2011.
He थी posthumously inducted into the Blues Hall of कीर्ति in 2000 and a मेमोरियल statue थी erected in ऑस्टिन 's Auditorium Shores पार्क.
Stevie रे vaughan is widely माना to be एक of the greatest संगीतकारों to आइये from the राज्य of टेक्सास.
the Las वेगास स्ट्रिप World of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated नरम पेय बेची in stores, रेस्तरां, and वेंडिंग machines in प्रत्येक country मगर क्यूबा और उत्तर Korea.
it is produced by The Coca-Cola कम्पनी of Atlanta, जॉर्जिया, and is often referred to simply as कोक ( a registered ट्रेडमार्क of the Coca-Cola कम्पनी in the United राज्य चूंकि March 27, 1944 ).
originally intended as a patent आयुर्विज्ञान जब it was invented in the लेट 19th सदी by जॉन Pemberton, Coca-Cola थी खरीदा आउट by businessman asa Griggs Candler, जिनकी marketing tactics led Coke to its dominance of the world soft-drink मार्केट throughout the 20th century.
The कम्पनी produces concentrate, जिससे is तब sold to licensed coca-cola bottlers throughout the world.
the bottlers, जो hold territorially विशेष अनुबंध साथ the कम्पनी, उपज finished उत्पाद in डिब्बे और बोतलों इससे the concentrate in संयोजन साथ filtered जल और sweeteners.
The bottlers then sell, वितरित और merchandise Coca-Cola to retail स्टोर्स और vending machines.
ऐसे bottlers शामिल Coca-Cola उद्यमों, which is the largest सिंगल Coca-Cola bottler in North अमेरिका और western Europe.
the Coca-Cola कम्पनी भी sells concentrate लिये सोडा स्रोतों to प्रमुख रेस्तरां और food service वितरकों.
the Coca-Cola कम्पनी has, on occasion, introduced other cola पेय अंतर्गत the Coke ब्रांड name.
The सबसे आम of ये is Diet Coke, with अन्य सहित caffeine-free Coca-Cola, Diet कोक caffeine-free, Coca-Cola Cherry, coca-cola शून्य, coca-cola वैनिला, और special संस्करण साथ नीबू, लाइम or कॉफी.
आधारित on interbrand 's बेहतरीन global ब्रांड 2011, coca-cola was the संसार 's सबसे valuable ब्रांड.
Barry Louis larkin ( born अप्रैल 28, 1964 ) is a retired प्रमुख लीग Baseball खिलाड़ी.
larkin played shortstop लिये the सिनसिनाटी Reds इससे 1986 to 2004 और थी एक of the pivotal खिलाड़ी on the 1990 लाल ' संसार श्रेणी चैंपियनशिप team.
Larkin was निर्वाचित to the नेशनल बेसबॉल हॉल of कीर्ति in जनवरी 2012 and was inducted on जुलाई 22.
larkin is माना one of the शीर्ष players of his era, winning nine Silver slugger पुरस्कार and तीन सुनहरा दस्ताने पुरस्कार.
he was चयनित to the प्रमुख League All-Star Game twelve times, और थी निर्वाचित the 1995 National लीग सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी.
Brasília ( ) is the संघीय capital of ब्राज़ील और the सीट of government of the Federal District.
administratively, the नगर is स्तिथ in the संघीय District which is in the central-west प्रदेश.
physically, it is located in the Brazilian हाइलैंड्स.
it has a जनसांख्यिकी of about 2,562,963 ( 3,716,996 in the महानगर क्षेत्रफल ) as of the 2008 ibge estimate, बनाना it the fourth largest city in Brazil.
however, as a महानगर area, it बाँधने lower at छठे in population.
Brasília is the largest नगर in the world कि किया not exist at the शुरूआत of the 20th century.
Brasília has the पांचवां largest GDP among लैटिन American शहरों and the third in Brazil.
at around r $ 62,000 ब्राज़ीलियाई reais ( equal to approximately $ 30,900 US डॉलर or €23,000 euros ), the नगर 's प्रति capita income is the highest among Brazil 's largest शहरों.
As the national capital, brasília is the सीट of सब तीन branches of the संघीय government of ब्राज़ील.
the नगर भी होस्ट the headquarters of अनेक Brazilian कंपनियाँ.
नियोजन नीतियों such as the स्थान of residential इमारतें around expansive urban areas, as खूब as building the नगर around large avenues और dividing it into sectors, have sparked a debate और प्रतिबिंब on life in बिग cities in the 20th century.
the city 's डिज़ाइन divides it into numbered blocks as well as सेक्टर for निर्दिष्ट क्रियाएँ, ऐसे as the Hotel Sector, the बैंकिंग Sector or the दूतावास सेक्टर.
brasília होस्ट 124 foreign embassies.
The city थी planned और विकसित in 1956 with Lúcio कोस्टा as the प्रिंसिपल शहरी प्लानर, ऑस्कर Niemeyer as the principal architect and रॉबर्टो burle Marx as the लैंडस्केप designer.
Brasilia is in the Unesco 's संसार Hertitage List due to इसके वास्तुकला.
on April 22, 1960, it formally became ब्राज़ील 's national पूंजी.
Viewed इससे above, the प्रमुख portion of the नगर resembles an वायुयान or a butterfly.
The नगर is commonly referred to as Capital Federal, or simply bsb.
Residents of brasília are ज्ञात as brasilienses or candangos ( the latter referring to those not born in the नगर but जो migrated there बाद it was स्थापित ).
In लोकल उपयोग, the शब्द `` Brasília '' usually refers तभी to the पहला प्रशासनिक प्रदेश ( RA I ) भीतर the Federal District ( distrito संघीय ), जहाँ the most महत्वपूर्ण सरकारी इमारतें are स्तिथ.
Brasília रै a अद्वितीय status in Brazil, as it is an प्रशासनिक division बल्कि than a विधिक municipality like nearly सब शहरों in Brazil.
nationally, the term is लगभग सदा used synonymously with the संघीय ज़िला, which constitutes an indivisible federative ईकाई, analogous to a state.
अनेक `` उपग्रह cities '' exist जिससे are भी part of the संघीय ज़िला.
brasília अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र is the main airport in brasília, connecting the पूंजी to all प्रमुख Brazilian शहरों और अनेक international गंतव्यों.
It is the तीसरा most important विमानक्षेत्र in Brazil, in terms of passengers and aircraft आंदोलनों.
Personifications of जर्मनी, फ़्रांस, रूस, austria-hungary, and the संयुक्त किंगडम attempting to keep the ढक्कन on the simmering cauldron of imperialist और राष्ट्रवादी तनाव in the Balkans to prevent a सामान्य यूरोपीय युद्ध.
वे were successful in 1912 और 1913 लकिन किया नहीं सफल in in 1914.
the causes of संसार युद्ध i, जिससे began in central Europe in लेट जुलाई 1914 और finished in 1918, included many factors, ऐसे as the विरोध and दुश्मनी of the four दशकों leading up to the युद्ध.
सैन्यवाद, alliances, साम्राज्यवाद, और राष्ट्रवाद played प्रमुख भूमिकाएँ in the विरोध as खूब.
The तात्कालिक origins of the युद्ध, however, lay in the decisions taken by कूटनीतिज्ञों and generals during the Crisis of 1914, casus belli for which थी the हत्या of Archduke फ्रांज Ferdinand ( the Archduke of ऑस्ट्रिया हंगेरियाई ) और उसके बीवी सोफी by gavrilo princip, an irredentist serb.
the संकट आए बाद a long and difficult श्रेणी of राजनयिक clashes between the ग्रेट Powers ( Italy, फ़्रांस, Germany, the British Empire, the austria-hungarian साम्राज्य and रूस ) over European and औपनिवेशिक issues in the दशक पहले 1914 that था बाएँ tensions ऊँची.
In turn these राजनयिक clashes can be traced to परिवर्तन in the संतुलन of power in यूरोपीय चूंकि 1867.
the अधिक तात्कालिक cause for the war was तनाव over territory in the balkans.
austria-hungary competed with Serbia and रूस लिये territory और influence in the प्रदेश and वे खींचा the rest of the ग्रेट Powers into the conflict through उनके विभिन्न alliances and treaties.
हालांकि the कड़ी of कार्यक्रम unleashed by the हत्या triggered the युद्ध, the युद्ध 's origins go deeper, involving नेशनल राजनीती, cultures, अर्थशास्त्र, and a complex वेब of alliances और counterbalances कि था विकसित between the विभिन्न European शक्तियां चूंकि 1870.
Some of the सबसे important long term or संरचनात्मक causes हैं : the विकास of nationalism आरपार Europe, अनसुलझे territorial विवादों, an intricate प्रणाली of alliances, the आभास विश्लेषण of the संतुलन of power in Europe, convoluted and fragmented governance, the बाहें दौड़ of the previous दशकों, पिछला सैन्य planning, इम्पीरियल और औपनिवेशिक फंसने for माल, शक्ति and प्रतिष्ठा, और economic और military फंसने in उद्योग और trade – e.g., the सुअर युद्ध between Austria and Serbia.
अन्य causes कि आए into play दौरान the राजनयिक crisis that preceded the युद्ध included misperceptions of intent ( e.g., the जर्मनी विश्वास that the संयुक्त किंगडम would remain neutral ) और delays और misunderstandings in राजनयिक संचार.
the various categories of स्पष्टीकरण for संसार War i correspond to अलग इतिहासकारों ' overall methods.
सबसे इतिहासकारों and लोकप्रिय commentators शामिल causes इससे अधिक than एक श्रेणी of स्पष्टीकरण to provide a rounded खाता of the causes of the युद्ध.
The deepest distinction among these खाते is between कहानियां कि देखिए it as the अपरिहार्य and predictable निष्कर्ष of certain कारकों, और those that describe it as an arbitrary and दुर्भाग्यपूर्ण mistake.
in attributing कल्याणकारी लिये the war, इतिहासकारों and लड था to सौदे with an unprecedented बाढ़ of memoirs और आधिकारिक दस्तावेज़, released as each देश involved tried to avoid blame लिये starting the war.
जल्दी releases of information by सरकारें, particularly those released for उपयोग by the `` Commission on the जिम्मेदारी of the लेखक of the युद्ध '' यहूद दिखाया to be अधूरी और biased.
in जोड some documents, विशेषकर diplomatic केबल between रूस and France, यहूद मिला to have been doctored.
भी in बाद decades however, when much more सूचना had महरूम released, historians इससे the वही culture have महरूम दिखाया to come to differing conclusions on the causes of the war.
जॉनसन 's नई chart of नेशनल प्रतीक, published c. 1868.
the विशाल ध्वज दिखाया in the किनारे हैं the 37-star ध्वज of the संयुक्त राज्य ( flown 1867-1877 ), the royal Standard of the संयुक्त Kingdom, the रूसी Imperial मानक, और the फ्रेंच tricolore with इनसेट Imperial Eagle.
विभिन्न अन्य ध्वज flown by जहाजों हैं shown.
the Flag of क्यूबा is labelled `` Cuban ( so called ) ``.
the Chinese ड्रैगन on the Flag of चीन थी drawn mistakenly as a western ड्रैगन.
A नेशनल flag is a ध्वज कि symbolizes a country.
The ध्वज is flown by the government, but usually can भी be flown by citizens of the देश.
दोनो पब्लिक और निजी इमारतें ऐसे as स्कूलों and courthouses may मक्खी the national ध्वज.
in कुछ देशों, the national ध्वज हैं तभी flown इससे non-military इमारतें on certain ध्वज दिनों.
वहीँ हैं three पृथक प्रकार of नेशनल ध्वज लिये use on land, and तीन लिये use at sea, though many देशों उपयोग identical designs for several ( और sometimes सब ) of ये प्रकार of flag.
the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध ( ACW ), also ज्ञात as the War between the States or बस the Civil युद्ध ( see naming ), थी a सिविल war लड़ा from 1861 to 1865 between the United राज्य ( the `` Union '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और अनेक Southern स्लेव राज्य कि घोषित their secession और formed the Confederate राज्य of अमेरिका ( the `` confederacy '' or the `` दक्षिण '' ).
the युद्ध had इसके origin in the issue of slavery, विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन of slavery into the पश्चिमी territories.
विदेशी शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene.
बाद four years of bloody कॉम्बैट that left over 600,000 सैनिको मुर्दे और destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure, the confederacy collapsed, slavery थी abolished, and the difficult पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring national unity and guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed slaves began.
in the 1860 अध्यक्षीय election, republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त States ' territories.
lincoln won, लकिन before his inauguration on कूच 4, 1861, सात cotton-based slave states formed the confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic अध्यक्ष James बुकानन and the आवक republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
lincoln 's inaugural पता घोषित his administration होता नहीं initiate civil war.
Eight बाकी slave राज्य जारी to reject calls लिये secession.
confederate forces seized numerous संघीय forts भीतर territory claimed by the Confederacy.
a सलाम सम्मेलन failed to ढूँढें a सुलह, and दोनो sides prepared for war.
the confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय countries यहूद so dependent on `` King कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया और none recognized the नई Confederate राज्य of America.
hostilities began on अप्रैल 12, 1861, जब Confederate शक्तियां fired upon Fort sumter, a key फोर्ट आयोजित by Union सैनिकों in South कैरोलिना.
lincoln called लिये प्रत्येक state to provide सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट ; consequently, चार अधिक स्लेव states joined the Confederacy, bringing उनके कुल to eleven.
The Union soon नियंत्रित the किनारा राज्य और established a naval blockade कि अबोध the दक्षिणी अर्थव्यवस्था.
the पूर्वी थिएटर was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The पतझड़ 1862 confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union राज्य ) ended साथ confederate retreat at the बैटल of antietam, dissuading British हस्तक्षेप.
lincoln जारी the emancipation Proclamation, जिससे बना ending गुलामी a war goal.
To the west, by गर्मियाँ 1862 the संघ नष्ट the confederate river navy, then much of उनके पश्चिमी armies, and the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the Confederacy in two at the मिसिसिपी River.
In 1863, Robert E. ली 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of gettysburg.
Western successes led to ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of all संघ सेना in 1864.
in the Western थिएटर, विलियम T. शरमन drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर अटलांटा and marched to the समुद्र, destroying confederate अवसंरचना along the रास्ता.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to आक्रमण the Confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश, and could afford to fight battles of अपघर्षण through the Overland Campaign towards रिचमंड, the Confederate capital.
the defending confederate फौज विफल, अग्रणी to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to Grant at appomattox Court हाउस on April 9, 1865.
The American सिविल War थी एक of the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक युद्धों.
railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, और mass-produced हथियार यहूद employed extensively.
the mobilization of civilian कारखानों, खानों, shipyards, बैंको, transportation और food supplies सब foreshadowed World War i.
it remains the deadliest युद्ध in American history, resulting in the deaths of an अनुमानित 750,000 soldiers और an undetermined क्रमांक of civilian हताहत.
इतिहासकार जॉन huddleston estimates the मौत toll at टेन प्रतिशत of all उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा, और 30 प्रतिशत of सब दक्षिणी श्वेत males aged 18–40.
Norrie disease is a जेनेटिक विकार कि primarily affects the eye और लगभग सदा leads to blindness.
In जोड to the जन्मजात ocular symptoms, कुछ मरीजों suffer from a प्रगतिशील सुनना घाटा starting ज़्यादातर in उनके 2nd दशक of जीवन, जबकि another portion may be mentally challenged.
मरीजों with norrie disease may develop cataracts, leukocoria ( a condition जहाँ the विद्यार्थियों appear श्वेत जब light is shone on उन्हें ), साथ with अन्य developmental issues in the eye, ऐसे as shrinking of the ग्लोब and the बर्बाद दूर of the आईरिस.
around 30–50 % of उन्हें will भी have developmental delay/ mental retardation, psychotic-like features, incoordination of आंदोलनों or behavioral abnormalities.
सबसे मरीजों हैं born साथ normal hearing ; however, the onset of hearing घाटा is very आम in जल्दी किशोरावस्था.
परिचय 15 % of the मरीजों हैं estimated to develop all the सुविधाएँ of the बीमारी.
the बीमारी affects लगभग तभी male infants at जनम or जल्द after birth, क्युकी the बीमारी is inherited X-linked recessive.
तभी in बहुत rare cases, महिलाओं have महरूम diagnosed with Norrie बीमारी as खूब.
the सटीक incidence क्रमांक is अनजान ; तभी a few hundred मामले have been reported so far.
It is a बहुत rare disorder that is नहीं संबद्ध with any विशिष्ट जातीय or racial groups.
A अनुबंध is an agreement having a lawful object डाला into voluntarily by दो or more पार्टियों, प्रत्येक of whom intends to बनाएँ एक or more विधिक obligations between them.
the तत्व of a अनुबंध हैं `` offer '' and `` acceptance '' by `` competent व्यक्तियों '' having विधिक क्षमता who एक्सचेंज `` विचार '' to create `` mutuality of दायित्व. ''
प्रमाण of some or सब of ये elements may be done in लिखने, though अनुबंध may be made entirely orally or by conduct.
the remedy लिये उल्लंघन of contract can be `` क्षतिपूर्ति '' in the रूप of compensation of धन or specific performance enforced through an injunction.
दोनो of ये remedies पुरस्कार the पार्टी at घाटा the `` लाभ of the सौदेबाजी '' or expectation क्षतिपूर्ति, जिससे हैं greater than mere रिलायंस क्षतिपूर्ति, as in promissory estoppel.
the parties may be प्राकृतिक व्यक्तियों or juristic व्यक्तियों.
A अनुबंध is a legally enforceable वादा or undertaking कि something will or होगा नहीं occur.
the word वादा can be used as a विधिक पर्याय लिये contract, हालांकि परवाह is जरूरी as a वादा may नहीं have the पूरा standing of a अनुबंध, as जब it is an अनुबंध बगैर consideration.
अनुबंध law varies greatly इससे one jurisdiction to another, सहित मतभेद in common law compared to civil विधि, the impact of प्राप्त law, विशेषकर इससे इंग्लैण्ड in आम law countries, और of law संहिताबद्ध in क्षेत्रीय विधान.
regarding ऑस्ट्रेलियाई Contract विधि लिये example, वहीँ are 40 relevant अधिनियमों जिससे प्रभाव on the interpretation of contract at the Commonwealth ( संघीय / national ) स्तर, and an अतिरिक्त 26 अधिनियमों at the स्तर of the state of nsw.
in addition वहीँ हैं 6 international instruments or conventions जिससे हैं लागू for अंतरराष्ट्रीय dealings, ऐसे as the संयुक्त Nations Convention on अनुबंध लिये the अंतरराष्ट्रीय बिक्री of Goods.
ASP.NET is a server-side Web application फ्रेमवर्क designed लिये वेब विकास to उपज डायनेमिक वेब पृष्ठों.
it थी developed by Microsoft to allow प्रोग्रामर्स to build डायनेमिक वेब साइट, web अनुप्रयोग and वेब services.
It थी पहला released in January 2002 साथ संस्करण 1.0 of the.neT फ्रेमवर्क, और is the successor to microsoft 's Active सर्वर पृष्ठों ( ASP ) प्रौद्योगिकी.
ASP.NET is निर्मित on the आम भाषा Runtime ( CLR ), allowing programmers to लिखें asp.net कोड using कोई supported.neT भाषा.
The asp.net SOAP एक्सटेंशन framework allows ASP.NET components to प्रक्रम SOAP संदेश.
lysergic एसिड diethylamide, abbreviated LSD or LSD-25, भी ज्ञात as lysergide ( इन ) and colloquially as acid, is a semisynthetic psychedelic drug of the ergoline family, well ज्ञात लिये its psychological effects जिससे can include altered सोच प्रक्रियाओं, closed and खोलें eye visuals, synesthesia, an altered sense of time और आध्यात्मिक अनुभवों, as well as लिये its कुंजी role in 1960s counterculture.
It is प्रयुक्त मुख्यतः as an entheogen, recreational ड्रग, और as an एजेंट in psychedelic चिकित्सा.
LSD is non-addictive, is not known to कारण brain क्षति, और has extremely low toxicity relative to खुराक.
However, प्रतिकूल मनोरोग प्रतिक्रियाएँ ऐसे as चिंता, paranoia, और delusions are संभावित.
LSD was पहला synthesized by अल्बर्ट hofmann in 1938 इससे ergotamine, a रासायनिक निकला by आर्थर stoll इससे ergot, a grain कवक that typically grows on rye.
The short form `` LSD '' comes from इसके early कोड name LSD-25, जिससे is an संक्षिप्त लिये the German `` lysergsäure-diethylamid '' followed by a sequential क्रमांक.
LSD is sensitive to ऑक्सीजन, ultraviolet लाइट, और क्लोराइड, विशेषकर in समाधान, हालांकि इसके potency may पिछला लिये years if it is भंडारित दूर इससे light and moisture at कम तापमान.
in pure form it is a colorless, गंधहीन, tasteless solid.
एलएसडी is typically वितरित orally, प्रायः on a substrate such as absorbent blotter पेपर, a शुगर घन, or जिलेटिन.
In its द्रव रूप, it can also be administered by intramuscular or intravenous injection.
एलएसडी is बहुत potent, with 20–30 μg ( micrograms ) होने the दहलीज खुराक.
New प्रयोग साथ LSD प्रारंभ in 2009 लिये the पहला समय in 40 सालो.
introduced by Sandoz Laboratories, साथ trade-name delysid, as a ड्रग with various मनोरोग uses in 1947, एलएसडी जल्दी became a therapeutic एजेंट that appeared to दिखाएँ ग्रेट promise.
in the 1950s, officials at the u.S. Central प्रज्ञा एजेंसी ( CIA ) विचार the drug might be लागू to mind कंट्रोल और chemical warfare ; the agency 's MKULTRA research कार्यक्रम propagated the drug among यंग servicemen and विद्यार्थी.
the subsequent recreational उपयोग of the ड्रग by युवावस्था संस्कृति in the Western संसार दौरान the 1960s led to a political firestorm कि resulted in इसके निषेध.
Currently, a क्रमांक of organizations—including the beckley न्यास, मानचित्र, Heffter Research Institute and the अल्बर्ट Hofmann Foundation—exist to निधि, प्रोत्साहित and निर्देशांक शोध into the औषधीय and spiritual उपयोग of एलएसडी और सम्बन्धित psychedelics.
The United राज्य नेवी 's समुद्र, एयर, जमीन Teams, commonly ज्ञात as the नेवी seals, हैं the U.S. नेवी 's प्रिंसिपल खास परिचालन फ़ोर्स and a part of the नवल Special Warfare Command and संयुक्त राज्य खास परिचालन Command.
`` मुहर '' is सदा capitalized in reference to members of the नवल खास Warfare जातियाँ.
the एक्रोनिम is derived इससे their क्षमता to operate at sea, in the air, and on जमीन.
seals हैं पुरूष सदस्यों of the संयुक्त राज्य Navy.
an एक्सचेंज program with the coast गार्ड, जिससे graduated three Coast Guardsmen as seals, थी suspended in 2011.
the CIA 's highly secretive Special क्रियाएँ प्रभाग ( SAD ) और more specifically इसके elite Special परिचालन Group ( SOG ) रंगरूटों operators इससे the मुहर Teams.
Joint नेवी seals और सीआईए परिचालन go वापस to the famed MACV-SOG during the Vietnam युद्ध.
इस सहयोग स्टिल exists today और is seen in the wars in Iraq और Afghanistan, और in the ढूंढना and killing of Osama bin लादेन in Pakistan.
संसार जनसांख्यिकी estimates इससे 1800 to 2100, based on UN 2010 projections ( red, नारंगी, green ) और us Census Bureau ऐतिहासिक estimates ( ब्लैक ).
वास्तविक अंकित population आंकड़े हैं in blue.
According to the highest अनुमान, the संसार जनसांख्यिकी may वृद्धि to 16 अरब by 2100 ; according to the lowest अनुमान, it may decline to 6 billion.
the संसार जनसांख्यिकी is the कुल क्रमांक of living humans on Earth.
As of today, it is अनुमानित to number अरब by the United राज्य Census Bureau ( uscb ).
the uscb estimates कि the world जनसांख्यिकी exceeded 7 अरब on कूच 12, 2012.
According to a पृथक estimate by the संयुक्त Nations जनसांख्यिकी निधि, it reached this पड़ाव on October 31, 2011.
the world जनसांख्यिकी has experienced निरन्तर विकास चूंकि the end of the ग्रेट Famine and the Black Death in 1350, जब it stood at around 370 million.
the highest दरों of विकास – global जनसांख्यिकी increases ऊपर 1.8 % प्रति साल – यहूद देखी briefly दौरान the 1950s, और for a longer period दौरान the 1960s and 1970s.
the growth रेट peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, और था अस्वीकृत to 1.1 % by 2011.
कुल सालाना births यहूद उच्चतम in the लेट 1980s at about 138 लाख, और हैं अभी अपेक्षित to remain essentially निरंतर at their 2011 level of 134 million, जबकि मौतों क्रमांक 56 million per year, और हैं अपेक्षित to बढ़ाएँ to 80 million per year by 2040.
वर्तमान projections दिखाएँ a जारी बढ़ाएँ in जनसांख्यिकी in the near भविष्य ( लकिन a स्थिर मनाही in the जनसांख्यिकी विकास rate ), साथ the वैश्विक population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates भविष्यवाणी further विकास, stagnation, or भी overall मनाही in the वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the स्थिरता of further world population विकास, citing the growing pressures on the environment, global खाना supplies, और उर्जा resources.
Memphis is a नगर in the southwestern कोने of the U.S. राज्य of टेनेसी, और the काउंटी सीट of शेल्बी County.
the नगर is स्तिथ on the 4th Chickasaw bluff, south of the संगम of the भेड़िया और मिसिसिपी नदियाँ.
Memphis था a जनसांख्यिकी of 672,277 in 2011 making it the largest नगर in the राज्य of टेनेसी, the largest city on the मिसिसिपी River, the तीसरा largest in the southeastern संयुक्त राज्य, and the 20th largest in the United राज्य.
the greater मेम्फिस metropolitan area, सहित adjacent counties in मिसिसिपी और Arkansas, had a 2010 जनसांख्यिकी of 1,316,100.
इस makes Memphis the दूसरी largest metropolitan क्षेत्रफल in Tennessee, surpassed only by महानगर नैशविले, which रै overtaken मेम्फिस in हाल years.
मेम्फिस is the youngest of टेनेसी 's major शहरों.
a निवासी of मेम्फिस is referred to as a Memphian, and the मेम्फिस region is known, विशेषकर to मीडिया आउटलेट, as `` मेम्फिस & The Mid-South ``.
The cattenom नाभिकीय Power Plant in फ़्रांस.
फ़्रांस produces around three quarters of इसके विद्युत by नाभिकीय शक्ति.
the grafenrheinfeld Nuclear शक्ति संयंत्र in जर्मनी.
चांसलर Angela Merkel 's coalition घोषित on May 30, 2011, that germany’s 17 नाभिकीय power stations होगा be shut down by 2022, in a policy reversal following Japan 's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster.
फिलहाल, 68 reactors हैं under निर्माण in 15 countries.
Nuclear शक्ति स्टेशन operate in तीस देशों.
In 2010, पहले the फुकुशिमा Daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति, it was reported कि an average of परिचय 10 नाभिकीय रिएक्टरों यहूद अपेक्षित to become operational प्रति year, although according to the World नाभिकीय संघ, of the 17 civilian reactors planned to become operational between 2007 और 2009, तभी पाँच actually आए on stream.
As of जून 2011, जर्मनी and स्विट्ज़रलैंड हैं phasing-out nuclear शक्ति.
As of जून 2011, देशों such as Australia, Austria, Denmark, Greece, आयरलैंड, Italy, Latvia, liechtenstein, ध्वज, Malaysia, माल्टा, नई जीलैंड, Norway और Portugal remain opposed to nuclear शक्ति.
skeletal मांसपेशियां होमो sapiens
इस is a तालिका of मांसपेशियां of the इंसान anatomy.
वहीँ हैं लगभग 642 skeletal muscles within the typical इंसान, और लगभग प्रत्येक muscle constitutes एक भाग of a जोड़ी of एकसमान द्विपक्षीय muscles, मिला on दोनो पहलू, resulting in लगभग 320 pairs of मांसपेशियां, as प्रस्तुत in this आलेख.
Nevertheless, the exact क्रमांक is difficult to define क्युकी different स्त्रोत group मांसपेशियां differently, e.g. regarding कया is पारिभाषित as different भाग of a single मांसपेशी or as several मांसपेशियां.
Examples दायरा from 640 to 850.
The muscles of the इंसान body can be categorized into a क्रमांक of समूह which include मांसपेशियां relating to the सिर and neck, मांसपेशियां of the torso or trunk, मांसपेशियां of the अपर limbs, and मांसपेशियां of the निम्नतर limbs.
the कार्रवाई refers to the कार्रवाई of प्रत्येक मांसपेशी from the मानक anatomical स्थिति.
In अन्य स्थितियाँ, अन्य क्रियाएँ may be performed.
A reenactment of a battle at Fort फोस्टर, 1837 ( at hillsborough River राज्य पार्क )
The Seminole Wars, भी known as the Florida युद्धों, यहूद three विरोध in Florida between the seminole — the collective नाम दिए to the amalgamation of various समूह of native अमेरिकी और Black लोगों जो settled in Florida in the जल्दी 18th century — और the संयुक्त राज्य Army.
the पहला seminole युद्ध थी from 1814 to 1819 ( although sources differ ), the Second seminole युद्ध from 1835 to 1842, और the Third seminole युद्ध from 1855 to 1858.
the पहला विरोध साथ the Seminoles arose आउट of तनाव relating to सामान्य एंड्रयू जैक्सन 's attack and विनाश of नीग्रो फोर्ट in फ्लोरिडा in 1816.
Jackson भी attacked the Spanish at pensacola.
Ultimately, the स्पेनी क्राउन ceded the उपनिवेश to संयुक्त States rule.
orono is a town in penobscot County, maine, United States.
it थी first settled in 1774 और नामित in honor of Chief Joseph Orono of the Penobscot स्वदेश.
it is घर to the विश्वविद्यालयों of Maine.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 10,362 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
दृश्य of the पिरामिड
Luxor Las Vegas is a hotel and casino on the लास Vegas स्ट्रिप in Paradise, Nevada.
the 30-story होटल, owned and operated by MGM रिसॉर्ट International, रै a कसीनो साथ over 2,000 slot machines और 87 तालिका games.
in the 2008 to 2009 renovation, it has a new, highly आधुनिकीकरण, और समकालीन design and contains a कुल of 4,400 कक्ष, सहित 442 suites, lining the आंतरिक दीवारें of a पिरामिड style मीनार और भीतर twin 22-story ziggurat मीनारें that यहूद built as बाद additions.
The hotel is named बाद the नगर of Luxor ( प्राचीन Thebes ) in Egypt.
Luxor is the दूसरी largest hotel in लास वेगास ( the largest being the mgm ग्रैंड ) और the eighth largest in the संसार.
As of 2010, the लक्सर रै a 4 कुंजी rating इससे the ग्रीन Key eco-rating Program, जिससे evaluates `` चिरस्थायी '' hotel परिचालन.
A पायलट प्रयोग, भी called a पायलट पढ़ाई, is a small स्केल प्रारंभिक पढ़ाई conducted in अनुक्रम to evaluate feasibility, time, cost, प्रतिकूल events, और प्रभाव आकार ( सांख्यिकीय variability ) in an attempt to भविष्यवाणी an appropriate sample size और improve upon the study डिज़ाइन prior to प्रदर्शन of a full-scale research प्रोजेक्ट.
पायलट studies, इसलिए, may नहीं be उचित for case अध्ययन.
The लॉस Angeles आग Department ( LAFD ) is the एजेंसी that provides fire सुरक्षा और emergency चिकित्सा सेवाएं for the नगर of Los Angeles.
It may be unofficially referred to as the Los एंजिल्स नगर आग Department to फर्क it from the लॉस एंजिल्स काउंटी Fire Department.
The acre is a unit of area used in the imperial and u.S. प्रथागत systems.
an एकड़ is परिचय 40 % of a हेक्टेयर – slightly छोटी than an अमरीकी football फ़ील्ड.
The एकड़ is no longer commonly प्रयुक्त, हालांकि a few notable exceptions शामिल the संयुक्त राज्य, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, बर्मा और the संयुक्त Kingdom ( as of 2010, the acre is no longer officially used in the संयुक्त Kingdom, हालांकि is still used in real एस्टेट descriptions ).
It is still used, to some extent, in कनाडा.
The international प्रतीक of the acre is ac, और is defined as 1/640 of a square मील.
the सबसे commonly प्रयुक्त acre आज is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़.
in the संयुक्त राज्य दोनो the अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़ और the थोड़ा different US survey acre हैं in use.
the most आम उपयोग of the acre is to माप tracts of जमीन.
एक अंतरराष्ट्रीय acre is पारिभाषित as 4046.8564224 वर्गाकार मीटर.
दौरान the मध्य आयु, an acre थी the राशि of जमीन कि could be plowed in एक day with a yoke of oxen.
pawnee initially refers to a देशी American people और इसके language:
Pawnee लोगों
Pawnee भाषा
pawnee is भी the नाम of अनेक स्थान in the संयुक्त राज्यs:
Pawnee, इलिनोइस
Pawnee, कान्सास
pawnee नगर, नेब्रास्का
pawnee, Oklahoma
Pawnee, Texas
Pawnee National Grassland, कोलोराडो
pawnee township ( disambiguation )
Pawnee काउंटी ( बहुविकल्पी )
pawnee may also refer to:
पाइपर pa-25 Pawnee, agricultural वायुयान
Hiller VZ-1 pawnee, प्रायोगिक aircraft
pawnee, Indiana ( fictional city ) the fictional सेटिंग of the एनबीसी टेलीविज़न comedy पार्क और मनोरंजन.
broca 's and wernicke 's क्षेत्रों
Language processing refers to the way human beings use words to communicate ideas और feelings, and कैसा ऐसे संचार हैं processed and समझा.
यूँ it is कैसा the दिमाग creates और understands language.
सबसे recent theories consider कि इस प्रक्रम is carried आउट entirely by and अंदर the दिमाग.
This is माना एक of the most characteristic abilities of the human प्रजाति - perhaps the सबसे characteristic.
however बहुत little is known परिचय it और वहीँ is huge scope for research on it.
सबसे of the ज्ञान acquired to तिथि on the विषय रै आइये इससे मरीजों जो have suffered some प्रकार of significant head चोट, whether बाह्य ( wounds, बुलेट ) or आतंरिक ( strokes, tumors, अपक्षयी रोगों ).
अध्ययन have shown कि सबसे of the भाषा processing कृत्यों हैं carried out in the दिमागी cortex.
The essential function of the cortical language क्षेत्रों is symbolic प्रतिनिधित्व.
भी हालांकि language exists in अलग फ़ॉर्म, सब of उन्हें हैं आधारित on सांकेतिक प्रतिनिधित्व.
the bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined ग्रैंड touring car, designed and विकसित by the Volkswagen समूह और manufactured in molsheim, फ़्रांस by Bugatti ऑटोमोबाइल s.a.s.
the Super खेल version of the Veyron is the fastest street-legal उत्पादन car in the world, साथ a top speed of.
the असली संस्करण रै a शीर्ष गति of.
it थी named car of the दशक ( 2000–2009 ) by the बीबीसी टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम Top गियर.
The मानक veyron won Top Gears बेहतरीन car चलित सब साल पुरस्कार in 2005.
on 6 अप्रैल 2013, bugatti नियत the record लिये the fastest roadster in the संसार साथ the Veyron ग्रैंड खेल Vitesse, reaching on average a top speed of.
the veyron 's chief designer was hartmut warkuss, and the exterior थी designed by Jozef kabaň of volkswagen, साथ much of the अभियान्त्रिकी work होने conducted अंतर्गत the मार्गदर्शन of engineering मुख्य वुल्फगांग schreiber.
A क्रमांक of special variants have महरूम produced.
In दिसम्बर 2010, Bugatti began offering prospective खरीदार the क्षमता to मनपसंद exterior और इंटीरियर्स colours by using the Veyron 16.4 Configurator अनुप्रयोग on the marque 's आधिकारिक जालस्थल.
dvd is an ऑप्टिकल डिस्क भंडार स्वरूप, invented and developed by Philips, Sony, तोशिबा, और पैनासोनिक in 1995.
dvds प्रस्ताव higher भंडार क्षमता than कॉम्पैक्ट discs जबकि having the same आयाम.
pre-recorded dvds हैं mass-produced using molding machines कि physically स्टैम्प आंकड़ा onto the DVD.
Such discs are known as dvD- rom, because आंकड़ा can only be पढ़ा और नहीं लिखा nor erased.
रिक्त recordable DVD discs ( dvd-r और dvd+r ) can be recorded एकबार using a dvd recorder and तब function as a dvd-rom. rewritable DVDs ( DVD-RW, DVD+RW, और dvd-ram ) can be अंकित and erased multiple टाइम्स.
DVDs are प्रयुक्त in DVD-Video उपभोक्ता डिजिटल video format and in dvd-audio consumer digital ऑडियो format, as well as for authoring avchd discs.
dvds containing अन्य प्रकार of सूचना may be referred to as DVD आंकड़ा discs.
कया Chilli wants is an अमरीकी वास्तविकता श्रेणी on vh1 अभिनीत Chilli, one-third of the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार -winning r & b तिकड़ी tlc.
The दिखाएँ क्रॉनिकल्स Chilli 's quest to find प्रेम साथ the help of tionna T. Smalls, an author और संबंध coach.
the series premiered on अप्रैल 11, 2010, और रै चूंकि been नवीनीकृत for a second ऋतु.
the second ऋतु premiered on संडे, January 2, 2011.
पीटर जीन hernandez ( born अक्तूबर 8, 1985 ), ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम Bruno मंगल, is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter और record producer.
उठाया in होनोलूलू, हवाई, by a परिवार of संगीतकारों, Mars began बनाना म्यूज़िक at a यंग आयु और performed in विभिन्न musical venues in his hometown throughout his childhood.
he ग्रैजुएट from ऊँची स्कूल और तब स्थानांतरित to Los एंजिल्स, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, to pursue a musical career.
मंगल उत्पादित songs लिये अन्य कलाकारों, joining उत्पादन टोली The smeezingtons.
मंगल था an unsuccessful कार्यावधि साथ Motown Records, but तब हस्ताक्षरित साथ अटलांटिक in 2009.
he became पहचाना as a सोलो कलाकार बाद lending उसके vocals और co-writing the hooks for the songs `` Nothin ' on You `` by b.o.b, और `` अरबपति `` by travie मैककॉय.
He भी co-wrote the हिट्स `` सही Round `` by flo rida featuring ke $ ha, and `` Wavin ' Flag `` by k'naan.
in अक्तूबर 2010, he released his debut एल्बम, Doo-Wops & गुंडों.
Anchored by the विश्वव्यापी number-one singles `` Just the Way You Are `` और `` Grenade ``, the album peaked at क्रमांक तीन on the बिलबोर्ड 200.
मंगल थी nominated for सात grammys at the 53rd ग्रैमी Awards, winning Best पुरूष पॉप गायन Performance लिये `` Just the रास्ता तुम Are ''.
उसके दूसरी studio एल्बम, अपरंपरागत ज्यूकबॉक्स, थी released on दिसम्बर 11, 2012.
Mars ' म्यूज़िक is विख्यात for displaying a wide variety of शैलियाँ और influences, और contains तत्व of अनेक musical जाति.
he has worked with an assortment of artists इससे various जाति.
As a child, he थी अत्यधिक बहकावे by कलाकारों ऐसे as Little Richard, Elvis Presley और Michael जैक्सन और होता प्रायः impersonate ये कलाकारों from a young आयु.
Mars also incorporates रेगी - and motown -inspired sounds into उसके work.
Worldwide, मंगल became the best-selling डिजिटल artist in 2011.
He था तीन singles in the शीर्ष टेन, सहित पहला place with `` बस the Way तुम हैं '', जिससे sold 12.5 million copies.
Mars जीती बेहतरीन अंतरराष्ट्रीय पुरूष सोलो Artist at the 2012 ब्रिट Awards.
Bruno Mars has बेची 6 million एल्बम and 40 लाख singles worldwide as a singer.
althought as a song-writer, producer and सिंगर his total सिंगल download बिक्री surpass 100 लाख विश्वव्यापी.
बस्ट of Zeus, otricoli ( Sala रोटोंडा, museo Pio-Clementino, Vatican ).
यूनानी mythology is the body of मिथकों और शिक्षाओं कि belong to the प्राचीन यूनानियों, concerning उनके देवताओं और नायक, the प्रकृति of the संसार, और the origins and significance of उनके अपना cult and ritual practices.
it was a भाग of the धर्म in प्राचीन यूनानियों और is part of धर्म in आधुनिक Greece और around the संसार, known as Hellenismos.
Modern विद्वानों refer to और study the मिथकों in an attempt to throw लाइट on the धार्मिक और राजनैतिक संस्थानों of Ancient Greece और its civilization, और to लाभ understanding of the प्रकृति of myth-making itself.
यूनानी mythology is explicitly समाविष्ट in a विशाल संग्रहण of कहानियां, और implicitly in Greek representational arts, ऐसे as vase-paintings और votive उपहार.
यूनानी myth attempts to explain the origins of the संसार, और विवरण the जीवनदान और adventures of a चौड़ी किस्में of gods, goddesses, heroes, heroines, और पौराणिक creatures.
ये खाते initially यहूद disseminated in an oral-poetic परंपरा ; today the Greek myths हैं ज्ञात primarily इससे यूनानी साहित्य.
the oldest ज्ञात यूनानी साहित्यिक स्त्रोत, Homer 's epic कविताएं इलियड और Odyssey, फ़ोकस on कार्यक्रम surrounding the Trojan War.
दो कविताएं by होमर 's निकट समकालीन Hesiod, the theogony and the Works और दिनों, contain accounts of the उत्पत्ति of the संसार, the succession of दैवी शासकों, the उत्तराधिकार of इंसान आयु, the origin of human woes, और the origin of sacrificial practices.
मिथकों हैं also preserved in the Homeric hymns, in fragments of एपिक poems of the Epic साईकिल, in lyric कविताएं, in the works of the tragedians of the fifth सदी BC, in writings of विद्वानों and कवियों of the Hellenistic आयु, और in ग्रन्थ इससे the time of the रोमन Empire by लेखक such as Plutarch और Pausanias.
पुरातत्व findings provide a प्रिंसिपल source of विवरण परिचय यूनानी mythology, साथ gods और नायक featured prominently in the सजावट of many artifacts.
ज्यामितीय designs on pottery of the eighth century BC depict scenes इससे the trojan साईकिल as खूब as the adventures of heracles.
in the succeeding archaic, Classical, and hellenistic periods, homeric और विभिन्न अन्य mythological दृश्यों appear, supplementing the existing साहित्यिक प्रमाण.
यूनानी mythology रै था an extensive influence on the संस्कृति, arts, और साहित्य of Western सभ्यता and remains भाग of Western heritage and language.
Poets and artists इससे ancient times to the उपस्थित have निकला inspiration इससे यूनानी mythology और have खोजा समकालीन significance और प्रासंगिकता in the विषयवस्तु.
Mouth & MacNeal in 1971
मुँह & MacNeal was a pop duo from the Netherlands.
They हैं बेहतरीन ज्ञात for their लाख selling रिकॉर्डिंग of `` कैसा do You Do ``.
the Boise State broncos football program represents Boise State विश्वविद्यालयों in college फ़ुटबॉल and compete in the Football Bowl Subdivision ( fbs ) of Division i as a member of the पहाड़ West Conference.
वे are फिलहाल led by सिर coach क्रिस petersen और play उनके घर खेल at bronco स्टेडियम.
the franc ( चिह्न : Fr. or SFr. ; जर्मनी : franken, French और Romansh : फ़्रैंक, इतालवी : franco ; कोड : CHF ) is the करेंसी और legal tender of Switzerland और liechtenstein ; it is also विधिक टेंडर in the इतालवी exclave Campione d'Italia.
Although नहीं formally विधिक टेंडर in the जर्मनी exclave Büsingen ( the sole legal करेंसी is the यूरोपियन ), it is in wide daily उपयोग वहीँ.
The Swiss नेशनल Bank issues banknotes and the संघीय मिंट Swissmint मुद्दे coins.
the स्विस फ़्रैंक is the only version of the franc still issued in यूरोपीय.
the छोटी denomination, a hundredth of a फ़्रैंक, is a Rappen ( Rp. ) in जर्मनी, centime ( c. ) in फ्रेंच, centesimo ( ct. ) in इतालवी, and रैप ( rp. ) in romansh.
The आईएसओ कोड of the करेंसी प्रयुक्त by बैंको और financial institutions is CHF, although `` fr. '' is used by most businesses and विज्ञापनदाता ; some use sfr. ; the latinate `` CH '' स्टैंड लिये Confoederatio Helvetica.
दिए the different languages प्रयुक्त in स्विट्ज़रलैंड, Latin is used लिये language-neutral inscriptions on the सिक्के.
सर Charles स्पेंसर `` Charlie '' चैपलिन, ( 16 अप्रैल 188925 दिसम्बर 1977 ) was a अंग्रेजों कॉमिक कर्ता and filmmaker जो रोज़ to fame in the मूक era.
चैपलिन became a विश्वव्यापी प्रतीक through his स्क्रीन persona `` the Tramp `` and is माना एक of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण आंकड़े of the फिल्मी उद्योग.
उसके career spanned अधिक than 75 सालो, इससे a चाइल्ड in the विक्टोरियन era to बंद to उसके death at the आयु of 88, and encompassed दोनो adulation और विवाद.
उठाया in London, चैपलिन 's childhood थी पारिभाषित by गरीबी और hardship.
He थी sent to a workhouse twice पहले the age of nine ; उसके पिता was absent, and his माँ थी वचनबद्ध to a दिमागी asylum.
चैपलिन began performing from a young आयु, touring म्यूज़िक halls and बाद working as a stage actor और हास्य.
At 19 he was हस्ताक्षरित to the prestigious Fred karno company, which took उसे to America.
Chaplin was scouted by the फिल्मी उद्योग, and made his पहला दिखावे in 1914 with Keystone Studios.
He जल्द विकसित the ट्रैम्प persona और formed a विशाल fan base.
चैपलिन निर्देशित उसके films इससे an early स्टेज, and continued to hone his craft as he moved to the essanay, परस्पर, and First नेशनल corporations.
by 1918, he थी एक of the most famous men in the संसार.
In 1919, Chaplin co-founded the वितरण कम्पनी संयुक्त Artists, giving उसे complete कंट्रोल over his films.
उसके पहला feature-length picture थी the बच्चा ( 1921 ), followed by a स्त्री of पेरिस ( 1923 ), The Gold फटाफट ( 1925 ), और the सर्कस ( 1928 ).
He refused to move to sound films in the 1930s, instead producing नगर Lights ( 1931 ) और आधुनिक Times ( 1936 ) बगैर संवाद.
Chaplin became increasingly राजनैतिक and his अगला फिल्मी, the Great तानाशाह ( 1940 ), satirised Adolf हिटलर.
the 1940s थी a decade चिह्नित साथ controversy लिये चैपलिन, और उसके लोकप्रियता अस्वीकृत rapidly.
he was अभियुक्त of communist sympathies, जबकि his involvement in a paternity सूट and विवाह to much younger महिलाओं यहूद माना scandalous.
an एफबीआई छानबीन थी खोली on चैपलिन, and he was आखिरकार forced to leave the United राज्य और settle in Switzerland.
He abandoned the ट्रैम्प for his later films, जिससे include Monsieur verdoux ( 1947 ), Limelight ( 1952 ), A किंग in नई यॉर्क ( 1957 ), और A countess इससे हांग Kong ( 1967 ).
Chaplin wrote, निर्देशित, उत्पादित, edited, scored, and starred in most of his films.
He थी a perfectionist, और उसके वित्तीय independence meant he often spent सालो on the विकास और उत्पादन of a चित्र.
उसके films are characterised by slapstick संयुक्त साथ pathos, और प्रायः विशेषता the ट्रैम्प struggling विरूद्ध adversity.
Many contain सोशल and राजनैतिक विषयवस्तु, as खूब as autobiographical तत्व.
in 1972, as part of a नवीनीकृत सराहना लिये उसके कार्य, चैपलिन प्राप्त an Honorary Academy Award for `` the incalculable प्रभाव he रै था in making motion pictures the art रूप of this सदी ''.
he continues to be आयोजित in ऊँची लिहाज़, with the Gold फटाफट, नगर लाइट्स, आधुनिक Times, और the Great Dictator प्रायः क्रमित among the महानतम films of all समय.
Planned Parenthood संघ of अमेरिका ( ppfa ), commonly shortened to Planned Parenthood, is the u.S. affiliate of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय नियोजित Parenthood संघ ( ippf ) और one of इसके larger सदस्यों.
ppfa is a non-profit संगठन providing reproductive स्वास्थ्य and मातृ और चाइल्ड health सेवाएं.
the नियोजित parenthood कार्रवाई Fund, Inc. ( PPAF ) is a सम्बन्धित संगठन which lobbies for pro-choice विधान, व्यापक sex शिक्षा, and अभिगम to सस्ती स्वास्थ्य परवाह in the संयुक्त राज्य.
नियोजित parenthood is the largest u.S. प्रदाता of reproductive स्वास्थ्य सेवाएं, सहित cancer स्क्रीनिंग, hiv स्क्रीनिंग and counseling, निरोधक, and गर्भपात.
निरोधक खाते लिये 35 % of ppfa 's कुल सेवाएं और abortions खाता लिये 3 % ; ppfa conducts roughly 300,000 abortions प्रत्येक year, among 3 लाख people परोसा.
the संगठन has इसके जड़ें in Brooklyn, नई York, जहाँ मार्गरेट सैंगर खोली the country 's first birth-control clinic.
सैंगर founded the अमरीकी जनम कंट्रोल League in 1921, जिससे in 1942 became भाग of the नियोजित parenthood संघ of अमेरिका.
चूंकि तब, नियोजित Parenthood has grown to have over 820 clinic स्थितियाँ in the u.S., with a total बजट of us $ 1 अरब.
ppfa provides an सरणी of सेवाएं to over तीन लाख लोगों in the United States, और supports services for over एक million क्लाइंट बाहर the United राज्य.
Mens rea is लैटिन for `` अपराधी mind ''.
in criminal विधि, it is viewed as one of the जरुरी तत्व of कुछ अपराधों.
the मानक आम law test of दण्ड देयता is प्रायः expressed in the लैटिन phrase, actus non facit reum nisi mens बैठना rea, which अर्थात् `` the act is not culpable जबतक the दिमाग is guilty ''.
यूँ, in jurisdictions साथ due प्रक्रम, there जरूर be an actus reus, or `` अपराधी act, '' accompanied by कुछ स्तर of mens rea to constitute the अपराधों साथ जिससे the प्रतिवादी is चार्ज ( देखिए the technical आवश्यकता of concurrence ).
as a सामान्य नियम, criminal देयता करता नहीं attach to a व्यक्ति who acted साथ the absence of दिमागी fault.
the एक्सेप्शन is सख्त देयता crimes.
In civil विधि, it is प्रायः not जरुरी to prove a subjective दिमागी element to establish देयता लिये उल्लंघन of अनुबंध or tort, लिये example.
however, if a अपकृत्य is intentionally committed or a contract is intentionally breached, such intent may increase the पैमाना of देयता as well as the measure of क्षतिपूर्ति देय to the plaintiff.
Therefore, mens rea refers to the mental तत्व of the offence कि accompanies the actus reus.
in कुछ jurisdictions, the terms पुरुषों rea and actus reus have महरूम replaced by alternative शब्दावली.
in Australia, लिये example, the elements of the federal offences हैं अभी designated as `` fault तत्व '' or `` दिमागी तत्व '' ( mens rea ) and `` शारीरिक elements '' or `` बाह्य तत्व '' ( actus reus ).
This शब्दावली थी अपनाया to बदलें the अस्पष्टता of the लैटिन terms with simple और सटीक phrasing.
ulysses S. ग्रान्ट ( born Hiram Ulysses ग्रान्ट ; April 27, 1822 – जुलाई 23, 1885 ) was the 18th अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य ( 1869–1877 ) following उसके highly successful भूमिका as a war general in the second हाफ of the Civil युद्ध.
Under ग्रान्ट, the संघ Army defeated the confederate सैन्य ; having effectively ended the war and secession साथ the आत्मसमर्पण of रॉबर्ट E. Lee 's फौज at appomattox.
As president he led the Radical republicans in उनके प्रयत्न to eliminate all vestiges of Confederate nationalism and गुलामी.
Upset over uncontrolled हिंसा in the South और having desired to protect African अमरीकी नागरिकता, अध्यक्ष ग्रान्ट effectively destroyed the ku klux क्लान in 1871.
ग्रान्ट was the पहला अध्यक्ष to स्थापित Civil सेवा reform having निर्मित a two-year federally funded सिविल सेवा आयोग in 1871.
In शर्तें of foreign नीति, ग्रान्ट revealed an `` अनपेक्षित क्षमता लिये deliberation and परामर्श '' that प्रचारित the नेशनल interest.
His प्रतिष्ठा थी marred by उसके दोहराया रक्षा of corrupt appointees, and by America 's पहला औद्योगिक आयु आर्थिक अवसाद ( पुकारा the `` दहशत of 1873 `` ) कि वर्चस्व his second पद.
हालांकि उसके Republican पार्टी विभाजित in 1872 साथ reformers denouncing him, Grant थी easily reelected.
By 1875 the रूढ़िवादी श्वेत दक्षिणी opposition regained control of every राज्य in the South and as he left the White हाउस in March 1877 उसके policies were होने undone.
A करियर सिपाही, he ग्रैजुएट इससे the United राज्य Military अकादमी at वेस्ट पाइंट and served in the Mexican–American War.
जब the सिविल War began in 1861, Grant trained संघ स्वयंसेवी regiments in Illinois.
in 1862, as a सामान्य he लड़ा a श्रेणी of battles and was promoted to major सामान्य after forcing the आत्मसमर्पण of a विशाल Confederate फौज और gaining कंट्रोल of केंटकी and सबसे of Tennessee.
he तब led Union शक्तियां to विजय after आरंभिक setbacks in the बैटल of shiloh, कमाई a प्रतिष्ठा as an aggressive कमांडर.
In जुलाई 1863, बाद a long, जटिल अभियान, Grant पराजित पाँच uncoordinated confederate सेना ( capturing एक of उन्हें ) और जब्त vicksburg.
इस प्रसिद्ध विजय दिया the संघ full कंट्रोल of the Mississippi नदी, विभाजित off the western confederacy, और opened the way लिये अधिक संघ triumphs.
After another win at the बैटल of चट्टानूगा in लेट 1863, अध्यक्ष अब्राहम lincoln बना him लेफ्टिनेंट सामान्य and commander of सब of the संघ सेना.
As commanding general of the फौज, ग्रान्ट confronted Robert E. ली in a series of very खूनी लड़ाइयों in 1864 known as the Overland अभियान that ended साथ the bottling up of Lee at पीटर्सबर्ग, outside the confederate पूंजी of रिचमंड.
दौरान the siege, ग्रान्ट coordinated a श्रेणी of विनाशकारी campaigns launched by William Tecumseh Sherman, फिलिप sheridan, और जार्ज थामस.
आखिरकार breaking through ली 's trenches, the संघ Army captured रिचमंड in अप्रैल 1865.
ली surrendered his depleted forces to ग्रान्ट at Appomattox as the confederacy collapsed.
हालांकि pro-Confederate इतिहासकारों attacked Grant as a ruthless butcher जो won by brute force, most historians have hailed उसके सैन्य genius.
ग्रान्ट 's two consecutive terms as अध्यक्ष stabilized the स्वदेश बाद the American सिविल युद्ध और दौरान the turbulent Reconstruction काल that followed.
As अध्यक्ष, he enforced पुनर्निर्माण by enforcing सिविल अधिकारों कानून and लड़ ku klux Klan violence.
ग्रान्ट जीती ड्योढ़ी of the Fifteenth amendment ; giving constitutional सुरक्षा लिये african-american मतदान अधिकारों.
He प्रयुक्त the फौज to निर्माण the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी in the दक्षिण, आधारित on ब्लैक voters, उत्तरी newcomers ( `` carpetbaggers `` ) and native श्वेत समर्थक ( `` Scalawags. '' )
as a result, African Americans were represented in the U.S. कॉंग्रेस लिये the first समय in अमरीकी इतिहास in 1870.
reformers praised ग्रान्ट 's भारतीय peace नीति by having टूटा the deadlock on Indian appropriations in Congress, the सृष्टि of the फलक of भारतीय commissioners to मेक reform recommendations, and उसके enlistment of quaker Protestants जो नियंत्रित मिड western Indian एजेंसियों, that effectively curbed Congressional patronage.
ग्रान्ट remained संकल्पित in keeping इंडियंस from होने exterminated from श्वेत settler encroachment or by the u.S. military.
ग्रान्ट 's reputation as president by 1875 was at an all-time high लिये his previous वीटो of the Inflation विधेयक, the passage of the resumption of Specie Act, and सचिव Bristow 's कामयाब छापे कि shut down the whiskey रिंग.
Grant 's विदेशी नीति, led by सचिव of राज्य Hamilton Fish, implemented अंतरराष्ट्रीय मध्यस्थता, settled the Alabama दावा साथ Britain और avoided war with Spain over the Virginius affair.
A jukebox is a partially स्वचालित music-playing यंत्र, प्रायः a coin-operated machine, कि will खेल a संरक्षक 's चयन इससे self-contained मीडिया.
the क्लासिक jukebox has बटन साथ अक्षर और numbers on them that, जब entered in combination, are प्रयुक्त to खेल a specific चयन.
a drug test is a technical analysis of a biological specimen – for example मूत्र, बाल, रक्त, sweat, or मौखिक द्रव / saliva – to determine the उपस्थिति or अनुपस्थिति of निर्दिष्ट parent दवाएँ or their metabolites.
प्रमुख उपयोग of drug testing हैं to detect the उपस्थिति of प्रदर्शन enhancing steroids in खेल or for दवाएँ prohibited by कानून, ऐसे as cannabis, कोका और हेरोइन.
a `` 10-panel मूत्र स्क्रीन '' consists of the following:
Amphetamines ( including methamphetamine )
Barbiturates
Benzodiazepines
Cannabinoids ( thc )
कोका
Methadone
Methaqualone
Opiates ( Codeine, मॉरफीन, Heroin, oxycodone, hydrocodone, इत्यादि. )
phencyclidine ( PCP )
Propoxyphene
शनि v प्रक्षेपास्त्र, used लिये the अमरीकी मानवयुक्त lunar landing missions
Space exploration is the डिस्कवरी और खोजी of बाहरी स्पेस by अर्थात् of स्पेस प्रौद्योगिकी.
Physical खोजी of space is conducted दोनो by इंसान spaceflights and by robotic spacecraft.
जबकि the अवलोकन of वस्तुएँ in स्पेस, ज्ञात as खगोलशास्त्र, predates reliable recorded इतिहास, it was the development of विशाल और relatively efficient rockets during the जल्दी 20th सदी कि अनुमत शारीरिक स्पेस खोजी to become a वास्तविकता.
आम rationales लिये exploring स्पेस शामिल advancing वैज्ञानिक research, uniting अलग nations, ensuring the भविष्य अस्तित्व of humanity and developing सैन्य and strategic लाभ विरूद्ध other देशों.
विभिन्न आलोचनाओं of स्पेस खोजी हैं sometimes made.
Space exploration has often महरूम प्रयुक्त as a proxy competition लिये geopolitical rivalries such as the Cold युद्ध.
The early era of स्पेस exploration थी चलित by a `` Space रेस `` between the सोवियत संघ और the संयुक्त States, the launch of the first man-made object to कक्षा the Earth, the ussr 's Sputnik 1, on 4 अक्तूबर 1957, and the पहला चंद्रमा लैंडिंग by the अमरीकी Apollo 11 शिल्प on 20 July 1969 are often taken as the सीमाएँ for this initial काल.
The सोवियत space कार्यक्रम हासिल अनेक of the पहला milestones, सहित the first living होने in orbit in 1957, the पहला इंसान spaceflight ( Yuri Gagarin सवार वोस्तोक 1 ) in 1961, the first spacewalk ( by aleksei Leonov ) on 18 March 1965, the first automatic landing on another celestial देह in 1966, and the लॉन्च of the पहला स्पेस स्टेशन ( Salyut 1 ) in 1971.
बाद the first 20 years of exploration, फ़ोकस shifted इससे one-off फ़्लाइट to बेदर्दी hardware, ऐसे as the Space शटल program, और from competition to सहयोग as साथ the International स्पेस स्टेशन ( iss ).
साथ the substantial पूर्णता of the ISS following sts-133 in March 2011, योजनाएँ for स्पेस खोजी by the USA remain in फ्लक्स.
Constellation, a बुश Administration कार्यक्रम for a वापसी to the चंद्रमा by 2020 was judged inadequately funded और unrealistic by an expert पुनर्विलोकन panel रिपोर्टिंग in 2009.
the ओबामा प्रशासन प्रस्तावित a revision of Constellation in 2010 to फ़ोकस on the विकास of the काबिलियत for crewed मिशन beyond कम धरती कक्षा ( leo ), envisioning extending the आपरेशन of the iss परे 2020, transferring the विकास of launch वाहनों लिये human क्रू इससे नासा to the निजी sector, और developing प्रौद्योगिकी to enable missions to परे leo, ऐसे as Earth/Moon l1, the Moon, earth/sun l2, near-earth asteroids, और phobos or मंगल orbit.
as of March 2011, the us Senate और हाउस of प्रतिनिधि हैं स्टिल working towards a compromise नासा funding विधेयक, which will probably terminate Constellation and fund development of a भारी लिफ्ट लॉन्च vehicle ( HLLV ).
in the 2000s, the लोगों 's Republic of चीन initiated a कामयाब manned spaceflight program, while the European संघ, जापानी, and India have भी नियोजित भविष्य मानवयुक्त स्पेस missions.
China, Russia, Japan, और इण्डिया have advocated मानवयुक्त missions to the चंद्रमा दौरान the 21st century, while the यूरोपीय Union रै advocated मानवयुक्त missions to दोनो the चंद्रमा और मंगल दौरान the 21st सदी.
इससे the 1990s onwards, private interests began promoting space पर्यटन and then निजी स्पेस exploration of the चंद्रमा ( देखिए google चंद्र x Prize ).
जॉन calvin कूलिज, jr. ( जुलाई 4, 1872january 5, 1933 ) was the 30th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1923–1929 ).
a Republican वकील इससे वर्मांट, कूलिज worked उसके रास्ता up the ladder of Massachusetts राज्य politics, आखिरकार becoming governor of कि state.
His conduct during the बोस्टन पुलिस स्ट्राइक of 1919 thrust उसे into the नेशनल spotlight और gave उसे a प्रतिष्ठा as a man of निर्णायक कार्रवाई.
Soon after, he थी निर्वाचित as the 29th वाइस President in 1920 and succeeded to the प्रेसिडेंसी upon the sudden death of वारेन G. Harding in 1923.
निर्वाचित in his अपना सही in 1924, he gained a प्रतिष्ठा as a small-government conservative, और भी as a man जो said very छोटी.
कूलिज restored public confidence in the श्वेत हाउस after the scandals of his predecessor 's प्रशासन, and left दफ्तर साथ considerable लोकप्रियता.
as a Coolidge biographer put it, `` he embodied the spirit और उम्मीदें of the middle class, could interpret उनके longings और एक्स्प्रेस उनके राय.
कि he किया represent the प्रतिभाशाली of the औसत is the most convincing प्रमाण of उसके शक्ति. ''
कुछ बाद criticized कूलिज as भाग of a सामान्य criticism of laissez-faire सरकारी.
His reputation underwent a पुनर्जागरण during the रोनाल्ड Reagan प्रशासन, लकिन the परम मूल्यांकन of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी is still विभाजित between those जो स्वीकृति of his reduction of the आकार of government कार्यक्रम and those जो believe the federal सरकारी चाहिए be अधिक शामिल in regulating and controlling the economy.
एस्प्रेसो is a concentrated पेय brewed by forcing a small amount of nearly खौलते जल under pressure through finely मैदान कॉफी सेम.
एस्प्रेसो प्रायः has a thicker संगति than कॉफी brewed by other methods, a उच्चतर विशेषज्ञता of suspended and dissolved solids, और crema ( अर्थ मलाई, but being a सन्दर्भ to the झाग साथ a creamy बनावट कि forms as a परिणाम of the pressure ).
As a result of the pressurized brewing process the जायका and रसायन in a typical कप of एस्प्रेसो हैं very concentrated.
एस्प्रेसो is the base for अन्य पेय, such as a latte, कापुचीनो, macchiato, मोचा, or americano.
एस्प्रेसो रै more कैफीन प्रति unit volume than सबसे beverages, लकिन the usual सेवारत आकार is smaller—a typical 60 ml ( 2 US द्रव ounce ) of एस्प्रेसो रै 80 to 150 mg of caffeine, little कम than the 95 to 200 mg of a मानक 240 ml ( 8 us द्रव ounces ) cup of drip-brewed कॉफी.
Brian कैथ Kelly ( born अक्तूबर 25, 1961 ) is an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल कोच और पूर्व player.
he is फिलहाल the सिर फ़ुटबॉल coach लिये the notre Dame लड़ आयरिश, a position he has आयोजित चूंकि दिसम्बर 2009.
केली थी previously सिर कोच at Grand घाटी State विश्वविद्यालयों ( 1991–2003 ), Central मिशिगन विश्वविद्यालयों ( 2004–2006 ), और University of Cincinnati ( 2006–2009 ).
A अनुबंध is an अनुबंध having a lawful object entered into voluntarily by two or अधिक पार्टियों, प्रत्येक of जिसको intends to बनाएँ one or more legal दायित्वों between उन्हें.
the तत्व of a अनुबंध हैं `` offer '' and `` स्वीकृति '' by `` competent व्यक्तियों '' having विधिक क्षमता जो एक्सचेंज `` विचार '' to बनाएँ `` mutuality of दायित्व. ''
Proof of some or सब of ये तत्व may be किया in writing, though अनुबंध may be made entirely orally or by conduct.
the remedy for breach of contract can be `` damages '' in the form of मुआवजे of money or विशिष्ट performance enforced through an आदेश.
Both of ये remedies award the पार्टी at loss the `` लाभ of the सौदेबाजी '' or अपेक्षा damages, which are वृहद than mere रिलायंस damages, as in promissory estoppel.
The parties may be प्राकृतिक व्यक्तियों or juristic व्यक्तियों.
A अनुबंध is a legally enforceable वादा or undertaking that कुछ होगा or will not occur.
the शब्द promise can be प्रयुक्त as a legal synonym for अनुबंध, हालांकि care is जरूरी as a वादा may नहीं have the full खड़ा of a contract, as when it is an अनुबंध without consideration.
अनुबंध law varies greatly from एक jurisdiction to another, सहित मतभेद in आम विधि compared to civil law, the प्रभाव of प्राप्त law, particularly from England in आम विधि countries, and of विधि संहिताबद्ध in regional legislation.
regarding ऑस्ट्रेलियाई अनुबंध विधि लिये उदाहरण, there are 40 प्रासंगिक acts जिससे प्रभाव on the निर्वचन of contract at the Commonwealth ( संघीय / national ) स्तर, and an अतिरिक्त 26 acts at the स्तर of the state of NSW.
In जोड वहीँ हैं 6 अंतरराष्ट्रीय instruments or conventions जिससे are applicable for international dealings, such as the United Nations सम्मेलन on अनुबंध लिये the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Sale of Goods.
sidney पैट्रिक Crosby, ons ( born अगस्त 7, 1987 ) is a कनाडाई पेशेवर ice हॉकी player जो is captain of the पिट्सबर्ग Penguins of the नेशनल Hockey League ( एनएचएल ).
crosby थी drafted पहला overall by the penguins आउट of the Quebec प्रमुख Junior Hockey लीग ( QMJHL ).
दौरान उसके two-year major junior करियर साथ the rimouski océanic, he अर्जित back-to-back CHL Player of the साल awards और led his क्लबों to the 2005 मेमोरियल Cup फाइनल.
nicknamed `` the Next एक ``, he थी एक of the सबसे अत्यधिक regarded ड्राफ्ट चयन in हॉकी history, leading many to refer to the 2005 ड्राफ्ट लॉटरी as the `` Sidney crosby sweepstakes ''.
in उसके पहला NHL ऋतु, crosby समाप्त छठे in लीग स्कोरिंग साथ 102 अंक ( 39 लक्ष्य, 63 assists ) and थी a runner-up for the Calder मेमोरियल ट्रॉफी ( जीती by Alexander ovechkin ).
By उसके दूसरी ऋतु, he led the NHL साथ 120 अंक ( 36 goals, 84 assists ) to capture the आर्ट रॉस ट्रॉफी, becoming the youngest खिलाड़ी और the तभी किशोरावस्था to जीत a स्कोरिंग शीर्षक in any major उत्तर American खेल league.
कि same ऋतु, crosby भी जीती the Hart मेमोरियल Trophy as the पेशेवर Hockey लेखक संघ 's choice लिये सबसे valuable player and the लेस्टर B. पियर्सन पुरस्कार as the NHL खिलाड़ी Association 's चुनाव लिये सबसे बकाया खिलाड़ी, बनने the seventh खिलाड़ी in NHL इतिहास to earn सब three awards in one साल.
Crosby started the 2007–08 season साथ the team 's captaincy and subsequently led them to the 2008 स्टेनली Cup फाइनल, where वे यहूद defeated by the Detroit रेड विंग्स in six games.
The penguins लौटे to the फाइनल against डेट्रॉयट the following year and जीती in seven खेल ; crosby became the youngest कप्तान in एनएचएल history to जीत the स्टेनली कप.
in the 2009–10 ऋतु, crosby scored a career-high 51 लक्ष्य, tying उसे साथ स्टीवन stamkos for the प्रक्षेपास्त्र Richard ट्रॉफी as the league-leader ; साथ 58 assists, he totaled 109 points, दूसरी in the NHL.
दौरान the off-season, Crosby received the Mark मेसियर नेतृत्व पुरस्कार.
in 2010–11, Crosby sustained a concussion as a परिणाम of हिट्स to the सिर in back-to-back games.
The injury बाएँ उसे sidelined for टेन और a half महीने.
however, बाद playing आठ खेल in the 2011–12 ऋतु, crosby 's concussion-like symptoms लौटे in दिसम्बर 2011, और he किया नहीं वापसी until mid-march 2012.
Internationally, Crosby रै represented Canada in numerous tournaments for the country 's junior and मेन 's टीमों.
After स्पर्धा in the 2003 u-18 Junior संसार कप, he represented Canada in back-to-back iihf संसार U20 Championships, winning चांदी in 2004 और सुनहरा in 2005.
at the 2006 iihf संसार Championship, he led the टूर्नामेंट in स्कोरिंग, जबकि also earning शीर्ष आगे और all-star टोली honours.
चार सालो later, crosby थी named to टोली Canada लिये the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver.
playing the संयुक्त राज्य in the सुनहरा पदक game, he scored the game-winning goal in ओवरटाइम.
a संयुक्त राज्य cent, also ज्ञात as a पैनी.
`` my दो सेंट '' ( 2¢ ) और its longer संस्करण `` put my दो cents in '' is an United राज्य ( us ) idiomatic अभिव्यक्ति, लिया इससे the असली अंग्रेज़ी idiom expression : to put in `` my two कौड़ी लायक '' or `` my tuppence लायक. ''
It is प्रयुक्त to preface the अंतरिम stating of one’s opinion.
By विरोधात्मक the राय to follow – suggesting its मान is तभी two सेंट, a बहुत छोटी amount – the उपयोक्ता of the phrase hopes to lessen the प्रभाव of a संभवतः बयान, प्रर्दशित politeness और विनम्रता.
however, it is भी sometimes used with विडंबना जब expressing a strongly felt राय.
The phrase is also used out of आदत to preface uncontentious राय.
लिये example:
the Chinese सिविल War was a सिविल war in चीन fought between forces loyal to the government of the गणतंत्र of चीन led by the kuomintang ( kmt ) और शक्तियां of the कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी of चीन ( CPC ).
the war began in अप्रैल 1927, amidst the उत्तरी expedition, और essentially ended जब major क्रियाशील battles ceased in 1950.
The विरोध आखिरकार resulted in दो de facto states, the Republic of China ( ROC ) in ताईवान और the लोगों 's Republic of चीन ( पीआरसी ) in मेनलैंड चीन, दोनो claiming to be the legitimate government of चीन.
the युद्ध represented an वैचारिक split ( Left vs. Right ) between the Communist CPC, and the kmt 's ब्रांड of Nationalism.
the सिविल war continued intermittently until लेट 1937, जब the two parties formed a Second संयुक्त Front to काउंटर a जापानी invasion.
China 's full-scale सिविल युद्ध resumed in 1946, a year बाद the समाप्त of hostilities साथ जापानी.
After four more years, 1950 देखी the cessation of प्रमुख सैन्य hostilities—with the newly founded People 's Republic of China controlling मेनलैंड चीन ( including Hainan ), और the गणतंत्र of China 's क्षेत्राधिकार being प्रतिबंधित to ताईवान, Penghu, quemoy, matsu और several outlying islands.
The Kuomintang defeat is attributed to several कारकों : Corruption - Chiang लिखा in his diary on जून 1948 that the kmt था failed, नहीं क्युकी of बाह्य दुश्मनों but क्युकी of rot from within.
दमदार initial support from the u.S. diminished, और तब, रोका.
( partly क्युकी of kmt भ्रष्टाचार and anti-democratic regime, और partly क्युकी of the अनिश्चित u.S. विदेशी policy towards Communism between 1945 and 1950 ) ; Communist जमीन reform policy promised poor peasants farmland इससे उनके landlords.
इस ensured PLA लोकप्रिय support.
After the surrender of Japan at the end of संसार War ii, सोवियत शक्तियां turned over their captured जापानी हथियार to the cpc और allowed the CPC to take control of territory in मंचूरिया.
to इस day, no armistice or सलाम treaty has कभी महरूम signed, और it is debated as to the whether the सिविल War has legally ended.
Cross-Strait संबंध have been hindered by सैन्य खतरे और राजनैतिक and आर्थिक pressure, विशेषकर over Taiwan 's राजनैतिक status, साथ both सरकारें officially adhering to a `` one-china नीति. ''
the पीआरसी still actively दावा ताईवान as भाग of इसके territory और continues to threaten the ROC साथ a सैन्य invasion if the आरओसी officially declares independence by बदलना इसके name to और gaining अंतरराष्ट्रीय मान्यता as the गणतंत्र of ताईवान.
the आरओसी mutually दावा mainland चीन, और वे दोनो continue the fight over diplomatic मान्यता.
आज, the युद्ध as such occurs on the राजनैतिक और आर्थिक fronts in the रूप of cross-strait संबंध ; however, the दो पृथक de facto राज्य have close economic ties.
the One Hundred बारहवीं संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस थी the बैठक of the legislative branch of the संयुक्त राज्य संघीय government, इससे जनवरी 3, 2011 until जनवरी 3, 2013.
it convened in वॉशिंगटन, D.C. on January 3, 2011, और ended on January 3, 2013, 17 दिनों before the end of the अध्यक्षीय term to जिससे Barack ओबामा was elected in 2008.
सीनेटरों elected to regular terms in 2006 समाप्त those शर्तें in इस कॉंग्रेस.
This कॉंग्रेस शामिल the last हाउस of प्रतिनिधि निर्वाचित इससे congressional जिले that were apportioned आधारित on the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
In the 2010 मध्यावधि चुनावों, the Republican पार्टी won the बहुमत in the House of प्रतिनिधि.
While the डेमोक्रेट रखा उनके सीनेट बहुमत, it थी घटाया from the पिछला Congress.
इस थी the पहला कॉंग्रेस in which the हाउस और Senate were नियंत्रित by अलग parties चूंकि the 107th Congress ( 2001–2003 ), and the पहला कॉंग्रेस to begin that रास्ता चूंकि the 99th कॉंग्रेस ( 1985–1987 ).
In इस Congress, the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि had the largest क्रमांक of रिपब्लिकन सदस्यों, 242, since the 80th कॉंग्रेस ( 1947–1949 ).
It थी also the पहला कॉंग्रेस since 1947 in जिससे no सदस्य of the Kennedy परिवार परोसा, as खूब as the most politically polarized कॉंग्रेस चूंकि पुनर्निर्माण, साथ record low स्वीकृति ratings.
Wealth in the संयुक्त राज्य is commonly measured in शर्तें of जाल लायक, जिससे is the योग of all assets, सहित घर equity, ऋण सब liabilities.
The total जाल worth of us households and nonprofit संगठन 1945–2009, unadjusted for महंगाई or जनसांख्यिकी change.
For उदाहरण, a household in कब्ज़ा of an $ 800,000 हाउस, $ 5,000 in परस्पर funds, $ 30,000 in गाड़ियाँ, $ 20,000 worth of stock in उनके अपना कम्पनी, and a $ 45,000 ira होता have एसेट totaling $ 900,000.
assuming कि इस household होता have a $ 250,000 mortgage, $ 40,000 in car लोन, and $ 10,000 in credit कार्ड debt, इसके debts would कुल $ 300,000.
subtracting the debts इससे the लायक of इस household 's एसेट ( 900,000 - $ 300,000 = $ 600,000 ), this household होता have a net worth of $ 600,000.
Net worth can vary साथ fluctuations in value of the underlying assets.
the माल —more specifically, the median net worth—of households in the संयुक्त राज्य is varied with संबंध to रेस, education, geographic location और लिंग.
as एक होता expect, households साथ greater income विशेषता the उच्चतम जाल worths, though ऊँची income can नहीं be taken as an always सटीक indicator of जाल worth.
Overall the number of wealthier households is on the वृद्धि, साथ baby boomers hitting the highs of their करियर.
in जोड, माल is unevenly distributed, with the wealthiest 25 % of US households owning 87 % of the wealth in the संयुक्त States, जिससे was $ 54.2 खरब in 2009.
सहित human पूंजी such as कौशल, the संयुक्त Nations estimated the कुल माल of the संयुक्त राज्य in 2008 to be $ 118 trillion.
इस आलेख सौदे साथ Selective पृष्ठीय Rhizotomy ( sdr ) rather than the rhizotomy प्रक्रियाओं लिये pain राहत ; लिये those procedures, which have begun to लो the नाम `` rhizotomy '' in certain instances, see facet rhizotomy and समान.
a rhizotomy ( ) is a पद chiefly referring to a neurosurgical कार्यविधि that selectively destroys problematic nerve जड़ें in the स्पाइनल cord, most often to relieve the लक्षण of neuromuscular conditions ऐसे as spastic diplegia और other forms of spastic दिमागी palsy.
the selective पृष्ठीय rhizotomy ( SDR ) for spastic cerebral palsy रै been the main उपयोग of rhizotomy लिये neurosurgeons specialising in spastic cp चूंकि the 1980s ; in इस सर्जरी, the spasticity-causing nerves are पृथक और तब targeted और नष्ट.
The sensory तंत्रिका जड़ें, where spasticity is located, are first अलग इससे the motor ones, and the तंत्रिका fibres to be काटें हैं तब identified via electromyographic उत्तेजनाओं.
the ones producing spasticity हैं then selectively lesioned with छोटा विद्युत pulses.
in spasticity, rhizotomy precisely लक्ष्य and नष्ट the क्षतिग्रस्त nerves कि don’t receive गामा अमीनो butyric एसिड, which is the core प्रॉब्लम for लोगों with spastic दिमागी palsy.
ये over-firing, non-gaba-absorbing nerves generate असामान्य विद्युत कार्यकलाप दौरान the emg परीक्षण phase in sdr और हैं thus considered to be the सोर्स of the रोगी 's hypertonia ; वे are eliminated साथ the विद्युत pulses एकबार पहचाना, जबकि the बाकी nerves और nerve रूट carrying the correct messages remain fully intact और untouched.
इस अर्थात् कि the spasticity is permanently dissolved, और कि this is done without affecting बेचैन प्रणाली संवेदनशीलता or function in अन्य क्षेत्रों, क्युकी the तभी nerves नष्ट are the over-firing ones जिम्मेदार for the मांसपेशी tightness.
the terms rhizotomy और neurotomy हैं also increasingly becoming interchangeable in the उपचार of chronic वापस पीड़ा इससे degenerative डिस्क बीमारी.
इस is a procedure called a facet rhizotomy और is नहीं a surgical कार्यविधि लकिन is बजाय done on an outpatient basis using a सरल जांच to लागू radiofrequency waves to the impinged pain-causing तंत्रिका root lying between the facet संयुक्त और the vertebral देह.
ऐसे radio frequency तंत्रिका lesioning results in five to आठ or अधिक महीने of पीड़ा राहत पहले the nerve regenerates and another round of the कार्यविधि needs to be performed.
A facet rhizotomy is just एक of अनेक अलग forms of radiofrequency ablation, and इसके उपयोग of the `` rhizotomy '' नाम चाहिए not be उलझन साथ the sdr procedure.
migrant मजदूर in कैलिफ़ोर्निया, 1935
The पद migrant कार्यकर्ता has अलग आधिकारिक meanings और connotations in अलग भाग of the संसार.
the संयुक्त राष्ट्र ' परिभाषा is broad, including कोई people working outside of their घर देश.
The पद can भी be प्रयुक्त to describe someone जो migrates within a देश, possibly उनके अपना, in अनुक्रम to pursue कार्य ऐसे as seasonal कार्य.
Photograph of Lil Wayne साथ teardrop टैटू below his eyes.
The teardrop टैटू or आंसू tattoo is a सांकेतिक टैटू कि is placed underneath the eye.
it रै no फिक्स्ड अर्थ लकिन लगभग सब meanings ( see नीचे ) have some कनेक्शन to थाना.
u.S. रूट 75 is a north–south u.S. राजमार्ग.
The राजमार्ग 's उत्तरी terminus is in kittson County, मिनेसोटा, at the Canadian किनारा, where it once जारी as Manitoba राजमार्ग 75 on the अन्य side of the now-closed किनारा crossing.
Its दक्षिणी टर्मिनस is at Interstate 30 और Interstate 45 in डलास, Texas, जहाँ it is ज्ञात as उत्तर Central एक्सप्रेसवे.
u.S. 75 was a border-to-border रूट, इससे Canada to the Gulf of मैक्सिको at galveston, Texas.
however, the संपूर्ण segment दक्षिण of डलास, Texas रै been decommissioned in favor of Interstate 45, a कटऑफ खण्ड of town-to-town सतह सड़क having become State राजमार्ग 75.
Lower Ninth वार्ड is a पड़ोस of the city of New ऑरलियन्स.
as the नाम implies, it is part of the नवीं वार्ड of नई ऑरलियन्स.
the Lower नवीं वार्ड is प्रायः विचार of as the संपूर्ण क्षेत्रफल within नई Orleans downriver of the औद्योगिक Canal ; however, the नगर नियोजन आयोग divides इस area into the Lower Ninth Ward ( 2 ) और पावन Cross ( 3 ) neighborhoods.
the term `` निम्नतर '' refers to इसके स्थान दूर towards the mouth of the मिसिसिपी नदी, `` down '' or `` नीचे '' the बाकी of the नगर in local भौगोलिक शब्दावली.
लकिन the 9th Ward, like all wards in नई ऑरलियन्स, is a मतदान ज़िला.
the 9th Ward was added as a voting district in 1852.
The `` निम्नतर '' 9th वार्ड is रचित of वार्ड 9 जिले 1, 2, 4, और 7 which make up the Holy क्रॉस क्षेत्रफल और वार्ड 9 जिले 3, 5, 6, and 8.
Higher मतदान district numbers in the 9th Ward ( 8-27 ) हैं on the upriver side of the औद्योगिक कनाल.
the क्षेत्रफल came to national ध्यान for इसके devastation in the aftermath of hurricane कैटरीना in 2005.
हबल views of Copernicus crater ( इनसेट ), जिससे is about 58 मील ( 93 km ) चौड़ी
रेड और नारंगी tinted चंद्रमा, as seen इससे धरती दौरान a चंद्र eclipse, where the Earth आता between the चंद्रमा and Sun
the Moon is the तभी प्राकृतिक satellite of the Earth, and the fifth largest उपग्रह in the सौर प्रणाली.
it is the largest प्राकृतिक satellite of a ग्रह in the Solar प्रणाली relative to the size of इसके primary, having 27 % the diameter and 60 % the घनत्व of धरती, resulting in its द्रव्यमान.
the Moon is the दूसरी densest उपग्रह बाद io, a उपग्रह of बृहस्पति.
The चंद्रमा is in synchronous रोटेशन साथ Earth, सदा showing the same फेस with इसके निकट side चिह्नित by अंधेरा volcanic मरिया that भरण between the उज्जवल ancient crustal highlands और the prominent प्रभाव craters.
it is the brightest ऑब्जेक्ट in the आसमान after the सूर्य, हालांकि its सतह is दरअसल very dark, with a reflectance similar to कि of कोयले.
Its prominence in the आसमान and इसके नियमित cycle of phases have, चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स, बना the चंद्रमा an important सांस्कृतिक influence on भाषा, calendars, आर्ट और mythology.
the चंद्रमा 's gravitational influence produces the ocean tides and the minute lengthening of the दिन.
the चंद्रमा 's वर्तमान कक्षीय distance, परिचय तीस times the diameter of the धरती, कल्याणकारी it to appear लगभग the वही size in the sky as the Sun, allowing it to कवर the सूर्य nearly precisely in कुल solar eclipses.
इस मिलान of apparent visual size is a संयोग.
The चंद्रमा 's रैखिक distance from the धरती is फिलहाल increasing at a rate of 3.82±0.07cm प्रति year, लकिन this रेट is नहीं constant.
the चंद्रमा is विचार to have formed nearly 4.5 अरब सालो पहले, not long बाद the Earth.
हालांकि वहीँ have महरूम several hypotheses लिये its उत्पत्ति in the पास्ट, the वर्तमान सबसे widely accepted explanation is कि the चंद्रमा formed from the debris left over after a दानव प्रभाव between Earth और a मंगल -आकारd देह.
The Moon is the तभी celestial देह अन्य than धरती on which इंसानो have set पैर.
the सोवियत Union 's luna programme थी the पहला to reach the चंद्रमा साथ unmanned spacecraft in 1959 ; the United राज्य ' नासा अपोलो कार्यक्रम हासिल the तभी manned मिशन to date, शुरूआत with the पहला मानवयुक्त चंद्र orbiting mission by अपोलो 8 in 1968, और छह मानवयुक्त lunar अवतरण between 1969 और 1972, with the first होने Apollo 11.
ये missions returned over 380 kg of चंद्र रॉक्स, which have महरूम प्रयुक्त to develop a geological समझना of the चंद्रमा 's origins, the गठन of इसके internal ढांचा, और इसके subsequent इतिहास.
बाद the अपोलो 17 मिशन in 1972, the Moon has been visited तभी by unmanned spacecraft, notably by the फाइनल Soviet Lunokhod रोवर.
चूंकि 2004, जापानी, चीन, इण्डिया, the संयुक्त States, और the यूरोपीय Space एजेंसी have प्रत्येक भेजा चंद्र orbiters.
ये spacecraft have contributed to confirming the डिस्कवरी of चंद्र जल बर्फ in permanently shadowed craters at the poles और bound into the lunar regolith.
भविष्य मानवयुक्त missions to the Moon have महरूम planned, including government as खूब as privately वित्तपोषित प्रयत्न.
the चंद्रमा remains, अंतर्गत the Outer Space Treaty, free to सब राष्ट्र to explore लिये शांतिपूर्ण purposes.
रोनाल्ड विल्सन reagan ( ; February 6, 1911 – जून 5, 2004 ) was the 40th President of the United राज्य ( 1981–1989 ).
prior to that, he थी the 33rd Governor of California ( 1967–1975 ), और a रेडियो, फिल्मी and टेलीविज़न actor.
born in tampico, इलिनोइस, and उठाया in Dixon, reagan was शिक्षित at Eureka कॉलेज, कमाई a Bachelor of कला degree in अर्थशास्त्र और समाजशास्त्र.
After graduating, reagan स्थानांतरित पहला to आयोवा to work as a रेडियो broadcaster and तब, in 1937, to Los Angeles जहाँ he began a career as an actor, पहला in films and बाद television.
कुछ of उसके सबसे notable films शामिल knute rockne, सब अमरीकी ( 1940 ), Kings पंक्ति ( 1942 ), और bedtime लिये Bonzo ( 1951 ).
Reagan परोसा as President of the Screen अभिनेताओं Guild and later as a प्रवक्ता लिये General इलेक्ट्रिक ( ge ) ; his start in राजनीती occurred दौरान उसके work for ge.
Originally a सदस्य of the Democratic पार्टी, his स्थितियाँ began shifting rightward in the 1950s, और he switched to the Republican पार्टी in 1962.
After delivering a rousing speech in support of बैरी Goldwater 's अध्यक्षीय उम्मीदवारी in 1964, he was persuaded to seek the California governorship, जीतना दो सालो बाद and again in 1970.
He थी defeated in उसके चलाएं for the रिपब्लिकन अध्यक्षीय नामांकन in 1968 और in 1976, लकिन won दोनो the नामांकन and general election in 1980, defeating लाज़िम jimmy कार्टर.
as president, reagan implemented sweeping new राजनैतिक और आर्थिक initiatives.
उसके supply-side economic नीतियों, dubbed `` Reaganomics ``, advocated reducing कर rates to spur आर्थिक विकास, controlling the धन supply to reduce inflation, deregulation of the अर्थव्यवस्था, and reducing government spending.
in his first पद he survived an हत्या attempt, took a मुश्किल लकीर against मजदूर संघ, announced a new War on दवाएँ, and ordered an आक्रमण of हरा.
he थी re-elected in a भूस्खलन in 1984, proclaiming कि it was `` morning in America ``.
उसके दूसरी term थी primarily marked by foreign matters, ऐसे as the ending of the Cold युद्ध, the 1986 bombing of Libya, और the revelation of the Iran-Contra affair.
Publicly describing the सोवियत Union as an `` दुष्ट साम्राज्य ``, he समर्थित anti-communist movements विश्वव्यापी और spent उसके पहला term forgoing the strategy of détente by ordering a massive military buildup in an बाहें race साथ the ussr.
Reagan negotiated with Soviet General Secretary मिखाइल गोर्बाचेव, culminating in the inf सन्धि and the घटी of both countries ' नाभिकीय arsenals.
reagan बाएँ दफ्तर in 1989.
in 1994, the पूर्व president disclosed कि he had been diagnosed साथ Alzheimer 's बीमारी पहले in the साल ; he died टेन सालो बाद at the age of 93.
A conservative प्रतीक, he ranks अत्यधिक in public opinion polls of U.S. राष्ट्रपतियों और is credited लिये generating an वैचारिक renaissance on the American राजनैतिक सही.
Complete set of scrolls, constituting the entire tanakh.
The tanakh (, or ; भी tenakh, Tenak, Tanach ) is a नाम used in judaism लिये the canon of the Hebrew बाइबल.
the Tanakh is also ज्ञात as the masoretic Text or the Miqra.
The name is an एक्रोनिम formed इससे the आरंभिक यहूदी letters of the masoretic टेक्स्ट 's three परंपरागत subdivisions : The तोरा ( `` Teaching '', also known as the पाँच Books of Moses ), Nevi'im ( `` नबियों '' ) और ketuvim ( `` कृतियाँ '' ) —hence TaNaKh.
the नाम `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ), meaning `` कि जिससे is पढ़ा '', is an वैकल्पिक यहूदी term लिये the tanakh.
The books of the tanakh were relayed साथ an accompanying मौखिक tradition passed on by प्रत्येक पीढी, पुकारा the मौखिक तोरा.
the Kawasaki Ninja zx-6r is a कावासाकी 600 cc क्लास खेल मोटरसाइकिल.
it was introduced in 1995, and रै been constantly updated throughout the years in जवाब to नई उत्पाद इससे होंडा, suzuki, और Yamaha.
The ZX श्रेणी is कया थी ज्ञात as the Ninja line of कावासाकी मोटरसाइकिल in the 1980s and still carries the नाम आज.
हत्या कोशिशें and भूखंड on राष्ट्रपतियों of the संयुक्त राज्य have महरूम numerous : अधिक than 20 कोशिशें to kill बैठे and पूर्व presidents, as खूब as the Presidents-elect, are ज्ञात.
चार sitting राष्ट्रपतियों have महरूम killed : अब्राहम Lincoln ( the 16th President ), James A. गारफ़ील्ड ( the 20th President ), विलियम mckinley ( the 25th अध्यक्ष ) और जॉन F. कैनेडी ( the 35th अध्यक्ष ).
दो presidents were घायल in attempted assassinations : पूर्व अध्यक्ष थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट ( the 26th अध्यक्ष ), and President रोनाल्ड reagan ( the 40th अध्यक्ष ).
हालांकि the इतिहासकार J.W. क्लार्क रै सुझाया कि most American assassinations were नीतियां motivated actions, carried out by तर्कसंगत मेन, नहीं सब ऐसे attacks have been undertaken for राजनैतिक reasons.
Some हमलावर था questionable दिमागी स्थिरता, and a few were judged legally insane.
Since the वाइस President of the United राज्य रै for more than a सदी महरूम निर्वाचित इससे the same political party as the President, the assassination of the President is unlikely to result in major नीति परिवर्तन.
इस may बताइये why राजनैतिक समूह typically do नहीं make ऐसे हमले.
Where the रेड फर्न grows is a अनोखा लिखा by विल्सन Rawls in 1961 about a boy who खरीदता and रेल दो Redbone coonhound शिकार कुत्तो.
ओक्लाहोमा ( ) ( pawnee : uukuhuúwa, cay : gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a राज्य located in वेस्ट South सेंट्रल संयुक्त राज्य.
Oklahoma is the 20th most extensive and the 28th most populous of the 50 United राज्य.
The राज्य 's नाम is निकला इससे the choctaw words okla and humma, अर्थ `` red लोगों '', और it is known informally by इसके nickname, The Sooner State.
formed by the संयोजन of Oklahoma territory और Indian territory on November 16, 1907, Oklahoma थी the 46th राज्य to enter the संघ.
Its residents हैं known as Oklahomans or, informally `` okies '', and इसके पूंजी and largest city is ओक्लाहोमा नगर.
a प्रमुख producer of natural gas, oil, and कृषि, ओक्लाहोमा relies on an आर्थिक base of aviation, energy, दूरसंचार, और biotechnology.
it has एक of the fastest growing economies in the स्वदेश, रैंकिंग among the शीर्ष राज्य in प्रति capita income growth and सकल घरेलू product growth.
Oklahoma नगर and तुलसा serve as Oklahoma 's प्राथमिक आर्थिक anchors, साथ nearly two thirds of oklahomans living भीतर उनके metropolitan statistical क्षेत्रों.
With छोटी mountain ranges, प्रेयरी, mesas, और पूर्वी वनों, सबसे of ओक्लाहोमा झूठ in the ग्रेट मैदान और the u.s. आंतरिक हाइलैंड्स —a प्रदेश especially prone to कठोर मौसम.
in addition to having a व्यापकता of अंग्रेज़ी, German, स्कॉटिश, Irish and Native अमरीकी ancestry, अधिक than 25 देशी अमरीकी languages हैं बोला in Oklahoma, second तभी to कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
Oklahoma is located on a confluence of three major अमरीकी सांस्कृतिक regions and historically परोसा as a रूट for cattle drives, a destination लिये southern settlers, और a government-sanctioned territory for देशी Americans.
Redwall, by ब्रायन ज़ाक, is a श्रेणी of children 's काल्पनिक novels.
it is the शीर्षक of the पहला book of the series, प्रकाशित in 1986, as well as the name of the ऐबी प्रदर्शित in the book और the name of an एनिमेटेड tv series based on three of the novels ( Redwall, Mattimeo, और Martin the Warrior ), which पहला aired in 1999.
the किताबे हैं primarily aimed at पुरानी children, लकिन have प्रशंसक of सब ages.
वहीँ have महरूम twenty-two novels and two चित्र किताबे published.
The twenty-second, और फाइनल, अनोखा, the दुष्ट क्रू, was मरणोपरांत released on May 3, 2011.
Natural गैस is प्रायः measured by volume in the संयुक्त States and is stated in घन फीट.
A घन पैर of गैस is the amount of गैस needed to भरण a आवाज़ of one cubic पैर under नियत शर्तें of pressure and temperature.to measure larger amounts of प्राकृतिक गैस, a `` therm '' is used to denote 100 cubic feet, और `` mcf '' is प्रयुक्त to denote 1,000 घन फीट.
to provide वृहद सटीकता in comparing fuels, उर्जा सामग्री is measured in शर्तें of `` अंग्रेजों Thermal Units ( btu 's ). ''
a BTU is the राशि of heat जरूरी to उठाएँ one पाउंड of जल ( approximately a pint ), one degree फ़ारेनहाइट at or close to its पाइंट of maximum घनत्व.
One British therm ( symbol thm ) is a non- si unit of heat उर्जा बराबर to 100,000 अंग्रेजों thermal units ( btu ).
it is लगभग the energy equivalent of burning 100 cubic फीट ( प्रायः referred to as 1 CCF ) of प्राकृतिक gas.
Since ( Natural गैस ) मीटर measure आवाज़ and नहीं उर्जा सामग्री, a therm factor is used by ( Natural ) गैस companies to convert the आवाज़ of गैस used to इसके ऊष्मा समतुल्य, और यूँ गणना the वास्तविक energy use.
The therm फ़ैक्टर is प्रायः in the units therms/ccf.
It will vary साथ the mix of hydrocarbons in the natural gas.
प्राकृतिक gas with a उच्चतर than average विशेषज्ञता of इथेन, प्रोपेन or butane होगा have a उच्चतर therm फ़ैक्टर.
impurities, such as कार्बन dioxide or nitrogen, निम्नतर the therm factor.
The आवाज़ of the गैस is calculated as if measured at मानक तापमान और दबाव ( STP ).
the ऊष्मा सामग्री of natural गैस is solely dependent on the संयोजन of the गैस, और is स्वतंत्र of तापमान and pressure.
एक therm is बराबर to about 105.5 megajoules, 25,200 kilocalories or 29.3 kilowatt-hours.
एक therm can भी be provided by about of प्राकृतिक गैस.
the therm sometimes has been उलझन with the thermie ( देखिए नीचे ).
the names of दोनो इकाई come इससे the Greek word लिये heat.
A thermie ( th ) is a मीट्रिक unit of ऊष्मा उर्जा, part of the meter-tonne-second प्रणाली sometimes प्रयुक्त by European engineers.
The thermie is equal to the amount of उर्जा जरूरी to raise the तापमान of 1 tonne of जल by 1 °c.
The thermie is समतुल्य to 1,000 kilocalories, 4.1868 megajoules or 3968.3 btu.
the American सिविल War ( ACW ), also ज्ञात as the War between the राज्य or simply the Civil War ( see naming ), थी a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और several Southern स्लेव states कि घोषित their secession और formed the confederate राज्य of अमेरिका ( the `` confederacy '' or the `` दक्षिण '' ).
The war था its उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of गुलामी, विशेषकर the extension of गुलामी into the पश्चिमी territories.
विदेशी शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene.
After चार years of bloody कॉम्बैट that left over 600,000 soldiers मुर्दे and नष्ट much of the South 's infrastructure, the confederacy collapsed, slavery थी abolished, and the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring नेशनल एकता और guaranteeing rights to the freed स्लेव began.
In the 1860 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, republicans, led by अब्राहम lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त States ' territories.
Lincoln won, लकिन पहले his उद्घाटन on March 4, 1861, seven cotton-based स्लेव राज्य formed the confederacy.
outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan और the आवक Republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
lincoln 's inaugural address declared उसके administration would नहीं initiate सिविल युद्ध.
Eight remaining स्लेव states continued to reject calls लिये secession.
confederate शक्तियां जब्त numerous संघीय दुर्गों within territory claimed by the confederacy.
a Peace सम्मेलन failed to find a सुलह, और both sides prepared लिये युद्ध.
the confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय देशों यहूद so निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` that they would intervene ; none did और none पहचाना the नई confederate राज्य of America.
Hostilities began on अप्रैल 12, 1861, when confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट sumter, a कुंजी fort held by संघ सैनिकों in दक्षिण Carolina.
lincoln पुकारा for each राज्य to provide troops to retake the फोर्ट ; नतीजतन, four more स्लेव राज्य joined the Confederacy, bringing उनके कुल to ग्यारह.
The संघ जल्द नियंत्रित the border states and established a naval blockade that अबोध the दक्षिणी अर्थव्यवस्था.
the पूर्वी थिएटर थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
the पतझड़ 1862 confederate campaign into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ state ) ended with confederate रिट्रीट at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading अंग्रेजों intervention.
Lincoln जारी the Emancipation Proclamation, जिससे बना समाप्ति slavery a युद्ध goal.
to the west, by गर्मियाँ 1862 the संघ नष्ट the confederate नदी navy, तब much of their western armies, and the संघ at vicksburg split the confederacy in two at the मिसिसिपी River.
in 1863, रॉबर्ट E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the बैटल of gettysburg.
पश्चिमी सफलताओं led to Ulysses S. Grant कमांड of सब संघ armies in 1864.
In the Western थिएटर, William T. Sherman drove ईस्ट to capture अटलांटा and marched to the समुद्र, destroying Confederate अवसंरचना साथ the रास्ता.
the Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the confederacy इससे all दिशानिर्देश, और could afford to लड़ो battles of अपघर्षण through the Overland अभियान towards रिचमंड, the confederate पूंजी.
the defending confederate फौज विफल, leading to Lee 's surrender to ग्रान्ट at Appomattox Court हाउस on अप्रैल 9, 1865.
The अमरीकी सिविल War थी one of the earliest सच्चा industrial wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
the mobilization of civilian कारखानों, खानों, shipyards, बैंको, transportation and खाना आपूर्तियाँ सब foreshadowed संसार युद्ध i.
it remains the deadliest युद्ध in American history, resulting in the मौतों of an estimated 750,000 सैनिको and an undetermined क्रमांक of civilian हताहत.
इतिहासकार John Huddleston estimates the मौत toll at टेन प्रतिशत of all Northern males 20–45 सालो old, and 30 प्रतिशत of all Southern श्वेत males aged 18–40.
विलियम Bruce जेनर ( born अक्तूबर 28, 1949 ) is a पूर्व u.S. track and फ़ील्ड खिलाड़ी, प्रेरक स्पीकर, socialite, टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व और बिजनेसमैन.
He won the सुनहरा पदक लिये decathlon in the मॉन्ट्रियल 1976 Summer ओलंपिक.
Following his Olympic जीत and the related recognition, he शादीशुदा क्रिस कार्दशियन, and उसके professional करियर evolved into होने a television हस्ती.
By 1981, he था starred in अनेक made-for-tv फिल्मों and थी Erik एस्ट्राडा 's बदलना on the शीर्ष रेटेड tv श्रेणी CHiPs.
He रै six children : Burt, केसी, ब्रैंडन, ब्रोडी, Kendall and काइली.
Since उसके 1991 विवाह to क्रिस जेनर, he is the stepfather to Kourtney, किम, khloe और रोब कार्दशियन.
चूंकि 2007, he रै appeared साथ his blended परिवार on Keeping Up साथ the kardashians.
escherichia कोलाई ( ; commonly abbreviated E. coli ) is a gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium that is commonly found in the निम्नतर intestine of warm-blooded organisms ( endotherms ).
सबसे E. coli strains हैं हानिरहित, लकिन some serotypes can कारण serious food विषाक्तता in इंसानो, और हैं occasionally जिम्मेदार लिये उत्पाद recalls due to food संदूषण.
the हानिरहित strains हैं भाग of the normal फ्लोरा of the gut, and can benefit their होस्ट by producing विटामिन K2, and by preventing the establishment of रोगजनक bacteria भीतर the intestine.
E. coli and related bacteria constitute परिचय 0.1 % of आंत फ्लोरा, और fecal–oral transmission is the प्रमुख रूट through जिससे pathogenic strains of the bacterium cause बीमारी.
Cells are समर्थ to जीवित outside the body for a सीमित राशि of समय, जिससे makes उन्हें आदर्श indicator जीवों to परीक्षण पर्यावरणीय samples लिये fecal संदूषण.
वहीँ is, however, a growing body of research कि has examined environmentally persistent E. कोलाई जिससे can जीवित लिये extended periods outside of the host.
the bacterium can भी be grown easily and inexpensively in a प्रयोगशाला सेटिंग, और रै been intensively investigated लिये over 60 years.
E. coli is the most widely studied prokaryotic मॉडल organism, and an important प्रजाति in the fields of जैवप्रौद्योगिकी and microbiology, जहाँ it रै परोसा as the host सजीव लिये the बहुमत of work with recombinant डीएनए.
क्षेत्रफल code 217 is the उत्तर American टेलीफोन क्षेत्रफल कोड for much of पश्चिमी and central इलिनोइस.
The 217 area includes Illinois ' पूंजी, springfield, plus Champaign, Urbana, decatur, Danville, क्विंसी, और rantoul.
217 was एक of the असली क्षेत्रफल कोड, जिससे यहूद निर्मित in 1947.
the तभी significant बदलें in 217 's सीमाएँ was in 1957, जब इसके northern portion थी संयुक्त साथ part of area code 815 to रूप क्षेत्रफल code 309.
Image of the largest अंटार्कटिक ozone छेद कभी अंकित ( सितंबर 2006 ), over the दक्षिणी pole
Layers of the माहौल ( not to स्केल )
ओज़ोन depletion describes two पृथक लकिन सम्बन्धित phenomena observed since the लेट 1970s : a स्थिर decline of about 4 % प्रति दशक in the कुल आवाज़ of ओज़ोन in धरती 's stratosphere ( the ओज़ोन परत ), और a much larger springtime घटी in stratospheric ozone over धरती 's polar regions.
the latter घटना is referred to as the ओज़ोन hole.
in जोड to ये well-known stratospheric phenomena, there are also springtime polar tropospheric ozone depletion events.
The विवरण of ध्रुवीय ozone hole formation differ from कि of mid-latitude thinning, but the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण process in दोनो is catalytic विनाश of ओज़ोन by atomic हैलोजन्स.
The प्रमुख सोर्स of ये हैलोजन atoms in the stratosphere is photodissociation of man-made halocarbon refrigerants ( CFCs, freons, halons ).
These यौगिकों are transported into the stratosphere बाद being emitted at the सतह.
Both प्रकार of ओज़ोन depletion यहूद observed to बढ़ाएँ as emissions of halo-carbons increased.
cfcs and अन्य contributory substances हैं referred to as ozone-depleting substances ( ods ).
चूंकि the ozone layer रोकता सबसे नुकसानदेह UVB wavelengths ( 280–315 nm ) of ultraviolet लाइट ( uv लाइट ) from गुजर through the Earth 's atmosphere, observed और प्रक्षिप्त decreases in ओज़ोन have generated विश्वव्यापी चिंता leading to अपनाना of the Montreal प्रोटोकॉल that bans the production of CFCs, halons, and अन्य ozone-depleting रसायन ऐसे as carbon tetrachloride और trichloroethane.
it is suspected कि a variety of biological consequences ऐसे as increases in स्किन cancer, cataracts, damage to पौधे, and कटौती of प्लवक populations in the ocean 's photic मण्डल may result इससे the increased uv एक्सपोज़र due to ओज़ोन depletion.
The प्रस्तावना to the United States संविधान is a brief introductory बयान of the Constitution 's आधारभूत purposes और guiding principles.
it states in general शर्तें, and न्यायालयों have referred to it as reliable प्रमाण of, the founding fathers ' intentions regarding the संविधान 's meaning and कया वे hoped the Constitution होता achieve as it pertains to सब of the people of the United States.
as the phrase, `` we the लोगों '' suggests कि the नई सरकारी originates इससे the लोगों of the United राज्य और it सेट into motion a सवाल as it pertains to कि विशाल population concerning the individual rights और equality among all people ; इस can be seen सबसे broadly in the divide between republicanism और सोशल democracy.
Czechoslovakian shot putter plihan at the 1957 East German अंदर एथलेटिक्स Championships
The शॉट put ( सुनाया ) is a track और field इवेंट involving `` throwing '' / '' putting '' ( फेंकना in a pushing motion ) a heavy spherical ऑब्जेक्ट —the shot—as far as possible.
The शॉट put प्रतियोगिता लिये मेन रै महरूम a भाग of the आधुनिक ओलंपिक चूंकि उनके पुनरुद्धार in 1896, महिलाओं 's प्रतियोगिता began in 1948.
Map of the United राष्ट्र ( UN ) सदस्य राज्य, साथ उनके territories ( सहित निर्भर territories ) recognized by the un in ब्लू
There are संयुक्त राष्ट्र ( UN ) सदस्य राज्य, and प्रत्येक of उन्हें is a सदस्य of the United Nations सामान्य सभा.
the मापदण्ड लिये admission of नई members हैं नियत आउट in the संयुक्त राष्ट्र Charter, अध्याय II, आलेख 4:
A recommendation लिये प्रवेश इससे the सुरक्षा Council requires affirmative मत from at least नौ of the council 's fifteen members, with none of the five स्थाई members मतदान विरूद्ध.
The सुरक्षा परिषद 's अनुशंसा must तब be subsequently स्वीकृत in the सामान्य सभा by a two-thirds बहुमत vote.
in principle, तभी sovereign राज्य can become UN members, और currently सब un सदस्यों are sovereign राज्य ( हालांकि a few members यहूद not sovereign when they joined the un ).
Because a राज्य can तभी be admitted to the UN by the approval of the Security Council और the सामान्य सभा, a number of states कि may be माना sovereign states according to the montevideo सम्मेलन criteria are नहीं सदस्यों because the un does not consider them to possess sovereignty, मुख्यतः due to the कमी of अंतरराष्ट्रीय मान्यता or opposition from certain सदस्यों.
In जोड to the member राज्य, the un भी आमंत्रण non-member states ( फिलहाल two : the Holy देखिए and फिलिस्तीन ), intergovernmental संगठन, and अन्य अंतरराष्ट्रीय organizations और entities जिनकी statehood or sovereignty are नहीं precisely पारिभाषित, to become observers at the General Assembly, allowing उन्हें to participate और speak, लकिन not vote, in सामान्य Assembly बैठक.
the Eiffel मीनार (, ) is an आयरन lattice मीनार स्तिथ on the champ de Mars in पेरिस, नामित after the इंजीनियर gustave Eiffel, जिनकी company designed and built the tower.
erected in 1889 as the प्रवेश arch to the 1889 संसार 's मेला, it रै become दोनो a global सांस्कृतिक icon of फ़्रांस और one of the सबसे recognizable structures in the world.
the मीनार is the tallest ढांचा in Paris and the most-visited paid स्मारक in the world ; 7.1 लाख लोगों ascended it in 2011.
The third level observatory 's अपर platform is at the उच्चतम accessible to public in the European संघ और the highest in यूरोपीय as long as the मंच of the Ostankino Tower, at, remains बंद as a परिणाम of the fire of अगस्त 2000.
the मीनार received its 250 millionth आगंतुक in 2010.
The tower स्टैंड tall, परिचय the वही ऊँचाई as an 81-storey भवन.
During its निर्माण, the एफिल मीनार surpassed the वॉशिंगटन स्मारक to assume the शीर्षक of the tallest man-made structure in the संसार, a शीर्षक it held लिये 41 years, until the Chrysler Building in नई यॉर्क City थी built in 1930.
Because of the जोड, in 1957, of the antenna atop the Eiffel मीनार, it is now taller than the क्रिसलर भवन.
नहीं सहित ब्रॉडकास्ट एन्टेना, it is the second-tallest ढांचा in France, after the Millau Viaduct.
The tower रै three स्तर लिये visitors.
टिकटें can be खरीदा to ascend, by stairs or लिफ्ट ( लिफ्ट ), to the पहला and दूसरी levels.
The चलना इससे ground स्तर to the first level is over 300 कदम, as is the चलना इससे the पहला to the दूसरी स्तर.
the third और highest स्तर is accessible तभी by lift—stairs do exist लकिन हैं प्रायः closed to the public.
The पहला और second स्तर have रेस्तरां.
the मीनार has become the most prominent symbol of both पेरिस and France, often in the establishing shot of films set in the नगर.
केनेथ वेन `` Ken '' जेनिंग्स III ( born may 23, 1974 ) is an अमरीकी खेल दिखाएँ प्रतियोगी and author.
जेनिंग्स is noted लिये पकड़कर the record लिये the longest winning streak on the u.S. syndicated खेल show Jeopardy !
और as being the all-time अग्रणी money विजेता on American खेल shows.
In 2004, Jennings जीती 74 Jeopardy !
खेल पहले he थी पराजित by चैलेंजर Nancy Zerg on उसके 75th रूप.
His total आय on jeopardy !
are $ 3,172,700, consisting of $ 2,520,700 over उसके 74 विन्स, a $ 2,000 second-place पुरस्कार in उसके 75th appearance, a $ 500,000 second-place prize in the Jeopardy !
परम टूर्नामेंट of Champions, as खूब as हाफ of a $ 300,000 prize in the ibm चुनौती.
During his first चलाएं of jeopardy !
appearances, Jennings अर्जित the रिकार्ड लिये the उच्चतम अमरीकी खेल show winnings.
उसके total थी surpassed by Brad Rutter, जो defeated जेनिंग्स in the finals of the Jeopardy !
परम Tournament of Champions ( पहला aired on May 25, 2005 ), adding $ 2,000,000 to rutter 's existing jeopardy !
winnings.
Jennings regained the रिकार्ड after appearing on several other खेल shows, culminating in an appearance on Are तुम Smarter Than a 5th Grader ?
( first aired on October 10, 2008 ), हालांकि Rutter retains the jeopardy !
record.
After his success on jeopardy !, Jennings wrote परिचय his experience और छान अमरीकी ट्रिविया इतिहास और culture in उसके book brainiac : adventures in the Curious, Competitive, Compulsive संसार of ट्रिविया buffs, प्रकाशित in 2006.
the कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल लीग or cfl ( ' [ lcf ] in French ) is a professional sports लीग located in Canada.
the cfl is the उच्चतम स्तर of competition in कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल, a form of gridiron football closely सम्बन्धित to अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल.
Its आठ वर्तमान टीमों, which हैं located in eight separate शहरों, are विभाजित into two विभाजन of four teams प्रत्येक — the ईस्ट प्रभाग और the वेस्ट प्रभाग.
The league 's 19-week नियमित ऋतु रनों इससे late जून to जल्दी नवम्बर ; प्रत्येक team plays 18 खेल with one bye week.
Following the regular season, the three टीमों साथ the बेहतरीन रिकॉर्ड in their प्रभाग ( except if the चौथी प्लेस टोली in one division रै a better रिकार्ड than the तीसरा प्लेस team in the other division, when the team साथ the बेहतर record makes the playoffs and `` crosses over '' to the other division 's playoff ) compete in the लीग 's three-week डिवीजनल playoffs, which culminate in the late-November धूसर कप championship, the देश 's largest सालाना खेल और टेलीविज़न इवेंट.
the CFL was officially संस्थापित on जनवरी 19, 1958, बनाना it the second oldest gridiron football league in उत्तर अमेरिका still in आपरेशन, although all इसके teams long predate the आधुनिक गठन of the लीग.
it is the highest level of खेल in Canadian फ़ुटबॉल, the सबसे popular football लीग in कनाडा, और the second-most लोकप्रिय major खेल लीग in Canada, after the National Hockey लीग.
हालांकि ice हॉकी is Canada 's सबसे लोकप्रिय खेल, the cfl रै increased the popularity of कनाडाई football in क्यूबेक and पश्चिमी कनाडा.
कनाडाई football is भी played at amateur levels ( i.e. youth, high school, cjfl, QJFL, cis और वरिष्ठ लीग ऐसे as the Alberta Football लीग ).
the 2010s होगा be a significant decade for the cfl in शर्तें of विकास, as teams have संवर, विस्तारित स्टेडियम, or plan to निर्माण entirely नई stadiums.
The Montreal अलॉतेस संपन्नता इस first, adding 5,000 seats to Percival molson मेमोरियल स्टेडियम in समय लिये the 2010 cfl ऋतु.
the एडमॉन्टन एस्किमोस और कैला Stampeders भी renovated their respective स्टेडियम और सुविधाएं लिये the 2010 season.
in 2011, the BC Lions निभाई under a नई, retractable roof in BC Place after spending एक और a हाफ सीज़न at साम्राज्य Field.
तब the Winnipeg ब्लू बमवर्षक होगा खेल in an entirely नई स्टेडियम at the University of मनिटोबा, अनुसूचित to open in time for the 2013 ऋतु.
The हैमिल्टन tiger-cats, Saskatchewan roughriders and the नई Ottawa franchise हैं भी looking at नई or extensively-renovated स्टेडियम in the following years.
वहीँ हैं also उम्मीदें of expanding the league to अटलांटिक कनाडा ( ideally basing a टोली in either the अधिक populated halifax, or the more centralized Moncton ), as 2010 and 2011 था नियमित season games hosted in moncton.
according to sports historian Douglas brei, the कनाडाई Football लीग holds the distinction of होने the only पेशेवर खेल लीग in उत्तर America, major or नाबालिग league, in which प्रत्येक existing franchise has won at तनिक one league शीर्षक जबकि in their current location.
Each एंटीबॉडी बांधता to a विशिष्ट antigen ; an बातचीत similar to a ताला और कुंजी.
An एंटीबॉडी ( ab ), भी ज्ञात as an immunoglobulin ( Ig ), is a large Y-shaped प्रोटीन उत्पादित by b-cells कि is used by the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली to identify और neutralize foreign वस्तुएँ such as जीवाणु और वाइरस.
The एंटीबॉडी recognizes a अद्वितीय part of the foreign target, पुकारा an antigen.
Each टिप of the `` y '' of an antibody contains a paratope ( a structure analogous to a ताला ) कि is विशिष्ट लिये एक particular epitope ( similarly analogous to a कुंजी ) on an प्रतिजन, allowing these दो structures to bind साथ साथ precision.
using इस बाइंडिंग यांत्रिकी, an एंटीबॉडी can टैग a microbe or an संक्रमित cell लिये आक्रमण by other भाग of the प्रतिरक्षा system, or can neutralize इसके निशाना सीधे ( for उदाहरण, by ब्लॉकिंग a भाग of a microbe कि is अनिवार्य for इसके आक्रमण और अस्तित्व ).
the production of antibodies is the प्रमुख function of the humoral प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली.
antibodies हैं स्रावित by a type of श्वेत blood cell called a plasma cell.
Antibodies can occur in दो physical फ़ॉर्म, a soluble रूप कि is secreted इससे the cell, and a झिल्ली -bound form that is attached to the सतह of a B कोशिका and is referred to as the B कोशिका receptor ( bcr ).
the bcr is तभी मिला on the surface of b कोशिकाएं और facilitates the सक्रियण of these कोशिकाएं और उनके subsequent differentiation into either एंटीबॉडी factories पुकारा plasma कोशिकाएं, or मेमोरी b कोशिकाएं that will survive in the देह और remember that same प्रतिजन so the b cells can respond तेज़ upon future एक्सपोज़र.
In most मामले, बातचीत of the b कोशिका साथ a T हेल्पर कोशिका is necessary to उपज पूरा activation of the b कोशिका और, इसलिए, एंटीबॉडी generation following प्रतिजन binding.
Soluble antibodies हैं released into the रक्त और ऊतक fluids, as खूब as many secretions to continue to सर्वेक्षण for invading microorganisms.
Antibodies are glycoproteins belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily ; the शर्तें एंटीबॉडी and immunoglobulin are often used interchangeably.
Antibodies हैं typically बना of मौलिक structural units—each with दो विशाल heavy जंजीरों और दो छोटी light chains.
There are several अलग types of antibody भारी जंजीरों, और several अलग kinds of antibodies, जिससे हैं grouped into अलग isotypes आधारित on जिससे heavy chain वे possess.
पाँच अलग एंटीबॉडी isotypes हैं known in mammals, जिससे perform different भूमिकाएँ, और सहायता सीधा the उचित प्रतिरक्षा response लिये each अलग type of विदेशी ऑब्जेक्ट वे encounter.
हालांकि the general structure of सब antibodies is बहुत समान, a छोटी region at the टिप of the protein is extremely परिवर्तनीय, allowing millions of antibodies साथ slightly अलग टिप structures, or antigen बाइंडिंग sites, to exist.
इस प्रदेश is known as the hypervariable region.
प्रत्येक of ये विसंगतियाँ can bind to a अलग प्रतिजन.
This विशाल विविधता of antibodies allows the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली to recognize an बराबर चौड़ी किस्में of antigens.
the विशाल और विविध जनसांख्यिकी of antibodies is generated by random combinations of a नियत of जीन segments कि encode अलग प्रतिजन बाइंडिंग साइट ( or paratopes ), followed by यादृच्छिक mutations in इस area of the antibody जीन, which बनाएँ further विविधता.
एंटीबॉडी genes also re-organize in a प्रक्रम पुकारा क्लास switching कि परिवर्तन the आधार of the भारी chain to another, बनाना a different isotype of the एंटीबॉडी कि retains the antigen विशिष्ट परिवर्तनीय प्रदेश.
This allows a सिंगल antibody to be प्रयुक्त by several अलग भाग of the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली.
the प्रतीक प्रयुक्त by the zodiac कातिल to sign उसके पत्राचार
the zodiac Killer थी a सीरियल कातिल जो operated in Northern कैलिफ़ोर्निया in the लेट 1960s और जल्दी 1970s.
the killer 's identity remains unknown.
The zodiac murdered पीड़ितों in benicia, Vallejo, झील Berryessa, और सैन Francisco between December 1968 और अक्तूबर 1969.
चार मेन और three women between the आयु of 16 and 29 were targeted.
The कातिल originated the नाम `` Zodiac '' in a श्रेणी of taunting अक्षर sent to the लोकल Bay Area दबायें.
ये अक्षर शामिल चार cryptograms ( or ciphers ).
of the चार cryptograms भेजा, तभी एक रै been definitively हल.
संदिग्धों have महरूम named by विधि प्रवर्तन and amateur जांचकर्ताओं, but no conclusive evidence रै surfaced.
in अप्रैल 2004, the सैन Francisco पुलिस विभाग चिह्नित the case `` निष्क्रिय '', yet re-opened the मामला at कुछ point prior to March 2007.
the मामला also remains open in the नगर of vallejo, as खूब as in नापा काउंटी और solano काउंटी.
the कैलिफ़ोर्निया Department of Justice रै कायम an open मामला file on the zodiac murders चूंकि 1969.
Jennings is a small नगर in और the parish seat of जेफरसन Davis Parish, Louisiana, संयुक्त राज्य, निकट झील चार्ल्स.
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 10,383 at the 2010 census, a छोटी decline इससे the 2000 tabulation.
the नगर is 68 प्रतिशत white.
Jennings is the प्रिंसिपल city of the Jennings Micropolitan सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल, which शामिल सब of Jefferson डेविस Parish.
it is भी भाग of the larger झील charles-jennings संयुक्त सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल.
nanotechnology ( sometimes shortened to `` nanotech '' ) is the हेरफेर of पदार्थ on an atomic और आणविक स्केल.
The earliest, फैली description of nanotechnology referred to the particular technological goal of precisely manipulating atoms और molecules for fabrication of macroscale उत्पाद, also अभी referred to as आणविक nanotechnology.
a अधिक generalized वर्णन of nanotechnology थी subsequently स्थापित by the नेशनल nanotechnology पहल, which defines nanotechnology as the manipulation of matter with at least one आयाम sized from 1 to 100 nanometers.
This definition reflects the फैक्ट कि क्वांटम mechanical प्रभाव हैं important at इस quantum-realm स्केल, और so the परिभाषा shifted इससे a particular technological goal to a शोध श्रेणी समावेशी of all प्रकार of शोध और technologies that deal साथ the special गुण of matter कि occur below the given आकार दहलीज.
It is therefore आम to see the बहुवचन रूप `` nanotechnologies '' as खूब as `` nanoscale technologies '' to refer to the व्यापक दायरा of research और applications जिनकी आम trait is आकार.
Because of the किस्में of संभावित अनुप्रयोग ( सहित industrial and military ), सरकारें have invested billions of डॉलर in nanotechnology research.
through its नेशनल Nanotechnology Initiative, the USA has invested 3.7 billion डॉलर.
the यूरोपीय संघ has invested 1.2 अरब and Japan 750 million डॉलर.
Nanotechnology as पारिभाषित by size is naturally बहुत broad, सहित फ़ील्ड of विज्ञान as विविध as सतह विज्ञान, organic chemistry, molecular जीवविज्ञान, semiconductor physics, microfabrication, etc.
the संबद्ध शोध and applications हैं equally विविध, ranging from एक्सटेंशन of conventional यंत्र भौतिकी to completely new approaches आधारित upon molecular self-assembly, इससे developing नई materials with आयाम on the nanoscale to direct control of matter on the परमाणु scale.
Scientists फिलहाल बहस the भविष्य implications of nanotechnology.
Nanotechnology may be समर्थ to create अनेक new सामग्री and devices with a विशाल range of applications, ऐसे as in आयुर्विज्ञान, इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स, biomaterials और उर्जा production.
on the अन्य hand, nanotechnology उठाता अनेक of the वही मुद्दे as कोई नई प्रौद्योगिकी, including चिंताएं परिचय the toxicity और environmental प्रभाव of nanomaterials, और उनके संभावित प्रभाव on वैश्विक अर्थशास्त्र, as खूब as अटकलें परिचय विभिन्न doomsday scenarios.
These चिंताएं have led to a debate among advocacy समूह और governments on whether special regulation of nanotechnology is warranted.
मैप of the पूर्वी bloc
the पद Eastern bloc or Communist bloc refers to the पूर्व कम्युनिस्ट राज्य of सेंट्रल और Eastern यूरोपीय, generally the सोवियत संघ और the देशों of the वॉरसॉ अनुबंध.
The शर्तें कम्युनिस्ट Bloc and Soviet bloc were भी प्रयुक्त to denote groupings of राज्य aligned with the सोवियत Union, हालांकि ये शर्तें might शामिल राज्य बाहर सेंट्रल और पूर्वी यूरोपीय.
The New जर्सी gubernatorial चुनाव of 2009 took place on November 3, 2009.
लोकतांत्रिक राज्यपाल jon corzine थी कार्यशील लिये a second पद and थी being challenged by रिपब्लिकन क्रिस क्रिस्टी, स्वतंत्र Christopher daggett and nine अन्य, in addition to several write-in उम्मीदवार.
Christie जीती the election, साथ परिचय 48.5 प्रतिशत of the vote, to 44.9 percent for corzine और 5.8 प्रतिशत for Daggett.
क्रिस्टी won the largest हाशिया for a first term Republican चूंकि 1969.
Christie assumed office on जनवरी 19, 2010.
This was the first चुनाव to भरण the newly निर्मित दफ्तर of लेफ्टिनेंट Governor.
the candidates लिये राज्यपाल और लेफ्टिनेंट राज्यपाल यहूद joined साथ as a single चुनाव, so that मतदाता किया नहीं have the opportunity to विभाजित the टिकट.
किम guadagno, Christie 's running mate, became New Jersey 's first लेफ्टिनेंट राज्यपाल following उसके inauguration.
Health परवाह in the United States is provided by अनेक distinct संगठन.
Health care सुविधाएं are largely स्वामित्व और संचालित by निजी सेक्टर व्यवसायों.
स्वास्थ्य बीमे लिये पब्लिक सेक्टर employees is primarily provided by the सरकारी.
60-65 % of healthcare प्रावधान and spending comes from कार्यक्रम such as medicare, Medicaid, tricare, the Children 's स्वास्थ्य Insurance कार्यक्रम, और the दिग्गजों स्वास्थ्य Administration.
Most of the population अंतर्गत 65 is insured by their or a परिवार सदस्य 's employer, some ख़रीदे स्वास्थ्य बीमे on उनके own, and the remainder हैं uninsured.
Of 17 high-income देशों studied by the नेशनल संस्थान of स्वास्थ्य in 2013, the United राज्य was at or near the नीचे in infant मृत्यु, दिल और फेफड़ों disease, sexually transmitted infections, adolescent pregnancies, injuries, homicides, और दरों of disability.
साथ, such issues place the U.S. at the नीचे of the list लिये जीवन प्रत्याशा.
on औसत, a u.S. male can be expected to live लगभग चार fewer सालो than those in the top-ranked country.
according to the World स्वास्थ्य Organization ( जो ), the United States spent more on स्वास्थ्य परवाह per capita ( $ 7,146 ), and अधिक on स्वास्थ्य care as percentage of its जीडीपी ( 15.2 % ), than any other स्वदेश in 2008.
The राष्ट्रमंडल निधि क्रमित the United राज्य last in the विशेषता of स्वास्थ्य परवाह among similar countries, and notes u.S. परवाह लागत the सबसे.
the u.S. Census Bureau reported कि 49.9 लाख निवासियों, 16.3 % of the जनसांख्यिकी, were uninsured in 2010 ( up इससे 49.0 लाख निवासियों, 16.1 % of the जनसांख्यिकी, in 2009 ).
a 2004 Institute of आयुर्विज्ञान ( iom ) रपट कहा : `` The संयुक्त States is among the few industrialized nations in the world that करता नहीं guarantee अभिगम to स्वास्थ्य care लिये its जनसांख्यिकी. ''
A 2004 oecd रपट said : `` साथ the एक्सेप्शन of मैक्सिको, Turkey, and the संयुक्त States, all oecd countries had हासिल universal or near-universal ( at तनिक 98.4 % insured ) कवरेज of उनके populations by 1990. ''
a 2010 रपट observed that कमी of स्वास्थ्य बीमे causes roughly 48,000 unnecessary मौतों प्रत्येक year in the संयुक्त States.
in 2007, 62.1 % of filers for bankruptcies claimed high medical expenses.
A 2013 study मिला कि about 25 % of all वरिष्ठ citizens घोषित दिवालियापन due to चिकित्सा खर्च, और 43 % हैं मजबूर to mortgage or बेचें उनके प्राथमिक निवास.
On March 23, 2010, the रोगी सुरक्षा और सस्ती Care अधिनियम ( PPACA ) became law, providing for प्रमुख परिवर्तन in स्वास्थ्य बीमे.
in physiology, देह जल is the water सामग्री of the human body.
a significant fraction of the human देह is जल.
आर्थर Guyton 's Textbook of Medical physiology states that `` the कुल amount of water in a man of average weight ( 70 kilograms ) is लगभग 40 लीटर, averaging 57 प्रतिशत of his total body वज़न.
in a नवजात शिशु, this may be as ऊँची as 75 प्रतिशत of the देह weight, but it progressively decreases from जनम to old age, सबसे of the घटी occurring during the पहला 10 years of life.
Also, मोटापा decreases the प्रतिशत of जल in the देह, sometimes to as low as 45 प्रतिशत ''.
These आंकड़े हैं statistical averages, so हैं illustrative, और like सब biostatistics, होगा vary साथ बाते like प्रकार of जनसांख्यिकी, age and क्रमांक of लोगों sampled, और methodology.
so there is नहीं, और can नहीं be, a फिगर कि is exactly the वही लिये सब लोगों, लिये इस or कोई other physiological माप.
लिये उदाहरण, Jackson 's ( 1985 ) Anatomy & Physiology लिये नर्स देता a फिगर of 60 % for the proportion of body-weight attributable to जल, which approximates guyton 's 57 %.
in diseased राज्य जहाँ body water is प्रभावित, the कम्पार्टमेंट or compartments कि have changed can give clues to the nature of the problem.
देह water is regulated by हार्मोन, including anti-diuretic हार्मोन ( अध ), aldosterone और अलिंदी natriuretic पेप्टाइड.
प्रति netter 's एटलस of इंसान physiology, body जल is टूटा down into the following compartments:
Intracellular fluid ( 2/3 of body जल ).
Per Guyton, in a body containing 40 लीटर of fluid, परिचय 25 लीटर is intracellular, which amounts to 62.5 % ( 5/8 ), बंद पर्याप्त to the 2/3 rule of thumb.
Jackson 's ग्रन्थ राज्य 70 % of देह fluid is intracellular.
Extracellular fluid ( 1/3 of देह water ).
Per guyton 's उदाहरण, लिये a 40 लीटर body, परिचय 15 litres is extracellular, जिससे amounts to 37.5 % again, इस is बंद to the 1/3 rule of अंगूठा cited here.
प्लाज्मा ( 1/5 of extracellular fluid ).
Per Guyton 's illustration, of the 15 लीटर of extracellular द्रव, प्लाज्मा आवाज़ averages 3 लीटर.
इस amounts to 20 %, the वही as प्रति Netter 's एटलस.
अंतरालीय द्रव ( 4/5 of extracellular fluid )
transcellular द्रव ( a.k.a. `` तीसरा स्पेस, '' सामान्यतः उपेक्षित in calculations )
Contained अंदर organs, ऐसे as the जठरांत्र, cerebrospinal, peritoneal, और ocular fluids.
Self-esteem is a term प्रयुक्त in psychology to प्रतिबिंबित a person 's overall emotional evaluation of उसके or उसके अपना लायक.
It is a निर्णय of oneself as खूब as an रवैया toward the self.
Self-esteem encompasses beliefs ( लिये उदाहरण, `` i am competent, '' `` I am worthy '' ) और भाव ऐसे as triumph, despair, अभिमान and shame.
स्मिथ और Mackie define it by saying `` the self-concept is what we सोचो about the स्वः ; self-esteem, is the धनात्मक or ऋणात्मक evaluations of the self, as in कैसा we feel परिचय it. ''
self-esteem is भी ज्ञात as the evaluative आयाम of the स्वः कि includes जज्बात of worthiness, prides और discouragement.
One 's self-esteem is also closely संबद्ध साथ self-consciousness.
self-esteem is a disposition that a person रै which represents उनके निर्णयों of उनके अपना worthiness.
in the mid-1960s, मॉरिस rosenberg and social-learning पैरोकार पारिभाषित self-esteem as a personal लायक or worthiness.
nathaniel branden in 1969 पारिभाषित self-esteem as `` the experience of being competent to cope साथ the मौलिक challenges of life and होने worthy of सुख. ''
According to Branden, self-esteem is the योग of self-confidence ( a अहसास of निजी क्षमता ) and self-respect ( a feeling of निजी worth ).
it exists as a consequence of the implicit निर्णय कि every व्यक्ति रै of उनके ability to फेस जीवन 's चुनौतियां, to understand और solve समस्याएं, and उनके सही to achieve सुख, और be दिए आदर.
as a सोशल मनोवैज्ञानिक construct, self-esteem is attractive because शोधकर्ताओं have conceptualized it as an influential predictor of प्रासंगिक outcomes, ऐसे as academic achievement ( Marsh 1990 ) or exercise बर्ताव ( hagger et al. 1998 ).
in जोड, self-esteem रै also महरूम treated as an important निष्कर्ष due to इसके बंद संबंध with मनोवैज्ञानिक well-being ( दलदल 1989 ).
Self-esteem can apply specifically to a particular आयाम ( लिये उदाहरण, `` i मानना i am a good writer और i महसूस happy about कि '' ) or a वैश्विक extent ( लिये उदाहरण, `` i believe I am a ख़राब person, and feel bad about खुद in सामान्य '' ).
psychologists usually लिहाज़ self-esteem as an enduring personality characteristic ( `` trait '' self-esteem ), though सामान्य, short-term variations ( `` राज्य '' self-esteem ) also मौजूद.
Synonyms or near-synonyms of self-esteem शामिल : self-worth, self-regard, self-respect, and self-integrity.
A masonic आवास, प्रायः termed a Private आवास or constituent आवास, is the मौलिक organisational unit of freemasonry.
प्रत्येक नई आवास जरूर be warranted or चार्टर्ड by a ग्रैंड Lodge, लकिन is subject to इसके direction तभी in enforcing the प्रकाशित संविधान of the jurisdiction.
by एक्सेप्शन the तीन surviving lodges कि formed the संसार 's पहला known ग्रैंड Lodge in London ( today पुकारा the संयुक्त ग्रैंड आवास of इंग्लैण्ड ) have the अद्वितीय privilege to operate as समय immemorial i.e. बगैर ऐसे वारंट ; only एक अन्य lodge operates without a warrant - इस is the Grand stewards ' आवास in लंदन, although it is not भी entitled to the `` समय immemorial '' शीर्षक.
A Freemason is generally entitled to विज़िट any आवास, in कोई jurisdiction ( i.e. अंतर्गत कोई ग्रैंड आवास ) in amity with उसके अपना.
In कुछ jurisdictions इस privilege is प्रतिबंधित to निपुण masons ( कि is, Freemasons जो have attained the Order 's third उपाधि ).
he is पहला usually जरूरी to जाँच, and certify, the नियमितता of the संबंध of the Lodge - and be able to satisfy कि Lodge of उसके नियमितता of membership.
freemasons एकत्रित साथ as a Lodge to कार्य the three basic डिग्री of Entered Apprentice, Fellowcraft और Master Mason.
Pilkington समूह सीमित is a बहुराष्ट्रीय कांच निर्माण कम्पनी headquartered in St Helens, United किंगडम और a wholly स्वामित्व subsidiary of the japan-based NSG Group.
prior to इसके अधिग्रहण by एनएसजी in 2006 it थी an स्वतंत्र company listed on the लंदन भण्डार एक्सचेंज और for a time थी a constituent of the ftse 100 अनुक्रमणिका.
A quotation is the repetition of एक अभिव्यक्ति as भाग of another एक, विशेषकर जब the quoted अभिव्यक्ति is well-known or explicitly attributed by citation to इसके original सोर्स, and it is indicated by ( punctuated साथ ) quotation marks.
a quotation can भी refer to the repeated उपयोग of इकाई of कोई other form of अभिव्यक्ति, विशेषकर भाग of कलाकारी works : elements of a painting, दृश्यों इससे a फिल्म or भाग इससे a musical संयोजन.
साल 1877 ( MDCCCLXXVII ) was a common year starting on सोमवार ( कड़ी will प्रदर्शक the पूरा पंचांग ) of the Gregorian पंचांग and a common year starting on शनिवार of the 12-day slower जूलियन calendar.
ब्लैक pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering बेल in the family piperaceae, cultivated लिये इसके फल, जिससे is usually dried और प्रयुक्त as a spice और seasoning.
The fruit, known as a peppercorn when dried, is लगभग in व्यास, अंधेरा red जब fully वयस्क, और, like सब drupes, contains a single बीज.
peppercorns, और the मैदान pepper derived from उन्हें, may be वर्णित बस as pepper, or अधिक precisely as ब्लैक pepper ( पकाया and सूखी unripe फल ), ग्रीन pepper ( सूखी unripe fruit ) और श्वेत pepper ( dried पके seeds ).
Black pepper is देशी to दक्षिण इण्डिया, और is extensively cultivated वहीँ and elsewhere in तीव्र regions.
फिलहाल Vietnam is the world 's largest producer और exporter of pepper, producing 34 % of the world 's Piper nigrum क्रॉप as of 2008.
सूखी ground pepper रै महरूम प्रयुक्त since प्राचीनता for दोनो its फ्लेवर and as a medicine.
ब्लैक pepper is the संसार 's सबसे traded मसाला.
It is एक of the most आम मसाले added to यूरोपीय भोजन और इसके descendants.
the spiciness of ब्लैक pepper is due to the रासायनिक piperine, नहीं to be उलझन with the capsaicin that gives fleshy मिर्च theirs.
it is in the modern world, often युग्म साथ नमक.
आग hydrant in charlottesville, वर्जिनिया, यूएसए
a fire hydrant ( also ज्ञात colloquially as a आग प्लग in the संयुक्त राज्य or as a johnny पंप in New York नगर ), is an क्रियाशील fire सुरक्षा माप, और a source of जल provided in most शहरी, suburban और ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों साथ municipal water सेवा to enable अग्निशमन to tap into the नगरपालिका water सप्लाई to assist in extinguishing a आग.
इमारतें निकट a hydrant may qualify लिये an बीमे discount चूंकि अग्निशमन चाहिए be समर्थ to अधिक rapidly बुझा a fire on the insured प्रॉपर्टी.
the concept of आग plugs तिथियाँ to at least the 17th सदी.
This was a समय जब अग्निशमन responding to a कॉल होता खुदाई down to the लकड़ी water मेन्स और hastily bore a छेद to सुरक्षित water to लड़ो fires.
The जल would भरण the hole creating a अस्थाई well, और be transported from the खूब to the fire by बाल्टी brigades or, बाद, by hand-pumped आग इंजन.
The holes यहूद तब plugged साथ stoppers, सामान्यतः redwood, which over time came to be ज्ञात as आग plugs.
the स्थान of the प्लग would प्रायः be recorded or चिह्नित so that it could be reused in भविष्य फ़ायर.
This is the सोर्स of the colloquial पद आग प्लग still प्रयुक्त लिये fire hydrants today.
After the ग्रेट Fire of लंदन in 1666, the city संस्थापित जल mains साथ छेद drilled at intervals, equipped साथ risers, allowing an अभिगम point to the लकड़ी आग plugs इससे गली level.
the invention of a post- or pillar-type fire hydrant is generally credited to Frederick graff Sr., मुख्य इंजीनियर of the Philadelphia Water Works around the साल 1801.
it था a combination hose/faucet आउटलेट and थी of `` wet barrel '' डिज़ाइन with the valve in the top.
It is said कि Graff आयोजित the पहला पेटेंट लिये a आग hydrant, but this can not be verified क्युकी the पेटेंट दफ्तर in वॉशिंगटन D.C. caught on आग in 1836 destroying अनेक पेटेंट records इससे that period in the process.
The अध्यक्ष of the गणतंत्र of South Africa is the सिर of state और head of सरकारी अंतर्गत South Africa 's संविधान.
इससे 1961 to 1994, the सिर of राज्य was पुकारा the राज्य President.
the President is निर्वाचित by सदस्यों of the नेशनल सभा, the निम्नतर हाउस of पार्लियामेंट, and is प्रायः the नेता of the largest party, which has been the अफ़्रीकी नेशनल कॉंग्रेस चूंकि the first non-racial elections यहूद held on 27 अप्रैल 1994.
The भूमिका थी originally founded to be पृथक from the now defunct भूमिका of prime minister, but the दो भूमिकाएँ were merged in the 1983 संविधान which specified a four-year पद of दफ्तर.
The 1993 और बाद constitutions हद the अध्यक्ष 's समय in office to two five-year शर्तें.
the पहला President to be निर्वाचित under the नई संविधान थी Nelson मंडेला, और the incumbent president is Jacob zuma.
Under the अंतरिम संविधान ( मान्य इससे 1994 to 1996 ), वहीँ was a सरकारी of National Unity, in जिससे an mp इससे the largest opposition पार्टी थी entitled to a स्थिति as डिप्टी President.
साथ साथ Thabo mbeki, the पिछला State अध्यक्ष, f.w. de klerk also परोसा as डिप्टी अध्यक्ष, in उसके क्षमता as the leader of the नेशनल पार्टी जिससे थी the second-largest पार्टी in the नई Parliament.
लकिन de Klerk बाद resigned और गई into विपक्ष साथ उसके पार्टी.
a voluntary coalition government continues to exist अंतर्गत the नई संविधान ( अपनाया in 1996 ), हालांकि there have महरूम no नियुक्ति of विपक्ष राजनेता to the पोस्ट of डिप्टी अध्यक्ष.
खास education or खास needs education is the शिक्षा of विद्यार्थी साथ खास needs in a रास्ता कि addresses the students ' व्यक्तिगत differences और needs.
Ideally, इस process involves the individually नियोजित और systematically monitored व्यवस्था of शिक्षण procedures, adapted उपकरण और सामग्री, accessible settings, and other interventions designed to सहायता learners साथ special needs achieve a उच्चतर level of निजी self-sufficiency and कामयाबी in स्कूल and जातियाँ than होता be available if the छात्र यहूद तभी दिए access to a ठेठ कक्षा शिक्षा.
Common खास needs include challenges साथ learning, संचार challenges, emotional और behavioral विकार, physical disabilities, और developmental विकार.
Students साथ ये kinds of खास needs हैं संभावित to लाभ इससे additional शैक्षणिक services such as अलग approaches to teaching, use of प्रौद्योगिकी, a specifically adapted शिक्षण क्षेत्रफल, or resource room.
बौद्धिक giftedness is a अंतर in learning और can भी benefit from specialized teaching तकनीकों or different educational कार्यक्रम, लकिन the पद `` special शिक्षा '' is generally प्रयुक्त to specifically indicate instruction of students whose खास needs reduce उनके ability to सीख independently or in an ordinary classroom, और gifted शिक्षा is handled separately.
in सबसे विकसित देशों, educators हैं modifying teaching methods और environments so that the maximum number of विद्यार्थी are served in general शिक्षा environments.
खास education in विकसित देशों is often regarded less as a `` प्लेस '' and अधिक as `` a दायरा of सेवाएं, उपलब्धियाँ in every स्कूल. ''
संयोजन can reduce सोशल stigmas और improve academic achievement for अनेक विद्यार्थी.
the opposite of खास शिक्षा is general शिक्षा.
General शिक्षा is the standard curriculum presented with मानक teaching विधि और बगैर अतिरिक्त supports.
जार्ज Soros ( or ; ; ; born अगस्त 12, 1930, as Schwartz györgy ) is a hungarian-american कारोबार महारथी, निवेशकों, and philanthropist.
he is the अध्यक्ष of Soros निधि प्रबन्धन.
Soros supports progressive-liberal कल्याणकारी.
he is ज्ञात as `` the Man Who broke the बैंको of England `` क्युकी of his in investment profits during the 1992 ब्लैक Wednesday uk करेंसी संकट.
between 1979 और 2011, सोरोस gave away over $ 8 अरब to इंसान rights, पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य, और शिक्षा causes.
He निभाई a significant भूमिका in the peaceful transition from communism to capitalism in हंगेरियाई ( 1984–89 ) और provided एक of Europe 's largest उच्चतर education endowments to सेंट्रल यूरोपीय University in बुडापेस्ट.
सोरोस is भी the अध्यक्ष of the खोलें समाज संस्थान.
an कर्ता portraying सिकंदर ग्राहम Bell बोलना into an जल्दी मॉडल telephone.
The invention of the telephone is the culmination of work done by अनेक individuals, the इतिहास of जिससे involves a संग्रहण of दावा and counterclaims.
The development of the modern विद्युत टेलीफोन शामिल an सरणी of lawsuits संस्थापित upon the पेटेंट दावा of several individuals और numerous कंपनियाँ.
This article कवर the जल्दी years इससे 1844 to 1898, इससे धारणा of the idea of an electric voice-transmission यंत्र, to विफल कोशिशें to उपयोग `` make-and-break '' वर्तमान, to कामयाब प्रयोग साथ electromagnetic telephones by सिकंदर Graham Bell and थामस वाटसन, and finally to commercially कामयाब telephones in the late 19th century.
a निपुण of ठीक कला ( mfa, m.f.a. ) is a ग्रैजुएट उपाधि typically requiring 2–3 सालो of postgraduate study beyond the स्नातक 's degree ( bfa ), although the पद of पढ़ाई होगा vary by देश or by विश्वविद्यालयों.
The MFA is a creative उपाधि प्रायः awarded as a terminal degree in visual कला, रचनात्मक लिखने, filmmaking, नृत्य, or थिएटर और अन्य performing arts.
coursework is primarily of an लागू or performing nature with the program often culminating in a प्रमुख work or प्रदर्शन.
निपुण of ठीक Arts कार्यक्रम have generally जरूरी a bachelor 's degree prior to admission, लकिन many do not require कि the undergraduate प्रमुख be the same as the MFA फ़ील्ड of study.
the सबसे important admissions requirement रै प्रायः महरूम a sample पोर्टफोलियो or a performance ऑडिशन.
the Master of Fine कला differs इससे the निपुण of कला in कि the mfa, जबकि an अकादमिक program, centers around अभ्यास in the particular field, whereas कार्यक्रम अग्रणी to the ma usually center on the scholarly, अकादमिक, or नाजुक study of the फ़ील्ड.
additionally, in the संयुक्त States, an mfa is पहचाना as a terminal उपाधि for practitioners of Visual Art, डिज़ाइन, नृत्य, थिएटर, film/video, New Media, and रचनात्मक लिखने - अर्थ कि it is considered to be the उच्चतम उपाधि in इसके फ़ील्ड, और is प्रयुक्त as a न्यूनतम योग्यता to be able to लागू to become a Full-Time Professor शिक्षण at the विश्वविद्यालयों स्तर in these disciplines.
वहीँ are अपवाद to इस standard in the Arts, notably in the case of music प्रदर्शन, जहाँ the mfa is नहीं seen as a टर्मिनल degree in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of the more standardized dma degree.
it is also critical to नोट कि in the ब्याज of extending the कनेक्शन between रचनात्मक production और जारी academic research, some universities have स्थापित practice-based Ph.D कार्यक्रम in fields such as रचनात्मक writing, visual कला, नई मीडिया, डिज़ाइन and theater.
While इस रै had an प्रभाव in रचनात्मक लिखने, and to a lesser extent in design और new मीडिया, the influx of graduates इससे practice-based PhD कार्यक्रम रै not appreciably बदला the standard लिये the MFA as the टर्मिनल degree in सबसे कला disciplines yet.
This is an जारी contentious topic, और is the बारंबार विषय of academic panels, विशेषकर at the सालाना College आर्ट संघ सम्मेलन.
the CAA 2008 दिशानिर्देश regarding the mfa strongly re-affirms that the phd is not जरूरी as a टर्मिनल degree in the विज़ुअल arts.
The परमाणु bombings of the शहरों of हिरोशिमा and Nagasaki in Japan were conducted by the United States दौरान the फाइनल stages of World युद्ध ii in 1945.
the दो events are the only उपयोग of nuclear हथियार in युद्ध to date.
Following a firebombing अभियान कि नष्ट अनेक जापानी शहरों, the Allies prepared लिये a costly आक्रमण of Japan.
The युद्ध in यूरोपीय ended when नाजी Germany signed इसके instrument of surrender on 8 May, लकिन the प्रशांत युद्ध जारी.
साथ साथ the United किंगडम and the Republic of चीन, the United राज्य called लिये a surrender of जापानी in the Potsdam घोषणा on 26 जुलाई 1945, threatening जापानी साथ `` prompt और utter destruction ''.
the जापानी सरकारी उपेक्षित इस ultimatum, और the United States तैनात दो नाभिकीय weapons developed by the मैनहटन Project.
अमरीकी airmen dropped Little लड़के on the city of Hiroshima on 6 August 1945, followed by मोटे man over Nagasaki on 9 अगस्त.
भीतर the first दो to four महीने of the bombings, the acute effects killed 90,000–166,000 people in हिरोशिमा और 60,000–80,000 in नागासाकी, with roughly half of the मौतों in प्रत्येक नगर occurring on the first दिन.
the हिरोशिमा prefecture health विभाग अनुमानित कि, of the लोगों जो died on the दिन of the explosion, 60 % died इससे फ्लैश or flame burns, 30 % इससे गिरना मलबा and 10 % from अन्य causes.
दौरान the following महीने, विशाल संख्याएँ died from the effect of burns, radiation sickness, और other चोटों, compounded by illness.
in a US अनुमान of the कुल immediate and छोटी term कारण of मौत, 15–20 % died इससे विकिरण बीमारी, 20–30 % from burns, and 50–60 % from अन्य चोटों, compounded by बीमारी.
In दोनो cities, सबसे of the मुर्दे यहूद नागरिकों, although Hiroshima था a sizeable गैरीसन.
on 15 अगस्त, six दिनों after the bombing of नागासाकी, Japan घोषित इसके surrender to the allies, signing the Instrument of आत्मसमर्पण on 2 September, officially ending संसार युद्ध ii.
the bombings led, in part, to post-war जापानी 's adopting तीन non-nuclear सिद्धान्त, forbidding the स्वदेश from nuclear armament.
the भूमिका of the bombings in Japan 's आत्मसमर्पण and their ethical औचित्य are still debated.
Mohandas करमचंद Gandhi ( ; 2 October 1869 – 30 जनवरी 1948 ), commonly known as महात्मा Gandhi, थी the preeminent leader of भारतीय राष्ट्रवाद in British-ruled India.
Employing non-violent सिविल disobedience, गांधी led India to स्वतंत्रता और प्रेरित आंदोलनों लिये non-violence, सिविल rights and freedom across the संसार.
The son of a वरिष्ठ सरकारी official, गांधी was born and raised in a Hindu Bania community in coastal Gujarat, and trained in law in London.
गांधी became प्रसिद्ध by fighting for the सिविल अधिकारों of Muslim और हिन्दू Indians in South Africa, using new techniques of non-violent civil disobedience that he विकसित.
returning to इण्डिया in 1915, he नियत about organising peasants to विरोध excessive land-taxes.
a lifelong opponent of `` communalism `` ( i.e. basing politics on religion ) he reached आउट widely to all धार्मिक समूह.
He became a नेता of मुसलमान protesting the declining status of the Caliphate.
assuming नेतृत्व of the भारतीय नेशनल Congress in 1921, Gandhi led देशभर अभियान लिये easing गरीबी, expanding women 's अधिकारों, भवन religious and ethnic सौहार्द, समाप्ति untouchability, increasing आर्थिक self-reliance, और ऊपर all लिये achieving स्वराज —the independence of इण्डिया इससे British हुकूमत.
Gandhi led इंडियंस in protesting the नेशनल salt कर with the Dandi Salt कूच in 1930, और बाद in demanding the अंग्रेजों to immediately Quit इण्डिया in 1942, दौरान संसार War ii.
He थी imprisoned लिये that और for numerous अन्य राजनैतिक offenses over the years.
गांधी sought to practice non-violence और सच्चाई in all situations, और advocated that अन्य do the वही.
he saw the गांवों as the कोर of the सच्चा इण्डिया and promoted self-sufficiency ; he किया not support the industrialization programs of उसके शिष्य जवाहरलाल नेहरू.
he जिया modestly in a self-sufficient आवासीय जातियाँ और wore the परंपरागत Indian dhoti और चादर, woven with धागे he था हाथ spun on a charkha.
उसके मुख्य राजनैतिक दुश्मन in ब्रिटेन थी विंस्टन Churchill, who ridiculed him as a `` half-naked फकीर. ''
he थी a dedicated vegetarian, और undertook long fasts as means of दोनो self-purification और राजनैतिक mobilization.
In उसके पिछला year, अप्रसन्न at the विभाजन of इण्डिया, Gandhi worked to रोकें the carnage between मुसलमान, हिन्दुओं और सिखों that raged in the किनारा क्षेत्रफल between India and Pakistan.
He थी assassinated on 30 January 1948 by nathuram गोडसे जो विचार गांधी थी too सहानुभूतिपूर्ण to इण्डिया 's Muslims.
30 January is observed as शहीदो ' Day in India.
the honorific Mahatma ( `` ग्रेट Soul '' ) was लागू to him by 1914.
in इण्डिया he was भी पुकारा Bapu ( `` पिता '' ).
He is ज्ञात in इण्डिया as the Father of the स्वदेश ; his birthday, 2 October, is commemorated there as गांधी Jayanti, a national अवकाश, और world-wide as the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Day of Non-Violence.
Gandhi 's philosophy थी not theoretical लकिन one of pragmatism, कि is, practicing उसके सिद्धान्त in the पल.
पूछा to दे a संदेश to the people, he होता respond, `` My जीवन is my संदेश. ''
जोन Crawford ( March 23, ca. 1904 – May 10, 1977 ), born lucille fay lesueur, was an अमरीकी actress in film, television and थिएटर.
starting as a नर्तकी in traveling नाट्य companies पहले debuting on ब्रॉडवे, Crawford was signed to a गति चित्र contract by metro-goldwyn-mayer in 1925.
Initially कुंठित by the आकार and विशेषता of उसके भाग, क्रॉफर्ड began a campaign of self-publicity and became nationally ज्ञात as a flapper by the end of the 1920s.
In the 1930s, क्रॉफर्ड 's कीर्ति rivaled, और बाद outlasted, MGM सहयोगियों norma Shearer और greta Garbo.
Crawford often played मेहनती young महिलाओं जो ढूँढें romance और financial कामयाबी.
ये `` rags-to-riches '' कहानियां were well प्राप्त by Depression -era ऑडियंस and यहूद popular with women.
क्रॉफर्ड became एक of हॉलीवुड 's सबसे prominent फिल्म सितारों और एक of the उच्चतम सशुल्क महिलाओं in the United States, लकिन her films began खोने धन और by the end of the 1930s वो थी labeled `` box office ज़हर ''.
बाद an अनुपस्थिति of nearly two years इससे the स्क्रीन, क्रॉफर्ड staged a comeback by starring in मिल्ड्रेड Pierce ( 1945 ), लिये which वो जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Actress.
in 1955, वो became involved साथ the pepsi-cola कम्पनी through उसके विवाह to company Chairman Alfred Steele.
बाद उसके death in 1959, Crawford was elected to भरण his रिक्ति on the board of निर्देशकों but थी forcibly रिटायर्ड in 1973.
वो जारी एक्टिंग in फिल्मी और टेलीविज़न regularly through the 1960s, when उसके performances became fewer ; after the रिलीज of the अंग्रेजों horror फिल्मी Trog in 1970, Crawford रिटायर्ड इससे the screen.
following a पब्लिक रूप in 1974, after जिससे unflattering छायाचित्र were प्रकाशित, क्रॉफर्ड withdrew from public life और became increasingly reclusive जबतक उसके मौत in 1977.
क्रॉफर्ड married four times.
Her पहला तीन marriages ended in divorce ; the पिछला ended with the death of husband Alfred Steele.
वो adopted पाँच children, one of whom थी reclaimed by उसके जनम माँ.
क्रॉफर्ड 's relationships with her two पुरानी children, क्रिस्टीना and क्रिस्टोफर, यहूद acrimonious.
क्रॉफर्ड disinherited the दो और, after क्रॉफर्ड 's मौत, Christina लिखा a `` tell-all '' संस्मरण, mommie dearest, in जिससे she कथित a lifelong पैटर्न of physical and emotional गाली perpetrated by Crawford.
वो थी voted the दसवाँ greatest मादा star in the history of अमरीकी cinema by the American फिल्मी संस्थान.
1910 Buick Tonneau बगैर tonneau cover
1903 घाट Model a rear-door Tonneau
1903 lanchester rear-door tonneau
Tonneau कवर ( or ) describes a मुश्किल or नरम कवर प्रयुक्त to protect unoccupied यात्री seats in a convertible or roadster, or the cargo bed in a pickup ट्रक.
मुश्किल tonneau कवर खोलें by a hinging or फोल्डिंग यांत्रिकी जबकि नरम कवर open by rolling up.
The tonneau कवर is प्रयुक्त to छिपाते कार्गो.
जब the cover is खींचा out, it keeps वस्तुएं out of the सूर्य और provides अतिरिक्त security by keeping personal वस्तुएं आउट of sight, as खूब as shielding the driver इससे दृश्य.
ट्विटर is an ऑनलाइन सोशल नेटवर्किंग सेवा और microblogging सेवा कि enables its उपयोक्ता to भेजें और पढ़ा text-based संदेश of up to 140 वर्ण, known as `` tweets ''.
ट्विटर was created in March 2006 by जोकर dorsey और by जुलाई, the सोशल networking साईट was launched.
The service rapidly gained विश्वव्यापी popularity, साथ over 500 million पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता as of 2012, generating over 340 million tweets daily और हैंडलिंग over 1.6 अरब ढूंढें queries प्रति दिन.
चूंकि इसके लॉन्च, Twitter रै become एक of the टेन सबसे visited वेबसाइटों on the अंतरजाल, और रै महरूम described as `` the SMS of the अंतरजाल. ''
अपंजीकृत उपयोक्ता can पढ़ा tweets, जबकि पंजीकृत users can पोस्ट tweets through the website interface, sms, or a दायरा of apps लिये मोबाईल devices.
Twitter Inc. is आधारित in सैन फ्रांसिस्को, साथ additional servers और कार्यालयों in नई York नगर, बोस्टन, और सैन अंतोनियो.
the Hangover is a 2009 अमरीकी कॉमेडी फिल्मी, co-produced and निर्देशित by टॉड Phillips और written by Jon Lucas and Scott Moore.
it is the पहला फिल्मी of the hangover मताधिकार.the फिल्मी stars ब्राडली Cooper, ed Helms, zach galifianakis, हीथर ग्राहम, जस्टिन bartha, and जेफरी Tambor.
the hangover tells the story of फिल Wenneck, stu दाम और Alan गार्नर, जो travel to Las Vegas लिये a स्नातक party to celebrate their dost डग Billings ' impending विवाह.
however, फिल, stu and Alan have no मेमोरी of the पिछला रात्रि 's कार्यक्रम और जरूर ढूँढें डग पहले the विवाह can लो place.
Lucas और मूर wrote the स्क्रिप्ट बाद कार्यपालिका producer Chris Bender 's dost disappeared and had a विशाल विधेयक बाद being भेजा to a स्ट्रिप क्लबों.
बाद Lucas और मूर sold it to the studio लिये $ 2 million, फिलिप्स और जेरेमी garelick rewrote the स्क्रिप्ट to शामिल a tiger as well as a subplot involving a baby और a पुलिस क्रूजर, and also सहित boxer Mike टायसन.
फिल्मांकन took प्लेस in Nevada लिये 15 days, और during फिल्मांकन, the तीन प्रमुख actors ( Cooper, Helms और galifianakis ) formed a दोस्ती.
the hangover was released on June 5, 2009, बनने a नाजुक और commercial कामयाबी.
it became the tenth-highest-grossing film of 2009, with a विश्वव्यापी gross of over US $ 467 लाख.
आलोचकों praised the फिल्मी 's comedic approach लकिन criticized it लिये इसके vulgarity.
The film जीती the सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये Best गति चित्र – Musical or कॉमेडी, and प्राप्त अनेक other accolades.
It is the tenth-highest-grossing फिल्मी of 2009 in the संसार, as well as the दूसरी highest-grossing r-rated कॉमेडी ever in the United States, surpassing a रिकार्ड previously आयोजित by बेवर्ली Hills cop लिये almost 25 years और बाद होने surpassed by टेड in 2012.
आउट of सब r-rated films, it is the तीसरा highest-grossing ever in the u.S., behind तभी the जुनून of the Christ and the मेट्रिक्स reloaded.
a sequel, The hangover Part ii, was released in 2011, and a तीसरा and final फिल्मी, the hangover भाग iii, is नियत लिये release in 2013.
कार्यक्रम involving meiosis, प्रर्दशित chromosomal क्रॉसओवर
meiosis ( ) is a खास type of cell division necessary for यौन reproduction in eukaryotes.
the cells उत्पादित by meiosis are gametes or spores.
in many जीवों, सहित सब animals और जमीन plants ( but not कुछ other समूह such as fungi ), गैमीट हैं पुकारा sperm और अंडा कोशिकाएं.
Whilst the प्रक्रम of meiosis bears a number of similarities साथ the 'life-cycle ' कोशिका division process of mitosis, it differs in two महत्वपूर्ण आदरs:
the गुणसूत्रों in meiosis undergo a recombination which shuffles the genes producing a अलग जेनेटिक combination in प्रत्येक gamete, compared साथ the co-existence of प्रत्येक of the दो पृथक pairs of प्रत्येक chromosome ( एक प्राप्त इससे प्रत्येक जनक ) in each कोशिका जिससे परिणाम इससे mitosis.
the निष्कर्ष of meiosis is potentially चार ( genetically unique ) अगुणित cells, compared with the two ( genetically identical ) द्विगुणित कोशिकाएं उत्पादित from mitosis.
Meiosis begins साथ एक diploid कोशिका containing दो नक़ल of प्रत्येक chromosome —one इससे the सजीव 's माँ और एक इससे इसके पिता.
the cell divides twice, potentially producing up to चार अगुणित cells containing one नक़ल of प्रत्येक chromosome.
( `` Potentially '' because in some मामले, ऐसे as the गठन of oocytes in mammals, only एक of the संभावित four haploid कोशिकाएं survives. )
in पशु the अगुणित cell resulting from meiosis is a पुरूष or मादा gamete.
Each of the resulting गुणसूत्रों in the gamete cells is a अद्वितीय mixture of maternal और पैतृक DNA, resulting in औलाद कि हैं genetically पृथक इससे either जनक.
This देता rise to genetic विविधता in sexually reproducing populations.
इस जेनेटिक विविधता can provide the variation of शारीरिक और behavioural गुण ( phenotypes ) upon जिससे प्राकृतिक selection can act, लकिन, as described below in Section 6, Origin और फलन of meiosis, the genetic diversity may be largely a by-product of the समजात recombination कि is primarily employed लिये its DNA repair function during meiosis.
it is भी noteworthy कि दौरान meiosis, विशिष्ट जीनों हैं more अत्यधिक transcribed, and ये हैं पुकारा the meiome, the पद used in functional genomics लिये the meiotic transcriptome.
Meiosis is a कुंजी विशेषता for all sexually reproducing eukaryotes in which समजात chromosome pairing, synapse और recombination occur.
in addition to strong meiotic stage-specific अभिव्यक्ति of mrna ( the meiome ), however, there are भी pervasive translational controls ( e.g. selective usage of preformed mRNA ), regulating the ultimate meiotic stage-specific protein अभिव्यक्ति of जीनों दौरान meiosis.
यूँ, दोनो the meiome and translational नियंत्रण determine the व्यापक restructuring of meiotic cells needed to carry आउट meiosis.
Prior to the meiosis प्रक्रम the कोशिका 's गुणसूत्रों are duplicated by a गोलाकार of डीएनए replication, बनाना इससे the मातृ and पैतृक संस्करण of each chromosome ( homologs ) दो exact नक़ल, सिस्टर chromatids, attached at the centromere region.
in the शुरूआत of meiosis the मातृ and पैतृक homologs pair to प्रत्येक other.
तब वे typically एक्सचेंज भाग by समजात recombination leading to crossovers of डीएनए between the मातृ और paternal संस्करण of the chromosome.
Spindle fibers bind to the centromeres of प्रत्येक जोड़ी of homologs और arrange the pairs at the spindle equator.
तब the fibers खींचो the recombined homologs to opposite poles of the cell.
as the chromosomes मूव दूर from the center the कोशिका divides into two बेटी कोशिकाएं, प्रत्येक containing a अगुणित क्रमांक of गुणसूत्रों रचित of two chromatids.
After the recombined maternal और पैतृक homologs have अलग into the दो daughter कोशिकाएं, a दूसरी गोलाकार of कोशिका division occurs.
वहीँ meiosis ends as the दो sister chromatids making up प्रत्येक homolog हैं separated और move into one of the चार resulting gamete कोशिकाएं.
Upon fertilization, लिये example when a sperm enters an egg cell, दो gamete cells produced by meiosis fuse.
the gamete from the mother और the gamete from the पिता प्रत्येक contribute एक हाफ of the set of chromosomes that मेक up the new औलाद 's genome.
Meiosis uses अनेक of the same mechanisms as समसूत्रण, a प्रकार of cell प्रभाग used by eukaryotes जैसे plants and पशु to split एक कोशिका into दो identical daughter cells.
In all पौधे और in अनेक protists meiosis results in the गठन of बीजाणुओं : अगुणित cells that can divide vegetatively without undergoing fertilization.
मुक्केबाज़ी ( pugilism, prize लड़, the sweet विज्ञान or in यूनानी pygmachia ) is a martial art and combat sport in which दो people engage in a प्रतियोगिता of शक्ति, speed, reflexes, सहनशीलता और होगा by फेंकना punches साथ gloved hands.
amateur मुक्केबाज़ी is an ओलम्पिक and Commonwealth खेल and is a common fixture in सबसे of the प्रमुख अंतरराष्ट्रीय खेल - it भी has इसके own World Championships.
मुक्केबाज़ी is पर्यवेक्षित by a रेफरी over a series of one- to three-minute intervals पुकारा rounds.
the result is decided जब an प्रतिद्वन्दी is deemed incapable to continue by a रेफरी, is disqualified for तोड़कर a नियम, resigns by फेंकना in a तौलिया, or is सुनाया the विजेता or हारा based on the judges ' scorecards at the समाप्त of the contest.
The जनम घंटा of मुक्केबाज़ी as a sport may be इसके स्वीकृति by the प्राचीन यूनानियों as an ओलम्पिक game as जल्दी as 688 BC.
मुक्केबाज़ी विकसित from 16th- और 18th-century prizefights, largely in Great ब्रिटेन, to the forerunner of modern मुक्केबाज़ी in the mid-19th century, again initially in Great Britain और बाद in the संयुक्त राज्य.
In 2004, ESPN क्रमित boxing as the most मुश्किल sport in the संसार.
Agreement or concord happens जब a शब्द changes form depending on the अन्य शब्द to जिससे it relates.
it is an उदाहरण of inflection, और प्रायः involves making the मान of some grammatical category ( such as gender or व्यक्ति ) `` सहमत '' between different words or भाग of the वाक्य.
लिये उदाहरण, in Standard English, एक may कह i am or he is, लकिन नहीं `` i is '' or `` he am ''.
This is क्युकी the grammar of the भाषा requires that the verb और इसके subject सहमत in व्यक्ति.
the pronouns I and he are पहला and third person क्रमशः, as हैं the क्रिया forms am और is.
the क्रिया रूप जरूर be चयनित so कि it has the same व्यक्ति as the विषय.
the अनुबंध आधारित on overt grammatical categories as above is औपचारिक अनुबंध, in कंट्रास्ट to notional अनुबंध, जिससे is आधारित on अर्थ.
लिये उदाहरण, the phrase the संयुक्त States is treated as एकवचन लिये उद्देश्य of agreement, भी हालांकि it is formally बहुवचन.
इस is a सूची of स्थान below औसत sea स्तर कि हैं on land.
स्थान in tunnels, खानों, basements, खोदा holes ( भी with open आसमान ), अंतर्गत water, अंतर्गत बर्फ, or मौजूदा temporarily as a result of ebbing of समुद्र tide etc. are नहीं शामिल.
All आंकड़े are in meters below sea level:
Debbie macomber ( born अक्तूबर 22, 1948 in yakima, Washington ) is a best-selling American author of over 150 रोमांस novels और contemporary women 's fiction.
over 140 लाख copies of उसके किताबे are in छपाई throughout the संसार, और चार have become made-for-tv-movies.
macomber was the inaugural winner of the fan-voted Quill पुरस्कार लिये रोमांस in 2005 और रै been awarded दोनो a Romance Writers of America रीता और a आजीवन उपलब्धि award by the रोमांस Writers of अमेरिका.
Catonsville is a census-designated प्लेस ( CDP ) in बाल्टीमोर काउंटी, मेरीलैंड, संयुक्त States.
The population was 41,567 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
The जातियाँ lies to the वेस्ट of Baltimore साथ the नगर 's किनारा.
catonsville is the home of the विश्वविद्यालयों of Maryland, Baltimore County ( umbc ), a public research university साथ over 12,000 students.
A lawyer, according to Black 's विधि शब्दकोष, is `` a person learned in the विधि ; as an attorney, counsel or solicitor ; a person जो is practicing विधि. ''
विधि is the प्रणाली of नियम of conduct स्थापित by the sovereign सरकारी of a society to सही wrongs, maintain the stability of political और सोशल प्राधिकार, and उद्धार इंसाफ.
working as a lawyer involves the व्यावहारिक application of अमूर्त विधिक theories और ज्ञान to solve विशिष्ट individualized समस्याएं, or to अग्रिम the रूचि of those जो retain ( i.e., hire ) वकील to perform विधिक सेवाएं.
the भूमिका of the lawyer varies significantly आरपार legal jurisdictions, and so it can be treated यहाँ in तभी the सबसे general शर्तें.
वेक्टर विपणन is the घरेलू बिक्री भुजा of cutco निगम, an olean, New यॉर्क आधारित cutlery निर्माता.
the Family और Medical छोड़ अधिनियम of 1993 ( FMLA ) is a संयुक्त राज्य federal विधि requiring covered नियोक्ता to provide कर्मचारी job-protected and unpaid छोड़ for qualified medical and family reasons.
Qualified चिकित्सा and परिवार reasons शामिल : निजी or परिवार बीमारी, family सैन्य छोड़, pregnancy, अपनाना, or the foster care placement of a चाइल्ड.
the FMLA is administered by the मजदूरी and घंटा Division of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of मजदूर.
the bill was a प्रमुख भाग of President विधेयक क्लिंटन 's कार्यसूची in his first term.
अध्यक्ष क्लिंटन हस्ताक्षरित the विधेयक into विधि on February 5, 1993 ( ; 29 u.s.c. सेक. 2601 ; 29 cfr 825 ) and it took प्रभाव on अगस्त 5, 1993, छह महीने बाद.
The fmla थी intended `` to संतुलन the demands of the कार्यस्थल साथ the needs of परिवारों. ''
the Act allows योग्य कर्मचारी to लो up to 12 work weeks of unpaid छोड़ during any 12-month काल to attend to the गंभीर health कंडीशन of the कर्मचारी, जनक, spouse or चाइल्ड, or लिये pregnancy or care of a newborn child, or लिये adoption or फोस्टर care of a child.
in अनुक्रम to be योग्य for FMLA leave, an employee जरूर have been at the business at तनिक 12 months, और worked at least 1,250 घंटों over the पास्ट 12 महीने, और work at a स्थान जहाँ the कम्पनी employs 50 or अधिक कर्मचारी भीतर 75 miles.
the fmla कवर both public- and private-sector कर्मचारी, लकिन certain श्रेणी of कर्मचारी हैं excluded, सहित निर्वाचित officials and उनके निजी staff सदस्यों.
the वियतनाम युद्ध ( ) was a Cold War -era सैन्य conflict that occurred in वियतनाम, लाओस, and कंबोडिया from 1 नवम्बर 1955 to the पतन of साइगॉन on 30 अप्रैल 1975.
इस war followed the पहला Indochina युद्ध and थी लड़ा between North Vietnam, समर्थित by इसके कम्युनिस्ट allies, और the government of दक्षिण वियतनाम, समर्थित by the United राज्य and अन्य anti-communist countries.
the Viet Cong ( also ज्ञात as the नेशनल मुक्ति सामने, or nlf ), a हलके armed दक्षिण वियतनामी communist आम सामने निर्देशित by the उत्तर, largely fought a छापामार युद्ध विरूद्ध anti-communist शक्तियां in the region.
the वियतनाम लोगों 's फौज ( उत्तर Vietnamese फौज ) engaged in a more conventional war, at टाइम्स committing large इकाई into battle.
U.S. and दक्षिण वियतनामी शक्तियां relied on एयर superiority and overwhelming firepower to conduct search और नष्ट operations, involving मैदान forces, तोपखाने, और airstrikes.
The U.S. सरकारी viewed involvement in the युद्ध as a way to prevent a कम्युनिस्ट कब्ज़ा of दक्षिण Vietnam as part of their wider रणनीति of containment.
the उत्तर Vietnamese सरकारी and viet Cong यहूद लड़ to reunify Vietnam अंतर्गत communist नियम.
वे viewed the conflict as a औपनिवेशिक युद्ध, लड़ा initially विरूद्ध France, backed by the U.S., और बाद against दक्षिण Vietnam, which it regarded as a U.S. कठपुतली राज्य.
American सैन्य advisors arrived in कया थी then French इंडोचायना शुरूआत in 1950.
u.S. involvement escalated in the जल्दी 1960s, साथ troop levels tripling in 1961 and tripling again in 1962.
u.S. कॉम्बैट इकाई यहूद तैनात शुरूआत in 1965.
परिचालन spanned international सीमायें, with लाओस and कंबोडिया heavily bombed.
अमरीकी भागीदारी in the युद्ध peaked in 1968, at the time of the tet अप्रिय.
After this, U.S. ground शक्तियां were gradually withdrawn as भाग of a नीति ज्ञात as vietnamization.
despite the पेरिस सलाम accords, signed by सब पार्टियों in जनवरी 1973, fighting जारी.
u.S. सैन्य भागीदारी ended on 15 अगस्त 1973 as a परिणाम of the case–church amendment passed by the U.S. Congress.
the capture of साइगॉन by the वियतनाम लोगों 's फौज in अप्रैल 1975 marked the end of the war, and उत्तर and दक्षिण वियतनाम were reunified the following साल.
The युद्ध exacted a विशाल इंसान लागत in terms of fatalities ( देखिए Vietnam युद्ध casualties ).
Estimates of the number of Vietnamese सैनिको और नागरिकों मारे vary इससे 800,000 to 3.1 million.
कुछ 200,000–300,000 Cambodians, 20,000–200,000 Laotians, और 58,220 u.S. service members भी died in the conflict.
क्लीवलैंड ज्वालामुखी in the Aleutian आइलैंड्स of अलास्का photographed from the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Space स्टेशन, may 2006.
राख plumes reached a height of 19 km दौरान the climactic eruption at Mount Pinatubo, Philippines in 1991.
a ज्वालामुखी is an खोलने, or rupture, in a ग्रह 's सतह or क्रस्ट, which allows hot मैग्मा, volcanic राख और गैसों to एस्केप इससे the मैग्मा chamber below the surface.
Volcanoes are generally found जहाँ tectonic plates हैं diverging or converging.
a mid-oceanic लकीरें, लिये example the mid-atlantic Ridge, has examples of ज्वालामुखी caused by अपसारी tectonic प्लेटों pulling अलावा ; the प्रशांत Ring of आग रै उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी caused by convergent tectonic प्लेटों coming साथ.
By कंट्रास्ट, ज्वालामुखी हैं प्रायः नहीं निर्मित जहाँ two tectonic plates स्लाइड past one another.
Volcanoes can भी form जहाँ वहीँ is stretching and thinning of the धरती 's क्रस्ट in the interiors of plates, e.g., in the ईस्ट African Rift, the Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic फ़ील्ड और the रिओ ग्रांडे दरार in उत्तर अमेरिका.
इस प्रकार of volcanism falls अंतर्गत the छतरियाँ of `` थाली परिकल्पना '' volcanism.
Volcanism दूर इससे थाली boundaries रै भी महरूम explained as mantle plumes.
These so-called `` hotspots ``, लिये उदाहरण हवाई, हैं postulated to उठता इससे upwelling diapirs with magma इससे the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km deep in the धरती.
erupting ज्वालामुखी can पोज़ अनेक जोखिमों, not तभी in the तात्कालिक vicinity of the eruption.
volcanic ash can be a threat to वायुयान, in particular those साथ जेट engines जहाँ राख अणु can be melted by the high operating temperature.
Large eruptions can affect तापमान as ash और droplets of sulfuric एसिड obscure the सूर्य और कूल the धरती 's lower atmosphere or troposphere ; however, they भी अवशोषित ऊष्मा radiated up इससे the धरती, thereby वार्मिंग the stratosphere.
Historically, so-called volcanic winters have caused catastrophic अकाल.
A गहन pothole on नई यॉर्क City 's दूसरी एवेन्यू
a pothole ( sometimes called a केतली and ज्ञात in भाग of the पश्चिमी United राज्य as a chuckhole ) is a प्रकार of disruption in the सतह of a roadway जहाँ a portion of the सड़क material has टूटा दूर, leaving a hole.
renal कोशिका कार्सिनोमा ( RCC, also known as hypernephroma ) is a kidney कर्कट कि originates in the lining of the proximal convoluted tubule, the बहुत small tubes in the kidney that transport gf ( glomerular filtrate ) from the glomerulus to the descending limb of the nephron.
RCC is the सबसे common type of गुर्दा कर्कट in वयस्कों, जिम्मेदार लिये approximately 80 % of cases.
it is भी ज्ञात to be the सबसे lethal of सब the genitourinary tumors.
Initial उपचार is सबसे commonly a radical or partial nephrectomy and remains the mainstay of curative treatment.
जहाँ the ट्यूमर is confined to the renal parenchyma, the 5-year survival रेट is 60-70 %, but इस is lowered considerably जहाँ metastases have स्प्रेड.
it is relatively resistant to radiation चिकित्सा और chemotherapy, although कुछ मामले respond to immunotherapy.
targeted कर्कट therapies ऐसे as sunitinib, temsirolimus, bevacizumab, interferon-alpha, और sorafenib have improved the आउटलुक for rcc.
Estée lauder कंपनियाँ, inc. is a निर्माता और marketer of prestige skincare, मेकअप, महक और hair परवाह उत्पाद.
the company रै इसके headquarters in midtown मैनहटन, नई यॉर्क नगर.
the peritoneum ( ) is the serous झिल्ली कि फ़ॉर्म the lining of the abdominal cavity or the coelom —it कवर most of the intra-abdominal ( or coelomic ) organs—in amniotes and कुछ invertebrates ( annelids, लिये उदाहरण ).
it is composed of a layer of mesothelium समर्थित by a thin परत of संयोजी ऊतक.
The peritoneum दोनो supports the abdominal अंगों और serves as a conduit लिये उनके blood और लसीका vessels और nerves.
the abdominal गुहा ( the स्पेस bounded by the vertebrae, abdominal मांसपेशियां, diaphragm और श्रोणि मंजिल ) should नहीं be confused साथ the intraperitoneal space ( स्तिथ भीतर the abdominal गुहा, but लपेटा in peritoneum ).
the structures भीतर the intraperitoneal स्पेस are पुकारा `` intraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the पेट ), the structures in the abdominal cavity कि हैं स्तिथ पीछे the intraperitoneal space are called `` retroperitoneal `` ( e.g. the kidneys ), और those structures नीचे the intraperitoneal स्पेस are पुकारा `` subperitoneal '' or `` infraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the bladder ).
Modern 2.5 '' ssd प्रयुक्त in consumer लैपटॉप and डेस्कटॉप कंप्यूटर.
ddr sdram आधारित ssd.
अधिकतम and.
पीसीआई attached io त्वरक ssd
pci-e, DRAM, और NAND based SSD.
It उपयोग an बाह्य power सप्लाई to मेक the dram non-volatile.
A solid-state ड्राइव ( ssd ) ( भी known as a solid-state disk or इलेक्ट्रॉनिक डिस्क, हालांकि it contains no वास्तविक `` डिस्क '' of any दयालु ) is a data storage device using integrated सर्किट assemblies as memory to store आंकड़ा persistently.
ssd प्रौद्योगिकी उपयोग electronic interfaces संगत साथ परंपरागत ब्लाक input/output ( I/O ) मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव.
SSDs have no moving mechanical components, जिससे फर्क them from traditional electromechanical magnetic डिस्क ऐसे as मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव ( hdds ) or फ्लॉपी डिस्क, जिससे contain spinning disks और movable read/write heads.
compared साथ electromechanical disks, ssds are typically less susceptible to शारीरिक शॉक, much quieter, have lower अभिगम time, and less विलंबता.
However, while the दाम of ssds रै जारी to मनाही in 2012, ssds हैं स्टिल परिचय 7 to 8 times अधिक expensive प्रति unit of भंडार than hdds.
Many ssds उपयोग I/O interfaces विकसित लिये मुश्किल disk ड्राइव, thus permitting सरल बदलना in आम अनुप्रयोग.
, सबसे ssds use nand-based फ्लैश मेमोरी, जिससे retains आंकड़ा बगैर power.
For applications requiring तेज़ अभिगम, but नहीं necessarily आंकड़ा हठ बाद शक्ति घाटा, ssds may be constructed इससे random-access मेमोरी ( राम ).
ऐसे डिवाइस may employ separate शक्ति स्त्रोत, such as batteries, to maintain data after power घाटा.
Hybrid ड्राइव or ठोस state संकर ड्राइव ( sshd ) combine the features of ssds and hdds in the वही ईकाई, containing a विशाल मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव and an SSD संचय to improve प्रदर्शन of frequently पहुँचा data.
These devices may offer near-ssd प्रदर्शन लिये अनेक अनुप्रयोग.
Salmon roe ( left ) और sturgeon caviar ( सही ) परोसा with mother of पर्ल caviar spoons to avoid tainting the स्वाद of the caviar.
ossetra caviar, सामन creme fraiche, potato shallot croquette, बेसिल oil, अंडा whites और yolks
Caviar, according to the खाना and कृषि संगठन, is a product बना इससे salt-cured fish-eggs of the Acipenseridae परिवार.
the roe can be `` fresh '' ( non-pasteurized ) or pasteurized, साथ pasteurization reducing its culinary और economic मान.
traditionally the term caviar refers तभी to roe इससे जंगली sturgeon in the Caspian और ब्लैक समंदर ( Beluga, Ossetra and Sevruga caviars ).
Depending on the देश, caviar may भी be प्रयुक्त to describe the roe of अन्य मछली ऐसे as salmon, steelhead, ट्राउट, lumpfish, whitefish, और other प्रजाति of sturgeon.
caviar is माना a लक्ज़री कोमलता और is खाया as a garnish or a स्प्रेड.
in 2012, caviar sold for $ 2,500 प्रति पाउंड, or $ 3,000 to $ 5,500 प्रति किलो.
the सेक Network is a टेलीविज़न अनुप्रयोग संजाल featuring live प्रसारण of कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल और बास्केट कार्यक्रम इससे the Southeastern सम्मेलन.
It is owned और संचालित by ईएसपीएन प्लस और is दिखाया in more than 50 प्रतिशत of households in the United राज्य, mostly Southeastern United राज्य बाज़ार.
the सेक संजाल typically airs in the नून पूर्वी स्लॉट that थी former home to the raycom Sports सेक खेल of the सप्ताह.
खेल हैं shown locally on broadcast stations, regional खेल networks, as well as on ईएसपीएन GamePlan, ईएसपीएन Full अदालत, और espn3.com.
the सेक संजाल is भी available in कनाडा via Atlanta 's wpch-tv.
The SEC संजाल उपयोग the वही on-screen ग्राफिक्स फिलहाल used by ईएसपीएन on एबीसी, a version of ईएसपीएन 's graphics पैकेज.
सेक संजाल 's football programming स्टिल uses a शीर्षक सुरक्षित area क्युकी most of its affiliates do नहीं Letterbox उनके Standard Definition फ़ीड्स, while ESPN 's टेलीविज़न networks have अनुमत उनके ग्राफिक्स to लापरवाही the शीर्षक सुरक्षित, लकिन letterbox for SD दर्शक.
Starting साथ the सेक 2012 बास्केट ऋतु, SEC Network 's ग्राफिक्स have been परिवर्तित to a 16:9 Widescreen-only स्वरूप.
इस is also होने प्रयुक्त लिये the 2013 Basketball season, लकिन था still adapted the पूर्व 4:3-safe ग्राफिक्स स्वरूप for the 2012 SEC फ़ुटबॉल season.
The 1990s, सुनाया और also ज्ञात as `` the Nineteen-Nineties '' or abbreviated as `` the nineties '' or `` the '90s '', was a decade that began on January 1, 1990, और ended on December 31, 1999.
it थी the 10th और पिछला decade of the 20th सदी और the 100th और पिछला दशक of the 2nd मिलेनियम.
the दशक is बेहतरीन ज्ञात for the end of the ठंडा युद्ध at the beginning of the दशक और the विस्तार और व्यावसायीकरण of the Internet दौरान the दूसरी हाफ of the दशक.
In much of the वेस्ट the 1990s is remembered as a काल of unprecedented peace और समृद्धि, हालांकि many भाग of the so-called तीसरा World faced विभिन्न problems सहित नरसंहार, AIDS और नई or continuing ethnic तनाव and सिविल wars.
culturally speaking the decade was characterized by the rise of multiculturalism और वैकल्पिक media.
आंदोलनों ऐसे as grunge, the rave झाँकी और hip हॉप स्प्रेड around the संसार to young लोगों during the decade, aided by then-new technology ऐसे as cable टेलीविज़न और the Internet.
a combination of कारकों, including the mass mobilization of capital बाज़ार through neoliberalism, the beginning of the फैली अप्रसार of नई मीडिया ऐसे as the अंतरजाल, और the विच्छेद of the Soviet Union led to a realignment and reconsolidation of आर्थिक और राजनैतिक power across the world, and within countries.
आय असमानता among countries in the संसार rose sharply between the 1980s और the mid-1990s, before levelling off और तब गिरना बाद 2000.
नई जातीय विरोध उभरा in Africa, the balkans और the काकेशस, the former दो जिससे led to the rwandan नरसंहार और Bosnian genocide, क्रमशः.
The संयुक्त States began इसके current सैन्य occupation of the मध्य East दौरान the summer of 1990 with Desert Shield बाद it cut off a विशाल portion of the संसार 's पेट्रोलियम सप्लाई.
लक्षण of कोई resolution of तनाव between इसराईल और the अरब संसार remained elusive, though the आयरिश परेशानियों आए to a standstill in 1998 साथ the शुभ Friday अनुबंध बाद 30 years of हिंसा.
The gray भेड़िया or grey भेड़िया ( Canis lupus ) is a species of canid देशी to the wilderness और रिमोट क्षेत्रों of North अमेरिका, Eurasia, and North Africa.
It is the largest member of इसके परिवार, with males averaging, और females.
it is similar in सामान्य रूप और proportions to a जर्मनी गड़रिये, or sled श्वान, लकिन रै a larger सिर, narrower chest, longer टाँगे, straighter टेल और बडे paws.
Its शीत फर is long और bushy, और predominantly a mottled gray in colour, हालांकि nearly pure श्वेत, रेड, or भूरा to ब्लैक also occur.
Within the genus canis, the gray wolf represents a more specialised and प्रगतिशील form than इसके छोटी cousins ( the coyote और golden jackal ), as demonstrated by its morphological adaptations to hunting विशाल शिकार, its अधिक मिलनसार प्रकृति और इसके अत्यधिक उन्नत expressive behavior.
it is a सोशल animal, travelling in nuclear परिवारों consisting of a mated pair, accompanied by the जोड़ी 's वयस्क औलाद.
The gray भेड़िया is typically an apex predator throughout इसके range, साथ only humans and टाइगर्स पोज़ a serious threat to it.
it फ़ीड्स primarily on विशाल ungulates, हालांकि it also eats छोटी पशु, livestock, carrion, और कचरा.
The धूसर भेड़िया is एक of the world 's most well researched animals, साथ probably more किताबे written about it than any अन्य वन्यजीव प्रजाति.
it रै a long इतिहास of association with humans, having महरूम despised और hunted in most agricultural समुदायों due to इसके हमले on पशुधन, while conversely होने आदरणीय by कुछ Native American जनजातियों.
It is the sole ancestor of the श्वान, जिससे थी पहला domesticated in the मध्य East.
Although the भय of wolves is प्रचलित in many इंसान समाजों, the majority of recorded attacks on people have been attributed to पशु suffering from rabies.
Non-rabid भेड़ियों have attacked and killed लोगों, mainly children, but this is असामान्य, as wolves हैं अपेक्षाकृत few, सजीव दूर इससे लोगों, और have been सिखाया to fear इंसानो by hunters और गड़रिये.
शिकार और trapping has घटाया the प्रजाति ' दायरा to, हालांकि इसके स्टिल अपेक्षाकृत फैली दायरा और stable जनसांख्यिकी अर्थात् कि the प्रजाति is not threatened at a वैश्विक स्तर, and is इसलिए वर्गीकृत by the आईयूसीएन as तनिक चिंता.
The Roman साम्राज्य ( ) थी the post- Republican काल of the प्राचीन Roman civilization, characterised by an autocratic रूप of सरकारी और large territorial holdings around the भूमध्यसागरीय in यूरोपीय, Africa, और Asia.
the 500-year-old Roman Republic, जिससे preceded it, था been destabilized through a श्रेणी of civil युद्धों.
Several कार्यक्रम marked the transition from गणतंत्र to Empire, including जूलियस Caesar 's appointment as perpetual तानाशाह ( 44 BC ) ; the Battle of actium ( 31 BC ) ; और the granting of the honorific augustus to octavian by the Roman सीनेट ( 27 bc ).
the first दो centuries of the साम्राज्य यहूद a काल of unprecedented स्थिरता और समृद्धि known as the pax romana ( `` Roman सलाम '' ).
it reached इसके महानतम expanse during the शासनकाल of त्राजान ( 98–117 ad ).
in the 3rd सदी, the साम्राज्य underwent a संकट that threatened its अस्तित्व, but थी reunified and stabilized अंतर्गत the emperors Aurelian और diocletian.
ईसाइयों रोज़ to शक्ति in the 4th सदी, during which समय a system of dual नियम थी developed in the लैटिन West और Greek East.
बाद the collapse of सेंट्रल सरकारी in the West in the 5th सदी, the eastern half जारी as कया would later be known as the Byzantine साम्राज्य.
क्युकी of the साम्राज्य 's विशाल extent और long endurance, the institutions and संस्कृति of रोम था a profound और lasting influence on the विकास of language, religion, architecture, philosophy, विधि, और फ़ॉर्म of government in the territory it governed, विशेषकर Europe, and by means of European expansionism throughout the modern world.
Education in the संयुक्त States is mainly provided by the पब्लिक sector, with control and funding coming इससे three levels : लोकल, राज्य, और संघीय, in that order.
Child शिक्षा is compulsory, and there हैं also a विशाल क्रमांक और चौड़ी किस्में of higher शिक्षा संस्थानों throughout the देश कि one can चुनें to attend, दोनो सरेआम और privately administered.
पब्लिक शिक्षा is universally उपलब्धियाँ.
स्कूल curricula, funding, शिक्षण, नियुक्ति, and अन्य policies are set through locally निर्वाचित स्कूल फलक साथ jurisdiction over school districts साथ many directives from राज्य legislatures.
स्कूल जिले are usually separate इससे अन्य लोकल jurisdictions, साथ independent officials और budgets.
Educational standards and standardized परीक्षण निर्णय are प्रायः made by state सरकारें.
The ages लिये अनिवार्य education vary by राज्य.
it begins from ages पाँच to eight and ends from आयु चौदह to अठारह.
अनिवार्य शिक्षा requirements can generally be संतुष्ट by educating children in पब्लिक स्कूलों, state-certified private स्कूलों, or an स्वीकृत घर स्कूल कार्यक्रम.
in सबसे public और निजी स्कूलों, education is divided into तीन levels : elementary school, middle स्कूल ( sometimes पुकारा जूनियर ऊँची school ), और high school ( sometimes referred to as द्वितीयक शिक्षा ).
In almost सब स्कूलों at ये स्तर, children are विभाजित by आयु groups into ग्रेड, ranging इससे किंडरगार्टन ( followed by पहला ग्रेड ) लिये the youngest children in elementary school, up to बारहवीं ग्रेड, the final year of ऊँची स्कूल.
the सटीक आयु range of विद्यार्थी in ये ग्रेड स्तर varies थोड़ा from क्षेत्रफल to क्षेत्रफल.
post-secondary शिक्षा, better known as `` कॉलेज `` in the United States, is generally governed separately इससे the elementary and ऊँची school प्रणाली, and is described in a separate section नीचे.
Government समर्थित, free पब्लिक स्कूलों for सब प्रारंभ being स्थापित after the क्रान्ति, और विस्तारित in the 19th सदी, as the results of efforts of men जैसे होरेस मन and बुकर T. वॉशिंगटन.
By 1870, सब राज्य था फ़्री elementary स्कूलों, albeit only in शहरी centers.
As the 20th सदी खींचा nearer, राज्य प्रारंभ passing laws to मेक schooling compulsory, और by 1910, 72 प्रतिशत of children attended स्कूल.
निजी स्कूलों जारी to स्प्रेड during this समय, as खूब as कॉलेजों and—in the ग्रामीण centers— जमीन grant कॉलेजों.
The साल of 1910 भी देखी the पहला सच्चा high schools.
दौरान the बाकी of the 20th सदी, educational प्रयत्न centered on reducing the inequality of the schooling प्रणाली.
The लैंडमार्क परम् अदालत case भूरा v. फलक of शिक्षा made the desegregation of elementary and ऊँची schools a नेशनल priority, जबकि the pell Grant कार्यक्रम helped poor अल्पसंख्यकों gain access to कॉलेज.
Special education was बना into federal law in 1975.
the Elementary and द्वितीयक शिक्षा अधिनियम of 1965 बना standardized परीक्षण a आवश्यकता, और in 1983, a commission was स्थापित to evaluate उनके परिणाम and propose a course of action.
the resulting no Child बाएँ Behind Act of 2001 थी controversial और इसके goals proved to be unrealistic.
A आयोग established in 2006 evaluated higher शिक्षा, but इसके सुझाव have yet to be fully implemented.
पॉल Bragg ( February 6, 1895 – December 7, 1976 ), nutritionist, was a pioneer in America’s तंदुरुस्ती movement.
स्वास्थ्य spending per capita, in $ us ppp-adjusted, with the US and कनाडा compared amongst अन्य पहला world nations.
तुलना of the स्वास्थ्य परवाह systems in Canada और the United States हैं often बना by सरकारी, public health और पब्लिक नीति analysts.
the two countries था similar स्वास्थ्य care systems पहले Canada reformed इसके प्रणाली in the 1960s और 1970s.
the संयुक्त राज्य spends much अधिक धन on health care than कनाडा, on both a per-capita आधार and as a प्रतिशत of GDP.
In 2006, per-capita बिता लिये स्वास्थ्य परवाह in कनाडा was us $ 3,678 ; in the u.S., us $ 6,714.
the U.S. खर्च 15.3 % of जीडीपी on health care in कि year ; कनाडा spent 10.0 %.
in 2006, 70 % of health care बिता in Canada was financed by government, बनाम 46 % in the संयुक्त राज्य.
कुल सरकारी spending per capita in the u.S. on health care was 23 % higher than कनाडाई सरकारी बिता, और u.S. government व्यय on स्वास्थ्य परवाह थी बस under 83 % of कुल कनाडाई spending ( पब्लिक और private ) though ये आंकडे do n't take into खाता population differences.
Studies have come to अलग conclusions about the परिणाम of इस disparity in बिता.
a 2007 पुनर्विलोकन of all अध्ययन comparing स्वास्थ्य outcomes in Canada and the us in a कनाडाई peer-reviewed चिकित्सा जर्नल मिला कि `` health outcomes may be श्रेष्ठ in मरीजों cared लिये in कनाडा versus the United States, लकिन मतभेद हैं नहीं सतत. ''
जीवन expectancy is longer in Canada, और इसके शिशु mortality रेट is निम्नतर than कि of the U.S., लकिन there is debate about the underlying causes of these differences.
One commonly cited तुलना, the 2000 World Health संगठन 's ratings of `` overall स्वास्थ्य सेवा performance '', which used a `` कम्पोजिट माप of उपलब्धि in the level of health, the distribution of स्वास्थ्य, the level of responsiveness और fairness of वित्तीय योगदान '', क्रमित कनाडा 30th and the US 37th among 191 member राष्ट्र.
इस पढ़ाई रेटेड the us `` responsiveness '', or विशेषता of सेवा for individuals receiving treatment, as 1st, compared साथ 7th लिये कनाडा.
While the average life expectancy for canadians थी 80.34 सालो compared साथ 78.6 सालो for निवासियों of the us, simply comparing the जीवन प्रत्याशा of दो groups साथ अलग racial makeup और अलग मोटापा rates is likely नहीं an effective way of determining which healthcare system is superior.
The जो 's पढ़ाई methods were criticized by कुछ analyses.
Although वहीँ is a माप of सर्वसम्मति that life-expectancy और infant मृत्यु चिह्नित the सबसे विश्वसनीय तरीके to compare nation-wide health परवाह, assuming the population makeup is similar, a हाल report by the congressional Research सेवा carefully summarizes कुछ हाल आंकड़ा and टीप the `` difficult research मुद्दे '' facing international comparisons.
the ध्वनि सोर्स रै अभी broken through the sound गति अवरोध, और is traveling at 1.4 times the speed of ध्वनि, ( mach 1.4 ).
Since the source is moving तेज़ ( with a गति ) than the sound लहरें it creates, it actually लीड the advancing तरंगाग्र.
the ध्वनि सोर्स होगा pass by a stationary observer ( साथ a गति ) before the observer दरअसल hears the ध्वनि it creates.
as a result, an निरीक्षक in front of the source होगा detect
and an observer पीछे the सोर्स.
A sonic boom produced by an aircraft चलती at M=2.92, गणना from the कोन कोण of 20 degrees.
an observer hears the boom when the शॉक वेव, on the edges of the कोन, crosses उसके or her स्थान.
mach कोन कोण
A सोनिक बूम is the sound associated साथ the shock लहरें created by an ऑब्जेक्ट traveling through the air faster than the गति of sound.
Sonic booms generate enormous amounts of ध्वनि energy, sounding much जैसे an विस्फोट.
the crack of a supersonic गोली passing overhead is an उदाहरण of a sonic boom in miniature.
the Tonight दिखाएँ with jay लीनो is an अमरीकी late-night बात show hosted by Jay लीनो कि initially aired from May 25, 1992 to may 29, 2009, and resumed production on March 1, 2010.
the चौथी अवतार of the Tonight Show मताधिकार made its डेब्यू on May 25, 1992, तीन दिनों following जॉनी कार्सन 's रिटायरमेंट as मेजबान of the program.
the program originates इससे NBC studios in burbank, California, और is ब्रॉडकास्ट Monday through Friday at 11:35 PM in the पूर्वी and प्रशांत समय zones ( 10:35 PM Central / Mountain समय ).
Unlike कार्सन or his पूर्ववर्ती Jack paar, Leno only एकबार utilized a guest मेजबान, preferring to मेजबान the श्रेणी by himself.
On अप्रैल 26, 1999, the दिखाएँ began broadcasting in 1080i hdtv, becoming the first अमरीकी nightly talk show to be शॉट in ऊँची definition.
The दिखाएँ is shot in 16:9 पहलू ratio.
the श्रेणी, which followed the वही मौलिक format as that of उसके predecessors ( an opening monologue followed by comedy दिनचर्या, interviews and performances ), भागा जबतक May 29, 2009, after जिससे लीनो थी succeeded by कोनन o'brien.
NBC हस्ताक्षरित लीनो to a नई सौदे लिये a nightly बात show in the 10:00 pm ET timeslot.
The प्राइमटाइम श्रेणी, titled the Jay Leno दिखाएँ, debuted on September 14, 2009, following a समान format to the Leno incarnation of Tonight.
Neither O'Brien 's संस्करण of the कार्यक्रम, जिससे premiered जून 1, 2009, nor the jay लीनो Show उत्पन्न the ratings that NBC had अपेक्षित.
the network decided to move a सघन 30-minute संस्करण of लीनो 's show to O'Brien 's समय स्लॉट, और o'brien 's Tonight Show a half-hour later.
This निर्णय met साथ विपक्ष इससे O'Brien, जिनकी कार्यावधि on The Tonight दिखाएँ ended जनवरी 22, 2010, after which he began उसके own talk दिखाएँ on tbs.
The tonight दिखाएँ with jay लीनो then began इसके दूसरी और current incarnation, the छठे of the franchise, on March 1, 2010.
rfid चिप अगला to a अनाज of rice.
This चिप contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic field coil कि modulates an बाह्य magnetic फ़ील्ड to ट्रांसफ़र a coded identification क्रमांक when queried by a reader device.
This छोटी type is incorporated in consumer products, और implanted in पालतु, लिये पहचान उद्देश्य.
radio-frequency पहचान ( rfid ) is the बेतार non-contact use of radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ील्ड to transfer data, लिये the purposes of automatically identifying and tracking टैग attached to वस्तुएँ.
the टैग contain electronically भंडारित information.
Some टैग हैं powered और पढ़ा at छोटी सीमाएँ ( a few मीटर ) via चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड ( इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक प्रेरण ).
अन्य use a local power source ऐसे as a बैटरी, or else have no battery but collect उर्जा इससे the interrogating EM फ़ील्ड, and then अधिनियम as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or uhf radio लहरें ( i.e., इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण at ऊँची बारंबारता ).
Battery powered tags may operate at hundreds of meters.
नापसंद a बार कोड, the टैग does नहीं necessarily need to be within लकीर of sight of the रीडर, और may be embedded in the tracked object.
RFID टैग हैं used in many उद्योग.
an RFID tag संलग्न to an automobile दौरान उत्पादन can be प्रयुक्त to track इसके progress through the assembly line.
Pharmaceuticals can be tracked through warehouses.
पशुधन और pets may have टैग injected, allowing positive पहचान of the animal.
Since rfid टैग can be संलग्न to कपडे, possessions, or भी implanted भीतर लोगों, the सम्भावना of पढना personally-linked सूचना बगैर consent रै raised privacy चिंताएं.
Id, ego and super-ego हैं the तीन parts of the मानसिक apparatus defined in सिग्मुंड फ्रायड 's संरचनात्मक model of the psyche ; वे हैं the तीन सैद्धांतिक constructs in शर्तें of whose कार्यकलाप and बातचीत दिमागी जीवन is described.
According to इस मॉडल of the psyche, the id is the set of uncoordinated instinctual trends ; the super-ego plays the critical और moralizing role ; और the ego is the व्यवस्थित, realistic part that mediates between the इच्छाओं of the id and the super-ego.
the super-ego can stop you इससे doing certain बाते कि your id may want तुम to do.
Even हालांकि the model is संरचनात्मक और makes सन्दर्भ to an apparatus, the id, अहंकार and super-ego हैं कृत्यों of the mind rather than भाग of the brain और do नहीं correspond one-to-one साथ actual दैहिक structures of the दयालु dealt साथ by neuroscience.
the concepts themselves arose at a लेट स्टेज in the विकास of फ्रायड 's विचार : the `` structural मॉडल '' ( which succeeded उसके `` आर्थिक मॉडल '' and `` topographical मॉडल '' ) थी पहला discussed in his 1920 निबन्ध `` Beyond the Pleasure principle `` और थी formalized और elaborated upon तीन years बाद in उसके `` the अहंकार and the id ``.
फ्रायड 's प्रस्ताव was बहकावे by the ambiguity of the term `` unconscious `` and इसके अनेक conflicting uses.
एयर Force rotc emblem
the एयर फ़ोर्स आरक्षित Officer Training corps ( afrotc ) is एक of the तीन प्राथमिक commissioning स्त्रोत for officers in the United राज्य Air फ़ोर्स, the अन्य दो being the United राज्य एयर Force Academy ( USAFA ) और एयर फ़ोर्स अधिकारी Training स्कूल ( ots ).
a अधीनस्थ कमांड of the Air विश्वविद्यालयों भीतर the एयर Education और प्रशिक्षण कमांड ( aetc ), afrotc is aligned under the Jeanne M. Holm बीच for Officer Accessions और Citizen विकास at Maxwell afb, अलबामा.
the holm Center, formerly known as the एयर Force अधिकारी accession and प्रशिक्षण Schools ( afoats ), retains सीधा responsibility लिये both afrotc और OTS.
AFROTC is the largest और oldest सोर्स of commissioned अधिकारियों for the U.S. एयर फ़ोर्स.
AFROTC 's stated मिशन is to उपज विशेषता leaders लिये the u.S. एयर फ़ोर्स.
afrotc units हैं स्तिथ on 144 college and विश्वविद्यालयों campuses साथ 984 अतिरिक्त institutions of higher learning participating in cross-town समझौतों कि allow उनके विद्यार्थी to attend afrotc वर्ग at a आसपास `` मेजबान '' college or विश्वविद्यालयों.
According to afoats hq, in 2006, AFROTC commissioned 2,083 USAF Second Lieutenants, साथ afrotc नामांकन ranging इससे 23,605 in 1985 to 10,231 in 1993, और around 13,000 enrolled आज.
afrotc इकाई at colleges और विश्वविद्यालयों हैं पुकारा `` detachments, '' और are typically headed by an क्रियाशील ड्यूटी यूएसएएफ अधिकारी in the rank of कर्नल or lieutenant colonel who functions as both the detachment Commander लिये USAF उद्देश्य और साथ the nominal title of Professor of Aerospace अध्ययन ( pas ) भीतर the संस्था 's academic जातियाँ.
सबसे कॉलेजों और universities होगा designate the AFROTC detachment as the Department of Aerospace अध्ययन.
The pas is assisted by तीन to चार Assistant Professors of aerospace अध्ययन ( APAS ), सब active ड्यूटी यूएसएएफ officers in the बाँधने of प्रमुख or captain.
तीन USAF non-commissioned अधिकारियों and एक वरिष्ठ non-commissioned अधिकारी होगा typically provide सैन्य प्रशासनिक support और are often augmented by one to two civilian स्टाफ support employees of the academic संस्था.
भीतर AFROTC detachments, the विद्यार्थी ( referred to as `` cadets '' ) are व्यवस्थित into विंग्स, groups, squadrons, और flights, mirroring the यूएसएएफ कार्यात्मक wing ढांचा.
the AFROTC detachment 's cadet wing or cadet समूह is separated into दो विभाजन : the सामान्य Military Course ( GMC ) consisting of the पहला दो सालो of प्रशिक्षण, और the Professional अधिकारी Course ( poc ) consisting of the पिछला two सालो of प्रशिक्षण.
the AFROTC कार्यक्रम is also divided into two training कृत्यों : the Academic Classroom कार्यक्रम ( aerospace अध्ययन classes ) और cadet Activities ( i.e., नेतृत्व प्रयोगशाला, शारीरिक Training, and अन्य training ).
पेपर density ( भी known as आधार वज़न और grammage ) is a term प्रयुक्त in the pulp and पेपर उद्योग and भी लिये कपड़ा उद्योग to denote a measure of mass of the product प्रति unit of क्षेत्रफल लिये a प्रकार of fabric, पेपर or paperboard.
The पद `` घनत्व '' is not used in इसके traditional sense of द्रव्यमान प्रति ईकाई आवाज़.
`` Paper density '', बल्कि, is a measure of the क्षेत्रफल घनत्व.
Paper उत्पाद कि let छोटी or no लाइट pass through ( e.g. poster फलक ) are माना dense or heavy.
Paper उत्पाद कि allow some लाइट to pass through ( e.g. ऊतक paper ) are माना lightweight.
in the pulp और पेपर उद्योग, it is आम to set a commercial पेपर machine to उपज पेपर to a निशाना पेपर घनत्व.
Paper density can also be used to distinguish पेपर from paperboard as the latter प्रायः has a grammage वृहद than 134 g/m2.
Two तरीके of expressing paper घनत्व are commonly उपयोगd:
Expressed in गामा प्रति वर्गाकार मीटर ( g/m2 ), पेपर density is भी ज्ञात as grammage.
इस is the माप used in सबसे भाग of the संसार.
expressed in terms of the mass ( expressed as weight ) per क्रमांक of चादरें, it is known as आधार वज़न.
the सम्मेलन used in the संयुक्त राज्य और a few अन्य देशों using us paper आकार is पाउंड of a ream of 500 ( or in कुछ cases 1000 ) चादरें of a दिए ( कच्चा, स्टिल uncut ) basis size.
Japanese पेपर is expressed as the वज़न in kg of 1000 sheets.
Candace निकोल Parker ( born अप्रैल 19, 1986 ) is an अमरीकी बास्केट player for the wnba 's लॉस Angeles स्पार्क्स और ummc ekaterinburg of Russia.
She is the younger sister of एनबीए खिलाड़ी Anthony Parker.
She attended the University of Tennessee और was drafted by the स्पार्क्स in 2008.
She may be best known for होने the first स्त्री to dunk in an NCAA टूर्नामेंट खेल और the पहला woman to डंक twice in a कॉलेज game—she नियत दोनो माइलस्टोन as a redshirt freshman on कूच 19, 2006.
She also became only the second खिलाड़ी to डंक in a WNBA खेल on June 22, 2008.
A versatile खिलाड़ी, वो is मुख्यतः a आगे, but थी सूचीबद्ध on Tennessee 's roster as a आगे, बीच, और गार्ड.
She was a starter on the Lady vols बास्केट team, विजेता of the 2007 and 2008 ncaa championships.
पार्कर जीती the 2009 निकलोडियन Kids ' Choice award as the favorite मादा खिलाड़ी in the खेल category.
And वो थी a guest स्टार on Figure it आउट.
a खाना मार्गदर्शिका पिरामिड is a पिरामिड shaped मार्गदर्शिका of स्वस्थ भोजन विभाजित into भाग to दिखाएँ the अनुशंसित सेवन लिये प्रत्येक खाना group.
the पहला खाना पिरामिड थी published in स्वीडन in 1974.
The सबसे widely ज्ञात food पिरामिड थी introduced by the United States Department of कृषि in the साल 1992, थी updated in 2005, और तब replaced in 2011.
Over 25 अन्य countries और संगठनों have also प्रकाशित food पिरामिडों.
Hans ईसाई andersen ( ; प्रायः referred to in scandinavia as H. C. andersen ; April 2, 1805august 4, 1875 ) थी a डैनिश author and कवि.
हालांकि a prolific writer of plays, travelogues, novels, और poems, andersen is बेहतरीन remembered for उसके परी tales, a साहित्यिक genre he so mastered that he खुद रै become as mythical as the किस्से he लिखा.
Andersen 's लोकप्रियता is not सीमित to children ; his stories—called, or `` fantastic किस्से '' —express themes कि transcend आयु and राष्ट्रीयता.
दौरान उसके आजीवन he was acclaimed for having delighted children worldwide and was feted by royalty.
andersen 's परी किस्से, जिससे have महरूम अनूदित into अधिक than 125 languages, have become culturally embedded in the West 's सामूहिक consciousness, readily accessible to children, लकिन पेश lessons of पुण्य and resilience in the फेस of adversity for mature पाठक as well.
वे have प्रेरित गति तस्वीरें, plays, नाटिकाओं, and एनिमेटेड films.
दो आंकड़े locking आँखें in Caravaggio 's The सौभाग्य teller
नजर सम्पर्क occurs जब `` two people dekh at प्रत्येक अन्य 's आँखें at the same समय. ''
in human beings, eye सम्पर्क is a रूप of nonverbal संचार and is विचार to have a विशाल influence on सोशल behavior.
Coined in the जल्दी to mid-1960s, the term रै आइये in the वेस्ट to प्रायः define the अधिनियम as a meaningful और important sign of confidence और सोशल संचार.
the कस्टम और significance of नजर सम्पर्क vary widely between cultures, साथ धार्मिक और सोशल मतभेद प्रायः altering इसके अर्थ greatly.
the study of नजर contact is sometimes ज्ञात as oculesics.
bed bugs are parasitic कीट of the cimicid family कि feed exclusively on blood.
the term most commonly refers to members of the genus cimex of जिससे cimex lectularius, the common bed कीड़ा, is the बेहतरीन ज्ञात as it prefers to फीड on इंसान रक्त हालांकि अन्य cimex species are specialized to other animals, e.g., bat bugs, C. pipistrelli ( यूरोपीय ), C. pilosellus ( western US ), और C. adjunctus ( entire पूर्वी US ).
the name of the `` bed कीड़ा '' is निकला from the preferred आवास of cimex lectularius : गरम घरों और especially आसपास or अंदर of beds और bedding or other sleep क्षेत्रों.
bed बग हैं मुख्यतः active at रात्रि, but हैं नहीं exclusively nocturnal.
They usually फीड on their होस्ट without होने noticed.
a क्रमांक of प्रतिकूल स्वास्थ्य प्रभाव may परिणाम from bed bug bites, including स्किन rashes, मनोवैज्ञानिक effects, और allergic लक्षण.
निदान involves दोनो ढूंढना bed bugs and the occurrence of संगत लक्षण.
Bed बग have महरूम ज्ञात as इंसान परजीवी लिये हज़ारों of सालो.
at a पाइंट in the early 1940s, they were mostly eradicated in the विकसित संसार, लकिन have increased in prevalence since 1995.
क्युकी infestation of human habitats रै महरूम on the बढ़ाएँ, bed कीड़ा bites और related conditions have महरूम on the वृद्धि as well.
The किताब of Isaiah ( ) is the पहला of the latter Prophets in the यहूदी बाइबल, preceding ezekiel, यिर्मयाह और the किताब of the Twelve.
( the अनुक्रम of the subsequent किताबे differs somewhat in the Christian Old वसीयत ).
The first 39 chapters prophesy यातना लिये a sinful Judah और for सब the nations of the संसार कि oppose परमेश्वर, जबकि the पिछला 27 prophesy the restoration of the स्वदेश of इसराईल और a नई सृष्टि in God 's glorious future किंगडम ; this section शामिल the गीतों of the कष्ट नौकर, four separate passages referring to the nation of इसराईल, interpreted by ईसाइयों as prefiguring the coming of यीशु मसीह.
Tradition ascribes authorship of the किताब to यशायाह son of Amoz, but अभी विद्वानों widely सहमत that the book is the कार्य of तीन अलग लेखक - few scholars इनकार इस view, और those कि do, do so for theological reasons.
the पहला, termed proto-isaiah ( अध्याय 1–39 ), contains the शब्द of the 8th-century bce नबी साथ 7th-century bce expansions ; the दूसरी, deutero-isaiah ( अध्याय 40–55 ), is the कार्य of a 6th-century bce author writing निकट the end of the Babylonian captivity ; and the तीसरा, the काव्य trito-isaiah ( chapters 56–66 ), was रचित in Jerusalem shortly बाद the वापसी इससे निर्वासन, probably by अनेक authors.
ऑरेगॉन State विश्वविद्यालयों ( osu ) is a coeducational, पब्लिक शोध विश्वविद्यालयों स्तिथ in Corvallis, Oregon, संयुक्त States.
The विश्वविद्यालयों offers undergraduate, graduate और डॉक्टरेट degrees और a multitude of शोध opportunities.
वहीँ are more than 200 academic degree कार्यक्रम offered through the university.
osu 's programs in microbiology, नाभिकीय अभियान्त्रिकी, पारिस्थितिकी, forestry, पब्लिक health, biochemistry, zoology, oceanography, food science और pharmacy हैं recognized nationally as शीर्ष टियर कार्यक्रम.
the OSU 's liberal कला कार्यक्रम have भी grown significantly and the विभाग is माना a `` cornerstone '' of the institution.
More than 200,000 people have attended OSU since इसके founding.
The Carnegie न्यास classifies Oregon राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों as part of इसके शीर्ष टियर of शोध संस्थानों.
as of 2008, osu is one of only seventy-three land-grant विश्वविद्यालयों.
the स्कूल is भी recognized as a sea-grant, space-grant और sun-grant संस्था, making it एक of only two us संस्थानों to retain all चार designations and the तभी पब्लिक विश्वविद्यालयों to do so ( कॉर्नेल is the only अन्य साथ समान designations ).
as एक of the two फ्लैगशिप universities of the Oregon विश्वविद्यालयों System, osu receives more funding for शोध, annually, than सब other पब्लिक उच्चतर education संस्थानों in ऑरेगॉन combined.
मादा ejaculation is the expulsion of fluid by human महिलाओं from the paraurethral नलिकाएं through and around the मादा urethra during or पहले an orgasm.
it is भी ज्ञात colloquially as gushing or squirting, although these are considered to be अलग phenomena in some शोध publications.
the सटीक सोर्स and प्रकृति of the द्रव continue to be a टॉपिक of debate among चिकित्सा पेशेवर, जिससे is also related to संदेह over the existence of the g-spot.
the kanab ambersnail, scientific name Oxyloma haydeni kanabensis or Oxyloma kanabense, is a critically endangered subspecies or प्रजाति of small, air-breathing land snail, a स्थलीय pulmonate gastropod mollusc in the परिवार Succineidae, the amber घोंघे.
The आम नाम of the एम्बर घोंघे is based on the shell, which is पारदर्शी और जब खाली प्रायः resembles एम्बर in रंग.
This प्रजाति is endemic to the संयुक्त राज्य, specifically the राज्य of Arizona और Utah, जहाँ it थी पहला एकत्रित in the early 20th सदी.
it has महरूम सूचीबद्ध as endangered on the United राज्य मछली और Wildlife Service सूची of endangered species since 8 August 1991.
इस घोंघा जीवनदान in wetlands, स्रोतों, and seeps, और तभी two of इसके natural habitats are known to exist : Three Lakes, a meadow near kanab, यूटा, and Vasey 's स्वर्ग, a वसन्त साथ the कोलोराडो River भीतर Grand canyon नेशनल पार्क.
in इसके natural habitat it is बल्कि polyphagous, feeding मुख्यतः on bacteria, plants and fungi, और reproduces during the गर्मियाँ.
अभी considered a critically endangered प्रजाति on the आईयूसीएन रेड सूची of Threatened Species due to a श्रेणी of कारकों ( सहित influence ), the Kanab ambersnail has been reintroduced to three स्रोतों ऊपर the ऐतिहासिक ऊँची जल स्तर साथ the कोलोराडो River.
The स्पेनी language is the दूसरी सबसे used भाषा in the United States.
There are अधिक स्पेनी speakers in the संयुक्त राज्य than there हैं speakers of Chinese, फ्रेंच, जर्मनी, Italian, हवाई, and the Native American भाषाएं combined.
According to the 2010 अमरीकी जातियाँ सर्वेक्षण conducted by the u.S. Census ब्यूरो, Spanish is the primary language spoken at घर by almost 37 million people aged पाँच or पुरानी, a फिगर more than दोगुना that of 1990.
वहीँ are 45 लाख hispanophones जो बोलो Spanish as a पहला or second भाषा, as खूब as छह लाख स्पेनी भाषा students, composing the largest national spanish-speaking जातियाँ outside of मैक्सिको और बनाना Spanish the रोमांस language and the Indo-European language with largest number of देशी अध्यक्षों in the world.
Roughly हाफ of all U.S. स्पेनी अध्यक्षों also speak अंग्रेज़ी `` बहुत well, '' आधारित on the self-assessment Census question respondents.
the भाषा आए to the देश since the 16th और 17th centuries साथ the आगमन of Spanish colonists in areas कि होता later become the states of फ्लोरिडा, Texas, कोलोराडो, नई मैक्सिको, एरिज़ोना, Nevada, Utah, and California और of the स्पेनी explorers - who explored क्षेत्रों of 42 states-.
भी वेस्ट of louisiana territory थी स्पेनी between 1763 - 1800 ( year of the French recovery of territory ), after the फ्रेंच and भारतीय युद्ध.
After of the incorporation of these states to the U.S. in first हाफ of 19th सदी, the स्पेनी भाषा थी later reinforced by the अधिग्रहण of Puerto Rico in 1898 and by बाद waves of the हिस्पैनिक करणों, basically इससे Hispanic अमेरिका, to the United States beginning in the दूसरी half of 19th सदी until आज.
is a लैटिन word कि अर्थात् `` thus '' or, in writing, `` it थी यूँ in the source material ''.
Sic may भी refer to:
sic, cluj, a commune in रोमानिया
SIC, the क्षेत्रीय कोड लिये सिसिली
sic ( noise कलाकार ), styled as [ sic ], स्टेज name of जेनिफर मॉरिस, a Canadian noise कलाकार
sic ( बैंड ) is a आधुनिक hardcore/thrash मेटल बैंड from torshavn, the capital of the फरो Islands
`` ( sic ) '', a सोंग by American band Slipknot on the एल्बम slipknot
SIC, the initial of मार्को simoncelli.
SIC as an एक्रोनिम may स्टैंड for:
SiC, Silicon carbide, a semiconducting सामग्री, भी प्रयुक्त to मेक metalworking टूल्स
SIC ( cyclecar ) ( Società इटालियाना cyclecars )
Standard औद्योगिक वर्गीकरण, a 20th-century u.S. system for classifying industries
International Standard औद्योगिक Classification a UN प्रणाली लिये आर्थिक activities
शेटलैंड आइलैंड्स परिषद
the स्विस interbank Clearing प्रणाली
सैन isidro क्लबों, an अर्जेंटाइन rugby संघ club
खड़ा निर्वचन कमेटी, a कमेटी समर्पित to the interpretation of अंतरराष्ट्रीय accounting मानकों IFRS
schwarz सूचना मानदंड in the फ़ील्ड of statistics
Second-in-command in the फ़ील्ड of विमानन
Sistema interconectado सेंट्रल शक्ति grid in चिली
sociedade Independente de Comunicação ( sic ), a television चैनल in पुर्तगाल
समुद्र Isle City, नई Jersey, a तटीय town in the संयुक्त States
segmented पूर्णांक काउंटर mode, a mode of operation in cryptography
Sepang International सर्किट, a high-end racetrack कि होस्ट the Malaysian round of Formula 1
Shanghai अंतरराष्ट्रीय सर्किट, a मोटर racing venue in शंघाई, China
सरलीकृत निर्देशात्मक कंप्यूटर, a काल्पनिक computer प्रयुक्त in प्रणालियों प्रोग्रामिंग
sic ( Sons idées couleurs ), an जल्दी twentieth-century आर्ट पत्रिका produced by फ्रेंच लेखक Pierre Albert-Birot
southeastern Illinois कॉलेज, a दो साल Junior कॉलेज in harrisburg, इलिनोइस, संयुक्त राज्य
Specific आगमनात्मक क्षमता, abbreviated to SIC, which is more commonly ज्ञात as the सापेक्ष विद्युतशीलता or the परावैद्युत constant
st ignatius ' कॉलेज, Riverview, a Jesuit school in सिडनी, ऑस्ट्रेलिया
alt=five मुस्कुराना young लड़कियों in विभिन्न poses wearing white smocks over thigh-length dresses of समान रंग to their बाल.
The टोकियो Mew mew manga and दुश्मनी श्रेणी सुविधाएँ a डाल of characters designed by मिया ikumi.
The series takes प्लेस in Tokyo, जापानी, जहाँ पाँच adolescent लड़कियों, पुकारा mew mews, हैं infused साथ the डीएनए of endangered species to combat aliens attempting to लो over the धरती.
the manga श्रेणी is followed by a छोटी sequel श्रेणी, Tokyo Mew Mew a la विधि, which introduces a नई Mew Mew and a नई threat.
the Mew Mews are led by the प्रमुख character, ichigo Momomiya, whose पहला कार्य is to gather the other चार mew Mews : मिंट Aizawa, सलाद Midorikawa, खीर फोंग, and zakuro fujiwara.
as the series progresses, ichigo goes from having a crush on masaya Aoyama to बनने उसके गर्लफ्रेंड जबकि trying to hide her रहस्य double जीवन from him.
The श्रेणी antagonists शामिल तीन aliens, kish, पाई, और तीखा, and उनके नेता, Deep ब्लू.
originally from Earth, the एलियंस यहूद मजबूर to छोड़ long पहले due to घातक environmental परिवर्तन.
They have लौटे to kill the humans, जो they feel are destroying उनके planet, and reclaim the planet.
in a la Mode, मध्य स्कूल student Berry Shirayuki is introduced as the छठे mew Mew and, in the अनुपस्थिति of Ichigo, the temporary नेता of the mew mews.
A la विधि also introduces नई set of antagonists, the संत रोज़ Crusaders, a group of human teenagers साथ various मानसिक abilities साथ a ख्वाहिश to बनाएँ their अपना यूटोपिया.
Led by ड्यूक, वे make several कोशिशें to मार बेरी, eventually turning the लोकल populace against the mew Mews.
ikumi 's आरंभिक दृष्टि लिये Tokyo mew Mew was a story called टोकियो ब्लैक बिल्ली Girl कि featured a cat-girl battling alien invaders.
बाद the story थी transitioned to a more upbeat story of पाँच मादा superheroes, the character डिजाइन यहूद redone to have a हल्का, more रंगीन महसूस.
the main series वर्ण यहूद praised लिये होने a perfect अनुरूप लिये the overall स्टोरी, as खूब as लिये their cute दिखावे.
The characters introduced in a la विधि were also praised for उनके विज़ुअल दिखावे, but criticized as होने repeats of the असली series.
the अक्षर ड्यूक थी also criticized for having a डिज़ाइन reminiscent of the श्वेत सर्वोच्चता group, the ku klux Klan.
मध्य Triassic सीमांत marine अनुक्रम of siltstones ( below ) और limestones ( ऊपर ), Virgin गठन, southwestern Utah, यूएसए
Sedimentary rocks are प्रकार of चट्टान कि हैं formed by the deposition of सामग्री at the धरती 's सतह and भीतर bodies of water.
sedimentation is the collective नाम लिये processes कि कारण mineral and/or सशुल्क particles ( detritus ) to settle और accumulate or खनिज to precipitate इससे a समाधान.
अणु that रूप a sedimentary चट्टान by accumulating are called sediment.
पहले being deposited, sediment थी formed by weathering and erosion in a source area, और तब transported to the प्लेस of deposition by water, wind, बर्फ, द्रव्यमान गति or glaciers which are called agents of denudation.
the sedimentary rock cover of the महाद्वीपों of the धरती 's क्रस्ट is extensive, but the total contribution of sedimentary rocks is अनुमानित to be तभी 8 % of the कुल volume of the क्रस्ट.
sedimentary rocks हैं तभी a thin veneer over a crust consisting mainly of igneous and metamorphic रॉक्स.
sedimentary रॉक्स हैं deposited in परतों as strata, forming a ढांचा पुकारा bedding.
the पढ़ाई of sedimentary rocks and rock strata provides सूचना परिचय the subsurface कि is उपयोगी लिये civil अभियान्त्रिकी, लिये उदाहरण in the निर्माण of सड़कें, घरों, tunnels, canals or अन्य constructions.
sedimentary rocks हैं भी महत्वपूर्ण sources of natural संसाधन जैसे कोयले, चट्टान fuels, पीने जल or ores.
The study of the अनुक्रम of sedimentary rock strata is the प्रमुख source लिये scientific ज्ञान परिचय the धरती 's history, including palaeogeography, paleoclimatology and the इतिहास of जीवन.
the scientific अनुशासन that studies the गुण और उत्पत्ति of sedimentary रॉक्स is पुकारा sedimentology.
sedimentology is दोनो भाग of geology and physical geography और overlaps partly with अन्य disciplines in the धरती sciences, ऐसे as pedology, geomorphology, भूरसायन or structural geology.
350px
इंसानो are born साथ over 270 bones, some of जिससे fuse साथ into a अनुदैर्ध्य axis, the अक्षीय कंकाल, to which the appendicular कंकाल is संलग्न.
संत पैट्रिक ( ; ; Modern ; ; c. 387 – 17 कूच c. 460 or c. 492 ) थी a romano-british ईसाई missionary and bishop in आयरलैंड.
ज्ञात as the `` apostle of Ireland '', he is the primary patron संत of the द्वीप साथ साथ संतो Brigid और columba.
दो प्रामाणिक अक्षर इससे उसे जीवित, इससे which come the तभी generally accepted विवरण of उसके जीवन.
जब he was about 16, he थी captured इससे his home and लिया as a स्लेव to आयरलैंड, where he lived लिये six years before escaping और returning to उसके family.
बाद बनने a cleric, he लौटे to उत्तरी and western आयरलैंड as an ordained bishop, but little is ज्ञात परिचय the places जहाँ he worked.
by the seventh सदी, he था already come to be revered as the संरक्षक संत of Ireland.
Most available विवरण of उसके जीवन are from subsequent hagiographies, and these हैं अभी not स्वीकृत without विस्तृत आलोचना.
the annals of ulster state that he arrived in Ireland in 432, ministered in Ulster around 443, and died in 457 or 461.
The टेक्स्ट, however, distinguishes between `` बूढ़ा पैट्रिक '' ( विचार to mean palladius ) और `` पैट्रिक, archapostle of the स्कॉट्स, '' जो died in 492.
the वास्तविक तिथियाँ of पैट्रिक 's जीवन can नहीं be फिक्स्ड साथ certainty but, on a widespread interpretation, he थी active as a मिशनरी in Ireland दौरान the दूसरी half of the 5th सदी.
he is generally credited साथ होने the पहला bishop of Armagh, Primate of All आयरलैंड.
संत पैट्रिक 's दिन is observed on March 17, the तिथि of उसके death.
it is मनाये दोनो inside और outside आयरलैंड, as दोनो a religious और, विशेषकर बाहर Ireland, धर्मनिरपेक्ष अवकाश.
In the dioceses of आयरलैंड, it is दोनो a solemnity and a holy day of दायित्व ; बाहर आयरलैंड, it can be a जश्न of Ireland itself.
लकीर segments in the golden अनुपात
A golden आयताकार साथ longer side a और shorter side b, when लगाई सटा to a वर्गाकार with sides of length a, होगा उपज a समान golden rectangle with longer पक्ष a + b and shorter side a.
This illustrates the संबंध.
In गणित and the कला, दो quantities हैं in the सुनहरी ratio if the ratio of the sum of the quantities to the larger quantity is equal to the ratio of the larger quantity to the छोटी one.
The figure on the सही illustrates the ज्यामितीय संबंध.
expressed algebraically:
where the यूनानी letter फाई ( ) represents the golden ratio.
Its value is:
the golden अनुपात is भी called the golden खण्ड ( Latin : sectio ओरिया ) or golden औसत.
Other names include extreme and औसत अनुपात, medial section, दैवी proportion, divine खण्ड ( Latin : sectio divina ), सुनहरी proportion, सुनहरी cut, and सुनहरी क्रमांक.
अनेक 20th सदी artists और आर्किटेक्ट have proportioned उनके works to approximate the सुनहरी ratio—especially in the form of the golden rectangle, in which the अनुपात of the longer पक्ष to the shorter is the सुनहरी ratio—believing इस proportion to be aesthetically pleasing ( देखिए अनुप्रयोग और observations नीचे ).
mathematicians since यूक्लिड have पढ़ाई the गुण of the सुनहरी अनुपात, सहित इसके रूप in the आयाम of a regular प्रस्तुतीकरण और in a सुनहरी आयताकार, which can be cut into a वर्गाकार और a छोटी आयताकार with the same aspect अनुपात.
the सुनहरी ratio रै also महरूम प्रयुक्त to analyze the proportions of प्राकृतिक वस्तुएँ as खूब as man-made प्रणालियों ऐसे as financial markets, in कुछ cases based on dubious fits to आंकड़ा.
North myrtle बीच is a तटीय रिज़ॉर्ट city in horry काउंटी, दक्षिण Carolina, United राज्य.
It थी निर्मित in 1968 इससे four मौजूदा municipalities उत्तर of Myrtle Beach, और serves as one of the प्राथमिक tourist towns साथ the ग्रैंड strand.
the population was 13,752 at the 2010 census.
World युद्ध i ( WWI ) was a वैश्विक युद्ध केंद्रित in Europe that began on 28 जुलाई 1914 और lasted जबतक 11 नवम्बर 1918.
It थी predominantly पुकारा the संसार युद्ध or the ग्रेट युद्ध इससे its occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939, and the पहला World युद्ध or World युद्ध i thereafter.
It शामिल सब the world 's ग्रेट powers, जिससे were समवेत in दो opposing alliances : the allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom, फ़्रांस और Russia ) and the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the ट्रिपल Alliance of Germany, austria-hungary and इटली ; लकिन, as Austria–Hungary था taken the offensive विरूद्ध the agreement, इटली did not डालें into the war ).
These alliances यहूद दोनो reorganised और विस्तारित as अधिक राष्ट्र डाला the युद्ध : इटली, जापानी और the संयुक्त राज्य joined the Allies, and the उस्मानी साम्राज्य and Bulgaria the सेंट्रल शक्तियां.
ultimately, more than 70 लाख सैन्य कर्मियों, सहित 60 million europeans, यहूद mobilised in एक of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were मारे, largely क्युकी of technological advancements कि led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without सम्बन्धित सुधार in सुरक्षा or mobility.
it was the fifth- deadliest विरोध in संसार इतिहास, subsequently paving the रास्ता for विभिन्न political परिवर्तन, such as revolutions in many of the राष्ट्र involved.
एक of the long-term causes of the युद्ध थी the resurgence of साम्राज्यवाद in the foreign नीतियों of the ग्रेट powers of यूरोपीय.
More तत्काल, the assassination of archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of Austria, the heir to the सिंहासन of austria-hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by Yugoslav राष्ट्रवादी Gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a राजनयिक संकट जब Austria-Hungary subsequently वितरित an ultimatum to the Kingdom of सर्बिया.
अनेक alliances formed over the पिछला दशकों यहूद invoked.
भीतर weeks, the प्रमुख शक्तियां were at war and, via their colonies, the conflict जल्द स्प्रेड around the world.
On 28 जुलाई, the austro-hungarians fired the first गोलियाँ of the war as preparation लिये the आक्रमण of सर्बिया.
जबकि the russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral बेल्जियम and ध्वज on the way to France, providing a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's घोषणा of युद्ध against जर्मनी.
बाद the German कूच on पेरिस थी brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the marne —the पश्चिमी सामने settled into a static बैटल of अपघर्षण साथ a गर्त line that changed little जबतक 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the रूसी army थी कामयाब विरूद्ध the Austro-Hungarians, but थी रोका in इसके आक्रमण of ईस्ट Prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman साम्राज्य joined the war, खोलने up fronts in the काकेशस, मेसोपोटामिया और the sinai.
इटली और बुल्गारिया went to युद्ध in 1915 और Romania in 1916.
in रूस, the त्सार 's सरकारी collapsed in कूच 1917 और a subsequent क्रान्ति in November brought the russians to शर्तें साथ the सेंट्रल शक्तियां.
बाद a 1918 जर्मनी अप्रिय साथ the पश्चिमी front, the Allies drove back the germans in a series of successful offensives और American शक्तियां began entering the trenches.
जर्मनी, जिससे था इसके own ट्रबल साथ revolutionaries, सहमत to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
the युद्ध ended in victory लिये the Allies.
कार्यक्रम on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the बैटल fronts, as the participants आजमाया to mobilize उनके manpower and economic संसाधन to fight a कुल war.
by the समाप्त of the war, चार major imperial powers—the जर्मनी, Russian, austro-hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to मौजूद.
the successor राज्य of the former two lost a ग्रेट amount of territory, while the latter two यहूद dismantled entirely.
the मैप of सेंट्रल Europe थी redrawn into अनेक smaller राज्य.
The लीग of राष्ट्र थी formed in the hope of preventing another such विरोध.
The European nationalism शाखित by the युद्ध और the ब्रेकअप of empires, the परखना of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त and problems साथ the Treaty of versailles are सहमत to be कारकों contributing to World War II.
Camden is a city in camden काउंटी, नई जर्सी, संयुक्त States.
It is the काउंटी सीट, स्तिथ across the डेलावेयर River इससे फिलाडेल्फिया.
As of the 2010 संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी the नगर था a कुल जनसांख्यिकी of 77,344, representing a मनाही of 2,560 ( 3.2 % ) from the 79,904 residents enumerated दौरान the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी, which had in फेरे declined by 7,588 ( 8.7 % ) from the 87,492 गिने in the 1990 जनसांख्यिकी.
camden ranked as the 12th-most populous नगरपालिका in the राज्य in 2010 after having been क्रमित 10th in 2000.
Camden थी originally incorporated as a city on February 13, 1828, इससे portions of the now-defunct न्यूटन township, while the area थी स्टिल भाग of Gloucester काउंटी.
On March 13, 1844, Camden became भाग of the newly formed camden काउंटी.
हालांकि एकबार a thriving center for निर्माण और उद्योग, camden is perhaps बेहतरीन known लिये its struggles साथ शहरी dysfunction.
तीन Camden mayors have been jailed लिये भ्रष्टाचार, the most हाल होने मिल्टन मिलान in 2000.
चूंकि 2005 the स्कूल प्रणाली and police विभाग have महरूम संचालित by the राज्य of नई जर्सी ; the कब्ज़ा समाप्त in 2012.
In 2008, camden था the उच्चतम अपराधों rate in the u.S. with 2,333 violent crimes per 100,000 लोगों जबकि the नेशनल औसत was 455 प्रति 100,000.
Camden public स्कूलों spent $ 23,770 प्रति student ( $ 19,118 on a budgetary per-pupil basis ) in the 2009–10 स्कूल साल and two-thirds of the विद्यार्थी ग्रैजुएट.
Two out of प्रत्येक five निवासियों are नीचे the नेशनल poverty line.
Amitriptyline ( Tryptomer, Elavil, tryptizol, laroxyl, Saroten, sarotex, lentizol, endep ) is a tricyclic antidepressant ( TCA ).
It is the सबसे widely used tca and रै at तनिक बराबर efficacy against depression as the नए class of ssris according to a पढ़ाई इससे जल्दी 2001.
as well as reducing depressive लक्षण, ये types of tricyclics also आसानी migraines, tension headaches, चिंता attacks and some schizophrenic symptoms.
it is भी known to reduce आक्रामकता and violent बर्ताव.
A कंप्यूटर is a सामान्य purpose device कि can be programmed to carry out a finite set of arithmetic or लॉजिकल परिचालन.
Since a अनुक्रम of operations can be readily बदला, the computer can solve more than एक kind of प्रॉब्लम.
conventionally, a कंप्यूटर consists of at तनिक one प्रसंस्करण तत्व, typically a central प्रसंस्करण ईकाई ( cpu ) और some रूप of memory.
the प्रसंस्करण तत्व carries आउट गणित and लॉजिक परिचालन, और a sequencing and कंट्रोल ईकाई that can change the अनुक्रम of परिचालन based on भंडारित information.
परिधीय डिवाइस allow सूचना to be पुनर्प्राप्त इससे an बाह्य सोर्स, और the परिणाम of operations saved और पुनर्प्राप्त.
The पहला electronic digital कंप्यूटर were developed between 1940 और 1945 in the संयुक्त Kingdom और संयुक्त राज्य.
Originally वे were the size of a large रूम, consuming as much शक्ति as several सौ modern निजी कंप्यूटर ( PCs ).
in इस era mechanical analog कंप्यूटर यहूद प्रयुक्त for military अनुप्रयोग.
आधुनिक कंप्यूटर आधारित on एकीकृत circuits हैं लाखो to अरबों of times more सक्षम than the early machines, and occupy a fraction of the space.
सरल कंप्यूटर are छोटी पर्याप्त to अनुरूप into mobile devices, और मोबाईल computers can be powered by small बैटरी.
निजी computers in उनके विभिन्न फ़ॉर्म हैं icons of the Information आयु और are what सबसे लोगों सोचो of as “computers.”
However, the अंतःस्थापित computers मिला in अनेक डिवाइस from mp3 खिलाड़ी to fighter aircraft और from खिलौने to औद्योगिक robots हैं the सबसे numerous.
`` barefoot और गर्भवती '' is a phrase most commonly associated साथ the विवादास्पद विचार that महिलाओं चाहिए नहीं कार्य बाहर the home और should have अनेक children during their reproductive सालो.
it रै several other meanings as well.
it is a फिगर of speech.
the phrase `` barefoot और pregnant '' was probably first प्रयुक्त sometime पहले 1950.
an article इससे 1949 राज्य, `` By early 1949, twa was—in the शब्द of इसके नई अध्यक्ष, ralph S. damon—both 'barefoot और गर्भवती. ' ''
इसके usage may तिथि as जल्दी as the 1910s.
an आलेख प्रकाशित in 1958 राज्य the phrase थी first used by a `` dr. Hertzler '' 40 सालो पहले.
`` कुछ forty years ago, dr. Hertzler उन्नत a परिकल्पना which यंग women of आज seem झुकी on proving correct. '
The only रास्ता to keep a woman happy, ' he said, 'is to रखना her barefoot और गर्भवती. ' ''
Oakhurst is a census-designated प्लेस और unincorporated जातियाँ भीतर समंदर township, in Monmouth County, नई जर्सी, संयुक्त राज्य.
as of the 2010 संयुक्त States Census, the cdp 's जनसांख्यिकी was 3,995.
University of फीनिक्स स्टेडियम, opened अगस्त 1, 2006, is a बहुउद्देशीय फ़ुटबॉल स्टेडियम स्तिथ in ग्लेनडेल, एरिज़ोना.
it is the घर of the Arizona Cardinals of the National फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( NFL ) और the सालाना पर्व Bowl.
the स्टेडियम is located अगला द्वार to the jobing.com Arena और it सुविधाएँ the first fully retractable प्राकृतिक grass playing surface निर्मित in the United राज्य on शीर्ष of an एयरफील्ड प्रणालियों नाले प्रणाली.
an खोलने on एक पक्ष of the स्टेडियम allows the playing field to मूव to the exterior of the building, allowing the संपूर्ण natural turf playing सतह to be उजागर to daylight.
the स्टेडियम has hosted सुपर Bowl XLII, and the 2011 bcs National चैंपियनशिप Game, a game कि it hosts every चार सालो, जिससे नियत the स्थान 's entertainment attendance रिकार्ड of 78,603 on January 11, 2011.
It होगा again host सुपर कटोरी xlix in 2015.
the विश्वविद्यालयों of फीनिक्स acquired the naming अधिकारों in September 2006, shortly after the स्टेडियम था opened अंतर्गत the नाम कार्डिनल्स Stadium.
the `` विश्वविद्यालयों of Phoenix `` नाम is लागू as a कॉरपोरेट sponsor, और नहीं as the घर स्टेडियम of the University ( जिससे रै no intercollegiate एथलेटिक्स program ).
the stadium रै also hosted the डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई इवेंट रेसलमेनिया xxvi साथ 72,219 fans in उपस्थिति.
the इवेंट थी आयोजित in the स्टेडियम on March 28th 2010.
जोशुआ लॉरेंस Chamberlain ( सितंबर 8, 1828 – फ़रवरी 24, 1914 ), born as Lawrence जोशुआ Chamberlain, थी an अमरीकी कॉलेज professor इससे the राज्य of maine, जो volunteered दौरान the American Civil War to join the संघ फौज.
हालांकि having no पहले शिक्षा in सैन्य strategies, he became a अत्यधिक respected और सजा Union officer, reaching the रैंक of ब्रिगेडियर general ( and brevet major सामान्य ).
लिये his gallantry at gettysburg, he थी awarded the Medal of सम्मान.
He was दिए the honor of commanding the संघ सैनिकों at the आत्मसमर्पण ceremony लिये the infantry of रॉबर्ट E. ली 's Army at Appomattox, वर्जिनिया.
बाद the युद्ध, he डाला politics as a रिपब्लिकन और served चार one-year शर्तें of office as the 32nd राज्यपाल of maine.
he served on the संकाय, and as अध्यक्ष, of his alma mater, Bowdoin College.
An inning, or innings, is a fixed-length खण्ड of a खेल in कोई of a किस्में of खेल – most notably क्रिकेट और baseball दौरान जिससे एक टोली कोशिशें to स्कोर while the अन्य team attempts to prevent the पहला इससे scoring.
in cricket, the पद innings is दोनो एकवचन और बहुवचन and is always spelled और pronounced साथ the टर्मिनल `` s ''.
In बेसबॉल और softball, the singular form is inning and तभी the plural takes an `` s ''.
In अनेक अन्य खेल, the लंबाई of the खेल is लिखवाई by a क्लॉक और टीमों स्वैप offensive और defensive भूमिकाएँ dynamically by लेने possession of a बॉल or समान item.
In बेसबॉल and क्रिकेट, however, एक team, कहा to be `` बल्लेबाजी '', कोशिशें to स्कोर `` रनों '' —see चलाएं ( बेसबॉल ) और run ( क्रिकेट ) —while the other team, कहा to be `` क्षेत्ररक्षण '', कोशिशें to prevent the स्कोरिंग of रनों और मिलेंगी सदस्यों of the बल्लेबाजी team आउट.
the टीमों switch स्थान after the fielding टोली has succeeded in getting a फिक्स्ड number of खिलाड़ी out, बनाना a क्लॉक अनावश्यक.
in cricket, the पद पारी is भी used to refer to the play of एक particular खिलाड़ी ( स्मिथ था a ग़रीब पारी, स्कोरिंग तभी 12 ).
by एक्सटेंशन, इस पद can be प्रयुक्त in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी लिये लगभग कोई कार्यकलाप which takes a काल of time ( the Liberal government था a शुभ पारी, but finally lost दफ्तर in 1972, or तुम 've had a मेला पारी, अभी it 's my turn, अर्थ `` you have बोला लिये long enough, now let me speak '' ).
it is भी प्रयुक्त in reference to someone जो has died at a reasonably बूढ़ा आयु or जिया a rich और rewarding जीवन ( ah, खूब.
John थी 89.
At least he था a शुभ innings ).
the baseball-derived parallel to इस in अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी is the term at चमगादड़.
according to the Oxford अंग्रेज़ी शब्दकोष, the पद पारी रै महरूम used in reference to cricket चूंकि at तनिक 1735.
as cricket was a mature, highly व्यवस्थित खेल in the 1600s in England, the पद 's उत्पत्ति could well precede this पहला recorded उपयोग.
the शब्द inning अर्थ 'a महफ़िल in ' is पहला अंकित in 1522, and could be सम्बन्धित.
Adenosine deaminase deficiency, also पुकारा एडीए deficiency or ada-scid, is an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder कि कल्याणकारी immunodeficiency.
It occurs in fewer than one in 100,000 सजीव births worldwide.
it accounts लिये about 15 % of all cases of कठोर combined immunodeficiency ( SCID ).
it is very rare, you have a 3 % मौका of getting this gene.
एडीए कमियां may be उपस्थित in शैशव, childhood, adolescense, or adulthood.
आयु of onset और severity is सम्बन्धित to कुछ 29 ज्ञात genotypes संबद्ध साथ the disorder.
An उदाहरण of शहरी गरीबी in इस slum in Jakarta, Indonesia
Poverty is the राज्य of एक who lacks a निश्चित राशि of सामग्री possessions or धन.
निरपेक्ष poverty or destitution refers to the पिछडे of basic इंसान needs, which commonly शामिल food, water, स्वच्छता, कपडे, shelter, स्वास्थ्य परवाह और शिक्षा.
Relative गरीबी is defined contextually as economic inequality in the स्थान or society in which people live.
लिये much of इतिहास, गरीबी was माना largely अपरिहार्य as परंपरागत मोड्स of उत्पादन यहूद insufficient to दे an संपूर्ण population a comfortable मानक of जीना.
बाद the industrial revolution, द्रव्यमान उत्पादन in कारखानों बना माल increasingly more inexpensive और accessible.
of more importance is the modernization of agriculture, ऐसे as fertilizers, in अनुक्रम to provide enough उपज to फीड the जनसांख्यिकी.
the सप्लाई of मौलिक needs can be restricted by constraints on सरकारी services ऐसे as भ्रष्टाचार, tax avoidance, कर्ज़ और ऋण conditionalities and by the brain drain of स्वास्थ्य care और शैक्षणिक professionals.
रणनीति of increasing income to make मौलिक needs अधिक affordable typically शामिल welfare, आर्थिक freedoms, and providing financial services.
Poverty reduction is a प्रमुख लक्ष्य and समस्या for अनेक international संगठन ऐसे as the संयुक्त Nations and the संसार Bank.
The World Bank अनुमानित 1.29 billion लोगों यहूद living in absolute गरीबी in 2008.
Of ये, about 400 million people in निरपेक्ष गरीबी जिया in India और 173 लाख लोगों in चीन.
in USA 1 in 5 children lives in poverty.
in शर्तें of percentage of regional populations, sub-saharan अफ़्रीकी at 47 % था the highest incidence रेट of absolute गरीबी in 2008.
Between 1990 और 2010, about 663 million लोगों moved above the absolute गरीबी level.
स्टिल, extreme गरीबी is a वैश्विक challenge ; it is observed in all भाग of the संसार, सहित the विकसित economies.
मशरूम विषाक्तता ( also ज्ञात as mycetism ) refers to नुकसानदेह प्रभाव इससे ingestion of toxic substances उपस्थित in a mushroom.
These लक्षण can vary इससे पतला जठरांत्र तकलीफ to मौत.
the toxins उपस्थित are द्वितीयक metabolites उत्पादित in specific biochemical pathways in the fungal कोशिकाएं.
मशरूम poisoning is usually the result of ingestion of जंगली मशरूम बाद misidentification of a toxic mushroom as an edible species.
the सबसे आम कारण for इस misidentification is close प्रतिरूप in शर्तें of रंग और सामान्य morphology of the toxic mushrooms species साथ खाद्य प्रजाति.
Even बहुत अनुभवी जंगली mushroom gatherers are upon विरल अवसर poisoned by खाने toxic प्रजाति, despite होने खूब जागरूक of the risks, through carelessness.
to prevent mushroom poisoning, मशरूम gatherers need to be बहुत familiar साथ the mushrooms they intend to collect as खूब as साथ any similar-looking toxic प्रजाति.
In जोड, edibility of mushrooms may निर्भर on methods of तैयारी लिये कुकिंग.
Collectors भी need to be खूब aware कि edibility or toxicity of कुछ species varies with भौगोलिक स्थान.
इंसान ऊँचाई is the अलहदा from the bottom of the feet to the top of the head in a human देह, standing वीर्यपात.
When populations share genetic पृष्ठभूमि और environmental कारकों, average ऊँचाई is अक्सर characteristic within the समूह.
असाधारण ऊँचाई विभिन्नता ( around 20 % deviation इससे average ) within such a जनसांख्यिकी is sometimes due to gigantism or dwarfism, which हैं चिकित्सा शर्तें caused by विशिष्ट genes or अंतःस्रावी abnormalities.
In regions of extreme poverty or prolonged warfare, पर्यावरणीय कारकों like chronic malnutrition during childhood or किशोरावस्था may खाता for delayed growth and/or ( in severe मामले ) चिह्नित reductions in वयस्क stature भी बगैर the उपस्थिति of कोई of ये चिकित्सा शर्तें.
अपोलो 11 थी the spaceflight कि उतरा the first इंसानो, Americans Neil Armstrong और बज़ Aldrin, on the चंद्रमा on जुलाई 20, 1969, at 20:18 UTC.
आर्मस्ट्रांग became the पहला to कदम onto the lunar सतह 6 hours बाद on जुलाई 21 at 02:56 utc.
Armstrong खर्च about दो और a half घंटों बाहर the spacecraft, एल्ड्रिन थोड़ा कम ; and साथ they collected of चंद्र material for वापसी to धरती.
a third member of the mission, Michael कॉलिन्स, piloted the कमांड spacecraft alone in चंद्र कक्षा until आर्मस्ट्रांग and एल्ड्रिन returned to it just अंतर्गत a day later लिये the trip वापस to धरती.
शुभारम्भ by a शनि v प्रक्षेपास्त्र इससे Kennedy Space Center in merritt द्वीप, फ्लोरिडा on जुलाई 16, Apollo 11 was the fifth manned mission of नासा 's अपोलो कार्यक्रम.
The अपोलो spacecraft था three parts : a कमांड मोड्यूल साथ a केबिन लिये the three astronauts जिससे थी the only part जिससे उतरा वापस on धरती ; a सेवा Module which समर्थित the कमांड मोड्यूल साथ नोदन, electrical शक्ति, oxygen और water ; and a चंद्र Module for landing on the चंद्रमा.
बाद होने भेजा to the चंद्रमा by the शनि v 's upper स्टेज, the astronauts अलग the spacecraft from it और travelled for three दिनों until वे entered into चंद्र orbit.
आर्मस्ट्रांग and एल्ड्रिन then moved into the चंद्र मोड्यूल और landed in the समुद्र of tranquility.
वे stayed a कुल of about 21 and a हाफ hours on the चंद्र सतह.
बाद उठाने off in the upper part of the Lunar मोड्यूल और rejoining कॉलिन्स in the कमांड मोड्यूल, वे returned to Earth और उतरा in the Pacific समंदर on July 24.
Broadcast on live TV to a world-wide audience, आर्मस्ट्रांग stepped onto the चंद्र surface and वर्णित the event as `` one छोटी step for [ a ] man, one giant छलांग for mankind. ''
Apollo 11 effectively ended the स्पेस रेस और fulfilled a नेशनल goal प्रस्तावित in 1961 by the लेट U.S. अध्यक्ष John F. कैनेडी in a speech पहले the United States Congress, `` before this दशक is out, of लैंडिंग a man on the चंद्रमा and returning him सकुशल to the धरती. ''
The फीफा संसार Cup, प्रायः बस the World कप, is an अंतरराष्ट्रीय association फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिता लडे by the senior men 's नेशनल टीमों of the members of Fédération internationale de फ़ुटबॉल Association ( FIFA ), the खेल 's वैश्विक शासी देह.
the championship रै been awarded प्रत्येक चार years since the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1930, except in 1942 और 1946 when it थी नहीं आयोजित because of the Second संसार War.
the वर्तमान champions are स्पेन, जो जीती the 2010 टूर्नामेंट.
The वर्तमान format of the टूर्नामेंट involves 32 teams स्पर्धा लिये the title at venues within the मेजबान nation ( s ) over a period of about a माह ; इस phase is often पुकारा the संसार Cup फाइनल.
a qualification phase, जिससे फिलहाल takes place over the preceding तीन सालो, is प्रयुक्त to determine which टीमों qualify लिये the टूर्नामेंट साथ with the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ).
the 19 संसार कप tournaments have महरूम जीती by eight अलग नेशनल टीमों.
ब्राज़ील have won five times, and वे हैं the only टोली to have निभाई in every tournament.
The other World कप winners हैं इटली, साथ four titles ; जर्मनी, with three शीर्षक ; अर्जेंटीना और inaugural winners उरुग्वे, with two शीर्षक प्रत्येक ; और इंग्लैण्ड, फ़्रांस, and स्पेन, with एक title प्रत्येक.
the World कप is the world 's सबसे widely viewed sporting event ; an अनुमानित 715.1 million लोगों देखी the फाइनल मैच of the 2006 फीफा संसार Cup held in जर्मनी.
The next three संसार Cups होगा be hosted by Brazil in 2014, रूस in 2018, and क़तर in 2022.
नरसंहार is a पद coined in 1944 by राफेल lemkin to describe the deliberate और systematic विनाश, in पूरे or in part, of an जातीय, racial, religious, or नेशनल group.
It is पारिभाषित in Article 2 of the Convention on the रोकथाम और दंड of the अपराधों of नरसंहार ( CPPCG ) of 1948 as `` कोई of the following अधिनियमों committed साथ intent to destroy, in whole or in भाग, a national, ethnical, जातिगत or धार्मिक समूह, as ऐसे : हत्या सदस्यों of the समूह ; causing serious bodily or दिमागी harm to सदस्यों of the समूह ; deliberately inflicting on the समूह conditions of life, गणना to लाओ परिचय इसके शारीरिक विनाश in पूरे or in भाग ; imposing उपायों intended to prevent births भीतर the समूह ; [ and ] forcibly transferring children of the समूह to another समूह. ''
Skulls of victims of the rwandan Genocide
the प्रस्तावना to the CPPCG नहीं only राज्य that `` genocide is a crime अंतर्गत international विधि, contrary to the स्पिरिट and aims of the United Nations और condemned by the civilized संसार '', लकिन भी कि `` at सब periods of history नरसंहार रै inflicted ग्रेट नुकसान on humanity ''.
Determining कया ऐतिहासिक कार्यक्रम constitute a नरसंहार and जिससे हैं merely criminal or inhuman behavior is नहीं a clear-cut matter.
in nearly every मामला जहाँ accusations of नरसंहार have परिचालित, partisans of विभिन्न sides have fiercely विवादित the interpretation और विवरण of the इवेंट, प्रायः to the पाइंट of promoting wildly different संस्करण of the तथ्य.
an accusation of genocide is certainly not taken हलके and होगा almost सदा be विवादास्पद.
the following सूची of genocides और alleged genocides should be understood in इस कॉन्टेक्स्ट and can not be regarded as the फाइनल शब्द on ये विषय.
A समय बेल्ट is a non-slipping mechanical drive बेल्ट and the पद may refer to either:
toothed belt, a flexible बेल्ट साथ दांत moulded onto इसके भीतरी सतह
समय बेल्ट ( camshaft ), a toothed belt प्रयुक्त to ड्राइव the camshaft ( s ) within an आतंरिक combustion engine
the संस्कृति of the United राज्य is primarily a पश्चिमी culture, but is भी influenced by देशी अमरीकी, African, एशियाई, पोलिनेशियाई, and Latin American संस्कृतियों.
American culture प्रारंभ its गठन over 10,000 years ago साथ the माइग्रेशन of paleo-indians इससे एशिया into the प्रदेश कि is आज the महाद्वीपीय United States.
it रै its अपना अद्वितीय सोशल and cultural विशेषताएँ ऐसे as dialect, म्यूज़िक, कला, सोशल habits, cuisine, and लोकगीत.
the संयुक्त States of अमेरिका is an ethnically और racially diverse देश as a परिणाम of large-scale immigration इससे अनेक अलग देशों throughout इसके history.
Its chief जल्दी यूरोपीय प्रभाव came from English, स्कॉटिश, वेल्श and Irish settlers of औपनिवेशिक अमेरिका दौरान अंग्रेजों नियम.
अंग्रेजों culture, due to औपनिवेशिक ties with Britain कि स्प्रेड the अंग्रेज़ी भाषा, legal प्रणाली और other सांस्कृतिक inheritances, था a formative influence.
अन्य important प्रभाव आए इससे other parts of western यूरोपीय, विशेषकर जर्मनी, फ़्रांस, and Italy.
Original तत्व भी खेल a दमदार भूमिका, such as the आविष्कार of jeffersonian democracy.
थामस जेफरसन 's टीप on the राज्य of वर्जिनिया थी perhaps the पहला influential घरेलू cultural critique by an अमरीकी और a reactionary टुकड़ा to the प्रचलित यूरोपीय consensus कि अमेरिका 's घरेलू originality थी degenerate.
Prevalent विचार और आदर्शों कि विकसित domestically, ऐसे as national छुट्टियाँ, uniquely अमरीकी खेल, सैन्य परंपरा, और innovations in the कला और entertainment दे a दमदार भाव of national pride among the population as a whole.
American culture includes दोनो conservative और उदार तत्व, वैज्ञानिक और धार्मिक प्रतिस्पर्धात्मकता, political structures, रिस्क taking and free अभिव्यक्ति, materialist और moral elements.
Despite निश्चित सतत ideological principles ( e.g. व्यक्तिगत, egalitarianism, and आस्था in स्वतंत्रता और लोकतंत्र ), American संस्कृति रै a variety of expressions due to its geographical scale and demographic विविधता.
The लचीलापन of U.S. culture और इसके अत्यधिक symbolic प्रकृति lead कुछ शोधकर्ताओं to categorize अमरीकी culture as a mythic पहचान ; others देखिए it as American exceptionalism.
It भी includes elements that विकसित इससे स्वदेशी अमेरिकी, और अन्य ethnic cultures—most prominently the culture of अफ़्रीकी Americans, cultures इससे लैटिन अमेरिका, और Asian अमरीकी cultures.
अनेक अमरीकी cultural तत्व, especially इससे popular culture, have spread across the globe through आधुनिक द्रव्यमान मीडिया.
The United राज्य has often महरूम thought of as a melting घट, लकिन beginning in the लेट 1990s and early 2000s, it रुझान towards सांस्कृतिक विविधता, pluralism and the चित्र of a salad कटोरी instead.
due to the extent of American संस्कृति, there हैं अनेक एकीकृत लकिन unique सोशल subcultures within the United States.
The cultural संबद्धों an व्यक्तिगत in the संयुक्त States may have commonly निर्भर on सोशल क्लास, राजनैतिक अभिविन्यास और a multitude of demographic characteristics such as धार्मिक पृष्ठभूमि, occupation और ethnic समूह membership.
Samoan ( Gagana fa'a sāmoa or Gagana sāmoa — आईपीए : ) is the language of the samoan आइलैंड्स, comprising the independent देश of समोआ and the संयुक्त States territory of अमरीकी Samoa.
it is an official language—alongside अंग्रेज़ी —in दोनो jurisdictions.
samoan, a पोलिनेशियाई language, is the first भाषा लिये सबसे of the समोआ आइलैंड्स ' जनसांख्यिकी of परिचय 246,000.
साथ अनेक Samoan लोगों जीना in अन्य देशों, the total number of speakers worldwide is अनुमानित at 370,000.
The भाषा is notable लिये the phonological मतभेद between formal and informal speech as खूब as a ceremonial रूप प्रयुक्त in samoan oratory.
A ग्लूकोज सहिष्णुता परीक्षण is a चिकित्सा test in which glucose is दिए और blood नमूने लिया afterward to determine how जल्दी it is cleared इससे the blood.
the परीक्षण is usually used to परीक्षण लिये मधुमेह, insulin प्रतिरोध, and sometimes प्रतिक्रिया hypoglycemia और acromegaly, or rarer disorders of शर्करा metabolism.
in the सबसे commonly performed संस्करण of the परीक्षण, an oral ग्लूकोज tolerance परीक्षण ( OGTT ), a standard dose of ग्लूकोज is ingested by mouth and रक्त स्तर हैं checked two घंटों बाद.
अनेक विसंगतियाँ of the GTT have महरूम devised over the years लिये various purposes, with अलग मानक doses of ग्लूकोज, अलग रूट of administration, different intervals and durations of sampling, और विभिन्न substances measured in जोड to रक्त ग्लूकोज.
`` What परिचय me '' is a song लिखा by गैरी तुषार और frances swan, पहला recorded by ऑस्ट्रेलियाई rock band चलती Pictures from उनके album Days of Innocence.
it थी the बैंड 's पहला number-one सिंगल in Australia spending छह consecutive weeks on the top ; there, it थी the second-highest selling single of 1982.
the success of the सोंग led उन्हें to America where it became a hit, reaching # 29 on the U.S. Billboard hot 100 चार्ट.
The सोंग ठहरे in the U.S. चार्ट लिये ऐसे a long time that it प्रबंधित to मेक billboards top 100 पॉप singles of 1983, at # 88, a विरल feat for a सिंगल साथ such a कम peak स्थिति.
The सोंग बना an असामान्य वापसी in 1989, peaking at # 46.
on the left a मुर्गा अंडा, the अंडा सबसे commonly eaten by इंसानो, and on the सही two quail अंडे
अंडे हैं रखी by females of अनेक different प्रजाति, including birds, reptiles, amphibians, and fish, और have महरूम eaten by mankind लिये हज़ारों of सालो.
बर्ड and reptile अंडे consist of a सुरक्षात्मक eggshell, albumen ( egg श्वेत ), and vitellus ( egg yolk ), contained भीतर विभिन्न thin झिल्लियों.
Popular चुनाव लिये egg consumption हैं मुर्गा, बतख, बटेर, roe, and caviar, लकिन the अंडा सबसे प्रायः खपत by इंसानो is the मुर्गा egg, by a wide हाशिया.
Egg yolks और whole अंडे स्टोर significant amounts of प्रोटीन और choline, और हैं widely used in cookery.
due to their protein content, the United राज्य Department of Agriculture ( यूएसडीए ) categorizes अंडे as meats within the खाना मार्गदर्शिका Pyramid.
Despite the nutritional value of अंडे, वहीँ हैं some संभावित स्वास्थ्य issues arising इससे egg quality, भंडार, और व्यक्तिगत allergies.
मुर्गियों और अन्य egg-laying creatures are widely रखा throughout the संसार, और द्रव्यमान उत्पादन of मुर्गा eggs is a वैश्विक industry.
In 2009, an अनुमानित 62.1 million metric tons of eggs यहूद produced worldwide from a कुल लेटा झुण्ड of लगभग 6.4 billion मुर्गियां.
There हैं मुद्दे of क्षेत्रीय variation in demand और अपेक्षा, as खूब as current debates concerning विधि of mass उत्पादन, with the यूरोपीय संघ 's बैन on बैटरी farming of chickens.
प्रमुख लीग सॉकर ( mls ) is a पेशेवर सॉकर लीग representing the खेल 's उच्चतम स्तर in the United States and कनाडा.
Sanctioned by the संयुक्त राज्य सॉकर Federation ( U.S. सॉकर ), the लीग is रचित of 19 teams — 16 in the U.S. and 3 in Canada.
सीज़न presently चलाएं इससे March to December, with each टोली playing 34 खेल in the regular season.
टेन टीमों compete in the postseason MLS कप playoffs culminating in the चैंपियनशिप game, the MLS कप.
प्रमुख लीग Soccer थी संस्थापित in 1993 as part of the United राज्य ' बोली to मेजबान the 1994 FIFA World Cup.
the first ऋतु took place in 1996 शुरूआत with टेन टीमों.
बजाय of ऑपरेटिंग as an association of independently owned teams, MLS is a single entity where each टोली is owned and नियंत्रित by the league 's निवेशकों.
The league 's बंद सदस्यता makes it एक of the संसार 's few सॉकर लीग not using प्रमोशन और relegation.
the legality of कैनबिस varies from देश to country.
Possession of कैनबिस is illegal in सबसे देशों और रै been चूंकि the beginning of फैली cannabis निषेध in the late 1930s.
however, अनेक countries have decriminalized the कब्ज़ा of small quantities of कैनबिस, विशेषकर in उत्तर अमेरिका, South America और Europe.
Furthermore, कब्ज़ा is legal or effectively legal in the नीदरलैंड्स, North कोरियाई और would be in the u.S. states of कोलोराडो and Washington if it were नहीं लिये संघीय विधि, which governs व्यक्तियों in all राज्य.
the medicinal use of कैनबिस is legal in a number of देशों, including कनाडा, the चेक गणतंत्र और इसराईल.
जबकि federal law in the United States bans all बिक्री और कब्ज़ा of कैनबिस, enforcement varies widely at the राज्य level और some states have स्थापित औषधीय मारिजुआना कार्यक्रम in that खण्डन संघीय law ; दो states ( कोलोराडो और वॉशिंगटन ) have repealed उनके कानून prohibiting the recreational उपयोग of cannabis and replaced उन्हें साथ a नियामक शासन, भी contrary to संघीय statute.
कुछ देशों have कानून कि हैं not as vigorously prosecuted as अन्य लकिन, अलावा from the countries that प्रस्ताव access to चिकित्सा मारिजुआना, सबसे देशों have various penalties ranging from lenient to very कठोर.
कुछ infractions are taken more seriously in कुछ देशों than अन्य in regard to the cultivation, use, कब्ज़ा or transfer of कैनबिस लिये recreational use.
a few jurisdictions have lessened दंड for कब्ज़ा of small quantities of cannabis, बनाना it दंडनीय by confiscation and a ठीक, rather than imprisonment.
कुछ क्षेत्राधिकारs/ ड्रग courts उपयोग mandatory उपचार programs for यंग or बारंबार users, साथ स्वतंत्रता इससे narcotic दवाएँ as the लक्ष्य and a few jurisdictions permit कैनबिस use लिये medicinal purposes.
वहीँ are भी changes in a more restrictive दिशा as in कनाडा.
ड्रग परीक्षण to detect cannabis हैं increasingly आम in अनेक देशों और have resulted in कारावास वाक्य and लोगों खोने उनके jobs.
however, सरल possession can carry long jail वाक्य in कुछ देशों, विशेषकर in parts of ईस्ट Asia and southeast एशिया जहाँ the बिक्री of कैनबिस may lead to a sentence of life in prison or भी execution.
in cardiovascular physiology, ejection भिन्न ( EF ) represents the आयतनी भिन्न of रक्त उत्तेजित आउट of the ventricle ( heart ) साथ each दिल ताल or cardiac cycle.
it can be applied to either the right ventricle जिससे ejects via the pulmonary वाल्व into the pulmonary परिसंचरण or the बाएँ ventricle जिससे ejects via the aortic वाल्व into the प्रणालीगत परिसंचरण.
इमेजिंग of the physiology of the mammalian दिल is the आर्ट कि allows meaningful गणितीय अभिव्यक्ति defining EF.
Noninvasive cardiac इमेजिंग रै become a worldwide यूटिलिटी enabling पढ़ाई of cardiac performance reproducibly और inexpensively.
सरलीकृत, ejection भिन्न is a mathematical उत्पाद allowed by हृदय imaging.
As a गणितीय पद, Ejection भिन्न is an एक्सटेंशन of the work of Adolph फिक in हृदय आउटपुट.
Dedicated प्रौद्योगिकी ऐसे as इकोकार्डियोग्राफी, Computed टोमोग्राफी, Magnetic Resonance Imaging और MUGA scanning have definitively अनुमत clinically प्रासंगिक mathematics regarding ischemia, Congenital दिल बीमारी and Heart Failure.
राज्य Route 14 ( sr 14 ) is a north–south state highway in the U.S. राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, largely in the Mojave मरुस्थल.
The दक्षिणी portion of the राजमार्ग is हस्ताक्षरित as the Antelope घाटी फ्रीवे.
the route connects Interstate 5, or Golden State फ्रीवे, near Santa clarita and साथ u.S. रूट 395 near Inyokern.
legislatively, the route extends दक्षिण of i-5 to राज्य Route 1 in the प्रशांत palisades क्षेत्रफल of लॉस Angeles, however the portion दक्षिण of the जंक्शन साथ i-5 रै नहीं महरूम constructed.
the southern भाग of the constructed रूट is a busy commuter freeway serving और connecting the communities of सांता clarita, palmdale और lancaster साथ the बाकी of the Greater लॉस Angeles area.
the northern portion, इससे Vincent ( south of Palmdale ) to Route 395, is legislatively named the Aerospace Highway, as the राजमार्ग serves एडवर्ड्स एयर फ़ोर्स Base, एकबार एक of the प्राथमिक लैंडिंग strips लिये NASA 's Space Shuttle.
This खण्ड is ग्रामीण, following the लकीर between the hot mojave मरुस्थल और the forming सिएरा नेवाडा पहाड़ दायरा.
Most of रूट 14 is loosely paralleled by a main लकीर of the दक्षिणी Pacific Railroad, प्रयुक्त लिये the Antelope घाटी Line of the metrolink commuter रेल प्रणाली as well as a connection between लॉस Angeles और the California सेंट्रल Valley via tehachapi pass.
linked with us 395, इस सड़क connects लॉस Angeles साथ ऐसे स्थान as मैमथ Mountain, मोनो झील, Yosemite नेशनल Park और Reno, Nevada.
Route 14 थी भाग of u.S. रूट 6 prior to truncation in 1964, जब u.S. 6 was a coast-to-coast रूट इससे Long बीच to Provincetown, मैसाचुसेट्स.
the non-freeway खण्ड of sr 14 इससे Silver महारानी सड़क north of rosamond to mojave is ज्ञात as सिएरा Highway, as is the old routing between अंतरराज्यीय 5 and चांदी Queen Road where sr 14 रै महरूम स्थानांतरित to a नए freeway संरेखण.
Portions of Route 14 remain signed साथ names associated with us 6, including Midland Trail, Theodore रूज़वेल्ट राजमार्ग and Grand Army of the गणतंत्र राजमार्ग.
This रूट is भाग of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया फ्रीवे और Expressway System.
Blindness is the condition of lacking विज़ुअल बोध due to physiological or neurological कारकों.
Various तराजू have महरूम developed to describe the extent of दृष्टि घाटा और define blindness.
कुल दृष्टिहीनता is the पूरा lack of रूप and विज़ुअल light बोध और is clinically recorded as nlp, an संक्षिप्त लिये `` no light बोध. ''
दृष्टिहीनता is frequently प्रयुक्त to describe severe विज़ुअल impairment साथ vision.
those described as having तभी लाइट बोध have no अधिक sight than the क्षमता to बताना light इससे अंधेरा और the सामान्य दिशा of a लाइट सोर्स.
to determine जिससे people may need खास सहायता क्युकी of उनके visual disabilities, विभिन्न governmental jurisdictions have प्रतिपादित अधिक जटिल परिभाषाएं referred to as legal दृष्टिहीनता.
in उत्तर अमेरिका और सबसे of Europe, विधिक दृष्टिहीनता is defined as विज़ुअल तीक्ष्णता ( vision ) of 20/200 ( 6/60 ) or कम in the better नजर with बेहतरीन सुधार संभावित.
इस अर्थात् कि a legally अँधा व्यक्तिगत would have to स्टैंड from an ऑब्जेक्ट to see it—with corrective lenses —with the वही उपाधि of clarity as a normally sighted व्यक्ति could इससे.
in अनेक क्षेत्रों, people साथ average acuity जो nonetheless have a विज़ुअल फ़ील्ड of less than 20 डिग्री ( the norm being 180 degrees ) हैं also classified as होने legally अँधा.
Approximately ten प्रतिशत of those deemed legally अँधा, by any माप, have no vision.
The बाकी have some vision, इससे light बोध अलोन to अपेक्षाकृत शुभ तीक्ष्णता.
Low दृष्टि is sometimes प्रयुक्त to describe विज़ुअल acuities इससे 20/70 to 20/200.
by the 10th Revision of the जो International सांख्यिकीय Classification of रोगों, Injuries and कल्याणकारी of मौत, low दृष्टि is defined as visual तीक्ष्णता of कम than 20/60 ( 6/18 ), but बराबर to or बेहतर than 20/200 ( 6/60 ), or सम्बन्धित विज़ुअल field घाटा to कम than 20 डिग्री, in the बेहतर नजर with best possible सुधार.
Blindness is पारिभाषित as visual तीक्ष्णता of कम than 20/400 ( 6/120 ), or corresponding visual field घाटा to less than 10 डिग्री, in the बेहतर नजर साथ बेहतरीन संभावित सुधार.
Blind लोगों with undamaged eyes may still पंजीकरण लाइट non-visually लिये the purpose of circadian entrainment to the 24-hour light/dark साईकिल.
लाइट signals for इस purpose travel through the retinohypothalamic tract और हैं नहीं affected by optic nerve damage परे जहाँ the retinohypothalamic tract exits.
Earl सीमन्स ( born दिसम्बर 18, 1970 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by his स्टेज names dmx और अंधेरा Man x, is an American rapper और कर्ता.
in 1999, DMX released his best-selling album... And Then वहीँ थी x, जिससे featured the hit सिंगल `` पार्टी up ( Up in यहाँ ) ``.
he has acted in films such as पेट, रोमियो जरूर die, निकास Wounds, पालना 2 the संगीन, और पिछला Hour.
in 2006, he starred in the reality टेलीविज़न श्रेणी, which was primarily aired on the शर्त केबल television संजाल.
in 2003, dmx published a किताब of उसके memoirs हकदार, e.a.r.l. : The Autobiography of DMX.
dmx released a mixtape the Weigh in as a prelude/promotion towards उसके album undisputed ( 2012 ).
dmx रै बेची over 30 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी, making उसे एक of the best-selling hip-hop कलाकारों of सब time.
पेशेवर प्रमाणन, व्यापार प्रमाणन, or professional नामांकन, प्रायः पुकारा simply प्रमाणन or qualification, is a नामांकन earned by a person to assure qualification to perform a जॉब or task.
Not सब certifications that उपयोग post-nominal letters हैं an स्वीकृति of शैक्षणिक उपलब्धि, or an agency नियुक्त to safeguard the पब्लिक ब्याज.
बग बनी is a funny एनिमल cartoon अक्षर, best remembered लिये उसके starring भूमिकाएँ in the Looney धुनें and merrie Melodies series of theatrical छोटी films produced by Warner Bros. दौरान the सुनहरी age of अमरीकी animation.
उसके popularity दौरान this era led to his बनने a कॉरपोरेट mascot of warner भाईs. Entertainment.
Bugs is an anthropomorphic gray हरे or rabbit जो is famous for उसके flippant, व्यक्तित्व, a सुनाया नई यॉर्क accent, उसके portrayal as a trickster, और उसके catch phrase `` Eh...
कया 's up, दस्तावेज़ ? ''
( usually कहा जबकि चबाने a गाजर ).
बग रै appeared in more films than any other कार्टून character और is the ninth सबसे portrayed फिल्मी personality in the संसार.
according to his 1990 `` जीवनी '' बग बनी : 50 Years and तभी One धूसर Hare, बग थी born on जुलाई 27, 1940 in ब्रुकलीन, New यॉर्क in a warren अंतर्गत ebbets Field, home of the Brooklyn डॉजर्स.
In वास्तविकता, he थी brought to जीवन by the animators और staff of लिओन schlesinger Productions ( बाद warner भाईs. Cartoons ) : सहित Tex एवेरी, जो निर्देशित Bugs ' जल्दी definitive short A Wild Hare ( 1940 ) ; Robert McKimson, जो created बग ' definitive अक्षर design ; और Mel blanc, जो originated the voice of बग.
the mucous झिल्लियों ( or mucosae or mucosas ; एकवचन mucosa ) are linings of ज़्यादातर endodermal उत्पत्ति, covered in epithelium, जिससे are involved in absorption और secretion.
They line कैविटी कि हैं उजागर to the external पर्यावरण and आतंरिक organs.
वे are at अनेक स्थान संलग्न साथ skin : at the नथुनों, the होठ of the मुँह, the eyelids, the कानों, the genital क्षेत्रफल, और the गुदा.
the sticky, मोटा द्रव स्रावित by the mucous झिल्लियों और ग्रंथियों is termed mucus.
the term श्लेष्मक झिल्ली refers to जहाँ वे हैं मिला in the body and नहीं प्रत्येक श्लेष्मक membrane secretes mucus.
the glans clitoridis, glans शिश्न ( सिर of the शिश्न ), along with the अंदर of the अग्रत्वचा और the clitoral हुड, are mucous झिल्लियों.
the urethra is also a श्लेष्मक झिल्ली.
the secreted mucus फंदा the pathogens in the देह, preventing any further क्रियाएँ of diseases.
A master सार्जेंट is the military rank for a वरिष्ठ non-commissioned officer in कुछ armed forces.
केक is a form of bread or bread-like food.
In its modern forms, it is typically a मीठी baked मिठाई.
In its oldest फ़ॉर्म, cakes यहूद normally fried breads or cheesecakes, and सामान्यतः था a डिस्क आकार.
determining whether a given food चाहिए be वर्गीकृत as ब्रैड, केक, or पेस्ट्री can be difficult.
आधुनिक केक, विशेषकर परत cakes, सामान्यतः contain a combination of आटा, शुगर, eggs, and butter or आयल, साथ some varieties also requiring द्रव ( typically मिल्क or जल ) और leavening एजेंटों ( such as खमीर or बेकिंग चूर्ण ).
flavorful ingredients like फल purées, nuts, सूखी or candied fruit, or extracts are often added, और numerous substitutions लिये the primary ingredients are possible.
cakes हैं often filled साथ फल preserves or dessert sauces ( जैसे pastry मलाई ), आइस्ड साथ buttercream or अन्य icings, और सजा साथ marzipan, piped सीमायें or candied फल.
Cake is प्रायः the मिठाई of choice for meals at ceremonial occasions, particularly weddings, वर्षगांठ, और जन्मदिन.
वहीँ हैं अनगिनत केक recipes ; कुछ हैं bread-like, कुछ rich and elaborate, और अनेक are centuries old.
Cake बनाना is no longer a complicated कार्यविधि ; while at one समय considerable मजदूर गई into cake making ( particularly the whisking of egg foams ), बेकिंग equipment और दिशानिर्देश have महरूम सरलीकृत so कि भी the सबसे amateur कुक may bake a केक.
tamara faye lavalley Bakker messner ( कूच 7, 1942 – जुलाई 20, 2007 ) थी an अमरीकी ईसाई सिंगर, इंजीलवादी, entrepreneur, author, बात दिखाएँ मेजबान, and television personality.
She was married इससे 1961 to 1992 to televangelist, and later convicted felon, Jim bakker.
वो co-hosted साथ him on the PTL क्लबों ( 1976–1987 ).
वो was a भागीदार in the 2004 season of the वास्तविकता दिखाएँ the surreal Life.
Cambria is a गाँव in Columbia काउंटी, विस्कॉन्सिन, United राज्य.
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 767 at the 2010 census.
it is भाग of the Madison महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल.
Public नीति is the principled मार्गदर्शिका to कार्रवाई लिया by the administrative कार्यपालिका शाखाओं of the राज्य with लिहाज़ to a क्लास of issues in a manner consistent with विधि और संस्थागत customs.
In general, the न्यास is the pertinent national और substantial संवैधानिक law और implementing विधान such as the US Federal कोड.
further substrates शामिल दोनो न्यायिक interpretations और regulations which हैं generally प्राधिकृत by legislation.
अन्य विद्वानों define it as a system of `` पाठ्यक्रम of action, नियामक उपायों, कानून, और funding priorities concerning a given टॉपिक promulgated by a governmental entity or its प्रतिनिधि. ''
Public policy is commonly समाविष्ट `` in constitutions, विधान acts, and न्यायिक निर्णय. ''
in the United राज्य, इस अवधारणा refers नहीं only to the परिणाम of policies, लकिन अधिक broadly to the decision-making and analysis of सरकारी decisions.
as an academic अनुशासन, पब्लिक नीति is studied by professors और students at पब्लिक नीति schools of प्रमुख विश्वविद्यालयों throughout the country.
The u.S. पेशेवर association of पब्लिक policy practitioners, researchers, विद्वानों, and students is the संघ for पब्लिक नीति Analysis और Management.
पाचन is the mechanical और रासायनिक विश्लेषण of खाना into smaller components that हैं अधिक easily absorbed into a रक्त stream, for उदाहरण.
पाचन is a रूप of catabolism : a विश्लेषण of विशाल खाना अणुओं to छोटी ones.
जब खाना enters the mouth, पाचन of the खाना starts by the कार्रवाई of mastication, a रूप of mechanical पाचन, and the wetting सम्पर्क of लार.
लार, a liquid secreted by the salivary ग्रंथियों, contains salivary amylase, an एंजाइम जिससे starts the पाचन of starch in the food.
बाद undergoing mastication and starch पाचन, the food will be in the form of a small, round slurry mass पुकारा a bolus.
it will then सफर down the esophagus और into the पेट by the कार्रवाई of peristalsis.
gastric रस in the पेट starts प्रोटीन पाचन.
Gastric रस मुख्यतः contains hydrochloric acid और pepsin.
as these दो रसायन may damage the पेट wall, mucus is स्रावित by the stomach, providing a slimy layer कि acts as a शील्ड विरूद्ध the damaging प्रभाव of the chemicals.
At the वही समय प्रोटीन पाचन is occurring, mechanical mixing occurs by peristalsis, जिससे हैं लहरें of muscular contractions that move साथ the stomach वॉल.
This allows the mass of खाना to further मिक्सर साथ the digestive enzymes.
After कुछ समय ( typically an घंटा or two in humans, 4–6 घंटों in कुत्तो, somewhat shorter duration in house cats ), the resulting मोटा liquid is called chyme.
When the pyloric sphincter वाल्व opens, chyme enters the duodenum जहाँ it mixes साथ digestive एंजाइमों from the pancreas, और तब passes through the small आंत, in जिससे पाचन continues.
When the chyme is fully digested, it is अवशोषित into the रक्त.
95 % of अवशोषण of nutrients occurs in the छोटी आंत.
Water and खनिज हैं reabsorbed वापस into the रक्त in the colon ( विशाल intestine ) जहाँ the ph is थोड़ा अम्लीय परिचय 5.6 ~ 6.9.
Some vitamins, ऐसे as biotin and vitamin K ( K2MK7 ) उत्पादित by जीवाणु in the कोलन हैं also अवशोषित into the blood in the कोलन.
बर्बाद material is eliminated इससे the मलाशय during शौच.
हेनरी viii ( 28 June 1491 – 28 जनवरी 1547 ) was किंग of इंग्लैण्ड from 21 अप्रैल 1509 until his death.
he थी रब, और बाद king, of Ireland, as well as continuing the नाममात्र अर्जी by the अंग्रेज़ी monarchs to the किंगडम of France.
हेनरी थी the second monarch of the ट्यूडर dynasty, succeeding his father, हेनरी सात.
besides उसके छह विवाह, हेनरी viii is known लिये his भूमिका in the separation of the गिरिजाघर of England इससे the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर.
हेनरी 's struggles साथ रोम led to the विरह of the Church of England इससे papal authority, the विच्छेद of the monasteries, and उसके अपना establishment as the Supreme सिर of the Church of England.
yet he remained a believer in core कैथोलिक theological teachings, भी after उसके excommunication from the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर.
Henry oversaw the विधिक संघ of इंग्लैण्ड and वेल्स साथ the कानून in वेल्स Acts 1535 और 1542.
in 1513, the नई किंग अलाइड with the पावन रोमन सम्राट, maximillian i, और invaded फ़्रांस in 1513 साथ a large, well-equipped army, लकिन हासिल छोटी at a considerable financial cost.
maximillian, लिये उसके भाग, used the अंग्रेज़ी invasion to his अपना ends, और इस prejudiced इंग्लैण्ड 's ability to शिकस्त the French.
This foray would prove the start of an obsession लिये Henry, जो invaded again in 1544.
इस समय, हेनरी 's forces captured the महत्वपूर्ण नगर of boulogne, but again the पावन रोमन Emperor, Charles V, समर्थित Henry तभी as long as he needed to and इंग्लैण्ड, strained by the विशाल लागत of the war, ransomed the city वापस for peace.
उसके contemporaries considered Henry in उसके prime to be an आकर्षक, educated and संपन्नता किंग, और he रै been described as `` एक of the सबसे charismatic शासकों to बैठना on the अंग्रेज़ी throne ''.
Besides सत्ताधारी साथ निरपेक्ष power, he भी engaged himself as an लेखक and composer.
His ख्वाहिश to provide इंग्लैण्ड साथ a पुरूष वारिस – जिससे stemmed partly from निजी वैनिटी और partly because he believed a बेटी होता be असमर्थ to consolidate the Tudor dynasty and the नाजुक peace that existed following the Wars of the गुलाब – led to the two बाते for which हेनरी is most remembered : his six विवाह and the अंग्रेज़ी reformation.
Henry became morbidly मोटे and his health suffered, contributing to his death in 1547.
he is अक्सर characterised in उसके later जीवन as a lustful, egotistical, harsh, and असुरक्षित king.
bongos ( Spanish : bongó ) हैं an afro-cuban percussion यंत्र.
The ड्रम are of अलग आकार : the larger drum is पुकारा in स्पेनी the hembra ( मादा ) और the smaller the मर्दाना ( male ).
They हैं membranophones, or instruments कि बनाएँ ध्वनि by a vibration of a stretched झिल्ली.
Different धार्मिक groups include अलग किताबे in their biblical canons, in varying orders, और sometimes divide or combine किताबे, or incorporate additional material into canonical books.
ईसाई bibles range from the sixty-six किताबे of the प्रोटोस्टेंट canon to the eighty-one किताबे of the Ethiopian परंपरागत tewahedo गिरिजाघर canon.
The यहूदी बाइबल, or tanakh, contains twenty-four books विभाजित into तीन भाग ; the पाँच books of the Torah ( `` teaching '' or `` law '' ), the nevi'im ( `` prophets '' ), और the Ketuvim ( `` writings '' ).
the पहला भाग of ईसाई Bibles is the बूढ़ा वसीयत, जिससे contains, at minimum, the twenty-four किताबे of the यहूदी बाइबल विभाजित into thirty-nine किताबे और ordered differently from the यहूदी बाइबल.
the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर और Eastern ईसाई churches भी थाम certain deuterocanonical books and passages to be भाग of the Old Testament canon.
the दूसरी part is the New Testament, containing twenty-seven books ; the चार canonical gospels, अधिनियमों of the रसूलों, twenty-one epistles or अक्षर और the Book of रहस्योद्घाटन.
The पूर्वी परंपरागत, प्राच्य Orthodox और Eastern कैथोलिक चर्च may have minor मतभेद in उनके सूचियाँ of स्वीकृत किताबे.
the सूची given here लिये these churches is the सबसे समावेशी : if at least one Eastern गिरिजाघर स्वीकृत the किताब it is शामिल यहाँ.
The नेशनल ध्वज of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका, often बस referred to as the American flag, consists of तेरह equal आड़ा धारियाँ of रेड ( शीर्ष और नीचे ) प्रत्यावर्ती साथ white, with a blue rectangle in the कैण्टन ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing पचास small, white, five-pointed stars arranged in नौ ऑफसेट आड़ा rows of छह stars ( top and नीचे ) alternating साथ पंक्ति of पाँच सितारों.
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the संयुक्त States of अमेरिका and the 13 धारियाँ represent the तेरह अंग्रेजों colonies that घोषित स्वतंत्रता इससे the किंगडम of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और became the पहला राज्य in the संघ.
nicknames लिये the ध्वज शामिल the `` सितारों and धारियाँ '', `` Old महिमा ``, और `` The star-spangled ध्वज. ''
dred Scott v. sandford,, भी known as the Dred Scott निर्णय, was a landmark decision by the U.S. Supreme Court.
it बना दो main rulings.
The first सत्ताधारी was that African-Americans यहूद not नागरिकों, and इसलिए had no standing to मुकदमा in संघीय court.
the दूसरी सत्ताधारी थी कि the federal government था no power to regulate slavery in कोई territory acquired subsequent to the creation of the संयुक्त राज्य.
Given the पहला सत्ताधारी, सबसे विद्वानों and अनेक contemporary राजनैतिक आंकड़े ( सहित the नेतृत्व of the then-new रिपब्लिकन Party ) considered कि the दूसरी सत्ताधारी was नहीं binding यही, but mere कहावत.
The युक्तिसंगत of the परम् Court regarding the jurisdictional सत्ताधारी implied कि people of African descent ( दोनो slave और फ़्री ) यहूद नहीं सुरक्षित by the Constitution and were नहीं u.S. नागरिकों.
Since passage of the 14th amendment to the u.S. संविधान, दोनो rulings are superseded और no longer valid precedent.
nonetheless, the मामला retains historical significance as it is widely regarded as the worst decision ever बना by the परम् अदालत.
The राय of the court, written by Chief इंसाफ रोजर B. taney, stirred debate.
The निर्णय थी 7–2, और प्रत्येक इंसाफ besides taney wrote a पृथक concurrence or dissent.
For the पहला समय चूंकि marbury v. Madison, the अदालत आयोजित an अधिनियम of कॉंग्रेस to be unconstitutional.
Dred Scott, an African-American slave, था asked a United राज्य सर्किट Court to award him उसके स्वतंत्रता क्युकी he and उसके निपुण had resided in a राज्य ( इलिनोइस ) and a territory ( Wisconsin Territory ) जहाँ गुलामी था महरूम बैन.
Chief इंसाफ Roger taney, writing लिये the अदालत, आयोजित कि स्कॉट, as a व्यक्ति of अफ़्रीकी ancestry, थी not a citizen of the संयुक्त राज्य and इसलिए had no right to sue in federal अदालत.
इस पकड़कर was contrary to the अभ्यास of numerous राज्य at the समय, विशेषकर फ़्री राज्य, जहाँ फ़्री अश्वेतों किया in फैक्ट enjoy the rights of citizens, such as the right to vote and hold public office.
in कया is sometimes माना mere obiter कहावत, the अदालत गई on to थाम कि Congress था no प्राधिकार to prohibit गुलामी in संघीय territories because slaves हैं निजी property और the पांचवां amendment to the संविधान protects प्रॉपर्टी owners विरूद्ध deprivation of उनके प्रॉपर्टी without due प्रक्रम of विधि.
in reaching इस decision, Taney था hoped to settle the growing controversy surrounding slavery in the United राज्य, लकिन it था the विपरीत प्रभाव.
the निर्णय थी fiercely debated आरपार the country, as शायद बेहतरीन सरंचनाओं by the Lincoln–Douglas debates of 1858.
अब्राहम Lincoln, the second-ever रिपब्लिकन nominee लिये अध्यक्ष, थी समर्थ to जीत the अध्यक्षीय चुनाव in 1860 ; the stopping of the further expansion of गुलामी थी a कुंजी रिपब्लिकन पार्टी यों.
the decision निभाई an महत्वपूर्ण role in the timing of राज्य secession और the सिविल War, although it is चरम to कह the निर्णय `` caused '' the युद्ध.
The decision is acknowledged लिये the influential भूमिका it played in altering the नेशनल political लैंडस्केप : it is credited with शुभारंभ Abraham lincoln’s national राजनैतिक करियर और ultimately allowing for उसके election.
हालांकि the परम् Court रै never explicitly overruled the dred स्कॉट मामला, the अदालत stated in the Slaughter-House Cases that at least एक part of it था already been overruled by the Fourteenth amendment in 1868, which begins by stating, `` सब persons born or देशीयकृत in the United राज्य, और subject to the क्षेत्राधिकार thereof, हैं नागरिकों of the संयुक्त States और of the State wherein they reside. ''
To जिससे the Court noted:
the पहला अवलोकन we have to make on इस clause is, that it puts at rest दोनो the सवाल which we stated to have महरूम the विषय of मतभेद of राय.
It declares that व्यक्तियों may be citizens of the संयुक्त States बगैर regard to उनके नागरिकता of a particular राज्य, और it overturns the dred Scott निर्णय by making all व्यक्तियों born भीतर the संयुक्त राज्य और subject to its क्षेत्राधिकार citizens of the United States.
वहीँ are दर्जनों of neighborhoods in कोलंबस, Ohio.
कुछ हैं मुश्किल to define, as वे encompass विशाल areas developed at different times—often साथ sub-neighborhoods within them.
सीमायें can also change based on लोकप्रिय समझना of the area, as well as the whims of the residents.
इस आलेख uses आंकड़ा इससे the Datasourcecolumbus Web साईट, Spotcrime.com, hellocolumbus.com, as well as the विभिन्न कोलंबस Area आयोग to define the विभिन्न areas.
excerpts and किनारा सूचना are drawn सीधे इससे the प्रमुख articles.
A जीवविज्ञानी is a वैज्ञानिक जो अध्ययन जीना जीवों और उनके relationship to their environment.
biologists शामिल in basic शोध attempt to discover underlying mechanisms कि govern कैसा जीवों कार्य.
biologists involved in applied शोध attempt to develop or improve medical, औद्योगिक or agricultural प्रक्रियाओं.
Martinus Willem beijerinck, a वनस्पतिशास्त्री और microbiologist
Base कूद इससे a चट्टान in a wingsuit.
BASE jumping, also sometimes लिखा as B.A.S.E. कूद, is an कार्यकलाप जहाँ भागीदार जम्प इससे fixed objects और उपयोग a parachute to ब्रेक their fall.
`` BASE '' is an acronym कि स्टैंड लिये चार श्रेणी of fixed वस्तुएँ from which one can जम्प : इमारतें, एन्टेना, spans ( पुलों ), और धरती ( cliffs ).
The British shorthair is a domesticated cat जिनकी features make it a लोकप्रिय breed in बिल्ली shows.
It रै महरूम the सबसे लोकप्रिय breed of बिल्ली registered by the uk 's शासी परिषद of the बिल्ली Fancy ( GCCF ) चूंकि 2001, when it overtook the Persian नस्ल.
the यूएसए Basketball मेन 's Senior National Team, commonly ज्ञात as the United राज्य men 's national basketball team, represents the United राज्य of America in अंतरराष्ट्रीय मेन 's बास्केट.
The यूएसए is the सबसे कामयाब team in अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रतियोगिता, जीतना medals in all seventeen ओलम्पिक tournaments it has डाला, coming दूर साथ fourteen golds.
Two of इसके सुनहरा medal-winning squads यहूद inducted to the naismith Memorial बास्केट हॉल of Fame as teams in अगस्त 2010—the 1960 टोली, जिससे प्रदर्शित six हॉल of Famers ( 4 players, 2 कोच ), और the 1992 `` सपना Team '', featuring 14 हॉल of famers ( 11 खिलाड़ी, 3 कोच ).
the संयुक्त राज्य is currently ranked पहला in the fiba संसार Rankings.
Traditionally रचित of amateur खिलाड़ी, a 1989 नियम बदलें by fiba अनुमत यूएसए बास्केट to फ़ील्ड टीमों with professional खिलाड़ी.
the पहला ऐसे टोली, known as the `` सपना टोली '', जीती the सुनहरा पदक at the 1992 Summer ओलंपिक in बार्सिलोना, स्पेन, playing in the फाइनल विरूद्ध Croatia.
साथ the परिचय of professionals, the टोली थी able to spark a दूसरी चलाएं of dominance बाद capturing only a कांस्य medal in 1988.
A team of पेशेवर खिलाड़ी competed at the 1994 fiba संसार चैंपियनशिप, finishing पहला.
in 1996, 2000, 2008, और 2012 the यूएसए again captured gold medals.
Facing increased competition, the यूएसए failed to win a पदक at the 2002 FIBA World Championship, finishing sixth.
the 2004 Summer ओलम्पिक टोली खोया तीन games on its way to a कांस्य medal, a record that represented more नुकसान in a सिंगल साल than the country 's ओलम्पिक टीमों had suffered in सब previous olympiads संयुक्त.
संकल्पित to put an समाप्त to these failures, USA बास्केट initiated a long-term प्रोजेक्ट aimed at creating बेहतर, अधिक cohesive teams.
The यूएसए won इसके पहला सात games at the 2006 fiba World Championship in जापानी before losing against Greece in the semi-finals, समाप्ति the प्रतियोगिता साथ the bronze पदक.
The यूएसए won सुनहरा दो years बाद, though, at the 2008 गर्मियाँ Olympics साथ a प्रबल performance.
This कामयाबी was followed up at the 2010 FIBA संसार चैंपियनशिप, where despite fielding a रोस्टर featuring no players इससे the 2008 ओलम्पिक टोली, the यूएसए किया not खोना a single खेल en रूट to defeating मेजबान Turkey लिये the सुनहरा medal.
the यूएसए continued इस streak of दबदबा by going undefeated और capturing सुनहरा once अधिक at the 2012 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक.
The Steelers Super Bowl xl रिंग
Joe Theismann 's Super कटोरी रिंग ( सही )
The सुपर कटोरी ring is an पुरस्कार in the National Football League given to the winners of the league 's सालाना संसार चैंपियनशिप game, the Super कटोरी.
चूंकि only one विंस लोम्बार्डी Trophy is awarded to the team ( ownership ) itself, the सुपर कटोरी रिंग offers a collectible memento लिये the वास्तविक खिलाड़ी और टोली सदस्यों to रखना for themselves to symbolize the विजय.
चित्र प्रर्दशित the छह सबसे common speleothems साथ लेबल्स.
to दृश्य labels.
the डायन 's Finger in the carlsbad Caverns
A stalagmite ( or ; from the यूनानी σταλαγμίτης - stalagmitês, from σταλαγμίας - stalagmias, `` छोड़ने, trickling '' ) is a प्रकार of speleothem कि उदय इससे the मंजिल of a चूना cave due to the टपकता of mineralized समाधान और the deposition of कैल्सियम carbonate.
इस stalagmite गठन occurs तभी अंतर्गत certain ph शर्तें भीतर the underground cavern.
the सम्बन्धित गठन on the ceiling of a गुफा is ज्ञात as a stalactite.
if ये formations grow साथ, the result is ज्ञात as a कालम.
the हॉल of दिग्गज in the carlsbad Caverns
stalagmites चाहिए सामान्यतः नहीं be छुआ, since the चट्टान buildup is formed by खनिज precipitating out of the जल समाधान onto the बूढ़ा सतह ; स्किन oils can alter the सतह where the खनिज जल होगा चिपकी, thus affecting the growth of the गठन.
oils and मैल from इंसान सम्पर्क can also stain the formation and change इसके रंग permanently.
समान structures can भी रूप in लावा tubes, संबद्ध with कुछ types of lavacicles, although the यांत्रिकी of गठन is very different.
stalactites and stalagmites can भी form on कंक्रीट ceilings और floors, हालांकि वे रूप much अधिक rapidly there than in the प्राकृतिक गुफा पर्यावरण.
the largest stalagmite in the संसार is high and is located in the गुफा of cueva Martin infierno, क्यूबा.
in the Zagros kyu of दक्षिण Iran, लगभग इससे the ancient city of bishapur, in the Shapur cave on the fourth of पाँच terraces stands the 3rd सदी CE statue of shapur I, second शासक of the सासानी साम्राज्य.
The statue, carved from one stalagmite, is nearly high.
कैसा i Met अपना Mother is an अमरीकी sitcom that premiered on CBS on September 19, 2005.
the दिखाएँ was निर्मित by क्रेग थामस और कार्टर Bays.
कैसा I Met Your माँ is framed by the साल 2030, when Ted Mosby ( voiced by bob saget ) gathers his daughter ( lyndsy Fonseca ) और son ( दाउद henrie ) to बताना them the story of how he मिले their माँ.
we फ्लैशबैक to where it begins in 2005 साथ टेड Mosby ( जोश Radnor ) as a सिंगल, 27-year-old architect living with his दो बेहतरीन मित्रों इससे wesleyan University, मार्शल eriksen ( जेसन सेगल ), a law छात्र, और लिली एल्ड्रिन ( Alyson Hannigan ), a kindergarten teacher, who have महरूम dating लिये लगभग nine years जब Marshall proposes.
Their engagement कल्याणकारी टेड to सोचो परिचय ढूंढना his own आत्मा mate, much to the disgust of his dost Barney stinson ( neil Patrick Harris ), a womanizer साथ an unnamed कॉरपोरेट जॉब.
And यूँ, टेड begins his ढूंढें for उसके perfect mate, और meets रोबिन Scherbatsky ( कोबी स्मल्डर्स ), जिसको he also befriends.
the 100th एपीसोड of कैसा I मिले Your Mother aired on जनवरी 11, 2010.
On दिसम्बर 21, 2012, the series थी नवीनीकृत लिये a नवीं ऋतु.
On जनवरी 30, 2013, it थी घोषित that Season 9 will be its final ऋतु.
Gringo (,, ) is a slang स्पेनी और पुर्तगाली शब्द प्रयुक्त in Ibero-America, to denote foreigners, प्रायः from the संयुक्त States.
the term can be लागू to किसी who is दरअसल a foreigner, or it can denote a strong association or assimilation into विदेशी ( particularly us ) समाज और संस्कृति.
in स्पेनी it does नहीं have a ऋणात्मक connotation.
Roger axtell, a सफर तहज़ीब विशेषज्ञ, टीप that `` [ t ] he word gringo is नहीं necessarily a ख़राब शब्द.
it is slang but is अपमानजनक तभी in its उपयोग and कॉन्टेक्स्ट. ''
the शब्द थी प्रयुक्त in Spain long before it crossed the अटलांटिक to denote विदेशी, non-native अध्यक्षों of Spanish.
The great श्वेत shark, Carcharodon carcharias, also ज्ञात as the great श्वेत, श्वेत सूचक, white शार्क, or श्वेत मौत, is a प्रजाति of विशाल lamniform शार्क which can be मिला in the तटीय सतह waters of all the प्रमुख oceans.
the ग्रेट white शार्क is मुख्यतः ज्ञात for its आकार, with the largest individuals ज्ञात to have approached or exceeded in लंबाई, और in वज़न.
इस शार्क पहुँच its maturity around 15 years of age और can have a life स्पैन of over 30 सालो.
The ग्रेट white shark is arguably the संसार 's largest ज्ञात extant macropredatory fish, और is एक of the प्राथमिक परभक्षी of marine स्तनधारियों.
It is also ज्ञात to शिकार upon a किस्में of अन्य समुद्री पशु, including fish and seabirds.
it is the तभी known surviving species of इसके genus carcharodon, and is क्रमित first in having the सबसे attacks on इंसानो.
the आईयूसीएन सूची the great श्वेत shark as a vulnerable प्रजाति, जबकि it is included in Appendix ii of cites.
The bestselling novel Jaws by पीटर Benchley और the subsequent ब्लॉकबस्टर film by स्टीवन स्पिलबर्ग चित्रित the great श्वेत shark as a `` ferocious man eater ``.
in वास्तविकता, humans are नहीं the पसन्दीदा शिकार of the ग्रेट श्वेत शार्क.
the संयुक्त States Armed शक्तियां are the military शक्तियां of the United राज्य of अमेरिका.
They consist of the फौज, नेवी, समुद्री Corps, Air फ़ोर्स, and Coast गार्ड.
The U.S. रै a strong परंपरा of civilian control of the military.
The अध्यक्ष is the सैन्य 's overall head, और helps रूप सैन्य नीति साथ the u.S. Department of Defense ( DoD ), a संघीय कार्यपालिका विभाग, एक्टिंग as the principal organ by जिससे सैन्य policy is carried आउट.
The DoD is headed by the Secretary of रक्षा, who is a civilian and Cabinet सदस्य.
The Defense Secretary is second in the military 's कड़ी of कमांड, just नीचे the अध्यक्ष, and serves as the प्रिंसिपल सहायक to the President in all dod-related matters.
to निर्देशांक सैन्य कार्रवाई साथ diplomacy, the President रै an सलाहकार National Security परिषद headed by a National सुरक्षा सलाहकार.
दोनो the अध्यक्ष and Secretary of रक्षा are advised by a seven-member संयुक्त Chiefs of स्टाफ, which includes the सिर of प्रत्येक of the रक्षा विभाग 's सेवा शाखाओं as well as the मुख्य of the नेशनल गार्ड Bureau.
नेतृत्व is provided by the अध्यक्ष of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the वाइस अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त chiefs of स्टाफ.
The कमांडेंट of the Coast गार्ड is नहीं a सदस्य of the संयुक्त chiefs of Staff.
सब of the branches कार्य together दौरान परिचालन और संयुक्त मिशन, under the Unified combatant कमांड, अंतर्गत the प्राधिकार of the सचिव of रक्षा with the exception of the coast Guard.
The coast गार्ड जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the प्रशासन of the विभाग of मातृभूमि Security और receives its operational आदेश इससे the सचिव of Homeland Security.
the Coast Guard may be transferred to the विभाग of the नेवी by the अध्यक्ष or Congress दौरान a time of युद्ध.
All five armed services हैं among the seven uniformed services of the United States ; the others हैं the u.S. पब्लिक Health Service commissioned corps और the National Oceanic and वायुमंडलीय Administration commissioned Corps.
From the time of its inception, the military played a निर्णायक भूमिका in the history of the संयुक्त States.
a भाव of नेशनल unity and identity was forged as a परिणाम of विजय in the First Barbary War and the Second Barbary War.
भी so, the Founders were संदिग्ध of a permanent military फ़ोर्स और नहीं जबतक the outbreak of संसार युद्ध II किया a विशाल खड़ा फौज become officially established.
The National Security अधिनियम of 1947, अपनाया following संसार युद्ध II और during the ठंडा युद्ध 's onset, created the आधुनिक U.S. सैन्य framework ; the Act मिलाया previously cabinet-level विभाग of युद्ध और the विभाग of the Navy into the नेशनल सैन्य Establishment ( renamed the विभाग of रक्षा in 1949 ), headed by the सचिव of रक्षा ; और created the विभाग of the एयर Force और National Security Council.
the u.S. सैन्य is one of the largest militaries in terms of क्रमांक of कर्मियों.
it draws its manpower इससे a विशाल pool of सशुल्क स्वयंसेवक ; हालांकि conscription रै been प्रयुक्त in the पास्ट in विभिन्न टाइम्स of दोनो युद्ध और सलाम, it रै नहीं been प्रयुक्त चूंकि 1972.
as of 2013, the u.S. spends about $ 554.2 billion annually to fund इसके सैन्य शक्तियां, और appropriates लगभग $ 88.5 अरब to निधि विदेशी आकस्मिकता Operations.
put साथ, the u.S. constitutes roughly 43 प्रतिशत of the world 's सैन्य expenditures.
the U.S. हथियारबंद शक्तियां as a whole possess large quantities of उन्नत और powerful उपकरण, साथ साथ फैली अवस्थिति of forces around the संसार, giving उन्हें significant सामर्थ्य in दोनो defense and power प्रक्षेप.
स्वतंत्रता of वाक is the राजनैतिक right to communicate one 's राय और ideas using one 's body and प्रॉपर्टी to anyone who is willing to receive them.
The पद स्वतंत्रता of अभिव्यक्ति is sometimes used synonymously, लकिन includes कोई act of seeking, receiving and imparting सूचना or विचार, regardless of the मीडियम प्रयुक्त.
In अभ्यास, the right to स्वतंत्रता of speech is नहीं निरपेक्ष in any country and the सही is commonly विषय to limitations, as साथ मानहानि, बदनामी, obscenity, राजद्रोह ( सहित, लिये उदाहरण inciting जातीय द्वेष ), कापीराइट उल्लंघन, रहस्योद्घाटन of information that is वर्गीकृत or वरना.
The right to freedom of expression is पहचाना as a human सही अंतर्गत आलेख 19 of the Universal घोषणा of इंसान Rights और recognized in international इंसान अधिकारों law in the International वचन on Civil and राजनैतिक अधिकारों ( iccpr ).
आलेख 19 of the iccpr राज्य कि `` [ e ] veryone shall have the सही to hold राय बगैर हस्तक्षेप '' और `` everyone shall have the सही to freedom of अभिव्यक्ति ; इस right shall शामिल स्वतंत्रता to seek, प्राप्त और impart सूचना और ideas of all kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in लिखने or in print, in the रूप of art, or through any अन्य media of उसके चुनाव ''.
आलेख 19 goes on to कह that the कसरत of ये rights carries `` special कर्तव्य and responsibilities `` and may `` therefore be subject to निश्चित restrictions '' when जरुरी `` [ f ] or आदर of the अधिकारों or reputation of others '' or `` [ f ] or the protection of national security or of पब्लिक order ( order पब्लिक ), or of पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य or नैतिकता ''.
स्वतंत्रता of वाक may be legally curtailed in some religious विधिक प्रणालियों और in धर्मनिरपेक्ष jurisdictions जहाँ it is मिला to cause धार्मिक offense, such as the British Racial and Religious द्वेष अधिनियम 2006.
the बिग Bang Theory लोगो.
The बिग बंग सिद्धान्त is an American कॉमेडी television श्रेणी निर्मित और executive उत्पादित by Chuck lorre और विधेयक prady.
जैसे the name of the श्रेणी itself, साथ the exception of the पहला episode— '' Pilot '' —episode शीर्षक of the Big बंग Theory सदा start with `` the '' और resemble the नाम of a वैज्ञानिक principle, theory or experiment, whimsically referencing a प्लाट point or quirk.
, 133 एपीसोड have aired.
the बिग बंग सिद्धान्त रै महरूम नवीनीकृत for a seventh ऋतु.
Dwight दाउद `` Ike '' आइज़नहावर ( सुनाया, ; October 14, 1890 – कूच 28, 1969 ) थी the 34th अध्यक्ष of the United States इससे 1953 until 1961.
he had previously महरूम a five-star general in the संयुक्त States फौज दौरान संसार युद्ध ii and served as परम् कमांडर of the Allied Forces in यूरोपीय ; he था responsibility for planning और supervising the invasion of North अफ़्रीकी in आपरेशन मशाल in 1942–43 and the कामयाब invasion of France और Germany in 1944–45 from the Western Front.
In 1951, he became the first परम् commander of NATO.
आइज़नहावर थी of पेन्सिलवेनिया डच ancestry और थी reared in a large परिवार in कान्सास by अभिभावक साथ a robust कार्य ethic और धार्मिक पृष्ठभूमि.
As one of छह sons, he थी conditioned by a प्रतिस्पर्धी माहौल जिससे instilled self-reliance.
he attended और ग्रैजुएट इससे वेस्ट पाइंट and बाद married and था two बेटे.
After संसार युद्ध II, आइज़नहावर served as फौज मुख्य of स्टाफ अंतर्गत अध्यक्ष हैरी S. ट्रूमैन, then assumed the पोस्ट of President at Columbia विश्वविद्यालयों.
Eisenhower डाला the 1952 अध्यक्षीय रेस as a Republican to counter the non-interventionism of सीनेटर Robert A. Taft और to crusade against `` Communism, Korea and भ्रष्टाचार ''.
He won by a भूस्खलन, defeating डेमोक्रेट adlai stevenson and ending दो दशकों of the New सौदे Coalition.
In the पहला year of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी, आइज़नहावर अपदस्थ the leader of इरान in the 1953 ईरानी तख्तापलट d'état and प्रयुक्त nuclear खतरे to conclude the कोरियाई युद्ध with China.
उसके नई Look नीति of nuclear deterrence gave प्रधानता to inexpensive नाभिकीय हथियार while reducing the funding for conventional सैन्य forces ; the लक्ष्य थी to रखना दबाव on the सोवियत Union and reduce federal deficits.
In 1954, आइज़नहावर first articulated the domino सिद्धान्त in his वर्णन of the threat प्रस्तुत by the spread of communism.
The Congress agreed to उसके request in 1955 लिये the formosa Resolution, which सक्रिय उसे to prevent चाइनीज कम्युनिस्ट aggression against Chinese nationalists और स्थापित the u.S. नीति of defending ताईवान.
जब the Soviets शुभारम्भ Sputnik in 1957, he था to खेल catch-up in the स्पेस race.
आइज़नहावर मजबूर Israel, the UK, और फ़्रांस to समाप्त उनके आक्रमण of Egypt दौरान the स्वेज संकट of 1956.
In 1958, he sent 15,000 US सैनिकों to लेबनान to prevent the pro-western सरकारी इससे falling to a Nasser -inspired क्रान्ति.
Near the end of his term, उसके efforts to set up a समिट बैठक with the soviets collapsed क्युकी of the u-2 घटना.
On the domestic सामने, he covertly opposed जोसेफ मैकार्थी and contributed to the समाप्त of McCarthyism by खुलकर invoking the modern विस्तारित version of कार्यपालिका विशेषाधिकार.
He otherwise left सबसे राजनैतिक कार्यकलाप to his वाइस अध्यक्ष, Richard निक्सन.
he थी a मॉडरेट रूढ़िवादी who जारी नई सौदे एजेंसियों और विस्तारित Social सुरक्षा.
Among उसके enduring नवप्रवर्तनों, he शुभारम्भ the Interstate राजमार्ग प्रणाली ; the रक्षा उन्नत शोध प्रोजेक्ट एजेंसी ( DARPA ), जिससे led to the अंतरजाल, among अनेक invaluable outputs ; the National aeronautics और स्पेस Administration ( NASA ), ड्राइविंग शांतिपूर्ण डिस्कवरी in space ; the स्थापना of strong विज्ञान शिक्षा via the नेशनल रक्षा शिक्षा Act ; और प्रोत्साहित peaceful use of नाभिकीय power via amendments to the परमाणु Energy Act.
In सोशल नीति, he sent federal सैनिकों to छोटी चट्टान, अरकंसास, लिये the पहला समय चूंकि पुनर्निर्माण to enforce संघीय अदालत orders to desegregate पब्लिक schools.
he also हस्ताक्षरित सिविल rights legislation in 1957 and 1960 to protect the सही to vote.
He implemented desegregation of the armed forces in two सालो और बना पाँच नियुक्ति to the Supreme अदालत.
He was the पहला term-limited अध्यक्ष in accordance साथ the 22nd amendment.
Eisenhower 's दो शर्तें were शांतिपूर्ण ones for the सबसे भाग और देखी considerable आर्थिक समृद्धि मगर for a शार्प मंदी in 1958–59.
आइज़नहावर is often क्रमित अत्यधिक among the U.S. Presidents.
एयर Force एक is the official एयर ट्रैफ़िक कंट्रोल कॉल चिह्न of a United राज्य एयर Force aircraft carrying the President of the United राज्य.
in common parlance the पद refers to those Air फ़ोर्स वायुयान specifically designed, निर्मित, and प्रयुक्त लिये the purpose of transporting the अध्यक्ष.
the Presidential वायुयान is a prominent symbol of the American प्रेसिडेंसी and इसके power.
The idea of designating विशिष्ट सैन्य वायुयान to transport the अध्यक्ष arose in 1943, जब officials of the United राज्य फौज एयर शक्तियां – the पूर्ववर्ती to the u.S. Air फ़ोर्स – became concerned with relying on वाणिज्यिक airlines to हस्तांतरण the President.
a c-87 Liberator Express थी reconfigured लिये use as a अध्यक्षीय हस्तांतरण ; however, it was अस्वीकृत by the रहस्य सेवा amid concerns over the aircraft 's सुरक्षा रिकार्ड.
a c-54 skymaster थी तब परिवर्तित for अध्यक्षीय उपयोग ; इस वायुयान, उतावले the पवित्र गाय, transported अध्यक्ष Franklin D. रूज़वेल्ट to the Yalta Conference in फ़रवरी 1945, and was subsequently प्रयुक्त लिये another two years by अध्यक्ष Harry S. Truman.
The `` एयर Force एक '' call चिह्न थी निर्मित बाद a 1953 घटना during which a flight carrying अध्यक्ष Dwight D. आइज़नहावर डाला the वही airspace as a वाणिज्यिक एयरलाइन उड़ान using the वही कॉल चिह्न.
अनेक aircraft have been प्रयुक्त as एयर Force One चूंकि the creation of the अध्यक्षीय fleet, including दो Boeing 707s introduced in the 1960s और 1970s, respectively ; चूंकि 1990, the presidential बेड़े रै consisted of two Boeing VC-25As – specifically विन्यस्त, अत्यधिक customized बोइंग 747-200B श्रेणी aircraft.
the एयर फ़ोर्स is looking into replacing the two vc-25 aircraft साथ तीन replacement वायुयान beginning in 2017.
a विवाह वर्षगांठ is the anniversary of the तिथि a विवाह took प्लेस.
परंपरागत names मौजूद लिये most of उन्हें : लिये उदाहरण, 50 years of विवाह is पुकारा a `` सुनहरी विवाह वर्षगांठ '' or बस a `` सुनहरी वर्षगांठ ''.
a स्कैनर with duplexing स्वचालित Document Feeder.
In multifunction or all-in-one मुद्रक, फैक्स machines, photocopiers और scanners, an स्वचालित दस्तावेज़ feeder or adf is a feature जिससे takes अनेक पृष्ठों और फ़ीड्स the paper one पेज at a time into a scanner or copier, allowing the उपयोक्ता to स्कैन, और thereby नक़ल, छपाई, or फैक्स, multiple-page documents without having to हस्तचालित बदलें each पेज.
सबसे copiers allow स्कैनिंग on the फ्लैटबेड or platen ( the `` कांच '' ) or through a दस्तावेज़ फीडर.
the vast majority of fax मशीने have an ADF, allowing the unattended sending of multi-page faxes.
due to the ubiquity of ADF in फैक्स मशीने, कुछ फैक्स यंत्र स्वामी उपयोग the fax machine as a स्कैनर, faxing multi-page दस्तावेज़ to themselves.
दस्तावेज़ feeders हैं वर्णित by गति, in pages प्रति मिनट or ppm, और क्षमता, usually in a दायरा इससे 10 चादरें to 200.
वहीँ are two kinds of document feeders सक्षम of two-sided ( duplex ) scanning : a reversing स्वचालित document feeder or RADF scans one side of a पेज, तब flips it और scans the other पक्ष.
a duplexing automatic दस्तावेज़ फीडर or dadf scans दोनो sides in एक pass.
The लाभ of the dadf is तेज़ गति लिये two-sided मूल.
radfs और dadfs are रेटेड in बिंब प्रति मिनट ( ipm ), the number of पहलू वे can स्कैन प्रत्येक मिनट.
मेला पार्क is a recreational and शैक्षणिक complex located in डलास, टेक्सास ( USA ).
the जटिल is registered as a डलास लैंडमार्क, National Historic लैंडमार्क और is home to नौ संग्रहालय, six performance facilities, a लैगून, and the largest फेरिस व्हील in उत्तर अमेरिका.
अनेक of the इमारतें on the जटिल यहूद constructed for the टेक्सास centennial Exposition in 1936 which खींचा over six million विज़िटर.
सबसे of the इमारतें निर्मित लिये the exposition स्टिल जीवित and it is recognized as a significant example of आर्ट डेको architecture.
मेला Park रै महरूम designated a ग्रेट प्लेस in America by the American नियोजन Association.
The American नियोजन Association ( apa ) “is an स्वतंत्र, not-for-profit educational संगठन that provides leadership in the development of vital communities.”
the Great स्थान in American program helps to celebrate क्षेत्रों साथ “exemplary अक्षर, quality, and planning.”
होने designated as a Great Place in अमेरिका, Fair पार्क थी एक of तभी टेन cities चुनी in 2011.
सैन Jose ( ; स्पेनी : st. जोसेफ ) is the third-largest नगर in कैलिफ़ोर्निया, the tenth-largest in the u.S., और the county seat of सांता क्लारा काउंटी जिससे is स्तिथ at the southern end of सैन Francisco खाड़ी.
सैन जोस is the largest नगर भीतर सिलिकॉन घाटी, जिससे is a प्रमुख घटक of the वृहद San फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी Area, a प्रदेश of 8.4 लाख लोगों and the fifth largest महानगर क्षेत्रफल ( CSA ) in the संयुक्त राज्य.
it is the largest नगर in Northern कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
सैन जोस was संस्थापित on November 29, 1777, as El Pueblo de सैन जोस de Guadalupe, the पहला civilian कस्बा in the Spanish colony of नुएवा कैलिफ़ोर्निया, जिससे later became alta कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
The city परोसा as a farming जातियाँ to support स्पेनी military installations at San Francisco और Monterey.
जब कैलिफ़ोर्निया gained statehood in 1850, सैन जोस परोसा as इसके पहला पूंजी.
After more than 150 सालो as a छोटी खेती नगर, San Jose और the surrounding Santa Clara घाटी became the पिछला ( और largest ) contiguous क्षेत्रफल of undeveloped land surrounding the San फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी.
San जोस experienced increased demand लिये housing इससे soldiers और दिग्गजों returning from संसार War ii.
सैन जोस then जारी its aggressive विस्तार दौरान the 1950s और 1960s by annexing more जमीन area.
the रैपिड विकास of the high-technology और electronics industries further त्वरित the परिवर्तन इससे an agricultural center, to an urbanized महानगर area.
by the 1990s, San जोस 's स्थान within the booming local प्रौद्योगिकी उद्योग अर्जित the नगर इसके nickname, पूंजी of सिलिकॉन घाटी.
सैन जोस अभी maintains global नगर औकात and is the largest नगर in the सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल in शर्तें of population, जमीन क्षेत्रफल, और औद्योगिक विकास.
The u.S. जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो reported the population of the नगर to be 945,942 as of the 2010 Census.
As of अप्रैल 2013, the estimated population of San जोस was 984,000.
सैन Jose, along with the सांता Clara Valley, अनुभवी about हाफ a century of spectacular suburban sprawl, साथ विशेषताएँ of intense शहरी समान to the Los एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल of Southern कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
The नगर has लिया definite कदम to avoid बनने `` L.A. उत्तर ''.
However, the sprawl in सैन Jose is worse than in लॉस एंजिल्स by उपायों such as जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व and public पारगमन safety, investment, और ridership.
यूरोपीय depicted by antwerp cartographer अब्राहम Ortelius in 1595
the history of यूरोपीय कवर the people inhabiting the यूरोपीय महाद्वीप since it थी पहला आबादी in प्रागैतिहासिक टाइम्स to present, साथ the पहला होमो sapiens arriving between 45,000 और 25,000 BC.
the earliest settlers to Prehistoric Europe आए दौरान the paleolithic era.
The arrival of agriculture around 7000 BC ushered in the पाषाणकालीन आयु.
Neolithic यूरोपीय lasted लिये 4000 सालो, overlapping with metal-using cultures कि धीरे स्प्रेड throughout the महाद्वीप.
technological अग्रिम during the prehistoric आयु tended to arrive इससे the मध्य ईस्ट, spreading धीरे to the उत्तरपश्चिम.
कुछ of the best-known civilizations of प्रागैतिहासिक Europe were मिनोआई और Mycenaean, which flourished दौरान the कांस्य आयु until वे collapsed in a छोटी काल of time around 1200 bc.
the काल known as classical प्राचीनता began साथ the rise of the city-states of प्राचीन यूनानियों.
Greek influence पहुँचे इसके zenith अंतर्गत the expansive साम्राज्य of Alexander the ग्रेट, spreading throughout Asia.
Northern और पश्चिमी Europe यहूद वर्चस्व by the La Tène संस्कृति, a precursor to the celts.
रोम, a small city-state traditionally संस्थापित in 753 bc, होता grow to become the रोमन गणतंत्र in 509 BC and होता succeed यूनानी culture as the dominant भूमध्यसागरीय civilization.
the कार्यक्रम of the नियम of जूलियस सीज़र led to reorganization of the गणतंत्र into the रोमन Empire.
the साम्राज्य थी बाद divided by the सम्राट diocletian into the Western and Eastern empires.
दौरान the later सालो of the रोमन साम्राज्य, the germanic peoples of उत्तरी Europe grew in शक्ति और repeated हमले led to the पतन of the पश्चिमी Roman Empire in ad 476, a date which traditionally marks the समाप्त of the classical period और the प्रारंभ of the मध्य Ages.
दौरान the मध्य आयु, the पूर्वी रोमन साम्राज्य survived, though modern historians refer to इस राज्य as the बीज़ान्टिन साम्राज्य.
in Western यूरोपीय, Germanic peoples स्थानांतरित into स्थितियाँ of शक्ति in the remnants of the former Western Roman साम्राज्य and established kingdoms और empires of उनके अपना.
of सब of the Germanic peoples, the franks होता वृद्धि to a position of आधिपत्य over western Europe, the frankish साम्राज्य reaching इसके peak अंतर्गत शारलेमेन around ad 800.
Francia थी divided into अनेक भाग ; West francia would evolve into the Kingdom of फ़्रांस, जबकि ईस्ट Francia होता evolve into the पावन रोमन Empire, a precursor to modern Germany.
the British isles were the site of अनेक large-scale migrations.
Native Celtic peoples had महरूम marginalized दौरान the काल of रोमन ब्रिटेन, और जब the romans abandoned the अंग्रेजों Isles दौरान the 400s, लहरें of Germanic Anglo-Saxons migrated to दक्षिणी Britain और स्थापित a series of क्षुद्र kingdoms in कया होता आखिरकार develop into the किंगडम of इंग्लैण्ड by ad 927.
During इस काल, the किंगडम of कैंडल और Kingdom of Hungary ( 1000–1945 ) यहूद organized as खूब.
The viking आयु, a काल of migrations of scandinavian peoples, वर्चस्व the काल from the late 700s to the मध्य 1000s.
Chief among the viking states थी the साम्राज्य of Cnut the Great, a डैनिश नेता who would become किंग of England, डेनमार्क, and Norway.
the Normans, a viking people जो settled in उत्तरी France and संस्थापित the Duchy of normandy, would have a significant प्रभाव on अनेक भाग of यूरोपीय, इससे the नॉर्मन conquest of इंग्लैण्ड to दक्षिणी Italy and सिसिली.
another Scandinavian people, the rus ' लोगों, would go on to मिला kievan Rus ', an early state जिससे थी a precursor लिये the आधुनिक देश of रूस.
as the Viking आयु drew to a बंद, the काल known as the क्रूसेड, a series of religiously-motivated military रिझाने originally intended to लाओ the levant वापस into ईसाई नियम, began.
अनेक जेहादी states were founded in the पूर्वी Mediterranean.
These यहूद सब short-lived.
the crusaders होता have a profound प्रभाव on अनेक भाग of Europe.
Their बोरी of Constantinople in 1204 brought an abrupt end to the Byzantine Empire.
विलुप्त dog breeds is a compilation of श्वान breeds that have become extinct.
वी Speak is a microphone accessory लिये Nintendo 's वी video game console.
Connected to the कंसोल via USB, the device can be placed near the video प्रदर्शक, allowing आवाज़ chat to be conducted साथ the entire रूम.
The device सुविधाएँ an LED to indicate when the माइक्रोफोन is क्रियाशील.
वी Speak थी घोषित at निन्टेंडो 's 2008 e3 media drug.
it was released separately और bundled साथ एनिमल Crossing : नगर लोक on November 16, 2008, in उत्तर America, और थी released on दिसम्बर 5, 2008, in यूरोपीय.
the वी बोलो accessory is succeeded by the embedded माइक्रोफोन on the वी U 's gamepad नियंत्रक.
निसान बुद्धिमान Key®
a smart कुंजी is an electronic अभिगम and authorization प्रणाली which is available as an option or मानक in अनेक गाड़ियाँ.
it was first विकसित by siemens in the mid-1990s and introduced by mercedes-benz under the नाम `` Keyless go '' in 1998 on the W220 s-class following its design पेटेंट दायर by Daimler-Benz on may 17, 1997.
univisión ( ) is a Spanish-language टेलीविज़न network in the United राज्य.
The network is primarily dedicated लिये लैटिन अमरीकी परिवारों who reside in the संयुक्त States.
it रै the largest audience of Spanish-language टेलीविज़न viewers in the संसार according to Nielsen दरजा.
रैंडी falco, ( CEO as of जून 29, 2011 ) COO, रै महरूम in चार्ज of the company चूंकि the departure of Univision संचार president और सीईओ जो Uva in April 2010.
In recent सालो the network has reached पैरिटी साथ the U.S. 's five प्रमुख english-language टेलीविज़न संजाल, और is प्रायः a दमदार fifth, outranking the CW, साथ कुछ fourth-place weekly placings, और as of 2012, even पहला प्लेस rankings for व्यक्तिगत programs over सब five English संजाल due to the संजाल 's सतत अनुसूची of new telenovelas all 52 सप्ताह of the year.
univisión is headquartered in नई York, और has इसके major studios, उत्पादन सुविधाएं, और operations in Doral, फ्लोरिडा, a suburb of मियामी.
In 2009, another टेलीविज़न स्टुडियो थी घोषित, Univision Studios, to be built in doral.
univision is उपलब्धियाँ on केबल and उपग्रह in सबसे of the देश, with local stations in over 50 markets with विशाल हिस्पैनिक और लातीनी populations और a नेशनल cable network feed वितरित in बाज़ार बगैर either the उपलब्धता or the demand लिये a locally-based station.
सबसे of ये stations एयर पूरा लोकल न्यूज और अन्य लोकल प्रोग्रामिंग in addition to network shows, and in प्रमुख markets ऐसे as लॉस एंजिल्स, New York, और Miami the local newscasts carried by the संजाल 's owned-and-operated स्टेशन ( O & o ) स्टेशन हैं बराबर प्रतिस्पर्धी साथ उनके English-language counterparts ratings-wise.
univisión थी acquired on March 29, 2007 by a consortium led by haim Saban 's saban पूंजी Group ( who था previously स्वामित्व the एंटिटी Saban entertainment ), TPG Capital, L.P., विधाता इक्विटी साझेदार, मैडिसन Dearborn साझेदार, और थामस H. Lee साझेदार लिये $ 13.7 billion or $ 36.25 प्रति share प्लस $ 1.4 billion in acquired debt.
the buyout बाएँ the कम्पनी साथ a कर्ज़ स्तर of बारह टाइम्स इसके annual नकदी flow, which थी twice the norm in buyouts किया over the previous दो सालो.
कलाकार 's धारणा of a आदिग्रह डिस्क
the गठन and of the सौर प्रणाली is अनुमानित to have begun 4.6 billion सालो ago with the गुरुत्वाकर्षक पतन of a छोटी part of a दानव molecular बादल.
Most of the collapsing द्रव्यमान collected in the केन्द्र, forming the Sun, जबकि the rest flattened into a आदिग्रह disk आउट of जिससे the ग्रह, moons, asteroids, और अन्य छोटी सौर प्रणाली लाशें formed.
इस widely स्वीकृत मॉडल, known as the nebular परिकल्पना, was पहला developed in the 18th century by emanuel Swedenborg, immanuel kant, and Pierre-Simon Laplace.
इसके subsequent विकास has interwoven a variety of वैज्ञानिक disciplines सहित astronomy, भौतिकी, geology, और planetary विज्ञान.
Since the भोर of the स्पेस आयु in the 1950s and the discovery of extrasolar planets in the 1990s, the मॉडल has been both challenged और refined to खाता लिये नई observations.
the सौर System रै evolved considerably चूंकि its आरंभिक गठन.
Many moons have formed इससे circling discs of gas और dust around उनके parent planets, जबकि अन्य moons are thought to have formed independently और बाद महरूम captured by उनके planets.
Still अन्य, as the Earth 's चंद्रमा, may be the result of giant टक्करों.
Collisions between bodies have occurred continually up to the present दिन और have been सेंट्रल to the एवोल्यूशन of the सौर System.
the स्थितियाँ of the ग्रह प्रायः shifted, और ग्रह have switched places.
इस ग्रहीय माइग्रेशन is अभी विचार to have महरूम responsible लिये much of the सौर प्रणाली 's जल्दी एवोल्यूशन.
In roughly 5 अरब सालो, the सूर्य होगा cool and expand outward many टाइम्स इसके वर्तमान व्यास ( becoming a रेड दानव ), before ढलाई off इसके बाहरी परतों as a ग्रहीय नीहारिका and leaving behind a तारकीय remnant known as a श्वेत बौना.
in the far distant भविष्य, the gravity of passing सितारों होगा धीरे reduce the सूर्य 's retinue of ग्रह.
कुछ planets will be नष्ट, others ejected into अंतरतारकीय स्पेस.
ultimately, over the course of tens of billions of years, it is likely that the Sun होगा be बाएँ with none of the असली bodies in orbit around it.
The Trial ( Kafka 's original जर्मनी title :, बाद as, and ) is a अनोखा लिखा by फ्रांज Kafka in 1914 और 1915 but नहीं प्रकाशित जबतक 1925.
One of काफ्का 's best-known works, it tells the स्टोरी of a man arrested and prosecuted by a remote, अभिगम्य authority, with the प्रकृति of his अपराधों नाज़िल to neither him nor the रीडर.
जैसे काफ्का 's other novels, the विचारण थी never completed, हालांकि it करता include a chapter जिससे brings the स्टोरी to an समाप्त.
Because of this there are निश्चित inconsistencies जिससे मौजूद भीतर the novel, ऐसे as असमानताओं in समय in addition to other discontinuities in narration.
बाद काफ्का 's मौत in 1924 उसके friend and literary executor Max brod संपादित the टेक्स्ट लिये publication by Verlag Die schmiede.
the असली पाण्डुलिपि is आयोजित at the संग्रहालय of आधुनिक साहित्य, marbach am neckar, जर्मनी.
In 1999, the book थी listed in le mondes 100 किताबे of the सदी और as No. 2 of the Best German Novels of the Twentieth सदी.
लिसा Anne लोएब ( born कूच 11, 1968 ) is an American singer-songwriter और actress.
वो शुभारम्भ her career in 1994 साथ the song, `` Stay ( I Missed तुम ) ``, which थी शामिल in the film वास्तविकता Bites.
She was the पहला artist to have a क्रमांक one सिंगल in the United States while not हस्ताक्षरित to a रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध.
उसके five studio cds शामिल उसके प्रमुख लेबल डेब्यू, the gold-selling tails और its follow-up, the grammy-nominated, gold-selling पटाखा.
Loeb रै भी worked in फिल्मी, टेलीविज़न, voice-over work and children’s रिकार्डिंग.
Loeb रै appeared in दो television श्रेणी, dweezil & लिसा, a weekly culinary adventure for the Food संजाल और क्रमांक 1 सिंगल, a वास्तविकता दिखाएँ on the e !
Network in 2006 focused on उसके क्वेस्ट लिये प्रेम, कामयाबी, career, and परिवार.
Her children 's म्यूज़िक शामिल the एल्बम Catch the चंद्रमा ( 2003 ), और शिविर लिसा ( 2008 ).
उसके first संयुक्त children 's book and एल्बम लिसा लोएब 's Silly sing-along : The Disappointing पैनकेक और अन्य zany गीतों was प्रकाशित in 2011.
In 2010 वो संस्थापित the Lisa लोएब चश्मा Collection, जिससे is आधारित on उसके अपना डिजाइन.
the Coat of arms of the राज्य of नई जर्सी शामिलs:
a shield साथ three plows emblazoned, प्रतिनिधि of New Jersey 's agricultural परंपरा.
A forward-facing नाईट 's हेल्मेट.
a घोड़ा 's head as the crest of the हेल्मेट.
the मादा आंकड़े स्वतंत्रता और ceres, प्रतिनिधि of the state 's motto ( देखिए अगला मद ).
Liberty is holding a स्टाफ supporting a `` स्वतंत्रता cap `` ; Ceres is holding an overflowing cornucopia.
the streamer at the foot of the emblem contains the राज्य Motto of नई Jersey, `` स्वतंत्रता और Prosperity '', और the साल of statehood, 1776.
It थी originally designed by Pierre यूजीन du Simitiere in 1777 and थी modified slightly in 1928.
The seal is the central मोटिफ in the flag of New Jersey और the ग्रेट Seal of the State of New जर्सी.
the कोट of arms contains a घोड़ा 's सिर.
A helmet प्रर्दशित कि New जर्सी governs itself तदनुसार and तीन plows on a shield referring to the राज्य 's कृषि tradition, giving it the उपनाम `` गार्डन राज्य ''.
the दो देवियाँ represent the राज्य motto, `` Liberty और समृद्धि ''.
Liberty is on the बाएँ.
वो is पकड़कर a स्टाफ with a स्वतंत्रता कैप on it, and the word liberty underneath उसके.
the देवी on the right is ceres, देवी of कृषि.
वो is holding a cornucopia साथ समृद्धि written below उसके.
According to the मिनट्स of the New जर्सी सामान्य Assembly लिये March 11, 1896, the date in जिससे the सभा officially approved the ध्वज as the राज्य emblem, the buff रंग is due indirectly to George वॉशिंगटन, who था ordered on अक्तूबर 2, 1779, that the uniform coats of the नई Jersey महाद्वीपीय Line be अंधेरा ( जर्सी ) ब्लू, with buff facings.
Buff-colored facings था until तब been सुरक्षित तभी for his अपना वर्दी और those of अन्य Continental सेनापतियों और उनके aides.
तब, on February 28, 1780, the Continental War Officers in फिलाडेल्फिया निर्देशित that the uniform कोट facings of सब regiments were to be the वही as the background रंग of the regiments ' राज्य ध्वज.
The seal is वर्णित in नई जर्सी statute शीर्षक 52, §2-1:
`` We can कार्य It आउट '' is a song by the Beatles, लिखा by पॉल McCartney और जॉन लेनन.
It was released as a `` double A-sided `` सिंगल with `` Day tripper ``, the पहला समय both sides of a सिंगल यहूद so designated in an आरंभिक रिलीज.
दोनो songs were recorded दौरान the Rubber आत्मा sessions.
the सोंग is an example of Lennon–McCartney सहयोग at a गहराई कि happened only rarely after वे wrote the hit singles of 1963.
इस सोंग, `` a Day in the Life ``, `` baby, तुम 're a समृद्ध Man `` and `` I 've Got a अहसास ``, हैं among the notable exceptions.
As a चिकित्सा निदान, pedophilia or paedophilia is a psychiatric विकार in persons 16 years of आयु or older typically characterized by a प्राथमिक or विशेष यौन ब्याज toward prepubescent children ( generally आयु 11 सालो or younger, हालांकि विशिष्ट diagnosis criteria लिये the विकार extends the cut-off point for prepubescence to age 13 ).
an adolescent जो is 16 years of age or older must be at least पाँच सालो पुरानी than the prepubescent चाइल्ड पहले the आकर्षण can be diagnosed as pedophilia.
The term has a दायरा of definitions, as मिला in psychiatry, मनोविज्ञान, the देशी, और विधि प्रवर्तन.
the अंतरराष्ट्रीय वर्गीकरण of रोगों ( ICD ) defines pedophilia as a `` विकार of वयस्क व्यक्तित्व और behaviour '' in जिससे वहीँ is a यौन वरीयता लिये children of prepubertal or जल्दी pubertal आयु.
according to the Diagnostic and Statistical हस्तचालित of दिमागी Disorders ( DSM ), it is a paraphilia in जिससे वयस्कों or adolescents 16 सालो of age or पुरानी have तीव्र और तूल यौन प्रेरणाएं towards and कल्पनाओं परिचय prepubescent children that वे have either acted on or जिससे cause उन्हें तकलीफ or interpersonal परेशानी.
in लोकप्रिय उपयोग, pedophilia means कोई sexual ब्याज in children or the act of चाइल्ड यौन गाली, often termed `` pedophilic behavior ''.
For example, the American विरासत Stedman 's Medical शब्दकोष states, `` Pedophilia is the act or काल्पनिक on the भाग of an वयस्क of engaging in sexual activity with a child or children. ''
This common use अनुप्रयोग also extends to the sexual ब्याज in और यौन contact साथ रोमिल or post-pubescent नाबालिग.
Researchers recommend that ये imprecise uses be avoided क्युकी हालांकि people जो कमिट चाइल्ड sexual गाली commonly प्रदर्शनी the disorder, कुछ अपराधियों do not मिलें the clinical निदान मानकों लिये pedophilia और ये मानकों pertain to prepubescents.
additionally, not सब pedophiles दरअसल कमिट such गाली.
Pedophilia थी पहला formally पहचाना और नामित in the लेट 19th सदी.
a significant amount of शोध in the क्षेत्रफल रै taken प्लेस चूंकि the 1980s.
हालांकि ज़्यादातर प्रलेखित in men, there are भी महिलाओं जो प्रदर्शनी the विकार, and researchers assume उपलब्धियाँ estimates underrepresent the true क्रमांक of female pedophiles.
no cure लिये pedophilia has been developed, but there are therapies कि can reduce the incidence of a person committing child यौन abuse.
In the संयुक्त राज्य, following Kansas v. hendricks, sex अपराधियों जो हैं diagnosed साथ निश्चित दिमागी disorders, particularly pedophilia, can be विषय to indefinite civil प्रतिबद्धता, अंतर्गत various state कानून ( generically called svp कानून ) and the संघीय आदम Walsh Child Protection और सुरक्षा Act of 2006.
at उपस्थित, the सटीक causes of pedophilia have not been conclusively स्थापित.
Research suggests that pedophilia may be correlated with अनेक अलग neurological abnormalities, और often co-exists साथ अन्य व्यक्तित्व disorders और psychological pathologies.
in the contexts of forensic मनोविज्ञान and law प्रवर्तन, a किस्में of typologies have been सुझाया to categorize pedophiles according to behavior और motivations.
जूलियो césar chávez ( born Julio César chávez gonzález on जुलाई 12, 1962 ) is a रिटायर्ड Mexican पेशेवर boxer.
chávez is considered by अनेक people for उनके खेल आंकडे the महानतम fighter ever to come out of मैक्सिको.
He is a six-time संसार चैंपियन in तीन weight divisions, and for several सालो he थी माना एक of the बेहतरीन pound-for-pound boxer in the संसार.
In a career that spanned over 25 years, Chávez जीती पाँच world titles in तीन वज़न विभाजन : wbc Super featherweight in 1984, WBA lightweight in 1987, wbc lightweight in 1988, WBC लाइट welterweight in 1989, ibf लाइट Welterweight in 1990, और wbc Light welterweight in 1994.
he holds records लिये सबसे successful लगातार defenses of world शीर्षक ( 27 ), सबसे title fights ( 37 ), सबसे title-fight victories ( 31 ) और he is after जो Louis with ( 23 ) लिये सबसे शीर्षक defenses won by knockout ( 21 ).
Chávez भी रै the longest अपराजित streak in मुक्केबाज़ी इतिहास, 13 सालो.
उसके record थी 89-0-1 going into his पहला loss to Frankie रान्डेल and था an 87 fight win streak जबतक his `` draw '' साथ Whitaker.
जूलियो César chávez थी ज्ञात for his outstanding punching शक्ति, विनाशकारी देह attack, remarkably दमदार chin और the relentless stalking of उसके प्रतिद्वंद्वियों.
he ranks # 24 on ईएसपीएन 's 50 महानतम Boxers of All समय.
On दिसम्बर 7, 2010, he थी inducted in the prestigious International मुक्केबाज़ी Hall of Fame लिये the Class of 2011.
he is the father of prospect Omar chávez और पूर्व WBC Middleweight Champion Julio césar chávez, Jr.
`` selektion `` on the judenrampe, auschwitz, May/June 1944.
To be भेजा to the सही meant slave labor ; to the left, the गैस कक्ष.
इस चित्र shows the आगमन of हंगेरियाई यहूदियों इससे carpatho-ruthenia, अनेक of उन्हें from the berehov ghetto.
The photographer was अर्नस्ट hofmann or Bernhard Walter of the ss. Image सौजन्य of yad Vashem
The holocaust ( from the यूनानी ' : hólos, `` whole '' and kaustós, `` burnt '' ) भी known as the Shoah ( यहूदी :, hashoah, `` catastrophe '' ; Yiddish :, Churben or hurban, इससे the Hebrew लिये `` destruction '' ), was the द्रव्यमान हत्या or genocide of approximately छह million यहूदियों during संसार युद्ध II, a कार्यक्रम of व्यवस्थित state-sponsored हत्या by Nazi जर्मनी, led by Adolf Hitler और the Nazi Party, throughout German-occupied territory.
Of the नौ लाख Jews जो था resided in यूरोपीय पहले the Holocaust, approximately two-thirds were मारे.
Over एक million Jewish children were killed in the holocaust, as यहूद लगभग दो लाख यहूदी women and three लाख यहूदी men.
A network of over 40,000 सुविधाएं in जर्मनी and German-occupied territory यहूद प्रयुक्त to concentrate, hold, और kill यहूदियों और other victims.
कुछ scholars argue कि the mass हत्या of the romani and लोगों साथ disabilities चाहिए be शामिल in the परिभाषा, and कुछ use the common noun `` holocaust '' to describe other Nazi mass murders, सहित those of Soviet prisoners of युद्ध, पॉलिश और सोवियत civilians, and homosexuals.
Recent estimates based on आंकड़े obtained since the पतन of the सोवियत Union indicates some टेन to eleven लाख civilians और prisoners of war were intentionally murdered by the Nazi regime.
the persecution और नरसंहार यहूद carried आउट in चरण.
विभिन्न laws to remove the यहूदियों इससे सिविल society, most prominently the nuremberg Laws, यहूद enacted in Germany सालो पहले the outbreak of World युद्ध II.
Concentration camps were established in which inmates were वशीभूत to स्लेव मजदूर जबतक they died of थकावट or disease.
Where Germany conquered new territory in पूर्वी यूरोपीय, specialized इकाई पुकारा Einsatzgruppen murdered यहूदियों और political प्रतिद्वंद्वियों in mass shootings.
the occupiers जरूरी यहूदियों और Romani to be confined in overcrowded ghettos पहले being transported by freight train to extermination camps जहाँ, if वे survived the यात्रा, सबसे यहूद systematically मारे in गैस कक्षों.
प्रत्येक भुजा of Germany 's bureaucracy थी शामिल in the लोजिस्टिक्स कि led to the genocides, turning the Third reich into what एक holocaust scholar has called `` a genocidal state ''.
4-h in the संयुक्त राज्य is a youth organization administered by the नेशनल संस्थान of खाना और कृषि of the संयुक्त States विभाग of कृषि ( USDA ), साथ the मिशन of `` engaging youth to reach their fullest संभावित जबकि advancing the field of युवावस्था development. ''
the name represents four निजी विकास क्षेत्रों of focus लिये the organization : head, heart, hands, और health.
the organization रै over 6.5 लाख सदस्यों in the संयुक्त States, इससे आयु पाँच to twenty-one, in approximately 90,000 clubs.
The लक्ष्य of 4-H is to develop नागरिकता, नेतृत्व, जिम्मेदारी और life कौशल of युवावस्था through experiential learning कार्यक्रम and a positive युवावस्था विकास approach.
Though typically thought of as an agriculturally केन्द्रित organization as a परिणाम of इसके इतिहास, 4-h आज focuses on citizenship, healthy जीना, science, अभियान्त्रिकी, and technology programs.
आज, 4-h और related कार्यक्रम मौजूद in over eighty देशों around the संसार ; the organization and प्रशासन varies इससे country to देश.
Each of ये programs operates independently, but cooperatively through international exchanges, global शिक्षा programs, और communications.
The 4-H motto is `` to make the बेहतरीन better '', जबकि इसके स्लोगन is `` सीख by doing '' ( sometimes लिखा as `` सीख to do by doing '' ).
the national ध्वज of चिली, consists of दो unequal आड़ा bands of श्वेत and रेड और a ब्लू वर्गाकार the वही height as the white band in the कैण्टन, which bears a श्वेत five-pointed स्टार in the center.
it was adopted on 18 अक्तूबर 1817.
The Chilean ध्वज is भी ज्ञात in Spanish as la estrella Solitaria ( The Lone Star ).
the स्टार represents a guide to प्रगति and सम्मान ; blue symbolizes the आसमान and the Pacific समंदर, white is लिये the snow-covered andes, and रेड stands लिये the रक्त spilled to achieve स्वतंत्रता.
according to the एपिक poem la araucana, the colors यहूद निकला from those इससे the flag flown by the Mapuche दौरान the Arauco War.
`` ध्वज दिन '' is आयोजित प्रत्येक साल on the ninth of July to commemorate the 77 सैनिको who died in the 1882 बैटल of La Concepción.
पीढी y, भी ज्ञात as the अंतर्दृष्टियों Generation, is the जनसांख्यिकी cohort following Generation x.
There हैं no precise तिथियाँ लिये जब Generation Y starts and ends.
Commentators उपयोग beginning birth dates from the latter 1970s, or इससे the जल्दी 1980s to the early 2000s.
The torches of नीरो, by henryk siemiradzki.
according to tacitus, नीरो targeted ईसाइयों as those responsible लिये the fire.
The Great Fire of रोम ( ) थी an शहरी आग कि occurred शुरूआत 19 July AD 64.
Virginia ( ), officially the राष्ट्रमंडल of वर्जिनिया, is a u.S. राज्य located in the दक्षिण अटलांटिक region of the संयुक्त States.
वर्जिनिया is nicknamed the `` Old Dominion '' और the `` माँ of राष्ट्रपतियों '' बाद the आठ U.S. presidents born वहीँ.
the भूगोल and जलवायु of the राष्ट्रमंडल हैं तराशा by the Blue लकीरें Mountains और the Chesapeake Bay, जिससे provide आवास for much of इसके फ्लोरा और fauna.
The capital of the राष्ट्रमंडल is Richmond ; और वर्जिनिया बीच is the most populous नगर.
फेयरफैक्स काउंटी is the सबसे populous political subdivision.
the wealthiest is loudoun काउंटी.
the Commonwealth 's जनसांख्यिकी is over eight लाख.
The क्षेत्रफल 's history begins with several स्वदेशी समूह, सहित the Powhatan.
In 1607 the लंदन कम्पनी established the Colony of Virginia as the first स्थाई New World अंग्रेज़ी colony.
स्लेव मजदूर and the land acquired from displaced देशी अमरीकी tribes each निभाई a significant भूमिका in the colony 's early राजनीती और वृक्षारोपण अर्थव्यवस्था.
Virginia थी one of the 13 Colonies in the American क्रान्ति और joined the Confederacy in the American सिविल युद्ध, दौरान जिससे Richmond थी बना the Confederate पूंजी और Virginia 's northwestern counties seceded to रूप the state of West वर्जिनिया.
हालांकि the राष्ट्रमंडल was अंतर्गत रूढ़िवादी single-party नियम लिये nearly a सदी following पुनर्निर्माण, दोनो major नेशनल पार्टियों हैं competitive in आधुनिक वर्जिनिया.
the वर्जिनिया General सभा is the oldest विधानमंडल in the पश्चिमी Hemisphere.
The राज्य सरकारी has महरूम repeatedly क्रमित most effective by the pew बीच on the राज्य.
It is unique in how it treats cities and काउंटी equally, manages लोकल सड़कें, और prohibits इसके governors इससे serving लगातार terms.
वर्जिनिया 's अर्थव्यवस्था रै many सेक्टर : कृषि in the shenandoah घाटी ; संघीय एजेंसियों in Northern Virginia, सहित the मुख्यालय of the विभाग of रक्षा और सीआईए ; और military facilities in Hampton सड़कें, the साईट of the region 's प्रमुख seaport.
वर्जिनिया 's पब्लिक स्कूलों and अनेक colleges and universities have contributed to growing media और technology sectors.
As a result, कंप्यूटर chips have become the राज्य 's leading export.
खिड़कियाँ फिल्म मेकर ( formerly ज्ञात as खिड़कियाँ सजीव फिल्म Maker, codenamed sundance ) is a फ्रीवेयर video संपादन software by Microsoft.
it is a part of Windows अनिवार्य तन्त्र suite और offers the क्षमता to बनाएँ और edit वीडियो as well as to प्रकाशित them on skydrive, फेसबुक, youtube, and Flickr.
`` ब्रेंडा 's मिला A baby '' is the सोलो डेब्यू सिंगल by Tupac shakur, और tenth track इससे उसके debut एल्बम, 2Pacalypse Now.
the song, जिससे features r & b सिंगर डेव hollister, is about a बारह year-old girl नामित ब्रेंडा जो जीवनदान in a ghetto, रै a baby, and is incapable of supporting it.
The सोंग explores the समस्या of टीन गर्भावस्था and its effect on the young माताओं and उनके परिवारों.
Like many of Shakur 's गीतों, `` Brenda 's Got a baby '' draws इससे the दुर्दशा of the impoverished.
using Brenda to represent यंग माताओं in सामान्य, Shakur criticises the low level of support इससे the baby 's पिता, the government, और society in सामान्य.
shakur लिखा the सोंग when he पढ़ा a newspaper article परिचय a twelve-year-old लड़की who मिला गर्भवती इससे her cousin and, because she किया not want उसके अभिभावक to जान परिचय the baby, फेंका it in a trash can.
the official logo of Pokémon लिये its international release ; `` Pokémon '' is छोटी लिये the असली जापानी title of `` जेब राक्षस ''.
is a मीडिया franchise published और स्वामित्व by जापानी video खेल कम्पनी निन्टेंडो और created by सातोशी Tajiri in 1996.
originally released as a pair of interlinkable खेल लड़के role-playing वीडियो games विकसित by खेल freak, पोकीमॉन has चूंकि become the second-most successful और lucrative वीडियो game-based media मताधिकार in the संसार, पीछे only निन्टेंडो 's अपना मारियो franchise.
Pokémon गुण have since been merchandised into दुश्मनी, manga, व्यापार ताश, toys, books, और other मीडिया.
the मताधिकार celebrated in 2006, and, cumulative बिक्री of the वीडियो games ( सहित घर कंसोल संस्करण, such as the `` pikachu '' Nintendo 64 ) have पहुँचे more than 200 million copies.
in नवम्बर 2005, 4Kids Entertainment, जिससे था प्रबंधित the non-game सम्बन्धित लाइसेंसिंग of पोकीमॉन, घोषित कि it था सहमत नहीं to renew the पोकीमॉन प्रतिनिधित्व अनुबंध.
पोकीमॉन USA Inc. ( now The पोकीमॉन कम्पनी International ), a subsidiary of जापानी 's पोकीमॉन Co., now oversees सब Pokémon लाइसेंसिंग बाहर of एशिया.
The name पोकीमॉन is the romanized संकुचन of the जापानी brand.
The पद पोकीमॉन, in जोड to referring to the Pokémon franchise itself, भी collectively refers to the 649 fictional species that have बना appearances in पोकीमॉन मीडिया as of the रिलीज of the पांचवां पीढी शीर्षक Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 ; साथ the आगामी रिलीज of पोकीमॉन x और Y, 6 new Pokémon have been प्रदर्शित in प्रचार लिये the games.
`` Pokémon '' is identical in दोनो the singular और बहुवचन, as is each individual species नाम ; it is grammatically सही to say `` एक पोकीमॉन '' और `` अनेक Pokémon '', as खूब as `` एक Pikachu `` और `` अनेक Pikachu ''.
कवर of the first संस्करण of the publication Dada by ट्रिस्टन Tzara ; ज्यूरिख, 1917
Dada ( ) or Dadaism थी an आर्ट movement of the European avant-garde in the जल्दी 20th सदी.
Many claim दादा began in ज्यूरिख, स्विट्ज़रलैंड in 1916, spreading to Berlin shortly thereafter लकिन the height of नई York Dada was the year पहले in 1915.
to quote डोना Budd 's the भाषा of Art ज्ञान, Dada was born आउट of negative reaction to the horrors of संसार War I.
इस international गति थी begun by a समूह of artist और कवियों associated with the कैबरे Voltaire in Zurich.
Dada rejected कारण और लॉजिक, prizing बकवास, irrationality और अंतर्ज्ञान.
The उत्पत्ति of the name Dada is unclear ; कुछ believe that it is a nonsensical word.
अन्य maintain कि it originates from the रोमानियाई artists Tristan Tzara और मार्सल janco 's frequent उपयोग of the शब्द da, da, अर्थ यस, yes in the रोमानियाई language.
another सिद्धान्त says that the name `` Dada '' came दौरान a meeting of the समूह when a paper चाकू stuck into a french-german dictionary happened to पाइंट to 'डैडa ', a फ्रेंच word लिये 'hobbyhorse '.
the गति primarily involved visual कला, साहित्य, काव्य, art manifestoes, art सिद्धान्त, theatre, और graphic design, और concentrated इसके anti-war राजनीती through a rejection of the प्रचलित मानकों in आर्ट through anti-art सांस्कृतिक works.
In जोड to being anti-war, दादा was भी anti- बुर्जुआ and had राजनैतिक affinities साथ the कट्टरपंथी left.
दादा क्रियाएँ शामिल पब्लिक महफिलों, demonstrations, और प्रकाशन of art/literary जर्नल्स ; passionate कवरेज of आर्ट, राजनीती, and संस्कृति यहूद topics प्रायः discussed in a किस्में of media.
Key आंकड़े in the गति शामिल Hugo Ball, Emmy hennings, hans arp, raoul hausmann, Hannah höch, योहानेस baader, ट्रिस्टन tzara, फ्रांसिस picabia, Richard huelsenbeck, georg grosz, जॉन heartfield, Marcel Duchamp, Beatrice Wood, Kurt schwitters, and hans Richter, among अन्य.
The गति बहकावे बाद styles जैसे the avant-garde और downtown music movements, और समूह including surrealism, Nouveau réalisme, पॉप आर्ट और Fluxus.
दादा is the groundwork to अमूर्त आर्ट और sound काव्य, a starting पाइंट for performance आर्ट, a prelude to postmodernism, an influence on पॉप art, a celebration of antiart to be later embraced for anarcho-political uses in the 1960s और the movement कि lay the न्यास for Surrealism.
पहला trophic level.
The plants in इस image, और the algae and phytoplankton in the lake, हैं प्राथमिक निर्माता.
वे take nutrients इससे the soil or the water, और manufacture उनके अपना food by photosynthesis, using energy from the sun.
The trophic level of an सजीव is the position it occupies in a खाना कड़ी.
the word trophic गर्भाशयी इससे the यूनानी τροφή ( trophē ) referring to food or feeding.
A खाना कड़ी represents a उत्तराधिकार of जीवों कि खा another सजीव and are, in turn, खाया themselves.
the number of कदम an सजीव is इससे the start of the कड़ी is a माप of its trophic स्तर.
खाना जंजीरों प्रारंभ at trophic स्तर 1 साथ प्राथमिक producers such as पौधे, move to herbivores at स्तर 2, परभक्षी at स्तर 3 and typically समाप्त साथ carnivores or apex predators at स्तर 4 or 5.
The पाथ साथ the कड़ी can form either a one-way प्रवाह, or a food `` वेब. ''
Ecological communities साथ उच्चतर biodiversity रूप अधिक complex trophic राहें.
Four of the सबसे important domesticated silk moths.
Top to नीचे : Bombyx mori, hyalophora cecropia, antheraea pernyi, samia सिंथिया.
इससे मेयर्स Konversations-Lexikon ( 1885-1892 )
A silk-producing raspy क्रिकेट.
रेशा is a natural प्रोटीन fibre, कुछ फ़ॉर्म of which can be woven into textiles.
the protein fibre of रेशा is रचित mainly of fibroin और produced by निश्चित कीट larvae to form cocoons.
the best-known type of silk is प्राप्त इससे the cocoons of the larvae of the शहतूत silkworm Bombyx mori reared in captivity ( sericulture ).
the shimmering रूप of रेशा is due to the triangular प्रिज़्म -like structure of the रेशा fibre, which allows silk cloth to refract आवक लाइट at अलग angles, यूँ producing different colors.
silks are produced by several other कीट, लकिन generally only the रेशा of moth caterpillars रै been प्रयुक्त for textile निर्माण.
There रै महरूम कुछ शोध into अन्य silks, जिससे differ at the molecular स्तर.
अनेक silks हैं mainly produced by the larvae of कीट undergoing पूरा metamorphosis, but कुछ वयस्क कीट ऐसे as webspinners उपज रेशा, और कुछ insects ऐसे as raspy झींगुर उपज रेशा throughout उनके जीवनदान.
Silk उत्पादन भी occurs in कलापक्ष ( मधुमक्खियों, wasps, और ants ), silverfish, mayflies, thrips, leafhoppers, भृंग, lacewings, fleas, उड़ता और midges.
अन्य प्रकार of सन्धिपाद produce रेशा, सबसे notably विभिन्न arachnids ऐसे as spiders ( see मकड़ी silk ).
लेट दिखाएँ साथ David लेटरमैन is an अमरीकी late-night talk show hosted by David लेटरमैन on सीबीएस.
the show debuted on अगस्त 30, 1993, और is उत्पादित by Letterman 's उत्पादन company, विश्वव्यापी पैंट Incorporated.
the दिखाएँ 's music director और band-leader of the house band, the CBS Orchestra, is Paul Shaffer.
The सिर लेखक is मैट रॉबर्ट्स and the उद्घोषक is Alan Kalter.
Of the प्रमुख u.S. late-night कार्यक्रम, लेट Show ranks दूसरी in संचयी औसत दर्शक over समय and third in number of episodes over time.
The दिखाएँ leads other लेट night shows in ad आय साथ $ 271 million in 2009.
in सबसे U.S. markets the show airs at 11:35 p.m. Eastern/Pacific समय, लकिन is अंकित सोमवार through बुधवार at 4:30 p.m., और गुरुवार at 3:30 p.m और 6:00 p.m.
the second गुरुवार episode प्रायः airs on शुक्रवार of that सप्ताह.
In 2002, लेट दिखाएँ with दाउद Letterman थी ranked no. 7 on tv Guide 's 50 Greatest TV Shows of All Time.
सीबीएस has a अनुबंध साथ विश्वव्यापी पैंट to continue the दिखाएँ through 2014 ; by तब, लेटरमैन will surpass जॉनी Carson as the longest tenured late-night talk show मेजबान.
The रियल housewives of Orange काउंटी is an अमरीकी वास्तविकता वृत्तचित्र टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम on ब्रावो, नियत in नारंगी काउंटी, California.
it थी the पहला the रियल housewives कार्यक्रम in the series.
The श्रेणी is a voyeuristic dekh into the wealthy जीवनदान of ये housewives, as वे दूकान, मिलेंगी प्लास्टिक सर्जरी, gossip, fight और सजीव lavishly.
the financial crisis, the beginning of which coincided लगभग exactly with the पहला season 's ब्रॉडकास्ट, रै since trimmed the housewives ' lifestyles with job नुकसान, evictions, mortgage मूलभूत, foreclosures, and marital stress—all recorded in progressive सीज़न of the show.
cyberstalking is the use of the Internet or अन्य इलेक्ट्रॉनिक means to stalk or harass an individual, a group of individuals, or an organization.
it may include the making of गलत accusations or statements of fact ( as in मानहानि ), निगरानी, बनाना खतरे, पहचान चोरी, damage to आंकड़ा or equipment, the solicitation of नाबालिग लिये sex, or gathering information कि may be प्रयुक्त to harass.
the परिभाषा of `` उत्पीड़न '' must मिलें the मानदंड कि a reasonable व्यक्ति, in कब्ज़ा of the वही सूचना, would regard it as sufficient to कारण another उचित person तकलीफ.
cyberstalking is अलग इससे स्थानिक or ऑफ़लाइन stalking in कि it occurs through the उपयोग of electronic संचार प्रौद्योगिकी such as the अंतरजाल.
however, it sometimes लीड to it, or is accompanied by it.
Both हैं दण्ड offenses.
Cyberstalking shares महत्वपूर्ण विशेषताएँ साथ ऑफ़लाइन stalking.
अनेक stalkers – ऑनलाइन or बंद – are motivated by a desire to कंट्रोल their victims.
a cyberstalker may be an ऑनलाइन stranger or a person जिसको the निशाना knows.
A cyberstalker may be बेनाम और may solicit involvement of other people online जो do नहीं even know the निशाना.
cyberstalking is a criminal ठोकर that आता into खेल अंतर्गत राज्य anti-stalking laws, बदनामी laws, और उत्पीड़न कानून.
a cyberstalking conviction can परिणाम in a restraining order, probation, or भी दण्ड penalties विरूद्ध the assailant, सहित कारावास.
A business letter is प्रायः प्रयुक्त when लिखने इससे एक कम्पनी to another, or for पत्राचार between ऐसे संगठन और उनके customers, clients and अन्य बाह्य पार्टियों.
The overall स्टाइल of अक्षर होगा depend on the संबंध between the पार्टियों चिंतित.
There हैं अनेक कारण to लिखें a business अक्षर.
It could be to request सीधा सूचना or कार्रवाई from another पार्टी, to अनुक्रम supplies from a प्रदायक, to identify a mistake कि was वचनबद्ध, to जवाब directly to a request, to माफी लिये a wrong or बस to convey goodwill.
भी आज, the कारोबार letter is स्टिल बहुत उपयोगी क्युकी it produces a permanent रिकार्ड, is गोपनीय, औपचारिक and delivers persuasive, well-considered संदेश.
Tilapia ( ) is the common नाम for nearly a hundred species of cichlid मछली इससे the tilapiine cichlid जनजाति.
tilapia हैं mainly freshwater मछली, inhabiting उथले streams, ponds, नदियाँ और झीलों, and less commonly found जीना in brackish जल.
historically, they have been of प्रमुख importance in कारीगर fishing in Africa और the Levant, and are of increasing importance in aquaculture.
Tilapia can become समस्यापूर्ण हृदयरोग प्रजाति in new warm-water habitats, whether deliberately or accidentally introduced, but generally नहीं in temperate climates due to their अक्षमता to जीवित in cooler waters नीचे परिचय.
टर्नर & Hooch is a 1989 कॉमेडी नाटक अपराधों फिल्मी अभिनीत tom हैंक्स और beasley the Dog as the eponymous वर्ण, Turner और Hooch क्रमशः.
the फिल्मी भी सितारों Mare winningham, क्रेग T. नेल्सन, और रेगिनाल्ड VelJohnson.
It थी निर्देशित by रोजर Spottiswoode ; the फिल्मी was originally slated to be directed by हेनरी winkler, लकिन he थी terminated due to `` रचनात्मक मतभेद ''.
it थी co-written by माइकल blodgett इससे Beyond the Valley of the Dolls fame.
Although K-9 ( साथ जेम्स belushi ) थी released prior to इस फिल्मी ( exactly तीन महीने पहले ), टर्नर & Hooch became more लोकप्रिय and seemingly निष्प्रभ इसके वृहद कामयाबी, भी हालांकि K-9 था a very similar प्लाट.
A पायलट लिये a टर्नर & hooch tv श्रेणी was बना और भागा as a भाग of the Magical संसार of डिज़्नी.
This is a सूची of Israeli airports, sorted by स्थान.
Entrance to ovda विमानक्षेत्र
Terminal 3 at Ben Gurion
Plane लैंडिंग at Be'er sheva ( Teyman )
Eilat विमानक्षेत्र
एडोल्फ Hitler ( ; 20 April 1889 – 30 April 1945 ) थी an आस्ट्रिया -born German राजनेता and the नेता of the नाजी पार्टी ( ( nsdap ) ; National समाजवादी German मजदूर Party ).
he was chancellor of Germany from 1933 to 1945 and तानाशाह of Nazi जर्मनी ( as Führer und Reichskanzler ) इससे 1934 to 1945.
हिटलर थी at the centre of नाजी Germany, संसार War ii in यूरोपीय, and the Holocaust.
Hitler थी a decorated veteran of संसार युद्ध i.
He joined the जर्मनी मजदूर ' Party ( precursor of the NSDAP ) in 1919, और became नेता of the nsdap in 1921.
In 1923, he attempted a coup d'état in म्यूनिख, known as the Beer हॉल putsch.
The failed तख्तापलट resulted in हिटलर 's imprisonment, दौरान जिससे time he wrote his संस्मरण, Mein Kampf ( my संघर्ष ).
बाद his रिलीज in 1924, Hitler gained लोकप्रिय support by attacking the Treaty of versailles and promoting Pan-Germanism, antisemitism, और anti-communism with charismatic oratory और Nazi प्रचार.
बाद his appointment as चांसलर in 1933, he transformed the Weimar गणतंत्र into the तीसरा reich, a single-party तानाशाही आधारित on the अधिनायकवादी और निरंकुश विचारधारा of Nazism.
Hitler 's उद्देश्य थी to establish a New Order of निरपेक्ष Nazi जर्मनी hegemony in continental Europe.
to इस समाप्त, उसके foreign और domestic नीतियों had the aim of seizing Lebensraum ( `` living space '' ) लिये the germanic लोगों.
he directed the rearmament of Germany और the आक्रमण of Poland by the wehrmacht in सितंबर 1939, resulting in the outbreak of संसार युद्ध II in यूरोपीय.
Under Hitler 's नियम, in 1941 जर्मनी शक्तियां and their European allies occupied सबसे of Europe और उत्तर Africa.
in 1943, जर्मनी था महरूम मजबूर onto the रक्षात्मक and suffered a श्रेणी of escalating defeats.
in the फाइनल दिनों of the युद्ध, दौरान the बैटल of Berlin in 1945, हिटलर शादीशुदा his long-time संगी, एवा braun.
On 30 April 1945, कम than two days बाद, the दो committed आत्महत्या to avoid कैप्चर by the रेड Army, और उनके शवों were burned.
Hitler 's आक्रामक विदेशी नीति is माना the प्रमुख कारण of the outbreak of World War II in यूरोपीय.
His antisemitic नीतियों and racially प्रेरित विचारधारा resulted in the deaths of at least 5.5 million Jews, and लाखो of other लोगों deemed racially अवर.
अंगूठा
A domain नाम is an पहचान स्ट्रिंग कि defines a realm of administrative autonomy, प्राधिकार, or control on the अंतरजाल.
Domain names हैं formed by the नियम and procedures of the डोमेन Name प्रणाली ( DNS ).
technically, any नाम registered in the डीएनएस is a डोमेन name.
डोमेन names are प्रयुक्त in विभिन्न नेटवर्किंग contexts and application-specific naming और संबोधित उद्देश्य.
In सामान्य, a डोमेन नाम represents an अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( IP ) संसाधन, ऐसे as a निजी कंप्यूटर प्रयुक्त to अभिगम the अंतरजाल, a server computer होस्टिंग a वेब साईट, or the web साईट itself or any other service communicated via the अंतरजाल.
Domain names are व्यवस्थित in अधीनस्थ levels ( subdomains ) of the DNS रूट डोमेन, जिससे is nameless.
the first-level नियत of डोमेन names हैं the top-level domains ( tlds ), including the generic top-level domains ( gtlds ), such as the prominent domains com, सूचना, जाल और org, और the country कोड top-level डोमेन ( cctlds ).
नीचे these top-level domains in the डीएनएस पदानुक्रम हैं the second-level और third-level domain names that हैं typically खोलें लिये reservation by end-users who काश to connect लोकल क्षेत्रफल संजाल to the अंतरजाल, बनाएँ अन्य सरेआम accessible Internet resources or run web sites.
the पंजीकरण of ये डोमेन names is usually administered by डोमेन नाम registrars who बेचें their सेवाएं to the public.
a fully योग्य domain name ( FQDN ) is a डोमेन नाम that is completely निर्दिष्ट in the पदानुक्रम of the डीएनएस, having no omitted भाग.
डोमेन names हैं प्रायः लिखा in लोअरकेस, हालांकि labels in the Domain Name प्रणाली हैं case-insensitive.
नाइट्रेट is a polyatomic आयन साथ the आणविक formula NO3− and a आणविक द्रव्यमान of 62.0049 g/mol. Nitrates भी describe the सशुल्क कार्यात्मक group RONO2.
These नाइट्रेट esters are a specialized class of विस्फोटक.
a wheat कटाई in idaho
This फ़ोटो इससे a 1921 ज्ञानकोष shows a tractor ploughing a क्रॉप फ़ील्ड.
Agriculture is a प्रमुख industry in the संयुक्त राज्य and the country is a जाल exporter of food.
as of the पिछला census of कृषि in 2007, there were 2.2 लाख farms, covering an क्षेत्रफल of, an average of per farm.
हालांकि agricultural activity occurs in most राज्य, it is particularly concentrated in the vast expanse of flat, arable जमीन ज्ञात as the Great मैदान, जिससे encompasses the सेंट्रल region of the nation.
The mpemba effect, नामित after tanzanian छात्र erasto mpemba, is the assertion that warmer water can freeze तेज़ than colder जल.
Although वहीँ is anecdotal support लिये the effect, वहीँ is no agreement on exactly कया the प्रभाव is और अंतर्गत what circumstances it occurs.
वहीँ have महरूम रिपोर्ट्स of समान phenomena since ancient टाइम्स, although साथ अपर्याप्त विवरण लिये the दावा to be replicated.
The घटना seems contrary to thermodynamics, लकिन a क्रमांक of possible explanations लिये the प्रभाव have महरूम प्रस्तावित.
further investigations होगा need to decide on a precise परिभाषा of `` जमने '' और control a vast number of starting पैरामीटर्स in order to confirm or explain the effect.
the siamese (, ) is एक of the पहला distinctly recognized breeds of प्राच्य cat.
the breed originated in थाईलैंड ( formerly known as सियाम ), जहाँ वे are एक of अनेक देशी breeds और हैं called Wichian Mat ( วิเชียรมาศ, a नाम अर्थ `` चंद्रमा diamond '' ).
in the 20th सदी the siamese बिल्ली became एक of the सबसे लोकप्रिय breeds in यूरोपीय and उत्तर अमेरिका.
विशेषता Food Centers ( QFC ) is a सुपरमार्केट chain based in Bellevue, वॉशिंगटन, with 64 स्टोर्स in the puget ध्वनि प्रदेश of वॉशिंगटन राज्य और in the पोर्टलैंड, Oregon metropolitan क्षेत्रफल.
in अर्थशास्त्र, the money supply or money भण्डार, is the total amount of monetary एसेट उपलब्धियाँ in an economy at a specific समय.
वहीँ हैं several तरीके to define `` money, '' लकिन मानक measures प्रायः शामिल करेंसी in परिसंचरण और demand deposits ( जमाकर्ताओं ' easily पहुँचा एसेट on the किताबे of financial संस्थानों ).
Money supply आंकड़ा हैं अंकित और published, प्रायः by the सरकारी or the central bank of the देश.
पब्लिक और निजी sector analysts have long monitored changes in money supply क्युकी of इसके effects on the दाम स्तर, inflation, the एक्सचेंज रेट और the कारोबार cycle.
कि संबंध between money and कीमतें is historically संबद्ध with the मात्रा theory of धन.
वहीँ is दमदार empirical प्रमाण of a direct संबंध between money-supply विकास और long-term दाम महंगाई, at तनिक लिये रैपिड increases in the राशि of धन in the अर्थव्यवस्था.
That is, a देश such as ज़िम्बाब्वे which देखी rapid increases in इसके धन supply भी देखी rapid increases in कीमतें ( hyperinflation ).
इस is एक reason लिये the रिलायंस on मौद्रिक नीति as a अर्थात् of controlling inflation.
the प्रकृति of this causal chain is the subject of contention.
कुछ शास्त economists argue कि the धन सप्लाई is endogenous ( संकल्पित by the workings of the अर्थव्यवस्था, नहीं by the सेंट्रल बैंको ) and कि the स्त्रोत of inflation must be मिला in the distributional structure of the economy.
In addition, those अर्थशास्त्रियों देखकर the सेंट्रल bank 's कंट्रोल over the धन सप्लाई as feeble say कि वहीँ हैं two weak links between the growth of the धन सप्लाई and the महंगाई रेट.
पहला, in the aftermath of a मंदी, when many resources are underutilized, an बढ़ाएँ in the money सप्लाई can कारण a sustained बढ़ाएँ in रियल production बजाय of महंगाई.
Second, if the velocity of धन, i.e., the अनुपात between nominal GDP and धन सप्लाई, changes, an increase in the धन supply could have either no प्रभाव, an अतिरंजित प्रभाव, or an मनमौजी effect on the विकास of nominal जीडीपी.
Logo for imax.
वारेन थिएटर imax सिनेमा, wichita, कान्सास, USA, 601 सीटे.
a तुलना between 35 mm और 15/70 mm ऋणात्मक areas.
imax ( an संक्षिप्त लिये चित्र अधिकतम ) is a गति चित्र film format और a नियत of सिनेमा प्रक्षेप standards निर्मित by the कनाडाई company IMAX Corporation.
IMAX has the क्षमता to record और display बिंब of far वृहद आकार and रेज़ोल्यूशन than conventional फिल्मी प्रणालियों.
चूंकि 2002, कुछ feature films have महरूम परिवर्तित ( or upgraded ) into imax स्वरूप लिये प्रदर्शक in imax थिएटर and कुछ have also महरूम partially शॉट in IMAX.
imax is the सबसे widely used प्रणाली लिये special-venue फिल्मी प्रस्तुतियों.
, वहीँ हैं 697 IMAX थिएटर in 52 countries.
आज 's Special is a Canadian children 's television दिखाएँ उत्पादित by क्लाइव vanderburgh at TVOntario इससे 1981 to 1987.
It भी भागा on निकलोडियन और the Faith और मान Channel/Odyssey ( अभी the Hallmark चैनल ) as well as अनेक pbs stations throughout the United राज्य.
It was set in a विभाग स्टोर, आधारित on the flagship स्थान of the now defunct सिम्पसन 's in टोरंटो.
Many sequences लिये it यहूद शॉट at the Queen गली West और Yonge गली स्टोर बाद घंटों.
संविधानवाद, in its सबसे general अर्थ, is `` a complex of विचार, attitudes, और पैटर्न of बर्ताव elaborating the principle कि the authority of सरकारी derives इससे और is सीमित by a देह of आधारभूत विधि ''.
a राजनैतिक संगठन is संवैधानिक to the extent कि it `` contain [ s ] institutionalized mechanisms of शक्ति कंट्रोल लिये the protection of the रूचि और लिबर्टीज of the citizenry, सहित those कि may be in the minority ``.
as वर्णित by राजनैतिक scientist और संवैधानिक विद्वान दाउद Fellman :
an ice-cream headache, भी known as दिमाग freeze, cold-stimulus सिरदर्द, or its दिए scientific name sphenopalatine ganglioneuralgia ( meaning `` तंत्रिका पीड़ा of the sphenopalatine गंडिका `` ), is a form of brief cranial पीड़ा or सिरदर्द commonly associated with खपत ( विशेषकर जल्दी consumption ) of ठंडा पेय or foods such as बर्फ cream and ice pops.
it is caused by having something cold टच the छत of the मुँह ( palate ), और is believed to परिणाम from a nerve जवाब causing रैपिड constriction और swelling of रक्त vessels or a `` referring `` of पीड़ा from the छत of the मुँह to the सिर.
The रेट of सेवन लिये ठंडा foods रै been studied as a contributing factor.
वहीँ हैं people जो can not experience `` दिमाग फ्रीज '' or समान लक्षण.
The term ice-cream headache has महरूम in उपयोग चूंकि at least 31 जनवरी 1937, contained in a जर्नल entry by रेबेका timbres published in the 1939 किताब we did n't ask Utopia : a quaker family in सोवियत रूस.
the first प्रकाशित उपयोग of the पद brain फ्रीज, as it pertains to cold-induced headaches, was on 27 may 1991.
`` auld लैंग syne '' ( : note `` s '' बल्कि than `` z '' ) is a स्कॉट्स poem written by Robert Burns in 1788 और set to the tune of a परंपरागत लोक सोंग ( Roud # 6294 ).
It is खूब known in अनेक countries, especially in the english-speaking संसार ; इसके परंपरागत उपयोग being to celebrate the start of the New Year at the stroke of midnight.
by एक्सटेंशन, it is भी सुंग at funerals, graduations और as a farewell or समाप्ति to other अवसरों.
the international लड़के स्काउट youth movement, in अनेक countries, उपयोग it as a बंद to jamborees और other कृत्यों.
the सोंग 's Scots शीर्षक may be अनूदित into अंग्रेज़ी literally as `` बूढ़ा long since '', or more idiomatically, `` long long ago '', `` days गए by '' or `` बूढ़ा टाइम्स ''.
नतीजतन `` For auld lang syne '', as it appears in the पहला line of the chorus, might be loosely translated as `` for ( the sake of ) old times ''.
the phrase `` auld लैंग syne '' is भी used in समान poems by Robert Ayton ( 1570–1638 ), allan Ramsay ( 1686–1757 ), और जेम्स वाटसन ( 1711 ) as खूब as पुरानी लोक गीतों predating Burns.
मैथ्यू Fitt उपयोग the phrase `` In the days of auld लैंग syne '' as the समतुल्य of `` Once upon a समय...
`` in उसके retelling of fairy tales in the Scots भाषा.
Ben schulz, खिलाड़ी of Leeroy जेनकींस at BlizzCon 2007
leeroy Jenkins, sometimes misspelled Leroy जेनकींस और often elongated साथ numerous अतिरिक्त अक्षर, is an अंतरजाल मीम नामित लिये a खिलाड़ी अक्षर created by बेन schulz in blizzard Entertainment 's mmorpg, संसार of warcraft.
the अक्षर became popular due to a वीडियो of the खेल that परिचालित around the अंतरजाल.
the घटना has चूंकि स्प्रेड परे the सीमाएँ of the गेमिंग community into अन्य online और mainstream media.
Oscar Grant थी fatally shot by BART पुलिस officer योहानेस Mehserle in Oakland, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, संयुक्त राज्य, in the जल्दी morning घंटों of नई साल 's Day 2009.
responding to रिपोर्ट्स of a fight on a भीड़ खाड़ी Area Rapid Transit train returning इससे सैन फ्रांसिस्को, बार्ट Police अधिकारियों detained Oscar Grant और several other यात्री on the मंच at the Fruitvale BART स्टेशन.
अधिकारी Johannes mehserle and another अधिकारी यहूद restraining Grant, जो was सजदा and allegedly resisting गिरफ़्तार.
अधिकारी mehserle stood and, according to गवाह, said : `` मिलेंगी back, i 'm gon na tase उसे. ''
तब Mehserle drew उसके गन and shot Grant once in the वापस ; Mehserle appeared stunned, put his hands to उसके head and exclaimed, `` Oh, my God ! ''
दौरान उसके अदालत testimony, mehserle कहा कि ग्रान्ट then exclaimed, `` तुम शॉट me ! ''
ग्रान्ट turned आउट to be unarmed ; he was सुनाया मुर्दे the अगला morning at Highland हॉस्पिटल in ओकलैंड.
The कार्यक्रम were captured on अनेक डिजिटल video और कोशिका फोन कैमरे.
the फुटेज थी disseminated to मीडिया आउटलेट और to विभिन्न वेबसाइटों, where it थी watched लाखो of times.
the following days saw दोनो शांतिपूर्ण और violent विरोध.
The शूटिंग रै been variously labeled an involuntary manslaughter और a summary execution.
on जनवरी 13, Alameda County prosecutors चार्ज Mehserle साथ murder लिये the shooting.
He resigned his स्थिति और pleaded नहीं guilty.
The trial began on June 10, 2010.
माइकल rains, Mehserle 's criminal defense attorney, argued कि Mehserle mistakenly शॉट ग्रान्ट with उसके पिस्टल, intending to उपयोग his तासीर जब he saw ग्रान्ट reaching for उसके waistband.
pretrial filings argue कि his client did नहीं कमिट first-degree हत्या और पूछा a लॉस एंजिल्स न्यायधीश to instruct the जूरी to सीमा its deliberations to either second-degree murder or acquittal.
Oakland civil अधिकारों attorney जॉन Burris दायर a $ 25 लाख wrongful मौत अर्जी विरूद्ध BART on behalf of ग्रान्ट 's family.
on जुलाई 8, 2010, the jury returned इसके verdict : mehserle थी found अपराधी of involuntary manslaughter और नहीं अपराधी of second-degree हत्या and voluntary manslaughter.
Initial विरोध विरूद्ध the सत्ताधारी यहूद शांतिपूर्वक व्यवस्थित ; लूटने, आगजनी, destruction of प्रॉपर्टी, and small riots broke out after dark.
nearly 80 लोगों यहूद आखिरकार गिरफ्तार.
on Friday, जुलाई 9, 2010, the u.S. इंसाफ Department खोली a civil rights मामला विरूद्ध Mehserle ; the federal सरकारी can prosecute him independently लिये the वही अधिनियम अंतर्गत the separate अधिपति एक्सेप्शन to double jeopardy.
the विभाग of इंसाफ will be working with the u.S. attorney 's office in San फ्रांसिस्को और the एफबीआई.
On November 5, 2010, mehserle was sentenced to दो years, minus time served.
He परोसा his समय in the लॉस Angeles County Jail, occupying a निजी कोशिका away इससे other बंदियों.
He was released on जून 13, 2011 and is अभी on पैरोल.
प्रमुख प्रतिनिधि of the हार्लेम पुनर्जागरण.
The Harlem पुनर्जागरण थी a सांस्कृतिक movement कि spanned the 1920s.
at the समय, it was ज्ञात as the `` नई Negro गति '', नामित बाद the 1925 anthology by alain locke.
हालांकि it was केन्द्रित in the Harlem neighborhood of नई यॉर्क नगर, many french-speaking ब्लैक writers from African and Caribbean colonies जो जिया in Paris यहूद also influenced by the Harlem Renaissance.
the Harlem Renaissance is unofficially पहचाना to have spanned from परिचय 1919 जबतक the early or mid-1930s.
Many of इसके ideas जिया on much longer.
the zenith of इस `` flowering of नीग्रो literature '', as जेम्स weldon जॉनसन पसन्दीदा to कॉल the हार्लेम पुनर्जागरण, थी लगाई between 1924 ( the year that अवसर : A जर्नल of नीग्रो Life hosted a पार्टी लिये black writers जहाँ अनेक श्वेत publishers यहूद in उपस्थिति ) and 1929 ( the year of the भण्डार market क्रैश और the शुरूआत of the ग्रेट अवसाद ).
अफ़्रीकी राज्य between 500 BCE और 1500 CE
obelisk at टेम्पल of Luxor, मिश्र.
c. 1200 bce.
African knight of Baguirmi in पूरा padded armour सूट.
The इतिहास of अफ़्रीकी begins with the prehistory of Africa और the emergence of Homo sapiens in ईस्ट Africa, continuing into the उपस्थित as a patchwork of विविध and politically विकासशील स्वदेश states.
Some जल्दी evidence of agriculture in अफ़्रीकी dates from 16,000 bce, और metallurgy इससे परिचय 4000 BCE.
the recorded इतिहास of जल्दी सभ्यता arose in Egypt, और later in नुबिया, the मग़रिब और the सींग of Africa.
दौरान the Middle आयु, Islam spread through the regions.
Crossing the मग़रिब and the सहेल, a major center of मुस्लिम संस्कृति थी Timbuktu.
Some notable pre-colonial राज्य और समाजों in अफ़्रीकी शामिल the Nok culture, माली Empire, ashanti Empire, किंगडम of Mapungubwe, Kingdom of ज्या, Kingdom of saloum, किंगडम of Baol, किंगडम of ज़िम्बाब्वे, किंगडम of Kongo, प्राचीन कार्थेज, Numidia, mauretania, the Aksumite साम्राज्य, the ajuuraan राज्य and the Adal Sultanate.
From the लेट 15th सदी, Europeans और arabs took स्लेव इससे वेस्ट, सेंट्रल और southeast Africa overseas in the अफ़्रीकी स्लेव व्यापार.
यूरोपीय colonization of अफ़्रीकी विकसित rapidly in the Scramble लिये Africa of the late 19th और जल्दी 20th centuries.
following struggles for स्वतंत्रता in अनेक भाग of the महाद्वीप, as well as a weakened यूरोपीय बाद the Second World War ; decolonization took प्लेस.
Africa 's इतिहास has been चुनौतीपूर्ण लिये शोधकर्ताओं in the फ़ील्ड of African studies क्युकी of the किल्लत of written sources in large भाग of sub-Saharan अफ़्रीकी.
Scholarly techniques such as the रिकॉर्डिंग of मौखिक इतिहास, ऐतिहासिक भाषाविज्ञान, पुरातत्व and आनुवंशिकी have महरूम crucial.
Curry फोली थी the first खिलाड़ी in Major लीग Baseball इतिहास to hit लिये the cycle.
In baseball, hitting लिये the साईकिल is the accomplishment of एक batter hitting a सिंगल, a दोगुना, a ट्रिपल, और a घर run in the same game.
Collecting the हिट्स in कि order is known as a `` natural साईकिल ''.
Cycles हैं uncommon in Major लीग Baseball ( एमएलबी ), और have occurred 294 टाइम्स चूंकि the first by Curry Foley in 1882.
the cycle is roughly as common as a no-hitter ( 279 आवृत्ति in एमएलबी इतिहास ) ; it रै महरूम called `` one of the rarest '' और `` सबसे मुश्किल feats '' in baseball.
Based on 2009 अप्रिय स्तर, the संभाव्यता of an average एमएलबी खिलाड़ी hitting लिये a cycle against an औसत team in a खेल is approximately 0.00590 % ; this corresponds to परिचय 2.5 cycles in a 162-game ऋतु साथ 30 टीमों.
in अन्य baseball leagues, the साईकिल is हासिल less frequently.
through सितंबर 4, 2008, 62 players in Nippon Professional बेसबॉल ( npb ), the top-level baseball संगठन in जापानी, have hit for the cycle, the most हाल होने michihiro ogasawara.
Two खिलाड़ी have hit for the साईकिल on the same day एकबार in NPB इतिहास ; this has occurred twice in एमएलबी इतिहास.
One npb खिलाड़ी has भी hit for the साईकिल in an NPB all-star game.
No खिलाड़ी रै कभी hit लिये the cycle in the MLB all-star खेल or the postseason.
The main slave रूट in मध्यकालीन अफ़्रीकी.
This आलेख discusses प्रणालियों, इतिहास, और प्रभाव of गुलामी within Africa.
See अरब स्लेव व्यापार, अटलांटिक स्लेव व्यापार, Maafa, and गुलामी in समकालीन अफ़्रीकी for other चर्चाएँ.
`` Slave transport in अफ़्रीकी ''.
Europeans प्रायः किया नहीं डालें the interior regions.
गुलामी in Africa रै existed throughout the continent लिये अनेक सदियां, और continues in the current दिन.
प्रणालियों of servitude and slavery यहूद common in many भाग of the continent, as they were in much of the ancient world.
in most अफ़्रीकी समाजों where slavery थी प्रचलित, the enslaved people यहूद largely treated as indentured बन्दों और नहीं treated as chattel स्लेव.
When the अरब स्लेव trade and अटलांटिक slave व्यापार began, अनेक of the लोकल slave systems बदला and began supplying captives लिये slave बाज़ार outside of Africa.
गुलामी in ऐतिहासिक अफ़्रीकी थी practiced in अनेक अलग फ़ॉर्म and कुछ of these do नहीं clearly अनुरूप the definitions of slavery elsewhere in the संसार.
कर्ज़ slavery, enslavement of युद्ध captives, सैन्य slavery, and criminal गुलामी यहूद सब practiced in विभिन्न भाग of Africa.
हालांकि वहीँ था महरूम कुछ trans-Saharan trade from the interior of sub-saharan Africa to अन्य regions, slavery was a small भाग of the economic life of अनेक समाजों in अफ़्रीकी जबतक the परिचय of transcontinental स्लेव ट्रेड ( अरब and अटलांटिक ).
Slave practices यहूद again transformed साथ European colonization of अफ़्रीकी और the औपचारिक abolition of slavery in the जल्दी 1900s.
Windows Task मैनेजर is a कार्य मैनेजर or System monitor अनुप्रयोग included साथ the Microsoft खिड़कियाँ NT परिवार of operating systems कि provides limited सूचना about computer performance और running अनुप्रयोग, प्रक्रियाओं और CPU usage, कमिट चार्ज और memory सूचना, network कार्यकलाप और आंकडे, logged-in उपयोक्ता, and प्रणाली सेवाएं ( और as प्रायः is the case साथ तन्त्र tools provided by Microsoft for Windows, 3rd पार्टी तन्त्र is available जिससे भरता the requirements more thoroughly, e.g, `` Process एक्सप्लोरर '', `` विस्तारित कार्य मैनेजर '', `` Anvir कार्य मैनेजर '', `` प्रक्रम हैकर '', और `` प्रणाली एक्सप्लोरर '' ).
the कार्य मैनेजर can भी be प्रयुक्त to set process प्राथमिकताएं, प्रोसेसर affinity, forcibly terminate प्रक्रियाओं, and shut down, restart, hibernate or log बंद इससे खिड़कियाँ.
खिड़कियाँ कार्य Manager थी introduced साथ खिड़कियाँ nt 4.0.
पिछला संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ NT included the कार्य List अनुप्रयोग, which था far कम features.
The कार्य list थी capable of लिस्टिंग फिलहाल running प्रक्रियाओं और हत्या उन्हें, or बनाना a नई प्रक्रम.
in खिड़कियाँ XP तभी, a shutdown मेनू is भी present कि allows अभिगम to standby, Hibernate, फेरे बंद, Restart, log बंद और Switch उपयोक्ता.
पहले versions of Microsoft खिड़कियाँ ( microsoft खिड़कियाँ 3.x, Windows 95, खिड़कियाँ 98 ) था a कार्यक्रम known as कार्य to display the programs फिलहाल running.
This संचिका थी executed by running the taskman.exe file इससे the C : \खिड़कीs directory.
The troop is an american-canadian live-action, सिंगल कैमरा कॉमेडी -adventure television श्रेणी परिचय a trio of teenagers जो लड़ो और कैप्चर monsters और other अलौकिक phenomena कि invade the fictional town of Lakewood.
निर्मित और कार्यपालिका उत्पादित by अधिकतम burnett, Greg Coolidge and Chris मॉर्गन, the series premiered on Nickelodeon on सितंबर 18, 2009.
the second ऋतु premiered on जून 25, 2011 and Nickelodeon रद्द the series midway through it 's दूसरी ऋतु.
the remaining एपीसोड of season 2 were aired on nicktoons मगर the पिछला 3..
Sparsely आबादी in संबंध to इसके area, the लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of the कांगो ( drc ) is home to a vast संभावित of प्राकृतिक resources और खनिज wealth, its untapped जमा of कच्चा खनिज हैं estimated to be लायक in excess of US $ 24 खरब, yet the अर्थव्यवस्था of the drc has declined drastically since the mid-1980s.
At the समय of इसके स्वतंत्रता in 1960, drc थी the दूसरी most industrialized देश in Africa बाद दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी ; it boasted a thriving खनन sector और इसके कृषि सेक्टर थी अपेक्षाकृत उत्पादक.
if the viewer stares at इस चित्र लिये 20–60 सेकेंड और stares at a white object, a ऋणात्मक afterimage होगा appear ( in इस मामला, it will be क्यान on magenta ).
This can also be हासिल by the viewer closing his/her eyes और tilting their सिर up.
An afterimage or ghost image or image burn-in is an ऑप्टिकल भ्रम कि refers to an चित्र continuing to appear in एक 's vision after the एक्सपोज़र to the असली चित्र has ceased.
One of the most आम afterimages is the उज्जवल glow कि seems to फ्लैश पहले एक 's eyes बाद looking into a लाइट सोर्स for a few seconds.
closing the नजर can सहायता achieve a better भाव of the रंग in its अपना पहलू.
Afterimages आइये in दो फ़ॉर्म, ऋणात्मक ( inverted ) and धनात्मक ( retaining असली रंग ).
the प्रक्रम behind positive afterimages is unknown, though विचार to be सम्बन्धित to neural अनुकूलन.
on the other हाथ, ऋणात्मक afterimages are a retinal घटना और are खूब समझा.
खोया is an American सीरियल नाटक television श्रेणी that premiered on सितंबर 22, 2004 on the अमरीकी Broadcasting कम्पनी ( एबीसी ).
the श्रेणी थी created by J. J. abrams और डैमन Lindelof, based upon an असली पायलट script titled nowhere लिखा by जेफरी Lieber.
छह सीज़न of the दिखाएँ aired, in addition to numerous काटें shows to पूर्वावलोकन previous episodes.
ABC घोषित that खोया would end after छह सीज़न, having produced a कुल of 121 एपीसोड.
the श्रेणी फ़ॉलो the पास्ट, उपस्थित, and भविष्य अनुभव ( s ) of the survivors of a plane क्रैश on a passenger जेट, Oceanic Flight 815, उड़ती इससे Sydney to लॉस एंजिल्स बाद it क्रैश on a tropical द्वीप in the दक्षिण प्रशांत.
The series also includes stories of the जीवनदान of लोगों already जीना on the द्वीप — वे include the `` अन्य ``, जो initially antagonize the survivors, as खूब as a group of लोगों who arrive on the freighter Kahana.
प्रत्येक एपीसोड typically सुविधाएँ action on the द्वीप as well as a secondary storyline इससे another पाइंट in a character 's life.
ऋतु 6 सुविधाएँ a detailing of the जीवनदान of the survivors in a अलग वास्तविकता, as if the उड़ान had never क्रैश.
in the following सूची, the term `` प्रदर्शित अक्षर ( s ) '' refers to the अक्षर or वर्ण जो हैं featured in the द्वितीयक कथानक of each एपीसोड.
`` No.
in series '' refers to the एपीसोड 's क्रमांक in the overall श्रेणी, whereas `` no.
in ऋतु '' refers to the एपीसोड 's क्रमांक in each particular ऋतु.
`` u.S. दर्शक ( million ) '' refers to the क्रमांक of अमेरिकी in millions जो देखी the एपीसोड सजीव.
A कुल of 121 एपीसोड of Lost were उत्पादित, the last of जिससे aired on may 23, 2010.
All सीज़न are उपलब्धियाँ on DVD in Regions 1–4 और on blu-ray in regions a and B.
Flat feet ( also called pes planus or fallen arches ) is a औपचारिक reference to a चिकित्सा condition in which the मेहराब of the foot collapses, साथ the संपूर्ण एकमात्र of the पैर coming into complete or near-complete contact साथ the ground.
in some individuals ( an अनुमानित 20–30 % of the सामान्य जनसांख्यिकी ) the मेहराब बस never develops in one foot ( unilaterally ) or दोनो फीट ( bilaterally ).
तीन studies ( देखिए citations below in सैन्य section ) of सैन्य रंगरूटों have दिखाया no प्रमाण of बाद increased चोट, or पैर problems, due to चपटा फीट, in a जनसांख्यिकी of लोगों who पहुँचें सैन्य service आयु बगैर prior पैर समस्याएं.
However, ये अध्ययन can not be used to judge संभावित future damage इससे this condition when diagnosed at younger आयु.
वे भी can not be लागू to persons जिनकी चपटा फीट are associated with foot symptoms, or certain लक्षण in other parts of the देह ( ऐसे as the लेग or वापस ) possibly referable to the foot.
पीढी x, commonly abbreviated to gen X, is the पीढी born after the पश्चिमी post-world War ii baby बूम.
demographers, इतिहासकारों और commentators उपयोग शुरूआत birth dates इससे the early 1960s to the जल्दी 1980s.
The पद was popularized by डगलस coupland 's 1991 अनोखा पीढी X : किस्से लिये an त्वरित संस्कृति.
पहले कि, it had महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये various subcultures or countercultures बाद the 1950s.
Pressure छाले, भी known as decubitus ulcers or bedsores, हैं localized injuries to the स्किन and/or underlying tissue प्रायः over a bony prominence, as a result of दबाव, or pressure in combination साथ shear and/or घर्षण.
Most commonly इस होगा be the sacrum, coccyx, एड़ियों or the hips, लकिन अन्य साइट ऐसे as the elbows, knees, ankles or the वापस of the cranium can be affected.
The cause of दबाव ulcers is दबाव लागू to soft tissue so कि blood flow to the नरम tissue is completely or partially obstructed.
shear is भी a कारण ; shear खींचता on blood vessels that feed the स्किन.
दबाव छाले सबसे commonly develop in व्यक्तियों who are नहीं moving परिचय or are confined to wheelchairs.
it is widely believed कि अन्य factors can influence the सहिष्णुता of skin for दबाव and shear thereby increasing the risk of दबाव ulcer विकास.
ये factors are protein-calorie malnutrition, microclimate ( स्किन wetness caused by sweating or incontinence ), diseases कि reduce blood flow to the स्किन, ऐसे as arteriosclerosis or रोगों कि reduce the अहसास in the स्किन, such as paralysis or न्यूरोपैथी.
the healing of pressure छाले may be slowed by the आयु of the व्यक्ति, medical conditions ( ऐसे as arteriosclerosis, मधुमेह or संक्रमण ), धूम्रपान or medications such as antiinflammatory दवाएँ.
हालांकि प्रायः prevented और treatable if मिला जल्दी, pressure छाले can be बहुत मुश्किल to prevent in critically ill मरीजों, frail बड़ो, wheelchair उपयोक्ता ( विशेषकर जहाँ स्पाइनल injury is शामिल ) and terminally बीमार patients.
प्राथमिक रोकथाम is to redistribute pressure by turning the patient regularly.
The लाभ of turning to avoid further sores is खूब documented since at तनिक the 19th century.
in addition to turning और re-positioning the patient in bed or व्हीलचेयर, eating a संतुलित आहार साथ adequate प्रोटीन and keeping the स्किन फ़्री from exposure to मूत्र और स्टूल is बहुत important.
the व्यापकता of दबाव ulcers in hospital जमावट is high, लकिन सुधार are होने बना.
according to the 2010 ipup ( International Pressure अल्सर व्यापकता सर्वेक्षण ) conducted in Canada, वहीँ was a significant decrease in the overall facility-acquired व्यापकता of pressure छाले इससे 2009-2010.
छाले यहूद सबसे commonly पहचाना at the sacral/coccyx अल्सर स्थान ; however, एड़ी ulcers were the most common facility-acquired स्थान in the survey.
overboard is a 1987 American रोमांटिक comedy फिल्मी अभिनीत Goldie hawn और कर्ट रसेल.
it थी directed by Garry मार्शल, उत्पादित by roddy mcdowell, and loosely प्रेरित by the 1974 Italian फिल्मी Swept Away.
in फेरे, overboard was adapted into the 2006 दक्षिण कोरियाई टेलीविज़न श्रेणी, युगल or ट्रबल.
Green खाड़ी is a नगर in और the काउंटी सीट of भूरा काउंटी in the u.S. state of विस्कॉन्सिन, स्तिथ at the head of ग्रीन खाड़ी, a sub-basin of झील मिशिगन, at the mouth of the फॉक्स River.
It रै an उन्नयन of ऊपर sea स्तर and is स्तिथ उत्तर of Milwaukee.
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 104,057 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
it is the third-largest city in the राज्य of विस्कॉन्सिन, बाद मिल्वौकी and Madison.
it is भी the third-largest नगर on the west shore of Lake मिशिगन, बाद शिकागो और मिल्वौकी.
Green Bay is home to the Green खाड़ी Packers of the National फ़ुटबॉल League, making it by far the smallest महानगर क्षेत्रफल in the USA to मेजबान a प्रमुख professional खेल franchise.
Green Bay is the प्रिंसिपल city of the ग्रीन खाड़ी Metropolitan सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल, जिससे कवर Brown, kewaunee, और oconto Counties और था a संयुक्त population of 282,599 at the 2000 census.
ग्रीन खाड़ी is an औद्योगिक city with अनेक meatpacking और paper plants, और a बंदरगाहों on Green खाड़ी, an भुजा of झील Michigan कि स्थानीय call the खाड़ी of ग्रीन Bay, to avoid conflating it with the eponymous नगर.
it is घर to the National रेलरोड संग्रहालय ; the Neville पब्लिक संग्रहालय, साथ प्रदर्शनियों of आर्ट, इतिहास, and विज्ञान ; और the University of wisconsin–green Bay.
Luteinizing हार्मोन ( LH, also known as lutropin और sometimes lutrophin ) is a हार्मोन produced by gonadotroph cells in the अग्रवर्ती pituitary gland.
In females, an acute rise of lh ( `` lh surge '' ) triggers ovulation और development of the corpus luteum.
In males, जहाँ lh था भी been पुकारा अंतरालीय cell-stimulating हार्मोन ( icsh ), it stimulates Leydig cell उत्पादन of टेस्टोस्टेरोन.
it acts synergistically with fsh.
सेलिना quintanilla-pérez ( अप्रैल 16, 1971 – कूच 31, 1995 ), ज्ञात बस as सेलिना, थी an अमरीकी singer-songwriter.
वो थी नामित the `` top लैटिन artist of the '90s '' और `` बेहतरीन selling Latin कलाकार of the दशक '' by Billboard for her fourteen top-ten singles in the Top लैटिन गीतों chart, including सात number-one hits.
सेलिना had the most कामयाब singles of 1994 और 1995, `` Amor Prohibido `` and `` no me Queda Más ``.
She was पुकारा `` The महारानी of Tejano music `` और the Mexican equivalent of Madonna.
सेलिना released her पहला एल्बम, सेलिना y लॉस dinos, at the age of बारह.
वो जीती Female vocalist of the Year at the 1987 tejano म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार and उतरा a recording contract with EMI a few years later.
उसके कीर्ति grew throughout the early 1990s, especially in spanish-speaking देशों, और वो had begun recording in अंग्रेज़ी as well.
सेलिना was murdered at the आयु of 23 on March 31, 1995 by Yolanda saldívar, the former president of उसके प्रशंसक क्लबों.
on अप्रैल 12, 1995, दो सप्ताह बाद उसके death, जार्ज W. बुश, governor of टेक्सास at the time, declared उसके birthday `` Selena Day '' in Texas.
warner Bros. उत्पादित सेलिना, a फिल्मी based on उसके life अभिनीत जेनिफर लोपेज़, in 1997.
Selena 's जीवन was also the आधार of the musical Selena Forever अभिनीत Veronica vazquez as सेलिना.
In June 2006 Selena थी commemorated साथ a life-sized bronze statue ( mirador de la flor in कॉर्पस christi, टेक्सास ) और a Selena संग्रहालय खोली there.
वो has sold over 60 लाख albums worldwide, making उसके one of the best-selling कलाकारों of सब समय.
वो is also the only मादा artist to have five albums in u.s. Billboard 200 at the same समय.
जर्मनी stahlhelm from World युद्ध II
Insignia of the Bolivian फौज colorados regiment, प्रर्दशित a stahlhelm and दो crossed bayonets
stahlhelm ( बहुवचन, stahlhelme ) is German for `` steel हेल्मेट ''.
The इम्पीरियल German फौज began to बदलें the traditional boiled-leather pickelhaube ( spiked कॉम्बैट हेल्मेट ) with the stahlhelm दौरान World युद्ध i in 1916.
The term Stahlhelm refers both to a जेनेरिक स्टील helmet, and more specifically to the distinctive ( and iconic ) German design.
The stahlhelm, साथ इसके distinctive `` coal scuttle `` shape, was an instantly recognizable icon for सैन्य imagery and became a आम तत्व of सैन्य प्रचार on दोनो sides, बस जैसे the Pickelhaube before it.
Its name was भी प्रयुक्त by the Stahlhelm, a अर्धसैनिक राष्ट्रवादी संगठन स्थापित at the समाप्त of 1918.
glow-in-the-dark may refer to:
Bioluminescence, the production और emission of light by a living organism
chemiluminescence, is the emission of light ( संदीप्ति ) without emission of ऊष्मा
Phosphorescence, a specific प्रकार of photoluminescence सम्बन्धित to प्रतिदीप्ति
radioluminescence, उत्पादन of luminescence in a सामग्री by the bombardment of ionizing विकिरण
glow in the Dark Tour, a 2008 concert दौरे by Kanye West
फ्रैंकफर्ट विमानक्षेत्र serves as a hub नगर for लुफ़्थान्सा and receives फ़्लाइट इससे स्टार Alliance carriers.
Airline hubs are airports ranked as विशाल, medium, छोटी, and non-hubs as एक of the FAA विमानक्षेत्र श्रेणी which are re-evaluated every year आधारित on क्रमांक of वाणिज्यिक यात्री.
the अधिक common लकिन अनौपचारिक use लिये the phrase airline hub is an airport that an airline उपयोग as a transfer पाइंट to get passengers to उनके intended destination.
it is part of a हब और spoke model, जहाँ travelers चलती between एयरपोर्ट not परोसा by direct flights change planes en रूट to उनके destinations.
इस is as opposed to the पाइंट to पाइंट model.
अनेक hubs of the airlines are also situated at एयरपोर्ट in the शहरों of the respective head कार्यालयों.
Some एयरलाइंस may उपयोग only a single हब, while अन्य airlines उपयोग अनेक hubs.
hubs are प्रयुक्त लिये both यात्री flights as well as cargo फ़्लाइट.
Many airlines भी उपयोग फ़ोकस cities, which फलन much the वही as hubs.
Airlines may भी उपयोग secondary hubs, a non-technical पद for large फ़ोकस शहरों.
A हब in the मध्य of a रूट is more effective than at either end as connecting ट्रैफ़िक more easily fills the प्लेन - passengers prefer a one-stop ( two-leg ) रूट over a two-stop ( three-leg ) रूट.
खोखला Lacedaemon.
Site of the Menelaion, the shrine to हेलेन और Menelaus constructed anciently in the कांस्य आयु नगर that stood on the hill of therapne on the बाएँ बैंको of the eurotas नदी overlooking the भविष्य site of Dorian स्पार्टा.
आरपार the valley the successive ridges of Mount Taygetus हैं in evidence.
स्पार्टा ( doric Greek : ; अटारी यूनानी : ), or lacedaemon, थी a prominent city-state in प्राचीन Greece, situated on the banks of the eurotas River in laconia, in south-eastern Peloponnese.
it emerged as a political एंटिटी around the 10th century BC, when the आक्रमणकारी dorians subjugated the लोकल, non-Dorian population.
Around 650 bc, it रोज़ to become the dominant military land-power in ancient यूनानियों.
दिए its सैन्य pre-eminence, स्पार्टा was recognized as the overall leader of the संयुक्त यूनानी शक्तियां दौरान the greco-persian Wars.
between 431 और 404 bc, स्पार्टा थी the principal दुश्मन of एथेंस दौरान the Peloponnesian युद्ध, इससे which it emerged विजयी, though at ग्रेट cost.
स्पार्टा 's शिकस्त by thebes in the बैटल of leuctra in 371 BC ended Sparta 's prominent role in यूनानियों.
However, it कायम its राजनैतिक independence until the रोमन conquest of यूनानियों in 146 bc.
It then underwent a long period of मनाही, विशेषकर in the Middle आयु, जब many spartans moved to सजीव in mystras.
Modern Sparta is the capital of the यूनानी क्षेत्रीय ईकाई of laconia and a बीच for the processing of goods such as citrus और olives.
Sparta थी अद्वितीय in ancient यूनानियों लिये its social system and संविधान, जिससे completely focused on सैन्य प्रशिक्षण और excellence.
इसके निवासियों were वर्गीकृत as Spartiates ( Spartan नागरिकों, who enjoyed full अधिकारों ), Mothakes ( non-Spartan फ़्री मेन उठाया as spartans ), perioikoi ( freedmen ), और Helots ( state-owned serfs, enslaved non-spartan local population ).
Spartiates underwent the कठोर agoge training और शिक्षा regimen, and spartan phalanges were widely माना to be among the बेहतरीन in बैटल.
spartan महिलाओं enjoyed considerably अधिक rights और समता to men than elsewhere in the classical संसार.
Sparta थी the विषय of fascination in its अपना day, as खूब as in the वेस्ट following the पुनरुद्धार of classical learning.
इस प्रेम or admiration of स्पार्टा is ज्ञात as Laconism or laconophilia.
Fantasy फ़ुटबॉल is an इंटरैक्टिव प्रतियोगिता in जिससे users compete against each other as general प्रबंधक of आभासी teams.
the खिलाड़ी that an व्यक्तिगत is समर्थ to मैनेज हैं professional American football खिलाड़ी in the नेशनल Football लीग.
The अलग actions लोगों are able to मेक are drafting, trading, adding or छोड़ने खिलाड़ी, and बदलना rosters.
due to the विकास of the Internet, काल्पनिक फ़ुटबॉल रै vastly increased in popularity, विशेषकर because काल्पनिक फ़ुटबॉल प्रदाताओं ऐसे as ईएसपीएन, याहू, CBS, और the एनएफएल itself are समर्थ to रखना track of आंकडे entirely ऑनलाइन, eliminating the need to जाँच box scores और अखबारों regularly to रखना track of players.
सबसे leagues have a सिंगल सप्ताह चैंपियनशिप in सप्ताह 16 of the एनएफएल season.
संसार population estimates from 1800 to 2100, based on UN 2010 projections ( रेड, orange, green ) और us जनसांख्यिकी Bureau ऐतिहासिक estimates ( ब्लैक ).
वास्तविक अंकित जनसांख्यिकी आंकड़े are in blue.
According to the उच्चतम अनुमान, the संसार जनसांख्यिकी may rise to 16 billion by 2100 ; according to the न्यूनतम अनुमान, it may decline to 6 अरब.
the world population is the कुल number of जीना humans on धरती.
as of आज, it is अनुमानित to क्रमांक अरब by the United राज्य जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो ( uscb ).
the USCB estimates कि the संसार जनसांख्यिकी exceeded 7 अरब on कूच 12, 2012.
according to a पृथक अनुमान by the संयुक्त राष्ट्र जनसांख्यिकी निधि, it पहुँचे this milestone on अक्तूबर 31, 2011.
the world population has experienced continuous विकास चूंकि the समाप्त of the ग्रेट Famine और the ब्लैक Death in 1350, जब it stood at around 370 लाख.
the उच्चतम rates of विकास – वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी increases above 1.8 % प्रति year – were देखी briefly दौरान the 1950s, and for a longer period दौरान the 1960s and 1970s.
the growth रेट peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, and had अस्वीकृत to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total सालाना births यहूद highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million, and हैं अभी अपेक्षित to remain essentially constant at उनके 2011 स्तर of 134 million, जबकि deaths क्रमांक 56 लाख प्रति साल, और हैं अपेक्षित to बढ़ाएँ to 80 लाख per साल by 2040.
वर्तमान projections show a continued increase in जनसांख्यिकी in the near भविष्य ( but a स्थिर मनाही in the population growth rate ), with the global जनसांख्यिकी अपेक्षित to reach between 7.5 और 10.5 billion by 2050.
विभिन्न longer-term estimates भविष्यवाणी further growth, stagnation, or even overall मनाही in the global जनसांख्यिकी by 2150.
कुछ विश्लेषकों have questioned the स्थिरता of further संसार population growth, citing the growing pressures on the पर्यावरण, global खाना आपूर्तियाँ, and उर्जा संसाधन.
skeletal मांसपेशियां होमो sapiens
इस is a table of मांसपेशियां of the इंसान anatomy.
वहीँ हैं approximately 642 skeletal muscles भीतर the typical इंसान, और लगभग every मांसपेशी constitutes एक भाग of a जोड़ी of एकसमान bilateral muscles, found on दोनो पहलू, resulting in approximately 320 pairs of मांसपेशियां, as प्रस्तुत in इस आलेख.
Nevertheless, the सटीक क्रमांक is मुश्किल to define because अलग स्त्रोत समूह muscles differently, e.g. regarding कया is पारिभाषित as अलग भाग of a single मांसपेशी or as अनेक मांसपेशियां.
उदाहरण range इससे 640 to 850.
the मांसपेशियां of the इंसान body can be categorized into a number of समूह जिससे include मांसपेशियां relating to the सिर और गर्दन, मांसपेशियां of the धड़ or trunk, muscles of the अपर limbs, and muscles of the निम्नतर limbs.
the कार्रवाई refers to the कार्रवाई of प्रत्येक मांसपेशी from the standard anatomical स्थिति.
In अन्य positions, अन्य क्रियाएँ may be performed.
A सुनहरा बार is a मात्रा of refined metallic gold of any shape कि is made by a bar producer meeting मानक शर्तें of manufacture, labeling, and रिकार्ड keeping.
larger सुनहरा bars that are produced by pouring the molten metal into molds हैं पुकारा पिंडों.
छोटी bars may be manufactured by minting or stamping इससे appropriately लिपटे सुनहरा चादरें.
the मानक सुनहरा बार आयोजित as gold reserves by central banks और traded among bullion dealers is the 400-troy-ounce ( 12.4 kg or 438.9 औंस ) Good डिलीवरी gold बार.
the kilobar, which is to say 1000 गामा in द्रव्यमान, is the bar कि is more manageable and is प्रयुक्त extensively लिये व्यापार और निवेश.
the premium on ये bars when traded is very कम over the स्पॉट मान of the सुनहरा बनाना it आदर्श लिये छोटी transfers between बैंको और व्यापारियों.
Most kilobars are चपटा, although कुछ investors, particularly in Europe, prefer the ईंटों आकार.
elisha आर्चिबाल्ड `` Archie '' मैनिंग iii ( born May 19, 1949 ) is a पूर्व American फ़ुटबॉल quarterback in the National फ़ुटबॉल League, playing for the नई Orleans Saints from 1971 to 1982, तब for the Houston ऑइलर्स और मिनेसोटा Vikings.
He is the पिता of current डेनवर broncos quarterback peyton Manning, current New यॉर्क दिग्गज starting quarterback एली मैनिंग, और पूर्व ओले मिस receiver कूपर मैनिंग.
वकालत is a political प्रक्रम by an individual or समूह which aims to influence public-policy and संसाधन आवंटन निर्णय within political, आर्थिक, and सोशल प्रणालियों and institutions.
वकालत can शामिल अनेक क्रियाएँ कि a व्यक्ति or संगठन undertakes including मीडिया अभियान, पब्लिक बोलना, commissioning और publishing शोध or पोल or the दाखिल of an amicus brief.
lobbying ( often by लॉबी समूह ) is a रूप of वकालत where a सीधा दृष्टिकोण is made to विधायक on an समस्या which plays a significant भूमिका in modern राजनीती.
शोध is beginning to explore how वकालत groups in the U.S. और कनाडा are using social मीडिया to सुकर नागरिक सगाई और collective कार्रवाई.
The ध्वज of मैक्सिको ( स्पेनी : bandera de México ) is a लंबवत तिरंगा of ग्रीन, white, और रेड साथ the national कोट of बाहें चार्ज in the center of the white stripe.
जबकि the अर्थ of the रंगों रै बदला over समय, these तीन colors were adopted by Mexico following स्वतंत्रता इससे स्पेन दौरान the देश 's War of स्वतंत्रता, और subsequent पहला मैक्सिकन साम्राज्य.
The वर्तमान flag थी adopted in 1968, लकिन the overall डिज़ाइन रै been प्रयुक्त since 1821, जब the पहला National ध्वज थी निर्मित.
The वर्तमान विधि of नेशनल symbols, Law on the National Arms, Flag, और गान, कि governs the उपयोग of the national flag रै महरूम in प्लेस since 1984.
रेड, white, and green हैं the रंगों of the national मुक्ति फौज in Mexico.
The सेंट्रल emblem is the एज़टेक pictogram for Tenochtitlan ( अभी मैक्सिको नगर ), the center of उनके साम्राज्य.
It recalls the legend that प्रेरित the Aztecs to settle on what थी originally a lake-island.
The रूप of the कोट of arms was most recently revised in 1968.
a रिबन in the national रंगों is at the नीचे of the coat of बाहें.
Throughout इतिहास, the ध्वज has changed चार times, as the design of the कोट of बाहें और the length-width ratios of the ध्वज have महरूम modified.
however, the coat of बाहें has था the वही features throughout : an त्रिभुज, पकड़कर a serpent in इसके talon, is perched on top of a prickly pear cactus ; the cactus is situated on a चट्टान कि rises ऊपर a lake.
the coat of बाहें is निकला इससे an एज़टेक legend कि उनके gods बताई उन्हें to निर्माण a city जहाँ वे spot an त्रिभुज on a nopal खाने a serpent, जिससे is now मैक्सिको City.
the वर्तमान नेशनल flag, the Fourth नेशनल Flag, is भी प्रयुक्त as the मैक्सिकन नवल ensign by ships registered in मैक्सिको.
A गंतव्य विपणन संगठन or सम्मेलन और आगंतुक bureau promotes a कस्बा, नगर, प्रदेश, or देश in order to बढ़ाएँ the number of visitors.
it promotes the development and marketing of a destination, focusing on सम्मेलन बिक्री, पर्यटन marketing, और services.
Such संगठन promote आर्थिक विकास of a destination by increasing visits इससे tourists and business travelers, which generates overnight lodging लिये a गंतव्य, visits to restaurants, and खरीदारी revenues.
सम्मेलन and visitor bureaus are the most महत्वपूर्ण tourism विपणन organizations in उनके संबंधित पर्यटक गंतव्यों, as they हैं सीधे responsible for विपणन the गंतव्य ब्रांड through travel और पर्यटन `` product जागरूकता '' to visitors.
DMOs उपज अरबों of डॉलर in direct और अप्रत्यक्ष revenue और कर लिये their गंतव्यों ' economies with उनके विपणन and sales विशेषज्ञता.
गंतव्य विपणन organizations हैं प्रायः called travel, सम्मेलन, विज़िटर, or पर्यटन bureaux, स्वागत centers, सूचना centers और अधिक.
regardless of the नाम, ये संगठन प्रस्ताव अनेक सेवाएं to the traveling public.
The नीलगाय or wapiti ( cervus canadensis ) is एक of the largest प्रजाति of हिरण in the संसार, और एक of the largest land mammals in उत्तर अमेरिका और eastern एशिया.
It was long believed to be a subspecies of the यूरोपीय रेड हिरण ( cervus elaphus ), but प्रमाण from a 2004 पढ़ाई of the mitochondrial DNA indicates that the दो हैं पृथक species.
इस animal should नहीं be confused with the larger मूस ( alces alces ), to which the नाम `` elk '' applies in Eurasia.
Apart इससे the moose, the only other सदस्य of the deer family to प्रतिद्वंद्वी the नीलगाय in size is the दक्षिण Asian sambar ( Rusa unicolor ).
नीलगाय दायरा in forest and forest-edge आवास, feeding on grasses, पौधे, leaves, और छाल.
हालांकि देशी to North अमेरिका और eastern एशिया, वे have adapted well to देशों where they have महरूम introduced, सहित Argentina, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, and New जीलैंड.
Their ग्रेट adaptability may threaten endemic प्रजाति और ecosystems into जिससे वे have महरूम introduced.
Male elk have विशाल antlers जिससे हैं शेड प्रत्येक साल.
Males भी engage in ritualized समागम व्यवहार दौरान the rut, सहित posturing, antler कुश्ती ( sparring ), और bugling, a loud श्रेणी of vocalizations जिससे establishes दबदबा over अन्य males और attracts महिलाओं.
नीलगाय are susceptible to a क्रमांक of infectious diseases, कुछ of which can be transmitted to livestock.
प्रयत्न to eliminate infectious रोगों from elk populations, largely through vaccination, have था मिश्रित success.
कुछ संस्कृतियों आदर the elk as a आध्यात्मिक force.
In भाग of एशिया, antlers और their velvet are प्रयुक्त in परंपरागत दवाइयाँ.
नीलगाय are hunted as a game species ; the meat is leaner and उच्चतर in प्रोटीन than बीफ or मुर्गा.
The जार्ज वॉशिंगटन विश्वविद्यालयों ( gw, gwu, or George Washington ) is a व्यापक निजी, coeducational शोध विश्वविद्यालयों located in वॉशिंगटन, d.C..
It पुरस्कार प्रमाणपत्र, Bachelor डिग्री, मास्टर्स डिग्री, और PhDs across several दर्जन disciplines.
The university was चार्टर्ड by an Act of कॉंग्रेस on फ़रवरी 9, 1821 as The Columbian कॉलेज in the District of Columbia.
the lion ( पेंथेरा leo ) is one of the four big बिल्लियों in the genus पेंथेरा and a सदस्य of the परिवार Felidae.
With some males exceeding in weight, it is the second-largest जीना बिल्ली बाद the tiger.
जंगली शेर फिलहाल मौजूद in sub-saharan Africa और in एशिया ( जहाँ an endangered remnant जनसांख्यिकी resides in Gir वन नेशनल पार्क in इण्डिया ) while अन्य types of lions have disappeared इससे North Africa and दक्षिणपश्चिम एशिया in ऐतिहासिक times.
Until the late pleistocene, परिचय 10,000 years पहले, the lion थी the most फैली विशाल जमीन mammal बाद इंसानो.
वे were मिला in सबसे of अफ़्रीकी, आरपार Eurasia इससे western Europe to India, और in the Americas इससे the Yukon to पेरू.
The lion is a vulnerable species, having देखी a प्रमुख जनसांख्यिकी decline of 30–50 % over the past दो decades in its अफ़्रीकी दायरा.
शेर populations हैं untenable outside designated reserves और नेशनल पार्क.
Although the कारण of the मनाही is नहीं fully understood, आवास loss and conflicts साथ humans are फिलहाल the greatest कल्याणकारी of concern.
भीतर Africa, the West अफ़्रीकी lion जनसांख्यिकी is विशेषकर endangered.
Lions live लिये 10–14 सालो in the wild, while in captivity वे can सजीव longer than 20 years.
in the wild, males seldom सजीव longer than 10 सालो, as चोटों sustained इससे continual fighting साथ प्रतिद्वंद्वी males greatly reduce उनके आयु.
वे typically inhabit सवाना और घासभूमि, although वे may take to बुश and forest.
Lions हैं unusually सोशल compared to अन्य cats.
a pride of शेर consists of सम्बन्धित females और offspring and a छोटी क्रमांक of वयस्क males.
Groups of मादा lions typically hunt साथ, preying ज़्यादातर on विशाल ungulates.
शेर हैं apex and keystone परभक्षी, हालांकि they scavenge as opportunity allows.
जबकि शेर do नहीं typically hunt इंसानो, some have महरूम known to do so.
sleeping मुख्यतः दौरान the दिन, शेर are primarily nocturnal, although bordering on crepuscular in प्रकृति.
अत्यधिक distinctive, the male lion is easily recognised by its माने, and इसके face is one of the most widely recognised animal प्रतीकों in इंसान संस्कृति.
depictions have existed from the अपर paleolithic काल, साथ carvings and paintings इससे the lascaux और chauvet गुफाएं, through वस्तुतः सब प्राचीन और medieval संस्कृतियों where वे once occurred.
it रै been extensively चित्रित in sculptures, in paintings, on नेशनल flags, and in समकालीन films और साहित्य.
Lions have been रखा in menageries since the समय of the रोमन Empire, and have महरूम a कुंजी प्रजाति sought लिये प्रदर्शनी in zoos over the world चूंकि the लेट 18th सदी.
Zoos are cooperating worldwide in breeding कार्यक्रम for the endangered Asiatic subspecies.
in the इतिहास of video games, the seventh पीढी of consoles is the पिछला पीढी, और includes consoles released चूंकि लेट by निन्टेंडो, Microsoft, और Sony.
For home consoles, the सातवाँ पीढी began on 22 नवम्बर 2005 साथ the release of Xbox 360 and जारी साथ the रिलीज of PlayStation 3 on 11 नवम्बर 2006, और Wii on 19 नवम्बर 2006.
Each नई कंसोल introduced a नई प्रकार of breakthrough in technology.
the Xbox 360 offered games rendered natively at HD resolutions, the PlayStation 3 offered, in जोड to FHD gaming, HD movie प्लेबैक via a built-in 3D blu-ray Disc खिलाड़ी, और the वी केन्द्रित on integrating controllers with गति sensors as खूब as joysticks.
joining निन्टेंडो in the motion market, Sony released the प्लेस्टेशन Move in September 2010.
the PlayStation Move सुविधाएँ गति संवेदन gaming, similar to that of the वी.
microsoft भी joined Sony और Nintendo, साथ इसके kinect.
नापसंद the other दो प्रणालियों ( प्लेस्टेशन 3 और वी ), kinect करता not उपयोग कोई परिरक्षक of any sort and makes the उपयोक्ता the `` नियंत्रक. ''
having sold 8 million इकाई in its first 60 दिनों on the market, kinect रै claimed the गिनीज संसार रिकार्ड of होने the `` तीव्रतम selling उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स device ''.
जबकि the Xbox 360 offers तार controllers as a स्टैंडअलोन उत्पाद, सब PlayStation 3 controllers can be प्रयुक्त in तार and बेतार configurations.
starting with हैंडहेल्ड consoles, the seventh generation began on 21 November 2004 साथ the उत्तर अमरीकी परिचय of the निन्टेंडो ds as a `` third pillar '', alongside निन्टेंडो 's existing खेल लड़के Advance and GameCube consoles.
the निन्टेंडो ds ( nds ) सुविधाएँ a टच स्क्रीन and built-in माइक्रोफोन, और supports बेतार IEEE 802.11 ( wi-fi ) मानकों.
Additionally, the revised संस्करण of the nds, the dsi, features दो built in कैमरे, the क्षमता to डाउनलोड games इससे the dsi store, और a वेब ब्राउजर.
the प्लेस्टेशन पोर्टेबल, or PSP, released later the वही साल on 12 दिसम्बर 2004, followed a different पैटर्न.
it became the first हैंडहेल्ड video खेल console to उपयोग an ऑप्टिकल डिस्क format, Universal मीडिया डिस्क ( umd ), as its primary भंडार media.
सोनी भी दिया the PSP robust multi-media capability, कनेक्टिविटी with the PlayStation 3 और other PSPs, और Internet connectivity.
the निन्टेंडो DS likewise रै connectivity to the internet through the Nintendo wi-fi कनेक्शन और निन्टेंडो ds Browser, as खूब as wireless connectivity to other DS प्रणालियों और Wii consoles.
despite high sales संख्याएँ लिये दोनो consoles, प्लेस्टेशन पोर्टेबल बिक्री have consistently lagged पीछे those of the निन्टेंडो DS ; nevertheless, the PlayStation Portable रै the distinction of होने the best-selling non-nintendo हैंडहेल्ड गेमिंग system.
Sgt. pepper 's निर्जन Hearts Club बैंड ( often shortened to sgt. pepper ) is the eighth studio album by English rock band the बीटल्स.
released in जून 1967, the एल्बम शामिल songs such as `` साथ a Little सहायता from My मित्रों ``, `` लुसी in the आसमान साथ ईंट ``, and `` A दिन in the जीवन ``.
Continuing the artistic maturation seen on the band 's album Revolver ( 1966 ), Sgt. Pepper further रजि इससे the conventional pop चट्टान मुहावरा of the समय और incorporated balladry, साइकेडेलिक, म्यूज़िक hall, and symphonic प्रभाव.
During the Sgt. pepper sessions, the समूह improved upon the विशेषता of उनके music 's production while exploring प्रायोगिक रिकॉर्डिंग तकनीकों.
Producer जार्ज मार्टिन 's अभिनव approach शामिल the use of an ऑर्केस्ट्रा.
Widely acclaimed और imitated, the एल्बम cover, designed by अंग्रेज़ी पॉप कलाकारों पीटर ब्लेक and Jann Haworth, थी प्रेरित by a sketch by पॉल McCartney कि चित्रित the band posing in सामने of a कोलाज of कुछ of उनके favourite celebrities.
Sgt. pepper थी a विश्वव्यापी critical और वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी, बिता 27 सप्ताह at the शीर्ष of the uk एल्बम Chart and 15 सप्ताह at number एक on the US बिलबोर्ड 200.
a seminal कार्य in the उभरते साइकेडेलिक चट्टान style, the एल्बम was critically acclaimed upon release और won four Grammy पुरस्कार in 1968.
With an estimated 32 million copies बेची, it is one of the संसार 's best selling albums.
Sgt. pepper is माना by अनेक to be the most influential and प्रसिद्ध चट्टान एल्बम कभी, और रै been named the महानतम एल्बम of सब समय by दोनो सब Time शीर्ष 1000 एल्बम और रोलिंग स्टोन.
the temporal पालि is a प्रदेश of the दिमागी cortex that is located beneath the पार्श्ववर्ती fissure on both cerebral बांटती of the mammalian brain.
the temporal lobes हैं involved in the retention of विज़ुअल यादें, प्रसंस्करण संवेदी इनपुट, comprehending भाषा, storing new memories, emotion, और deriving meaning.
The human lungs are the अंगों of respiration in इंसानो.
Humans have दो फेफड़े, a सही lung और a बाएँ फेफड़ों.
the सही lung consists of तीन lobes जबकि the बाएँ lung is slightly छोटी consisting of only two निर्मोक ( the बाएँ lung रै a `` हृदय पायदान '' allowing स्पेस लिये the heart भीतर the chest ).
Together, the lungs contain लगभग of एयरवेज़ and 300 to 500 million alveoli, having a कुल सतह क्षेत्रफल of परिचय ( ) in वयस्कों — roughly the same क्षेत्रफल as one side of a टेनिस अदालत.
furthermore, if all of the capillaries that घेर the alveoli यहूद unwound और laid समाप्त to समाप्त, वे होता extend for about.
प्रत्येक फेफड़ों weighs, therefore making the संपूर्ण अंग about.
Human फेफड़े
the श्वासनली divides into two bronchi ( one for प्रत्येक side ) at the स्तर of t4.
इस junction is also known as the carina.
The conducting zone contains the trachea, the bronchi, the bronchioles, और the टर्मिनल bronchioles the respiratory zone contains the respiratory bronchioles, the alveolar नलिकाएं, and the alveoli.
the conducting मण्डल and the respiratory stuffers ( लकिन not the alveoli ) हैं made up of airways.
the conducting मण्डल रै no gas एक्सचेंज साथ the रक्त, और is reinforced साथ cartilage in अनुक्रम to थाम open the एयरवेज़.
the conducting मण्डल warms the एयर to और humidifies the एयर.
It also cleanses the air by निकालना अणु via cilia located on the walls of all the passageways.
The फेफड़े हैं घिरी by the पसली cage.
the respiratory zone is the साईट of gas exchange साथ रक्त.
The sympathetic बेचैन system via noradrenaline एक्टिंग on the beta receptors कल्याणकारी bronchodilation.
the parasympathetic nervous system via acetylcholine, which अधिनियमों on the M-3 muscarinic receptors, maintains the resting टोन of the bronchiolar smooth मांसपेशी.
इस कार्रवाई is सम्बन्धित, हालांकि considered distinct from bronchoconstriction.
अनेक other non-autonomic बेचैन और biochemical stimuli, सहित carbon dioxide और ऑक्सीजन, हैं भी शामिल in the विनियमन प्रक्रम.
the pleural गुहा is the संभावित स्पेस between the parietal pleura, अस्तर the inner wall of the thoracic पिंजरा, and the visceral pleura अस्तर the lungs.
the lung parenchyma is strictly प्रयुक्त to refer solely to alveolar ऊतक साथ respiratory bronchioles, alveolar नलिकाएं और टर्मिनल bronchioles.
however, it often शामिल कोई रूप of lung ऊतक, also सहित bronchioles, bronchi, blood बरतन और फेफड़ों interstitium.
the margarita is a मैक्सिकन cocktail consisting of tequila मिश्रित साथ cointreau or similar नारंगी -flavoured liqueur and लाइम or lemon रस, प्रायः परोसा with salt on the कांच रिम.
it is the most common tequila-based कॉकटेल in the United राज्य.
The drink is served shaken साथ बर्फ ( on the रॉक्स ), blended साथ बर्फ ( frozen मार्गरिटा ), or बगैर ice ( सीधा up ).
Two बोतलों of रेड बरगंडी वाइन from Gevrey-Chambertin, côtes de nuits
Burgundy is a dark red रंग संबद्ध with the बरगंडी wine of the same नाम, जिससे in फेरे is नामित after the Burgundy region of France.
the रंग burgundy is similar to अन्य shades of dark रेड ऐसे as मैरून.
जब referring to the color, `` बरगंडी '' is usually नहीं capitalized.
The पहला अंकित use of `` बरगंडी '' as a रंग name in अंग्रेज़ी was in 1881.
Grave of an unknown British soldier, मारे in 1943 दौरान the बैटल of leros.
क्युकी his identity is unknown, he is missing in action.
संगीन of an अनजान अमरीकी soldier in Oise-Aisne कब्रिस्तान.
Killed in 1917
संगीन of an अनजान छत्रसेना, killed in the बैटल of Arnhem, 1944.
Photographed in April 1945
क़ब्रों of 11 unknown British सैनिको killed दौरान World युद्ध II, in rhodes cwgc युद्ध कब्रिस्तान
Wall crypts containing remains of unknown इतालवी सैनिको मारे दौरान World युद्ध ii, in a Rhodes कब्रिस्तान
कुछ of the 72,000 names inscribed on the thiepval मेमोरियल to the Missing of the somme
क़ब्रों of अनजान French सैनिको मारे during World युद्ध एक.
प्रत्येक कंक्रीट क्रॉस has a metal प्लैक bearing the शब्द `` inconnu '' i.e. `` Unknown ''
ossuary at the gallipoli battlefield, containing the remains of 3000 unidentified फ्रेंच सैनिको who died in 1915
क़ब्रों of अनजान Eritrean ascaris killed in 1941 दौरान the बैटल of keren
Missing in कार्रवाई ( मिया ) is a casualty Category assigned under the Status of Missing to armed सेवाएं कर्मियों जो are reported लापता दौरान क्रियाशील service.
They may have been killed, wounded, become a prisoner of war, or deserted.
if मृतक, neither their remains nor grave can be positively identified.
बनने मिया has been an occupational रिस्क for सेवा personnel लिये as long as वहीँ has महरूम warfare.
कक्ष of Commerce भवन in Center.
This building is the असली jail, built along साथ the ऐतिहासिक Courthouse.
दोनो बैठना on the Town Square.
the रिओ थिएटर in Center
First बैपटिस्ट गिरिजाघर at 117 कोरा Street in Center is स्तिथ next to the शहर खण्ड.
पहला ईसाई गिरिजाघर at 124 Cora Street in बीच is one of the oldest congregations in the community.
Center is a city in शेल्बी काउंटी, टेक्सास, संयुक्त राज्य.
The जनसांख्यिकी was 5,193 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
it is the काउंटी seat of शेल्बी काउंटी.
It is named लिये इसके स्थान निकट the बीच of शेल्बी County, नहीं for इसके स्थान in Texas as it is स्तिथ near the louisiana border.
तीव्र red-eye effect in ब्लू आँखें with dilated pupil
the red-eye प्रभाव in छायाचित्र is the आम रूप of red pupils in रंग photographs of आँखें.
It occurs when using a फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक flash बहुत close to the कैमरा लेंस ( as साथ most कॉम्पैक्ट कैमरे ), in ambient कम लाइट.
the effect appears in the आँखें of humans और animals कि have tapetum lucidum.
Theatrical followspot ऑपरेटर, positioned nearly coincidentally साथ a बहुत उज्जवल लाइट और somewhat दूर इससे the अभिनेताओं, occasionally गवाह red-eye in actors on स्टेज.
The effect is नहीं visible to the rest of the audience क्युकी it is reliant on the very small angle between the followspot ऑपरेटर और the light.
The University of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, सांता बारबरा ( commonly referred to as UC सांता बारबरा or UCSB ) is a पब्लिक शोध विश्वविद्यालयों और one of the ten सामान्य campuses of the University of California प्रणाली.
The प्रमुख कैम्पस is located on a साईट in Goleta, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, संयुक्त States, इससे Santa Barbara और उत्तरपश्चिम of लॉस एंजिल्स.
Tracing इसके roots back to 1891 as an independent शिक्षक ' college, UCSB joined the University of कैलिफ़ोर्निया प्रणाली in 1944 और is the third-oldest general-education campus in the प्रणाली.
ucsb is एक of America 's Public आइवी universities, which recognizes top पब्लिक research विश्वविद्यालयों in the संयुक्त States.
the university is a comprehensive डॉक्टरेट विश्वविद्यालयों और is व्यवस्थित into पाँच कॉलेजों and schools offering 87 undergraduate डिग्री और 55 ग्रैजुएट degrees.
The कैम्पस is the 6th-largest in the UC प्रणाली by enrollment साथ 18,977 undergraduate और 2,950 ग्रैजुएट students.
in 2012, ucsb थी ranked 41st among `` नेशनल विश्वविद्यालयों '' और 10th among public universities by U.S. न्यूज & संसार रपट.
The विश्वविद्यालयों थी also ranked 35th विश्वव्यापी by the टाइम्स उच्चतर Education World विश्वविद्यालयों rankings and 34th worldwide ( 6th worldwide लिये engineering ) by the अकादमिक रैंकिंग of संसार विश्वविद्यालयों in 2012. < संदर्भ name= '' shanghairanking.com/fieldeng2012 '' >
uc सांता Barbara is a `` very high activity '' research विश्वविद्यालयों और खर्च $ 191.2 लाख on शोध expenditures in the 2007 फिस्कल year, 97th-largest in the संयुक्त राज्य.
UCSB घरों बारह national research centers, सहित the प्रसिद्ध kavli संस्थान लिये सैद्धांतिक Physics.
ucsb faculty शामिल पाँच Nobel पुरस्कार laureates, one फ़ील्ड medalist, 29 members of the National अकादमी of sciences, 27 members of the National Academy of अभियान्त्रिकी, and 31 सदस्यों of the अमरीकी Academy of Arts and Sciences.
ucsb थी the no. 3 मेजबान on the arpanet and was elected to the संघ of अमरीकी विश्वविद्यालयों in 1995.
the uc सांता बारबरा Gauchos compete in the NCAA प्रभाग I Big वेस्ट Conference.
The gauchos have won ncaa national championships in मेन 's सॉकर and मेन 's जल पोलो.
संत जोसेफ साथ the शिशु यीशु by Guido reni
संत जोसेफ 's दिन, March 19, the Feast of st. Joseph is in पश्चिमी christianity the principal feast day of संत Joseph, जीवनसाथी of the धन्य Virgin मरियम.
he is भी the step-father of यीशु of नासरत /Jesus Christ.
it रै the रैंक of a solemnity in the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर ; catholics जो follow the Missal of 1962 celebrate it as a पहला क्लास feast.
पिछला to 1962 it was मनाये as a feast of the rank of दोगुना of the पहला class.
it is a feast or commemoration in the provinces of the anglican नियाज़, और a feast or पर्व in the लूथरन Church.
संत जोसेफ 's दिन is the Patronal Feast day for Poland as खूब as for कनाडा, व्यक्तियों named जोसेफ, josephine, etc., for धार्मिक institutes, स्कूलों और parishes bearing उसके नाम, और for बढ़ई.
it is also पिता 's Day in कुछ कैथोलिक countries, mainly Spain, Portugal, और Italy.
March 19 थी समर्पित to Saint जोसेफ in several पश्चिमी पंचांग by the दसवाँ century, and इस custom was स्थापित in रोम by 1479.
Pope St. पायस v extended इसके use to the संपूर्ण रोमन रीति by उसके अपोस्टोलिक Constitution quo primum ( July 14, 1570 ).
चूंकि 1969, एपिस्कोपल सम्मेलनों may, if they काश, ट्रांसफ़र it to a date outside lent.
Between 1870 and 1955, a feast was celebrated in सम्मान of st. जोसेफ as Spouse of the धन्य वर्जिन मरियम and Patron of the सार्वभौमिक Church, the latter शीर्षक having महरूम दिए to उसे by पोप पायस ix.
Originally मनाये on the तीसरा संडे बाद ईस्टर साथ an octave, बाद divino Afflatu of st. पायस x ( see सुधार of the रोमन breviary by Pope Pius x ), it was स्थानांतरित to the preceding बुधवार.
the feast थी also retitled the solemnity of संत जोसेफ.
इस जश्न और इसके accompanying अष्टक थी abolished दौरान the modernisation और सरलीकरण of rubrics अंतर्गत Pope पायस बारहवीं in 1955.
It is स्टिल कायम by Catholics who follow the missal of 1962 or पहले missals.
as the परंपरागत holiday of the Apostles ss. फिलिप और जेम्स, May 1, था धुंधली from the memory of सबसे catholics by the mid-twentieth सदी, that of Joseph the Worker थी created in order to coincide साथ the जश्न of international श्रमिक Day ( May दिन ) in many countries.
The feast of ss. Philip and जेम्स, जिससे had महरूम celebrated on कि तिथि चूंकि the sixth सदी, थी स्थानांतरित इससे its traditional प्लेस.
in the new calendar published in 1969, the feast, जिससे at one time occupied the उच्चतम संभावित rank in the Church पंचांग, थी घटाया to an वैकल्पिक Memorial, the न्यूनतम rank लिये a संत 's दिन.
the Eastern परंपरागत Church मनाता Saint जोसेफ on the संडे बाद क्रिसमस.
mariah Carey ( born कूच 27, 1970 ) is an American singer, songwriter, रिकार्ड producer, अभिनेत्री, और philanthropist.
अंतर्गत the guidance of कोलंबिया रिकॉर्ड कार्यपालिका टॉमी Mottola, Carey released उसके self-titled debut स्टुडियो एल्बम mariah कैरी in 1990 ; it went multi-platinum और spawned four consecutive क्रमांक एक singles on the u.s. Billboard hot 100 चार्ट.
following her marriage to mottola in 1993 और success साथ hit रिकॉर्ड भाव ( 1991 ), Music बक्सा ( 1993 ), and मैरी क्रिसमस ( 1994 ), Carey was established as Columbia 's highest-selling act.
Daydream ( 1995 ) बना music history when इसके दूसरी सिंगल `` एक Sweet Day ``, a duet साथ Boyz II Men, spent a रिकार्ड सोलह सप्ताह on शीर्ष of the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100, और remains the longest-running number-one सोंग in u.S. chart इतिहास.
दौरान the recording of the एल्बम, Carey began to deviate from her r & b और पॉप beginnings and धीरे traversed into हिप hop.
इस musical बदलें became evident साथ the release of Butterfly ( 1997 ), at which समय Carey had अलग इससे mottola.
कैरी बाएँ Columbia in 2000, और हस्ताक्षरित a record-breaking $ 100 million रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध with वर्जिन रिकॉर्ड.
पहले the release of her पहला विशेषता film glitter ( 2001 ), वो suffered a physical और emotional विश्लेषण और was hospitalized लिये कठोर थकावट.
Following the फिल्मी 's ग़रीब रिसेप्शन, she was खरीदा आउट of her recording अनुबंध लिये $ 50 लाख, which led to a decline in उसके करियर.
She हस्ताक्षरित a multi-million डालर contract सौदे साथ द्वीप Records in 2002, and after an unsuccessful period, लौटे to the शीर्ष of music चार्ट with The emancipation of मिमी ( 2005 ).
इसके second सिंगल `` We Belong Together `` became उसके सबसे successful सिंगल of the 2000s, और थी later नामित `` Song of the Decade '' by बिलबोर्ड.
कैरी एकबार again ventured into film with a well-received starring भूमिका in ( 2009 ) ; वो was awarded the `` भेदन प्रदर्शन पुरस्कार '' at the ताड़ Springs International फिल्मी पर्व, और Black रील और NAACP Image Award nominations.
in a करियर spanning over दो दशकों, कैरी has बेची more than 200 लाख records worldwide, बनाना उसके एक of the best-selling म्यूज़िक artists of सब time.
In 1998, she थी honored as the संसार 's best-selling रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार of the 1990s at the संसार म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार.
कैरी was also नामित the best-selling मादा artist of the millennium in 2000.
according to the Recording Industry Association of अमेरिका, she is the तीसरा best-selling female कलाकार in the संयुक्त States, with 63.5 लाख certified एल्बम.
साथ the रिलीज of `` Touch my देह `` ( 2008 ), कैरी gained उसके eighteenth number एक single in the संयुक्त States, अधिक than कोई अन्य solo कलाकार.
in 2012, कैरी थी क्रमित दूसरी on VH1 's सूची of the `` 100 महानतम महिलाओं in Music ''.
Aside from उसके वाणिज्यिक accomplishments, कैरी has won पाँच Grammy Awards, 17 संसार Music पुरस्कार, 11 अमरीकी Music पुरस्कार, and 31 Billboard म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार.
referred to as the `` songbird परम् '' by the Guinness संसार रिकॉर्ड, वो is famed for her five-octave गायन range, power, melismatic style and signature use of the whistle register.
A bumblebee is any member of the मधुमक्खी genus Bombus, in the परिवार Apidae.
There are over 250 known species, existing primarily in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध हालांकि they भी occur in South America.
They have महरूम introduced to नई Zealand और the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई राज्य of तस्मानिया.
Bumblebees are social कीट कि are characterised by black and yellow देह बालों, often in bands.
However, some species have orange or red on their bodies, or may be entirely black.
Another स्पष्ट ( but नहीं unique ) characteristic is the नरम nature of the बाल ( long, branched setae ), called pile, कि कवर उनके संपूर्ण body, making उन्हें appear और महसूस फजी.
वे are best विशिष्ट from similarly विशाल, फजी मधुमक्खियों by the रूप of the मादा हिन्द leg, which is परिवर्धित to रूप a corbicula : a चमकदार concave सतह that is bare, लकिन घिरी by a फ्रिंज of hairs प्रयुक्त to हस्तांतरण पराग ( in similar bees, the हिन्द leg is completely बालदार, और pollen दाने are wedged into the बालों for हस्तांतरण ).
Like उनके रिश्तेदारों the honey bees, bumblebees feed on nectar and एकत्रित pollen to feed उनके यंग.
A man openly carrying a handgun in a बर्गर किंग in Eagle, Colorado.
In the संयुक्त राज्य, खोलें carry is shorthand शब्दावली लिये `` खुलकर carrying a firearm in पब्लिक '', as distinguished from concealed carry, जहाँ firearms can नहीं be seen by the कैज़ुअल observer.
The अभ्यास of खोलें carry, जहाँ gun स्वामी openly carry firearms जबकि they go परिचय उनके रोज़ कारोबार, has seen an increase in the U.S. in recent सालो.
इस रै been marked by a क्रमांक of व्यवस्थित कार्यक्रम intended to बढ़ाएँ the दृश्यता of open carry and public awareness about the अभ्यास.
proponents of open carry point to history और आंकडे, noting कि अपराधियों प्रायः छिपाते their weapons.
प्रोत्साहित by groups like opencarry.org, georgiacarry.org और कुछ भागीदार of the Free राज्य Project, खोलें carry रै seen a revival in recent सालो, लकिन it is नहीं yet clear if this represents बस a short-term ट्रेंड.
the गन अधिकारों जातियाँ रै महरूम mixed in इसके जवाब.
एलन Gottlieb of the दूसरी amendment न्यास and the nra have महरूम cautious in expressing support, while special-interest समूह ऐसे as the aforementioned opencarry.org and georgiacarry.org, और certain national groups such as the Gun स्वामी of America ( गोवा ) have महरूम अधिक outspoken in एहसान of the अभ्यास.
खोलें carry is strongly opposed by gun control समूह ऐसे as the ब्रैडी अभियान और the गठबन्धन to Stop गन हिंसा.
the cattenom नाभिकीय Power Plant in France.
फ़्रांस produces around three quarters of इसके electricity by नाभिकीय शक्ति.
the grafenrheinfeld नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in जर्मनी.
चांसलर Angela Merkel 's गठबन्धन announced on May 30, 2011, कि germany’s 17 नाभिकीय शक्ति stations will be shut bas by 2022, in a नीति reversal following जापानी 's Fukushima Daiichi नाभिकीय disaster.
फिलहाल, 68 रिएक्टरों हैं under निर्माण in 15 countries.
Nuclear शक्ति stations operate in thirty countries.
In 2010, before the फुकुशिमा daiichi nuclear disaster, it थी reported that an average of about 10 नाभिकीय रिएक्टरों were अपेक्षित to become operational per year, although according to the संसार Nuclear संघ, of the 17 civilian reactors नियोजित to become operational between 2007 and 2009, तभी पाँच दरअसल आए on स्ट्रीम.
as of जून 2011, Germany और स्विट्ज़रलैंड are phasing-out नाभिकीय शक्ति.
as of June 2011, देशों ऐसे as ऑस्ट्रेलिया, ऑस्ट्रिया, डेनमार्क, यूनानियों, आयरलैंड, इटली, लातवियाई, liechtenstein, ध्वज, मलेशिया, Malta, New Zealand, Norway और Portugal remain opposed to nuclear शक्ति.
Color गति picture film refers both to unexposed रंग फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक फिल्मी in a स्वरूप suitable for use in a motion picture कैमरा, और to finished motion चित्र फिल्मी, ready लिये उपयोग in a प्रोजेक्टर, which bears बिंब in color.
the first रंग cinematography was by means of additive color systems such as the one patented in England by Edward रेमंड टर्नर in 1899 और tested in 1902.
a simplified additive प्रणाली थी developed by George अल्बर्ट स्मिथ और successfully commercialized in 1909 as kinemacolor.
ये early systems used black-and-white फिल्मी to फोटोग्राफ और प्रोजेक्ट दो or more घटक बिंब through अलग रंग फ़िल्टर.
Still from फुटेज अंकित by Edward टर्नर in 1902
With the present-day प्रौद्योगिकी, वहीँ हैं two पृथक प्रक्रियाओं : Eastman रंग ऋणात्मक 2 chemistry ( कैमरा ऋणात्मक स्टॉक्स, duplicating interpositive and internegative स्टॉक्स ) and Eastman Color धनात्मक 2 रसायन ( positive prints for direct projection ), usually abbreviated as ecn-2 और ecp-2.
Fuji 's उत्पाद हैं compatible with ecn-2 और ecp-2.
ashanti shequoiya डगलस ( born October 13, 1980 ) is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter, record producer, और actress.
ashanti is सबसे प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके eponymous डेब्यू एल्बम, which प्रदर्शित the hit सोंग `` foolish ``, और बेची over 503,000 नक़ल in इसके first सप्ताह of रिलीज throughout the u.S. in अप्रैल 2002.
the album set a soundscan रिकार्ड as the biggest opening week बिक्री लिये a new मादा कलाकार, outselling debuts by Alicia कुंजियाँ और लॉरिन Hill.
in the वही week, वो became the पहला female यजमान to simultaneously थाम the शीर्ष two places on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 singles चार्ट साथ `` foolish '', और `` कया 's luv ? ``
( with Fat जो ).
Ashanti broke रिकॉर्ड again by having तीन शीर्ष टेन गीतों, `` foolish, '' `` What 's luv ? '' and `` सदा on समय ``, on the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 charts in the same सप्ताह, being the पहला स्त्री to accomplish this feat और being दूसरी only to the Beatles.
in 2003, the self-titled debut album जीती ashanti उसके पहला ग्रैमी पुरस्कार for बेहतरीन समकालीन R & b album.
as of अप्रैल 1st 2013, Ashanti रै बेची over 27.7 million records worldwide.
ashanti ended the दशक ( 2000–09 ) as the तीसरा top new r & B artist पीछे Alicia कुंजियाँ and बेयोंस.
She भी ended the दशक at क्रमांक 38 on the शीर्ष Artist of the दशक सूची.
She is फिलहाल on the सूची of The बीस बेहतरीन Selling म्यूज़िक singles Since 1990 for her सिंगल foolish लिये selling 7.2 लाख copies to-date.
ashanti रै an estimated जाल लायक of $ 40 million dollars [ usd ].
ashanti wrote और संग पृष्ठभूमि on जेनिफर Lopez 's `` ai n't it Funny ( हत्या रिमिक्स ) ``, जिससे reached क्रमांक one on बिलबोर्ड hot 100, which was also in the top 10 चार्ट at the वही time as `` foolish '', `` Always on समय '' ( with Ja नियम ), और `` What 's Luv '' ( with Fat जो ).
बाद that year, वो was acclaimed as the `` राजकुमारी of hip-hop & R & b '' by her लेबल और capped बंद her कामयाब debut by जीतना eight बिलबोर्ड awards और दो अमरीकी म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार.
Within seven सालो of ashanti 's करियर, she has scored 16 शीर्ष 40 hits on the hot 100.
Ashanti रै endorsed numerous उत्पाद including Gap, Herbal Essences और Mudd Jeans.
ashanti cites व्हिटनी Houston, Janet Jackson, Prince, Madonna, Tupac Shakur, Mary J. Blige, Ella fitzgerald, Smokey Robinson, Donna गर्मियाँ, और ब्लू Magic as her musical प्रभाव.
praised as a gifted songwriter by her peers और critics alike, Ashanti रै written/co-written the bulk of सब उसके म्यूज़िक.
She is फिलहाल working on her own प्रकाशन कम्पनी हकदार Written entertainment.
वो released उसके चौथी studio एल्बम entitled the Declaration on June 3, 2008 और is फिलहाल in the स्टुडियो working on her पांचवां.
वो भी performed the charity धुन `` Just स्टैंड Up `` alongside 15 other मादा गायकों for the `` Stand Up to कर्कट '' live टेलीविज़न खास जिससे helped उठाएँ $ 100 million डॉलर लिये कर्कट शोध.
The United States Army एयर Forces ( USAAF or AAF ) was the सैन्य विमानन भुजा of the United States of अमेरिका during and तत्काल बाद World War ii, and the direct पूर्ववर्ती of the संयुक्त States एयर फ़ोर्स.
the aaf थी a घटक of the संयुक्त राज्य फौज, जिससे in 1942 थी विभाजित functionally by कार्यपालिका अनुक्रम into three autonomous forces : the फौज मैदान शक्तियां, the Services of Supply ( which in 1943 became the फौज सेवा शक्तियां ), and the AAF.
Each of ये forces था a commanding general जो reported directly to the मुख्य of Staff of the संयुक्त राज्य फौज.
The aaf administered सब parts of सैन्य aviation formerly distributed among the फौज Air Corps, सामान्य मुख्यालय एयर Force, और मैदान forces corps area कमांडरों, और thus became the पहला air संगठन of the U.S. Army to कंट्रोल इसके अपना संस्थापना and support कर्मियों.
In practice, the AAF थी वस्तुतः autonomous inside the Army.
The शिखर आकार of the aaf was over 2.4 लाख मेन and महिलाओं in सेवा and nearly 80,000 वायुयान in 1944, and 783 घरेलू bases in December 1943.
by ve Day it had 1.25 लाख मेन stationed overseas and संचालित from अधिक than 1,600 airfields विश्वव्यापी.
the एयर Corps became the फौज एयर शक्तियां in जून 1941 to provide the एयर arm a greater स्वायत्तता in जिससे to expand more efficiently, and to provide a ढांचा लिये the अतिरिक्त command echelons required by a vastly increased force.
Although अन्य राष्ट्र already था separate एयर शक्तियां independent of the फौज or नेवी ( ऐसे as the अंग्रेजों Royal एयर फ़ोर्स and the German luftwaffe ), the AAF remained a भाग of the संयुक्त राज्य फौज until the United राज्य Air फ़ोर्स came into being in September 1947.
However, in its विस्तार और conduct of the war, the aaf became more than बस an arm of the वृहद organization.
by the समाप्त of संसार War ii the aaf था become virtually an स्वतंत्र service.
by regulation और कार्यपालिका अनुक्रम, the AAF थी a subordinate एजेंसी of the युद्ध विभाग tasked तभी साथ आयोजन, training, and equipping combat इकाई, limited in जिम्मेदारी to the महाद्वीपीय संयुक्त राज्य, as यहूद the फौज मैदान शक्तियां और the फौज सेवा शक्तियां.
in वास्तविकता, Headquarters AAF controlled the conduct of सब पहलुओं of the air war in every भाग of the संसार, determining air नीति और issuing आदेश बगैर transmitting उन्हें through the मुख्य of Staff.
इस `` कंट्रास्ट between theory और फैक्ट is... fundamental to an understanding of the aaf. ''
the Freedom of सूचना अधिनियम ( FOIA ) is a संघीय स्वतंत्रता of information विधि that allows लिये the full or आंशिक प्रकटीकरण of previously unreleased information and दस्तावेज़ नियंत्रित by the संयुक्त States सरकारी.
The अधिनियम defines एजेंसी records विषय to प्रकटीकरण, outlines अनिवार्य प्रकटीकरण प्रक्रियाओं और grants नौ छूटों to the statute.
it थी originally हस्ताक्षरित into law by अध्यक्ष lyndon B. जॉनसन, despite उसके misgivings, on July 4, 1966 as and went into प्रभाव the following साल.
the Federal Government 's स्वतंत्रता of सूचना अधिनियम should not be उलझन साथ the different and varying स्वतंत्रता of सूचना Acts passed by the व्यक्तिगत राज्य.
अनेक of those राज्य acts may be समान लकिन not identical to the संघीय act.
the European संघ ( eu ) is an economic और राजनैतिक संघ of 27 member राज्य कि are located primarily in Europe.
The EU operates through a प्रणाली of supranational स्वतंत्र संस्थानों and intergovernmental negotiated निर्णय by the सदस्य राज्य.
संस्थानों of the EU शामिल the यूरोपीय Commission, the परिषद of the यूरोपीय संघ, the यूरोपीय Council, the Court of इंसाफ of the यूरोपीय संघ, the यूरोपीय Central बैंको, the Court of auditors, and the यूरोपीय पार्लियामेंट.
the European पार्लियामेंट is निर्वाचित every five years by eu नागरिकों.
the eu 's de facto पूंजी is ब्रसेल्स.
The EU traces इसके origins इससे the European कोयले और स्टील जातियाँ ( ecsc ) and the यूरोपीय आर्थिक जातियाँ ( eec ), formed by the Inner Six देशों in 1951 and 1958 क्रमशः.
In the intervening years the जातियाँ and its successors have grown in size by the accession of नई member राज्य और in शक्ति by the जोड of नीति क्षेत्रों to its remit.
The maastricht Treaty स्थापित the यूरोपीय Union under इसके वर्तमान नाम in 1993.
the latest प्रमुख amendment to the constitutional basis of the EU, the Treaty of लिस्बन, came into फ़ोर्स in 2009.
The EU रै विकसित a सिंगल market through a standardised प्रणाली of laws कि apply in सब सदस्य states.
Within the Schengen Area ( जिससे शामिल 22 EU और 4 non-EU राज्य ) passport controls have been abolished.
EU नीतियों aim to ensure the फ़्री गति of लोगों, goods, सेवाएं, और capital, enact विधान in इंसाफ और home अफेयर्स, और maintain आम नीतियों on व्यापार, कृषि, fisheries और क्षेत्रीय विकास.
a मौद्रिक union, the eurozone, थी स्थापित in 1999 और is composed of 17 member states.
Through the आम Foreign and सुरक्षा नीति the eu रै developed a भूमिका in बाह्य संबंध और रक्षा.
स्थाई diplomatic मिशन have been established around the world.
the EU is represented at the United Nations, the WTO, the G8 और the G-20.
With a संयुक्त जनसांख्यिकी of over 500 लाख निवासियों, or 7.3 % of the world जनसांख्यिकी, the EU, in 2012, उत्पन्न a nominal सकल घरेलू उत्पाद ( जीडीपी ) of 16.584 trillion us डॉलर, representing approximately 20 % of the वैश्विक जीडीपी when measured in terms of खरीदना power पैरिटी, और represents the largest नाममात्र जीडीपी and जीडीपी PPP in the संसार.
the eu was the प्राप्तकर्ता of the 2012 नोबेल Peace पुरस्कार.
the वेल्स नेशनल rugby लीग team represent Wales in international रग्बी league फ़ुटबॉल मिलान.
फिलहाल the team is seventh in the rlif संसार Rankings.
The team यहूद run अंतर्गत the auspices of the Rugby फ़ुटबॉल लीग, लकिन an independent देह, Wales रग्बी लीग, now runs the टोली इससे कार्डिफ.
a कुल of three Welsh players have been डाला into the Rugby लीग हॉल of कीर्ति.
Similar to many अन्य Welsh नेशनल sporting टीमों, वेल्स स्ट्रिप रै महरूम primarily red for अनेक years, including now.
however in उनके पिछला World कप अभियान in 2000 they did पहनें a कमीज़ featuring the वेल्श flag, adding a टच of ग्रीन और श्वेत.
The team is known as `` The Dragons '' और so the teams logo on the shirt is a रेड ड्रैगन.
The टोली तिथि back to 1907, बनाना उन्हें the third oldest नेशनल side बाद England और नई Zealand.
और it थी a touring New जीलैंड पक्ष कि वेल्स पहला निभाई against in 1908, जीतना 9-8 at aberdare.
Since then वेल्स have regularly played England, चूंकि 1935 France, as well as सत्कार the touring Australia and नई जीलैंड टीमों, हालांकि वे rarely toured themselves, not playing a मैच in the Southern Hemisphere until 1975.
लिये twenty-six years वेल्स competed विरूद्ध उनके two biggest विरोधियों, इंग्लैण्ड and France, in the European Nations कप, winning the ट्रॉफी चार टाइम्स.
वेल्स have भी competed in the संसार कप on three occasions, the पहला समय होने in 1975.
in 1995 और 2000 they था उनके सबसे successful tournaments to date, surprisingly बनाना the semi-finals on दोनो अवसरों पहले होने पिटे by England and Australia respectively.
वेल्स विफल to qualify लिये the 2008 World कप, होने the दूसरी उच्चतम क्रमित side नहीं to do so, having खोया to स्कॉटलैंड on points अंतर over दो matches.
in 2008 ऑस्ट्रेलियाई जॉन Dixon became the new head कोच और नियुक्त ली Briers as कप्तान, having निभाई लिये Wales चूंकि 1998.
in recent seasons वेल्स have taken massive strides अंतर्गत former खिलाड़ी iestyn हैरिस जो रै coached वेल्स to वापस to वापस European Cup सफलताओं, which culminated in a Four राष्ट्र रूप in 2011.
Cardiomyopathy ( वस्तुतः `` heart muscle बीमारी '' ) is the measurable deterioration of the फलन of the myocardium ( the दिल मांसपेशी ) for any reason, प्रायः leading to दिल विफलता ; आम symptoms are dyspnea ( breathlessness ) और परिधीय edema ( सूजन of the टाँगे ).
लोगों with cardiomyopathy हैं प्रायः at रिस्क of खतरनाक फ़ॉर्म of irregular heart ताल और अचानक cardiac मौत.
the सबसे आम form of cardiomyopathy is dilated cardiomyopathy.
Fuck in इसके शाब्दिक अर्थ refers to the अधिनियम of यौन मैथुन.
it is an English word कि is प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a profanity, either to denote तिरस्कार or as an intensifier.
The origin of the शब्द is अस्पष्ट.
It is usually considered to be पहला attested to around 1475, but it may be considerably पुरानी.
in आधुनिक उपयोग, fuck और its derivatives ( ऐसे as कमीने और fucking ) can be used in the position of a noun, a क्रिया, an क्रियाशील or an adverb.
वहीँ are अनेक आम phrases which मेक उपयोग of the word, as खूब as a क्रमांक of यौगिकों incorporating it, such as motherfucker.
नोट : this आलेख adopts the u.S. विभाग of परिवहन 's परिभाषा of a passenger गाडी, to औसत a car or ट्रक, प्रयुक्त लिये passengers, excluding बसें and रेल.
The संयुक्त States is home to the largest यात्री vehicle market of कोई देश in the world.
Overall, वहीँ were an estimated 254.4 million registered यात्री वाहनों in the संयुक्त राज्य according to a 2007 बिन्दु पढ़ाई.
इस क्रमांक, साथ साथ the औसत आयु of वाहनों, रै increased steadily चूंकि 1960, indicating a growing क्रमांक of वाहनों per capita.
the Chinese car मार्केट, however, is poised to soon exceed the संयुक्त States ; by the समाप्त of 2012, वहीँ यहूद over 240 million cars on the road in China.
the United राज्य is also home to three विशाल vehicle निर्माताओं : General मोटर्स, Ford मोटर Company और क्रिसलर, जिससे have historically महरूम referred to as the `` बिग Three. ''
Chrysler however is no longer among the शीर्ष तीन ; but is number पाँच, पीछे टोयोटा और Honda.
the motor car has clearly become an integral भाग of American life, with वाहनों outnumbering licensed drivers.
Clinical प्रयोगशाला in a हॉस्पिटल सेटिंग showing several स्वचालित analysers.
A medical प्रयोगशाला or clinical laboratory is a प्रयोगशाला where tests हैं किया on clinical नमूनों in अनुक्रम to मिलेंगी सूचना परिचय the health of a रोगी as pertaining to the निदान, उपचार, and रोकथाम of disease.
in पोकर, players construct हैंड्स of पाँच ताश according to predetermined rules, which vary according to जिससे variant of पोकर is being निभाई.
ये हैंड्स हैं compared using a हाथ ranking प्रणाली that is standard across all variants of पोकर, the खिलाड़ी साथ the highest-ranking हाथ winning that particular deal in most variants of poker.
in some विसंगतियाँ, the lowest-ranking hand can win or tie.
These हाथ rankings हैं भी प्रयुक्त in some other कार्ड खेल, और in पोकर dice.
The ranking of a particular हाथ is increased by सहित अनेक cards of the वही कार्ड रैंक, by सब five ताश होने from the same suit, or by all पाँच cards being of consecutive रैंक.
the सापेक्ष ranking of the विभिन्न hand श्रेणी is based on the संभाव्यता of being randomly dealt such a हाथ इससे a well- shuffled डेक.
ब्रूस रान्डेल hornsby ( born नवम्बर 23, 1954 ) is an American virtuoso ; a singer, pianist, सिंथेसाइज़र, accordion, और dulcimer खिलाड़ी, and songwriter.
ज्ञात for the spontaneity and creativity of his live प्रदर्शन, hornsby draws अक्सर from classical, jazz, bluegrass, folk, motown, gospel, चट्टान, blues, और jam बैंड musical परंपराओं साथ उसके songwriting और the seamless improvisations contained भीतर.
hornsby 's रिकार्डिंग have been recognised on a number of occasions साथ उद्योग पुरस्कार, including the बेहतरीन New Artist Grammy in 1987 साथ ब्रूस hornsby and the Range, the Best ब्लूग्रास Recording ग्रैमी in 1990, और the बेहतरीन Pop इंस्ट्रूमेंटल ग्रैमी in 1993.
hornsby has भी हासिल recognition लिये उसके सोलो एल्बम and performances, his touring बैंड Bruce Hornsby और the noisemakers, उसके bluegrass प्रोजेक्ट with रिकी skaggs और उसके दिखावे as a session- और guest-musician.
He भी collaborated with आभारी मुर्दे and was a member of the बैंड from September 1990 to March 1992, playing at over one सौ shows during that काल.
गन्ना plantation in ग्रामीण क्यूबा
Agriculture in Cuba has निभाई an महत्वपूर्ण part in the अर्थव्यवस्था लिये अनेक hundred सालो.
कृषि contributes कम than 10 प्रतिशत to the सकल domestic उत्पाद ( जीडीपी ), लकिन it employs roughly 20 प्रतिशत of the working population.
परिचय 30 percent of the country 's जमीन is used लिये क्रॉप cultivation.
the inefficient agricultural उद्योग in क्यूबा रै led to the need to आयात विशाल amounts of भोजन.
क्यूबा now imports परिचय 80 % of the खाना it rations to the पब्लिक.
the rationing program खाते लिये परिचय a third of the खाना energy the औसत Cuban consumes.
Overall, however, क्यूबा is निर्भर on imports लिये only 16 % of its खाना.
सही
Mega लाखो ( initially called the Big Game आचमन Millions as the successor of The बिग Game ) is an अमरीकी multi-jurisdictional $ 1 लॉटरी game.
the पहला ( the बिग Game ) आचमन Millions आरेखण थी in 2002 ( देखिए below ).
The minimum Mega Millions advertised jackpot is $ 12,000,000, सशुल्क in 26 बराबर yearly किश्तों ( unless the नकदी option is chosen ) ; usually, the जैकपॉट increases जब there is no top-prize विजेता.
However, despite no jackpot विजेता लिये the $ 12,000,000 दिसम्बर 18, 2012 आरेखण, the जैकपॉट remained at $ 12,000,000 लिये the आरेखण to be आयोजित on दिसम्बर 21.
( देखिए नीचे लिये information on कैसा the game 's जैकपॉट is वित्तपोषित. )
reflecting आम अभ्यास among American lotteries, the jackpot is advertised as a nominal value of annual किश्तों.
a नकदी value विकल्प ( the usual चुनाव ), जब चुनी by a जैकपॉट विजेता ( देखिए नीचे ), pays the approximate present मान of the किश्तों.
आचमन लाखो currently उपयोग a 5/56 ( श्वेत balls ) प्लस 1/46 ( the Mega बॉल ) double मेट्रिक्स to चुनें its जीतना numbers.
प्रत्येक खेल लागत $ 1.
in 43 of the 44 आचमन Millions jurisdictions ( कैलिफ़ोर्निया is the एक्सेप्शन ), वहीँ is an option, पुकारा Megaplier ( ऐसे games हैं $ 2 each ) जहाँ non-jackpot पुरस्कार are multiplied by 2, 3, or 4.
the megaplier थी made available to सब आचमन Millions jurisdictions in जनवरी 2011 ; it began as a टेक्सास -only option.
आचमन लाखो is drawn at 10:59 p.m. पूर्वी समय मंगलवार and Fridays, सहित छुट्टियाँ.
आचमन लाखो is administered by a consortium of इसके 12 असली lotteries and the drawings are आयोजित at wsb-tv in Atlanta, Georgia.
supervised by the जॉर्जिया Lottery.
The largest जैकपॉट in आचमन Millions, as खूब as in American lottery इतिहास, थी $ 656,000,000 annuitized ( with a नकदी विकल्प of $ 474,000,000 ) for the March 30, 2012 drawing in which वहीँ were तीन jackpot-winning टिकटें ; एक each in Illinois, कान्सास, and Maryland.
सब three tickets था been claimed as of April 18, साथ प्रत्येक set of विजेता choosing the नकदी विकल्प.
is a जापानी manga श्रेणी निर्मित by लेखक tsugumi Ohba और manga कलाकार Takeshi Obata.
the प्रमुख अक्षर is Light Yagami, a high स्कूल छात्र जो discovers a अलौकिक कोपी, the `` मौत नोट '', dropped on Earth by a shinigami ( a परमेश्वर of मौत ) named Ryuk.
the मौत नोट अनुदान its उपयोक्ता the क्षमता to kill anyone whose नाम और फेस they जान, by writing the नाम in the कोपी जबकि picturing उनके फेस.
The श्रेणी centers around Light 's attempt to बनाएँ and नियम a world `` cleansed of दुष्ट '' as `` परमेश्वर '' using the कोपी, और the प्रयत्न of a जासूस ज्ञात as l to stop him.
Death नोट थी first serialized in 108 अध्याय by shueisha in the जापानी manga magazine साप्ताहिक shōnen Jump इससे December 2003 to May 2006.
The श्रेणी was also published in tankōbon स्वरूप in Japan starting in may 2004 और समाप्ति in अक्तूबर 2006 साथ a total of thirteen volumes.
The दुश्मनी श्रेणी aired in जापानी from October 3, 2006, to June 26, 2007.
रचित of 37 episodes, the दुश्मनी थी developed by Madhouse और directed by Tetsuro araki.
A लाइट novel based on the series, written by nisio Isin, थी released in जापानी.
additionally, विभिन्न वीडियो games have महरूम प्रकाशित by कोनामी लिये निन्टेंडो ds.
the श्रेणी was adapted into live-action films released in जापानी on जून 17, 2006, November 3, 2006, and फ़रवरी 2, 2008.
viz मीडिया licensed the मौत Note manga in North अमेरिका और रै published सब the बारह आयतन from the series, a 13th आवाज़ which serves as a `` reader 's मार्गदर्शिका '', as खूब as the लाइट novels.
the एपीसोड from the दुश्मनी पहला appeared in उत्तर America as downloadable by ign.
viz बाद licensed the anime श्रेणी और it aired on bionix in Canada और on Cartoon Network in the संयुक्त राज्य.
the live-action films briefly निभाई in निश्चित उत्तर अमरीकी थिएटर since 2008.
however, none of the video खेल have यूँ दूर been published in North America or Europe.
Death Note is एक of साप्ताहिक shōnen jumps best-selling manga series of all समय, साथ sales over 26.5 लाख नक़ल.
हैलोवीन or hallowe'en ( a संकुचन of `` All Hallows ' Evening `` ), भी ज्ञात as सब hallows ' Eve, is a yearly जश्न observed in a number of देशों on October 31, the eve of the पश्चिमी Christian feast of सब Hallows ( or सब संतो ) and the दिन initiating the triduum of hallowmas.
according to many scholars, सब hallows ' Eve is a Christianised feast originally influenced by western यूरोपीय कटाई festivals, और festivals of the मुर्दे साथ possible pagan roots, विशेषकर the सेल्टिक Samhain.
Other विद्वानों maintain कि it originated independently of Samhain और has solely ईसाई जड़ें.
ठेठ festive Halloween activities शामिल trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ), उपस्थित वेशभूषा पार्टियों, नक्काशी pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, apple bobbing, visiting haunted आकर्षण, playing pranks, telling scary stories, and watching horror films.
New York City taxicabs दौरान midtown rush घंटा in मैनहटन
the taxicabs of नई York City, साथ उनके distinctive yellow paint, are a widely पहचाना प्रतीक of the नगर.
taxicabs are संचालित by निजी companies और licensed by the नई यॉर्क City टैक्सी और लिमोज़ीन आयोग ( tlc ).
it भी oversees over 40,000 other for-hire वाहनों, including `` ब्लैक cars '', commuter vans and ambulettes.
`` Medallion टैक्सी, '' the परिचित पीला cabs, हैं the only वाहनों in the city permitted to pick up passengers in जवाब to a street hail.
Schematic cross section of भाग of पत्ता, जाइलम दिखाया as रेड circles at फिगर 8.
जाइलम is one of the दो प्रकार of transport ऊतक in vascular पौधे ( phloem is the अन्य ).
the शब्द जाइलम is निकला इससे the यूनानी शब्द ξύλον ( xylon ), अर्थ `` wood '' ; the best-known जाइलम ऊतक is लकडी, हालांकि it is found throughout the plant.
Its मौलिक function is to transport water, but it also transports some nutrients through the plant.
u.S. महिलाओं suffragists demonstrating for the सही to vote, February 1913.
महिलाओं 's suffrage also ज्ञात as स्त्री suffrage is the सही of women to vote and to चलाएं लिये दफ्तर.
सीमित voting अधिकारों यहूद gained by women in Sweden, फिनलैंड और कुछ पश्चिमी u.S. राज्य in the लेट 19th century.
International संगठन यहूद formed to coordinate प्रयत्न, especially the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Council of Women ( 1888 ) और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्त्री suffrage Alliance ( 1904 ).
In 1893, नई जीलैंड, तब a self-governing British उपनिवेश, granted adult महिलाओं the सही to vote और the self-governing British colony of South ऑस्ट्रेलिया did the वही in 1895, लकिन भी permitted महिलाओं to run लिये दफ्तर.
ऑस्ट्रेलिया federated in 1901, और महिलाओं acquired the सही to vote and स्टैंड in federal चुनावों इससे 1902, though uneven restrictions on aboriginal महिलाओं voting in national चुनावों यहूद नहीं completely removed जबतक 1962.
the पहला European देश to introduce women 's suffrage was the Grand Duchy of Finland, तब part of the रूसी Empire, जिससे भी produced the world 's first मादा सदस्यों of पार्लियामेंट in the 1907 parliamentary चुनावों.
नार्वे followed, granting पूरा महिलाओं 's suffrage in 1913.
In सबसे पश्चिमी देशों, women 's suffrage आए बाद संसार i War i i, with कुछ important लेट अनुकूलक होने फ़्रांस in 1944 और Switzerland in 1971.
महिलाओं 's suffrage रै generally महरूम पहचाना after राजनैतिक campaigns to obtain it यहूद waged.
in अनेक देशों it थी granted पहले सार्वभौमिक suffrage.
Women 's suffrage is explicitly stated as a सही अंतर्गत the Convention on the विलोपन of All Forms of पक्षपात Against महिलाओं, अपनाया by the United राष्ट्र in 1979.
the तेरहवीं टेल ( 2006 ) by डायने setterfield is a gothic suspense novel, the लेखक 's first published book.
Jehovah 's गवाह is a millenarian restorationist ईसाई denomination साथ nontrinitarian मान्यताओं पृथक इससे mainstream Christianity.सोर्सs for descriptors : • millenarian : • restorationist : • Christian : • Denomination : the संगठन reports विश्वव्यापी membership of over 7.78 million adherents शामिल in इंजीलवाद, सम्मेलन उपस्थिति of over 12 million, और सालाना Memorial उपस्थिति of over 19 million.
They are निर्देशित by the शासी देह of यहोवा 's गवाह, a group of बड़ो in Brooklyn, New York, कि establishes all doctrines.
यहोवा 's गवाह ' मान्यताओं हैं आधारित on उनके interpretations of the Bible और वे prefer to उपयोग उनके अपना अनुवाद, the नई संसार अनुवाद of the पावन शास्त्रों.
They believe that the विनाश of the उपस्थित संसार प्रणाली at armageddon is imminent, and कि the स्थापना of God 's kingdom on earth is the तभी solution लिये सब समस्याएं faced by mankind.
The समूह उभरा from the बाइबल Student movement —founded in the लेट 1870s by Charles taze रसेल साथ the गठन of Zion 's देखें मीनार ट्रैक्ट Society —with significant organizational and doctrinal परिवर्तन अंतर्गत the नेतृत्व of जोसेफ फ्रैंकलिन रदरफोर्ड.
The नाम Jehovah 's गवाह, आधारित on यशायाह 43:10–12, थी अपनाया in 1931 to फर्क themselves from अन्य बाइबल Student groups और symbolize a ब्रेक साथ the legacy of Russell 's traditions.
यहोवा 's गवाह are best ज्ञात for उनके door-to-door उपदेश, distributing literature ऐसे as the Watchtower and जाग !
, and refusing सैन्य सेवा और रक्त transfusions.
वे consider use of the नाम Jehovah vital for उचित इबादत.
वे reject trinitarianism, अंतर्निहित अमरत्व of the आत्मा, और hellfire, which वे consider to be unscriptural doctrines.
वे do not observe Christmas, ईस्टर, जन्मदिन, or other holidays and कस्टम they consider to have pagan origins असंगत with christianity.
adherents commonly refer to उनके body of मान्यताओं as `` the सच्चाई '' और consider themselves to be `` in the सच्चाई ''.
वे consider धर्मनिरपेक्ष समाज to be morally भ्रष्ट और अंतर्गत the influence of Satan, and सबसे limit उनके सोशल interaction साथ non-witnesses.
Congregational disciplinary actions शामिल disfellowshipping, उनके term लिये औपचारिक expulsion और shunning.
baptized individuals जो formally छोड़ are माना disassociated and हैं also shunned.
Disfellowshipped और disassociated individuals may eventually be reinstated if deemed repentant.
the religion 's position regarding conscientious आपत्ति to सैन्य सेवा and refusal to सलाम national flags रै brought it into विरोध with some सरकारें.
Consequently, यहोवा 's Witnesses have been persecuted और उनके activities हैं banned or restricted in some देशों.
Persistent legal challenges by Jehovah 's Witnesses have बहकावे विधान सम्बन्धित to civil अधिकारों in अनेक countries.
पिछला Tango in पेरिस ( ) is a 1972 Franco-Italian रोमांटिक Drama फिल्मी directed by बर्नार्डो bertolucci जिससे portrays a हाल अमरीकी widower जो begins an बेनाम यौन संबंध with a young, betrothed Parisian स्त्री.
It सितारों मार्लोन ब्रैंडो, Maria Schneider, और Jean-Pierre léaud.
The फिल्मी 's raw portrayal of sexual violence and emotional turmoil led to अंतरराष्ट्रीय विवाद और drew various स्तर of सरकारी सेंसरशिप.
the MPAA दिया the film an X rating upon रिलीज in the संयुक्त राज्य.
बाद revisions were made to the mpaa दरजा code, it थी वर्गीकृत as an nc-17 in 1997.
MGM released a censored R-rated काटें in 1981.
The film रै इसके nc-17 rating लिये `` some सुस्पष्ट यौन सामग्री. ''
Windows xp is an ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली produced by microsoft for use on personal कंप्यूटर, including घर और business desktops, लैपटॉप और media centers.
पहला released to computer निर्माताओं on अगस्त 24, 2001, it is the दूसरी सबसे popular संस्करण of Windows, based on संस्थापित user आधार.
the name `` xp '' is छोटी for `` अनुभव '', highlighting the उन्नत user अनुभव.
खिड़कियाँ XP, the successor to खिड़कियाँ 2000 और खिड़कियाँ me, थी the पहला consumer-oriented ऑपरेटिंग system produced by Microsoft to be built on the खिड़कियाँ nt kernel.
Windows xp थी released विश्वव्यापी for retail sale on अक्तूबर 25, 2001, और over 400 लाख copies यहूद in उपयोग in जनवरी 2006.
it थी succeeded by खिड़कियाँ Vista in जनवरी 2007.
Direct oem और retail बिक्री of Windows xp ceased on जून 30, 2008.
Microsoft जारी to sell Windows XP through उनके System Builders ( छोटी OEMs who sell समवेत computers ) कार्यक्रम जबतक January 31, 2009.
on April 10, 2012, microsoft reaffirmed कि विस्तारित support लिये Windows XP और दफ्तर 2003 would end on अप्रैल 8, 2014 और सुझाया that administrators शुरू preparing to migrate to a नए os.
the nt -आधारd संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ, which are प्रोग्रामित in C, C++, and सभा, हैं ज्ञात लिये उनके improved stability और efficiency over the 9x संस्करण of microsoft खिड़कियाँ.
खिड़कियाँ XP presented a significantly redesigned graphical उपयोक्ता interface, a बदलें microsoft promoted as अधिक user-friendly than पिछला संस्करण of Windows.
in an attempt to further ameliorate the `` dll hell `` कि plagued the पास्ट संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ, improved side-by-side assembly प्रौद्योगिकी in खिड़कियाँ XP allows side-by-side installation, पंजीकरण and servicing of अनेक संस्करण of globally साझा तन्त्र components in पूरा isolation.
it is also the पहला version of Windows to use उत्पाद सक्रियण to combat illegal copying.
During खिड़कियाँ xp 's विकास, the प्रोजेक्ट was codenamed `` Whistler '', after whistler, अंग्रेजों कोलंबिया, as अनेक microsoft कर्मचारी skied at the Whistler-Blackcomb ski रिज़ॉर्ट.
according to web analytics आंकड़ा generated by Net अनुप्रयोग, Windows xp was the सबसे widely प्रयुक्त ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली जबतक अगस्त 2012, when Windows 7 overtook it.
, खिड़कियाँ XP मार्केट share is at 38.99 %, having decreased almost every month चूंकि at least November 2007, the पहला माह लिये जिससे आंकडे are सरेआम उपलब्धियाँ इससे जाल Applications.
`` Por ऊना cabeza '' is an अर्जेंटाइन टैंगो with म्यूज़िक और lyrics written in 1935 by Carlos gardel and अल्फ्रेडो le प्रभा respectively.
the नाम is a स्पेनी horse-racing phrase meaning `` by a सिर '', जिससे refers to a घोड़ा जीतना a race by the लंबाई of एक सिर.
the गीत बोलो of a compulsive horse-track gambler जो compares उसके addiction लिये घोड़े साथ उसके attraction to महिलाओं.
अल्फ्रेडो Le प्रभा थी a Brazilian इससे São Paulo, a much italian-influenced area in Brazil, and भी the birthplace of zequinha de Abreu, composer of Tico-Tico no Fubá.
le Pera और gardel died in an वायुयान क्रैश in medellín, ( कोलंबिया ), on जून 24, 1935.
पोर ऊना cabeza
the टैंगो has since महरूम performed by numerous टैंगो orchestras.
Tango scenes साथ `` पोर ऊना cabeza '' appear in delicatessen ( 1991 ), सैंट of a स्त्री ( 1992 ), schindler 's List ( 1993 ), सच्चा Lies ( 1994 ), टाइटैनिक ( 1996 ), ख़राब सांता ( Uncut संस्करण, 2003 ), All the King 's मेन ( 2006 ), ग्रह 51 ( 2009 ), एपीसोड 37 of nip/tuck ( 2003–2010 ), episode 9 of दक्षिण Korean drama श्रेणी Sweet जासूस ( 2005–08 ), the beginning and ending क्रेडिट of the दक्षिण कोरियाई drama ब्रॉडकास्ट i 'm sorry, i प्रेम You ( 2004 ), and the एपीसोड `` bas the खरगोश Hole `` ( 2007 ).
In the फिल्म frida ( सलमा हायेक, 2002 ), Gardel is heard गायन it on a रेडियो.
it is also quoted in David डेल Tredici 's `` शुभ न्यूज !
nilda is Back '' ( from the song cycle Miz inez sez ).
In Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ), the tango is performed by the `` the टैंगो Project '', who दरअसल appear in the dancing scene अभिनीत Al पचिनो ( the recording प्रयुक्त is उपलब्धियाँ on one of their cd albums ).
जॉन विलियम्स arranged a संस्करण of the टुकड़ा that appears on the album `` सिनेमा serenade '' with the violin सोलो performed by Itzhak पर्लमैन.
Perlman and Williams ( conducting ) have also performed the piece साथ in सजीव कॉन्सर्ट.
in 2012 a dance version थी released by the समूह `` Da Carrera '' featuring the असली vocal recording by कार्लोस Gardel.
the baroreflex or baroreceptor reflex is एक of the देह 's homeostatic mechanisms लिये maintaining blood दबाव.
it provides a ऋणात्मक प्रतिक्रिया लूप in which an elevated रक्त दबाव reflexively causes दिल रेट to घटी इसलिए causing blood दबाव to घटी ; likewise, decreased रक्त pressure activates the baroreflex, causing दिल रेट to बढ़ाएँ यूँ causing an बढ़ाएँ in रक्त दबाव.
the system relies on specialized neurons, ज्ञात as baroreceptors, in the aortic arch, carotid साइनस, और elsewhere to monitor changes in रक्त दबाव and रिले them to the brainstem.
subsequent परिवर्तन in blood दबाव are mediated by the autonomic बेचैन system.
Atrial natriuretic पेप्टाइड forms a parallel ऋणात्मक प्रतिक्रिया loop in an endocrinological कंट्रास्ट to the renin-angiotensin प्रणाली.
the Loma prieta भूकंप, भी ज्ञात as the भूकंप of '89 and the संसार श्रेणी Earthquake, थी a प्रमुख earthquake कि struck the सैन Francisco खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल of कैलिफ़ोर्निया on अक्तूबर 17, 1989, at 5:04 pm लोकल समय.
caused by a स्लिप along the सैन andreas दोष, the quake lasted 10–15 सेकेंड और measured 6.9 on both the moment magnitude स्केल ( surface-wave परिमाण 7.1 ) और on the open-ended रिक्टर Scale.
the भूकंप मारे 63 लोगों throughout उत्तरी California, injured 3,757 and बाएँ कुछ 3,000–12,000 लोगों बेघर.
the earthquake occurred दौरान the warm-up अभ्यास for the तीसरा खेल of the 1989 संसार श्रेणी, featuring both of the Bay क्षेत्रफल 's Major League Baseball टीमों, the ओकलैंड एथलेटिक्स and the सैन Francisco दिग्गज.
क्युकी of game-related sports coverage, इस was the पहला major earthquake in the संयुक्त States to have its आरंभिक jolt broadcast live on टेलीविज़न.
साहूकार in the मानक Staunton पैटर्न
the साहूकार ( ♙♟ ) is the सबसे numerous और in सबसे हालातों the weakest piece in the game of chess, historically representing infantry or, अधिक विशेषकर, हथियारबंद peasants or pikemen.
in chess, प्रत्येक खिलाड़ी begins the खेल साथ eight pawns, एक on each वर्गाकार of the रैंक तत्काल in front of the अन्य टुकड़े.
( In बीजीय संकेतन, the white प्यादे start on a2, b2, c2,..., h2, while black pawns प्रारंभ on a7, b7, c7,..., h7. )
व्यक्तिगत प्यादे हैं referred to by the संचिका on which they स्टैंड.
लिये example, एक बोलती of `` श्वेत 's f-pawn '' or `` ब्लैक 's b-pawn '', or less commonly ( using वर्णनात्मक संकेतन ), `` White 's किंग 's bishop साहूकार '' or `` Black 's महारानी 's knight साहूकार ''.
It is भी common to refer to a rook साहूकार, अर्थ any pawn on the a- or h-file, a नाईट pawn ( on the b- or g-file ), a बिशप साहूकार ( on the c- or f-file ), a महारानी साहूकार ( on the d-file ), a king pawn ( on the e-file ), और a central साहूकार ( on either the d- or e-file ).
The सैन्य forces of the संसार have differing approaches to the enlistment of homosexual ( gay and lesbian ) और द्विलिंगी individuals.
the हथियारबंद शक्तियां of सबसे विकसित countries have अभी removed policies excluding non-heterosexual individuals ( साथ strict policies on यौन उत्पीड़न ).
राष्ट्र कि परमिट gay लोगों to serve खुलकर in the military शामिल the 4 of the 5 members of the UN Security Council ( संयुक्त राज्य, United किंगडम, France, और Russia ), the गणतंत्र of चीन ( Taiwan ), Australia, Israel, दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी, Argentina, और all नाटो members excluding Turkey.
Hydrogen उत्पादन is the परिवार of औद्योगिक विधि for generating hydrogen.
फिलहाल the प्रबल technology लिये direct उत्पादन is भाप reforming from hydrocarbons.
अनेक अन्य विधि हैं known including electrolysis और thermolysis.
in 2006, the United राज्य थी अनुमानित to have a उत्पादन क्षमता of 11 million टन of हाइड्रोजन.
5 लाख टन of हाइड्रोजन यहूद consumed on-site in आयल शोधन, and in the उत्पादन of ammonia ( haber process ) and methanol ( कटौती of कार्बन monoxide ).
0.4 लाख tonnes यहूद an incidental by-product of the chlor-alkali प्रक्रम.
Hydrogen उत्पादन is an अनुमानित $ 100 अरब उद्योग.
a आधार point ( often denoted as bp, colloquially referred to in the बहुवचन as `` bips '', भी known as a `` बीप '' ) is a unit बराबर to one hundredth of a percentage point, or one भाग प्रति टेन हजार, 1/10000.
the वही unit is भी ( rarely ) called a permyriad, वस्तुतः अर्थ 'for ( every ) असंख्य ( टेन हजार ) ', और in that कॉन्टेक्स्ट is लिखा साथ जिससे looks जैसे a percent sign ( % ) with two अतिरिक्त zeroes at the समाप्त ( जैसे a stylized रूप of the four zeros in the denominator, हालांकि it originates as a natural extension of the प्रतिशत ( % ) और permille ( ‰ ) signs ).
a basis point is पारिभाषित as:
1 आधार point = 1 permyriad = एक one-hundredth percent
1 bp = 1 = 0.01 % = 0.1‰ = 10−4 = = 0.0001
1 % = 100 bp = 100
आधार points हैं used as a सुविधाजनक unit of measurement in contexts जहाँ प्रतिशत मतभेद of less than 1 % are discussed.
The सबसे आम उदाहरण is ब्याज दरों, जहाँ differences in interest दरों of कम than 1 % प्रति साल are प्रायः meaningful to talk about.
For example, a difference of 0.10 percentage अंक is समतुल्य to a change of 10 आधार अंक ( e.g. a 4.67 % रेट increases by 10 basis अंक to 4.77 % ).
Like प्रतिशत अंक, आधार points avoid the ambiguity between सापेक्ष and absolute discussions परिचय ब्याज rates by dealing only with the absolute change in numeric मान of a रेट.
लिये example, if a रपट says there रै महरूम a `` 1 % increase '' from a 10 % ब्याज rate, this could refer to an बढ़ाएँ either from 10 % to 10.1 % ( सापेक्ष, 1 % of 10 % ), or इससे 10 % to 11 % ( absolute, 1 % plus 10 % ).
if, however, the report says वहीँ रै महरूम a `` 10 basis पाइंट बढ़ाएँ '' from a 10 % interest रेट, then we जान कि the ब्याज rate of 10 % has increased by 0.10 % ( the absolute बदलें ) to a 10.1 % rate.
it is आम अभ्यास in the financial उद्योग to use basis अंक to denote a रेट बदलें in a वित्तीय यंत्र, or the अंतर ( स्प्रेड ) between दो ब्याज दरों, सहित the yields of fixed-income securities.
चूंकि certain लोन and bonds may commonly be कोटेड in संबंध to some अनुक्रमणिका or underlying सुरक्षा, वे होगा प्रायः be कोटेड as a spread over ( or अंतर्गत ) the index.
लिये उदाहरण, a ऋण कि bears interest of 0.50 % प्रति annum ऊपर the लंदन Interbank offered रेट ( LIBOR ) is कहा to be 50 basis अंक over libor, जिससे is commonly expressed as `` l+50bps '' or बस `` l+50 ''.
the पद `` basis point '' रै its origins in व्यापार the `` basis '' or the spread between दो interest rates.
चूंकि the आधार is प्रायः small, ये are quoted multiplied up by 10000, और hence a `` पूरा पाइंट '' गति in the `` basis '' is a basis पाइंट.
कंट्रास्ट with pips in fx forward markets.
the relationship between प्रतिशत changes और basis अंक can be summarized as फ़ॉलो : 1 percentage पाइंट बदलें = 100 आधार अंक, and 0.01 प्रतिशत अंक = 1 आधार पाइंट.
So, a बंध जिनकी yield increases from 5 % to 5.5 % is said to बढ़ाएँ by 50 आधार points ; or interest rates कि have risen 1 percentage पाइंट हैं said to have increased by 100 basis points.
The अंग्रेजों royal Family is the group of बंद रिश्तेदारों of the monarch of the संयुक्त Kingdom.
the term is भी commonly applied to the same group of लोगों जो हैं the संबंध of the monarch in her or उसके भूमिका as sovereign of any of the अन्य राष्ट्रमंडल realms, यूँ sometimes at variance साथ आधिकारिक national शर्तें for the family.
Members of the Royal Family belong to, either by जनम or marriage, the हाउस of विंडसर, चूंकि 1917, जब George V बदला the नाम of the royal हाउस from Saxe-Coburg और gotha.
This decision थी primarily लिया because ब्रिटेन और her साम्राज्य were at war साथ जर्मनी and दिए the British royal परिवार 's दमदार जर्मनी ancestry ; it थी felt कि इसके पब्लिक image could be improved by चुनना a more अंग्रेजों house name.
the new नाम चुनी, Windsor, had absolutely no कनेक्शन other than as the नाम of the castle which थी and continues to be a royal निवास.
हालांकि in the United किंगडम there is no strict विधिक or formal definition of who is or is नहीं a सदस्य of the royal परिवार, and different सूचियाँ will शामिल अलग लोगों, those carrying the style उसके or His majesty ( hm ), or Her or His royal Highness ( HRH ) are सदा माना सदस्यों, which प्रायः परिणाम in the अनुप्रयोग of the पद to the monarch, the consort of the monarch, the widowed consorts of पिछला monarchs, the children of the monarch और previous monarchs, the male-line grandchildren of the monarch and पिछला monarchs, और the spouses और the widows of a monarch 's and previous monarch 's sons and male-line पोते.
On 30 November 1917, King जार्ज V issued Letters Patent धमक who हैं सदस्यों of the royal Family ; the text of the सूचना इससे the लंदन गजट is as follows:
In 1996, Her majesty the Queen परिवर्धित ये Letters पेटेंट, as थी evidenced by इस सूचना from the लंदन Gazette:
in 2013 Letters पेटेंट were जारी to extend a शीर्षक और a style borne by सदस्यों of the Royal परिवार to additional व्यक्तियों to be born, evidenced by this Notice इससे the लंदन gazette:
सदस्यों and relatives of the अंग्रेजों royal परिवार historically represented the monarch in विभिन्न स्थान throughout the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य, sometimes लिये विस्तारित अवधि as viceroys, or लिये विशिष्ट ceremonies or कार्यक्रम.
Today, वे प्रायः perform ceremonial और social कर्तव्य throughout the संयुक्त किंगडम और विदेश on निमित्त of the संयुक्त Kingdom.
Aside from the monarch, उनके तभी संवैधानिक role in the अफेयर्स of सरकारी is to serve, if योग्य and जब नियुक्त by अक्षर patent, as a काउंसलर of राज्य, two or more of जिसको exercise the प्राधिकार of the क्राउन ( भीतर stipulated हद ) in the indisposal or absence from the अंग्रेजों फ्रेम of the monarch.
in the अन्य realms of the राष्ट्रमंडल रॉयल्टी do नहीं serve as counsellors of राज्य.
however in each ऐसे फ्रेम the monarch 's family सदस्यों may act on behalf of, हैं वित्तपोषित by, और represent the sovereign of that particular राज्य, और नहीं the United किंगडम.
The महारानी, उसके consort, उसके children और grandchildren, as खूब as सब पूर्व अधिपति ' children और grandchildren hold स्थान in the पहला sections of the आधिकारिक आदेश of precedence in इंग्लैण्ड और Wales, स्कॉटलैंड, और उत्तरी Ireland.
पत्नियां of the कहा enjoy their husbands ' पूर्वता, and पतियों of राजकुमारियों are unofficially लकिन habitually लगाई साथ उनके पत्नियां as well.
However, the महारानी बदला the निजी order of पूर्वता in the royal Family in पक्ष of राजकुमारियों ऐनी और एलेक्जेंड्रा, जो henceforth take private पूर्वता over the Duchess of Cornwall, who is वरना the फ्रेम 's highest ranking स्त्री after the महारानी herself.
She किया not alter the relative पूर्वता of अन्य born-princesses, ऐसे as the बेटियां of उसके younger बेटे.
हैती ( ; haitian Creole ayiti ), officially the गणतंत्र of हैती ( ; ), is a Caribbean देश.
It occupies the पश्चिमी, छोटी portion of the island of हिस्पानिओला, in the वृहद Antillean archipelago, जिससे it साझा with the Dominican Republic.
ayiti ( जमीन of ऊँची kyu ) थी the indigenous taíno or amerindian नाम for the island.
the country 's highest पाइंट is Pic la Selle, at.
the कुल क्षेत्रफल of हैती is and इसके capital is port-au-prince.
haitian क्रियोल और French are the official भाषाएं.
Haiti 's क्षेत्रीय, ऐतिहासिक, और ethno-linguistic स्थिति is अद्वितीय लिये अनेक कारण.
It थी the first स्वतंत्र स्वदेश of Latin America and the Caribbean, the पहला ब्लैक -led republic in the संसार, और the दूसरी गणतंत्र in the americas जब it gained स्वतंत्रता in 1804 as भाग of a कामयाब slave revolution स्थायी nearly a decade.
in 2012, Haiti announced इसके intention to seek associate सदस्यता status in the African Union.
हैती is the most populous of the predominantly Francophone independent राष्ट्र in the americas.
it is एक of only दो स्वतंत्र nations in the Americas ( साथ साथ Canada ) to designate फ्रेंच as an official भाषा ; the अन्य french-speaking क्षेत्रों are all विदेशी départements, or collectivités, of France.
हैती is the सबसे populous पूरा member-state of the caribbean Community ( caricom ).
It is the poorest देश in the Americas as measured by the Human विकास अनुक्रमणिका.
राजनैतिक हिंसा has occurred regularly throughout इसके history, अग्रणी to government अस्थिरता.
Most recently, in फ़रवरी 2004, a तख्तापलट d'état originating in the north of the country मजबूर the इस्तीफा and निर्वासन of President jean-bertrand aristide.
A अस्थायी government took कंट्रोल साथ सुरक्षा provided by the संयुक्त Nations स्थिरीकरण मिशन in हैती ( minustah ).
michel Martelly, the वर्तमान अध्यक्ष, थी निर्वाचित in the haitian general चुनाव, 2011.
the island has था a इतिहास of destructive भूकंप.
A 7.0 magnitude भूकंप struck हैती on 12 जनवरी 2010 और तबाह Port-au-Prince.
The highest reliable मौत गिनती थी अनुमानित at 220,000.
haitian सरकारी estimates were higher.
The अध्यक्षीय राजमहल, पार्लियामेंट और many अन्य महत्वपूर्ण structures यहूद destroyed, साथ साथ अनगिनत homes and businesses, leaving सैंकड़ों of हज़ारों of लोगों homeless.
the देश has yet to recover from the 2010 earthquake ( and subsequent incidents ) due to दोनो the गंभीरता of the क्षति Haiti endured in 2010, as well as a सरकारी कि थी अप्रभावी खूब पहले the earthquake.
संयुक्त राज्य सहायता संगठन have दान $ 2 billion.
Combined साथ other अंतरराष्ट्रीय दान, ये निधि are intended to योगदान to the rebuilding of the country.
The खूनी beetroots is the pseudonym of Sir bob कॉर्नेलियस Rifo, the इतालवी इलेक्ट्रो हाउस और dance-punk music निर्माता, dj और फ़ोटोग्राफ़र.
the खूनी beetroots is well-known लिये the ब्लैक Venom मुखौटा he wears दौरान प्रदर्शन.
In fact, the तभी identifying public feature of Rifo is the साल `` 1977 '' tattooed आरपार उसके छाती, which is दोनो the year that the निर्माता और punk-rock was born.
`` The खूनी beetroots dj set '' contains Sir bob कॉर्नेलियस rifo और टॉमी Tea.
A Motorola Advisor alphanumeric पेजर प्रयुक्त in Brazil in the 1990s, operated by teletrim
A पेजर is a बेतार दूरसंचार device that receives and प्रदर्शक numeric or text messages, or receives और announces आवाज़ संदेश.
one-way pagers can only receive messages, जबकि जवाब pagers and two-way pagers can भी acknowledge, जवाब to, and originate संदेश using an internal ट्रांसमीटर.
pagers operate as भाग of a paging प्रणाली जिससे शामिल one or more फिक्स्ड ट्रांसमीटरों ( or in the मामला of response pagers और two-way pagers, one or more आधार stations ), as well as a क्रमांक of pagers carried by mobile उपयोक्ता.
ये प्रणालियों can range from a restaurant system साथ a सिंगल low-power ट्रांसमीटर, to a देशभर प्रणाली साथ thousands of high-power base स्टेशन.
एक of the पहला व्यावहारिक paging सेवाएं was launched in 1950 लिये physicians in the नई York नगर क्षेत्रफल.
Physicians सशुल्क us $ 12 प्रति माह लिये the service और carried a ( 6 oz ) पेजर that would प्राप्त फोन संदेश भीतर ( 25 mi ) of a सिंगल ट्रांसमीटर मीनार.
The प्रणाली थी manufactured by the reevesound कम्पनी और संचालित by telanswerphone.
in 1960, John फ्रांसिस Mitchell संयुक्त elements of मोटोरोला 's walkie talkie और automobile रेडियो technologies to बनाएँ the first transistorized पेजर, and इससे इस point, paging प्रौद्योगिकी continued to advance, and पेजर adoption जारी to expand, जबतक the जल्दी 1990s.
however, by the mid-1990s, as cellular technologies became cheaper और more widely available, advanced services began to displace paging as a commercial उत्पाद.
Today, pagers exist largely as niche उत्पाद, ढूंढना preferential use in अनुप्रयोग such as अस्पताल, पब्लिक सुरक्षा, और retail locations जहाँ उनके सादगी, ऊँची विश्वसनीयता, और कम cost represent significant advantages.
Reevesville is a कस्बा in Dorchester County, दक्षिण Carolina, संयुक्त राज्य.
The जनसांख्यिकी was 196 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
as पारिभाषित by the u.S. दफ्तर of प्रबन्धन और बजट, और प्रयुक्त by the U.S. जनसांख्यिकी Bureau लिये सांख्यिकीय उद्देश्य तभी, reevesville is शामिल भीतर the charleston-north charleston-summerville metropolitan क्षेत्रफल.
Frida kahlo de Rivera ( born magdalena कार्मेन frieda kahlo y Calderón ; July 6, 1907 – जुलाई 13, 1954 ) was a Mexican चित्रकार, born in Coyoacán, जो is best ज्ञात लिये उसके self-portraits.
Kahlo 's जीवन began और ended in Mexico नगर, in her घर ज्ञात as the ब्लू हाउस.
वो दिया उसके जनम date as July 7, 1910, but उसके birth प्रमाणपत्र shows जुलाई 6, 1907.
kahlo had allegedly चाही the साल of her जनम to coincide साथ the साल of the शुरूआत of the Mexican revolution so that her life would शुरू साथ the birth of आधुनिक Mexico.
Her work रै been celebrated in मैक्सिको as emblematic of नेशनल और स्वदेशी परंपरा, और by नारीवादी for इसके uncompromising चित्रण of the मादा अनुभव और form.
मैक्सिकन संस्कृति और Amerindian सांस्कृतिक परंपरा हैं महत्वपूर्ण in her कार्य, which has been sometimes characterized as Naïve आर्ट or लोक आर्ट.
Her work रै also महरूम described as `` surrealist '', और in 1938 आंद्रे ब्रेटन, principal initiator of the surrealist गति, described kahlo 's आर्ट as a `` रिबन around a bomb ''.
kahlo had a volatile marriage with the प्रसिद्ध Mexican कलाकार डिएगो Rivera.
She suffered lifelong स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं.
Many of उसके health problems were the परिणाम of a ट्रैफ़िक दुर्घटना she बच as a किशोरावस्था.
recovering from उसके चोटों isolated उसके इससे other लोगों and इस isolation बहकावे her works, अनेक of जिससे हैं self-portraits of एक sort or another.
Kahlo सुझाया, `` I पेंट myself because I am so प्रायः alone और because I am the विषय I जान बेहतरीन. ''
वो भी stated, `` i was born a कुतिया.
I थी born a चित्रकार. ''
300px
theresienwiese on the day before oktoberfest 2006
oktoberfest is a 16-day पर्व celebrating beer आयोजित annually in Munich, बायर्न, जर्मनी, running from late September to the first वीकेंड in अक्तूबर.
It is one of the most प्रसिद्ध events in Germany और is the संसार 's largest मेला, साथ अधिक than 6 million लोगों इससे around the world उपस्थित the इवेंट every साल.
to the स्थानीय, it is नहीं पुकारा Oktoberfest, but `` die wiesn '', बाद the colloquial नाम of the fairgrounds themselves.
the Oktoberfest is an महत्वपूर्ण भाग of Bavarian संस्कृति, having been held चूंकि 1810.
अन्य शहरों across the संसार भी hold Oktoberfest celebrations, modeled after the असली म्यूनिख इवेंट.
the म्यूनिख Oktoberfest originally took प्लेस दौरान the सोलह दिनों up to, and सहित, the first संडे in अक्तूबर.
In 1994, the schedule थी परिवर्धित in जवाब to जर्मनी reunification so that if the पहला संडे in October जलप्रपात on the 1st or 2nd, तब the festival होता go on जबतक October 3 ( जर्मनी एकता दिन ).
यूँ, the पर्व is अभी 17 दिनों जब the पहला संडे is अक्तूबर 2 और 18 दिनों जब it is अक्तूबर 1.
In 2010, the पर्व lasted until the first Monday in अक्तूबर, to चिह्नित the वर्षगांठ of the इवेंट.
the पर्व is आयोजित in an area नामित the Theresienwiese ( फ़ील्ड, or meadow, of Therese ), प्रायः called wiesn लिये short, स्तिथ near म्यूनिख 's center.
विशाल quantities of oktoberfest बियर are consumed, with लगभग 7 लाख liters परोसा दौरान the 16 दिन festival in 2007.
विज़िटर may भी enjoy a wide किस्में of traditional food such as Hendl ( मुर्गा ), schweinebraten ( रोस्ट पोर्क ), Schweinshaxe ( grilled हैम ओल ), steckerlfisch ( ग्रील्ड मछली on a स्टिक ), Würstl ( sausages ) साथ with Brezeln ( pretzel ), knödel ( आलू or ब्रैड dumplings ), Käsespätzle ( चीज noodles ), reiberdatschi ( आलू pancakes ), Sauerkraut or Rotkohl/Blaukraut ( red गोभी ) along साथ ऐसे bar delicacies as obatzda ( a spiced cheese-butter spread ) और Weisswurst ( a white sausage ).
a platter साथ cheese and garnishes
Wheels of Gouda
चीज is a generic term लिये a विविध समूह of milk-based food products.
चीज is उत्पादित in wide-ranging जायका, बनावट, और फ़ॉर्म.
Cheese consists of proteins और fat इससे मिल्क, प्रायः the milk of गायों, भैंस, बकरियों, or शीप.
it is उत्पादित by जामन of the मिल्क प्रोटीन casein.
Typically, the मिल्क is acidified और जोड of the एंजाइम rennet कल्याणकारी जामन.
the solids हैं separated और pressed into फाइनल रूप.
Some cheeses have molds on the rind or throughout.
सबसे cheeses melt at cooking temperature.
सैंकड़ों of प्रकार of चीज from विभिन्न देशों are उत्पादित.
Their शैलियाँ, textures and flavors निर्भर on the origin of the milk ( including the एनिमल 's diet ), whether वे have been pasteurized, the butterfat सामग्री, the bacteria और मोल्ड, the processing, और वृद्धावस्था.
herbs, मसाले, or लकडी smoke may be प्रयुक्त as flavoring एजेंटों.
the पीला to रेड color of अनेक cheeses, such as रेड लीसेस्टर, is सामान्यतः formed from adding annatto.
लिये a few cheeses, the मिल्क is curdled by adding acids ऐसे as सिरका or नीबू रस.
Most cheeses are acidified to a lesser उपाधि by bacteria, जिससे फेरे milk sugars into लैक्टिक acid, तब the जोड of rennet completes the curdling.
शाकाहारी विकल्प to rennet हैं available ; सबसे हैं produced by fermentation of the कवक mucor miehei, but others have been निकाली इससे various प्रजाति of the cynara thistle family.
चीज is valued लिये इसके portability, long जीवन, और high सामग्री of मोटे, प्रोटीन, calcium, and phosphorus.
चीज is अधिक कॉम्पैक्ट और रै a longer शेल्फ life than मिल्क, although कैसा long a cheese होगा keep may depend on the type of चीज ; labels on पैकेट्स of चीज प्रायः अर्जी that a cheese should be खपत within three to five दिनों of opening.
generally बोलना, hard cheeses पिछला longer than नरम cheeses, ऐसे as Brie or बकरी 's milk cheese.
cheesemakers near a dairy प्रदेश may benefit from fresher, lower-priced मिल्क, और निम्नतर शिपिंग costs.
the long storage life of कुछ चीज, विशेषकर if it is encased in a protective rind, allows selling when markets are favorable.
अतिरिक्त संघटक may be added to some cheeses, such as ब्लैक मिर्च, लहसुन, chives or cranberries.
a विशेषज्ञ seller of चीज is sometimes ज्ञात as a cheesemonger.
to become an expert in this फ़ील्ड, like वाइन or cooking, requires some औपचारिक शिक्षा और सालो of चख and hands-on experience.
इस position is typically जिम्मेदार लिये all aspects of the चीज inventory ; selecting the चीज मेनू, खरीदना, receiving, storage, और ripening.
विधिक citation सिग्नल हैं a set of brief abbreviated phrases or words used to clarify the प्राधिकार or significance of a legal citation as it relates to a proposition.
Signals सहायता a रीडर जल्दी discern meaning or उपयोगिता of a particular सन्दर्भ जब the reference itself करता नहीं provide adequate information.
Most citation सिग्नल are लगाई in सामने of the citation to जिससे वे लागू.
For example, in the अनुच्छेद जब writing a विधिक argument, it is important to refer to primary sources.
to assist readers in locating these स्त्रोत, it is वांछनीय to use a मानकीकृत citation स्वरूप.
See generally हार्वर्ड Law Review Association, The bluebook : a वर्दी System of Citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ).
Note, however, कि some न्यायालयों may आवश्यकता कोई legal papers कि हैं सुपुर्द to उन्हें to conform to a अलग citation स्वरूप.
the सिग्नल is the phrase `` देखिए generally, '' which indicates कि the citation `` the bluebook : A वर्दी प्रणाली of citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ) '' provides general पृष्ठभूमि information on the टॉपिक.
Neil एल्डन आर्मस्ट्रांग ( अगस्त 5, 1930 – अगस्त 25, 2012 ) थी an अमरीकी astronaut और the पहला व्यक्ति to चलना on the Moon.
he थी भी an aerospace इंजीनियर, नवल aviator, परीक्षण पायलट, और विश्वविद्यालयों professor.
पहले बनने an astronaut, आर्मस्ट्रांग was an officer in the U.S. Navy and served in the कोरियाई War.
बाद the war, he earned उसके स्नातक 's degree at purdue विश्वविद्यालयों and परोसा as a परीक्षण पायलट at the नेशनल सलाहकार कमेटी लिये aeronautics high-speed उड़ान स्टेशन, अभी ज्ञात as the ड्राइडेन Flight शोध Center, जहाँ he logged over 900 फ़्लाइट.
He बाद समाप्त ग्रैजुएट अध्ययन at the विश्वविद्यालयों of दक्षिणी California.
A participant in the u.S. Air फ़ोर्स 's Man in Space soonest and X-20 dyna-soar इंसान spaceflight programs, आर्मस्ट्रांग joined the नासा Astronaut corps in 1962.
he बना his पहला space उड़ान, as कमांड pilot of Gemini 8, in 1966, becoming नासा 's first civilian astronaut to fly in स्पेस.
On इस मिशन, he performed the पहला docking of two spacecraft, with पायलट दाउद स्कॉट.
Armstrong 's दूसरी and पिछला spaceflight थी as मिशन कमांडर of the अपोलो 11 चंद्रमा लैंडिंग, in July 1969.
On इस मिशन, आर्मस्ट्रांग and बज़ Aldrin descended to the चंद्र surface और खर्च two और a half hours exploring, while Michael कॉलिन्स remained in चंद्र orbit in the कमांड मोड्यूल.
साथ साथ कॉलिन्स और एल्ड्रिन, आर्मस्ट्रांग थी awarded the Presidential पदक of स्वतंत्रता by President Richard Nixon ; in 1978, अध्यक्ष jimmy Carter presented Armstrong the congressional Space पदक of Honor in 1978 ; he and उसके पूर्व crewmates प्राप्त the congressional सुनहरा पदक in 2009.
आर्मस्ट्रांग died in सिनसिनाटी, Ohio, on August 25, 2012, at the आयु of 82, after complications इससे कोरोनरी artery बायपास सर्जरी.
सचिवालय ( March 30, 1970 – अक्तूबर 4, 1989 ) थी an अमरीकी thoroughbred racehorse कि in 1973 became the first u.s. ट्रिपल Crown चैंपियन in 25 years.
He नियत race records in सब तीन कार्यक्रम in the श्रेणी — the केंटकी डर्बी ( 1:59.4 ), the preakness Stakes ( 1:53 ), और the belmont stakes ( 2:24 ) — रिकॉर्ड कि still स्टैंड today.
He is माना to be एक of the greatest thoroughbreds of all समय.
In 1999, ईएसपीएन ranked Secretariat the 35th best खिलाड़ी of the 20th सदी, the उच्चतम ranking racehorse on the सूची url_http.
he क्रमित दूसरी behind man o ' युद्ध in The blood-horse 's सूची of the Top 100 U.S. Racehorses of the 20th Century.
सचिवालय थी sired by Bold Ruler out of somethingroyal, by Princequillo.
He थी foaled at The Meadow in कैरोलीन County, वर्जिनिया.
जैसे his प्रसिद्ध पूर्ववर्ती man o ' युद्ध, सचिवालय थी a विशाल chestnut colt और was दिए the वही उपनाम, `` Big रेड. ''
Secretariat 's grandsire, Nasrullah, is भी the great-great-grandsire of 1977 ट्रिपल क्राउन winner Seattle Slew.
स्वामित्व by पैनी chenery, he थी trained by Lucien Laurin and mainly ridden by Canadian jockey Ron turcotte, साथ with प्रशिक्षु jockey Paul फेलिसियानो ( पहला two दौड़ ), और दिग्गज Eddie मेपल ( last race ).
He raced in Chenery 's Meadow stable 's blue and श्वेत checkered रंगों and his groom थी एडी स्वेद.
Secretariat stood लगभग लम्बा, and weighed, with a 75-inch girth, in his racing प्रधान.
मैड्रिड (, ) is the पूंजी and largest नगर of स्पेन.
the population of the city is roughly 3.3 लाख और the संपूर्ण population of the Madrid metropolitan क्षेत्रफल is गणना to be around 6.5 million.
it is the third-largest city in the यूरोपीय संघ, बाद London और बर्लिन, और its महानगर area is the third-largest in the European Union after लंदन and पेरिस.
the नगर spans a कुल of.
the नगर is located on the Manzanares नदी in the केन्द्र of both the देश and the Community of मैड्रिड ( which comprises the नगर of Madrid, its conurbation and विस्तारित suburbs और villages ) ; this जातियाँ is bordered by the autonomous समुदायों of castile और león and Castile-La Mancha.
as the पूंजी नगर of स्पेन, सीट of government, and निवास of the Spanish monarch, Madrid is also the राजनैतिक, economic and सांस्कृतिक centre of स्पेन.
the वर्तमान महापौर is Ana botella इससे the People 's पार्टी ( pp ).
The मैड्रिड शहरी agglomeration रै the third-largest जीडीपी in the European संघ and its प्रभाव in politics, शिक्षा, entertainment, पर्यावरण, मीडिया, fashion, विज्ञान, संस्कृति, and the कला सब योगदान to its status as एक of the world 's प्रमुख वैश्विक शहरों.
due to its economic आउटपुट, high मानक of जीना, और market आकार, Madrid is माना the प्रमुख वित्तीय केन्द्र of दक्षिणी यूरोपीय and the Iberian Peninsula ; it hosts the सिर कार्यालयों of the विशाल majority of the प्रमुख स्पेनी कंपनियाँ, ऐसे as Telefónica, Iberia or repsol.
Madrid is the सबसे touristic नगर of Spain, the fourth-most touristic of the continent, और the seventh सबसे visited नगर in the संसार according to Forbes.
is the 10th सबसे livable city in the संसार according to Monocle पत्रिका, in इसके 2010 अनुक्रमणिका.
मैड्रिड also ranks among the 12 greenest यूरोपीय शहरों in 2010. < ref name= '' एचटीटीपी : //www.citymayors.com/environment/greenest-cities-europe.html '' > मैड्रिड is फिलहाल a Candidate City for the 2020 Summer Olympics.
Madrid घरों the headquarters of the संसार पर्यटन Organization ( WTO ), belonging to the संयुक्त Nations संगठन ( UN ), the segib, the Organization of ibero-american States ( oei ), और the Public ब्याज oversight फलक ( PIOB ).
it भी hosts प्रमुख अंतरराष्ट्रीय संस्थानों regulators of Spanish : the Standing कमेटी of the संघ of स्पेनी भाषा अकादमियों, मुख्यालय of the royal Spanish अकादमी ( rae ), the Cervantes Institute और the न्यास of तात्कालिक Spanish ( fundéu ).
मैड्रिड organizes fairs as fitur, आरको, SIMO TCI और the Cibeles मैड्रिड फ़ैशन सप्ताह.
While Madrid possesses a आधुनिक अवसंरचना, it रै preserved the dekh and feel of अनेक of इसके ऐतिहासिक neighbourhoods and गलियों.
इसके लैंडमार्क शामिल the royal राजमहल of Madrid ; the teatro Real ( royal थिएटर ) with its लौटी 1850 ओपेरा हाउस ; the Buen Retiro पार्क, संस्थापित in 1631 ; the 19th-century National पुस्तकालयों भवन ( founded in 1712 ) containing कुछ of स्पेन 's ऐतिहासिक अभिलेख ; a विशाल number of National संग्रहालय, and the Golden Triangle of Art, स्तिथ along the paseo डेल प्राडो और comprising तीन आर्ट संग्रहालय : Prado संग्रहालय, the museo nacional centro de arte reina sofía, a संग्रहालय of modern आर्ट, और the Thyssen-Bornemisza संग्रहालय, जिससे completes the shortcomings of the अन्य two संग्रहालय.
cibeles राजमहल और फव्वारा have become the स्मारक प्रतीक of the नगर.
the path of the Via appia और of the Via Appia traiana.
Remains of the appian रास्ता in Rome, निकट quarto miglio
Near रोम.
the Appian रास्ता ( लैटिन और इतालवी : via Appia ) थी one of the earliest और strategically सबसे important रोमन roads of the प्राचीन गणतंत्र.
It connected रोम to brindisi, apulia, in southeast इटली.
इसके importance is indicated by इसके आम name, अंकित by statius :
appia teritur रेजिना longarum viarum
`` the appian रास्ता is the queen of the long roads ''
The सड़क is named after appius claudius Caecus, the रोमन censor जो began और समाप्त the first खण्ड as a military सड़क to the दक्षिण in 312 bc during the Samnite युद्धों.
The Draupner wave, a सिंगल giant वेव measured on नई Year 's Day 1995, finally पुष्टि the अस्तित्व of freak waves, which था previously महरूम considered near-mythical
Rogue waves ( भी ज्ञात as freak लहरें, monster waves, कातिल लहरें, चरम waves, और असामान्य waves ) हैं relatively विशाल और spontaneous ocean surface लहरें कि occur दूर आउट at समुद्र, और are a threat even to विशाल जहाजों और ocean liners.
in oceanography, they हैं अधिक precisely पारिभाषित as लहरें whose ऊँचाई is अधिक than twice the significant वेव ऊँचाई ( SWH ), जिससे is itself पारिभाषित as the औसत of the largest third of waves in a वेव रिकार्ड.
Therefore rogue लहरें are not necessarily the biggest लहरें found at समुद्र ; वे are, बल्कि, surprisingly large waves लिये a दिए समुद्र state.
दुष्ट लहरें seem नहीं to have a single पृथक cause, but occur where शारीरिक कारकों such as high winds और दमदार currents cause लहरें to विलय to create a सिंगल exceptional large wave.
electress sophia of Hanover ( 1630–1714 )
The line of उत्तराधिकार to the British सिंहासन is the ordered अनुक्रम of सब those लोगों योग्य to succeed to the सिंहासन of the संयुक्त किंगडम and the other 15 Commonwealth realms.
The Act of उपनिवेश 1701 bestowed उत्तराधिकार on the Electress sophia of Hanover और her वंशजों while excluding रोमन Catholics.
the अंग्रेजों सरकारी does नहीं publish an official list of सब those in लकीर to सफल, but the कार्य of genealogical authors and amateur शोधकर्ताओं suggests कि वहीँ are several thousand people potentially in line.
At a summit in Perth, पश्चिमी ऑस्ट्रेलिया in 2011, the heads of सरकारी of all 16 राष्ट्रमंडल realms सहमत to लो steps to अपनाना निरपेक्ष primogeniture, end the exclusion of लोगों married to रोमन Catholics, और make अन्य परिवर्तन in the उत्तराधिकार नियम.
the line of succession is भी प्रयुक्त to select the counsellors of State ( और a रीजेंट if the need arises ) under the प्रावधानों of the रीजेंसी अधिनियम 1937.
For पहले versions of the लकीर of उत्तराधिकार, see इतिहास of the अंग्रेजों line of उत्तराधिकार.
Edward Montgomery Clift ( October 17, 1920July 23, 1966 ) was an अमरीकी फिल्मी और स्टेज कर्ता The नई York Times’ obituary विख्यात उसके portrayal of `` मूडी, sensitive यंग मेन ''.
he प्रायः निभाई outsiders और `` victim-heroes '' ; examples शामिल the सोशल climber in जार्ज Stevens 's a प्लेस in the सूर्य, the anguished कैथोलिक priest in हिचकॉक 's i कबूल, the doomed regular soldier रॉबर्ट E. Lee Prewitt in फ्रेड Zinnemann 's इससे Here to शाश्वत, और the यहूदी gi bullied by antisemites in एडवर्ड dmytryk 's the यंग शेर.
बाद, बाद a disfiguring car क्रैश in 1956, और दारू and prescription ड्रग abuse, he became erratic.
Nevertheless important भूमिकाएँ यहूद स्टिल उसके, सहित `` the reckless, alcoholic, mother-fixated rodeo यजमान '' in John Huston 's the misfits, the title भूमिका in हस्टन 's, और the concentration शिविर victim in Stanley Kramer 's निर्णय at nuremberg. ''
Clift received four Academy पुरस्कार nominations during उसके career, three लिये Best कर्ता and एक for बेहतरीन supporting Actor.
The युद्ध on आतंक ( भी ज्ञात as the वैश्विक War on Terrorism ) is a term commonly applied to an अंतरराष्ट्रीय military campaign जिससे प्रारंभ as a result of the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States.
इस resulted in an international सैन्य अभियान to eliminate al-Qaeda और अन्य militant संगठन.
The संयुक्त Kingdom and अनेक other NATO और non-nato राष्ट्र participate in the विरोध.
the phrase 'War on आतंक ' was पहला प्रयुक्त by us President George W. बुश on 20 सितंबर 2001.
the बुश administration और the Western media have since प्रयुक्त the term to signify a global सैन्य, political, lawful, और conceptual struggle—targeting both organizations designated as terrorist और regimes अभियुक्त of supporting उन्हें.
It थी typically प्रयुक्त साथ a particular focus on उग्रवादी islamists, al-Qaeda, और अन्य जिहादी समूह.
Although the term is not officially used by the प्रशासन of US अध्यक्ष बराक ओबामा ( which instead uses the पद विदेशी आकस्मिकता आपरेशन ), it is स्टिल commonly used by राजनेता, in the मीडिया and by some aspects of government officially, ऐसे as the United राज्य ' वैश्विक War on आतंक Service पदक.
जर्मनी battleship schleswig-holstein, westerplatte, सितंबर 1, 1939
Destroyer uss Shaw exploding बाद उसके आगे पत्रिका थी detonated during the Attack on Pearl Harbor
The प्रमुख कल्याणकारी of World युद्ध ii यहूद nationalistic मुद्दे, अनसुलझे मुद्दे, और resentments resulting from संसार युद्ध i और the interwar काल in यूरोपीय, in जोड to the प्रभाव of the ग्रेट Depression in the 1930s.
the culmination of कार्यक्रम that led to the outbreak of युद्ध are generally understood to be the 1939 आक्रमण of कैंडल by जर्मनी और Soviet रूस and the 1937 आक्रमण of the गणतंत्र of चीन by the साम्राज्य of जापानी.
ये military aggressions यहूद the परिणाम of निर्णय बना by the authoritarian ruling Nazi elite in Germany और by the नेतृत्व of the Kwantung फौज in जापानी.
संसार War ii प्रारंभ बाद ये aggressive actions were met with an आधिकारिक declaration of युद्ध and/or armed resistance.
the following is a list of देवताओं और other divine और semi-divine figures इससे यूनानी mythology.
the list does not शामिल creatures ; लिये these, देखिए सूची of यूनानी mythological जीव.
the Mitsubishi Galant is an automobile manufactured by Mitsubishi Motors between 1969 और 2012.
The नाम थी निकला from the फ्रेंच word galant, अर्थ `` chivalrous ''.
वहीँ have महरूम nine पृथक पीढियां, और संचयी sales अभी exceed पाँच लाख.
It began as a compact सेडान, लकिन over the कोर्स of इसके जीवन रै evolved into a larger mid-size car.
आरंभिक उत्पादन was only आधारित in Japan, लकिन चूंकि 1994 the American मार्केट रै been served by वाहनों समवेत at the former diamond-star मोटर्स ( DSM ) सुविधा in Normal, इलिनोइस.
Blood दबाव ( BP ), sometimes referred to as arterial रक्त pressure, is the pressure exerted by circulating रक्त upon the walls of blood बरतन, and is one of the principal vital signs.
When प्रयुक्त without further specification, `` रक्त दबाव '' प्रायः refers to the arterial pressure of the प्रणालीगत परिसंचरण.
दौरान प्रत्येक heartbeat, रक्त pressure varies between a अधिकतम ( systolic ) और a न्यूनतम ( diastolic ) दबाव.
the रक्त दबाव in the circulation is प्रधानतया due to the pumping action of the heart.
Differences in औसत रक्त दबाव are responsible लिये blood प्रवाह इससे एक स्थान to another in the परिसंचरण.
the रेट of mean रक्त flow depends on the प्रतिरोध to flow presented by the रक्त बरतन.
औसत रक्त दबाव decreases as the circulating रक्त moves दूर इससे the heart through धमनियों और capillaries due to viscous नुकसान of उर्जा.
औसत blood दबाव बूंदें over the पूरे परिसंचरण, although most of the पतन occurs साथ the small arteries and arterioles.
गम्भीरता affects रक्त दबाव via hydrostatic forces ( e.g., दौरान standing ) और valves in veins, श्वास, and pumping from संकुचन of skeletal मांसपेशियां भी influence blood pressure in veins.
रक्त दबाव बगैर further specification प्रायः refers to the प्रणालीगत arterial दबाव measured at a व्यक्ति 's अपर भुजा और is a measure of the pressure in the brachial धमनी, the प्रमुख artery in the upper arm.
a person’s blood pressure is प्रायः expressed in शर्तें of the systolic दबाव over diastolic pressure और is measured in millimetres of mercury ( mmhg ), लिये example 120/80.
a veto – Latin for `` I forbid '' – is the शक्ति ( प्रयुक्त by an officer of the राज्य, for example ) to unilaterally stop an आधिकारिक कार्रवाई, विशेषकर the enactment of विधान.
a वीटो can be निरपेक्ष, as for instance in the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सुरक्षा Council, whose स्थाई members ( चीन, फ़्रांस, रूस, संयुक्त किंगडम, संयुक्त राज्य of America ) can ब्लाक कोई रेज़ोल्यूशन.
or it can be सीमित, as in the legislative प्रक्रम of the संयुक्त राज्य, where a two-thirds vote in दोनो the हाउस and सीनेट may ओवरराइड a अध्यक्षीय veto of legislation.
a वीटो only gives शक्ति to रोकें changes, नहीं to अपनाना उन्हें ( मगर for the विरल `` amendatory वीटो '' ).
यूँ a वीटो allows इसके होल्डर to protect the औकात quo.
the concept of a veto देह originated साथ the Roman consuls and tribunes.
Either of the two consuls पकड़कर दफ्तर in a दिए साल could block a military or सिविल निर्णय by the अन्य ; any ट्रिब्यून था the शक्ति to unilaterally ब्लाक विधान passed by the रोमन सीनेट.
गंधक डाइऑक्साइड ( भी गंधक डाइऑक्साइड ) is the रासायनिक यौगिक with the सूत्र.
it is a toxic गैस साथ a pungent, irritating smell, कि is released by volcanoes and in विभिन्न औद्योगिक processes.
चूंकि कोयले और petroleum प्रायः contain गंधक यौगिकों, उनके दहन generates गंधक dioxide जबतक the sulfur यौगिकों हैं removed पहले burning the fuel.
further oxidation of SO2, usually in the presence of a catalyst ऐसे as NO2, forms h2so4, and यूँ एसिड बरसात.
गंधक डाइऑक्साइड emissions are also a precursor to particulates in the atmosphere.
दोनो of these impacts are cause लिये चिंता over the पर्यावरणीय प्रभाव of ये fuels.
myasthenia gravis ( इससे Greek μύς `` मांसपेशी '', `` कमज़ोरी '', और `` गंभीर '' ; abbreviated MG ) is an असंक्राम्य neuromuscular disease leading to fluctuating muscle कमज़ोरी और fatigability.
it is an autoimmune विकार, in which weakness is caused by circulating antibodies that ब्लाक acetylcholine receptors at the postsynaptic neuromuscular जंक्शन, inhibiting the excitatory effects of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine on nicotinic receptors throughout neuromuscular junctions.
Myasthenia is treated medically with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors or immunosuppressants, और, in selected cases, thymectomy.
the disease incidence is 3–30 cases per million प्रति year and उठती as a result of increased awareness.
MG must be distinguished from जन्मजात myasthenic syndromes कि can present समान लक्षण लकिन प्रस्ताव no response to immunosuppressive उपचार.
Reflective मुड़ nematic द्रव crystal प्रदर्शक.
polarizing filter film साथ a लंबवत axis to polarize लाइट as it enters.
कांच substrate with ito electrodes.
the आकार of ये electrodes will determine the आकार कि होगा appear जब the LCD is turned ON.
लंबवत ridges etched on the सतह हैं smooth.
Twisted nematic द्रव क्रिस्टल.
Glass substrate with आम एलेक्ट्रोड फिल्मी ( ITO ) साथ आड़ा ridges to लकीर up साथ the आड़ा filter.
polarizing filter फिल्मी साथ a आड़ा अक्ष to block/pass लाइट.
परावर्तक surface to भेजें light वापस to viewer.
( In a backlit एलसीडी, this परत is replaced with a लाइट source. )
A liquid-crystal display ( एलसीडी ) is a चपटा फलक प्रदर्शक, electronic विज़ुअल display, or video प्रदर्शक कि उपयोग the लाइट modulating properties of liquid crystals.
द्रव crystals do not emit light directly.
lcds हैं available to प्रदर्शक मनमानी बिंब ( as in a general-purpose कंप्यूटर प्रदर्शक ) or fixed images which can be प्रदर्शित or छुपा, ऐसे as preset शब्द, अंक, और 7-segment displays as in a डिजिटल क्लॉक.
They use the same basic प्रौद्योगिकी, मगर that मनमानी बिंब are made up of a विशाल number of छोटी pixels, while अन्य प्रदर्शक have larger तत्व.
LCDs हैं used in a wide range of applications including कंप्यूटर monitors, टेलीविज़न, यंत्र panels, वायुयान cockpit प्रदर्शक, and साइनेज.
They are आम in उपभोक्ता डिवाइस ऐसे as वीडियो players, गेमिंग डिवाइस, clocks, watches, calculators, and telephones, and have replaced कैथोड रे ट्यूब ( crt ) प्रदर्शक in most applications.
They हैं available in a wider दायरा of स्क्रीन sizes than crt and plasma प्रदर्शक, and चूंकि वे do not use phosphors, they do नहीं suffer image burn-in.
lcds are, however, susceptible to image persistence.
the एलसीडी स्क्रीन is अधिक energy कुशल और can be disposed of अधिक सकुशल than a crt.
इसके low electrical शक्ति खपत enables it to be used in बैटरी -powered इलेक्ट्रॉनिक equipment.
it is an electronically modulated optical यंत्र made up of कोई क्रमांक of segments filled साथ द्रव crystals और arrayed in सामने of a लाइट सोर्स ( backlight ) or reflector to उपज बिंब in रंग or monochrome.
द्रव crystals यहूद first खोजा in 1888.
by 2008, विश्वव्यापी बिक्री of टेलीविज़न with एलसीडी screens exceeded सालाना बिक्री of crt units ; the crt became obsolete लिये most उद्देश्य.
the Borgata होटल कसीनो and स्पा is a luxury होटल, casino, और spa in Atlantic नगर, New जर्सी, संयुक्त राज्य.
it is स्वामित्व by मरीना ज़िला विकास, a joint venture between boyd गेमिंग और a divesture trust स्थापित by MGM Resorts International.
the $ 1.1 अरब कसीनो होटल features 2,002 rooms and is the largest होटल in New Jersey.
The borgata खोली in July 2003 as a Las Vegas-style megaresort and is the top-grossing कसीनो in अटलांटिक नगर.
A बोतल of ऊँची potency b-complex विटामिन supplement गोलियां.
a विटामिन ( or ) is an सशुल्क यौगिक जरूरी by an organism as a vital nutrient in सीमित amounts.
an organic रासायनिक यौगिक ( or related नियत of compounds ) is पुकारा a विटामिन जब it can नहीं be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism, और must be प्राप्त from the diet.
Thus, the पद is सशर्त both on the हालातों and on the particular सजीव.
For उदाहरण, एस्कॉर्बिक acid ( विटामिन C ) is a विटामिन लिये humans, but नहीं लिये सबसे अन्य animals, and biotin and vitamin D are जरूरी in the इंसान आहार तभी in निश्चित हालातों.
By सम्मेलन, the पद विटामिन includes neither अन्य अनिवार्य nutrients, ऐसे as dietary खनिज, अनिवार्य fatty acids, or essential amino acids ( which हैं needed in larger amounts than विटामिन ) nor the large number of अन्य nutrients that प्रचार health लकिन are otherwise जरूरी less often.
तेरह विटामिन हैं universally पहचाना at उपस्थित.
Vitamins हैं classified by उनके biological और chemical activity, नहीं उनके ढांचा.
यूँ, each `` विटामिन '' refers to a क्रमांक of vitamer यौगिकों कि सब show the biological activity संबद्ध साथ a particular vitamin.
ऐसे a नियत of chemicals is grouped अंतर्गत an alphabetized विटामिन `` generic descriptor '' शीर्षक, ऐसे as `` विटामिन A ``, which शामिल the compounds retinal, रेटिनॉल, और four known carotenoids.
vitamers by definition हैं convertible to the क्रियाशील रूप of the विटामिन in the देह, और हैं sometimes inter-convertible to one another, as well.
Vitamins have diverse biochemical functions.
कुछ have hormone-like कृत्यों as regulators of mineral चयापचय ( ऐसे as vitamin d ), or regulators of cell और ऊतक growth और differentiation ( such as some फ़ॉर्म of vitamin a ).
अन्य फलन as antioxidants ( e.g., vitamin E और sometimes विटामिन C ).
The largest क्रमांक of विटामिन ( ऐसे as B complex vitamins ) फलन as precursors लिये enzyme cofactors, that सहायता एंजाइमों in उनके कार्य as catalysts in चयापचय.
in this भूमिका, vitamins may be tightly बंधी to enzymes as भाग of prosthetic समूह : For उदाहरण, biotin is भाग of एंजाइमों शामिल in बनाना वसीय acids.
Vitamins may भी be कम tightly बंधी to एंजाइम catalysts as coenzymes, detachable अणुओं कि function to carry रासायनिक groups or electrons between अणुओं.
For example, फोलिक एसिड may carry मिथाइल, formyl, और methylene groups in the कोशिका.
Although these roles in assisting enzyme-substrate reactions are विटामिन ' best-known function, the अन्य विटामिन कृत्यों हैं बराबर important.
जबतक the mid-1930s, जब the first commercial yeast-extract vitamin B complex और semi-synthetic विटामिन c supplement टैबलेट यहूद sold, विटामिन यहूद obtained solely through food सेवन, और परिवर्तन in diet ( जिससे, लिये उदाहरण, could occur दौरान a particular growing ऋतु ) प्रायः greatly altered the प्रकार और amounts of विटामिन ingested.
however, विटामिन have been उत्पादित as कमोडिटी रसायन और बना widely available as inexpensive semisynthetic और synthetic-source multivitamin dietary और food supplements and एडिटिव, since the middle of the 20th century.
संसार मुस्लिम population by percentage ( pew शोध Center, 2009 )
World Muslim जनसांख्यिकी in लाखो
islam is the world 's दूसरी largest धर्म बाद christianity.
According to a 2010 study, islam has 1.62 billion adherents, बनाना up over 23 % of the संसार जनसांख्यिकी.
islam is the predominant धर्म in the मध्य East, in Sahel, in the सींग of अफ़्रीकी and northern अफ़्रीकी, and in some भाग of Asia.
विशाल communities of मुसलमान हैं भी found in चीन, the Balkans, और Russia.
Other भाग of the world host large Muslim अप्रवासी communities ; in पश्चिमी यूरोपीय, लिये instance, islam is the second largest धर्म after christianity, जहाँ it represents 6 % of the कुल population.
according to the Pew Research बीच in 2010 there यहूद 49 Muslim-majority देशों.
around 62 % of the संसार 's मुसलमान सजीव in दक्षिण and southeast एशिया, with over 1 billion adherents.
The largest Muslim देश is इंडोनेशिया, घर to 12.7 % of the world 's मुसलमान, followed by Pakistan ( 11.0 % ), इण्डिया ( 10.9 % ), और बांग्लादेश ( 9.2 % ).
About 20 % of मुसलमान live in अरब देशों.
in the मध्य ईस्ट, the non-arab देशों of तुर्कों और Iran हैं the largest Muslim-majority countries ; in अफ़्रीकी, मिश्र और Nigeria have the सबसे populous मुस्लिम समुदायों.
a पढ़ाई conducted by the pew शोध बीच in 2010 और released जनवरी 2011 मिला that there हैं 1.62 अरब Muslims around the world.
the पढ़ाई मिला more Muslims in the संयुक्त किंगडम than in लेबनान and अधिक in चीन than in सीरियाई.
rhode Island ( or ), officially the State of rhode द्वीप और Providence बागानों, is a state in the New इंग्लैण्ड region of the United राज्य.
Rhode द्वीप is the smallest in area, the आठवीं least populous, लकिन the दूसरी सबसे densely populated of the 50 us states behind नई जर्सी.
Rhode द्वीप is bordered by Connecticut to the वेस्ट और मैसाचुसेट्स to the उत्तर और ईस्ट, और it साझा a water boundary साथ नई York 's Long Island to the southwest.
rhode द्वीप थी the पहला of the 13 असली colonies to घोषित स्वतंत्रता from British नियम, declaring itself स्वतंत्र on may 4, 1776, two months पहले कोई other उपनिवेश.
the State was भी the last of the thirteen असली colonies to ratify the United राज्य Constitution.
rhode द्वीप 's आधिकारिक nickname is `` the Ocean State '', a reference to the State 's geography, चूंकि rhode द्वीप रै several large bays and inlets कि राशि to about 14 % of इसके total area.
इसके जमीन area is, लकिन इसके कुल क्षेत्रफल is significantly larger.
Dubai ( ; ', ) is a city in the संयुक्त अरब अमीरात, located भीतर the अमीर of the वही name.
the emirate of Dubai is स्तिथ on the southeast coast of the पारसी Gulf on the arabian प्रायद्वीप and is एक of the सात अमीरात कि make up the देश.
it has the largest जनसांख्यिकी in the uae ( 2,106,177 ) और the second-largest जमीन territory by क्षेत्रफल ( 4,114 km2 ) बाद Abu धाबी.
Dubai और abu धाबी, the नेशनल पूंजी, are the तभी two emirates to have वीटो power over critical matters of national महत्व in the country 's विधानमंडल.
the नगर of दुबई is स्तिथ on the emirate 's northern तटरेखा और heads up the Dubai-Sharjah-Ajman महानगर area.
दुबई is आजकल often misperceived as a देश or city-state और, in कुछ cases, the uae as a पूरे has महरूम वर्णित as 'dubai '.
the earliest जिक्र of Dubai is in 1095 AD, and the earliest recorded उपनिवेश in the प्रदेश dates from 1799.
the Sheikhdom of दुबई थी formally established in 1833 by Sheikh Maktoum bin Butti Al-Maktoum जब he persuaded around 800 सदस्यों of उसके tribe of the Bani Yas, जीना in कया was तब the दूसरी सऊदी State और अभी भाग of सऊदी Arabia, to follow उसे to the Dubai Creek by the Abu Falasa गोत्र of the bani Yas.
it remained अंतर्गत the जनजाति 's कंट्रोल जब the United किंगडम assumed protection of the Sheikhdom in 1892 and joined the nascent संयुक्त अरब अमीरात upon स्वतंत्रता in 1971 as the देश 's second emirate.
Its strategic भौगोलिक स्थान made the कस्बा an महत्वपूर्ण व्यापार hub and by the शुरूआत of the 20th सदी, दुबई was already an important regional port.
आज, दुबई has उभरा as a कॉस्मोपॉलिटन metropolis कि has grown steadily to become a वैश्विक नगर और a कारोबार और सांस्कृतिक hub of the Middle ईस्ट और the पारसी गल्फ region.
हालांकि दुबई 's economy थी historically निर्मित on the आयल industry, the emirate 's Western-style मॉडल of कारोबार ड्राइव इसके अर्थव्यवस्था साथ the प्रमुख revenues अभी coming from पर्यटन, रियल एस्टेट, और वित्तीय सेवाएं.
दुबई रै recently attracted world attention through अनेक अभिनव large निर्माण प्रोजेक्ट and खेल events.
The नगर रै become symbolic for इसके skyscrapers और high-rise buildings, ऐसे as the world 's tallest burj खलीफा, in addition to ambitious development projects सहित man-made आइलैंड्स, hotels, and some of the largest खरीदारी malls in the प्रदेश और the world.
इस increased attention रै भी highlighted labor and human rights issues concerning the नगर 's largely South एशियाई सशुल्क workforce.
Dubai 's प्रॉपर्टी market अनुभवी a प्रमुख deterioration in 2008–2009 as a परिणाम of the विश्वव्यापी economic downturn following the financial crisis of 2007-2008.
however, Dubai has बना a स्थिर और क्रमिक रिकवरी with सहायता coming इससे neighboring अमीरात.
the handful of नई प्रोजेक्ट कि are in the पाइपलाइन have महरूम समर्थ to सहायता दुबई रियल estate make a comeback.
as of 2012, Dubai is the 22nd most महंगी city in the संसार, और the सबसे expensive city in the Middle ईस्ट, surpassing इसराईल 's Tel aviv ( 31st ).
Dubai has also been रेटेड as one of the बेहतरीन स्थान to सजीव in the Middle East, सहित by us American वैश्विक consulting firm मर्सर जो रेटेड the नगर as the best place to live in the मध्य ईस्ट in 2011.
the following is a सूची of कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों in the u.S. राज्य of इलिनोइस.
Surface of the Atlantic ocean बैठक the Earth 's ग्रहीय boundary परत और troposphere.
Waves on an समंदर coast.
This एनिमेशन uses धरती science आंकड़ा from a variety of sensors on NASA Earth observing satellites to measure physical oceanography parameters such as ocean currents, समंदर हवाएँ, sea सतह ऊँचाई और समुद्र सतह temperature.
an समंदर ( ; the संसार समंदर of शास्त्रीय antiquity ) is a देह of saline water that composes a large part of a planet 's hydrosphere.
in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of धरती, it refers to एक or all of the major divisions of the ग्रह 's संसार समंदर – वे हैं, in descending order of क्षेत्रफल, the Pacific, अटलांटिक, भारतीय, दक्षिणी ( Antarctic ), और आर्कटिक महासागर.
the शब्द `` समुद्र `` is often used interchangeably with `` समंदर '', but strictly बोलना a sea is a देह of saline जल ( possibly a division of the संसार Ocean ) partly or fully enclosed by land.
धरती is the तभी ग्रह known to have an ocean ( or any विशाल amounts of खोलें द्रव water ).
Approximately 72 % of the ग्रह 's सतह ( ~3.6x108 km2 ) is covered by saline water that is customarily विभाजित into अनेक principal महासागर और छोटी समंदर, साथ the ocean covering लगभग 71 % of the धरती 's सतह.
in terms of the जलमंडल of the Earth, the समंदर contains 97 % of the धरती 's water.
Oceanographers have stated कि आउट of 97 %, only 5 % of the समंदर as a पूरे on धरती रै महरूम explored.
क्युकी it is the प्रिंसिपल घटक of Earth 's hydrosphere, the संसार समंदर is अभिन्न to सब ज्ञात life, फ़ॉर्म भाग of the कार्बन साईकिल, and influences जलवायु और weather पैटर्न.
the कुल आवाज़ is लगभग 1.3 billion घन kilometres ( 310 million cu mi ) साथ an औसत गहराई of.
it is the habitat of 230,000 ज्ञात species, हालांकि much of the ocean 's depths remain unexplored and it is अनुमानित that over two लाख समुद्री प्रजाति मौजूद.
the origin of धरती 's महासागर is still unknown, लकिन oceans are believed to have formed in the hadean period and may have महरूम the impetus for the emergence of life.
extraterrestrial oceans may be composed of a चौड़ी range of तत्व and यौगिकों.
the only पुष्टि विशाल stable लाशें of extraterrestrial surface liquids हैं the झीलों of Titan, although there is evidence लिये the existence of oceans elsewhere in the Solar प्रणाली.
जल्दी in their भूगर्भिक histories, मंगल और शुक्र हैं theorized to have था विशाल जल महासागर.
the Mars समंदर hypothesis suggests कि nearly a तीसरा of the सतह of मंगल थी एकबार covered by जल, though the जल on Mars is no longer oceanic, और a runaway ग्रीनहाउस प्रभाव may have boiled दूर the global समंदर of Venus.
यौगिकों such as salts और अमोनिया dissolved in जल निम्नतर इसके जमने पाइंट, so कि जल might मौजूद in विशाल quantities in extraterrestrial environments as brine or convecting बर्फ.
Unconfirmed महासागर are speculated beneath the सतह of many बौना planets और natural satellites ; notably, the समंदर of यूरोपा is believed to have over twice the जल volume of धरती.
the सौर प्रणाली 's गैस दानव planets हैं भी believed to possess liquid वायुमंडलीय layers of yet to be पुष्टि रचनाएं.
Oceans may भी मौजूद on exoplanets and exomoons, सहित surface महासागर of द्रव जल भीतर a परितारकीय habitable मण्डल.
समंदर planets हैं a काल्पनिक type of ग्रह with a सतह completely covered साथ द्रव.
एल्विस आरोन Presley ( जनवरी 8, 1935 – August 16, 1977 ) थी an American singer और actor.
a सांस्कृतिक icon, he is commonly ज्ञात by the सिंगल नाम Elvis.
One of the सबसे popular musicians of the 20th सदी, he is प्रायः referred to as the `` किंग of चट्टान and फेंकें '' or `` the किंग ''.
born in Tupelo, मिसिसिपी, प्रेस्ली स्थानांतरित to Memphis, टेनेसी, with उसके परिवार at the आयु of 13.
He began उसके करियर there in 1954, working साथ सूर्य रिकॉर्ड owner Sam Phillips, जो wanted to लाओ the ध्वनि of African-American म्यूज़िक to a wider audience.
accompanied by guitarist Scotty मूर and bassist विधेयक Black, प्रेस्ली was the सबसे important popularizer of rockabilly, an uptempo, backbeat -ड्राइवn संलयन of देश and लय and blues.
आरसीए Victor acquired उसके contract in a सौदे arranged by कर्नल tom पार्कर, जो went on to मैनेज the singer for over दो दशकों.
प्रेस्ली 's पहला आरसीए सिंगल, `` heartbreak Hotel ``, released in जनवरी 1956, थी a number-one hit.
he became the अग्रणी figure of the newly लोकप्रिय sound of चट्टान और फेंकें साथ a श्रेणी of संजाल television appearances और chart-topping रिकॉर्ड.
उसके energized interpretations of songs, अनेक इससे African-American स्त्रोत, and his uninhibited प्रदर्शन style बना him enormously popular—and controversial.
In नवम्बर 1956, he बना उसके film debut in प्रेम Me Tender.
drafted into सैन्य service in 1958, प्रेस्ली relaunched उसके recording करियर two सालो बाद साथ some of his सबसे commercially successful कार्य.
he staged few कॉन्सर्ट however, and हिदायत by पार्कर, proceeded to devote much of the 1960s to बनाना हॉलीवुड फिल्मों and soundtrack albums, सबसे of them critically derided.
in 1968, बाद सात years away from the stage, he लौटे to सजीव performance in a celebrated वापसी टेलीविज़न खास कि led to an extended लास Vegas कॉन्सर्ट रेसिडेंसी और a स्ट्रिंग of लाभप्रद टुर.
in 1973 Presley मंचन the पहला कॉन्सर्ट ब्रॉडकास्ट globally via उपग्रह, aloha from हवाई.
नुस्खा ड्रग abuse severely deteriorated his स्वास्थ्य, और he died एकाएक in 1977 at the age of 42.
प्रेस्ली is regarded as one of the सबसे important figures of 20th-century popular संस्कृति.
He had a versatile voice और unusually wide कामयाबी encompassing many जाति, सहित country, पॉप ballads, gospel, and ब्लूज़.
he is the best-selling सोलो artist in the history of popular म्यूज़िक.
मनोनीत लिये 14 competitive Grammys, he जीती three, and प्राप्त the ग्रैमी Lifetime उपलब्धि पुरस्कार at आयु 36.
he रै been inducted into अनेक म्यूज़िक हॉल of fame.
A glass of रूट बियर साथ झाग
रूट बियर is a carbonated, sweetened पेय, originally made using the root of a sassafras plant ( or the छाल of a sassafras tree ) as the प्राथमिक स्वाद.
रूट बियर, popularized in North अमेरिका, आता in दो फ़ॉर्म : alcoholic और soft पेय.
the historical रूट beer was analogous to छोटी बियर in कि the प्रक्रम provided a पेय with a बहुत low दारू content.
हालांकि जड़ें हैं प्रयुक्त as the source of अनेक नरम पेय throughout the world, प्रायः अलग names are used.
fluorescent खनिज emit दृश्य लाइट जब उजागर to ultraviolet लाइट
Fluorescence is the उत्सर्जन of लाइट by a पदार्थ कि रै absorbed लाइट or अन्य इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण.
it is a रूप of luminescence.
in सबसे cases, the उत्सर्जित लाइट has a longer wavelength, और इसलिए निम्नतर energy, than the अवशोषित radiation.
however, जब the अवशोषित इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक radiation is तीव्र, it is संभावित लिये one इलेक्ट्रॉन to अवशोषित दो photons ; इस two-photon absorption can सीसे to उत्सर्जन of radiation having a shorter wavelength than the अवशोषित विकिरण.
The उत्सर्जित विकिरण may भी be of the वही wavelength as the अवशोषित विकिरण, termed `` अनुनाद fluorescence ''.
the most striking उदाहरण of fluorescence occur when the अवशोषित radiation is in the पराबैंगनी region of the spectrum, and यूँ invisible to the इंसान eye, और the emitted light is in the दृश्य प्रदेश.
प्रतिदीप्ति रै अनेक practical अनुप्रयोग, including mineralogy, gemology, chemical सेंसर ( fluorescence spectroscopy ), fluorescent लेबलिंग, dyes, biological डिटेक्टरों, and, सबसे commonly, fluorescent दीये.
अनौपचारिक logic, intuitively, refers to the principles of लॉजिक और लॉजिकल विचार outside of a औपचारिक setting.
however, शायद क्युकी of the अनौपचारिक in the title, the precise परिभाषा of अनौपचारिक लॉजिक is a matter of some विवाद.
ralph H. जॉनसन और J. एंथोनी ब्लेयर define अनौपचारिक logic as `` a शाखा of लॉजिक whose कार्य is to develop non-formal standards, मापदण्ड, प्रक्रियाओं लिये the विश्लेषण, interpretation, evaluation, आलोचना and निर्माण of argumentation. ''
इस परिभाषा reflects कया had महरूम अव्यक्त in their अभ्यास और what अन्य were doing in उनके अनौपचारिक लॉजिक ग्रन्थ.
अनौपचारिक logic is associated साथ ( अनौपचारिक ) fallacies, critical सोच, the Thinking कौशल गति और the interdisciplinary inquiry ज्ञात as argumentation सिद्धान्त.
Frans H. वैन Eemeren writes that the लेबल `` informal लॉजिक '' कवर a `` संग्रहण of normative approaches to the study of तर्क in ordinary भाषा कि remain करीब to the अभ्यास of argumentation than formal logic. ''
USA annual real GDP 1910–60, साथ the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
बेरोजगारी रेट in the US 1910–1960, with the years of the ग्रेट Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
the Great Depression began in August of 1929, जब the United राज्य economy पहला गई into an economic recession.
Although the देश खर्च दो महीने साथ declining जीडीपी, it was not until the वॉल Street क्रैश of अक्तूबर, 1929 that the effects of a declining अर्थव्यवस्था were लगा, और a major worldwide economic downturn ensued.
the मार्केट crash marked the beginning of a दशक of high बेरोजगारी, गरीबी, कम profits, अपस्फीति, plunging फार्म incomes, और खोया opportunities for economic विकास और निजी उन्नति.
हालांकि इसके कल्याणकारी are स्टिल uncertain and विवादास्पद, the net effect was a अचानक और सामान्य loss of विश्वास in the आर्थिक भविष्य.
the usual स्पष्टीकरण शामिल numerous कारकों, विशेषकर high उपभोक्ता debt, ill-regulated markets that permitted overoptimistic लोन by banks and निवेशकों, और the कमी of high-growth नई industries, all interacting to बनाएँ a downward economic spiral of reduced बिता, falling confidence, और lowered उत्पादन.
Industries कि suffered the most शामिल construction, कृषि as dust-bowl conditions persisted in the agricultural heartland, शिपिंग, खनन, और लॉगिंग as खूब as टिकाऊ goods जैसे ऑटोमोबाइल और appliances that could be postponed.
the economy reached नीचे in the शीत of 1932–33 ; then came four सालो of बहुत रैपिड विकास जबतक 1937, when the मंदी of 1937 brought वापस 1934 स्तर of बेरोजगारी.
the अवसाद caused प्रमुख political परिवर्तन in America.
तीन years into the depression, हर्बर्ट Hoover खोया the 1932 presidential चुनाव to फ्रैंकलिन delano रूज़वेल्ट in a sweeping भूस्खलन.
रूज़वेल्ट 's आर्थिक recovery योजना, the नई सौदे, instituted unprecedented कार्यक्रम लिये relief, रिकवरी और सुधार, और brought परिचय a प्रमुख realignment of अमरीकी राजनीती.
The अवसाद भी resulted in an increase of करणों of लोगों to अन्य countries लिये the first time in American history.
For उदाहरण, कुछ immigrants went back to उनके native countries, and some native US नागरिकों गई to कनाडा, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, और दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी.
It भी resulted in the mass माइग्रेशन of people इससे badly hit areas in the ग्रेट मैदान and the South to places ऐसे as कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the उत्तर, respectively ( देखिए okies and the Great Migration of अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी ).
Racial तनाव भी increased दौरान इस time.
by the 1940s immigration था लौटे back to सामान्य, और करणों अस्वीकृत.
A well-known उदाहरण of an emigrant थी फ़्रैंक McCourt, जो went to आयरलैंड, as recounted in his किताब एंजेला 's राख.
the मेमोरी of the Depression also shaped आधुनिक theories of economics and resulted in अनेक परिवर्तन in कैसा the सरकारी dealt with economic downturns, ऐसे as the उपयोग of stimulus पैकेज, keynesian economics, और सोशल सुरक्षा.
it भी shaped आधुनिक American साहित्य, resulting in famous novels ऐसे as जॉन steinbeck 's `` the अंगूर of प्रकोप `` और `` of चूहे and Men ``.
The Great Depression of the 1930s प्रारंभ साथ the stock मार्केट क्रैश of अक्तूबर 1929.
तुर्कों ( ), officially the गणतंत्र of तुर्कों, is a transcontinental country, स्तिथ ज़्यादातर on आनातोलिया in पश्चिमी एशिया और on ईस्ट Thrace in southeastern यूरोपीय.
तुर्कों is bordered by आठ countries : बुल्गारिया to the उत्तरपश्चिम ; Greece to the वेस्ट ; जॉर्जिया to the पूर्वोत्तर ; Armenia, इरान और the Azerbaijani exclave of Nakhchivan to the ईस्ट ; और Iraq and सीरियाई to the southeast.
The Mediterranean Sea is to the दक्षिण ; the ईजियन समुद्र is to the west ; और the Black Sea is to the उत्तर.
the समुद्र of मरमरा, the Bosphorus and the Dardanelles ( जिससे together रूप the तुर्की straits ) demarcate the boundary between thrace और आनातोलिया ; they भी पृथक Europe and एशिया.
Turkey 's स्थान at the क्रॉसरोड्स of यूरोपीय और एशिया makes it a देश of significant geostrategic महत्व.
the देश 's आधिकारिक भाषा is तुर्की, a turkic भाषा, जिससे is spoken by लगभग 85 % of the जनसांख्यिकी as माँ जीभ.
the most numerous जातीय समूह is the turks, जो constitute between 70 % और 75 % of the population according to the World factbook.
kurds हैं the largest जातीय अल्पसंख्यक और, according to the वही source, क्रमांक around 18 % of the population जबकि अन्य जातीय अल्पसंख्यकों are estimated to be at 7–12 %.
the vast majority of the जनसांख्यिकी is Muslim.
the area अभी पुकारा तुर्कों रै been inhabited since the paleolithic, सहित विभिन्न प्राचीन Anatolian सभ्यताओं और thracian peoples.
After Alexander the ग्रेट 's conquest, the area थी hellenized, which जारी साथ the Roman नियम and the परिवर्तन into the Byzantine साम्राज्य.
The सलजूक़ turks began migrating into the क्षेत्रफल in the 11th सदी, starting the प्रक्रम of Turkification, जिससे थी greatly त्वरित by the सलजूक़ विजय over the Byzantines at the बैटल of manzikert in 1071.
the Seljuk सल्तनत of rûm ruled आनातोलिया जबतक the Mongol invasion in 1243, upon जिससे it disintegrated into अनेक small तुर्की beyliks.
Starting from the लेट 13th सदी, the Ottoman beylik संयुक्त आनातोलिया और created an साम्राज्य encompassing much of southeastern Europe, पश्चिमी एशिया और उत्तर अफ़्रीकी.
After the Ottoman साम्राज्य collapsed following इसके शिकस्त in संसार युद्ध i, parts of it were occupied by the विजयी allies.
A cadre of यंग military अधिकारियों, led by mustafa kemal अतातुर्क और his सहयोगियों, व्यवस्थित a कामयाब resistance to the allies ; in 1923 वे स्थापित the आधुनिक गणतंत्र of तुर्कों, साथ अतातुर्क as इसके first अध्यक्ष.
तुर्कों is a democratic, धर्मनिरपेक्ष, unitary, संवैधानिक गणतंत्र with a diverse cultural heritage.
तुर्कों has become increasingly एकीकृत with the वेस्ट through सदस्यता in संगठनों ऐसे as the परिषद of Europe, नाटो, oecd, osce और the g-20 major economies.
Turkey began full membership negotiations साथ the European संघ in 2005, having महरूम an संबद्ध सदस्य of the European Economic जातियाँ चूंकि 1963 और having joined the eu Customs संघ in 1995.
Turkey रै भी fostered बंद cultural, political and आर्थिक संबंध with the मध्य ईस्ट, Caucasus, the Turkic राज्य of Central Asia and the अफ़्रीकी countries through membership in संगठनों such as the Turkic Council, संयुक्त प्रशासन of Turkic कला और संस्कृति, संगठन of इस्लामी Cooperation and the आर्थिक सहयोग संगठन.
तुर्कों 's growing economy and diplomatic पहलों have led to its recognition as a regional शक्ति.
तुर्कों is the संसार 's 17th largest अर्थव्यवस्था by नाममात्र GDP और the 16th largest by खरीदना शक्ति parity.
Caryn Elaine जॉनसन, best known as whoopi Goldberg (, ( born नवम्बर 13, 1955 ) is an अमरीकी comedienne, अभिनेत्री, singer-songwriter, राजनैतिक activist, लेखक और talk दिखाएँ मेजबान.
Goldberg made उसके फिल्मी डेब्यू in The रंग Purple ( 1985 ), playing celie, a mistreated black स्त्री in the Deep South.
She प्राप्त a नामांकन for the अकादमी Award for बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री and जीती उसके first सुनहरी ग्लोब Award लिये उसके भूमिका in the film.
in 1990, वो played oda mae भूरा, a wacky मानसिक helping a slain man ( पैट्रिक swayze ) सहेजें उसके lover ( Demi मूर ) in the ब्लॉकबस्टर Ghost.
This प्रदर्शन जीती उसके a दूसरी Golden ग्लोब and an Academy Award लिये बेहतरीन Supporting Actress ; इस made Goldberg only the दूसरी black स्त्री in the history of the अकादमी पुरस्कार to win an एक्टिंग oscar—the पहला being हैटी McDaniel जो जीती लिये Gone साथ the Wind in 1939.
Notable later films include Sister Act and सिस्टर अधिनियम 2, The Player, बना in America, कैसा स्टेला मिला उसके नाली वापस, Girl, बाधित और Rat रेस.
वो is भी acclaimed लिये her roles as the बारटेंडर guinan in स्टार Trek : the Next Generation, as टेरी doolittle in jumpin ' जोकर फ्लैश, and as कार्मेन Tibideaux in ग्ली, as well as the voice of shenzi the लकड़बग्घा in the शेर किंग.
गोल्डबर्ग रै been मनोनीत लिये 13 एमी Awards लिये उसके work in television.
She थी co-producer of the लोकप्रिय game show हॉलीवुड वर्गों इससे 1998 to 2004.
वो has महरूम the मॉडरेटर of the दिन बात दिखाएँ the View चूंकि 2007.
Goldberg has a ग्रैमी, दो दिन emmys, two सुनहरी ग्लोब्स, a Tony ( लिये production, नहीं एक्टिंग ), और an ऑस्कर.
in addition, गोल्डबर्ग रै a अंग्रेजों अकादमी फिल्मी Award, four लोगों 's Choice पुरस्कार, and has महरूम सम्मानित साथ a star on the हॉलीवुड चलना of कीर्ति.
She is one of the few मनोरंजनकर्ता जो have जीती an एमी, Grammy, ऑस्कर, और टोनी Award.
Augusta is a संचित नगर in the u.S. राज्य of Georgia, स्तिथ at the पतन line of the savannah नदी, at the head of इसके navigable portion.
As of the 2010 census, the Augusta– रिचमंड काउंटी population थी 195,844 नहीं गिनती the unconsolidated शहरों of hephzibah और blythe.
augusta is the principal नगर of the augusta – Richmond काउंटी Metropolitan सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल, which as of 2010 had an अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी of 556,877, making it both the second-largest नगर और the second-largest मैट्रो area in the राज्य after अटलांटा.
It is the 116th-largest city in the संयुक्त States.
Internationally, Augusta is बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये होस्टिंग The Masters टूर्नामेंट in golf प्रत्येक वसन्त.
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed कॉम्पैक्ट disc which contains आंकड़ा.
the name is an एक्रोनिम which स्टैंड लिये `` कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क Read-only मेमोरी ``.
कंप्यूटर can पढ़ा cd-roms, but can not write on उन्हें.
cd-roms हैं popularly प्रयुक्त to distribute computer software, सहित वीडियो games और मल्टीमीडिया applications, हालांकि any आंकड़ा can be भंडारित ( up to the क्षमता सीमा of a disc ).
कुछ CDs, called उन्नत cds, थाम दोनो computer data और ऑडियो with the latter सक्षम of being played on a cd player, while आंकड़ा ( ऐसे as तन्त्र or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( ऐसे as आईएसओ 9660 format pc cd-roms ).
The पीला Book is the technical standard कि defines the स्वरूप of cd-roms.
One of a set of color-bound किताबे कि contain the तकनीकी विशेषताएँ लिये all CD स्वरुप, the Yellow किताब, निर्मित by सोनी and Philips, was the first एक्सटेंशन of Compact डिस्क डिजिटल ऑडियो.
It adapted the format to थाम कोई रूप of data.
the Chicago ब्लैकहॉक्स ( spelled as ब्लैक चीलों before 1986, and known colloquially as the Hawks ) हैं a पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी team based in Chicago, Illinois.
वे are सदस्यों of the सेंट्रल प्रभाग of the Western Conference of the National Hockey लीग ( NHL ).
वे have जीती four स्टेनली Cup championships चूंकि their founding in 1926, most recently in 2009–10.
the ब्लैकहॉक्स are एक of the असली छह NHL टीमों, along साथ the Detroit Red विंग्स, मॉन्ट्रियल canadiens, Toronto Maple leafs, Boston bruins और नई यॉर्क रेंजरों.
चूंकि the Blackhawks have played their घर खेल at the संयुक्त बीच after having spent 65 सालो playing at Chicago Stadium.
Lent celebrants carrying आउट a गली बारात during Holy Week.
the बैंगनी color is प्रायः संबद्ध साथ penance and detachment.
समान Christian penitential practice is seen in अन्य Catholic countries, sometimes संबद्ध with mortification of the flesh.
granada, निकारागुआ.
lent ( लैटिन : Quadragesima ) is a solemn observance in the liturgical साल of many Christian denominations, स्थायी for a काल of approximately छह weeks अग्रणी up to ईस्टर Sunday.
in the general Latin-rite और सबसे पश्चिमी denominations Lent is taken to run इससे राख बुधवार to Maundy गुरुवार ( पावन गुरुवार ) morning or to ईस्टर Eve.
in the Catholic Church, lent lasts जबतक Holy गुरुवार, while अन्य denominations run until ईस्टर संध्या.
The परंपरागत purpose of lent is the preparation of the believer through prayer, penance, तौबा, almsgiving, और self-denial.
इसके संस्थागत purpose is heightened in the annual commemoration of पावन सप्ताह, marking the death, burial और क़यामत of यीशु, which recalls the events of the Bible when Jesus is crucified on शुभ शुक्रवार, जिससे तब culminates in the celebration on ईस्टर Sunday of the Resurrection of Jesus मसीह.
During lent, अनेक of the वफादार कमिट to उपवास or giving up certain प्रकार of luxuries as a रूप of penitence.
the स्टेशन of the क्रॉस, a devotional commemoration of मसीह 's carrying the क्रॉस और of उसके निष्पादन, हैं प्रायः observed.
Many रोमन Catholic and कुछ प्रोटोस्टेंट churches हटाएँ flowers from उनके altars, जबकि crucifixes, धार्मिक मूर्तियाँ, and other elaborate religious symbols are प्रायः रहमत in बैंगनी fabrics in solemn observance of the इवेंट.
in certain pious कैथोलिक countries, some adherents mark the ऋतु साथ the traditional abstention इससे the consumption of meat.
in some countries, ग्रैंड धार्मिक processions and सांस्कृतिक कस्टम हैं observed, और the वफादार attempt to visit सात चर्च during पावन सप्ताह in सम्मान of यीशु Christ heading to Mount कलवारी.
lent is traditionally described as स्थायी for forty दिनों, in commemoration of the चालीस days which, according to the gospels of Matthew, चिह्नित and ल्यूक, Jesus खर्च fasting in the मरुस्थल पहले the beginning of उसके public मंत्रालय, where he endured temptation by the Devil.
However, different ईसाई denominations गणना the forty दिनों of Lent differently.
In most Western traditions the Sundays are नहीं counted as भाग of Lent ; यूँ the काल इससे राख Wednesday जबतक ईस्टर consists of 40 दिनों जब the Sundays हैं excluded.
However in the Roman Catholic गिरिजाघर lent is अभी लिया to समाप्त on Holy Thursday बल्कि than ईस्टर संध्या, और hence lasts 38 दिनों excluding sundays, or 44 दिनों in कुल.
इस इवेंट, along साथ इसके परहेज़गारों कस्टम हैं observed by catholics, lutherans, methodists, Presbyterians, and Anglicans.
स्थान of Chernobyl nuclear शक्ति संयंत्र
The abandoned नगर of Pripyat साथ chernobyl संयंत्र in the अलहदा
abandoned housing ब्लॉक in pripyat
The chernobyl विपत्ति (, Chornobylska Katastrofa – chornobyl Catastrophe ) थी a catastrophic नाभिकीय दुर्घटना कि occurred on 26 अप्रैल 1986 at the chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति Plant in Ukraine ( तब officially the Ukrainian SSR ), which थी अंतर्गत the direct क्षेत्राधिकार of the central authorities of the सोवियत Union.
an विस्फोट और आग released large quantities of radioactive अणु into the माहौल, जिससे स्प्रेड over much of the पश्चिमी ussr and Europe.
the Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have महरूम the worst नाभिकीय power संयंत्र accident in इतिहास, and is एक of तभी two classified as a स्तर 7 इवेंट on the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Nuclear इवेंट Scale ( the अन्य होने the Fukushima daiichi नाभिकीय disaster in 2011 ).
the बैटल to contain the संदूषण and avert a वृहद प्रलय ultimately involved over 500,000 मजदूर and cost an अनुमानित 18 billion rubles.
the official सोवियत casualty count of 31 deaths रै been विवादित, and long-term effects such as cancers and deformities हैं स्टिल होने accounted लिये.
in व्याकरण, a subject पूरक is a predicative अभिव्यक्ति that फ़ॉलो a linking verb ( copula ) और that complements ( completes ) the विषय of the sentence by either ( 1 ) renaming it or ( 2 ) describing it.
In the former मामला, a renaming noun phrase ऐसे as a noun or pronoun is पुकारा a predicative nominal.
an adjective following the copula and describing the subject is पुकारा a predicative क्रियाशील.
In either case the predicative पूरक in effect mirrors the विषय.
Subject complements are प्रयुक्त साथ a छोटी क्लास of क्रियाएँ called linking verbs or copula, of which be is the सबसे आम.
Since copula हैं stative क्रियाएँ, विषय complements are नहीं प्रभावित by any कार्रवाई of the क्रिया.
Subject complements are typically नहीं clause arguments, nor are वे clause केंद्रीभूत.
throughout the fifty-five साल history of the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, many significant रिकॉर्ड have been set.
इस पेज only शामिल the प्रतिस्पर्धी पुरस्कार won by various कलाकारों.
This does नहीं include the विभिन्न special पुरस्कार कि are presented by the National Academy of रिकॉर्डिंग कला और sciences such as Lifetime उपलब्धि Awards, trustees पुरस्कार, Technical पुरस्कार or Legend पुरस्कार.
the page however करता include अन्य non-performance सम्बन्धित Grammys ( known as the Craft & Production Fields ) कि may have महरूम प्रस्तुत to the artist ( s ).
Marshall Bruce mathers iii ( born October 17, 1972 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके stage नाम Eminem ( stylized as eminǝm ) and by his alter ego Slim छायादार, is an अमरीकी rapper, रिकार्ड निर्माता, songwriter और कर्ता.
Eminem, along साथ his सोलो career, is a सदस्य of उसके समूह d12, और also one हाफ of the hip हॉप duo Bad meets दुष्ट, साथ Royce da 5'9 ''.
Eminem is one of the best-selling कलाकारों in the संसार और is the best-selling कलाकार of the 2000s.
He has been सूचीबद्ध और क्रमित as एक of the greatest कलाकारों of सब समय by many magazines, including Rolling Stone magazine which ranked him 82nd on its सूची of the 100 महानतम Artists of सब समय.
The वही पत्रिका घोषित him the किंग of Hip Hop.
Including his कार्य with D12 and ख़राब Meets दुष्ट, एमिनेम has हासिल ten number-one albums on the Billboard 200.
he has sold अधिक than 100 लाख records worldwide, सहित 42 लाख tracks and 49.1 लाख एल्बम in the संयुक्त राज्य.
as an भूमिगत rapper Eminem released his डेब्यू solo album, अनन्त in 1996.
The एल्बम was a नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक failure.
he gained mainstream popularity in 1999 बाद the release of his major-label डेब्यू एल्बम the पतला Shady lp.
The LP भी earned Eminem उसके पहला Grammy Award लिये बेहतरीन रैप Album.
उसके next दो records the मार्शल mathers LP, and the Eminem दिखाएँ, भी जीती बेहतरीन रैप Album ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, making एमिनेम the पहला artist to जीत बेहतरीन रैप Album for तीन consecutive एलपी.
This थी followed by another studio रिलीज in 2004 titled encore.
एमिनेम तब गई on अंतराल after touring in 2005.
he released his first एल्बम in पाँच सालो titled Relapse, on may 15, 2009.
in 2010, Eminem released उसके सातवाँ studio एल्बम रिकवरी.
Recovery थी an अंतरराष्ट्रीय कामयाबी और was नामित the best selling एल्बम of 2010 worldwide, joining The Eminem दिखाएँ, which थी the बेहतरीन seller of 2002.
Eminem जीती Grammy पुरस्कार for दोनो Relapse and रिकवरी, giving him a total of 13 grammys in his career.
Eminem रै खोली अन्य ventures, सहित his own रिकार्ड लेबल Shady रिकॉर्ड साथ his मैनेजर पॉल Rosenberg.
he also has उसके अपना रेडियो channel, शेड 45 on sirius XM रेडियो.
एमिनेम began an एक्टिंग career in 2002, when he स्ट्रक्चर in the हिप हॉप drama film 8 मील.
He जीती the अकादमी Award लिये Best असली सोंग, becoming the पहला रैप कलाकार कभी to win the award.
He has also made कैमियो दिखावे in The Wash ( 2001 ), मजेदार लोगों ( 2009 ) and the television श्रेणी अनुगामी.
the एकड़ is a ईकाई of क्षेत्रफल प्रयुक्त in the इम्पीरियल and U.S. प्रथागत प्रणालियों.
an एकड़ is about 40 % of a hectare – थोड़ा छोटी than an American football field.
The एकड़ is no longer commonly used, हालांकि a few notable अपवाद include the United States, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Burma और the संयुक्त Kingdom ( as of 2010, the एकड़ is no longer officially used in the United किंगडम, though is still प्रयुक्त in real एस्टेट descriptions ).
it is स्टिल used, to some extent, in Canada.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रतीक of the एकड़ is ac, और is पारिभाषित as 1/640 of a वर्गाकार mile.
the सबसे commonly प्रयुक्त एकड़ today is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़.
in the संयुक्त राज्य दोनो the अंतरराष्ट्रीय acre और the slightly अलग us सर्वेक्षण acre are in use.
The सबसे common उपयोग of the एकड़ is to measure tracts of land.
One अंतरराष्ट्रीय acre is पारिभाषित as 4046.8564224 square मीटर.
दौरान the Middle Ages, an एकड़ थी the राशि of जमीन कि could be plowed in एक दिन साथ a yoke of oxen.
एंटोनी लाव्वाज़्ये 's डिस्कवरी of the विधि of संरक्षण of द्रव्यमान led to अनेक new findings in the 19th सदी.
जोसेफ proust 's विधि of definite proportions और जॉन डाल्टन 's परमाणु सिद्धान्त branched इससे the discoveries of एंटोनी Lavoisier.
Lavoisier 's quantitative प्रयोग revealed that दहन involved oxygen rather than कया was previously thought to be phlogiston.
the विधि of conservation of द्रव्यमान, or principle of mass conservation, states that लिये कोई प्रणाली closed to all transfers of पदार्थ और उर्जा ( दोनो of which have द्रव्यमान ), the द्रव्यमान of the system must remain constant over समय, as system द्रव्यमान can not change मात्रा if it is not added or removed.
Hence, the मात्रा of mass is `` conserved '' over समय.
the विधि implies कि mass can neither be निर्मित nor नष्ट, although it may be rearranged in स्पेस, or the entities associated with it may be बदला in form, as for उदाहरण when लाइट or शारीरिक work is transformed into अणु कि contribute the वही द्रव्यमान to the प्रणाली as the लाइट or कार्य had contributed.
the law implies ( requires ) कि दौरान any chemical reaction, नाभिकीय प्रतिक्रिया, or रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय in an पृथक प्रणाली, the mass of the reactants or starting सामग्री जरूर equal the mass of the उत्पाद.
The अवधारणा of द्रव्यमान संरक्षण is widely used in many फ़ील्ड ऐसे as रसायन, यांत्रिकी, and द्रव dynamics.
historically, द्रव्यमान conservation was खोजा in chemical प्रतिक्रियाएँ by एंटोनी Lavoisier in the late 18th सदी, और थी of crucial महत्व in the प्रगति from alchemy to the आधुनिक प्राकृतिक science of रसायन.
The closely सम्बन्धित अवधारणा of matter संरक्षण was मिला to थाम good in रसायन to ऐसे ऊँची approximation कि it failed only लिये the high energies treated by the later refinements of आपेक्षिकता सिद्धान्त, but otherwise remains useful और fear सटीक for most chemical calculations, even in modern practice.
in खास आपेक्षिकता, needed for accuracy when large energy हस्तांतरण between systems is involved, the अंतर between thermodynamically closed और isolated systems becomes important, since संरक्षण of mass is सख्ती और perfectly upheld तभी लिये so-called isolated प्रणालियों, i.e. those completely isolated इससे सब exchanges साथ the पर्यावरण.
in this परिस्थिति, the mass-energy equivalence theorem states कि द्रव्यमान conservation is equivalent to total energy conservation, which is the पहला विधि of ऊष्मागतिकी.
by contrast, लिये a thermodynamically बंद प्रणाली ( i.e., एक जिससे is बंद to exchanges of matter, but खोलें to exchanges of non-material उर्जा, ऐसे as ऊष्मा और कार्य, with the परिवेश ) mass is ( usually ) तभी लगभग conserved.
the इनपुट or output of non-material energy जरूर change the द्रव्यमान of the प्रणाली in आपेक्षिकता theory, हालांकि the change is प्रायः small, since अपेक्षाकृत विशाल amounts of such energy ( by comparison with ordinary अनुभव ) carry तभी a छोटी राशि of mass ( again by ordinary मानकों of मापन ).
In खास relativity, द्रव्यमान is not परिवर्तित to उर्जा, चूंकि energy in सब of its फ़ॉर्म सदा retains its equivalent राशि of द्रव्यमान throughout कोई परिवर्तन or translocation into, or आउट of, a system.
however, निश्चित प्रकार of पदार्थ ( a अलग concept ) may be परिवर्तित to उर्जा, so long as the mass of the system is unchanged in the process.
however, if ऐसे energy is removed from systems, they must lose the द्रव्यमान that is associated with it.
In सामान्य relativity, द्रव्यमान ( और energy ) conservation in expanding volumes of स्पेस is a जटिल अवधारणा, subject to अलग definitions, और neither द्रव्यमान nor energy is as सख्ती और बस conserved as is the मामला in special आपेक्षिकता and in मिन्कोवस्की स्पेस.
For a discussion, देखिए द्रव्यमान in सामान्य relativity.
a सुअर is कोई of the पशु in the genus सस, within the suidae family of even-toed ungulates.
सूअर include the domestic pig, इसके पूर्वज the जंगली boar, and अनेक अन्य wild relatives.
Young और small सूअर हैं ज्ञात as piglets.
Pigs हैं omnivores और हैं अत्यधिक सोशल and बुद्धिमान animals.
8-inch, -inch, and -inch floppy disks
8-inch, -inch ( full ऊँचाई ), और -inch drives
A 3.5-inch diskette 's `` floppy '' चुम्बकीय सामग्री, removed from इसके आवास
A floppy disk, or diskette, is a डिस्क भंडार medium composed of a डिस्क of thin और flexible चुम्बकीय storage मीडियम, sealed in a आयताकार plastic carrier lined साथ कपड़ा that removes धूल अणु.
वे हैं read और लिखा by a फ्लॉपी डिस्क ड्राइव ( FDD ).
फ्लॉपी डिस्क, initially as मीडिया और later in and 3.5-inch ( 90 mm ) आकार, यहूद a ubiquitous रूप of आंकड़ा storage and एक्सचेंज इससे the mid-1970s well into the पहला decade of the 21st century.
by 2010, कंप्यूटर motherboards यहूद rarely manufactured with फ्लॉपी ड्राइव support ; `` floppies could be used as an external usb ड्राइव, but ``, 8 ``, और non-standard ड्राइव could तभी be handled by बूढ़ा उपकरण.
जबकि फ्लॉपी disk ड्राइव still have some सीमित उपयोग, especially with legacy औद्योगिक computer equipment, वे have been superseded by आंकड़ा भंडार विधि साथ much वृहद capacity, ऐसे as usb फ्लैश drives, portable external hard डिस्क drives, optical discs, memory ताश, और कंप्यूटर संजाल.
an animated आरेख of a कटर
in बेसबॉल, a कटर, or काटें fastball, is a प्रकार of fastball जिससे breaks slightly toward the पिचर 's दस्ताने पक्ष as it पहुँच home plate.
This पिच is कही between a स्लाइडर and a fastball, as it is प्रायः thrown faster than a स्लाइडर but साथ more motion than a ठेठ fastball.
कुछ pitchers उपयोग a कटर as a रास्ता to prevent hitters from expecting their नियमित fastballs.
a common तकनीक प्रयुक्त to throw a कटर is to उपयोग a four-seam fastball पकड़ साथ the बेसबॉल set slightly बंद center in the hand.
When a batter is समर्थ to hit a कटर पिच, it often results in soft सम्पर्क and an easy out, due to the पिच 's गति keeping the बॉल away इससे the चमगादड़ 's मीठी स्पॉट.
the cutter is typically 2–5 किमी slower than a पिचर 's four-seam fastball.
in 2010, the औसत पिच classified as a cutter by pitchf/x thrown by a right-handed pitcher थी 88.6 किमी ; the औसत four-seamer थी 92.1 mph.
`` What it takes '' is a power ballad by अमरीकी मुश्किल चट्टान बैंड Aerosmith.
it थी written by स्टीवन टायलर, जो पेरी, and डेसमंड Child.
It was released in 1990 as the तीसरा single इससे एरोस्मिथ 's critically और commercially कामयाब 1989 एल्बम पंप.
in the video The बनाना of पंप, a & R man जॉन kalodner described the सोंग as `` a कलाकृति ''.
During सजीव performances, टायलर sings the first श्लोक a cappella और belts out one of उसके signature चिल्लाती right before the chorus.
The album संस्करण of the song is followed by an बेनाम छुपा track.
Head of odysseus इससे a यूनानी 2nd century bc संगमरमर समूह representing odysseus blinding Polyphemus, found at the villa of Tiberius at Sperlonga
विवरण of an ancient रोमन mosaic of ulysses in Tunisia
Odysseus ( or ; यूनानी :, ), भी ज्ञात by the Roman नाम ulysses ( ; ), was a legendary यूनानी king of ithaca और a hero of होमर 's एपिक poem the Odyssey.
Odysseus भी plays a key role in होमर 's इलियड and अन्य works in कि same एपिक साईकिल.
husband of पेनेलोप, पिता of telemachus, और बेटे of Laërtes ( or sisyphus ) and Anticlea, odysseus is प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके brilliance, छल, और versatility ( polytropos ), और is hence ज्ञात by the epithet Odysseus the Cunning ( mētis, or `` cunning प्रज्ञा `` ).
he is सबसे प्रसिद्ध लिये the टेन eventful सालो he took to return home बाद the decade-long Trojan युद्ध और his प्रसिद्ध Trojan घोड़ा ploy to कैप्चर the city of Troy.
erie is a Statutory कस्बा in बोल्डर और Weld counties in the U.S. state of Colorado.
the जनसांख्यिकी according to the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी is 18,135 और was अंकित as 6,291 at the 2000 census.
the कस्बा of Erie is located बस west of i-25 लिये आसान access to I-70, डेनवर अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र and कोलोराडो 's entire Front Range.
erie 's नियोजन Area spans 48 वर्गाकार miles, extending इससे the उत्तर पक्ष of State Highway 52 दक्षिण to State राजमार्ग 7, and between US 287 on the west and अंतरराज्यीय 25 to the east.
erie is approximately 35 minutes इससे Denver अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र, 25 minutes to डेनवर और 20 minutes इससे बोल्डर.
The फलक of trustees serves as the विधान और governing देह of the Town of erie और is जिम्मेदार for establishing कस्बा policies and लक्ष्य.
The Board रै the प्राधिकार to अपनाना कानून, ordinances और रिज़ॉल्यूशन as needed to conduct the business of the कस्बा, और by अध्यादेश may डालें into contracts or intergovernmental समझौतों to furnish, प्राप्त सेवाएं or to provide for cooperative सेवा डिलीवरी.
Appointed by and सेवारत at the pleasure of the फलक of trustees, the कस्बा व्यवस्थापक is the chief ऑपरेटिंग और प्रशासनिक अधिकारी of the कस्बा and is जिम्मेदार लिये providing पेशेवर नेतृत्व in the administration and निष्पादन of policies और उद्देश्य प्रतिपादित by the Board.
the mission of the erie पुलिस विभाग is to communicate and कार्य साथ the जातियाँ to maintain a safe पर्यावरण, prevent अपराधों और enforce the विधि, while protecting the अधिकारों of सब.
Erie नगरपालिका विमानक्षेत्र ( EIK ) is owned और संचालित by the Town of erie और is रणनीतिक स्तिथ in the Denver-Boulder महानगर area on कोलोराडो Highway 7, a little over तीन मील वेस्ट of अंतरराज्यीय 25.
The प्रमुख runway is concrete प्रशस्त and 4,700 फीट long.
The is a घर video game console produced by सोनी कंप्यूटर Entertainment.
It is the successor to the प्लेस्टेशन 2, as part of the प्लेस्टेशन श्रेणी.
The PlayStation 3 competes with Microsoft 's एक्सबॉक्स 360 and Nintendo 's Wii as भाग of the seventh पीढी of वीडियो खेल consoles.
it थी पहला released on November 11, 2006, in Japan, with अंतरराष्ट्रीय बाज़ार following shortly thereafter.
The कंसोल was first officially announced at E3 2005.
originally set लिये a वसन्त 2006 release तिथि, it was delayed several टाइम्स जबतक आखिरकार hitting stores at the समाप्त of the year.
it was the पहला और currently तभी कंसोल to उपयोग Blu-ray Disc as इसके primary भंडार मीडियम.
Major सुविधाएँ of the कंसोल include इसके unified ऑनलाइन गेमिंग सेवा, the PlayStation संजाल, and its कनेक्टिविटी साथ the PlayStation Portable and PlayStation वीटा, In September 2009 the अद्यतनीकृत प्लेस्टेशन 3 Slim, थी released.
This पतला is हल्का और thinner than the original संस्करण, हालांकि it lacks प्लेस्टेशन 2 पीछे compatibility ( removed on बाद असली models ), लकिन notably प्रदर्शित a re-designed logo and marketing डिज़ाइन.
as of नवम्बर 4, 2012, 70 लाख PlayStation 3s have been बेची विश्वव्यापी.
Its successor, प्लेस्टेशन 4, is नियत लिये a q4 2013 release.
साल्वाडोर Domingo Felipe Jacinto dalí i domènech, 1st Marqués de dalí de Pubol ( May 11, 1904january 23, 1989 ), known as Salvador dalí ( ), was a prominent स्पेनी surrealist painter born in figueres, स्पेन.
Dalí थी a skilled draftsman, बेहतरीन ज्ञात for the striking and विचित्र images in उसके surrealist कार्य.
उसके painterly skills हैं often attributed to the influence of Renaissance मास्टर्स.
उसके best-known work, the हठ of मेमोरी, थी समाप्त in 1931.
dalí 's expansive कलाकारी रंगमंडल included film, मूर्तिकला, and photography, in सहयोग साथ a range of कलाकारों in a किस्में of मीडिया.
dalí attributed his `` love of everything that is gilded और excessive, my जुनून for लक्ज़री और my love of प्राच्य clothes '' to a self-styled `` अरब lineage '', claiming कि उसके ancestors were descended इससे the Moors.
dalí थी highly imaginative, और भी enjoyed indulging in असामान्य और वैभवशाली बर्ताव.
उसके eccentric manner और attention-grabbing public क्रियाएँ sometimes drew अधिक ध्यान than his कलाकृति, to the dismay of those जो आयोजित his कार्य in high esteem, और to the irritation of उसके आलोचकों.
Philosopher प्लेटो by silanion
The मानवता हैं academic disciplines that पढ़ाई इंसान culture, using विधि कि हैं primarily विश्लेषणात्मक, critical, or speculative, and having a significant ऐतिहासिक तत्व, as distinguished इससे the mainly अनुभवजन्य approaches of the natural sciences.
the मानवता include ancient and आधुनिक languages, साहित्य, philosophy, धर्म, और विज़ुअल and performing arts ऐसे as music and थिएटर.
the humanities that हैं also regarded as सोशल sciences include history, anthropology, क्षेत्रफल studies, संचार अध्ययन, सांस्कृतिक studies, विधि, economics और linguistics.
विद्वानों working in the मानवता हैं sometimes वर्णित as `` humanists ''.
however, कि पद भी describes the philosophical position of मानवतावाद, जिससे some `` antihumanist `` विद्वानों in the humanities अस्वीकृत.
Some द्वितीयक schools offer मानवता classes, usually consisting of अंग्रेज़ी literature, वैश्विक studies, और art.
इंसान disciplines जैसे इतिहास, सांस्कृतिक anthropology and मनोविश्लेषण पढ़ाई विषय matters to which the प्रायोगिक विधि करता नहीं apply, and वे have अभिगम instead to the तुलनात्मक method और तुलनात्मक research.
the 2005 Blue Room क्रिसमस पेड़
The White हाउस क्रिसमस Tree, also ज्ञात as the ब्लू Room Christmas Tree, is the आधिकारिक indoor क्रिसमस पेड़ at the निवास of the President of the संयुक्त States, the White हाउस.
The पहला अंदर क्रिसमस tree थी संस्थापित in the White House sometime in the 19th century ( there हैं varying claims as to the exact साल ) and चूंकि 1961 the tree has had a प्रसंग मोटिफ at the discretion of the पहला Lady of the United राज्य.
the President of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका ( potus ) is the सिर of राज्य and सिर of सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य.
The president लीड the कार्यपालिका शाखा of the संघीय सरकारी and is the commander-in-chief of the United राज्य हथियारबंद शक्तियां.
Article ii of the U.S. संविधान vests the executive शक्ति of the संयुक्त राज्य in the अध्यक्ष और आरोप उसे साथ the निष्पादन of federal law, alongside the responsibility of appointing federal executive, राजनयिक, regulatory, and न्यायिक अधिकारियों, and concluding treaties साथ विदेशी शक्तियां, साथ the सलाह and consent of the Senate.
The president is further empowered to grant संघीय pardons और reprieves, और to convene और adjourn either or both घरों of कॉंग्रेस under extraordinary circumstances.
Since the founding of the United राज्य, the शक्ति of the अध्यक्ष और the संघीय सरकारी have grown substantially और each आधुनिक president, despite possessing no औपचारिक legislative शक्तियां परे signing or vetoing congressionally passed बिल्स, is largely जिम्मेदार for dictating the विधान agenda of उसके पार्टी और the विदेशी and घरेलू नीति of the संयुक्त राज्य.
the अध्यक्ष is अक्सर described as the सबसे powerful person in the संसार.
The अध्यक्ष is indirectly निर्वाचित by the लोगों through the चुनावी College to a four-year पद, और is one of only two nationally elected संघीय officers, the अन्य being the वाइस अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States.
The Twenty-second Amendment, adopted in 1951, prohibits anyone from कभी होने निर्वाचित to the प्रेसिडेंसी लिये a तीसरा पूरा पद.
it भी prohibits a व्यक्ति इससे होने elected to the प्रेसिडेंसी अधिक than एकबार if कि person previously था परोसा as president, or acting president, for अधिक than दो years of another व्यक्ति 's पद as अध्यक्ष.
In सब, 43 individuals have served 55 four-year शर्तें.
On जनवरी 20, 2009, बराक ओबामा became the 44th and current अध्यक्ष.
On नवम्बर 6, 2012, he was re-elected और is अनुसूचित to serve जबतक January 20, 2017.
Senses हैं physiological capacities of organisms that provide आंकड़ा for बोध.
The होश और उनके आपरेशन, classification, and theory are अतिव्यापी विषय studied by a किस्में of फ़ील्ड, सबसे notably neuroscience, संज्ञानात्मक मनोविज्ञान ( or संज्ञानात्मक विज्ञान ), और दर्शनशास्त्र of perception.
the nervous प्रणाली has a विशिष्ट sensory प्रणाली or अंग, dedicated to each sense.
Humans have a multitude of होश.
Sight ( ophthalmoception ), सुनना ( audioception ), स्वाद ( gustaoception ), smell ( olfacoception or olfacception ), और touch ( tactioception ) are the पाँच traditionally पहचाना.
While the ability to detect other stimuli परे those governed by the परंपरागत होश exists, सहित temperature ( thermoception ), kinesthetic भाव ( proprioception ), pain ( nociception ), balance ( equilibrioception ), acceleration ( kinesthesioception ), और विभिन्न internal stimuli ( e.g. the अलग chemoreceptors for detecting नमक and कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड concentrations in the blood ), only a छोटी क्रमांक of these can safely be वर्गीकृत as पृथक senses in and of themselves.
What constitutes a भाव is a पदार्थ of कुछ बहस, leading to difficulties in defining कया exactly a sense is.
Animals also have receptors to sense the संसार around them, with डिग्री of capability varying greatly between प्रजाति.
इंसानो have a comparatively कमजोर sense of smell, while कुछ पशु may lack one or अधिक of the traditional पाँच senses.
Some पशु may also सेवन और interpret संवेदी stimuli in बहुत अलग ways.
Some species of पशु हैं able to sense the संसार in a रास्ता कि humans can नहीं, साथ कुछ प्रजाति able to भाव विद्युत और चुम्बकीय fields, और detect water pressure और currents.
मकड़ियों ( order Araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods कि have आठ टाँगे और chelicerae with fangs that इंजेक्ट venom.
वे हैं the largest order of arachnids और रैंक सातवाँ in कुल species diversity among सब other groups of जीवों.
मकड़ियों हैं found worldwide on every महाद्वीप मगर for अंटार्कटिक, and have become स्थापित in nearly every आवास with the exception of air और sea colonization.
as of 2008, at least 43,678 spider प्रजाति, और 109 परिवारों have महरूम अंकित by taxonomists ; however, वहीँ has been confusion भीतर the scientific जातियाँ as to कैसा सब ये families चाहिए be classified, as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications कि have महरूम प्रस्तावित चूंकि 1900.
anatomically, मकड़ियों differ इससे अन्य arthropods in कि the usual देह खण्ड हैं fused into two tagmata, the cephalothorax और उदर, and joined by a small, बेलनाकार pedicel.
नापसंद कीट, मकड़ियों do नहीं have antennae.
in सब except the सबसे primitive समूह, the Mesothelae, मकड़ियों have the सबसे centralized बेचैन systems of all arthropods, as सब उनके ganglia are fused into one द्रव्यमान in the cephalothorax.
Unlike most arthropods, मकड़ियों have no extensor muscles in उनके limbs and instead extend उन्हें by हाइड्रोलिक pressure.
उनके abdomens भालू appendages कि have महरूम modified into spinnerets कि extrude रेशा from up to छह प्रकार of रेशा ग्रंथियों within उनके उदर.
मकड़ी webs vary widely in आकार, shape और the राशि of स्टिकी लड़ी used.
it now appears that the सर्पिल orb web may be एक of the earliest forms, और spiders कि produce उलझे cobwebs are अधिक abundant और diverse than orb-web मकड़ियों.
Spider-like arachnids साथ silk-producing spigots appeared in the devonian काल about, but these animals जाहिर lacked spinnerets.
True मकड़ियों have महरूम found in carboniferous रॉक्स from, और हैं बहुत similar to the सबसे primitive surviving order, the mesothelae.
the प्रमुख समूह of आधुनिक spiders, Mygalomorphae and araneomorphae, पहला appeared in the triassic काल, before.
A herbivorous species, bagheera kiplingi, थी described in 2008, but सब अन्य ज्ञात प्रजाति are परभक्षी, ज़्यादातर preying on insects और on अन्य मकड़ियों, although a few large प्रजाति भी take पक्षियों और lizards.
मकड़ियों उपयोग a चौड़ी range of रणनीति to capture शिकार : trapping it in स्टिकी webs, lassoing it साथ स्टिकी bolas, mimicking the prey to avoid detection, or कार्यशील it bas.
सबसे detect शिकार mainly by संवेदन vibrations, लकिन the क्रियाशील hunters have acute vision, and hunters of the genus portia show signs of प्रज्ञा in उनके choice of tactics and ability to develop नई ones.
मकड़ियों ' गुस्ताखी are too narrow to लो solids, और वे liquidize उनके food by बाढ़ it साथ digestive एंजाइमों और grinding it साथ the bases of उनके pedipalps, as वे do not have true जबड़े.
Male मकड़ियों पहचानो themselves by a variety of जटिल courtship संस्कार to avoid होने eaten by the महिलाओं.
males of सबसे species जीवित a few matings, limited mainly by their छोटी जीवन spans.
Females बुनते रेशा egg-cases, each of which may contain hundreds of अंडे.
महिलाओं of अनेक प्रजाति परवाह लिये their young, for उदाहरण by carrying them around or by sharing खाना साथ उन्हें.
a minority of प्रजाति are सोशल, भवन communal webs that may house anywhere from a few to 50,000 individuals.
सोशल behavior सीमाएँ इससे precarious toleration, as in the विधवा spiders, to co-operative शिकार और food-sharing.
हालांकि सबसे spiders live for at सबसे two सालो, tarantulas and other mygalomorph spiders can सजीव up to 25 years in captivity.
जबकि the venom of a few प्रजाति is खतरनाक to humans, scientists हैं अभी researching the उपयोग of spider venom in medicine and as non-polluting pesticides.
Spider silk provides a संयोजन of lightness, शक्ति and elasticity कि is श्रेष्ठ to कि of सिंथेटिक सामग्री, और मकड़ी रेशा जीनों have been inserted into स्तनधारियों और पौधे to देखिए if these can be प्रयुक्त as silk कारखानों.
As a result of उनके चौड़ी range of behaviors, मकड़ियों have become आम प्रतीकों in art और mythology symbolizing various combinations of patience, क्रूरता और रचनात्मक शक्तियां.
धूसर 's Anatomy is an American टेलीविज़न medical drama that premiered on the American प्रसारण कम्पनी ( एबीसी ), as a mid-season बदलना on March 27, 2005.
The श्रेणी रै aired नौ सीज़न, और focuses on the fictional जीवनदान of सर्जिकल interns and निवासियों as वे gradually evolve into seasoned doctors, while trying to maintain निजी lives.
the show 's premise originated with Shonda Rhimes, जो serves as an executive निर्माता, along with बेट्सी Beers, चिह्नित गॉर्डन, क्रिस्टा Vernoff, रोब Corn, चिह्नित Wilding, और Allan Heinberg.
the series was created to be racially विविध, utilizing a color-blind casting तकनीक.
It is primarily फिल्माया in लॉस Angeles, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
the श्रेणी ' समर्थक is dr. मेरेडिथ धूसर ( Ellen pompeo ), जो originally is accepted into the residency program at the fictional Seattle अनुग्रह हॉस्पिटल.
Meredith is आबंटित to work under dr. Miranda Bailey ( चन्द्रा विल्सन ), साथ with Dr. Cristina Yang ( Sandra oh ), dr. George O'Malley ( T. R. नाईट ), dr. Izzie Stevens ( कैथरीन Heigl ), और dr. Alex Karev ( जस्टिन Chambers ).
following O'Malley 's मौत और Stevens ' departure, the हॉस्पिटल 's विलय with रहमत West brings in Dr. जैक्सन एवेरी ( जेसी Williams ) and Dr. अप्रैल kepner ( सारा खींचा ), in the sixth ऋतु.
The surgical wing is primarily supervised by Dr. Richard Webber ( James Pickens, jr. ), जो is आखिरकार replaced by dr. डेरेक गड़रिये ( पैट्रिक डेम्पसे ), और later dr. ओवन हंट ( Kevin mckidd ).
Dr. Preston Burke ( यशायाह वॉशिंगटन ) departs at the निष्कर्ष of the तीसरा ऋतु, and is replaced by Dr. एरिका hahn ( ब्रुक Smith ), who पत्ते the दिखाएँ during the fifth season, and later dr. टेडी Altman ( Kim Raver ), who departs at the समाप्त of the eighth ऋतु.
introduced in the दूसरी season is dr. एडीसन Montgomery ( Kate Walsh ), जो leaves the दिखाएँ at the समाप्त of the तीसरा ऋतु, in order to लॉन्च उसके own spin-off चिकित्सा नाटक Private अभ्यास.
dr. callie Torres ( Sara रामिरेज़ ) और Dr. Mark स्लोअन ( eric Dane ) also डालें the दिखाएँ in the second ऋतु, while the latter मरता in the प्रीमियर of the ninth ऋतु.
Meredith 's half-sister, Dr. Lexie धूसर ( chyler Leigh ), appears from season तीन और dies at the समाप्त of season आठ.
Dr. Arizona Robbins ( जेसिका capshaw ) is given श्रेणी regular status at the beginning of the छठे ऋतु.
धूसर 's Anatomy is the highest-rated नाटक in the कुंजी 18–49 demographic.
Previously among the overall top-ten रेटेड shows in the संयुक्त राज्य, Grey 's anatomy रै महरूम खूब प्राप्त by आलोचकों.
Considered an प्रभाव on संस्कृति, the series has received numerous पुरस्कार, और has भी महरूम शामिल in विभिन्न आलोचकों ' top ten सूचियाँ.
the दिखाएँ has उत्पादित अनेक specials, as खूब as वितरित all सीज़न to dvd, and released a संग्रहण of merchandise.
in 2012, धूसर 's Anatomy was नामित the fifth-highest revenue earning दिखाएँ, in terms of advertising प्रति half-hour.
on may 11, 2012, the series थी renewed लिये a ninth ऋतु, जिससे premiered on September 27, 2012.
schizophrenia ( or ) is a दिमागी विकार characterized by a विश्लेषण of thought processes और by a deficit of ठेठ emotional responses.
आम लक्षण शामिल auditory मति, paranoid or bizarre delusions, or disorganized वाक and thinking, और it is accompanied by significant सोशल or occupational dysfunction.
the onset of symptoms typically occurs in यंग adulthood, with a वैश्विक आजीवन व्यापकता of परिचय 0.3–0.7 %.
निदान is आधारित on observed बर्ताव और the रोगी 's reported अनुभवों.
आनुवंशिकी, जल्दी पर्यावरण, neurobiology, and मनोवैज्ञानिक और सोशल प्रक्रियाओं appear to be महत्वपूर्ण contributory factors ; कुछ recreational and नुस्खा drugs appear to cause or worsen लक्षण.
Current शोध is केन्द्रित on the भूमिका of neurobiology, हालांकि no सिंगल पृथक organic cause has महरूम मिला.
The अनेक possible combinations of symptoms have triggered debate about whether the निदान represents a single विकार or a क्रमांक of अलहदा syndromes.
Despite the etymology of the पद from the यूनानी जड़ें skhizein ( σχίζειν, `` to split '' ) और phrēn, phren- ( φρήν, φρεν- ; `` दिमाग '' ), schizophrenia करता not imply a `` split personality '', or `` अनेक व्यक्तित्व विकार '' ( which is ज्ञात these days as dissociative पहचान विकार ) —a condition with जिससे it is often उलझन in पब्लिक बोध.
बल्कि, the term अर्थात् a `` splitting of दिमागी functions '', क्युकी of the symptomatic प्रस्तुतीकरण of the illness.
the mainstay of treatment is antipsychotic medication, जिससे primarily suppresses dopamine ( and sometimes serotonin ) receptor कार्यकलाप.
Psychotherapy और वोकेशनल और सोशल rehabilitation हैं भी महत्वपूर्ण in उपचार.
in अधिक गंभीर cases—where वहीँ is risk to स्वः and others— involuntary hospitalization may be जरुरी, हालांकि हॉस्पिटल stays हैं अभी shorter और less बारंबार than वे एकबार यहूद.
the disorder is विचार मुख्यतः to affect cognition, लकिन it also usually contributes to दीर्घकालिक समस्याएं with behavior और जज्बात.
लोगों with schizophrenia are likely to have additional ( comorbid ) शर्तें, सहित major अवसाद और anxiety विकार ; the आजीवन occurrence of substance उपयोग disorder is लगभग 50 %.
सोशल problems, ऐसे as long-term बेरोजगारी, गरीबी, और homelessness are common.
The औसत जीवन प्रत्याशा of people साथ the विकार is 12 to 15 सालो कम than those बगैर, the result of increased शारीरिक health समस्याएं और a उच्चतर suicide रेट ( परिचय 5 % ).
पॉल Leslie snider ( अप्रैल 15, 1951–august 14, 1980 ) थी the estranged husband and मैनेजर of Playboy model Dorothy stratten, whom he murdered पहले killing खुद the वही day.
the एपिक of Gilgamesh, an एपिक कविता from मेसोपोटामिया, is amongst the earliest surviving works of साहित्य.
The साहित्यिक इतिहास of gilgamesh begins साथ five स्वतंत्र Sumerian poems परिचय 'bilgamesh ' ( sumerian लिये Gilgamesh ), king of uruk.
चार of ये यहूद प्रयुक्त as सोर्स material लिये a combined epic in Akkadian.
इस पहला combined एपिक, ज्ञात as the `` Old babylonian '' संस्करण, dates to the 18th सदी bc and is titled बाद its incipit, Shūtur एली sharrī ( `` surpassing सब अन्य किंग्स '' ).
तभी a few fragments of it have बच.
The बाद `` मानक Babylonian '' संस्करण dates from the 13th to the 10th centuries bc और bears the incipit शा naqba īmuru ( `` He जो देखी the गहन '' ).
fragments of approximately two तिहाई of this longer, twelve-tablet version have been बरामद.
कुछ of the best copies यहूद खोजा in the library ruins of the 7th-century bc assyrian किंग Ashurbanipal.
the स्टोरी centers on a दोस्ती between gilgamesh और enkidu.
enkidu is a जंगली man निर्मित by the देवताओं as gilgamesh 's बराबर to distract him इससे oppressing the लोगों of Uruk.
साथ, they journey to the Cedar Mountain to शिकस्त humbaba, its monstrous संरक्षक.
बाद they मार the सांड of स्वर्ग, which the goddess Ishtar भेजना to punish gilgamesh लिये spurning उसके अग्रिम.
as a दंड लिये these क्रियाएँ, the देवताओं वाक्य Enkidu to मौत.
The second हाफ of the epic focuses on gilgamesh 's तकलीफ at Enkidu 's मौत, and उसके क्वेस्ट for immortality.
In अनुक्रम to सीख the secret of अनन्त life, gilgamesh undertakes a long और perilous यात्रा.
he learns कि `` the जीवन that you are seeking you होगा never ढूँढें.
जब the gods created man they आवंटित to him death, but life वे retained in उनके अपना keeping. ''
इस quote was originally attributed to siduri in the बूढ़ा babylonian संस्करण of the एपिक, और then attributed to the अमर बाढ़ नायिका utnapishtim in the अक्कादी संस्करण of the एपिक.
nevertheless, gilgamesh 's कीर्ति जिया on बाद उसके मौत, क्युकी of उसके ग्रेट भवन प्रोजेक्ट, और his खाता of कया Utnapishtim बताई उसे happened दौरान the flood.
the स्टोरी रै महरूम अनूदित into अनेक different languages, and gilgamesh रै चूंकि become adapted in works of लोकप्रिय fiction.
A सुकेन्द्रिक ( or ) is an organism जिनकी cells contain complex structures enclosed भीतर झिल्लियों.
eukaryotes may अधिक formally be referred to as the टैक्सोन eukarya or eukaryota.
the defining membrane-bound ढांचा कि sets eukaryotic कोशिकाएं apart from prokaryotic कोशिकाएं is the केंद्रक, or नाभिकीय लिफाफा, भीतर which the जेनेटिक सामग्री is carried.
The उपस्थिति of a केंद्रक देता eukaryotes their name, जिससे comes इससे the Greek ( eu, `` good '' ) and ( karyon, `` nut '' or `` कर्नेल '' ).
Most eukaryotic cells also contain अन्य membrane-bound organelles such as mitochondria, chloroplasts और the golgi apparatus.
All विशाल जटिल जीवों are eukaryotes, सहित animals, पौधे और fungi.
the समूह also शामिल अनेक unicellular जीवों.
कोशिका प्रभाग in eukaryotes is अलग from that in organisms बगैर a केंद्रक ( prokaryote ).
it involves separating the duplicated गुणसूत्रों, through movements directed by microtubules.
वहीँ हैं दो प्रकार of प्रभाग processes.
In समसूत्रण, one कोशिका divides to उपज two genetically identical कोशिकाएं.
in meiosis, which is जरूरी in यौन जनन, one diploid कोशिका ( having दो उदाहरण of प्रत्येक chromosome, एक from each जनक ) undergoes recombination of प्रत्येक जोड़ी of parental गुणसूत्रों, और तब दो stages of कोशिका division, resulting in four अगुणित cells ( गैमीट ).
प्रत्येक gamete रै बस एक complement of गुणसूत्रों, प्रत्येक a अद्वितीय मिक्सर of the corresponding जोड़ी of parental chromosomes.
eukaryota appears to be monophyletic, और so makes up एक of the three domains of जीवन.
the दो other डोमेन, Bacteria and Archaea, हैं prokaryotes and have none of the above features.
Eukaryotes represent a tiny अल्पसंख्यक of all living बाते ; even in a human देह वहीँ हैं 10 टाइम्स more microbes than इंसान cells.
However, due to their much larger आकार their collective worldwide biomass is estimated at परिचय equal to कि of prokaryotes.
वे हैं माना to have first developed लगभग 1.6–2.1 billion सालो ago.
the उपयोग of अंतरजाल सेवाएं or तन्त्र साथ Internet अभिगम to defraud victims or to वरना take advantage of उन्हें, लिये example by stealing personal information, which can भी सीसे to identity चोरी.
a बहुत common रूप of अंतरजाल धोखाधड़ी is the वितरण of दुष्ट सुरक्षा तन्त्र.
Internet services can be प्रयुक्त to उपस्थित बेईमान solicitations to prospective victims, to conduct fraudulent ट्रांजेक्शन, or to संचारण the proceeds of धोखाधड़ी to वित्तीय संस्थानों or to अन्य connected साथ the scheme.
अंतरजाल धोखाधड़ी can occur in गपशप कक्ष, email, संदेश boards, or on वेबसाइटों.
the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Security सहायता Force ( isaf ) is a NATO -led सुरक्षा mission in अफगानिस्तान कि थी स्थापित by the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सुरक्षा Council in दिसम्बर 2001 by Resolution 1386, as envisaged by the Bonn Agreement.
इसके प्रमुख purpose is to ट्रैन the Afghan National Security शक्तियां ( ANSF ) and assist Afghanistan in पुनर्निर्माण कुंजी सरकारी institutions but is भी सगाई in the 2001-present युद्ध साथ बागी समूह.
ISAF was initially charged साथ securing Kabul and surrounding areas इससे the तालिबान, al Qaeda and factional warlords, so as to allow for the स्थापना of the Afghan Transitional प्रशासन headed by हामिद Karzai.
in October 2003, the un Security परिषद प्राधिकृत the विस्तार of the isaf mission throughout Afghanistan, और ISAF subsequently विस्तारित the मिशन in चार main stages over the whole of the देश.
इससे 2006 to 2011, ISAF था महरूम involved in increasingly अधिक intensive कॉम्बैट operations in दक्षिणी और पूर्वी Afghanistan.
troop योगदानकर्ता शामिल from the United राज्य, United किंगडम, नाटो सदस्य राज्य and a number of अन्य देशों.
the तीव्रता of the कॉम्बैट faced by contributing राष्ट्र varies greatly, साथ the संयुक्त राज्य, संयुक्त किंगडम, and Canada sustaining the बहुमत of हताहत in intensive कॉम्बैट operations, साथ अन्य contributors sustaining significantly less.
as of early 2010, वहीँ यहूद at तनिक 700 सैन्य bases inside Afghanistan but अधिक were अपेक्षित to be निर्मित in the coming सालो.
About 400 of these यहूद प्रयुक्त by american‐led NATO शक्तियां और 300 by ansf.
कोका ( benzoylmethylecgonine ) ( INN ) is a crystalline tropane एल्कलॉएड कि is obtained इससे the पत्ते of the कोका संयंत्र.
The name आता इससे `` coca '' and the alkaloid प्रत्यय -ine, forming कोका.
it is a stimulant, an भूख suppressant, and a topical anesthetic.
Biologically, कोका acts as a serotonin–norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake inhibitor, भी ज्ञात as a ट्रिपल reuptake inhibitor ( TRI ).
It is addictive because of इसके प्रभाव on the mesolimbic बदला pathway.
नापसंद सबसे अणुओं, कोका रै pockets साथ दोनो ऊँची hydrophilic and lipophilic दक्षता, violating the rule of hydrophilic-lipophilic balance.
इस causes it to cross the blood–brain अवरोध far बेहतर than अन्य psychoactive रसायन and may even induce blood-brain अवरोध breakdown.
it is illegal to possess, produce, or वितरित कोका for non-medicinal and non-government-sanctioned purposes in लगभग प्रत्येक देश.
पूरे beef tri-tip rump, roasted मीडियम विरल
the tri-tip is a cut of beef इससे the नीचे sirloin primal काटें.
it is a छोटी triangular मांसपेशी, प्रायः 1.5 to 2.5 lbs. ( 675 to 1,150g ) per पक्ष of beef.
The scientific नाम of this मांसपेशी is tensor fasciae latae, inserted in the fascia lata, the connective ऊतक covering the quadriceps femoris, भी called quadriceps extensor, a समूह of चार मांसपेशियां which in फेरे प्रविष्ट in the patella, or knee कैप of the animal.
willmar is a नगर in, और the काउंटी seat of, kandiyohi County, Minnesota, संयुक्त States.
The population was 19,610 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
willmar has been assigned zip कोड 56201 by the United States डाक सेवा.
u.s. रूट 12 और 71 और Minnesota State राजमार्गों 23 and 40 हैं चार of the प्रमुख routes in the नगर.
the स्पीकर of the United राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि ( or स्पीकर of the हाउस ) is the पीठासीन अधिकारी of the कक्ष.
the दफ्तर थी established in 1789 by Article i, खण्ड 2 of the संयुक्त States Constitution, जिससे राज्य in भाग, `` The हाउस of प्रतिनिधि shall chuse उनके Speaker... ''
The वर्तमान स्पीकर is जॉन Boehner, a रिपब्लिकन who represents ओहियो 's 8th congressional district.
The Constitution does not require कि the स्पीकर be a Member of Congress, लकिन no non-member रै कभी महरूम निर्वाचित to the दफ्तर.
The Speaker is दूसरी in the संयुक्त राज्य presidential लकीर of उत्तराधिकार, बाद the Vice President और ahead of the अध्यक्ष प्रो tempore of the u.S. सीनेट.
नापसंद some वेस्टमिंस्टर system parliaments, in जिससे the office of स्पीकर is considered non-partisan, in the United राज्य the स्पीकर of the हाउस is a नेतृत्व position और the office-holder actively works to set the बहुमत पार्टी 's विधान कार्यसूची.
the स्पीकर usually करता नहीं personally preside over debates, बजाय delegating the ड्यूटी to सदस्यों of the हाउस इससे the बहुमत पार्टी.
Aside from कर्तव्य relating to heading the हाउस और the majority राजनैतिक पार्टी, the स्पीकर also performs प्रशासनिक और प्रक्रियात्मक कृत्यों, और represents his or her congressional district.
A सायकिल frame is the प्रमुख घटक of a bicycle, on to जिससे wheels and other components हैं fitted.
the आधुनिक और most आम फ़्रेम डिज़ाइन for an upright सायकिल is based on the सुरक्षा bicycle, और consists of दो त्रिकोण, a प्रमुख त्रिभुज and a paired पश्च त्रिभुज.
इस is known as the डायमंड फ़्रेम.
फ्रेम्स are required to be strong, stiff and लाइट, जिससे वे do by combining अलग सामग्री and आकार.
`` Simple गम्भीरता pendulum '' model assumes no घर्षण or air प्रतिरोध.
an exemplar animation of a pendulum प्रर्दशित the velocity and त्वरण सदिश
a लोलक is a वज़न निलंबित इससे a so कि it can swing freely.
जब a pendulum is displaced sideways from its resting equilibrium स्थिति, it is subject to a restoring फ़ोर्स due to गम्भीरता that will accelerate it back toward the संतुलन position.
जब released, the restoring force संयुक्त with the लोलक 's mass कल्याणकारी it to oscillate about the संतुलन स्थिति, सुहाने back और forth.
The समय लिये one पूरा cycle, a बाएँ swing and a सही swing, is पुकारा the काल.
a pendulum swings with a specific काल जिससे depends ( मुख्यतः ) on its लंबाई.
इससे इसके डिस्कवरी around 1602 by गैलीलियो गैलिली the नियमित गति of pendulums थी प्रयुक्त for timekeeping, और was the संसार 's सबसे सटीक timekeeping प्रौद्योगिकी जबतक the 1930s.
pendulums are प्रयुक्त to विनियमित लोलक घड़ियाँ, और हैं प्रयुक्त in scientific instruments ऐसे as accelerometers और seismometers.
historically they यहूद प्रयुक्त as gravimeters to measure the त्वरण of gravity in geophysical surveys, और भी as a standard of लंबाई.
the word 'pendulum ' is नई लैटिन, इससे the लैटिन pendulus, अर्थ 'टहलतेg '.
The simple gravity pendulum is an idealized गणितीय मॉडल of a लोलक.
This is a वज़न ( or bob ) on the समाप्त of a massless cord निलंबित from a, बगैर घर्षण.
जब दिए an आरंभिक push, it होगा झूले वापस और forth at a निरंतर आयाम.
रियल pendulums हैं विषय to घर्षण और एयर खीचें, so the आयाम of उनके swings गिरावट.
the First Battle of Bull चलाएं, भी ज्ञात as पहला manassas ( the नाम प्रयुक्त by confederate शक्तियां ), थी लड़ा on जुलाई 21, 1861, in प्रिंस विलियम County, वर्जिनिया, near the नगर of Manassas.
it was the पहला प्रमुख land बैटल of the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध.
बस months बाद the start of the युद्ध at Fort Sumter, the उत्तरी पब्लिक clamored for a कूच विरूद्ध the confederate पूंजी of Richmond, Virginia, which they expected to bring an जल्दी end to the विद्रोह.
yielding to राजनैतिक pressure, ब्रिगेडियर. Gen. irvin mcdowell led उसके unseasoned संघ फौज आरपार Bull चलाएं against the बराबर inexperienced confederate Army of ब्रिगेडियर. gen. P. G. T. beauregard camped near manassas जंक्शन.
McDowell 's महत्वाकांक्षी plan लिये a आश्चर्य flank attack on the Confederate बाएँ थी poorly चलाया by उसके officers and मेन ; nevertheless, the Confederates, जो था been नियोजन to आक्रमण the संघ left flank, मिला themselves at an initial disadvantage.
Confederate सुदृढीकरण अंतर्गत ब्रिगेडियर. gen. Joseph E. Johnston arrived from the Shenandoah घाटी by railroad and the course of the बैटल quickly बदला.
a brigade of Virginians under a relatively unknown कर्नल from the वर्जिनिया सैन्य Institute, थामस J. जैक्सन, stood their ground और जैक्सन received उसके famous nickname, `` stonewall Jackson ''.
the Confederates तब launched a strong counterattack, and as the Union troops began withdrawing अंतर्गत आग, many panicked और it turned into a rout as McDowell 's men frantically ran without अनुक्रम in the दिशा of वॉशिंगटन, D.C.
दोनो armies were sobered by the fierce fighting and अनेक casualties, और एहसास the युद्ध थी going to be much longer और bloodier than either था anticipated.
अंधड़ near garajau, Madeira
मौसम is the राज्य of the माहौल, to the degree that it is hot or ठंडा, गीला or शुष्क, शांत or stormy, clear or cloudy.
सबसे मौसम phenomena occur in the क्षोभमण्डल, बस नीचे the stratosphere.
मौसम generally refers to day-to-day temperature और वर्षण कार्यकलाप, whereas जलवायु is the पद लिये the औसत वायुमंडलीय शर्तें over longer periods of time.
When used बगैर qualification, `` मौसम '' is समझा to be the मौसम of धरती.
मौसम is चलित by air दबाव ( temperature और नमी ) मतभेद between one place and another.
These pressure और तापमान मतभेद can occur due to the sun कोण at any particular स्पॉट, जिससे varies by latitude इससे the ऊष्णकटिबन्ध.
the strong तापमान कंट्रास्ट between ध्रुवीय and tropical air gives वृद्धि to the जेट स्ट्रीम.
मौसम systems in the mid-latitudes, such as extratropical cyclones, are caused by instabilities of the jet stream प्रवाह.
Because the धरती 's axis is tilted relative to इसके कक्षीय प्लेन, धूप is घटना at अलग angles at different times of the year.
on Earth 's सतह, temperatures प्रायः दायरा ±40 °C ( −40 °F to 100 °F ) annually.
Over thousands of सालो, परिवर्तन in धरती 's orbit affect the amount और वितरण of सौर उर्जा प्राप्त by the धरती and influence long-term climate and वैश्विक जलवायु change.
Surface तापमान मतभेद in फेरे कारण pressure differences.
Higher altitudes हैं कूलर than lower altitudes due to मतभेद in compressional हीटिंग.
मौसम forecasting is the अनुप्रयोग of विज्ञान and technology to भविष्यवाणी the state of the माहौल for a भविष्य समय and a दिए स्थान.
The atmosphere is a chaotic system, so small परिवर्तन to एक part of the प्रणाली can grow to have large effects on the system as a whole.
Human attempts to कंट्रोल the weather have occurred throughout human history, and वहीँ is evidence कि इंसान कार्यकलाप such as कृषि and industry रै inadvertently modified weather patterns.
Studying कैसा the मौसम works on अन्य ग्रह has been helpful in समझना कैसा मौसम works on Earth.
A famous लैंडमार्क in the Solar प्रणाली, बृहस्पति 's ग्रेट रेड स्पॉट, is an anticyclonic storm ज्ञात to have existed for at least 300 years.
However, मौसम is not सीमित to planetary लाशें.
a स्टार 's corona is constantly being खोया to space, बनाना कया is essentially a very पतला atmosphere throughout the सौर प्रणाली.
the movement of mass ejected इससे the सूर्य is ज्ञात as the सौर wind.
कैटी Perry is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter from सांता बारबरा, California.
वो हस्ताक्षरित with कैपिटल रिकॉर्ड.
पेरी रै released three studio एल्बम, सहित her डेब्यू ईसाई प्रयत्न कैटी Hudson, One of the लड़कों, और Teenage Dream.
Perry 's मुख्यधारा करियर थी kicked off with the विशाल चार्ट success of उसके डेब्यू सिंगल `` I चूमा a Girl ``.
दौरान her करियर, पेरी has महरूम nominated for numerous प्रमुख music awards, primarily for teenage सपना और एक of the Boys.
The following is a सूची of sovereign राज्य और territories जहाँ अंग्रेज़ी is an आधिकारिक language or भाषा of सरकारी.
in 2012, वहीँ were 88 राज्य in कुल ( 60 sovereign states and 28 non-sovereign states ).
In अनेक countries अंग्रेज़ी is the dominant language, लकिन करता not have official औकात.
in Australia, अंग्रेज़ी is spoken by the विशाल बहुमत of the population और is the only language प्रयुक्त in सरकारी institutions, लकिन ऑस्ट्रेलिया does not have an आधिकारिक language.
The मामला is the same in the संयुक्त किंगडम and the United राज्य, though many राज्य और regions within the u.S. do have अंग्रेज़ी as an आधिकारिक भाषा.
अंग्रेज़ी is the प्रबल language of New Zealand और an आधिकारिक language of कनाडा ( along with फ्रेंच ), इण्डिया ( along साथ Hindi और अनेक अन्य भाषाएं ), Ireland ( साथ with आयरिश ), और the Philippines ( साथ with tagalog ).
English is the एकमात्र official language of the राष्ट्रमंडल of राष्ट्र and the राष्ट्रमंडल खेल.
अंग्रेज़ी is one of the official भाषाएं of the संयुक्त Nations, the यूरोपीय Union और the International Olympic कमेटी.
अनेक of ये देशों are वर्तमान or former colonies or dependencies of the United किंगडम ( देखिए भी British Empire ), or of the United राज्य, itself a former colony of the uk.
notable अपवाद include रवांडा, जिससे was a पूर्व Belgian उपनिवेश और इरित्रिया, जिससे थी an इतालवी colony जहाँ the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य spanned its कंट्रोल only in संसार युद्ध II और shortly after ( 1941-1952 ).
इण्डिया 's भाषाई चित्र is जटिल.
according to the Constitution of इण्डिया, `` हिंदी in the देवनागरी स्क्रिप्ट '' is the आधिकारिक भाषा of the संघ ; और अंग्रेज़ी the 'subsidiary आधिकारिक भाषा ' ; however, English is mandated लिये the authoritative ग्रन्थ of सब संघीय कानून और परम् Court decisions और ( साथ साथ Hindi ) is एक of the two भाषाएं of the Indian Parliament.
English is used almost exclusively लिये higher शिक्षा, कारोबार and विज्ञान.
Courses in majority of the schools हैं सिखाया exclusively in English.
अंग्रेज़ी is extensively प्रयुक्त for प्रशासनिक उद्देश्य in India.
India is the second-largest english-speaking country in the संसार by क्रमांक of speakers, after the संयुक्त राज्य.
As ऐसे, many consider अंग्रेज़ी to be the de facto आधिकारिक भाषा of India.
See आधिकारिक languages of India.
the linguistic मेकअप of Pakistan is similarly जटिल.
जबकि the national language is Urdu, English is an official भाषा और used in कारोबार, government and law.
English is a compulsory भाषा in schools.
सब school courses are taught in English.
Pakistan is the 9th largest English-speaking देश in the world by population.
Southern कोन (, ) is a geographic प्रदेश रचित of the southernmost areas of South America, दक्षिण of the tropic of Capricorn.
हालांकि geographically इस includes दक्षिणी और भाग of Southeast ( são Paulo ) of Brazil, in शर्तें of political भूगोल the दक्षिणी कोन has traditionally comprised Argentina, Chile, पैराग्वे, और उरुग्वे.
in the narrowest भाव, it तभी कवर अर्जेंटीना, चिली और Uruguay, bounded on the उत्तर by the states of Brazil, पैराग्वे, Bolivia and पेरू, on the वेस्ट by the प्रशांत Ocean, और दक्षिण to the जंक्शन between the प्रशांत और अटलांटिक महासागर, जिससे it is the closest महाद्वीपीय area of अंटार्कटिक ( 1000 km ).
ऊँची जीवन प्रत्याशा, the उच्चतम इंसान विकास अनुक्रमणिका of लैटिन अमेरिका, ऊँची मानक of जीना, significant भागीदारी in the global markets and the उभरते अर्थव्यवस्था of its सदस्यों make the Southern कोन the सबसे prosperous macro-region in South अमेरिका.
लिये multi-event athletic प्रतियोगिताओं देखिए Track और फ़ील्ड प्रतियोगिताओं, section `` बैठक ''.
बैठक हैं sometimes आयोजित around सम्मेलन tables.
in a meeting, two or more people आइये साथ to discuss एक or अधिक topics, often in a औपचारिक सेटिंग.
an आधिकारिक खेल in baseball, भी sometimes called a regulation game, is a game कि रै progressed परे the point at जिससे it can be considered complete if जरुरी.
इस is approximately the halfway point of the खेल.
in the मामला of inclement मौसम, any खेल जिससे रै पहुँचे this point may be रोका and shortened as needed, with the परिणाम होने फाइनल, और सब रिकॉर्ड और statistics गिने.
A खेल which has not पहुँचे इस point before होने रोका is either माना a suspended खेल ( to be जारी at a बाद तिथि इससे the पाइंट of stoppage ), or is simply रद्द और replayed इससे the प्रारंभ.
( इस depends on the नियम of each व्यक्तिगत league. )
in either मामला, no आंकडे हैं गिने जबतक the game becomes आधिकारिक.
Since सबसे पेशेवर बेसबॉल games are नौ पारी long, the पांचवां inning is used as the threshold for an आधिकारिक खेल.
if the visiting team is अग्रणी, or the खेल is tied, the end of the fifth inning marks this पाइंट.
if the home team ( जिससे bats पिछला ) is already ahead in the स्कोर, और theoretically होता नहीं need इसके हाफ of the fifth inning, तब 41⁄2 innings ( i.e., the middle of the fifth ) is माना an आधिकारिक खेल.
The खेल is also माना official if the घर टोली स्कोर to लो the सीसे in the नीचे of the पांचवां inning, since the खेल होता समाप्त immediately if the वही thing happened in the ninth.
in nearly सब मामले, the `` official game '' औकात is प्रयुक्त to determine whether a rain जाँच will be सम्मानित लिये प्रशंसक holding tickets.
if a game is started लकिन करता not reach the पाइंट of बनने official, प्रशंसक हैं हकदार to a new टिकट लिये the make-up खेल or ( in सबसे मामले ) any other available खेल of उनके चुनाव.
if a खेल is halted after it becomes आधिकारिक, the खेल is simply shortened और no बरसात जाँच is given.
the `` आधिकारिक खेल '' statistic received some attention दौरान the 1995 season, जब कैलोरी ripken, Jr. was approaching the रिकार्ड लिये लगातार games निभाई, previously held by Lou Gehrig.
Large संख्याएँ were लटका on the पक्ष of the b & O Warehouse at oriole Park at camden Yards to show the क्रमांक of games in Ripken 's streak.
प्रत्येक day, a new number was unfurled दौरान the पांचवां inning after प्रत्येक game had become official ( चूंकि the statistic would not have गिने if the खेल था महरूम रोका पहले कि पाइंट ).
A similar practice रै महरूम used to गिनती down toward the demolition of अनेक स्टेडियम ( सहित दिग्गजों Stadium in Philadelphia in 2003, Busch Memorial स्टेडियम in St. Louis in 2005, और the असली यांकी Stadium and Shea Stadium in नई यॉर्क नगर in 2008 ) ; as each खेल became official, the टोली would unveil a new ( lower ) क्रमांक showing the number of खेल left to be played in the stadium.
A टेलीफोन क्रमांक or phone क्रमांक is a sequence of अंक used to call from one टेलीफोन line to another in a public switched telephone संजाल.
जब टेलीफोन संख्याएँ यहूद invented, वे यहूद छोटी — as few as एक, two or three digits — and were दिए orally to a switchboard ऑपरेटर.
as phone प्रणालियों have grown और interconnected to encompass the संसार, telephone संख्याएँ have become longer.
In जोड to telephones, they now अभिगम other devices, such as कंप्यूटर and फैक्स मशीने.
the number contains the सूचना जरुरी to पहचानो uniquely the intended endpoint for the telephone call.
प्रत्येक ऐसे endpoint must have a अद्वितीय क्रमांक भीतर the पब्लिक switched टेलीफोन संजाल.
सबसे countries उपयोग फिक्स्ड length संख्याएँ ( for सामान्य लाइनों at least ) and इसलिए the number of endpoints determines the जरुरी length of the टेलीफोन क्रमांक.
it is also संभावित लिये each subscriber to have a नियत of shorter numbers लिये the endpoints सबसे प्रायः प्रयुक्त.
ये `` आशुलिपि '' or `` गति कॉलिंग '' संख्याएँ हैं automatically translated to unique टेलीफोन संख्याएँ before the call can be connected.
कुछ special सेवाएं have उनके own छोटी संख्याएँ ( e.g., 1-1-9, 9-1-1, 0-0-0, 9-9-9, 1-1-1, और 1-1-2 being the आपात सेवाएं संख्याएँ लिये चीन, Japan, South कोरियाई, ताईवान और Sri लंका ; Canada and the संयुक्त States ; ऑस्ट्रेलिया ; the संयुक्त किंगडम, आयरलैंड, दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी, कैंडल, Saudi अरब, the United अरब अमीरात, मोरक्को, मकाओ, Bahrain, क़तर, बांग्लादेश, Botswana, घाना, Kenya, Hong काँग, मलेशिया, मॉरीशस, सिंगापुर, ज़िम्बाब्वे, Trinidad, टोबैगो ; New जीलैंड ; Kuwait और the यूरोपीय Union, respectively. )
अनेक systems also allow काल्स भीतर a local क्षेत्रफल to be made बगैर डायलिंग the लोकल क्षेत्रफल code.
लिये example, a phone number in North America होगा start साथ तीन numbers ( ऐसे as 661 ), जिससे is the क्षेत्रफल code, followed by seven digits split into sections of three and चार ( ऐसे as 550-1212 ), which is the local क्रमांक.
कुछ क्षेत्रों अभी have mandatory ten-digit डायलिंग in place, even for लोकल calls.
Most टेलीफोन संजाल आज ( exceptions होने निजी intercom और सुरक्षित फोन networks ) हैं interconnected in the international टेलीफोन संजाल, where the स्वरूप of टेलीफोन संख्याएँ is मानकीकृत by ITU-T in the recommendation E.164.
This specifies कि the entire number चाहिए be 15 अंक or shorter, and शुरू with a country उपसर्ग.
लिये सबसे countries, this is followed by an area code or city code और the सदस्य क्रमांक, जिससे might consist of the कोड लिये a particular टेलीफोन exchange.
ITU-T अनुशंसा e.123 describes कैसा to represent an international टेलीफोन number in writing or छपाई, starting साथ a प्लस sign ( `` + '' ) और the देश code.
जब कॉलिंग an अंतरराष्ट्रीय क्रमांक इससे a फिक्स्ड लकीर phone, the + must be replaced with the international call उपसर्ग चुनी by the देश the call is being made from.
कुछ mobile फोन allow the + to be डाला directly.
The स्वरूप और आवंटन of लोकल phone numbers are नियंत्रित by each nation 's संबंधित सरकारी, either सीधे or by प्रायोजित संगठन ( such as nanpa overseen by neustar inc. ).
पहले a टेलीफोन कॉल is connected, the टेलीफोन क्रमांक जरूर be dialed by the कॉलिंग party or कॉलर.
the called party might have उपकरण कि presents कॉलर id पहले the कॉल is answered.
a संग्रहण agency is a business that pursues भुगतान of debts owed by individuals or businesses.
Most संग्रहण एजेंसियों operate as agents of लेनदारों और collect debts लिये a शुल्क or percentage of the कुल amount owed.
There हैं many types of संग्रहण agencies.
first-party एजेंसियों हैं oftentimes subsidiaries of the असली company the debt is owed to.
third-party एजेंसियों हैं पृथक companies contracted by a कम्पनी to collect debts on उनके निमित्त लिये a fee.
Debt buyers खरीदें the debt at a percentage of इसके value, तब attempt to collect it.
प्रत्येक country रै its own नियम और regulations regarding उन्हें.
Cannabis पुष्प साथ दृश्य trichomes
कैनबिस, also ज्ञात as मारिजुआना ( इससे the Mexican स्पेनी marihuana ), and by अन्य names, is a preparation of the कैनबिस संयंत्र intended लिये use as a psychoactive ड्रग and as medicine.
pharmacologically, the principal psychoactive constituent of cannabis is tetrahydrocannabinol ( THC ) ; it is एक of 483 ज्ञात compounds in the संयंत्र, सहित at least 84 अन्य cannabinoids, such as cannabidiol ( CBD ), cannabinol ( CBN ), tetrahydrocannabivarin ( thcv ).
और cannabigerol ( cbg ).
इस is a सूची of American football quarterbacks who have प्रारंभ for the वॉशिंगटन redskins, as well as इसके पूर्ववर्तियों the बोस्टन braves ( 1932 ) और Boston Redskins ( 1933 – 1936 ), in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League ( NFL ).
the वॉशिंगटन redskins franchise थी originally founded in Boston, मैसाचुसेट्स as the बोस्टन braves, नामित after the लोकल बेसबॉल मताधिकार.
The नाम was changed the following year to the Redskins.
In 1937, the franchise स्थानांतरित to वॉशिंगटन, d.c.
Of the 49 redskins starting quarterbacks, two have महरूम inducted into the प्रो Football Hall of Fame : सैमी Baugh और सन्नी jurgensen.
रॉबर्ट griffin iii 2012-present
जेसन कैम्पबेल 2005-2009
Mark burnell 2004-2007
Mark rypien 1986-1993
Joe theismann 1974-1985
सैमी Baugh 1937-1952
1st Special Forces Operational detachment-delta ( 1st SFOD-D ), popularly known as डेल्टा फ़ोर्स, is एक of the संयुक्त States ' four गुपचुप tier-one counter-terrorism and खास मिशन Units.
it थी formerly सूचीबद्ध as the Combat Applications Group by the विभाग of रक्षा लकिन has चूंकि महरूम officially re-designated the फौज compartmented Elements ( इक्का ).
While 1st sfod-d is administratively समर्थित by usasoc, it जलप्रपात under the operational कंट्रोल of the Joint खास परिचालन Command.
डेल्टा फ़ोर्स और इसके नेवी counterpart, the Naval Special warfare विकास Group, are the संयुक्त राज्य सैन्य 's प्राथमिक counter-terrorism इकाई.
Delta Force 's प्राथमिक कार्य हैं counter-terrorism, सीधा कार्रवाई, and नेशनल हस्तक्षेप operations, हालांकि it is an अत्यधिक बहुमुखी group capable of conducting अनेक प्रकार of covert मिशन, including, लकिन नहीं limited to, बंधक छुटकारा and छापे.
the सेंट्रल प्रज्ञा एजेंसी 's अत्यधिक secretive खास क्रियाएँ प्रभाग ( उदास ) and अधिक specifically its elite Special Operations समूह ( sog ) often works with – और recruits – operators इससे डेल्टा Force.
Alpha क्षय is एक example प्रकार of रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय, in जिससे an परमाणु केंद्रक emits an अल्फा कण, और thereby transforms ( or 'क्षयs ' ) into an अणु साथ a द्रव्यमान क्रमांक 4 कम और atomic क्रमांक 2 कम.
अनेक other types of decays हैं संभावित.
Radioactive decay, भी ज्ञात as नाभिकीय क्षय or radioactivity, is the प्रक्रम by which a nucleus of an unstable atom loses उर्जा by emitting particles of आयनकारी विकिरण.
A सामग्री कि अनायास emits इस kind of radiation — which शामिल the उत्सर्जन of ऊर्जावान alpha अणु, बीटा अणु, and गामा किरणें — is माना radioactive.
वहीँ are अनेक अलग प्रकार of रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय ( see table below ).
a क्षय, or loss of energy, परिणाम when an अणु साथ one प्रकार of केंद्रक, पुकारा the जनक radionuclide, transforms to an atom with a केंद्रक in a अलग राज्य, or to a अलग nucleus containing अलग numbers of protons और neutrons.
either of ये उत्पाद is named the बेटी nuclide.
In कुछ decays the जनक और बेटी are अलग रासायनिक elements, and यूँ the क्षय प्रक्रम परिणाम in नाभिकीय transmutation ( सृष्टि of an अणु of a नई तत्व ).
The पहला decay प्रक्रियाओं to be discovered यहूद अल्फा क्षय, beta decay, और गामा decay.
अल्फा क्षय occurs when the केंद्रक ejects an अल्फा कण ( हीलियम nucleus ).
इस is the most common प्रक्रम of emitting nucleons, लकिन in rarer types of decays, nuclei can eject protons, or विशिष्ट nuclei of other तत्व ( in the process called क्लस्टर क्षय ).
बीटा decay occurs जब the nucleus emits an इलेक्ट्रॉन or positron और a type of neutrino, in a प्रक्रम that परिवर्तन a प्रोटॉन to a neutron or the अन्य रास्ता around.
The केंद्रक may capture an orbiting इलेक्ट्रॉन, converting a प्रोटॉन into a न्यूट्रॉन ( electron कैप्चर ).
सब of these प्रक्रियाओं परिणाम in nuclear transmutation.
by contrast, वहीँ exist रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय प्रक्रियाओं कि do नहीं result in transmutation.
the energy of an उत्साहित केंद्रक may be emitted as a gamma रे in gamma decay, or used to eject an कक्षीय इलेक्ट्रॉन by बातचीत with the उत्साहित nucleus in a प्रक्रम called आतंरिक परिवर्तन.
radioisotopes occasionally emit neutrons, और इस परिणाम in a बदलें in an तत्व from एक समस्थानिक to another.
एक type of रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय results in उत्पाद जिससे are नहीं पारिभाषित, लकिन appear in a दायरा of `` pieces '' of the असली केंद्रक.
This क्षय is पुकारा spontaneous fission.
This क्षय happens जब a large अस्थिर केंद्रक अनायास splits into दो ( and occasionally तीन ) छोटी बेटी nuclei, and प्रायः emits गामा rays, neutrons, or other particles as a consequence.
रेडियोसक्रिय decay is a stochastic ( i.e., यादृच्छिक ) प्रक्रम at the level of single अणु, in कि, according to क्वांटम theory, it is impossible to predict when a particular atom will क्षय.
However, the मौका that a दिए अणु will क्षय is constant over समय.
लिये a large क्रमांक of atoms, the decay rate for the संग्रहण is computable इससे the measured decay स्थिरांक of the nuclides ( or equivalently इससे the half-lifes ).
वैक्सिंग is a रूप of semi-permanent hair removal जिससे removes the बाल इससे the root.
नई बाल होगा नहीं grow back in the previously waxed क्षेत्रफल लिये दो to eight सप्ताह, हालांकि कुछ लोगों होगा प्रारंभ to देखिए regrowth in only a week.
Almost कोई क्षेत्रफल of the देह can be waxed, including eyebrows, फेस, बिकिनी क्षेत्रफल, legs, बाहें, वापस, abdomen and feet.
वहीँ हैं many प्रकार of वैक्सिंग suitable लिये निकालना unwanted बाल.
Strip वैक्सिंग is संपन्नता by spreading a wax thinly over the skin.
A cloth or पेपर strip is then pressed on the शीर्ष and ripped off the दिशा of बाल growth.
इस removes the wax साथ with the बाल.
Strip wax can भी be बना at घर using lemon juice, water, sugar and मधु.
hot waxing utilizes Hot मोम ( as opposed to strip wax ).
in this मामला, the wax is लागू somewhat thickly और साथ no cloth or पेपर स्ट्रिप्स.
The wax तब hardens when it cools, यूँ allowing the easy removal by a चिकित्सक बगैर the सहायता of cloths.
This वैक्सिंग method is very फायदेमंद to लोगों जो have sensitive skin.
वॉल painting ( 1st सदी AD ) from pompeii depicting a multigenerational भोज
Ancient रोमन संस्कृति existed throughout the लगभग 1200-year इतिहास of the civilization of Ancient रोम.
the term refers to the संस्कृति of the Roman Republic, later the रोमन साम्राज्य, जिससे, at its शिखर, covered an area इससे lowland स्कॉटलैंड and मोरक्को to the euphrates.
जीवन in प्राचीन रोम revolved around the city of Rome, इसके famed सात पहाड़ियाँ, और its monumental structures ऐसे as the flavian amphitheatre ( अभी पुकारा the कोलोसियम ), the फ़ोरम of त्राजान, और the pantheon.
The city also था several थिएटर, gymnasiums, और many taverns, baths, and brothels.
Throughout the territory अंतर्गत प्राचीन Rome 's कंट्रोल, आवासीय वास्तुकला ranged from very modest घरों to country विला, and in the पूंजी city of Rome, there were imperial residences on the elegant palatine Hill, from जिससे the शब्द palace is derived.
The विशाल majority of the जनसांख्यिकी जिया in the नगर center, packed into insulae ( अपार्टमेंट ब्लॉक ).
The city of Rome थी the largest megalopolis of कि time, with a जनसांख्यिकी कि may खूब have exceeded one लाख लोगों, साथ a ऊँची end अनुमान of 3.6 लाख and a कम end estimate of 450,000.
ऐतिहासिक estimates indicate कि around 30 प्रतिशत of the जनसांख्यिकी अंतर्गत the city 's jurisdiction जिया in innumerable शहरी centers, साथ population of at तनिक 10,000 और अनेक सैन्य settlements, a बहुत ऊँची rate of urbanization by pre-industrial standards.
The most urbanized भाग of the साम्राज्य was इटली, जिससे था an estimated rate of शहरी of 32 %, the same रेट of urbanization of England in 1800.
सबसे Roman कस्बों and शहरों था a फ़ोरम, temples and the वही type of इमारतें, on a smaller स्केल, as मिला in Rome.
the large शहरी जनसांख्यिकी जरूरी an endless supply of food which थी a जटिल logistical task, सहित acquiring, transporting, storing और वितरण of खाना लिये Rome and अन्य urban centers.
इतालवी खेतो supplied सब्जियां and फल, लकिन मछली और meat were luxuries.
Aqueducts यहूद निर्मित to bring जल to urban centers and वाइन and आयल were आयातित इससे hispania, gaul and अफ़्रीकी.
There थी a very विशाल राशि of commerce between the प्रांतों of the रोमन साम्राज्य, since इसके परिवहन प्रौद्योगिकी was बहुत कुशल.
the औसत लागत of transport और the technology were comparable साथ 18th-century यूरोपीय.
the बाद city of रोम किया नहीं भरण the स्पेस भीतर इसके प्राचीन aurelian दीवारें until बाद 1870.
अस्सी percent of the जनसांख्यिकी अंतर्गत the क्षेत्राधिकार of ancient Rome जिया in the countryside in settlements with कम than 10 thousand inhabitants.
Landlords generally resided in शहरों and उनके estates were बाएँ in the परवाह of farm managers.
The plight of rural स्लेव थी generally बदतर than their counterparts working in urban वैभवशाली households.
to stimulate a उच्चतर labor productivity most जमींदार freed a large number of स्लेव and many प्राप्त मजदूरी.
Some records indicate कि `` as अनेक as 42 लोगों जिया in एक small फार्म हट in मिश्र, जबकि six families स्वामित्व a single olive tree. ''.
Such a ग्रामीण पर्यावरण continued to induce माइग्रेशन of population to शहरी centers जबतक the जल्दी 2nd सदी, जब the शहरी जनसांख्यिकी stopped growing and started to मनाही.
Starting in the मध्य of the 2nd सदी bc, private यूनानी संस्कृति was increasingly in ascendancy, in spite of tirades against the `` softening '' effects of Hellenized संस्कृति from the रूढ़िवादी moralists.
by the समय of augustus, cultured यूनानी household स्लेव taught the Roman young ( sometimes even the girls ) ; chefs, decorators, secretaries, doctors, और hairdressers—all आए from the यूनानी ईस्ट.
Greek sculptures adorned Hellenistic लैंडस्केप बागवानी on the Palatine or in the विला, or were imitated in रोमन sculpture गज by Greek slaves.
the Roman भोजन preserved in the cookery किताबे ascribed to Apicius is essentially यूनानी.
रोमन लेखक disdained लैटिन for a cultured यूनानी स्टाइल.
Only in विधि and शासन थी the Italic nature of Rome 's accretive culture supreme.
Against इस इंसान background, दोनो the शहरी and ग्रामीण सेटिंग, एक of इतिहास 's most influential सभ्यताओं took shape, leaving पीछे a cultural विरासत कि survives in भाग today.
James जोसेफ `` Duffy '' waldorf, Jr. ( born अगस्त 20, 1962 ) is an American पेशेवर मनःस्थिति.
कांच bottles ( for खीरा slices ) on शिपिंग pallets
a सोवियत मेयोनेज़ जार
a modern `` फ्रेंच kilner '' जार
Glass उत्पादन involves two main विधि – the फ्लैश glass प्रक्रम, which produces चादर कांच, और glassblowing जिससे produces bottles और other containers.
a ऋतु is a subdivision of the साल, चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in मौसम, पारिस्थितिकी, and घंटों of daylight.
Seasons result from the वार्षिक revolution of the Earth around the Sun and the झुकाव of the Earth 's axis सापेक्ष to the प्लेन of revolution.
In शीतोष्ण और polar regions, the सीज़न हैं चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in the तीव्रता of धूप कि पहुँच the धरती 's सतह, विसंगतियाँ of which may कारण animals to go into hibernation or to migrate, और plants to be dormant.
दौरान may, June and जुलाई, the उत्तरी गोलार्ध is exposed to अधिक direct धूप क्युकी the hemisphere चेहरों the सूर्य.
the same is सच्चा of the southern hemisphere in नवम्बर, December and January.
It is the झुकाव of the धरती that causes the सूर्य to be higher in the आसमान दौरान the summer महीने जिससे increases the solar फ्लक्स.
However, due to मौसमी lag, जून, July and अगस्त हैं the hottest months in the उत्तरी hemisphere and December, January और फ़रवरी हैं the hottest months in the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध.
in शीतोष्ण और subpolar regions, generally four पंचांग -based सीज़न ( साथ उनके adjectives ) are पहचाना : spring ( vernal ), गर्मियाँ ( estival ), पतझड़ ( autumnal ) और winter ( hibernal ).
however, ecologists ज़्यादातर use a six season model लिये शीतोष्ण जलवायु regions कि शामिल pre-spring ( prevernal ) और late summer ( serotinal ) as पृथक सीज़न साथ साथ the परंपरागत चार.
hot regions have two or three सीज़न ; the बरसात ( or wet, or monsoon ) season और the dry ऋतु, and in some तीव्र क्षेत्रों, a कूल or mild season.
in some parts of the world, special `` सीज़न '' are loosely पारिभाषित आधारित on important कार्यक्रम ऐसे as a hurricane season, tornado season or a दावानल season.
The six ecological seasons
the चार calendar सीज़न, चित्रित in an प्राचीन Roman mosaic from Tunisia
the बैटल of Fort sumter ( अप्रैल 12–14, 1861 ) was the bombardment और आत्मसमर्पण of Fort Sumter, निकट Charleston, दक्षिण कैरोलिना, कि प्रारंभ the अमरीकी सिविल War.
Following घोषणाओं of secession by सात Southern राज्य, दक्षिण Carolina demanded कि the U.S. फौज लापरवाही its facilities in Charleston हार्बर.
on December 26, 1860, U.S. प्रमुख Robert Anderson surreptitiously स्थानांतरित उसके छोटी command from the indefensible फोर्ट Moultrie on सुलीवान 's Island to Fort Sumter, a substantial किला controlling the प्रवेश of चार्ल्सटन Harbor.
an attempt by U.S. अध्यक्ष James Buchanan to reinforce और resupply एंडरसन, using the निहत्थे व्यापारी ship स्टार of the वेस्ट, failed when it was fired upon by shore बैटरी on जनवरी 9, 1861.
दक्षिण कैरोलिना अधिकारियों then जब्त सब संघीय property in the चार्ल्सटन area, except for फोर्ट Sumter.
During the जल्दी महीने of 1861, the हालात around Fort sumter increasingly began to resemble a siege.
in कूच, Brig. gen. P. G. T. Beauregard, the पहला सामान्य अधिकारी of the newly formed Confederate राज्य of America, थी placed in command of confederate शक्तियां in चार्ल्सटन.
Beauregard energetically directed the strengthening of batteries around Charleston harbor aimed at फोर्ट sumter.
शर्तें in the फोर्ट grew dire as the Union सैनिको rushed to पूरा the installation of अतिरिक्त बंदूकों.
Anderson थी छोटी of men, food, और आपूर्तियाँ.
The resupply of फोर्ट sumter became the पहला संकट of the administration of President अब्राहम Lincoln.
he notified the Governor of South Carolina, फ्रांसिस W. Pickens, कि he was sending सप्लाई जहाजों, जिससे resulted in an ultimatum इससे the Confederate government : evacuate फोर्ट sumter immediately.
प्रमुख Anderson refused to आत्मसमर्पण.
Beginning at 4:30 a.m. on April 12, the Confederates bombarded the फोर्ट इससे artillery batteries surrounding the हार्बर.
हालांकि the Union गैरीसन returned fire, वे यहूद significantly outgunned और, बाद 34 घंटों, प्रमुख Anderson सहमत to evacuate.
वहीँ थी no घाटा of life on either पक्ष as a सीधा परिणाम of इस सगाई, हालांकि a गन explosion during the आत्मसमर्पण ceremonies on अप्रैल 14 caused दो Union मौतों.
following the बैटल, वहीँ थी widespread support from दोनो उत्तर और दक्षिण for further सैन्य action.
lincoln 's immediate call for 75,000 volunteers to दबाने the विद्रोह resulted in an additional चार southern स्लेव states also declaring उनके secession और joining the confederacy.
the सिविल युद्ध था begun.
3g, short लिये तीसरा पीढी, is the third generation of मोबाईल telecommunications प्रौद्योगिकी.
3g telecommunication संजाल support services कि provide an सूचना transfer rate of at तनिक 200 kbit/s.
however, अनेक सेवाएं advertised as 3G provide higher गति than the न्यूनतम तकनीकी requirements लिये a 3G service.
हाल 3g releases, often denoted 3.5G and 3.75g, also provide मोबाईल broadband access of several mbit/s to smartphones and मोबाईल modems in लैपटॉप computers.
3g finds application in बेतार आवाज़ telephony, मोबाईल अंतरजाल अभिगम, fixed wireless अंतरजाल अभिगम, वीडियो काल्स और mobile TV.
`` mazel tov ! '' लिखा on a वाइन कांच टैग
traditionally, after the दूल्हे ब्रेक the glass, the guests shout `` mazel Tov ! ``.
a birthday केक, iced साथ the शब्द `` מזל טוב '' ( mazal tov ), as is प्रायः किया in Israel.
यहाँ the phrase is लिखा in Hebrew कर्सिव.
`` Mazel tov '' or `` mazal tov '' ( Hebrew / यहूदी : `` מזל טוב '', यहूदी : `` mazal tov '' ; Yiddish : `` mazel tov '' ; lit.
`` good लक '' ) is a phrase used to express बधाई for a प्रसन्न and significant occasion or इवेंट.
hepatitis C is an संक्रामक बीमारी affecting primarily the जिगर, caused by the hepatitis c virus ( HCV ).
The infection is प्रायः asymptomatic, लकिन दीर्घकालिक संक्रमण can सीसे to scarring of the जिगर and ultimately to cirrhosis, जिससे is generally apparent बाद many सालो.
in कुछ मामले, those साथ cirrhosis होगा go on to develop liver failure, जिगर कर्कट or life-threatening esophageal और gastric varices.
hcv is spread primarily by blood-to-blood सम्पर्क associated with intravenous drug उपयोग, poorly sterilized चिकित्सा equipment and transfusions.
An अनुमानित 130–200 million लोगों विश्वव्यापी हैं infected साथ.
The अस्तित्व of ( originally `` non- A non- b hepatitis '' ) was postulated in the 1970s और proven in 1989.
तभी infects इंसानो और chimpanzees.
the वायरस persists in the जिगर in परिचय 85 % of those संक्रमित.
इस persistent संक्रमण can be treated साथ दवा : the मानक therapy is a संयोजन of peginterferon and ribavirin, साथ either boceprevir or telaprevir added in कुछ cases.
overall, 50–80 % of लोगों treated are cured.
Those जो develop cirrhosis or जिगर कर्कट may आवश्यकता a liver transplant.
is the अग्रणी cause of liver प्रत्यारोपण, हालांकि the virus usually बारंबार बाद प्रत्यारोपण.
no टीका against is उपलब्धियाँ.
A लचीली बिता खाता ( fsa ), भी ज्ञात as a flexible बिता arrangement, is एक of a क्रमांक of tax-advantaged वित्तीय खाते कि can be नियत up through a cafeteria योजना of an employer in the संयुक्त राज्य.
An fsa allows an कर्मचारी to नियत aside a portion of earnings to अदा लिये योग्य खर्च as स्थापित in the कैफेटेरिया योजना, सबसे commonly for चिकित्सा खर्च but often लिये निर्भर care or अन्य खर्च.
Money deducted from an कर्मचारी 's अदा into an fsa is नहीं विषय to payroll कर, resulting in substantial payroll tax बचत.
One significant disadvantage to using an FSA is कि निधि not प्रयुक्त by the समाप्त of the योजना year are खोया to the कर्मचारी, ज्ञात as the `` उपयोग it or खोना it '' rule.
the सबसे common type of लचीली बिता खाता, the medical expense FSA ( भी चिकित्सा fsa or health FSA ), is समान to a health बचत account ( HSA ) or a स्वास्थ्य reimbursement खाता ( hra ).
However, जबकि hsas और hras हैं लगभग exclusively used as components of a उपभोक्ता चलित health care योजना, medical FSAs हैं commonly offered with more traditional स्वास्थ्य plans as well.
in addition, निधि in a स्वास्थ्य savings account हैं नहीं lost when the योजना साल is over, unlike funds in an FSA.
Paper forms or an fsa डेबिट कार्ड, भी known as a flexcard, may be used to access the खाता funds.
टेनेसी ( ) ( ) is a u.S. राज्य located in the southeastern United राज्य.
Tennessee is the 36th most extensive and the 17th सबसे populous of the 50 United राज्य.
Tennessee is bordered by Kentucky और वर्जिनिया to the north, North कैरोलिना to the ईस्ट, जॉर्जिया, अलबामा, and Mississippi to the south, और अरकंसास और Missouri to the वेस्ट.
the Appalachian Mountains dominate the eastern भाग of the राज्य, and the मिसिसिपी River फ़ॉर्म the state 's पश्चिमी किनारा.
टेनेसी 's capital और दूसरी largest city is Nashville, which रै a population of 609,644.
Memphis is the राज्य 's largest नगर, with a population of 652,050.
The state of Tennessee is rooted in the Watauga संघ, a 1772 frontier अनुबंध generally regarded as the पहला संवैधानिक government वेस्ट of the Appalachians.
What is अभी टेनेसी थी initially part of उत्तर कैरोलिना, and बाद भाग of the Southwest Territory.
टेनेसी was admitted to the संघ as the 16th राज्य on जून 1, 1796.
टेनेसी थी the last राज्य to leave the Union and जुड़ें the confederacy at the outbreak of the u.S. Civil War in 1861, and the first state to be readmitted to the Union at the end of the युद्ध.
टेनेसी सुसज्जित अधिक सैनिको लिये the Confederate Army than कोई other राज्य, and more soldiers लिये the संघ फौज than कोई अन्य Southern राज्य.
in the 20th century, टेनेसी transitioned इससे an agrarian अर्थव्यवस्था to a more diversified अर्थव्यवस्था, aided at टाइम्स by संघीय entities such as the Tennessee घाटी Authority.
In the early 1940s, the city of ओक लकीरें थी स्थापित to हाउस the मैनहटन Project 's uranium संवर्धन facilities, helping to निर्माण the world 's first परमाणु bomb.
Tennessee has played a critical role in the development of अनेक फ़ॉर्म of अमरीकी लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक, सहित rock और roll, ब्लूज़, country, और rockabilly.
beale गली in Memphis is माना by many to be the जन्मस्थान of the ब्लूज़, with musicians ऐसे as W.C. Handy performing in इसके clubs as early as 1909.
Memphis was also घर to Sun Records, जहाँ संगीतकारों ऐसे as एल्विस प्रेस्ली, इसहाक़ हेज़, जॉनी नकदी, कार्ल Perkins, Jerry ली लुईस, रॉय Orbison, और चार्ली समृद्ध began उनके recording करियर, और where rock और फेंकें took आकार in the 1950s.
the 1927 विक्टर रिकॉर्डिंग सत्र in Bristol generally mark the शुरूआत of the country music विधा और the वृद्धि of the ग्रैंड ओले opry in the 1930s helped मेक नैशविले the center of the country म्यूज़िक रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग.
Three ईंटें और गारा museums recognize टेनेसी 's role in nurturing various forms of लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक : the मेम्फिस चट्टान N ' Soul Museum, the देश म्यूज़िक Hall of Fame और Museum in Nashville, and the International rock-a-billy संग्रहालय in Jackson.
in addition, the Rockabilly Hall of कीर्ति, an ऑनलाइन साईट recognizing the विकास of rockabilly in जिससे टेनेसी निभाई a crucial भूमिका, is based in Nashville.
टेनेसी 's major industries include कृषि, निर्माण, और tourism.
Poultry, soybeans, और cattle हैं the state 's प्राथमिक agricultural products, and major निर्माण exports शामिल chemicals, परिवहन equipment, और विद्युत उपकरण.
the Great Smoky kyu नेशनल पार्क, the nation 's most visited नेशनल पार्क, is headquartered in the पूर्वी part of the state, and a खण्ड of the Appalachian Trail roughly फ़ॉलो the tennessee-north कैरोलिना किनारा.
अन्य major पर्यटक attractions include the टेनेसी एक्वेरियम in चट्टानूगा, the sunsphere in Knoxville, dollywood in कबूतर forge, the Parthenon, the Country Music Hall of कीर्ति and संग्रहालय, और Ryman Auditorium in Nashville, और एल्विस प्रेस्ली 's graceland निवास और मकबरा in मेम्फिस.
एक design variant of a मुर्गा रिंग.
a मुर्गा ring is a रिंग कि can be placed around a man 's penis, usually at the base, primarily to slow the प्रवाह of blood from the वीर्यपात penile ऊतक, यूँ maintaining an स्तंभन लिये a much longer काल of समय.
मुर्गा बजती can be worn around just the शिश्न or दोनो the शिश्न और scrotum, or just the scrotum अलोन, हालांकि इस is प्रायः called a testicle कफ.
Rings can be made of a किस्में of different materials, most commonly चमड़े, रबर, or silicone, हालांकि नायलॉन and मेटल हैं भी प्रयुक्त either as the main component or भाग of the closure.
The पद cock ring is sometimes प्रयुक्त as a पर्याय for a प्रिंस अल्बर्ट piercing, a piercing of the penis that is प्रायः, though नहीं always, a metal रिंग.
When प्रयुक्त in मामले of erectile dysfunction they are ज्ञात by various names such as `` स्तंभन रिंग '' और `` टेंशन रिंग ''.
the headquarters of Major लीग Baseball at 245 Park Avenue, midtown Manhattan, New यॉर्क नगर, USA.
Major League Baseball ( MLB ) is a पेशेवर baseball लीग, consisting of टीमों कि play in the National लीग और the अमरीकी League.
डेटिंग to 1876 और 1901 respectively, the two leagues merged in 2000 into a सिंगल organization led by the कमिश्नर of बेसबॉल, बाद 100 years as पृथक विधिक entities.
MLB constitutes एक of the प्रमुख professional sports leagues of the United States और Canada.
It is composed of 30 टीमों — 29 in the United States और एक in कनाडा.
टीमों in एमएलबी खेल 162 games each season over छह महीने ( अप्रैल through सितंबर ).
Five टीमों in प्रत्येक league अग्रिम to a four-round postseason टूर्नामेंट that culminates in the संसार श्रेणी, a best-of-seven-games चैंपियनशिप series between the two लीग champions which तिथियाँ to 1903.
the संगठन oversees many minor-league बेसबॉल leagues which operate about 240 teams संबद्ध साथ the major-league क्लब.
साथ the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Baseball संघ, the league भी manages the अंतरराष्ट्रीय World बेसबॉल क्लासिक टूर्नामेंट.
MLB रै the highest ऋतु attendance of कोई खेल league in the world साथ nearly 75 लाख spectators in 2012.
डेलावेयर ( ) is a u.S. राज्य स्तिथ on the अटलांटिक coast in the mid-atlantic प्रदेश of the United राज्य.
It is bordered to the south और वेस्ट by Maryland, to the पूर्वोत्तर by नई Jersey, और to the उत्तर by पेन्सिलवेनिया.
the राज्य takes its नाम इससे Thomas West, 3rd सामन्त de La warr, an अंग्रेज़ी nobleman and वर्जिनिया 's पहला औपनिवेशिक governor, after जिसको कया is now पुकारा Cape Henlopen थी originally named.
Delaware is स्तिथ in the northeastern portion of the delmarva Peninsula और is the दूसरी smallest, the sixth least populous, लकिन the sixth सबसे densely आबादी of the पचास United States.
Delaware is विभाजित into three काउंटी.
From north to south, these three काउंटी हैं नई Castle, Kent, और Sussex.
जबकि the दक्षिणी दो काउंटी have historically been predominantly agricultural, नई Castle काउंटी has महरूम more industrialized.
पहले इसके तटरेखा was explored by europeans in the 16th सदी, Delaware was inhabited by अनेक समूह of Native अमेरिकी, including the lenape in the north और nanticoke in the दक्षिण.
it थी initially colonized by Dutch व्यापारियों at zwaanendael, located near the present कस्बा of Lewes, in 1631.
डेलावेयर was one of the 13 colonies participating in the American Revolution और on December 7, 1787, became the first राज्य to ratify the संविधान of the संयुक्त राज्य, thereby becoming ज्ञात as the First राज्य.
उर्जा परिवर्तन in उर्जा प्रणालियों भाषा
उर्जा परिवर्तन or energy परिवर्तन is the process of changing एक रूप of energy to another.
In भौतिकी, the term energy describes the क्षमता to produce निश्चित परिवर्तन within a system, बगैर लिहाज़ to सीमाएं in परिवर्तन imposed by एन्ट्रॉपी.
परिवर्तन in कुल उर्जा of प्रणालियों can तभी be संपन्नता by adding or subtracting energy from उन्हें, as energy is a मात्रा जिससे is conserved, according to the first विधि of ऊष्मागतिकी.
According to खास relativity, परिवर्तन in the energy of systems होगा also coincide with परिवर्तन in the प्रणाली 's mass, और the कुल राशि of mass of a system is a measure of इसके उर्जा.
Energy in a प्रणाली may be रूपांतरित so that it resides in a अलग राज्य, or a अलग type of उर्जा.
उर्जा in अनेक राज्य may be used to do अनेक किस्में of physical work.
उर्जा may be प्रयुक्त in प्राकृतिक प्रक्रियाओं or मशीने, or else to provide कुछ सेवा to समाज ( such as heat, light, or गति ).
For example, an आतंरिक combustion इंजन converts the potential chemical energy in गैसोलीन and ऑक्सीजन into ऊष्मा, जिससे is तब रूपांतरित into the propulsive उर्जा ( kinetic energy that चालें a गाडी ).
a solar cell converts सौर विकिरण into विद्युत energy that can then be used to light a bulb or power a कंप्यूटर.
The generic name for a यंत्र which converts उर्जा from एक form to another, is a ट्रान्सड्यूसर.
In सामान्य, सबसे types of energy, save लिये thermal energy, may be converted efficiently to कोई अन्य दयालु of energy.
sometimes this occurs with an दक्षता of essentially 100 %, ऐसे as when potential energy is परिवर्तित to गतिज energy as an object जलप्रपात in vacuum, or जब it orbits nearer or दूर from another object, in space.
परिवर्तन of other types of energies to heat may also occurs साथ nearly perfect दक्षता ( many types of घर्षण do this ).
अपवाद लिये पूर्ण परिवर्तन दक्षता ( even for पृथक systems ) occur जब उर्जा रै already महरूम partly distributed among अनेक available क्वांटम states लिये a संग्रहण of particles, which are freely अनुमत to explore कोई state of momentum और position ( phase स्पेस ).
in such हालातों, a माप पुकारा एन्ट्रॉपी, or evening-out of उर्जा वितरण in ऐसे states, dictates कि भविष्य states of the प्रणाली must be of at least equal evenness in energy distribution.
( वहीँ is no way, taking the universe as a whole, to collect energy into fewer states, एकबार it has स्प्रेड to उन्हें ).
A consequence of this आवश्यकता is that वहीँ are सीमाएं to the दक्षता साथ जिससे थर्मल उर्जा can be converted to other kinds of उर्जा, चूंकि thermal उर्जा in equilibrium at a दिए तापमान already represents the maximal evening-out of उर्जा between सब possible राज्य.
Such energy is sometimes माना `` degraded उर्जा, '' because it is not entirely usable.
the दूसरी law of ऊष्मागतिकी is a way of stating कि, लिये this कारण, थर्मल उर्जा in a प्रणाली may be converted to अन्य kinds of energy साथ efficiencies approaching 100 %, तभी if the entropy ( even-ness or विकार ) of the ब्रह्मांड is increased by other अर्थात्, to compensate for the घटी in entropy संबद्ध साथ the disappearance of the थर्मल energy और इसके एन्ट्रॉपी content.
वरना, तभी a भाग of thermal उर्जा may be converted to अन्य kinds of उर्जा ( और thus, उपयोगी कार्य ), since the शेष of the ऊष्मा जरूर be सुरक्षित to be transferred to a thermal reservoir at a lower तापमान, in ऐसे a way that the increase in Entropy लिये this process अधिक than compensates लिये the एन्ट्रॉपी घटी associated with परिवर्तन of the बाकी of the ऊष्मा into अन्य प्रकार of energy.
The नेशनल हॉकी लीग ( एनएचएल ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit संघ '' which operates a प्रमुख professional बर्फ hockey लीग of 30 franchised सदस्य क्लब, of जिससे seven हैं currently located in Canada और 23 in the United राज्य.
Headquartered in नई यॉर्क नगर, the NHL is widely considered to be the प्रीमियर पेशेवर ice हॉकी लीग in the world, and one of the major पेशेवर खेल leagues in the संयुक्त States and कनाडा.
The Stanley Cup, the oldest पेशेवर sports ट्रॉफी in उत्तर अमेरिका, is awarded annually to the लीग playoff champion at the समाप्त of प्रत्येक ऋतु.
the लीग थी organized on नवम्बर 26, 1917, in Montreal, क्यूबेक, कनाडा, बाद the suspension of operations of इसके पूर्ववर्ती संगठन, the नेशनल Hockey संघ ( NHA ), जिससे था महरूम संस्थापित in 1909.
it प्रारंभ साथ four टीमों and, through a series of expansions, contractions, and relocations, the league is now composed of 30 active franchises.
the स्वदेश to जिससे the name of the लीग originally referred was कनाडा, हालांकि the league has अभी महरूम binational चूंकि 1924 when it expanded into the संयुक्त States.
After a labour dispute कि led to the रद्दीकरण of the संपूर्ण 2004–05 ऋतु, the league resumed play अंतर्गत a नई collective bargaining अनुबंध कि included a salary cap.
In 2009, the NHL enjoyed रिकार्ड highs in शर्तें of sponsorships, attendance, और टेलीविज़न ऑडियंस.
the NHL draws many highly skilled खिलाड़ी इससे all over the world और फिलहाल रै खिलाड़ी from about 20 different देशों.
Although Canadians have historically गठित the majority of the खिलाड़ी in the एनएचएल, over the पास्ट four plus decades the percentages of US और यूरोपीय खिलाड़ी have increased both क्युकी of the एनएचएल 's continued विस्तार इससे six to thirty क्लब since 1967, और the increased उपलब्धता of अत्यधिक skilled यूरोपीय खिलाड़ी.
This is the complete list of the ratified और unratified amendments to the संयुक्त States संविधान which प्राप्त the स्वीकृति of the संयुक्त States कॉंग्रेस.
Twenty-seven amendments have been ratified since the असली हस्ताक्षर of the संविधान, the first टेन of which are known collectively as the विधेयक of अधिकारों.
the कार्यविधि for amending the संयुक्त States Constitution is governed by आलेख v of the असली टेक्स्ट.
There have been many अन्य प्रस्ताव लिये amendments to the United राज्य संविधान introduced in Congress, लकिन नहीं सुपुर्द to the states.
पहले an amendment can लो प्रभाव, it must be proposed to the states by a two-thirds vote of both घरों of Congress or by a सम्मेलन ( ज्ञात as an Article V convention ) पुकारा by two-thirds of the राज्य, और ratified by three-fourths of the states or by three-fourths of प्रथाओं thereof, the विधि of अनुसमर्थन होने determined by Congress at the time of proposal.
to date, no सम्मेलन लिये proposing amendments has महरूम called by the राज्य, और only once—in 1933 for the ratification of the twenty-first amendment —has the सम्मेलन method of अनुसमर्थन महरूम employed.
fmr llc ( वफ़ादारी प्रबन्धन और शोध ) or वफ़ादारी निवेश is an अमरीकी बहुराष्ट्रीय वित्तीय सेवाएं corporation.
It is एक of the largest mutual निधि और financial सेवाएं समूह in the संसार.
it was founded in 1946 और serves उत्तर अमरीकी investors.
Fidelity Ventures is its venture capital arm.
Fidelity अंतरराष्ट्रीय सीमित ( फील ), was an अंतरराष्ट्रीय affiliate founded in 1969, सेवारत सबसे countries in the बाकी of the संसार.
in September 2011, FIL was rebranded as 'Fidelity विश्वव्यापी Investment '.
वफ़ादारी निवेश manages a large परिवार of परस्पर निधि, provides निधि वितरण और निवेश सलाह सेवाएं, as खूब as providing छूट brokerage services, रिटायरमेंट सेवाएं, माल प्रबन्धन, securities execution and क्लीयरेंस, जीवन बीमे और a क्रमांक of अन्य services.
June 2006 थी the छठे माह of कि साल.
it began on a Thursday and ended बाद 30 days on a शुक्रवार the following events also occurred दौरान the month:
Sociology is the वैज्ञानिक पढ़ाई of human society and इसके origins, development, संगठन, और संस्थानों.
It is a social science जिससे उपयोग various methods of empirical छानबीन और critical विश्लेषण to develop a body of knowledge परिचय इंसान social activity, structures, and functions.
A goal for many sociologists is to conduct शोध which may be लागू सीधे to सोशल policy and welfare, while अन्य फ़ोकस primarily on शोधन the theoretical समझना of सोशल प्रक्रियाओं.
Subject matter ranges from the micro स्तर of व्यक्तिगत agency और interaction to the मैक्रो स्तर of प्रणालियों और the सोशल structure.
The traditional focuses of समाजशास्त्र include सोशल stratification, सोशल class, culture, रेस और ethnicity, gender and कामुकता, सोशल गतिशीलता, धर्म, secularization, विधि, and deviance.
As सब spheres of इंसान activity हैं affected by the interplay between सोशल ढांचा and व्यक्तिगत agency, समाजशास्त्र रै gradually विस्तारित इसके फ़ोकस to further विषय, such as health, medical, सैन्य और penal institutions, the अंतरजाल, environmental sociology, political अर्थव्यवस्था और the भूमिका of सोशल कार्यकलाप in the विकास of वैज्ञानिक knowledge.
The range of सोशल scientific विधि रै also विस्तारित.
Social researchers draw upon a variety of qualitative and quantitative तकनीकों.
the भाषाई और सांस्कृतिक turns of the mid-twentieth सदी led to increasingly interpretative, hermeneutic, and philosophic approaches to the विश्लेषण of समाज.
conversely, recent decades have seen the वृद्धि of new analytically, mathematically and computationally rigorous तकनीकों, such as agent-based modelling and सोशल network विश्लेषण.
Sociology चाहिए नहीं be confused with various सामान्य social अध्ययन courses जिससे bear little relation to समाजशास्त्रीय सिद्धान्त or सोशल science research methodology.
Thunder is the sound caused by बिजली.
depending on the nature of the बिजली और अलहदा of the listener, थंडर can दायरा from a sharp, loud crack to a long, कम rumble ( brontide ).
the अचानक बढ़ाएँ in pressure और तापमान from lightning produces rapid विस्तार of the एयर surrounding और भीतर a bolt of lightning.
in turn, इस expansion of air creates a सोनिक शॉक वेव, समान to a sonic boom, जिससे produces the ध्वनि of thunder, प्रायः referred to as a clap, crack, or peal of thunder.
The distance of the lightning can be calculated by the श्रोता आधारित on the समय अंतराल इससे when the बिजली is seen to जब the ध्वनि is सुना.
पालमा (,, ), in पूरा पालमा de Mallorca, is the major नगर और port on the द्वीप of majorca ( mallorca ) and capital नगर of the autonomous जातियाँ of the balearic Islands in स्पेन.
The names ciutat de mallorca ( City of majorca ) and Ciutat ( नगर ) were used पहले the युद्ध of the स्पेनी उत्तराधिकार and हैं still used by लोगों in majorca.
however, the आधिकारिक name was Mallorca, the वही as the island.
it is situated on the south coast of the island on the खाड़ी of Palma.
as of the 2009 census, the population of the नगर of पालमा उचित was 401,270, and the जनसांख्यिकी of the संपूर्ण शहरी क्षेत्रफल थी 517,285, ranking as the बारहवीं largest शहरी क्षेत्रफल of स्पेन.
लगभग half of the total जनसांख्यिकी of Majorca live in पालमा.
the cabrera Archipelago, हालांकि widely अलग from Palma उचित, is administratively माना part of the municipality.
Its विमानक्षेत्र, बेटे Sant Joan, serves over 22 million यात्री each साल.
the marivent Palace was offered by the city to the तब प्रिंस जुआन कार्लोस i of स्पेन.
the रॉयल्स have चूंकि खर्च उनके summer छुट्टियाँ in पालमा.
luthor redirects here.
For अन्य uses, see लूथर ( disambiguation ).
सिकंदर जोसेफ `` Lex '' luthor is a fictional अक्षर, a supervillain appearing in कॉमिक books published by dc कॉमिक्स.
Luthor is the archenemy of Superman, और as a high-status supervillain, रै भी come into विरोध with बैटमैन and other superheroes in the dc Universe.
निर्मित by जेरी Siegel और Joe shuster, the character पहला appeared in Action Comics # 23 ( अप्रैल 1940 ).
Luthor is वर्णित as `` a power-mad, evil scientist '' of ऊँची intelligence और incredible technological prowess.
luthor 's लक्ष्य typically center on killing सुपरमैन, the foremost बाधा to achieving the विलेन 's megalomaniacal लक्ष्य.
despite periodically wearing a powered बहि, luthor रै traditionally lacked superpowers or a डुअल identity.
the अक्षर थी originally चित्रित as a mad scientist जो, in the रग of pulp novels, wreaks havoc on the संसार साथ his अत्याधुनिक weaponry.
in उसके earliest appearances, Luthor is shown साथ a पूरा head of red बाल.
despite इस, the अक्षर later became hairless as the result of an कलाकार 's mistake.
a 1960 स्टोरी by जेरी Siegel विस्तारित upon luthor 's origin और motivations, revealing उसे to be a childhood dost of सुपरमैन 's who खोया his बाल जब a आग नष्ट his प्रयोगशाला ; luthor vowed बदला.
Following the 1985 limited श्रेणी Crisis on अनन्त earths, the अक्षर was re-imagined as a machiavellian उद्योगपति and white-collar दण्ड, भी briefly सेवारत as President of the संयुक्त राज्य.
in recent सालो, विभिन्न लेखक have revived Luthor 's mad वैज्ञानिक persona इससे the 1940s.
the character was ranked as the 8th महानतम विलेन by जादूगर on इसके 100 Greatest खलनायक of सब Time list.
ign 's सूची of the Top 100 कॉमिक किताब खलनायक of सब Time क्रमित luthor as # 4.
Luthor is भी वर्णित as a `` megavillain '' by कॉमिक किताब आलोचक पीटर Sanderson, एक of a few genre-crossing खलनायक जिनकी adventures लो प्लेस `` in a संसार in जिससे the ordinary कानून of प्रकृति हैं slightly suspended '' ; characters such as प्राध्यापक moriarty, Count ड्रैकुला, Hannibal lecter, Doctor यातना, और darth Vader, भी fit इस वर्णन.
Martin लूथर किंग, Jr. Day is a संयुक्त राज्य federal holiday अंकन the जन्मदिवस of रेव. dr. मार्टिन लूथर King, Jr.
it is observed on the तीसरा Monday of January प्रत्येक साल, जिससे is around the समय of King 's जन्मदिवस, जनवरी 15.
The floating अवकाश is समान to छुट्टियाँ set under the वर्दी सोमवार अवकाश Act, हालांकि the अधिनियम predated the स्थापना of मार्टिन लूथर King, jr. दिन by 15 years.
किंग was the chief spokesman लिये nonviolent सक्रियता in the civil rights movement, which सफलतापूर्वक protested racial पक्षपात in संघीय और state विधि.
The campaign for a federal अवकाश in किंग 's honor began जल्द after his हत्या in 1968.
रोनाल्ड reagan हस्ताक्षरित the अवकाश into law in 1983, और it थी first observed on जनवरी 20, 1986.
At पहला, कुछ राज्य resisted observing the अवकाश as ऐसे, giving it वैकल्पिक names or combining it साथ other छुट्टियाँ.
it थी officially observed in all 50 राज्य for the first time in 2000.
the कैमरा phone solution allows तत्काल sharing of तस्वीरें.
As it 's स्वचालित और instant, the उपयोक्ता करता नहीं have to उपयोग a केबल or removable मीडिया to connect to a निजी कंप्यूटर.
a camera फोन is a मोबाईल फोन which is समर्थ to कैप्चर स्टिल छायाचित्र ( and प्रायः video ).
चूंकि जल्दी in the 21st सदी the majority of मोबाईल फोन in use हैं कैमरा phones.
सबसे कैमरा फोन are simpler than पृथक digital कैमरे.
Their usual फिक्स्ड फ़ोकस lenses and छोटी sensors limit उनके प्रदर्शन in ग़रीब lighting.
Lacking a शारीरिक शटर, सबसे have a long शटर lag.
फ्लैश, जहाँ present, is प्रायः कमजोर.
ऑप्टिकल zoom and तिपाई screws हैं rare.
कुछ also lack a USB connection, removable memory कार्ड, or other रास्ता of transferring their pictures अधिक जल्दी than by the फोन 's अंतर्निहित communication विशेषता.
कुछ of the more महंगी कैमरा फोन have तभी a few of these technical disadvantages, जिससे apply most acutely in low लाइट शर्तें और in कोई case have not inhibited उनके widespread use.
सबसे मॉडल लाइनों improve in these regards every year or two.
कुछ, ऐसे as the Droid Incredible तभी have a menu choice to start an application program to activate the कैमरा.
अन्य, such as the ब्लैकबेरी तूफ़ान 2, droid x, Motorola v980 और Nokia 5800 भी have a पृथक कैमरा बटन for quickness and convenience.
Windows फोन can be configured to operate as a कैमरा even if the फोन is asleep.
Some camera phones हैं designed to resemble पृथक low-end डिजिटल कॉम्पैक्ट cameras in appearance और to कुछ extent in features and picture quality, और हैं branded as both mobile phones and cameras, सहित निश्चित सोनी फोन.
the principal advantages of कैमरा फोन are लागत and compactness ; indeed लिये a user who carries a मोबाईल फोन anyway, the अतिरिक्त size और cost are negligible.
Smartphones that are camera phones may run mobile applications to add सामर्थ्य such as geotagging और चित्र stitching.
a few ऊँची end phones can उपयोग उनके touch screen to सीधा उनके camera to focus on a particular object in the फ़ील्ड of दृश्य, giving भी an अनुभवहीन उपयोक्ता a degree of फ़ोकस कंट्रोल exceeded तभी by seasoned फ़ोटोग्राफ़र using manual फ़ोकस.
`` whatever Happened to the man of Tomorrow ? '' is a 1986 comic book story featuring the DC Comics अक्षर of सुपरमैन.
Written by Alan Moore साथ help from long-time, and जल्द to be retiring, Superman एडिटर, जूलियस schwartz, the स्टोरी थी published in दो parts, beginning in सुपरमैन # 423 और समाप्ति in कार्रवाई Comics # 583, दोनो प्रकाशित in सितंबर 1986.
the स्टोरी was drawn by long-time कलाकार Curt Swan, in his फाइनल major योगदान to the सुपरमैन शीर्षक, and was inked by जार्ज pérez in the issue of सुपरमैन और कर्ट schaffenberger in the समस्या of कार्रवाई कॉमिक्स.
The स्टोरी was an imaginary टेल which told the final स्टोरी of the चांदी आयु सुपरमैन और उसके long history, जिससे थी being rebooted following the events of Crisis on अनन्त earths, before उसके आधुनिक introduction in the John Byrne series, the man of स्टील.
मूर चाही उसके प्लाट to honor the long history of the character और to serve as a पूरा conclusion to his mythology.
the स्टोरी is a frame story set ten years बाद Superman was last देखी, जहाँ लोइस Lane recounts the tale of the समाप्त of Superman 's career to a रिपोर्टर इससे the रोज़ ग्रह.
Her story शामिल numerous violent attacks against सुपरमैन by his दुश्मनों, the पब्लिक रहस्योद्घाटन of his रहस्य identity of क्लार्क Kent और a क्रमांक of मौतों of those closest to उसे.
the story रै महरूम cited as one of the best कहानियां of the अक्षर of Superman, और आलोचकों और ऑडियंस अक्सर चुनें it as एक of the most memorable कॉमिक्स कभी प्रकाशित.
it is प्रयुक्त as an उदाहरण of how to बंद the long-time निरंतरता of a कॉमिक किताब character.
the story 's legacy रै endured साथ समान stories लिखा as श्रद्धांजलि to it.
The शीर्षक is a reference to one of the nicknames of सुपरमैन as the man of Tomorrow, और थी प्रयुक्त in the शीर्षक of another Superman.
the bugatti Veyron eb 16.4 is a mid-engined ग्रैंड touring car, designed and विकसित by the volkswagen Group और manufactured in molsheim, फ़्रांस by bugatti Automobiles s.a.s.
The सुपर Sport संस्करण of the veyron is the fastest street-legal उत्पादन car in the world, साथ a शीर्ष speed of.
The असली संस्करण रै a शीर्ष गति of.
It थी नामित Car of the दशक ( 2000–2009 ) by the बीबीसी टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम शीर्ष गियर.
The मानक Veyron won Top गियर्स Best car Driven सब साल पुरस्कार in 2005.
on 6 अप्रैल 2013, bugatti नियत the रिकार्ड for the तीव्रतम roadster in the world with the veyron ग्रैंड खेल Vitesse, reaching on average a शीर्ष speed of.
The veyron 's मुख्य पंक्तियां थी hartmut warkuss, और the exterior थी designed by jozef Kabaň of volkswagen, with much of the engineering work होने conducted under the guidance of engineering मुख्य Wolfgang Schreiber.
a क्रमांक of खास विसंगतियाँ have महरूम produced.
in दिसम्बर 2010, bugatti began offering prospective खरीदार the क्षमता to मनपसंद exterior और इंटीरियर्स रंग by using the Veyron 16.4 configurator application on the marque 's official website.
the संस्था of the Eucharist रै महरूम a कुंजी theme in the depictions of the Last Supper in ईसाई आर्ट, as in this 16th-century जुआन de Juanes painting.
`` At the Last Supper, on the night he was गद्दारी, our Savior instituted the Eucharistic sacrifice of उसके देह और रक्त. ''
( catechism of the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर 1323 )
eucharist in the कैथोलिक Church refers to दोनो the जश्न of the Mass, कि is, the eucharist liturgy, और the ब्रैड and wine which after the प्रतिष्ठापना हैं transubstantiated ( बदला in substance ) into the देह and blood of यीशु मसीह, Lord और परमेश्वर, a घोषणा प्रतिपादित by the Council of ट्रेंट साथ an anathema against anyone जो अस्वीकृत इस.
धन्य Sacrament is a devotional term प्रयुक्त in the Roman कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर to refer to the eucharistic प्रजाति ( the देह और Blood of मसीह ).
The following is a सूची of कॉलेजों and विश्वविद्यालयों in the U.S. राज्य of louisiana.
A short story is a brief work of literature, प्रायः लिखा in कथा गद्य.
उभरते इससे पहले मौखिक storytelling परंपराओं in the 17th century, the short story रै grown to encompass a देह of work so diverse as to defy easy characterization.
at इसके सबसे prototypical the छोटी स्टोरी सुविधाएँ a small cast of नामित वर्ण, और focuses on a self-contained incident साथ the intent of evoking a `` सिंगल प्रभाव '' or मनोदशा.
in so doing, छोटी कहानियां मेक उपयोग of प्लाट, अनुनाद, और अन्य डायनेमिक components to a far वृहद उपाधि than is typical of an किस्सा, yet to a दूर lesser degree than a अनोखा.
जबकि the short स्टोरी is largely distinct इससे the अनोखा, लेखक of both generally चित्रण इससे a आम pool of literary तकनीकों.
छोटी कहानियां have no set length.
in terms of शब्द count वहीँ is no आधिकारिक demarcation between an किस्सा, a छोटी story, and a novel.
बल्कि, the रूप 's parameters are दिए by the rhetorical और practical कॉन्टेक्स्ट in जिससे a given story is उत्पादित और माना, so कि कया constitutes a छोटी story may differ between genres, countries, eras, and commentators.
Like the अनोखा, the short story 's predominant आकार reflects the demands of the उपलब्धियाँ markets लिये publication, और the evolution of the रूप seems closely tied to the एवोल्यूशन of the publishing उद्योग और the सबमिशन दिशानिर्देश of its constituent घरों.
the छोटी story रै महरूम considered both an शिक्षुता रूप preceding अधिक lengthy works, and a crafted रूप in its अपना right, एकत्रित साथ in books of समान length, price, और वितरण as novels.
छोटी story लेखक may define उनके works as भाग of the artistic और निजी अभिव्यक्ति of the रूप.
वे may भी attempt to resist categorization by विधा and फिक्स्ड रूप.
क्षेत्रफल कोड in मिशिगन
Area code 810 is the टेलीफोन area code सेवारत पूर्वी मिशिगन.
the raccoon (, procyon lotor ), sometimes spelled racoon, भी ज्ञात as the common raccoon, उत्तर अमरीकी raccoon, उत्तरी raccoon and colloquially as कून, is a medium-sized स्तनधारी देशी to उत्तर अमेरिका.
The raccoon is the largest of the procyonid family, having a देह लंबाई of and a body वज़न of.
इसके grayish coat ज़्यादातर consists of dense underfur जिससे insulates विरूद्ध ठंडा weather.
Two of the raccoon 's सबसे distinctive features हैं इसके extremely dexterous सामने पंजे और its facial mask, जिससे are विषयवस्तु in the mythology of several देशी अमरीकी जनजातियों.
raccoons हैं विख्यात for उनके intelligence, with अध्ययन प्रर्दशित that they हैं समर्थ to याद the solution to कार्य लिये up to three सालो.
the diet of the omnivorous raccoon, which is प्रायः nocturnal, consists of about 40 % invertebrates, 33 % संयंत्र भोजन, and 27 % vertebrates.
The असली habitats of the raccoon are पतझड़ी and मिश्रित forests, लकिन due to उनके adaptability वे have विस्तारित उनके दायरा to mountainous areas, तटीय marshes, और urban क्षेत्रों, जहाँ कुछ homeowners consider them to be पीड़कों.
As a परिणाम of escapes और deliberate introductions in the mid-20th सदी, raccoons हैं अभी भी distributed आरपार the European मेनलैंड, the काकेशस region और Japan.
हालांकि previously विचार to be एकान्त, वहीँ is अभी evidence that raccoons engage in gender-specific सोशल behavior.
सम्बन्धित महिलाओं often share a आम area, जबकि unrelated males सजीव साथ in groups of up to चार पशु to maintain उनके स्थितियाँ विरूद्ध विदेशी males दौरान the mating ऋतु, and अन्य संभावित invaders.
घर range sizes vary anywhere इससे 3 हेक्टेयर ( 7 acres ) लिये महिलाओं in cities to 50 km2 ( 20 sq mi ) लिये males in prairies.
After a gestation काल of परिचय 65 दिनों, दो to पाँच यंग, ज्ञात as `` kits '', हैं born in spring.
The kits are subsequently उठाया by उनके माँ until dispersion in late fall.
हालांकि खिलाते raccoons have महरूम ज्ञात to सजीव over 20 years, उनके औसत जीवन प्रत्याशा in the जंगली is तभी 1.8 to 3.1 years.
in many क्षेत्रों, hunting और vehicular injury are the two सबसे आम causes of मौत.
the 2010 हैती भूकंप थी a अनर्थकारी magnitude 7.0 mw भूकंप, साथ an उपरिकेंद्र निकट the कस्बा of léogâne ( ouest विभाग ), लगभग वेस्ट of port-au-prince, हैती 's capital.
The भूकंप occurred at 16:53 लोकल time ( 21:53 utc ) on मंगलवार, 12 जनवरी 2010.
By 24 जनवरी, at least 52 aftershocks measuring 4.5 or greater had महरूम recorded.
an अनुमानित तीन million people यहूद प्रभावित by the भूकंप.
the उच्चतम विश्वसनीय death count थी अनुमानित at 220,000.
haitian government estimates यहूद उच्चतर.
the government of Haiti अनुमानित कि 250,000 residences और 30,000 वाणिज्यिक इमारतें था collapsed or यहूद severely damaged.
the भूकंप caused प्रमुख damage in port-au-prince, jacmel and other settlements in the प्रदेश.
Many notable landmark इमारतें यहूद significantly damaged or नष्ट, सहित the अध्यक्षीय राजमहल, the नेशनल Assembly भवन, the port-au-prince Cathedral, and the main jail.
Among those killed were archbishop of Port-au-Prince जोसेफ सर्ज miot, and विपक्ष नेता micha gaillard.
the मुख्यालय of the United Nations स्थिरीकरण मिशन in Haiti ( MINUSTAH ), स्तिथ in the पूंजी, collapsed, हत्या many, सहित the मिशन 's Chief, Hédi annabi.
Many countries responded to appeals for humanitarian aid, pledging निधि and dispatching rescue और चिकित्सा टीमों, इंजीनियर्स और support personnel.
संचार systems, एयर, जमीन, और समुद्र हस्तांतरण सुविधाएं, अस्पताल, और विद्युत संजाल था been क्षतिग्रस्त by the भूकंप, जिससे hampered बचाव and सहायता प्रयत्न ; भ्रम over जो was in चार्ज, air ट्रैफ़िक जमघट, और problems साथ prioritisation of flights further complicated जल्दी relief work.
Port-au-Prince 's morgues यहूद overwhelmed साथ tens of हज़ारों of bodies.
These had to be buried in mass क़ब्रों.
as rescues tailed बंद, supplies, चिकित्सा परवाह and स्वच्छता became प्राथमिकताएं.
देरी in सहायता distribution led to एंग्री appeals from aid workers और survivors, और looting और sporadic हिंसा were observed.
On 22 January the संयुक्त राष्ट्र विख्यात that the आपात phase of the राहत आपरेशन थी drawing to a close, और on the following day the haitian सरकारी officially पुकारा बंद the ढूंढें for survivors.
मिस्टर Ed is a fictional talking घोड़ा, originally appearing in छोटी stories by वाल्टर R. ब्रूक्स, और बाद in an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न हालात कॉमेडी उत्पादित by filmways कि first aired in अनुप्रयोग from January 5 to जुलाई 2, 1961, और तब on CBS इससे अक्तूबर 1, 1961 to फ़रवरी 6, 1966.
the stars of the दिखाएँ यहूद Mister Ed, a palomino horse जो could `` talk '', played by gelding Bamboo harvester and voiced by पूर्व Western star Allan लेन ( who went uncredited for the संपूर्ण length of the series ), and his मालिक, an eccentric और enormously klutzy, yet दोस्ताना, वास्तु named wilbur पोस्ट ( Alan यंग ).
much of the program 's humor stemmed इससे the फैक्ट मिस्टर ed होता बोलो only to wilbur, as well as ed 's notoriety as a troublemaker.
Other running jokes centered on Wilbur 's character being a विशाल klutz और inadvertently causing नुक़सान to खुद or others.
According to the show 's producer, आर्थर Lubin, यंग थी chosen as the सीसे अक्षर because he `` बस लगा like the sort of guy a घोड़ा would बात to ''.
Lubin, a dost of mae West, scored a तख्तापलट by persuading the screen icon to अतिथि star in एक episode.
In the संयुक्त राज्य, reruns aired on उपनाम at नाइट from कूच 3, 1986, to फ़रवरी 1, 1993.
सिस्टर station TV जमीन भी reran the दिखाएँ from 1996–98 and again from 2003-06.
the series is फिलहाल ब्रॉडकास्ट every morning on This TV, along साथ राजमार्ग पैट्रोल, और the पैटी ड्यूक Show.
it is also currently broadcast on hallmark Movie Channel.
as of January 1, 2011, the पहला two seasons of the show are उपलब्धियाँ on hulu.
The rapture is a पद in ईसाई eschatology जिससे refers to the `` being caught up '' discussed in 1 thessalonians 4:17, when the `` मुर्दे in मसीह '' और `` we जो are जिंदा और remain '' will be `` caught up in the clouds '' to meet `` the रब in the एयर ''.
The पद `` rapture '' is used in at तनिक दो होश.
In the pre-tribulation दृश्य, a group of people होगा be बाएँ behind on धरती बाद another समूह वस्तुतः पत्ते `` to मिलें the रब in the एयर. ''
इस is अभी the सबसे common use of the term, विशेषकर among fundamentalist Christians और in the संयुक्त States.
the other, older use of the पद `` rapture '' is बस as a synonym लिये the फाइनल क़यामत generally, without a विश्वास that a group of लोगों is बाएँ पीछे on धरती for an विस्तारित tribulation काल बाद the कार्यक्रम of 1 thessalonians 4:17.
इस भेद is important as some types of Christianity never refer to `` the rapture '' in धार्मिक शिक्षा, लकिन might उपयोग the older और more general sense of the शब्द `` rapture '' in referring to what happens दौरान the फाइनल resurrection.
There हैं many views among ईसाइयों regarding the समय of मसीह 's return ( सहित whether it होगा occur in एक event or two ), और various दृश्य regarding the destination of the aerial महफ़िल वर्णित in 1 Thessalonians 4.
Denominations such as रोमन catholics, Orthodox ईसाइयों, लूथरन Christians, और Reformed ईसाइयों believe in a rapture तभी in the भाव of a general final क़यामत, when मसीह returns a single time.
वे do not believe that a समूह of people is left behind on earth लिये an विस्तारित tribulation काल after the events of 1 thessalonians 4:17.
pre-tribulation rapture धर्मशास्त्र थी विकसित in the 1830s by जॉन Nelson Darby और the plymouth Brethren, और popularized in the संयुक्त राज्य in the early 20th सदी by the चौड़ी परिसंचरण of the scofield सन्दर्भ बाइबल.
Kris Nathan Humphries ( born फ़रवरी 6, 1985 ) is an American पेशेवर basketball player with the ब्रुकलीन Nets.
The philistine शहरों of गाजा, ashdod, ashkelon, Ekron, and gath
The Philistines (,,, or ;, Plištim ), pleshet or peleset, यहूद a लोगों जो as part of the समुद्र peoples appeared in the दक्षिणी coastal क्षेत्रफल of canaan at the शुरूआत of the Iron आयु ( circa 1175 bc ), most संभवतः from the ईजियन region.
According to the Bible, वे शासित the five city-states ( the `` Philistine pentapolis '' ) of Gaza, ashkelon, Ashdod, ekron और gath, इससे Wadi गाजा in the दक्षिण to the Yarqon नदी in the north, लकिन साथ no फिक्स्ड border to the east.
The Bible paints उन्हें as the किंगडम of Israel 's most खतरनाक enemy.
Originating somewhere in the ईजियन, उनके population थी around 25,000 in the 12th सदी BC, उठती to a शिखर of 30,000 in the 11th सदी bc, of जिससे the Aegean तत्व थी नहीं अधिक than half the कुल, और perhaps much less.
nothing is ज्ञात for निश्चित परिचय the original भाषा or भाषाएं of the philistines, however वे यहूद नहीं भाग of the Semitic Canaanite population.
There is some सीमित प्रमाण in पक्ष of the assumption that the philistines यहूद indo-european-speakers either इससे यूनानियों and/or luwian अध्यक्षों इससे the coast of Asia नाबालिग.
Philistine-related शब्द मिला in the बाइबल हैं नहीं Semitic, and can in some cases, with reservations, be traced वापस to proto-indo-european जड़ें.
by the शुरूआत of the 1st Millennium bce they था अपनाया the सामान्य Canaanite भाषा of the region.
the हथियारबंद Services वोकेशनल Aptitude बैटरी ( asvab ) is a multiple choice परीक्षण, administered by the United States Military प्रवेश प्रसंस्करण कमांड, प्रयुक्त to determine qualification for enlistment in the United राज्य हथियारबंद forces.
it is often offered to अमरीकी ऊँची स्कूल students when वे are in the 10th, 11th and 12th grade, हालांकि anyone योग्य for enlistment may take it.
Although the test is administered by the military, it is not ( and never रै महरूम ) a आवश्यकता कि a test-taker साथ a qualifying स्कोर enlist in the हथियारबंद forces.
In वित्तीय हिसाब, a संतुलन चादर or statement of financial position is a सारांश of the financial balances of a sole बंदोबस्त, a कारोबार साझेदारी, a निगम or अन्य business organization, ऐसे as an LLC or an LLP.
एसेट, liabilities और स्वामित्व इक्विटी हैं listed as of a विशिष्ट date, such as the end of इसके financial साल.
A संतुलन sheet is often described as a `` snapshot of a company 's वित्तीय कंडीशन ''.
of the चार मौलिक वित्तीय statements, the संतुलन sheet is the only बयान जिससे applies to a सिंगल पाइंट in समय of a business ' पंचांग year.
a मानक कम्पनी balance sheet रै three parts : एसेट, liabilities and स्वामित्व इक्विटी.
the प्रमुख categories of assets हैं प्रायः listed पहला, और typically in अनुक्रम of चलनिधि.
Assets are followed by the liabilities.
the अंतर between the assets और the देनदारी is known as equity or the जाल assets or the जाल worth or पूंजी of the कम्पनी और according to the हिसाब equation, net worth जरूर बराबर assets ऋण देनदारी.
another रास्ता to dekh at the वही equation is कि एसेट equals देनदारी प्लस मालिक 's इक्विटी.
looking at the समीकरण in इस way shows how एसेट were financed : either by उधार money ( देयता ) or by using the owner 's धन ( मालिक 's इक्विटी ).
संतुलन चादरें are usually presented साथ एसेट in एक खण्ड और देनदारी और जाल worth in the अन्य खण्ड साथ the दो sections `` balancing. ''
A कारोबार operating entirely in cash can measure इसके profits by withdrawing the संपूर्ण bank balance at the समाप्त of the period, प्लस कोई नकदी in हाथ.
However, अनेक व्यवसायों हैं नहीं सशुल्क तत्काल ; they निर्माण up inventories of goods और वे acquire buildings and equipment.
in अन्य शब्द : व्यवसायों have एसेट and so they can not, भी if they want to, तत्काल turn ये into cash at the समाप्त of प्रत्येक काल.
प्रायः, ये व्यवसायों owe धन to आपूर्तिकर्ता and to कर अधिकारियों, and the proprietors do नहीं withdraw सब उनके original पूंजी and profits at the समाप्त of प्रत्येक काल.
In other शब्द businesses भी have liabilities.
.17 hornady मैग्नम rimfire, commonly known as the.17 HMR, is a rimfire राइफल कार्ट्रिज विकसित by the ammunition कम्पनी hornady in 2002.
it descended from the.22 मैग्नम by necking bas the.22 मैग्नम मामला to take a.17 कैलिबर ( 4.5 mm ) bullet, और it is more costly to shoot than परंपरागत.22 caliber rimfire cartridges.
commonly loaded with a 17 अनाज ( 1.1 g ) गोली, it can deliver muzzle गतियाँ in excess of 2550 ft/s ( 775 m/s ).
The Schaumburg Flyers were a पेशेवर बेसबॉल team based in Schaumburg, Illinois, in the संयुक्त राज्य.
the flyers were to be a चार्टर member of the North American League, जिससे is not संबद्ध with प्रमुख League Baseball, however, the टोली folded in कूच 2011, पहले they began खेल in the nal.
From the 1999 season to the 2010 ऋतु, the flyers निभाई their home games at Alexian फ़ील्ड, निकट the एल्गिन O'Hare Expressway.
The team formerly निभाई in थंडर Bay, ओंटारियो, जहाँ वे were known as the Thunder खाड़ी whiskey jacks.
the टोली थी originally a सदस्य of the Northern लीग इससे 1993 to 2010.
On जुलाई 27, 2009, the flyers निभाई मेजबान to Battle of the लिंगों ii, जिससे pitted the Flyers विरूद्ध the National Pro fastpitch Softball champions, the शिकागो डाकुओं.
Played by आधिकारिक सॉफ्टबॉल rules, the game was seen by an overflow रिकार्ड crowd of 8,918, और थी जीती by the Bandits 4-2.
in 1999, the flyers नियुक्त उनके first मैनेजर, Ron Kittle.
kittle is best ज्ञात for his playing दिनों with the Chicago White sox, और पूर्व शिकागो शावक और White sox खिलाड़ी ग्रेग Hibbard थी the pitching कोच.
During the जल्दी सालो of the मताधिकार, Kittle did a series of TV commercials to प्रचार the team, using the gimmick `` ma kittle. '' जहाँ he निभाई दोनो himself और उसके `` ma. ''
the ads were कामयाब at sparking some आरंभिक interest in the टोली as the Flyers hoped to चोरी away fans इससे the nearby केन काउंटी Cougars.
The ad mimicked the highly successful converse विज्ञापन जहाँ Larry जॉनसन starred as दोनो himself and `` gramama. ''
at the end of the 2001 ऋतु, however, kittle resigned इससे his managerial स्थिति, and जिम boynewicz was hired to बदलें उसे.
in 2004, the flyers made it to the उत्तरी लीग चैंपियनशिप Series विरूद्ध the St. पॉल Saints.
Despite अग्रणी the five-game series 2-1, Schaumburg eventually lost the श्रेणी.
In Game 5, flyers राहत पिचर lyle prempas अनुमत a game winning grand स्लैम by St. Paul infielder मार्क Mirizzi in the ninth inning.
The Flyers appeared in the उत्तरी लीग playoffs चार टाइम्स ( 1999, 2003, 2004, 2006 ) but never जीती the championship.
कुछ प्रसिद्ध खिलाड़ी जो played लिये the flyers यहूद former Oakland A 's outfielder ozzie canseco और पूर्व शिकागो Cubs outfielder Dwight Smith.
Rachel हन्ना वाइज़ ( / वाइस / ; born 7 March 1970 ) is an अंग्रेज़ी फिल्मी and थिएटर actress and former फ़ैशन मॉडल.
Weisz began उसके एक्टिंग करियर at ट्रिनिटी Hall, Cambridge in the जल्दी 1990s, तब started working in television, appearing in इंस्पेक्टर मोर्स, the अंग्रेजों mini-series स्कारलेट और Black, और the टेलीविज़न फिल्मी अधिवक्ताओं ii.
वो made उसके फिल्मी début in the film मौत Machine ( 1994 ), लकिन उसके भेदन भूमिका आए in the film Chain प्रतिक्रिया ( 1996 ), अग्रणी to a high-profile भूमिका as एवलिन Carnahan-O'Connell in the films The Mummy ( 1999 ) and the मम्मी Returns ( 2001 ).
अन्य notable films featuring Weisz हैं दुश्मन at the गेट्स, About a लड़के, constantine, the Fountain and The निरंतर माली, for which वो प्राप्त an Academy पुरस्कार, a Golden Globe और a स्क्रीन Actors ' गिल्ड पुरस्कार लिये her supporting role as Tessa quayle.
She रै महरूम labelled an `` अंग्रेज़ी rose '' चूंकि उसके नाबालिग role in चोरी Beauty ( 1996 ).
वाइज़ भी works in थिएटर.
उसके stage breakthrough was the 1994 पुनरुद्धार of noël कायर 's play डिज़ाइन for जीना, जिससे अर्जित उसके the लंदन आलोचकों वृत्त पुरस्कार लिये the सबसे होनहार newcomer.
वाइज़ 's performances भी include the 1999 Donmar Warehouse production of Tennessee Williams ' Suddenly, पिछला गर्मियाँ, और their 2009 पुनरुद्धार of A स्ट्रीटकार नामित ख्वाहिश.
Her portrayal of blanche DuBois in the latter खेल अर्जित उसके the आलोचकों ' Circle थिएटर पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Actress.
वो रै recently निभाई Evanora in oz the Great और शक्तिशाली.
The अमरीकी सिविल War ( acw ), also ज्ञात as the युद्ध between the States or बस the Civil War ( देखिए naming ), was a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern स्लेव राज्य कि घोषित their secession and formed the confederate राज्य of अमेरिका ( the `` confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
the war था its उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of गुलामी, विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन of slavery into the पश्चिमी territories.
विदेशी शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene.
बाद चार सालो of bloody combat that बाएँ over 600,000 सैनिको dead and नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण process of restoring नेशनल एकता और guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential election, republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into संयुक्त राज्य ' territories.
lincoln won, लकिन before his inauguration on कूच 4, 1861, seven cotton-based स्लेव राज्य formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic अध्यक्ष जेम्स Buchanan और the आवक Republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural पता declared उसके administration होता not initiate सिविल war.
Eight remaining slave राज्य continued to अस्वीकृत काल्स for secession.
Confederate शक्तियां जब्त numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the confederacy.
A Peace सम्मेलन विफल to ढूँढें a compromise, और दोनो sides prepared लिये युद्ध.
The confederates assumed that European countries यहूद so निर्भर on `` King Cotton `` that वे होता intervene ; none did और none recognized the new confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, जब confederate शक्तियां fired upon Fort sumter, a कुंजी फोर्ट held by संघ सैनिकों in दक्षिण Carolina.
lincoln पुकारा for प्रत्येक state to provide troops to retake the fort ; नतीजतन, चार more स्लेव states joined the confederacy, bringing their कुल to ग्यारह.
the Union soon नियंत्रित the border states and स्थापित a naval blockade कि अबोध the दक्षिणी economy.
The Eastern थिएटर थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
the autumn 1862 Confederate अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a Union राज्य ) ended with Confederate retreat at the बैटल of antietam, dissuading British हस्तक्षेप.
Lincoln issued the emancipation उदघोषणा, which made समाप्ति slavery a युद्ध लक्ष्य.
to the वेस्ट, by गर्मियाँ 1862 the Union नष्ट the Confederate river navy, तब much of उनके पश्चिमी सेना, और the Union at Vicksburg विभाजित the Confederacy in दो at the मिसिसिपी River.
in 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the बैटल of gettysburg.
Western सफलताओं led to Ulysses S. ग्रान्ट command of सब संघ सेना in 1864.
in the पश्चिमी Theater, विलियम T. शरमन drove ईस्ट to capture अटलांटा और marched to the sea, destroying confederate अवसंरचना along the रास्ता.
the संघ marshaled the resources और जनशक्ति to attack the confederacy इससे all दिशानिर्देश, और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the overland Campaign towards रिचमंड, the Confederate पूंजी.
the defending confederate army विफल, अग्रणी to Lee 's surrender to ग्रान्ट at Appomattox Court हाउस on अप्रैल 9, 1865.
the अमरीकी सिविल War थी एक of the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक युद्धों.
railroads, the telegraph, steamships, और mass-produced हथियार यहूद employed extensively.
the mobilization of civilian factories, खानों, shipyards, banks, परिवहन and खाना आपूर्तियाँ सब foreshadowed संसार युद्ध i.
It remains the deadliest war in अमरीकी इतिहास, resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 सैनिको and an undetermined number of civilian हताहत.
Historian जॉन huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा, and 30 प्रतिशत of all दक्षिणी श्वेत males aged 18–40.
आलू ब्रैड is a रूप of ब्रैड in which आलू replaces a portion of the नियमित गेहूं आटा.
it is पकाया in a किस्में of methods, सहित by बेकिंग it on a hot तवे or pan, or in an oven.
It may be leavened or unleavened, और may have a किस्में of other संघटक baked into it.
the ratio of potato to wheat flour varies significantly from recipe to रेसिपी, with कुछ recipes having a बहुमत of आलू, और अन्य having a बहुमत of गेहूं आटा.
कुछ recipes call लिये mashed potatoes, साथ others calling for निर्जलित potato flakes.
it is available as a वाणिज्यिक product in अनेक countries, साथ समान विसंगतियाँ in संघटक, कुकिंग विधि, और अन्य variables.
The प्रशांत समय मण्डल observes मानक time by subtracting आठ घंटों इससे Coordinated सार्वभौमिक समय ( ).
The क्लॉक समय in इस मण्डल is आधारित on the औसत solar time of the 120th मध्याह्न west of the ग्रीनविच वेधशाला.
दौरान daylight छायांकन time, इसके समय ऑफसेट is.
In the United राज्य और कनाडा, this समय zone is generically called प्रशांत Time ( pt ).
Specifically, it is प्रशांत Standard Time ( PST ) when observing standard समय ( शीत ), and Pacific daylight समय ( पीडीटी ) जब observing daylight saving समय ( summer ).
सबसे of कनाडा uses daylight saving समय.
In मैक्सिको the UTC−8 समय zone is ज्ञात as the Northwest Zone, जिससे is synchronized साथ the u.S. पीडीटी daylight छायांकन अनुसूची.
the largest city in the Pacific समय मण्डल is लॉस एंजिल्स in कैलिफ़ोर्निया इससे यूएसए ; the नगर 's महानगर क्षेत्रफल is the largest in the मण्डल.
The मण्डल is एक घंटा ahead of the अलास्का समय मण्डल, एक घंटा behind the पहाड़ समय मण्डल और three घंटों पीछे the पूर्वी Time मण्डल.
स्टीरियो 8, commonly ज्ञात as the eight-track कार्ट्रिज, eight-track टेप, or simply eight-track, is a magnetic tape ध्वनि recording प्रौद्योगिकी.
it was लोकप्रिय in the संयुक्त राज्य from the mid-1960s through to the early 1980s, लकिन थी अपेक्षाकृत अनजान in many यूरोपीय countries.
it थी, however, बहुत लोकप्रिय in the संयुक्त Kingdom during इस काल.
Stereo 8 was created in 1964 by a consortium led by विधेयक lear of Lear Jet निगम, साथ साथ ampex, घाट मोटर कम्पनी, General मोटर्स, Motorola, and आरसीए विक्टर Records ( आरसीए ).
it थी a further विकास of the similar stereo-pak four-track कार्ट्रिज निर्मित by अर्ल `` Madman '' Muntz.
a later quadraphonic संस्करण of the स्वरूप थी घोषित by RCA in April 1970 and first known as Quad-8, तब later बदला to बस q8.
Ramesses ii ( 1303 BC – जुलाई or अगस्त 1213 BC ; Egyptian :, alternatively transcribed as Rameses और Ramses or ), referred to as रामेसेस the Great, थी the third Egyptian pharaoh ( reigned 1279 bc – 1213 bc ) of the उन्नीसवीं dynasty.
he is often regarded as the महानतम, सबसे celebrated, और सबसे powerful pharaoh of the मिश्र Empire.
उसके successors और बाद उन्होंने called उसे the `` Great Ancestor. ''
रामेसेस II led अनेक सैन्य रिझाने into the levant, re-asserting मिश्र control over Canaan.
He भी led expeditions to the south, into नुबिया, commemorated in inscriptions at beit el-wali और Gerf Hussein.
At age चौदह, Ramesses थी नियुक्त प्रिंस रीजेंट by his father सेती i.
he is believed to have taken the सिंहासन in his लेट किशोर और is known to have शासित मिश्र इससे 1279 bc to 1213 bc for 66 सालो and 2 महीने, according to both manetho और मिश्र 's समकालीन ऐतिहासिक records.
He was एकबार कहा to have lived to be 99 सालो old, लकिन it is more संभावित कि he died in उसके 90th or 91st साल.
If he became Pharaoh in 1279 BC as सबसे egyptologists today believe, he होता have assumed the सिंहासन on may 31, 1279 bc, आधारित on उसके ज्ञात accession date of III Shemu दिन 27.
Ramesses ii celebrated an unprecedented 14 sed त्यौहार ( the पहला आयोजित बाद तीस सालो of a pharaoh 's शासनकाल, और तब प्रत्येक तीन सालो ) during उसके reign—more than any अन्य pharaoh.
on उसके death, he थी buried in a मकबरा in the घाटी of the किंग्स ; उसके body थी later स्थानांतरित to a royal संचय जहाँ it थी discovered in 1881, और is now on display in the कायरो संग्रहालय.
the early भाग of उसके शासनकाल थी focused on भवन cities, मंदिरों and स्मारक.
he established the city of pi-ramesses in the nile डेल्टा as his new पूंजी and main आधार for his अभियान in Syria.
This नगर was built on the remains of the city of avaris, the पूंजी of the Hyksos जब वे took over, और थी the location of the प्रमुख टेम्पल of नियत.
he is also ज्ञात as ozymandias in the यूनानी sources, इससे a लिप्यन्तरण into यूनानी of a भाग of रामेसेस 's throne नाम,, `` Ra 's mighty सच्चाई, chosen of ra ''.
The टेक्सास रेंजरों are a professional बेसबॉल team स्तिथ in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex, आधारित in Arlington, Texas.
The Rangers मताधिकार is फिलहाल a सदस्य of the पश्चिमी Division of प्रमुख लीग Baseball 's अमरीकी लीग.
चूंकि, the Rangers have played in रेंजरों Ballpark in Arlington in आर्लिंगटन, Texas.
The टोली 's name is उधार इससे the प्रसिद्ध विधि enforcement agency of the वही नाम.
The franchise was स्थापित in 1961 by the name of the वॉशिंगटन सीनेटरों, an विस्तार टोली awarded to Washington, d.C., बाद the नगर 's first ballclub, the असली वॉशिंगटन Senators, moved to Minnesota और became the जुड़वा.
After the ऋतु, the new सीनेटरों स्थानांतरित to आर्लिंगटन, टेक्सास, और debuted as the रेंजरों the following वसन्त.
the टेक्सास Rangers बेसबॉल Club रै बना छह appearances in the एमएलबी postseason, सब following प्रभाग championships, in 1996, 1998, 1999, 2010, 2011 and 2012.
in 2010, the Rangers advanced पास्ट the प्रभाग Series लिये the पहला time, defeating the tampa Bay किरणें.
टेक्सास तब brought home उनके पहला American League Pennant बाद beating the New York Yankees in छह खेल.
in the 2010 World श्रेणी, the मताधिकार 's पहला, the Rangers गिरी to the San फ्रांसिस्को दिग्गज in five games.
Their लोन विजय बना उन्हें the पहला टेक्सास team to win a World Series game, the Houston एस्टर्स having महरूम swept in उनके 2005 संसार श्रेणी appearance.
वे दोहराया as अमरीकी लीग champions the following year, then खोया the 2011 संसार श्रेणी to the st. लुई कार्डिनल्स in सात खेल.
gaius जूलियस Caesar (, जुलाई 100 bc – 15 March 44 bc ) थी a रोमन सामान्य, statesman, कौंसुल and notable लेखक of Latin गद्य.
He निभाई a नाजुक भूमिका in the कार्यक्रम कि led to the निधन of the रोमन Republic और the rise of the रोमन साम्राज्य.
In 60 BC, सीज़र, Crassus और Pompey formed a राजनैतिक गठबंधन that थी to dominate रोमन राजनीती for अनेक सालो.
Their attempts to amass power through populist tactics यहूद opposed by the conservative elite भीतर the रोमन Senate, among उन्हें केटो the Younger साथ the बारंबार support of सिसरो.
Caesar 's conquest of Gaul, समाप्त by 51 BC, विस्तारित रोम 's territory to the अंग्रेज़ी Channel and the राइन.
सीज़र became the पहला रोमन general to क्रॉस both जब he built a bridge आरपार the राइन और conducted the first invasion of ब्रिटेन.
ये achievements granted उसे बेमेल सैन्य power और threatened to eclipse the standing of pompey, who था realigned himself with the सीनेट after the मौत of crassus in 53 bc.
साथ the Gallic युद्धों concluded, the Senate ordered सीज़र to lay down उसके सैन्य कमांड and वापसी to रोम.
सीज़र refused, और चिह्नित उसके defiance in 49 BC by क्रासिंग the rubicon साथ a लीजन, leaving his province and illegally प्रवेश रोमन territory अंतर्गत arms.
सिविल युद्ध resulted, इससे which he उभरा as the unrivaled नेता of Rome.
बाद assuming कंट्रोल of सरकारी, सीज़र began a program of सोशल और governmental reforms, सहित the सृष्टि of the Julian पंचांग.
He centralised the अफसरशाही of the Republic और was आखिरकार proclaimed `` तानाशाह in perpetuity ''.
लकिन the underlying राजनैतिक विरोध had not महरूम resolved, और on the ides of कूच ( 15 कूच ) 44 bc, सीज़र थी assassinated by a group of सीनेटरों led by मार्कस junius ब्रूटस.
a नई श्रेणी of civil युद्धों broke आउट, and the संवैधानिक government of the Republic was never लौटी.
सीज़र 's adopted वारिस octavian, later ज्ञात as Augustus, रोज़ to एकमात्र power, and the era of the Roman साम्राज्य began.
much of सीज़र 's जीवन is known इससे उसके own accounts of उसके सैन्य campaigns, and from अन्य समकालीन sources, मुख्यतः the अक्षर और speeches of सिसरो और the historical कृतियाँ of Sallust.
the later biographies of सीज़र by Suetonius और Plutarch are also प्रमुख स्त्रोत.
सीज़र is deemed to be one of the महानतम military कमांडरों of इतिहास.
भाषाई मैप of Nigeria, कैमरून, और बेनिन.
Sign in अंग्रेज़ी, बाहर the विश्वविद्यालयों of लागोस
There हैं hundreds of भाषाएं बोला in सीरियल.
The प्रमुख भाषाएं हैं योरूबा, हौसा, इग्बो, ईदो, fulfulde, कनूरी, और Ibibio.
The आधिकारिक भाषा of सीरियल, English, the former colonial भाषा, थी chosen to facilitate the सांस्कृतिक and भाषाई unity of the देश.
अंग्रेज़ी, however, remains an विशेष बचाना of the देश 's urban elite, and is not widely spoken in rural areas, जिससे comprise तीन quarters of the देशों population.
Nigeria 's भाषाई diversity is a microcosm of अफ़्रीकी as a whole, encompassing तीन प्रमुख अफ़्रीकी languages families : afroasiatic, Nilo-Saharan, और Niger–Congo.
Nigeria भी रै several as-yet unclassified languages, ऐसे as Cen tuum, जिससे may represent a relic of an भी greater diversity prior to the स्प्रेड of the current भाषा परिवारों.
daucus carota ( common names include जंगली गाजर, ( uk ) बर्ड 's घोंसला, bishop 's फीता, और महारानी Anne 's फीता ( North अमेरिका ) ) is a flowering plant in the family apiaceae, native to शीतोष्ण regions of Europe, southwest Asia and naturalised to North America और ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
Domesticated गाजर are cultivars of a subspecies, daucus carota subsp. sativus.
in the संयुक्त राज्य, the title of federal न्यायधीश usually means a न्यायधीश नियुक्त by the अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य और confirmed by the United States Senate pursuant to the नियुक्ति clause in आलेख ii of the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान.
in जोड to the Supreme अदालत of the United राज्य, whose existence और कुछ पहलुओं of जिनकी क्षेत्राधिकार are beyond the संवैधानिक power of कॉंग्रेस to alter, अधिनियमों of Congress have established 13 न्यायालयों of appeals ( भी पुकारा `` सर्किट courts '' ) with appellate क्षेत्राधिकार over different regions of the United राज्य, और 94 संयुक्त राज्य ज़िला न्यायालयों.
Every न्यायधीश नियुक्त to such a अदालत may be categorized as a संघीय न्यायधीश ; such positions शामिल the मुख्य इंसाफ and संबद्ध Justices of the Supreme अदालत, सर्किट न्यायाधीशों of the न्यायालयों of appeals, and ज़िला judges of the United States ज़िला न्यायालयों.
All of ये न्यायाधीशों described thus दूर हैं referred to sometimes as `` आलेख III न्यायाधीशों '' क्युकी वे कसरत the न्यायिक शक्ति vested in the judicial शाखा of the federal government by आलेख III of the u.S. संविधान.
In जोड, न्यायाधीशों of the Court of International Trade कसरत judicial शक्ति pursuant to आलेख iii.
Other न्यायाधीशों serving in the संघीय न्यायालयों, सहित मजिस्ट्रेट न्यायाधीशों और bankruptcy न्यायाधीशों, हैं भी sometimes referred to as `` संघीय न्यायाधीशों '' ; however, वे हैं neither appointed by the अध्यक्ष nor confirmed by the Senate, और उनके शक्ति गर्भाशयी from Article I बजाय.
See Article I और आलेख iii अधिकरणों.
नेल Kim Furtado ( born दिसम्बर 2, 1978 ) is a Canadian सिंगर, songwriter और actress.
She रै sold 20 million एल्बम worldwide और अधिक 20 लाख singles, bringing उसके total बिक्री to over 40 million records around the संसार.
फ़र्टाडो first gained कीर्ति साथ उसके डेब्यू album, Whoa, नेल !
, जिससे spawned दो कामयाब singles, `` i 'm जैसे a Bird `` and `` फेरे बंद the लाइट ``. ``
I 'm Like a Bird '' won a 2001 juno पुरस्कार लिये सिंगल of the Year और a 2002 Grammy पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन मादा पॉप गायन प्रदर्शन.
in 2003, Furtado released Folklore, जिससे उत्पादित तीन अंतरराष्ट्रीय singles— `` Powerless ( कह कया तुम Want ) ``, `` Try `` और `` força ``.
तीन सालो later वो released Loose, a विश्वव्यापी commercial success.
The एल्बम शाखित चार number-one हिट्स : `` promiscuous ``, `` maneater ``, `` Say It सही `` और `` सब शुभ Things ( Come to an End ) ``.
After a three-year ब्रेक, she released उसके पहला full-length स्पेनी album, mi Plan, and फ़र्टाडो प्राप्त a लैटिन Grammy for बेहतरीन Female Pop Vocal एल्बम.
in 2012, फ़र्टाडो 's fourth English-language स्टुडियो एल्बम, the स्पिरिट अविनाशी was released.
Furtado 's कार्य रै earned उसके numerous awards और accolades, सहित 2 Grammy पुरस्कार, 10 Juno Awards, 3 MuchMusic Video Awards and a स्टार on Canada 's Walk of कीर्ति.
Creatures of the रात्रि is the दसवाँ स्टुडियो album by चुंबन.
it is the बैंड 's पिछला एल्बम लिये कासाब्लांका रिकॉर्ड, the तभी लेबल the समूह had कभी recorded लिये at कि point.
The एल्बम थी समर्पित to the memory of Casablanca संस्थापक और जल्दी चुंबन समर्थक Neil bogart, who था died of कर्कट during the recording सत्र.
it is also the बैंड 's पिछला एल्बम अंकित साथ इक्का frehley credited as an आधिकारिक member ( जबतक 1998 's psycho Circus ), and इसके पहला एल्बम with Vinnie विंसेंट as the initially uncredited सीसे guitarist ( विंसेंट would later be credited, लकिन नहीं प्रदर्शित pictorially on the कवर, of 1985 's reissue of the एल्बम ).
टच is a crucial अर्थात् of receiving information.
इस photo shows tactile markings identifying stairs लिये visually impaired people.
the somatosensory प्रणाली is a विविध sensory प्रणाली comprising the receptors और प्रसंस्करण केंद्रों to उपज the संवेदी modalities such as touch, temperature, proprioception ( body स्थिति ), and nociception ( पीड़ा ).
The संवेदी receptors cover the स्किन and epithelia, skeletal मांसपेशियां, हड्डियों और joints, आतंरिक organs, और the cardiovascular प्रणाली.
जबकि टच is considered एक of the पाँच traditional होश, the impression of टच is formed from several modalities.
In medicine, the colloquial पद `` टच '' is प्रायः replaced साथ `` दैहिक senses '' to better प्रतिबिंबित the variety of mechanisms शामिल.
Somatic senses हैं sometimes referred to as somesthetic होश, साथ the understanding कि somesthesis शामिल touch, proprioception और ( depending on usage ) also haptic बोध.
The प्रणाली reacts to diverse stimuli using अलग receptors : thermoreceptors, nociceptors, mechanoreceptors और chemoreceptors.
हस्तांतरण of सूचना इससे the receptors गुजरता via sensory nerves through tracts in the spinal cord and into the brain.
Processing primarily occurs in the primary somatosensory क्षेत्रफल in the parietal पालि of the cerebral cortex.
the cortical homunculus थी devised by वाइल्डर Penfield.
At इसके सरलतम, the प्रणाली works जब कार्यकलाप in a संवेदी न्यूरॉन is triggered by a specific stimulus ऐसे as ऊष्मा ; इस सिग्नल आखिरकार passes to an क्षेत्रफल in the brain uniquely attributed to that क्षेत्रफल on the body—this allows the processed stimulus to be felt at the correct location.
The point-to-point mapping of the देह surfaces in the brain is called a homunculus and is essential in the सृष्टि of a देह चित्र.
This brain-surface ( `` cortical '' ) map is not अपरिवर्तनीय, however.
नाटकीय शिफ्ट can occur in response to स्ट्रोक or injury.
magnolia is a विशाल genus of परिचय 210 flowering plant प्रजाति in the subfamily magnolioideae of the परिवार magnoliaceae.
it is नामित बाद फ्रेंच botanist पियरे magnol.
Magnolia is an प्राचीन genus.
Appearing before मधुमक्खियों did, the पुष्प evolved to प्रोत्साहित परागण by beetles.
To avoid damage इससे pollinating भृंग, the carpels of magnolia flowers are अत्यधिक मुश्किल.
fossilised नमूनों of Magnolia acuminata have महरूम found डेटिंग to 20 million सालो ago, और of पौधे identifiably belonging to the Magnoliaceae डेटिंग to 95 million सालो ago.
Another aspect of magnolias that is considered to represent an ancestral state is कि the पुष्प कली is enclosed in a bract बल्कि than in sepals ; the perianth parts are undifferentiated and पुकारा tepals बल्कि than distinct sepals and पंखुड़ियों.
Magnolia साझा the tepal characteristic साथ अनेक other flowering पौधे near the आधार of the flowering plant lineage ऐसे as amborella और nymphaea ( as खूब as साथ अनेक more recently derived plants such as लिलि ).
The प्राकृतिक range of Magnolia प्रजाति is a disjunct वितरण, साथ a main centre in east और southeast एशिया और a secondary केन्द्र in पूर्वी उत्तर America, सेंट्रल अमेरिका, the वेस्ट इंडीज, and कुछ species in दक्षिण America.
thumb
`` श्वेत क्रिसमस '' is an Irving Berlin song reminiscing about an old-fashioned क्रिसमस सेटिंग.
According to the Guinness किताब of संसार Records, the संस्करण सुंग by Bing crosby is the best-selling single of सब समय, with estimated sales in excess of 50 लाख नक़ल विश्वव्यापी.
Accounts vary as to when और जहाँ Berlin लिखा the song.
एक स्टोरी is कि he लिखा it in 1940, in warm la quinta, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, while रहकर at the La quinta होटल, a frequent Hollywood रिट्रीट भी favored by writer-producer फ़्रैंक Capra, although the एरिज़ोना biltmore भी दावा the song थी लिखा there.
he often ठहरे up सब रात्रि writing — he बताई उसके सचिव, `` Grab अपना pen और लो bas इस सोंग.
I just लिखा the बेहतरीन song I 've कभी written — heck, i बस wrote the बेहतरीन सोंग कि anybody 's कभी लिखा ! ''
cross-country स्कीइंग ( or xc स्कीइंग ) is a रूप of स्की touring in जिससे participants propel themselves across snow-covered मैदान using skis and डंडे.
the कार्यकलाप is लोकप्रिय in अनेक स्थान with large snowfields, primarily उत्तरी यूरोपीय, कनाडा, और अलास्का.
cross-country स्कीइंग is भाग of the nordic स्कीइंग खेल परिवार, which शामिल स्की कूद, nordic संयुक्त ( cross-country skiing और स्की कूद ), biathlon ( skiing और rifle marksmanship ) and ski-orienteering ( which includes map navigation साथ हिम trails and tracks ).
cross-country स्कीइंग is the आधुनिक style of skiing that most resembles prehistoric skiing, particularly when done in the backcountry.
it is भी related to Telemark स्कीइंग.
a use tax in संयुक्त राज्य is complementary to बिक्री कर जिससे अर्थात्, if you ख़रीदे a taxable product/services बगैर paying कोई बिक्री कर to vendor, you owe use कर.
तुम जरूर स्वः assess use tax and pay it सीधे to the state जहाँ the products यहूद consumed or services यहूद rendered.
Use कर typically is a कर on खपत लकिन if तुम buy an item ( बगैर paying बिक्री tax ) and store it in your गोदाम initially, उपयोग tax applies to कि स्थान जहाँ goods were stored.
Later on जब the final खपत takes place at some अन्य स्थान, you हैं जरूरी to अदा the अवकल of कर रेट to the jurisdiction of परम प्लेस of consumption.
इस वाकई अर्थात् कि तुम do n't have to pay दोनो Sales कर as well as उपयोग Tax on एक transaction.
it is only एक or the अन्य कि तुम हैं जरूरी to अदा on खरीदें of taxable products/services.
if विक्रेता करता n't चार्ज कोई बिक्री tax on इसके चालान then it is the दायित्व of the buyer to स्वः assess उपयोग tax और अदा it to the उचित jurisdication.
उपयोग कर is generally चार्ज at the same कर rate of बिक्री कर but in कुछ states the tax rate is अलग.
उपयोग tax is भी termed as `` Consumption कर '' or `` Consumer उपयोग कर ''.
a उपयोग tax is a प्रकार of excise कर levied in the United राज्य by numerous राज्य governments.
it is assessed upon ठोस निजी प्रॉपर्टी खरीदा by a resident of the assessing राज्य for उपयोग, भंडार, or consumption in कि राज्य ( not लिये पुनर्विक्रय ), regardless of जहाँ the खरीदें took place.
if a resident of a राज्य makes a purchase within his home राज्य, पूरा sales tax is paid at the time of the transaction.
The उपयोग कर applies जब a निवासी of the assessing state purchases an item कि is नहीं विषय to his घर राज्य 's बिक्री कर.
प्रायः, इस is due to out-of-state purchases, as well as ordering items through the मेल, by फोन, or over the अंतरजाल इससे अन्य states.
the उपयोग tax is typically assessed at the वही रेट as the sales tax that would have महरूम owed ( if कोई ) था the वही goods महरूम खरीदा in the राज्य of residence.
For उदाहरण, a resident of Massachusetts, with a 6.25 % `` बिक्री and उपयोग tax '' on निश्चित goods और services, purchases non-exempt goods or सेवाएं in नई हैम्पशायर लिये उपयोग, भंडार or अन्य consumption in मैसाचुसेट्स.
अंतर्गत नई Hampshire विधि, the नई Hampshire विक्रेता collects no बिक्री taxes on the goods, but the मैसाचुसेट्स purchaser/user जरूर still अदा 6.25 % of the sales price directly to the Department of आय in मैसाचुसेट्स as a use tax.
if the same goods हैं purchased in a us राज्य कि करता collect बिक्री कर for ऐसे goods at समय of खरीदें, whatever कर यहूद सशुल्क by the purchaser to कि राज्य can be deducted ( as a कर क्रेडिट ) from the 6.25 % owed for subsequent use, storage or consumption in Massachusetts.
With few exceptions, no राज्य 's vendors will चार्ज the native राज्य 's sales कर on goods shipped आउट of राज्य, अर्थ सब goods ordered इससे out-of-state हैं essentially फ़्री of बिक्री कर.
The purchaser is इसलिए जरूरी to declare and अदा the उपयोग tax to उसके home राज्य on ये ordered goods.
The assessing क्षेत्राधिकार may मेक the use कर देय annually, but some राज्य require a मासिक भुगतान.
लिये उदाहरण, जहाँ a Vermont निवासी has not paid at तनिक 6 % sales tax on property brought in लिये use in the राज्य, वर्मांट विधि requires दाखिल a कर वापसी ( Form su-452 और payment ) by the 20th दिन of the month following non-exempt purchases to avoid a $ 50 लेट शुल्क, a 5 % दंड प्रति माह, to a अधिकतम of 25 %, plus statutory ब्याज on the unpaid कर and penalties.
ठेठ छूटों शामिल purchases by charitable non-profit संगठन or सरकारी agencies, purchases लिये resale in commerce, and purchases via `` casual बिक्री '' by individuals नहीं in the ordinary course of कारोबार.
भी note that वहीँ are thousands of कर jurisdictions in the u.S. and many have ever-changing lists of specific types of goods और services that are नहीं taxable.
as an illustration of the complexities : a 2006 मैसाचुसेट्स law requires payment of कर on `` pre-written '' ( not कस्टम ) तन्त्र खरीदा और डाउनलोड over the Internet for installation और उपयोग in मैसाचुसेट्स, regardless of जहाँ it originates.
However, the actual use of the वही तन्त्र downloaded by a Massachusetts निवासी to a सर्वर in another राज्य remains a non-taxed `` सेवा ''.
In कंट्रास्ट, अरकंसास generally does not tax anything delivered over the अंतरजाल ( such as downloaded तन्त्र or म्यूज़िक ), except VoIP which is specifically defined as taxable `` दूरसंचार सेवाएं ''.
तन्त्र ( pre-written or custom ) `` delivered thru a tangible मीडियम '' ( i.e., on disk ) in अरकंसास is taxable भी if ordered online, except `` कस्टम तन्त्र लिये a particular ग्राहक '' which is non-taxable `` प्रोग्रामिंग services '' even if delivered on a डिस्क.
in सबसे cases, this complexity is भाग of the underlying बिक्री tax laws ; लकिन जबकि a brick-and-mortar स्टोर has to सौदे साथ तभी the sales कर कानून of इसके अपना location, remote sellers have to सौदे with the use कर laws of अनेक jurisdictions—up to प्रत्येक us राज्य and locality that प्रकृती them, if the company रै a presence or `` nexus '' in प्रत्येक राज्य ( as विशाल `` brick-and-mortar '' विक्रेता जैसे wal-mart और बेहतरीन ख़रीदे do ).
in आयुर्विज्ञान, pulmonary hypertension ( ph ) is an बढ़ाएँ of blood दबाव in the pulmonary धमनी, pulmonary रग, or pulmonary capillaries, साथ ज्ञात as the lung vasculature, leading to shortness of साँस, dizziness, fainting, and other symptoms, सब of जिससे are exacerbated by exertion.
pulmonary hypertension can be a कठोर बीमारी with a markedly decreased exercise सहिष्णुता and दिल विफलता.
it थी पहला identified by Dr. अर्नस्ट वोन romberg in 1891.
According to the सबसे recent classification, it can be एक of पाँच अलग प्रकार : arterial, venous, hypoxic, thromboembolic or विविध.
सही
right
sanuk, a division of Deckers Outdoor निगम, is a footwear ब्रांड आधारित in Southern California.
Sanuk, the Thai word लिये मजा, थी संस्थापित by दक्षिणी California native जेफ़ kelley when he started बनाना चप्पल out of indoor-outdoor पिंजरा.
the पहला product निर्मित was green carpeted and entitled the `` फर Real '' after एक दूकान owner पूछा if the विलक्षणता चन्दन थी `` For रियल. ''
the फर रियल first became a runaway hit through बुटीक स्टोर्स and not the intended लहरे दुकानें.
the novelty अधिनियम थी followed up by a चन्दन wrapped in wire जाल, a तेंदुआ छपाई संस्करण, और styles बना out of a poncho सामग्री in a किस्में of रंगों.
sanuk has grown to शामिल style options for men, महिलाओं and youth and is वितरित across the संयुक्त राज्य and in over 50 देशों throughout यूरोपीय, एशिया, South America and ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
Sanuk centers itself around a धनात्मक lifestyle advocating the slogan, `` Smile, Pass it on ! ``.
in computer विज्ञान, सरणी प्रोग्रामिंग भाषाएं ( भी known as vector or multidimensional भाषाएं ) generalize परिचालन on scalars to लागू transparently to सदिश, matrices, और higher dimensional arrays.
Array प्रोग्रामिंग primitives concisely एक्स्प्रेस broad विचार about आंकड़ा हेरफेर.
the level of conciseness can be dramatic in certain cases : it is नहीं uncommon to find array प्रोग्रामिंग language one-liners that require more than a युगल of pages of जावा कोड.
APL, designed by केन Iverson, थी the पहला प्रोग्रामिंग language to provide array प्रोग्रामिंग सामर्थ्य.
The mnemonic APL refers to the title of his seminal book `` A Programming भाषा '' और not to arrays प्रति se. Iverson 's contribution to rigor और स्पष्टता was संभवतः more महत्वपूर्ण than the simple एक्सटेंशन of dimensions to कृत्यों.
in the संयुक्त राज्य an annuity contract is निर्मित when an insured party, प्रायः an individual, pays a life बीमे company a सिंगल प्रीमियम कि होगा बाद be distributed वापस to the insured party over समय.
Annuity अनुबंध traditionally provide a guaranteed distribution of आय over समय, such as via फिक्स्ड भुगतान, until the death of the व्यक्ति or व्यक्तियों named in the contract or until a फाइनल तिथि, whichever आता first.
However, the बहुमत of आधुनिक annuity ग्राहक use annuities only to accumulate funds free of income और पूंजी gains taxes and to बाद लो lump-sum withdrawals without using the guaranteed-income-for-life विशेषता.
अध्यक्ष Barack ओबामा.
बराक ओबामा साथ उसके पहला Supreme अदालत nominee, Sonia सोटोमायोर.
Following is a सूची of सब संयुक्त States संघीय न्यायाधीशों नियुक्त by अध्यक्ष Barack Obama दौरान उसके presidency.
As of अप्रैल 30, 2013, 187 ओबामा nominees to आलेख iii judgeships have been पुष्टि by the संयुक्त States सीनेट, namely दो Justices to the परम् अदालत of the संयुक्त States, 35 judges to the United States न्यायालयों of appeals और 150 judges to the संयुक्त States ज़िला न्यायालयों.
25 further nominations are फिलहाल awaiting Senate कार्रवाई.
There are currently 16 vacancies on the संयुक्त राज्य न्यायालयों of appeals, 67 vacancies on the United राज्य ज़िला न्यायालयों and 22 additional संघीय judiciary vacancies कि हैं anticipated to occur पहले the समाप्त of ओबामा 's second term.
Obama has नहीं बना कोई recess नियुक्ति to the federal courts.
Obama has बना दो nominations to the United राज्य अदालत of International Trade, an आलेख iii ट्रिब्यूनल.
Obama also designated sitting judge एमिली C. हेविट of the United राज्य Court of संघीय Claims, an Article i court, to be मुख्य न्यायधीश of that अदालत.
इस is a सूची of एयरपोर्ट in मैक्सिको, sorted by स्थान.
मैक्सिको has about 1,834 एयरपोर्ट, रैंकिंग 2nd in number of airports in उत्तर America, and 3rd in the संसार.
तभी major नेशनल and अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airports are दिखाया.
एजेंसी debt भी known as an एजेंसी बंध is a सुरक्षा, प्रायः a बंध, issued by a U.S. government-sponsored एजेंसी.
The offerings of ये एजेंसियों हैं समर्थित लकिन not guaranteed by the us सरकारी चूंकि the agencies हैं निजी entities.
Some prominent issuers of these प्रतिभूति हैं Student ऋण Marketing Association ( sallie mae ), Federal National Mortgage Association ( Fannie Mae ) और संघीय Home Loan बंधक Corporation ( फ्रेडी मैक ).
एजेंसी प्रतिभूति हैं प्रायः exempt इससे state and लोकल कर, but नहीं संघीय कर.
एजेंसी debt is also पुकारा an एजेंसी सुरक्षा.
The susquehanna Steam इलेक्ट्रिक स्टेशन, a boiling जल रिएक्टर.
The रिएक्टरों are स्तिथ inside the आयताकार containment इमारतें towards the front of the कूलिंग towers.
Three nuclear-powered American warships, ( शीर्ष to bottom ) nuclear cruisers uss Bainbridge and USS long बीच with uss एंटरप्राइज़ the पहला nuclear-powered aircraft वाहक in 1964.
Crew सदस्यों हैं स्पेलिंग out आइंस्टीन 's mass-energy equivalence सूत्र E = mc2 on the flight डेक.
The रूसी nuclear-powered icebreaker NS yamal on a 1994 संयुक्त expedition साथ the nsf.
Nuclear शक्ति is the उपयोग of sustained nuclear परिवर्द्धन to generate heat and विद्युत.
नाभिकीय शक्ति पौधे provided परिचय 5.7 % of the संसार 's उर्जा and 13 % of the world 's electricity, in 2012.
in 2013, the iaea report कि there are 437 operational nuclear शक्ति रिएक्टरों ( हालांकि not all हैं producing विद्युत ), in 31 देशों.
in addition, there हैं approximately 140 नवल vessels using नाभिकीय नोदन in आपरेशन, powered by कुछ 180 रिएक्टरों.
वहीँ is an जारी बहस परिचय the use of नाभिकीय energy.
Proponents, ऐसे as the संसार नाभिकीय संघ, the IAEA and पर्यावरणविद for नाभिकीय उर्जा contend कि nuclear power is a sustainable उर्जा सोर्स that reduces carbon emissions.
Opponents, such as ग्रीनपीस अंतरराष्ट्रीय और nirs, believe कि नाभिकीय power मुद्राएँ अनेक खतरे to लोगों और the environment.
Nuclear शक्ति plant दुर्घटनाओं शामिल the chernobyl विपत्ति ( 1986 ), फुकुशिमा daiichi nuclear विपत्ति ( 2011 ), और the तीन मील द्वीप दुर्घटना ( 1979 ).
There have भी महरूम कुछ nuclear-powered पनडुब्बी mishaps.
शोध into सुरक्षा improvements is continuing और नाभिकीय संलयन, believed to be safer, may be used in the भविष्य.
as of 2012, according to the iaea, विश्वव्यापी वहीँ were 68 सिविल नाभिकीय power रिएक्टरों under निर्माण in 15 countries.
in the US the पंक्तियां of लगभग half its रिएक्टरों have महरूम विस्तारित to 60 सालो, और योजनाएँ to build another dozen हैं अंतर्गत serious विचार.
However, Japan 's 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear विपत्ति prompted a पुनर्विचार of nuclear energy नीति in अनेक countries.
Germany decided to close सब इसके रिएक्टरों by 2022, and इटली रै banned नाभिकीय शक्ति.
Following फुकुशिमा, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Energy एजेंसी halved इसके estimate of अतिरिक्त नाभिकीय generating capacity to be built by 2035.
Photograph of the Berlin वॉल taken इससे the वेस्ट पक्ष.
The वॉल was built in 1961 to prevent ईस्ट germans इससे fleeing इससे साम्यवादी.
it थी an iconic प्रतीक of the Cold War और its fall in 1989 marked the end of the युद्ध.
the ठंडा युद्ध, प्रायः dated इससे 1947 to 1991, थी a sustained state of राजनैतिक और सैन्य टेंशन between powers in the पश्चिमी bloc, वर्चस्व by the संयुक्त राज्य with नाटो among its allies, और शक्तियां in the पूर्वी bloc, वर्चस्व by the सोवियत Union along साथ the वॉरसॉ अनुबंध.
इस began after the कामयाबी of their temporary wartime alliance विरूद्ध नाजी जर्मनी, leaving the USSR और the us as दो superpowers साथ profound economic और political differences.
a न्यूट्रल faction arose साथ the Non-Aligned Movement founded by मिश्र, इण्डिया, और यूगोस्लाविया ; this गुट अस्वीकृत संघ साथ either the US-led West or the soviet-led ईस्ट.
The ठंडा युद्ध was so नामित क्युकी the two major powers—each possessing नाभिकीय हथियार और thereby threatened साथ mutual assured destruction —never मिले in सीधा सैन्य कॉम्बैट.
Instead, in their संघर्ष for global influence वे engaged in जारी मनोवैज्ञानिक warfare और in नियमित indirect confrontations through प्रॉक्सी युद्धों.
Cycles of सापेक्ष शांत होता be followed by high टेंशन, which could have led to world युद्ध.
the tensest times were दौरान the बर्लिन नाकेबंदी ( 1948–1949 ), the Korean War ( 1950–1953 ), the Suez संकट ( 1956 ), the बर्लिन संकट of 1961, the Cuban missile संकट ( 1962 ), the वियतनाम युद्ध ( 1959–1975 ), the Yom kippur युद्ध ( 1973 ), the सोवियत war in Afghanistan ( 1979–1989 ), the सोवियत downing of Korean एयर लाइनों उड़ान 007 ( 1983 ), and the `` Able Archer '' नाटो military exercises ( 1983 ).
the conflict was expressed through military coalitions, strategic conventional फ़ोर्स deployments, extensive सहायता to क्लाएंट राज्य, espionage, massive propaganda campaigns, conventional और nuclear arms races, appeals to neutral राष्ट्र, rivalry at खेल कार्यक्रम ( in particular the ओलंपिक ), and technological प्रतियोगिताओं such as the स्पेस रेस.
the us and USSR became शामिल in political और सैन्य विरोध in the तीसरा World countries of लैटिन अमेरिका, अफ़्रीकी, the Middle East, and southeast एशिया.
To alleviate the risk of a संभावित nuclear war, दोनो पहलू sought राहत of राजनैतिक तनाव through détente in the 1970s.
in the 1980s, the संयुक्त States increased diplomatic, सैन्य, and economic pressures on the सोवियत संघ, at a समय when the कम्युनिस्ट राज्य was already suffering इससे economic stagnation.
In the mid-1980s, the नई Soviet अध्यक्ष मिखाइल Gorbachev introduced the liberalizing reforms of perestroika ( `` reorganization '', 1987 ) and ग्लास्नोस्त ( `` खुलेपन '', ca. 1985 ).
pressures लिये नेशनल स्वतंत्रता grew stronger in Eastern यूरोपीय, विशेषकर Poland.
वे reached a तोड़कर पाइंट when गोर्बाचेव refused to उपयोग सोवियत सैनिकों to support the faltering सरकारी of ईस्ट Germany in late 1989.
Within weeks all the उपग्रह राज्य broke free from Moscow in a शांतिपूर्ण wave of revolutions ( वहीँ थी some हिंसा in रोमानिया ).
The pressures escalated inside the Soviet Union, where साम्यवादी fell और the ussr थी formally dissolved in late 1991.
the United राज्य remained as the world 's तभी महाशक्ति.
The Cold युद्ध और its events have left a significant legacy, और it is often referred to in popular संस्कृति, विशेषकर in media featuring विषयवस्तु of espionage and the threat of nuclear warfare.
pikes Peak राज्य Park is a राज्य park of आयोवा, यूएसए, featuring a bluff overlooking the अपर मिसिसिपी River opposite the संगम of the Wisconsin नदी.
the पार्क is संचालित by the आयोवा विभाग of प्राकृतिक संसाधन.
It is nearly a हजार एकड़ ( 4 km2 ) in extent.
The निकटतम नगर is मैकग्रेगर, आयोवा.
आयोवा राजमार्ग 76 लगभग defines इसके उत्तरी boundary.
it gets इसके name इससे the आयोवा incarnation of pikes शिखर, a particularly ऊँची पाइंट निहार the gorge of the अपर मिसिसिपी, और जैसे pikes शिखर in Colorado, is नामित for Zebulon पाइक.
वहीँ are चढ़ाई trails, campgrounds और rv सुविधाएं.
पहाड़ बाइक हैं permitted in निश्चित portions of the पार्क.
Aside इससे recreational विकास, the जमीन in the पार्क was never साफ and to a विशाल extent remains as it थी पहले the आगमन of श्वेत settlement.
It is भाग of a larger complex of पार्क, reserves and refuges जिससे शामिल पुतला Mounds National स्मारक, the विभिन्न components of the Yellow नदी State वन, the विशाल Upper मिसिसिपी नदी National वन्यजीव and मछली शरण and much छोटी, much less well ज्ञात driftless क्षेत्रफल नेशनल वन्यजीव शरण.
the पूर्वोत्तर Iowa Legacy ट्रेल System is undergoing विकास, and होगा connect तत्व of ये साइट.
zac भूरा Band is an अमरीकी country/folk बैंड based in Atlanta, Georgia.
The lineup consists of zac Brown ( सीसे vocals, guitar ), jimmy de मार्टिनी ( चलाऊ, vocals ), जॉन Driskell हॉपकिंस ( बास गिटार, vocals ), Coy bowles ( गिटार, keyboards ), क्रिस Fryar ( ड्रम ), Clay Cook ( guitar, keyboards, mandolin, स्टील गिटार, vocals ), और डेनियल de los रेयेस ( percussion ).
the band has toured throughout the संयुक्त राज्य, including a slot on the 2009 और 2010 bonnaroo Music पर्व.
वे have also recorded पाँच स्टुडियो एल्बम, और charted नौ क्रमांक एक singles on the Billboard country चार्ट : `` Chicken fried ``, `` toes ``, `` राजमार्ग 20 Ride ``, `` Free ``, `` As She 's चलना दूर ``, `` colder Weather ``, `` घुटना Deep ``, `` रखना Me In दिमाग ``, and `` अलविदा in उसके Eyes `` in जोड to the singles `` Whatever it is `` and `` No hurry ``, which peaked at number 2 on the same chart.
बात रेडियो is a रेडियो format containing discussion परिचय topical issues.
Most shows हैं regularly hosted by a single व्यक्तिगत, और often feature साक्षात्कार साथ a क्रमांक of different guests.
बात रेडियो typically शामिल an तत्व of listener भागीदारी, प्रायः by broadcasting सजीव conversations between the मेजबान और listeners जो `` कॉल in '' ( usually via टेलीफोन ) to the दिखाएँ.
श्रोता contributions हैं usually screened by a show 's निर्माता ( s ) in अनुक्रम to अधिकतम audience ब्याज और, in the case of वाणिज्यिक talk रेडियो, आकर्षित विज्ञापनदाता.
generally, the shows हैं organized into खण्ड, each separated by a ठहराना लिये advertisements ; however, in पब्लिक or non-commercial radio, music is sometimes played in place of commercials to पृथक the कार्यक्रम segments.
विसंगतियाँ of बात रेडियो include conservative बात, hot बात, liberal talk and sports बात.
जबकि बात रेडियो has historically been associated साथ AM/FM, starting around 2005 the प्रौद्योगिकी लिये Internet-based talk-radio shows became लागत प्रभावी in the रूप of podcasts.
अभी, it is संभावित लिये an individual to उपयोग a variety of services to मेजबान an internet-based talk-radio show without carriage by a traditional रेडियो स्टेशन.
In जोड tv programming इससे talk और news आउटलेट ऐसे as बीबीसी, CNN, Bloomberg and फॉक्स हैं now often उपलब्धियाँ expanding the संसार of talk रेडियो further.
बात रेडियो सुनना is अभी enjoyed not only on radios, लकिन a चौड़ी किस्में of other devices and सेवाएं including PCs using iTunes, station निर्देशिका ऐसे as Tunein, दिखाएँ निर्देशिका smartphones साथ apps such as stitcher.
Hippa is a genus of decapod crustaceans in the family hippidae, containing the following species:
hippa adactyla Fabricius, 1787
hippa admirabilis ( Thallwitz, 1892 )
hippa alcimede ( de Man, 1902 )
hippa australis Hale, 1927
hippa carcineutes holthuis & Manning, 1970
hippa celaeno ( de man, 1896 )
Hippa granulatus ( borradaile, 1904 )
Hippa hirtipes ( दाना, 1852 )
hippa indica haig, Murugan & बालकृष्णन Nair, 1986
Hippa marmorata ( hombron & jacquinot, 1846 )
hippa ovalis ( A. milne-edwards, 1862 )
hippa picta ( Heller, 1861 )
Hippa strigillata ( stimpson, 1860 )
hippa testudinaria ( herbst, 1791 )
hippa truncatifrons ( miers, 1878 )
It is closely सम्बन्धित to the genus emerita, and प्रजाति have often महरूम transferred between the two genera.
जकार्ता ( ), officially known as the खास पूंजी प्रदेश of जकार्ता ( ), is the capital and largest नगर of Indonesia.
Located on the northwest coast of जावा, जकार्ता is the देश 's आर्थिक, cultural और political केन्द्र, और with a जनसांख्यिकी of 10,187,595 as of November 2011, it is the सबसे populous नगर in Indonesia और in southeast Asia, और is the thirteenth most populated नगर in the संसार.
the आधिकारिक metropolitan area, known as Jabodetabek ( a नाम formed by combining the आरंभिक syllables of Jakarta, Bogor, Depok, tangerang and Bekasi ), is the दूसरी largest in the संसार, yet the metropolis 's suburbs still continue परे it.
Jakarta is सूचीबद्ध as a global city in the 2008 वैश्वीकरण and World Cities पढ़ाई Group and संजाल ( GaWC ) शोध.
and has an क्षेत्रफल of.
इस क्षेत्रफल रै population of well over 28 लाख, making it one of the संसार 's largest conurbations in शर्तें of number of निवासियों.
In 2011, Jakarta क्रमित 17th among the संसार 's 200 largest शहरों, a जम्प इससे इसके 2007 ranking of 171.
Jakarta has grown more rapidly than Kuala lumpur, Beijing and Bangkok.
Established in the चौथी century, the नगर became an महत्वपूर्ण व्यापार बंदरगाहों लिये the Kingdom of sunda.
it थी the de facto capital of the Dutch East इंडीज ( जब it थी known as Batavia ) और रै जारी as the capital of Indonesia चूंकि the देश 's स्वतंत्रता was घोषित in 1945.
The नगर is the सीट of the ASEAN सचिवालय.
जकार्ता is परोसा by the soekarno–hatta International Airport, Halim perdanakusuma International Airport, और Tanjung priok harbour ; it is connected by अनेक intercity and commuter railways, and परोसा by अनेक bus lines कार्यशील on सुरक्षित busways.
a ठेठ घर एयर conditioning खिड़की ईकाई.
Air conditioning is the process of altering the गुण of air ( primarily तापमान and humidity ) to अधिक favourable शर्तें.
More generally, एयर conditioning can refer to कोई रूप of technological कूलिंग, हीटिंग, वेंटिलेशन, or कीटाणुशोधन that modifies the कंडीशन of air.
an एयर conditioner ( प्रायः referred to as एयर con, ac or A/C, and नहीं to be confused with the संक्षिप्त for alternating वर्तमान ) is a प्रमुख or घर appliance, प्रणाली, or यांत्रिकी designed to change the एयर तापमान और आर्द्रता within an area ( used लिये कूलिंग and sometimes heating depending on the air गुण at a दिए time ).
the cooling is typically किया using a simple प्रशीतन cycle, but sometimes evaporation is प्रयुक्त, commonly लिये सुकून कूलिंग in buildings और मोटर वाहनों.
in निर्माण, a complete प्रणाली of heating, ventilation और air conditioning is referred to as `` HVAC ``.
`` 6 पैर 7 पैर '' ( also styled as `` 6'7 '' ) is a song by अमरीकी rapper लील वेन featuring लेबल mate, कोरी टकराना.
It is लिया इससे his ninth studio album, Tha कार्टर iv ( 2011 ).
it was officially released on iTunes on December 16, 2010.
It थी उत्पादित by `` a milli `` निर्माता बांग्लादेश.
the सोंग samples `` day-o ( the banana नाव सोंग ) `` by Harry belafonte.
dc Talk ( styled as dc बात ), is a Grammy -winning ईसाई रैप तिकड़ी.
the समूह was formed in lynchburg, Virginia in 1987 by टोबी McKeehan, माइकल tait, and Kevin अधिकतम Smith.
They have released पाँच major स्टुडियो albums together : dc Talk ( 1989 ), Nu थांग ( 1990 ), Free at पिछला ( 1992 ), Jesus freak ( 1995 ), और Supernatural ( 1998 ).
in 2002, the ज्ञानकोष of समकालीन ईसाई Music पुकारा DC बात `` the सबसे popular overtly ईसाई अधिनियम of all समय. ''
In 2000, the समूह released an ep titled Solo जिससे contained दो सोलो गीतों इससे each member.
Since कि समय, dc बात रै been on an indefinite अंतराल, and the तीन बैंड members have each led solo careers.
वे have performed and अंकित individual गीतों साथ several times दौरान the 2000s, हालांकि the group never officially reunited or disbanded.
the समूह 's musical style विकसित significantly throughout उनके career.
उनके पहला two रिलीज, dc Talk and Nu थांग, यहूद of the हिप hop विधा.
dc बात 's third एल्बम, फ़्री at Last, भी मुख्यतः took influence इससे the हिप हॉप style, हालांकि उनके म्यूज़िक began taking on a rock ध्वनि.
The तिकड़ी 's पिछला two एल्बम, Jesus freak और अलौकिक, यहूद predominantly pop चट्टान.
the बाइबल is a compilation of many shorter books written at अलग टाइम्स और बाद assembled into the biblical canon.
All लकिन the shortest of ये किताबे have महरूम divided into अध्याय, generally a पेज or so in length, चूंकि the early 13th century.
चूंकि the mid-16th सदी, each अध्याय रै been further divided into `` verses '' of a few short lines or वाक्य.
Sometimes a वाक्य spans more than एक श्लोक, as in the मामला of, और sometimes वहीँ is अधिक than one वाक्य in a सिंगल श्लोक, as in the मामला of.
as the chapter and श्लोक विभाजन were नहीं भाग of the original ग्रन्थ, वे form part of the paratext of the Bible.
The यहूदी divisions of the यहूदी टेक्स्ट differ at विभिन्न अंक इससे those प्रयुक्त by ईसाइयों.
For उदाहरण, in यहूदी परंपरा, the ascriptions to many ज़बूर हैं regarded as स्वतंत्र verses, बनाना 116 more verses, whereas the established Christian अभ्यास is to गिनती and क्रमांक प्रत्येक psalm ascription साथ साथ the first verse following it.
कुछ अध्याय divisions भी occur in अलग स्थान, e.g. in Hebrew bibles is numbered as in ईसाई अनुवाद.
an अनुक्रमणिका ( बहुवचन : indexes ) is a सूची of शब्द or वाक्यांश ( 'headings ' ) और संबद्ध pointers ( 'लोकेटरs ' ) to जहाँ useful material relating to कि heading can be found in a document.
In a परंपरागत back-of-the-book अनुक्रमणिका the headings होगा include names of people, स्थान और कार्यक्रम, और अवधारणाओं चयनित by a person as होने प्रासंगिक and of ब्याज to a संभावित reader of the book.
the pointers हैं typically पेज numbers, paragraph numbers or खण्ड संख्याएँ.
In a पुस्तकालयों कैटलॉग the शब्द हैं authors, शीर्षक, विषय headings, etc., और the संकेतक हैं कॉल numbers.
अंतरजाल ढूंढें इंजन, ऐसे as google, and full text searching help provide access to सूचना लकिन are नहीं as selective as an अनुक्रमणिका, as वे provide non-relevant कड़ी, और may मिस relevant सूचना if it is नहीं phrased in exactly the way वे expect.
in United राज्य वित्तीय विनियमन, a संदिग्ध activity रपट ( or SAR ) is a रपट बना by a वित्तीय संस्था to the Financial अपराधों Enforcement संजाल ( fincen ), an agency of the संयुक्त States विभाग of the Treasury, regarding suspicious or potentially संदिग्ध activity.
Facebook on the Ad-tech 2010
फेसबुक is an ऑनलाइन सोशल networking सेवा, जिनकी नाम तना from the colloquial नाम लिये the किताब दिए to students at the start of the academic साल by some university administrations in the United राज्य to help students मिलेंगी to know each अन्य.
it थी संस्थापित in February 2004 by चिह्नित Zuckerberg साथ उसके college roommates और fellow हार्वर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों students Eduardo saverin, एंड्रयू McCollum, डस्टिन Moskovitz और क्रिस ह्यूजेस.
The जालस्थल 's सदस्यता थी initially limited by the संस्थापकों to हार्वर्ड students, लकिन was expanded to अन्य कॉलेजों in the बोस्टन area, the आइवी लीग, and स्टैनफोर्ड University.
it gradually added support लिये विद्यार्थी at विभिन्न अन्य विश्वविद्यालयों before opening to high स्कूल विद्यार्थी, and eventually to anyone aged 13 और over.
फेसबुक now allows कोई उपयोक्ता जो declare themselves to be at तनिक 13 years बूढ़ा to become registered उपयोक्ता of the साईट.
उपयोक्ता must register before using the साईट, बाद जिससे they may create a निजी profile, add अन्य users as मित्रों, and एक्सचेंज संदेश, including स्वचालित सूचनाएं when वे अद्यतन their प्रोफ़ाइल.
additionally, उपयोक्ता may join common-interest user groups, व्यवस्थित by कार्यस्थल, स्कूल or कॉलेज, or अन्य विशेषताएँ, और categorize उनके friends into सूचियाँ such as `` लोगों From कार्य '' or `` Close Friends ''.
as of सितंबर 2012, फेसबुक रै over एक billion क्रियाशील users.
According to a may 2011 उपभोक्ता रिपोर्ट्स survey, वहीँ हैं 7.5 million children अंतर्गत 13 with accounts and 5 million अंतर्गत 10, violating the साईट 's शर्तें of सेवा.
In may 2005, accel साझेदार invested $ 12.7 लाख in फेसबुक, and Jim breyer added $ 1 million of उसके अपना money to the pot.
a जनवरी 2009 compete.com study क्रमित Facebook as the most प्रयुक्त सोशल networking सेवा by विश्वव्यापी monthly active users.
entertainment साप्ताहिक शामिल the साईट on इसके end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' सूची, saying, `` How on धरती did we stalk हमारी exes, remember हमारी co-workers ' birthdays, bug our मित्रों, और खेल a rousing खेल of scrabulous पहले Facebook ? ''
आलोचकों, ऐसे as Facebook Detox, state कि Facebook रै turned into a नेशनल obsession in the United राज्य, resulting in विशाल amounts of समय lost और प्रोत्साहित आत्ममोह.
Quantcast estimates फेसबुक रै 138.9 लाख monthly unique u.S. विज़िटर in May 2011.
According to Social Media Today, in अप्रैल 2010 an अनुमानित 41.6 % ( 129.5 लाख ) of the U.S. जनसांख्यिकी था a Facebook account.
nevertheless, फेसबुक 's मार्केट विकास started to stall in some regions, साथ the site खोने 7 million active users in the संयुक्त राज्य और Canada in may 2011.
Facebook आखिरकार दायर लिये an initial public offering on February 1, 2012, and थी headquartered in Menlo Park, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
Facebook inc. began selling भण्डार to the पब्लिक और trading on the NASDAQ on may 18, 2012.
Sulfonamide कार्यात्मक समूह
Hydrochlorothiazide is a sulfonamide और a thiazide.
furosemide is a sulfonamide, लकिन नहीं a thiazide.
सल्फोनेमाइड or sulphonamide is the आधार of अनेक समूह of drugs.
the original जीवाणुरोधी sulfonamides ( sometimes पुकारा sulfa दवाएँ or sulpha दवाएँ ) हैं synthetic रोगाणुरोधी एजेंटों कि contain the सल्फोनेमाइड समूह.
Some sulfonamides हैं भी विहीन of antibacterial activity, e.g., the anticonvulsant sultiame.
The sulfonylureas and thiazide diuretics हैं नए drug समूह आधारित on the antibacterial sulfonamides.
sulfa allergies are आम, hence medications containing sulfonamides are prescribed carefully.
It is महत्वपूर्ण to मेक a भेद between sulfa दवाएँ और other sulfur-containing दवाएँ and additives, ऐसे as sulfates and sulfites, which हैं chemically unrelated to the sulfonamide समूह, और do नहीं cause the वही hypersensitivity प्रतिक्रियाएँ देखी in the sulfonamides.
This is a सूची of वर्ण from जार्ज लोपेज़.
घरेलू geese ( Anser anser domesticus or आंसर cygnoides ) हैं domesticated grey geese ( either ग्रेलैग Geese or Swan geese ) रखा as मुर्गीपालन लिये उनके मांस, अंडे, और down feathers since प्राचीन टाइम्स.
30 सेकेंड to Mars is an American rock बैंड from Los एंजिल्स, formed in 1998.
चूंकि 2007, the band has consisted of कर्ता jared leto ( lead vocals, लय गिटार, songwriter ), Shannon leto ( drums, percussion ) और tomo miličević ( सीसे गिटार, keyboards ).
following the प्रस्थान of Matt Wachter ( now of फ़रिश्ते & Airwaves ) in 2007, टिम Kelleher became the bassist लिये the group, performing सजीव only साथ दोनो jared और Miličević रिकॉर्डिंग bass लिये स्टुडियो recordings, while Braxton Olita ( keyboards ) थी added to the touring लाइनअप in 2009.
Previously, the group भी featured guitarists solon bixler ( अभी of ग्रेट उत्तरी ) और केविन ड्रेक ( अभी of Polaroid चुंबन ).
to तिथि, 30 सेकेंड to मंगल have released three studio एल्बम – 30 सेकेंड to Mars ( 2002 ), a खूबसूरत झूठ ( 2005 ), This is युद्ध ( 2009 ) and तीन विस्तारित plays – एओएल Sessions अंडरकवर ( 2007 ), To the किनारे of the Earth ( 2008 ), और एमटीवी unplugged : 30 Seconds to मंगल ( 2011 ).
30 सेकेंड to मंगल ' म्यूज़िक has been संबद्ध mostly with neo-prog, प्रगतिशील मेटल और post-grunge, but they have भी included भावनाएं, screamo, स्पेस rock और synthrock into their music.
They have महरूम compared to Pink floyd ( who यहूद an influence on उनके work ) और औजार क्युकी of their use of philosophical और आध्यात्मिक गीत, अवधारणा albums and उनके उपयोग of प्रायोगिक म्यूज़िक.
a क्रिसमस स्टोरी is a 1983 American क्रिसमस कॉमेडी फिल्मी आधारित on the छोटी कहानियां और semi-fictional anecdotes of author and raconteur Jean Shepherd, आधारित on उसके book In God We Trust, All अन्य Pay नकदी, साथ some तत्व निकला from वांडा हिक्की 's रात्रि of Golden यादें.
it थी निर्देशित by bob क्लार्क.
the फिल्मी रै चूंकि become a अवकाश classic और is shown numerous टाइम्स on television दौरान the Christmas season on the network tbs, often in a 24-hour marathon.
in 2012, the फिल्मी was चयनित for संरक्षण in the नेशनल Film Registry by the पुस्तकालयों of कॉंग्रेस लिये होने `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
A जो 's केकड़ा shack शाखा in सैन डिएगो, CA.
the भवन थी initially a rowing क्लबों और was बाद परिवर्तित into the रेस्तरां.
जो 's केकड़ा Shack is an American कड़ी of beach-themed seafood कैज़ुअल dining restaurants owned by Ignite रेस्तरां समूह.
संस्थापित in Houston, टेक्सास, the restaurant अभी operates स्थितियाँ सब आरपार the संयुक्त States of अमेरिका.
it serves seafood और American भोजन.
The रेस्तरां also have a तोहफा shop कि बिकता facetious t-shirts featuring वाक्यांश advertising जो 's seafood चुनाव.
it is आधारित in ह्यूस्टन, टेक्सास.
नई York नगर Cruise लाइनर Terminal in Hell 's रसोईघर at 52nd गली.
The नई यॉर्क यात्री Ship टर्मिनल ( भी ज्ञात as the Luxury Liner पंक्ति or Manhattan क्रूज टर्मिनल or नई यॉर्क क्रूज टर्मिनल ) is a terminal for ocean-going passenger जहाजों on मैनहटन 's वेस्ट side.
the टर्मिनल consists of North नदी Piers 88, 90, 92 and 94 on the Hudson नदी between वेस्ट 46th and वेस्ट 54th Street.
( As a सामान्य नियम, pier numbers in मैनहटन can be संकल्पित by adding 40 to the corresponding cross-street. )
जहाजों अभी डॉक at Piers 88, 90 and 92.
बांध 94 on the north side is अभी used लिये exhibition स्पेस.
बांध 86, once प्रयुक्त by United राज्य लाइनों, is अभी घर to the USS Intrepid.
In 2003, the टर्मिनल handled 900,000 यात्री.
the नगर is forecasting कि 1.5 लाख होगा उपयोग the terminal by 2017.
The पियर are long and apart.
वे were first completed in 1935 to replace the चेल्सी पियर as the नगर 's लक्ज़री liner terminal.
The new terminal थी built to हैंडल bigger जहाजों कि था outgrown the चेल्सी पियर.
the पियर यहूद संवर in 1970 और हैं फिलहाल undergoing another $ 150 लाख renovation.
the renovated योजनाएँ call for it to handle तीन large ships at a समय.
In doing renovations, the नगर is भी considering decommissioning बांध 92.
लोगो of the नई यॉर्क क्रूज terminal.for
दशकों the terminal थी the only ocean-going passenger टर्मिनल in New यॉर्क हार्बर.
With an upsurge in क्रूज जलयान ट्रैफ़िक और the टर्मिनल 's क्षमता to handle comfortably only three विशाल ships at a time, दो नई terminals have खोली in the हार्बर — the Cape Liberty क्रूज Port खोली in 2004 in Bayonne, नई Jersey ( प्रयुक्त by royal Caribbean क्रूज Line, Celebrity क्रूज़ and azamara Cruises ), और the Brooklyn क्रूज टर्मिनल ( प्रयुक्त by the महारानी Mary 2 और other जहाजों of the कार्निवल निगम cruise ब्रांड्स ) opened in 2006 in ब्रुकलीन, नई York.
the West पक्ष Highway takes a छोटी जोग east इससे the पियर to नीचे वेस्ट 42nd गली क्युकी जब the टर्मिनल was built land था to be लिया दूर from Manhattan to allow लिये longer पियर.
The us फौज corps of Engineers, who control the waterfront dimension, होता not extend the pierhead line दूर into the नदी, so the city विस्तारित the pier by cutting away at the जमीन.
The नगर पहले did this लिये the Chelsea Piers ; however in Chelsea तभी landfill was taken दूर.
at the यात्री टर्मिनल वास्तविक मैनहटन schist was लिया दूर.
इससे डाउनस्ट्रीम in the नदी
Many major यात्री ships have docked वहीँ, including the RMS Queen Mary 2 and स्वतंत्रता of the समंदर, पहले the Brooklyn and bayonne terminals खोली.
The SS normandie caught आग और subsequently capsized at इसके बांध 88 berth during World War ii.
the Normandie, renamed USS lafayette, झूठ capsized in the frozen मिट्टी at Pier 88 in the winter of 1942
Norwegian Cruise लकीर 's जल्द to be नवीनतम जलयान the नॉर्वेजियाई Breakaway होगा sail year-round out of the नई यॉर्क यात्री Ship Terminal.
The नगर will खर्च $ 4 million to renovate और उन्नयन the क्रूज टर्मिनल to accommodate the जलयान.
This is an अवलोकन of the नियमित, पुनरावर्ती, and अन्य characters of the tv श्रेणी ncis.
ईसाई सही is a term प्रयुक्त in the United States to describe right-wing Christian राजनैतिक समूह कि हैं characterized by उनके दमदार support of socially conservative policies.
Christian conservatives प्रधानतया तलाश to लागू उनके समझना of the teachings of christianity to राजनीती और public policy by proclaiming the मान of those शिक्षाओं and/or by seeking to उपयोग those teachings to influence law और पब्लिक policy.
in the U.S., the Christian सही is an informal गठबन्धन formed around a core of धर्मान्तरण protestants कि draws `` support इससे नीतियां conservative catholics, Jews, mormons, and occasionally secularists '' who share their लक्ष्य.
the गति रै its roots in अमरीकी politics going back as far the 1940s और रै महरूम विशेषकर influential चूंकि the 1970s.
उनके influence draws, in part, from grassroots activism as खूब as their फ़ोकस on सोशल issues और ability to motivate the electorate around those issues.
The Christian right is notable today for advancing socially conservative positions on मुद्दे सहित स्कूल prayer, स्टेम कोशिका शोध, समलैंगिकता, contraception, गर्भपात, और pornography.
हालांकि the ईसाई right is usually associated with the u.S., the गति has been a कुंजी factor in the राजनीती of Canada, The नीदरलैंड्स, Northern आयरलैंड और ऑस्ट्रेलिया, among अन्य.
Far ईस्ट Movement ( stylized as far★east Movement or abbreviated fm ) is an अमरीकी हिप हॉप band quartet based in Los Angeles.
The group formed in 2003 और consists of Kev nish ( Kevin nishimura ), prohgress ( जेम्स roh ), j-splif ( jae choung ), और DJ virman ( virman coquia ).
दूर ईस्ट Movement 's first claim to fame थी उनके सोंग `` गोलाकार Round '' प्रदर्शित in the हॉलीवुड फिल्म, the Fast and the क्रोधित : टोकियो Drift, and इसके subsequent साउंडट्रैक, video खेल और DVD.
Since `` गोलाकार Round '', the group रै been featured on विभिन्न संजाल shows including,, Entourage, Gossip Girl, और finishing the खेल ( a प्रदर्शित फिल्मी at sundance 2007 ).
Their सिंगल `` जैसे a g6 `` hit क्रमांक एक on the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 चार्ट और on iTunes as खूब in late अक्तूबर 2010.
दूर East Movement भी has the भेद of being the पहला asian-american समूह to earn a # 1 hit on the Billboard hot 100 in the United राज्य.
lr44 is the आईईसी नामांकन लिये an alkaline 1.5 volt बटन कोशिका, commonly प्रयुक्त in small led flashlights, digital thermometers, calculators, calipers, watches, clocks, toys और लेज़र संकेतक.
LR44 क्षारीय कोशिका
The बैटरी nomenclature is पारिभाषित by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय विद्युततकनीकी Commission ( आईईसी ) in इसके 60086-3 मानक ( प्राथमिक बैटरी, भाग 3 देखें batteries ).
The अक्षर L indicates the electrochemical प्रणाली प्रयुक्त ; a जस्ता negative एलेक्ट्रोड, manganese डाइऑक्साइड depolarizer और positive electrode, and an alkaline electrolyte.
r44 indicates a गोलाकार कोशिका 11.4±0.2 mm व्यास और 5.2±0.2 mm ऊँचाई as defined by the IEC मानक 60086.
निर्माताओं have their अपना part संख्याएँ for IEC प्रकार lr44 बैटरी including:
LR44, lr44g, LR44GD, lr44h
LR1154, l1154, l1154c, L1154F, L1154G, l1154h
6135-99-792-8475 ( NSN )
1166A
AG13, a613, AG14, AG-14, g13a, G13-A
157, 303, 357
A76, GDA76, gp76a, gpa7, GPA75, gpa76, gps76A,
1128MP, 208-904, a-76, ca18, ca19, cr44, d76a, KA, KA76, ms76h, PX76A, px675a, rpx675, rw82, SB-F9, V13GA
4.5-volt, d, C, aa, AAA, aaaa, a23, 9-volt, cr2032 और LR44 batteries
अन्य types of बैटरी are or were made in the R44 size.
Formerly, mercury बैटरी were बना as button cells ( प्रकार MR44 और nr44 ).
zinc-air बैटरी type pr44 आवश्यकता एयर to work.
silver-oxide batteries प्रकार sr44 may provide अतिरिक्त capacity compared to lr44 types लकिन have थोड़ा अलग वोल्टेज characteristics.
प्रदर्शन of a यंत्र meant to उपयोग a silver-oxide बैटरी may be degraded साथ substitution of lr44 types.
Manufacturer 's संख्याएँ for silver oxide R44 आकार cells include:
sr44/sr44w/sr44sw
6135-99-651-3240 ( nsn )
sr1154
1107so
1131sop
sg13
s76
EPX76 ( Energizer )
303/357 ( d357h )
hurricane Katrina थी the deadliest and सबसे destructive अटलांटिक hurricane of the 2005 अटलांटिक hurricane season.
It was the costliest प्राकृतिक विपत्ति, as खूब as one of the पाँच deadliest hurricanes, in the इतिहास of the संयुक्त States.
among recorded Atlantic hurricanes, it थी the sixth strongest overall.
at तनिक 1,833 people died in the hurricane and subsequent floods, बनाना it the deadliest U.S. hurricane since the 1928 okeechobee hurricane ; कुल property क्षति was अनुमानित at $ 81 अरब ( 2005 USD ), nearly ट्रिपल the क्षति brought by hurricane एंड्रयू in 1992.
hurricane Katrina formed over the बहामा on अगस्त 23, 2005 और crossed southern Florida as a मॉडरेट श्रेणी 1 hurricane, causing some मौतों and बाढ़ वहीँ पहले strengthening rapidly in the गल्फ of मैक्सिको.
the hurricane strengthened to a श्रेणी 5 hurricane over the गरम गल्फ water, लकिन weakened पहले making इसके दूसरी landfall as a Category 3 hurricane on the morning of सोमवार, August 29 in southeast louisiana.
It caused कठोर destruction along the गल्फ coast from सेंट्रल फ्लोरिडा to टेक्सास, much of it due to the तूफ़ान surge.
the सबसे significant क्रमांक of deaths occurred in New ऑरलियन्स, Louisiana, जिससे flooded as the तटबन्ध प्रणाली catastrophically failed, in अनेक मामले घंटों बाद the storm था स्थानांतरित अंतर्देशीय.
Eventually 80 % of the city and large tracts of neighboring parishes became flooded, and the floodwaters lingered for weeks.
however, the worst property damage occurred in coastal areas, ऐसे as सब Mississippi beachfront कस्बों, जिससे were flooded over 90 % in घंटों, as नौकाएँ और कसीनो barges rammed buildings, pushing गाड़ियाँ और houses अंतर्देशीय, साथ waters reaching 6–12 मील ( 10–19 km ) इससे the बीच.
the hurricane surge सुरक्षा असफलताओं in नई Orleans हैं considered the worst civil अभियान्त्रिकी विपत्ति in u.S. इतिहास और prompted a मुकदमा विरूद्ध the U.S. Army corps of Engineers ( USACE ), the designers and builders of the levee प्रणाली as mandated by the बाढ़ कंट्रोल अधिनियम of 1965.
जिम्मेदारी for the असफलताओं and बाढ़ थी रखी squarely on the Army corps in जनवरी 2008 by न्यायधीश stanwood Duval, U.S. District अदालत, but the संघीय एजेंसी could not be held financially liable due to sovereign immunity in the बाढ़ कंट्रोल Act of 1928.
वहीँ was भी an छानबीन of the प्रतिक्रियाएँ from federal, state और लोकल governments, resulting in the resignation of संघीय Emergency Management Agency ( FEMA ) निदेशक Michael D. भूरा, और of नई ऑरलियन्स Police Department ( nopd ) Superintendent एडी कम्पास.
अनेक एजेंसियों including the United States coast Guard ( USCG ), नेशनल Hurricane बीच ( nhc ), and National मौसम सेवा ( nws ) were commended लिये उनके क्रियाएँ.
वे provided सटीक hurricane मौसम tracking forecasts साथ sufficient lead समय.
भी the most insistent appeals इससे नेशनल, राज्य और लोकल पब्लिक officials to residents to evacuate before the storm किया not warn कि the levees could उल्लंघन और fail.
u.S. कर्ज़ इससे 1940 to 2011.
Red लाइनों indicate the `` कर्ज़ आयोजित by the public '' and ब्लैक लाइनों indicate the total नेशनल कर्ज़ or सकल public कर्ज़.
the अंतर is the `` intragovernmental कर्ज़, '' जिससे शामिल obligations to सरकारी programs such as Social Security.
Stated as a formula, National कर्ज़ = कर्ज़ आयोजित by the Public + intragovernmental कर्ज़.
The दूसरी फलक shows the two debt आंकड़े as a percentage of U.S. जीडीपी ( डालर मान of U.S. आर्थिक उत्पादन for that साल ).
The top फलक is deflated so every year is in 2010 डॉलर.
the संयुक्त राज्य पब्लिक कर्ज़ is the money उधार by the संघीय government of the United राज्य through the issuing of securities by the राजकोष और अन्य संघीय government agencies.
us public debt consists of दो components:
कर्ज़ held by the पब्लिक शामिल राजकोष securities आयोजित by investors बाहर the federal government, सहित that आयोजित by individuals, corporations, the Federal Reserve प्रणाली and विदेशी, राज्य and local governments.
कर्ज़ held by government accounts or intragovernmental debt includes non-marketable Treasury प्रतिभूति आयोजित in खाते administered by the संघीय सरकारी that are owed to कार्यक्रम beneficiaries, such as the सोशल Security Trust Fund.
कर्ज़ आयोजित by government accounts represents the cumulative surpluses, including ब्याज आय, of these accounts कि have been invested in राजकोष प्रतिभूति.
Public debt increases or decreases as a result of the annual एकीकृत budget deficit or surplus.
The संघीय सरकारी budget deficit or surplus is the अंतर between सरकारी receipts और बिता, ignoring intra-governmental हस्तांतरण.
however, some spending that is excluded इससे the deficit ( supplemental appropriations ) also adds to the कर्ज़.
historically, the US पब्लिक कर्ज़ as a share of जीडीपी increased during युद्धों and recessions, और subsequently अस्वीकृत.
लिये example, कर्ज़ आयोजित by the पब्लिक as a share of जीडीपी peaked बस बाद World War ii ( 113 % of जीडीपी in 1945 ), लकिन तब fell over the following 30 सालो.
In recent दशकों, however, विशाल बजट deficits and the resulting increases in debt have led to चिंता परिचय the long-term sustainability of the संघीय सरकारी 's फिस्कल policies.
on 2 अप्रैल 2013, कर्ज़ held by the public थी approximately $ 11.959 trillion or about 75 % of जीडीपी.
intragovernmental holdings stood at $ 4.846 खरब, giving a combined total पब्लिक debt of $ 16.805 खरब.
as of जनवरी 2013, $ 5.6 खरब or approximately 47 % of the कर्ज़ आयोजित by the public was स्वामित्व by विदेशी निवेशकों, the largest of जिससे were the People 's गणतंत्र of चीन और Japan at बस over $ 1.1 खरब प्रत्येक.
in basketball, an assist is attributed to a खिलाड़ी who गुजरता the बॉल to a teammate in a way कि leads to a स्कोर by फ़ील्ड लक्ष्य, अर्थ that he or वो was `` assisting '' in the basket.
There is some निर्णय शामिल in deciding whether a passer should be credited with an assist.
An assist can be scored for the passer भी if the खिलाड़ी जो receives the pass makes a basket बाद dribbling the बॉल.
However, the असली परिभाषा of an assist किया नहीं include such situations, so the comparison of assist आंकडे across eras is a जटिल matter.
तभी the pass directly पहले the स्कोर may be counted as an assist, so no अधिक than one assist can be recorded प्रति फ़ील्ड goal ( unlike in अन्य खेल, such as ice हॉकी ).
A pass कि leads to a shooting बेईमानी and स्कोरिंग by फ़्री throws करता नहीं गिनती as an assist in the एनबीए, but does in FIBA खेल ( तभी one assist is awarded प्रति नियत of फ़्री throws in जिससे at least एक free throw is बना ).
पाइंट गार्ड tend to get the सबसे assists प्रति खेल ( apg ), as उनके भूमिका is primarily कि of a passer and ballhandler.
centers tend to get fewer assists, लकिन centers साथ good मंजिल उपस्थिति और court दृष्टि can dominate a team by assisting.
Being अंदर the कुंजी, the बीच often has the best कोण और the बेहतरीन स्थिति लिये `` बर्तन '' and अन्य छोटी गुजरता in the scoring क्षेत्रफल.
बीच wilt चेम्बरलेन led the NBA in assists in 1968.
a strong बीच साथ inside-scoring prowess, such as पूर्व एनबीए बीच hakeem Olajuwon, can also be an प्रभावी assistor because the defense 's double-teaming tends to खोलें up ठोकर in the रूप of shooters.
the एनबीए single-game assist रिकार्ड is 30, आयोजित by Scott skiles of the Orlando जादू विरूद्ध the डेनवर टेंडर्स, on दिसम्बर 30, 1990.
The NBA रिकार्ड लिये सबसे career assists is held by John Stockton साथ 15,806.
the मिल or mille ( ) ( sometimes mil in the UK, when discussing property कर in the संयुक्त राज्य, or previously in साइप्रस and Malta ) is a now-abstract unit of currency used sometimes in हिसाब.
in the संयुक्त States, it is a notional ईकाई समतुल्य to of a United राज्य डालर ( a tenth of a cent ).
in the संयुक्त किंगडम it was proposed दौरान the दशकों of discussion on the decimalization of the pound as a division of the पाउंड sterling.
Several अन्य currencies प्रयुक्त the mill, ऐसे as the maltese लीरा.
the पद comes इससे the लैटिन `` millesimum '', meaning `` thousandth part ''.
The Greco-Persian युद्धों ( also प्रायः पुकारा the Persian युद्धों ) were a श्रेणी of विरोध between the हख़ामनी Empire of फारस और city-states of the Hellenic संसार कि प्रारंभ in 499 bc और lasted जबतक 449 BC.
the टक्कर between the fractious राजनैतिक संसार of the यूनानियों और the विशाल साम्राज्य of the फारसियों began जब सायरस the Great conquered ionia in 547 BC.
Struggling to rule the independent-minded शहरों of ionia, the Persians appointed उत्पीड़क to rule प्रत्येक of उन्हें.
इस होता prove to be the सोर्स of much trouble लिये the Greeks and फारसियों alike.
in 499 bc, the तब tyrant of Miletus, aristagoras, embarked on an expedition to जीतें the island of Naxos, साथ पारसी support ; however, the expedition थी a क़हर और, pre-empting उसके dismissal, aristagoras incited सब of हैलेनिक एशिया नाबालिग into rebellion विरूद्ध the फारसियों.
इस थी the beginning of the Ionian विद्रोह, जिससे होता पिछला जबतक 493 bc, progressively आरेखण अधिक regions of एशिया नाबालिग into the विरोध.
Aristagoras secured military support इससे एथेंस और eretria, और in 498 bc ये शक्तियां helped to कैप्चर और burn the Persian क्षेत्रीय पूंजी of Sardis.
the Persian किंग Darius the ग्रेट vowed to have बदला on एथेंस और eretria लिये इस act.
The revolt जारी, साथ the two पहलू effectively stalemated throughout 497–495 bc.
in 494 bc, the फारसियों regrouped, and attacked the epicentre of the revolt in Miletus.
At the Battle of lade, the ionians suffered a निर्णायक defeat, and the विद्रोह collapsed, साथ the फाइनल members होने stamped out the following साल.
seeking to सुरक्षित उसके साम्राज्य इससे further revolts and from the हस्तक्षेप of the मेनलैंड यूनानियों, दारा embarked on a scheme to जीतें यूनानियों and to सजा एथेंस and Eretria लिये burning Sardis.
The पहला पारसी आक्रमण of यूनानियों began in 492 bc, साथ the पारसी general mardonius conquering Thrace और Macedon पहले अनेक mishaps forced an जल्दी समाप्त to the अभियान.
in 490 BC a दूसरी फ़ोर्स was sent to यूनानियों, इस समय across the Aegean Sea, अंतर्गत the कमांड of Datis और artaphernes.
This expedition subjugated the cyclades, पहले besieging, capturing and razing Eretria.
However, जबकि en route to attack एथेंस, the पारसी फ़ोर्स थी decisively पराजित by the athenians at the बैटल of Marathon, समाप्ति Persian प्रयत्न लिये the समय होने.
दारा तब began to plan to पूरा the conquest of यूनानियों, but died in 486 BC और जिम्मेदारी लिये the conquest passed to his son xerxes i.
In 480 BC, Xerxes personally led the second पारसी आक्रमण of यूनानियों with एक of the largest प्राचीन armies ever assembled.
Victory over the 'allied ' यूनानी राज्य ( led by Sparta और Athens ) at the बैटल of thermopylae अनुमत the फारसियों to torch एथेंस and overrun most of Greece.
however, while seeking to destroy the संयुक्त यूनानी बेड़े, the फारसियों suffered a severe शिकस्त at the बैटल of salamis.
The following साल, the confederated यूनानियों गई on the offensive, defeating the Persian army at the बैटल of plataea, and समाप्ति the आक्रमण of Greece.
the allied Greeks followed up their कामयाबी by destroying the बाकी of the पारसी बेड़े at the बैटल of mycale, before expelling पारसी garrisons from sestos ( 479 bc ) और Byzantium ( 478 BC ).
the क्रियाएँ of the general pausanias at the घेरा of byzantium alienated अनेक of the यूनानी राज्य इससे the spartans, और the anti-Persian गठबंधन थी इसलिए reconstituted around Athenian नेतृत्व, as the so-called delian League.
The delian लीग continued to अभियान विरूद्ध Persia लिये the next तीन दशकों, शुरूआत साथ the expulsion of the बाकी पारसी garrisons इससे यूरोपीय.
At the Battle of the Eurymedon in 466 BC, the लीग won a दोगुना victory कि finally secured स्वतंत्रता लिये the cities of ionia.
however, the League 's भागीदारी in an Egyptian revolt ( इससे 460–454 BC ) resulted in a विनाशकारी शिकस्त, और further campaigning थी suspended.
a बेड़े was भेजा to साइप्रस in 451 bc, लकिन achieved छोटी, और when it withdrew the Greco-Persian Wars खींचा to a quiet end.
कुछ historical sources सुझाएँ the end of hostilities was marked by a सलाम सन्धि between एथेंस और फारस, the so-called Peace of callias.
hooverville निकट पोर्टलैंड, ऑरेगॉन
A `` hooverville '' is the popular नाम लिये shanty कस्बों built by बेघर people during the ग्रेट Depression.
They यहूद नामित after Herbert हूवर, जो थी अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States दौरान the onset of the अवसाद and widely blamed for it.
The पद was coined by Charles माइकेल्सन, publicity chief of the Democratic नेशनल कमेटी.
Matthew माइकल hasselbeck ( born सितंबर 25, 1975 ) is an अमरीकी football quarterback लिये the इंडियानापोलिस Colts of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League ( एनएफएल ).
He थी drafted in the छठे गोलाकार of the 1998 एनएफएल Draft by the Green खाड़ी Packers.
बाद a ऋतु on the अभ्यास squad और two सीज़न backing up ब्रेट Favre, he थी traded to the Seattle Seahawks in 2001.
Hasselbeck gained the starting role in 2003, और led सिएटल to छह playoff दिखावे और a सुपर Bowl रूप ; he थी चयनित to तीन प्रो Bowls and an all-pro चयन.
Following टेन seasons साथ the सीहॉक्स, hasselbeck joined the टेनेसी Titans in 2011.
Hasselbeck then signed a अनुबंध साथ the इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस in 2013 कम than 24 hours बाद being released by the टेनेसी Titans.
आईसीटी is inevitably सम्बन्धित to the कंप्यूटर संजाल.
Information और Communications प्रौद्योगिकी or ( आईसीटी ), is प्रायः used as an विस्तारित पर्याय लिये information technology ( it ), लकिन is a अधिक specific term कि stresses the भूमिका of एकीकृत communications and the integration of telecommunications ( telephone lines और wireless सिग्नल ), computers as well as जरुरी एंटरप्राइज़ तन्त्र, middleware, भंडार, और audio-visual systems, जिससे enable उपयोक्ता to access, स्टोर, transmit, और manipulate सूचना.
the phrase ICT था महरूम प्रयुक्त by अकादमिक शोधकर्ताओं चूंकि the 1980s, but it became popular बाद it was used in a रपट to the uk सरकारी by डेनिस stevenson in 1997 and in the संशोधित नेशनल Curriculum लिये England, वेल्स और उत्तरी Ireland in 2000.
the term आईसीटी is now भी प्रयुक्त to refer to the convergence of audio-visual और telephone संजाल with कंप्यूटर संजाल through a single cabling or कड़ी प्रणाली.
There हैं विशाल आर्थिक प्रोत्साहन ( विशाल लागत savings due to विलोपन of the टेलीफोन network ) to merge the audio-visual, building प्रबन्धन और टेलीफोन संजाल साथ the computer संजाल system using a सिंगल एकीकृत प्रणाली of cabling, सिग्नल distribution और management.
The term infocommunications is प्रयुक्त in some cases as a shorter रूप of information और communication ( s ) प्रौद्योगिकी.
in फैक्ट infocommunications is the expansion of telecommunications with information प्रसंस्करण and सामग्री handling कृत्यों on a common digital प्रौद्योगिकी आधार.
For a तुलना of these and अन्य शर्तें, see.
लिये ICT विकास अनुक्रमणिका around the संसार, देखिए.
This is a list of वर्ण from George लोपेज़.
A schematic presentation of the प्लम खीर model of the atom ; in Thomson 's गणितीय model the `` corpuscles '' ( or modern electrons ) यहूद arranged non-randomly, in घूर्णन rings
The वर्तमान model of the sub-atomic structure involves a घना केंद्रक surrounded by a probabilistic `` cloud '' of electrons
the प्लम खीर model of the atom by J. J. thomson, जो discovered the electron in 1897, was प्रस्तावित in 1904 before the discovery of the परमाणु केंद्रक in अनुक्रम to add the इलेक्ट्रॉन to the परमाणु मॉडल.
In this मॉडल, the atom is रचित of electrons ( जिससे Thomson स्टिल called `` corpuscles '', हालांकि G. J. Stoney had प्रस्तावित कि atoms of electricity be पुकारा electrons in 1894 ) घिरी by a सूप of positive charge to balance the electrons ' ऋणात्मक charges, like negatively charged `` plums `` घिरी by positively चार्ज `` खीर ``.
The electrons ( as we know them today ) यहूद विचार to be positioned throughout the atom, लकिन साथ अनेक structures possible लिये positioning अनेक electrons, particularly घूर्णन rings of electrons ( see below ).
बजाय of a सूप, the अणु थी also sometimes कहा to have had a `` बादल '' of positive charge.
साथ इस मॉडल, Thomson abandoned उसके earlier `` nebular अणु '' hypothesis in जिससे the atom was रचित of immaterial vortices.
अभी, at least भाग of the atom थी to be रचित of thomson 's particulate negative corpuscles, हालांकि the बाकी of the positively चार्ज part of the अणु remained somewhat nebulous and ill-defined.
the 1904 thomson model थी disproved by the 1909 सुनहरा foil प्रयोग of hans Geiger और Ernest Marsden.
This थी interpreted by अर्नेस्ट Rutherford in 1911
to imply a बहुत छोटी nucleus of the अणु containing a बहुत high positive charge ( in the मामला of gold, enough to balance about 100 electrons ), thus अग्रणी to the Rutherford model of the atom.
हालांकि सुनहरा रै an परमाणु क्रमांक of 79, तत्काल बाद रदरफोर्ड 's पेपर appeared in 1911 antonius Van डेन Broek made the intuitive suggestion कि परमाणु क्रमांक is nuclear चार्ज.
the matter required experiment to decide.
Henry moseley 's work दिखाया experimentally in 1913 ( देखिए Moseley 's law ) that the effective नाभिकीय चार्ज थी बहुत बंद to the atomic number ( moseley मिला only one ईकाई अंतर ), और moseley referenced तभी the papers of Van डेन Broek and Rutherford.
This कार्य culminated in the solar-system-like ( लकिन quantum-limited ) bohr मॉडल of the अणु in the वही year, in which a केंद्रक containing an atomic क्रमांक of positive charge is घिरी by an बराबर number of electrons in कक्षीय शेल.
bohr था also प्रेरित moseley 's work.
Thomson 's मॉडल थी compared ( हालांकि नहीं by Thomson ) to a British मिठाई पुकारा plum खीर, hence the name.
thomson 's पेपर was प्रकाशित in the कूच 1904 संस्करण of the Philosophical पत्रिका, the अग्रणी अंग्रेजों विज्ञान जर्नल of the day.
in thomson 's view :... the atoms of the elements consist of a number of negatively electrified corpuscles enclosed in a गोला of uniform positive विद्युतीकरण,...
in इस model, the electrons were फ़्री to rotate भीतर the blob or बादल of धनात्मक पदार्थ.
These orbits यहूद stabilized in the model by the फैक्ट कि जब an इलेक्ट्रॉन स्थानांतरित दूर from the बीच of the धनात्मक cloud, it felt a larger net positive inward फ़ोर्स, क्युकी वहीँ was अधिक सामग्री of विपरीत charge, अंदर इसके कक्षा ( see Gauss 's law ).
In thomson 's model, electrons यहूद फ़्री to rotate in बजती जिससे were further stabilized by interactions between the electrons, और spectra were to be accounted लिये by उर्जा मतभेद of different रिंग orbits.
Thomson attempted to मेक his मॉडल account लिये some of the प्रमुख spectral lines ज्ञात for कुछ तत्व, लकिन was नहीं notably successful at इस.
स्टिल, thomson 's मॉडल ( साथ with a समान saturnian रिंग मॉडल for परमाणु electrons, भी put आगे in 1904 by Nagaoka बाद जेम्स क्लर्क मैक्सवेल 's मॉडल of शनि 's बजती ), were पहले harbingers of the later and more successful solar-system-like bohr मॉडल of the atom.
ठेठ स्ट्रिप of बेकन.
बेकन is a cured meat prepared इससे a सुअर.
it is first cured using विशाल quantities of salt, either in a brine or in a dry पैकिंग ; the result is भैस bacon ( भी ज्ञात as ग्रीन bacon ).
Fresh bacon may तब be further सूखी लिये weeks or महीने in ठंडा एयर, or it may be boiled or smoked.
Fresh और सूखी bacon is typically पकाया पहले eating.
boiled बेकन is तैयार to खा, as is कुछ स्मोक्ड बेकन, but may be पकाया further पहले eating.
बेकन is prepared from अनेक अलग cuts of meat.
it is usually made from side and वापस कटौती of pork, मगर in the संयुक्त राज्य, where it is लगभग सदा prepared from पोर्क belly ( typically referred to as `` streaky '', `` वसीय '', or `` अमरीकी style '' outside of the US and कनाडा ).
the पक्ष काटें has अधिक meat और less मोटे than the belly.
बेकन may be prepared from either of two distinct वापस कटौती : fatback, which is लगभग pure fat, और पोर्क loin, जिससे is very झुकना.
bacon-cured पोर्क loin is known as वापस बेकन.
uncooked पोर्क belly बेकन strips.
Bacon may be eaten स्मोक्ड, boiled, fried, baked, or ग्रील्ड, or प्रयुक्त as a नाबालिग संघटक to स्वाद dishes.
Bacon is भी प्रयुक्त for barding और larding roasts, especially खेल, e.g. venison, pheasant.
the word is निकला इससे the Old ऊँची जर्मनी bacho, meaning `` buttock '', `` हैम '' or `` side of बेकन '', and cognate साथ the Old French बेकन.
In महाद्वीपीय यूरोपीय, इस भाग of the सुअर is usually नहीं स्मोक्ड जैसे बेकन is in the United राज्य ; it is प्रयुक्त primarily in cubes ( lardons ) as a कुकिंग ingredient, valued दोनो as a source of मोटे और लिये its स्वाद.
in Italy, this is पुकारा pancetta और is प्रायः पकाया in छोटी घन or परोसा uncooked और thinly sliced as part of an antipasto.
मांस from other animals, ऐसे as बीफ, lamb, मुर्गा, goat, or तुर्कों, may भी be काटें, cured, or वरना prepared to resemble bacon, and may भी be referred to as `` बेकन ''.
Such use is आम in areas साथ significant यहूदी and मुस्लिम populations.
The यूएसडीए defines bacon as `` the cured पेट of a swine carcass '' ; other कटौती और characteristics जरूर be separately योग्य ( e.g., `` smoked pork loin बेकन '' ).
For सुरक्षा, बेकन जरूर be treated to prevent trichinosis, caused by Trichinella, a parasitic roundworm जिससे can be destroyed by heating, जमने, drying, or smoking.
Bacon is विशिष्ट from salt पोर्क और हैम by differences in the brine ( or शुष्क पैकिंग ).
Bacon brine रै added curing ingredients, सबसे notably सोडियम nitrite, और occasionally सोडियम नाइट्रेट or potassium नाइट्रेट ( साल्टपीटर ) ; sodium ascorbate or erythorbate हैं added to accelerate curing और stabilize रंग.
flavorings ऐसे as brown शुगर or मेपल are used for कुछ products.
if प्रयुक्त, sodium polyphosphates are added to improve sliceability and reduce spattering जब the bacon is पण fried.
आज, a brine लिये हैम, but नहीं bacon, शामिल a विशाल राशि of शुगर.
Historically, `` हैम '' और `` बेकन '' referred to different कटौती of मांस that यहूद brined or packed identically, प्रायः साथ in the वही बैरल.
the कर्मचारी रिटायरमेंट आय सुरक्षा Act of 1974 ( erisa ) (, codified in भाग at ) is a संघीय विधि जिससे establishes minimum मानकों लिये पेंशन योजनाएँ in निजी industry and provides for extensive नियम on the federal आय कर effects of ट्रांजेक्शन associated with employee लाभ योजनाएँ.
erisa थी enacted to protect the रूचि of कर्मचारी लाभ योजना भागीदार और their beneficiaries by:
Requiring the disclosure of financial और अन्य information concerning the योजना to beneficiaries ;
establishing मानकों of conduct लिये योजना fiduciaries ;
Providing for उचित remedies and अभिगम to the federal न्यायालयों.
erisa is sometimes प्रयुक्त to refer to the full देह of laws regulating employee benefit योजनाएँ, which हैं मिला mainly in the आतंरिक Revenue Code and erisa itself.
जिम्मेदारी for the निर्वचन and enforcement of erisa is divided among the विभाग of मजदूर, the Department of the राजकोष ( particularly the आतंरिक आय Service ), और the पेंशन Benefit guaranty Corporation.
illegal आव्रजन to the United राज्य is the act of विदेशी नागरिकों प्रवेश the United राज्य, without government अनुमति and in उल्लंघन of United राज्य nationality law, or staying beyond the termination तिथि of a वीज़ा, also in violation of the law.
A चेतावनी sign at the अंतरराष्ट्रीय boundary between the संयुक्त States और कनाडा in पाइंट रॉबर्ट्स, Washington.
a much अलग दृष्टिकोण at the u.s.-mexico किनारा near El पासो, टेक्सास
The undocumented अप्रवासी जनसांख्यिकी of the संयुक्त राज्य in 2008 was अनुमानित by the बीच लिये Immigration Studies to be about 11 लाख people, bas from 12.5 लाख लोगों in 2007.
अन्य estimates range from 7 to 20 million.
according to a 2005 pew हिस्पैनिक Center report, 56 % of undocumented immigrants यहूद from मैक्सिको ; 22 % यहूद इससे other लैटिन अमरीकी countries ; 13 % were इससे Asia ; 6 % यहूद from यूरोपीय and कनाडा ; और 3 % were from Africa and the बाकी of the world.
Alvin स्वतंत्र स्कूल ज़िला is a school district based in एल्विन, टेक्सास ( यूएसए ).
Alvin isd is a large suburban स्कूल ज़िला दक्षिण of ह्यूस्टन in the समुदायों of Alvin, manvel, Pearland, Hillcrest, rosharon, आयोवा Colony, लिवरपूल, और Amsterdam.
AISD serves Pearland city 's rapidly growing पश्चिमी portion of the नगर including the new विशाल master-planned communities of छाया क्रीक ranch, South कांटा, and दक्षिणी Trails.
Alvin ISD कवर of जमीन.
In इंसान anatomy, the ulnar nerve is a nerve जिससे रनों near the ulna अस्थि.
The ulnar collateral स्नायु of कोहनी संयुक्त is in relation with the ulnar तंत्रिका.
the तंत्रिका is the largest unprotected तंत्रिका in the इंसान body ( अर्थ unprotected by मांसपेशी or अस्थि ), so चोट is आम.
This nerve is directly कनेक्ट to the छोटी उंगली, और the सटा हाफ of the ring उंगली, supplying the palmar पक्ष of ये fingers, सहित both front और back of the tips, perhaps as दूर वापस as the fingernail beds.
एक विधि of injuring the nerve is to स्ट्राइक the medial epicondyle of the humerus इससे posteriorly, or inferiorly साथ the कोहनी flexed.
the ulnar nerve is फंस between the अस्थि और the overlying स्किन at this point.
This is commonly referred to as bumping one 's `` funny अस्थि ''.
This name is विचार to be a pun, based on the sound प्रतिरूप between the नाम of the अस्थि of the upper arm, the `` humerus `` और the word `` humorous ``.
alternatively, according to the ऑक्सफोर्ड अंग्रेज़ी Dictionary it may refer to `` the peculiar सनसनी अनुभवी जब it is struck ''.
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft और Wizardry, shortened हॉग्वार्ट्स, is a fictional अंग्रेजों स्कूल of जादू for विद्यार्थी aged ग्यारह to eighteen, और is the प्राथमिक setting for the पहला छह किताबे in j.K. Rowling 's Harry कुम्हार श्रेणी.
रोलिंग has suggested कि वो may have inadvertently लिया the नाम इससे the hogwort plant ( croton capitatus ), जिससे वो था देखी at Kew gardens some समय पहले लिखने the series, हालांकि the names `` The Hogwarts '' and `` Hoggwart '' appear in the 1954 निगेल molesworth book कैसा To be topp by geoffrey Willans.
Hogwarts स्कूल was voted as the 36th best स्कॉटिश educational स्थापना in a 2008 ऑनलाइन ranking, outranking Edinburgh 's Loretto स्कूल.
according to a निदेशक of the स्वतंत्र Schools संजाल Rankings, it थी added to the स्कूलों लिस्टिंग `` for मजा '' और was then voted on.
The u.S. subprime बंधक संकट थी a नियत of कार्यक्रम और शर्तें कि led to a वित्तीय संकट and subsequent मंदी कि began in 2008.
it was characterized by a rise in subprime बंधक delinquencies और foreclosures, और the resulting decline of प्रतिभूति समर्थित by said mortgages.
अनेक प्रमुख वित्तीय संस्थानों collapsed in सितंबर 2008, साथ significant disruption in the flow of credit to businesses और उपभोक्ता और the onset of a severe वैश्विक मंदी.
There were अनेक causes of the संकट, साथ टीकाकारों assigning different स्तर of blame to financial संस्थानों, regulators, credit agencies, government आवास policies, और उपभोक्ता, among अन्य.
a proximate कारण was the वृद्धि in subprime lending.
The प्रतिशत of lower-quality subprime mortgages originated दौरान a given साल rose इससे the ऐतिहासिक 8 % or निम्नतर range to approximately 20 % इससे 2004 to 2006, साथ much उच्चतर ratios in कुछ भाग of the U.S.
a high प्रतिशत of ये subprime mortgages, over 90 % in 2006 लिये example, were adjustable-rate mortgages.
ये two परिवर्तन यहूद भाग of a broader ट्रेंड of lowered lending standards और higher-risk बंधक उत्पाद.
further, u.S. households था become increasingly ऋणी, साथ the अनुपात of कर्ज़ to disposable निजी income उठती इससे 77 % in 1990 to 127 % at the समाप्त of 2007, much of this increase mortgage-related.
When U.S. घर कीमतें declined steeply after peaking in mid-2006, borrowers ' ability to पुनर्वित्त उनके लोन became अधिक मुश्किल.
As adjustable-rate mortgages began to रीसेट at higher ब्याज rates ( causing उच्चतर monthly भुगतान ), बंधक delinquencies soared.
Securities समर्थित साथ mortgages, सहित subprime mortgages, widely held by वित्तीय firms globally, खोया सबसे of their मान.
वैश्विक investors also drastically reduced purchases of mortgage-backed कर्ज़ और अन्य प्रतिभूति as भाग of a decline in the क्षमता और willingness of the निजी वित्तीय system to support lending.
चिंताएं about the soundness of U.S. credit and वित्तीय बाज़ार led to tightening credit around the संसार and slowing आर्थिक विकास in the u.S. और Europe.
the संकट had कठोर, long-lasting consequences for the u.S. और यूरोपीय economies.
the U.S. डाला a गहन मंदी, साथ nearly 9 लाख jobs lost during 2008 और 2009, roughly 6 % of the workforce.
U.S. आवास prices fell nearly 30 % on औसत and the U.S. भण्डार मार्केट fell approximately 50 % by early 2009.
as of जल्दी 2013, the u.S. भण्डार मार्केट था recovered to इसके pre-crisis peak लकिन आवास कीमतें remained निकट their कम पाइंट और बेरोजगारी remained elevated.
Economic विकास remained below pre-crisis स्तर.
Europe भी continued to struggle साथ its own आर्थिक संकट.
कार्ल जंग in 1910.
Myers और Briggs extrapolated उनके mbti सिद्धान्त इससे जंग 's writings in उसके किताब मनोवैज्ञानिक Types.
The myers-briggs प्रकार indicator ( mbti ) मूल्यांकन is a psychometric questionnaire designed to माप मनोवैज्ञानिक वरीयताओं in how people perceive the संसार और मेक निर्णय.
ये वरीयताओं यहूद extrapolated इससे the typological theories प्रस्तावित by कार्ल गुस्ताव जंग and first published in his 1921 book मनोवैज्ञानिक Types ( English edition, 1923 ).
जंग theorized that वहीँ हैं चार principal psychological functions by जिससे we experience the world : सनसनी, अंतर्ज्ञान, feeling, और सोच.
एक of ये चार कृत्यों is प्रबल सबसे of the समय.
the original developers of the personality inventory were katharine Cook Briggs और उसके daughter, इसाबेल Briggs मायर्स ; ये दो, having studied extensively the कार्य of जंग, turned उनके ब्याज of human बर्ताव into a devotion of turning the theory of psychological types to practical उपयोग.
वे began creating the indicator during World युद्ध II, believing कि a knowledge of personality वरीयताओं होता help महिलाओं जो यहूद प्रवेश the औद्योगिक workforce लिये the first time to पहचानो the sort of war-time कार्य कि होता be `` most comfortable और प्रभावी ''.
the आरंभिक questionnaire grew into the myers-briggs प्रकार Indicator, जिससे थी पहला प्रकाशित in 1962.
the mbti focuses on सामान्य populations and emphasizes the मान of naturally occurring मतभेद.
Robert kaplan और डेनिस Saccuzzo मानना `` the underlying assumption of the mbti is कि we all have विशिष्ट preferences in the रास्ता we construe हमारी अनुभवों, और ये वरीयताओं underlie our रूचि, needs, मान, and प्रेरणा '' ( p. 499 ).
`` यहूदा '' is a सोंग by अमरीकी recording कलाकार महिला गागा, इससे उसके दूसरी स्टुडियो album Born इस Way ( 2011 ).
it थी released by Interscope रिकॉर्ड on April 15, 2011, चार दिनों ahead of its अनुसूचित रिलीज.
Written and उत्पादित by Lady गागा and RedOne, `` यहूदा '' is a नृत्य और इलेक्ट्रो house सोंग about a woman in प्रेम साथ a man who betrayed her.
It embodies the incidents कि have haunted गागा in the past, and इसके core meaning refers to the negative भाग of her जीवन that वो ca n't escape.
Gaga has further समझाया कि the song was also परिचय honoring one 's inner अंधेरा in order to bring oneself into the light.
The कलाकृति लिये the single थी designed by Gaga in Microsoft Word.
In spite of a polarizing impact on अनेक धार्मिक groups, the सोंग थी generally well received by आलोचकों, who likened the सोंग to `` ख़राब Romance `` साथ कुछ noting it should have been the album 's lead सिंगल.
The song रै a समान ध्वनि to गागा 's पिछला redone-produced tracks, सहित `` पोकर फेस ``, `` lovegame ``, `` Bad Romance '', और `` alejandro ``.
It contains तीन पृथक hooks और a house -influenced break down.
Gaga explained कि the लाइनों बोला दौरान the विश्लेषण बात परिचय her as परे मोचन, regarding the परंपरागत views of what a स्त्री should be.
`` यहूदा '' initially था a दमदार sales खोलने, but थी कम कामयाब commercially in तुलना to गागा 's previous singles.
the सोंग पहुँचे the शीर्ष टेन of the चार्ट in सबसे प्रमुख म्यूज़िक markets, और भी reached the शीर्ष of the charts in South कोरियाई.
a म्यूज़िक वीडियो for the सोंग थी filmed in April 2011, co-directed by गागा और Laurieann Gibson and co-starring Norman reedus.
it has a biblical storyline जहाँ Reedus निभाई Judas इस्कैरियट और गागा played Mary magdalene.
The वीडियो portrays उन्हें as आधुनिक day प्रचारकों going to Jerusalem.
It शामिल the biblical स्टोरी of यहूदा betraying यीशु, और ended साथ Gaga as magdalene getting stoned to मौत.
Before इसके release, the Catholic लीग condemned गागा लिये the कथित use of religious imagery and उसके भूमिका in the video.
however, आलोचकों generally praised the video, not finding any offensive content.
The वीडियो थी मनोनीत for दो पुरस्कार at the 2011 एमटीवी वीडियो Music Awards.
Gaga has performed `` यहूदा '' on a क्रमांक of टेलीविज़न shows, including the ग्राहम नॉर्टन दिखाएँ, शनिवार रात्रि सजीव, शुभ Morning americas `` Summer Concert श्रेणी '', the French x फ़ैक्टर as well as on the Ellen DeGeneres दिखाएँ.
मारविन gaye ( अप्रैल 2, 1939April 1, 1984 ), born मारविन pentz gay, Jr., was an American singer-songwriter और musician.
gaye helped to आकार the sound of motown रिकॉर्ड in the 1960s with a स्ट्रिंग of हिट्स सहित `` कैसा मीठी It is ( To Be loved by तुम ) `` and `` i सुना it through the grapevine `` और duet रिकार्डिंग साथ Mary कुएं और Tammi Terrell, बाद कमाई the शीर्षक `` Prince of motown '' and `` Prince of आत्मा ''.
दौरान the 1970s, gaye recorded the अवधारणा एल्बम कया 's going on and let 's Get it on and became among the पहला कलाकारों in Motown to break दूर इससे the reins of इसके production कम्पनी.
Gaye 's बाद रिकार्डिंग बहकावे अनेक r & b subgenres such as शांत तूफ़ान and neo-soul.
Following a काल in Europe अंतर्गत a कर निर्वासन in the जल्दी 1980s, Gaye released the 1982 ग्रैमी Award-winning hit `` यौन healing `` और the Midnight प्रेम एल्बम.
Since his death in 1984, gaye has महरूम मरणोपरांत honored by अनेक संस्थानों, including the ग्रैमी Lifetime उपलब्धि पुरस्कार और the Rock and फेंकें Hall of Fame.
the Academy Award for Best Picture is एक of the अकादमी पुरस्कार of मेरिट प्रस्तुत annually by the अकादमी of गति Picture Arts and sciences ( AMPAS ) to निर्माता working in the गति चित्र उद्योग और is the तभी श्रेणी in जिससे every सदस्य is eligible to मनोनीत लिये.
बेहतरीन चित्र is माना the सबसे important of the अकादमी पुरस्कार, as it represents सब the directing, एक्टिंग, म्यूज़िक composing, writing, editing and अन्य प्रयत्न put forth into a फिल्मी.
Consequently, बेहतरीन चित्र is the final पुरस्कार and the निष्कर्ष of the सालाना अकादमी Awards रस्म.
the Grand staircase कालम at the dolby थिएटर in Los Angeles, जहाँ the अकादमी पुरस्कार ceremonies have महरूम आयोजित चूंकि 2002, शोकेस प्रत्येक फिल्मी कि रै won the Best चित्र शीर्षक since the पुरस्कार 's inception 85 सालो पहले.
Heavy बरसात is an interactive drama action-adventure वीडियो game निर्मित by French developer quantic सपना exclusively लिये the प्लेस्टेशन 3.
the खेल is लिखा और निर्देशित by quantic सपना 's संस्थापक और CEO दाउद पिंजरा.
Heavy Rains story is a dramatic thriller modelled after film noir, featuring चार protagonists involved with the रहस्य of the Origami कातिल, a सीरियल कातिल जो उपयोग extended periods of वर्षा to डुबो उसके victims.
ethan मंगल is trying to save उसके son इससे being the अगला शिकार, जबकि investigative journalist मैडिसन Paige, एफबीआई profiler नॉर्मन Jayden, और private detective स्कॉट शेल्बी are प्रत्येक trying to track bas clues to the origami कातिल 's पहचान.
the खिलाड़ी interacts साथ the खेल by performing क्रियाएँ highlighted on स्क्रीन सम्बन्धित to motions on the नियंत्रक, और in कुछ मामले, performing a श्रेणी of जल्दी समय कार्यक्रम during fast-paced action sequences.
The player 's निर्णय और क्रियाएँ दौरान the game होगा affect the narrative.
the प्रमुख characters can be मारे, and निश्चित क्रियाएँ may सीसे to अलग scenes और endings.
a playable डेमो was released on 11 फ़रवरी 2010.
The demo was released prior to इस तिथि for people जो took part in a Four Day चुनौती on 5 February 2010.
a पैच to allow use of the PlayStation Move नियंत्रक to खेल the game was released in सितंबर 2010.
भारी Rain थी critically acclaimed और रै sold over two लाख copies.
it जीती 2010 's खेल of the Year इससे सीएनएन and Gaming संघ, और बेहतरीन PS3 खेल of 2010 by GameSpy and ign.
a modified संस्करण of the खेल थी released titled भारी Rain संस्करण Modifiée exclusively in फ़्रांस, aimed towards a younger audience.
in 2010, the खेल was शामिल in the book 1001 वीडियो खेल तुम Must खेल पहले तुम die.
Total superannuation उद्योग देनदारी : members निधि and reserves ( A $ लाखो ) चूंकि 1988.
सालाना कुल superannuation उद्योग asset विकास 1996-2005.
Superannuation in Australia refers to the arrangements जिससे लोगों मेक in Australia to have निधि available लिये उन्हें in retirement.
In Australia, superannuation arrangements are government-supported and encouraged, और minimum provisions are अनिवार्य लिये कर्मचारी.
लिये example, employers हैं जरूरी to pay a proportion of an employee 's salaries and मजदूरी ( फिलहाल 9 % ) into a superannuation निधि, लकिन people are encouraged to put aside अतिरिक्त निधि into superannuation.
the minimum obligation required by employers is set to बढ़ाएँ to 12 % gradually stepping annually from 2013 to 2020.
an व्यक्तिगत can withdraw funds आउट of a superannuation fund when the person meets one of the शर्तें of रिलीज contained in अनुसूची 1 of the superannuation उद्योग ( Supervision ) Regulations 1994.
This is a सूची of the characters from the अमरीकी comedy-drama टेलीविज़न श्रेणी The Game.
Electoral कॉलेज map प्रर्दशित the results of the 2012 u.S. presidential election.
President बराक ओबामा ( D - il ) जीती the लोकप्रिय vote in 26 states and the ज़िला of Columbia ( denoted in ब्लू ) to capture 332 चुनावी मत.
Former राज्यपाल Mitt romney ( R - ma ) जीती the popular vote in 24 राज्य ( denoted in red ) to कैप्चर 206 चुनावी votes.
cartogram representation of the Electoral College vote लिये the 2012 चुनाव, साथ each वर्गाकार representing एक चुनावी vote.
the United राज्य चुनावी College is the institution that officially elects the President और वाइस अध्यक्ष of the United States प्रत्येक four सालो.
The अध्यक्ष and Vice President हैं नहीं elected सीधे by the voters.
बजाय, they are निर्वाचित by `` निर्वाचक '' जो हैं चुनी by popular vote on a state-by-state आधार.
निर्वाचक हैं apportioned to प्रत्येक राज्य और the District of कोलंबिया, but नहीं to territorial possessions of the United राज्य, ऐसे as Puerto रीको और Guam.
the क्रमांक of निर्वाचक in प्रत्येक राज्य is equal to the क्रमांक of सदस्यों of कॉंग्रेस to जिससे the राज्य is entitled.
the twenty-third Amendment has सदा resulted in the District of कोलंबिया having तीन electors.
वहीँ हैं 538 electors, based on there होने 435 प्रतिनिधि and 100 senators, plus the तीन electors इससे the ज़िला of कोलंबिया.
Electors are pledged to particular presidential और vice presidential candidates, though unpledged electors हैं संभावित.
in सब राज्य, मगर maine और Nebraska, निर्वाचक हैं elected on a `` winner-take-all '' basis.
कि is, सब निर्वाचक pledged to the अध्यक्षीय candidate जो विन्स the सबसे मत in a राज्य become निर्वाचक लिये कि state.
maine and नेब्रास्का उपयोग the `` congressional ज़िला method '', selecting एक elector भीतर each congressional ज़िला by popular vote and selecting the बाकी two electors by a राज्यव्यापी लोकप्रिय vote.
Although no elector is required by federal law to honor a pledge, वहीँ have only महरूम बहुत few अवसरों when an elector voted contrary to a प्रतिज्ञा.
the बारहवीं amendment specifies कैसा a President and Vice अध्यक्ष हैं निर्वाचित और requires प्रत्येक elector to डाल one vote for President और another vote लिये वाइस अध्यक्ष.
Critics argue that the Electoral College is inherently undemocratic और देता झूले राज्य अनुपातहीन influence in electing the President and Vice President.
The चुनावी College gives a न्यूमेरिक लाभ in the चुनाव of the president to the छोटी राज्य, as the न्यूनतम क्रमांक of electors लिये the छोटी states is तीन compared to one लिये the election of प्रतिनिधि.
on the अन्य हाथ, the winner-take-all method of मतदान favors the larger राज्य.
A क्रमांक of संवैधानिक amendments have been प्रस्तावित seeking to alter the Electoral College or बदलें it with a direct लोकप्रिय vote.
Barack Hussein Obama ii ( ; born अगस्त 4, 1961 ) is the 44th और वर्तमान President of the संयुक्त राज्य, the पहला अफ़्रीकी American to थाम the office.
born in Honolulu, Hawaii, Obama is a ग्रैजुएट of कोलंबिया विश्वविद्यालयों और हार्वर्ड विधि स्कूल, जहाँ he थी अध्यक्ष of the हार्वर्ड विधि पुनर्विलोकन.
he थी a community आयोजक in शिकागो पहले कमाई उसके law degree.
he worked as a सिविल अधिकारों attorney in शिकागो और सिखाया संवैधानिक विधि at the विश्वविद्यालयों of शिकागो विधि स्कूल इससे 1992 to 2004.
he परोसा three शर्तें representing the 13th District in the इलिनोइस सीनेट इससे 1997 to 2004, running unsuccessfully for the संयुक्त राज्य House of प्रतिनिधि in 2000.
in 2004, Obama received national ध्यान दौरान उसके अभियान to represent इलिनोइस in the संयुक्त States सीनेट साथ his विजय in the March Democratic पार्टी primary, his keynote address at the लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल सम्मेलन in July, and उसके election to the Senate in नवम्बर.
he began उसके presidential अभियान in 2007, and in 2008, after a बंद प्राथमिक अभियान against हिलेरी rodham Clinton, he won sufficient delegates in the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी primaries to प्राप्त the presidential nomination.
he then पराजित Republican nominee जॉन McCain in the सामान्य election, और थी उदघाटन as अध्यक्ष on January 20, 2009.
Nine months later, ओबामा थी नामित the 2009 नोबेल Peace Prize laureate.
He was re-elected president in नवम्बर 2012, defeating रिपब्लिकन nominee mitt Romney, and was sworn in लिये a दूसरी term on January 20, 2013.
जल्दी in उसके first पद in office, ओबामा signed into law आर्थिक stimulus विधान in जवाब to the ग्रेट Recession in the रूप of the American रिकवरी and reinvestment अधिनियम of 2009 और the कर राहत, Unemployment बीमे reauthorization, और जॉब सृष्टि अधिनियम of 2010.
Other प्रमुख घरेलू initiatives in his presidency include the रोगी सुरक्षा and सस्ती Care Act, प्रायः referred to as `` obamacare '' ; the dodd–frank वॉल गली सुधार and Consumer सुरक्षा Act ; the do n't पूछो, do n't बताना repeal Act of 2010 ; the बजट कंट्रोल अधिनियम of 2011 ; और the American Taxpayer राहत Act of 2012.
in May 2012, he became the first बैठे u.S. अध्यक्ष to सरेआम support same-sex विवाह और in 2013 उसके प्रशासन दायर briefs जिससे urged the Supreme अदालत to नियम in favor of same-sex युगल in दो high-profile मामले.
in foreign नीति, ओबामा ended U.S. military involvement in the इराकी युद्ध, increased troop स्तर in Afghanistan, signed the New प्रारंभ बाहें कंट्रोल सन्धि साथ Russia, ordered u.S. सैन्य भागीदारी in Libya, और ordered the सैन्य आपरेशन that resulted in the मौत of Osama बिन Laden.
The होंडा cbr1100xx सुपर Blackbird थी a होंडा मोटरसाइकिल made इससे 1996 to 2007.
the bike थी विकसित to चुनौती the Kawasaki निंजा zx-11 as the world 's तीव्रतम production motorcycle, और होंडा succeeded साथ a शीर्ष speed of.
दो years later the शीर्षक passed to the suzuki Hayabusa, which reached.
the blackbird is named after the Lockheed sr-71, also a गति record holder.
नमूना view of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य record based on बिंब
Sample view of an electronic स्वास्थ्य रिकार्ड
an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक health रिकार्ड ( EHR ) is an evolving concept पारिभाषित as a systematic collection of electronic health information about individual मरीजों or populations.
it is a रिकार्ड in digital स्वरूप that is theoretically capable of होने साझा across अलग स्वास्थ्य care जमावट.
in कुछ cases इस sharing can occur by रास्ता of network-connected enterprise-wide information प्रणालियों और अन्य सूचना संजाल or exchanges.
ehrs may शामिल a दायरा of data, सहित जनसांख्यिकी, चिकित्सा इतिहास, दवा और allergies, immunization औकात, laboratory परीक्षण results, radiology बिंब, vital लक्षण, personal stats जैसे age और वज़न, and बिलिंग information.
the Mariner up on the mast in a तूफ़ान.
एक of the wood-engraved illustrations by gustave doré.
The rime of the प्राचीन मेरिनर ( originally the Rime of the ancyent Marinere ) is the longest major कविता by the अंग्रेज़ी poet सैमुएल Taylor कॉलरिज, लिखा in 1797–98 and प्रकाशित in 1798 in the पहला संस्करण of Lyrical Ballads.
Modern editions use a later revised संस्करण printed in 1817 कि featured a gloss.
Along साथ अन्य कविताएं in गीतात्मक Ballads, it थी a signal शिफ़्ट to modern काव्य and the शुरूआत of British Romantic साहित्य.
a प्रॉक्सी auto-config ( PAC ) file defines कैसा web browsers और other user agents can automatically choose the उचित प्रॉक्सी सर्वर ( access विधि ) for fetching a दिए url.
a PAC file contains a जावास्क्रिप्ट function “FindProxyForURL ( url, मेजबान ) ”.
इस function returns a string साथ एक or अधिक अभिगम method विशेषताएँ.
ये विशेषताएँ कारण the user agent to use a particular proxy सर्वर or to कनेक्ट सीधे.
अनेक specifications provide a fall-back जब a प्रॉक्सी fails to respond.
The browser fetches इस pac file पहले requesting अन्य यूआरएल.
the URL of the PAC file is either configured manually or determined automatically by the वेब प्रॉक्सी autodiscovery Protocol.
Zendaya कोलमैन ( born सितंबर 1, 1996 ), ज्ञात mononymously as zendaya, is an American actress, singer और dancer.
वो सितारों on the Disney चैनल sitcom Shake It up as रॉकी ब्लू.
वो has स्ट्रक्चर in two films और निभाई एक of the सीसे भूमिकाएँ in the फिल्मी Frenemies as हैली ब्रैंडन.
She voiced फर्न in the Pixie Hollow खेल.
वो appeared in शुभ Luck चार्ली as रॉकी ब्लू and in a शुभ लक Charlie और शेक it Up crossover शीर्षक Charlie Shake It up.
वो appeared on prankstars as herself in the एपीसोड `` Walk the शरारत '' and on A.N.T. फार्म as sequoia जोन्स in the episode `` रचनात्मक सलाहकार. ''
zendaya is भी a संगीतकार.
She हस्ताक्षरित a deal साथ Hollywood रिकॉर्ड on अगस्त 8, 2012 and started recording songs लिये उसके debut एल्बम on अगस्त 12, 2012.
वो released a सिंगल इससे an स्वतंत्र label पुकारा `` swag It आउट `` and another सिंगल साथ Bella thorne पुकारा `` Watch me, '' जिससे is प्रदर्शित on the Break it bas एल्बम.
On कूच 20, 2012, zendaya and बेला Thorne released an एल्बम together पुकारा शेक it Up : सजीव 2 Dance, प्रत्येक have उनके अपना सोंग on it, साथ साथ a mash-up of दोनो songs साथ as one.
On अगस्त 21, 2012, zendaya और बेला thorne released an ep पुकारा शेक it up : बना In जापानी.
zendaya रै a क्रिसमस song पुकारा `` शेक Santa Shake, '' which is on the डिज़्नी चैनल Holiday प्लेलिस्ट CD, which was released on अक्तूबर 2, 2012.
on कूच 5, 2013 the third शेक it Up साउंडट्रैक was released, entitled i < 3 नृत्य ; on it, Zendaya has two गीतों साथ बेला - `` संक्रामक Love '' और `` इस is My Dance मंजिल '' - as well as एक solo सोंग, `` Beat of my ढोल. ''
इस is a list of airports in Pennsylvania ( a u.S. राज्य ), grouped by type और sorted by स्थान.
it contains all public-use और military एयरपोर्ट in the राज्य.
Some private-use and पूर्व एयरपोर्ट may be included where notable, such as airports कि were previously public-use, those साथ commercial enplanements recorded by the faa or airports आबंटित an iata airport कोड.
आईओएस ( previously iphone os ) is a mobile ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली विकसित and वितरित by ठहराना Inc. originally released in 2007 लिये the iphone और iPod टच प्लेटफ़ॉर्म, it रै been extended to support other ठहराना डिवाइस such as the ipad और Apple tv.
नापसंद microsoft 's खिड़कियाँ Phone और google 's एंड्रॉइड, ठहराना करता नहीं अनुज्ञा आईओएस for installation on non-apple हार्डवेयर.
, ठहराना 's app स्टोर contained अधिक than 700,000 iOS अनुप्रयोग, जिससे have collectively been डाउनलोड more than 30 अरब टाइम्स.
it था a 21 % share of the smartphone मोबाईल ऑपरेटिंग system इकाई shipped in the चौथी क्वार्टर of 2012, पीछे only google 's Android.
in जून 2012, it accounted लिये 65 % of mobile वेब आंकड़ा खपत ( सहित use on दोनो the ipod टच and the iPad ).
At the हाफ of 2012, there यहूद 410 लाख डिवाइस activated.
According to the special मीडिया इवेंट आयोजित by ठहराना on September 12, 2012, 400 लाख devices have been sold through June 2012.
The उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस of iOS is आधारित on the अवधारणा of सीधा हेरफेर, using multi-touch gestures.
इंटरफ़ेस control elements consist of sliders, switches, और बटन.
बातचीत साथ the os includes gestures ऐसे as swipe, tap, पिंच, और रिवर्स pinch, all of जिससे have specific परिभाषाएं भीतर the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of the iOS operating प्रणाली and इसके multi-touch इंटरफ़ेस.
आतंरिक accelerometers are प्रयुक्त by कुछ applications to respond to shaking the device ( एक आम result is the undo command ) or rotating it in तीन आयाम ( एक आम result is switching इससे portrait to लैंडस्केप mode ).
iOS is derived from OS x, साथ जिससे it साझा the Darwin न्यास.
आईओएस is Apple 's मोबाईल संस्करण of the os x ऑपरेटिंग system used on Apple कंप्यूटर.
in आईओएस, वहीँ हैं four abstraction layers : the कोर os परत, the Core Services परत, the मीडिया परत, और the Cocoa टच layer.
The current version of the ऑपरेटिंग system ( आईओएस 6.1.3 ) dedicates 1-1.5 gb of the यंत्र 's फ्लैश मेमोरी for the प्रणाली विभाजन, using roughly 800 MB of that partition ( varying by मॉडल ) लिये आईओएस itself.
आईओएस currently runs on iPhone, ipad, iPod touch and Apple TV.
the plymouth superbird is famous लिये इसके अत्यधिक ऊँची पश्च wing.
1987 Audi Sport quattros1 with इसके विशाल wings at pikes शिखर
a बिगाड़ने is an automotive aerodynamic device whose intended design function is to 'spoil ' unfavorable air गति across a देह of a vehicle in motion, प्रायः वर्णित as turbulence or खीचें.
विघ्न on the सामने of a vehicle हैं often पुकारा air dams, क्युकी in addition to directing एयर प्रवाह वे also reduce the amount of air बहती underneath the गाडी which generally reduces aerodynamic लिफ्ट and खीचें.
Spoilers are प्रायः fitted to रेस और high-performance sports गाड़ियाँ, हालांकि they have become common on यात्री vehicles as खूब.
कुछ spoilers हैं added to cars primarily लिये styling उद्देश्य and have either छोटी aerodynamic benefit or even मेक the aerodynamics worse.
Spoilers लिये गाड़ियाँ are प्रायः incorrectly उलझन साथ, or the पद used interchangeably साथ, wings.
ऑटोमोटिव विंग्स are डिवाइस whose intended design is to generate downforce as air गुजरता around उन्हें, not simply disrupt existing airflow पैटर्न.
मारियो, who serves as निन्टेंडो 's शुभंकर, is a fictional अक्षर निर्मित by खेल पंक्तियां शिगेरू Miyamoto और voiced by चार्ल्स Martinet.
इस is a list of video खेल जहाँ the character मारियो plays a भाग, either as the protagonist, antagonist, supporting character, as भाग of an ensemble cast, as a कैमियो, or in a game within a game.
It does नहीं शामिल सरल सन्दर्भ to the अक्षर, such as the portraits of Mario मिला in the लेजेंड of Zelda : a Link to the पास्ट.
The साल indicated is the साल the game थी पहला released, सबसे commonly in Japan ; games यहूद sometimes released years बाद in other regions of the world.
The सूची includes ports, remakes और compilations.
it करता n't शामिल any Virtual कंसोल re-releases.
`` Man of निरंतर Sorrow '' ( भी ज्ञात as `` i Am A man of Constant विषाद '' ) is a परंपरागत अमरीकी folk सोंग पहला अंकित by लंड burnett, a partially अँधा fiddler from केंटकी.
the song was originally अंकित by Burnett as `` विदाई सोंग '' मुद्रित in a रिचर्ड burnett songbook, circa 1913.
an early version थी recorded by emry आर्थर in 1928 ( vocalion Vo 5208 ).
Public ब्याज in the सोंग थी renewed after the रिलीज of the 2000 film o bhai, जहाँ Art Thou ?
, as it plays a central role in the फिल्मी 's प्लाट.
The सोंग थी also शामिल in the फिल्मी 's अत्यधिक कामयाब, multiple-platinum selling साउंडट्रैक.
जोसेफसन जंक्शन array चिप developed by the नेशनल ब्यूरो of Standards as a standard volt
the volt ( प्रतीक : v ) is the SI निकला ईकाई for इलेक्ट्रिक संभावित ( वोल्टेज ), इलेक्ट्रिक संभावित अंतर, और electromotive फ़ोर्स.
the volt is named in सम्मान of the इतालवी physicist alessandro Volta ( 1745–1827 ), who invented the वोल्टायिक pile, संभवतः the पहला chemical बैटरी.
a प्लैक commemorating the location of the साराजेवो हत्या और कदम of gavrilo princip ( image लिया in 1987, पहले कदम were removed in 1992 and plaque बदला इससे cyrillic to Latin स्क्रिप्ट )
a plaque commemorating the location of the साराजेवो assassination ( image taken in 2009 )
on 28 June 1914, archduke फ्रांज Ferdinand of ऑस्ट्रिया, heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian सिंहासन, और उसके बीवी, सोफी, duchess of hohenberg, were शॉट dead in साराजेवो, by gavrilo princip, one of a group of छह Bosnian Serb assassins coordinated by Danilo ilić.
the राजनैतिक objective of the assassination थी to break बंद austria-hungary 's south-slav provinces so वे could be संयुक्त into a Greater सर्बिया or a यूगोस्लाविया.
the assassins ' motives यहूद consistent साथ the गति कि बाद became ज्ञात as Young बोस्निया.
Serbian सैन्य अधिकारियों stood पीछे the attack.
at the शीर्ष of ये सर्बियाई military conspirators was मुख्य of Serbian Military प्रज्ञा Dragutin dimitrijević, उसके righthand man Major Vojislav tankosić, और masterspy Rade malobabić.
प्रमुख tankosić armed the assassins साथ बम और pistols और प्रशिक्षित उन्हें.
The हत्यारे यहूद given अभिगम to the same clandestine टनल of safe-houses and एजेंटों कि Rade malobabić used लिये the घुसपैठ of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary.
the assassins, the key सदस्यों of the clandestine टनल, and the key सर्बियाई सैन्य conspirators जो यहूद still जिंदा were arrested, आजमाया, convicted and punished.
those who were गिरफ्तार in बोस्निया यहूद tried in साराजेवो in October 1914.
The अन्य conspirators यहूद arrested और आजमाया पहले a सर्बियाई कंगारू अदालत on the french-controlled Salonika Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated false आरोप ; Serbia executed तीन of the शीर्ष सैन्य षड्यंत्रकारियों.
much of कया is ज्ञात परिचय the assassinations comes from these दो ट्रायल and related records.
कार्यभार of जिम्मेदारी लिये the bombing and हत्याएं of 28 जून is अत्यधिक विवादास्पद because the आक्रमण led to the outbreak of संसार युद्ध i एक month बाद.
मिशन San जुआन capistrano थी a Spanish मिशन in Southern कैलिफ़ोर्निया, स्तिथ in present-day सैन जुआन Capistrano.
it was founded on सब Saints ' दिन नवम्बर 1, 1776, by Spanish catholics of the franciscan अनुक्रम.
Named for Giovanni da capistrano, a 15th century theologian and `` योद्धा पुजारी '' जो resided in the abruzzo region of Italy, San जुआन capistrano has the भेद of होने home to the oldest building in California still in use, a chapel built in 1782.
Known alternately as `` Serra 's चैपल '' and `` पिता Serra 's गिरिजाघर, '' it is the only extant ढांचा where it has महरूम प्रलेखित कि the padre junipero सेरा celebrated द्रव्यमान.
एक of the बेहतरीन ज्ञात of the Alta California missions ( and एक of the few मिशन to have दरअसल महरूम संस्थापित twice—others होने मिशन सैन Gabriel arcángel और मिशन la purísima concepción ).
the साईट थी originally consecrated on October 30, 1775, by पिता fermín lasuén, लकिन was जल्दी abandoned due to अशांति among the स्वदेशी population in सैन डिएगो.
the success of the उपनिवेश is evident in its historical records.
prior to the आगमन of the missionaries, कुछ 550 natives यहूद बिखरे throughout the local area.
by 1790, the क्रमांक of परिवर्तित Christians had grown to 700, and बस छह सालो बाद nearly 1,000 `` neophytes `` ( recent converts ) lived in or around the Mission यौगिक.
1,649 baptisms were conducted कि year alone, आउट of the कुल 4,639 souls परिवर्तित between 1776 और 1847.
अधिक than 2,000 पूर्व निवासियों ( ज़्यादातर juaneño Indians ) are दफ्न in unmarked क़ब्रों in the मिशन 's कब्रिस्तान ( campo सेंटो ).
The remains of Father ( बाद monsignor ) st. John o'sullivan, who पहचाना the property 's ऐतिहासिक मान और working tirelessly to conserve और rebuild its structures, are दफ्न at the entrance to the cemetery on the west side of the property, and a प्रतिमा उठाया in उसके honor stands at the सिर of the क्रिप्ट.
The surviving chapel भी serves as the final resting प्लेस of तीन padres who passed on while सेवारत at the मिशन : Fathers जोस Barona, Vicente Fustér, और Vicente पास्कुआल oliva are सब entombed beneath the अभयारण्य floor.
the criolla or `` Mission grape, '' was first planted at San जुआन Capistrano in 1779 ; in 1783, the पहला वाइन उत्पादित in alta कैलिफ़ोर्निया emerged from the मिशन 's वाइनरी.
The Mission डाला a long काल of क्रमिक मनाही बाद secularization in 1833.
numerous प्रयत्न यहूद बना over the सालो to restore the Mission to its पूर्व glory, but none met with ग्रेट कामयाबी until the arrival of पिता O'Sullivan in 1910.
बहाली प्रयत्न continue, और `` Serra 's चैपल '' is स्टिल प्रयुक्त लिये धार्मिक सेवाएं.
About half-a-million visitors, सहित 80,000 school children, आइये to the मिशन प्रत्येक साल.
और जबकि the ruins of `` the ग्रेट स्टोन गिरिजाघर '' ( जिससे थी all लकिन leveled by an 1812 भूकंप ) हैं a renowned architectural अचरज, the Mission is शायद best ज्ञात for the सालाना `` वापसी of the Swallows '' which is traditionally observed every March 19 ( संत जोसेफ 's दिन ).
मिशन San जुआन capistrano has served as a पसंदीदा subject लिये अनेक notable artists, और has been immortalized in साहित्य and on फिल्मी numerous टाइम्स, शायद अधिक than कोई अन्य मिशन.
in 1984, a आधुनिक गिरिजाघर जटिल was constructed बस उत्तर और west of the मिशन compound and is now ज्ञात as मिशन Basilica सैन जुआन capistrano.
Today, the मिशन यौगिक serves as a संग्रहालय, with the सेरा Chapel within the यौगिक serving as a चैपल for the मिशन parish.
Better Off मुर्दे is a 1985 American टीन रोमांटिक comedy फिल्मी starring जॉन cusack and written and निर्देशित by जंगली Steve हॉलैंड.
it tells the story of high स्कूल छात्र Lane myer जो is suicidal बाद उसके गर्लफ्रेंड ब्रेक up साथ him.
Mercedes-Benz superdome ( originally louisiana superdome and commonly the Superdome ) is a खेल और प्रदर्शनी स्टेडियम, located in the सेंट्रल कारोबार ज़िला of New ऑरलियन्स, Louisiana, यूएसए.
Plans were drawn up in 1967, by the नई Orleans modernist architectural firm of Curtis और Davis.
इसके steel फ़्रेम covers a expanse.
इसके गुम्बद is बना of a Lamella multi-ringed frame and has a व्यास of, बनाना it the largest फिक्स्ड domed ढांचा in the संसार.
it is घर to the एनएफएल 's नई ऑरलियन्स संतो, the ncaa 's Division I-A tulane Green Wave फ़ुटबॉल टोली ( the largest फ़ुटबॉल स्टेडियम in सम्मेलन यूएसए ), the राज्य फार्म Bayou क्लासिक, the R+L वाहक नई Orleans Bowl, the allstate Sugar कटोरी and, प्रत्येक fourth साल, the bcs नेशनल Championship खेल.
क्युकी of the size और स्थान in one of the प्रमुख tourist गंतव्यों in the United राज्य, the superdome routinely makes the `` छोटी list '' of candidates being माना लिये major sporting कार्यक्रम, ऐसे as the सुपर कटोरी और the Final चार.
In 2005, the Superdome gained अंतरराष्ट्रीय ध्यान of a अलग type जब it housed thousands of लोगों seeking shelter from Hurricane Katrina.
The भवन suffered extensive क्षति as a परिणाम of the तूफ़ान, and थी बंद लिये many महीने afterward.
On अक्तूबर 3, 2011, it थी announced कि जर्मनी automaker mercedes-benz purchased नामकरण अधिकारों to the stadium.
the new name took प्रभाव on October 23, 2011.
It is the तीसरा स्टेडियम कि रै नामकरण अधिकारों इससे mercedes-benz ( and first in the संयुक्त राज्य ), after the Mercedes-Benz एरिना, the स्टेडियम of bundesliga क्लबों vfb stuttgart, in stuttgart, Germany and the mercedes-benz एरिना in Shanghai, चीन.
Lobby of जम्बो हाउस
जिराफ़ on the savannah at जम्बो House
Disney 's Animal किंगडम आवास is an african-themed deluxe resort at the वॉल्ट डिज़्नी World रिज़ॉर्ट.
it खोली on April 16, 2001.
the रिज़ॉर्ट is स्वामित्व और संचालित by वॉल्ट Disney पार्क और रिसॉर्ट.
डिज़्नी 's Animal किंगडम आवास is स्तिथ in the एनिमल Kingdom रिज़ॉर्ट क्षेत्रफल, सटा to डिज़्नी 's एनिमल Kingdom.
It gives अतिथि the अवसर to view चरने वन्यजीव बाहर their rooms and public क्षेत्रों in the रिज़ॉर्ट within निकटता of the animals, conveying the अहसास of being in an African सवाना.
The लोगों 's Party, also ज्ञात as the `` populists '', was a short-lived राजनैतिक पार्टी in the संयुक्त States स्थापित in 1891 during the populist गति ( United States, 19th सदी ).
it was most महत्वपूर्ण in 1892-96, and तब rapidly faded away.
आधारित among poor, श्वेत कपास farmers in the दक्षिण ( विशेषकर उत्तर कैरोलिना, Alabama, और Texas ) और hard-pressed wheat किसानो in the plains states ( especially Kansas and नेब्रास्का ), it represented a कट्टरपंथी crusading form of agrarianism और दुश्मनी to banks, railroads, and elites generally.
it sometimes formed coalitions with मजदूर unions, और in 1896 the डेमोक्रेट endorsed उनके presidential nominee, William जेनिंग्स ब्रायन.
the terms `` populist '' and `` populism `` हैं commonly used लिये anti-elitist appeals in विपक्ष to स्थापित रूचि and mainstream parties.
भाषाई map of सीरियल, कैमरून, और Benin.
चिह्न in English, बाहर the University of लागोस
There हैं hundreds of languages बोला in सीरियल.
the प्रमुख भाषाएं are योरूबा, हौसा, Igbo, Edo, fulfulde, कनूरी, and ibb.
The official भाषा of Nigeria, अंग्रेज़ी, the पूर्व colonial भाषा, थी chosen to facilitate the सांस्कृतिक and linguistic एकता of the country.
अंग्रेज़ी, however, remains an exclusive preserve of the देश 's urban elite, and is नहीं widely spoken in ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों, which comprise तीन quarters of the देशों जनसांख्यिकी.
सीरियल 's linguistic diversity is a microcosm of Africa as a पूरे, encompassing तीन major African languages families : afroasiatic, Nilo-Saharan, and niger–congo.
सीरियल also रै several as-yet unclassified languages, such as cen tuum, जिससे may represent a relic of an even greater diversity prior to the spread of the वर्तमान language परिवारों.
A series of events led to the आक्रमण on पर्ल हार्बर.
War between Japan और the संयुक्त States had been a सम्भावना that each nation 's सैन्य शक्तियां नियोजित लिये since the 1920s, हालांकि रियल tension did नहीं begin जबतक the 1931 invasion of मंचूरिया by Japan.
Over the next दशक, जापानी विस्तारित धीरे into चीन, leading to सब आउट युद्ध between the दो in 1937.
in 1940 जापानी invaded French Indochina in an प्रयत्न to embargo all imports into चीन, सहित युद्ध आपूर्तियाँ खरीदा इससे the U.S.
इस move prompted the United राज्य to embargo सब oil निर्यात, अग्रणी the इम्पीरियल जापानी Navy to अनुमान that it था कम than दो years of bunker oil बाकी and to support the मौजूदा plans to seize आयल संसाधन in the डच East इंडीज.
नियोजन had been underway लिये कुछ समय on an attack on the `` दक्षिणी संसाधन Area '' to add it to the वृहद ईस्ट एशिया co-prosperity गोला कि जापानी envisioned in the Pacific.
The फिलीपीन islands, at कि समय an अमरीकी territory, यहूद also a जापानी target.
the जापानी military concluded that an invasion of the फिलीपीन होता provoke an अमरीकी सैन्य जवाब.
Rather than seize and fortify the आइलैंड्स, and इंतजार लिये the inevitable us counterattack, जापानी 's military नेताओ instead decided on the pre-emptive Pearl Harbor attack, which they assumed होता negate the अमरीकी शक्तियां needed for the मुक्ति और reconquest of the आइलैंड्स.
नियोजन लिये the attack था begun in बहुत early 1941, by Admiral Isoroku यामामोटो.
He आखिरकार won assent from the नवल ऊँची Command by, among अन्य बाते, threatening to इस्तीफा.
The attack थी approved in the गर्मियाँ at an इम्पीरियल सम्मेलन और again at a दूसरी सम्मेलन in the पतन.
Simultaneously over the साल, pilots यहूद प्रशिक्षित, और ships prepared लिये इसके निष्पादन.
प्राधिकार for the आक्रमण was granted at the second Imperial सम्मेलन if a राजनयिक result satisfactory to Japan was नहीं पहुँचे.
बाद फाइनल स्वीकृति by सम्राट हिरोहितो the order to आक्रमण थी जारी at the शुरूआत of दिसम्बर.
A आम दफ्तर stapler
A आम स्कूल stapler
A stapler is a mechanical यंत्र that joins sheets of paper or समान सामग्री by ड्राइविंग a thin metal स्टेपल through the चादरें and folding the ends.
Staplers are widely प्रयुक्त in government, business, कार्यालयों, घरों and स्कूलों.
the word `` stapler '' can actually refer to a क्रमांक of अलग devices of varying uses.
in addition to joining पेपर sheets together, staplers can भी be प्रयुक्त in a सर्जिकल सेटिंग to जुड़ें ऊतक together with सर्जिकल staples to बंद a सर्जिकल घाव ( much in the वही रास्ता as टांके or sutures ).
typically, सबसे staplers हैं used to जुड़ें अनेक sheets of पेपर.
पेपर staplers आइये in दो distinct types : manual और इलेक्ट्रिक.
हस्तचालित staplers are सामान्यतः hand-held, although मॉडल that हैं used जबकि set on a डेस्क or अन्य सतह हैं नहीं uncommon.
Electric staplers मौजूद in a किस्में of अलग डिजाइन and models.
उनके प्राथमिक ऑपरेटिंग फलन is to जुड़ें विशाल numbers of पेपर चादरें साथ in रैपिड उत्तराधिकार.
कुछ इलेक्ट्रिक staplers can join up to 20 चादरें at a समय.
swallowing, ज्ञात scientifically as deglutition, is the प्रक्रम in the इंसान or animal देह कि makes something pass from the मुँह, to the pharynx, और into the esophagus, जबकि shutting the epiglottis.
if this fails और the ऑब्जेक्ट goes through the trachea, तब choking or pulmonary aspiration can occur.
In the इंसान देह it is नियंत्रित by the swallowing reflex.
thaddeus स्टीवंस ( अप्रैल 4, 1792 – August 11, 1868 ), of पेन्सिलवेनिया, थी a leader of the Radical रिपब्लिकन faction of the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी और a fierce opponent of गुलामी.
he was एक of the most influential सदस्यों in the इतिहास of कॉंग्रेस.
as chairman of the powerful House Ways और अर्थात् कमेटी, स्टीवंस, a witty, व्यंग्यात्मक speaker and flamboyant party leader, वर्चस्व the House इससे 1861 जबतक उसके मौत.
He लिखा much of the वित्तीय विधान that सशुल्क लिये the अमरीकी Civil युद्ध.
Stevens and Senator चार्ल्स sumner यहूद the prime नेताओ of the Radical republicans दौरान the war and पुनर्निर्माण era.
scholarly दृश्य of Stevens have swung sharply चूंकि उसके मौत as interpretations of पुनर्निर्माण have changed.
इतिहासकारों of the dunning स्कूल ( 1890s–1940s ) आयोजित Stevens जिम्मेदार लिये demanding हर्ष उपचार of the white दक्षिण और violating American परंपराओं of republicanism, depicting Stevens as a villain लिये his वकालत of हर्ष measures in the South ऐसे as disfranchising all ex-Confederates.
इस अत्यधिक ऋणात्मक characterization आयोजित sway into the 1950s.
the rise of the neo-abolitionist school in the 1950s led to a strong धनात्मक सराहना of स्टीवंस ' कार्य on सिविल अधिकारों for Freedmen.
a recent biographer characterizes उसे as, `` the Great commoner, savior of free पब्लिक education in Pennsylvania, नेशनल रिपब्लिकन नेता in the struggles against slavery in the संयुक्त राज्य and intrepid mainstay of the attempt to secure racial इंसाफ for the freedmen दौरान Reconstruction, the तभी सदस्य of the हाउस of Representatives कभी to have been known as the 'dictator ' of कॉंग्रेस. ''
अवलोकन of the translation of eukaryotic मेसेंजर RNA
Diagram प्रर्दशित the अनुवाद of mrna and the संश्लेषण of प्रोटीन by a राइबोसोम
in आणविक जीवविज्ञान and आनुवंशिकी, अनुवाद is the प्रक्रम through which cellular ribosomes manufacture प्रोटीन.
it is part of the प्रक्रम of जीन expression.
In अनुवाद, messenger rna ( mrna ) produced by ट्रांसक्रिप्शन is decoded by the राइबोसोम to उपज a specific amino acid chain, or polypeptide, that होगा later fold into an क्रियाशील प्रोटीन.
In bacteria, अनुवाद occurs in the cell 's कोशिकाद्रव्य, जहाँ the large and छोटी subunits of the राइबोसोम हैं located, और bind to the mrna.
in eukaryotes, अनुवाद occurs across the membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum in a प्रक्रम पुकारा vectorial संश्लेषण.
the ribosome facilitates डिकोडिंग by inducing the binding of tRNAs with complementary anticodon sequences to कि of the mRNA.
The tRNAs carry विशिष्ट अमीनो acids कि are chained साथ into a polypeptide as the mrna गुजरता through and is `` पढ़ा '' by the राइबोसोम in a फ़ैशन reminiscent to that of a stock टिकर और टिकर टेप.
in अनेक उदाहरण, the संपूर्ण ribosome/mrna जटिल बांधता to the बाहरी झिल्ली of the अशिष्ट endoplasmic reticulum और रिलीज the nascent प्रोटीन polypeptide inside लिये later vesicle transport and secretion outside of the कोशिका.
Many types of transcribed rna, ऐसे as transfer rna, ribosomal RNA, और छोटी nuclear rna, do नहीं undergo अनुवाद into प्रोटीन.
Translation proceeds in चार phases : दीक्षा, elongation, translocation and termination ( all describing the growth of the अमीनो acid chain, or polypeptide कि is the product of अनुवाद ).
Amino acids are brought to ribosomes और समवेत into प्रोटीन.
in सक्रियण, the सही amino एसिड is covalently bonded to the सही transfer rna ( tRNA ).
the अमीनो एसिड is joined by इसके carboxyl group to the 3 ' OH of the trna by an ester बंध.
When the trna has an amino acid linked to it, it is termed `` चार्ज ''.
दीक्षा involves the small subunit of the ribosome binding to the 5 ' समाप्त of mrna साथ the help of दीक्षा कारकों ( if ).
termination of the polypeptide happens when the A site of the राइबोसोम faces a रोकें codon ( UAA, uag, or uga ).
no trna can recognize or bind to this codon.
Instead, the रोकें codon induces the binding of a release factor protein that prompts the disassembly of the संपूर्ण ribosome/mrna जटिल.
a क्रमांक of एंटीबायोटिक अधिनियम by inhibiting translation ; these include anisomycin, cycloheximide, chloramphenicol, tetracycline, streptomycin, erythromycin, and puromycin, among अन्य.
Prokaryotic ribosomes have a अलग structure इससे that of eukaryotic ribosomes, और यूँ एंटीबायोटिक can specifically निशाना बैक्टीरियल infections without any detriment to a eukaryotic host 's cells.
a multimedia संदेश on a मोबाईल फोन.
मल्टीमीडिया messaging सेवा ( MMS ) is a मानक रास्ता to भेजें संदेश that शामिल मल्टीमीडिया सामग्री to and from mobile फोन.
it extends the core sms ( छोटी संदेश सेवा ) capability that अनुमत एक्सचेंज of टेक्स्ट संदेश only up to 160 वर्ण in लंबाई.
the सबसे popular उपयोग is to भेजें photographs इससे camera-equipped handsets, although it is भी लोकप्रिय as a method of delivering न्यूज और entertainment content सहित videos, pictures, text पृष्ठों और ringtones.
The मानक is developed by the खोलें Mobile Alliance ( ओमो ), although दौरान विकास it was part of the 3gpp और वैप समूह.
smallpox थी an संक्रामक disease अद्वितीय to इंसानो, caused by either of दो वायरस variants, variola major and variola नाबालिग.
The बीमारी is भी ज्ञात by the लैटिन names variola or variola वीरा, निकला इससे varius ( `` spotted '' ) or varus ( `` मुंहासे '' ).
The बीमारी was originally ज्ञात in English as the `` pox '' or `` red प्लेग '' ; the पद `` smallpox '' was पहला प्रयुक्त in Britain in the 15th century to फर्क variola from the `` ग्रेट pox '' ( उपदंश ).
the पिछला naturally occurring case of smallpox ( variola minor ) थी diagnosed on 26 October 1977.
smallpox localized in छोटी रक्त बरतन of the स्किन and in the mouth और गला.
in the स्किन it resulted in a characteristic maculopapular खाज and, बाद, उठाया fluid-filled फफोले.
V. प्रमुख produces a अधिक serious disease और रै an overall mortality rate of 30–35 %.
V. minor causes a milder रूप of बीमारी ( भी known as alastrim, cottonpox, milkpox, whitepox, और Cuban खुजली ) which मारता परिचय 1 % of इसके victims.
long-term complications of V. प्रमुख संक्रमण शामिल characteristic scars, commonly on the फेस, जिससे occur in 65–85 % of survivors.
दृष्टिहीनता resulting from corneal ulceration and scarring, और limb deformities due to गठिया and osteomyelitis are कम आम जटिलताओं, देखी in परिचय 2–5 % of cases.
Smallpox is believed to have emerged in इंसान populations about 10,000 BC.
the earliest शारीरिक evidence of it is संभवतः the pustular rash on the mummified body of pharaoh Ramses v of Egypt.
the disease मारे an अनुमानित 400,000 Europeans annually दौरान the closing years of the 18th century ( including पाँच reigning monarchs ), और was जिम्मेदार लिये a third of all दृष्टिहीनता.
Of सब those infected, 20–60 % —and over 80 % of infected children—died from the बीमारी.
Smallpox थी responsible लिये an estimated 300–500 million deaths दौरान the 20th सदी.
as recently as 1967, the World स्वास्थ्य संगठन ( जो ) अनुमानित कि 15 million लोगों contracted the बीमारी और कि two million died in कि साल.
बाद टीकाकरण campaigns throughout the 19th और 20th centuries, the जो certified the eradication of smallpox in 1979.
smallpox is एक of two संक्रामक रोगों to have महरूम eradicated, the other होने rinderpest, जिससे was declared eradicated in 2011.
`` I want to थाम Your Hand '' is a song by the अंग्रेज़ी चट्टान बैंड the बीटल्स.
Written by John Lennon और पॉल McCartney, and अंकित in अक्तूबर 1963, it थी the first बीटल्स रिकार्ड to be बना using four-track उपकरण.
With अग्रिम आदेश exceeding एक million copies in the संयुक्त किंगडम, `` i Want to Hold अपना Hand '' होता ordinarily have gone straight to the शीर्ष of the British रिकार्ड चार्ट on its दिन of रिलीज ( 29 November 1963 ) था it नहीं महरूम blocked by the समूह 's पहला लाख विक्रेता `` वो loves तुम ``, the Beatles ' previous uk single, which was having a resurgent spell in the शीर्ष स्थिति following तीव्र मीडिया coverage of the समूह.
लेने दो सप्ताह to dislodge its पूर्ववर्ती, `` I want to Hold Your हाथ '' stayed at क्रमांक एक लिये five weeks और remained in the uk शीर्ष पचास लिये twenty-one सप्ताह in total.
it थी भी the समूह 's पहला अमरीकी क्रमांक one, प्रवेश the Billboard Hot 100 चार्ट on 18 January 1964 at क्रमांक forty-five और starting the British invasion of the American म्यूज़िक industry.
by 1 फ़रवरी it आयोजित the number एक spot — for सात सप्ताह — पहले होने replaced by `` वो loves You '', a reverse परिदृश्य of कया had occurred in Britain, और remained in the us चार्ट for a कुल of पंद्रह weeks.
`` I Want to थाम Your Hand '' became the बीटल्स ' best-selling सिंगल विश्वव्यापी.
a gasser थी a प्रकार of hot rod originating on the dragstrips of the संयुक्त States in the late 1950s और continued until the early 1970s.
gassers यहूद आधारित on उत्पादन models इससे the 1930s to mid-1960s, which have महरूम stripped of extraneous वज़न और jacked up using a truck बीम धुरी to provide बेहतर weight वितरण on त्वरण ( बीम axles are also lighter than an independent सामने बर्खास्तगी ), हालांकि a raised भण्डार front बर्खास्तगी is आम as well.
आम वज़न कटौती techniques शामिल fiberglass देह panels, stripped इंटीरियर्स और plexiglass खिड़कियाँ ( sometimes रंग tinted ).
क्युकी वे were primarily निर्मित for रेसिंग, ये cars typically था the इंजन swapped to a larger or more शक्तिशाली one, the मौजूदा stock engine modified ( often heavily ) or both.
it was बहुत आम to fit a Roots supercharger और mechanical ईंधन इंजेक्शन, such as एक from algon, hilborn, or crower.
With form being लिखवाई by function, their appearance is प्रायः very top heavy and ungainly, largely due to front ends being उठाया higher than भण्डार, to assist in the weight ट्रांसफ़र दौरान रैपिड acceleration ( रेसिंग ).
having their exhaust pipes निकास through the front फेंडर खूब is a आम characteristic of gassers, as is having लाशें चित्रित in flamboyant metalflakes, मोती, and candy finishes complemented by lettering in wild फ़ॉन्ट्स.
the नाम arose because वे competed in a gasoline -fueled खीचें रेसिंग class, rather than एक using methanol or nitromethane.
The gasser is the पूर्ववर्ती of the modern मजेदार car.
twelve-lead EKG of a 26-year-old male
electrocardiography ( ECG or EKG from ) is a transthoracic ( आरपार the वक्ष or छाती ) निर्वचन of the विद्युत activity of the दिल over a काल of समय, as detected by electrodes attached to the सतह of the स्किन और recorded by a यंत्र बाह्य to the देह.
the रिकॉर्डिंग produced by इस noninvasive procedure is termed an electrocardiogram ( भी ईसीजी or ईकेजी ).
An ECG is प्रयुक्त to माप the rate and नियमितता of heartbeats, as खूब as the size और स्थिति of the कक्षों, the उपस्थिति of कोई क्षति to the heart, and the प्रभाव of दवाएँ or डिवाइस used to विनियमित the दिल, ऐसे as a pacemaker.
सबसे ECGs हैं performed for diagnostic or शोध purposes on इंसान दिल, लकिन may भी be performed on animals, प्रायः लिये diagnosis of heart abnormalities or शोध.
डोनाल्ड John ट्रम्प, Sr. ( born जून 14, 1946 ) is an अमरीकी business महारथी, टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व और author.
he is the अध्यक्ष और president of the ट्रम्प संगठन and the founder of Trump Entertainment रिसॉर्ट.
Trump 's extravagant lifestyle, outspoken manner, and role on the एनबीसी वास्तविकता दिखाएँ the प्रशिक्षु have बना him a well-known हस्ती who थी no. 14 on the 2012 Forbes Celebrity 100 list.
Trump is the बेटे of Fred Trump, a धनवान New यॉर्क नगर real-estate developer.
he worked for his father 's firm, Elizabeth ट्रम्प & बेटे, while attending the Wharton School of the University of पेन्सिलवेनिया, और in 1968 officially joined the company.
he was दिए control of the company in 1971 और renamed it the Trump संगठन.
in 2010, Trump expressed an ब्याज in बनने a प्रत्याशी लिये अध्यक्ष of the United States in the 2012 election, though in may 2011, he घोषित he होता not be a प्रत्याशी.
In December 2011, ट्रम्प was सुझाया as a संभावित vice presidential selection by मिशेल bachmann, if वो were to win the Republican nomination.
`` A Change Is Gon na Come '' is a 1964 सिंगल by r & B singer-songwriter sam cooke, लिखा और first recorded in 1963 and released under the आरसीए विक्टर label shortly after his death in late 1964.
हालांकि only a modest hit लिये Cooke in तुलना साथ उसके previous singles, the सोंग came to exemplify the 1960s ' सिविल अधिकारों गति.
The सोंग has gained in popularity and नाजुक acclaim in the दशकों चूंकि its रिलीज, और is # 12 on Rolling स्टोन 's 500 महानतम गीतों of सब Time.
भाप उठती इससे the nesjavellir Geothermal शक्ति स्टेशन in आइसलैंड.
geothermal उर्जा is thermal उर्जा उत्पन्न और stored in the धरती.
Thermal उर्जा is the उर्जा कि determines the तापमान of matter.
The geothermal उर्जा of the Earth 's क्रस्ट originates इससे the असली formation of the planet ( 20 % ) और इससे रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय of minerals ( 80 % ).
The geothermal gradient, which is the अंतर in तापमान between the core of the planet और its सतह, ड्राइव a continuous conduction of thermal उर्जा in the form of ऊष्मा from the कोर to the surface.
the क्रियाशील geothermal originates from the यूनानी जड़ें γη ( ge ), meaning earth, और θερμος ( thermos ), meaning hot.
at the core of the Earth, थर्मल उर्जा is created by radioactive decay और temperatures may पहुँचें over 5000 °c ( 9,000 °F ).
ऊष्मा conducts इससे the कोर to surrounding cooler rock.
the high तापमान और pressure कारण कुछ rock to melt, बनाना magma संवहन upward since it is हल्का than the solid rock.
the magma heats rock and जल in the क्रस्ट, sometimes up to 370 °c ( 700 °f ).
इससे hot स्रोतों, geothermal उर्जा has महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये स्नान चूंकि Paleolithic times and लिये space हीटिंग since प्राचीन रोमन times, लकिन it is now बेहतर known लिये विद्युत generation.
Worldwide, about 10,715 megawatts ( mw ) of geothermal power is ऑनलाइन in 24 देशों.
an अतिरिक्त 28 gigawatts of सीधा geothermal heating क्षमता is installed लिये district हीटिंग, स्पेस हीटिंग, spas, औद्योगिक processes, desalination और agricultural applications.
Geothermal शक्ति is लागत प्रभावी, विश्वसनीय, sustainable, और environmentally दोस्ताना, लकिन रै historically been सीमित to areas निकट tectonic थाली सीमाएँ.
Recent technological advances have dramatically expanded the दायरा and आकार of सुगठित संसाधन, विशेषकर for applications such as home हीटिंग, opening a संभावित लिये widespread शोषण.
geothermal wells रिलीज ग्रीनहाउस gases trapped deep भीतर the earth, but ये emissions are much निम्नतर प्रति उर्जा ईकाई than those of fossil fuels.
as a परिणाम, geothermal शक्ति has the potential to सहायता mitigate वैश्विक वार्मिंग if widely तैनात in प्लेस of चट्टान fuels.
the धरती 's geothermal संसाधन are theoretically अधिक than पर्याप्त to सप्लाई मानवता 's energy needs, लकिन तभी a बहुत small भिन्न may be profitably exploited.
खुदाई और exploration लिये गहन resources is very महंगी.
forecasts लिये the future of geothermal शक्ति निर्भर on assumptions about technology, उर्जा prices, subsidies, और interest rates.
Pilot कार्यक्रम like EWEB 's ग्राहक opt in ग्रीन Power Program show कि ग्राहक would be willing to pay a little अधिक लिये a renewable उर्जा सोर्स like geothermal.
But as a result of सरकारी assisted research and उद्योग अनुभव, the cost of generating geothermal शक्ति has decreased by 25 % over the पास्ट दो decades.
In 2001, geothermal उर्जा लागत between दो और ten cents प्रति सम्पात.
Ownership of प्रॉपर्टी may be निजी, सामूहिक, or common and the प्रॉपर्टी may be वस्तुएँ, land/real एस्टेट, or intellectual property.
determining ownership in विधि involves determining who रै निश्चित अधिकारों and duties over the property.
These अधिकारों और duties, sometimes पुकारा a 'bundle of rights ', can be separated और held by different parties.
The सवाल of स्वामित्व पहुँच वापस to the प्राचीन philosophers, प्लेटो and अरस्तू, जो held अलग राय on the subject.
प्लेटो ( 428/427 BC – 348/347 BC ) thought private property created divisive inequalities, while अरस्तू ( 384 bc – 322 bc ) विचार निजी प्रॉपर्टी enabled लोगों to प्राप्त the पूरा benefit of their मजदूर.
निजी property can circumvent कया is अभी referred to as the “ tragedy of the कॉमन्स ” प्रॉब्लम, where people tend to degrade आम property more than they do निजी प्रॉपर्टी.
Given a short-sighted मालिक, however, a निजी प्रॉपर्टी system can मेक ये tragedies worse—for उदाहरण, a निजी मालिक of a टुकड़ा of oil-rich प्रॉपर्टी, depending on उसके worldview, might be more दिलचस्पी in short-term वित्तीय लाभ than वृद्धिशील use with an नजर toward अन्य 's चिंताएं ( e.g., those of भविष्य generations, the disenfranchised, इत्यादि. ).
While Aristotle जायज the अस्तित्व of private स्वामित्व, he बाएँ खोलें questions of ( 1 ) how to allocate property between what is private और common and ( 2 ) how to allocate the निजी property भीतर समाज.
Over the millennia, और आरपार संस्कृतियों what can be प्रॉपर्टी और कैसा it is regarded culturally have varied widely.
स्वामित्व is the basis लिये अनेक other अवधारणाओं that रूप the foundations of प्राचीन and आधुनिक societies ऐसे as धन, व्यापार, debt, दिवालियापन, the criminality of चोरी, और private vs. public property.
स्वामित्व is the key building ब्लाक in the विकास of the पूंजीवादी socio-economic प्रणाली.
Adam स्मिथ stated that one of the पवित्र कानून of इंसाफ थी to guard a person 's प्रॉपर्टी और possessions.
The प्रक्रम और यांत्रिकी of स्वामित्व are fairly जटिल : एक can gain, transfer and खोना स्वामित्व of property in a क्रमांक of ways.
To acquire property एक can खरीदें it with money, व्यापार it लिये other प्रॉपर्टी, receive it as a gift, चोरी it, find it, make, it or होमस्टीड it.
One can transfer or lose ownership of property by selling it लिये धन, exchanging it लिये अन्य प्रॉपर्टी, giving it as a तोहफा, होने robbed of it, it, or having it stripped इससे one 's स्वामित्व through विधिक means such as eviction, foreclosure, seizure, or लेने.
स्वामित्व is self-propagating in that the मालिक of कोई property होगा भी अपना the economic benefits of कि प्रॉपर्टी.
`` What 's my Name ? '' is a सोंग अंकित by barbadian recording कलाकार रिहाना, for उसके पांचवां स्टुडियो एल्बम Loud ( 2010 ).
Featuring guest vocals from कनाडाई rapper ड्रेक, the सोंग was released as the second single इससे Loud on अक्तूबर 29, 2010 through Def Jam Recordings.
the r & b सोंग थी produced by the नॉर्वेजियाई production duo StarGate, and थी written by the duo साथ with ester डीन, Traci hale, and ड्रेक.
Lyrically, it incorporates विषयवस्तु of sexual मैथुन और romance.
Music आलोचकों gave the song positive reviews, citing it कुछ of Rihanna 's best vocal कार्य to तिथि ; वहीँ was a तारीफ़ regarding its romantic nature, as खूब as इसके sexual टोन.
`` What 's My नाम ? '' was a commercial success और अव्वल the US बिलबोर्ड hot 100 chart, giving रिहाना उसके तीसरा number-one सिंगल in 2010, as खूब as her आठवीं overall on the chart.
the song also अव्वल the charts in Hungary और the संयुक्त किंगडम और reached the top पाँच in कनाडा, Ireland, New Zealand, Norway and स्लोवाक.
The सोंग received a नामांकन at the 54th ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये Best Rap/Sung सहयोग.
an accompanying music वीडियो, directed by Philip andelman, portrays a romantic एनकाउंटर between रिहाना and Drake in a किराना स्टोर along साथ रोमांटिक दृश्यों between the जोड़ी और रिहाना walking through मैनहटन 's निम्नतर ईस्ट Side.
`` कया 's my नाम ? '' थी प्रचारित साथ live प्रदर्शन आरपार दोनो sides of the Atlantic, including शनिवार रात्रि सजीव in America और the series सात finale of the X फ़ैक्टर in the United किंगडम.
The latter performance resulted in an investigation इससे the country 's मीडिया नियामक, ofcom, लिये the raunchy प्रकृति of रिहाना 's पहनावा.
a गणितीय constant is a खास number, usually a real number, that is `` significantly interesting in some way ''.
स्थिरांक arise in अनेक अलग क्षेत्रों of गणित, साथ स्थिरांक such as e ( गणितीय constant ) | and pi| occurring in ऐसे विविध contexts as भूगोल, क्रमांक theory और कलन.
What it means लिये a निरंतर to उठता `` naturally '', and कया makes a constant `` interesting '', is ultimately a पदार्थ of taste, और कुछ गणितीय constants are notable अधिक लिये historical कारण than लिये their मूलभूत गणितीय ब्याज.
the अधिक popular constants have been studied throughout the ages और computed to अनेक दशमलव places.
सब गणितीय constants हैं definable संख्याएँ और प्रायः हैं also computable numbers ( chaitin 's निरंतर होने a significant exception ).
चुनावों to the United राज्य सीनेट यहूद held on November 2, 2010, for 37 of the संयुक्त States सीनेट 's 100 सीटे.
( a special election on January 19, 2010 in मैसाचुसेट्स थी आयोजित पहले in the year. )
Thirty-four of the सीटे यहूद लिये six-year शर्तें to the सीनेट 's `` क्लास तीन '', और तीन यहूद खास चुनावों लिये shorter शर्तें.
of the 37 चुनावों, 19 featured लाज़िम Democrats ( 7 of whom रिटायर्ड or were पराजित in the प्राथमिक ) और 18 featured incumbent republicans ( आठ of जिसको retired or were पराजित in the प्राथमिक ).
After the previous चुनावों ( in 2008 ), the संयुक्त राज्य Senate थी composed of 58 डेमोक्रेट, 40 republicans, and 2 independents जो caucus साथ the डेमोक्रेट.
Republicans जीती four seats आयोजित by retiring डेमोक्रेट और Republicans पराजित two लाज़िम डेमोक्रेट.
इस थी the largest number of republicans gains चूंकि the 1994 चुनावों and also the पहला time चूंकि कि चुनाव that Republicans सफलतापूर्वक defended सब of their अपना seats.
इस थी the fourth लगातार election of `` क्लास 3 '' सीनेटरों जहाँ Democrats have failed to लाभ सीटे and the तीसरा consecutive mid-term चुनाव आयोजित in a अध्यक्ष 's first term जहाँ republicans have picked-up सीटे.
despite ये रिपब्लिकन विन्स, however, the डेमोक्रेट retained a majority of the सीनेट साथ 51 सीटे प्लस 2 independents who caucus साथ them, compared to the 47 Republicans.
a संक्रांति is an खगोलीय event कि occurs twice each साल as the सूर्य पहुँच its उच्चतम or न्यूनतम excursion relative to the celestial equator on the celestial sphere.
As a परिणाम, on the day of the संक्रांति, the सूर्य appears to have पहुँचे इसके उच्चतम or lowest सालाना ऊँचाई in the आसमान above the क्षितिज at लोकल सौर नून.
The word solstice is निकला इससे the लैटिन sol ( sun ) और sistere ( to stand स्टिल ), because at the solstices, the Sun stands स्टिल in declination ; कि is, the मौसमी गति of the Sun 's पाथ ( as seen इससे धरती ) comes to a रोकें पहले reversing direction.
The solstices, साथ साथ the equinoxes, are कनेक्ट with the सीज़न.
in अनेक cultures the solstices mark either the शुरूआत or the midpoint of शीत और summer.
the पद संक्रांति can भी be used in a broader sense, as the तिथि ( day ) when this occurs.
The day of the संक्रांति is either the longest दिन of the साल ( in summer ) or the shortest day of the साल ( in शीत ) लिये कोई प्लेस बाहर of the ऊष्णकटिबन्ध.
जेरी Lee लुईस ( born सितंबर 29, 1935 ) is an American rock and roll और देश म्यूज़िक singer-songwriter और pianist.
he is known by the nickname `` the कातिल '' और is प्रायः viewed as “rock & फेंकें 's पहला great जंगली man”.
An early pioneer of चट्टान and roll music, in 1956 Lewis made उसके पहला रिकार्डिंग at Sun Records.
`` Crazy बाहें `` sold 300,000 नक़ल in the दक्षिण, लकिन it थी उसके 1957 hit `` पूरे lotta Shakin ' Going On `` कि shot लुईस to fame विश्वव्यापी.
Lewis followed इस in कि वही साल जब he अंकित songs such as `` ग्रेट Balls of Fire ``, `` breathless `` और `` ऊँची School गोपनीय ``.
लुईस sold अधिक records than Elvis Presley at this समय.
However, Lewis ' rock 'n ' roll करियर faltered in the वेक of his marriage to his young cousin.
He had छोटी success in the charts following the कांड और उसके popularity जल्दी faded.
उसके सजीव प्रदर्शन शुल्क plummeted इससे $ 10,000 प्रति night to $ 250.
In the meantime he थी संकल्पित to gain back some of his popularity.
During the जल्दी 60’s he did n't have much चार्ट कामयाबी with few exceptions ऐसे as `` कया 'd i Say ``.
His सजीव performances at this समय यहूद increasingly जंगली और ऊर्जावान.
उसके एल्बम Live at the Star क्लबों, हैम्बर्ग इससे 1964 is प्रायः regarded by अनेक music पत्रकारों and fans as one of the wildest and महानतम rock और roll कॉन्सर्ट एल्बम कभी.
बाद रिकॉर्डिंग गीतों ऐसे as `` i 'm on आग '' लिये अनेक years साथ छोटी success, in 1968 Lewis made a परिवर्तन into country म्यूज़िक और had हिट्स साथ songs ऐसे as `` another प्लेस, another Time ''.
इस reignited his career और throughout the लेट '60s and '70s he regularly topped the country-western चार्ट.
उसके # 1 देश हिट्स शामिल `` To मेक Love मीठी लिये तुम ``, `` There Must Be More to प्रेम than This ``, `` Would You लो another मौका on me `` and `` Me और Bobby McGee ``.
लुईस 's successes जारी throughout the decade और he embraced his चट्टान 'n ' roll पास्ट साथ गीतों ऐसे as a कवर of the बिग bopper 's `` chantilly फीता `` and `` Rockin ' My जीवन दूर ``.
In the 21st सदी Lewis continues to दौरे to ऑडियंस around the संसार and still रिलीज नई एल्बम.
एक ऐसे एल्बम, titled पिछला man खड़ा, is उसके बेहतरीन selling to तिथि at over a लाख नक़ल sold worldwide.
This थी followed by औसत Old man which रै प्राप्त कुछ of the best बिक्री of lewis’s करियर.
लुईस has had a दर्जन gold records in दोनो चट्टान और देश, won several ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, including a Lifetime Achievement पुरस्कार.
Lewis थी inducted into the चट्टान और फेंकें हॉल of Fame in 1986, and his pioneering contribution to the genre रै महरूम पहचाना by the rockabilly हॉल of Fame.
in 1989, उसके जीवन थी chronicled in the फिल्म ग्रेट Balls of आग, अभिनीत डेनिस Quaid.
In 2003, Rolling स्टोन पत्रिका सूचीबद्ध उसके बक्सा नियत सब Killer, No फिलर : The Anthology number 242 on उनके list of `` 500 महानतम albums of all time ``.
in 2004, वे ranked उसे number 24 on उनके list of the 100 महानतम Artists of सब समय.
लुईस is the पिछला surviving सदस्य of Sun रिकॉर्ड ' लाख Dollar quartet and the क्लास of '55 एल्बम, जिससे भी included Johnny Cash, कार्ल perkins, Roy orbison and Elvis प्रेस्ली.
Henry लुई स्टीफंस, बेनाम watercolor ( 1863 ) of a man reading a newspaper with headline `` Presidential उदघोषणा / गुलामी ''.
The Emancipation Proclamation was an order issued to all segments of the कार्यपालिका branch ( सहित the Army और Navy ) of the United States by अध्यक्ष अब्राहम lincoln on जनवरी 1, 1863, दौरान the अमरीकी Civil War.
it थी आधारित on the president 's संवैधानिक authority as कमांडर in chief of the armed शक्तियां ; it was not a law passed by Congress.
It proclaimed सब those enslaved in confederate territory to be forever free, और ordered the फौज ( और all segments of the कार्यपालिका शाखा ) to दावत as free all those enslaved in ten राज्य that were स्टिल in विद्रोह, यूँ applying to 3.1 लाख of the 4 million स्लेव in the U.S.
the उदघोषणा could not be enforced in areas स्टिल under rebellion, लकिन as the army took कंट्रोल of confederate regions, the स्लेव in those regions यहूद emancipated rather than लौटे to their मास्टर्स.
इससे 20,000 to 50,000 पूर्व स्लेव in regions where विद्रोह था already been subdued यहूद तत्काल emancipated, और over 3 लाख अधिक यहूद emancipated as the संघ army advanced.
The उदघोषणा did not लागू to the पाँच स्लेव states कि यहूद नहीं in विद्रोह, nor to most regions already controlled by the संघ फौज ; emancipation वहीँ would आइये बाद पृथक राज्य क्रियाएँ and/or the दिसम्बर 1865 ratification of the तेरहवीं amendment, जिससे made slavery illegal everywhere in the U.S.
the उदघोषणा did not compensate the owners, did not itself गैरकानूनी गुलामी, और did not मेक the ex-slaves ( called freedmen ) citizens.
It बना the eradication of गुलामी an सुस्पष्ट war लक्ष्य, in addition to the लक्ष्य of reuniting the संघ.
on सितंबर 22, 1862, lincoln had issued a preliminary उदघोषणा कि he would order the emancipation of सब slaves in कोई state of the Confederate States of अमेरिका कि किया नहीं return to Union control by जनवरी 1, 1863.
None लौटे, and the order, signed और जारी जनवरी 1, 1863, took effect except in locations जहाँ the संघ था already ज़्यादातर regained कंट्रोल.
The उदघोषणा outraged white southerners जो envisioned a रेस युद्ध, angered कुछ Northern डेमोक्रेट, सक्रिय anti-slavery शक्तियां, और weakened forces in यूरोपीय कि चाही to intervene to सहायता the confederacy.
It also lifted the spirits of अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी दोनो in the दक्षिणी और Northern राज्य, और led to many slaves escaping उनके मास्टर्स और कार्यशील पीछे संघ लाइनों in अनुक्रम to have उनके emancipation enforced.
चूषक पंच is a 2011 अमरीकी fantasy कार्रवाई फिल्मी निर्देशित by zack Snyder और co-written by उसे और Steve शिबुया.
It is Snyder 's पहला फिल्मी आधारित on an original स्क्रिप्ट.
the फिल्मी सितारों एमिली ब्राउनिंग, Abbie cornish, जेना malone, वैनेसा हजेंस, जेमी Chung, और Carla Gugino.
the कथानक फ़ॉलो the कल्पनाओं of a यंग स्त्री जो is वचनबद्ध to a दिमागी institution, as वो makes a योजना to एस्केप the हॉस्पिटल before कष्ट a lobotomy.
The film was released in दोनो conventional and imax theatres in the संयुक्त States at midnight on कूच 25, 2011.
it प्राप्त generally ऋणात्मक समीक्षाएँ from critics, लकिन थी a मॉडरेट box दफ्तर कामयाबी.
सामने और back of canon PowerShot A95, a typical pocket-size डिजिटल camera
Haselblad 503cw with ixpress V96C digital वापस, an example of a professional digital कैमरा system
a digital कैमरा ( or digicam ) is a कैमरा कि takes वीडियो or still छायाचित्र by रिकॉर्डिंग बिंब on an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक image सेंसर.
सबसे कैमरे sold आज हैं डिजिटल, और डिजिटल cameras हैं incorporated into many डिवाइस ranging इससे PDAs and मोबाईल phones ( पुकारा कैमरा phones ) to वाहनों.
डिजिटल और film कैमरे share an ऑप्टिकल system, typically using a lens साथ a परिवर्तनीय diaphragm to फ़ोकस लाइट onto an चित्र पिकअप device.
The diaphragm और शटर admit the सही राशि of लाइट to the imager, बस as साथ फिल्मी लकिन the चित्र pickup device is इलेक्ट्रॉनिक बल्कि than रासायनिक.
However, unlike film cameras, डिजिटल कैमरे can display images on a स्क्रीन immediately बाद being recorded, और store and हटाएँ बिंब इससे memory.
Many डिजिटल cameras can भी रिकार्ड moving वीडियो साथ ध्वनि.
कुछ डिजिटल cameras can crop and सिलाई तस्वीरें and perform अन्य elementary चित्र संपादन.
the अंदर and सामने of a डेल poweredge वेब server, a कंप्यूटर designed लिये रैक mounting
Multiple web servers may be used for a ऊँची ट्रैफ़िक website, here four सूर्य Fire X4200 servers are संस्थापित together
Web server can refer to either the हार्डवेयर ( the कंप्यूटर ) or the software ( the कंप्यूटर अनुप्रयोग ) कि helps to उद्धार web सामग्री कि can be पहुँचा through the अंतरजाल.
the सबसे आम उपयोग of वेब servers is to host websites, लकिन वहीँ हैं अन्य उपयोग such as गेमिंग, आंकड़ा storage or कार्यशील एंटरप्राइज़ अनुप्रयोग.
the American रेड क्रॉस ( ARC ), also known as the अमरीकी नेशनल Red Cross, is a humanitarian organization that provides emergency सहायता, disaster राहत और education अंदर the संयुक्त राज्य.
it is the designated U.S. affiliate of the International Federation of रेड Cross और रेड crescent Societies.
Today, in addition to घरेलू विपत्ति relief, the अमरीकी रेड Cross offers सेवाएं in पाँच other areas : community सेवाएं कि help the needy ; communications सेवाएं और सुकून लिये military सदस्यों and उनके परिवार सदस्यों ; the संग्रहण, प्रसंस्करण and वितरण of रक्त और रक्त products ; शैक्षणिक कार्यक्रम on preparedness, health, and safety ; and international राहत और development कार्यक्रम.
जारी a कॉरपोरेट चार्टर by the United राज्य Congress अंतर्गत शीर्षक 36 of the United राज्य कोड, Section 3001, the American नेशनल Red क्रॉस is governed by स्वयंसेवक और समर्थित by community donations, income इससे स्वास्थ्य and सुरक्षा training और products, और income from रक्त products.
the अमरीकी रेड क्रॉस is headquartered in Washington, d.c.
The अध्यक्ष of the फलक of राज्यपालों, सेवारत उसके second three-year term, is bonnie mcelveen-hunter.
the current अध्यक्ष और Chief Executive अधिकारी is Gail J. mcgovern.
A मुर्गा in कोसोवो
a rooster, प्रर्दशित wattles, earlobes and comb
A rooster crowing ( with ऑडियो )
right
a rooster ( also पुकारा a cockerel or मुर्गा ) is a male gallinaceous bird.
it प्रायः refers to a male मुर्गा ( gallus gallus ).
नादान पुरूष chickens कम than एक साल बूढ़ा हैं पुकारा cockerels.
The term `` rooster '' originates in the संयुक्त States, और the पद is widely प्रयुक्त throughout उत्तर अमेरिका, as well as Australia और नई जीलैंड.
In the United किंगडम और आयरलैंड the older term `` cockerel '' is अधिक commonly प्रयुक्त.
`` Cock '' is in general use as the नाम लिये a male of अन्य प्रजाति of बर्ड, for example `` मुर्गा गौरैया ''.
`` roosting '' is the action of perching aloft to sleep at रात्रि, और is done by both लिंगों.
The rooster is polygamous, लकिन can not गार्ड several nests of eggs at एकबार.
He guards the general area where his मुर्गियां are nesting, और होगा attack other roosters कि डालें उसके territory.
During the दिन, he usually sits on a ऊँची पर्च, usually 3–5 feet बंद the ground to serve as a lookout लिये his झुण्ड.
he होगा sound a distinctive alarm कॉल if परभक्षी are nearby.
the Pokémon व्यापार Card खेल ( पोकीमॉन tcg ) is a collectible कार्ड game आधारित on the Pokémon वीडियो game series, first प्रकाशित in अक्तूबर 1996 by मीडिया Factory in जापानी.
In the US, it थी initially published by wizards of the coast, the कम्पनी that produces, in दिसम्बर 1998.
Nintendo took over publishing in जून 2003.
it is एक of Nintendo 's पिछला बाकी strong links to इसके विरासत as a playing card कम्पनी.
Land Rover is a अंग्रेजों car निर्माता with its headquarters in gaydon, Warwickshire, United किंगडम जिससे specialises in four-wheel-drive वाहनों.
it is भाग of the जैगुआर Land रोवर group, a subsidiary of tata Motors of इण्डिया.
it is the दूसरी oldest four-wheel-drive car brand in the world ( after जीपी ).
The Land Rover नाम थी originally प्रयुक्त by the रोवर कम्पनी for one विशिष्ट गाडी model, नामित बस the जमीन Rover, launched by रोवर in 1948.
over the following years it विकसित into a marque encompassing a दायरा of four-wheel-drive models, सहित the defender, Discovery, Freelander, दायरा रोवर, दायरा रोवर Sport and Range रोवर Evoque.
जमीन रोवर्स हैं currently समवेत in the कम्पनी 's Halewood और solihull पौधे, with research और development लेने प्लेस at jlr 's gaydon और whitley engineering centres.
Land रोवर sold 194,000 vehicles worldwide in 2009.
Although the ब्रांड originates इससे the असली 1948 मॉडल, जमीन Rover as a कम्पनी रै only existed चूंकि 1978.
Prior to this, it was a product लकीर of the रोवर कम्पनी जिससे was subsequently absorbed into the rover-triumph प्रभाग of the अंग्रेजों Leyland मोटर Corporation ( bl ) following Leyland मोटर निगम ’s कब्ज़ा of रोवर in 1967.
the ongoing वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी of the original Land रोवर श्रेणी मॉडल, and latterly the Range रोवर in the 1970s in the midst of bl’s well documented कारोबार troubles prompted the establishment of a पृथक जमीन रोवर company लकिन स्टिल अंतर्गत the bl छतरियाँ, remaining भाग of the subsequent रोवर समूह in 1988, under the स्वामित्व of अंग्रेजों Aerospace after the remains of अंग्रेजों leyland were टूटा up and privatised.
in 1994 रोवर समूह plc थी acquired by BMW.
in 2000, Rover समूह थी broken-up by BMW और Land Rover थी बेची to घाट Motor कम्पनी, बनने भाग of its Premier Automotive समूह.
In 2006 घाट खरीदा the रोवर ब्रांड इससे bmw for around £6 million.
इस reunited the रोवर and जमीन Rover ब्रांड्स for the पहला समय since 2000 when the रोवर समूह was broken up by BMW.
In जून 2008, Ford बेची दोनो जमीन रोवर और Jaguar Cars to tata Motors.
This बिक्री भी शामिल the dormant रोवर brand
the कवर of the पहला dvd संकलन released by Aniplex of the नई कप्तान Shūsuke amagai चाप
the ninth season of the ब्लीच anime श्रेणी is नामित.
the श्रेणी is based on Tite kubo 's manga साथ वही name.
the episodes are निर्देशित by Noriyuki abe और उत्पादित by tv टोकियो, Dentsu, and स्टुडियो Pierrot.
the एपीसोड ' plot focuses on the परिचय of a new आत्मा reaper captain, Shūsuke amagai, और the mystery surrounding the kasumiōji clan, एक of the families that constitute the धामों of Soul समाज.
the ऋतु began airing on April 23, 2008 in Japan on TV Tokyo and ended on October 7, 2008.
The English अनुकूलन of the ब्लीच anime is licensed by viz Media, और इस चाप began airing on अगस्त 28, 2010 on Cartoon संजाल 's वयस्क तैरना, और समाप्त on जनवरी 29, 2011.
Five dvd compilations, प्रत्येक containing चार एपीसोड of the ऋतु, have been released by aniplex ; the पहला dvd compilation थी released on November 26, 2008 और the पांचवां on कूच 25, 2009.
A dvd box होगा be प्रकाशित by Viz मीडिया on दिसम्बर 13, 2011.
the एपीसोड use three pieces of थीम music : एक opening थीम और two closing विषयवस्तु.
The खोलने theme is `` chu-bura `` by kelun.
the first closing theme is `` नारंगी '' by lil'b, प्रयुक्त लिये episodes 168 to 179, और the दूसरी closing theme is `` Gallop '' by pe'zmoku, प्रयुक्त for the शेष of the episodes.
The विनियमन of prostitution in the United राज्य is नहीं among the enumerated शक्तियां of the संघीय सरकारी ; Under the दसवाँ Amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान, it is therefore exclusively the डोमेन of the states to परमिट, prohibit, or वरना regulate commercial sex, मगर insofar as कॉंग्रेस may विनियमित it as part of अंतरराज्यीय कॉमर्स साथ laws like the Mann अधिनियम.
In most राज्य, वेश्यावृति is माना a misdemeanor in the श्रेणी of public order अपराधों, a crime कि disrupts the अनुक्रम of a जातियाँ.
it थी at एक time माना to be a vagrancy अपराधों.
फिलहाल, Nevada is the तभी state to allow वेश्यालय prostitution, the शर्तें of जिससे हैं stipulated in the Nevada Revised statutes.
तभी 8 काउंटी फिलहाल contain active brothels.
All forms of prostitution हैं illegal in क्लार्क County ( which contains the Las vegas–paradise महानगर क्षेत्रफल ), washoe काउंटी ( which contains Reno ), कार्सन नगर, Douglas काउंटी, and Lincoln County.
The अन्य काउंटी theoretically allow वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति, लकिन some of ये काउंटी currently have no क्रियाशील brothels.
Street वेश्यावृति, `` pandering, '' और जीना बंद of the proceeds of a वेश्या remain illegal under नेवाडा विधि, as elsewhere in the country.
as साथ अन्य countries, वेश्यावृति in the United States can be विभाजित into three broad categories : street prostitution, brothel prostitution, और अनुरक्षण वेश्यावृति.
The ईस्ट coast of the संयुक्त राज्य, also ज्ञात as the Eastern Seaboard or the अटलांटिक seaboard and commonly shortened to East coast, refers to the easternmost coast of the संयुक्त States along the अटलांटिक समंदर.
the states जिससे have shoreline on the ईस्ट coast are, from उत्तर to south, the U.S. राज्य of Maine, नई हैम्पशायर, मैसाचुसेट्स, Rhode द्वीप, Connecticut, New यॉर्क, नई जर्सी, डेलावेयर, मेरीलैंड, वर्जिनिया, North कैरोलिना, South Carolina, Georgia, और फ्लोरिडा.
Richard milhous निक्सन ( जनवरी 9, 1913 – April 22, 1994 ) was the 37th President of the संयुक्त States, serving from 1969 to 1974, when he became the तभी president to इस्तीफा the दफ्तर.
Nixon had previously served as a रिपब्लिकन U.S. प्रतिनिधि और senator इससे कैलिफ़ोर्निया and as the 36th वाइस अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य from 1953 to 1961.
निक्सन थी born in yorba Linda, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
He graduated from Whittier College in 1934 और Duke University स्कूल of विधि in 1937, returning to California to अभ्यास law.
he और his बीवी, Pat निक्सन, स्थानांतरित to वॉशिंगटन to कार्य for the federal सरकारी in 1942.
He subsequently served in the United States Navy दौरान संसार War II.
Nixon was निर्वाचित in California to the हाउस of Representatives in 1946 और to the सीनेट in 1950.
उसके pursuit of the Alger hiss मामला स्थापित उसके प्रतिष्ठा as a अग्रणी anti-communist, and elevated him to नेशनल prominence.
He was the कार्यशील mate of Dwight D. आइज़नहावर, the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी अध्यक्षीय nominee in the 1952 election.
Nixon served लिये आठ years as वाइस president.
he waged an unsuccessful अध्यक्षीय campaign in 1960, narrowly खोने to John F. कैनेडी, and खोया a रेस लिये राज्यपाल of California in 1962.
In 1968, he ran again लिये the प्रेसिडेंसी and थी निर्वाचित.
Although निक्सन initially escalated अमेरिका 's involvement in the वियतनाम War, he subsequently ended u.S. भागीदारी in 1973.
Nixon 's विज़िट to the People 's गणतंत्र of China in 1972 खोली राजनयिक संबंध between the two nations, and he initiated détente और the Anti-Ballistic मिसाइल Treaty साथ the सोवियत संघ the same year.
domestically, उसके administration generally embraced नीतियों that transferred शक्ति इससे वॉशिंगटन to the राज्य.
Among other things, he launched पहलों to लड़ो कर्कट और illegal drugs, imposed wage और दाम नियंत्रण, enforced desegregation of कुछ Southern स्कूलों, और स्थापित the पर्यावरणीय Protection Agency.
Though he presided over the चंद्र अवतरण beginning with Apollo 11, he scaled वापस manned स्पेस खोजी.
He was re-elected by a भूस्खलन in 1972.
Nixon 's second पद देखी an Arab आयल embargo, the resignation of उसके vice अध्यक्ष, Spiro agnew, और a continuing श्रेणी of revelations परिचय the Watergate scandal और अन्य misconduct by members of the administration.
The scandal escalated, costing निक्सन much of उसके political support, and on अगस्त 9, 1974, he resigned in the face of लगभग निश्चित महाभियोग और हटाना इससे office.
After his resignation, he controversially प्राप्त a pardon जारी by उसके successor, जेराल्ड Ford.
in retirement, Nixon 's work as an elder statesman, authoring अनेक books और undertaking अनेक विदेशी trips, helped to rehabilitate his पब्लिक image.
he suffered a debilitating stroke on April 18, 1994, और died four days later at the आयु of 81.
Sertraline hydrochloride ( व्यापार names zoloft, Lustral ) is an antidepressant of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) class.
it was introduced to the मार्केट by फाइजर in 1991.
sertraline is primarily विहित for major depressive विकार in वयस्क outpatients as well as obsessive–compulsive, दहशत, और सोशल चिंता disorders in दोनो adults and children.
in 2011, it थी the second-most prescribed antidepressant on the U.S. retail मार्केट, with 37,208,000 prescriptions.
the efficacy of sertraline for depression is समान to that of older tricyclic antidepressants, लकिन इसके पक्ष प्रभाव हैं much less pronounced.
मतभेद साथ newer antidepressants are subtler और also ज़्यादातर confined to side प्रभाव.
Evidence suggests कि sertraline may कार्य बेहतर than fluoxetine ( Prozac ) लिये कुछ subtypes of depression.
Treatment of दहशत विकार साथ sertraline results in a significant decrease of the क्रमांक of panic हमले and in improved विशेषता of life.
For obsessive-compulsive विकार, sertraline is नहीं as effective as संज्ञानात्मक behavioral चिकित्सा ; the बेहतरीन results have been हासिल by combining ये दो treatments.
Although स्वीकृत for सोशल phobia और posttraumatic तनाव disorder, sertraline लीड to तभी modest improvement in ये conditions.
Sertraline also alleviates the symptoms of premenstrual dysphoric विकार और can be प्रयुक्त in sub-therapeutic doses or intermittently लिये इसके treatment.
Sertraline साझा the common पक्ष effects और contraindications of अन्य SSRIs, with ऊँची rates of nausea, अतिसार, अनिद्रा, और यौन side प्रभाव ; however, it does नहीं cause वज़न लाभ, and its effects on दोनो संज्ञान और vigilance are अपेक्षाकृत mild.
In गर्भवती महिलाओं taking sertraline, the ड्रग was उपस्थित in significant concentrations in fetal blood, और थी also associated with a उच्चतर rate of various जनम defects.
similarly to अन्य antidepressants, the उपयोग of sertraline लिये अवसाद may be associated साथ a उच्चतर रेट of suicidality.
the Five heartbeats is a 1991 musical नाटक फिल्मी निर्देशित by रॉबर्ट Townsend, जो co-wrote the script साथ keenan आइवरी Wayans.
वितरित by 20th Century फॉक्स, the फिल्मी 's प्रमुख cast includes टाउनसेंड, माइकल राइट, लिओन Robinson, Harry J. Lennix, tico Wells, हेरोल्ड Nicholas of the निकोलस Brothers, and Diahann कैरल.
the plot of the film ( which is loosely based on the जीवनदान of अनेक कलाकारों : The Dells, the Temptations, चार Tops, विल्सन पिकेट, James Brown, फ्रेंकी Lymon, Sam Cooke और अन्य ) फ़ॉलो the तीन दशक career of the r & b गायन group the Five heartbeats.
The फिल्मी depicts the वृद्धि और पतन of a motown प्रेरित आत्मा अधिनियम through the eyes of the फिल्मी 's प्रमुख समर्थक, Donald `` बतख '' matthews ( portrayed by Townsend ), जो serves as a narrator throughout the फिल्मी.
however, a बहुमत of the cinema is presented in a लगातार समय line as opposed to traditional फ्लैश backs.
the फिल्मी शामिल a significant amount of असली music conceived by विभिन्न कलाकारों लिये the फिल्मी 's साउंडट्रैक, सहित singles ऐसे as `` a दिल is a House for प्रेम ``, `` We Have n't समाप्त Yet '', and `` Nothing लकिन Love ''.
The फिल्मी थी released to सबसे उत्तर अमरीकी ऑडियंस कूच 29, 1991 however it थी नहीं बना available to ऑडियंस in अन्य continents until 2002 when a dvd थी released prior to another DVD release in 2006 for the film 's 15th anniversary.
The फिल्म प्राप्त मिश्रित समीक्षाएँ इससे critics.
सचिवालय ( कूच 30, 1970 – October 4, 1989 ) was an अमरीकी thoroughbred racehorse that in 1973 became the पहला U.S. Triple Crown चैंपियन in 25 सालो.
he set रेस रिकॉर्ड in सब तीन कार्यक्रम in the श्रेणी — the केंटकी डर्बी ( 1:59.4 ), the preakness stakes ( 1:53 ), और the belmont stakes ( 2:24 ) — रिकॉर्ड that स्टिल stand आज.
He is माना to be एक of the महानतम Thoroughbreds of सब time.
In 1999, ESPN क्रमित सचिवालय the 35th बेहतरीन खिलाड़ी of the 20th century, the highest रैंकिंग racehorse on the list url_http.
he ranked दूसरी पीछे man o ' War in the Blood-Horse 's सूची of the Top 100 u.S. Racehorses of the 20th Century.
सचिवालय थी sired by बिंदास Ruler out of somethingroyal, by princequillo.
he was foaled at The मर्ग in Caroline काउंटी, Virginia.
Like his प्रसिद्ध पूर्ववर्ती man o ' युद्ध, सचिवालय was a large शाहबलूत टट्टू and थी दिए the वही उपनाम, `` Big रेड. ''
सचिवालय 's grandsire, Nasrullah, is also the great-great-grandsire of 1977 Triple क्राउन winner Seattle slew.
Owned by पैनी Chenery, he was प्रशिक्षित by lucien laurin and mainly ridden by कनाडाई jockey रॉन Turcotte, साथ साथ प्रशिक्षु jockey पॉल फेलिसियानो ( पहला two races ), and veteran Eddie Maple ( last रेस ).
he raced in Chenery 's Meadow stable 's blue और white checkered colors and his दूल्हे थी एडी Sweat.
सचिवालय stood लगभग tall, और weighed, with a 75-inch girth, in his रेसिंग प्रधान.
a typical 12 V, 40 ah lead-acid car बैटरी
An ऑटोमोटिव बैटरी is a type of rechargeable बैटरी that आपूर्तियाँ electric उर्जा to an automobile.
Usually this refers to an sli battery ( starting, lighting, प्रज्वलन ) to शक्ति the starter मोटर, the lights, और the प्रज्वलन प्रणाली of a vehicle’s इंजन.
ऑटोमोटिव sli batteries are usually lead-acid प्रकार, और हैं बना of छह गैल्वानी कोशिकाएं in series to provide a 12 वोल्ट प्रणाली.
प्रत्येक cell provides 2.1 volts लिये a total of 12.6 वोल्ट at पूरा चार्ज.
Heavy vehicles such as राजमार्ग ट्रक or tractors, प्रायः equipped with डीज़ल इंजन, may have two batteries in श्रेणी लिये a 24 volt system, or may have समानांतर स्ट्रिंग्स of बैटरी.
lead-acid बैटरी are made up of प्लेटों of lead और पृथक plates of सीसे dioxide, जिससे हैं submerged into an electrolyte समाधान of परिचय 38 % sulfuric acid and 62 % जल.
This causes a chemical प्रतिक्रिया कि रिलीज electrons, allowing उन्हें to प्रवाह through conductors to उपज electricity.
As the battery discharges, the एसिड of the electrolyte reacts साथ the materials of the plates, बदलना उनके सतह to सीसे सल्फेट.
जब the बैटरी is recharged, the chemical प्रतिक्रिया is reversed : the सीसे सल्फेट reforms into lead dioxide और lead.
साथ the प्लेटों लौटी to उनके असली condition, the प्रक्रम may अभी be repeated.
Battery recycling of ऑटोमोटिव batteries reduces the need लिये संसाधन required for manufacture of नई batteries, diverts toxic सीसे from landfills, and रोकता risk of improper निपटान.
Full-time नियुक्ति is नियुक्ति in जिससे a व्यक्ति works a minimum number of घंटों पारिभाषित as such by his/her employer.
full-time नियुक्ति often आता साथ लाभ कि हैं नहीं typically offered to part-time, temporary, or flexible मजदूर, ऐसे as सालाना छोड़, sickleave, और स्वास्थ्य बीमे.
full-time कार्य are often considered करियर.
They generally pay more than part-time jobs, और प्रायः carry अधिक घंटों प्रति week.
The Fair मजदूर मानकों अधिनियम ( flsa ) does not define full-time नियुक्ति or part-time employment.
इस is a पदार्थ generally to be संकल्पित by the नियोक्ता ( US विभाग of मजदूर ).
The परिभाषा by नियोक्ता can vary and is generally प्रकाशित in a company 's कर्मचारी हैंडबुक.
कंपनियाँ commonly आवश्यकता इससे 30–35 or 40 घंटों प्रति सप्ताह to be defined as full-time और इसलिए eligible लिये लाभ.
full-time औकात varies between कम्पनी और is often based on the शिफ़्ट the कर्मचारी जरूर work दौरान each work सप्ताह.
the `` standard '' work week consists of five eight-hour दिनों, commonly served between 9:00am to 5:00PM totaling 40 घंटों.
जबकि a four-day सप्ताह generally consists of चार ten-hour days ; it may also consist of as छोटी as नौ hours for a total of a 36 hour कार्य week.
Twelve-hour शिफ्ट हैं प्रायः तीन दिनों प्रति week, जबतक the कम्पनी रै the इरादे of paying out the कर्मचारी ओवरटाइम.
ओवरटाइम is legally सशुल्क out anytime an कर्मचारी works more than 40 घंटों per सप्ताह.
the legal minimum लिये ओवरटाइम starts at Base Pay + one-half.
the increased payout is considered to compensate थोड़ा लिये the increased fatigue जिससे a person experiences on such long शिफ्ट.
शिफ्ट can भी be बहुत irregular, as in खुदरा, लकिन हैं स्टिल full-time if the जरूरी क्रमांक of घंटों is पहुँचे.
वहीँ हैं कुछ परिस्थितियों where a person जो needs full-time कार्य is dropped to part-time, which is sometimes a रूप of constructive dismissal to avoid paying बेरोजगारी benefits to a laid-off worker.
Seahorse is the शीर्षक दिए to 54 species of समुद्री मछली in the genus हिप्पोकैम्पस.
`` हिप्पोकैम्पस '' comes इससे the प्राचीन यूनानी hippos अर्थ `` horse '' and kampos अर्थ `` sea दानव ''.
the नियंत्रित Substances अधिनियम ( सीएसए ) थी enacted into law by the Congress of the United राज्य as Title II of the व्यापक Drug गाली Prevention और कंट्रोल Act of 1970.
the सीएसए is the federal u.S. ड्रग policy अंतर्गत which the manufacture, importation, possession, use and वितरण of निश्चित substances is regulated.
The Act भी परोसा as the नेशनल implementing legislation for the सिंगल सम्मेलन on Narcotic Drugs.
the legislation निर्मित five Schedules ( classifications ), साथ varying योग्यता for a substance to be शामिल in each.
दो federal agencies, the ड्रग Enforcement प्रशासन and the खाना and ड्रग Administration, determine which substances हैं added to or removed इससे the various schedules, हालांकि the statute passed by कॉंग्रेस निर्मित the initial लिस्टिंग, और Congress रै sometimes अनुसूचित other substances through विधान such as the Hillory J. farias and Samantha Reid Date-Rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of 2000, which placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in अनुसूची I. वर्गीकरण decisions are required to be made on मापदण्ड सहित संभावित for गाली ( an अपरिभाषित पद ), फिलहाल स्वीकृत चिकित्सा उपयोग in उपचार in the United राज्य, और अंतरराष्ट्रीय treaties.
Maya numerals
Maya numerals हैं a vigesimal ( base - twenty ) numeral प्रणाली प्रयुक्त by the pre-columbian माया civilization.
the numerals हैं made up of तीन प्रतीकों ; शून्य ( shell आकार ), एक ( a बिन्दु ) and पाँच ( a बार ).
लिये उदाहरण, thirteen is written as तीन dots in a आड़ा row above दो horizontal लाइनों stacked ऊपर each other.
Lyndon baines जॉनसन ( अगस्त 27, 1908 – जनवरी 22, 1973 ), प्रायः referred to as lbj, was the 36th अध्यक्ष of the United States ( 1963–1969 ), a position he assumed बाद उसके सेवा as the 37th Vice अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य ( 1961–1963 ).
he is एक of only चार people जो served in सब four निर्वाचित federal कार्यालयों of the संयुक्त राज्य : Representative, सीनेटर, वाइस President, और President.
जॉनसन, a Democrat इससे Texas, परोसा as a संयुक्त राज्य प्रतिनिधि from 1937–1949 और as a सीनेटर from 1949–1961, सहित छह सालो as संयुक्त States Senate Majority नेता, दो as सीनेट Minority नेता और दो as Senate बहुमत Whip.
After campaigning unsuccessfully for the लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन in 1960, जॉनसन was asked by John F. Kennedy to be उसके running mate for the 1960 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव.
Johnson succeeded to the प्रेसिडेंसी following the assassination of जॉन F. कैनेडी on November 22, 1963, समाप्त Kennedy 's पद and was elected President in his अपना सही, जीतना by a विशाल हाशिया over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 चुनाव.
जॉनसन was greatly समर्थित by the Democratic पार्टी और as President, he was जिम्मेदार for designing the `` ग्रेट समाज `` legislation कि शामिल कानून कि upheld सिविल अधिकारों, पब्लिक प्रसारण, Medicare, medicaid, environmental protection, सहायता to education, और his `` War on गरीबी. ''
Johnson थी renowned लिये उसके domineering personality and the `` Johnson उपचार, '' उसके coercion of powerful राजनेता in अनुक्रम to अग्रिम विधान.
Meanwhile, जॉनसन escalated American involvement in the वियतनाम युद्ध, इससे 16,000 अमरीकी advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 कॉम्बैट सैनिकों in जल्दी 1968, as American casualties soared और the सलाम process bogged bas.
the भागीदारी stimulated a large एंग्री antiwar गति आधारित especially on university campuses in the u.S. और विदेश.
गर्मियाँ riots broke out in most प्रमुख शहरों after 1965, and crime दरों soared, as उसके प्रतिद्वंद्वियों raised demands लिये `` विधि और order '' नीतियों.
the लोकतांत्रिक Party split in multiple feuding गिरोहों, और बाद जॉनसन किया poorly in the 1968 नई Hampshire प्राथमिक, he ended उसके bid for reelection.
Republican रिचर्ड Nixon थी निर्वाचित to सफल उसे.
Historians argue कि जॉनसन 's प्रेसिडेंसी चिह्नित the peak of modern उदारतावाद in the United States बाद the नई Deal era.
जॉनसन is क्रमित favorably by some historians because of उसके domestic नीतियों.
Progesterone भी ज्ञात as p4 ( pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione ) is a C-21 steroid hormone शामिल in the मादा menstrual साईकिल, गर्भावस्था ( supports gestation ) और embryogenesis of इंसानो और other प्रजाति.
प्रोजेस्टेरोन belongs to a class of हार्मोन पुकारा progestogens, और is the major naturally occurring इंसान progestogen.
Big Bird is a protagonist of the children 's television show Sesame गली.
officially performed by caroll Spinney since 1969, he is an eight-foot two-inch ( 249 cm ) tall bright primrose-yellow बर्ड.
he can रोलर स्केट, ice स्केट, नृत्य, sing, लिखें काव्य, draw and भी सवारी a unicycle.
लकिन despite this wide सरणी of talents, he is prone to बारंबार misunderstandings, on one अवसर भी singing the वर्णमाला as एक big long शब्द ( from the सोंग पुकारा `` ABC-DEF-GHI, '' pronounced `` ab-keddef-gajihkel-monop-quristuv-wixyz '' ), pondering कया it could कभी mean.
he जीवनदान in a विशाल nest पीछे the 123 तिल Street brownstone और रै a teddy भालू नामित रडार.
webtrends is a निजी कम्पनी headquartered in Portland, Oregon, United States.
it provides web, social, और मोबाईल analytics और अन्य software solutions सम्बन्धित to विपणन intelligence.
The company was संस्थापित in 1993 और अभी serves अधिक than 10,000 विशाल और small कड़s. < संदर्भ name='intelligent Enterprise 2007-05-21 ' >
the दूसरी crusade ( 1145–1149 ) थी the दूसरी major crusade शुभारम्भ इससे यूरोपीय.
the दूसरी Crusade थी started in response to the पतन of the County of edessa the पिछला year to the शक्तियां of zengi.
the काउंटी had महरूम founded दौरान the First crusade ( 1096–1099 ) by baldwin of boulogne in 1098.
While it थी the पहला Crusader राज्य to be संस्थापित, it थी भी the पहला to पतन.
The दूसरी crusade थी announced by Pope यूजीन iii, and थी the पहला of the crusades to be led by यूरोपीय किंग्स, namely लुई VII of France and Conrad III of जर्मनी, साथ सहायता इससे a number of other यूरोपीय nobles.
the armies of the दो किंग्स marched separately across Europe.
बाद crossing बीज़ान्टिन territory into आनातोलिया, दोनो सेना यहूद separately पराजित by the Seljuq turks.
the प्रमुख Western Christian source, odo of deuil, and syriac Christian स्त्रोत claim कि the Byzantine emperor Manuel i Comnenus secretly hindered the crusaders ' progress, विशेषकर in Anatolia जहाँ he is कथित to have deliberately ordered turks to attack them.
Louis और कोनराड और the remnants of their सेना पहुँचे जेरूसलम and, in 1148, participated in an ill-advised आक्रमण on दमिश्क.
the crusade in the east was a failure for the crusaders and a ग्रेट विजय लिये the Muslims.
it होता ultimately have a key influence on the fall of जेरूसलम और दे वृद्धि to the तीसरा Crusade at the end of the 12th सदी.
the तभी success of the Second Crusade आए to a संयुक्त फ़ोर्स of 13,000 फ्लेमिश, frisian, Norman, English, स्कॉटिश, and जर्मनी crusaders in 1147.
यात्राएं from इंग्लैण्ड, by ship, to the पावन Land, the फौज stopped और helped the छोटी ( 7,000 ) पुर्तगाली फौज in the capture of लिस्बन, expelling its मूरिश occupants.
wal-mart स्टोर्स, Inc. ( ), ब्रांडेड as walmart, is an American multinational retail निगम कि रनों chains of large छूट विभाग स्टोर्स and गोदाम stores.
The कम्पनी is the world 's तीसरा largest पब्लिक corporation, according to the Fortune Global 500 list in 2012, the biggest private नियोक्ता in the संसार with over दो लाख कर्मचारी, और is the largest retailer in the संसार.
walmart remains a family-owned business, as the कम्पनी is controlled by the Walton family, जो own a 48 प्रतिशत stake in walmart.
It is also एक of the संसार 's सबसे मूल्यवान कंपनियाँ.
the company थी founded by Sam वाल्टन in 1962, incorporated on October 31, 1969, and publicly traded on the नई York Stock एक्सचेंज in 1972.
It is headquartered in Bentonville, अरकंसास.
Walmart is भी the largest grocery रिटेलर in the संयुक्त States.
in 2009, it generated 51 प्रतिशत of इसके US $ 258 billion sales in the U.S. इससे किराना कारोबार.
it भी owns and operates the sam 's क्लबों खुदरा warehouses in North अमेरिका.
by 1988, wal-mart was the most लाभप्रद retailer in the US, और by November 1990, it outsold K-mart.
By 1991 it outsold Sears in खुदरा, बनाना it America 's largest retailer, a distinction it स्टिल holds.
Walmart has 8,500 stores in 15 देशों, अंतर्गत 55 अलग names.
The कम्पनी operates अंतर्गत the walmart name in the संयुक्त राज्य, सहित the 50 राज्य और प्यूर्टो रीको.
it operates in मैक्सिको as walmex, in the संयुक्त Kingdom as Asda, in Japan as seiyu, और in इण्डिया as Best दाम.
It has wholly owned operations in अर्जेंटीना, ब्राज़ील, और Canada.
Walmart 's investments outside उत्तर अमेरिका have था मिश्रित परिणाम : इसके परिचालन in the United Kingdom, South अमेरिका, और China हैं अत्यधिक कामयाब, whereas ventures in Germany and दक्षिण कोरियाई were unsuccessful.
रॉबर्ट William Gary मूर ( 4 अप्रैल 1952 – 6 फ़रवरी 2011 ), थी a Northern Irish musician, सबसे widely recognised as a singer and guitarist.
in a career dating वापस to the 1960s, Moore निभाई साथ artists सहित फिल lynott और ब्रायन downey during उसके किशोर, अग्रणी उसे to memberships साथ the Irish bands स्किड पंक्ति and पतला Lizzy on तीन पृथक अवसरों.
Moore साझा the स्टेज with such ब्लूज़ and rock luminaries as B.B. King, Albert किंग, कोलोसियम II, जार्ज हैरिसन and Greg झील, as खूब as having a successful सोलो करियर.
he guested on a number of एल्बम recorded by high profile संगीतकारों, सहित a कैमियो appearance playing the सीसे guitar सोलो on `` वो 's My Baby `` इससे Traveling wilburys आवाज़. 3.
an उदाहरण of रैक आरोहित servers
A वेब होस्टिंग सेवा is a प्रकार of Internet होस्टिंग सेवा कि allows individuals और संगठन to make उनके website accessible via the संसार चौड़ी वेब.
Web hosts हैं कंपनियाँ that provide स्पेस on a सर्वर owned or leased लिये उपयोग by क्लाइंट, as खूब as providing Internet कनेक्टिविटी, typically in a आंकड़ा center.
Web होस्ट can भी provide आंकड़ा center space और कनेक्टिविटी to the अंतरजाल लिये other सर्वर स्तिथ in उनके data बीच, पुकारा colocation, also known as आवास in Latin अमेरिका or फ़्रांस.
the पैमाना of web होस्टिंग सेवाएं varies greatly.
The सबसे मौलिक is वेब पेज और small-scale संचिका होस्टिंग, where फाइलें can be uploaded via File Transfer Protocol ( FTP ) or a वेब इंटरफ़ेस.
the फाइलें हैं प्रायः वितरित to the Web `` as is '' or साथ minimal processing.
Many अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाताओं ( isps ) offer इस service free to सदस्य.
Individuals and संगठन may भी obtain वेब पेज होस्टिंग इससे alternative सेवा providers.
Personal वेब site होस्टिंग is typically फ़्री, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
Business web site होस्टिंग प्रायः रै a उच्चतर व्यय depending upon the आकार and type of the website.
सिंगल page hosting is generally sufficient लिये personal वेब पृष्ठों.
a complex site calls लिये a more comprehensive पैकेज that provides database support और अनुप्रयोग development platforms ( e.g. पीएचपी, जावा, माणिक्य on rails, coldfusion, or asp.net ).
ये facilities allow customers to लिखें or install scripts for applications जैसे forums and content प्रबन्धन.
भी, Secure sockets Layer ( एसएसएल ) is typically used for e-commerce.
The मेजबान may भी provide an इंटरफ़ेस or control फलक लिये मैनेजिंग the वेब सर्वर and installing स्क्रिप्ट, as खूब as other मौड्यूल और सेवा अनुप्रयोग जैसे e-mail.
कुछ hosts specialize in निश्चित software or services ( e.g. e-commerce ), which are commonly प्रयुक्त by larger कंपनियाँ कि outsource संजाल अवसंरचना.
obstetrics ( from the लैटिन obstare, `` to स्टैंड by '' ) is the चिकित्सा specialty dealing साथ the परवाह of all women 's reproductive tracts और their children दौरान pregnancy ( prenatal काल ), प्रसव और the postnatal period.
अनेक obstetricians हैं भी gynecologists, meaning they perform in दोनो specialties.
in the संयुक्त States, ये physicians हैं commonly referred to as ob/gyns.
the राइट brothers, Orville ( अगस्त 19, 1871 – जनवरी 30, 1948 ) और wilbur ( April 16, 1867 – may 30, 1912 ), यहूद दो अमरीकी भाइयो, inventors, और विमानन pioneers who यहूद credited साथ inventing और building the world 's first कामयाब वायुयान and बनाना the पहला नियंत्रित, powered और sustained heavier-than-air इंसान उड़ान, on December 17, 1903.
इससे 1905 to 1907, the brothers developed their flying यंत्र into the first practical fixed-wing aircraft.
हालांकि नहीं the पहला to build और fly experimental वायुयान, the Wright भाइयो were the पहला to इफ़तेरा वायुयान नियंत्रण that made fixed-wing संचालित flight संभावित.
the brothers ' fundamental breakthrough was उनके आविष्कार of three-axis कंट्रोल, जिससे enabled the pilot to steer the aircraft effectively और to maintain its संतुलन.
This method became मानक और remains मानक on fixed-wing aircraft of सब kinds.
इससे the beginning of उनके aeronautical कार्य, the Wright brothers केन्द्रित on विकासशील a विश्वसनीय विधि of pilot control as the कुंजी to solving `` the flying प्रॉब्लम ''.
This दृष्टिकोण differed significantly इससे other experimenters of the time जो put अधिक जोर on विकासशील शक्तिशाली इंजन.
Using a छोटी homebuilt wind टनल, the wrights भी collected अधिक सटीक आंकड़ा than any पहले, enabling उन्हें to design and निर्माण विंग्स and propellers कि यहूद more कुशल than कोई पहले.
Their पहला u.S. पेटेंट, 821,393, किया नहीं claim आविष्कार of a उड़ती machine, लकिन rather, the आविष्कार of a प्रणाली of aerodynamic कंट्रोल कि manipulated a flying machine 's सतहों.
वे gained the mechanical कौशल अनिवार्य लिये their कामयाबी by working लिये सालो in उनके दूकान साथ मुद्रण दबाता, bicycles, मोटर्स, और other मशीनरी.
उनके कार्य with bicycles in particular बहकावे उनके belief कि an unstable गाडी like a उड़ती यंत्र could be नियंत्रित and संतुलित with अभ्यास.
इससे 1900 जबतक their पहला powered फ़्लाइट in लेट 1903, वे conducted extensive glider परीक्षण कि भी developed उनके skills as पायलटों.
Their bicycle shop कर्मचारी चार्ली टेलर became an महत्वपूर्ण part of the टोली, building their पहला aircraft इंजन in close collaboration with the brothers.
the Wright brothers ' औकात as आविष्कारक of the airplane has महरूम subject to counter-claims by विभिन्न पार्टियों.
Much controversy persists over the many स्पर्धा claims of जल्दी aviators.
America 's अगला शीर्ष Model, Cycle 12 is the बारहवीं cycle of अमेरिका 's अगला Top मॉडल and the छठे season to एयर on the cw network.
It premiered on कूच 4, 2009.
the साईकिल 's कैच phrase is `` मिलेंगी In The मोड़ें. ''
The साईकिल 's promotional song is महिला गागा 's `` the कीर्ति ''.
The prizes लिये इस साईकिल are:
a मॉडलिंग अनुबंध साथ Elite मॉडल प्रबन्धन.
a फ़ैशन स्प्रेड और कवर in सत्रह.
a 100,000 contract साथ CoverGirl कॉस्मेटिक्स.
the पहला half of the cycle took place in New यॉर्क नगर, moving the दिखाएँ वापस from लॉस एंजिल्स last season.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय destination लिये इस साईकिल is São Paulo, ब्राज़ील, the श्रेणी पहला विज़िट to South America.
The क्रमांक of लड़कियों थी reduced to 13, the पहला समय since साईकिल 9, बाद होने maintained at 14 in the पिछला two चक्र.
इस was the last समय Paulina porizkova participated as न्यायधीश.
the विजेता थी 20-year-old teyona एंडरसन from woodstown, नई Jersey.
This ऋतु averaged 4.35 लाख viewers प्रति episode.
Exxon mobil निगम, or exxonmobil, is an अमरीकी बहुराष्ट्रीय आयल and gas निगम headquartered in इरविंग, टेक्सास, United राज्य.
it is a direct descendant of जॉन D. Rockefeller 's मानक आयल company, और was formed on नवम्बर 30, 1999, by the विलय of exxon और Mobil.
it is संबद्ध with Imperial आयल which operates in Canada.
exxonmobil is the संसार 's largest कम्पनी by आय and in 2013, became the largest publicly traded company by मार्केट capitalization in the world.
The company is ranked # 5 globally in Forbes Global 2000 list in 2013.
exxon mobil 's reserves यहूद 72 अरब oil-equivalent barrels at the end of 2007 और, at then ( 2007 ) दरों of उत्पादन, हैं अपेक्षित to पिछला over 14 सालो.
साथ 37 आयल refineries in 21 countries constituting a संयुक्त रोज़ refining क्षमता of, exxon Mobil is the largest refiner in the संसार, a title कि थी भी associated साथ मानक आयल चूंकि its incorporation in 1870.
ExxonMobil is the largest of the world 's supermajors साथ रोज़ उत्पादन of 3.921 लाख boe ( barrels of आयल equivalent ).
In 2008, इस थी लगभग 3 % of world production, जिससे is less than अनेक of the largest state-owned petroleum companies.
जब ranked by आयल and गैस reserves it is 14th in the संसार with कम than 1 % of the total.
A 2012 article in the Daily टेलीग्राफ says that ExxonMobil has `` grown into one of the planet’s सबसे hated corporations, समर्थ to determine American विदेशी नीति and the भाग्य of संपूर्ण nations ''.
in शर्तें of इसके environmental record, exxonmobil increasingly drills in terrains leased to उन्हें by dictatorships, ऐसे as those in Chad और भूमध्यरेखीय गिनी.
Lee रेमंड, the corporation’s chief executive जबतक 2005, was `` notoriously sceptical परिचय जलवायु बदलें और disliked सरकारी हस्तक्षेप at कोई स्तर ''.
The company was widely criticized for its slow response to cleaning इसके 1989 valdez आयल spill in Alaska.
This article is about the Globe Theatre of Shakespeare.
लिये the modern reconstruction in लंदन, see शेक्सपियर 's ग्लोब.
For अन्य uses, see ग्लोब थिएटर ( disambiguation ).
the ग्लोब थिएटर थी a theatre in लंदन associated with विलियम Shakespeare.
It थी built in 1599 by शेक्सपियर 's playing कम्पनी, the रब चेम्बरलेन 's Men, on जमीन स्वामित्व by थामस Brend and inherited by his बेटे, Nicholas brend और पोता Sir मैथ्यू Brend, and थी नष्ट by आग on 29 June 1613.
A दूसरी ग्लोब थिएटर थी निर्मित on the same साईट by जून 1614 and closed in 1642.
A modern पुनर्निर्माण of the ग्लोब, named `` Shakespeare 's ग्लोब ``, खोली in 1997 लगभग from the site of the original theatre.
it 's a अद्भुत जीवन is a 1946 अमरीकी क्रिसमस नाटक फिल्मी उत्पादित and directed by Frank Capra, based on the छोटी स्टोरी `` The महानतम तोहफा ``, which फिलिप वैन doren stern लिखा in 1939 और privately प्रकाशित in 1945.
The फिल्मी is considered एक of the सबसे loved films in American cinema और रै become परंपरागत viewing दौरान the Christmas season, alongside लोकप्रिय क्लासिक ऐसे as Charles डिकेंस ' a क्रिसमस कैरोल.
The film सितारों जेम्स Stewart as जार्ज बेली, a man जो has दिए up his dreams in अनुक्रम to सहायता अन्य और whose imminent आत्महत्या on क्रिसमस Eve brings परिचय the हस्तक्षेप of his guardian angel, Clarence odbody ( हेनरी ट्रेवर्स ).
Clarence shows जार्ज all the जीवनदान he रै छुआ और how अलग life in उसके community of Bedford जलप्रपात होता be था he never been born.
despite initially performing poorly at the बक्सा office due to ऊँची उत्पादन लागत and stiff competition at the time of its release, the film रै आइये to be regarded as a क्लासिक और is a स्टेपल of Christmas television around the संसार.
Theatrically, the फिल्मी 's break-even पाइंट थी actually $ 6.3 लाख, approximately twice the उत्पादन cost, a फिगर it never came बंद to achieving in इसके initial रिलीज.
an appraisal in 2006 reported : `` Although it थी not the complete box दफ्तर failure that आज everyone believes... it थी initially a प्रमुख disappointment and पुष्टि, at least to the studios, कि capra थी no longer capable of turning out the populist features कि बना his films the must-see, money-making events they once यहूद. ''
the फिल्मी was nominated for पाँच ऑस्कर और has महरूम पहचाना by the अमरीकी फिल्मी Institute as एक of the 100 बेहतरीन American films ever made, placing क्रमांक 11 on इसके आरंभिक 1998 महानतम फिल्म list, और होता भी प्लेस number one on its list of the सबसे inspirational अमरीकी films of all समय.
आंकड़ा गोदाम Overview
in computing, a data warehouse or एंटरप्राइज़ आंकड़ा गोदाम ( DW, dwh, or EDW ) is a डेटाबेस प्रयुक्त लिये रिपोर्टिंग और data analysis.
it is a central repository of data जिससे is निर्मित by integrating आंकड़ा इससे एक or अधिक disparate स्त्रोत.
आंकड़ा warehouses स्टोर current as खूब as historical data and हैं प्रयुक्त for बनाना चर्चित रिपोर्ट्स लिये वरिष्ठ प्रबन्धन रिपोर्टिंग ऐसे as सालाना and त्रैमासिक comparisons.
the आंकड़ा भंडारित in the गोदाम are uploaded from the operational प्रणालियों ( such as विपणन, sales etc., दिखाया in the figure to the सही ).
The आंकड़ा may pass through an operational data store for additional परिचालन before they हैं प्रयुक्त in the DW लिये रिपोर्टिंग.
the typical etl -based आंकड़ा warehouse uses स्टेजिंग, data संयोजन, और अभिगम परतों to house its key functions.
the स्टेजिंग परत or स्टेजिंग डेटाबेस स्टोर्स कच्चा आंकड़ा निकाली इससे प्रत्येक of the disparate सोर्स data प्रणालियों.
the संयोजन परत integrates the disparate data सेट by transforming the data इससे the staging परत often storing this रूपांतरित data in an operational आंकड़ा स्टोर ( ods ) database.
the एकीकृत आंकड़ा हैं then moved to yet another डेटाबेस, प्रायः पुकारा the आंकड़ा गोदाम database, जहाँ the data is arranged into hierarchical groups often पुकारा आयाम and into तथ्य और कुल facts.
the संयोजन of facts और आयाम is sometimes called a स्टार स्कीमा.
The access layer helps उपयोक्ता retrieve आंकड़ा.
a आंकड़ा warehouse constructed इससे an एकीकृत आंकड़ा source systems does नहीं आवश्यकता etl, स्टेजिंग databases, or operational data store databases.
The एकीकृत data सोर्स systems may be माना to be a part of a वितरित operational आंकड़ा स्टोर परत.
आंकड़ा संघ methods or आंकड़ा आभासीकरण विधि may be used to access the distributed integrated source data प्रणालियों to consolidate और कुल data directly into the आंकड़ा गोदाम डेटाबेस tables.
Unlike the ETL-based data गोदाम, the एकीकृत सोर्स आंकड़ा प्रणालियों और the आंकड़ा warehouse are all integrated चूंकि वहीँ is no transformation of dimensional or reference आंकड़ा.
इस एकीकृत data warehouse वास्तुकला supports the drill bas इससे the कुल आंकड़ा of the data warehouse to the transactional आंकड़ा of the एकीकृत source data systems.
आंकड़ा warehouses can be subdivided into आंकड़ा marts.
Data marts स्टोर subsets of आंकड़ा from a warehouse.
इस परिभाषा of the आंकड़ा गोदाम focuses on data storage.
the main सोर्स of the data is cleaned, transformed, cataloged और made उपलब्धियाँ लिये उपयोग by प्रबंधक और अन्य कारोबार पेशेवर लिये data खनन, ऑनलाइन analytical प्रसंस्करण, market शोध and decision support ( Marakas & O'Brien 2009 ).
however, the means to retrieve and analyze आंकड़ा, to निकालें, रूपांतरण और लोड data, और to मैनेज the आंकड़ा dictionary हैं भी considered essential components of a आंकड़ा warehousing system.
Many सन्दर्भ to आंकड़ा warehousing उपयोग this broader context.
यूँ, an विस्तारित definition लिये आंकड़ा warehousing शामिल business intelligence टूल्स, tools to extract, transform और load आंकड़ा into the repository, और tools to मैनेज और retrieve metadata.
Portland stone पाषाण on the Isle of Portland, इंग्लैण्ड
an abandoned construction aggregate quarry निकट एडिलेड, South Australia
a quarry is a type of open-pit mine इससे which चट्टान or minerals हैं extracted.
Quarries हैं generally used लिये extracting building materials, such as आयाम स्टोन, निर्माण aggregate, riprap, बालू, और gravel.
They are often collocated with concrete और asphalt पौधे due to the आवश्यकता लिये विशाल amounts of कुल in those materials.
खोलें खानों कि उपज खनिज हैं typically referred to as खोलें गड्ढे खानों.
the शब्द पाषाण can शामिल भूमिगत quarrying लिये stone, such as Bath स्टोन.
mormons ( ) हैं a धार्मिक और सांस्कृतिक group related to mormonism, the प्रिंसिपल शाखा of the latter दिन संत movement of Restorationist Christianity, which began with the visions of Joseph Smith in upstate New York दौरान the 1820s.
बाद स्मिथ 's death in 1844 the Mormons followed ब्रिघम यंग to कया होता become the यूटा territory.
आज mormons हैं समझा to be members of The Church of यीशु Christ of Latter-day संतो ( LDS गिरिजाघर ).
Some mormons हैं also either स्वतंत्र or non-practicing.
The center of Mormon सांस्कृतिक influence is in यूटा, और North अमेरिका रै more mormons than any अन्य continent, हालांकि the बहुमत of Mormons सजीव outside the United राज्य.
mormons have विकसित a दमदार भाव of communality that तना from उनके doctrine और इतिहास.
दौरान the 19th century Mormon converts tended to gather to a सेंट्रल भौगोलिक स्थान, and between 1852 और 1890 a minority of Mormons खुलकर practiced plural विवाह, a form of धार्मिक polygamy.
Mormons dedicate विशाल amounts of समय and संसाधन to सेवारत in उनके गिरिजाघर, और many यंग Mormons चुनें to serve a full-time proselytizing mission.
mormons have a health कोड कि eschews alcoholic beverages, तम्बाकू, कॉफी, चाय, और अन्य addictive substances.
वे tend to be बहुत family-oriented, and have दमदार connections across पीढियां और साथ विस्तारित family, परावर्तक of उनके विश्वास कि families can be sealed साथ beyond मौत and throughout शाश्वत.
Mormons also have a सख्त law of शुद्धता, requiring abstention from यौन संबंध outside of विवाह and सख्त fidelity within marriage.
mormons self-identify as Christian, हालांकि some of their मान्यताओं differ इससे mainstream christianity.
Mormons मानना in the Bible, as well as अन्य किताबे of scripture, ऐसे as the Book of mormon.
वे have a अद्वितीय view of cosmology, and मानना कि सब लोगों are spirit-children of God.
mormons believe कि returning to God requires following the उदाहरण of Jesus Christ, और accepting उसके atonement through ordinances ऐसे as बपतिस्मा.
वे मानना that मसीह 's गिरिजाघर was लौटी through जोसेफ Smith, and is हिदायत by living नबियों and रसूलों.
सेंट्रल to Mormon faith is the विश्वास कि परमेश्वर बोलती to उसके children और जवाब उनके prayers.
In financial accounting, एसेट हैं economic संसाधन.
Anything ठोस or intangible कि is capable of होने owned or controlled to produce मान and that is आयोजित to have positive economic value is माना an एसेट.
बस stated, assets represent value of स्वामित्व कि can be परिवर्तित into cash ( हालांकि cash itself is भी माना an एसेट ).
The संतुलन चादर of a कड़ records the monetaryj.
G. siegel, N. Dauber & J. K. shim, `` the बनियान जेब CPA '', Wiley, 2005.There हैं अलग विधि of assessing the मौद्रिक value of the assets अंकित on the संतुलन चादर.
in some cases, the Historical Cost is used ; such कि the मान of the asset जब it was खरीदा in the पास्ट is प्रयुक्त as the monetary मान.
in अन्य instances, the उपस्थित मेला market value of the एसेट is प्रयुक्त to determine the मान दिखाया on the संतुलन चादर.
value of the assets स्वामित्व by the कड़.
It is धन and other valuables belonging to an individual or कारोबार.
दो प्रमुख asset वर्ग हैं ठोस assets और intangible एसेट.
ठोस एसेट contain विभिन्न subclasses, सहित current assets and फिक्स्ड assets.j.
downes, J.E. गुडमैन, `` शब्दकोष of वित्त & निवेश Terms '', Baron 's वित्तीय मार्गदर्शिका, 2003 वर्तमान एसेट शामिल inventory, while फिक्स्ड एसेट include ऐसे वस्तुएं as buildings और equipment.J. downes, J.E. Goodman, `` शब्दकोष of Finance & Investment Terms '', Baron 's वित्तीय मार्गदर्शिका, 2003 ; and J. G. siegel, N. dauber & J. K. shim, `` the बनियान जेब cpa '', wiley, 2005.
intangible assets are nonphysical संसाधन and rights that have a मान to the कड़ because they दे the firm कुछ दयालु of लाभ in the मार्केट प्लेस.
उदाहरण of intangible एसेट are साख, copyrights, trademarks, patents and कंप्यूटर programs, और financial assets, सहित such items as खाते receivable, bonds और स्टॉक्स.
a न्यूरॉन ( or ; also known as a neurone or तंत्रिका cell ) is an electrically excitable कोशिका कि प्रक्रियाओं और transmits सूचना through विद्युत और chemical signals.
a रासायनिक सिग्नल occurs via a अन्तर्ग्रथन, a specialized connection with अन्य cells.
Neurons कनेक्ट to प्रत्येक अन्य to रूप neural संजाल.
Neurons हैं the core components of the बेचैन प्रणाली, which शामिल the brain, स्पाइनल cord, और peripheral ganglia.
a number of specialized प्रकार of न्यूरॉन्स मौजूद : संवेदी न्यूरॉन्स respond to टच, ध्वनि, लाइट और numerous other stimuli affecting कोशिकाएं of the संवेदी organs that तब भेजें signals to the स्पाइनल cord and brain.
Motor न्यूरॉन्स receive signals इससे the दिमाग and spinal cord, cause muscle contractions, और affect ग्रंथियों.
interneurons कनेक्ट न्यूरॉन्स to अन्य neurons भीतर the same प्रदेश of the दिमाग or स्पाइनल cord.
a ठेठ न्यूरॉन possesses a cell body ( प्रायः पुकारा the सोम ), dendrites, and an axon.
dendrites हैं पतला structures कि उठता इससे the कोशिका देह, often extending लिये सैंकड़ों of micrometres और branching अनेक टाइम्स, giving वृद्धि to a जटिल `` dendritic tree ''.
an axon is a special cellular एक्सटेंशन that arises इससे the cell देह at a site पुकारा the axon hillock and travels for a अलहदा, as दूर as 1 मीटर in इंसानो or even more in other species.
the कोशिका देह of a neuron frequently देता वृद्धि to अनेक dendrites, लकिन never to अधिक than एक axon, हालांकि the axon may branch सैंकड़ों of times before it terminates.
at the majority of synapses, सिग्नल are भेजा इससे the axon of एक neuron to a dendrite of another.
There हैं, however, अनेक exceptions to ये rules : neurons कि lack dendrites, न्यूरॉन्स कि have no axon, synapses that connect an axon to another axon or a dendrite to another dendrite, etc.
All न्यूरॉन्स हैं electrically excitable, maintaining वोल्टेज gradients आरपार their झिल्लियों by means of metabolically चलित ion pumps, जिससे combine साथ आयन चैनल्स embedded in the झिल्ली to generate intracellular-versus-extracellular concentration मतभेद of ions such as सोडियम, पोटैशियम, chloride, और कैल्सियम.
परिवर्तन in the cross-membrane voltage can alter the फलन of voltage-dependent ion चैनल्स.
if the वोल्टेज changes by a large enough amount, an all-or-none electrochemical पल्स called an कार्रवाई संभावित is उत्पन्न, जिससे ट्रेवल्स rapidly along the कोशिका 's axon, और activates सिनेप्टिक connections with अन्य कोशिकाएं when it आगमन.
Neurons do नहीं undergo cell division.
In most cases, न्यूरॉन्स are generated by खास types of स्टेम कोशिकाएं.
astrocytes, a type of glial cell, have भी महरूम observed to फेरे into neurons by पुण्य of the stem कोशिका characteristic pluripotency.
In humans, neurogenesis largely ceases during adulthood—but in two दिमाग क्षेत्रों, the hippocampus और olfactory बल्ब, वहीँ is दमदार evidence for generation of substantial संख्याएँ of नई न्यूरॉन्स.
Super कटोरी XLIII was an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल खेल between the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc ) चैंपियन पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स and the नेशनल Football सम्मेलन ( NFC ) चैंपियन Arizona कार्डिनल्स to decide the नेशनल Football लीग ( एनएफएल ) champion for the 2008 season.
the स्टीलर्स defeated the कार्डिनल्स by the स्कोर of 27–23.
the खेल थी played on February 1, 2009, at Raymond James Stadium in tampa, Florida.
With this जीत, the स्टीलर्स became the first टोली to जीत छह सुपर प्याले.
पिट्सबर्ग, जो समाप्त the नियमित season साथ a 12–4 रिकार्ड, also जीती their दूसरी Super कटोरी in four सालो बाद जीतना Super कटोरी XL at the end of the 2005 ऋतु.
The कार्डिनल्स entered the खेल seeking their पहला NFL title चूंकि 1947, the longest चैंपियनशिप सूखा in the लीग.
The club became an अनपेक्षित winner दौरान the regular season, compiling a 9–7 record, और the playoffs with the सहायता of head coach केन Whisenhunt, जो थी the Steelers ' अप्रिय समन्वयक in सुपर कटोरी xl, और the re-emergence of क्वार्टरबैक Kurt Warner, जो was the Super कटोरी mvp in सुपर कटोरी XXXIV with his former टोली, St. लुई Rams.
पिट्सबर्ग कूद to a 17–7 मध्यांतर lead, aided by linebacker जेम्स हैरिसन 's Super Bowl record 100-yard interception return for a touchdown.
trailing 20–7 at the start of the चौथी quarter, एरिज़ोना scored 16 अनुत्तरित अंक, सहित wide receiver Larry Fitzgerald 's 64-yard touchdown रिसेप्शन, to लो the lead साथ 2:37 बाकी in the game.
But the स्टीलर्स marched 78 गज to स्कोर on चौड़ी receiver santonio holmes ' 6-yard game-winning touchdown catch with 35 seconds बाएँ.
holmes, जो caught नौ गुजरता लिये 131 yards और a touchdown, including four receptions लिये 73 गज on कि final game-winning drive, थी named Super Bowl MVP.
He became the छठे चौड़ी receiver to जीत the award, and also थी the तीसरा पिट्सबर्ग receiver to win the award, following Lynn swann and hines वार्ड.
Despite the वैश्विक वित्तीय crisis और सीमित amount of आनुषंगिक festivities कि हैं सामान्यतः आयोजित पहले the खेल, the एनबीसी टेलीविज़न संजाल ब्रॉडकास्ट आकर्षित an average u.S. audience of 98.7 million viewers, बनाना it the most देखी Super कटोरी in इतिहास to कि point.
a आरेख of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक spectrum, प्रर्दशित विभिन्न गुण across the दायरा of बारंबारता और wavelengths
The इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम is the दायरा of सब possible बारंबारता of electromagnetic विकिरण.
the `` electromagnetic वर्णक्रम '' of an object has a अलग meaning, and is बजाय the characteristic distribution of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक radiation उत्सर्जित or अवशोषित by that particular ऑब्जेक्ट.
the electromagnetic वर्णक्रम extends इससे नीचे the कम बारंबारता used लिये modern रेडियो communication to gamma विकिरण at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) समाप्त, thereby covering wavelengths इससे thousands of kilometers bas to a भिन्न of the आकार of an अणु.
The सीमा लिये long wavelengths is the size of the ब्रह्मांड itself, while it is विचार that the छोटी wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the Planck लंबाई, हालांकि in principle the वर्णक्रम is अनन्त और निरन्तर.
सबसे भाग of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक spectrum are used in विज्ञान लिये spectroscopic and other probing interactions, as तरीके to study और characterize matter.
in addition, radiation इससे विभिन्न parts of the वर्णक्रम रै मिला many other उपयोग for संचार and निर्माण ( देखिए इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक radiation लिये more अनुप्रयोग ).
Legend
Marchantia, a liverwort
ब्रायोफाइटा is a परंपरागत नाम प्रयुक्त to refer to सब embryophytes ( जमीन पौधे ) कि do not have सच्चा vascular ऊतक और हैं इसलिए पुकारा ' non-vascular plants '.
कुछ bryophytes do have specialized ऊतकों लिये the हस्तांतरण of जल ; however चूंकि these do नहीं contain lignin, वे हैं नहीं considered to be true vascular tissue.
फिलहाल bryophytes हैं thought नहीं to be a प्राकृतिक or monophyletic group ; however the name is convenient और remains in उपयोग as a collective पद for mosses, hornworts, and liverworts.
Bryophytes उपज enclosed reproductive structures ( gametangia and sporangia ), but they produce neither पुष्प nor बीज, reproducing via बीजाणुओं.
the पद bryophyte आता इससे Greek βρύον, bryon, `` tree-moss, oyster-green '' + φυτόν - phyton `` संयंत्र ''.
a बैंको is a वित्तीय institution and a वित्तीय intermediary कि accepts जमा and चैनल्स those जमा into lending क्रियाएँ, either directly by loaning or indirectly through पूंजी बाज़ार.
a बैंको is the कनेक्शन between customers कि have पूंजी deficits and customers with capital surpluses.
Due to their influence भीतर a वित्तीय प्रणाली और an अर्थव्यवस्था, banks हैं generally अत्यधिक regulated in सबसे countries.
सबसे बैंको operate अंतर्गत a प्रणाली ज्ञात as fractional आरक्षित बैंकिंग जहाँ वे थाम only a छोटी आरक्षित of the निधि deposited और lend आउट the बाकी लिये profit.
They are generally विषय to न्यूनतम पूंजी आवश्यकताएँ which हैं based on an अंतरराष्ट्रीय set of पूंजी मानकों, known as the basel accords.
the oldest bank still in existence is मोंटे देई Paschi di Siena, headquartered in सियेना, इटली, which रै been operating continuously चूंकि 1472.
It is followed by berenberg Bank of Hamburg ( 1590 ) and sveriges riksbank of Sweden ( 1668 ).
Banking in its modern भाव evolved in समृद्ध शहरों of पुनर्जागरण Italy, such as फ्लोरेंस, Venice और जेनोआ.
in the history of बैंकिंग, a number of बैंकिंग dynasties —among them notably medici, fugger, welser, berenberg, baring and Rothschild —have निभाई a सेंट्रल role over अनेक centuries.
the Xbox is a video खेल console manufactured by microsoft.
it थी released on नवम्बर 15, 2001 in North अमेरिका, फ़रवरी 22, 2002 in जापानी, and कूच 14, 2002 in Australia and यूरोपीय.
it थी microsoft 's first foray into the गेमिंग कंसोल मार्केट.
as part of the sixth-generation of gaming, the एक्सबॉक्स competed साथ सोनी 's प्लेस्टेशन 2, Sega 's Dreamcast ( which stopped अमरीकी बिक्री पहले the एक्सबॉक्स गई on sale ), और निन्टेंडो 's gamecube.
The Xbox थी the first कंसोल offered by an American कम्पनी after the Atari जैगुआर stopped sales in 1996.
The एकीकृत Xbox सजीव सेवा launched in नवम्बर 2002 allowed players to खेल खेल online साथ a ब्रॉडबैंड connection.
it पहला competed साथ Dreamcast 's ऑनलाइन service लकिन बाद primarily competed with PlayStation 2 's online सेवा.
हालांकि these two हैं फ़्री जबकि Xbox सजीव जरूरी a सब्सक्रिप्शन, as खूब as broadband-only कनेक्शन जिससे was नहीं completely अपनाया yet, एक्सबॉक्स Live was a कामयाबी due to बेहतर सर्वर, सुविधाएँ such as a दोस्त सूची, and milestone titles जैसे हेलो 2 released in नवम्बर 2004, which is the best-selling Xbox वीडियो खेल और थी by दूर the सबसे लोकप्रिय ऑनलाइन खेल लिये सालो.
एक्सबॉक्स 's successor, the एक्सबॉक्स 360, थी शुभारम्भ in November 2005.
the Xbox थी discontinued in लेट 2005 in जापानी जहाँ बिक्री यहूद ग़रीब.
It was discontinued in late 2006 in Europe and early 2007 in North अमेरिका.
the पिछला Xbox game in यूरोपीय थी Tony हॉक 's प्रोजेक्ट 8 released in नवम्बर 2006, और the पिछला खेल in उत्तर अमेरिका थी मैडेन एनएफएल 09 released in August 2008.
support for out-of-warranty Xbox consoles थी discontinued on कूच 2, 2009, stating that कोई in-warranty repair now needed will not be undertaken.
एक्सबॉक्स अभिगम to Xbox सजीव थी stopped on अप्रैल 15, 2010.
the इन्जील According to जॉन ( Greek τὸ κατὰ ἰωάννην εὐαγγέλιον ), commonly referred to as the Gospel of John or simply John and प्रायः referred to in New Testament scholarship as the चौथी Gospel, is an account of the पब्लिक मंत्रालय of Jesus.
It begins with the witness and प्रतिज्ञान by जॉन the Baptist और concludes साथ the death, दफ़न, resurrection, और post-resurrection appearances of Jesus.
This account is चौथी of the canonical gospels, after the synoptics मैथ्यू, चिह्नित और ल्यूक.
राज्य कि the book derives from the गवाही of the ' शिष्य जिसको यीशु loved. '
Along साथ पीटर, the unnamed शिष्य is विशेषकर बंद to यीशु, और early-church tradition identified उसे as जॉन the apostle, एक of यीशु ' बारह रसूलों.
the gospel is closely सम्बन्धित in style और सामग्री to the three surviving epistles of जॉन such कि टीकाकारों दावत the four किताबे साथ, yet, according to सबसे आधुनिक scholars, जॉन थी नहीं the author of कोई of ये किताबे.
Recent Christian Scripture scholarship अधिक और अधिक has लगाई जॉन भीतर a first-century यहूदी context.
रेमंड E. Brown किया pioneering कार्य to trace the विकास of the परंपरा from जिससे the gospel arose.
The discourses seem to be concerned साथ the actual मुद्दे of the church-and-synagogue बहस at the time जब the इन्जील was लिखा.
it is notable that, in the gospel, the community स्टिल appears to define itself primarily against judaism, बल्कि than as भाग of a wider Christian गिरिजाघर.
हालांकि christianity started as a गति भीतर judaism, धीरे ईसाइयों and Jews became bitterly opposed.
John presents a `` higher '' christology than the synoptics, meaning कि it describes यीशु as the incarnation of the दैवी लोगो through जिसको all बाते यहूद बना, as the ऑब्जेक्ट of veneration, और अधिक explicitly as परमेश्वर incarnate.
तभी in जॉन करता यीशु talk at length about himself और his divine भूमिका, प्रायः shared with the disciples तभी.
विरूद्ध the synoptics, जॉन focuses largely on अलग चमत्कार ( सहित resurrecting lazarus ), given as लक्षण meant to engender आस्था.
synoptic elements ऐसे as parables and exorcisms are नहीं मिला in जॉन.
It presents a एहसास eschatology in which मोक्ष is already उपस्थित लिये the believer.
The plagues of Egypt ( ), also called the टेन plagues ( ) or the Biblical Plagues, यहूद ten calamities कि, according to the biblical Book of Exodus, इसराईल 's God, yahweh, inflicted upon Egypt to राजी Pharaoh to रिलीज the ill-treated israelites इससे गुलामी.
Pharaoh capitulated after the tenth प्लेग, triggering the exodus of the Jewish people.
the plagues यहूद designed to contrast the शक्ति of Yahweh साथ the impotence of मिश्र 's various gods.
Some टीकाकारों have संबद्ध several of the plagues with निर्णय on specific gods संबद्ध साथ the Nile, प्रजनन और प्राकृतिक phenomena.
the plagues of मिश्र हैं also mentioned in the कुरान ( 7,133–136 ).
According to the किताब of Exodus, परमेश्वर proclaims कि सब the देवताओं of Egypt will be judged through the दसवाँ and फाइनल plague:
John मार्टिन 's painting of the प्लेग of hail और आग ( 1823 ).
a role-playing खेल ( आरपीजी and sometimes roleplaying game ) is a game in which खिलाड़ी assume the भूमिकाएँ of वर्ण in a fictional setting.
खिलाड़ी take जिम्मेदारी लिये एक्टिंग आउट ये भूमिकाएँ भीतर a कथा, either through शाब्दिक एक्टिंग or through a प्रक्रम of structured decision-making or अक्षर development.
क्रियाएँ लिया भीतर many खेल succeed or fail according to a औपचारिक प्रणाली of नियम और guidelines.
वहीँ हैं several फ़ॉर्म of RPG.
The original form, sometimes पुकारा the tabletop RPG, is conducted through चर्चा, whereas in सजीव कार्रवाई role-playing खेल ( LARP ) players physically perform उनके characters ' actions.
In both of these फ़ॉर्म, an arranger पुकारा a खेल master ( GM ) प्रायः decides on the नियम and setting to be used and अधिनियमों as referee, जबकि प्रत्येक of the other players plays the भूमिका of a single अक्षर.
अनेक किस्में of RPG also मौजूद in इलेक्ट्रॉनिक मीडिया, ऐसे as multi-player text-based muds and उनके graphics-based successors, massively multiplayer ऑनलाइन role-playing games ( mmorpgs ).
role-playing games also include single-player ऑफ़लाइन role-playing वीडियो खेल in which खिलाड़ी control a अक्षर or team जो undertake quests, and may शामिल capabilities that अग्रिम using सांख्यिकीय यांत्रिकी.
ये खेल प्रायः share जमावट and नियम साथ tabletop rpgs, लकिन emphasize character उन्नति अधिक than collaborative storytelling.
despite इस variety of forms, some खेल फ़ॉर्म ऐसे as व्यापार कार्ड खेल and wargames कि are सम्बन्धित to role-playing games may नहीं be included.
role-playing कार्यकलाप may sometimes be उपस्थित in such games, लकिन it is नहीं the प्राथमिक फ़ोकस.
the term is also sometimes प्रयुक्त to describe लिए simulation खेल और exercises प्रयुक्त in शिक्षण, training, and अकादमिक शोध.
the American Civil War ( acw ), भी known as the War between the राज्य or simply the सिविल War ( देखिए नामकरण ), थी a सिविल war fought इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) और अनेक Southern स्लेव राज्य कि घोषित their secession and formed the confederate राज्य of America ( the `` confederacy '' or the `` दक्षिण '' ).
The war had its उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of गुलामी, विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into the पश्चिमी territories.
Foreign powers did not intervene.
After four years of bloody कॉम्बैट that बाएँ over 600,000 सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery थी abolished, और the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण process of restoring नेशनल एकता और guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential चुनाव, republicans, led by अब्राहम lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United राज्य ' territories.
lincoln won, लकिन पहले उसके inauguration on कूच 4, 1861, सात cotton-based स्लेव states formed the confederacy.
outgoing Democratic अध्यक्ष James बुकानन और the आवक republicans rejected secession as illegal.
lincoln 's inaugural पता घोषित his प्रशासन होता नहीं initiate civil युद्ध.
आठ बाकी स्लेव राज्य जारी to reject काल्स for secession.
Confederate शक्तियां seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy.
a Peace Conference failed to ढूँढें a compromise, और दोनो पहलू prepared लिये war.
the confederates assumed that European देशों यहूद so dependent on `` किंग कपास `` that they होता intervene ; none did और none पहचाना the नई confederate राज्य of अमेरिका.
hostilities began on अप्रैल 12, 1861, जब confederate forces fired upon फोर्ट Sumter, a key fort आयोजित by Union troops in South Carolina.
lincoln पुकारा for प्रत्येक राज्य to provide सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट ; consequently, four more स्लेव states joined the confederacy, bringing their total to ग्यारह.
The Union जल्द controlled the border राज्य और established a naval blockade that अबोध the दक्षिणी economy.
the पूर्वी थिएटर थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
the पतझड़ 1862 Confederate अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a Union राज्य ) ended with confederate रिट्रीट at the बैटल of antietam, dissuading British हस्तक्षेप.
Lincoln जारी the emancipation Proclamation, which made समाप्ति गुलामी a युद्ध लक्ष्य.
to the वेस्ट, by summer 1862 the संघ destroyed the Confederate river नेवी, तब much of उनके पश्चिमी सेना, और the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
in 1863, रॉबर्ट E. ली 's confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the Battle of gettysburg.
Western successes led to Ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of सब संघ सेना in 1864.
In the पश्चिमी थिएटर, विलियम T. शरमन drove ईस्ट to capture अटलांटा और marched to the sea, destroying confederate infrastructure साथ the रास्ता.
The Union marshaled the संसाधन और जनशक्ति to आक्रमण the confederacy from सब दिशानिर्देश, और could afford to लड़ो battles of अपघर्षण through the Overland अभियान towards रिचमंड, the Confederate capital.
the defending confederate फौज विफल, अग्रणी to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to Grant at appomattox अदालत हाउस on अप्रैल 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was one of the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक युद्धों.
Railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, और mass-produced हथियार यहूद employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, खानों, shipyards, बैंको, परिवहन और खाना supplies सब foreshadowed संसार War I.
It remains the deadliest युद्ध in अमरीकी history, resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined number of civilian हताहत.
इतिहासकार जॉन huddleston estimates the मौत टोल at ten प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 years old, and 30 प्रतिशत of सब Southern श्वेत males aged 18–40.
the definition of the संसार 's व्यस्ततम विमानक्षेत्र has been निर्दिष्ट by the एयरपोर्ट Council International in Geneva, स्विट्ज़रलैंड.
the ACI defines and उपायों the following three प्रकार of airport traffic:
यात्री traffic : कुल यात्री emplaned and deplaned, passengers in पारगमन गिने once
कार्गो ट्रैफ़िक : loaded और unloaded freight और मेल in metric tonnes
ट्रैफ़िक movements : अवतरण और take-offs of वायुयान
संसार War i ( wwi ) थी a वैश्विक युद्ध centred in Europe कि began on 28 जुलाई 1914 और lasted until 11 नवम्बर 1918.
it थी predominantly called the World युद्ध or the ग्रेट War from its occurrence जबतक the start of संसार War II in 1939, और the First संसार War or World युद्ध I thereafter.
it involved सब the world 's ग्रेट powers, जिससे were assembled in दो opposing alliances : the allies ( आधारित on the ट्रिपल entente of the संयुक्त Kingdom, France और Russia ) और the Central Powers ( originally the Triple गठबंधन of Germany, austria-hungary and इटली ; but, as Austria–Hungary था लिया the अप्रिय विरूद्ध the अनुबंध, Italy did नहीं डालें into the war ).
These alliances यहूद both reorganised and expanded as more राष्ट्र डाला the war : इटली, Japan और the United राज्य joined the Allies, और the उस्मानी साम्राज्य और बुल्गारिया the सेंट्रल शक्तियां.
ultimately, more than 70 लाख military कर्मियों, including 60 million Europeans, were mobilised in एक of the largest wars in इतिहास.
अधिक than 9 लाख combatants यहूद मारे, largely क्युकी of technological advancements कि led to विशाल increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर corresponding सुधार in सुरक्षा or गतिशीलता.
It was the fifth- deadliest विरोध in संसार इतिहास, subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये various political changes, such as revolutions in many of the nations शामिल.
One of the long-term कल्याणकारी of the war was the पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in the विदेशी policies of the ग्रेट powers of यूरोपीय.
अधिक immediately, the assassination of archduke फ्रांज Ferdinand of ऑस्ट्रिया, the वारिस to the सिंहासन of austria-hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव nationalist gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic संकट जब austria-hungary subsequently वितरित an ultimatum to the किंगडम of सर्बिया.
Several alliances formed over the previous decades were invoked.
भीतर सप्ताह, the major शक्तियां यहूद at युद्ध और, via their colonies, the conflict जल्द स्प्रेड around the world.
On 28 जुलाई, the austro-hungarians fired the पहला shots of the war as तैयारी लिये the आक्रमण of Serbia.
जबकि the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम और ध्वज on the रास्ता to France, providing a casus belli for Britain 's घोषणा of युद्ध विरूद्ध Germany.
After the जर्मनी कूच on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the marne —the Western सामने settled into a स्थिर बैटल of अपघर्षण साथ a trench लकीर that changed little जबतक 1917.
on the Eastern Front, the रूसी army थी कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians, लकिन was रोका in its आक्रमण of ईस्ट prussia by the germans.
in नवम्बर the उस्मानी Empire joined the war, खोलने up fronts in the काकेशस, मेसोपोटामिया and the Sinai.
इटली और बुल्गारिया गई to युद्ध in 1915 और Romania in 1916.
in Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in कूच 1917 और a subsequent revolution in नवम्बर brought the russians to शर्तें साथ the Central शक्तियां.
बाद a 1918 German अप्रिय along the पश्चिमी front, the allies drove back the germans in a श्रेणी of successful offensives and American शक्तियां began प्रवेश the trenches.
Germany, which था इसके own trouble साथ revolutionaries, सहमत to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
the युद्ध ended in विजय लिये the allies.
Events on the घर fronts were as उग्र as on the battle fronts, as the participants आजमाया to mobilize their जनशक्ति और आर्थिक resources to लड़ो a कुल युद्ध.
by the समाप्त of the युद्ध, four major imperial powers—the जर्मनी, रूसी, austro-hungarian और Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
the successor states of the former दो खोया a ग्रेट राशि of territory, while the latter दो यहूद dismantled entirely.
the map of सेंट्रल यूरोपीय was redrawn into अनेक छोटी states.
the लीग of Nations थी formed in the hope of preventing another ऐसे विरोध.
the European राष्ट्रवाद शाखित by the war और the ब्रेकअप of empires, the परखना of जर्मनी 's defeat और problems साथ the Treaty of versailles are सहमत to be factors contributing to World War ii.
The Deepwater Horizon oil spill ( भी referred to as the BP आयल spill, the BP oil विपत्ति, the Gulf of मैक्सिको आयल spill, and the macondo blowout ) थी an oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico on the BP -operated macondo Prospect, माना the largest accidental marine oil spill in the इतिहास of the पेट्रोलियम industry, estimated to be between 8 % and 31 % larger in volume than the पहले Ixtoc i आयल spill.
following the विस्फोट और डूब of the deepwater क्षितिज oil रिग, जिससे claimed 11 जीवनदान, a sea-floor आयल gusher flowed unabated for 87 दिनों, जबतक it was capped on 15 July 2010.
the कुल निर्वहन is estimated at.
a massive response ensued to protect beaches, वेटलैंड्स and मुहानों इससे the spreading आयल utilizing skimmer जहाजों, floating booms, controlled burns and of Corexit आयल dispersant.
बाद अनेक विफल efforts to contain the प्रवाह, the खूब थी घोषित sealed on 19 सितंबर 2010.
कुछ reports indicate the खूब site continues to लीक.
due to the months-long spill, साथ साथ adverse प्रभाव इससे the जवाब and क्लीनअप क्रियाएँ, extensive damage to समुद्री and wildlife habitats, फ़िशिंग और tourism उद्योग, और इंसान health problems have जारी through 2013.Three सालो बाद the spill, तारकोल balls could स्टिल be मिला on the मिसिसिपी coast.
numerous investigations छान the कल्याणकारी of the विस्फोट और record-setting spill.
notably, the u.S. सरकारी 's सितंबर 2011 report pointed to defective सीमेंट on the खूब, faulting mostly bp, but भी खूब ऑपरेटर Transocean और ठेकेदार halliburton.
पहले in 2011, a White हाउस आयोग likewise blamed bp और its partners लिये a series of cost-cutting निर्णय और an insufficient सुरक्षा system, लकिन also concluded that the spill resulted इससे `` systemic '' रूट causes and `` अनुपस्थित significant reform in दोनो industry practices और सरकारी policies, might well recur ''.
in November 2012, BP and the संयुक्त राज्य Department of इंसाफ settled संघीय दण्ड आरोप with bp pleading अपराधी to 11 counts of manslaughter, two misdemeanors, and a felony count of lying to Congress.
bp भी agreed to चार सालो of government निगरानी of its सुरक्षा practices और आचार, and the पर्यावरणीय Protection Agency announced कि BP would be temporarily बैन from new अनुबंध साथ the us सरकारी.
bp और the विभाग of इंसाफ सहमत to a record-setting $ 4.525 billion in जुर्माना and अन्य payments but further legal proceedings not expected to conclude जबतक 2014 are ongoing to determine payouts and fines अंतर्गत the Clean जल अधिनियम and the प्राकृतिक संसाधन क्षति मूल्यांकन.
as of फ़रवरी 2013, दण्ड and civil settlements और payments to a trust fund था लागत the कम्पनी $ 42.2 billion.
`` जहाँ the गलियों have No Name '' is a song by rock बैंड U2.
it is the opening track इससे their 1987 album the जोशुआ पेड़ and थी released as the album 's third सिंगल in August 1987.
the song 's आँकड़ा is a repeating गिटार arpeggio using a delay प्रभाव, निभाई दौरान the सोंग 's introduction and again at the समाप्त.
सीसे vocalist बोनो लिखा the गीत in जवाब to the notion कि it is संभावित to पहचानो a person 's religion और income based on the गली on which they जिया, particularly in belfast.
During the band 's कठिनाइयों recording the सोंग, निर्माता ब्रायन Eno considered erasing the सोंग 's टेपों to have them start from खरोंच.
`` Where the गलियों have no नाम '' was praised by critics and became a वाणिज्यिक success, peaking at क्रमांक thirteen in the us, क्रमांक fourteen in कनाडा, क्रमांक ten in the Netherlands, और क्रमांक चार in the United किंगडम.
The सोंग रै become एक of the band 's most लोकप्रिय गीतों and रै remained a स्टेपल of उनके live act since the सोंग debuted in 1987 on the जोशुआ Tree दौरे.
the सोंग was notably performed on a Los एंजिल्स rooftop लिये the फिल्मांकन of इसके music video, which जीती a Grammy Award for Best प्रदर्शन Music वीडियो.Recently the सोंग रै been used by the एनएफएल 's बाल्टीमोर ravens as उनके प्रवेश सोंग in सुपर Bowl xlvii
Thomas जेफरी `` tom '' Hanks ( born जुलाई 9, 1956 ) is an अमरीकी कर्ता, producer, लेखक, और निदेशक.
हैंक्स is ज्ञात लिये उसके roles in अपोलो 13, बिग, That Thing तुम do !
, the Green मील, You 've मिला Mail, Sleepless in Seattle, चार्ली विल्सन 's युद्ध, कैच Me If तुम Can, Forrest Gump, डाल Away, A लीग of उनके Own, the Da विंची कोड, फ़रिश्ते & राक्षसों, as खूब as animated films like the खिलौना स्टोरी film series, The Polar एक्स्प्रेस, and the Simpsons फिल्म.
he has earned और महरूम nominated for numerous पुरस्कार during his career, सहित जीतना a सुनहरी Globe for Best कर्ता और an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Actor लिये his role in Philadelphia और a Golden Globe, an अकादमी पुरस्कार, a Screen Actors Guild पुरस्कार, और a People 's चुनाव पुरस्कार for बेहतरीन Actor लिये उसके भूमिका in फॉरेस्ट गंप, और कमाई the स्टेनली Kubrick britannia पुरस्कार for Excellence in फिल्मी इससे the BAFTAs in 2004.
हैंक्स is भी ज्ञात for his सहयोग साथ film director स्टीवन Spielberg on Saving निजी Ryan और the mini-series बैंड of भाइयो, which launched Hanks भी as a कामयाब निदेशक, निर्माता और लेखक.
as of 2012, Hanks ' films have grossed over $ 4.2 billion at the United राज्य बक्सा दफ्तर अलोन, and over $ 8.5 billion विश्वव्यापी making him the उच्चतम all-time बक्सा दफ्तर स्टार.
The केप is an American सुपरहीरो नाटक श्रेणी.
It premiered on एनबीसी दौरान the 2010–2011 television season as a mid-season बदलना शुरूआत साथ a two-hour पायलट एपीसोड on संडे, January 9, 2011 at 9 pm Eastern और प्रशांत समय.
an encore played on सोमवार, January 10, साथ follow-up एपीसोड continuing on Monday evenings in the 9 pm timeslot शुरूआत on जनवरी 17.
एनबीसी subsequently काटें the कुल number of एपीसोड to be aired from 13 to 10 as a परिणाम of कम दरजा.
on कूच 2, 2011, एनबीसी announced that the series finale would only be aired on the संजाल 's website.
Halley 's धूमकेतु or Comet हैली ( or ), officially designated 1P/Halley, is the best-known of the short-period धूमकेतुओं और is दृश्य इससे धरती every 75–76 सालो.
हैली is the only short-period धूमकेतु कि is clearly दृश्य to the नग्न eye इससे धरती, and यूँ the तभी naked-eye comet कि might appear twice in a human आजीवन.
अन्य naked-eye धूमकेतुओं may be उज्जवल and अधिक spectacular, but होगा appear तभी once in हज़ारों of years.
हैली 's रिटर्न to the भीतरी Solar System have been observed and अंकित by खगोलशास्त्रियों चूंकि at least 240 BCE.
साफ रिकॉर्ड of the comet 's दिखावे यहूद made by Chinese, babylonian, और medieval यूरोपीय chroniclers, but were नहीं पहचाना as reappearances of the वही object at the समय.
the धूमकेतु 's periodicity थी पहला संकल्पित in 1705 by अंग्रेज़ी astronomer edmond हैली, बाद जिसको it is अभी नामित.
Halley 's Comet last appeared in the भीतरी सौर प्रणाली in 1986 and होगा next appear in mid-2061.
दौरान इसके 1986 apparition, Halley became the first धूमकेतु to be observed in detail by spacecraft, providing the पहला observational data on the ढांचा of a comet केंद्रक and the यांत्रिकी of coma and tail formation.
ये observations supported a क्रमांक of longstanding hypotheses परिचय धूमकेतु निर्माण, particularly फ्रेड whipple 's `` dirty snowball '' मॉडल, which correctly predicted कि Halley would be रचित of a mixture of volatile ices – such as जल, कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड and अमोनिया – और धूल.
the missions also provided आंकड़ा जिससे substantially reformed और reconfigured ये विचार ; लिये instance it is अभी समझा कि हैली 's सतह is largely रचित of dusty, non-volatile सामग्री, और कि only a small portion of it is icy.
The following is a सूची of the सबसे populous incorporated places of the संयुक्त States of अमेरिका.
as defined by the United राज्य जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो, an `` incorporated प्लेस `` शामिल a किस्में of designations, सहित city, कस्बा, village, बरो, और municipality.
a few असाधारण जनसांख्यिकी Designated स्थान ( CDPs ) हैं भी शामिल in the जनसांख्यिकी Bureau 's listing of incorporated places.
Consolidated city-counties represent a पृथक type of सरकारी कि शामिल the संपूर्ण जनसांख्यिकी of a काउंटी, or county equivalent.
कुछ संचित city-counties, however, शामिल multiple incorporated places.
This सूची presents तभी कि portion ( or `` balance '' ) of such संचित city-counties कि are not a भाग of another incorporated प्लेस.
Note कि इस सूची refers तभी to the जनसांख्यिकी of individual municipalities within उनके पारिभाषित हद, जिससे does नहीं include अन्य municipalities or unincorporated suburban क्षेत्रों भीतर शहरी agglomerations.
a अलग रैंकिंग is evident जब considering U.S. महानगर क्षेत्रफल populations.
the mayflower थी the जलयान कि in 1620 transported 102 अंग्रेज़ी Pilgrims, सहित a कोर समूह of Separatists, to नई इंग्लैण्ड.
उनके story is एक of travail और survival in a हर्ष New संसार पर्यावरण.
A नई जीलैंड forward ( in श्वेत ) takes a shot on goal विरूद्ध कैमरून in the 2011 फीफा u-20 World Cup.
Forwards, भी ज्ञात as strikers, हैं the players on a team in association football जो खेल निकटतम to the opposing टोली 's goal, और are therefore प्रधानतया जिम्मेदार for scoring लक्ष्य.
This बहुत उन्नत position और इसके सीमित रक्षात्मक जिम्मेदारियों औसत आगे normally स्कोर अधिक goals than other खिलाड़ी.
इस position requires intelligence, speed, and शक्ति, दोनो of निष्पादन और of विचार, to perform the भूमिका well.
आधुनिक टोली formations प्रायः शामिल one to तीन आगे ; दो is the सबसे common.
कोच typically field एक स्ट्राइकर जो plays in an उन्नत स्थिति ( the केन्द्र आगे ), और another attacking आगे who plays somewhat deeper और assists in बनाना लक्ष्य as खूब as स्कोरिंग ( the दूसरी स्ट्राइकर ).
it should be विख्यात कि अंदर आगे develop इससे attacking midfield स्थितियाँ and hence are naturally midfielders.
Barcelona FC स्टार लियोनेल मेस्सी is a typical attacking Midfielder देखी as a आगे due to उसके शॉट सटीकता.
A California घरेलू साझेदारी is a legal relationship available to same-sex couples, and to certain opposite-sex युगल in which at तनिक one party is at तनिक 18 years of आयु.
it affords the युगल `` the वही अधिकारों, protections, और लाभ, और... the same जिम्मेदारियों, obligations, और duties अंतर्गत law... '' as शादीशुदा spouses.
Enacted in 1999, the घरेलू partnership रजिस्ट्री थी the first of इसके दयालु in the United राज्य created by a legislature बगैर अदालत हस्तक्षेप.
initially, domestic partnerships enjoyed बहुत few privileges—principally बस hospital-visitation rights and the right to be claimed as a अगला of kin of the estate of a मृतक partner.
The legislature रै चूंकि विस्तारित the पैमाना of कैलिफ़ोर्निया घरेलू partnerships to include सब of the अधिकारों and जिम्मेदारियों आम to विवाह.
As ऐसे, कैलिफ़ोर्निया घरेलू partnerships are functionally equivalent to civil unions offered in several अन्य राज्य.
Although the program enjoys व्यापक support in कैलिफ़ोर्निया, it रै महरूम the सोर्स of कुछ controversy.
समूह opposed to the recognition of same-sex families have challenged the विस्तार of घरेलू partnerships in court.
conversely, advocates of same-sex marriage contend कि anything less than full विवाह अधिकारों विस्तारित to same-sex partners is analogous to the `` पृथक लकिन बराबर '' racial laws of the Jim Crow era.
चिह्नित A. जैक्सन ( born अप्रैल 1, 1965 ) is an American basketball कोच, and former player जो is the वर्तमान सिर कोच of the सुनहरी राज्य Warriors of the एनबीए.
a पाइंट गार्ड इससे st. जॉन 's विश्वविद्यालयों, he निभाई for the New यॉर्क knicks, इंडियाना पेसर्स, लॉस Angeles क्लिपर्स, Denver टेंडर्स, Toronto रैपटर्स, यूटा जैज़ और ह्यूस्टन rockets in the NBA in a career spanning इससे 1987 to 2004.
जैक्सन रै भी worked as a commentator लिये ईएसपीएन and एबीसी alongside his पूर्व कोच Jeff वैन gundy और play-by-play man माइक breen.
He थी previously an NBA विश्लेषक लिये The यस संजाल 's नई Jersey नेट खेल.
दक्षिण Africa रै ग्यारह official languages : अफ्रीकी, अंग्रेज़ी, ndebele, Northern sotho, Sotho, Swazi, Tswana, Tsonga, Venda, ख़ोसा और Zulu.
Fewer than दो percent of दक्षिण africans speak a first भाषा अन्य than an आधिकारिक एक.
Most दक्षिण africans can बोलो अधिक than one भाषा.
Dutch and English यहूद the पहला आधिकारिक भाषाएं of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी इससे 1910 to 1925.
Afrikaans was added as a भाग of डच in 1925.
डच was replaced by अफ्रीकी when South अफ़्रीकी became a republic in 1961, और Dutch was dropped in 1983, so between 1983 and 1994, दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी था दो official languages : English and अफ्रीकी.
the अंग्रेज़ी version of the South अफ़्रीकी संविधान refers to the भाषाएं by the names in those भाषाएं : isiZulu, isixhosa, Afrikaans, Sepedi ( referring to उत्तरी sotho ), setswana, English, sesotho ( referring to दक्षिणी sotho ), xitsonga, Siswati, tshivenda and isindebele ( referring to Southern ndebele ).
In South अफ़्रीकी, दक्षिणी Ndebele is known बस as ndebele, as सबसे अध्यक्षों of उत्तरी ndebele सजीव in ज़िम्बाब्वे.
the 1993 संस्करण of the संविधान referred to उत्तरी sotho as Sesotho sa leboa, लकिन the 1996 संस्करण referred to the भाषा as sepedi.
Different सरकारी departments और आधिकारिक लाशें use अलग terms to denote Northern sotho.
The प्रमुख भाषा of सरकारी is English भी if दक्षिण africans प्रायः take pride in using स्वदेशी भाषाएं for कोई purpose.
अफ्रीकी भी features prominently in commerce साथ with English as the भाषाएं with the उच्चतम number of धाराप्रवाह अध्यक्षों हैं अफ्रीकी और अंग्रेज़ी.
in शर्तें of भाषाई वर्गीकरण, the आधिकारिक भाषाएं include दो West-Germanic भाषाएं ( अंग्रेज़ी और अफ्रीकी ) और nine bantu भाषाएं.
चार of ये हैं nguni languages ( Zulu, Xhosa, स्वाति और ndebele ) और three are sotho–tswana languages ( उत्तरी sotho, दक्षिणी Sotho and tswana ).
Tsonga is a tswa–ronga भाषा.
दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी Sign भाषा is a distinct though incompletely उभरा नेशनल मानक भाषा जिससे also subsumes a cluster of semi-standardised dialects.
Aluminium नाइट्रेट is a salt of एल्युमिनियम और nitric acid, मौजूदा normally as a crystalline hydrate, most commonly as एल्युमिनियम नाइट्रेट nonahydrate, Al ( no3 ) 3·9h2o.
The नई यॉर्क jets are a professional फ़ुटबॉल टोली headquartered in florham Park, नई जर्सी, representing the नई यॉर्क महानगर area.
the टोली is a सदस्य of the पूर्वी प्रभाग of the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc ) in the National फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ).
In a unique arrangement लिये the league, the jets share MetLife स्टेडियम in ईस्ट रदरफोर्ड, New Jersey साथ the नई यॉर्क दिग्गज.
the मताधिकार is legally and corporately पंजीकृत as New यॉर्क jets, LLC.
the टोली was संस्थापित in 1959 as the टाइटन्स of नई York, an असली member of the American फ़ुटबॉल लीग ; बाद, the मताधिकार joined the NFL in the afl–nfl विलय.
the team began to खेल in 1960 at the पोलो Grounds.
Under new ownership, the वर्तमान नाम थी adopted in 1963 और the franchise was relocated to shea Stadium in 1964 और तब to the meadowlands खेल Complex in 1984.
the Jets advanced to the playoffs for the first समय in 1968 and went on to compete in सुपर कटोरी iii जहाँ वे पराजित the बाल्टीमोर कोल्टस, बनने the first AFL टोली to शिकस्त an NFL club in an afl-nfl संसार Championship खेल.
चूंकि 1968, the jets have appeared in the playoffs तेरह टाइम्स, और in the afc चैंपियनशिप खेल चार times, सबसे recently खोने to the Pittsburgh Steelers in 2010.
however, the Jets have never लौटे to the Super कटोरी, बनाना उन्हें one of तीन NFL टीमों to win उनके लोन सुपर Bowl रूप, along साथ the नई ऑरलियन्स संतो और Tampa खाड़ी buccaneers.
the team 's प्रशिक्षण सुविधा, अटलांटिक स्वास्थ्य jets Training Center, जिससे खोली in 2008, is located in florham पार्क.
The team currently holds उनके सालाना training camp sessions on the campus of the राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों of नई यॉर्क at Cortland in Cortland, नई यॉर्क जबकि पकड़कर occasional sessions at the florham पार्क complex.
psilocybe semilanceata
psilocybin मशरूम, भी ज्ञात as साइकेडेलिक मशरूम, हैं fungi that contain psychoactive indole alkaloids.
वहीँ are multiple colloquial शर्तें लिये psilocybin मशरूम, the सबसे common होने shrooms और जादू मशरूम.
biological genera containing psilocybin मशरूम शामिल agrocybe, conocybe, Copelandia, galerina, Gerronema, gymnopilus, hypholoma, inocybe, mycena, Panaeolus, pluteus, और Psilocybe.
वहीँ हैं लगभग 190 प्रजाति of psilocybin mushrooms और सबसे of उन्हें पतन in the genus psilocybe.
Psilocybin मशरूम have likely महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि prehistoric टाइम्स और may have been चित्रित in rock art.
Many संस्कृतियों have प्रयुक्त these मशरूम in religious संस्कार.
in आधुनिक पश्चिमी society they हैं used recreationally लिये उनके साइकेडेलिक effects.
हाल अध्ययन किया at Imperial कॉलेज London और जॉन्स हॉपकिंस स्कूल of आयुर्विज्ञान conclude कि when used properly, psilocybin अधिनियमों as an anti-depressant as सुझाया by fmri दिमाग scans.
Alaska ( ) is a राज्य in the संयुक्त राज्य, situated in the उत्तरपश्चिम extremity of the North अमरीकी महाद्वीप, with the अंतरराष्ट्रीय boundary साथ Canada to the ईस्ट, the आर्कटिक Ocean to the उत्तर, और the प्रशांत समंदर to the वेस्ट and south, साथ Russia further west आरपार the Bering Strait.
अलास्का is the largest state in the संयुक्त States by क्षेत्रफल, the 4th least populous and the तनिक densely populated of the 50 संयुक्त राज्य.
Approximately हाफ of Alaska 's 731,449 residents सजीव भीतर the anchorage महानगर क्षेत्रफल.
Alaska 's अर्थव्यवस्था is dominated by the oil, प्राकृतिक गैस, और फ़िशिंग industries ; it रै these संसाधन in प्रचुरता.
Alaska was खरीदा from रूस on March 30, 1867, लिये $ 7.2 लाख ( $ समायोजित लिये inflation ) at approximately दो cents per एकड़ ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
the जमीन went through several administrative changes before बनने an organized ( or incorporated ) territory on may 11, 1912, and the 49th राज्य of the U.S. on जनवरी 3, 1959.
the नाम `` Alaska '' ( аляска ) was already introduced in the Russian colonial period, when it was प्रयुक्त तभी for the peninsula और is derived from the aleut alaxsxaq, अर्थ `` the mainland '' or, अधिक literally, `` the ऑब्जेक्ट towards which the कार्रवाई of the समुद्र is directed ''.
it is also ज्ञात as Alyeska, the `` great जमीन '', an aleut शब्द derived from the same root.
The 101 फ्रेंच विभाग हैं विभाजित into 342 arrondissements, which may be translated into English as जिले.
The पूंजी of an arrondissement/district is called a subprefecture.
When an arrondissement contains the prefecture ( पूंजी ) of the department, कि प्रीफ़ेक्चर is the पूंजी of the arrondissement, एक्टिंग दोनो as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.
arrondissements हैं further divided into cantons और communes.
the योनि ( इससे लैटिन vāgīna, वस्तुतः `` म्यान '' or `` scabbard `` ) is a tubular tract जिससे is a sex organ और रै दो main कृत्यों ; sexual intercourse and प्रसव.
in इंसानो, this ड्योढ़ी लीड from the opening of the भग to the uterus ( गर्भ ), लकिन the vaginal ट्रैक्ट ends at the ग्रीवा.
Unlike मेन, जो have तभी एक genital orifice, महिलाओं have two, the urethra और the योनि.
The vaginal खोलने is much larger than the urethral opening, और दोनो openings हैं सुरक्षित by the labia.
the inner सांचे of the योनि रै a foldy बनावट which can create घर्षण लिये the penis during intercourse.
During arousal, the vagina gets नम to सुकर the प्रवेश of the penis.
The Latinate बहुवचन `` vaginae '' is rarely used in English.
colloquially, the word vagina is often प्रयुक्त to refer to the भग or to the मादा गुप्तांग in सामान्य.
However, by इसके dictionary and anatomical परिभाषाएं, vagina refers exclusively to the विशिष्ट आतंरिक ढांचा.
The सिनसिनाटी लाल are a प्रमुख League बेसबॉल टोली based in सिनसिनाटी, Ohio.
वे हैं सदस्यों of the नेशनल League सेंट्रल प्रभाग.
स्थापित in 1881 as an independent club, the team became a चार्टर सदस्य of the अमरीकी Association in 1882, and joined the नेशनल लीग in 1890.
the club traditionally traces its origin to बेसबॉल 's first openly पेशेवर टोली in 1869.
The लाल have won पाँच संसार Series शीर्षक, एक American संघ pennant, नौ नेशनल लीग pennants और टेन प्रभाग titles.
the लाल played in the नेशनल League वेस्ट between 1969 और 1993 and have महरूम in the National League सेंट्रल चूंकि 1994.
Since 2003, the लाल have played at Great अमरीकी Ball Park, built अगला to उनके घर इससे 1970 to 2002, riverfront स्टेडियम.
bob castellini रै स्वामित्व the सिनसिनाटी लाल चूंकि 2006.
A prank stink bomb.
a stink bomb is a यंत्र designed to create an अप्रिय smell.
They दायरा in effectiveness इससे सरल pranks to सैन्य ग्रेड malodorants or riot कंट्रोल chemical एजेंटों.
the Guinness Book of Records सूचियाँ दो smelliest substances.
एक is `` US Government Standard बाथरूम Malodor '' ; a mixture of आठ chemicals साथ a stench resembling इंसान मल, only much stronger, designed to test the efficacy of deodorizers and एयर fresheners.
another एक, `` Who me ? ``, is a mixture of पाँच sulfur-containing रसायन और smells like rotting खाना and carcasses.
the adage `` a picture is लायक a हजार शब्द '' refers to the notion कि a complex विचार can be conveyed साथ बस a सिंगल स्टिल चित्र.
It भी aptly characterizes एक of the प्रमुख लक्ष्य of visualization, namely making it possible to absorb विशाल amounts of आंकड़ा quickly.
the expression `` उपयोग a चित्र.
it 's लायक a हजार words. '' appears in a 1911 newspaper आलेख quoting newspaper एडिटर आर्थर ब्रिसबेन discussing journalism and publicity.
1913 newspaper advertisement
A similar phrase, `` एक dekh Is लायक A Thousand Words '', appears in a 1913 newspaper विज्ञापन लिये the Piqua Auto Supply हाउस of piqua, Ohio.
an जल्दी उपयोग of the सटीक phrase appears in an 1918 समाचारपत्र विज्ञापन लिये the San अंतोनियो लाइट which says : एक of the Nation 's महानतम Editors says : एक चित्र is Worth a हजार शब्द the सैन अंतोनियो Light 's Pictorial Magazine of the युद्ध Exemplifies the सच्चाई of the above बयान -- judging इससे the warm reception it रै प्राप्त at the हैंड्स of the Sunday लाइट पाठक.
it is believed by some कि the आधुनिक उपयोग of the phrase तना from an article by फ्रेड R. Barnard in the विज्ञापन व्यापार जर्नल मुद्रक ' Ink, promoting the use of images in विज्ञापन कि appeared on the पहलू of streetcars.
The दिसम्बर 8, 1921 issue carries an ad हकदार, `` एक Look is लायक a Thousand शब्द. ''
another ad by बर्नार्ड appears in the March 10, 1927 issue साथ the phrase `` एक Picture Worth टेन हजार शब्द, '' where it is labeled a चाइनीज कहावत ( 一圖勝萬言 ).
The Home Book of proverbs, maxims, and Familiar Phrases quotes Barnard as saying he called it `` a Chinese कहावत, so कि लोगों होता लो it seriously. ''
जल्द बाद, the proverb होता become popularly attributed to Confucius.
The चर्चा of `` One चित्र लायक हजार शब्द '' बनाम `` एक Picture Worth टेन Thousand शब्द '' wan येन I hua और 10.000 मील worth 10.000 books is cited in सूचना graphics जहाँ the अवधारणा of many in अलग disciplines and संस्कृतियों.
a चित्र is worth a thousand शब्द
despite इस आधुनिक उत्पत्ति of the लोकप्रिय phrase, the भावना रै महरूम expressed by earlier लेखक.
For example the रूसी writer इवान Turgenev लिखा ( in fathers और बेटे in 1862 ), `` A चित्र shows me at a glance कया it takes दर्जनों of pages of a book to expound. ''
कंप्यूटर programmer और लेखक Fred Brooks makes an विपरीत statement regarding programming in the mythical man-month : `` Show me अपना flowcharts और conceal अपना टेबल, और i shall continue to be mystified.
दिखाएँ me अपना टेबल, और i won’t प्रायः need your flowcharts ; they’ll be स्पष्ट. ''
the phrase रै also been spoofed by जॉन McCarthy, the प्रसिद्ध computer वैज्ञानिक, to make the विपरीत पाइंट : `` as the Chinese कह, 1001 शब्द is लायक अधिक than a picture. ''
A ऋतु is a subdivision of the साल, चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in मौसम, ecology, and घंटों of daylight.
Seasons result इससे the वार्षिक revolution of the Earth around the Sun और the tilt of the धरती 's अक्ष सापेक्ष to the प्लेन of क्रान्ति.
in शीतोष्ण और polar regions, the सीज़न हैं चिह्नित by changes in the intensity of sunlight that पहुँच the Earth 's सतह, variations of which may cause पशु to go into शीतनिष्क्रियता or to migrate, and plants to be dormant.
During may, जून और जुलाई, the उत्तरी hemisphere is उजागर to अधिक direct धूप because the गोलार्ध faces the सूर्य.
The वही is true of the southern गोलार्ध in नवम्बर, दिसम्बर और जनवरी.
It is the tilt of the धरती कि causes the Sun to be उच्चतर in the sky during the गर्मियाँ महीने which increases the solar फ्लक्स.
however, due to मौसमी lag, जून, जुलाई और अगस्त are the hottest महीने in the northern गोलार्ध और दिसम्बर, जनवरी और फ़रवरी हैं the hottest महीने in the southern hemisphere.
In शीतोष्ण and subpolar regions, generally four पंचांग -आधारd seasons ( with उनके adjectives ) हैं पहचाना : वसन्त ( vernal ), summer ( estival ), पतझड़ ( autumnal ) and winter ( hibernal ).
however, ecologists ज़्यादातर उपयोग a छह season मॉडल लिये शीतोष्ण climate regions कि शामिल pre-spring ( prevernal ) and late summer ( serotinal ) as distinct सीज़न साथ with the traditional चार.
hot regions have two or तीन सीज़न ; the rainy ( or wet, or मानसून ) season और the शुष्क ऋतु, and in some तीव्र areas, a कूल or mild ऋतु.
in some भाग of the संसार, special `` seasons '' are loosely पारिभाषित आधारित on महत्वपूर्ण कार्यक्रम such as a hurricane season, बवंडर season or a wildfire season.
the six ecological सीज़न
the four पंचांग सीज़न, depicted in an ancient रोमन mosaic इससे ट्यूनीशिया
डच निर्यात in 2006
At the time of writing the Netherlands is the 17th largest economy of the संसार.
( see : सूची of देशों by GDP ( nominal ) )
GDP प्रति capita is roughly $ 42,000 which puts it in the शीर्ष 10 of richest राष्ट्र in the world ( देखिए : सूची of देशों by जीडीपी ( PPP ) प्रति capita ).
Between 1996 and 2000 सालाना economic विकास ( जीडीपी ) averaged over 4 %, खूब above the European average.
विकास slowed considerably in 2001-05 as part of the वैश्विक आर्थिक slowdown.
2006 और 2007 however दिखाया economic growth of 3.4 % और 3.9 %.
the डच अर्थव्यवस्था थी hit considerably by the जारी वैश्विक वित्तीय crisis और the ensuing European कर्ज़ संकट.
अनेक बैंको गई bankrupt, और a क्रमांक of others था to प्राप्त सरकारी सहायता.
in 2009 the economy declined साथ 3.5 %, followed by दो years of mild विकास.
the डच economy is फिलहाल in a recession again, साथ an आर्थिक मनाही of 0.5 % in 2012.
महंगाई is at 3.2 % in फ़रवरी 2013.
Unemployment रै महरूम अपेक्षाकृत कम compared to other eu राष्ट्र for decades but after mid-2012 it रै देखी a तेज़ बढ़ाएँ और in February 2013 it has hit 7.7 %.
the Netherlands managed to maintain its aaa दरजा at तनिक जबतक कूच 2013 according to the three major credit rating एजेंसियों.
Historically, the डच introduced and invented the भण्डार market by the merchandise trading through Dutch West इण्डिया कम्पनी.
The नीदरलैंड्स is a founding member of the European Union, the oecd और the World व्यापार संगठन.
वफ़ादार to the Game is the tenth स्टुडियो एल्बम और छठे studio एल्बम by Tupac shakur.
it contains remixes of previously unreleased music recorded by Shakur पहले his मौत in 1996.
Released in the United राज्य on December 14, 2004 ( दिसम्बर 12 in the United किंगडम ), Loyal to the खेल was उत्पादित by Eminem.
The असली फलक of The View ; Meredith vieira, Star जोन्स, Debbie matenopoulos और बारबरा walters in 1997.
the View is an अमरीकी talk दिखाएँ broadcast on एबीसी कि debuted in 1997 as part of the network 's daytime प्रोग्रामिंग ब्लाक.
निर्मित by Barbara walters and विधेयक geddie, जो दोनो also serve as the दिखाएँ 's executive producers, the कार्यक्रम सुविधाएँ a panel of women as co-hosts.
Along साथ walters, the वर्तमान फलक includes whoopi गोल्डबर्ग, who serves as the मॉडरेटर, आनन्द Behar, एलिज़ाबेथ hasselbeck, और sherri Shepherd.
अंतरराष्ट्रीय versions of the program हैं aired in अनेक countries.
As of the 2012–13 season, its 16th, the दृश्य is the fourth-longest कार्यशील नेशनल daytime talk दिखाएँ in इतिहास, पीछे the Phil Donahue दिखाएँ ( 29 ), the variously-named सजीव !
कार्यक्रम ( 25 ), और the Oprah विनफ्रे दिखाएँ ( 25 ).
prunus virginiana, commonly पुकारा bitter-berry, chokecherry, वर्जिनिया bird चेरी and पश्चिमी chokecherry ( भी black chokecherry लिये P. virginiana var. demissa ), is a species of बर्ड चेरी ( prunus subgenus padus ) native to उत्तर अमेरिका ; the natural ऐतिहासिक दायरा of P. virginiana शामिल most of the continent, except for the दूर उत्तर and दूर दक्षिण.
लॉस एंजिल्स International Airport is the प्राथमिक विमानक्षेत्र सेवारत the वृहद Los Angeles क्षेत्रफल, the second-most आबादी metropolitan क्षेत्रफल in the संयुक्त राज्य.
it is most often referred to by इसके IATA विमानक्षेत्र code lax, साथ the letters pronounced individually.
LAX is located in southwestern Los एंजिल्स साथ the प्रशांत coast in the पड़ोस of Westchester, from the downtown कोर and is the प्राथमिक विमानक्षेत्र of लॉस Angeles World एयरपोर्ट ( lawa ), an एजेंसी of the लॉस एंजिल्स नगर सरकारी formerly ज्ञात as the Department of Airports.
In 2011, LAX was the sixth व्यस्ततम airport in the संसार after hartsfield-jackson अटलांटा International विमानक्षेत्र, बीजिंग पूंजी International विमानक्षेत्र, लंदन हीथ्रो विमानक्षेत्र, Chicago o'hare International Airport, और टोकियो haneda International विमानक्षेत्र साथ 61,862,052 passengers.
The airport holds the अर्जी लिये `` the world 's व्यस्ततम origin and गंतव्य ( o & D ) airport '' in 2011 कि involves non-connecting passenger ट्रैफ़िक.
it is also the only विमानक्षेत्र to रैंक among the शीर्ष पाँच u.S. airports लिये both passenger और cargo ट्रैफ़िक.
LAX is the busiest airport in the Greater लॉस एंजिल्स Area, लकिन अन्य airports including bob आशा विमानक्षेत्र, John Wayne विमानक्षेत्र, long बीच विमानक्षेत्र, la/ontario International विमानक्षेत्र, and ताड़ स्रोतों International Airport also serve the प्रदेश.
lax is also the busiest विमानक्षेत्र in कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the वेस्ट Coast of the United States in शर्तें of उड़ान परिचालन, यात्री ट्रैफ़िक और air कार्गो activity, अग्रणी it to be referred to as the `` गेटवे to the Pacific रिम ``.
peyton Williams Manning ( born कूच 24, 1976 ) is an अमरीकी football quarterback लिये the Denver broncos of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ).
He निभाई लिये the Indianapolis कोल्टस लिये 14 seasons from 1998 to 2011.
he is the बेटे of former एनएफएल quarterback आर्ची मैनिंग और an elder bhai of New यॉर्क दिग्गज क्वार्टरबैक Eli मैनिंग.
मैनिंग निभाई कॉलेज football for the विश्वविद्यालयों of टेनेसी, leading the स्वयंसेवक to the 1997 SEC Championship in his senior season.
However, no. 3 Tennessee खोया to the No. 2 Nebraska cornhuskers 42-17 in the नारंगी कटोरी giving नेब्रास्का और Tom ओसबोर्न उनके 3rd नेशनल चैंपियनशिप in 4 सालो.
He was चुनी by the इंडियानापोलिस Colts साथ the first overall चुनें in the 1998 एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट.
इससे 1998 to 2010, he led the Colts to eight ( seven AFC दक्षिण and one AFC ईस्ट ) division championships, दो AFC championships, और to a सुपर Bowl चैंपियनशिप ( Super Bowl xli ).
he रै won a रिकार्ड चार league सबसे valuable खिलाड़ी पुरस्कार, was the सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी of सुपर कटोरी XLI, has महरूम नामित to बारह प्रो प्याले, has बारह 4,000-yard passing seasons, और is the इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस ' all-time leader in गुजर गज ( 54,828 ) और touchdown गुजरता ( 399 ).
In 2009, he was named the best खिलाड़ी in the एनएफएल and Fox Sports साथ साथ खेल illustrated नामित him the एनएफएल खिलाड़ी of the दशक of the 2000s.
in may 2011, he underwent गर्दन surgery to alleviate गर्दन पीड़ा और भुजा कमज़ोरी he dealt with दौरान the पिछला few सीज़न पहले signing a five-year, $ 90 लाख contract extension with the कोल्टस in जुलाई 2011.
Manning था hoped to खेल in the 2011 ऋतु, लकिन in सितंबर 2011, he underwent a much अधिक serious दूसरी surgery : a स्तर एक सर्वाइकल fusion procedure.
मैनिंग था never छूटी an एनएफएल game in उसके career, but थी मजबूर to मिस the entire 2011 season.
He थी released by the Colts on कूच 7, 2012, और बाद an almost two-week period where he visited साथ और worked आउट लिये several एनएफएल teams, he signed साथ the डेनवर Broncos on कूच 20, 2012.
मैनिंग 's pre-snap दिनचर्या रै अर्जित him the nickname, `` The Sheriff '' and is one of the सबसे recognizable और parodied in the NFL.
The इंडियानापोलिस Colts ' almost exclusive use of the hurry-up ठोकर led to Manning using an सरणी of इशारों and मौखिक कमांड to कॉल the खेल at the line of scrimmage rather than in the huddle.
the America मीनार of the American General Center, the headquarters of बेकर ह्यूजेस
बेकर ह्यूजेस is one of the world 's largest oilfield सेवाएं companies.
it operates in over 90 countries, providing the oil and गैस उद्योग साथ उत्पाद and services लिये खुदाई, गठन मूल्यांकन, पूर्णता, production और टंकी परामर्श.
बेकर ह्यूजेस रै इसके मुख्यालय in the अमेरिका मीनार in the अमरीकी General बीच in neartown, ह्यूस्टन.
बेकर ह्यूजेस incorporated थी formed जब Baker International और ह्यूजेस Tool कम्पनी merged in 1987.
Baker ह्यूजेस operates विश्वव्यापी with प्रमुख कार्यालयों in लिवरपूल, संयुक्त किंगडम ; सिंगापुर ; दुबई ; a शोध और मेंटेनेंस सुविधा in celle, जर्मनी ; Lafayette, Louisiana ; Houston, टेक्सास ; Pescara, इटली ; and kuala lumpur, मलेशिया.
the कम्पनी is administered broadly in दो बांटती : the पूर्वी hemisphere with पाँच regions ( यूरोपीय, Africa, the मध्य ईस्ट, एशिया Pacific और russia/caspian ) and the western गोलार्ध with चार regions ( कनाडा, us जमीन, us गल्फ, and लैटिन America ).
प्रत्येक of these regions is subdivided into markets.
The संयुक्त राज्य one- cent सिक्का, commonly ज्ञात as a पैनी, is a ईकाई of करेंसी equaling one one-hundredth of a संयुक्त राज्य डालर.
The cent 's प्रतीक is ¢.
Its obverse has featured the प्रोफ़ाइल of अध्यक्ष अब्राहम lincoln चूंकि 1909, the centennial of उसके जनम.
From 1959 ( the sesquicentennial of Lincoln 's जनम ) to 2008, the रिवर्स featured the lincoln Memorial.
चार अलग reverse डिजाइन in 2009 सम्मानित Lincoln 's 200th birthday और a नई, स्थाई reverse – the संघ Shield – was introduced in 2010.
The coin is 0.75 इंच ( 19.05 mm ) in व्यास और 0.061 inches ( 1.55 mm ) in thickness.
The u.S. मिंट 's official नाम लिये a penny is `` '' and the U.S. Treasury 's आधिकारिक नाम is `` one cent टुकड़ा ''.
the colloquial पद पैनी derives इससे the British सिक्का of the वही name, the pre-decimal संस्करण of जिससे had a समान value.
in American English, कौड़ी is the plural form, other plural फ़ॉर्म पेंस और pee ( मानक उपयोग in अंग्रेजों English ) हैं नहीं used.
As of 2012, it costs the u.S. Mint 2.00 सेंट to make a cent because of the लागत of सामग्री and production.
This फिगर includes the mint’s fixed components for वितरण and fabrication, अनुमानित at $ 13 लाख in fy 2011.
It also शामिल मिंट overhead आबंटित to the penny, जिससे थी $ 17.7 लाख लिये 2011.
फिक्स्ड costs और ओवरहेड होता have to be अवशोषित by अन्य circulating coins बगैर the पैनी.
the घाटा in profitability due to producing the one cent सिक्का in the United States for the year of 2012 was $ 58,000,000.
इस थी a पतला decrease इससे 2011, the साल before, which था a उत्पादन घाटा of $ 60,200,000.
or अधिक specifically, हैं शोभायमान किस्में of domesticated आम carp ( Cyprinus carpio ) कि are kept लिये सजावटी उद्देश्य in बाहरी कोई ponds or जल gardens.
कोई varieties are distinguished by coloration, patterning, और scalation.
कुछ of the major रंगों हैं श्वेत, black, रेड, पीला, ब्लू, and मलाई.
The most लोकप्रिय category of koi is the gosanke, which is made up of the kohaku, Taisho Sanshoku, और Showa sanshoku varieties.
The American संघ of सरकारी कर्मचारी ( AFGE ) is an American मजदूर union representing over 650,000 कर्मचारी of the संघीय government, परिचय 5,000 कर्मचारी of the ज़िला of Columbia, और a few hundred private सेक्टर employees, ज़्यादातर in and around federal facilities.
AFGE is the largest union लिये civilian, non- डाक संघीय कर्मचारी and the largest संघ लिये District of कोलंबिया employees जो report सीधे to the महापौर ( i.e., बाहर of d.C. public schools ).
it is संबद्ध साथ the afl-cio.
A लेट सिल्यूरियन sporangium.
Green : a spore tetrad.
Blue : a spore bearing a trilete चिह्नित – the -आकारd scar.
The बीजाणुओं are about 30-35 μm आरपार
the एवोल्यूशन of पौधे रै resulted in increasing स्तर of जटिलता, इससे the earliest algal mats, through bryophytes, lycopods, ferns to the complex gymnosperms and angiosperms of आज.
जबकि many of the समूह जिससे appeared पहले continue to thrive, विशेषकर in the environments in which they विकसित, लिये a time प्रत्येक new ग्रेड of organisation became more `` successful '' than इसके predecessors.
in the ordovician period, around, the पहला जमीन पौधे appeared.
These began to diversify in the लेट सिल्यूरियन काल, around, और the परिणाम of उनके diversification are displayed in उल्लेखनीय विवरण in an जल्दी devonian चट्टान assemblage from the rhynie chert.
This chert preserved जल्दी plants in सेल्यूलर विवरण, petrified in volcanic स्रोतों.
by the middle of the Devonian काल, सबसे of the सुविधाएँ recognised in plants आज are present, including roots, leaves and द्वितीयक लकडी ; और, by लेट devonian टाइम्स, बीज had evolved.
लेट Devonian plants था thereby पहुँचे a degree of परिष्कार कि अनुमत उन्हें to रूप वनों of लम्बा trees.
Evolutionary नवीनता continued into the carboniferous काल and is स्टिल जारी today.
सबसे संयंत्र समूह were अपेक्षाकृत unscathed by the permo-triassic extinction इवेंट, हालांकि the structures of समुदायों changed.
इस may have नियत the scene लिये the रूप of the flowering पौधे in the Triassic ( ~ ), और their बाद diversification in the Cretaceous और Paleogene.
the नवीनतम प्रमुख group of plants to evolve यहूद the grasses, जिससे became महत्वपूर्ण in the mid-paleogene, इससे around.
the grasses, as well as अनेक अन्य groups, विकसित नई mechanisms of metabolism to जीवित the low और warm, dry शर्तें of the ऊष्णकटिबन्ध over the last.
The जीतना Super कटोरी team receives the Vince लोम्बार्डी ट्रॉफी.
the सुपर Bowl is an annual अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल खेल कि determines the चैंपियन of the National Football League ( एनएफएल ).
the प्रतियोगिता is आयोजित in an अमरीकी city कि is चुनी three to four years beforehand, usually in warm-weather or domed साइट.
Since 1971, the winner of the American Football सम्मेलन ( AFC ) चैंपियनशिप खेल रै faced the winner of the National फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( NFC ) Championship खेल in the culmination of the NFL playoffs.
Before the 1970 विलय between the American फ़ुटबॉल League ( afl ) and the National फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ), the two leagues मिले in चार ऐसे प्रतियोगिताओं.
The पहला दो यहूद ज्ञात as the `` afl-nfl World चैंपियनशिप खेल. ''
सुपर Bowl iii in 1969 was the पहला ऐसे खेल कि carried the `` Super Bowl '' moniker, the names `` Super Bowl i `` और `` सुपर कटोरी ii `` were retroactively लागू to the पहला दो खेल.
the NFC /nfL leads in सुपर कटोरी wins साथ 25, while the afc /afL has जीती 22.
अठारह different franchises, including teams that relocated to another city, have won the सुपर कटोरी.
The पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स have जीती the सबसे सुपर Bowls साथ छह championships ( रिकार्ड 6–2 ), while both the Dallas cowboys और सैन फ्रांसिस्को 49ers have five विन्स प्रत्येक ( cowboys 5–3 ; 49ers 5–1 ).
Dallas और Pittsburgh have the most Super कटोरी दिखावे with eight, जबकि the Buffalo Bills have the most लगातार appearances साथ four नुकसान in a पंक्ति from 1990 to 1993.
The नई England Patriots, डेनवर broncos और मिनेसोटा Vikings have भी खोया a रिकार्ड चार Super Bowls.
भैंस और Minnesota are दोनो 0–4, Denver is 2–4 और New इंग्लैण्ड is 3–4.
the record लिये consecutive विन्स is दो और is साझा by सात franchises : the 1966-67 ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स, the 1972-73 Miami डॉल्फिन, the 1974-75 और 1978-79 पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स ( the only team to accomplish this feat twice ), the 1988-89 सैन फ्रांसिस्को 49ers, the 1992-93 Dallas Cowboys, the 1997-98 डेनवर broncos, and the 2003-04 New इंग्लैण्ड देशप्रेमी.
The तभी team साथ multiple Super कटोरी appearances और no नुकसान is the Baltimore ravens, who in winning सुपर कटोरी xlvii unseated और replaced the 49ers in कि स्थिति.
Four वर्तमान एनएफएल teams have never appeared in a सुपर Bowl, सहित मताधिकार relocations and renaming : the Cleveland भूरा, डेट्रॉयट Lions, jacksonville jaguars, and ह्यूस्टन texans, हालांकि both the भूरा और शेर था जीती NFL चैंपियनशिप खेल prior to the creation of the सुपर Bowl.
Martin County is a काउंटी located in the U.S. राज्य of टेक्सास.
as of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, its जनसांख्यिकी थी 4,799.
इसके सीट is stanton.
the county is नामित लिये wylie मार्टिन, an early settler.
मार्टिन काउंटी is एक of 30 निषेध, or entirely शुष्क, काउंटी in the राज्य of टेक्सास.
Alkaline phosphatase ( ALP, alkp ) ( ) is a hydrolase एंजाइम जिम्मेदार लिये निकालना phosphate समूह इससे अनेक types of अणुओं, including nucleotides, proteins, and alkaloids.
The प्रक्रम of निकालना the phosphate समूह is पुकारा dephosphorylation.
as the नाम suggests, क्षारीय phosphatases are सबसे प्रभावी in an क्षारीय environment.
it is sometimes used synonymously as मौलिक phosphatase.
triticale ( × triticosecale ), ( ) is a hybrid of गेहूं ( Triticum ) and rye ( Secale ) first करवाया in laboratories दौरान the लेट 19th century.
the अनाज थी originally करवाया in Scotland और Sweden.
commercially available triticale is लगभग सदा a दूसरी generation संकर, i.e., a क्रॉस between दो kinds of primary ( first cross ) triticales.
as a नियम, triticale combines the उपज संभावित और अनाज विशेषता of गेहूं साथ the disease और environmental सहिष्णुता ( including soil conditions ) of rye.
तभी recently रै it महरूम विकसित into a commercially viable crop.
depending on the cultivar, triticale can more or कम resemble either of इसके अभिभावक.
It is grown mostly for forage or चारा, although some triticale-based भोजन can be purchased at स्वास्थ्य food स्टोर्स or हैं to be found in some नाश्ता cereals.
जब क्रासिंग गेहूं and rye, गेहूं is used as the मादा जनक और rye as the पुरूष parent ( पराग दाता ).
the resulting संकर is sterile, and जरूर be treated साथ colchicine to induce polyploidy और thus the ability to reproduce itself.
The प्राथमिक producers of triticale are कैंडल, Germany, फ़्रांस, बेलारूस और ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
in 2009, according to the खाना और Agriculture संगठन ( fao ), 15.0 million टन were harvested in 29 countries आरपार the संसार.
the triticale hybrids हैं सब amphidiploid, जिससे अर्थात् the संयंत्र is द्विगुणित for दो genomes derived from different species.
in other शब्द, triticale is an allotetraploid.
in earlier सालो, सबसे कार्य was किया on octoploid triticale.
अलग ploidy levels have been निर्मित and evaluated over समय.
the tetraploids showed छोटी वादा, लकिन hexaploid triticale थी कामयाब पर्याप्त to ढूँढें commercial अनुप्रयोग.
The CIMMYT triticale सुधार कार्यक्रम चाही to improve खाना उत्पादन और पोषण in विकासशील देशों.
triticale has potential in the production of ब्रैड और अन्य food products, ऐसे as कुकीज़, पास्ता, pizza आटा and नाश्ता cereals.
the protein सामग्री is उच्चतर than that of गेहूं, हालांकि the glutenin भिन्न is कम.
the grain has भी महरूम stated to have उच्चतर levels of lysine than गेहूं.
assuming increased स्वीकृति, the मिलिंग industry होगा have to adapt to triticale, as the milling तकनीकों employed for wheat हैं unsuited to triticale.
Sell et al. मिला triticale could be used as a feed अनाज, and later research मिला its मंड was विशेषकर readily digested.
As a फीड अनाज, triticale is already खूब established और of high economic महत्व.
it रै प्राप्त ध्यान as a potential energy क्रॉप, and शोध is currently being conducted on the use of the crop 's बायोमास in bioethanol उत्पादन.
`` कश, the Magic ड्रैगन '' is a song written by Leonard Lipton and Peter yarrow, and made लोकप्रिय by yarrow 's group Peter, पॉल and मरियम in a 1963 recording.
the सोंग हासिल great popularity.
a कॉलेज football नेशनल चैंपियनशिप in the उच्चतम स्तर of कॉलेजिएट play in the संयुक्त States, फिलहाल the National Collegiate Athletic संघ ( ncaa ) Division I फ़ुटबॉल Bowl subdivision ( FBS ), is a नामांकन awarded annually by various third-party organizations to उनके selection ( s ) of the best college फ़ुटबॉल टोली ( s ).
प्रभाग I FBS ( formerly प्रभाग i-a ) फ़ुटबॉल is the तभी ncaa खेल in जिससे a yearly champion is नहीं संकल्पित by an NCAA मंजूर चैंपियनशिप इवेंट.
क्युकी the चैंपियनशिप टोली is नहीं संकल्पित by a NCAA चैंपियनशिप or tournament इवेंट, it is sometimes unofficially referred to as a `` mythical नेशनल चैंपियनशिप ``.
Since the NCAA, the खेल 's governing body, does नहीं determine or घोषित a नेशनल चैंपियन in इस field, determination of ऐसे has प्रायः engendered विवाद.
A चैंपियनशिप team is independently declared by विभिन्न individuals and संगठन, often referred to as `` चयनकर्ताओं ''.
ये चुनाव are sometimes at हालात with प्रत्येक other.
जबकि the NCAA has never officially endorsed an annual चैंपियनशिप team, it रै प्रलेखित the चुनाव of अनेक selectors in the आधिकारिक ncaa फ़ुटबॉल Bowl subdivision रिकॉर्ड.
In addition, विभिन्न तीसरा party विश्लेषकों have independently प्रकाशित their अपना सूचियाँ of कया वे have संकल्पित to be the most legitimate selections लिये each ऋतु.
These are also often at हालात साथ each अन्य as खूब as व्यक्तिगत स्कूल 's claims on national championships, which, लिये any particular ऋतु, may or may नहीं correlate to the selections प्रकाशित elsewhere.
फिलहाल, दो widely पहचाना national champions चयनकर्ताओं are the संबद्ध दबायें, which conducts a poll of फ़ुटबॉल sportswriters, and the यूएसए आज कोच ' पोल, a poll of American फ़ुटबॉल कोच संघ क्रियाशील कोच that is contractually obligated to नाम the विजेता of the कटोरी Championship श्रेणी चैंपियनशिप खेल as its नेशनल चैंपियन.
The Milwaukee ब्रेवर्स हैं a professional बेसबॉल टोली आधारित in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
the टोली is a member of the Central Division of प्रमुख League बेसबॉल 's National लीग और plays इसके home खेल at मिलर पार्क.
the टोली is so named क्युकी of the city 's संघ with the brewing उद्योग.
the Washington नागरिकों हैं a पेशेवर बेसबॉल team आधारित in Washington, d.c.
the नागरिकों are a सदस्य of the ईस्ट प्रभाग of the National लीग of प्रमुख League Baseball ( एमएलबी ).
The टोली 's घर ballpark is नागरिकों पार्क, स्तिथ on South Capitol गली in Southeast d.C., निकट the anacostia River.
the park opened in 2008, replacing RFK स्टेडियम, the टोली 's home इससे 2005 to 2007.
the Nationals ' नाम derives इससे the पूर्व वॉशिंगटन बेसबॉल टोली कि था the वही नाम ( प्रयुक्त interchangeably साथ Senators ).
उनके nickname is `` the nats '' —a shortened version कि was also प्रयुक्त by the बूढ़ा d.C. टीमों.
an विस्तार franchise, the क्लबों was founded in as the मॉन्ट्रियल Expos, the पहला major league टोली in कनाडा.
They यहूद आधारित in Montreal, Quebec, और निभाई उनके home खेल at Jarry Park स्टेडियम and later in ओलम्पिक Stadium.
In, the expos won a प्रभाग चैंपियनशिप, won उनके first-ever playoff श्रेणी by defeating the फिलाडेल्फिया Phillies, 3–2, और advanced to the नेशनल लीग चैंपियनशिप Series, where वे होता go on to lose to the लॉस Angeles Dodgers, 3–2, in उनके only postseason रूप during the strike-shortened season.
The expos था उनके उच्चतम जीतना प्रतिशत in the strike-shortened ऋतु of, जब the team था the best record in बेसबॉल.
the टोली 's subsequent shedding of खिलाड़ी caused प्रशंसक ब्याज to बूँद बंद.
बाद the 2001 ऋतु, एमएलबी माना revoking the टोली 's मताधिकार, साथ साथ either the मिनेसोटा जुड़वा or the tampa खाड़ी Devil Rays.
बाद being purchased by एमएलबी in 2002, the टोली was moved before the ऋतु to Washington और renamed the Nationals, the पहला relocation चूंकि the second वॉशिंगटन सीनेटरों स्थानांतरित to आर्लिंगटन, टेक्सास, और became the Texas Rangers in.
The नागरिकों हैं एक of two एमएलबी franchises, और the तभी एक in the नेशनल लीग, कि has never played in a संसार श्रेणी ( the सिएटल मैरीनेर्स हैं the अन्य ).
a contingent fee ( in the United States ) or सशर्त शुल्क ( in इंग्लैण्ड and Wales ) is any शुल्क for सेवाएं provided where the fee is देय only if there is a favourable result.
in the law, it is defined as a `` fee charged for a lawyer 's सेवाएं only if the मुकदमा is successful or is favorably settled आउट of court....
Contingent fees हैं प्रायः गणना as a प्रतिशत of the क्लाएंट 's net रिकवरी. ''
In the अंग्रेज़ी legal system, it is generally referred to as no जीत no शुल्क.
A conditional शुल्क अनुबंध between a विधि firm और a client.
the usual रूप of इस अनुबंध is कि the solicitor होगा लो a विधि मामला on the समझना कि if lost, no payment is बना.
However, if the case is जीती, the वकील will be हकदार to the सामान्य शुल्क आधारित on hourly बिलिंग, plus a कामयाबी शुल्क.
the success fee in इंग्लैण्ड जरूर be as a percentage no greater than 100 % of the सामान्य fee.
इस contrasts with the आकस्मिकता शुल्क in the US, which देता the successful attorney a प्रतिशत of the damages awarded in एहसान of his क्लाएंट.
This makes it easier लिये the ग़रीब to pursue उनके civil rights since वरना, to sue किसी लिये a अपकृत्य, एक जरूर पहला be धनवान enough to pursue ऐसे litigation in the first place.
however, क्युकी of the ऊँची रिस्क, few attorneys will take मामले on a आकस्मिकता basis जबतक they महसूस the मामला रै good merit.
according to a 2004 किताब by विधि professor हर्बर्ट kritzer, contingent शुल्क were अनुमत as of कि साल in the following देशों : ऑस्ट्रेलिया, ब्राज़ील, कनाडा, the डोमिनिकन Republic, फ़्रांस, Greece, आयरलैंड, जापानी, नई Zealand, the United किंगडम और the संयुक्त राज्य.
They are भी allowed in personal चोट actions in Lithuania.
recently, वे have been allowed in Belgium as well.
a convocation ( लैटिन 'calling together ', translating the यूनानी ecclesia ) is a समूह of लोगों formally assembled लिये a खास purpose.
बेटे of अराजकता is a टेलीविज़न नाटक series निर्मित by कर्ट sutter about the जीवनदान of a close-knit outlaw मोटरसाइकिल club operating in Charming, a fictional कस्बा in California 's Central Valley.
the दिखाएँ centers on protagonist Jackson `` जैक्स '' teller ( चार्ली hunnam ), the then-vice president of the क्लबों, जो begins questioning the club और खुद.
Sons of Anarchy premiered on सितंबर 3, 2008, on केबल network FX.
the तीसरा ऋतु of the series आकर्षित an औसत of 4.9 million viewers प्रति सप्ताह, making it FX 's highest rated series कभी, surpassing fx 's other हिट्स the शील्ड, Nip/Tuck, और Rescue me.
On फ़रवरी 3, 2012, बेटे of अराजकता was नवीनीकृत लिये two अतिरिक्त सीज़न, a fifth और a sixth.
those शामिल in the उत्पादन of the श्रेणी imply that a सातवाँ and final season is creator कर्ट sutter 's योजना.
The Grímsvötn sub-glacial झीलों ( ; vötn = `` waters '', singular : ) और the ज्वालामुखी of the वही नाम हैं in South-East आइसलैंड.
वे हैं in the हाइलैंड्स of आइसलैंड at the northwestern पक्ष of the vatnajökull ice-cap.
The झीलों हैं at, at an उन्नयन of.
beneath the lakes is the magma chamber of the grímsvötn ज्वालामुखी.
grímsvötn is a basaltic ज्वालामुखी जिससे रै the उच्चतम फटना आवृत्ति of सब the volcanoes in Iceland और रै a southwest-northeast-trending फिशर system.
the विशाल climate-impacting laki फिशर फटना of 1783–1784 थी a भाग of the वही फिशर system.
Grímsvötn was erupting at the वही समय as laki दौरान 1783, लकिन जारी to erupt जबतक 1785.
Because सबसे of the ज्वालामुखी lies underneath vatnajökull, most of इसके eruptions have महरूम subglacial और the interaction of मैग्मा and meltwater from the ice causes phreatomagmatic explosive activity.
On 21 may 2011 at 19:25 utc, an फटना began, साथ high plumes accompanied by multiple भूकंप, resulting in cancellation of 900 फ़्लाइट in Iceland, and in the संयुक्त Kingdom, ग्रीनलैंड, जर्मनी, Ireland और नार्वे on 22–25 may.
Until 25 may the eruption scale था महरूम larger than कि of the 2010 फटना of eyjafjallajökull.
the eruption रोका at 02:40 utc on 25 May 2011, हालांकि there was कुछ विस्फोटक कार्यकलाप इससे the tephra vents affecting only the क्षेत्रफल around the crater.
Vetting is the प्रक्रम of performing a background check on किसी before offering उन्हें employment, conferring an पुरस्कार, etc.
A prospective person or project may be vetted before बनाना a भर्ती निर्णय.
in addition, in intelligence gathering, एसेट are vetted to determine उनके usefulness.
पूर्व मुख्यालय और वर्तमान corporate offices
caesars Entertainment Corporation ( formerly harrah 's entertainment from 1995 to 2010 ) is an American पब्लिक gaming निगम that owns और operates over 50 कसीनो, hotels, and सात गोल्फ़ पाठ्यक्रम अंतर्गत अनेक brands.
The company, based in स्वर्ग, Nevada, is the largest गेमिंग company in the संसार, with annual revenues of $ 8.9 billion ( 2010 ).
caesars is a पब्लिक company, साथ a संयुक्त venture of अपोलो वैश्विक Management and Texas प्रशांत Group ownig a विशाल portion of the stack and blackstone Group also पकड़कर a significant stake.
the नाम बदलें इससे `` harrah 's Entertainment Inc. '' to `` caesars Entertainment निगम '' was बना official on November 23, 2010.
Harrah 's remains a key ब्रांड in the कम्पनी.
On November 5, 2010, Harrah 's घोषित an आरंभिक पब्लिक offering of 31,250,000 shares लकिन retracted this offering on November 19.
A Permanent निवासी in कनाडा is a व्यक्ति जो is not a कनाडाई नागरिक but who रै महरूम granted permission to सजीव और कार्य in Canada बगैर any समय limit on his or उसके stay.
A permanent निवासी must सजीव in Canada लिये दो सालो out of प्रत्येक पाँच or रिस्क losing कि status.
A स्थाई Resident holds अनेक of the वही अधिकारों and responsibilities as a कनाडाई citizen, among others the सही to work for any एंटरप्राइज़ as well as लिये the federal or provincial सरकारी ( under प्रतिबंध of अभिगम अधिकारों to निश्चित regulated professions ).
the प्रमुख differences are कि निवासियों can नहीं :
vote in चुनावों in कनाडा ;
run लिये निर्वाचित दफ्तर ;
थाम कनाडाई passports ;
In addition, वे may be allowed to join कनाडा 's armed forces if the नेशनल interest होता नहीं be prejudiced.
Permanent residents also रिस्क प्रत्यर्पण लिये गंभीर crimes वचनबद्ध जबकि निवासी in कनाडा.
स्थाई निवासियों may लागू for कनाडाई citizenship बाद three सालो in कनाडा ; however इस is नहीं अनिवार्य.
Erica Kane is a fictional अक्षर from the American एबीसी Daytime soap ओपेरा सब My Children.
The अक्षर was portrayed by actress सुसान lucci इससे उसके debut on जनवरी 16, 1970 जबतक the पिछला ब्रॉडकास्ट टेलीविज़न एपीसोड aired on सितंबर 23, 2011.
on February 11, 2013, it थी घोषित that lucci will guest-star on the Prospect Park 's continuation of All My Children.
in the u.S., एरिका is considered to be the सबसे popular अक्षर in साबुन ओपेरा history.
Regarding the north-american मार्केट, tv Guide calls उसके `` unequivocally the most प्रसिद्ध soap opera character in the history of दिन tv '', और included her in their 2013 सूची of the 60 Nastiest Villains of सब समय.
A graph of the US cpi from 1913 to 2006 ( in blue ), and its प्रतिशत annual change ( in रेड )
A उपभोक्ता दाम index ( cpi ) उपायों परिवर्तन in the दाम स्तर of a मार्केट basket of consumer goods और सेवाएं खरीदा by households.
The cpi in the संयुक्त States is defined by the Bureau of मजदूर आंकडे as `` a माप of the औसत बदलें over समय in the prices सशुल्क by शहरी consumers लिये a market बास्केट of consumer goods और सेवाएं. ''
the CPI is a सांख्यिकीय अनुमान constructed using the कीमतें of a नमूना of प्रतिनिधि items whose कीमतें हैं एकत्रित periodically.
Sub-indexes और sub-sub-indexes हैं computed लिये अलग categories और sub-categories of goods और सेवाएं, being संयुक्त to उपज the overall index with weights reflecting उनके shares in the कुल of the उपभोक्ता expenditures covered by the अनुक्रमणिका.
It is एक of अनेक दाम indices गणना by most नेशनल statistical एजेंसियों.
The annual प्रतिशत बदलें in a CPI is used as a माप of महंगाई.
a cpi can be used to अनुक्रमणिका ( i.e., समायोजन लिये the effect of inflation ) the real मान of मजदूरी, salaries, pensions, for regulating prices और लिये deflating monetary magnitudes to दिखाएँ परिवर्तन in रियल मान.
In most countries, the CPI is, along साथ the population जनसांख्यिकी and the USA National आय and उत्पाद खाते, one of the सबसे closely watched national economic statistics.
knocking on wood, or to टच लकडी, refers to the apotropaic tradition in पश्चिमी folklore of वस्तुतः touching/knocking on लकडी, or merely stating कि तुम हैं doing or intend same, in अनुक्रम to avoid `` tempting भाग्य `` बाद बनाना a favourable अवलोकन, a boast, or घोषणा concerning one 's own मौत.
रॉकर भुजा
Generally referred to भीतर the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of the आतंरिक combustion engine of automotive, marine, motorcycle and प्रत्यागमनी aviation इंजन, the rocker भुजा is an oscillating लीवर that conveys radial movement इससे the cam पालि into रैखिक movement at the poppet वाल्व to खोलें it.
एक end is raised and lowered by a घूर्णन पालि of the camshaft ( either directly or via a tappet ( lifter ) और pushrod ) while the other end acts on the वाल्व स्टेम.
When the camshaft lobe उठाता the बाहर of the भुजा, the अंदर दबाता bas on the valve स्टेम, opening the वाल्व.
जब the बाहर of the भुजा is permitted to return due to the camshafts rotation, the inside उदय, allowing the वाल्व वसन्त to close the वाल्व.
the ड्राइव कैम is चलित by the camshaft.
This pushes the rocker भुजा up और down परिचय the trunnion pin or rocker शाफ्ट.
घर्षण may be reduced at the पाइंट of contact with the वाल्व स्टेम by a रोलर कैम अनुसरणकर्ता.
a similar व्यवस्था हस्तांतरण the motion via another roller cam follower to a दूसरी rocker भुजा.
This rotates about the रॉकर shaft, और transfers the गति via a tappet to the poppet वाल्व.
in इस case इस opens the intake valve to the बेलन सिर.
the effective leverage of the arm ( और यूँ the फ़ोर्स it can exert on the वाल्व स्टेम ) is determined by the rocker भुजा अनुपात, the ratio of the अलहदा from the rocker भुजा 's center of रोटेशन to the tip divided by the अलहदा from the बीच of rotation to the पाइंट acted on by the camshaft or pushrod.
वर्तमान automotive डिज़ाइन favors रॉकर arm ratios of about 1.5:1 to 1.8:1.
However, in the past smaller धनात्मक ratios ( the वाल्व lift is greater than the कैम लिफ्ट ) और भी ऋणात्मक ratios ( वाल्व lift smaller than the कैम lift ) have महरूम प्रयुक्त.
अनेक pre-ww2 इंजन use 1:1 ( neutral ) ratios.
लिये car इंजन the रॉकर बाहें हैं generally steel stampings, providing a reasonable संतुलन of शक्ति, वज़न और किफायती cost.
क्युकी the रॉकर arms are, in भाग, reciprocating वज़न, excessive mass especially at the लीवर ends limits the इंजन 's क्षमता to reach high ऑपरेटिंग speeds.
`` the रात्रि the लाइट्स Went Out in जॉर्जिया '' is a दक्षिणी गोथिक सोंग written by songwriter Bobby रसेल और performed in 1972 by his then-wife vicki लॉरेंस.
Reba mcentire later covered it in 1991.
Recorded in लेट अक्तूबर 1972 in united/western studios on सूर्यास्त in हॉलीवुड और released कम than दो weeks later in November 1972, the सोंग centers around the पुरानी brother of the narrator, falsely convicted of और चलाया for a हत्या, which the narrator herself रै committed.
In postal mail, a वापसी पता is an सुस्पष्ट inclusion of the पता of the व्यक्ति sending the संदेश.
it provides the recipient ( और sometimes प्राधिकृत intermediaries ) साथ a means to determine how to respond to the प्रेषक of the संदेश if needed.
the return address need not शामिल a प्रेषक 's नाम, लकिन should शामिल address or p.o. बक्सा details in the वही way as the delivery address should.
in some countries, the वापसी address is conventionally located in the अपर बाएँ हाथ कोने of the लिफाफा, कार्ड, or label.
In the संयुक्त किंगडम, the वापसी address is प्रायः लगाई on the reverse of the envelope, निकट the शीर्ष.
Businesses often उपयोग लिफाफे preprinted साथ a वापसी पता.
अनेक individuals have चादरें of चिपकने लेबल्स preprinted साथ उनके home पता to affix to उनके correspondence.
Charities sometimes शामिल ऐसे sheets in mailshots.
रोल्स of Return पता लेबल्स can be purchased from कंपनियाँ that sell personalized labels to provide individuals an easy रास्ता to छिलके और stick वापसी address लेबल्स to their लिफाफे.
the वापसी पता is नहीं required on डाक mail.
however, lack of a वापसी पता prevents the postal service from होने समर्थ to वापसी the item if it proves undeliverable ; such as इससे क्षति, postage due, or अमान्य गंतव्य.
ऐसे mail may यूँ become dead अक्षर मेल.
Should the return address be of a different state or देश, the mail may be routed through that स्थान लिये ease of return.
a nerve guidance conduit ( भी referred to as an कृत्रिम nerve conduit or artificial तंत्रिका graft, as opposed to an autograft ) is an कृत्रिम means of guiding axonal regrowth to facilitate तंत्रिका regeneration और is one of अनेक clinical उपचार लिये nerve चोटों.
When सीधा suturing of the two stumps of a severed तंत्रिका can नहीं be संपन्नता बगैर tension, the मानक नैदानिक उपचार for परिधीय तंत्रिका injuries is autologous तंत्रिका grafting.
Due to the सीमित availability of दाता tissue और functional रिकवरी in autologous तंत्रिका कलम, neural ऊतक अभियान्त्रिकी शोध has focused on the development of bioartificial nerve मार्गदर्शन conduits as an alternative उपचार, विशेषकर for large defects.
Similar तकनीकों हैं भी होने छान लिये nerve मरम्मत in the spinal cord लकिन nerve regeneration in the central बेचैन प्रणाली मुद्राएँ a वृहद challenge because इसके axons do not regenerate appreciably in उनके देशी पर्यावरण.
the creation of कृत्रिम conduits is भी ज्ञात as entubulation because the तंत्रिका ends and intervening गैप are enclosed भीतर a ट्यूब composed of biological or synthetic सामग्री.
Whether the conduit is in the form of a biologic ट्यूब, synthetic ट्यूब or tissue-engineered conduit, it should सुकर neurotropic और neurotrophic संचार between the proximal और distal ends of the nerve गैप, block बाह्य inhibitory कारकों, और provide a शारीरिक मार्गदर्शन लिये axonal regrowth.
The सबसे मौलिक उद्देश्य of a nerve guidance conduit is to combine शारीरिक, रासायनिक, और biological cues under conditions that होगा फोस्टर ऊतक formation.
सामग्री that have महरूम प्रयुक्त to मेक biologic tubes शामिल blood vessels और skeletal मांसपेशियां, जबकि nonabsorbable और bioabsorbable सिंथेटिक tubes have महरूम बना from silicone और polyglycolide respectively.
Tissue-engineered तंत्रिका मार्गदर्शन conduits are a संयोजन of अनेक तत्व : scaffold structure, scaffold सामग्री, सेल्यूलर therapies, neurotrophic factors and biomimetic सामग्री.
The choice of which physical, रासायनिक और biological cues to उपयोग is आधारित on the properties of the तंत्रिका पर्यावरण, which is नाजुक in बनाना the सबसे वांछनीय पर्यावरण लिये axon regeneration.
The factors कि कंट्रोल सामग्री चयन include biocompatibility, biodegradability, mechanical अखंडता, controllability दौरान तंत्रिका growth, implantation और sterilization.
हार्डकोर Pawn is an American वास्तविकता television series produced by rdf USA ( later Zodiak USA ) and रिचर्ड dominick प्रोडक्शन्स लिये trutv about the day-to-day परिचालन of American आभूषण और Loan, a family-owned साहूकार shop स्तिथ at 20450 greenfield सड़क, between 8 मील Road और the John C. Lodge फ्रीवे in डेट्रॉयट, Michigan.
the series premiered on अगस्त 16, 2010, delivering two लाख viewers, setting a रिकार्ड as truTV 's most-watched श्रेणी प्रीमियर कभी.
Amoxicillin BP
amoxicillin ( इन ), formerly amoxycillin ( बैन ), और abbreviated amox, is a moderate-spectrum, bacteriolytic, β-lactam antibiotic used to दावत bacterial infections caused by susceptible microorganisms.
It is usually the ड्रग of चुनाव भीतर the class क्युकी it is बेहतर absorbed, following मौखिक प्रशासन, than अन्य β-lactam एंटीबायोटिक.
amoxicillin is one of the most आम एंटीबायोटिक prescribed लिये children.
The ड्रग became available in 1972.
Amoxicillin is susceptible to degradation by β-lactamase -producing जीवाणु, जिससे हैं resistant to a broad वर्णक्रम of β-lactam एंटीबायोटिक, such as पेनिसिलीन.
लिये इस कारण, it is often संयुक्त साथ clavulanic एसिड, a β-lactamase inhibitor.
इस increases प्रभावकारिता by reducing इसके susceptibility to β-lactamase resistance.
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( अगस्त 27, 1908 – January 22, 1973 ), प्रायः referred to as lbj, थी the 36th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1963–1969 ), a position he assumed बाद his सेवा as the 37th वाइस अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य ( 1961–1963 ).
he is one of only four लोगों who परोसा in all four निर्वाचित संघीय offices of the संयुक्त States : प्रतिनिधि, Senator, Vice अध्यक्ष, और अध्यक्ष.
जॉनसन, a डेमोक्रेट from टेक्सास, परोसा as a संयुक्त States प्रतिनिधि इससे 1937–1949 और as a सीनेटर from 1949–1961, including छह सालो as संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट बहुमत नेता, दो as सीनेट अल्पसंख्यक Leader and two as सीनेट बहुमत Whip.
After campaigning unsuccessfully लिये the Democratic nomination in 1960, Johnson was asked by John F. कैनेडी to be उसके running mate लिये the 1960 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव.
Johnson succeeded to the प्रेसिडेंसी following the हत्या of John F. कैनेडी on नवम्बर 22, 1963, समाप्त Kennedy 's पद और was elected अध्यक्ष in उसके अपना right, winning by a विशाल margin over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 चुनाव.
Johnson थी greatly समर्थित by the लोकतांत्रिक Party और as अध्यक्ष, he थी जिम्मेदार for डिजाइनिंग the `` Great समाज `` विधान कि शामिल कानून कि upheld civil अधिकारों, पब्लिक प्रसारण, medicare, Medicaid, पर्यावरणीय protection, सहायता to शिक्षा, and his `` युद्ध on गरीबी. ''
जॉनसन थी प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके domineering personality and the `` जॉनसन treatment, '' his coercion of शक्तिशाली राजनेता in अनुक्रम to advance legislation.
meanwhile, जॉनसन escalated अमरीकी भागीदारी in the वियतनाम युद्ध, इससे 16,000 अमरीकी advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 combat सैनिकों in early 1968, as American हताहत soared और the सलाम process bogged bas.
the भागीदारी stimulated a विशाल एंग्री antiwar गति आधारित especially on university campuses in the u.S. and विदेश.
Summer दंगे broke आउट in सबसे प्रमुख शहरों after 1965, and अपराधों दरों soared, as his प्रतिद्वंद्वियों उठाया demands लिये `` law and order '' नीतियों.
the लोकतांत्रिक Party विभाजित in अनेक feuding गिरोहों, और after जॉनसन did poorly in the 1968 नई हैम्पशायर primary, he ended his बोली लिये reelection.
Republican रिचर्ड निक्सन थी elected to succeed उसे.
Historians argue कि Johnson 's presidency marked the शिखर of आधुनिक liberalism in the संयुक्त States बाद the New सौदे era.
जॉनसन is ranked favorably by some इतिहासकारों because of his घरेलू नीतियों.
The Big Bang सिद्धान्त डाल at Comic कॉन 2009, इससे बाएँ : कुणाल Nayyar, Simon helberg, kaley cuoco, जिम Parsons, और जॉनी Galecki
The American sitcom The Big बंग सिद्धान्त, निर्मित और कार्यपालिका produced by Chuck lorre और विधेयक prady, premiered on सीबीएस on September 24, 2007.
The show centers on पाँच वर्ण : roommates Sheldon कूपर और लियोनार्ड hofstadter, two caltech physicists ; पैनी, a waitress और aspiring actress जो जीवनदान आरपार the हॉल ; और Leonard and शेल्डन 's मित्रों और co-workers aerospace इंजीनियर हावर्ड wolowitz, और astrophysicist राजेश Koothrappali.
Over समय, अनेक supporting वर्ण have महरूम promoted to starring roles : Leslie winkle ( ऋतु 1 recurring ; season 2 नियमित ; ऋतु 3 guest ), a physicist सहयोगी, और, at different टाइम्स, a प्रेमी of दोनो Leonard and हावर्ड ; Bernadette rostenkowski-wolowitz ( ऋतु 3 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित ), a microbiologist, हावर्ड 's fiancée और subsequent बीवी, और former part-time waitress alongside पैनी ; neuroscientist एमी Farrah fowler ( season 3 अतिथि ; ऋतु 4 पुनरावर्ती ; season 4-present regular ), जो joins the group after होने matched to Sheldon on a डेटिंग जालस्थल ; and comic book store-owner, Stuart खिलते ( सीज़न 2–5 पुनरावर्ती ; season 6-present नियमित ), जो replaces Howard as राज 's best dost when हावर्ड is in space.
The दिखाएँ भी सुविधाएँ numerous supporting वर्ण, प्रत्येक of जिसको plays a prominent भूमिका in a छोटी समूह of एपीसोड.
the अमरीकी Civil युद्ध ( acw ), also ज्ञात as the युद्ध between the राज्य or simply the Civil युद्ध ( see नामकरण ), was a सिविल युद्ध fought इससे 1861 to 1865 between the United राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) and several Southern slave राज्य कि घोषित their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had इसके origin in the समस्या of गुलामी, especially the एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into the पश्चिमी territories.
Foreign powers did not intervene.
बाद four years of खूनी combat कि बाएँ over 600,000 सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the South 's अवसंरचना, the confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, और the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring नेशनल एकता और guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
in the 1860 अध्यक्षीय election, Republicans, led by अब्राहम Lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into संयुक्त राज्य ' territories.
Lincoln won, लकिन पहले उसके inauguration on March 4, 1861, सात cotton-based slave states formed the confederacy.
outgoing Democratic President जेम्स Buchanan and the आवक Republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural पता घोषित उसके प्रशासन होता not initiate civil war.
आठ बाकी स्लेव राज्य जारी to reject calls लिये secession.
confederate शक्तियां seized numerous federal forts भीतर territory claimed by the Confederacy.
a सलाम सम्मेलन failed to find a compromise, और दोनो पहलू prepared लिये war.
The confederates assumed that यूरोपीय देशों यहूद so dependent on `` किंग कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया and none पहचाना the new confederate States of अमेरिका.
hostilities began on April 12, 1861, जब confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter, a कुंजी फोर्ट held by Union troops in दक्षिण Carolina.
lincoln called for प्रत्येक राज्य to provide सैनिकों to retake the fort ; नतीजतन, चार अधिक स्लेव states joined the Confederacy, bringing उनके कुल to eleven.
The संघ soon नियंत्रित the किनारा states and स्थापित a नवल blockade कि अबोध the दक्षिणी अर्थव्यवस्था.
the पूर्वी थिएटर थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union राज्य ) ended साथ Confederate रिट्रीट at the बैटल of antietam, dissuading अंग्रेजों हस्तक्षेप.
lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, which made ending गुलामी a युद्ध लक्ष्य.
to the west, by गर्मियाँ 1862 the संघ नष्ट the confederate नदी navy, then much of their western सेना, and the Union at Vicksburg split the confederacy in दो at the मिसिसिपी River.
in 1863, रॉबर्ट E. ली 's confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the बैटल of gettysburg.
पश्चिमी successes led to ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of all संघ सेना in 1864.
in the Western थिएटर, William T. शरमन drove ईस्ट to capture अटलांटा और marched to the समुद्र, destroying Confederate infrastructure साथ the way.
the संघ marshaled the resources और जनशक्ति to attack the confederacy इससे सब directions, and could afford to लड़ो battles of अपघर्षण through the Overland Campaign towards रिचमंड, the confederate पूंजी.
the defending Confederate फौज विफल, अग्रणी to Lee 's surrender to ग्रान्ट at appomattox अदालत हाउस on April 9, 1865.
The अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध थी एक of the earliest true औद्योगिक युद्धों.
Railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, और mass-produced हथियार यहूद employed extensively.
the mobilization of civilian कारखानों, mines, shipyards, banks, परिवहन and food आपूर्तियाँ all foreshadowed World War I.
it remains the deadliest war in American इतिहास, resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 soldiers और an undetermined क्रमांक of civilian casualties.
इतिहासकार जॉन Huddleston estimates the मौत toll at ten प्रतिशत of all Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of सब दक्षिणी श्वेत males aged 18–40.
Human एवोल्यूशन refers to the evolutionary process leading up to the appearance of modern humans.
जबकि it began साथ the last common ancestor of सब जीवन, the topic usually covers तभी the विकासवादी इतिहास of primates, in particular the genus Homo, and the emergence of होमो sapiens as a पृथक प्रजाति of hominids ( or `` ग्रेट apes '' ).
the पढ़ाई of इंसान evolution involves अनेक वैज्ञानिक disciplines, सहित शारीरिक anthropology, primatology, पुरातत्व, भाषाविज्ञान, विकासवादी मनोविज्ञान, embryology और आनुवंशिकी.
according to जेनेटिक studies, primates diverged from other स्तनधारियों परिचय in the Late Cretaceous period, and the earliest जीवाश्मों appear in the Paleocene, around.
The परिवार मानवनुमा diverged from the Hylobatidae ( गिबन ) family 15-20 लाख years ago, और around, the ponginae ( orangutans ), diverged from the मानवनुमा परिवार.
bipedalism is the basic adaption of the hominin लकीर, और the earliest bipedal Hominin is considered to be either sahelanthropus or orrorin, साथ Ardipithecus, a पूरा bipedal, coming somewhat later.
the गोरिल्ला और चिंपैंजी diverged around the वही time, about 4-6 लाख सालो पहले, और either Sahelanthropus or orrorin may be our पिछला shared पूर्वज with उन्हें.
The जल्दी bipedals आखिरकार evolved into the australopithecines and later the genus होमो.
The earliest documented सदस्यों of the genus होमो are होमो habilis which विकसित around ; the earliest species for which there is positive evidence of use of स्टोन टूल्स.
the brains of these जल्दी hominins यहूद परिचय the same size as कि of a chimpanzee.
During the अगला million सालो a प्रक्रम of encephalization began, और with the आगमन of होमो erectus in the चट्टान रिकार्ड, cranial क्षमता had doubled to 850 cm3.
होमो इरेक्टस और होमो ergaster were the first of the hominina to leave अफ़्रीकी, और these प्रजाति स्प्रेड through Africa, Asia, और यूरोपीय between.
It is believed that ये species यहूद the first to उपयोग fire and जटिल टूल्स.
according to the हाल अफ़्रीकी Ancestry theory, आधुनिक इंसानो evolved in अफ़्रीकी संभवतः इससे होमो heidelbergensis, होमो rhodesiensis or होमो antecessor और migrated out of the महाद्वीप कुछ 50,000 to 100,000 सालो पहले, replacing local populations of Homo इरेक्टस, होमो denisova, होमो floresiensis और होमो neanderthalensis.
Archaic Homo sapiens, the forerunner of anatomically आधुनिक इंसानो, विकसित between 400,000 और 250,000 सालो पहले.
हाल DNA evidence suggests कि several haplotypes of neanderthal उत्पत्ति are present among सब non-african populations, और neanderthals और अन्य hominids, ऐसे as Denisova hominin may have contributed up to 6 % of उनके genome to present-day humans. < संदर्भ name= '' 10.1126/science.1209202 '' > Anatomically modern humans विकसित इससे archaic Homo sapiens in the मध्य Paleolithic, परिचय 200,000 सालो ago.
The परिवर्तन to behavioral modernity with the development of सांकेतिक संस्कृति, language, और specialized lithic प्रौद्योगिकी happened around 50,000 सालो ago according to many विज्ञानियों although कुछ suggest a क्रमिक बदलें in बर्ताव over a longer समय स्पैन.
Lisa cuddy, M.D., is a fictional अक्षर on the फॉक्स network medical नाटक हाउस.
She is portrayed by लिसा edelstein.
cuddy थी the डीन of आयुर्विज्ञान और hospital administrator of the fictional princeton-plainsboro Teaching Hospital in नई जर्सी.
She भी becomes House 's love interest through the years to start a relationship with उसे in ऋतु सात.
cuddy छोड़ो उसके job बाद the events of season सात 's finale `` चलती on ``.
track and field is a sport comprising विभिन्न competitive एथलेटिक प्रतियोगिताओं based on running, jumping, and throwing.
the name of the खेल derives इससे the प्रतियोगिता स्थान : a स्टेडियम साथ an ओवल कार्यशील track around a ग्रास field.
the throwing और jumping कार्यक्रम generally take प्लेस in the सेंट्रल enclosed क्षेत्रफल.
Track and field falls अंतर्गत the छतरियाँ sport of एथलेटिक्स, जिससे also includes road कार्यशील, क्रॉस देश running, और race walking.
the two सबसे prestigious international track और फ़ील्ड प्रतियोगिताओं हैं held अंतर्गत the banner of athletics : the एथलेटिक्स प्रतियोगिता at the Olympic Games and the आइएएएफ World championships in Athletics.
the अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ of एथलेटिक्स federations is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय शासी body लिये track and फ़ील्ड.
Track and फ़ील्ड events हैं generally individual खेल साथ एथलीट चुनौतीपूर्ण each अन्य to decide a single विक्टर.
The रेसिंग कार्यक्रम are won by the खिलाड़ी साथ the fastest समय, जबकि the कूद और फेंकना events हैं won by the खिलाड़ी who has हासिल the greatest अलहदा or height in the प्रतियोगिता.
the कार्यशील कार्यक्रम are categorised as sprints, middle and long-distance कार्यक्रम, relays, और hurdling.
Regular कूद कार्यक्रम include long jump, ट्रिपल jump, high जम्प and pole vault, while the सबसे आम throwing events हैं शॉट put, javelin, discus और हथौड़ा.
There हैं भी `` combined कार्यक्रम '', ऐसे as heptathlon और decathlon, in जिससे athletes compete in a number of the ऊपर events.
रिकॉर्ड हैं रखा of the बेहतरीन प्रदर्शन in विशिष्ट events, at संसार और नेशनल levels, सही down to a personal level.
However, if athletes हैं deemed to have violated the इवेंट 's rules or regulations, वे हैं disqualified इससे the प्रतियोगिता and उनके marks हैं erased.
In उत्तर अमेरिका, the पद track and फ़ील्ड may be प्रयुक्त to refer to एथलेटिक्स in सामान्य, बल्कि than specifically track और field कार्यक्रम.
The Gulf War ( 2 August 1990 – 28 फ़रवरी 1991 ), codenamed Operation Desert तूफ़ान ( 17 जनवरी 1991 – 28 February 1991 ) थी a war waged by a U.N.-authorized गठबन्धन force इससे 34 राष्ट्र led by the United राज्य, against इराकी in response to Iraq 's invasion और annexation of कुवैत.
The war is also ज्ञात under other names, ऐसे as the पारसी Gulf युद्ध, पहला गल्फ युद्ध, गल्फ युद्ध i, or the पहला इराकी War, before the term `` इराकी युद्ध '' became identified instead with the 2003 Iraq युद्ध ( भी referred to in the u.S. as `` Operation Iraqi स्वतंत्रता '' ).
Kuwait 's आक्रमण by इराकी सैनिकों कि began 2 अगस्त 1990 was मिले with अंतरराष्ट्रीय condemnation, और brought तात्कालिक economic प्रतिबंधों विरूद्ध Iraq by सदस्यों of the u.N. सुरक्षा परिषद.
u.S. अध्यक्ष George H. W. बुश deployed U.S. forces into सऊदी अरब, और urged other देशों to send their own शक्तियां to the scene.
An सरणी of राष्ट्र joined the Coalition.
the ग्रेट बहुमत of the गठबन्धन 's सैन्य शक्तियां were इससे the u.S., with सऊदी अरब, the संयुक्त Kingdom and मिश्र as leading योगदानकर्ता, in कि order.
सऊदी Arabia paid around us $ 36 billion of the US $ 60 अरब cost.
The युद्ध was चिह्नित by the beginning of सजीव न्यूज on the front lines of the लड़ो, with the primacy of the U.S. संजाल CNN.
the युद्ध रै भी earned the उपनाम वीडियो Game युद्ध बाद the रोज़ broadcast बिंब on फलक the U.S. bombers during Operation मरुस्थल तूफ़ान.
The initial विरोध to निकाल Iraqi सैनिकों इससे कुवैत began साथ an aerial बमबारी on 17 January 1991.
इस थी followed by a ground उत्पीड़न on 24 फ़रवरी.
इस थी a निर्णायक विजय लिये the गठबन्धन forces, जो liberated कुवैत और उन्नत into इराकी territory.
the गठबन्धन ceased their अग्रिम, and घोषित a cease-fire 100 घंटों after the मैदान अभियान started.
Aerial और मैदान कॉम्बैट was confined to इराकी, Kuwait, और क्षेत्रों on सऊदी Arabia 's किनारा.
इराकी launched scud missiles against गठबन्धन सैन्य targets in सऊदी Arabia and विरूद्ध Israel.
The nickel, in American usage, is a five- cent coin issued by the United States मिंट.
रचित of 75 % तांबे and 25 % nickel, the piece रै महरूम struck since 1866.
the चांदी half dime, equal to five सेंट, था महरूम issued since the 1790s.
The अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध caused आर्थिक hardship, driving gold और चांदी इससे circulation ; in जवाब, in प्लेस of low-value coins, the government at पहला issued पेपर करेंसी.
in 1865, Congress abolished the five-cent fractional करेंसी note after Spencer M. Clark, head of the करेंसी Bureau ( today the Bureau of नक्काशी और Printing ), placed उसके अपना portrait on the denomination.
बाद कामयाब परिचय of two-cent and three-cent pieces, without precious metal, Congress भी प्राधिकृत a five-cent टुकड़ा consisting of base मेटल ; the मिंट began striking this version in 1866.
the आरंभिक डिज़ाइन of the शील्ड nickel was struck until 1883, then replaced by the स्वतंत्रता Head nickel.
The Buffalo निकल थी introduced in 1913 as part of a drive to बढ़ाएँ the beauty of American coinage ; in 1938, the जेफरसन nickel followed.
in 2004 and 2005, खास डिजाइन in सम्मान of the bicentennial of the लुईस and Clark expedition were issued.
In 2006, the मिंट reverted to using जेफरसन निकल designer फेलिक्स Schlag 's असली रिवर्स ( or `` tails '' पक्ष ), हालांकि a नई obverse, by जेमी Franki, थी substituted.
As of 2013, it costs अधिक than ग्यारह सेंट to produce a nickel ; the मिंट is exploring the सम्भावना of reducing लागत by using less महंगी धातुओं.
a पोस्टर साथ पुष्प or clusters of flowers produced by बारह प्रजाति of flowering पौधे from different परिवारों
A flower, sometimes ज्ञात as a bloom or खिलना, is the reproductive ढांचा मिला in flowering plants ( पौधे of the प्रभाग magnoliophyta, also पुकारा angiosperms ).
the biological फलन of a पुष्प is to प्रभाव reproduction, usually by providing a यांत्रिकी लिये the union of शुक्राणु with अंडे.
पुष्प may सुकर outcrossing ( संलयन of शुक्राणु और eggs from अलग individuals in a population ) or allow selfing ( संलयन of sperm और अंडा from the वही पुष्प ).
कुछ पुष्प produce diaspores without fertilization ( parthenocarpy ).
Flowers contain sporangia and हैं the site जहाँ gametophytes develop.
पुष्प give rise to फल and seeds.
अनेक flowers have evolved to be आकर्षक to animals, so as to cause उन्हें to be सदिश for the transfer of पराग.
In addition to facilitating the जनन of flowering पौधे, पुष्प have long महरूम admired और used by इंसानो to beautify their environment, and भी as वस्तुएँ of रोमांस, ritual, धर्म, आयुर्विज्ञान and as a source of खाना.
the McDonnell डगलस ( अभी बोइंग ) F-15 Eagle is a twin-engine, all-weather रणनीतिक fighter designed by McDonnell Douglas to लाभ और maintain air बड़प्पन in aerial combat.
it is माना among the सबसे कामयाब आधुनिक सेनानी, साथ over 100 aerial कॉम्बैट victories साथ no losses in dogfights.
Following reviews of proposals, the United States एयर फ़ोर्स selected mcdonnell डगलस ' डिज़ाइन in 1967 to meet the service 's need लिये a dedicated एयर बड़प्पन सेनानी.
the Eagle first उड़ाया in जुलाई 1972, और डाला सेवा in 1976.
चूंकि the 1970s, the त्रिभुज रै महरूम exported to इसराईल, Japan, सऊदी Arabia, और अन्य राष्ट्र.
the f-15 was originally envisioned as a pure एयर superiority वायुयान.
इसके डिज़ाइन शामिल a secondary ground-attack काबिलियत कि was largely अप्रयुक्त.
The डिज़ाइन proved लचीली पर्याप्त कि an all-weather स्ट्राइक डेरिवेटिव, the F-15E स्ट्राइक त्रिभुज, was later developed, and डाला सेवा in 1989.
The F-15 त्रिभुज is expected to be in सेवा साथ the U.S. Air फ़ोर्स past 2025.
Mimio is a ब्रांड name of a line of प्रौद्योगिकी products aimed at the शिक्षा मार्केट.
The primary products are केन्द्रित around computer whiteboard इंटरैक्टिव शिक्षण डिवाइस.
MimioCapture devices भी allow उपयोक्ता to कैप्चर all of the ink strokes कि हैं लिखा on the whiteboard.
When used in संयोजन साथ a video प्रोजेक्टर it turns the ordinary whiteboard surface into a fully interactive whiteboard.
The product line was originally designed by Virtual Ink.
on अक्तूबर 4, 2006 newell rubbermaid acquired the Mimio इंटरैक्टिव whiteboard ( iWB ) उत्पाद line.
rahab of जेरिको
rahab, ( ; ; ) was, according to the किताब of Joshua, a स्त्री who lived in जेरिको in the Promised Land और assisted the israelites in capturing the नगर.
Nearly सब अंग्रेज़ी अनुवाद of Joshua describe her as a बदचलन or वेश्या.
The संगठन of American States ( स्पेनी : organización de लॉस estados americanos, Portuguese : Organização डॉस estados americanos, French : संगठन देस états américains ), or the oas, is a क्षेत्रीय अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन.
The oas थी founded on 30 April 1948, और has its headquarters in वॉशिंगटन, d.C., संयुक्त States.
इसके members are the 35 independent राज्य of the americas.
चूंकि 26 May 2005, the सचिव सामान्य of oas रै महरूम जोस मिगुएल Insulza.
क्रिस्टोफर कोलंबस ( इतालवी : Cristoforo Colombo ; स्पेनी : cristóbal colón ; पुर्तगाली : cristóvão कोलोन ; पहले 31 अक्तूबर 145120 May 1506 ) थी an इतालवी explorer, navigator, और colonizer, born in the गणतंत्र of Genoa, in कया is आज northwestern Italy.
अंतर्गत the auspices of the Catholic monarchs of स्पेन, he completed four voyages across the अटलांटिक समंदर कि led to सामान्य European जागरूकता of the American continents.
those voyages, and his efforts to स्थापित स्थाई settlements on the island of हिस्पानिओला, initiated the स्पेनी colonization of the नई World.
In the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of उभरते पश्चिमी साम्राज्यवाद और आर्थिक प्रतियोगिता between यूरोपीय kingdoms seeking माल through the establishment of व्यापार routes और colonies, Columbus 's speculative प्रस्ताव, to पहुँचें the ईस्ट इंडीज by sailing westward, आखिरकार received the support of the स्पेनी क्राउन, जिससे देखी in it a promise, however रिमोट, of gaining the अपर हाथ over rival powers in the प्रतियोगिता लिये the lucrative मसाला व्यापार साथ एशिया.
दौरान his पहला voyage in 1492, instead of reaching जापानी as he था intended, कोलंबस उतरा in the Bahamas archipelago, at a locale he named सैन Salvador.
over the कोर्स of तीन अधिक voyages, Columbus visited the वृहद और lesser Antilles, as खूब as the caribbean coast of वेनेजुएला and सेंट्रल अमेरिका, claiming उन्हें for the स्पेनी साम्राज्य.
हालांकि कोलंबस was नहीं the पहला यूरोपीय एक्सप्लोरर to reach the Americas ( having महरूम preceded by the नॉर्स expedition led by leif Ericson in the 11th सदी ), कोलंबस 's voyages led to the पहला स्थायी यूरोपीय contact साथ the Americas, inaugurating a काल of यूरोपीय खोजी, conquest, and colonization कि lasted लिये अनेक centuries.
They था, therefore, an enormous प्रभाव in the historical development of the आधुनिक Western world.
कोलंबस himself देखी his accomplishments primarily in the लाइट of the spreading of the ईसाई religion.
never admitting कि he had पहुँचे a महाद्वीप previously अनजान to Europeans, बल्कि than the ईस्ट इंडीज he had नियत आउट लिये, कोलंबस पुकारा the निवासियों of the lands he visited indios ( Spanish लिये `` Indians `` ).
कोलंबस 's strained संबंध with the Spanish crown और its नियुक्त औपनिवेशिक administrators in अमेरिका led to his गिरफ़्तार और dismissal as governor of the settlements on the द्वीप of Hispaniola in 1500, और बाद to protracted litigation over the लाभ जिससे कोलंबस और उसके वारिस claimed यहूद owed to them by the crown.
करवाया in Germany, the boxer is a breed of stocky, medium-sized, short-haired कुत्तो.
The कोट is चिकना and tight-fitting ; colors हैं fawn or brindled, साथ or without white markings, which may cover the entire body.
Boxers are brachycephalic ( वे have broad, short skulls ), and have a वर्गाकार muzzle, mandibular prognathism ( an underbite ), very strong jaws, और a शक्तिशाली bite ideal लिये hanging on to विशाल prey.
the boxer was bred इससे the बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी Bulldog and the अभी विलुप्त bullenbeisser, और is भाग of the molosser समूह.
मुक्केबाज were first exhibited in a dog दिखाएँ for st. bernards in म्यूनिख in 1895, the first Boxer club होने संस्थापित the next साल.
Based on 2012 American kennel क्लबों आंकडे, मुक्केबाज आयोजित स्थिर as the seventh most popular नस्ल of श्वान in the संयुक्त States लिये the third consecutive year.
सीरियल ata ( sata ) is a कंप्यूटर बस इंटरफ़ेस that connects host बस adapters to द्रव्यमान भंडार डिवाइस ऐसे as hard disk drives और ऑप्टिकल drives.
सीरियल ata replaces the पुरानी at Attachment मानक ( ata ; बाद referred to as समानांतर ata or PATA ), offering several लाभ over the पुरानी interface : घटाया केबल size और लागत ( सात conductors बजाय of 40 ), native hot swapping, तेज़ आंकड़ा ट्रांसफ़र through उच्चतर signalling दरों, और more efficient ट्रांसफ़र through an ( वैकल्पिक ) I/O queuing प्रोटोकॉल.
sata host adapters and डिवाइस communicate via a high-speed serial cable over two pairs of conductors.
in कंट्रास्ट, parallel ata ( the redesignation लिये the legacy ata specifications ) प्रयुक्त a 16-bit चौड़ी आंकड़ा bus साथ अनेक अतिरिक्त support and कंट्रोल सिग्नल, all ऑपरेटिंग at much निम्नतर frequency.
To ensure backward संगतता साथ विरासत ata तन्त्र और applications, sata उपयोग the same basic ata and atapi command-set as legacy ata डिवाइस.
SATA has replaced समानांतर ata in उपभोक्ता desktop और laptop कंप्यूटर, और रै largely replaced PATA in नई अंतःस्थापित applications.
SATA 's मार्केट share in the desktop PC मार्केट थी 99 % in 2008.
PATA remains widely प्रयुक्त in औद्योगिक and अंतःस्थापित अनुप्रयोग कि use compactflash भंडार, भी though the नई CFast standard is आधारित on SATA.
सीरियल ata industry compatibility विशेषताएँ originate from the सीरियल ATA अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन ( उर्फ.
SATA-IO, serialata.org ).
the SATA-IO group collaboratively creates, reviews, ratifies, और publishes the interoperability विशेषताएँ, the test cases, and plug-fests.
as with अनेक अन्य industry संगतता मानकों, the SATA content स्वामित्व is transferred to अन्य उद्योग bodies : primarily the incits t13 subcommittee ata, the incits T10 उपसमिति ( scsi ) ; a subgroup of t10 जिम्मेदार लिये Serial संलग्न SCSI ( SAS ).
the complete specification इससे sata-io.
the remainder of this article होगा try to use the terminology and विशेषताएँ of sata-io.
the इतिहास of the अंतरजाल began with the development of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक computers in the 1950s.
the पब्लिक was first introduced to the concepts कि होता lead to the अंतरजाल when a संदेश थी sent over the ARPANet इससे computer science प्राध्यापक Leonard Kleinrock 's प्रयोगशाला at विश्वविद्यालयों of California, लॉस एंजिल्स ( ucla ), after the दूसरी टुकड़ा of संजाल equipment थी संस्थापित at Stanford शोध संस्थान ( श्री ).
Packet switched संजाल ऐसे as ARPANET, Mark i at NPL in the uk, cyclades, Merit संजाल, Tymnet, and telenet, were विकसित in the लेट 1960s and early 1970s using a किस्में of प्रोटोकॉल.
the arpanet in particular led to the विकास of प्रोटोकॉल for internetworking, in which अनेक पृथक networks could be joined together into a संजाल of networks.
in 1982, the अंतरजाल protocol सुइट ( TCP/IP ) थी मानकीकृत, and नतीजतन, the अवधारणा of a world-wide संजाल of interconnected TCP/IP संजाल, पुकारा the अंतरजाल, थी introduced.
Access to the ARPANET was विस्तारित in 1981 जब the नेशनल Science न्यास ( NSF ) विकसित the Computer विज्ञान Network ( csnet ) and again in 1986 when nsfnet provided अभिगम to supercomputer साइट in the United States इससे शोध और शिक्षा संगठन.
Commercial अंतरजाल सेवा providers ( isps ) began to emerge in the लेट 1980s और early 1990s.
the ARPANET थी decommissioned in 1990.
The अंतरजाल was commercialized in 1995 जब nsfnet थी decommissioned, removing the पिछला restrictions on the उपयोग of the अंतरजाल to carry वाणिज्यिक traffic.
Since the mid-1990s, the Internet रै था a क्रांतिकारी प्रभाव on culture और कॉमर्स, सहित the वृद्धि of near-instant संचार by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक मेल, तत्काल messaging, आवाज़ over अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( VoIP ) `` फोन काल्स '', two-way interactive वीडियो काल्स, and the संसार चौड़ी Web साथ इसके चर्चा forums, ब्लॉग, सोशल नेटवर्किंग, और online shopping साइट.
The research and education जातियाँ continues to develop and use उन्नत संजाल ऐसे as nsf 's बहुत ऊँची speed Backbone Network सेवा ( vBNS ), internet2, और National LambdaRail.
increasing amounts of data हैं transmitted at उच्चतर and उच्चतर speeds over fiber optic networks operating at 1-gbit/s, 10-gbit/s, or more.
The अंतरजाल 's कब्ज़ा over the वैश्विक संचार लैंडस्केप was लगभग instant in historical शर्तें : it तभी communicated 1 % of the information बहती through two-way दूरसंचार networks in the साल 1993, already 51 % by 2000, और more than 97 % of the telecommunicated सूचना by 2007.
आज the Internet continues to grow, driven by कभी वृहद amounts of online information, कॉमर्स, entertainment, and social नेटवर्किंग.
the Gift is the दूसरी एल्बम by स्कॉटिश सिंगर Susan बॉयल, which थी released on 8 नवम्बर 2010.
बॉयल hinted कि the एल्बम रै a 1960s महसूस `` क्युकी कि was [ her ] era ''.
on 30 November 2011, the एल्बम प्राप्त a नामांकन in 54th ग्रैमी पुरस्कार for Best परंपरागत Pop Vocal Album.
`` इस is Just to कह '' ( 1934 ) is a प्रसिद्ध imagist poem by विलियम Carlos विलियम्स.
प्राध्यापक Albus Percival Wulfric Brian डम्बल्डोर is a major character and समर्थक of J. K. रोलिंग 's हैरी Potter series.
For most of the series, he is the हेडमास्टर of the wizarding स्कूल हॉग्वार्ट्स.
as भाग of उसके backstory, it is revealed कि he is the founder and leader of the Order of the फीनिक्स, an संगठन dedicated to लड़ the प्रमुख antagonist of the श्रेणी, रब Voldemort.
Dumbledore is portrayed by रिचर्ड हैरिस in the फिल्मी adaptions of Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone और हैरी Potter and the कक्ष of Secrets.
बाद हैरिस ' मौत, माइकल Gambon portrayed Dumbledore लिये सब of the remaining films.
रोलिंग stated she chose the name डम्बल्डोर, जिससे is an जल्दी आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी word लिये `` bumblebee ``, because of Dumbledore 's प्रेम of म्यूज़िक : she imagined उसे walking around `` humming to खुद a लॉट ''.
Calcitonin ( भी known as thyrocalcitonin ) is a 32-amino एसिड रैखिक polypeptide hormone that is produced in humans primarily by the parafollicular cells ( also known as C-cells ) of the थायराइड, और in अनेक अन्य पशु in the ultimobranchial देह.
it अधिनियमों to reduce रक्त कैल्सियम ( ca2+ ), opposing the प्रभाव of parathyroid hormone ( pth ).
calcitonin रै been मिला in मछली, reptiles, पक्षियों, और mammals.
इसके importance in humans रै नहीं महरूम as खूब स्थापित as इसके महत्व in other animals, as इसके function is usually not significant in the regulation of normal कैल्सियम समस्थापन.
it belongs to calcitonin-like protein परिवार.
A mousepad साथ a padded wrist rest.
A mousepad ( us ) or mouse mat ( UK ) is a सतह for रखकर और moving a computer mouse.
a mousepad enhances the उपयोगिता of the mouse compared to using a mouse सीधे on a table by providing a surface to allow the tracking led or ball ( in former models ) to माप movement accurately और बगैर जिटर.
कुछ mousepads बढ़ाएँ ergonomics by providing a padded कलाई rest.
the stadium seen इससे above in 1980
दिसम्बर 29, 2002 implosion
the riverfront स्टेडियम साईट in जून, 2006.
This फ़ोटो थी लिया इससे the पश्चिमी concourse of ग्रेट American बॉल पार्क.
a छोटी portion of the riverfront Stadium site is now occupied by the लाल ' हॉल of कीर्ति और Museum और प्रमुख Street, जिससे थी extended जब the नई park थी built.
The Cincinnati Bengals ' पॉल Brown Stadium is in the distance.
riverfront स्टेडियम ( 1970–1995 ), बाद known as Cinergy फ़ील्ड ( 1996–2002 ), थी the घर of the सिनसिनाटी Reds National लीग baseball टोली and the Cincinnati bengals नेशनल Football लीग टोली.
स्तिथ on the Ohio नदी in शहर Cincinnati, the स्टेडियम थी बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the home of `` The बिग Red Machine ``, as the Reds यहूद प्रायः पुकारा in the 1970s.
निर्माण began on फ़रवरी 1, 1968, and थी completed at a cost of कम than $ 50 लाख.
on जून 30, 1970, the लाल hosted the Atlanta Braves in their grand opening, with हांक Aaron hitting the first कभी घर चलाएं at riverfront.
दो weeks बाद on जुलाई 14, 1970, Riverfront hosted the 1970 प्रमुख League बेसबॉल All-Star Game.
इस game is बेहतरीन remembered लिये the often-replayed collision at home थाली between Reds स्टार पीट रोज़ and catcher रे fosse of the Cleveland Indians.
in सितंबर 1996, riverfront स्टेडियम थी renamed `` Cinergy फ़ील्ड '' in a sponsorship deal साथ वृहद सिनसिनाटी 's energy कम्पनी, Cinergy Corporation.
in 2001, to मेक रूम लिये Great अमरीकी Ball Park, the seating capacity at Cinergy फ़ील्ड थी reduced to 39,000.
वहीँ थी a विशाल वॉल in Center फ़ील्ड दृश्य बाद the renovations, to serve as the batter 's नजर.
the stadium was demolished by implosion on दिसम्बर 29, 2002.
nexen Tire is a tire manufacturer, headquartered in Yangsan, South gyeongsang Province, और सियोल, both in दक्षिण Korea.
इसके प्रमुख domestic competitors are Hankook Tire और kumho Tires.
the company 's नाम is reflected in the कम्पनी स्लोगन, `` Next Century टायर. ''
The मूक majority is an unspecified विशाल majority of लोगों in a country or group जो do not express their राय publicly.
the term थी popularized ( though नहीं first प्रयुक्त ) by U.S. अध्यक्ष Richard Nixon in a November 3, 1969, speech in जिससे he कहा, `` और so tonight—to तुम, the ग्रेट silent बहुमत of my fellow americans—i ask लिये अपना support. ''
in this उपयोग it referred to those Americans who किया नहीं join in the विशाल demonstrations विरूद्ध the Vietnam War at the time, who did नहीं join in the counterculture, और who किया not participate in पब्लिक प्रवचन.
निक्सन साथ साथ अनेक अन्य saw this समूह of मध्य अमेरिकी as होने overshadowed in the मीडिया by the अधिक vocal अल्पसंख्यक.
The phrase थी प्रयुक्त in the 19th सदी as a euphemism referring to सब the लोगों who have died, and others have प्रयुक्त it पहले और बाद निक्सन to refer to समूह of मतदाता in various राष्ट्र of the संसार.
Sam, a rhesus monkey, उड़ाया to an ऊँचाई of 88 km in 1959.
( नासा )
Before इंसानो गई into स्पेस, several पशु यहूद launched into स्पेस, सहित numerous बंदरों, so कि scientists could investigate the biological effects of स्पेस travel.
the संयुक्त States launched flights containing primate cargo primarily between 1948-1961 साथ one flight in 1969 and एक in 1985.
फ़्रांस शुभारम्भ two monkey-carrying फ़्लाइट in 1967.
the सोवियत Union and रूस शुभारम्भ monkeys between 1983 और 1996.
Most monkeys were anesthetized पहले lift-off.
Overall thirty-two monkeys flew in the space program ; none उड़ाया अधिक than एकबार.
numerous back-up बंदरों also went through the कार्यक्रम लकिन never flew.
Monkeys इससे अनेक प्रजाति यहूद used, including rhesus monkeys, cynomolgus बंदरों, गिलहरी बंदरों, and pig-tailed macaques.
Some chimpanzees ( जिससे हैं apes बल्कि than monkeys ) were also प्रयुक्त.
रेड ( अनावश्यक सरणी of independent डिस्क, originally अनावश्यक सरणी of inexpensive डिस्क ) is a भंडार technology कि combines multiple डिस्क drive components into a लॉजिकल ईकाई.
Data is distributed आरपार the drives in one of अनेक तरीके called `` रेड स्तर '', depending on the level of redundancy और performance required.
the पद `` रेड '' थी first defined by दाउद Patterson, Garth A. Gibson, और रैंडी Katz at the विश्वविद्यालयों of California, Berkeley in 1987.
Marketers representing industry रेड निर्माताओं बाद attempted to reinvent the पद to describe a अनावश्यक सरणी of independent डिस्क as a means of disassociating a low-cost अपेक्षा from RAID प्रौद्योगिकी.
रेड is अभी used as an umbrella term लिये कंप्यूटर आंकड़ा storage schemes कि can divide and replicate data among अनेक शारीरिक ड्राइव : रेड is an example of storage virtualization और the array can be accessed by the operating system as one सिंगल drive.
the different schemes or architectures हैं named by the word RAID followed by a क्रमांक ( e.g. RAID 0, RAID 1 ).
प्रत्येक scheme provides a अलग संतुलन between the कुंजी लक्ष्य : विश्वसनीयता और availability, प्रदर्शन और क्षमता.
RAID स्तर वृहद than रेड 0 provide protection विरूद्ध unrecoverable ( सेक्टर ) read त्रुटियाँ, as खूब as whole डिस्क विफलता.
A lymphocyte is a प्रकार of white रक्त कोशिका in the vertebrate immune system.
अंतर्गत the सूक्ष्मदर्शी, lymphocytes can be divided into large lymphocytes और small lymphocytes.
विशाल granular lymphocytes शामिल प्राकृतिक killer cells ( nk कोशिकाएं ).
छोटी lymphocytes consist of T cells and b कोशिकाएं.
the बिग Lebowski is a 1998 dark कॉमेडी फिल्मी लिखा और directed by जोएल और ethan Coen.
जेफ़ पुलों सितारों as जेफ़ Lebowski, an बेरोजगार Los एंजिल्स slacker and avid bowler, nicknamed `` The यार. ''
बाद a case of mistaken identity, the यार is introduced to a करोड़पति भी नामित जेफरी Lebowski.
जब the करोड़पति lebowski 's ट्रॉफी बीवी is later kidnapped, he आयोग The यार to उद्धार the फिरौती to सुरक्षित her रिलीज.
the योजना goes awry जब The Dude 's friend वाल्टर sobchak ( जॉन गुडमैन ) योजनाएं to रखना the full फिरौती.
स्टीव buscemi, फिलिप Seymour Hoffman, David Huddleston, julianne Moore, tara reid, और John turturro भी star in the फिल्मी, which is narrated by a काउंटी known तभी as `` the अजनबी '', played by sam elliott.
the film is loosely प्रेरित by the work of रेमंड Chandler.
Joel कोएन stated : `` we चाही to do a चांडलर दयालु of story – कैसा it चालें episodically, और deals साथ the वर्ण trying to unravel a रहस्य, as well as having a hopelessly complex प्लाट that 's ultimately महत्वहीन. ''
the असली स्कोर was composed by कार्टर Burwell, a longtime collaborator of the कोएन भाइयो.
The बिग Lebowski थी a निराशा at the u.S. बक्सा दफ्तर और received मिश्रित समीक्षाएँ at the समय of इसके release.
Reviews have trended towards the धनात्मक over समय, और the फिल्मी रै become a cult पसंदीदा, विख्यात for its idiosyncratic characters, सपना sequences, unconventional संवाद, and eclectic साउंडट्रैक.
Severus snape is a fictional character in the Harry कुम्हार किताब series लिखा by j.K. Rowling.
in the पहला अनोखा of the series, he is hostile toward हैरी और is निर्मित up to be the primary antagonist जबतक the final अध्याय.
as the series progresses, snape 's अक्षर becomes अधिक परतदार और complex.
Rowling करता नहीं fully खुलासा the details of उसके true loyalties जबतक the समाप्त of the final book, हैरी Potter and the deathly hallows.
over the कोर्स of the श्रेणी, Snape 's portrayal evolves इससे कि of a दुर्भावनापूर्ण और partisan टीचर to कि of a pivotal अक्षर of considerable जटिलता और moral ambiguity.
snape primarily सिखाती potions at Hogwarts, हालांकि in the sixth अनोखा he सिखाती Defence विरूद्ध the Dark कला, a position जिससे he was ज्ञात to have desired throughout the श्रेणी.
he ultimately becomes हेडमास्टर of Hogwarts in the फाइनल novel.
रोलिंग रै वर्णित him as `` a तोहफा of a character ''.
grits refers to a ground-corn खाना of Native अमरीकी उत्पत्ति, that is आम in the Southern United राज्य and मुख्यतः eaten at नाश्ता.
आधुनिक grits are commonly made of alkali-treated मकई known as hominy.
Grits हैं समान to other मोटा maize-based porridges इससे around the संसार ऐसे as polenta or the thinner farina.
`` तत्काल grits '' have been processed to गति कुकिंग.
the word `` grits '' गर्भाशयी from the बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी word `` grytt, '' अर्थ coarse भोजन.
This शब्द originally referred to गेहूं और other porridges अभी ज्ञात as groats in भाग of the u.K..
मक्का, अनजान in यूरोपीय in the मध्य आयु, is a खाना निकला इससे corn ( a नई World plant ) और `` corn '' had महरूम used to describe गेहूं products in many यूरोपीय regions.
`` Grits '' may be either एकवचन or बहुवचन ; historically, in the American दक्षिण the word was invariably एकवचन notwithstanding इसके plural रूप ( cf. such food names as `` स्पघेटी '' or `` linguine '', likewise plural in रूप, but singular in उपयोग ).
sometimes, grits are पुकारा sofkee or sofkey ( इससे a देशी अमरीकी muskogee word ).
In आणविक biology, इंसान chorionic gonadotropin ( hcg ) is a हार्मोन produced by the निषेचित अंडा after conception.
बाद दौरान pregnancy it is बना by the developing placenta, और बाद by the placental घटक syncytiotrophoblast.
Some cancerous tumors उपज इस हार्मोन ; इसलिए, elevated स्तर measured जब the रोगी is नहीं गर्भवती can सीसे to a कर्कट निदान.
however, it is नहीं ज्ञात whether इस उत्पादन is a contributing cause or an effect of tumorigenesis.
the pituitary एनॉलॉग of hCG, known as luteinizing हार्मोन ( lh ), is produced in the pituitary gland of males और महिलाओं of all ages.
, the FDA रै निषिद्ध the sale of `` homeopathic '' और over the काउंटर hcg आहार products and घोषित उन्हें fraudulent and illegal.
The लास वेगास Strip संसार of Coca-Cola संग्रहालय in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated नरम drink बेची in stores, रेस्तरां, और vending मशीने in every देश except क्यूबा और North कोरियाई.
it is produced by the coca-cola कम्पनी of Atlanta, जॉर्जिया, और is प्रायः referred to simply as कोक ( a registered ट्रेडमार्क of the coca-cola कम्पनी in the संयुक्त States since कूच 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a पेटेंट medicine जब it थी invented in the लेट 19th सदी by जॉन Pemberton, Coca-Cola was खरीदा आउट by बिजनेसमैन Asa griggs Candler, whose marketing tactics led Coke to its dominance of the संसार soft-drink market throughout the 20th सदी.
The company produces concentrate, जिससे is तब बेची to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the संसार.
The bottlers, जो थाम territorially विशेष अनुबंध साथ the कम्पनी, produce समाप्त उत्पाद in डिब्बे और बोतलों from the concentrate in combination साथ filtered water और sweeteners.
the bottlers then बेचें, वितरित और merchandise coca-cola to retail स्टोर्स and वेंडिंग machines.
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola Enterprises, जिससे is the largest सिंगल Coca-Cola bottler in उत्तर अमेरिका और पश्चिमी यूरोपीय.
The coca-cola कम्पनी भी बिकता concentrate लिये सोडा स्रोतों to major रेस्तरां और खाना सेवा distributors.
The coca-cola कम्पनी has, on occasion, introduced अन्य cola पेय अंतर्गत the कोक ब्रांड name.
The सबसे common of ये is Diet Coke, with others including caffeine-free Coca-Cola, Diet कोक caffeine-free, Coca-Cola चेरी, Coca-Cola Zero, coca-cola वैनिला, और special संस्करण with lemon, lime or कॉफी.
Based on Interbrand 's best global ब्रांड 2011, Coca-Cola थी the संसार 's most मूल्यवान ब्रांड.
An ombudsman is an आधिकारिक, usually appointed by the government or by parliament लकिन with a significant degree of स्वतंत्रता, जो is चार्ज with representing the रूचि of the public by investigating और संबोधित complaints of maladministration or उल्लंघन of अधिकारों.
In some देशों an इंस्पेक्टर सामान्य, नागरिक एडवोकेट or अन्य आधिकारिक may have कर्तव्य समान to those of a national ombudsman, और may also be नियुक्त by the विधानमंडल.
नीचे the नेशनल स्तर an ombudsman may be नियुक्त by a state, लोकल or नगरपालिका government, and unofficial ombudsmen may be appointed by, or भी work लिये, a corporation ऐसे as a utility प्रदायक or a समाचारपत्र, लिये an ngo, or लिये a professional नियामक body.
whether नियुक्त by the विधानमंडल, the executive, or an organization ( or, less अक्सर, निर्वाचित by the constituency कि he or she serves ), the typical कर्तव्य of an ombudsman हैं to investigate शिकायत and attempt to निराकरण उन्हें, प्रायः through सुझाव ( बाइंडिंग or नहीं ) or मध्यस्थता.
ombudsmen sometimes भी उद्देश्य to identify systemic मुद्दे अग्रणी to poor service or breaches of people 's rights.
at the नेशनल level, सबसे ombudsmen have a चौड़ी जनादेश to deal with the entire पब्लिक सेक्टर, और sometimes also elements of the private sector ( लिये उदाहरण, contracted service providers ).
In कुछ मामले, there is a more restricted जनादेश, for example साथ particular सेक्टर of society.
More हाल developments have शामिल the creation of specialised Children 's ombudsman और सूचना Commissioner एजेंसियों.
in some jurisdictions an ombudsman चार्ज साथ the handling of चिंताएं about नेशनल सरकारी is अधिक formally referred to as the `` Parliamentary कमिश्नर '' ( e.g. the United Kingdom संसदीय Commissioner लिये प्रशासन, and the Western ऑस्ट्रेलियाई राज्य ombudsman ).
In many देशों जहाँ the ombudsman 's remit extends परे dealing साथ कथित maladministration to promoting और protecting इंसान अधिकारों, the ombudsman is recognised as the national इंसान अधिकारों संस्था.
the post of ombudsman था by the समाप्त of the 20th century महरूम instituted by सबसे governments and by कुछ intergovernmental organizations such as the European Union.
Making a complaint to an ombudsman is प्रायः free of charge.
चिह्न at georgetown University वॉशिंगटन dc
चिह्न in बांजुल, the Gambia
पतझड़ in नई England, watercolor, Maurice prendergast.
ca. 1910–1913
पतन foliage in the कस्बा of स्टो, Vermont
New इंग्लैण्ड is a प्रदेश in the northeastern कोने of the संयुक्त States consisting of the छह राज्य of maine, नई हैम्पशायर, वर्मांट, मैसाचुसेट्स, rhode Island, और कनेक्टिकट.
नई इंग्लैण्ड is bordered by नई यॉर्क राज्य to the southwest, Quebec to the northwest, और नई Brunswick and the अटलांटिक समंदर to the ईस्ट.
in one of the earliest अंग्रेज़ी settlements in North अमेरिका, Pilgrims इससे इंग्लैण्ड first settled in नई इंग्लैण्ड in 1620, to रूप plymouth Colony.
टेन years बाद, the Puritans settled north of plymouth Colony in बोस्टन, thus forming मैसाचुसेट्स Bay उपनिवेश.
Over the next 130 years, New England लड़ा in चार फ्रेंच और भारतीय Wars, जबतक the अंग्रेजों defeated the फ्रेंच और उनके देशी allies in North अमेरिका.
in the late 18th सदी, the नई इंग्लैण्ड colonies initiated the प्रतिरोध to the British पार्लियामेंट 's efforts to impose नई taxes बगैर the consent of the colonists.
the Boston चाय पार्टी was a विरोध to which Great ब्रिटेन responded साथ a श्रेणी of punitive कानून stripping मैसाचुसेट्स of self-government, जिससे were termed the `` Intolerable Acts `` by the colonists.
The confrontation led to खोलें warfare in 1775, the expulsion of the अंग्रेजों authorities from नई इंग्लैण्ड in spring 1776, और the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता in जुलाई 1776.
कुछ of the पहला आंदोलनों of अमरीकी literature, philosophy, and education originated in नई England.
the region played a prominent भूमिका in the गति to abolish गुलामी, और was the पहला प्रदेश of the संयुक्त राज्य to be रूपांतरित by the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति.
आज, नई England is a प्रमुख संसार center of शिक्षा, ऊँची प्रौद्योगिकी, बीमे, and आयुर्विज्ञान.
बोस्टन is इसके सांस्कृतिक, वित्तीय, शैक्षणिक, चिकित्सा और transportation बीच.
प्रत्येक state is principally subdivided into small incorporated municipalities ज्ञात as नई England कस्बों, जिससे हैं प्रायः governed by town बैठक.
the तभी unincorporated territory in नई इंग्लैण्ड exists in the sparse, उत्तरी regions of वर्मांट, New हैम्पशायर, और maine.
चूंकि 1970, voters have more often समर्थित liberal candidates at the राज्य and federal स्तर than those of any अन्य region in the संयुक्त राज्य.
नई इंग्लैण्ड is the only एक of the संयुक्त राज्य Census Bureau 's नौ क्षेत्रीय divisions जिनकी name करता नहीं derive इससे इसके भूगोल, और it is the only multi-state region साथ clear, सतत सीमाएँ.
it maintains a दमदार भाव of cultural identity set apart इससे the बाकी of the country, हालांकि the शर्तें of this identity are प्रायः लडे, combining puritanism साथ liberalism, agrarian जीवन with उद्योग, and isolation साथ आव्रजन.
आपात !
is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न श्रेणी that combines the medical drama and action-adventure genres.
It थी उत्पादित by Mark VII सीमित and वितरित by सार्वभौमिक Studios.
it debuted as a midseason replacement on जनवरी 15, 1972, on एनबीसी, replacing the two short-lived श्रेणी the Partners और the Good जीवन, और ran जबतक सितंबर 3, 1977, with छह अतिरिक्त two-hour television films दौरान the following दो सालो.
आपात !
was created and produced by Jack Webb और रॉबर्ट A. cinader, दोनो of जिसको were also responsible for the पुलिस dramas adam-12 और Dragnet.
the पूर्वी Time मण्डल ( ET ) encompasses 17 u.S. राज्य in the eastern भाग of the संलग्न संयुक्त राज्य, parts of कनाडा और three countries in South America.
स्थान that उपयोग पूर्वी मानक समय ( est ) जब observing मानक time ( autumn/winter ) हैं 5 hours पीछे Coordinated सार्वभौमिक समय ( ).
Eastern daylight Time ( edt ), जब observing daylight saving समय ( spring/summer ) is 4 घंटों पीछे Coordinated सार्वभौमिक समय ( ).
in the northern भाग of the समय zone, दौरान the दूसरी संडे in कूच, at 2:00 a.m. est, clocks हैं उन्नत to 3:00 a.m. EDT leaving a एक घंटा `` gap. ''
दौरान the first संडे in नवम्बर, at 2:00 a.m. EDT, clocks are स्थानांतरित back to 1:00 a.m. EST, यूँ `` duplicating '' एक hour.
दक्षिणी भाग of the मण्डल ( पनामा और the Caribbean ) do नहीं observe daylight saving.
मानक रूप of the periodic table.
The colors represent अलग categories of तत्व explained नीचे.
the periodic तालिका is a tabular प्रदर्शक of the chemical elements, व्यवस्थित on the आधार of उनके परमाणु संख्याएँ, electron configurations, और पुनरावर्ती रासायनिक properties.
Elements हैं प्रस्तुत in order of increasing atomic क्रमांक ( number of protons ).
the मानक form of तालिका comprises an 18 × 7 ग्रिड or main body of elements, positioned above a छोटी double पंक्ति of elements.
the table can also be deconstructed into चार rectangular ब्लॉक : the s-block to the बाएँ, the p-block to the सही, the d-block in the middle, and the f-block नीचे कि.
the पंक्ति of the तालिका are called अवधि ; the कालम of the s-, d-, और p-blocks हैं called समूह, साथ कुछ of ये having names ऐसे as the हैलोजन्स or the प्रतिष्ठित गैसों.
चूंकि, by परिभाषा, a आवधिक तालिका incorporates पुनरावर्ती रुझान, any such table can be used to derive संबंध between the गुण of the elements और भविष्यवाणी the गुण of नई, yet to be discovered or synthesized, तत्व.
as a result, a periodic table—whether in the मानक रूप or some other variant—provides a उपयोगी framework for analyzing रासायनिक बर्ताव, और ऐसे tables हैं widely प्रयुक्त in chemistry and अन्य sciences.
Although precursors exist, Dmitri Mendeleev is generally credited साथ the publication, in 1869, of the पहला widely पहचाना आवधिक तालिका.
he developed his तालिका to illustrate आवधिक trends in the गुण of the then-known तत्व.
Mendeleev also predicted कुछ properties of then-unknown elements कि होता be अपेक्षित to fill gaps in इस तालिका.
सबसे of his पूर्वानुमान यहूद proved सही जब the तत्व in question were subsequently खोजा.
mendeleev 's आवधिक table रै चूंकि been expanded और परिष्कृत with the डिस्कवरी or संश्लेषण of further नई elements और the development of नई सैद्धांतिक models to explain रासायनिक बर्ताव.
सब elements इससे परमाणु संख्याएँ 1 ( हाइड्रोजन ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have महरूम discovered or synthesized.
the तत्व इससे 1 to 98 ( californium ) have महरूम मिला to मौजूद naturally, हालांकि some are found only in ट्रेस amounts and यहूद initially खोजा by संश्लेषण in laboratories.
The तत्व बाद 98 have only been synthesized in laboratories.
उत्पादन of तत्व beyond ununoctium is being pursued, साथ the सवाल of how the आवधिक तालिका may need to be परिवर्धित to accommodate any ऐसे परिवर्धन होने a पदार्थ of जारी बहस.
numerous सिंथेटिक radionuclides of naturally occurring elements have भी महरूम उत्पादित in laboratories.
minecraft is a सैंडबॉक्स इंडी खेल originally created by स्वीडिश प्रोग्रामर markus `` पायदान '' persson और बाद विकसित and प्रकाशित by mojang.
It was publicly released लिये the PC on May 17, 2009, as a developmental अल्फा version और, after gradual updates, was प्रकाशित as a full release संस्करण on November 18, 2011.
a संस्करण for एंड्रॉइड थी released a माह earlier on October 7, और an आईओएस version थी released on November 17, 2011.
on may 9, 2012, the game थी released on Xbox 360 as an एक्सबॉक्स सजीव आर्केड खेल, co-developed by 4j studios.
All versions of Minecraft प्राप्त आवधिक अद्यतन.
the creative and भवन पहलुओं of Minecraft allow players to निर्माण constructions out of textured घन in a 3D procedurally generated world.
अन्य activities in the खेल शामिल खोजी, gathering संसाधन, crafting and combat.
Gameplay in इसके वाणिज्यिक रिलीज has दो प्रिंसिपल modes : survival, जिससे requires players to acquire संसाधन और maintain their स्वास्थ्य and भूख ; और creative, जहाँ खिलाड़ी have an unlimited supply of resources, the क्षमता to fly, and no health or hunger.
A तीसरा gameplay विधि named hardcore is the same as अस्तित्व, differing only in परेशानी ; it is नियत to hardest setting और respawning is disabled, forcing खिलाड़ी to delete उनके संसार upon death.
minecraft received पाँच awards from the 2011 Game Developers सम्मेलन : it थी awarded the नवीनता Award, बेहतरीन downloadable खेल पुरस्कार, और the Best Debut Game पुरस्कार इससे the खेल Developers चुनाव पुरस्कार ; and the दर्शक Award, as well as the Seumas mcnally ग्रैंड Prize, from the स्वतंत्र खेल पर्व in 2011.
In 2012, minecraft was awarded a Golden Joystick Award in the श्रेणी बेहतरीन Downloadable खेल.
as of अप्रैल 8, 2013, the खेल has बेची over 10 लाख नक़ल on pc and as of January 22, 2013, over 20 million नक़ल across सब प्लेटफ़ॉर्म.
the Dark Knight is a 2008 british-american superhero फिल्मी निर्देशित, उत्पादित, and co-written by क्रिस्टोफर नोलन.
आधारित on the dc Comics character बैटमैन, the फिल्मी is the second भाग of नोलन 's Batman फिल्मी series and a sequel to 2005 's बैटमैन begins.
ईसाई Bale reprises the सीसे role of ब्रूस wayne/batman, with a returning डाल of माइकल Caine as अल्फ्रेड pennyworth, गेरी oldman as जेम्स Gordon and मॉर्गन फ्रीमैन as लुसियस फॉक्स.
The film introduces the अक्षर of Harvey डेंट ( Aaron eckhart ), गोथम 's newly निर्वाचित District Attorney और the consort of Bruce वेन 's childhood dost रेचल dawes ( मैगी Gyllenhaal ), जो joins बैटमैन और the police in combating the नई उठती threat of a दण्ड मास्टरमाइंड कॉलिंग himself `` The जोकर `` ( Heath Ledger ).
Nolan 's inspiration लिये the film थी the जोकर 's comic किताब डेब्यू in 1940, the 1988 graphic novel, and the 1996 श्रेणी, जिससे retold two-face 's origin.
the nickname `` the Dark Knight '' थी पहला applied to बैटमैन in Batman no. 1 ( 1940 ), in a स्टोरी written by विधेयक उंगली.
the Dark Knight थी फिल्माया primarily in शिकागो, as खूब as in अनेक अन्य locations in the United States, the United किंगडम, और हांग Kong.
नोलन used an IMAX कैमरा to फिल्मी कुछ sequences, सहित the जोकर 's पहला रूप in the फिल्मी.
on January 22, 2008, some महीने after he था समाप्त फिल्मांकन on the Dark Knight और छह months before the film 's रिलीज, झाड़ Ledger died इससे a विषाक्त संयोजन of नुस्खा drugs, अग्रणी to intense attention इससे the दबायें and movie-going पब्लिक.
warner Bros. था initially निर्मित a viral विपणन campaign लिये the अंधेरा Knight, developing promotional websites and trailers highlighting screen गोलियाँ of लेजर as the Joker, लकिन after लेजर 's death, the स्टुडियो refocused its promotional अभियान.
the अंधेरा Knight थी released on July 16, 2008 in Australia, on July 18, 2008 in उत्तर अमेरिका, and on July 24, 2008 in the संयुक्त किंगडम.
माना एक of the बेहतरीन films of the 2000s और एक of the बेहतरीन सुपरहीरो films कभी बना, the फिल्मी प्राप्त अत्यधिक धनात्मक reviews and नियत numerous records दौरान इसके theatrical चलाएं.
साथ over $ 1 अरब in आय worldwide, it is the 14th-highest-grossing film of सब time, unadjusted for महंगाई.
the film received आठ अकादमी पुरस्कार nominations ; it जीती the award लिये बेहतरीन Sound Editing और लेजर was मरणोपरांत awarded बेहतरीन Supporting कर्ता.
the अंधेरा नाईट Rises, the फाइनल भाग of the trilogy, थी released on July 20, 2012.
the समयरेखा of रेडियो lists भीतर the history of radio, the प्रौद्योगिकी और कार्यक्रम that produced instruments कि उपयोग रेडियो लहरें और क्रियाएँ that people undertook.
बाद, the इतिहास is dominated by प्रोग्रामिंग और सामग्री, which is closer to सामान्य history.
The Sydney ओपेरा हाउस is a multi-venue performing कला centre in नई दक्षिण वेल्स, Australia.
it थी conceived and largely built by डैनिश वास्तु jørn Utzon, opening in 1973 बाद a long gestation that began साथ उसके competition-winning design in 1957.
Joseph काहिल 's New दक्षिण वेल्स Government gave the go-ahead लिये work to शुरू in 1958.
The सरकारी 's bold निर्णय to चुनें utzon 's डिज़ाइन is प्रायः overshadowed by the scandal that followed.
it is on Bennelong पाइंट in सिडनी harbour, बंद to the Sydney harbour Bridge.
it sits at the northeastern टिप of the सिडनी सेंट्रल कारोबार ज़िला ( the सीबीडी ), घिरी on तीन पहलू by the harbour ( सिडनी कोव और फार्म Cove ) और inland by the royal botanic gardens.
Contrary to its नाम, it houses अनेक प्रदर्शन venues.
it is among the busiest performing arts centres in the world, hosting over 1,500 प्रदर्शन प्रत्येक year attended by some 1.2 million लोगों.
it provides a स्थान for अनेक performing-arts कंपनियाँ, including the चार कुंजी निवासी कंपनियाँ ओपेरा ऑस्ट्रेलिया, the Australian बैले, the Sydney थिएटर Company and the Sydney सिंफनी ऑर्केस्ट्रा, and presents a wide range of productions on इसके अपना account.
It is भी one of the most popular आगंतुक आकर्षण in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, साथ more than सात million people visiting प्रत्येक साल, 300,000 of whom take a guided tour.
it is administered by the सिडनी ओपेरा हाउस Trust, under the नई दक्षिण Wales Ministry of the Arts.
On 28 जून 2007, it was made a UNESCO World विरासत साईट.
it is one of the 20th century 's सबसे distinctive buildings और एक of the most famous performing arts केंद्रों in the संसार.
a graph of body mass अनुक्रमणिका as a फलन of देह द्रव्यमान and body height is shown above.
the dashed lines represent subdivisions within a प्रमुख class.
लिये उदाहरण the `` Underweight '' वर्गीकरण is further विभाजित into `` कठोर '', `` मॉडरेट '', and `` mild '' subclasses.
The देह mass अनुक्रमणिका ( बीएमआई ), or quetelet index, is a माप लिये इंसान देह आकार आधारित on an individual 's weight और ऊँचाई.
it was devised between 1830 and 1850 by the Belgian polymath Adolphe Quetelet दौरान the कोर्स of developing `` सोशल भौतिकी ''.
Body द्रव्यमान index is पारिभाषित as the individual 's देह mass विभाजित by the square of उनके ऊँचाई.
The formulae universally प्रयुक्त in medicine produce a ईकाई of माप of kg/m2.
BMI can भी be determined using a बीएमआई chart, जिससे प्रदर्शक BMI as a function of weight ( horizontal अक्ष ) and ऊँचाई ( लंबवत अक्ष ) using रुपरेखा lines लिये अलग मान of BMI or colors लिये अलग बीएमआई श्रेणी.
† the फ़ैक्टर लिये UK/US units is अधिक precisely 703.06957964, लकिन that स्तर of परिशुद्धता is नहीं meaningful लिये इस गणना.
To कार्य इससे stone और pounds पहला गुणा the स्टोन by 14 तब add the पाउंड to give the पूरे द्रव्यमान in pounds ; to work from feet और इंच पहला multiply the feet by 12 तब add the inches to दे the पूरे ऊँचाई in इंच.
थामस paine ( January 29, 1737 ( ns फ़रवरी 9, 1737 ) – जून 8, 1809 ) थी an english-american राजनैतिक activist, author, राजनैतिक theorist और क्रांतिकारी.
as the लेखक of दो highly influential pamphlets at the प्रारंभ of the अमरीकी क्रान्ति, he प्रेरित the देशप्रेमी in 1776 to declare स्वतंत्रता इससे ब्रिटेन.
उसके ideas reflected आत्मज्ञान era बयानबाजी of transnational इंसान अधिकारों.
he रै been पुकारा `` a corsetmaker by व्यापार, a journalist by व्यवसायिक, और a propagandist by inclination. ''
born in thetford, इंग्लैण्ड, in the काउंटी of नॉर्फ़ोक, paine emigrated to the अंग्रेजों American colonies in 1774 with the सहायता of बेंजामिन Franklin and he arrived in time to participate in the American क्रान्ति.
उसके principal योगदान were the powerful, widely पढ़ा pamphlet Common भाव ( 1776 ), the all-time best-selling अमरीकी किताब that advocated औपनिवेशिक अमेरिका 's independence from the किंगडम of Great Britain, और The अमरीकी संकट ( 1776–83 ), a pro-revolutionary pamphlet श्रेणी.
आम भाव थी so influential that जॉन Adams कहा, `` बगैर the कलम of the लेखक of आम भाव, the sword of वॉशिंगटन होता have been उठाया in vain.”
paine lived in फ़्रांस लिये most of the 1790s, बनने deeply involved in the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति.
He लिखा the अधिकारों of Man ( 1791 ), in भाग a defence of the फ्रेंच Revolution against its critics.
His attacks on अंग्रेजों writer Edmund Burke led to a विचारण and conviction in absentia in 1792 for the अपराधों of seditious मानहानि.
in 1792, despite नहीं होने समर्थ to बोलो फ्रेंच, he was निर्वाचित to the फ्रेंच नेशनल सम्मेलन.
the Girondists regarded उसे as an ally.
Consequently, the Montagnards, especially Robespierre, regarded him as an दुश्मन.
in दिसम्बर 1793, he थी arrested and imprisoned in Paris, then released in 1794.
he became notorious क्युकी of The आयु of कारण ( 1793–94 ), उसके किताब that अधिवक्ताओं देववाद, promotes कारण और freethinking, और argues विरूद्ध institutionalized धर्म in सामान्य और ईसाई doctrine in particular.
He भी लिखा the pamphlet कृषिक इंसाफ ( 1795 ), discussing the origins of प्रॉपर्टी, और introduced the अवधारणा of a गारंटी minimum आय.
In 1802, he लौटे to अमेरिका जहाँ he died on June 8, 1809.
Only छह people attended his अंत्येष्टि as he था been ostracized लिये his उपहास of Christianity.
Clinical trials are सेट of परीक्षण in medical research और ड्रग विकास that generate सुरक्षा और efficacy data ( or अधिक specifically, सूचना about प्रतिकूल drug reactions and प्रतिकूल effects of अन्य उपचार ) लिये स्वास्थ्य interventions ( e.g., drugs, diagnostics, डिवाइस, चिकित्सा प्रोटोकॉल ).
They हैं conducted तभी बाद संतोषजनक सूचना रै महरूम gathered on the विशेषता of the गैर नैदानिक सुरक्षा, और health authority/ethics कमेटी approval is granted in the country जहाँ स्वीकृति of the drug or यंत्र is sought.
previously, अनेक उभरते देशों did नहीं require लोकल ट्रायल for उत्पाद approvals.
अभी, हालांकि उभरते countries स्टिल accept आंकड़ा from u.s./europe, वे भी आवश्यकता कुछ लोकल trials.
depending on the type of product and the stage of its विकास, जांचकर्ताओं initially enroll volunteers and/or मरीजों into छोटी पायलट studies, और subsequently conduct larger scale studies in मरीजों that प्रायः compare the new product साथ others already स्वीकृत for the affliction of ब्याज.
as धनात्मक सुरक्षा और efficacy आंकड़ा हैं gathered, the number of patients is typically increased.
Clinical ट्रायल can vary in size, and can involve a single शोध एंटिटी in one देश or अनेक such entities in multiple देशों.
a full series of ट्रायल may incur sizable costs, and the burden of paying लिये सब the जरुरी लोगों और सेवाएं is प्रायः borne by the प्रायोजक, which may be a governmental संगठन or a pharmaceutical, biotechnology or चिकित्सा यंत्र कम्पनी.
When the विविधता of required support भूमिकाएँ exceeds the संसाधन of the प्रायोजक, a नैदानिक trial is managed by an outsourced संगी, ऐसे as a अनुबंध research organization or a clinical trials unit in the अकादमिक सेक्टर.
The Green खाड़ी Packers हैं an अमरीकी football team based in Green खाड़ी, विस्कॉन्सिन.
They हैं members of the उत्तर प्रभाग of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( nfc ) in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ).
Green खाड़ी is the third-oldest मताधिकार in the एनएफएल, having महरूम व्यवस्थित और playing in 1919.
The पैकर्स हैं the only non-profit, community-owned major league पेशेवर खेल team in the संयुक्त States.
the पैकर्स are the पिछला vestige of `` छोटी कस्बा टीमों '' कि यहूद एकबार आम in the एनएफएल दौरान the 1920s और 1930s.
संस्थापित in 1919 by अर्ल `` घुंघराले '' Lambeau ( hence the name lambeau Field on जिससे the team plays ) और George व्हिटनी calhoun, the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स can ट्रेस their lineage to other semi-professional टीमों in Green खाड़ी dating back to 1896.
in 1919 और 1920 the पैकर्स competed as a semi-professional football टोली विरूद्ध क्लब इससे around विस्कॉन्सिन and the मिडवेस्ट.
They joined the अमरीकी Professional फ़ुटबॉल Association ( APFA ) in 1921, the forerunner to what is ज्ञात आज as the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League ( एनएफएल ).
Although ग्रीन खाड़ी is the पिछला NFL `` small town '' टोली, its local fan base और media extends into आसपास Milwaukee ; the team also निभाई selected घर खेल वहीँ between 1933 और 1994.
the Green खाड़ी Packers have won 13 लीग championships ( अधिक than कोई अन्य टोली in the NFL ), including nine NFL championships prior to the सुपर Bowl era और four सुपर कटोरी victories —in 1967 ( सुपर Bowl i ), 1968 ( सुपर Bowl ii ), 1997 ( Super Bowl xxxi ) and 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ).
the पैकर्स have long-standing, कड़वा rivalries with उनके NFC North ( formerly the NFC सेंट्रल ) प्रतिद्वंद्वियों, the शिकागो bears, Minnesota Vikings and the डेट्रॉयट Lions.
the bears-packers फंसने is एक of the oldest rivalries in NFL history, dating वापस to 1921.
इथेनॉल fuel is इथेनॉल ( ethyl दारू ), the same type of alcohol मिला in alcoholic पेय.
It is most प्रायः used as a motor fuel, मुख्यतः as a biofuel additive for गैसोलीन.
World ethanol production लिये transport ईंधन tripled between 2000 and 2007 इससे 17 अरब to अधिक than 52 अरब liters.
इससे 2007 to 2008, the share of ethanol in वैश्विक गैसोलीन type fuel use increased from 3.7 % to 5.4 %.
in 2011 worldwide इथेनॉल ईंधन उत्पादन पहुँचे 22.36 अरब u.S. द्रव gallons ( bg ) ( 84.6 अरब liters ), साथ the संयुक्त States as the शीर्ष निर्माता with 13.9 bg ( 52.6 अरब liters ), accounting लिये 62.2 % of global उत्पादन, followed by ब्राज़ील with 5.6 bg ( 21.1 अरब liters ).
Ethanol ईंधन has a `` गैसोलीन gallon equivalency `` ( GGE ) value of, जिससे अर्थात् 1.5 गैलन of ethanol produce the उर्जा of एक गैलन of गैसोलीन.
Ethanol fuel is widely प्रयुक्त in ब्राज़ील और in the संयुक्त States, and साथ both देशों were जिम्मेदार लिये 87.1 % of the संसार 's ethanol ईंधन उत्पादन in 2011.
सबसे cars on the road today in the U.S. can run on मिश्रणों of up to 10 % इथेनॉल, और इथेनॉल represented 10 % of the u.S. गैसोलीन fuel supply derived from domestic स्त्रोत in 2011.
चूंकि 1976 the Brazilian सरकारी has बना it अनिवार्य to मिश्रण ethanol with गैसोलीन, and चूंकि 2007 the legal मिश्रण is around 25 % इथेनॉल और 75 % गैसोलीन ( E25 ).
By December 2011 ब्राज़ील था a fleet of 14.8 million flex-fuel automobiles and light ट्रक and 1.5 लाख flex-fuel मोटरसाइकिल that regularly use neat ethanol ईंधन ( known as e100 ).
bioethanol is a रूप of renewable उर्जा that can be produced from agricultural feedstocks.
It can be बना इससे very common फसलों ऐसे as sugar cane, potato, manioc and corn.
There रै महरूम considerable बहस about how उपयोगी bioethanol will be in replacing गैसोलीन.
चिंताएं about its उत्पादन and use relate to increased food prices due to the large राशि of arable जमीन required लिये फसलों, as खूब as the उर्जा and pollution संतुलन of the पूरे साईकिल of ethanol उत्पादन, विशेषकर from corn.
Recent developments साथ cellulosic इथेनॉल उत्पादन and commercialization may allay some of these चिंताएं.
cellulosic इथेनॉल offers promise because cellulose मछली, a major and universal घटक in plant cells दीवारें, can be प्रयुक्त to उपज इथेनॉल.
according to the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Energy एजेंसी, cellulosic इथेनॉल could allow इथेनॉल fuels to play a much bigger भूमिका in the भविष्य than previously thought.
Saab 9-3 SportCombi biopower.
The second e85 flexifuel model introduced by Saab in the Swedish मार्केट.
a प्लैक commemorating the स्थान of the Sarajevo हत्या and steps of Gavrilo Princip ( image लिया in 1987, पहले कदम यहूद removed in 1992 और प्लैक बदला from Cyrillic to लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट )
A प्लैक commemorating the स्थान of the Sarajevo हत्या ( image लिया in 2009 )
On 28 जून 1914, archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया, वारिस presumptive to the austro-hungarian सिंहासन, और उसके wife, Sophie, Duchess of hohenberg, यहूद शॉट मुर्दे in साराजेवो, by Gavrilo princip, एक of a समूह of six बोस्नियाई serb हत्यारे coordinated by डेनियल Ilić.
The राजनैतिक objective of the हत्या थी to break बंद Austria-Hungary 's south-slav प्रांतों so वे could be संयुक्त into a वृहद Serbia or a यूगोस्लाविया.
the assassins ' motives यहूद सतत साथ the गति कि later became known as यंग Bosnia.
Serbian सैन्य अधिकारियों stood पीछे the attack.
At the शीर्ष of these सर्बियाई सैन्य षड्यंत्रकारियों थी Chief of सर्बियाई Military प्रज्ञा Dragutin dimitrijević, his righthand man Major Vojislav Tankosić, and masterspy rade Malobabić.
प्रमुख tankosić armed the हत्यारे साथ बम and pistols and प्रशिक्षित them.
The हत्यारे यहूद given अभिगम to the same clandestine टनल of safe-houses and एजेंटों कि Rade malobabić प्रयुक्त लिये the घुसपैठ of हथियार और operatives into austria-hungary.
The हत्यारे, the key सदस्यों of the clandestine टनल, और the key सर्बियाई सैन्य षड्यंत्रकारियों जो यहूद still जिंदा were गिरफ्तार, आजमाया, convicted और punished.
those जो यहूद arrested in बोस्निया were tried in Sarajevo in अक्तूबर 1914.
The अन्य conspirators were गिरफ्तार and tried before a Serbian कंगारू court on the French-controlled salonika Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated false आरोप ; सर्बिया चलाया तीन of the शीर्ष सैन्य षड्यंत्रकारियों.
much of कया is ज्ञात परिचय the assassinations आता from ये दो ट्रायल and related रिकॉर्ड.
कार्यभार of जिम्मेदारी लिये the bombing and हत्याएं of 28 June is अत्यधिक controversial क्युकी the आक्रमण led to the outbreak of संसार War i एक month later.
Renée कैथलीन zellweger ( born अप्रैल 25, 1969 ) is an American अभिनेत्री और producer.
zellweger first gained widespread attention लिये her भूमिका in the फिल्मी जेरी मैग्वायर ( 1996 ), and subsequently received two nominations लिये the Academy पुरस्कार लिये Best अभिनेत्री लिये her roles as Bridget जोन्स in the comedy ब्रिजेट जोन्स 's डायरी ( 2001 ), and as roxie हार्ट in the musical शिकागो ( 2002 ).
वो जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Supporting अभिनेत्री लिये उसके performance in the drama ठंडा Mountain ( 2003 ).
She रै जीती an अकादमी पुरस्कार, three सुनहरी Globe Awards, तीन Screen अभिनेताओं गिल्ड पुरस्कार, और a bafta Award ; थी named hasty खीर 's स्त्री of the साल in 2009 ; और established herself as एक of the highest-paid हॉलीवुड अभिनेत्रियों as of 2007.
The ossicles ( भी पुकारा auditory ossicles ) are the three smallest हड्डियों in the human body, the malleus, the incus and the stapes.
They are contained भीतर the मध्य कान स्पेस and serve to transmit ध्वनि इससे the एयर to the fluid-filled labyrinth ( cochlea ).
The अनुपस्थिति of the auditory ossicles होता constitute a moderate-to-severe hearing loss.
the पद `` ossicles '' वस्तुतः अर्थात् `` tiny bones '' and commonly refers to the auditory ossicles, हालांकि the term may refer to कोई small bone throughout the body.
the New Covenant ( Hebrew • • — यूनानी • • diatheke kaine ) is a biblical निर्वचन originally निकला इससे a phrase in the Book of यिर्मयाह, in the Hebrew शास्त्रों.
it is often thought of as an eschatological मुक्तिदाता Age or world to come and is सम्बन्धित to the biblical concept of the किंगडम of God.
generally, ईसाइयों believe कि the नई Covenant थी instituted at the Last Supper as भाग of the eucharist, जिससे in the इन्जील of John includes the नई commandment.
वहीँ हैं अनेक ईसाई eschatologies that further define the नई Covenant, as an उदाहरण an उदघाटन eschatology defines और describes the New वचन as an जारी relationship between ईसाई ईमानवालों और God कि will be in full फलीभूत बाद the दूसरी coming of Christ ; that is, it होगा नहीं तभी be in full फलीभूत in believing दिल, लकिन in the भविष्य बाह्य संसार as well.
the connection between the रक्त of मसीह और the New वचन is seen in सबसे आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी translations of the New वसीयत साथ the saying : `` this कप कि is poured आउट लिये you is the new वचन in my रक्त ''.
Christians believe कि यीशु is the मध्यस्थ of the New वचन, और that the रक्त of मसीह शेड at उसके crucifixion is the जरूरी रक्त of the covenant.
as with सब covenants between परमेश्वर और man described in the बाइबल, the नई वचन is माना `` a बंध in रक्त sovereignly administered by परमेश्वर. ''
it रै been theorized कि the New वचन is the Law of मसीह as बोला दौरान his Sermon on the Mount.
the following सूची of लोगों pardoned or granted दया by the अध्यक्ष of the United States documents the सबसे prominent मामले of प्रत्येक presidency.
as granted by the संविधान ( Article II, Section 2, Clause 1 ), राष्ट्रपतियों have the power to ग्रान्ट दया in एक or अधिक of the following तरीके : the क्षमता to ग्रान्ट a full pardon, to commute a वाक्य, or to rescind a ठीक.
u.S. Presidents have no power to grant दया लिये अपराधों prosecuted under राज्य विधि.
as to the difference between a pardon and a commutation:
a pardon is an कार्यपालिका अनुक्रम vacating a conviction.
a commutation is the शमन of the वाक्य of किसी फिलहाल serving a sentence लिये a अपराधों pursuant to a conviction, without vacating the conviction itself.
लगभग 20,000 pardons और clemencies were जारी by u.S. presidents in the 20th century alone.
the records of अधिनियमों of दया were public जबतक 1934.
in 1981 the दफ्तर of the Pardon attorney was निर्मित और records इससे अध्यक्ष H. W. बुश आगे हैं now सूचीबद्ध.
This सूची includes pardons और commutations.
tampa ( ) is a नगर in the U.S. state of Florida.
it serves as the county सीट लिये Hillsborough काउंटी और is स्तिथ on the वेस्ट coast of Florida, on tampa Bay near the Gulf of Mexico.
the जनसांख्यिकी of Tampa in 2011 थी 346,037.
The वर्तमान location of tampa थी एकबार inhabited by स्वदेशी peoples of the सुरक्षा हार्बर culture, सबसे notably the tocobaga and the pohoy, जो जिया साथ the shores of Tampa Bay.
it थी briefly explored by स्पेनी explorers in the जल्दी 16th century, लकिन there यहूद no permanent अमरीकी or यूरोपीय settlements भीतर आज 's नगर हद until after the संयुक्त राज्य था acquired फ्लोरिडा इससे स्पेन in 1819.
in 1824, the United राज्य Army स्थापित a frontier चौकी called Fort Brooke at the मुँह of the hillsborough नदी, निकट the साईट of today 's tampa सम्मेलन बीच.
The first civilian निवासियों were pioneers who settled near the फोर्ट for सुरक्षा इससे the आसपास seminole जनसांख्यिकी.
the town grew धीरे until the 1880s, जब रेलरोड कड़ी, the डिस्कवरी of फास्फेट, और the arrival of the cigar उद्योग jump-started Tampa 's विकास और helped it to grow into an महत्वपूर्ण नगर by the जल्दी 1900s.
आज, tampa is a part of the महानगर क्षेत्रफल सबसे commonly referred to as the tampa खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल.
लिये u.S. Census उद्देश्य, Tampa is भाग of the Tampa-St. petersburg-clearwater, फ्लोरिडा महानगर सांख्यिकीय Area.
The four-county area is composed of roughly 2.7 million निवासियों, making it the दूसरी largest metropolitan सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल ( MSA ) in the राज्य, और the चौथी largest in the southeastern संयुक्त राज्य, पीछे मियामी, वॉशिंगटन, d.C., और Atlanta.
the वृहद tampa Bay क्षेत्रफल रै just over 4 लाख residents और generally includes the Tampa और Sarasota मैट्रो areas.
the tampa खाड़ी Partnership और U.S. Census आंकड़ा showed an average सालाना विकास of 2.47 प्रतिशत, or a gain of लगभग 97,000 निवासियों प्रति year.
between 2000 और 2006, the वृहद tampa खाड़ी Market अनुभवी a combined growth रेट of 14.8 percent, growing from 3.4 लाख to 3.9 million और hitting the 4 लाख लोगों mark on अप्रैल 1, 2007.
a 2012 अनुमान shows the tampa खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल population to have 4,310,524 लोगों and a 2017 प्रक्षेप of 4,536,854 लोगों.
tampa रै a क्रमांक of खेल teams, ऐसे as the tampa Bay buccaneers of the नेशनल Football League, the Tampa खाड़ी Lightning of the नेशनल Hockey लीग, और the Tampa खाड़ी तूफ़ान of the एरिना Football League.
The tampa Bay किरणें in Major लीग Baseball और the tampa खाड़ी Rowdies of the उत्तर अमरीकी सॉकर League play उनके घर खेल in neighboring st. Petersburg, फ्लोरिडा.
In 2008, tampa was क्रमित as the 5th बेहतरीन outdoor city by Forbes.
a 2004 सर्वेक्षण by the nyu newspaper वॉशिंगटन वर्गाकार News क्रमित Tampa as a शीर्ष city लिये `` twenty-somethings. ''
tampa is now ranked as a `` Gamma '' संसार नगर by Loughborough विश्वविद्यालयों.
according to Loughborough, tampa ranks alongside other संसार शहरों ऐसे as फीनिक्स, सेंटो Domingo, and ओसाका.
in हाल years Tampa has देखी a notable upsurge in high-market माँग इससे उपभोक्ता, signaling अधिक माल concentrated in the क्षेत्रफल.
Tampa hosted the 2012 Republican National सम्मेलन.
the शेवरलेट Cavalier was a कॉम्पैक्ट ऑटोमोबाइल produced इससे 1982 to 2005 by General मोटर्स.
Built on the company 's J मंच, the Cavalier उत्पादित the उच्चतम बिक्री in 1984.
AT & t Mobility LLC branded and referred to as AT & T ( formerly cingular बेतार LLC ), is a wholly owned subsidiary of at & t inc. कि provides बेतार services to 107 million subscribers in the संयुक्त राज्य, सहित प्यूर्टो Rico and the u.S. Virgin आइलैंड्स.
AT & t गतिशीलता is the दूसरी largest बेतार telecommunications प्रदाता in the संयुक्त States और Puerto Rico, पीछे verizon Wireless, which serves 115.78 लाख ग्राहक as of the चौथी क्वार्टर of 2012.
AT & T गतिशीलता is headquartered in the lenox पार्क क्षेत्रफल of dekalb Co. Georgia, just outside अटलांटा.
originally Cingular Wireless llc इससे 2000 to 2007, a joint venture between sbc संचार and bellsouth, the कम्पनी acquired the old at & T Wireless in 2004 ; sbc later acquired the original at & t और re-branded as `` at & T ''.
cingular became wholly स्वामित्व by AT & t in December 2006 as a result of at & t 's acquisition of bellsouth.
In January 2007, Cingular पुष्टि it होता re-brand itself under the AT & T नाम.
हालांकि the विधिक corporate नाम change occurred immediately, लिये दोनो नियामक और brand-awareness reasons both ब्रांड्स were प्रयुक्त in the कम्पनी 's signage और advertising दौरान a transition काल.
The परिवर्तन concluded in late जून, just prior to the rollout of the Apple iphone.
On March 20, 2011, at & t Mobility announced इसके intention to acquire T-Mobile यूएसए from डॉयचे Telekom लिये $ 39 billion.
If it had प्राप्त सरकारी and regulatory approval, AT & T होता have had अधिक than 130 लाख subscribers.
however, the u.S. Department of इंसाफ, the संघीय Communications आयोग, और AT & t गतिशीलता 's competitors ( ऐसे as Sprint nextel ) opposed the move on the grounds that it होता reduce competition in the सेल्यूलर संचार market.
in दिसम्बर 2011, in the फेस of both सरकारी और फैली उपभोक्ता विपक्ष, AT & t withdrew उनके प्रस्ताव to पूरा the विलय.
Martin लूथर किंग, Jr. ( January 15, 1929 – अप्रैल 4, 1968 ) थी an अमरीकी clergyman, activist, and नेता in the African-American सिविल अधिकारों Movement.
He is बेहतरीन ज्ञात for his भूमिका in the advancement of civil अधिकारों using nonviolent सिविल disobedience.
King रै become a नेशनल icon in the history of American प्रगतिवाद.
a Baptist मंत्री, किंग became a civil rights activist जल्दी in उसके career.
he led the 1955 मोंटगोमरी बस बहिष्कार और helped मिला the दक्षिणी Christian Leadership सम्मेलन ( sclc ) in 1957, serving as इसके first अध्यक्ष.
With the sclc, किंग led an unsuccessful संघर्ष against पृथक्करण in albany, जॉर्जिया, in 1962, और organized nonviolent विरोध in बर्मिंघम, Alabama, कि आकर्षित नेशनल ध्यान following television न्यूज कवरेज of the क्रूर police जवाब.
King भी helped to व्यवस्थित the 1963 कूच on Washington, जहाँ he वितरित उसके `` I have a सपना `` speech.
वहीँ, he स्थापित his प्रतिष्ठा as एक of the महानतम orators in अमरीकी history.
he भी स्थापित his प्रतिष्ठा as a कट्टरपंथी, और became an ऑब्जेक्ट of the संघीय Bureau of छानबीन 's cointelpro for the बाकी of उसके जीवन.
एफबीआई एजेंटों investigated him for possible कम्युनिस्ट ties, अंकित his extramarital liaisons and reported on them to सरकारी officials, और on one अवसर, mailed किंग a threatening anonymous letter that he interpreted as an attempt to make उसे commit suicide.
On October 14, 1964, किंग प्राप्त the Nobel सलाम पुरस्कार लिये combating जातिगत असमानता through nonviolence.
in 1965, he and the sclc helped to organize the Selma to मोंटगोमरी marches और the following साल, he took the movement उत्तर to शिकागो.
In the final सालो of his life, किंग विस्तारित his फ़ोकस to शामिल गरीबी और the Vietnam युद्ध, alienating many of his उदार allies with a 1967 speech titled `` परे Vietnam ''.
King was नियोजन a नेशनल occupation of वॉशिंगटन, d.C., पुकारा the ग़रीब People 's अभियान.
किंग थी assassinated on अप्रैल 4, 1968, in Memphis, टेनेसी.
उसके death was followed by riots in अनेक U.S. शहरों.
Allegations कि James अर्ल Ray, the man convicted of हत्या किंग, था महरूम framed or acted in concert with government एजेंटों persisted for decades बाद the shooting, और the jury of a 1999 सिविल विचारण मिला Loyd Jowers to be complicit in a षड्यंत्र विरूद्ध किंग.
King was awarded the Presidential पदक of Freedom और the congressional सुनहरा पदक मरणोपरांत.
Martin लूथर King, jr. Day was established as a U.S. संघीय अवकाश in 1986.
Hundreds of streets in the u.S. have been renamed in उसके honor.
A मेमोरियल प्रतिमा on the नेशनल मॉल थी खोली to the पब्लिक in 2011.
The बाघ ( पेंथेरा tigris ) is the largest cat प्रजाति, reaching a कुल body लंबाई of up to और weighing up to.
it is the third largest land carnivore ( पीछे तभी the polar भालू और the brown bear ).
इसके सबसे recognizable विशेषता is a पैटर्न of dark लंबवत धारियाँ on reddish-orange फर साथ a lighter underside.
it रै exceptional stout दांत, and the canines are the longest among living felids साथ a क्राउन ऊँचाई of as much as or भी.
In zoos, टाइगर्स have lived for 20 to 26 सालो, which also seems to be their आयु in the जंगली.
वे हैं territorial and generally एकान्त लकिन सोशल animals, often requiring large संलग्न areas of habitat कि support उनके prey requirements.
इस, coupled with the फैक्ट कि they हैं स्वदेशी to some of the more densely आबादी places on धरती, has caused significant विरोध with इंसानो.
टाइगर्स once ranged widely आरपार Asia, इससे तुर्कों in the वेस्ट to the eastern coast of रूस.
Over the past 100 सालो, they have lost 93 % of their ऐतिहासिक दायरा, और have महरूम extirpated इससे दक्षिणपश्चिम and central एशिया, from the आइलैंड्स of जावा and bali, and इससे विशाल क्षेत्रों of southeast और Eastern Asia.
आज, वे दायरा इससे the Siberian ताइगा to खोलें grasslands और tropical mangrove swamps.
the बाकी छह बाघ subspecies have been classified as endangered by आईयूसीएन.
The वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी in the wild is estimated to क्रमांक between 3,062 और 3,948 individuals, bas इससे around 100,000 at the प्रारंभ of the 20th सदी, साथ सबसे remaining populations occurring in छोटी pockets isolated from प्रत्येक अन्य.
प्रमुख कारण for जनसांख्यिकी मनाही शामिल आवास destruction, आवास fragmentation और poaching.
the extent of क्षेत्रफल occupied by टाइगर्स is estimated at कम than, a 41 % decline from the क्षेत्रफल estimated in the mid-1990s.
टाइगर्स are among the सबसे recognisable और लोकप्रिय of the संसार 's charismatic महाप्राणी.
वे have प्रदर्शित prominently in प्राचीन mythology और लोकगीत, and continue to be चित्रित in आधुनिक films and literature.
टाइगर्स appear on अनेक flags, coats of arms, and as mascots for sporting teams.
The बंगाल बाघ is the national एनिमल of दोनो इण्डिया and बांग्लादेश.
the सरलीकृत आतंरिक structure of a chloroplast
अवलोकन of the calvin cycle and कार्बन fixation
the light-independent reactions of photosynthesis हैं रासायनिक reactions that बदलें carbon डाइऑक्साइड और other compounds into ग्लूकोज.
ये प्रतिक्रियाएँ occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled area of a हरितलवक बाहर of the thylakoid membranes.
ये reactions लो the light-dependent प्रतिक्रियाएँ और perform further रासायनिक प्रक्रियाओं on them.
वहीँ हैं three phases to the light-independent reactions, collectively पुकारा the Calvin साईकिल : कार्बन fixation, कटौती प्रतिक्रियाएँ, and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration.
despite its name, this process occurs तभी जब लाइट is उपलब्धियाँ.
पौधे do not carry आउट the Calvin साईकिल by रात्रि.
वे, बजाय, रिलीज sucrose into the phloem from their मंड reserves.
This process happens when light is उपलब्धियाँ independent of the दयालु of photosynthesis ( c3 कार्बन fixation, C4 कार्बन fixation, और crassulacean Acid Metabolism ) ; कैम plants स्टोर malic acid in उनके vacuoles every रात्रि और रिलीज it by day in अनुक्रम to मेक this process work.
a लिनेन रूमाल साथ pulled लड़ी embroidery around the किनारे
Linen cloth बरामद इससे Qumran Cave 1 near the Dead Sea.
Linen ( ) is a वस्त्र बना इससे the fibers of the flax plant, linum usitatissimum.
लिनेन is labor-intensive to manufacture, लकिन जब it is made into garments, it is valued लिये इसके exceptional coolness और ताजगी in hot weather.
The word `` linen '' is of West germanic origin and cognates साथ the लैटिन name लिये the flax संयंत्र linum, और the पहले यूनानी λινόν ( linon ).
This शब्द इतिहास रै दिए वृद्धि to a क्रमांक of अन्य terms in अंग्रेज़ी, the सबसे notable of जिससे is the अंग्रेज़ी शब्द लकीर, निकला from the use of a लिनेन ( flax ) thread to determine a सीधा line.
Textiles in a लिनेन बुनते बनावट, भी when बना of कपास, hemp और other non-flax मछली हैं also loosely referred to as `` लिनेन ''.
Such fabrics generally have उनके अपना specific names अन्य than लिनेन ; लिये example, fine कपास yarn in a linen-style बुनते is पुकारा madapolam.
the सामूहिक term `` linens `` is still often प्रयुक्त generically to describe a क्लास of woven और भी knitted bed, bath, तालिका और रसोईघर वस्त्र.
The name linens is retained क्युकी traditionally, linen थी used लिये many of ये items.
in the पास्ट, the शब्द `` linens '' थी भी प्रयुक्त to औसत lightweight undergarments such as shirts, chemises, waistshirts, lingerie ( a शब्द भी cognate साथ लिनेन ), और detachable कमीज़ छल्लों and cuffs, जिससे were historically बना लगभग exclusively आउट of लिनेन.
the अंदर cloth परत of fine composite clothing garments ( as for उदाहरण jackets ) was traditionally बना of लिनेन, and इस is the उत्पत्ति of the word अस्तर.
लिनेन वस्त्र appear to be कुछ of the oldest in the world : their इतिहास goes वापस many thousands of years.
Fragments of स्ट्रॉ, seeds, fibers, yarns, और विभिन्न प्रकार of fabrics जिससे date वापस to about 8000 bc have been मिला in Swiss lake dwellings.
dyed flax fibers found in a प्रागैतिहासिक cave in जॉर्जिया suggest the उपयोग of woven लिनेन fabrics from जंगली flax may तिथि वापस भी earlier to 36,000 bp.
लिनेन थी sometimes used as करेंसी in ancient Egypt.
मिश्र mummies were लपेटा in लिनेन क्युकी it थी देखी as a प्रतीक of लाइट और पवित्रता, और as a display of माल.
कुछ of ये fabrics, woven इससे हाथ spun yarns, were बहुत fine लिये उनके दिन, but हैं coarse compared to modern linen.
Today, linen is प्रायः an expensive textile, और is produced in अपेक्षाकृत छोटी quantities.
It has a long `` स्टेपल '' ( व्यक्तिगत रेशा length ) सापेक्ष to कपास और अन्य natural मछली.
अनेक उत्पाद हैं बना of linen : aprons, बैग, तौलिये ( swimmers, bath, beach, देह और धो तौलिये ), napkins, bed linens, लिनेन tablecloths, धावक, chair कवर, और men 's & महिलाओं 's wear.
The फीफा संसार कप, often बस the संसार कप, is an अंतरराष्ट्रीय association फ़ुटबॉल competition contested by the senior मेन 's national टीमों of the सदस्यों of fédération Internationale de फ़ुटबॉल Association ( फीफा ), the खेल 's वैश्विक शासी body.
the championship रै been awarded प्रत्येक चार सालो since the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1930, मगर in 1942 and 1946 जब it was नहीं held क्युकी of the Second World युद्ध.
the वर्तमान champions हैं Spain, जो जीती the 2010 टूर्नामेंट.
the वर्तमान स्वरूप of the tournament involves 32 टीमों स्पर्धा लिये the शीर्षक at venues भीतर the मेजबान nation ( s ) over a काल of about a माह ; इस phase is प्रायः पुकारा the संसार Cup फाइनल.
A योग्यता phase, which फिलहाल takes place over the preceding तीन सालो, is used to determine जिससे टीमों qualify लिये the टूर्नामेंट साथ with the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ).
The 19 World Cup tournaments have महरूम जीती by आठ अलग national teams.
ब्राज़ील have जीती five टाइम्स, और वे are the तभी टोली to have played in प्रत्येक tournament.
the अन्य संसार कप winners हैं इटली, साथ चार शीर्षक ; Germany, साथ three titles ; अर्जेंटीना और inaugural winners उरुग्वे, साथ दो शीर्षक प्रत्येक ; और England, France, और Spain, with एक title each.
the संसार कप is the संसार 's most widely viewed sporting इवेंट ; an अनुमानित 715.1 लाख people देखी the final मैच of the 2006 फीफा World कप आयोजित in Germany.
the next three संसार Cups होगा be hosted by Brazil in 2014, रूस in 2018, and Qatar in 2022.
the is an expansion यंत्र लिये the वी Remote video game नियंत्रक लिये the Wii that allows it to more accurately कैप्चर complex motion.
according to Nintendo, the सेंसर in the यंत्र supplements the accelerometer और सेंसर Bar capabilities of the Wii Remote to enable क्रियाएँ to be rendered identically on the screen in रियल समय.
the वी 's successor console, the Wii u, supports the वी motionplus और इसके peripherals in खेल जहाँ उपयोग of इसके touchscreen-built-in प्राथमिक नियंत्रक is नहीं जरुरी.
majulah singapura ( onward Singapore ) is the national गान of सिंगापुर.
रचित by Zubir कहा in 1958 as a theme song लिये आधिकारिक कृत्यों of the नगर परिषद of Singapore, the सोंग was चयनित in 1959 as the द्वीप 's anthem when it attained self-government.
upon पूरा independence in 1965, majulah singapura थी formally adopted as सिंगापुर 's नेशनल गान.
By विधि the anthem may only be सुंग साथ इसके असली मलय गीत, हालांकि वहीँ मौजूद प्राधिकृत translations of the गीत of the गान in सिंगापुर 's तीन other आधिकारिक भाषाएं : English, मंदारिन और तमिल.
Originally रचित in the कुंजी of g प्रमुख, in 2001 the नेशनल anthem was officially relaunched in the निम्नतर key of f major as इस was कहा to allow लिये a `` grander और अधिक inspiring व्यवस्था ''.
The नेशनल anthem is regularly performed or sung in स्कूलों और हथियारबंद forces शिविरों at ceremonies held at the शुरूआत and/or the end of each day, दौरान जिससे the नेशनल flag is भी उठाया और lowered और the नेशनल प्रतिज्ञा is लिया.
Singaporeans हैं विशेषकर encouraged to गाओ the नेशनल anthem on अवसरों of नेशनल जश्न or national significance such as at the नेशनल दिन Parade, at नेशनल दिन observance ceremonies conducted by शैक्षणिक संस्थानों और सरकारी departments, and at sporting कार्यक्रम at जिससे सिंगापुर teams are participating.
an expedition 's shipwrights building a brigantine, 1541.
shipbuilding is the construction of जहाजों और floating vessels.
It normally takes प्लेस in a specialized facility ज्ञात as a shipyard.
shipbuilders, भी पुकारा shipwrights, follow a specialized occupation that traces इसके जड़ें to पहले अंकित history.
shipbuilding और ship repairs, दोनो वाणिज्यिक और military, हैं referred to as `` नवल engineering ''.
the निर्माण of नौकाएँ is a similar कार्यकलाप पुकारा नाव भवन.
The dismantling of जहाजों is called जलयान तोड़कर.
wakonda is a town in मिट्टी County, दक्षिण Dakota, संयुक्त States.
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 321 at the 2010 census.
the following is a list of the सबसे populous incorporated स्थान of the United राज्य of अमेरिका.
as defined by the संयुक्त राज्य Census Bureau, an `` incorporated प्लेस `` includes a किस्में of designations, including नगर, कस्बा, village, borough, and नगरपालिका.
a few exceptional जनसांख्यिकी designated स्थान ( cdps ) are भी शामिल in the जनसांख्यिकी Bureau 's listing of incorporated places.
Consolidated city-counties represent a पृथक प्रकार of सरकारी कि includes the संपूर्ण population of a county, or county equivalent.
कुछ consolidated city-counties, however, शामिल अनेक incorporated स्थान.
इस सूची presents तभी कि portion ( or `` balance '' ) of ऐसे consolidated city-counties कि हैं not a part of another incorporated प्लेस.
नोट कि this सूची refers only to the population of व्यक्तिगत municipalities within उनके पारिभाषित हद, जिससे does नहीं include other municipalities or unincorporated suburban क्षेत्रों भीतर urban agglomerations.
a different ranking is evident जब considering U.S. महानगर क्षेत्रफल populations.
alt=Larger flashcart, shown साथ छोटी card and u.S. क्वार्टर लिये आकार
Nintendo ds भंडार devices हैं devices प्रयुक्त to स्टोर a licensed डेवलपर 's work-in-progress बिंब, homebrew वीडियो games और डाउनलोड commercial games ( since the Nintendo DS is नहीं बेची साथ a rewritable भंडार मीडियम ).
licensed डेवलपर, however, can use a ब्लू बुद्धिमान प्रणालियों नाइट्रो Emulator बक्सा to फ्लैश cards.
ये डिवाइस हैं भी known as `` flashcarts '' or `` flashcards ''.
वहीँ हैं दो main वर्ग of flashcarts : older डिवाइस जिससे अनुरूप in slot-2 ( the खेल Boy Advance Game पाक slot ) and नए डिवाइस कि fit in Slot-1 ( the DS Game कार्ड slot ).
slot-2 ( or first-generation ) devices have महरूम historically सस्ता due to economies of स्केल ( inherited इससे उनके उपयोग साथ खेल लड़के Advance ), लकिन आवश्यकता a booting tool in Slot-1 in order to उपयोग the टच स्क्रीन and other ds सुविधाएँ.
second-generation डिवाइस ( those जिससे only use Slot-1 ) do नहीं कार्य with gba homebrew, but became कम expensive और easier to उपयोग, rivaling many slot-2 डिवाइस in दाम.
First-generation डिवाइस शामिल gba flash cartridges, gbamp cf, SuperCard, और m3.
second-generation devices शामिल r4 क्रान्ति, cyclods, g6 रियल और DS-X.
the storage यंत्र either contains फ्लैश memory or a स्लॉट लिये a मेमोरी card to स्टोर homebrew.
भंडार डिवाइस with a memory-card स्लॉट usually have more भंडार क्षमता than flash-memory डिवाइस.
हालांकि flash-memory capacity is प्रायः measured in megabits ( mb ), memory-card क्षमता is प्रायः measured in मेगाबाइट ( mb ) ( where 8 mb is 1 mb ).
Storage-device brands differ in their support लिये homebrew ; ds and खेल Boy अग्रिम ROMs ; special सुविधाएँ ( ऐसे as ability to खेल मीडिया फाइलें ) ; शारीरिक आकार और लागत.
सख्ती speaking, a storage device is not जरुरी लिये ds साथ FlashMe installed क्युकी homebrew can be भेजा to the DS using WMB.
However, इस is not an easily-portable विधि क्युकी the ds needs to be within दायरा of a suitable wi-fi कार्ड.
are अमरीकी लोगों of जापानी heritage.
Japanese अमेरिकी have historically महरूम among the three largest Asian अमरीकी communities, लकिन in हाल दशकों, it has become the छठे largest समूह at roughly 1,304,286, सहित those of mixed-race or mixed-ethnicity.
In the 2010 census, the largest Japanese American communities were found in कैलिफ़ोर्निया with 272,528, हवाई with 185,502, New York with 37,780, वॉशिंगटन with 35,008, और इलिनोइस with 17,542.
Southern कैलिफ़ोर्निया has the largest Japanese-American population in North America.
200px
This is a व्यापक लिस्टिंग जिससे हाइलाइट significant achievements और milestones आधारित upon बिलबोर्ड magazine 's singles charts, most notably the बिलबोर्ड hot 100.
इस list spans इससे the समस्या dated January 1, 1955 to उपस्थित.
The Billboard hot 100 began with the issue दिनाँक August 4, 1958, और is फिलहाल the मानक लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक चार्ट in the संयुक्त राज्य.
prior to the सृष्टि of the Hot 100, Billboard published चार singles charts : `` बेहतरीन विक्रेता in स्टोर्स '', `` सबसे Played by jockeys '', `` सबसे Played in jukeboxes '' and `` the शीर्ष 100 ''.
ये चार्ट, जिससे ranged इससे 20 to 100 स्लॉट, were phased out at अलग टाइम्स between 1957 और 1958.
Though technically not part of the hot 100 चार्ट इतिहास, उनके आंकड़ा is शामिल for कम्प्यूटेशनल उद्देश्य, and to avoid unenlightening or misleading characterizations.
All वस्तुएं सूचीबद्ध below are इससे the hot 100 era, unless वरना noted ( pre-hot 100 charts ).
v is an अमरीकी science fiction टेलीविज़न series कि भागा लिये दो सीज़न on ABC, इससे November 3, 2009 to कूच 15, 2011.
a remake of the 1983 miniseries निर्मित by केनेथ जॉनसन, the नई series chronicles the आगमन on Earth of a technologically उन्नत alien species जिससे ostensibly आता in सलाम, लकिन दरअसल has sinister motives.
V stars मुरैना Baccarin, lourdes benedicto, मॉरिस Chestnut, Joel gretsch, लोगन Huffman, Charles mesure, Elizabeth मिशेल, लौरा Vandervoort और स्कॉट Wolf, और was executive उत्पादित by स्कॉट rosenbaum, यवेस Simoneau, स्कॉट पीटर्स, and jace Hall.
the series थी उत्पादित by The स्कॉट पीटर्स Company, hdfilms and warner Bros. Television.
Geocaching is an outdoor recreational कार्यकलाप, in जिससे the भागीदार use a Global positioning System ( gps ) receiver or mobile यंत्र और अन्य navigational techniques to छुपा and seek containers, called `` geocaches '' or `` caches '', anywhere in the संसार.
A ठेठ cache is a small waterproof संग्राहक containing a logbook where the geocacher enters the date they मिला it और लक्षण it साथ उनके स्थापित कोड नाम.
After हस्ताक्षर into the log, the संचय must be लगाई वापस exactly where the व्यक्ति मिला it.
Larger containers ऐसे as plastic storage containers ( Tupperware or समान ) or ammunition बाक्स can भी contain items for व्यापार, प्रायः खिलौने or trinkets of छोटी value.
Geocaching साझा अनेक aspects with benchmarking, trigpointing, orienteering, treasure-hunting, letterboxing, and waymarking.
Boogie Down Productions थी a हिप हॉप समूह कि थी originally composed of krs-one, d-nice, और dj स्कॉट La चट्टान.
DJ स्कॉट la चट्टान थी murdered on August 27, 1987, महीने बाद the release of BDP 's debut एल्बम, Criminal Minded.
the नाम of the समूह, Boogie bas, गर्भाशयी from a उपनाम लिये the South Bronx खण्ड of The Bronx, एक of the five boroughs of नई यॉर्क City.
the group pioneered the संलयन of dancehall reggae और हिप hop म्यूज़िक और their debut lp दण्ड minded contained फ़्रैंक descriptions of life in the दक्षिण bronx of the लेट 1980s यूँ सेटिंग the stage लिये कया would eventually become gangsta रैप.
a municipal बंध is a bond issued by a local सरकारी, or उनके agencies.
Potential issuers of नगरपालिका bonds include states, शहरों, counties, redevelopment एजेंसियों, special-purpose districts, स्कूल जिले, पब्लिक utility जिले, सरेआम स्वामित्व एयरपोर्ट and seaports, and कोई अन्य सरकारी एंटिटी ( or समूह of governments ) at or below the state स्तर.
नगरपालिका bonds may be general दायित्वों of the जारीकर्ता or secured by specified revenues.
in the United States, ब्याज income received by धारकों of नगरपालिका bonds is प्रायः exempt from the संघीय आय कर और इससे the आय कर of the राज्य in which वे are जारी, हालांकि नगरपालिका bonds issued लिये certain purposes may not be tax exempt.
Unlike नई issue stocks कि हैं brought to मार्केट साथ दाम प्रतिबंध जबतक the deal is sold, नगरपालिका bonds are फ़्री to trade at कोई समय एकबार वे हैं खरीदा by the investor.
पेशेवर traders regularly trade and retrade the वही bonds अनेक टाइम्स a सप्ताह.
`` gim me Some lovin ' '' is a सोंग लिखा by स्टीव winwood, Spencer डेविस and Muff winwood, और originally performed by the स्पेंसर डेविस Group.
the basic रिफ of the सोंग was borrowed from the होमर Banks सोंग `` ( Ai n't That ) A लॉट of प्रेम '', लिखा by बैंको and Willie डीन `` Deanie '' पार्कर.
`` gim me कुछ Lovin ' '' थी a uk # 2 in the पतझड़ of 1966 and a US # 7.
the song is ranked # 247 on the Rolling Stone magazine 's सूची of the 500 महानतम Songs of All Time.
the version issued in the uk ( और संभवतः सबसे of यूरोपीय ) is अलग from कि जारी in the us on the United Artists label, होने धीमा, and lacking the backing vocals और `` सजीव sounding '' performance found on the us single.
( The US version has more often महरूम used on reissue CDs, भी those coming from Europe. )
the सिंगल सुविधाएँ the ध्वनि of the हैमंड B-3 अंग.
The अंतरजाल फिल्म Database ( आईएमडीबी ) is an ऑनलाइन डेटाबेस of सूचना सम्बन्धित to films, television कार्यक्रम, और वीडियो खेल.
This includes actors, production क्रू कर्मियों, और fictional वर्ण प्रदर्शित in ये तीन विज़ुअल entertainment मीडिया.
It is एक of the सबसे लोकप्रिय ऑनलाइन entertainment destinations, साथ over 100 million unique उपयोक्ता each month and a solid and rapidly growing मोबाईल उपस्थिति.
IMDb was launched on अक्तूबर 17, 1990, और in 1998 थी acquired by Amazon.com.
As of अप्रैल 27, 2013, IMDb had 2,503,783 शीर्षक ( includes एपीसोड ) और 5,192,493 personalities in इसके database, as खूब as 43 million registered users.
the website has an एलेक्सा रैंक of 48.
fibre चैनल मेजबान बस Adapter ( 64-bit pci-x कार्ड )
scsi Host बस एडाप्टर ( 16-bit ISA कार्ड )
in कंप्यूटर हार्डवेयर, a host controller, मेजबान एडाप्टर, or मेजबान bus एडाप्टर ( hba ) connects a मेजबान system ( the कंप्यूटर ) to other संजाल और भंडार डिवाइस.
The शर्तें are primarily प्रयुक्त to refer to devices लिये connecting scsi, fibre चैनल and esata devices.
However, डिवाइस लिये connecting to आईडीई, ईथरनेट, firewire, usb और other प्रणालियों may also be called मेजबान adapters.
recently, the आगमन of iSCSI और fibre Channel over ईथरनेट रै brought परिचय ईथरनेट HBAs, जिससे हैं अलग इससे ईथरनेट nics in कि they include TCP offload Engines.
वहीँ हैं also converged hbas that support both Ethernet and Fibre चैनल called Converged संजाल adapters ( CNAs ).
Cashmere स्कार्फ
आधुनिक मेन 's cashmere sweaters लिये बिक्री.
Cashmere ऊन, प्रायः simply ज्ञात as cashmere, is a रेशा obtained from cashmere goats और other types of बकरी.
the शब्द cashmere गर्भाशयी इससे an बूढ़ा स्पेलिंग of काश्मीर.
cashmere is ठीक in texture, strong, लाइट, and नरम.
Garments बना इससे it provide बेहतरीन इन्सुलेशन.
In the संयुक्त राज्य, under the U.S. Wool उत्पाद labeling Act of 1939, as amended, ( 15 uction 68b ( a ) ( 6 ) ), राज्य that a wool or textile product may not be labeled as containing cashmere unless:
ऐसे wool उत्पाद is the ठीक ( dehaired ) undercoat मछली उत्पादित by a cashmere goat ( capra hircus laniger ) ;
the औसत diameter of the रेशा of ऐसे ऊन उत्पाद does नहीं exceed 19 माइक्रोन ; और
such ऊन उत्पाद करता नहीं contain अधिक than 3 percent ( by weight ) of cashmere मछली with औसत diameters कि exceed 30 microns.
the औसत रेशा व्यास may be विषय to a गुणांक of विभिन्नता around the औसत कि shall नहीं exceed 24 percent.
जेनिफर convertibles inc. is the मालिक और licensor of sofabed and leather specialty खुदरा स्टोर्स in the संयुक्त States, साथ स्टोर्स स्तिथ throughout the पूर्वी seaboard, in the मिडवेस्ट, on the West Coast और in the दक्षिणपश्चिम.
The कम्पनी was संस्थापित in 1975 and is based in Woodbury, नई York.
on July 19, 2010, the कम्पनी announced कि it था दायर लिये दिवालियापन as a consequence of `` substantial नुकसान ''.
According to फर्नीचर Today the कम्पनी थी क्रमांक 48 among फर्नीचर retailers with us $ 114 लाख in बिक्री for the year समाप्ति August 29, 2009.
It subsequently emerged इससे अध्याय 11 अंतर्गत the control of इसके major प्रदायक, the Haining Mengnu समूह.
अंडा roll is a term प्रयुक्त लिये अनेक अलग भोजन around the world.
2__Egg_roll __ किस्में of अंडा rolls हैं found in मेनलैंड China, many chinese-speaking regions of Asia, and चाइनीज अप्रवासी समुदायों around the संसार.
अंडा rolls as referred to in China.
in guangdong and हांग Kong, egg फेंकें usually refers to बिस्किट roll.
इस is a type of biscuit.
The ingredient included अंडा, आटा and sugar.
अंडा roll also is a डिश in Canton और हांग काँग, इस is प्रायः बना with vegetable.
Within चीन अंडा rolls are खाया predominantly in the southeast and हैं not as commonly consumed in the north and पश्चिमी parts of चीन.
In अमरीकी Chinese भोजन, an अंडा फेंकें is a savory डिश typically served as an क्षुधावर्धक.
it is प्रायः stuffed साथ chicken, pork or झींगा, गोभी, carrots, टमाटर, सेम sprouts और other vegetables, और then गहन fried.
This किस्में of the अंडा फेंकें is बहुत आम और लोकप्रिय, across भी क्षेत्रीय किस्में of American Chinese food, और is प्रायः included as भाग of a `` संयोजन platter ''.
in मॉन्ट्रियल, कनाडा, open-ended eggrolls are a jewish-chinese fusion डिश.
वे can be either कोषेर certified or merely कोषेर style.
Pain and कष्ट is the विधिक पद for the शारीरिक and emotional stress caused इससे an injury ( देखिए also पीड़ा और कष्ट ).
कुछ क्षतिपूर्ति कि might be under this category होता be : aches, अस्थाई और स्थाई सीमाएं on कार्यकलाप, potential shortening of जीवन, अवसाद or scarring.
जब दाखिल a मुकदमा as a result of an चोट, it is आम लिये someone to तलाश धन both in compensation लिये वास्तविक money कि is lost और for the पीड़ा and stress associated with वस्तुतः any चोट.
In a suit, पीड़ा और suffering is part of the `` सामान्य क्षतिपूर्ति '' section of the claimant 's अर्जी, or, alternatively, it is an element of `` compensatory '' non-economic damages that allows recovery for the दिमागी anguish and/or physical pain endured by the claimant as a result of चोट for which the plaintiff seeks परितोष.
अलावा इससे money damages awarded in विचारण, धन क्षतिपूर्ति are also दिए informally outside the न्यायिक system in mediations, arbitration ( both of जिससे may be अदालत annexed or non litigated दावा ) as खूब as in दिनचर्या insurance settlements.
Individual claimants or those represented by वकील often present मांगे to insurers to settle for money.
ये demand for bodily चोट मुआवजे monies प्रायः नियत out damages कि हैं similarly प्रयुक्त in the court litigated pleadings.
मांगे हैं usually written summaries of a claimant 's medical care और the facts which resulted in the चोट.
Sample of a medallion signature गारंटी stampIn
the संयुक्त राज्य और Canada, a medallion signature guarantee is a special signature गारंटी लिये the transfer of securities.
it is a guarantee by the transferring financial institution कि the हस्ताक्षर is वास्तविक and the financial संस्था स्वीकृत देयता for कोई forgery.
हस्ताक्षर guarantees protect शेयरधारकों by preventing unauthorized transfers और possible निवेशकों नुकसान.
They also सीमा the देयता of the transfer एजेंट जो स्वीकृत the प्रमाणपत्र.
Different संस्थानों have अलग नीतियों as to what प्रकार of identification they आवश्यकता to provide the guarantee and whether वे चार्ज a fee लिये ऐसे सेवा ( प्रायः nominal if any ).
सबसे institutions will नहीं guarantee a हस्ताक्षर of किसी who रै नहीं already महरूम their ग्राहक.
A medallion हस्ताक्षर गारंटी is नहीं the same as an acknowledgment by a notary public, in the भाव that a `` हस्ताक्षर गारंटी '' is a प्रमाणन by the संस्था कि the हस्ताक्षर is प्रामाणिक, और an acknowledgment is a प्रमाणन by a नोटरी public attesting कि the signer signed a दस्तावेज़ voluntarily.
कुछ banks may no longer provide this सेवा, however, अनेक स्टिल do as खूब as अन्य वित्तीय institutions ऐसे as a बचत and लोन and क्रेडिट Unions.
At उनके एकमात्र discretion, these संस्थानों may स्टिल मनाही to provide the Medallion हस्ताक्षर Guarantees.
जब US citizens are abroad, कुछ financial संस्थानों may accept संयुक्त राज्य दूतावास seals, in place of the medallion हस्ताक्षर गारंटी Stamp.
प्रशांत Electric रेल streetcars stacked at a junkyard on टर्मिनल द्वीप, लॉस एंजिल्स County, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, कूच 1956
The सामान्य मोटर्स streetcar conspiracy ( also ज्ञात as the Great अमरीकी स्ट्रीटकार कांड ) refers to allegations और convictions in relation to a कार्यक्रम by सामान्य मोटर्स ( GM ) और other कंपनियाँ who खरीदा and तब dismantled स्ट्रीटकार और इलेक्ट्रिक train प्रणालियों in many अमरीकी cities.
between 1936 और 1950, National नगर लाइनों and प्रशांत City लाइनों —with investment from gm, Firestone टायर, मानक Oil of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, phillips पेट्रोलियम, Mack Trucks, and the संघीय अभियान्त्रिकी Corporation—bought over 100 इलेक्ट्रिक surface-traction systems in 45 शहरों including बाल्टीमोर, न्यूर्क, लॉस एंजिल्स, नई यॉर्क City, ओकलैंड and San Diego and परिवर्तित them into बस आपरेशन.
Several of the कंपनियाँ शामिल यहूद convicted in 1949 of conspiracy to monopolize अंतरराज्यीय commerce but were acquitted of conspiring to monopolize the स्वामित्व of these कंपनियाँ.
Some सुझाएँ कि इस program निभाई a कुंजी role in the decline of पब्लिक पारगमन in cities across the United States ; notably एडविन J. Quinby, who पहला drew attention to the program in 1946, और then ब्रैडफोर्ड C. Snell, an anti-trust attorney लिये the संयुक्त States Senate whose controversial 1974 testimony to a सीनेट पूछताछ brought the issue to नेशनल जागरूकता.
दोनो quinby and snell argued कि the deliberate destruction of streetcars थी भाग of a larger strategy to push the संयुक्त States into ऑटोमोबाइल निर्भरता.
अन्य say कि स्वतंत्र economic कारकों brought परिचय changes in the पारगमन प्रणाली, सहित the ग्रेट Depression, the पब्लिक Utility पकड़कर Company अधिनियम of 1935, मजदूर अशांति, मार्केट forces, rapidly increasing traffic जमघट, urban sprawl, taxation नीतियों कि favored private गाडी स्वामित्व, और general enthusiasm लिये the automobile.
One लेखक on the विषय रै सुझाया that snell और अन्य गिरी into simplistic षड्यंत्र theory सोच, bordering on paranoid delusions saying `` Clearly, gm waged a युद्ध on electric traction.
it थी indeed an सब आउट उत्पीड़न, लकिन by no means the सिंगल कारण लिये the विफलता of rapid पारगमन.
भी, it is बस as साफ कि क्रियाएँ और inactions by government contributed significantly to the elimination of electric कर्षण. ''
Only a छोटी handful of u.S. शहरों have surviving प्रभावी rail-based शहरी हस्तांतरण systems based on streetcars or trams, सहित न्यूर्क, Philadelphia, San Francisco, पिट्सबर्ग, और बोस्टन ; others हैं re-introducing उन्हें.
the स्टोरी रै been explored अनेक times in छपाई, film और अन्य मीडिया, notably in Who framed रोजर खरगोश, लिया लिये a सवारी और the समाप्त of Suburbia.
corwin हाउस, Salem, मैसाचुसेट्स, built ca. 1660, पहला काल अंग्रेज़ी
अमरीकी colonial वास्तुकला includes several भवन design styles associated साथ the औपनिवेशिक period of the संयुक्त States, सहित पहला काल अंग्रेज़ी ( late-medieval ), फ्रेंच औपनिवेशिक, स्पेनी Colonial, Dutch Colonial और जॉर्जियाई.
ये शैलियाँ are संबद्ध with the घरों, चर्च और सरकारी buildings of the काल इससे परिचय 1600 through the 19th सदी.
`` in the मनोदशा '' is a big बैंड era # 1 hit अंकित by अमरीकी bandleader ग्लेन Miller.
It topped the charts in 1940 in the U.S. and एक साल बाद थी प्रदर्शित in the फिल्म सूर्य घाटी serenade.
in 1999, नेशनल पब्लिक Radio ( npr ) शामिल the 1939 Glenn मिलर रिकॉर्डिंग on आरसीए bluebird on the NPR 100, the list of `` the 100 सबसे महत्वपूर्ण अमरीकी musical works of the 20th century ''.
वरुण logo
The वरुण कनाडा project is the world’s पहला regional-scale भाटे समंदर वेधशाला that plugs सीधे into the अंतरजाल.
Since December 2009, it has अनुमत लोगों to `` लहरे '' the seafloor जबकि ocean वैज्ञानिकों run deep-water experiments from labs और universities around the संसार.
Along साथ इसके sister प्रोजेक्ट, शुक्र, वरुण offers a unique दृष्टिकोण to ocean विज्ञान.
Traditionally, ocean वैज्ञानिकों have relied on infrequent ship क्रूज़ or space-based satellites to carry out उनके research, while the वरुण प्रोजेक्ट uses a remotely संचालित crawler.
a gramophone record, commonly known as a फोनोग्राफ record ( in अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी ), विनाइल रिकार्ड ( in सन्दर्भ to vinyl, the सामग्री सबसे commonly used बाद परिचय 1950 ), or colloquially, `` a record '', is an एनालॉग sound भंडार medium consisting of a flat disc साथ an inscribed, modulated सर्पिल groove.
The नाली usually starts near the periphery and ends near the बीच of the डिस्क.
फोनोग्राफ रिकॉर्ड are generally वर्णित by their व्यास in inches ( 12-inch, 10-inch, 7-inch, etc. ), the rotational गति at जिससे वे are निभाई ( `` 33 rpm ``, `` 78 '', `` 45 '', etc. ), their time capacity ( `` long playing '' ), उनके reproductive सटीकता, or `` fidelity `` ( `` ऊँची fidelity '', `` Orthophonic '', `` full-range '', etc. ), and the क्रमांक of channels of ऑडियो provided ( `` मोनो ``, `` स्टीरियो ``, `` quadraphonic ``, इत्यादि. ).
फोनोग्राफ रिकॉर्ड were the primary medium प्रयुक्त for music जनन लिये सबसे of the 20th सदी, replacing the फोनोग्राफ cylinder, साथ which it had co-existed, by the 1920s.
By the लेट 1980s, डिजिटल मीडिया था gained a larger market share, और the विनाइल रिकार्ड बाएँ the मुख्यधारा in 1991.
वे continue to be manufactured और बेची in the 21st सदी.
in 2008, nearly 2.9 million इकाई shipped, the सबसे in कोई साल since 1998 and the स्वरूप रै continued to धीरे regain लोकप्रियता.
वे हैं विशेषकर प्रयुक्त by djs और audiophiles for many प्रकार of म्यूज़िक.
As of 2013, विनाइल records continue to be प्रयुक्त लिये distribution.
घासभूमि in the Santa रोजा पठार, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
Grassland in the antelope घाटी, California
The Konza tallgrass prairie in the चकमक Hills of northeastern कान्सास.
A घासभूमि in the फिलीपीन.
An भीतरी Mongolian grassland in the लोगों 's Republic of चीन
Grasslands are क्षेत्रों जहाँ the vegetation is वर्चस्व by grasses ( पोएसी ), however sedge ( cyperaceae ) और rush ( juncaceae ) परिवारों can भी be मिला.
Grasslands occur naturally on सब महाद्वीपों except अंटार्कटिक.
in temperate latitudes, such as northwestern यूरोपीय और the ग्रेट मैदान और California in उत्तर अमेरिका, native grasslands are dominated by perennial गुच्छा grass प्रजाति, whereas in warmer climates सालाना प्रजाति form a वृहद component of the vegetation.
grasslands हैं मिला in सबसे ecoregions of the धरती.
लिये उदाहरण there हैं five स्थलीय ecoregion classifications ( subdivisions ) of the temperate grasslands, savannas, और shrublands biome ( ' ecosystem ' ), जिससे is एक of आठ स्थलीय ecozones of the धरती 's surface.
हिना ( Lawsonia inermis, भी पुकारा henna पेड़ ) or हिना is a flowering संयंत्र, the sole species in the genus Lawsonia in the family Lythraceae.
the अंग्रेज़ी name `` henna '' comes इससे the अरबी ( ala-lc : ḥinnāʾ / pronounced ) or colloquially, loosely pronounced.
The name is भी used लिये डाई preparations derived from the संयंत्र, और for the आर्ट of अस्थाई गोदना आधारित on those dyes.
हिना रै महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि antiquity to डाई स्किन, hair, and fingernails, as खूब as fabrics सहित रेशा, ऊन और leather.
Additionally, the name is misused लिये अन्य स्किन and बाल dyes, such as ब्लैक हिना or neutral henna, जिससे are नहीं derived इससे the संयंत्र.
a पतला फिल्मी is a परत of material ranging from भिन्नों of a nanometer ( monolayer ) to several micrometers in thickness.
इलेक्ट्रॉनिक सेमीकंडक्टर डिवाइस and optical coatings are the प्रमुख applications लाभकारी इससे thin-film construction.
A परिचित अनुप्रयोग of पतला films is the household दर्पण, जिससे typically रै a thin मेटल कोटिंग on the वापस of a चादर of glass to form a reflective interface.
the process of silvering थी once commonly प्रयुक्त to produce mirrors.
A very-thin-film कोटिंग ( कम than a nanometer thick ) is प्रयुक्त to उपज two-way mirrors.
The performance of ऑप्टिकल coatings ( e.g. antireflective, or AR, coatings ) हैं typically उन्नत when the thin-film coating consists of अनेक परतों having varying thicknesses and refractive indices.
Similarly, a periodic structure of alternating पतला films of अलग materials may collectively रूप a so-called superlattice जिससे कारनामे the घटना of quantum कारावास by restricting इलेक्ट्रॉनिक phenomena to two-dimensions.
कार्य is होने किया with ferromagnetic और ferroelectric thin films लिये उपयोग as computer मेमोरी.
It is भी being applied to pharmaceuticals, via thin-film drug delivery.
thin-films हैं प्रयुक्त to उपज thin-film batteries.
Thin films हैं भी used in dye-sensitized सौर cells.
सिरेमिक पतला films are in चौड़ी उपयोग.
The अपेक्षाकृत ऊँची कठोरता और inertness of ceramic materials make this प्रकार of thin कोटिंग of interest लिये सुरक्षा of substrate सामग्री विरूद्ध corrosion, ऑक्सीकरण और wear.
in particular, the use of ऐसे coatings on कटिंग tools can extend the life of ये वस्तुएं by several आदेश of परिमाण.
Research is being done on a new क्लास of thin-film अकार्बनिक oxide materials, called amorphous heavy-metal cation multicomponent oxides, which could be प्रयुक्त to मेक पारदर्शी transistors that are inexpensive, stable, और environmentally benign.
गियर्स of War is a सैन्य विज्ञान fiction third-person शूटर वीडियो game developed by Epic Games और प्रकाशित by microsoft Game Studios.
it थी initially released as an विशेष शीर्षक लिये the एक्सबॉक्स 360 in नवम्बर 2005 in North अमेरिका, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, और सबसे of यूरोपीय और शामिल a `` सीमित Collector 's संस्करण '' साथ added सामग्री और an आर्ट book titled नष्ट Beauty that detailed much of the खेल 's back-story.
despite the initial statements of एक्सबॉक्स 360 exclusivity, a microsoft Windows संस्करण of the खेल was विकसित in conjunction साथ People can मक्खी and released a year later, featuring new सामग्री including अतिरिक्त campaign स्तर, a new एकाधिक game mode, and खेल for खिड़कियाँ Live functionality.
The खेल focuses on the सैनिकों of डेल्टा स्क्वाड as वे wield a हताश, last-ditch attempt to save the बाकी इंसान निवासियों of the fictional ग्रह Sera इससे a relentless और seemingly unstoppable subterranean दुश्मन ज्ञात as the Locust horde.
The खिलाड़ी assumes the role of मार्कस Fenix ( but can also खेल as Dominic सैंटियागो ), a पूर्व कैदी and war-hardened सिपाही.
the खेल is based on the उपयोग of cover और रणनीतिक आग for the खिलाड़ी to advance through the scenarios ; a दूसरी player can play cooperatively through the main अभियान to assist.
The game also सुविधाएँ अनेक online एकाधिक खेल modes for up to eight खिलाड़ी.
Gears of युद्ध sold over तीन million copies in just टेन सप्ताह and थी the fastest-selling video खेल of 2005 as खूब as the second-most निभाई खेल over Xbox सजीव दौरान.
It currently स्टैंड as the 5th best selling एक्सबॉक्स 360 खेल of सब समय.
The खेल रै चूंकि sold over five लाख नक़ल by September 2008.
The game थी well received by आलोचकों, जो praised इसके gameplay and विस्तृत visuals, और it जीती अनेक `` खेल of the Year '' पुरस्कार in 2006.
the success of the खेल रै led to the development of the गियर्स of War franchise, सहित the 2008 sequel गियर्स of युद्ध 2 और इसके follow-up, Gears of War 3, जिससे was released on सितंबर 20, 2011, बाद having initially महरूम set to have महरूम released on अप्रैल 5, 2011, the तिथि upon जिससे Epic खेल ' Cliff Bleszinski was a अतिथि on लेट Night साथ jimmy fallon.
Adaptations to books, कॉमिक्स, as खूब as a विशेषता फिल्मी are to be अपेक्षित.
a Tree grows in ब्रुकलीन is a 1943 अनोखा written by Betty स्मिथ.
the स्टोरी focuses on an irish-american family in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, नई यॉर्क नगर.
the अनोखा is set in the first और second decades of the 20th century.
the किताब was an immense कामयाबी.
the प्रमुख रूपक of the book is the hardy Tree of स्वर्ग, native to चीन और ताईवान, अभी माना invasive, और common in the vacant lots of New York City.
संसार मैप with the intertropical मण्डल highlighted in red.
Tropical जलवायु zones of the धरती where सब twelve महीने have औसत temperatures ऊपर 18 °C ( 64 °f ).
The tropics is a region of the धरती surrounding the equator.
It is सीमित in अक्षांश by the tropic of Cancer in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध at लगभग n और the tropic of मकर in the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध at s ; ये latitudes correspond to the axial tilt of the Earth.
the ऊष्णकटिबन्ध are also referred to as the तीव्र मण्डल और the torrid zone ( देखिए भौगोलिक मण्डल ).
The ऊष्णकटिबन्ध शामिल all the क्षेत्रों on the Earth जहाँ the सूर्य reaches a पाइंट सीधे overhead at least once दौरान the solar साल.
The tropics are विशिष्ट इससे the अन्य climatic और biomatic regions of धरती, the मध्य latitudes and the ध्रुवीय regions on either पक्ष of the भूमध्यरेखीय मण्डल.
For the inxs सोंग, देखिए कया तुम need ( सोंग ).
`` कया तुम Need '' is an episode of the अमरीकी टेलीविज़न anthology series The गोधूलि मण्डल.
It is आधारित on the छोटी स्टोरी of the same नाम by लुईस Padgett ( Henry Kuttner और C. L. मूर ).
playhousesquare, in the क्लीवलैंड Theater ज़िला in downtown Cleveland, Ohio, is the second-largest थिएटर जटिल in the United राज्य, second तभी to New York City 's lincoln बीच ).
constructed in a स्पैन of 19 महीने in the early 1920s, the theaters यहूद subsequently बंद bas, लकिन were revived through a grassroots प्रयत्न.
Their renovation और reopening helped usher in a नई era of downtown पुनरोद्धार in क्लीवलैंड, and थी पुकारा `` एक of the top ten सफलताओं in क्लीवलैंड इतिहास. ''
the ड्राइवर और passenger सामने airbags, बाद having been तैनात, in a अंग्रेजों peugeot 306 car.
an airbag is a गाडी safety यंत्र.
it is an occupant restraint प्रणाली consisting of a flexible fabric लिफाफा or cushion designed to inflate rapidly दौरान an ऑटोमोबाइल collision.
इसके purpose is to cushion occupants during a crash and provide सुरक्षा to their लाशें when they strike आंतरिक objects ऐसे as the परिचालन व्हील or a खिड़की.
Modern vehicles may contain अनेक एयरबैग modules in विभिन्न side and frontal स्थितियाँ of the passenger seating positions, और sensors may तैनात एक or more airbags in an impact zone at variable rates based on the प्रकार, कोण and severity of प्रभाव ; the airbag is designed to तभी inflate in मॉडरेट to कठोर frontal crashes.
airbags हैं normally designed साथ the intention of supplementing the सुरक्षा of an occupant जो is correctly restrained साथ a seatbelt.
Most डिजाइन are inflated through pyrotechnic अर्थात् और can तभी be संचालित एकबार.
नए side-impact एयरबैग मौड्यूल consist of compressed एयर सिलेंडर कि हैं triggered in the event of a पक्ष impact vehicle impact.
the first वाणिज्यिक डिजाइन यहूद introduced in passenger ऑटोमोबाइल during the 1970s साथ सीमित कामयाबी.
Broad commercial अपनाना of airbags occurred in many बाज़ार दौरान the late 1980s and जल्दी 1990s साथ a ड्राइवर एयरबैग, and a सामने यात्री एयरबैग as खूब on कुछ गाड़ियाँ ; और अनेक आधुनिक vehicles अभी include four or more units.
IRS कर फ़ॉर्म हैं used लिये करदाताओं and tax-exempt संगठन to report financial information to the आतंरिक आय Service ( irs ) of the United States.
वे are प्रयुक्त to रपट income, calculate taxes to be सशुल्क to the federal government of the United राज्य, और disclose other सूचना as जरूरी by the आतंरिक Revenue कोड ( IRC ).
वहीँ are over 800 various फ़ॉर्म और schedules.
the best-known of ये is Form 1040 प्रयुक्त by individuals.
in the संयुक्त States, ड्राइवर 's licenses हैं issued by each individual राज्य ( सहित वॉशिंगटन, D.C. और territories ), बल्कि than the federal सरकारी क्युकी of the political concept of federalism.
ड्राइवर हैं सामान्यतः जरूरी to obtain a license from उनके state of निवास और all states recognize प्रत्येक other 's licenses for अस्थाई visitors विषय to सामान्य age आवश्यकताएँ.
a state may also बर्खास्तगी an व्यक्तिगत 's ड्राइविंग privilege within इसके सीमायें लिये ट्रैफ़िक उल्लंघनों.
अनेक राज्य share a common प्रणाली of अनुज्ञा classes, साथ कुछ exceptions, और commercial अनुज्ञा classes हैं standardized by federal विनियमन at 49 CFR part 383.
China रै been the source of many inventions, including the चार ग्रेट आविष्कारों : papermaking, the कम्पास, बारूद, और मुद्रण ( दोनो woodblock and movable प्रकार ).
the सूची नीचे contains ये and अन्य inventions.
the चाइनीज invented technologies involving mechanics, hydraulics, और गणित लागू to horology, metallurgy, खगोलशास्त्र, कृषि, engineering, म्यूज़िक सिद्धान्त, craftsmanship, nautics, और warfare.
By the युद्धरत States काल ( 403–221 bc ), वे had उन्नत metallurgic प्रौद्योगिकी, सहित the धमाका furnace और cupola भट्टी, while the finery forge और puddling process यहूद known by the Han राजवंश ( 202 bc – ad 220 ).
a sophisticated आर्थिक प्रणाली in China दिया जनम to आविष्कारों such as पेपर money दौरान the सोंग Dynasty ( 960–1279 ).
The आविष्कार of gunpowder by the 10th सदी led to an सरणी of inventions such as the fire lance, जमीन मेरा, naval mine, hand तोपों, exploding cannonballs, multistage प्रक्षेपास्त्र, और rocket बम साथ aerodynamic wings and explosive payloads.
साथ the navigational सहायता of the 11th-century compass और ability to steer at high समुद्र साथ the 1st-century sternpost rudder, premodern चाइनीज sailors sailed as far as ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी और Egypt.
in water-powered clockworks, the premodern चाइनीज था used the escapement यांत्रिकी since the 8th सदी और the अंतहीन power-transmitting कड़ी ड्राइव in the 11th century.
They also made विशाल mechanical कठपुतली theaters चलित by waterwheels and carriage पहियों और wine-serving automatons चलित by चप्पू व्हील नौकाएँ.
The contemporaneous peiligang and Pengtoushan संस्कृतियों represent the oldest Neolithic संस्कृतियों of चीन and यहूद formed around 7000 BC.
कुछ of the first inventions of Neolithic, प्रागैतिहासिक चीन include semilunar और rectangular स्टोन knives, स्टोन hoes और spades, the cultivation of बाजरा, राइस and the सोयाबीन, the refinement of sericulture, the भवन of rammed earth structures साथ लाइम -plastered house floors, the creation of the कुम्हार 's wheel, the सृष्टि of pottery साथ cord-mat-basket designs, the creation of pottery tripods और pottery steamers, और the development of ceremonial बरतन और scapulimancy लिये उद्देश्य of भविष्यवाणी.
फ्रांसिस्का ब्रे argues that the domestication of the ox और buffalo during the longshan संस्कृति ( c. 3000–c. 2000 BC ) period, the अनुपस्थिति of longshan-era irrigation or high-yield फसलों, full प्रमाण of Longshan cultivation of dry-land खाद्यान्न crops जिससे दिया ऊँची yields `` तभी जब the मृदा थी carefully cultivated, '' सुझाएँ कि the हल was known at least by the longshan culture काल and explains the high agricultural उत्पादन yields which allowed the rise of Chinese civilization दौरान the शांग Dynasty ( c. 1600–c. 1050 BC ).
साथ later आविष्कारों ऐसे as the multiple-tube seed drill और भारी moldboard आयरन हल, चीन 's agricultural output could sustain a much larger जनसांख्यिकी.
For the उद्देश्य of इस list, inventions are regarded as technological firsts developed in चीन, और as such does नहीं शामिल विदेशी technologies which the चाइनीज acquired through contact, ऐसे as the पवनचक्की इससे the Middle ईस्ट or the दूरदर्शी इससे जल्दी आधुनिक Europe.
It भी करता not include technologies विकसित elsewhere और बाद invented separately by the चाइनीज, ऐसे as the odometer और chain पंप.
वैज्ञानिक, mathematic or natural discoveries, परिवर्तन in नाबालिग concepts of design or style और कलाकारी नवप्रवर्तनों can नहीं be regarded as आविष्कारों और do not appear on the list.
सकल domestic product in 2011 us डॉलर प्रति capita, adjusted for महंगाई and खरीदना शक्ति पैरिटी ( log स्केल ) from 1860 to 2011, साथ population ( disk area ) लिये the US ( पीला ), uk ( orange ), जापानी ( red ), चीन ( red ), और India ( blue ).
Globalization ( or globalisation—see spelling मतभेद ) is the process of international integration arising इससे the इंटरचेंज of संसार दृश्य, उत्पाद, ideas, और other पहलुओं of culture.
put in simple शर्तें, globalization refers to processes कि प्रचार world-wide exchanges of नेशनल and cultural संसाधन.
अग्रिम in परिवहन and दूरसंचार अवसंरचना, including the rise of the अंतरजाल, हैं प्रमुख कारकों in globalization, generating further interdependence of आर्थिक और cultural क्रियाएँ.
Though अनेक विद्वानों प्लेस the origins of वैश्वीकरण in आधुनिक टाइम्स, अन्य trace its इतिहास long पहले the यूरोपीय आयु of डिस्कवरी और voyages to the नई संसार.
कुछ भी ट्रेस the origins to the third millennium BCE.
चूंकि the beginning of the 20th सदी, the pace of वैश्वीकरण रै intensified at a rapid rate, विशेषकर दौरान the पोस्ट ठंडा War era.
The पद globalization has been in increasing उपयोग चूंकि the mid-1980s and विशेषकर चूंकि the mid-1990s.
in 2000, the International Monetary निधि ( IMF ) identified four basic aspects of वैश्वीकरण : trade और transactions, पूंजी और investment आंदोलनों, माइग्रेशन and movement of लोगों and the dissemination of ज्ञान.
Further, पर्यावरणीय चुनौतियां such as जलवायु बदलें, cross-boundary water and एयर प्रदूषण, और over-fishing of the ocean हैं linked with वैश्वीकरण.
globalizing processes affect and are प्रभावित by business और work संगठन, economics, socio-cultural संसाधन, and the प्राकृतिक पर्यावरण.
the replacements is a 2000 American खेल कॉमेडी film निर्देशित by हावर्ड deutch.
It सितारों कियानू Reeves, जीन hackman, और Brooke langton.
An American एयरलाइंस वायुयान takes बंद from dallas/fort Worth अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र.
इस विमानक्षेत्र is the एयरलाइन 's largest hub.
अमरीकी Airlines flies to 79 domestic गंतव्यों and 78 international गंतव्यों in 48 देशों.
( as of दिसम्बर 2012 )
the सूची includes the नगर, देश, the कोड of the International एयर Transport Association ( iata airport code ) and the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO विमानक्षेत्र कोड ), और the विमानक्षेत्र 's name, साथ the एयरलाइन 's hubs, फ़ोकस cities and मौसमी गंतव्यों marked.
the सूची also contains गंतव्यों no longer served by the एयरलाइन, जिससे are चिह्नित as terminated गंतव्यों.
It करता नहीं शामिल गंतव्यों परोसा लिये American एयरलाइंस by its क्षेत्रीय affiliates अमरीकी त्रिभुज Airlines, कार्यपालिका Airlines, and AmericanConnection.
`` day-o ( The Banana नाव सोंग ) '' is a परंपरागत Jamaican mento लोक song, the best-known संस्करण of जिससे थी सुंग by हैरी belafonte और an alternate version interspersed with another jamaican folksong, हिल और Gully सवार, by dame शर्ली bassey.
despite the song 's mento प्रभाव, `` Day-O ( The Banana नाव Song ) '' is widely known as an example of calypso music.
it is a कार्य सोंग, from the पाइंट of view of डॉक मजदूर working the रात्रि shift loading केले onto जहाजों.
Daylight has आइये, the शिफ़्ट is over और they want their कार्य to be गिने up so that वे can go home.
संसार War I ( wwi ) was a वैश्विक war centred in यूरोपीय कि began on 28 जुलाई 1914 and lasted जबतक 11 November 1918.
it थी predominantly called the संसार War or the ग्रेट War इससे इसके occurrence जबतक the start of World War ii in 1939, and the पहला संसार War or संसार युद्ध i thereafter.
it involved सब the संसार 's ग्रेट शक्तियां, जिससे were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the ट्रिपल entente of the संयुक्त Kingdom, फ़्रांस and रूस ) और the सेंट्रल Powers ( originally the ट्रिपल Alliance of Germany, austria-hungary और Italy ; लकिन, as austria–hungary had taken the अप्रिय against the agreement, इटली किया not डालें into the war ).
ये alliances were both reorganised and विस्तारित as more राष्ट्र डाला the युद्ध : इटली, जापानी and the संयुक्त States joined the allies, और the उस्मानी साम्राज्य and Bulgaria the Central शक्तियां.
Ultimately, अधिक than 70 लाख सैन्य कर्मियों, सहित 60 million europeans, यहूद mobilised in one of the largest युद्धों in इतिहास.
More than 9 million combatants were मारे, largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर corresponding improvements in सुरक्षा or गतिशीलता.
it was the fifth- deadliest विरोध in world इतिहास, subsequently paving the way लिये various political परिवर्तन, such as revolutions in अनेक of the nations शामिल.
एक of the long-term causes of the war थी the resurgence of imperialism in the विदेशी policies of the great शक्तियां of यूरोपीय.
More immediately, the हत्या of Archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया, the वारिस to the सिंहासन of Austria-Hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic संकट जब austria-hungary subsequently वितरित an ultimatum to the Kingdom of सर्बिया.
अनेक alliances formed over the पिछला दशकों were invoked.
Within weeks, the प्रमुख शक्तियां were at युद्ध और, via उनके colonies, the conflict जल्द spread around the world.
On 28 July, the austro-hungarians fired the पहला shots of the war as तैयारी लिये the आक्रमण of Serbia.
जबकि the russians mobilised, the germans invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम और Luxembourg on the way to France, providing a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's घोषणा of युद्ध विरूद्ध जर्मनी.
After the जर्मनी कूच on Paris थी brought to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of अपघर्षण साथ a गर्त लकीर that बदला little until 1917.
on the पूर्वी Front, the रूसी फौज was successful विरूद्ध the Austro-Hungarians, but was रोका in इसके invasion of ईस्ट prussia by the Germans.
In नवम्बर the Ottoman Empire joined the war, opening up fronts in the Caucasus, मेसोपोटामिया and the Sinai.
इटली and Bulgaria गई to युद्ध in 1915 and रोमानिया in 1916.
in Russia, the त्सार 's सरकारी collapsed in कूच 1917 and a subsequent क्रान्ति in November brought the Russians to शर्तें with the सेंट्रल शक्तियां.
बाद a 1918 जर्मनी अप्रिय along the western सामने, the allies drove back the Germans in a श्रेणी of successful offensives and अमरीकी शक्तियां began प्रवेश the trenches.
जर्मनी, जिससे had इसके अपना ट्रबल with revolutionaries, सहमत to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
the war ended in विजय लिये the allies.
कार्यक्रम on the घर fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize their जनशक्ति and आर्थिक resources to लड़ो a total युद्ध.
by the end of the war, चार प्रमुख इम्पीरियल powers—the German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and उस्मानी empires—ceased to मौजूद.
The successor राज्य of the पूर्व two lost a ग्रेट राशि of territory, जबकि the latter दो यहूद dismantled entirely.
the map of सेंट्रल यूरोपीय थी redrawn into अनेक smaller राज्य.
the League of राष्ट्र थी formed in the आशा of preventing another ऐसे conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the युद्ध and the breakup of empires, the परखना of Germany 's शिकस्त and समस्याएं साथ the सन्धि of Versailles हैं agreed to be कारकों contributing to World War II.
नर्स जैकी is an अमरीकी श्रेणी कि premiered on June 8, 2009, on showtime, फिल्म सेंट्रल और The फिल्म संजाल.
The series stars Edie Falco as the title अक्षर Jackie Peyton, an emergency department nurse at सब संतो ' Hospital in New यॉर्क नगर.
लिये जैकी, `` प्रत्येक दिन is a ऊँची wire अधिनियम of juggling patients, डॉक्टर, fellow नर्स और उसके own indiscretions. ''
Keeping Up साथ the Kardashians ( often referred to बस as the Kardashians ) is an अमरीकी वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी कि premiered on October 14, 2007, on E !.
It फ़ॉलो the जीवनदान of the Kardashian/Jenner परिवार, including बहनों Kourtney, किम, और khloé कार्दशियन.
the श्रेणी ' कामयाबी has led to the spin-offs कोर्टनी और Kim लो नई यॉर्क, khloé & Lamar, कोर्टनी और khloé Take Miami, और Kourtney and Kim Take Miami.
अफगानिस्तान ( ; ; ), officially the इस्लामी Republic of Afghanistan, is a landlocked sovereign राज्य forming भाग of South Asia, सेंट्रल Asia, और to some extent पश्चिमी एशिया.
it रै a जनसांख्यिकी of around 30 million inhabiting an area of लगभग, making it the 42nd most populous और 41st largest nation in the world.
it is bordered by पाकिस्तानी in the south and the east, इरान in the वेस्ट, तुर्कमेनिस्तान, उज़्बेकिस्तान और ताजिकिस्तान in the उत्तर, and चीन in the दूर पूर्वोत्तर.
Afghanistan has महरूम an प्राचीन फोकल पाइंट of the Silk सड़क and इंसान माइग्रेशन.
Archaeologists have मिला evidence of human habitation from as दूर back as the मध्य paleolithic.
Urban सभ्यता may have begun in the क्षेत्रफल as जल्दी as 3,000 to 2,000 bce.
बैठे at an important geostrategic location that connects the Middle East संस्कृति साथ सेंट्रल एशिया और the Indian subcontinent, the जमीन रै महरूम home to various peoples through the ages और witnessed अनेक military campaigns, notably by Alexander the Great, Genghis खान, और in modern era पश्चिमी forces.
the जमीन also परोसा as a source from जिससे the Greco-Bactrians, kushans, Hephthalites, saffarids, Ghaznavids, ghorids, khiljis, timurids, Mughals, durranis, और others have risen to रूप major empires.
The political इतिहास of the आधुनिक state of अफगानिस्तान begins in 1709, जब the hotaki dynasty थी established in Kandahar followed by Ahmad शाह दुर्रानी 's वृद्धि to शक्ति in 1747.
in the late 19th सदी, अफगानिस्तान became a बफ़र state in the `` Great खेल `` between the अंग्रेजों and Russian empires.
following the 1919 anglo-afghan युद्ध, किंग अमानुल्ला began a European style modernization of the country but was रोका by the ultra-conservatives.
दौरान the Cold युद्ध, after the withdrawal of the British इससे neighboring India in 1947, the संयुक्त राज्य और the सोवियत Union began spreading प्रभाव in Afghanistan, which led to a bloody war between the US-backed मुजाहिदीन शक्तियां and the soviet-backed अफगान सरकारी in which over a लाख afghans खोया उनके जीवनदान.
इस थी followed by the 1990s civil war, the वृद्धि and fall of the extremist तालिबान government and the 2001–present युद्ध.
in December 2001, the United राष्ट्र सुरक्षा परिषद authorized the creation of the International Security सहायता Force ( isaf ) to सहायता maintain सुरक्षा in अफगानिस्तान और assist the करज़ई प्रशासन.
तीन दशकों of युद्ध बना Afghanistan एक of the world 's सबसे खतरनाक देशों, including the largest निर्माता of शरणार्थियों और asylum जरुरतमंदों.
जबकि the अंतरराष्ट्रीय जातियाँ is पुनर्निर्माण war-torn अफगानिस्तान, terrorist समूह such as the हक्कानी संजाल और Hezbi Islami हैं actively शामिल in a देशभर तालिबान -led उग्रवाद, जिससे includes सैंकड़ों of assassinations और suicide हमले.
according to the संयुक्त Nations, the insurgents were responsible for 80 % of civilian casualties in 2011 और 2012.
The अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध ( acw ), also ज्ञात as the युद्ध between the States or simply the सिविल युद्ध ( देखिए नामकरण ), was a सिविल war लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` संघ '' or the `` North '' ) और अनेक दक्षिणी slave राज्य कि declared their secession और formed the confederate राज्य of अमेरिका ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The युद्ध था इसके उत्पत्ति in the issue of गुलामी, विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन of slavery into the western territories.
Foreign powers किया not intervene.
After four सालो of खूनी कॉम्बैट कि बाएँ over 600,000 soldiers dead और destroyed much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना, the confederacy collapsed, slavery थी abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring नेशनल एकता और guaranteeing rights to the freed स्लेव began.
in the 1860 presidential चुनाव, Republicans, led by अब्राहम lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त राज्य ' territories.
lincoln जीती, लकिन before उसके उद्घाटन on कूच 4, 1861, सात cotton-based स्लेव राज्य formed the confederacy.
outgoing Democratic अध्यक्ष जेम्स Buchanan and the आवक republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural पता घोषित his administration would नहीं initiate सिविल युद्ध.
आठ बाकी स्लेव states continued to अस्वीकृत काल्स for secession.
Confederate शक्तियां जब्त numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the confederacy.
a सलाम सम्मेलन failed to ढूँढें a सुलह, और दोनो sides prepared for युद्ध.
the confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय countries were so dependent on `` किंग कपास `` that वे would intervene ; none did और none पहचाना the new Confederate राज्य of अमेरिका.
hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when confederate शक्तियां fired upon Fort sumter, a कुंजी फोर्ट आयोजित by संघ सैनिकों in दक्षिण कैरोलिना.
lincoln पुकारा for प्रत्येक state to provide troops to retake the फोर्ट ; consequently, four अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the Confederacy, bringing उनके total to ग्यारह.
The Union soon नियंत्रित the किनारा राज्य and स्थापित a नवल blockade कि अबोध the दक्षिणी अर्थव्यवस्था.
the पूर्वी थिएटर थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
the पतझड़ 1862 confederate अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a Union राज्य ) ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट at the बैटल of antietam, dissuading British हस्तक्षेप.
Lincoln issued the emancipation उदघोषणा, जिससे बना समाप्ति slavery a युद्ध goal.
To the वेस्ट, by summer 1862 the संघ destroyed the Confederate river navy, तब much of their पश्चिमी armies, and the Union at Vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in two at the मिसिसिपी River.
In 1863, Robert E. ली 's confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the बैटल of Gettysburg.
पश्चिमी सफलताओं led to ulysses S. ग्रान्ट command of सब संघ सेना in 1864.
in the पश्चिमी थिएटर, विलियम T. Sherman drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर अटलांटा and marched to the समुद्र, destroying confederate अवसंरचना along the way.
The संघ marshaled the संसाधन और जनशक्ति to आक्रमण the confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश, और could afford to fight battles of अपघर्षण through the overland अभियान towards Richmond, the confederate capital.
the defending Confederate army failed, leading to Lee 's surrender to ग्रान्ट at appomattox अदालत House on April 9, 1865.
the अमरीकी सिविल War थी एक of the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक wars.
railroads, the telegraph, steamships, और mass-produced weapons यहूद employed extensively.
the mobilization of civilian कारखानों, खानों, shipyards, बैंको, transportation और food आपूर्तियाँ सब foreshadowed World War I.
it remains the deadliest युद्ध in अमरीकी इतिहास, resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined क्रमांक of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the मौत टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of all उत्तरी males 20–45 years old, and 30 प्रतिशत of सब Southern white males aged 18–40.
लागत of goods sold ( cogs ) refer to the inventory costs of those goods a कारोबार रै sold दौरान a particular काल.
लागत हैं संबद्ध with particular goods using one of अनेक formulas, including specific identification, first-in first-out ( FIFO ), or औसत लागत.
लागत शामिल सब costs of खरीदें, लागत of conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to उनके उपस्थित स्थान and कंडीशन.
लागत of goods made by the कारोबार शामिल material, मजदूर, and आबंटित ओवरहेड.
the लागत of those goods नहीं yet बेची are deferred as लागत of inventory until the inventory is बेची or लिखा bas in value.
freak Lunchbox कैंडी स्टोर in Halifax, नोवा स्कोटिया
A confectionery स्टोर ( more commonly referred to as a मीठी shop in the United Kingdom, a कैंडी स्टोर in the उत्तर America, or a lolly दूकान in Australia ) बिकता confectionery और is प्रायः targeted to children.
सबसे confectionery स्टोर्स हैं filled साथ an assortment of मिठाई दूर larger than a पंसारी or convenience store could accommodate.
वे often offer a selection of बूढ़ा fashioned ट्रीट, and sweets इससे अलग देशों.
Very प्रायः unchanged in layout since उनके inception, confectioneries are ज्ञात लिये उनके वार्मिंग और nostalgic महसूस.
the गाँव of Pateley सेतु claims to have the oldest confectionery स्टोर in इंग्लैण्ड.
The oldest मीठी दूकान in इंग्लैण्ड, in the गाँव of Pateley Bridge
ओक्लाहोमा ( ) ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa, cay : Gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a state स्तिथ in West South सेंट्रल संयुक्त राज्य.
ओक्लाहोमा is the 20th most extensive और the 28th सबसे populous of the 50 संयुक्त States.
the state 's name is निकला इससे the choctaw words okla और humma, अर्थ `` red people '', और it is ज्ञात informally by इसके nickname, The Sooner State.
Formed by the combination of Oklahoma territory और भारतीय territory on नवम्बर 16, 1907, ओक्लाहोमा was the 46th राज्य to डालें the संघ.
इसके निवासियों are ज्ञात as Oklahomans or, informally `` okies '', और its capital and largest नगर is ओक्लाहोमा नगर.
A प्रमुख निर्माता of प्राकृतिक गैस, oil, और कृषि, Oklahoma relies on an economic base of विमानन, energy, telecommunications, और जैवप्रौद्योगिकी.
It has one of the तीव्रतम growing economies in the nation, रैंकिंग among the शीर्ष states in per capita आय विकास और सकल domestic उत्पाद growth.
ओक्लाहोमा City and तुलसा serve as ओक्लाहोमा 's प्राथमिक economic anchors, with nearly दो तिहाई of oklahomans living भीतर उनके महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रों.
साथ small पहाड़ ranges, प्रेयरी, mesas, और eastern वनों, most of Oklahoma झूठ in the Great Plains और the U.S. आंतरिक हाइलैंड्स —a region विशेषकर prone to कठोर weather.
In addition to having a prevalence of English, German, स्कॉटिश, Irish और देशी American ancestry, more than 25 Native अमरीकी languages हैं बोला in ओक्लाहोमा, दूसरी only to कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
ओक्लाहोमा is located on a confluence of तीन major American सांस्कृतिक regions और historically परोसा as a रूट for cattle ड्राइव, a गंतव्य लिये दक्षिणी settlers, और a government-sanctioned territory for देशी अमेरिकी.
stacked and standing car टायर
a टायर ( or tyre ) is a ring-shaped covering that fits around a व्हील 's रिम to protect it and enable बेहतर गाडी प्रदर्शन.
Most टायर, such as those for ऑटोमोबाइल और साइकिल, provide कर्षण between the गाडी और the सड़क जबकि providing a flexible cushion कि absorbs शॉक.
the materials of आधुनिक न्यूमेटिक tires are synthetic रबर, प्राकृतिक rubber, fabric और तार, along साथ कार्बन black and अन्य रासायनिक यौगिकों.
वे consist of a tread और a body.
the tread provides कर्षण while the देह provides containment for a मात्रा of compressed air.
पहले rubber was developed, the पहला versions of tires यहूद बस bands of मेटल कि fitted around लकड़ी पहियों to prevent पहनें और tear.
Early रबर tires were ठोस ( नहीं न्यूमेटिक ).
Today, the बहुमत of tires हैं न्यूमेटिक inflatable structures, comprising a doughnut-shaped देह of cords और wires encased in rubber और generally भर with संपीडित एयर to form an inflatable cushion.
Pneumatic tires are used on अनेक प्रकार of vehicles, including cars, bicycles, motorcycles, ट्रक, earthmovers, और वायुयान.
मेटल टायर हैं स्टिल used on locomotives और railcars, और solid रबर ( or अन्य पॉलिमर ) टायर हैं still प्रयुक्त in various non-automotive applications, ऐसे as कुछ casters, कार्ट, lawnmowers, और wheelbarrows.
Dr. Joseph Warren ( जून 11, 1741 – जून 17, 1775 ) was an अमरीकी doctor who played a leading भूमिका in American patriot organizations in Boston in जल्दी days of the American Revolution, eventually सेवारत as अध्यक्ष of the क्रांतिकारी मैसाचुसेट्स प्रांतीय Congress.
Warren enlisted पॉल Revere और विलियम dawes on April 18, 1775, to छोड़ बोस्टन and स्प्रेड the alarm that the British garrison in बोस्टन थी सेटिंग आउट to रेड the town of Concord and arrest विद्रोही नेताओ John hancock और सैमुएल एडम्स.
Warren participated in the अगला day 's लड़ाइयों of lexington और concord, जिससे are commonly माना to be the opening engagements of the American Revolutionary War.
वारेन था been commissioned a प्रमुख General in the उपनिवेश 's मिलिशिया shortly before the जून 17, 1775 बैटल of बंकर हिल.
बल्कि than exercising his rank, वारेन served in the battle as a private soldier, और थी मारे in combat जब अंग्रेजों troops stormed the redoubt atop Breed 's हिल.
उसके death, immortalized in जॉन trumbull 's पेंटिंग, The मौत of सामान्य वारेन at the बैटल of बंकर 's हिल, जून 17, 1775, galvanized the rebel शक्तियां, और he रै been स्मरणीय in many place names in the संयुक्त States.
STM चित्र of self-assembled supramolecular chains of the सशुल्क semiconductor quinacridone on ग्रेफाइट.
an सशुल्क सेमीकंडक्टर is an organic सामग्री with सेमीकंडक्टर गुण, कि is, साथ an विद्युत चालकता between कि of insulators and that of धातुओं.
सिंगल molecules, छोटी कड़ी ( oligomers ) और सशुल्क polymers can be semiconductive.
semiconducting छोटी molecules ( aromatic hydrocarbons ) शामिल the polycyclic खुशबूदार यौगिकों pentacene, anthracene, और rubrene.
Polymeric organic semiconductors शामिल बहु ( 3-hexylthiophene ), बहु ( p-phenylene vinylene ), as well as polyacetylene and इसके डेरिवेटिव.
There are दो प्रमुख अतिव्यापी वर्ग of organic semiconductors.
ये हैं सशुल्क charge-transfer देवालय and विभिन्न linear-backbone conductive polymers निकला from polyacetylene.
रैखिक रीढ़ organic semiconductors शामिल polyacetylene itself and इसके derivatives polypyrrole, और polyaniline.
at तनिक locally, charge-transfer complexes प्रायः exhibit similar conduction mechanisms to अकार्बनिक semiconductors.
ऐसे mechanisms arise इससे the उपस्थिति of hole और इलेक्ट्रॉन conduction परतों अलग by a बैंड gap.
जबकि ऐसे क्लासिक mechanisms हैं महत्वपूर्ण locally, as साथ अकार्बनिक amorphous semiconductors, tunnelling, स्थानीयकृत राज्य, mobility गैप, और phonon -assisted hopping भी significantly contribute to conduction, particularly in polyacetylenes.
जैसे अकार्बनिक semiconductors, सशुल्क semiconductors can be doped.
Organic semiconductors susceptible to doping such as polyaniline ( Ormecon ) and हैं भी ज्ञात as सशुल्क धातुओं.
Typical current वाहक in सशुल्क semiconductors are holes और electrons in π-bonds.
लगभग all organic solids हैं insulators.
लकिन when उनके constituent अणुओं have π-conjugate systems, electrons can मूव via π-electron cloud overlaps, विशेषकर by hopping, tunnelling और सम्बन्धित mechanisms.
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and phthalocyanine salt crystals हैं उदाहरण of this प्रकार of सशुल्क सेमीकंडक्टर.
मुख्यतः due to कम mobility, भी unpaired electrons may be stable in charge-transfer देवालय.
ऐसे unpaired electrons can फलन as वर्तमान carriers.
इस प्रकार of semiconductor is भी प्राप्त by pairing an electron दाता molecule with an electron acceptor अणु.
मादा ejaculation is the expulsion of fluid by इंसान females इससे the paraurethral नलिकाएं through and around the मादा urethra during or before an orgasm.
It is also ज्ञात colloquially as gushing or squirting, हालांकि these are considered to be अलग phenomena in कुछ research publications.
the सटीक सोर्स और प्रकृति of the द्रव continue to be a topic of बहस among चिकित्सा पेशेवर, जिससे is also related to doubts over the अस्तित्व of the G-Spot.
the फीफा महिलाओं 's World कप is an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ football प्रतियोगिता contested by the वरिष्ठ women 's नेशनल टीमों of the सदस्यों of fédération internationale de Football संघ ( फीफा ), the खेल 's वैश्विक शासी देह.
The चैंपियनशिप has महरूम awarded प्रत्येक चार years since the inaugural tournament in 1991.
जापानी won the 2011 tournament in a penalty गोलीबारी.
The वर्तमान format of the टूर्नामेंट involves 16 टीमों स्पर्धा लिये the title at venues within the मेजबान nation ( s ) over a काल of परिचय three सप्ताह ; – इस phase is often called the संसार कप फाइनल.
a qualification phase, which फिलहाल takes प्लेस over the preceding तीन years, is प्रयुक्त to determine जिससे teams qualify for the टूर्नामेंट together with the मेजबान nation ( s ).
the फीफा महिलाओं 's संसार कप is recognized as the सबसे important अंतरराष्ट्रीय competition in women 's फ़ुटबॉल और is निभाई amongst महिलाओं 's national फ़ुटबॉल टीमों of the member states of फीफा, the खेल 's वैश्विक शासी देह.
the पहला महिलाओं 's संसार Cup tournament, named the Women 's World Championship, थी held in 1991, sixty-one सालो after the मेन 's first फीफा संसार Cup tournament in 1930.
The छह संसार कप tournaments have been जीती by चार different national teams.
the अगला संसार Cup होगा be hosted by कनाडा in 2015.
scorpions is a young adult novel लिखा by वाल्टर डीन Myers, पहला प्रकाशित in the United States by हार्पर & Row on June 20, 1988.
सामने पेज of a 17th सदी Hebrew बाइबल by Joseph Athias, now at Beth hatefutsoth, Israel
'Son of man ' is the translation of विभिन्न Hebrew and यूनानी phrases प्रयुक्त in दोनो the यहूदी बाइबल और the नई वसीयत.
it has diverse meanings, ranging इससे a normal इंसान being to a prophesied अनन्त, divine शासक.
The Hebrew अभिव्यक्ति `` बेटे of man '' ( בן–אדם i.e. ben-'adam ) appears one सौ और सात times in the Hebrew बाइबल.
इस is the सबसे आम यहूदी निर्माण लिये the singular but is प्रयुक्त mostly in Ezekiel ( 93 times ) and 14 times elsewhere.
in thirty दो मामले the phrase appears in इंटरमीडिएट बहुवचन form `` बेटे of मेन '', i.e. इंसान beings.
as generally interpreted by यहूदियों, it denotes humankind generally.
in the koine यूनानी of the नई वसीयत, `` the बेटे of man '' is invariably used as `` ὁ υἱὸς τοὺ ἀνθρώπου '' with a definite आलेख.
The उपयोग of the definite आलेख in `` the बेटे of man '' in the Christian gospels is अनोखा, और पहले इसके उपयोग वहीँ, no records of its उपयोग in कोई of the surviving यूनानी दस्तावेज़ of प्राचीनता मौजूद.
Geza vermes has stated कि `` the बेटे of man '' in the ईसाई gospels is unrelated to यहूदी बाइबल usages.
In Christian उपयोग, unlike the Son of God title, which रै महरूम an अनिवार्य तत्व of Christian creeds since the Apostolic आयु, the उदघोषणा of `` यीशु as the Son of man '' has never महरूम an आलेख of faith in Christianity.
The interpretation of the use of `` the बेटे of man '' in the New वसीयत has remained चुनौतीपूर्ण और बाद 150 सालो of debate no सर्वसम्मति on the समस्या रै उभरा among विद्वानों.
निपुण of foxhounds लीड the फ़ील्ड from powderham Castle in Devon, England, साथ the hounds in सामने.
फॉक्स hunting is an activity involving the tracking, chase, और sometimes killing of a fox, traditionally a रेड फॉक्स, by trained foxhounds or other सैंट hounds, and a समूह of निहत्थे अनुसरणकर्ता led by a master of foxhounds, जो follow the hounds on foot or on horseback.
फॉक्स शिकार originated in the form practised until recently in the United Kingdom in the 16th century, लकिन is practised all over the world, including in Australia, कनाडा, फ़्रांस, आयरलैंड, Italy और the संयुक्त राज्य.
in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, the term also refers to the शिकार of foxes साथ firearms समान to spotlighting or deer hunting.
in much of the संसार शिकार in सामान्य is understood to relate to any game animals or हथियार ( e.g., deer शिकार with धनुष और तीर ) ; in Britain and आयरलैंड, `` शिकार '' बगैर योग्यता implies फॉक्स शिकार ( or अन्य forms of hunting साथ हाउंडs- beagling, स्टैग शिकार, मिंक शिकार, खीचें hunting or शिकार the साफ बूट ) as वर्णित here.
the खेल is controversial, विशेषकर in the uk, जहाँ it थी बैन in स्कॉटलैंड in 2002, और in England and Wales in नवम्बर 2004 ( विधि enforced from February 2005 ), हालांकि shooting foxes as vermin remained legal.
Proponents of फॉक्स शिकार दृश्य it as an important भाग of rural संस्कृति और useful लिये reasons of संरक्षण और pest कंट्रोल, जबकि प्रतिद्वंद्वियों argue कि it is बेदर्द और अनावश्यक.
तम्बाकू advertising is the विज्ञापन of tobacco products or उपयोग ( typically सिगरेट धूम्रपान ) by the तम्बाकू industry through a किस्में of मीडिया including sponsorship, particularly of sporting कार्यक्रम.
it is now one of the सबसे अत्यधिक regulated फ़ॉर्म of marketing.
कुछ or सब forms of तम्बाकू विज्ञापन are बैन in many देशों.
बल्ली Technologies, inc. is a निर्माता of स्लॉट machines और other gaming technology आधारित in लास वेगास, Nevada.
the company was संस्थापित in 1968 as उन्नत Patent Technology.
It eventually बदला इसके नाम to गठबंधन Gaming और acquired, in 1996, बल्ली गेमिंग International, a पूर्व प्रभाग of Bally निर्माण.
In 2006, the संपूर्ण company अपनाया the Bally नाम, a ट्रेडमार्क कि originated in 1932 by the Bally निर्माण निगम.
gustave doré 's engravings illustrated the दैवी Comedy ( 1861–1868 ) ; यहाँ, दांते is lost in canto 1 of the Inferno.
Inferno ( इतालवी लिये `` नरक `` ) is the first भाग of Dante एलीगियरी 's 14th-century epic कविता Divine कॉमेडी.
it is followed by purgatorio और Paradiso.
It is an allegory telling of the यात्रा of दांते through Hell, हिदायत by the रोमन कवि Virgil.
In the कविता, Hell is depicted as nine circles of suffering स्तिथ भीतर the धरती.
allegorically, the Divine Comedy represents the यात्रा of the आत्मा towards परमेश्वर, साथ the inferno describing the मान्यता और अस्वीकृति of sin.
Smirnoff is a ब्रांड of वोदका स्वामित्व and उत्पादित by the अंग्रेजों कम्पनी diageo.
the Smirnoff brand began साथ a vodka डिस्टिलरी संस्थापित in मास्को by Pyotr arsenievich Smirnov ( 1831–1898 ).
it is अभी वितरित in 130 देशों.
It is उत्पादित in अनेक देशों including इण्डिया, आयरलैंड, इटली, the संयुक्त किंगडम and the संयुक्त States.
Smirnoff उत्पाद शामिल vodka, flavoured vodka, and malt पेय.
In कूच 2006, Diageo North America claimed that स्मरनॉफ वोदका थी the best-selling आसुत स्पिरिट ब्रांड in the world.
बिग Brown ( foaled अप्रैल 10, 2005 in केंटकी ) is a रिटायर्ड champion अमरीकी thoroughbred racehorse and winner of the 2008 केंटकी Derby and 2008 Preakness Stakes.
Bred by dr. Gary B. Knapp 's monticule खेतो in Lexington, Kentucky, he जीती उसके first पाँच रेस starts.
he थी sired by ग्रेड III winner Boundary, a बेटे of उत्तर अमरीकी चैंपियन sire danzig, a बेटे of उत्तरी Dancer.
Big भूरा 's बांध was mien, भी a पोती of उत्तरी नर्तकी through उसके sire, nureyev.
the Serenity दुआ is the आम name for an originally बेनाम prayer by the अमरीकी theologian Reinhold Niebuhr ( 1892–1971 ).
It has महरूम अपनाया by alcoholics बेनाम और अन्य twelve-step programs.
the best-known form is : God, grant me the serenity to accept the बाते i can नहीं change,
the courage to change the बाते i can,
And अक्ल to know the अंतर.
The घोषणा और Resolves of the पहला Continental कॉंग्रेस ( भी ज्ञात as the घोषणा of Colonial अधिकारों, or the Declaration of अधिकारों ), थी a बयान अपनाया by the पहला Continental कॉंग्रेस on अक्तूबर 14, 1774, in जवाब to the Intolerable Acts passed by the British Parliament.
The घोषणा outlined औपनिवेशिक objections to the असहनीय अधिनियमों, listed a colonial विधेयक of rights, और provided a detailed सूची of grievances.
It थी समान to the घोषणा of Rights और Grievances, passed by the स्टैम्प अधिनियम कॉंग्रेस a decade earlier.
The घोषणा concluded साथ an outline of कॉंग्रेस 's plans : to डालें into a बहिष्कार of British व्यापार ( the महाद्वीपीय संघ ) जबतक their grievances were redressed, to publish पता to the people of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन and British अमेरिका, और to भेजें a petition to the King.
Pulse दबाव is the दबाव कि is लगा जब अहसास the pulse.
Measured in millimeters of पारा ( mmhg ), the pressure अंतर between the systolic और diastolic pressures is the दबाव बदलें to बनाएँ the पल्स, which is the pulse pressure.
If resting blood दबाव is ( systolic/diastolic ) 120/80 millimeters of पारा ( mmHg ), पल्स दबाव is 40.
the पहाड़ियाँ is a reality टेलीविज़न series जिससे originally aired on एमटीवी इससे May 31, 2006 until जुलाई 13, 2010.
The show uses a reality television स्वरूप, following the निजी जीवनदान of several यंग वयस्कों जीना in Los Angeles, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, लकिन tends towards a कथा स्वरूप अधिक commonly मिला in scripted जाति ऐसे as soap operas.
The श्रेणी originally followed the personal life of former Laguna बीच स्टार लॉरेन कोनराड and her friends ' नई जीवनदान in Los एंजिल्स.
बाद पाँच सीज़न, Conrad बाएँ the श्रेणी और थी replaced by another former लगुना बीच स्टार, kristin cavallari, beginning in the दूसरी half of the पांचवां ऋतु.
the series concluded at the end of the sixth ऋतु.
Entertainment Weekly ranked The Hills 82nd on उनके सूची of `` The 100 बेहतरीन Shows of the Last 25 सालो, '' stating that the श्रेणी थी a `` New क्लासिक. ''
AOL tv called it TV 's Biggest Guilty ख़ुशी.
the series premiered in अनुप्रयोग in the fall of 2009 alongside लगुना बीच : the रियल नारंगी काउंटी.
In poker, ख़राब beat is a subjective पद लिये a हाथ in which a player साथ what appear to be strong ताश nevertheless loses.
it most प्रायः occurs where एक player bets the clearly stronger हाथ and their प्रतिद्वन्दी makes a poor कॉल that eventually `` हिट्स '' और विन्स.
वहीँ is no सर्वसम्मति among पोकर खिलाड़ी as to what exactly constitutes a bad ताल और प्रायः खिलाड़ी होगा disagree परिचय whether a particular hand थी a ख़राब ताल.
the goldfish ( carassius auratus auratus ) is a freshwater fish in the family Cyprinidae of अनुक्रम cypriniformes.
it थी one of the earliest मछली to be domesticated, और is एक of the सबसे commonly kept एक्वेरियम मछली.
a अपेक्षाकृत small member of the कार्प family ( जिससे also includes the koi कार्प और the crucian carp ), the goldfish is a domesticated version of a less-colorful कार्प ( Carassius auratus ) देशी to east एशिया.
it थी पहला domesticated in China more than a हजार years पहले, और several पृथक breeds have चूंकि been विकसित.
goldfish breeds vary greatly in आकार, देह shape, fin configuration और coloration ( विभिन्न combinations of white, पीला, orange, रेड, brown, और black हैं known ).
uncooked rouladen
rouladen ( or Rinderroulade, singular : roulade ) is a जर्मनी meat roulade usually consisting of बेकन, प्याज, mustard and अचार wrapped in thinly sliced beef जिससे is तब पकाया.
In some देशों, the roulade is भी known as `` बीफ ज़ैतून ''.
बीफ or veal is प्रयुक्त as meat though some food विद्वानों tend to मानना that the original version थी probably venison or पोर्क, और पोर्क is स्टिल popular in some क्षेत्रों.
The beef rouladen as we जान उन्हें आज have become लोकप्रिय over the पिछला सदी.
the काटें is usually topside बीफ or silverside चूंकि इस is the cheaper काटें.
the अधिक महंगी संस्करण होता be the round स्टीक, भी ज्ञात as rump steak.
the meat is cut into विशाल, thin स्लाइस.
The filling is a मिश्रण of smoked और पकाया पोर्क पेट, chopped प्याज और कटा अचार ( gurken ) जिससे is at टाइम्स varied by adding minced मांस, सॉसेज meat, pine nuts and सरसों.
The मिश्रण varies from region to प्रदेश.
Rouladen are traditionally परोसा लिये डिनर.
Red वाइन is प्रायः served साथ इस डिश.
ठेठ eukaryotic कोशिका.
सेल्यूलर respiration is the set of the metabolic प्रतिक्रियाएँ और प्रक्रियाओं that लो प्लेस in the कोशिकाएं of organisms to convert biochemical उर्जा from nutrients into एडीनोसिन triphosphate ( ATP ), और तब release waste products.
the प्रतिक्रियाएँ शामिल in श्वसन are catabolic reactions, which break large अणुओं into छोटी ones, releasing उर्जा in the प्रक्रम as कमजोर so-called `` high-energy '' bonds हैं replaced by stronger bonds in the उत्पाद.
श्वसन is एक of the कुंजी तरीके a cell gains useful energy to ईंधन सेल्यूलर activity.
सेल्यूलर respiration is considered an ऊष्माक्षेपी redox प्रतिक्रिया.
the overall प्रतिक्रिया is broken into many smaller ones जब it occurs in the देह, सबसे of जिससे हैं रेडॉक्स प्रतिक्रियाएँ themselves.
हालांकि technically, सेल्यूलर respiration is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया, it clearly does नहीं resemble one when it occurs in a जीना cell.
This अंतर is because it occurs in अनेक पृथक कदम.
जबकि the overall प्रतिक्रिया is a दहन reaction, no सिंगल प्रतिक्रिया that comprises it is a combustion reaction.
nutrients कि are commonly प्रयुक्त by एनिमल and संयंत्र cells in respiration include sugar, अमीनो acids and वसीय acids, और a आम oxidizing एजेंट ( electron acceptor ) is आणविक ऑक्सीजन ( o2 ).
the energy stored in ATP ( इसके third फास्फेट समूह is weakly बंधुआ to the बाकी of the अणु and is cheaply टूटा allowing stronger bonds to रूप, thereby transferring उर्जा for use by the cell ) can तब be used to ड्राइव प्रक्रियाओं requiring उर्जा, सहित biosynthesis, locomotion or transportation of अणुओं आरपार cell झिल्लियों.
Countries by 2011 जीडीपी ( नाममात्र ) according to the सीआईए संसार Factbook.
This आलेख शामिल a list of देशों in the संसार sorted by their सकल घरेलू product ( GDP ), the मार्केट value of सब final goods और services from a स्वदेश in a दिए साल.
the GDP डालर estimates प्रस्तुत यहाँ are calculated at market or government official exchange दरों.
Several economies जिससे are not माना to be देशों ( संसार, the EU, and some निर्भर territories ) are शामिल in the lists because वे appear in the स्त्रोत.
ये economies हैं नहीं क्रमित in the चार्ट यहाँ, लकिन are listed where applicable.
the figures प्रस्तुत यहाँ do not take into account मतभेद in the cost of living in अलग देशों, और the परिणाम can vary greatly from one साल to another based on fluctuations in the exchange दरों of the देश 's currency.
Such fluctuations may बदलें a देश 's रैंकिंग इससे एक साल to the अगला, भी हालांकि वे प्रायः make छोटी or no difference to the standard of जीना of its जनसांख्यिकी.
Therefore ये figures should be प्रयुक्त with सावधानी.
कुछ countries/regions may have नागरिकों जिससे हैं on औसत धनवान.
ये countries/regions could appear in this सूची as having a छोटी जीडीपी.
इस would be क्युकी the country/region सूचीबद्ध has a छोटी population, और इसलिए छोटी total economy ; the जीडीपी is गणना as the population टाइम्स the wealth प्रति capita.
comparisons of national wealth are also frequently बना on the basis of purchasing शक्ति पैरिटी ( ppp ), to समायोजन for differences in the लागत of जीना in अलग countries.
( See List of देशों by GDP ( ppp ) )
ppp largely removes the exchange रेट problem, but has its अपना drawbacks ; it करता नहीं प्रतिबिंबित the मान of आर्थिक आउटपुट in अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार, और it also requires more estimation than nominal जीडीपी.
On the whole, ppp प्रति capita figures हैं अधिक narrowly स्प्रेड than nominal जीडीपी प्रति capita figures.
the first list includes data compiled by the United Nations Statistics Division for 2011.
The दूसरी सूची largely includes data ( अनुमान ) compiled by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मौद्रिक Fund for 2012.
the तीसरा list shows the संसार Bank 's mostly 2011 estimates, और the fourth list शामिल mostly 2012 estimates from the सीआईए World factbook.
Lapping is a machining process, in जिससे two surfaces are मला साथ with an abrasive between them, by hand गति or by रास्ता of a machine.
This can लो two फ़ॉर्म.
the पहला प्रकार of lapping ( traditionally पुकारा पीस ), typically involves रगड़ a brittle सामग्री such as glass against a surface such as iron or कांच itself ( भी ज्ञात as the `` lap '' or पीस औजार ) साथ an अक्खड़ such as aluminum oxide, जौहरियों 's रूज, optician 's rouge, emery, सिलिकॉन carbide, diamond, etc., in between them.
इस produces microscopic conchoidal fractures as the अक्खड़ rolls about between the दो सतहों और removes material इससे both.
the अन्य रूप of lapping involves a softer material such as पिच or a ceramic for the lap, which is `` charged '' with the अक्खड़.
the lap is तब used to काटें a harder material—the workpiece.
The अक्खड़ embeds within the softer सामग्री जिससे holds it और permits it to score आरपार and cut the harder सामग्री.
Taken to a finer limit, इस will उपज a polished surface such as साथ a पॉलिशिंग cloth on an ऑटोमोबाइल, or a पॉलिशिंग cloth or polishing pitch upon glass or स्टील.
लिया to the ultimate सीमा, साथ the सहायता of सटीक interferometry और specialized पॉलिशिंग machines or skilled hand polishing, lensmakers can उपज सतहों that हैं चपटा to बेहतर than 30 nanometers.
इस is एक बीसवीं of the wavelength of लाइट from the commonly used 632.8 nm helium neon laser light source.
सतहों इस चपटा can be molecularly bonded ( optically contacted ) by bringing उन्हें together under the सही शर्तें.
( This is नहीं the same as the wringing प्रभाव of Johansson blocks, although it is similar ).
the term `` अमेरिका 's Team '' is a लोकप्रिय nickname in the United राज्य that refers to the Dallas Cowboys in the नेशनल Football लीग.
The उपनाम originated साथ the team 's 1978 हाइलाइट फिल्मी, जहाँ the narrator opens साथ the following introduction : the पद is पहचाना and often प्रयुक्त by media outlets, सहित ESPN, याहू !, एचबीओ Sports, और खेल illustrated.
my Babysitter 's a पिशाच ( फ्रेंच : Ma gardienne est un पिशाच ) is a 2011 कनाडाई television series, आधारित on the television फिल्मी of the वही name.
in कनाडा, the श्रेणी premiered in फ्रेंच on télétoon on फ़रवरी 28, 2011, in अंग्रेज़ी on Teletoon on March 14, 2011, and on डिज़्नी Channel in the संयुक्त States on June 27, 2011.
the show थी created by Fresh TV, creators of 6teen और Total नाटक.
the दिखाएँ फ़ॉलो ethan Morgan ( मैथ्यू नाईट ), जो, in the टेलीविज़न फिल्मी, learns कि उसके दाई Sarah ( Vanessa मॉर्गन ) is a पिशाच.
in the film, he learns he is समर्थ to have visions and उसके best dost बेनी वीयर ( Atticus Mitchell ) is a spellmaster.
the श्रेणी फ़ॉलो the तीन as they लो on अलौकिक शक्तियां और have adventures, with occasional सहायता इससे fellow vampires रोरी ( cameron कैनेडी ) और Erica ( Kate Todd ), जबकि dealing with the troubles of नियमित ऊँची स्कूल जीवन.
A दूसरी ऋतु थी confirmed to start production in September 2011 and it first premiered on डिज़्नी Channel on June 29, 2012, it premiered on Teletoon September 6, 2012.
télétoon प्रारंभ featuring ऋतु 2 sneak-peak एपीसोड on October 28, 2012 और premiered it on जनवरी 10, 2013
Dodge B Series यूटिलिटी circa 1950, चलित by अल्बर्ट Namatjira
A pickup ट्रक or pick-up, प्रायः simply referred to as a पिकअप, is a लाइट motor गाडी with an open-top, rear कार्गो क्षेत्रफल ( bed ).
in उत्तर America, the पद पिकअप is used लिये light ट्रक साथ a lighter duty chassis and factory built, एकीकृत bed, as खूब as लिये coupé utility वाहनों, प्रायः आधारित on a personal car chassis, but भी प्रायः on a खास समर्पित chassi लिये ऐसे उपयोग.
Some देशों have उनके own शर्तें similar to pickup, such as ute in Australia और New जीलैंड, or bakkie in दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी.
विशाल पिकअप trucks हैं somewhat rare in यूरोपीय, जहाँ vans and लाइट lorries हैं commonly प्रयुक्त लिये similar भूमिकाएँ.
The अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य of America ( potus ) is the head of राज्य और head of सरकारी of the संयुक्त States.
the अध्यक्ष लीड the कार्यपालिका शाखा of the संघीय सरकारी and is the commander-in-chief of the United राज्य हथियारबंद शक्तियां.
आलेख II of the u.S. संविधान vests the executive शक्ति of the संयुक्त राज्य in the अध्यक्ष और charges him साथ the निष्पादन of संघीय law, alongside the responsibility of appointing संघीय कार्यपालिका, राजनयिक, regulatory, और judicial अधिकारियों, और concluding treaties साथ विदेशी powers, साथ the सलाह और consent of the Senate.
The अध्यक्ष is further सशक्त to ग्रान्ट संघीय pardons and reprieves, और to convene और adjourn either or दोनो houses of कॉंग्रेस अंतर्गत extraordinary circumstances.
Since the founding of the संयुक्त राज्य, the शक्ति of the अध्यक्ष और the संघीय government have grown substantially and प्रत्येक modern president, despite possessing no औपचारिक legislative powers परे signing or vetoing congressionally passed बिल्स, is largely जिम्मेदार लिये dictating the विधान कार्यसूची of उसके party and the foreign और domestic policy of the संयुक्त राज्य.
the president is frequently described as the सबसे powerful person in the world.
The president is indirectly निर्वाचित by the लोगों through the Electoral कॉलेज to a four-year term, and is one of तभी two nationally elected federal officers, the अन्य being the Vice अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य.
The twenty-second amendment, अपनाया in 1951, prohibits anyone इससे ever being elected to the प्रेसिडेंसी लिये a तीसरा पूरा पद.
it भी prohibits a person from being elected to the प्रेसिडेंसी अधिक than एकबार if that व्यक्ति previously था परोसा as अध्यक्ष, or एक्टिंग president, लिये अधिक than two सालो of another person 's term as president.
In all, 43 individuals have served 55 four-year terms.
on जनवरी 20, 2009, बराक Obama became the 44th and current president.
On नवम्बर 6, 2012, he was re-elected and is अनुसूचित to serve जबतक January 20, 2017.
बोतलबंद खनिज water
बोतलबंद water is पीने जल ( e.g., well water, आसुत जल, Mineral जल, or spring जल ) packaged in प्लास्टिक or glass जल bottles.
बोतलबंद जल may be carbonated or not.
आकार range इससे small सिंगल serving bottles to large carboys लिये water coolers.
मैप of the प्रमुख नदियाँ, झीलों, और टंकी in इण्डिया
मैप showing नदियाँ और बाढ़ prone areas in इण्डिया
नदियाँ of इण्डिया play an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in the lives of the भारतीय people.
the नदी प्रणालियों provide irrigation, potable water, cheap परिवहन, विद्युत, और the livelihoods लिये a large क्रमांक of लोगों all over the country और to rural क्षेत्रों.
इस easily explains क्यों nearly सब the प्रमुख cities of इण्डिया हैं located by the बैंको of rivers.
the नदियाँ also have an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in हिन्दू mythology and हैं माना पावन by सब Hindus in the country.
सात major rivers साथ with उनके numerous tributaries make up the नदी प्रणाली of इण्डिया.
Most of the नदियाँ डालना their waters into the खाड़ी of बंगाल ; however, some of the rivers जिनकी courses take उन्हें through the पश्चिमी भाग of the देश और towards the ईस्ट of the state of himachal pradesh खाली into the Arabian समुद्र.
भाग of Ladakh, northern भाग of the Aravlli range और the arid parts of the Thar मरुस्थल have inland drainage.
dr.francis बुकानन surveyed the courses of the नदियाँ of इण्डिया साथ साथ their tributaries और शाखाओं in 1810-11 ad और प्रस्तुत a minute account of it.
the shifting of the पाठ्यक्रम और bed over the सदियां is very उल्लेखनीय.
Many of the channels उल्लेखित in कि सर्वेक्षण have now become dead, सूखी or भी विलुप्त.
सब प्रमुख नदियाँ of इण्डिया originate इससे एक of the three प्रमुख watersheds :
the हिमालय और the काराकोरम ranges
विंध्य और Satpura सीमाएँ और chotanagpur पठार in सेंट्रल इण्डिया
sahyadri or पश्चिमी ghats in पश्चिमी India
The bretton वुड्स system of मौद्रिक प्रबन्धन स्थापित the rules for वाणिज्यिक and financial संबंध among the संसार 's major औद्योगिक राज्य in the mid-20th सदी.
the bretton वुड्स प्रणाली थी the पहला उदाहरण of a fully negotiated monetary अनुक्रम intended to govern मौद्रिक संबंध among independent nation-states.
तैयारी to rebuild the अंतरराष्ट्रीय economic प्रणाली as World युद्ध ii थी still raging, 730 delegates इससे सब 44 अलाइड राष्ट्र gathered at the Mount वॉशिंगटन Hotel in Bretton वुड्स, नई Hampshire, संयुक्त राज्य, लिये the संयुक्त राष्ट्र Monetary and वित्तीय Conference.
the delegates deliberated during 1–22 जुलाई 1944, and हस्ताक्षरित the Agreement on its फाइनल day.
Setting up a system of rules, institutions, and procedures to विनियमित the international मौद्रिक system, the planners at Bretton वुड्स स्थापित the International मौद्रिक निधि ( imf ) और the International बैंको लिये Reconstruction और Development ( ibrd ), which आज is भाग of the संसार बैंको समूह.
ये organizations became operational in 1945 बाद a sufficient number of देशों had ratified the अनुबंध.
the chief सुविधाएँ of the Bretton वुड्स system यहूद an obligation लिये each country to adopt a मौद्रिक नीति कि कायम the exchange rate by tying इसके करेंसी to the U.S. dollar and the क्षमता of the imf to सेतु अस्थाई imbalances of भुगतान.
On 15 अगस्त 1971, the संयुक्त राज्य unilaterally terminated convertibility of the us $ to सुनहरा.
इस brought the bretton वुड्स system to an समाप्त और saw the dollar become fiat करेंसी.
इस action, referred to as the निक्सन शॉक, निर्मित the हालात in जिससे the United राज्य डालर became a आरक्षित करेंसी प्रयुक्त by many states.
At the same समय, many फिक्स्ड मुद्राएँ ( ऐसे as gbp, लिये उदाहरण ), भी became free floating.
Ducati मोटर पकड़कर s.p.A. is an Italian company that डिजाइन और manufactures मोटरसाइकिल.
headquartered in Bologna, Italy, डुकाटी is स्वामित्व by audi through its इतालवी subsidiary लेम्बोर्गिनी.
A क्रेडिट स्कोर is a numerical expression based on a सांख्यिकीय analysis of a व्यक्ति 's क्रेडिट files, to represent the creditworthiness of कि व्यक्ति.
a क्रेडिट स्कोर is primarily आधारित on क्रेडिट रपट information typically sourced इससे क्रेडिट bureaus.
lenders, ऐसे as banks and क्रेडिट card कंपनियाँ, use credit scores to evaluate the संभावित रिस्क posed by lending money to उपभोक्ता and to mitigate losses due to bad कर्ज़.
Lenders उपयोग क्रेडिट scores to determine जो qualifies for a ऋण, at what ब्याज rate, and कया क्रेडिट हद.
Lenders भी use credit स्कोर to determine जिससे customers हैं संभावित to bring in the सबसे revenue.
The use of क्रेडिट or identity स्कोरिंग prior to authorizing access or granting credit is an क्रियान्वयन of a विश्वसनीय system.
Credit scoring is not सीमित to बैंको.
Other संगठन, such as मोबाईल phone companies, बीमे कंपनियाँ, landlords, and government विभाग employ the same तकनीकों.
क्रेडिट स्कोरिंग also has a लॉट of ओवरलैप with आंकड़ा खनन, जिससे uses अनेक similar techniques.
These तकनीकों combine हज़ारों of कारकों लकिन वे हैं अधिक or कम similar or the same.
the seven SI base इकाई and the interdependency of उनके परिभाषाएं : for उदाहरण, to निकालें the definition of the मीटर इससे the गति of लाइट, the परिभाषा of the second must be known while the ampere और candela हैं दोनो निर्भर on the definition of उर्जा जिससे in फेरे is पारिभाषित in terms of length, mass and समय.
the अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रणाली of इकाई ( si ) defines seven इकाई of माप as a मौलिक नियत इससे जिससे सब other si इकाई हैं निकला.
These si base इकाई and their शारीरिक quantities are:
मीटर for length ( US अंग्रेज़ी : meter )
किलोग्राम लिये द्रव्यमान ( नोट : नहीं the ग्राम )
दूसरी लिये time
ampere for इलेक्ट्रिक current
केल्विन for तापमान
candela for चमकदार तीव्रता
mole लिये the amount of substance.
The SI आधार quantities form a set of mutually स्वतंत्र आयाम as required by dimensional analysis commonly employed in विज्ञान और प्रौद्योगिकी.
however, in a दिए realization of these इकाई वे may खूब be interdependent, i.e. पारिभाषित in शर्तें of प्रत्येक अन्य.
the names of si इकाई हैं written in lowercase वर्ण ( the 'degree सेल्सियस ' meets इस rule, as 'degree ' is the ईकाई, और 'celsius ' is a modifier ).
The symbols of units हैं लिखा in lowercase ( e.g. metre रै the symbol m ), except that प्रतीकों लिये units नामित बाद व्यक्तियों हैं लिखा with an आरंभिक पूंजी अक्षर ( e.g., the hertz रै the अपरकेस प्रतीक Hz ).
अनेक अन्य इकाई, ऐसे as the लीटर ( us English : लीनियर ), हैं formally नहीं part of the SI, but हैं accepted लिये उपयोग साथ si.
स्मारक Canyon
Colorado नेशनल Monument ( locally referred to as The स्मारक ) is a भाग of the National Park सेवा निकट the city of Grand Junction, Colorado.
Spectacular canyons काटें deep into sandstone और भी granite–gneiss–schist चट्टान formations, in कुछ क्षेत्रों.
इस is an क्षेत्रफल of मरुस्थल जमीन ऊँची on the Colorado पठार, साथ पिनियन and juniper forests on the plateau.
The पार्क होस्ट a चौड़ी range of वन्यजीव, सहित red-tailed hawks और golden eagles, ravens, jays, desert bighorn शीप, and coyotes.
क्रियाएँ शामिल चढ़ाई, horseback riding, road bicycling, और दर्शनीय drives ; a आगंतुक बीच on the west side contains a प्राकृतिक इतिहास संग्रहालय और तोहफा shop.
वहीँ हैं magnificent views इससे trails और the रिम चट्टान Drive, जिससे हवाएँ along the plateau.
Nearby are the किताब Cliffs, और the largest flat-topped mountain in the world, the ग्रैंड mesa.
इसके विशेषता attraction is Monument canyon, जिससे runs the चौडाई of the पार्क, और शामिल चट्टान formations ऐसे as Independence स्मारक, the चुंबन युगल, and Coke चूल्हों.
The monument शामिल 20,500 एकड़ ( 32 square मील ), much of जिससे रै महरूम recommended to कॉंग्रेस for नामांकन as wilderness.
बाएँ to right : यूटिलिटी वर्दी, ब्लू पोशाक वर्दी, Service वर्दी, और Evening पोशाक वर्दी
the वर्दी of the संयुक्त States समुद्री corps serve to distinguish marines इससे सदस्यों of other सेवाएं.
Among current uniforms in the United States हथियारबंद शक्तियां, the Marines ' uniforms have been in सेवा the longest.
the समुद्री Dress ब्लू uniform has, with few परिवर्तन, been worn in essentially इसके current form चूंकि the 19th century.
उत्तर अमरीकी टेलीफोन क्षेत्रफल codes 419 और 567 serve the उत्तरपश्चिम quadrant of the u.S. राज्य of Ohio.
the largest city परोसा by ये क्षेत्रफल codes is Toledo ( and its उपनगरों of हॉलैंड, maumee, northwood, ऑरेगॉन, ओटावा पहाड़ियाँ, perrysburg, Rossford, sylvania, swanton, Waterville, and whitehouse ).
अन्य शहरों served by these क्षेत्रफल कोड include एडीए, ashland, bellevue, bluffton, बोलिंग ग्रीन, ब्रायन, bucyrus, celina, क्लाइड, crestline, defiance, delphos, Edison, Erastus, Findlay, fostoria, fremont, galion, kenton, लीमा, Mansfield, माउंट gilead, नेपोलियन, Norwalk, Oak हार्बर, बंदरगाहों क्लिंटन, Sandusky, Shelby, st. marys, tiffin, Upper sandusky, वैन wert, Wapakoneta, wauseon, willard.
Other areas परोसा शामिल the झील erie आइलैंड्स north of बंदरगाहों Clinton and वेस्ट of Sandusky.
the main क्षेत्रफल code, 419, थी created as one of the असली area कोड in अक्तूबर 1947 ; the ओवरले area code 567 थी created on जनवरी 1, 2002.
despite the presence of टोलेडो, the राज्य 's fourth-largest city, 419 थी the पिछला of ओहियो 's असली चार area कोड to have महरूम विभाजित or overlaid.
मिकी लेरॉय gilley ( born कूच 9, 1936 ) is an अमरीकी देश म्यूज़िक सिंगर and musician.
हालांकि he प्रारंभ out गायन straight-up country और पश्चिमी material in the 1970s, he स्थानांतरित towards a more pop -friendly sound in the 1980s, bringing him further कामयाबी on not बस the country चार्ट, but the pop चार्ट as well.
among उसके biggest hits हैं `` रूम पूरा of Roses, '' `` do n't the लड़कियों All Get prettier at closing समय, '' and the रीमेक of the आत्मा hit `` स्टैंड by Me ``.
he is भी the cousin of Jerry ली लुईस, कार्ल mcvoy, Jim gilley और jimmy swaggart.
according to the संघीय Aviation Administration, gilley is a licensed पायलट, जो holds an instrument दरजा with वाणिज्यिक पायलट privileges for multi-engine airplanes, as खूब as private pilot privileges लिये सिंगल इंजन वायुयान.
the सितंबर 11 हमले ( also referred to as September 11, September 11th, or 9/11 ) यहूद a series of चार समन्वित terrorist attacks शुभारम्भ by the Islamic आतंकवादी समूह al-Qaeda upon the संयुक्त States in New यॉर्क नगर and the वॉशिंगटन, D.C. area on सितंबर 11, 2001.
Four यात्री airliners यहूद hijacked by 19 al-qaeda आतंकवादी so वे could be flown into इमारतें in suicide हमले.
दो of those planes, American Airlines उड़ान 11 और संयुक्त एयरलाइंस उड़ान 175, यहूद crashed into the North और दक्षिण मीनारें, respectively, of the संसार Trade बीच जटिल in New York नगर.
भीतर दो घंटों, दोनो मीनारें collapsed साथ debris and the resulting फ़ायर causing partial or पूरा पतन of सब अन्य इमारतें in the wtc जटिल, as खूब as प्रमुख क्षति to टेन अन्य विशाल surrounding structures.
a third plane, American Airlines Flight 77, was क्रैश into the प्रस्तुतीकरण ( the मुख्यालय of the संयुक्त राज्य Department of Defense ), अग्रणी to a आंशिक collapse in इसके पश्चिमी पक्ष.
the चौथी प्लेन, संयुक्त Airlines उड़ान 93, थी targeted at the संयुक्त States कैपिटल in वॉशिंगटन, D.C., but crashed into a फ़ील्ड निकट shanksville, Pennsylvania, बाद इसके यात्री tried to overcome the hijackers.
In कुल, almost 3,000 लोगों died in the attacks, सहित the 227 नागरिकों and 19 hijackers सवार the four planes.
Suspicion quickly fell on al-qaeda.
Although the समूह 's नेता, ओसामा बिन लादेन, initially अस्वीकृत कोई involvement, in 2004 he claimed जिम्मेदारी for the हमले.
al-qaeda and bin Laden cited U.S. support of Israel, the उपस्थिति of u.S. सैनिकों in सऊदी अरब, और प्रतिबंधों against इराकी as motives लिये the attacks.
The United States responded to the हमले by शुभारंभ the युद्ध on आतंक और invading अफगानिस्तान to depose the तालिबान, जिससे had harbored al-qaeda.
Many देशों strengthened their anti-terrorism legislation और expanded विधि enforcement powers.
Having evaded कैप्चर लिये सालो, bin लादेन was स्तिथ और मारे by u.S. forces in may 2011.
the destruction of the Twin Towers और अन्य गुण caused गंभीर damage to the अर्थव्यवस्था of निम्नतर मैनहटन and had a significant effect on वैश्विक बाज़ार.
Cleanup of the संसार व्यापार बीच site was completed in May 2002, और the प्रस्तुतीकरण was repaired भीतर a साल.
numerous memorials have महरूम constructed, including the नेशनल September 11 मेमोरियल & संग्रहालय in नई यॉर्क, the प्रस्तुतीकरण मेमोरियल, and the उड़ान 93 नेशनल मेमोरियल in Pennsylvania.
बाद a lengthy delay, the एक संसार Trade बीच is expected to be completed at मैदान शून्य in New यॉर्क नगर in 2013.
ढूंढना nemo is a 2003 अमरीकी computer-animated comedy-drama adventure फिल्मी written and निर्देशित by Andrew Stanton, released by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी Pictures, और the fifth फिल्मी produced by पिक्चर्स Animation Studios.
It tells the स्टोरी of the over-protective clownfish नामित Marlin ( Albert ब्रूक्स ) who, along with a राजसी तंग नामित Dory ( Ellen degeneres ), searches for उसके abducted बेटे nemo ( Alexander gould ) all the रास्ता to Sydney harbour.
साथ the रास्ता, marlin learns to लो risks और let Nemo take care of himself.
It is पिक्चर्स 's first फिल्मी to be released in cinemas in the northern गोलार्ध गर्मियाँ.
the फिल्मी was re-released for the पहला time in 3D on September 14, 2012, and it थी released on Blu-ray on दिसम्बर 4, 2012.
a sequel, Finding dory, is currently in विकास, नियत to be released on नवम्बर 25, 2015.
the film received सार्वभौमिक critical acclaim and जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Animated Feature, और was मनोनीत in three अधिक श्रेणी including बेहतरीन Original पटकथा.
it थी the दूसरी highest-grossing film of 2003, earning a कुल of $ 921 लाख विश्वव्यापी.
ढूंढना nemo is भी the best-selling DVD of all time, with over 40 million नक़ल बेची as of 2006, and थी the highest-grossing g-rated फिल्मी of all समय पहले Pixar 's अपना खिलौना स्टोरी 3 overtook it.
it is भी the 23rd highest-grossing film of सब time, as खूब as the 3rd highest-grossing animated फिल्मी.
in 2008, the American फिल्मी Institute named it the दसवाँ greatest animated film कभी बना दौरान उनके शीर्ष 10.
the छठे season of अमेरिका 's Best Dance Crew, भी known as America 's बेहतरीन Dance क्रू : ऋतु of the Superstars, premiered on अप्रैल 7, 2011 और concluded on जून 5, 2011.
auditions were held in four cities इससे जनवरी 21 through फ़रवरी 5 : शिकागो, ह्यूस्टन, New यॉर्क, and Los एंजिल्स.
This ऋतु takes a अलग रूट इससे पास्ट सीज़न.
the क्रू जरूर perform to the म्यूज़िक of one विशिष्ट कलाकार प्रत्येक सप्ताह, including रिहाना, Lil Wayne, और अन्य लोकप्रिय stars.
This season भी features खास guest दिखावे by various म्यूज़िक हस्तियाँ including Justin बीबर, the ब्लैक Eyed मटर, Katy पेरी, kesha, निकी minaj, और Kanye वेस्ट.
डोमिनिक `` d-trix '' Sandoval, a पूर्व member of क्वेस्ट क्रू, the विजेता of the third ऋतु of America 's Best नृत्य क्रू, joins returning न्यायाधीशों लील मामा and jc chasez as the नवीनतम न्यायधीश.
In the ऋतु finale, I aM me was घोषित the winner of ऋतु 6 और प्राप्त the $ 100,000 ( USD ) पुरस्कार.
in the United States, Social सुरक्षा refers to the old-age, Survivors, and विकलांगता Insurance ( oasdi ) संघीय program.
the original सोशल सुरक्षा अधिनियम ( 1935 ) and the वर्तमान संस्करण of the अधिनियम, as amended, encompass several सोशल welfare and social बीमे कार्यक्रम.
Social सुरक्षा is primarily वित्तपोषित through dedicated payroll कर पुकारा संघीय बीमे Contributions Act tax ( fica ).
कर जमा are formally entrusted to the Federal old-age and survivors बीमे विश्वास Fund, the Federal Disability बीमे विश्वास निधि, the संघीय हॉस्पिटल Insurance विश्वास Fund, or the Federal Supplementary Medical बीमे विश्वास निधि which comprise the सोशल Security Trust Fund.
Upward redistribution of आय is जिम्मेदार for परिचय 43 % of the प्रक्षिप्त सोशल Security shortfall over the अगला 75 years.
according to economist मार्टिन feldstein, the combined बिता for सब social बीमे programs in 2003 constituted 37 % of government व्यय और 7 % of the gross घरेलू उत्पाद.
सोशल सुरक्षा is currently अनुमानित to keep roughly 40 percent of सब अमेरिकी आयु 65 or पुरानी out of poverty.
the Social सुरक्षा प्रशासन is headquartered in Woodlawn, Maryland, just वेस्ट of बाल्टीमोर.
the दारू by आवाज़ दिखाया on a bottle of absinthe.
Alcohol by आवाज़ ( abbreviated as abv, abv, or alc/vol ) is a मानक माप of कैसा much दारू ( इथेनॉल ) is contained in an alcoholic beverage ( expressed as a प्रतिशत of कुल volume ).
The abv मानक is used worldwide.
in कुछ देशों, दारू by आवाज़ is referred to as डिग्री gay-lussac ( बाद the French chemist जोसेफ लुई gay-lussac ).
लॉरेल Hollow is a गाँव in the Town of सीप खाड़ी in Nassau County, New यॉर्क in the संयुक्त States.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 1,952 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
चार्ल्स John huffam डिकेंस ( ; 7 February 1812 – 9 जून 1870 ) थी an English writer and social आलोचक.
he निर्मित some of the world 's सबसे यादगार fictional वर्ण और is generally regarded as the महानतम उपन्यासकार of the Victorian period.
दौरान his जीवन, उसके works enjoyed unprecedented कीर्ति, और by the बीसवीं century his literary genius was broadly acknowledged by आलोचकों and विद्वानों.
उसके novels और short कहानियां continue to be widely लोकप्रिय.
born in Portsmouth, इंग्लैण्ड, Dickens left स्कूल to work in a फैक्टरी बाद his पिता was thrown into कर्जदार ' prison.
हालांकि he had छोटी औपचारिक education, उसके जल्दी impoverishment drove him to सफल.
Over उसके career he संपादित a साप्ताहिक journal for 20 years, wrote 15 novels, 5 novellas और सैंकड़ों of short stories और non-fiction आलेख, lectured and performed extensively, थी an indefatigable letter लेखक, और campaigned vigorously लिये children 's अधिकारों, शिक्षा, और other social reforms.
डिकेंस sprang to कीर्ति with the 1836 सीरियल publication of The pickwick Papers.
भीतर a few सालो he था become an international साहित्यिक हस्ती, प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके ह्यूमर, satire, and keen अवलोकन of character and समाज.
उसके novels, सबसे प्रकाशित in मासिक or weekly instalments, pioneered the सीरियल प्रकाशन of कथा fiction, which became the प्रबल विक्टोरियन विधि लिये अनोखा publication.
the किस्त स्वरूप अनुमत डिकेंस to evaluate उसके audience 's प्रतिक्रिया, और he प्रायः परिवर्धित his प्लाट and character development आधारित on ऐसे प्रतिक्रिया.
लिये example, जब उसके wife 's chiropodist expressed तकलीफ at the रास्ता Miss mowcher in दाउद कॉपरफील्ड लगा to reflect उसके disabilities, डिकेंस went on to improve the अक्षर साथ धनात्मक lineaments.
fagin in ओलिवर Twist जाहिर mirrors the प्रसिद्ध बाड़ Ikey सुलेमान ; उसके कैरीकेचर of Leigh हंट in the फिगर of mr skimpole in Bleak House was likewise toned bas on सलाह from some of उसके मित्रों, as वे पढ़ा एपीसोड.
In the same novel, दोनो लॉरेंस Boythorne और मूनी the beadle हैं drawn इससे real life – boythorne from वाल्टर Savage landor और मूनी इससे 'Looney ', a beadle at salisbury Square.
His भूखंड यहूद carefully constructed, और Dickens प्रायः wove in तत्व from topical कार्यक्रम into उसके narratives.
masses of the अनपढ़ ग़रीब chipped in ha'pennies to have प्रत्येक नई monthly एपीसोड पढ़ा to उन्हें, opening up और प्रेरणादायी a नई class of readers.
डिकेंस थी regarded as the literary colossus of his age.
His 1843 novella, A Christmas कैरोल, is एक of the most influential works कभी लिखा, और it remains लोकप्रिय and continues to inspire adaptations in प्रत्येक artistic genre.
उसके रचनात्मक genius has महरूम praised by fellow writers—from Leo टालस्टाय to G. K. चेस्टरटन and George Orwell —for इसके realism, comedy, गद्य style, unique characterisations, और सोशल criticism.
On the अन्य हाथ Oscar वाइल्ड, हेनरी James और वर्जिनिया Woolf complained of a कमी of मनोवैज्ञानिक गहराई, ढीला writing, और a vein of saccharine sentimentalism.
मार्टिन लूथर King and अन्य सिविल अधिकारों leaders in front of the प्रतिमा of Abraham lincoln, अगस्त 28, 1963
the civil अधिकारों गति थी a श्रेणी of विश्वव्यापी राजनैतिक movements for equality पहले the विधि that peaked in the 1960s.
in अनेक situations it took the form of अभियान of civil प्रतिरोध aimed at achieving बदलें by nonviolent forms of resistance.
in कुछ परिस्थितियों it was accompanied, or followed, by civil unrest and armed rebellion.
The process was long और tenuous in many देशों, और अनेक of ये movements did नहीं fully achieve उनके goals हालांकि, the प्रयत्न of ये आंदोलनों किया सीसे to सुधार in the विधिक rights of previously दलित groups of people.
the प्रमुख aim of the civil rights movement शामिल, and शामिल, ensuring that the rights of सब लोगों are बराबर सुरक्षित by the विधि, including the अधिकारों of minorities.
सिविल rights आंदोलनों ranging from the global lgbt अधिकारों movement to the global महिलाओं 's अधिकारों गति to various racial अल्पसंख्यक rights movements around the world continue.
the 2010 फीफा संसार Cup थी the 19th FIFA संसार कप, the संसार championship for मेन 's नेशनल association football टीमों.
It took प्लेस in दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी इससे 11 जून to 11 जुलाई 2010.
the bidding प्रक्रम for hosting the tournament finals थी खोलें तभी to अफ़्रीकी राष्ट्र ; in 2004, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय फ़ुटबॉल संघ, FIFA, चयनित दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी over Egypt and मोरक्को to become the first African स्वदेश to मेजबान the फाइनल.
the मिलान यहूद निभाई in ten स्टेडियम in nine host शहरों around the country, साथ the final निभाई at the Soccer City स्टेडियम in South Africa 's largest नगर, Johannesburg.
thirty-two teams were selected लिये भागीदारी via a विश्वव्यापी qualification tournament कि began in August 2007.
In the पहला round of the tournament फाइनल, the teams competed in round-robin groups of four टीमों for points, साथ the शीर्ष दो टीमों in प्रत्येक समूह proceeding.
These sixteen टीमों उन्नत to the नॉकआउट स्टेज, जहाँ तीन rounds of play decided जिससे टीमों होता participate in the फाइनल.
in the फाइनल, Spain, the European champions, defeated third-time finalists the नीदरलैंड्स 1–0 after अतिरिक्त समय, with आन्द्रेस Iniesta 's goal in the 116th minute giving Spain उनके पहला संसार शीर्षक, becoming the आठवीं nation to win the tournament, and the पहला यूरोपीय स्वदेश to जीत the टूर्नामेंट बाहर its घर continent.
Host स्वदेश दक्षिण Africa, 2006 world champions Italy and 2006 runners-up France यहूद सब eliminated in the पहला round of the tournament.
It थी the पहला समय कि the hosts यहूद eliminated in the first गोलाकार.
नई Zealand with their three draws यहूद the only अपराजित टोली in the tournament, लकिन were also eliminated in the पहला गोलाकार.
the McMuffin is a family of breakfast सैंडविच in विभिन्न आकार and configurations, sold by the fast-food रेस्तरां chain McDonald 's.
The Egg mcmuffin is the signature नाश्ता सैंडविच ; it थी invented by the लेट मैकडोनाल्ड 's वाल Herb Peterson in the late 1960s and थी introduced देशभर in 1972.
John लेनन थी an अंग्रेज़ी संगीतकार जो gained worldwide fame as one of the founders of the बीटल्स, लिये his subsequent solo career, और for उसके राजनैतिक activism और pacifism.
he थी शॉट by चिह्नित दाउद chapman at the प्रवेश of the building where he lived, The Dakota, in नई York City on 8 दिसम्बर 1980.
Lennon था just लौटे इससे Record Plant Studio साथ उसके बीवी, योको ओनो.
लेनन was सुनाया मुर्दे on arrival at st. luke's-roosevelt Hospital बीच, जहाँ it थी stated कि nobody could have जिया लिये अधिक than a few मिनट्स after sustaining ऐसे injuries.
shortly बाद local news स्टेशन reported लेनन 's मौत, crowds gathered at रूज़वेल्ट Hospital और in सामने of the Dakota.
लेनन थी cremated on 10 December 1980 at the ferncliff कब्रिस्तान in Hartsdale, नई यॉर्क ; the राख were given to Ono, who chose नहीं to थाम a अंत्येष्टि for उसे.
the पहला report of लेनन 's death to a u.S. नेशनल दर्शक थी announced by हावर्ड Cosell, on ABC 's सोमवार रात्रि फ़ुटबॉल.
नई ऑरलियन्स ( or, locally or ; ) is a प्रमुख संयुक्त राज्य port and the largest city और महानगर area in the राज्य of louisiana.
The जनसांख्यिकी of the नगर थी 343,829 as of the 2010 u.S. Census.
The नई Orleans महानगर area ( नई Orleans–Metairie–Kenner महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल ) had a population of 1,167,764 in 2010 and was the 46th largest in the संयुक्त राज्य.
the नई orleans–metairie–bogalusa संयुक्त सांख्यिकीय Area, a larger व्यापार क्षेत्रफल, था a 2010 population of 1,214,932.
the नगर is named बाद orléans, a city located on the loire नदी in Centre, फ़्रांस, and is खूब known for इसके पृथक French क्रियोल architecture, as well as its cross-cultural और multilingual heritage.
नई Orleans is भी famous लिये इसके cuisine, म्यूज़िक ( विशेषकर as the जन्मस्थान of जैज़ ), और its annual जश्न और festivals, सबसे notably Mardi ग्रा.
The नगर is often referred to as the `` सबसे unique '' in America.
नई Orleans is located in southeastern louisiana, straddling the Mississippi नदी.
the नगर और Orleans Parish ( ) हैं.
The नगर और मोहल्ला हैं bounded by the parishes of st. Tammany to the north, st. Bernard to the ईस्ट, plaquemines to the south और Jefferson to the दक्षिण और west.
झील Pontchartrain, भाग of which is included in the नगर हद, झूठ to the उत्तर और Lake borgne lies to the east.
The United राज्य presidential election of 1968 was the 46th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय election, held on Tuesday, नवम्बर 5, 1968.
the Republican nominee, former vice-president Richard निक्सन, जीती the चुनाव over the लोकतांत्रिक nominee, incumbent Vice-President ह्यूबर्ट Humphrey.
Nixon भागा on a अभियान कि promised to restore law और अनुक्रम to the nation 's cities, फटा by दंगे and crime.
विश्लेषकों have argued the चुनाव of 1968 is a realigning election as it permanently disrupted the नई सौदे गठबन्धन that had वर्चस्व presidential politics लिये 36 years.
coming चार सालो after डेमोक्रेट lyndon B. जॉनसन won in a historic landslide, the चुनाव देखी the लाज़िम अध्यक्ष मजबूर out of the रेस and a Republican निर्वाचित लिये the first समय in बारह सालो.
It थी a wrenching national अनुभव, conducted during a year of हिंसा कि शामिल the हत्या of civil अधिकारों नेता Martin लूथर किंग, Jr., and subsequent race riots आरपार the nation, the assasination of Democratic अध्यक्षीय candidate रॉबर्ट F. Kennedy, फैली विपक्ष to the वियतनाम War across university campuses, and violent confrontations between पुलिस और anti-war प्रदर्शनकारियों at the 1968 Democratic नेशनल सम्मेलन as the Democratic party split again and again.
the election प्रदर्शित the strongest third पार्टी effort चूंकि 1912 by पूर्व अलबामा राज्यपाल George Wallace, a डेमोक्रेट.
क्युकी वालेस 's campaign opposed संघीय intervention in the दक्षिण to end स्कूल segregation, he carried the गहन South and भागा खूब in जातीय industrial districts in the उत्तर.
इस was the पिछला चुनाव in जिससे नई York had the सबसे votes in the electoral college ( 43 votes ).
बाद the 1970 census, कैलिफ़ोर्निया gained the सबसे चुनावी votes and has remained the सबसे populous राज्य since तब.
इस is the latest election where a presidential ticket won बगैर carrying the वाइस अध्यक्षीय candidate 's home state.
Karak ( ; भी ज्ञात as Garak, garrak, और Gorg ) is a गाँव in Gamasiyab Rural District, in the सेंट्रल District of nahavand काउंटी, Hamadan प्रांत, इरान.
at the 2006 जनसांख्यिकी, इसके जनसांख्यिकी was 294, in 65 परिवारों.
कर्ट 's signature
कर्ट डोनाल्ड कोबेन ( फ़रवरी 20, 1967 – अप्रैल 5, 1994 ) थी an अमरीकी संगीतकार और कलाकार, best known as the सीसे singer, guitarist और प्राथमिक songwriter of the grunge बैंड निर्वाण.
कोबेन formed Nirvana with Krist novoselic in एबरडीन, वॉशिंगटन in 1985 and स्थापित it as भाग of the सिएटल म्यूज़िक scene, having इसके डेब्यू एल्बम Bleach released on the independent record लेबल sub पॉप in 1989.
After signing साथ प्रमुख label DGC Records, the band found breakthrough कामयाबी साथ `` खुश्बू Like Teen Spirit `` from इसके दूसरी एल्बम nevermind ( 1991 ).
Following the कामयाबी of nevermind, निर्वाण थी labeled `` the flagship band '' of पीढी X, and Cobain hailed as `` the प्रवक्ता of a पीढी ''.
Cobain, however, was प्रायः uncomfortable and frustrated, believing his संदेश and कलाकारी दृष्टि to have been misinterpreted by the public, with his निजी मुद्दे प्रायः विषय to मीडिया attention.
he challenged Nirvana 's audience साथ its final studio एल्बम in utero ( 1993 ).
दौरान the last years of his जीवन, Cobain struggled साथ हेरोइन व्यसन, बीमारी और depression.
He भी था difficulty coping साथ उसके fame और पब्लिक image, and the पेशेवर और lifelong निजी pressures surrounding खुद और उसके wife, संगीतकार कोर्टनी प्रेम.
on अप्रैल 8, 1994, कोबेन was मिला मुर्दे at उसके घर in सिएटल, the शिकार of what थी officially ruled a आत्महत्या by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the सिर.
the हालातों of उसके मौत at आयु 27 have become a टॉपिक of पब्लिक fascination and बहस.
चूंकि उनके डेब्यू, Nirvana, साथ कोबेन as a songwriter, has sold over 25 लाख एल्बम in the U.S., और over 50 लाख विश्वव्यापी.
A millwright is a craftsman or tradesman सगाई with the construction और मेंटेनेंस of मशीनरी.
अधिक generally in the English speaking world, जल्दी millwrights were विशेषज्ञ carpenters who erected मशीने प्रयुक्त in कृषि, खाना प्रसंस्करण and प्रसंस्करण lumber और पेपर.
in the जल्दी भाग of the Industrial क्रान्ति, उनके कौशल यहूद दबाया into service भवन the earliest संचालित वस्त्र मिलों.
आधुनिक millwrights कार्य साथ steel and अन्य सामग्री in जोड to लकडी और must प्रायः combine the कौशल of several skilled ट्रेड in order to सफलतापूर्वक fabricate industrial मशीनरी or to इकट्ठे मशीने from pre-fabricated parts.
The modern millwright जरूर भी be able to read blueprints और other schematics to सहायता him in the construction of जटिल प्रणालियों.
Millwrights हैं frequently unionized, with around 45 % unionized in the US, although अनुभवी millwrights often नियत themselves up as independent ठेकेदारों.
the Adjustment ब्यूरो is a 2011 American romantic action thriller film loosely आधारित on the Philip K. लंड short story, `` समायोजन टोली ``.
The फिल्मी थी written और निर्देशित by जार्ज nolfi और stars Matt Damon और Emily कुंद.
the डाल भी शामिल Anthony mackie, John slattery, माइकल केली, and Terence Stamp.
the score was composed by थामस Newman, with दो गीतों by Richard Ashcroft ( `` भविष्य 's उज्जवल '' लिये the opening sequence ; `` Are तुम तैयार ? '' लिये the closing credits ).
सोडियम azide is the inorganic यौगिक साथ the सूत्र nan3.
This colorless salt is the gas-forming घटक in अनेक car एयरबैग प्रणालियों.
it is प्रयुक्त for the preparation of अन्य azide compounds.
it is an ionic पदार्थ, is अत्यधिक soluble in water, और is बहुत acutely toxic.
Double रेनबो और supernumerary rainbows on the अंदर of the प्राथमिक चाप.
The छाया of the फ़ोटोग्राफ़र 's सिर on the नीचे marks the centre of the रेनबो वृत्त ( antisolar point ).
A rainbow is an ऑप्टिकल और meteorological phenomenon that is caused by reflection of light in water droplets in the धरती 's माहौल, resulting in a वर्णक्रम of लाइट appearing in the sky.
it takes the रूप of a multicoloured arc.
rainbows caused by धूप सदा appear in the section of sky सीधे विपरीत the सूर्य.
In a `` प्राथमिक rainbow '', the चाप shows red on the outer part और बैंगनी on the inner side.
इस रेनबो is caused by light being refracted जबकि entering a droplet of water, तब reflected inside on the वापस of the droplet और refracted again जब leaving it.
In a दोगुना रेनबो, a second arc is seen बाहर the प्राथमिक चाप, and रै the order of its colours reversed, red facing toward the other एक, in both rainbows.
This second रेनबो is caused by लाइट reflecting twice inside water droplets.
The Conservative पार्टी, officially the Conservative और यूनियनिस्ट Party and colloquially referred to as the tory पार्टी or the Tories, is a centre-right राजनैतिक पार्टी in the United Kingdom कि espouses the तत्त्वज्ञान of कोसा and British unionism.
it is the largest राजनैतिक party in the संयुक्त Kingdom, being the largest single पार्टी in the हाउस of कॉमन्स with 303 mps, the largest party in local government साथ 9,391 पार्षदों, और the largest अंग्रेजों party in the European पार्लियामेंट साथ 25 meps.
it governs in गठबन्धन साथ the उदार Democrats, साथ पार्टी leader David Cameron as Prime मंत्री.
the रूढ़िवादी Party थी संस्थापित in 1834, and थी one of two dominant पार्टियों in the 19th सदी, साथ साथ the Liberal पार्टी.
It बदला its नाम to the रूढ़िवादी and Unionist पार्टी in 1912 after विलय साथ the Liberal Unionist पार्टी, हालांकि that नाम is rarely used और it is generally referred to as simply the रूढ़िवादी पार्टी.
In the 1920s, the Liberal vote greatly diminished और the श्रमिक पार्टी became the conservatives ' प्रमुख विरोधियों.
Conservative प्रधान मंत्रियों led सरकारें लिये 57 सालो of the 20th सदी, सहित विंस्टन Churchill ( 1940–45, 1951–55 ) और मार्गरेट थैचर ( 1979–90 ).
Thatcher 's tenure led to wide-ranging आर्थिक उदारीकरण और देखी the conservatives become the most eurosceptic of the three प्रमुख parties.
the party was लौटे to सरकारी in गठबन्धन, having विफल to जीत a बहुमत, in 2010 अंतर्गत the अधिक `` उदार '' leadership of David cameron.
In the यूरोपीय पार्लियामेंट, the Conservatives हैं the largest British पार्टी साथ 25 meps, जो sit साथ the नरम eurosceptic यूरोपीय conservatives और reformists ( ECR ) parliamentary group, while the पार्टी itself is a सदस्य of the Alliance of यूरोपीय Conservatives और reformists ( aecr ) europarty.
They हैं the third-largest party in the स्कॉटिश पार्लियामेंट और second-largest in the वेल्श सभा.
वे were formally allied to the ulster यूनियनिस्ट Party ( uup ) as part of the ulster conservatives और unionists arrangement, साथ the uup currently participating in the five-party उत्तरी आयरलैंड Executive.
Destiny 's चाइल्ड was an American R & B लड़की समूह जिनकी final, और perhaps most recognizable, line-up comprised Beyoncé Knowles, Kelly rowland and मिशेल विलियम्स.
formed in 1990 in Houston, Texas, नियति 's Child members began their musical endeavors as Girl 's टीमे comprising, among अन्य, Knowles, Rowland, latavia roberson और letoya luckett.
After सालो of limited कामयाबी, they यहूद हस्ताक्षरित to कोलंबिया Records as नियति 's Child.
Destiny 's चाइल्ड was launched into मुख्यधारा recognition following the रिलीज of उनके best-selling second एल्बम, the Writing 's on the Wall, which contained the number-one singles `` बिल्स, बिल्स, बिल्स `` और `` Say My Name ``.
despite critical and commercial success, the group थी plagued by आतंरिक विरोध और विधिक turmoil, as roberson और Luckett attempted to split from the समूह 's मैनेजर mathew Knowles, citing favoritism of नॉलेस and rowland, his daughter and niece, respectively.
दोनो roberson और luckett यहूद जल्द replaced साथ विलियम्स और farrah फ्रैंकलिन ; however, in 2000, फ्रैंकलिन थी dismissed, leaving उन्हें as a तिकड़ी.
Their third album, उत्तरजीवी, जिससे contains विषयवस्तु the पब्लिक interpreted as a channel to the समूह 's experience, contains the विश्वव्यापी hits `` स्वतंत्र Women ``, `` उत्तरजीवी `` और `` Bootylicious ``.
In 2002, वे announced a अंतराल and re-united two years बाद for the रिलीज of उनके fourth studio एल्बम, नियति Fulfilled ( 2004 ).
नियति 's चाइल्ड रै बेची more than 50 लाख रिकॉर्ड worldwide to तिथि.
बिलबोर्ड magazine बाँधने the समूह as one of the महानतम musical trios of all समय, the ninth सबसे कामयाब artist/band of the 2000s, और लगाई the group 68th in इसके All-Time hot 100 Artists सूची in 2008.
The Centers लिये बीमारी कंट्रोल and Prevention ( सीडीसी ) is a United राज्य संघीय एजेंसी अंतर्गत the विभाग of स्वास्थ्य and इंसान Services headquartered in Druid पहाड़ियाँ, unincorporated dekalb County, जॉर्जिया, in Greater अटलांटा.
It works to protect public health और safety by providing सूचना to enhance स्वास्थ्य निर्णय, और it promotes health through partnerships with state health departments और अन्य संगठन.
the सीडीसी फ़ोकस national ध्यान on developing और applying disease prevention and कंट्रोल ( especially संक्रामक diseases और foodborne pathogens और अन्य सूक्ष्मजैविक infections ), environmental health, occupational सुरक्षा and health, स्वास्थ्य promotion, injury रोकथाम और शिक्षा क्रियाएँ designed to improve the स्वास्थ्य of the लोगों of the United राज्य.
the CDC is the संयुक्त States ' नेशनल पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य संस्थान and is a founding member of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ of नेशनल पब्लिक Health Institutes.
Earthquake भविष्यवाणी `` is प्रायः defined as the specification of the समय, location, and परिमाण of a future भूकंप भीतर stated हद '', and particularly of `` the next strong भूकंप to occur in a प्रदेश. ''
इस can be विशिष्ट from भूकंप forecasting, जिससे is the probabilistic assessment of सामान्य भूकंप जोखिम, including the आवृत्ति और magnitude of damaging earthquakes, in a दिए area over periods of years or दशकों.
इस can be further distinguished from real-time भूकंप चेतावनी प्रणालियों, जिससे, upon डिटेक्शन of a severe earthquake, can provide neighboring regions a few seconds चेतावनी of potentially significant shaking.
To be उपयोगी, an भूकंप prediction must be precise enough to वारंट the cost of increased precautions, including disruption of ordinary activities and commerce, and सामयिक पर्याप्त कि preparation can be made.
पूर्वानुमान जरूर also be विश्वसनीय, as गलत alarms और रद्द alarms हैं नहीं तभी economically costly, लकिन seriously undermine विश्वास in, and thereby the प्रभावकारिता of, कोई दयालु of चेतावनी.
साथ over 7,000 भूकंप around the संसार each year साथ a magnitude of 4.0 or वृहद, trivial कामयाबी in भूकंप prediction is easily प्राप्त using fear व्यापक पैरामीटर्स of समय, स्थान, or परिमाण.
However, such नगण्य `` successful पूर्वानुमान '' हैं नहीं उपयोगी.
Major भूकंप are often followed by रिपोर्ट्स कि वे यहूद पूर्वानुमानित, or at least anticipated, लकिन no अर्जी of a कामयाब भविष्यवाणी of a प्रमुख भूकंप has survived बंद पूछताछ.
In the 1970s there थी तीव्र आशावाद amongst वैज्ञानिकों कि कुछ विधि of predicting earthquakes might be मिला, लकिन by the 1990s continuing विफलता led many scientists to question whether it थी भी संभावित.
जबकि many वैज्ञानिकों स्टिल hold that, दिए enough संसाधन, prediction might be संभावित, अनेक अन्य maintain that भूकंप भविष्यवाणी is inherently नामुमकिन.
Deborah ऐन `` debby '' Ryan ( born may 13, 1993 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री, सिंगर, संगीतकार, songwriter and रिकार्ड producer.
रयान is बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये अभिनीत as बेली पिकेट in the डिज़्नी चैनल असली श्रेणी The Suite Life on Deck.
in 2008, The Suite जीवन on Deck क्रमित as tv 's top series among बच्चे 6-11 and the no. 2 scripted श्रेणी among tweens 9-14.
रयान प्रारंभ acting in पेशेवर थिएटर at the आयु of seven ; in 2007 she appeared in the Barney & मित्रों straight-to-DVD फिल्मी Barney : Let 's go to the फायरहाउस और then was खोजा in a देशभर ढूंढें by Disney.
She is भी ज्ञात लिये appearing in the 2008 विशेषता film The Longshots as Edith.
in 2009, वो अतिथि स्ट्रक्चर in an episode of wizards of waverly प्लेस in wizards on डेक with Hannah Montana as बेली पिकेट साथ with her other डाल mates इससे the Suite जीवन on डेक.
तब, in 2010, वो स्ट्रक्चर in the film 16 Wishes, which थी the सबसे देखी केबल कार्यक्रम on the day of इसके प्रीमियर on the डिज़्नी चैनल.
16 Wishes introduced रयान to नई audiences ; the फिल्म प्राप्त high viewership in the वयस्कों demographic ( 18-34 ).
Soon after that, Ryan स्ट्रक्चर in the स्वतंत्र theatrical फिल्मी, What If..., जिससे premiered on अगस्त 20, 2010.
Ryan भी starred in the नई Disney Channel Original movie, Radio विद्रोही, जहाँ वो portrays the role of tara Adams, a shy 17-year-old girl जो adopts the रेडियो व्यक्तित्व, Radio विद्रोही.
Released फ़रवरी 17, 2012.
Ryan सितारों in the titular role in the डिज़्नी चैनल Original Series, जेसी.
stührling tourbillon गति ( ).
In horology, a tourbillon ( ; `` whirlwind '' ) is an जोड to the यांत्रिकी of a देखें escapement.
विकसित around 1795 by the French-Swiss घड़ीसाज़ abraham-louis Breguet from an earlier विचार by the अंग्रेज़ी chronometer maker जॉन अर्नाल्ड, a tourbillon aims to काउंटर the प्रभाव of गम्भीरता by mounting the escapement और संतुलन व्हील in a घूर्णन पिंजरा, to negate the effect of gravity जब the timepiece ( यूँ the escapement ) is stuck in a certain position.
originally an attempt to improve सटीकता, tourbillons हैं स्टिल included in कुछ expensive आधुनिक घड़ियाँ as a विलक्षणता and demonstration of watchmaking virtuosity.
the mechanism is usually उजागर on the देखें 's फेस to दिखाएँ it बंद.
the खिड़कियाँ installer ( previously ज्ञात as Microsoft Installer ) is a तन्त्र घटक प्रयुक्त लिये the संस्थापना, मेंटेनेंस, और removal of software on आधुनिक Microsoft Windows systems.
The संस्थापना information, और often the files themselves, are packaged in संस्थापना पैकेज, loosely रिलेशनल databases संरचित as com संरचित storages and commonly ज्ञात as `` MSI files '', from उनके डिफॉल्ट file एक्सटेंशन.
खिड़कियाँ installer contains significant परिवर्तन from इसके predecessor, Setup API.
नई सुविधाएँ शामिल a जीयूआई framework and automatic पीढी of the uninstallation अनुक्रम.
खिड़कियाँ Installer is positioned as an वैकल्पिक to stand-alone executable installer frameworks ऐसे as पुरानी संस्करण of InstallShield and NSIS.
microsoft encourages तीसरा पार्टियों to उपयोग खिड़कियाँ Installer as the basis लिये संस्थापना frameworks, so कि they synchronize correctly with other installers और रखना the internal डेटाबेस of installed उत्पाद सतत.
महत्वपूर्ण सुविधाएँ such as rollback और versioning depend on a सतत आतंरिक database for विश्वसनीय आपरेशन.
furthermore, खिड़कियाँ Installer facilitates the principle of least विशेषाधिकार by performing तन्त्र installations by प्रॉक्सी लिये unprivileged users.
Four Loko is a लकीर of alcoholic पेय, originally marketed as energy drinks, sold by Phusion Projects of शिकागो, इलिनोइस.
Phusion operates as Drink Four brewing कम्पनी.
Four लोको, the company 's सबसे लोकप्रिय पेय, debuted in the संयुक्त States market in 2005.
it is अभी बेची in 48 states, and in Canada, The बहामा, बोलीविया, होंडुरास, and Europe.
the name `` चार '' is derived from the original उर्जा पेय 's चार प्रमुख संघटक : दारू, caffeine, taurine, and guarana.
चार ब्रांडेड उत्पाद have महरूम the object of विधिक, नैतिक, और स्वास्थ्य चिंताएं related to the कम्पनी allegedly विपणन उन्हें to the underaged और the purported danger of combining alcohol और caffeine.
बाद the पेय थी banned in अनेक राज्य, a उत्पाद reintroduction in दिसम्बर 2010 removed caffeine, taurine, and guarana as संघटक, और the malt beverage is no longer marketed as an energy drink.
The गर्दन of a guitar showing the नट ( in the पृष्ठभूमि, coloured श्वेत ) और पहला चार मेटल frets.
A fret is a उठाया element on the गर्दन of a stringed यंत्र.
frets प्रायः extend आरपार the पूरा width of the गर्दन.
on सबसे आधुनिक western fretted यंत्र, frets are मेटल स्ट्रिप्स inserted into the fingerboard.
On some ऐतिहासिक यंत्र और non-European instruments, frets हैं made of टुकड़े of स्ट्रिंग tied around the neck.
frets divide the गर्दन into फिक्स्ड खण्ड at intervals related to a musical फ्रेमवर्क.
On यंत्र ऐसे as guitars, प्रत्येक fret represents एक semitone in the standard western system जहाँ one octave is divided into twelve semitones.
fret is प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a क्रिया, अर्थ simply `` to दबायें bas the string पीछे a fret. ''
Fretting often refers to the frets and/or their प्रणाली of placement.
वहीँ थी खपत of दारू दोनो during और after निषेध.
The 18th amendment निषिद्ध the production, वितरण and बिक्री of alcoholic पेय in the संयुक्त राज्य और was widely supported by the American public when it went into प्रभाव in 1920.
The temperance गति था popularized the belief कि alcohol थी the major cause of most निजी and सोशल problems और निषेध थी देखी as the समाधान to the स्वदेश 's poverty, crime, हिंसा, और अन्य ills.
upon अनुसमर्थन of the amendment, the प्रसिद्ध evangelist Billy संडे कहा कि `` the slums होगा soon be only a मेमोरी.
we होगा turn our prisons into कारखानों और हमारी jails into storehouses and corncribs. ''
( compare Christianity और alcohol. )
Since alcohol was to be बैन और चूंकि it थी देखी as the cause of most, if not all, crime, कुछ समुदायों बेची their jails.
the स्वदेश was highly optimistic और the leading prohibitionist in the संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस confidently asserted that `` वहीँ is as much chance of repealing the eighteenth amendment as there is for a hummingbird to fly to the ग्रह मंगल with the वॉशिंगटन स्मारक tied to इसके tail.”
The metre ( मीटर in अमरीकी English ), ( SI ईकाई प्रतीक : m ; si आयाम symbol : l ), is the आधारभूत unit of लंबाई in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय System of इकाई ( SI ).
originally intended to be एक ten-millionth of the अलहदा इससे the Earth 's equator to the उत्तर Pole ( at समुद्र level ), इसके परिभाषा रै been periodically परिष्कृत to प्रतिबिंबित growing ज्ञान of metrology.
Since 1983, it has महरूम defined as `` the length of the path travelled by light in वैक्यूम during a समय अंतराल of 1/299,792,458 of a दूसरी. ''
geologists exploring jurassic sedimentary rocks in makhtesh gadol, Negev Desert, Israel
geologists explaining the importance of volcanic राख परतों to students on फ़ील्ड in Iceland
a भूवैज्ञानिक is a वैज्ञानिक जो अध्ययन the solid and liquid matter that constitutes the धरती as well as the प्रक्रियाओं और history that रै तराशा it.
Geologists usually engage in studying geology.
geologists, अध्ययन more of an applied science than a theoretical एक, जरूर दृष्टिकोण Geology using भौतिकी, chemistry और जीवविज्ञान as खूब as अन्य sciences.
geologists, compared to scientists सगाई in अन्य फ़ील्ड, are generally अधिक exposed to the outdoors than staying in laboratories ; although कुछ geologists prefer to perform सबसे of उनके अध्ययन in the lab.
geologists are सगाई in खोजी लिये खनन companies in search of धातुओं, oils, और other Earth संसाधन.
वे हैं also in the forefront of प्राकृतिक hazards और आपदाओं चेतावनी और mitigation, अध्ययन भूकंप, volcanic कार्यकलाप, tsunamis, weather तूफ़ान, और the जैसे ; उनके studies हैं used to warn the सामान्य public of the occurrence of these events.
फिलहाल, geologists हैं भी सगाई in the चर्चा of जलवायु बदलें, as वे पढ़ाई the इतिहास and प्रमाण for this Earth प्रक्रम.
नीचे is a comprehensive ड्रिल and tap आकार चार्ट लिये all drills, imperial और मीट्रिक, और टैप up to 36.5 mm.
Modern वैक्यूम tubes, mostly miniature स्टाइल
in electronics, a वैक्यूम ट्यूब, electron ट्यूब ( in North अमेरिका ), thermionic valve, ट्यूब, or वाल्व is a यंत्र controlling इलेक्ट्रिक वर्तमान through a वैक्यूम in a sealed container.
The container is often पतला transparent कांच in a roughly बेलनाकार आकार.
the सरलतम vacuum tube, the diode, is essentially an incandescent light bulb साथ an added एलेक्ट्रोड inside.
जब the बल्ब 's फिलामेंट is heated white-hot, electrons हैं `` boiled '' बंद इसके surface and into the vacuum अंदर the bulb.
If the एलेक्ट्रोड -- पुकारा a `` थाली '' or `` anode '' -- is made अधिक धनात्मक than the hot फिलामेंट, a direct current बहती through the vacuum to the electrode ( a demonstration of the एडिसन प्रभाव ).
As the वर्तमान only बहती in one direction, it makes it संभावित to बदलें an प्रत्यावर्ती current applied to the filament to direct वर्तमान.
The परिचय of a third एलेक्ट्रोड, a grid between the filament and the थाली, yields another function.
A वोल्टेज लागू to the ग्रिड नियंत्रण the वर्तमान flowing from the फिलामेंट to the plate.
यूँ, it allows the यंत्र to be used as an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक amplifier.
Vacuum tubes हैं यूँ प्रयुक्त for rectification, प्रवर्धन, switching, or समान प्रसंस्करण or सृष्टि of electrical signals.
the vast बहुमत of आधुनिक day tubes consist of a sealed container साथ a वैक्यूम inside, and essentially rely on thermionic उत्सर्जन of electrons इससे a hot फिलामेंट or a कैथोड heated by the filament.
कुछ exceptions to this हैं dealt साथ in the खण्ड परिचय gas-filled tubes below.
Vacuum tubes यहूद critical to the development of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक technology, which drove the विस्तार and व्यावसायीकरण of रेडियो प्रसारण, टेलीविज़न, रडार, ध्वनि reinforcement, ध्वनि रिकॉर्डिंग and जनन, विशाल telephone संजाल, एनालॉग and डिजिटल कंप्यूटर, and industrial process कंट्रोल.
Although कुछ अनुप्रयोग था counterparts using पहले technologies such as the spark gap transmitter or mechanical कंप्यूटर, it was the आविष्कार of the वैक्यूम tube साथ तीन electrodes ( पुकारा a ट्रायोड ) और इसके capability of electronic amplification that बना ये technologies फैली और व्यावहारिक.
in most अनुप्रयोग, solid-state devices ऐसे as transistors और अन्य सेमीकंडक्टर devices have replaced tubes.
solid-state devices last longer और हैं smaller, अधिक efficient, more reliable, and cheaper than tubes.
Tubes can be नाजुक, sometimes generate significant unwanted heat, और can take अनेक seconds—many minutes in नाजुक applications—after powering on to warm to a temperature जहाँ they perform within operational सहिष्णुता.
However, tubes स्टिल ढूँढें uses जहाँ solid-state devices have not महरूम developed, are अव्यवहारिक, or जहाँ a ट्यूब रै श्रेष्ठ प्रदर्शन, as with some devices in professional ऑडियो और high-power रेडियो ट्रांसमीटरों.
tubes are स्टिल produced for such अनुप्रयोग.
Tubes are less likely than semiconductor डिवाइस to be नष्ट by the electromagnetic पल्स उत्पादित by nuclear विस्फोट और geomagnetic storms उत्पादित by दानव सौर flares.
skittles is a ब्रांड of fruit-flavoured sweets, currently उत्पादित and marketed by the wm. wrigley Jr. कम्पनी, a प्रभाग of मंगल, inc.
They have मुश्किल शुगर शेल जिससे carry the अक्षर S.
the inside is मुख्यतः शुगर, मकई सिरप, and hydrogenated ताड़ कर्नेल oil साथ साथ फल रस, साइट्रिक एसिड, और प्राकृतिक and कृत्रिम चटपटा.
the confectionery रै महरूम बेची in a किस्में of flavour संग्रहण, ऐसे as तीव्र और Wild Berry.
सर विंस्टन Leonard Spencer-Churchill, ( 30 नवम्बर 1874 – 24 January 1965 ) was a अंग्रेजों राजनेता who was the प्रधान मंत्री of the संयुक्त किंगडम इससे 1940 to 1945 और again from 1951 to 1955.
widely regarded as one of the महानतम wartime leaders of the 20th सदी, चर्चिल थी भी an अधिकारी in the अंग्रेजों फौज, a इतिहासकार, a लेखक, और an कलाकार.
He is the only अंग्रेजों प्रधान मंत्री in इतिहास to have received the नोबेल पुरस्कार in Literature, and was भी the first व्यक्ति to be बना an मानद Citizen of the संयुक्त राज्य.
चर्चिल थी born into an वैभवशाली परिवार as the grandson of the 7th ड्यूक of Marlborough.
His पिता, Lord randolph चर्चिल, was a charismatic politician जो परोसा as Chancellor of the exchequer ; his माँ, jennie जेरोम, थी an अमरीकी socialite.
as a यंग फौज अधिकारी, he saw action in British इण्डिया, the Sudan, and the दूसरी बोअर War.
he gained कीर्ति as a युद्ध correspondent और wrote books about उसके अभियान.
at the forefront of राजनीती लिये पचास सालो, he आयोजित many राजनैतिक और कैबिनेट positions.
Before the पहला संसार युद्ध, he परोसा as President of the Board of Trade, घर Secretary, and First Lord of the admiralty as part of the asquith Liberal government.
During the युद्ध, he continued as पहला रब of the Admiralty जबतक the disastrous Gallipoli अभियान caused उसके departure इससे सरकारी.
he तब briefly resumed क्रियाशील फौज सेवा on the पश्चिमी सामने as कमांडर of the 6th Battalion of the royal Scots Fusiliers.
He लौटे to सरकारी as मंत्री of munitions, सचिव of State for War, और Secretary of राज्य for एयर.
After the युद्ध, Churchill served as चांसलर of the exchequer in the Conservative ( Baldwin ) government of 1924–29, controversially returning the पाउंड sterling in 1925 to the gold standard at इसके pre-war पैरिटी, a move widely seen as बनाना deflationary pressure on the uk अर्थव्यवस्था.
Also controversial was his opposition to increased घर rule for इण्डिया and his प्रतिरोध to the 1936 abdication of Edward viii.
आउट of office and नीतियां `` in the wilderness '' during the 1930s, चर्चिल took the lead in चेतावनी परिचय नाजी Germany and in campaigning for rearmament.
on the outbreak of the दूसरी World War, he was again नियुक्त पहला रब of the admiralty.
following the इस्तीफा of नेविली चेम्बरलेन on 10 may 1940, Churchill became Prime मंत्री.
His steadfast refusal to consider defeat, surrender, or a सुलह सलाम helped inspire अंग्रेजों resistance, विशेषकर दौरान the मुश्किल early days of the युद्ध जब ब्रिटेन stood alone among यूरोपीय देशों in इसके क्रियाशील विपक्ष to Adolf हिटलर.
चर्चिल थी विशेषकर noted for his speeches और रेडियो प्रसारण, जिससे helped inspire the British people.
he led Britain as प्रधान मंत्री जबतक विजय over नाजी जर्मनी था been secured.
बाद the रूढ़िवादी पार्टी खोया the 1945 चुनाव, he became नेता of the विपक्ष to the श्रमिक ( Attlee ) government.
After winning the 1951 election, he again became प्रधान मंत्री, before retiring in 1955.
upon उसके मौत, एलिज़ाबेथ II granted him the honour of a राज्य अंत्येष्टि, जिससे देखी एक of the largest सभाओं of world कूटनीतिज्ञों in इतिहास.
नामित the Greatest Briton of सब समय in a 2002 poll, चर्चिल is widely regarded as being among the most influential लोगों in अंग्रेजों इतिहास.
माणिक्य gloom is an एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ based on an apparel मताधिकार.
The दिखाएँ is produced by nelvana और began airing on अक्तूबर 13, 2006 in कनाडा on the network ytv.
It सितारों the आवाज़ें of सारा gadon, Emily हैम्पशायर, और पीटर Keleghan.
The Ford Focus is a कॉम्पैक्ट car ( C-segment in यूरोपीय ) manufactured by the घाट Motor Company चूंकि 1998.
Ford began बिक्री of the Focus to यूरोपीय in जुलाई 1998 and in उत्तर America दौरान 1999 लिये the 2000 model साल.
In यूरोपीय, South America, North America और दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी, the फ़ोकस replaced the विभिन्न versions of the Ford अनुरक्षण बेची in those बाज़ार.
In एशिया and Australasia, it replaced the Ford Laser.
As of the first half of 2012, the फ़ोकस surpassed the टोयोटा कोरोला to become the संसार 's best selling automobile nameplate.
the फ़ोकस रै been माना एक of the 50 greatest cars of the पास्ट fifty सालो by अंग्रेजों magazine car.
an आगर थाली -- an उदाहरण of a बैक्टीरियल growth medium.
Specifically, it is a streak plate ; the नारंगी लाइनों और dots are formed by bacterial colonies.
A विकास मीडियम or संस्कृति मीडियम is a द्रव or gel designed to support the विकास of microorganisms or कोशिकाएं, or small plants जैसे the मॉस physcomitrella patens.
वहीँ हैं different प्रकार of मीडिया लिये growing different प्रकार of कोशिकाएं.
वहीँ हैं दो प्रमुख प्रकार of growth मीडिया : those used लिये कोशिका संस्कृति, जिससे उपयोग विशिष्ट कोशिका types derived from पौधे or animals, and microbiological culture, जिससे हैं used for growing microorganisms, ऐसे as जीवाणु or yeast.
The most आम growth media लिये microorganisms हैं nutrient broths और agar प्लेटों ; specialized मीडिया are sometimes जरूरी for microorganism and कोशिका culture विकास.
Some organisms, termed fastidious जीवों, require specialized environments due to complex nutritional आवश्यकताएँ.
वाइरस, लिये उदाहरण, हैं obligate intracellular parasites और आवश्यकता a विकास मीडियम containing जीना कोशिकाएं.
A talent एजेंट, or बुकिंग agent, is a person who finds jobs for अभिनेताओं, लेखक, फिल्मी निर्देशकों, संगीतकारों, models, producers, professional athletes, लेखक और अन्य लोगों in विभिन्न entertainment व्यवसायों.
an एजेंट also defends, supports और promotes the ब्याज of his/her clients.
एजेंटों can नहीं उपज their own shows due to conflict of interest.
a talent एजेंट must be familiar with their clients.
an agent रै to know कया दयालु of कार्य the क्लाएंट can और can नहीं do in order to मैच them साथ विभिन्न jobs.
Having an एजेंट is not जरूरी, but करता सहायता the artist in getting jobs.
in many मामले casting निर्देशकों, or अन्य व्यवसायों, go to हुनर agencies to find कलाकारों they हैं looking for.
the एजेंट is paid a प्रतिशत of the स्टार 's आय ( typically 10 % ).
एजेंटों sometimes होगा be referred to as `` 10 percenters. ''
There हैं अलग regulations that govern अलग प्रकार of एजेंटों कि हैं established by कलाकार 's unions and the विधिक jurisdiction in जिससे the agent operates.
वहीँ हैं also professional संगठन that अनुज्ञा talent एजेंसियों.
चूंकि the decline in viewership in थिएटर, इससे the 1950s to 1960s, इस caused a स्मारकीय शिफ़्ट in कैसा studios होता उपज films और यूँ reducing the लागत of विशेष and महंगी अभिनेताओं.
Actors और अभिनेत्रियों were working लिये the studios लकिन were नहीं स्वामित्व by एक प्रमुख studio entity और so यहूद able to कार्य on within उनके समय और साथ other studios.
क्युकी of इस, agents were अभी देखी as a necessity बजाय of an विकल्प.
Agents अभी became third parties कि negotiated between studios and clients, इस बनाना उनके सेवाएं imperative between प्रत्येक पार्टी.
Since हुनर agencies are working साथ lucrative contracts, सब हुनर एजेंसियों must be licensed अंतर्गत खास भाग of the California Labor कोड, जिससे काल्स an एजेंट a `` person or corporation जो engages in the occupation of procuring, offering, होनहार, or attempting to procure नियुक्ति for कलाकार or artists. ''
मंगल रै दो ज्ञात moons, phobos और deimos, जिससे are विचार to be captured क्षुद्रग्रह.
दोनो satellites were खोजा in 1877 by asaph हॉल और हैं named after the characters phobos ( panic/fear ) और Deimos ( terror/dread ) जो, in Greek mythology, accompanied उनके पिता एरीस, god of युद्ध, into battle.
Ares was ज्ञात as मंगल to the romans.
It is possible कि मंगल may have moons smaller than 50 - 100 मीटर और a dust रिंग between Phobos and Deimos may be उपस्थित but none have महरूम discovered.
in law enforcement parlance, the term हत्या book refers to the case संचिका of a हत्या छानबीन.
Typically, हत्या किताबे शामिल अपराधों झाँकी छायाचित्र और sketches, पोस्टमार्टम और forensic reports, transcripts of investigators ' notes और गवाह साक्षात्कार.
the murder किताब encapsulates the complete पेपर trail of a murder छानबीन, from the time the murder is first reported through the गिरफ़्तार of a suspect.
Law enforcement एजेंसियों typically गार्ड murder किताबे carefully, और it is असामान्य लिये नागरिकों to be दिए आज़ाद access to ये kinds of रिकॉर्ड, विशेषकर for unsolved cases.
A melon baller
Melon balls हैं गेंदें of melon बना using a melon baller that varies इससे around 1 centimeter to 3 सेंटीमीटर ( परिचय 3/8 inch to 1 inch ).
वे हैं generally प्रयुक्त in फल सलाद.
a ksa, or ज्ञान, Skills, और abilities, is a series of narrative statements that are जरूरी जब applying to संयुक्त States संघीय सरकारी जॉब openings.
ksas हैं प्रयुक्त to determine, साथ with resumes, who the best applicants are जब अनेक candidates qualify for a जॉब.
the ज्ञान, skills और abilities ( ksas ) जरुरी लिये the कामयाब प्रदर्शन of a स्थिति are contained on each जॉब रिक्ति घोषणा.
In 2009 the दफ्तर of निजी Management पूछा federal एजेंसियों to रोकें requiring job आवेदकों to भरण out the questionnaires, to be phased out भीतर a साल.
ksas are ब्रैड and focused essays परिचय one 's करियर और शैक्षणिक background कि presumably qualify one to perform the कर्तव्य of the स्थिति being लागू for.
A knowledge, कौशल, और abilities ( ksa ) is a concise essay about एक 's हुनर and expertise and सम्बन्धित experiences ( कार्य, education, स्वयंसेवी ) and accomplishments.
A series of KSA कथन हैं usually जरूरी when applying लिये most federal government और कुछ state and city सरकारी कार्य.
KSAs हैं प्रयुक्त as a गज to assess the सामर्थ्य of a prospective आवेदक in शर्तें of संभावित ability to perform the duties of the जॉब.
सबसे सरकारी भर्ती officials dekh for a short, crisp और clear ksa कि emphasizes results or accomplishments प्राप्त in पिछला work.
ksa कथन are भी known as मूल्यांकन Factors.
अन्य agencies sometimes कॉल उन्हें `` दरजा कारकों '', `` Quality Ranking कारकों '', `` Knowledge, abilities, कौशल and अन्य विशेषताएँ '', or `` जॉब Elements ''.
The name can be बस a नाम लकिन often it प्रभाव सामग्री and लंबाई of the essay.
प्रत्येक agency has its अपना regulations लकिन most of the समय the each ksa factor should be 1/2 to 11⁄2 पृष्ठों long.
the नीचे परिभाषाएं हैं पारिभाषित by the u.S. Office of कर्मियों प्रबन्धन :
ज्ञान, कौशल, और abilities ( KSAs ) - the गुण जरूरी to perform a जॉब और are generally demonstrated through qualifying सेवा, शिक्षा, or प्रशिक्षण.
Knowledge - is a body of सूचना applied directly to the प्रदर्शन of a function.
कौशल - is an observable competence to perform a learned psychomotor अधिनियम.
क्षमता - is competence to perform an observable बर्ताव or a बर्ताव कि results in an observable product.
the स्कोरिंग of KSA essays is आधारित on a स्केल of from एक to 100.
Job applicants must स्कोर above 70 to be माना लिये the स्थिति.
High scores are निकला through answering the KSA question as specifically as संभावित, providing examples from पिछला employment or training that clearly demonstrate तुम meet the योग्यता.
जब applying to federal government positions, a संघीय Resume is usually जरूरी in addition to ksa कथन.
सही
पूरे grains हैं cereal दाने that contain खाद्यान्न रोगाणु, endosperm, and bran, in contrast to refined दाने, जिससे retain only the भ्रूणपोष.
आम पूरे grains include:
गेहूं
Oat
जौ - hulled और dehulled ( not पर्ल )
Maize
भूरा राइस
farro
Spelt
emmer
Einkorn
Kamut
Rye
Millet
Quinoa
चौलाई
triticale
Teff
Sprouted दाने
buckwheat
आम पूरे अनाज उत्पाद include:
पूरे गेहूं आटा
पूरे गेहूं ब्रैड
पूरे गेहूं Pasta
लिपटे oats or oat groats
Triticale आटा
पॉपकॉर्न
Teff flour
Common refined non-whole अनाज products include:
प्रेम Always is the debut album of अमरीकी r & b duo k-ci & JoJo, released on जून 17, 1997, by MCA Records.
it थी अंकित at विभिन्न studios in नई यॉर्क और the Los Angeles area in 1996 और 1997.
it थी उत्पादित by JoJo और several अन्य, सहित DeVante झूले, James Mtume, और Jeff Redd.
the duo यहूद originally a part of jodeci पहले इस album.
the एल्बम peaked at छठे on the US बिलबोर्ड 200 और also appeared on international charts.
The single `` सब My Life `` charted क्रमांक एक in अनेक देशों, और all चार of the album 's singles peaked above the शीर्ष 25 in the US hot R & B/Hip-Hop गीतों and the New जीलैंड शीर्ष 40 singles.
प्रेम सदा थी received favorably by आलोचकों, who praised the brothers ' गायन ability और the उत्पादन.
The एल्बम रै been certified तीन times प्लेटिनम by the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग Association of अमेरिका ( RIAA ) and सुनहरा by म्यूज़िक कनाडा and ifpi स्वीडन.
As of जून 1999 it had sold 2.9 million copies in the United राज्य.
a variable-rate बंधक, adjustable-rate बंधक ( भुजा ), or ट्रैकर mortgage is a mortgage ऋण with the interest rate on the note periodically समायोजित आधारित on an index जिससे reflects the cost to the lender of उधार on the क्रेडिट बाज़ार.
the ऋण may be offered at the lender 's मानक variable चूहाe/ base रेट.
वहीँ may be a सीधा और legally-defined link to the underlying अनुक्रमणिका, लकिन जहाँ the lender offers no विशिष्ट link to the underlying मार्केट or अनुक्रमणिका the रेट can be changed at the lender 's discretion.
The term `` variable-rate बंधक '' is सबसे common बाहर the संयुक्त राज्य, whilst in the United राज्य, `` adjustable-rate बंधक '' is most आम, और implies a mortgage regulated by the संघीय सरकारी, with कैप्स on आरोप.
in many देशों, adjustable रेट mortgages हैं the norm, और in ऐसे places, may बस be referred to as mortgages.
among the सबसे आम indices are the rates on 1-year constant-maturity राजकोष ( cmt ) securities, the Cost of Funds Index ( COFI ), और the लंदन interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ).
A few lenders उपयोग their अपना लागत of निधि as an अनुक्रमणिका, बल्कि than using अन्य indices.
इस is किया to ensure a स्थिर हाशिया for the lender, whose own cost of funding will प्रायः be related to the index.
Consequently, भुगतान बना by the borrower may change over time साथ the बदलना ब्याज रेट ( alternatively, the पद of the loan may बदलें ).
इस is पृथक from the ग्रैजुएट payment बंधक, जिससे offers बदलना payment amounts लकिन a फिक्स्ड interest रेट.
Other forms of mortgage ऋण include the ब्याज only mortgage, the फिक्स्ड rate बंधक, the ऋणात्मक amortization बंधक, और the गुब्बारा payment mortgage.
समायोज्य rates transfer part of the interest रेट रिस्क इससे the lender to the borrower.
They can be प्रयुक्त जहाँ unpredictable ब्याज rates मेक फिक्स्ड rate लोन मुश्किल to obtain.
the borrower लाभ if the ब्याज रेट जलप्रपात but loses if the ब्याज रेट increases.
the borrower benefits इससे reduced margins to the underlying लागत of borrowing compared to fixed or capped रेट mortgages.
the हत्या of रॉबर्ट फ्रांसिस `` bobby '' कैनेडी, a संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटर और brother of assassinated अध्यक्ष जॉन Fitzgerald `` जोकर '' Kennedy, took प्लेस shortly बाद मध्यरात्रि on June 5, 1968, in Los Angeles, California, दौरान the campaign ऋतु लिये the संयुक्त States अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, 1968.
बाद winning the California and दक्षिण Dakota primary चुनावों for the Democratic नामांकन लिये President of the United राज्य, Kennedy थी shot as he walked through the kitchen of the दूत Hotel और died in the शुभ सामरी Hospital twenty-six घंटों later.
sirhan sirhan, a 24-year-old फिलीस्तीनी / जार्डन अप्रवासी, थी convicted of कैनेडी 's हत्या and is serving a जीवन sentence लिये the crime.
Sirhan 's lawyers have released कथन claiming प्रमाण कि he थी framed.
The शूटिंग थी recorded on audio टेप by a freelance newspaper रिपोर्टर, and the aftermath थी captured on फिल्मी.
कैनेडी 's देह lay in repose at st. Patrick 's गिरजाघर in New यॉर्क for दो दिनों पहले a अंत्येष्टि mass was आयोजित on जून 8.
उसके देह was interred near उसके brother John at Arlington National कब्रिस्तान.
उसके death prompted the सुरक्षा of अध्यक्षीय candidates by the संयुक्त राज्य Secret Service.
Hubert humphrey गई on to जीत the Democratic nomination लिये the प्रेसिडेंसी, लकिन ultimately narrowly खोया the चुनाव to Richard निक्सन.
as with his brother जोकर 's मौत, bobby 's हत्या and the हालातों surrounding it have शाखित a variety of conspiracy theories.
As of 2013 Kennedy remains एक of तभी दो sitting संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटरों to be assassinated ( the other होने Huey long ).
The आधुनिक आयु of कॉमिक किताबे is an अनौपचारिक name for the काल in the इतिहास of mainstream अमरीकी comic books generally माना to last from the mid-1980s जबतक present दिन.
in इस काल, कॉमिक किताब वर्ण generally became darker और more psychologically complex, creators became better-known और क्रियाशील in changing the industry, स्वतंत्र कॉमिक्स flourished, और larger publishing घरों became अधिक commercialized.
An वैकल्पिक name लिये इस period is the अंधेरा Age of कॉमिक किताबे, due to the popularity और artistic influence of grim शीर्षक, ऐसे as and Watchmen.
जब हैरी Met सैली... is a 1989 अमरीकी romantic कॉमेडी film लिखा by नोरा Ephron और directed by रोब Reiner.
It सितारों Billy क्रिस्टल as हैरी and मेग Ryan as सैली.
the story फ़ॉलो the title characters इससे the time वे मिलें बस पहले sharing a cross-country ड्राइव, through बारह years or so of मौका encounters in नई यॉर्क नगर.
the फिल्मी raises the सवाल `` can men और women कभी just be मित्रों ? '' and अग्रिम many ideas परिचय संबंध that became household अवधारणाओं, such as those of the `` '' girlfriend and the `` transitional person ''.
the origins of the film आए from reiner 's return to सिंगल life after a तलाक.
an इंटरव्यू ephron conducted साथ reiner provided the basis for Harry.
सैली थी based on ephron और some of उसके मित्रों.
क्रिस्टल आए on फलक और made उसके अपना contributions to the screenplay, बनाना Harry funnier.
Ephron supplied the ढांचा of the फिल्मी साथ much of the dialogue आधारित on the real-life दोस्ती between reiner and क्रिस्टल.
the साउंडट्रैक consists of standards performed by हैरी Connick, Jr., साथ a बिग बैंड और ऑर्केस्ट्रा arranged by Marc Shaiman.
Connick जीती उसके पहला ग्रैमी Award लिये बेहतरीन जैज़ Male गायन Performance.
Columbia Pictures released the film using the `` मंच '' तकनीक, जिससे शामिल खोलने it in a few select cities, letting धनात्मक word of mouth generate interest, और तब धीरे expanding वितरण over subsequent सप्ताह.
When हैरी मिले सैली... grossed a कुल of US $ 92.8 लाख in उत्तर अमेरिका.
Ephron प्राप्त a अंग्रेजों अकादमी Film पुरस्कार, an Oscar नामांकन, and a Writers Guild of अमेरिका Award nomination लिये उसके पटकथा.
The फिल्मी is क्रमित 23rd on एएफआई 's 100 Years... 100 Laughs सूची of the top कॉमेडी films in American सिनेमा and number 60 on ब्रावो 's `` 100 funniest Movies ''.
In जल्दी 2004, the film थी adapted for the स्टेज in a उत्पादन starring Luke पेरी and Alyson Hannigan.
200px
Hamburger Helper is a लकीर of packaged खाना उत्पाद primarily consisting of boxed पास्ता bundled साथ a packet or पैकेट्स of powdered सॉस or seasonings.
The contents of प्रत्येक बक्सा are संयुक्त साथ browned मैदान बीफ, जल और मिल्क to create a complete dish.
the product line भी features products साथ अन्य starches such as rice or आलू बजाय of पास्ता.
it is बना by सामान्य मिलों.
हालांकि the classic boxed हैमबर्गर Helper उत्पाद तभी supply the मंड item and the सॉस packets, some varieties of the उत्पाद शामिल ground बीफ.
ये include a frozen food लकीर, जिससे features some of the brand 's क्लासिक किस्में in a पूरा meal kit form, साथ frozen मैदान beef और frozen सॉस packaged separately इससे the noodles in the same थैला.
There is भी an `` instant '' version of हैमबर्गर हेल्पर containing निर्जलित meat, नूडल्स and seasonings in a छोटी थैली, requiring तभी water to be added.
the हैमबर्गर Helper mascot is the `` Helping हाथ '', an anthropomorphic animated, चार fingered left-hand दस्ताने, जिससे appears in the product 's television commercials and on the packages.
Ceres as देखी साथ the Hubble स्पेस Telescope.
it is the तभी dwarf ग्रह in the क्षुद्रग्रह बेल्ट.
Pluto in सन्निकट सच्चा रंग based on हबल Space दूरदर्शी albedo आंकड़ा
Haumea with इसके moons, Hiʻiaka और namaka ( कलाकार 's धारणा )
Makemake ( कलाकार 's धारणा )
Eris और its चंद्रमा dysnomia as seen with the हबल स्पेस दूरदर्शी
a बौना planet is a planetary-mass ऑब्जेक्ट कि is neither a ग्रह nor a उपग्रह.
अधिक explicitly, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय खगोलीय Union ( iau ) defines a dwarf ग्रह as a celestial body in सीधा कक्षा of the Sun that is विशाल enough लिये इसके आकार to be controlled by gravitation, लकिन कि नापसंद a ग्रह रै नहीं cleared its orbital प्रदेश of अन्य वस्तुएँ.
The पद बौना planet was adopted in 2006 as part of a three-way categorization of bodies orbiting the सूर्य, brought about by an बढ़ाएँ in discoveries of trans-Neptunian objects कि rivaled Pluto in size, and आखिरकार precipitated by the डिस्कवरी of an even अधिक विशाल object, Eris.
इस classification राज्य that bodies विशाल पर्याप्त to have cleared the neighbourhood of उनके orbit हैं पारिभाषित as ग्रह, while those that are not विशाल enough to be rounded by their अपना गम्भीरता are पारिभाषित as छोटी सौर System लाशें.
बौना ग्रह आइये in between.
The exclusion of dwarf ग्रह इससे the roster of planets by the iau has महरूम both praised और criticized ; it थी कहा to be the `` right निर्णय '' by माइक Brown, who discovered and अन्य new बौना ग्रह, लकिन रै महरूम rejected by एलन Stern, जो था coined the पद dwarf ग्रह in 1990.
the iau currently recognizes पाँच बौना ग्रह in the Solar System :, प्लूटो,,, और.
However, तभी दो of these bodies, ceres और प्लूटो, have been observed in enough विवरण to demonstrate that वे fit the परिभाषा.
eris रै महरूम स्वीकृत as a बौना ग्रह क्युकी it is अधिक विशाल than Pluto.
the iau subsequently decided कि unnamed trans-neptunian वस्तुएँ साथ an निरपेक्ष magnitude brighter than +1 ( and hence a diameter of ≥838 km assuming a geometric ऐल्बीडो of ≤1 ) हैं to be नामित under the assumption that they are बौना ग्रह.
the only दो ऐसे वस्तुएँ known at the समय, Makemake और हउमेया, गई through this naming कार्यविधि and यहूद घोषित to be dwarf planets.
it is suspected कि another सौ or so known objects in the सौर प्रणाली हैं बौना ग्रह.
Estimates हैं कि up to 200 बौना ग्रह may be मिला जब the entire प्रदेश ज्ञात as the kuiper बेल्ट is छान, और that the क्रमांक may exceed 10,000 जब वस्तुएँ scattered बाहर the Kuiper belt हैं considered.
Individual खगोलशास्त्रियों recognize several of these, and in अगस्त 2011 Mike Brown प्रकाशित a list of 390 candidate objects, ranging इससे `` nearly certain '' to `` possible '' बौना ग्रह. '
Brown identifies nine ज्ञात वस्तुएँ – the five accepted by the iau प्लस,,, and – as `` वस्तुतः certain '', साथ another दो दर्जन अत्यधिक संभावित, और वहीँ are probably a सौ or so such objects in कुल.
the वर्गीकरण of लाशें in other ग्रहीय प्रणालियों with the विशेषताएँ of dwarf ग्रह has नहीं been addressed.
a डेबिट card ( भी ज्ञात as a bank कार्ड or जाँच कार्ड ) is a प्लास्टिक भुगतान कार्ड कि provides the cardholder इलेक्ट्रॉनिक access to his or her बैंको खाता ( s ) at a financial संस्था.
कुछ cards have a stored मान साथ which a भुगतान is made, while सबसे रिले a संदेश to the cardholder 's bank to withdraw funds from a payee 's designated बैंको खाता.
The कार्ड, जहाँ स्वीकृत, can be used instead of नकदी when बनाना purchases.
in some मामले, the प्राथमिक account number is assigned exclusively लिये use on the अंतरजाल और there is no physical card.
in many देशों, the उपयोग of डेबिट cards रै become so फैली that their आवाज़ रै overtaken or entirely replaced cheques and, in कुछ उदाहरण, नकदी ट्रांजेक्शन.
The development of debit ताश, नापसंद क्रेडिट ताश और चार्ज cards, रै generally been देश विशिष्ट resulting in a number of अलग systems around the संसार, which were प्रायः असंगत.
चूंकि the mid-2000s, a number of पहलों have allowed डेबिट ताश issued in एक country to be used in अन्य देशों and अनुमत उनके use लिये अंतरजाल and फोन purchases.
नापसंद क्रेडिट और charge ताश, भुगतान using a debit कार्ड are तत्काल transferred इससे the cardholder 's designated बैंको खाता, बजाय of उन्हें paying the money वापस at a बाद तिथि.
Debit cards प्रायः भी allow for तत्काल वापसी of cash, एक्टिंग as the एटीएम कार्ड लिये withdrawing नकदी.
व्यापारियों may also प्रस्ताव cashback सुविधाएं to ग्राहक, जहाँ a customer can withdraw cash along साथ उनके purchase.
francois Henri `` Jack '' lalanne ( सितंबर 26, 1914 - जनवरी 23, 2011 ) was an अमरीकी फ़िटनेस, कसरत, और nutritional expert और motivational speaker जो is sometimes called `` the गॉडफादर of फ़िटनेस '' और the `` first fitness सुपरहीरो. ''
he described खुद as being a `` sugarholic '' and a `` जंक खाना junkie '' जबतक he थी 15.
He भी था behavioral problems, लकिन `` turned उसके life around '' after listening to a public लेक्चर by Paul ब्रैग, a well-known पोषण स्पीकर.
दौरान उसके करियर, he came to believe कि the देश 's overall स्वास्थ्य depended on the health of its जनसांख्यिकी, लिखने कि `` physical culture और पोषण — is the salvation of America. ''
दशकों before health and fitness began being promoted by हस्तियाँ जैसे जेन Fonda और Richard Simmons, LaLanne थी already widely पहचाना लिये सरेआम उपदेश the health लाभ of regular कसरत and a शुभ आहार.
he प्रकाशित numerous books on fitness and hosted a फ़िटनेस टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ between 1953 और 1985.
as early as 1936, at आयु 21, he opened एक of the स्वदेश 's first फ़िटनेस gyms in ओकलैंड, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, which became a प्रोटोटाइप for दर्जनों of समान gyms using उसके name.
One of उसके 1950s television कसरत कार्यक्रम थी aimed toward women, whom he भी प्रोत्साहित to जुड़ें his स्वास्थ्य clubs.
he invented a क्रमांक of exercise machines, including leg-extension and चरखी डिवाइस.
besides producing उसके अपना series of वीडियो, he coached the बुजुर्ग and disabled not to forgo कसरत, believing it would enable them to बढ़ाएँ उनके शक्ति.
LaLanne also gained मान्यता for उसके कामयाबी as a bodybuilder, as खूब as लिये उसके prodigious feats of शक्ति.
अर्नाल्ड श्वार्ज़नेगर एकबार stated, `` कि Jack LaLanne 's an एनिमल !, '' बाद LaLanne, at 54, ताल a 21-year-old श्वार्ज़नेगर `` badly '' in an अनौपचारिक contest.
on the अवसर of lalanne 's death, Schwarzenegger credited LaLanne लिये होने `` an apostle लिये फ़िटनेस '' by प्रेरणादायी `` अरबों all over the world to live healthier जीवनदान, '' और, as governor of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, had पहले लगाई him on उसके Governor 's परिषद on Physical फ़िटनेस.
स्टीव रीव्स credited LaLanne as his प्रेरणा to निर्माण उसके muscular physique जबकि keeping a पतला कमर.
He थी inducted to the कैलिफ़ोर्निया हॉल of Fame and रै a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
Air शक्तियां of सबसे of the देशों use प्रणाली similar to सेना.
However, the RAF and the एयर forces of अनेक राष्ट्रमंडल देशों, or those formerly अंतर्गत a अंग्रेजों influence, उपयोग a different नियत of बाँधने loosely based on नवल समतुल्यता ; लेफ्टिनेंट, Commander, कप्तान and Commodore हैं prefixed लिये air फ़ोर्स use with Flight, wing, Group और Air, क्रमशः ( the पहला three होने the इकाई कि वे used to command ).
Penélope क्रूज़ Sánchez ( ; born April 28, 1974 ) is a Spanish actress.
Signed by an एजेंट at आयु 15, वो बना her एक्टिंग डेब्यू at 16 on टेलीविज़न और उसके विशेषता फिल्मी डेब्यू the following year in Jamón, jamón ( 1992 ), to नाजुक acclaim.
उसके subsequent roles in the 1990s and 2000s शामिल खोलें Your आँखें ( 1997 ), the Hi-Lo Country ( 1999 ), The लड़की of अपना सपनो ( 2000 ) और Woman on शीर्ष ( 2000 ).
क्रूज़ achieved recognition for her lead roles in the 2001 films वैनिला आसमान और Blow.
She has since निर्मित a कामयाब करियर, appearing in films इससे a चौड़ी दायरा of जाति, सहित the comedy waking Up in Reno ( 2002 ), the thriller gothika ( 2003 ), the Christmas movie Noel ( 2004 ), और the कार्रवाई adventure Sahara ( 2005 ).
वो has प्राप्त नाजुक acclaim for उसके भूमिकाएँ in Volver ( 2006 ) and नौ ( 2009 ) receiving Golden ग्लोब and अकादमी पुरस्कार nominations लिये each.
She won the अकादमी पुरस्कार for बेहतरीन Supporting Actress in 2008 for विक्की क्रिस्टीना बार्सिलोना.
She was the पहला Spanish actress in history to receive an अकादमी Award और the पहला Spanish अभिनेत्री to receive a star at the हॉलीवुड चलना of कीर्ति.
क्रूज़ रै modeled for कंपनियाँ such as Mango, ralph लॉरेन और l'oréal.
Penélope और उसके younger सिस्टर mónica क्रूज़ have designed items लिये आम.
She has दान दोनो her time and धन to charities.
क्रूज़ रै volunteered in युगांडा and इण्डिया, जहाँ वो खर्च one सप्ताह working लिये Mother टेरेसा ; वो दान उसके सैलरी इससे ' to सहायता fund the late nun 's मिशन.
A wax मूर्तिकला of क्रूज़ होगा be placed in a premier spot in the grevin मोम संग्रहालय in पेरिस.
File एक्सप्लोरर, previously ज्ञात as खिड़कियाँ एक्सप्लोरर, is a file मैनेजर application और also a नेविगेशन औजार कि is included साथ रिलीज of the Microsoft Windows operating प्रणाली from खिड़कियाँ 95 onwards.
It provides a आलेखीय उपयोक्ता interface लिये accessing the file systems.
it is भी the घटक of the operating प्रणाली that presents अनेक उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस items on the monitor ऐसे as the taskbar और desktop.
controlling the कंप्यूटर is possible बगैर Windows Explorer कार्यशील ( लिये उदाहरण, the File | Run कमांड in कार्य मैनेजर on nt-derived versions of Windows will फलन बगैर it, as होगा commands typed in a कमांड संकेत खिड़की ).
स्तिथ in the c : \खिड़कीs निर्देशिका, it is sometimes referred to as the Windows शेल, explorer.exe, or simply “Explorer”.
the परवाह bears are वर्ण निर्मित by अमरीकी बधाई in 1981 लिये उपयोग on ग्रीटिंग ताश.
the original कलाकृति for the ताश थी चित्रित by कलाकार Elena kucharik.
In 1983, Kenner turned the Care Bears into plush teddy bears.
the परवाह bears appeared in उनके own TV specials called the परवाह bears in the जमीन बगैर Feelings ( 1983 ) और The Care bears Battle the फ्रीज यंत्र ( 1984 ).
वे भी था उनके अपना टेलीविज़न श्रेणी इससे 1985 to 1988, in जोड to three विशेषता films : the Care Bears Movie ( 1985 ), Care Bears फिल्म ii : a नई Generation ( 1986 ), और The परवाह bears एडवेंचर in वंडरलैंड ( 1987 ).
Each परवाह भालू comes in a अलग color and has a specialized तमगा on इसके belly कि represents its ड्यूटी और व्यक्तित्व.
This insignia थी known as their `` tummy प्रतीक. ''
however, the movie Care Bears : oopsy Does it ! renamed them `` पेट बैज ''.
Adding to the परवाह भालू family हैं the `` परवाह भालू Cousins '', जिससे feature a शेर, खरगोश, पेंगुइन, raccoon, और अन्य ऐसे पशु निर्मित in the वही style as the teddy bears.
in 2002, the bears यहूद reintroduced with नई खिलौने.
Made by play-along खिलौने, the new खिलौने offered features ऐसे as illuminated bellies upon touch, एरोबिक bears, and glow-in-the-dark bears.
As भाग of इस comeback, the Bears have appeared in दो computer-animated movies : Care bears : Journey to joke-a-lot ( 2004 ) and the Care Bears ' Big Wish Movie ( 2005 ).
in 2007, the मताधिकार मनाये इसके 25th anniversary ; another relaunch took place, as well as the रिलीज of Care Bears : Oopsy करता it !.
In mid-2011, ag announced a पुनरुद्धार TV एनिमेटेड श्रेणी titled `` Care Bears : स्वागत to Care-a-Lot ``.
the प्रीमियर of the श्रेणी utilizes `` 30 years of देखभाल ''.
it premiered on the हब on June 2, 2012.
as of 2013, परवाह bears merchandise is स्टिल होने marketed.
During 2008 and 2009, कनाडा 's Cookie जार Group and फ़्रांस 's MoonScoop समूह attempted to acquire the मताधिकार इससे agc, साथ no apparent कामयाबी.
Interstate 70 ( i-70 ) is an अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग in the संयुक्त राज्य कि runs इससे Interstate 15 near Cove फोर्ट, यूटा, to a पार्क और सवारी निकट Baltimore, Maryland.
it was the first अंतरराज्यीय Highway project in the संयुक्त राज्य.
i-70 लगभग traces the पाथ of u.S. रूट 40 ( और भी the old नेशनल सड़क ) ईस्ट of the रॉकी Mountains.
West of the rockies, the route of I-70 थी निकला इससे अनेक स्त्रोत.
i-70 is the पांचवां longest Interstate Highway, बाद i-90, i-80, I-40, और i-10.
The construction of I-70 in Colorado और यूटा is माना an engineering आश्चर्य as the route passes through the आइज़नहावर टनल, Glenwood canyon, और the सैन राफेल swell.
the आइज़नहावर Tunnel is the उच्चतम पाइंट साथ the अंतरराज्यीय Highway system with an उन्नयन of.
the sections of the अंतरराज्यीय in Missouri and Kansas have रखी claim to be the पहला अंतरराज्यीय in the संयुक्त राज्य.
हालांकि विवादित, the संघीय Highway प्रशासन रै claimed the section of i-70 through glenwood canyon, समाप्त in 1992, थी the पिछला piece of the अंतरराज्यीय Highway प्रणाली, as originally planned, to खोलें to traffic.
Photo of 1999 कुल ग्रहण
As देखी from the Earth, a solar ग्रहण occurs जब the चंद्रमा passes between the सूर्य और Earth, और the चंद्रमा fully or partially blocks ( `` occults `` ) the सूर्य.
This can happen तभी at नई चंद्रमा, when the Sun and the चंद्रमा are in संयोजन as देखी from धरती in an संरेखण referred to as syzygy.
in a कुल ग्रहण, the डिस्क of the सूर्य is fully obscured by the चंद्रमा.
in आंशिक and annular eclipses तभी part of the सूर्य is obscured.
if the Moon यहूद in a perfectly circular orbit, a little करीब to the Earth, और in the वही orbital plane, वहीँ होता be कुल solar eclipses प्रत्येक सिंगल month.
however, the Moon 's orbit is inclined ( tilted ) at अधिक than 5 डिग्री to धरती 's orbit around the सूर्य ( देखिए ecliptic ) so its shadow at new चंद्रमा usually चूकें Earth.
Earth 's कक्षा is पुकारा the ecliptic plane as the Moon 's कक्षा must क्रॉस this plane in order लिये an ग्रहण ( both solar as well as चंद्र ) to occur.
in addition, the Moon 's actual कक्षा is अंडाकार, often taking it दूर पर्याप्त दूर इससे धरती कि इसके apparent size is नहीं विशाल पर्याप्त to ब्लाक the Sun totally.
the कक्षीय planes cross प्रत्येक साल at a लकीर of नोड resulting in at least दो, और up to five, सौर eclipses occurring प्रत्येक साल ; no अधिक than दो of जिससे can be कुल eclipses.
However, कुल solar eclipses हैं विरल at कोई particular स्थान क्युकी totality exists तभी along a सीमित पाथ on धरती 's सतह traced by the चंद्रमा 's shadow or umbra.
An ग्रहण is a प्राकृतिक घटना.
nevertheless, in कुछ ancient और आधुनिक cultures, solar eclipses have been attributed to अलौकिक कल्याणकारी or regarded as ख़राब शकुनों.
a total solar eclipse can be frightening to लोगों जो हैं बेखबर of इसके खगोलीय explanation, as the सूर्य seems to disappear दौरान the दिन और the sky darkens in a matter of मिनट्स.
क्युकी it is dangerous to dekh सीधे at the Sun, observers चाहिए उपयोग खास नजर protection or अप्रत्यक्ष देखने तकनीकों जब viewing a partial eclipse, or the partial phases of a कुल ग्रहण.
it is safe to दृश्य the total phase of a कुल सौर eclipse साथ the unaided eye and बगैर सुरक्षा, however.
लोगों referred to as ग्रहण chasers or umbraphiles होगा सफर to रिमोट locations to observe or गवाह predicted central सौर eclipses.
a राजनैतिक पार्टी ( from, genitive partis, `` भाग '', `` portion '' ) is a राजनैतिक संगठन कि typically seeks to influence, or entirely कंट्रोल, government नीति, usually by nominating उम्मीदवार with aligned राजनैतिक दृश्य and trying to सीट उन्हें in राजनैतिक दफ्तर.
पार्टियों participate in electoral अभियान and educational outreach or protest क्रियाएँ.
Parties प्रायः espouse an ideology or vision, expressed in a पार्टी कार्यक्रम, bolstered by a लिखा मंच with विशिष्ट goals, forming a गठबन्धन among disparate रूचि.
the mango is a मांसल stone फल belonging to the genus Mangifera, consisting of numerous तीव्र fruiting trees in the flowering संयंत्र family anacardiaceae.
The आम is native to South Asia, इससे जहाँ it रै महरूम वितरित विश्वव्यापी to become एक of the सबसे cultivated फल in the ऊष्णकटिबन्ध.
जबकि अन्य Mangifera प्रजाति ( e.g. घोड़ा आम, M. foetida ) are also grown on a more localized आधार, mangifera indica – the 'common mango ' or 'इण्डियाn आम ' – is the तभी आम पेड़ commonly cultivated in many तीव्र and उपोष्ण regions.
it is the नेशनल फल of इण्डिया, पाकिस्तानी और फिलीपीन.
in अनेक cultures, इसके फल और पत्ते हैं ritually प्रयुक्त as floral decorations at weddings, public जश्न और religious ceremonies.
Gill Arnette byrd, < ref नाम > एचटीटीपी : //www.pro-football-reference.com/players/B/ByrdGi00.htm ( born February 20, 1961 in San फ्रांसिस्को, कैलिफ़ोर्निया ) is a पूर्व पेशेवर अमरीकी football player.
he थी a दो समय प्रो Bowl cornerback in 1991 और 1992 लिये the सैन डिएगो Chargers बाद graduating इससे San जोस State विश्वविद्यालयों.
byrd was inducted into the chargers हॉल of Fame in 1998.
he was an all-city running वापस और defensive back at Lowell High School ( सैन Francisco ), helping to सीसे the Cardinals to the नगर चैंपियनशिप in his senior season of 1978.
संसार map showing the Tropic of कर्कट
the Tropic of कर्कट, भी referred to as the उत्तरी tropic, is the वृत्त of अक्षांश on the धरती कि marks the सबसे northerly position at which the सूर्य may appear directly ओवरहेड at इसके zenith.
इस इवेंट occurs एकबार प्रति साल, at the time of the जून solstice, when the उत्तरी गोलार्ध is tilted toward the सूर्य to इसके अधिकतम extent.
it फिलहाल ( Year 2013 ) lies at 23° 26′ 15.143′′ north of the Equator.
इसके Southern Hemisphere बंटवारा, marking the सबसे southerly position at which the सूर्य may appear directly ओवरहेड, is the Tropic of Capricorn.
These ऊष्णकटिबन्ध हैं दो of the पाँच प्रमुख उपाधि उपायों or प्रमुख वृत्त of अक्षांश कि mark मानचित्र of the धरती, besides the Arctic and अंटार्कटिक वृत्त और the equator.
the स्थितियाँ of ये circles of अक्षांश ( अन्य than the equator ) हैं लिखवाई by the झुकाव of the धरती 's axis of rotation सापेक्ष to the प्लेन of इसके orbit.
dvd-video is a उपभोक्ता video format used to स्टोर डिजिटल वीडियो on dvd discs, और is फिलहाल the dominant उपभोक्ता video स्वरूप in एशिया, उत्तर अमेरिका, यूरोपीय, और Australia.
discs using the DVD-Video specification आवश्यकता a DVD ड्राइव and an H.262/MPEG-2 भाग 2 decoder ( e.g., a DVD खिलाड़ी, or a computer DVD ड्राइव with a तन्त्र dvd खिलाड़ी ).
वाणिज्यिक dvd movies are एनकोडेड using a combination of h.262/mpeg-2 Part 2 संपीडित video and audio of varying formats ( प्रायः multi-channel स्वरुप as वर्णित below ).
Typically, the data रेट लिये dvd फिल्मों सीमाएँ from 3 Mbit/s to 9.5 mbit/s, and the बिट रेट is usually अनुकूली.
It थी पहला available लिये retail around 1997.
the dvd-video specification थी निर्मित by dvd फ़ोरम और can be प्राप्त from DVD format/logo लाइसेंसिंग निगम लिये a शुल्क of $ 5,000.
the specification is not publicly उपलब्धियाँ, because प्रत्येक सदस्य जरूर sign a non-disclosure agreement.
Certain information in the dvd किताब is मालिकाना और confidential.
in कम्प्यूटिंग और specifically Internet, a leech is एक who benefits, प्रायः deliberately, from अन्य ' सूचना or effort but does नहीं प्रस्ताव anything in वापसी, or makes तभी token offerings in an attempt to avoid होने called a leech.
In economics, इस type of बर्ताव is called `` free riding '' and is associated with the फ़्री सवार प्रॉब्लम.
Depending on कॉन्टेक्स्ट, leeching does नहीं necessarily refer to illegal use of computer resources, लकिन often instead to लालची उपयोग according to तहज़ीब : to wit, using too much of कया is freely दिए बगैर contributing a reasonable amount वापस to the जातियाँ कि provides it.
The नाम derives from the leech, an animal that झंझट रक्त and तब tries to leave unnoticed.
अन्य terms are प्रयुक्त, such as `` freeloader '', लकिन leech is the सबसे आम.
the पूरा eagle logo, प्रयुक्त in various संस्करण इससे 1970 to 1993.
the संयुक्त States डाक सेवा ( usps ), भी known as the पोस्ट दफ्तर और u.S. Mail, is an independent एजेंसी of the संयुक्त States federal government responsible for providing postal सेवा in the संयुक्त राज्य.
it is एक of the few government एजेंसियों explicitly authorized by the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान.
the USPS traces its जड़ें to 1775 during the Second Continental Congress, where बेंजामिन Franklin थी नियुक्त the first postmaster सामान्य.
The cabinet-level पोस्ट दफ्तर Department was निर्मित in 1792 इससे फ्रैंकलिन 's operation और रूपांतरित into its वर्तमान रूप in 1971 under the Postal Reorganization अधिनियम.
The USPS employs over 574,000 workers and operates over 260,000 वाहनों.
the USPS is the ऑपरेटर of the largest vehicle बेड़े in the संसार.
the USPS is legally obligated to serve सब Americans, regardless of भूगोल, at वर्दी दाम और quality.
the USPS रै विशेष access to letter boxes चिह्नित `` U.S. मेल '' और personal letterboxes in the संयुक्त राज्य, लकिन still competes विरूद्ध निजी पैकेज डिलीवरी सेवाएं, ऐसे as UPS और fedex.
The usps has नहीं directly प्राप्त taxpayer-dollars since the जल्दी 1980s साथ the नाबालिग एक्सेप्शन of subsidies लिये लागत संबद्ध with the disabled and overseas मतदाता.
चूंकि the 2006 all-time peak मेल volume, बाद जिससे कॉंग्रेस passed the डाक Accountability and Enhancement अधिनियम ``, ( जिससे mandated $ 5.5 billion प्रति साल to be सशुल्क into an खाता to pre-fund retiree health-care, 75 years into the भविष्य, a आवश्यकता अद्वितीय among organizations और businesses in the u.S. ), आय dropped sharply due to recession-influenced घटती mail volume, prompting the डाक सेवा to dekh to other sources of revenue जबकि cutting लागत to reduce its budget deficit.
वॉशिंगटन, D.C. has महरूम the capital of the संयुक्त राज्य since 1800.
आठ अन्य शहरों have परोसा as the बैठक place लिये कॉंग्रेस और are therefore माना to have एकबार महरूम the capital of the संयुक्त States.
in addition, each of the 50 U.S. states and the five प्रिंसिपल territories of the संयुक्त राज्य maintains its अपना पूंजी.
Princess काटें डायमंड set in a ring
The राजकुमारी cut is the दूसरी सबसे popular काटें आकार लिये ईंट, अगला to a गोलाकार brilliant.
The face-up आकार of the राजकुमारी cut is square or आयताकार और the प्रोफ़ाइल or side-on आकार is समान to कि of an inverted pyramid साथ four beveled sides.
the राजकुमारी काटें is a relatively नई डायमंड काटें, having महरूम created in the 1960s.
it रै gained in लोकप्रियता in recent सालो as a more distinctive alternative to the अधिक लोकप्रिय round brilliant cut, in जिससे the शीर्ष of डायमंड, पुकारा the क्राउन, is cut with a गोलाकार face-up आकार और the bottom, called the pavilion, is तराशा similar to a कोन.
A princess cut with the वही width as the व्यास of a round brilliant होगा weigh अधिक as it has चार corners जिससे होता वरना have महरूम cut off और rounded to form a गोलाकार brilliant.
the princess cut is sometimes referred to as a वर्गाकार परिवर्धित शानदार.
However, while displaying the same high degree of brilliance, इसके faceting style is अद्वितीय और completely अलग from that of a गोलाकार शानदार.
the राजकुमारी काटें था इसके origins in the जल्दी `` फ्रेंच '' काटें, having a step-modified `` Double-French '' or `` क्रॉस '' cut crown और a श्रेणी of अद्वितीय, chevron-shaped facets in the pavilion जिससे combine to दे a पृथक cross-shaped प्रतिबिंब जब the स्टोन is viewed directly through the table.
effectively, the राजकुमारी cut combines the high उपाधि of लाइट वापसी of a गोलाकार शानदार काटें साथ a distinctive square or rectangular shape.
the वर्गाकार राजकुमारी काटें डायमंड is usually slightly सस्ता than गोलाकार brilliant काटें ईंट of the वही carat weight because it retains परिचय 80 % of the rough डायमंड, as opposed to the गोलाकार brilliant which retains तभी परिचय 50 % of the rough.
The ability to retain अधिक क्रिस्टल weight makes इस shape popular amongst डायमंड cutters.
accredited gem appraisers ( आगा ) और अमरीकी Gem समाज प्रयोगशाला ( agsl ) और यूरोपीय Gem laboratories-usa ( EGL-USA ) are फिलहाल the only लैब्स कि ग्रेड the राजकुमारी cut for काटें.
वहीँ is no universal definition of what माप मेक an ideal princess काटें डायमंड और अनेक डायमंड manufacturers market ideal diamonds with differing facet पैटर्न और angles as `` ideal काटें ''.
In कंट्रास्ट to the agsl, आगा, and EGL-USA the Gemological संस्थान of अमेरिका ( gia ) रै stated that वहीँ is not enough industry सर्वसम्मति or अनुभवजन्य आंकड़ा to बताएँ काटें ग्रेडिंग मानकों लिये Princess काटें diamonds और to do so is at the risk of consumers जो may be धोखे by ईंट accompanied by निर्गुण आदर्श or Excellent cut ग्रेड.
the नाम `` Princess Cut '' थी originally used in कनेक्शन with another डायमंड काटें, वरना ज्ञात as the `` Profile '' cut, designed by Arpad nagy, a London कटर, in 1961.
the वही name थी बाद used और बना popular by Ygal पर्लमैन, betzalel Ambar, और Israel itzkowitz in इसराईल in 1979.
a similar काटें साथ only 49 facets, as opposed to the असली 58 facets of the राजकुमारी काटें, was बाद branded the `` quadrillion '' और initially वितरित by ambar ईंट in लॉस Angeles.
तीन years of ऑप्टिकल research yielded a वर्गाकार stone साथ faceting समान to कि of a गोलाकार शानदार काटें डायमंड.
a तुलना
the number of chevrons can affect the overall outlook of a राजकुमारी काटें डायमंड.
इस can usually be संकल्पित by the तार diagram कि is plotted in diamond ग्रेडिंग reports.
By adding more chevrons on the pavilion पक्ष of the diamond, the individual facets of the डायमंड होगा now be टूटा bas into छोटी facets.
as a परिणाम, it can दे a princess cut डायमंड a `` कुचल बर्फ '' dekh.
Vice versa, जब a princess cut diamond रै lesser chevrons, it tends to दे the diamond a chunky आउटलुक due to broader facets.
the घरेलू dog ( canis lupus familiaris ) is a subspecies of the gray wolf ( canis lupus ), a member of the कैनिडाए family of the mammalian अनुक्रम carnivora.
The पद `` domestic श्वान '' is generally used लिये दोनो domesticated और feral किस्में.
the श्वान रै been the पहला एनिमल to be domesticated और रै been the सबसे widely रखा working, शिकार, and पालतु एनिमल in human history.
The शब्द `` श्वान '' may भी mean the पुरूष of a canine प्रजाति, as opposed to the word `` कुतिया '' लिये the female of the प्रजाति.
mtdna evidence shows an विकासवादी विभाजित between the आधुनिक श्वान 's lineage and the आधुनिक भेड़िया 's lineage around 100,000 सालो पहले लकिन,, the oldest fossil नमूनों genetically linked to the आधुनिक श्वान 's lineage date to लगभग 33,000-36,000 सालो पहले.
कुत्तो ' मान to जल्दी इंसान hunter-gatherers led to उन्हें quickly बनने ubiquitous across संसार संस्कृतियों.
Dogs perform many भूमिकाएँ for people, ऐसे as शिकार, herding, pulling loads, सुरक्षा, assisting पुलिस और military, companionship, and, अधिक recently, aiding विकलांग individuals.
इस प्रभाव on इंसान society has given them the उपनाम `` Man 's Best dost '' in the पश्चिमी संसार.
in कुछ cultures, कुत्तो are भी a सोर्स of मांस.
In 2001, वहीँ यहूद अनुमानित to be 400 million dogs in the world.
सबसे breeds of कुत्तो हैं at सबसे a few hundred सालो बूढ़ा, having been artificially selected लिये particular morphologies और behaviors by लोगों लिये विशिष्ट कार्यात्मक roles.
through this चयनात्मक प्रजनन, the श्वान has developed into hundreds of varied breeds, and shows अधिक behavioral और morphological variation than कोई अन्य जमीन स्तनधारी.
लिये example, ऊँचाई measured to the withers ranges इससे in the चिहुआहुआ to परिचय in the Irish Wolfhound ; रंग varies from श्वेत through grays ( usually called `` ब्लू '' ) to black, and browns from light ( tan ) to अंधेरा ( `` रेड '' or `` chocolate '' ) in a चौड़ी विभिन्नता of पैटर्न ; coats can be छोटी or long, coarse-haired to wool-like, straight, घुंघराले, or smooth.
it is आम लिये सबसे breeds to shed this coat.
आरेख of a हस्तांतरण electron microscope
a 1973 Siemens electron सूक्ष्मदर्शी, musée des कला et métiers, पेरिस
An इलेक्ट्रॉन सूक्ष्मदर्शी ( em ) is a type of microscope कि uses an electron beam to illuminate a नमूना और उपज a magnified image.
An EM रै वृहद resolving power than a लाइट सूक्ष्मदर्शी और can खुलासा the structure of smaller objects क्युकी electrons have wavelengths परिचय 100,000 times shorter than visible light photons.
वे can achieve बेहतर than 50 pm resolution and magnifications of up to about 10,000,000x whereas ordinary, non-confocal लाइट microscopes are सीमित by diffraction to about 200 nm resolution and useful magnifications नीचे 2000x.
the इलेक्ट्रॉन microscope उपयोग electrostatic और electromagnetic lenses to कंट्रोल the electron बीम and focus it to रूप an चित्र.
ये इलेक्ट्रॉन ऑप्टिकल lenses are analogous to the glass lenses of a light optical microscope.
इलेक्ट्रॉन microscopes हैं प्रयुक्त to investigate the ultrastructure of a wide दायरा of biological and inorganic नमूनों सहित microorganisms, कोशिकाएं, विशाल अणुओं, biopsy samples, धातुओं, और crystals.
industrially, the इलेक्ट्रॉन microscope is प्रायः प्रयुक्त for quality control और विफलता विश्लेषण.
आधुनिक इलेक्ट्रॉन microscopes produce इलेक्ट्रॉन micrographs, using specialized डिजिटल cameras or फ़्रेम grabbers to कैप्चर the image.
popeyes Louisiana Kitchen is a chain of fried मुर्गा तेज़ खाना रेस्तरां founded in 1972 in New ऑरलियन्स, Louisiana.
Often referred to as popeyes और sometimes as popeyes Chicken & बिस्कुट or popeyes मुर्गा & Seafood, It was acquired by sandy स्रोतों, Georgia -based AFC उद्यमों, originally America 's पसंदीदा Chicken कम्पनी, in 1993.
According to a कम्पनी दबायें रिलीज दिनाँक June 29, 2007, popeyes is the second-largest `` quick-service मुर्गा restaurant समूह, measured by क्रमांक of इकाई '', with more than 1,800 रेस्तरां in more than 40 राज्य और the District of कोलंबिया, और over 22 देशों विश्वव्यापी including तुर्कों, उत्तरी Cyprus, बहरीन, चीन, Hong काँग, इराकी, इंडोनेशिया, जॉर्डन, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, Japan, मलेशिया, सऊदी अरब, South Korea, Singapore, Canada, जमैका, गुयाना, Suriname, मैक्सिको, त्रिनिदाद, प्यूर्टो रीको, होंडुरास, वियतनाम, Panama, पेरू, और Costa Rica.
About thirty स्थितियाँ हैं company-owned, the rest franchised.
The leg दबायें is a वज़न training exercise in which the individual pushes a वज़न or resistance दूर इससे them using their legs.
the पद लेग दबायें भी refers to the apparatus प्रयुक्त to perform इस कसरत.
the leg दबायें can be used to evaluate an खिलाड़ी 's overall lower body शक्ति ( इससे घुटना संयुक्त to हिप ).
using the diagonal sled-type leg दबायें machine.
वहीँ हैं दो main प्रकार of leg press:
The diagonal or vertical 'sled ' प्रकार leg press.
वज़न disks ( प्लेटों ) हैं attached directly to the sled, जिससे is mounted on rails.
The उपयोक्ता sits नीचे the sled और pushes it upward साथ उनके feet.
These machines normally शामिल समायोज्य सुरक्षा कोष्ठक that prevent the user इससे being फंस under the weight.
The 'cable ' प्रकार लेग press, or 'seated लेग दबायें ', commonly मिला on multigyms.
The उपयोक्ता sits कतरा और pushes आगे साथ उनके फीट onto a plate कि is attached to the वज़न स्टेक by अर्थात् of a long steel cable.
Wendy Williams शिकारी ( born वेन्डी जोन विलियम्स ; जुलाई 18, 1964 ) is an American media व्यक्तित्व, अभिनेत्री and author.
She होस्ट a syndicated टेलीविज़न talk show, the वेन्डी विलियम्स दिखाएँ.
prior to टेलीविज़न, विलियम्स was a `` शॉक jockette `` on several radio shows.
Williams has gained सुर्खी लिये उसके on-air spats साथ हस्तियाँ.
वो was the विषय of the 2006 vh1 reality TV श्रेणी पुकारा The Wendy Williams Experience which ब्रॉडकास्ट events surrounding उसके रेडियो show.
वो रै written an आत्मकथा and अनेक other किताबे, and has निर्मित a उत्पाद line called adorn by Wendy विलियम्स.
Patrick हेनरी `` देशद्रोह '' speech before the हाउस of burgesses in an 1851 पेंटिंग by पीटर F. rothermel
`` Give me स्वतंत्रता, or दे me death ! '' is a quotation attributed to पैट्रिक Henry from a speech he बना to the वर्जिनिया सम्मेलन.
on कि day, at St. जॉन 's Church in Richmond, वर्जिनिया, और is credited साथ having swung the balance in convincing the Virginia House of burgesses to pass a रेज़ोल्यूशन delivering the वर्जिनिया troops to the Revolutionary युद्ध.
Among the delegates to the सम्मेलन were भविष्य us राष्ट्रपतियों थामस जेफरसन और George Washington.
न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और Labrador (, locally ) is the easternmost province of कनाडा.
situated in the country 's Atlantic region, it incorporates the द्वीप of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड and मेनलैंड labrador to the northwest, with a संयुक्त area of.
In 2011, the प्रांत 's जनसांख्यिकी was 514,536.
लगभग 92 percent of the प्रांत 's जनसांख्यिकी जीवनदान on the द्वीप of Newfoundland ( सहित its associated छोटी islands ), of which more than half सजीव on the avalon प्रायद्वीप.
the province is Canada 's सबसे linguistically homogenous, साथ 97.6 % of residents रिपोर्टिंग अंग्रेज़ी ( न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड अंग्रेज़ी ) as उनके mother tongue in the 2006 जनसांख्यिकी ;.
Historically, न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड थी also घर to unique किस्में of French, and Irish, as खूब as the now-extinct Beothuk भाषा.
In labrador, लोकल dialects of Innu-aimun and inuktitut are also बोला.
न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और labrador 's पूंजी और largest नगर, St. जॉन 's, is कनाडा 's 20th-largest जनसांख्यिकी महानगर क्षेत्रफल, और is घर to लगभग 40 प्रतिशत of the province 's जनसांख्यिकी.
St. जॉन 's is the सीट of government, घर to the हाउस of सभा of Newfoundland और labrador और the highest अदालत in the jurisdiction, the Newfoundland और labrador अदालत of Appeal.
A पूर्व उपनिवेश और डोमिनियन of the संयुक्त किंगडम, न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड and labrador became the tenth प्रांत to डालें the कनाडाई कनफेडरेशन on कूच 31, 1949, as Newfoundland.
on दिसम्बर 6, 2001, an amendment थी बना to the Constitution of कनाडा to change the प्रांत 's official name to Newfoundland और labrador.
in day-to-day वार्तालाप, however, Canadians generally स्टिल refer to the प्रांत itself as न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड and to the region on the Canadian मेनलैंड as labrador.
थियोडोर `` T.R. ''
Roosevelt, jr. ( ; अक्तूबर 27, 1858—january 6, 1919 ) was the 26th President of the संयुक्त States ( 1901–1909 ).
He is noted लिये his समृद्ध personality, range of रूचि और उपलब्धियाँ, और उसके नेतृत्व of the Progressive गति, as खूब as उसके `` cowboy `` persona और मजबूत मर्दानगी.
He थी a नेता of the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी and संस्थापक of the first incarnation of the short-lived प्रगतिशील ( `` Bull मूस '' ) पार्टी of 1912.
पहले बनने President, he held offices at the नगर, राज्य, and federal स्तर.
रूज़वेल्ट 's achievements as a naturalist, एक्सप्लोरर, शिकारी, author, और soldier हैं as much a भाग of his fame as कोई दफ्तर he held as a politician.
Roosevelt थी 42 सालो old when sworn in as अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य in 1901, बनाना उसे the youngest president कभी ; he ताल out the youngest elected president, John F. कैनेडी, by तभी एक साल.
रूज़वेल्ट was also the first of तभी three sitting presidents to have जीती the नोबेल सलाम पुरस्कार.
the Teddy bear is नामित after उसे, despite his contempt for being पुकारा `` Teddy ''.
born into a wealthy family in नई यॉर्क नगर, Roosevelt was a sickly चाइल्ड जो suffered इससे asthma and stayed at घर studying natural history.
to overcome his शारीरिक weakness, he embraced a ज़ोरदार life.
home-schooled, he became an eager छात्र of nature.
he attended हार्वर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों, where he studied जीवविज्ञान, boxed और विकसित an ब्याज in naval affairs.
in 1881, एक साल आउट of Harvard, he was निर्वाचित to the नई यॉर्क राज्य सभा, जहाँ he became a leader of the सुधार गुट of उसके Republican पार्टी ( the `` GOP '' ).
उसके The नवल युद्ध of 1812 ( 1882 ) स्थापित his पेशेवर प्रतिष्ठा as a serious historian ; he लिखा numerous books on hunting, the बाहरी, और current राजनैतिक मुद्दे, as well as frontier इतिहास.
In 1884, his पहला बीवी और उसके mother died on the वही day.
he temporarily left राजनीती और went to the frontier, becoming a rancher in the `` Badlands '' in the dakotas.
returning to New यॉर्क नगर, he ran for महापौर in 1886, finishing third with 60,000 मत.
He बाद gained कीर्ति by लेने vigorous चार्ज of the नगर पुलिस.
at the national स्तर, he थी a नेता in सिविल सेवा सुधार.
the spanish–american War broke आउट in 1898 जबकि रूज़वेल्ट थी, effectively, कार्यशील the Department of the नेवी.
He फौरन resigned and formed the अशिष्ट Riders – a स्वयंसेवी cavalry regiment कि लड़ा in क्यूबा.
the युद्ध hero was निर्वाचित governor in 1898 और in 1900 थी nominated लिये vice अध्यक्ष.
he सफलतापूर्वक energized the gop base as a highly visible campaigner to reelect President विलियम McKinley on a मंच of ऊँची tariffs, the gold standard, imperialism, समृद्धि at घर और victory abroad.
in 1901, President विलियम mckinley थी assassinated और रूज़वेल्ट became अध्यक्ष.
He attempted to move the Republican पार्टी ( gop ) toward प्रगतिवाद, सहित विश्वास busting and increased विनियमन of व्यवसायों.
Roosevelt became the first person elected to a पद in उसके own सही in 1904 बाद having ascended to the Presidency ( from the Vice-Presidency ) upon the मौत of उसके predecessor, जीतना the largest प्रतिशत of the लोकप्रिय vote चूंकि the uncontested चुनाव of 1820.
Roosevelt coined the phrase `` वर्गाकार Deal `` to describe उसके घरेलू agenda, emphasizing कि the औसत citizen होता मिलेंगी a मेला share अंतर्गत उसके नीतियों.
as an outdoorsman and naturalist, he प्रचारित the संरक्षण गति.
on the संसार stage, Roosevelt 's policies were characterized by his स्लोगन, `` बोलो softly and carry a बिग stick ``.
A cousin is a relative with whom a व्यक्ति shares एक or more आम पूर्वज ( s ) ( other than a जनक, child/descendant, सहोदर, child/descendant of a सहोदर, or सहोदर of a parent/ancestor ).
however in common parlance, `` cousin '' normally specifically अर्थात् `` पहला cousin ''.
प्रणालियों of `` डिग्री '' और `` removals '' हैं प्रयुक्त in the English-speaking world to describe the सटीक संबंध between two cousins ( in the broad sense ) and the पूर्वज वे have in common.
विभिन्न governmental entities have स्थापित प्रणालियों लिये विधिक use that can more precisely बताएँ kinships साथ common पूर्वजो existing any number of generations in the पास्ट, though आम उपयोग प्रायः eliminates the डिग्री और removals और refers to लोगों साथ आम ancestry as बस `` distant cousins '' or `` रिश्तेदारों ''.
वेबस्टर is an अमरीकी हालात कॉमेडी कि aired on ABC from सितंबर 16, 1983 जबतक May 8, 1987, और in first-run syndication इससे सितंबर 21, 1987 until कूच 10, 1989.
The series was निर्मित by Stu Silver.
The दिखाएँ stars Emmanuel Lewis in the शीर्षक भूमिका as a young लड़के who, after खोने his parents, is adopted by उसके NFL -pro गॉडफादर, portrayed by एलेक्स Karras, और his नई socialite बीवी, निभाई by Susan Clark.
the focus थी largely on कैसा this impulsively married couple था to समायोजन to उनके नई जीवनदान and अचानक parenthood, but it थी the congenial वेबस्टर himself who drove much of the प्लाट.
the series थी उत्पादित by जॉर्जियाई खाड़ी ltd., Emmanuel लुईस Entertainment उद्यमों, Inc. ( 1986-1989 ) और सर्वोपरि टेलीविज़न.
जैसे NBC 's पहले hit diff'rent स्ट्रोक्स, वेबस्टर प्रदर्शित a young african-american लड़के अपनाया by a श्वेत family.
Three types of कोशिका प्रभाग
कोशिका प्रभाग is the प्रक्रम by which a जनक कोशिका divides into two or more बेटी कोशिकाएं.
कोशिका division usually occurs as part of a larger कोशिका साईकिल.
In eukaryotes, वहीँ are दो पृथक प्रकार of cell प्रभाग : a vegetative division, whereby each बेटी कोशिका is genetically identical to the जनक cell ( समसूत्रण ), and a reductive कोशिका division, whereby the क्रमांक of गुणसूत्रों in the daughter कोशिकाएं is reduced by हाफ, to produce haploid गैमीट ( meiosis ).
दोनो of ये कोशिका division चक्र हैं required in sexually reproducing जीवों at कुछ पाइंट in उनके जीवन cycle, and both are believed to be present in the last eukaryotic common पूर्वज Prokaryotes also undergo a vegetative cell division ज्ञात as शब्दकोष fission, जहाँ उनके genetic सामग्री is segregated बराबर into दो बेटी कोशिकाएं.
सब cell divisions, regardless of सजीव, are preceded by a single round of DNA replication.
लिये simple एककोशिकीय जीवों ऐसे as the amoeba, एक cell प्रभाग is equivalent to जनन – an entire नई सजीव is created.
on a larger scale, mitotic कोशिका प्रभाग can बनाएँ progeny इससे बहुकोशिकीय जीवों, ऐसे as पौधे कि grow इससे cuttings.
Cell division भी enables sexually reproducing organisms to develop इससे the one-celled zygote, which itself थी produced by cell division इससे गैमीट.
और बाद विकास, कोशिका प्रभाग allows लिये continual निर्माण and repair of the सजीव.
A human होने 's body अनुभवों परिचय 10,000 खरब कोशिका विभाजन in a lifetime.
कोशिका division has महरूम modeled by परिमित subdivision नियम.
The प्राथमिक concern of cell प्रभाग is the मेंटेनेंस of the असली cell 's genome.
पहले division can occur, the genomic information कि is stored in गुणसूत्रों जरूर be replicated, and the duplicated genome जरूर be अलग cleanly between कोशिकाएं.
a ग्रेट सौदे of सेल्यूलर infrastructure is involved in keeping genomic information सतत between `` generations ''.
पहाड़ सीमाएँ of Massachusetts, United States.
Howard Jones ( born John हावर्ड Jones, 23 February 1955, Southampton, Hampshire, England ) is a अंग्रेजों संगीतकार, singer और songwriter.
according to the Guinness किताब of अंग्रेजों hit Singles & एल्बम, `` Jones is an accomplished singer-songwriter जो थी a नियमित chart visitor in the mid-1980s with उसके brand of synthpop.
जोन्स, जो थी equally popular in the U.S., appeared at सजीव Aid ``.
Allmusic पत्रकार, Stephen Thomas Erlewine adds, `` Jones थी one of the धमक figures of mid-1980s synthpop.
उसके म्यूज़िक merged the प्रौद्योगिकी intensive sound of नई Wave साथ the cheery आशावाद of hippies and late 1960s पॉप.
Jones racked up a string of हिट्स in the mid और late 1980s, पहले he retreated into being a cult फिगर in the 1990s ''.
the International Isle of man tt ( Tourist Trophy ) Race is a मोटरसाइकिल रेसिंग इवेंट आयोजित on the आइल of Man और थी for अनेक सालो the most prestigious मोटरसाइकिल रेस in the world.
the event थी part of the fim Motorcycle ग्रैंड प्रिक्स World चैंपियनशिप दौरान the period 1949–1976 पहले being transferred to the United किंगडम after सुरक्षा concerns और चलाएं by the fim as the अंग्रेजों Grand प्रिक्स लिये the 1977 ऋतु.
the Isle of Man TT दौड़ became part of the tt सूत्र 1 Championship from 1977 to 1990 to preserve the इवेंट 's रेसिंग status.
इससे 1989 the रेसिंग रै been विकसित by the Isle of man Department of Tourism as the Isle of Man tt पर्व.
The race is चलाएं in a time-trial format on public सड़कें closed for रेसिंग by the provisions of an अधिनियम of tynwald ( the पार्लियामेंट of the आइल of Man ).
the पहला रेस थी held on Tuesday 28 may 1907 और थी पुकारा the अंतरराष्ट्रीय auto-cycle पर्यटक ट्रॉफी.
The event was organised by the Auto-Cycle क्लबों over 10 गोद of the St जॉन 's Short Course of 15 मील 1,470 गज लिये road-legal touring मोटरसाइकिल with exhaust silencers, saddles, pedals और mud-guards.
the विजेता of the single-cylinder क्लास, and overall winner of the first इवेंट in 1907, was Charlie collier riding a Matchless motorcycle in a समय of 4 hours, 8 मिनट्स और 8 सेकेंड at an average रेस speed of 38.21 किमी.
The विजेता of the twin-cylinder क्लास थी rem Fowler सवारी a peugeot engined Norton in a time of 4 घंटों 21 minutes और 52 सेकेंड at an average race speed of 36.21 किमी.
the trophy presented to चार्ली collier as the winner of the 1907 आइल of man tt रेस, थी दान by the Marquis de Mouzilly st. मंगल.
It प्रदर्शित a stylised version of ओलम्पिक God hermes by giovanni da बोलोग्ना as a silver figurine astride a winged wheel.
the trophy थी similar in design to the 18 कैरेट gold montague ट्रॉफी प्रस्तुत to John नेपियर ( arrol-johnston ) as the inaugural विजेता of the Isle of man पर्यटक Trophy car रेस in 1905 अभी ज्ञात as the rac Tourist ट्रॉफी.
the Marquis de Mouzilly st. Mars ट्रॉफी is now प्रस्तुत annually to the winner of the Isle of man वरिष्ठ TT motor-cycle Race.
the 2007 Isle of man tt थी the Centenary event जिससे ran between 26 may and 8 जून 2007 and प्रदर्शित a special Re-enactment of the 1907 आइल of Man tt रेस आयोजित on the village ग्रीन next to tynwald Hill in St John 's on Monday 28 May 2007.
The vintage परेड of 100 classic motorcycles लिये the centenary Re-enactment on the असली st जॉन 's छोटी कोर्स थी flagged दूर by पूर्व संसार Motor-Cycle चैंपियन ज्यॉफ Duke.
the पहला of the भागीदार to be flagged away थी the recently restored twin-cylinder peugeot-norton ridden by Rem fowler दौरान the first आइल of man tt Race in 1907.
भी participating in the 2007 re-enactment was tt रेस competitor Guy Martin riding a 1938 triumph बाघ 100 500 cc and अन्य former TT competitors including एलन cathcart, Sammy मिलर, उपनाम Jefferies and मिक ग्रान्ट also समाप्त the re-enactment lap.
upright=1.15
बेरोजगारी ( or joblessness ) occurs when लोगों हैं बगैर कार्य and actively seeking कार्य.
The unemployment रेट is a माप of the व्यापकता of unemployment और it is गणना as a percentage by dividing the क्रमांक of unemployed individuals by all individuals फिलहाल in the labor force.
दौरान अवधि of recession, an अर्थव्यवस्था प्रायः अनुभवों a relatively ऊँची unemployment rate.
according to अंतरराष्ट्रीय श्रमिक संगठन रपट, अधिक than 197 लाख people globally are आउट of कार्य or 6 % of the world 's workforce यहूद without a जॉब in 2012.
There remains considerable theoretical बहस regarding the कल्याणकारी, consequences and समाधान लिये बेरोजगारी.
Classical economics, New शास्त्रीय economics, और the Austrian स्कूल of अर्थशास्त्र argue that market mechanisms हैं विश्वसनीय अर्थात् of resolving unemployment.
ये theories argue विरूद्ध interventions imposed on the labor मार्केट from the outside, ऐसे as unionization, न्यूनतम मजदूरी कानून, कर, और अन्य regulations कि वे अर्जी discourage the भर्ती of मजदूर.
keynesian अर्थशास्त्र emphasizes the cyclical nature of unemployment and अनुशंसा सरकारी interventions in the अर्थव्यवस्था that it claims will reduce बेरोजगारी दौरान recessions.
This theory focuses on तूल झटके कि एकाएक reduce कुल माँग लिये goods and services and यूँ reduce demand for मजदूर.
Keynesian मॉडल recommend सरकारी interventions designed to बढ़ाएँ माँग for मजदूर ; ये can शामिल financial stimuli, सरेआम वित्तपोषित जॉब सृष्टि, and expansionist monetary नीतियों.
in addition to these व्यापक theories of unemployment, वहीँ are a few categorizations of unemployment कि हैं used to अधिक precisely model the effects of unemployment within the आर्थिक system.
the main प्रकार of बेरोजगारी शामिल संरचनात्मक unemployment which focuses on structural problems in the अर्थव्यवस्था and inefficiencies अंतर्निहित in labour बाज़ार, सहित a बेमेल between the सप्लाई और माँग of laborers साथ necessary skill sets.
संरचनात्मक arguments emphasize कल्याणकारी और solutions related to विघटनकारी technologies और वैश्वीकरण.
चर्चाएँ of frictional बेरोजगारी फ़ोकस on voluntary निर्णय to कार्य आधारित on each individuals ' valuation of their own कार्य और कैसा कि compares to वर्तमान wage दरों प्लस the time और प्रयत्न required to find a जॉब.
Causes और solutions for frictional बेरोजगारी प्रायः पता जॉब entry दहलीज and wage दरों.
Behavioral अर्थशास्त्रियों highlight individual biases in निर्णय बनाना, और प्रायः involve problems और solutions concerning स्टिकी मजदूरी and efficiency मजदूरी.
collectivism is कोई philosophic, राजनैतिक, धार्मिक, आर्थिक, or सोशल आउटलुक कि emphasizes the interdependence of प्रत्येक इंसान होने in a समाज or सभ्यता.
collectivism is a basic सांस्कृतिक तत्व that exists as the रिवर्स of व्यक्तिगत in इंसान nature ( in the वही रास्ता ऊँची कॉन्टेक्स्ट culture exists as the reverse of कम कॉन्टेक्स्ट culture ).
collectivist orientations तनाव the importance of मिलाप within सोशल समूह ( ऐसे as an `` in-group '', in what specific कॉन्टेक्स्ट it is defined ) और in some मामले, the प्रधानता of समूह goals over व्यक्तिगत लक्ष्य.
collectivists प्रायः फ़ोकस on जातियाँ, society, स्वदेश or देश.
it रै महरूम प्रयुक्त as an element in many अलग और diverse types of सरकारी and political, economic और शैक्षणिक तत्त्वज्ञान throughout history और सबसे इंसान societies in practice contain तत्व of दोनो individualism and collectivism.
Some examples of collectivist संस्कृतियों शामिल India और Japan.
Collectivism can be divided into आड़ा collectivism और लंबवत collectivism.
आड़ा collectivism तनावों सामूहिक decision-making among equal individuals, and is यूँ usually आधारित on decentralization and समतावाद.
लंबवत collectivism is आधारित on hierarchical structures of शक्ति और on moral और cultural conformity, और is therefore based on centralization और पदानुक्रम.
a सहकारी enterprise would be an example of horizontal collectivism, whereas a military पदानुक्रम would be an उदाहरण of लंबवत collectivism.
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis ( adem ) is an immune mediated बीमारी of the दिमाग.
it प्रायः occurs following a वाइरल संक्रमण लकिन may appear following vaccination, बैक्टीरियल or parasitic infection, or even appear अनायास.
As it involves autoimmune demyelination, it is समान to अनेक sclerosis, and is considered part of the अनेक काठिन्य borderline रोगों.
The incidence रेट is परिचय 8 प्रति 1,000,000 people per year.
हालांकि it occurs in सब ages, सबसे reported cases are in children and adolescents, साथ the average आयु around 5 to 8 years old.
the mortality रेट may be as high as 5 %, full recovery is देखी in 50 to 75 % of cases, while up to 70 to 90 % रिकवर साथ some minor residual विकलांगता.
The औसत time to रिकवर is एक to six months.
adem produces multiple inflammatory lesions in the दिमाग और spinal cord, विशेषकर in the white पदार्थ.
प्रायः these हैं मिला in the subcortical और central white matter और cortical gray-white junction of both दिमागी hemispheres, cerebellum, brainstem, और spinal cord, लकिन periventricular श्वेत पदार्थ and धूसर पदार्थ of the cortex, thalami and basal ganglia may भी be शामिल.
जब the रोगी suffers अधिक than one demyelinating episode, it is called तूल disseminated encephalomyelitis or multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis ( mdem ).
the पेट is a muscular, खोखला, dilated भाग of the digestion system which functions as an महत्वपूर्ण organ of the digestive ट्रैक्ट in कुछ animals, including vertebrates, echinoderms, कीट ( mid-gut ), and molluscs.
it is involved in the second phase of पाचन, following mastication ( चबाने ).
the stomach is स्तिथ between the ग्रासनाल और the छोटी intestine.
It secretes protein-digesting enzymes पुकारा protease और दमदार acids to सहायता in खाना पाचन, ( sent to it via esophageal peristalsis ) through चिकना muscular contortions ( पुकारा segmentation ) before sending partially digested खाना ( chyme ) to the small आंतों.
the word stomach is derived इससे the लैटिन stomachus जिससे is derived from the Greek शब्द stomachos ( στόμαχος ), ultimately from stoma ( ), `` मुँह ''.
the शब्द gastro- और gastric ( अर्थ सम्बन्धित to the पेट ) हैं both derived इससे the यूनानी word gaster ( ).
1940 pontiac खास श्रेणी 25 Woodie
A woodie is a car देह style, विशेषकर a स्टेशन वैगन, जहाँ the पश्च bodywork is constructed of लकडी framework साथ infill panels of wood or चित्रित मेटल.
After the निधन of वास्तविक लकडी निर्माण, manufacturers प्रयुक्त simulated woodgrain sheet vinyl—sometimes augmented with three-dimensional, अनुकरण framework—to recall लकडी निर्माण.
in 2008, wood construction was evoked abstractly on the घाट फ्लेक्स साथ a series of पक्ष और पश्च आड़ा डोले.
a पर्ल is a hard object उत्पादित within the soft ऊतक ( specifically the mantle ) of a जीना shelled mollusc.
बस जैसे the shell of a clam, a पर्ल is बना up of कैल्सियम कार्बोनेट in मिनट crystalline रूप, जिससे has महरूम deposited in concentric परतों.
the ideal पर्ल is perfectly round और smooth, but many अन्य आकार of pearls ( baroque मोती ) occur.
The finest quality प्राकृतिक pearls have महरूम अत्यधिक valued as रत्नों and वस्तुएँ of beauty लिये अनेक सदियां, और because of इस, the word पर्ल has become a रूपक लिये कुछ बहुत विरल, fine, admirable, और मूल्यवान.
the सबसे valuable मोती occur अनायास in the जंगली, लकिन वे हैं अत्यधिक विरल.
These जंगली मोती are referred to as natural pearls.
Cultured or farmed pearls इससे pearl oysters and freshwater mussels मेक up the majority of those कि हैं फिलहाल बेची.
Imitation pearls are also widely बेची in inexpensive आभूषण, but the quality of their iridescence is प्रायः बहुत ग़रीब, और प्रायः, कृत्रिम pearls हैं easily विशिष्ट from वास्तविक मोती.
मोती have महरूम harvested और cultivated primarily लिये use in आभूषण, लकिन in the पास्ट वे यहूद also सिले onto lavish clothing.
मोती have भी been crushed और used in cosmetics, दवाइयाँ, और in पेंट formulations.
whether wild or cultured, gem quality मोती are लगभग सदा nacreous और, as is the interior of the शेल कि produces उन्हें.
however, almost सब species of shelled molluscs are सक्षम of producing मोती ( formally referred to as `` calcareous concretions '' by कुछ स्त्रोत ) of lesser shine or कम spherical shape.
हालांकि these may भी be legitimately referred to as `` pearls '' by gemological लैब्स and भी under u.S. संघीय Trade Commission नियम, and हैं formed in the वही रास्ता, सबसे of उन्हें have no value, except as curiosities.
Bing ( ज्ञात previously as सजीव ढूंढें, खिड़कियाँ सजीव Search, and MSN ढूंढें ) is a web search इंजन ( advertised as a `` निर्णय engine `` ) from microsoft.
bing थी unveiled by microsoft CEO स्टीव बाल्मर on may 28, 2009 at the सब बाते Digital सम्मेलन in सैन Diego for रिलीज on जून 1.
Notable changes शामिल the लिस्टिंग of search सुझाव while प्रश्नों हैं डाला and a सूची of सम्बन्धित searches ( पुकारा `` explore फलक '' ) based on semantic technology इससे Powerset which Microsoft purchased in 2008.
on July 29, 2009, microsoft और याहू ! घोषित a deal in which bing होता power याहू ! Search.
सब Yahoo ! Search global ग्राहक और partners are अपेक्षित to have बना the transition by जल्दी 2012.
In अक्तूबर 2011, bing घोषित it थी working on new back-end ढूंढें अवसंरचना, साथ the लक्ष्य of delivering तेज़ and थोड़ा अधिक प्रासंगिक ढूंढें परिणाम लिये उपयोक्ता.
ज्ञात as `` Tiger '', the new index-serving प्रौद्योगिकी रै been incorporated into Bing globally, since August 2011.
in May 2012, bing घोषित another redesign of इसके ढूंढें इंजन कि शामिल `` साइडबार '', a सोशल विशेषता कि खोज उपयोक्ता ' social संजाल for information relevant to the ढूंढें query.
a diagram showing an I गठन on offense and a 4-3 गठन on defense
In American football, प्रत्येक team has ग्यारह players on the field at एक समय.
the specific भूमिका कि a player takes on the फ़ील्ड is called their स्थिति.
Under the आधुनिक rules of अमरीकी football, टीमों हैं अनुमत असीमित subsititutions, कि is टीमों may बदलें any number of players बाद any खेल.
This has resulted in the विकास of तीन `` platoons '' of खिलाड़ी, the ठोकर ( the टोली with the बॉल, जो is trying to score ), the रक्षा ( the टोली trying to prevent the अन्य टोली from scoring, and to take the ball इससे them ), and the खास टीमों ( जो play in kicking situations ).
भीतर those platoons, विभिन्न विशिष्ट positions मौजूद depending on कया the player 's प्रमुख जॉब is.
the Irish लोगों ( or na hÉireannaigh ; ulster-scots : airish fowk ) हैं an ethnic समूह जो originate in आयरलैंड, an द्वीप in northwestern यूरोपीय.
Ireland has महरूम populated लिये around 9,000 सालो ( according to पुरातत्व अध्ययन, see प्रागैतिहासिक आयरलैंड ).
the Irish people 's earliest पूर्वजो हैं recorded in महापुरूष – वे हैं claimed to be descended इससे समूह ऐसे as the nemedians, Fomorians, fir Bolg, tuatha Dé Danann और the milesians.
lebor Gabála Érenn, a किताब of Irish mythology tells कि milesians यहूद स्काइथियन वंशजों.
The प्रमुख समूह that interacted साथ the आयरिश in the मध्य Ages शामिल the picts, Scots, और the Vikings.
due to इस सम्पर्क, icelanders are विख्यात for having कुछ आयरिश descent.
the anglo-norman आक्रमण of the High Middle Ages, the English plantations और the subsequent अंग्रेज़ी नियम of the country introduced the normans और फ्लेमिश into आयरलैंड.
वेल्श, picts, bretons, और small पार्टियों of gauls और even anglo-saxons are known in Ireland इससे much पहले times.
There have been many notable Irish लोगों throughout इतिहास.
The 6th सदी Irish भिक्षु और missionary columbanus is regarded as एक of the `` fathers of Europe '', followed by kilian of Würzburg and vergilius of साल्जबर्ग.
The वैज्ञानिक रॉबर्ट बॉयल is considered the `` father of chemistry ``.
Famous Irish explorers शामिल Brendan the नाविक, रॉबर्ट mcclure, अर्नेस्ट Shackleton and Tom crean.
By कुछ खाते, the पहला यूरोपीय चाइल्ड born in उत्तर America था Irish descent on दोनो पहलू ; and an Irishman was the पहला European to नियत foot on American मृदा in कोलंबस ' expedition of 1492.
वहीँ हैं descendants of आयरिश लोगों जीना in many पश्चिमी देशों, विशेषकर in english-speaking देशों.
historically, करणों रै महरूम caused by राजनीती, अकाल and आर्थिक मुद्दे.
An अनुमानित 50 to 80 लाख people हैं वंशजों of आयरिश लोगों, primarily in the United Kingdom, the संयुक्त States, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, कनाडा और आइसलैंड ; वहीँ हैं also smaller numbers in Argentina, चिली, मैक्सिको, जमैका, बारबाडोस, दक्षिण Africa, नई जीलैंड, फ़्रांस, जर्मनी and Brazil.
The largest क्रमांक of वंशजों of आयरिश लोगों live in the संयुक्त States.
The number of लोगों living in ऑस्ट्रेलिया जो हैं of Irish descent is उच्चतर, as a percentage of कुल population, than कि of कोई other देश.
लगभग forty प्रतिशत of the उपनिवेश population of आइसलैंड आए from आयरलैंड or स्कॉटलैंड.
The बहुत first निवासियों of आइसलैंड were आयरिश.
the Hubble Space दूरदर्शी ( hst ) is a स्पेस telescope कि was carried into orbit by a स्पेस शटल in 1990 और remains in आपरेशन.
a एपर्चर telescope in कम धरती कक्षा, हबल 's four main यंत्र observe in the near ultraviolet, visible, और निकट इन्फ्रारेड.
the telescope is नामित बाद the astronomer एडविन हबल.
हबल 's कक्षा बाहर the distortion of धरती 's माहौल allows it to लो अत्यधिक शार्प बिंब with लगभग no पृष्ठभूमि लाइट.
हबल 's गहन फ़ील्ड have महरूम कुछ of the सबसे विस्तृत visible-light बिंब कभी, allowing a deep view into स्पेस और समय.
अनेक हबल observations have led to सफलताएँ in astrophysics, ऐसे as accurately determining the rate of expansion of the ब्रह्मांड.
Although नहीं the first space दूरदर्शी, हबल is one of the largest और सबसे versatile, और is well known as both a vital research औजार and a पब्लिक संबंध बून लिये खगोलशास्त्र.
the hst was निर्मित by the संयुक्त राज्य space एजेंसी नासा, साथ contributions इससे the European Space एजेंसी, और is संचालित by the स्पेस दूरदर्शी विज्ञान संस्थान.
the HST is one of NASA 's Great Observatories, साथ साथ the Compton Gamma रे वेधशाला, the Chandra x-ray वेधशाला, और the Spitzer Space Telescope.
Space telescopes यहूद प्रस्तावित as early as 1923.
हबल थी funded in the 1970s, साथ a proposed लॉन्च in 1983, but the project was घिरा by technical देरी, budget problems, और the चैलेंजर disaster.
जब finally launched in 1990, वैज्ञानिकों found that the प्रमुख दर्पण had महरूम मैदान incorrectly, compromising the telescope 's सामर्थ्य.
the दूरदर्शी थी लौटी to its intended quality by a servicing मिशन in 1993.
Hubble is the तभी telescope designed to be serviced in स्पेस by astronauts.
between 1993 और 2002, चार मिशन repaired, upgraded, और replaced प्रणालियों on the दूरदर्शी ; a पांचवां मिशन was रद्द on सुरक्षा grounds following the Columbia disaster.
however, बाद spirited पब्लिक चर्चा, नासा administrator माइक Griffin स्वीकृत एक फाइनल सर्विसिंग mission, समाप्त in 2009 by Space शटल Atlantis.
the दूरदर्शी is अभी expected to function until at तनिक 2013.
Its वैज्ञानिक successor, the James Webb स्पेस दूरदर्शी ( jwst ), is to be launched in 2018 or संभवतः later.
Anti-inflammatory refers to the property of a पदार्थ or treatment कि reduces सूजन.
anti-inflammatory दवाएँ मेक up परिचय half of analgesics, remedying pain by reducing सूजन as opposed to opioids, जिससे affect the सेंट्रल nervous प्रणाली.
the tonight दिखाएँ is a US late-night बात show that रै aired on NBC since 1954.
It is the longest फिलहाल कार्यशील regularly scheduled entertainment कार्यक्रम in the US and the तीसरा longest-running show on एनबीसी बाद मिलें the Press and आज.
the Tonight दिखाएँ was hosted by स्टीव Allen ( 1954–1957 ), Jack paar ( 1957–1962 ), Johnny कार्सन ( 1962–1992 ), jay Leno ( 1992–2009, 2010–present ), and कोनन o'brien ( 2009–2010 ).
अनेक guest होस्ट भी appeared, particularly during the paar और कार्सन eras.
The longest-serving मेजबान to तिथि was Johnny Carson, who hosted The tonight दिखाएँ अभिनीत जॉनी कार्सन लिये 30 सीज़न इससे the fall of 1962 through the वसन्त of 1992.
the वर्तमान मेजबान of the दिखाएँ is Jay Leno, जो था previously hosted the दिखाएँ from 1992 to 2009 और began his second कार्यकाल on March 1, 2010.
On अप्रैल 3, 2013, NBC घोषित jimmy Fallon would become the new मेजबान of The tonight Show.
The tonight Show with Jimmy fallon होगा प्रीमियर February 24, 2014, the दिन बाद the closing ceremonies of the 2014 शीत ओलंपिक.
ss एंड्रिया डोरिया.
Pronounced थी an समंदर liner लिये the Italian Line ( Società di navigazione Italia ) home ported in Genoa, इटली, most प्रसिद्ध लिये its डूब in 1956, when 52 people died ( 51 इससे immediate प्रभाव ).
Named बाद the 16th-century Genoese admiral Andrea Doria, the जलयान had a gross पंजीकरण tonnage of 29,100 और a क्षमता of परिचय 1,200 passengers and 500 क्रू.
For a country attempting to rebuild इसके economy और प्रतिष्ठा after संसार War II, Andrea डोरिया was an icon of इतालवी नेशनल pride.
of all Italy 's ships at the time, एंड्रिया डोरिया was the largest, fastest और supposedly safest.
शुभारम्भ on 16 June 1951, the ship undertook its maiden voyage on 14 जनवरी 1953.
on 25 July 1956, while the Andrea डोरिया थी approaching the coast of nantucket, Massachusetts, बंधी लिये नई यॉर्क City, the eastbound of the स्वीडिश American लकीर collided साथ it in कया became एक of history 's सबसे infamous maritime आपदाओं.
struck in the पक्ष, the top-heavy Andrea डोरिया तत्काल started to list severely to स्टारबोर्ड, which left हाफ of इसके lifeboats unusable.
the consequent shortage of lifeboats might have resulted in significant loss of जीवन, लकिन the दक्षता of the जलयान 's technical design अनुमत it to रहो afloat लिये over 11 hours after the ramming.
The शुभ बर्ताव of the crew, improvements in संचार और the रैपिड response of अन्य जहाजों averted a विपत्ति similar in स्केल to that of the in 1912.
1,660 यात्री and crew यहूद rescued और survived, while 46 लोगों died as a consequence of the collision.
the evacuated luxury लाइनर capsized और sank the following morning.
इस accident remains the worst maritime disaster to occur in संयुक्त राज्य waters since the sinking of the in 1915.
The घटना और its aftermath यहूद heavily covered by the न्यूज मीडिया.
While the बचाव प्रयत्न were दोनो successful और commendable, the cause of the टक्कर with the Stockholm और the loss of एंड्रिया Doria उत्पन्न much ब्याज in the मीडिया and अनेक lawsuits.
largely क्युकी of an out-of-court settlement अनुबंध between the two shipping कंपनियाँ during hearings immediately after the disaster, no determination of the कारण ( s ) was कभी formally प्रकाशित.
हालांकि वृहद दोष appeared initially to fall on the इतालवी लाइनर, more हाल discoveries have indicated कि a misreading of radar on the स्वीडिश जलयान may have initiated the टक्कर कोर्स, अग्रणी to त्रुटियाँ on both जहाजों.
Andrea Doria थी the last major transatlantic यात्री vessel to डूबना before aircraft became the पसन्दीदा विधि of सफर.
Dialysis tubing
डायलिसिस tubing is a type of semi- or partially permeable झिल्ली tubing बना from regenerated cellulose or सेलोफेन.
It can be प्रयुक्त for diffusion साथ solutes or परासरण if प्रयुक्त with जल तभी.
परासरण is when water गुजरता through a semi-permeable परत to पहुँचें संतुलन.
Diffusion, on the अन्य हाथ, allows the movement of अणुओं from ऊँची concentration to low concentration.
it होगा तभी allow molecules to pass through a semi-permeable झिल्ली or परत if the अणु is छोटी पर्याप्त to अनुरूप through the झिल्ली or a झिल्ली 's pore.
इस प्रायः परिणाम साथ the प्रभाव of diffusion through a झिल्ली तभी वाकई affects small molecules, and लगभग never larger अणुओं.
Dialysis tubing is प्रयुक्त in clinical circumstances to ensure a filtered प्रवाह of अणुओं, preventing the flow of larger solute अणुओं.
Small अणुओं can be `` धोया '' out of a समाधान which is उत्तेजित through the tubing into a solvent, usually जल, जिससे surrounds it और in जिससे वे can be flushed away.
In demonstrations of semi-permeable झिल्लियों, a solution containing several types of molecules, प्रायः ग्लूकोज और मंड, is लगाई into a semi-permeable डायलिसिस bag, such as a cellulose membrane साथ pores, और the थैला is sealed साथ a गांठ or elastic band.
The sealed dialysis bag is लगाई in a container of a different समाधान, or water.
अणुओं छोटी enough to pass through the tubing ( water, लवण, monosaccharides, और other small molecules ) tend to move into or आउट of the डायलिसिस थैला in the दिशा of अवरोहण concentration, इसलिए displaying diffusion.
larger अणुओं ( ऐसे as प्रोटीन, or polysaccharides ) that have dimensions significantly greater than the pore diameter are retained inside the डायलिसिस थैला.
the water और smaller solutes in a hypotonic समाधान ( a समाधान कि has a lesser solute concentration than the समाधान it is संदर्भित to ) होगा क्रॉस a semi-permeable membrane, जैसे डायलिसिस tubing, into a hypertonic समाधान ( a solution कि रै a उच्चतर solute विशेषज्ञता than the समाधान it is संदर्भित to ) in an attempt to reach संतुलन, जहाँ the solute विशेषज्ञता of प्रत्येक solution is in संतुलन.
Mercury प्रयोगशाला थर्मामीटर
A thermometer ( इससे the यूनानी, thermos, अर्थ `` hot '' और μἐτρον, metron, `` measure '' ) is a device कि उपायों temperature or तापमान gradient using a variety of अलग सिद्धान्त.
A थर्मामीटर रै दो महत्वपूर्ण तत्व : the temperature sensor ( e.g. the bulb on a mercury-in-glass थर्मामीटर ) in जिससे some physical बदलें occurs with तापमान, प्लस some अर्थात् of converting इस physical change into a numerical मान ( e.g. the दृश्य स्केल that is चिह्नित on a mercury-in-glass थर्मामीटर ).
वहीँ are अनेक types और अनेक uses लिये thermometers, as विस्तृत नीचे in भाग of इस आलेख.
हिम श्वेत और the Seven dwarfs is a 1937 अमरीकी एनिमेटेड musical fantasy film produced by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी और released by rko रेडियो Pictures.
Based on the जर्मनी fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm, it is the पहला full-length cel एनिमेटेड विशेषता फिल्मी और the earliest in the वॉल्ट डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड क्लासिक श्रेणी.
the स्टोरी थी adapted by storyboard artists डोरोथी Ann Blank, Richard Creedon, Merrill de मारिस, Otto englander, अर्ल Hurd, लंड Rickard, Ted सियर्स और Webb स्मिथ.
दाउद हाथ थी the supervising निदेशक, जबकि विलियम Cottrell, विल्फ्रेड जैक्सन, Larry morey, Perce Pearce, and बेन sharpsteen निर्देशित the फिल्मी 's individual sequences.
हिम श्वेत premiered at the carthay Circle थिएटर on दिसम्बर 21, 1937, followed by a देशभर release on फ़रवरी 4, 1938, और साथ अंतरराष्ट्रीय आय of $ 8 million दौरान its आरंभिक release briefly assumed the record of highest grossing ध्वनि film at the time.
the popularity of the film रै led to it होने re-released theatrically many टाइम्स, जबतक इसके घर वीडियो release in the 1990s.
Adjusted लिये महंगाई, it is one of the शीर्ष टेन performers at the उत्तर अमरीकी box दफ्तर.
At the 11th अकादमी Awards, वॉल्ट Disney थी awarded an मानद ऑस्कर, and the फिल्मी was nominated लिये बेहतरीन musical स्कोर.
It थी added to the संयुक्त राज्य नेशनल फिल्मी Registry in 1989 और is क्रमित in the अमरीकी Film Institute 's list of the 100 महानतम अमरीकी films, जो also named the film as the greatest अमरीकी animated फिल्मी of सब समय in 2008.
डिज़्नी 's लो on the fairy टेल रै था a बिग cultural impact, resulting in a लोकप्रिय थीम पार्क आकर्षण, a वीडियो game, and a ब्रॉडवे musical.
प्रसव, श्रमिक, delivery, जनम, partus, or parturition is the culmination of a गर्भावस्था period साथ the expulsion of एक or more नवजात infants from a woman 's uterus.
the process of सामान्य प्रसव is categorized in तीन चरण of श्रमिक : the shortening and dilation of the ग्रीवा, descent और जनम of the infant, and जनम of the placenta.
in many मामले and साथ increasing आवृत्ति, प्रसव is हासिल through induction of मजदूर or caesarean section, which is the removal of the neonate through a surgical incision in the abdomen, rather than through vaginal जनम.
Childbirth by c-sections increased 50 % in the u.S. from 1996 to 2006, और comprise nearly 32 % of births in the u.S. और कनाडा.
साथ आदर to induced labor, अधिक than 22 % of महिलाओं undergo प्रेरण of श्रमिक in the संयुक्त States.
Medical पेशेवर नीति makers ढूँढें कि induced births and elective cesarean can be नुकसानदेह to the fetus and neonate as खूब as नुकसानदेह or without लाभ to the mother, and have established सख्त guidelines लिये non-medically indicated induced births and elective cesarean before 39 weeks.
चिरायु La bam was an MTV & चिरायु दिखाएँ which followed bam margera and his क्रू as वे undertook challenges, performed stunts and traveled the world.
the दिखाएँ भागा for 5 सीज़न between 2003 and 2005.
flushed Away is a 2006 british/american कंप्यूटर एनिमेटेड कार्रवाई / एडवेंचर कॉमेडी film निर्देशित by David Bowers और sam गिरी.
it was made in the साझेदारी between Aardman एनिमेशन and DreamWorks एनिमेशन, और is aardman 's पहला completely computer-animated विशेषता as opposed to the usual stop-motion.
The film सितारों the आवाज़ talents of ह्यूज जैकमैन, केट Winslet, एंडी serkis, Bill nighy, इयान McKellen, शेन Richie and जां रेनो.
the story थी by sam Fell, Peter रब, लंड सहनशील, and इयान la frenais, और the पटकथा was लिखा by लंड Clement, इयान la Frenais, क्रिस्टोफर लॉयड, जो keenan, और विलियम Davies.
the film थी released in us on 3 November 2006, और in uk on दिसम्बर 1 2006, and थी वितरित by Paramount तस्वीरें, except for स्विट्ज़रलैंड, स्पेन, और the Netherlands, जिससे यहूद संभाला by Universal Pictures.
the Atlanta Braves हैं a पेशेवर बेसबॉल टोली आधारित in अटलांटा.
The Braves are a member of the पूर्वी Division of प्रमुख League बेसबॉल 's National लीग.
The Braves have played in Turner फ़ील्ड since 1997.
The `` Braves '' नाम, जिससे थी पहला used in 1912, originates इससे a term for a देशी American warrior.
They हैं nicknamed `` the bravos '', and प्रायः referred to as `` America 's Team `` in reference to the टोली 's खेल being broadcast on the nationally उपलब्धियाँ tbs इससे the 1970s जबतक 2007, gaining a चौड़ी fanbase.
इससे 1991 to 2005 the Braves were एक of the सबसे कामयाब franchises in baseball, जीतना प्रभाग titles an unprecedented 14 लगातार टाइम्स in that काल ( omitting the strike-shortened 1994 season in which वहीँ were no आधिकारिक division champions ).
The Braves जीती the NL वेस्ट 1991–93 and the nl ईस्ट 1995–2005, and लौटे to the playoffs as the नेशनल League जंगली कार्ड in 2010.
the braves advanced to the संसार Series पाँच times in the 1990s, जीतना the title in 1995.
चूंकि their डेब्यू in the नेशनल लीग in 1876, the franchise रै won 16 divisional titles, 17 नेशनल लीग pennants, as well as तीन World श्रेणी championships—in 1914 as the बोस्टन braves, in 1957 as the मिल्वौकी Braves, और in 1995 in अटलांटा.
the braves are the तभी MLB franchise to have won the World श्रेणी in तीन अलग home cities.
the क्लबों is एक of the National League 's two बाकी charter franchises ( the अन्य होने the शिकागो शावक ) और थी संस्थापित in बोस्टन, मैसाचुसेट्स, in 1871 as the बोस्टन रेड Stockings ( नहीं to be उलझन with the अमरीकी लीग 's बोस्टन रेड sox ).
They हैं माना `` the oldest continuously playing टोली in major उत्तर अमरीकी खेल. ''
There is an argument as to जो is actually पुरानी because although the Cubs हैं a पूरा season `` older '' ( formed as the Chicago श्वेत stockings in 1870 ) Chicago खोया two seasons to the ग्रेट Chicago Fire, thus the braves have निभाई अधिक consecutive सीज़न.
After various name परिवर्तन ( such as the बोस्टन beaneaters ), the टोली संचालित as the Boston braves लिये सबसे of the first हाफ of the 20th century.
in 1953, the team moved to Milwaukee, विस्कॉन्सिन और became the Milwaukee braves, followed by the move to अटलांटा in 1966.
The टोली 's कार्यकाल in अटलांटा is famous लिये हांक आरोन तोड़कर Babe रुथ 's करियर घर run रिकार्ड in 1974, though the बहुमत of Aaron 's घर रनों यहूद hit जबकि the टोली was in मिल्वौकी.
उसके record stood until 2007, जब सैन फ्रांसिस्को बाएँ क्षेत्ररक्षक बैरी bonds broke the record.
The पत्ते of a beech पेड़
3d रेंडरिंग of a μCT स्कैन of a leaf piece, resolution circa 40 μm/ voxel.
a पत्ता is an अंग of a vascular plant, as पारिभाषित in वनस्पति शर्तें, and in particular in संयंत्र morphology.
foliage is a mass संज्ञा that refers to पत्ते as a विशेषता of पौधे.
typically a पत्ता is a thin, flattened organ borne ऊपर मैदान and specialized लिये photosynthesis, but many प्रकार of leaves हैं adapted in तरीके almost unrecognisable in those शर्तें : some are not flat ( for उदाहरण अनेक succulent पत्ते और conifers ), कुछ हैं नहीं above मैदान ( ऐसे as बल्ब तराजू ), और कुछ are बगैर प्रमुख photosynthetic फलन ( consider लिये उदाहरण cataphylls, spines, और cotyledons ).
Conversely, अनेक structures of non-vascular पौधे, or भी of some lichens, जिससे are नहीं पौधे at all ( in the sense of होने members of the kingdom plantae ), do dekh and फलन much जैसे पत्ते.
furthermore, अनेक structures found in vascular पौधे dekh जैसे leaves but हैं नहीं actually leaves ; वे differ इससे leaves in their structures और origins.
उदाहरण include phyllodes, cladodes, और phylloclades.
Title card लिये the 1937 Our गिरोह comedy rushin ' Ballet.
हमारी Gang ( also known as The छोटी दुष्टों or Hal Roach 's दुष्टों ) हैं a श्रेणी of American कॉमेडी short films about a समूह of poor पड़ोस children और their adventures.
Created by comedy निर्माता एचएएल रोच, the series is noted for showing children behaving in a अपेक्षाकृत प्राकृतिक way, as रोच और असली director Robert F. mcgowan worked to फिल्मी the unaffected, कच्चा nuances apparent in regular children rather than have them imitate वयस्क acting styles.
in जोड, Our गिरोह notably put लड़कों, लड़कियों, whites and अश्वेतों साथ in a group as equals, कुछ कि `` broke नई ground, '' according to film इतिहासकार लियोनार्ड Maltin.
Such a thing had never महरूम किया पहले in सिनेमा लकिन रै चूंकि been repeated बाद the success of Our Gang.
The पहला production at the रोच स्टुडियो in 1922 was a श्रेणी of मूक छोटी subjects.
जब रोच बदला वितरकों from Pathé to metro-goldwyn-mayer ( mgm ) in 1927, और converted the श्रेणी to ध्वनि in 1929, the श्रेणी took बंद भी further.
उत्पादन जारी at the रोच स्टुडियो until 1938, when the series थी sold to mgm, who तब जारी producing the comedies until 1944.
The Our गिरोह श्रेणी शामिल a total of 220 शॉर्ट्स और एक विशेषता फिल्मी, सामान्य spanky, featuring over forty-one चाइल्ड अभिनेताओं.
as mgm retained the अधिकारों to the Our गिरोह trademark following उनके purchase of the उत्पादन अधिकारों, the 80 roach-produced `` टॉकीज़ '' were syndicated for टेलीविज़न अंतर्गत the शीर्षक The Little Rascals beginning in 1955.
Both Roach 's The Little दुष्टों पैकेज ( now owned by CBS टेलीविज़न वितरण ) and mgm 's Our गिरोह पैकेज ( अभी स्वामित्व by warner भाईs. entertainment ) have since remained in अनुप्रयोग, साथ आवधिक नई प्रोडक्शन्स based on the शॉर्ट्स surfacing over the सालो, सहित a 1994 Little Rascals feature film released by सार्वभौमिक तस्वीरें.
zacharias janssen ( भी zacharias जानसन or sacharias जानसन ) ( b.1580-88, d.pre-1632 to 1638 ) थी a डच spectacle-maker from Middelburg संबद्ध साथ the invention of the पहला ऑप्टिकल दूरदर्शी.
janssen is sometimes also credited for inventing the first truly यौगिक सूक्ष्मदर्शी.
however, the उत्पत्ति of the सूक्ष्मदर्शी, just जैसे the origin of the telescope, is a पदार्थ of बहस.
झील Tahoe ( ; washo : dáʔaw ) is a large freshwater lake in the Sierra Nevada of the संयुक्त राज्य.
at a सतह उन्नयन of, it is स्तिथ along the किनारा between कैलिफ़ोर्निया और नेवाडा, west of कार्सन नगर.
Lake tahoe is the largest अल्पाइन lake in North America.
Its गहराई is, making it the United राज्य 's second-deepest ( the deepest is Crater Lake in ऑरेगॉन, being deeper, at ).
additionally, झील tahoe is सूचीबद्ध as the 26th largest lake by volume in the world at.
The झील was formed about 2 लाख years पहले and is a part of the Lake Tahoe जलाशय साथ the modern lake being shaped दौरान the ice आयु.
It is ज्ञात लिये the स्पष्टता of its water and the परिदृश्य of surrounding mountains on all पहलू.
the क्षेत्रफल surrounding the झील is भी referred to as झील tahoe, or simply tahoe.
झील Tahoe is a प्रमुख tourist आकर्षण in दोनो नेवाडा और California.
it is घर to a क्रमांक of ski resorts, गर्मियाँ बाहरी मनोरंजन, और tourist आकर्षण.
Snow और skiing हैं a significant part of the क्षेत्रफल 's अर्थव्यवस्था and reputation.
पहाड़ और झील scenery हैं attractions throughout the साल.
The नेवाडा side भी includes large कसीनो.
राजमार्गों provide year-round अभिगम from रेनो, कार्सन नगर, और sacramento.
Page 1 of the Twenty-seventh Amendment 's प्रमाणन in the नेशनल अभिलेख
पेज 2 of the amendment 's प्रमाणन
पेज 3 of the amendment 's प्रमाणन
the twenty-seventh Amendment ( Amendment xxvii ) prohibits any विधि that increases or decreases the सैलरी of members of the कॉंग्रेस इससे taking effect जबतक the प्रारंभ of the अगला set of terms of दफ्तर लिये Representatives.
it is the most recent amendment to the United राज्य संविधान.
it was submitted to the states for ratification in 1789 और थी adopted in 1992.
“first वे आए... ” is a famous बयान and उत्तेजक poem attributed to पादरी मार्टिन niemöller ( 1892–1984 ) परिचय the sloth of German intellectuals following the nazis ' rise to power और the subsequent purging of their चुनी लक्ष्य, समूह बाद समूह.
वहीँ is कुछ असहमति over the exact wording of the quotation and जब it थी निर्मित ; the content of the quotation may have महरूम प्रस्तुत differently by niemöller on अलग अवसरों.
इस सूची of आइलैंड्स by area शामिल all islands in the संसार greater than 2,500 km2 ( ) और several अन्य आइलैंड्स over 500 km2 ( ), sorted in descending अनुक्रम by area.
लिये तुलना, महाद्वीपों are also दिखाया.
चार तिहाई लोगो
The Four तिहाई system is a मानक निर्मित by ओलम्पस and Kodak for डिजिटल single-lens reflex कैमरा ( dslr ) design और development. < ref name='dpreview.com 2001-02-13 ' >
The system provides a मानक that, साथ डिजिटल कैमरे and lenses उपलब्धियाँ from अनेक निर्माताओं, allows लिये the इंटरचेंज of lenses और bodies इससे different निर्माताओं.
seems to cover the मानक.
Proponents describe it as an खोलें मानक, but कंपनियाँ may only use it under a non-disclosure अनुबंध.
नापसंद पुरानी SLR प्रणालियों, Four तिहाई रै been designed from the मैदान up to be entirely digital.
Many lenses हैं extensively computerized, to the पाइंट that Olympus offers फर्मवेयर updates for many of उन्हें.
लेंस डिज़ाइन रै महरूम tailored to the आवश्यकताएँ of digital सेंसर, सबसे notably through telecentric डिजाइन.
the size of the सेंसर is significantly smaller than for सबसे DSLRs और इस implies that lenses, especially telephoto lenses, can be छोटी.
लिये उदाहरण, a Four तिहाई lens साथ a 300 mm फोकल लंबाई होता कवर परिचय the वही angle of view as a 600 mm focal लंबाई lens लिये the 35 mm फिल्मी standard, और is correspondingly more कॉम्पैक्ट.
Thus, the चार Thirds प्रणाली रै क्रॉप फ़ैक्टर ( फोकल लंबाई गुणक ) of about 2, and while this enables longer focal length लिये greater magnification, it करता n't aid the manufacture of चौड़ी angle lenses.
the image sensor स्वरूप, generally इंटरमीडिएट between those of larger slrs and छोटी compact cameras, generally gives levels of cost, प्रदर्शन and convenience इंटरमीडिएट between those two वर्ग.
hvac प्रणालियों उपयोग वेंटिलेशन air ducts installed throughout a building to supply conditioned air to a room through outlet vents, पुकारा diffusers ; and नलिकाएं to हटाएँ एयर through return-air grilles.
hvac ( हीटिंग, वेंटिलेशन, और एयर conditioning ) is the प्रौद्योगिकी of अंदर and ऑटोमोटिव environmental सुकून.
HVAC system design is a subdiscipline of mechanical engineering, आधारित on the सिद्धान्त of thermodynamics, fluid mechanics, और ऊष्मा transfer.
प्रशीतन is sometimes added to the field 's abbreviation as HVAC & R or HVACR, or ventilating is dropped as in hacr ( ऐसे as the नामांकन of hacr-rated circuit ब्रेकर्स ).
hvac is important in the डिज़ाइन of medium to large औद्योगिक और दफ्तर इमारतें such as skyscrapers and in समुद्री environments ऐसे as aquariums, जहाँ safe और healthy building शर्तें हैं regulated with आदर to temperature and आर्द्रता, using fresh एयर इससे बाहरी.
वेंटिलेशन on the downdraught प्रणाली, by impulsion, or the 'plenum ' principle, लागू to schoolrooms ( 1899 )
Heating, ventilating, and एयर कंडीशनिंग is आधारित on आविष्कारों और discoveries बना by निकोलय lvov, माइकल फैराडे, Willis वाहक, reuben trane, जेम्स Joule, William Rankine, sadi carnot, और अनेक अन्य.
the invention of the components of hvac प्रणालियों गई hand-in-hand with the औद्योगिक revolution, और new विधि of modernization, उच्चतर efficiency, and प्रणाली कंट्रोल हैं constantly introduced by कंपनियाँ और आविष्कारक worldwide.
The तीन सेंट्रल कृत्यों of heating, ventilating, और air-conditioning हैं interrelated, especially साथ the need to provide थर्मल सुकून and स्वीकार्य indoor एयर quality भीतर reasonable installation, आपरेशन, and मेंटेनेंस लागत.
HVAC systems can provide वेंटिलेशन, reduce air घुसपैठ, और maintain pressure संबंध between spaces.
the means of एयर delivery and हटाना इससे स्पेसेस is ज्ञात as रूम एयर distribution.
the starting पाइंट in carrying आउट an estimate दोनो लिये कूलिंग and heating depends on the exterior जलवायु और interior specified conditions.
however before लेने up the ऊष्मा लोड calculation, it is जरुरी to ढूँढें भैस air requirements लिये प्रत्येक क्षेत्रफल in विवरण, as pressurization is an महत्वपूर्ण consideration.
In modern buildings the डिज़ाइन, installation, और कंट्रोल प्रणालियों of these functions are integrated into एक or अधिक HVAC प्रणालियों.
For बहुत छोटी buildings, ठेकेदारों सामान्यतः क्षमता इंजीनियर and select HVAC प्रणालियों और उपकरण.
लिये larger इमारतें, building सेवाएं designers and इंजीनियर्स, ऐसे as mechanical, architectural, or building सेवाएं engineers analyze, डिज़ाइन, and बताएँ the HVAC systems, और specialty mechanical contractors fabricate और आयोग उन्हें.
भवन permits और code-compliance inspections of the संस्थापना हैं normally जरूरी लिये सब आकार of buildings.
the HVAC industry is a worldwide enterprise, with भूमिकाएँ सहित आपरेशन और maintenance, system design and construction, equipment manufacturing and बिक्री, और in शिक्षा और शोध.
the HVAC उद्योग was historically regulated by the निर्माताओं of hvac equipment, लकिन regulating और मानकों संगठन such as hardi, ASHRAE, smacna, ACCA, Uniform Mechanical कोड, International mechanical कोड, और amca have महरूम established to support the industry और encourage ऊँची मानकों और achievement.
royal Navy कमांडर James Bond, cmg, RNVR, is a fictional character निर्मित by अंग्रेजों journalist और novelist इयान Fleming in 1953.
He is the समर्थक of the जेम्स बंध श्रेणी of novels, films, comics and video खेल.
फ्लेमिंग wrote बारह बंध novels and two short स्टोरी संग्रहण before उसके death, although the पिछला दो books— the Man with the सुनहरी Gun और octopussy और the Living daylights —were प्रकाशित posthumously.
the बंध character is a रहस्य सेवा एजेंट, code क्रमांक 007, residing in London but active internationally.
बंध was a कम्पोजिट character जो was आधारित on a क्रमांक of कमांडो whom फ्लेमिंग knew दौरान उसके service in the Naval प्रज्ञा Division during World युद्ध II, to जिसको फ्लेमिंग added उसके अपना style and a क्रमांक of his अपना tastes ; बंध 's नाम थी appropriated इससे अमरीकी ornithologist James Bond.
Bond रै a क्रमांक of अक्षर traits जिससे चलाएं throughout the books, including an enjoyment of cars, a प्रेम of खाना और drink, और an average सेवन of साठ custom-made cigarettes a day.
Since फ्लेमिंग 's मौत in 1964, वहीँ have महरूम अन्य authorised writers of बंध सामग्री, including जॉन Gardner, जो wrote fourteen novels and दो novelizations और Raymond बेंसन, who लिखा छह novels, three novelizations और तीन short कहानियां.
वहीँ have भी been तीन लेखक who लिखा एक किताब प्रत्येक, किंग्सले एमिस ( लिखने as रॉबर्ट markham ), सेबेस्टियन faulks और Jeffery Deaver.
additionally a श्रेणी of novels based on बंध 's youth— Young Bond —was लिखा by चार्ली higson.
as spin-offs इससे the साहित्यिक works, वहीँ थी a television अनुकूलन of the पहला novel, कसीनो Royale, in जिससे बंध थी निभाई as an American एजेंट.
a कॉमिक strip श्रेणी भी ran in the रोज़ Express newspaper.
वहीँ have also महरूम twenty-five बंध films ; सात अभिनेताओं have played बंध in ये films.
`` Nature लड़के '' is a song by Eden ahbez, published in 1947.
the सोंग tells a काल्पनिक of a `` strange enchanted boy... जो wandered बहुत दूर '' तभी to learn कि `` the महानतम बात... थी बस to प्रेम और be loved in वापसी ''.
Nat किंग Cole 's 1948 recording of the सोंग थी a प्रमुख hit और `` प्रकृति Boy '' has since become a पॉप and jazz standard, साथ dozens of major कलाकारों interpreting the song.
louisiana ( or ;, ; louisiana Creole : léta de la lwizyàn ) is a राज्य located in the दक्षिणी region of the United राज्य of अमेरिका.
louisiana is the 31st सबसे extensive और the 25th सबसे populous of the 50 United States.
इसके capital is baton रूज and largest city is नई Orleans.
louisiana is the तभी राज्य in the U.S. साथ political subdivisions termed parishes, जिससे are लोकल सरकारी 's equivalent to counties.
the largest मोहल्ला by जनसांख्यिकी is East baton रूज मोहल्ला, and the largest by land क्षेत्रफल is Cameron Parish.
much of the राज्य 's lands यहूद formed from sediment धोया down the Mississippi नदी, leaving enormous deltas और विशाल क्षेत्रों of coastal दलदल और मग्न.
ये contain a rich दक्षिणी biota ; ठेठ examples शामिल पक्षियों such as आइबिस and egrets.
वहीँ are भी many प्रजाति of tree frogs, and fish ऐसे as sturgeon and paddlefish.
in more elevated क्षेत्रों, आग is a प्राकृतिक process in the landscape, और has produced extensive क्षेत्रों of longleaf पाइन वन और गीला savannas.
ये support an exceptionally विशाल number of संयंत्र प्रजाति, सहित many प्रजाति of orchids और मांसाहारी plants.
कुछ louisiana शहरी environments have a multicultural, बहुभाषी विरासत, होने so strongly बहकावे by an जिसमें of 18th-century फ्रेंच, स्पेनी, देशी अमरीकी ( Indian ) और African संस्कृतियों that वे are माना to be somewhat exceptional in the u.s.
पहले the अमरीकी purchase of the territory, the वर्तमान Louisiana State था महरूम both a स्पेनी and French उपनिवेश.
in जोड, the pattern of development included importing numerous African स्लेव in the 18th सदी, with अनेक from the वही प्रदेश of वेस्ट Africa, यूँ concentrating their culture.
In the post-Civil युद्ध environment, Anglo-Americans increased the pressure लिये Anglicization, और in 1915, अंग्रेज़ी थी बना the तभी आधिकारिक language of the state.
Women 's rights हैं the अधिकारों and entitlements claimed लिये women और लड़कियों of many societies विश्वव्यापी.
In कुछ places ये अधिकारों are institutionalized or समर्थित by विधि, लोकल कस्टम, और आचरण, whereas in अन्य they may be उपेक्षित or suppressed.
They differ इससे broader धारणाएं of इंसान rights through claims of an अंतर्निहित ऐतिहासिक and परंपरागत पूर्वाग्रह विरूद्ध the कसरत of rights by women और लड़कियों in favour of मेन and लड़कों.
मुद्दे commonly संबद्ध साथ धारणाएं of महिलाओं 's rights शामिल, हालांकि are नहीं सीमित to, the right : to bodily अखंडता और autonomy ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to थाम पब्लिक दफ्तर ; to work ; to fair मजदूरी or equal pay ; to own प्रॉपर्टी ; to शिक्षा ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to डालें into legal अनुबंध ; and to have marital, parental and धार्मिक अधिकारों.
The कानून of विज्ञान or वैज्ञानिक कानून हैं कथन that describe, predict, और शायद explain क्यों, a दायरा of phenomena behave as they appear to in प्रकृति.
the पद `` विधि '' has विविध उपयोग in अनेक cases : approximate, सटीक, व्यापक or narrow theories, in सब प्राकृतिक scientific disciplines ( भौतिकी, chemistry, biology, भूविज्ञान, astronomy etc. ).
an analogous term लिये a scientific विधि is a principle.
Scientific विधिs:
summarize a large collection of facts संकल्पित by experiment into a single statement,
can प्रायः be प्रतिपादित mathematically as एक or अनेक कथन or समीकरण, or at तनिक stated in a single वाक्य, so that it can be प्रयुक्त to भविष्यवाणी the निष्कर्ष of an प्रयोग, दिए the initial, boundary, और other शारीरिक conditions of the प्रक्रियाओं जिससे take place,
are strongly समर्थित by empirical प्रमाण - वे हैं scientific ज्ञान that प्रयोग have repeatedly verified ( और never falsified ).
Their accuracy करता not बदलें जब नई theories हैं worked आउट, लकिन बल्कि the scope of अनुप्रयोग, चूंकि the समीकरण ( if कोई ) representing the law करता नहीं change.
as साथ अन्य वैज्ञानिक ज्ञान, वे do not have निरपेक्ष certainty like mathematical theorems or identities, और it is सदा संभावित for a विधि to be overturned by भविष्य observations.
are प्रायः quoted as a आधारभूत controlling influence बल्कि than a वर्णन of observed तथ्य.
I.e. `` the कानून of गति require कि ''
कानून differ इससे hypotheses and postulates, which are proposed दौरान the वैज्ञानिक प्रक्रम before और during validation by experiment and अवलोकन.
ये हैं not कानून चूंकि वे have नहीं महरूम verified to the same उपाधि और may नहीं be sufficiently general, हालांकि they may lead to the formulation of laws.
a law is a more solidified और formal statement, आसुत इससे repeated प्रयोग.
Although the अवधारणाओं of a law or principle in nature is borderline to दर्शनशास्त्र, and presents the depth to जिससे गणित can describe nature, वैज्ञानिक कानून हैं considered from a वैज्ञानिक perspective और follow the scientific method ; वे `` serve their purpose '' rather than `` questioning वास्तविकता '' ( philosophical ) or `` statements of लॉजिकल absolution '' ( गणितीय ).
For उदाहरण, whether a विधि `` refers to वास्तविकता '' is a philosophical समस्या, rather than वैज्ञानिक.
Fundamentally, सब वैज्ञानिक laws follow from physics, laws which occur in अन्य sciences ultimately follow इससे physical laws.
प्रायः, from mathematically आधारभूत viewpoints, universal constants emerge इससे scientific कानून.
the लॉन्च of the प्लेस्टेशन 3 into the जापानी मार्केट on 10 नवम्बर 2006 चिह्नित the second प्रमुख सातवाँ पीढी entertainment प्रणाली to be released.
the प्रणाली was released seven days later on 17 नवम्बर in the संयुक्त राज्य.
परिचय into अन्य संसार markets थी delayed by a shortage of diodes लिये use in the blu-ray disc खिलाड़ी ; the यंत्र was launched in European और other संसार markets in the first हाफ of 2007.
लॉरेन fenmore baldwin ( formerly विलियम्स and Grainger ) is a fictional character इससे the सीबीएस साबुन operas the Young और the Restless और The Bold और the Beautiful, portrayed by Tracey E. Bregman.
She made उसके डेब्यू दौरान the एपीसोड airing on जनवरी 21, 1983.
in 1992, bregman began बनाना विरल appearances on The Bold और the खूबसूरत, बाद resulting in the अक्षर migrating there fully in 1995.
following a guest रूप in 2000, bregman लौटे to The यंग and the Restless on अगस्त 24, 2001, remaining on पुनरावर्ती status.
In 2013, it थी घोषित that bregman था महरूम लगाई on अनुबंध.
Much of लॉरेन 's history रै revolved around उसके romances साथ पॉल विलियम्स, स्कॉट grainger, sr., and Michael baldwin among many अन्य causing a fierce rivalry with traci एबॉट connolly.
लॉरेन is भी प्रसिद्ध for her long, violent फंसने with शीला Carter.
the 2010 NBA Finals थी the National Basketball संघ ( एनबीए ) चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी लिये the 2009–10 season.
The best-of-seven playoff was contested between the लॉस Angeles लेकर्स, champions of the Western सम्मेलन और defending एनबीए champions, और the Boston Celtics, champions of the पूर्वी सम्मेलन.
the लेकर्स पराजित the Celtics, four games to तीन, to जीत the मताधिकार 's 16th एनबीए championship.
The 64th edition of the championship श्रेणी थी निभाई between June 3 and जून 17, was ब्रॉडकास्ट on एबीसी, और was watched by an औसत of 18.1 लाख लोगों.
the सेल्टिक्स अर्जित उनके berth into the playoffs by जीतना the Atlantic प्रभाग.
the लेकर्स won the प्रशांत प्रभाग to earn उनके berth.
the सेल्टिक्स पहुँचे the एनबीए फाइनल by defeating the मियामी ऊष्मा in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference पहला गोलाकार, the क्लीवलैंड Cavaliers in the best-of-seven Eastern सम्मेलन semifinals, और defending पूर्वी conference चैंपियन Orlando Magic in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference फाइनल.
the लेकर्स पहुँचे the NBA फाइनल by defeating the ओक्लाहोमा City थंडर in the best-of-seven पश्चिमी Conference पहला Round, the यूटा Jazz in the best-of-seven पश्चिमी सम्मेलन semifinals, and the फीनिक्स Suns in the best-of-seven Western सम्मेलन Finals.
The एनबीए Finals यहूद scheduled in the Major League बेसबॉल World Series 2–3–2 seven game format, साथ the Lakers possessing home-court लाभ as a reward लिये finishing साथ बेहतर regular ऋतु record than the Celtics.
दोहराया baskets इससे स्टार्टर कोबे ब्रायंट, pau Gasol, और Ron Artest brought the लेकर्स close to विजय in खेल 1.
a रिकार्ड तोड़कर प्रदर्शन from Ray एलन 's आठ three-point baskets ensured the सेल्टिक्स a खेल 2 triumph.
Derek Fisher ’s 11 अंक in the fourth quarter helped the Lakers जीत खेल 3.
the Celtics won Game 4 ; it किया n't ठेस कि वे netted an बेहतरीन प्रदर्शन in baskets by the team’s reserves, while Paul पियर्स led the टोली to a Game 5 win साथ 27 अंक on 57 % shooting इससे the floor.
The Lakers avoided विलोपन by winning a निर्णायक खेल 6 with 24 अंक contributed by their बेंच.
Although वे trailed the सेल्टिक्स by 13 points जल्दी in the तीसरा क्वार्टर, the Lakers rallied and जीती उनके दूसरी लगातार championship by लेने over an रोमांचक Game 7 aided by late योगदान on ठोकर by pau gasol और Artest and rebounding.
Bryant was नामित Most मूल्यवान Player of the फाइनल लिये his second consecutive ट्रॉफी.
इस was the पहला एनबीए फाइनल to go the पूरा सात खेल चूंकि and तभी the चौथी चूंकि the एनबीए फाइनल returned to a 2–3–2 स्वरूप in.
the laker franchise has 16 NBA Championships ( पाँच in Minneapolis, 11 in लॉस एंजिल्स ) trailing the सेल्टिक्स ' seventeen championships.
the NBA Finals प्रयुक्त the `` संसार श्रेणी '' Format in 1949 मिनियापोलिस लेकर्स पराजित the वॉशिंगटन capitols 4 games to 2 ; in 1953 Minneapolis defeated the New यॉर्क knicks 4 games to 1 ; in 1954 मिनियापोलिस पराजित the syracuse नागरिकों 4 games to 3 ; और in 1955 syracuse नागरिकों पराजित the फोर्ट Wayne Pistons 4 खेल to 3.
the एनबीए होता वापसी to the 2–2–1–1–1 नेशनल Hockey लीग सात game श्रेणी स्वरूप जबतक 1985.
ब्लैक pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering बेल in the परिवार Piperaceae, cultivated लिये its fruit, which is usually सूखी और used as a मसाला और seasoning.
The फल, ज्ञात as a peppercorn when dried, is लगभग in diameter, अंधेरा रेड जब fully वयस्क, और, जैसे all drupes, contains a सिंगल बीज.
Peppercorns, और the ground pepper निकला इससे उन्हें, may be वर्णित simply as pepper, or more precisely as ब्लैक pepper ( पकाया and सूखी unripe फल ), ग्रीन pepper ( सूखी unripe फल ) and white pepper ( dried ripe बीज ).
ब्लैक pepper is देशी to दक्षिण India, and is extensively cultivated वहीँ और elsewhere in तीव्र regions.
फिलहाल वियतनाम is the संसार 's largest निर्माता and exporter of pepper, producing 34 % of the world 's पाइपर nigrum क्रॉप as of 2008.
सूखी मैदान pepper has महरूम प्रयुक्त since प्राचीनता for both इसके फ्लेवर और as a आयुर्विज्ञान.
ब्लैक pepper is the संसार 's सबसे traded spice.
it is एक of the most आम मसाले added to European भोजन और इसके वंशजों.
the spiciness of black pepper is due to the chemical piperine, नहीं to be उलझन साथ the capsaicin कि देता मांसल peppers theirs.
it is in the आधुनिक संसार, often युग्म साथ salt.
in cardiovascular physiology, ejection fraction ( EF ) represents the आयतनी भिन्न of blood pumped आउट of the ventricle ( दिल ) with each दिल ताल or हृदय साईकिल.
it can be लागू to either the सही ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary वाल्व into the pulmonary circulation or the left ventricle which ejects via the aortic वाल्व into the प्रणालीगत परिसंचरण.
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian दिल is the art कि allows सार्थक mathematical expression धमक ef.
noninvasive cardiac इमेजिंग has become a विश्वव्यापी utility enabling study of हृदय प्रदर्शन reproducibly and inexpensively.
Simplified, ejection fraction is a mathematical product अनुमत by cardiac इमेजिंग.
As a गणितीय पद, ejection भिन्न is an एक्सटेंशन of the work of एडाल्फ फिक in cardiac output.
समर्पित technology such as इकोकार्डियोग्राफी, computed टोमोग्राफी, चुम्बकीय अनुनाद इमेजिंग और MUGA स्कैनिंग have definitively अनुमत clinically प्रासंगिक गणित regarding ischemia, जन्मजात दिल बीमारी और Heart विफलता.
the अभियोजक is the मुख्य legal प्रतिनिधि of the अभियोजन in देशों with either the common विधि adversarial प्रणाली, or the सिविल law inquisitorial प्रणाली.
The prosecution is the legal party responsible लिये presenting the case in a दण्ड विचारण against an व्यक्तिगत अभियुक्त of breaking the विधि.
स्ट्रॉबेरी shortcake सबसे commonly अर्थात् a मिठाई in the shortcake family of cakes.
स्ट्रॉबेरी shortcake may भी refer to:
स्ट्रॉबेरी shortcake, a अक्षर और मताधिकार created by अमरीकी Greetings
the shortened शीर्षक of Strawberry on the shortcake, a Japanese रोमांस फिल्म.
Abū al-qāsim Muḥammad इब्न ʿabd allāh इब्न ʿAbd al-muṭṭalib इब्न Hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 जून 632 ), also transliterated as मुहम्मद ( ), थी a religious, political, and सैन्य नेता from Mecca जो एकीकृत अरब into a सिंगल धार्मिक polity under islam.
he is believed by मुसलमान और Bahá'ís to be a मेसेंजर and prophet of God.
Muhammad is लगभग universally माना by मुसलमान as the पिछला prophet भेजा by परमेश्वर for mankind.
non-muslims लिहाज़ मुहम्मद as the संस्थापक of Islam.
मुसलमान consider उसे to be the restorer of an unaltered असली monotheistic आस्था of Adam, Noah, Abraham, मूसा, यीशु, and other नबियों.
Born in about 570 CE in the arabian नगर of मक्का, he थी orphaned at an early age और brought up अंतर्गत the परवाह of उसके ताऊ Abu तालिब.
he later worked mostly as a व्यापारी, as खूब as a shepherd, और थी पहला married by आयु 25.
होने in the आदत of periodically retreating to a cave in the surrounding mountains for अनेक नाइट्स of seclusion और दुआ, he later reported कि it थी there, at age 40, that he प्राप्त उसके first रहस्योद्घाटन from परमेश्वर.
Three years बाद इस इवेंट मुहम्मद प्रारंभ preaching ये खुलासे publicly, proclaiming कि `` परमेश्वर is One ``, that complete `` surrender '' to Him ( lit.
islām ) is the तभी रास्ता ( dīn ) स्वीकार्य to परमेश्वर, और कि he himself थी a नबी और मेसेंजर of God, in the वही रग as other इस्लामी prophets.
मुहम्मद gained few followers जल्दी on, and थी मिले साथ दुश्मनी इससे कुछ Meccan जनजातियों ; he and उसके अनुसरणकर्ता यहूद treated harshly.
To एस्केप persecution, Muhammad sent कुछ of his followers to Abyssinia पहले he और उसके अनुसरणकर्ता in Mecca migrated to मदीना ( तब known as Yathrib ) in the साल 622.
इस इवेंट, the हिज्र, marks the beginning of the इस्लामी पंचांग, जिससे is भी ज्ञात as the hijri Calendar.
In Medina, Muhammad united the जनजातियों under the संविधान of Medina.
बाद आठ years of लड़ साथ the meccan जनजातियों, his अनुसरणकर्ता, who by तब had grown to 10,000, took control of Mecca in the largely शांतिपूर्ण Conquest of Mecca.
he destroyed the pagan मूर्तियों in the नगर और तब भेजा his followers आउट to नष्ट सब of the remaining pagan मंदिरों in पूर्वी अरब.
in 632, a few months after returning to मदीना इससे The विदाई Pilgrimage, मुहम्मद fell ill और died.
by the time of उसके मौत, most of the arabian Peninsula था परिवर्तित to islam, और he था संयुक्त Arabia into a सिंगल Muslim religious polity.
the खुलासे ( or ayah, lit.
`` लक्षण [ of परमेश्वर ] '' ) — which मुहम्मद reported receiving until his मौत – रूप the verses of the Quran, regarded by मुसलमान as the `` शब्द of God '' और around जिससे the धर्म is based.
besides the कुरान, मुहम्मद 's life ( सिरा ) और परंपराओं ( सुन्नत ) हैं also upheld by Muslims as the स्त्रोत of शरीयत law.
वे discuss Muhammad and other prophets of islam साथ reverence, adding the phrase peace be upon उसे whenever their names are mentioned.
जबकि conceptions of मुहम्मद in medieval Christendom and premodern टाइम्स यहूद largely ऋणात्मक, appraisals in modern history have महरूम दूर less so.
the ग्रेट किताबे ( दूसरी संस्करण )
Great Books of the पश्चिमी संसार is a श्रेणी of किताबे originally प्रकाशित in the United राज्य in 1952 by ब्रिटैनिका विश्वकोष inc. to present the Great किताबे in a सिंगल पैकेज of 54 volumes.
The series is now in इसके दूसरी संस्करण and contains 60 आयतन.
the असली सम्पादक of the series chose तीन criteria for समावेश : a किताब must be प्रासंगिक to contemporary मुद्दे, and नहीं only important in its historical कॉन्टेक्स्ट ; it must reward rereading ; और it जरूर be a भाग of `` the great वार्तालाप परिचय the great ideas, '' relevant to at least 25 of the 102 ग्रेट ideas identified by the editors.
किताबे यहूद not चुनी on the basis of जातीय or सांस्कृतिक inclusiveness, ऐतिहासिक influence, or the editors ' agreement साथ the दृश्य expressed.
`` कोका '' is a सोंग लिखा और recorded by jj cale in 1976, but भी known as a cover संस्करण अंकित by eric Clapton.
allmusic calls the latter `` among [ क्लैप्टन 's ] most enduringly लोकप्रिय हिट्स '' और टीप that `` even लिये an कलाकार like क्लैप्टन साथ a विशाल देह of high-quality work, 'cocaine ' बाँधने among his best. ''
Glyn जॉन्स, who had previously worked with The Who, led zeppelin और the Rolling पत्थरों, उत्पादित the Clapton रिकॉर्डिंग, जिससे was released on क्लैप्टन 's 1977 एल्बम Slowhand और as a सिंगल in 1980.
the सजीव संस्करण of `` कोका '', इससे the Just एक Night एल्बम अंकित in Tokyo, charted on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 as the B-side of `` तुलसा Time ``, जिससे was a No. 30 hit in 1980. ``
कोका '' थी एक of अनेक of cale 's गीतों recorded by Clapton, सहित `` After मध्यरात्रि `` और `` Travelin ' लाइट ''.
the आक्रमण on पर्ल Harbor ( called Hawaii Operation or आपरेशन ai by the Japanese इम्पीरियल सामान्य मुख्यालय ( Operation Z in planning ) और the बैटल of पर्ल हार्बर ) थी a आश्चर्य सैन्य स्ट्राइक conducted by the इम्पीरियल जापानी Navy विरूद्ध the United States naval आधार at Pearl हार्बर, हवाई, on the morning of December 7, 1941 ( दिसम्बर 8 in Japan ).
From the standpoint of the defenders, the आक्रमण commenced at 7:48 a.m. हवाई Time.
the attack थी intended as a preventive action in अनुक्रम to रखना the U.S. प्रशांत Fleet from दखल with सैन्य actions the Empire of जापानी was planning in southeast Asia विरूद्ध विदेशी territories of the संयुक्त Kingdom, the नीदरलैंड्स, और the संयुक्त राज्य.
the आधार was attacked by 353 Japanese fighters, bombers and torpedo planes in दो लहरें, launched from छह वायुयान वाहक.
All आठ U.S. नेवी battleships were क्षतिग्रस्त, साथ चार being sunk.
दो of these यहूद बाद उठाया, and साथ the बाकी चार repaired, छह battleships returned to सेवा later in the युद्ध.
the जापानी भी sank or damaged तीन cruisers, तीन destroyers, an anti-aircraft training जलयान, और एक minelayer.
188 U.S. aircraft यहूद नष्ट ; 2,402 अमेरिकी were मारे और 1,282 wounded.
महत्वपूर्ण आधार संस्थापना such as the शक्ति station, shipyard, मेंटेनेंस, and fuel and torpedo भंडार सुविधाएं, as खूब as the submarine पियर and headquarters भवन ( भी घर of the प्रज्ञा section ) were not attacked.
जापानी नुकसान यहूद light : 29 aircraft और five midget submarines खोया, और 65 servicemen मारे or wounded.
एक जापानी sailor was captured.
the आक्रमण आए as a profound शॉक to the अमरीकी लोगों and led सीधे to the American entry into World War ii in both the Pacific और European थिएटर.
the following day ( दिसम्बर 8 ), the United राज्य घोषित युद्ध on Japan.
घरेलू support लिये non-interventionism, which था महरूम strong, disappeared.
clandestine support of ब्रिटेन ( for example the Neutrality Patrol ) was replaced by क्रियाशील गठबंधन.
Subsequent operations by the u.S. prompted Germany और इटली to घोषित युद्ध on the u.S. on December 11, which थी reciprocated by the U.S. the वही day.
वहीँ were numerous historical precedents for unannounced सैन्य कार्रवाई by Japan.
however, the कमी of any औपचारिक चेतावनी, विशेषकर while negotiations यहूद still apparently ongoing, led अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट to proclaim दिसम्बर 7, 1941, `` a तिथि जिससे will live in infamy ``.
Project रनवे ऋतु 2 थी the second season of ब्रावो 's कामयाब Project रनवे, a वास्तविकता competition लिये फ़ैशन designers.
Season 2 began airing on दिसम्बर 7, 2005.
Following a nationwide search पहले in the साल, सोलह designers were chosen as semi-finalists and brought to नई यॉर्क नगर in जून, 2005.
After the first challenge, called `` Road To the Runway '', चौदह गई on to compete as finalists.
The winning पंक्तियां, Chloe dao, प्राप्त $ 100,000 in seed धन to help लॉन्च उसके अपना लकीर, a 2007 शनि Sky roadster, a spread in elle पत्रिका, and a mentorship साथ the banana गणतंत्र डिज़ाइन टोली.
Winning alongside Dao was उसके मॉडल, Grace kelsey, जो received the ELLE पत्रिका स्प्रेड.
माइकल kors and नीना गार्सिया returned as न्यायाधीशों लिये the दूसरी season.
the चौथी judging seat घुमाया प्रत्येक week, based on the चुनौती.
Tim gunn, fashion कुर्सी at पार्सन्स the नई School लिये डिज़ाइन, returned as a mentor लिये the designers.
कारा janx later appeared in Project रनवे : All सितारों in 2012, where वो समाप्त 7th out of 13.
Andrae gonzalo, in the same साल, competed in the second ऋतु of the All सितारों संस्करण रखकर 10th आउट of 13.
an उदाहरण of a heraclius mule
In numismatics, a खच्चर is a coin or पदक minted with obverse and reverse डिजाइन not सामान्यतः देखी on the same टुकड़ा.
ये can be जानबूझकर or उत्पादित by गलती.
This type of error is अत्यधिक sought बाद, और उदाहरण can लाने steep prices इससे collectors.
The earliest mules are मिला among प्राचीन यूनानी and रोमन सिक्के.
राय is विभाजित between those who सोचो कि वे are आकस्मिक, the परिणाम of an गलत संयोजन of a नई die with one कि had officially been withdrawn from उपयोग, or the कार्य of coiners working with मरता stolen इससे an आधिकारिक mint, शायद at a समय जब एक of उन्हें चाहिए have महरूम नष्ट.
the name गर्भाशयी इससे the खच्चर, the संकर offspring of a घोड़ा और a donkey, due to ऐसे a सिक्का having दो पहलू intended for different coins, much as a खच्चर रै अभिभावक of दो अलग प्रजाति.
इस पेज documents the tornadoes और बवंडर outbreaks of 2010.
The majority of tornadoes रूप in the u.S., लकिन they can occur लगभग anywhere under the सही शर्तें.
a lesser क्रमांक occur outside the u.S., सबसे notably in भाग of neighboring दक्षिणी कनाडा during the उत्तरी गोलार्ध 's गर्मियाँ ऋतु, but हैं also ज्ञात in South America, यूरोपीय, एशिया, और ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
There were 1,531 tornadoes reported in the संयुक्त States in 2010 ( of which at least 1,266 were पुष्टि ), with 45 confirmed fatalities.
elsewhere in the world, 11 लोगों were मारे in tornadoes, छह in अर्जेंटीना, तीन in the बहामा, one in Bangladesh, और एक in जर्मनी.
the साल थी near average लिये tornadoes despite an extremely quiet जल्दी वसन्त period, however such बदला बाद a विशाल upswing starting in late April और a व्यस्त लेट spring और गर्मियाँ काल.
The पतझड़ महीने यहूद थोड़ा above औसत.
A lymphocyte is a type of श्वेत blood कोशिका in the vertebrate immune प्रणाली.
Under the सूक्ष्मदर्शी, lymphocytes can be विभाजित into विशाल lymphocytes and छोटी lymphocytes.
विशाल granular lymphocytes शामिल natural killer cells ( NK कोशिकाएं ).
छोटी lymphocytes consist of t कोशिकाएं और b cells.
खिड़कियाँ powershell is Microsoft 's कार्य automation फ्रेमवर्क, consisting of a command-line शेल and associated scripting language निर्मित on.neT फ्रेमवर्क.
powershell provides पूरा access to COM और wmi, enabling administrators to perform प्रशासनिक कार्य on दोनो local and remote खिड़कियाँ प्रणालियों.
in powershell, प्रशासनिक कार्य हैं generally performed by cmdlets ( सुनाया command-lets ), which हैं specialized.NET वर्ग implementing a particular आपरेशन.
Sets of cmdlets may be combined together in scripts, executables ( जिससे हैं standalone अनुप्रयोग ), or by instantiating नियमित.neT classes ( or wmi/com Objects ).
ये work by accessing आंकड़ा in अलग data stores, like the filesystem or रजिस्ट्री, which are बना available to the PowerShell runtime via खिड़कियाँ powershell प्रदाताओं.
खिड़कियाँ powershell भी provides a hosting api with which the Windows PowerShell runtime can be embedded inside अन्य applications.
These अनुप्रयोग can then उपयोग Windows PowerShell functionality to implement निश्चित परिचालन, सहित those उजागर via the आलेखीय इंटरफ़ेस.
इस काबिलियत रै महरूम प्रयुक्त by Microsoft Exchange Server 2007 to expose इसके management functionality as powershell cmdlets और प्रदाताओं और implement the graphical प्रबन्धन टूल्स as powershell होस्ट which invoke the necessary cmdlets.
अन्य microsoft अनुप्रयोग including microsoft SQL Server 2008 also expose their management interface via powershell cmdlets.
साथ powershell, graphical interface-based management अनुप्रयोग on खिड़कियाँ हैं layered on top of खिड़कियाँ PowerShell.
A powershell एनक्रिप्शन interface for खिड़कियाँ उत्पाद is mandated by the Common अभियान्त्रिकी मापदण्ड.
खिड़कियाँ powershell शामिल इसके अपना extensive, console-based सहायता, समान to man pages in Unix shells, via the get-help cmdlet.
Mary poppins is a 1964 musical फिल्मी starring Julie एंड्रयूज, Dick वैन Dyke, David tomlinson, and glynis Johns, उत्पादित by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी, और आधारित on the Mary Poppins किताबे श्रेणी by P. L. Travers.
The फिल्मी थी निर्देशित by रॉबर्ट stevenson and लिखा by विधेयक वाल्श and डॉन DaGradi, with songs by the Sherman Brothers.
It was शॉट at वॉल्ट डिज़्नी studios in Burbank, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
जूली एंड्रयूज जीती the Academy पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री लिये her performance as मरियम poppins and the फिल्मी also जीती ऑस्कर लिये Best फिल्मी Editing, असली म्यूज़िक स्कोर, बेहतरीन Song लिये `` chim chim Cher-ee '' and बेहतरीन Visual प्रभाव, and received a total of 13 nominations.
A स्टोरी चाप is an extended or continuing storyline in episodic storytelling मीडिया ऐसे as टेलीविज़न, comic books, कॉमिक strips, boardgames, video games, and in some मामले, films.
on a television program, for उदाहरण, the स्टोरी होता unfold over अनेक episodes.
in टेलीविज़न, the use of the स्टोरी चाप is much अधिक common in dramas than in comedies, विशेषकर in साबुन operas.
webcomics are more संभावित to उपयोग story arcs than समाचारपत्र comics, as सबसे web comics have पठनीय अभिलेख online कि a newcomer to the स्ट्रिप can read in अनुक्रम to समझे कया is going on.
Although स्टोरी arcs have existed for decades, the पद `` स्टोरी चाप '' थी coined in 1988 in संबंध to the टेलीविज़न series wiseguy, और थी जल्दी adapted लिये other उपयोग.
अनेक American कॉमिक किताब श्रेणी हैं now written in चार or six-issue arcs, भीतर a continuing series.
Short story arcs हैं easier to package as trade paperbacks for पुनर्विक्रय, और अधिक accessible to the कैज़ुअल reader than the never-ending निरंतरता कि once characterised कॉमिक्स.
Black शुक्रवार is the day following Thanksgiving Day in the United राज्य, often regarded as the शुरूआत of the Christmas खरीदारी ऋतु.
in हाल years, सबसे major रिटेलर have खोली अत्यधिक early और offered promotional बिक्री to लात off the holiday shopping season, similar to मुक्केबाज़ी दिन बिक्री in अनेक राष्ट्रमंडल Nations.
ब्लैक Friday is नहीं an official public अवकाश as such, but अनेक non-retail कर्मचारी and स्कूलों have दोनो थैंक्सगिविंग और the day after बंद, followed by a वीकेंड, thereby increasing the number of potential shoppers.
It रै routinely महरूम the busiest खरीदारी day of the साल चूंकि 2005, हालांकि news रिपोर्ट्स, जिससे at कि time यहूद inaccurate, have described it as the busiest shopping दिन of the साल लिये a much longer period of समय.
the day 's नाम originated in Philadelphia, जहाँ it originally was used to describe the भारी and disruptive pedestrian and vehicle ट्रैफ़िक जिससे would occur on the दिन after थैंक्सगिविंग.
Use of the term प्रारंभ before 1961 और began to see broader use outside फिलाडेल्फिया around 1975.
बाद an alternative explanation began to be offered : कि `` ब्लैक शुक्रवार '' indicates the पाइंट at जिससे रिटेलर begin to turn a profit, or are `` ''.
लिये अनेक सालो, it थी आम लिये रिटेलर to open at 6:00 a.m., लकिन in the late 2000s अनेक था crept to 5:00 or even 4:00.
This was taken to a नई चरम in 2011, when अनेक रिटेलर ( including निशाना, kohl 's, macy 's, बेहतरीन Buy, and bealls ) opened at मध्यरात्रि लिये the first time.
in 2012, walmart और several other retailers announced कि they होता खोलें most of उनके स्टोर्स at 8:00 p.m. on Thanksgiving Day ( except in राज्य where खोलने on Thanksgiving is prohibited due to ब्लू कानून, such as Massachusetts जहाँ वे स्टिल खोली around मध्यरात्रि ), prompting काल्स लिये a walkout among कुछ workers.
ब्लैक शुक्रवार shopping is ज्ञात लिये attracting आक्रामक crowds, साथ सालाना reports of assaults, shootings, and throngs of लोगों trampling on अन्य shoppers in an attempt to मिलेंगी the बेहतरीन सौदे on a उत्पाद पहले आपूर्तियाँ run out.
The परिवार कि preys is a 2008 अमरीकी movie नाटक written, उत्पादित, और निर्देशित by Tyler Perry.
the पटकथा focuses on दो परिवारों, one wealthy and the अन्य working class, जिनकी lives हैं intertwined in दोनो प्रेम और कारोबार.
The फिल्म is the दूसरी of चार in जिससे पेरी 's signature अक्षर, Madea, करता not मेक an रूप.
It is also the second Perry-directed फिल्मी ( alongside पापा 's Little लड़कियों ) that is not आधारित on any of the फिल्मकार 's स्टेज plays.
जाल 10, Net 15, जाल 30 और Net 60 ( भी Net 10 दिनों, et al ) are फ़ॉर्म of व्यापार credit which बताएँ कि the net राशि ( the कुल बकाया on the चालान ) is expected to be paid in पूरा और प्राप्त by the seller भीतर 10, 15, 30 or 60 दिनों after the goods हैं dispatched or service is समाप्त.
जाल 30 or जाल 60 शर्तें हैं often coupled साथ a credit लिये early भुगतान.
the शब्द जाल in इस sense अर्थात् `` total after सब छूट. ''
It originally गर्भाशयी from the Latin nitere ( to shine ) and nitidus ( elegant, trim ), और more recently इससे the फ्रेंच net ( शार्प, neat, साफ ).
roadtown, tortola
the अंग्रेजों West इंडीज यहूद the आइलैंड्स in और around the caribbean that यहूद भाग of the British Empire.
In 1912, the अंग्रेजों West Indies यहूद विभाजित into आठ colonies : the Bahamas, Barbados, British Guiana, British Honduras, जमैका ( साथ इसके dependencies the Turks and caicos Islands और the केमन आइलैंड्स ), Trinidad and टोबैगो, the Windward Islands और the leeward Islands.
Between 1958 और 1962, सब of the द्वीप territories except the British वर्जिन आइलैंड्स, the बहामा, अंग्रेजों होंडुरास and अंग्रेजों guiana यहूद organised into the वेस्ट इंडीज संघ.
it was hoped कि the संघ would become independent as a single nation, but it had सीमित शक्तियां, अनेक व्यावहारिक problems, and a कमी of लोकप्रिय support.
नतीजतन, the वेस्ट इंडीज संघ was dissolved.
सबसे of the territories, सहित सब the larger ones, हैं अभी स्वतंत्र as पृथक देशों, with membership to अनेक अंतरराष्ट्रीय forums ऐसे as the संगठन of American राज्य, the संघ of caribbean राज्य, the संसार Trade Organization, the संयुक्त Nations, the caribbean Community, the राष्ट्रमंडल of राष्ट्र and the caribbean विकास बैंको among अन्य.
the शेष are अंग्रेजों overseas territories.
All the former राष्ट्र of the अंग्रेजों वेस्ट इंडीज, मगर the राष्ट्रमंडल of डोमिनिकन, Guyana and त्रिनिदाद और Tobago, हैं Commonwealth realms.
the term is स्टिल प्रयुक्त लिये अंग्रेजों विदेशी territories in the Caribbean, ऐसे as the Cayman Islands.
the बाकी अंग्रेजों West इंडीज
`` What a अद्भुत World '' is a सोंग written by bob thiele ( as `` George डगलस '' ) और जार्ज David Weiss.
it was पहला recorded by Louis Armstrong और released as a सिंगल in 1967.
Thiele and Weiss were both prominent in the म्यूज़िक संसार ( thiele as a producer and वेइस as a composer/performer ).
आर्मस्ट्रांग 's रिकॉर्डिंग थी inducted in the ग्रैमी हॉल of कीर्ति in 1999.
The publishing लिये इस song is नियंत्रित by Memory लेन Music Group, Carlin Music corp., and Bug Music, Inc.
Inauguration दिन 2009 on the वेस्ट steps of the u.S. कैपिटल.
अध्यक्ष George W. बुश और पहला Lady लौरा Bush सीसे the inaugural परेड bas Pennsylvania Avenue to the श्वेत House, 2005
the inauguration of the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य is a ceremonial इवेंट marking the शुरुआत of a नई four-year पद of a अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य.
The day a अध्यक्षीय उद्घाटन occurs is ज्ञात as `` Inauguration दिन '' और occurs on January 20 ( or 21st if the 20th is a संडे ).
( Prior to the Twentieth Amendment, the date थी कूच 4, the दिन of the साल on which the Constitution of the United राज्य first took प्रभाव in 1789 ; the last उद्घाटन to लो प्लेस on the पुरानी तिथि was Franklin D. Roosevelt 's पहला एक on March 4, 1933. )
The most recent पब्लिक presidential उद्घाटन रस्म, the swearing in of President बराक Obama to शुरू उसके दूसरी four-year term in दफ्तर, took प्लेस on सोमवार, जनवरी 21, 2013.
the only inauguration तत्व mandated by the United राज्य संविधान is कि the अध्यक्ष मेक an शपथ or प्रतिज्ञान पहले that person can `` डालें on the निष्पादन '' of the दफ्तर of the presidency.
However, over the सालो, various परंपराओं have arisen that have विस्तारित the उद्घाटन from a सरल oath-taking ceremony to a day-long event, सहित parades, भाषणों, और गेंदें.
इससे the प्रेसिडेंसी of एंड्रयू Jackson through that of Jimmy कार्टर, the primary उद्घाटन Day रस्म took place on the कैपिटल 's East portico.
Since the 1981 उद्घाटन of Ronald reagan, the रस्म has महरूम आयोजित at the Capitol 's वेस्ट Front.
The inaugurations of William हावर्ड Taft in 1909 और Reagan in 1985 were स्थानांतरित indoors at the कैपिटल due to ठंडा मौसम.
the युद्ध of 1812 and संसार War ii caused two inaugurations to be आयोजित at अन्य स्थितियाँ in वॉशिंगटन, D.C.
जब जार्ज वॉशिंगटन थी inaugurated, the oath थी administered by Robert livingston, Chancellor of New यॉर्क State, in 1789, और by विलियम Cushing, Associate इंसाफ of the Supreme अदालत, in 1793.
Since मुख्य Justice Oliver एल्सवर्थ swore in President जॉन एडम्स, no मुख्य justice रै छूटी an उद्घाटन दिन.
When Inauguration दिन रै गिरे on a Sunday, the मुख्य इंसाफ रै administered the oath to the president on the Sunday privately और तब again the अगला दिन publicly.
When a नई president takes over mid-term due to the मौत or इस्तीफा of a president, the शपथ of दफ्तर is administered लकिन formal, पब्लिक inauguration कार्यक्रम have not been held.
Stefani जोआन एंजेलीना germanotta ( ; born March 28, 1986 ), ज्ञात by her स्टेज नाम महिला गागा, is an अमरीकी सिंगर, songwriter, रिकार्ड निर्माता, नर्तकी, activist, businesswoman, fashion पंक्तियां, अभिनेत्री and philanthropist.
born और उठाया in New यॉर्क नगर, वो primarily studied at the Convent of the Sacred Heart and briefly attended नई York University 's Tisch स्कूल of the कला before withdrawing to फ़ोकस on her musical करियर.
She जल्द began performing in the चट्टान म्यूज़िक झाँकी of Manhattan 's निम्नतर East Side.
By the समाप्त of 2007, record कार्यपालिका and निर्माता विंसेंट हर्बर्ट signed her to उसके label streamline Records, an imprint of interscope Records.
initially working as a songwriter at Interscope Records, उसके vocal abilities captured the attention of रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार एकॉन, who also signed उसके to kon सजीव Distribution, उसके own लेबल अंतर्गत interscope.
महिला गागा came to prominence as a रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार following the रिलीज of उसके डेब्यू album, The Fame ( 2008 ), जिससे थी a critical and commercial कामयाबी that topped charts around the संसार और शामिल the international number-one singles `` Just नृत्य `` and `` Poker फेस ``.
बाद embarking on the the Fame बॉल दौरे, वो followed the एल्बम साथ the Fame दानव ( 2009 ), जिससे spawned the विश्वव्यापी hit singles `` ख़राब रोमांस ``, `` टेलीफोन ``, और `` alejandro ``.
the कीर्ति राक्षस कामयाबी अनुमत her to embark on the eighteen-month long दानव Ball Tour, जिससे बाद became one of the highest-grossing concert tours of सब समय.
Her सबसे recent एल्बम, Born इस Way ( 2011 ), topped the charts of सबसे major markets और उत्पन्न अधिक अंतरराष्ट्रीय chart-topping singles, including `` Born इस रास्ता ``, `` Judas ``, और `` the किनारे of Glory ``.
Influenced by Britney Spears, दाउद बोवी, माइकल जैक्सन, Madonna, और महारानी, Lady गागा is पहचाना लिये her flamboyant, विविध and outré योगदान to the music industry through her फ़ैशन, प्रदर्शन और music वीडियो.
As of October 2011, she रै sold an अनुमानित 23 million एल्बम और 64 लाख singles worldwide और her singles हैं some of the best-selling worldwide.
Her उपलब्धियाँ शामिल पाँच Grammy Awards and 13 एमटीवी वीडियो Music पुरस्कार.
Lady गागा has consecutively appeared on बिलबोर्ड magazine 's कलाकारों of the साल ( स्कोरिंग the definitive title in 2010 ), ranked fourth in vh1 's list of 100 Greatest महिलाओं in Music, is the छठे best selling डिजिटल singles artist in US according to riaa, is regularly लगाई on सूचियाँ रचित by फोर्ब्स magazine and थी नामित one of the सबसे influential लोगों in the संसार by समय magazine.
besides her musical career, वो involves herself साथ humanitarian कल्याणकारी and lgbt सक्रियता.
McKethan स्टेडियम home of Gator baseball
a चित्र of the 1924 बेसबॉल टोली
the Florida gators baseball team represents the विश्वविद्यालयों of Florida in the खेल of बेसबॉल.
The फ्लोरिडा gators compete in Division I of the नेशनल कॉलेजिएट एथलेटिक्स संघ ( NCAA ), और the Eastern प्रभाग of the southeastern सम्मेलन ( सेक ).
वे खेल उनके घर खेल in अल्फ्रेड A. mckethan स्टेडियम on the विश्वविद्यालयों 's gainesville, फ्लोरिडा campus, और हैं currently led by head coach Kevin o'sullivan.
in the ninety-eight ऋतु history of the gators बेसबॉल कार्यक्रम, the team रै जीती बारह SEC championships and has appeared in आठ कॉलेज संसार श्रेणी tournaments.
`` electioneering '' redirects here.
लिये the radiohead सोंग, see OK कंप्यूटर.
अध्यक्षीय अभियान button लिये अब्राहम Lincoln, 1860.
The reverse side of the बटन shows a पोर्ट्रेट of his running mate Hannibal hamlin.
a राजनैतिक campaign is an organized प्रयत्न which seeks to influence the निर्णय बनाना प्रक्रम भीतर a विशिष्ट group.
in democracies, राजनैतिक campaigns प्रायः refer to चुनावी campaigns, wherein प्रतिनिधि हैं chosen or referendums are decided.
In आधुनिक राजनीती, the most ऊँची प्रोफ़ाइल राजनैतिक अभियान हैं focused on candidates for head of राज्य or सिर of सरकारी, often a अध्यक्ष or प्रधान मंत्री.
एलिज़ाबेथ cady stanton and उसके बेटी, Harriot
Elizabeth Cady stanton ( November 12, 1815 – October 26, 1902 ) was an अमरीकी सोशल activist, abolitionist, और अग्रणी फिगर of the जल्दी women 's अधिकारों गति.
उसके घोषणा of sentiments, presented at the पहला महिलाओं 's अधिकारों convention आयोजित in 1848 in Seneca Falls, नई York, is often credited with initiating the पहला व्यवस्थित women 's rights and महिलाओं 's suffrage movements in the संयुक्त States.
Before stanton narrowed her political फ़ोकस almost exclusively to महिलाओं 's अधिकारों, वो थी an active abolitionist together with उसके husband, हेनरी Brewster stanton और cousin, gerrit Smith.
Unlike अनेक of those शामिल in the महिलाओं 's अधिकारों movement, stanton addressed various issues pertaining to women beyond मतदान अधिकारों.
Her concerns included women 's parental और कस्टडी अधिकारों, property rights, नियुक्ति and आय अधिकारों, तलाक, the economic स्वास्थ्य of the परिवार, और birth कंट्रोल.
She was भी an outspoken समर्थक of the 19th-century temperance गति.
बाद the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध, Stanton 's प्रतिबद्धता to मादा suffrage caused a schism in the महिलाओं 's अधिकारों गति when वो, साथ साथ सुसान B. एंथोनी, अस्वीकृत to support ड्योढ़ी of the fourteenth और पंद्रहवीं Amendments to the संयुक्त States Constitution.
वो opposed giving added legal सुरक्षा और मतदान अधिकारों to अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी मेन जबकि महिलाओं, ब्लैक और white, were अस्वीकृत those same अधिकारों.
उसके स्थिति on इस issue, साथ with her thoughts on organized christianity और महिलाओं 's मुद्दे परे मतदान अधिकारों, led to the गठन of दो separate महिलाओं 's अधिकारों संगठन that यहूद आखिरकार rejoined, साथ Stanton as president of the संयुक्त organization, approximately twenty सालो बाद उसके ब्रेक इससे the असली महिलाओं 's suffrage गति.
stanton died in 1902 having authored both The स्त्री 's बाइबल and उसके आत्मकथा, along with many articles and pamphlets concerning female suffrage and महिलाओं 's अधिकारों.
my Fair महिला is a musical based upon George बर्नार्ड Shaw 's pygmalion and with किताब and गीत by Alan jay Lerner और music by Frederick Loewe.
the story concerns eliza doolittle, a Cockney पुष्प लड़की who takes वाक lessons इससे professor हेनरी Higgins, a phoneticist, so कि वो may pass as a well-born महिला.
the musical 's 1956 Broadway उत्पादन थी a hit, setting what थी तब the record लिये the longest चलाएं of कोई प्रमुख musical theatre उत्पादन in इतिहास.
It थी followed by a hit London उत्पादन, a लोकप्रिय फिल्मी version, और numerous revivals.
it has महरूम called `` the perfect musical ''.
deregulation is the अधिनियम or प्रक्रम of निकालना or reducing state regulations.
It is इसलिए opposite of regulation, जिससे refers to the प्रक्रम of the सरकारी regulating निश्चित क्रियाएँ.
The बोस्टन Bruins Radio संजाल is a 25-station ( 17 a.M., 8 F.M. प्लस 2 F.M. translators ) सीबीएस Radio network जिससे carries सजीव game प्रसारण of the Boston bruins.
The network 's flagship station is wbz-fm /98.5- Boston, मैसाचुसेट्स.
डेव goucher announces play-by-play.
bob beers provides रंग commentary.
इस आलेख is परिचय the short स्टोरी.
लिये the poem by Sara Teasdale, देखिए There Will आइये Soft rains.
`` There होगा आइये Soft rains '' is a short story by science fiction लेखक Ray bradbury which was पहला प्रकाशित in the May 6, 1950 issue of Collier 's.
बाद that वही साल the स्टोरी was included in bradbury 's The Martian Chronicles ( 1950 ).
With over 1.2 billion लोगों, हान चाइनीज is the largest जातीय समूह in the world.
pashtun people of the pashtunistan प्रदेश, जिससे sits in an क्षेत्रफल between दक्षिण of the Hindu Kush in अफगानिस्तान and the Indus River in पाकिस्तानी.
वे क्रमांक around 50 लाख.
The korowai लोगों of पापुआ numbered बस around 3,000 लोगों, और were uncontacted until the 1970s.
नस्ल or ethnic समूह is a socially defined category आधारित on आम culture or राष्ट्रीयता.
नस्ल can, लकिन करता not have to, include आम ancestry, रूप, cuisine, ड्रेसिंग स्टाइल, heritage, history, भाषा or dialect, धर्म, प्रतीकों, परंपराओं, or अन्य cultural फ़ैक्टर.
जातीय पहचान is constantly reinforced through common characteristics which नियत the समूह apart from other groups.
The 19.9 MW gemasolar solar संयंत्र in Spain features 15 hours of storage and can supply शक्ति 24 hours a day.
Solar उर्जा, रौशन light और heat from the sun, रै been harnessed by इंसानो चूंकि ancient टाइम्स using a दायरा of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar उर्जा technologies include solar हीटिंग, solar photovoltaics, solar थर्मल विद्युत, सौर वास्तुकला and artificial photosynthesis, जिससे can मेक considerable योगदान to solving some of the सबसे तात्कालिक उर्जा समस्याएं the world अभी चेहरों.
सौर technologies हैं broadly characterized as either passive सौर or active सौर depending on the रास्ता वे capture, बदलें और वितरित सौर energy.
क्रियाशील सौर तकनीकों शामिल the use of photovoltaic panels और solar thermal collectors to दोहन the energy.
Passive सौर तकनीकों शामिल orienting a भवन to the Sun, selecting सामग्री साथ favorable thermal द्रव्यमान or light dispersing गुण, और डिजाइनिंग spaces that naturally circulate एयर.
in 2011, the International उर्जा एजेंसी कहा कि `` the विकास of सस्ती, inexhaustible और साफ सौर energy technologies will have विशाल longer-term benefits.
it will बढ़ाएँ countries’ उर्जा सुरक्षा through reliance on an indigenous, inexhaustible and ज़्यादातर import-independent संसाधन, enhance स्थिरता, reduce प्रदूषण, निम्नतर the लागत of mitigating जलवायु बदलें, and रखना fossil ईंधन कीमतें निम्नतर than वरना.
ये लाभ हैं global.
hence the अतिरिक्त costs of the incentives लिये जल्दी deployment should be माना सीखना investments ; वे जरूर be बुद्धिमानी spent and need to be widely shared ''.
The classical लैटिन वर्णमाला or Roman alphabet evolved इससे a western किस्में of the यूनानी वर्णमाला पुकारा the Cumaean वर्णमाला, जिससे थी अपनाया और परिवर्धित by the Etruscans who ruled जल्दी Rome.
the etruscan वर्णमाला थी in फेरे अपनाया और further परिवर्धित by the प्राचीन romans to लिखें the लैटिन भाषा.
During the मध्य Ages, the Latin वर्णमाला was adapted to रोमांस भाषाएं, सीधा descendants of लैटिन, as well as to Celtic, germanic, बाल्टिक, and some Slavic भाषाएं.
With the age of उपनिवेशवाद और ईसाई evangelism, the लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट थी spread overseas, और लागू to indigenous American, ऑस्ट्रेलियाई, Austronesian, austroasiatic, और अफ़्रीकी भाषाएं.
अधिक recently, linguists have भी tended to prefer the लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट or the अंतरराष्ट्रीय ध्वन्यात्मक वर्णमाला ( itself largely आधारित on लैटिन script ) जब transcribing or creating लिखा मानकों for non-european languages, such as the अफ़्रीकी reference वर्णमाला.
the term लैटिन वर्णमाला may refer to either the alphabet प्रयुक्त to write लैटिन ( as वर्णित in this article ), or other alphabets आधारित on the Latin स्क्रिप्ट, जिससे is the basic नियत of अक्षर common to the विभिन्न alphabets descended इससे the classical लैटिन एक, ऐसे as the English वर्णमाला.
ये latin-derived alphabets may discard letters, like the rotokas वर्णमाला, or add new letters, जैसे the डैनिश और Norwegian alphabet.
अक्षर shapes have बदला over the सदियां, including the creation लिये मध्यकालीन लैटिन of lower मामला फ़ॉर्म which किया not exist in the शास्त्रीय काल.
the assassination of संयुक्त राज्य President अब्राहम Lincoln took place on शुभ शुक्रवार, April 14, 1865, as the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध was drawing to a close.
the हत्या occurred पाँच दिनों after the कमांडर of the Confederate फौज of उत्तरी Virginia, सामान्य रॉबर्ट E. Lee, surrendered to लेफ्टिनेंट सामान्य Ulysses S. ग्रान्ट और the संघ फौज of the Potomac.
lincoln थी the पहला American president to be assassinated, हालांकि an unsuccessful attempt had महरूम made on एंड्रयू जैक्सन 30 सालो पहले in 1835.
the assassination थी नियोजित and carried out by the well-known stage actor जॉन wilkes बूथ, as भाग of a larger षड्यंत्र in a bid to revive the Confederate कारण.
बूथ 's co-conspirators यहूद लुईस Powell and दाउद Herold, who यहूद आबंटित to मार Secretary of राज्य विलियम H. seward, and जार्ज atzerodt who थी to मार Vice अध्यक्ष Andrew Johnson.
By simultaneously eliminating the शीर्ष three लोगों in the प्रशासन, Booth and his co-conspirators hoped to sever the continuity of the United राज्य government.
Lincoln थी शॉट जबकि watching the play Our American cousin साथ his wife मरियम टॉड lincoln at Ford 's Theatre in वॉशिंगटन, d.C. on the रात्रि of April 14, 1865.
He died early the अगला morning.
the बाकी of the conspirators ' plot विफल ; पावेल तभी managed to wound seward, जबकि atzerodt, जॉनसन 's would-be हत्यारे, खोया उसके nerve और fled वॉशिंगटन.
add-on might mean:
plug-in ( computing ), a piece of software जिससे enhances another तन्त्र अनुप्रयोग and usually can नहीं be चलाएं independently
ब्राउजर एक्सटेंशन, जिससे modifies the इंटरफ़ेस and/or बर्ताव of web browsers
add-on ( मोज़िला ), a टुकड़ा of software that enhances और customizes mozilla-based अनुप्रयोग
add-ons लिये फायरफॉक्स ( addons.mozilla.org ), the आधिकारिक मोज़िला Foundation वेब site which serves as a repository of add-ons लिये mozilla-based applications
परिधीय, an वैकल्पिक computer hardware component that significantly supplements or enhances the कार्यक्षमता of the original ईकाई
वीडियो game accessory, a टुकड़ा of हार्डवेयर प्रयुक्त in संयोजन साथ a वीडियो खेल कंसोल for playing वीडियो games
क्लबों level seating is a special section of seating in modern खेल stadiums.
the क्लबों Level is usually located towards the मध्य of the stage of seating sections, above the lower डेक but below the अपर deck.
They are प्रायः right अगला to the Luxury Boxes, either right ऊपर, सही नीचे, or sandwiched between दो levels of लक्ज़री Boxes.
Club स्तर seating is माना as higher क्लास than बैठे anywhere else in the एरिना, लकिन lower क्लास compared to the लक्ज़री बाक्स.
Unlike the लक्ज़री बाक्स, most क्लबों levels do नहीं रैप entirely around the एरिना.
Some क्लबों levels stop at a certain point, giving रास्ता to an expansion of the मेज़ानाइन, while others दे रास्ता to lower क्लास Luxury बाक्स ( ऐसे as `` पार्टी suites '' ).
A notable एक्सेप्शन to इस is अमीरात Stadium in London, जिससे has a पूरा टियर of club seating.
क्लबों स्तर allow fans multiple levels of entertainment.
Club स्तर seating is खोलें to the तत्व, as opposed to the entirely enclosed लक्ज़री boxes, which देता अधिक of an बाहरी छाप at roofless और open-roof stadiums और arenas.
क्लबों स्तर seating is normally bought on a अनुबंध आधार to allow for maximum लाभ on the part of the स्टेडियम.
the Club Level provides प्रशंसक with special access to an अंदर भाग of the एरिना exclusive to प्रशंसक साथ खास टिकटें.
ये क्षेत्रों हैं एयर conditioned and allow access to special restaurants, merchandise स्टैंड, और लाउंज areas of the स्टेडियम कि हैं not वरना उपलब्धियाँ.
Concession स्टैंड और विक्रेता on the Club स्तर भी often offer अलग menus than in अन्य stands to give अधिक of a special feel to the क्लबों.
ये क्षेत्रों are closed बंद to the rest of the stadium, और वे प्रायः can only be accessed through the विशेष, private क्लबों entrances.
sophia Loren ( ; born सोफिया villani scicolone ; 20 September 1934 ) is an Italian actress.
लोरेन is widely पहचाना as इटली 's सबसे प्रसिद्ध और सम्मानित अभिनेत्री.
वो थी the पहला actress of the talkie era to जीत an अकादमी पुरस्कार for a non-english-speaking प्रदर्शन, for her portrayal of Cesira in vittorio De सिका 's दो महिलाओं.
Her other पुरस्कार शामिल a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, five खास Golden Globes, a bafta पुरस्कार और a Laurel पुरस्कार.
In 1995 वो received the सेसिल B. DeMille पुरस्कार लिये lifetime उपलब्धियाँ, एक of अनेक ऐसे पुरस्कार.
उसके films शामिल : houseboat ( 1958 ), El सीआईडी ( 1961 ), Yesterday, Today और Tomorrow ( 1963 ), विवाह Italian-Style ( 1964 ), और A Special Day ( 1977 ).
in बाद सालो she has appeared in अमरीकी blockbusters ऐसे as grumpier बूढ़ा मेन ( 1995 ), and Nine ( 2009 ).
in 1994 she स्ट्रक्चर in रॉबर्ट altman 's prêt-à-porter, जिससे earned उसके a सुनहरी Globe nomination the वही साल.
She रै also achieved नाजुक and वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी in tv movies ऐसे as हिम्मत ( 1986 ).
मौतों लिये self-inflicted injuries प्रति 100,000 निवासियों in 2004.
Incidence of आत्महत्या is underreported due to both religious और सोशल pressures, और संभवतः completely unreported in कुछ areas.
nevertheless, इससे reported मामले, निश्चित रुझान हैं apparent.
Since the आंकड़ा is skewed, comparing आत्महत्या दरों between nations is statistically unsound.
the रुझान themselves हैं नहीं the cause, but may be indicative of a root कारण.
The ओपरा विनफ्रे नेतृत्व अकादमी लिये Girls - दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी is a मादा boarding स्कूल संस्थापित in जनवरी 2007 and स्तिथ in Henley on klip near meyerton, दक्षिण of Johannesburg, South अफ़्रीकी.
The अकादमी थी संस्थापित by Oprah Winfrey with the goal of providing educational और leadership अवसर for academically gifted girls इससे impoverished backgrounds.
ओपरा Winfrey Leadership Academy लिये लड़कियों
digicel is a मोबाईल phone संजाल प्रदाता operating in 31 बाज़ार आरपार the Caribbean, सेंट्रल अमेरिका, और महासागरीय regions.
the company is स्वामित्व by Irishman डेनिस o'brien, is incorporated in Bermuda, and आधारित in Jamaica.
It रै परिचय 13 million बेतार users.
As of 2012, digicel 's बाज़ार comprise : Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, अरूबा, बारबाडोस, बरमूडा, bonaire, the British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, Curacao, Dominica, el साल्वाडोर, Fiji, French guiana, हरा, guadeloupe, गुयाना, Haiti, जमैका, Martinique, प्रकृति, Panama, पापुआ नई Guinea, Samoa, Saint किट्स और नेविस, संत Lucia, संत विंसेंट और the grenadines, Suriname, Tonga, Trinidad & Tobago, turks और caicos, and Vanuatu.
This is a सूची of records of the FIFA संसार कप और इसके योग्यता मिलान.
हॉस्पिटल Emergency कोड हैं प्रयुक्त in hospitals विश्वव्यापी to चेतावनी स्टाफ to various emergencies.
the use of कोड is intended to convey अनिवार्य information जल्दी और साथ minimal गलतफहमी to staff, जबकि preventing stress और दहशत among विज़िटर to the hospital.
These कोड may be posted on placards throughout the hospital, or printed on कर्मचारी पहचान badges for ready reference.
Back of a हॉस्पिटल id बैज प्रर्दशित विपत्ति कोड.
Hospital आपात codes may denote different events at अलग hospitals, सहित nearby ones.
क्युकी many physicians कार्य at अधिक than एक सुविधा, इस may सीसे to confusion in emergencies, so uniform प्रणालियों have महरूम प्रस्तावित.
the रूट of the eifel जलसेतु, साथ इसके औसत ढलान.
The eifel Aqueduct was one of the longest aqueducts of the रोमन साम्राज्य.
The जलसेतु, constructed in ad 80, carried जल some from the hilly Eifel region of what is अभी Germany to the ancient city of Colonia claudia आरा Agrippinensium ( present-day Cologne ).
if the auxiliary spurs to additional स्रोतों are included, the length थी.
the construction थी almost entirely नीचे ground, and the प्रवाह of the जल was produced entirely by गम्भीरता.
A few पुलों, सहित एक up to in length, यहूद needed to pass over घाटियों.
Unlike some of the अन्य प्रसिद्ध रोमन aqueducts, the eifel जलसेतु थी specifically designed to minimize the above-ground portion to protect it इससे क्षति and जमने.
In chemistry, a disulfide बंध ( Br.E. disulphide बंध ) is a covalent bond, usually derived by the coupling of दो thiol groups.
The linkage is also पुकारा an SS-bond or disulfide सेतु.
the overall कनेक्टिविटी is therefore r-s-s-r.
The terminology is widely used in biochemistry.
in औपचारिक terms, the कनेक्शन is a persulfide, in analogy to its congener, परऑक्साइड ( r-o-o-r ), लकिन इस शब्दावली is अस्पष्ट and is no longer used ( मगर in reference to r-s-s-h or H-S-S-H यौगिकों ).
औपचारिक चित्रण of disulfide बंध गठन as an ऑक्सीकरण.
Westminster Abbey is प्रयुक्त लिये the राजतिलक of British monarchs
धर्म in the संयुक्त किंगडम and in the countries कि preceded it, रै महरूम dominated, लिये over 1,400 years, by various फ़ॉर्म of christianity.
according to कुछ सर्वेक्षण, a majority of citizens स्टिल पहचानो साथ christianity, हालांकि नियमित गिरिजाघर उपस्थिति has गिरे dramatically चूंकि the middle of the 20th century, and आव्रजन और जनसांख्यिकी बदलें have contributed to the विकास of अन्य faiths.
Religious संबद्धों of uk citizens हैं recorded by नियमित surveys, the चार major ones होने the uk Census, the Labour Force सर्वेक्षण, the British Social attitudes सर्वेक्षण और the European सोशल सर्वेक्षण.
according to the 2001 UK census, Christianity is the प्रमुख धर्म, followed by Islam, हिंदुत्व, Sikhism, Judaism and Buddhism in शर्तें of क्रमांक of adherents.
This, और the relatively large क्रमांक of individuals साथ नाममात्र or no religious संबद्धों रै led commentators to variously describe the United Kingdom as a multi-faith, secularised, or post-christian society.
The संयुक्त Kingdom was formed by the संघ of previously स्वतंत्र देशों from 1707, और नतीजतन most of the largest धार्मिक groups do नहीं have UK-wide organisational structures.
While कुछ समूह have पृथक structures लिये the व्यक्तिगत देशों of the संयुक्त किंगडम, अन्य may have a सिंगल structure covering England and वेल्स or ग्रेट Britain.
Similarly, due to the अपेक्षाकृत हाल creation of Northern आयरलैंड in 1921, सबसे प्रमुख धार्मिक groups in उत्तरी आयरलैंड are organised on an all-ireland आधार.
the 1967 न्यूर्क दंगे यहूद a प्रमुख civil disturbance that occurred in the city of Newark, नई जर्सी between जुलाई 12 and जुलाई 17, 1967.
the छह दिनों of rioting, looting, and विनाश बाएँ 26 dead और सैंकड़ों घायल.
in संयुक्त राज्य college athletics, redshirt is a विलंब or बर्खास्तगी of an खिलाड़ी 's भागीदारी in अनुक्रम to lengthen his or her period of eligibility.
Typically, a छात्र 's एथलेटिक पात्रता in a दिए sport is four सीज़न, a क्रमांक निकला from the four सालो of academic classes that are सामान्यतः जरूरी to obtain a स्नातक 's degree at an American college or university.
However, a छात्र खिलाड़ी may be offered the opportunity to redshirt लिये up to two सालो, जिससे allows the athlete to spread those four सालो of eligibility over five, or sometimes छह सालो.
in a redshirt साल, a student खिलाड़ी may attend वर्ग at the कॉलेज or university, अभ्यास साथ an athletic टोली, और dress लिये खेल लकिन he or वो may not compete during the game.
using इस mechanism, a छात्र खिलाड़ी रै up to पाँच academic years to use the चार years of eligibility, यूँ becoming a fifth-year senior.
The पद is प्रयुक्त as a verb, noun, and adjective.
लिये example, a कोच may choose to redshirt a खिलाड़ी जो is then referred to as a redshirt freshman or बस a redshirt.
The विपरीत of this is a `` true freshman. ''
संसार War i ( WWI ) थी a वैश्विक युद्ध centred in यूरोपीय कि began on 28 July 1914 और lasted जबतक 11 November 1918.
it was predominantly called the संसार युद्ध or the ग्रेट युद्ध इससे इसके occurrence जबतक the start of World युद्ध ii in 1939, and the First World युद्ध or World युद्ध I thereafter.
it शामिल all the संसार 's ग्रेट शक्तियां, जिससे यहूद समवेत in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United किंगडम, फ़्रांस और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल Powers ( originally the ट्रिपल गठबंधन of जर्मनी, austria-hungary और इटली ; लकिन, as austria–hungary था लिया the अप्रिय विरूद्ध the agreement, इटली did नहीं enter into the war ).
ये alliances यहूद दोनो reorganised and विस्तारित as अधिक राष्ट्र entered the युद्ध : इटली, जापानी और the संयुक्त States joined the allies, and the उस्मानी साम्राज्य और Bulgaria the सेंट्रल शक्तियां.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military कर्मियों, सहित 60 लाख europeans, यहूद mobilised in one of the largest युद्धों in history.
अधिक than 9 लाख combatants यहूद killed, largely because of technological advancements कि led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without सम्बन्धित improvements in सुरक्षा or गतिशीलता.
it थी the fifth- deadliest विरोध in world history, subsequently paving the way लिये विभिन्न political परिवर्तन, such as revolutions in many of the राष्ट्र involved.
One of the long-term कल्याणकारी of the war थी the पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in the विदेशी policies of the ग्रेट powers of यूरोपीय.
More तत्काल, the हत्या of archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया, the वारिस to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी Gavrilo princip in Sarajevo triggered a राजनयिक संकट जब austria-hungary subsequently वितरित an ultimatum to the किंगडम of सर्बिया.
अनेक alliances formed over the पिछला दशकों यहूद invoked.
Within weeks, the प्रमुख शक्तियां were at युद्ध and, via उनके colonies, the विरोध जल्द स्प्रेड around the world.
on 28 जुलाई, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the युद्ध as तैयारी लिये the आक्रमण of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the germans invaded neutral Belgium और Luxembourg on the way to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli for ब्रिटेन 's declaration of युद्ध विरूद्ध Germany.
After the जर्मनी कूच on पेरिस was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the marne —the Western Front settled into a स्थिर बैटल of attrition with a trench लकीर that changed छोटी जबतक 1917.
on the Eastern सामने, the Russian फौज थी successful विरूद्ध the Austro-Hungarians, but थी stopped in इसके invasion of ईस्ट prussia by the Germans.
in November the Ottoman Empire joined the युद्ध, खोलने up fronts in the Caucasus, मेसोपोटामिया and the Sinai.
Italy और बुल्गारिया गई to war in 1915 and रोमानिया in 1916.
in Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in कूच 1917 and a subsequent क्रान्ति in November brought the russians to शर्तें साथ the Central Powers.
बाद a 1918 जर्मनी offensive साथ the western सामने, the Allies drove back the germans in a श्रेणी of successful offensives और American शक्तियां began प्रवेश the trenches.
Germany, जिससे had its अपना trouble साथ क्रांतिकारियों, सहमत to an armistice on 11 नवम्बर 1918.
the युद्ध ended in विजय लिये the allies.
Events on the घर fronts यहूद as tumultuous as on the बैटल fronts, as the भागीदार tried to mobilize उनके manpower and economic संसाधन to लड़ो a कुल war.
By the समाप्त of the war, चार major इम्पीरियल powers—the German, रूसी, austro-hungarian and उस्मानी empires—ceased to exist.
the successor राज्य of the former two खोया a great amount of territory, जबकि the latter दो यहूद dismantled entirely.
the map of central यूरोपीय थी redrawn into अनेक smaller states.
The League of राष्ट्र थी formed in the आशा of preventing another ऐसे conflict.
The यूरोपीय राष्ट्रवाद शाखित by the युद्ध and the breakup of empires, the परखना of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और problems with the सन्धि of Versailles हैं सहमत to be कारकों contributing to World युद्ध ii.
Map of countries that घोषित themselves to be socialist states अंतर्गत the Marxist–Leninist or Maoist definition - कि is to कह, `` कम्युनिस्ट states '' - between 1979 and 1983.
This period चिह्नित the greatest territorial extent of Communist states.
A communist राज्य is a राज्य where the अर्थात् of उत्पादन हैं collectively owned by the समाज.
it has a form of सरकारी characterized by single-party नियम or dominant-party rule of a communist पार्टी ( referred as तानाशाही of the proletariat by इसके proponents ) and a professed निष्ठा to a leninist or marxist–leninist विचारधारा as the guiding principle of the state.
Technically, `` communist state '' is a contradictio in terminis as a कम्युनिस्ट society as पारिभाषित by दोनो माक्र्सवादी और anarcho-communists is in principle stateless.
इससे this परिप्रेक्ष्य, the पद Marxist-Leninist state is more appropriate.
Historically, a `` communist राज्य '' referred to a प्रणाली where पब्लिक ownership of all or most means of उत्पादन by the कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी -run राज्य is deemed जरुरी to further the रूचि of the working क्लास ; today, a कम्युनिस्ट राज्य can also, लिये instance, refer to contemporary चीन और Vietnam, where a Communist Party-run राज्य exists alongside a mixed अर्थव्यवस्था.
According to marxist–leninists, the राज्य is a tool in the hands of the सत्ताधारी class, which in a socialist समाज is the working क्लास, so a समाजवादी राज्य is, according to leninists, a राज्य of the working क्लास.
in practice, कम्युनिस्ट states do नहीं actually refer to themselves as ऐसे.
वे do इस नहीं to भेस the fact that the सत्ताधारी पार्टी is कम्युनिस्ट, but rather क्युकी वे do not consider themselves to be a communist society at उपस्थित.
बजाय, they constitutionally पहचानो themselves as समाजवादी states or workers ' states.
The primary लक्ष्य of these राज्य, जिससे also explains उनके आधिकारिक नाम, is to guide their संबंधित countries in the प्रक्रम of भवन समाजवादी, ultimately leading to communism.
कम्युनिस्ट states may have अनेक विधिक राजनैतिक पार्टियों, लकिन the कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी is प्रायः granted a special or dominant भूमिका in सरकारी, प्रायः by statute or under the constitution.
नतीजतन, the institutions of the state and of the communist party become intimately entwined, such as in the विकास of समानांतर institutions.
In the 20th सदी, most communist states adopted planned economies.
however, there यहूद exceptions : the सोवियत Union during the 1920s और late 1980s और Yugoslavia बाद संसार युद्ध ii अनुमत सीमित markets and a उपाधि of कार्यकर्ता self-management, जबकि China, वियतनाम और लाओस introduced far-reaching market reforms after the 1980s.
in the 21st century, चीन और वियतनाम have allowed a मिश्रित economy to develop.
the आधारभूत अवधारणाओं of communist states often diverge from the original socio-economic ideologies from which वे develop.
As a परिणाम, अनेक adherents of ये विचारधाराओं often oppose the political systems commonly associated साथ these राज्य.
लिये उदाहरण, dissenting communists ऐसे as Trotskyists यहूद often opposed to the कम्युनिस्ट राज्य of the 20th सदी, claiming either कि वे had nothing to do with `` real '' साम्यवादी or कि the ideology of ऐसे राज्य था reached a पाइंट of अटल corruption.
माइकल Fred Phelps II ( born June 30, 1985 ) is a रिटायर्ड अमरीकी तैराक और the most decorated Olympian of सब समय, with a total of 22 medals.
Phelps also holds the all-time records लिये ओलम्पिक gold medals ( 18, दोगुना the second उच्चतम रिकार्ड holders ), ओलम्पिक gold medals in individual कार्यक्रम ( 11 ), and Olympic medals in individual कार्यक्रम for a male ( 13 ).
in जीतना eight सुनहरा medals at the 2008 Beijing खेल, फेल्प्स took the रिकार्ड लिये the most first-place finishes at any सिंगल ओलम्पिक खेल.
Five of those victories यहूद in individual कार्यक्रम, tying the सिंगल खेल रिकार्ड.
in the 2012 गर्मियाँ Olympics in London, फेल्प्स won चार golds and two चांदी medals, बनाना him the most successful athlete of the खेल for the third ओलंपिक in a पंक्ति.
फेल्प्स is the long course world recordholder in the 100-meter तितली, 200-meter butterfly और 400-meter व्यक्तिगत medley as खूब as the पूर्व long course world recordholder in the 200-meter freestyle और 200-meter व्यक्तिगत medley.
He has जीती a कुल of 71 medals in major अंतरराष्ट्रीय long-course प्रतियोगिता, 57 सुनहरा, 11 चांदी, and three bronze spanning the ओलंपिक, the World, and the पण प्रशांत championships.
फेल्प्स 's अंतरराष्ट्रीय titles and record-breaking प्रदर्शन have earned उसे the संसार Swimmer of the साल पुरस्कार seven times and अमरीकी Swimmer of the साल Award नौ टाइम्स as well as the फिना तैराक of the Year Award in 2012.
उसके unprecedented ओलम्पिक success in 2008 अर्जित Phelps खेल Illustrated magazine 's sportsman of the साल पुरस्कार.
After the 2008 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक, Phelps प्रारंभ the माइकल Phelps न्यास, जिससे focuses on growing the sport of तैराकी and promoting healthier lifestyles.
he expects to do further कार्य with उसके न्यास बाद the 2012 ओलंपिक, जिससे he रै said होगा be उसके पिछला.
लेनोवो समूह सीमित ( ) is a Chinese multinational कंप्यूटर hardware and electronics company with इसके मुख्यालय in Beijing, China और Morrisville, उत्तर Carolina और its registered दफ्तर in हांग Kong, China.
Its products शामिल personal कंप्यूटर, टैब्लेट computers, मोबाईल फोन, workstations, servers, electronic storage डिवाइस, it management software and smart televisions.
लेनोवो is the संसार 's second-largest PC विक्रेता by 2012 ईकाई बिक्री.
it markets the थिंकपैड लकीर of कोपी कंप्यूटर and the thinkcentre लकीर of desktops.
Lenovo रै operations in अधिक than 60 countries और बिकता its products in around 160 देशों.
लेनोवो was founded in Beijing in 1984 and incorporated in हांग Kong in 1988 अंतर्गत its पिछला name, Legend.
लेनोवो is सूचीबद्ध on the हांग काँग भण्डार एक्सचेंज और is a constituent of the हैंग सेंग China-Affiliated Corporations Index.
स्लग is a common नाम for an apparently shell-less terrestrial gastropod mollusk.
the शब्द `` स्लग '' is भी प्रायः प्रयुक्त as भाग of the common name of any gastropod mollusc that रै no shell, has a बहुत घटाया शेल, or रै only a small internal शेल.
( This is in contrast to the common नाम `` snail ``, which is लागू to gastropods that have a नतीजे shell that is large पर्याप्त कि the नरम भाग of the animal can retract fully into it. )
slugs मौजूद on land और in the समुद्र, और there is even एक genus of freshwater slugs, acochlidium.
The unadorned शब्द `` slug '' is however लागू primarily to जमीन slugs, whereas slugs इससे the समुद्र or इससे freshwater हैं प्रायः referred to as `` समुद्र slugs `` और `` freshwater slugs ''.
जमीन gastropods साथ a शेल कि is not quite vestigial, लकिन is too छोटी to retract into ( जैसे अनेक in the परिवार urocyclidae ), are ज्ञात as semislugs.
the various taxonomic families of slugs form part of अनेक काफी different विकासवादी lineages which also शामिल घोंघे.
यूँ, लिये उदाहरण, the विभिन्न families of land slugs हैं नहीं very closely सम्बन्धित to एक another, despite a सतही समानता in the overall body रूप.
the shell-less कंडीशन has arisen many टाइम्स independently during the विकासवादी पास्ट, और यूँ the श्रेणी `` स्लग '' is emphatically a polyphyletic एक.
Slugs, जैसे all other gastropods, undergo torsion ( a 180° twisting of the आतंरिक अंगों ) दौरान development.
Internally, स्लग anatomy clearly shows the प्रभाव of इस rotation, लकिन externally the लाशें of land slugs appear to be more or less symmetrical, except लिये the positioning of the pneumostome, which is on एक पक्ष of the एनिमल, सामान्यतः the right हाथ side.
The नरम, slimy bodies of slugs हैं prone to desiccation, so land-living slugs हैं confined to moist environments और must रिट्रीट to damp छुपाना places when the weather is dry.
the subsequent सूचना in इस article applies to land slugs.
is a लैटिन word that means `` यूँ '' or, in लिखने, `` it थी thus in the सोर्स material ''.
Sic may also refer to:
Sic, cluj, a कम्यून in रोमानिया
sic, the क्षेत्रीय code लिये Sicily
sic ( noise कलाकार ), styled as [ sic ], stage नाम of जेनिफर मॉरिस, a Canadian रव कलाकार
sic ( band ) is a modern Hardcore/Thrash metal बैंड from torshavn, the capital of the फरो आइलैंड्स
`` ( sic ) '', a सोंग by American band Slipknot on the एल्बम slipknot
SIC, the आरंभिक of मार्को simoncelli.
SIC as an एक्रोनिम may स्टैंड for:
sic, Silicon कार्बाइड, a semiconducting material, also प्रयुक्त to make metalworking tools
SIC ( cyclecar ) ( Società इटालियाना cyclecars )
मानक औद्योगिक वर्गीकरण, a 20th-century U.S. प्रणाली लिये classifying उद्योग
अंतरराष्ट्रीय Standard औद्योगिक वर्गीकरण a un प्रणाली for आर्थिक क्रियाएँ
शेटलैंड आइलैंड्स Council
the स्विस interbank clearing system
San isidro क्लबों, an अर्जेंटाइन rugby संघ क्लबों
खड़ा निर्वचन Committee, a कमेटी समर्पित to the interpretation of international हिसाब मानकों IFRS
Schwarz सूचना मानदंड in the field of आंकडे
second-in-command in the field of विमानन
Sistema interconectado Central शक्ति grid in चिली
sociedade independente de Comunicação ( sic ), a टेलीविज़न चैनल in पुर्तगाल
Sea आइल City, नई जर्सी, a तटीय कस्बा in the United राज्य
segmented पूर्णांक काउंटर mode, a mode of आपरेशन in क्रिप्टोग्राफी
sepang अंतरराष्ट्रीय सर्किट, a high-end racetrack that होस्ट the Malaysian round of Formula 1
Shanghai International सर्किट, a motor racing स्थान in शंघाई, चीन
सरलीकृत निर्देशात्मक computer, a hypothetical computer प्रयुक्त in प्रणालियों प्रोग्रामिंग
sic ( Sons idées couleurs ), an early twentieth-century आर्ट पत्रिका उत्पादित by फ्रेंच लेखक पियरे albert-birot
Southeastern Illinois कॉलेज, a दो year जूनियर कॉलेज in harrisburg, इलिनोइस, संयुक्त States
Specific inductive क्षमता, abbreviated to SIC, जिससे is more commonly ज्ञात as the सापेक्ष विद्युतशीलता or the dielectric constant
st ignatius ' कॉलेज, riverview, a जेसुइट स्कूल in सिडनी, ऑस्ट्रेलिया
इम्पीरियल मानक of Napoleon i
नेपोलियन बोनापार्ट (, ; 15 अगस्त 1769 – 5 may 1821 ) थी a French सैन्य और political नेता who रोज़ to prominence दौरान the latter stages of the फ्रेंच Revolution और इसके संबद्ध wars in यूरोपीय.
As नेपोलियन i, he थी सम्राट of the French इससे 1804 to 1815.
His legal सुधार, the Napoleonic कोड, रै been a major influence on अनेक सिविल विधि jurisdictions worldwide, लकिन he is बेहतरीन remembered लिये उसके भूमिका in the युद्धों led against फ़्रांस by a श्रेणी of coalitions, the so-called napoleonic Wars.
He स्थापित आधिपत्य over most of महाद्वीपीय यूरोपीय और sought to स्प्रेड the आदर्शों of the French क्रान्ति, जबकि consolidating an इम्पीरियल monarchy जिससे restored पहलुओं of the deposed ancien Régime.
due to his success in ये wars, प्रायः विरूद्ध numerically superior दुश्मनों, he is generally regarded as एक of the महानतम सैन्य कमांडरों of सब समय, और his campaigns are पढ़ाई at सैन्य academies विश्वव्यापी.
नेपोलियन थी born at ajaccio in corsica in a family of प्रतिष्ठित इतालवी ancestry जिससे था settled corsica in the 16th सदी.
He प्रशिक्षित as an artillery officer in mainland फ़्रांस.
he rose to prominence under the French पहला गणतंत्र और led successful अभियान against the पहला and Second coalitions arrayed against France.
He led a successful आक्रमण of the इतालवी peninsula.
in 1799, he staged a तख्तापलट d'état and संस्थापित himself as पहला Consul ; पाँच years बाद the फ्रेंच सीनेट proclaimed him emperor, following a plebiscite in his पक्ष.
In the पहला दशक of the 19th सदी, the फ्रेंच साम्राज्य अंतर्गत नेपोलियन engaged in a श्रेणी of conflicts—the napoleonic युद्धों —that शामिल प्रत्येक major यूरोपीय शक्ति.
After a streak of victories, France secured a प्रबल स्थिति in continental Europe, और नेपोलियन maintained the फ्रेंच sphere of influence through the गठन of extensive alliances और the नियुक्ति of friends and family members to नियम अन्य यूरोपीय देशों as फ्रेंच क्लाएंट राज्य.
The Peninsular युद्ध और 1812 फ्रेंच invasion of रूस marked turning अंक in Napoleon 's सौभाग्य.
उसके Grande Armée थी badly damaged in the campaign और never fully बरामद.
in 1813, the छठे Coalition पराजित उसके forces at लिपजिग ; the following साल the गठबन्धन invaded France, मजबूर Napoleon to abdicate और exiled उसे to the island of एल्बा.
Less than a साल later, he escaped Elba और लौटे to शक्ति, लकिन थी पराजित at the बैटल of वाटरलू in जून 1815.
Napoleon spent the last छह years of उसके life in confinement by the अंग्रेजों on the द्वीप of संत हेलेना.
an autopsy concluded he died of पेट कर्कट, लकिन वहीँ रै महरूम some debate परिचय the cause of उसके मौत, as कुछ scholars have speculated that he was a शिकार of आर्सेनिक विषाक्तता.
This is a chronological लिस्टिंग of the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटरों इससे पेन्सिलवेनिया.
संयुक्त States सीनेटरों are popularly elected, लिये a six-year term, शुरूआत जनवरी 3.
चुनावों हैं आयोजित the पहला मंगलवार बाद नवम्बर 1.
Before 1914, वे यहूद chosen by the पेन्सिलवेनिया General सभा, और before 1935, their terms began कूच 4.
The South Africa नेशनल rugby union team ( known as the springboks ) represents दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी in रग्बी union.
वे compete in the annual Rugby चैंपियनशिप, साथ साथ southern-hemisphere counterparts अर्जेंटीना, Australia और New Zealand.
वे have जीती this चैंपियनशिप on तीन occasions in सोलह years.
They हैं currently क्रमित second in the संसार by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Rugby फलक, और यहूद नामित 2008 World टोली of the Year at the Laureus World Sports पुरस्कार.
Although South Africa was इंस्ट्रूमेंटल in the सृष्टि of the Rugby World कप प्रतियोगिता, the springboks did नहीं compete in the पहला दो संसार cups in 1987 और 1991 because of anti-apartheid sporting boycotts of दक्षिण Africa.
The टोली made its World कप डेब्यू in 1995, जब the newly लोकतांत्रिक दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी hosted the tournament.
The springboks तब पराजित the सब अश्वेतों 15–12 in the फाइनल, जिससे is now remembered as one of the महानतम पल in दक्षिण Africa 's sporting इतिहास, and a watershed moment in the post-apartheid nation-building प्रक्रम.
South अफ़्रीकी regained उनके शीर्षक as champions 12 years बाद, जब they defeated इंग्लैण्ड 15–6 in the 2007 फाइनल.
as a परिणाम of the 2007 World Cup टूर्नामेंट the Springboks यहूद प्रचारित to first प्लेस in the आईआरबी World rankings, a स्थिति they आयोजित जबतक जुलाई the following year जब नई जीलैंड regained the शीर्ष स्पॉट.
the springboks play in ग्रीन and सुनहरा jerseys, and their प्रतीक हैं the springbok and the protea.
the side रै been playing अंतरराष्ट्रीय rugby since 1891, जब a अंग्रेजों Isles पक्ष toured the स्वदेश, playing दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी in उनके first Test on 30 जुलाई.
दक्षिण Africa was coached by Jake White, who led the Boks to the 2007 संसार कप शीर्षक, announcing उसके इस्तीफा effectively इससे the end of 2007.
उसके replacement 's ( पीटर de villiers ) अनुबंध expired in 2011, following a 11–9 शिकस्त to ऑस्ट्रेलिया in the रग्बी संसार Cup quarter-final, जो then stated he would नहीं be signing a नई deal.
the पिछला कप्तान was जॉन smit, जो पहले he रिटायर्ड in 2011 निभाई hooker लिये सबसे of his करियर, although he रै भी महरूम a prop, mainly in 2008 and 2009.
due to smit होने अनुपलब्ध लिये the November 2010 परीक्षण after surgery, ताला विक्टर matfield took Smit 's प्लेस as कप्तान for कि tour.
The current कप्तान is Jean de Villiers.
The बैटल of Gettysburg (, साथ an ध्वनि ), थी लड़ा जुलाई 1–3, 1863, in और around the town of gettysburg, पेन्सिलवेनिया.
it थी the battle साथ the largest क्रमांक of हताहत in the American सिविल War and is प्रायः वर्णित as the war 's turning पाइंट.
संघ Maj. Gen. George गॉर्डन Meade 's फौज of the potomac पराजित हमले by Confederate gen. रॉबर्ट E. ली 's फौज of Northern वर्जिनिया, समाप्ति ली 's invasion of the उत्तर.
After उसके success at Chancellorsville in Virginia in May 1863, ली led his फौज through the Shenandoah घाटी to begin उसके second आक्रमण of the North—the Gettysburg Campaign.
With उसके फौज in high आत्माओं, Lee intended to shift the focus of the summer अभियान इससे war-ravaged उत्तरी वर्जिनिया and hoped to influence उत्तरी राजनेता to दे up उनके अभियोजन of the war by penetrating as far as Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, or भी Philadelphia.
prodded by अध्यक्ष Abraham lincoln, maj. gen. Joseph वेश्या स्थानांतरित his फौज in pursuit, but was relieved बस तीन दिनों before the battle और replaced by Meade.
Elements of the two armies initially collided at Gettysburg on July 1, 1863, as Lee तत्काल concentrated उसके forces there, his उद्देश्य होने to engage the Union फौज and नष्ट it.
कम ridges to the उत्तरपश्चिम of कस्बा यहूद defended initially by a संघ प्यादे division अंतर्गत ब्रिगेडियर. gen. John buford, और जल्द reinforced साथ दो corps of संघ infantry.
However, दो विशाल confederate corps फहरा them इससे the उत्तरपश्चिम and north, collapsing the hastily developed संघ लाइनों, sending the defenders retreating through the गलियों of कस्बा to the पहाड़ियाँ just to the दक्षिण.
On the दूसरी दिन of बैटल, सबसे of दोनो सेना था समवेत.
the संघ line थी रखी आउट in a रक्षात्मक formation resembling a fishhook.
In the लेट afternoon of जुलाई 2, Lee शुभारम्भ a भारी उत्पीड़न on the Union बाएँ पार्श्व, and fierce fighting raged at Little गोलाकार शीर्ष, the Wheatfield, Devil 's Den, and the आड़ू बाग़.
on the Union सही, demonstrations escalated into full-scale assaults on culp 's Hill और Cemetery हिल.
All आरपार the रणभूमि, despite significant नुकसान, the Union defenders आयोजित उनके लाइनों.
on the third दिन of बैटल, जुलाई 3, लड़ resumed on Culp 's हिल, and प्यादे लड़ाइयों raged to the ईस्ट और दक्षिण, लकिन the प्रमुख इवेंट was a dramatic infantry उत्पीड़न by 12,500 Confederates against the center of the Union line on कब्रिस्तान लकीरें, ज्ञात as Pickett 's चार्ज.
the चार्ज थी repulsed by Union rifle और तोपखाने आग, at ग्रेट नुकसान to the Confederate फौज.
ली led his army on a torturous रिट्रीट back to वर्जिनिया.
Between 46,000 and 51,000 सैनिको from both सेना were हताहत in the three-day बैटल.
That November, President Lincoln used the समर्पण ceremony लिये the Gettysburg नेशनल कब्रिस्तान to सम्मान the गिरे संघ सैनिको और redefine the purpose of the युद्ध in उसके historic gettysburg Address.
an अकादमिक discipline, or field of study, is a branch of knowledge कि is सिखाया और शोधकार्य at the कॉलेज or विश्वविद्यालयों level.
disciplines हैं पारिभाषित ( in भाग ), और recognized by the अकादमिक जर्नल्स in which research is प्रकाशित, और the सीखे societies और अकादमिक विभाग or faculties to जिससे their practitioners belong.
however, वहीँ exists no formal मापदण्ड लिये जब शैक्षणिक programs and scholarly जर्नल्स रूप an अकादमिक discipline.
a huge difference exists between, on the one hand, well स्थापित disciplines कि exist in लगभग सब universities all over the संसार, have a long history, and have a well स्थापित नियत of जर्नल्स और सम्मेलनों, और, on the अन्य hand, suggestions for नई फ़ील्ड समर्थित only by few universities and publications.
फ़ील्ड of study usually have अनेक sub-disciplines or branches, और the distinguishing lines between ये are प्रायः both मनमानी और अस्पष्ट.
PHP is a server-side एनक्रिप्शन language designed लिये वेब विकास लकिन also used as a general-purpose प्रोग्रामिंग भाषा.
PHP is now संस्थापित on अधिक than 244 लाख वेबसाइटों and 2.1 लाख वेब servers.
originally created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1995, the reference क्रियान्वयन of PHP is अभी उत्पादित by the पीएचपी समूह.
जबकि PHP originally stood लिये निजी Home Page, it अभी स्टैंड for PHP : हाइपरटेक्स्ट Preprocessor, a recursive acronym.
PHP code is interpreted by a web सर्वर with a PHP प्रोसेसर मोड्यूल which generates the resulting वेब page : पीएचपी कमांड can be अंतःस्थापित सीधे into an HTML सोर्स दस्तावेज़ बल्कि than कॉलिंग an external file to process आंकड़ा.
It रै भी विकसित to शामिल a command-line इंटरफ़ेस काबिलियत and can be प्रयुक्त in स्टैंडअलोन graphical अनुप्रयोग.
पीएचपी is free तन्त्र released under the PHP अनुज्ञा, जिससे is incompatible with the ग्नू General Public अनुज्ञा ( जीपीएल ) due to restrictions on the usage of the term PHP.
पीएचपी can be तैनात on सबसे वेब सर्वर and भी as a स्टैंडअलोन शेल on लगभग प्रत्येक ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली and मंच, free of चार्ज.
जॉन fitzgerald `` Jack '' कैनेडी ( May 29, 1917 – नवम्बर 22, 1963 ), प्रायः referred to by his initials JFK, थी the 35th President of the संयुक्त राज्य, सेवारत from 1961 जबतक उसके death in 1963.
बाद military सेवा as कमांडर of the मोटर torpedo नौकाएँ PT-109 and pt-59 दौरान संसार War ii in the दक्षिण Pacific, Kennedy represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional ज़िला in the u.S. House of Representatives इससे 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat.
Thereafter, he परोसा in the u.S. Senate इससे 1953 जबतक 1960.
कैनेडी defeated वाइस अध्यक्ष और रिपब्लिकन प्रत्याशी रिचर्ड निक्सन in the 1960 u.S. presidential चुनाव.
at 43 सालो of आयु, he is the youngest to have महरूम elected to the office, the second-youngest अध्यक्ष ( बाद Theodore रूज़वेल्ट ), and the first व्यक्ति born in the 20th सदी to serve as अध्यक्ष.
a Catholic, कैनेडी is the only non- प्रोटोस्टेंट अध्यक्ष, और is the तभी अध्यक्ष to have जीती a Pulitzer Prize.
कार्यक्रम during उसके presidency included the खाड़ी of Pigs आक्रमण, the क्यूबन मिसाइल संकट, the भवन of the Berlin Wall, the स्पेस Race, the African-American Civil अधिकारों Movement, and जल्दी stages of the वियतनाम युद्ध.
therein, कैनेडी increased the क्रमांक of सैन्य advisers, special आपरेशन forces, and helicopters in an effort to कोर the spread of साम्यवादी in दक्षिण ईस्ट Asia.
The Kennedy administration अपनाया the नीति of the Strategic हैमलेट कार्यक्रम जिससे थी implemented by the South वियतनामी government.
it शामिल निश्चित forced relocation, गाँव internment, and पृथक्करण of rural दक्षिण वियतनामी इससे the उत्तरी और southern कम्युनिस्ट insurgents.
Kennedy थी assassinated on नवम्बर 22, 1963 in डलास, टेक्सास.
ली घनघोर Oswald थी चार्ज with the अपराधों, लकिन he was shot और killed by Jack Ruby दो दिनों बाद, before a trial could लो place.
The एफबीआई और the वारेन Commission officially concluded that Oswald was the lone assassin.
however, the United राज्य हाउस चुनें Committee on assassinations ( hsca ) concluded कि those investigations were flawed और that कैनेडी थी probably assassinated as the result of a conspiracy.
however, एबीसी News in उनके investigation, the कैनेडी हत्या : Beyond षड्यंत्र, पुष्टि the निष्कर्षों of the वारेन Commission ; having concluded Oswald acted alone.
कैनेडी 's controversial विभाग of रक्षा TFX सेनानी bomber program led to a congressional छानबीन that lasted इससे 1963 to 1970.
चूंकि the 1960s information concerning कैनेडी 's private जीवन has आइये to लाइट.
विवरण of Kennedy 's स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं in जिससे he struggled have become बेहतर ज्ञात, विशेषकर चूंकि the 1990s.
हालांकि initially रखा रहस्य इससे the सामान्य पब्लिक, reports of कैनेडी 's philandering have garnered much दबायें.
Kennedy ranks highly in पब्लिक राय ratings of u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों.
`` स्टैंड by me '' is a सोंग originally performed by बेन E. किंग and लिखा by King, जेरी Leiber, और माइक stoller, प्रेरित by the आध्यात्मिक `` रब स्टैंड by Me, '' प्लस two lines rooted in ज़बूर 46:2–3.
वहीँ have महरूम over 400 recorded versions of the सोंग.
a political कार्टून from an 1894 Puck magazine by इलस्ट्रेटर s.d. Ehrhart, shows a फार्म woman labeled `` लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी '' sheltering from a बवंडर of राजनैतिक बदलें.
A metaphor is a figure of वाक that describes a विषय by asserting कि it is, on कुछ पाइंट of तुलना, the same as another otherwise unrelated object.
रूपक is a प्रकार of सादृश्य और is closely related to अन्य rhetorical आंकड़े of speech कि achieve उनके प्रभाव via association, comparison or प्रतिरूप सहित allegory, अतिशयोक्ति, and simile.
In simpler शर्तें, a रूपक compares दो वस्तुएँ or things बगैर using the शब्द `` जैसे '' or `` as ''.
One of the most prominent उदाहरण of a metaphor in अंग्रेज़ी साहित्य is the All the संसार 's a स्टेज monologue इससे as तुम Like It :
All the world 's a स्टैगe,
और सब the men and महिलाओं merely खिलाड़ी ;
वे have उनके exits और their entrances ; — विलियम Shakespeare, as You Like It, 2/7
This quote is a रूपक क्युकी the संसार is नहीं literally a स्टेज.
By figuratively asserting कि the world is a स्टेज, शेक्सपियर उपयोग the अंक of comparison between the संसार और a stage to convey an understanding परिचय the यांत्रिकी of the world और the जीवनदान of the people भीतर it.
माउंट Fuji, इससे the Thirty-six Views of Mount फुजी, रंग woodcut by Katsushika Hokusai
rembrandt van rijn, self-portrait, etching, c.1630
फ्रांसिस्को Goya, There is no एक To सहायता उन्हें, Disasters of युद्ध series, aquatint c.1810
फेलिक्स Vallotton, la raison probante ( the Cogent कारण ), woodcut इससे the श्रेणी Intimités, 1898
printmaking is the प्रक्रम of making artworks by मुद्रण, normally on पेपर.
printmaking normally covers तभी the process of बनाना prints साथ an element of मौलिकता, rather than बस होने a photographic जनन of a painting.
मगर in the मामला of monotyping, the प्रक्रम is capable of producing multiples of the वही टुकड़ा, which is called a print.
Each print produced is not माना a `` नक़ल '' but rather is माना an `` original ''.
इस is because typically each print varies to an extent due to variables intrinsic to the printmaking process, और also क्युकी the imagery of a छपाई is typically नहीं बस a reproduction of another work लकिन rather is often a unique चित्र designed इससे the start to be expressed in a particular printmaking तकनीक.
a छपाई may be ज्ञात as an छाप.
Printmaking ( अन्य than monotyping ) is नहीं चुनी only लिये इसके क्षमता to उपज multiple impressions, but rather for the unique qualities कि प्रत्येक of the printmaking प्रक्रियाओं lends itself to.
prints हैं निर्मित by transferring स्याही इससे a matrix or through a prepared स्क्रीन to a sheet of पेपर or other सामग्री.
आम प्रकार of matrices include : मेटल प्लेटों, प्रायः copper or जस्ता, or पॉलिमर plates लिये नक्काशी or etching ; स्टोन, एल्यूमिनियम, or पॉलिमर लिये lithography ; ब्लॉक of लकडी लिये woodcuts और लकडी engravings ; and linoleum लिये linocuts.
screens made of silk or synthetic fabrics हैं प्रयुक्त लिये the screenprinting process.
अन्य types of मेट्रिक्स substrates and related प्रक्रियाओं हैं discussed नीचे.
अनेक impressions मुद्रित इससे the same मेट्रिक्स रूप an edition.
Since the लेट 19th सदी, कलाकारों have generally हस्ताक्षरित individual impressions इससे an संस्करण और often number the impressions to form a सीमित संस्करण.
prints may also be printed in book form, ऐसे as illustrated किताबे or कलाकार 's books.
Il divo is an English multinational operatic pop vocal group निर्मित by म्यूज़िक manager, executive, and reality tv स्टार साइमन cowell.
formed in the United किंगडम, they are also हस्ताक्षरित to Cowell 's रिकार्ड लेबल, syco म्यूज़िक.
Il Divo is a समूह of four male गायकों : फ्रेंच पॉप सिंगर Sébastien izambard, स्पेनी baritone Carlos Marín, American टेनर दाउद मिलर, और स्विस टेनर Urs Bühler.
to date, they have sold अधिक than 26 लाख एल्बम विश्वव्यापी.
su-15, एक of the principal Soviet एयर Defence interceptors in the 1970s और 1980s
an interceptor वायुयान ( or simply interceptor ) is a प्रकार of fighter वायुयान designed specifically to prevent missions of enemy aircraft, विशेषकर बमवर्षक and reconnaissance aircraft, और नष्ट उन्हें, relying usually on ग्रेट गति and powerful armament.
होने प्रयुक्त चूंकि the First World युद्ध, after the late 1960s, interceptors became कम important due to shifting इससे बमवर्षक to इंटरकांटिनेंटल ballistic missiles ( icbms ) for नाभिकीय warfare.
A Vietnamese अमरीकी ( ) is an अमरीकी of वियतनामी descent.
वे make up about हाफ of all विदेशी वियतनामी ( người Việt hải ngoại ) और are the fourth-largest एशियाई अमरीकी समूह.
Mass वियतनामी आव्रजन to the संयुक्त States started बाद 1975, after the समाप्त of the Vietnam War.
जल्दी आप्रवासियों यहूद refugee नाव लोगों fleeing persecution or गरीबी.
Forced to भागो from उनके मातृभूमि और प्रायः thrust into ग़रीब शहरी पड़ोस, ये newcomers have nevertheless managed to स्थापित strong समुदायों in a छोटी राशि of समय.
More than साठ percent of वियतनामी अमेरिकी reside in the states of California, Texas, वॉशिंगटन, Florida, and वर्जिनिया.
सामने पेज of the u.S. हथियारबंद शक्तियां समाचारपत्र, सितारों और धारियाँ, 2 may 1945
Adolf Hitler वचनबद्ध आत्महत्या by gunshot on 30 अप्रैल 1945 in his führerbunker in बर्लिन.
His बीवी एवा ( née braun ) committed आत्महत्या साथ him by ingesting साइनाइड.
That दोपहर, in accordance with Hitler 's prior instructions, उनके remains were carried up the सीढ़ियाँ through the bunker 's आपात exit, doused in पेट्रोल and set alight in the reich chancellery garden outside the बंकर.
the सोवियत अभिलेख record that उनके जले remains यहूद recovered and interred in successive स्थितियाँ जबतक 1970 जब वे were again exhumed, cremated और the ashes बिखरे.
खाते differ as to the कारण of मौत ; एक that he died by poison तभी and another that he died by a self-inflicted gunshot, जबकि biting bas on a cyanide कैप्सूल.
समकालीन इतिहासकारों have rejected ये खाते as being either सोवियत propaganda or an attempted compromise in order to reconcile the different conclusions.
एक eye-witness recorded that the body showed लक्षण of having महरूम shot through the मुँह, but this रै महरूम सिद्ध unlikely.
वहीँ is भी विवाद regarding the authenticity of skull और jaw fragments जिससे यहूद recovered.
in 2009, डीएनए परीक्षण यहूद performed on a कपाल सोवियत officials had long believed to be हिटलर 's.
The tests revealed कि the कपाल थी actually कि of a woman कम than 40 सालो old.
Location of मिसौरी
The दारू laws of Missouri हैं among the तनिक प्रतिबंधक and सबसे lax और permissive in the संयुक्त States.
मिसौरी is known throughout the मिडवेस्ट लिये इसके largely laissez-faire approach to दारू regulation, in शार्प कंट्रास्ट to the बहुत सख्त दारू laws of कुछ of इसके पड़ोसी, जैसे कान्सास और ओक्लाहोमा.
necrotizing fasciitis ( or ) or nf, commonly ज्ञात as flesh-eating disease or flesh-eating bacteria सिंड्रोम, is a rare संक्रमण of the deeper layers of skin और subcutaneous tissues, easily spreading across the fascial plane भीतर the subcutaneous tissue.
necrotizing fasciitis is quickly progressing, having greater risk of विकासशील in the immunocompromised due to conditions like diabetes, कर्कट, इत्यादि.
It is a कठोर बीमारी of अचानक onset और is usually treated तत्काल साथ high doses of intravenous एंटीबायोटिक.
Type I describes a polymicrobial संक्रमण, whereas प्रकार ii describes a monomicrobial infection.
अनेक प्रकार of bacteria can cause necrotizing fasciitis ( e.g., Group A streptococcus ( streptococcus pyogenes ), staphylococcus aureus, Clostridium perfringens, Bacteroides fragilis, Aeromonas hydrophila ).
ऐसे infections are अधिक likely to occur in people साथ compromised प्रतिरक्षा systems.
historically, समूह a streptococcus बना up सबसे cases of प्रकार ii infections.
however, चूंकि as early as 2001, another serious रूप of monomicrobial necrotizing fasciitis has महरूम observed साथ increasing आवृत्ति, caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ).
कुछ प्रकाशित मामला रिपोर्ट्स have implied a possible कड़ी between उपयोग of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and NF, हालांकि the प्रमाण of the कड़ी थी कहा to be weak because of a small क्रमांक of मामला patients and it थी unclear whether the drugs just नकाबपोश the लक्षण of a secondary संक्रमण or were a cause per se.
World War II ( WWII or WW2 ), भी ज्ञात as the दूसरी संसार War, थी a global war कि lasted from 1939 to 1945.
it involved the विशाल बहुमत of the संसार 's nations —including सब of the great शक्तियां —eventually forming दो opposing सैन्य alliances : the Allies और the अक्ष.
it was the सबसे फैली युद्ध in history, साथ more than 100 million people सेवारत in सैन्य इकाई इससे over 30 different देशों.
In a राज्य of `` कुल युद्ध ``, the प्रमुख participants लगाई their संपूर्ण economic, industrial, and scientific capabilities at the सेवा of the war प्रयत्न, erasing the distinction between civilian and सैन्य संसाधन.
Marked by द्रव्यमान deaths of नागरिकों, सहित the Holocaust and the only उपयोग of नाभिकीय weapons in warfare, it resulted in 50 million to over 75 लाख fatalities.
ये deaths मेक संसार War II by दूर the deadliest विरोध in इंसान इतिहास.
the Empire of जापानी aimed to dominate East Asia और was already at war with the गणतंत्र of China in 1937, लकिन the world युद्ध is generally said to have begun on 1 सितंबर 1939 with the invasion of कैंडल by जर्मनी और subsequent घोषणाओं of युद्ध on जर्मनी by France और Britain.
From लेट 1939 to जल्दी 1941, in a श्रेणी of अभियान और treaties, जर्मनी formed the Axis alliance साथ इटली, conquering or subduing much of महाद्वीपीय यूरोपीय.
Following the molotov–ribbentrop Pact, Germany and the Soviet Union partitioned और annexed territories between themselves of उनके European पड़ोसी, सहित Poland.
the संयुक्त Kingdom and the other सदस्यों of the अंग्रेजों Commonwealth were the only major अलाइड शक्तियां continuing the fight against the Axis, साथ लड़ाइयों taking प्लेस in उत्तर अफ़्रीकी as well as the long-running बैटल of the Atlantic.
In जून 1941, the यूरोपीय अक्ष शुभारम्भ an invasion of the सोवियत Union, giving a प्रारंभ to the largest जमीन थिएटर of war in history, which tied bas the प्रमुख भाग of the Axis ' सैन्य शक्तियां लिये the बाकी of the war.
In दिसम्बर 1941, Japan joined the Axis, attacked the United States और European territories in the प्रशांत समंदर, और quickly conquered much of the पश्चिमी प्रशांत.
The Axis advance थी रोका in 1942, बाद Japan lost a series of नवल लड़ाइयों और यूरोपीय अक्ष troops यहूद defeated in North अफ़्रीकी and, decisively, at Stalingrad.
in 1943, साथ a श्रेणी of जर्मनी defeats in Eastern Europe, the Allied invasion of इटली, और अमरीकी victories in the प्रशांत, the अक्ष खोया the पहल और undertook रणनीतिक retreat on सब fronts.
In 1944, the पश्चिमी allies invaded फ़्रांस, जबकि the सोवियत संघ regained all of its territorial नुकसान और invaded Germany और its allies.
During 1944 and 1945 the संयुक्त राज्य पराजित the Japanese नेवी और captured कुंजी पश्चिमी Pacific आइलैंड्स.
the युद्ध in Europe ended with the capture of बर्लिन by सोवियत और Polish सैनिकों और the subsequent जर्मनी unconditional आत्मसमर्पण on 8 may 1945.
Following the Potsdam Declaration by the Allies on 26 July 1945, the संयुक्त States dropped परमाणु बम on the Japanese cities of हिरोशिमा on 6 अगस्त, और नागासाकी on 9 August.
साथ an आक्रमण of the Japanese archipelago imminent, and the सोवियत संघ having घोषित युद्ध on Japan by आक्रमणकारी Manchuria, जापानी surrendered on 15 August 1945, ending the युद्ध in Asia और cementing the कुल victory of the allies over the Axis.
संसार War ii altered the political संरेखण and सोशल structure of the world.
the संयुक्त राष्ट्र ( un ) थी स्थापित to foster international cooperation और prevent future विरोध.
The ग्रेट powers that यहूद the victors of the war—the संयुक्त राज्य, the सोवियत संघ, चीन, the United Kingdom, and france—became the permanent members of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सुरक्षा परिषद.
The सोवियत Union और the United States emerged as प्रतिद्वंद्वी superpowers, setting the स्टेज for the ठंडा युद्ध, which lasted for the अगला 46 सालो.
Meanwhile, the influence of European great शक्तियां started to decline, while the decolonisation of एशिया and Africa began.
Most देशों जिनकी industries था been क्षतिग्रस्त स्थानांतरित towards आर्थिक recovery.
Political संयोजन, especially in Europe, उभरा as an प्रयत्न to stabilise postwar संबंध और लड़ो more effectively in the ठंडा युद्ध.
a सीमित देयता company ( llc ) is a लचीली form of एंटरप्राइज़ कि मिश्रणों तत्व of साझेदारी and कॉरपोरेट structures.
नोट than an llc is not a निगम, and calling an llc a निगम is technically गलत.
an llc is a विधिक रूप of कम्पनी कि provides limited देयता to इसके स्वामी in the विशाल बहुमत of संयुक्त राज्य jurisdictions.
LLCs do not need to be organized लिये profit.
Five K-Cups
the inside of a used K-Cup, साथ the top foil and the used कॉफी grounds removed.
इस shows the फिल्टर inside the K-Cup.
K-Cup portion पैक हैं प्रयुक्त साथ Keurig or other सिंगल cup brewing प्रणालियों to काढ़ा a कप of कॉफी, tea, or hot चॉकलेट.
प्रत्येक k-cup is a plastic संग्राहक साथ a कॉफी फिल्टर inside.
मैदान coffee सेम are packed in the k-cup and sealed air-tight with a combination प्लास्टिक and foil ढक्कन.
जब the K-Cup is लगाई in a Keurig brewer, the brewer punctures the foil ढक्कन और the bottom of the k-cup and शक्तियां hot water अंतर्गत दबाव through the k-cup and into a मग.
keurig licenses its K-Cup technology to कॉफी roasters and चाय makers ऐसे as ग्रीन Mountain कॉफी roasters, diedrich/ ग्लोरिया जीन्स, टिमोथी 's संसार कॉफी, वैन Houtte, Caribou कॉफी, celestial Seasonings, Bigelow चाय Company, Twinings, Tully 's, कॉफी People and न्युमैन 's Own.
keurig 's patents on the original K-Cup design expired in September 2012.
keurig holds at तनिक एक अतिरिक्त, still-active US पेटेंट और another patent application, detailing सुधार कि have subsequently been incorporated in उनके K-Cup डिज़ाइन.
electa Pocket Chronograph ( ca. 1890s ) manufactured by the gallet देखें Company in La chaux-de-fonds, स्विट्ज़रलैंड.
gallet multichron astronomic ( ca. 1959 ) —complex mechanical chronograph with 12 hour recoding capabilities, स्वचालित दिन, तिथि, माह, और चंद्रमा phase display
a आधुनिक seiko क्वार्ट्ज wristwatch using the chronograph फलन ( movement 7t92 ).
Citizen atessa eco-drive atv53-3023 analog-digital chronograph साथ 4 क्षेत्रफल Radio नियंत्रित reception ( उत्तर America, Europe, चीन, जापानी ).
A chronograph is a विशिष्ट प्रकार of देखें that is प्रयुक्त as a stopwatch combined साथ a display watch.
a basic chronograph has an independent स्वीप second हाथ ; it can be प्रारंभ, रोका, और लौटे to शून्य by successive दबाव on the स्टेम.
Louis Moinet invented the chronograph in 1816
Conventional पीसीआई ( PCI is an initialism formed from परिधीय घटक Interconnect, part of the पीसीआई लोकल बस standard और often shortened to बस पीसीआई ) is a local कंप्यूटर bus लिये attaching हार्डवेयर डिवाइस in a computer.
The पीसीआई बस supports the functions found on a processor बस, लकिन in a मानकीकृत format कि is स्वतंत्र of कोई particular प्रोसेसर.
डिवाइस कनेक्ट to the बस appear to the प्रोसेसर to be connected सीधे to the processor bus, और are आबंटित पता in the प्रोसेसर 's address space.
संलग्न devices can लो either the रूप of an integrated सर्किट fitted onto the मदरबोर्ड itself, पुकारा a planar device in the PCI specification, or an विस्तार कार्ड कि fits into a slot.
the PCI Local Bus थी पहला implemented in ibm PC compatibles, where it विस्थापित the संयोजन of isa plus एक vesa लोकल बस as the bus विन्यास.
It has subsequently been adopted लिये अन्य कंप्यूटर प्रकार.
पीसीआई और PCI-X हैं being replaced by पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस, लकिन, most motherboards are still बना साथ एक or more पीसीआई slots, which are sufficient लिये many उपयोग.
the पीसीआई specification covers the physical आकार of the बस ( including the size और अंतरण of the सर्किट board edge electrical contacts ), विद्युत characteristics, बस समय, और प्रोटोकॉल.
the specification can be खरीदा इससे the पीसीआई Special Interest Group ( pci-sig ).
ठेठ PCI ताश used in PCs include : network ताश, ध्वनि ताश, modems, extra ports such as usb or सीरियल, tv tuner ताश और डिस्क controllers.
PCI video cards replaced ISA और vesa cards, until growing बैंडविड्थ आवश्यकताएँ outgrew the capabilities of PCI ; the पसन्दीदा interface for वीडियो ताश became अगप, and तब PCI Express.
PCI वीडियो ताश remain उपलब्धियाँ for उपयोग साथ old PCs बगैर AGP or PCI एक्स्प्रेस स्लॉट.
अनेक devices previously provided on पीसीआई expansion cards हैं now commonly integrated onto motherboards or उपलब्धियाँ in universal सीरियल बस और पीसीआई Express संस्करण.
माइकल Whitaker स्मिथ ( born October 7, 1957 ) is an अमरीकी contemporary ईसाई संगीतकार, who रै charted primarily in the contemporary ईसाई and occasionally in the मुख्यधारा चार्ट.
His biggest success in mainstream म्यूज़िक थी in 1991 जब `` प्लेस in this संसार '' hit no. 6 on the Billboard hot 100.
स्मिथ is a three-time Grammy पुरस्कार विजेता, और रै अर्जित 40 dove Awards.
Over the कोर्स of his career, he sold अधिक than 13 लाख albums and recorded 29 No. 1 hit songs, fourteen सुनहरा एल्बम, and five प्लेटिनम एल्बम.
स्मिथ is an अमरीकी म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार प्राप्तकर्ता ; he was भी named one of People पत्रिका 's `` Most खूबसूरत लोगों ''.
An अमरीकी poster इससे the World युद्ध ii -era that थी used to inform people परिचय what वे should do if they suspect तोड़फोड़.
तोड़फोड़ is a deliberate action aimed at weakening another एंटिटी through subversion, obstruction, disruption, or destruction.
in a workplace सेटिंग, sabotage is the conscious withdrawal of दक्षता generally directed at causing some change in workplace शर्तें.
एक जो engages in तोड़फोड़ is a saboteur.
as a नियम, saboteurs try to छिपाते उनके पहचान क्युकी of the consequences of उनके actions.
For example, whereas an पर्यावरणीय pressure group might be happy to be identified with an act of तोड़फोड़, it होता नहीं want the individual पहचान of the perpetrators known.
पैट्रिक हेनरी कॉलेज ( phc ) is a निजी, independent college साथ an धर्मान्तरण Christian basis कि focuses on शिक्षण शास्त्रीय liberal कला and सरकारी, स्तिथ in Purcellville, वर्जिनिया, United States.
पैट्रिक हेनरी is ज्ञात लिये its conservative धर्मान्तरण Christian focus.
as of अप्रैल 17, 2007, the college थी accredited by the Transnational Association of ईसाई Colleges and Schools, a national faith-related accrediting organization पहचाना by the Department of Education and the परिषद लिये Higher शिक्षा प्रत्यायन.
the स्कूल थी संस्थापित साथ the सहायता of the Home School विधिक Defense संघ, और अभी serves as the headquarters for the संगठन, साथ जिससे it is still closely कनेक्ट.
the history of टेलीविज़न comprises the कार्य of numerous इंजीनियर्स and inventors in several countries over अनेक दशकों.
The earliest प्रस्ताव was in 1908, in a पेपर by A. A. Campbell-Swinton and postulated the use of cathode rays.
the first व्यावहारिक demonstrations of टेलीविज़न, however, यहूद developed using electromechanical methods to scan, संचारण, and reproduce an image.
As electronic camera और प्रदर्शक tubes यहूद perfected, electromechanical टेलीविज़न दिया रास्ता to all-electronic प्रणालियों in nearly सब applications.
L'Idéal cinéma - ज़ाक tati at aniche खोली November 23rd 1905 ; the oldest still-active movie थिएटर in the world
A सिनेमा in ऑस्ट्रेलिया
a ठेठ multiplex ( AMC Promenade 16 in Woodland पहाड़ियाँ, लॉस एंजिल्स, U.S. )
a movie theater ( also called a cinema, movie हाउस, फिल्मी house, फिल्मी थिएटर or चित्र house ) is a स्थान, प्रायः a भवन, for देखने films.
Most लकिन नहीं सब फिल्म थिएटर are वाणिज्यिक operations केटरिंग to the सामान्य पब्लिक, जो attend by purchasing a ticket.
the फिल्म is प्रक्षिप्त साथ a movie प्रोजेक्टर onto a विशाल प्रक्षेप स्क्रीन at the front of the ऑडिटोरियम.
Most movie थिएटर हैं अभी equipped लिये डिजिटल सिनेमा प्रक्षेप, निकालना the need to create और हस्तांतरण a physical फिल्मी छपाई.
दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया Norton मालिक 's क्लबों on कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य रूट 41, निकट creston.
a मोटरसाइकिल club is a समूह of individuals जिनकी प्राथमिक ब्याज और क्रियाएँ involve motorcycles.
lyme बीमारी, lyme borreliosis is an संक्रामक बीमारी caused by at least three प्रजाति of जीवाणु belonging to the genus borrelia.
borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto is the main कारण of lyme disease in उत्तर अमेरिका, whereas borrelia afzelii and Borrelia garinii कारण सबसे European cases.
the बीमारी is नामित बाद the कस्बों of lyme और Old Lyme, Connecticut, यूएसए, जहाँ a क्रमांक of cases यहूद पहचाना in 1975.
हालांकि Allen steere एहसास कि lyme बीमारी थी a tick-borne बीमारी in 1978, the कारण of the बीमारी remained a mystery until 1981, when B. burgdorferi was identified by विली burgdorfer.
lyme disease is the most common tick-borne बीमारी in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध.
borrelia is transmitted to humans by the काटना of संक्रमित ticks belonging to a few species of the genus Ixodes ( `` hard ticks '' ).
जल्दी लक्षण may शामिल fever, headache, थकान, अवसाद, और a characteristic गोलाकार skin rash पुकारा erythema migrans ( em ).
बाएँ अनुपचारित, बाद symptoms may involve the joints, दिल, and सेंट्रल बेचैन प्रणाली.
In सबसे cases, the संक्रमण और its symptoms हैं eliminated by antibiotics, especially if the बीमारी is treated early.
Delayed or अपर्याप्त उपचार can lead to more गंभीर symptoms, जिससे can be disabling and मुश्किल to treat.
Penises of minke whales on प्रदर्शक at the Icelandic phallological संग्रहालय
शिश्न ( plural penises or penes ) is a सामान्य पद लिये the organs साथ जिससे male और उभयलिंगी animals introduce शुक्राणु into receptive महिलाओं दौरान copulation.
ऐसे organs occur in अनेक पशु, दोनो vertebrate और invertebrate, but males do नहीं bear a penis in every एनिमल प्रजाति, and in those प्रजाति in which the पुरूष करता bear a so-called penis, the penes in the various species are not necessarily समजात.
लिये example, the शिश्न of a स्तनधारी is at सबसे analogous to the शिश्न of a पुरूष insect or barnacle.
The पद शिश्न applies to many reproductive intromittent organs, but नहीं to सब ; लिये example the intromittent अंग of most cephalopoda is the hectocotylus, a specialised arm, और male spiders उपयोग उनके pedipalps.
in most प्रजाति of पशु in जिससे there is an organ कि might reasonably be वर्णित as a penis, it रै no प्रमुख फलन अन्य than intromission, or at least conveying the sperm to the female, लकिन in the placental स्तनधारियों the शिश्न bears the distal part of the urethra, which discharges दोनो मूत्र दौरान urination और semen during copulation as the अवसर requires.
Artists और रंगमंडल ( a & R ) is the प्रभाग of a रिकार्ड लेबल or म्यूज़िक publishing कम्पनी कि is responsible लिये हुनर scouting and overseeing the कलाकारी विकास of रिकॉर्डिंग artists and/or songwriters.
It भी अधिनियमों as a liaison between कलाकारों और the रिकार्ड label or publishing कम्पनी ; every कार्यकलाप involving कलाकारों to the पाइंट of एल्बम release is generally माना under the purview of, और जिम्मेदारी of, a & r.
A furlong is a measure of distance in इम्पीरियल इकाई and u.S. प्रथागत units बराबर to one-eighth of a mile, equivalent to 220 गज, 660 फीट, 40 rods, or 10 जंजीरों.
the सटीक मान of the furlong varies थोड़ा among english-speaking देशों.
पाँच furlongs हैं लगभग 1 kilometre ( 1.0058 km is a closer approximation ).
चूंकि the असली परिभाषा of the मीटर थी one-quarter of one ten-millionth of the परिधि of the धरती ( साथ the ग्रेट circle coincident साथ the meridian of देशांतर passing through Paris ), the circumference of the Earth is about 40,000 km or about 200,000 furlongs.
cr2032 lithium button cell बैटरी
लिथियम 9 वोल्ट, AA, & aaa आकार
Lithium batteries are डिस्पोजेबल ( primary ) batteries that have लिथियम मेटल or lithium यौगिकों as an anode.
वे stand अलावा इससे अन्य batteries in उनके ऊँची चार्ज density ( long life ) और ऊँची लागत प्रति ईकाई.
depending on the डिज़ाइन and रासायनिक यौगिकों used, lithium कोशिकाएं can उपज voltages इससे 1.5 V ( comparable to a zinc–carbon or क्षारीय battery ) to परिचय 3.7 V. लिथियम बैटरी हैं widely used in उत्पाद such as portable consumer इलेक्ट्रॉनिक डिवाइस.
रेमंड `` Ray '' चार्ल्स जोकर lamontagne ( ; born June 18, 1973 ) is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter.
LaMontagne रै released four studio एल्बम, Trouble, तक the सूर्य Turns ब्लैक, Gossip in the Grain and God Willin ' & the Creek do n't वृद्धि.
He was born in New हैम्पशायर and was inspired to create music बाद सुनना an album by स्टीफन stills.
आलोचकों have compared LaMontagne 's म्यूज़िक to that of The बैंड, Van Morrison, उपनाम ड्रेक, और टिम buckley.
He lives in Massachusetts with his wife and two children.
जब the हवा Blows is a अनोखा by जेम्स पैटरसन.
it is the precursor to The झील House और प्रेरित the Maximum सवारी series.
the novel is currently नियत to be adapted into a फिल्म.
the Pittsburgh स्टीलर्स यहूद founded in 1933.
Over the course of the टोली 's history, the टोली रै had several logos while wearing वस्तुतः the वही वर्दी over the सालो, with हल्का changes बना to give the uniforms an अद्यतनीकृत dekh.
the टोली colors, uniforms, and logo हैं प्रायः क्रमित as being among the बेहतरीन in the एनएफएल.
फेसबुक on the Ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online सोशल नेटवर्किंग service, जिनकी नाम stems from the colloquial name लिये the किताब given to विद्यार्थी at the start of the अकादमिक साल by some विश्वविद्यालयों administrations in the संयुक्त States to सहायता विद्यार्थी मिलेंगी to know each अन्य.
it थी founded in फ़रवरी 2004 by चिह्नित zuckerberg साथ उसके कॉलेज roommates and fellow Harvard विश्वविद्यालयों विद्यार्थी Eduardo Saverin, Andrew mccollum, Dustin moskovitz और क्रिस ह्यूजेस.
the जालस्थल 's सदस्यता थी initially limited by the founders to हार्वर्ड विद्यार्थी, but थी विस्तारित to other colleges in the Boston area, the आइवी लीग, और Stanford विश्वविद्यालयों.
It gradually added support लिये विद्यार्थी at विभिन्न अन्य universities पहले opening to ऊँची school विद्यार्थी, और eventually to anyone aged 13 और over.
Facebook now allows कोई users जो घोषित themselves to be at तनिक 13 years बूढ़ा to become पंजीकृत users of the साईट.
Users जरूर पंजीकरण पहले using the साईट, बाद जिससे they may create a personal profile, add अन्य users as friends, और exchange messages, including automatic notifications when वे अद्यतन their प्रोफ़ाइल.
Additionally, उपयोक्ता may जुड़ें common-interest user समूह, organized by कार्यस्थल, स्कूल or college, or अन्य विशेषताएँ, and categorize उनके friends into सूचियाँ such as `` People इससे Work '' or `` Close Friends ''.
As of सितंबर 2012, Facebook has over one billion क्रियाशील उपयोक्ता.
according to a May 2011 Consumer रिपोर्ट्स सर्वेक्षण, वहीँ हैं 7.5 लाख children अंतर्गत 13 with accounts और 5 लाख अंतर्गत 10, violating the साईट 's शर्तें of सेवा.
In may 2005, accel साझेदार invested $ 12.7 लाख in Facebook, and जिम breyer added $ 1 लाख of उसके own money to the घट.
a जनवरी 2009 compete.com study क्रमित फेसबुक as the सबसे प्रयुक्त social networking सेवा by worldwide मासिक क्रियाशील उपयोक्ता.
entertainment साप्ताहिक शामिल the site on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list, saying, `` कैसा on earth did we stalk हमारी exes, याद our co-workers ' जन्मदिन, bug हमारी मित्रों, और play a rousing game of scrabulous before फेसबुक ? ''
आलोचकों, ऐसे as फेसबुक Detox, state कि Facebook रै turned into a नेशनल obsession in the United States, resulting in विशाल amounts of समय lost और प्रोत्साहित आत्ममोह.
Quantcast estimates Facebook रै 138.9 million monthly unique U.S. विज़िटर in may 2011.
according to सोशल मीडिया आज, in April 2010 an अनुमानित 41.6 % ( 129.5 million ) of the U.S. जनसांख्यिकी had a Facebook account.
nevertheless, फेसबुक 's मार्केट विकास started to स्टाल in कुछ regions, साथ the साईट losing 7 लाख active users in the संयुक्त राज्य और Canada in may 2011.
फेसबुक आखिरकार filed लिये an initial पब्लिक offering on February 1, 2012, और थी headquartered in मेनलो Park, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
Facebook Inc. began selling भण्डार to the public और trading on the NASDAQ on may 18, 2012.
अर्विन Johannes eugen ख़बरों ( 15 नवम्बर 1891 – 14 अक्तूबर 1944 ), popularly ज्ञात as the मरुस्थल फॉक्स ( wüstenfuchs, ), was a जर्मनी फ़ील्ड Marshal of World War ii.
he अर्जित the आदर of both his own सैनिकों and the enemies he fought.
ख़बरों was a highly decorated officer in संसार War I और थी awarded the Pour le Mérite लिये उसके कारनामे on the Italian front.
In संसार युद्ध II, he further विशिष्ट खुद as the commander of the 7th panzer Division during the 1940 invasion of फ़्रांस.
उसके leadership of जर्मनी और इतालवी forces in the उत्तर अफ़्रीकी अभियान स्थापित उसे as एक of the most समर्थ commanders of the war, और earned उसे the appellation of the मरुस्थल फॉक्स.
he is regarded as one of the सबसे skilled कमांडरों of मरुस्थल warfare in the विरोध.
he later commanded the जर्मनी शक्तियां opposing the अलाइड cross-channel आक्रमण in Normandy.
उसके कार्यभार never took उसे to the पूर्वी सामने.
ख़बरों is regarded as having been a दयालु and पेशेवर अधिकारी.
His afrika Korps थी never अभियुक्त of युद्ध crimes, और soldiers captured दौरान his अफ़्रीकी campaign were reported to have been treated humanely.
आदेश to मार यहूदी soldiers, नागरिकों और captured कमांडो यहूद उपेक्षित.
Late in the war, Rommel थी linked to the षड्यंत्र to assassinate Adolf हिटलर.
चूंकि Rommel was a national नायिका, Hitler desired to eliminate him quietly.
he forced Rommel to कमिट suicide with a cyanide गोली, in return for assurances that ख़बरों 's परिवार होता नहीं be persecuted following his मौत.
stained glass representation of the पावन स्पिरिट as a dove, c. 1660.
The seven उपहार of the पावन स्पिरिट is an enumeration of सात आध्यात्मिक gifts originating साथ patristic लेखक, later elaborated by पाँच बौद्धिक virtues and चार other समूह of नैतिक characteristics.
वे हैं : अक्ल, समझना, wonder और awe ( भय of the Lord ), counsel, knowledge, fortitude, and piety ( reverence ).
the धरती Day Flag, the latest proposal of जॉन mcconnell लिये a ध्वज of Earth दिन
Earth दिन is an annual event, मनाये on अप्रैल 22, on जिससे कार्यक्रम हैं आयोजित विश्वव्यापी to demonstrate support for environmental सुरक्षा.
it was पहला celebrated in 1970, और is अभी coordinated globally by the Earth दिन Network, और मनाये in अधिक than 192 देशों प्रत्येक साल.
In 1969 at a युनेस्को सम्मेलन in San फ्रांसिस्को, the तिथि प्रस्तावित थी कूच 21, 1970, the पहला day of वसन्त in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध.
This दिन of प्रकृति 's equipoise was बाद मंजूर in a Proclamation signed by Secretary सामान्य u Thant at the संयुक्त Nations.
A month later a पृथक धरती दिन was संस्थापित by संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटर gaylord Nelson as an पर्यावरणीय teach-in first आयोजित on अप्रैल 22, 1970.
नेल्सन was बाद awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom Award in मान्यता of उसके work.
जबकि इस April 22 Earth दिन थी केन्द्रित on the संयुक्त States, an organization शुभारम्भ by डेनिस हेज़, जो थी the असली नेशनल समन्वयक in 1970, took it अंतरराष्ट्रीय in 1990 और organized कार्यक्रम in 141 nations.
numerous समुदायों celebrate Earth सप्ताह, an संपूर्ण week of क्रियाएँ केन्द्रित on पर्यावरणीय issues.
आयोडीन is a रासायनिक element with symbol i and atomic क्रमांक 53.
the नाम is from यूनानी ioeidēs, अर्थ violet or purple, due to the color of elemental आयोडीन vapor.
आयोडीन और its यौगिकों हैं primarily used in पोषण, और industrially in the production of एसिटिक एसिड और निश्चित polymers.
Iodine 's अपेक्षाकृत high atomic क्रमांक, कम toxicity, और ease of attachment to सशुल्क यौगिकों have बना it a भाग of many x-ray contrast सामग्री in आधुनिक आयुर्विज्ञान.
Iodine has तभी one stable समस्थानिक.
a number of आयोडीन radioisotopes हैं भी used in medical अनुप्रयोग.
Iodine is found on धरती mainly as the highly water-soluble आयोडाइड आयन, I−, जिससे concentrates it in महासागर और brine तालों.
जैसे the other हैलोजन्स, free iodine occurs mainly as a diatomic अणु i2, और तब only momentarily बाद होने oxidized from आयोडाइड by an oxidant जैसे फ़्री ऑक्सीजन.
in the ब्रह्मांड and on Earth, आयोडीन 's high atomic number makes it a अपेक्षाकृत rare तत्व.
However, its presence in समंदर water has दिए it a भूमिका in जीवविज्ञान.
It is the अधिकतम अनिवार्य element utilized widely by life in biological functions ( तभी टंगस्टन, employed in enzymes by a few species of bacteria, is heavier ).
आयोडीन 's rarity in अनेक soils, due to initial low प्रचुरता as a crust-element, और भी leaching of घुलनशील आयोडाइड by rainwater, रै led to many deficiency समस्याएं in land animals and अंतर्देशीय इंसान populations.
Iodine deficiency affects about two billion लोगों and is the अग्रणी preventable कारण of बौद्धिक disabilities.
Iodine is required by उच्चतर पशु, जिससे उपयोग it to synthesize thyroid हार्मोन, which contain the element.
Because of इस फलन, radioisotopes of आयोडीन हैं concentrated in the थायराइड ग्रंथि साथ साथ nonradioactive iodine.
if inhaled, the radioisotope iodine-131, which has a high fission उत्पाद yield, concentrates in the thyroid, but is easily remedied with पोटैशियम iodide उपचार.
lobbying ( भी lobby ) is the अधिनियम of attempting to influence decisions बना by officials in the सरकारी, सबसे प्रायः legislators or members of regulatory एजेंसियों.
lobbying is done by many अलग types of people and organized groups, including individuals in the private sector, corporations, fellow विधायक or government officials, or वकालत groups ( ब्याज समूह ).
lobbyists may be among a विधायक 's constituencies, अर्थ a वोटर or bloc of मतदाता भीतर उसके or उसके electoral ज़िला, or नहीं ; वे may engage in lobbying as a कारोबार, or not.
पेशेवर lobbyists हैं लोगों whose business is trying to influence विधान on निमित्त of a समूह or व्यक्तिगत who hires them.
individuals और nonprofit संगठन can भी lobby as an अधिनियम of volunteering or as a छोटी part of their normal जॉब ( लिये उदाहरण, a CEO बैठक साथ a प्रतिनिधि about a project महत्वपूर्ण to his/her company, or an activist meeting with his/her विधायक in an unpaid capacity ).
Governments प्रायः define और regulate organized समूह lobbying कि रै become influential.
the आचार and नैतिकता of lobbying are.
lobbying is often बोला of साथ contempt, जब the implication is कि लोगों साथ inordinate socioeconomic शक्ति are corrupting the विधि ( टेढ़ी it दूर from fairness ) in अनुक्रम to serve उनके own conflict of interest.
But another पक्ष of lobbying is बनाना sure कि others ' interests are विधिवत defended विरूद्ध others ' corruption, or भी simply बनाना यकीनन कि अल्पसंख्यक रूचि हैं fairly defended विरूद्ध mere tyranny of the बहुमत.
For उदाहरण, a चिकित्सा संघ, or a trade संघ of स्वास्थ्य insurance companies, may lobby a विधानमंडल in अनुक्रम to counteract the influence of तम्बाकू companies, in which मामला the lobbying होता be viewed by सबसे people as जायज ( विधिवत defending विरूद्ध अन्य ' भ्रष्टाचार ).
the difficulty in drawing उद्देश्य लाइनों between जिससे lobbyists हैं `` शुभ lobbyists '' और जिससे ones are `` ख़राब ones '' is compounded by the cleverness साथ जिससे lobbyists or उनके क्लाइंट can argue कि their अपना lobbying is of the `` good '' kind.
At दिल, the प्रयत्न to influence विधान is a शक्ति संघर्ष.
as in other forms of शक्ति संघर्ष, such as war or law प्रवर्तन, motives range इससे to self-defense to fighting लिये इंसाफ, and the dividing line between predation और इंसाफ is विषय to rationalization.
सनशाइन of अपना प्रेम guitar रिफ
Cream यहूद a 1960s British चट्टान supergroup consisting of bassist/vocalist जोकर ब्रूस, guitarist/vocalist eric क्लैप्टन, और drummer अदरक बेकर.
उनके sound was characterised by a संकर of ब्लूज़ चट्टान, मुश्किल rock and साइकेडेलिक चट्टान, combining the psychedelia-themed गीत, eric क्लैप्टन 's ब्लूज़ गिटार playing और vocals, जोकर Bruce 's voice और prominent बास playing and अदरक बेकर 's जैज़ -influenced drumming.
the group 's तीसरा एल्बम, Wheels of Fire, was the संसार 's पहला platinum-selling दोगुना album.
मलाई हैं widely regarded as being the संसार 's पहला कामयाब supergroup.
in उनके करियर, वे बेची over 15 million albums विश्वव्यापी.
Cream 's म्यूज़िक शामिल गीतों आधारित on परंपरागत ब्लूज़ ऐसे as `` Crossroads `` and `` spoonful ``, और आधुनिक ब्लूज़ ऐसे as `` Born Under a ख़राब चिह्न ``, as खूब as more eccentric गीतों such as `` Strange काढ़ा ``, `` Tales of वीर ulysses `` and `` Toad ``.
Cream 's biggest हिट्स यहूद `` I महसूस फ़्री `` ( uk, क्रमांक 11 ), `` सनशाइन of Your प्रेम `` ( us, क्रमांक 5 ), `` श्वेत Room `` ( US, क्रमांक 6 ), `` क्रॉसरोड्स '' ( US, क्रमांक 28 ), और `` बैज `` ( uk, क्रमांक 18 ).
मलाई बना a significant प्रभाव on the लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक of the समय, और, साथ साथ जिमि हेंड्रिक्स, और टेरी कठ of शिकागो, popularised the उपयोग of the wah-wah pedal.
वे provided a heavy yet technically proficient musical theme कि foreshadowed और बहकावे the emergence of अंग्रेजों bands ऐसे as the जेफ़ Beck समूह in the लेट 1960s.
the बैंड 's live performances बहकावे प्रगतिशील चट्टान acts such as Rush.
मलाई यहूद inducted into the चट्टान और फेंकें हॉल of कीर्ति in 1993.
वे यहूद included in दोनो Rolling स्टोन और VH1 's lists of the `` 100 महानतम कलाकारों of All Time ''.
They were also क्रमित number 16 on vh1 's `` 100 Greatest Artists of Hard Rock ''.
Hairspray is a 1988 कॉमेडी फिल्मी लिखा and directed by John waters, और starring ricki झील, Sonny बोनो, डिब्बी Harry, माइकल st. जेरार्ड, shawn थॉम्पसन, Colleen Fitzpatrick, जेरी stiller, और in his last फिल्मी भूमिका, दैवी.
hairspray was a dramatic प्रस्थान इससे waters ' पहले works, साथ a much broader intended दर्शक.
in fact, Hairsprays pg is the mildest rating a Waters फिल्मी has received ; सबसे of उसके पिछला films यहूद रेटेड x by the MPAA.
नियत in 1962 Baltimore, मेरीलैंड, the फिल्मी revolves around self-proclaimed `` pleasantly plump '' किशोरावस्था Tracy turnblad as वो pursues स्टारडम as a नर्तकी on a लोकल tv show और rallies विरूद्ध जातिगत segregation.
Hairspray थी तभी a moderate कामयाबी upon इसके initial theatrical रिलीज, earning a modest सकल of $ 8 लाख.
However, it प्रबंधित to आकर्षित a larger दर्शक on home video in the early 1990s and became a cult classic.
सबसे आलोचकों praised the फिल्मी, although some यहूद displeased साथ the overall campiness.
in 2002, the फिल्मी थी adapted into a Broadway musical of the वही नाम, which जीती आठ टोनी Awards, सहित Best musical in 2003.
a second film version of hairspray, an adaptation of the stage musical, थी also released by New Line सिनेमा in 2007, जिससे शामिल अनेक परिवर्तन of scripted वस्तुएं from the original.
the film also बाँधने # 444 on Empire magazine 's 2008 list of the 500 greatest फिल्मों of सब time.
A Christian denomination is an identifiable religious body अंतर्गत a common नाम, ढांचा, and doctrine भीतर christianity.
Some groups included do नहीं consider themselves a denomination ( e.g., the Catholic Church considers itself the एक true गिरिजाघर और the अपोस्टोलिक देखिए, और as pre-denominational ).
कुछ समूह viewed by non-adherents as denominational actively resist होने पुकारा a denomination और do not have कोई formal denominational structure, authority, or record-keeping परे the local congregation ; अनेक groups within बहाली गति पतन into इस श्रेणी.
कुछ groups are विशाल ( e.g. catholics, Lutherans, Anglicans or baptists ), जबकि अन्य are just a few छोटी churches, और in सबसे मामले the relative आकार is नहीं evident in this list.
आधुनिक movements ऐसे as Fundamentalist christianity, Pietism, Evangelicalism, pentecostalism and the पवित्रता गति sometimes cross denominational lines, or in कुछ cases create new denominations out of two or अधिक continuing groups, ( as is the case for many United और uniting चर्च, for उदाहरण ).
Such subtleties और complexities are नहीं clearly चित्रित here.
प्रमुख विभाजन within christianity.
नोट : This is नहीं a complete सूची, लकिन aims to provide a comprehensible overview of the विविधता among denominations of Christianity.
as वहीँ are reported to be approximately 41,000 Christian denominations, अनेक of which can नहीं be सत्यापित to be significant, only those denominations साथ विकिपीडिया आलेख होगा be listed in अनुक्रम to ensure कि सब प्रविष्टियां on इस सूची हैं notable और verifiable.
Between denominations, theologians, और तुलनात्मक religionists there are considerable disagreements परिचय which groups can be properly पुकारा Christian, मतभिन्नता arising primarily इससे doctrinal मतभेद between groups.
For the purpose of simplicity, इस सूची is intended to प्रतिबिंबित the self-understanding of प्रत्येक denomination.
स्पष्टीकरण of different राय concerning उनके औकात as ईसाई denominations can be मिला at उनके respective आलेख.
वहीँ is no official मान्यता in most parts of the संसार for धार्मिक bodies, and वहीँ is no आधिकारिक clearinghouse जिससे could determine the status or respectability of धार्मिक bodies.
Often वहीँ is considerable disagreement between विभिन्न churches परिचय whether अन्य churches should be labeled with pejorative शर्तें ऐसे as `` cult '', or परिचय whether इस or कि समूह enjoys कुछ माप of respectability.
Such considerations प्रायः vary इससे प्लेस to प्लेस, जहाँ एक religious group may enjoy बहुमत status in one प्रदेश, लकिन be widely regarded as a `` खतरनाक cult '' in another भाग of the संसार.
समावेश on इस सूची करता नहीं indicate कोई निर्णय परिचय the आकार, महत्व, or अक्षर of a समूह or इसके members.
1804 मैप of `` louisiana ``, edged on the वेस्ट by the Rocky Mountains.
The Louisiana खरीदें ( `` बिक्री of Louisiana '' ) was the अधिग्रहण by the संयुक्त राज्य of America in 1803 of of फ़्रांस 's अर्जी to the territory of Louisiana.
the U.S. सशुल्क 50 लाख francs ( $ 11,250,000 ) प्लस रद्दीकरण of debts worth 18 लाख francs ( $ 3,750,000 ), लिये a total sum of 15 million dollars ( less than 3 cents प्रति acre ) for the louisiana territory ( $ लाख in डॉलर, कम than 42 सेंट प्रति एकड़ ).
The louisiana territory encompassed सब or भाग of 15 present u.S. राज्य and two Canadian provinces.
the land purchased contained सब of present-day अरकंसास, मिसौरी, आयोवा, ओक्लाहोमा, कान्सास, and नेब्रास्का ; भाग of मिनेसोटा कि were वेस्ट of the मिसिसिपी नदी ; सबसे of North डकोटा ; सबसे of दक्षिण डकोटा ; northeastern नई Mexico ; उत्तरी Texas ; the portions of मोंटाना, व्योमिंग, and कोलोराडो east of the महाद्वीपीय divide ; louisiana west of the मिसिसिपी River, सहित the city of New Orleans ; और small portions of land that would आखिरकार become भाग of the Canadian provinces of अलबर्टा and Saskatchewan.
फ़्रांस नियंत्रित इस vast क्षेत्रफल from 1699 जबतक 1762, the साल it gave the territory to इसके ally स्पेन.
अंतर्गत नेपोलियन बोनापार्ट, France took back the territory in 1800 in the hope of building an साम्राज्य in North अमेरिका.
a slave विद्रोह in Haiti और an impending war साथ ब्रिटेन, however, led फ़्रांस to abandon ये plans और sell the संपूर्ण territory to the United States, who था originally intended तभी to seek the खरीदें of नई Orleans और इसके सटा lands.
the खरीदें of the territory of louisiana took प्लेस दौरान the प्रेसिडेंसी of थामस Jefferson.
at the time, the खरीदें faced घरेलू opposition क्युकी it थी thought to be असंवैधानिक.
हालांकि he सहमत that the U.S. संविधान किया नहीं contain provisions लिये acquiring territory, जेफरसन decided to go ahead with the खरीदें anyway in order to हटाएँ फ़्रांस 's presence in the region and to protect दोनो U.S. व्यापार अभिगम to the बंदरगाहों of New Orleans and फ़्री ड्योढ़ी on the मिसिसिपी River.
रस्म at प्लेस d'Armes, नई ऑरलियन्स अंकन ट्रांसफ़र of louisiana to the संयुक्त States, 10 March 1804, as depicted by thure de thulstrup.
`` कूल झटका '' is a popular सोंग लिखा by डोनाल्ड Storball and originally performed by The capitols.
Released in 1966, it reached No. 2 on the American r & b chart और No. 7 on the पॉप चार्ट.
the backing track for इस सोंग थी दरअसल अंकित ( secretly ) by the motown house band The Funk भाइयो.
Per one of the दुर्गंध भाइयो, the सोंग थी originally to be called `` pimp झटका. ''
This थी taken इससे watching पड़ोस pimps, जो होता dance in the क्लब, लकिन यहूद too `` कूल '' to do the झटका जैसे regular folks.
उनके संस्करण was subsequently नामित `` the pimp झटका. ''
the निर्माता थी भयभीत कि a सोंग साथ the word pimp in the शीर्षक होता be banned or नहीं प्राप्त much positive ध्यान, और था the शीर्षक बदला to its current रूप.
the Go-Go 's, Todd rundgren, बिग Trouble, इंसान यौन Response, the la de Da 's, the सृष्टि, and the coasters have covered the सोंग.
टॉड Rundgren किया उसके संस्करण in an विषम समय signature ( 7/4 ), giving an obviously jerky महसूस to the सोंग.
the Go-Go 's covered the सोंग लिये उनके 1982 एल्बम Vacation और बाद re-recorded it लिये उनके 1990 एल्बम Greatest.
In the feature फिल्मी Home अलोन 2 : खोया in नई York, Uncle फ़्रैंक ( gerry bamman ) sings `` कूल झटका '' in the बरसात.
a version of the song साथ अलग lyrics ( `` do the कूल चाबुक '' ) is प्रयुक्त in कूल चाबुक commercials.
a रिकॉर्डिंग of `` Cool झटका '' by रिकार्डो Ray is प्रदर्शित in the विशेषता फिल्मी donnie Brasco ( 1997 ).
the सोंग सुविधाएँ in the फिल्मी खड़ा in the Shadows of Motown, performed by the दुर्गंध भाइयो साथ सीसे vocals by Bootsy Collins.
the song is सुना briefly in the animated feature, Madagascar 3 : Europe 's सबसे चाही.
despite इस reason, it is listed in some variations of the film 's soundtrack.
A लीग is a ईकाई of length ( or, rarely, area ).
it थी long common in Europe और Latin America, लकिन it is no longer an आधिकारिक ईकाई in कोई स्वदेश.
the लीग originally referred to the अलहदा a person could चलना in an घंटा.
Since the Middle आयु, अनेक values have been निर्दिष्ट in अनेक countries.
in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of nautical दूरियाँ, the 3 मील ( 4.8 km ) अलहदा corresponds to कैसा दूर an observer of average ऊँचाई ( 5'9 '' or 1.78 m ) can देखिए when खड़ा at sea level.
यूँ, a ship traveling one `` लीग '' रै पहुँचे what थी previously the farthest visible अलहदा on the क्षितिज.
the lack of a ऐतिहासिक और वैश्विक standard लिये the exact माप of a `` लीग '' can be accounted for by the variable elevation of the निरीक्षक ( i.e., sightings from a ship 's deck vs. masthead ).
the Irish राज्य आए into being in 1922 as the Irish फ़्री राज्य, a dominion of the अंग्रेजों Commonwealth, having seceded इससे the United किंगडम अंतर्गत the anglo-irish सन्धि.
it comprises 26 of Ireland 's 32 काउंटी.
चूंकि 1949 it has existed as the Republic of Ireland.
इससे इसके न्यास, the आयरिश Free State थी embroiled in a सिविल war between राष्ट्रवादियों supporting the Treaty और opponents जो समर्थित a गणतंत्र.
the pro-Treaty पक्ष, संगठित as cumann na nGaedheal उभरा victorious इससे the conflict और won subsequent elections.
वे formed the सरकारी of the राज्य until 1932, when वे peacefully handed over power to the anti-Treaty faction in fianna Fáil, जो defeated उन्हें in an election.
the Irish state, despite इसके violent beginnings, has remained a उदार लोकतंत्र throughout इसके existence.
a new संविधान in 1937 removed अनेक of the कड़ी with Britain स्थापित अंतर्गत the सन्धि और Ireland 's neutrality in the दूसरी संसार War demonstrated its स्वतंत्रता in foreign policy matters इससे ब्रिटेन.
In 1948 आयरलैंड formally left the अंग्रेजों Commonwealth और अपनाया the शीर्षक of `` Republic ''.
in the economic गोला, the आयरिश राज्य has had a मिश्रित प्रदर्शन.
on स्वतंत्रता, it थी एक of the wealthier देशों in Europe per head of population.
however it also inherited from अंग्रेजों rule the समस्याएं of बेरोजगारी, emigration, uneven भौगोलिक विकास और कमी of a native industrial आधार.
For much of इसके history, the राज्य struggled to rectify these समस्याएं.
Particular peaks of करणों were अंकित दौरान the लेट 1930s, 1950s and 1980s, when the आयरिश अर्थव्यवस्था अंकित little विकास.
in the 1930s, fianna fáil सरकारें attempted to create आयरिश domestic उद्योग using subsidies और सुरक्षात्मक tarifs.
in the लेट 1950s, these नीतियों यहूद dropped in पक्ष of free व्यापार साथ चयनित countries और encouraging of foreign investment साथ low taxes.
इस थी विस्तारित when आयरलैंड entered the European आर्थिक Community in 1972.
in the 1990s and 2000s, Ireland अनुभवी an आर्थिक बूम ज्ञात as the सेल्टिक बाघ, in जिससे the country 's GDP surpassed अनेक of इसके यूरोपीय पड़ोसी.
Immigration भी surpassed emigration, bringing the राज्य 's जनसांख्यिकी up to over 4 लाख.
however, चूंकि 2008, आयरलैंड has experienced a कठोर crisis in the बैंकिंग सेक्टर और साथ sovereign कर्ज़.
the resultant economic slump has deepened the प्रभाव of the संसार recession on आयरलैंड.
इससे 1937 to 1998, the आयरिश संविधान शामिल a claim on उत्तरी आयरलैंड as a भाग of the नेशनल territory.
however, the राज्य also opposed and प्रयुक्त its सुरक्षा forces against those armed समूह - principally the Provisional Irish Republican फौज, जो tried to एकजुट आयरलैंड by फ़ोर्स.
इस occurred in the 1950s, throughout the 1970s and 1980s और रै जारी on a घटाया scale.
आयरिश सरकारें meanwhile आजमाया to दलाली an agreement to the विरोध ज्ञात as the Troubles within उत्तरी Ireland इससे 1968 to the लेट 1990s.
the अंग्रेजों सरकारी officially recognised the सही of the आयरिश सरकारी to be a party to the Northern negotiations in the Anglo-Irish Agreement of 1985.
in 1998, as भाग of the शुभ Friday अनुबंध, the आयरिश संविधान थी altered by referendum to हटाएँ the territorial claim to उत्तरी Ireland और instead extend the सही of Irish नागरिकता to all the people of the island should वे wish to have it.
जॉन क्विंसी एडम्स ( July 11, 1767february 23, 1848 ) थी the छठे अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1825–1829 ).
he परोसा as अमरीकी diplomat, सीनेटर, और Congressional प्रतिनिधि.
he थी a member of the federalist, Democratic-Republican, नेशनल रिपब्लिकन, और later anti-masonic और Whig पार्टियों.
Adams was the बेटे of पूर्व President John एडम्स and Abigail एडम्स.
As a diplomat, Adams played an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in negotiating many अंतरराष्ट्रीय treaties, सबसे notably the Treaty of ghent, which ended the War of 1812.
As Secretary of राज्य, he negotiated साथ the संयुक्त Kingdom over America 's northern border साथ Canada, negotiated साथ Spain the annexation of Florida, and authored the मुनरो doctrine.
Historians agree he was एक of the greatest राजनयिकों और secretaries of राज्य in अमरीकी history.
as president, he sought to modernize the American economy और प्रचारित education.
Adams enacted a भाग of उसके agenda and paid off much of the national कर्ज़.
he थी stymied by a Congress controlled by his enemies, और उसके lack of patronage संजाल helped politicians eager to undercut उसे.
He खोया उसके 1828 bid for re-election to Andrew Jackson.
In doing so, he became the first अध्यक्ष चूंकि his पिता to serve a single पद.
Adams is best known as a diplomat जो तराशा अमेरिका 's विदेशी नीति in लकीर साथ उसके ardently nationalist commitment to अमेरिका 's republican मान.
More recently Howe ( 2007 ) portrayed एडम्स as the exemplar and moral leader in an era of modernization.
During Adams ' lifetime, technological नवप्रवर्तनों and नई अर्थात् of communication स्प्रेड संदेश of धार्मिक revival, social सुधार, and party politics.
goods, money, और लोगों traveled अधिक rapidly और efficiently than कभी पहले.
एडम्स थी निर्वाचित a U.S. प्रतिनिधि from Massachusetts बाद leaving दफ्तर, सेवारत for the पिछला 17 सालो of उसके जीवन साथ far वृहद acclamation than he था achieved as अध्यक्ष.
He is, so दूर, the तभी अध्यक्ष later elected to the United राज्य हाउस of Representatives ( though John Tyler was elected to the हाउस of Representatives of the Confederate राज्य just पहले उसके death in 1862 ).
Animated by his growing revulsion विरूद्ध slavery, एडम्स became a leading प्रतिद्वन्दी of the स्लेव Power.
he predicted कि if a civil war यहूद to break आउट, the अध्यक्ष could abolish गुलामी by using उसके युद्ध शक्तियां.
Adams भी पूर्वानुमानित the Union 's dissolution over the गुलामी समस्या, लकिन said that if the South became स्वतंत्र वहीँ होता be a श्रेणी of खूनी स्लेव revolts.
खिड़कियाँ Internet Explorer 9 ( IE9 ) is a version of the अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर वेब ब्राउजर इससे Microsoft.
It थी released to the पब्लिक on कूच 14, 2011.
microsoft रै released Internet Explorer 9 as a प्रमुख out-of-band version कि is not tied to the रिलीज अनुसूची of कोई particular version of खिड़कियाँ, unlike पिछला versions.
it is the पहला version चूंकि अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर 2 to नहीं be bundled साथ a खिड़कियाँ operating प्रणाली, हालांकि कुछ oems have संस्थापित it with खिड़कियाँ 7 on their pcs, as खूब as नई Windows 7 लैपटॉप.
The प्रणाली आवश्यकताएँ for Internet एक्सप्लोरर 9 हैं खिड़कियाँ 7, खिड़कियाँ सर्वर 2008 r2, Windows विस्टा सेवा पैक 2 or खिड़कियाँ Server 2008 SP2 साथ the मंच Update.
खिड़कियाँ xp और earlier हैं नहीं supported.
अंतरजाल Explorer 9 is the पिछला संस्करण of अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर to be supported on खिड़कियाँ विस्टा.
Both IA-32 और x64 builds हैं उपलब्धियाँ.
अंतरजाल Explorer 9 supports अनेक CSS 3 गुण, embedded ICC v2 or v4 color profiles support via Windows रंग प्रणाली, और रै improved JavaScript performance.
It is the पिछला of the five प्रमुख web browsers to implement support लिये स्केलेबल Vector ग्राफिक्स ( svg ).
it also सुविधाएँ hardware-accelerated graphics रेंडरिंग using direct2d, hardware-accelerated टेक्स्ट रेंडरिंग using directwrite, hardware-accelerated वीडियो रेंडरिंग using Media Foundation, इमेजिंग support provided by Windows Imaging Component, और ऊँची fidelity printing संचालित by the xml Paper Specification ( xps ) छपाई पाइपलाइन.
Internet एक्सप्लोरर 9 भी supports the html5 video and ऑडियो टैग and the Web खोलें फ़ॉन्ट स्वरूप.
alka-seltzer is an effervescent antacid और पीड़ा reliever पहला marketed by the Dr. Miles आयुर्विज्ञान कम्पनी.
It थी विकसित by Maurice treener, सिर chemist at मील, in elkhart, इंडियाना.
alka-seltzer is marketed लिये relief of नाबालिग aches, pains, सूजन, fever, सिरदर्द, heartburn, खट्टा पेट, अपच, और hangovers, while neutralizing excess पेट एसिड.
It थी शुभारम्भ in 1931.
a spin-off of alka-seltzer made to relieve colds और फ्लू, alka-seltzer प्लस, was later introduced.
A short-lived antacid non-aspirin variant, Alka-Mints, थी introduced in 1994 और discontinued in 1997.
alka-seltzer is currently owned by Bayer schering फार्मा AG, जर्मनी.
The name `` alka-seltzer '' has महरूम विस्तारित to incorporate an entire line of medications बेची over the काउंटर और लिया by अर्थात् of rapidly dissolving टैबलेट कि रूप a carbonated solution in water.
चेरी अलका seltzer प्लस टैब्लेट dissolving in जल
Image प्रर्दशित the six सबसे आम speleothems साथ लेबल्स.
enlarge to दृश्य labels.
a stalactite (, ; इससे the यूनानी stalasso, ( σταλάσσω ), `` to ड्रिप '', और meaning `` कि जिससे drips '' ) is a प्रकार of speleothem ( द्वितीयक खनिज ) that hangs इससे the छत of चूना caves.
it is a प्रकार of dripstone.
The सम्बन्धित गठन on the मंजिल of the गुफा is ज्ञात as a stalagmite.
उपाधि abbreviations हैं प्रयुक्त as an वैकल्पिक way to बताएँ an अकादमिक उपाधि बजाय of स्पेलिंग out the शीर्षक in पूरा, ऐसे as in reference किताबे जैसे Who 's जो and on कारोबार cards.
Many डिग्री have more than एक abbreviation.
in the uk, it is not generally the custom to punctuate abbreviations for डिग्री with full stops ( e.g. `` BSc '' बल्कि than `` b.sc. ``.
रेस is a वर्गीकरण system used to categorize humans into large and distinct populations or groups by anatomical, सांस्कृतिक, जातीय, जेनेटिक, geographical, ऐतिहासिक, भाषाई, religious, or social संबद्ध.
पहला प्रयुक्त to denote नेशनल संबद्धों, the term began to be प्रयुक्त to सुनाना to शारीरिक traits in the 17th सदी.
in the जल्दी 20th century the पद थी प्रायः used, in a taxonomic भाव, to denote genetically differentiated इंसान populations defined by phenotype.
जबकि biologists sometimes use the अवधारणा of रेस to मेक भेद among फजी सेट of traits, others in the वैज्ञानिक community suggest कि the विचार of race प्रायः is used in a भोली or simplistic way, i.e. कि among इंसानो, रेस has no taxonomic significance : all living humans belong to the वही प्रजाति, Homo sapiens and subspecies, Homo sapiens sapiens.
Social conceptions and groupings of races vary over time, involving लोक taxonomies
that define of individuals आधारित on आभास traits.
वैज्ञानिकों consider biological essentialism obsolete, and generally discourage जातिगत explanations for सामूहिक differentiation in both शारीरिक और behavioral traits.
Since the second half of the 20th सदी the associations of रेस साथ the ideologies and theories कि grew आउट of the work of 19th-century anthropologists and physiologists रै led to the use of the शब्द रेस itself becoming समस्यापूर्ण.
हालांकि still used in general contexts, it is now often replaced by अन्य words जिससे हैं less अस्पष्ट और emotionally charged, ऐसे as populations, people ( s ), जातीय समूह or communities depending on context.
लुसी स्टोन ( अगस्त 13, 1818 – October 19, 1893 ) थी a prominent American abolitionist और suffragist, and a vocal एडवोकेट and आयोजक promoting अधिकारों लिये women.
In 1847, Stone became the first स्त्री इससे मैसाचुसेट्स to earn a कॉलेज उपाधि.
वो spoke आउट लिये महिलाओं 's अधिकारों and विरूद्ध गुलामी at a time when women यहूद हतोत्साहित और prevented इससे public speaking.
स्टोन थी the first recorded अमरीकी स्त्री to retain उसके अपना पिछला name after marriage.
Stone 's organizational activities for the कारण of women 's अधिकारों yielded tangible gains in the difficult राजनैतिक environment of the 19th सदी.
Stone helped initiate the पहला नेशनल महिलाओं 's अधिकारों Convention और she supported और sustained it annually साथ with a number of other लोकल, राज्य और क्षेत्रीय activist conventions.
Stone spoke in सामने of a क्रमांक of legislative लाशें to promote कानून giving अधिक rights to women.
She assisted in establishing the Woman 's नेशनल वफ़ादार लीग to सहायता pass the Thirteenth amendment और thereby abolish गुलामी, बाद जिससे वो helped form the largest समूह of like-minded महिलाओं 's rights reformers, the नीतियां मॉडरेट अमरीकी स्त्री suffrage संघ, which worked लिये दशकों at the state स्तर in favor of women 's सही to vote.
Stone wrote extensively परिचय a चौड़ी range of women 's rights, publishing और distributing speeches by herself and अन्य, and सम्मेलन proceedings.
In the long-running and influential Woman 's जर्नल, a साप्ताहिक periodical कि she स्थापित और प्रचारित, स्टोन aired दोनो her अपना and differing views परिचय women 's rights.
Called `` the orator '' and `` the morning स्टार of the स्त्री 's rights movement '', स्टोन delivered a वाक जिससे sparked सुसान B. एंथोनी to take up the cause of महिलाओं 's suffrage.
Elizabeth Cady stanton लिखा that `` लुसी स्टोन थी the first person by जिसको the दिल of the American public थी deeply stirred on the स्त्री question. ''
साथ, एंथोनी, stanton, और Stone have been called the 19th century `` triumvirate `` of महिलाओं 's suffrage and feminism.
In वित्त, a बंध is an यंत्र of indebtedness of the बंध issuer to the holders.
It is a कर्ज़ security, अंतर्गत which the जारीकर्ता owes the धारकों a कर्ज़ and, depending on the terms of the बंध, is obliged to अदा उन्हें interest ( the कूपन ) or to repay the प्रिंसिपल at a later तिथि, termed the maturity.
Interest is प्रायः payable at fixed intervals ( semiannual, सालाना, sometimes मासिक ).
बहुत प्रायः the bond is परक्राम्य, i.e. the ownership of the यंत्र can be transferred in the secondary मार्केट.
यूँ a बंध is a रूप of ऋण or iou : the होल्डर of the बंध is the lender ( creditor ), the issuer of the bond is the borrower ( debtor ), and the coupon is the ब्याज.
bonds provide the borrower with बाह्य निधि to finance long-term investments, or, in the मामला of सरकारी bonds, to finance current व्यय.
प्रमाणपत्र of जमा ( CDs ) or छोटी पद वाणिज्यिक paper are माना to be धन मार्केट instruments और नहीं bonds : the प्रमुख अंतर is in the length of the पद of the instrument.
bonds और stocks हैं both प्रतिभूति, लकिन the major अंतर between the दो is that ( पूंजी ) stockholders have an इक्विटी stake in the company ( i.e. they हैं owners ), whereas bondholders have a creditor हिस्सेदारी in the कम्पनी ( i.e. वे हैं lenders ).
another अंतर is कि bonds प्रायः have a पारिभाषित पद, or परिपक्वता, बाद जिससे the bond is redeemed, whereas stocks may be बकाया indefinitely.
An एक्सेप्शन is an irredeemable bond, such as Consols, which is a perpetuity, i.e. a बंध with no maturity.
a scale मॉडल of the Tower of London.
इस मॉडल can be मिला inside the मीनार.
Scale मॉडल of जल संचालित turbine
l to r with 12 inch ruler at नीचे : 1:64 matchbox शेवरलेट tahoe, 1:43 घाट f-100, 1:25 Revell Monogram 1999 घाट mustang कोबरा, 1:18 bburago 1987 फेरारी F40
मॉडल ships और castle
A स्केल मॉडल is a शारीरिक मॉडल, a representation or नक़ल of an ऑब्जेक्ट कि is larger or smaller than the actual size of the ऑब्जेक्ट, which seeks to maintain the सापेक्ष proportions ( the scale factor ) of the physical आकार of the original ऑब्जेक्ट.
बहुत प्रायः the स्केल मॉडल is प्रयुक्त as a मार्गदर्शिका to बनाना the object in full आकार.
स्केल मॉडल are निर्मित or एकत्रित लिये many कारण.
the Zune hd was a portable मीडिया player in the zune product family released on सितंबर 15, 2009 by Microsoft.
It was a सीधा competitor साथ the ठहराना ipod and iPhone श्रेणी of मोबाईल devices.
It was initially released in 16 and 32 gb capacities.
a 64 gb संस्करण was released on April 9, 2010.
it utilized a टचस्क्रीन interface for नेविगेशन और शामिल Wi-Fi for तुल्यकालन, अभिगम to the Zune Marketplace और वेब ब्राउज़िंग.
the zune hd utilized the nvidia tegra apx 2600 चिप, allowing it to खेल 720p video through the वैकल्पिक HDMI Zune dock on a high-definition television.
Otherwise, सामग्री होता be scaled bas to 480x272 पिक्सेल on the player 's oled टचस्क्रीन.
बूढ़ा Sparky, the electric कुर्सी प्रयुक्त at गाओ Sing थाना
निष्पादन by electrocution, प्रायः performed using an इलेक्ट्रिक chair, is an निष्पादन method originating in the संयुक्त राज्य in which the condemned व्यक्ति is strapped to a specially निर्मित wooden chair and electrocuted through electrodes placed on the देह.
इस execution विधि थी created by employees of थामस Edison दौरान the War of Currents, and has महरूम used तभी in the United राज्य और, लिये a काल of several decades, in the फिलीपीन ( its पहला use वहीँ in 1924 under अमरीकी occupation, पिछला in 1976 ).
historically, एकबार the condemned person was संलग्न to the chair, विभिन्न चक्र ( differing in voltage और duration ) of alternating वर्तमान would be passed through the व्यक्तिगत 's देह, in अनुक्रम to कारण fatal damage to the आतंरिक अंगों ( सहित the brain ).
the first jolt of इलेक्ट्रिक वर्तमान थी designed to कारण immediate unconsciousness और brain death ; the दूसरी एक थी designed to कारण fatal क्षति to the vital organs.
Death was अक्सर caused by विद्युत overstimulation of the दिल.
Although in the United States the इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी has become a symbol of the मौत दंड, इसके उपयोग is in मनाही due to the वृद्धि of lethal इंजेक्शन, which is widely believed to be a अधिक humane method of निष्पादन.
हालांकि some राज्य still maintain electrocution as a method of निष्पादन, आज it is only कायम as a द्वितीयक method that may be चुनी over lethal injection at the request of the prisoner.
as of 2010, electrocution is an वैकल्पिक रूप of निष्पादन in Alabama, Florida, दक्षिण कैरोलिना और वर्जिनिया.
They allow the कैदी to चुनें lethal इंजेक्शन as an वैकल्पिक विधि.
in the states of केंटकी और टेनेसी, the इलेक्ट्रिक chair has महरूम retired मगर लिये those whose पूंजी crimes यहूद वचनबद्ध prior to legislated तिथियाँ in 1998 ( केंटकी : कूच 31, 1998 ; Tennessee : दिसम्बर 31, 1998 ) and who chose electrocution.
in दोनो राज्य, inmates जो do नहीं choose electrocution or inmates जो वचनबद्ध उनके अपराधों after the designated तिथि are killed by lethal इंजेक्शन.
the इलेक्ट्रिक chair is an वैकल्पिक रूप of execution approved for संभावित use in अरकंसास and ओक्लाहोमा if अन्य फ़ॉर्म of execution हैं found असंवैधानिक in the राज्य at the time of निष्पादन.
it is the sole विधि of execution in Vermont, where treason is the तभी capital अपराधों.
On फ़रवरी 8, 2008, the नेब्रास्का परम् Court determined कि निष्पादन by इलेक्ट्रिक chair was a `` cruel और unusual punishment '' under the राज्य 's संविधान.
इस brought executions of इस type to an end in नेब्रास्का, the तभी बाकी state to retain electrocution as its एकमात्र विधि of निष्पादन for murder.
The Maryland हाउस of Delegates is the निम्नतर house of the सामान्य सभा, the राज्य legislature of the American State of Maryland, and is रचित of 141 delegates निर्वाचित इससे 47 districts.
The हाउस of delegates कक्ष is स्तिथ in the Maryland State हाउस ( state कैपिटल ) on राज्य Circle in annapolis, जिससे is the राज्य पूंजी.
the राज्य हाउस also houses the मेरीलैंड राज्य सीनेट कक्ष and the offices of the राज्यपाल और लेफ्टिनेंट Governor of the State of Maryland.
Each प्रतिनिधि has offices in annapolis, in the आसपास कैस्पर R. Taylor, Jr. हाउस दफ्तर भवन.
the मुक्ति of Paris ( भी known as the बैटल for Paris ) took प्लेस during संसार युद्ध ii इससे 19 अगस्त 1944 until the आत्मसमर्पण of the occupying जर्मनी garrison on 25 अगस्त.
the Liberation of पेरिस प्रारंभ साथ an uprising by the French प्रतिरोध विरूद्ध the जर्मनी गैरीसन.
on 24 August, the फ्रेंच Forces of the आंतरिक ( शक्तियां françaises de l'intérieur, FFI ) प्राप्त सुदृढीकरण इससे the Free French फौज of मुक्ति और from the U.S. तीसरा फौज अंतर्गत General Patton.
The capital प्रदेश of फ़्रांस था महरूम governed by Nazi Germany चूंकि the हस्ताक्षर of the Second Compiègne armistice in जून 1940, जब the German फौज occupied उत्तरी और westernmost France, and जब the puppet शासन of Vichy France थी स्थापित in the कस्बा of vichy in सेंट्रल फ़्रांस.
This बैटल marked the मुक्ति of Paris and the निर्वासन of the vichy सरकारी to sigmaringen in Germany.
however, वहीँ थी स्टिल much heavy लड़ to be किया पहले फ़्रांस was liberated, सहित the अभियान in दक्षिणी फ़्रांस दौरान august-september ( in Provence और extending into the southwestern प्रदेश of the Vosges kyu ), साथ the german-held seaports of western फ़्रांस ( ऐसे as at brest और dunkirk ), in alsace और लोरेन in पूर्वी फ़्रांस, and in northeastern फ़्रांस, such as साथ the Rhine और Moder नदियाँ.
The जर्मनी फौज और SS लड़ा doggedly in these areas लिये the remainder of 1944 और into 1945.
`` Feelin ' alright ? '' भी known as `` Feeling alright '' is a सोंग लिखा by Dave Mason of the अंग्रेज़ी चट्टान बैंड ट्रैफ़िक from उनके eponymous 1968 एल्बम, ट्रैफ़िक.
The सोंग थी also a hit सिंगल for अनेक performers : जो cocker ( 1969, # 69, recharted in 1972, us # 33 ), mongo Santamaría ( 1969, # 95 ) और Grand Funk Railroad ( 1971, us # 54 ).
it रै भी महरूम अंकित by Three श्वान Night ( 1969 ), the 5th आयाम ( 1970 ), लू Rawls, फ्रेडी किंग, पॉल weller, lulu, Chairmen of the Board ( 1970 ), Rare धरती, the Electric अवधारणा ऑर्केस्ट्रा, Mother 's finest ( 1973 ), The ओहियो Players ( 1971 ), Diana रॉस with the जैक्सन 5 ( 1971 ), Maceo पार्कर, gladys नाईट & the Pips, फैली दहशत और the Black Crowes.
A स्टील ढोल संस्करण by Trinidad आयल कम्पनी थी reissued on the dancefloor जैज़ संकलन ब्लू रस 2.
It थी भी प्रदर्शित in the 2000 film duets, सुंग by huey Lewis.
दोनो the असली और the जो Cocker कवर were प्रदर्शित in the फिल्म उड़ान, starring Denzel वॉशिंगटन.
देवों Werkheiser ( born कूच 8,1991 ) is an अमरीकी actor, voice actor, सिंगर, songwriter and musician, बेहतरीन ज्ञात for his अभिनीत भूमिका as ned bigby on the निकलोडियन sitcom ned 's declassified स्कूल अस्तित्व Guide और for उसके भूमिका in the 2007 tv Movie shredderman नियम, as the lead अक्षर Nolan byrd.
werkheiser also निभाई पीटर Parkes in the fourth and final season of the एबीसी परिवार show Greek.
Sample view of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक health record आधारित on images
Sample view of an electronic स्वास्थ्य रिकार्ड
An इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य रिकार्ड ( ehr ) is an evolving अवधारणा पारिभाषित as a systematic संग्रहण of electronic स्वास्थ्य information परिचय व्यक्तिगत मरीजों or populations.
it is a record in digital स्वरूप कि is theoretically सक्षम of being shared across अलग health परवाह जमावट.
in कुछ मामले इस sharing can occur by way of network-connected enterprise-wide सूचना systems और other सूचना networks or exchanges.
ehrs may include a दायरा of आंकड़ा, including जनसांख्यिकी, चिकित्सा इतिहास, medication और allergies, immunization औकात, प्रयोगशाला test परिणाम, radiology images, vital लक्षण, personal stats जैसे age and weight, and billing information.
ऋण origination is the प्रक्रम by which a borrower applies for a new ऋण, और a lender प्रक्रियाओं that अनुप्रयोग.
Origination generally शामिल all the steps from लेने a ऋण application up to disbursal of funds ( or घटती the application ).
Loan सर्विसिंग कवर सबकुछ बाद disbursing the funds जबतक the loan is fully सशुल्क बंद.
ऋण origination is a specialized version of नई account opening लिये financial services संगठन.
निश्चित people और organizations specialize in loan origination.
Mortgage brokers और other बंधक originator कंपनियाँ serve as a prominent उदाहरण.
वहीँ हैं many different प्रकार of लोन.
लिये अधिक सूचना on loan types, देखिए the loan and उपभोक्ता lending articles.
Steps शामिल in originating a loan vary by loan type, various kinds of loan रिस्क, regulator, lender नीति, और अन्य factors.
Top left : the टेनेसी घाटी प्राधिकार, भाग of the नई सौदे, being signed into विधि in 1933.
शीर्ष सही : फ्रैंकलिन Delano Roosevelt, who was responsible लिये initiatives और programs collectively ज्ञात as the नई सौदे.
नीचे : a public mural इससे एक of the कलाकारों employed by the नई सौदे.
the New Deal थी a series of आर्थिक कार्यक्रम enacted in the संयुक्त राज्य between 1933 and 1936.
वे शामिल अध्यक्षीय executive orders or कानून passed by कॉंग्रेस दौरान the पहला पद of अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट.
The programs were in जवाब to the Great अवसाद, और केन्द्रित on what इतिहासकारों call the `` 3 rs '' : Relief, रिकवरी, और सुधार.
That is Relief for the unemployed और poor ; रिकवरी of the economy to सामान्य levels ; and सुधार of the वित्तीय प्रणाली to prevent a repeat अवसाद.
The New Deal produced a राजनैतिक realignment, making the Democratic Party the majority ( as well as the party कि held the White हाउस for सात आउट of नौ Presidential शर्तें from 1933 to 1969 ), साथ इसके base in उदार विचार, the श्वेत दक्षिण, परंपरागत Democrats, बिग city मशीने, और the newly empowered मजदूर संघ और जातीय अल्पसंख्यकों.
the Republicans were विभाजित, साथ conservatives opposing the entire New सौदे as an दुश्मन of कारोबार और growth, और liberals accepting some of it and promising to मेक it अधिक कुशल.
The realignment crystallized into the New सौदे गठबन्धन कि वर्चस्व most अध्यक्षीय elections into the 1960s, while the विपक्ष Conservative गठबन्धन largely नियंत्रित Congress इससे 1937 to 1963.
by 1936 the पद `` liberal '' typically was used लिये supporters of the New Deal, and `` conservative `` for its opponents.
इससे 1934 to 1938, Roosevelt थी assisted in his endeavours by a “pro-spender” majority in कॉंग्रेस ( drawn from two-party, प्रतिस्पर्धी, non-machine, प्रगतिशील, और बाएँ पार्टी जिले ).
As noted by सिकंदर हिक्स, “Roosevelt, समर्थित by विरल, non-southern डेमोक्रेट majorities — 270 non-Southern डेमोक्रेट प्रतिनिधि और 71 non-southern डेमोक्रेट senators — spelled दूसरी नई सौदे reform.”
अनेक इतिहासकारों फर्क between a `` पहला New सौदे '' ( 1933–34 ) and a `` दूसरी नई Deal '' ( 1935–38 ), साथ the दूसरी one more liberal और अधिक विवादास्पद.
The `` First New Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) dealt साथ diverse समूह, इससे banking and railroads to industry and खेती, सब of जिससे demanded सहायता for economic survival.
the Federal आपात राहत प्रशासन, लिये instance, provided $ 500 लाख लिये राहत परिचालन by states and शहरों, जबकि the short-lived cwa ( Civil Works प्रशासन ) दिया बस्तियों धन to operate make-work प्रोजेक्ट in 1933-34.
The `` दूसरी New Deal `` in 1935–38 included the वेगनर Act to प्रचार मजदूर संघ, the works Progress प्रशासन ( WPA ) राहत कार्यक्रम ( जिससे made the संघीय सरकारी by दूर the largest सिंगल employer in the nation ), the सोशल सुरक्षा अधिनियम, और नई कार्यक्रम to सहायता tenant farmers और migrant workers.
the फाइनल major items of New सौदे legislation यहूद the सृष्टि of the संयुक्त राज्य आवास प्राधिकार और Farm सुरक्षा प्रशासन, दोनो in 1937, और the Fair मजदूर Standards Act of 1938, जिससे नियत अधिकतम घंटों and न्यूनतम मजदूरी for सबसे श्रेणी of workers.
the आर्थिक downturn of 1937–38, and the कड़वा split between the afl और CIO मजदूर unions led to प्रमुख Republican gains in कॉंग्रेस in 1938.
रूढ़िवादी republicans और Democrats in कॉंग्रेस joined in the अनौपचारिक रूढ़िवादी गठबन्धन.
by 1942–43 वे shut bas राहत programs such as the wpa और ccc और अवरोधित प्रमुख उदार proposals.
Roosevelt खुद turned his ध्यान to the war प्रयत्न, और won reelection in 1940 और 1944.
the Supreme अदालत घोषित the National रिकवरी प्रशासन ( nra ) and the पहला संस्करण of the agricultural Adjustment Act ( AAA ) असंवैधानिक, however the aaa थी rewritten and then upheld.
As the first रिपब्लिकन अध्यक्ष निर्वाचित after fdr, ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर ( 1953–61 ) बाएँ the नई Deal largely intact, even expanding it in कुछ areas.
in the 1960s, Lyndon B. जॉनसन 's Great समाज used the नई सौदे as प्रेरणा for a नाटकीय विस्तार of उदार कार्यक्रम, which रिपब्लिकन रिचर्ड M. Nixon generally retained.
After 1974, however, the कॉल लिये deregulation of the अर्थव्यवस्था gained bipartisan support.
the नई Deal विनियमन of banking ( glass–steagall Act ) थी निलंबित in the 1990s.
अनेक नई Deal programs remain क्रियाशील, साथ कुछ स्टिल ऑपरेटिंग अंतर्गत the असली names, सहित the Federal जमा Insurance Corporation ( fdic ), the Federal क्रॉप Insurance Corporation ( fcic ), the संघीय Housing प्रशासन ( FHA ), और the टेनेसी Valley प्राधिकार ( TVA ).
the largest programs स्टिल in अस्तित्व आज हैं the सोशल सुरक्षा प्रणाली और the प्रतिभूति and एक्सचेंज Commission ( सेक ).
a स्त्री ( ), pl : women ( ) is a female इंसान.
The पद स्त्री is usually reserved for an वयस्क, साथ the पद लड़की होने the usual term लिये a female child or adolescent.
However, the पद स्त्री is also sometimes प्रयुक्त to identify a female इंसान, regardless of age, as in वाक्यांश ऐसे as `` महिलाओं 's अधिकारों ``.
महिलाओं हैं typically सक्षम of giving जनम, हालांकि पुरानी महिलाओं जो have गए through रजोनिवृत्ति and कुछ intersex women can नहीं.
`` I do n't Want to मिस a बात '' is a song performed by अमरीकी rock band Aerosmith लिये the 1998 फिल्मी Armageddon.
लिखा by डायने Warren, the सोंग debuted at क्रमांक एक on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 ( the पहला # 1 लिये the band after 28 years साथ ).
The सोंग ठहरे at क्रमांक एक लिये four सप्ताह from सितंबर 5 to September 26, 1998.
The सोंग also stayed at क्रमांक 1 लिये several weeks in अनेक अन्य देशों.
in the uk, the सोंग peaked at number चार, बनने एरोस्मिथ 's highest charting song in the uk, जहाँ it was the 17th best-selling single of 1998, and has sold over a लाख नक़ल.
हालांकि नहीं प्रयुक्त by the बहुमत of the संसार 's countries, daylight saving समय is common in the पश्चिमी संसार.
daylight saving time ( DST ) —also गर्मियाँ समय in British अंग्रेज़ी — is the practice of advancing घड़ियाँ दौरान the हल्का months so कि evenings have more daylight और mornings have कम.
typically clocks are adjusted आगे one hour निकट the प्रारंभ of spring and are समायोजित backward in autumn.
the आधुनिक विचार of daylight saving थी पहला proposed in 1895 by जार्ज vernon हडसन and it थी first implemented दौरान the पहला संसार युद्ध.
अनेक देशों have used it at विभिन्न टाइम्स चूंकि तब.
much of the United States प्रयुक्त DST in the 1950s and 1960s, and DST उपयोग विस्तारित following the 1970s energy crisis and रै been widely प्रयुक्त in उत्तर America and यूरोपीय since तब.
The practice has been दोनो praised और criticized.
Adding daylight to evenings लाभ retailing, खेल, and other क्रियाएँ that exploit धूप after working घंटों, लकिन can cause समस्याएं लिये evening entertainment and अन्य occupations tied to the sun.
हालांकि an जल्दी लक्ष्य of dst थी to reduce संध्या usage of incandescent lighting ( formerly a प्राथमिक use of electricity ), modern हीटिंग और कूलिंग उपयोग patterns differ greatly, and research about how dst currently affects energy use is सीमित or contradictory.
DST clock शिफ्ट उपस्थित अन्य चुनौतियां.
वे complicate timekeeping, and can disrupt बैठक, सफर, billing, record keeping, medical डिवाइस, भारी उपकरण, and नींद पैटर्न.
तन्त्र can प्रायः समायोजन कंप्यूटर घड़ियाँ automatically, लकिन इस can be सीमित और error-prone, विशेषकर जब dst dates are changed.
floorplan of the château de montargis
Montargis is a commune in the loiret department in north-central France on the loing नदी.
The कस्बा is स्तिथ परिचय दक्षिण of Paris और ईस्ट of Orléans in the Gâtinais.
Montargis is the second largest city in the loiret, after Orléans.
It is निकट a विशाल वन, और contains light उद्योग और खेती, including saffron.
due to इसके numerous नहरों and पुलों, montargis sometimes bills itself as the `` Venice of the gâtinais. ''
Though काफी आधुनिक, it retains a मध्यकालीन आकर्षण in its downtown क्षेत्रफल.
in कंप्यूटर storage, a लॉजिकल ईकाई क्रमांक, or LUN, is a number प्रयुक्त to पहचानो a लॉजिकल ईकाई, which is a यंत्र addressed by the SCSI प्रोटोकॉल or प्रोटोकॉल which encapsulate scsi, ऐसे as Fibre चैनल or iscsi.
a lun may be प्रयुक्त with कोई यंत्र which supports read/write परिचालन, such as a टेप drive, but is most often प्रयुक्त to refer to a logical डिस्क as निर्मित on a SAN.
Though not technically correct, the पद `` lun '' is often भी प्रयुक्त to refer to the लॉजिकल डिस्क itself.
the इन्जील according to चिह्नित (,, to euangelion kata Markon ), commonly shortened to the इन्जील of चिह्नित or बस Mark, is the second book of the नई वसीयत.
इस canonical खाता of the जीवन of Jesus of Nazareth is one of the तीन synoptic gospels.
it थी thought to be an निचोड़, which accounts लिये इसके place as the second gospel in the Bible.
However, most contemporary scholars now लिहाज़ it as the earliest of the canonical gospels ( c 70 ).
That चिह्नित थी used as a सोर्स लिये the अन्य synoptic gospels इन्जील of मैथ्यू और इन्जील of ल्यूक is widely held by अनेक, हालांकि not सब, नई Testament विद्वानों.
The इन्जील of Mark narrates the Ministry of यीशु इससे his baptism by John the बैपटिस्ट to his मौत और क़यामत.
It focuses particularly on the पिछला सप्ताह of उसके life ( chapters 11–16 ) in जेरूसलम.
इसके स्विफ्ट कथा portrays यीशु as a वीर man of कार्रवाई, an exorcist, healer and चमत्कार worker.
An important थीम of Mark is the मुक्तिदाता रहस्य.
यीशु silences the demoniacs he heals, कोशिशें unsuccessfully to रखना his मुक्तिदाता पहचान secret, और conceals his संदेश साथ parables.
meanwhile, the शिष्यों असफल to समझे दोनो the implication of the चमत्कार of यीशु और the meaning of the things he predicts about उसके arrest, मौत और resurrection.
सबसे विद्वानों believe that the असली text of the इन्जील ends at चिह्नित 16:8 साथ the discovery of यीशु ' खाली मकबरा and that the following खाता of उसके resurrection appearances is a बाद जोड.
According to परंपरा और कुछ early गिरिजाघर writers, the लेखक is चिह्नित the Evangelist, the साथी of the apostle पीटर.
the gospel, however, appears to rely on अनेक underlying स्त्रोत, varying in रूप और in theology, which tells विरूद्ध the परंपरा that the इन्जील was based on पीटर 's preaching.
the टेक्स्ट is a संकलन जिससे may शामिल eye-witness accounts as खूब as ज्ञात अपोस्टोलिक preachings, and pre-existing लिखा रिकॉर्ड कि do नहीं मौजूद आज but can be पुष्टि from 2nd-century commentators.
Some of the stories in the इन्जील may have महरूम transmitted orally before होने written bas.
विभिन्न तत्व भीतर the gospel suggest that the लेखक wrote in सीरियाई or फिलिस्तीन for a non-Jewish ईसाई community.
the Lord of the बजती is an epic high काल्पनिक novel written by अंग्रेज़ी philologist and विश्वविद्यालयों of Oxford professor J. R. R. Tolkien.
The story began as a sequel to tolkien 's 1937 children 's काल्पनिक अनोखा The होब्बिट, but eventually विकसित into a much larger work.
it was written in stages between 1937 और 1949, much of it during World युद्ध II.
it is the दूसरी best-selling अनोखा कभी लिखा, साथ over 150 million copies बेची.
the title of the अनोखा refers to the story 's main विपक्षी, the अंधेरा Lord sauron, जो था in an earlier age created the One Ring to नियम the other बजती of शक्ति as the ultimate weapon in his अभियान to conquer और rule सब of middle-earth.
इससे शांत beginnings in the Shire, a Hobbit जमीन नहीं नापसंद the English countryside, the स्टोरी ranges across north-west middle-earth, following the course of the युद्ध of the रिंग through the आँखें of its characters, notably the hobbits frodo Baggins, Samwise `` sam '' gamgee, meriadoc `` मैरी '' brandybuck और Peregrin `` Pippin '' took, but also the hobbits ' मुख्य allies and यात्राएं companions : Aragorn, a Human रेंजर ; boromir, a man from Gondor ; gimli, a बौना योद्धा ; legolas, an Elven prince ; और gandalf, a Wizard.
The कार्य थी initially intended by tolkien to be one आवाज़ of a two-volume नियत, साथ the अन्य होने The Silmarillion, लकिन इस विचार थी dismissed by his प्रकाशक.
It was decided for economic कारण to प्रकाशित The Lord of the बजती as three आयतन over the कोर्स of a साल from 29 July 1954 to 20 October 1955, thus creating the now परिचित Lord of the बजती त्रयी.
The three volumes यहूद entitled the Fellowship of the रिंग, The दो मीनारें, and the Return of the किंग.
structurally, the novel is विभाजित internally into छह किताबे, two per आवाज़, with अनेक appendices of पृष्ठभूमि सामग्री included at the end of the तीसरा आवाज़.
the रब of the बजती has चूंकि been reprinted numerous टाइम्स और अनूदित into many भाषाएं.
tolkien 's कार्य has महरूम the subject of extensive विश्लेषण of its themes और origins.
Although a प्रमुख कार्य in itself, the स्टोरी थी only the last गति of a larger एपिक tolkien था worked on since 1917, in a प्रक्रम he described as mythopoeia.
प्रभाव on this earlier work, and on the स्टोरी of the रब of the बजती, शामिल philology, mythology, धर्म और the author 's distaste for the प्रभाव of industrialization, as खूब as earlier काल्पनिक works और Tolkien 's अनुभवों in World युद्ध i.
The रब of the बजती in its turn is माना to have had a ग्रेट effect on आधुनिक काल्पनिक ; the प्रभाव of tolkien 's works is such that the उपयोग of the words `` tolkienian '' और `` tolkienesque '' have महरूम अंकित in the Oxford अंग्रेज़ी शब्दकोष.
the enduring popularity of The रब of the Rings रै led to numerous सन्दर्भ in लोकप्रिय culture, the founding of अनेक societies by प्रशंसक of Tolkien 's works, and the प्रकाशन of many किताबे about Tolkien and उसके works.
The रब of the Rings रै inspired, and continues to inspire, कलाकृति, music, films और टेलीविज़न, video खेल, और subsequent literature.
award-winning adaptations of the Lord of the Rings have been made for रेडियो, theatre, और फिल्मी.
The following is an एपीसोड सूची for the निकलोडियन sitcom ड्रेक & Josh.
The series debuted on जनवरी 11, 2004.
A tv film मैरी Christmas, ड्रेक & जोश थी made अलावा इससे the नियमित series on December 5, 2008.
वहीँ हैं a total of 60 एपीसोड were produced spanning four seasons.
ड्रेक घंटी, जोश Peck, और Miranda Cosgrove were the तभी actors to appear in all 60 एपीसोड.
The सैन Francisco 49ers conduct प्रशिक्षण camp at the team 's मुख्यालय और अभ्यास सुविधा in सांता Clara, कैलिफ़ोर्निया in August 2010.
The ठोकर is wearing red jerseys with the एक्सेप्शन of क्वार्टरबैक एलेक्स स्मिथ, who is in a ब्लैक जर्सी ; the defense in श्वेत.
in the नेशनल Football League, training camp refers to the time before the ऋतु commences.
दौरान इस समय, टीमों होगा sometimes congregate at an outside location, usually a विश्वविद्यालयों, to conduct प्रशिक्षण camp लिये at तनिक the पहला few weeks.
This is समान to baseball 's spring प्रशिक्षण.
प्रशिक्षण camp is प्रयुक्त in several अलग तरीके.
नई खिलाड़ी और कोच use it to acclimate themselves to new teammates and प्रणालियों.
लिये younger खिलाड़ी, it serves as a period of evaluation ; for दिग्गजों, it is समय to round वापस into form.
प्रशिक्षण camp is divided into अनेक different components.
The पहला is scrimmages.
ये are pseudo-games where टीमों चलाएं nearly full खेल ' लायक of plays.
Sometimes, दो practice sessions are held on the same day.
This अवधारणा is referred to as two-a-days.
अन्य भाग of training शिविर शामिल drills, बैठक with coaches और other players at एक 's स्थिति, वज़न प्रशिक्षण, और pre-season games.
the latter हाफ of training camp leads directly into the exhibition season.
With NFL प्रशिक्षण शिविरों starting in late-july, the biggest concern has महरूम निर्जलीकरण.
In 2001, Minnesota Vikings player Korey Stringer died of a चिकित्सा कंडीशन आधारित इससे dehydration और heatstroke.
the death of Stringer prompted the एनएफएल to बदलें their training policies.
At प्रत्येक practice, प्रत्येक team जरूर have the टोली डॉक्टर and प्रशिक्षकों on the फ़ील्ड ; additionally, an एम्बुलेंस जरूर be उपस्थित दौरान practices.
With एनएफएल प्रशिक्षण शिविरों beginning in late July, कठोर weather can affect अभ्यास और प्रदर्शनी खेल.
In 2002, a Cleveland भूरा प्रदर्शनी खेल ended due to बिजली निकट Cleveland भूरा स्टेडियम, और कठोर storms have महरूम known to disrupt प्रशिक्षण शिविरों.
Fans हैं often समर्थ to विज़िट their favorite टोली 's training शिविर to कैच an जल्दी dekh at the खिलाड़ी ; प्रवेश to practices is often free or substantially less महंगी than a खेल टिकट, बनाना training शिविर trips a लोकप्रिय option लिये fans who can नहीं attend अनेक games due to वित्तीय or अन्य reasons.
एनएफएल teams प्रायः बेचें कलाकृतियां और concessions at camp sites along with offering क्रियाएँ और कार्यक्रम to मेक प्रशिक्षण शिविर a more fan-friendly अनुभव.
In computing, a संचिका प्रणाली ( or filesystem ) is a प्रकार of data स्टोर जिससे can be प्रयुक्त to store, retrieve और update a नियत of फाइलें.
The term could refer to the अमूर्त आंकड़ा structures प्रयुक्त to define files, or to the वास्तविक तन्त्र or फर्मवेयर components कि implement the अमूर्त विचार.
Some file प्रणालियों हैं प्रयुक्त on लोकल data भंडार डिवाइस ; अन्य provide संचिका access via a network protocol ( e.g. NFS, SMB, or 9p क्लाइंट ).
Some संचिका systems हैं `` आभासी '', in कि the `` files '' supplied are computed on request ( e.g. procfs ) or are merely a मानचित्रण into a different संचिका प्रणाली प्रयुक्त as a बैकिंग store.
the संचिका system manages अभिगम to both the सामग्री of files and the metadata about those फाइलें.
It is responsible लिये arranging storage स्पेस ; विश्वसनीयता, efficiency, and tuning साथ लिहाज़ to the शारीरिक भंडार medium are महत्वपूर्ण डिज़ाइन considerations.
William Howard taft ( September 15, 1857 – कूच 8, 1930 ) was the 27th अध्यक्ष of the United States ( 1909–1913 ) and बाद the दसवाँ मुख्य इंसाफ of the संयुक्त States ( 1921–1930 ).
he is the तभी person to have परोसा in both of ये कार्यालयों.
पहले बनने अध्यक्ष, Taft, a Republican, थी चयनित to serve on the श्रेष्ठ Court of Cincinnati in 1887.
In 1890, Taft was appointed solicitor सामान्य of the संयुक्त States और in 1891 a न्यायधीश on the संयुक्त States अदालत of Appeals लिये the छठे सर्किट.
In 1900, अध्यक्ष William McKinley appointed taft Governor-General of the फिलीपीन.
In 1904, President थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट नियुक्त taft सचिव of युद्ध in an effort to दूल्हे Taft, तब उसके close राजनैतिक ally, into his handpicked presidential successor.
taft assumed a prominent role in problem solving, assuming on कुछ अवसरों the role of एक्टिंग सचिव of State, while घटती दोहराया offers इससे Roosevelt to serve on the परम् अदालत.
Riding a वेव of popular support लिये fellow रिपब्लिकन Roosevelt, taft जीती an easy विजय in उसके 1908 bid लिये the presidency.
In उसके only term, Taft 's domestic कार्यसूची emphasized trust-busting, सिविल सेवा सुधार, strengthening the अंतरराज्यीय कॉमर्स Commission, improving the प्रदर्शन of the डाक service, and ड्योढ़ी of the Sixteenth amendment.
विदेश, taft sought to further the आर्थिक development of राष्ट्र in लैटिन अमेरिका और एशिया through `` Dollar कूटनीति ``, and दिखाया decisiveness और restraint in जवाब to क्रान्ति in मैक्सिको.
the task-oriented taft थी बेख़बर to the political ramifications of उसके decisions, प्रायः alienated his अपना key constituencies, and was overwhelmingly पराजित in उसके बोली लिये a दूसरी पद in the अध्यक्षीय चुनाव of 1912.
in सर्वेक्षण of अध्यक्षीय scholars, taft is प्रायः क्रमित near the middle of lists of सब अमरीकी राष्ट्रपतियों.
बाद leaving दफ्तर, Taft खर्च his time in academia, arbitration, and the ढूंढें for संसार peace through उसके self-founded League to enforce Peace.
in 1921, after the First World War, अध्यक्ष वारेन G. हार्डिंग नियुक्त taft मुख्य Justice of the United States.
taft served in this capacity until shortly before his मौत in 1930.
the Ten Commandments is a 1956 एपिक film उत्पादित और निर्देशित by सेसिल B. demille कि dramatized the biblical स्टोरी of the Exodus, in जिससे the hebrew-born Moses, an अपनाया Egyptian प्रिंस, becomes the deliverer of the यहूदी स्लेव.
it स्ट्रक्चर चार्ल्टन Heston in the सीसे role, yul brynner as उसके adoptive brother, pharaoh rameses II, Anne बैक्सटर as nefretiri, एडवर्ड G. रॉबिन्सन as dathan, Yvonne De Carlo as sephora, डेबरा पेजेट as Lilia, और John डेरेक as जोशुआ.
the supporting डाल includes Sir सेड्रिक Hardwicke as pharaoh Seti i, नीना foch as Bithiah, Martha स्कॉट as yoshebel, जूडिथ Anderson as Memnet, विंसेंट Price as Baka, and जॉन carradine as Aaron.
the फिल्मी was released by Paramount Pictures in vistavision on अक्तूबर 5, 1956.
the Ten आयतें, which DeMille narrated, थी the last film कि he निर्देशित.
he थी नियत to direct the 1958 remake of उसके 1938 film The Buccaneer, but उसके फाइनल बीमारी forced him to relinquish the directing chores to उसके son-in-law, कर्ता एंथोनी क्विन.
DeMille था also planned to film the जीवन of Lord baden पावेल, the संस्थापक of the स्काउट गति, साथ David niven ; इस प्रोजेक्ट थी never एहसास.
the टेन आयतें is a आंशिक रीमेक of DeMille 's 1923 मूक फिल्मी.
कुछ of the डाल and क्रू of the 1956 संस्करण worked on the original.
It has since been remade as a टेलीविज़न miniseries ब्रॉडकास्ट in अप्रैल 2006.
The टेन आयतें is one of the सबसे financially successful films कभी बना, grossing over $ 65 लाख at the u.S. बक्सा office.
Adjusting लिये महंगाई, इस makes it the sixth highest-grossing फिल्मी domestically, साथ an adjusted कुल of $ 1,025,730,000 in 2012.
The box दफ्तर जालस्थल `` The संख्याएँ '' lists the domestic सकल at $ 80 लाख.
in 1999, the टेन Commandments was चयनित लिये preservation in the United States National फिल्मी रजिस्ट्री by the पुस्तकालयों of कॉंग्रेस as होने `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
in जून 2008, the American Film Institute नाज़िल its `` टेन Top टेन `` —the best ten films in टेन American फिल्मी genres—after polling over 1,500 लोगों from the रचनात्मक जातियाँ.
the Ten आयतें थी सूचीबद्ध as the दसवाँ best film in the epic विधा.
The film प्राप्त सात Academy पुरस्कार nominations सहित Best Picture, और won the अकादमी पुरस्कार for बेहतरीन Visual Effects.
Charlton Heston was मनोनीत लिये a सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार for बेहतरीन Motion चित्र कर्ता in the नाटक श्रेणी.
yul Brynner won the National फलक of पुनर्विलोकन Award लिये बेहतरीन Actor for his भूमिका as rameses, साथ साथ उसके अन्य भूमिकाएँ in the किंग और i और Anastasia.
Louisville (, or ) is a प्रमुख city और the largest नगर in the U.S. राज्य of Kentucky and the county सीट of जेफरसन काउंटी.
चूंकि 2003, the नगर 's borders have महरूम साथ those of the काउंटी because of a city-county विलय.
the city 's कुल संचित जनसांख्यिकी at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी was 741,096 ( louisville 's संतुलन total, 602,011, excludes semi-autonomous कस्बों और is the जनसांख्यिकी listed in सबसे स्त्रोत and national rankings ).
as of 2010, the Louisville महानगर क्षेत्रफल ( एमएसए ) had a population of 1,307,647 रैंकिंग 42nd nationally.
The metro क्षेत्रफल includes louisville-jefferson काउंटी और 12 surrounding काउंटी, आठ in केंटकी और चार in दक्षिणी इंडियाना ( see Geography below ).
The Louisville संयुक्त सांख्यिकीय Area, having a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,451,564, शामिल the एमएसए, Hardin काउंटी and larue काउंटी in केंटकी, and स्कॉट काउंटी, इंडियाना.
An महत्वपूर्ण internal शिपिंग बंदरगाहों in the 19th century, louisville आज is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the स्थान of the केंटकी डर्बी, the first of तीन annual thoroughbred घोड़ा दौड़ making up the ट्रिपल Crown.
A ठेठ experimental सेटअप for an aldol reaction.
दोनो flasks हैं submerged in a dry ice/acetone cooling नहाना ( −78 °C ) the तापमान of जिससे is होने monitored by a तापयुग्म ( the तार on the left ).
a कूलिंग नहाना, in प्रयोगशाला chemistry ( often लकिन not सदा सशुल्क रसायन ) practice, is a liquid मिश्रण जिससे is प्रयुक्त to maintain low temperatures, typically between 13 °C और −196 °C.
These कम temperatures are प्रयुक्त to collect liquids after आसवन, to remove solvents using a rotary evaporator, or to perform a रासायनिक reaction नीचे रूम तापमान ( देखिए : गतिज कंट्रोल ).
कूलिंग baths हैं generally एक of दो प्रकार : ( a ) a ठंडा द्रव ( विशेषकर द्रव nitrogen, जल, or भी air ) — लकिन सबसे commonly the पद refers to ( b ) a mixture of 3 components : ( 1 ) a cooling agent ( ऐसे as शुष्क ice or जल ice ) ; ( b ) a द्रव 'कैरीr ' ( such as liquid जल, ethylene glycol, एसीटोन, etc. ), जिससे transfers ऊष्मा between the नहाना और the पोत ; ; and ( c ) an योगात्मक to depress the melting-point of the solid/liquid system.
( a परिचित उदाहरण of this is the उपयोग of an ice/rock-salt मिश्रण to फ्रीज बर्फ cream.
the phase-change of ice into liquid जल requires energy, 'pulling ' heat from the system.
Adding नमक lowers the अस्थायी at जिससे इस happens, meaning अधिक energy रै to be अवशोषित from the पर्यावरण in अनुक्रम to melt the बर्फ.
इस effectively makes the ice 'colder ' — it जरूर 'pull ' अधिक ऊष्मा इससे इसके environment to become liquid. )
खाने disorders हैं conditions पारिभाषित by असामान्य खाने habits that may involve either अपर्याप्त or excessive food intake to the detriment of an व्यक्तिगत 's physical और दिमागी health.
Bulimia नर्वोज़ा और anorexia nervosa हैं the सबसे आम specific फ़ॉर्म in the United किंगडम.
अन्य types of खाने disorders शामिल binge खाने विकार और eating disorder नहीं otherwise निर्दिष्ट.
bulimia nervosa is a विकार characterized by binge eating और purging.
Purging can शामिल self-induce उल्टी, over-exercising, and the usage of diuretics, enemas, and laxatives.
Anorexia नर्वोज़ा is characterized by चरम खाना restriction to the point of self-starvation और excessive वज़न घाटा.
Though primarily विचार of as affecting females ( an estimated 5–10 million होने प्रभावित in the u.K. ), eating विकार affect males as खूब.
an estimated 10 – 15 % of लोगों साथ खाने disorders हैं males ( Gorgan, 1999 ).
( an estimated 1 लाख u.K. males होने प्रभावित ).
Although eating विकार are increasing सब over the संसार among दोनो मेन and women, वहीँ is प्रमाण to suggest कि it is महिलाओं in the Western संसार जो are at the highest रिस्क of विकासशील them and the degree of westernization increases the रिस्क.
Nearly half of all अमेरिकी personally जान किसी with an खाने विकार.
The कौशल to comprehend the सेंट्रल प्रक्रियाओं of भूख रै increased tremendously चूंकि लेप्टिन थी discovered, and the कौशल to observe the कृत्यों of the brain as well.
Interactions between motivational, homeostatic and self-regulatory कंट्रोल प्रक्रियाओं are शामिल in eating आचरण, which is a कुंजी component in eating disorders.
The precise cause of eating disorders is not entirely समझा, लकिन वहीँ is प्रमाण कि it may be linked to other चिकित्सा शर्तें और परिस्थितियों.
सांस्कृतिक idealization of thinness and youthfulness have contributed to खाने disorders affecting विविध populations.
एक study दिखाया कि girls साथ adhd have a वृहद मौका of getting an खाने विकार than those नहीं affected by ADHD.
Another पढ़ाई सुझाया कि महिलाओं साथ PTSD, especially due to sexually सम्बन्धित trauma, हैं more संभावित to develop anorexia नर्वोज़ा.
एक study showed कि foster girls are अधिक संभावित to develop bulimia नर्वोज़ा.
कुछ think कि peer दबाव and idealized body-types seen in the मीडिया हैं भी a significant factor.
कुछ शोध show that लिये certain लोगों वहीँ are जेनेटिक कारण क्यों वे may be prone to विकासशील an eating विकार.
Recent studies have found evidence a सहसंबंध between patients साथ bulimia नर्वोज़ा and substance use विकार.
in addition, चिंता disorders and personality विकार हैं common occurrences with क्लाइंट of खाने विकार.
जबकि proper उपचार can be अत्यधिक effective for many suffering इससे विशिष्ट types of खाने disorders, the consequences of eating disorders can be कठोर, सहित मौत ( whether इससे direct चिकित्सा प्रभाव of अशांत खाने habits or from comorbid conditions ऐसे as suicidal thinking ).
Slavery in the संयुक्त राज्य existed इससे the early years of the औपनिवेशिक काल ; it was firmly स्थापित by the time the United राज्य sought स्वतंत्रता from Great ब्रिटेन in 1776.
However, by 1804, सब states उत्तर of the Mason और Dixon Line था either abolished गुलामी outright or passed कानून for the क्रमिक abolition of slavery.
In 1787 Congress निषिद्ध गुलामी in the उत्तरपश्चिम Territory.
लकिन slavery gained नई life in the South साथ the कपास उद्योग बाद 1800, and expanded into the Southwest.
The nation थी polarized into slave and free states साथ the Mason-Dixon लकीर, which अलग पेन्सिलवेनिया and Maryland.
The United राज्य और ग्रेट Britain both निषिद्ध the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्लेव व्यापार in 1808, but the domestic व्यापार, साथ sales to the Deep South, expanded dramatically, and many captives यहूद shipped by the coastwise slave व्यापार.
पहले the 1840s, the दक्षिण was vigorously defending slavery and its expansion into the territories.
In the उत्तर कुछ abolitionists denounced it as गुनाहगार, और numerous anti-slavery शक्तियां अस्वीकृत it as detrimental to the अधिकारों of फ़्री men.
बाद विफल compromises और अब्राहम lincoln 's election, in 1861 eleven स्लेव states broke away to रूप the confederate राज्य of अमेरिका, leading to the अमरीकी सिविल War.
the federal government in 1862 बना abolition of slavery a war लक्ष्य.
In जनवरी 1863 अध्यक्ष lincoln freed स्लेव in the confederacy through the Emancipation उदघोषणा.
बाद the युद्ध, the तेरहवीं amendment, effective दिसम्बर 1865, abolished गुलामी throughout the संपूर्ण United राज्य, सहित the किनारा states और the Indian territories.
इससे the 16th to the 19th सदियां, an अनुमानित 12 लाख africans were shipped as slaves to the americas.
See गुलामी in the americas.
the ग्रेट majority गई to the शुगर बागानों of the वेस्ट Indies or Brazil, where मृत्यु थी high.
परिचय 645,000 were brought to कया is now the United राज्य.
By the 1860 संयुक्त States जनसांख्यिकी, the स्लेव जनसांख्यिकी in the अमरीकी दक्षिण था grown to चार लाख.
of सब 1,515,605 परिवारों in the 15 स्लेव states, nearly 400,000 held slaves ( roughly one in चार ), amounting to 8 % of all अमरीकी families.
जबकि कुछ स्लेव worked as हाउस बन्दों और शहरी artisans, the great majority worked on बागानों or विशाल farms, cultivating lucrative नकदी crops, such as rice, tobacco, शुगर और, बाद 1800, chiefly कपास.
by 1860 most slaves were आयोजित in the गहन दक्षिण, जहाँ they served in work-gangs ; two-thirds worked in कपास.
In small परिचालन, वे worked with उनके स्वामी.
in large plantations वे यहूद निर्देशित by श्वेत paid overseers.
अंतर्गत the प्रणाली कि became chattel slavery ( स्वामित्व of a human being, and of his/her descendants ), a racial element थी आधारभूत : slaves were अश्वेतों of African descent and स्वामित्व, लगभग universally, by whites of यूरोपीय descent.
In the 17th सदी, वर्जिनिया, followed by other दक्षिणी colonies, enacted law that children of slave mothers यहूद born into गुलामी.
स्लेव could लाभ freedom तभी by कार्यशील दूर ( जिससे थी मुश्किल and illegal to do ), or by manumission by owners, जिससे was regulated by राज्य, और became increasingly difficult or निषिद्ध.
in the earliest era of chattel slavery, the colonies also व्यवस्थित work by a प्रणाली of बंधुआ labor known as indentured servitude.
इस typically lasted लिये अनेक सालो लिये both poor europeans और africans alike, to pay बंद the लागत of transport to the colonies.
They contracted for ऐसे arrangements because of ग़रीब economies in उनके घर देशों.
Between 1680 and 1700, as fewer Europeans migrated to the colonies, planters began to आयात अधिक Africans as slaves.
recognizing the महत्व of गुलामी, the हाउस of burgesses in वर्जिनिया enacted a नई slave कोड in 1705 ; it combined a variety of legislation और added नई प्रावधानों enforcing श्वेत सर्वोच्चता in the law.
schematic क्रॉस section of भाग of पत्ता, जाइलम दिखाया as red वृत्त at figure 8.
जाइलम is एक of the दो types of हस्तांतरण ऊतक in vascular पौधे ( फ्लोएम is the अन्य ).
The शब्द xylem is निकला from the यूनानी word ξύλον ( xylon ), meaning `` लकडी '' ; the best-known जाइलम ऊतक is लकडी, हालांकि it is found throughout the संयंत्र.
इसके मौलिक फलन is to हस्तांतरण जल, लकिन it also transports कुछ nutrients through the plant.
इस क्लॉक प्रतिनिधित्व shows कुछ of the major units of geological time और definitive कार्यक्रम of धरती history.
The Hadean eon represents the समय पहले चट्टान रिकार्ड of life on Earth ; इसके अपर boundary is now regarded as 4.0 ga ( अरब सालो पहले ).
Other subdivisions प्रतिबिंबित the evolution of जीवन ; the Archean and proterozoic हैं दोनो eons, the Palaeozoic, mesozoic और cenozoic हैं eras of the Phanerozoic eon.
the दो लाख year quaternary काल, the समय of recognizable इंसानो, is too small to be visible at इस scale.
the geologic time स्केल is a प्रणाली of chronological मापन that relates स्तरिकी to time, और is used by geologists, paleontologists, and other धरती scientists to describe the समय और संबंध between कार्यक्रम कि have occurred throughout धरती 's history.
The तालिका of भूगर्भिक समय spans प्रस्तुत यहाँ agrees with the dates और nomenclature set forth by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय आयोग on Stratigraphy standard color कोड of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Commission on स्तरिकी.
Evidence इससे radiometric dating indicates कि the धरती is about 4.54 billion सालो बूढ़ा.
the भूविज्ञान or deep समय of धरती 's पास्ट has महरूम व्यवस्थित into विभिन्न इकाई according to कार्यक्रम which took प्लेस in प्रत्येक काल.
अलग spans of समय on the gts हैं प्रायः delimited by परिवर्तन in the संयोजन of strata जिससे correspond to उन्हें, indicating major geological or paleontological कार्यक्रम, ऐसे as द्रव्यमान extinctions.
लिये उदाहरण, the boundary between the Cretaceous period और the paleogene काल is पारिभाषित by the cretaceous–paleogene extinction इवेंट, जिससे marked the निधन of the dinosaurs and अनेक अन्य समूह of life.
Older time spans which predate the विश्वसनीय चट्टान record ( before the Proterozoic इओन ) are defined by निरपेक्ष आयु.
the ti-82 is a graphing परिपथ made by Texas यंत्र.
the ti-82 थी designed in 1993 as a stripped down, more user दोस्ताना संस्करण of the TI-85, और as a replacement for the ti-81.
it थी the direct predecessor of the ti-83.
it साझा with the ti-85 a 6 mhz zilog Z80 microprocessor.
Like the ti-81, the ti-82 सुविधाएँ a 96x64 pixel प्रदर्शक, and the कोर विशेषता नियत of the ti-81 साथ many new सुविधाएँ.
The डाल of वर्ण of The King of सेनानी xi.
the King of सेनानी लड़ खेल श्रेणी, उत्पादित by snk playmore, शामिल a wide डाल of वर्ण, some of जिससे हैं लिया इससे अन्य SNK खेल.
the स्टोरी takes place in a fictional ब्रह्मांड in जिससे an सालाना series of 3-on-3 or 4-on-4 लड़ tournaments हैं आयोजित.
The first game in the series introduces the आरंभिक प्रमुख अक्षर of the श्रेणी, kyo kusanagi, a young जापानी सेनानी who is the heir to a powerful समूह of martial कलाकारों having pyrokinetic abilities.
kyo झगड़े विरूद्ध the kusanagi clan 's enemies, उसके rival Iori yagami, and the परमेश्वर orochi और इसके इंसान अनुसरणकर्ता, among others.
The पहला चार खेल in the series revolve about ये झगड़े, जबकि The किंग of सेनानी '99 introduces a नई स्टोरी arc, revolving around k ', a यंग man जो seeks to destroy the रहस्यमय NESTS organization क्युकी वे kidnapped him at an early age और stripped उसे of उसके past यादें, so कि वे could फ़ोर्स him to be a fighter under their कंट्रोल.
in the किंग of सेनानी 2003, a new character नामित राख crimson enters the टूर्नामेंट, to चोरी the शक्तियां of the clans who sealed the Orochi in the past लिये an अनजान कारण.
a नई समूह of antagonists, ज्ञात as those From the पास्ट, also appears in the series ; they want to obtain orochi 's power for the purpose of giving it to उनके अनजान निपुण.
the plot और the वर्ण came from the Yamata no Orochi legend.
वहीँ हैं also अनेक वर्ण in the खेल कि हैं parodies or homages to अनेक popular anime, manga, और films.
Merchandise आधारित on the वर्ण has also महरूम released, including कार्रवाई आंकड़े and keychains.
The characters have garnered तारीफ़ इससे अनेक वीडियो खेल publications लिये the विशेषता of उनके डिजाइन and movesets.
Comments focused on the कमी of सुधार in कुछ of the वर्ण, लकिन added कि the roster is greatly विविध.
Whale युद्धों is a weekly अमरीकी documentary-style reality टेलीविज़न श्रेणी that premiered on November 7, 2008 on the Animal ग्रह cable चैनल.
the कार्यक्रम फ़ॉलो पॉल Watson, founder of the Sea गड़रिये संरक्षण Society, as he और the crew सवार उनके विभिन्न बरतन harass Japanese whalers बंद the coast of Antarctica.
on जनवरी 5, 2013, एनिमल Planet renewed the श्रेणी for a छठे ऋतु.
The Harpy त्रिभुज ( Harpia harpyja ) is a neotropical प्रजाति of eagle.
It is sometimes known as the American harpy त्रिभुज to फर्क it इससे the Papuan त्रिभुज जिससे is sometimes known as the नई गिनी Harpy त्रिभुज or Papuan harpy त्रिभुज.
it is the largest और most powerful रैप्टर found in the americas, and among the largest extant प्रजाति of eagles in the संसार.
it प्रायः inhabits tropical lowland rainforests in the अपर ( emergent ) canopy परत.
विनाश of its प्राकृतिक आवास रै seen it vanish इससे many भाग of इसके पूर्व दायरा, and it is nearly extirpated in सेंट्रल America.
Biological classification, or scientific वर्गीकरण in biology, is a method of scientific taxonomy प्रयुक्त to समूह और categorize जीवों into समूह such as genus or species.
These समूह हैं known as taxa ( एकवचन : taxon ).
आधुनिक biological वर्गीकरण has इसके root in the कार्य of carolus लीनियस, जो grouped प्रजाति according to shared शारीरिक विशेषताएँ.
ये groupings have चूंकि been revised to improve consistency with the darwinian principle of common descent.
साथ the introduction of the cladistic method in the late 20th century, phylogenetic taxonomy in जिससे जीवों हैं grouped आधारित purely on inferred evolutionary relatedness, ignoring morphological समानता, रै become आम in some क्षेत्रों of जीवविज्ञान.
Molecular phylogenetics, which uses डीएनए sequences as data, रै also driven many recent revisions and is संभावित to continue doing so.
biological वर्गीकरण belongs to the science of biological systematics.
लेनन 's signature
John Winston ओनो लेनन, ( born John Winston Lennon ; 9 अक्तूबर 1940 – 8 December 1980 ) was an English संगीतकार, सिंगर and songwriter who रोज़ to worldwide कीर्ति as a संस्थापक सदस्य of the Beatles, एक of the सबसे commercially कामयाब और critically acclaimed acts in the इतिहास of लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक.
साथ Paul mccartney, he formed एक of the most celebrated songwriting partnerships of the 20th सदी.
born और उठाया in लिवरपूल, as a किशोरावस्था लेनन became involved in the skiffle craze ; his पहला band, the Quarrymen, evolved into the Beatles in 1960.
as the समूह disintegrated towards the समाप्त of the दशक, Lennon embarked on a सोलो career that उत्पादित the critically acclaimed एल्बम John lennon/plastic Ono बैंड and Imagine, और iconic गीतों such as `` दे सलाम a मौका `` और `` imagine ``.
After his marriage to Yoko ओनो in 1969, he बदला उसके नाम to जॉन Ono Lennon.
Lennon disengaged खुद इससे the music business in 1975 to devote time to raising उसके infant son शॉन, but re-emerged with ओनो in 1980 साथ the new एल्बम दोगुना काल्पनिक.
He was murdered three सप्ताह after इसके रिलीज.
लेनन revealed a rebellious प्रकृति और acerbic wit in उसके म्यूज़िक, लिखने, drawings, on film और in interviews.
विवादास्पद through his political और सलाम सक्रियता, he स्थानांतरित to नई York नगर in 1971, where उसके criticism of the वियतनाम युद्ध resulted in a lengthy attempt by Richard Nixon 's प्रशासन to deport उसे, जबकि कुछ of his songs were adopted as anthems by the anti-war movement.
as of 2012, लेनन 's solo एल्बम बिक्री in the United States exceed 14 लाख इकाई, and as लेखक, co-writer or performer, he is जिम्मेदार लिये 25 number-one singles on the US Hot 100 चार्ट.
in 2002, a BBC पोल on the 100 महानतम Britons voted उसे आठवीं, and in 2008, रोलिंग स्टोन क्रमित उसे the fifth-greatest सिंगर of सब समय.
He was posthumously inducted into the songwriters हॉल of कीर्ति in 1987 and into the चट्टान और फेंकें हॉल of कीर्ति in 1994.
प्रतिमा of rip वैन Winkle in irvington, नई York, not दूर इससे `` Sunnyside ``, the घर of वॉशिंगटन इरविंग
`` Rip वैन Winkle '' is a छोटी स्टोरी by अमरीकी लेखक वॉशिंगटन Irving published in 1819, as खूब as the name of the स्टोरी 's fictional समर्थक.
Written जबकि Irving was living in Birmingham, इंग्लैण्ड, it was भाग of a collection हकदार The स्केच Book of Geoffrey crayon.
हालांकि the स्टोरी is नियत in New York 's catskill Mountains, Irving बाद admitted, `` जब I wrote the story, i था never महरूम on the catskills. ''
throughout the fifty-five साल इतिहास of the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, अनेक significant रिकॉर्ड have महरूम नियत.
इस पेज तभी शामिल the competitive पुरस्कार जीती by विभिन्न कलाकारों.
इस करता not शामिल the विभिन्न special awards कि are presented by the नेशनल अकादमी of Recording कला और sciences ऐसे as आजीवन Achievement पुरस्कार, Trustees Awards, तकनीकी पुरस्कार or Legend Awards.
the पेज however does शामिल अन्य non-performance सम्बन्धित Grammys ( ज्ञात as the Craft & उत्पादन फ़ील्ड ) that may have been प्रस्तुत to the artist ( s ).
pee-wee Herman is a comic fictional character निर्मित और portrayed by अमरीकी हास्य पॉल Reubens.
He is बेहतरीन ज्ञात for उसके दो टेलीविज़न series and film श्रेणी दौरान the 1980s.
The childlike pee-wee Herman अक्षर developed as a स्टेज अधिनियम that quickly led to an एचबीओ खास in 1981.
As the stage प्रदर्शन gained further लोकप्रियता, reubens took the character to गति चित्र साथ Pee-wee 's Big एडवेंचर in 1985, toning bas the वयस्क innuendo लिये the अपील of children.
This paved the रास्ता लिये pee-wee 's playhouse, an Emmy पुरस्कार जीतना children 's series that ran on सीबीएस इससे 1986-1991.
another film, बिग Top pee-wee, थी released in 1988.
Due to ऋणात्मक मीडिया ध्यान following a कांड in 1991, reubens decided to shelve his alter ego during the 1990s, and तब धीरे resurrected it दौरान the following decade.
It थी at that समय that reubens addressed योजनाएँ to लिखें a नई Pee-wee film, pee-wee 's Playhouse : The फिल्म.
in जून 2007, reubens appeared as pee-wee herman लिये the first time since 1991 at स्पाइक tv 's यारों ' चुनाव Awards.
कि '70s दिखाएँ is an अमरीकी television काल sitcom that centers on the जीवनदान of a group of teenage मित्रों जीना in the fictional suburban कस्बा of पाइंट प्लेस, विस्कॉन्सिन, इससे may 17, 1976, to December 31, 1979.
It debuted on the फॉक्स टेलीविज़न network, पहला airing on अगस्त 23, 1998, running for आठ लगातार सीज़न, and concluding with the 200th episode on may 18, 2006.
the main teenage cast सदस्यों were Topher अनुग्रह, mila Kunis, एश्टन कूचर, डैनी masterson, Laura Prepon, और Wilmer Valderrama.
the main वयस्क cast सदस्यों यहूद डेबरा jo Rupp, Kurtwood स्मिथ, डॉन स्टार्क और, दौरान the पहला तीन seasons, Tanya रॉबर्ट्स.
Kansas ( ) is a u.S. राज्य located in the Midwestern संयुक्त राज्य.
it is named बाद the Kansas River जिससे flows through it, जिससे in फेरे थी named बाद the Kansa देशी American tribe, जिससे inhabited the क्षेत्रफल.
the जनजाति 's नाम ( natively kką : ze ) is प्रायः कहा to औसत `` people of the हवा '' or `` people of the दक्षिण हवा, '' although इस was probably नहीं the term 's असली अर्थ.
निवासियों of कान्सास हैं पुकारा `` kansans. ''
For thousands of सालो what is now Kansas was घर to numerous and diverse Native अमरीकी जनजातियों.
जनजातियों in the पूर्वी भाग of the राज्य generally जिया in गांवों साथ the river valleys.
जनजातियों in the पश्चिमी part of the राज्य were सेमi- nomadic और hunted large herds of बाइसन.
कान्सास थी first settled by यूरोपीय Americans in the 1830s, but the pace of उपनिवेश त्वरित in the 1850s, in the midst of political युद्धों over the गुलामी समस्या.
When officially opened to उपनिवेश by the u.S. government in 1854, abolitionist free-staters from नई England and pro-slavery settlers इससे neighboring मिसौरी rushed to the territory to determine if Kansas होता become a free राज्य or a स्लेव राज्य.
यूँ, the area थी a hotbed of हिंसा and अराजकता in इसके जल्दी दिनों as ये forces collided, और थी ज्ञात as Bleeding कान्सास.
the abolitionists eventually prevailed और on January 29, 1861, कान्सास entered the संघ as a फ़्री राज्य.
बाद the सिविल War, the जनसांख्यिकी of Kansas grew rapidly, जब waves of आप्रवासियों turned the प्रेयरी into farmland.
आज, कान्सास is one of the सबसे उत्पादक agricultural states, producing high yields of गेहूं, sorghum and sunflowers.
Kansas is the 15th सबसे extensive and the 33rd सबसे populous of the 50 United States.
मनोविज्ञान is an अकादमिक और लागू अनुशासन that involves the वैज्ञानिक पढ़ाई of दिमागी functions और व्यवहार.
मनोविज्ञान has the तात्कालिक goal of understanding individuals और समूह by दोनो establishing सामान्य सिद्धान्त और researching विशिष्ट cases, and by अनेक accounts it ultimately aims to लाभ समाज.
in this फ़ील्ड, a professional or researcher is पुकारा a मनोवैज्ञानिक और can be वर्गीकृत as a सोशल, behavioral, or cognitive वैज्ञानिक.
psychologists attempt to समझे the भूमिका of दिमागी functions in व्यक्तिगत और सोशल बर्ताव, जबकि also exploring the physiological and neurobiological प्रक्रियाओं कि underlie certain संज्ञानात्मक कृत्यों and व्यवहार.
Psychologists explore अवधारणाओं such as बोध, cognition, ध्यान, जज्बात, phenomenology, प्रेरणा, brain functioning, व्यक्तित्व, behavior, और interpersonal relationships.
psychologists of विविध धारियाँ also consider the unconscious दिमाग.
Psychologists employ empirical विधि to infer causal and correlational relationships between psychosocial variables.
In addition, or in विपक्ष, to employing अनुभवजन्य and deductive विधि, some—especially नैदानिक और counseling psychologists—at times rely upon symbolic निर्वचन and अन्य आगमनात्मक तकनीकों.
मनोविज्ञान has महरूम described as a `` हब विज्ञान '', साथ मनोवैज्ञानिक निष्कर्षों linking to शोध and perspectives from the सोशल sciences, प्राकृतिक sciences, आयुर्विज्ञान, and the मानवता, such as दर्शनशास्त्र.
जबकि psychological ज्ञान is often लागू to the मूल्यांकन और उपचार of दिमागी health problems, it is भी directed towards समझना and solving problems in many different spheres of इंसान activity.
the बहुमत of psychologists हैं शामिल in कुछ दयालु of therapeutic role, practicing in नैदानिक, counseling, or school जमावट.
Many do वैज्ञानिक शोध on a wide दायरा of विषय सम्बन्धित to दिमागी processes and बर्ताव, और typically कार्य in विश्वविद्यालयों मनोविज्ञान departments or teach in other अकादमिक जमावट ( e.g., medical schools, hospitals ).
कुछ हैं employed in औद्योगिक और organizational जमावट, or in अन्य क्षेत्रों ऐसे as human विकास and aging, sports, health, और the media, as खूब as in forensic छानबीन और other पहलुओं of विधि.
थामस Jefferson ( अप्रैल 13, 1743 ( अप्रैल 2, 1743 o.S. ) – जुलाई 4, 1826 ) थी an अमरीकी founding Father, the प्रिंसिपल लेखक of the घोषणा of Independence ( 1776 ) और the तीसरा अध्यक्ष of the United States ( 1801–1809 ).
at the शुरूआत of the अमरीकी क्रान्ति, he served in the Continental कॉंग्रेस, representing वर्जिनिया and then परोसा as a wartime Governor of वर्जिनिया ( 1779–1781 ).
Just बाद the war ended, from mid-1784 Jefferson परोसा as a diplomat, stationed in पेरिस.
in May 1785, he became the United राज्य मंत्री to फ़्रांस.
जेफरसन थी the पहला संयुक्त राज्य Secretary of राज्य ( 1790–1793 ) serving under अध्यक्ष जार्ज Washington.
साथ उसके close dost जेम्स मैडिसन he organized the democratic-republican पार्टी, and subsequently resigned from वॉशिंगटन 's cabinet.
निर्वाचित Vice अध्यक्ष in 1796, जब he आए in second to John एडम्स of the Federalists, जेफरसन opposed एडम्स और with मैडिसन secretly लिखा the Kentucky और वर्जिनिया रिज़ॉल्यूशन, जिससे attempted to nullify the एलियन और राजद्रोह अधिनियमों.
निर्वाचित president in कया जेफरसन called the क्रान्ति of 1800, he oversaw the खरीदें of the विशाल louisiana territory from फ़्रांस ( 1803 ), and sent the लुईस and क्लार्क Expedition ( 1804–1806 ) to explore the नई west.
उसके दूसरी पद थी घिरा with troubles at home, ऐसे as the विफल treason विचारण of his पूर्व वाइस अध्यक्ष आरोन burr.
साथ escalating ट्रबल साथ ब्रिटेन जो थी चुनौतीपूर्ण American neutrality और threatening शिपिंग at समुद्र, he tried आर्थिक warfare साथ his embargo कानून which only क्षतिग्रस्त American व्यापार.
In 1803, अध्यक्ष Jefferson initiated a प्रक्रम of Indian tribal हटाना और relocation to the louisiana Territory west of the Mississippi नदी, in order to खोलें lands लिये eventual American settlers.
a नेता in the आत्मज्ञान, जेफरसन थी a polymath who spoke पाँच भाषाएं धड़ल्ले और was deeply interested in विज्ञान, आविष्कार, architecture, धर्म और दर्शनशास्त्र, interests that led him to the founding of the विश्वविद्यालयों of वर्जिनिया बाद उसके presidency.
he designed उसके अपना विशाल mansion on a 5,000 एकड़ plantation near Charlottesville, वर्जिनिया, which he named Monticello.
जबकि not a notable orator, जेफरसन थी a skilled writer and corresponded साथ अनेक influential लोगों in अमेरिका और यूरोपीय throughout उसके वयस्क जीवन.
Though जेफरसन owned many स्लेव, he opposed the संस्था all his जीवन and नतीजतन treated and took care of उन्हें बहुत खूब and expected उन्हें to कार्य no अधिक than फ़्री farmers.
चूंकि 1802 इतिहासकारों और अन्य have been divided over the विवाद of whether जेफरसन थी the पिता of एक or अधिक children belonging to सैली Hemings, a slave at Monticello. ''
इतिहासकारों are भी in disagreement साथ how much Jefferson was committed to the anti-slavery कारण.
In 1807, अध्यक्ष जेफरसन हस्ताक्षरित into law a bill that banned the importation of स्लेव into the संयुक्त राज्य.
बाद मार्था जेफरसन, his बीवी of ग्यारह years, died in 1782, जेफरसन remained a widower for the rest of उसके life ; उनके विवाह उत्पादित छह children, of जिसको दो survived to adulthood.
हालांकि जेफरसन रै been criticized by अनेक आधुनिक दिन विद्वानों over the समस्या of slavery, he remains रेटेड as one of the greatest u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों.
`` Sun नगर '' is a 1985 विरोध song लिखा by स्टीवन Van zandt, produced by Van Zandt और Arthur बेकर and recorded by Artists संयुक्त विरूद्ध Apartheid to convey विपक्ष to the दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी policy of apartheid.
the primary अर्थात् of that विपक्ष is to declare कि सब the artists शामिल would इंकार कोई और सब offers to perform at Sun नगर, a रिज़ॉर्ट which was स्तिथ in bantustan of Bophuthatswana, एक of a number of internationally अपरिचित supposed `` independent '' states निर्मित by the South अफ़्रीकी government to forcibly relocate its black जनसांख्यिकी.
इस पेज is a list of वर्ण in the पुलिस अकादमी फिल्मी and television श्रेणी.
विधेयक रसेल जीती 11 championships with the Boston सेल्टिक्स.
This is a सूची of एनबीए players with सबसे championships जीती as a खिलाड़ी.
the नेशनल बास्केट संघ ( एनबीए ) is a major professional बास्केट लीग in उत्तर America.
it थी संस्थापित in 1946 as the Basketball Association of America ( BAA ).
the लीग adopted its current नाम at the प्रारंभ of the जब it मिलाया साथ the National बास्केट लीग ( NBL ).
the एनबीए Finals is the चैंपियनशिप series for the NBA और the निष्कर्ष of the sport 's postseason.
The जीतना team of the series receives the Larry O'Brien चैंपियनशिप Trophy.
Players इससे the जीतना team प्रायः receive चैंपियनशिप rings from the टोली honoring उनके योगदान.
however, in some विरल अवसर, the teams opted to gave अन्य commemorative items, such as कलाई घड़ियाँ, बजाय of बजती.
the क्रमांक of championships won by NBA सुपरस्टार is प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a मापन of उनके विशालता.
बोस्टन Celtics center विधेयक Russell holds the record लिये the सबसे एनबीए championships जीती with 11 शीर्षक दौरान his 13-year playing करियर.
he जीती his first championship with the Boston सेल्टिक्स in his rookie साल.
afterwards, he गई on to win 10 championships in the अगला 12 सालो, including आठ consecutive championships इससे 1959 to 1966.
He won the पिछला दो championships in 1968 और 1969 as player-coach.
Russell 's teammate, sam Jones, जीती 10 championships इससे 1959 to 1969, the दूसरी सबसे in NBA इतिहास.
Four सेल्टिक्स players, tom Heinsohn, K. C. जोन्स, Satch सैंडर्स और John Havlicek, जीती eight championships प्रत्येक.
दो अन्य Celtics, जिम Loscutoff और Frank Ramsey, won seven championships प्रत्येक.
Four players, Bob Cousy, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, माइकल जॉर्डन and scottie pippen, won six championships प्रत्येक.
Jordan और pippen हैं सदस्यों of the शिकागो Bulls team जो जीती तीन लगातार championships twice in the 1990s.
रॉबर्ट horry और जॉन salley are the only players to have जीती the championships with तीन अलग टीमों.
Horry जीती seven championships साथ the Houston rockets, the लॉस Angeles लेकर्स और the San Antonio स्पर्स, जबकि Salley जीती चार championships साथ the डेट्रॉयट Pistons, the Bulls and the लेकर्स.
फ़्रैंक Saul और स्टीव केर हैं the only players to जीत two championships with two अलग टीमों in consecutive seasons.
शाऊल won लगातार championships साथ the Rochester Royals and the Minneapolis लेकर्स in the 1950s, जबकि Kerr जीती consecutive championships साथ the bulls और the स्पर्स in the 1990s,
सटीकता indicates निकटता of measurement परिणाम to the true value, precision to the repeatability, or reproducibility of the मापन
in the फ़ील्ड of विज्ञान, अभियान्त्रिकी, industry, और statistics, the accuracy of a मापन प्रणाली is the degree of closeness of measurements of a quantity to that quantity 's वास्तविक ( true ) मान.
The precision of a measurement प्रणाली, भी called reproducibility or repeatability, is the उपाधि to जिससे repeated माप अंतर्गत unchanged conditions दिखाएँ the same results.
हालांकि the दो शब्द reproducibility and repeatability can be synonymous in colloquial उपयोग, they हैं deliberately contrasted in the context of the वैज्ञानिक method.
a measurement प्रणाली can be सटीक but नहीं precise, precise लकिन नहीं सटीक, neither, or दोनो.
For उदाहरण, if an experiment contains a व्यवस्थित error, तब increasing the नमूना आकार generally increases परिशुद्धता but does नहीं improve सटीकता.
The परिणाम would be a consistent yet inaccurate स्ट्रिंग of results इससे the flawed प्रयोग.
Eliminating the व्यवस्थित गलती improves सटीकता लकिन करता not बदलें परिशुद्धता.
a मापन system is designated valid if it is both सटीक और precise.
Related terms शामिल पूर्वाग्रह ( non- यादृच्छिक or निर्देशित प्रभाव caused by a factor or factors unrelated to the independent परिवर्तनीय ) और गलती ( यादृच्छिक variability ).
the terminology is भी applied to अप्रत्यक्ष measurements—that is, values obtained by a computational कार्यविधि इससे observed data.
in जोड to accuracy और precision, measurements may भी have a मापन resolution, which is the smallest बदलें in the underlying physical मात्रा कि produces a जवाब in the measurement.
In the case of पूरा reproducibility, ऐसे as जब rounding a क्रमांक to a representable फ्लोटिंग पाइंट number, the शब्द precision रै a meaning नहीं सम्बन्धित to reproducibility.
लिये उदाहरण, in the आईईईई 754-2008 मानक it अर्थात् the क्रमांक of bits in the significand, so it is used as a माप for the सापेक्ष सटीकता साथ जिससे an arbitrary क्रमांक can be represented.
बकवास in इसके literal meaning refers to the अधिनियम of sexual मैथुन.
it is an अंग्रेज़ी word कि is प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a profanity, either to denote तिरस्कार or as an intensifier.
the उत्पत्ति of the शब्द is अस्पष्ट.
It is usually माना to be पहला attested to around 1475, लकिन it may be considerably पुरानी.
In आधुनिक usage, fuck और its डेरिवेटिव ( ऐसे as कमीने और fucking ) can be प्रयुक्त in the स्थिति of a noun, a क्रिया, an क्रियाशील or an adverb.
वहीँ are अनेक आम वाक्यांश जिससे make उपयोग of the word, as well as a क्रमांक of यौगिकों incorporating it, such as motherfucker.
एनिमेटेड, color-coded मैप showing the विभिन्न महाद्वीपों और regions.
Depending on the सम्मेलन and मॉडल, some continents may be संचित or subdivided : लिये उदाहरण, यूरेशिया is सबसे प्रायः subdivided into यूरोपीय and Asia ( red shades ), जबकि उत्तर and दक्षिण अमेरिका are sometimes recognized as एक अमरीकी continent ( ग्रीन shades ).
a महाद्वीप is एक of अनेक बहुत विशाल landmasses on धरती.
वे are generally पहचाना by सम्मेलन बल्कि than any सख्त criteria, साथ up to सात regions commonly regarded as continents—they हैं ( from largest in आकार to smallest ) : एशिया, अफ़्रीकी, North अमेरिका, दक्षिण अमेरिका, Antarctica, Europe, and ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
in भूविज्ञान, continents हैं described by अर्थात् of tectonic प्लेटों.
Plate विवर्तनिकी is the प्रक्रम और study of the गति, collision और division of continents, पहले ज्ञात as महाद्वीपीय drift.
बाइकर Boyz is a 2003 फिल्मी about a समूह of भूमिगत मोटरसाइकिल खीचें racers.
It सितारों laurence फिशबर्न, djimon hounsou, डेरेक ल्यूक, meagan शुभ, and larenz Tate और is लिखा और निर्देशित by reggie Rock bythewood.
it भी features लिसा bonet, Orlando Jones, Kid Rock and वैनेसा घंटी calloway.
लिये the Steel Panther सोंग, see महसूस the Steel.
जातियाँ property is a वैवाहिक property शासन कि originated in सिविल विधि jurisdictions और is now also मिला in कुछ आम law jurisdictions.
the राज्य of the संयुक्त States that recognize जातियाँ property are primarily in the वेस्ट ; it थी inherited इससे मैक्सिको 's ganancial जातियाँ प्रणाली, जिससे itself थी inherited from स्पेनी विधि ( a Roman -derived सिविल विधि प्रणाली ) and ultimately from the visigoths.
जबकि under स्पेनी नियम louisiana अपनाया the ganancial जातियाँ system of acquests और gains, जिससे replaced the परंपरागत French community of movables और acquests in इसके civil विधि system.
मैप of the संयुक्त States साथ community property राज्य highlighted in red.
in addition to the highlighted राज्य, Alaska is a separate प्रॉपर्टी राज्य कि permits युगल to ऑप्ट into a जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी व्यवस्था.
in a जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी क्षेत्राधिकार, सबसे प्रॉपर्टी acquired during the विवाह ( except for उपहार or inheritances ) —the जातियाँ, or communio bonorum—is स्वामित्व jointly by दोनो spouses और is divided upon तलाक, annulment or death.
संयुक्त स्वामित्व is automatically presumed by law in the अनुपस्थिति of specific evidence कि would पाइंट to a contrary conclusion for a particular टुकड़ा of property.
प्रभाग of जातियाँ property may take प्लेस by item, by splitting सब वस्तुएं or by मान.
in कुछ jurisdictions, ऐसे as California, a 50/50 प्रभाग of जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी is strictly mandated by statute, अर्थ कि the फ़ोकस तब शिफ्ट to whether particular वस्तुएं हैं to be वर्गीकृत as जातियाँ or separate प्रॉपर्टी.
in other jurisdictions, ऐसे as टेक्सास, a divorce अदालत may डिक्री an `` equitable वितरण `` of जातियाँ property, which may result in an गैरबराबरी प्रभाग of ऐसे.
in non-community property states property may be divided by equitable वितरण.
generally speaking, the प्रॉपर्टी that each संगी brings into the marriage or receives by gift, bequest or devise दौरान विवाह is पुकारा पृथक प्रॉपर्टी ( i.e., नहीं community प्रॉपर्टी ).
देखिए division of property.
प्रभाग of community debts may नहीं be the same as प्रभाग of community प्रॉपर्टी.
For उदाहरण, in कैलिफ़ोर्निया, community property is required to be divided `` equally '' while community debt is जरूरी to be divided `` equitably ''.
Property that is स्वामित्व by एक spouse before the marriage is the पृथक property of that spouse, जबतक the property is `` transmuted '' into community प्रॉपर्टी.
the नियम लिये this vary इससे jurisdiction to क्षेत्राधिकार.
the ड्यूक and Duchess of कैम्ब्रिज हिलाता to the भीड at The Mall shortly after the विवाह.
the विवाह of Prince विलियम, Duke of कैम्ब्रिज, and कैथरीन मिडलटन took place on 29 April 2011 at वेस्टमिंस्टर ऐबी in London.
the groom, प्रिंस William, ड्यूक of Cambridge, is the eldest बेटे of Charles, Prince of Wales, and is दूसरी in the line of उत्तराधिकार to the British सिंहासन and the तख्तों of पंद्रह अन्य राष्ट्रमंडल realms.
The बहू, कैथरीन `` केट '' मिडलटन is the eldest of three children of माइकल और carole मिडलटन of bucklebury, Berkshire.
the डीन of Westminster, John हॉल, presided at the सेवा ; the archbishop of canterbury, rowan Williams, conducted the marriage ; रिचर्ड chartres, the बिशप of London, preached the sermon ; and a पढना थी दिए by the बहू 's bhai, जेम्स.
विलियम 's best man थी his brother, प्रिंस Harry, जबकि the bride 's sister, Pippa, थी maid of honour.
The रस्म थी attended by the बहू 's and groom 's परिवारों, as खूब as अनेक foreign रॉयल्स, राजनयिकों, और the couple 's chosen निजी guests.
बाद the ceremony, the युगल बना the परंपरागत रूप on the बालकनी of बकिंघम राजमहल.
As प्रिंस विलियम थी नहीं the वारिस apparent to the throne, the विवाह was not a full state occasion और many विवरण यहूद बाएँ to the युगल to decide, such as much of the अतिथि सूची of परिचय 1,900.
प्रिंस विलियम और Kate Middleton met in 2001.
उनके engagement on 20 अक्तूबर 2010 थी घोषित on 16 November 2010.
the build-up to the विवाह और the occasion itself attracted much मीडिया ध्यान, होने compared in अनेक तरीके साथ the 1981 विवाह of William 's अभिभावक.
the occasion थी a public अवकाश in the संयुक्त किंगडम and प्रदर्शित अनेक ceremonial पहलुओं, सहित use of the राज्य carriages and roles for the पैर गार्ड और Household Cavalry.
Events were आयोजित around the Commonwealth to चिह्नित the wedding ; organisations और होटल आयोजित कार्यक्रम आरपार कनाडा, over 5,000 street parties यहूद आयोजित throughout the United Kingdom, and one लाख लोगों lined the रूट between वेस्टमिंस्टर ऐबी और Buckingham राजमहल.
the रस्म थी viewed सजीव by tens of लाखो more around the संसार, including 72 million on the youtube Royal चैनल.
in the संयुक्त किंगडम, television audiences peaked at 26.3 लाख दर्शक, साथ a total of 36.7 लाख watching भाग of the कवरेज.
Vanessa आनन्द Lachey ( née Minnillo ; born नवम्बर 9, 1980 ) is an अमरीकी television व्यक्तित्व, टेलीविज़न मेजबान, फ़ैशन मॉडल, और अभिनेत्री.
minnillo थी भी नामित मिस टीन यूएसए in 1998.
वो रै महरूम a New York -based correspondent लिये Entertainment Tonight and hosted कुल Request सजीव on एमटीवी.
a हाथ ( med. / lat. : manus, pl. manūs ) is a prehensile, multi- fingered extremity स्तिथ at the end of an भुजा or forelimb of primates और इंसानो, chimpanzees, बंदरों, और lemurs.
a few अन्य vertebrates ऐसे as the कोआला ( जिससे has two opposable thumbs on प्रत्येक `` हाथ '' और fingerprints remarkably समान to इंसान फिंगरप्रिंट ) are प्रायः वर्णित as having either `` hands '' or `` paws '' on their सामने limbs.
हैंड्स हैं the प्रमुख structures for physically manipulating the पर्यावरण, used लिये both gross मोटर कौशल ( ऐसे as grasping a large ऑब्जेक्ट ) and ठीक मोटर कौशल ( such as picking up a small कंकड़ ).
the उंगलियों contain कुछ of the densest क्षेत्रों of तंत्रिका endings on the देह, हैं the richest source of tactile प्रतिक्रिया, and have the महानतम positioning capability of the body ; यूँ the sense of टच is intimately associated with hands.
जैसे अन्य paired अंगों ( आँखें, feet, legs ), प्रत्येक hand is dominantly नियंत्रित by the opposing brain hemisphere, so that handedness, or the preferred हाथ choice for single-handed activities ऐसे as writing साथ a pencil, reflects व्यक्तिगत brain कामकाज.
कुछ विकासवादी anatomists use the पद hand to refer to the appendage of अंक on the forelimb more generally — for उदाहरण, in the context of whether the तीन अंक of the बर्ड हाथ शामिल the same homologous loss of two अंक as in the dinosaur हाथ.
the human hand रै 27 हड्डियों, not सहित the sesamoid bones जिससे क्रमांक varies between लोगों.
14 of which are the phalanges ( proximal, intermediate और distal ) of the उंगलियाँ.
the metacarpals are the bones that connects the उंगलियाँ और the कलाई.
प्रत्येक इंसान हाथ रै 5 metacarpals and 8 carpal हड्डियों.
too Cool थी a पेशेवर कुश्ती टैग टोली और former गुट most notably क्रियाशील in संसार कुश्ती Federation/Entertainment between 1998 और 2001 और for a छोटी समय in 2004.
मौलिक digital सचेतक क्लॉक बगैर a रेडियो.
the mark in the top-left of the प्रदर्शक indicates कि the time is 4:00pm, नहीं 4:00am.
a 1969 रेडियो सचेतक क्लॉक ( Sony digimatic 8fc-59w ) साथ an जल्दी mechanical-digital display.
a digital क्लॉक is a प्रकार of क्लॉक that प्रदर्शक the समय डिजिटली, i.e. in numerals or other प्रतीकों, as opposed to an analog क्लॉक, जहाँ the समय is indicated by the positions of घूर्णन हैंड्स.
Digital घड़ियाँ are often संबद्ध साथ इलेक्ट्रॉनिक ड्राइव, लकिन the `` digital '' description refers तभी to the प्रदर्शक, not to the ड्राइव यांत्रिकी.
( Both analog and digital घड़ियाँ can be driven either mechanically or electronically, लकिन `` घटीयंत्र '' mechanisms with डिजिटल प्रदर्शक हैं rare. )
The biggest डिजिटल clock is the lichtzeitpegel ( `` लाइट समय स्तर '' ) on the टेलीविज़न tower Rheinturm düsseldorf, जर्मनी.
Family guy creator सेठ macfarlane also provides the आवाज़ें of पीटर Griffin, Stewie Griffin, ब्रायन Griffin, और Glenn कीचड़.
परिवार guy is an अमरीकी एनिमेटेड sitcom that सुविधाएँ पाँच प्रमुख voice actors, और numerous regular cast and पुनरावर्ती guest stars.
the प्रिंसिपल आवाज़ डाल consists of show creator Seth macfarlane, एलेक्स Borstein, सेठ ग्रीन, mila Kunis ( जो replaced Lacey Chabert बाद the पहला ऋतु ) and Mike Henry और अभी, the नई कर्ता beau ओसबोर्न.
Recurring आवाज़ अभिनेताओं शामिल पैट्रिक warburton, आदम वेस्ट, जॉन G. Brennan, निकोल सुलीवान and जेनिफर tilly, and repeat अतिथि stars include फिलिस Diller, चार्ल्स durning, Rush limbaugh, and फिल LaMarr.
अनेक डाल members provide आवाज़ें for अनेक characters.
the आवाज़ actors, in portraying the विभिन्न अक्षर personalities on the show, चित्रण प्रेरणा इससे हस्तियाँ and पॉप संस्कृति.
परिवार Guy वर्ण have महरूम played by more than एक actor, बाद members of the दिखाएँ left the series or था conflicting दायित्वों.
kunis was nominated for an एनी पुरस्कार for voicing Meg Griffin in the ऋतु 5 episode `` Barely विधिक `` and macfarlane रै भी won an Emmy Award for बकाया voice-over प्रदर्शन और an Annie पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Voice Acting in an एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न Production, हालांकि no other cast सदस्य has won an award लिये उनके work on the series.
the five sets of the board खेल एकाधिकार चित्रित here show the evolution of the खेल 's artwork और designs in the संयुक्त राज्य इससे 1935–2005.
The history of the फलक game Monopoly can be traced back to the जल्दी 20th सदी.
The earliest ज्ञात design थी by the अमरीकी, Elizabeth magie, patented in 1904 लकिन मौजूदा as early as 1902.
magie 's original intent थी to प्रकाशित a board game to illustrate an आर्थिक principle, namely the georgist concept of a सिंगल जमीन मान कर.
A श्रेणी of फलक games were developed from 1906 through the 1930s कि शामिल the buying and selling of जमीन and the development of कि land.
By 1934, a फलक game था महरूम निर्मित much जैसे the संस्करण of एकाधिकार बेची by पार्कर Brothers and इसके सम्बन्धित कंपनियाँ through the rest of the 20th century, और into the 21st.
Several लोगों, ज़्यादातर in the midwestern संयुक्त States और near the East Coast, contributed to the खेल 's design and evolution.
by the 1970s, the विचार कि the खेल had been created solely by Charles darrow था become popular folklore ; it थी printed in the game 's निर्देश लिये अनेक years, in a 1974 किताब devoted to एकाधिकार, and was cited in a सामान्य किताब परिचय खिलौने even as recently as 2007.
भी a मार्गदर्शिका to family games प्रकाशित लिये रीडर 's डाइजेस्ट in 2003 तभी gave क्रेडिट to darrow and Elizabeth magie, erroneously stating that Magie 's असली game थी निर्मित in the 1800s, और not acknowledging कोई of the खेल 's विकास between Magie 's creation of the खेल, and the eventual publication by Parker भाइयो.
भी in the 1970s, Professor Ralph anspach, who था himself प्रकाशित a फलक game intended to illustrate the सिद्धान्त of दोनो monopolies and trust busting, fought Parker भाइयो और इसके then parent कम्पनी, सामान्य मिलों, over the trademarks of the एकाधिकार फलक game.
through the शोध of anspach और अन्य, much of the जल्दी इतिहास of the game थी `` rediscovered ''.
Anspach confronted Maxine ब्रैडी, लेखक of the 1974 किताब the एकाधिकार Book : Strategy and Tactics of the संसार 's सबसे लोकप्रिय खेल over the actual इतिहास of the खेल on Barry farber 's नई यॉर्क नगर talk show in 1975.
क्युकी of the lengthy अदालत process, including appeals, the legal status of पार्कर Brothers ' trademarks on the game was नहीं settled जबतक 1985.
the खेल 's name remains a पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क of पार्कर Brothers, as do its विशिष्ट design elements.
At the निष्कर्ष of the court मामला, the खेल 's लोगो and ग्राफिक डिज़ाइन तत्व became part of a larger एकाधिकार ब्रांड, licensed by पार्कर Brothers ' जनक कंपनियाँ onto a variety of items through the उपस्थित दिन.
Despite the `` rediscovery '' of the फलक खेल 's early history in the 1970s और 1980s, और अनेक किताबे and जर्नल articles on the विषय, Hasbro ( पार्कर भाइयो ' वर्तमान जनक company ) did not acknowledge कोई of the खेल 's history before Charles darrow on इसके official Monopoly जालस्थल as recently as June 2012.
Nor did हास्ब्रो acknowledge anyone other than darrow in materials प्रकाशित or sponsored by उन्हें, at तनिक as recently as 2006.
अंतरराष्ट्रीय tournaments, पहला आयोजित in the early 1970s, continue to the present, साथ the next world चैंपियनशिप संभावित अनुसूचित लिये 2013.
Starting in 1985, a new generation of spin-off फलक games और card खेल appeared on दोनो sides of the Atlantic समंदर.
in 1989, the first of अनेक वीडियो खेल and computer game editions was प्रकाशित.
Since 1994, अनेक official variants of the खेल, based on स्थितियाँ अन्य than Atlantic नगर, नई जर्सी ( the आधिकारिक U.S. सेटिंग ) or London ( the आधिकारिक राष्ट्रमंडल सेटिंग, excepting कनाडा ), have been published by हास्ब्रो or its licensees.
in 2008, Hasbro permanently बदला the रंग scheme and कुछ of the gameplay of the standard U.S. संस्करण of the game to मैच the UK Edition, हालांकि the u.S. मानक संस्करण maintains the अटलांटिक नगर प्रॉपर्टी names.
हास्ब्रो भी परिवर्धित the official लोगो to give the `` Mr. एकाधिकार '' character a 3-d computer-generated dekh, which रै चूंकि been अपनाया by licensees usaopoly, जीतना Moves and जीतना समाधान.
और हास्ब्रो रै भी महरूम सहित the Speed die, introduced in 2006 's Monopoly : the आचमन संस्करण by जीतना Moves खेल, in versions उत्पादित सीधे by हास्ब्रो ( ऐसे as the 2009 चैंपियनशिप Edition ).
in baseball, a sacrifice fly is a batted बॉल कि satisfies चार criteria:
There हैं fewer than दो outs जब the ball is hit.
The बॉल is hit to the आउटफील्ड ( मेला or बेईमानी ), or to infield बेईमानी territory.
The बैटर is put आउट because an outfielder ( or an infielder running in the outfield, or foul territory ) catches the बॉल on the fly ( alternatively if the batter होता have been out if नहीं for an गलती or if the outfielder drops the बॉल और another धावक is put आउट ).
a धावक जो is already on आधार स्कोर on the play.
It is पुकारा a `` बलिदान '' मक्खी because the बैटर presumably intends to cause a teammate to स्कोर a चलाएं, while sacrificing उसके अपना ability to do so.
Minnesota ( ) is a U.S. state स्तिथ in the Midwestern संयुक्त राज्य.
मिनेसोटा was carved आउट of the पूर्वी half of the मिनेसोटा territory और admitted to the संघ as the 32nd राज्य on May 11, 1858.
ज्ञात as the `` जमीन of 10,000 झीलों '', the state 's नाम comes इससे a Dakota word for `` sky-tinted जल ''.
those waters, साथ with वनों, पार्क, और wilderness क्षेत्रों, प्रस्ताव निवासियों and tourists a किस्में of बाहरी recreational opportunities.
Minnesota is the 12th सबसे extensive और the 21st सबसे populous of the u.S. states.
nearly 60 % of इसके निवासियों live in the minneapolis–saint पॉल महानगर क्षेत्रफल ( ज्ञात as the `` Twin Cities '' ), the बीच of परिवहन, business, industry, शिक्षा, सरकारी और घर to an internationally ज्ञात arts community.
the remainder of the state consists of पश्चिमी prairies now दिए over to intensive agriculture ; पतझड़ी forests in the southeast, अभी cleared, farmed और settled ; and the less आबादी North वुड्स, प्रयुक्त for खनन, वानिकी, और recreation.
Minnesota is known for its अपेक्षाकृत mixed सोशल और political orientations, और रै a ऊँची रेट of नागरिक participation और वोटर turnout.
मिनेसोटा ranks among the healthiest राज्य, और रै a highly साक्षर population.
the large बहुमत of निवासियों हैं of scandinavian और German descent.
The state is ज्ञात as a बीच of Scandinavian अमरीकी संस्कृति.
जातीय विविधता रै increased in हाल decades.
Substantial influxes of एशियाई, अफ़्रीकी, और Latin American आप्रवासियों have joined the वंशजों of European settlers and the असली देशी American निवासियों.
Grants हैं non-repayable निधि by एक पार्टी ( ग्रान्ट makers ), often a government विभाग, निगम, foundation or trust, to a, प्रायः ( but not सदा ) a nonprofit एंटिटी, educational institution, कारोबार or an individual.
In order to प्राप्त a grant, कुछ रूप of `` ग्रान्ट Writing '' प्रायः referred to as either a प्रस्ताव or an application is usually जरूरी.
Most अनुदान are made to fund a specific प्रोजेक्ट and require कुछ स्तर of compliance और रिपोर्टिंग.
the ग्रान्ट writing process involves an आवेदक submitting a proposal ( or submission ) to a potential funder, either on the आवेदक 's own पहल or in जवाब to a Request लिये प्रस्ताव इससे the funder.
Other अनुदान can be दिए to individuals, ऐसे as पीड़ितों of प्राकृतिक disasters or individuals who seek to open a छोटी business.
Sometimes grant makers आवश्यकता ग्रान्ट seekers to have some रूप of tax-exempt औकात, be a registered nonprofit संगठन or a लोकल government.
For उदाहरण, tiered funding for a फ्रीवे हैं बहुत large grants negotiated at government नीति स्तर.
however छोटी grants may be provided by a government एजेंसी ( e.g. municipal सरकारी ).
project-related funding involving सरकारें, कारोबार, समुदायों, and individuals is often arranged by application either in लिखने or ऑनलाइन.
Naturally occurring कोबाल्ट ( co ) is composed of 1 stable isotope, 59co. 28 radioisotopes have महरूम characterized with the सबसे stable being 60Co साथ a half-life of 5.2714 years, 57Co साथ a half-life of 271.79 दिनों, 56co with a half-life of 77.27 days, और 58co with a half-life of 70.86 दिनों.
सब of the remaining रेडियोसक्रिय isotopes have half-lives that हैं less than 18 hours and the बहुमत of ये have half-lives कि are less than 1 दूसरी.
This तत्व also रै 11 मेटा states, सब of जिससे have half-lives less than 15 minutes.
The isotopes of कोबाल्ट range in atomic वज़न from 47co to 75Co.
the प्राथमिक decay mode लिये isotopes साथ atomic द्रव्यमान unit values कम than that of the सबसे abundant stable समस्थानिक, 59co, is इलेक्ट्रॉन कैप्चर और the primary विधि of क्षय लिये those of greater than 59 परमाणु द्रव्यमान इकाई is beta क्षय.
the प्राथमिक क्षय उत्पाद before 59co हैं आयरन isotopes और the primary उत्पाद बाद हैं nickel isotopes.
Standard परमाणु mass : 58.933195 ( 5 ) u
जो स्थानांतरित my Cheese ?
An अद्भुत Way to Deal with बदलें in Your कार्य और in अपना Life, published in 1998, is a प्रेरक किताब by स्पेंसर Johnson written in the style of a मिसाल or business fable.
it describes change in one 's work और जीवन, and four ठेठ प्रतिक्रियाएँ to कहा बदलें by दो mice और two `` littlepeople '', during उनके hunt for cheese.
a नई York Times business बेस्टसेलर चूंकि रिलीज, जो Moved My चीज ?
remained on the सूची लिये लगभग पाँच सालो और खर्च over 200 weeks on Publishers साप्ताहिक 's सजिल्द nonfiction सूची.
it रै sold अधिक than 26 million नक़ल विश्वव्यापी in 37 भाषाएं and remains to be एक of the best-selling कारोबार books.
निकिता sergeyevich khrushchev ( – सितंबर 11, 1971 ) led the सोवियत Union during भाग of the ठंडा युद्ध.
he परोसा as पहला सचिव of the Communist पार्टी of the सोवियत Union इससे 1953 to 1964, और as अध्यक्ष of the Council of मंत्रियों, or प्रीमियर, इससे 1958 to 1964.
Khrushchev was responsible लिये the partial de-stalinization of the Soviet संघ, लिये बैकिंग the प्रगति of the जल्दी Soviet space कार्यक्रम, and लिये several relatively उदार reforms in areas of घरेलू नीति.
khrushchev 's party colleagues removed उसे इससे शक्ति in 1964, replacing उसे साथ लियोनिद Brezhnev as पहला सचिव and Alexei Kosygin as प्रीमियर.
khrushchev थी born in the रूसी गाँव of kalinovka in 1894, बंद to the present-day किनारा between Russia और Ukraine.
He थी employed as a metalworker in उसके youth, और during the रूसी सिविल युद्ध थी a राजनैतिक commissar.
साथ the सहायता of lazar Kaganovich, he worked उसके रास्ता up the सोवियत पदानुक्रम.
he समर्थित जोसेफ Stalin 's purges, और approved thousands of रखवाले.
in 1939, स्टालिन भेजा उसे to govern Ukraine, and he जारी the purges there.
During what was known in the Soviet Union as the Great Patriotic युद्ध ( Eastern Front of संसार War ii ), khrushchev थी again a commissar, serving as an intermediary between स्टालिन और his generals.
Khrushchev थी present at the खूनी रक्षा of stalingrad, a fact he took ग्रेट अभिमान in throughout उसके life.
बाद the युद्ध, he returned to युक्त पहले होने recalled to Moscow as एक of स्टालिन 's close advisers.
in the शक्ति struggle triggered by स्टालिन 's मौत in 1953, khrushchev, बाद अनेक सालो, उभरा विजयी.
on February 25, 1956, at the 20th पार्टी Congress, he delivered the `` Secret Speech, '' denouncing स्टालिन 's purges and ushering in a कम repressive era in the सोवियत संघ.
उसके domestic policies, aimed at bettering the lives of ordinary नागरिकों, यहूद often अप्रभावी, विशेषकर in the क्षेत्रफल of कृषि.
Hoping आखिरकार to rely on missiles लिये national defense, khrushchev ordered major कटौती in conventional शक्तियां.
Despite the कटौती, khrushchev 's नियम देखी the tensest सालो of the Cold War, culminating in the Cuban मिसाइल Crisis.
Some of khrushchev 's नीतियों were देखी as erratic, विशेषकर by उसके उभरते विरोधियों, जो quietly rose in शक्ति और अपदस्थ उसे in अक्तूबर 1964.
he किया नहीं suffer the घातक fate of some previous losers of सोवियत शक्ति struggles, लकिन थी pensioned off साथ an apartment in मास्को and a dacha in the countryside.
उसके lengthy memoirs यहूद smuggled to the वेस्ट और प्रकाशित in भाग in 1970.
khrushchev died in 1971 of heart बीमारी.
अपर जठरांत्र ( gi ) bleeding refers to hemorrhage in the अपर जठरांत्र ट्रैक्ट.
the anatomic cut-off लिये अपर GI bleeding is the ligament of treitz, जिससे connects the चौथी portion of the duodenum to the diaphragm near the splenic flexure of the कोलन.
अपर GI bleeds are considered medical emergencies, and आवश्यकता admission to हॉस्पिटल लिये urgent diagnosis और प्रबन्धन.
due to अग्रिम in medications और endoscopy, अपर gi hemorrhage is now usually treated without सर्जरी.
संसार जनसांख्यिकी estimates from 1800 to 2100, based on un 2010 projections ( रेड, नारंगी, green ) and us Census ब्यूरो ऐतिहासिक estimates ( black ).
Actual अंकित जनसांख्यिकी आंकड़े हैं in blue.
according to the highest अनुमान, the world population may rise to 16 अरब by 2100 ; according to the न्यूनतम estimate, it may decline to 6 billion.
The संसार जनसांख्यिकी is the कुल क्रमांक of living humans on Earth.
as of आज, it is estimated to क्रमांक अरब by the United राज्य Census ब्यूरो ( USCB ).
the uscb estimates कि the संसार population exceeded 7 अरब on March 12, 2012.
According to a पृथक estimate by the संयुक्त Nations जनसांख्यिकी निधि, it पहुँचे इस पड़ाव on अक्तूबर 31, 2011.
the संसार population रै अनुभवी निरन्तर growth since the end of the Great अकाल and the ब्लैक मौत in 1350, when it stood at around 370 लाख.
The highest दरों of विकास – वैश्विक population increases above 1.8 % प्रति year – यहूद देखी briefly दौरान the 1950s, और लिये a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s.
The विकास rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, और था अस्वीकृत to 1.1 % by 2011.
कुल annual births यहूद highest in the लेट 1980s at परिचय 138 लाख, और are अभी expected to remain essentially निरंतर at उनके 2011 level of 134 लाख, जबकि deaths क्रमांक 56 लाख per साल, और हैं expected to बढ़ाएँ to 80 लाख प्रति year by 2040.
Current projections दिखाएँ a जारी increase in जनसांख्यिकी in the निकट भविष्य ( लकिन a स्थिर मनाही in the जनसांख्यिकी growth rate ), साथ the वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
विभिन्न longer-term estimates भविष्यवाणी further विकास, stagnation, or भी overall मनाही in the global जनसांख्यिकी by 2150.
कुछ विश्लेषकों have questioned the स्थिरता of further संसार population growth, citing the growing pressures on the environment, वैश्विक food आपूर्तियाँ, और उर्जा संसाधन.
Philips lumileds lighting कम्पनी is the manufacturer of a wide दायरा of high-power/high-efficiency light-emitting diodes ( LEDs ).
it is a अभी a fully owned प्रभाग of Philips lighting.
knuckle mnemonic for the क्रमांक of days in प्रत्येक माह of the Gregorian पंचांग.
प्रत्येक projecting knuckle represents a 31-day माह.
A mnemonic (, साथ a मूक `` m '' ), or mnemonic device, is कोई सीखना तकनीक कि aids सूचना retention.
mnemonics उद्देश्य to अनुवाद सूचना into a रूप कि the इंसान brain can retain better than इसके असली form.
भी the प्रक्रम of applying इस परिवर्तन might already सहायता the ट्रांसफ़र of सूचना to long-term memory.
Commonly encountered mnemonics हैं प्रायः for lists और in auditory form, such as short poems, acronyms, or यादगार phrases, लकिन mnemonics can भी be for other types of सूचना and in विज़ुअल or kinesthetic forms.
उनके उपयोग is आधारित on the observation कि the human mind more easily remembers spatial, personal, surprising, शारीरिक, यौन, humorous, or वरना 'relatable ' information, rather than more abstract or impersonal फ़ॉर्म of information.
the word mnemonic is derived इससे the प्राचीन Greek word μνημονικός ( mnēmonikos ), अर्थ `` of मेमोरी '' and is सम्बन्धित to mnemosyne ( `` remembrance '' ), the नाम of the देवी of memory in Greek mythology.
दोनो of ये शब्द are derived from μνήμη ( mnēmē ), `` स्मरण, मेमोरी ''.
Mnemonics in antiquity were सबसे often considered in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of कया is today ज्ञात as the Art of memory.
प्राचीन यूनानियों और romans विशिष्ट between दो प्रकार of मेमोरी : the 'natural ' memory और the 'artificial ' memory.
the पूर्व is inborn, और is the एक that everyone uses automatically और without सोच.
The कृत्रिम memory in कंट्रास्ट रै to be trained और विकसित through the learning and practicing of a किस्में of mnemonic तकनीकों.
mnemonic प्रणालियों are special तकनीकों or strategies consciously प्रयुक्त to improve मेमोरी, it helps employ सूचना already भंडारित in long-term मेमोरी to मेक memorization an easier task.
President Bush हस्ताक्षर the No चाइल्ड बाएँ पीछे Act at हैमिल्टन h.s. in हैमिल्टन, Ohio.
the No चाइल्ड Left पीछे अधिनियम of 2001 ( nclb ) is a संयुक्त राज्य अधिनियम of Congress कि is a reauthorization of the elementary and द्वितीयक Education Act, जिससे included Title i, the सरकारी 's फ्लैगशिप aid कार्यक्रम for disadvantaged विद्यार्थी.
NCLB supports standards-based शिक्षा सुधार आधारित on the premise कि सेटिंग ऊँची मानकों और establishing measurable लक्ष्य can improve individual outcomes in education.
the Act requires राज्य to develop आकलन in मौलिक कौशल.
राज्य must give ये आकलन to all विद्यार्थी at चुनें ग्रेड स्तर in अनुक्रम to receive संघीय school funding.
the Act करता नहीं assert a national achievement मानक ; मानकों are नियत by each individual राज्य.
NCLB विस्तारित the federal role in पब्लिक शिक्षा through सालाना testing, सालाना academic प्रगति, report cards, टीचर योग्यता, और funding परिवर्तन.
the विधेयक passed in the u.S. कॉंग्रेस साथ bipartisan support.
Dodge b श्रेणी utility circa 1950, driven by अल्बर्ट Namatjira
A pickup ट्रक or pick-up, प्रायः बस referred to as a pickup, is a लाइट मोटर vehicle साथ an open-top, पश्च कार्गो क्षेत्रफल ( bed ).
In North अमेरिका, the पद पिकअप is used for light ट्रक with a हल्का duty chassis और फैक्टरी निर्मित, integrated bed, as well as for coupé यूटिलिटी वाहनों, प्रायः आधारित on a personal car chassis, but भी प्रायः on a special dedicated chassi लिये such उपयोग.
कुछ देशों have उनके own terms समान to pickup, such as ute in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और नई Zealand, or bakkie in South अफ़्रीकी.
Large पिकअप trucks हैं somewhat विरल in यूरोपीय, जहाँ वैन और लाइट lorries हैं commonly प्रयुक्त लिये similar भूमिकाएँ.
इस 15th-century depiction of Charlemagne and Pope Adrian I shows a well-bred medieval horse साथ मेहराबदार गर्दन, परिष्कृत head और सुरुचिपूर्ण gait.
Horses in the Middle Ages differed in आकार, build and नस्ल from the आधुनिक घोड़ा, और were, on average, smaller.
वे यहूद भी अधिक सेंट्रल to society than उनके modern counterparts, being essential for war, कृषि, and हस्तांतरण.
नतीजतन, विशिष्ट प्रकार of घोड़ा developed, अनेक of which have no modern equivalent.
जबकि an understanding of modern घोड़ा breeds and equestrianism is vital लिये कोई analysis of the मध्यकालीन घोड़ा, शोधकर्ताओं also need to consider documentary ( दोनो written और सचित्र ) and पुरातत्व प्रमाण.
Horses in the मध्य आयु were rarely differentiated by नस्ल, लकिन rather by उपयोग.
This led उन्हें to be described, लिये उदाहरण, as `` chargers `` ( युद्ध घोड़े ), `` palfreys `` ( सवारी घोड़े ), cart घोड़े or packhorses.
सन्दर्भ is भी given to उनके place of उत्पत्ति, such as `` Spanish घोड़े, '' लकिन whether इस referred to एक breed or several is अनजान.
another परेशानी arising during कोई study of मध्यकालीन दस्तावेज़ or साहित्य is the लचीलापन of the medieval languages, जहाँ अनेक शब्द can be प्रयुक्त लिये one thing ( or, conversely, अनेक objects are referred to by one word ).
Words ऐसे as ' courser ' और 'charger ' हैं used interchangeably ( भी भीतर एक document ), and जहाँ one epic may speak disparagingly of a rouncey, another praises इसके कौशल and swiftness.
Significant technological अग्रिम in equestrian उपकरण, प्रायः introduced इससे अन्य संस्कृतियों, allowed for significant परिवर्तन in both warfare और कृषि.
In particular, improved डिजाइन for the solid-treed काठी as well as the आगमन of the रकाब, नाल और घोड़ा कॉलर यहूद significant अग्रिम in मध्यकालीन society.
नतीजतन, the assumptions और theories विकसित by इतिहासकारों are not definitive, and बहस स्टिल rages on अनेक मुद्दे, ऐसे as the प्रजनन or आकार of the horse, और a क्रमांक of sources जरूर be consulted in अनुक्रम to समझे the breadth of the subject.
the म्यूज़िक man is a musical with book, music, और lyrics by Meredith willson, आधारित on a स्टोरी by Willson और Franklin लेसी.
the प्लाट concerns con man हेरोल्ड हिल, जो मुद्राएँ as a लड़कों ' बैंड आयोजक और leader और बिकता बैंड instruments और वर्दी to naive townsfolk पहले skipping town साथ the cash.
in नदी नगर, Iowa, prim लाइब्रेरियन और पियानो टीचर Marian paroo sees through him, लकिन जब हिल helps her younger brother overcome his भय of social interactions due to his लिस्प, Marian begins to fall in love साथ हेरोल्ड.
हेरोल्ड, in फेरे गिरना लिये marian, risks होने caught to जीत उसके.
in 1957, the दिखाएँ became a hit on Broadway, winning पाँच Tony पुरस्कार, सहित Best musical, and कार्यशील for 1,375 performances.
The cast एल्बम जीती the पहला Grammy Award लिये `` बेहतरीन असली डाल एल्बम '' and थी number एक on the Billboard चार्ट for 245 सप्ताह.
the दिखाएँ 's कामयाबी led to revivals and a popular 1962 film adaptation and a 2003 टेलीविज़न रीमेक.
it frequently is उत्पादित by दोनो पेशेवर and amateur थिएटर कंपनियाँ.
निरीक्षक 's wheel
a surveyor 's व्हील, भी पुकारा a clickwheel, hodometer, waywiser, trundle wheel, measuring व्हील, or perambulator is a device लिये measuring distance.
Largest non-polar रेगिस्तान
बालू टीले in the rub ' al Khali ( `` खाली क्वार्टर '' ) of Saudi अरब.
makhtesh रेमन, Negev मरुस्थल, Israel
A desert is a landscape or प्रदेश of जमीन कि is बहुत शुष्क because of कम वर्षा amounts ( precipitation ), often has little कवरेज by पौधे, और in जिससे streams dry up unless they are supplied by water from बाहर क्षेत्रों.
रेगिस्तान can also be वर्णित as क्षेत्रों where अधिक जल is खोया by evapotranspiration than जलप्रपात as precipitation.
मरुस्थल पौधे जरूर have special adaptations to जीवित with इस little जल.
रेगिस्तान generally प्राप्त कम than 25 cm of बरसात ( वर्षण ) प्रत्येक year.
Semideserts or steppes हैं regions which प्राप्त between and.
in the köppen जलवायु वर्गीकरण प्रणाली, रेगिस्तान are classed as bwh ( hot मरुस्थल ) or BWk ( शीतोष्ण मरुस्थल ).
in the thornthwaite climate classification प्रणाली, रेगिस्तान would be classified as arid megathermal climates.
World War i ( wwi ) थी a global war केंद्रित in यूरोपीय कि began on 28 जुलाई 1914 और lasted जबतक 11 नवम्बर 1918.
It was predominantly called the संसार युद्ध or the ग्रेट युद्ध from its occurrence until the प्रारंभ of संसार War ii in 1939, and the First संसार युद्ध or संसार युद्ध I thereafter.
It involved सब the संसार 's great शक्तियां, जिससे were समवेत in दो opposing alliances : the allies ( आधारित on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom, फ़्रांस और रूस ) and the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the ट्रिपल Alliance of जर्मनी, austria-hungary और Italy ; but, as austria–hungary had taken the अप्रिय विरूद्ध the अनुबंध, Italy did not डालें into the युद्ध ).
ये alliances यहूद दोनो reorganised और विस्तारित as more nations entered the war : Italy, Japan and the United States joined the allies, and the उस्मानी Empire और बुल्गारिया the सेंट्रल Powers.
ultimately, अधिक than 70 million सैन्य कर्मियों, सहित 60 लाख europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest युद्धों in history.
अधिक than 9 लाख combatants were मारे, largely because of technological advancements कि led to enormous increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर सम्बन्धित सुधार in protection or mobility.
it was the fifth- deadliest विरोध in संसार इतिहास, subsequently paving the way लिये विभिन्न political परिवर्तन, ऐसे as revolutions in many of the राष्ट्र involved.
One of the long-term कल्याणकारी of the युद्ध was the पुनरुत्थान of imperialism in the विदेशी नीतियों of the ग्रेट शक्तियां of यूरोपीय.
More तत्काल, the assassination of archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, the वारिस to the सिंहासन of austria-hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव nationalist gavrilo Princip in साराजेवो triggered a राजनयिक संकट जब Austria-Hungary subsequently वितरित an ultimatum to the किंगडम of Serbia.
अनेक alliances formed over the previous decades यहूद invoked.
भीतर weeks, the प्रमुख शक्तियां यहूद at war और, via their colonies, the विरोध जल्द स्प्रेड around the संसार.
On 28 July, the austro-hungarians fired the पहला shots of the युद्ध as preparation लिये the आक्रमण of Serbia.
जबकि the Russians mobilised, the germans invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम and ध्वज on the रास्ता to France, providing a casus belli for ब्रिटेन 's घोषणा of युद्ध विरूद्ध Germany.
After the German कूच on पेरिस थी brought to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the marne —the पश्चिमी Front settled into a static battle of attrition साथ a गर्त लकीर that बदला छोटी जबतक 1917.
on the पूर्वी सामने, the Russian army was कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians, लकिन थी stopped in its आक्रमण of ईस्ट prussia by the Germans.
in November the Ottoman साम्राज्य joined the war, खोलने up fronts in the काकेशस, Mesopotamia और the sinai.
Italy और Bulgaria went to युद्ध in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
In रूस, the tsar 's government collapsed in कूच 1917 और a subsequent revolution in नवम्बर brought the russians to शर्तें साथ the Central शक्तियां.
After a 1918 German अप्रिय साथ the पश्चिमी front, the allies drove back the Germans in a series of कामयाब offensives and अमरीकी forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, जिससे था its अपना ट्रबल with revolutionaries, सहमत to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
the युद्ध ended in विजय for the Allies.
कार्यक्रम on the घर fronts were as tumultuous as on the बैटल fronts, as the भागीदार tried to mobilize their manpower और आर्थिक संसाधन to लड़ो a कुल युद्ध.
By the समाप्त of the युद्ध, four प्रमुख इम्पीरियल powers—the German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian और उस्मानी empires—ceased to मौजूद.
the successor राज्य of the former two lost a ग्रेट राशि of territory, जबकि the latter दो were dismantled entirely.
The map of सेंट्रल यूरोपीय was redrawn into अनेक छोटी राज्य.
The लीग of राष्ट्र थी formed in the आशा of preventing another such विरोध.
the European राष्ट्रवाद शाखित by the war और the ब्रेकअप of empires, the repercussions of Germany 's defeat और समस्याएं with the सन्धि of Versailles are agreed to be कारकों contributing to संसार युद्ध ii.
`` लड़कियों Just want to Have मजा '' is a 1979 song originally लिखा by रॉबर्ट Hazard और made प्रसिद्ध by singer Cyndi lauper.
it was the first प्रमुख सिंगल released by lauper as a solo कलाकार और the lead-off single from उसके डेब्यू album She 's So Unusual.
lauper’s संस्करण gained मान्यता as a feminist गान और प्रचारित by an award-winning video.
It has महरूम covered on either an एल्बम or in सजीव concert by over 30 other artists.
the single was Lauper 's भेदन hit, reaching # 2 on the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 और becoming a worldwide hit throughout late 1983 और early 1984.
it remains एक of lauper 's हस्ताक्षर songs और थी a widely लोकप्रिय सोंग during the era of इसके रिलीज, the 1980s.
the `` रोलिंग Stone & एमटीवी : '100 Greatest Pop Songs ' : 1-50 '', `` रोलिंग Stone : `` the 100 Top Music वीडियो '' '' और the `` vh1 : 100 Greatest वीडियो '' lists ranked the song at # 22, # 39 and # 45, क्रमशः.
the song प्राप्त a Grammy पुरस्कार nomination लिये रिकार्ड of the Year and बेहतरीन मादा Pop Vocal Performance.
दृश्य of defibrillator एलेक्ट्रोड position and अवस्थिति.
defibrillation is a आम उपचार for life-threatening हृदय dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, and pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic खुराक of electrical उर्जा to the affected heart साथ a यंत्र पुकारा a defibrillator.
इस depolarizes a नाजुक mass of the दिल मांसपेशी, terminates the dysrhythmia, and allows सामान्य sinus rhythm to be reestablished by the body 's natural pacemaker, in the sinoatrial नोड of the दिल.
Defibrillators can be बाह्य, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the प्रकार of यंत्र प्रयुक्त or needed.
कुछ external units, ज्ञात as automated बाह्य defibrillators ( AEDs ), automate the diagnosis of treatable rhythms, meaning कि lay responders or bystanders are समर्थ to उपयोग उन्हें successfully with छोटी, or in some cases no प्रशिक्षण at सब.
The केटो संस्थान is an American libertarian सोचो टैंक headquartered in वॉशिंगटन, d.c.
It थी founded as the चार्ल्स Koch न्यास in 1974 by Murray rothbard, Ed क्रेन और Charles Koch, chairman of the फलक और मुख्य कार्यपालिका अधिकारी of the संगुटिका koch उद्योग, Inc..
In जुलाई 1976, the name थी बदला to the केटो संस्थान.
According to the 2011 Global go to सोचो Tank Index, Cato is the 6th सबसे influential us based सोचो tank, रैंकिंग 3rd in आर्थिक नीति और 2nd in Social Policy.
the संस्थान 's stated मिशन is `` to बढ़ाएँ the understanding of पब्लिक policies based on the सिद्धान्त of सीमित सरकारी, free बाज़ार, व्यक्तिगत स्वतंत्रता, और peace.
the संस्थान होगा उपयोग the most effective means to originate, advocate, प्रचार, और disseminate applicable policy प्रस्ताव that बनाएँ फ़्री, खोलें, and civil समाजों in the संयुक्त राज्य और throughout the संसार. ''
Cato scholars यहूद नाजुक of जार्ज W. Bush 's रिपब्लिकन administration ( 2001–2009 ) on अनेक issues, सहित the इराकी War, सिविल liberties, शिक्षा, agriculture, energy नीति, and excessive सरकारी बिता.
On अन्य मुद्दे, they समर्थित बुश प्रशासन initiatives, सबसे notably स्वास्थ्य परवाह, Social Security, वैश्विक वार्मिंग, tax नीति, and immigration.
दौरान the 2008 u.S. presidential चुनाव, केटो विद्वानों criticized दोनो major-party candidates, John मैक्केन और बराक ओबामा.
केटो रै criticized President ओबामा 's stances on नीति मुद्दे चूंकि उसके उद्घाटन, ऐसे as फिस्कल stimulus, healthcare reform, विदेशी policy, and the युद्ध on Drugs, जबकि supporting उसके stance on the repeal of Do n't Ask, Do n't बताना and उदार आव्रजन नीति.
ड्रैकुला is an 1897 Gothic हॉरर अनोखा by आयरिश author ब्राम Stoker.
प्रसिद्ध लिये introducing the अक्षर of the पिशाच Count ड्रैकुला, the novel tells the स्टोरी of ड्रैकुला 's attempt to relocate इससे Transylvania to England, और the बैटल between ड्रैकुला और a small समूह of men and महिलाओं led by Professor Abraham Van helsing.
ड्रैकुला रै महरूम आबंटित to अनेक literary जाति सहित पिशाच साहित्य, हॉरर fiction, the गोथिक अनोखा and invasion साहित्य.
The अनोखा छू on themes ऐसे as the भूमिका of women in विक्टोरियन संस्कृति, यौन प्रथाओं, immigration, उपनिवेशवाद, और post-colonialism.
हालांकि Stoker did not invent the पिशाच, he defined इसके आधुनिक form, और the अनोखा रै शाखित numerous theatrical, film and टेलीविज़न interpretations.
Quidditch is a competitive खेल in the wizarding संसार of the हैरी Potter universe, और is from the श्रेणी of children 's novels और movies.
it is an अत्यधिक अशिष्ट लकिन very लोकप्रिय semi-contact खेल, निभाई by wizards और witches.
मिलान are played between two टीमों of seven खिलाड़ी सवारी flying broomsticks, using four गेंदें and छह elevated ring-shaped लक्ष्य, तीन on प्रत्येक side of the Quidditch pitch ( field ).
in the Harry कुम्हार universe, Quidditch holds a fervent following similar to the position कि संघ फ़ुटबॉल holds as a globally लोकप्रिय खेल.
the खेल is monumental throughout the wizarding world.
हैरी plays an important position for उसके house टोली at Hogwarts : he is the seeker और becomes the captain in उसके sixth year वहीँ.
Regional और international प्रतियोगिताओं are mentioned throughout the series.
In प्याला of आग, Quidditch at Hogwarts is रद्द for the tri-wizard Tournament, but हैरी और the weasleys attend the quidditch संसार कप.
in जोड, हैरी उपयोग उसके quidditch skills to कैप्चर a सुनहरी अंडा from a ड्रैगन पुकारा the हंगेरियाई horntail ( in the पहला कार्य of the tri-wizard Tournament ), to capture a उड़ती कुंजी in Philosopher 's स्टोन, and on two कुंजी occasions in deathly hallows — getting hold of ravenclaw 's Diadem, and दौरान the final लड़ो with Voldemort — the `` unerring कौशल of the seeker '' is useful to उसे in snatching the elder Wand out of the air.
Harry कुम्हार has owned two broomsticks, the nimbus 2000 and the Firebolt, दोनो of which are नष्ट by the series ' समाप्त.
the खेल रै been अपनाया in the रियल संसार in the रूप of मगलू Quidditch.
the United राज्य कॉंग्रेस is the bicameral legislature of the federal government of the संयुक्त States consisting of दो houses : the lower house ज्ञात as the House of Representatives और the अपर हाउस ज्ञात as the सीनेट.
कॉंग्रेस meets in the कैपिटल in वॉशिंगटन, d.c.
दोनो representatives और senators हैं चुनी through सीधा election.
Congress has a कुल of 535 voting सदस्यों : 435 सदस्यों in the House of प्रतिनिधि और 100 सदस्यों in the सीनेट.
सदस्यों of the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि serve two-year शर्तें representing the लोगों of a ज़िला.
congressional districts हैं apportioned to राज्य by population using the संयुक्त States Census परिणाम, each state in the union having at least एक representative in the हाउस of Representatives.
regardless of population, प्रत्येक of the 50 राज्य has two senators ; the 100 सीनेटरों प्रत्येक serve a six-year term.
the शर्तें are staggered so प्रत्येक दो सालो लगभग one-third of the Senate is up लिये election.
प्रत्येक staggered group of one-third of the सीनेटरों हैं पुकारा 'classes '.
No राज्य of the संयुक्त States रै two senators इससे the same क्लास.
सबसे incumbents seek re-election, and their ऐतिहासिक likelihood of जीतना subsequent चुनावों exceeds 90 percent.
in August 2012, a gallup poll reported that Congress’s approval दरजा amongst Americans was at 10 %, मिलान a 38-year low पहुँचे in नवम्बर 2011.
`` A छोटी More देश Than That '' is the title of a song written by Joey + रोरी 's रोरी Lee Feek, Wynn varble, और Don Poythress, और अंकित by अमरीकी देश artist ईस्टन कोर्बिन.
It थी released in अगस्त 2009 as कोर्बिन 's डेब्यू सिंगल और is included on उसके self-titled डेब्यू album.
in April 2010, the सोंग reached क्रमांक One on the देश म्यूज़िक चार्ट, making Corbin the पहला पुरूष सोलो कलाकार in seven सालो to भेजें a debut single to Number एक.
It रै महरूम certified सुनहरा by the RIAA.
the BlackBerry is a लकीर of बेतार handheld devices और services designed और marketed by शोध In गति सीमित ( रिम ) operating as ब्लैकबेरी.
The पहला BlackBerry device, an email pager, थी released in 1999 ; the most recent ब्लैकबेरी devices, the z10 और q10, यहूद announced on January 30, 2013.
The user इंटरफ़ेस varies by model ; सबसे विशेषता a शारीरिक क्वर्टी keyboard, जबकि नए पीढियां have relied on a multi-touch screen and virtual keyboard.
a BlackBerry can shoot video, लो photos, play म्यूज़िक, and perform ऑनलाइन कृत्यों such as web-browsing और emailing.
They can also भेजें और प्राप्त धक्का ईमेल and instant messages while maintaining a high स्तर of सुरक्षा through on-device message encryption, और हैं designed to function as personal डिजिटल assistants.
BlackBerry डिवाइस support a विशाल variety of instant messaging features, साथ the most popular होने the proprietary ब्लैकबेरी Messenger service.
the ब्लैकबेरी playbook is a tablet computer offered by the कम्पनी.
The 100 millionth BlackBerry स्मार्टफोन was shipped in जून quarter of 2010 and the 200 millionth स्मार्टफोन थी shipped in सितंबर क्वार्टर of 2012.
ब्लैकबेरी खाते for 3 % of मोबाईल यंत्र बिक्री विश्वव्यापी in 2011, बनाना इसके manufacturer the छठे सबसे लोकप्रिय device मेकर ( 25 % of मोबाईल यंत्र बिक्री हैं स्मार्टफ़ोन ).
the उपभोक्ता ब्लैकबेरी Internet Service is available in 91 देशों worldwide on over 500 मोबाईल सेवा operators using विभिन्न मोबाईल technologies.
as of सितंबर 2012, वहीँ यहूद अस्सी million सदस्य विश्वव्यापी to ब्लैकबेरी.
In 2011 the Caribbean और लैटिन अमेरिका had the उच्चतम penetrations of BlackBerry smartphones विश्वव्यापी, with up to परिचय 45 per cent in the region having a RIM यंत्र.
ब्लैकबेरी, iphone, Android, और Windows फोन हैं considered the चार प्रमुख स्मार्टफोन ब्रांड्स.
ब्लैकबेरी is widely referred to as `` crackberry '' in the संयुक्त States, जिससे alludes to इसके excessive उपयोग by इसके owners and is a reference to the addictiveness of crack cocaine.
उपयोग of the term CrackBerry became so फैली कि in नवम्बर 2006 वेबस्टर 's New संसार कॉलेज Dictionary named `` crackberry '' the `` नई Word of the साल. ''
an example of a माँग वक्र shifting.
the shift इससे d1 to d2 अर्थात् an बढ़ाएँ in माँग साथ consequences for the अन्य परिवर्तनीय
in अर्थशास्त्र, the demand curve is the आलेख depicting the संबंध between the price of a निश्चित कमोडिटी और the amount of it that उपभोक्ता हैं willing and समर्थ to purchase at कि दिए दाम.
it is a ग्राफिक प्रतिनिधित्व of a माँग अनुसूची.
the माँग curve for all उपभोक्ता साथ फ़ॉलो from the माँग वक्र of every व्यक्तिगत consumer : the व्यक्तिगत demands at each price हैं added together.
Demand वक्र are प्रयुक्त to estimate behaviors in प्रतिस्पर्धी बाज़ार, and हैं प्रायः संयुक्त with सप्लाई वक्र to estimate the संतुलन दाम ( the price at which sellers together हैं willing to sell the वही amount as buyers together हैं willing to ख़रीदे, also ज्ञात as मार्केट clearing दाम ) and the संतुलन मात्रा ( the राशि of that शुभ or service कि होगा be उत्पादित and खरीदा बगैर surplus/excess supply or shortage/excess माँग ) of कि market.
In a monopolistic मार्केट, the demand curve facing the monopolist is simply the market demand curve.
Historia
by nikolaos gysis ( 1892 )
History ( इससे Greek - historia, meaning `` पूछताछ, knowledge acquired by छानबीन '' ) is an umbrella term कि relates to पास्ट events as well as the discovery, संग्रहण, organization, और presentation of information परिचय these events.
The पद includes लौकिक, geologic, and सशुल्क history, लकिन is often generically implied to mean इंसान इतिहास.
Scholars who write परिचय history हैं पुकारा इतिहासकारों.
History can भी refer to the academic अनुशासन जिससे uses a narrative to examine and analyse a sequence of पास्ट events, और objectively determine the पैटर्न of कारण और effect कि determine उन्हें.
इतिहासकारों sometimes debate the nature of इतिहास और इसके उपयोगिता by discussing the पढ़ाई of the अनुशासन as an समाप्त in itself and as a रास्ता of providing `` perspective '' on the समस्याएं of the present.
Stories आम to a particular संस्कृति, लकिन नहीं समर्थित by external स्त्रोत ( such as the किस्से surrounding King आर्थर ) are प्रायः classified as सांस्कृतिक विरासत or महापुरूष, क्युकी they do not support the `` disinterested investigation '' required of the discipline of history.
Events occurring prior to लिखा रिकार्ड हैं considered prehistory.
Herodotus, a 5th सदी b.c. Greek historian is considered within the Western परंपरा to be the `` पिता of history '', and, along with उसके contemporary Thucydides, helped रूप the foundations लिये the आधुनिक पढ़ाई of इंसान history.
Their कार्य continues to be पढ़ा today और the divide between the culture-focused हिरोडोटस and the military-focused Thucydides remains a point of contention or approach in आधुनिक historical लिखने.
in the पूर्वी tradition, a राज्य वृत्तान्त the वसन्त और पतझड़ Annals was known to be compiled इससे as जल्दी as 722 bce although तभी 2nd सदी bce ग्रन्थ survived.
प्राचीन influences have helped spawn variant interpretations of the प्रकृति of history which have evolved over the centuries and continue to change आज.
the आधुनिक पढ़ाई of इतिहास is wide-ranging, और includes the study of विशिष्ट regions और the पढ़ाई of निश्चित topical or thematical elements of ऐतिहासिक छानबीन.
प्रायः history is सिखाया as भाग of primary and द्वितीयक शिक्षा, और the अकादमिक study of इतिहास is a major discipline in विश्वविद्यालयों studies.
मैल्कम x ( ; May 19, 1925february 21, 1965 ), born मैल्कम Little and also ज्ञात as el-hajj malik El-Shabazz ( ), was an African-American Muslim मंत्री and इंसान अधिकारों activist.
to उसके admirers, he थी a courageous advocate लिये the rights of अश्वेतों, a man who indicted white अमेरिका in the harshest शर्तें लिये इसके अपराधों विरूद्ध ब्लैक Americans.
Detractors accused उसे of उपदेश racism, ब्लैक सर्वोच्चता, and हिंसा.
He has महरूम called one of the greatest और most influential अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी in इतिहास.
Malcolm x 's पिता died—killed by white supremacists, it was rumored—when he थी यंग, और at least एक of उसके uncles was lynched.
जब he थी 13, his माँ थी लगाई in a दिमागी hospital, और he was placed in a series of foster homes.
in 1946, at आयु 20, he went to थाना for breaking and entering.
in थाना, Malcolm X became a member of the स्वदेश of islam ; बाद his पैरोल in 1952, he quickly रोज़ to become एक of its नेताओ.
लिये a dozen सालो, मैल्कम x थी the पब्लिक face of the विवादास्पद समूह, but disillusionment with Nation of Islam head Elijah मुहम्मद led him to छोड़ the स्वदेश in March 1964.
After a काल of सफर in Africa और the Middle East, he returned to the United States, जहाँ he संस्थापित मुस्लिम Mosque, Inc. and the Organization of Afro-American एकता.
in फ़रवरी 1965, less than a साल बाद leaving the स्वदेश of islam, he थी assassinated by तीन सदस्यों of the समूह.
मैल्कम X 's expressed beliefs changed substantially over time.
as a प्रवक्ता लिये the स्वदेश of islam he सिखाया ब्लैक सर्वोच्चता and advocated विरह of ब्लैक and white अमेरिकी —in कंट्रास्ट to the सिविल अधिकारों movement 's emphasis on integration.
बाद तोड़कर साथ the Nation of islam in 1964—saying of his association साथ it, `` i किया many बाते as a [ ब्लैक ] Muslim that i 'm sorry for अभी.
i was a प्रेत तब... pointed in a certain दिशा और told to march '' —and becoming a Sunni मुस्लिम, he disavowed जातिवाद और expressed willingness to work साथ सिविल rights leaders, he continued to emphasize pan-africanism, black self-determination, और self-defense.
Henry Merritt `` हांक '' Paulson, jr. ( born कूच 28, 1946 ) is an American banker जो परोसा as the 74th संयुक्त राज्य Secretary of the राजकोष.
he had परोसा as the अध्यक्ष and मुख्य कार्यपालिका अधिकारी of गोल्डमैन sachs, और is अभी अध्यक्ष of the paulson Institute, which he founded in 2011 to प्रचार चिरस्थायी economic विकास और a क्लीनर environment around the संसार, साथ an आरंभिक फ़ोकस on the संयुक्त राज्य और China.
a आभासी यंत्र ( VM ) is a तन्त्र implemented abstraction of the underlying हार्डवेयर, which is प्रस्तुत to the application परत of the प्रणाली.
आभासी मशीने may be based on specifications of a hypothetical computer or emulate the computer वास्तुकला and functions of a रियल संसार कंप्यूटर.
मकड़ियों ( अनुक्रम araneae ) हैं air-breathing arthropods कि have eight टाँगे and chelicerae साथ fangs that इंजेक्ट venom.
वे are the largest order of arachnids और रैंक सातवाँ in total प्रजाति diversity among all अन्य समूह of जीवों.
मकड़ियों हैं found विश्वव्यापी on प्रत्येक continent मगर लिये अंटार्कटिक, and have become स्थापित in nearly every आवास साथ the एक्सेप्शन of एयर और sea colonization.
As of 2008, at तनिक 43,678 मकड़ी species, और 109 परिवारों have been recorded by taxonomists ; however, वहीँ रै been confusion within the scientific जातियाँ as to कैसा all ये परिवारों चाहिए be वर्गीकृत, as evidenced by the over 20 अलग classifications कि have महरूम proposed since 1900.
Anatomically, मकड़ियों differ इससे other arthropods in that the usual देह खण्ड हैं fused into दो tagmata, the cephalothorax और उदर, और joined by a small, बेलनाकार pedicel.
Unlike insects, मकड़ियों do नहीं have antennae.
In all मगर the most आदिम समूह, the mesothelae, spiders have the most centralized nervous systems of all arthropods, as सब उनके ganglia हैं fused into एक द्रव्यमान in the cephalothorax.
नापसंद सबसे arthropods, spiders have no extensor मांसपेशियां in उनके limbs और instead extend them by hydraulic pressure.
Their abdomens bear appendages कि have महरूम परिवर्धित into spinnerets कि extrude रेशा from up to छह प्रकार of रेशा ग्रंथियों within their उदर.
मकड़ी webs vary widely in आकार, आकार and the amount of स्टिकी thread used.
It अभी appears कि the spiral orb वेब may be एक of the earliest फ़ॉर्म, and मकड़ियों कि produce उलझे cobwebs हैं more abundant और diverse than orb-web spiders.
Spider-like arachnids साथ silk-producing spigots appeared in the Devonian period परिचय, लकिन these animals जाहिर lacked spinnerets.
सच्चा spiders have been found in Carboniferous rocks इससे, और हैं very similar to the most primitive surviving order, the Mesothelae.
The प्रमुख groups of modern मकड़ियों, mygalomorphae और araneomorphae, first appeared in the triassic period, before.
a herbivorous प्रजाति, bagheera kiplingi, थी वर्णित in 2008, लकिन all अन्य ज्ञात प्रजाति हैं परभक्षी, ज़्यादातर preying on कीट और on other मकड़ियों, although a few विशाल प्रजाति भी लो birds and lizards.
Spiders use a चौड़ी range of रणनीति to कैप्चर prey : trapping it in स्टिकी webs, lassoing it साथ स्टिकी bolas, mimicking the prey to avoid detection, or कार्यशील it down.
Most detect शिकार मुख्यतः by संवेदन कंपन, लकिन the क्रियाशील hunters have अधि दृष्टि, और hunters of the genus Portia show लक्षण of intelligence in उनके choice of tactics और क्षमता to develop नई ones.
मकड़ियों ' guts are too सीमित to लो solids, और वे liquidize उनके खाना by flooding it with digestive enzymes and पीस it साथ the bases of their pedipalps, as they do not have सच्चा जबड़े.
पुरूष spiders identify themselves by a variety of complex courtship संस्कार to avoid being eaten by the females.
males of सबसे प्रजाति survive a few matings, limited मुख्यतः by उनके छोटी life spans.
महिलाओं weave रेशा egg-cases, each of जिससे may contain सैंकड़ों of अंडे.
महिलाओं of अनेक प्रजाति care for their young, लिये उदाहरण by carrying उन्हें around or by sharing food साथ them.
a अल्पसंख्यक of प्रजाति हैं social, भवन सांप्रदायिक webs कि may हाउस anywhere from a few to 50,000 individuals.
Social behavior ranges from precarious toleration, as in the widow spiders, to co-operative शिकार and food-sharing.
हालांकि सबसे मकड़ियों live लिये at सबसे दो सालो, tarantulas और अन्य mygalomorph मकड़ियों can सजीव up to 25 years in captivity.
जबकि the venom of a few species is dangerous to इंसानो, वैज्ञानिकों are now researching the उपयोग of spider venom in आयुर्विज्ञान and as non-polluting pesticides.
मकड़ी silk provides a संयोजन of lightness, शक्ति and लोच कि is श्रेष्ठ to that of synthetic सामग्री, and मकड़ी silk genes have महरूम inserted into स्तनधारियों and पौधे to see if ये can be प्रयुक्त as silk कारखानों.
As a result of उनके चौड़ी दायरा of व्यवहार, मकड़ियों have become आम प्रतीकों in art and mythology symbolizing various combinations of सब्र, cruelty और रचनात्मक powers.
Donna Marie Pinciotti ( Born फ़रवरी 13, 1960 ) is a fictional अक्षर और एक of the दो female leads in the Fox sitcom That '70s दिखाएँ, appearing in सब eight seasons.
Portrayed by लौरा prepon, Donna is the love ब्याज to Eric forman.
US county household मध्य आय 2009.
मध्य us household आय, 2001-2011
household आय is a measure commonly प्रयुक्त by the United राज्य सरकारी और private institutions.
प्रत्येक household is measured by the income of प्रत्येक resident over the आयु of 15.
Income शामिल मजदूरी and salaries, बेरोजगारी insurance, विकलांगता भुगतान, चाइल्ड support भुगतान प्राप्त, नियमित rental रसीदें, as well as कोई निजी कारोबार, निवेश, or अन्य kinds of income प्राप्त routinely.
While inflation-adjusted ( `` real '' ) household आय था महरूम increasing लगभग every साल इससे 1945 to 1999, it has चूंकि महरूम flat and भी decreased recently.
U.S. median household income गिरी इससे $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011.
Extreme गरीबी in the संयुक्त राज्य, अर्थ households जीना on less than $ 2 प्रति day पहले सरकारी लाभ, doubled from 1996 to 1.5 लाख households in 2011, सहित 2.8 million children.
The निवासियों of the household do नहीं have to be सम्बन्धित to the head of the household लिये their आय to be माना part of the household 's income.
as households tend to share a similar आर्थिक कॉन्टेक्स्ट, the उपयोग of household आय remains among the most widely accepted measures of आय.
कि the आकार of a household is नहीं commonly taken into खाता in ऐसे measures may distort कोई analysis of fluctuations भीतर or among the household income categories, और may render direct comparisons between quintiles मुश्किल or भी नामुमकिन.
A पंजीकृत agent, भी ज्ञात as a निवासी एजेंट or statutory agent, in संयुक्त राज्य कारोबार law, is a कारोबार or व्यक्तिगत designated to प्राप्त सेवा of प्रक्रम ( SOP ) जब a कारोबार एंटिटी is a party in a legal कार्रवाई such as a मुकदमा or समन.
The पंजीकृत एजेंट 's पता may also be जहाँ the राज्य will भेजें the कागजी for the yearly नवीकरण of the कारोबार एंटिटी 's चार्टर.
the registered एजेंट लिये a कारोबार entity may be an individual member of the कम्पनी, or ( अधिक often ) a तीसरा party, ऐसे as the संगठन 's वकील or a service company.
Failure to properly maintain a registered एजेंट can affect a कम्पनी negatively.
Office लिये आपात Management.
Office of War सूचना युद्ध poster 1941 - 1945
`` Life, स्वतंत्रता, and the pursuit of Happiness '' is a well-known phrase in the संयुक्त राज्य Declaration of स्वतंत्रता.
The phrase is meant to exemplify the `` unalienable rights '' with जिससे all इंसान beings हैं endowed by उनके निर्माता लिये their सुरक्षा of जिससे वे संस्थान governments.
Fencing, is typically विभाजित into ओलम्पिक fencing, शास्त्रीय fencing और ऐतिहासिक fencing,.
the sport of तलवारबाजी ( commonly पुकारा olympic तलवारबाजी or competitive तलवारबाजी ) is विभाजित into three weapon श्रेणी : foil, sabre और épée.
Classical तलवारबाजी उपयोग the same तीन weapons, लकिन approaches तलवारबाजी as a martial art.
Competitive तलवारबाजी is one of पाँच sports जिससे रै महरूम featured at प्रत्येक एक of the आधुनिक Olympic खेल, the अन्य four होने एथलेटिक्स, साइकिलिंग, Swimming, and जिमनास्टिक्स.
the quadriceps femoris ( Latin for `` four-headed मांसपेशी of the femur `` ), भी पुकारा simply the quadriceps, quadriceps extensor, quads, is a विशाल मांसपेशी समूह कि includes the चार प्रचलित मांसपेशियां on the front of the जांघ.
It is the great extensor मांसपेशी of the घुटना, forming a विशाल मांसल mass जिससे covers the सामने and पहलू of the femur.
The proper Latin plural form of the adjective quadriceps होता be quadricipites.
in आधुनिक English उपयोग, quadriceps is प्रयुक्त in both singular और बहुवचन.
The एकवचन form quadricep, उत्पादित by hypercorrection, is frequently प्रयुक्त.
rms टाइटैनिक was a British यात्री लाइनर कि sank in the North अटलांटिक Ocean on 15 April 1912 बाद colliding साथ an हिमशैल during उसके maiden voyage इससे Southampton, UK to नई York City, US.
the sinking of टाइटैनिक caused the deaths of 1,502 लोगों in एक of the deadliest peacetime मेरीटाइम disasters in modern इतिहास.
the rms टाइटैनिक थी the largest ship afloat at the समय of उसके maiden voyage.
वो was the दूसरी of three ओलम्पिक क्लास ocean liners operated by the White स्टार लकीर, and वो थी निर्मित by the Harland और Wolff डॉकयार्ड in Belfast with थामस Andrews, जो perished साथ the जलयान, as उसके नवल architect.
on उसके maiden voyage, वो carried 2,224 passengers and क्रू.
अंतर्गत the command of एडवर्ड Smith, उसके passengers शामिल कुछ of the wealthiest people in the संसार, as खूब as सैंकड़ों of emigrants from ग्रेट Britain और आयरलैंड, Scandinavia and elsewhere throughout यूरोपीय seeking a new जीवन in North America.
The जलयान was designed to be the पिछला word in सुकून और luxury, साथ an on-board gymnasium, तैराकी पूल, libraries, high-class रेस्तरां and opulent cabins.
वो भी had a powerful wireless telegraph provided लिये the convenience of यात्री as well as लिये operational use.
हालांकि she था advanced सुरक्षा सुविधाएँ ऐसे as watertight compartments और remotely activated watertight doors, वो lacked पर्याप्त lifeboats to accommodate सब of those सवार.
क्युकी of outdated maritime safety regulations, she carried only enough lifeboats for 1,178 people—slightly अधिक than half of the क्रमांक यात्राएं on the maiden voyage, and one-third उसके कुल यात्री and क्रू capacity.
बाद leaving Southampton on 10 अप्रैल 1912, टाइटैनिक called at cherbourg in फ़्रांस और queenstown ( now Cobh ) in आयरलैंड पहले heading westwards towards New York.
on 14 अप्रैल 1912, four दिनों into the क्रासिंग and परिचय 375 मील ( 600 km ) south of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड, she hit an हिमशैल at 11:40 pm ship 's समय.
The glancing collision caused titanics हल plates to बकल inwards along her starboard side और खोली five of उसके सोलह watertight compartments to the sea ; the ship gradually भर with water.
Meanwhile, यात्री और some क्रू members यहूद evacuated in lifeboats, अनेक of जिससे यहूद शुभारम्भ तभी partly loaded.
a अनुपातहीन क्रमांक of men were left aboard क्युकी of a `` महिलाओं और children first `` प्रोटोकॉल followed by some of the अधिकारियों loading the lifeboats.
by 2:20 AM, वो broke अलावा and foundered, with खूब over एक thousand people still सवार.
बस अंतर्गत दो घंटों बाद the टाइटैनिक foundered, the cunard लाइनर RMS carpathia arrived on the झाँकी of the डूब, where she brought सवार an estimated 705 survivors.
the disaster was greeted with विश्वव्यापी शॉक और outrage at the विशाल loss of जीवन और the नियामक और operational असफलताओं कि था led to it.
पब्लिक inquiries in Britain और the संयुक्त राज्य led to प्रमुख सुधार in मेरीटाइम सुरक्षा.
एक of उनके सबसे important legacies थी the establishment in 1914 of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय सम्मेलन लिये the सुरक्षा of जीवन at समुद्र ( SOLAS ), जिससे still governs मेरीटाइम सुरक्षा आज.
additionally, अनेक नई बेतार regulations यहूद passed around the world in an effort to learn from the many missteps in बेतार communications -- -which could have saved अनेक अधिक यात्री.
अनेक of the survivors lost all of their धन and possessions और were left अक्षम ; many परिवारों, particularly those of crew सदस्यों from southampton, खोया their प्राथमिक bread-winners.
वे were helped by an outpouring of पब्लिक सहानुभूति और charitable donations.
Some of the पुरूष survivors यहूद accused of कायरता लिये leaving the जलयान जबकि लोगों यहूद still on फलक ; the श्वेत Star लकीर 's अध्यक्ष, J. Bruce Ismay, faced सोशल ostracism for the rest of उसके life.
the रेक of the Titanic remains on the समुद्रतल, split in two and धीरे disintegrating at a depth of.
चूंकि इसके discovery in 1985, हज़ारों of artefacts have महरूम recovered और put on display at संग्रहालय around the world.
Titanic has become एक of the सबसे famous जहाजों in इतिहास, उसके मेमोरी रखा जिंदा by numerous किताबे, लोक songs, films, दर्शाती, और memorials.
The इंसान लेग is the संपूर्ण निम्नतर extremity or limb of the human देह, सहित the पैर, जांघ and भी the हिप or gluteal region ; however, the precise परिभाषा in इंसान anatomy refers तभी to the खण्ड of the निम्नतर limb extending इससे the knee to the ankle.
Legs are प्रयुक्त for खड़ा, walking, jumping, कार्यशील, kicking, और समान क्रियाएँ, और constitute a significant portion of a व्यक्ति 's mass.
इस article is about the demographic features of the population of तुर्कों, सहित population घनत्व, नस्ल, education स्तर, स्वास्थ्य of the populace, आर्थिक status, religious संबद्धों and अन्य पहलुओं of the जनसांख्यिकी.
as of 2010, the जनसांख्यिकी of Turkey is अनुमानित to be 73.7 लाख साथ a विकास रेट of 1.21 % per annum ( 2009 figure ).
the जनसांख्यिकी is अपेक्षाकृत young with 26.6 % गिरना in the 0-14 आयु कोष्ठक.
According to the oecd/world Bank जनसांख्यिकी आंकडे in तुर्कों the population विकास इससे 1990 to 2008 was 16 लाख or 29 %.
1998 bmw 750iL
बुइक roadmaster
A full-size car is a विपणन term used in North अमेरिका for an ऑटोमोबाइल larger than a mid-size car.
in the United States, the EPA uses the term `` large car '' to denote full-size गाड़ियाँ.
Joel Grey ( born अप्रैल 11, 1932 ) is an अमरीकी stage and स्क्रीन actor, सिंगर, और dancer, known for his भूमिका as the Master of ceremonies in both the stage और film adaptation of the Kander & उतार musical Cabaret.
he रै जीती the अकादमी Award, टोनी Award and सुनहरी ग्लोब Award.
He भी originated the भूमिका of जार्ज M. cohan in the musical जार्ज m !
in 1973, the जादूगर in the musical दुष्ट.
धूसर भी स्ट्रक्चर in the ब्रॉडवे revivals of Anything Goes as moonface Martin, और शिकागो as Amos Hart.
जेम्स Madison, jr. ( March 16, 1751 ( o.s. March 5 ) – जून 28, 1836 ) थी an अमरीकी statesman and राजनैतिक theorist, the चौथी अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1809–1817 ).
he is hailed as the “father of the constitution” लिये being इंस्ट्रूमेंटल in the drafting of the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान और as the key champion और author of the संयुक्त राज्य विधेयक of अधिकारों.
He परोसा as a politician much of उसके adult जीवन.
बाद the constitution था महरूम drafted, मैडिसन became एक of the नेताओ in the गति to ratify it.
उसके सहयोग साथ सिकंदर Hamilton and जॉन jay उत्पादित the federalist Papers ( 1788 ).
Circulated तभी in New York at the time, वे होता बाद be considered among the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण polemics in support of the Constitution.
He थी भी a delegate to the वर्जिनिया constitutional ratifying convention, and थी इंस्ट्रूमेंटल to the कामयाब ratification effort in Virginia.
जैसे most of उसके contemporaries, मैडिसन changed उसके राजनैतिक दृश्य दौरान उसके life.
दौरान the drafting और ratification of the constitution, he favored a दमदार नेशनल सरकारी, हालांकि later he grew to favor stronger राज्य सरकारें, before settling between the two extremes लेट in उसके life.
in 1789, Madison became a leader in the नई House of Representatives, drafting अनेक मौलिक कानून.
He is notable for drafting the पहला टेन amendments to the संविधान, और thus is ज्ञात as the `` Father of the विधेयक of Rights ``.
मैडिसन worked closely साथ अध्यक्ष George Washington to व्यवस्थित the नई संघीय सरकारी.
Breaking साथ हैमिल्टन and कया became the Federalist Party in 1791, मैडिसन और थामस जेफरसन व्यवस्थित कया वे पुकारा the Republican पार्टी ( बाद पुकारा by इतिहासकारों the Democratic-Republican पार्टी )
as Jefferson’s Secretary of राज्य ( 1801–1809 ), मैडिसन supervised the louisiana Purchase, जिससे doubled the nation’s size.
After उसके election to the प्रेसिडेंसी, he presided over नवीनीकृत prosperity लिये अनेक सालो.
as अध्यक्ष ( 1809–17 ), बाद the विफलता of राजनयिक protests and a व्यापार embargo विरूद्ध ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, he led the nation into the युद्ध of 1812.
he थी responding to अंग्रेजों encroachments on अमरीकी सम्मान and अधिकारों ; in जोड, he चाही to end the influence of the अंग्रेजों among उनके Indian allies, जिनकी प्रतिरोध अवरोधित United States उपनिवेश in the मिडवेस्ट around the Great Lakes.
मैडिसन मिला the war to be an प्रशासनिक दुःस्वप्न, as the United States had neither a दमदार army nor वित्तीय प्रणाली ; as a परिणाम, he afterward supported a stronger नेशनल सरकारी और a दमदार सैन्य, as खूब as the national bank, which he था long opposed.
जैसे अन्य वर्जिनिया कूटनीतिज्ञों in the स्लेव समाज, he थी a slaveholder जो inherited उसके plantation ज्ञात as montpelier, and स्वामित्व सैंकड़ों of स्लेव दौरान उसके आजीवन to cultivate तम्बाकू और other crops.
मैडिसन supported the three-fifths सुलह that allowed three-fifths of the enumerated जनसांख्यिकी of slaves to be गिने लिये representation.
`` Roman 's बदला '' is a song performed by अमरीकी rapper निकी Minaj from उसके डेब्यू studio एल्बम गुलाबी Friday.
It थी लिखा by minaj और rapper एमिनेम, जो is भी प्रदर्शित in the song, और was produced by Swizz beatz.
it थी released exclusively on अक्तूबर 30, 2010 through the US itunes स्टोर, as a promotional release preceding the album 's रिलीज.
the song initiated a feud between लील ' किम and Minaj, जहाँ अनेक लोगों लगा the सोंग थी निर्देशित at लील ' किम and regarded around उसके जज्बात towards Minaj 's वृद्धि to fame.
the song सन्दर्भ minaj 's alter-ego, रोमन zolanski, और एमिनेम 's alter-ego, पतला Shady.
The song garnered very धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ इससे critics, सबसे of which praised the सोंग as a stand-out track on the album.
an official रिमिक्स featuring minaj 's mentor, Lil Wayne, was released to the US itunes Store on जनवरी 19, 2011.
The इंस्ट्रूमेंटल was used in the song 'firing स्क्वाड ' by Horseshoe g.a.n.g.
हाइड्रोलिक fluid होने poured.
Hydraulic fluids, भी पुकारा हाइड्रोलिक liquids, are the medium by which शक्ति is transferred in हाइड्रोलिक मशीनरी.
आम हाइड्रोलिक fluids हैं आधारित on खनिज आयल or जल.
Examples of equipment that might उपयोग hydraulic fluids शामिल excavators और backhoes, hydraulic brakes, शक्ति परिचालन systems, ट्रांसमिशन, garbage trucks, वायुयान flight control systems, lifts, and औद्योगिक machinery.
Hydraulic प्रणालियों जैसे the ones mentioned above होगा कार्य most efficiently if the हाइड्रोलिक द्रव प्रयुक्त रै no compressibility
महिंद्रा ट्रैक्टर
महिंद्रा Tractors, the farm equipment प्रभाग of Mahindra & महिंद्रा, builds और स्त्रोत tractors कि are बेची विश्वव्यापी आरपार six महाद्वीपों.
महिंद्रा is also among the top तीन ट्रैक्टर निर्माताओं in the संसार.
महिंद्रा has a विशाल उपभोक्ता आधार in India, चीन और अमेरिका और a growing base in ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
the company builds more tractors in India than कोई अन्य निर्माता, और रै the क्षमता to निर्माण 150,000 tractors a साल.
in 1963, m & m formed a संयुक्त venture साथ International Harvester to manufacture tractors carrying the Mahindra nameplate लिये the भारतीय market.
हथियारबंद साथ अभियान्त्रिकी, tooling and manufacturing know-how gained इससे इस relationship, m & M developed इसके पहला ट्रैक्टर, the B-275.
महिंद्रा Tractors साथ sales of nearly 85,000 इकाई annually is one of the largest ट्रैक्टर companies in the world, और is number one in बिक्री in इण्डिया - the largest tractor मार्केट in the world.
To expand into the growing tractor market in China, महिंद्रा acquired majority हिस्सेदारी in jiangling.
To उठाएँ awareness परिचय Mahindra in the us, महिंद्रा यूएसए घोषित इसके नई sponsorship in the NASCAR देशभर Series साथ r3 मोटरस्पोर्ट, जिससे is participating साथ a # 23 महिंद्रा Tractors Chevrolet.
the car होगा be चलित by रॉबर्ट Richardson, Jr. महिंद्रा USA, Inc. घोषित a 17-race primary और 18-race associate प्रायोजन लिये the 2009 nascar देशभर श्रेणी.
With इस sponsorship, Mahindra थी the पहला भारतीय कम्पनी to प्रायोजक a car in nascar.
in 2008, महिंद्रा थी a प्रायोजक of the मैकडोनाल्ड मोटरस्पोर्ट टोली जिससे भागा the # 81 car in the NASCAR Nationwide श्रेणी.
the power6 is a microprocessor developed by ibm that implemented the शक्ति ISA v.2.03.
जब it became available in systems in 2007, it succeeded the POWER5+ as ibm 's फ्लैगशिप Power माइक्रोप्रोसेसर.
it is भाग of the eclipz प्रोजेक्ट, कहा to have a लक्ष्य of converging IBM 's सर्वर hardware where व्यावहारिक ( hence `` ipz '' in the acronym : iseries, pseries, and zseries ).
the American मध्य क्लास is a सोशल class in the United States.
जबकि the अवधारणा is typically अस्पष्ट in लोकप्रिय राय और आम भाषा उपयोग, समकालीन सोशल scientists have put आगे several, अधिक or कम congruent, theories on the American मध्य class.
Depending on class मॉडल प्रयुक्त, the मध्य class may constitute anywhere from 25 % to 66 % of households.
एक of the पहला प्रमुख अध्ययन of the मध्य क्लास in America थी श्वेत कॉलर : The American मध्य Classes, प्रकाशित in 1951 by sociologist C. राइट wright_mills Mills wright_mills.
बाद sociologists such as Dennis गिल्बर्ट of हैमिल्टन कॉलेज commonly divide the middle क्लास into two sub-groups.
Constituting roughly 15 % to 20 % of households is the upper or पेशेवर मध्य क्लास consisting of अत्यधिक educated, salaried professionals और प्रबंधक.
Constituting roughly एक तीसरा of households is the निम्नतर middle क्लास consisting ज़्यादातर of semi-professionals, skilled कारीगरों और lower-level प्रबन्धन.
Middle-class व्यक्तियों commonly have a comfortable मानक of living, significant आर्थिक security, considerable work स्वायत्तता and rely on their expertise to sustain themselves.
Members of the मध्य क्लास belong to विविध समूह जिससे overlap साथ प्रत्येक अन्य.
Overall, middle-class persons, विशेषकर upper-middle-class individuals, हैं characterized by conceptualizing, creating और consulting.
यूँ, college education is one of the main indicators of middle-class औकात.
largely attributed to the nature of middle-class occupations, middle class values tend to emphasize independence, adherence to मूलभूत standards, valuing नवीनता and respecting non-conformity.
नीतियां more क्रियाशील than other demographics, college शिक्षित मध्य क्लास पेशेवर हैं विभाजित between the दो प्रमुख पार्टियों.
Income varies considerably इससे निकट the नेशनल median to खूब in excess of $ 100,000.
household income आंकड़े, however, do नहीं सदा reflect class औकात and standard of जीना, as they are largely बहकावे by the number of आय earners and fail to recognize household size.
it is इसलिए possible लिये a विशाल, dual-earner, lower middle class household to out-earn a छोटी, one-earner, अपर middle class household.
The middle classes are बहुत influential, as वे encompass the बहुमत of voters, writers, teachers, पत्रकारों, और सम्पादक.
सबसे societal रुझान in the us originate भीतर the मध्य classes.
the following is a सूची of Saturday रात्रि सजीव डाल members, past और उपस्थित.
the cast सदस्यों of शनिवार Night Live यहूद originally referred to as the `` नहीं तैयार लिये प्रधान Time खिलाड़ी ''.
The original डाल ( l to r ) : laraine न्युमैन, जॉन belushi, जेन Curtin, gilda Radner, डान Aykroyd, Garrett Morris, and चेवी Chase
Ruins from the 1906 सैन फ्रांसिस्को earthquake, remembered as एक of the worst प्राकृतिक आपदाओं in United States history
a विपत्ति is a natural or man-made ( or technological ) जोखिम resulting in an इवेंट of substantial extent causing significant physical क्षति or destruction, loss of life, or drastic change to the पर्यावरण.
A disaster can be ostensively पारिभाषित as कोई tragic इवेंट stemming इससे कार्यक्रम ऐसे as earthquakes, floods, catastrophic accidents, fires, or विस्फोट.
It is a घटना कि can cause damage to जीवन और property और नष्ट the economic, social and सांस्कृतिक जीवन of people.
in समकालीन academia, आपदाओं हैं seen as the consequence of inappropriately प्रबंधित risk.
ये risks हैं the product of a combination of both hazard/s और vulnerability.
Hazards that strike in क्षेत्रों साथ कम vulnerability होगा never become आपदाओं, as is the मामला in uninhabited regions.
विकासशील देशों suffer the महानतम लागत when a विपत्ति hits – अधिक than 95 percent of सब deaths caused by आपदाओं occur in developing countries, और losses due to natural disasters हैं 20 times वृहद ( as a प्रतिशत of जीडीपी ) in विकासशील countries than in industrialized देशों.
in कम्प्यूटिंग, booting ( also known as booting up ) is the आरंभिक नियत of operations कि a computer system performs जब विद्युत शक्ति to the CPU is switched on.
the प्रक्रम begins जब a computer is turned on for the first समय or is re-energized बाद being turned बंद, and ends when the कंप्यूटर is तैयार to perform its normal परिचालन.
on modern general purpose कंप्यूटर, इस can लो tens of सेकेंड और typically involves performing a power-on self-test, locating and initializing परिधीय devices, and तब finding, लदान and starting an ऑपरेटिंग system.
अनेक कंप्यूटर प्रणालियों भी allow these परिचालन to be initiated by a तन्त्र कमांड बगैर साइकिलिंग शक्ति, in what is known as a नरम रिबूट, though कुछ of the आरंभिक परिचालन might be skipped on a नरम reboot.
a बूट loader is a कंप्यूटर कार्यक्रम कि loads the main ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली or runtime environment लिये the computer बाद पूर्णता of the self-tests.
the computer पद बूट is short लिये bootstrap or बूटस्ट्रैप load and derives from the phrase to pull oneself up by one 's bootstraps.
The usage calls ध्यान to the आवश्यकता that, if most software is loaded onto a कंप्यूटर by other तन्त्र already कार्यशील on the computer, कुछ यांत्रिकी must मौजूद to load आरंभिक तन्त्र onto the कंप्यूटर.
जल्दी computers प्रयुक्त a किस्में of ad-hoc विधि to get a छोटी program into memory to solve this प्रॉब्लम.
the आविष्कार of एकीकृत circuit read-only memory ( ROM ) of various प्रकार हल this विरोधाभास by allowing कंप्यूटर to be shipped with a प्रारंभ up कार्यक्रम that could not be erased.
विकास in the capacity of ROM रै allowed कभी अधिक विस्तृत प्रारंभ up प्रक्रियाओं to be implemented.
on सामान्य purpose कंप्यूटर, the बूट process begins साथ the execution of an initial program stored in बूट roms or read in another फ़ैशन.
In कुछ older कंप्यूटर, the initial program might have महरूम the application to run, if no ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली थी प्रयुक्त, or the ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली.
in other computers, the आरंभिक कार्यक्रम is a boot लोडर that may तब लोड into random-access मेमोरी ( RAM ), from nonvolatile secondary भंडार ( ऐसे as a मुश्किल डिस्क drive ) or, in कुछ पुरानी कंप्यूटर, इससे a मीडियम such as punched cards, punched टेप, or चुम्बकीय tape in पुरानी computers, the शब्दकोष कोड of an operating प्रणाली or runtime environment and तब execute it.
if the boot loader is limited in इसके आकार और सामर्थ्य, it may, बजाय, load a larger और more capable द्वितीयक बूट लोडर, जिससे होता तब लोड the ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली or runtime पर्यावरण.
कुछ embedded systems do not require a noticeable बूट अनुक्रम to शुरू functioning and जब turned on may simply चलाएं operational programs that are stored in rom.
Firebird is an खोलें source एसक्यूएल relational डेटाबेस management system कि runs on Linux, खिड़कियाँ, और a variety of Unix.
the database forked from Borland 's खोलें सोर्स edition of interbase in 2000, लकिन चूंकि firebird 1.5 the कोड रै महरूम largely rewritten.
आउटसोर्सिंग is the contracting आउट of an आतंरिक कारोबार प्रक्रम to a third-party संगठन.
the अभ्यास of contracting a business प्रक्रम out to a तीसरा party बल्कि than स्टॉफ it internally is common in the आधुनिक अर्थव्यवस्था.
the पद `` आउटसोर्सिंग '' became popular in the United States निकट the फेरे of the 21st century.
आउटसोर्सिंग sometimes involves transferring कर्मचारी और assets इससे one firm to another, लकिन not सदा.
the definition of आउटसोर्सिंग शामिल दोनो foreign और घरेलू contracting, और sometimes शामिल offshoring, जिससे अर्थात् relocating a कारोबार फलन to another देश.
वित्तीय बचत from निम्नतर अंतरराष्ट्रीय मजदूर rates is a big प्रेरणा लिये outsourcing/offshoring.
The विपरीत of outsourcing is पुकारा insourcing, जिससे entails bringing प्रक्रियाओं handled by third-party firms in-house, और is sometimes संपन्नता via vertical integration.
however, a business can provide a contract service to another business बगैर necessarily insourcing that business प्रक्रम.
Human immunodeficiency वायरस ( hiv ) is a lentivirus ( slowly replicating retrovirus ) कि causes acquired immunodeficiency सिंड्रोम ( एड्स ), a कंडीशन in humans in जिससे progressive failure of the प्रतिरक्षा system allows life-threatening opportunistic infections और cancers to thrive.
संक्रमण with hiv occurs by the ट्रांसफ़र of blood, semen, vaginal fluid, pre-ejaculate, or स्तन मिल्क.
भीतर ये bodily fluids, HIV is उपस्थित as दोनो फ़्री virus अणु and वायरस within संक्रमित immune कोशिकाएं.
hiv infects vital कोशिकाएं in the इंसान प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली such as हेल्पर t cells ( specifically CD4 + T cells ), macrophages, and dendritic कोशिकाएं.
HIV infection लीड to कम levels of CD4+ t कोशिकाएं through a क्रमांक of mechanisms including : apoptosis of uninfected bystander cells, सीधा वाइरल हत्या of infected cells, और हत्या of संक्रमित cd4+ t कोशिकाएं by CD8 cytotoxic lymphocytes that recognize infected cells.
When CD4+ t कोशिका numbers मनाही नीचे a नाजुक स्तर, cell-mediated immunity is lost, और the body becomes progressively more susceptible to opportunistic infections.
the firepole in a आग station in Toronto
a fireman 's pole ( also पुकारा a स्लाइडिंग pole or firepole ) is a लकड़ी pole or a metal ट्यूब or pipe संस्थापित between floors in fire stations, allowing अग्निशमन responding to an alarm to जल्दी descend to the मैदान floor तेज़ than by using a मानक staircase.
the यंत्र थी invented in the 1870s by दाउद Kenyon, in शिकागो, Illinois, although it is often incorrectly credited to the बोस्टन Fire विभाग.
मरियम poppins is the title अक्षर of a series of children 's किताबे लिखा by P. L. ट्रेवर्स.
throughout the मरियम poppins series, जिससे lasted इससे 1934 to 1988, Mary shepard थी the illustrator और acted as a second लेखक.
the किताबे केन्द्र on a magical अंग्रेज़ी nanny, मरियम poppins.
वो is blown by the ईस्ट wind to क्रमांक सत्रह Cherry Tree Lane, London, और into the बैंको ' household to परवाह for उनके children.
Encounters साथ chimney sweeps, दुकानदारों और विभिन्न adventures follow until मरियम poppins abruptly पत्ते, i.e., `` pops-out ''.
the adventures take प्लेस over a total of आठ किताबे.
However, तभी the पहला तीन books विशेषता Mary poppins arriving और leaving.
the later five किताबे recount previously unrecorded adventures from her असली three visits.
As P. L. ट्रेवर्स explains in her introduction to मरियम Poppins in the पार्क, `` She can नहीं forever arrive और depart. ''
the किताबे यहूद adapted in 1964 into a musical डिज़्नी फिल्मी starring जूली एंड्रयूज और Dick वैन dyke.
in 2004, डिज़्नी नाट्य produced a स्टेज musical adaptation in the West समाप्त थिएटर.
the स्टेज musical थी transferred to Broadway in 2006 जहाँ it भागा जबतक its closing on March 3, 2013.
it रै महरूम अत्यधिक successful, as थी the 1964 film.
the पिछला Song is a 2010 अमरीकी coming of आयु teen romantic नाटक फिल्मी developed alongside निकोलस स्पार्क्स ' अनोखा by the same नाम.
the film थी निर्देशित by Julie ऐनी रॉबिन्सन in her feature film directorial debut and co-written by Sparks और जेफ़ वैन wie.
the पिछला Song सितारों miley सायरस, Liam hemsworth, and ग्रेग Kinnear और फ़ॉलो a troubled किशोरावस्था as वो reconnects with उसके estranged father और falls in प्रेम दौरान a summer in a शांत Southern United राज्य beach town.
the film is वितरित by touchstone Pictures.
स्पार्क्स was approached to लिखें दोनो the फिल्मी 's पटकथा और the अनोखा.
स्पार्क्स समाप्त the screenplay in January 2009, prior to the पूर्णता of the अनोखा, बनाना The Last सोंग his पहला script to be optioned for film.
The सेटिंग, originally in North कैरोलिना like the novel, स्थानांतरित to जॉर्जिया बाद the राज्य था campaigned लिये महीने to मेजबान उत्पादन.
upon शुरूआत उत्पादन in tybee द्वीप, जॉर्जिया और nearby Savannah, the Last Song became the first movie to be both शॉट और नियत in tybee Island.
फिल्मांकन lasted from जून 15 to अगस्त 18, 2009 साथ much of it occurring on the द्वीप 's बीच and बांध.
the Last Song थी originally scheduled for चौड़ी रिलीज on जनवरी 8, 2010, लकिन थी postponed to कूच 31, 2010.
Written simlish
Simlish is a fictional भाषा प्रदर्शित in EA खेल ' Sim series of खेल.
it debuted in simcopter, and रै been especially prominent in The सीम, The सीम 2 और The सीम 3.
the सीम विकास टोली created the अद्वितीय Simlish भाषा by experimenting with fractured Ukrainian, फ्रेंच, Latin, Finnish, अंग्रेज़ी, Fijian, सेबुआनो, और tagalog.
simlish can also be heard in simcity 4, simcity Societies और simcity 2013, लकिन दूर कम frequently.
Civilized Creatures in spore can भी be सिखाया to बोलो Simlish.
it is भी प्रदर्शित to an extent in firaxis खेल ' सिड Meier 's simgolf.
पंक्तियां होगा Wright was conscious of the need for dialogue in the game, लकिन विचार कि using a real भाषा होता मेक it ध्वनि too दोहराए और होता also be too costly to hire अनुवादक लिये संसार languages.
initially, प्रेरित by the Native अमरीकी code talkers of World युद्ध ii, Sims निर्माता Will Wright and भाषा expert Marc Gimbel suggested experimenting with the navajo भाषा to बनाएँ simlish.
However, they ultimately decided that simlish worked best as a `` language '' बना up of gibberish शब्द कि could n't be translated, so कि its meaning would be बाएँ open to the कल्पना of the player.
Wright बाद commented कि using `` बकवास भाषा '' turned आउट to be the सही development चुनाव, as लोगों यहूद सक्षम of imagining it अधिक realistically than a कंप्यूटर could सिमुलेट a real एक.
the वास्तविक ध्वनि of Simlish थी निर्मित improvisationally by आवाज़ actors स्टीफन kearin and gerri Lawlor.
an उदाहरण of अल्ट्रासोनिक Testing ( UT ) on ब्लेड roots of a V2500 iae aircraft इंजन.
Step 1 : the UT जांच is लगाई on the root of the blades to be inspected साथ the सहायता of a खास borescope tool ( video probe ).
कदम 2 : Instrument जमावट हैं इनपुट.
कदम 3 : The probe is scanned over the blade रूट.
In this मामला, an indication ( शिखर in the आंकड़ा ) through the रेड लकीर ( or gate ) indicates a good blade ; an indication to the बाएँ of कि दायरा indicates a क्रैक.
principle of अल्ट्रासोनिक testing.
बाएँ : A probe sends a ध्वनि वेव into a परीक्षण material.
वहीँ are दो indications, एक इससे the initial पल्स of the जांच, and the second due to the वापस वॉल echo.
RIGHT : a defect creates a तीसरा indication और simultaneously reduces the amplitude of the back wall indication.
The depth of the defect is संकल्पित by the अनुपात D/E
in ultrasonic परीक्षण ( UT ), बहुत छोटी अल्ट्रासोनिक pulse-waves with center बारंबारता ranging from 0.1-15 mhz और occasionally up to 50 mhz are launched into सामग्री to detect internal खामियां or to characterize सामग्री.
a आम उदाहरण is ultrasonic मोटाई मापन, जिससे tests the thickness of the परीक्षण ऑब्जेक्ट, लिये example, to मॉनिटर pipework corrosion.
अल्ट्रासोनिक testing is प्रायः performed on स्टील and other metals and alloys, though it can also be प्रयुक्त on कंक्रीट, लकडी और composites, albeit साथ कम रेज़ोल्यूशन.
it is a रूप of non-destructive testing प्रयुक्त in अनेक industries सहित aerospace, automotive and other परिवहन सेक्टर.
the vas deferens ( बहुवचन : vasa deferentia ), भी पुकारा ductus deferens ( लैटिन : `` carrying-away पोत '' ; बहुवचन : ductus deferentes ), is भाग of the पुरूष anatomy of many vertebrates ; वे हस्तांतरण शुक्राणु from the epididymis in पुट of ejaculation.
Vascular ischemia of the toes साथ characteristic cyanosis.
in आयुर्विज्ञान, ischemia, also spelled as ischaemia or ischæmia, ( ; from यूनानी language ισχαιμία, ischaimía ; isch- रूट denoting a प्रतिबंध or thinning or to मेक or grow thin/lean, haema रक्त ) is a restriction in रक्त supply to ऊतकों, causing a shortage of ऑक्सीजन और glucose needed for cellular चयापचय ( to रखना tissue जिंदा ).
Ischemia is generally caused by problems with रक्त बरतन, साथ resultant damage to or dysfunction of ऊतक.
it also अर्थात् लोकल रक्ताल्पता in a given भाग of a देह sometimes resulting from जमघट ( such as vasoconstriction, घनास्रता or वाहिकारोध ).
bas syndrome ( ds ) or Down 's सिंड्रोम, भी known as trisomy 21, is a जेनेटिक disorder caused by the presence of all or part of a तीसरा copy of chromosome 21.
bas syndrome is the सबसे आम chromosome abnormality in humans.
it is typically संबद्ध with a delay in संज्ञानात्मक ability ( दिमागी retardation, or mr ) और physical विकास, और a particular set of facial characteristics.
The average iq of young adults साथ bas सिंड्रोम is around 50, whereas young वयस्कों बगैर the कंडीशन typically have an IQ of 100.
( MR रै historically महरूम पारिभाषित as an iq below 70. )
a विशाल proportion of individuals साथ bas सिंड्रोम have a severe degree of बौद्धिक विकलांगता.
Down सिंड्रोम is नामित बाद जॉन langdon Down, the अंग्रेजों चिकित्सक जो described the सिंड्रोम in 1866.
the condition was clinically वर्णित पहले by जां etienne dominique esquirol in 1838 और Edouard seguin in 1844.
bas syndrome थी पहचाना as a chromosome 21 trisomy by Dr. Jérôme Lejeune in 1959.
Down syndrome can be identified in a baby at जनम or पहले जनम by prenatal screening.
pregnancies with this निदान are प्रायः terminated.
the सीडीसी estimates that about एक of प्रत्येक 691 शिशु born in the संयुक्त States प्रत्येक साल is born साथ Down सिंड्रोम.
अनेक children साथ Down syndrome are educated in नियमित स्कूल classes जबकि others आवश्यकता specialised शैक्षणिक सुविधाएं.
कुछ children ग्रैजुएट from high school, and, in the us, वहीँ हैं increasing अवसर लिये participating in post-secondary education.
शिक्षा और उचित care has been दिखाया to improve विशेषता of जीवन significantly.
अनेक वयस्कों साथ Down सिंड्रोम are समर्थ to work at paid नियुक्ति in the जातियाँ, while others require a अधिक sheltered कार्य environment.
Hot flashes ( also ज्ञात as hot flushes, or रात्रि sweats if वे happen at रात्रि ) are a symptom which may have अनेक अन्य कल्याणकारी, but which is often caused by the changing हार्मोन स्तर that हैं characteristic of रजोनिवृत्ति.
the servicemen 's Readjustment Act of 1944 ( p.l. 78-346, 58 स्टेट. 284m ), known informally as the g.i. Bill, was a law कि provided a दायरा of लाभ लिये returning संसार War II veterans ( commonly referred to as G.I.s ).
लाभ included low-cost mortgages, low-interest लोन to प्रारंभ a कारोबार or farm, cash payments of ट्यूशन and जीना खर्च to attend college, ऊँची स्कूल or वोकेशनल शिक्षा, as well as एक साल of बेरोजगारी compensation.
It was available to प्रत्येक दिग्गज who था been on क्रियाशील ड्यूटी during the युद्ध years for at least ninety दिनों and था not महरूम dishonorably discharged ; combat थी नहीं जरूरी.
By the end of the कार्यक्रम in 1956, roughly 2.2 लाख veterans had प्रयुक्त the g.i. विधेयक education लाभ in अनुक्रम to attend कॉलेजों or विश्वविद्यालयों, and an अतिरिक्त 6.6 लाख used these benefits लिये कुछ kind of प्रशिक्षण कार्यक्रम.
Since the असली 1944 विधि, the term has आइये to शामिल अन्य दिग्गज benefit कार्यक्रम created to assist दिग्गजों of subsequent युद्धों as खूब as peacetime सेवा.
इतिहासकारों and economists consider the g.i. विधेयक a प्रमुख राजनैतिक success—especially in कंट्रास्ट to the उपचार of World युद्ध i veterans—and a प्रमुख contribution to अमेरिका 's भण्डार of इंसान पूंजी that sped long-term आर्थिक growth.
The वाटरगेट scandal was a political कांड that occurred in the United राज्य in the 1970s as a परिणाम of the जून 17, 1972 break-in at the लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल कमेटी headquarters at the Watergate दफ्तर complex in वॉशिंगटन, D.C., and the निक्सन administration 's attempted cover-up of its भागीदारी.
the scandal आखिरकार led to the resignation of रिचर्ड Nixon, the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States, on अगस्त 9, 1974 — the तभी इस्तीफा of a U.S. अध्यक्ष.
the कांड भी resulted in the indictment, विचारण, conviction, और incarceration of forty-three व्यक्तियों, dozens of whom यहूद निक्सन 's top administration officials.
the affair began with the गिरफ़्तार of five मेन लिये तोड़कर और entering into the Democratic नेशनल कमेटी ( dnc ) headquarters at the Watergate जटिल on जून 17, 1972.
the Federal ब्यूरो of छानबीन ( एफबीआई ) connected नकदी found on the burglars to a slush निधि used by the Committee लिये the re-election of the अध्यक्ष, the official संगठन of Nixon 's campaign.
in जुलाई 1973, as प्रमाण mounted against the president 's स्टाफ, सहित गवाही provided by पूर्व staff सदस्यों in an छानबीन conducted by the Senate Watergate कमेटी, it was नाज़िल कि अध्यक्ष निक्सन था a tape-recording system in his कार्यालयों और he था recorded many बातचीत.
रिकार्डिंग इससे ये टेपों implicated the president, revealing he था attempted to कवर up the questionable ( and illegal ) goings-on कि had लिया place during his administration, both पहले और after the break-in.
After a protracted श्रेणी of bitter अदालत battles, the U.S. Supreme अदालत unanimously शासित that the president had to hand over the tapes to सरकारी investigators ; he ultimately complied.
facing near-certain महाभियोग in the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि और a दमदार सम्भावना of a conviction in the सीनेट, Nixon resigned the प्रेसिडेंसी on August 9, 1974.
उसके successor, जेराल्ड घाट, then जारी a pardon to him.
Elizabeth imogene Webber ( formerly lansing और स्पेंसर ) is a fictional character on the एबीसी Daytime साबुन ओपेरा सामान्य हॉस्पिटल.
एलिज़ाबेथ is the granddaughter of dr. स्टीव Hardy ( जॉन beradino ), एक of the originating कोर characters of the श्रेणी.
रेबेका Herbst originated the अक्षर on August 1, 1997 और रै महरूम the only contract अभिनेत्री to play the role.
Elizabeth is part of दो supercouple pairings, Lucky स्पेंसर and Elizabeth webber and Jason Morgan और Elizabeth webber.
the संयुक्त States प्रेसिडेंसी of Ronald Reagan, भी ज्ञात as the Reagan administration, थी a Republican प्रशासन headed by Ronald Reagan इससे जनवरी 20, 1981, to जनवरी 20, 1989.
Domestically, the प्रशासन favored reducing government programs and introduced the largest across-the-board tax कटौती in American history.
the आर्थिक policies enacted in 1981, known as `` reaganomics ``, यहूद an example of supply-side economics.
reagan aimed to प्रोत्साहित उद्यमिता and limit the विकास of सोशल बिता, as खूब as the कटौती of विनियमन और inflation.
Economic विकास saw a दमदार रिकवरी in the 1980s, helping Reagan to win a भूस्खलन re-election.
The नेशनल debt increased significantly, however.
regarding foreign नीति, the administration थी steadfastly anti-communist, कॉलिंग the सोवियत Union an `` दुष्ट साम्राज्य `` and समाप्ति 1970s détente.
Reagan accelerated the विशाल buildup of the सैन्य started by उसके पूर्ववर्ती, including an आक्रमण of हरा, the पहला प्रमुख overseas कार्रवाई by u.S. troops since the समाप्त of the वियतनाम युद्ध.
the `` Reagan Doctrine `` controversially granted सहायता to paramilitary forces seeking to फेकने कम्युनिस्ट governments, particularly in war-torn सेंट्रल अमेरिका and अफगानिस्तान.
reagan भी promoted new technologies ऐसे as मिसाइल defense प्रणालियों in अनुक्रम to confront the soviets and उनके allies.
in diplomacy, Reagan forged a strong गठबंधन साथ uk Prime मंत्री Margaret Thatcher, और he मिले with सोवियत सामान्य सचिव Mikhail Gorbachev चार टाइम्स, aiming to shrink the superpowers ' nuclear arsenals.
reagan 's प्रेसिडेंसी रै महरूम termed the `` Reagan Revolution '', or the आयु of reagan in recognition of the political realignment both within and परे the u.S. in एहसान of उसके ब्रांड of कोसा और उसके आस्था in फ़्री बाज़ार.
The reagan प्रशासन worked toward the collapse of सोवियत साम्यवादी, and it did पतन बस as he बाएँ office.
Victory in the Cold युद्ध led to a unipolar world साथ the u.S. as the world 's एकमात्र महाशक्ति.
जबकि the damaging Iran-Contra affair engulfed अनेक Reagan aides दौरान his दूसरी पद, Reagan खुद बाएँ office with a 63 percent approval rating, एक of the उच्चतर approval ratings of departing presidents.
After सालो of unstinting praise from the सही, और unrelenting आलोचना from the बाएँ, इतिहासकार दाउद हेनरी पाता कि by 2009 a सर्वसम्मति had emerged among विद्वानों कि reagan revived कोसा और turned the स्वदेश to the right by demonstrating a `` pragmatic conservatism '' that promoted विचारधारा within the constraints imposed by the divided राजनैतिक प्रणाली.
Furthermore, says Henry, the सर्वसम्मति viewpoint agrees कि he revived faith in the प्रेसिडेंसी और अमरीकी self-confidence, और contributed critically to ending the ठंडा युद्ध.
Crude death रेट by देश ( 2006 ).
Mortality रेट is a measure of the number of deaths ( in सामान्य, or due to a specific कारण ) in a जनसांख्यिकी.
Scaled to the size of कि जनसांख्यिकी, प्रति ईकाई of समय.
मृत्यु rate is typically expressed in units of मौतों प्रति 1000 individuals प्रति साल ; thus, a मृत्यु रेट of 9.5 ( आउट of 1000 ) in a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,000 would mean 9.5 मौतों per year in कि entire जनसांख्यिकी, or 0.95 % आउट of the total.
it is पृथक from morbidity रेट, जिससे refers to the क्रमांक of individuals in ग़रीब स्वास्थ्य दौरान a दिए time काल ( the prevalence रेट ) or the number of newly appearing मामले of the disease per ईकाई of समय ( incidence rate ).
The term `` मृत्यु `` is also sometimes inappropriately प्रयुक्त to refer to the क्रमांक of मौतों among a set of diagnosed hospital मामले लिये a disease or injury, बल्कि than लिये the सामान्य जनसांख्यिकी of a country or जातीय समूह.
इस disease mortality statistic is अधिक precisely referred to as `` case fatality rate `` ( cfr ).
एक distinguishes:
the crude death रेट, the कुल number of मौतों per year प्रति 1000 people.
the crude मौत rate for the पूरे world is परिचय 8.37 प्रति 1000 per साल according to the वर्तमान सीआईए संसार factbook.
the perinatal mortality रेट, the sum of neonatal मौतों और fetal मौतों ( stillbirths ) प्रति 1000 births.
the maternal मृत्यु ratio, the क्रमांक of maternal deaths प्रति 100,000 सजीव births in same समय period.
the मातृ mortality रेट, the क्रमांक of मातृ deaths प्रति 1,000 महिलाओं of reproductive आयु in the जनसांख्यिकी ( generally defined as 15–44 years of age ).
The शिशु मृत्यु rate, the क्रमांक of मौतों of children less than 1 साल बूढ़ा प्रति 1000 सजीव births.
the चाइल्ड mortality रेट, the क्रमांक of मौतों of children कम than 5 years old प्रति 1000 live births.
the standardised mortality अनुपात ( smr ) - इस represents a आंशिक तुलना to the numbers of deaths that would have been अपेक्षित if the जनसांख्यिकी था महरूम of a standard संयोजन in शर्तें of आयु, gender, इत्यादि.
The age-specific mortality rate ( asmr ) - This refers to the total number of मौतों per साल per 1000 लोगों of a given आयु ( e.g. आयु 62 पिछला जन्मदिवस ).
In लिहाज़ to the or failure of medical उपचार or procedures, एक होता भी distinguish:
The early mortality रेट, the कुल number of मौतों in the जल्दी चरण of an जारी treatment, or in the period तत्काल following an उपचार.
the late mortality रेट, the कुल number of deaths in the लेट stages of an जारी treatment, or a significant लंबाई of समय after an अधि उपचार.
Note कि the crude मौत rate as defined above and लागू to a पूरे जनसांख्यिकी can give a misleading छाप.
The crude मौत रेट depends on the आयु ( and लिंग ) specific मृत्यु दरों और the आयु ( and लिंग ) वितरण of the जनसांख्यिकी.
the number of मौतों प्रति 1000 लोगों can be higher for विकसित राष्ट्र than in less-developed countries, despite life प्रत्याशा being higher in विकसित countries due to standards of स्वास्थ्य being बेहतर.
इस happens क्युकी developed देशों typically have a completely different population age वितरण, साथ a much higher proportion of पुरानी people, due to दोनो lower हाल birth दरों and lower mortality दरों.
a more complete चित्र of मृत्यु is दिए by a life table जिससे shows the mortality रेट separately लिये प्रत्येक आयु.
a life तालिका is जरुरी to दे a शुभ estimate of जीवन प्रत्याशा.
An otoacoustic emission ( oae ) is a ध्वनि which is उत्पन्न from within the inner कान.
having been पूर्वानुमानित by Thomas सुनहरा in 1948, its existence थी first demonstrated experimentally by David kemp in 1978 और otoacoustic emissions have since महरूम दिखाया to उठता by a number of अलग सेल्यूलर mechanisms within the inner ear.
अध्ययन have shown that oaes गायब बाद the inner कान रै महरूम क्षतिग्रस्त, so oaes are प्रायः प्रयुक्त in the प्रयोगशाला and the क्लिनिक as a measure of भीतरी कान स्वास्थ्य.
broadly speaking, there हैं two types of otoacoustic emissions : spontaneous otoacoustic emissions ( soaes ), जिससे can occur बगैर external उत्तेजनाओं, और जगाई otoacoustic emissions ( eoaes ), which आवश्यकता an evoking stimulus.
hurricane टॉमस थी the उन्नीसवीं named तूफ़ान और बारहवीं hurricane of the 2010 Atlantic hurricane season.
Tomas विकसित इससे a tropical वेव ईस्ट of the windward Islands on अक्तूबर 29.
Quickly intensifying into a hurricane, it स्थानांतरित through the windward Islands और passed बहुत near Saint लूसिया.
बाद reaching श्रेणी 2 status on the saffir-simpson स्केल, टॉमस quickly weakened to a तीव्र तूफ़ान in the सेंट्रल caribbean Sea, due to दमदार हवा shear और शुष्क air.
टॉमस बाद regained hurricane status as it reorganized near the windward ड्योढ़ी.
Throughout the hurricane 's path, 71 लोगों are known to have महरूम मारे, 14 of whom were in संत लूसिया.
मौद्रिक losses throughout the windward आइलैंड्स were estimated at us $ 588 लाख, मुख्यतः in संत Lucia.
In the वेक of the तूफ़ान in Haiti, flooding intensified an ongoing cholera outbreak indirectly causing अधिक fatalities.
According to a रपट released in दिसम्बर 2010, 55 people were killed in Cuba और hispanola, हालांकि the distribution of ये fatalities are अनजान.
overall damage इससे the storm was at least $ 741 लाख.
Victoria Jackson ( born August 2, 1959 ) is an अमरीकी comedian, अभिनेत्री, satirist, singer and अंतरजाल blogger बेहतरीन known as a डाल member of the NBC टेलीविज़न sketch comedy श्रेणी Saturday रात्रि सजीव ( SNL ) from 1986 to 1992.
She रै प्राप्त attention as a vocal आलोचक of President Barack ओबामा, and is an active भागीदार in the Tea पार्टी गति.
postmodern साहित्य is literature characterized by भारी reliance on तकनीकों जैसे fragmentation, विरोधाभास, and questionable narrators, और is often ( हालांकि नहीं exclusively ) पारिभाषित as a स्टाइल or ट्रेंड जिससे उभरा in the post–world युद्ध ii era.
postmodern works हैं देखी as a प्रतिक्रिया विरूद्ध Enlightenment सोच and modernist approaches to साहित्य.
Postmodern literature, जैसे postmodernism as a whole, tends to resist परिभाषा or वर्गीकरण as a `` गति ''.
बेशक, the अभिसरण of postmodern literature with विभिन्न modes of नाजुक theory, particularly reader-response और deconstructionist approaches, and the subversions of the अव्यक्त अनुबंध between लेखक, टेक्स्ट और reader by जिससे इसके works हैं often characterised, have led to pre-modern fictions such as cervantes ' Don Quixote ( 1605,1615 ) और laurence Sterne 's eighteenth-century व्यंग्य tristram shandy होने retrospectively inducted into the fold.
जबकि वहीँ is little consensus on the precise विशेषताएँ, पैमाना, and importance of postmodern literature, as is often the मामला with कलाकारी movements, postmodern literature is commonly defined in संबंध to a precursor.
For उदाहरण, a postmodern साहित्यिक work tends नहीं to conclude साथ the neatly tied-up समाप्ति as is often found in modernist literature, but प्रायः parodies it.
Postmodern लेखक tend to celebrate मौका over शिल्प, and further employ metafiction to undermine the लेखक 's प्राधिकार.
another characteristic of postmodern साहित्य is the questioning of भेद between ऊँची और कम संस्कृति through the उपयोग of pastiche, the संयोजन of subjects और genres not previously deemed अनुरूप लिये साहित्य.
पहेली is an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक musical प्रोजेक्ट संस्थापित in Germany by माइकल cretu, दाउद Fairstein और फ़्रैंक पीटरसन in 1990.
The romanian-born Cretu conceived the Enigma project while working in Germany, लकिन आधारित उसके रिकॉर्डिंग studio A.R.T. Studios in ibiza, स्पेन, from the जल्दी 1990s जबतक may 2009, where he has recorded सब of पहेली 's studio रिलीज to date.
Cretu is दोनो the composer और the निर्माता of the प्रोजेक्ट.
उसके पूर्व wife, पॉप सिंगर Sandra, often provided vocals on Enigma tracks.
जेंस Gad co-arranged and played गिटार on three of the पहेली albums.
पीटर कॉर्नेलियस also contributed to पहेली दौरान the 1990s.
सात studio albums have महरूम उत्पादित अंतर्गत the नाम of the project.
scooby-doo is an American animated कार्टून मताधिकार, comprising अनेक एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न series produced from 1969 to the उपस्थित दिन.
The असली series, Scooby-Doo, Where हैं तुम !
, थी निर्मित लिये hanna-barbera प्रोडक्शन्स by लेखक जो माणिक्य और केन स्पीयर्स in 1969.
इस Saturday morning कार्टून series प्रदर्शित चार teenagers— फ्रेड Jones, daphne Blake, velma Dinkley, और norville `` Shaggy '' Rogers — और their talking brown ग्रेट Dane dog named Scooby-Doo, जो solve रहस्यों involving माना अलौकिक जीव through a series of antics and missteps.
following the कामयाबी of the असली series, Hanna-Barbera and इसके successor warner Bros. एनिमेशन have उत्पादित numerous follow-up and spin-off एनिमेटेड श्रेणी and अनेक related works, सहित television specials और telefilms, a लकीर of direct-to-video films, और दो Warner भाईs. –produced नाट्य विशेषता films.
कुछ संस्करण of scooby-doo feature different विसंगतियाँ on the show 's अलौकिक theme, और शामिल वर्ण ऐसे as स्कूबी 's cousin scooby-dum और nephew Scrappy-Doo in जोड to or instead of some of the असली वर्ण.
scooby-doo was originally ब्रॉडकास्ट on सीबीएस from 1969 to 1976, when it moved to एबीसी.
ABC aired the दिखाएँ until canceling it in 1986, और presented a spin-off featuring the वर्ण as children, A Pup नामित scooby-doo, from 1988 जबतक 1991.
दो नई scooby-doo श्रेणी, What 's नई, scooby-doo ?
and Shaggy और scooby-doo Get a a Clue ! ] ], aired as part of बच्चे WB on the WB संजाल and its successor, the cw संजाल, from 2002 until 2008.
the most हाल Scooby-Doo series, scooby-doo !
Mystery incorporated, aired on Cartoon संजाल from 2010 to 2013.
Repeats of the विभिन्न scooby-doo श्रेणी हैं ब्रॉडकास्ट अक्सर on कार्टून संजाल और boomerang in the संयुक्त राज्य और अन्य countries.
कॉल of ड्यूटी is a first-person और third-person शूटर computer/ वीडियो game मताधिकार.
the श्रेणी began on the pc, और बाद विस्तारित to consoles and handhelds.
Several spin-off games have भी महरूम released.
the पहले खेल in the श्रेणी हैं नियत primarily in World युद्ध II, इस includes : कॉल of ड्यूटी, कॉल of Duty 2, और Call of Duty 3.
शुरूआत साथ Modern warfare, जिससे is set in modern times, the series रै shifted focus दूर इससे संसार War ii.
Call of ड्यूटी 4 : आधुनिक warfare ( released नवम्बर 2007 ) थी followed by कॉल of ड्यूटी : संसार at युद्ध and कॉल of ड्यूटी : आधुनिक warfare 2.
ब्लैक ops ( released नवम्बर 2010 ) takes प्लेस in the ठंडा War, जबकि आधुनिक warfare 3 ( released नवम्बर 2011 ) takes प्लेस in the near-future सेटिंग.
Black Ops 2 ( released November 13, 2012 ) takes place in the साल 2025.
the Call of Duty games हैं published और स्वामित्व by एक्टिविजन साथ aspyr Media प्रकाशन it लिये ठहराना os x.
While the स्टुडियो अनंत Ward primarily still develops उन्हें, treyarch has भी विकसित several of the titles साथ the रिलीज of the studios ' खेल interlaced साथ प्रत्येक अन्य.
Some खेल have been developed by Gray Matter इंटरैक्टिव, चिंगारी असीमित, विस्मित entertainment, n-Space, विद्रोह developments, ideaworks Game स्टुडियो, Sledgehammer खेल and nStigate खेल.
the खेल उपयोग a किस्में of इंजन, सहित the id Tech 3, the treyarch ngl, and the iw 5.0.
अन्य products in the मताधिकार शामिल a line of action figures designed by plan-b Toys, a card game created by अपर Deck, and a कॉमिक book mini-series published by wildstorm.
as of नवम्बर 11, 2011, the Call of ड्यूटी श्रेणी have बेची over 100 million copies.
as of कूच 31, 2012 वहीँ are 40 लाख मासिक क्रियाशील खिलाड़ी across सब of the Call of Duty titles, साथ 10 लाख कॉल of ड्यूटी : elite उपयोक्ता और 2 लाख paying सालाना members.
Over 1.6 अरब hours of ऑनलाइन gameplay have been logged आधुनिक warfare 3 since its 2011 release.
the एस्टेट कर in the संयुक्त राज्य is a tax imposed on the ट्रांसफ़र of the `` taxable एस्टेट `` of a deceased person, whether such प्रॉपर्टी is transferred via a होगा, according to the राज्य laws of intestacy or वरना बना as an incident of the मौत of the मालिक, such as a ट्रांसफ़र of प्रॉपर्टी इससे an intestate estate or trust, or the payment of certain जीवन बीमे benefits or वित्तीय खाता रकम to beneficiaries.
The एस्टेट कर is one part of the Unified तोहफा और एस्टेट कर system in the United राज्य.
the other भाग of the प्रणाली, the gift tax, imposes a tax on हस्तांतरण of प्रॉपर्टी दौरान a person 's जीवन ; the तोहफा tax prevents avoidance of the estate कर चाहिए a व्यक्ति want to दे दूर his/her estate.
In addition to the federal सरकारी, अनेक राज्य भी थोपने an एस्टेट कर, साथ the state संस्करण पुकारा either an estate कर or an उत्तराधिकार कर.
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों of the estate tax कॉल it the `` death कर ''.
If an एसेट is left to a spouse or a federally पहचाना दान, the tax usually करता नहीं apply.
in जोड, up to $ 5,250,000 can be दिए by an individual, before and/or upon their death, बगैर incurring federal gift or एस्टेट taxes.
गेविन मैकग्रेगर rossdale ( born 30 अक्तूबर 1967 ) is an English कर्ता और संगीतकार, known as the lead सिंगर and लय guitarist of the rock बैंड Bush.
Following बुश 's separation in 2002, जिससे lasted लिये eight years, he was the सीसे सिंगर and guitarist लिये संस्थान, and later began a सोलो करियर.
When performing solo, Gavin plays गीतों इससे his extensive musical पुस्तकालयों.
Rossdale has महरूम क्रमित in the शीर्ष 100 Heavy मेटल vocalists by Hit parader ( # 75 ).
raffaello Sanzio da Urbino ( अप्रैल 6 or कूच 28, 1483 – April 6, 1520 ), बेहतर ज्ञात simply as राफेल, थी an इतालवी चित्रकार और architect of the High Renaissance.
उसके कार्य is admired for its स्पष्टता of form and ease of संयोजन और लिये इसके visual achievement of the neoplatonic आदर्श of इंसान grandeur.
साथ with michelangelo और लियोनार्डो da Vinci, he फ़ॉर्म the traditional trinity of ग्रेट मास्टर्स of कि काल.
राफेल थी enormously productive, कार्यशील an unusually large कार्यशाला, और despite उसके death at 37, a विशाल देह of his कार्य remains.
Many of his works हैं मिला in the वेटिकन राजमहल, जहाँ the frescoed राफेल Rooms यहूद the central, और the largest, कार्य of उसके career.
The बेहतरीन ज्ञात work is the स्कूल of Athens in the वेटिकन Stanza देला segnatura.
बाद उसके जल्दी सालो in Rome much of his कार्य थी self-designed, but लिये the सबसे भाग चलाया by the कार्यशाला from उसके drawings, with considerable घाटा of विशेषता.
He was extremely influential in his आजीवन, हालांकि बाहर रोम उसके work थी ज़्यादातर known इससे उसके collaborative printmaking.
बाद his मौत, the influence of his ग्रेट प्रतिद्वंद्वी michelangelo थी अधिक widespread जबतक the 18th और 19th सदियां, जब Raphael 's more निर्मल और harmonious qualities यहूद again regarded as the उच्चतम मॉडल.
उसके करियर जलप्रपात naturally into three phases and तीन styles, पहला वर्णित by giorgio vasari : उसके early सालो in Umbria, then a period of परिचय चार सालो ( इससे 1504–1508 ) absorbing the artistic परंपराओं of Florence, followed by his last hectic और triumphant twelve years in Rome, working लिये two Popes और their close शरीक.
Julia Fiona रॉबर्ट्स ( born October 28, 1967 ) is an अमरीकी actress.
वो became a Hollywood स्टार बाद headlining the romantic comedy Pretty स्त्री ( 1990 ), जिससे grossed $ 464 million विश्वव्यापी.
After receiving सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार and अकादमी पुरस्कार nominations for Steel magnolias ( 1989 ) and Pretty स्त्री, वो जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार for बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री लिये उसके performance in एरिन brockovich ( 2000 ).
उसके films the Pelican ब्रैड ( 1993 ), my Best dost 's Wedding ( 1997 ), Mystic पिज़्ज़ा ( 1988 ), नॉटिंग हिल ( 1999 ), runaway बहू ( 1999 ), Ocean 's ग्यारह ( 2001 ), समंदर 's Twelve ( 2004 ), Charlie Wilson 's युद्ध ( 2007 ), Valentine 's दिन ( 2010 ), खा Pray प्रेम ( 2010 ), and Mirror Mirror ( 2012 ) have collectively brought बक्सा office रसीदें of over $ 2.6 billion, बनाना उसके one of the most कामयाब अभिनेत्रियों in terms of बक्सा दफ्तर रसीदें.
रॉबर्ट्स था become एक of the highest-paid अभिनेत्रियों in the संसार, टॉपिंग The Hollywood पत्रकारों सालाना `` power सूची '' of top-earning मादा सितारों from 2005 to 2006.
उसके fee लिये 1990 's pretty Woman थी $ 300,000 ; in 2003, she was सशुल्क an unprecedented $ 25 लाख for उसके भूमिका in Mona Lisa Smile ( 2003 ).
As of 2010, रॉबर्ट्स 's जाल worth was estimated to be $ 140 लाख.
रॉबर्ट्स रै महरूम named एक of लोगों magazine 's `` 50 Most खूबसूरत लोगों in the World '' eleven times, tied साथ हैल बेरी.
In 2011, वो थी नामित एक of the `` 100 hottest Women of all-time '' by मेन 's स्वास्थ्य.
in 2001, Ladies घर Journal क्रमित her as the 11th most powerful स्त्री in the United राज्य.
चिह्नित इलियट Zuckerberg ( born may 14, 1984 ) is an अमरीकी computer प्रोग्रामर और Internet उद्योगों.
he is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as एक of five co-founders of the social नेटवर्किंग जालस्थल फेसबुक.
as of अप्रैल 2013, Zuckerberg is the chairman and मुख्य कार्यपालिका of Facebook, Inc. और in 2013 उसके निजी माल was अनुमानित to be US $ 13.3 अरब.
साथ with उसके college roommates और fellow हार्वर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों students एडुआर्डो Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes, zuckerberg launched Facebook from हार्वर्ड 's शयनागार कक्ष.
the समूह तब introduced फेसबुक onto अन्य campuses देशभर और स्थानांतरित to पालो आल्टो, California, संयुक्त राज्य ( U.S. ) shortly afterwards.
in 2007, at the आयु of twenty-three सालो, Zuckerberg became a billionaire as a result of फेसबुक and the क्रमांक of Facebook उपयोक्ता विश्वव्यापी पहुँचे a total of one अरब in 2012.
zuckerberg was involved in विभिन्न legal disputes कि यहूद initiated by others in the group, जो claimed a share of the कम्पनी आधारित upon their involvement दौरान the विकास phase of फेसबुक.
Since 2010, Zuckerberg रै महरूम नामित among the 100 wealthiest और सबसे influential लोगों in the संसार by समय magazine as a भाग of इसके Person of the साल accolade.
Zuckerberg थी played by कर्ता Jesse eisenberg in the 2010 हॉलीवुड फिल्मी the सोशल संजाल in जिससे the rise of फेसबुक is portrayed.
the Mayflower was the जलयान that in 1620 transported 102 अंग्रेज़ी तीर्थयात्रियों, सहित a कोर समूह of separatists, to नई इंग्लैण्ड.
Their स्टोरी is one of travail and अस्तित्व in a हर्ष New संसार environment.
framedthe
कमेटी of Ways और अर्थात् is the मुख्य tax -writing committee of the United States House of Representatives.
Members of the तरीके और Means कमेटी हैं नहीं allowed to serve on कोई other हाउस Committees जबतक वे apply लिये a waiver इससे उनके पार्टी 's congressional leadership.
the कमेटी has jurisdiction over सब कराधान, tariffs and अन्य revenue-raising उपायों, as खूब as a number of other programs including:
सोशल Security
Unemployment लाभ
medicare
प्रवर्तन of child support laws
अस्थाई सहायता लिये मोहताज परिवारों, a संघीय welfare कार्यक्रम
Foster परवाह और adoption कार्यक्रम
The U.S. Constitution requires कि सब bills regarding taxation जरूर originate in the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि.
चूंकि House procedure is कि सब बिल्स regarding कराधान जरूर go through इस कमेटी, the committee is बहुत influential, as is इसके सीनेट बंटवारा, the U.S. सीनेट कमेटी on वित्त.
The तरीके and अर्थात् कमेटी in the 111th कॉंग्रेस थी chaired by चार्ली Rangel, who था लिया a छोड़ of अनुपस्थिति as chairman until हाउस आचार उल्लंघनों यहूद resolved.
However, his leave of अनुपस्थिति as chairman was शासित to be a इस्तीफा.
पीट स्टार्क resigned as acting अध्यक्ष, so Sander Levin आयोजित कि position until the प्रारंभ of the 112th कॉंग्रेस.
डेव शिविर became the कमेटी chair लिये the 112th कॉंग्रेस, बाद the republicans जीती कंट्रोल of the हाउस in the 2010 चुनाव.
The blue व्हेल ( balaenoptera musculus ) is a समुद्री स्तनधारी belonging to the suborder of baleen whales ( called mysticeti ).
At in लंबाई और or अधिक in weight, it is the largest known एनिमल to have कभी existed.
long and slender, the ब्लू व्हेल 's body can be various shades of bluish-grey dorsally और somewhat हल्का underneath.
वहीँ हैं at least three पृथक subspecies : B. m. musculus of the North अटलांटिक and उत्तर प्रशांत, B. m. intermedia of the Southern Ocean and B. m. brevicauda ( भी ज्ञात as the सानो ब्लू whale ) found in the भारतीय समंदर और South प्रशांत समंदर.
B. m. इंडिका, found in the भारतीय समंदर, may be another subspecies.
as with other baleen whales, its आहार consists लगभग exclusively of छोटी crustaceans ज्ञात as krill.
Blue whales यहूद abundant in nearly all the महासागर on धरती जबतक the शुरूआत of the twentieth century.
लिये over a सदी, वे were hunted लगभग to extinction by whalers जबतक protected by the international जातियाँ in 1966.
A 2002 रपट अनुमानित वहीँ were 5,000 to 12,000 ब्लू whales worldwide, स्तिथ in at तनिक पाँच समूह.
अधिक recent research into the सानो subspecies suggests इस may be an underestimate.
पहले whaling, the largest जनसांख्यिकी was in the Antarctic, क्रमांकन लगभग 239,000 ( दायरा 202,000 to 311,000 ).
वहीँ remain only much छोटी ( around 2,000 ) एकाग्रता in each of the पूर्वी उत्तर प्रशांत, Antarctic, और Indian Ocean groups.
वहीँ are दो more groups in the उत्तर अटलांटिक, और at तनिक दो in the Southern Hemisphere.
the ग्लोब artichoke ( cynara cardunculus var. scolymus ) is a किस्में of a species of thistle cultivated as a खाना.
the edible matter is buds that form भीतर the flower heads before the पुष्प आइये into bloom.
the buds go दूर or बदलें to a coarse, मुश्किल edible रूप when the flower blooms.
The uncultivated or जंगली variety of the species is पुकारा a cardoon.
it is a perennial plant native to the भूमध्यसागरीय प्रदेश.
The संयुक्त States एक hundred-dollar bill ( $ 100 ) is a denomination of संयुक्त States currency.
U.S. statesman, inventor, and diplomat Benjamin फ्रैंकलिन is फिलहाल प्रदर्शित on the obverse of the विधेयक.
On the रिवर्स of the banknote is an चित्र of स्वतंत्रता हॉल.
the $ 100 विधेयक is the largest denomination that रै been मुद्रित since July 13, 1969, when the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, and $ 10,000 were retired.
the ब्यूरो of नक्काशी and मुद्रण says the औसत जीवन of a $ 100 bill in परिसंचरण is 90 months ( 7.5 years ) before it is replaced due to पहनें और आंसू.
the बिल्स हैं also commonly referred to as `` Benjamins '', in reference to the use of बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन 's पोर्ट्रेट on the denomination, or `` c-notes '', आधारित on the रोमन numeral लिये 100.
the विधेयक is one of दो denominations printed आज that करता not feature a President of the United राज्य ; the other is the $ 10 bill, featuring सिकंदर Hamilton.
the time on the clock of स्वतंत्रता Hall on the रिवर्स, according to the u.S. ब्यूरो of नक्काशी and Printing, shows लगभग 4:10.
One सौ hundred-dollar बिल्स हैं delivered by Federal आरक्षित Banks in mustard-colored straps ( $ 10,000 ).
the Series 2009 $ 100 विधेयक redesign थी अनावरण on अप्रैल 21, 2010, and was to be जारी to the public on फ़रवरी 11, 2011, लकिन उत्पादन was shut down in दिसम्बर 2010 क्युकी as अनेक as 30 % were अनुपयोगी due to a manufacturing flaw.
A लंबवत क्रीज in the paper reveals a blank स्पेस on the bill जब pulled out.
in उनके replacement, and continuing the high demand of इस denomination, the श्रेणी 2006a थी शुभारम्भ retaining the previous डिज़ाइन ( 1996-generation ).
on अप्रैल 24, 2013, the संघीय Reserve घोषित the नई $ 100 bill होता enter circulation on अक्तूबर 8, 2013.
किंग दाउद in robes of a बीज़ान्टिन emperor.
miniature from the Paris Psalter.
दाउद ( ; ISO 259-3 dawid ; ' ; Strong 's : daveed ) according to the Hebrew बाइबल, थी the second किंग of the United किंगडम of इसराईल, and according to the नई Testament gospels of मैथ्यू और Luke, an ancestor of यीशु.
His life is conventionally दिनाँक to c. 1040–970 bce, his reign over Judah c. 1010–1002 BCE, और उसके शासनकाल over the United Kingdom of Israel c. 1002–970 BCE.
The Books of सैमुएल, 1 किंग्स, and 1 Chronicles हैं the only sources of सूचना on David, although the Tel Dan stele ( दिनाँक c. 850–835 bce ) contains the phrase ( bytdwd ), read as `` House of David '', जिससे most scholars लो as पुष्टि of the existence in the mid-9th सदी BCE of a judean royal dynasty पुकारा the हाउस of दाउद.
He is चित्रित as a righteous किंग, हालांकि नहीं बगैर त्रुटियां, as well as an acclaimed योद्धा, संगीतकार, and कवि, traditionally credited लिये composing many of the psalms contained in the Book of ज़बूर.
दाउद is central to यहूदी, Christian, और Islamic doctrine और culture.
biblical tradition maintains कि a सीधा वंशज of दाउद will be the Messiah.
in islam he is माना to be a prophet और the किंग of a nation.
काठमांडू ( ; ) is the पूंजी and largest शहरी agglomerate of नेपाल.
The agglomerate consists of काठमांडू महानगर नगर at its कोर, and इसके sister शहरों patan, Kirtipur, Thimi, and Bhaktapur.
It also includes the recently पहचाना शहरी क्षेत्रों of shankhapur, Karyabinayak, और champapur.
banepa, Dhulikhel, and panauti हैं satellite urban areas of काठमांडू located बस बाहर the Kathmandu घाटी.
Kathmandu is also ज्ञात informally as `` ktm '' or the `` tri-city ''.
according to a जनसांख्यिकी conducted in 2011, Kathmandu metropolis alone रै 975,453 inhabitants ; and the agglomerate रै a जनसांख्यिकी of more than 2.5 million निवासियों.
The महानगर नगर क्षेत्रफल is और रै a जनसांख्यिकी density of 19,250 per km2.
the नगर स्टैंड at an उन्नयन of लगभग in the bowl-shaped Kathmandu घाटी of central नेपाल.
It is surrounded by four major mountains : shivapuri, Phulchoki, nagarjun, और चंद्रगिरि.
काठमांडू घाटी is भाग of तीन जिले ( काठमांडू, ललितपुर, और भक्तपुर ), रै the highest जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व in the country, और is घर to परिचय a twelfth of नेपाल 's जनसांख्यिकी.
दौरान rana और शाह eras, the नाम `` नेपाल '' referred तभी to the काठमांडू Valley ; it थी कया people जो जिया outside the घाटी पुकारा it.
During इस काल, अंग्रेजों इतिहासकारों पुकारा the घाटी itself `` नेपाल Proper ''.
आज, काठमांडू is not only the capital of the संघीय लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of नेपाल, but भी the मुख्यालय of the Central Development Region of नेपाल.
the सेंट्रल प्रदेश comprises three zones : bagmati, narayani, और Janakpur.
Kathmandu is स्तिथ in the bagmati Zone.
Kathmandu is the gateway to पर्यटन in नेपाल.
it is भी the nerve बीच of the देश 's अर्थव्यवस्था.
it has the most उन्नत infrastructure of any urban area in Nepal, और its economy is केन्द्रित on पर्यटन, जिससे accounted for 3.8 % of नेपाल 's जीडीपी in 1995–96.
( Tourism in काठमांडू declined thereafter दौरान a period of राजनैतिक unrest, लकिन since तब रै improved. )
The city has a समृद्ध इतिहास, spanning nearly 2000 सालो, as inferred from inscriptions मिला in the घाटी.
Religious and सांस्कृतिक festivities form a प्रमुख part of the जीवनदान of people residing in काठमांडू.
सबसे of काठमांडू 's people follow हिंदुत्व और अनेक अन्य follow buddhism.
वहीँ are लोगों of अन्य religious beliefs as well, giving काठमांडू a कॉस्मोपॉलिटन संस्कृति.
नेपाली is the सबसे commonly बोला भाषा in the city.
Nepal bhasa is the indigenous भाषा spoken by the नेवार लोगों.
Hindi is widely understood और अंग्रेज़ी is understood by काठमांडू 's educated निवासियों.
The city 's literacy rate is 98 %.
काठमांडू 's सिस्टर शहरों ( ललितपुर patan ) and भक्तपुर हैं अभिन्न to Kathmandu 's सांस्कृतिक heritage, पर्यटन industry, और economy ; therefore UNESCO 's संसार विरासत साईट सूचियाँ all तीन cities ' monuments and आकर्षण साथ अंतर्गत एक heading, `` काठमांडू Valley- युनेस्को संसार Heritage साईट ``.
फ़ील्ड हॉकी, usually referred to simply as हॉकी, is a टोली खेल of the हॉकी परिवार जिससे is निभाई between दो teams of eleven खिलाड़ी with हॉकी sticks और a मुश्किल, solid plastic बॉल.
at the turn of the 21st सदी, the game is played globally, साथ particular popularity throughout यूरोपीय, Asia, महासागरीय, और South America – in जोड to होने the national खेल of Pakistan और India.
the पद `` field हॉकी '' is used primarily in कनाडा, the United राज्य, and other regions of the world जहाँ the sport of बर्फ हॉकी is अधिक लोकप्रिय.
दौरान खेल, लक्ष्य keepers हैं the तभी खिलाड़ी who हैं अनुमत to touch the बॉल with कोई भाग of their देह ( साथ the एक्सेप्शन of a player 's hand considered 'part of the स्टिक ' ), with this तभी applying भीतर the shooting वृत्त ( भी ज्ञात as the D, or शूटिंग चाप, or just the वृत्त ), जबकि field players खेल the बॉल with the flat side of उनके स्टिक.
The team कि स्कोर the सबसे लक्ष्य by the समाप्त of the match विन्स.
if the score is tied at the समाप्त of the खेल, either a draw is घोषित or the game goes into अतिरिक्त समय and/or a penalty shootout, depending on the प्रतियोगिता 's format.
The शासी body of हॉकी is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय हॉकी संघ ( fih ), with men और women होने represented internationally in competitions सहित the Olympic games, राष्ट्रमंडल games, Hockey World Cup, Champions ट्रॉफी और जूनियर हॉकी संसार कप, with many countries कार्यशील extensive junior, senior, and masters ' क्लबों प्रतियोगिताओं.
the fih is भी जिम्मेदार लिये organising the Hockey Rules Board और विकासशील the rules for the sport.
a लोकप्रिय रूपांतर of field हॉकी is indoor हॉकी, जिससे differs in a number of respects जबकि मूर्त the primary principles of हॉकी.
Indoor हॉकी is a 6-a-side variant, साथ a field जिससे is reduced to लगभग 40m × 20m.
With अनेक of the नियम बाकी the same, सहित रुकावट और फीट, there हैं several key variations - खिलाड़ी may not raise the बॉल जबतक शूटिंग on लक्ष्य, players may नहीं hit the बॉल ( बजाय utilising pushes to transfer the ball ), and the sidelines हैं replaced साथ solid barriers जिससे the बॉल होगा rebound off.
ethan `` cane '' ashby ( né Atkinson ) is a fictional character from the American सीबीएस soap ओपेरा the यंग और the Restless.
he is portrayed by ऑस्ट्रेलियाई कर्ता Daniel गोडार्ड, जो originally auditioned लिये ब्रैड स्नाइडर on as the संसार turns लकिन was recommended लिये a role on The Young and the बेचैन बजाय.
the भूमिका थी to be portrayed as an American, लकिन गोडार्ड 's ऑस्ट्रेलियाई descent बहकावे the अक्षर 's background.
पूर्व सिर लेखक lynn मारी Latham introduced उसे दौरान the एपीसोड airing on January 12, 2007 as an ऑस्ट्रेलियाई bartender in search of his family, a डेब्यू कि प्राप्त a mixed जवाब.
Latham created cane as the son of फिलिप चांसलर ii ( donnelly rhodes ) और Jill फोस्टर एबॉट ( जेस वाल्टन ) लकिन the अक्षर 's background was rewritten by मरिया Arena Bell in 2009, reestablishing him as the son of कोलिन और genevieve एटकिन्सन ( ट्रिस्टन रोजर्स and जिनी फ्रांसिस ).
Though characterized as `` mysterious '', cane is `` loyal और समर्पित '', जबकि गोडार्ड described the अक्षर as a `` ठेठ Australian, working-class दयालु of guy ''.
He थी the पहला member of the Atkinson family to appear on the श्रेणी, followed by his parents and identical twin bhai.
Soon after उसके debut, he became a leading character, a निर्णय praised by दर्शक and critics.
The अक्षर रै महरूम involved with एम्बर मूर ( Adrienne frantz ), Chloe मिशेल ( एलिज़ाबेथ hendrickson ) और सबसे notably लिली सर्दियों ( christel Khalil ), a romance that garnered significant प्रशंसक ध्यान.
in 2009, Cane और Lily were शादीशुदा ; Global bc would later कॉल लिली the love of cane 's जीवन.
the जोड़ी था दो children, चार्ली और Mattie Ashby.
in 2011, the actor थी fired, और cane was शॉट to मौत onscreen.
however, Goddard थी rehired जल्द बाद दर्शक campaigned लिये his वापसी, revealing कि cane 's एकसमान twin brother थी in फैक्ट the man who died.
This कुर्बान उसके विवाह to लिली, लकिन the युगल यहूद remarried on वेलेंटाइन 's Day in 2012.
गोडार्ड रै been widely acclaimed for his portrayal ; Canyon न्यूज कहा कि he portrays the अक्षर honestly, और is `` सदा dependable, on fire और रोमांचक ''.
जॉन क्रिस्टोफर `` जॉनी '' डेप II ( born June 9, 1963 ) is an अमरीकी actor, film निर्माता, and संगीतकार.
he has won the सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार और Screen Actors गिल्ड पुरस्कार for बेहतरीन कर्ता.
डेप रोज़ to prominence on the 1980s टेलीविज़न श्रेणी 21 जम्प गली, becoming a टीन आइडल.
असंतुष्ट साथ that औकात, डेप turned to film for अधिक challenging भूमिकाएँ ; he निभाई the शीर्षक अक्षर of the acclaimed एडवर्ड Scissorhands ( 1990 ) और बाद मिला box office कामयाबी in films ऐसे as sleepy Hollow ( 1999 ), Charlie and the चॉकलेट फैक्टरी ( 2005 ), ऐलिस in Wonderland ( 2010 ), rango ( 2011 ) and the pirates of the Caribbean film श्रेणी ( 2003–present ).
He रै collaborated साथ निदेशक और dost टिम बर्टन in आठ films ; the सबसे हाल being अंधेरा Shadows ( 2012 ).
Depp रै gained acclaim लिये his portrayals of such लोगों as Ed लकडी in ed लकडी, Joseph D. Pistone in donnie brasco, शिकारी S. थॉम्पसन in Fear and Loathing in लास वेगास, जार्ज जंग in उड़ा, और the bank robber जॉन dillinger in Michael मन 's पब्लिक दुश्मनों.
films featuring डेप have grossed over $ 3.1 billion at the संयुक्त States बक्सा दफ्तर and over $ 7.6 अरब विश्वव्यापी.
he रै been nominated for top पुरस्कार अनेक टाइम्स, जीतना the बेहतरीन Actor पुरस्कार इससे the Golden –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy ग्लोब्स –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy लिये Sweeney टॉड : the Demon नाई of बेड़े गली और इससे the स्क्रीन Actors Guild लिये Pirates of the caribbean : the अभिशाप of the ब्लैक पर्ल.
he भी रै garnered a sex प्रतीक status in American सिनेमा, being twice named as the `` sexiest Man जिंदा `` by People पत्रिका in 2003 और 2009.
He रै महरूम listed in the 2012 Guinness Book of संसार रिकॉर्ड as the उच्चतम paid कर्ता, साथ $ 75 लाख.
the संसार Wide Web ( abbreviated as WWW or w3, commonly ज्ञात as the वेब ), is a प्रणाली of interlinked hypertext documents पहुँचा via the अंतरजाल.
साथ a web browser, एक can view web पृष्ठों कि may contain text, बिंब, videos, और अन्य multimedia, और navigate between उन्हें via hyperlinks.
using अवधारणाओं इससे उसके पहले hypertext प्रणालियों जैसे enquire, अंग्रेजों इंजीनियर, कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक and at कि समय employee of the cern, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, now निदेशक of the World चौड़ी वेब consortium ( w3c ), लिखा a प्रस्ताव in March 1989 लिये कया होता आखिरकार become the संसार चौड़ी Web.
at cern, a European research संगठन निकट जेनेवा straddling the किनारा between France और स्विट्ज़रलैंड, Berners-Lee और belgian कंप्यूटर scientist रॉबर्ट Cailliau proposed in 1990 to use hypertext `` to कड़ी और अभिगम सूचना of various kinds as a वेब of नोड in which the user can browse at होगा '', और they publicly introduced the प्रोजेक्ट in दिसम्बर of the same year.
चिह्नित ट्रैविस John सांचेज़ ( born नवम्बर 11, 1986 ) is an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक लिये the नई York Jets of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League ( एनएफएल ).
He थी drafted in the पहला गोलाकार of the 2009 एनएफएल Draft as the fifth overall चयन by the jets और the second quarterback लिया overall.
he निभाई कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल at the University of दक्षिणी California ( USC ).
सांचेज़ grew up in a well-disciplined और एथलेटिक family.
in the आठवीं grade, he began to play फ़ुटबॉल और सीख the intricacies of the quarterback position, training साथ उसके पिता, उपनाम.
a well-regarded prospect, Sanchez committed to दक्षिणी California following उसके कामयाब high स्कूल करियर in which he led उसके टोली to a चैंपियनशिप शीर्षक during his फाइनल ऋतु.
at USC, Sanchez was relegated as the बैकअप क्वार्टरबैक दौरान उसके पहला तीन सालो हालांकि he रोज़ to prominence due to उसके ब्रैड appearances on the फ़ील्ड in 2007 due to चोटों suffered by starting क्वार्टरबैक John दाउद Booty.
Sanchez भी became popular within the जातियाँ due to his Mexican-American विरासत.
Named the प्रारंभ in 2008, सांचेज़ led यूएससी to a 12–1 रिकार्ड और won the Rose Bowl विरूद्ध Penn राज्य लिये जिससे Sanchez was awarded the Most Valuable खिलाड़ी award for his प्रदर्शन on offense.
हालांकि many माना him too inexperienced, Sanchez announced उसके इरादे to enter the 2009 NFL Draft.
he थी selected by the Jets after they traded up with the क्लीवलैंड भूरा, और थी नामित the starting quarterback prior to the प्रारंभ of the ऋतु.
Despite a subpar प्रदर्शन, सांचेज़ led the jets to the afc Championship खेल, a खोने प्रयत्न to the इंडियानापोलिस Colts, becoming the fourth rookie क्वार्टरबैक in एनएफएल history to जीत his पहला playoff खेल and the second to जीत two playoff games.
in his दूसरी season, सांचेज़ जारी to develop and led the Jets to the playoffs और the team 's दूसरी लगातार afc Championship Game where they narrowly lost to the Pittsburgh स्टीलर्स, 24–19.
साथ the win over the New England देशप्रेमी the week prior, सांचेज़ tied चार अन्य quarterbacks लिये the second सबसे post-season road victories by a क्वार्टरबैक in NFL इतिहास.
in leading the Jets to दो लगातार सम्मेलन championships, सांचेज़ joined क्वार्टरबैक बेन Roethlisberger as the तभी दो quarterbacks in एनएफएल history to पहुँचें the conference चैंपियनशिप in उनके first two seasons in the लीग.
the next दो seasons होता be a स्लोप लिये दोनो the टोली और सांचेज़ as they failed to पहुँचें the playoffs.
Fans और media आलोचकों called for a struggling सांचेज़ to be benched.
he आखिरकार थी replaced towards the समाप्त of the 2012 season साथ ग्रेग McElroy.
पॉल एवेरी ( April 2, 1934December 10, 2000 ) थी an American police रिपोर्टर, best ज्ञात for उसके कहानियां on the infamous serial कातिल known as the Zodiac, and later लिये उसके work on the पेट्रीसिया Hearst अपहरण.
a छोटी submersible ac sump pump साथ a गार्डन hose कनेक्टर
a sump पंप is a पंप प्रयुक्त to remove water that has संचित in a जल collecting sump basin, commonly found in the तहखाने of homes.
The water may enter via the घेरा नालों of a basement waterproofing प्रणाली, funneling into the जलाशय or क्युकी of rain or natural ground जल, if the तहखाने is नीचे the जल table स्तर.
sump पंपों हैं प्रयुक्त जहाँ basement flooding happens regularly and to उपाय dampness जहाँ the जल table is ऊपर the न्यास of a home.
sump पंपों भेजें water दूर from a हाउस to कोई place जहाँ it is no longer problematic, such as a नगरपालिका तूफ़ान drain or a dry खूब.
पंपों may discharge to the sanitary sewer in older संस्थापना.
एकबार considered acceptable, this अभ्यास may अभी violate the plumbing कोड or नगरपालिका bylaws, क्युकी it can overwhelm the municipal मलजल treatment प्रणाली.
Municipalities urge homeowners to डिस्कनेक्ट और reroute sump पंप निर्वहन दूर इससे sanitary sewers.
Fines may be imposed for noncompliance.
अनेक homeowners have inherited उनके sump pump configurations and do नहीं एहसास कि the pump discharges to the sewer.
if the निर्वहन is fed to a laundry डूबना in the तहखाने, it 's संभावित going to the सीवर.
प्रायः hardwired into a home 's विद्युत प्रणाली, sump पंपों may have a battery backup.
the घर 's pressurized जल सप्लाई powers कुछ पंपों, eliminating the need लिये विद्युत at the व्यय of using potable जल, potentially बनाना उन्हें अधिक expensive to operate than विद्युत पंपों and creating an additional जल disposal problem.
चूंकि a sump जलाशय may अतिप्रवाह if नहीं constantly उत्तेजित, a बैकअप प्रणाली is महत्वपूर्ण for मामले जब the प्रमुख शक्ति is out लिये prolonged अवधि of time, as during a कठोर तूफ़ान.
वहीँ हैं generally दो प्रकार of sump पंपों — pedestal and submersible.
The pedestal pump 's मोटर is mounted above the sump, जहाँ it is more easily सर्विस, लकिन is भी अधिक conspicuous.
the pump impeller is चलित by a long, लंबवत एक्सटेंशन शाफ्ट और the impeller is in a स्क्रॉल आवास in the base of the पंप.
The submersible pump is entirely आरोहित inside the sump, और is specially sealed to prevent electrical छोटी circuits.
sump पंप प्रणालियों हैं भी utilized in industrial और commercial अनुप्रयोग to control जल तालिका -सुनानाd समस्याएं in surface soil.
an आर्टेसियन aquifer or आवधिक high जल तालिका हालात can cause the मैदान to become अस्थिर due to जल संतृप्त.
as long as the पंप functions, the सतह मृदा will remain stable.
ये sumps हैं typically ten feet in depth or अधिक ; lined साथ corrugated metal पाइप that contains perforations or नाली holes throughout.
They may शामिल electronic control प्रणालियों with विज़ुअल और audible सचेतक and are usually covered to prevent debris and पशु from गिरना in.
bleeding कान्सास, खूनी Kansas or the Border युद्ध, थी a series of हिंसक political confrontations involving anti-slavery free-staters and pro-slavery `` Border ruffian `` तत्व, that took प्लेस in the कान्सास Territory और the neighboring towns of मिसौरी between 1854 और 1861.
At the दिल of the conflict was the question of whether कान्सास would डालें the Union as a फ़्री state or स्लेव राज्य.
as ऐसे, Bleeding Kansas was a प्रॉक्सी युद्ध between northerners और Southerners over the समस्या of slavery in the United राज्य.
the term `` Bleeding Kansas '' थी coined by होरेस greeley of the नई York Tribune ; the events it encompasses सीधे presaged the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध.
कॉंग्रेस had long struggled to संतुलन the interests of pro-slavery forces और anti-slavery शक्तियां.
The events बाद known as bleeding Kansas were नियत into गति by the Kansas–Nebraska Act of 1854, जिससे nullified the मिसौरी सुलह और बजाय implemented the concept of लोकप्रिय sovereignty.
an ostensibly लोकतांत्रिक विचार, popular प्रभुता stated कि the निवासियों of each territory or state चाहिए decide whether it would be a free or स्लेव राज्य ; however, this resulted in immigration en masse to Kansas by activists इससे both sides.
at एक पाइंट, कान्सास था two पृथक सरकारें, प्रत्येक साथ इसके own संविधान, हालांकि तभी एक was federally पहचाना.
on जनवरी 29, 1861, कान्सास was admitted to the Union as a free राज्य, कम than three months पहले the बैटल of Fort sumter जिससे began the सिविल युद्ध.
बेंजीन is an सशुल्क रासायनिक यौगिक साथ the आणविक सूत्र c6 H|Hydrogen|H6.
Its molecule is रचित of 6 carbon अणु joined in a ring, with 1 hydrogen अणु संलग्न to each carbon atom.
Because इसके अणुओं contain तभी कार्बन और हाइड्रोजन atoms, बेंजीन is classed as a हाइड्रोकार्बन.
बेंजीन is a natural constituent of crude आयल, और is एक of the सबसे मौलिक petrochemicals.
Benzene is an खुशबूदार हाइड्रोकार्बन and the second [ n ] - annulene ( [ 6 ] -annulene ), a चक्रीय hydrocarbon साथ a निरन्तर pi बंध.
It is sometimes abbreviated ph –h. Benzene is a colorless and highly flammable liquid साथ a मीठी महकते.
It is मुख्यतः प्रयुक्त as a precursor to भारी chemicals, such as ethylbenzene और cumene, which are produced on a billion किलोग्राम स्केल.
क्युकी it has a ऊँची ऑक्टेन क्रमांक, it is an important component of गैसोलीन, composing a few प्रतिशत of इसके द्रव्यमान.
सबसे non-industrial अनुप्रयोग have महरूम सीमित by benzene 's carcinogenicity.
giovanni virginio Schiaparelli ( ; 14 कूच 1835 – 4 July 1910 ) थी an इतालवी astronomer और विज्ञान historian.
वी homebrew refers to the reuse of Nintendo 's Wii game console to चलाएं software कि has नहीं महरूम प्राधिकृत by निन्टेंडो.
it achieves इस by defeating the वी 's नक़ल सुरक्षा और कोड हस्ताक्षर उपायों.
In more सामान्य terms, Wii Homebrew refers to the उपयोग of the Wii 's हार्डवेयर, accessories और तन्त्र लिये उद्देश्य outside those intended by the निर्माता.
असली प्रयत्न केन्द्रित on using the Wii Remote as a इंगित device on अन्य operating प्रणालियों, or कार्यशील web-based games in the built-in वेब ब्राउजर.
Subsequent developments in खेल कारनामे, ऐसे as the `` गोधूलि hack ``, `` Bannerbomb '' और इसके later अवतार `` letterbomb '', `` तोड़ Stack '', `` इंडियाना pwns '', `` Yu-Gi-OWNED '', `` bathaxx '', और `` वापसी of the jodi '', बना installing the `` homebrew Channel `` possible.
हैडली ( सही ) discussing the 2006 israel-lebanon संकट with बुश और राइस.
स्टीफन जॉन हैडली ( born February 13, 1947 ) was the 21st u.S. सहायक to the अध्यक्ष लिये National Security अफेयर्स ( commonly referred as नेशनल सुरक्षा Advisor ), serving अंतर्गत President जार्ज W. बुश.
लो एकसमान growing plants and दे उर्वरक to हाफ of उन्हें.
if there are मतभेद between the निषेचित संयंत्र group and the unfertilized `` कंट्रोल '' समूह, ये differences may be due to the उर्वरक.
A scientific कंट्रोल is an प्रयोग or अवलोकन designed to minimize the effects of परिवर्तनीय अन्य than the single स्वतंत्र variable.
This increases the विश्वसनीयता of the परिणाम, often through a comparison between कंट्रोल measurements और the अन्य माप.
वैज्ञानिक controls हैं a part of the scientific विधि.
For उदाहरण, दौरान ड्रग testing, scientists होगा कोशिश to कंट्रोल दो groups to रखना them as identical as possible, तब allow एक group to कोशिश the ड्रग.
another उदाहरण might be testing संयंत्र fertilizer by giving it to only हाफ the पौधे in a गार्डन : the पौधे that receive no उर्वरक हैं the control समूह, क्युकी वे establish the बेसलाइन स्तर of growth कि the fertilizer-treated पौधे होगा be compared against.
बगैर a कंट्रोल समूह, the प्रयोग can not determine whether the fertilizer-treated plants grow अधिक than वे होता have if untreated.
Ideally, सब परिवर्तनीय in an experiment होगा be controlled ( accounted लिये by the कंट्रोल measurements ) and none होगा be uncontrolled.
In such an प्रयोग, if सब the नियंत्रण कार्य as अपेक्षित, it is संभावित to conclude that the प्रयोग is working as intended और that the परिणाम of the experiment हैं due to the effect of the परिवर्तनीय being tested.
कि is, वैज्ञानिक नियंत्रण allow an investigator to make a अर्जी जैसे `` Two परिस्थितियों यहूद identical until factor x occurred.
Since फ़ैक्टर X is the only difference between the दो परिस्थितियों, the new निष्कर्ष was caused by फ़ैक्टर x. ''
< < Chemical elements आंकड़ा सन्दर्भ
जॉन एडम्स ( October 30, 1735 ( o.s. अक्तूबर 19, 1735 ) – जुलाई 4, 1826 ) was the second अध्यक्ष of the United States ( 1797–1801 ), having पहले परोसा as the first vice अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य.
An अमरीकी founding Father, he थी a statesman, diplomat, और a leading advocate of अमरीकी स्वतंत्रता इससे Great Britain.
खूब शिक्षित, he थी an Enlightenment political theorist who प्रचारित republicanism और लिखा prolifically about उसके प्रायः seminal विचार, both in प्रकाशित works and in letters to his बीवी और कुंजी adviser अबीगैल as well as to other founding Fathers.
एडम्स आए to prominence in the जल्दी stages of the अमरीकी क्रान्ति.
A lawyer और पब्लिक figure in बोस्टन, as a प्रतिनिधि इससे मैसाचुसेट्स to the महाद्वीपीय Congress, he निभाई a leading भूमिका in persuading कॉंग्रेस to घोषित स्वतंत्रता.
he assisted थामस जेफरसन in drafting the Declaration of Independence in 1776, और थी इसके प्राथमिक एडवोकेट in the कॉंग्रेस.
Later, as a राजनयिक in यूरोपीय, he helped negotiate the eventual सलाम सन्धि साथ Great Britain, और was responsible लिये obtaining vital governmental लोन from Amsterdam बैंकर्स.
A राजनैतिक theorist and इतिहासकार, एडम्स largely wrote the Massachusetts Constitution in 1780, which साथ साथ उसके earlier विचार on सरकारी, बहकावे American राजनैतिक विचार.
One of उसके महानतम roles थी as a न्यायधीश of character : in 1775, he मनोनीत जार्ज वॉशिंगटन to be commander-in-chief, और 25 years बाद nominated John मार्शल to be Chief Justice of the संयुक्त राज्य.
Adams ' revolutionary credentials secured उसे दो terms as जार्ज Washington 's vice अध्यक्ष and उसके own चुनाव in 1796 as the दूसरी president.
दौरान his एक term, he encountered ferocious हमले by the jeffersonian republicans, as खूब as the प्रबल faction in his अपना Federalist Party led by उसके bitter दुश्मन सिकंदर हैमिल्टन.
एडम्स signed the विवादास्पद Alien and राजद्रोह Acts, और built up the फौज और नेवी especially in the फेस of an undeclared नवल युद्ध ( पुकारा the `` Quasi-War `` ) साथ फ़्रांस, 1798–1800.
The प्रमुख accomplishment of his presidency थी his शांतिपूर्ण resolution of the विरोध in the फेस of हैमिल्टन 's विपक्ष.
in 1800, एडम्स थी defeated for re-election by Thomas जेफरसन और रिटायर्ड to मैसाचुसेट्स.
He later resumed his friendship with जेफरसन.
he and उसके wife, अबीगैल एडम्स, founded an संपन्नता परिवार line of राजनेता, राजनयिकों, और इतिहासकारों अभी referred to as the एडम्स political परिवार.
एडम्स थी the पिता of John Quincy एडम्स, the छठे अध्यक्ष of the United States.
उसके achievements have received greater मान्यता in modern times, हालांकि his योगदान were नहीं initially as मनाये as those of अन्य Founders.
एडम्स थी the पहला U.S. अध्यक्ष to reside in the भवन that आखिरकार became ज्ञात as the श्वेत हाउस.
a Watt भाप engine.
the steam इंजन, fuelled primarily by कोयले, propelled the औद्योगिक Revolution in Great ब्रिटेन और the world.
the Industrial क्रान्ति थी the परिवर्तन to नई manufacturing प्रक्रियाओं that occurred in the period इससे परिचय 1760 to some समय between 1820 and 1840.
इस परिवर्तन included going from हाथ production methods to मशीने, नई रासायनिक निर्माण और आयरन उत्पादन प्रक्रियाओं, improved दक्षता of जल शक्ति, the increasing use of steam शक्ति and विकास of यंत्र tools.
The परिवर्तन भी शामिल the change इससे wood और other bio-fuels to कोयले.
the औद्योगिक revolution began in Britain and भीतर a few दशकों spread to पश्चिमी यूरोपीय and the United राज्य.
the Industrial क्रान्ति marks a प्रमुख turning पाइंट in इतिहास ; लगभग प्रत्येक aspect of daily जीवन थी बहकावे in कुछ way.
सबसे notably, औसत आय और जनसांख्यिकी began to प्रदर्शनी unprecedented sustained विकास.
in the शब्द of Nobel Prize विजेता रॉबर्ट E. लुकास, Jr., `` लिये the first समय in इतिहास, the living standards of the masses of ordinary लोगों have begun to undergo sustained विकास... nothing remotely जैसे this आर्थिक बर्ताव is उल्लेखित by the classical अर्थशास्त्रियों, even as a theoretical सम्भावना. ''
William घंटी स्कॉट आयरन और Coal, 1855-60
The period of समय covered by the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति varies साथ अलग इतिहासकारों.
eric hobsbawm आयोजित that it 'broke आउट ' in Britain in the 1780s and थी not fully felt जबतक the 1830s or 1840s, जबकि T. S. एश्टन आयोजित कि it occurred roughly between 1760 और 1830.
कुछ 20th-century historians such as जॉन clapham और Nicholas Crafts have argued कि the process of आर्थिक and सोशल बदलें took place धीरे और the पद क्रान्ति is a misnomer.
This is स्टिल a विषय of बहस among historians.
जीडीपी per capita थी broadly stable पहले the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति and the emergence of the modern पूंजीवादी economy.
the औद्योगिक Revolution began an era of per-capita economic विकास in पूंजीवादी economies.
आर्थिक historians are in अनुबंध कि the onset of the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति is the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण event in the इतिहास of मानवता चूंकि the domestication of पशु and plants.
the पहला Industrial क्रान्ति evolved into the Second औद्योगिक Revolution in the transition years between 1840 और 1870, जब technological और आर्थिक प्रगति gained momentum साथ the increasing अपनाना of steam-powered boats, जहाजों और रेल, the विशाल स्केल manufacture of machine tools and the increasing use of steam संचालित factories.
Juliet AnnMarie huddy ( born September 27, 1969 ), is an American टेलीविज़न न्यूज रिपोर्टर, फिलहाल appearing on Fox न्यूज चैनल.
इस list ranks U.S. शहरों by जमीन area ( not including bodies of water ).
कुल क्षेत्रों ( including water ) हैं also given, but note कि, जब क्रमित by total area, a क्रमांक of तटीय cities appear disproportionately `` larger ''.
सैन Francisco is an extreme example ; जल makes up nearly 80 % of इसके कुल area of 232 वर्गाकार मील ( 601 km2 ).
नोट भी कि in अनेक cases a नगर may be geographically large primarily क्युकी इसके नगरपालिका government has merged साथ the government of the surrounding काउंटी.
in some cases the काउंटी no longer exists, while in others the arrangement रै formed a संचित city–county ( or city- borough in अलास्का, or city- parish in Louisiana ).
These हैं दिखाया in bold in the list नीचे ( लकिन नहीं सब उदाहरण may be indicated ).
** These are independent शहरों, meaning वे हैं नहीं a भाग of any काउंटी.
the विशाल intestine ( or bowel, colon ) is the पिछला भाग of the digestive system in vertebrate animals.
इसके function is to absorb water इससे the remaining indigestible खाना पदार्थ, और तब to pass व्यर्थ बर्बाद सामग्री इससे the देह.
This आलेख is primarily परिचय the इंसान gut, हालांकि the information about इसके प्रक्रियाओं are directly applicable to सबसे mammals.
the विशाल intestine consists of the cecum, rectum and anal canal.
It starts in the सही iliac region of the pelvis, बस at or नीचे the सही waist, जहाँ it is joined to the नीचे समाप्त of the small आंत.
From यहाँ it continues up the उदर, तब आरपार the चौडाई of the abdominal गुहा, और तब it turns down, continuing to इसके endpoint at the anus.
the विशाल intestine is परिचय long, जिससे is परिचय one-fifth of the पूरे लंबाई of the intestinal कनाल.
in terminologia Anatomica the large intestine शामिल the cecum, कोलन, मलाशय, and गुदा कनाल.
However, कुछ sources exclude the anal canal.
The ग्रीन Bay पैकर्स हैं an American football टोली आधारित in Green Bay, विस्कॉन्सिन.
They हैं सदस्यों of the उत्तर Division of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल Conference ( NFC ) in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League ( NFL ).
Green खाड़ी is the third-oldest franchise in the NFL, having been organized और playing in 1919.
the पैकर्स हैं the only non-profit, community-owned major लीग पेशेवर sports टोली in the United States.
The Packers हैं the last vestige of `` small कस्बा टीमों '' कि were once common in the NFL दौरान the 1920s और 1930s.
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` घुंघराले '' lambeau ( hence the name lambeau फ़ील्ड on जिससे the टोली plays ) और जार्ज Whitney calhoun, the ग्रीन Bay पैकर्स can ट्रेस their lineage to other semi-professional टीमों in ग्रीन खाड़ी डेटिंग back to 1896.
In 1919 और 1920 the Packers competed as a semi-professional football team against clubs इससे around विस्कॉन्सिन और the मिडवेस्ट.
वे joined the अमरीकी पेशेवर Football संघ ( apfa ) in 1921, the forerunner to कया is known today as the National फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( NFL ).
हालांकि Green खाड़ी is the last NFL `` छोटी कस्बा '' टोली, इसके local fan आधार and मीडिया extends into nearby मिल्वौकी ; the team भी played selected घर games there between 1933 और 1994.
The Green खाड़ी पैकर्स have won 13 लीग championships ( अधिक than कोई अन्य team in the एनएफएल ), including नौ एनएफएल championships prior to the सुपर Bowl era और चार सुपर Bowl victories —in 1967 ( सुपर Bowl i ), 1968 ( सुपर Bowl ii ), 1997 ( सुपर कटोरी XXXI ) और 2011 ( सुपर Bowl xlv ).
the Packers have long-standing, bitter rivalries साथ उनके nfc उत्तर ( formerly the NFC सेंट्रल ) opponents, the शिकागो bears, मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स and the डेट्रॉयट शेर.
the bears-packers rivalry is एक of the oldest rivalries in एनएफएल history, dating वापस to 1921.
the सैन Fernando Valley ( locally ज्ञात as `` the घाटी '' ) is an urbanized घाटी स्तिथ in the लॉस Angeles metropolitan क्षेत्रफल of दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया, संयुक्त राज्य, पारिभाषित by the mountains of the Transverse सीमाएँ घूमना it.
घर to 1.76 लाख people, it lies उत्तर of the larger और अधिक populous Los Angeles जलाशय.
nearly two तिहाई of the Valley 's जमीन area is part of the City of लॉस Angeles.
The other incorporated cities in the घाटी हैं ग्लेनडेल, Burbank, San फर्नांडो, Hidden पहाड़ियाँ and Calabasas.
San फर्नांडो घाटी, Los एंजिल्स
the exterior of the वर्तमान संसार of coca-cola at pemberton प्लेस.
The संसार of coca-cola, is a स्थाई exhibition featuring the इतिहास of the Coca-Cola Company.
Its well-known विज्ञापन as well as a मेजबान of entertainment क्षेत्रों और आकर्षण, and is स्तिथ in अटलांटा, जॉर्जिया ( जहाँ the कम्पनी 's मुख्यालय हैं स्तिथ ) at Pemberton Place ( named in सम्मान of John pemberton, the आविष्कारक of coca-cola ).
as part of जॉर्जिया 's museums.
the जटिल स्तिथ आरपार बेकर गली इससे centennial ओलम्पिक Park कि is home to the Georgia एक्वेरियम और भविष्य बीच लिये Civil & इंसान Rights.
It खोली to the पब्लिक on may 24, 2007, relocating इससे और replacing the original प्रदर्शनी.
Pretties is a 2005 science fiction novel और the second book of the Uglies Trilogy लिखा by स्कॉट Westerfeld.
it is set in a future dystopian world in which everyone is turned `` pretty '' by चरम cosmetic surgery upon reaching age 16.
it tells the story of किशोरावस्था Tally youngblood जो rebels विरूद्ध society 's enforced conformity.
Susan leigh vaughan Smith ( born सितंबर 26, 1971 ) is an अमरीकी स्त्री sentenced to जीवन in prison for murdering उसके children.
born in Union, दक्षिण कैरोलिना, and a पूर्व छात्र of the विश्वविद्यालयों of दक्षिण कैरोलिना संघ, वो थी convicted on जुलाई 22, 1995 लिये murdering उसके दो बेटे, 3-year-old माइकल Daniel स्मिथ, born October 10, 1991, and 14-month-old सिकंदर टायलर स्मिथ, born August 5, 1993.
the मामला gained worldwide ध्यान shortly बाद it विकसित, due to her claiming कि a black man stole her car और kidnapped उसके बेटे.
वो बाद claimed कि वो suffered इससे दिमागी health issues that impaired उसके निर्णय.
According to the दक्षिण Carolina विभाग of corrections, Smith will be eligible for पैरोल on November 4, 2024, बाद सेवारत a न्यूनतम of तीस सालो.
वो is incarcerated at South कैरोलिना 's leath Correctional Institution, near greenwood.
Mount mckinley ( also ज्ञात as Denali लिया इससे the इनुइट Koyukon athabaskan भाषा meaning `` The ग्रेट One '' ) is the उच्चतम पहाड़ peak in the United राज्य and in उत्तर America साथ a summit elevation of ऊपर समुद्र स्तर.
at कुछ, the आधार to peak वृद्धि is माना the largest of any पहाड़ situated entirely ऊपर sea स्तर.
measured by topographic prominence, it is the तीसरा सबसे prominent peak after माउंट एवरेस्ट and अकोंकागुआ.
स्तिथ in the अलास्का दायरा in the आंतरिक of US state of Alaska, it is the centerpiece of Denali नेशनल पार्क और बचाना.
The पहला यूरोपीय to दस्तावेज़ sighting the पहाड़ थी जार्ज Vancouver in 1794.
In 1903, James wickersham अंकित the पहला attempt at climbing McKinley which was unsuccessful.
In 1906, Frederick कुक claimed the पहला ascent जिससे was बाद सिद्ध to be गलत.
The first verifiable ascent to mckinley 's summit थी हासिल on जून 7, 1913 by चढना Hudson stuck, हैरी karstens, वाल्टर हार्पर, और रॉबर्ट टैटम.
in 1951, Bradford washburn pioneered the West buttress रूट considered to be the safest और easiest रूट and इसलिए the most लोकप्रिय currently in उपयोग.
the होंडा S600 is an automobile manufactured by होंडा.
It थी शुभारम्भ in कूच 1964.
उपलब्धियाँ as a roadster – bearing दमदार resemblance to the Honda s500 – and as a fastback coupé – introduced in कूच 1965 – the s600 थी the पहला होंडा उपलब्धियाँ in दो trim स्तर.
दौरान इसके उत्पादन चलाएं up to 1966, the मॉडल स्टाइलिंग होता remain pretty much the वही, with the most notable changes coming to the सामने grille, बम्पर, and headlights.
Powered by a dohc, water-cooled, four-cylinder इनलाइन इंजन with four carburetors, the इंजन क्षमता थी increased to 606 cc इससे the s500 's 531 cc.
The engine उत्पादित at 8,500 आरपीएम और था a top speed of.
साथ the convertible weighing in at mere, the extra sheet metal of the coupe तभी added to the overall वज़न.
Suspension थी स्वतंत्र with sealed roller कड़ी ड्राइव to प्रत्येक rear व्हील.
The S600 was the पहला mass marketed होंडा car.
पहला offered तभी in right-hand ड्राइव, it जल्द became उपलब्धियाँ in left-hand ड्राइव to appeal to निर्यात markets.
वहीँ यहूद a few pre-production s500s manufactured in left हाथ drive, दो or तीन भी being दिखाया in कुछ जल्दी sales विवरणिका.
दोनो the S600 roadster and coupé यहूद उपलब्धियाँ in मानक trim और a खास, upgraded पैकेज called the sm600 which included, among अन्य वस्तुएं, खास पेंट colors, exclusive badging, a मानक radio और speaker, a खास एंटीना in the यात्री side sun छज्जा, मानक reversing lights, a मानक cigarette lighter, a मानक हीटर, बेहतर cushioned seats, and a detachable seat track लिये quick हटाना of the यात्री सीट.
Honda built 3,912 roadsters in 1964, साथ उत्पादन चढ़ाई to 7,261 convertibles और 1,519 coupes in 1965.
Production dropped off in 1966 ( as they यहूद shifting to the s800 ) with तभी 111 roadsters and 281 coupes, giving tallies of 11,284 convertibles और 1,800 coupes लिये the 3 year स्पैन.
Everybody hates क्रिस is an अमरीकी television काल sitcom that depicts the teenage अनुभवों of comedian क्रिस चट्टान ( who is भी the narrator ) while growing up in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of ब्रुकलीन, New York.
The दिखाएँ is set between 1983 और 1987 ; however, चट्टान खुद थी a किशोरावस्था between 1978 and 1983.
Rock grew up साथ a boy named Kenny montero, जिसको he has प्रायः referred to as the प्रेरणा for a lot of the episodes.
in many interviews, चट्टान has described केनी as the कारण he मिला into comedy in the पहला प्लेस.
the show 's title parodies the CBS sitcom everybody loves रेमंड.
चट्टान stated : `` Everybody loves Raymond but everybody hates क्रिस ! ``.
The दिखाएँ 's सीसे actors are टायलर जेम्स विलियम्स, Terry क्रू, Tichina अर्नाल्ड, tequan रिचमंड, imani हकीम, और विंसेंट martella.
In Fall 2008, the the cw स्थानांतरित everybody hates क्रिस और the Game to the Friday night मौत स्लॉट.
The चौथी season of the श्रेणी premiered शुक्रवार, October 3, 2008, at 8:00PM eastern/7:00pm Central.
On May 21, 2009, the CW घोषित that it था रद्द Everybody Hates Chris.
Prior to this, executive निर्माता Chris चट्टान घोषित कि the end of ऋतु 4 matched up with his अपना past—dropping आउट of high स्कूल to become a comedian—and कि it was समय to end the दिखाएँ.
pleural effusion is excess द्रव that accumulates between the two pleural परतों, the fluid-filled space कि surrounds the फेफड़े.
excessive amounts of such द्रव can impair श्वास by limiting the विस्तार of the lungs दौरान ventilation.
बियोवुल्फ़ ( ; in Old अंग्रेज़ी or ) is the conventional शीर्षक of an बूढ़ा English वीर epic कविता consisting of 3182 alliterative long लाइनों, नियत in Scandinavia, commonly cited as एक of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण works of anglo-saxon साहित्य.
It survives in a single पाण्डुलिपि ज्ञात as the Nowell codex.
इसके composition by an बेनाम anglo-saxon poet is दिनाँक between the 8th और the जल्दी 11th century.
in 1731, the पाण्डुलिपि was badly क्षतिग्रस्त by a fire कि swept through a भवन आवास a संग्रहण of मध्यकालीन manuscripts समवेत by Sir Robert Bruce Cotton.
the कविता गिरी into obscurity लिये दशकों, and its अस्तित्व did नहीं become widely ज्ञात again जबतक it was मुद्रित in 1815 in an संस्करण prepared by the Icelandic-Danish विद्वान grímur jónsson Thorkelin.
In the कविता, बियोवुल्फ़, a hero of the Geats in scandinavia, आता to the help of hroðgar, the king of the Danes, whose mead हॉल ( in Heorot ) रै been अंतर्गत आक्रमण by a monster ज्ञात as grendel.
बाद बियोवुल्फ़ जानबूझ उसे, Grendel 's mother attacks the hall और is तब also defeated.
Victorious, बियोवुल्फ़ goes घर to geatland in Sweden और later becomes king of the geats.
After a काल of fifty सालो has passed, बियोवुल्फ़ defeats a ड्रैगन, but is fatally wounded in the बैटल.
बाद उसके death, his सेवकों दफनाने उसे in a tumulus, a दफ़न mound, in Geatland.
Shem हैम और japheth by James Tissot 1904.
shem ( ; Sēm ; अरबी : sām ; Ge'ez : ሴም, sēm ; `` renown ; समृद्धि ; नाम '' ) थी one of the बेटे of Noah in the Hebrew Bible as खूब as in Islamic literature.
he is सबसे popularly regarded as the ज्येष्ठ son, though कुछ traditions लिहाज़ him as the दूसरी son.
Genesis 10:21 refers to relative आयु of Shem और his brother Japheth, लकिन साथ sufficient ambiguity to have yielded different अनुवाद.
the श्लोक is अनूदित in the kjv as `` Unto Shem भी, the father of सब the children of eber, the bhai of japheth the elder, even to उसे were children born. ``.
However, the New American मानक बाइबल देता, `` भी to shem, the पिता of सब the children of eber, और the older bhai of japheth, children were born. ''
Genesis 11:10 रिकॉर्ड कि shem थी still 100 सालो बूढ़ा at the birth of arphaxad, ( लकिन nearly 101 - देखिए Chronology नोट, ) दो सालो बाद the flood, बनाना उसे मुश्किल 99 at the समय the flood began ; और कि he जिया लिये another 500 सालो बाद this, बनाना his आयु at death 600 सालो.
the children of Shem यहूद ईलम, asshur, arphaxad, lud, और aram, in जोड to बेटियां.
Abraham, the patriarch of the Hebrews और arabs, थी एक of the descendants of arphaxad.
इस्लामी literature describes shem as एक of the believing बेटे of नूह.
Some स्त्रोत भी पहचानो shem as a prophet in his own right और कि he थी the अगला prophet बाद उसके पिता.
in एक मुस्लिम लेजेंड, shem थी one of the लोगों that God बना यीशु उठाएगा as a चिह्न to the children of Israel.
the 1st सदी इतिहासकार Flavius josephus, among अनेक अन्य, recounted the परंपरा कि ये पाँच बेटे यहूद the progenitors of the nations of ईलम, Assyria, chaldea, लीडिया, and सीरियाई, respectively.
सामीती is still a commonly used पद for the Semitic languages, as a उपसमुच्चय of the afro-asiatic languages, denoting the आम linguistic heritage of Arabic, Aramaic, अक्कादी, ethiopic, Hebrew and Phoenician भाषाएं.
According to कुछ यहूदी traditions ( e.g., B. talmud nedarim 32b ; Genesis rabbah 46:7 ; Genesis rabbah 56:10 ; leviticus Rabbah 25:6 ; Numbers rabbah 4:8. ), shem is believed to have been Melchizedek, किंग of सलेम whom अब्राहम is recorded to have met after the battle of the चार किंग्स.
In a few of the अनेक extra-biblical sources that describe उसे, shem is भी credited साथ killing nimrod, बेटे of Cush.
Shem is उल्लेखित in उत्पत्ति 5:32, 6:10 ; 7:13 ; 9:18,23,26-27 ; 10 ; 11:10 ; भी in 1 Chronicles 1:4.
भौगोलिक identifications of flavius josephus, c. 100 ad ; japheth 's sons दिखाया in रेड, Ham 's बेटे in ब्लू, shem 's बेटे in green.
go पापा or go Daddy Group inc. is a privately आयोजित कम्पनी that is primarily an अंतरजाल domain registrar and web होस्टिंग कम्पनी.
go Daddy समूह Inc. दायर लिये an ipo in 2006, but later रद्द it, due to `` मार्केट uncertainties ''.
In addition to डोमेन पंजीकरण and होस्टिंग go Daddy भी बिकता e-business सम्बन्धित तन्त्र and services.
On जून 24, 2011, the Wall गली Journal reported that private-equity firms केकेआर और चांदी Lake Partners, साथ साथ a तीसरा निवेशकों, were nearing a सौदे to ख़रीदे the company for between $ 2–2.5 billion.
On July 1, 2011 go Daddy पुष्टि कि केकेआर, Silver झील Partners and प्रौद्योगिकी Crossover ventures था बंद the सौदे.
Although the खरीदें दाम was not officially घोषित it was reported to be $ 2.25 billion, for 65 % of the कम्पनी.
, Bob पार्सन्स had ceded the सीईओ भूमिका of go पापा to वारेन Adelman, who था महरूम with the कम्पनी for परिचय 10 सालो.
the Andorran coat of arms at the andorran पार्लियामेंट.
अंडोरा ( ;, ), officially the Principality of अंडोरा ( ), भी called the principality of the घाटियों of Andorra, ( ), is a landlocked microstate in Southwestern यूरोपीय, located in the पूर्वी Pyrenees kyu और bordered by स्पेन और फ़्रांस.
it is the छठे smallest स्वदेश in यूरोपीय, having an क्षेत्रफल of and an estimated जनसांख्यिकी of 85,000 in 2012.
इसके capital, Andorra la वेला, is the highest पूंजी नगर in Europe, at an उन्नयन of above समुद्र level.
the आधिकारिक language is कैटलन, although स्पेनी, Portuguese, and French are भी commonly बोला.
Created under a चार्टर in 988, the present principality was formed in 1278.
it is known as a principality as it is a साम्राज्य headed by दो co-princes – the बिशप of urgell and the अध्यक्ष of France.
Andorra is a prosperous country मुख्यतः क्युकी of इसके पर्यटन industry, जिससे services an अनुमानित 10.2 million visitors annually, and भी क्युकी of इसके status as a tax हेवन.
It is नहीं a सदस्य of the European संघ, लकिन the euro is the de facto करेंसी.
The लोगों of Andorra have the 4th उच्चतम इंसान जीवन expectancy in the संसार — 82 years at जनम.
the George वॉशिंगटन University ( GW, GWU, or जार्ज वॉशिंगटन ) is a comprehensive निजी, coeducational research विश्वविद्यालयों स्तिथ in वॉशिंगटन, d.C..
It पुरस्कार प्रमाणपत्र, Bachelor degrees, मास्टर्स डिग्री, and PhDs across several दर्जन disciplines.
the university थी chartered by an Act of Congress on फ़रवरी 9, 1821 as The Columbian College in the District of कोलंबिया.
किम्बर्ली Noel `` किम '' कार्दशियन ( born अक्तूबर 21, 1980 ) is an अमरीकी socialite, टेलीविज़न personality and occasional actress.
in 2007, वो gained notoriety as the subject of a sex टेप that subsequently resulted in a court awarding her $ 5 million ; बाद in कि वही year, वो और her परिवार rose to prominence with their E !
reality टेलीविज़न श्रेणी keeping up साथ the kardashians, and its subsequent spin-offs, सहित Kourtney और Kim Take New York और Kourtney and किम लो Miami.
in 2010, कार्दशियन was the highest-earning वास्तविकता star, साथ estimated earnings of $ 6 million.
साथ बहनों कोर्टनी और khloé, कार्दशियन co-owns the फ़ैशन बुटीक कड़ी d-a-s-h.
वो रै महरूम शामिल in the production of अनेक लाइनों of clothing and सुगंध.
in अगस्त 2011, कार्दशियन शादीशुदा बास्केट खिलाड़ी क्रिस humphries in a widely publicized रस्म.
That अक्तूबर, कार्दशियन दायर for तलाक following 72 दिनों of marriage.
the move garnered significant backlash इससे the मीडिया, जो labeled it a `` publicity स्टंट ''.
After 536 days, Kardashian and humphries reached an अघोषित settlement at the लॉस Angeles Superior Court, finalizing the तलाक in अप्रैल 2013.
Aerial view of Oahu with freeways and राजमार्गों, 3d computer-generated चित्र
fly-around दौरे of the द्वीप
Oahu ( ) or oahu, known as `` the महफ़िल प्लेस '', is the तीसरा largest of the हवाई आइलैंड्स और the most populous of the आइलैंड्स in the u.S. राज्य of हवाई.
The state पूंजी, होनोलूलू, is on oahu 's southeast coast.
Including छोटी close-in offshore islands such as Ford द्वीप and the islands in Kaneohe Bay और बंद the eastern ( windward ) coast, it रै a total land area of, बनाना it the 20th largest island in the United States.
in the महानतम आयाम, इस volcanic island is long और across.
The लंबाई of the shoreline is.
The द्वीप is the परिणाम of two पृथक shield ज्वालामुखी : waianae and koolau, साथ a व्यापक `` valley '' or काठी ( the सेंट्रल Oahu मैदान ) between उन्हें.
the highest पाइंट is Mt. ka'ala in the Waianae Range, उठती to ऊपर sea स्तर.
the base करेंसी of the United राज्य is the u.S. डालर, and is printed on बिल्स in denominations of $ 1, $ 2, $ 5, $ 10, $ 20, $ 50, और $ 100.
at one समय, however, u.S. करेंसी included पाँच larger denominations.
Notes in the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, and $ 10,000 यहूद मुद्रित लिये सामान्य उपयोग, और a $ 100,000 note was मुद्रित लिये certain आतंरिक transactions.
अंग्रेजों Honduras was a अंग्रेजों उपनिवेश in Central अमेरिका.
In 1981, the colony gained पूरा independence, और is अभी the independent स्वदेश of Belize.
First colonised by spaniards in the 17th सदी, the territory on the east coast of सेंट्रल America, दक्षिण of Mexico, became a अंग्रेजों crown उपनिवेश in 1862.
In 1964, it became a self-governing उपनिवेश.
बेलीज़ became fully स्वतंत्र from the संयुक्त किंगडम in 1981.
बेलीज़ थी the पिछला महाद्वीपीय कब्ज़ा of the संयुक्त किंगडम in the americas.
Spelt, भी known as dinkel गेहूं, or hulled wheat, is an ancient species of wheat from the पांचवां millennium bc.
Spelt थी an महत्वपूर्ण स्टेपल in भाग of यूरोपीय from the Bronze Age to मध्यकालीन टाइम्स ; it now survives as a relict क्रॉप in Central यूरोपीय और उत्तरी स्पेन and रै found a नई मार्केट as a स्वास्थ्य खाना.
spelt is sometimes माना a subspecies of the closely related प्रजाति आम गेहूं ( T. aestivum ), in which मामला its botanical नाम is माना to be triticum aestivum subsp. spelta.
it is a hexaploid गेहूं, which अर्थात् it has छह सेट of गुणसूत्रों.
शर्लक Holmes ( or ) is a fictional detective निर्मित by लेखक and चिकित्सक सर Arthur कोनन डोयल.
a london-based `` परामर्श जासूस '' whose abilities border on the fantastic, holmes is प्रसिद्ध for उसके astute logical तर्क, his ability to अपनाना लगभग कोई disguise, और उसके use of forensic science कौशल to solve difficult मामले.
Holmes, who पहला appeared in publication in 1887, थी प्रदर्शित in four novels and 56 short stories.
The first अनोखा, a पढ़ाई in स्कारलेट, appeared in Beeton 's क्रिसमस सालाना in 1887 और the दूसरी, The चिह्न of the Four, in lippincott 's Monthly Magazine in 1890.
the अक्षर grew tremendously in popularity with the first श्रेणी of छोटी कहानियां in the Strand पत्रिका, शुरूआत साथ a Scandal in Bohemia in 1891 ; further series of छोटी कहानियां and two novels प्रकाशित in serial रूप appeared between then and 1927.
the कहानियां कवर a period from around 1880 up to 1914.
All लकिन चार कहानियां हैं narrated by holmes 's dost और biographer, dr. जॉन H. वाटसन ; दो हैं narrated by holmes खुद ( `` the Blanched Soldier `` and `` The शेर 's माने `` ) और two अन्य हैं लिखा in the तीसरा person ( `` The Mazarin स्टोन `` and `` His Last धनुष `` ).
In दो कहानियां ( `` the musgrave Ritual `` और `` the ग्लोरिया स्कॉट `` ), holmes tells Watson the प्रमुख story इससे उसके memories, while वाटसन becomes the narrator of the frame स्टोरी.
The first और चौथी novels, a Study in स्कारलेट और the Valley of भय, प्रत्येक include a long interval of omniscient narration recounting events अनजान to either holmes or वाटसन.
the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of Representatives is एक of the two घरों of the संयुक्त States कॉंग्रेस ( a bicameral विधानमंडल ).
it is अक्सर referred to as the हाउस.
the अन्य हाउस is the सीनेट.
the संयोजन और शक्तियां of the हाउस हैं स्थापित in Article एक of the United States Constitution.
The प्रमुख शक्ति of the House is to pass federal विधान कि affects the entire country although इसके bills must भी be passed by the सीनेट and further सहमत to by the u.S. President पहले बनने विधि ( unless दोनो the House और सीनेट re-pass the legislation साथ a two-thirds बहुमत in प्रत्येक कक्ष ).
the हाउस has several exclusive powers : the power to initiate आय bills, to impeach officials, और to elect the U.S. अध्यक्ष in मामला there is no majority in the Electoral College.
Each u.S. राज्य is represented in the हाउस in proportion to इसके population but is हकदार to at तनिक एक प्रतिनिधि.
The सबसे populous state, California, फिलहाल रै 53 प्रतिनिधि.
The कुल क्रमांक of मतदान प्रतिनिधि is फिक्स्ड by विधि at 435.
Each प्रतिनिधि serves लिये a two-year पद.
the स्पीकर of the United States House of Representatives, who presides over the chamber, is elected by the members of the House, और is इसलिए traditionally the leader of the हाउस लोकतांत्रिक caucus or the House Republican सम्मेलन, whichever party has more मतदान सदस्यों.
the House meets in the south wing of the संयुक्त States Capitol.
jell-o is a brand नाम belonging to u.s.-based Kraft भोजन for a क्रमांक of gelatin desserts, सहित fruit gels, puddings and no-bake cream pies.
The brand 's लोकप्रियता रै led to it होने प्रयुक्त as a जेनेरिक term for जिलेटिन मिठाई आरपार the U.S. and कनाडा.
kennywood is an मनोरंजन park स्तिथ in West mifflin, Pennsylvania, a उपनगरीय of पिट्सबर्ग.
the park पहला खोली in 1898 as a `` ट्राली park '' आकर्षण at the समाप्त of the mellon परिवार 's monongahela गली रेल.
The पार्क थी खरीदा in 1906 by F. W. Henninger और एंड्रयू McSwigan and thus began the Kennywood Entertainment कम्पनी that रै remained a closely आयोजित परिवार कारोबार लिये over 100 सालो.
इस traditional amusement park still रै structures and rides dating back to इसके opening and the जल्दी 1900s.
साथ with Rye playland पार्क, it is एक of only two amusement parks सूचीबद्ध in the नेशनल पंजीकरण of ऐतिहासिक Places.
Kennywood is owned by kennywood Entertainment कम्पनी, जिससे until दिसम्बर 2007 थी a closely held परिवार कारोबार owned by the Henninger और mcswigan families.
kennywood Entertainment is now संचालित by California-based राजमहल entertainment, a subsidiary of Parques Reunidos, an अंतरराष्ट्रीय मनोरंजन park company आधारित in मैड्रिड, स्पेन.
Parque Reunidos is in turn a subsidiary of Candover निवेश, an निवेश fund based in the uk.
a सोशल सुरक्षा कार्ड issued by the रेलरोड रिटायरमेंट फलक in 1943 to a अभी मृतक person.
In the United राज्य, a सोशल Security क्रमांक ( ssn ) is a nine-digit क्रमांक issued to u.S. नागरिकों, permanent residents, और temporary ( working ) निवासियों under खण्ड 205 ( c ) ( 2 ) of the सोशल Security अधिनियम, संहिताबद्ध as.
the क्रमांक is जारी to an individual by the Social सुरक्षा Administration, an independent agency of the संयुक्त States सरकारी.
इसके primary purpose is to track individuals लिये Social सुरक्षा उद्देश्य.
a Social Security क्रमांक may be obtained by applying on Form ss-5, `` अनुप्रयोग लिये a Social सुरक्षा Number कार्ड ''.
Minimalism describes आंदोलनों in various फ़ॉर्म of आर्ट और डिज़ाइन, विशेषकर visual आर्ट and म्यूज़िक, जहाँ the work is नियत आउट to expose the essence or पहचान of a विषय through eliminating all non-essential फ़ॉर्म, सुविधाएँ or अवधारणाओं.
Minimalism is any design or style in जिससे the simplest and fewest elements are प्रयुक्त to बनाएँ the अधिकतम प्रभाव.
as a विशिष्ट गति in the कला it is identified with developments in post–world War II पश्चिमी Art, सबसे strongly साथ American विज़ुअल arts in the 1960s and जल्दी 1970s.
prominent artists associated साथ इस गति include डोनाल्ड judd, John mccracken, agnes मार्टिन, डान flavin, रॉबर्ट मॉरिस, ऐनी truitt, और फ़्रैंक Stella.
It is rooted in the reductive aspects of modernism, और is प्रायः interpreted as a प्रतिक्रिया विरूद्ध Abstract अभिव्यंजनावाद और a सेतु to postminimal आर्ट practices.
the शर्तें have expanded to encompass a movement in म्यूज़िक जिससे सुविधाएँ repetition और iteration, as in the रचनाएं of La मोंटे Young, टेरी रिले, स्टीव Reich, फिलिप Glass, और John Adams.
अल्पतम रचनाएं हैं sometimes ज्ञात as systems म्यूज़िक.
the पद `` minimalist '' is प्रायः applied colloquially to designate anything कि is spare or stripped to इसके essentials.
it has भी been used to describe the plays और novels of सैमुएल Beckett, the films of रॉबर्ट bresson, the कहानियां of रेमंड carver, और even the ऑटोमोबाइल डिजाइन of कोलिन chapman.
The शब्द was पहला प्रयुक्त in English in the जल्दी 20th सदी to describe the Mensheviks.
In रसायन और भौतिकी, डाल्टन 's law ( भी called डाल्टन 's विधि of आंशिक pressures ) राज्य कि the total pressure exerted by the mixture of non-reactive gases is equal to the योग of the आंशिक pressures of व्यक्तिगत गैसों.
इस empirical विधि was observed by John डाल्टन in 1801 and is सम्बन्धित to the आदर्श gas कानून.
Mathematically, the दबाव of a मिश्रण of गैसों can be पारिभाषित as the संकलन
or
जहाँ represent the आंशिक दबाव of each घटक.
it is assumed कि the गैसों do नहीं प्रतिक्रिया साथ प्रत्येक other
जहाँ is the mole भिन्न of the i-th component in the total mixture of n components.
the संबंध नीचे provides a way to determine the volume based concentration of कोई व्यक्तिगत gaseous घटक
where is the concentration of the i-th component expressed in ppm.
Dalton 's विधि is not exactly followed by रियल गैसों.
those deviations are considerably large at high pressures.
in ऐसे conditions, the volume occupied by the अणुओं can become significant compared to the फ़्री स्पेस between उन्हें.
in particular, the छोटी average दूरियाँ between molecules उठाता the intensity of intermolecular forces between gas अणुओं enough to substantially बदलें the दबाव exerted by उन्हें.
Neither of those प्रभाव हैं माना by the आदर्श gas मॉडल.
This is a सूची of the largest United राज्य colleges और विश्वविद्यालयों by नामांकन for कॉलेजों और universities in the United States.
What इस सूची includes:
Colleges और universities within the संयुक्त States
विश्वविद्यालयों systems if the प्रणाली is चलाएं under a सिंगल प्रशासन
Enrollment is the sum of the headcount of undergraduate and graduate विद्यार्थी
नामांकन is counted by the Integrated post-secondary शिक्षा System within the u.S. विभाग of Education.
नामांकन is the 12-month unduplicated headcount, indicating the क्रमांक of अद्वितीय विद्यार्थी who attended the university during the year.
कया this list करता not include:
Any indication of how अनेक of the enrolled students हैं पूरा or भाग समय ( e.g., some विश्वविद्यालयों may have a ऊँची enrollment, लकिन have most विद्यार्थी enrolled in तभी a सिंगल क्लास )
लिये other सूचियाँ that माप विश्वविद्यालयों enrollment, see the देखिए भी section नीचे.
`` सही Round '' is a सोंग performed by अमरीकी rapper Flo rida, released as the lead सिंगल इससे उसके second studio एल्बम, R.O.O.T.S. ( 2009 ).
The song features अतिथि vocals इससे Kesha.
It थी released to रेडियो on 27 January 2009 और थी digitally released on 10 February by पो Boy Entertainment और Atlantic Records.
The सोंग lyrically बोलती of flo rida 's जाल बॉल रेफरी enthusiasm, while adapting the कोरस of the 1984 मुर्दे or Alive सोंग `` You स्पिन Me गोलाकार ( जैसे a Record ) `` in इसके आँकड़ा.
according to one of the song 's लेखक, the कोरस refers to oral sex.
Kesha contributed अतिथि vocals to the song, but in the संयुक्त States, दौरान the चलाएं atop the chart, Kesha थी uncredited.
the सोंग प्राप्त ज़्यादातर ऋणात्मक समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों, जो claimed it थी kitsch and misogynistic.
however, it was a वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी, reaching the शीर्ष ten of the चार्ट in nineteen देशों विश्वव्यापी.
in the United States, it became flo rida 's दूसरी number-one सिंगल और broke the record लिये first-week बिक्री when it थी released to digital रिटेलर.
The सिंगल 's accompanying music वीडियो was निर्देशित by Malcolm जोन्स and मनोनीत लिये an MTV Video म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार.
the song has महरूम used in अनेक फिल्मों, ऐसे as The hangover, The भद्दा सच्चाई और the Telugu movie pilla Zamindar.
in the फिल्म Pitch Perfect, the सोंग is performed by the a cappella समूह the treblemakers.
the मुख्य इंसाफ of the United राज्य is the head of the United राज्य federal court system ( the न्यायिक शाखा of the federal सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य ) और the chief न्यायधीश of the परम् अदालत of the United राज्य.
the Chief Justice is एक of nine Supreme अदालत justices ; the other आठ हैं the संबद्ध justices of the परम् अदालत of the United States.
From 1789 जबतक 1866, the दफ्तर was ज्ञात as the Chief इंसाफ of the Supreme Court.
The मुख्य Justice is the उच्चतम न्यायिक अधिकारी in the देश, और अधिनियमों as a मुख्य प्रशासनिक officer लिये the संघीय courts and as सिर of the न्यायिक सम्मेलन of the United राज्य appoints the director of the प्रशासनिक दफ्तर of the United राज्य न्यायालयों.
the Chief Justice also serves as a spokesperson लिये the न्यायिक शाखा.
the मुख्य इंसाफ लीड the business of the परम् Court.
he presides over oral arguments before the अदालत.
जब the अदालत renders an opinion, the Chief Justice—when in the majority—decides जो writes the अदालत 's opinion.
The मुख्य इंसाफ भी has significant agenda-setting power over the अदालत 's meetings.
in the मामला of an impeachment of a अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States, जिससे रै occurred twice, the मुख्य Justice presides over the trial in the Senate.
in आधुनिक परंपरा, the मुख्य Justice has the ceremonial ड्यूटी of administering the oath of office of the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States.
the पहला Chief Justice थी जॉन Jay.
the 17th and वर्तमान मुख्य Justice is John G. रॉबर्ट्स, Jr.
Caribou निकट prudhoe खाड़ी, 1973
Prudhoe खाड़ी आयल फ़ील्ड is a large oil फ़ील्ड on Alaska 's North Slope.
it is the largest आयल field in दोनो the संयुक्त States और in North America, covering and originally containing लगभग of आयल.
the राशि of recoverable आयल in the field is अधिक than double कि of the अगला largest फ़ील्ड in the United राज्य, the East टेक्सास oil field.
the field is संचालित by bp ; partners हैं ExxonMobil and ConocoPhillips Alaska.
Labor unions are legally पहचाना as representatives of workers in अनेक उद्योग in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Their कार्यकलाप today centers on सामूहिक bargaining over wages, लाभ, और working शर्तें लिये उनके सदस्यता, and on representing उनके सदस्यों in disputes with management over उल्लंघनों of अनुबंध प्रावधानों.
Larger संघ also typically engage in lobbying क्रियाएँ and electioneering at the state and संघीय स्तर.
सबसे संघ in America हैं aligned साथ एक of two larger छतरियाँ संगठन : the afl-cio created in 1955, और the बदलें to जीत संघ जिससे विभाजित from the afl-cio in 2005.
दोनो advocate नीतियों and विधान on behalf of workers in the United States और कनाडा, और लो an active role in politics.
The AFL-CIO is विशेषकर चिंतित साथ global trade मुद्दे.
In 2010, the प्रतिशत of workers belonging to a संघ in the United States ( or कुल मजदूर union `` घनत्व '' ) was 11.4 %, compared to 18.4 % in Germany, 27.5 % in Canada, और 70 % in फिनलैंड.
संघ membership in the private सेक्टर has गिरे अंतर्गत 7 % — levels नहीं देखी चूंकि 1932.
संघ allege कि employer-incited विपक्ष रै contributed to इस मनाही in सदस्यता.
The सबसे prominent unions are among public सेक्टर कर्मचारी such as teachers and police.
सदस्यों of संघ हैं disproportionately older, पुरूष और निवासियों of the पूर्वोत्तर, the Midwest, और कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
संघ workers average 10-30 % उच्चतर अदा than non-union in America बाद controlling for individual, जॉब, and labor मार्केट विशेषताएँ.
हालांकि much छोटी compared to उनके शिखर सदस्यता in the 1950s, American संघ remain a prominent राजनैतिक factor, दोनो through mobilization of their अपना memberships और through coalitions साथ like-minded activist संगठन around issues such as immigrant अधिकारों, व्यापार नीति, health परवाह, और जीना wage campaigns.
To fight alleged नियोक्ता anti-union कार्यक्रम, unions हैं currently advocating नई `` कार्ड जाँच `` संघीय legislation that होता आवश्यकता नियोक्ता to सौदेबाजी साथ a union if more than 50 % of workers हस्ताक्षरित forms, or `` cards, '' stating they काश to be represented by कि union.
the वर्तमान कार्यविधि involves waiting 45 to 90 days लिये a federally पर्यवेक्षित secret-ballot employee referendum on the विषय.
The economist जोसेफ stiglitz रै asserted कि, `` दमदार unions have helped to reduce inequality, whereas weaker संघ have made it easier for ceos, sometimes working with मार्केट forces कि they have helped shape, to increase it. ''
The decline in unionization since WWII in the संयुक्त राज्य has महरूम संबद्ध साथ a सुनाया rise in आय और माल असमानता.
a ईसाई lacroix फ़ैशन बुटीक
A boutique is a छोटी shopping आउटलेट, especially एक कि specializes in elite and fashionable वस्तुएं ऐसे as कपडे and jewelry.
the शब्द is फ्रेंच for `` दूकान '', via Latin from यूनानी ἀποθήκη ( apothēkē ), `` storehouse ''.
The पद entered into रोज English उपयोग in the late 1960s जब, for a ब्रैड काल, लंदन थी the centre of the फ़ैशन व्यापार.
Carnaby गली and the किंग्स सड़क यहूद the focus of much मीडिया attention as घर to the सबसे फैशनेबल boutiques of the era.
Now the East of लंदन रै महरूम regenerated and अधिक Boutiques pop up in फैशनेबल क्षेत्रों, ऐसे as Tower Bridge सड़क.
it can also refer to a specialised कड़ ऐसे as a बुटीक निवेश bank or बुटीक विधि कड़.
The word is प्रायः used to describe a प्रॉपर्टी in the independent section of the hotel मार्केट ( ऐसे as the rockwell in लंदन ) in अनुक्रम to distinguish themselves from larger जंजीरों ( ऐसे as हिल्टन होटल ).
In such मामले the establishments उद्देश्य to convey the idea कि the आपरेशन is elite and अत्यधिक specialised.
In the strictest sense of the शब्द, boutiques होता be one-of-a-kind लकिन more generally बोलना, कुछ जंजीरों can be referred to as boutiques if वे specialize in particular शैलियाँ.
Recently, the term `` बुटीक '' has started होने लागू to normally-mass-market items that हैं either niche or उत्पादित in intentionally छोटी संख्याएँ at बहुत high कीमतें.
इस may be referred to as boutique manufacturing.
For example, पहले the रिलीज of the वी, a समय Magazine आलेख सुझाया कि निन्टेंडो could become a `` बुटीक video-game कम्पनी '', producing games for niche ऑडियंस, बल्कि than trying to compete directly with Microsoft and सोनी.
in the traditional luxury- देखें industry scalfaro International is माना as the precursor in निर्माण and बिक्री of bespoke घड़ियाँ.
The स्विस कम्पनी उपयोग a highly लचीली बुटीक निर्माण site, जिससे allows producing छोटी series or भी unique timepieces.
Although कुछ boutiques specialise in hand-made items और अन्य truly one-of-a-kind वस्तुएं, अन्य बस produce t-shirts, स्टिकर, और other फ़ैशन accessories in artificially छोटी रनों और sell them at unusually ऊँची कीमतें.
In the जल्दी 1990s सेलिना प्रारंभ निर्माण उसके अपना लकीर of women 's clothing.
Opening दो boutiques labeled as `` सेलिना इत्यादि. Boutique & सैलून '' एक स्तिथ in कॉर्पस christi and एक स्तिथ in सैन अंतोनियो, टेक्सास.
एक was due to खोलें in monterrey, Mexico, in 1995 लकिन due to her मौत it थी नहीं opened.
Around 1999 the San अंतोनियो location बंद and the Corpus Christi स्थान was बंद in 2009.
in लेट 1990s some European खुदरा traders विकसित the idea of tailoring a दूकान towards a lifestyle theme, in the form of `` अवधारणा stores '', which specialised in cross-selling बगैर using पृथक departments.
One of the first अवधारणा स्टोर्स थी 10 Corso Como in मिलान, Italy followed by colette in पेरिस और quartier 206 in बर्लिन.
अनेक well-known American जंजीरों ऐसे as शहरी outfitters, D-A-S-H, और the गैप, Australian chain billabong and, though कम common, रब & टेलर adapted to the concept स्टोर trend बाद 2000.
नेवी संघीय क्रेडिट Union ( or Navy Federal ) is a credit संघ headquartered in Vienna, वर्जिनिया, chartered और regulated अंतर्गत the authority of the नेशनल क्रेडिट संघ प्रशासन ( NCUA ) of the u.S. संघीय सरकारी.
नेवी संघीय is the largest प्राकृतिक member ( or retail ) credit संघ in the world, both in asset आकार और in membership.
as of सितंबर 2012, नेवी संघीय had over $ 50 अरब usd in एसेट, और over 4 million members.
stevland Hardaway मॉरिस ( born may 13, 1950 as Stevland Hardaway Judkins ), ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज name स्टीवी Wonder, is an American singer, songwriter, and multi-instrumentalist, a चाइल्ड prodigy जो developed into one of the most रचनात्मक musical आंकड़े of the लेट 20th सदी.
Blind चूंकि shortly बाद जनम, अचरज हस्ताक्षरित साथ Motown 's Tamla लेबल at the age of ग्यारह, and continues to perform और रिकार्ड लिये motown to इस दिन.
Among अचरज 's best ज्ञात works are singles such as `` Superstition ``, `` सर Duke ``, `` You Are the Sunshine of my Life `` और `` I बस पुकारा to Say i Love You ``.
Well ज्ञात एल्बम भी include talking किताब, innervisions और Songs in the कुंजी of Life.
He has अंकित अधिक than thirty u.S. top टेन hits और प्राप्त twenty-two Grammy पुरस्कार, the most ever awarded to a पुरूष solo कलाकार.
Wonder is भी noted for उसके work as an activist लिये political कल्याणकारी, सहित his 1980 अभियान to make मार्टिन लूथर किंग, jr. 's जन्मदिवस a अवकाश in the United राज्य.
in 2009, अचरज थी named a संयुक्त राष्ट्र मेसेंजर of सलाम.
in 2008, बिलबोर्ड पत्रिका released a list of the Hot 100 All-Time Top कलाकारों to celebrate the us singles चार्ट 's fiftieth वर्षगांठ, with Wonder at क्रमांक five.
by popular vote, Stevie was inducted into the soulmusic Hall of कीर्ति at SoulMusic.com in दिसम्बर 2012.
मनस्ताप ( from the Greek ψυχή `` psyche '', लिये mind/soul, और -ωσις `` -ओएसआईs '', लिये abnormal condition or derangement ) refers to an abnormal condition of the mind, और is a generic psychiatric पद लिये a mental state प्रायः वर्णित as involving a `` घाटा of contact साथ वास्तविकता ``.
लोगों suffering इससे psychosis हैं described as psychotic.
मनस्ताप is given to the अधिक कठोर फ़ॉर्म of psychiatric विकार, दौरान which मति and delusions, सकल उत्तेजना or बेहोशी और impaired इनसाइट may occur.
The पद `` psychosis '' is very व्यापक और can औसत anything from अपेक्षाकृत सामान्य aberrant experiences through to the जटिल और catatonic expressions of schizophrenia and द्विध्रुवी type 1 disorder.
moreover a चौड़ी variety of central बेचैन प्रणाली diseases, इससे दोनो external substances and internal physiologic illness, can produce symptoms of मनस्ताप.
This led अनेक professionals to कह कि मनस्ताप is not specific enough as a निदान पद.
despite इस, `` मनस्ताप '' is generally दिए to noticeable deficits in normal बर्ताव ( ऋणात्मक signs ) and more commonly to विविध types of मति or delusional मान्यताओं ( e.g. grandiosity, delusions of persecution ).
किसी exhibiting बहुत obvious लक्षण may be वर्णित as `` frankly psychotic '', whereas एक exhibiting बहुत हल्का लक्षण could be classified in the श्रेणी of an `` attenuated psychotic risk सिंड्रोम ''.
An excess in dopaminergic signalling is traditionally linked to the positive symptoms of मनस्ताप, especially those of schizophrenia.
इस is विचार to occur through a यांत्रिकी of aberrant salience of पर्यावरणीय stimuli.
अनेक antipsychotic drugs तदनुसार निशाना the dopamine system ; meta-analyses of placebo-controlled ट्रायल of ये drugs, however, दिखाएँ either no significant अंतर between ड्रग और placebo, or a very छोटी effect size, suggesting कि the pathophysiology of मनस्ताप is much more complex than an overactive dopamine प्रणाली.
People experiencing मनस्ताप may प्रदर्शनी कुछ व्यक्तित्व परिवर्तन and thought disorder.
depending on इसके गंभीरता, इस may be accompanied by असामान्य or bizarre behavior, as well as परेशानी with सोशल बातचीत and पुतलियों in carrying out रोज़ life क्रियाएँ.
सामान्य grievous is a fictional अक्षर in the Star Wars universe.
a पुनरावर्ती विपक्षी, he is the परम् कमांडर of the confederacy of Independent प्रणालियों, a राजनैतिक गुट of ग्रहीय प्रणालियों waging युद्ध on the गांगेय गणतंत्र.
प्रशिक्षित in सब seven फ़ॉर्म of lightsaber combat by गिनती Dooku, he is a निष्ठुर and शक्तिशाली योद्धा devoted to जेडी 's destruction during the क्लोन युद्धों.
His acts of wanton आक्रामकता और ऊँची Jedi body गिनती would prompt the आकाशगंगा to give उसे the उपनाम the knightslayer.
हालांकि the notorious जेडी slayer was the being in the आकाशगंगा दौरान the Clone Wars who had killed the सबसे जेडी in सिंगल कॉम्बैट, he did नहीं संकोच to flee इससे battles he knew he would खोना.
आंकडे खेल an महत्वपूर्ण role in summarizing बेसबॉल प्रदर्शन और evaluating players in the खेल.
चूंकि the flow of a बेसबॉल खेल रै प्राकृतिक ब्रेक to it, और सामान्यतः players act individually rather than performing in क्लस्टर, the खेल lends itself to आसान record-keeping and आंकडे.
आंकडे have been रखा for professional baseball चूंकि the सृष्टि of the नेशनल लीग और American लीग, now भाग of प्रमुख लीग Baseball.
Many statistics are also उपलब्धियाँ इससे बाहर of Major लीग बेसबॉल, इससे leagues such as the नेशनल Association of पेशेवर Base बॉल Players और the Negro लीग.
Dorothea lange 's Migrant माँ depicts अक्षम pea pickers in California, centering on फ्लोरेंस ओवेन्स थॉम्पसन, age 32, a माँ of सात children, in Nipomo, California, March 1936.
यूएसए सालाना real जीडीपी from 1910–60, with the years of the Great अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
the बेरोजगारी रेट in the us 1910–1960, साथ the years of the Great अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
the ग्रेट अवसाद थी a कठोर विश्वव्यापी आर्थिक depression in the decade preceding संसार युद्ध II.
the समय of the Great Depression varied across nations, लकिन in सबसे countries it प्रारंभ in 1930 and lasted जबतक the लेट 1930s or middle 1940s.
It was the longest, सबसे फैली, और deepest depression of the 20th century.
in the 21st सदी, the ग्रेट Depression is commonly used as an उदाहरण of how दूर the संसार 's अर्थव्यवस्था can decline.
the अवसाद originated in the U.S., after the पतन in stock कीमतें that began around September 4, 1929, and became विश्वव्यापी न्यूज with the भण्डार मार्केट क्रैश of अक्तूबर 29, 1929 ( ज्ञात as ब्लैक मंगलवार ).
the Great Depression था devastating प्रभाव in देशों rich and ग़रीब.
Personal आय, tax revenue, profits and prices dropped, while अंतरराष्ट्रीय trade plunged by अधिक than 50 %.
Unemployment in the u.S. रोज़ to 25 %, और in some countries rose as ऊँची as 33 %.
Cities सब around the संसार were hit मुश्किल, especially those निर्भर on heavy उद्योग.
Construction थी virtually halted in many countries.
Farming और ग्रामीण areas suffered as क्रॉप कीमतें गिरी by लगभग 60 %.
facing plummeting माँग साथ few वैकल्पिक स्त्रोत of कार्य, areas dependent on primary सेक्टर उद्योग ऐसे as cash cropping, खनन and लॉगिंग suffered the most.
कुछ economies started to रिकवर by the mid-1930s.
in many countries, the ऋणात्मक effects of the Great Depression lasted जबतक the समाप्त of World युद्ध II.
A असामयिक ventricular संकुचन ( पीवीसी ), भी ज्ञात as a असामयिक ventricular complex, ventricular premature संकुचन ( or जटिल or देवालय ) ( vpc ), ventricular premature ताल ( VPB ), or ventricular extrasystole ( ves ), is a अपेक्षाकृत आम इवेंट जहाँ the धड़कन is initiated by Purkinje मछली in the ventricles बल्कि than by the sinoatrial नोड, the normal heartbeat initiator.
the विद्युत कार्यक्रम of the heart detected by the electrocardiogram allow a पीवीसी to be easily distinguished from a normal heart beat.
a PVC may be perceived as a `` skipped ताल `` or लगा as palpitations in the छाती.
in a सामान्य धड़कन, the ventricles अनुबंध बाद the atria have helped to fill उन्हें by contracting ; in इस way the ventricles can पंप a maximized राशि of रक्त both to the फेफड़े और to the बाकी of the body.
in a पीवीसी, the ventricles contract पहला और before the atria have optimally भर the ventricles साथ blood, जिससे means कि circulation is inefficient.
However, सिंगल ताल पीवीसी arrhythmias do नहीं प्रायः पोज़ a खतरे and can be asymptomatic in स्वस्थ individuals.
विलियम गेरी busey ( born June 29, 1944 ), बेहतर ज्ञात as गेरी Busey, is an अमरीकी film और स्टेज कर्ता, और कलाकार.
he has appeared in a किस्में of films, including Lethal हथियार, Point Break, और Under घेरा, as खूब as guest appearances on Gunsmoke, Walker, टेक्सास रेंजर, Law & अनुक्रम, and Entourage.
he थी मनोनीत लिये an Academy पुरस्कार for Best Actor in 1978 लिये उसके role in the Buddy Holly Story.
The Anti-Counterfeiting व्यापार अनुबंध ( ACTA ), is a multinational सन्धि लिये the purpose of establishing international मानकों लिये intellectual प्रॉपर्टी अधिकारों enforcement.
the agreement aims to स्थापित an अंतरराष्ट्रीय विधिक framework for targeting नकली goods, जेनेरिक दवाइयाँ और copyright infringement on the अंतरजाल, और होता create a नई शासी देह बाहर मौजूदा forums, such as the World व्यापार संगठन, the संसार Intellectual प्रॉपर्टी Organization, or the संयुक्त Nations.
The agreement थी signed in October 2011 by ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Canada, Japan, Morocco, नई Zealand, सिंगापुर, दक्षिण Korea, and the United States.
in 2012, मैक्सिको, the European संघ और 22 countries which are member राज्य of the European संघ हस्ताक्षरित as well.
एक signatory ( जापानी ) रै ratified ( formally स्वीकृत ) the अनुबंध, which would आइये into फ़ोर्स in countries कि ratified it after अनुसमर्थन by six देशों.
Supporters have वर्णित the अनुबंध as a जवाब to `` the increase in global व्यापार of नकली goods और pirated copyright सुरक्षित works ''.
Trades Unions representing मजदूर in the म्यूज़िक, film और tv industries और large intellectual property-based संगठन such as the Motion चित्र संघ of America और Pharmaceutical शोध and निर्माताओं of अमेरिका यहूद active in the सन्धि 's विकास.
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों say the सम्मेलन adversely affects आधारभूत अधिकारों including freedom of expression and गोपनीयता.
acta रै भी महरूम criticised by Doctors बगैर Borders लिये endangering access to medicines in विकासशील देशों.
The secret प्रकृति of negotiations has excluded सिविल समाज समूह, developing countries और the सामान्य public इससे the अनुबंध 's negotiation प्रक्रम और it रै महरूम वर्णित as नीति laundering by critics सहित the Electronic Frontier न्यास और the Entertainment Consumers संघ.
The हस्ताक्षर of the eu और अनेक of its सदस्य राज्य resulted in the resignation in विरोध of the यूरोपीय पार्लियामेंट 's नियुक्त मुख्य investigator, rapporteur कादर आरिफ, as खूब as widespread protests आरपार Europe.
in 2012 the newly-appointed rapporteur, अंग्रेजों mep दाउद Martin, अनुशंसित against the treaty, stating : `` the intended benefits of इस अंतरराष्ट्रीय agreement are far outweighed by the potential खतरे to सिविल लिबर्टीज ''.
On 4 July 2012, the European पार्लियामेंट rejected the agreement in plenary सत्र, साथ 478 मतदान against the सन्धि, 39 in पक्ष और 165 meps abstaining.
FAW semi-trailer truck in China
ट्रैक्टर साथ पक्ष dump ट्रेलर semi-trailer
a ट्रैक्टर साथ an auto-transport semi-trailer.
semi-trailer truck साथ स्लीपर behind the टैक्सी.
A semi-trailer truck is an articulated गाडी कि consists of a towing engine, known as a tractor in the United राज्य और truck in many अन्य places, संलग्न to एक or more semi-trailers to carry भाड़ा.
it is भी ज्ञात as a transport in कनाडा, प्रधान प्रस्तावक in Australia, सेमी, tractor-trailer, truck and ट्रेलर, transfer truck, 18-wheeler, mack ट्रक, बिग रिग in the United राज्य, or artic, short लिये articulated लारी, in ब्रिटेन and आयरलैंड.
A semi-trailer does नहीं trail completely behind the towing गाडी, but is संलग्न at a point कि is just आगे of the rear-most धुरी of the towing ईकाई.
इस is done so that a fraction of the वज़न of the ट्रेलर is carried by the प्रधान mover.
इस arrangement अर्थात् कि both tractor and semi-trailer होगा have a distinctly different डिज़ाइन than a rigid ट्रक and ट्रेलर.
The पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स हैं a पेशेवर football team based in पिट्सबर्ग, पेन्सिलवेनिया.
The team फिलहाल belongs to the North प्रभाग of the American Football सम्मेलन ( AFC ) in the National Football लीग ( एनएफएल ).
संस्थापित in, the स्टीलर्स हैं the oldest मताधिकार in the AFC.
पिट्सबर्ग रै won अधिक Super कटोरी titles ( छह ), जीती अधिक AFC चैंपियनशिप Games ( आठ ) and निभाई in ( पंद्रह ) और hosted अधिक ( ग्यारह ) conference चैंपियनशिप खेल than any other afc or NFC टोली.
The Steelers share the रिकार्ड for सबसे सुपर Bowl appearances साथ the डलास cowboys ( आठ ).
The स्टीलर्स जीती their most हाल championship, सुपर Bowl XLIII, on February 1, 2009.
the Steelers यहूद संस्थापित as the Pittsburgh Pirates on July 8, 1933, by आर्ट Rooney, taking इसके original name इससे the बेसबॉल team of the वही नाम, as was आम अभ्यास लिये एनएफएल teams to do at the समय.
The ownership of the Steelers has remained within the रूनी परिवार चूंकि इसके founding.
the वर्तमान owner is Art 's son, Dan रूनी, जो रै given much control of the franchise to his बेटे Art रूनी II.
Long एक of the एनएफएल 's flagship teams, the स्टीलर्स आनंद a विशाल, widespread fanbase nicknamed Steeler स्वदेश.
The Steelers फिलहाल खेल उनके घर खेल at Heinz Field on पिट्सबर्ग 's North Side in the उत्तर Shore neighborhood, which भी होस्ट the विश्वविद्यालयों of Pittsburgh पैंथर्स.
निर्मित in 2001, the स्टेडियम replaced तीन नदियाँ Stadium जिससे hosted the स्टीलर्स लिये 31 seasons.
Prior to तीन Rivers, the स्टीलर्स had निभाई उनके games in pitt स्टेडियम and Forbes Field.
तीन different kinds of गेहूं और rye आटा
आटा is a powder which is बना by grinding खाद्यान्न दाने, or other बीज or roots ( जैसे कसावा ).
It is the main ingredient of ब्रैड, जिससे is a staple food लिये अनेक संस्कृतियों, बनाना the उपलब्धता of पर्याप्त supplies of flour a major economic और political समस्या at विभिन्न टाइम्स throughout इतिहास.
गेहूं flour is एक of the most important foods in यूरोपीय, उत्तर अमरीकी, मध्य पूर्वी, Indian and North African संस्कृतियों, और is the धमक संघटक in सबसे of their styles of breads और pastries.
जबकि wheat is the सबसे आम आधार लिये flour, corn flour रै महरूम important in Mesoamerican cuisine since प्राचीन टाइम्स, और remains a स्टेपल throughout the americas.
Rye आटा is an important constituent of bread in much of सेंट्रल यूरोपीय, और rice can also be used in आटा, हालांकि इस is relatively uncommon.
दिल rate is the क्रमांक of heartbeats प्रति unit of समय, typically expressed as beats प्रति minute ( bpm ).
Heart rate can vary as the देह 's need to absorb oxygen और excrete कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड changes, ऐसे as दौरान physical exercise, sleep, बीमारी, or as a result of ingesting दवाएँ :
सेंट्रल बेचैन प्रणाली stimulants ऐसे as amphetamines increase heart रेट.
Central nervous प्रणाली depressants or sedatives decreases the दिल rate ( अलावा इससे कुछ विशेषकर strange ones साथ equally अजीब प्रभाव, ऐसे as केटामाइन which can कारण - amongst अनेक other things - stimulant-like प्रभाव such as tachycardia ).
There are अनेक तरीके in which the दिल rate speeds up or slows down.
सबसे involve stimulant-like endorphins और hormones होने released in the दिमाग, अनेक of जिससे are those that हैं 'forced'/'enticed ' आउट by the ingestion and प्रसंस्करण of दवाएँ.
due to individuals having a constant रक्त volume, एक of the physiological तरीके to उद्धार अधिक oxygen to an organ is to increase दिल rate to परमिट रक्त to pass by the organ more often.
सामान्य resting दिल दरों range इससे 60-100 bpm.
Bradycardia is defined as a resting heart रेट नीचे 60 bpm.
However, दिल दरों इससे 50 to 60 bpm हैं आम among स्वस्थ people और do not necessarily आवश्यकता खास attention.
Tachycardia is पारिभाषित as a resting heart रेट ऊपर 100 bpm, हालांकि persistent बाकी दरों between 80-100 bpm, mainly if they are present during sleep, may be signs of हाइपरथाइरॉयडिज़्म or anemia ( देखिए below ).
कैथरीन ii 's carved, चित्रित और gilded राजतिलक Coach ( hermitage संग्रहालय )
a carriage is a wheeled गाडी लिये लोगों, प्रायः horse-drawn ; litters ( palanquins ) और सेडान कुर्सियां are excluded, चूंकि they are wheelless वाहनों.
the carriage is especially designed for निजी passenger use and लिये comfort or elegance, हालांकि कुछ हैं also प्रयुक्त to हस्तांतरण goods.
It may be light, smart and fast or भारी, विशाल और आरामदायक.
carriages सामान्यतः have suspension using पत्ता स्रोतों, अंडाकार स्रोतों ( in the 19th सदी ) or चमड़े strapping.
A public यात्री गाडी होता नहीं प्रायः be पुकारा a carriage – शर्तें for such include stagecoach, charabanc and omnibus.
working vehicles ऐसे as the ( four-wheeled ) वैगन and ( two-wheeled ) कार्ट share महत्वपूर्ण भाग of the इतिहास of the carriage, as is the तेज़ ( two-wheeled ) रथ.
The 2004 Indian समंदर earthquake was an undersea megathrust भूकंप कि occurred at 00:58:53 UTC on Sunday, 26 December 2004, साथ an epicentre बंद the वेस्ट coast of सुमात्रा, इंडोनेशिया.
the quake itself is ज्ञात by the वैज्ञानिक community as the sumatra–andaman भूकंप.
The resulting सुनामी थी दिए विभिन्न names, सहित the 2004 Indian समंदर सुनामी, दक्षिण एशियाई सुनामी, इंडोनेशियाई tsunami, और the Boxing दिन tsunami.
The भूकंप थी caused by subduction और triggered a श्रेणी of devastating tsunamis साथ the coasts of सबसे landmasses bordering the भारतीय Ocean, हत्या over 230,000 people in चौदह देशों, and inundating coastal समुदायों with लहरें up to ऊँची.
it was एक of the deadliest प्राकृतिक आपदाओं in अंकित history.
इंडोनेशिया थी the hardest-hit देश, followed by श्री Lanka, इण्डिया, and Thailand.
साथ a परिमाण of mw 9.1–9.3, it is the third largest earthquake कभी अंकित on a seismograph.
the भूकंप था the longest अवधि of faulting ever observed, between 8.3 और 10 मिनट्स.
it caused the संपूर्ण planet to vibrate as much as और triggered other earthquakes as far away as अलास्का.
Its epicentre थी between Simeulue और mainland इंडोनेशिया.
the plight of the प्रभावित लोगों and देशों prompted a worldwide humanitarian जवाब.
in all, the विश्वव्यापी community दान more than $ 14 billion ( 2004 US $ ) in humanitarian aid.
Steam rising इससे the nesjavellir Geothermal शक्ति स्टेशन in आइसलैंड.
geothermal energy is थर्मल उर्जा generated और भंडारित in the Earth.
Thermal उर्जा is the उर्जा कि determines the temperature of matter.
The geothermal energy of the धरती 's क्रस्ट originates from the असली formation of the planet ( 20 % ) और from रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय of खनिज ( 80 % ).
the geothermal gradient, जिससे is the अंतर in तापमान between the कोर of the ग्रह और इसके सतह, ड्राइव a निरन्तर conduction of thermal energy in the रूप of ऊष्मा from the कोर to the सतह.
the adjective geothermal originates इससे the Greek roots γη ( ge ), अर्थ धरती, and θερμος ( thermos ), meaning hot.
at the core of the धरती, थर्मल energy is निर्मित by रेडियोसक्रिय decay और temperatures may पहुँचें over 5000 °c ( 9,000 °f ).
ऊष्मा conducts इससे the कोर to surrounding cooler चट्टान.
the ऊँची तापमान और दबाव कारण कुछ rock to melt, creating magma संवहन upward चूंकि it is हल्का than the solid चट्टान.
the मैग्मा heats rock और जल in the क्रस्ट, sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °f ).
From hot springs, geothermal energy रै been प्रयुक्त लिये स्नान since Paleolithic times और लिये space हीटिंग since प्राचीन रोमन टाइम्स, लकिन it is अभी बेहतर known लिये electricity पीढी.
Worldwide, about 10,715 megawatts ( MW ) of geothermal शक्ति is ऑनलाइन in 24 देशों.
an additional 28 gigawatts of सीधा geothermal heating क्षमता is संस्थापित for ज़िला हीटिंग, space heating, spas, industrial प्रक्रियाओं, desalination और agricultural applications.
Geothermal power is cost प्रभावी, विश्वसनीय, चिरस्थायी, and environmentally दोस्ताना, लकिन has historically been सीमित to areas निकट tectonic थाली boundaries.
हाल technological अग्रिम have dramatically विस्तारित the range and आकार of viable संसाधन, विशेषकर लिये applications ऐसे as घर हीटिंग, खोलने a potential लिये widespread exploitation.
Geothermal wells release greenhouse गैसों फंस deep within the earth, लकिन ये emissions are much निम्नतर प्रति energy unit than those of fossil fuels.
as a परिणाम, geothermal power has the संभावित to सहायता mitigate वैश्विक warming if widely तैनात in प्लेस of fossil fuels.
the Earth 's geothermal संसाधन हैं theoretically अधिक than adequate to supply मानवता 's उर्जा needs, लकिन only a बहुत small भिन्न may be profitably शोषित.
खुदाई and खोजी for गहन resources is बहुत महंगी.
forecasts for the future of geothermal power निर्भर on assumptions about प्रौद्योगिकी, उर्जा prices, subsidies, and ब्याज rates.
Pilot programs like EWEB 's ग्राहक ऑप्ट in ग्रीन Power कार्यक्रम show कि ग्राहक होता be willing to अदा a little more for a renewable उर्जा source जैसे geothermal.
लकिन as a परिणाम of सरकारी assisted शोध और उद्योग experience, the cost of generating geothermal power रै decreased by 25 % over the पास्ट two decades.
in 2001, geothermal energy लागत between two and टेन cents प्रति kwh.
the पद घन foot is an इम्पीरियल and us प्रथागत ( non- मीट्रिक ) unit of आवाज़, प्रयुक्त in the United राज्य और the United किंगडम.
It is पारिभाषित as the आवाज़ of a घन with sides of एक foot ( 0.3048 m ) in लंबाई.
To calculate घन फीट multiply लंबाई X चौडाई X ऊँचाई.
Hồ chí मिन्ह ( उत्तरी वियतनामी उच्चारण :, दक्षिणी वियतनामी उच्चारण : ) ; 19 May 1890 – 2 September 1969 ), born Nguyễn Sinh Cung और भी known as nguyễn tất Thành and nguyễn Ái quốc, थी a वियतनामी communist revolutionary leader who was प्रधान मंत्री ( 1945–1955 ) और president ( 1945–1969 ) of the लोकतांत्रिक Republic of वियतनाम ( उत्तर वियतनाम ).
he थी a कुंजी figure in the foundation of the लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of वियतनाम in 1945, as खूब as the people’s Army of वियतनाम ( pavn ) और the Việt Cộng ( NLF or VC ) during the वियतनाम War.
he led the việt Minh independence movement इससे 1941 onward, establishing the कम्युनिस्ट -ruled Democratic गणतंत्र of Vietnam in 1945 and defeating the फ्रेंच Union in 1954 at the बैटल of điện Biên phủ.
he officially stepped bas इससे power in 1955 due to स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं, लकिन remained a अत्यधिक दृश्य figurehead और प्रेरणा for those वियतनामी लड़ लिये उसके cause—a संयुक्त, कम्युनिस्ट Vietnam—until उसके मौत.
बाद the युद्ध, Saigon, पूंजी of the Republic of Vietnam, थी renamed hồ chí Minh नगर.
सब सड़कें सीसे Home is a विशेषता film released on सितंबर 26, 2008.
निर्देशित by डेनिस fallon, it सितारों पीटर Boyle, patton Oswalt, जेसन London, Vivien cardone, वैनेसा शाखा, पीटर Coyote, Stephen Milton, और Allan Kayser.
the movie was फिल्माया in और around कान्सास नगर, Missouri.
The फिल्म made इसके World Premiere जनवरी 27 at the Santa बारबरा International फिल्मी Festival.
the फिल्मी रै भी recently महरूम in several film त्यौहार, और has प्राप्त ख़राब समीक्षाएँ.
पीटर बॉयल died पहले the फिल्म 's रिलीज.
it थी the last फिल्म he appeared in.
बिक्री taxes in the United राज्य हैं कर placed on the sale or lease of goods and services in the संयुक्त राज्य.
जबकि no नेशनल सामान्य sales tax exists, the संघीय सरकारी levies अनेक नेशनल चयनात्मक sales taxes on the sale or पट्टे of particular goods and services.
furthermore, forty-five states, the ज़िला of Columbia, and Guam थोपने सामान्य बिक्री taxes that लागू to the sale or पट्टे of सबसे goods और कुछ सेवाएं, and states भी may levy चयनात्मक sales taxes on the बिक्री or lease of particular goods or services.
राज्य may also delegate to local governments the authority to थोपने additional सामान्य or selective sales taxes.
बिक्री कर is गणना by multiplying the purchase दाम by the लागू कर rate.
कर दरों vary widely by क्षेत्राधिकार and दायरा from less than 1 % to over 10 %.
बिक्री tax is एकत्रित by the विक्रेता at the समय of sale.
उपयोग कर is स्वः assessed by a खरीदार जो has नहीं paid बिक्री tax on a taxable खरीदें.
Unlike the value added कर, a बिक्री tax is imposed तभी एकबार, at the retail स्तर.
However, in मामले where items are बेची at खुदरा more than एकबार, such as प्रयुक्त cars, the sales tax can be charged on the same मद indefinitely.
The परिभाषा of खुदरा sales और कया goods और सेवाएं हैं taxable vary among the राज्य.
nearly सब jurisdictions provide numerous श्रेणी of goods और services that हैं exempt from बिक्री tax, or taxed at reduced rates.
the खरीदें of goods लिये further manufacture or लिये पुनर्विक्रय is uniformly exempt from sales कर.
सबसे jurisdictions exempt food sold in किराना स्टोर्स, नुस्खा medications, और अनेक agricultural आपूर्तियाँ.
Sales कर, including those imposed by लोकल governments, हैं generally administered at the राज्य level.
राज्य imposing बिक्री कर आवश्यकता खुदरा विक्रेता to collect कर इससे ग्राहक, file returns, and remit the tax to the state.
प्रक्रियात्मक rules vary widely.
Sellers generally must collect कर इससे in-state purchasers जबतक the क्रेता provides an exemption प्रमाणपत्र.
सबसे states allow or require इलेक्ट्रॉनिक remittance.
a central processing ईकाई ( CPU ), also referred to as a सेंट्रल processor ईकाई, is the hardware within a कंप्यूटर that carries आउट the instructions of a computer कार्यक्रम by performing the basic अंकगणितीय, लॉजिकल, and input/output परिचालन of the system.
The पद रै महरूम in use in the computer industry at least since the early 1960s.
The रूप, design, और क्रियान्वयन of cpu have बदला over the कोर्स of उनके इतिहास, but उनके आधारभूत operation remains much the वही.
a कंप्यूटर can have अधिक than एक cpu ; इस is called multiprocessing.
Some एकीकृत circuits ( ICs ) can contain अनेक CPUs on a single चिप ; those ics are पुकारा multi-core processors.
Two ठेठ components of a cpu हैं the arithmetic लॉजिक ईकाई ( alu ), which performs गणित और logical परिचालन, और the कंट्रोल ईकाई ( cu ), जिससे extracts निर्देश from memory और decodes and चलाता them, calling on the alu जब necessary.
नहीं all computational प्रणालियों rely on a सेंट्रल प्रसंस्करण unit.
an सरणी processor or vector प्रोसेसर has अनेक समानांतर कम्प्यूटिंग तत्व, with no एक ईकाई माना the `` center ''.
in the distributed computing मॉडल, problems are हल by a वितरित interconnected set of processors.
RFID chip next to a अनाज of राइस.
This चिप contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic field कुंडली that modulates an बाह्य magnetic फ़ील्ड to transfer a coded पहचान क्रमांक जब queried by a reader यंत्र.
This small type is incorporated in उपभोक्ता products, and implanted in pets, लिये identification purposes.
Radio-frequency पहचान ( rfid ) is the wireless non-contact use of radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ील्ड to ट्रांसफ़र आंकड़ा, for the purposes of automatically identifying and tracking tags संलग्न to objects.
The टैग contain electronically भंडारित information.
कुछ टैग हैं संचालित और पढ़ा at short सीमाएँ ( a few meters ) via चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड ( इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक प्रेरण ).
अन्य उपयोग a लोकल power source ऐसे as a बैटरी, or else have no battery लकिन collect उर्जा from the interrogating EM field, और तब अधिनियम as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or UHF रेडियो लहरें ( i.e., इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक radiation at ऊँची frequencies ).
बैटरी संचालित टैग may operate at hundreds of meters.
नापसंद a बार कोड, the tag करता not necessarily need to be within लकीर of sight of the reader, और may be embedded in the tracked object.
rfid tags are प्रयुक्त in many उद्योग.
An RFID टैग attached to an ऑटोमोबाइल during production can be प्रयुक्त to track its प्रगति through the सभा line.
दवाएँ can be tracked through warehouses.
पशुधन and पालतु may have टैग injected, allowing धनात्मक identification of the animal.
चूंकि rfid tags can be attached to कपडे, possessions, or भी implanted within लोगों, the possibility of reading personally-linked information without सहमति रै raised privacy चिंताएं.
Overtime is the amount of समय किसी works परे सामान्य working घंटों.
सामान्य hours may be संकल्पित in अनेक रास्ताs:
by कस्टम ( कया is माना स्वस्थ or reasonable by समाज ),
by practices of a दिए व्यापार or profession,
by legislation,
by अनुबंध between नियोक्ता और workers or their representatives.
सबसे राष्ट्र have overtime labor laws designed to dissuade or prevent नियोक्ता इससे forcing उनके employees to work excessively long hours.
These कानून may लो into खाता other considerations than the humanitarian, such as preserving the स्वास्थ्य of workers so that वे may continue to be productive, or increasing the overall level of employment in the अर्थव्यवस्था.
One common approach to regulating overtime is to require employers to pay workers at a उच्चतर hourly रेट लिये ओवरटाइम कार्य.
Companies may choose to pay workers उच्चतर overtime अदा भी if नहीं obliged to do so by विधि, विशेषकर if वे मानना कि they फेस a पिछड़ा झुकने सप्लाई curve of श्रमिक.
Overtime pay दरों can cause मजदूर to कार्य longer hours than वे would at a चपटा hourly रेट.
ओवरटाइम laws, attitudes toward ओवरटाइम and घंटों of work vary greatly इससे देश to देश and between अलग आर्थिक सेक्टर.
Visualization of links between pages on a विक using a force-directed layout.
force-directed graph drawing algorithms are a class of algorithms लिये drawing graphs in an aesthetically pleasing way.
उनके purpose is to स्थिति the नोड of a आलेख in two-dimensional or three-dimensional स्पेस so that all the किनारे हैं of अधिक or less बराबर length और there are as few crossing किनारे as possible, by assigning forces among the नियत of किनारे और the set of नोड, आधारित on their relative स्थितियाँ, और तब using these forces either to simulate the motion of the edges और nodes or to minimize उनके energy.
जबकि आलेख drawing can be a मुश्किल problem, force-directed algorithms, होने शारीरिक simulations, प्रायः require no खास knowledge about आलेख theory ऐसे as planarity.
खरीदना शक्ति ( sometimes retroactively पुकारा adjusted for महंगाई ) is the amount of goods or सेवाएं that can be खरीदा साथ a unit of करेंसी.
For उदाहरण, if तुम had taken one डालर to a स्टोर in the 1950s, you होता have महरूम समर्थ to buy a वृहद number of वस्तुएं than तुम होता आज, indicating that तुम would have था a greater खरीदना शक्ति in the 1950s.
Currency can be either a commodity धन, like सुनहरा or चांदी, or fiat currency, or free-floating market-valued करेंसी like us डॉलर.
as आदम Smith विख्यात, having धन देता एक the क्षमता to `` command '' अन्य ' labor, so खरीदना शक्ति to कुछ extent is power over अन्य लोगों, to the extent that वे are willing to व्यापार their मजदूर or goods लिये money or currency.
if एक 's monetary income stays the वही, but the दाम स्तर increases, the खरीदना शक्ति of that income जलप्रपात.
महंगाई does नहीं always imply गिरना purchasing power of one 's money आय चूंकि it may वृद्धि faster than the price level.
A उच्चतर रियल income अर्थात् a उच्चतर purchasing शक्ति since real income refers to the income समायोजित लिये महंगाई.
लिये a दाम index, इसके value in the base साल is usually normalized to a मान of 100.
The खरीदना शक्ति of a unit of करेंसी, कह a डालर, in a दिए साल, expressed in dollars of the आधार साल, is 100/p, जहाँ p is the दाम अनुक्रमणिका in that साल.
so, by परिभाषा the purchasing power of a dollar decreases as the दाम स्तर rises.
The खरीदना शक्ति in आज 's धन of an amount c of money, t years into the भविष्य, can be computed साथ the सूत्र for the उपस्थित मान :
where in this case i is an assumed भविष्य सालाना महंगाई रेट.
शिक्षा in दक्षिण कोरियाई is viewed as being crucial लिये कामयाबी और प्रतियोगिता is consequently very heated and fierce.
a सेंट्रल प्रशासन oversees the process for the शिक्षा of children इससे kindergarten to the third और final साल of high school.
गणित, विज्ञान, कोरियाई, English, और सोशल studies are generally considered to be the most महत्वपूर्ण विषय.
सामान्यतः शारीरिक education is नहीं considered महत्वपूर्ण as it is नहीं recognised, by the generally अकादमिक elitist South Korean populace, as शिक्षा and इसलिए अनेक स्कूलों कमी high-quality gymnasiums और varsity एथलेटिक्स.
South Korea थी the first देश in the world to provide high-speed internet access to सब प्राथमिक, जूनियर, and high schools.
Although South कोरियाई विद्यार्थी प्रायः rank highly on अंतरराष्ट्रीय comparative assessments जब compared to विद्यार्थी of सबसे Western शिक्षा systems, the दक्षिण कोरियाई शिक्षा प्रणाली is criticised लिये emphasising too much upon passive learning and memorisation.
The South कोरियाई education प्रणाली is बल्कि notably सख्त and overly structured as compared to its counterparts in सबसे पश्चिमी समाजों.
Also, the व्यापकता of non-school for-profit private संस्थान such as academies or cram-schools ( hagwon [ 학원 ] ), which too emphasise on passive memorisation, as opposed to conceptual समझना, in students हैं criticised as a प्रमुख सोशल प्रॉब्लम.
the My lai Massacre (, ;,, or ) was the वियतनाम युद्ध mass हत्या of between 347 और 504 निहत्थे नागरिकों in दक्षिण Vietnam on कूच 16, 1968, by संयुक्त राज्य Army सैनिको of `` चार्ली '' कम्पनी of 1st बटालियन, 20th infantry रेजीमेंट, 11th Brigade of the Americal Division.
पीड़ितों शामिल महिलाओं, मेन, children, and infants.
कुछ of the women were gang-raped and their लाशें यहूद बाद मिला to be mutilated और many महिलाओं यहूद allegedly raped prior to the हत्याओं.
While 26 u.S. soldiers यहूद initially चार्ज साथ criminal offenses लिये उनके actions at mỹ lai, only दूसरी Lieutenant विलियम calley, a प्लाटून leader in Charlie कम्पनी, was convicted.
मिला अपराधी of हत्या 22 ग्रामीणों, he was originally given a life sentence, but तभी परोसा तीन and a half सालो अंतर्गत हाउस गिरफ़्तार.
the नरसंहार took प्लेस in the hamlets of My lai और my Khe of बेटे My village.
The event is also known as the Son My Massacre, विशेषकर in the Vietnamese राज्य मीडिया.
the u.S. सैन्य codeword लिये the `` viet cong stronghold '' थी `` Pinkville ''.
The घटना prompted वैश्विक आक्रोश जब it became पब्लिक ज्ञान in 1969.
the massacre भी increased domestic विपक्ष to the U.S. involvement in the वियतनाम युद्ध.
तीन U.S. servicemen who था आजमाया to halt the नरसंहार और protect the wounded यहूद initially denounced by several U.S. Congressmen as traitors.
They received नफ़रत mail और death खतरे and मिला mutilated पशु on their doorsteps.
The तीन यहूद later widely praised और decorated by the फौज for उनके वीर actions.
The hijackers in the सितंबर 11 हमले यहूद 19 मेन संबद्ध साथ al-qaeda, और 15 of the 19 यहूद नागरिकों of सऊदी Arabia.
Others यहूद इससे मिश्र, लेबनान, और the uae.
The hijackers यहूद व्यवस्थित into four टीमों, each led by a pilot-trained hijacker with चार `` मांसपेशी hijackers '' जो were प्रशिक्षित to सहायता subdue the पायलटों, passengers, और क्रू.
the पहला hijackers to arrive in the United States were Khalid al-mihdhar and Nawaf al-hazmi, who settled in the San Diego area in January 2000.
They were followed by three hijacker-pilots, Mohamed Atta, marwan al-shehhi, और Ziad jarrah जल्दी in the summer of 2000 to undertake उड़ान training in south Florida.
the fourth hijacker-pilot, hani Hanjour, arrived in सैन Diego in December 2000.
the बाकी of the `` muscle hijackers '' arrived in the वसन्त और early गर्मियाँ of 2001, just months before the सितंबर 11 हमले.
abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad इब्न ʿabd Allāh इब्न ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib ibn Hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 जून 632 ), भी transliterated as Muhammad ( ), was a religious, राजनैतिक, और सैन्य नेता इससे मक्का who एकीकृत अरब into a single धार्मिक polity under Islam.
he is believed by Muslims और Bahá'ís to be a मेसेंजर and नबी of परमेश्वर.
मुहम्मद is almost universally माना by मुसलमान as the पिछला prophet sent by परमेश्वर लिये mankind.
non-muslims लिहाज़ मुहम्मद as the संस्थापक of Islam.
मुसलमान consider उसे to be the restorer of an unaltered असली monotheistic faith of आदम, नूह, Abraham, मूसा, Jesus, और other prophets.
Born in about 570 CE in the Arabian city of मक्का, he was अनाथ at an जल्दी आयु and brought up under the परवाह of उसके uncle Abu तालिब.
He बाद worked mostly as a व्यापारी, as well as a shepherd, और थी पहला शादीशुदा by आयु 25.
Being in the आदत of periodically retreating to a गुफा in the surrounding mountains लिये several नाइट्स of seclusion और prayer, he बाद reported कि it थी there, at age 40, that he received his first रहस्योद्घाटन इससे परमेश्वर.
तीन years बाद इस इवेंट मुहम्मद प्रारंभ उपदेश these खुलासे publicly, proclaiming that `` God is एक ``, that पूरा `` आत्मसमर्पण '' to उसे ( lit.
islām ) is the तभी way ( dīn ) स्वीकार्य to परमेश्वर, और कि he खुद थी a नबी और मेसेंजर of परमेश्वर, in the same vein as अन्य Islamic नबियों.
मुहम्मद gained few followers early on, and थी मिले साथ दुश्मनी इससे कुछ Meccan जनजातियों ; he and उसके अनुसरणकर्ता यहूद treated harshly.
to एस्केप persecution, Muhammad भेजा some of his अनुसरणकर्ता to अबीसीनिया पहले he and उसके followers in मक्का migrated to Medina ( then ज्ञात as yathrib ) in the year 622.
This इवेंट, the हिज्र, marks the beginning of the Islamic पंचांग, जिससे is also ज्ञात as the Hijri Calendar.
In मदीना, Muhammad संयुक्त the tribes अंतर्गत the संविधान of मदीना.
बाद eight years of लड़ साथ the meccan जनजातियों, his अनुसरणकर्ता, who by then था grown to 10,000, took control of मक्का in the largely शांतिपूर्ण conquest of मक्का.
He नष्ट the pagan मूर्तियों in the city और तब भेजा his अनुसरणकर्ता आउट to destroy all of the remaining pagan मंदिरों in Eastern अरब.
in 632, a few महीने बाद returning to मदीना इससे the Farewell Pilgrimage, मुहम्मद गिरी ill और died.
By the समय of उसके death, सबसे of the arabian प्रायद्वीप था converted to Islam, और he had संयुक्त अरब into a single Muslim धार्मिक polity.
the revelations ( or ayah, lit.
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — जिससे मुहम्मद reported receiving जबतक उसके death – form the आयतें of the कुरान, regarded by मुसलमान as the `` शब्द of God '' and around जिससे the धर्म is based.
besides the कुरान, मुहम्मद 's जीवन ( सिरा ) और परंपराओं ( सुन्नत ) are भी upheld by Muslims as the स्त्रोत of शरीयत विधि.
They discuss मुहम्मद और other नबियों of islam साथ reverence, adding the phrase सलाम be upon him whenever their names हैं उल्लेखित.
जबकि conceptions of मुहम्मद in medieval Christendom और premodern टाइम्स यहूद largely ऋणात्मक, appraisals in आधुनिक इतिहास have महरूम far less so.
इस is a सूची of tables of the सत्यापित oldest लोगों in the world in ordinal rank, ऐसे as oldest व्यक्ति or oldest man.
in these tables, a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if his or her claim रै been validated by an international देह कि specifically सौदे in आयु शोध, ऐसे as the Gerontology शोध Group ( GRG ) or गिनीज संसार Records.
The longest unambiguously documented इंसान lifespan is कि of Jeanne calment of फ़्रांस ( 1875–1997 ), जो died at आयु 122 सालो, 164 दिनों.
She मिले विंसेंट वैन gogh when she थी 12 or 13.
इस led to news मीडिया ध्यान in 1985, after calment turned 110.
subsequent छानबीन मिला दस्तावेज़ीकरण for Calment 's आयु, beyond कोई उचित question, in the रिकॉर्ड of her native नगर, Arles, France.
अधिक evidence of Calment 's जीवनकाल has महरूम उत्पादित than लिये any अन्य supercentenarian ; उसके case serves as an archetype in the methodology लिये verifying the आयु of the संसार 's oldest लोगों.
The longest undisputed जीवनकाल for पुरूष supercentenarians is कि of jiroemon किमुरा, who फिलहाल जीवनदान in जापानी and is आयु as of.
चूंकि the मौत of 115-year बूढ़ा Dina manfredini of the संयुक्त States, on 17 दिसम्बर 2012, Kimura, born 19 April 1897, is the oldest जीना person in the world जिनकी आयु can be documented.
he रै also महरूम the oldest living man since the मौत of 114-year बूढ़ा Walter Breuning on 14 अप्रैल 2011.
चूंकि the death of 115-year बूढ़ा Koto okubo of जापानी on 12 January 2013, the oldest living स्त्री रै महरूम -year-old misao okawa, भी from जापानी, born on 5 March 1898.
This is a समयरेखा of the african-american सिविल Rights गति.
the Civil Rights गति was a freedom संघर्ष by अफ़्रीकी Americans in the 1950s और 1960s to लाभ समता.
the goals of the गति यहूद freedom from पक्षपात, बराबर अवसर in नियुक्ति, education and housing, the सही to vote and बराबर access to पब्लिक सुविधाएं.
भारी मेटल ( प्रायः referred to as metal ) is a genre of rock music कि विकसित in the लेट 1960s and जल्दी 1970s, largely in the संयुक्त Kingdom and in the United राज्य.
साथ जड़ें in ब्लूज़ चट्टान और psychedelic चट्टान, the bands कि created भारी metal developed a thick, विशाल sound, characterized by अत्यधिक amplified distortion, विस्तारित गिटार solos, emphatic बीट्स, और overall loudness.
भारी मेटल गीत और प्रदर्शन styles are generally संबद्ध with masculinity और machismo.
The पहला भारी metal bands such as led zeppelin, गहन Purple और Black Sabbath attracted विशाल ऑडियंस, हालांकि they were प्रायः derided by critics, a औकात common throughout the इतिहास of the विधा.
in the mid-1970s यहूदा पुजारी helped spur the genre 's एवोल्यूशन by discarding much of इसके ब्लूज़ influence ; motörhead introduced a punk rock sensibility और an increasing emphasis on गति.
Bands in the नई वेव of British भारी Metal such as Iron Maiden followed in a similar vein.
पहले the समाप्त of the decade, भारी metal fans became ज्ञात as `` metalheads `` or `` headbangers ``.
दौरान the 1980s, glam metal became a commercial फ़ोर्स साथ groups जैसे Mötley crüe and ज़हर.
Underground दृश्यों produced an array of अधिक चरम, आक्रामक शैलियाँ : thrash मेटल broke into the मुख्यधारा साथ bands ऐसे as मेटालिका, मेगाडेथ, slayer, और Anthrax, while other शैलियाँ of the सबसे extreme subgenres of मेटल जैसे मौत मेटल और black metal remain subcultural phenomena.
चूंकि the mid-1990s, लोकप्रिय styles ऐसे as nu metal, which often incorporates तत्व of grunge and हिप हॉप ; and metalcore, which मिश्रणों extreme metal साथ हार्डकोर पंक, have further expanded the परिभाषा of the विधा.
the far-right ( भी known as the चरम सही ) refers to the highest उपाधि of rightism in right-wing politics.
दूर right राजनीती involves support of दमदार or complete सोशल hierarchy in समाज, और supports supremacy of certain individuals or समूह deemed to be innately superior or अस्तबलों जो हैं to be अधिक valued than those deemed to be innately inferior or अवांछनीय.
The दूर सही 's वकालत of supremacism is आधारित on कया its adherents perceive as स्वाभाविक विशेषताएँ of people कि can नहीं be changed.
इस stands as a पाइंट of difference साथ the centre-right 's attribution of behaviours, ऐसे as आलस्य or decadence, as the primary स्त्रोत of social inequalities.
the centre right—unlike the दूर right—claims that लोगों can समाप्त their behavioural हीनता through बदलना उनके आदतें and choices.
The असली far सही, which उभरा in फ़्रांस after the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति, refused to accept the French गणतंत्र और supported a counter-revolution to restore the फ्रेंच monarchy and aristocracy.
The दूर right is commonly संबद्ध साथ persons or समूह जो थाम चरम राष्ट्रवादी, xenophobic, जातिवाद, religious fundamentalist or प्रतिक्रियावादी दृश्य.
the सबसे extreme-right movements have pursued दमन and नरसंहार against समूह of लोगों on the आधार of their alleged हीनता.
Thomas hobbes of malmesbury ( 5 अप्रैल 1588 – 4 December 1679 ), in कुछ older ग्रन्थ थामस Hobbs of malmsbury, थी an अंग्रेज़ी philosopher, बेहतरीन ज्ञात आज for उसके कार्य on राजनैतिक philosophy.
His 1651 book Leviathan स्थापित the न्यास लिये most of पश्चिमी राजनैतिक दर्शनशास्त्र इससे the परिप्रेक्ष्य of सोशल contract सिद्धान्त.
hobbes थी a चैंपियन of absolutism लिये the sovereign, लकिन he also developed कुछ of the fundamentals of यूरोपीय liberal विचार : the सही of the individual ; the प्राकृतिक समता of all मेन ; the artificial अक्षर of the राजनैतिक अनुक्रम ( which led to the बाद distinction between civil society और the राज्य ) ; the दृश्य कि सब legitimate राजनैतिक power जरूर be `` representative '' and based on the consent of the लोगों ; and a उदार निर्वचन of law जिससे leaves people फ़्री to do whatever the law does नहीं explicitly forbid.
he थी एक of the founders of आधुनिक political दर्शनशास्त्र.
His समझना of इंसानो as being पदार्थ and गति, obeying the वही physical कानून as other matter और motion, remains influential ; और उसके account of इंसान nature as self-interested सहयोग, और of political समुदायों as होने आधारित upon a `` social अनुबंध `` remains one of the प्रमुख विषय of राजनैतिक दर्शनशास्त्र.
in addition to राजनैतिक philosophy, hobbes भी contributed to a विविध सरणी of अन्य fields, सहित history, भूगोल, the भौतिकी of gases, धर्मशास्त्र, आचार, and general philosophy.
Emotional प्रज्ञा ( EI ) is the क्षमता to पहचानो, assess, and control the भाव of oneself, of अन्य, and of समूह.
it can be विभाजित into क्षमता ei और trait EI.
क्षमता ei is प्रायः measured using अधिकतम प्रदर्शन tests and has stronger संबंध साथ traditional प्रज्ञा, whereas trait ei is usually measured using self-report questionnaires और has stronger relationships साथ personality.
आलोचनाओं have centered on whether ei is a real प्रज्ञा और whether it रै वृद्धिशील वैध over IQ और the बिग पाँच व्यक्तित्व traits.
आनुवंशिकता is the गुजर of traits to offspring from इसके अभिभावक or पूर्वज.
इस is the प्रक्रम by which an औलाद कोशिका or सजीव acquires or becomes predisposed to the विशेषताएँ of इसके जनक cell or सजीव.
through heredity, विसंगतियाँ exhibited by individuals can accumulate and कारण कुछ प्रजाति to evolve.
the पढ़ाई of आनुवंशिकता in biology is called आनुवंशिकी, जिससे शामिल the field of epigenetics.
For United राज्य individual income tax, समायोजित सकल income ( agi ) is total gross income ऋण विशिष्ट reductions.
taxable आय is समायोजित gross आय ऋण भत्तों for personal छूटों and itemized deductions.
लिये सबसे individual tax उद्देश्य, AGI is more relevant than gross income.
सकल आय is sales दाम of goods or प्रॉपर्टी, minus cost of the property sold, प्लस अन्य income.
it शामिल मजदूरी, ब्याज, dividends, कारोबार income, rental income, and सब अन्य प्रकार of income.
समायोजित gross आय is gross आय कम deductions इससे a business or rental activity और 21 other विशिष्ट वस्तुएं.
अनेक deductions ( e.g. medical expenses और विविध itemized deductions ) हैं limited based on a प्रतिशत of agi.
निश्चित phase outs, including those of निम्नतर कर rates and itemized deductions, are based on स्तर of AGI.
अनेक states आधार राज्य आय tax on agi साथ निश्चित deductions.
`` आलसी नजर '' is the तीसरा single इससे silversun pickups ' डेब्यू album Carnavas.
the band performed the song on the लेट दिखाएँ साथ दाउद लेटरमैन, The Tonight दिखाएँ साथ Jay Leno, Later साथ Jools Holland, and पिछला Call साथ कार्सन Daly.
the song is a playable track on Rock Band 2 और Guitar नायिका : संसार दौरे.
an वैकल्पिक संस्करण of the सोंग, with a length of 7:27, थी निभाई on XMU before the shorter version was निभाई on FM and अन्य XM चैनल्स.
This संस्करण थी प्रदर्शित on their demo CD ( which featured जल्दी versions of four tracks ).
A टेलीफोन उपसर्ग is the पहला नियत of अंक of a टेलीफोन क्रमांक ; in the उत्तर American क्रमांकन योजना countries ( देश कोड 1 ), it is the first तीन अंक of a seven-digit फोन number.
in अन्य देशों दोनो the उपसर्ग और the number may have अलग lengths.
It shows जिससे exchange the बाकी संख्याएँ refer to.
a पूरा टेलीफोन क्रमांक is usually बना up of country code ( required लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय calls only ), area कोड ( required लिये काल्स between टेलीफोन areas ), prefix, और सदस्य क्रमांक.
कुछ places restrict certain prefixes to fax संख्याएँ or cell फोन only ; in other places ऐसे समर्पित prefixes are नहीं प्रयुक्त.
as टेलीफोन technology advanced, the precise significance of the prefix became blurred in many स्थान ; 485 in London, uk, was एकबार the GULliver exchange, but now 44207485xxxx is बस considered एक of अनेक क्रमांक ब्लॉक served by the clken Kentish Town exchange ; 4420770703xx is another.
metformin ( bp, pronounced, ; originally sold as glucophage ) is an oral antidiabetic ड्रग in the biguanide क्लास.
It is the first-line ड्रग of चुनाव लिये the treatment of प्रकार 2 diabetes, in particular, in overweight and मोटे लोगों and those with normal गुर्दा फलन.
इसके use in गर्भकालीन मधुमेह has महरूम सीमित by safety concerns.
it is also प्रयुक्त in the उपचार of polycystic ovary सिंड्रोम, और रै been investigated लिये other रोगों where इंसुलिन resistance may be an important फ़ैक्टर.
metformin works by suppressing ग्लूकोज production by the liver.
metformin is the तभी antidiabetic drug कि रै महरूम conclusively दिखाया to prevent the cardiovascular जटिलताओं of मधुमेह.
it helps reduce ldl cholesterol and triglyceride levels, और is नहीं associated with वज़न gain.
, metformin is one of तभी दो मौखिक antidiabetics in the World स्वास्थ्य Organization Model List of Essential दवाइयाँ ( the अन्य होने glibenclamide ).
जब prescribed appropriately, metformin कल्याणकारी few adverse प्रभाव ( the most common is जठरांत्र परेशान ) और is associated with a low risk of hypoglycemia.
लैक्टिक acidosis ( a buildup of lactate in the blood ) can be a गंभीर concern in overdose and जब it is विहित to लोगों साथ contraindications, लकिन otherwise, there is no significant रिस्क.
पहला synthesized और मिला to reduce blood sugar in the 1920s, metformin was forgotten for the अगला दो दशकों as research shifted to insulin और अन्य antidiabetic दवाएँ.
ब्याज in metformin was rekindled in the late 1940s after अनेक reports that it could reduce रक्त sugar levels in people, and in 1957, फ्रेंच physician Jean Sterne प्रकाशित the पहला नैदानिक विचारण of metformin as a उपचार for मधुमेह.
It थी introduced to the संयुक्त किंगडम in 1958, Canada in 1972, और the United राज्य in 1995.
metformin is अभी believed to be the most widely prescribed antidiabetic ड्रग in the संसार ; in the संयुक्त राज्य अलोन, अधिक than 48 लाख prescriptions यहूद भर in 2010 लिये इसके generic formulations.
the माउंट rushmore नेशनल मेमोरियल is a मूर्तिकला carved into the ग्रेनाइट फेस of माउंट rushmore near Keystone, दक्षिण Dakota, in the संयुक्त States.
Sculpted by danish-american Gutzon borglum और उसके बेटे, lincoln borglum, माउंट Rushmore सुविधाएँ sculptures of the heads of four संयुक्त राज्य presidents : जार्ज वॉशिंगटन, Thomas Jefferson, Theodore रूज़वेल्ट और अब्राहम lincoln.
the संपूर्ण memorial कवर and is ऊपर समुद्र level.
the tallest पहाड़ in the region is harney शिखर ( ).
दक्षिण डकोटा historian दोने Robinson is credited साथ conceiving the idea of नक्काशी the likenesses of famous लोगों into the Black पहाड़ियाँ region of South Dakota in अनुक्रम to promote पर्यटन in the प्रदेश.
Robinson 's आरंभिक idea was to sculpt the Needles ; however, gutzon Borglum अस्वीकृत the needles site because of the ग़रीब quality of the ग्रेनाइट और दमदार विपक्ष इससे environmentalists और Native अमरीकी समूह.
वे settled on the माउंट Rushmore location, which also रै the लाभ of facing southeast लिये maximum sun एक्सपोज़र.
रॉबिन्सन wanted it to विशेषता western नायक जैसे लुईस और Clark, रेड बादल and भैंस विधेयक कोड़ी लकिन borglum decided the sculpture चाहिए have a अधिक national फ़ोकस, और chose the चार presidents जिनकी likenesses होता be carved into the पहाड़.
After securing federal funding, निर्माण on the memorial began in 1927, और the presidents ' चेहरों यहूद समाप्त between 1934 और 1939.
upon gutzon borglum 's death in March 1941, उसके बेटे Lincoln borglum took over निर्माण.
हालांकि the आरंभिक अवधारणा called for each president to be चित्रित इससे head to कमर, कमी of funding मजबूर construction to समाप्त in late अक्तूबर 1941.
the u.S. नेशनल Park सेवा took control of the memorial in 1933, जबकि it थी स्टिल अंतर्गत निर्माण, और रै प्रबंधित the memorial to the present दिन.
it attracts nearly तीन लाख लोगों annually.
Charvet dress shirt from the 1930s, norsk Folkemuseum, ओस्लो.
a shirt, dress कमीज़, button-front, button-front shirt, or button-up shirt is a garment साथ a कॉलर, a full-length खोलने at the front from the कॉलर to the हेम, और टाँक साथ cuffs.
शर्ट हैं predominantly प्रयुक्त by men, since women प्रायः पहनें blouses.
the सामने खोलने is fastened using buttons or studs, और the cuffs close साथ buttons or कफ कड़ी.
शर्ट हैं सामान्यतः बना from woven cloth, and हैं प्रायः accompanied by a jacket और टाई, लिये example with a सूट or formalwear, लकिन shirts हैं also worn more casually.
in अंग्रेजों English, पोशाक कमीज़ means specifically the more औपचारिक evening परिधान worn साथ black- or white- टाई, भी discussed नीचे.
कुछ of these औपचारिक शर्ट have stiff fronts and detachable collars attached साथ कॉलर studs.
The पद `` button-down '' ( which refers a प्रकार of कमीज़ जिससे रै a collar fastened bas by buttons ) is sometimes प्रयुक्त in error to लागू to all शर्ट ( साथ or बगैर buttoned bas छल्लों ), being प्रयुक्त as a synonym for `` button-up '' or `` button-front ''.
Administrative पेशेवर Day ( also ज्ञात as secretaries दिन or Admin दिन ) is an unofficial धर्मनिरपेक्ष अवकाश observed in अनेक countries to recognize the कार्य of secretaries, प्रशासनिक assistants, receptionists, और अन्य administrative support professionals.
in उत्तर अमेरिका, it is celebrated on the बुधवार of the पिछला पूरा सप्ताह of April ( April 24 in 2013 ).
In France it is मनाये on the तीसरा गुरुवार in April ( April 18 in 2013 ).
In ऑस्ट्रेलिया it is मनाये on the first शुक्रवार in may
धमाकेदार can be:
अक्खड़ धमाकेदार
Blast भट्टी
चट्टान blasting
निकोलस poussin ( ; 15 June 1594 – 19 November 1665 ) थी the अग्रणी चित्रकार of the शास्त्रीय फ्रेंच बरॉक style, हालांकि he खर्च most of his working life in रोम.
उसके work is characterized by स्पष्टता, logic, and order, and favors लकीर over color.
जबतक the 20th century he remained a प्रमुख प्रेरणा for such classically उन्मुख कलाकारों as Jacques-Louis दाउद, jean-auguste-dominique Ingres और पॉल cézanne.
he worked in रोम लिये a circle of अग्रणी collectors there और elsewhere, except लिये a छोटी period when कार्डिनल रिचलू ordered him back to France to serve as पहला Painter to the King.
Most of उसके works हैं इतिहास paintings of धार्मिक or पौराणिक विषय कि बहुत प्रायः have a विशाल landscape तत्व.
जैकी Keith Whitley ( जुलाई 1, 1954Stambler, इरविन, और grelun Landon ( 2000 ). - Country Music : The Encyclopedia. - नई यॉर्क : st. Martin 's Press. - p.533. - isbn 978-0-312-26487-1.—Carlin, रिचर्ड ( 2003 ). - देश म्यूज़िक : A biographical Dictionary. - नई यॉर्क : routledge - p.427. - isbn 978-0-415-93802-0.—larkin, Colin ( 1995 ). - The गिनीज Encyclopedia of Popular म्यूज़िक. - New York : स्टॉकटन दबायें - p.4462. - ISBN 978-0-85112-662-3.—stanton, स्कॉट ( 2003 ). - The Tombstone Tourist : संगीतकारों. - New यॉर्क : Pocket किताबे. - p.395. - ISBN 978-0-7434-6330-0.—hicks, जोकर. - `` Singer Keith whitley 's मेमोरी जिंदा Through गीतों, प्रेम in Home कस्बा ''. - the केंटकी पोस्ट. - September 25, 1991.— '' देश म्यूज़िक स्टार कैथ Whitley Dead at 33 ''. - Lexington herald-leader. - may 10, 1989.——hurst, जोकर. - `` whitley 's पिछला Days ''. - शिकागो Tribune. - may 14, 1989.— '' Alcohol मारता देश सिंगर कैथ Whitley ''. - United दबायें International. - ( c/o The San फ्रांसिस्को वृत्तान्त ). - may 10, 1989. — May 9, 1989 ), ज्ञात professionally as Keith whitley, थी an American देश music singer.
whitley 's brief करियर in मुख्यधारा देश म्यूज़िक lasted इससे 1984 जबतक his मौत in 1989, but he continues to influence an संपूर्ण generation of गायकों और songwriters.
he charted 19 singles on the बिलबोर्ड देश चार्ट, सहित पाँच लगातार Number ones : `` do n't Close अपना Eyes ``, `` When तुम Say nothing at All ``, `` i 'm no अजनबी to the Rain ``, `` i अचरज Do तुम सोचो of me `` and `` It ai n't nothin ' `` ( the पिछला two मरणोपरांत ).
statute of Grand duchy of Lithuania, written in Polish
A statute is a औपचारिक written enactment of a विधान authority कि governs a state, नगर, or county.
typically, statutes कमांड or prohibit something, or घोषित नीति.
The शब्द is often प्रयुक्त to फर्क विधि बना by legislative लाशें इससे मामला विधि, decided by न्यायालयों, और regulations जारी by सरकारी एजेंसियों.
statutes हैं sometimes referred to as विधान or `` ब्लैक अक्षर law. ''
as a सोर्स of विधि, statutes हैं माना primary प्राधिकार ( as opposed to द्वितीयक प्राधिकार ).
ideally सब statutes जरूर be in harmony साथ the आधारभूत law of the जमीन ( संवैधानिक ).
This शब्द is प्रयुक्त in contradistinction to the आम विधि.
statutes acquire उनके फ़ोर्स इससे the समय of their passage, however जबतक otherwise provided.
Statutes हैं of अनेक kinds ; namely, पब्लिक or निजी.
Declaratory or remedial.
अस्थाई or perpetual.
A अस्थाई statute is one which is सीमित in its duration at the समय of its enactment.
It continues in फ़ोर्स जबतक the time of इसके limitation has समाप्त, जबतक sooner repealed.
A perpetual statute is one लिये the फिराकर of जिससे वहीँ is no limited समय, हालांकि it may नहीं be expressly घोषित to be so.
if, however, a statute जिससे किया नहीं itself contain कोई limitation is to be governed by another जिससे is अस्थाई तभी, the पूर्व होगा भी be अस्थाई और dependent upon the existence of the latter.
पहले a statute becomes विधि in some देशों, it must be agreed upon by the highest कार्यपालिका in the सरकारी, and आखिरकार published as भाग of a code.
in many देशों, statutes हैं organized in topical इंतजाम ( or `` संहिताबद्ध '' ) भीतर publications पुकारा कोड, ऐसे as the संयुक्त States Code.
In many राष्ट्र statutory विधि is विशिष्ट इससे and अधीनस्थ to संवैधानिक law.
the external iliac धमनियों are दो major arteries जिससे bifurcate बंद the common iliac धमनियों अग्रवर्ती to the sacroiliac संयुक्त of the pelvis.
They proceed अग्रवर्ती और अवर साथ the medial किनारा of the psoas प्रमुख मांसपेशियां.
वे निकास the pelvic girdle posterior और inferior to the inguinal ligament about one third laterally from the प्रविष्ट पाइंट of the वंक्षण ligament on the pubic tubercle at जिससे पाइंट they हैं referred to as the नैया arteries.
The बाह्य iliac artery is प्रायः the artery used to संलग्न the renal धमनी to the प्राप्तकर्ता of a kidney प्रत्यारोपण.
Steam is a digital वितरण, digital अधिकारों management, एकाधिक and communications मंच विकसित by वाल्व Corporation.
it is used to वितरित games and सम्बन्धित मीडिया ऑनलाइन, इससे small स्वतंत्र डेवलपर to larger तन्त्र houses ; in अक्तूबर 2012, वाल्व expanded the सेवा to include non-gaming तन्त्र.
भाप provides the उपयोक्ता साथ संस्थापना और automatic प्रबन्धन of तन्त्र आरपार multiple computers, जातियाँ सुविधाएँ ऐसे as मित्रों lists और समूह, बादल saving, and in-game आवाज़ और chat कार्यक्षमता.
the software provides a freely available अनुप्रयोग programming interface, Steamworks, that डेवलपर can take लाभ of to integrate many of भाप 's functions within their software products, सहित नक़ल protection, नेटवर्किंग and matchmaking, in-game उपलब्धियाँ और micro-transactions, और support for user-created सामग्री through भाप Workshop.
हालांकि initially विकसित लिये उपयोग on microsoft खिड़कियाँ, the client रै expanded to शामिल os x और लिनक्स संस्करण, और क्लाइंट with limited कार्यक्षमता on the प्लेस्टेशन 3 console और for both आईओएस and एंड्रॉइड मोबाईल डिवाइस.
In addition to होने a सेंट्रल हब लिये गेमिंग software, Valve has created a version of भाप with altered कार्यक्षमता to be प्रयुक्त in स्कूलों for शैक्षणिक तन्त्र, सहित a परिवर्धित संस्करण of Portal 2 लिये teaching विज्ञान and नाजुक सोच lessons.
, there हैं nearly 2000 games available through भाप, and 54 लाख active user खाते.
As of जनवरी 2013, भाप रै देखी over 6.6 million संयुक्त players.
भाप रै an अनुमानित 50–70 % share of the डिजिटल distribution मार्केट लिये video खेल.
The Steam लोगो is a stylised left-side fly-crank और rod इससे the walschaerts वाल्व गियर of a भाप लोकोमोटिव.
जेरी लुईस ( born March 16, 1926 ) is an अमरीकी हास्य, actor, सिंगर, film producer, screenwriter and फिल्मी निदेशक.
he is known लिये उसके slapstick ह्यूमर in film, टेलीविज़न, स्टेज and रेडियो.
he थी originally युग्म up साथ डीन मार्टिन in 1946, forming the famed कॉमेडी टोली of मार्टिन और लुईस.
in जोड to the duo 's लोकप्रिय nightclub कार्य, they स्ट्रक्चर in a कामयाब श्रेणी of comedy films for सर्वोपरि तस्वीरें.
Lewis is भी ज्ञात लिये उसके दान fund-raising telethons और स्थिति as national chairman लिये the Muscular dystrophy Association ( mda ).
लुईस रै won अनेक awards लिये lifetime उपलब्धियाँ from the अमरीकी कॉमेडी Awards, Los Angeles फिल्मी Critics संघ, and वेनिस फिल्मी पर्व, and he has दो stars on the हॉलीवुड चलना of Fame.
in 2005, he received the Governors पुरस्कार of the अकादमी of टेलीविज़न Arts & sciences Board of राज्यपालों, जिससे is the highest एमी Award presented.
On February 22, 2009, the अकादमी of Motion Picture Arts और sciences awarded लुईस the Jean Hersholt humanitarian पुरस्कार.
the Rhine ( ; ; ) is a European नदी that runs from the Swiss canton of Grisons in the southeastern Swiss Alps through जर्मनी और eventually बहती into the उत्तर Sea coast in the नीदरलैंड्स और is the twelfth longest नदी in Europe, at परिचय, साथ an औसत discharge of more than.
the राइन और the डेन्यूब formed सबसे of the उत्तरी अंतर्देशीय frontier of the रोमन साम्राज्य and, since those days, the Rhine has महरूम a vital और navigable waterway carrying trade और goods deep अंतर्देशीय.
it रै also served as a defensive feature and has महरूम the basis for क्षेत्रीय and अंतरराष्ट्रीय सीमायें.
the अनेक castles and प्रागैतिहासिक fortifications साथ the राइन गवाही to इसके महत्व as a waterway.
River ट्रैफ़िक could be stopped at these locations, usually for the purpose of collecting tolls, by the राज्य that controlled कि portion of the नदी.
श्री ( सिंहली )
Sri ( Devanagari : श्री, iast ; śrī ), also transliterated as Sree or Shri or श्री is a शब्द of संस्कृत उत्पत्ति, प्रयुक्त in the भारतीय उपमहाद्वीप as polite रूप of address समतुल्य to the अंग्रेज़ी `` mr. '' in written और बोला भाषा, or as a title of veneration लिये deities ( usually अनूदित as `` Holy '' ).
डिज़ाइन of जटिल structures जैसे the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Space Station needs in-depth understanding of Structural Analysis.
Civil अभियान्त्रिकी is a पेशेवर अभियान्त्रिकी अनुशासन that सौदे with the design, construction, and maintenance of the शारीरिक and naturally built environment, सहित works जैसे सड़कें, पुलों, नहरों, dams, and इमारतें.
सिविल अभियान्त्रिकी is the oldest engineering discipline after सैन्य अभियान्त्रिकी, and it थी defined to फर्क non-military engineering इससे सैन्य engineering.
It is traditionally broken into several sub-disciplines सहित पर्यावरणीय अभियान्त्रिकी, भूतकनीकी engineering, भूभौतिकी, भूगणित, कंट्रोल engineering, संरचनात्मक अभियान्त्रिकी, biomechanics, nanotechnology, परिवहन अभियान्त्रिकी, धरती विज्ञान, वायुमंडलीय sciences, forensic अभियान्त्रिकी, municipal or urban engineering, जल resources engineering, materials अभियान्त्रिकी, coastal अभियान्त्रिकी, surveying, और निर्माण अभियान्त्रिकी.
सिविल अभियान्त्रिकी takes प्लेस on all स्तर : in the पब्लिक sector इससे नगरपालिका through to नेशनल सरकारें, and in the private सेक्टर इससे व्यक्तिगत homeowners through to अंतरराष्ट्रीय companies.
Katherine dunham in तीव्र Revue
कैथरीन dunham in Studio
कैथरीन Dunham in Tropical Review Tropical पुनर्विलोकन, Martin Beck थिएटर
कैथरीन dunham wearing dance वेशभूषा
कैथरीन dunham in cumbia
Katherine Dunham ( जून 22, 1909 – may 21, 2006 ) थी an अमरीकी नर्तकी, choreographer, author, educator, और social activist.
dunham था एक of the most successful नृत्य careers in अमरीकी और यूरोपीय थिएटर of the 20th century, and निर्देशित उसके अपना नृत्य company for अनेक सालो.
She रै been called the `` matriarch और महारानी mother of ब्लैक नृत्य ''.
दौरान her heyday in the 1940s और 1950s, Dunham was प्रसिद्ध throughout यूरोपीय और लैटिन अमेरिका and was widely popular in the United राज्य, जहाँ the Washington Post पुकारा her `` नर्तकी कैथरीन the Great ''.
लिये almost तीस सालो she कायम the कैथरीन dunham नृत्य कम्पनी, the only self-supported American black dance troupe at कि समय, and over उसके long करियर she choreographed more than ninety individual dances.
dunham was an innovator in African-American आधुनिक नृत्य as खूब as a नेता in the field of dance मानवशास्त्र, or ethnochoreology.
Sphagnum is a genus of between 1510 और 3500 species of mosses, commonly called peat moss due to इसके prevalence in गीला habitats जहाँ it contributes to the formation of peat bogs and mires.
Sphagnum accumulations can store जल, चूंकि दोनो living और dead पौधे can hold large quantities of water अंदर उनके cells ; पौधे may थाम from 16-26 times as much जल as their dry weight depending on the प्रजाति.
the खाली cells सहायता retain जल in drier conditions.
Hence, as sphagnum मॉस grows, it can slowly स्प्रेड into drier शर्तें, forming larger peatlands, दोनो उठाया bogs and कंबल bogs.
ये peat accumulations तब provide आवास लिये a चौड़ी सरणी of peatland पौधे, सहित sedges और ericaceous shrubs, as खूब as orchids और carnivorous पौधे.
sphagnum और the peat formed from it do not decay readily because of the phenolic यौगिकों अंतःस्थापित in the मॉस 's कोशिका walls.
In addition, bogs, जैसे all wetlands, develop अवायवीय soil शर्तें, जिससे produces धीमा अवायवीय क्षय rather than aerobic सूक्ष्मजैविक action.
Peat moss can भी acidify इसके surroundings by लेने up cations, such as कैल्सियम and मैग्नीशियम, और releasing hydrogen ions.
Under the सही शर्तें, peat can accumulate to a depth of अनेक मीटर.
अलग प्रजाति of sphagnum have different tolerance हद लिये बाढ़ and pH, so कोई एक peatland may have a क्रमांक of अलग Sphagnum species.
व्यक्तिगत peat मॉस पौधे consist of a प्रमुख stem, with tightly arranged क्लस्टर of शाखा fascicles usually consisting of दो or three spreading branches और two to चार फांसी शाखाओं.
the top of the संयंत्र, or capitulum, has compact clusters of यंग शाखाओं.
Along the स्टेम are scattered leaves of विभिन्न shapes, named स्टेम leaves ; the shape varies according to species.
the पत्ते consist of दो kinds of कोशिकाएं ; छोटी, ग्रीन, जीना कोशिकाएं ( chlorophyllose cells ), और large, clear, संरचनात्मक, मुर्दे कोशिकाएं ( hyaline कोशिकाएं ).
the latter have the विशाल water-holding capacity.
The earliest संस्करण of the Network Card, जारी manually rather than through an APTIS machine.
The पहला aptis version of the संजाल Card.
इस was प्रयुक्त इससे the start of the APTIS era in 1986/1987 until खूब into the 1990s, as स्टॉक्स था to be used up despite the परिचय of the new-look orange-banded संस्करण in 1991.
The परिचय of the weekday minimum किराया condition in 2002 resulted in a minor बदलें : the रेड `` R '' shows कि this is the `` संशोधित '' संस्करण of the railcard.
इस संस्करण is स्टिल in उपयोग as of 2007.
The संजाल railcard is a छूट कार्ड introduced in 1986 by अंग्रेजों रेल, upon the सृष्टि of their संजाल SouthEast क्षेत्रफल around लंदन, इंग्लैण्ड.
the card is intended to प्रोत्साहित अवकाश सफर by rail by offering discounts for वयस्कों and accompanying children on a चौड़ी दायरा of off-peak किराए.
The दायरा of छूट उपलब्धियाँ, और the दाम of the card, have varied चूंकि कि time, लकिन the card रै सदा महरूम valid लिये a year 's unlimited उपयोग.
it can be खरीदा by कोई व्यक्ति aged 16 or over इससे any staffed नेशनल रेल स्टेशन or Rail Appointed Travel एजेंट, by completing an application रूप - no फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक पहचान or अन्य दस्तावेज़ीकरण is needed to ख़रीदे or उपयोग the कार्ड.
It is एक of a number of concessionary किराया schemes available on the अंग्रेजों रेल system.
the संयुक्त Nations ( un ; French : Organisation des राष्ट्र unies, ONU ) is the world 's largest, foremost, और सबसे prominent अंतरराष्ट्रीय organization.
The stated aims of the संयुक्त Nations शामिल promoting and facilitating cooperation in अंतरराष्ट्रीय विधि, अंतरराष्ट्रीय सुरक्षा, आर्थिक विकास, सोशल प्रगति, इंसान अधिकारों, civil rights, सिविल लिबर्टीज, राजनैतिक freedoms, democracy, और the उपलब्धि of lasting संसार peace.
the un was संस्थापित in 1945 after World War ii to replace the लीग of राष्ट्र, to stop युद्धों between देशों, और to provide a मंच for संवाद.
it contains अनेक subsidiary organizations to carry आउट its मिशन.
at इसके founding, the UN था 51 member राज्य ; as of 2011, there हैं 193.
इससे इसके offices around the संसार, the un and इसके specialized agencies decide on सत्य and administrative मुद्दे in नियमित meetings held throughout the साल.
the organization has six principal organs : the सामान्य सभा ( the main deliberative सभा ) ; the Security परिषद ( for deciding निश्चित resolutions लिये सलाम और सुरक्षा ) ; the आर्थिक और सोशल परिषद ( लिये assisting in promoting अंतरराष्ट्रीय आर्थिक and social सहयोग and विकास ) ; the Secretariat ( लिये providing अध्ययन, information, and सुविधाएं needed by the un ) ; the International अदालत of Justice ( the primary न्यायिक अंग ) ; और the संयुक्त राष्ट्र Trusteeship Council ( जिससे is currently निष्क्रिय ).
अन्य prominent UN प्रणाली एजेंसियों include the World Health Organization ( WHO ), the संसार खाना कार्यक्रम ( wfp ) और United Nations children 's Fund ( UNICEF ).
the UN 's सबसे prominent स्थिति is that of the office of secretary-general जिससे रै महरूम held by बैन ki-moon of दक्षिण Korea since 2007.
the संयुक्त Nations मुख्यालय resides in international territory in New यॉर्क City, साथ further main कार्यालयों at Geneva, नैरोबी, और वियना.
the संगठन is financed from assessed and voluntary योगदान from इसके member states, और रै six official languages : अरबी, चाइनीज, English, फ्रेंच, रूसी, और Spanish.
दक्षिण Beach, also nicknamed SoBe, is a पड़ोस in the नगर of Miami बीच, फ्लोरिडा, United राज्य, स्तिथ due east of मियामी नगर उचित between Biscayne Bay and the अटलांटिक समंदर.
the area encompasses सब of the barrier आइलैंड्स of मियामी बीच south of Indian क्रीक.
इस क्षेत्रफल थी the first खण्ड of Miami Beach to be विकसित, starting in the 1910s, धन्यवाद to the विकास प्रयत्न of कार्ल G. फिशर, the Lummus Brothers, and जॉन S. Collins, the latter whose निर्माण of the कॉलिन्स सेतु provided the पहला vital जमीन link between मेनलैंड मियामी and the समुद्रतट.
The क्षेत्रफल रै गए through numerous कृत्रिम and natural परिवर्तन over the years, सहित a booming regional economy, increased पर्यटन, and the 1926 hurricane, जिससे नष्ट much of the area.
as of 2010, परिचय 39,186 निवासियों सजीव in दक्षिण बीच.
the संयुक्त राज्य presidential चुनाव of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, held on मंगलवार, November 8, 1960.
The Republican पार्टी मनोनीत incumbent Vice-President रिचर्ड निक्सन, while the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी nominated जॉन F. Kennedy, सीनेटर इससे मैसाचुसेट्स.
the लाज़िम अध्यक्ष, Republican ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर, थी not eligible लिये re-election बाद serving the maximum दो शर्तें allowed by the twenty-second amendment.
Kennedy was elected साथ a सीसे of 112,827 मत, or 0.17 % of the लोकप्रिय vote, giving उसे a victory of 303 to 219 in the Electoral College, the closest चूंकि 1916.
This थी the पहला election in जिससे all पचास of the current संयुक्त States participated.
a क्रमांक of कारकों बताइये क्यों the चुनाव थी so close.
Kennedy gained since there थी an आर्थिक मंदी जिससे hurt the लाज़िम रिपब्लिकन, और he had the लाभ of 17 लाख अधिक पंजीकृत डेमोक्रेट than republicans.
furthermore, the new मत कि कैनेडी gained among catholics almost neutralized the new मत Nixon gained among protestants.
कैनेडी 's campaigning skills decisively outmatched निक्सन 's.
in the समाप्त, निक्सन 's emphasis on उसके experience carried छोटी वज़न, and he wasted energy by campaigning in सब 50 राज्य instead of concentrating on the झूले राज्य.
कैनेडी प्रयुक्त his विशाल, well-funded campaign organization to जीत the नामांकन, सुरक्षित endorsements, and, साथ the सहायता of the last of the big-city bosses, to मिलेंगी आउट the vote in the big cities.
he relied on कार्यशील mate lyndon B. Johnson to hold the South and प्रयुक्त टेलीविज़न effectively.
इस election is notable as being the first time in u.S. इतिहास that दो sitting u.s. Senators ( कैनेडी and Johnson ) यहूद निर्वाचित as अध्यक्ष and vice-president, a घटना that has महरूम repeated once, by Barack Obama और Joe Biden in 2008 ( in both cases, the अध्यक्ष was the younger, more जूनियर senator ).
a poster लिये a c. 1884 अमरीकी उत्पादन of मैकबेथ, अभिनीत Thomas W. Keene.
चित्रित, काउंटर clockwise from top-left, हैं : Macbeth और Banquo meet the witches ; बस बाद the murder of डंकन ; banquo 's ghost ; Macbeth duels macduff ; and मैकबेथ.
Macbeth is a खेल written by William शेक्सपियर.
It is considered one of his darkest और सबसे शक्तिशाली tragedies.
नियत in Scotland, the play dramatizes the corroding मनोवैज्ञानिक और राजनैतिक effects उत्पादित जब its protagonist, the स्कॉटिश रब मैकबेथ, chooses evil as the रास्ता to fulfill his ambition लिये शक्ति.
he commits regicide to become किंग और तब furthers उसके moral descent साथ a शासनकाल of murderous terror to stay in शक्ति, आखिरकार plunging the country into civil युद्ध.
In the समाप्त, he loses everything कि देता meaning और purpose to his जीवन पहले losing उसके जीवन itself.
The खेल is believed to have been लिखा between 1603 और 1607, और is सबसे commonly दिनाँक 1606.
the earliest account of a प्रदर्शन of what थी probably शेक्सपियर 's play is अप्रैल 1611, when Simon forman अंकित seeing ऐसे a खेल at the Globe थिएटर.
It थी first प्रकाशित in the Folio of 1623, संभवतः इससे a संकेत किताब.
It was सबसे संभावित written दौरान the शासनकाल of James I, जो था महरूम जेम्स VI of स्कॉटलैंड पहले he succeeded to the अंग्रेज़ी throne in 1603.
जेम्स was a संरक्षक of Shakespeare’s एक्टिंग कम्पनी, and of सब the plays Shakespeare लिखा दौरान James’s reign, मैकबेथ most clearly reflects the playwright’s relationship साथ the sovereign.
मैकबेथ is shakespeare’s shortest त्रासदी, और tells the story of a वीर Scottish general नामित Macbeth जो receives a prophecy from a trio of witches कि एक दिन he होगा become किंग of स्कॉटलैंड.
खपत by ambition and spurred to कार्रवाई by his wife, Macbeth murders King डंकन और takes the सिंहासन लिये himself.
उसके शासनकाल is racked साथ guilt and paranoia, and he soon becomes a tyrannical शासक as he is मजबूर to कमिट more और more हत्याएं to protect खुद इससे enmity and suspicion.
The bloodbath swiftly takes Macbeth और Lady मैकबेथ into realms of arrogance, madness, and मौत.
शेक्सपियर 's source लिये the त्रासदी is the खाता of King मैकबेथ of Scotland, macduff, और Duncan in Holinshed 's क्रॉनिकल्स ( 1587 ), a history of England, स्कॉटलैंड and Ireland familiar to Shakespeare और उसके contemporaries, although the कार्यक्रम in the play differ extensively इससे the history of the real मैकबेथ.
In the बैकस्टेज world of theatre, some believe that the खेल is शापित, and होगा नहीं जिक्र इसके title aloud, referring to it instead as `` the स्कॉटिश खेल ``.
over the कोर्स of अनेक सदियां, the play रै attracted some of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध अभिनेताओं to the roles of मैकबेथ and महिला मैकबेथ.
it रै been adapted to film, टेलीविज़न, opera, novels, कॉमिक किताबे, और other media.
the मिल्टन Hershey School is a private philanthropic ( pre-K through 12 ) boarding school in hershey, पेन्सिलवेनिया.
Originally नामित the Hershey औद्योगिक School, the institution was संस्थापित and funded by चॉकलेट उद्योगपति मिल्टन snavely Hershey और उसके wife, Catherine Sweeney Hershey.
The स्कूल थी originally स्थापित for impoverished, स्वस्थ, caucasian, पुरूष अनाथ, while आज it serves students of विभिन्न पृष्ठभूमि.
the मिल्टन hershey स्कूल विश्वास, जिससे निधि the स्कूल, owns controlling interest in the Hershey Company and owns the hershey entertainment और रिसॉर्ट Company ( HERCO ) जिससे oversees many of the क्षेत्रफल hotels साथ साथ a theme park called hersheypark.
With over six अरब डॉलर in एसेट, the मिल्टन hershey School is one of the wealthiest स्कूलों in the world.
the स्कूल is overseen by a फलक of प्रबंधक.
the स्कूल फिलहाल serves 1,818 students, और plans to grow to 2,100 students by 2013.
a member of कोर : गठबन्धन for आवासीय शिक्षा, it is the largest residential शिक्षा program in the us.
epub may refer to:
EPUB, a free and open e-book standard
इलेक्ट्रॉनिक आलेख, articles in scholarly जर्नल्स or मैगज़ीन that can be पहुँचा via इलेक्ट्रॉनिक हस्तांतरण
The नियंत्रित substances अधिनियम ( सीएसए ) थी enacted into विधि by the कॉंग्रेस of the संयुक्त राज्य as Title II of the Comprehensive ड्रग गाली Prevention और कंट्रोल अधिनियम of 1970.
the CSA is the संघीय u.S. ड्रग policy under जिससे the manufacture, importation, कब्ज़ा, उपयोग and distribution of निश्चित substances is regulated.
The अधिनियम भी served as the नेशनल implementing विधान लिये the सिंगल सम्मेलन on narcotic Drugs.
the विधान निर्मित पाँच Schedules ( classifications ), साथ varying योग्यता लिये a पदार्थ to be included in प्रत्येक.
Two federal एजेंसियों, the Drug Enforcement Administration और the Food and ड्रग प्रशासन, determine जिससे substances हैं added to or removed from the various schedules, हालांकि the statute passed by Congress निर्मित the initial listing, और Congress रै sometimes अनुसूचित अन्य substances through legislation such as the Hillory J. Farias and Samantha Reid date-rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of 2000, जिससे placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule i. Classification decisions हैं जरूरी to be made on मापदण्ड सहित संभावित for abuse ( an अपरिभाषित पद ), currently accepted चिकित्सा use in treatment in the संयुक्त States, and international treaties.
Second-language acquisition or second-language सीखना is the प्रक्रम by which लोगों learn a second भाषा.
Second-language acquisition ( प्रायः abbreviated to sla ) also refers to the scientific अनुशासन devoted to अध्ययन that process.
दूसरी भाषा refers to any language सीखे in addition to a व्यक्ति 's first language ; हालांकि the concept is नामित second-language acquisition, it can also चरितार्थ the learning of third, चौथी, or subsequent भाषाएं.
second-language acquisition refers to what learners do ; it करता नहीं refer to practices in भाषा teaching.
The अकादमिक discipline of second-language acquisition is a subdiscipline of लागू भाषाविज्ञान.
It is broad-based and relatively नई.
as खूब as the विभिन्न शाखाओं of linguistics, second-language acquisition is भी closely related to मनोविज्ञान, संज्ञानात्मक psychology, and शिक्षा.
to पृथक the अकादमिक discipline इससे the learning process itself, the terms second-language अधिग्रहण शोध, second-language studies, और second-language अधिग्रहण studies हैं भी used.
SLA शोध began as an interdisciplinary field, and क्युकी of इस it is मुश्किल to पहचानो a precise starting date.
however, it does appear to have विकसित a great सौदे चूंकि the mid-1960s.
The term अधिग्रहण was originally प्रयुक्त to emphasize the अवचेतन प्रकृति of the सीखना प्रक्रम, लकिन in हाल सालो सीखना और अधिग्रहण have become largely synonymous.
second-language अधिग्रहण can चरितार्थ विरासत language सीखना, but it does नहीं usually चरितार्थ bilingualism.
सबसे sla शोधकर्ताओं देखिए bilingualism as being the समाप्त result of learning a language, नहीं the process itself, और देखिए the पद as referring to native-like fluency.
लेखक in fields such as शिक्षा और मनोविज्ञान, however, प्रायः use bilingualism loosely to refer to all फ़ॉर्म of बहुभाषिकता.
Second-language अधिग्रहण is भी नहीं to be contrasted साथ the acquisition of a विदेशी भाषा ; बल्कि, the सीखना of second languages and the learning of foreign भाषाएं involve the वही आधारभूत प्रक्रियाओं in अलग हालातs..
वहीँ has महरूम much debate about exactly कैसा भाषा is सीखे, और अनेक मुद्दे are स्टिल unresolved.
There are अनेक theories of second-language अधिग्रहण, लकिन none are accepted as a पूरा explanation by सब SLA researchers.
due to the interdisciplinary nature of the फ़ील्ड of second-language acquisition, इस is नहीं expected to happen in the foreseeable भविष्य.
Forbes सूची of अरबपतियों is an सालाना रैंकिंग of the संसार 's wealthiest लोगों, compiled and प्रकाशित by फोर्ब्स, an अमरीकी नेशनल कारोबार पत्रिका.
the total जाल लायक of प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत on the सूची is अनुमानित, in United राज्य डॉलर, based on उनके एसेट और हिसाब for कर्ज़.
the list तभी represents प्रत्येक person 's valuation on a single day, due to रोज़ fluctuations among exchange rates और भण्डार valuations.
the संयुक्त राज्य रहस्य Service is a u.S. federal विधि enforcement एजेंसी कि is भाग of the संयुक्त राज्य Department of Homeland Security.
The sworn members are विभाजित among the खास एजेंटों and the uniformed प्रभाग.
Until March 1, 2003, the Service was part of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of the राजकोष.
The u.S. रहस्य सेवा रै two distinct क्षेत्रों of responsibility:
Financial Crimes, covering मिशन such as रोकथाम और छानबीन of counterfeiting of U.S. currency और U.S. राजकोष securities, और छानबीन of प्रमुख fraud.
सुरक्षा, which entails ensuring the सुरक्षा of वर्तमान और former नेशनल नेताओ and their परिवारों, ऐसे as the President, पास्ट presidents, वाइस presidents, presidential उम्मीदवार, visiting heads of राज्य, and विदेशी embassies ( per an agreement साथ the u.S. State Department 's Bureau of राजनयिक सुरक्षा ( DS ) दफ्तर of विदेशी मिशन ( ofm ), इत्यादि. )
the Secret सेवा 's आरंभिक responsibility was to investigate counterfeiting of u.S. करेंसी, जिससे थी अनियंत्रित following the U.S. सिविल War.
the agency then evolved into the संयुक्त राज्य ' first घरेलू intelligence and counterintelligence एजेंसी.
Many of the agency 's मिशन were later लिया over by subsequent agencies ऐसे as the संघीय ब्यूरो of Investigation ( एफबीआई ), ब्यूरो of Alcohol, तम्बाकू, firearms और Explosives ( ATF ), Immigration और कस्टम Enforcement ( बर्फ ), और आतंरिक Revenue सेवा ( irs ).
`` Me and bobby mcgee '' is a सोंग लिखा by क्रिस kristofferson और फ्रेड Foster, originally performed by रोजर मिलर.
अन्य performed the सोंग बाद, including kristofferson himself, and janis Joplin who अव्वल the u.S. singles चार्ट साथ the song in 1971 बाद उसके death, बनाना the सोंग the दूसरी posthumous number-one सिंगल in u.S. चार्ट इतिहास बाद `` ( sittin ' on ) The Dock of the खाड़ी `` by ओटिस Redding.
फ्रैंकलिन delano रूज़वेल्ट ( or ; जनवरी 30, 1882 – April 12, 1945 ), also known by his आद्याक्षर, fdr, was the 32nd अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य ( 1933–1945 ) and a सेंट्रल फिगर in world कार्यक्रम दौरान the mid-20th सदी, अग्रणी the United राज्य during a समय of worldwide economic depression and कुल युद्ध.
a प्रबल नेता of the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी और the तभी अमरीकी अध्यक्ष निर्वाचित to more than दो शर्तें, he निर्मित a New Deal Coalition कि realigned American राजनीती बाद 1932, as उसके domestic policies defined अमरीकी liberalism लिये the middle तीसरा of the 20th सदी.
साथ the bouncy लोकप्रिय सोंग `` प्रसन्न दिनों हैं यहाँ again `` as उसके अभियान थीम, FDR defeated incumbent रिपब्लिकन Herbert हूवर in नवम्बर 1932, at the गहराई of the Great अवसाद.
सक्रिय by उसके निजी victory over पोलियो, FDR 's unfailing आशावाद and activism contributed to a नवीकरण of the national spirit.
he worked closely with British Prime मंत्री विंस्टन चर्चिल और Soviet सामान्य Secretary जोसेफ स्टालिन in अग्रणी the allies विरूद्ध जर्मनी and जापानी in World War II, and restoring समृद्धि to the स्वदेश 's economy.
In his पहला सौ दिनों in office, जिससे began March 4, 1933, रूज़वेल्ट पथप्रदर्शन major विधान and issued a profusion of कार्यपालिका आदेश that instituted the New सौदे —a किस्में of कार्यक्रम designed to produce राहत ( government कार्य लिये the बेरोजगार ), रिकवरी ( economic विकास ), और reform ( through विनियमन of वॉल Street, banks और transportation ).
the economy improved rapidly इससे 1933 to 1937, but then relapsed into a गहन मंदी.
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his packing the परम् Court or गुजर any considerable विधान ; it abolished अनेक of the relief कार्यक्रम जब unemployment diminished दौरान World युद्ध II.
सबसे of the regulations on कारोबार यहूद ended about 1975–85, मगर लिये the regulation of Wall गली by the Securities and एक्सचेंज Commission, जिससे still exists.
साथ साथ several smaller कार्यक्रम, major surviving कार्यक्रम शामिल the संघीय जमा बीमे निगम, जिससे थी created in 1933, और सोशल Security, जिससे कॉंग्रेस passed in 1935.
As संसार युद्ध ii loomed बाद 1938, with the जापानी invasion of चीन and the आक्रामकता of नाजी जर्मनी, fdr दिया strong राजनयिक और वित्तीय support to चीन और Great ब्रिटेन, जबकि बाकी officially neutral.
उसके goal थी to make America the `` Arsenal of लोकतंत्र `` which होता सप्लाई munitions to the allies.
in कूच 1941, Roosevelt, with Congressional स्वीकृति, provided lend-lease सहायता to the countries लड़ against नाजी Germany साथ ब्रिटेन.
साथ very दमदार national support, he बना war on जापानी and जर्मनी after the जापानी आक्रमण on पर्ल हार्बर on दिसम्बर 7, 1941, कॉलिंग it a `` तिथि जिससे होगा सजीव in infamy ``.
He पर्यवेक्षित the mobilization of the U.S. economy to support the अलाइड युद्ध प्रयत्न.
as an active सैन्य नेता, रूज़वेल्ट implemented an overall युद्ध strategy on दो fronts कि ended in the शिकस्त of the Axis शक्तियां और the विकास of the world 's पहला अणु bomb.
in 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese American नागरिकों.
बेरोजगारी dropped to 2 %, राहत programs largely ended, और the औद्योगिक economy grew rapidly to नई हाइट्स as millions of लोगों स्थानांतरित to नई jobs in युद्ध centers, और 16 लाख men and 300,000 महिलाओं were drafted or volunteered for military service.
Roosevelt dominated the American राजनैतिक झाँकी not only दौरान the बारह सालो of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी, लकिन also for दशकों afterward.
He orchestrated the realignment of voters कि created the पांचवां Party प्रणाली.
FDR 's New सौदे गठबन्धन united मजदूर संघ, बिग नगर मशीने, white ethnics, अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी and ग्रामीण श्वेत Southerners.
he also influenced the later सृष्टि of the United राष्ट्र and bretton Woods.
रूज़वेल्ट is consistently rated by scholars as one of the शीर्ष three U.S. राष्ट्रपतियों, साथ साथ Abraham lincoln और जार्ज वॉशिंगटन.
a liberal डेमोक्रेट, रूज़वेल्ट पारिभाषित his ideological स्थिति as `` a छोटी बाएँ of बीच. ''
मारा Salvatrucha ( commonly abbreviated as MS, मारा, और MS-13 ) is a transnational दण्ड गिरोह that originated in लॉस Angeles and रै spread to other भाग of the संयुक्त States, Canada, मैक्सिको, और सेंट्रल America.
the majority of the गिरोह is ethnically composed of सेंट्रल Americans and active in शहरी और suburban क्षेत्रों.
In the u.S., the ms-13 रै an especially भारी presence in लॉस एंजिल्स County and the San Francisco Bay क्षेत्रफल in उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया ; the वॉशिंगटन, d.C. metropolitan areas of Fairfax काउंटी, वर्जिनिया, मोंटगोमरी काउंटी, Maryland, and Prince जार्ज 's काउंटी, मेरीलैंड ; long Island, नई यॉर्क ; the बोस्टन, मैसाचुसेट्स area ; शेर्लोट, North कैरोलिना ; और Houston, Texas.
वहीँ is भी a उपस्थिति of ms-13 in टोरंटो, Ontario, कनाडा.
सदस्यों of MS फर्क themselves by टैटू covering the देह and भी often the फेस, as खूब as the use of उनके अपना चिह्न भाषा.
They are बदनाम लिये उनके use of violence और a subcultural moral code that predominantly consists of merciless revenge and cruel retributions.
इस क्रूरता of the विशिष्ट सदस्यों of the `` maras '' or `` mareros '' अर्जित उन्हें a path to be recruited by the sinaloa कार्टेल battling विरूद्ध लॉस zetas in an जारी drug war south of the United राज्य border.
उनके wide-ranging activities have drawn the ध्यान of the एफबीआई and Immigration and कस्टम प्रवर्तन, who have initiated wide-scale छापे विरूद्ध ज्ञात और suspected gang members – netting hundreds of रखवाले आरपार the country.
हड्डियों is an अमरीकी crime comedy-drama टेलीविज़न series कि premiered on the फॉक्स संजाल in the United राज्य on सितंबर 13, 2005.
the दिखाएँ is based on forensic मानवशास्त्र और forensic पुरातत्व, साथ each episode focusing on an एफबीआई मामला file concerning the mystery behind इंसान remains brought by एफबीआई खास एजेंट Seeley Booth ( दाउद boreanaz ) to the forensic anthropologist Dr. Temperance `` हड्डियों '' Brennan ( Emily deschanel ).
the rest of the main cast शामिल michaela conlin, T. J. thyne, eric millegan, tamara Taylor, Jonathan एडम्स, and जॉन फ्रांसिस Daley.
निर्मित by Hart hanson, the श्रेणी is बहुत loosely based on the life और कृतियाँ of उपन्यासकार और forensic anthropologist Kathy reichs, जो भी produces the show.
इसके शीर्षक character, Temperance ब्रेनन, is नामित बाद the protagonist of Reichs ' crime अनोखा series.
Conversely, dr. Brennan writes कामयाब रहस्य novels आधारित around a fictional ( in the Bones universe ) forensic anthropologist नामित कैथी reichs.
हड्डियों is a संयुक्त उत्पादन by जोसेफसन Entertainment, Far Field प्रोडक्शन्स and 20th सदी फॉक्स टेलीविज़न.
the श्रेणी has समाप्त airing its आठवीं ऋतु and रै महरूम नवीनीकृत लिये a ninth ऋतु.
सुपर Bowl xxv थी an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल game between the अमरीकी Football सम्मेलन ( AFC ) चैंपियन Buffalo बिल्स and the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल Conference ( nfc ) champion नई यॉर्क Giants to decide the National फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( NFL ) चैंपियन for the 1990 ऋतु.
The दिग्गज पराजित the बिल्स by the स्कोर of 20–19, जीतना their second कभी Super कटोरी.
it is the only सुपर कटोरी decided by one पाइंट.
the game थी आयोजित at tampa स्टेडियम in tampa, फ्लोरिडा, on जनवरी 27, 1991, during the height of the गल्फ War.
it थी thus निभाई अंतर्गत much patriotic fervor.
The proceedings शामिल a rousing rendition of `` the star-spangled ध्वज `` by Whitney ह्यूस्टन दौरान the pregame ceremonies.
the बिल्स and उनके विस्फोटक no-huddle ठोकर were बनाना उनके first Super कटोरी appearance after finishing the regular ऋतु साथ a 13-3 record, and अग्रणी the league in total अंक scored with 428.
In advancing to their second सुपर कटोरी, the दिग्गज भी posted a 13-3 नियमित ऋतु रिकार्ड, लकिन साथ a ball-control offense and a defense कि allowed a लीग कम 211 अंक.
the खेल is बेहतरीन remembered for Bills placekicker Scott नॉर्वुड 's last-second फ़ील्ड goal attempt जिससे went चौड़ी सही of the uprights, leading to a दिग्गज विजय, and starting a four-game losing streak in the सुपर Bowl for the Bills.
The Giants नियत a Super Bowl रिकार्ड holding कब्ज़ा of the ball for 40 minutes और 33 seconds.
नई यॉर्क भी overcame a 12-3 second-quarter deficit, and बना a 75-yard touchdown ड्राइव कि खपत a Super कटोरी record 9:29 बंद the क्लॉक.
Giants कार्यशील back ottis Anderson, who carried the बॉल 21 times for 102 गज and एक touchdown, थी नामित सुपर Bowl mvp.
he थी the first awardee to receive the newly named `` Pete rozelle Trophy '' ( नामित लिये the पूर्व कमिश्नर ).
एंडरसन भी अंकित one reception लिये सात yards.
मैल्कम X ( ; May 19, 1925february 21, 1965 ), born मैल्कम Little और भी ज्ञात as el-hajj Malik el-shabazz ( ), थी an African-American मुस्लिम minister और human अधिकारों activist.
To उसके admirers, he थी a साहसी एडवोकेट लिये the अधिकारों of अश्वेतों, a man जो indicted श्वेत America in the harshest शर्तें for इसके crimes विरूद्ध black अमेरिकी.
Detractors अभियुक्त उसे of preaching जातिवाद, black supremacy, and हिंसा.
he has been पुकारा एक of the महानतम and most influential अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी in इतिहास.
मैल्कम x 's father died—killed by श्वेत supremacists, it थी rumored—when he थी young, and at least one of उसके uncles थी lynched.
जब he थी 13, उसके mother थी लगाई in a दिमागी हॉस्पिटल, और he थी placed in a श्रेणी of फोस्टर घरों.
In 1946, at आयु 20, he गई to थाना for तोड़कर and entering.
In थाना, मैल्कम x became a सदस्य of the स्वदेश of islam ; बाद उसके parole in 1952, he quickly rose to become एक of इसके नेताओ.
लिये a दर्जन years, Malcolm X थी the public फेस of the controversial समूह, but मोहभंग साथ Nation of Islam head इलियास Muhammad led उसे to छोड़ the स्वदेश in कूच 1964.
After a काल of travel in Africa and the मध्य ईस्ट, he लौटे to the United राज्य, where he founded मुस्लिम Mosque, Inc. and the Organization of afro-american एकता.
in February 1965, less than a year after leaving the Nation of islam, he थी assassinated by three members of the group.
मैल्कम x 's expressed beliefs बदला substantially over time.
as a प्रवक्ता लिये the स्वदेश of Islam he taught black supremacy and advocated separation of ब्लैक और white अमेरिकी —in कंट्रास्ट to the सिविल rights गति 's emphasis on integration.
After तोड़कर with the स्वदेश of islam in 1964—saying of his संघ साथ it, `` i किया अनेक बाते as a [ ब्लैक ] Muslim कि i 'm sorry for now.
I थी a zombie तब... pointed in a निश्चित दिशा और told to कूच '' —and बनने a Sunni Muslim, he disavowed racism और expressed willingness to work with सिविल अधिकारों leaders, he जारी to emphasize Pan-Africanism, ब्लैक self-determination, और self-defense.
the तीसरा season of 90210, an American टेलीविज़न श्रेणी, premiered on सोमवार सितंबर 13, 2010.
The CW officially नवीनीकृत the show लिये a तीसरा ऋतु on फ़रवरी 16, 2010.
साथ the खुलासा of the networks fall 2010 schedule, वे घोषित उनके decision to move 90210 to सोमवार नाइट्स at 8:00 pm, as a lead-in to Gossip लड़की.
It premiered on September 13, 2010 and थी मिले साथ generally positive reviews from critics.
the ऋतु चयन up at the समाप्त of गर्मियाँ और focuses on the students वरिष्ठ साल of high school.
it फ़ॉलो adrianna 's वृद्धि to fame, a new संबंध between चांदी and navid और a उलझन टेडी who decides to खुलासा to his परिवार and मित्रों he is gay.
it भी सौदे with the aftermath of नाओमी क्लार्क 's उत्पीड़न.
नियमित डाल सदस्यों for the season शामिल shenae Grimes, ट्रिस्टन wilds, AnnaLynne mccord, रयान Eggold, जेसिका Stroup, माइकल steger, जेसिका lowndes, मैट lanter, गिलियन zinser, ट्रेवर डोनोवन और लोरी Loughlin.
Rebecca Sinclair जारी उसके भूमिका as कार्यपालिका producer लिये the ऋतु.
the season premiered to 1.96 लाख दर्शक और a 0.9 दरजा in the वयस्कों 18–49 demographic.
christmas-themed episode `` Holiday दीवानगी '', hit season highs in सब कुंजी demos with 2.1 in the CW 's निशाना डेमो of महिलाओं 18–34, a 1.4 in वयस्कों 18–34 और a 1.1 in वयस्कों 18–49.
it was also the most watched episode in over a साल with 2.2 लाख दर्शक ट्यूनिंग in.
the ऋतु finale aired on may 16, 2011.
The ऋतु averaged 1.75 million live दर्शक and a 0.9 वयस्कों 18–49 दरजा.
It थी released on dvd in the संयुक्त States on अगस्त 30, 2011.
एलिज़ाबेथ II ( एलिज़ाबेथ Alexandra मरियम ; born 21 अप्रैल 1926 ) is the संवैधानिक monarch of 16 sovereign राज्य, ज्ञात as the Commonwealth realms, and their territories और dependencies, और सिर of the 54-member राष्ट्रमंडल of Nations.
She is Supreme Governor of the Church of इंग्लैण्ड और, in some of उसके realms, carries the title of Defender of the आस्था as part of उसके full title.
On her accession on 6 February 1952, Elizabeth became सिर of the राष्ट्रमंडल और queen regnant of seven स्वतंत्र Commonwealth देशों : the संयुक्त Kingdom, Canada, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, New जीलैंड, दक्षिण Africa, Pakistan और ceylon.
इससे 1956 to 1992, the number of her realms varied as territories gained स्वतंत्रता and some realms became republics.
at present, in जोड to the first चार aforementioned countries, Elizabeth is महारानी of जमैका, Barbados, the बहामा, हरा, पापुआ नई गिनी, the सुलेमान Islands, Tuvalu, Saint लूसिया, Saint Vincent और the Grenadines, बेलीज़, अण्टीगुआ and Barbuda और संत किट्स और नेविस.
Her reign of सालो is फिलहाल the second longest लिये a अंग्रेजों monarch ; only महारानी विक्टोरिया has reigned longer at over 63 years.
Elizabeth was born in लंदन and शिक्षित privately at घर.
Her पिता acceded to the सिंहासन as George vi in 1936 on the abdication of उसके bhai Edward VIII, इससे which समय she was the वारिस presumptive.
वो began to undertake पब्लिक कर्तव्य during the दूसरी World युद्ध, in which she परोसा in the auxiliary territorial सेवा.
in 1947, वो शादीशुदा प्रिंस फिलिप, ड्यूक of Edinburgh, with जिसको वो रै चार children : चार्ल्स, Anne, एंड्रयू, and एडवर्ड.
Her राजतिलक सेवा took प्लेस in 1953 and थी the पहला to be televised.
the Queen 's many ऐतिहासिक visits and meetings शामिल a राज्य visit to the Republic of आयरलैंड और reciprocal विज़िट to and इससे the पोप.
the Queen has देखी प्रमुख constitutional परिवर्तन in उसके realms, ऐसे as devolution in the संयुक्त किंगडम and the patriation of the Canadian constitution.
टाइम्स of निजी significance have शामिल the births and marriages of उसके children, the births of her grandchildren, the प्रतिष्ठापन of the Prince of वेल्स, और the celebration of माइलस्टोन ऐसे as उसके Silver, Golden, and डायमंड jubilees in 1977, 2002, and 2012, respectively.
प्रमुख कार्यक्रम in the महारानी 's शासनकाल have शामिल the Troubles in Northern आयरलैंड, the falklands युद्ध, युद्धों with Iraq और the War in अफगानिस्तान.
There have been times of personal विषाद for उसके which शामिल the मौत of उसके पिता at 56, the हत्या of Prince Philip 's uncle, रब माउंटबेटन, the विश्लेषण of उसके children 's marriages in 1992 ( a साल deemed उसके annus horribilis ), the मौत in 1997 of उसके former daughter-in-law, Diana, Princess of Wales, और the deaths of her माँ and sister in 2002.
the Queen has occasionally faced severe press आलोचना of the royal परिवार and republican sentiments, लकिन support for the साम्राज्य और उसके निजी लोकप्रियता remain high.
the 2010 संयुक्त States सीनेट चुनाव in Florida took प्लेस on November 2, 2010 साथ साथ अन्य elections to the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट in other states as well as all चुनावों to the संयुक्त राज्य House of प्रतिनिधि and various राज्य and लोकल elections.
Republican मार्को Rubio, former Speaker of the Florida हाउस of प्रतिनिधि, defeated स्वतंत्र चार्ली Crist and Democrat kendrick नम्र in a three-way race.
एक term सीनेटर Mel मार्टिनेज थी निर्वाचित in a very बंद रेस against Democrat बेट्टी अरंडी in 2004 with 49 % of the vote.
Martinez announced on दिसम्बर 2, 2008 कि he होता नहीं तलाश re-election to the Senate, और होता इस्तीफा prior to the end of his पद.
in August 2009, Governor चार्ली Crist घोषित कि he होता नियुक्त his पूर्व मुख्य of स्टाफ, George lemieux, a Republican, to the सीनेट सीट being vacated by मार्टिनेज.
राज्यपाल crist publicly घोषित he थी कार्यशील for the सीट in mid-2009.
at the time he received many Republican समर्थन, ऐसे as the National रिपब्लिकन senatorial Committee, Martinez, and the 2008 रिपब्लिकन अध्यक्षीय nominee जॉन McCain.
उसके support of the अमरीकी Recovery और reinvestment अधिनियम of 2009 hurt his popularity among conservatives, and candidate मार्को Rubio surged.
in अप्रैल 2010 Crist announced he would drop आउट of the Republican प्राथमिक और run as an स्वतंत्र.
the National रिपब्लिकन senatorial कमेटी withdrew इसके endorsement of crist और demanded a refund of इसके campaign निधि कि it provided for the Crist campaign.
Congressman kendrick Meek थी the पहला Democrat to declare उसके intention to चलाएं.
सिकंदर snitker was the पहला member of the Libertarian Party on the ballot लिये सीनेटर in फ्लोरिडा 's इतिहास.
Satellite view of दोहा
Doha (, ' or ', वस्तुतः : `` the बिग पेड़ '' ) is the capital city of the state of क़तर.
स्तिथ on the coast of the Persian गल्फ,
it had a जनसांख्यिकी of 998,651 in 2008, and is also एक of the municipalities of Qatar.
दोहा is क़तर 's largest नगर, साथ over 60 % of the nation 's जनसांख्यिकी residing in दोहा or इसके surrounding उपनगरों, and is भी the आर्थिक केन्द्र of the country.
दोहा भी serves as the सीट of सरकारी of Qatar, which is शासित by शेख़ हमद bin खलीफा Al थानी.
Doha is घर to the Education City, an क्षेत्रफल devoted to research और शिक्षा.
दोहा थी the साईट of the first ministerial-level meeting of the Doha विकास गोलाकार of संसार व्यापार Organization negotiations.
the city of दोहा held the 2006 एशियाई खेल, which थी the largest एशियाई Games ever आयोजित.
दोहा भी hosted the 2011 Pan Arab Games and सबसे of the games at the 2011 afc एशियाई कप.
दोहा hosted the unfccc जलवायु Negotiations ( cop 18 ) दिसम्बर 2012 और will मेजबान a विशाल क्रमांक of the venues लिये the 2022 फीफा संसार कप.
The संसार Petroleum Council held the 20th World पेट्रोलियम सम्मेलन in Doha in दिसम्बर 2011.
paranasal sinuses are a समूह of चार युग्म air-filled स्पेसेस कि घेर the nasal cavity ( maxillary sinuses ), ऊपर the eyes ( frontal साइनस ), between the आँखें ( ethmoid साइनस ), और पीछे the ethmoids ( sphenoid साइनस ).
The साइनस हैं नामित for the facial हड्डियों in जिससे they हैं located.
झुकना निर्माण, झुकना एंटरप्राइज़, or lean उत्पादन, often बस, `` Lean, '' is a उत्पादन अभ्यास कि considers the व्यय of resources लिये any लक्ष्य अन्य than the सृष्टि of मान लिये the end customer to be अपव्यय, और thus a target लिये elimination.
working इससे the perspective of the customer जो consumes a product or सेवा, `` मान '' is पारिभाषित as कोई कार्रवाई or process कि a customer would be willing to अदा लिये.
Essentially, झुकना is centered on preserving value with कम work.
झुकना निर्माण is a management दर्शनशास्त्र निकला mostly from the Toyota उत्पादन System ( TPS ) ( hence the पद toyotism is also prevalent ) and identified as `` झुकना '' तभी in the 1990s.
TPS is renowned लिये इसके फ़ोकस on कटौती of the असली Toyota सात wastes to improve overall customer value, लकिन वहीँ हैं varying perspectives on कैसा this is best achieved.
the स्थिर विकास of टोयोटा, इससे a छोटी कम्पनी to the संसार 's largest automaker, रै केन्द्रित ध्यान on how it रै achieved this कामयाबी.
icarly logo
iCarly is an American sitcom कि airs on निकलोडियन, जिससे premiered on सितंबर 8, 2007.
निकलोडियन प्रचारित अनेक episodes so दूर such as `` iDo '', `` ihire an idiot '', `` iPity the Nevel '', `` iDate Sam & Freddie '', etc. as specials, despite उनके होने regular एपीसोड.
Every episode title begins साथ a निम्नतर मामला i which represents the अंतरजाल, as in `` icarly ''.
the show was nominated for an Emmy पुरस्कार लिये Outstanding children 's Program in 2009.
the series अभिनीत Miranda cosgrove as कार्ली शे, a 13-year-old जो becomes an अंतरजाल star.
the श्रेणी ended on नवम्बर 23, 2012 with the one-hour खास episode `` igoodbye ''.
a total of 7 seasons और 109 episodes यहूद ब्रॉडकास्ट.
The largest audience of the श्रेणी थी 11.2 लाख दर्शक, with the खास episode `` isaved अपना जीवन '' premiered in January 2010.
जब Carly ( Miranda cosgrove ) और उसके sassy बेहतरीन dost sam ( Jennette mccurdy ) अधिनियम funny at a school talent show ऑडिशन, tech-savvy Freddie ( Nathan kress ) टेपों it और पोस्ट it online बगैर telling उन्हें.
बाद seeing the girls ' दमदार रसायन and banter, the online दर्शक clamors लिये अधिक and the icarly वेबकास्ट is born.
जबकि grappling with typical issues of adolescence, कार्ली, sam, और Freddie ढूँढें out that they have भी become online हस्तियाँ as their दिखाएँ – जिससे सुविधाएँ हुनर प्रतियोगिताओं, recipes, problem-solving, and random नाचना – garners अंतरराष्ट्रीय accolades.
Carly lives in Seattle, वॉशिंगटन साथ उसके 26-year-old bhai और guardian स्पेंसर ( जेरी trainor ) और produces the दिखाएँ in a makeshift third-floor studio मचान in their apartment.
Their माँ has never been देखी or उल्लेखित, but their father, स्टीवन शे ( दाउद chisum ), is a U.S. एयर Force अधिकारी temporarily stationed on a पनडुब्बी, और is often उल्लेखित लकिन is only देखी in person during the श्रेणी finale episode, `` igoodbye ''.
Westlife यहूद an आयरिश लड़के बैंड जिससे formed in 1998 और disbanded in 2012.
originally हस्ताक्षरित by साइमन cowell और managed by लुई वाल्श, the group 's final line-up consisted of nicky Byrne, Kian egan, चिह्नित feehily and शेन filan.
Brian mcfadden थी a सदस्य इससे 1998 जबतक उसके departure in 2004.
westlife बेची over 50 million records विश्वव्यापी, a कुल that included स्टुडियो एल्बम, singles, वीडियो रिलीज, और संकलन एल्बम.
The group संचित 14 number-one singles in the United किंगडम ( the third-highest in UK history ), tying साथ चट्टान रिचर्ड और रैंकिंग बस पीछे the Beatles और Elvis प्रेस्ली.
They achieved a कुल of 26 शीर्ष ten singles over उनके 14-year करियर.
by 2010, westlife was सूचीबद्ध in the गिनीज संसार Records, as the UK 's top-selling एल्बम समूह of the 21st century.
They also won the रिकार्ड of the Year ( the तभी music पुरस्कार based on पब्लिक votes in the uk ) a record-breaking चार टाइम्स और in 2012, the Official चार्ट Company listed westlife 34th amongst the biggest-selling singles artists in British music इतिहास.
Despite उनके यूरोपीय and Asian कामयाबी, Westlife never प्रबंधित to ब्रेक into the u.S. मार्केट, achieving only एक hit सिंगल in 2000 : `` कसम It again ``.
in अक्तूबर 2011, westlife घोषित उनके इरादे to विभाजित in 2012, following their महानतम हिट्स Tour and the रिलीज of their महानतम हिट्स album.
The boyband 's final concerts यहूद held on 22 और 23 जून 2012 at croke पार्क Stadium in Dublin.
the first farewell concert, offering 85,000 टिकटें, sold आउट in a record-breaking 5 मिनट्स और the latter screened सजीव in cinemas worldwide.
Vitamin A is a group of nutritionally असंतृप्त hydrocarbons, जिससे शामिल retinol, retinal, retinoic एसिड and अनेक provitamin a carotenoids among जिससे beta-carotene is the most महत्वपूर्ण.
विटामिन a has multiple कृत्यों, it is important for growth और विकास, लिये the मेंटेनेंस of the immune प्रणाली और शुभ vision.
विटामिन a is needed by the retina of the नजर in the रूप of retinal, which combines साथ प्रोटीन opsin to form rhodopsin the light-absorbing अणु, कि is जरुरी लिये दोनो low-light ( scotopic दृष्टि ) और रंग vision.
विटामिन a भी कृत्यों in a बहुत different भूमिका as an irreversibly oxidized form of retinol ज्ञात as retinoic एसिड, which is an महत्वपूर्ण hormone-like growth फ़ैक्टर for epithelial और अन्य कोशिकाएं.
In foods of animal उत्पत्ति, the major form of विटामिन a is an ester, primarily retinyl palmitate, which is परिवर्तित to रेटिनॉल ( chemically an alcohol ) in the छोटी intestine.
the रेटिनॉल form कृत्यों as a storage form of the विटामिन, और can be converted to and इससे इसके visually active सुव्युद रूप, retinal.
the संबद्ध एसिड ( retinoic acid ), a metabolite कि can be irreversibly synthesized from vitamin A, has only partial vitamin A कार्यकलाप, और does नहीं फलन in the retina लिये the विज़ुअल cycle.
Retinoic एसिड is प्रयुक्त लिये विकास और सेल्यूलर differentiation.
सब फ़ॉर्म of vitamin A have a beta-ionone रिंग to which an isoprenoid chain is attached, called a retinyl group.
दोनो structural सुविधाएँ हैं अनिवार्य लिये vitamin activity.
the नारंगी रंजक of carrots – beta-carotene – can be represented as दो connected retinyl groups, जिससे are used in the देह to contribute to vitamin a स्तर.
alpha-carotene और gamma-carotene भी have a single retinyl समूह, जिससे दे उन्हें some विटामिन activity.
none of the अन्य carotenes have विटामिन कार्यकलाप.
The carotenoid beta- cryptoxanthin possesses an ionone समूह और has vitamin activity in humans.
Vitamin A can be found in two principal forms in भोजन :
Retinol, the form of विटामिन A absorbed when खाने एनिमल food स्त्रोत, is a पीला, fat-soluble substance.
चूंकि the pure दारू रूप is unstable, the vitamin is found in ऊतकों in a form of retinyl ester.
it is भी commercially उत्पादित और administered as esters such as retinyl acetate or palmitate.
the carotenes alpha-carotene, beta-carotene, gamma-carotene ; और the xanthophyll beta-cryptoxanthin ( all of जिससे contain beta-ionone बजती ), लकिन no other carotenoids, function as provitamin A in herbivores and omnivore पशु, जिससे possess the एंजाइम ( 15-15'-dioxygenase ) जिससे cleaves beta-carotene in the intestinal mucosa और converts it retinol.
In general, carnivores are ग़रीब converters of ionine-containing carotenoids, और pure carnivores ऐसे as बिल्लियों और ferrets lack 15-15'-dioxygenase और can नहीं convert any carotenoids to retinal ( resulting in none of the carotenoids होने फ़ॉर्म of vitamin a for ये प्रजाति ).
Selena मारी Gomez ( born July 22, 1992 ) is an American singer और actress.
वो बना her डेब्यू as a child अभिनेत्री in Barney & Friends.
in 2007, गोमेज़ came to prominence as a starring डाल सदस्य in the टेलीविज़न श्रेणी wizards of waverly प्लेस.
She signed to हॉलीवुड Records the following साल, और became the founder और lead सिंगर of the पॉप बैंड सेलिना Gomez & the झाँकी.
Their स्टुडियो albums चुंबन & Tell ( 2009 ), A Year बगैर Rain ( 2010 ), and जब the Sun goes bas ( 2011 ) were certified सुनहरा by the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ of America ( RIAA ) और have शाखित platinum-certified singles `` Naturally ``, `` Who says ``, and `` प्रेम तुम जैसे a Love Song ``.
After the release of टेलीविज़न films और उनके accompanying soundtracks, गोमेज़ बना her नाट्य फिल्मी डेब्यू in Ramona and Beezus in 2010 और starred in मोंटे कार्लो in 2011.
upon the निष्कर्ष of Wizards of waverly प्लेस और the अंतराल of Selena गोमेज़ & the झाँकी in 2012, वो focused on उसके फिल्मी करियर, serving as a voice अभिनेत्री in होटल transylvania और starring in वसन्त ब्रेकर्स the following year.
उसके डेब्यू सोलो एल्बम is tentatively scheduled to be released in गर्मियाँ 2013, और is preceded by its lead single `` Come & Get It ``.
बाहर of उसके कार्य in the entertainment उद्योग, गोमेज़ is शामिल in philanthropic क्रियाएँ through charity कार्य और various सोशल और पर्यावरणीय कल्याणकारी.
Tracie monique Spencer ( born July 12, 1976 ) is an अमरीकी r & B और पॉप singer-songwriter, अभिनेत्री, and model.
sacramento is the capital नगर of the u.S. राज्य of California और the सीट of सरकारी of Sacramento काउंटी.
it is स्तिथ at the confluence of the sacramento नदी और the American नदी in the northern portion of California 's expansive Central घाटी.
With an अनुमानित 2011 population of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest नगर in California और the 35th largest city in the संयुक्त States.
sacramento is the कोर सांस्कृतिक and economic बीच of the sacramento महानगर क्षेत्रफल which शामिल seven काउंटी साथ an estimated 2009 जनसांख्यिकी of 2,527,123.
इसके metropolitan क्षेत्रफल is the चौथी largest in California बाद the वृहद Los एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल, सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी Area, और the सैन डिएगो महानगर क्षेत्रफल, as खूब as the 25th largest in the United States.
sacramento was cited by Time पत्रिका as America 's most ethnically और racially एकीकृत city in 2002.
Sacramento became a नगर through the efforts of the स्विस अप्रवासी John sutter, Sr., his son जॉन sutter, Jr., and James W. Marshall.
sacramento grew जल्दी thanks to the protection of Sutter 's फोर्ट, which थी established by sutter in 1839.
दौरान the कैलिफ़ोर्निया सुनहरा फटाफट, sacramento was a major वितरण पाइंट, a commercial and agricultural center, और a टर्मिनस for wagon trains, stagecoaches, riverboats, the telegraph, the Pony एक्स्प्रेस, and the First transcontinental रेलरोड.
कैलिफ़ोर्निया State University, Sacramento, अधिक commonly ज्ञात as sacramento State or सैक राज्य, is the largest local विश्वविद्यालयों.
it is एक of the twenty-three campuses of the California State विश्वविद्यालयों प्रणाली.
Drexel University sacramento is स्तिथ in शहर, sacramento.
University of the Pacific 's McGeorge स्कूल of विधि is located in the Oak पार्क पड़ोस.
in जोड, the विश्वविद्यालयों of California, डेविस is स्तिथ in आसपास डेविस, वेस्ट of the पूंजी.
The UC Davis Medical बीच, a world-renowned शोध hospital, is स्तिथ in the city of Sacramento.
मेमोरियल दिन is a United राज्य संघीय holiday जिससे occurs every साल on the फाइनल सोमवार of may.
Memorial Day is a दिन of remembering the men and महिलाओं जो died while सेवारत in the संयुक्त States हथियारबंद शक्तियां.
formerly ज्ञात as सजावट दिन, it originated after the अमरीकी Civil युद्ध to commemorate the संघ और confederate सैनिको जो died in the सिविल युद्ध.
by the 20th सदी Memorial Day था महरूम extended to honor सब अमेरिकी who have died in सब wars.
It typically marks the start of the गर्मियाँ अवकाश season, जबकि मजदूर Day marks इसके समाप्त.
Many लोगों विज़िट कब्रिस्तान और memorials, विशेषकर to honor those जो have died in military सेवा.
Many स्वयंसेवक प्लेस an American ध्वज on प्रत्येक grave in नेशनल कब्रिस्तान.
by the early 20th सदी, मेमोरियल Day was an occasion for अधिक सामान्य expressions of मेमोरी, as लोगों visited the क़ब्रों of their मृतक रिश्तेदारों in church कब्रिस्तान, whether they था served in the सैन्य or नहीं.
it also became a long weekend increasingly devoted to खरीदारी, परिवार gatherings, आतिशबाजी, यात्राएँ to the beach, and नेशनल media कार्यक्रम.
सालाना Decoration दिनों लिये particular कब्रिस्तान हैं आयोजित on a संडे in late वसन्त or early summer in कुछ rural areas of the अमरीकी South, notably in the mountains.
in मामले involving a परिवार graveyard जहाँ रिमोट पूर्वजो as खूब as those जो यहूद deceased अधिक recently are दफ्न, this may लो on the अक्षर of an extended परिवार reunion to जिससे कुछ लोगों सफर hundreds of miles.
लोगों एकत्रित on the designated दिन और put पुष्प on क़ब्रों और renew सम्पर्क साथ kinfolk and अन्य.
वहीँ प्रायः is a धार्मिक service और a `` dinner on the मैदान, '' the परंपरागत पद for a potluck meal in जिससे लोगों प्रयुक्त to spread the बर्तन आउट on चादरें or चौके on the ग्रास.
it is believed that इस अभ्यास began पहले the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध and thus may प्रतिबिंबित the real उत्पत्ति of the `` memorial दिन '' idea.
मेमोरियल दिन is नहीं to be confused with दिग्गजों Day ; Memorial दिन is a दिन of remembering the men and women जो died while serving, while Veterans दिन मनाता the सेवा of all u.S. military दिग्गजों, living or मुर्दे.
mt. Zion गिरिजाघर राज्य इतिहास मार्कर निकट Philadelphia, मिसिसिपी.
Freedom गर्मियाँ ( भी ज्ञात as the मिसिसिपी Summer Project ) was a अभियान in the संयुक्त States शुभारम्भ in जून 1964 to attempt to पंजीकरण as अनेक African अमरीकी मतदाता as possible in Mississippi, जिससे था historically excluded most अश्वेतों from voting.
the project also set up dozens of Freedom Schools, स्वतंत्रता Houses, और जातियाँ centers in small कस्बों throughout मिसिसिपी to aid the local black जनसांख्यिकी.
the project थी व्यवस्थित by the परिषद of federated Organizations ( cofo ), a coalition of the मिसिसिपी शाखाओं of the चार प्रमुख civil rights संगठन ( SNCC, CORE, NAACP and sclc ).
Most of the impetus, leadership, और financing for the गर्मियाँ Project आए from the sncc.
Robert parris मूसा, sncc field secretary and co-director of COFO, निर्देशित the गर्मियाँ प्रोजेक्ट.
Blues is the नाम given to दोनो a musical form और a music genre कि originated in communities of primarily the `` गहन South `` of the संयुक्त राज्य around the समाप्त of the 19th century इससे spirituals, work गीतों, फ़ील्ड hollers, shouts and chants, and rhymed सरल narrative ballads.
the ब्लूज़ रूप, सर्वव्यापी in जैज़, rhythm और ब्लूज़, and चट्टान and फेंकें is characterized by विशिष्ट कॉर्ड progressions, of जिससे the twelve-bar ब्लूज़ chord progression is the सबसे आम.
the ब्लू टीप कि, for expressive purposes हैं सुंग or played flattened or धीरे bent ( minor 3rd to major 3rd ) in संबंध to the पिच of the प्रमुख scale, हैं भी an महत्वपूर्ण part of the ध्वनि.
The blues genre is based on the ब्लूज़ रूप but possesses अन्य characteristics ऐसे as विशिष्ट गीत, बास लाइनों, और यंत्र.
Blues can be subdivided into अनेक subgenres ranging इससे देश to urban blues that were अधिक or less लोकप्रिय दौरान different periods of the 20th century.
Best known are the Delta, piedmont, Jump, और शिकागो ब्लूज़ styles.
World युद्ध ii चिह्नित the transition from acoustic to इलेक्ट्रिक blues and the प्रगतिशील opening of ब्लूज़ music to a wider audience, विशेषकर white listeners.
In the 1960s and 1970s, a संकर रूप called blues-rock विकसित.
the term `` the blues '' refers to the `` blue शैतानों '', अर्थ वेदना और उदासी ; an जल्दी उपयोग of the पद in this भाव is मिला in George Colman 's one-act तमाशा Blue Devils ( 1798 ).
Though the उपयोग of the phrase in african-american म्यूज़िक may be पुरानी, it रै been attested to चूंकि 1912, जब हार्ट Wand 's `` डलास Blues `` became the पहला स्वत्वाधिकार blues संयोजन.
in गीत the phrase is प्रायः प्रयुक्त to describe a उदास mood.
a क्वार्टर डालर, commonly shortened to क्वार्टर, is a coin लायक 1⁄4 of a United राज्य डालर or 25 cents.
the quarter has महरूम उत्पादित चूंकि 1796.
The चुनाव of 25¢ as a denomination, as opposed to 20¢ which is अधिक आम in अन्य parts of the world, originated साथ the practice of dividing स्पेनी Milled Dollars into eight wedge shaped segments ( cf. `` टुकड़े of आठ `` ).
at एक time `` दो बिट्स ``, i.e. two wedges, प्रत्येक कील an eighth, यूँ a क्वार्टर of the स्पेनी रियल, was a common उपनाम for a quarter.
Day of the मुर्दे ( ) is a Mexican holiday celebrated throughout मैक्सिको and around the संसार in other संस्कृतियों.
the holiday focuses on gatherings of परिवार and मित्रों to दुवा for और remember मित्रों and परिवार members who have died.
It is विशेषकर मनाये in मैक्सिको, जहाँ it is a national holiday, और सब बैंको are closed.
the जश्न takes प्लेस on नवम्बर 1 और 2, in कनेक्शन साथ the कैथोलिक छुट्टियाँ of सब Saints ' दिन और All souls ' Day.
Traditions कनेक्ट with the अवकाश include भवन निजी altars honoring the मृतक using शुगर skulls, marigolds, और the favorite भोजन और पेय of the रजि और visiting graves साथ ये as उपहार.
वे भी leave possessions of the मृतक.
विद्वानों ट्रेस the origins of the modern मैक्सिकन holiday to स्वदेशी observances डेटिंग back सैंकड़ों of years और to an एज़टेक पर्व समर्पित to the goddess Mictecacihuatl.
The अवकाश रै स्प्रेड throughout the संसार : In ब्राज़ील, Dia de Finados is a पब्लिक अवकाश कि अनेक brazilians celebrate by visiting कब्रिस्तान and churches.
in स्पेन, वहीँ हैं त्यौहार और parades, और, at the end of the दिन, लोगों एकत्रित at कब्रिस्तान और दुवा for their मुर्दे loved ones.
समान observances occur elsewhere in यूरोपीय, and similarly प्रसंग जश्न appear in many Asian और African संस्कृतियों.
अनीता mk viii.
The ANITA चिह्नित सात and अनीता चिह्नित viii calculators were launched simultaneously in late 1961 as the संसार 's पहला all- electronic desktop calculators.
designed and built by the Bell पंच Co.
in Britain, and marketed through इसके sumlock comptometer division, वे used vacuum tubes और cold-cathode switching tubes in their लॉजिक circuits and nixie tubes for उनके numerical प्रदर्शक.
They यहूद the first of a श्रेणी of डेस्कटॉप और hand-held electronic calculators कि the company थी to develop and sell अंतर्गत the ANITA नाम into the mid-1970s.
George वॉशिंगटन ( –, 1799 ) was the पहला अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States ( 1789–1797 ), the commander-in-chief of the महाद्वीपीय फौज दौरान the अमरीकी क्रांतिकारी War, and one of the founding fathers of the United States.
he presided over the सम्मेलन कि drafted the Constitution, जिससे replaced the आलेख of Confederation और स्थापित the स्थिति of अध्यक्ष.
वॉशिंगटन थी elected अध्यक्ष as the unanimous choice of the 69 निर्वाचक in 1788, and he परोसा दो terms in दफ्तर.
He oversaw the creation of a दमदार, well-financed national सरकारी that कायम neutrality in the wars raging in यूरोपीय, suppressed rebellion, और won acceptance among अमेरिकी of सब types.
उसके नेतृत्व स्टाइल स्थापित अनेक फ़ॉर्म और rituals of government that have महरूम used चूंकि, ऐसे as using a cabinet प्रणाली and delivering an inaugural address.
Further, the शांतिपूर्ण transition इससे उसके presidency to the presidency of John एडम्स established a tradition कि continues into the 21st century.
Washington थी hailed as `` पिता of उसके देश `` भी during his आजीवन.
वॉशिंगटन was born into the प्रांतीय gentry of Colonial Virginia ; his wealthy planter परिवार owned tobacco बागानों और slaves.
After both उसके पिता और older bhai died when he थी यंग, वॉशिंगटन became personally और professionally संलग्न to the शक्तिशाली विलियम फेयरफैक्स, who प्रचारित उसके करियर as a निरीक्षक and soldier.
वॉशिंगटन quickly became a senior officer in the औपनिवेशिक forces during the पहला चरण of the फ्रेंच and Indian युद्ध.
चुनी by the दूसरी महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस in 1775 to be commander-in-chief of the Continental फौज in the American क्रान्ति, वॉशिंगटन प्रबंधित to force the अंग्रेजों आउट of बोस्टन in 1776, but थी defeated and almost captured later कि year when he lost New यॉर्क नगर.
After क्रासिंग the Delaware River in the dead of winter, he पराजित the अंग्रेजों in two लड़ाइयों, retook New जर्सी and लौटी momentum to the patriot cause.
Because of उसके strategy, क्रांतिकारी शक्तियां captured two major अंग्रेजों सेना at साराटोगा in 1777 और Yorktown in 1781.
इतिहासकारों laud वॉशिंगटन for his चयन और supervision of उसके generals, प्रोत्साहन of morale और क्षमता to hold साथ the फौज, coordination साथ the state राज्यपालों and राज्य militia इकाई, relations with कॉंग्रेस और ध्यान to supplies, लोजिस्टिक्स, और training.
in battle, however, Washington थी repeatedly outmaneuvered by अंग्रेजों सेनापतियों साथ larger armies.
After victory had महरूम finalized in 1783, Washington resigned as commander-in-chief बल्कि than seize शक्ति, proving उसके विपक्ष to तानाशाही और his प्रतिबद्धता to अमरीकी republicanism.
असंतुष्ट साथ the weaknesses of the Articles of Confederation, in 1787 वॉशिंगटन presided over the संवैधानिक सम्मेलन कि drafted the United राज्य संविधान.
Elected unanimously as the पहला अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य in 1789, he attempted to लाओ प्रतिद्वंद्वी गिरोहों together to unify the स्वदेश.
He supported सिकंदर हैमिल्टन 's programs to अदा बंद all state and national कर्ज़, to implement an effective कर प्रणाली और to create a national bank ( despite विपक्ष इससे थामस जेफरसन ).
वॉशिंगटन proclaimed the संयुक्त राज्य neutral in the युद्धों raging in यूरोपीय बाद 1793.
He avoided युद्ध with ग्रेट Britain और guaranteed a decade of सलाम और लाभप्रद व्यापार by securing the jay Treaty in 1795, despite intense विपक्ष इससे the Jeffersonians.
हालांकि never officially joining the Federalist Party, he समर्थित इसके programs.
Washington 's Farewell Address थी an influential primer on republican पुण्य और a चेतावनी विरूद्ध partisanship, sectionalism, और involvement in विदेशी wars.
He रिटायर्ड इससे the प्रेसिडेंसी in 1797 और लौटे to his home, माउंट Vernon, and उसके domestic जीवन जहाँ he managed a variety of उद्यमों.
he freed सब his स्लेव by his final will.
Washington had a vision of a great और powerful स्वदेश that होता be निर्मित on रिपब्लिकन lines using federal शक्ति.
he sought to उपयोग the नेशनल government to preserve स्वतंत्रता, improve अवसंरचना, खोलें the western lands, प्रचार कॉमर्स, found a स्थाई पूंजी, reduce क्षेत्रीय तनाव और promote a स्पिरिट of American राष्ट्रवाद.
at उसके death, Washington was eulogized as `` पहला in युद्ध, पहला in सलाम, और पहला in the hearts of उसके देशवासियों '' by Henry Lee.
the Federalists made उसे the symbol of their party लकिन लिये अनेक सालो, the jeffersonians जारी to distrust his influence और विलम्बित भवन the वॉशिंगटन स्मारक.
as the नेता of the पहला कामयाब revolution against a औपनिवेशिक साम्राज्य in संसार इतिहास, वॉशिंगटन became an international icon for मुक्ति and राष्ट्रवाद, विशेषकर in फ़्रांस और लैटिन अमेरिका.
फिस्कल साल 2012 u.S. Federal बिता – नकदी or बजट आधार.
Fiscal Year 2012 U.S. Federal रसीदें.
The Budget of the संयुक्त States Government प्रायः begins as the अध्यक्ष 's proposal to the u.S. Congress which अनुशंसा funding स्तर लिये the next fiscal साल, beginning अक्तूबर 1.
however, Congress is the body जरूरी by विधि to pass a बजट annually और to submit the बजट passed by both houses to the अध्यक्ष for हस्ताक्षर.
Congressional निर्णय हैं governed by नियम और विधान regarding the संघीय budget प्रक्रम.
बजट committees set spending हद लिये the House और सीनेट committees और लिये Appropriations subcommittees, जिससे तब स्वीकृति व्यक्तिगत appropriations bills to allocate funding to विभिन्न federal कार्यक्रम.
If Congress fails to pass an annual budget ( as रै महरूम the case चूंकि 2009 ), a series of appropriations बिल्स जरूर be passed as `` रोकें गैप '' उपायों.
After Congress approves an appropriations bill, it is sent to the अध्यक्ष, who may चिह्न it into विधि, or may वीटो it ( as he होता a बजट when passed by the कॉंग्रेस ).
a vetoed विधेयक is sent back to कॉंग्रेस, जिससे can pass it into विधि साथ a two-thirds majority in each chamber.
Congress may भी combine सब or some appropriations bills into an omnibus reconciliation विधेयक.
in जोड, the president may request और the कॉंग्रेस may pass supplemental appropriations bills or आपात supplemental appropriations बिल्स.
Several government agencies provide बजट आंकड़ा और analysis.
These शामिल the सरकारी जवाबदेही दफ्तर ( GAO ), Congressional बजट दफ्तर, the Office of Management and बजट ( OMB ) और the U.S. राजकोष विभाग.
ये एजेंसियों have reported कि the संघीय सरकारी is facing a श्रेणी of important financing challenges.
in the short-run, कर revenues have declined significantly due to a severe recession और कर नीति चुनाव, while expenditures have विस्तारित for wars, unemployment बीमे और other सुरक्षा net बिता.
in the long-run, expenditures related to healthcare programs such as medicare और medicaid are projected to grow तेज़ than the economy overall as the population matures.
नई गिनी ( also, टोक Pisin : niugini, Dutch : Nieuw गिनी, और ; historically : पापुआ ) is the संसार 's second largest द्वीप, after ग्रीनलैंड, covering a land area of 786,000 km2.
स्तिथ in the दक्षिणपश्चिम Pacific Ocean, it lies geographically to the ईस्ट of the Malay Archipelago, साथ जिससे it is sometimes शामिल as part of a वृहद Indo-Australian द्वीपसमूह.
Geologically it is a part of the same tectonic थाली as ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
जब संसार sea स्तर यहूद low, the दो shared shorelines ( जिससे अभी lie 100 to 140 मीटर below sea स्तर ), combining with lands अभी inundated into the tectonic continent of Sahul, भी ज्ञात as वृहद Australia.
the two landmasses became अलग जब the क्षेत्रफल अभी ज्ञात as the Torres Strait flooded बाद the end of the पिछला glacial काल.
anthropologically, नई Guinea is considered part of मॅलानिशिया.
Politically, the western half of the द्वीप comprises two Indonesian प्रांतों : पापुआ and वेस्ट Papua.
the पूर्वी हाफ फ़ॉर्म the मेनलैंड of the देश of पापुआ नई गिनी.
The द्वीप रै a population of परिचय 7.5 लाख, with a very कम population घनत्व of only 8 inh/km2.
नई गिनी is differentiated इससे इसके drier, खुशामद, और कम fertile southern बंटवारा, Australia, by इसके much higher वर्षा और इसके क्रियाशील volcanic geology, with its उच्चतम point, Puncak jaya, reaching an उन्नयन of 4,884 m ( 16,023 ft ).
Yet the two land masses share a similar एनिमल fauna, साथ marsupials, सहित wallabies और possums, and the egg-laying monotreme, the spiny anteater, or echidna.
अन्य than bats and some दो dozen स्वदेशी rodent genera, there हैं no pre-human स्वदेशी placental mammals.
सूअर, अनेक अतिरिक्त प्रजाति of चूहे, and the पूर्वज of the New गिनी Singing Dog यहूद introduced साथ इंसान colonization.
the इंसान presence on the द्वीप तिथियाँ वापस at तनिक 40,000 सालो to the oldest इंसान migrations out of अफ़्रीकी.
शोध indicates कि the highlands were an जल्दी and स्वतंत्र center of कृषि, साथ प्रमाण of सिंचाई going वापस at तनिक 10,000 years.
क्युकी of the time depth of इसके inhabitation और इसके highly fractured लैंडस्केप, an unusually ऊँची number of भाषाएं are spoken on the द्वीप, साथ कुछ 1,000 languages ( a फिगर higher than कि of most महाद्वीपों ) having been catalogued आउट of an अनुमानित world-wide pre-Columbian कुल of 6,000 इंसान dialects.
सबसे हैं classified as पापुआई भाषाएं, a generally स्वीकृत भौगोलिक term जिससे a अल्पसंख्यक of authors थाम to be a जेनेटिक एक.
a number of ऑस्ट्रोनीशियाई भाषाएं हैं spoken on the coast और on offshore आइलैंड्स.
In the 16th century स्पेनी explorers खोजा the द्वीप और called it नुएवा गिनी.
in हाल इतिहास पश्चिमी नई Guinea थी शामिल in the डच East Indies colony.
The germans annexed the northern coast of the पूर्वी हाफ of the द्वीप as German New Guinea in their pre–World युद्ध I प्रयत्न to establish themselves as a colonial शक्ति, whilst the दक्षिण eastern portion was अनिच्छा claimed by ब्रिटेन.
Following the Treaty of versailles, the German portion was awarded to ऑस्ट्रेलिया ( which थी already शासी the अंग्रेजों claim, नामित the Territory of Papua ) as a लीग of Nations जनादेश.
the eastern हाफ of the द्वीप थी granted स्वतंत्रता from Australia as पापुआ नई गिनी in 1975.
the पश्चिमी हाफ gained स्वतंत्रता इससे the डच in 1961, लकिन became भाग of इंडोनेशिया जल्द afterwards in विवादास्पद circumstances.
`` The वैन Buren Boys '' is the 148th एपीसोड of the sitcom Seinfeld, and नाम of a fictional New यॉर्क street गिरोह.
Their sign is क्रासिंग the हैंड्स, with एक hand साथ all the fingers 'up ' और स्प्रेड out.
the अन्य हाथ रै सब लकिन the thumb and सूचक finger up, लिये a कुल of आठ ( 8 ).
The gang is नामित for the 8th President of the United राज्य, Martin Van buren ( जो थी the first अध्यक्ष इससे New यॉर्क ).
इस थी the 14th episode लिये the 8th ऋतु.
it aired on फ़रवरी 6, 1997.
Bevo चिह्न
bevo थी a non-alcoholic malt beverage, or निकट बियर, brewed in the United राज्य by the Anheuser-Busch कम्पनी beginning in the early 20th century.
Bevo enjoyed इसके महानतम success दौरान the time of prohibition, जब बियर, wine and distilled liquors, यहूद made illegal लिये thirteen years.
the Anheuser-Busch company started brewing Bevo when alcoholic beverages यहूद निषिद्ध in 1916 by the संयुक्त राज्य हथियारबंद शक्तियां.
उत्पादन रोज़ greatly साथ national निषेध in 1919, and Bevo थी by दूर the most लोकप्रिय of the many `` cereal beverages '' or `` near beers '' of the time.
at the peak of its लोकप्रियता in the early 1920s, अधिक than पाँच लाख cases of Bevo were बेची annually.
renard with a mug of Bevo, चित्रित in terra cotta on the आंतरिक दीवारें of the bevo building, st. लुई
Labels on the bottles billed it as `` bevo the पेय ''.
the name `` bevo '' थी coined इससे the शब्द `` पेय '' and the Slavic भाषा शब्द for beer `` pivo '', and was pronounced `` bee-vo ''.
कुछ bevo विज्ञापन featured the अक्षर `` renard the फॉक्स `` ( आधारित on the protagonist of a मध्यकालीन फ्रेंच folk-tale ), and promotional मग साथ this character were manufactured.
in 1930 Anheuser-Busch built a श्रेणी of boat-bodied cars in इसके St. लुई shops पुकारा the `` bevo नौकाएँ '' जिससे were used लिये प्रमोशन.
सात are believed to have महरूम निर्मित on Pierce-Arrow 8-cylinder chassis जबकि एक surviving example was आधारित upon 1930 Cadillac 353 v8.
बिलबोर्ड advertising Bevo in trenton, नई जर्सी, 1917
a समकालीन advertisement पढ़ा `` कूलिंग और invigorating, bevo the Beverage.
अनुक्रम by the case from your grocer, druggist, or dealer. ''
the पेपर label on the वापस of the bottle read `` the all-year-round नरम पेय.
appetizing - healthful - पौष्टिक - Refreshing.
Milk or water may contain जीवाणु.
bevo never does. ''
bevo became भाग of the लोकप्रिय culture of the समय, और is उल्लेखित in various popular songs और Vaudeville skits of the era.
इस led to द्वितीयक कठबोली उपयोग of the शब्द ; लिये उदाहरण, in अमरीकी सैन्य कठबोली a यंग and अनुभवहीन officer थी called a `` bevo ''.
The विश्वविद्यालयों of Texas नामित इसके शुभंकर `` Bevo '', a name जिससे has stuck to this day.
Irving बर्लिन included a paean to the drink, `` You ca n't रहो up on Bevo '', in उसके 1917 army revue, यिप Yip yaphank.
in the लेट 1920s smuggled बूटलेग beer और liquor as खूब as `` homebrew ``, काटें into Bevo 's marketshare.
साथ sales flattening to 100,000 cases by 1929, anheuser-busch रोका उत्पादन.
The Bevo मिल, st. Louis, in 2008
The bevo भवन, साथ the Renard अक्षर prominently प्रदर्शित at the corners, स्टिल operates as a bottling facility at their प्रमुख ब्रेवरी in St. लुई, मिसौरी.
the लैंडमार्क Bevo मिल, constructed by अगस्त Anheuser Busch, sr. in 1917.
It थी बंद in 2009, लकिन it reopened in अक्तूबर 2009 under नई owners.
Bevo is भी उल्लेखित in the short स्टोरी `` the Killers `` by अर्नेस्ट Hemingway ; as खूब as in babbitt by Sinclair लुईस.
mylanta is an over the काउंटर medication प्रयुक्त लिये the उपचार of एसिड reflux, heartburn, और gastroesophageal reflux disease ( भी known as गर्ड ).
foremilk and hindmilk samples of human breast मिल्क
a कांच of pasteurized गाय milk
Milk is a श्वेत द्रव उत्पादित by the mammary ग्रंथियों of स्तनधारियों.
it is the primary सोर्स of पोषण लिये यंग mammals पहले वे हैं able to डाइजेस्ट अन्य प्रकार of food.
अर्लy- lactation मिल्क contains colostrum, जिससे carries the mother 's antibodies to the baby और can reduce the रिस्क of अनेक diseases in the baby.
it भी contains अनेक other nutrients.
as an agricultural उत्पाद, मिल्क is निकाली इससे स्तनधारियों and प्रयुक्त as खाना लिये इंसानो.
Worldwide, dairy खेतो produced परिचय 730 लाख टन of मिल्क in 2011.
इण्डिया is the संसार 's largest निर्माता और उपभोक्ता of milk, yet neither exports nor imports मिल्क.
नई Zealand, the European संघ 's 27 सदस्य राज्य, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, और the United राज्य are the संसार 's largest निर्यातक of मिल्क और मिल्क products.
चीन और Russia हैं the संसार 's largest importers of मिल्क and मिल्क products.
throughout the world, वहीँ are more than 6 अरब consumers of मिल्क और मिल्क products.
Over 750 लाख लोगों सजीव भीतर दुग्ध खेती households.
मिल्क is a कुंजी contributor to improving पोषण और खाना सुरक्षा विशेषकर in विकासशील देशों.
Improvements in पशुधन and dairy प्रौद्योगिकी offer significant वादा in reducing गरीबी और कुपोषण in the संसार.
मोटरसाइकिल स्पीडवे, प्रायः referred to as स्पीडवे, is a मोटरसाइकिल sport involving four and sometimes up to six राइडर्स स्पर्धा over four anti-clockwise laps of an ओवल सर्किट.
Speedway मोटरसाइकिल उपयोग तभी एक gear और have no brakes and रेसिंग takes place on a flat oval track प्रायः consisting of मैल or loosely packed shale.
प्रतिस्पर्धी use this surface to स्लाइड उनके मशीने बगलों, powersliding or broadsiding into the bends.
on the straight भाग of the track the motorcycles reach speeds of up.
The सटीक origins of the खेल हैं अनजान but वहीँ is evidence of a प्रकार of स्पीडवे रेसिंग being practised in the यूएसए before the पहला World War और in Australia in the लेट 1910s और early 1920s.
There are now both domestic and अंतरराष्ट्रीय competitions in a number of देशों सहित the स्पीडवे World Cup whilst the highest overall स्कोरिंग व्यक्तिगत in the Speedway Grand प्रिक्स events is pronounced the world champion.
Speedway is popular in central and northern यूरोपीय और to a lesser extent in Australia और उत्तर अमेरिका.
a variant of track रेसिंग, स्पीडवे is administered internationally by the fédération internationale de Motocyclisme ( FIM ).
Domestic speedway कार्यक्रम हैं regulated by fim संबद्ध नेशनल मोटर खेल federations.
विटामिन D is a समूह of fat-soluble secosteroids responsible for intestinal अवशोषण of कैल्सियम और phosphate.
in humans, the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण सम्बन्धित compounds of vitamin d are vitamin d2 और विटामिन d3.
Cholecalciferol ( विटामिन d3 ) और ergocalciferol ( विटामिन D2 ) हैं अद्वितीय as they constitute कया we जान as vitamin D और can be ingested from the diet and/or पूरक.
the देह can also synthesize विटामिन D ( from कोलेस्ट्रॉल ) जब सूर्य exposure is पर्याप्त ( hence its nickname, the `` सनशाइन vitamin '' ).
हालांकि विटामिन d is commonly पुकारा a vitamin, it is नहीं दरअसल an essential dietary vitamin in the strict sense, as it can be synthesized in पर्याप्त amounts by सबसे mammals exposed to धूप.
( Cats and dogs can not synthesize विटामिन D efficiently और must प्राप्त it in उनके आहार. )
An सशुल्क chemical compound ( or सम्बन्धित set of compounds ) is तभी scientifically पुकारा a विटामिन जब it can नहीं be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an सजीव, और जरूर be प्राप्त from उनके diet.
however, as साथ other compounds commonly called विटामिन, vitamin d थी खोजा in an प्रयत्न to find the dietary पदार्थ कि थी lacking in a बीमारी, namely, rickets, the बाल्यकाल form of osteomalacia.
additionally, जैसे other यौगिकों called विटामिन, in the developed world vitamin d is added to staple भोजन, such as milk, to avoid बीमारी due to कमियां.
Measures of serum स्तर reflect endogenous synthesis from एक्सपोज़र to sunlight as खूब as सेवन इससे the diet, और it is believed कि संश्लेषण may योगदान generally to the maintenance of adequate serum concentrations.
The evidence indicates कि the synthesis of vitamin D इससे sun exposure works in a प्रतिक्रिया loop कि prevents toxicity लकिन, because of अनिश्चितता about the cancer risk इससे धूप, no सुझाव हैं जारी by the संस्थान of आयुर्विज्ञान, USA, लिये the राशि of sun exposure जरूरी to मिलें vitamin D आवश्यकताएँ.
तदनुसार, the dietary सन्दर्भ Intakes for विटामिन D assume that no संश्लेषण occurs और कि all of a person 's विटामिन d is from उनके आहार, although that होगा rarely occur in practice.
in the liver विटामिन d is परिवर्तित to calcidiol, which is भी known as calcifediol ( INN ), 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, or 25-hydroxyvitamin d—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D ; और जिससे is the specific विटामिन D metabolite कि is measured in serum to determine a person 's विटामिन d औकात.
Part of the calcidiol is परिवर्तित by the गुर्दे to calcitriol, the biologically क्रियाशील रूप of विटामिन D. Calcitriol circulates as a हार्मोन in the blood, regulating the concentration of calcium और फास्फेट in the bloodstream और promoting the healthy growth और remodeling of अस्थि.
Calcidiol is भी परिवर्तित to calcitriol बाहर of the गुर्दे लिये other उद्देश्य, ऐसे as the अप्रसार, differentiation and apoptosis of कोशिकाएं ; calcitriol भी affects neuromuscular फलन और सूजन.
परे its उपयोग to prevent osteomalacia or rickets, the प्रमाण लिये अन्य health प्रभाव of विटामिन d supplementation in the general जनसांख्यिकी is inconsistent.
The बेहतरीन प्रमाण of लाभ is for bone स्वास्थ्य and a घटी in मृत्यु in बुजुर्ग women.
the Duramax is a सामान्य Motors diesel engine family लिये light- और medium duty ट्रक, designed by isuzu.
The 6.6-liter Duramax is produced by dmax, a joint venture between GM and isuzu in moraine, Ohio.
इस इंजन थी initially संस्थापित in 2001 मॉडल साल चेवी और जीएमसी ट्रक और रै been an option since तब in pickups, vans, और medium-duty trucks.
in 2006, उत्पादन at moraine was reportedly limited to approximately 200,000 इंजन per year.
on may 9, 2007, dmax announced the production of the 1,000,000th duramax v-8 diesel at its moraine facility.
Duramax LML
balto.
is also a traditional लिखा संक्षिप्त लिये बाल्टीमोर, मेरीलैंड.
Statue of Balto in सेंट्रल पार्क ( नई यॉर्क City )
Balto ( 1919 – कूच 14, 1933 ) थी a Siberian हस्की sled श्वान who led his टोली on the फाइनल लेग of the 1925 सीरम run to Nome, in जिससे diphtheria antitoxin थी transported from anchorage, अलास्का, to nenana, Alaska, by train और तब to Nome by dog sled to कॉम्बैट an outbreak of the बीमारी.
the चलाएं is commemorated by the सालाना iditarod Trail Sled Dog रेस.
balto was named बाद the Sami explorer सैमुएल Balto.
balto died at the आयु of 14.
Professor स्टीफन हॉकिंग, known for होने a सैद्धांतिक physicist, रै appeared in many works of लोकप्रिय culture.
the Nissan Maxima is a mid-size / entry-level luxury car manufactured by निसान, marketed as the `` four-door खेल car ''.
the origins of the उच्चिष्ट began in जुलाई 1976 as the Datsun 810, an upscale six-cylinder संस्करण of the Bluebird, and थी spun into इसके अपना line in 1981, having महरूम made लगातार since then.
the `` उच्चिष्ट '' नाम was applied धीरे, beginning in 1981.
सबसे pre-2004 maximas यहूद निर्मित in oppama, जापानी, जबतक the वर्तमान उत्तर American maximas started being assembled in smyrna, Tennessee.
the `` Maxima '' has भी महरूम लागू to Cefiros और चलेगा in various markets.
propolis as छत्ता sealing
propolis is a resinous मिश्रण that मधु मधुमक्खियों collect इससे पेड़ buds, sap flows, or अन्य botanical स्त्रोत.
it is used as a sealant for अनावश्यक open स्पेसेस in the छत्ता.
propolis is used for छोटी गैप ( लगभग or कम ), जबकि larger स्पेसेस हैं प्रायः filled साथ beeswax.
इसके color varies depending on its वनस्पति source, the सबसे common होने अंधेरा भूरा.
Propolis is स्टिकी at and ऊपर रूम तापमान,.
at निम्नतर temperatures, it becomes hard and बहुत brittle.
Steven Tyler ( born स्टीवन विक्टर tallarico ; कूच 26, 1948 ) is an American सिंगर, songwriter, and multi-instrumentalist, best known as the frontman और lead singer of the बोस्टन -आधारd rock band Aerosmith, in जिससे he also plays the हार्मोनिका, and occasional पियानो and percussion.
he is ज्ञात as the `` Demon of Screamin ' '' due to his high screams और उसके चौड़ी vocal दायरा.
he is भी ज्ञात लिये his on-stage acrobatics.
दौरान his high-energy प्रदर्शन, he प्रायः dresses in उज्जवल, रंगीन outfits with his trademark स्कार्फ hanging इससे उसके microphone स्टैंड.
In the 1970s, Tyler rose to prominence as the frontman of एरोस्मिथ, जिससे released ऐसे पड़ाव मुश्किल चट्टान albums as खिलौने in the Attic and रॉक्स.
In the late 1970s and जल्दी 1980s, टायलर था a heavy drug और दारू व्यसन, और the बैंड 's लोकप्रियता waned.
he समाप्त drug पुनर्वास in 1986 and subsequently कायम गम्भीरता लिये over 20 सालो, but had a relapse with prescription painkillers in the late 2000s, लिये जिससे he सफलतापूर्वक received उपचार in 2009.
बाद एरोस्मिथ launched a उल्लेखनीय comeback in the लेट 1980s और early 1990s साथ the albums Permanent अवकाश, Pump, and मिलेंगी a Grip, टायलर became a household name और रै remained a प्रासंगिक चट्टान प्रतीक.
as a परिणाम, he रै चूंकि embarked on several सोलो endeavors सहित guest दिखावे on अन्य artists ' music, फिल्मी और tv भूमिकाएँ ( including as a न्यायधीश on अमरीकी आइडल ), authoring a bestselling किताब, और सोलो work ( सहित a Top 40 hit सिंगल in 2011 ).
however, he रै continued to record music और perform with Aerosmith, बाद अधिक than 43 सालो in the बैंड.
the बैंड 's latest एल्बम, म्यूज़िक इससे another Dimension !
, was released on नवम्बर 6, 2012.
टायलर is शामिल among रोलिंग Stones 100 महानतम Singers.
he was also ranked 3rd on hit parader 's शीर्ष 100 मेटल Vocalists of All Time.
in 2001 he was inducted into the चट्टान and Roll Hall of कीर्ति with एरोस्मिथ, and he was the प्रस्तुतकर्ता जब AC/DC थी inducted into the हॉल of कीर्ति in 2003.
In 2013, Tyler and उसके songwriting संगी जो Perry will be recipients of the ascap संस्थापकों पुरस्कार और होगा भी be inducted into the songwriters हॉल of कीर्ति.
the liver produces urea in the यूरिया cycle as a waste उत्पाद of the पाचन of प्रोटीन.
सामान्य human adult रक्त चाहिए contain between 7 to 21 mg of यूरिया nitrogen per 100 ml ( 7–21 mg/ dL ) of रक्त.
Individual laboratories may have अलग सन्दर्भ ranges, और this is क्युकी the कार्यविधि may vary.
वेन fontes ( born फ़रवरी 2, 1940 ) is a former अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल कोच और कॉलेज और professional football player जो थी the head coach of the एनएफएल 's डेट्रॉयट शेर इससे 1988 to 1996.
उसके 67 विन्स and 71 नुकसान are each the सबसे लिये a सिर कोच in टोली इतिहास.
the यहूदियों ( आईएसओ 259-3 israeli उच्चारण ), also known as the यहूदी लोगों, हैं a nation और an ethnoreligious समूह, originating in the Israelites or hebrews of the प्राचीन निकट ईस्ट.
the Jewish नस्ल, राष्ट्रीयता, और धर्म are strongly interrelated, as judaism is the traditional आस्था of the Jewish nation.
converts to Judaism, whose औकात as Jews भीतर the Jewish ethnos is equal to those born into it, have been absorbed into the Jewish people throughout the millennia.
In यहूदी परंपरा, Jewish ancestry is traced to the biblical patriarchs Abraham, Isaac and याक़ूब in the दूसरी millennium BCE.
the modern State of इसराईल was established as a यहूदी nation-state, और defines itself as ऐसे in इसके Basic कानून.
इसके विधि of वापसी अनुदान the right of नागरिकता to कोई jew जो निवेदन it.
Israel is the तभी देश where यहूदियों हैं a बहुमत of the जनसांख्यिकी.
यहूदियों भी enjoyed political autonomy twice पहले in प्राचीन history.
The पहला of these periods lasted from 1350 to 586 bce, और encompassed the periods of the Judges, the संयुक्त Monarchy, and the Divided साम्राज्य of the Kingdoms of इसराईल and यहूदा, समाप्ति साथ the destruction of the First टेम्पल.
the दूसरी थी the काल of the hasmonean किंगडम spanning from 140 to 37 BCE.
Since the destruction of the First टेम्पल, most यहूदियों have जिया in diaspora.
a अल्पसंख्यक in every country in which वे सजीव ( मगर इसराईल ), वे have अक्सर अनुभवी persecution throughout इतिहास, resulting in a जनसांख्यिकी कि रै fluctuated दोनो in संख्याएँ and distribution over the सदियां.
The संसार Jewish population reached a peak of 15 लाख prior to the Second संसार युद्ध, लकिन छह लाख Jews यहूद मारे in the Holocaust.
Since then the जनसांख्यिकी has risen again और, थी estimated at 13.4 लाख by the उत्तर अमरीकी यहूदी आंकड़ा Bank, or कम than 0.2 % of the total world population ( roughly एक in every 514 लोगों ).
According to इस report, about 42.5 % of सब Jews reside in इसराईल ( 5.7 लाख ), और 39.3 % in the United राज्य ( 5.3 लाख ), साथ most of the शेष living in यूरोपीय ( 1.5 million ) and कनाडा ( 0.4 million ).
ये संख्याएँ include सब those who consider themselves यहूदियों, whether or not they हैं संबद्ध साथ a यहूदी संगठन.
the total संसार Jewish population, however, is मुश्किल to माप.
in जोड to issues साथ जनसांख्यिकी methodology, there are halakhic विवादों regarding जो is a jew और धर्मनिरपेक्ष, राजनैतिक, और ancestral पहचान कारकों कि may affect the फिगर considerably.
कॉर्पस christi procession.
Oil on कैनवास by कार्ल Emil doepler.
कॉर्पस domini redirects यहाँ.
For अन्य uses देखिए कॉर्पस domini ( बहुविकल्पी )
the feast of Corpus Christi ( Latin लिये Body of Christ ), भी ज्ञात as कॉर्पस domini, is a लैटिन रीति liturgical solemnity celebrating the tradition and belief in the देह और blood of Jesus मसीह and उसके रियल उपस्थिति in the Eucharist.
it emphasizes the आनन्द of the संस्था of the Eucharist, जिससे थी observed on Holy Thursday in the somber atmosphere of the nearness of शुभ शुक्रवार.
in the present Roman Missal, the feast is designated the solemnity of The सबसे Holy देह और रक्त of Christ.
It is also मनाये in कुछ anglican, लूथरन, और Old कैथोलिक Churches कि थाम समान beliefs regarding the Real उपस्थिति.
the feast is liturgically मनाये on the Thursday बाद Trinity Sunday or, `` जहाँ the Solemnity of the Most पावन Body and Blood of मसीह is नहीं a Holy दिन of दायित्व, it is assigned to the Sunday बाद the सबसे पावन Trinity as इसके उचित दिन ''.
At the end of पावन द्रव्यमान, there is often a बारात of the धन्य sacrament, generally displayed in a monstrance.
The बारात is followed by सुनाकर of the Blessed Sacrament.
A notable Eucharistic procession is कि presided over by the पोप प्रत्येक साल in Rome, where it begins at the archbasilica of St. जॉन Lateran and makes इसके रास्ता to the basilica of Saint Mary Major, where it concludes साथ सुनाकर.
C-reactive प्रोटीन ( CRP ) is a प्रोटीन मिला in the blood, the स्तर of which वृद्धि in जवाब to inflammation ( i.e. C-reactive प्रोटीन is an acute-phase प्रोटीन ).
इसके physiological role is to bind to phosphocholine expressed on the सतह of dead or dying कोशिकाएं ( and कुछ प्रकार of bacteria ) in अनुक्रम to activate the complement system via the c1q जटिल.
CRP is synthesized by the जिगर in response to कारकों released by macrophages और मोटे cells ( adipocytes ).
It is a सदस्य of the pentraxin परिवार of प्रोटीन.
it is नहीं सम्बन्धित to C-peptide or प्रोटीन c.
c-reactive protein थी the पहला पैटर्न मान्यता receptor ( PRR ) to be identified.
the प्रारंभ of the systematic यूरोपीय colonization of the americas is typically दिनाँक to 1492, जब a Spanish expedition headed by क्रिस्टोफर Columbus sailed for इण्डिया to खोलें व्यापार लकिन inadvertently खोजा the Americas.
European conquest, large-scale exploration और colonization जल्द followed.
देखकर कि Europe was preoccupied with अनेक आतंरिक wars और थी धीरे recovering इससे the अनेक मौतों कि the bubonic प्लेग caused, the रैपिड विस्तार at जिससे it grew in wealth and शक्ति was unforeseeable in the early 1400s.
the पहला रिझाने occurred along the caribbean coasts on the आइलैंड्स of हिस्पानिओला, Puerto रीको और क्यूबा, and बाद 1500 extended into the इंटीरियर्स of both उत्तर and दक्षिण अमेरिका.
In 1497, sailing इससे the उत्तर on निमित्त of इंग्लैण्ड, John cabot landed on the उत्तर अमरीकी coast, और a साल later, Columbus 's third voyage reached the South अमरीकी coast.
फ़्रांस founded colonies in much of eastern उत्तर अमेरिका, on a क्रमांक of caribbean आइलैंड्स, and in दक्षिण अमेरिका.
पुर्तगाल colonized Brazil.
आखिरकार, the संपूर्ण पश्चिमी गोलार्ध came अंतर्गत the control of यूरोपीय सरकारें, अग्रणी to profound परिवर्तन to its landscape, जनसांख्यिकी, and plant and animal जीवन.
in the 19th century अलोन over 50 million लोगों बाएँ यूरोपीय for the Americas.
the post-1492 era is ज्ञात as the काल of the columbian एक्सचेंज.
कैथ रिचर्ड्स ( born 18 December 1943 ) is an English musician, singer-songwriter और संस्थापक member of the English चट्टान बैंड the Rolling पत्थरों.
रोलिंग स्टोन magazine कहा Richards था created `` rock 's महानतम सिंगल देह of riffs '', रैंकिंग him 4th on इसके सूची of 100 best guitarists.
चौदह गीतों रिचर्ड्स wrote साथ the रोलिंग पत्थरों ' सीसे vocalist Mick Jagger हैं सूचीबद्ध among Rolling Stone पत्रिका 's `` 500 Greatest गीतों of All Time ``.
रिचर्ड्स ' सुर्खी लिये illicit ड्रग उपयोग stems in part from अनेक ड्रग busts during the लेट 1960s और 1970s and his candour regarding his addiction to and eventual abstinence इससे heroin.
टेस्टोस्टेरोन is a steroid hormone इससे the androgen समूह और is मिला in स्तनधारियों, सरीसृपों, पक्षियों, and अन्य vertebrates.
In स्तनधारियों, टेस्टोस्टेरोन is primarily secreted in the testicles of males and the अंडाशय of महिलाओं, हालांकि छोटी amounts are भी secreted by the अधिवृक्क glands.
it is the प्रिंसिपल पुरूष sex hormone and an anabolic steroid.
In मेन, टेस्टोस्टेरोन plays a key भूमिका in the विकास of पुरूष reproductive ऊतकों ऐसे as the testis और prostate as खूब as promoting secondary यौन characteristics such as increased muscle, bone द्रव्यमान, और the विकास of देह hair.
in जोड, टेस्टोस्टेरोन is essential लिये health and well-being as well as the रोकथाम of osteoporosis.
on average, in वयस्क इंसान males, the plasma विशेषज्ञता of testosterone is परिचय 7–8 times as ग्रेट as the concentration in वयस्क इंसान females ' प्लाज्मा, but as the metabolic खपत of टेस्टोस्टेरोन in males is वृहद, the daily उत्पादन is परिचय 20 times वृहद in men.
महिलाओं also are more संवेदनशील to the hormone.
टेस्टोस्टेरोन is observed in most vertebrates.
मछली make a थोड़ा अलग form called 11-ketotestosterone.
इसके counterpart in कीट is ecdysone.
ये ubiquitous steroids सुझाएँ that sex हार्मोन have an प्राचीन विकासवादी इतिहास.
Cluster sampling is a sampling तकनीक used when `` प्राकृतिक '' but अपेक्षाकृत समरूप groupings हैं evident in a सांख्यिकीय population.
it is often प्रयुक्त in marketing research.
In इस technique, the total जनसांख्यिकी is विभाजित into ये groups ( or क्लस्टर ) और a सरल यादृच्छिक sample of the समूह is selected.
तब the required सूचना is एकत्रित इससे a सरल random sample of the elements within प्रत्येक selected समूह.
This may be किया लिये प्रत्येक तत्व in these समूह or a subsample of तत्व may be चयनित within each of these समूह.
a common motivation लिये cluster sampling is to reduce the कुल number of साक्षात्कार and लागत दिए the desired accuracy.
assuming a फिक्स्ड नमूना आकार, the तकनीक gives अधिक सटीक results जब सबसे of the विभिन्नता in the population is भीतर the समूह, नहीं between उन्हें.
jamestown is a town in Guilford काउंटी, उत्तर कैरोलिना, संयुक्त राज्य, और is a suburb of the nearby शहरों of greensboro and ऊँची Point.
the population थी 3,382 at the 2010 census.
Natalie पोर्टमैन ( born नताली Hershlag ; ; June 9, 1981 ) is an अभिनेत्री और मॉडल with dual अमरीकी और Israeli नागरिकता.
उसके first भूमिका was as an अनाथ लिया in by a hitman in the 1994 कार्रवाई film, but mainstream success आए जब she was cast as padmé amidala in the स्टार Wars प्रीक्वेल त्रयी ( released in 1999, 2002 और 2005 ).
in 1999, वो enrolled at Harvard विश्वविद्यालयों to study psychology while स्टिल working as an अभिनेत्री.
वो completed her स्नातक 's degree in 2003.
in 2001, पोर्टमैन opened in New यॉर्क नगर 's पब्लिक थिएटर production of Anton चेखव 's the Seagull.
in 2005, पोर्टमैन प्राप्त a nomination for the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन supporting Actress and जीती the सुनहरी ग्लोब Award लिये बेहतरीन Supporting अभिनेत्री - गति Picture for the नाटक करीब.
She जीती a Constellation पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Female Performance and a शनि पुरस्कार for बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री for her अभिनीत भूमिका in v for वेंडेट्टा ( 2006 ).
वो निभाई अग्रणी roles in the ऐतिहासिक dramas गोया 's भूत ( 2006 ) and The अन्य बोलिन Girl ( 2008 ).
in May 2008, she परोसा as the youngest सदस्य of the 61st सालाना कैन Film पर्व जूरी.
पोर्टमैन 's directorial डेब्यू, संध्या, opened the 65th वेनिस अंतरराष्ट्रीय Film पर्व 's शॉर्ट्स प्रतियोगिता in 2008.
Portman directed a segment of the सामूहिक फिल्मी नई यॉर्क, i प्रेम तुम.
In 2011, Portman जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार, the सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार, the bafta पुरस्कार, the Screen अभिनेताओं Guild Award, और the स्वतंत्र स्पिरिट Award लिये उसके सीसे performance as नीना sayers in Black Swan.
तांबे is a रासायनिक तत्व साथ the प्रतीक cu ( इससे ) और atomic number 29.
it is a ductile metal with बहुत ऊँची thermal और विद्युत चालकता.
Pure copper is नरम और malleable ; a freshly exposed surface रै a reddish-orange color.
it is प्रयुक्त as a conductor of ऊष्मा और electricity, a building सामग्री, और a constituent of विभिन्न मेटल alloys.
the metal और इसके alloys have been प्रयुक्त लिये thousands of years.
In the रोमन era, copper was प्रधानतया mined on Cyprus, hence the origin of the नाम of the मेटल as сyprium ( मेटल of Cyprus ), बाद shortened to сuprum.
इसके compounds हैं commonly encountered as copper ( II ) salts, जिससे often impart ब्लू or green रंगों to minerals such as azurite और turquoise and have महरूम widely प्रयुक्त historically as pigments.
architectural structures निर्मित with तांबे corrode to give ग्रीन verdigris ( or patina ).
सजावटी आर्ट prominently सुविधाएँ copper, both by itself and as भाग of pigments.
तांबे is essential to all जीना organisms as a ट्रेस dietary खनिज क्युकी it is a key constituent of the respiratory enzyme जटिल cytochrome c oxidase.
In molluscs and crustacea copper is a constituent of the blood रंजक hemocyanin, जिससे is replaced by the iron-complexed hemoglobin in मछली और अन्य vertebrates.
The प्रमुख क्षेत्रों where तांबे is मिला in vertebrates हैं liver, मांसपेशी और अस्थि.
in sufficient concentration, तांबे compounds are जहरीला to higher जीवों और are used as bacteriostatic substances, fungicides, and लकडी preservatives.
The प्रमुख पेशेवर sports लीग, or बस major leagues, in the संयुक्त States and कनाडा हैं the highest पेशेवर competitions of टोली sports in the two countries.
हालांकि व्यक्तिगत खेल ऐसे as गोल्फ़, tennis, and auto racing are भी बहुत लोकप्रिय, the पद is usually सीमित to टोली sports.
The पद `` major league '' थी first used in 1921 in reference to प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल ( एमएलबी ), the top level of professional अमरीकी बेसबॉल.
Today, the प्रमुख उत्तरी उत्तर America पेशेवर टोली खेल लीग are प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल ( MLB ), the National बास्केट संघ ( NBA ), the National फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ), और the नेशनल हॉकी League ( NHL ).
अन्य notable लीग शामिल प्रमुख लीग Soccer ( MLS ), the कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल League ( cfl ), the एरिना फ़ुटबॉल League, प्रमुख League lacrosse, the नेशनल lacrosse League और the Women 's नेशनल बास्केट Association.
the NFL, एमएलबी, NBA, और एनएचएल are commonly referred to as the बिग चार.
प्रत्येक of ये is the richest पेशेवर क्लबों प्रतियोगिता in इसके sport worldwide.
the best खिलाड़ी can become सांस्कृतिक icons in both देशों और elsewhere in the संसार, because the leagues enjoy a significant प्लेस in popular culture in the us और कनाडा.
the एनएफएल has 32 टीमों, and the अन्य have 30 प्रत्येक.
the vast बहुमत of प्रमुख लीग teams हैं concentrated in the सबसे populous metropolitan क्षेत्रों of the संयुक्त States.
Baseball, football, hockey, और सॉकर have had professional leagues लिये over 100 सालो ; जल्दी लीग such as the नेशनल संघ, ओहियो League, and नेशनल Hockey संघ formed the आधार of the आधुनिक MLB, NFL और NHL क्रमशः.
Soccer थी पहला professionalized in 1894, लकिन leagues suffered greatly इससे कमी of स्थिरता और seldom lasted अधिक than a decade.
सॉकर 's महानतम successes यहूद in the रूप of the अमरीकी सॉकर League ( 1921-1933 ), the असली उत्तर अमरीकी सॉकर लीग ( 1968-1984 ), the National Professional सॉकर लीग ( 1984-2001 ) और, फिलहाल, प्रमुख लीग Soccer ( 1996-present ).
बास्केट is a अपेक्षाकृत new development ; the एनबीए evolved इससे the National बास्केट League और इसके splinter समूह the बास्केट संघ of America, taking on its current रूप in 1949.
प्रत्येक major league averages 15,000 fans in उपस्थिति प्रति खेल or उच्चतर as of 2011.
मध्याह्न ऊँचाई is an astronomical नेविगेशन method of calculating an observer 's अक्षांश.
अर्जित value management ( evm ), or अर्जित मान project/performance प्रबन्धन ( EVPM ) is a project प्रबन्धन तकनीक लिये measuring प्रोजेक्ट प्रदर्शन और प्रगति in an उद्देश्य manner.
क्युकी EVM has the ability to combine माप of :
पैमाना
अनुसूची
and cost,
in a सिंगल एकीकृत प्रणाली, अर्जित मान Management is able to provide सटीक forecasts of प्रोजेक्ट performance problems, which is an महत्वपूर्ण योगदान लिये प्रोजेक्ट प्रबन्धन.
Early EVM शोध दिखाया कि the क्षेत्रों of नियोजन and कंट्रोल हैं significantly impacted by इसके उपयोग ; और similarly, using the methodology improves दोनो scope परिभाषा as well as the विश्लेषण of overall project प्रदर्शन.
अधिक हाल research studies have shown that the सिद्धान्त of evm हैं धनात्मक predictors of प्रोजेक्ट कामयाबी.
लोकप्रियता of evm रै grown significantly in recent years परे सरकारी contracting, in जिससे सेक्टर its importance continues to rise ( e.g., हाल new DFAR rules ), in part क्युकी evm can also सतह in and सहायता substantiate contract disputes.
Colorful spring गार्डन पुष्प
Spring is one of the four conventional शीतोष्ण seasons, following शीत and preceding summer.
वहीँ हैं विभिन्न technical परिभाषाएं of spring, but लोकल उपयोग of the term varies according to local climate, संस्कृतियों और कस्टम.
जब it is spring in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध, it will be autumn in the southern गोलार्ध.
At the वसन्त equinox, दिनों हैं close to 12 घंटों long साथ दिन लंबाई increasing as the ऋतु progresses.
वसन्त और `` springtime '' refer to the season, और भी to ideas of rebirth, कायाकल्प, renewal, क़यामत, और regrowth, साथ त्यौहार ऐसे as Carnival, ईस्टर और Holi होने celebrated at this समय.
Jamestown was a settlement in the उपनिवेश of वर्जिनिया, the पहला permanent अंग्रेज़ी उपनिवेश in the Americas.
स्थापित by the वर्जिनिया कम्पनी of लंदन as `` James Fort '' on May 14, 1607 ( O.S., may 24, 1607 n.s. ), it followed अनेक पहले विफल attempts, including the खोया Colony of roanoke.
Jamestown परोसा as the पूंजी of the उपनिवेश लिये 83 years, from 1616 until 1699.
the उपनिवेश थी स्तिथ भीतर the territory of a राजनैतिक entity ज्ञात as Tsenacommacah, the राज्य of the powhatan Confederacy, with around 14,000 देशी inhabitants, and specifically was in भाग of the subdivision ज्ञात as the paspahegh जनजाति.
the natives initially सत्कार the colonists with नाचना, feasting and tobacco ceremonies, and they provided निर्णायक प्रावधानों और support for the अस्तित्व of the colonists, who यहूद नहीं agriculturally inclined, हालांकि relations साथ the newcomers also soured fairly early on, अग्रणी to the total annihilation of the Paspahegh in warfare भीतर 3 सालो.
भीतर a साल of jamestown 's founding, the Virginia Company brought पॉलिश and Dutch colonists to help improve the उपनिवेश.
In 1619, the पहला प्रलेखित africans यहूद brought to Jamestown, हालांकि the आधुनिक conception of गुलामी in the भविष्य संयुक्त राज्य किया not शुरू in Virginia until 1660.
When the colony was subdivided into the original आठ shires of Virginia in 1634, the town became स्तिथ in the eponymous जेम्स नगर शायर.
the London कम्पनी 's second उपनिवेश, बरमूडा, claims to be the साईट of the oldest कस्बा in the अंग्रेज़ी नई संसार, as St. जार्ज 's, बरमूडा was officially स्थापित ( as New लंदन ) in 1612, whereas जेम्स फोर्ट, in Virginia, थी not to be परिवर्तित into जेम्स towne जबतक 1619, and further did not survive into the उपस्थित दिन.
in 1699, the पूंजी थी relocated इससे Jamestown to कया is today Williamsburg, after which jamestown ceased to मौजूद as a settlement, existing आज तभी as an पुरातत्व site.
आज, jamestown is एक of three locations comprising the Historic Triangle of Colonial वर्जिनिया, साथ with Williamsburg and yorktown, साथ two प्राथमिक heritage sites.
Historic jamestowne, the पुरातत्व site on jamestown Island, is a cooperative effort by jamestown National Historic Site ( part of औपनिवेशिक नेशनल Historical पार्क ), and Preservation वर्जिनिया.
the Jamestown उपनिवेश, a जीना history interpretive site, is संचालित by the Jamestown yorktown Foundation in संयोजन with the राष्ट्रमंडल of Virginia.
James क्रिस्टोफर फ्रे ( born September 12, 1969 ) is an अमरीकी लेखक.
उसके किताबे a लाख छोटी Pieces ( 2003 ) and My dost Leonard ( 2005 ), as well as उज्जवल चमकदार morning ( 2008 ), यहूद bestsellers.
He थी the subject of a कांड when जांचकर्ताओं खोजा कि थाना समय and the extent of certain injuries यहूद exaggerated in A लाख Little टुकड़े, a अधिकारीगण autobiographical खाता of the लेखक 's struggle साथ addiction.
deere & Company, सबसे commonly known by इसके name जॉन deere, is an American corporation based in Moline, Illinois, और एक of the largest निर्माताओं of agricultural मशीनरी in the world.
In 2012, it थी listed as 97th in the सौभाग्य 500 America 's रैंकिंग and 190th in the सौभाग्य 500 वैश्विक रैंकिंग.
deere and Company agricultural उत्पाद, बेची अंतर्गत the जॉन deere नाम, शामिल tractors, combine हार्वेस्टर, cotton harvesters, balers, planters / seeders, sprayers, and utvs.
the कम्पनी is भी a निर्माता of construction equipment और forestry उपकरण, as खूब as a supplier of डीज़ल इंजन and drivetrains ( axles, transmissions, gearboxes ) used in भारी उपकरण.
additionally, John Deere manufactures उपकरण प्रयुक्त in lawn, grounds, and turf care, such as walk-behind लॉन mowers, zero-turn lawn mowers, lawn tractors, और snowthrowers.
to support the कोर businesses, जॉन Deere also provides वित्तीय सेवाएं और other related क्रियाएँ.
the कम्पनी 's स्लोगन is `` nothing रनों Like a deere '' और रै a चित्र of a leaping deer as a लोगो, a शब्द play pun on `` nothing रनों जैसे a हिरण ''.
कार्ल Westby coined the phrase `` Nothing Runs जैसे a deere '' लिये a विपणन campaign to बेचें snowmobiles.
the कम्पनी 's उत्पाद हैं भी identifiable by its distinctive shade of green paint, usually augmented by पीला trim.
the संयुक्त राज्य ten-dollar विधेयक ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of United States करेंसी.
The पहला U.S. सचिव of the राजकोष ( 1789–95 ), सिकंदर हैमिल्टन, is currently featured on the obverse of the bill, जबकि the u.S. राजकोष Building is प्रदर्शित on the रिवर्स.
( हैमिल्टन is one of two non-presidents featured on फिलहाल जारी U.S. बिल्स.
the अन्य is बेंजामिन Franklin, on the $ 100 विधेयक.
हैमिल्टन is one of only चार people featured on u.S. पेपर करेंसी ( 1861 to the उपस्थित ) जो थी नहीं born in the महाद्वीपीय संयुक्त राज्य, as he थी इससे the West Indies.
the अन्य are : अल्बर्ट gallatin, स्विट्ज़रलैंड ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ; जार्ज meade, Spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91 राजकोष नोट ) ; और रॉबर्ट Morris, England ( $ 1,000 1862/63 विधिक टेंडर ; $ 10 1878/80 Silver Certificate ).
In जोड, Kamehameha I, appears on the 2008 हवाई राज्य क्वार्टर. )
सब $ 10 बिल्स जारी आज are संघीय Reserve Notes.
the ब्यूरो of नक्काशी and मुद्रण says the average जीवन of a $ 10 विधेयक in circulation is 18 महीने पहले it is replaced due to wear.
Approximately 6 % of सब us banknotes printed in 2009 यहूद $ 10 bills.
Ten डालर bills हैं वितरित by संघीय आरक्षित बैंको in yellow straps.
The सोर्स of the फेस on the $ 10 विधेयक is John trumbull ’s 1805 पोर्ट्रेट of हैमिल्टन that belongs to the पोर्ट्रेट संग्रहण of नई York नगर हॉल.
the $ 10 विधेयक is the तभी u.S. पेपर करेंसी in circulation in which the पोर्ट्रेट चेहरों to the बाएँ ( the $ 100,000 bill featured a पोर्ट्रेट of वुडरो विल्सन facing to the बाएँ, लकिन थी प्रयुक्त तभी लिये intra-government transactions ).
एंडी सैमुएल Griffith ( जून 1, 1926 – जुलाई 3, 2012 ) थी an American कर्ता, television producer, ग्रैमी पुरस्कार -winning Southern-gospel सिंगर, and लेखक.
He was a टोनी Award nominee लिये दो भूमिकाएँ, और gained prominence in the starring भूमिका in निदेशक Elia कज़न 's फिल्मी A Face in the Crowd ( 1957 ) पहले he became better ज्ञात लिये his टेलीविज़न भूमिकाएँ, playing the सीसे वर्ण in the 1960–1968 situation comedy the एंडी Griffith Show and in the 1986–1995 legal नाटक matlock.
Theresa पेनेलोप `` Terri '' इरविन, ( née Raines ; born जुलाई 20, 1964 ) is an Australian -based, American -born naturalist, लेखक, the विधवा of Australian naturalist Steve इरविन और मालिक of Australia Zoo at Beerwah, Queensland, Australia.
She co-starred with उसके husband on the मगरमच्छ शिकारी, उनके unconventional टेलीविज़न nature documentary श्रेणी साथ with इसके spin-off series, क्रोक फाइलें और The मगरमच्छ शिकारी डायरीज़.
She has जिया in ऑस्ट्रेलिया since 1992, जब she शादीशुदा स्टीव Irwin.
andreas Cellarius 's उदाहरण of the Copernican system, इससे the harmonia macrocosmica ( 1660 ).
Heliocentrism, or heliocentricism, is the astronomical model in which the धरती and planets revolve around a relatively stationary Sun at the बीच of the Solar प्रणाली.
The शब्द आता इससे the यूनानी ( helios `` सूर्य '' and kentron `` center '' ).
historically, heliocentrism थी opposed to geocentrism, जिससे लगाई the धरती at the center.
the notion that the धरती घूमती around the Sun था महरूम proposed as early as the 3rd century bc by aristarchus of samos, लकिन aristarchus 's heliocentrism attracted छोटी attention जबतक कोपरनिकस revived और elaborated it.
लुसियो Russo, however, argues कि इस is a misleading छाप resulting इससे the loss of scientific works of the hellenistic era.
using अप्रत्यक्ष प्रमाण he argues that a heliocentric view थी expounded in हिप्पारकस 's work on गम्भीरता.
It was नहीं जबतक the 16th century कि a fully predictive गणितीय model of a heliocentric system थी presented, by the पुनर्जागरण mathematician, astronomer, and Catholic मौलवी nicolaus कोपरनिकस of Poland, leading to the Copernican क्रान्ति.
in the following सदी, योहानेस कॅप्लर elaborated upon और विस्तारित this मॉडल to शामिल elliptical orbits, and supporting observations बना using a telescope were प्रस्तुत by Galileo Galilei.
With the observations of William हर्शेल, Friedrich bessel, और others, खगोलशास्त्रियों एहसास that the सूर्य थी नहीं the बीच of the ब्रह्मांड and by the 1920s एडविन हबल था दिखाया that it was part of a galaxy ( the Milky Way ) कि थी तभी एक of अनेक अरबों.
Norah जोन्स ( born geetali Norah जोन्स शंकर ; March 30, 1979 ) is an American singer-songwriter, pianist, and actress.
वो is the बेटी of भारतीय सितार खिलाड़ी रवि शंकर and Sue Jones.
She is भी anoushka शंकर 's half-sister.
in 2002, she शुभारम्भ उसके सोलो म्यूज़िक करियर साथ the रिलीज of the commercially कामयाब and critically acclaimed album Come Away साथ me, a संलयन of देश music और pop साथ तत्व of जैज़ which थी certified डायमंड album, selling over 26 लाख copies.
the record अर्जित Jones पाँच ग्रैमी Awards, सहित the एल्बम of the Year, Record of the साल, और बेहतरीन नई Artist.
Her subsequent स्टुडियो एल्बम, feels जैसे घर, released in 2004, नहीं too लेट, released in 2007, the वही साल she बना her फिल्मी डेब्यू in My ब्लूबेरी Nights, और her 2009 रिलीज the पतन सब gained Platinum औकात, selling over a लाख copies and यहूद generally खूब प्राप्त by आलोचकों.
जोन्स ' पांचवां studio एल्बम, छोटी Broken Hearts, थी released on अप्रैल 27, 2012.
Jones has जीती nine Grammy पुरस्कार और was 60th on Billboard पत्रिका 's कलाकारों of the 2000–2009 दशक चार्ट.
throughout उसके career, जोन्स has won numerous पुरस्कार और has बेची अधिक than 50 million albums विश्वव्यापी.
बिलबोर्ड named उसके the top जैज़ कलाकार of the 2000–2009 दशक.
Not to be confused with आयाम of a शारीरिक quantity.
For other uses, देखिए आयाम ( बहुविकल्पी ).
From left to सही, the वर्गाकार, the घन, और the tesseract.
the square is bounded by 1-dimensional लाइनों, the घन by 2-dimensional क्षेत्रों, और the tesseract by 3-dimensional आयतन.
A प्रक्षेप of the घन is दिए since it is viewed on a two-dimensional स्क्रीन.
the same applies to the tesseract, जिससे additionally can तभी be दिखाया as a प्रक्षेप भी in three-dimensional स्पेस.
A आरेख showing the पहला चार स्थानिक dimensions.
in physics और mathematics, the आयाम of a स्पेस or object is informally पारिभाषित as the minimum क्रमांक of coordinates needed to बताएँ कोई point within it.
यूँ a लकीर रै a dimension of एक क्युकी only एक निर्देशांक is needed to बताएँ a पाइंट on it ( लिये example, the point at 5 on a क्रमांक लकीर ).
a सतह such as a प्लेन or the surface of a cylinder or गोला रै a dimension of दो क्युकी two निर्देशांक हैं needed to बताएँ a point on it ( लिये उदाहरण, to locate a पाइंट on the surface of a गोला you need दोनो इसके latitude and इसके longitude ).
The अंदर of a cube, a बेलन or a गोला is three-dimensional because तीन निर्देशांक हैं needed to locate a पाइंट भीतर ये स्पेसेस.
in शारीरिक शर्तें, dimension refers to the constituent ढांचा of all space ( volume ) and इसके स्थिति in time ( perceived as a scalar dimension along the t-axis ), as well as the spatial संविधान of वस्तुएँ within—structures that correlate with both particle और फ़ील्ड conceptions, interact according to relative गुण of mass —and हैं fundamentally गणितीय in वर्णन.
These, or other अक्ष, may be referenced to uniquely पहचानो a पाइंट or ढांचा in its attitude और संबंध to अन्य वस्तुएँ and आवृत्ति.
Physical theories that incorporate समय, such as सामान्य आपेक्षिकता, हैं कहा to work in 4-dimensional `` spacetime ``, ( पारिभाषित as a मिन्कोवस्की स्पेस ).
आधुनिक theories tend to be `` higher-dimensional '' सहित क्वांटम फ़ील्ड और स्ट्रिंग theories.
The state-space of quantum यांत्रिकी is an infinite-dimensional function space.
The concept of आयाम is नहीं प्रतिबंधित to शारीरिक objects.
High-dimensional स्पेसेस occur in mathematics and the sciences लिये अनेक reasons, अक्सर as configuration स्पेसेस ऐसे as in Lagrangian or Hamiltonian यांत्रिकी ; ये are abstract स्पेसेस, स्वतंत्र of the शारीरिक स्पेस we live in.
fontana ( ) is a city of 200,762 निवासियों in सैन bernardino काउंटी, California.
संस्थापित in 1913, it remained essentially ग्रामीण until संसार War ii, when entrepreneur Henry J. कैसर निर्मित a विशाल स्टील मिल in the क्षेत्रफल.
It is now a क्षेत्रीय हब of the trucking industry, साथ Interstate 10 and राज्य Route 210 transecting the नगर इससे east to west, और Interstate 15 passing diagonally through इसके northwestern quadrant.
it is घर to the largest of the सैन bernardino काउंटी प्रणाली libraries, a संवर historic थिएटर, a नगरपालिका पार्क, and the स्वचालित क्लबों Speedway on the site of the कैसर Steel मिल.
fontana also hosts the Fontana दिनों हाफ मैराथन and 5k चलाएं.
इस रेस is the fastest half-marathon course in the world.
The u.S. 2012 जनसांख्यिकी reported that fontana 's population was 200,762 in 2012, बनाना it the second सबसे populous नगर in San bernardino काउंटी county और 14th in the राज्य.
cowboys स्टेडियम is a stadium साथ a retractable roof in आर्लिंगटन, टेक्सास.
it serves as the home of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League 's Dallas Cowboys.
it replaced the partially covered Texas स्टेडियम, जिससे खोली in 1971, and परोसा as the cowboys ' home through the 2008 ऋतु.
it थी समाप्त on may 27, 2009.
the stadium seats 85,000, बनाना it the तीसरा largest स्टेडियम in the एनएफएल by seating capacity.
the अधिकतम क्षमता of the स्टेडियम, सहित standing रूम, is 105,000.
The पार्टी Pass ( खोलें areas ) sections हैं पीछे seats in प्रत्येक समाप्त zone and on a series of छह elevated platforms कनेक्ट by stairways.
it रै the संसार 's largest column-free आंतरिक and the चौथी largest high परिभाषा वीडियो स्क्रीन, which hangs from 20 yard line to 20 यार्ड लकीर.
the सुविधा can also be प्रयुक्त for a किस्में of अन्य क्रियाएँ outside of इसके main purpose ( पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल ) ऐसे as कॉन्सर्ट, बास्केट खेल, मुक्केबाज़ी मिलान, college फ़ुटबॉल और ऊँची स्कूल football प्रतियोगिताओं, soccer मिलान, and motocross दौड़.
Canadian historians until the 1980s tended to फ़ोकस on economic history, including labour history.
in भाग इस is क्युकी Canada has had far कम political or military conflicts than अन्य समाजों.
इस was especially सच्चा in the first half of the twentieth सदी जब आर्थिक इतिहास थी overwhelmingly प्रबल.
अनेक of the सबसे prominent अंग्रेज़ी कनाडाई इतिहासकारों इससे इस period were आर्थिक इतिहासकारों, ऐसे as हेरोल्ड innis, Donald Creighton और आर्थर R. M. Lower
विद्वानों of Canadian इतिहास were heirs to the परंपराओं that विकसित in यूरोपीय और the United States, लकिन frameworks that worked खूब elsewhere प्रायः विफल in कनाडा.
The heavily मार्क्सवादी बहकावे economic इतिहास कि dominates यूरोपीय रै छोटी प्रासंगिकता to सबसे of Canadian history.
a focus on क्लास, शहरी areas, and उद्योग fails to पता कनाडा 's ग्रामीण और संसाधन based अर्थव्यवस्था.
similarly, the monetarist school कि is प्रबल in the United राज्य भी रै been मुश्किल to ट्रांसफ़र उत्तर of the किनारा.
the पढ़ाई of economic history in कनाडा became highly केन्द्रित on आर्थिक भूगोल, and लिये many सालो the प्रबल school of thought रै been the स्टेपल्स लेख.
इस school of विचार bases the पढ़ाई of the Canadian अर्थव्यवस्था on the पढ़ाई of natural संसाधन.
This approach रै चूंकि also become प्रयुक्त बाहर of Canada in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और in अनेक developing राष्ट्र.
पहले the आगमन of europeans, the पहला Nations of what होता become Canada था a विशाल and vibrant trade संजाल.
Furs, टूल्स, decorative items, और अन्य goods were प्रायः transported thousands of kilometres, mostly by canoe throughout the अनेक rivers और lakes of the प्रदेश.
the जल्दी यूरोपीय इतिहास of the Canadian अर्थव्यवस्था is usually studied through the स्टेपल्स thesis which argues the Canadian अर्थव्यवस्था विकसित through the exploitation of a series of staples कि would be exported to Europe.
carbon-14, 14c, or radiocarbon, is a radioactive समस्थानिक of कार्बन with a केंद्रक containing 6 protons and 8 neutrons.
इसके उपस्थिति in organic materials is the आधार of the radiocarbon dating method pioneered by willard लिब्बी and सहयोगियों ( 1949 ) to date पुरातत्व, geological and hydrogeological नमूने.
carbon-14 was खोजा on 27 February 1940, by Martin कामेन और sam Ruben at the University of कैलिफ़ोर्निया Radiation प्रयोगशाला in बर्कली, although इसके अस्तित्व had been suggested by Franz kurie in 1934.
वहीँ are तीन naturally occurring isotopes of कार्बन on Earth : 99 % of the carbon is carbon-12, 1 % is carbon-13, and carbon-14 occurs in trace amounts, i.e., बनाना up परिचय 1 भाग per trillion ( 0.0000000001 % ) of the कार्बन in the माहौल.
The half-life of carbon-14 is 5,730±40 सालो.
Carbon-14 decays into nitrogen-14 through beta क्षय.
The primary प्राकृतिक source of carbon-14 on धरती is cosmic रे कार्रवाई upon nitrogen in the माहौल, and it is इसलिए a cosmogenic nuclide.
however, open-air नाभिकीय परीक्षण between 1955–1980 contributed to इस पूल.
The different isotopes of कार्बन do नहीं differ appreciably in their chemical गुण.
This is प्रयुक्त in chemical और biological research, in a तकनीक called कार्बन labeling : carbon-14 अणु can be used to replace nonradioactive कार्बन, in अनुक्रम to ट्रेस chemical and biochemical reactions involving carbon atoms from कोई दिए सशुल्क यौगिक.
बिजली is a highly दृश्य form of energy ट्रांसफ़र
Lightning हमलों हैं विद्युत discharges on a विशाल scale between the atmosphere और an earth-bound object.
वे mostly originate in thunderclouds and terminate on the ground, पुकारा Cloud to Ground ( cg ) lightning.
However, they may भी be initiated इससे a बहुत लम्बा grounded ऑब्जेक्ट and reach into the clouds.
Although `` a बिजली स्ट्राइक '' is commonly प्रयुक्त to describe सब बिजली, it is rather erroneous and a misnomer, as तभी about 25 % of सब बिजली events worldwide हैं cg, the विशाल bulk of बिजली events हैं intracloud ( ic ) or Cloud to बादल ( cc ), जहाँ निर्वहन only occurs high in the माहौल.
The वैज्ञानिक name लिये the complete process of a सिंगल lightning इवेंट is a and it is a very complex, अनेक stepped बातचीत, जिससे is नहीं completely समझा.
सबसे cg flashes तभी `` strike '' one शारीरिक location, referred to as a termination.
The प्राथमिक conducting चैनल, the उज्जवल coursing लाइट तुम may देखिए और कॉल a `` स्ट्राइक '', is तभी परिचय 1 inch in व्यास, हालांकि to our आँखें it looks much larger.
वे are मील long, upwards of tens of miles.
और the संपूर्ण फ्लैश, lasts only a few भिन्नों of a second, सबसे of जिससे is नहीं visible to human eyes.
Thunder is सदा produced by बिजली.
Just जैसे lightning, that deceives हमारी आँखें, usually looking larger or करीब than it वाकई is, the धरती 's atmosphere and our दिमाग 's बोध of the बाहर संसार, ultimately determines whether it is `` सुना '' or not.
Lightning can नहीं happen in a वैक्यूम विहीन of ions, nor can thunder occur बगैर अणुओं to vibrate.
थंडर is a physical absolute लिये प्रत्येक सिंगल flash of बिजली.
contrary to लोकप्रिय विश्वास, a lightning strike itself is प्रायः नहीं responsible लिये अनेक मौतों or चोटों इससे a सिंगल event.
it would be impossible given the प्राकृतिक tendencies of a फ्लैश, unless लोगों or पशु यहूद stacked on top of each other, or वे यहूद somehow arranged खड़ा and part of the फ्लैश channel.
When बिजली ignites an उपलब्धियाँ ईंधन सोर्स and an विस्फोट occurs, it is the शॉक वेव or आग causing the injuries, नहीं the strike itself.
मैदान Currents, also पुकारा step potential, of an earth termination is what truly causes सबसे injuries or death to इंसानो और पशु.
the निकट instantaneous rush of surface charges, induced by the ओवरहेड thundercloud itself, race to the strike पाइंट इससे सैंकड़ों to thousands of feet दूर दौरान निर्वहन.
This वर्तमान, caused दौरान each स्ट्रोक, takes the path of तनिक प्रतिरोध, which may be आयन rich इंसान or एनिमल टाँगे, over poorly conducting धरती.
इस is why it is बेहतरीन to crouch, साथ फीट close together, if ever caught in the खोलें during a अंधड़.
दुर्भाग्यवश, सबसे reports do नहीं चित्रण a distinction between the real cause of चोट or death, be it the strike itself, a resulting विस्फोट or आग, or usually responsible कदम potential.
Peter F. Kilmartin ( born 1962 ) is the वर्तमान attorney General of rhode Island.
kilmartin is भी a रिटायर्ड पुलिस captain and a पूर्व member of the Rhode द्वीप हाउस of Representatives.
A couple following उनके marriage in the Manti यूटा टेम्पल.
Sealing is an अध्यादेश ( अनुष्ठान ) performed in latter Day Saints temples by a व्यक्ति holding the sealing प्राधिकार.
the purpose of this अध्यादेश is to मुहर परिचित relationships, बनाना possible the existence of परिवार relationships throughout eternity.
lds teachings प्लेस great महत्व on the specific प्राधिकार जरूरी to perform these sealings.
Church doctrine सिखाती that इस प्राधिकार, called the priesthood, corresponds to कि दिए to संत Peter in.
sealings हैं typically performed as marriages or as sealing of children to अभिभावक.
वे were performed prior to the death of Joseph Smith, Jr. ( the प्रमुख संस्थापक of the Latter Day संत गति ), और हैं currently performed in the Church of यीशु मसीह of Latter-day Saints.
Although कुछ अन्य denominations, such as the Community of मसीह, दृश्य sealing as an artifact of स्मिथ 's practice of plural marriage, some do स्टिल perform them.
The 2000s, pronounced `` two thousands '', was a दशक कि began on जनवरी 1, 2000, and ended on दिसम्बर 31, 2009.
वैश्वीकरण, which था त्वरित after the जल्दी 1990s पतन of साम्यवादी, continued to be a force in the 2000s.
The विकास of the अंतरजाल was एक of the प्रधान योगदानकर्ता to globalization दौरान the दशक, making it संभावित लिये people to interact with अन्य people, एक्स्प्रेस विचार, introduce अन्य to different संस्कृतियों और पृष्ठभूमि, use goods and सेवाएं, sell और ख़रीदे online, research और learn about things, along साथ experiencing the world without having to छोड़ घर.
the institutions, linkages और technologies कि उभरा or यहूद redefined पहले होता subsequently in this दशक लाभ many countries, in particular चीन और इण्डिया.
however, in अन्य parts of the संसार such प्रगति विफल to पता जारी struggles with modernity, सबसे notably characterized by the वृद्धि of al-Qaeda and other Islamist groups.
The September 11 attacks in 2001 led to the संयुक्त States, संयुक्त Kingdom, Spain, Canada and other राष्ट्र आक्रमणकारी Afghanistan, as खूब as implementing विभिन्न anti-terrorist measures at home और विदेश in कया थी known as the War on आतंक.
the यूरोपीय संघ देखी further integration and विस्तार throughout much of यूरोपीय.
the economic growth of the 2000s था considerable environmental consequences, उठाया demand for diminishing उर्जा resources, और थी still दिखाया to be vulnerable as demonstrated दौरान the वैश्विक वित्तीय Crisis of the late 2000s.
the Gunfight at the O.K. corral थी a gunfight that took प्लेस at परिचय 3:00 p.m. on बुधवार, अक्तूबर 26, 1881, in Tombstone, एरिज़ोना territory, and is generally regarded as the most प्रसिद्ध gunfight in the history of the अमरीकी बूढ़ा वेस्ट.
the gunfight, believed to have lasted तभी परिचय thirty seconds, was fought between the गैरकानूनी cowboys बिली claiborne, आइक और बिली Clanton, और Tom और फ़्रैंक McLaury, and the opposing town Marshal Virgil earp और उसके भाइयो सहायक कस्बा Marshal मॉर्गन और अस्थाई lawman व्याट, aided by दस्तावेज़ हॉलिडे designated as a अस्थाई marshal by Virgil.
आइक Clanton and Billy Claiborne ran इससे the fight unharmed, लकिन Ike 's brother बिली clanton थी मारे, along साथ both mclaurys.
lawmen वर्जिल and मॉर्गन Earp और Doc हॉलिडे यहूद wounded.
Only व्याट Earp आए through the लड़ो unharmed.
The लड़ो रै come to represent a समय in American इतिहास जब the frontier was खोलें दायरा for outlaws opposed by law प्रवर्तन कि was स्प्रेड thin over विशाल territories, leaving some क्षेत्रों unprotected.
The gunfight थी नहीं खूब ज्ञात to the अमरीकी public जबतक 1931 जब author स्टुअर्ट Lake प्रकाशित कया रै चूंकि महरूम determined to be a largely fictionalized जीवनी, व्याट earp : frontier Marshal, two सालो after earp 's मौत.
झील retold उसके story in a 1946 किताब कि निदेशक John Ford विकसित into the फिल्म my darling clementine.
After the फिल्म Gunfight at the O.K. corral थी released in 1957, the shootout came to be known by that name.
चूंकि then, the विरोध has महरूम portrayed साथ varying डिग्री of सटीकता in numerous पश्चिमी films and किताबे.
Despite इसके name, the gunfight actually occurred in a सीमित लॉट छह doors वेस्ट of the पश्च प्रवेश to the o.k. Corral on Fremont गली, और also in the गली.
the दो opposing parties were initially only परिचय apart.
परिचय तीस गोलियाँ were fired in thirty सेकेंड.
आइक clanton filed हत्या आरोप विरूद्ध the Earps and दस्तावेज़ हॉलिडे लकिन they were आखिरकार exonerated by a local judge बाद a 30-day प्रारंभिक सुनना and then again by a लोकल ग्रैंड jury.
on December 28, 1881, Virgil Earp was maimed in an assassination attempt by the outlaw cowboys, and on कूच 18, 1882, वे assassinated मॉर्गन earp.
The suspects furnished ठोस alibis, और newly appointed Deputy U.S. मार्शल व्याट earp took matters into उसके अपना हैंड्स during the earp Vendetta सवारी, ironically pursued by काउंटी शेरिफ जॉनी Behan साथ warrants लिये the earp 's गिरफ़्तार.
hdmi ( High-Definition मल्टीमीडिया Interface ) is a compact audio/video interface लिये transferring uncompressed video आंकड़ा and compressed/uncompressed डिजिटल ऑडियो data from a hdmi-compliant यंत्र ( `` the source device '' ) to a संगत computer monitor, video प्रोजेक्टर, डिजिटल टेलीविज़न, or डिजिटल ऑडियो device.
HDMI is a डिजिटल बदलना लिये मौजूदा analog वीडियो मानकों.
There हैं a क्रमांक of hdmi-standard केबल कनेक्टर्स available, each of which can be used लिये कोई uncompressed tv or PC video स्वरूप, सहित मानक, उन्नत, ऊँची definition, और 3d वीडियो सिग्नल ; up to 8 channels of संपीडित or uncompressed डिजिटल ऑडियो ; a cec ( उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स कंट्रोल ) कनेक्शन ; और an ईथरनेट data connection.
HDMI implements the eia/cea-861 मानकों, जिससे define video स्वरुप and waveforms, हस्तांतरण of संपीडित, uncompressed, और lpcm audio, auxiliary data, और implementations of the vesa edid.
The CEC allows hdmi devices to कंट्रोल प्रत्येक अन्य जब जरुरी और allows the user to operate अनेक डिवाइस with एक रिमोट control हैंडसेट.
क्युकी hdmi is electrically compatible with the CEA-861 सिग्नल प्रयुक्त by digital विज़ुअल इंटरफ़ेस ( DVI ), no सिग्नल conversion is necessary, nor is there a घाटा of video विशेषता जब a dvi-to-hdmi एडाप्टर is प्रयुक्त.
As an uncompressed cea-861 कनेक्शन, hdmi is स्वतंत्र of the विभिन्न डिजिटल टेलीविज़न मानकों used by व्यक्तिगत डिवाइस, such as atsc and dvb, as ये हैं encapsulations of संपीडित MPEG वीडियो streams ( जिससे can be decoded and आउटपुट as an uncompressed वीडियो स्ट्रीम on hdmi ).
Production of consumer HDMI उत्पाद प्रारंभ in late 2003.
In Europe either dvi-hdcp or hdmi is शामिल in the HD ready in-store labeling specification for TV सेट लिये HDTV, formulated by eicta with ses अस्त्र in 2005.
hdmi began to appear on consumer HDTV camcorders and डिजिटल स्टिल कैमरे in 2006.
as of January 8, 2013, जिससे is टेन years बाद the release of the पहला HDMI specification, over 3 billion hdmi डिवाइस have shipped since the लॉन्च of the HDMI मानक.
ब्री वैन de kamp ( née Mason ; also known in the series as ब्री होज और Bree वेस्टन ) is a fictional अक्षर और one of the four protagonists on the ABC टेलीविज़न श्रेणी हताश housewives.
वो is played by actress Marcia Cross, जो has received multiple पुरस्कार और nominations for उसके portrayal, सहित an एमी पुरस्कार nomination, three Golden ग्लोब Award nominations, और two Screen Actors गिल्ड पुरस्कार.
क्रॉस 's portrayal of Bree has महरूम widely praised by आलोचकों and प्रशंसक.
क्रॉस originally auditioned for the भूमिका of मरियम Alice यंग, लकिन श्रेणी creator मार्क Cherry thought वो थी better suited for the भूमिका of ब्री.
Dana Delany, जो eventually was cast as कैथरीन mayfair, थी originally चुनी लिये the role लकिन turned it down, saying it was too similar to उसके role in Pasadena.
ब्री 's प्रमुख संघर्ष throughout the श्रेणी has been उसके attempts to maintain a पूर्ण life despite various obstacles such as widowhood, तलाक, and alcoholism hindering उसके.
वो has been शादीशुदा three टाइम्स ; to Rex वैन de Kamp ( स्टीवन Culp ), orson होज ( Kyle MacLachlan ) और ट्रिप वेस्टन ( स्कॉट bakula ).
देखिए भी the Town of algoma in winnebago काउंटी, विस्कॉन्सिन.
देखिए भी algoma ( Disambiguation ).
algoma is a city in kewaunee County in the u.S. राज्य of विस्कॉन्सिन.
the population was 3,167 at the 2010 census.
Algoma is part of the ग्रीन खाड़ी महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल.
the Hangover भाग II is a 2011 अमरीकी कॉमेडी फिल्मी उत्पादित by Legendary तस्वीरें और वितरित by warner भाईs. तस्वीरें.
It is the sequel to 2009 's the Hangover and the second film in the hangover franchise.
टॉड Phillips directed the फिल्मी in addition to co-authoring the script साथ Craig Mazin, और scot आर्मस्ट्रांग.
The film सितारों Bradley कूपर, ed helms, Zach galifianakis, केन jeong, Jeffrey tambor, जस्टिन bartha और पॉल Giamatti.
The Hangover Part II tells the story of Phil, stu, Alan, और Doug as they travel to थाईलैंड for Stu 's विवाह.
बाद the स्नातक पार्टी in लास वेगास, stu takes no chances and opts लिये a सुरक्षित, subdued pre-wedding brunch.
However, things do not go as नियोजित, resulting in another ख़राब hangover साथ no memories of the previous रात्रि.
विकास of the hangover भाग ii began in April 2009, दो महीने पहले the hangover थी released.
the प्रिंसिपल अभिनेताओं यहूद cast in March 2010 to reprise उनके roles इससे the first फिल्मी.
Production began in October 2010, in Ontario, California, before चलती on location in Thailand.
the फिल्मी was released on may 26, 2011 और, despite receiving ज़्यादातर negative समीक्षाएँ from आलोचकों, it became the highest-grossing R-rated कॉमेडी दौरान इसके नाट्य run.
a तीसरा फिल्मी is set लिये on May 24, 2013.
यंग Man among गुलाब, पोर्ट्रेट miniature by निकोलस Hilliard, 1588, v & A.
Believed to be the Earl of एसेक्स
The Ditchley Portrait of Elizabeth i by the विदेशी मार्कस Gheeraerts the younger, c.1592
The अंग्रेज़ी Renaissance थी a सांस्कृतिक and कलाकारी गति in England डेटिंग इससे the लेट 15th और early 16th सदियां to the जल्दी 17th सदी.
It is संबद्ध साथ the pan-european पुनर्जागरण कि is प्रायः regarded as शुरूआत in Italy in the late 14th सदी.
जैसे most of उत्तरी Europe, England saw little of ये developments जबतक more than a century बाद.
the शुरूआत of the English पुनर्जागरण is प्रायः taken, as a convenience, to be 1485, when the Battle of Bosworth फ़ील्ड ended the युद्धों of the Roses and inaugurated the ट्यूडर राजवंश.
Renaissance स्टाइल और ideas, however, यहूद slow in penetrating England, and the elizabethan era in the दूसरी हाफ of the 16th सदी is प्रायः regarded as the ऊँचाई of the अंग्रेज़ी पुनर्जागरण.
Elizabeth ऐन Bloomer वारेन `` बेट्टी '' Ford ( अप्रैल 8, 1918 – July 8, 2011 ), थी पहला महिला of the United States इससे 1974 to 1977 during the प्रेसिडेंसी of उसके husband Gerald घाट.
As First महिला, she थी क्रियाशील in सोशल नीति और created precedents as a नीतियां active अध्यक्षीय बीवी.
throughout उसके husband 's term in दफ्तर, she कायम high स्वीकृति ratings despite विपक्ष इससे some रूढ़िवादी republicans who objected to her more मॉडरेट और उदार positions on सोशल मुद्दे.
घाट थी noted for उठाने स्तन कर्कट awareness following her 1974 mastectomy and was a passionate समर्थक of, और activist लिये, the बराबर Rights amendment ( ERA ).
pro-choice on गर्भपात and a नेता in the Women 's गति, she gained fame as one of the सबसे candid first महिलाओं in history, commenting on प्रत्येक hot-button समस्या of the समय, सहित feminism, equal अदा, the ERA, sex, दवाएँ, गर्भपात, और गन कंट्रोल.
She also उठाया जागरूकता of व्यसन जब वो announced her long-running battle साथ alcoholism in the 1970s.
following her White House सालो, वो जारी to लॉबी लिये the era and remained क्रियाशील in the feminist movement.
वो थी the founder, और परोसा as the first chair of the फलक of निर्देशकों, of the बेट्टी Ford बीच लिये substance गाली and addiction और is a प्राप्तकर्ता of the Congressional Gold पदक ( co-presentation with उसके husband, जेराल्ड R. घाट, अक्तूबर 21, 1998 ) और the Presidential पदक of स्वतंत्रता ( अलोन, प्रस्तुत 1991, by जार्ज H. W. Bush ).
Platelet endothelial कोशिका adhesion अणु ( pecam-1 ) भी known as cluster of differentiation 31 ( cd31 ) is a protein कि in human is एनकोडेड by the PECAM1 जीन मिला on chromosome 17.
PECAM-1 plays a कुंजी भूमिका in निकालना aged neutrophils इससे the देह.
Jessica rafalowski, Miss फ्लोरिडा यूएसए 2008
Jenna Edwards, मिस Florida यूएसए 2007
Melissa Witek, Miss फ्लोरिडा USA 2005
क्रिस्टन berset, Miss Florida USA 2004
the मिस फ्लोरिडा USA प्रतियोगिता is the pageant that selects the representative लिये the राज्य फ्लोरिडा in the Miss USA pageant.
जबकि फ्लोरिडा रै महरूम कामयाब in terms of runners-up, finalists and semi-finalists, the राज्य has never जीती the मिस यूएसए pageant, although Cheryl patton became मिस USA after सिल्विया Hitchcock won मिस ब्रह्मांड.
फ्लोरिडा 's बेहतरीन results यहूद दौरान the mid-1960s to mid-1970s.
उनके most हाल फाइनलिस्ट was lissette गार्सिया जो placed in the शीर्ष 16 in 2011.
Two पूर्व मिस Florida Teen यूएसए titleholders have जीती इस प्रतियोगिता, और तीन titleholders have भी competed at मिस America.
The वर्तमान titleholder is मिशेल Aguirre of hialeah.
Anglo-Saxon इंग्लैण्ड refers to the काल of the इतिहास of the भाग of ब्रिटेन that became ज्ञात as England, स्थायी इससे the समाप्त of Roman occupation and establishment of Anglo-Saxon kingdoms in the 5th सदी जबतक the नॉर्मन conquest of England in 1066 by विलियम the Conqueror.
anglo-saxon is a सामान्य पद referring to the Germanic peoples जो आए to Britain during the 5th and 6th सदियां, सहित Angles, saxons, Frisii, और jutes.
The term भी refers to the भाषा spoken at the समय in England, which is अभी पुकारा Old अंग्रेज़ी, and to the culture of the era, which रै long attracted लोकप्रिय और scholarly attention.
जबतक the 9th सदी Anglo-Saxon इंग्लैण्ड थी dominated by the heptarchy, the kingdoms of Northumbria, mercia, ईस्ट Anglia, एसेक्स, केंट, Sussex, और Wessex.
In शर्तें of धर्म the kingdoms followed Anglo-Saxon paganism दौरान the early काल, लकिन परिवर्तित to christianity दौरान the 7th सदी.
Paganism had a final stronghold in a period of mercian hegemony during the 640s, समाप्ति with the death of पेंदा of mercia in 655.
Facing the threat of viking invasions, the हाउस of Wessex became प्रबल दौरान the 9th सदी, अंतर्गत the नियम of Alfred the Great.
दौरान the 10th सदी, the व्यक्तिगत kingdoms unified अंतर्गत the नियम of wessex into the किंगडम of इंग्लैण्ड, which stood opposed to the danelaw, the viking kingdoms established इससे the 9th सदी in the उत्तर and east of England.
the Kingdom of इंग्लैण्ड गिरी in the Viking invasion from Denmark in 1013 and was शासित by the House of Denmark जबतक 1042, जब the anglo-saxon House of Wessex थी restored.
The last anglo-saxon king, हेरोल्ड Godwinson, थी मारे in 1066 at the बैटल of हास्टिंग्स.
lighting a परंपरागत रेड brick जॉन Ross jr kiln
Smoked salmon is a preparation of सामन, typically a fillet कि has been cured and hot or ठंडा smoked.
Due to its moderately ऊँची price, smoked सामन is माना a कोमलता.
हालांकि the पद lox is sometimes applied to smoked salmon, they हैं अलग उत्पाद.
View of defibrillator एलेक्ट्रोड स्थिति and placement.
defibrillation is a common treatment लिये life-threatening हृदय dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, and pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic खुराक of विद्युत उर्जा to the affected heart साथ a यंत्र called a defibrillator.
This depolarizes a नाजुक mass of the दिल मांसपेशी, terminates the dysrhythmia, and allows सामान्य sinus लय to be reestablished by the देह 's natural pacemaker, in the sinoatrial node of the heart.
defibrillators can be external, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the type of device प्रयुक्त or needed.
Some बाह्य units, known as automated बाह्य defibrillators ( aeds ), automate the निदान of treatable लय, अर्थ कि lay responders or bystanders हैं able to use them सफलतापूर्वक साथ छोटी, or in कुछ मामले no प्रशिक्षण at all.
Gabrielle `` कोको '' bonheur Chanel ( अगस्त 19, 1883 – जनवरी 10, 1971 ) थी a फ्रेंच फ़ैशन designer and founder of the चैनल brand.
वो was the तभी fashion पंक्तियां to appear on समय पत्रिका 's सूची of the 100 सबसे influential लोगों of the 20th सदी.
साथ with Paul Poiret, चैनल was credited साथ liberating women इससे the constraints of the `` corseted silhouette '' और popularizing the acceptance of a sportive, कैज़ुअल चिक as the feminine मानक in the post- संसार युद्ध i era.
A सफल फ़ैशन creator, चैनल 's influence विस्तारित परे couture कपडे.
उसके design aesthetic थी realized in आभूषण, handbags, and महक.
Her हस्ताक्षर scent, चैनल no. 5, रै become an iconic उत्पाद.
चैनल was known for उसके lifelong determination, महत्वाकांक्षा और energy which वो लागू to उसके professional और सोशल life.
वो achieved दोनो success as a businesswoman and social prominence धन्यवाद to the कनेक्शन्स she बना through her work.
These शामिल many artists और craftspeople to जिसको वो became a संरक्षक.
however, चैनल 's अत्यधिक प्रतिस्पर्धी, opportunistic व्यक्तित्व led उसके to मेक questionable life चुनाव जिससे have उत्पन्न विवाद around her प्रतिष्ठा, विशेषकर उसके behaviour during the German occupation of फ़्रांस in संसार युद्ध ii.
अलाइड मिलों आटा mill on the banks of the मैनचेस्टर Ship Canal
A gristmill ( भी : grist मिल, corn mill or आटा मिल ) grinds grain into flour.
the term can refer to both the पीस mechanism और the building कि holds it.
रोमानिया ( ; दिनाँक spellings roumania और Rumania ; ) is a country located at the चौराहे of Central and southeastern Europe, bordering on the ब्लैक समुद्र.
रोमानिया shares a किनारा with हंगेरियाई और सर्बिया to the west, युक्त और Moldova to the पूर्वोत्तर and east, and बुल्गारिया to the south.
At, Romania is the eighth largest country of the European Union by क्षेत्रफल, and has the seventh largest population of the European Union साथ अधिक than 19 million लोगों.
इसके capital और biggest city is बुखारेस्ट, the 11th largest नगर in the eu.
The संयुक्त Principalities emerged जब the territories of moldavia और Wallachia यहूद संयुक्त under Prince सिकंदर ioan cuza in 1859.
in 1866 Prince karl of hohenzollern-sigmaringen थी called to the सिंहासन as the Ruling Prince of the रोमानियाई Principate और in 1881 he was finally पहनाया as किंग कैरोल i the पहला monarch of the Kingdom of Romania.
स्वतंत्रता इससे the उस्मानी साम्राज्य was declared on 9 may 1877, and was internationally पहचाना the following साल.
At the end of World युद्ध i, transylvania, bukovina and bessarabia संयुक्त साथ the किंगडम of रोमानिया.
संसार War ii दिया cause to the rise of a military dictatorship in Romania अंतर्गत फासिस्ट सामान्य आयन Antonescu, जो chose to लड़ो on the पक्ष of the अक्ष शक्तियां from 1941 to 1944.
After उसके हटाना, रोमानिया switched पहलू in 1944 और joined the allies.
by the end of the युद्ध, कुछ formerly रोमानियाई northeastern territories were occupied by the सोवियत संघ, साथ रेड Army units stationed on Romanian मृदा.
in 1947 रोमानिया forcibly became a लोगों 's Republic ( 1947-1965 ) and a सदस्य of the वॉरसॉ अनुबंध.
In 1965 Nicolae Ceauşescu became General सचिव of the Romanian कम्युनिस्ट Party, और the हर्ष austerity उपायों, राजनैतिक repression, और cult of personality he implemented led to the समाजवादी Republic of रोमानिया ( 1965-1989 ) बनने the most stalinist पुलिस state in the Eastern bloc.
आखिरकार उसके सत्तावादी government थी toppled in दिसम्बर 1989 दौरान the Romanian क्रान्ति of 1989.
साथ the पतन of the Iron पर्दा, रोमानिया began इसके transition towards democracy और a पूंजीवादी मार्केट economy.
After a decade of post-revolution economic problems और living-standards decline, extensive reforms fostered economic रिकवरी.
as of 2010, Romania is an upper-middle-income देश साथ a high इंसान development अनुक्रमणिका.
रोमानिया joined नाटो on 29 March 2004, और the यूरोपीय Union on 1 January 2007.
it is भी a member of the : लैटिन संघ, Francophonie, osce, WTO, BSEC, संयुक्त राष्ट्र, इत्यादि.
आज, रोमानिया is a unitary semi-presidential गणतंत्र, in जिससे the executive branch consists of the अध्यक्ष और the सरकारी.
`` प्राचीन '' redirects here.
For अन्य uses, देखिए प्राचीनता ( बहुविकल्पी ).
The times पहले लिखने belong either to protohistory or to prehistory.
khafre 's पिरामिड ( 4th राजवंश ) और Great Sphinx of गीज़ा ( c. 2500 BC or perhaps earlier )
Ancient इतिहास is the पढ़ाई of the लिखा past इससे the शुरूआत of recorded human history to the जल्दी मध्य Ages.
the स्पैन of अंकित इतिहास is roughly 5,000 years, with Cuneiform स्क्रिप्ट, the oldest discovered रूप of सुसंगत लिखने, इससे the protoliterate काल around the 30th century BC.
इस is the शुरूआत of इतिहास, as opposed to प्रागितिहास, according to the परिभाषा प्रयुक्त by most historians.
the पद शास्त्रीय प्राचीनता is often प्रयुक्त to refer to इतिहास in the बूढ़ा संसार from the शुरूआत of अंकित यूनानी इतिहास in 776 bc ( पहला Olympiad ).
This roughly coincides with the परंपरागत तिथि of the founding of Rome in 753 BC, the शुरूआत of the history of प्राचीन रोम, and the शुरूआत of the archaic काल in प्राचीन यूनानियों.
हालांकि the ending date of प्राचीन history is विवादित, some पश्चिमी scholars उपयोग the पतन of the Western Roman साम्राज्य in 476 AD, the closure of the platonic Academy in 529 AD, the मौत of the सम्राट Justinian i, the coming of islam or the वृद्धि of शारलेमेन as the समाप्त of प्राचीन and Classical European इतिहास.
in इण्डिया, the काल शामिल the early काल of the Middle kingdoms, और, in China, the समय up to the qin राजवंश is शामिल.
Methylcobalamin ( दिखाया ) is a form of vitamin B12.
physically it resembles the अन्य forms of विटामिन b12, occurring as अंधेरा रेड crystals कि freely form cherry-colored transparent समाधान in जल.
विटामिन b12, vitamin B12 or विटामिन B-12, also called cobalamin, is a water-soluble विटामिन साथ a कुंजी role in the normal functioning of the brain and बेचैन प्रणाली, और लिये the formation of रक्त.
it is one of the आठ B विटामिन.
It is सामान्यतः शामिल in the चयापचय of every cell of the human body, विशेषकर affecting DNA synthesis and विनियमन, लकिन भी fatty acid संश्लेषण और energy उत्पादन.
neither fungi, plants, nor animals हैं सक्षम of producing vitamin B12.
तभी जीवाणु और archaea have the enzymes जरूरी लिये इसके संश्लेषण, although many भोजन हैं a natural सोर्स of B12 क्युकी of बैक्टीरियल symbiosis.
the vitamin is the largest and most structurally complicated vitamin and can be उत्पादित industrially only through bacterial fermentation-synthesis.
विटामिन B12 consists of a class of chemically सम्बन्धित यौगिकों ( vitamers ), सब of जिससे have vitamin कार्यकलाप.
It contains the biochemically rare तत्व cobalt.
Biosynthesis of the मौलिक structure of the विटामिन is संपन्नता तभी by जीवाणु ( जिससे प्रायः उपज hydroxocobalamin ), लकिन conversion between different फ़ॉर्म of the vitamin can be accomplished in the इंसान body.
a आम semi-synthetic रूप of the विटामिन, cyanocobalamin, करता नहीं occur in nature, but is produced इससे bacterial hydroxocobalamin और तब used in अनेक दवाएँ और पूरक, और as a food योगात्मक, क्युकी of इसके स्थिरता and lower उत्पादन लागत.
In the देह it is converted to the इंसान physiological forms methylcobalamin और adenosylcobalamin, leaving behind the साइनाइड, albeit in minimal विशेषज्ञता.
अधिक recently, hydroxocobalamin, methylcobalamin, and adenosylcobalamin can be found in अधिक expensive pharmacological उत्पाद and खाना पूरक.
the अतिरिक्त यूटिलिटी of ये is फिलहाल debated.
Vitamin b12 थी discovered from इसके relationship to the बीमारी घातक anemia, जिससे is an असंक्राम्य बीमारी in जिससे parietal कोशिकाएं of the stomach responsible लिये secreting मूलभूत factor हैं destroyed.
Intrinsic factor is निर्णायक लिये the सामान्य अवशोषण of B12, so a कमी of मूलभूत फ़ैक्टर, as seen in pernicious anemia, causes a विटामिन b12 कमियां.
Many अन्य subtler kinds of vitamin b12 कमियां और उनके biochemical effects have since महरूम elucidated.
the रोमन Empire ( ) थी the post- रिपब्लिकन period of the प्राचीन रोमन सभ्यता, characterised by an autocratic रूप of सरकारी और विशाल territorial holdings around the Mediterranean in Europe, Africa, और Asia.
the 500-year-old रोमन गणतंत्र, which preceded it, था महरूम destabilized through a series of सिविल wars.
अनेक events चिह्नित the परिवर्तन इससे गणतंत्र to Empire, including Julius सीज़र 's नियुक्ति as perpetual तानाशाह ( 44 BC ) ; the Battle of Actium ( 31 BC ) ; और the granting of the honorific augustus to Octavian by the रोमन Senate ( 27 BC ).
The पहला two सदियां of the साम्राज्य यहूद a काल of unprecedented stability और समृद्धि ज्ञात as the pax romana ( `` रोमन सलाम '' ).
It पहुँचे its महानतम expanse दौरान the reign of त्राजान ( 98–117 ad ).
in the 3rd सदी, the Empire underwent a crisis कि threatened इसके existence, but थी reunified and stabilized under the emperors Aurelian and diocletian.
Christians रोज़ to power in the 4th century, दौरान जिससे time a प्रणाली of dual rule was विकसित in the लैटिन वेस्ट and यूनानी East.
बाद the पतन of सेंट्रल government in the वेस्ट in the 5th century, the eastern हाफ जारी as कया होता later be ज्ञात as the बीज़ान्टिन साम्राज्य.
Because of the साम्राज्य 's vast extent and long सहनशीलता, the संस्थानों और संस्कृति of Rome had a profound और स्थायी influence on the development of language, धर्म, architecture, दर्शनशास्त्र, विधि, and फ़ॉर्म of government in the territory it governed, विशेषकर यूरोपीय, and by अर्थात् of European expansionism throughout the आधुनिक संसार.
कुल देह surface क्षेत्रफल ( TBSA ) is an assessment माप of burns of the स्किन.
in वयस्कों, the `` नियम of nines '' is प्रयुक्त to determine the कुल प्रतिशत of क्षेत्रफल burned लिये प्रत्येक प्रमुख section of the body.
in some मामले, the burns may cover more than एक body part, or may नहीं fully कवर ऐसे a भाग ; in these मामले, burns हैं measured by using the casualty 's palm as a reference पाइंट लिये 1 % of the देह.
For children and infants, the lund-browder chart is प्रयुक्त to assess the burned body surface area.
Different percentages हैं प्रयुक्त क्युकी the ratio of the संयुक्त surface area of the सिर और गर्दन to the सतह क्षेत्रफल of the limbs is typically larger in children than कि of an वयस्क.
ठेठ मान for आम समूह of इंसानो follow.
( due to rounding, मान may not add to 100 %. )
संसार infant मृत्यु rates by five सालो averages in 2008.
This is a सूची of countries by शिशु mortality rate.
यूनुस किर्स्टन Sorrentino ( born June 26, 1975 ), बेहतर known by उसके स्टेज नाम KJ-52, is a ईसाई rapper इससे tampa, Florida.
The `` KJ '' भाग of उसके नाम refers to उसके बूढ़ा रैप alias, `` किंग J. मैक, '' a name जिससे he later वर्णित in एक of his podcasts as `` horribly cheesy. ''
`` 52 '', which is pronounced `` पाँच दो '', नहीं `` fifty-two '', is a सन्दर्भ to the biblical स्टोरी of यीशु feeding the multitude साथ पाँच loaves and two मछली, which is भी सुंग about in his song `` धक्का Up '' इससे The Yearbook और in the `` kj Five दो '' on it 's Pronounced 'five दो.
he was awarded the Rap/Hip हॉप Recorded Song of the साल लिये `` Never Look दूर '' and rap/hip हॉप एल्बम of the साल at the जीएमए dove Awards of 2007.
on July 28, 2009, KJ-52 released `` समाप्त of My रस्सी '', which is the first single for his album Five-Two Television.
His सोंग `` Dear पतला '' is आधारित on एमिनेम 's सोंग `` स्टेन `` and is a sort of निजी संदेश इससे KJ-52 to Eminem.
the degree symbol ( ° ) is a typographical प्रतीक that is प्रयुक्त, among other things, to represent डिग्री of चाप ( e.g. in geographic निर्देशांक प्रणालियों ), घंटों ( in the चिकित्सा फ़ील्ड ), or डिग्री of temperature.
the symbol consists of a small उठाया वृत्त, historically a शून्य glyph.
In युनिकोड it is encoded at.
This is a सूची of जड़ें, प्रत्यय, और prefixes प्रयुक्त in चिकित्सा शब्दावली, उनके meanings, and उनके etymology.
There हैं a few rules जब using चिकित्सा जड़ें.
firstly, prefixes और प्रत्यय, primarily in Greek, लकिन also in Latin, have a droppable -o-.
as a सामान्य नियम, इस -o- लगभग सदा अधिनियमों as a joint-stem to connect दो consonantal जड़ें, e.g. arthr- + -o- + logy = arthrology.
But generally, the -o- is dropped when connecting to a vowel-stem ; e.g. arthr- + itis = गठिया, बजाय of arthr-o-itis.
secondly, चिकित्सा जड़ें generally go साथ according to भाषा : यूनानी prefixes go साथ यूनानी प्रत्यय and लैटिन prefixes with Latin suffixes.
Although अंतरराष्ट्रीय scientific शब्दावली is not stringent परिचय segregating combining फ़ॉर्म of different भाषाएं, it is advisable जब coining नई शब्द not to mix अलग lingual जड़ें.
पेट कर्कट, or gastric cancer, refers to कर्कट arising from कोई भाग of the stomach.
पेट कर्कट कल्याणकारी परिचय 800,000 मौतों विश्वव्यापी प्रति year.
Prognosis is ग़रीब ( 5-year अस्तित्व < 5 to 15 % ) क्युकी most patients उपस्थित with उन्नत बीमारी.
सारा Lynn इवांस ( born February 5, 1971 ) is an अमरीकी country सिंगर और songwriter.
लिये her संपूर्ण करियर, वो रै been हस्ताक्षरित to आरसीए रिकॉर्ड नैशविले.
इवांस ' debut, तीन मदारी और the सच्चाई, किया not उपज a Top 40 hit on the Hot देश Songs charts.
She followed इस up with No Place कि दूर ( 1998 ), Born to मक्खी ( 2000 ), Restless ( 2003 ) and रियल ठीक प्लेस ( 2005 ).
no प्लेस That दूर received a gold प्रमाणन इससे the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ of America ( RIAA ), जबकि the अन्य तीन albums सब यहूद certified प्लेटिनम.
ये discs शामिल the number 1 singles `` no प्लेस That दूर ``, `` born to मक्खी ``, `` suds in the Bucket `` और `` A रियल Fine Place to Start ``, plus the top 10 हिट्स `` I Could नहीं पूछो लिये More `` ( a cover of the Edwin मैक्केन सोंग ), `` i Keep looking ``, `` पूर्ण `` और `` cheatin ' ``.
Her 2007 Greatest Hits included the शीर्ष 15 हिट्स `` तुम 'll सदा be my baby `` और `` As if ``.
Stronger ( 2011 ) शामिल उसके पांचवां क्रमांक 1 hit, `` a Little Bit Stronger ``, which थी co-written by हिलेरी स्कॉट of Lady Antebellum.
इवांस रै भी won एक पुरस्कार प्रत्येक इससे Billboard, the Academy of Country म्यूज़िक, Country म्यूज़िक संघ, ब्रॉडकास्ट म्यूज़िक Incorporated ( BMI ) and a dove पुरस्कार.
The संसार 's प्रिंसिपल religions और आध्यात्मिक परंपराओं may be classified into a छोटी number of प्रमुख समूह, हालांकि this is by no means a uniform अभ्यास.
इस सिद्धान्त began in the 18th century with the goal of recognizing the सापेक्ष स्तर of civility in societies.
berliners watching a C-54 जमीन at tempelhof विमानक्षेत्र ( 1948 )
The बर्लिन blockade ( 24 June 1948 – 12 may 1949 ) थी एक of the first major अंतरराष्ट्रीय crises of the ठंडा War.
दौरान the multinational occupation of post–World War ii जर्मनी, the सोवियत संघ blocked the पश्चिमी Allies ' रेल, सड़क, and canal अभिगम to the sectors of Berlin under Allied control.
उनके aim was to फ़ोर्स the western शक्तियां to allow the सोवियत मण्डल to प्रारंभ supplying बर्लिन साथ food और fuel, thereby giving the soviets practical कंट्रोल over the entire नगर.
In response, the पश्चिमी allies organized the Berlin एयरलिफ्ट to carry आपूर्तियाँ to the लोगों in वेस्ट बर्लिन.
aircrews from the United राज्य एयर फ़ोर्स, the British Royal Air फ़ोर्स, the Royal Australian एयर Force, the Royal कनाडाई एयर फ़ोर्स, the Royal New जीलैंड Air Force, and the दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी Air फ़ोर्स flew over 200,000 फ़्लाइट in एक साल, providing up to 4700 tons of रोज़ necessities such as fuel और खाना to the berliners.
By the वसन्त of 1949, the प्रयत्न थी clearly succeeding and, by अप्रैल, the airlift थी delivering अधिक cargo than था previously been transported into the नगर by रेल.
The कामयाबी of the बर्लिन एयरलिफ्ट brought embarrassment to the soviets जो था refused to मानना it could make a अंतर.
The नाकेबंदी थी lifted in may 1949 और resulted in the सृष्टि of two separate German राज्य.
the संघीय Republic of जर्मनी ( वेस्ट जर्मनी ) और the German Democratic Republic ( East Germany ) विभाजित up बर्लिन.
In स्मरण of the एयरलिफ्ट, तीन एयरपोर्ट in the former western zones of the नगर परोसा as the प्राथमिक gateways to जर्मनी लिये another पचास सालो.
the euro चिह्न ; logotype और हस्तलिखित.
the euro sign is the currency चिह्न प्रयुक्त लिये the euro, the आधिकारिक करेंसी of the Eurozone in the European संघ ( eu ).
the डिज़ाइन थी प्रस्तुत to the public by the यूरोपीय आयोग on 12 दिसम्बर 1996.
the international three-letter कोड ( according to आईएसओ standard ISO 4217 ) for the यूरोपियन is eur.
In युनिकोड it is encoded at.
in English, the चिह्न precedes the मान.
in कुछ styleguides, लकिन नहीं अन्य, the euro चिह्न is unspaced.
mate (, ; sometimes भी spelled maté ), भी ज्ञात as chimarrão ( ) or cimarrón ( ), is a परंपरागत दक्षिण American infused drink, विशेषकर in Argentina, उरुग्वे, पैराग्वे and the southern states of Brazil और to a lesser उपाधि in दक्षिण of चिली, the bolivian Chaco, Syria और Lebanon.
It is prepared from steeping dried leaves of yerba mate ( llex paraguariensis, ज्ञात in Portuguese as erva-mate ) in hot जल.
mate is परोसा with a मेटल स्ट्रॉ इससे a साझा hollow calabash करेले.
the straw is called a bombilla in some लैटिन American countries, a bomba in पुर्तगाली, और a bombija or, more generally, a masassa ( प्रकार of स्ट्रॉ ) in अरबी.
The straw is traditionally made of चांदी.
Modern, commercially उपलब्धियाँ straws हैं typically बना of निकल चांदी, पुकारा Alpaca ; बेदाग स्टील, or hollow-stemmed cane.
The करेले is known as a mate or a guampa ; while in Brazil, it has the विशिष्ट नाम of cuia, or भी cabaça ( the नाम लिये indigenous-influenced calabash gourds in अन्य regions of ब्राज़ील, still प्रयुक्त लिये general food और पेय in रिमोट regions ).
Even if the जल is supplied from a modern thermos, the infusion is traditionally नशे इससे mates or cuias.
As साथ other brewed herbs, yerba mate पत्ते are सूखी, chopped, and मैदान into a powdery मिश्रण called yerba.
the bombilla अधिनियमों as दोनो a straw और a sieve.
The submerged end is flared, with small holes or slots कि allow the brewed द्रव in, but ब्लाक the चंकी पदार्थ that makes up much of the मिश्रण.
a आधुनिक bombilla डिज़ाइन uses a straight tube with छेद, or वसन्त sleeve to act as a sieve.
`` Tea-bag '' प्रकार infusions of mate ( mate cocido ) have महरूम on the market in अर्जेंटीना, Paraguay and उरुग्वे लिये अनेक सालो अंतर्गत ऐसे व्यापार names as `` taragüí vitality '' in अर्जेंटीना, `` pajarito '' और `` kurupí '' in पैराग्वे, and in Brazil under the नाम `` Mate Leão ''.
इस is माना a completely अलग drink.
It is never drunk इससे cuias or पुकारा chimarrão, nor is it associated साथ the gaucho/gaúcho संस्कृति.
the ऑटोमोटिव उद्योग is a term कि कवर a चौड़ी दायरा of कंपनियाँ और संगठनों involved in the design, development, manufacture, विपणन, और selling of motor वाहनों, towed वाहनों, मोटरसाइकिल and mopeds.
it is एक of the world 's सबसे महत्वपूर्ण आर्थिक सेक्टर by आय.
The पद ऑटोमोटिव उद्योग usually करता not शामिल industries समर्पित to the maintenance of automobiles following delivery to the end-user, ऐसे as मरम्मत दुकानें और मोटर fuel भरना स्टेशन.
the term ऑटोमोटिव was निर्मित from यूनानी autos ( स्वः ), और लैटिन motivus ( of गति ) to represent any रूप of self-powered गाडी.
इस पद थी proposed by SAE सदस्य एल्मर स्पेरी.
David Michael `` Dave '' bautista, Jr. ( born January 18, 1969 ), is an American मिश्रित martial artist, bodybuilder, कर्ता, और पूर्व professional wrestler बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये his समय in World Wrestling entertainment स्पर्धा under the रिंग name बतिस्ता.
In WWE, he became a six-time संसार champion, winning the संसार Heavyweight Championship four टाइम्स, और the डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई चैंपियनशिप two times.
he is the longest-reigning World हेवीवेट Champion in डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई इतिहास.
in जोड to ये championships, Batista has won the World टैग Team चैंपियनशिप तीन टाइम्स ( twice with ric Flair and एकबार with जॉन सीना ) और the डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई टैग टोली चैंपियनशिप once ( साथ rey Mysterio ).
बतिस्ता थी भी the विजेता of the 2005 Royal rumble मैच और गई on to शीर्षक WrestleMania 21, एक of the शीर्ष पाँच highest-grossing pay-per-view कार्यक्रम in प्रो कुश्ती history.
After trying out at World Championship Wrestling 's Power संयंत्र, बतिस्ता हस्ताक्षरित a अनुबंध साथ the wwf in 2000 और थी sent to इसके developmental territory, ओहियो Valley कुश्ती ( ovw ), जहाँ he won the OVW हेवीवेट Championship.
in अगस्त 2012, Bautista हस्ताक्षरित a अनुबंध साथ क्लासिक Entertainment & खेल to लड़ो in mixed martial कला.
he जीती his MMA डेब्यू on October 6, 2012, defeating Vince Lucero via tko in the first गोलाकार.
Henry T. थामस Sampson, jr. ( born in Jackson, मिसिसिपी in 1934 ) is an african-american आविष्कारक.
he ग्रैजुएट इससे ऊँची school in 1951 from Lanier High स्कूल in Jackson, Mississippi.
he तब attended Morehouse College for a युगल of years पहले transferring to purdue University where he became a सदस्य of the Omega psi Phi fraternity.
He प्राप्त a स्नातक 's degree in विज्ञान from purdue University in 1956.
he graduated with an MS degree in अभियान्त्रिकी इससे the University of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, Los Angeles in 1961.
sampson भी प्राप्त उसके ms in नाभिकीय अभियान्त्रिकी इससे the विश्वविद्यालयों of Illinois Urbana-Champaign in 1965, and उसके phd in 1967.
He is the first अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी to earn a Ph.D.in नाभिकीय अभियान्त्रिकी in the संयुक्त States.
कुछ of his accomplishments include होने a member of the United राज्य Navy between the सालो 1962 और 1964 and कमाई an परमाणु उर्जा आयोग सम्मान between 1964 and 1967.
Later he थी awarded the ब्लैक चित्र Award इससे aerospace निगम in 1982.
he थी awarded the Blacks in Engineering, Applied विज्ञान पुरस्कार, और prize लिये शिक्षा, by the Los एंजिल्स Council of ब्लैक पेशेवर Engineers in 1983.
In June 2007, sampson थी शादीशुदा to Laura howzell Young in st. Thomas, U.S. वर्जिन आइलैंड्स.
young-sampson is a प्राध्यापक in the College of शिक्षा at California राज्य University सैन Bernardino.
रॉबर्ट Lane गिब्स ( born March 29, 1971 ) is a senior अभियान adviser for us अध्यक्ष Barack ओबामा.
previously, he was the 28th White House दबायें Secretary.
गिब्स was the communications director लिये then- u.s. सीनेटर ओबामा और his 2008 presidential अभियान.
Gibbs, जो has worked साथ ओबामा since 2004, was दबायें सचिव of जॉन केरी 's 2004 presidential campaign and रै previously specialized in सीनेट campaigns, having परोसा as communications निदेशक लिये the लोकतांत्रिक senatorial अभियान Committee और लिये चार individual Senate campaigns, सहित those of Obama in 2004 और फ्रिट्ज़ Hollings in 1998.
गिब्स थी भी the दबायें सचिव of प्रतिनिधि bob etheridge.
on नवम्बर 22, 2008, गिब्स थी घोषित as the दबायें secretary of the ओबामा प्रशासन.
he assumed the भूमिका of दबायें secretary on जनवरी 20, 2009, और gave उसके पहला आधिकारिक briefing on जनवरी 22.
on January 5, 2011, गिब्स घोषित that he would leave the श्वेत हाउस to become an बाहर adviser to the administration.
He left on February 11, 2011.
on फ़रवरी 12, 2013, it was घोषित that गिब्स had महरूम नियुक्त as a contributor for cable-news channel MSNBC.
His first appearance was on the वही रात्रि prior to the 2013 State Of The संघ पता.
अरमांडो Pérez ( born जनवरी 15, 1981 ), बेहतर known by उसके स्टेज नाम pitbull, is an अमरीकी rapper, songwriter, and रिकार्ड निर्माता.
उसके पहला अंकित प्रदर्शन थी इससे the Lil jon एल्बम किंग्स of crunk in 2002.
in 2004, he released his डेब्यू एल्बम titled m.i.a.m.i. ( छोटी लिये धन Is A प्रमुख समस्या ) under tvt रिकॉर्ड.
चूंकि तब, he रै released तीन अन्य एल्बम अंतर्गत the label : El mariel in 2006, the Boatlift in 2007, और ग्रह गड्ढे in 2011.
He released rebelution in 2009, जिससे included singles `` I जान तुम want Me ( calle ocho ) `` and `` krazy ``.
the latter peaked at No. 30 on the hot 100 और No. 11 on the Hot रैप Tracks charts जबकि `` I जान तुम Want me '' peaked at no. 2 on the Hot 100 और peaked भीतर the शीर्ष टेन धब्बे of चार्ट in the UK, Canada, Italy, और the Netherlands.
the song पहुँचे No. 1 in फ़्रांस and the यूरोपीय hot 100 on the week ending August 29, 2009 according to बिलबोर्ड पत्रिका.
he बाद signed with पोलो grounds म्यूज़िक through सोनी म्यूज़िक and निर्मित उसके अपना लेबल mr. 305 inc.
another single from Rebelution थी `` होटल Room Service ``, which peaked at No. 8 on the hot 100.
rebelution went on to sell over 7.5 लाख worldwide डिजिटल singles और एल्बम combined.
nevertheless, he dropped a smash पुकारा `` दे me Everything '' जिससे पहुँचे # 1 worldwide, और प्रदर्शित artists Ne-yo, Nayer, और Afrojack.
he रै also performed as a featured कलाकार in the remixes of अनेक other hit गीतों, like tik टोक, Scream & Shout, lo Hecho esta hecho, ख़राब, papi, Diamonds, कैसा Low, tonight ( I 'm lovin ' तुम ), वीडियो Phone, over to तुम Now and bumpy सवारी.
Pérez is भी the मेजबान of उसके own Spanish-language कार्यक्रम on the केबल channel mun2 titled la esquina ( स्पेनी लिये the कोने ).
in 2005 Pérez and rapper Sean 'Diddy ' combs co-founded Bad Boy लातीनी, a subsidiary of Combs ' ख़राब लड़के Records लेबल.
It primarily focuses on लैटिन hip hop, Latin आत्मा, लैटिन pop और अन्य तीव्र music, and रै offices in नई यॉर्क and मियामी, फ्लोरिडा.
साथ साथ co-founding it, Pérez currently heads the a & r division of the लेबल.
Pérez रै become a उत्पाद endorser, representing alongside Drake, Rihanna, and Trey songz the “so Kodak” campaign for the Kodak brand and embarking on a साझेदारी with the soft पेय giant Dr pepper as भाग of the campaign “ Vida 23 ” for जिससे he recorded the song specifically featured on उसके album Armando.
pitbull भी घोषित he रै become the प्रवक्ता लिये voli वोदका, in which he holds a बहुमत equity stake, और Budweiser रै चुनी pitbull to प्रचार इसके Bud लाइट लकीर of beer.
The commercials currently हाइलाइट pitbull नाचना and gyrating on stage पकड़कर up a bottle of कली Light.
Pitbull has also खरीदा an इक्विटी stake in Miami subs Pizza और ग्रिल.
हैलोवीन or hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` सब Hallows ' संध्या `` ), भी known as सब Hallows ' संध्या, is a वार्षिक जश्न observed in a number of देशों on अक्तूबर 31, the eve of the Western ईसाई feast of All Hallows ( or सब संतो ) and the दिन initiating the triduum of hallowmas.
according to अनेक विद्वानों, All Hallows ' संध्या is a christianised feast originally बहकावे by पश्चिमी यूरोपीय कटाई त्यौहार, और festivals of the dead with संभावित pagan जड़ें, विशेषकर the Celtic Samhain.
अन्य scholars maintain that it originated independently of samhain and has solely ईसाई roots.
ठेठ त्यौहार हैलोवीन activities include trick-or-treating ( भी ज्ञात as `` guising `` ), उपस्थित वेशभूषा parties, नक्काशी pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, apple bobbing, visiting haunted attractions, playing pranks, telling scary कहानियां, and watching हॉरर films.
स्वतंत्रता of speech is the political सही to communicate one 's राय and ideas using one 's देह and property to anyone who is willing to receive उन्हें.
The term freedom of अभिव्यक्ति is sometimes प्रयुक्त synonymously, लकिन शामिल कोई अधिनियम of seeking, receiving and imparting information or ideas, regardless of the मीडियम used.
in अभ्यास, the right to freedom of वाक is नहीं निरपेक्ष in कोई देश and the सही is commonly विषय to सीमाएं, as साथ libel, बदनामी, obscenity, राजद्रोह ( including, for उदाहरण inciting जातीय hatred ), कापीराइट violation, रहस्योद्घाटन of सूचना that is classified or otherwise.
The सही to स्वतंत्रता of expression is पहचाना as a human right अंतर्गत आलेख 19 of the Universal घोषणा of Human Rights और पहचाना in अंतरराष्ट्रीय human अधिकारों विधि in the International Covenant on Civil और राजनैतिक अधिकारों ( ICCPR ).
Article 19 of the ICCPR states कि `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to थाम opinions बगैर हस्तक्षेप '' and `` everyone shall have the सही to freedom of अभिव्यक्ति ; this सही shall शामिल freedom to तलाश, receive और impart information और विचार of all kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in लिखने or in print, in the रूप of art, or through कोई अन्य मीडिया of उसके चुनाव ''.
आलेख 19 goes on to say that the exercise of ये अधिकारों carries `` खास duties and responsibilities `` और may `` therefore be subject to निश्चित प्रतिबंध '' जब necessary `` [ f ] or respect of the rights or reputation of others '' or `` [ f ] or the protection of नेशनल सुरक्षा or of public order ( order public ), or of public स्वास्थ्य or नैतिकता ''.
Freedom of speech may be legally curtailed in कुछ धार्मिक legal प्रणालियों और in secular jurisdictions where it is मिला to कारण धार्मिक ठोकर, ऐसे as the British जातिगत और धार्मिक द्वेष Act 2006.
सिडनी harbour इससे the एयर, प्रर्दशित the Opera House, the सीबीडी, Circular quay, the सेतु, the Parramatta नदी, उत्तर Sydney and Kirribilli in the अग्रभूमि
the Sydney Harbour सेतु is a steel through arch bridge आरपार सिडनी harbour that carries रेल, vehicular, सायकिल and पैदल traffic between the सिडनी सेंट्रल कारोबार district ( सीबीडी ) और the North Shore.
the नाटकीय view of the सेतु, the harbour, और the आसपास सिडनी ओपेरा हाउस is an iconic चित्र of सिडनी, New South Wales, and ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
the bridge is nicknamed `` the Coathanger '' because of its arch-based डिज़ाइन.
Under the दिशानिर्देश of dr j.j.c. bradfield of the nsw विभाग of Public Works, the सेतु थी designed और निर्मित by अंग्रेजों firm dorman long and co Ltd of Middlesbrough और opened in 1932.
the bridge 's डिज़ाइन थी influenced by the Hell फाटक सेतु in नई यॉर्क.
it थी the संसार 's widest long-span सेतु, at 48.8 मीटर ( 160 फीट ) wide, until निर्माण of the new Port Mann सेतु in Vancouver.
it is also the fifth longest spanning-arch सेतु in the संसार, and it is the tallest स्टील मेहराब bridge, measuring इससे शीर्ष to जल स्तर.
जबतक 1967 the Harbour सेतु was सिडनी 's tallest ढांचा.
the हवाई हॉटस्पॉट is a volcanic हॉटस्पॉट स्तिथ निकट the namesake हवाई आइलैंड्स, in the उत्तरी प्रशांत समंदर.
एक of the most well-known और heavily पढ़ाई हॉटस्पॉट in the संसार, the Hawaii plume is जिम्मेदार for the सृष्टि of the हवाई – Emperor seamount chain, an over 5,800 किलोमीटर ( 3,600 mi ) long chain of volcanoes, चार of जिससे हैं active, दो of which are dormant, और अधिक than 123 of which हैं विलुप्त, अनेक having चूंकि been ground beneath the लहरें by erosion as seamounts and atolls.
The chain extends from दक्षिण of the द्वीप of Hawaii to the किनारे of the aleutian गर्त, निकट the eastern edge of Russia.
While most ज्वालामुखी are निर्मित by geological activity at tectonic plate सीमाएँ, the हवाई हॉटस्पॉट is स्तिथ far इससे आसपास plate सीमाएँ ; the classic hotspot सिद्धान्त, पहला प्रस्तावित in 1963 by जॉन Tuzo विल्सन, proposes that a सिंगल, फिक्स्ड mantle plume builds ज्वालामुखी कि तब, cut बंद from उनके सोर्स by the गति of the प्रशांत थाली, become increasingly inactive and आखिरकार erode नीचे sea स्तर over लाखो of सालो.
according to इस सिद्धान्त, the nearly 60° bend separating the सम्राट और Hawaiian segments of the कड़ी थी caused by a sudden shift in the गति of the Pacific थाली.
In 2003, भैस investigations of this irregularity led to the proposal of a मोबाईल हॉटस्पॉट सिद्धान्त, suggesting कि हॉटस्पॉट are mobile, नहीं फिक्स्ड, and that the 47 लाख साल बूढ़ा बेंड was caused by a shift in the हॉटस्पॉट 's motion बल्कि than the थाली 's.
प्राचीन hawaiians were the first to recognize the increasing आयु and weathered राज्य of the volcanoes to the north as they progressed on fishing रिझाने साथ the islands.
the volatile state of the हवाई ज्वालामुखी और their निरंतर battle साथ the sea थी a major तत्व in हवाई mythology, समाविष्ट in pele, the deity of ज्वालामुखी.
बाद the arrival of europeans on the island, in 1880-1881 जेम्स Dwight दाना directed the पहला formal geological study of the hotspot 's volcanics, confirming the संबंध long observed by the natives.
1912 चिह्नित the founding of the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory by volcanologist Thomas jaggar, initiating निरन्तर वैज्ञानिक observation of the आइलैंड्स.
In the 1970s, a mapping प्रोजेक्ट was initiated to लाभ अधिक सूचना परिचय the complex geology of हवाई 's seafloor.
The हॉटस्पॉट रै चूंकि महरूम tomographically imaged, प्रर्दशित it to be चौड़ी और up to deep, और ओलीवाइन और गार्नेट -आधारd अध्ययन have shown its मैग्मा कक्ष is लगभग.
In its at least 85 million years of activity the हॉटस्पॉट रै produced an estimated of rock.
the कड़ी 's rate of बहाव रै slowly increased over time, causing the राशि of time प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत volcano is active to घटी, इससे 18 million सालो लिये the 76 million साल old Detroit seamount, to बस under 900,000 for the एक लाख year-old Kohala ; on the अन्य हाथ, eruptive आवाज़ has increased इससे प्रति साल to परिचय.
overall, इस रै caused a ट्रेंड towards अधिक active but quickly-silenced, closely spaced volcanoes—whereas ज्वालामुखी on the निकट पक्ष of the हॉटस्पॉट ओवरलैप प्रत्येक अन्य ( forming ऐसे superstructures as Hawaii द्वीप और the ancient मावी नुई ), the oldest of the सम्राट seamounts are spaced as far as अलावा.
दाउद Palmer, निदेशक of the दिखाएँ, announced that the ऋतु 4 finale is the श्रेणी finale because Nickelodeon रद्द the show.
Petitions हैं होने signed to लाओ the दिखाएँ लिये a fifth ऋतु.
the दिखाएँ airs on Treehouse TV कनाडा and उपनाम jr. ( formerly Noggin ).
एडी और the cruisers is a 1983 अमरीकी film directed by मार्टिन Davidson साथ the पटकथा written by the निदेशक and arlene डेविडसन, आधारित on the novel by P. F. kluge.
it was marketed with the टैगलाइन `` विद्रोही.
Rocker.
प्रेमी.
आइडल.
vanished. ''
osteonecrosis of the jaw ( onj ) is a severe bone बीमारी that affects the maxilla and the mandible.
Various forms of ONJ have महरूम described over the पिछला 160 सालो, and a क्रमांक of कल्याणकारी have been सुझाया in the साहित्य.
osteonecrosis of the जबड़े associated साथ bisphosphonate therapy, जरूरी by कुछ कर्कट उपचार regimens, रै been identified और पारिभाषित as a pathological एंटिटी चूंकि 2003.
The संभावित रिस्क from निम्नतर oral doses of bisphosphonates, लिया by मरीजों to prevent or दावत ऑस्टियोपोरोसिस, remains uncertain.
विभिन्न treatment options have महरूम छान, however severe मामले of onj still require सर्जिकल हटाना of the affected अस्थि.
A thorough इतिहास और assessement of pre-existing प्रणालीगत समस्याएं and possible साइट of dental संक्रमण हैं required to सहायता prevent the कंडीशन, especially if bisphosphonate चिकित्सा is माना.
The Boston Red sox हैं a पेशेवर बेसबॉल team आधारित in बोस्टन, मैसाचुसेट्स, और a member of प्रमुख League Baseball 's American लीग पूर्वी Division.
Founded in as one of the अमरीकी League 's आठ चार्टर franchises, the Red sox 's घर ballpark has महरूम Fenway पार्क since.
The `` Red sox '' नाम थी चुनी by the टोली मालिक, John I. टेलर, around, following previous बोस्टन टीमों कि था महरूम ज्ञात as the `` Red stockings ``.
वे have played in 11 World श्रेणी, जीतना 7.
बोस्टन was a dominant team in the नई लीग, defeating the पिट्सबर्ग pirates in the पहला World श्रेणी in और winning four अधिक championships by.
however, they then गई into one of the longest championship droughts in baseball इतिहास, पुकारा by कुछ the `` Curse of the bambino `` बाद इसके कथित शुरूआत साथ the रेड sox 's बिक्री of Babe रुथ to the प्रतिद्वंद्वी Yankees two सालो after their संसार चैंपियनशिप in 1918, an 86-year इंतजार before the टोली 's छठे World चैंपियनशिप in.
however, the team 's इतिहास दौरान कि काल थी hardly one of futility, but was बल्कि punctuated साथ कुछ of the सबसे memorable पल in संसार Series history, including enos Slaughter 's `` mad डैश `` in, the `` Impossible सपना `` of, Carlton Fisk 's home run in, और विधेयक buckner 's गलती in.
Red sox इतिहास has भी been चिह्नित by the team 's तीव्र rivalry साथ the नई यॉर्क Yankees, arguably the fiercest and सबसे historic in North American पेशेवर sports.
The बोस्टन Red sox हैं स्वामित्व by fenway खेल समूह, जो भी अपना लिवरपूल फ़ुटबॉल क्लबों of the प्रीमियर League in इंग्लैण्ड.
the Red sox हैं consistently एक of the top एमएलबी टीमों in औसत सड़क उपस्थिति, जबकि the छोटी क्षमता of fenway पार्क रोकता उन्हें इससे leading in overall attendance.
इससे May 15, 2003 to अप्रैल 10, 2013, the रेड sox sold आउट प्रत्येक घर game-a कुल of 820 खेल ( 794 नियमित ऋतु ) लिये a प्रमुख पेशेवर sports रिकार्ड कि lasted almost a दशक.
mince पाई filled with mincemeat
Mincemeat is a मिश्रण of कटा dried फल, आसुत spirits और spices, और sometimes beef suet, बीफ, or venison.
Originally, mincemeat always contained meat.
अनेक आधुनिक व्यंजनों contain बीफ suet, हालांकि vegetable shortening is sometimes used in इसके place.
विसंगतियाँ of mincemeat are मिला in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Brittany, कनाडा, उत्तरी यूरोपीय, आयरलैंड, दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी, the संयुक्त Kingdom and the United States.
in कुछ countries the पद mincemeat refers to minced or मैदान मांस.
डायना, राजकुमारी of Wales ( डायना frances ; née स्पेंसर ; 1 जुलाई 1961 – 31 August 1997 ) थी the पहला बीवी of चार्ल्स, प्रिंस of वेल्स, the ज्येष्ठ बेटे और वारिस apparent of महारानी Elizabeth II.
वो was खूब ज्ञात लिये उसके fund-raising work for अंतरराष्ट्रीय धर्मार्थ and as an प्रतिष्ठित हस्ती of the late 20th सदी.
Her wedding to the प्रिंस of वेल्स on 29 जुलाई 1981 was आयोजित at st पॉल 's Cathedral और देखी by a global टेलीविज़न audience of over 750 लाख.
जबकि married वो bore the शीर्षक राजकुमारी of वेल्स, duchess of कॉर्नवॉल, Duchess of Rothesay, Countess of Chester और Baroness of Renfrew.
the विवाह उत्पादित दो बेटे, the princes विलियम और हैरी, who became दूसरी और third in line to the अंग्रेजों सिंहासन.
डायना थी born into an वैभवशाली English परिवार साथ royal ancestry.
वो थी the fourth child of जॉन Spencer, 8th अर्ल Spencer और his wife frances, daughter of Maurice रोश, 4th सामन्त Fermoy.
वो became a पब्लिक फिगर with the घोषणा of उसके सगाई.
वो भी प्राप्त recognition लिये her charity work और लिये उसके support of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय अभियान to बैन landmines.
इससे 1989, she was the अध्यक्ष of the ग्रेट Ormond गली Hospital for children, in addition to dozens of अन्य धर्मार्थ.
Diana remained the object of विश्वव्यापी media scrutiny दौरान and after her विवाह, जिससे ended in तलाक on 28 August 1996.
मीडिया ध्यान और पब्लिक शोक यहूद considerable following her death in a car क्रैश in Paris on 31 अगस्त 1997.
अर्जेंटीना, officially the Argentine गणतंत्र ( ), is the second largest देश in दोनो दक्षिण अमेरिका और the लैटिन अमेरिका region.
The देश is a संघ of 23 provinces और the autonomous नगर of buenos Aires, इसके capital और largest नगर.
it is the आठवीं -largest देश in the world by land area और the largest among spanish-speaking राष्ट्र by भौगोलिक area of 2,780,400 km2 and is the fourth by जनसांख्यिकी, with over 41 लाख people.
अर्जेंटीना is a founding member of the United राष्ट्र, mercosur, the संघ of दक्षिण अमरीकी Nations, the Organization of Ibero-American राज्य, the World बैंको समूह and the संसार व्यापार संगठन, और is one of the g-15 और G-20 major economies.
अर्जेंटीना is located in South America, bordered by चिली to the वेस्ट और south, Bolivia और पैराग्वे to the north और ब्राज़ील and उरुग्वे to the northeast.
अर्जेंटीना claims प्रभुता over part of अंटार्कटिक, the फ़ॉकलैंड आइलैंड्स ( ) और South Georgia और the दक्षिण Sandwich Islands.
Argentina is the successor राज्य of the Viceroyalty of the río de la प्लाटा, an विदेशी उपनिवेश of the स्पेनी Empire.
Argentina घोषित स्वतंत्रता दौरान the अर्जेंटाइन War of स्वतंत्रता, जिससे was followed by the अर्जेंटाइन सिविल युद्धों during सबसे of the 19th सदी.
the देश faced several सैन्य coups and राजनैतिक instability during the 20th century, साथ with आवधिक आर्थिक संकट that continue to this day.
A पहचाना Southern कोन power, और मध्य power, Argentina is लैटिन America 's third-largest अर्थव्यवस्था, with a `` बहुत high '' rating on the इंसान विकास index.
भीतर Latin अमेरिका, अर्जेंटीना has the fifth उच्चतम nominal जीडीपी प्रति capita और the highest in खरीदना power शर्तें.
the legatum संस्थान have argued कि the देश has a `` न्यास for भविष्य विकास due to इसके market size, levels of विदेशी सीधा investment, और प्रतिशत of high-tech निर्यात as share of कुल manufactured goods '', and it is classed by investors as मध्य emerging अर्थव्यवस्था.
अर्जेंटीना is the लैटिन अमरीकी country with the सबसे नोबेल पुरस्कार, for a कुल of पाँच, सब प्राप्त दौरान the दूसरी हाफ of the बीसवीं सदी.
the country has तीन Nobel पुरस्कार in विज्ञान और two of peace.
The सबसे महत्वपूर्ण aspects of विज्ञान और प्रौद्योगिकी in अर्जेंटीना are चिंतित with medicine, नाभिकीय भौतिकी, जैवप्रौद्योगिकी, nanotechnology, स्पेस और प्रक्षेपास्त्र प्रौद्योगिकी and अनेक फ़ील्ड related to the देश 's प्रमुख आर्थिक क्रियाएँ.
the country भी has the mega प्रदर्शनी center of विज्ञान, प्रौद्योगिकी, उद्योग और art that हैं लैटिन अमेरिका 's largest.
Hickory is a नगर in catawba काउंटी, साथ भाग भी in बुर्के County and काल्डवेल County.
the नगर 's 2010 अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी is 40,010.
Hickory is the principal नगर in the Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton MSA, in जिससे the population at the 2010 Census was 365,497.
polyethylene terephthalate ( sometimes written poly ( ethylene terephthalate ) ), commonly abbreviated पालतु, पीट, or the obsolete petp or pet-p, is a thermoplastic पॉलिमर राल of the पॉलिएस्टर परिवार और is प्रयुक्त in सिंथेटिक मछली ; पेय, खाना और अन्य द्रव containers ; thermoforming applications ; and engineering resins often in combination साथ कांच रेशा.
the term polyethylene terephthalate is a सोर्स of confusion क्युकी this substance, PET, does नहीं contain polyethylene.
Thus, the वैकल्पिक form, बहु ( ethylene terephthalate ), is प्रायः प्रयुक्त in scholarly जर्नल्स लिये the sake of सटीकता और स्पष्टता.
depending on its प्रसंस्करण और thermal इतिहास, polyethylene terephthalate may मौजूद both as an amorphous ( पारदर्शी ) and as a semi-crystalline पॉलिमर.
the semicrystalline material might appear पारदर्शी ( particle size < 500 nm ) or अपारदर्शी and white ( particle आकार up to a few माइक्रोन ) depending on its क्रिस्टल ढांचा and कण आकार.
Its मोनोमर ( bis-β-hydroxyterephthalate ) can be synthesized by the esterification प्रतिक्रिया between terephthalic acid and एथिलीन glycol with जल as a byproduct, or by transesterification प्रतिक्रिया between एथिलीन ग्लाइकोल and dimethyl terephthalate साथ methanol as a byproduct.
बहुलकीकरण is through a polycondensation reaction of the monomers ( done तत्काल बाद esterification/transesterification ) साथ जल as the byproduct.
the majority of the संसार 's पालतु production is लिये सिंथेटिक मछली ( in excess of 60 % ), साथ bottle उत्पादन accounting for around 30 % of वैश्विक माँग.
in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of वस्त्र applications, पालतु is referred to by its common name, `` polyester, '' whereas the acronym `` PET '' is generally प्रयुक्त in संबंध to पैकेजिंग.
Polyester makes up about 18 % of world पॉलिमर production और is the third-most-produced polymer ; polyethylene ( pe ) and polypropylene ( pp ) are first and दूसरी, क्रमशः.
पालतु consists of polymerized units of the मोनोमर एथिलीन terephthalate, with repeating c10h8o4 units.
पालतु is commonly recycled, और रै the क्रमांक `` 1 '' as इसके रीसाइक्लिंग symbol.
Louisiana थी admitted to the Union on April 30, 1812, और elects senators to वर्ग 2 और क्लास 3.
Its वर्तमान सीनेटरों हैं Democrat मरियम Landrieu and Republican दाउद vitter.
ब्लैक खीर, blood pudding or रक्त सॉसेज is a प्रकार of सॉसेज बना by कुकिंग blood or सूखी रक्त with a filler जबतक it is मोटा enough to congeal when cooled.
the डिश exists in various संस्कृतियों from एशिया to Europe and the americas.
सुअर, cattle, शीप, बतख, और बकरी रक्त can be used depending on अलग देशों.
in Europe and the Americas, ठेठ fillers include meat, मोटे, suet, ब्रैड, cornmeal, sweet potato, प्याज, chestnuts, जौ, और oatmeal.
in Spain, पुर्तगाल और Asia, potato is often replaced by rice.
शेयरधारक may refer to:
शेयरधारक ( corporate ), a person, समूह, organization, सदस्य or system who affects or can be affected by an संगठन 's क्रियाएँ
Stakeholder, an entity कि can be affected by the परिणाम of कि in जिससे they are said to be stakeholders, i.e., कि in which वे have a हिस्सेदारी.
प्रोजेक्ट शेयरधारक, a व्यक्ति, समूह or संगठन साथ an interest in a project
Stakeholder theory, a theory that identifies और मॉडल the समूह जिससे are हितधारकों of a निगम or प्रोजेक्ट
शेयरधारक analysis, the process of identifying those प्रभावित by a प्रोजेक्ट or event
शेयरधारक ( विधि ), a third party जो temporarily holds धन or property while its owner is स्टिल होने determined
जोकर Smight ( March 9, 1925 - सितंबर 1, 2003 ) थी an American थिएटर और film निदेशक.
Smight थी born in मिनियापोलिस, मिनेसोटा and went to स्कूल साथ भविष्य कर्ता पीटर क़ब्रों.
उसके film credits include The Traveling Executioner, Rabbit, चलाएं, Loving युगल, मिडवे, हार्पर, Airport 1975, Damnation Alley और the Emmy पुरस्कार -winning एडी, as खूब as many episodes of टेलीविज़न series ऐसे as the Twilight मण्डल और The Alfred हिचकॉक घंटा.
He भी directed the 1960 Broadway खेल The 49th cousin and composed the music for the film adaption of फेंकें of Thunder सुन My क्राई.
smight died from कर्कट in Los Angeles, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
dmitri ivanovich Mendeleev ( ; 8 फ़रवरी 1834 – 2 फ़रवरी 1907 O.S. 27 January 1834 – 20 जनवरी 1907 ) थी a Russian केमिस्ट और inventor.
he प्रतिपादित the आवधिक विधि, निर्मित his अपना संस्करण of the आवधिक तालिका of तत्व, और used it to सही the गुण of कुछ already खोजा elements और also to predict the गुण of elements yet to be खोजा !
Modesto ( स्पेनी for `` modest '' ), officially the नगर of modesto, is the काउंटी seat और largest city of Stanislaus काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, United राज्य.
साथ a population of approximately 201,165 at the 2010 census, modesto ranks as the 18th largest नगर in the state of California.
The Modesto जनसांख्यिकी काउंटी प्रभाग, which शामिल the शहरों of ceres और Riverbank, रै a जनसांख्यिकी of 312,842 as of 2010.
modesto is स्तिथ in the central घाटी क्षेत्रफल of उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया, 90 miles उत्तर of Fresno, 92 मील ईस्ट of सैन फ्रांसिस्को, 68 मील दक्षिण of the राज्य पूंजी of Sacramento, 66 miles वेस्ट of Yosemite National पार्क, और 24 miles दक्षिण of स्टॉकटन.
modesto, a 29-time पेड़ नगर USA honoree, is घिरी by समृद्ध farmland, lending to a रैंकिंग for the काउंटी as 6th among सब कैलिफ़ोर्निया counties in फार्म उत्पादन.
led by milk, बादाम, मुर्गियों, अखरोट, and मकई साइलेज, the county grossed nearly $ 3.1 अरब in agricultural उत्पादन in 2011.
Modesto थी immortalized in the 1973 George लुकास film अमरीकी graffiti.
the पुरस्कार winning film captured the स्पिरिट of `` cruising '' और दोस्ती on 10th और 11th Streets in 1962 और led to the पुनरुद्धार of 1950 's nostalgia कि शामिल the tv दिखाएँ प्रसन्न Days and the other spin-offs.
रॉन हावर्ड, Harrison घाट और Richard Dreyfuss स्ट्रक्चर in the फिल्मी.
the soundtrack थी a huge कामयाबी.
Director जार्ज Lucas is a native of modesto, graduating इससे downey ऊँची स्कूल in 1962.
the gallup-healthways well-being अनुक्रमणिका लिये 2011, जिससे interviews 1,000 participants रोज़ और asks individuals to assess उनके कार्य, finances, physical स्वास्थ्य, emotional राज्य of दिमाग और समुदायों, क्रमित modesto 126 out of the 190 शहरों surveyed.
in दिसम्बर 2009, Forbes ranked Modesto 48th out of 100 among `` बेहतरीन bang-for-the-buck शहरों ''.
in इस रैंकिंग, Modesto क्रमित 8th in housing affordability और travel time but also क्रमित 86th in job भविष्यवाणी growth and 99th in foreclosures.
स्वतंत्रता दिन, commonly ज्ञात as the Fourth of जुलाई, is a federal अवकाश in the संयुक्त States commemorating the अपनाना of the Declaration of स्वतंत्रता on जुलाई 4, 1776, declaring स्वतंत्रता इससे the किंगडम of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन.
स्वतंत्रता Day is commonly संबद्ध with आतिशबाजी, parades, barbecues, carnivals, fairs, picnics, concerts, बेसबॉल games, परिवार reunions, and political speeches and ceremonies, in जोड to विभिन्न other पब्लिक और private कार्यक्रम celebrating the इतिहास, सरकारी, और traditions of the संयुक्त राज्य.
स्वतंत्रता दिन is the नेशनल दिन of the United राज्य.
a gender symbol denotes the sex of an सजीव or characterizes an एजेंट by लिंग.
The दो मानक लिंग symbols denoting male ♂ and female ♀ are निकला इससे astrological symbols, denoting the शास्त्रीय planets मंगल और शुक्र, respectively.
ये प्रतीकों have महरूम in उपयोग चूंकि the पुनर्जागरण भी denoting तत्व in alchemy, specifically the धातुओं आयरन and तांबे.
वे यहूद first प्रयुक्त to denote the effective लिंग of पौधे ( i.e. sex of individual in a given crossbreed, चूंकि सबसे पौधे हैं hermaphroditic ) by Carolus Linnaeus in 1751.
a leasehold estate is an स्वामित्व of a अस्थाई सही to थाम जमीन or प्रॉपर्टी in which a lessee or a tenant holds अधिकारों of रियल प्रॉपर्टी by कुछ रूप of शीर्षक इससे a lessor or landlord.
हालांकि a किरायेदार does थाम अधिकारों to रियल प्रॉपर्टी, a leasehold estate is typically माना personal प्रॉपर्टी.
Leasehold is a form of जमीन कार्यकाल or प्रॉपर्टी कार्यकाल जहाँ एक पार्टी खरीदता the right to occupy जमीन or a भवन for a दिए लंबाई of time.
as पट्टे is a विधिक एस्टेट, leasehold एस्टेट can be खरीदा and sold on the open मार्केट.
a leasehold thus differs इससे a freehold or शुल्क simple जहाँ the ownership of a प्रॉपर्टी is purchased outright and thereafter held for an indeterminate length of समय, और भी differs इससे a tenancy जहाँ a प्रॉपर्टी is let ( rented ) on a periodic आधार ऐसे as weekly or मासिक.
जबतक the समाप्त of the पट्टे काल ( प्रायः measured in दशकों or centuries ; a 99 year lease is काफी आम ) the leaseholder रै the सही to remain in occupation as an assured किरायेदार paying an सहमत rent to the owner.
Terms of the अनुबंध are contained in a पट्टे, जिससे has तत्व of अनुबंध और प्रॉपर्टी विधि intertwined.
the term estate लिये years may occasionally be used.
इस refers to a leasehold estate लिये कोई specific काल of time ( the शब्द `` years '' is भ्रामक ).
An एस्टेट for सालो is नहीं automatically नवीनीकृत.
Colloquially, `` lease '' और `` पट्टे `` हैं प्रायः a formalization of a longer, specific काल as compared with a `` rental '' कि निर्मित a tenancy at will, terminable or बेदर्दी at the समाप्त of a short काल.
ओलिविया ( भी known as स्वागत to the संसार of the सुअर Olivia ) is a british-american children 's animated टेलीविज़न series उत्पादित by media company Chorion and आधारित on इयान falconer 's किताबे.
it is seen on उपनाम Jr. in the us, Milkshake !
, Nick jr. in the uk and आयरलैंड, और डिज़्नी जूनियर in Latin America और Brazil, treehouse TV in कनाडा.
the show रै जीती a silver अभिभावक ' Choice Award लिये its धनात्मक स्टोरी lines and वर्ण.
Location of Panama between Pacific ( नीचे ) and Caribbean ( शीर्ष ), साथ कनाल at top बीच
The पनामा कनाल ( ) is a जलयान canal in पनामा कि connects the अटलांटिक समंदर ( via the Caribbean समुद्र ) to the प्रशांत समंदर.
The कनाल कटौती across the Isthmus of Panama and is a key conduit लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय मेरीटाइम व्यापार.
There हैं locks at प्रत्येक समाप्त to लिफ्ट जहाजों up to Gatun Lake ( above sea-level ).
gatun झील थी निर्मित to reduce the amount of कार्य जरूरी लिये the कनाल.
the वर्तमान ताले हैं चौड़ी.
a third, wider lane of locks is होने built.
फ़्रांस began work on the canal in 1881, लकिन था to रोकें because of अभियान्त्रिकी समस्याएं and high mortality due to बीमारी.
the संयुक्त राज्य ( US ) later took over the प्रोजेक्ट और took a दशक to complete the canal in 1914, enabling ships to avoid the lengthy Cape सींग route around the southernmost tip of दक्षिण अमेरिका ( via the ड्रेक Passage ) or to navigate the Strait of magellan.
एक of the largest and सबसे मुश्किल engineering प्रोजेक्ट कभी undertaken, the पनामा कनाल शॉर्टकट बना it possible लिये जहाजों to सफर between the अटलांटिक और Pacific महासागर in half the time previously required.
the shorter, faster, safer route to the us वेस्ट coast और to राष्ट्र in और साथ the Pacific Ocean अनुमत those places to become more एकीकृत with the संसार अर्थव्यवस्था.
दौरान इस समय, ownership of the territory कि is now the पनामा Canal थी पहला Colombian, तब French, और तब American ; the संयुक्त राज्य समाप्त the निर्माण.
The कनाल थी taken over in 1999 by the Panamanian सरकारी, as long नियोजित.
सालाना traffic has risen इससे परिचय 1,000 ships जब the canal खोली in 1914, to 14,702 vessels in 2008, the latter measuring a total of 309.6 million Panama Canal/Universal Measurement System ( pc/ums ) टन.
By 2008, अधिक than 815,000 vessels था passed through the canal, many of them much larger than the असली planners could have envisioned ; the largest ships that can पारगमन the canal today हैं पुकारा panamax.
The American Society of Civil Engineers रै named the पनामा Canal एक of the सात चमत्कार of the आधुनिक world.
बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन ( अप्रैल 17, 1790 ) थी one of the founding fathers of the United States.
a noted बहुश्रुत, Franklin was a leading लेखक, मुद्रक, राजनैतिक theorist, politician, postmaster, scientist, musician, inventor, satirist, नागरिक activist, statesman, और राजनयिक.
as a वैज्ञानिक, he थी a प्रमुख figure in the अमरीकी आत्मज्ञान and the history of भौतिकी for उसके discoveries और theories regarding विद्युत.
he invented the lightning rod, bifocals, the फ्रैंकलिन स्टोव, a carriage odometer, और the कांच 'armonica '.
He facilitated अनेक civic संगठन, including a आग विभाग और a university.
Franklin earned the title of `` The First अमरीकी '' for उसके जल्दी और indefatigable campaigning लिये औपनिवेशिक unity ; as an लेखक and spokesman in लंदन for several colonies, तब as the first United States दूत to फ़्रांस, he सरंचनाओं the emerging अमरीकी स्वदेश.
फ्रैंकलिन was foundational in धमक the अमरीकी ethos as a विवाह of the व्यावहारिक मान of thrift, hard कार्य, education, community spirit, self-governing संस्थानों, and विपक्ष to authoritarianism दोनो राजनैतिक and धार्मिक, साथ the वैज्ञानिक and सहिष्णु मान of the Enlightenment.
In the words of इतिहासकार हेनरी स्टील commager, `` In a Franklin could be मिलाया the virtues of puritanism बगैर इसके defects, the illumination of the आत्मज्ञान बगैर इसके heat. ''
to Walter isaacson, this makes फ्रैंकलिन `` the सबसे accomplished अमरीकी of उसके age और the सबसे influential in inventing the प्रकार of समाज America होता become. ''
Franklin, सदा proud of his working क्लास जड़ें, became a कामयाब newspaper editor और मुद्रक in Philadelphia, the leading city in the colonies.
He was also partners साथ विलियम Goddard और जोसेफ गैलोवे the तीन of whom published the पेन्सिलवेनिया Chronicle, a newspaper कि was ज्ञात for इसके revolutionary sentiments और आलोचनाओं of the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य in the अमरीकी colonies.
He became धनवान प्रकाशन ग़रीब Richard 's Almanack and the पेन्सिलवेनिया गजट.
फ्रैंकलिन gained international renown as a वैज्ञानिक लिये his प्रसिद्ध प्रयोग in electricity और लिये उसके अनेक आविष्कारों, especially the बिजली लाठी.
he played a major भूमिका in establishing the University of पेन्सिलवेनिया और was elected the पहला अध्यक्ष of the American philosophical समाज.
Franklin became a national hero in अमेरिका when he पथप्रदर्शन the effort to have Parliament repeal the unpopular स्टैम्प अधिनियम.
An संपन्नता राजनयिक, he was widely admired among the French as अमरीकी मंत्री to Paris और was a major फिगर in the development of धनात्मक franco-american संबंध.
लिये अनेक सालो he थी the अंग्रेजों postmaster लिये the colonies, which enabled him to नियत up the पहला नेशनल संचार संजाल.
he थी active in community अफेयर्स, औपनिवेशिक और state राजनीती, as well as नेशनल और अंतरराष्ट्रीय affairs.
इससे 1785 to 1788, he परोसा as राज्यपाल of पेन्सिलवेनिया.
toward the समाप्त of उसके जीवन, he freed his स्लेव और became one of the सबसे prominent abolitionists.
His colorful जीवन और legacy of वैज्ञानिक and political achievement, और औकात as एक of America 's सबसे influential Founding fathers, have seen Franklin सम्मानित on coinage और money ; warships ; the names of many towns, काउंटी, शैक्षणिक संस्थानों, namesakes, और कंपनियाँ ; और more than two सदियां बाद उसके death, countless सांस्कृतिक सन्दर्भ.
दण्ड Minds is an American पुलिस प्रक्रियात्मक टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम कि premiered सितंबर 22, 2005, on सीबीएस.
The श्रेणी follows a टोली of profilers इससे the FBI 's behavioral विश्लेषण ईकाई ( BAU ) based in Quantico, वर्जिनिया.
the bau is part of the एफबीआई National बीच for the विश्लेषण of Violent अपराधों.
the show differs इससे अनेक procedural dramas by focusing on प्रोफाइलिंग the दण्ड, rather than the crime itself.
the दिखाएँ is produced by the चिह्नित गॉर्डन Company in association with सीबीएस Television studios ( originally सर्वोपरि Network Television तब सीबीएस सर्वोपरि Network Television ) और एबीसी studios ( originally Touchstone टेलीविज़न ).
सीबीएस announced in अक्तूबर 2009 that विरासत Interactive would develop a video खेल based on the दिखाएँ.
the game would require players to जाँचें अपराधों दृश्यों लिये clues to सहायता solve हत्या रहस्यों.
the इंटरैक्टिव puzzle खेल थी released in 2012, लकिन did नहीं विशेषता any of the आवाज़ें of the show 's cast, nor was the डाल involved साथ the project.
on March 14, 2012, CBS renewed दण्ड minds लिये an आठवीं season, which premiered on September 26, 2012.
`` heart-shaped बक्सा '' is a song by the American grunge band Nirvana, लिखा by vocalist और guitarist Kurt कोबेन.
The सोंग was released as the first single इससे the group 's third और final स्टुडियो album, in utero, in 1993.
it was one of दो songs इससे the एल्बम मिश्रित by Scott litt in अनुक्रम to augment the असली production by निर्माता स्टीव Albini.
जबकि निर्वाण 's लेबल DGC Records किया नहीं release a physical सिंगल लिये बिक्री in the संयुक्त States, `` heart-shaped बक्सा '' प्राप्त much American रेडियो airplay, reaching number एक on the Billboard आधुनिक Rock Tracks चार्ट.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय release of the single पहुँचे क्रमांक पाँच on the uk Singles Chart.
the song 's म्यूज़िक video, निर्देशित by Anton Corbijn, garnered critical plaudits.
The orbital गति of a body, generally a ग्रह, a प्राकृतिक उपग्रह, an artificial उपग्रह, or a अनेक star, is the speed at which it orbits around the barycenter of a प्रणाली, प्रायः around a अधिक विशाल देह.
It can be प्रयुक्त to refer to either the mean कक्षीय गति, the औसत गति as it completes an कक्षा, or instantaneous orbital गति, the speed at a particular पाइंट in इसके कक्षा.
The orbital speed at कोई स्थिति in the orbit can be computed इससे the अलहदा to the सेंट्रल body at कि स्थिति, और the विशिष्ट कक्षीय उर्जा, जिससे is स्वतंत्र of position : the गतिज उर्जा is the कुल उर्जा minus the potential उर्जा.
Brown राजमहल आंतरिक और अलिंद
Brown राजमहल होटल is the second-oldest operating होटल in डेनवर, Colorado और is एक of the first atrium-style होटल ever निर्मित.
It is now operated by Quorum होटल और रिसॉर्ट.
it थी निर्मित in 1892, one year later than the ऑक्सफोर्ड होटल.
It थी नामित लिये its असली owner, Henry C. भूरा, and थी designed with इसके odd triangular आकार by वास्तु फ़्रैंक edbrooke.
the hotel is स्तिथ at 321 17th st, डेनवर, CO between 17th Street, ब्रॉडवे and Tremont street/pl in downtown Denver पीछे the गणतंत्र प्लाजा.
the main प्रवेश door is on tremont Street.
dvd-video is a consumer वीडियो स्वरूप प्रयुक्त to स्टोर digital video on dvd discs, और is फिलहाल the dominant consumer वीडियो स्वरूप in Asia, North अमेरिका, यूरोपीय, और Australia.
discs using the dvd-video specification आवश्यकता a DVD ड्राइव और an h.262/mpeg-2 Part 2 डिकोडर ( e.g., a DVD player, or a कंप्यूटर dvd ड्राइव with a software dvd खिलाड़ी ).
वाणिज्यिक dvd फिल्मों are encoded using a संयोजन of H.262/MPEG-2 भाग 2 compressed वीडियो और audio of varying स्वरुप ( often multi-channel स्वरुप as वर्णित नीचे ).
typically, the data रेट लिये dvd फिल्मों सीमाएँ इससे 3 Mbit/s to 9.5 mbit/s, and the bit rate is प्रायः adaptive.
It was पहला उपलब्धियाँ लिये खुदरा around 1997.
the dvd-video specification थी created by dvd फ़ोरम and can be प्राप्त इससे DVD format/logo लाइसेंसिंग निगम लिये a fee of $ 5,000.
the specification is नहीं सरेआम उपलब्धियाँ, क्युकी every subscriber जरूर sign a non-disclosure agreement.
निश्चित सूचना in the dvd किताब is proprietary और गोपनीय.
the nautical मील ( प्रतीक M, nm or nmi ) is a ईकाई of लंबाई that is परिचय one मिनट of arc of अक्षांश measured साथ any मध्याह्न, or about one minute of arc of longitude at the equator.
By अंतरराष्ट्रीय अनुबंध it has been नियत at 1,852 metres exactly ( about 6,076 feet ).
it is a non- si ईकाई ( हालांकि accepted for use in the International प्रणाली of Units by the bipm ) प्रयुक्त विशेषकर by navigators in the शिपिंग और विमानन industries, and भी in ध्रुवीय खोजी.
it is commonly used in अंतरराष्ट्रीय विधि and treaties, विशेषकर regarding the हद of territorial waters.
it विकसित इससे the समुद्र मील और the सम्बन्धित भौगोलिक mile.
The nautical मील remains in use by समुद्र और एयर navigators worldwide क्युकी of इसके convenience जब working with charts.
सबसे nautical charts उपयोग the मर्केटर projection जिनकी scale varies by परिचय a फ़ैक्टर of छह from the equator to 80° अक्षांश, so चार्ट covering विशाल areas can not use a सिंगल रैखिक स्केल.
the nautical mile is nearly equal to a minute of अक्षांश on a chart, so a distance measured with a चार्ट divider can be roughly converted to nautical miles using the चार्ट 's अक्षांश स्केल.
Shippensburg is a borough in कम्बरलैंड और Franklin काउंटी in the u.S. state of पेन्सिलवेनिया.
settled in 1730, Shippensburg lies in the कम्बरलैंड घाटी, 41 मील ( 66 km ) west-southwest of Harrisburg, and is part of the Harrisburg– carlisle Metropolitan सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल.
In 1900, 3,228 लोगों lived there ; in 1910, 3,457 ; and in 1940, 5,244 लोगों lived वहीँ.
The जनसांख्यिकी was 5,492 at the 2010 census.
shippensburg थी incorporated as a borough on जनवरी 21, 1819.
in the past, वहीँ were furniture कारखानों, engine and pump works, और अन्य औद्योगिक works located भीतर the कस्बा.
shippensburg is भी the home of the Beistle Company, the oldest और largest निर्माता of सजावट and पार्टी goods, which बिकता its distinctive मधुकोश paper decorations worldwide.
it is also the स्थान of Pague और fegan, the oldest लगातार संचालित hardware store in पेन्सिलवेनिया.
In may 2012, वोल्वो निर्माण उपकरण began a $ 100 लाख विस्तार project to लाओ इसके American headquarters to shippensburg.
shippensburg is also घर to Shippensburg University of Pennsylvania, एक of 14 विश्वविद्यालयों of the पेन्सिलवेनिया State System of उच्चतर शिक्षा.
वार्षिक the पिछला full week of जुलाई, the shippensburg Community मेला is आयोजित.
begun in 1958, the मेला bills itself as Pennsylvania 's largest bi-county fair.
the fair includes agricultural दर्शाती, a शिल्प दिखाएँ, food vendors, और carnival यात्राएँ amongst अन्य बाते.
प्रत्येक गर्मियाँ on the last Saturday of अगस्त, Shippensburg holds the Corn पर्व, an इवेंट कि brings क्षेत्रीय artisans और विक्रेता to operate stands शहर.
The शहर is बंद to ट्रैफ़िक लिये at least 5 blocks लिये सबसे of the day.
Average उपस्थिति at the festival is अनुमानित at 60,000 - 70,000 प्रत्येक साल.
ब्लैक बालदार जीभ ( BHT, also termed lingua villosa nigra ) refers to a कंडीशन of the जीभ where the filiform papillae elongate साथ black or brown discoloration, giving a ब्लैक और बालदार रूप.
The appearance may be alarming, लकिन it is a हानिरहित condition.
predisposing factors शामिल धूम्रपान, xerostomia ( शुष्क मुँह ), नरम आहार, ग़रीब मौखिक hygiene and निश्चित medications.
प्रबन्धन is by improving oral hygiene, विशेषकर scraping or brushing the tongue.
the IEEE 1394 interface is a सीरियल बस इंटरफ़ेस मानक for high-speed communications and isochronous real-time data transfer.
It was विकसित in the लेट 1980s और जल्दी 1990s by Apple, जो called it firewire.
The 1394 इंटरफ़ेस is comparable to USB, and often those two technologies हैं माना साथ, हालांकि usb रै अधिक मार्केट share.
Apple first included FireWire in some of its 1999 मॉडल, और सबसे ठहराना computers since the साल 2000 have शामिल firewire पोर्ट, हालांकि, as of 2013, nothing beyond the 800 संस्करण ( IEEE-1394b ).
the इंटरफ़ेस is also ज्ञात by the ब्रांड i.LINK ( सोनी ), and Lynx ( Texas यंत्र ).
आईईईई 1394 replaced parallel scsi in अनेक अनुप्रयोग, क्युकी of निम्नतर क्रियान्वयन लागत और a सरलीकृत, अधिक अनुकूलनीय cabling system.
the 1394 standard भी defines a backplane interface, though this is नहीं as widely प्रयुक्त.
आईईईई 1394 is the high-definition Audio-Video संजाल Alliance ( हाना ) मानक connection इंटरफ़ेस लिये A/V ( audio/visual ) component communication and control.
FireWire is also available in wireless, fiber ऑप्टिक, और समाक्षीय संस्करण using the isochronous प्रोटोकॉल.
स्टीफन `` Stevie '' रे vaughan ( अक्तूबर 3, 1954 – अगस्त 27, 1990 ) थी an अमरीकी guitarist, singer-songwriter, and रिकार्ड producer.
प्रायः referred to by his आद्याक्षर srv, Vaughan is बेहतरीन known as a founding सदस्य और leader of दोगुना ट्रबल.
साथ साथ वादक Chris Layton and bassist Tommy Shannon, वे ignited the blues पुनरुद्धार of the 1980s.
साथ a career spanning सात सालो, Vaughan और दोगुना ट्रबल consistently बेची out कॉन्सर्ट जबकि their एल्बम frequently गई सुनहरा.
He was born और raised in Dallas, टेक्सास, और लिये a छोटी period of समय जिया in ग्राहम, Texas.
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan, vaughan प्रारंभ playing the गिटार at age seven और formed several bands that occasionally performed in लोकल nightclubs.
at age 17, he dropped out of high स्कूल and moved to ऑस्टिन to further pursue उसके musical करियर, joining समूह ऐसे as Krackerjack, the Nightcrawlers, and the cobras.
in 1977, he formed ट्रिपल Threat Revue, a बैंड कि आखिरकार विकसित into Double ट्रबल और regularly performed around Austin.
in 1982, Vaughan और दोगुना ट्रबल performed at the montreux Jazz Festival in स्विट्ज़रलैंड, catching the ध्यान of musicians दाउद बोवी और जैक्सन browne.
Bowie पूछा vaughan to खेल on his upcoming स्टुडियो album Let 's Dance, while Browne offered the band फ़्री उपयोग of his personal studio in लॉस Angeles to रिकार्ड an album.
in कूच 1983, Vaughan और Double Trouble were हस्ताक्षरित to एपिक Records by veteran रिकार्ड producer John हैमंड Sr. and released their debut album, Texas Flood in जून of कि साल.
After कामयाब touring, the समूह released the एल्बम, could n't स्टैंड the मौसम ( 1984 ) और आत्मा to Soul ( 1985 ), the latter of जिससे प्रदर्शित new keyboardist रीज़ wynans.
Although उसके करियर था progressed successfully, vaughan checked into a पुनर्वास हॉस्पिटल in अटलांटा, Georgia to give up a कोका और दारू आदत और लौटे to touring साथ the बैंड.
in June 1989, in कदम थी released और earned उन्हें a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन समकालीन Blues Performance.
on August 27, 1990, vaughan was killed in a helicopter crash following a प्रदर्शन in East ट्रॉय, विस्कॉन्सिन.
vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet intense स्टाइल was निकला इससे a variety of musical जाति.
He थी बहकावे by blues musicians सहित अल्बर्ट किंग, फ्रेडी किंग, Otis Rush, and muddy Waters, और चट्टान guitarists ऐसे as Jimi Hendrix और Lonnie mack.
His गिटार playing reflected the क्लासिक blues और pentatonic तराजू.
He has received wide नाजुक मान्यता लिये उसके गिटार playing, ranking at # 6 on रोलिंग Stones list of `` 100 महानतम guitarists '' in 2011.
He थी posthumously inducted into the ब्लूज़ हॉल of Fame in 2000 और a memorial प्रतिमा was erected in ऑस्टिन 's ऑडिटोरियम shores पार्क.
स्टीवी रे vaughan is widely माना to be one of the महानतम संगीतकारों to आइये from the राज्य of टेक्सास.
gige redirects यहाँ.
लिये the कैमरा प्रोटोकॉल, देखिए gige vision.
in कंप्यूटर networking, gigabit Ethernet ( GbE or 1 gige ) is a पद describing various technologies for transmitting Ethernet फ्रेम्स at a रेट of a gigabit per दूसरी ( 1,000,000,000 बिट्स per दूसरी ), as पारिभाषित by the IEEE 802.3-2008 standard.
it came into उपयोग beginning in 1999, धीरे supplanting Fast ईथरनेट in तार local संजाल, where it performed considerably तेज़.
the केबल और उपकरण हैं बहुत समान to पिछला मानकों and were very आम और economical by 2010.
half-duplex gigabit कड़ी connected through hubs हैं allowed by the specification, लकिन full-duplex usage with switches is much अधिक common.
Intel pro/1000 GT PCI संजाल interface कार्ड
The प्रमुख components of a stamp:
1. चित्र
2. perforations
3. Denomination
4. Country नाम
A postage stamp is a small टुकड़ा of paper कि is purchased और प्रदर्शित on an item of मेल as प्रमाण of भुगतान of postage.
Typically, stamps हैं बना from खास paper, with a national designation and denomination ( दाम ) on the face, और a गम चिपकने on the रिवर्स पक्ष.
postage stamps हैं खरीदा from a postal प्रशासन or other authorized विक्रेता और are used to अदा for the costs शामिल in चलती मेल as well as अन्य business necessities ऐसे as बीमे and registration.
the stamp’s shape is प्रायः कि of a छोटी आयताकार of varying proportions, हालांकि त्रिकोण or अन्य shapes हैं occasionally प्रयुक्त.
the स्टैम्प is affixed to an लिफाफा or अन्य डाक cover ( i.e., पैकेट, बक्सा, mailing बेलन ) कि the customer wishes to भेजें.
the item is तब processed by the postal प्रणाली, जहाँ a postmark, sometimes known as a रद्दीकरण चिह्नित, is प्रायः applied over the stamp और कवर ; this कार्यविधि marks the stamp as used, which रोकता इसके reuse.
the postmark indicates the तिथि and पाइंट of उत्पत्ति of the mailing.
The mailed मद is तब वितरित to the पता कि the customer has applied to the लिफाफा or कवर.
Postage stamps have facilitated the डिलीवरी of mail चूंकि the 1840s.
पहले इस time, ink और hand-stamps ( hence the word 'stamp ' ), usually बना इससे लकडी or cork, were often used to frank the मेल और confirm the भुगतान of postage.
The पहला adhesive postage स्टैम्प, commonly referred to as the Penny Black, थी जारी in the United किंगडम in 1840.
the invention of the stamp थी a भाग of the attempt to सुधार and improve the postal system in the संयुक्त Kingdom of ग्रेट Britain and आयरलैंड, जिससे in the early 19th सदी थी in अस्तव्यस्तता और rife साथ भ्रष्टाचार.
There are varying खाते of the आविष्कारक or inventors of the स्टैम्प.
पहले the परिचय of postage stamps, मेल in the uk was paid लिये by the प्राप्तकर्ता, a system कि was associated with an irresolvable प्रॉब्लम : the costs of delivering mail यहूद not recoverable by the डाक service जब recipients यहूद असमर्थ or unwilling to अदा लिये वितरित वस्तुएं, and प्रेषकों था no incentive to सीमित the क्रमांक, आकार, or weight of वस्तुएं भेजा, whether or not वे would ultimately be सशुल्क लिये.
The postage stamp resolved this समस्या in a सरल और सुरुचिपूर्ण manner, with the अतिरिक्त लाभ of room for an तत्व of beauty to be introduced.
बाद सम्बन्धित आविष्कारों शामिल डाक stationery ऐसे as prepaid-postage लिफाफे, post cards, lettercards, aerogrammes and wrappers, postage मीटर, and, अधिक recently, specialty boxes and लिफाफे provided फ़्री to the ग्राहक by the u.S. postal सेवा लिये priority or express mailing.
the postage stamp afforded convenience लिये both the मेलर and postal officials, more efficiently बरामद लागत लिये the postal service, and ultimately resulted in a बेहतर, faster डाक प्रणाली.
With the conveniences stamps offered, उनके उपयोग resulted in greatly increased mailings during the 19th और 20th सदियां.
postage stamps during इस era यहूद the most लोकप्रिय रास्ता of paying for मेल, लकिन by the end of the 20th century यहूद rapidly होने आत by the उपयोग of metered postage और बल्क mailing by व्यवसायों. )
the same परिणाम साथ आदर to communications by निजी parties occurred over the पिछला दशक of the 20th century और the first दशक of the 21st due to declining cost of long अलहदा telephone संचार and the development and explosive स्प्रेड of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक mailing ( `` e-mail '' via the Internet ) और bill paying प्रणालियों had.
As postage stamps साथ their engraved imagery began to appear on a फैली आधार, historians और collectors began to take notice.
The पढ़ाई of postage stamps and उनके उपयोग is referred to as philately.
Stamp collecting can be both a शौक and a रूप of historical study और सन्दर्भ, as government-issued postage stamps and their mailing प्रणालियों have always महरूम शामिल साथ the history of राष्ट्र.
the विश्वविद्यालयों of अलबामा at Birmingham ( uab ) is a पब्लिक विश्वविद्यालयों in Birmingham in the u.S. राज्य of अलबामा.
Developing इससे an एक्सटेंशन center established in 1936, the संस्था became an autonomous institution in 1969 और is आज एक of तीन संस्थानों in the University of Alabama प्रणाली.
UAB offers over 140 कार्यक्रम of पढ़ाई in 12 अकादमिक divisions leading to स्नातक 's, master 's, doctoral, और professional डिग्री in the सोशल और behavioral sciences, the liberal arts, कारोबार, शिक्षा, engineering, and health-related fields ऐसे as medicine, dentistry, optometry, नर्सिंग, और पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य.
the school is अत्यधिक renowned लिये its चिकित्सा शोध और प्राकृतिक sciences programs.
The UAB Health प्रणाली, one of the largest अकादमिक medical centers in the United राज्य, is संबद्ध साथ the university.
UAB Hospital sponsors रेसिडेंसी कार्यक्रम in various चिकित्सा specialties, सहित internal medicine, neurology, surgery, radiology, and anesthesiology.
uab Hospital is the only acs सत्यापित स्तर I trauma center in Alabama, as रेटेड by the American College of अध्येतावृत्ति Trauma कार्यक्रम.
uab is the राज्य 's largest नियोक्ता, साथ अधिक than 18,000 संकाय and staff and over 53,000 कार्य at the विश्वविद्यालयों और in the स्वास्थ्य प्रणाली.
an अनुमानित 10 प्रतिशत of the कार्य in the birmingham-hoover महानगर क्षेत्रफल और 1 in 33 jobs in the state of Alabama are directly or indirectly सम्बन्धित to UAB.
the university 's overall सालाना economic impact was estimated to be $ 4.6 अरब in 2010.
in the पतन of 2012, the University of अलबामा at बर्मिंघम नामांकित 17,999 विद्यार्थी from more than 110 countries, सहित 1,605 freshmen.
वहीँ हैं plans to commence साथ an `` आक्रामक '' विकास in enrollment at UAB.
The वर्तमान UAB अध्यक्ष is dr. रे L. Watts.
Tofu, also called सेम दही, is a खाना बना by coagulating सोया रस और तब दबाने the resulting curds into soft white blocks.
it is a घटक in अनेक ईस्ट Asian और southeast Asian cuisines.
वहीँ are अनेक अलग किस्में of टोफू, सहित fresh tofu और टोफू कि has महरूम processed in some way.
टोफू रै a हल्का स्वाद और can be प्रयुक्त in savory और मीठी बर्तन.
It is often seasoned or marinated to suit the डिश.
Tofu originated in प्राचीन चीन some 2,000 सालो ago.
Chinese लेजेंड ascribes इसके invention to प्रिंस लियू an ( Chinese : 劉安 liú ān, 179–122 bc ).
Tofu and इसके उत्पादन तकनीक यहूद introduced into Korea and तब जापानी दौरान the Nara काल.
it स्प्रेड into अन्य भाग of ईस्ट Asia as well.
इस spread संभावित coincided साथ the स्प्रेड of Buddhism क्युकी it is an महत्वपूर्ण source of प्रोटीन in the शाकाहारी आहार of ईस्ट एशियाई Buddhism.
li shizhen in the मिंग राजवंश वर्णित a method of बनाना टोफू in bencao gangmu.
टोफू रै a कम calorie गिनती, अपेक्षाकृत विशाल amounts of protein, and छोटी fat.
it is ऊँची in आयरन and depending on the coagulant प्रयुक्त in manufacturing, may भी be ऊँची in calcium and/or magnesium.
बुलबुले ( born 1983 ) is a common chimpanzee, known for being the one-time पालतु of अमरीकी रिकॉर्डिंग artist माइकल जैक्सन, who खरीदा the primate इससे a टेक्सास research facility in the जल्दी 1980s.
the एनिमल was a बारंबार सफर companion to the singer, जिनकी अनुलग्नक to the एनिमल led to media mockery and, among other कारकों, to a पब्लिक बोध of जैक्सन as an eccentric.
दौरान the ख़राब World Tour, for example, जैक्सन brought बुलबुले साथ उसे to जापानी, जहाँ वे दोनो पिया tea with the महापौर of ओसाका.
Bubbles थी initially kept at the जैक्सन family 's घर in encino, Los Angeles, लकिन थी स्थानांतरित to neverland ranch in 1988.
There, he slept in a crib in जैक्सन 's बेडरूम, used the सिंगर 's toilet, और ate कैंडी in the Neverland फिल्म theater.
in 2003 the public सीखे कि, like सब खिलाते chimpanzees, बुलबुले था matured into a large and aggressive वयस्क chimp unsuitable as a साथी एनिमल.
he was भेजा to a कैलिफ़ोर्निया animal प्रशिक्षक, where he थी reported to have attempted suicide.
जब the trainer shut bas his आपरेशन in 2004, बुलबुले थी moved to the बीच for ग्रेट Apes, a अभयारण्य in Wauchula, फ्लोरिडा, जहाँ he has lived since 2005.
चिंतन are an English चट्टान band इससे teignmouth, देवों, जिससे formed in 1994.
The band consists of school मित्रों Matthew bellamy ( सीसे vocals, सीसे गिटार, पियानो, keyboards, keytar ), क्रिस्टोफर wolstenholme ( बास, vocals, keyboards, rhythm guitar, harmonica ) and डोमिनिक Howard ( drums, percussion, synthesisers, sampling ).
चूंकि the रिलीज of their 2006 एल्बम Black Holes and Revelations, keyboardist और percussionist Morgan Nicholls रै performed सजीव साथ the band.
Muse हैं known for their ऊर्जावान and extravagant सजीव प्रदर्शन और their संलयन of अनेक म्यूज़िक genres, including स्पेस rock, प्रगतिशील चट्टान, वैकल्पिक चट्टान, भारी मेटल, शास्त्रीय म्यूज़िक और electronica.
Muse have released छह स्टुडियो albums : showbiz ( 1999 ), उत्पत्ति of सममिति ( 2001 ), absolution ( 2003 ), ब्लैक Holes और Revelations ( 2006 ), the प्रतिरोध ( 2009 ) and the 2nd Law ( 2012 ).
They have भी जारी तीन सजीव एल्बम, hullabaloo Soundtrack ( 2002 ), जिससे is भी a संकलन of b-sides, absolution दौरे ( 2005 ), और haarp ( 2008 ), जिससे documents the band 's प्रदर्शन at वेम्बली Stadium in 2007.
ब्लैक Holes और खुलासे अर्जित the band a Mercury पुरस्कार नामांकन और a तीसरा प्लेस समाप्त in the nme Albums of the Year list लिये 2006.
चिंतन have also जीती a collection of म्यूज़िक awards throughout उनके history, सहित five MTV यूरोपीय Music पुरस्कार, छह Q Awards, आठ nme Awards, दो Brit पुरस्कार —winning `` Best British Live अधिनियम '' twice, an MTV वीडियो Music Award, four kerrang !
पुरस्कार and an American Music Award.
They were also nominated लिये पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, of जिससे वे won Best चट्टान Album, लिये their fifth स्टुडियो एल्बम The प्रतिरोध ( 2009 ).
Muse have sold over 15 लाख एल्बम विश्वव्यापी.
bloemfontein (, ; डच लिये `` fountain of पुष्प '' ) is the पूंजी नगर of the फ़्री राज्य Province of दक्षिण Africa ; और, as the judicial पूंजी of the स्वदेश, एक of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी 's तीन नेशनल capitals – the अन्य two होने Cape Town, the विधान पूंजी, and Pretoria, the प्रशासनिक पूंजी.
bloemfontein is popularly और poetically ज्ञात as `` the नगर of roses ``, owing to the प्रचुरता of ये पुष्प और the annual रोज़ पर्व आयोजित वहीँ.
the नगर 's Sesotho नाम is Mangaung, अर्थ `` प्लेस of cheetahs `` and it रै been शामिल in the mangaung Local Municipality चूंकि 2000.
Bloemfontein is situated on शुष्क घासभूमि at, at an altitude of ऊपर समुद्र level.
The नगर is घर to 369,568 residents, जबकि the mangaung लोकल नगरपालिका has a population of 645,455.
जहाँ do we Come From ?
What हैं We ?
जहाँ Are we going ?
एक of post-impressionist पॉल gauguin 's सबसे प्रसिद्ध paintings.
The अर्थ of जीवन is a philosophical question concerning the significance of जीवन or अस्तित्व in सामान्य.
it can भी be expressed in different forms, ऐसे as `` Why are we here ? ``, `` What is जीवन सब about ? ``, and `` What is the purpose of existence ? ''
it has महरूम the subject of much philosophical, scientific, और theological अटकलें throughout इतिहास.
There have महरूम a विशाल क्रमांक of प्रस्तावित answers to these questions इससे many different cultural और वैचारिक पृष्ठभूमि.
the अर्थ of life is in the philosophical और religious conceptions of existence, सोशल ties, चेतना, and happiness, और borders on अनेक other मुद्दे, such as सांकेतिक meaning, सत्तामीमांसा, value, purpose, आचार, शुभ और evil, फ़्री will, the अस्तित्व of एक or अनेक देवताओं, conceptions of परमेश्वर, the आत्मा, and the आफ्टरलाइफ.
वैज्ञानिक contributions फ़ोकस primarily on describing सम्बन्धित अनुभवजन्य तथ्य परिचय the ब्रह्मांड, exploring the context और पैरामीटर्स concerning the 'how ' of life.
विज्ञान also अध्ययन and can provide सुझाव for the pursuit of well-being और a सम्बन्धित conception of नैतिकता.
An वैकल्पिक, humanistic दृष्टिकोण poses the question `` कया is the meaning of my life ? ''
the value of the question pertaining to the purpose of life may coincide साथ the achievement of परम वास्तविकता, or a अहसास of oneness, or भी a feeling of sacredness.
परिवार guy निर्माता सेठ MacFarlane also provides the आवाज़ें of पीटर griffin, Stewie griffin, ब्रायन griffin, और ग्लेन Quagmire.
परिवार guy is an American animated sitcom that सुविधाएँ पाँच main voice actors, और numerous नियमित cast और पुनरावर्ती अतिथि सितारों.
the प्रिंसिपल आवाज़ डाल consists of दिखाएँ निर्माता सेठ macfarlane, Alex borstein, Seth ग्रीन, mila kunis ( who replaced Lacey Chabert after the पहला season ) और Mike Henry और अभी, the नई कर्ता beau ओसबोर्न.
पुनरावर्ती आवाज़ अभिनेताओं शामिल Patrick warburton, आदम West, जॉन G. Brennan, निकोल सुलीवान और Jennifer tilly, और repeat guest stars include फिलिस Diller, चार्ल्स Durning, फटाफट Limbaugh, और Phil lamarr.
अनेक डाल सदस्यों provide आवाज़ें for अनेक वर्ण.
the आवाज़ actors, in portraying the विभिन्न character personalities on the show, draw inspiration इससे हस्तियाँ और पॉप culture.
Family guy वर्ण have महरूम निभाई by अधिक than एक कर्ता, बाद सदस्यों of the दिखाएँ left the series or था conflicting दायित्वों.
kunis थी nominated लिये an एनी Award लिये voicing Meg griffin in the ऋतु 5 एपीसोड `` Barely Legal `` और macfarlane has also won an Emmy पुरस्कार for बकाया voice-over प्रदर्शन और an Annie Award for बेहतरीन आवाज़ एक्टिंग in an Animated टेलीविज़न उत्पादन, though no अन्य डाल member रै जीती an पुरस्कार लिये उनके कार्य on the श्रेणी.
1911 Illustration by Edmund dulac
`` the Princess और the Pea '' ( ; शाब्दिक अनुवाद : `` the राजकुमारी on the मटर '' ) is a literary परी टेल by hans Christian andersen about a यंग woman whose royal पहचान is स्थापित by a परीक्षण of उसके शारीरिक sensitivity.
the टेल थी first प्रकाशित साथ तीन अन्य by andersen in an inexpensive पुस्तिका on 8 May 1835 in कोपेनहेगन by c.a. reitzel.
andersen था सुना the स्टोरी as a child, and it संभावित has its source in लोक सामग्री, possibly originating इससे Sweden as it is अनजान in the Danish oral परंपरा.
neither `` the राजकुमारी and the मटर '' nor andersen 's अन्य किस्से of 1835 were खूब received by Danish critics, जो disliked their casual, chatty स्टाइल, और उनके कमी of नैतिकता.
in 1959 `` the राजकुमारी और the मटर '' was adapted to the musical स्टेज in a production पुकारा एकबार Upon a Mattress अभिनीत Carol burnett.
जर्मनी अमेरिकी ( ) are citizens of the संयुक्त States who यहूद either born in Germany or are of जर्मनी ancestry.
वे comprise परिचय 50 लाख people, बनाना them the largest ancestry समूह ahead of आयरिश अमेरिकी, अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी और अंग्रेज़ी Americans.
वे comprise परिचय 1/3 of the जर्मनी diaspora all over the संसार.
none of the जर्मनी states था नई संसार colonies.
Not जबतक the 1670s किया the first significant groups of German आप्रवासियों arrive in the अंग्रेजों colonies, settling primarily in New York and पेन्सिलवेनिया.
आव्रजन जारी in very large numbers दौरान the 19th century, with कुछ आठ million आमद from Germany.
वे यहूद खींचा by the attractions of land और धार्मिक स्वतंत्रता, and pushed out of यूरोपीय by shortages of land और religious or राजनैतिक oppression.
अनेक arrived seeking धार्मिक or political स्वतंत्रता, others लिये economic opportunities greater than those in यूरोपीय, और अन्य simply लिये the chance to प्रारंभ भैस in the New World.
the आमद पहले 1850 यहूद ज़्यादातर farmers जो sought आउट the most productive land, where उनके intensive खेती तकनीकों would pay बंद.
बाद 1840, many आए to शहरों, जहाँ `` germania '' —german-speaking districts—soon उभरा.
जर्मनी Americans स्थापित the पहला kindergartens in the संयुक्त राज्य, introduced the क्रिसमस पेड़ tradition, and originated popular अमरीकी foods such as hot dogs और hamburgers.
जर्मनी अमरीकी celebrations हैं आयोजित throughout the country, one of the सबसे well-known being the german-american Steuben परेड in नई यॉर्क City, आयोजित प्रत्येक third शनिवार in सितंबर.
There are also major सालाना events in Chicago, सिनसिनाटी, मिल्वौकी, Pittsburgh, st. Louis और other cities.
जैसे अनेक other आप्रवासियों कि आए to the संयुक्त राज्य, an overwhelming क्रमांक of लोगों of German or partial German descent have essentially become Americanized.
The Preamble to the संयुक्त States Constitution is a ब्रैड परिचयात्मक statement of the Constitution 's fundamental उद्देश्य and guiding सिद्धान्त.
It states in general शर्तें, and courts have referred to it as विश्वसनीय evidence of, the founding Fathers ' intentions regarding the Constitution 's अर्थ और कया वे hoped the संविधान would achieve as it pertains to सब of the people of the संयुक्त States.
as the phrase, `` we the people '' suggests that the नई सरकारी originates इससे the लोगों of the United States और it सेट into motion a question as it pertains to कि विशाल जनसांख्यिकी concerning the individual अधिकारों और equality among सब people ; this can be seen सबसे broadly in the divide between republicanism and social democracy.
the इतिहास of the अंतरजाल began साथ the development of electronic कंप्यूटर in the 1950s.
the पब्लिक was first introduced to the concepts कि would सीसे to the Internet when a message was भेजा over the ARPANet इससे computer विज्ञान Professor लियोनार्ड kleinrock 's प्रयोगशाला at विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, Los एंजिल्स ( ucla ), बाद the दूसरी टुकड़ा of network उपकरण थी installed at Stanford Research संस्थान ( श्री ).
Packet switched networks such as ARPANET, Mark i at npl in the uk, cyclades, मेरिट संजाल, tymnet, और telenet, यहूद developed in the लेट 1960s और early 1970s using a किस्में of protocols.
the arpanet in particular led to the विकास of प्रोटोकॉल लिये internetworking, in which अनेक separate networks could be joined साथ into a network of networks.
in 1982, the Internet प्रोटोकॉल सुइट ( TCP/IP ) थी मानकीकृत, and consequently, the अवधारणा of a world-wide network of interconnected tcp/ip networks, पुकारा the अंतरजाल, थी introduced.
Access to the arpanet was expanded in 1981 जब the नेशनल Science न्यास ( NSF ) विकसित the कंप्यूटर विज्ञान संजाल ( CSNET ) and again in 1986 when nsfnet provided अभिगम to supercomputer sites in the संयुक्त States इससे research और education organizations.
वाणिज्यिक Internet सेवा providers ( isps ) began to emerge in the late 1980s and जल्दी 1990s.
the ARPANET was decommissioned in 1990.
the Internet थी commercialized in 1995 जब nsfnet थी decommissioned, निकालना the पिछला प्रतिबंध on the उपयोग of the अंतरजाल to carry वाणिज्यिक traffic.
Since the mid-1990s, the अंतरजाल रै था a revolutionary impact on संस्कृति and कॉमर्स, including the rise of near-instant संचार by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक मेल, तत्काल messaging, Voice over अंतरजाल Protocol ( VoIP ) `` फोन काल्स '', two-way इंटरैक्टिव video calls, और the World Wide वेब with its discussion forums, blogs, सोशल नेटवर्किंग, और online shopping sites.
the शोध और education जातियाँ continues to develop and उपयोग advanced संजाल such as NSF 's very ऊँची गति रीढ़ Network Service ( vbns ), internet2, और नेशनल LambdaRail.
increasing amounts of data हैं transmitted at higher and उच्चतर speeds over रेशा ऑप्टिक संजाल ऑपरेटिंग at 1-gbit/s, 10-gbit/s, or अधिक.
The Internet 's takeover over the वैश्विक संचार लैंडस्केप थी लगभग instant in ऐतिहासिक शर्तें : it तभी communicated 1 % of the सूचना बहती through two-way दूरसंचार संजाल in the साल 1993, already 51 % by 2000, and अधिक than 97 % of the telecommunicated सूचना by 2007.
Today the Internet continues to grow, चलित by कभी greater amounts of ऑनलाइन सूचना, कॉमर्स, entertainment, and social networking.
दक्षिणपश्चिम Airlines co. ( ) is a major U.S. एयरलाइन और the world 's largest low-cost वाहक, headquartered in डलास, टेक्सास.
It थी स्थापित in 1967 और अपनाया its वर्तमान नाम in 1971.
the airline has अधिक than 46,000 कर्मचारी और operates more than 3,400 फ़्लाइट प्रति day.
as of जून 5, 2011, it carries the सबसे domestic passengers of कोई u.S. airline.
As of April 2013, दक्षिणपश्चिम एयरलाइंस रै scheduled service to 84 destinations in 41 राज्य and Puerto Rico.
Southwest एयरलाइंस रै solely संचालित Boeing 737s, except for a few सालो in the 1970s और 1980s, when it संचालित Boeing 727s.
as of अगस्त 2012, दक्षिणपश्चिम is the largest operator of the 737 विश्वव्यापी साथ over 550 in service, each ऑपरेटिंग an average of six flights प्रति दिन.
in may 2011, the एयरलाइन acquired airtran एयरवेज़, साथ संयोजन of the carriers expected to be पूरा by 2014.
On कूच 1, 2012, the कम्पनी थी issued a सिंगल operating प्रमाणपत्र, technically becoming one airline.
Rolling चट्टान is a 4.6 % abv pale lager launched in 1939 by the latrobe Brewing कम्पनी.
Although founded as a लोकल बियर in पश्चिमी पेन्सिलवेनिया, it थी marketed aggressively और eventually became a national product.
The ब्रांड थी बेची to anheuser-busch of St. Louis, मिसौरी, in mid 2006, जिससे transferred brewing operations to नई Jersey.
बेनेडिक्ट xvi (,, ; born जोसेफ aloisius ratzinger on 16 अप्रैल 1927 ) is Pope emeritus of the कैथोलिक Church.
he परोसा as पोप from 2005 to 2013.
In that स्थिति, he थी both the leader of the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर और sovereign of the Vatican नगर State.
Benedict थी निर्वाचित on 19 अप्रैल 2005 in a papal conclave, मनाये his papal Inauguration Mass on 24 अप्रैल 2005, और took possession of his cathedral, the archbasilica of st. John lateran, on 7 may 2005.
ordained as a पुजारी in 1951 in उसके देशी Bavaria, ratzinger स्थापित himself as a अत्यधिक regarded university theologian by the late 1950s and was नियुक्त a पूरा professor in 1958.
बाद a long career as an अकादमिक, सेवारत as a प्राध्यापक of धर्मशास्त्र at अनेक German universities—the पिछला होने the विश्वविद्यालयों of Regensburg, जहाँ he परोसा as वाइस अध्यक्ष of the university in 1976 और 1977—he was appointed archbishop of म्यूनिख और Freising और कार्डिनल by Pope Paul vi in 1977, an असामान्य प्रमोशन लिये someone साथ छोटी लुभावने अनुभव.
In 1981, he settled in रोम when he became prefect of the सभा लिये the doctrine of the Faith, one of the most महत्वपूर्ण dicasteries of the Roman curia.
इससे 2002 until उसके election as pope, he was also Dean of the College of कार्डिनल्स, और as such, the प्राइमस inter pares among the कार्डिनल्स.
prior to becoming pope, he थी `` a प्रमुख figure on the वेटिकन stage for a क्वार्टर of a century '' as `` एक of the सबसे respected, influential and विवादास्पद सदस्यों of the College of कार्डिनल्स '' ; he था an influence `` दूसरी to none when it came to सेटिंग church प्राथमिकताएं and दिशानिर्देश '' as one of Pope जॉन पॉल ii 's closest confidants.
he थी originally a उदार theologian, but adopted रूढ़िवादी दृश्य after 1968.
उसके सफल कृतियाँ defend परंपरागत कैथोलिक doctrine and values.
दौरान his papacy, Benedict xvi advocated a वापसी to आधारभूत Christian मान to काउंटर the increased secularisation of many पश्चिमी देशों.
he views relativism 's denial of objective सच्चाई, और the denial of moral truths in particular, as the central problem of the 21st century.
he taught the importance of both the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर और an understanding of परमेश्वर 's redemptive love.
पोप बेनेडिक्ट also revived a क्रमांक of परंपराओं including elevating the tridentine Mass to a more prominent position.
he नवीनीकृत the relationship between the Catholic गिरिजाघर और आर्ट, viewing the उपयोग of सौंदर्य as a पाथ to the sacred, promoted the use of लैटिन, और reintroduced traditional papal garments, लिये जिससे कारण he थी पुकारा `` the pope of aesthetics ''.
he रै महरूम described as `` the प्रमुख बौद्धिक force in the Church '' चूंकि the mid-1980s.
अनेक of पोप बेनेडिक्ट 's students इससे उसके अकादमिक career are also prominent churchmen आज और confidantes of him, notably क्रिस्टोफ schönborn.
on 11 February 2013, पोप Benedict घोषित his इस्तीफा in a वाक in लैटिन पहले the cardinals, citing a `` कमी of शक्ति of mind and देह '' due to his उन्नत age.
His resignation became प्रभावी on 28 फ़रवरी 2013.
He is the first पोप to resign चूंकि पोप ग्रेगरी XII in 1415, and the पहला to do so on उसके अपना initiative चूंकि पोप celestine v in 1294.
as पोप emeritus, Benedict retains the style of His पवित्रता, और the title of पोप, and होगा continue to पोशाक in the papal रंग of white.
he was succeeded by पोप फ्रांसिस on 13 कूच 2013, और he moved into the newly renovated Mater Ecclesiae monastery for his रिटायरमेंट on 2 May 2013..
जेब stereoscope साथ original परीक्षण image.
Used by सैन्य to examine stereoscopic pairs of aerial photographs.
दृश्य of Boston, c. 1860 ; an जल्दी stereoscopic कार्ड लिये viewing a झाँकी from प्रकृति
kaiser-panorama consisted of a multi-station viewing apparatus and सेट of स्टीरियो slides.
patented by A. fuhrmann around 1890.
कम्पनी of ladies watching stereoscopic छायाचित्र, painting by Jacob Spoel, पहले 1868.
A बहुत early चित्रण of लोगों using a stereoscope.
stereoscopy ( also पुकारा stereoscopics or 3D imaging ) is a technique लिये बनाना or बढ़ाना the illusion of गहराई in an image by means of stereopsis लिये binocular दृष्टि.
The शब्द stereoscopy derives इससे the यूनानी `` στερεός '' ( stereos ), `` कड़, ठोस '' + `` σκοπέω '' ( skopeō ), `` to look '', `` to देखिए ''.
सबसे stereoscopic विधि उपस्थित दो ऑफसेट images separately to the left और सही eye of the दर्शक.
ये two-dimensional बिंब हैं then combined in the दिमाग to दे the perception of 3D depth.
This technique is विशिष्ट from 3D displays that display an चित्र in तीन पूरा आयाम, allowing the observer to increase सूचना परिचय the 3-dimensional वस्तुएँ being प्रदर्शित by head and eye आंदोलनों.
जॉन Adams ( October 30, 1735 ( o.s. October 19, 1735 ) – जुलाई 4, 1826 ) was the second अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1797–1801 ), having पहले परोसा as the first vice अध्यक्ष of the United States.
an अमरीकी founding Father, he was a statesman, राजनयिक, और a leading एडवोकेट of अमरीकी independence from ग्रेट ब्रिटेन.
खूब educated, he was an Enlightenment political theorist जो promoted republicanism और wrote prolifically about his प्रायः seminal विचार, दोनो in प्रकाशित works और in letters to his बीवी और key adviser अबीगैल as खूब as to other Founding Fathers.
एडम्स आए to prominence in the जल्दी stages of the अमरीकी क्रान्ति.
a वकील और पब्लिक फिगर in Boston, as a प्रतिनिधि इससे Massachusetts to the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस, he played a अग्रणी role in persuading कॉंग्रेस to declare स्वतंत्रता.
He assisted थामस Jefferson in drafting the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता in 1776, और was its primary advocate in the Congress.
बाद, as a diplomat in Europe, he helped negotiate the eventual सलाम सन्धि with Great Britain, और थी responsible for obtaining vital सरकारी लोन इससे एम्सटर्डम bankers.
a राजनैतिक theorist और इतिहासकार, Adams largely wrote the मैसाचुसेट्स Constitution in 1780, which together साथ his पहले Thoughts on सरकारी, बहकावे American राजनैतिक विचार.
एक of his महानतम भूमिकाएँ was as a judge of अक्षर : in 1775, he मनोनीत George वॉशिंगटन to be commander-in-chief, और 25 years बाद मनोनीत जॉन मार्शल to be Chief Justice of the United राज्य.
Adams ' revolutionary श्रेय secured उसे दो terms as George Washington 's वाइस अध्यक्ष और उसके अपना election in 1796 as the second अध्यक्ष.
दौरान उसके one term, he encountered ferocious हमले by the jeffersonian republicans, as खूब as the प्रबल faction in उसके अपना Federalist Party led by his कड़वा दुश्मन सिकंदर हैमिल्टन.
एडम्स हस्ताक्षरित the विवादास्पद एलियन and राजद्रोह अधिनियमों, and निर्मित up the army and नेवी especially in the फेस of an undeclared नवल युद्ध ( पुकारा the `` quasi-war `` ) साथ France, 1798–1800.
The प्रमुख accomplishment of his प्रेसिडेंसी was उसके शांतिपूर्ण रेज़ोल्यूशन of the विरोध in the face of हैमिल्टन 's विपक्ष.
In 1800, एडम्स थी defeated लिये re-election by Thomas जेफरसन और रिटायर्ड to मैसाचुसेट्स.
he later resumed उसके दोस्ती साथ जेफरसन.
He and उसके बीवी, अबीगैल एडम्स, founded an संपन्नता family लकीर of politicians, राजनयिकों, और historians अभी referred to as the एडम्स political family.
एडम्स थी the father of John क्विंसी Adams, the छठे President of the United राज्य.
His achievements have received greater मान्यता in modern टाइम्स, हालांकि his contributions यहूद not initially as मनाये as those of other Founders.
एडम्स थी the पहला u.S. अध्यक्ष to reside in the building that आखिरकार became known as the श्वेत हाउस.
the संयुक्त राज्य ten-dollar विधेयक ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of United States currency.
the पहला u.S. सचिव of the राजकोष ( 1789–95 ), सिकंदर हैमिल्टन, is currently featured on the obverse of the bill, जबकि the u.S. राजकोष भवन is featured on the रिवर्स.
( हैमिल्टन is एक of दो non-presidents featured on फिलहाल issued u.S. बिल्स.
the other is बेंजामिन Franklin, on the $ 100 bill.
हैमिल्टन is एक of तभी four लोगों प्रदर्शित on u.S. paper करेंसी ( 1861 to the उपस्थित ) who थी not born in the महाद्वीपीय संयुक्त राज्य, as he थी इससे the वेस्ट Indies.
The others हैं : Albert gallatin, Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 विधिक Tender ) ; George Meade, Spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91 Treasury Note ) ; and Robert मॉरिस, इंग्लैण्ड ( $ 1,000 1862/63 विधिक टेंडर ; $ 10 1878/80 चांदी प्रमाणपत्र ).
In जोड, kamehameha I, appears on the 2008 Hawaii राज्य क्वार्टर. )
सब $ 10 बिल्स जारी आज are संघीय Reserve Notes.
the Bureau of Engraving और Printing says the औसत जीवन of a $ 10 विधेयक in परिसंचरण is 18 महीने before it is replaced due to पहनें.
लगभग 6 % of all us banknotes मुद्रित in 2009 were $ 10 बिल्स.
टेन डालर bills हैं delivered by Federal Reserve बैंको in पीला straps.
the source of the फेस on the $ 10 विधेयक is जॉन trumbull ’s 1805 portrait of Hamilton कि belongs to the पोर्ट्रेट संग्रहण of नई यॉर्क नगर Hall.
The $ 10 bill is the only U.S. paper currency in परिसंचरण in जिससे the पोर्ट्रेट चेहरों to the left ( the $ 100,000 विधेयक प्रदर्शित a पोर्ट्रेट of Woodrow Wilson facing to the left, लकिन was प्रयुक्त only for intra-government transactions ).
a सवार on a यामाहा Waverunner xl performing a high-speed फेरे.
A jetboat is a नाव propelled by a जेट of जल ejected इससे the वापस of the शिल्प.
नापसंद a powerboat or motorboat that उपयोग a propeller in the water below or पीछे the boat, a jetboat draws the water इससे under the boat into a pump inside the नाव, तब expels it through a nozzle at the stern.
jetboats यहूद originally designed by सर William Hamilton ( जो विकसित a waterjet in 1954 ) for आपरेशन in the fast-flowing और उथले rivers of New Zealand, specifically to overcome the प्रॉब्लम of propellers striking rocks in such waters.
पिछला attempts at waterjet propulsion था very छोटी lifetimes, generally due to the inefficient डिज़ाइन of the इकाई और the फैक्ट कि they offered few advantages over conventional propellers.
नापसंद these पिछला waterjet developments, ऐसे as campini 's and the hanley hydrojet, Hamilton था a specific need for a नोदन प्रणाली to operate in very-shallow जल, and the waterjet proved to be the ideal solution.
From इस, the popularity of the जेट ईकाई और jetboat increased rapidly.
Through further developments, it थी मिला the waterjet offered अनेक other लाभ over propellers लिये a wide range of पोत types, और as ऐसे, waterjets हैं used widely आज लिये अनेक high-speed बरतन, सहित यात्री ferries, बचाव craft, patrol नौकाएँ and offshore supply बरतन.
jetboats हैं अत्यधिक maneuverable, and अनेक can, from full गति, be reversed और brought to a stop भीतर little अधिक than उनके अपना लंबाई, in a maneuver ज्ञात as a `` crash रोकें ''.
The खूब ज्ञात हैमिल्टन turn or `` jet spin '' is a high-speed maneuvre where the boat 's इंजन throttle is cut, the परिचालन is turned sharply और the throttle खोली again, causing the boat to spin जल्दी around with a विशाल स्प्रे of जल.
वहीँ is no engineering limit to the आकार of jetboats, though the validity of their उपयोग depends a लॉट on the प्रकार of application.
क्लासिक prop-drives are generally अधिक efficient और economical at low speeds, up to परिचय, लकिन as नाव गति increases beyond this, the अतिरिक्त hull resistance उत्पन्न by struts, rudders, shafts ( इत्यादि. ) means waterjets हैं more कुशल in the 20-50 गांठ दायरा ( up to ).
भी, in परिस्थितियों साथ very विशाल propellers turning at slow speeds ( ऐसे as tug boats ), the equivalent आकार waterjet would be too बिग to be व्यावहारिक.
लिये ये reasons, the vast बहुमत of waterjet units are संस्थापित in high-speed vessels और in particular परिस्थितियों where उथले draught, maneuverability, और load flexibility हैं प्रमुख concerns.
The biggest jet-driven बरतन हैं मिला in military use or the high-speed passenger/car ferry उद्योग.
दक्षिण Africa 's s ( लगभग long ) हैं the biggest jet-propelled बरतन so दूर.
Even ये German-built बरतन are सक्षम of performing `` क्रैश stops ''.
Uveitis is broadly defined as inflammation of the uvea.
The uvea consists of the मध्य, pigmented, vascular structures of the eye और शामिल the आईरिस, ciliary देह, and choroid.
uveitis requires an तात्कालिक referral and thorough examination by an ophthalmologist or optometrist along साथ तात्कालिक उपचार to control the सूजन.
eric `` E. ''
Murphy is a fictional अक्षर on the comedy-drama television श्रेणी Entourage.
he is निभाई by केविन Connolly.
The जगमगाता is a 1980 psychological हॉरर फिल्मी produced और निर्देशित by Stanley kubrick, co-written with उपन्यासकार डायने Johnson, और अभिनीत Jack निकोल्सन, शेली duvall, Scatman crothers, और डैनी Lloyd.
the film is based on the स्टीफन किंग अनोखा The जगमगाता.
a लेखक, Jack Torrance, takes a job as an off-season caretaker at an isolated होटल.
उसके young बेटे possesses मानसिक abilities और is समर्थ to see बाते इससे the past and भविष्य, ऐसे as the भूत जो inhabit the hotel.
जल्द बाद settling in, the परिवार is trapped in the होटल by a snowstorm, और जोकर धीरे becomes influenced by a अलौकिक उपस्थिति ; he उतरता into दीवानगी and कोशिशें to murder उसके बीवी और बेटे.
Unlike previous Kubrick films, which developed an audience gradually by भवन on word-of-mouth, the जगमगाता थी released as a mass-market फिल्मी, खोलने at first in बस दो शहरों on मेमोरियल दिन, तब देशभर a month बाद.
Although आरंभिक response to the फिल्मी थी मिश्रित, बाद critical assessment थी अधिक favorable और it is अभी viewed as a क्लासिक of the हॉरर विधा.
Film director Martin स्कोर्सेसे, writing in The Daily जानवर, ranked it as एक of the 11 scariest horror movies of सब समय.
Film आलोचकों, फिल्मी विद्यार्थी, और kubrick 's producer, Jan harlan, have remarked on the enormous influence the फिल्मी has था on लोकप्रिय culture.
the initial यूरोपीय रिलीज of the जगमगाता was 25 मिनट्स shorter than the अमरीकी संस्करण, हासिल by removing सबसे of the scenes लेने प्लेस outside the environs of the hotel.
Patio कोला बोतल
आँगन आहार Cola थी a ब्रांड of diet सोडा introduced by पेप्सी in 1963.
It was निर्मित in जवाब to Diet Rite कोला, जिससे was the पहला आहार कोला on the मार्केट.
फ़िटनेस प्रवर्तक डिब्बी ड्रेक थी आँगन Diet कोला 's spokesperson.
in 1964, आँगन released नारंगी, अंगूर, और root बियर flavors.
This स्वाद लकीर was नहीं meant to compete with ब्रांड्स जैसे नारंगी crush, but बल्कि भरण आउट the line.
आँगन sodas यहूद उपलब्धियाँ in the cold-bottle मार्केट : किराना और mom-and-pop स्टोर्स.
Advertising लिये आँगन was comparatively scarce ; at the समय, bottlers were regionally franchised, और सम्बन्धित advertising was necessarily local.
in 1964, आँगन diet कोला became आहार पेप्सी.
the newly branded diet सोडा थी advertised alongside Pepsi साथ the tagline `` Pepsi either way '', जिससे replaced the slogan `` Dances with स्वाद ''.
The short जीवन स्पैन of Patio आहार कोला makes it a great addition लिये बोतल collectors.
सबसे of the बाकी आँगन लकीर of flavors यहूद phased out by the जल्दी 1970s, while a few बच जबतक the मिड 70s
अवसंरचना is basic physical और organizational structures needed लिये the आपरेशन of a society or enterprise, or the सेवाएं and सुविधाएं necessary लिये an economy to फलन.
it can be generally पारिभाषित as the नियत of interconnected संरचनात्मक तत्व कि provide फ्रेमवर्क supporting an entire structure of विकास.
It is an महत्वपूर्ण term लिये judging a country or region 's development.
The term typically refers to the technical structures कि support a समाज, ऐसे as सड़कें, bridges, जल सप्लाई, sewers, electrical ग्रिड, telecommunications, and so forth, और can be पारिभाषित as `` the physical components of interrelated systems providing commodities और सेवाएं essential to enable, sustain, or बढ़ाएँ societal living शर्तें. ''
viewed functionally, अवसंरचना facilitates the उत्पादन of goods और सेवाएं, and भी the वितरण of finished उत्पाद to बाज़ार, as खूब as मौलिक सोशल services such as schools and अस्पताल ; for उदाहरण, सड़कें enable the हस्तांतरण of कच्चा materials to a फैक्टरी.
in सैन्य parlance, the term refers to the इमारतें and स्थाई installations जरुरी for the support, redeployment, और operation of सैन्य forces.
to मेक it सरल, infrastructure is anything कि is needed everyday, an रोज मद.
A graphical representation of the ideal इंसान karyotype
mitochondrial डीएनए.
इंसान genetic variation is the जेनेटिक differences both भीतर और among populations.
वहीँ may be अनेक विसंगतियाँ of कोई given जीन in the human जनसांख्यिकी ( जीनों ), leading to polymorphism.
अनेक जीनों are नहीं बहुरूपी, meaning कि only a सिंगल allele is उपस्थित in the population : the जीन is then said to be fixed.
no दो इंसानो हैं genetically एकसमान.
Even monozygotic twins, who develop इससे एक zygote, have infrequent जेनेटिक differences due to mutations occurring during development और gene नक़ल क्रमांक variation.
Differences between individuals, भी closely related individuals, हैं the कुंजी to तकनीकों ऐसे as जेनेटिक fingerprinting.
Alleles occur at अलग frequencies in different इंसान populations, साथ populations that are more geographically and ancestrally रिमोट tending to differ अधिक.
कल्याणकारी of मतभेद between individuals शामिल the एक्सचेंज of genes दौरान meiosis और विभिन्न mutational events.
वहीँ are at तनिक two reasons why genetic variation exists between populations.
प्राकृतिक चयन may confer an adaptive लाभ to individuals in a विशिष्ट पर्यावरण if an allele provides a प्रतिस्पर्धी लाभ.
alleles under चयन are संभावित to occur only in those भौगोलिक regions जहाँ they confer an लाभ.
the दूसरी main कारण of genetic variation is due to the ऊँची degree of neutrality of सबसे mutations.
सबसे mutations do नहीं appear to have कोई selective प्रभाव एक way or the other on the organism.
The main cause is जेनेटिक drift, this is the effect of random परिवर्तन in the जीन pool.
In humans, संस्थापक प्रभाव और पास्ट small जनसांख्यिकी size ( increasing the likelihood of जेनेटिक बहाव ) may have had an महत्वपूर्ण influence in neutral मतभेद between populations.
the theory कि इंसानो recently migrated आउट of Africa supports this.
the पढ़ाई of human जेनेटिक variation has दोनो विकासवादी significance और चिकित्सा applications.
It can सहायता वैज्ञानिकों समझे ancient इंसान जनसांख्यिकी migrations as खूब as कैसा अलग इंसान समूह are biologically सम्बन्धित to एक another.
लिये medicine, study of human genetic विभिन्नता may be महत्वपूर्ण because कुछ disease-causing alleles occur अधिक often in लोगों इससे विशिष्ट भौगोलिक regions.
नई findings दिखाएँ कि each इंसान रै on औसत 60 new mutations compared to उनके अभिभावक.
Apart इससे mutations, many genes कि may have aided इंसानो in प्राचीन टाइम्स plague humans आज.
लिये उदाहरण, it is suspected that जीनों कि allow humans to अधिक efficiently प्रक्रम खाना हैं those that मेक लोगों susceptible to मोटापा and diabetes आज.
Tea Party प्रदर्शनकारियों on the West Lawn of the u.S. Capitol और the नेशनल Mall at the Taxpayer March on Washington on सितंबर 12, 2009.
the Tea पार्टी गति is an अमरीकी राजनैतिक movement कि अधिवक्ताओं strict adherence to the संयुक्त States Constitution, reducing u.S. सरकारी spending and taxes, and reduction of the u.S. नेशनल कर्ज़ और संघीय बजट deficit.
the गति रै been called partly रूढ़िवादी, partly libertarian, और partly populist.
the movement has प्रायोजित protests and समर्थित राजनैतिक उम्मीदवार चूंकि 2009.
The नाम of the गति is derived इससे the Boston चाय पार्टी of 1773, an iconic इवेंट in American इतिहास.
anti-tax protesters in the United राज्य have प्रायः referred to the original Boston चाय पार्टी for प्रेरणा.
सन्दर्भ to the बोस्टन चाय Party यहूद part of कर दिन विरोध आयोजित throughout the 1990s और earlier.
by 2001, a कस्टम था विकसित among some conservative activists of mailing चाय bags to विधायक और अन्य officials as a symbolic act.
The मुद्राएँ of प्यूर्टो Rico closely follow the ऐतिहासिक development of प्यूर्टो Rico.
As a colony of Spain और the संयुक्त राज्य, Puerto Rico थी granted the use of both विदेशी और provincial currencies.
Following the स्पेनी colonization in 1502, Puerto Rico became an महत्वपूर्ण बंदरगाहों, with इसके अपना सप्लाई of gold.
however, as the खनिज reserves भागा empty within the सदी, the द्वीपसमूह 's अर्थव्यवस्था suffered.
the Spanish क्राउन जारी the situado mexicano, जिससे meant that a semi-regular शिपमेंट of सुनहरा इससे the viceroyalty of नई स्पेन होता be भेजा to the island, as a way to provide आर्थिक support.
Between 1636 and 1637, Philip iv of Spain imposed a tax which था to be सशुल्क using a आय stamp.
प्रेरित by इस, प्यूर्टो रीको began producing banknotes in 1766, बनने the पहला उपनिवेश to छपाई 8- real banknotes in the स्पेनी Empire और which in the Spanish सरकारी 's स्वीकृति of subsequent मुद्दे.
the situado थी discontinued दौरान the 19th सदी, creating an economic crisis, as a result of मैक्सिको gaining इसके स्वतंत्रता इससे स्पेन.
साल्वाडोर meléndez bruna, the colonial राज्यपाल in दफ्तर, ordered the समस्या of प्रांतीय banknotes, बनाना the Puerto rican peso.
however, printing of ये banknotes ceased बाद 1815.
During the following दशकों, विदेशी coins became the फैली करेंसी.
in the 1860s and 1870s, banknotes reemerged.
on फ़रवरी 1, 1890, the banco español de Puerto रीको थी inaugurated और began issuing banknotes.
the बैंको designed चार श्रेणी और लगाई three in circulation under स्पेनी नियम.
In 1895, a royal डिक्री ordered the उत्पादन of प्रांतीय पेसो सिक्के.
on अगस्त 13, 1898, the spanish-american युद्ध ended साथ स्पेन ceding Puerto Rico to the United राज्य.
The Banco español de प्यूर्टो रीको was renamed बैंको of पोर्टो रीको and जारी बिल्स समतुल्य to the संयुक्त राज्य डालर, बनाना the Puerto rican dollar.
in 1902, the पहला National बैंको of Porto Rico जारी banknotes in a समानांतर manner.
दो more श्रेणी यहूद जारी until 1913.
After प्यूर्टो Rico 's economy and मौद्रिक प्रणाली थी fully एकीकृत into the संयुक्त States ' आर्थिक and मौद्रिक प्रणाली, the प्यूर्टो Rican dollars यहूद redeemed लिये those जारी by the United States राजकोष.
The peso and dollar have महरूम followed by other समकालीन issues, सहित commemorative banknotes, private currency, and a क्वार्टर सिक्का designed साथ फोर्ट सैन Felipe डेल Morro in the face.
पेप्सी ( stylized in लोअरकेस as पेप्सी, formerly stylized in अपरकेस as पेप्सी ) is a कार्बोनेटेड soft पेय कि is उत्पादित और manufactured by पेप्सिको.
निर्मित और विकसित in 1893 और introduced as Brad 's Drink, it was renamed as pepsi-cola on अगस्त 28, 1898, then to पेप्सी in 1961.
the किताब of ezekiel is the तीसरा of the Latter नबियों in the Hebrew बाइबल, following the books of यशायाह and यिर्मयाह और preceding the Book of the Twelve.
( the अनुक्रम is somewhat अलग in the ईसाई बूढ़ा Testament ).
it derives इसके name इससे, and records the visions of, the 6th सदी bc priest और नबी Ezekiel.
According to the book, the नबी, exiled in Babylon, अनुभवी a श्रेणी of seven visions during the 22 सालो from 593 to 571 bc, a period जिससे spans the final destruction of जेरूसलम in 586.
the visions, and the किताब, हैं संरचित around three विषयवस्तु : ( 1 ) निर्णय on इसराईल ( chapters 1-24 ) ; ( 2 ) निर्णय on the राष्ट्र ( chapters 25-32 ) ; और भविष्य आशीर्वाद for Israel ( chapters 33-48 ).
नई Orleans ( or, locally or ; ) is a major संयुक्त राज्य port और the largest नगर and महानगर area in the state of louisiana.
the population of the नगर was 343,829 as of the 2010 u.S. जनसांख्यिकी.
The New Orleans metropolitan क्षेत्रफल ( New orleans–metairie–kenner महानगर Statistical Area ) था a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,167,764 in 2010 and थी the 46th largest in the संयुक्त राज्य.
the नई orleans–metairie–bogalusa संयुक्त सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल, a larger trading क्षेत्रफल, था a 2010 population of 1,214,932.
The नगर is named बाद orléans, a नगर located on the loire River in केन्द्र, फ़्रांस, और is खूब ज्ञात for its distinct फ्रेंच Creole वास्तुकला, as well as इसके cross-cultural and multilingual विरासत.
नई ऑरलियन्स is भी प्रसिद्ध लिये its cuisine, म्यूज़िक ( विशेषकर as the जन्मस्थान of jazz ), and इसके सालाना celebrations और festivals, सबसे notably Mardi ग्रा.
the नगर is प्रायः referred to as the `` सबसे अद्वितीय '' in अमेरिका.
नई ऑरलियन्स is स्तिथ in southeastern louisiana, straddling the मिसिसिपी River.
the city and ऑरलियन्स मोहल्ला ( ) हैं.
the नगर and मोहल्ला हैं bounded by the parishes of St. tammany to the north, St. बर्नार्ड to the ईस्ट, plaquemines to the दक्षिण और जेफरसन to the south और west.
Lake pontchartrain, भाग of जिससे is शामिल in the city हद, झूठ to the north और Lake borgne lies to the ईस्ट.
The नेशनल Birth Control लीग was a जनम control organization in the संयुक्त राज्य.
it was founded in March 1915 by Mary Dennett, क्लारा Gruening stillman और जेसी एशले.
इसके main purpose थी to overturn the कानून which बैन contraceptives from the U.S. mails.
अभियान were आरोहित in New यॉर्क, but in 1919 the लीग was disbanded और reformed into the voluntary parenthood लीग.
Cancer, known medically as a malignant फुलाव, is a व्यापक group of विभिन्न diseases, सब involving unregulated कोशिका विकास.
In कर्कट, cells divide और grow uncontrollably, forming malignant tumors, and invade आसपास भाग of the देह.
the cancer may भी स्प्रेड to more दूर भाग of the body through the lymphatic प्रणाली or bloodstream.
नहीं सब tumors are cancerous.
benign tumors do नहीं grow uncontrollably, do नहीं invade neighboring ऊतकों, और do नहीं spread throughout the देह.
वहीँ are over 200 अलग ज्ञात cancers कि afflict humans.
Determining कया causes cancer is complex.
अनेक बाते हैं ज्ञात to बढ़ाएँ the risk of cancer, सहित tobacco उपयोग, निश्चित infections, विकिरण, कमी of शारीरिक कार्यकलाप, obesity, और पर्यावरणीय प्रदूषक.
These can directly damage genes or combine साथ मौजूदा genetic faults भीतर कोशिकाएं to कारण the disease.
Approximately five to टेन प्रतिशत of cancers are entirely hereditary.
कर्कट can be detected in a number of तरीके, सहित the presence of निश्चित signs और symptoms, स्क्रीनिंग tests, or चिकित्सा imaging.
Once a possible कर्कट is detected it is diagnosed by microscopic परिक्षा of a tissue नमूना.
Cancer is usually treated with chemotherapy, radiation therapy और सर्जरी.
the chances of surviving the बीमारी vary greatly by the प्रकार और location of the cancer and the extent of disease at the start of treatment.
जबकि कर्कट can affect people of all आयु, and a few प्रकार of कर्कट are more आम in children, the रिस्क of विकासशील cancer generally increases साथ age.
in 2007, कर्कट caused परिचय 13 % of all इंसान मौतों विश्वव्यापी ( 7.9 million ).
Rates are rising as अधिक लोगों live to an old आयु और as द्रव्यमान lifestyle परिवर्तन occur in the विकासशील संसार.
वसन्त स्की touring on hardangervidda, नार्वे
Skiing is a recreational कार्यकलाप and प्रतिस्पर्धी खेल in जिससे the भागीदार attaches long धावक or skis to बूट or shoes on the फीट और उपयोग them to travel on top of हिम.
Aside from मनोरंजन और competition, स्कीइंग रै महरूम प्रयुक्त for सैन्य purposes और भी यात्राएं in areas कि experience भारी हिमपात.
अनेक प्रकार of प्रतिस्पर्धी skiing कार्यक्रम are पहचाना by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Olympic कमेटी, और the International Ski संघ.
जॉन मेनार्ड keynes, 1st Baron keynes, cb, FBA ( ; 5 जून 1883 – 21 April 1946 ) was a अंग्रेजों economist जिनकी ideas have fundamentally प्रभावित the सिद्धान्त और practice of आधुनिक macroeconomics, और सूचित the आर्थिक policies of सरकारें.
he निर्मित on और greatly परिष्कृत पहले कार्य on the कल्याणकारी of कारोबार cycles, और is widely considered to be एक of the संस्थापकों of modern macroeconomics और the most influential अर्थशास्त्री of the 20th सदी.
His विचार हैं the आधार for the स्कूल of विचार ज्ञात as keynesian अर्थशास्त्र, as well as its विभिन्न offshoots.
In अनेक तरीके, subsequent developments in 20th century अर्थशास्त्र can be viewed as either building on Keynes ' विचार or reacting विरूद्ध उन्हें.
in the 1930s, keynes पथप्रदर्शन a revolution in आर्थिक सोच, overturning the older विचार of neoclassical अर्थशास्त्र कि held कि free बाज़ार would, in the छोटी to medium term, automatically provide full employment, as long as workers यहूद flexible in their मजदूरी demands.
Keynes बजाय argued कि aggregate माँग संकल्पित the overall level of economic कार्यकलाप, and कि inadequate कुल demand could lead to prolonged periods of high unemployment.
He advocated the उपयोग of fiscal and मौद्रिक उपायों to mitigate the adverse प्रभाव of आर्थिक recessions और depressions.
Following the outbreak of the Second संसार War, keynes 's ideas concerning आर्थिक नीति यहूद adopted by leading पश्चिमी economies.
in 1942, Keynes थी awarded a खानदानी peerage as सामन्त Keynes of Tilton in the County of ससेक्स.
Keynes died in 1946, लकिन दौरान the 1950s और 1960s the success of keynesian अर्थशास्त्र resulted in लगभग सब capitalist सरकारें adopting इसके नीति recommendations.
Keynes 's influence waned in the 1970s, partly as a परिणाम of problems कि began to afflict the anglo-american economies from the प्रारंभ of the दशक, and partly क्युकी of critiques from मिल्टन फ्राइडमैन and other economists who were pessimistic परिचय the क्षमता of governments to विनियमित the business साईकिल with फिस्कल नीति.
however, the advent of the वैश्विक वित्तीय crisis in 2007 caused a पुनरुत्थान in keynesian thought.
Keynesian economics provided the सैद्धांतिक underpinning लिये आर्थिक policies undertaken in जवाब to the संकट by राष्ट्रपतियों George W. Bush और Barack ओबामा of the संयुक्त राज्य, Prime Minister गॉर्डन भूरा of the संयुक्त किंगडम, and अन्य heads of governments.
In 1999, Time magazine included keynes in उनके सूची of the 100 सबसे महत्वपूर्ण और influential लोगों of the 20th सदी, commenting that : `` उसके radical विचार कि सरकारें चाहिए खर्च धन they do n't have may have saved पूंजीवाद. ''
in addition to होने an economist, keynes थी also a civil नौकर, a निदेशक of the अंग्रेजों Eugenics समाज, a निदेशक of the बैंको of England, a संरक्षक of the arts and an art collector, a भाग of the Bloomsbury समूह of intellectuals, an advisor to several charitable trusts, a writer, a पारस, a private निवेशकों, और a किसान.
इस 1768 parchment ( 612×502 mm ) by Jekuthiel sofer emulated the 1675 टेन आयतें at the एम्सटर्डम Esnoga synagogue.
The टेन Commandments, भी ज्ञात as the decalogue, हैं a नियत of biblical कानून relating to ethics और इबादत, जिससे खेल a fundamental भूमिका in judaism, Islam and christianity.
वे शामिल instructions to worship तभी परमेश्वर, to keep the sabbath पावन और prohibitions against idolatry, blasphemy, murder, theft, deception और व्यभिचार.
अलग समूह follow थोड़ा अलग परंपराओं लिये interpreting और क्रमांकन उन्हें.
The टेन Commandments appear twice in the Hebrew बाइबल, in the किताबे of Exodus और Deuteronomy.
according to the स्टोरी in exodus, परमेश्वर inscribed them on two stone टैबलेट, which he gave to मूसा on Mount sinai.
आधुनिक स्कॉलरशिप has मिला संभावित प्रभाव in Hittite और mesopotamian कानून and treaties, लकिन is विभाजित over exactly जब the टेन आयतें यहूद लिखा और जो wrote उन्हें.
the डिस्कोग्राफ़ी of the अंग्रेज़ी वैकल्पिक चट्टान बैंड the smiths consists of four studio एल्बम, एक विस्तारित खेल ( EP ), एक live एल्बम, टेन compilation albums, twenty singles, one video एल्बम और चौदह music videos on the अशिष्ट Trade, sire and WEA रिकार्ड लेबल्स.
the band थी formed in 1982 in Manchester by vocalist Morrissey, guitarist Johnny Marr, bass खिलाड़ी एंडी Rourke and वादक माइक joyce.
despite being championed by बीबीसी रेडियो 1 डिस्क jockey John छिलके, the band 's debut single, `` Hand in Glove `` ( May 1983 ), विफल to चार्ट.
इसके follow-up, `` This Charming man `` ( October 1983 ), मिले with नाजुक acclaim and पहुँचे क्रमांक twenty-five on the UK singles चार्ट.
the smiths ' cult status थी followed by मुख्यधारा कामयाबी in 1984, as they पहुँचे क्रमांक बारह in the uk साथ the `` What अंतर करता it मेक ? `` सिंगल और reached number two on the uk एल्बम Chart with उनके डेब्यू album, the smiths ( 1984 ).
उनके next three singles सब पहुँचे the top बीस of the charts in the uk, helping to consolidate उनके पिछला चार्ट कामयाबी.
the अगला studio एल्बम, मांस Is Murder ( 1985 ), पहुँचे the top of the अंग्रेजों चार्ट ; however, the only सिंगल to be released इससे the एल्बम, `` कि Joke is n't मजेदार anymore `` ( 1985 ), विफल to break the UK शीर्ष 40.
returning to रूप, The Smiths ' अगला छह singles all पहुँचे the higher than क्रमांक तीस in the uk और their तीसरा album, the महारानी Is मुर्दे ( 1986 ), reached क्रमांक दो in the uk.
despite the band 's चार्ट success, marr बाएँ the समूह in अगस्त 1987 due to a strained संबंध साथ Morrissey.
failing to ढूँढें a बदलना, the smiths disbanded by the समय their फाइनल studio एल्बम, strangeways, Here we आइये, थी released in September कि year.
strangeways, Here we आइये reached क्रमांक two in the uk and became the बैंड 's highest-charting रिलीज in the संयुक्त राज्य when it पहुँचे क्रमांक fifty-five on the Billboard 200.
In जल्दी 1992, wea acquired the entire वापस कैटलॉग of The smiths and उत्पादित two compilations – बेहतरीन... i और... Best II – the पहला of जिससे reached the शीर्ष of the uk एल्बम चार्ट.
WEA released two further singles compilations in 1995 और 2001, with a further संकलन, The ध्वनि of the smiths, released in November 2008.
Gone with the हवा is a अनोखा लिखा by मार्गरेट Mitchell, first प्रकाशित in 1936.
It is प्रायः लगाई in the literary sub-genre of the historical रोमांस novel.
However, it रै महरूम argued the novel is a `` near मिस '' और करता नहीं contain all of the elements of the romance विधा, बनाना it simply a ऐतिहासिक अनोखा.
the story is set in Clayton County, जॉर्जिया, और Atlanta दौरान the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध and Reconstruction.
It depicts the अनुभवों of Scarlett O'Hara, the बिगड़े बेटी of a well-to-do plantation owner, who जरूर use प्रत्येक means at उसके disposal to come आउट of the गरीबी वो पाता herself in after Sherman 's `` कूच to the Sea ''.
Margaret Mitchell began लिखने गए with the Wind in 1926 to pass the समय while recovering इससे an auto-crash चोट that refused to चंगा.
in April 1935, Harold लैथम of Macmillan, an एडिटर who थी looking for नई fiction, पढ़ा कया she had लिखा और saw कि it could be a best-seller.
बाद लैथम सहमत to publish the book, Mitchell worked लिये another six months checking the ऐतिहासिक references, और rewrote the खोलने chapter अनेक टाइम्स.
Mitchell and her husband John दलदल, a नक़ल editor by व्यापार, संपादित the फाइनल संस्करण of the अनोखा.
मिशेल wrote the किताब 's फाइनल moments पहला, और तब लिखा the कार्यक्रम that led up to it.
As to कया became of her lovers, रहेट और स्कारलेट, बाद the अनोखा ended, Mitchell किया not जान, और said, `` For सब i know, Rhett may have found किसी else जो थी less मुश्किल. ''
मिशेल received the पुलित्जर पुरस्कार लिये fiction लिये the book in 1937.
the किताब थी adapted into a 1939 अमरीकी film.
गए with the हवा is the only novel by Mitchell published दौरान उसके lifetime.
Endodontics ( from the Greek endo `` अंदर '' ; and odons `` tooth '' ) is एक of the दंत specialties पहचाना by the American दंत संघ, royal College of dentists of कनाडा, और royal australasian College of दंत Surgeons, और सौदे with the दाँत pulp and the tissues surrounding the रूट of a दाँत.
Endodontists perform a किस्में of प्रक्रियाओं सहित endodontic चिकित्सा ( commonly ज्ञात as `` रूट canal therapy '' ), endodontic retreatment, सर्जरी, treating cracked teeth, और treating दंत आघात.
Root कनाल therapy is एक of the most आम प्रक्रियाओं.
If the गूदा ( containing nerves, arterioles, venules, lymphatic ऊतक, and fibrous ऊतक ) becomes diseased or घायल, endodontic treatment is required to सहेजें the दाँत.
सीरियल Attached scsi ( SAS ) is a point-to-point serial protocol कि चालें आंकड़ा to और इससे computer भंडार devices such as hard ड्राइव and tape ड्राइव.
SAS replaces the पुरानी समानांतर SCSI ( pronounced `` scuzzy '' ) बस प्रौद्योगिकी कि first appeared in the mid-1980s.
SAS, like इसके पूर्ववर्ती, uses the standard scsi कमांड set.
SAS offers backward संगतता साथ second-generation SATA ड्राइव.
SATA 3 gbit/s ड्राइव may be connected to SAS backplanes, लकिन SAS ड्राइव can नहीं connect to sata backplanes.
the T10 technical कमेटी of the International कमेटी लिये सूचना प्रौद्योगिकी मानकों ( incits ) develops and maintains the sas protocol ; the SCSI व्यापार संघ ( SCSITA ) promotes the प्रौद्योगिकी.
भाग of the संवैधानिक प्रावधान as it appeared in 1787
Status as a natural-born नागरिक of the United States is one of the eligibility आवश्यकताएँ स्थापित in the United States संविधान for चुनाव to the दफ्तर of President or Vice अध्यक्ष.
This आवश्यकता थी intended to protect the nation from foreign influence.
the Constitution does not define the phrase natural-born नागरिक, and various राय have been offered over समय regarding its precise meaning.
a 2011 Congressional शोध Service रपट stated
The natural-born-citizen clause रै महरूम उल्लेखित in गुजर in अनेक निर्णय of the संयुक्त राज्य Supreme अदालत और निम्नतर courts dealing साथ the question of पात्रता लिये नागरिकता by birth, but the परम् Court has never सीधे addressed the सवाल of a विशिष्ट अध्यक्षीय or vice-presidential प्रत्याशी 's पात्रता as a natural-born नागरिक.
kurtis Eugene `` Kurt '' warner ( born जून 22, 1971 ) is a former American football खिलाड़ी.
He निभाई quarterback for three National फ़ुटबॉल League ( एनएफएल ) टीमों : the st. Louis Rams, the New यॉर्क दिग्गज, and the एरिज़ोना कार्डिनल्स.
he थी originally हस्ताक्षरित by the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स as an undrafted फ़्री एजेंट in 1994 बाद playing college फ़ुटबॉल at Northern आयोवा.
warner would go on to be माना the best undrafted खिलाड़ी of all समय, following a 12-year करियर regarded as एक of the महानतम कहानियां in एनएफएल इतिहास.
Warner first attained स्टारडम जबकि playing for the st. लुई Rams इससे 1998 to 2003, where he जीती दो एनएफएल MVP पुरस्कार in 1999 and 2001 as खूब as the सुपर Bowl mvp पुरस्कार in सुपर कटोरी XXXIV.
he led the 2008 एरिज़ोना कार्डिनल्स to सुपर कटोरी XLIII ( the मताधिकार 's पहला Super Bowl berth ), और owns the तीन highest single-game passing yardage totals in सुपर Bowl history.
warner फिलहाल holds the seventh-highest career passer rating of all-time ( 93.7 ), और the third-highest career completion percentage in एनएफएल history with 65.5 %.
in 13 career playoff खेल, warner बाँधने पहला all-time in पूर्णता प्रतिशत ( 66.5 % ), गज per attempt ( 8.55 ), और दूसरी in passer दरजा ( 102.8 ).
He भी holds the highest completion प्रतिशत लिये a सिंगल खेल दौरान the नियमित season, at 92.3 प्रतिशत ( 24/26 ), on सितंबर 20, 2009, विरूद्ध the Jacksonville Jaguars.
He घोषित उसके retirement on January 29, 2010. < संदर्भ name='cnn 2010-01-29 ' >
जेनेट Kay ruthven hagan ( ; born May 26, 1953 ) is the जूनियर United राज्य Senator इससे North कैरोलिना, in office चूंकि जनवरी 2009.
previously she परोसा in the North कैरोलिना Senate इससे 1999 to 2009.
वो is a सदस्य of the Democratic Party and is viewed as a मॉडरेट सदस्य of her party.
जब hagan पराजित रिपब्लिकन incumbent एलिज़ाबेथ Dole in the 2008 संयुक्त राज्य Senate election, वो became the पहला woman to शिकस्त an लाज़िम स्त्री in a सीनेट चुनाव.
the heisman मेमोरियल Trophy पुरस्कार ( प्रायः known colloquially as the heisman ट्रॉफी or the Heisman ), is awarded annually to the खिलाड़ी deemed the सबसे बकाया खिलाड़ी in कॉलेजिएट फ़ुटबॉल.
it थी निर्मित in 1935 as the Downtown एथलेटिक Club ट्रॉफी and renamed in 1936 following the मौत of the Club 's athletic director, John heisman ( former भूरा विश्वविद्यालयों और विश्वविद्यालयों of Pennsylvania player ; सिर फ़ुटबॉल कोच at oberlin कॉलेज, auburn विश्वविद्यालयों, clemson University, Rice विश्वविद्यालयों, और the विश्वविद्यालयों of Pennsylvania ; और फ़ुटबॉल, बास्केट, and बेसबॉल head coach और athletic निदेशक at Georgia तकनीक ).
the पुरस्कार is प्रस्तुत by the heisman Trophy विश्वास in early December before the postseason bowl खेल.
it is the oldest of अनेक overall awards in college फ़ुटबॉल, सहित the मैक्सवेल पुरस्कार, वाल्टर Camp पुरस्कार, और the ap Player of the Year.
the heisman and the ap खिलाड़ी of the साल are the तभी पुरस्कार to honor the most बकाया खिलाड़ी, while the Maxwell पुरस्कार और वाल्टर शिविर Award recognize the बेहतरीन खिलाड़ी, और the आर्ची griffin पुरस्कार recognizes the सबसे मूल्यवान player.
The United राष्ट्र कमांड ( unc ) is the एकीकृत कमांड ढांचा लिये the multinational सैन्य शक्तियां supporting the गणतंत्र of कोरियाई ( दक्षिण कोरियाई or ROK ) during and बाद the कोरियाई युद्ध.
बाद troops of the लोकतांत्रिक लोगों 's Republic of कोरियाई ( North कोरियाई or dprk ) invaded दक्षिण कोरियाई on June 25, 1950, the संयुक्त राष्ट्र Security परिषद adopted Resolution 82 calling on उत्तर कोरियाई to cease hostilities and withdraw to the 38th parallel.
on जून 27, 1950, it अपनाया Resolution 83, recommending कि members of the United राष्ट्र provide सहायता to the गणतंत्र of Korea `` to repel the हथियारबंद attack और to restore अंतरराष्ट्रीय सलाम और security to the area ''.
सुरक्षा Council रेज़ोल्यूशन 84, अपनाया on जुलाई 7, 1950, recommended कि members providing military forces and other सहायता to दक्षिण Korea `` make ऐसे forces and other assistance उपलब्धियाँ to a एकीकृत कमांड अंतर्गत the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका ''.
Although the resolutions सुझाया the forces under the unc were `` संयुक्त राष्ट्र शक्तियां '', और संयुक्त Nations itself could be माना a belligerent, in practice the संयुक्त राष्ट्र exercised no कंट्रोल over the कॉम्बैट शक्तियां, जिससे यहूद controlled by the संयुक्त राज्य.
Most observers concluded कि the शक्तियां अंतर्गत the unc यहूद नहीं in विधि संयुक्त राष्ट्र सैनिकों, and the acts of the UNC were not the अधिनियमों of the संयुक्त Nations.
the UNC can be regarded as an गठबंधन of नेशनल सेना, operating under the सामूहिक सही of self-defense.
On अगस्त 29, 1950, the अंग्रेजों Commonwealth 's 27th infantry Brigade arrived at Busan to जुड़ें the UNC, which जबतक तब शामिल तभी ROK और u.S. शक्तियां.
The 27th ब्रिगेड moved into the naktong नदी line वेस्ट of daegu.
troop इकाई from अन्य countries of the un followed in rapid succession ; Australia, belgian United राष्ट्र कमांड, Canada, कोलंबिया, इथियोपिया, France, Greece, Luxembourg, the नीदरलैंड्स, नई जीलैंड, the फिलीपीन, थाईलैंड और Turkey.
the Union of दक्षिण Africa provided एयर इकाई जिससे लड़ा alongside the एयर शक्तियां of other member राष्ट्र.
Denmark, इण्डिया, नार्वे, and स्वीडन provided चिकित्सा इकाई.
Italy provided a हॉस्पिटल, भी हालांकि it थी not a un सदस्य.
the संयुक्त Nations कमांड और the chinese-north Korean Command हस्ताक्षरित the Korean armistice अनुबंध on 27 जुलाई 1953, ending the भारी लड़.
The armistice अनुबंध established the Military armistice Commission ( मैक ), consisting of representatives of the two signatories, to supervise the क्रियान्वयन of the armistice शर्तें.
The North Korean-Chinese मैक रै महरूम replaced by panmumjon प्रतिनिधि under exclusive उत्तर कोरियाई प्रबन्धन.
नियमित meetings have महरूम रोका, हालांकि ड्यूटी अधिकारियों of संयुक्त Security क्षेत्रफल, commonly ज्ञात as the युद्धविराम गाँव of Panmunjom, from प्रत्येक side मिलें regularly.
lincoln हाइट्स is an American परिवार drama television series परिचय एडी Sutton, a मिशन विस्टा पुलिस अधिकारी who चालें उसके family back to his बूढ़ा पड़ोस, lincoln हाइट्स, to start a नई life and to help आउट उसके old पड़ोस.
it is a खतरनाक place to raise a family, और through the many trials the परिवार goes through, they soon सीख that settling in is नहीं as आसान as it seems.
While अधिकारी Sutton struggles to cope साथ प्रत्येक day life as a गली cop in लॉस Angeles, उसके kids कोशिश to अनुरूप in at their नई schools और साथ उनके new पड़ोसी.
the दिखाएँ premiered जनवरी 8, 2007 on the ABC Family संजाल साथ 13 एपीसोड ordered for the पहला season.
It थी स्वीकृत for a second season, जिससे premiered सितंबर 4, 2007.
Vanessa Hudgens ' song, कह ok था been प्रयुक्त in a commercial to promote the दूसरी season.
To promote the third ऋतु, वे दिखाया क्लिप्स of cassie and Charles 's relationship to the song, crush by the अमरीकी Idol 's seventh ऋतु runner-up, David archuleta.
to promote ऋतु 4, they 're using the song, Avalanche by Marie Digby.
the दिखाएँ 's थीम song थी लिखा and performed by bassist स्टेनली क्लार्क और singer-songwriter blaire Reinhard.
on January 29, 2010, एबीसी Family announced the cancellation of the श्रेणी after चार सीज़न.
A ईसाई denomination is an identifiable धार्मिक देह under a common नाम, ढांचा, और doctrine भीतर Christianity.
in the Orthodox परंपरा, churches हैं विभाजित प्रायः along जातीय and भाषाई lines, into separate चर्च और traditions.
Technically, विभाजन between एक group और another हैं defined by doctrine and church authority.
मुद्दे ऐसे as the प्रकृति of Jesus, the प्राधिकार of अपोस्टोलिक succession, eschatology, and papal primacy पृथक एक denomination from another.
the रोमन Catholic Church is the largest denomination साथ over 1.1 अरब members, over हाफ of all ईसाइयों worldwide, making it the largest denomination for कोई धर्म विश्वव्यापी ( हालांकि the गिरिजाघर does not दृश्य itself as a denomination, लकिन as the original pre-denominational church ).
प्रोटोस्टेंट denominations comprise roughly 38–39 % of ईसाइयों विश्वव्यापी, और साथ the catholics, Protestants, anglicans, और अन्य closely related denominations comprise Western christianity.
The Eastern Orthodox गिरिजाघर, Oriental Orthodox Churches और the assyrian गिरिजाघर of the East हैं माना Eastern Christian denominations.
Western Christian denominations prevail in पश्चिमी यूरोपीय and इसके पूर्व colonies.
पूर्वी ईसाई denominations are represented mostly in पूर्वी Europe, the मध्य East and North Africa.
ईसाइयों have विभिन्न doctrines परिचय the गिरिजाघर, the body of faithful कि वे मानना थी स्थापित by यीशु Christ, और कैसा the दैवी church corresponds to ईसाई denominations.
दोनो the Catholics और the पूर्वी परंपरागत consider प्रत्येक of themselves solely to faithfully represent the एक पावन कैथोलिक और अपोस्टोलिक Church to the exclusion of the अन्य.
Protestants separated इससे the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर क्युकी of theologies और practices कि they considered to be in उल्लंघन of उनके interpretation.
generally, members of the various denominations acknowledge प्रत्येक अन्य as Christians, at least to the extent that they have mutually पहचाना baptisms और acknowledge historically परंपरागत views सहित the देवत्व of यीशु और doctrines of सिन and मोक्ष, भी हालांकि doctrinal and ecclesiological obstacles hinder full नियाज़ between चर्च.
चूंकि the reforms surrounding वेटिकन ii, the Catholic गिरिजाघर has referred to Protestant समुदायों as `` denominations '', जबकि reserving the पद `` गिरिजाघर '' for अपोस्टोलिक churches, सहित the Eastern परंपरागत ( देखिए subsistit in और branch theory ).
There हैं however some non-denominational Christians जो do नहीं follow कोई particular शाखा.
the पांडा ( ailuropoda melanoleuca, lit.
`` black और श्वेत cat-foot '' ), also ज्ञात as the दानव panda to फर्क it from the unrelated red पांडा, is a भालू native to central-western और दक्षिण western चीन.
it is easily पहचाना by the विशाल, distinctive ब्लैक धब्बे around इसके eyes, over the कानों, और across its गोलाकार body.
Though it belongs to the अनुक्रम carnivora, the panda 's आहार is 99 % बाँसुरी.
Pandas in the wild will occasionally eat अन्य grasses, जंगली tubers, or भी मांस in the रूप of पक्षियों, rodents or carrion.
in captivity, वे may प्राप्त मधु, अंडे, मछली, yams, shrub पत्ते, संतरे, or bananas along साथ विशेषकर prepared food.
the दानव panda जीवनदान in a few mountain सीमाएँ in central China, mainly in Sichuan province, but भी in the shaanxi and गांसू provinces.
as a परिणाम of farming, deforestation और other development, the panda has been चलित आउट of the lowland क्षेत्रों जहाँ it एकबार lived.
the panda is a संरक्षण reliant endangered प्रजाति.
A 2007 रपट shows 239 pandas living in captivity inside चीन and another 27 outside the देश.
जंगली population estimates vary ; one estimate shows that वहीँ हैं about 1,590 individuals living in the जंगली, जबकि a 2006 study via डीएनए analysis अनुमानित कि this figure could be as ऊँची as 2,000 to 3,000.
कुछ reports भी दिखाएँ that the क्रमांक of pandas in the जंगली is on the वृद्धि.
However, the आईयूसीएन करता नहीं believe वहीँ is enough certainty yet to reclassify the प्रजाति इससे endangered to vulnerable.
जबकि the ड्रैगन रै often परोसा as China 's national emblem, internationally the पांडा appears at तनिक as commonly.
as ऐसे, it is becoming widely प्रयुक्त भीतर China in international contexts, लिये example the five Fuwa mascots of the Beijing ओलंपिक.
the Kite धावक is a 2007 अमरीकी नाटक फिल्मी निर्देशित by मार्क Forster based on the novel of the वही name by Khaled Hosseini.
it tells the स्टोरी of आमिर, a well-to-do boy from the वज़ीर Akbar खान ज़िला of काबुल, who is tormented by the guilt of abandoning his dost हसन, the son of उसके पिता 's Hazara नौकर.
The स्टोरी is set विरूद्ध a backdrop of उग्र कार्यक्रम, from the fall of the monarchy in अफगानिस्तान through the Soviet सैन्य intervention, the द्रव्यमान exodus of Afghan शरणार्थियों to पाकिस्तानी and the संयुक्त States, and the तालिबान शासन.
हालांकि सबसे of the फिल्मी is set in अफगानिस्तान, these parts were ज़्यादातर शॉट in काश्गर, चीन, due to the खतरों of फिल्मांकन in अफगानिस्तान at the समय.
the majority of the film 's dialogue is in Dari, with the शेष बोला in English.
The चाइल्ड अभिनेताओं हैं native अध्यक्षों, लकिन अनेक वयस्क actors था to learn जमींदारी.
फिल्मांकन लपेटा up on दिसम्बर 21, 2006, और the film was अपेक्षित to be released on नवम्बर 2, 2007.
However, बाद चिंता लिये the safety of the young अभिनेताओं in the फिल्मी due to fears of violent reprisals to the यौन प्रकृति of some scenes in जिससे वे appear, इसके रिलीज तिथि थी pushed back छह weeks to दिसम्बर 14, 2007.
the पतंग धावक थी released on DVD on कूच 25, 2008.
a hd dvd रिलीज was announced लिये the वही तिथि, लकिन थी canceled following the स्वरूप 's demise.
The film थी मनोनीत for the सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये Best Foreign Language फिल्मी in 2007.
The फिल्मी 's स्कोर by अल्बर्टो Iglesias थी मनोनीत for Best असली स्कोर at the Golden ग्लोब्स और the अकादमी पुरस्कार.
the legality of कैनबिस varies इससे देश to देश.
Possession of cannabis is illegal in most countries and has been चूंकि the शुरूआत of widespread कैनबिस निषेध in the लेट 1930s.
however, अनेक देशों have decriminalized the कब्ज़ा of small quantities of कैनबिस, particularly in North अमेरिका, South अमेरिका and Europe.
furthermore, possession is विधिक or effectively विधिक in the Netherlands, North कोरियाई and would be in the u.S. राज्य of कोलोराडो and वॉशिंगटन if it were not लिये federal विधि, जिससे governs व्यक्तियों in all राज्य.
the medicinal उपयोग of cannabis is विधिक in a क्रमांक of देशों, including कनाडा, the चेक Republic और इसराईल.
While संघीय विधि in the संयुक्त राज्य bans सब sale और possession of कैनबिस, प्रवर्तन varies widely at the राज्य level और कुछ राज्य have established औषधीय मारिजुआना programs in that contradict संघीय विधि ; दो राज्य ( Colorado and वॉशिंगटन ) have repealed their कानून prohibiting the recreational उपयोग of कैनबिस and replaced उन्हें साथ a regulatory regime, also contrary to federal statute.
कुछ देशों have laws कि हैं not as vigorously prosecuted as अन्य लकिन, apart इससे the countries that प्रस्ताव अभिगम to चिकित्सा मारिजुआना, most countries have various दंड ranging इससे lenient to बहुत कठोर.
Some infractions हैं लिया more seriously in कुछ देशों than others in लिहाज़ to the cultivation, उपयोग, कब्ज़ा or ट्रांसफ़र of cannabis लिये recreational use.
A few jurisdictions have lessened दंड लिये कब्ज़ा of small quantities of कैनबिस, making it दंडनीय by confiscation और a ठीक, बल्कि than कारावास.
Some क्षेत्राधिकारs/ ड्रग courts उपयोग अनिवार्य treatment कार्यक्रम लिये young or बारंबार उपयोक्ता, साथ स्वतंत्रता इससे narcotic दवाएँ as the लक्ष्य and a few jurisdictions परमिट कैनबिस उपयोग for औषधीय purposes.
वहीँ are भी changes in a अधिक restrictive दिशा as in कनाडा.
ड्रग परीक्षण to detect कैनबिस are increasingly आम in many countries और have resulted in jail वाक्य और लोगों खोने their कार्य.
However, सरल possession can carry long jail वाक्य in कुछ देशों, विशेषकर in भाग of ईस्ट Asia and southeast एशिया where the बिक्री of कैनबिस may सीसे to a sentence of life in थाना or भी निष्पादन.
loxahatchee is a community स्तिथ in ताड़ बीच County, फ्लोरिडा, संयुक्त States.
It is located in the areas उत्तर of Wellington और वेस्ट and northwest of Royal Palm Beach, फ्लोरिडा और लगभग वेस्ट of वेस्ट ताड़ Beach.
loxahatchee is also the name of the पोस्ट Office कि serves इस area, which is अंतर्गत the zip code of 33470.
the name loxahatchee means `` turtle नदी. ''
loxahatchee is located भीतर the भारतीय trails सुधार District and the loxahatchee Groves Water कंट्रोल ज़िला.
शेर Country safari, a drive-through safari पार्क, is स्तिथ in Loxahatchee.
in 2006, the राज्य of फ्लोरिडा approved incorporation of भाग of Loxahatchee as the कस्बा of Loxahatchee groves to become the 38th नगरपालिका in ताड़ बीच County.
the प्रमुख reason for incorporating थी to better protect the क्षेत्रफल इससे बुवाई विकास and to preserve the ग्रामीण अक्षर of the पड़ोस.
Perhaps the सबसे rural क्षेत्रफल within a बंद निकटता to West ताड़ बीच, साथ लॉट sizes range इससे 1-20 एकड़.
साथ with the acreage, it is notable for ढीला जमीन restrictions और the देशी और exotic एनिमल उपस्थिति is काफी notable.
seminole लकीरें High स्कूल serves the area.
the कनाडाई Citizenship Test is a test, administered by नागरिकता and आव्रजन Canada ( सीआईसी ), कि is required for all आवेदकों for कनाडाई नागरिकता जो हैं aged between 18 and 54 and who मिलें the basic requirements लिये नागरिकता.
the परीक्षण is उपलब्धियाँ in both फ्रेंच और English, the आधिकारिक भाषाएं of कनाडा.
Renaissance क्रूज़, originally founded in 1989 स्वामित्व by Fearnley & eger Rederi in ओस्लो - Norway, बाद purchased by एडवर्ड rudner ( संस्थापक of Alamo car rental ) as the कम्पनी faltered during the गल्फ War.
They संचालित year-round क्रूज itineraries to the Mediterranean, the यूनानी Isles, tahiti और the दक्षिण Pacific, उत्तरी यूरोपीय और Scandinavia.
the कम्पनी ceased operations on 25 सितंबर 2001 और accommodated up to 220,000 अतिथि in 2000.
जबकि the कम्पनी था महरूम in ग़रीब financial स्वास्थ्य लिये quite some समय, the आर्थिक decline resulting इससे the सितंबर 11th आतंकवादी हमले हैं credited साथ the निधन of this क्रूज line.
the fleet is listed अंतर्गत सूची of क्रूज ships.
it थी headquartered in फोर्ट lauderdale, फ्लोरिडा.
epithelium is एक of the चार मौलिक types of एनिमल ऊतक, साथ with संयोजी ऊतक, muscle tissue और nervous tissue.
epithelial ऊतकों लकीर the कैविटी और surfaces of structures throughout the देह, and also रूप अनेक glands.
Functions of epithelial कोशिकाएं include स्राव, selective अवशोषण, protection, transcellular transport और detection of सनसनी.
In यूनानी `` ἐπί '' ( `` epi '' ) अर्थात् `` on '' or `` upon '', और `` θηλή '' ( `` thēlē '' ) means `` nipple ''.
epithelial परतों are avascular, so they must प्राप्त nourishment via diffusion of substances from the underlying संयोजी ऊतक, through the basement membrane.
epithelia can भी be organized into clusters of कोशिकाएं कि function as exocrine and endocrine ग्रंथियों.
Kent E. hovind ( born जनवरी 15, 1953 ) is an American young धरती creationist.
hovind रै spoken on सृष्टि विज्ञान और रै aimed to मनाना listeners to reject theories of एवोल्यूशन, भूभौतिकी, और cosmology in एहसान of उसके interpretation of the उत्पत्ति creation कथा from the Bible.
hovind 's दृश्य are contradicted by scientific प्रमाण और कुछ of उसके ideas have भी महरूम criticized by यंग Earth creationist organizations such as Answers in उत्पत्ति.
Hovind स्थापित the Creation विज्ञान Evangelism in 1991, और frequently spoke on यंग धरती creationism at seminars at private स्कूलों and चर्च, debates, और on रेडियो और television broadcasts.
चूंकि जनवरी 2007, Hovind रै महरूम सेवारत a ten-year थाना वाक्य after being convicted of 58 संघीय रिश्तो, सहित 12 कर offenses, one count of obstructing संघीय एजेंटों, and 45 रिश्तो of structuring नकदी ट्रांजेक्शन.
he is incarcerated at the संघीय Correctional Institution at बर्लिन, नई हैम्पशायर.
बहू साथ Bindi सजा माथे
a bindi (, इससे Sanskrit bindu, अर्थ `` a drop, छोटी कण, बिन्दु '' ), or a pottu/bottu ( in तमिल, तेलुगु, और मलयालम ) is a माथे सजावट worn in दक्षिण Asia ( विशेषकर इण्डिया, Bangladesh, नेपाल, श्री लंका and मॉरीशस ) और southeast एशिया.
traditionally it is a उज्जवल बिन्दु of रेड color लागू in the center of the माथे close to the eyebrows, लकिन it can भी consist of a चिह्न or piece of jewelry worn at इस स्थान.
the नई York gubernatorial election of 2010 थी आयोजित on मंगलवार, नवम्बर 2, 2010, to elect the Governor of नई यॉर्क, to serve a four-year पद that began in January 2011.
लाज़िम लोकतांत्रिक राज्यपाल David Paterson, elected as लेफ्टिनेंट Governor in 2006 as the कार्यशील mate of पूर्व राज्यपाल Eliot स्पिट्जर, chose not to चलाएं लिये a full-term.
on नवम्बर 2, नई York Attorney सामान्य and Democrat Andrew cuomo पराजित Republican कार्ल paladino.
Green पार्टी candidate Howie हॉकिन्स received over 57,000 मत, allowing the New York ग्रीन Party to be सूचीबद्ध on the बैलट लिये the next 4 years.
the main cast of Dragon बॉल at the end of the manga.
the ड्रैगन बॉल manga और anime श्रेणी सुविधाएँ an extensive cast of वर्ण created by अकिरा toriyama.
The series takes place in a fictional ब्रह्मांड, the same as toriyama 's पिछला श्रेणी Dr. Slump, and follows the adventures of martial कलाकार Son goku इससे childhood to adulthood as he searches लिये the seven spheres ज्ञात as the ड्रैगन गेंदें, प्रयुक्त to summon a wish-granting ड्रैगन.
During the कोर्स of the स्टोरी, he मुठभेड़ों allies ऐसे as Bulma, yamcha, kuririn और Trunks, rivals ऐसे as tenshinhan, piccolo and vegeta, and दुश्मनों ऐसे as Freeza और कोशिका.
जबकि अनेक of the characters हैं इंसानो साथ superhuman शक्ति and/or supernatural abilities, the cast भी includes anthropomorphic पशु और later, extraterrestrial lifeforms.
The श्रेणी भी शामिल depictions of the आफ्टरलाइफ, साथ several वर्ण being देवताओं कि govern the ब्रह्मांड.
250px
the comanche हैं a मैदान भारतीय जनजाति जिनकी historic territory, ज्ञात as Comancheria, consisted of उपस्थित day eastern नई मैक्सिको, दक्षिणी Colorado, northeastern एरिज़ोना, दक्षिणी कान्सास, सब of ओक्लाहोमा, और सबसे of northwest टेक्सास.
the Comanche लोगों are नामांकित in the federally पहचाना comanche Nation, in ओक्लाहोमा.
historically, the Comanches were hunter-gatherers with a घोड़ा संस्कृति.
वहीँ may have महरूम as many as 45,000 Comanches in the लेट 18th century.
आज, the Comanche स्वदेश comanche tribal नामांकन numbers 15,191 साथ approximately 7,763 members residing in the lawton – फोर्ट sill and surrounding areas of दक्षिणपश्चिम ओक्लाहोमा.
the comanche स्वदेश Homecoming powwow is आयोजित annually in Walters, Oklahoma in mid-july.
the comanche spoke the Comanche language, a Numic language of the uto-aztecan परिवार, sometimes classified as a Shoshone dialect ; however, तभी परिचय 1 % of Comanches speak it आज.
Ethan frome is a अनोखा प्रकाशित in 1911 by the पुलित्जर Prize -winning अमरीकी author एडिथ व्हार्टन.
it is नियत in the fictitious कस्बा of Starkfield, मैसाचुसेट्स.
the अनोखा was adapted into a फिल्मी, ethan Frome, in 1993.
टाइम्स वर्गाकार Studios ( TSS ) is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न studio located in the टाइम्स वर्गाकार पड़ोस of the Manhattan borough of New York नगर, नई यॉर्क.
the studio is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the production home of एबीसी न्यूज ' शुभ morning America ( GMA ), a morning न्यूज and बात कार्यक्रम और खण्ड लिये जीएमए on एबीसी न्यूज Now.
the Las Vegas Strip World of coca-cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a कार्बोनेटेड नरम पेय बेची in स्टोर्स, restaurants, और vending मशीने in प्रत्येक देश except क्यूबा और उत्तर कोरियाई.
it is उत्पादित by the Coca-Cola कम्पनी of Atlanta, Georgia, and is often referred to बस as Coke ( a registered ट्रेडमार्क of the Coca-Cola कम्पनी in the संयुक्त राज्य since कूच 27, 1944 ).
originally intended as a patent आयुर्विज्ञान when it थी invented in the late 19th century by जॉन pemberton, coca-cola थी खरीदा out by बिजनेसमैन asa griggs candler, जिनकी विपणन tactics led कोक to its दबदबा of the world soft-drink मार्केट throughout the 20th सदी.
The कम्पनी produces concentrate, which is तब sold to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the संसार.
the bottlers, जो थाम territorially विशेष अनुबंध साथ the कम्पनी, produce finished product in cans and bottles from the concentrate in संयोजन with filtered जल and sweeteners.
the bottlers तब बेचें, वितरित and merchandise Coca-Cola to खुदरा स्टोर्स और वेंडिंग मशीने.
ऐसे bottlers शामिल coca-cola उद्यमों, जिससे is the largest सिंगल Coca-Cola bottler in North अमेरिका and पश्चिमी Europe.
the coca-cola कम्पनी also बिकता concentrate for soda स्रोतों to प्रमुख रेस्तरां और खाना service distributors.
the coca-cola कम्पनी रै, on occasion, introduced अन्य cola drinks अंतर्गत the Coke brand नाम.
The सबसे आम of ये is आहार कोक, साथ अन्य सहित Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola, Diet कोक caffeine-free, coca-cola Cherry, coca-cola Zero, coca-cola Vanilla, और खास संस्करण साथ नीबू, लाइम or coffee.
Based on interbrand 's best global brand 2011, Coca-Cola थी the संसार 's सबसे valuable ब्रांड.
प्रकार of bar-lines
in musical संकेतन, a बार ( or माप ) is a खण्ड of समय पारिभाषित by a दिए क्रमांक of बीट्स, each of which are आबंटित a particular नोट value.
dividing म्यूज़िक into bars provides नियमित reference points to pin point locations भीतर a टुकड़ा of music.
it also makes written music easier to follow, since प्रत्येक बार of स्टाफ प्रतीकों can be पढ़ा और निभाई as a batch.
Typically, a piece consists of several बार of the वही length, और in आधुनिक musical संकेतन the क्रमांक of बीट्स in each bar is specified at the beginning of the score by the top number of a time हस्ताक्षर ( such as 3/4 ), while the नीचे क्रमांक indicates the नोट मान of the ताल ( the beat रै a quarter नोट मान in the 3/4 example ).
the शब्द बार is more common in British English, and the word माप is more आम in American अंग्रेज़ी, हालांकि संगीतकारों generally understand both usages.
in अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी, although the शब्द बार and माप हैं often used interchangeably the सही उपयोग of the शब्द 'bar ' refers तभी to the लंबवत line itself, जबकि the शब्द 'measure ' refers to the बीट्स contained between bars.
In अंतरराष्ट्रीय उपयोग, it is equally सही to speak of बार संख्याएँ and measure संख्याएँ, e.g. ‘bars 9–16’ or ‘mm. 9–16’.
Along the वही लाइनों, it is हिकमत to आरक्षित the abbreviated रूप ‘bb.
3–4’ etc. लिये beats तभी ; बार चाहिए be referred to by नाम in full.
The first metrically पूरा माप within a टुकड़ा of music is पुकारा ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’.
जब the टुकड़ा begins with an anacrusis ( an incomplete measure at the head of a piece of म्यूज़िक ), ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’ is the following माप.
The 19.9 MW gemasolar सौर plant in स्पेन features 15 घंटों of भंडार and can supply शक्ति 24 hours a दिन.
Solar energy, रौशन light और heat from the सूर्य, has महरूम harnessed by humans चूंकि ancient times using a दायरा of ever-evolving technologies.
सौर उर्जा technologies शामिल सौर हीटिंग, solar photovoltaics, सौर thermal electricity, solar architecture and कृत्रिम photosynthesis, which can मेक considerable योगदान to solving some of the most urgent उर्जा problems the संसार अभी चेहरों.
सौर technologies हैं broadly characterized as either passive सौर or क्रियाशील सौर depending on the रास्ता वे कैप्चर, convert और distribute सौर energy.
क्रियाशील सौर तकनीकों शामिल the use of photovoltaic panels और सौर thermal collectors to harness the उर्जा.
Passive सौर तकनीकों include orienting a भवन to the सूर्य, selecting materials साथ favorable थर्मल mass or लाइट dispersing properties, and डिजाइनिंग स्पेसेस कि naturally circulate air.
in 2011, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय उर्जा एजेंसी said that `` the विकास of affordable, inexhaustible और साफ सौर energy technologies होगा have विशाल longer-term लाभ.
It will बढ़ाएँ countries’ energy सुरक्षा through रिलायंस on an स्वदेशी, inexhaustible और mostly import-independent संसाधन, बढ़ाएँ sustainability, reduce pollution, निम्नतर the लागत of mitigating जलवायु बदलें, और रखना चट्टान fuel कीमतें lower than otherwise.
ये लाभ are global.
Hence the additional लागत of the प्रोत्साहन for जल्दी deployment चाहिए be considered learning investments ; they जरूर be बुद्धिमानी खर्च और need to be widely shared ''.
प्राथमिक परवाह may be provided in जातियाँ स्वास्थ्य केंद्रों.
प्राथमिक care is the स्वास्थ्य परवाह दिए by a स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रदाता.
typically this प्रदाता अधिनियमों as the principal पाइंट of परामर्श लिये patients within a स्वास्थ्य परवाह system और निर्देशांक अन्य specialists कि the रोगी may need.
Such a professional can be a प्राथमिक परवाह चिकित्सक, ऐसे as a general practitioner or family physician, or depending on the मोहल्ले, स्वास्थ्य प्रणाली संगठन, और patient 's discretion, वे may see a फार्मासिस्ट, a physician assistant, a नर्स practitioner, a nurse ( such as in the United किंगडम ), a नैदानिक अधिकारी ( ऐसे as in parts of Africa ), or an आयुर्वेदिक or अन्य traditional आयुर्विज्ञान पेशेवर ( ऐसे as in भाग of एशिया ).
Depending on the प्रकृति of the health कंडीशन, patients may तब be referred लिये secondary or tertiary परवाह.
`` समंदर Avenue '' is a सोंग अंकित by अमरीकी पॉप punk group Yellowcard.
It was released in फ़रवरी 2004 as the second single इससे समंदर Avenue और the तीसरा track.
it is known for bringing them into the मुख्यधारा, as it received numerous spins on एमटीवी and increasing radio airplay.
समंदर Avenue is a street in Jacksonville, फ्लोरिडा, the बैंड 's stomping grounds near their high स्कूल, डगलस Anderson स्कूल of the कला, और another गली उल्लेखित in the song, Cherry गली.
The name of Ocean एवेन्यू in jacksonville is actually Beach Boulevard.
वे left their असली आधार पीछे when they स्थानांतरित to Los एंजिल्स.
The song थी प्रदर्शित on the Much म्यूज़िक संकलन album बिग चमकदार धुनें 9.
a psychiatrist is a physician जो specializes in psychiatry.
A psychiatrist specializes in the उपचार of mental विकार.
psychiatrists are प्राधिकृत to prescribe आयुर्विज्ञान, conduct शारीरिक examinations, order and interpret प्रयोगशाला परीक्षण, use मनोचिकित्सा और may अनुक्रम brain imaging अध्ययन such as computed tomography ( CT/CAT Scan ), चुम्बकीय resonance imaging ( mri ), and positron उत्सर्जन टोमोग्राफी ( पालतु ) स्कैनिंग.
Within the फ्रेमवर्क of the World Health संगठन 's ( जो ) definition of स्वास्थ्य as a state of complete physical, दिमागी और सोशल well-being, and नहीं merely the अनुपस्थिति of बीमारी or infirmity, reproductive स्वास्थ्य, or sexual health/hygiene, addresses the reproductive प्रक्रियाओं, कृत्यों and system at सब चरण of life.
Reproductive स्वास्थ्य, therefore, implies that people are able to have a जिम्मेदार, संतोषजनक और safer sex जीवन और कि they have the काबिलियत to reproduce and the स्वतंत्रता to decide if, जब and how प्रायः to do so.
एक निर्वचन of इस implies that मेन और महिलाओं ought to be informed of and to have अभिगम to सुरक्षित, प्रभावी, affordable और स्वीकार्य विधि of जनम control ; also access to appropriate स्वास्थ्य परवाह सेवाएं of sexual, reproductive medicine और implementation of स्वास्थ्य शिक्षा कार्यक्रम to तनाव the महत्व of women to go सकुशल through गर्भावस्था और प्रसव could provide युगल साथ the बेहतरीन chance of having a स्वस्थ शिशु.
on the other hand individuals do फेस inequalities in reproductive स्वास्थ्य सेवाएं.
inequalities vary आधारित on socioeconomic औकात, शिक्षा level, आयु, नस्ल, धर्म, and संसाधन available in उनके environment.
It is संभावित लिये example, कि कम आय individuals कमी the संसाधन लिये appropriate स्वास्थ्य सेवाएं and the ज्ञान to जान what is उचित लिये maintaining reproductive health.
according to the जो, `` Reproductive and sexual ill-health accounts लिये 20 % of the वैश्विक बोझ of ill-health for महिलाओं, and 14 % for men. ''
reproductive स्वास्थ्य is a भाग of यौन और reproductive health और rights.
इस is a सूची of एपीसोड लिये the Disney चैनल असली श्रेणी the सुइट जीवन on डेक, which aired for three सीज़न on Disney चैनल from सितंबर 26, 2008 to may 6, 2011.
कोर 2 is a ब्रांड encompassing a दायरा of इंटेल 's उपभोक्ता 64-bit x86-64 single-, दुआl-, और quad-core microprocessors आधारित on the कोर microarchitecture.
The single- और dual-core models हैं single- die, whereas the quad-core models comprise दो dies, प्रत्येक containing दो cores, packaged in a multi-chip मोड्यूल.
The परिचय of Core 2 relegated the pentium brand to the mid-range market, और reunified लैपटॉप और desktop cpu लाइनों, which previously था महरूम विभाजित into the Pentium 4, pentium d, and pentium M ब्रांड्स.
the Core 2 brand was introduced on 27 जुलाई 2006, comprising the सोलो ( single-core ), Duo ( dual-core ), Quad ( quad-core ), और in 2007, the चरम ( dual- or quad-core cpu लिये enthusiasts ) subbrands.
Intel Core 2 processors with vpro प्रौद्योगिकी ( designed लिये businesses ) शामिल the dual-core और quad-core branches.
the सुपर कटोरी is the annual चैंपियनशिप खेल of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ), the उच्चतम स्तर of पेशेवर American फ़ुटबॉल in the United राज्य, culminating a season कि begins in the लेट summer of the previous calendar साल.
the सुपर कटोरी उपयोग Roman numerals to identify प्रत्येक खेल, बल्कि than the साल in जिससे it is held.
लिये example, सुपर Bowl I थी played on जनवरी 15, 1967, following the 1966 नियमित ऋतु, जबकि सुपर Bowl xlvii थी निभाई on फ़रवरी 3, 2013, following the 2012 ऋतु.
the game was निर्मित as भाग of a विलय अनुबंध between the एनएफएल और its then-rival league, the American Football लीग ( afl ).
it थी सहमत that the दो लीग ' champion टीमों would play in an AFL–NFL World Championship Game until the विलय थी to officially begin in 1970.
बाद the विलय, each लीग थी redesignated as a `` सम्मेलन ``, and the खेल थी then निभाई between the सम्मेलन champions.
Currently, the National Football सम्मेलन ( NFC ) लीड the श्रेणी साथ 25 विन्स to 22 विन्स for the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc ).
the day on जिससे the सुपर कटोरी is निभाई, अभी considered by कुछ a de facto American नेशनल holiday, is called `` सुपर Bowl Sunday ``.
it is the second-largest day लिये u.S. food खपत, बाद थैंक्सगिविंग Day.
In जोड, the Super Bowl has frequently महरूम the सबसे watched अमरीकी television broadcast of the साल.
Super Bowl xlv, निभाई in 2011, became the most-watched अमरीकी टेलीविज़न program in इतिहास, drawing an औसत दर्शक of 111 million दर्शक and taking over the spot आयोजित by the previous year 's Super Bowl, which itself had लिया over the # 1 spot आयोजित लिये twenty-eight years by the final एपीसोड of M*A*S*H.
the सुपर Bowl is also among the most watched sporting कार्यक्रम in the संसार, almost सब होने North American ऑडियंस, और is second to संघ फ़ुटबॉल ’s यूईएफए champions लीग final as the most watched annual sporting इवेंट worldwide.
क्युकी of its ऊँची viewership, commercial airtime during the सुपर कटोरी broadcast is the most expensive of the year.
due to the ऊँची cost of निवेश in advertising on the सुपर कटोरी, कंपनियाँ regularly develop उनके सबसे expensive advertisements लिये this ब्रॉडकास्ट.
as a परिणाम, watching और discussing the ब्रॉडकास्ट 's commercials has become a significant aspect of the event.
in addition, अनेक लोकप्रिय गायकों और musicians have performed दौरान the इवेंट 's pre-game और मध्यांतर ceremonies क्युकी of the एक्सपोज़र.
फिओना is a feminine दिए नाम.
The name फिओना was invented, and पहला used, by the स्कॉटिश poet James macpherson ( 1736–96 ), author of the Ossian poems, जिससे he claimed were अनुवाद from प्राचीन गैलिक स्त्रोत ( स्त्रोत, जब challenged, he never produced ).
The name थी subsequently प्रयुक्त as a pseudonym by William Sharp ( 1855–1905 ), who authored अनेक romantic works अंतर्गत the नाम `` फिओना Macleod ''.
the name रै चूंकि become popular in इंग्लैण्ड, स्कॉटलैंड and आयरलैंड.
the नाम is माना to be a latinised रूप of the Gaelic शब्द fionn, अर्थ `` श्वेत '', `` मेला ''.
the name फिओना is भी sometimes used as an Anglicisation of the irish-language name fíona, हालांकि ये names are otherwise unrelated ( as fíona is निकला इससे an तत्व अर्थ `` बेल '' ).
There is also a आधुनिक tendency to equate the प्रामाणिक Scottish Gaelic feminine name fionnghal साथ Fiona.
the name Fiona is उठती in लोकप्रियता particularly in जर्मनी -speaking countries.
फिओना थी the 49th सबसे popular नाम लिये baby लड़कियों born in 2008 in Germany.
Fiona थी tied लिये third प्लेस in the ranking of most लोकप्रिय names लिये baby girls born in the tiny principality of Liechtenstein in 2008.
the नाम was the 347th सबसे लोकप्रिय नाम for लड़कियों born in the संयुक्त States in 2008, जहाँ it has क्रमित among the top 1,000 सबसे popular names लिये girls since 1990 और among the शीर्ष 500 चूंकि 1999.
The नाम फिओना has महरूम विशेषकर लोकप्रिय लिये girls of एशियाई or Pacific Islander descent in New यॉर्क City, where Fiona क्रमित as the ninth most लोकप्रिय नाम लिये लड़कियों इससे those समूह in 2007.
Many भाषाएं हैं used, or historically have महरूम used in the United राज्य.
The most commonly used भाषा is English.
वहीँ are also अनेक languages स्वदेशी to उत्तर America or to U.S. राज्य or holdings in the प्रशांत प्रदेश.
भाषाएं brought to the देश by colonists or immigrants from Europe, Asia, or other भाग of the world मेक up a large portion of the भाषाएं फिलहाल प्रयुक्त ; several languages, including creoles और sign भाषाएं, have भी विकसित in the संयुक्त राज्य.
लगभग 337 भाषाएं हैं बोला or signed by the जनसांख्यिकी, of जिससे 176 are indigenous to the क्षेत्रफल.
Fifty-two languages formerly बोला in the देश 's territory are now विलुप्त.
The किस्में of English spoken in the संयुक्त राज्य is known as अमरीकी English.
अंग्रेज़ी is the de facto नेशनल भाषा of the संयुक्त राज्य, साथ 80 % of the population claiming it as a माँ tongue, and कुछ 95 % claiming to बोलो it `` खूब '' or `` बहुत खूब ''.
however, no official भाषा exists at the संघीय स्तर.
वहीँ have been अनेक proposals to मेक English the national भाषा in amendments to आव्रजन सुधार bills, but none of ये बिल्स रै become विधि with the amendment intact.
the हालात is quite varied at the राज्य और territorial levels, with some राज्य mirroring the संघीय policy of adopting no आधिकारिक language in a de jure capacity, अन्य adopting English अलोन, अन्य officially adopting अंग्रेज़ी as खूब as local भाषाएं, और still अन्य adopting a नीति of de facto bilingualism.
स्पेनी is the दूसरी most common भाषा in the देश, and is spoken by over 12 % of the population.
The United States holds the world 's पांचवां largest spanish-speaking population, outnumbered only by मैक्सिको, स्पेन, कोलंबिया, और अर्जेंटीना.
Throughout the southwestern United राज्य, long-established spanish-speaking समुदायों coexist साथ large संख्याएँ of more हाल hispanophone immigrants.
हालांकि many नई लैटिन अमरीकी immigrants are less than fluent in अंग्रेज़ी, nearly all second-generation Hispanic अमेरिकी बोलो अंग्रेज़ी धड़ल्ले, जबकि only about हाफ स्टिल बोलो Spanish.
according to the 2000 us जनसांख्यिकी, लोगों of जर्मनी ancestry मेक up the largest सिंगल जातीय समूह in the संयुक्त राज्य, और the जर्मनी भाषा ranks fifth.
इतालवी, Polish, and फ्रेंच हैं स्टिल widely बोला among populations descending इससे आप्रवासियों इससे those countries in the जल्दी 20th सदी, but the उपयोग of ये भाषाएं is dwindling as the पुरानी पीढियां die.
रूसी is also spoken by immigrant populations.
Tagalog and वियतनामी have over एक लाख अध्यक्षों प्रत्येक in the United States, almost entirely within हाल immigrant populations.
दोनो भाषाएं, साथ साथ the varieties of the Chinese भाषा, Japanese, and कोरियाई, are अभी used in चुनावों in अलास्का, California, हवाई, Illinois, नई यॉर्क, टेक्सास, and Washington.
देशी अमरीकी languages हैं बोला in smaller pockets of the country, but these populations हैं अवरोहण, और the भाषाएं हैं लगभग never widely used बाहर of reservations.
हवाई, although having few देशी अध्यक्षों, is an official भाषा along साथ अंग्रेज़ी at the state स्तर in हवाई.
The राज्य सरकारी of louisiana offers सेवाएं और documents in फ्रेंच, as करता नई मैक्सिको in Spanish.
besides अंग्रेज़ी, स्पेनी, French, जर्मनी, navajo and other देशी American languages, सब अन्य languages हैं प्रायः सीखे इससे अप्रवासी पूर्वजो कि आए after the समय of स्वतंत्रता or learned through कुछ रूप of education.
1990 's pontiac Grand am सेडान फेंडर और quarter फलक
On an ऑटोमोबाइल, a क्वार्टर panel ( or rear wing as it is known in अंग्रेजों English ) is usually considered the body फलक which goes between the पश्च door और the ट्रंक and typically wraps around the wheel खूब ; however, the similar front section फेंडर ( vehicle ), between the द्वार और the हुड, is sometimes incorrectly referred to as a क्वार्टर फलक.
the क्वार्टर panel is typically बना of Sheet मेटल, लकिन is sometimes बना of fiberglass or fiber-reinforced प्लास्टिक ; हालांकि, इस varies साथ different makes और मॉडल.
a quarter panel is typically a welded on घटक of the uni-body ढांचा or Monocoque.
बदलना of a चादर metal क्वार्टर फलक typically requires it to be काटें off the गाडी and a बदलना भाग to be welded ( or sometimes बंधुआ ) to the गाडी.
due to इस high amount of specialized मजदूर, a क्वार्टर फलक may प्रायः be repaired बल्कि than replaced by hammering आउट the क्षति, और a देह फिलर sometimes referred to as bondo to be लागू to finalize the original सतह.
shropshire ( or ; alternatively salop ; abbreviated, in print only, shrops ) is a county in the वेस्ट Midlands region of England.
it सीमायें वेल्स to the वेस्ट, चेशायर to the उत्तर, staffordshire to the east, Worcestershire to the south-east and herefordshire to the दक्षिण.
a एकात्मक प्राधिकार ( Shropshire परिषद ) was निर्मित on 1 April 2009, taking over इससे the previous county council and 5 district councils, और कवर most of the काउंटी.
the borough of telford और Wrekin has been a पृथक एकात्मक authority चूंकि 1998 लकिन continues to be शामिल in the ceremonial काउंटी.
The county 's population और economy is centred on पाँच कस्बों : the काउंटी town of Shrewsbury, जिससे is culturally और historically important and is स्तिथ in the केन्द्र of the काउंटी ; telford, a new कस्बा in the east जिससे थी constructed around a क्रमांक of पुरानी towns, सबसे notably Wellington, dawley और Madeley, जिससे is आज the most populous ; and Oswestry in the north-west, Bridgnorth just to the दक्षिण of telford, और Ludlow in the south.
the काउंटी has अनेक further मार्केट कस्बों, सहित whitchurch in the उत्तर, न्यूपोर्ट just to the north-east of telford, और मार्केट drayton in the north-east of the काउंटी.
The Ironbridge Gorge area is a युनेस्को संसार Heritage साईट, covering Ironbridge, coalbrookdale और a part of madeley.
वहीँ हैं, additionally, अन्य notable ऐतिहासिक industrial sites located around the county, ऐसे as at shrewsbury, Broseley, Snailbeach और highley as well as the Shropshire Union कनाल.
the Shropshire पहाड़ियाँ क्षेत्रफल of बकाया प्राकृतिक सौंदर्य covers परिचय a क्वार्टर of the काउंटी, मुख्यतः in the south.
Shropshire is one of इंग्लैण्ड 's सबसे ग्रामीण और sparsely आबादी counties, साथ the population घनत्व of the Shropshire परिषद area होने बस 91/km2 ( 337/sq mi ).
the Wrekin is एक of the सबसे famous प्राकृतिक लैंडमार्क in the काउंटी, हालांकि the उच्चतम पहाड़ियाँ हैं the clee Hills, Stiperstones और the Long Mynd.
Wenlock किनारे is another significant geographical and geological लैंडमार्क.
In the low-lying उत्तरपश्चिम of the county ( और अतिव्यापी the border साथ वेल्स ) is the fenn 's, whixall और Bettisfield mosses नेशनल Nature आरक्षित, one of the most महत्वपूर्ण and बेहतरीन preserved bogs in ब्रिटेन.
The नदी Severn, ग्रेट Britain 's longest river, रनों through the county, exiting into Worcestershire via the severn घाटी.
shropshire is landlocked, और साथ an area of, is England 's largest अंतर्देशीय county.
The काउंटी flower is the round-leaved sundew.
लिये eurostat उद्देश्य, the काउंटी ( कम the एकात्मक ज़िला of telford and Wrekin ) is a NUTS 3 प्रदेश ( code UKG22 ).
the दो shropshire एकात्मक areas ( covering सब of the ceremonial काउंटी ), together साथ the अधिकारियों covering the ceremonial काउंटी of staffordshire, comprise the `` Shropshire और Staffordshire '' NUTS 2 region.
The Big Bang सिद्धान्त cast at कॉमिक Con 2009, from बाएँ : कुणाल नय्यर, Simon helberg, kaley Cuoco, Jim पार्सन्स, और Johnny galecki
the अमरीकी sitcom The Big Bang Theory, created and कार्यपालिका produced by चक Lorre and विधेयक prady, premiered on सीबीएस on सितंबर 24, 2007.
the show centers on five characters : roommates शेल्डन कूपर और लियोनार्ड hofstadter, two Caltech physicists ; पैनी, a waitress और aspiring actress who जीवनदान across the हॉल ; और लियोनार्ड and शेल्डन 's friends and co-workers aerospace इंजीनियर हावर्ड Wolowitz, और astrophysicist राजेश koothrappali.
over समय, अनेक supporting वर्ण have been प्रचारित to अभिनीत भूमिकाएँ : Leslie winkle ( season 1 recurring ; season 2 regular ; ऋतु 3 अतिथि ), a physicist सहयोगी, and, at अलग टाइम्स, a प्रेमी of दोनो लियोनार्ड और Howard ; bernadette Rostenkowski-Wolowitz ( ऋतु 3 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 4-present regular ), a microbiologist, हावर्ड 's fiancée और subsequent wife, and former part-time waitress alongside Penny ; neuroscientist एमी farrah fowler ( season 3 अतिथि ; season 4 recurring ; season 4-present regular ), जो joins the समूह after होने matched to शेल्डन on a dating जालस्थल ; और कॉमिक किताब store-owner, स्टुअर्ट खिलते ( सीज़न 2–5 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 6-present नियमित ), जो replaces हावर्ड as राज 's बेहतरीन friend when Howard is in स्पेस.
the show भी सुविधाएँ numerous supporting characters, प्रत्येक of जिसको plays a prominent भूमिका in a छोटी समूह of episodes.
the A-Team is an अमरीकी action-adventure टेलीविज़न series, running इससे 1983 to 1987, about a fictional group of ex– United States फौज खास Forces कर्मियों जो work as सैनिको of सौभाग्य, जबकि on the चलाएं इससे the फौज after being branded as युद्ध अपराधियों लिये a `` अपराधों वे did n't commit ``.
a विशेषता film based on the series was released by 20th Century फॉक्स on जून 11, 2010.
A कॉमिक किताब series, a-team : Shotgun विवाह, began March 9, 2010.
डायना Prince is a fictional अक्षर appearing regularly in कहानियां प्रकाशित by DC कॉमिक्स.
वो debuted in सनसनी Comics # 1 ( जनवरी 1942 ) and serves as the civilian और secret identity of the सुपरहीरो अचरज स्त्री.
the character थी created by चार्ल्स moulton और हैरी G. Peter.
वाट phra kaew, बैंकॉक, थाईलैंड
वहीँ is no official राज्य धर्म in the थाई संविधान, which guarantees धार्मिक स्वतंत्रता for सब थाई नागरिकों, हालांकि the king is required by विधि to be बौद्ध.
According to the पिछला census ( 2000 ) 94.6 % of thais are Buddhists of the थेरवाद tradition.
मुसलमान हैं the दूसरी largest religious समूह in थाईलैंड at 4.6 %.
थाईलैंड 's southernmost प्रांतों - pattani, yala, narathiwat and part of songkhla chumphon have dominant मुस्लिम populations, consisting of दोनो जातीय Thai और मलय.
The दक्षिणी टिप of Thailand is ज़्यादातर ethnic Malays.
ईसाइयों, मुख्यतः catholics, represent 0.7 % of the जनसांख्यिकी.
A small लकिन influential जातियाँ of सिखों in Thailand and कुछ Hindus भी सजीव in the country 's cities, and हैं heavily सगाई in खुदरा कॉमर्स.
There is also a small यहूदी community in Thailand, डेटिंग back to the 17th सदी.
Since 2001, Muslim कार्यकर्ताओं, generally वर्णित by the Thai सरकारी as आतंकवादी or separatists, have rallied विरूद्ध the सेंट्रल government because of कथित corruption और जातीय bias on the part of officials.
Thailand 's विभाग of धर्म, फिलहाल under the मंत्रालय of Culture, is formally जिम्मेदार लिये the पंजीकरण of धार्मिक समूह in थाईलैंड url_http जिससे थाम गुण through legally स्थापित foundations.
It रै oversight, साथ साथ the आव्रजन पुलिस, over the कार्य permits of प्रचारकों जो हैं `` प्रवासी धार्मिक workers '' of सब religions.
A value added कर ( vat ) is a रूप of खपत कर.
इससे the परिप्रेक्ष्य of the खरीदार, it is a कर on the purchase price.
इससे कि of the विक्रेता, it is a कर only on the value added to a उत्पाद, सामग्री, or service, from an हिसाब पाइंट of view, by इस stage of its manufacture or वितरण.
The निर्माता remits to the सरकारी the difference between ये दो amounts, and retains the बाकी लिये themselves to ऑफसेट the taxes they had previously सशुल्क on the inputs.
the मान added to a product by or साथ a कारोबार is the बिक्री दाम चार्ज to इसके customer, ऋण the लागत of materials और अन्य taxable inputs.
A vat is जैसे a बिक्री कर in कि ultimately only the समाप्त उपभोक्ता is taxed.
it differs इससे the sales कर in that, with the latter, the tax is collected और remitted to the सरकारी only once, at the पाइंट of खरीदें by the end consumer.
With the vat, collections, remittances to the सरकारी, and क्रेडिट लिये कर already सशुल्क occur प्रत्येक समय a business in the supply कड़ी purchases उत्पाद.
a referee कॉलिंग a high-sticking penaltyHigh
-sticking is the name of दो infractions in the खेल of ice हॉकी कि may occur when a खिलाड़ी intentionally or inadvertently plays साथ उसके or उसके stick ऊपर the ऊँचाई of the कन्धों or above the क्रॉस बार of a hockey goal.
This can परिणाम in a stoppage of खेल or in a penalty.
in the rules of the नेशनल Hockey लीग, high-sticking is पारिभाषित as a दंड in Rule 60 और as a non-penalty बेईमानी in नियम 80.
A stoppage in play results if a ऊँची स्टिक comes in सम्पर्क with the puck और the team who touched it regains कंट्रोल of the पक.
However, खेल usually continues if a खिलाड़ी touches the पक with a ऊँची स्टिक and the opposing टोली gains control of the पक.
if the पक goes into the opposing net बाद coming into सम्पर्क with a high स्टिक, the लक्ष्य is प्रतिबंधित.
The level at जिससे a स्टिक is माना too ऊँची for a लक्ष्य is the crossbar of the net.
However, if a खिलाड़ी knocks the पक into उसके अपना जाल साथ a high स्टिक, the goal is अनुमत.
a penalty is assessed if a खिलाड़ी हमलों another player with a ऊँची स्टिक.
the खिलाड़ी is दिए a नाबालिग दंड unless his high स्टिक caused an injury, in जिससे मामला the referee has the option to assess a double-minor, major or match penalty.
it is the रेफरी 's discretion which दंड to assess : the नियम काल्स for a दोगुना नाबालिग लिये an आकस्मिक चोट, or a मैच penalty लिये a deliberate attempt to injure ( whether the विपक्ष खिलाड़ी थी दरअसल injured ).
Injury is प्रायः decided by the ऊँची स्टिक causing bleeding, but the उपस्थिति of रक्त does नहीं automatically औसत an extra दंड is awarded.
कुछ referees have been ज्ञात to award an अतिरिक्त दंड बगैर the presence of रक्त if the referee determines that the चोट sustained थी sufficient to warrant a double-minor penalty.
Typical आधुनिक memory कार्ड reader, compatible साथ अनेक आम formats
A मेमोरी card रीडर is a device, typically having a USB interface, लिये accessing the आंकड़ा on a मेमोरी कार्ड ऐसे as a CompactFlash ( cf ), सुरक्षित Digital ( sd ) or multimediacard ( MMC ).
Most कार्ड readers also offer write काबिलियत, और साथ with the कार्ड, this can function as a pen drive.
कुछ मुद्रक and personal कंप्यूटर have a built-in card reader.
a मल्टी card रीडर is प्रयुक्त लिये संचार साथ अधिक than one प्रकार of फ्लैश मेमोरी कार्ड.
Multi कार्ड पाठक do नहीं have built-in memory क्षमता, but are समर्थ to accept अनेक types और शैलियाँ of मेमोरी ताश.
The क्रमांक of संगत memory ताश varies from reader to reader and can शामिल more than 20 different प्रकार.
the क्रमांक of अलग मेमोरी cards कि a मल्टी कार्ड reader can accept is expressed as x-in-1, with x होने a figure of merit indicating the number of memory ताश accepted, ऐसे as 35-in-1.
वहीँ are तीन श्रेणी of कार्ड पाठक sorted by the type और quantity of the कार्ड slots : सिंगल कार्ड रीडर ( e.g. 1x sd-only ), मल्टी card रीडर ( e.g. 9-in-1 ) और श्रेणी कार्ड रीडर ( e.g. 4x SD तभी ).
कुछ kinds of मेमोरी cards with उनके own USB कृत्यों do not need the card reader, such as the बुद्धिमान स्टिक मेमोरी card, जिससे can प्लग सीधे into a usb स्लॉट.
the usb device class प्रयुक्त is 0x08.
Bullying is हानिकारक to students ' well-being और विकास.
धमकाना is the उपयोग of force or coercion to abuse or intimidate others.
the behavior can be habitual and involve an असंतुलन of सोशल or physical power.
it can शामिल verbal harassment or threat, शारीरिक उत्पीड़न or coercion और may be निर्देशित repeatedly towards particular पीड़ितों, perhaps on grounds of रेस, religion, gender, कामुकता, or ability.
if धमकाना is किया by a group, it is called mobbing.
The शिकार of धमकाना is sometimes referred to as a `` निशाना ''.
धमकाना can be पारिभाषित in अनेक different ways.
The UK फिलहाल has no legal परिभाषा of bullying, जबकि some u.S. states have कानून विरूद्ध it.
Bullying consists of तीन मौलिक प्रकार of abuse – emotional, मौखिक, and physical.
It typically involves हल्का methods of coercion such as intimidation.
धमकाना ranges इससे सरल one-on-one धमकाना to more जटिल धमकाना in जिससे the bully may have एक or more `` lieutenants '' who may seem to be willing to assist the primary बुली in उसके or उसके धमकाना क्रियाएँ.
Bullying in स्कूल और the कार्यस्थल is भी referred to as पीर abuse.
रॉबर्ट W. फुलर रै analyzed bullying in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of rankism.
A धमकाना culture can develop in कोई context in जिससे human beings interact with प्रत्येक other.
This includes स्कूल, church, family, the workplace, घर, और पड़ोस.
प्रसन्न slapping in the instituto Regional federico errázuriz, सांता क्रूज़, चिली
Laura Bush और Rae Leigh Bradbury ( formerly missing ) on April 4, 2007, in ऑस्टिन, टेक्सास, after the 8-year-old introduced Mrs. बुश during घोषणा of the भविष्य खोलने of the टेक्सास क्षेत्रीय Office of the नेशनल Center लिये लापता and शोषित children.
Rae Leigh थी the पहला चाइल्ड in the u.S. to be बरामद as a result of an एम्बर चेतावनी when she was 8 weeks old in नवम्बर 1998.
An एम्बर चेतावनी or a चाइल्ड abduction Emergency ( वही कोड : CAE ) is a चाइल्ड abduction चेतावनी system originating in 1996, now employed in 9 देशों.
AMBER is officially a backronym लिये अमेरिका 's Missing : Broadcasting Emergency Response, named लिये एम्बर Hagerman, a 9-year-old abducted और murdered in आर्लिंगटन, Texas in 1996.
Alternate regional चेतावनी names यहूद once used ; in Georgia, `` लेवी 's कॉल '' ( नामित after लेवी frady ) ; in हवाई, `` maile एम्बर Alert '' ( बाद maile गिल्बर्ट ) ; और अरकंसास, `` Morgan उपनाम Amber चेतावनी '' ( in memory of मॉर्गन Chauntel Nick ).
एम्बर Alerts are distributed via वाणिज्यिक radio स्टेशन, Internet रेडियो, उपग्रह रेडियो, टेलीविज़न स्टेशन, और केबल tv by the आपात चेतावनी System and NOAA मौसम Radio ( जहाँ वे हैं termed `` Child abduction Emergency '' or `` Amber Alerts '' ).
The चेतावनियाँ हैं also जारी via e-mail, electronic traffic-condition लक्षण, the LED billboards which are स्तिथ बाहर of नए walgreens स्थितियाँ, along साथ the led/lcd लक्षण of billboard companies such as Clear Channel बाहरी, CBS Outdoor and Lamar, or through wireless device SMS text messages.
एम्बर चेतावनी has also teamed up with Google और फेसबुक to रिले information regarding an AMBER Alert to an कभी growing जनसांख्यिकी.
Those दिलचस्पी in subscribing to प्राप्त AMBER Alerts in their क्षेत्रफल via sms messages can विज़िट बेतार Amber चेतावनियाँ, जिससे are offered by विधि as फ़्री संदेश.
in some states, the प्रदर्शक scrollboards in सामने of lottery terminals are also used.
the decision to declare an एम्बर Alert is made by प्रत्येक police organization ( in अनेक मामले, the state पुलिस or राजमार्ग patrol ) which investigates प्रत्येक of the abductions.
पब्लिक सूचना in an AMBER Alert usually consists of the नाम और description of the abductee, a वर्णन of the suspected abductor, and a description और अनुज्ञा plate क्रमांक of the abductor 's vehicle, if उपलब्धियाँ.
मोनिका samille lewinsky ( born जुलाई 23, 1973 ) is an अमरीकी woman साथ जिसको संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्ष विधेयक क्लिंटन admitted to having had an `` improper संबंध '' while she worked at the श्वेत House in 1995 and 1996.
the affair और इसके repercussions ( which शामिल Clinton 's impeachment ) became ज्ञात as the Lewinsky scandal.
हाउस of रात्रि is a श्रेणी of पिशाच -themed काल्पनिक novels by American लेखक P. C. Cast और her बेटी kristin डाल.
it फ़ॉलो the adventures of zoey Redbird, a sixteen-year-old लड़की जो रै just become a `` fledgling vampyre '' and is जरूरी to attend the हाउस of रात्रि बोर्डिंग school in तुलसा, ओक्लाहोमा.
the series रै been on the New York Times बेहतरीन विक्रेता list लिये 63 सप्ताह और वहीँ हैं over सात million नक़ल in print in उत्तर अमेरिका alone.
The छठे novel, इम्तिहान, जिससे गई on बिक्री on अक्तूबर 27, 2009 साथ a पहला मुद्रण of a million नक़ल, डाला the यूएसए Today bestseller सूची कि सप्ताह at # 1.
In January, 2010, gezeichnet, a जर्मनी translation of चिह्नित, reached the # 1 spot on the der Spiegel bestseller सूची.
the श्रेणी रै so दूर sold अधिक than टेन लाख books in 39 countries.
burned थी released on अप्रैल 27, 2010, और जैसे इम्तिहान, it entered the यूएसए आज bestseller list कि सप्ताह at # 1.
awakened, released in January, 2011, also entered the list at # 1.
the श्रेणी, जिससे is प्रकाशित by st मार्टिन 's Press is नियोजित to include twelve books.
In 2008, योजनाएँ लिये a फिल्मी अनुकूलन यहूद भी घोषित.
the दसवाँ किताब in the series, Hidden, was released on अक्तूबर 16, 2012.
the second book in the novellas ( which दे backgrounds on supporting characters ), Lenobia 's प्रण, थी released जनवरी 31, 2012.
Book ग्यारह is currently पुकारा नाज़िल, और the casts have घोषित कि two अधिक novellas, Neferet’s अभिशाप, नियोजित to be released फ़रवरी 19, 2013, and a prequel अनोखा परिचय kalona, हैं to be released to coincide साथ the eleventh और बारहवीं किताबे.
in यूनानी mythology, the Trojan युद्ध थी waged विरूद्ध the नगर of ट्रॉय by the Achaeans ( यूनानियों ) after Paris of Troy took Helen इससे उसके husband menelaus किंग of स्पार्टा.
The war is एक of the most महत्वपूर्ण events in यूनानी mythology and रै been narrated through अनेक works of यूनानी साहित्य, most notably through होमर 's Iliad and the ओडिसी.
The Iliad relates a भाग of the पिछला साल of the घेरा of ट्रॉय ; the ओडिसी describes Odysseus 's यात्रा home.
Other parts of the युद्ध are contained in a साईकिल of एपिक कविताएं, जिससे have बच through fragments.
Episodes from the युद्ध provided material लिये यूनानी tragedy और अन्य works of यूनानी साहित्य, and लिये रोमन कवियों सहित वर्जिल और Ovid.
The युद्ध originated from a झगड़ा between the देवियाँ Athena, Hera, और aphrodite, after Eris, the goddess of संघर्ष और अनबन, gave उन्हें a golden apple, sometimes known as the ठहराना of Discord, marked `` for the fairest ''.
Zeus sent the देवियाँ to पेरिस, जो judged that aphrodite, as the `` fairest '', चाहिए प्राप्त the ठहराना.
in exchange, Aphrodite बना Helen, the most beautiful of सब women and बीवी of menelaus, fall in love साथ पेरिस, who took उसके to Troy.
agamemnon, king of Mycenae और the bhai of Helen 's husband Menelaus, led an expedition of Achaean सैनिकों to ट्रॉय and besieged the नगर for टेन सालो क्युकी of Paris ' insult.
बाद the मौतों of अनेक heroes, सहित the achaeans Achilles and अजाक्स, and the ट्रोजन्स Hector और पेरिस, the city fell to the ruse of the Trojan Horse.
The Achaeans slaughtered the Trojans ( मगर लिये some of the महिलाओं और children जिसको वे रखा or बेची as स्लेव ) और desecrated the temples, यूँ earning the देवताओं ' प्रकोप.
few of the achaeans returned सकुशल to their घरों and अनेक संस्थापित colonies in दूर shores.
the Romans later traced their उत्पत्ति to aeneas, one of the ट्रोजन्स, who थी कहा to have led the surviving Trojans to modern-day Italy.
the प्राचीन यूनानियों विचार कि the Trojan युद्ध थी a historical event that था लिया प्लेस in the 13th or 12th सदी bc, और believed that ट्रॉय was located in modern-day तुर्कों निकट the Dardanelles.
By आधुनिक टाइम्स, both the war और the नगर यहूद widely believed to be non-historical.
In 1868, however, the जर्मनी पुरातत्ववेत्ताओं heinrich schliemann मिले Frank calvert, जो कायल schliemann कि ट्रॉय थी at Hissarlik and schliemann took over calvert 's excavations on property belonging to Calvert ; this claim is now स्वीकृत by most scholars.
Whether वहीँ is कोई ऐतिहासिक वास्तविकता behind the trojan युद्ध is an open सवाल.
अनेक scholars मानना कि there is a ऐतिहासिक कोर to the टेल, though this may बस औसत कि the homeric stories are a संलयन of विभिन्न किस्से of sieges और expeditions by माइसीनियाई यूनानियों during the कांस्य आयु.
those जो believe that the कहानियां of the trojan War are निकला इससे a specific ऐतिहासिक विरोध प्रायः date it to the 12th or 11th centuries bc, प्रायः preferring the तिथियाँ दिए by इरैटोस्थनिज़, 1194–1184 bc, जिससे roughly corresponds with पुरातत्व प्रमाण of a catastrophic burning of Troy VIIa.
anarchists have employed निश्चित प्रतीकों लिये their कारण, including most prominently the circle-A और the ब्लैक flag, although anarchists have historically largely अस्वीकृत the importance of symbols to political गति.
Since the पुनरुद्धार of anarchism around the प्रारंभ of the 21st-century संयुक्त with the rise of the anti-globalization movement, अराजकतावादी सांस्कृतिक symbols are widely उपस्थित.
The वृहद palatine canal ( or pterygopalatine canal ) is a ड्योढ़ी in the कपाल कि transmits the greater palatine artery, रग, और तंत्रिका between the pterygopalatine fossa and the मौखिक गुहा.
Surface temperature of अंटार्कटिक in शीत and गर्मियाँ from the European Centre for medium-range Weather forecasts
the जलवायु of अंटार्कटिक is the coldest on the whole of धरती.
Antarctica रै the न्यूनतम naturally occurring temperature कभी recorded on the मैदान on Earth : −89.2 °c ( −128.6 °f ) at वोस्तोक स्टेशन.
It is also अत्यधिक शुष्क ( technically a मरुस्थल ), averaging 166 mm ( 6.5 in ) of वर्षण प्रति साल.
भी so, on most parts of the महाद्वीप the हिम rarely melts and is आखिरकार compressed to become the glacial ice that makes up the ice sheet.
मौसम fronts rarely घुस दूर into the महाद्वीप.
सबसे of अंटार्कटिक has an बर्फ कैप जलवायु ( Köppen ef ) with बहुत ठंडा, generally अत्यधिक शुष्क weather throughout the साल और no माह averaging ऊपर 0 °c ( 32 °f ).
कुछ फ्रिंज coastal क्षेत्रों have a टुण्ड्रा जलवायु ( Köppen ET ) साथ a छोटी गर्मियाँ averaging above freezing, और much higher वर्षण.
Current सिर कोच माइक tomlin, दौरान the 2007 ऋतु
The Pittsburgh स्टीलर्स franchise रै था 16 सिर coaches throughout its history.
संस्थापित as the पिट्सबर्ग pirates in, the नाम was बदला to the स्टीलर्स prior to the season to celebrate the city 's विरासत of producing स्टील.
जो बच served two separate शर्तें as सिर कोच and वॉल्ट kiesling परोसा तीन पृथक terms.
During the and सीज़न, due to the राशि of players who लड़ा in World युद्ध II, the स्टीलर्स संयुक्त उनके team साथ Philadelphia and शिकागो, respectively.
During ये seasons, Steelers ' coach वॉल्ट kiesling shared कोचिंग कर्तव्य with चिकनी neale और Phil हैंडलर, who have नहीं महरूम included भीतर इस list.
struggling लिये much of the मताधिकार 's जल्दी सालो, the टोली 's first season साथ more wins than नुकसान was coached by jock Sutherland in.
In, under Sutherland, the स्टीलर्स निभाई their पहला playoff खेल against the फिलाडेल्फिया Eagles.
टेन of the 16 head कोच खर्च उनके संपूर्ण पेशेवर coaching careers साथ the मताधिकार, including जॉन mcnally, वॉल्ट kiesling और Chuck noll, जो have भी महरूम voted into the प्रो फ़ुटबॉल Hall of Fame.
One of only चार मेन to कोच the same टोली for 23 सालो, चक noll retired in.
noll is भी the तभी कोच in नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग history to win four सुपर प्याले.
विधेयक cowher, noll 's replacement, coached the स्टीलर्स to उनके पांचवां सुपर Bowl victory, in 2005.
the स्टीलर्स छठे सुपर Bowl जीत आए in Super कटोरी xliii, while सिर coached by Mike Tomlin, the टोली 's वर्तमान head coach.
in दण्ड विधि, fraud is जानबूझकर deception made लिये निजी लाभ or to क्षति another individual ; the related adjective is fraudulent, और क्रिया is defraud.
Fraud is a अपराधों और a सिविल law उल्लंघन, though the विशिष्ट criminal law परिभाषा varies by legal क्षेत्राधिकार.
Defrauding लोगों or entities of money or valuables is a आम purpose of धोखाधड़ी.
a hoax also involves deception, but बगैर the intention of लाभ or of damaging or depriving the शिकार.
धोखाधड़ी is a defense in a civil कार्रवाई for उल्लंघन of contract or specific performance of a अनुबंध.
धोखाधड़ी is a आधार लिये equitable क्षेत्राधिकार.
Passover, or pesach ( इससे : in Hebrew, यहूदी ), Tiberian :, Modern यहूदी : /ˈpesaχ/ pesah, Pesakh, Yiddish : Peysekh, paysakh, Paysokh ) is an महत्वपूर्ण Biblically -derived यहूदी festival.
Historically, साथ साथ Shavuot ( `` पेंटेकोस्ट '' ) और sukkot ( `` झोपड़ियों '' ), passover is one of the तीन pilgrimage त्यौहार ( shalosh Regalim ) during जिससे the entire जनसांख्यिकी of the किंगडम of यहूदा made a यात्राएं to the टेम्पल in जेरूसलम.
samaritans स्टिल मेक इस यात्राएं to माउंट gerizim, लकिन तभी मेन participate in पब्लिक इबादत.
passover commences on the 15th of the Hebrew month of Nisan and lasts लिये either सात दिनों ( in इसराईल ) or आठ days ( in the diaspora ).
in judaism, a दिन commences at dusk and lasts जबतक the following dusk, thus the पहला दिन of passover तभी begins बाद संध्या of the 14th of Nisan and ends at संध्या of the 15th day of the month of Nisan.
the rituals unique to the Passover जश्न commence with the Passover Seder जब the 15th of nisan रै begun.
in the Northern गोलार्ध Passover takes प्लेस in spring as the Torah prescribes it : `` in the month of [ the ] वसन्त '' ( בחדש האביב ).
It is एक of the सबसे widely observed यहूदी छुट्टियाँ.
The Jewish लोगों celebrate Passover as a commemoration of उनके liberation over 3,300 सालो पहले by God from गुलामी in प्राचीन मिश्र कि was शासित by the Pharaohs, और their जनम as a स्वदेश अंतर्गत the नेतृत्व of Moses.
it commemorates the स्टोरी of the Exodus as वर्णित in the Hebrew Bible especially in the Book of Exodus, in जिससे the israelites were freed from slavery in मिश्र.
In the कथा of the Exodus, the बाइबल tells कि परमेश्वर helped the Children of Israel एस्केप इससे their slavery in Egypt by inflicting टेन plagues upon the ancient उन्होंने पहले the pharaoh होता रिलीज his israelite स्लेव ; the दसवाँ and worst of the plagues थी the मौत of the मिश्र first-born.
The israelites यहूद instructed to mark the doorposts of उनके घरों साथ the blood of a slaughtered spring मेमने और, upon seeing this, the spirit of the रब knew to pass over the first-born in these homes, hence the name of the holiday.
वहीँ is कुछ बहस over जहाँ the term is दरअसल निकला इससे.
जब the pharaoh freed the israelites, it is said कि वे left in ऐसे a hurry that they could नहीं इंतजार लिये bread dough to rise ( leaven ).
In commemoration, लिये the अवधि of passover no leavened ब्रैड is eaten, लिये जिससे कारण it is called `` the पर्व of the unleavened Bread ''.
यूँ matzo ( चपटा unleavened ब्रैड ) is eaten during passover और it is a प्रतीक of the holiday.
Halley 's धूमकेतु or Comet हैली ( or ), officially designated 1p/halley, is the best-known of the short-period comets और is दृश्य इससे Earth every 75–76 years.
Halley is the तभी short-period धूमकेतु that is clearly visible to the नग्न नजर इससे धरती, और thus the तभी naked-eye comet कि might appear twice in a human आजीवन.
अन्य naked-eye धूमकेतुओं may be उज्जवल और अधिक spectacular, लकिन होगा appear तभी एकबार in हज़ारों of सालो.
Halley 's रिटर्न to the inner सौर प्रणाली have been observed और recorded by खगोलशास्त्रियों चूंकि at least 240 BCE.
साफ रिकॉर्ड of the धूमकेतु 's दिखावे were बना by चाइनीज, babylonian, और मध्यकालीन यूरोपीय chroniclers, लकिन यहूद नहीं पहचाना as reappearances of the वही object at the समय.
The धूमकेतु 's periodicity was first संकल्पित in 1705 by अंग्रेज़ी astronomer edmond Halley, बाद whom it is अभी नामित.
हैली 's धूमकेतु पिछला appeared in the inner सौर प्रणाली in 1986 and will next appear in mid-2061.
During इसके 1986 apparition, हैली became the first comet to be observed in विवरण by spacecraft, providing the पहला observational आंकड़ा on the structure of a comet केंद्रक and the mechanism of कोमा और tail गठन.
ये observations समर्थित a क्रमांक of longstanding hypotheses परिचय धूमकेतु निर्माण, विशेषकर Fred whipple 's `` dirty snowball '' model, जिससे correctly predicted कि Halley होता be रचित of a मिश्रण of volatile ices – ऐसे as जल, carbon डाइऑक्साइड और अमोनिया – and dust.
The missions भी provided data which substantially reformed और reconfigured ये विचार ; लिये instance it is now understood that Halley 's surface is largely composed of dusty, non-volatile सामग्री, and that तभी a small portion of it is icy.
Anti-communism is opposition to communism.
व्यवस्थित anti-communism developed in प्रतिक्रिया to the वृद्धि of साम्यवादी, विशेषकर after the 1917 October क्रान्ति in रूस और reaching वैश्विक dimensions during the ठंडा युद्ध.
Most anti-communists अस्वीकृत the concept of ऐतिहासिक भौतिकवाद, which is a central विचार in मार्क्सवाद.
anti-communists reject the मार्क्सवादी विश्वास कि पूंजीवाद होगा be followed by socialism और communism, बस as सामंतवाद was followed by capitalism.
anti-communists question the validity of the मार्क्सवादी अर्जी कि the socialist राज्य होगा `` wither दूर '' when it becomes unnecessary in a सच्चा कम्युनिस्ट society.
anti-communists argue कि the दमन in the जल्दी सालो of bolshevik नियम, जबकि not as चरम as कि during जोसेफ Stalin 's rule, थी still कठोर by reasonable standards, citing उदाहरण such as फेलिक्स dzerzhinsky 's secret police, which eliminated numerous political प्रतिद्वंद्वियों by extrajudicial executions, and the brutal crushing of the kronstadt विद्रोह और tambov विद्रोह.
Some anti-communists refer to दोनो साम्यवादी और फासीवाद as सर्वसत्तावाद, देखकर similarity between the क्रियाएँ of communist और fascist governments.
Historian रॉबर्ट conquest has argued कि Communism was जिम्मेदार लिये tens of millions of मौतों दौरान the 20th century.
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों argue कि Communist पार्टियों that have आइये to शक्ति have tended to be rigidly असहिष्णु of राजनैतिक opposition.
ये प्रतिद्वंद्वियों claim that सबसे कम्युनिस्ट देशों have shown no लक्षण of advancing इससे मार्क्स 's समाजवादी स्टेज of economy to an ideal communist स्टेज.
बल्कि, कम्युनिस्ट governments have महरूम अभियुक्त of बनाना a new सत्ताधारी क्लास ( a nomenklatura ), साथ शक्तियां and privileges वृहद than those previously enjoyed by the अपर classes in the non- communist regimes.
gil बगुला ( 9 अप्रैल 1922 – 27 नवम्बर 2008 ) थी a Jamaican पेशेवर footballer.
He was the first ब्लैक खिलाड़ी to खेल for Scottish क्लबों सेल्टिक, और थी the पिता of कवि and musician gil Scott-Heron.
He died in डेट्रॉयट of a दिल attack on 27 November 2008.
the सोयाबीन ( us ) or soya bean ( UK ) ( glycine अधिकतम ) is a species of legume native to ईस्ट एशिया, widely grown लिये इसके edible bean जिससे has numerous उपयोग.
The संयंत्र is classed as an oilseed बल्कि than a pulse by the un खाना और agricultural संगठन ( fao ).
Fat-free ( defatted ) soybean भोजन is a significant and cheap सोर्स of प्रोटीन लिये एनिमल फ़ीड्स and many prepackaged meals ; सोया सब्ज़ी oil is another product of processing the सोयाबीन crop.
For उदाहरण, soybean products such as textured सब्ज़ी protein ( tvp ) हैं संघटक in many meat and दुग्ध analogues.
Soybeans उपज significantly अधिक protein प्रति acre than सबसे अन्य uses of land.
परंपरागत nonfermented खाना उपयोग of soybeans शामिल soy milk, और from the latter टोफू और टोफू skin.
fermented भोजन शामिल सोया सॉस, fermented bean paste, natto, और tempeh, among others.
the oil is used in अनेक औद्योगिक अनुप्रयोग.
the प्रमुख निर्माता of सोया are the संयुक्त States ( 35 % ), ब्राज़ील ( 27 % ), अर्जेंटीना ( 19 % ), China ( 6 % ) और इण्डिया ( 4 % ).
The सेम contain significant amounts of phytic acid, alpha-linolenic acid, and isoflavones.
Harrison घाट ( born जुलाई 13, 1942 ) is an अमरीकी फिल्मी actor and producer.
he is प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके performances as हान सोलो in the असली स्टार युद्धों trilogy and the title अक्षर of the Indiana जोन्स film श्रेणी.
घाट is भी ज्ञात for his भूमिकाएँ as Rick deckard in ब्लेड धावक, जॉन किताब in गवाह और जोकर Ryan in patriot खेल और साफ and उपस्थित खतरे.
His करियर has spanned छह दशकों and शामिल भूमिकाएँ in अनेक हॉलीवुड blockbusters, सहित Presumed निर्दोष, the भगोड़े, एयर Force एक, and कया झूठ beneath.
at एक पाइंट, चार of the शीर्ष छह box-office hits of सब time included एक of उसके roles.
Five of his films have महरूम inducted into the नेशनल Film रजिस्ट्री.
in 1997, घाट थी क्रमित No. 1 in साम्राज्य `` The Top 100 फिल्म Stars of All Time '' सूची.
, the संयुक्त राज्य घरेलू बक्सा office grosses of घाट 's films कुल over us $ 3.5 अरब, साथ worldwide grosses surpassing $ 6 billion, making Ford the third उच्चतम grossing U.S. domestic box-office star.
घाट is the husband of actress calista flockhart.
A tube of chapstick
chapstick is a brand नाम लिये लिप बाम manufactured by Pfizer Consumer Healthcare और used in many देशों विश्वव्यापी.
it is intended to help treat and prevent chapped होठ ; hence the name.
Many किस्में भी include सनस्क्रीन in order to prevent sunburn.
due to इसके लोकप्रियता, the term has become a genericized ट्रेडमार्क.
It popularly refers to कोई लिप balm contained in a lipstick-style tube और लागू in the वही manner as lipstick.
however, the term is still a पंजीकृत trademark, साथ rights exclusively स्वामित्व by Pfizer.
In स्वीडन और in the United किंगडम, the उत्पाद 's main प्रतिस्पर्धी is lypsyl, बना by novartis Consumer स्वास्थ्य, जिससे is वितरित in similar पैकेजिंग to chapstick.
जार्ज बर्कली ( ; 12 March 168514 जनवरी 1753 ), also known as बिशप बर्कली ( Bishop of cloyne ), was an Anglo-Irish पारस जिनकी प्राथमिक उपलब्धि थी the advancement of a सिद्धान्त he पुकारा `` immaterialism '' ( later referred to as `` subjective idealism `` by अन्य ).
इस सिद्धान्त झुठलाए the अस्तित्व of सामग्री substance and instead contends that परिचित objects जैसे tables और कुर्सियां are तभी विचार in the minds of perceivers, और as a परिणाम can not मौजूद बगैर होने आभास.
यूँ, as Berkeley famously put it, लिये शारीरिक objects `` esse est percipi '' ( `` to be is to be आभास `` ).
बर्कली is भी ज्ञात for his critique of abstraction, an important आधार in उसके तर्क for immaterialism.
in 1709, बर्कली published उसके first प्रमुख कार्य,, in जिससे he discussed the सीमाएं of human दृष्टि और उन्नत the theory that the proper वस्तुएँ of sight हैं नहीं सामग्री वस्तुएँ, लकिन light और colour.
This foreshadowed his मुख्य philosophical कार्य A treatise concerning the सिद्धान्त of इंसान ज्ञान in 1710 which, बाद its ग़रीब reception, he rewrote in dialogue form and published अंतर्गत the शीर्षक तीन संवाद between hylas and philonous in 1713.
in इस किताब, बर्कली 's दृश्य यहूद represented by Philonous ( Greek : 'प्रेमr of दिमाग ' ), जबकि Hylas ( Greek : 'matter ' ) embodies the आयरिश thinker’s प्रतिद्वंद्वियों, in particular John locke.
Berkeley argued against सर इसहाक़ Newton 's doctrine of absolute space, time और गति in De Motu ( on Motion ), published 1721.
His arguments were a precursor to the views of Mach और Einstein.
in 1732, he प्रकाशित Alciphron, a ईसाई क्षमाप्रार्थी against the free-thinkers, और in 1734, he प्रकाशित the Analyst, an empiricist critique of the foundations of infinitesimal कलन, which was influential in the विकास of गणित.
उसके पिछला प्रमुख philosophical कार्य, siris ( 1744 ), begins by वकालत the औषधीय उपयोग of तारकोल water, and तब continues to discuss a wide range of विषय including science, दर्शनशास्त्र, और theology.
ब्याज in Berkeley 's कार्य increased बाद संसार युद्ध II, because he tackled many of the मुद्दे of paramount ब्याज to दर्शनशास्त्र in the 20th century ऐसे as the समस्याएं of perception, the अंतर between प्राथमिक and secondary qualities, और the महत्व of भाषा.
चिंगदाओ ( ), historically known as Tsingtao, is a प्रमुख city in पूर्वी शानदोंग प्रांत, पूर्वी China, with a जनसांख्यिकी of over 8.715 लाख ( 2010 census ).
Its निर्मित up area, made of 6 urban जिले and 4 county-level cities, is home to परिचय 4,896,000 निवासियों in 2010.
It borders yantai to the पूर्वोत्तर, Weifang to the वेस्ट और Rizhao to the southwest.
qīng ( ) in चाइनीज अर्थात् `` ग्रीन '' or `` lush '', while dǎo ( ) अर्थात् `` द्वीप ''.
Qingdao is administered at the sub-provincial level.
Lying आरपार the शानदोंग प्रायद्वीप जबकि looking आउट to the पीला समुद्र, चिंगदाओ is a प्रमुख seaport, naval base, and औद्योगिक केन्द्र.
it is also the साईट of the tsingtao ब्रेवरी.
The संसार 's longest समुद्र सेतु, the चिंगदाओ Haiwan सेतु, कड़ी the main शहरी area of चिंगदाओ with huangdao district, straddling the jiaozhou खाड़ी sea areas.
Qingdao is नामित China 's सबसे livable नगर.
Mimivirus is a viral genus containing a single पहचाना species named acanthamoeba polyphaga mimivirus ( APMV ), or is a group of phylogenetically related large viruses ( designated प्रायः mimin ).
in colloquial speech, apmv is more commonly referred to as बस `` mimivirus ''.
जबतक अक्तूबर 2011, जब a larger virus megavirus chilensis was वर्णित, it had the largest capsid diameter of all ज्ञात viruses.
Mimivirus रै a large and जटिल genome compared with सबसे अन्य वाइरस.
mimivirus, short for `` mimicking microbe '', is so called to प्रतिबिंबित इसके विशाल आकार और apparent Gram-staining गुण.
The मैक्सिकन युद्ध of Independence ( 1810–1821 ) थी an armed conflict between the लोगों of मैक्सिको और the Spanish औपनिवेशिक अधिकारियों जिससे प्रारंभ on सितंबर 16, 1810.
the movement, which became ज्ञात as the मैक्सिकन War of स्वतंत्रता, was led by mexican-born spaniards, Mestizos और amerindians जो sought independence इससे स्पेन.
it started as an idealistic peasants ' rebellion against उनके colonial मास्टर्स, लकिन ended as an असंभावित गठबंधन between Mexican ex-royalists and Mexican छापामार insurgents.
crohn 's बीमारी, भी ज्ञात as crohn syndrome and क्षेत्रीय enteritis, is a प्रकार of inflammatory bowel disease कि may affect कोई भाग of the जठरांत्र tract इससे मुँह to गुदा, causing a wide variety of लक्षण.
it primarily कल्याणकारी abdominal pain, diarrhea ( जिससे may be bloody if inflammation is at इसके worst ), उल्टी ( can be निरन्तर ), or weight घाटा, लकिन may also cause complications बाहर the gastrointestinal ट्रैक्ट such as skin rashes, गठिया, inflammation of the नजर, थकान, और कमी of concentration.
crohn 's बीमारी is caused by interactions between environmental, immunological और bacterial कारकों in genetically susceptible individuals.
This परिणाम in a chronic inflammatory disorder, in जिससे the body 's प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली attacks the जठरांत्र ट्रैक्ट possibly directed at सूक्ष्मजैविक antigens.
Crohn 's disease रै wrongly महरूम described as an असंक्राम्य disease in the पास्ट ; हाल investigators have वर्णित it as an immune कमियां राज्य.
वहीँ is a जेनेटिक संघ साथ crohn 's disease, primarily साथ विसंगतियाँ of the nod2 जीन and its protein, जिससे senses bacterial कोशिका walls.
Siblings of प्रभावित individuals are at उच्चतर risk.
Males and females हैं बराबर प्रभावित.
smokers हैं दो times अधिक संभावित to develop crohn 's disease than nonsmokers.
Crohn 's disease affects between 400,000 और 600,000 लोगों in North अमेरिका.
व्यापकता estimates for उत्तरी यूरोपीय have ranged from 27–48 प्रति 100,000.
Crohn 's disease tends to उपस्थित initially in the teens and twenties, with another peak incidence in the fifties to seventies, although the disease can occur at any आयु.
वहीँ is no known फार्मास्युटिकल or सर्जिकल इलाज़ लिये crohn 's बीमारी.
उपचार विकल्प are प्रतिबंधित to controlling symptoms, maintaining remission, और preventing पतन.
The बीमारी थी named बाद gastroenterologist burrill Bernard crohn, who, in 1932, साथ with two अन्य सहयोगियों at माउंट sinai हॉस्पिटल in New यॉर्क, described a श्रेणी of मरीजों with inflammation of the terminal ileum, the क्षेत्रफल सबसे commonly प्रभावित by the बीमारी.
इस is an अधूरी सूची of the tallest buildings and structures by country.
the सूची directly शामिल the tallest इमारतें and structures लिये प्रत्येक country, और जहाँ appropriate, it भी points to more detailed country-specific सूचियाँ.
Rough और तैयार is a census-designated place in नेवाडा County, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, United राज्य.
It is स्तिथ west of Grass Valley, California, लगभग 62 मील ( 100 km ) इससे sacramento.
the जनसांख्यिकी was 963 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
YouTube is a video-sharing website, निर्मित by तीन former paypal employees in फ़रवरी 2005, on which उपयोक्ता can upload, view और share videos.
The company is based in सैन ब्रूनो, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, and उपयोग adobe फ्लैश Video and HTML5 technology to display a wide किस्में of user-generated video सामग्री, सहित movie क्लिप्स, tv क्लिप्स, और music वीडियो, as well as amateur सामग्री ऐसे as वीडियो blogging, short original वीडियो, और educational videos.
Most of the सामग्री on YouTube रै महरूम uploaded by individuals, हालांकि मीडिया corporations सहित सीबीएस, the BBC, vevo, Hulu, और अन्य organizations प्रस्ताव some of उनके material via the साईट, as भाग of the youtube partnership कार्यक्रम.
अपंजीकृत उपयोक्ता can watch वीडियो, while registered उपयोक्ता can अपलोड an unlimited number of वीडियो.
वीडियो माना to contain potentially offensive सामग्री हैं उपलब्धियाँ only to पंजीकृत users at तनिक 18 सालो old.
in November 2006, youtube, llc थी खरीदा by Google for US $ 1.65 अरब, और operates as a subsidiary of google.
सिस्टर अधिनियम is a musical written by cheri Steinkellner and Bill steinkellner with अतिरिक्त book सामग्री by Douglas Carter beane, साथ lyrics by Glenn स्लेटर and म्यूज़िक by Alan menken.
it is based on the hit 1992 फिल्मी कॉमेडी of the same नाम.
The 2009 वेस्ट समाप्त उत्पादन थी उत्पादित by स्टेज entertainment, Whoopi Goldberg, and माइकल रेनो for Sis Acts LLC.
गोल्डबर्ग is भी a producer of the 2011 ब्रॉडवे अनुकूलन.
Microsoft डाइरेक्टएक्स is a संग्रहण of अनुप्रयोग प्रोग्रामिंग interfaces ( APIs ) लिये हैंडलिंग tasks सम्बन्धित to multimedia, विशेषकर game प्रोग्रामिंग और वीडियो, on Microsoft platforms.
originally, the names of ये api सब began with सीधा, such as direct3d, DirectDraw, directmusic, DirectPlay, directsound, और so forth.
the name डाइरेक्टएक्स was coined as आशुलिपि पद लिये सब of these APIs ( the x standing in लिये the particular api names ) और जल्द became the name of the संग्रहण.
जब microsoft बाद नियत आउट to develop a गेमिंग कंसोल, the X थी प्रयुक्त as the basis of the name एक्सबॉक्स to indicate कि the console थी based on DirectX प्रौद्योगिकी.
The x आरंभिक has महरूम carried आगे in the नामकरण of api designed for the एक्सबॉक्स such as xinput और the Cross-platform Audio सृष्टि औजार ( XACT ), जबकि the डाइरेक्टएक्स pattern has महरूम जारी लिये खिड़कियाँ api ऐसे as Direct2D और DirectWrite.
Direct3D ( the 3d ग्राफिक्स api within DirectX ) is widely used in the development of वीडियो games for microsoft खिड़कियाँ, Microsoft एक्सबॉक्स, Microsoft Xbox 360 और some sega Dreamcast खेल.
direct3d is भी प्रयुक्त by अन्य तन्त्र applications लिये visualization और ग्राफिक्स tasks such as cad/cam engineering.
as direct3d is the सबसे widely publicized घटक of डाइरेक्टएक्स, it is आम to see the names `` डाइरेक्टएक्स '' and `` direct3d '' प्रयुक्त interchangeably.
the डाइरेक्टएक्स तन्त्र development kit ( SDK ) consists of runtime libraries in redistributable शब्दकोष रूप, साथ साथ accompanying दस्तावेज़ीकरण और headers लिये use in कोडिंग.
originally, the runtimes यहूद only संस्थापित by games or explicitly by the उपयोक्ता.
Windows 95 किया नहीं launch with DirectX, लकिन डाइरेक्टएक्स was शामिल साथ खिड़कियाँ 95 oem सेवा रिलीज 2.
Windows 98 and Windows NT 4.0 दोनो shipped साथ डाइरेक्टएक्स, as रै प्रत्येक संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ released चूंकि.
the SDK is उपलब्धियाँ as a फ़्री download.
While the runtimes हैं proprietary, closed-source तन्त्र, source code is provided लिये सबसे of the sdk samples.
Starting साथ the release of खिड़कियाँ 8 डेवलपर पूर्वावलोकन, डाइरेक्टएक्स SDK रै been integrated into Windows SDK.
direct3d 9Ex, Direct3D 10, और direct3d 11 are तभी available for खिड़कियाँ विस्टा and newer क्युकी each of ये new versions थी निर्मित to निर्भर upon the new खिड़कियाँ Display ड्राइवर Model that थी introduced for Windows विस्टा.
The नई vista/wddm ग्राफिक्स architecture शामिल a नई video मेमोरी मैनेजर supporting आभासीकरण of ग्राफिक्स hardware लिये various applications and सेवाएं like the Desktop खिड़की मैनेजर.
quetzaltenango, भी commonly known by इसके स्वदेशी नाम, Xelajú, or अधिक commonly, xela, is the दूसरी largest city of ग्वाटेमाला.
It is दोनो the पूंजी of quetzaltenango विभाग and the municipal सीट of quetzaltenango नगरपालिका.
it रै an अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी of 224,703.
The population is परिचय 61 % स्वदेशी or amerindian, 34 % Mestizo or ladino and 5 % यूरोपीय.
quetzaltenango is located in a पहाड़ घाटी at an उन्नयन of 2,330 मीटर ( 7,655 ft ) ऊपर समुद्र level at इसके न्यूनतम part.
it may reach ऊपर 2,400 meters भीतर the city.
The नगरपालिका of quetzaltenango consists of an क्षेत्रफल of.
municipalities abutting the नगरपालिका of quetzaltenango include : Salcajá, cantel, almolonga, Zunil, el palmar, Concepción Chiquirichapa, San Mateo, La esperanza, olintepeque, और सैन Andrés xecul.
सब ये municipalities are भाग of the Department of quetzaltenango, मगर San Andrés Xecul जिससे is a भाग of the विभाग of totonicapán.
the एपिक of gilgamesh, an epic कविता इससे Mesopotamia, is amongst the earliest surviving works of literature.
the literary इतिहास of gilgamesh begins साथ पाँच स्वतंत्र Sumerian कविताएं about 'bilgamesh ' ( Sumerian for Gilgamesh ), king of Uruk.
चार of ये were प्रयुक्त as सोर्स सामग्री for a combined एपिक in अक्कादी.
इस पहला संयुक्त epic, ज्ञात as the `` Old babylonian '' version, तिथियाँ to the 18th सदी bc और is titled after इसके incipit, shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ).
Only a few fragments of it have बच.
the later `` Standard Babylonian '' संस्करण तिथियाँ इससे the 13th to the 10th सदियां bc और bears the incipit शा naqba īmuru ( `` he जो देखी the गहन '' ).
fragments of लगभग two तिहाई of this longer, twelve-tablet संस्करण have been बरामद.
कुछ of the बेहतरीन नक़ल यहूद discovered in the पुस्तकालयों ruins of the 7th-century bc assyrian किंग ashurbanipal.
the स्टोरी centers on a friendship between gilgamesh और enkidu.
Enkidu is a wild man निर्मित by the देवताओं as gilgamesh 's equal to distract उसे इससे oppressing the people of uruk.
Together, वे यात्रा to the Cedar पहाड़ to शिकस्त humbaba, इसके monstrous संरक्षक.
बाद वे kill the सांड of Heaven, जिससे the देवी इश्तार sends to सजा gilgamesh for spurning उसके अग्रिम.
as a punishment लिये these क्रियाएँ, the देवताओं वाक्य enkidu to मौत.
the second हाफ of the एपिक focuses on gilgamesh 's distress at enkidu 's मौत, and his quest for अमरत्व.
in अनुक्रम to learn the secret of अनन्त जीवन, gilgamesh undertakes a long और perilous यात्रा.
he learns that `` the जीवन कि तुम हैं seeking you will never find.
जब the देवताओं निर्मित man वे allotted to him death, लकिन जीवन वे retained in उनके अपना keeping. ''
इस quote was originally attributed to siduri in the बूढ़ा Babylonian version of the एपिक, and तब attributed to the अमर बाढ़ hero Utnapishtim in the अक्कादी संस्करण of the एपिक.
nevertheless, gilgamesh 's fame lived on after his मौत, because of his ग्रेट building प्रोजेक्ट, और उसके खाता of कया utnapishtim बताई उसे happened during the बाढ़.
the स्टोरी रै been अनूदित into many different भाषाएं, और gilgamesh रै since become adapted in works of popular fiction.
वहीँ हैं numerous debates over who निर्मित the पहला video खेल, with the जवाब depending largely on कैसा video games are पारिभाषित.
the एवोल्यूशन of वीडियो खेल represents a उलझे वेब of several different industries, including वैज्ञानिक, कंप्यूटर, arcade, and उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स.
the `` video '' in `` video खेल `` traditionally refers to a रास्टर display यंत्र.
With the लोकप्रिय कैच phrase use of the पद `` वीडियो खेल '', the पद अभी implies सब प्रदर्शक types, स्वरुप, and प्लेटफ़ॉर्म.
Historians have also sought to bypass the issue by बजाय using the अधिक विशिष्ट `` डिजिटल खेल '' वर्णनात्मक.
इस पद leaves आउट the पहले analog-based computer games.
इस is a list of best-selling वीडियो game franchises that have sold or shipped at तनिक 5 लाख नक़ल.
Unless वरना stated, संख्याएँ indicate worldwide इकाई बेची, ordered alphabetically whenever two or अधिक सूची the वही amount.
the एक्सेप्शन हैं the ones specifying शिपमेंट, which have निम्नतर पूर्वता than अन्य लिस्टिंग बिक्री.
मताधिकार बिक्री शामिल विस्तार पैक even हालांकि they हैं नहीं माना पूरा video खेल.
लिये best-selling individual वीडियो games, देखिए सूची of best-selling वीडियो खेल.
the sales आंकड़े दिए below do not शामिल आर्केड खेल बिक्री, जिससे can be मिला at List of highest-grossing आर्केड वीडियो खेल.
– इस रंग indicates a sub-series of a larger वीडियो खेल franchise.
This करता नहीं necessarily apply for series कि हैं not video game-based.
डोरोथी Ann Willis Richards ( September 1, 1933 – सितंबर 13, 2006 ) was an अमरीकी politician और the 45th Governor of टेक्सास.
वो पहला आए to national ध्यान as the राज्य treasurer of टेक्सास, जब वो वितरित the keynote पता at the 1988 लोकतांत्रिक National सम्मेलन.
Richards परोसा as the 45th राज्यपाल of Texas इससे 1991 to 1995 and was पराजित लिये re-election in 1994 by George W. Bush.
ऐन रिचर्ड्स थी the दूसरी मादा राज्यपाल of टेक्सास.
आंकड़ा निष्पादन रोकथाम ( dep ) is a security विशेषता शामिल in modern operating प्रणालियों.
It is known to be उपलब्धियाँ in लिनक्स, Mac os x, आईओएस, microsoft खिड़कियाँ और Android ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों और is intended to prevent an application or service इससे निष्पादित कोड from a non-executable मेमोरी प्रदेश.
इस helps prevent निश्चित कारनामे कि स्टोर कोड via a buffer अतिप्रवाह, लिये उदाहरण.
dep रनों in दो modes : hardware-enforced dep for CPUs that can mark मेमोरी पृष्ठों as nonexecutable, and software-enforced dep साथ limited protection for cpu कि do not have hardware support.
software-enforced DEP does नहीं protect विरूद्ध निष्पादन of कोड in आंकड़ा पृष्ठों, but instead counters SEH मिटाकर, another प्रकार of आक्रमण.
dep थी introduced on Linux in 2004 ( कर्नेल 2.6.8 ), on खिड़कियाँ in 2004 साथ खिड़कियाँ xp सेवा पैक 2, जबकि ठहराना introduced dep जब वे moved to x86 in 2006.
Example उदाहरण of two आम futanari विसंगतियाँ
, is the जापानी word for hermaphroditism, जिससे is also used in a broader भाव लिये androgyny.
परे Japan the term is used to describe a commonly pornographic genre of कंप्यूटर games, comics और एनिमेशन, जिससे includes वर्ण कि show both प्राथमिक यौन characteristics.
But in आज 's language it refers almost exclusively for वर्ण who have an overall feminine appearance.
in कि case the पद is भी प्रायः abbreviated as futa ( s ), जिससे is occasionally भी used as पद लिये the works itself.
जल्दी captchas ऐसे as ये, generated by the EZ-Gimpy कार्यक्रम, यहूद प्रयुक्त on याहू !
a आधुनिक CAPTCHA, rather than attempting to बनाएँ a distorted background and high levels of warping on the text, might फ़ोकस on making segmentation मुश्किल by adding an angled line.
another रास्ता to make segmentation difficult is to भीड symbols साथ, as in याहू ! 's current CAPTCHA format.
कुछ CAPTCHAs try to utilize the ability of people to देखिए three-dimensional objects.
On this चित्र, symbols are drawn with लाइनों of different मोटाई to make an प्रभाव of extrusion.
a captcha ( ) is a प्रकार of challenge-response test used in computing as an attempt to ensure कि the जवाब is generated by a इंसान being.
the process usually involves a computer asking a उपयोक्ता to पूरा a simple परीक्षण which the कंप्यूटर is समर्थ to grade.
ये tests हैं designed to be आसान लिये a कंप्यूटर to generate लकिन मुश्किल लिये a कंप्यूटर to solve, लकिन again आसान लिये a human.
If a सही समाधान is received, it can be presumed to have been डाला by a इंसान.
a आम type of captcha requires the उपयोक्ता to प्रकार अक्षर and/or अंक from a distorted image that appears on the screen.
ऐसे परीक्षण are commonly used to prevent अनावश्यक internet बॉट from accessing वेबसाइटों, since a सामान्य human can easily पढ़ा a CAPTCHA, while the bot can not प्रक्रम the चित्र letters and therefore, can नहीं जवाब properly, or at सब.
Although सबसे CAPTCHAs हैं अक्षर तस्वीरें randomly generated, अनेक of them have become मुश्किल भी for a इंसान to पढ़ा, so picture CAPTCHAs यहूद created in जिससे a इंसान is shown a सरल test to दिखाएँ a picture of a निश्चित animal ( दिए few एनिमल pictures ), जिससे is simple for a human होने to process, और therefore easy to चुनें, जबकि a bot can not process और solve the सवाल क्युकी हालांकि it can analyze the चित्र, it can नहीं easily guess the एनिमल.
The पद `` CAPTCHA '' was coined in 2000 by लुइस von ahn, मैनुएल ब्लम, निकोलस J. हॉपर, and जॉन Langford ( all of Carnegie Mellon विश्वविद्यालयों ).
it is an एक्रोनिम आधारित on the शब्द `` capture '' and standing लिये `` completely स्वचालित Public turing परीक्षण to बताना कंप्यूटर and Humans Apart ''.
Carnegie Mellon विश्वविद्यालयों attempted to ट्रेडमार्क the term on 15 अक्तूबर 2004, but the ट्रेडमार्क अनुप्रयोग was abandoned on 21 April 2008.
A captcha is sometimes described as a रिवर्स turing test, क्युकी it is administered by a यंत्र and targeted at a human, in contrast to the standard Turing परीक्षण कि is typically administered by a इंसान और targeted at a यंत्र.
Jacques-Yves cousteau ( ; commonly ज्ञात in अंग्रेज़ी as ज़ाक cousteau ; 11 जून 1910 – 25 जून 1997 ) was a French naval officer, explorer, conservationist, फिल्मकार, innovator, वैज्ञानिक, फ़ोटोग्राफ़र, author और researcher who पढ़ाई the समुद्र and all फ़ॉर्म of life in जल.
he co-developed the Aqua-Lung, pioneered समुद्री conservation और थी a member of the Académie française.
केएफसी ( केंटकी Fried मुर्गा ) is a fast food रेस्तरां chain headquartered in louisville, केंटकी, संयुक्त राज्य, जिससे specializes in fried मुर्गा.
an `` अमरीकी icon '', it is the संसार 's दूसरी largest restaurant कड़ी overall ( as measured by बिक्री ) बाद McDonald 's, with over 18,000 outlets in 120 देशों और territories.
the company is a subsidiary of यम !
Brands, a रेस्तरां company which भी owns Pizza Hut और टैको घंटी.
KFC थी संस्थापित by Harland सैंडर्स, who began selling fried मुर्गा इससे उसके roadside restaurant in कोर्बिन, केंटकी during the ग्रेट अवसाद.
Sanders थी एक of the पहला people to see the potential of the restaurant फ़्रेंचाइज़िंग concept, साथ the पहला `` केंटकी fried मुर्गा '' मताधिकार opening in यूटा in 1952.
The franchise popularized chicken in the तेज़ खाना उद्योग, thereby diversifying the market and चुनौतीपूर्ण the दबदबा of the hamburger.
विपणन खुद as `` कर्नल Sanders '', he became a legendary फिगर of American cultural इतिहास, और his चित्र is still prominently प्रयुक्त in KFC branding.
the company 's रैपिड विस्तार देखी it grow too large लिये सैंडर्स to manage, and in 1964 he बेची the कम्पनी to a group of investors led by John y. भूरा, Jr. और Jack Massey.
केएफसी थी one of the first fast food जंजीरों to expand internationally, खोलने outlets in इंग्लैण्ड, मैक्सिको and प्यूर्टो Rico by the mid-1960s.
throughout the 1970s और 1980s, KFC experienced mixed fortunes domestically, as it went through a series of corporate owners who had छोटी or no अनुभव in the रेस्तरां business.
in the early 1970s, KFC थी sold to the आत्माओं कड़ Heublein, जो were लिया over by the R.J. Reynolds खाना और tobacco संगुटिका, जो बेची the कड़ी to पेप्सिको.
the chain जारी to expand विदेशी however, and in 1987 केएफसी became the पहला पश्चिमी रेस्तरां कड़ी to खोलें in चीन.
The chain रै since विस्तारित rapidly in चीन, और the country is now the कम्पनी 's सबसे profitable मार्केट.
PepsiCo spun बंद इसके restaurants division as tricon वैश्विक रेस्तरां, which बाद बदला इसके नाम to यम !
Brands.
केएफसी primarily बिकता fried मुर्गा टुकड़े और विसंगतियाँ ऐसे as chicken sandwiches और wraps, सलाद और पक्ष dishes such as फ्रेंच फ्राइज़ and coleslaw, desserts and soft drinks, प्रायः supplied by पेप्सिको.
इसके most famous उत्पाद is दबाव fried मुर्गा टुकड़े, seasoned with Sanders ' `` Original रेसिपी '' of 11 herbs और spices.
The सटीक nature of ये ingredients is अनजान, and represents a notable व्यापार secret.
Larger portions of fried मुर्गा are served in a distinctive cardboard `` bucket '', which has become a हस्ताक्षर of the कड़ी since being introduced by वाल Pete हर्मन.
KFC is प्रसिद्ध लिये the slogan `` finger lickin ' good '', which रै since महरूम replaced by `` Nobody does मुर्गा जैसे KFC '' and `` so good ''.
Cnidaria ( साथ a मूक c ) or coelenterata is a phylum containing over 10,000 प्रजाति of पशु मिला exclusively in जलीय and mostly समुद्री environments.
उनके distinguishing feature is cnidocytes, specialized cells that वे उपयोग मुख्यतः लिये capturing शिकार.
Their bodies consist of mesoglea, a non-living jelly-like पदार्थ, sandwiched between दो layers of epithelium कि are ज़्यादातर one cell मोटा.
They have दो मौलिक देह फ़ॉर्म : swimming medusae and स्थानबद्ध polyps, दोनो of जिससे हैं radially सममित साथ mouths surrounded by tentacles that भालू cnidocytes.
Both फ़ॉर्म have a सिंगल orifice और body गुहा कि हैं प्रयुक्त लिये पाचन और श्वसन.
Many cnidarian प्रजाति produce colonies कि हैं सिंगल जीवों composed of medusa-like or polyp-like zooids, or दोनो.
Cnidarians ' क्रियाएँ हैं समन्वित by a decentralized nerve जाल और सरल receptors.
अनेक free-swimming Cubozoa और Scyphozoa possess balance-sensing statocysts, और some have सरल आँखें.
Not सब cnidarians reproduce sexually.
Many have जटिल lifecycles साथ अलैंगिक polyp चरण and यौन medusae, but कुछ omit either the polyp or the medusa stage.
cnidarians यहूद for a long time grouped साथ ctenophores in the phylum coelenterata, लकिन increasing जागरूकता of उनके मतभेद caused उन्हें to be लगाई in separate phyla.
cnidarians हैं वर्गीकृत into चार प्रमुख groups : the almost wholly स्थानबद्ध Anthozoa ( समुद्र anemones, corals, sea पेन ) ; swimming scyphozoa ( जेलीफ़िश ) ; cubozoa ( बक्सा jellies ) ; और Hydrozoa, a diverse समूह कि शामिल all the freshwater cnidarians as well as many marine forms, और रै दोनो sessile सदस्यों such as Hydra और औपनिवेशिक swimmers such as the Portuguese Man o ' युद्ध.
Staurozoa have recently महरूम recognised as a क्लास in उनके अपना सही बल्कि than a sub-group of scyphozoa, and there is debate परिचय whether myxozoa और polypodiozoa हैं cnidarians or closer to bilaterians ( more जटिल पशु ).
सबसे cnidarians शिकार on जीवों ranging in size इससे प्लवक to पशु several times larger than themselves, लकिन अनेक obtain much of उनके पोषण इससे endosymbiotic algae, और a few are परजीवी.
Many are preyed upon by अन्य animals सहित starfish, sea slugs, मछली and turtles.
मूँगा reefs, whose polyps हैं समृद्ध in endosymbiotic शैवाल, support कुछ of the world 's सबसे productive ecosystems, and protect vegetation in tidal zones और on shorelines इससे दमदार currents और tides.
While corals हैं लगभग entirely प्रतिबंधित to warm, उथले समुद्री waters, अन्य cnidarians सजीव in the गहराइयों, in polar समंदर and in freshwater.
चट्टान cnidarians have been मिला in रॉक्स formed परिचय, और other जीवाश्मों दिखाएँ कि corals may have महरूम उपस्थित shortly before और diversified a few million years later.
Fossils of cnidarians that do not निर्माण mineralized structures are बहुत विरल.
वैज्ञानिकों currently सोचो कि cnidarians, ctenophores and bilaterians हैं अधिक closely सम्बन्धित to calcareous sponges than these हैं to other sponges, और कि anthozoans are the evolutionary `` aunts '' or `` बहनों '' of अन्य cnidarians, और the most closely सम्बन्धित to bilaterians.
हाल analyses have concluded कि cnidarians, although considered अधिक `` primitive '' than bilaterians, have a wider range of जीनों.
the एज़टेक Pyramid at st. cecilia Acatitlan, मैक्सिको State.
एज़टेक jade मुखौटा depicting the परमेश्वर xipe Totec.
विशाल सिरेमिक प्रतिमा of an एज़टेक Eagle योद्धा
Aztec cosmogram in the pre-Hispanic codex fejérváry-mayer - the आग परमेश्वर xiuhtecuhtli is in the center.
the एज़टेक लोगों were निश्चित ethnic समूह of central Mexico, विशेषकर those groups जो spoke the नावातल language और जो वर्चस्व विशाल भाग of मेसोअमेरिका इससे the 14th to 16th सदियां.
the Nahuatl शब्द aztecatl ( एकवचन ) and aztecah ( बहुवचन ) औसत `` people इससे aztlan ``, a पौराणिक प्लेस लिये the Nahuatl-speaking संस्कृति of the time, and later adopted as the शब्द to define the Mexica लोगों.
प्रायः the पद `` एज़टेक '' refers exclusively to the mexica लोगों of Tenochtitlan ( now the स्थान of मैक्सिको City ), situated on an द्वीप in झील Texcoco, जो referred to themselves as mexica tenochca or Cōlhuah Mexica.
sometimes the term भी शामिल the inhabitants of Tenochtitlan 's two principal अलाइड city-states, the acolhuas of texcoco और the Tepanecs of tlacopan, जो together with the mexica formed the Aztec ट्रिपल Alliance जिससे controlled कया is प्रायः ज्ञात as `` the एज़टेक साम्राज्य ''.
in अन्य contexts, Aztec may refer to all the various नगर states और उनके peoples, जो shared विशाल भाग of उनके ethnic इतिहास और सांस्कृतिक traits with the mexica, Acolhua और tepanecs, और जो प्रायः भी used the नावातल भाषा as a lingua फ़्रांका.
in इस अर्थ it is संभावित to बात about an एज़टेक सभ्यता सहित सब the particular सांस्कृतिक patterns आम लिये सबसे of the peoples inhabiting सेंट्रल Mexico in the late postclassic period.
इससे the 13th सदी, the Valley of मैक्सिको थी the दिल of एज़टेक civilization : यहाँ the पूंजी of the Aztec Triple गठबंधन, the नगर of Tenochtitlan, was built upon उठाया आइलेट in झील texcoco.
the ट्रिपल गठबंधन formed a उपनदी साम्राज्य expanding its राजनैतिक आधिपत्य दूर परे the घाटी of मैक्सिको, conquering अन्य नगर states throughout मेसोअमेरिका.
at its शिखर, Aztec culture had समृद्ध और complex पौराणिक और धार्मिक traditions, as खूब as reaching उल्लेखनीय architectural and artistic accomplishments.
in 1521 hernán Cortés, साथ साथ a विशाल क्रमांक of नावातल speaking indigenous allies, conquered tenochtitlan और पराजित the एज़टेक Triple गठबंधन under the leadership of hueyi Tlatoani Moctezuma II.
subsequently the स्पेनी संस्थापित the new settlement of Mexico नगर on the site of the ruined एज़टेक पूंजी, इससे where वे proceeded साथ the प्रक्रम of colonizing सेंट्रल America.
Aztec संस्कृति and इतिहास is primarily ज्ञात through archaeological प्रमाण found in excavations ऐसे as कि of the renowned Templo Mayor in मैक्सिको City ; इससे स्वदेशी छाल पेपर codices ; from eyewitness accounts by Spanish conquistadors such as hernán cortés and Bernal Díaz डेल कैस्टिलो ; और विशेषकर इससे 16th और 17th सदी descriptions of Aztec culture और इतिहास written by Spanish clergymen and साक्षर aztecs in the Spanish or नावातल language, ऐसे as the प्रसिद्ध Florentine codex compiled by the franciscan भिक्षु bernardino de sahagún with the सहायता of स्वदेशी Aztec informants.
एंडरसन Hays कूपर ( born जून 3, 1967 ) is an अमरीकी journalist, लेखक, और टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व.
he is the प्राथमिक anchor of the CNN न्यूज show Anderson कूपर 360°.
The कार्यक्रम is normally broadcast live इससे a नई York नगर studio ; however, कूपर often प्रसारण live on स्थान लिये breaking न्यूज कहानियां.
as of September 2011, he भी serves as host of उसके own eponymous syndicated दिन बात show, एंडरसन Live, which will be cancelled at the end of the दूसरी season.
a प्लाट of a normal वितरण ( or bell-shaped curve ) where each band रै a width of 1 मानक विचलन – देखिए also : 68-95-99.7 नियम
Cumulative probability of a सामान्य वितरण with अपेक्षित value 0 and standard deviation 1.
in आंकडे and संभाव्यता सिद्धान्त, मानक विचलन ( represented by the प्रतीक सिग्मा, σ ) shows how much विभिन्नता or dispersion exists इससे the औसत ( mean ), or अपेक्षित मान.
A low standard विचलन indicates कि the आंकड़ा अंक tend to be very बंद to the mean ; high standard deviation indicates कि the आंकड़ा अंक are स्प्रेड out over a विशाल दायरा of values.
the मानक विचलन of a यादृच्छिक परिवर्तनीय, सांख्यिकीय जनसांख्यिकी, आंकड़ा set, or probability distribution is the वर्गाकार root of इसके variance.
it is algebraically simpler though practically कम robust than the औसत absolute deviation.
a useful प्रॉपर्टी of मानक deviation is कि, unlike variance, it is expressed in the वही इकाई as the data.
नोट, however, that लिये माप with percentage as ईकाई, the मानक विचलन होगा have percentage अंक as ईकाई.
In जोड to expressing the variability of a जनसांख्यिकी, standard विचलन is commonly प्रयुक्त to measure विश्वास in सांख्यिकीय conclusions.
For example, the margin of गलती in polling data is determined by calculating the अपेक्षित मानक विचलन in the परिणाम if the same poll यहूद to be conducted अनेक टाइम्स.
the reported हाशिया of गलती is typically परिचय twice the standard deviation ­– the radius of a 95 percent विश्वास अंतराल.
In science, researchers commonly रपट the standard deviation of experimental data, और तभी प्रभाव that fall दूर outside the range of standard deviation हैं considered statistically significant – normal यादृच्छिक गलती or विभिन्नता in the माप is in इस रास्ता distinguished इससे causal विभिन्नता.
मानक deviation is भी important in finance, where the standard deviation on the rate of return on an investment is a माप of the volatility of the निवेश.
When तभी a sample of आंकड़ा इससे a जनसांख्यिकी is available, the मानक deviation of the population can be estimated by a परिवर्धित quantity called the `` नमूना standard विचलन ''.
जब the नमूना is the entire population, इसके unmodified मानक विचलन is पुकारा the `` जनसांख्यिकी मानक विचलन ''.
ulluco ( u : ju : kɔ : ) ( Ullucus tuberosus ) is a संयंत्र grown primarily as a root सब्ज़ी, secondarily as a पत्ता सब्ज़ी.
the ulluco is एक of the most widely grown और economically important रूट फसलों in the Andean प्रदेश of South अमेरिका, दूसरी only to the आलू.
it is known there साथ the common नाम of papa lisa, लकिन also by the क्षेत्रीय names melloco ( इक्वाडोर ), olluco ( Peru ), chugua ( Colombia ) or ruba ( Venezuela ), among others.
the पत्ता और the tuber हैं खाद्य, समान to spinach और the potato, क्रमशः.
वे हैं ज्ञात to contain ऊँची levels of प्रोटीन, कैल्सियम, and carotene.
papalisa यहूद used by the Incas prior to arrival of europeans in दक्षिण America.
ulluco tubers are marketed as `` धरती Gems '' in नई जीलैंड, by Halfords Exotic Produce.
ulluco tubers in नई जीलैंड
an अप्रैल 24, 1851 poster चेतावनी the `` रंगीन लोगों of बोस्टन '' परिचय पुलिसकर्मियों एक्टिंग as स्लेव catchers.
The भगोड़े Slave विधि or भगोड़े स्लेव Act was passed by the United राज्य कॉंग्रेस on September 18, 1850, as part of the सुलह of 1850 between Southern slave-holding रूचि and Northern Free-Soilers.
This was एक of the most controversial acts of the 1850 सुलह और heightened Northern fears of a `` slave शक्ति षड्यंत्र ''.
it declared कि सब runaway slaves यहूद, upon capture, to be returned to उनके मास्टर्स.
abolitionists nicknamed it the `` Bloodhound विधि '' लिये the dogs that यहूद used to track bas runaway स्लेव.
Frank Joseph Pallone, jr. ( born October 30, 1951 ) is the u.S. प्रतिनिधि लिये, सेवारत चूंकि 1993.
he is a सदस्य of the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी.
he previously represented the 3rd ज़िला इससे 1988 to 1993.
Trin-i-tee 5:7 is a gospel duo इससे नई ऑरलियन्स, louisiana in the United राज्य.
the group was marketed as a gospel वैकल्पिक to r & b लड़की groups such as नियति 's Child और TLC.
trin-i-tee 5:7 रै sold over 2.5 million albums.
in 1998, the समूह released their पहला एल्बम हकदार Trin-i-tee 5:7 जिससे डेब्यू at # 1 on the शीर्ष Gospel charts.
The एल्बम प्रदर्शित the songs `` God 's Grace '' और the cover सोंग `` Oh !
मरियम do n't You Weep ''.
the एल्बम later became certified gold.
In 1999, Terri भूरा बाएँ the group and थी later replaced by सिंगर एड्रियन Anderson.
दौरान कि year, the group अंकित और released उनके दूसरी एल्बम, Spiritual प्रेम.
the album became the group 's दूसरी # 1 album on the शीर्ष इन्जील charts.
the एल्बम contained the singles `` put Your हैंड्स '' और `` My Body ''.
In 2002, the समूह released उनके तीसरा एल्बम The Kiss जिससे debuted at # 2 on the शीर्ष इन्जील चार्ट.
in 2007, the समूह बाएँ gospocentric रिकॉर्ड and signed a रिकार्ड सौदे with Spirit Rising Music.
in लेट 2007, trin-i-tee 5:7 released उनके पांचवां एल्बम T57, जिससे प्रदर्शित the शीर्ष टेन इन्जील सिंगल `` सुनो ''.
T57 charted # 2 on the Top इन्जील Albums, # 5 on the Top Christian charts, and # 12 on the शीर्ष R & b चार्ट.
the United States federal अर्जित income कर क्रेडिट or अर्जित आय credit ( EITC or eic ) is a refundable कर credit लिये low- और medium-income individuals and couples, primarily लिये those जो have qualifying children.
जब the क्रेडिट exceeds the राशि of कर owed, it results in a कर refund to those जो अर्जी the क्रेडिट.
इस क्रेडिट is provided to offset the बोझ of social सुरक्षा कर और also to प्रचार an प्रोत्साहन to कार्य.
In अनुक्रम लिये a व्यक्ति or युगल to अर्जी one or अधिक व्यक्तियों as उनके qualifying चाइल्ड ( ren ), the आयु, संबंध, and साझा residency आवश्यकताएँ जरूर be मिले, as खूब as some other requirements.
U.S. कर फ़ॉर्म 1040ez, 1040A, or 1040 can be प्रयुक्त to claim eic without qualifying children.
to claim the क्रेडिट साथ qualifying children, 1040A or 1040 जरूर be प्रयुक्त, as खूब as attaching Schedule eic.
eic phases in slowly, रै a medium-length plateau, and तब phases out अधिक slowly than it phased in.
चूंकि the क्रेडिट phases आउट at 21 % ( for two children and लिये तीन or अधिक qualilfying children ) or 16 % ( लिये one qualifying चाइल्ड ), it is सदा preferable to have एक अधिक डालर of actual सैलरी or मजदूरी ( हालांकि technically, चूंकि the EIC तालिका चालें by fifty dollar increments, it 's सदा अस्तबलों to have an extra fifty-dollar वृद्धि of सैलरी or मजदूरी ).
लिये tax साल 2011, the maximum EIC for a सिंगल व्यक्ति or युगल दाखिल without qualifying children was $ 464.
the अधिकतम eic साथ one qualifying चाइल्ड थी $ 3,094, साथ दो children was $ 5,112, और साथ तीन or अधिक qualifying children थी $ 5,751.
ये amounts हैं indexed annually लिये महंगाई.
the अर्जित income कर क्रेडिट रै been भाग of राजनैतिक debates in the संयुक्त राज्य regarding whether raising the न्यूनतम मजदूरी or increasing eic will बेहतर पता a seeming shortage of good-paying jobs.
The following is a सूची of halftime shows held at the National फ़ुटबॉल लीग 's championship game, the सुपर कटोरी.
While halftime shows हैं a tradition during football games at सब स्तर of प्रतियोगिता, the सुपर कटोरी halftime दिखाएँ represents a आधारभूत कड़ी to पॉप संस्कृति, which helps broaden the टेलीविज़न दर्शक और देशभर ब्याज.
in सबसे सालो चूंकि the mid-1980s, the मध्यांतर दिखाएँ of the Super कटोरी has featured लोकप्रिय recording artists और अन्य well-known celebrities.
It has measurably increased television viewers दौरान and after the मध्यांतर show.
The performance is regarded एक of the most-watched events in अमरीकी टेलीविज़न annually साथ over 100 लाख दर्शक in the संयुक्त राज्य अलोन.
musical जाति over the years have represented a व्यापक दायरा of म्यूज़िक प्रकार, including पॉप, चट्टान, classic चट्टान, देश, हिप hop, रैप, ब्लूज़, and soul.
in कुछ सालो, छोटी skits or नाटक scenes हैं acted out on a स्टेज.
The प्रदर्शन समूह Up साथ People रै performed at the most सुपर Bowl मध्यांतर shows, अभिनीत in चार दौरान the 1970s and 1980s.
According to Nielsen दरजा, Super Bowl xlvi मध्यांतर show headlined by Madonna in 2012 remains the most-watched मध्यांतर दिखाएँ in history, with 114 million viewers or परिचय 3 million more than the actual खेल.
beyonce 's 2013 मध्यांतर दिखाएँ performance थी the दूसरी सबसे viewed show in इतिहास.
it is सूचीबद्ध on the गिनीज World Records as the largest tv दर्शक लिये a सुपर कटोरी half-time प्रदर्शन.
अंतरराष्ट्रीय मेन 's दिन ( imd ) is an सालाना अंतरराष्ट्रीय event मनाये on 19th नवम्बर.
Inaugurated in 1999 in Trinidad and टोबैगो, the दिन और इसके events ढूँढें support from a किस्में of individuals and groups in Australia, the Caribbean, North America, एशिया, यूरोपीय और अफ़्रीकी.
Speaking on निमित्त of UNESCO, निदेशक of महिलाओं और संस्कृति of सलाम ingeborg breines कहा of imd, `` इस is an excellent विचार और होता give some लिंग संतुलन. ''
वो added कि UNESCO थी looking आगे to cooperating with the आयोजकों.
The उद्देश्य of celebrating an अंतरराष्ट्रीय मेन 's दिन शामिल focusing on मेन 's और लड़कों ' health, improving gender संबंध, promoting gender समता, और highlighting धनात्मक male भूमिका models.
it is an अवसर to highlight discrimination against men और boys और to celebrate their उपलब्धियाँ and contributions, in particular लिये उनके contributions to community, परिवार, विवाह, और child परवाह.
The broader और ultimate उद्देश्य of the event is to प्रचार मौलिक humanitarian values.
International मेन 's Day is मनाये in over 60 देशों, सहित त्रिनिदाद and टोबैगो, Jamaica, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, इण्डिया, चीन, संयुक्त राज्य, रोमानिया, Singapore, माल्टा, संयुक्त Kingdom, दक्षिण Africa, तंजानिया, Zimbabwe, Botswana, australia, Burundi, हंगेरियाई, Ireland, आइल of man, घाना, Canada, Denmark, नार्वे, Austria, बोस्निया और हर्ज़ेगोविना, युक्त, फ़्रांस, इटली, Pakistan, Cuba, Antigua and बारबूडा, st. किट्स and Nevis, st. Lucia, हरा और केमन Islands, on 19 नवम्बर, और global support लिये the जश्न is broad.
Valley Village parkvalley
Village is a ज़िला in the सैन फर्नांडो घाटी प्रदेश of लॉस Angeles, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
the मध्य आयु of its population, at 36, is `` बूढ़ा for the नगर of लॉस एंजिल्स. '' और इसके average household आकार of दो people is कम, compared to अन्य भाग of the city.
developmental मनोविज्ञान is the scientific पढ़ाई of परिवर्तन कि occur in इंसान beings over the course of उनके जीवन स्पैन.
Originally concerned with infants और children, the फ़ील्ड रै विस्तारित to शामिल adolescence, वयस्क development, aging, और the entire life स्पैन.
इस field examines बदलें आरपार a व्यापक दायरा of विषय सहित मोटर कौशल और अन्य psycho-physiological प्रक्रियाओं ; संज्ञानात्मक development involving क्षेत्रों ऐसे as प्रॉब्लम solving, moral समझना, और conceptual understanding ; language अधिग्रहण ; सोशल, व्यक्तित्व, और emotional development ; and self-concept और पहचान गठन.
Developmental psychology शामिल issues ऐसे as the extent to which विकास occurs through the gradual accumulation of knowledge versus stage-like विकास, or the extent to which children are born with स्वाभाविक mental structures versus सीखना through अनुभव.
Many researchers हैं interested in the interaction between निजी characteristics, the व्यक्तिगत 's behavior, और पर्यावरणीय कारकों सहित सोशल कॉन्टेक्स्ट, और their प्रभाव on विकास ; others लो a more narrowly-focused दृष्टिकोण.
developmental मनोविज्ञान informs अनेक applied fields, including : educational मनोविज्ञान, child psychopathology, and forensic developmental psychology.
developmental psychology complements अनेक अन्य मौलिक research fields in psychology सहित सोशल psychology, संज्ञानात्मक मनोविज्ञान, ecological मनोविज्ञान, और तुलनात्मक मनोविज्ञान.
जोसेफ Michael `` Joey '' Stivic is a fictional अक्षर who पहला appeared on the 1970s American sitcom All in the परिवार.
Joey stivic थी the son और तभी चाइल्ड of माइक Stivic ( निभाई by रोब reiner ) और ग्लोरिया Stivic ( निभाई by Sally struthers ), और the grandson of Archie Bunker ( कैरल o'connor ) और एडिथ बंकर ( Jean Stapleton ).
the अक्षर पहला appeared as a newborn baby in a two-part episode of सब in the Family जिससे aired in December 1975.
बाद many दिखावे on सब in the परिवार until reiner और struthers बाएँ the श्रेणी in 1978 ( by कि समय, जॉय था महरूम played most प्रायः by प्रत्यावर्ती जुड़वा जेसन and जस्टिन draeger ), the जॉय stivic अक्षर next appeared on the All in the परिवार spin-off series ( some कॉल it a continuation of the असली ) आर्ची बंकर 's प्लेस in a guest रूप in the November 1979 एपीसोड `` Thanksgiving Reunion. ''
In इस instance, the अक्षर थी निभाई by child कर्ता Dick Billingsley और थी appropriately pre-school आयु.
साथ ग्लोरिया now अलग from Mike, वो returned to Archie बंकर 's Place साथ जॉय in the फ़रवरी 1982 episode `` ग्लोरिया Comes घर. ''
In this एपीसोड, जॉय was निभाई by क्रिस्टोफर johnston.
Joey Stivic was a regular character on the All in the Family spin-off series Gloria in 1982 और 1983.
on this श्रेणी, in जिससे the now-divorced ग्लोरिया बंकर अक्षर था moved to upstate नई यॉर्क in अनुक्रम to work as an सहायक veterinarian, the part of Joey stivic थी निभाई by ten-year-old actor ईसाई jacobs.
बाद ग्लोरिया was canceled in 1983, Joey stivic disappeared इससे prime time टेलीविज़न लिये 11 सालो, until the अक्षर बना one पिछला रूप on 704 hauser, a short-lived 1994 श्रेणी परिचय a black परिवार जो had moved into the बूढ़ा बंकर घर, सालो बाद बंकर had sold it.
In इस appearance, the Joey stivic अक्षर थी निभाई by केसी siemaszko, an कर्ता born in 1961 ( 14 सालो पहले जॉय stivic 's fictional birth ).
in 1976 the आदर्श Toy कम्पनी released a 14-inch `` Joey Stivic doll '' ( पुकारा `` आर्ची बंकर 's पोता '' ) जिससे was billed as the `` पहला anatomically सही पुरूष गुड़िया. ''
the गुड़िया inspired mild controversy at the time, and is a collectors ' मद today.
The 2011 Rose कटोरी was the 97th edition of the सालाना कटोरी खेल निभाई on January 1, 2011, as part of the 2010 कॉलेज football season.
निभाई in pasadena, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, the tcu Horned Frogs of the पहाड़ West सम्मेलन पराजित the Wisconsin Badgers of the बिग Ten सम्मेलन by a स्कोर of 21 – 19.
the pasadena Tournament of Roses संघ थी the organizer of the खेल.
Vizio inc. was the कॉरपोरेट प्रायोजक and the game was officially named `` the Rose कटोरी खेल प्रस्तुत by Vizio ''.
इस खेल marked the पहला समय a टोली from a non-automatic Qualifying Conference played in, और जीती, the Rose कटोरी in इसके 97 सालो.
the प्रतियोगिता was broadcast on केबल टेलीविज़न स्टेशन ईएसपीएन with a रेडियो ब्रॉडकास्ट on ESPN रेडियो और XM उपग्रह रेडियो और espn3 स्ट्रीमिंग वीडियो over the internet.
कवरेज began at 1:30 pm ( pst ) साथ kickoff at 2:10 pm ( PST ).
This चिह्नित the पहला समय कि the game थी नहीं ब्रॉडकास्ट nationally `` over-the-air '' ( terrestrial टेलीविज़न ) चूंकि the games prior to the 1952 रोज़ कटोरी, जिससे थी the पहला nationally televised college फ़ुटबॉल game.
the Rose Bowl खेल, प्रसंग भवन सपनो, friendships, & Memories, was a contractual sell-out, साथ 64,500 tickets allocated to the participating टीमों and conferences.
टिकट कीमतें लिये all सीटे in the Rose कटोरी हैं listed at $ 145.
the बाकी टिकटें went to the टूर्नामेंट of Roses सदस्यों, प्रायोजकों, City of pasadena निवासियों, और the general public.
The रोज़ Bowl stadium capacity is listed at approximately 91,000.
The Declaration of Independence is a statement adopted by the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस on जुलाई 4, 1776, जिससे announced कि the तेरह अमरीकी colonies, then at युद्ध साथ ग्रेट Britain, regarded themselves as स्वतंत्र states, और no longer a part of the British साम्राज्य.
बजाय वे now formed a new nation—the संयुक्त States of अमेरिका.
जॉन Adams was a नेता in pushing for स्वतंत्रता, which was unanimously स्वीकृत on जुलाई 2.
a कमेटी था already drafted the formal घोषणा, to be तैयार जब कॉंग्रेस voted on स्वतंत्रता.
एडम्स persuaded the committee to select थामस जेफरसन to लिखें the असली ड्राफ्ट of the दस्तावेज़, जिससे congress होता संपादन to उपज the फाइनल संस्करण.
the Declaration थी ultimately a औपचारिक explanation of क्यों कॉंग्रेस था voted on जुलाई 2 to declare independence from ग्रेट Britain, अधिक than a year बाद the outbreak of the American क्रांतिकारी War.
The national birthday, the स्वतंत्रता दिन is मनाये on जुलाई 4, हालांकि एडम्स wanted जुलाई 2.
After ratifying the टेक्स्ट on जुलाई 4, कॉंग्रेस जारी the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता in अनेक forms.
it थी initially published as the printed डनलप broadside कि थी widely वितरित और पढ़ा to the पब्लिक.
The सबसे famous संस्करण of the घोषणा, a signed नक़ल that is popularly regarded as the Declaration of स्वतंत्रता, is displayed at the नेशनल Archives in Washington, D.C.
हालांकि the wording of the घोषणा थी approved on जुलाई 4, the date of इसके signing was August 2.
the original July 4 United राज्य Declaration of Independence पाण्डुलिपि थी lost while सब अन्य copies have been derived इससे this original दस्तावेज़.
the स्त्रोत and interpretation of the घोषणा have been the subject of much scholarly inquiry.
The घोषणा जायज the independence of the United राज्य by listing colonial grievances विरूद्ध King George iii, and by asserting निश्चित प्राकृतिक और विधिक अधिकारों, सहित a सही of revolution.
having परोसा its असली purpose in announcing स्वतंत्रता, the टेक्स्ट of the घोषणा थी initially ignored बाद the अमरीकी क्रान्ति.
Since तब, it रै आइये to be माना a प्रमुख बयान on इंसान rights, particularly इसके second sentence:
We थाम ये truths to be self-evident, कि सब मेन हैं निर्मित equal, कि they हैं endowed by their Creator with निश्चित unalienable Rights, कि among ये are जीवन, स्वतंत्रता and the pursuit of Happiness.
इस has महरूम called `` एक of the best-known वाक्य in the English भाषा '', containing `` the सबसे potent और consequential शब्द in American history. ''
the ड्योढ़ी came to represent a moral मानक to which the United राज्य should strive.
इस view was notably प्रचारित by अब्राहम Lincoln, जो माना the Declaration to be the foundation of उसके राजनैतिक दर्शनशास्त्र, and argued that the Declaration is a बयान of principles through which the United States Constitution चाहिए be interpreted.
It रै प्रेरित work लिये the अधिकारों of अधिकारहीन people throughout the संसार.
chitty chitty बंग बंग is a 1968 अंग्रेजों musical फिल्मी loosely based on Ian फ्लेमिंग 's novel.
the फिल्मी 's स्क्रिप्ट is by Roald Dahl और केन Hughes और इसके गीतों by the Sherman भाइयो.
it सितारों Dick वैन Dyke as Caractacus potts and Sally Ann Howes as Truly Scrumptious.
the फिल्मी थी निर्देशित by Ken Hughes और उत्पादित by अल्बर्ट R. Broccoli ( co-producer of the जेम्स बंध श्रेणी of films, भी based on फ्लेमिंग 's novels ).
जॉन stears supervised the खास प्रभाव.
इरविन kostal पर्यवेक्षित and conducted the म्यूज़िक, जबकि the musical numbers were staged by मार्क breaux और dee dee Wood.
a region is arid when it is characterized by a कठोर कमी of available जल, to the extent of hindering or preventing the विकास and विकास of संयंत्र and एनिमल life.
Environments विषय to arid climates tend to lack वनस्पति and are called xeric or desertic.
सबसे `` arid '' climates घेर the equator ; these स्थान include सबसे of अफ़्रीकी और भाग of दक्षिण America और Central अमेरिका.
कर्कट ( ♋ ) is an astrological चिह्न, जिससे is संबद्ध with the नक्षत्र कर्कट.
It spans the 90-120th degree of the zodiac, between 90 और 125.25 उपाधि of celestial longitude, जिससे the सूर्य transits this area on औसत between June 22 to July 22 प्रत्येक साल.
और अंतर्गत the sidereal zodiac, it is फिलहाल इससे जुलाई 21 to अगस्त 9.
the संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्षीय चुनाव of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय election, आयोजित on मंगलवार, नवम्बर 8, 1960.
the Republican पार्टी nominated लाज़िम vice-president रिचर्ड Nixon, जबकि the Democratic Party nominated जॉन F. कैनेडी, सीनेटर इससे Massachusetts.
the incumbent President, रिपब्लिकन ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर, थी not योग्य लिये re-election after सेवारत the maximum दो शर्तें अनुमत by the Twenty-second amendment.
Kennedy थी निर्वाचित साथ a सीसे of 112,827 मत, or 0.17 % of the लोकप्रिय vote, giving him a victory of 303 to 219 in the Electoral कॉलेज, the closest चूंकि 1916.
This was the पहला election in which all पचास of the वर्तमान संयुक्त राज्य participated.
a number of factors explain क्यों the election थी so close.
कैनेडी gained चूंकि वहीँ थी an economic मंदी which hurt the incumbent Republican, और he था the लाभ of 17 लाख अधिक registered डेमोक्रेट than republicans.
furthermore, the new मत कि Kennedy gained among Catholics almost neutralized the नई votes निक्सन gained among Protestants.
Kennedy 's campaigning कौशल decisively outmatched निक्सन 's.
In the समाप्त, निक्सन 's emphasis on उसके अनुभव carried छोटी weight, and he wasted energy by campaigning in सब 50 राज्य बजाय of concentrating on the झूले राज्य.
Kennedy प्रयुक्त उसके large, well-funded अभियान संगठन to win the नामांकन, सुरक्षित endorsements, and, with the सहायता of the last of the big-city bosses, to मिलेंगी out the vote in the big cities.
He relied on running mate Lyndon B. जॉनसन to थाम the South and प्रयुक्त television effectively.
इस election is notable as being the first समय in u.S. history that दो sitting u.s. सीनेटरों ( Kennedy और Johnson ) were निर्वाचित as president and vice-president, a phenomenon that has been repeated एकबार, by बराक Obama and Joe बिडेन in 2008 ( in दोनो मामले, the president was the younger, अधिक जूनियर सीनेटर ).
Sherwood is a नगर in Washington काउंटी, ऑरेगॉन, United States.
Located in the southeast corner of the काउंटी, it is a आवासीय community in the tualatin घाटी दक्षिणपश्चिम of Portland.
The population थी 11,791 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
According to the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, the जनसांख्यिकी थी 18,205 निवासियों.
indirectly नामित for the शेरवुड वन in इंग्लैण्ड, it थी first incorporated in 1893 as a कस्बा.
The यूएसए patriot अधिनियम of 2001 is an अधिनियम of the U.S. कॉंग्रेस that थी signed into law by अध्यक्ष George W. बुश on अक्तूबर 26, 2001.
the शीर्षक of the act is a ten अक्षर एक्रोनिम ( यूएसए PATRIOT ) that stands लिये Uniting ( and ) strengthening America ( by ) providing उचित टूल्स Required ( to ) Intercept ( और ) obstruct आतंक Act of 2001.
The act, as a जवाब to the आतंकवादी हमले of सितंबर 11th, significantly घटाया प्रतिबंध in law enforcement agencies ' महफ़िल of प्रज्ञा भीतर the United राज्य ; expanded the Secretary of the treasury’s authority to विनियमित financial ट्रांजेक्शन, विशेषकर those involving विदेशी individuals और entities ; and broadened the discretion of विधि enforcement and आव्रजन अधिकारियों in निमाड़ और deporting immigrants suspected of terrorism-related acts.
The act also expanded the definition of आतंक to include domestic आतंक, यूँ enlarging the क्रमांक of क्रियाएँ to जिससे the USA PATRIOT Act’s expanded law enforcement शक्तियां can be लागू.
on may 26, 2011, अध्यक्ष बराक ओबामा प्रयुक्त an autopen to चिह्न the patriot sunsets Extension अधिनियम of 2011, a four-year extension of three कुंजी provisions in the यूएसए patriot Act while he was in फ़्रांस : roving wiretaps, खोज of कारोबार रिकॉर्ड ( the `` library records प्रावधान `` ), and conducting निगरानी of `` लोन भेड़ियों '' — individuals suspected of terrorist-related activities not linked to आतंकवादी समूह.
रिपब्लिकन leaders questioned if the उपयोग of the autopen मिले the constitutional आवश्यकताएँ for signing a विधेयक into law.
a हाउस in महारानी Anne स्टाइल at 223 एवेन्यू A.
snohomish is a city in Snohomish काउंटी, Washington, संयुक्त राज्य.
the population was 9,098 at the 2010 census.
The mayor of snohomish is karen Guzak, and the नगर Manager is लैरी Bauman.
snohomish prides itself लिये इसके ऐतिहासिक शहर, and थी एकबार ज्ञात लिये इसके many antique दुकानें when it थी ज्ञात as the `` पुरातन पूंजी of the उत्तरपश्चिम. ''
the ऐतिहासिक business और residential बीच of the कस्बा constitutes the snohomish ऐतिहासिक ज़िला, which is listed on the National Register of ऐतिहासिक Places.
Many घरों भालू प्लाक साथ the साल the house थी built और the name of the परिवार or व्यक्तिगत जो originally occupied it.
एकबार प्रत्येक year, the city देता टुर of the historic घरों ; एक of उन्हें, the blackman हाउस, is a year-round museum.
A general विमानन एयरफील्ड, Harvey एयरफील्ड, is कम than one mile दक्षिणपश्चिम of शहर snohomish.
डेव matthews Band ( dmb ) is an अमरीकी rock बैंड कि was formed in Charlottesville, वर्जिनिया, संयुक्त States, in 1991.
the founding members यहूद singer-songwriter और guitarist Dave matthews, bassist Stefan lessard, drummer /backing vocalist कार्टर beauford और saxophonist leroi मूर.
boyd tinsley थी added to the बैंड as a violinist जल्द बाद the band थी formed.
मूर died suddenly in अगस्त 2008 due to जटिलताओं इससे चोटों sustained in an atv accident.
ग्रैमी पुरस्कार -winner जेफ़ Coffin of Béla fleck और the Flecktones has चूंकि filled मूर 's spot as the band 's saxophonist.
Rashawn रॉस और टिम Reynolds have भी become full-time touring सदस्यों of the बैंड.
The बैंड 's 2009 album बिग whiskey and the GrooGrux King ( the first एल्बम since Moore 's death ) debuted at क्रमांक एक on the बिलबोर्ड 200, earning the बैंड उनके पांचवां consecutive number-one debut— making them the दूसरी बैंड पीछे मेटालिका to do so.
उनके सबसे recent एल्बम, Away from the संसार, थी released in 2012, और भी debuted at क्रमांक एक on the बिलबोर्ड चार्ट.
as of 2010, the Dave Matthews बैंड रै बेची over 30 million records विश्वव्यापी.
the band is known लिये उनके सालाना summer-long tours of the United States and यूरोपीय, featuring lengthy improvisational renditions of उनके गीतों, accompanied by an विस्तृत वीडियो और lighting दिखाएँ.
इस portion of the tour has become a stamp of dmb and रै grown with the बैंड since fenton विलियम्स began working with them in the early 1990s.
बाद बीस लगातार सालो of touring the बैंड घोषित कि it would लो the गर्मियाँ of 2011 बंद.
Dave matthews Band रै won एक ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, और थी awarded the naacp अध्यक्ष 's पुरस्कार.
According to जूलियन बंध, `` वे बेचें out the largest arenas on Earth, लकिन frequently दे उनके music away. ''
Transcendental जंगली जई : a अध्याय इससे an Unwritten रोमांस is a गद्य satire written by Louisa may Alcott, about उसके परिवार 's भागीदारी साथ the Transcendentalist community fruitlands in the जल्दी 1840s.
The कार्य थी पहला published in a नई York समाचारपत्र in 1873, और reprinted in 1874, 1876, और 1915 और after.
in उसके खाता, alcott provides the रियल लोगों शामिल साथ thin pseudonymous disguises.
Her पिता Amos bronson Alcott is `` Abel मेमने, '' जबकि उसके partner and community co-founder चार्ल्स Lane is `` timon शेर ; '' Abigail May Alcott, Louisa 's माँ and Bronson 's बीवी, is `` सिस्टर Hope. ''
alcott depicts her पिता as वर्चस्व by उसके अधिक forceful partner, and both मेन as लापरवाह और अव्यवहारिक dreamers.
The men of the community spend their समय in pointless debates जबकि सिस्टर आशा works from भोर to dusk to maintain their अस्तित्व.
a संकट arises at harvest समय, when the grain crop is threatened by an approaching तूफ़ान.
In alcott 's शब्द, `` परिचय the समय the अनाज was ready to house, some कॉल of the Oversoul wafted all the मेन दूर. ''
Sister Hope organizes the तभी उपलब्धियाँ सहायता, तीन छोटी girls और a लड़के, and manages to सहेजें the crop.
The little जातियाँ collapses as soon as the मौसम turns cold, जब it becomes साफ कि their प्रावधानों are too meager to पिछला the coming शीत.
Timon शेर and उसके son abscond to join the Shakers — हालांकि timon is unhappy to सीख कि जीवन among उन्हें is `` सब कार्य और no खेल. ''
abel is crushed by the विफलता of the एंटरप्राइज़ ; बाद दिनों of despair he begins to खा again तभी when he realizes कि his परिवार needs उसे.
सिस्टर Hope finds a रास्ता लिये उन्हें to subsist and persevere.
alcott 's दृश्य of पुरूष arrogance and मादा शोषण in this piece is paralleled in her novel, published in the वही year as `` Transcendental जंगली Oats. ''
`` Transcendental Wild Oats '' has been reprinted in अनेक modern editions.
माउंट of the Holy क्रॉस is the northernmost 14,000-foot mountain in the Sawatch दायरा, भाग of the रॉकी Mountains in Colorado.
it is स्तिथ in the पावन Cross wilderness near the भुत कस्बा of Holy क्रॉस नगर and in त्रिभुज काउंटी.
it was नामित लिये the distinctive cross-shaped snowfield on the पूर्वोत्तर फेस.
अंतर्गत यूएसडीए वन Service administration, the mountain थी proclaimed `` पावन क्रॉस नेशनल Monument '' by हर्बर्ट हूवर on may 11, 1929.
The स्मारक was transferred to the नेशनल Park सेवा in 1933.
in 1950, it थी लौटे to the Forest सेवा और खोया its नेशनल स्मारक status—the क्रमांक of विज़िटर to the mountain and the आसपास `` pilgrim 's हट '' had waned, and the व्यय of full-time स्टाफ could नहीं be justified.
इस पहाड़ रै महरूम the subject of चित्रकार, फ़ोटोग्राफ़र and भी a कविता by Henry Wadsworth लांगफेलो, ( the Cross of हिम ).
the पहला सरेआम available फोटोग्राफ थी प्रकाशित in National Geographic magazine.
Thomas मोरान चित्रित the पहाड़ in an आयल painting, which now is भाग of the संग्रहण of the संग्रहालय of the American वेस्ट, भाग of the Autry National Center in लॉस Angeles, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
it is still much photographed but it is not as well ज्ञात आज as it थी in the past.
आसपास features include कटोरी of Tears झील, directly under the ईस्ट फेस of the peak, tuhare झीलों, in a cirque that lies दक्षिण of a significant subpeak, और several अन्य झीलों.
notable स्थितियाँ भीतर शामिल the Dotsero ज्वालामुखी ( निकट अंतरराज्यीय 70 ), vail and aspen.
US 24 रनों निकट the शिखर through Gilman.
Photochrom print of माउंट of the पावन Cross c. 1900.
This चित्र is a reversed view of the mountain compared to कैसा it actually appears.
The first अंकित ascent of Holy क्रॉस थी in 1873, by F. V. hayden and फ़ोटोग्राफ़र W. H. जैक्सन दौरान एक of Hayden 's भौगोलिक सर्वेक्षण.
However, the शिखर may खूब have महरूम ascended previously by खनिक or अमरीकी Indians.
the पहला winter ascent of the शिखर was made in 1943 by russel Keene and हावर्ड Freedman of the 10th पहाड़ Division, then stationed at शिविर Hale.
Holy क्रॉस can be climbed by at तनिक चार different रूट, साथ the easiest और सबसे आम route होने the उत्तर Ridge, जिससे involves of vertical gain over और is rated YDS Class 2 लिये moderate scrambling.
The Cross couloir रूट फ़ॉर्म the vertical portion of the प्रसिद्ध cross feature, और provides an advanced हिम चढ़ाई or extreme स्की descent.
माउंट of the पावन Cross has a इतिहास of endangering the जीवनदान of अनेक hikers.
Primarily, the hikers जो require rescue are unfamiliar with the risks of प्रवेश wilderness areas और do not लाओ adequate उपकरण and आपूर्तियाँ to respond to emergency शर्तें.
हालांकि the summit on Mount of the Holy क्रॉस is अक्सर पहुँचे on a long day hike, unprepared hikers are frequently stranded or lost due to बदलना environmental conditions और confusion regarding the surrounding landscape, especially on the descent of North लकीरें.
thorough शोध and उचित planning चाहिए prevent सबसे tragedies.
Mount of the पावन cross is accessible इससे tigiwon Road, दक्षिण of minturn, कोलोराडो.
the हाफ Moon Pass Trail is the मानक route to the समिट of माउंट of the Holy क्रॉस via the North Ridge.
following the Fall क्रीक ट्रेल to an ascent of पायदान पहाड़ ट्रेल provides the best view of the पावन क्रॉस snow विशेषता from Notch Mountain लकीरें.
the जीएसएम लोगो is used to identify संगत handsets और उपकरण
GSM ( Global प्रणाली for मोबाईल Communications, originally ' ), is a मानक नियत developed by the European दूरसंचार Standards संस्थान ( etsi ) to describe प्रोटोकॉल for second पीढी ( 2g ) डिजिटल सेल्यूलर networks प्रयुक्त by mobile phones.
it became the de facto वैश्विक मानक लिये मोबाईल communications with over 80 % market share.
The जीएसएम मानक was developed as a बदलना लिये पहला पीढी ( 1g ) एनालॉग cellular networks, and originally described a डिजिटल, circuit switched संजाल अनुकूलित for पूरा duplex voice telephony.
इस was expanded over time to include आंकड़ा संचार, पहला by सर्किट switched transport, then packet आंकड़ा हस्तांतरण via gprs ( सामान्य Packet Radio सेवाएं ) और किनारे ( उन्नत आंकड़ा दरों for GSM Evolution or EGPRS ).
Further improvements यहूद बना जब the 3GPP विकसित तीसरा पीढी ( 3g ) umts मानकों followed by fourth पीढी ( 4g ) lte Advanced मानकों.
`` जीएसएम '' is a trademark स्वामित्व by the जीएसएम Association.
अध्यक्ष Franklin D. रूज़वेल्ट लक्षण the Lend-Lease bill to give सहायता to ब्रिटेन और चीन ( 1941 )
the Lend पट्टे act was an अधिनियम where the संयुक्त राज्य had supported इसके allies.
lend-lease ( ) was the विधि that प्रारंभ a कार्यक्रम अंतर्गत which the संयुक्त राज्य of America supplied the संयुक्त किंगडम, the USSR, Republic of China, Free France, and other अलाइड nations साथ materiel between 1941 और 1945.
it was signed into विधि on March 11, 1941, a year and a half बाद the outbreak of World युद्ध II in Europe in September 1939.
This was नौ महीने पहले the u.S. डाला the युद्ध in December 1941.
formally titled an अधिनियम to further प्रचार the रक्षा of the United राज्य, the अधिनियम effectively ended the संयुक्त राज्य ' pretense of neutrality.
A कुल of $ 50.1 अरब ( समतुल्य to $ आज ) लायक of आपूर्तियाँ were shipped : $ 31.4 अरब to ब्रिटेन, $ 11.3 billion to the Soviet संघ, $ 3.2 अरब to फ़्रांस, $ 1.6 billion to चीन, and छोटी sums to अन्य Allies.
रिवर्स lend-lease comprised services ऐसे as rent on air bases कि went to the U.S., और totaled $ 7.8 अरब ; of this, $ 6.8 billion आए इससे the अंग्रेजों and the राष्ट्रमंडल.
The terms of the अनुबंध provided that the materiel थी to be प्रयुक्त जबतक time लिये उनके वापसी or विनाश.
Supplies after the termination date were sold to Britain at a विशाल छूट लिये £1.075 billion using long-term लोन इससे the संयुक्त States.
कनाडा संचालित a समान कार्यक्रम कि भेजा $ 4.7 billion in आपूर्तियाँ to the संयुक्त किंगडम और the Soviet Union.
the संयुक्त राज्य किया नहीं चार्ज लिये सहायता supplied अंतर्गत this legislation.
इस program was a निर्णायक कदम away इससे non-interventionist नीति, which था वर्चस्व संयुक्त राज्य foreign relations चूंकि the समाप्त of World युद्ध i, towards अंतरराष्ट्रीय भागीदारी.
The जेरूसलम artichoke ( helianthus tuberosus ), also पुकारा sunroot, sunchoke, earth apple or topinambour, is a प्रजाति of sunflower देशी to पूर्वी North America, और found from eastern Canada और maine वेस्ट to North डकोटा, and south to उत्तरी फ्लोरिडा और Texas.
It is भी cultivated widely आरपार the शीतोष्ण मण्डल लिये इसके tuber, जिससे is प्रयुक्त as a रूट सब्ज़ी.
कैस्टिलो सैन फेलिप del Morro भी ज्ञात as फोर्ट San Felipe डेल morro or Morro किला, is a 16th-century citadel स्तिथ in San Juan, Puerto Rico.
Stonehenge is a prehistoric स्मारक in विल्टशायर, England, परिचय वेस्ट of Amesbury और उत्तर of salisbury.
एक of the सबसे famous sites in the world, Stonehenge is the remains of a ring of standing पत्थरों नियत भीतर earthworks.
It is in the middle of the सबसे dense complex of Neolithic और Bronze आयु स्मारक in इंग्लैण्ड, including अनेक सौ दफ़न mounds.
archaeologists मानना it थी built anywhere from 3000 BC to 2000 BC.
Radiocarbon dating in 2008 सुझाया कि the पहला पत्थरों were raised between 2400 and 2200 BC, whilst another सिद्धान्त suggests that bluestones may have महरूम उठाया at the site as early as 3000 bc.
the surrounding गोलाकार धरती बैंको and ditch, which constitute the earliest phase of the स्मारक, have महरूम dated to about 3100 BC.
the साईट और इसके परिवेश were added to the UNESCO 's सूची of संसार विरासत साइट in 1986 in a co-listing with avebury Henge.
It is a national legally protected अनुसूचित Ancient Monument.
stonehenge is स्वामित्व by the क्राउन और managed by English Heritage, जबकि the surrounding जमीन is owned by the नेशनल विश्वास.
पुरातत्व प्रमाण मिला by the Stonehenge riverside Project in 2008 indicates that stonehenge could have been a burial ground from its earliest beginnings.
the डेटिंग of cremated remains मिला on the site indicate that जमा contain human अस्थि from as जल्दी as 3000 bc, when the खाई and बैंको यहूद first dug.
Such जमा जारी at Stonehenge लिये at तनिक another 500 सालो.
the साईट is a प्लेस of religious significance और यात्राएं in neo-druidry.
The ncaa महिलाओं 's Division I चैंपियनशिप is an annual college basketball tournament for women.
Held प्रत्येक अप्रैल, the महिलाओं 's चैंपियनशिप was उदघाटन in the 1981–82 ऋतु.
The NCAA टूर्नामेंट थी preceded by the AIAW महिलाओं 's Basketball टूर्नामेंट, जिससे थी held annually from 1972 to 1982.
बास्केट थी एक of twelve महिलाओं 's sports added to the NCAA championship कार्यक्रम लिये the 1981-82 school साल, as the ncaa सगाई in बैटल साथ the संघ for intercollegiate Athletics लिये महिलाओं for sole शासन of महिलाओं 's कॉलेजिएट खेल.
The AIAW जारी to conduct इसके स्थापित चैंपियनशिप कार्यक्रम in the same बारह ( और अन्य ) खेल ; however, बाद a year of डुअल महिलाओं 's championships, the ncaa prevailed, जबकि the AIAW disbanded.
उपस्थिति और interest in the महिलाओं 's प्रभाग i चैंपियनशिप have grown over the सालो, विशेषकर चूंकि 2003, जब the फाइनल चैंपियनशिप खेल थी moved to the मंगलवार following the Monday men 's चैंपियनशिप खेल.
the महिलाओं 's चैंपियनशिप खेल is now the final overall game of the college बास्केट season.
पहले कि, the Women 's फाइनल चार थी प्रायः played on the शुक्रवार पहले the मेन 's फाइनल चार or the घंटों पहले the मेन played on the फाइनल शनिवार of the tournament.
the फाइनल थी usually निभाई the संडे दोपहर following the मेन 's फाइनल चार.
the टूर्नामेंट कोष्ठक is बना up of champions इससे प्रत्येक Division I सम्मेलन, जिससे receive automatic bids.
the बाकी स्लॉट हैं at-large bids, with टीमों chosen by an ncaa चयन कमेटी.
the चयन प्रक्रम and टूर्नामेंट seedings are based on several कारकों, including टोली rankings, win-loss records and दरजा प्रतिशत अनुक्रमणिका ( rpi ) data.
नापसंद the men 's tournament, वहीँ हैं तभी 32 at-large bids ( as of the next टूर्नामेंट in 2014 ), and no play-in खेल.
the women 's टूर्नामेंट, like the मेन 's, is staged in a सिंगल विलोपन स्वरूप, और is भाग of the मीडिया और पब्लिक frenzy ज्ञात colloquially as March Madness or The बिग नृत्य.
सब 63 games have been ब्रॉडकास्ट on television चूंकि 2003 on ईएसपीएन and ESPN2.
समान to the pre-2011 मेन 's टूर्नामेंट coverage on CBS, लोकल टीमों are shown on each चैनल when available, with `` whip-around '' coverage designed to showcase the सबसे प्रतिस्पर्धी contests in the rest of the देश.
the Rosetta स्टोन in the British संग्रहालय
the rosetta स्टोन is an प्राचीन Egyptian granodiorite stele inscribed साथ a डिक्री जारी at मेम्फिस in 196 bc on behalf of किंग Ptolemy V.
the डिक्री appears in तीन scripts : the upper टेक्स्ट is Ancient Egyptian चित्रलिपि, the मध्य portion demotic स्क्रिप्ट, और the न्यूनतम Ancient यूनानी.
क्युकी it presents essentially the same टेक्स्ट in all तीन स्क्रिप्ट ( साथ some minor मतभेद between उन्हें ), it provided the key to the आधुनिक समझना of मिश्र चित्रलिपि.
Originally displayed भीतर a टेम्पल, the stone थी संभवतः moved दौरान the early Christian or मध्यकालीन period और eventually प्रयुक्त as building material in the निर्माण of Fort जुलिएन near the कस्बा of रशीद ( Rosetta ) in the Nile Delta.
it was rediscovered वहीँ in 1799 by a soldier, pierre-françois bouchard, of the French expedition to मिश्र.
As the पहला प्राचीन मिश्र दुभाषिया टेक्स्ट बरामद in modern times, the Rosetta Stone aroused फैली पब्लिक ब्याज साथ इसके संभावित to decipher this hitherto untranslated प्राचीन language.
Lithographic नक़ल and प्लास्टर casts began circulating among यूरोपीय संग्रहालय और scholars.
Meanwhile, British troops defeated the फ्रेंच in मिश्र in 1801, और the original स्टोन came into British possession अंतर्गत the Capitulation of एलेक्जेंड्रिया.
transported to London, it has been on public प्रदर्शक at the अंग्रेजों संग्रहालय चूंकि 1802.
It is the most-visited ऑब्जेक्ट in the British Museum.
कभी चूंकि its rediscovery, the स्टोन रै been the फ़ोकस of राष्ट्रवादी rivalries, including इसके ट्रांसफ़र from फ्रेंच to British कब्ज़ा दौरान the napoleonic युद्धों, a long-running dispute over the सापेक्ष मान of Young 's and Champollion 's contributions to the decipherment, and चूंकि 2003, मांगे लिये the stone 's वापसी to मिश्र.
Study of the decree was already अंतर्गत way as the पहला पूरा अनुवाद of the Greek टेक्स्ट appeared in 1803.
it was 20 years, however, पहले the transliteration of the Egyptian स्क्रिप्ट थी announced by jean-françois champollion in पेरिस in 1822 ; it took longer still before विद्वानों यहूद समर्थ to read Ancient Egyptian inscriptions and literature confidently.
प्रमुख अग्रिम in the decoding यहूद : मान्यता कि the स्टोन offered तीन संस्करण of the वही टेक्स्ट ( 1799 ) ; कि the demotic टेक्स्ट used ध्वन्यात्मक characters to spell foreign names ( 1802 ) ; कि the hieroglyphic text did so as well, और had pervasive similarities to the demotic ( थामस Young, 1814 ) ; and that, in जोड to होने used लिये foreign names, ध्वन्यात्मक characters were भी प्रयुक्त to spell native मिश्र words ( champollion, 1822–1824 ).
दो अन्य fragmentary copies of the वही decree यहूद discovered बाद, and several similar Egyptian दुभाषिया or trilingual inscriptions हैं अभी ज्ञात, सहित दो slightly earlier Ptolemaic डिक्री ( the डिक्री of canopus in 238 bc, और the मेम्फिस decree of टॉलेमी iv, ca. 218 bc ).
the Rosetta Stone is इसलिए no longer unique, लकिन it थी the अनिवार्य कुंजी to modern understanding of Ancient Egyptian साहित्य और civilization.
The पद Rosetta Stone is अभी used in other contexts as the name लिये the essential सुराग to a new field of ज्ञान.
ज़हर डार्ट मेंढक ( भी dart-poison frog, poison मेंढक or formerly ज़हर तीर frog ) is the आम name of a समूह of मेंढक in the परिवार dendrobatidae जिससे हैं native to Central and South अमेरिका.
ये species हैं diurnal और often have brightly colored लाशें.
हालांकि सब wild dendrobatids are at तनिक somewhat विषाक्त, स्तर of toxicity vary considerably from एक species to the next and इससे one जनसांख्यिकी to another.
अनेक प्रजाति हैं threatened.
ये amphibians हैं प्रायः पुकारा `` डार्ट मेंढक '' due to the amerindians ' स्वदेशी use of उनके to ज़हर the tips of blowdarts.
however, of over 175 species, तभी four have been प्रलेखित as होने प्रयुक्त for this purpose ( curare plants हैं more commonly प्रयुक्त ), सब of जिससे आइये इससे the phyllobates genus, which is characterized by the अपेक्षाकृत विशाल आकार and high स्तर of toxicity of इसके सदस्यों.
cajeta is a Mexican confection of thickened syrup प्रायः made of sweetened caramelised मिल्क.
according to शेफ़ रिक Bayless, the name लिये cajeta आए from the Spanish phrase al punto de cajeta, जिससे अर्थात् `` a liquid thickened to the point at जिससे a spoon drawn through the द्रव reveals the bottom of the pot in जिससे it is होने cooked ''.
Another परिकल्पना is कि it takes its name इससे the small लकड़ी boxes in जिससे it was traditionally packed.
मैक्सिकन cajeta is माना a specialty of the नगर of celaya in the state of Guanajuato, हालांकि it is भी उत्पादित साथ the परंपरागत विधि in अनेक towns of the राज्य of jalisco, such as mazamitla, Sayula, and atotonilco el आल्टो.
cajeta is बना by simmering बकरी 's मिल्क, or occasionally a sweetened द्रव, stirring अक्सर, until it becomes very viscous due to वाष्पीकरण of water, और caramelized.
जबकि बकरी milk is the most usual आधार, अन्य liquids or रस may be प्रयुक्त.
In celaya, और आखिरकार the rest of Mexico, the confection of half बकरी 's मिल्क और हाफ गाय 's मिल्क became known by the name cajeta, लकिन elsewhere, the मिल्क कैंडी became ज्ञात as leche quemada, dulce de leche, etc.
It रै cousins in the अनेक भारतीय milk-based sweets like प्रभा और the मिल्क फ़ज burfi, और in the opera fudge of the u.S. Cajeta is खाया on इसके own as a sweet, as a spread or भरना for breads and pastries, ऐसे as churros, और as a टॉपिंग लिये बर्फ cream.
Certain liquors हैं added to खास recipes पुकारा cajeta envinada.
in addition, cajeta envinada especial is समृद्ध साथ किशमिश, बादाम, pecans or nuts.
प्रायः it is प्रयुक्त as a टॉपिंग लिये crêpes, as a मीठी सॉस boiled और softened bas साथ milk to soak the crepes, resulting in a tasty मिठाई.
In Mexico अनेक ब्रांड्स मेक cajeta लकिन the most common ब्रांड is Coronado.
it is भी बहुत आम to प्लेस cajeta between obleas to मेक a परंपरागत मैक्सिकन dessert.
प्रिंस विलियम, ड्यूक of कैम्ब्रिज ( William आर्थर फिलिप Louis ; born 21 June 1982 ), is the elder son of चार्ल्स, Prince of Wales, और Diana, राजकुमारी of वेल्स, and third-eldest पोता of महारानी एलिज़ाबेथ ii and Prince फिलिप, ड्यूक of एडिनबर्ग.
he is second in the line of उत्तराधिकार, पीछे his father, to the तख्तों of sixteen स्वतंत्र sovereign राज्य known as the राष्ट्रमंडल realms : the संयुक्त Kingdom, Canada, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, नई जीलैंड, Jamaica, Barbados, the बहामा, हरा, Papua नई गिनी, the Solomon आइलैंड्स, Tuvalu, संत लूसिया, संत विंसेंट and the grenadines, Belize, अण्टीगुआ और Barbuda, और Saint किट्स and Nevis.
प्रिंस विलियम थी educated at चार schools in the United किंगडम और obtained a degree इससे the विश्वविद्यालयों of st एंड्रयूज.
he खर्च भाग of a gap साल in चिली, बेलीज़, Tanzania, और कीनिया जहाँ he has जिया and holidayed अनेक times.
Prince विलियम रै also लिया kiswahili अध्ययन at विश्वविद्यालयों in Kenya और Tanzania.
he was commissioned as a Lieutenant in the ब्लूज़ और रॉयल्स Regiment of the household प्यादे —serving साथ उसके bhai प्रिंस हैरी —and, two years later, अर्जित उसके wings by completing पायलट training at royal एयर Force College cranwell.
in 2009, he transferred to the royal एयर फ़ोर्स, was promoted to उड़ान लेफ्टिनेंट और underwent helicopter उड़ती प्रशिक्षण in order to become a full-time pilot साथ the Search and बचाव फ़ोर्स.
In 2010, he समाप्त his सामान्य और special-to-type helicopter प्रशिक्षण और went on to raf घाटी on No. 22 स्क्वाड्रन performing co-pilot कर्तव्य on board a Sea King search and बचाव helicopter.
प्रिंस विलियम married उसके longtime गर्लफ्रेंड, Catherine मिडलटन, on 29 April 2011 at Westminster ऐबी.
Hours prior to his विवाह, प्रिंस विलियम थी created ड्यूक of कैम्ब्रिज, अर्ल of Strathearn, और सामन्त carrickfergus.
माली is a multilingual देश.
the भाषाएं बोला there प्रतिबिंबित प्राचीन settlement पैटर्न, migrations, and इसके long इतिहास.
ऍथनोलॉग रिश्तो 50 भाषाएं.
of these, फ्रेंच is the आधिकारिक भाषा और bambara is the most widely spoken.
altogether 13 of the indigenous languages of Mali have the legal status of नेशनल language.
Sign in फ्रेंच, at a स्मारक in बमाको.
{ { Infobox अवकाश
चाइनीज New साल
9 – 12 फ़रवरी ( वियतनाम )
रोजर्स Building, the headquarters of Rogers संचार
रोजर्स संचार inc. is a diversified public Canadian संचार and media कम्पनी.
it is particularly in the field of बेतार communications, cable television, telephone, and Internet connectivity साथ significant अतिरिक्त दूरसंचार और द्रव्यमान media assets.
the कम्पनी is headquartered in the Rogers Building in टोरंटो, Ontario.
the कम्पनी claims the विरासत of the रोजर्स Vacuum ट्यूब Company, founded in 1925 by Edward रोजर्स, which प्रारंभ the cfrb radio स्टेशन in Toronto, जिससे थी later acquired by बाहर interests.
the present enterprise तिथियाँ to 1960, जब रोजर्स ' son, टेड Rogers, founded रोजर्स Radio प्रसारण ltd.
That company acquired chfi कि year, as खूब as Aldred-Rogers प्रसारण, a partnership साथ जोएल Aldred which helped launch cfto in 1961.
Rogers बाद bought आउट aldred और प्रारंभ the current केबल और बेतार परिचालन, known as रोजर्स Cablesystems Ltd.
The मुख्य प्रतिस्पर्धी to the कम्पनी is घंटी कनाडा, which रै a similarly extensive portfolio of radio और television media एसेट, as खूब as बेतार, टेलीविज़न वितरण, और telephone services, विशेषकर in Eastern और सेंट्रल कनाडा ; the दो कंपनियाँ हैं often देखी as having a द्वयाधिकार on संचार सेवाएं in उनके regions.
however, the company भी competes nationally साथ telus for बेतार services, and primarily indirectly साथ Shaw संचार for टेलीविज़न service.
The कम्पनी also competes with a number of other मीडिया कंपनियाँ in the broadcasting उद्योग.
The अंतरजाल is a वैश्विक प्रणाली of interconnected कंप्यूटर संजाल कि उपयोग the standard अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल सुइट ( TCP/IP ) to serve अरबों of users worldwide.
It is a संजाल of networks that consists of millions of निजी, पब्लिक, अकादमिक, कारोबार, और government संजाल, of local to global scope, कि are linked by a broad array of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक, wireless और optical networking technologies.
the अंतरजाल carries an extensive दायरा of सूचना resources and सेवाएं, ऐसे as the inter-linked hypertext documents of the World Wide Web ( www ) और the अवसंरचना to support ईमेल.
सबसे परंपरागत communications media सहित telephone, म्यूज़िक, film, और टेलीविज़न are being reshaped or redefined by the अंतरजाल, giving जनम to नई सेवाएं ऐसे as voice over Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) और Internet प्रोटोकॉल टेलीविज़न ( iptv ).
Newspaper, किताब और अन्य print publishing हैं adapting to Web साईट प्रौद्योगिकी, or हैं reshaped into blogging और web फ़ीड्स.
the Internet has enabled and accelerated नई forms of इंसान interactions through instant messaging, Internet forums, और सोशल नेटवर्किंग.
ऑनलाइन खरीदारी रै boomed both for प्रमुख खुदरा outlets और छोटी शिल्पकार और traders.
Business-to-business and वित्तीय सेवाएं on the अंतरजाल affect सप्लाई chains आरपार संपूर्ण उद्योग.
the origins of the अंतरजाल reach back to शोध commissioned by the संयुक्त राज्य सरकारी in the 1960s to निर्माण robust, fault-tolerant communication via कंप्यूटर networks.
The funding of a नई U.S. रीढ़ by the नेशनल Science Foundation in the 1980s, as खूब as निजी funding for अन्य commercial backbones, led to विश्वव्यापी participation in the विकास of नई नेटवर्किंग technologies, और the विलय of many संजाल.
the व्यावसायीकरण of कया थी by the 1990s an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संजाल resulted in इसके popularization और incorporation into virtually प्रत्येक पहलू of आधुनिक human जीवन.
, more than 2.4 अरब people—over a तीसरा of the संसार 's इंसान जनसांख्यिकी —have प्रयुक्त the सेवाएं of the Internet ; approximately 100 टाइम्स more लोगों than यहूद using it in 1995, जब it थी ज़्यादातर प्रयुक्त by tech-savvy मध्य and अपर क्लास लोगों in the संयुक्त राज्य और several अन्य देशों.
the अंतरजाल has no centralized governance in either technological क्रियान्वयन or नीतियों लिये अभिगम और उपयोग ; each constituent network सेट its अपना policies.
Only the overreaching परिभाषाएं of the two प्रिंसिपल नाम स्पेसेस in the अंतरजाल, the अंतरजाल Protocol address space and the Domain Name प्रणाली, हैं निर्देशित by a maintainer संगठन, the अंतरजाल Corporation लिये Assigned names और Numbers ( icann ).
the technical underpinning and मानकीकरण of the कोर प्रोटोकॉल ( IPv4 और IPv6 ) is an activity of the अंतरजाल अभियान्त्रिकी Task फ़ोर्स ( ietf ), a non-profit संगठन of loosely संबद्ध अंतरराष्ट्रीय भागीदार that anyone may associate साथ by contributing तकनीकी विशेषज्ञता.
The 2006 Winter ओलंपिक, officially known as the XX ओलम्पिक Winter खेल, थी a शीत multi-sport इवेंट जिससे was मनाये in Turin, इटली इससे फ़रवरी 10, 2006, through February 26, 2006.
This marked the second समय इटली hosted the ओलम्पिक Winter Games, the पहला होने the सात Olympic Winter Games in cortina d'Ampezzo in 1956.
इटली भी hosted the Games of the XVII ओलंपियाड in रोम in 1960.
Turin थी selected as the host नगर for the 2006 खेल in 1999.
The आधिकारिक logo प्रदर्शित the name `` टोरिनो '', the इतालवी नाम of the नगर ; the city is ज्ञात as `` टोरीनो '' in दोनो अंग्रेज़ी और the local परंपरागत भाषा, Piedmontese.
the ओलम्पिक mascots of Torino 2006 were Neve ( `` हिम '' in Italian ), a female स्नोबॉल, and Gliz, a पुरूष ice घन.
the आधिकारिक motto of the xx Olympic शीत खेल was `` जुनून जीवनदान यहाँ ''.
`` Help ! '' is a सोंग by the बीटल्स कि परोसा as the शीर्षक song लिये दोनो the 1965 film और इसके soundtrack एल्बम.
it थी भी released as a single, and थी number एक लिये तीन weeks in दोनो the संयुक्त राज्य और the संयुक्त Kingdom.
`` Help ! '' थी लिखा primarily by जॉन Lennon, but credited to lennon–mccartney.
दौरान an इंटरव्यू with प्लेबॉय in 1984, Paul McCartney stated कि the title थी `` out of छटपटाहट ''.
पोस्टर लिये the 2005 प्रदर्शनी
siegfried bing ( 26 February 1838 – 6 September 1905 ), जो प्रायः gave उसके नाम as S. bing, and was यूँ प्रायः संदर्भित erroneously as `` Samuel bing '' ( Samuel ओटो bing, 1850–1905, थी उसके brother ) was a जर्मनी art डीलर जो lived in पेरिस as an वयस्क, और who helped introduce Japanese आर्ट और artworks to the वेस्ट और was a फ़ैक्टर in the विकास of the आर्ट देवानंद स्टाइल दौरान the late उन्नीसवीं सदी.
तुलना of पुरूष और female life प्रत्याशा at जनम लिये देशों and territories as defined in the 2011 सीआईए factbook, साथ चयनित bubbles labelled.
the बिंदीदार लकीर corresponds to बराबर मादा और male जीवन प्रत्याशा.
the apparent 3d आयतन of the बुलबुले हैं linearly proportional to उनके जनसांख्यिकी.
इस is a list of देशों by life प्रत्याशा at जनम.
Kennewick is a नगर in Benton County in the southeastern part of the U.S. राज्य of वॉशिंगटन, निकट the hanford nuclear साईट.
it is the सबसे populous of the तीन शहरों collectively referred to as the tri-cities ( the अन्य होने pasco और Richland ).
kennewick is स्तिथ along the दक्षिणपश्चिम बैंको of the Columbia नदी, opposite Pasco and बस south of the संगम of the कोलंबिया और Yakima rivers.
The जनसांख्यिकी was 73,917 at the 2010 census.
अप्रैल 1, 2012 estimates इससे the वॉशिंगटन राज्य Office of वित्तीय प्रबन्धन put the नगर 's जनसांख्यिकी at 75,160.
the nearest वाणिज्यिक विमानक्षेत्र is the tri-cities विमानक्षेत्र in pasco, a क्षेत्रीय commercial और निजी विमानक्षेत्र.
Forbes पत्रिका named kennewick the # 2 क्षेत्रफल in the संयुक्त राज्य for job विकास, जबकि nearby yakima was named # 1.
the आलेख cites the क्रमांक of वैज्ञानिकों employed by the Pacific उत्तरपश्चिम National प्रयोगशाला और क्षेत्रफल farmland लिये इस outlook.
the prothrombin समय ( pt ) और its निकला measures of prothrombin अनुपात ( pr ) और international सामान्यीकृत ratio ( INR ) हैं measures of the extrinsic pathway of coagulation.
इस परीक्षण is भी called `` protime inr '' and `` PT/INR ''.
वे हैं used to determine the clotting tendency of blood, in the माप of warfarin dosage, जिगर क्षति, और विटामिन K status.
pt उपायों कारकों i ( fibrinogen ), II ( prothrombin ), V, सात, और x.
It is प्रयुक्त in conjunction साथ the activated partial thromboplastin time ( aPTT ) which measures the मूलभूत pathway.
`` i 'm in the Mood लिये प्रेम '' is a popular सोंग.
The म्यूज़िक थी लिखा by Jimmy McHugh, the गीत by डोरोथी Fields.
The song was published in 1935.
it थी introduced by Frances langford in the फिल्म प्रत्येक रात्रि at Eight released कि year.
the सोंग थी प्रदर्शित in the 1936 हमारी गिरोह ( छोटी दुष्टों ) छोटी, the पिंच सिंगर, सुंग by कार्ल `` Alfalfa '' switzer, and in the 1936 फिल्मी ताड़ Springs.
It is प्रायः known to be switzer 's signature सोंग.
जेम्स Moody 's saxophone सोलो on a 1952 recording of इस song inspired the सोंग `` मूडी 's Mood लिये प्रेम ``.
हिप hop artist प्रिंस पॉल sampled the सोंग as the आधार लिये the track `` मनोदशा लिये प्रेम '' on उसके एल्बम a प्रिंस among चोरों ( 1999 ), with Don newkirk singing इसके original lyrics.
the सोंग 's title प्रेरित the English शीर्षक of वोंग Kar wai 's फिल्म In the मनोदशा for Love.
cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान is the वैज्ञानिक study of इंसान behavior और दिमागी processes, including दोनो their variability और invariance, अंतर्गत विविध cultural शर्तें.
through expanding research methodologies to recognize cultural variance in behavior, language, और meaning it seeks to extend और develop psychology.
Since मनोविज्ञान as an academic अनुशासन was developed largely in उत्तर America, कुछ psychologists became चिंतित that constructs स्वीकृत as सार्वभौमिक यहूद not as invariant as previously assumed, especially since many कोशिशें to replicate notable प्रयोग in अन्य संस्कृतियों था varying कामयाबी.
चूंकि वहीँ हैं सवाल as to whether theories dealing साथ सेंट्रल themes, ऐसे as affect, संज्ञान, conceptions of the self, और issues ऐसे as psychopathology, anxiety, और अवसाद, may कमी बाह्य वैध when `` exported '' to other cultural contexts, cross-cultural psychology re-examines उन्हें using methodologies designed to फ़ैक्टर in cultural differences so as to खाता for सांस्कृतिक variance.
हालांकि some critics have pointed to methodological flaws in cross-cultural psychological research and अर्जी कि गंभीर shortcomings in the theoretical और methodological bases प्रयुक्त impede बल्कि than सहायता the scientific ढूंढें लिये universal सिद्धान्त in psychology, cross-cultural psychologists are turning अधिक to the study of कैसा differences ( variance ) occur, बल्कि than searching लिये universals in the स्टाइल of भौतिकी or chemistry.
In 1972 the International संघ of cross-cultural Psychology ( IACCP ) थी स्थापित.
इस branch of मनोविज्ञान रै जारी to expand as वहीँ रै महरूम an increasing लोकप्रियता of incorporating संस्कृति और विविधता into अध्ययन.
Cross-cultural psychology is differentiated इससे Cultural मनोविज्ञान.
The latter is the branch of psychology that holds कि इंसान बर्ताव is significantly influenced by सांस्कृतिक मतभेद, अर्थ that मनोवैज्ञानिक phenomena can तभी be compared साथ प्रत्येक other across cultures to a बहुत सीमित extent.
in कंट्रास्ट, cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान includes a ढूंढें for possible universals in behavior and दिमागी प्रक्रियाओं.
Walter J. lonner, लिखने लिये नजर on Psi ची, रै stated कि `` cross-cultural psychology can be विचार of as a प्रकार शोध methodology, बल्कि than an entirely पृथक field within psychology ( 2000 ). ''
`` Judas '' is a सोंग by अमरीकी रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार महिला Gaga, from her दूसरी studio एल्बम Born This रास्ता ( 2011 ).
it was released by interscope रिकॉर्ड on अप्रैल 15, 2011, four दिनों ahead of इसके अनुसूचित release.
लिखा and produced by Lady Gaga और RedOne, `` यहूदा '' is a नृत्य and इलेक्ट्रो house सोंग परिचय a स्त्री in प्रेम साथ a man जो betrayed उसके.
it embodies the incidents that have haunted Gaga in the पास्ट, और इसके कोर अर्थ refers to the ऋणात्मक भाग of उसके जीवन कि वो ca n't एस्केप.
गागा रै further explained that the सोंग was also about honoring one 's भीतरी अंधेरा in order to bring oneself into the लाइट.
the कलाकृति लिये the सिंगल was designed by Gaga in microsoft शब्द.
in spite of a polarizing impact on अनेक धार्मिक समूह, the song was generally well received by आलोचकों, जो likened the सोंग to `` ख़राब रोमांस `` with कुछ noting it चाहिए have महरूम the एल्बम 's lead सिंगल.
the सोंग रै a समान sound to Gaga 's पिछला RedOne-produced tracks, सहित `` पोकर फेस ``, `` lovegame ``, `` Bad Romance '', और `` alejandro ``.
it contains तीन distinct hooks और a house -influenced ब्रेक bas.
गागा समझाया that the लाइनों बोला दौरान the breakdown बात परिचय उसके as परे redemption, regarding the परंपरागत दृश्य of what a स्त्री चाहिए be.
`` यहूदा '' initially had a strong बिक्री opening, but was less कामयाब commercially in comparison to Gaga 's previous singles.
the सोंग reached the शीर्ष टेन of the चार्ट in most major music बाज़ार, और भी पहुँचे the शीर्ष of the charts in दक्षिण Korea.
A music video लिये the सोंग थी filmed in अप्रैल 2011, co-directed by गागा और laurieann गिब्सन और co-starring Norman Reedus.
it has a biblical कथानक जहाँ Reedus निभाई यहूदा इस्कैरियट और गागा played Mary magdalene.
The video portrays them as modern day प्रचारकों going to Jerusalem.
it included the biblical स्टोरी of यहूदा betraying यीशु, and ended साथ Gaga as magdalene getting stoned to death.
Before its रिलीज, the कैथोलिक लीग condemned गागा for the कथित use of religious imagery और her role in the वीडियो.
however, आलोचकों generally praised the वीडियो, not ढूंढना कोई offensive content.
the वीडियो थी nominated for two पुरस्कार at the 2011 MTV Video म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार.
गागा has performed `` यहूदा '' on a क्रमांक of टेलीविज़न shows, सहित the ग्राहम Norton Show, Saturday Night Live, शुभ Morning americas `` गर्मियाँ Concert Series '', the फ्रेंच X फ़ैक्टर as खूब as on the एलेन degeneres दिखाएँ.
H.264/MPEG-4 Part 10 or avc ( उन्नत वीडियो Coding ) is a मानक for video संपीडन, और is फिलहाल one of the सबसे commonly used स्वरुप for the recording, compression, और distribution of ऊँची परिभाषा वीडियो.
The फाइनल drafting कार्य on the first संस्करण of the standard थी समाप्त in May 2003.
H.264/MPEG-4 AVC is a block-oriented motion-compensation -आधारd कोडेक मानक developed by the ITU-T Video कोडिंग Experts समूह ( VCEG ) साथ साथ the ISO/IEC jtc1 Moving Picture Experts Group ( MPEG ).
the प्रोजेक्ट साझेदारी प्रयत्न is known as the संयुक्त वीडियो टोली ( JVT ).
The itu-t h.264 मानक और the iso/iec mpeg-4 AVC मानक ( formally, ISO/IEC 14496-10 – MPEG-4 Part 10, Advanced वीडियो Coding ) हैं jointly कायम so that they have एकसमान technical सामग्री.
H.264 is शायद best ज्ञात as होने एक of the कोडेक मानकों लिये blu-ray discs ; सब blu-ray डिस्क players must be able to decode h.264.
It is भी widely प्रयुक्त by स्ट्रीमिंग internet स्त्रोत, ऐसे as वीडियो इससे Vimeo, youtube, और the itunes स्टोर, वेब तन्त्र ऐसे as the Adobe Flash खिलाड़ी और microsoft Silverlight, and also विभिन्न hdtv broadcasts over terrestrial ( ATSC, isdb-t, dvb-t or dvb-t2 ), केबल ( dvb-c ) and उपग्रह ( dvb-s और DVB-S2 ).
non-binding arbitration is a प्रकार of मध्यस्थता in जिससे the arbitrator makes a determination of the rights of the पार्टियों to the dispute, लकिन इस determination is not binding upon उन्हें, और no enforceable मध्यस्थता award is issued.
the `` award '' is in प्रभाव an सलाहकार राय of the arbitrator 's दृश्य of the respective merits of the पार्टियों मामले.
non-binding मध्यस्थता is used in कनेक्शन साथ attempts to reach a negotiated settlement.
the भूमिका of an arbitrator in non-binding मध्यस्थता is, on the सतह, similar to कि of a मध्यस्थ in a mediation.
however, the प्रिंसिपल भेद is कि whereas a mediator होगा कोशिश to help the पार्टियों ढूँढें a middle मैदान to compromise at, the arbitrator remains totally removed from the उपनिवेश प्रक्रम and होगा तभी दे a determination of liability और, if उचित, an indication of the quantum of क्षतिपूर्ति देय.
Subsequent to a non-binding arbitration, the parties remain फ़्री to pursue their दावा either through the courts, or by way of a बाइंडिंग मध्यस्थता, although in practice a उपनिवेश is the सबसे common निष्कर्ष.
the पुरस्कार और reasoning in a non-binding arbitration is लगभग invariably inadmissible in कोई subsequent action in the न्यायालयों or in another मध्यस्थता tribunal.
non-binding arbitration is utilised ज़्यादातर in the संयुक्त States और Canada.
it is largely unknown in Europe, हालांकि in the United किंगडम there is a अभ्यास of पार्टियों who are seeking a उपनिवेश to jointly instruct a महारानी 's counsel लिये an राय on the merits और संभावित quantum of a अर्जी, और then to negotiate on the basis of the views expressed in कि राय.
अगस्टाइन ज्वालामुखी is a लावा Dome जटिल on Augustine द्वीप in southwestern कुक Inlet in the kenai Peninsula Borough of southcentral coastal Alaska, दक्षिणपश्चिम of anchorage.
The अलास्का ज्वालामुखी वेधशाला फिलहाल दरों माउंट अगस्टाइन as स्तर of Concern रंग कोड Green for विमानन और the Volcano चेतावनी स्तर is at Normal.
अगस्टाइन द्वीप रै a जमीन क्षेत्रफल of, while वेस्ट Island, just बंद अगस्टाइन 's western shores, रै.
The island is बना up mainly of पास्ट फटना जमा.
Scientists have been able to discern that पास्ट dome पतन has resulted in विशाल avalanches.
a मैप of बेलीज़.
The country of बेलीज़ has roughly 386 km of coastline, और रै अनेक coral reefs, cays, और आइलैंड्स in the caribbean समुद्र.
सबसे of these रूप the बेलीज़ अवरोध Reef, the longest in the western hemisphere stemming approximately.
The रीफ और its आइलैंड्स have been a UNESCO संसार Heritage साईट चूंकि 1996.
the following is a list of oceanic आइलैंड्स of Belize, arranged according to प्रदेश लकिन सब of which are in the Caribbean Sea.
Most of the आइलैंड्स variate in स्पेलिंग between `` cay '' और `` caye '', and भी use the स्पेनी `` cayo ''.
नदी आइलैंड्स have not महरूम सूचीबद्ध.
ड्राइव अक्षर Access ( DLA ) is a discontinued commercial packet लिखने application for the Microsoft खिड़कियाँ operating system कि allows ऑप्टिकल डिस्क आंकड़ा storage डिवाइस to be प्रयुक्त in a manner समान to फ्लॉपी डिस्क.
DLA is a पैकेट लिखने technology for CD और DVD media that uses the UDF संचिका प्रणाली.
dla is not compatible साथ Windows विस्टा and नए, although a पैच exists to फिक्स इस समस्या under Windows विस्टा.
roxio Burn थी introduced on अप्रैल 30, 2009.
As a बदलना for dla, it remedies संगतता issues Internet एक्सप्लोरर 8.
Alpha रेक्स emmanuel Humbard ( अगस्त 13, 1919 – September 21, 2007 ) थी a well-known अमरीकी television इंजीलवादी जिनकी गिरजाघर of कल show थी shown on over 600 स्टेशन at the शिखर of इसके लोकप्रियता.
Limitless is a 2011 अमरीकी थ्रिलर फिल्मी निर्देशित by Neil बर्गर and अभिनीत Bradley कूपर, abbie cornish, and Robert De niro.
It is आधारित on the 2001 अनोखा the Dark फ़ील्ड by एलन glynn with the पटकथा by लेस्ली डिक्सन.
अलास्का ( ) is a state in the संयुक्त States, situated in the northwest extremity of the North American महाद्वीप, साथ the अंतरराष्ट्रीय boundary साथ कनाडा to the east, the आर्कटिक समंदर to the उत्तर, और the प्रशांत Ocean to the वेस्ट और south, with रूस further वेस्ट आरपार the बेरिंग Strait.
Alaska is the largest state in the United States by क्षेत्रफल, the 4th तनिक populous और the तनिक densely populated of the 50 United States.
Approximately half of अलास्का 's 731,449 निवासियों सजीव भीतर the anchorage महानगर क्षेत्रफल.
अलास्का 's अर्थव्यवस्था is dominated by the आयल, natural गैस, and fishing उद्योग ; it रै ये संसाधन in प्रचुरता.
अलास्का थी खरीदा इससे Russia on कूच 30, 1867, लिये $ 7.2 लाख ( $ adjusted for महंगाई ) at लगभग two cents per एकड़ ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
the जमीन went through अनेक प्रशासनिक परिवर्तन before बनने an organized ( or incorporated ) territory on may 11, 1912, and the 49th state of the u.S. on जनवरी 3, 1959.
the नाम `` Alaska '' ( аляска ) थी already introduced in the Russian औपनिवेशिक काल, जब it was प्रयुक्त तभी लिये the प्रायद्वीप और is निकला इससे the aleut alaxsxaq, अर्थ `` the मेनलैंड '' or, more वस्तुतः, `` the object towards which the कार्रवाई of the sea is directed ''.
It is also known as Alyeska, the `` great जमीन '', an aleut word निकला from the same root.
नेल्सन Mandela महानगर University ( nmmu ) is a दक्षिण African tertiary education संस्था साथ its प्रमुख administration in the तटीय city of बंदरगाहों एलिज़ाबेथ.
A merging of three institutions founded nmmu in January 2005 लकिन its history तिथियाँ वापस to 1882 साथ the foundation of बंदरगाहों एलिज़ाबेथ आर्ट School.
the विश्वविद्यालयों draws अंतरराष्ट्रीय विद्यार्थी इससे सब over the world.
There are over 3000 अंतरराष्ट्रीय विद्यार्थी and शामिल students इससे the संयुक्त राज्य, फ़्रांस, चीन, जर्मनी, बेल्जियम, Denmark, Finland, Netherlands, Norway, स्वीडन, संयुक्त Kingdom और अनेक अन्य देशों.
nmmu is a व्यापक विश्वविद्यालयों offering पेशेवर और वोकेशनल प्रशिक्षण.
The विश्वविद्यालयों रै छह campuses - पाँच in बंदरगाहों Elizabeth और one in जार्ज.
the main campus is the दक्षिण Campus.
Students at NMMU can study towards diplomas and degrees up to और सहित doctoral स्तर योग्यता.
A क्रमांक of courses शामिल कार्यस्थल experience as भाग of the curriculum.
covergirl is an अमरीकी कॉस्मेटिक्स brand संस्थापित in मेरीलैंड, by the noxzema Chemical कम्पनी ( बाद पुकारा noxell ) और acquired by procter & Gamble in 1989.
the noxell Company advertised this कॉस्मेटिक्स लकीर by allowing `` कवर लड़कियों '', फ़ैशन मॉडल जो appear on the सामने कवर of महिलाओं 's मैगज़ीन, to wear its उत्पाद.
CoverGirl makes up लिये कमी of सीधा individual ग्राहक service by providing a wide किस्में of cosmetics उपलब्धियाँ at reasonable कीमतें.
On the उत्पत्ति of प्रजाति, published on 24 November 1859, is a work of scientific literature by चार्ल्स Darwin which is considered to be the foundation of विकासवादी जीवविज्ञान.
इसके पूरा शीर्षक थी on the उत्पत्ति of प्रजाति by Means of प्राकृतिक चयन, or the संरक्षण of favoured दौड़ in the संघर्ष लिये Life.
For the छठे संस्करण of 1872, the छोटी शीर्षक was बदला to The उत्पत्ति of Species.
Darwin 's किताब introduced the वैज्ञानिक theory that populations evolve over the कोर्स of पीढियां through a process of natural चयन.
It प्रस्तुत a body of प्रमाण कि the diversity of जीवन arose by आम descent through a branching पैटर्न of एवोल्यूशन.
Darwin included प्रमाण कि he था gathered on the beagle expedition in the 1830s और उसके subsequent findings from शोध, पत्राचार, और experimentation.
Various evolutionary विचार had already महरूम प्रस्तावित to बताइये नई निष्कर्षों in जीवविज्ञान.
वहीँ was growing support for such ideas among dissident anatomists and the सामान्य पब्लिक, लकिन during the first हाफ of the 19th सदी the अंग्रेज़ी scientific स्थापना थी closely tied to the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड, जबकि विज्ञान was part of natural theology.
Ideas परिचय the transmutation of प्रजाति were controversial as वे विरोधी with the beliefs कि species were अपरिवर्तनशील parts of a designed पदानुक्रम और that इंसानो यहूद अद्वितीय, unrelated to अन्य पशु.
the political और theological implications यहूद पडती debated, but transmutation थी not स्वीकृत by the scientific mainstream.
the किताब थी written लिये non-specialist पाठक and आकर्षित widespread ब्याज upon its प्रकाशन.
As Darwin was an प्रतिष्ठित वैज्ञानिक, उसके निष्कर्षों were taken seriously और the evidence he प्रस्तुत उत्पन्न वैज्ञानिक, philosophical, and धार्मिक चर्चा.
the बहस over the book contributed to the अभियान by T.H. Huxley and उसके fellow members of the x Club to secularise science by promoting वैज्ञानिक naturalism.
भीतर दो दशकों वहीँ थी widespread वैज्ञानिक अनुबंध that evolution, with a branching pattern of common descent, था occurred, लकिन वैज्ञानिकों were slow to दे प्राकृतिक चयन the significance कि Darwin thought appropriate.
दौरान the `` ग्रहण of डार्विनवाद `` from the 1880s to the 1930s, विभिन्न other mechanisms of evolution यहूद दिए अधिक क्रेडिट.
साथ the विकास of the आधुनिक evolutionary संश्लेषण in the 1930s and 1940s, Darwin 's concept of विकासवादी adaptation through प्राकृतिक selection became सेंट्रल to आधुनिक evolutionary सिद्धान्त, now the unifying concept of the जीवन sciences.
Charles डिलन `` Casey '' Stengel ( ; जुलाई 30, 1890 – सितंबर 29, 1975 ), nicknamed `` The बूढ़ा Perfessor '', थी an अमरीकी Major लीग Baseball outfielder and मैनेजर.
he was elected to the बेसबॉल Hall of Fame in.
स्टेंगल थी born in Kansas नगर, मिसौरी, और originally nicknamed `` डच '', a आम उपनाम at कि time लिये अमेरिकी of German ancestry.
After उसके major league करियर began, he acquired the nickname `` Casey '', which originally came from the आद्याक्षर of उसके hometown ( `` K. C. '' ), which evolved into `` केसी '', बहकावे by the चौड़ी popularity of the कविता केसी at the चमगादड़.
in the 1950s, sportswriters उतावले उसे साथ yet another nickname, `` the Old प्राध्यापक '' ( or `` Perfessor '' ), for his sharp wit और उसके ability to बात at length on anything बेसबॉल -related.
हालांकि उसके बेसबॉल career spanned a number of teams और शहरों, he is primarily associated साथ क्लब in नई यॉर्क नगर.
between playing and managing, he is the only man to have worn four of New यॉर्क 's प्रमुख लीग क्लब ' वर्दी.
He थी the पहला of चार मेन ( through the season ) to manage दोनो the नई यॉर्क Yankees और New यॉर्क Mets ; योगी berra, डलास ग्रीन, and Joe टोरेस हैं the अन्य.
जैसे Torre, he also managed the braves and the Dodgers.
He ended his बेसबॉल career as the beloved manager for the तब विस्तार नई York मेट्स, which जीती over the दिल of New यॉर्क partly due to the अद्वितीय अक्षर of उनके दिग्गज leader.
जून ( ) is the छठे month of the साल in the Julian और Gregorian calendars और एक of the four months with a लंबाई of 30 दिनों.
Ovid provides two etymologies लिये जून 's नाम in his poem concerning the months entitled the Fasti.
The पहला is कि the माह is named बाद the Roman देवी juno, wife of बृहस्पति and समतुल्य to the Greek goddess hera ; the दूसरी is कि the नाम आता इससे the Latin शब्द iuniores, meaning `` younger ones, '' as opposed to maiores ( `` बड़ो '' ) for जिससे the preceding माह May may be नामित ( Fasti vi.1–88 ).
देखिए : Months in विभिन्न पंचांग also called the ऋतु of the जून is the month with the longest daylight घंटों of the year in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध और the shortest daylight घंटों of the साल in the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध.
जून in the Northern गोलार्ध is the seasonal समतुल्य to December in the Southern गोलार्ध और vice versa.
In the उत्तरी hemisphere, the beginning of the meteorological गर्मियाँ is 1 June.
In the Southern hemisphere, the शुरूआत of the meteorological शीत is 1 जून.
at the start of जून, the सूर्य उदय in the constellation of वृष ; at the end of जून, the sun rises in the constellation of मिथुन.
however, due to the precession of the equinoxes, जून begins साथ the सूर्य in the astrological sign of मिथुन, और ends with the sun in the astrological चिह्न of कर्कट.
जून is known for the विशाल क्रमांक of विवाह that occur over the कोर्स of the माह.
According to एक etymology, जून is named बाद juno ( Hera ).
juno थी the देवी of विवाह और a शादीशुदा युगल 's household, so some consider it शुभ luck to be शादीशुदा in इस माह.
according to another etymology provided by the Roman poet ओविड, June is named लिये the iuniores, latin लिये `` young people '' ( fasti vi.88 ) and that the माह of may is named for the maiores, Latin लिये `` बड़ो ''.
In आइसलैंड, folklore says that if तुम bathe नग्न in the morning ओस on the morning of June 24, तुम हैं supposed to रखना aging at खाड़ी लिये longer.
a constitution is a set of fundamental सिद्धान्त or स्थापित precedents according to जिससे a state or other organization is governed.
ये rules साथ मेक up, i.e. constitute, what the entity is.
जब ये सिद्धान्त are लिखा down into a सिंगल दस्तावेज़ or नियत of legal documents, those documents may be said to embody a written संविधान ; if वे हैं लिखा down in a single comprehensive दस्तावेज़, it is said to embody a संहिताबद्ध constitution.
constitutions concern different स्तर of organizations, इससे sovereign states to कंपनियाँ and unincorporated एसोसिएशन.
a सन्धि जिससे establishes an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन is also its constitution, in कि it होता define कैसा that संगठन is constituted.
भीतर states, whether sovereign or federated, a constitution defines the principles upon जिससे the राज्य is आधारित, the कार्यविधि in which कानून हैं made और by जिसको.
कुछ constitutions, especially संहिताबद्ध constitutions, also अधिनियम as limiters of state शक्ति, by establishing लाइनों जिससे a राज्य 's शासकों can not cross, ऐसे as आधारभूत rights.
जार्ज वॉशिंगटन at संवैधानिक सम्मेलन of 1787, हस्ताक्षर of U.S. Constitution.
the संविधान of इण्डिया is the longest लिखा संविधान of कोई sovereign देश in the world, containing 448 articles, 12 schedules and 100 amendments, साथ 117,369 words in its English भाषा version, जबकि the संयुक्त States संविधान is the shortest लिखा constitution, at 7 आलेख और 27 amendments.
रॉन diftler ( बाएँ ), नासा Robonaut मैनेजर assisting in a robonaut familiarization प्रशिक्षण सत्र in the स्पेस पर्यावरण सिमुलेशन Laboratory at NASA 's जॉनसन Space बीच.
Engineering management is a specialized form of प्रबन्धन that is चिंतित साथ the अनुप्रयोग of अभियान्त्रिकी principles to business अभ्यास.
अभियान्त्रिकी management is a करियर कि brings together the technological problem-solving savvy of engineering और the organizational, प्रशासनिक, और नियोजन abilities of प्रबन्धन in अनुक्रम to oversee complex enterprises इससे धारणा to पूर्णता.
Example क्षेत्रों of engineering are उत्पाद विकास, manufacturing, construction, design अभियान्त्रिकी, industrial अभियान्त्रिकी, प्रौद्योगिकी, production, or any अन्य field कि employs कर्मियों who perform an engineering फलन.
कामयाब अभियान्त्रिकी managers typically आवश्यकता प्रशिक्षण और अनुभव in कारोबार और engineering.
Technically inept managers tend to be deprived of support by उनके technical टोली, और non-commercial प्रबंधक tend to कमी commercial acumen to उद्धार in a मार्केट अर्थव्यवस्था.
Largely, engineering प्रबंधक manage engineers who हैं driven by non-entrepreneurial सोच, यूँ आवश्यकता the जरुरी लोगों skills to coach, mentor and motivate technical professionals.
अभियान्त्रिकी पेशेवर joining निर्माण companies sometimes become अभियान्त्रिकी प्रबंधक by डिफॉल्ट after a काल of time.
वे हैं required to सीख कैसा to मैनेज once वे are on the job, हालांकि इस is प्रायः an अप्रभावी way to develop managerial abilities.
in an insurance policy, the deductible is the राशि of खर्च that जरूर be paid out of pocket before an insurer होगा अदा कोई खर्च.
in सामान्य उपयोग, the पद deductible may be प्रयुक्त to describe एक of several प्रकार of clauses ( देखिए नीचे ) कि are प्रयुक्त by insurance कंपनियाँ as a दहलीज लिये नीति भुगतान.
deductibles हैं typically प्रयुक्त to deter the large क्रमांक of trivial दावा कि a उपभोक्ता can be reasonably expected to bear the लागत of.
By restricting इसके कवरेज to कार्यक्रम कि हैं significant enough to incur large लागत, the बीमे कड़ expects to अदा आउट slightly छोटी amounts much कम अक्सर, रूष्ट much higher savings.
as a result, बीमे premiums हैं typically सस्ता when वे involve उच्चतर deductibles.
deductibles are normally provided as clauses in an बीमे नीति कि dictate how much of an insurance-covered व्यय is borne by the policyholder.
वे are सामान्यतः कोटेड as a फिक्स्ड मात्रा और is a part of सबसे policies covering losses to the नीति holder.
The insurer तब becomes liable लिये claimable expenses कि exceed इस राशि ( विषय to the maximum योग claimable indicated in the अनुबंध ).
Depending on the policy, the deductible may apply per covered incident, or प्रति year.
लिये नीतियों जहाँ incidences हैं not आसान to delimit ( for example health insurance ), the deductible is typically applied per साल.
अनेक deductibles can be नियत by the insurer based on the cause of the अर्जी.
लिये उदाहरण, a सिंगल housing insurance policy may contain multiple deductible amounts for घाटा or क्षति arising इससे चोरी, आग, प्राकृतिक calamities, evacuation etc.
वहीँ हैं also deductible reimbursement कार्यक्रम कि reimburse a deductible in the event of an स्वचालित, घर, boat/yacht or health बीमे अर्जी.
An invoice or विधेयक is a वाणिज्यिक दस्तावेज़ issued by a विक्रेता to a buyer, indicating the उत्पाद, quantities, and agreed कीमतें for products or सेवाएं the विक्रेता has provided the buyer.
an चालान indicates the बिक्री transaction तभी.
Payment शर्तें are स्वतंत्र of the चालान और हैं negotiated by the buyer and the विक्रेता.
भुगतान शर्तें हैं प्रायः included on the चालान.
the खरीदार could have already सशुल्क लिये the उत्पाद or services listed on the चालान.
खरीदार can भी have a maximum क्रमांक of दिनों in which to pay लिये these goods और is sometimes offered a छूट if paid before the due तिथि.
in the rental industry, an invoice जरूर शामिल a विशिष्ट सन्दर्भ to the अवधि of the समय being billed, so in जोड to मात्रा, दाम and discount the invoicing amount is भी आधारित on अवधि.
Generally प्रत्येक लकीर of a rental चालान will refer to the वास्तविक घंटों, दिनों, सप्ताह, महीने, etc., होने billed.
From the पाइंट of दृश्य of a विक्रेता, an चालान is a sales invoice.
From the point of view of a buyer, an invoice is a खरीदें चालान.
the दस्तावेज़ indicates the खरीदार और विक्रेता, लकिन the पद चालान indicates money is owed or owing.
In अंग्रेज़ी, the context of the पद चालान is प्रायः प्रयुक्त to clarify its meaning, ऐसे as `` We sent them an चालान '' ( वे owe us money ) or `` we प्राप्त an invoice from उन्हें '' ( we owe उन्हें धन ).
The right प्रमुख bronchus ( or सही primary bronchus, or सही principal bronchus ) is a bronchus of the respiratory system.
it is wider, shorter, और अधिक vertical in दिशा than the बाएँ.
It is परिचय 2.5 cm long, and enters the सही lung nearly opposite the पांचवां thoracic vertebra.
The azygos vein arches over it इससे behind ; और the सही pulmonary धमनी झूठ at first below और then in front of it.
About 2 cm from इसके शुरुआत it देता off a branch to the अपर पालि of the right फेफड़ों.
इस is termed the eparterial शाखा of the bronchus, क्युकी it arises above the सही pulmonary artery.
the bronchus now passes नीचे the artery, और is ज्ञात as the hyparterial शाखा ; it divides into दो branches लिये the मध्य और निम्नतर lobes.
if a foreign body in the airway गुजरता through the श्वासनली, it होगा most संभावित enter the right main bronchus बजाय of the बाएँ, due to the straighter संरेखण of the right bronchus to the trachea.
Squash is a racquet खेल played by two ( singles ) or चार players ( युगल ) in a four-walled अदालत with a small, खोखला रबर बॉल.
the खिलाड़ी जरूर वैकल्पिक in striking the ball with उनके racquet and hit the बॉल onto the playable सतहों of the चार दीवारें of the अदालत.
the game was formerly पुकारा स्क्वैश racquets, a सन्दर्भ to the `` squashable '' नरम बॉल प्रयुक्त in the game ( compared साथ the fatter बॉल प्रयुक्त in its जनक खेल racquets or rackets ).
Squash is recognized by the ioc and supporters are lobbying लिये इसके incorporation in a भविष्य Olympic कार्यक्रम.
in 2003, फोर्ब्स rated स्क्वैश as the क्रमांक एक healthiest खेल to खेल.
अवशेष oil is oil found in low एकाग्रता naturally or in बेहाल आयल फ़ील्ड.
Often मिश्रित साथ जल, it can not be recovered by conventional तकनीकों.
however, it can be recovered using carbon dioxide-enhanced oil रिकवरी ( co2 EOR ) जिससे involves injecting carbon dioxide into the well reducing viscosity और बढ़ाना प्रवाह of the आयल.
the technique is नहीं new लकिन रै नहीं महरूम प्रयुक्त extensively on residual oil zones, low-grade जमा of petroleum ऐसे as the 38 वर्गाकार मील in the permian Basin of टेक्सास leased by elliott रूज़वेल्ट jr.
The technique is limited by उपलब्धता of carbon डाइऑक्साइड.
It does नहीं result in sequestration of the कार्बन dioxide but the gas is recycled as much as संभावित.
संयुक्त States reserves of residual आयल हैं अनुमानित to be 100 अरब barrels.
कलाकार 's रेंडरिंग of the fire, by John R. chapin, originally printed in Harper 's Weekly ; the दृश्य faces पूर्वोत्तर आरपार the randolph Street सेतु.
the ग्रेट शिकागो आग थी a conflagration that burned इससे संडे, अक्तूबर 8, to जल्दी मंगलवार, October 10, 1871, हत्या hundreds and destroying परिचय in शिकागो, इलिनोइस.
हालांकि the fire थी एक of the largest u.S. आपदाओं of the 19th century, the rebuilding that began helped develop शिकागो as एक of the सबसे populous and economically important American शहरों.
Henry VIII ( 28 जून 1491 – 28 जनवरी 1547 ) was king of इंग्लैण्ड इससे 21 April 1509 जबतक उसके death.
he थी lord, and बाद king, of आयरलैंड, as well as continuing the nominal अर्जी by the English monarchs to the किंगडम of France.
Henry was the दूसरी monarch of the ट्यूडर राजवंश, succeeding his पिता, Henry सात.
Besides उसके छह marriages, हेनरी VIII is ज्ञात for उसके भूमिका in the विरह of the Church of इंग्लैण्ड इससे the Roman कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर.
हेनरी 's struggles साथ रोम led to the separation of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड from papal प्राधिकार, the विच्छेद of the monasteries, और उसके अपना establishment as the परम् Head of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड.
yet he remained a आस्तिक in कोर Catholic theological शिक्षाओं, even बाद his excommunication इससे the Roman कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर.
Henry oversaw the विधिक union of इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स साथ the Laws in Wales Acts 1535 और 1542.
in 1513, the नई king अलाइड साथ the पावन Roman सम्राट, Maximillian I, और invaded France in 1513 with a large, well-equipped फौज, लकिन हासिल little at a considerable financial लागत.
maximillian, लिये his भाग, used the अंग्रेज़ी आक्रमण to उसके own ends, and इस prejudiced England 's ability to defeat the फ्रेंच.
इस foray would prove the प्रारंभ of an obsession for हेनरी, who invaded again in 1544.
इस time, Henry 's forces captured the important city of Boulogne, but again the Holy रोमन सम्राट, चार्ल्स v, समर्थित Henry तभी as long as he needed to and England, strained by the enormous cost of the युद्ध, ransomed the नगर back for सलाम.
उसके contemporaries माना हेनरी in his प्रधान to be an आकर्षक, educated and संपन्नता king, और he has been वर्णित as `` एक of the सबसे charismatic शासकों to बैठना on the अंग्रेज़ी throne ''.
besides ruling साथ absolute power, he also सगाई खुद as an author और composer.
His ख्वाहिश to provide इंग्लैण्ड साथ a पुरूष heir – which stemmed partly इससे personal vanity and partly क्युकी he believed a daughter होता be unable to consolidate the ट्यूडर राजवंश and the fragile peace that existed following the Wars of the Roses – led to the दो बाते लिये which हेनरी is most remembered : उसके छह marriages और the अंग्रेज़ी reformation.
हेनरी became morbidly obese और उसके स्वास्थ्य suffered, contributing to his death in 1547.
he is अक्सर characterised in his later जीवन as a lustful, egotistical, harsh, and असुरक्षित किंग.
la Reina डेल सूर ( the महारानी of the दक्षिण ) is a spanish-language telenovela produced by the संयुक्त राज्य टेलीविज़न संजाल telemundo, in संयोजन with the Antena 3 संजाल और rti producciones.
Based on a अनोखा of the same name by स्पेनी author arturo pérez-reverte, the drama depicts the वृद्धि of Teresa मेंडोज़ा ( केट del Castillo ), a यंग woman from Mexico जो becomes the most शक्तिशाली ड्रग trafficker in दक्षिणी स्पेन.
Patricio Wills, the अध्यक्ष of telemundo टेलीविज़न Studios, थी the कार्यपालिका producer.
हालांकि la Reina डेल सूर was मनोनीत for novela of the साल, पसंदीदा सीसे अभिनेत्री, and बेहतरीन Bad Luck वीडियो, it won no पुरस्कार.
साथ a $ 10 लाख budget, La reina del सूर थी the most expensive telenovela ever produced by Telemundo.
The program 's premiere on February 28, 2011, थी the संजाल 's उच्चतम रेटेड premiere for a telenovela to तिथि.
the कार्यक्रम अक्सर वर्चस्व इसके समय स्लॉट, भी over English language प्रोग्रामिंग on other प्रमुख u.S. संजाल.
la reina डेल Sur समाप्त its 63 episode run on telemundo और इसके 13 एपीसोड चलाएं on एंटेना 3 simultaneously on may 30, 2011.
The फाइनल episode was the उच्चतम rated broadcast in telemundo 's 19-year history ( 4.2 million दर्शक ), और ताल सब of the English भाषा u.S. television संजाल to earn the क्रमांक एक स्लॉट in the 18-49 adult जनसांख्यिकी.
The कार्यक्रम 's success spurred Telemundo to लॉन्च its पहला campaign to gain the series an एमी पुरस्कार नामांकन.
A one-night खास featuring अनेक cast सदस्यों aired on May 31, 2011, and marked the telemundo डेब्यू of विख्यात Latina टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व Cristina Saralegui.
la Reina डेल Sur is broadcast in several other बाज़ार, सहित सर्बिया, Colombia, Chile, साइप्रस, निकारागुआ, कोस्टा रिका, Mexico, अल्बानियाई, हंगेरियाई, Slovenia, क्रोएशिया, Romania, ( among others ).
an उदाहरण of रैक mounted servers
a वेब होस्टिंग सेवा is a प्रकार of अंतरजाल hosting service कि allows individuals and संगठन to मेक their website accessible via the संसार चौड़ी Web.
Web होस्ट हैं कंपनियाँ कि provide स्पेस on a सर्वर owned or leased लिये use by क्लाइंट, as खूब as providing Internet कनेक्टिविटी, typically in a आंकड़ा बीच.
Web hosts can also provide आंकड़ा बीच space और कनेक्टिविटी to the अंतरजाल for other servers स्तिथ in उनके आंकड़ा center, पुकारा colocation, भी known as आवास in Latin अमेरिका or फ़्रांस.
the पैमाना of web होस्टिंग services varies greatly.
the most basic is वेब पेज और small-scale file hosting, जहाँ फाइलें can be अपलोड via File ट्रांसफ़र Protocol ( एफटीपी ) or a वेब इंटरफ़ेस.
The फाइलें हैं usually वितरित to the वेब `` as is '' or with minimal processing.
अनेक अंतरजाल सेवा providers ( isps ) offer इस service फ़्री to subscribers.
Individuals और organizations may also obtain वेब पेज hosting इससे alternative सेवा providers.
निजी web साईट होस्टिंग is typically free, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
कारोबार वेब site होस्टिंग often रै a उच्चतर expense depending upon the आकार और प्रकार of the जालस्थल.
Single page होस्टिंग is generally sufficient लिये personal वेब pages.
a जटिल साईट काल्स for a अधिक व्यापक पैकेज कि provides डेटाबेस support और application development platforms ( e.g. पीएचपी, जावा, माणिक्य on rails, coldfusion, or ASP.NET ).
ये सुविधाएं allow customers to लिखें or install scripts लिये अनुप्रयोग जैसे forums and सामग्री प्रबन्धन.
भी, Secure sockets Layer ( एसएसएल ) is typically प्रयुक्त लिये e-commerce.
The host may भी provide an interface or कंट्रोल फलक for मैनेजिंग the Web server and installing scripts, as well as other modules and service अनुप्रयोग like e-mail.
कुछ hosts specialize in निश्चित तन्त्र or सेवाएं ( e.g. e-commerce ), जिससे are commonly प्रयुक्त by larger companies कि outsource संजाल अवसंरचना.
मैडेन NFL ( ज्ञात as जॉन Madden Football पहले 1993 ) is an American फ़ुटबॉल वीडियो खेल series विकसित by Electronic कला tiburon for ea Sports.
The खेल श्रेणी is named बाद प्रो फ़ुटबॉल हॉल of famer जॉन Madden, a well-known पूर्व सुपर कटोरी –winning coach of the Oakland हमलावरों और color commentator.
the श्रेणी is the best selling EA Sports series.
the games have consistently been a बेहतरीन seller, और has even शाखित TV shows जहाँ players compete.
among the game 's यथार्थवादी सुविधाएँ include sophisticated playbooks and खिलाड़ी आंकडे, और voice commentary कि allows खिलाड़ी to सुन the game as if it यहूद a रियल tv broadcast.
The Madden एनएफएल series रै महरूम nicknamed the NFL 's 33rd मताधिकार.
the श्रेणी थी originally conceived by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कला संस्थापक ट्रिप हॉकिन्स, जो then approached मैडेन in 1984 लिये उसके समर्थन और विशेषज्ञता.
Due to मैडेन 's insistence कि the खेल be as यथार्थवादी as संभावित, the पहला संस्करण of जॉन Madden Football was not released जबतक 1988.
The second संस्करण of the खेल was released in 1990, with सालाना versions चूंकि तब.
the series ' नाम थी changed to Madden NFL in 1993 बाद ea acquired the rights to use NFL teams और players.
despite मैडेन 's रिटायरमेंट as a प्रसारणकर्ता in 2009, he continues to lend उसके नाम और provide expertise लिये the खेल.
Cindy Lee Miller Sheehan ( born जुलाई 10, 1957 ) is an American antiwar activist whose बेटे, u.S. फौज Specialist केसी Sheehan, was मारे by enemy कार्रवाई during the इराकी युद्ध.
वो आकर्षित नेशनल और अंतरराष्ट्रीय media attention in अगस्त 2005 लिये her विस्तारित antiwar विरोध at a makeshift camp बाहर अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश 's टेक्सास ranch —a स्टैंड कि drew दोनो passionate support and angry criticism.
sheehan भागा unsuccessfully for कॉंग्रेस in 2008.
She is a गायन आलोचक of President बराक ओबामा 's विदेशी नीति.
Her संस्मरण, सलाम Mom : A Mother 's Journey through Heartache to Activism, was published in 2006.
Sheehan was the 2012 vice-presidential nominee of the सलाम and स्वतंत्रता Party.
wyclef Jeanelle Jean ( ; ; born October 17, 1969 ) Wyclef dumped इससे हैती 's Presidential Ballot – समय, अगस्त 21, 2010.
`` पहले he घोषित on अगस्त 5 कि he थी running लिये अध्यक्ष of हैती, Wyclef जां थी still listing his आयु as only 37 सालो बूढ़ा.
लकिन बाद declaring himself a presidential प्रत्याशी, the haitian-american-irish hip-hop star also decided to आइये clean और confirm कि he थी really 40. '' is a three-time ग्रैमी Award -winning haitian-american rapper, singer-songwriter, संगीतकार, रिकार्ड निर्माता, and politician.
At आयु नौ, जां स्थानांतरित to the United States साथ उसके परिवार and रै खर्च much of उसके जीवन in the देश.
He पहला प्राप्त कीर्ति as a सदस्य of the acclaimed नई जर्सी हिप hop समूह the Fugees.
on August 5, 2010, Jean दायर for candidacy in the 2010 haitian presidential चुनाव, हालांकि the Electoral आयोग subsequently ruled उसे अयोग्य to स्टैंड as he था नहीं met the requirement to have महरूम निवासी in Haiti लिये पाँच years.
wyclef Jean to appeal against Haiti election सत्ताधारी – BBC News, Aug 22, 2010.
हैती 's चुनावी आयोग कहा कि mr Jean was ineligible to स्टैंड as the Haitian संविधान requires candidates to have lived in the country for five सालो prior to an election.
the 40-year-old singer lives in the us.
Jean 's प्रयत्न at भूकंप राहत, अत्यधिक publicized in 2010 throughout हैती and the संयुक्त States, यहूद channeled through his charitable संगठन, Yéle हैती.
the दान, जिससे performed a किस्में of charitable works in Haiti between 2005 और 2010, effectively बंद in 2012.
in law, a set-off is a statutory रक्षा to the पूरे or to a portion of a अभियोक्ता 's claim.
It had no existence अंतर्गत the अंग्रेज़ी common विधि, होने created by 2 जियो. ii c. 22 लिये the राहत of insolvent कर्जदार, although set-off थी पहचाना in equity.
Such a defense could be pleaded only in respect of परस्पर debts of a definite अक्षर, और did नहीं apply to मामले in जिससे damages यहूद claimed, nor to निष्पक्ष दावा or मांगे.
by the rules of the Supreme Court ( O. xix. r. 3 ) a defendant in an कार्रवाई may set off or set up कोई right or claim by way of counterclaim विरूद्ध the दावा of a अभियोक्ता, and ऐसे set-off or counterclaim रै the वही effect as a बयान of claim in a cross-action.
the legal defense of set-off ( ऊपर ) थी originally introduced to prevent the unfair situation whereby a person ( `` पार्टी a '' ) जो owed धन to another ( `` पार्टी b '' ) could be भेजा to कर्जदार थाना, despite the fact कि Party B also owed धन to Party A.
The विधि thus allows दोनो पार्टियों to टालना भुगतान जबतक उनके संबंधित claims have been सुना in अदालत.
Upon निर्णय, both दावा हैं बुझे and replaced by a सिंगल net योग owing ( e.g. if Party A owes पार्टी b 100 and Party b owes Party a 105, the दो रकम हैं set off and replaced साथ a सिंगल दायित्व of 5 from पार्टी b to पार्टी a ).
set-off can also be incorporated by contractual अनुबंध so that, where a पार्टी मूलभूत, the परस्पर amounts owing हैं automatically set off और बुझे.
In certain jurisdictions ( सहित the UK ), set-off takes प्लेस automatically upon the insolvency of a कम्पनी.
This means that, लिये each पार्टी जिससे is both a creditor and debtor of the insolvent company, परस्पर debts हैं set-off विरूद्ध each अन्य, और तब either the bankrupt 's creditor can claim the balance in the दिवालियापन or the ट्रस्टी in bankruptcy can ask लिये the संतुलन remaining to be सशुल्क, depending on which पक्ष owed the most.
This has महरूम criticized as an undeclared सुरक्षा ब्याज कि violates the principle of परी passu.
the वैकल्पिक, where a creditor has to अदा सब इसके debts, but receive only a limited portion of the leftover moneys कि other unsecured creditors मिलेंगी, मुद्राएँ the खतरे of 'knock-on ' insolvencies.
The right to नियत off is particularly important when रिपोर्टिंग a bank 's विकिरणों to regulatory अधिकारियों.
The हालात where a bank has to रपट that it has lent a large योग to a borrower ( and is इसलिए exposed, because वहीँ is a रिस्क that the borrower might default thereby अग्रणी to the घाटा of the बैंको 's or its जमाकर्ताओं ' money ) is thus replaced ( where the bank रै लिया सुरक्षा over साझा or प्रतिभूति of the borrower ) साथ an एक्सपोज़र of the धन lent ऋण the मान of the सुरक्षा लिया.
जेनिफर joanna एनिस्टन ( born February 11, 1969 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री, film director, and producer.
एनिस्टन gained worldwide मान्यता in the 1990s for portraying रेचल ग्रीन on the टेलीविज़न sitcom मित्रों, a भूमिका which earned उसके an एमी Award, a Golden ग्लोब Award, और a स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड पुरस्कार.
एनिस्टन रै also enjoyed a कामयाब हॉलीवुड फिल्मी करियर.
She gained नाजुक acclaim for her performances in the independent films वो 's the One ( 1996 ), दफ्तर स्पेस ( 1999 ), the शुभ लड़की ( 2002 ) और मित्रों with धन ( 2006 ).
She रै था उसके greatest वाणिज्यिक successes साथ the films Bruce सर्वशक्तिमान ( 2003 ), The Break-Up ( 2006 ), Marley & me ( 2008 ), Just go with It ( 2011 ) and भयानक Bosses ( 2011 ).
एनिस्टन प्राप्त a स्टार on the Hollywood Walk of Fame on फ़रवरी 22, 2012.
a श्वेत Bengal बाघ at the ह्यूस्टन एक्वेरियम
( वीडियो )
A श्वेत tiger at Tobu Zoo, in saitama, जापानी.
the श्वेत tiger is a recessive mutant of the बंगाल बाघ, जिससे was reported in the wild इससे समय to time in असम, बंगाल, Bihar और विशेषकर from the पूर्व State of रीवा.
Conventional पीसीआई ( पीसीआई is an initialism formed from परिधीय घटक Interconnect, भाग of the PCI Local बस मानक और often shortened to बस PCI ) is a लोकल कंप्यूटर बस लिये attaching हार्डवेयर डिवाइस in a computer.
The PCI बस supports the functions मिला on a processor बस, लकिन in a मानकीकृत स्वरूप कि is स्वतंत्र of any particular प्रोसेसर.
Devices कनेक्ट to the bus appear to the processor to be कनेक्ट सीधे to the processor बस, और हैं आबंटित addresses in the processor 's पता स्पेस.
संलग्न devices can लो either the रूप of an integrated सर्किट fitted onto the मदरबोर्ड itself, पुकारा a planar यंत्र in the पीसीआई specification, or an expansion कार्ड कि fits into a स्लॉट.
the PCI Local Bus was पहला implemented in IBM PC compatibles, जहाँ it विस्थापित the संयोजन of ISA प्लस one vesa लोकल बस as the बस विन्यास.
It रै subsequently महरूम adopted for other कंप्यूटर types.
PCI and PCI-X are होने replaced by पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस, लकिन, most motherboards are स्टिल बना साथ एक or अधिक PCI slots, which हैं sufficient लिये many उपयोग.
The पीसीआई specification कवर the शारीरिक size of the बस ( including the size and अंतरण of the सर्किट फलक edge विद्युत सम्पर्क ), electrical विशेषताएँ, बस समय, और protocols.
the specification can be purchased इससे the PCI खास Interest समूह ( PCI-SIG ).
ठेठ PCI cards प्रयुक्त in PCs include : network ताश, sound cards, modems, अतिरिक्त पोर्ट such as USB or serial, tv ट्यूनर ताश and डिस्क परिरक्षक.
PCI वीडियो ताश replaced ISA and vesa cards, जबतक growing बैंडविड्थ आवश्यकताएँ outgrew the सामर्थ्य of पीसीआई ; the पसन्दीदा इंटरफ़ेस लिये वीडियो cards became अगप, और तब पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस.
PCI video ताश remain available लिये उपयोग with old pcs without अगप or पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस स्लॉट.
Many डिवाइस previously provided on PCI विस्तार cards हैं now commonly एकीकृत onto motherboards or available in universal serial बस और PCI Express versions.
Caffeine is a bitter, श्वेत crystalline xanthine एल्कलॉएड कि अधिनियमों as a stimulant ड्रग.
कैफीन is found in varying quantities in the seeds, leaves, और फल of कुछ पौधे, where it अधिनियमों as a प्राकृतिक pesticide कि paralyzes और मारता निश्चित insects feeding on the पौधे, as खूब as बढ़ाना the बदला मेमोरी of pollinators.
It is most commonly consumed by इंसानो in infusions निकाली from the बीज of the coffee संयंत्र और the leaves of the tea बुश, as खूब as इससे विभिन्न भोजन and drinks containing उत्पाद derived इससे the कोला नट.
अन्य स्त्रोत शामिल yerba maté, guarana berries, guayusa, और the yaupon होली.
in इंसानो, कैफीन acts as a central बेचैन प्रणाली उत्तेजक, temporarily warding बंद drowsiness and restoring alertness.
it is the संसार 's सबसे widely consumed psychoactive drug, लकिन unlike अनेक other psychoactive substances, it is विधिक and unregulated in nearly all भाग of the संसार.
पेय containing कैफीन, such as coffee, tea, soft पेय, और energy drinks, enjoy great लोकप्रियता.
in उत्तर अमेरिका, 90 % of वयस्कों consume caffeine रोज़.
भाग of the reason कैफीन is वर्गीकृत by the Food and ड्रग Administration as ग्रा ( generally पहचाना as सुरक्षित ) is that toxic doses ( over 10 grams ) are much उच्चतर than typically used doses ( less than 500 milligrams ).
Ordinary consumption can have low health risks, भी जब carried on लिये years – there may be a modest protective प्रभाव against कुछ रोगों, सहित parkinsons Disease, और certain प्रकार of कर्कट.
कैफीन can have दोनो positive and ऋणात्मक प्रभाव on चिंता विकार.
Some लोगों अनुभव नींद disruption if वे consume कैफीन, especially during the evening hours, लकिन others show छोटी disturbance and the प्रभाव of caffeine on sleep is highly परिवर्तनीय.
Evidence of a risk to गर्भावस्था is equivocal, लकिन कुछ अधिकारियों have concluded that दूरदर्शी advice is for pregnant women to सीमा consumption to the समतुल्य of दो cups of कॉफी प्रति दिन or कम.
the अमरीकी कॉंग्रेस of Obstetricians and Gynecologists ( ACOG ) concluded in 2010 कि caffeine खपत is सुरक्षित up to 200 mg प्रति day in pregnant महिलाओं.
कैफीन रै pressor और mild diuretic effects जब administered to लोगों जो हैं not used to it, but नियमित users develop a tolerance to this प्रभाव, and अध्ययन have generally विफल to support the आम notion that ordinary खपत contributes significantly to निर्जलीकरण.
With भारी उपयोग, सहिष्णुता develops rapidly to autonomic प्रभाव ऐसे as elevated heart रेट और मांसपेशी twitching, लकिन नहीं to the संज्ञानात्मक or arousal effects of caffeine.
the degree to which कैफीन can उपज clinically significant शारीरिक और दिमागी dependence remains a विषय of controversy in the medical literature.
A kicktail क्रूजर
A longboard is a longer रूपांतर of a स्केटबोर्ड.
it is commonly प्रयुक्त लिये cruising, downhill रेसिंग, slalom रेसिंग, sliding, and/or हस्तांतरण.
स्त्रोत outside of Wikipedia give differing estimates:
the CIA 's संसार Factbook gives the world जनसांख्यिकी as 7,021,836,029 ( July 2012 est. ) और the वितरण of धर्मों as Christian 100 % ( of जिससे Roman कैथोलिक 18.85 %, Protestant 8.15 %, परंपरागत 4.96 %, anglican 1.26 % ), Muslim 22.74 %, हिन्दू 13.8 %, बौद्ध 6.77 %, सिखों 0.35 %, Jewish 0.22 %, Baha'i 0.11 %, अन्य धर्मों 10.95 %, non-religious 9.66 %, atheists 2.01 %.
( 2010 est. ).
The Coast सीमाएँ of California span इससे हम्बोल्ट काउंटी, California दक्षिण to Santa बारबरा काउंटी.
the अन्य three coastal California पहाड़ सीमाएँ हैं the अनुप्रस्थ Ranges, Peninsular सीमाएँ and the Klamath Mountains.
physiographically, वे हैं a section of the larger Pacific Border province, which in turn are भाग of the larger प्रशांत Mountain प्रणाली physiographic division.
युनेस्को has शामिल the `` कैलिफ़ोर्निया coast सीमाएँ जीवमंडल आरक्षित `` in इसके Man and the जीवमंडल Programme of संसार Network of Biosphere Reserves since 1983.
Vehicles in उपयोग प्रति देश इससे 2001 to 2007.
it shows the significant विकास in bric.
संसार मैप of यात्री गाड़ियाँ प्रति 1000 लोगों
An automobile, autocar, मोटर car or car is a wheeled मोटर गाडी used for transporting यात्री, जिससे also carries इसके अपना engine or मोटर.
सबसे definitions of the पद specify कि ऑटोमोबाइल are designed to चलाएं primarily on roads, to have seating लिये एक to आठ people, to typically have चार पहियों, और to be constructed principally लिये the हस्तांतरण of people rather than goods.
The पद motorcar has भी been प्रयुक्त in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of electrified rail प्रणालियों to denote a car which functions as a छोटी लोकोमोटिव लकिन भी provides space for passengers and baggage.
These लोकोमोटिव cars were often used on suburban रूट by both interurban और intercity railroad प्रणालियों.
It थी अनुमानित in 2010 कि the number of ऑटोमोबाइल था risen to over 1 billion वाहनों, up इससे the 500 लाख of 1986.
the numbers हैं increasing rapidly, विशेषकर in China और इण्डिया.
जॉन fitzgerald `` जोकर '' Kennedy ( may 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963 ), often referred to by his initials jfk, was the 35th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States, सेवारत from 1961 जबतक उसके मौत in 1963.
After सैन्य सेवा as commander of the Motor torpedo नौकाएँ PT-109 और pt-59 दौरान संसार युद्ध II in the दक्षिण Pacific, कैनेडी represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional district in the u.S. House of Representatives इससे 1947 to 1953 as a डेमोक्रेट.
thereafter, he served in the U.S. सीनेट इससे 1953 जबतक 1960.
कैनेडी पराजित Vice अध्यक्ष और रिपब्लिकन candidate Richard निक्सन in the 1960 U.S. presidential चुनाव.
At 43 years of आयु, he is the youngest to have महरूम निर्वाचित to the दफ्तर, the second-youngest अध्यक्ष ( बाद थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट ), and the पहला person born in the 20th century to serve as अध्यक्ष.
a Catholic, कैनेडी is the only non- प्रोटोस्टेंट अध्यक्ष, and is the only president to have जीती a Pulitzer Prize.
कार्यक्रम during his प्रेसिडेंसी शामिल the खाड़ी of सूअर Invasion, the Cuban Missile संकट, the भवन of the बर्लिन वॉल, the स्पेस रेस, the African-American सिविल Rights गति, और जल्दी stages of the वियतनाम युद्ध.
therein, Kennedy increased the number of सैन्य advisers, खास आपरेशन शक्तियां, and helicopters in an प्रयत्न to कोर the spread of साम्यवादी in South East Asia.
the Kennedy administration अपनाया the नीति of the Strategic हैमलेट कार्यक्रम which थी implemented by the दक्षिण Vietnamese सरकारी.
it शामिल certain forced relocation, village internment, और पृथक्करण of rural दक्षिण वियतनामी इससे the उत्तरी और southern communist insurgents.
Kennedy थी assassinated on November 22, 1963 in Dallas, Texas.
Lee Harvey Oswald थी charged with the अपराधों, लकिन he was शॉट and मारे by Jack Ruby two दिनों later, पहले a विचारण could लो प्लेस.
the एफबीआई और the वारेन Commission officially concluded कि ओसवाल्ड was the लोन हत्यारे.
However, the संयुक्त राज्य House Select Committee on assassinations ( HSCA ) concluded कि those investigations were flawed and कि कैनेडी थी संभवतः assassinated as the result of a षड्यंत्र.
However, एबीसी न्यूज in उनके छानबीन, the कैनेडी हत्या : परे षड्यंत्र, पुष्टि the निष्कर्षों of the वारेन आयोग ; having concluded ओसवाल्ड acted अलोन.
Kennedy 's controversial Department of Defense tfx fighter bomber कार्यक्रम led to a congressional छानबीन that lasted from 1963 to 1970.
Since the 1960s सूचना concerning कैनेडी 's निजी जीवन रै आइये to light.
Details of कैनेडी 's स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं in जिससे he struggled have become better ज्ञात, विशेषकर चूंकि the 1990s.
Although initially kept secret इससे the general public, रिपोर्ट्स of Kennedy 's philandering have garnered much दबायें.
Kennedy ranks highly in public राय दरजा of U.S. राष्ट्रपतियों.
a Siemens MXL fire सचेतक control फलक ( top ) and graphic annunciator ( bottom ) for Potomac हॉल, at जेम्स मैडिसन विश्वविद्यालयों.
A सतर्क VM-1 fire सचेतक कंट्रोल unit ( FACU ) / autonomous control ईकाई ( ACU ) with एकीकृत आवाज़ निकासी and आग सेनानी telephone प्रणाली.
manufactured by एडवर्ड्स, a utc f & s कम्पनी
A आग सचेतक Control फलक ( FACP ), or आग सचेतक Control ईकाई ( FACU ), is the controlling घटक of a आग सचेतक प्रणाली.
The फलक receives सूचना इससे पर्यावरणीय sensors designed to detect परिवर्तन संबद्ध with आग, मॉनीटर उनके operational अखंडता और provides लिये स्वचालित control of equipment, और हस्तांतरण of सूचना जरुरी to prepare the facility for आग आधारित on a predetermined sequence.
the फलक may भी सप्लाई विद्युत energy to operate any संबद्ध sensor, कंट्रोल, transmitter, or रिले.
There are four basic types of panels : coded panels, conventional panels, addressable panels, और multiplex प्रणालियों.
This is a list of the पहला म्यूज़िक videos broadcast on एमटीवी 's first दिन, August 1, 1981.
MTV 's पहला day on the air थी rebroadcast on VH1 क्लासिक in 2006 और अपलोड onto YouTube in 2010 ( हालांकि only the पहला four घंटों यहूद प्रामाणिक ; the बाकी were संपादित vh1 rebroadcasts ).
भण्डारनायके अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport ( bia ) ( भी known as katunayake International Airport और Colombo अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र ) is one of the दो international एयरपोर्ट सेवारत the नगर of कोलोन, the अन्य is Ratmalana अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport.
Mattala Rajapaksa अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport located in दक्षिणी नगर of hambantota is the other अंतरराष्ट्रीय airport in श्री लंका.
Bandaranaike अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र is स्तिथ in katunayake, 22 miles ( 35 km ) उत्तर of कोलोन.
It is administered by विमानक्षेत्र and विमानन Services ( श्री Lanka ) ltd.
it is the हब of श्रीलंकन एयरलाइंस, the नेशनल वाहक of Sri Lanka, और Mihin Lanka, the budget airline of Sri Lanka.
Black swan is a 2010 अमरीकी मनोवैज्ञानिक थ्रिलर and horror फिल्मी निर्देशित by डैरेन aronofsky and अभिनीत नताली पोर्टमैन, विंसेंट cassel, and mila kunis.
the प्लाट revolves around a production of tchaikovsky 's swan Lake बैले by a prestigious नई यॉर्क नगर company.
the production requires a नर्तकी to खेल the निर्दोष और नाजुक श्वेत swan, लिये which the वचनबद्ध नर्तकी Nina ( Portman ) is a पूर्ण अनुरूप, as well as the dark and कामुक ब्लैक swan, which हैं qualities embodied by the नई arrival Lily ( Kunis ).
Nina is overwhelmed by a feeling of immense दबाव when she पाता herself स्पर्धा for the भाग, causing her to lose उसके tenuous grip on reality और descend into a living nightmare.
Aronofsky conceived the premise by connecting उसके viewings of a उत्पादन of swan झील with an unrealized screenplay about understudies और the notion of being haunted by a दोगुना, similar to the folklore surrounding doppelgängers.
aronofsky cites fyodor Dostoyevsky 's `` The दोगुना `` as another प्रेरणा लिये the फिल्मी.
The निदेशक भी considered Black Swan a companion टुकड़ा to उसके 2008 film the पहलवान, साथ दोनो films involving demanding प्रदर्शन लिये different kinds of art.
he और Portman first discussed the प्रोजेक्ट in 2000, और बाद a brief अनुलग्नक to सार्वभौमिक Studios, Black swan थी produced in New यॉर्क नगर in 2009 by फॉक्स searchlight तस्वीरें.
Portman और kunis प्रशिक्षित in ballet लिये अनेक months prior to फिल्मांकन, और notable आंकड़े इससे the ballet world helped साथ film उत्पादन to shape the ballet presentation.
The फिल्मी premiered as the खोलने film for the 67th वेनिस International फिल्मी Festival on September 1, 2010.
it था a सीमित release in the संयुक्त राज्य starting दिसम्बर 3, 2010 और खोली nationwide on दिसम्बर 17.
Black Swan प्राप्त नाजुक praise upon its release, particularly लिये पोर्टमैन 's प्रदर्शन और aronofsky 's direction, और was a significant बक्सा office कामयाबी, grossing $ 329 लाख विश्वव्यापी.
the film received पाँच Academy Award nominations and पोर्टमैन won the बेहतरीन Actress award लिये the फिल्मी, as खूब as अनेक अन्य बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री awards in अनेक guilds और festivals, जबकि aronofsky was मनोनीत लिये Best निदेशक.
in जोड, the film itself प्राप्त a नामांकन लिये बेहतरीन Picture.
The world’s पहला ice-calorimeter, प्रयुक्त in the winter of 1782-83, by एंटोनी Lavoisier और Pierre-Simon लाप्लास, to determine the heat शामिल in various रासायनिक परिवर्तन ; calculations जिससे यहूद आधारित on Joseph Black ’s prior डिस्कवरी of अदृश्य ऊष्मा.
ये experiments चिह्नित the न्यास of thermochemistry.
A calorimeter ( इससे Latin calor, अर्थ ऊष्मा ) is an ऑब्जेक्ट प्रयुक्त लिये calorimetry, or the process of measuring the heat of रासायनिक प्रतिक्रियाएँ or physical changes as खूब as ऊष्मा capacity.
अवकल स्कैनिंग calorimeters, समतापी microcalorimeters, titration calorimeters और accelerated रेट calorimeters हैं among the most आम types.
a सरल ऊष्मामापी बस consists of a थर्मामीटर attached to a मेटल container पूरा of जल निलंबित above a combustion chamber.
to find the enthalpy बदलें प्रति mole of a पदार्थ A in a reaction between two substances a and b, the substances are added to a ऊष्मामापी और the initial and फाइनल temperatures ( before the प्रतिक्रिया प्रारंभ और बाद it रै finished ) are विख्यात.
multiplying the तापमान बदलें by the द्रव्यमान and विशिष्ट heat capacities of the substances देता a मान लिये the उर्जा given off or अवशोषित during the प्रतिक्रिया.
dividing the energy बदलें by कैसा अनेक औज़ार of A were present देता its enthalpy change of प्रतिक्रिया.
This method is प्रयुक्त primarily in अकादमिक शिक्षण as it describes the सिद्धान्त of कैलोरीमिति.
it करता नहीं खाता लिये the ऊष्मा घाटा through the container or the heat क्षमता of the thermometer और संग्राहक itself.
In addition, the ऑब्जेक्ट placed inside the calorimeter shows that the वस्तुएँ transferred उनके ऊष्मा to the ऊष्मामापी and into the द्रव, और the ऊष्मा absorbed by the calorimeter and the द्रव is equal to the ऊष्मा given बंद by the metals.
a pair of ग्रीन flip-flops
Flip-flops ( भी पुकारा zōri, thongs, jandals, or a किस्में of अन्य names throughout the world ) हैं a type of open-toed चन्दन typically worn in कैज़ुअल situations, such as outside or at the बीच.
वे consist of a flat एकमात्र आयोजित loosely on the foot by a Y-shaped strap कि गुजरता between the पहला और second toes और around either side of the foot.
वे may also be held to the पैर साथ a सिंगल डोरी over the front of the पैर rather than a thong.
the name `` flip-flop '' originated because of the ध्वनि कि is made by slapping between the sole of the foot and the मंजिल जब walking.
This स्टाइल of जूते has been worn by the लोगों of अनेक cultures throughout the संसार, originating as early as the प्राचीन उन्होंने in 4,000 b.c.
the modern flip-flop उतरता from the Japanese zōri, which became popular बाद संसार War II when सैनिको returning to the संयुक्त राज्य brought उन्हें back.
वे became लोकप्रिय in कैज़ुअल settings during the 1960s, 1990s, और 2000s, और कुछ varieties have भी मिला उनके रास्ता into more औपचारिक पहनावा, despite आलोचना.
the उपयोग of flip-flops can परिणाम in अनेक pains और चोटों, including ankle sprains और broken bones.
Some individuals who चलना for long अवधि report pain in the फीट, ankles, और lower legs.
The कमी of support provided by flip-flops प्रायः results in over-pronation चोटों, caused by the पैर slipping inwards further than normal.
इस can सीसे to flat फीट और tendonitis.
अन्य injuries कि may परिणाम are due to the जूते 's open-toed nature, such as stubbed toes, कटौती, and bruises.
डॉक्टर सुझाएँ खरीदना pricier चप्पल with thick-cushioned soles, as well as those कि have a डोरी कि is नहीं canvas और कि आता वापस almost to the टखने.
the स्वामी of hanjin ओसाका, देखी यहाँ transiting the पनामा Canal in 2008, घोषित general औसत following an विस्फोट in the जलयान 's engine रूम on.
The law of सामान्य औसत is a legal principle of मेरीटाइम law according to जिससे all parties in a sea venture proportionally share कोई losses resulting इससे a voluntary बलिदान of भाग of the ship or कार्गो to सहेजें the whole in an आपात.
in the exigencies of hazards faced at समुद्र, crew members प्रायः have अनमोल छोटी समय in जिससे to determine precisely whose कार्गो वे हैं jettisoning.
यूँ, to avoid quarrelling कि could बर्बाद valuable time, वहीँ arose the निष्पक्ष अभ्यास whereby all the merchants जिनकी cargo उतरा सकुशल would be पुकारा on to contribute a portion, based upon a share or प्रतिशत, to the व्यापारी or merchants जिनकी goods था been tossed overboard to avert निकट peril.
जबकि सामान्य औसत traces इसके origins in प्राचीन maritime विधि, स्टिल it remains भाग of the admiralty विधि of most देशों.
The पहला codification of सामान्य average थी the यॉर्क Antwerp नियम of 1890.
American कंपनियाँ स्वीकृत it in 1949.
सामान्य औसत requires तीन elements जिससे are clearly stated by mr. इंसाफ grier in बर्नार्ड v. आदमs:
`` 1st.
A आम खतरे : a danger in जिससे vessel, कार्गो और crew सब participate ; a danger निकट and जाहिर 'inevitable, ' मगर by voluntarily रूष्ट the घाटा of a portion of the whole to सहेजें the शेष. ''
`` 2nd. There must be a voluntary jettison, jactus, or casting away, of कुछ portion of the joint concern for the purpose of avoiding this imminent peril, periculi imminentis evitandi causa, or, in other शब्द, a transfer of the peril इससे the पूरे to a particular portion of the पूरे. ''
`` 3rd.
इस attempt to avoid the निकट आम peril जरूर be कामयाब ''.
उदाहरण Polish कॉल for टीकाकरण विरूद्ध डिप्थीरिया और Tetanus.
A vaccination अनुसूची is a श्रेणी of vaccinations, including the समय of सब doses, जिससे may be either अनुशंसित or compulsory, depending on the देश of residence.
a टीका is an antigenic preparation प्रयुक्त to उपज active immunity to a बीमारी, in अनुक्रम to prevent or reduce the प्रभाव of संक्रमण by any प्राकृतिक or `` wild '' pathogen.
Many टीके require multiple doses लिये अधिकतम effectiveness, either to उपज sufficient आरंभिक प्रतिरक्षा जवाब or to बूस्ट जवाब कि fades over time.
लिये example, tetanus टीका boosters are often recommended प्रत्येक 10 years.
Vaccine schedules हैं विकसित by governmental agencies or physicians समूह to achieve अधिकतम effectiveness using required और अनुशंसित टीके for a locality जबकि महती the क्रमांक of health परवाह प्रणाली interactions.
Over the पास्ट two दशकों, the recommended टीकाकरण अनुसूची रै grown rapidly और become अधिक जटिल as many नई vaccines have been विकसित.
कुछ vaccines हैं recommended only in निश्चित क्षेत्रों ( countries, subnational क्षेत्रों, or at-risk populations ) जहाँ a बीमारी is आम.
लिये उदाहरण, yellow fever टीकाकरण is on the दिनचर्या टीका अनुसूची of French guiana, is अनुशंसित in certain regions of Brazil but in the United राज्य is only दिए to travelers heading to देशों साथ a इतिहास of the बीमारी.
in विकासशील countries, टीका सुझाव also लो into खाता the स्तर of health परवाह अभिगम, the cost of टीके and issues साथ टीका उपलब्धता और भंडार.
Sample vaccinations schedules discussed by the संसार स्वास्थ्य संगठन show a विकसित देश using a अनुसूची जिससे extends over the पहला पाँच years of a child 's जीवन और उपयोग टीके जिससे लागत over $ 700 including प्रशासन costs while a विकासशील देश उपयोग a अनुसूची providing vaccines in the पहला 9 months of जीवन और costing only $ 25.
This difference is due to the निम्नतर लागत of स्वास्थ्य care, the निम्नतर लागत of many vaccines provided to विकासशील nations, और that अधिक expensive vaccines, often for less common रोगों, हैं नहीं utilized.
In 1900, the smallpox vaccine was the तभी एक administered to children.
By the जल्दी 1950s, children routinely प्राप्त four vaccines, लिये सुरक्षा against ( diphtheria, pertussis, टेटनस, पोलियो, और smallpox ), और as many as पाँच shots by two सालो of age.
चूंकि the mid-1980s, अनेक vaccines have महरूम added to the अनुसूची.
, the us centers लिये बीमारी कंट्रोल और Prevention ( CDC ) अभी recommends टीकाकरण against at तनिक चौदह रोगों.
By दो सालो of आयु, u.S. children प्राप्त as अनेक as 24 vaccine injections, और might प्राप्त up to five shots दौरान एक visit to the doctor.
the उपयोग of संयोजन vaccine उत्पाद means that,, the संयुक्त Kingdom 's immunization कार्यक्रम consists of 10 injections by the आयु of दो, बल्कि than 25 if टीकाकरण for प्रत्येक बीमारी थी given as a separate इंजेक्शन.
Two revellers नृत्य in the streets.
the रूप of dancing is called `` wining '' ( घुमावदार ) सुनाया wine-ing
a म्यूज़िक Truck entertains the crowd on the streets.
Trucks हैं an अभिन्न भाग of the गली परेड, featuring live प्रदर्शन or deejays
The त्रिनिदाद और टोबैगो Carnival is an annual event held on the सोमवार और मंगलवार before राख बुधवार, और is खूब ज्ञात लिये participant 's रंगीन वेशभूषा and exuberant celebrations.
Carnival in Trinidad and टोबैगो is the सबसे significant event on the आइलैंड्स ' cultural और tourism calendar, साथ numerous cultural कार्यक्रम running in the lead up to the गली parade on कार्निवल सोमवार and मंगलवार.
it is कहा कि if the आइलैंडर्स हैं not celebrating it, तब they हैं तैयारी for it, while reminiscing about the past साल 's पर्व.
the दिल of the musical जश्न has been कैलिप्सो ; recently सोका रै replaced कैलिप्सो as the सबसे celebrated प्रकार of music.
वेशभूषा, stickfighting और limbo competitions हैं भी महत्वपूर्ण components of the पर्व.
कार्निवल as it is मनाये in Trinidad और Tobago is भी celebrated in cities विश्वव्यापी.
ये सहित Toronto 's caribana, Miami 's मियामी कार्निवल, ह्यूस्टन carifest, लंदन 's नॉटिंग हिल Carnival as खूब as नई यॉर्क City 's Labor दिन कार्निवल to नाम a few.
Carnival was created when वेस्ट अफ़्रीकी slaves mimicked उनके French स्वामी जो where known for their lavish costumes balls.
हराम to partake in ये festivities and confined to their quarters, slaves संयुक्त elements इससे their अपना संस्कृतियों to उनके निपुण 's fete.
Hence the creation of वर्ण such as jab jab or jab Molassie ( शैतानों ), मध्यरात्रि लुटेरों, imps, Lagahroo, soucouyant, La diablesse और राक्षसों.
साथ the abolition of गुलामी in 1838, freed africans took their संस्करण of कार्निवल to the streets through अभिव्यक्ति of ड्रम, riddim भाग जैसे tamboo बाँसुरी and as प्रत्येक new अप्रवासी जनसांख्यिकी डाला त्रिनिदाद, कार्निवल evolved into कया we जान आज.
The नगर of शिकागो, Illinois held a nonpartisan mayoral चुनाव on Tuesday, February 22, 2011.
लाज़िम Mayor Richard M. डाले, a सदस्य of the Democratic Party जो था महरूम in office चूंकि 1989, did नहीं तलाश a सातवाँ पद as महापौर.
Candidates needed to collect 12,500 याचिका हस्ताक्षर by नवम्बर 22, 2010 to qualify for a प्लेस on the ballot.
April 5, 2011 थी scheduled to be a runoff चुनाव तिथि if no प्रत्याशी received an निरपेक्ष majority.
Rahm emanuel won the race लिये mayor साथ more than 55 % of the vote.
He थी inaugurated on May 16, 2011.
`` उत्तेजित up kicks '' is a सोंग by अमरीकी इंडी पॉप बैंड Foster the People.
it was released as the group 's डेब्यू सिंगल in सितंबर 2010, and the following साल थी शामिल on their ep फोस्टर the People और उनके debut एल्बम torches.
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' became the समूह 's breakthrough hit और was one of the most लोकप्रिय गीतों of 2011.
The song was written और recorded by frontman चिह्नित फोस्टर जबकि he was working as a वाणिज्यिक झंकार writer.
चिहृ with the upbeat musical संयोजन, the lyrics describe the homicidal विचार of a troubled युवावस्था.
the track प्राप्त considerable ध्यान बाद it थी posted online in 2010 as a फ़्री download, और it helped the group गार्नर a multi-album रिकार्ड deal साथ Columbia रिकॉर्ड imprint startime अंतरराष्ट्रीय.
`` Pumped up kicks '' proved to be a स्लीपर hit ; in 2011, बाद receiving significant airplay on modern चट्टान स्टेशन, the सोंग crossed-over onto समकालीन hit radio stations.
the सोंग खर्च eight consecutive weeks at क्रमांक three on the Billboard hot 100 chart in the United राज्य, making it the first Billboard वैकल्पिक Songs number-one single to क्रैक the u.S. शीर्ष 5 चूंकि Kings of Leon 's `` Use somebody `` in 2009.
the सोंग was widely praised by आलोचकों, and it रै been licensed for use in a चौड़ी range of popular media since इसके रिलीज.
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' प्राप्त a ग्रैमी Award नामांकन लिये बेहतरीन Pop duo/group प्रदर्शन.
the राज्य मेला of वेस्ट वर्जिनिया is an सालाना राज्य fair लिये वेस्ट वर्जिनिया.
it is आयोजित annually in mid-august on the राज्य Fairgrounds in fairlea, निकट Lewisburg, वेस्ट वर्जिनिया in the southeastern part of the state.
The राज्य fairgrounds consists of a large open फ़ील्ड लिये carnivals और exhibitions, a घोड़ा track, grandstands, and several प्रदर्शनी buildings.
Free पार्किंग is provided सटा to the fairgrounds और, until 2006, फ़्री camping थी also available in a large फ़ील्ड with running-water toilets and showers, but no hookups.
Campers हैं अभी चार्ज a छोटी शुल्क.
The श्वेत House, the अध्यक्ष 's official निवास और center of the प्रशासन
अंतर्गत the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान, the President of the United राज्य is the head of state और सिर of सरकारी of the United States.
As मुख्य of the कार्यपालिका branch और सिर of the संघीय सरकारी as a पूरे, the प्रेसिडेंसी is the highest राजनैतिक office in the United States by influence and मान्यता.
The अध्यक्ष is भी the commander-in-chief of the संयुक्त राज्य हथियारबंद Forces.
the अध्यक्ष is indirectly निर्वाचित to a four-year term by an चुनावी कॉलेज ( or by the हाउस of Representatives should the Electoral College fail to पुरस्कार an absolute majority of मत to कोई व्यक्ति ).
चूंकि the अनुसमर्थन of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States संविधान in 1951, no person may be निर्वाचित President more than twice, and no एक जो has परोसा अधिक than दो सालो of a पद to जिससे someone else was elected may be निर्वाचित more than once.
Upon the death, इस्तीफा, or हटाना इससे office of an incumbent अध्यक्ष, the वाइस अध्यक्ष assumes the office.
The President जरूर be at तनिक 35 सालो of आयु and a `` प्राकृतिक born '' नागरिक of the United States.
इस list includes only those persons who were sworn into office as अध्यक्ष following the ratification of the United States Constitution, which took प्रभाव on कूच 4, 1789.
लिये American leaders before this अनुसमर्थन, देखिए अध्यक्ष of the Continental कॉंग्रेस.
The सूची करता not शामिल any एक्टिंग Presidents अंतर्गत the twenty-fifth amendment to the United States संविधान.
There have been 43 लोगों sworn into दफ्तर, and 44 presidencies, as ग्रोवर क्लीवलैंड परोसा दो non-consecutive शर्तें and is गिने chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th अध्यक्ष.
Of the individuals elected as president, चार died in दफ्तर of प्राकृतिक causes ( William हेनरी हैरिसन, zachary टेलर, वारेन G. हार्डिंग, और फ्रैंकलिन D. Roosevelt ), four were assassinated ( Abraham lincoln, जेम्स A. गारफ़ील्ड, विलियम mckinley, और जॉन F. Kennedy ) और one resigned ( रिचर्ड Nixon ).
जार्ज वॉशिंगटन, the first president, थी inaugurated in 1789 बाद a सर्वसम्मत vote of the चुनावी कॉलेज.
William हेनरी Harrison खर्च the shortest समय in दफ्तर with 32 days in 1841, और फ्रैंकलिन D. Roosevelt spent the longest साथ over बारह सालो, लकिन died shortly into his चौथी पद in 1945.
he is the तभी अध्यक्ष to serve अधिक than two शर्तें, और a संवैधानिक amendment, affecting presidents बाद Harry ट्रूमैन, was passed to सीमा the number of टाइम्स an individual can be निर्वाचित president.
Andrew Jackson, the सातवाँ president, थी the पहला to be निर्वाचित by men of all वर्ग in 1828 बाद most कानून barring non-land-owners इससे मतदान यहूद repealed.
वारेन Harding थी the पहला elected बाद महिलाओं gained मतदान अधिकारों in 1920.
इतिहास रिकॉर्ड चार presidents – जॉन q एडम्स, Rutherford B. हेज़, बेंजामिन Harrison और जार्ज W. बुश – who खोया the popular vote लकिन assumed दफ्तर.
John F. कैनेडी रै महरूम the तभी अध्यक्ष of रोमन कैथोलिक faith, and the वर्तमान अध्यक्ष, Barack ओबामा, is the first अध्यक्ष of African descent.
`` लोम्बार्डी Trophy '' redirects here.
For the पुरस्कार awarded annually to the best college football lineman or linebacker, देखिए लोम्बार्डी पुरस्कार.
The विंस लोम्बार्डी ट्रॉफी is the ट्रॉफी awarded each साल to the winning टोली of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग 's चैंपियनशिप game, the सुपर Bowl.
the ट्रॉफी is नामित in सम्मान of legendary एनएफएल coach विंस लोम्बार्डी.
This is a list of टेबल of the verified oldest people in the संसार in ordinal rank, ऐसे as oldest person or oldest man.
in ये टेबल, a supercentenarian is माना 'verified ' if उसके or उसके अर्जी has महरूम validated by an अंतरराष्ट्रीय देह that specifically deals in आयु शोध, ऐसे as the जराविद्या शोध समूह ( grg ) or गिनीज World रिकॉर्ड.
the longest unambiguously प्रलेखित इंसान जीवनकाल is कि of jeanne calment of फ़्रांस ( 1875–1997 ), who died at आयु 122 सालो, 164 days.
She met Vincent वैन Gogh जब she was 12 or 13.
इस led to news मीडिया ध्यान in 1985, बाद Calment turned 110.
subsequent investigation मिला documentation for calment 's आयु, beyond कोई reasonable सवाल, in the रिकॉर्ड of her देशी नगर, arles, France.
More प्रमाण of Calment 's lifespan has been produced than लिये कोई अन्य supercentenarian ; her मामला serves as an archetype in the methodology for verifying the ages of the world 's oldest लोगों.
the longest undisputed जीवनकाल लिये male supercentenarians is कि of jiroemon किमुरा, who currently lives in जापानी और is आयु as of.
चूंकि the मौत of 115-year old Dina manfredini of the संयुक्त राज्य, on 17 दिसम्बर 2012, Kimura, born 19 अप्रैल 1897, is the oldest living person in the संसार whose आयु can be documented.
he has also been the oldest living man since the death of 114-year old वाल्टर Breuning on 14 April 2011.
चूंकि the मौत of 115-year old Koto okubo of जापानी on 12 जनवरी 2013, the oldest living woman रै महरूम -year-old Misao okawa, भी from Japan, born on 5 कूच 1898.
the लोगों 's अदालत is an अमरीकी arbitration-based वास्तविकता अदालत दिखाएँ, फिलहाल presided over by रिटायर्ड फ्लोरिडा State सर्किट अदालत न्यायधीश मर्लिन Milian, in which small दावा disputes are handled.
the People 's अदालत is the पहला court show to उपयोग बाइंडिंग arbitration, introducing the format into the विधा in 1981.
the प्रणाली has been duplicated by most of the दिखाएँ 's successors in the judicial genre.
Moreover, the People 's अदालत is the first popular, long-running वास्तविकता in the न्यायिक genre.
it was preceded only by a few short-lived हकीकत in the genre ; ये short-lived पूर्ववर्तियों were only loosely सम्बन्धित to न्यायिक proceedings, मगर for एक : पैरोल ( 1959 ) took फुटेज इससे real-life courtrooms holding विधिक कार्यवाही.
Prior to The लोगों 's अदालत, the vast बहुमत of TV courtroom shows प्रयुक्त अभिनेताओं, और बनाई or fictional cases ( as किया रेडियो पहले कि ).
Among examples of ये प्रकार of court shows शामिल प्रसिद्ध जूरी ट्रायल and Your Witness.
The लोगों 's Court रै था दो चिहृ जीवनदान.
The दिखाएँ 's पहला life थी presided over solely by पूर्व Los एंजिल्स County Superior अदालत न्यायधीश जोसेफ wapner.
उसके कार्यकाल lasted from the दिखाएँ 's डेब्यू on September 14, 1981, जबतक May 21, 1993, when the दिखाएँ थी रद्द due to low ratings.
This बाएँ the दिखाएँ साथ a कुल of 2,484 1⁄2-hour episodes और 12 सीज़न.
The show थी taped in लॉस Angeles during its पहला life.
After होने cancelled, reruns aired जबतक September 9, 1994.
On September 8, 1997, after होने out of उत्पादन for four सालो, The लोगों 's अदालत थी revived for a second life in first-run syndication as a 60-minute कार्यक्रम.
पूर्व वकील और महापौर of नई York ed Koch was चुनी as arbiter, जिससे he maintained लिये 2 seasons इससे the 1997–98 ऋतु through the 1998–99 ऋतु ( the उपस्थित जीवन 's 2nd season और overall दिखाएँ 's 14th ).
By the 1999–00 ऋतु, husband of Judith sheindlin ( जो presides over Judge जुडी ) and former नई यॉर्क State Supreme Court Judge जेरी sheindlin succeeded koch.
sheindlin lasted एक और a half सीज़न as he थी replaced towards the समाप्त of the 2000–01 ऋतु ( present life 's 4th ऋतु and overall show 's 17th ).
शुरूआत in spring 2001, Florida न्यायधीश मर्लिन Milian took over the People 's अदालत and रै presided over the दिखाएँ ever चूंकि.
Once Milian completes the 2012–13 season, वो will have served as longest arbiter over the series साथ 12 और a हाफ seasons.
as of the उपस्थित, however, her सालो on the program टाई wapner at 12 सीज़न.
in the 2009-10 television ऋतु, the People 's न्यायालयों 2nd/present जीवन outlasted इसके पहला जब it पहुँचे 13 सीज़न.
While the show taped in New यॉर्क नगर for the पहला 15 seasons of its दूसरी जीवन, it अभी टेपों in stamford, कनेक्टिकट as of the 2012-13 season.
On सितंबर 3, 2012, the लोगों 's अदालत 's 2nd/present जीवन entered इसके 16th ऋतु ( 28th overall season ).
साथ 28 total seasons, the लोगों 's Court ranks as the 2nd longest-running courtroom कार्यक्रम पीछे the जारी Divorce अदालत at 33 seasons ( इससे इसके 3 संयुक्त lives ).
यूटा ( or ) ( Arapaho : wo'tééneihí ' ) is a state in the पश्चिमी United राज्य.
It became the 45th state admitted to the Union on January 4, 1896.
यूटा is the 13th-largest, the 34th-most populous, and the 10th-least-densely populated of the 50 United States.
Approximately 80 % of यूटा 's 2,817,222 लोगों सजीव साथ the wasatch सामने, centering on नमक झील नगर, leaving vast expanses of the state nearly uninhabited और making the population the छठे सबसे urbanized in the U.S. Utah is bordered by Colorado on the ईस्ट, व्योमिंग on the पूर्वोत्तर, idaho on the उत्तर, Arizona on the दक्षिण, and Nevada on the वेस्ट.
It also touches a corner of नई मैक्सिको on the southeast.
Utah is the most religiously समरूप state in the संघ.
Approximately 63 % of Utahns are reported to be सदस्यों of the गिरिजाघर of यीशु मसीह of Latter-day संतो or lds ( Mormons ), जिससे greatly प्रभाव यूटा संस्कृति और रोज़ जीवन.
the संसार headquarters of the गिरिजाघर of Jesus Christ of latter-day Saints ( LDS गिरिजाघर ) is स्तिथ in यूटा 's state capital.
The राज्य is a बीच of परिवहन, education, सूचना technology और शोध, सरकारी सेवाएं, खनन, और a major tourist गंतव्य लिये बाहरी मनोरंजन.
According to the U.S. Census Bureau 's population estimates, Utah is the पांचवां fastest-growing राज्य in the संयुक्त States as of 2012.
st. George, थी the fastest–growing महानगर क्षेत्रफल in the संयुक्त States इससे 2000 to 2005.
a 2012 gallup national सर्वेक्षण मिला Utah overall to be the `` best राज्य to सजीव in '' आधारित on 13 forward-looking माप सहित various economic, lifestyle, और health-related आउटलुक metrics.
coldwater is a छोटी कस्बा in Tate काउंटी, मिसिसिपी.
it is in the Memphis Metropolitan Area.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 1,674 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
the मुश्किल palate is a thin आड़ा bony थाली of the skull, located in the roof of the mouth.
it spans the मेहराब formed by the अपर teeth.
it is formed by the palatine प्रक्रम of the maxilla और आड़ा थाली of palatine अस्थि.
it फ़ॉर्म a विभाजन between the nasal passages and the मुँह.
Also on the अग्रवर्ती portion of the छत of the hard palate is the rugae जिससे हैं the irregular ridges in the mucous झिल्ली कि सहायता सुकर the गति of खाना backwards towards the pharynx.
This विभाजन is continued deeper into the mouth by a मांसल extension पुकारा the नरम palate.
Complete set of scrolls, constituting the संपूर्ण tanakh.
the tanakh (, or ; भी Tenakh, Tenak, Tanach ) is a नाम used in judaism लिये the canon of the यहूदी बाइबल.
the tanakh is also ज्ञात as the masoretic टेक्स्ट or the miqra.
the नाम is an acronym formed from the आरंभिक Hebrew letters of the Masoretic Text 's three परंपरागत subdivisions : The तोरा ( `` Teaching '', also known as the पाँच Books of Moses ), nevi'im ( `` नबियों '' ) and Ketuvim ( `` कृतियाँ '' ) —hence tanakh.
The name `` miqra '' ( מקרא ), अर्थ `` that which is पढ़ा '', is an वैकल्पिक Hebrew term लिये the Tanakh.
the books of the tanakh were relayed with an accompanying oral परंपरा passed on by प्रत्येक generation, पुकारा the मौखिक तोरा.
गम्भीरता checkpoint in जर्मनी
ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत the influence ( dui ), ड्राइविंग while intoxicated ( dwi ), drunken ड्राइविंग, नशे ड्राइविंग, drink ड्राइविंग, ऑपरेटिंग अंतर्गत the influence, drinking and driving, or impaired ड्राइविंग is the अपराधों of driving a motor गाडी साथ रक्त levels of दारू in excess of a विधिक सीमा ( `` रक्त Alcohol Content '', or `` bac '' ).
समान regulations cover ड्राइविंग or operating निश्चित types of machinery while प्रभावित by drinking दारू or लेने अन्य drugs, including, but नहीं सीमित to नुस्खा drugs.
This is a दण्ड ठोकर in सबसे राष्ट्र.
convictions do नहीं necessarily involve वास्तविक driving of the vehicle.
In most jurisdictions a measurement such as a blood alcohol सामग्री ( BAC ) in excess of a विशिष्ट threshold level, such as 0.05 % or 0.08 % defines the offense, साथ no need to prove पुतलियों or being अंतर्गत the influence of alcohol.
in some jurisdictions, वहीँ is an क्रोधित श्रेणी of the ठोकर at a higher level e.g. 0.12 %.
in सबसे countries, anyone who is convicted of injuring or हत्या किसी जबकि under the influence of दारू or दवाएँ can be heavily fined, as in फ़्रांस, in जोड to being दिए a lengthy थाना वाक्य.
कुछ jobs have उनके अपना rules और bac हद, लिये उदाहरण वाणिज्यिक पायलट, और the संघीय रेलरोड प्रशासन in the United राज्य has a 0.04 % सीमा लिये train क्रू.
कुछ jurisdictions have multiple levels of BAC ; लिये example, the state of कैलिफ़ोर्निया रै a 0.08 % bac सीमा, which is lowered to 0.04 % if the operator holds a वाणिज्यिक ड्राइवर 's license.
the कैलिफ़ोर्निया BAC सीमा is 0.01 % for those younger than 21 years of age और those on probation लिये a previous DUI conviction.
Some विशाल corporations have उनके अपना नियम ; Union Pacific Railroad रै उनके अपना BAC सीमा of 0.02 % कि, if violated during a random परीक्षण or a for-cause test — for उदाहरण, after a ट्रैफ़िक दुर्घटना — can परिणाम in termination of नियुक्ति साथ no chance of भविष्य re-hire.
अनेक states in the u.S. और provinces in कनाडा have अपनाया सच्चाई in sentencing कानून कि enforce सख्त दिशानिर्देश on sentencing, differing इससे पिछला practice जहाँ थाना time थी घटाया or निलंबित बाद sentencing had महरूम issued.
कुछ jurisdictions have न्यायिक guidelines requiring a अनिवार्य न्यूनतम sentence.
Penalties लिये dui आरोप दायरा इससे महंगी शुल्क to forfetiruree of your अनुज्ञा plates और in कुछ serious circumstances, your गाडी.
A drunk ड्राइविंग simulator in montréal, Canada
the विशिष्ट criminal ठोकर may be called, depending on the क्षेत्राधिकार, driving अंतर्गत the influence [ of दारू or other drugs ] ( dui ), driving under intense influence ( duii ), ड्राइविंग जबकि intoxicated ( DWI ), ऑपरेटिंग under the influence ( oui ) ऑपरेटिंग जबकि intoxicated ( OWI ), ऑपरेटिंग a motor गाडी जबकि intoxicated ( OMVI ), ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत the संयुक्त influence of alcohol and/or अन्य drugs, ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत the influence प्रति se or नशे in charge [ of a vehicle ].
अनेक such laws लागू also to motorcycling, boating, piloting वायुयान, use of motile फार्म equipment ऐसे as tractors and combines, सवारी घोड़े or ड्राइविंग a horse-drawn गाडी, or bicycling, संभवतः साथ अलग bac level than driving.
in कुछ jurisdictions वहीँ हैं पृथक charges depending on the vehicle प्रयुक्त, ऐसे as BWI ( bicycling जबकि intoxicated ), which may carry a हल्का वाक्य.
In the United राज्य, local law enforcement एजेंसियों बना 1,467,300 रखवाले nationwide for ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत the influence of alcohol in 1996, compared to 1.9 लाख ऐसे रखवाले during the शिखर साल in 1983.
In 1997 an अनुमानित 513,200 DWI अपराधियों were in prison or कारावास, down from 593,000 in 1990 और up from 270,100 in 1986.
अधिकारियों from us कस्टम और Border सुरक्षा बोर्डिंग a ship
Law प्रवर्तन in the संयुक्त राज्य is one of तीन प्रमुख components of the criminal justice system of the United राज्य, साथ with न्यायालयों और corrections.
हालांकि there exists an inherent interrelatedness between the अलग समूह that make up the criminal इंसाफ प्रणाली आधारित on उनके अपराधों deterrence purpose, each घटक operates independently इससे one another.
However, the न्यायपालिका is vested साथ the शक्ति to मेक विधिक determinations regarding the conduct of the अन्य दो components.
अलावा from maintaining order and service कृत्यों, the purpose of policing is the investigation of suspected criminal कार्यकलाप और the referral of the results of investigations and of suspected अपराधियों to the courts.
Law प्रवर्तन, to varying डिग्री at different स्तर of सरकारी and in अलग एजेंसियों, is also commonly चार्ज साथ the जिम्मेदारियों of deterring दण्ड activity और of preventing the कामयाब commission of अपराधों in प्रगति ; the service और प्रवर्तन of वारंट, writs और अन्य आदेश of the न्यायालयों.
विधि प्रवर्तन एजेंसियों हैं also शामिल in providing first जवाब to emergencies और अन्य threats to पब्लिक safety ; the protection of certain पब्लिक सुविधाएं और infrastructure ; the मेंटेनेंस of पब्लिक अनुक्रम ; the protection of पब्लिक officials ; और the operation of कुछ correctional सुविधाएं ( usually at the local level ).
एल्मर figueroa arce ( born June 28, 1968 ), best ज्ञात अंतर्गत the स्टेज नाम chayanne, is a Puerto rican Latin pop सिंगर और actor.
as a solo artist, chayanne has released 21 solo एल्बम और sold over 15 लाख एल्बम worldwide.
`` संसार युद्ध हल्क '' is a comic book crossover storyline कि ran through a self titled limited श्रेणी और विभिन्न अन्य शीर्षक प्रकाशित by आश्चर्य Comics in 2007, featuring the हल्क.
the श्रेणी consists of पाँच प्रमुख issues titled संसार युद्ध हल्क, with ग्रेग पाक as writer और जॉन Romita, jr. as penciller, and तीन अन्य सीमित श्रेणी : World War हल्क : सामने लकीर, World युद्ध हल्क : गामा corps, और संसार युद्ध हल्क : x-men.
It भी ran through several अन्य Marvel कॉमिक्स श्रेणी.
The प्लाट is the culmination of a series of events कि began with the हल्क होने tricked into स्पेस by the illuminati and a life मॉडल decoy of Nick Fury, the Hulk 's subsequent निर्वासन seen in ग्रह Hulk and उसके निकट वापसी to Earth to तलाश बदला on the illuminati.
marion Mitchell मॉरिसन ( born Marion रॉबर्ट मॉरिसन ; May 26, 1907 – June 11, 1979 ), better ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम जॉन Wayne, थी an अमरीकी film actor, निदेशक और निर्माता.
an Academy पुरस्कार -winner, वेन was among the शीर्ष box दफ्तर draws for three दशकों, और was नामित the all-time शीर्ष money-making स्टार.
an enduring अमरीकी प्रतीक, he epitomized rugged मर्दानगी और is famous लिये his demeanor, सहित his distinctive शांत आवाज़, चलना, और ऊँचाई.
Wayne was born in Winterset, Iowa लकिन his family relocated to the वृहद Los Angeles क्षेत्रफल when he थी four years बूढ़ा.
he found work at लोकल film studios when he lost his football स्कॉलरशिप to यूएससी as a परिणाम of a bodysurfing दुर्घटना.
Initially working लिये the Fox फिल्मी Corporation, he mostly appeared in small bit parts.
उसके पहला अग्रणी भूमिका came in the widescreen एपिक The बिग ट्रेल ( 1930 ), जिससे led to अग्रणी भूमिकाएँ in numerous films throughout the 1930s, many of उन्हें in the पश्चिमी विधा.
His करियर rose to further heights in 1939, with John Ford 's Stagecoach बनाना उसे an तत्काल superstar.
Wayne होता go on to star in 142 तस्वीरें, primarily typecast in पश्चिमी films.
among his बेहतरीन known later films हैं the Quiet man ( 1952 ), जिससे follows him as an irish-american boxer और उसके प्रेम affair साथ a fiery spinster played by Maureen o'hara ; the searchers ( 1956 ), in जिससे he plays a सिविल War दिग्गज जो seeks आउट उसके abducted niece ; रिओ Bravo ( 1959 ), playing a Sheriff with डीन Martin ; सच्चा Grit ( 1969 ), playing a humorous u.s. Marshal who sets out to avenge a man 's मौत in the role कि won Wayne an अकादमी पुरस्कार ; and the Shootist ( 1976 ), his final स्क्रीन performance in जिससे he plays an वृद्धावस्था gunslinger battling cancer.
वेन moved to नारंगी County, कैलिफ़ोर्निया in the 1960s, और थी a prominent Republican in हॉलीवुड, supporting anti-communist positions.
He died of stomach कर्कट in 1979.
in जून 1999, the अमरीकी फिल्मी Institute नामित Wayne 13th among the महानतम पुरूष Screen महापुरूष of All समय.
Galileo Galilei ( ; 15 February 1564 – 8 January 1642 ), was an इतालवी physicist, गणितज्ञ, astronomer, और philosopher जो played a प्रमुख role in the Scientific क्रान्ति.
उसके उपलब्धियाँ include सुधार to the दूरदर्शी और consequent astronomical observations और support for copernicanism.
Galileo has महरूम पुकारा the `` पिता of modern observational astronomy ``, the `` father of आधुनिक physics ``, the `` पिता of विज्ञान '', और `` the पिता of आधुनिक विज्ञान ''.
His योगदान to observational खगोलशास्त्र शामिल the telescopic पुष्टि of the phases of Venus, the डिस्कवरी of the चार largest satellites of बृहस्पति ( नामित the galilean moons in उसके इज्ज़त ), और the अवलोकन और analysis of sunspots.
गैलीलियो भी worked in लागू विज्ञान और प्रौद्योगिकी, inventing an improved military कम्पास और अन्य यंत्र.
गैलीलियो 's championing of heliocentrism थी विवादास्पद भीतर उसके आजीवन, जब most subscribed to either geocentrism or the Tychonic system.
he met with विपक्ष from खगोलशास्त्रियों, जो doubted heliocentrism due to the अनुपस्थिति of an observed तारकीय लंबन.
the पदार्थ was investigated by the रोमन Inquisition in 1615, and they concluded कि it could be समर्थित as only a सम्भावना, नहीं an established fact.
गैलीलियो later defended his दृश्य in संवाद Concerning the दो Chief World प्रणालियों, जिससे appeared to attack पोप शहरी VIII and यूँ alienated उसे and the Jesuits, who had दोनो supported गैलीलियो up जबतक इस पाइंट.
He थी tried by the Inquisition, found `` ओजस्वी suspect of heresy '', मजबूर to recant, और खर्च the rest of उसके life अंतर्गत house arrest.
It थी जबकि Galileo was under हाउस गिरफ़्तार कि he wrote one of उसके finest works, दो New Sciences, in जिससे he summarised the work he था किया some forty सालो earlier, on the दो sciences अभी called kinematics और strength of सामग्री.
55 '' LG OLED tv showcased at CES 2012
प्रोटोटाइप oled lighting फलक विकसित by lumiotec
demonstration of a लचीली oled यंत्र
an oled ( organic light-emitting डायोड ) is a light-emitting डायोड ( led ) in जिससे the emissive electroluminescent layer is a फिल्मी of organic यौगिक जिससे emits light in जवाब to an इलेक्ट्रिक वर्तमान.
इस परत of सशुल्क सेमीकंडक्टर is situated between दो electrodes.
generally, at तनिक one of these electrodes is transparent.
OLEDs are used to बनाएँ digital प्रदर्शक in डिवाइस such as टेलीविज़न screens, computer monitors, पोर्टेबल प्रणालियों such as मोबाईल फोन, हैंडहेल्ड खेल consoles और PDAs.
a प्रमुख area of research is the development of white oled डिवाइस लिये उपयोग in solid-state lighting अनुप्रयोग.
वहीँ हैं दो प्रमुख परिवारों of oleds : those आधारित on छोटी अणुओं और those employing polymers.
adding मोबाईल ions to an OLED creates a light-emitting electrochemical कोशिका or LEC, जिससे रै a थोड़ा different विधि of आपरेशन.
oled प्रदर्शक can उपयोग either passive-matrix ( pmoled ) or active-matrix addressing schemes.
active-matrix OLEDs ( amoled ) आवश्यकता a thin-film ट्रांजिस्टर backplane to स्विच प्रत्येक individual पिक्सेल on or बंद, but allow for higher रेज़ोल्यूशन और larger display आकार.
An oled प्रदर्शक works without a backlight.
यूँ, it can display deep ब्लैक स्तर और can be thinner और lighter than a द्रव crystal प्रदर्शक ( एलसीडी ).
In कम परिवेश light conditions such as a dark room an oled स्क्रीन can achieve a उच्चतर contrast ratio than an LCD, whether the एलसीडी उपयोग ठंडा cathode fluorescent lamps or led backlight.
a carton और a कांच of eggnog from Montreal, Canada, प्रर्दशित इसके French मुखाग्र ( English रिवर्स ) और the French पद लेत de poule ( वस्तुतः, `` मुर्गी 's मिल्क '' )
eggnog, or अंडा nog, is a sweetened दुग्ध -आधारd पेय traditionally बना with मिल्क and/or मलाई, sugar, and whipped अंडे ( which देता it a frothy texture ).
ब्रांडी, rum, व्हिस्की, bourbon, वोदका, or a संयोजन of liquors are often added.
The समाप्त सेवारत is प्रायः garnished साथ a sprinkling of मैदान दालचीनी or nutmeg.
It थी भी ज्ञात as the egg मिल्क punch.
Eggnog is a popular पेय throughout the United राज्य and कनाडा, and is प्रायः associated साथ Christmas.
eggnog may be added as a flavoring to खाना or पेय such as कॉफी और चाय.
Eggnog as a कस्टर्ड can also be प्रयुक्त as an ice cream आधार.
a pasty (, ), ( sometimes ज्ञात in Britain as a Cornish pasty, and in the संयुक्त States as a pastie or अंग्रेजों pasty ) is a baked pastry, a traditional किस्में of जिससे is विशेषकर संबद्ध साथ कॉर्नवॉल, the westernmost काउंटी in इंग्लैण्ड.
it is made by रखकर uncooked भरना typically of meat and सब्जियां, without मांस in शाकाहारी versions, on a flat पेस्ट्री वृत्त और फोल्डिंग it to wrap the भरना, crimping the edge to रूप a मुहर.
बाद बेकिंग, the result is a उठाया semicircular comestible.
the परंपरागत cornish pasty, जिससे रै सुरक्षित भौगोलिक indication ( pgi ) औकात in यूरोपीय, is filled with beef, sliced or diced potato, swede ( भी ज्ञात as a पीला turnip or rutabaga – referred to in Cornwall as शलजम ) and प्याज, seasoned साथ salt और pepper, and is baked.
Today, the pasty is the खाना सबसे associated with Cornwall, it is regarded as the नेशनल डिश, और it खाते for 6 % of the cornish खाना economy.
Pasties साथ many different fillings हैं बना ; कुछ दुकानें specialise in selling all sorts of pasties.
the origins of the pasty हैं unclear, though there are many सन्दर्भ to them throughout historical documents और fiction.
the pasty is अभी लोकप्रिय world-wide due to the स्प्रेड of Cornish miners, और विसंगतियाँ can be मिला in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, the संयुक्त States, Mexico and elsewhere.
the ( ortho- ) सहानुभूतिपूर्ण बेचैन system ( sns ) is एक of three प्रमुख parts of the autonomic बेचैन system : the अन्य being the enteric and parasympathetic systems.
Its सामान्य कार्रवाई is to mobilize the देह 's nervous प्रणाली fight-or-flight response.
it is, however, constantly active at a basic स्तर to maintain homeostasis.
सुरक्षित Digital or ( sd ) is a non-volatile memory card स्वरूप for उपयोग in पोर्टेबल devices, ऐसे as mobile phones, डिजिटल कैमरे, gps navigation devices, and टैब्लेट कंप्यूटर.
The Secure Digital मानक is कायम by the sd Card संघ ( sda ).
sd technologies have महरूम implemented in more than 400 brands आरपार dozens of उत्पाद categories और अधिक than 8,000 मॉडल.
the सुरक्षित डिजिटल format includes four card परिवारों उपलब्धियाँ in तीन अलग form factors.
the four परिवारों are the original standard-capacity ( sdsc ), the high-capacity ( sdhc ), the eXtended-Capacity ( sdxc ), और the SDIO, which combines input/output कृत्यों साथ data storage.
the three form कारकों हैं the असली आकार, the `` मिनी '' size, and the `` सूक्ष्म '' आकार ( देखिए उदाहरण ).
वहीँ are अनेक combinations of रूप factors and यंत्र families.
Electrically passive adapters allow the उपयोग of a छोटी कार्ड in a host device built to थाम a larger card.
मेजबान डिवाइस that comply साथ नए संस्करण of the specification provide backward संगतता और accept older sd ताश, but इस आलेख explains several कारकों that can prevent the उपयोग of a newer SD card:
A नए card may प्रस्ताव greater capacity than the मेजबान device can हैंडल.
A नए card may उपयोग a संचिका प्रणाली the मेजबान device can नहीं navigate.
Use of an SDIO कार्ड requires the मेजबान यंत्र be designed for the input/output कृत्यों the कार्ड provides.
the organization of the कार्ड was changed starting साथ the SDHC परिवार.
कुछ विक्रेता उत्पादित sdsc ताश ऊपर 1 gb before the SDA था standardized a विधि of doing so.
the sda उपयोग several trademarked लोगो to enforce compliance with इसके specifications और assure उपयोक्ता of संगतता.
The following is a सूची of critics of the नई Deal.
Daniel लॉरेंस व्हिटनी ( born फ़रवरी 17, 1963 ) best known by उसके स्टेज नाम और अक्षर लैरी the Cable Guy, is an American stand-up comedian, कर्ता, देश म्यूज़िक artist, voice actor, and पूर्व रेडियो व्यक्तित्व.
He थी एक of the सदस्यों of the ब्लू कॉलर कॉमेडी Tour, a कॉमेडी troupe which शामिल विधेयक engvall, रॉन White, and जेफ़ foxworthy ( साथ whom he has स्ट्रक्चर on ब्लू Collar TV ).
व्हिटनी has released सात कॉमेडी एल्बम, of which three have been certified सुनहरा by the riaa for shipments of 500,000 copies.
In जोड, he रै starred in three ब्लू कॉलर Comedy tour-related फिल्मों, as खूब as in the films लैरी the केबल guy : स्वास्थ्य Inspector, Delta तमाशा, और witless सुरक्षा, as well as voicing Mater in the Cars मताधिकार.
Whitney 's catchphrase : `` git-r-done ! '' is also the शीर्षक of his book.
on जनवरी 26, 2010, the tv चैनल इतिहास announced कि it was ordering a series starring व्हिटनी पुकारा तभी in अमेरिका साथ लैरी the केबल Guy, in जिससे he होता explore the country और immerse himself in अलग lifestyles, jobs, और शौक.
the पहला एपीसोड of the श्रेणी aired on फ़रवरी 8, 2011.
Vitamin d is a group of fat-soluble secosteroids जिम्मेदार लिये intestinal अवशोषण of कैल्सियम and फास्फेट.
In इंसानो, the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण related यौगिकों of विटामिन D are विटामिन D2 and vitamin D3.
cholecalciferol ( vitamin d3 ) और ergocalciferol ( विटामिन D2 ) are unique as वे constitute what we जान as विटामिन d और can be ingested इससे the आहार and/or पूरक.
the देह can भी synthesize विटामिन d ( इससे cholesterol ) when सूर्य exposure is adequate ( hence its उपनाम, the `` sunshine vitamin '' ).
हालांकि विटामिन d is commonly called a विटामिन, it is not दरअसल an essential dietary vitamin in the strict sense, as it can be synthesized in पर्याप्त amounts by most स्तनधारियों उजागर to sunlight.
( Cats और dogs can नहीं synthesize विटामिन d efficiently and must प्राप्त it in उनके आहार. )
An सशुल्क chemical यौगिक ( or सम्बन्धित नियत of यौगिकों ) is only scientifically पुकारा a vitamin when it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an सजीव, and must be obtained from their आहार.
However, as with अन्य compounds commonly पुकारा vitamins, विटामिन D was खोजा in an प्रयत्न to find the dietary पदार्थ कि थी lacking in a बीमारी, namely, rickets, the childhood form of osteomalacia.
additionally, like अन्य compounds पुकारा विटामिन, in the developed world विटामिन D is added to स्टेपल भोजन, such as मिल्क, to avoid बीमारी due to deficiency.
Measures of सीरम levels reflect endogenous संश्लेषण from exposure to धूप as खूब as सेवन from the आहार, और it is believed कि संश्लेषण may contribute generally to the maintenance of पर्याप्त सीरम concentrations.
the evidence indicates कि the संश्लेषण of विटामिन d from सूर्य exposure works in a प्रतिक्रिया लूप that रोकता toxicity लकिन, क्युकी of अनिश्चितता परिचय the कर्कट risk from धूप, no सुझाव are जारी by the Institute of आयुर्विज्ञान, USA, for the राशि of सूर्य exposure जरूरी to meet विटामिन d requirements.
तदनुसार, the Dietary सन्दर्भ Intakes लिये विटामिन d assume that no संश्लेषण occurs और that सब of a person 's विटामिन d is from their आहार, although कि होगा rarely occur in अभ्यास.
In the जिगर विटामिन D is परिवर्तित to calcidiol, which is also known as calcifediol ( इन ), 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, or 25-hydroxyvitamin D—abbreviated 25 ( oh ) d ; and जिससे is the विशिष्ट विटामिन D metabolite कि is measured in सीरम to determine a person 's विटामिन d औकात.
Part of the calcidiol is परिवर्तित by the kidneys to calcitriol, the biologically active रूप of विटामिन D. calcitriol circulates as a hormone in the blood, regulating the विशेषज्ञता of कैल्सियम और फास्फेट in the bloodstream और promoting the स्वस्थ विकास और remodeling of bone.
calcidiol is also परिवर्तित to calcitriol outside of the गुर्दे for other उद्देश्य, ऐसे as the proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis of cells ; calcitriol also affects neuromuscular फलन and inflammation.
Beyond इसके use to prevent osteomalacia or rickets, the evidence लिये अन्य स्वास्थ्य प्रभाव of विटामिन D supplementation in the general population is असंगत.
the best evidence of लाभ is लिये अस्थि स्वास्थ्य and a घटी in मृत्यु in elderly महिलाओं.
मानक रूप of the आवधिक table.
The colors represent अलग श्रेणी of elements समझाया below.
The आवधिक table is a table display of the रासायनिक तत्व, organized on the आधार of their परमाणु संख्याएँ, इलेक्ट्रॉन configurations, और पुनरावर्ती रासायनिक गुण.
तत्व हैं presented in अनुक्रम of increasing परमाणु क्रमांक ( क्रमांक of protons ).
The standard रूप of तालिका comprises an 18 × 7 ग्रिड or main body of elements, positioned ऊपर a छोटी double पंक्ति of elements.
the तालिका can भी be deconstructed into four rectangular ब्लॉक : the s-block to the left, the p-block to the right, the d-block in the middle, और the f-block नीचे that.
the पंक्ति of the table are called अवधि ; the कालम of the s-, d-, and p-blocks हैं called groups, साथ some of ये having names such as the हैलोजन्स or the प्रतिष्ठित गैसों.
चूंकि, by definition, a आवधिक तालिका incorporates पुनरावर्ती रुझान, कोई such तालिका can be used to derive relationships between the properties of the elements and भविष्यवाणी the properties of new, yet to be खोजा or synthesized, तत्व.
As a result, a आवधिक table—whether in the मानक form or some अन्य variant—provides a उपयोगी framework लिये analyzing रासायनिक बर्ताव, और ऐसे tables हैं widely प्रयुक्त in रसायन और अन्य sciences.
हालांकि precursors मौजूद, dmitri mendeleev is generally credited with the publication, in 1869, of the पहला widely recognized periodic table.
He विकसित उसके table to illustrate periodic रुझान in the properties of the then-known तत्व.
Mendeleev भी predicted some properties of then-unknown elements that होता be अपेक्षित to भरण गैप in इस table.
Most of उसके पूर्वानुमान were proved सही जब the तत्व in सवाल यहूद subsequently discovered.
Mendeleev 's आवधिक तालिका has चूंकि been विस्तारित and refined with the डिस्कवरी or synthesis of further नई तत्व और the development of नई theoretical मॉडल to बताइये रासायनिक बर्ताव.
All elements from परमाणु numbers 1 ( हाइड्रोजन ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have महरूम खोजा or synthesized.
The elements इससे 1 to 98 ( californium ) have been मिला to मौजूद naturally, although some हैं found only in trace amounts और यहूद initially खोजा by synthesis in laboratories.
the तत्व बाद 98 have तभी been synthesized in laboratories.
उत्पादन of तत्व beyond ununoctium is होने धड़ा, साथ the सवाल of कैसा the periodic table may need to be modified to accommodate any such additions होने a पदार्थ of जारी बहस.
numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally occurring तत्व have also महरूम उत्पादित in laboratories.
Minimum मजदूरी by U.S. state and u.S. territory ( American समोआ, गुआम, प्यूर्टो रीको, वर्जिन आइलैंड्स ), as of jan. 1, 2013.
in the संयुक्त राज्य, workers हैं generally हकदार to be सशुल्क no less than the statutory न्यूनतम मजदूरी.
the संघीय government mandates a देशभर न्यूनतम wage level of $ 7.25 per hour, while कुछ states and municipalities have नियत न्यूनतम wage स्तर higher than the संघीय level, with the उच्चतम state minimum मजदूरी being $ 9.19 प्रति hour in Washington as of 2013.
among those paid by the घंटा in 2012, 1.6 लाख यहूद reported as कमाई exactly the प्रचलित federal minimum मजदूरी.
परिचय 2.0 million यहूद reported as earning मजदूरी below the न्यूनतम.
साथ, ये 3.6 million workers साथ wages at or नीचे the minimum बना up 4.7 प्रतिशत of सब hourly-paid workers.
a selection of bourbons और टेनेसी whiskeys offered at a liquor स्टोर in decatur, Georgia
evan Williams bourbon whiskey
bourbon whiskey is a प्रकार of अमरीकी whiskey – a barrel-aged आसुत स्पिरिट made primarily from मकई.
the name of the स्पिरिट गर्भाशयी from its ऐतिहासिक संघ with an क्षेत्रफल ज्ञात as बूढ़ा Bourbon, around कया is अभी bourbon County, केंटकी ( which, in turn, थी नामित बाद the French हाउस of Bourbon royal family ).
it has महरूम produced since the 18th सदी.
जबकि it may be बना anywhere in the संयुक्त राज्य, it is strongly associated with the अमरीकी दक्षिण in general, and केंटकी in particular.
The mona लिसा ( La gioconda or la joconde ) is a half-length portrait of a woman by the इतालवी कलाकार लियोनार्डो da विंची, which रै been acclaimed as `` the best known, the सबसे visited, the सबसे written परिचय, the सबसे सुंग परिचय, the सबसे parodied work of art in the world. ''
the पेंटिंग, विचार to be a पोर्ट्रेट of Lisa Gherardini, the wife of francesco डेल Giocondo, is in आयल on a poplar panel, and is believed to have महरूम चित्रित between 1503 और 1506.
it was acquired by किंग Francis i of France and is now the प्रॉपर्टी of the फ्रेंच Republic, on permanent प्रदर्शक at the musée du louvre in पेरिस since 1797.
The ambiguity of the subject 's अभिव्यक्ति, जिससे is अक्सर described as enigmatic, the monumentality of the composition, the हल्का मॉडलिंग of forms and the वायुमंडलीय illusionism यहूद अनोखा qualities that have contributed to the continuing fascination और पढ़ाई of the work.
Robert Allen पामर ( 19 January 1949 – 26 सितंबर 2003 ), थी an English singer-songwriter और संगीतकार.
he थी known लिये उसके distinctive आवाज़ and the eclectic mix of musical styles on उसके albums, combining आत्मा, jazz, चट्टान, पॉप, रेगी और blues.
he मिला कामयाबी both in उसके solo करियर और in the musical अधिनियम the Power स्टेशन, and था Top 10 गीतों in दोनो the UK और the US.
उसके iconic music videos by टेरेंस Donovan लिये the हिट्स `` Addicted to प्रेम `` and `` बस Irresistible `` प्रदर्शित identically वेश dancing महिलाओं with पाले चेहरों, dark eye makeup and bright रेड लिपस्टिक, जिससे resembled the women in the art of पैट्रिक Nagel, an artist लोकप्रिय in the 1980s.
sharp-suited, his भागीदारी in the म्यूज़िक industry commenced in the 1960s, covered पाँच दशकों और included a वर्तनी with Vinegar जो.
Palmer प्राप्त a क्रमांक of पुरस्कार throughout उसके करियर, सहित two ग्रैमी Awards लिये बेहतरीन पुरूष Rock गायन Performance, an एमटीवी Video Music Award, और थी twice मनोनीत for the ब्रिट पुरस्कार for बेहतरीन अंग्रेजों Male.
computed tomography एंजियोग्राफी ( cta ) is a computed tomography technique प्रयुक्त to visualize arterial and venous vessels throughout the body.
इस सीमाएँ from धमनियों सेवारत the brain to those bringing blood to the फेफड़े, kidneys, बाहें और टाँगे.
the champs-élysées सजा साथ ध्वज for bastille दिन
Horseman of the फ्रेंच Republican गार्ड during the 2007 military parade on the champs-élysées.
prise de la bastille by Jean-Pierre-Louis-Laurent houel
Bastille दिन is the नाम given in english-speaking countries to the फ्रेंच नेशनल दिन, which is मनाये on the 14th of July प्रत्येक year.
In France, it is formally पुकारा la Fête nationale ( ; The नेशनल Celebration ) और commonly le quatorze juillet ( ; the fourteenth of जुलाई ).
it commemorates the 1790 fête de la fédération, held on the first anniversary of the storming of the bastille on 14 जुलाई 1789 ; the वर्षगांठ of the storming of the Bastille fortress-prison थी seen as a प्रतीक of the uprising of the आधुनिक nation, and of the reconciliation of all the French inside the संवैधानिक monarchy जिससे preceded the पहला गणतंत्र, during the French Revolution.
festivities और आधिकारिक ceremonies हैं held all over France.
the oldest and largest regular सैन्य परेड in यूरोपीय is आयोजित on the morning of 14 July, on the champs-élysées एवेन्यू in Paris in सामने of the अध्यक्ष of the गणतंत्र, French officials और विदेशी guests.
the United राज्य of अमेरिका ( यूएसए or u.s.A. ), commonly पुकारा the United राज्य ( US or u.S. ) or America, is a federal गणतंत्र consisting of fifty राज्य और a संघीय ज़िला.
The lower forty-eight संलग्न राज्य और the संघीय ज़िला of वॉशिंगटन, d.C. are in सेंट्रल उत्तर America between कनाडा and Mexico.
the राज्य of अलास्का is west of कनाडा and east of रूस across the बेरिंग जलसन्धि, और the राज्य of Hawaii is in the mid-north प्रशांत.
the country भी रै पाँच आबादी and nine unpopulated territories in the Pacific और the Caribbean.
at 3.79 million वर्गाकार miles ( 9.83 लाख km2 ) and साथ around 315 million people, the संयुक्त States is the third- or fourth-largest देश by कुल क्षेत्रफल और the third-largest by दोनो land area और population.
it is one of the संसार 's most ethnically diverse और multicultural राष्ट्र, the उत्पाद of large-scale आव्रजन इससे अनेक देशों.
The भूगोल और जलवायु of the U.S. is भी extremely विविध, साथ deserts, plains, forests, और kyu कि हैं home to a चौड़ी किस्में of species.
Paleoindians migrated from एशिया to कया is now the संयुक्त राज्य mainland around 15,000 years ago.
बाद 1500, बूढ़ा World diseases introduced by Europeans greatly घटाया उनके populations.
European colonization began around 1600 and came ज़्यादातर from इंग्लैण्ड.
The संयुक्त राज्य उभरा from तेरह अंग्रेजों colonies located along the Atlantic seaboard.
विवादों between Great ब्रिटेन और the अमरीकी colonies led to the American क्रान्ति.
On July 4, 1776, delegates from the 13 colonies unanimously जारी the घोषणा of Independence, जिससे स्थापित the United States of अमेरिका.
The American क्रांतिकारी War, which ended साथ the recognition of independence of the United राज्य इससे the किंगडम of ग्रेट Britain, थी the first successful war of स्वतंत्रता विरूद्ध a European colonial empire.
The वर्तमान Constitution was अपनाया on सितंबर 17, 1787 ; twenty-seven Amendments have चूंकि been added to the संविधान.
the पहला टेन amendments, collectively नामित the विधेयक of अधिकारों, were ratified in 1791 and गारंटी अनेक fundamental civil अधिकारों और freedoms.
चलित by the doctrine of manifest नियति, the United राज्य embarked on a vigorous विस्तार आरपार North America throughout the 19th सदी.
This involved displacing देशी जनजातियों, acquiring new territories, and धीरे admitting new राज्य.
the American सिविल War ended legalized गुलामी in the संयुक्त States.
by the end of the उन्नीसवीं सदी, the संयुक्त राज्य विस्तारित into the प्रशांत समंदर, and its economy थी the संसार 's largest.
The Spanish–American युद्ध और पुष्टि the देश 's औकात as a वैश्विक military शक्ति.
The United States उभरा from as a वैश्विक superpower, the पहला देश साथ nuclear हथियार, and a permanent सदस्य of the संयुक्त Nations सुरक्षा परिषद.
The समाप्त of the ठंडा War और the dissolution of the Soviet Union बाएँ the संयुक्त राज्य as the sole महाशक्ति.
the United राज्य is a विकसित देश and has the संसार 's largest नेशनल economy, with an अनुमानित 2012 जीडीपी of $ 15.6 trillion 19 % of global GDP at purchasing-power पैरिटी, as of 2011.
the प्रति capita जीडीपी of the u.S. थी the world 's sixth-highest as of 2010, although America 's wealth असमानता was also क्रमित उच्चतम among OECD देशों by the संसार बैंको.
The अर्थव्यवस्था is fueled by an abundance of natural संसाधन, a well-developed infrastructure, and high उत्पादकता ; and जबकि its अर्थव्यवस्था is considered post-industrial it continues to be one of the world 's largest निर्माताओं.
the देश खाते लिये 39 % of global सैन्य spending, and is a leading economic, political, and सांस्कृतिक फ़ोर्स in the संसार, as खूब as a नेता in वैज्ञानिक research और technological innovation.
the ncaa मेन 's Division i बास्केट Championship is a single-elimination टूर्नामेंट निभाई प्रत्येक spring in the संयुक्त States, currently featuring 68 कॉलेज बास्केट टीमों, to determine the नेशनल चैंपियनशिप of the प्रमुख कॉलेज बास्केट टीमों.
the टूर्नामेंट, organized by the National Collegiate एथलेटिक Association ( NCAA ), was निर्मित दौरान 1939 by the नेशनल Association of बास्केट Coaches, and was the विचार of ओहियो State विश्वविद्यालयों coach Harold olsen.
निभाई ज़्यादातर during March, it is known informally as March Madness or the बिग नृत्य, और has become एक of the सबसे famous सालाना sporting कार्यक्रम in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The NCAA रै credited Bob वाल्श of the सिएटल आयोजन कमेटी for starting the March दीवानगी जश्न दौरान 1984.
The टूर्नामेंट टीमों include champions from 31 प्रभाग i सम्मेलनों ( which प्राप्त स्वचालित bids ), और 37 teams जिससे हैं awarded at-large berths.
ये `` at-large '' टीमों are chosen by an NCAA selection कमेटी, as detailed below.
The 64 teams are विभाजित into four regions और organized into a single विलोपन `` कोष्ठक '', जिससे predetermines, जब a team विन्स a खेल, which टोली it will face अगला.
प्रत्येक टोली is `` seeded '', or क्रमित, भीतर its प्रदेश.
बाद an आरंभिक four खेल between आठ lower-ranked teams, the टूर्नामेंट occurs during the course of तीन weekends, at pre-selected न्यूट्रल साइट around the संयुक्त राज्य.
Lower-ranked teams are placed in the bracket विरूद्ध उच्चतर क्रमित टीमों.
प्रत्येक weekend eliminates three-fourths of the टीमों, इससे a गोलाकार of 64, to a `` मीठी Sixteen '', और लिये the पिछला वीकेंड of the टूर्नामेंट a फाइनल Four ; the Final Four is usually निभाई during the पहला वीकेंड of April.
ये चार teams, एक इससे प्रत्येक प्रदेश, then compete in एक स्थान लिये the national चैंपियनशिप.
the टूर्नामेंट has been at तनिक partially televised चूंकि 1969.
Presently, the खेल हैं reported by सीबीएस, tbs, TNT, और truTV by the trade-name NCAA March दीवानगी.
चूंकि 2011, सब games हैं उपलब्धियाँ लिये देखने nationwide.
as टेलीविज़न coverage रै grown, so too रै the tournament 's लोकप्रियता.
presently, लाखो of Americans `` भरण out a कोष्ठक '', predicting विजेता of सब 67 खेल.
साथ 11 नेशनल शीर्षक, UCLA रै the record for the सबसे ncaa Men 's Division i बास्केट championships ; जॉन लकड़ी coached ucla to 10 of इसके 11 शीर्षक.
the विश्वविद्यालयों of केंटकी is दूसरी, साथ 8 नेशनल titles, जबकि इंडियाना University और the University of उत्तर कैरोलिना हैं tied लिये तीसरा साथ 5 नेशनल शीर्षक.
ड्यूक University बाँधने पांचवां साथ 4 नेशनल शीर्षक.
a नमूना of सिंथेटिक motor oil
Synthetic आयल is a lubricant consisting of रासायनिक यौगिकों कि हैं artificially बना ( synthesized ).
Synthetic lubricants can be manufactured using chemically परिवर्धित petroleum components rather than whole crude आयल, लकिन can also be synthesized इससे अन्य raw सामग्री.
Synthetic आयल is प्रयुक्त as a स्थानापन्न लिये स्नेहक परिष्कृत from पेट्रोलियम जब ऑपरेटिंग in extremes of तापमान, क्युकी, in सामान्य, it provides श्रेष्ठ mechanical and chemical गुण than those मिला in परंपरागत खनिज oils.
Aircraft jet इंजन, for उदाहरण, आवश्यकता the उपयोग of सिंथेटिक oils, whereas वायुयान piston engines do नहीं.
Jackass is an अमरीकी वास्तविकता series, originally दिखाया on MTV इससे 2000 to 2002, featuring लोगों performing various dangerous, crude self-injuring स्टंट और pranks.
the दिखाएँ परोसा as a launchpad लिये the टेलीविज़न और acting करियर of bam margera, steve-o, and भी Johnny knoxville, जो previously था only a few नाबालिग acting भूमिकाएँ.
चूंकि 2002, three बेवकूफ़ films have महरूम उत्पादित और released by एमटीवी कॉरपोरेट सहोदर सर्वोपरि तस्वीरें, continuing the मताधिकार after its चलाएं on टेलीविज़न.
the दिखाएँ sparked अनेक spin-offs including Viva la bam, Wildboyz, Homewrecker, dr. steve-o और Blastazoid.
The दिखाएँ placed # 68 on entertainment साप्ताहिक `` New tv क्लासिक '' list.
Roseanne cherrie barr ( born नवम्बर 3, 1952 ) is an American अभिनेत्री, comedienne, लेखक, television निर्माता, director, और 2012 presidential nominee of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया -आधारd सलाम and Freedom Party.
barr began उसके करियर in stand-up comedy at clubs पहले gaining कीर्ति for उसके role in the sitcom roseanne.
The दिखाएँ थी a hit and lasted नौ सीज़न, इससे 1988 to 1997.
She जीती दोनो an एमी और a Golden ग्लोब पुरस्कार for Best Actress for her कार्य on the show.
barr had crafted a `` fierce working-class domestic goddess '' persona in the eight सालो preceding उसके sitcom and wanted to do a realistic show about a दमदार mother जो थी not a शिकार of patriarchal भोगवाद.
The granddaughter of आप्रवासियों from यूरोपीय और रूस, barr थी the oldest of four children in a working-class यहूदी नमक Lake नगर परिवार ; वो was also क्रियाशील in the LDS Church.
In 1974, वो शादीशुदा विधेयक pentland, साथ whom वो था three children, पहले divorcing in 1990 और marrying comedian Tom अर्नाल्ड लिये four years.
विवाद arose जब she sang `` The star-spangled Banner `` off-key at a 1990 nationally aired बेसबॉल game, followed by grabbing उसके crotch और spitting.
बाद उसके sitcom ended, वो launched her own talk दिखाएँ, The roseanne Show, which aired इससे 1998 to 2000.
In 2005, she लौटे to stand-up कॉमेडी with a संसार दौरे.
in 2011, वो स्ट्रक्चर in an unscripted tv दिखाएँ, Roseanne 's Nuts, कि lasted इससे जुलाई to September of that साल, about उसके life on a Hawaiian फार्म.
in early 2012, Barr घोषित her उम्मीदवारी लिये the Presidential नामांकन of the Green Party.
barr lost the nomination to jill Stein.
वो तब sought the अध्यक्षीय nomination of the Peace and Freedom पार्टी, which वो won on अगस्त 4, 2012.
Barr प्राप्त 61,971 मत in the सामान्य election, रखकर छठे overall.
francesco Albani 's 17th सदी बपतिस्मा of Christ is a ठेठ depiction साथ the आसमान खोलने and the Holy स्पिरिट descending as a dove.
the baptism of Jesus marks the beginning of उसके पब्लिक मंत्रालय.
This इवेंट is अंकित in the canonical gospels of मैथ्यू, चिह्नित और ल्यूक.
जॉन 's इन्जील does नहीं describe Jesus ' baptism, लकिन जॉन the बैपटिस्ट करता गवाही of the other बाते in.
in the New वसीयत, John the Baptist preached the baptism of repentance लिये the remission of sins ( ), और घोषित खुद a forerunner of he that would baptize `` साथ the पावन भुत और साथ fire '' ( ).
In so doing he was preparing the रास्ता लिये Jesus.
Jesus आए to the जॉर्डन नदी जहाँ he was baptized by John.
the baptismal झाँकी शामिल the आकाश खोलने, a dove-like descent of the Holy स्पिरिट, और a आवाज़ इससे स्वर्ग saying, `` इस is my beloved बेटे, in whom I am खूब pleased. ''
Most आधुनिक विद्वानों view the फैक्ट कि Jesus was baptized by John as an ऐतिहासिक इवेंट to जिससे a ऊँची उपाधि of certainty can be आबंटित.
Along साथ the crucifixion of यीशु most scholars view it as one of the दो historically निश्चित तथ्य about him, and often उपयोग it as the starting अंक for the study of the ऐतिहासिक यीशु.
the बपतिस्मा is एक of the पाँच major माइलस्टोन in the इन्जील कथा of the जीवन of यीशु, the अन्य होने the Transfiguration, crucifixion, क़यामत, और Ascension.
सबसे Christian denominations दृश्य the बपतिस्मा of Jesus as an महत्वपूर्ण इवेंट and a basis लिये the ईसाई रीति of baptism ( देखिए also ).
In पूर्वी Christianity, यीशु ' बपतिस्मा is commemorated on 6 January, the feast of Epiphany.
in the Roman Catholic Church, the anglican नियाज़, the लूथरन चर्च and कुछ अन्य पश्चिमी denominations, it is recalled on a day within the following सप्ताह, the feast of the baptism of the Lord.
In Roman catholicism, the बपतिस्मा of यीशु is one of the चमकदार रहस्यों sometimes added to the rosary.
it is a Trinitarian feast in the पूर्वी Orthodox चर्च.
methylcobalamin ( shown ) is a form of विटामिन B12.
Physically it resembles the अन्य फ़ॉर्म of विटामिन b12, occurring as dark red crystals कि freely रूप cherry-colored पारदर्शी समाधान in water.
Vitamin b12, विटामिन b12 or vitamin b-12, भी called cobalamin, is a water-soluble विटामिन with a कुंजी role in the सामान्य functioning of the दिमाग और बेचैन प्रणाली, and for the formation of रक्त.
it is one of the eight B विटामिन.
it is normally involved in the चयापचय of every कोशिका of the इंसान body, especially affecting डीएनए synthesis and विनियमन, but भी वसीय एसिड synthesis और उर्जा उत्पादन.
neither fungi, plants, nor पशु are सक्षम of producing vitamin B12.
Only bacteria और आर्किया have the enzymes required for इसके संश्लेषण, हालांकि many foods हैं a प्राकृतिक सोर्स of B12 because of bacterial symbiosis.
The विटामिन is the largest and most structurally जटिल विटामिन and can be produced industrially तभी through bacterial fermentation-synthesis.
विटामिन b12 consists of a क्लास of chemically सम्बन्धित यौगिकों ( vitamers ), सब of which have विटामिन activity.
It contains the biochemically विरल तत्व कोबाल्ट.
Biosynthesis of the मौलिक ढांचा of the vitamin is accomplished तभी by bacteria ( which usually produce hydroxocobalamin ), but परिवर्तन between different फ़ॉर्म of the विटामिन can be accomplished in the इंसान देह.
A common semi-synthetic रूप of the विटामिन, cyanocobalamin, करता not occur in nature, लकिन is produced इससे bacterial hydroxocobalamin and then used in many pharmaceuticals और पूरक, और as a food योगात्मक, because of इसके stability और निम्नतर production cost.
In the body it is converted to the human physiological forms methylcobalamin and adenosylcobalamin, leaving पीछे the साइनाइड, albeit in minimal विशेषज्ञता.
अधिक recently, hydroxocobalamin, methylcobalamin, and adenosylcobalamin can be मिला in अधिक महंगी pharmacological उत्पाद और खाना पूरक.
the अतिरिक्त utility of ये is फिलहाल debated.
विटामिन b12 थी discovered from its relationship to the disease घातक रक्ताल्पता, जिससे is an असंक्राम्य बीमारी in which parietal कोशिकाएं of the पेट responsible for secreting intrinsic फ़ैक्टर हैं destroyed.
मूलभूत फ़ैक्टर is crucial लिये the सामान्य अवशोषण of b12, so a कमी of intrinsic फ़ैक्टर, as seen in घातक रक्ताल्पता, causes a विटामिन b12 deficiency.
अनेक अन्य subtler kinds of vitamin B12 कमियां और their biochemical effects have since महरूम elucidated.
पूरा मेटल Jacket is a 1987 युद्ध फिल्मी उत्पादित, निर्देशित and co-written by स्टेनली Kubrick.
It is an adaptation of गुस्ताव hasford 's 1979 अनोखा the short-timers and सितारों मैथ्यू modine, Vincent D'Onofrio, R. Lee ermey, Arliss Howard, and Adam baldwin.
the फिल्मी फ़ॉलो a प्लाटून of u.S. Marines through उनके प्रशिक्षण and the अनुभवों of दो of the platoon 's marines in the Tet अप्रिय दौरान the वियतनाम युद्ध.
the फिल्मी 's शीर्षक refers to the पूरा metal jacket गोली used by infantry riflemen.
the film प्राप्त नाजुक acclaim.
it प्राप्त an अकादमी पुरस्कार नामांकन for Best Adapted पटकथा लिये kubrick, Michael हेर और Gustav Hasford.
In 2001, the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान लगाई Full Metal जैकेट at # 95 in उनके `` एएफआई 's 100 सालो... 100 thrills `` पोल.
tmz is a celebrity न्यूज जालस्थल कि debuted on नवम्बर 8, 2005.
It थी a सहयोग between एओएल और telepictures Productions, a प्रभाग of warner भाईs., until समय warner divested एओएल in 2009.
However, it remained संबद्ध साथ AOL न्यूज and has the AOL न्यूज logo affixed in the अपर right corner.
the नाम TMZ स्टैंड लिये the historic `` स्टुडियो zone `` or 30-mile मण्डल दायरा from the intersection of वेस्ट Beverly Boulevard और उत्तर la Cienega boulevard in लॉस Angeles.
tmz 's मैनेजिंग editor is घनघोर levin, a lawyer-turned-journalist जो थी previously a विधिक expert for the लॉस एंजिल्स टेलीविज़न station kcbs-tv.
The साईट claims that it करता not अदा for कहानियां or साक्षात्कार ; however, levin रै admitted कि tmz करता `` sometimes अदा स्त्रोत for लीड on कहानियां ''.
levin रै stated कि `` सबकुछ is शोधकार्य and vetted लिये accuracy. ''
A साथी tv श्रेणी, tmz on tv, debuted on सितंबर 10, 2007.
चीख 3 is a 2000 American slasher फिल्मी निर्मित by केविन विलियमसन, निर्देशित by Wes craven और लिखा by ehren Kruger, starring Neve कैम्पबेल, courteney कॉक्स Arquette और David arquette.
it थी released on फ़रवरी 4, 2000 as the third installment in the चीख फिल्मी श्रेणी.
the कार्यक्रम of the story are set तीन सालो after those of Scream 2 and follows sidney प्रेस्कॉट ( कैम्पबेल ) who रै gone into self-imposed isolation following the events of the पिछला दो films लकिन is drawn to हॉलीवुड बाद a new Ghostface begins killing the डाल of the फिल्मी भीतर a फिल्मी `` stab 3 ''.
चीख 3 combines the हिंसा of the slasher विधा with कॉमेडी और `` whodunit `` रहस्य while satirizing the cliché of फिल्मी trilogies.
नापसंद the previous Scream films, there थी an increased जोर on comedic elements and the violence और horror was घटाया in response to increased पब्लिक scrutiny about violence in media following the Columbine ऊँची School नरसंहार.
The फिल्मी थी the concluding अध्याय of the Scream श्रेणी until it was revived साथ a sequel, चीख 4, in 2011.
Williamson provided a five-page रूपरेखा लिये दो सिक्वेल to Scream जब auctioning his असली script, उम्मीद to entice bidders साथ the संभावित of खरीदे a मताधिकार.
विलियमसन 's commitments to other प्रोजेक्ट meant he was असमर्थ to develop a पूरा स्क्रिप्ट लिये Scream 3 और writing कर्तव्य यहूद undertaken by Ehren Kruger who discarded much of विलियमसन 's notes.
Craven और मार्को beltrami लौटे to direct and स्कोर the film क्रमशः as they था साथ the previous दो series entries.
Production थी troubled साथ स्क्रिप्ट rewrites, साथ pages sometimes तभी तैयार on the day of फिल्मांकन, और scheduling difficulties with the main डाल.
चीख 3 performed दोनो financially और critically बदतर than इसके preceding films, earning over $ 161 लाख and साथ अनेक आलोचकों claiming कि the film था become what चीख originally `` spoofed ``.
Despite negative criticism the film did प्राप्त तारीफ़ साथ reviewers कॉलिंग it the पूर्ण समाप्त to the चीख त्रयी.
As of 2012, the film is currently the number 3 highest-grossing slasher-film in उत्तर अमेरिका, following Scream at क्रमांक 1 and चीख 2 at number 2.
The film 's साउंडट्रैक थी well-received, spending fourteen weeks on the Billboard 200 and reaching a ऊँची of # 32.
Shoulder impingement syndrome, also पुकारा painful चाप सिंड्रोम, supraspinatus सिंड्रोम, तैराक 's shoulder, and thrower 's shoulder, is a नैदानिक सिंड्रोम जिससे occurs जब the tendons of the rotator कफ मांसपेशियां become irritated और inflamed as they pass through the subacromial space, the ड्योढ़ी beneath the acromion.
इस can परिणाम in पीड़ा, कमज़ोरी और घाटा of गति at the shoulder.
JLA was a मासिक comic किताब प्रकाशित by DC Comics from January 1997 to April 2006 featuring the Justice League.
The colonial history of the संयुक्त States कवर the history of यूरोपीय settlements from the start of colonization of America जबतक their incorporation into the United States.
in the लेट 16th century, England, France, स्पेन और the नीदरलैंड्स launched major colonization कार्यक्रम in eastern North अमेरिका.
छोटी early attempts—such as the अंग्रेज़ी खोया Colony of Roanoke —often disappeared ; everywhere the मौत रेट of the पहला आमद थी बहुत high.
Nevertheless कामयाब colonies यहूद स्थापित.
यूरोपीय settlers came इससे a किस्में of social और धार्मिक समूह.
No aristocrats settled permanently, but a क्रमांक of adventurers, सैनिको, किसानो, और tradesmen arrived.
Diversity थी an अमरीकी characteristic as the डच of नई netherland, the swedes और finns of नई स्वीडन, the English Quakers of पेन्सिलवेनिया, the English Puritans of New इंग्लैण्ड, the अंग्रेज़ी settlers of Jamestown, and the `` worthy poor '' of जॉर्जिया, आए to the new महाद्वीप और निर्मित colonies with distinctive social, धार्मिक, political और आर्थिक शैलियाँ.
occasionally एक colony took कंट्रोल of another ( during युद्धों between उनके European parents ).
तभी in Nova स्कोटिया ( now part of Canada ) किया the conquerors निकाल the पिछला colonists.
Instead they सब lived side by पक्ष in सलाम.
There यहूद no major civil युद्धों among the 13 colonies, और the two मुख्य armed विद्रोहों ( in वर्जिनिया in 1676 और in नई यॉर्क in 1689–91 ) यहूद short-lived असफलताओं.
Wars between the फ्रेंच और the British—the French और Indian युद्धों and पिता Rale 's युद्ध —were तूल, and involved French-support लिये wabanaki confederacy हमले on the frontiers.
by 1760 फ़्रांस was पराजित और the British जब्त इसके colonies.
The चार distinct regions यहूद : New इंग्लैण्ड, the Middle colonies, the chesapeake खाड़ी Colonies ( अपर South ) और the निम्नतर South.
कुछ historians add a पांचवां region, the frontier, which was never separately organized.
By the समय यूरोपीय settlers arrived around 1600–1650, the बहुमत of the देशी अमेरिकी living in the पूर्वी संयुक्त राज्य had been decimated by new diseases, introduced to them decades before by explorers और sailors.
See timeline of Colonial America for सूची of historical events.
ग्लोरिया Laura वेंडरबिल्ट ( born फ़रवरी 20, 1924 ) is an American कलाकार, लेखक, अभिनेत्री, heiress, और socialite सबसे विख्यात as an early डेवलपर of designer blue जीन्स.
वो is a सदस्य of the prominent वेंडरबिल्ट परिवार of New यॉर्क और the माँ of सीएनएन 's एंडरसन कूपर.
Greece ( रोमनाइजेशन of Greek| ), officially the Hellenic गणतंत्र ( ' ), is a देश in southeast Europe.
according to the 2011 जनसांख्यिकी, यूनानियों 's population is around 11 million.
Athens is the nation 's पूंजी and largest city, इसके urban area also including Piraeus.
Greece is रणनीतिक स्तिथ at the क्रॉसरोड्स of यूरोपीय, एशिया, the मध्य East, and Africa, and रै land सीमायें with अल्बानियाई, the गणतंत्र of मकदूनिया and Bulgaria to the उत्तर, और तुर्कों to the northeast.
The Aegean Sea झूठ to the ईस्ट of मेनलैंड Greece, the Ionian समुद्र to the वेस्ट, और the भूमध्यसागरीय Sea to the south.
यूनानियों रै the 11th longest तटरेखा in the world at in length, featuring a विशाल क्रमांक of आइलैंड्स ( लगभग 1,400, of which 227 हैं inhabited ), including Crete, the dodecanese, the cyclades, और the Ionian आइलैंड्स among अन्य.
Eighty percent of Greece consists of mountains, of जिससे Mount ओलम्पस is the उच्चतम at.
आधुनिक Greece traces इसके roots to the civilization of प्राचीन यूनानियों, generally considered the पालना of Western सभ्यता.
As such, it is the birthplace of लोकतंत्र, पश्चिमी दर्शनशास्त्र, the ओलम्पिक Games, पश्चिमी साहित्य और historiography, राजनैतिक विज्ञान, प्रमुख वैज्ञानिक और mathematical सिद्धान्त, और पश्चिमी नाटक, सहित both त्रासदी और कॉमेडी.
इस legacy is partly reflected in the सत्रह युनेस्को संसार विरासत साइट located in यूनानियों, ranking it 7th in यूरोपीय और 13th in the संसार.
The modern यूनानी राज्य थी स्थापित in 1830, following the यूनानी War of स्वतंत्रता.
Greece is a founding सदस्य of the United Nations, रै been a सदस्य of कया is अभी the यूरोपीय संघ चूंकि 1981 ( and the eurozone since 2001 ), and रै महरूम a member of NATO चूंकि 1952.
Greece is a विकसित देश with an उन्नत, high-income अर्थव्यवस्था और बहुत ऊँची standards of जीना, सहित the संसार 's 21st highest विशेषता of जीवन as of 2010.
यूनानियों 's अर्थव्यवस्था is also the largest in the balkans, जहाँ यूनानियों is an important क्षेत्रीय investor.
a प्रधान मध्याह्न is a मध्याह्न, i.e. a line of longitude, at which देशांतर is पारिभाषित to be 0°.
a प्रधान meridian और its opposite in a 360°-system, the 180th मध्याह्न ( at 180° देशांतर ), रूप a great वृत्त.
This ग्रेट वृत्त divides the गोला, e.g. the Earth, into दो hemispheres.
if एक उपयोग दिशानिर्देश of East and West from a defined प्रधान मध्याह्न, तब वे can be पुकारा पूर्वी Hemisphere और पश्चिमी गोलार्ध.
Gerardus Mercator in उसके एटलस Cosmographicae ( 1595 ) uses a prime meridian कही बंद to 25°w, passing बस to the west of सांता मरिया द्वीप in the अटलांटिक.
उसके 180th मध्याह्न runs साथ the Strait of Anián ( Bering जलसन्धि )
a प्रधान meridian is ultimately मनमानी, नापसंद an equator, जिससे is determined by the अक्ष of rotation—and विभिन्न प्रथाओं have been प्रयुक्त or advocated in different regions और throughout history.
minka dumont केली ( born Minka Dumont dufay ; June 24, 1980 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री.
वो is शायद बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये her भूमिकाएँ in Charlie 's Angels, शुक्रवार रात्रि लाइट्स, और The रूममेट.
R.O.B. ( रोबोटिक ऑपरेटिंग दोस्त ), released in Japan as the, is an accessory for the निन्टेंडो entertainment System ( NES ).
It थी released in July 1985 in Japan और बाद that साल in उत्तर अमेरिका.
it था a छोटी उत्पाद जीवनकाल, with support लिये तभी दो games जिससे comprised the `` रोबोट Series '' ; gyromite and Stack-Up.
R.O.B. थी released with the intention of portraying the निन्टेंडो entertainment प्रणाली as कुछ novel in order to alleviate खुदरा fears following the video खेल crash of 1983.
R.O.B. थी available in the Deluxe Set, a विन्यास लिये the console कि included, among अन्य बाते, r.o.b. और gyromite.
stack-up थी purchased separately और शामिल इसके अपना physical खेल टुकड़े.
The चलना स्वतंत्रता हाफ डालर was a चांदी 50-cent टुकड़ा or half dollar सिक्का जारी by the संयुक्त States मिंट from 1916 to 1947 ; it was designed by Adolph A. weinman.
in 1915, the new Mint Director, रॉबर्ट W. woolley, आए to मानना that he was नहीं तभी allowed but जरूरी by विधि to बदलें coin डिजाइन कि had महरूम in use for 25 सालो.
He इसलिए began the process of replacing the नाई coinage : dimes, quarters और हाफ डॉलर, सब bearing similar डिजाइन by long-time Mint engraver चार्ल्स E. Barber, और पहला struck in 1892.
Woolley had the Commission of Fine कला conduct a प्रतियोगिता, as a परिणाम of which weinman was चयनित to design the dime and हाफ dollar.
weinman 's डिज़ाइन of स्वतंत्रता striding towards the सूर्य for the हाफ डालर proved difficult to पूर्ण, और Treasury सचिव विलियम G. McAdoo, जिनकी department शामिल the मिंट, माना having नाई create उसके अपना डिज़ाइन.
मिंट officials यहूद कामयाब in getting weinman 's डिज़ाइन into production, हालांकि it never struck बहुत well, जिससे may have महरूम a फ़ैक्टर in इसके बदलना by the फ्रैंकलिन हाफ डालर शुरूआत in 1948.
nevertheless, आर्ट इतिहासकार कॉर्नेलियस vermeule considered the टुकड़ा to be among the most beautiful us सिक्के.
Since 1986, a modification of weinman 's obverse डिज़ाइन रै been प्रयुक्त लिये the American Silver Eagle.
The टोयोटा 4Runner is a mid-size sport यूटिलिटी vehicle ( SUV ) produced by the जापानी निर्माता टोयोटा और sold throughout the world from 1984 to present.
in Japan it थी known as the टोयोटा hilux Surf.
the original 4Runner थी a compact एसयूवी और little अधिक than a टोयोटा पिकअप ट्रक साथ a fiberglass शेल over the bed, but the मॉडल रै चूंकि undergone significant स्वतंत्र विकास into a cross between a कॉम्पैक्ट और a mid-size एसयूवी.
All 4runners have महरूम built at टोयोटा 's tahara plant in tahara, aichi, Japan, or at Hino मोटर्स ' hamura, जापानी plant, और in Brazil.
इसके mid-size क्रॉसओवर एसयूवी counterpart is the Toyota highlander.
This आलेख सौदे साथ medicine as practiced by प्रशिक्षित पेशेवर from ancient टाइम्स to the present.
The ancient उन्होंने था a system of medicine कि was very उन्नत लिये इसके समय और influenced later medical traditions.
The Egyptians और Babylonians दोनो introduced the अवधारणाओं of निदान, prognosis, और medical examination.
The Greeks गई even further, और advanced as खूब चिकित्सा आचार.
the Hippocratic शपथ, स्टिल लिया by डॉक्टर today, थी लिखा in यूनानियों in the 5th सदी bce.
in the medieval era, surgical practices inherited from the प्राचीन मास्टर्स यहूद improved और तब systematized in Rogerius 's The अभ्यास of Surgery.
विश्वविद्यालयों began व्यवस्थित training of physicians around the सालो 1220 in इटली.
दौरान the Renaissance, understanding of anatomy improved, और the सूक्ष्मदर्शी थी invented.
the रोगाणु theory of disease in the 19th सदी led to cures for many संक्रामक diseases.
सैन्य doctors उन्नत the methods of आघात treatment और surgery.
पब्लिक health measures यहूद विकसित especially in the 19th सदी as the rapid growth of cities required व्यवस्थित sanitary उपायों.
उन्नत research centers खोली in the early 20th सदी, प्रायः कनेक्ट साथ प्रमुख hospitals.
the mid-20th सदी थी characterized by new biological treatments, ऐसे as एंटीबायोटिक.
These advancements, साथ with developments in रसायन, genetics, and lab प्रौद्योगिकी ( ऐसे as the x-ray ) led to modern आयुर्विज्ञान.
आयुर्विज्ञान थी heavily professionalized in the 20th century, और new करियर opened to महिलाओं as nurses ( इससे the 1870s ) और as physicians ( especially बाद 1970 ).
The 21st century is characterized by बहुत उन्नत research involving numerous फ़ील्ड of science.
The Hippocratic कॉर्पस, is a संग्रहण of early चिकित्सा works from प्राचीन Greece strongly associated with the प्राचीन यूनानी चिकित्सक Hippocrates और उसके teachings.
Potassium is a रासायनिक तत्व साथ प्रतीक k ( इससे neo-latin kalium ) और परमाणु number 19.
Elemental potassium is a soft silvery-white alkali मेटल कि oxidizes rapidly in एयर और is बहुत reactive with water, generating sufficient heat to ignite the हाइड्रोजन उत्सर्जित in the reaction and burning साथ a lilac flame.
Because पोटैशियम और sodium are chemically very समान, उनके लवण were नहीं at पहला differentiated.
the अस्तित्व of अनेक elements in उनके लवण थी suspected इससे 1702, and इस was proven in 1807 जब पोटैशियम और सोडियम were individually isolated from अलग लवण by electrolysis.
पोटैशियम in प्रकृति occurs तभी in ionic salts.
as ऐसे, it is मिला dissolved in seawater ( जिससे is 0.04 % potassium by वज़न ), and is भाग of many minerals.
Most औद्योगिक रासायनिक अनुप्रयोग of पोटैशियम employ the अपेक्षाकृत ऊँची घुलनशीलता in जल of potassium compounds, such as पोटैशियम soaps.
पोटैशियम मेटल रै only a few खास अनुप्रयोग, being replaced in सबसे रासायनिक प्रतिक्रियाएँ साथ सोडियम metal.
Potassium ions हैं necessary for the function of सब जीना कोशिकाएं.
पोटैशियम आयन diffusion is a key यांत्रिकी in nerve transmission, और पोटैशियम depletion in पशु, सहित humans, results in various हृदय डिस्फंक्शन.
पोटैशियम accumulates in संयंत्र कोशिकाएं, and thus भैस fruits and सब्जियां हैं a शुभ dietary source of it.
Conversely, सबसे पौधे except specialist halophytes are असहिष्णु of salt, and sodium is present in उन्हें only in कम विशेषज्ञता.
इस resulted in potassium पहला होने पृथक from potash, the राख of plants, giving the तत्व its नाम.
For the वही कारण, भारी क्रॉप production rapidly depletes soils of पोटैशियम, और agricultural fertilizers consume 95 % of global potassium रासायनिक production.
The Singapore डालर or डालर ( चिह्न : $ ; code : sgd ) is the official करेंसी of सिंगापुर.
It is normally abbreviated साथ the डालर चिह्न $, or alternatively S $ to फर्क it from अन्य डालर -denominated currencies.
it is divided into 100 सेंट.
the मौद्रिक प्राधिकार of सिंगापुर and the Brunei Currency और मौद्रिक फलक स्टिल maintain the ऐतिहासिक exchangeability of their two currencies, the singaporean dollar and the Brunei dollar, respectively.
the डालर is स्वीकृत as `` प्रथागत tender '' in ब्रुनेई according to the Currency interchangeability Agreement.
likewise, the Brunei डालर is customarily accepted in सिंगापुर
जेम्स सैमुएल Coleman ( May 12, 1926 – March 25, 1995 ) थी an अमरीकी समाजशास्त्री, theorist और अनुभवजन्य शोधकर्ता, based chiefly at the विश्वविद्यालयों of शिकागो.
He was elected अध्यक्ष of the American समाजशास्त्रीय Association.
कोलमैन पढ़ाई the sociology of शिक्षा, public नीति, और थी एक of the earliest उपयोक्ता of the पद `` सोशल capital ``.
उसके मूलाधार of सोशल सिद्धान्त बहकावे sociological सिद्धान्त.
उसके The adolescent Society ( 1961 ) and `` Coleman रपट '' ( समता of शैक्षणिक अवसर, 1966 ) यहूद दो of the most heavily cited books in educational समाजशास्त्र.
the landmark Coleman रपट helped रूपांतरण शैक्षणिक theory, reshape national शिक्षा policies, और बहकावे public and scholarly opinion regarding the role of schooling in determining समता and उत्पादकता in the संयुक्त States.
सुपरमैन ( from dc कॉमिक्स ) थी the first सुपरहीरो निर्मित, art by जिम ली.
A superhero ( sometimes rendered super-hero or super hero ) is a type of stock character possessing `` extraordinary or superhuman शक्तियां '' and समर्पित to protecting the पब्लिक.
Since the डेब्यू of the prototypical सुपरहीरो Superman in 1938, कहानियां of superheroes—ranging from ब्रैड episodic adventures to continuing years-long sagas—have dominated अमरीकी कॉमिक books और crossed over into other मीडिया.
the शब्द itself dates to at least 1917.
A मादा सुपरहीरो is sometimes called a superheroine ( also rendered super-heroine or सुपर नायिका ).
`` सुपर नायक '' is a ट्रेडमार्क co-owned by dc Comics and Marvel Comics.
By most definitions, characters do नहीं सख्ती आवश्यकता actual superhuman शक्तियां to be deemed superheroes, हालांकि शर्तें ऐसे as costumed अपराधों सेनानी or नकाबपोश vigilantes are sometimes used to refer to those ऐसे as बैटमैन and ग्रीन तीर बगैर such powers जो share other आम सुपरहीरो traits.
Such वर्ण were generally referred to as `` mystery men '' in the so-called Golden आयु of कॉमिक Books to distinguish them इससे वर्ण साथ super-powers.
सामान्यतः, superheroes उपयोग उनके शक्तियां to काउंटर day-to-day अपराधों जबकि भी combating खतरे विरूद्ध मानवता by supervillains, उनके दण्ड counterparts.
Often, एक of ये supervillains होगा be the सुपरहीरो 's archenemy.
as well, some longrunning superheroes, ऐसे as सुपरमैन, बैटमैन, Spider-Man and Iron Man प्रत्येक रै a rogues gallery of enemies.
as खूब, superheroes sometimes होगा कॉम्बैट ऐसे irregular threats as aliens, magical/ fantasy entities, American war दुश्मनों ऐसे as नात्सीवाद or साम्यवादी, and godlike or demonic जीव.
The following is a ऐतिहासिक सूची of actors and प्राथमिक character भूमिकाएँ जिससे appear on the अमरीकी साबुन ओपेरा एक Life to Live.
the shawshank मोचन is a 1994 अमरीकी drama film लिखा और निर्देशित by फ़्रैंक Darabont और अभिनीत Tim रॉबिन्स और Morgan फ्रीमैन.
adapted from the स्टीफन किंग novella Rita hayworth और shawshank मोचन, the फिल्मी tells the story of एंडी dufresne, a banker जो spends nearly दो दशकों in Shawshank राज्य Prison लिये the murder of his बीवी and her प्रेमी despite उसके claims of innocence.
दौरान his time at the थाना, he befriends a fellow inmate, Ellis Boyd `` रेड '' redding, और पाता खुद सुरक्षित by the guards after the वार्डन begins using उसे in his money laundering operation.
Despite a गुनगुने box office रिसेप्शन कि मुश्किल recouped its budget, the film received favorable समीक्षाएँ from critics, multiple award nominations, और has चूंकि enjoyed a remarkable जीवन on केबल television, vhs, dvd, and Blu-ray.
it थी शामिल in the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान 's 100 Years... 100 Movies 10th वर्षगांठ संस्करण.
it management is the अनुशासन whereby सब of the technology संसाधन of a कड़ are managed in accordance with इसके needs और priorities.
These संसाधन may शामिल ठोस investments जैसे computer हार्डवेयर, तन्त्र, data, संजाल और data centre सुविधाएं, as well as the staffs जो are नियुक्त to maintain them.
मैनेजिंग this responsibility within a कम्पनी entails अनेक of the मौलिक management कृत्यों, जैसे budgeting, staffing, and आयोजन और controlling, along साथ अन्य पहलुओं that हैं अद्वितीय to technology, like change प्रबन्धन, तन्त्र डिज़ाइन, संजाल planning, तकनीक support etc.
the penitentiary of नई मैक्सिको Prison riot, जिससे took place on फ़रवरी 2 और 3, 1980, in the state 's अधिकतम सुरक्षा थाना दक्षिण of Santa Fe, was एक of the सबसे हिंसक prison दंगे in the इतिहास of the अमरीकी correctional प्रणाली : 33 inmates died and अधिक than 200 inmates यहूद treated लिये injuries.
none of the 12 अधिकारियों taken hostage यहूद मारे, but seven यहूद treated for चोटों caused by beatings and rapes.
इस was the third major riot at the NM State Penitentiary, the first occurring on 19 जुलाई 1922 और the दूसरी on 15 जून 1953.
लेखक Roger मॉरिस suggests the मौत toll may have महरूम उच्चतर, as a क्रमांक of लाशें were incinerated or dismembered during the course of the mayhem.
`` Red कार्डिनल '' redirects यहाँ.
लिये the संयंत्र erythrina herbacea, see मूँगा Bean.
the उत्तरी Cardinal ( Cardinalis cardinalis ) is a उत्तर American bird in the genus cardinalis ; it is also known colloquially as the redbird or common कार्डिनल.
it can be found in southern Canada, through the पूर्वी संयुक्त States from Maine to टेक्सास and south through Mexico.
it is मिला in woodlands, gardens, shrublands, और swamps.
the उत्तरी Cardinal is a mid-sized songbird साथ a देह लंबाई of 21 सेंटीमीटर ( 8.3 इंच ).
It रै a distinctive crest on the head and a mask on the फेस जिससे is ब्लैक in the पुरूष और धूसर in the female.
the पुरूष is a हर्षोल्लास रेड, while the female is a dull red-brown shade.
the Northern कार्डिनल is mainly granivorous, but भी फ़ीड्स on कीट और फल.
The male behaves territorially, marking आउट his territory साथ सोंग.
दौरान प्रेमालाप, the पुरूष फ़ीड्स seed to the female beak-to-beak.
a clutch of तीन to चार अंडे is रखी, and दो to चार चंगुल हैं produced each साल.
it थी once prized as a pet, लकिन इसके बिक्री as cage पक्षियों is now बैन in the संयुक्त राज्य by the Migratory बर्ड सन्धि अधिनियम of 1918.
Surface runoff, भी पुकारा nonpoint सोर्स pollution, इससे a फार्म फ़ील्ड in आयोवा दौरान a बरसात storm.
topsoil as well as फार्म fertilizers and अन्य potential pollutants चलाएं off unprotected farm fields जब heavy rains occur.
topsoil is the upper, outermost परत of soil, प्रायः the शीर्ष to.
it has the highest विशेषज्ञता of सशुल्क पदार्थ और microorganisms and is जहाँ सबसे of the धरती 's biological soil कार्यकलाप occurs.
Musical cryptogram : `` aschbeg '' नियत in schoenberg 's Sechs kleine Klavierstücke, Op. 19, no. 1, m. 5.
नोट that the टीप do नहीं आइये in स्पेलिंग अनुक्रम but हैं सब adjacent ( not separated by अन्य टीप ).
sechs kleine klavierstücke, Op. 19 ( or छह छोटी Piano टुकड़े ) is a set of टुकड़े लिये सोलो पियानो written by the Austrian composer Arnold schoenberg, published in 1913.
McAfee, inc. ( ) is an अमरीकी global computer सुरक्षा software company headquartered in सांता क्लारा, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, and the world 's largest समर्पित सुरक्षा technology company.
as of फ़रवरी 28, 2011, McAfee is a wholly स्वामित्व subsidiary of इंटेल.
मैक्एफ़ी 's प्रतिस्पर्धी in the antivirus industry हैं Avira, BitDefender, BullGuard, f-secure, frisk, kaspersky, Symantec, और ट्रेंड Micro to नाम a few.
संत Rita of Cascia ( Born Margherita lotti 1381 - may 22, 1457 ) थी an Italian augustinian नन, विधवा and संत venerated in the रोमन कैथोलिक Church.
रीता थी शादीशुदा at an जल्दी आयु.
The विवाह lasted लिये 18 years, दौरान जिससे she is remembered लिये उसके ईसाई मान as a model बीवी और माँ जो बना प्रयत्न to convert उसके husband इससे उसके गाली बर्ताव.
Upon the हत्या of उसके husband by another feuding family, वो sought to dissuade her sons इससे बदला.
She subsequently joined an Augustinian community of धार्मिक sisters, जहाँ वो was ज्ञात for practicing mortification of the flesh, साथ साथ the apparent efficacy of उसके प्रार्थनाएं.
st. रीता is venerated due to विभिन्न miracles attributed to her सिफ़ारिश, and is often portrayed साथ a bleeding wound on her माथे, जिससे the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर claims to have been a partial stigmata.
The Roman कैथोलिक Church, under the pontificate of पोप leo XIII officially canonized Rita on May 24, 1900, जबकि उसके feast day is celebrated every may 22.
in अनेक परहेज़गारों कैथोलिक देशों, रीता is ज्ञात to be a patroness for abused पत्नियां and mourning women.
North अमेरिका is a continent wholly भीतर the उत्तरी Hemisphere and लगभग wholly within the पश्चिमी Hemisphere.
It is also माना a northern उपमहाद्वीप of the americas.
it is bordered to the उत्तर by the Arctic समंदर, to the ईस्ट by the Atlantic Ocean, to the वेस्ट and दक्षिण by the Pacific Ocean, और to the southeast by दक्षिण अमेरिका and the caribbean समुद्र.
North अमेरिका कवर an area of परिचय 24,709,000 square kilometers ( 9,540,000 वर्गाकार miles ), परिचय 4.8 % of the ग्रह 's सतह or about 16.5 % of इसके land क्षेत्रफल.
As of जुलाई 2008, its population was अनुमानित at nearly 529 million लोगों across 23 स्वतंत्र राज्य, representing परिचय 7.5 % of the human जनसांख्यिकी.
उत्तर अमेरिका is the third-largest महाद्वीप in area, following Asia and Africa, और the fourth in जनसांख्यिकी after एशिया, Africa, और यूरोपीय.
The first लोगों to सजीव in उत्तर अमेरिका were Paleoindians जो began to arrive during the last glacial period by crossing the बेरिंग land सेतु.
They differentiated into a क्रमांक of diverse cultures and communities आरपार the महाद्वीप.
the largest and सबसे उन्नत pre-columbian सभ्यताओं in उत्तर अमेरिका यहूद the aztecs in what is अभी Mexico और the Mayans in सेंट्रल America.
European colonists began to arrive starting in the 16th और 17th सदियां, wiping out विशाल numbers of the native populations and beginning an era of European dominance.
jermaine lamarr Cole ( born January 28, 1985 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by his स्टेज name J. कोल, is an अमरीकी hip-hop रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार and रिकार्ड निर्माता इससे fayetteville, उत्तर Carolina.
in 2009, he became the पहला कलाकार to चिह्न to jay-z 's आरओसी स्वदेश लेबल.
उसके long-awaited debut एल्बम, हकदार कोल संसार : the sideline स्टोरी, थी released on सितंबर 27, 2011.
The एल्बम debuted at क्रमांक एक on the US Billboard 200, शीर्ष r & b Albums और शीर्ष Rap Albums chart, selling more than 218,000 in इसके first week.
he प्राप्त a नामांकन for बेहतरीन New Artist at the 54th ग्रैमी Awards.
the दो main वर्ण of the श्रेणी, Ratchet ( सही ) और clank ( बाएँ ).
ratchet & Clank is a श्रेणी of मंच video खेल.
the मताधिकार थी निर्मित और developed by insomniac Games और प्रकाशित by सोनी कंप्यूटर entertainment लिये अनेक अलग प्लेस्टेशन consoles, ऐसे as प्लेस्टेशन 2 and PlayStation 3 साथ the exclusion of Size Matters और Secret एजेंट clank, जिससे यहूद विकसित by High Impact खेल for the PlayStation पोर्टेबल.
Every game in the series has been released for प्रत्येक कंसोल, as the ip is स्वामित्व by सोनी Computer Entertainment.
an animated विशेषता film adaptation उत्पादित by rainmaker entertainment और Blockade entertainment is scheduled लिये a नाट्य release sometime in 2015.
the games take प्लेस in a विज्ञान fiction सेटिंग और follow the adventures of ratchet ( an animalistic human-like character ज्ञात as a lombax, who is a mechanic ) और Clank ( a diminutive, sentient robot ) as वे travel through the ब्रह्मांड, छायांकन it इससे दुष्ट शक्तियां on a नियमित आधार.
the श्रेणी is noted लिये the inclusion of अनेक exotic and अद्वितीय, over the शीर्ष हथियार और डिवाइस, a concept कि insomniac Games भी विस्तारित into their अन्य games.
a होगा or वसीयत is a विधिक declaration by which a person, the testator, names one or अधिक व्यक्तियों to मैनेज his/her एस्टेट और provides for the ट्रांसफ़र of his प्रॉपर्टी at मौत.
For the devolution of property नहीं disposed of by होगा, see उत्तराधिकार और intestacy.
In the strictest भाव, a `` होगा '' रै historically महरूम सीमित to real property जबकि `` वसीयत '' applies तभी to dispositions of निजी प्रॉपर्टी ( thus giving rise to the लोकप्रिय शीर्षक of the दस्तावेज़ as `` पिछला Will और Testament '' ), हालांकि this distinction is seldom observed आज.
a will may also बनाएँ a testamentary विश्वास कि is effective तभी बाद the मौत of the testator.
the 19.9 mw Gemasolar सौर plant in Spain सुविधाएँ 15 hours of भंडार और can supply शक्ति 24 घंटों a दिन.
सौर उर्जा, radiant लाइट और ऊष्मा इससे the सूर्य, रै been harnessed by इंसानो चूंकि ancient टाइम्स using a दायरा of ever-evolving technologies.
सौर energy technologies शामिल सौर हीटिंग, solar photovoltaics, सौर थर्मल electricity, solar architecture and कृत्रिम photosynthesis, जिससे can मेक considerable contributions to solving कुछ of the सबसे urgent उर्जा समस्याएं the संसार now faces.
सौर technologies are broadly characterized as either passive सौर or क्रियाशील सौर depending on the रास्ता वे कैप्चर, convert और वितरित सौर energy.
Active सौर तकनीकों शामिल the उपयोग of photovoltaic panels और सौर थर्मल collectors to harness the उर्जा.
passive सौर तकनीकों शामिल orienting a भवन to the सूर्य, selecting सामग्री with favorable thermal mass or लाइट dispersing properties, और डिजाइनिंग spaces that naturally circulate air.
in 2011, the International उर्जा एजेंसी कहा कि `` the development of सस्ती, inexhaustible और clean सौर उर्जा technologies होगा have huge longer-term लाभ.
it will बढ़ाएँ countries’ energy security through reliance on an स्वदेशी, inexhaustible और mostly import-independent resource, enhance sustainability, reduce प्रदूषण, निम्नतर the लागत of mitigating climate change, और keep fossil ईंधन prices lower than वरना.
ये advantages are वैश्विक.
hence the additional लागत of the incentives for early deployment should be माना सीखना investments ; वे must be बुद्धिमानी खर्च और need to be widely shared ''.
सर Thomas अधिक ( ; 7 फ़रवरी 14786 July 1535 ), ज्ञात to रोमन Catholics as संत थामस More चूंकि 1935, was an English वकील, सोशल पारस, लेखक, statesman, और noted Renaissance humanist.
he थी an महत्वपूर्ण पार्षद to Henry VIII of इंग्लैण्ड और was Lord Chancellor इससे अक्तूबर 1529 to 16 may 1532.
he was canonized by पोप Pius xi in 1935 as one of the early शहीदो of the schism that separated the गिरिजाघर of England from Rome in the 16th सदी.
in 2000, पोप जॉन Paul II घोषित him संरक्षक of कैथोलिक कूटनीतिज्ञों and राजनेता.
अधिक थी an opponent of the प्रोटोस्टेंट reformation, in particular of Martin Luther और William टिंडेल.
however, चूंकि 1980, he is also commemorated by the Church of इंग्लैण्ड as a reformation वीरगति.
More coined the शब्द `` utopia `` – a name he दिया to the आदर्श और काल्पनिक द्वीप nation, the राजनैतिक system of जिससे he वर्णित in यूटोपिया, प्रकाशित in 1516.
he opposed the King 's separation इससे the Roman Catholic Church and refused to accept him as Supreme Head of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड, a title जिससे था been given by पार्लियामेंट through the Act of सर्वोच्चता of 1534.
he was imprisoned in 1534 लिये उसके refusal to लो the शपथ जरूरी by the पहला Succession Act, क्युकी the अधिनियम disparaged papal Authority और Henry’s विवाह to कैथरीन of aragon.
in 1535, he थी आजमाया लिये देशद्रोह, convicted on perjured गवाही, and beheaded.
More भी helped to originate the phrase `` grasp at straws '' to औसत `` शिद्दत trying even व्यर्थ बाते '', in his संवाद of Comfort विरूद्ध tribulation.
intellectuals and कूटनीतिज्ञों across Europe यहूद stunned by More 's execution.
erasmus saluted him as एक `` जिनकी आत्मा थी अधिक pure than कोई हिम, जिनकी प्रतिभाशाली was ऐसे कि इंग्लैण्ड never था और never again होगा have इसके जैसे ''.
वहीँ थी a more controversial पक्ष to अधिक 's life, क्युकी he advocated the persecution और execution of Protestants who refused to recant their आस्था.
however, the निर्णय of history रै महरूम largely willing to forgive this in लाइट of the टाइम्स he lived in and his शहादत in the रोमन कैथोलिक कारण.
Two centuries later Jonathan स्विफ्ट कहा More थी `` the व्यक्ति of the महानतम पुण्य this किंगडम कभी उत्पादित '', a sentiment साथ which सैमुएल जॉनसन सहमत.
इतिहासकार Hugh trevor-roper कहा in 1977 कि More थी `` the पहला ग्रेट अंग्रेज whom we महसूस that we जान, the सबसे saintly of humanists, the most human of saints, the सार्वभौमिक man of our कूल उत्तरी पुनर्जागरण. ''
कप्तान nemo, भी ज्ञात as Prince Dakkar, is a fictional अक्षर invented by the फ्रेंच विज्ञान fiction author Jules Verne.
nemo appears in two of Verne 's novels, Twenty हजार लीग Under the समुद्र ( 1870 ) and The Mysterious द्वीप ( 1874 ), और makes a कैमियो appearance in वर्न 's खेल यात्रा Through the Impossible ( 1882 ).
Nemo, एक of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध antiheroes in fiction, is a mysterious फिगर.
the बेटे of an Indian Raja, he is a scientific प्रतिभाशाली who roams the गहराइयों of the समुद्र in his पनडुब्बी, the नॉटिलस, जिससे was built on a उजाड़ island.
Nemo कोशिशें to project a stern, नियंत्रित विश्वास, लकिन he is driven by a thirst for vengeance और a द्वेष of साम्राज्यवाद ( particularly the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य ).
he is also wracked by पछतावा over the deaths of his crew सदस्यों and भी by the मौतों of दुश्मन sailors.
nemo रै appeared in विभिन्न adaptations of वर्न 's novels, सहित films, जहाँ he रै been portrayed by a क्रमांक of अलग actors.
he रै furthermore महरूम अपनाया by अन्य लेखक लिये inclusion in उनके novels, सबसे notably in एलन Moore 's The लीग of असाधारण Gentlemen और फिलिप José किसान 's The अन्य Log of Phileas fogg.
सूचीबद्ध below हैं the प्रमुख League Baseball teams साथ the best season won-lost रिकॉर्ड in history, as संकल्पित by जीतना प्रतिशत (.700 or better ), न्यूनतम 120 खेल निभाई.
Acoustic coupler मॉडेम
a modem ( modulator-demodulator ) is a यंत्र कि modulates an एनालॉग वाहक signal to encode digital information, और भी demodulates such a वाहक सिग्नल to डिकोड the transmitted सूचना.
The goal is to उपज a सिग्नल that can be transmitted easily and decoded to reproduce the असली digital data.
Modems can be प्रयुक्त over कोई अर्थात् of transmitting एनालॉग signals, इससे लाइट emitting diodes to radio.
the most परिचित उदाहरण is a voice band modem कि turns the डिजिटल data of a निजी computer into modulated विद्युत सिग्नल in the voice आवृत्ति दायरा of a टेलीफोन चैनल.
These signals can be transmitted over telephone lines और demodulated by another मॉडेम at the receiver पक्ष to रिकवर the digital आंकड़ा.
Modems हैं generally वर्गीकृत by the amount of आंकड़ा वे can भेजें in a given ईकाई of time, usually expressed in बिट्स per second ( bit/s, or bps ), or बाइट्स per दूसरी ( b/s ).
Modems can alternatively be वर्गीकृत by their symbol rate, measured in baud.
the baud ईकाई denotes प्रतीकों per second, or the number of टाइम्स per second the मॉडेम sends a नई सिग्नल.
लिये उदाहरण, the ITU v.21 मानक प्रयुक्त ऑडियो आवृत्ति shift keying with दो संभावित बारंबारता corresponding to दो पृथक प्रतीकों ( or एक बिट per प्रतीक ), to carry 300 बिट्स per दूसरी using 300 baud.
by कंट्रास्ट, the original itu v.22 मानक, जिससे थी समर्थ to transmit and प्राप्त चार पृथक symbols ( दो bits प्रति symbol ), handled 1,200 bit/s by sending 600 symbols प्रति second ( 600 baud ) using phase shift keying.
The घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता is a statement adopted by the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस on जुलाई 4, 1776, जिससे घोषित कि the तेरह अमरीकी colonies, तब at युद्ध साथ Great ब्रिटेन, regarded themselves as स्वतंत्र states, और no longer a part of the British Empire.
Instead वे अभी formed a new nation—the संयुक्त States of अमेरिका.
John एडम्स थी a नेता in pushing for स्वतंत्रता, जिससे थी unanimously approved on जुलाई 2.
a committee था already drafted the औपचारिक घोषणा, to be तैयार जब कॉंग्रेस voted on स्वतंत्रता.
Adams persuaded the committee to select थामस Jefferson to लिखें the original ड्राफ्ट of the दस्तावेज़, जिससे congress होता संपादन to उपज the final version.
The Declaration थी ultimately a औपचारिक स्पष्टीकरण of why कॉंग्रेस had voted on जुलाई 2 to declare स्वतंत्रता from ग्रेट Britain, अधिक than a साल बाद the outbreak of the अमरीकी क्रांतिकारी युद्ध.
the नेशनल जन्मदिवस, the स्वतंत्रता दिन is मनाये on जुलाई 4, although एडम्स चाही जुलाई 2.
बाद ratifying the text on July 4, Congress जारी the Declaration of स्वतंत्रता in several फ़ॉर्म.
It was initially प्रकाशित as the मुद्रित डनलप broadside कि थी widely distributed and पढ़ा to the पब्लिक.
the सबसे प्रसिद्ध संस्करण of the घोषणा, a signed नक़ल that is popularly regarded as the Declaration of Independence, is displayed at the नेशनल अभिलेख in वॉशिंगटन, d.c.
हालांकि the wording of the घोषणा थी approved on जुलाई 4, the तिथि of इसके हस्ताक्षर was August 2.
The असली जुलाई 4 संयुक्त राज्य घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता manuscript थी खोया while सब other copies have महरूम निकला इससे इस original दस्तावेज़.
The sources और interpretation of the घोषणा have been the विषय of much scholarly inquiry.
The Declaration justified the स्वतंत्रता of the संयुक्त States by लिस्टिंग औपनिवेशिक grievances against किंग George III, और by asserting निश्चित natural and विधिक अधिकारों, सहित a right of क्रान्ति.
having परोसा इसके original purpose in announcing स्वतंत्रता, the text of the घोषणा थी initially ignored बाद the अमरीकी क्रान्ति.
Since तब, it रै आइये to be माना a प्रमुख बयान on इंसान अधिकारों, विशेषकर its दूसरी sentence:
we थाम these सच्चाई to be self-evident, कि सब मेन are created बराबर, that वे हैं endowed by उनके निर्माता साथ निश्चित unalienable अधिकारों, कि among ये are Life, स्वतंत्रता और the pursuit of Happiness.
This has been पुकारा `` one of the best-known sentences in the English language '', containing `` the most potent और consequential words in अमरीकी इतिहास. ''
the passage आए to represent a moral मानक to जिससे the United States should नीयत.
इस दृश्य थी notably प्रचारित by Abraham lincoln, जो माना the Declaration to be the foundation of उसके राजनैतिक दर्शनशास्त्र, और argued कि the घोषणा is a statement of सिद्धान्त through which the United राज्य Constitution should be interpreted.
it रै प्रेरित कार्य लिये the अधिकारों of अधिकारहीन people throughout the संसार.
The अर्थव्यवस्था of Greenland can be characterized as छोटी, mixed और vulnerable.
The उपस्थित अर्थव्यवस्था consists of a बिग public सेक्टर और व्यापक विदेशी trade, जिससे has resulted in an अर्थव्यवस्था with अवधि of दमदार विकास, considerable महंगाई, बेरोजगारी समस्याएं और चरम dependence on पूंजी inflow इससे Denmark और use of बाहर, mainly डैनिश, skilled मजदूर.
जीडीपी per capita is similar to the औसत European economies लकिन the economy is critically निर्भर upon substantial support from the डैनिश सरकारी, जिससे supplies about half the revenues of the घर नियम government who in फेरे employ परिचय 8,000 greenlanders आउट of a मजदूर फ़ोर्स of 40,156 ( Jan. 2012 ).
बेरोजगारी nonetheless remains high, साथ the rest of the अर्थव्यवस्था dependent upon demand लिये exports of झींगा और मछली.
हाइड्रोजन is a रासायनिक तत्व साथ प्रतीक h और परमाणु क्रमांक 1.
With an परमाणु weight of ( for hydrogen-1 ), हाइड्रोजन is the lightest तत्व और इसके monatomic form ( h1 ) is the most abundant रासायनिक पदार्थ, constituting roughly 75 % of the ब्रह्मांड 's baryonic mass.
non- remnant stars are mainly रचित of hydrogen in its प्लाज्मा राज्य.
At standard तापमान और दबाव, हाइड्रोजन is a colorless, गंधहीन, tasteless, non-toxic, nonmetallic, अत्यधिक combustible diatomic gas साथ the molecular formula h2.
Most of the hydrogen on Earth is in अणुओं ऐसे as जल and organic यौगिकों क्युकी हाइड्रोजन readily फ़ॉर्म covalent यौगिकों साथ सबसे non-metallic तत्व.
हाइड्रोजन plays a विशेषकर महत्वपूर्ण role in acid-base chemistry साथ many प्रतिक्रियाएँ exchanging protons between घुलनशील अणुओं.
In ionic यौगिकों, it can take a ऋणात्मक चार्ज ( an anion known as a hydride और लिखा as h− ), or as a positively चार्ज प्रजाति H+.
the latter cation is written as हालांकि रचित of a bare प्रोटॉन, लकिन in reality, हाइड्रोजन cations in ionic compounds सदा occur as अधिक जटिल प्रजाति.
the सबसे common समस्थानिक of हाइड्रोजन is protium ( name rarely प्रयुक्त, symbol 1h ) साथ a सिंगल प्रोटॉन and no neutrons.
as the simplest atom known, the hydrogen अणु has महरूम of सैद्धांतिक उपयोग.
For उदाहरण, as the only न्यूट्रल अणु साथ an analytic समाधान to the Schrödinger समीकरण, the study of the energetics और bonding of the hydrogen अणु played a key role in the विकास of क्वांटम mechanics.
Hydrogen gas थी पहला artificially उत्पादित in the जल्दी 16th century, via the mixing of metals with acids.
In 1766–81, हेनरी कैवेंडिश थी the first to recognize that हाइड्रोजन gas was a discrete पदार्थ, और कि it produces जल when burned, a property जिससे बाद gave it its नाम : in Greek, hydrogen अर्थात् `` water-former ''.
औद्योगिक उत्पादन is मुख्यतः इससे the steam reforming of प्राकृतिक gas, and कम प्रायः इससे अधिक energy-intensive हाइड्रोजन उत्पादन विधि like the electrolysis of जल.
सबसे हाइड्रोजन is employed near इसके उत्पादन साईट, with the दो largest uses होने चट्टान fuel प्रसंस्करण ( e.g., hydrocracking ) and अमोनिया production, ज़्यादातर for the उर्वरक मार्केट.
हाइड्रोजन is a चिंता in metallurgy as it can embrittle अनेक धातुओं, complicating the design of pipelines and भंडार टैंक.
अजेय is a 2010 American action thriller फिल्मी निर्देशित by Tony Scott, लिखा by चिह्नित bomback, और अभिनीत Denzel Washington and Chris पाइन.
the film, loosely आधारित on the real-life csx 8888 घटना, tells the स्टोरी of a runaway भाड़ा ट्रैन, और the two men ( वॉशिंगटन और पाइन ) जो manage to रोकें it.
it was Scott 's फाइनल feature फिल्मी पहले उसके मौत in 2012.
The film was released in the United राज्य और Canada on नवम्बर 12, 2010, और in the United Kingdom on November 24, 2010.
it प्राप्त mostly favorable reviews इससे film critics ; it garnered a `` Certified Fresh '' दरजा on Rotten Tomatoes based upon aggregated reviews और a rating of `` Generally favorable reviews '' at metacritic.
the film थी मनोनीत लिये an अकादमी पुरस्कार for Best ध्वनि संपादन at the 83rd अकादमी पुरस्कार, लकिन lost to inception.
in छायाचित्र, bracketing is the सामान्य तकनीक of taking अनेक गोलियाँ of the same विषय using अलग कैमरा जमावट.
bracketing is उपयोगी और often recommended in situations that make it difficult to obtain a satisfactory image साथ a सिंगल शॉट, विशेषकर जब a छोटी विभिन्नता in exposure पैरामीटर्स has a comparatively large प्रभाव on the resulting image.
autobracketing is स्वचालित bracketing by using a setting on the कैमरा to take अनेक bracketed गोलियाँ ( in contrast to the फ़ोटोग्राफ़र altering the जमावट by हाथ between प्रत्येक शॉट ).
दिए the time it takes to accomplish अनेक गोलियाँ, it is typically, but नहीं सदा, used लिये static subjects.
Insulated glazing ( ig ), अधिक commonly known as दोगुना glazing ( or double-pane, और increasingly triple glazing/pane ) are दोगुना or ट्रिपल glass खिड़की panes separated by an air or other गैस filled स्पेस to reduce ऊष्मा ट्रांसफ़र आरपार a part of the भवन envelope.
insulated कांच Units are manufactured with कांच in range of thickness इससे 3 mm to 10 mm or अधिक in special अनुप्रयोग.
laminated or tempered glass may भी be प्रयुक्त as भाग of the निर्माण.
सबसे इकाई हैं manufactured साथ the वही thickness of कांच used on both panes but खास applications such as acoustic क्षीणन or सुरक्षा may आवश्यकता चौड़ी ranges of thicknesses to be incorporated in the same ईकाई.
A sectioned diagram of a fixed Insulated चमकीले ईकाई ( igu ), indicating the क्रमांकन convention प्रयुक्त in इस article.
Surface # 1 is facing बाहर, Surface # 2 is the अंदर surface of the exterior pane, Surface # 3 is the बाहर सतह of the आंतरिक फलक, और Surface # 4 is the अंदर surface of आंतरिक pane.
the window फ़्रेम is labelled # 5, a spacer is indicated as # 6, seals are दिखाया in red ( # 7 ), the आतंरिक खुलासा is on the सही hand पक्ष ( # 8 ) और the exterior windowsill on the बाएँ ( # 9 )
To reduce shear प्रभाव on the sealed ईकाई ( a प्रमुख कारण of premature विफलता ), manufacturers use a rule of thumb कि permits a difference of 1 mm between the मोटाई of the panes of glass used in the ईकाई and still maintain the वारंटी लिये the ईकाई.
For example, a ईकाई may be ordered साथ a 4 mm pane on the exterior and a 3 mm pane on the आंतरिक.
ये विसंगतियाँ हैं अनुमत लिये architectural और लागत कारण.
अन्य combinations can be निर्दिष्ट और उत्पादित लकिन the निर्माता may आरक्षित the right to सीमा the term of the warranty or इंकार to वारंटी the unit altogether.
For आसानी of description the सतहों of a दोगुना paned unit हैं named according to the following सम्मेलन : सतह # 1 ( facing outside ), सतह # 2 ( अंदर of बाहर फलक ), Surface # 3 ( outside of अंदर pane ) और Surface # 4 ( अंदर सतह of अंदर फलक ).
Applying the corresponding nomenclature लिये triple paned इकाई results in सतहों # 1 through # 6.
The performance of insulating glazing can be परिवर्धित through the उपयोग of the following:
A ठेठ संस्थापना of insulated glazing windows साथ uPVC window frames.
सेलेनियम is a chemical तत्व with प्रतीक se और परमाणु क्रमांक 34.
it is a nonmetal with गुण that हैं इंटरमीडिएट between those of its periodic तालिका column-adjacent chalcogen elements गंधक और tellurium.
it rarely occurs in its elemental state in nature, or as pure ore यौगिकों.
सेलेनियम ( Greek σελήνη selene meaning `` चंद्रमा '' ) थी खोजा in 1817 by jöns याक़ूब berzelius, जो noted the समानता of the नई तत्व to the previously-known tellurium ( नामित for the Earth ).
Selenium is मिला impurely in मेटल sulfide ores, जहाँ it partially replaces the गंधक.
commercially, सेलेनियम is उत्पादित as a byproduct in the शोधन of ये ores, सबसे प्रायः दौरान copper उत्पादन.
खनिज कि हैं pure selenide or selenate यौगिकों are ज्ञात, लकिन are विरल.
the मुख्य वाणिज्यिक उपयोग for सेलेनियम आज हैं in glassmaking और in pigments.
सेलेनियम is a सेमीकंडक्टर and is प्रयुक्त in photocells.
Uses in इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स, एकबार महत्वपूर्ण, have महरूम ज़्यादातर supplanted by सिलिकॉन सेमीकंडक्टर डिवाइस.
Selenium continues to be used in a few प्रकार of DC power surge protectors और एक type of fluorescent क्वांटम बिन्दु.
Selenium लवण are विषाक्त in विशाल amounts, लकिन trace amounts हैं जरुरी for सेल्यूलर फलन in अनेक जीवों, सहित all पशु.
Selenium is a component of the antioxidant एंजाइमों glutathione peroxidase and thioredoxin reductase ( which indirectly reduce certain oxidized molecules in पशु and कुछ plants ).
it is also found in तीन deiodinase एंजाइमों, which convert एक थायराइड hormone to another.
Selenium आवश्यकताएँ in पौधे differ by प्रजाति, साथ कुछ पौधे requiring relatively large amounts, और अन्य जाहिर requiring none.
The संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्षीय चुनाव of 2008 was the 56th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव.
it was held on Tuesday, November 4, 2008.
डेमोक्रेट Barack ओबामा, then the junior Senator from इलिनोइस, पराजित रिपब्लिकन जॉन McCain, the वरिष्ठ सीनेटर इससे Arizona.
As the अभियान progressed, the युद्ध in इराकी और outgoing Republican President जार्ज W. बुश had become increasingly unpopular, और the major-party उम्मीदवार भागा on a मंच of बदलें और सुधार.
घरेलू नीति and the अर्थव्यवस्था आखिरकार उभरा as the प्रमुख विषयवस्तु in the पिछला few महीने of the election अभियान after the onset of the worst मंदी चूंकि the 1930s.
ओबामा होता go on to win a decisive विजय over मैक्केन in दोनो the चुनावी and लोकप्रिय vote.
ओबामा received the सबसे मत लिये a presidential प्रत्याशी in अमरीकी history, और won the लोकप्रिय और चुनावी vote by the largest हाशिया in 12 years, as खूब as the largest percentage of the लोकप्रिय vote for a Democrat in nearly a half-century.
इस थी the पहला U.S. अध्यक्षीय चुनाव in which an अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी was निर्वाचित, having भी महरूम the पहला in जिससे an अफ़्रीकी American जीती the nomination of either प्रमुख party.
इस चुनाव was भी notable लिये being the first समय in U.S. इतिहास कि दोनो प्रमुख पार्टी उम्मीदवार यहूद बैठे U.S. Senators, तभी the third समय ( after 1920 and 1960 ) कि कोई बैठे u.s. Senator थी निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष, and तभी the दूसरी समय that the जीतना अध्यक्ष और वाइस President ( ओबामा और बिडेन ) यहूद दोनो बैठे u.s. सीनेटरों.
इस थी भी the first election since 1952 in जिससे neither of the प्रमुख पार्टियों ' nominees थी the incumbent अध्यक्ष or Vice अध्यक्ष.
the Sovereign Prince or राजकुमारी of Monaco is the reigning monarch और सिर of राज्य of the principality of मोनाको.
All princes or princesses have officially taken the नाम of the हाउस of grimaldi, लकिन have belonged to विभिन्न अन्य houses ( Goyon de Matignon, polignac ) in पुरूष line.
The reigning Prince is अल्बर्ट ii.
कल्पना of fragmentation and then of defragmentation
In the maintenance of file प्रणालियों, defragmentation is a प्रक्रम कि reduces the राशि of fragmentation.
it करता इस by physically organizing the सामग्री of the mass storage यंत्र प्रयुक्त to store फाइलें into the smallest क्रमांक of संलग्न regions ( fragments ).
it also कोशिशें to create larger regions of फ़्री स्पेस using compaction to impede the return of fragmentation.
कुछ defragmentation उपयोगिताएँ try to रखना smaller फाइलें भीतर a सिंगल directory साथ, as वे हैं often पहुँचा in sequence.
defragmentation is लाभदायक and प्रासंगिक to file प्रणालियों on electromechanical डिस्क drives.
the movement of the hard ड्राइव 's read/write heads over अलग क्षेत्रों of the डिस्क जब accessing fragmented फाइलें is slower, compared to accessing the entire सामग्री of a non-fragmented संचिका sequentially without चलती the read/write heads to तलाश other fragments.
A service-level अनुबंध ( SLA ) is a भाग of a service contract where a सेवा is formally defined.
In practice, the term SLA is sometimes प्रयुक्त to refer to the contracted delivery समय ( of the सेवा or performance ).
as an example, अंतरजाल service प्रदाताओं होगा commonly शामिल सेवा स्तर समझौतों भीतर the terms of उनके contracts साथ customers to define the स्तर ( s ) of सेवा being sold in मैदान language शर्तें.
in इस case the sla होगा typically have a तकनीकी definition in शर्तें of mean time between failures ( mtbf ), औसत time to मरम्मत or औसत time to recovery ( MTTR ) ; विभिन्न आंकड़ा rates ; throughput ; jitter ; or similar measurable विवरण.
संघ Station is a पूर्व खरीदारी मॉल in संघ City, जॉर्जिया, in southwest मैट्रो अटलांटा सटा to अंतरराज्यीय 85.
बाद नई ownership and renovations in 2006, the नाम was बदला from Shannon Southpark मॉल in 2007 to Union Station Mall.
a previous नवीकरण थी किया in the late 1990s.
the मॉल has been बंद चूंकि November 2010.
This मैप shows the संलग्न संयुक्त States और, in insets at the निम्नतर बाएँ, the दो राज्य कि हैं नहीं contiguous.
The contiguous United राज्य हैं the 48 adjoining u.S. राज्य on the continent of उत्तर अमेरिका कि हैं south of कनाडा और north of Mexico, प्लस the District of Columbia.
the पद excludes the states of अलास्का और Hawaii, and all off-shore U.S. territories and possessions, ऐसे as Puerto रीको.
साथ, the 48 संलग्न states and D.C. occupy a संयुक्त क्षेत्रफल of, जिससे is 1.58 % of the कुल सतह क्षेत्रफल of the धरती.
of इस, is जमीन, composing 83.65 % of u.S. land क्षेत्रफल.
Officially, is water क्षेत्रफल, composing 62.66 % of the स्वदेश 's water क्षेत्रफल.
the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी जनसांख्यिकी थी 306,675,006, composing 99.33 % of the स्वदेश 's जनसांख्यिकी, और a घनत्व of 103.639 inhabitants/sq mi ( 40.015/km2 ), compared to 87.264/sq mi ( 33.692/km2 ) लिये the nation as a whole.
`` क्यों '' is the शीर्षक of a song recorded by अमरीकी देश band Rascal Flatts.
it is the third सिंगल from their छठे स्टुडियो album, Unstoppable.
it थी released to radio stations on सितंबर 29, 2009 और debuted at # 44 on the u.s. बिलबोर्ड us Billboard hot देश Songs चार्ट लिये the सप्ताह of अक्तूबर 10, 2009.
It was written by रोब Mathes और एलन shamblin.
utilization प्रबन्धन is the मूल्यांकन of the appropriateness, medical need और efficiency of स्वास्थ्य care services प्रक्रियाओं and सुविधाएं according to स्थापित मापदण्ड or guidelines और under the provisions of an लागू health लाभ योजना.
Typically it शामिल new क्रियाएँ or decisions आधारित upon the विश्लेषण of a case.
Utilization management describes proactive प्रक्रियाओं, सहित discharge नियोजन, संयुक्त नियोजन, pre-certification and नैदानिक मामला appeals.
It भी कवर proactive processes, such as संयुक्त clinical समीक्षाएँ और peer समीक्षाएँ, as well as appeals introduced by the provider, payer or रोगी.
as pre-certification और concurrent review of cases grew, utilization management spun out of utilization review.
जबकि not synonymous, स्वास्थ्य care professionals tend to उपयोग the शर्तें as interchangeable.
The अंतर is utilization management is और intends to manage स्वास्थ्य परवाह मामले efficiently and cost effectively पहले and दौरान health परवाह प्रशासन.
utilization पुनर्विलोकन is अधिक considering whether health परवाह was appropriately लागू बाद it थी administered.
There हैं चार मौलिक techniques in utilization management:
माँग Management
utilization Review
Case Management
Disease प्रबन्धन
The outsiders is a coming-of-age अनोखा by S. E. hinton, पहला प्रकाशित in 1967 by viking Press.
Hinton थी 15 जब she प्रारंभ writing the novel, लकिन did most of the कार्य when she थी सोलह and a जूनियर in ऊँची स्कूल.
hinton was 18 when the किताब थी published.
the किताब फ़ॉलो two rival समूह, the Greasers और the socs ( सुनाया by the author as, short for socials ), जो are विभाजित by उनके socioeconomic status.
the किताब takes place in तुलसा, ओक्लाहोमा, in 1965, but it is never stated in the किताब.
a film अनुकूलन was produced in 1983, and a little-known short-lived television series appeared in 1990, picking up जहाँ the movie बाएँ बंद.
the United States House of प्रतिनिधि is one of the two houses of the संयुक्त States Congress ( a bicameral विधानमंडल ).
it is अक्सर referred to as the हाउस.
The अन्य house is the सीनेट.
the संयोजन और शक्तियां of the House are established in आलेख एक of the संयुक्त राज्य Constitution.
the major शक्ति of the हाउस is to pass संघीय विधान कि affects the संपूर्ण country although its बिल्स must भी be passed by the Senate and further सहमत to by the u.S. अध्यक्ष पहले becoming विधि ( जबतक both the हाउस और Senate re-pass the legislation साथ a two-thirds majority in प्रत्येक chamber ).
The हाउस रै several exclusive powers : the शक्ति to initiate आय बिल्स, to impeach officials, and to elect the u.S. President in मामला वहीँ is no majority in the Electoral कॉलेज.
प्रत्येक u.S. state is represented in the House in proportion to इसके जनसांख्यिकी लकिन is हकदार to at least एक representative.
The सबसे populous राज्य, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, फिलहाल has 53 प्रतिनिधि.
The total क्रमांक of voting प्रतिनिधि is fixed by विधि at 435.
Each representative serves for a two-year term.
the स्पीकर of the United राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि, जो presides over the chamber, is निर्वाचित by the सदस्यों of the हाउस, और is इसलिए traditionally the नेता of the हाउस Democratic caucus or the हाउस रिपब्लिकन Conference, whichever party रै अधिक मतदान members.
The हाउस meets in the south wing of the United राज्य कैपिटल.
a सप्लाई chain is actually a जटिल और डायनेमिक सप्लाई और demand संजाल.
( cf. wieland/wallenburg, 2011 )
a सप्लाई कड़ी is a प्रणाली of organizations, लोगों, activities, सूचना, and संसाधन शामिल in moving a उत्पाद or service इससे प्रदायक to customer.
Supply कड़ी क्रियाएँ रूपांतरण प्राकृतिक संसाधन, कच्चा materials, और components into a समाप्त product कि is वितरित to the समाप्त customer.
in sophisticated सप्लाई chain प्रणालियों, used उत्पाद may re-enter the सप्लाई कड़ी at कोई पाइंट जहाँ residual मान is recyclable.
सप्लाई chains कड़ी मान जंजीरों.
`` जामुनी haze '' is a song written और recorded by Jimi हेंड्रिक्स in 1967, released as the second सिंगल by The Jimi हेंड्रिक्स अनुभव in both the United किंगडम और the United States.
It बाद appeared on the American version of the बैंड 's 1967 एल्बम हैं तुम Experienced.
`` जामुनी haze '' has become one of the `` archetypical psychedelic ड्रग गीतों of the sixties ''.
`` Purple haze 's '' guitar virtuosic तकनीकों would be emulated by अनेक मेटल guitarists.
a बंद up चित्र of a गैंडा स्किन.
Skin is the नरम outer covering of vertebrates.
Other animal छतरियाँ ऐसे as the सन्धिपाद exoskeleton have अलग developmental origin, ढांचा and रासायनिक composition.
The adjective cutaneous अर्थात् `` of the स्किन '' ( इससे लैटिन cutis, स्किन ).
in स्तनधारियों, the स्किन is the largest organ of the integumentary प्रणाली बना up of अनेक layers of ectodermal ऊतक, and गार्ड the underlying मांसपेशियां, हड्डियों, ligaments और internal organs.
Skin of a different प्रकृति exists in amphibians, सरीसृपों, and पक्षियों.
सब स्तनधारियों have some बाल on उनके स्किन, भी समुद्री स्तनधारियों जिससे appear to be hairless.
the skin interfaces साथ the environment और is the पहला line of रक्षा from बाह्य कारकों.
लिये उदाहरण, the skin plays a key भूमिका in protecting the body विरूद्ध pathogens and excessive जल घाटा.
इसके अन्य कृत्यों हैं इन्सुलेशन, तापमान विनियमन, सनसनी, और the production of विटामिन d folates.
severely damaged स्किन may heal by forming scar ऊतक.
इस is sometimes discoloured और depigmented.
The thickness of skin भी varies from स्थान to location on an सजीव.
in इंसानो लिये example, the स्किन located under the eyes और around the eyelids is the thinnest स्किन in the देह at 0.5 mm मोटा, और is एक of the first क्षेत्रों to show signs of वृद्धावस्था such as `` crows फीट '' और झुर्रियां.
the स्किन on the palms and the सोल्स of the फीट is 4 mm thick और the thickest skin in the देह.
फर is dense बाल.
Primarily, फर augments the इन्सुलेशन the स्किन provides लकिन can also serve as a secondary यौन characteristic or as camouflage.
on कुछ पशु, the skin is very hard and मोटा, और can be processed to create चमड़े.
सरीसृपों और मछली have मुश्किल protective तराजू on their स्किन लिये सुरक्षा, और birds have मुश्किल feathers, सब made of tough β- keratins.
Amphibian स्किन is not a दमदार अवरोध to ड्योढ़ी of chemicals and is प्रायः विषय to परासरण और diffusive शक्तियां.
For example, a frog बैठे in an anesthetic solution होता be sedated quickly, as the chemical diffuses through इसके स्किन.
थामस स्कॉट
the रेव. Thomas स्कॉट ( 1747-1821 ) was an influential उपदेशक और लेखक जो is प्रधानतया ज्ञात लिये उसके best-selling work a commentary on The पूरे बाइबल and the फ़ोर्स of सच्चाई, और as one of the founders of the Church Missionary Society.
डेनियल Radcliffe, who portrays हैरी कुम्हार, has महरूम the icon of the फिल्मी series चूंकि the रिलीज of the पहला film in 2001.
Some of the सबसे renowned अभिनेताओं of the United Kingdom and आयरलैंड have voiced or portrayed वर्ण appearing in the हैरी कुम्हार film series आधारित on the book series by J. K. Rowling.
Daniel radcliffe, रुपर्ट grint और Emma वाटसन have निभाई Harry Potter, रॉन Weasley and Hermione Granger in सब the films.
जब वे were डाल तभी radcliffe था previously acted in a film.
complementing them on screen are ऐसे अभिनेताओं as Helena bonham कार्टर, जिम broadbent, John Cleese, रोबी Coltrane, Warwick डेविस, Ralph fiennes, Michael gambon, Brendan Gleeson, Richard ग्रीफिथ, रिचर्ड Harris, जॉन ठेस, जेसन isaacs, miriam Margolyes, हेलेन mccrory, गेरी oldman, एलन Rickman, Fiona Shaw, मैगी Smith, टिमोथी spall, Imelda staunton, David thewlis, एम्मा थॉम्पसन, और Julie walters, among अन्य.
Thirteen actors have appeared as the same character in सब आठ films of the franchise.
कुछ well-known अंग्रेजों अभिनेताओं जो have not appeared in the श्रेणी, हैं asked in jest क्यों they have नहीं been डाल.
जब David येट्स थी directing the fifth film, विधेयक nighy, जो था previously collaborated साथ येट्स on तीन of उसके टेलीविज़न projects, कहा that he joked with येट्स that संभवतः now he होता n't be the only actor in इंग्लैण्ड who had n't been in हैरी कुम्हार.
`` लकिन nobody पुकारा '', nighy added.
लकिन in 2009, Yates डाल nighy as Minister of Magic Rufus Scrimgeour in deathly hallows.
nighy कहा, `` I am no longer the तभी अंग्रेज़ी actor not to be in हैरी कुम्हार और i am very प्रसन्न. ''
jude विधि has quipped, `` nobody 's पूछा me.
I was a बिट too बूढ़ा लिये हैरी ''.
When a रिपोर्टर compared potions प्राध्यापक होरेस slughorn 's obsession साथ famous names to the series ' कनेक्शन to `` every notable अंग्रेजों कर्ता, '' जिम broadbent, who plays slughorn said, `` Well, not प्रत्येक actor gets आमंत्रित.
I know कुछ who हैं still waiting. ''
With the exception of क्रिस Columbus, प्रत्येक director रै had a cameo रूप in उसके respective फिल्मी : Alfonso cuarón appears as a wizard पकड़कर a candle दौरान a झाँकी at the तीन Broomsticks in कैदी of azkaban ; Mike Newell is सुना briefly as the radio प्रस्तुतकर्ता in Frank Bryce 's house in प्याला of Fire ; और दाउद येट्स features as a wizard भीतर a जादुई moving पोर्ट्रेट in Order of the फीनिक्स.
Producer दाउद heyman भी makes a कैमियो appearance as a जादूगर प्रदर्शित within a जादुई चलती पोर्ट्रेट in the third film, Prisoner of azkaban.
J. K. रोलिंग gave a वाक दौरान the world प्रीमियर of the फाइनल film in the series— हैरी Potter and the deathly Hallows Part 2 —on 7 जुलाई 2011 in लंदन, इंग्लैण्ड.
वो घोषित कि वो could never have dreamt of the प्रतिभाशाली actors और अभिनेत्रियों जो have appeared in सब the हैरी Potter फिल्मों.
रोलिंग भी announced कि there हैं seven हैरी Potter film series cast सदस्यों, जो वो refers to as `` the Big सात '', they are Daniel radcliffe, रुपर्ट grint, एम्मा वाटसन, Tom felton, मैथ्यू Lewis, Evanna Lynch और bonnie Wright.
the list below is sorted by film और अक्षर, as some वर्ण have महरूम portrayed by अनेक अभिनेताओं.
कुंजी
( v ) indicates the कर्ता or अभिनेत्री lent only उसके or उसके voice लिये his or her फिल्मी character
( y ) indicates the actor or अभिनेत्री portrayed the role in a flashback scene or when the अक्षर थी young.
( f ) indicates the कर्ता or अभिनेत्री did नहीं appear in any new फुटेज लिये the film ; फुटेज इससे an earlier film or films was प्रयुक्त.
A लाइट grey कोशिका ( such as the one in the `` Charity Burbage '' पंक्ति in the `` Philosopher 's Stone '' column ) indicates the अक्षर was नहीं in the फिल्मी अनुकूलन.
a twelve-step program is a नियत of guiding principles ( accepted by members as 'spiritual principles, ' based on the स्वीकृत साहित्य ) outlining a कोर्स of कार्रवाई लिये रिकवरी from, compulsion, or other behavioral problems.
Originally proposed by Alcoholics Anonymous ( AA ) as a विधि of रिकवरी from alcoholism, the बारह Steps यहूद first प्रकाशित in the book alcoholics Anonymous : The स्टोरी of कैसा More Than एक सौ मेन have बरामद इससे alcoholism in 1939.
the विधि थी तब adapted and became the न्यास of अन्य twelve-step कार्यक्रम.
As summarized by the अमरीकी Psychological Association, the process involves the following:
admitting कि one can नहीं कंट्रोल एक 's addiction or compulsion ;
recognizing a उच्चतर शक्ति कि can दे strength ;
examining पास्ट errors साथ the सहायता of a प्रायोजक ( experienced member ) ;
बनाना amends for ये errors ;
learning to सजीव a नई जीवन with a नई कोड of बर्ताव ;
helping अन्य जो suffer इससे the same व्यसनों or compulsions.
गवाह महाभियोग, in the विधि of प्रमाण of the United States, is the process of calling into question the विश्वसनीयता of an व्यक्तिगत who is testifying in a trial.
the Federal Rules of Evidence contain the नियम governing impeachment in संघीय न्यायालयों.
Party नेताओ and whips of the संयुक्त राज्य House of प्रतिनिधि हैं elected by उनके respective पार्टियों in a closed-door caucus by secret ballot and are भी ज्ञात as floor leaders.
the U.S. House of प्रतिनिधि does नहीं officially उपयोग the पद `` अल्पसंख्यक नेता '' although the मीडिया frequently do.
The हाउस बजाय uses the terms `` Republican नेता '' or `` लोकतांत्रिक Leader '' depending on जिससे पार्टी holds a अल्पसंख्यक of seats.
the वर्तमान हाउस Majority नेता is रिपब्लिकन Eric Cantor, जबकि the current House अल्पसंख्यक नेता is डेमोक्रेट नैंसी pelosi.
The current हाउस बहुमत चाबुक is रिपब्लिकन केविन मैकार्थी, while the वर्तमान House Minority Whip is डेमोक्रेट steny Hoyer.
Following the outbreak of संसार War I in 1914, the जर्मनी फौज खोली the पश्चिमी सामने by first आक्रमणकारी Luxembourg और Belgium, then gaining military control of महत्वपूर्ण industrial regions in France.
The tide of the advance थी dramatically turned with the बैटल of the marne.
following the race to the समुद्र, दोनो sides dug in साथ a meandering लकीर of fortified trenches, stretching from the North Sea to the स्विस frontier साथ France.
This लकीर remained essentially अपरिवर्तित लिये most of the युद्ध.
between 1915 और 1917 वहीँ यहूद अनेक प्रमुख offensives साथ this front.
The attacks employed massive तोपखाने bombardments और massed infantry advances.
however, a संयोजन of entrenchments, machine गन nests, कंटीले तार, and तोपखाने repeatedly inflicted severe casualties on the हमलावर and counterattacking defenders.
as a परिणाम, no significant अग्रिम यहूद made.
Among the सबसे costly of these offensives were the Battle of verdun with a combined [ अनुमानित ] 700,000 मुर्दे, the बैटल of the somme साथ more than [ an अनुमानित ] लाख हताहत, और the Battle of Passchendaele साथ roughly [ an अनुमानित ] 600,000 हताहत.
in an effort to ब्रेक the deadlock, इस front saw the परिचय of नई military प्रौद्योगिकी, सहित poison गैस, वायुयान and tanks.
लकिन it थी तभी बाद the अपनाना of improved tactics कि कुछ उपाधि of गतिशीलता was लौटी.
The जर्मनी Spring अप्रिय of 1918 थी made संभावित by the सन्धि of brest-litovsk कि चिह्नित the end of the विरोध on the Eastern Front.
using the recently-introduced घुसपैठ tactics, the जर्मनी सेना advanced nearly to the west, जिससे चिह्नित the deepest अग्रिम by either side since 1914 और बहुत nearly succeeded in forcing a breakthrough.
in spite of the generally stagnant प्रकृति of इस front, this थिएटर होता prove decisive.
The inexorable advance of the अलाइड सेना दौरान the second half of 1918 persuaded the जर्मनी commanders कि शिकस्त was अपरिहार्य, और the government थी मजबूर to sue लिये शर्तें of an armistice.
The terms of सलाम यहूद सहमत upon with the हस्ताक्षर of the सन्धि of Versailles in 1919.
The following is a सूची of पुनरावर्ती और नाबालिग characters in the Disney चैनल Original Series the सुइट जीवन of Zack & Cody.
ये characters were regularly घुमाया, often disappearing लिये long अवधि during the श्रेणी.
The following सूची of वर्ण रै been sorted alphabetically, by first नाम.
Some of the वर्ण had no पिछला नाम and सबसे यहूद commonly referred to by their first नाम so this appeared to be the most लॉजिकल विधि.
In the मामला of शेफ़ पाउलो, who था no known पहला नाम, वे have been सूचीबद्ध by शीर्षक.
The First महिला of the United राज्य ( flotus ) is the hostess of the श्वेत हाउस.
क्युकी इस स्थिति is traditionally filled by the wife of the अध्यक्ष of the United राज्य, the title is सबसे often लागू to the बीवी of a sitting president.
the current पहला महिला is मिशेल ओबामा.
बाद उसके husband Barack ओबामा थी re-elected on November 6, 2012, वो is अनुसूचित to serve जबतक जनवरी 20, 2017.
Septic shock is a medical condition as a result of कठोर संक्रमण and सेप्सिस, though the microbe may be systemic or स्थानीयकृत to a particular site.
it can cause multiple अंग dysfunction सिंड्रोम ( formerly ज्ञात as अनेक अंग विफलता ) और मौत.
इसके सबसे आम victims हैं children, immunocompromised individuals, और the elderly, as उनके प्रतिरक्षा प्रणालियों can नहीं deal साथ the संक्रमण as effectively as those of स्वस्थ वयस्कों.
Frequently, patients कष्ट इससे septic शॉक are cared लिये in intensive परवाह units.
the मृत्यु rate इससे सेप्टिक शॉक is लगभग 25–50 %.
Kevin brereton ( born फ़रवरी 20, 1972 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम k-os ( ; `` chaos '' ), is a कनाडाई rapper, सिंगर, songwriter और रिकार्ड निर्माता.
उसके given name may भी be cited as kheaven, a स्पेलिंग he बाद अपनाया.
the alias `` k-os '', spelled साथ a lower case `` k '', was intended to be कम aggressive than the pseudonyms of अन्य rappers whose names were सब अपर मामला, such as KRS-One.
it is an एक्रोनिम लिये `` ज्ञान of Self, '' हालांकि in a later interview he said कि it originally stood for `` केविन 's असली ध्वनि. '' k-os ' music incorporates a wide किस्में of म्यूज़िक genres, सहित रैप, funk, चट्टान, और रेगी.
the lyrics अक्सर फ़ोकस on promoting a `` positive संदेश '' जबकि at टाइम्स expressing आलोचना of mainstream हिप हॉप संस्कृति 's obsession with धन, fame और glorification of हिंसा.
a संगीतकार as खूब as a निर्माता, k-os has लिखा and उत्पादित nearly प्रत्येक part of all चार of his एल्बम.
k-os usually performs साथ a सजीव band, कुछ कि is uncommon in the हिप हॉप genre.
he sometimes plays guitar और keyboard दोनो दौरान live performances और in the studio.
k-os received उसके first musical exposure with the सिंगल `` musical essence '', released in 1993.
बाद the रिलीज of his दूसरी single `` वृद्धि Like the Sun '' in 1996, he withdrew इससे the industry क्युकी he थी dissatisfied with उसके musical स्टाइल.
He reappeared briefly in 1999 and released his डेब्यू album Exit in 2002.
the album received धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ but sold relatively few नक़ल.
He released his दूसरी एल्बम आनन्द विद्रोह in 2004, जिससे received प्लेटिनम औकात in Canada.
a तीसरा एल्बम,, was released in 2006 और also गई प्लेटिनम.
His fourth album, यस !
, थी released in 2009.
उसके पांचवां album ब्लैक on सुनहरे थी released in 2013.
The आधिकारिक 2007 संस्करण of the UCC.
भी the confidential अशिष्ट drafts of the UCC यहूद saved और प्रकाशित as a 10-volume नियत.
The Uniform वाणिज्यिक Code ( ucc or the कोड ), पहला प्रकाशित in 1952, is एक of a number of uniform अधिनियमों that have been promulgated in संयोजन with प्रयत्न to harmonize the विधि of बिक्री and अन्य वाणिज्यिक ट्रांजेक्शन in सब 50 states भीतर the United राज्य of अमेरिका.
multi-pitch चढ़ाई is the ascent of चढ़ाई रूट with one or अधिक stops at a belay station.
प्रत्येक खण्ड of वास्तविक चढ़ाई between stops at the belay stations is पुकारा a pitch.
the leader ascends the pitch, रखकर गियर और stopping to लंगर themselves to the belay स्टेशन.
the कारण for the stops can be determined by चुनाव, सम्मेलन or necessity.
लिये example:
the rope is too छोटी to do the संपूर्ण route in one पिच ( necessity ).
the नेता रै चलाएं out of सुरक्षात्मक gear ( necessity ).
There is a सुविधाजनक protectable कगार, or फिक्स्ड bolts लगाई by पिछला चढना, at the स्थान लिये a belay स्टेशन ( सम्मेलन ).
the leader chooses to rest or एक्सचेंज लीड before the अगला खण्ड of the climb ( choice ).
the सामान्य purpose of ये stops is to allow the दूसरी to ascend to the पाइंट of the सीसे climber while collecting the protective गियर इससे the रूट in the कोर्स of the lead climber 's ascent.
at the belay station, the protective गियर is एकत्रित, संभवतः exchanged to a new नेता, and the leader of the next पिच ascends the route.
A diagram प्रर्दशित an I गठन on ठोकर and a 4-3 गठन on रक्षा
in American football, each टोली has ग्यारह खिलाड़ी on the field at एक time.
the विशिष्ट भूमिका that a खिलाड़ी takes on the फ़ील्ड is पुकारा उनके स्थिति.
अंतर्गत the modern नियम of अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल, टीमों are allowed असीमित subsititutions, that is teams may बदलें कोई number of players after any खेल.
इस रै resulted in the development of तीन `` platoons '' of खिलाड़ी, the offense ( the टोली साथ the बॉल, who is trying to स्कोर ), the defense ( the टोली trying to prevent the अन्य टोली from स्कोरिंग, and to take the बॉल from उन्हें ), और the खास टीमों ( जो खेल in kicking situations ).
भीतर those platoons, विभिन्न विशिष्ट स्थितियाँ मौजूद depending on कया the खिलाड़ी 's प्रमुख job is.
the नियंत्रित substances अधिनियम ( CSA ) was enacted into विधि by the कॉंग्रेस of the संयुक्त राज्य as शीर्षक ii of the व्यापक Drug गाली Prevention and कंट्रोल अधिनियम of 1970.
the CSA is the संघीय U.S. drug नीति under which the manufacture, importation, कब्ज़ा, उपयोग और वितरण of निश्चित substances is regulated.
the अधिनियम भी परोसा as the नेशनल implementing legislation for the Single सम्मेलन on Narcotic दवाएँ.
The legislation created five Schedules ( classifications ), साथ varying योग्यता for a पदार्थ to be शामिल in प्रत्येक.
Two संघीय agencies, the ड्रग प्रवर्तन प्रशासन and the खाना and ड्रग प्रशासन, determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules, though the statute passed by कॉंग्रेस निर्मित the आरंभिक listing, and कॉंग्रेस रै sometimes अनुसूचित other substances through legislation ऐसे as the hillory J. farias और सामन्था reid Date-Rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of 2000, जिससे placed गामा hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I. वर्गीकरण निर्णय are जरूरी to be made on criteria सहित potential लिये गाली ( an undefined पद ), currently स्वीकृत चिकित्सा use in treatment in the United राज्य, और अंतरराष्ट्रीय treaties.
The वेन रूट 23 पारगमन Center is a नई Jersey Transit park-and-ride station in वेन, New जर्सी साथ the Montclair-Boonton लकीर कि provides बस सेवा to नई यॉर्क City and various other points in the क्षेत्रफल as well as Montclair-Boonton लकीर ट्रैन सेवा to New York, hoboken, और intermediate points साथ the line between Hackettstown and Montclair राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों.
It is located off of the southbound गलियों of नई जर्सी रूट 23 on West Belt सड़क, near the इंटरचेंज where रूट 23, अंतरराज्यीय 80, और U.S. रूट 46 meet, across इससे the Willowbrook मॉल.
The स्टेशन opened in जनवरी 2008 और रै 1,000 पार्किंग स्पेसेस.
New Jersey Transit intends for इस संयुक्त रेल और bus station to become an `` interceptor स्टेशन, '' कि will सहायता relieve the habitual जमघट at the वेस्ट Belt सड़क Interchange, जहाँ the तीन प्रमुख highways मिलें.
in जोड, the निर्माण of the स्टेशन was meant to also आसानी the congestion at कया was तब रूट 23 पार्क & सवारी, a बस डिपो on रूट 23 उत्तर that रै चूंकि महरूम renamed माँ 's पार्क & सवारी, और the Willowbrook मॉल पार्क & सवारी ; the now-Mother 's साईट had सीमित पार्किंग जबकि NJT was having ट्रबल साथ overfull पार्किंग क्षेत्रों at willowbrook.
the वेन township बस garage is located on the opposite पक्ष of रूट 23.
वहीँ has been a proposal to निर्माण a पार्किंग डेक साथ another thousand spots and develop the land at the station.
in addition to Montclair-Boonton रेल, the पारगमन Center is परोसा by the following नई जर्सी पारगमन bus लकीरs:
75 to न्यूर्क penn Station and Butler
194 to बंदरगाहों Authority Bus टर्मिनल और Butler/Newfoundland
198 to Port प्राधिकार बस टर्मिनल और William Paterson विश्वविद्यालयों
324 to Port प्राधिकार और वेन रूट 23
748 to Willowbrook मॉल और paterson
the at चिह्न @ is भी commonly पुकारा the at symbol, ampersat, apetail or वाणिज्यिक at in english—and less commonly a चौड़ी दायरा of other terms.
the फैक्ट कि वहीँ is no single शब्द in अंग्रेज़ी for the प्रतीक has prompted कुछ writers to उपयोग the फ्रेंच arobase or Spanish और पुर्तगाली arroba—or to सिक्का नई शब्द ऐसे as asperand, ampersat—but none of ये रै achieved चौड़ी करेंसी.
originally an accounting और वाणिज्यिक चालान संक्षिप्त meaning `` at the रेट of '' ( e.g. 7 widgets @ $ 2 = $ 14 ), it थी नहीं included on the keyboard of the earliest commercially successful typewriters, लकिन थी on at least एक 1889 मॉडल और the बहुत successful Underwood मॉडल from the `` underwood No. 5 '' in 1900 onward.
it is now universally included on कंप्यूटर keyboards.
in recent सालो, इसके meaning रै grown to शामिल the भाव of होने `` स्तिथ at, '' `` and, '' or `` निर्देशित at '', especially in ईमेल addresses और सोशल मीडिया, विशेषकर ट्विटर.
the mark is एनकोडेड at.
the Catcher in the Rye is a 1951 novel by J. D. Salinger.
originally प्रकाशित for वयस्कों, it has चूंकि become लोकप्रिय with adolescent readers लिये इसके themes of teenage angst and alienation.
it रै महरूम अनूदित into लगभग सब of the world 's major languages.
around 250,000 copies are बेची each साल साथ कुल बिक्री of more than 65 million books.
the अनोखा 's समर्थक और antihero, Holden caulfield, रै become an icon लिये teenage rebellion.
the अनोखा थी शामिल on Times 2005 list of the 100 best english-language novels लिखा चूंकि 1923, and it थी named by Modern पुस्तकालयों और इसके पाठक as one of the 100 best english-language novels of the 20th सदी.
it has महरूम अक्सर challenged in the United States and other देशों for इसके उदार use of profanity और portrayal of sexuality.
It also deals with जटिल issues of identity, belonging, connection, और alienation.
skeletal मांसपेशियां homo sapiens
This is a table of muscles of the human anatomy.
There are लगभग 642 skeletal muscles भीतर the ठेठ इंसान, और लगभग प्रत्येक मांसपेशी constitutes one भाग of a pair of एकसमान bilateral मांसपेशियां, found on दोनो पहलू, resulting in approximately 320 pairs of मांसपेशियां, as प्रस्तुत in इस article.
Nevertheless, the सटीक क्रमांक is मुश्किल to define क्युकी different sources group muscles differently, e.g. regarding what is defined as अलग parts of a सिंगल muscle or as अनेक muscles.
उदाहरण दायरा इससे 640 to 850.
the मांसपेशियां of the इंसान body can be categorized into a क्रमांक of समूह which शामिल मांसपेशियां relating to the सिर और गर्दन, muscles of the धड़ or ट्रंक, मांसपेशियां of the अपर limbs, and मांसपेशियां of the निम्नतर limbs.
the action refers to the कार्रवाई of each मांसपेशी from the मानक anatomical स्थिति.
in अन्य positions, अन्य actions may be performed.
ख़राब Girls Club ( bgc ) is an अमरीकी वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी created by जोनाथन मरे for the ऑक्सीजन television स्टेशन.
The दिखाएँ centers on seven feisty और mischievous women with different पृष्ठभूमि और personalities, who have a number of मनोवैज्ञानिक and behavioral problems.
वे हैं introduced to the show बंद their घातक बर्ताव और accomplish specific लक्ष्य.
The डाल, deemed `` ख़राब girls '', आनंद a luxurious जीवनशैली in a fine mansion for three महीने, दौरान जिससे वे जरूर obey specified rules.
Their जीवनदान अंदर – और outside – of the हाउस हैं chronicled and recorded by the production टोली.
The ख़राब लड़कियों क्लबों is ब्रॉडकास्ट in five देशों ( United States, नीदरलैंड्स, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Hungary, और स्वीडन ).
It रै प्राप्त ऋणात्मक समीक्षाएँ इससे critics, जो believe the show promotes हिंसा by adolescent viewers.
Furthermore, several डाल सदस्यों made विवादास्पद remarks जिससे outraged अनेक viewers.
The स्वरूप of the show रै बदला from जल्दी seasons.
If a `` ख़राब लड़की '' ब्रेक a rule, she is evicted इससे the show and, if it is जल्दी in the season, replaced by a new `` ख़राब लड़की ''.
There have been नौ पूरा सीज़न of The Bad लड़कियों क्लबों, with the दसवाँ season फिलहाल airing.
the चौथी season था the highest ratings in the show 's इतिहास, becoming इसके `` breakthrough ऋतु ''.
वहीँ have been three spin-offs of the Bad Girls क्लबों.
एक of उन्हें, Love Games : ख़राब लड़कियों Need Love too, जहाँ past cast सदस्यों तलाश सच्चा प्रेम, has gained high ratings.
Oxygen रै भी released a mobile खेल, कॉमिक strip और merchandise to प्रचार the दिखाएँ.
of the 92 प्रतियोगी, केरी Harvick ( of ऋतु एक ) was a कामयाब country singer पहले the दिखाएँ.
tanisha थामस ( of ऋतु two ) later hosted ऑक्सीजन 's OxygenLive !
और the subsequent सीज़न of प्रेम खेल : ख़राब लड़कियों need प्रेम too.
Thomas, who has महरूम dubbed the `` godmother '' to सब contestants, रै her own टेलीविज़न documentary हकदार Tanisha gets शादीशुदा.
as of ऋतु 8 वो 's महरूम the host of the reunion specials.
The Iowa सीनेट is the अपर हाउस of the आयोवा सामान्य Assembly.
वहीँ are 50 seats in the आयोवा Senate, representing 50 single-member districts आरपार the राज्य साथ populations of लगभग 60,927 प्रति constituency,.
Each सीनेट district is रचित of two हाउस जिले.
the Senate meets at the आयोवा राज्य कैपिटल in देस Moines.
Unlike the lower हाउस, the Iowa House of Representatives, सीनेटरों serve four-year terms, साथ हाफ of the Senate staggered for re-election प्रत्येक two सालो.
There are no पद हद for the Senate.
mechanical मरम्मत
मेंटेनेंस, मरम्मत, और operations ( MRO ) or maintenance, repair, and overhaul involves fixing कोई sort of mechanical, plumbing or electrical यंत्र चाहिए it become out of अनुक्रम or टूटा ( ज्ञात as repair, unscheduled or casualty मेंटेनेंस ).
it also शामिल performing routine actions which keep the यंत्र in working अनुक्रम ( known as scheduled मेंटेनेंस ) or prevent ट्रबल इससे arising ( preventive मेंटेनेंस ).
mro may be पारिभाषित as, `` All क्रियाएँ which have the उद्देश्य of retaining or restoring an मद in or to a state in जिससे it can perform its जरूरी function.
The actions शामिल the संयोजन of सब technical और सम्बन्धित प्रशासनिक, managerial, and पर्यवेक्षण actions. ''
MRO परिचालन can be categorised by whether the उत्पाद remains the प्रॉपर्टी of the ग्राहक, i.e. a service is होने offered, or whether the उत्पाद is खरीदा by the reprocessing संगठन and sold to कोई ग्राहक wishing to मेक the खरीदें ( Guadette, 2002 ).
in the former case it may be a backshop आपरेशन भीतर a larger organisation or smaller operation.
The पूर्व of these represents a बंद लूप supply chain और usually रै the scope of maintenance, repair or of the उत्पाद.
the latter of the categorisations is an खोलें लूप सप्लाई कड़ी और is typified by refurbishment और remanufacture.
the प्रमुख characteristic of the closed लूप system is that the demand लिये a उत्पाद is matched with the सप्लाई of a used product.
Neglecting एसेट write-offs और असाधारण क्रियाएँ the कुल जनसांख्यिकी of the उत्पाद between the ग्राहक और the सेवा प्रदाता remains constant.
Prince William, ड्यूक of Cambridge ( विलियम Arthur Philip लुई ; born 21 जून 1982 ), is the elder बेटे of चार्ल्स, प्रिंस of वेल्स, and डायना, राजकुमारी of Wales, और third-eldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth ii और Prince फिलिप, Duke of एडिनबर्ग.
he is second in the लकीर of succession, पीछे his पिता, to the तख्तों of sixteen स्वतंत्र sovereign states ज्ञात as the राष्ट्रमंडल realms : the संयुक्त किंगडम, Canada, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, नई Zealand, Jamaica, बारबाडोस, The बहामा, Grenada, Papua New गिनी, the सुलेमान आइलैंड्स, Tuvalu, संत Lucia, Saint Vincent और the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua और बारबूडा, और संत Kitts और नेविस.
Prince William was शिक्षित at चार schools in the United Kingdom और प्राप्त a उपाधि इससे the विश्वविद्यालयों of st एंड्रयूज.
He spent parts of a gap year in Chile, बेलीज़, तंजानिया, and कीनिया जहाँ he रै lived and holidayed अनेक टाइम्स.
प्रिंस विलियम रै भी लिया kiswahili studies at विश्वविद्यालयों in Kenya और तंजानिया.
He थी commissioned as a Lieutenant in the Blues and रॉयल्स रेजीमेंट of the Household प्यादे —serving साथ his brother Prince हैरी —and, दो सालो बाद, अर्जित his विंग्स by completing पायलट training at Royal एयर फ़ोर्स कॉलेज Cranwell.
in 2009, he transferred to the Royal एयर Force, थी प्रचारित to उड़ान लेफ्टिनेंट और underwent helicopter flying training in order to become a full-time पायलट with the ढूंढें और Rescue फ़ोर्स.
In 2010, he completed उसके general and special-to-type helicopter प्रशिक्षण और गई on to raf Valley on no. 22 Squadron performing co-pilot कर्तव्य on board a Sea King search और बचाव हेलीकाप्टर.
Prince विलियम married उसके longtime गर्लफ्रेंड, कैथरीन Middleton, on 29 अप्रैल 2011 at वेस्टमिंस्टर ऐबी.
घंटों prior to his wedding, Prince विलियम थी निर्मित ड्यूक of कैम्ब्रिज, अर्ल of Strathearn, और सामन्त carrickfergus.
deandre Cortez रास्ता ( born जुलाई 28, 1990 ), बेहतर known by उसके स्टेज नाम soulja लड़के Tell 'em, or बस Soulja लड़के, is an American rapper, record निर्माता, कर्ता, and उद्योगों.
in सितंबर 2007, his सिंगल `` Crank कि ( soulja Boy ) `` reached क्रमांक one on the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100.
The single थी initially self-published on the अंतरजाल, and it बाद became a number-one hit in the United States लिये सात non-consecutive सप्ताह starting in September 2007.
On अगस्त 17 Way थी listed at # 18 on the Forbes सूची of hip-hop नकदी किंग्स of 2010 earning $ 7 लाख लिये that साल.
Way has currently released three studio एल्बम and one स्वतंत्र album : उसके डेब्यू स्टुडियो एल्बम souljaboytellem.com ( 2007 ) थी certified platinum by the riaa.
however, his अगला two एल्बम, isouljaboytellem ( 2008 ) और the DeAndre रास्ता ( 2010 ) did नहीं match the वाणिज्यिक success of उसके डेब्यू, the latter तभी selling 100,000 copies, despite the कामयाबी of अनेक singles आरपार दोनो albums, ऐसे as `` चुंबन Me thru the Phone `` और `` फेरे My swag On `` ( isouljaboytellem ) और `` pretty Boy swag `` ( the DeAndre Way ).
इस was मुख्यतः due to negotiation समस्याएं साथ Interscope रिकॉर्ड जिससे meant a सीमित राशि of रिकॉर्ड यहूद बना available to the public.
as of 2011, रास्ता रै confirmed he is working on उसके चौथी studio album, entitled USA ड्रे, जिससे will be released in 2013.
The इलेक्ट्रॉन transport chain in the mitochondrion is the site of oxidative phosphorylation in eukaryotes.
the nadh and succinate उत्पन्न in the साइट्रिक एसिड साईकिल हैं oxidized, providing उर्जा to शक्ति ATP synthase.
photosynthetic इलेक्ट्रॉन transport कड़ी of the thylakoid झिल्ली.
an electron हस्तांतरण कड़ी ( ETC ) युगल electron transfer between an इलेक्ट्रॉन दाता ( such as NADH ) और an इलेक्ट्रॉन acceptor ( such as O2 ) with the transfer of H+ ions ( protons ) आरपार a membrane.
The resulting electrochemical प्रोटॉन अनुपात is प्रयुक्त to generate रासायनिक उर्जा in the रूप of एडीनोसिन ट्राइफॉस्फेट ( ATP ).
इलेक्ट्रॉन हस्तांतरण chains हैं the सेल्यूलर mechanisms प्रयुक्त लिये extracting energy from sunlight in photosynthesis and भी इससे redox reactions, such as the ऑक्सीकरण of sugars ( श्वसन ).
In chloroplasts, लाइट drives the परिवर्तन of जल to oxygen और NADP+ to nadph साथ transfer of H+ ions आरपार हरितलवक झिल्लियों.
In mitochondria, it is the परिवर्तन of ऑक्सीजन to जल, NADH to NAD+ and succinate to fumarate that हैं required to generate the proton gradient.
इलेक्ट्रॉन transport जंजीरों हैं प्रमुख साइट of असामयिक electron leakage to ऑक्सीजन, generating superoxide and potentially resulting in increased oxidative तनाव.
tramadol hydrochloride ( trademarked as Conzip, ryzolt, ultracet, Ultram in the यूएसए, ralivia, zytram xl Durella { cr-100/200 mg } in Canada or adolonta in स्पेन ) is a centrally एक्टिंग सिंथेटिक analgesic used to treat मॉडरेट to moderately कठोर पीड़ा.
the ड्रग रै a चौड़ी दायरा of अनुप्रयोग, including treatment of आमवातीय arthritis, बेचैन legs syndrome, मोटर neurone बीमारी और fibromyalgia.
It was launched और marketed as Tramal by the जर्मनी pharmaceutical company Grünenthal gmbh in 1977.
tramadol is a कमजोर μ-opioid receptor agonist कि भी induces serotonin release and inhibits the reuptake of norepinephrine.
tramadol is metabolized to o-desmethyltramadol, a significantly more potent μ-opioid agonist.
tramadol and इसके major metabolite ( s ) हैं विशिष्ट इससे अन्य more potent opioid agonists by सापेक्ष selectivity लिये μ-opioid receptors.
बर्नार्ड लॉरेंस `` बर्नी '' madoff ( ; born April 29, 1938 ) is an American पूर्व stockbroker, निवेश सलाहकार, फाइनेंसर, और श्वेत collar दण्ड.
he is the पूर्व non-executive अध्यक्ष of the नैस्डैक भण्डार मार्केट, and the admitted operator of a पेन्शन योजना that is considered to be the largest वित्तीय धोखाधड़ी in u.S. इतिहास.
Madoff founded the वॉल गली कड़ Bernard L. madoff निवेश Securities llc in 1960, and was its chairman जबतक उसके arrest on December 11, 2008.
the firm थी एक of the top मार्केट मेकर businesses on वॉल गली, जिससे bypassed `` विशेषज्ञ '' firms by directly executing आदेश over the काउंटर इससे खुदरा brokers.
he employed at the firm his bhai Peter as Senior Managing निदेशक और मुख्य अनुपालन अधिकारी ; पीटर रै since महरूम sentenced to 10 सालो in prison.
पीटर 's daughter shana madoff as the कड़ 's rules और compliance अधिकारी और attorney, और his बेटे Andrew और चिह्नित ( चिह्नित वचनबद्ध suicide by hanging exactly दो सालो after his पिता 's arrest ).
on दिसम्बर 10, 2008, Madoff 's sons told authorities that उनके father था confessed to them that the एसेट प्रबन्धन ईकाई of his firm थी a विशाल पेन्शन scheme, और quoted उसे as describing it as `` one big झूठ. ''
the following दिन, एफबीआई एजेंटों गिरफ्तार Madoff and charged उसे with एक गिनती of securities धोखाधड़ी.
The u.S. Securities and एक्सचेंज Commission ( सेक ) था previously conducted investigations into Madoff 's कारोबार practices, लकिन did not uncover the विशाल धोखाधड़ी.
in March 2009, Madoff pleaded अपराधी to 11 federal felonies और admitted to turning his माल प्रबन्धन कारोबार into a massive पेन्शन योजना that झांसे हज़ारों of investors of अरबों of dollars.
Madoff कहा he began the Ponzi scheme in the जल्दी 1990s.
however, संघीय investigators मानना the धोखाधड़ी began as जल्दी as the 1970s, और those चार्ज साथ recovering the लापता धन मानना the निवेश आपरेशन may never have been legitimate.
The राशि missing from क्लाएंट accounts, सहित fabricated gains, थी लगभग $ 65 billion.
the court-appointed ट्रस्टी estimated actual नुकसान to investors of $ 18 अरब.
on जून 29, 2009, he was sentenced to 150 सालो in थाना, the maximum अनुमत.
Administrative पेशेवर Day ( also ज्ञात as secretaries Day or एडमिन Day ) is an unofficial secular अवकाश observed in अनेक देशों to recognize the कार्य of secretaries, administrative assistants, receptionists, और other प्रशासनिक support professionals.
in उत्तर अमेरिका, it is celebrated on the बुधवार of the पिछला पूरा week of April ( अप्रैल 24 in 2013 ).
in France it is मनाये on the third गुरुवार in अप्रैल ( अप्रैल 18 in 2013 ).
in ऑस्ट्रेलिया it is मनाये on the first शुक्रवार in may
A quasi-judicial body is an एंटिटी such as an arbitrator or ट्रिब्यूनल फलक, generally of a पब्लिक प्रशासनिक एजेंसी, जिससे has powers and procedures resembling those of a अदालत of law or judge, और जिससे is obligated to objectively determine तथ्य और चित्रण conclusions इससे them so as to provide the आधार of an official कार्रवाई.
ऐसे actions हैं समर्थ to उपाय a हालात or थोपने विधिक दंड, and may affect the legal अधिकारों, कर्तव्य or privileges of specific पार्टियों.
स्मारक of tycho Brahe and Johannes कॅप्लर in Prague
tycho ब्राहे ( 14 December 154624 October 1601 ), born Tyge Ottesen ब्राहे, थी a डैनिश nobleman ज्ञात लिये उसके accurate and व्यापक खगोलीय and planetary observations.
He was born in स्कैनिया, then भाग of Denmark, अभी part of modern-day स्वीडन.
Tycho was खूब known in उसके आजीवन as an astronomer and alchemist.
in उसके De नोवा स्टेला ( On the नई स्टार ) of 1573, he refuted the aristotelian विश्वास in an अपरिवर्तनशील celestial realm.
His precise measurements indicated कि `` नई stars, '' ( stellae novae, now ज्ञात as supernovae ) in particular कि of 1572, lacked the parallax अपेक्षित in sub-lunar phenomena, and were therefore नहीं `` atmospheric '' tailless धूमकेतुओं as previously believed, लकिन यहूद above the माहौल और moon.
using समान माप he दिखाया that comets were also नहीं atmospheric phenomena, as previously विचार, and जरूर pass through the माना `` immutable '' celestial spheres.
As an astronomer, tycho worked to combine कया he saw as the geometrical benefits of the copernican प्रणाली with the philosophical लाभ of the Ptolemaic प्रणाली into उसके own मॉडल of the ब्रह्मांड, the tychonic system.
furthermore, he थी the पिछला of the प्रमुख naked eye खगोलशास्त्रियों, working बगैर telescopes लिये उसके observations.
tycho ब्राहे थी granted an estate on the द्वीप of hven और the funding to build the uraniborg, an जल्दी शोध संस्थान, जहाँ he built large astronomical instruments and took अनेक careful measurements, and बाद stjerneborg, underground, when he खोजा कि उसके यंत्र in the पूर्व were नहीं sufficiently स्थिर.
on the island ( on जिससे he demonstrated निरंकुश character and बर्ताव toward the निवासियों ) he संस्थापित manufactories ऐसे as paper-making to provide सामग्री लिये मुद्रण his परिणाम.
After disagreements साथ the नई Danish किंग Christian IV in 1597, he was आमंत्रित by the Bohemian king और पावन Roman सम्राट rudolph ii to प्राग, जहाँ he became the आधिकारिक imperial astronomer.
He निर्मित the नई observatory at benátky nad jizerou.
यहाँ, इससे 1600 until उसके मौत in 1601, he थी assisted by Johannes कॅप्लर जो later प्रयुक्त Tycho 's खगोलीय data to develop Kepler 's laws of ग्रहीय गति.
guro ज़िला ( guro-gu ) is a district of Seoul, दक्षिण कोरियाई, जिससे थी separated from yeongdeungpo ज़िला on अप्रैल 1, 1980.
Located in the southwestern भाग of the city, जहाँ besides yangcheon ज़िला और Geumcheon ज़िला Guro ज़िला रै an important स्थिति as a transport कड़ी which contains railroads, जमीन रूट from the rest of Seoul to the दक्षिण of the देश.
The gyeongbu और gyeongin रेल लाइनों कनेक्ट Seoul to बुसान और इंचियोन.
in addition, सियोल महानगर Subway लाइनों 1, 2, और 7, and प्रमुख राजमार्गों प्रतिच्छेद in guro ज़िला.
the नाम guro originates इससे the लेजेंड कि नौ ( ) old मेन ( कोरियाई : ro ) enjoyed longevity in the ज़िला.
A digital औद्योगिक complex is स्तिथ in guro District.
the Guro डिजिटल औद्योगिक Complex, which निभाई a अग्रणी industrial role मुख्यतः साथ textile निर्माण, dressmaking and अन्य labour-intensive industries in 1967, has महरूम rapidly changed into an it औद्योगिक complex.
इस जटिल निभाई a pivotal भूमिका in the economic विकास of the South कोरियाई 's development era, referred to as the `` चमत्कार on the Han River ``, और also contributed 10 प्रतिशत of नेशनल export in the 1970s.
twenty-one प्रतिशत of the total area of guro District is a प्रतिबंधित मण्डल to be used as a greenbelt साथ the only arboretum in सियोल.
the zone is changing into a जीवंत ज़िला as विशाल labour-intensive कारखानों are moving इससे the area और the council is विकासशील what it शर्तें इसके चार zones.
an `` e-government `` system आधारित on this hosted the अंतरराष्ट्रीय e-participation फ़ोरम on फ़रवरी 7–9, 2007, साथ the भागीदारी of अधिक than thirty-seven countries.
the फ़ोरम was launched with the theme `` Promoting लोकतंत्र और Regional Development '' and twenty-five mayors सहित आंद्रे Santini ( issy-les-moulineaux, France ), केविन foy ( Chapel Hill, us ), Apirak kosayothin ( बैंकॉक, Thailand ), uvais Mohamed emthiyas ( Colombo, श्री लंका ), और संसार विशेषज्ञ ऐसे as dr विलियम H. dutton ( निदेशक of Oxford अंतरजाल Institute at the University of ऑक्सफोर्ड, UK ) and Dr ari-veiko anttiroiko ( प्राध्यापक at the University of tampere, Finland ) participated in the forum.
the Guro Declaration, अपनाया दौरान the फ़ोरम, aims to नियत up a पोर्टल site लिये e-government विकास and to स्थापित a कंक्रीट प्रोजेक्ट in अनुक्रम to bridge the digital divide among the world 's शहरों.
This practice रै महरूम recognised for providing a new important कदम in the development of e-democracy.
The e-participation फ़ोरम थी a कुंजी फ़ैक्टर लिये guro to खेल the अग्रणी role in bridging the digital divide among शहरों, to provide I.T. उद्यमों स्तिथ in Guro Digital औद्योगिक जटिल the opportunity to launch into the अंतरराष्ट्रीय market, to improve its image और become a global leader to concrete e-democracy.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय e-participation फ़ोरम on फ़रवरी 7–9, 2007
a wonton ( also spelled wantan, wanton, or wuntun in transcription from cantonese ; मंदारिन : húndùn ) is a प्रकार of dumpling commonly मिला in a क्रमांक of चाइनीज व्यंजन.
Many लोगों यहूद involved in the आविष्कार of radio as we अभी know it.
अनेक संभावित विधि of बेतार संचार were considered, including आगमनात्मक और capacitive induction और हस्तांतरण through the मैदान, however the method प्रयुक्त लिये radio today exclusively involves the transmission और reception of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक waves.
After early अटकलें on the विषय, प्रायोगिक work on the कनेक्शन between विद्युत and magnetism began around 1820 with the work of Hans Christian ओर्स्टेड and जारी साथ the work of andré-marie एम्पीयर, जोसेफ हेनरी, and माइकल Faraday.
ये investigations culminated in the पूरा सिद्धान्त of विद्युत्चुम्बकत्व developed by James Clerk Maxwell.
इस सिद्धान्त described the सैद्धांतिक आधार of the propagation of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक waves.
After Maxwell 's theory थी published many people experimented with बेतार communication, some intentionally using Maxwell 's theory कुछ नहीं.
it is considered likely कि the first जानबूझकर transmission of a सिग्नल by अर्थात् of electromagnetic लहरें थी performed by दाउद Edward ह्यूजेस around 1880, हालांकि इस थी माना to be induction at the समय.
The पहला systematic और unequivocal हस्तांतरण of EM waves was performed by heinrich Rudolf हर्ट्ज़ and वर्णित in papers प्रकाशित in 1887 और 1890.
Hertz famously माना these परिणाम as होने of छोटी व्यावहारिक value.
बाद Hertz 's work अनेक people यहूद शामिल in the development of components और theory शामिल साथ the हस्तांतरण और reception of electromagnetic लहरें.
अन्य, notably Guglielmo मार्कोनी, यहूद concerned with व्यावहारिक सुधार और the commercial अनुप्रयोग of radio to wireless telegraphy.
बाद on रेगिनाल्ड A. Fessenden became the first to send an ऑडियो सिग्नल by अर्थात् of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक लहरें.
Scurvy is a बीमारी resulting इससे a कमियां of vitamin c, जिससे is जरूरी लिये the संश्लेषण of कोलेजन in इंसानो.
The रासायनिक नाम for विटामिन c, ascorbic एसिड, is निकला from the लैटिन नाम of scurvy, scorbutus, जिससे भी provides the adjective scorbutic ( `` of, characterized by or having to do with स्कर्वी '' ).
Scurvy often presents itself initially as लक्षण of malaise and lethargy, followed by गठन of spots on the स्किन, spongy gums, and bleeding इससे the श्लेष्मक membranes.
धब्बे are most abundant on the जांघों and legs, and a व्यक्ति साथ the ailment looks पाले, feels depressed, और is partially immobilized.
as scurvy अग्रिम, there can be खोलें, suppurating wounds, घाटा of दांत, jaundice, ज्वर, neuropathy and death.
स्कर्वी was at एक time common among sailors, pirates और अन्य सवार जहाजों at समुद्र longer than perishable फल and vegetables could be stored ( subsisting instead only on cured और salted meats और सूखी दाने ) and by सैनिको similarly वंचित of ये भोजन लिये विस्तारित periods.
it was वर्णित by हिपोक्रेटिस ( c. 460 BC–c. 380 BC ), and हर्बल cures for स्कर्वी have महरूम ज्ञात in अनेक native संस्कृतियों since प्रागितिहास.
स्कर्वी was one of the limiting कारकों of समुद्री travel, प्रायः killing विशाल numbers of the passengers and crew on long-distance voyages.
इस became a significant समस्या in Europe from the शुरूआत of the modern era in the आयु of डिस्कवरी in the 15th सदी, continuing to play a significant भूमिका through World War I in the 20th सदी.
जबकि आज scurvy is known to be caused by a nutritional कमियां, until the अलगाव of विटामिन C और सीधा evidence of इसके कड़ी to स्कर्वी in 1932, numerous theories और treatments यहूद proposed, often on छोटी or no प्रायोगिक आंकड़ा.
This असंगति is attributed to the कमी of विटामिन c as a पृथक अवधारणा, an अक्षमता to reliably कड़ी different foods ( notably उपस्थित in भैस citrus, watercress, और अंग मांस ) to स्कर्वी.
an अतिरिक्त अवधारणा जरूरी to understand स्कर्वी was the degradation of विटामिन c by exposure to air और तांबे और अन्य परिवर्तन metal salts ऐसे as those of iron, यूँ changing the links of भोजन to स्कर्वी over समय.
उपचार by भैस खाना, विशेषकर citrus fruit, was periodically implemented, as it था been since प्राचीनता.
However until the 1930s, उपचार थी inconsistent, साथ many ineffective treatments प्रयुक्त into the 20th सदी.
it थी a Scottish surgeon in the Royal Navy, जेम्स lind who पहला proved it could be treated with citrus फल in प्रयोग he वर्णित in उसके 1753 book, A Treatise of the Scurvy, हालांकि उसके सलाह was नहीं implemented by the royal Navy लिये several दशकों.
In infants, स्कर्वी is sometimes referred to as barlow 's बीमारी, named after सर थामस barlow, a अंग्रेजों चिकित्सक who described it.
However, Barlow 's बीमारी may भी refer to mitral valve prolapse.
Other eponyms for scurvy include Moeller 's बीमारी और Cheadle 's disease.
स्कर्वी does नहीं occur in सबसे पशु क्युकी they can synthesize their own विटामिन c.
however, इंसानो and अन्य उच्चतर primates ( the simians - monkeys और apes - और tarsiers ), गिनी सूअर, सबसे or सब bats, और कुछ प्रजाति of पक्षियों और मछली कमी an enzyme ( L-gulonolactone oxidase ) necessary लिये ऐसे संश्लेषण and must obtain विटामिन c through their आहार.
विटामिन c is widespread in संयंत्र ऊतकों, with विशेषकर ऊँची एकाग्रता occurring in citrus फल ( संतरे, lemons, limes, grapefruits ), टमाटर, potatoes, cabbages, and green peppers.
Iron is a रासायनिक तत्व with the symbol fe ( from ) and atomic क्रमांक 26.
it is a metal in the first परिवर्तन श्रेणी.
it is the सबसे common तत्व ( by mass ) forming the planet धरती as a पूरे, forming much of धरती 's बाहरी और भीतरी कोर.
it is the fourth most आम element in the Earth 's क्रस्ट.
आयरन 's very आम presence in rocky ग्रह जैसे Earth is due to its abundant उत्पादन as a परिणाम of fusion in high-mass सितारों, जहाँ the production of nickel-56 ( जिससे decays to the most common isotope of iron ) is the पिछला नाभिकीय fusion प्रतिक्रिया कि is ऊष्माक्षेपी.
This कल्याणकारी रेडियोसक्रिय nickel to become the last तत्व to be उत्पादित पहले पतन of a supernova लीड to the विस्फोटक कार्यक्रम that scatter इस precursor radionuclide of iron abundantly into space.
जैसे other समूह 8 elements, आयरन exists in a wide दायरा of ऑक्सीकरण states, −2 to +6, although +2 और +3 are the सबसे common.
Elemental iron occurs in meteoroids और अन्य low ऑक्सीजन environments, but is प्रतिक्रिया to oxygen और जल.
भैस iron surfaces appear lustrous silvery-gray, लकिन oxidize in सामान्य air to दे hydrated आयरन आक्साइड, commonly ज्ञात as rust.
Unlike अनेक other धातुओं जिससे रूप passivating ऑक्साइड layers, iron oxides occupy अधिक आवाज़ than आयरन मेटल, and thus iron oxides फ्लेक off और expose भैस surfaces लिये corrosion.
Iron मेटल रै been प्रयुक्त since ancient टाइम्स, हालांकि तांबे alloys, which have lower melting temperatures, यहूद used पहला in इतिहास.
pure आयरन is नरम ( softer than aluminium ), लकिन is unobtainable by smelting.
the सामग्री is significantly hardened और strengthened by impurities from the smelting प्रक्रम, ऐसे as carbon.
a certain proportion of कार्बन ( between 0.002 % and 2.1 % ) produces स्टील, which may be up to 1000 times harder than pure iron.
crude आयरन metal is उत्पादित in धमाका furnaces, जहाँ ore is घटाया by कोक to सुअर आयरन, जिससे रै a high कार्बन content.
Further refinement साथ ऑक्सीजन reduces the कार्बन सामग्री to the correct proportion to मेक स्टील.
Steels and low कार्बन आयरन alloys साथ अन्य धातुओं ( मिश्रधातु steels ) हैं by दूर the सबसे common धातुओं in industrial use, due to their ग्रेट दायरा of desirable गुण and the प्रचुरता of आयरन.
आयरन रासायनिक compounds, जिससे include ferrous और ferric compounds, have many उपयोग.
आयरन ऑक्साइड मिश्रित with एल्युमिनियम चूर्ण can be ignited to create a थर्माइट reaction, प्रयुक्त in welding और सुथरा ores.
It forms binary compounds साथ the halogens और the chalcogens.
Among इसके organometallic compounds is ferrocene, the पहला sandwich compound खोजा.
आयरन plays an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in biology, forming देवालय साथ आणविक oxygen in हीमोग्लोबिन और myoglobin ; ये two यौगिकों are common oxygen हस्तांतरण proteins in vertebrates.
आयरन is भी the metal used at the क्रियाशील site of अनेक important रेडॉक्स एंजाइमों dealing साथ cellular श्वसन और ऑक्सीकरण and कटौती in पौधे और पशु.
The ब्लू Cross Blue शील्ड संघ ( bcbsa ) is a संघ of 38 पृथक health बीमे संगठन and कंपनियाँ in the संयुक्त States.
संयुक्त, वे सीधे or indirectly provide स्वास्थ्य बीमे to over 99 लाख अमेरिकी.
the इतिहास of Blue Cross तिथियाँ back to 1929, जबकि the इतिहास of ब्लू शील्ड dates to 1939.
The ब्लू Cross संघ dates back to 1960, while इसके Blue शील्ड बंटवारा was निर्मित in 1948.
the दो organizations मिलाया in 1982, forming the current संघ.
A आलू chip ( known as a चिप in अमरीकी, ऑस्ट्रेलियाई, नई जीलैंड, Canadian, Singaporean, हांग Kong, दक्षिण African and Jamaican अंग्रेज़ी ; as a crisp in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी और hiberno-english, and as either a chip or wafer in भारतीय अंग्रेज़ी ) is a पतला slice of आलू कि is deep fried or baked until crunchy.
आलू चिप्स are commonly परोसा as an क्षुधावर्धक, पक्ष dish, or स्नैक.
the basic chips हैं cooked और salted ; अतिरिक्त किस्में are manufactured using various flavorings और संघटक including seasonings, herbs, spices, cheeses, and artificial additives.
`` Crisps '', however, may भी refer to many अलग प्रकार of savory स्नैक products बेची in the संयुक्त किंगडम और आयरलैंड, कुछ बना from आलू, लकिन may भी be made इससे मक्का, tapioca or other cereals.
an example of these kinds of savory snacks is Monster Munch.
आलू chips are a predominant part of the स्नैक खाना मार्केट in english-speaking देशों and numerous अन्य पश्चिमी राष्ट्र.
the वैश्विक आलू chip मार्केट generated कुल revenues of us $ 16.4 अरब in 2005.
इस accounted लिये 35.5 % of the total savory स्नैक्स मार्केट in कि year ( us $ 46.1 billion ).
हेनरी मिट्टी, Sr. ( April 12, 1777 – जून 29, 1852 ) was a वकील, politician और skilled orator who represented केंटकी in both the सीनेट and in the हाउस of Representatives.
he served तीन different शर्तें as स्पीकर of the संयुक्त राज्य House of Representatives और थी also Secretary of राज्य इससे 1825 to 1829.
he खोया उसके अभियान for अध्यक्ष in 1824, 1832 और 1844.
मिट्टी थी a प्रबल फिगर in दोनो the पहला और दूसरी पार्टी systems.
as a अग्रणी युद्ध hawk in 1812, he favored युद्ध with Britain and निभाई a significant भूमिका in अग्रणी the स्वदेश to युद्ध in the War of 1812.
In 1824 he भागा लिये अध्यक्ष और खोया, but threw उसके चुनावी मत to John क्विंसी एडम्स, who made उसे secretary of state as the jacksonians denounced कया they माना a `` corrupt सौदेबाजी. ''
he भागा and lost again in 1832 और 1844 as the candidate of the whig Party, जिससे he संस्थापित और usually dominated.
Clay was the foremost proponent of the अमरीकी प्रणाली, लड़ लिये an बढ़ाएँ in tariffs to foster उद्योग in the संयुक्त States, the उपयोग of federal funding to निर्माण और maintain infrastructure, and a दमदार नेशनल bank.
he opposed the annexation of टेक्सास, fearing it होता इंजेक्ट the गुलामी issue into राजनीती.
मिट्टी also opposed the mexican-american युद्ध और the `` manifest Destiny `` नीति of Democrats, जिससे cost उसे votes in the बंद 1844 चुनाव.
उतावले the `` Great Pacificator, '' Clay brokered महत्वपूर्ण compromises दौरान the Nullification संकट and on the गुलामी समस्या.
As भाग of the `` Great Triumvirate `` or `` Immortal तिकड़ी, '' साथ with उसके सहयोगियों Daniel वेबस्टर और जॉन C. calhoun, he थी इंस्ट्रूमेंटल in formulating the मिसौरी सुलह of 1820 और the सुलह of 1850.
he थी viewed as the प्राथमिक प्रतिनिधि of पश्चिमी रूचि in इस समूह, और was given the names `` Henry of the वेस्ट '' और `` the Western स्टार. ''
a वृक्षारोपण मालिक, Clay held स्लेव during उसके lifetime but freed उन्हें in his होगा.
अब्राहम lincoln, the whig नेता in इलिनोइस, थी a ग्रेट admirer of मिट्टी, saying he थी `` my ideal of a ग्रेट man. ''
Lincoln wholeheartedly समर्थित मिट्टी 's economic कार्यक्रम.
in 1957, a सीनेट कमेटी selected Clay as one of the five महानतम U.S. सीनेटरों, साथ साथ Daniel वेबस्टर, जॉन C. Calhoun, Robert La follette, और रॉबर्ट taft.
bj 's Wholesale Club, inc., commonly referred to बस as bj 's, is a membership-only warehouse क्लबों chain operating on the संयुक्त राज्य East coast, as खूब as in the राज्य of Ohio.
the कम्पनी is क्रमित # 232 on सौभाग्य पत्रिका 's 2010 लिस्टिंग of अमेरिका 's 500 largest पब्लिक corporations.
the जादूगर of Oz, ज्ञात during उसके शासनकाल as The ग्रेट और Powerful oz, is the epithet of Oscar zoroaster phadrig Isaac नॉर्मन henkel Emmannuel Ambroise Diggs, a fictional character in the जमीन of oz, निर्मित by अमरीकी लेखक L. फ़्रैंक baum.
the अक्षर was further popularized by the क्लासिक 1939 movie, wherein उसके पूरा नाम is not mentioned.
kristinia Jamie debarge ( ; born कूच 8, 1990 ) is an American singer, songwriter, dancer and actress.
She पहला appeared on नेशनल टेलीविज़न in 2003 as a प्रतियोगी on the American आइडल spin-off, अमरीकी juniors.
In 2009, DeBarge हस्ताक्षरित a अनुबंध साथ the द्वीप रिकॉर्ड विभाग sodapop, releasing उसके debut एल्बम उजागर in July of the same साल.
the पहला single, `` अलविदा ``, पहुँचे the शीर्ष 20 in the us और कनाडा.
the सीसे single ( `` क्राई Wolf '' ) from उसके बेनाम sophomore एल्बम थी released on September 27, 2012.
The Hawaii योद्धाओं फ़ुटबॉल टोली represents the विश्वविद्यालयों of hawaiʻi at mānoa in ncaa Division I fbs कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल.
The टोली is coached by Norm Chow.
it थी भाग of the पश्चिमी एथलेटिक सम्मेलन जबतक जुलाई 2012, जब the team joined the Mountain वेस्ट सम्मेलन.
The हवाई योद्धाओं were the तीसरा non-aq टोली to play in a bcs bowl game ; खोने to जॉर्जिया 41–10 in the Sugar कटोरी on January 1, 2008 in नई ऑरलियन्स, Louisiana.
Marvin Gaye ( April 2, 1939april 1, 1984 ), born मारविन pentz gay, jr., was an अमरीकी singer-songwriter और musician.
Gaye helped to आकार the ध्वनि of Motown रिकॉर्ड in the 1960s साथ a स्ट्रिंग of हिट्स including `` कैसा मीठी it Is ( to be Loved By तुम ) `` and `` I Heard It through the grapevine `` और duet recordings साथ मरियम कुएं और tammi Terrell, later earning the शीर्षक `` प्रिंस of motown '' और `` Prince of आत्मा ''.
दौरान the 1970s, gaye अंकित the concept एल्बम कया 's going On and Let 's मिलेंगी it On and became among the first artists in Motown to break दूर इससे the reins of इसके उत्पादन company.
gaye 's later recordings influenced several r & B subgenres ऐसे as quiet storm और neo-soul.
following a period in Europe under a कर निर्वासन in the early 1980s, Gaye released the 1982 Grammy award-winning hit `` Sexual Healing `` and the मध्यरात्रि Love एल्बम.
चूंकि उसके death in 1984, Gaye रै been मरणोपरांत सम्मानित by many संस्थानों, सहित the ग्रैमी आजीवन उपलब्धि Award और the चट्टान और Roll Hall of कीर्ति.
स्थान of chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति plant
The abandoned city of pripyat साथ Chernobyl plant in the distance
abandoned आवास ब्लॉक in Pripyat
The chernobyl disaster (, chornobylska katastrofa – chornobyl प्रलय ) was a अनर्थकारी नाभिकीय accident कि occurred on 26 अप्रैल 1986 at the Chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in युक्त ( then officially the यूक्रेनी SSR ), जिससे was under the सीधा क्षेत्राधिकार of the सेंट्रल अधिकारियों of the सोवियत Union.
An explosion और आग released विशाल quantities of रेडियोसक्रिय particles into the माहौल, जिससे spread over much of the western ussr and यूरोपीय.
The chernobyl disaster is widely माना to have महरूम the worst नाभिकीय शक्ति plant दुर्घटना in इतिहास, and is one of तभी दो वर्गीकृत as a स्तर 7 इवेंट on the International नाभिकीय इवेंट स्केल ( the other होने the Fukushima Daiichi नाभिकीय disaster in 2011 ).
the बैटल to contain the संदूषण and avert a वृहद प्रलय ultimately शामिल over 500,000 मजदूर and लागत an अनुमानित 18 अरब rubles.
the आधिकारिक Soviet casualty गिनती of 31 मौतों has महरूम विवादित, और long-term effects ऐसे as cancers and deformities are still होने accounted लिये.
mrs. Claus says goodbye to उसके husband as he सेट off on his journey in this 1919 postcard
Mrs. क्लॉस is the बीवी of सांता Claus, the क्रिसमस gift-bringer in उत्तर अमरीकी और European क्रिसमस परंपरा.
वो is known for making कुकीज़ साथ the elves and preparing toys साथ her husband सांता क्लॉस.
उसके पहला नाम is a mystery, though वो रै been referred to as Mary, Jessica, layla, annette, हीदी, or Martha.
hijackthis ( भी hijackthis or HJT ) is an open सोर्स enumerating औजार लिये microsoft खिड़कियाँ originally created by merijn bellekom, और later sold to Trend सूक्ष्म.
The program is notable for targeting browser-hijacking methods, बल्कि than relying on a database of ज्ञात स्पाइवेयर.
it scans a उपयोक्ता 's कंप्यूटर quickly, और displays browser hijacking locations, प्रर्दशित कया entries are वहीँ.
HijackThis is प्रयुक्त primarily लिये diagnosis of ब्राउजर hijacking, as uninformed use of इसके हटाना facilities can कारण significant software क्षति to a computer.
hijackthis करता नहीं हटाएँ or detect स्पाइवेयर ; it सूचियाँ सबसे आम स्थितियाँ जहाँ ब्राउजर hijacking activity can occur.
ब्राउजर hijacking can कारण मैलवेयर to be installed on a computer.
on फ़रवरी 16, 2012, ट्रेंड सूक्ष्म released the hijackthis सोर्स code as खोलें सोर्स और it is अभी available on the SourceForge site.
काठी Creek Records is an American रिकार्ड label आधारित in ओमाहा, Nebraska.
Started as a college class project on उद्यमिता, the लेबल थी संस्थापित by माइक Mogis और जस्टिन oberst in 1993 ( as lumberjack रिकॉर्ड ).
Mogis जल्द turned over उसके भूमिका in the कम्पनी to robb Nansel.
The लेबल is नामित after काठी क्रीक Road, a street कि कटौती through the ईस्ट side of midtown Omaha, और the beginnings of a झाँकी जिनकी members included conor Oberst ( तब a solo कलाकार, currently of उज्जवल Eyes, Conor oberst और the Mystic Valley Band, desaparecidos और Monsters of Folk ), टिम Kasher ( then of slowdown वर्जिनिया, फिलहाल of कर्सिव और the शुभ Life ), और अन्य.
collectively, they यहूद known unofficially as the `` creekers ''.
काठी Creek first appeared in छपाई on a show flyer, offering to `` Spend an संध्या साथ काठी क्रीक '' ( later to be the title of the लेबल 's dvd. )
Saddle क्रीक became an incorporated एंटिटी as a result of a क्लास प्रोजेक्ट on उद्यमिता.
वितरण is handled by the वैकल्पिक वितरण गठबंधन, जिससे is अंतर्गत the warner म्यूज़िक Group छतरियाँ.
काठी क्रीक रिकॉर्ड continues to be the flagship label of a स्टाइल of म्यूज़िक पुकारा `` the ओमाहा Sound ``, characterized by a slight देश twang.
This is increasingly inaccurate, हालांकि, with the rise of अधिक electronic sounds such as those favored by the faint and टूटा spindles.
the eclectic ध्वनि of काठी Creek 's disparate सदस्य bands is somewhat समझाया by उनके history ; a क्रमांक of the असली सदस्यों of the लेबल attended ग्रेड school साथ.
A `` sister label '', of sorts, to Saddle क्रीक is टोली Love, प्रारंभ by conor oberst in 2004.
The लेबल opened arms to their पहला bands नहीं आधारित in ओमाहा in 2001 with रिलीज by अभी it 's ओवरहेड and Sorry About ड्रेसडेन.
अन्य non-nebraskan artists followed, सहित लॉस एंजिल्स 's rilo kiley, eric bachmann ( formerly leader of archers of loaf और कुटिल उंगलियाँ इससे उत्तर कैरोलिना ), georgie James ( वॉशिंगटन d.C. ), Two gallants ( San फ्रांसिस्को ), और सबसे recently टोकियो पुलिस क्लबों ( Toronto ).
in 2005, खर्च an Evening with Saddle Creek, a वृत्तचित्र detailing the पहला टेन years of the record लेबल 's इतिहास, was released.
The dvd सुविधाएँ extensive interviews साथ the Saddle क्रीक bands, archival फुटेज, and rare सजीव प्रदर्शन.
On जून 8, 2007, the label खोली उनके own म्यूज़िक स्थान नामित slowdown ( after the समूह slowdown वर्जिनिया ), located in शहर Omaha, Nebraska.
The following is a सूची of episodes लिये the television दिखाएँ Full House.
In कुल, वहीँ were 192 episodes filmed लिये the show over the कोर्स of इसके eight seasons, इससे 1987 to 1995.
Full House is a हालात comedy which chronicles a विधवा पिता 's struggles of उठाने उसके तीन young daughters and the lives कि वे have छुआ.
the patriarch of the परिवार, डैनी ( bob saget ), आमंत्रण his brother-in-law जेसी ( जॉन Stamos ) and his बेहतरीन dost जॉय ( डेव Coulier ), to सहायता उठाएँ उसके children ( candace Cameron, Jodie sweetin, और मरियम Kate/Ashley olsen ), after his बीवी was killed दौरान an ऑटोमोबाइल accident involving a drunk driver.
बाद episodes 88 और 89, जेसी marries बेकी ( लोरी loughlin ), और they move into the अटारी.
Then, बाद एपीसोड 104 और 105, बेकी और जेसी have twin लड़कों नामित Nicky और Alex ( डेनियल and Kevin Renteria/Blake और Dylan Tuomy-Wilhoit ).
the श्रेणी ends with episode 192, `` मिशेल यात्राएँ Again भाग 2 '', when मिशेल loses उसके मेमोरी और the family tries to restore it.
सूचना of स्टैम्प अधिनियम of 1765 in समाचारपत्र
American newspapers reacted to the स्टैम्प Act with anger और predictions of the निधन of पत्रकारिता.
the स्टैम्प अधिनियम 1765 ( छोटी शीर्षक कर्तव्य in अमरीकी Colonies अधिनियम 1765 ; 5 George III, c. 12 ) imposed a सीधा कर by the अंग्रेजों Parliament specifically on the colonies of अंग्रेजों अमेरिका, और it जरूरी कि अनेक मुद्रित सामग्री in the colonies be उत्पादित on stamped paper produced in लंदन, carrying an embossed revenue स्टैम्प.
ये printed सामग्री यहूद विधिक दस्तावेज़, मैगज़ीन, अखबारों और अनेक अन्य प्रकार of पेपर used throughout the colonies.
Like पिछला कर, the stamp कर था to be सशुल्क in मान्य अंग्रेजों currency, not in औपनिवेशिक पेपर धन.
The purpose of the कर थी to help अदा लिये सैनिकों stationed in North अमेरिका बाद the अंग्रेजों विजय in the Seven सालो ' युद्ध.
the अंग्रेजों government लगा कि the colonies were the प्राथमिक beneficiaries of इस सैन्य उपस्थिति, and चाहिए अदा at तनिक a portion of the expense.
the स्टैम्प अधिनियम मिले ग्रेट resistance in the colonies.
The colonies भेजा no representatives to पार्लियामेंट, और इसलिए had no influence over what कर यहूद उठाया, how वे यहूद levied, or how वे would be spent.
अनेक colonists considered it a उल्लंघन of their अधिकारों as अंग्रेजो to be taxed बगैर उनके सहमति —consent कि तभी the colonial विधानमंडलों could grant.
औपनिवेशिक सभाओं भेजा याचिकाएं और विरोध.
the स्टैम्प अधिनियम Congress आयोजित in New York नगर, reflecting the पहला significant संयुक्त औपनिवेशिक जवाब to कोई British measure, also petitioned Parliament और the King.
Local विरोध groups, led by औपनिवेशिक व्यापारियों और landowners, स्थापित connections through पत्राचार कि निर्मित a loose गठबन्धन that विस्तारित इससे New England to Georgia.
विरोध and demonstrations initiated by the बेटे of Liberty often turned violent and destructive as the masses became involved.
बहुत जल्द सब stamp कर distributors यहूद intimidated into resigning their आयोग, और the tax थी never effectively collected.
Opposition to the स्टैम्प अधिनियम थी नहीं सीमित to the colonies.
अंग्रेजों व्यापारियों and manufacturers, whose exports to the colonies यहूद threatened by औपनिवेशिक आर्थिक problems exacerbated by the कर, also pressured Parliament.
the अधिनियम थी repealed on कूच 18, 1766 as a पदार्थ of expedience, लकिन पार्लियामेंट affirmed its शक्ति to legislate for the colonies “in सब मामले whatsoever” by also गुजर the declaratory Act.
वहीँ followed a श्रेणी of new कर and regulations, likewise opposed by the colonists.
the एपीसोड निभाई a प्रमुख भूमिका in धमक the grievances और enabling the व्यवस्थित औपनिवेशिक प्रतिरोध कि led to the American क्रान्ति in 1775.
pt-105 underway.
PT boats were a किस्में of torpedo-armed fast attack शिल्प used by the United States नेवी in संसार War ii to attack larger surface जहाजों.
`` PT '' is the US हल classification symbol लिये `` पैट्रोल Torpedo ''.
the pt boat squadrons यहूद nicknamed `` the मच्छर बेड़े ''.
the Japanese called उन्हें `` Devil नौकाएँ ''.
the असली pre– World युद्ध I torpedo नौकाएँ were designed with `` विस्थापन '' hulls.
They विस्थापित up to 300 tons और the top गति was.
The PT boats प्रयुक्त in World युद्ध ii were built using the planing -type हल रूप विकसित लिये रेसिंग नौकाएँ.
They were much छोटी ( 30–75 टन ) and तेज़ ( 35–40 knots ).
दोनो प्रकार यहूद designed to स्ट्राइक at larger warships साथ torpedoes, using relatively ऊँची गति to मिलेंगी close, and small size to avoid being spotted and hit by gunfire.
They यहूद much कम महंगी than विशाल warships.
PT नौकाएँ were much faster, smaller, और cheaper than conventional ( displacement हल ) vessels.
दौरान World War ii, अमरीकी PT नौकाएँ engaged enemy destroyers और numerous other surface craft, ranging from small boats to विशाल सप्लाई जहाजों.
pt boats भी संचालित as gunboats against enemy छोटी शिल्प, ऐसे as armored barges प्रयुक्त by the जापानी शक्तियां for inter-island हस्तांतरण.
शुभ शुक्रवार is a धार्मिक अवकाश observed primarily by ईसाइयों commemorating the crucifixion of यीशु Christ and उसके मौत at कलवारी.
The अवकाश is observed दौरान पावन Week as भाग of the paschal triduum on the शुक्रवार preceding ईस्टर संडे, and may coincide with the यहूदी observance of passover.
It is also ज्ञात as पावन Friday, ग्रेट Friday, Black Friday, or ईस्टर शुक्रवार, though the latter properly refers to the Friday in ईस्टर सप्ताह.
आधारित on the विवरण of the canonical gospels, the Crucifixion of यीशु थी most likely to have महरूम on a Friday ( the दिन before the Sabbath ) ( ).
The estimated year of the Crucifixion is ad 33, by दो अलग समूह, और originally as ad 34 by Isaac न्यूटन via the मतभेद between the biblical और जूलियन calendars and the crescent of the moon.
A तीसरा method, using a completely अलग astronomical दृष्टिकोण based on a चंद्र Crucifixion darkness and eclipse मॉडल ( consistent साथ apostle पीटर 's reference to a `` चंद्रमा of रक्त '' in अधिनियमों 2:20 ), अंक to Friday, 3 April ad 33.
the ग्रेट Basin is the largest क्षेत्रफल of endorheic watersheds in North अमेरिका.
it is विख्यात for both its arid शर्तें and इसके जलाशय and दायरा स्थलाकृति that varies इससे the उत्तर American कम point at badwater जलाशय to the उच्चतम पाइंट of the संलग्न United राज्य, कम than दूर at the summit of माउंट व्हिटनी.
the region spans अनेक physiographic divisions, biomes / ecoregions, और रेगिस्तान.
Raster may refer to:
रास्टर graphics, graphical तकनीकों using arrays of पिक्सेल मान
रास्टर ग्राफिक्स editor, a computer कार्यक्रम
रास्टर स्कैन, the पैटर्न of image readout, हस्तांतरण, भंडार, and reconstruction in television और computer बिंब
rasterisation, or rasterization, conversion of a वेक्टर चित्र to a रास्टर चित्र
रास्टर चित्र processor, or rip, a component of a मुद्रण प्रणाली कि performs rasterisation
रास्टर interrupt, a computer interrupt सिग्नल
रास्टर to vector, an image conversion प्रक्रम
रास्टर bar, an प्रभाव used in computer demos
Raster-Noton, a record लेबल
rastrum, a यंत्र used in मध्यकालीन music manuscripts to चित्रण staff लाइनों
रास्टर दस्तावेज़ Object, a संचिका स्वरूप
बियोवुल्फ़ ( ; बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी : ) is a legendary Geatish hero and बाद turned किंग in the epic कविता named बाद उसे, one of the oldest surviving pieces of साहित्य in the English भाषा.
the आक्रमण on पर्ल Harbor ( पुकारा हवाई Operation or आपरेशन ai by the Japanese इम्पीरियल सामान्य मुख्यालय ( आपरेशन Z in नियोजन ) और the बैटल of Pearl हार्बर ) थी a आश्चर्य military strike conducted by the इम्पीरियल जापानी नेवी विरूद्ध the United States नवल आधार at Pearl हार्बर, हवाई, on the morning of दिसम्बर 7, 1941 ( दिसम्बर 8 in Japan ).
इससे the standpoint of the defenders, the आक्रमण commenced at 7:48 a.m. हवाई समय.
The attack थी intended as a निवारक कार्रवाई in अनुक्रम to रखना the u.S. Pacific बेड़े from दखल with सैन्य क्रियाएँ the साम्राज्य of जापानी was planning in southeast एशिया विरूद्ध overseas territories of the संयुक्त Kingdom, the नीदरलैंड्स, और the संयुक्त States.
The base was attacked by 353 Japanese सेनानी, बमवर्षक और torpedo planes in दो लहरें, शुभारम्भ from six aircraft वाहक.
सब eight u.S. Navy battleships were क्षतिग्रस्त, with four होने sunk.
दो of these were बाद उठाया, और साथ the बाकी four repaired, छह battleships returned to सेवा बाद in the युद्ध.
The जापानी भी sank or क्षतिग्रस्त तीन cruisers, तीन destroyers, an anti-aircraft प्रशिक्षण ship, और one minelayer.
188 u.S. aircraft were destroyed ; 2,402 Americans were मारे और 1,282 wounded.
महत्वपूर्ण base संस्थापना such as the शक्ति station, डॉकयार्ड, मेंटेनेंस, और ईंधन और torpedo storage सुविधाएं, as खूब as the submarine पियर और headquarters भवन ( भी home of the intelligence खण्ड ) were नहीं attacked.
जापानी नुकसान were लाइट : 29 वायुयान और five midget submarines lost, और 65 servicemen मारे or wounded.
एक जापानी नाविक थी captured.
The आक्रमण आए as a profound शॉक to the अमरीकी लोगों and led directly to the अमरीकी entry into World War ii in दोनो the प्रशांत and यूरोपीय थिएटर.
the following दिन ( दिसम्बर 8 ), the संयुक्त States declared war on जापानी.
घरेलू support लिये non-interventionism, जिससे था महरूम दमदार, disappeared.
Clandestine support of ब्रिटेन ( लिये example the neutrality पैट्रोल ) was replaced by active गठबंधन.
subsequent operations by the U.S. prompted जर्मनी और इटली to declare war on the u.S. on December 11, which was reciprocated by the u.S. the same day.
वहीँ यहूद numerous ऐतिहासिक precedents लिये unannounced सैन्य कार्रवाई by जापानी.
However, the कमी of कोई formal चेतावनी, विशेषकर while negotiations यहूद स्टिल apparently जारी, led President Franklin D. रूज़वेल्ट to proclaim दिसम्बर 7, 1941, `` a date जिससे will live in infamy ``.
u.S. Route 85 ( us 85 ) is a north–south संयुक्त States highway कि रनों लिये in the पहाड़ - उत्तरी मैदान states of the United States.
the southern टर्मिनस of the रूट is at the संयुक्त States-Mexico किनारा in El पासो, Texas, connecting with Mexican Federal Highway 45.
the उत्तरी terminus is at the United states-canada किनारा in fortuna, उत्तर डकोटा, जहाँ the रूट continues उत्तर as saskatchewan राजमार्ग 35.
In दोनो the संयुक्त राज्य और saskatchewan, कनाडा the route is known as the CanAm Highway.
Sections of us 85 हैं माना भाग of the थियोडोर Roosevelt एक्सप्रेसवे.
the United राज्य अध्यक्षीय election of 1968 was the 46th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय election, आयोजित on मंगलवार, November 5, 1968.
the Republican nominee, पूर्व vice-president Richard निक्सन, won the election over the Democratic nominee, incumbent Vice-President Hubert humphrey.
निक्सन भागा on a अभियान that promised to restore law and order to the स्वदेश 's शहरों, torn by riots और अपराधों.
विश्लेषकों have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning चुनाव as it permanently disrupted the नई Deal गठबन्धन कि था dominated अध्यक्षीय politics लिये 36 सालो.
Coming चार सालो after डेमोक्रेट lyndon B. जॉनसन won in a ऐतिहासिक भूस्खलन, the चुनाव saw the incumbent president forced आउट of the रेस और a रिपब्लिकन elected लिये the पहला समय in बारह सालो.
it was a विदारक national अनुभव, conducted दौरान a साल of हिंसा कि included the हत्या of सिविल rights नेता मार्टिन Luther किंग, Jr., और subsequent रेस riots across the स्वदेश, the assasination of लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी रॉबर्ट F. Kennedy, widespread विपक्ष to the वियतनाम युद्ध across विश्वविद्यालयों campuses, and हिंसक confrontations between पुलिस and anti-war प्रदर्शनकारियों at the 1968 Democratic नेशनल Convention as the Democratic पार्टी विभाजित again और again.
the चुनाव प्रदर्शित the strongest तीसरा पार्टी effort since 1912 by पूर्व अलबामा राज्यपाल जार्ज वालेस, a Democrat.
क्युकी Wallace 's campaign opposed federal intervention in the दक्षिण to end school segregation, he carried the गहन दक्षिण और भागा well in जातीय औद्योगिक जिले in the North.
इस was the पिछला election in जिससे नई York had the most मत in the चुनावी कॉलेज ( 43 votes ).
After the 1970 census, कैलिफ़ोर्निया gained the सबसे electoral votes और रै remained the most populous राज्य since then.
इस is the latest चुनाव जहाँ a presidential ticket won बगैर carrying the वाइस अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी 's home state.
Windows कार्य मैनेजर is a कार्य manager or प्रणाली मॉनिटर अनुप्रयोग शामिल साथ the Microsoft खिड़कियाँ nt परिवार of operating systems कि provides सीमित information about computer प्रदर्शन और running applications, processes और cpu उपयोग, कमिट चार्ज and मेमोरी सूचना, network कार्यकलाप और आंकडे, logged-in उपयोक्ता, and प्रणाली services ( और as प्रायः is the case with तन्त्र टूल्स provided by Microsoft लिये Windows, 3rd पार्टी तन्त्र is available जिससे भरता the आवश्यकताएँ more thoroughly, e.g, `` Process Explorer '', `` विस्तारित Task मैनेजर '', `` anvir Task मैनेजर '', `` प्रक्रम Hacker '', and `` प्रणाली Explorer '' ).
the Task मैनेजर can भी be used to नियत प्रक्रम priorities, प्रोसेसर affinity, forcibly terminate processes, और shut down, restart, hibernate or log बंद इससे खिड़कियाँ.
खिड़कियाँ Task मैनेजर थी introduced साथ खिड़कियाँ NT 4.0.
पिछला संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ NT शामिल the कार्य List अनुप्रयोग, जिससे था far कम features.
the task सूची was सक्षम of लिस्टिंग फिलहाल कार्यशील प्रक्रियाओं और killing उन्हें, or बनाना a new प्रक्रम.
in खिड़कियाँ XP only, a shutdown menu is also उपस्थित कि allows access to Standby, Hibernate, Turn बंद, restart, log बंद और Switch उपयोक्ता.
Earlier versions of microsoft खिड़कियाँ ( microsoft खिड़कियाँ 3.x, खिड़कियाँ 95, Windows 98 ) था a program ज्ञात as कार्य to display the programs फिलहाल running.
इस संचिका was executed by कार्यशील the taskman.exe संचिका from the C : \खिड़कीs निर्देशिका.
Kanji ( ; ) हैं the अपनाया logographic चाइनीज characters ( hanzi ) that are प्रयुक्त in the modern जापानी लिखने प्रणाली साथ with hiragana ( ひらがな, ), katakana ( カタカナ, ), Hindu-Arabic numerals, and the occasional उपयोग of the लैटिन वर्णमाला.
The जापानी term kanji ( ) लिये the Chinese characters literally अर्थात् `` Han characters '' और is लिखा using the same वर्ण as the Chinese hanzi ( ).
John R विलियम्स ( May 4, 1782 – October 20, 1854 ) थी an अमरीकी soldier, merchant, और राजनेता who is most खूब known for serving as the first महापौर of Detroit, मिशिगन.
in कुल, he परोसा as Detroit 's महापौर लिये five अन्य शर्तें.
He also थी a ब्रिगेडियर general in the संयुक्त राज्य फौज दौरान the ब्लैक हॉक युद्ध.
a सरल शुष्क चुम्बकीय portable कम्पास.
a स्मार्टफोन कि can be used as a compass क्युकी of the magnetometer अंदर.
An iPhone कि can be प्रयुक्त as a geological कम्पास because of the 3-axis teslameter और 3-axis accelerometer inside it
a सैन्य compass कि was used दौरान संसार युद्ध i.
A compass is a navigational instrument कि shows दिशानिर्देश in a फ़्रेम of सन्दर्भ कि is stationary सापेक्ष to the सतह of the धरती.
the frame of सन्दर्भ defines the four cardinal दिशानिर्देश ( or points ) – उत्तर, दक्षिण, ईस्ट, और वेस्ट.
Intermediate दिशानिर्देश हैं भी पारिभाषित.
Usually, a आरेख पुकारा a कम्पास रोज़, जिससे shows the directions ( with their names प्रायः abbreviated to आद्याक्षर ), is marked on the कम्पास.
जब the कम्पास is in उपयोग, the rose is aligned साथ the real दिशानिर्देश in the frame of सन्दर्भ, so, for example, the `` n '' चिह्नित on the रोज़ really points to the उत्तर.
Frequently, in जोड to the rose or sometimes बजाय of it, angle markings in degrees हैं shown on the कम्पास.
North corresponds to शून्य degrees, और the कोण बढ़ाएँ clockwise, so ईस्ट is 90 degrees, दक्षिण is 180, और वेस्ट is 270.
ये numbers allow the कम्पास to दिखाएँ azimuths or बियरिंग, which are commonly stated in this संकेतन.
The चुम्बकीय कम्पास was first invented as a यंत्र for divination as जल्दी as the चाइनीज हान राजवंश ( चूंकि परिचय 206 bc ).
The compass was प्रयुक्त in सोंग Dynasty China by the military लिये navigational orienteering by 1040-1044, और थी प्रयुक्त for maritime navigation by 1111 to 1117.
The उपयोग of a compass is अंकित in पश्चिमी यूरोपीय between 1187 और 1202, and in Persia in 1232.
the शुष्क compass was invented in Europe around 1300.
इस was supplanted in the जल्दी 20th सदी by the liquid-filled चुम्बकीय compass.
The इन्का Empire or inka Empire ( quechua : tawantinsuyu ) थी the largest empire in pre-columbian अमेरिका.
The प्रशासनिक, political और military center of the empire was स्तिथ in कुज़्को in modern-day Peru.
the Inca सभ्यता arose इससे the highlands of पेरू sometime in the early 13th सदी.
From 1438 to 1533, the incas प्रयुक्त a variety of विधि, from conquest to peaceful assimilation, to incorporate a विशाल portion of western South America, centered on the Andean पहाड़ ranges, सहित, besides पेरू, large parts of modern Ecuador, western and दक्षिण सेंट्रल बोलीविया, northwest Argentina, उत्तर और central Chile, और southern कोलंबिया into a राज्य comparable to the ऐतिहासिक empires of यूरेशिया.
the official language of the empire was Quechua, although hundreds of लोकल languages and dialects of quechua यहूद बोला.
the इन्का referred to their empire as Tawantinsuyu which can be translated as The चार regions or the चार संयुक्त प्रांतों.
वहीँ were many लोकल फ़ॉर्म of worship, most of उन्हें concerning लोकल पवित्र `` huacas ``, but the इन्का नेतृत्व encouraged the इबादत of inti —the सूर्य god—and imposed इसके sovereignty above अन्य cults such as that of Pachamama.
The Incas माना उनके किंग, the sapa Inca, to be the `` चाइल्ड of the सूर्य. ''
the गुर्दे are अंगों that serve अनेक essential नियामक roles in most animals, सहित vertebrates और कुछ invertebrates.
They are अनिवार्य in the urinary system and also serve homeostatic कृत्यों ऐसे as the विनियमन of इलेक्ट्रोलाइट्स, maintenance of acid–base balance, और regulation of रक्त pressure ( via maintaining नमक और water balance ).
They serve the देह as a natural filter of the blood, और हटाएँ wastes which हैं diverted to the urinary ब्लैडर.
In producing मूत्र, the गुर्दे excrete wastes ऐसे as यूरिया और ammonium, और they are भी जिम्मेदार लिये the reabsorption of जल, ग्लूकोज, और अमीनो acids.
the गुर्दे भी produce hormones including calcitriol, erythropoietin, और the enzyme renin.
Located at the rear of the abdominal cavity in the retroperitoneum, the kidneys प्राप्त रक्त इससे the युग्म renal धमनियों, और नाली into the paired renal रगों.
Each गुर्दा excretes मूत्र into a ureter, itself a paired ढांचा कि empties into the urinary ब्लैडर.
Renal physiology is the पढ़ाई of kidney function, जबकि nephrology is the चिकित्सा specialty चिंतित साथ गुर्दा रोगों.
Diseases of the गुर्दा are diverse, but individuals with kidney बीमारी frequently प्रदर्शक characteristic नैदानिक सुविधाएँ.
आम clinical conditions involving the kidney include the nephritic और nephrotic syndromes, renal cysts, अधि kidney चोट, दीर्घकालिक गुर्दा disease, urinary ट्रैक्ट संक्रमण, nephrolithiasis, and urinary tract obstruction.
Various cancers of the kidney exist ; the most common वयस्क renal कर्कट is renal कोशिका कार्सिनोमा.
Cancers, cysts, और कुछ other renal शर्तें can be प्रबंधित with हटाना of the kidney, or nephrectomy.
When renal function, measured by glomerular filtration रेट, is persistently ग़रीब, dialysis और kidney transplantation may be उपचार विकल्प.
Although वे हैं नहीं severely नुकसानदेह, kidney पत्थरों can be painful and a nuisance.
the removal of गुर्दा पत्थरों involves ultrasound उपचार to break up the पत्थरों into smaller टुकड़े, जिससे are then passed through the urinary ट्रैक्ट.
One आम लक्षण of kidney पत्थरों is a sharp पीड़ा in the medial/lateral खण्ड of the निम्नतर back.
lockton कंपनियाँ Inc. is the world 's largest privately आयोजित insurance brokerage firm, providing बीमे, risk प्रबन्धन और employee लाभ समाधान.
In जोड to its कान्सास City, मिसौरी मुख्यालय, lockton operates 60 locations in 17 देशों.
lockton is फिलहाल home to more than 4,450 शरीक विश्वव्यापी.
the कम्पनी थी founded by Jack Lockton in 1966 और has चूंकि become the world’s 9th largest बीमे brokerage कड़.
lockton serves a wide array of industries with सेवाएं that शामिल रिस्क management, casualty, surety, पेशेवर indemnity और more.
For 46 years, Lockton posted असाधारण सशुल्क growth, with वैश्विक revenues reaching $ 915 लाख in फिस्कल 2012.
lockton लाभ समूह : lockton’s कर्मचारी benefit’s टोली works closely with बीमे carriers और administrators to बनाएँ comprehensive और integrated लाभ strategies for क्लाइंट.
the Lockton लाभ समूह provides services सहित अनुपालन, कार्यपालिका benefits, स्वास्थ्य और welfare, health risk solutions, रिटायरमेंट और more.
lockton अपनापन : lockton Affinity, an संबद्ध of Lockton कंपनियाँ, meets the insurance needs of अपनापन groups, franchises, पेशेवर organizations, और associations of सब आकार.
Lockton अपनापन offers a किस्में of insurance उत्पाद विकल्प और कार्यक्रम.
उत्पाद शामिल : सामान्य देयता, Professional देयता, Property, मजदूर मुआवजे, निर्देशकों & अधिकारियों Liability, वाणिज्यिक स्वचालित, Specialty कवरेज, excess, Health योजनाएँ और अधिक.
lockton अंतरराष्ट्रीय : lockton अंतरराष्ट्रीय operates कार्यालयों in the uk और Ireland, as खूब as offices throughout Asia और Latin America.
in यूरोपीय, lockton अंतरराष्ट्रीय is a संगी in eos RISQ, Europe’s अग्रणी insurance ब्रोकिंग and रिस्क प्रबन्धन consultancy.
EOS risq is an equity-based European partnership of प्रमुख independent बीमे brokers with over 3,500 employees आधारित in more than 30 countries in Europe.
Lockton अंतरराष्ट्रीय provides specialized समाधान लिये निजी लाइनों, sme’s और major multi-national क्लाइंट.
White चॉकलेट is a चॉकलेट डेरिवेटिव.
It commonly consists of cocoa मक्खन, शुगर, milk solids और नमक, और is characterized by a pale पीला or ivory रूप.
the melting पाइंट of cocoa butter, इसके प्राथमिक cocoa bean component, is high enough to keep श्वेत चॉकलेट ठोस at room तापमान.
Donald लिओन `` Don '' blankenship ( born कूच 14, 1950 ) थी अध्यक्ष और सीईओ of massey उर्जा co., the sixth largest coal कम्पनी ( by 2008 उत्पादन ) in the United States.
He served in those भूमिकाएँ from नवम्बर 30, 2000, जबतक दिसम्बर 31, 2010.
blankenship is an क्रियाशील financial backer of the Republican party और भागीदार in लोकल and राज्य politics, especially in उसके घर state of वेस्ट Virginia.
He रै अक्सर बोला आउट सरेआम about राजनीती, the पर्यावरण, संघ, and कोयले production.
u.S. प्रतिभूति और Exchange आयोग filings दिखाएँ blankenship was सशुल्क $ 17.8 लाख in 2009, the उच्चतम in the coal उद्योग.
उसके 2009 अदा represents a $ 6.8 लाख उठाएँ over 2008 और लगभग दोगुना his मुआवजे package in 2007.
Blankenship भी received a deferred compensation पैकेज valued at $ 27.2 million in 2009.
on December 3, 2010, blankenship घोषित कि he थी retiring as सीईओ at the समाप्त of the year, and would be succeeded by massey अध्यक्ष Baxter F. Phillips Jr.
Bow Wow is one of the transcriptions प्रयुक्त in अंग्रेज़ी to describe a श्वान 's bark.
धनुष Wow may भी refer to:
धनुष wow ( बैंड ), a जापानी hard rock/heavy मेटल बैंड
Bow wow ( rapper ), an अमरीकी rapper and actor
Bow wow सॉस, a sauce विकसित in the Cotswolds प्रदेश of इंग्लैण्ड
धनुष wow wow, a uk नई वेव band
`` Bow wow '', a song by the fiery Furnaces इससे उनके 2003 album Gallowsbird 's Bark
`` धनुष wow ब्लूज़ ( My मामा दावत me जैसे a Dog ) '', a सोंग रचित in the 1920s by चट्टान dost & nat Osborne
लापरवाही ( lat. negligentia, इससे neglegere, to neglect, literally `` नहीं to चुनें up something '' ) is a विफलता to exercise the care that a reasonably prudent person होता कसरत in जैसे हालातों.
the area of अपकृत्य विधि known as लापरवाही involves नुक़सान caused by carelessness, नहीं intentional नुक़सान.
according to Jay M. feinman of the rutgers विश्वविद्यालयों स्कूल of विधि ;
`` The कोर विचार of negligence is कि लोगों चाहिए कसरत reasonable care जब वे अधिनियम by taking खाता of the potential harm कि they might foreseeably कारण नुक़सान to other people. ''
`` those जो go personally or bring प्रॉपर्टी जहाँ वे जान कि वे or it may come into टक्कर साथ the व्यक्तियों or प्रॉपर्टी of others have by law a duty डाल upon them to उपयोग reasonable परवाह और skill to avoid such a collision. ''
फ्लेचर v rylands ( [ 1866 ] LR 1 Ex 265 )
through civil वाद, if an injured person proves कि another व्यक्ति acted negligently to cause their चोट, they can रिकवर क्षतिपूर्ति to compensate for उनके नुक़सान.
proving a मामला लिये लापरवाही can potentially entitle the injured अभियोक्ता to मुआवजे लिये नुक़सान to उनके देह, प्रॉपर्टी, दिमागी well-being, वित्तीय औकात, or intimate संबंध.
however, क्युकी लापरवाही cases हैं बहुत fact-specific, इस सामान्य परिभाषा करता नहीं fully explain the अवधारणा of जब the law will require one person to compensate another for नुकसान caused by आकस्मिक चोट.
further, the law of negligence at common law is तभी एक पहलू of the law of देयता.
हालांकि resulting damages must be proven in अनुक्रम to रिकवर compensation in a negligence कार्रवाई, the प्रकृति और extent of those क्षतिपूर्ति हैं नहीं the प्राथमिक focus of negligence मामले.
A melanocytic nevus ( also ज्ञात as `` Nevocytic nevus '' ) is a प्रकार of lesion कि contains nevus कोशिकाएं ( a type of melanocyte ).
कुछ sources equate the पद mole साथ `` melanocytic nevus ''.
अन्य sources आरक्षित the term `` mole '' लिये अन्य purposes.
The बहुमत of moles appear during the पहला दो दशकों of a person’s life, जबकि about एक in प्रत्येक 100 शिशु is born साथ औज़ार.
Acquired moles हैं a रूप of benign neoplasm, जबकि जन्मजात moles, or जन्मजात nevi, हैं considered a नाबालिग malformation or hamartoma और may be at a higher रिस्क लिये melanoma.
a mole can be either subdermal ( अंतर्गत the skin ) or a pigmented विकास on the स्किन, formed mostly of a type of cell ज्ञात as a melanocyte.
the ऊँची विशेषज्ञता of the body’s pigmenting एजेंट, मेलेनिन, is जिम्मेदार लिये उनके dark रंग.
Moles हैं a सदस्य of the family of स्किन lesions ज्ञात as nevi.
the व्यापक metabolic फलक, or chemical स्क्रीन, ( CMP ; cpt code 80053 ) is a panel of 14 रक्त tests जिससे serves as an आरंभिक व्यापक चिकित्सा स्क्रीनिंग औजार.
The CMP provides a अशिष्ट जाँच of गुर्दा फलन, liver function, and electrolyte और द्रव balance, but it is far इससे पूर्ण.
असामान्य values इससे a cbc may be a परिणाम of गलत positives and thus the cbc may need to be repeated for a रोगी ( or replaced साथ a अधिक विशिष्ट परीक्षण ).
The cmp is an विस्तारित संस्करण of the मौलिक metabolic फलक ( bmp ), which does not शामिल जिगर परीक्षण.
a CMP ( or bmp ) can be ordered as भाग of a दिनचर्या शारीरिक परिक्षा, or may be used to monitor a patient साथ a chronic बीमारी, ऐसे as मधुमेह mellitus or hypertension.
Previous names लिये the फलक of परीक्षण have been chem 12, रसायन panel, रसायन स्क्रीन, sma 12, sma 20 and smac ( sequential Multiple विश्लेषण - Computer ).
the परीक्षण हैं performed on मशीने based on the AutoAnalyzer invented in 1957.
प्राकृतिक गैस extraction by देशों in घन मीटर प्रति साल.
Natural gas is a naturally occurring हाइड्रोकार्बन gas मिश्रण consisting primarily of मिथेन, लकिन commonly सहित varying amounts of अन्य hydrocarbons, कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड, नाइट्रोजन, और hydrogen sulfide.
प्राकृतिक gas is an energy source often प्रयुक्त लिये हीटिंग, कुकिंग, and विद्युत generation.
It is भी used as ईंधन for vehicles और as a chemical फर्टिलाइजर in the manufacture of प्लास्टिक and other commercially महत्वपूर्ण organic रसायन.
प्राकृतिक gas is found in गहन भूमिगत प्राकृतिक चट्टान formations or associated with अन्य हाइड्रोकार्बन reservoirs in कोयले beds और as methane clathrates.
पेट्रोलियम is भी another resource found in निकटता to and with प्राकृतिक गैस.
Most प्राकृतिक गैस थी निर्मित over समय by two mechanisms : biogenic and thermogenic.
biogenic gas is निर्मित by methanogenic organisms in marshes, bogs, landfills, और उथले sediments.
Deeper in the धरती, at वृहद temperature and pressure, thermogenic gas is निर्मित इससे buried सशुल्क material.
पहले natural गैस can be प्रयुक्त as a ईंधन, it जरूर undergo processing to हटाएँ impurities, सहित water, to meet the विशेषताएँ of marketable natural gas.
the by-products of प्रसंस्करण शामिल इथेन, प्रोपेन, butanes, pentanes, and उच्चतर molecular weight hydrocarbons, hydrogen sulfide ( which may be परिवर्तित into pure गंधक ), carbon डाइऑक्साइड, water वाष्प, और sometimes helium and नाइट्रोजन.
प्राकृतिक गैस is often informally referred to बस as गैस, विशेषकर when compared to other उर्जा sources such as oil or coal.
इस page is परिचय the Imagination मूवर्स band.
लिये सूचना परिचय the TV दिखाएँ अभिनीत the band, देखिए कल्पना मूवर्स ( tv श्रेणी ).
कल्पना मूवर्स is a band formed in नई ऑरलियन्स, louisiana, in 2003.
the लाइनअप शामिल समृद्ध कॉलिन्स, स्कॉट Durbin, डेव Poche, और स्कॉट `` Smitty '' Smith.
सदस्यों of the group were longtime मित्रों and neighbors.
the समूह प्रारंभ as a television/music अवधारणा जिससे was pitched to लोकल pbs affiliates in नई Orleans.
wlae-tv थी the first to लो an interest in the समूह और later introduced उन्हें to बेथ Courtney, the President & मुख्य Executive अधिकारी at louisiana पब्लिक Broadcasting.
Soon बाद, lpb began airing one-minute वीडियो उत्पादित by the कल्पना मूवर्स themselves.
the मूवर्स built a sizable regional following by setting educational गीतों लिये बच्चे to melodies and rhythms that वयस्कों कद्र as खूब.
वे sold more than 100,000 copies of their self-produced cds और dvds.
उनके तीन indie cds : `` Good Ideas, '' `` Calling All Movers, '' and `` आठ फीट '' साथ साथ उनके ग्रास जड़ें dvd `` Stir it up '' have, संयुक्त, won चौदह नेशनल पुरस्कार, इससे such समूह as the नेशनल संघ of परवरिश publications ( NAPPA ) and Parents ' Choice.
in जल्दी 2005, Disney took सूचना, and initiated negotiations to add the मूवर्स to the कम्पनी 's रोस्टर.
These were बाधित in अगस्त जब the flood protection designed और built by the फौज corps of Engineers to protect New ऑरलियन्स विफल.
The resulting floodwater claimed the बैंड 's office, as खूब as the homes of Collins, Durbin और poche – लकिन the सौदे थी signed in the spring of 2006.
In 2008, वॉल्ट डिज़्नी Records introduced the Imagination Movers ' म्यूज़िक to the स्वदेश साथ the रिलीज of the मूवर्स ' पहला nationally-released cd, `` Juice बक्सा Heroes. ''
in सितंबर 2008, a 30-minute दिखाएँ featuring the group began airing on the डिज़्नी Channel 's प्रीस्कूल प्रोग्रामिंग ब्लाक known as Playhouse Disney, और फिलहाल airs on playhouse Disney 's replacement, डिज़्नी Junior.
The Movers लिखें और perform all the songs on उनके show.
moreover, the Imagination मूवर्स have प्राप्त नाजुक kudos लिये their सजीव concert प्रदर्शन.
in अक्तूबर 2009, the कल्पना Movers प्रारंभ the `` Live इससे the विचार गोदाम कॉन्सर्ट दौरे 2009 ''.
Traveling from mid-october to mid-december 2009 उनके live performances include लोट of उनके पसंदीदा गीतों and नाचना, as खूब as वीडियो दिखावे of गोदाम चूहा.
शुरूआत in early-February 2011 और wrapping up in late may 2011, the कल्पना Movers प्रस्तुत उनके `` in a बिग गोदाम Concert Tour, '' playing more than 100 shows in 50+ शहरों आरपार North अमेरिका.
इससे March to अक्तूबर 2012, the कल्पना मूवर्स toured उत्तर America on उनके post-disney `` Rock-O-Matic '' tour.
The दिखाएँ maintained अनेक elements of the original tv अवधारणा, such as an on-stage `` idea emergency '' और अनेक sets from उनके older catalogue ; however, साथ the departure of Wendy calio back to her देशी हवाई, the अक्षर `` नीना '', साथ with her musical numbers, is नहीं present.
the tour promotes the कल्पना Movers ' new album/dvd रिलीज, `` rock-o-matic '', which सुविधाएँ सब नई म्यूज़िक इससे the बैंड.
The एल्बम itself is उत्पादित independently of Disney और has a notably more वयस्क, समकालीन rock-and-roll ध्वनि, हालांकि स्टिल बहुत appropriate for children.
अनेक प्रदर्शन dates were moved to बाद in 2012 to लाभ इससे the increased exposure of the Imagination Movers tv दिखाएँ अभी playing रोज़ on डिज़्नी जूनियर.
The platypus ( Ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic स्तनधारी endemic to पूर्वी Australia, including तस्मानिया.
Together साथ the चार प्रजाति of एकिडना, it is one of the five extant प्रजाति of monotremes, the तभी mammals कि lay अंडे instead of giving जनम.
it is the एकमात्र जीना प्रतिनिधि of इसके परिवार ( ornithorhynchidae ) और genus ( ornithorhynchus ), though a number of सम्बन्धित प्रजाति have महरूम मिला in the fossil record.
The असामान्य रूप of इस egg-laying, बतख -billed, बीवर -tailed, otter -footed स्तनधारी मनोरथ European naturalists जब they first encountered it, साथ कुछ considering it an विस्तृत धोखाधड़ी.
it is one of the few विषैला mammals, the पुरूष platypus having a spur on the हिन्द पैर that delivers a venom सक्षम of causing severe पीड़ा to इंसानो.
The अद्वितीय सुविधाएँ of the platypus मेक it an महत्वपूर्ण subject in the study of evolutionary biology और a recognisable and iconic symbol of ऑस्ट्रेलिया ; it has appeared as a शुभंकर at national events और is featured on the reverse of इसके 20-cent coin.
The platypus is the एनिमल emblem of the राज्य of नई दक्षिण वेल्स.
जबतक the जल्दी 20th सदी, it was hunted for its फर, लकिन it is अभी protected throughout इसके दायरा.
हालांकि खिलाते प्रजनन programmes have था only सीमित कामयाबी और the platypus is vulnerable to the प्रभाव of प्रदूषण, it is not अंतर्गत कोई immediate threat.
The chupacabra or Chupacabras (, from chupar `` to suck '' and cabra `` बकरी '', वस्तुतः `` बकरी sucker '' ) is a legendary cryptid rumored to inhabit parts of the americas.
it is associated more recently साथ sightings of an allegedly अनजान animal in Puerto रीको ( जहाँ ये sightings यहूद first reported ), मैक्सिको, और the United States, विशेषकर in the latter 's लैटिन American communities.
The नाम आता इससे the एनिमल 's reported आदत of attacking and drinking the रक्त of पशुधन, especially goats.
Physical descriptions of the प्राणी vary.
Eyewitness sightings have been claimed as जल्दी as 1995 in प्यूर्टो रीको, and have चूंकि महरूम reported as दूर उत्तर as maine, और as दूर दक्षिण as Chile, and even being spotted बाहर the Americas in countries जैसे रूस and the फिलीपीन.
it is supposedly a heavy creature, the size of a small भालू, साथ a row of spines reaching इससे the neck to the आधार of the tail.
Sighting reports of the chupacabra have महरूम disregarded as uncorroborated or lacking evidence, जबकि सबसे रिपोर्ट्स in उत्तरी Mexico and the दक्षिणी संयुक्त States have महरूम सत्यापित as canids afflicted by mange.
biologists और वन्यजीव प्रबन्धन officials दृश्य the chupacabra as a समकालीन legend.
the North अमरीकी फ़्री व्यापार अनुबंध ( NAFTA ) is an agreement signed by कनाडा, मैक्सिको, और the संयुक्त राज्य, creating a trilateral trade bloc in उत्तर अमेरिका.
the अनुबंध आए into force on जनवरी 1, 1994.
it superseded the Canada–United राज्य फ़्री Trade अनुबंध between the u.S., Canada, और Mexico
nafta रै two supplements : the उत्तर American अनुबंध on Environmental सहयोग ( naaec ) and the उत्तर अमरीकी अनुबंध on मजदूर Cooperation ( naalc ).
थर्मल comfort is the condition of mind that expresses satisfaction with the थर्मल पर्यावरण और is assessed by subjective evaluation ( ansi / ashrae मानक 55 ).
Maintaining इस मानक of थर्मल comfort for occupants of buildings or other enclosures is एक of the महत्वपूर्ण लक्ष्य of HVAC ( हीटिंग, वेंटिलेशन, and एयर कंडीशनिंग ) डिज़ाइन engineers.
The Predicted Mean Vote ( pmv ) model स्टैंड among the सबसे recognized थर्मल सुकून मॉडल.
It was developed using सिद्धान्त of ऊष्मा संतुलन और प्रायोगिक data collected in a नियंत्रित जलवायु chamber अंतर्गत स्थिर state शर्तें.
क्युकी the PMV मॉडल थी निकला इससे आंकड़ा एकत्रित in a नियंत्रित जलवायु, it is नहीं उपयुक्त लिये applications in naturally ventilated स्पेसेस जिससे often have high स्तर of air गति.
इस shortcoming प्रेरित the विकास of a परिवार of empirical सांख्यिकीय मॉडल of थर्मल सुकून in naturally ventilated स्पेसेस ज्ञात as adaptive मॉडल.
अनुकूली मॉडल of थर्मल comfort consider occupants as dynamically interacting with उनके पर्यावरण, और controlling their थर्मल comfort by अर्थात् of clothing or window-opening और closing.
इस is in कंट्रास्ट to थर्मल सुकून in sealed इमारतें, in which occupants अनुभव the पर्यावरण passively.
Thermal सुकून is प्रभावित by ऊष्मा conduction, convection, विकिरण, और evaporative heat घाटा.
Thermal सुकून is कायम when the ऊष्मा generated by human metabolism is allowed to dissipate, यूँ maintaining थर्मल संतुलन with the परिवेश.
It has महरूम long पहचाना कि the सनसनी of अहसास hot or ठंडा is not just dependent on एयर temperature अलोन.
थर्मल comfort calculations according to ANSI/ASHRAE मानक 55 can be freely performed with the cbe थर्मल सुकून औजार लिये ashrae-55.
durante degli Alighieri, बस referred to as Dante (, ; ; c. 1265–1321 ), थी a major इतालवी poet of the Middle Ages.
उसके दैवी कॉमेडी, originally पुकारा ' and बाद पुकारा ' by boccaccio, is widely considered the महानतम साहित्यिक कार्य रचित in the इतालवी भाषा and a कलाकृति of world literature.
in इटली he is ज्ञात as ' ( `` the Supreme Poet '' ) or बस '.
he, Petrarch और boccaccio हैं also ज्ञात as `` the तीन स्रोतों '' or `` the three crowns ''.
दांते is भी पुकारा the `` Father of the Italian भाषा ''.
मुख्यालय ( कोबे, जापानी )
( ) is a tire और रबर company based in Japan.
It is भाग of the Sumitomo Group.
the कम्पनी traces its origins to 1909, जब the sumitomo समूह बना an निवेश in dunlop जापानी, the newly formed Japanese subsidiary of the अंग्रेजों कम्पनी dunlop Rubber.
Over the सालो sumitomo and dunlop विकसित a close business संबंध, and in 1963 the Sumitomo Group acquired कंट्रोल of dunlop Japan and renamed it sumitomo Rubber उद्योग ltd.
in 1985, जब Dunlop रबर थी लिया over by btr पीएलसी, the कम्पनी acquired the ऑटोमोबाइल टायर assets of Dunlop, including the right to उपयोग the dunlop brand on ऑटोमोबाइल टायर.
the अधिग्रहण did नहीं शामिल the us और Australian व्यवसायों, which यहूद separately स्वामित्व, but in 1986 sumitomo also acquired the dunlop टायर निगम of the US from इसके प्रबन्धन.
In 1997, sumitomo formed a संयुक्त venture साथ goodyear Tire और Rubber Company, by जिससे goodyear and sumitomo सहमत to manufacture tires for प्रत्येक अन्य 's markets, सहित dunlop branded tires.
As part of the अनुबंध, goodyear acquired 75 % रूचि in dunlop Tyres, the UK कम्पनी जिससे sumitomo था formed, और in dunlop Tire निगम.
goodyear and sumitomo also made निवेश in प्रत्येक other.
Today, the company makes a wide range of रबर आधारित उत्पाद, सहित ऑटोमोबाइल टायर, गोल्फ़ balls और tennis balls.
microsoft Visual स्टुडियो एक्स्प्रेस is a set of फ्रीवेयर एकीकृत विकास environments ( IDE ) विकसित by Microsoft that हैं lightweight संस्करण of the microsoft विज़ुअल Studio product line.
एक्स्प्रेस संस्करण were conceived beginning with Visual स्टुडियो 2005.
the idea of Express editions is to provide streamlined, easy-to-use और easy-to-learn ides लिये उपयोक्ता अन्य than professional तन्त्र डेवलपर, ऐसे as hobbyists और विद्यार्थी.
The Alps are एक of the ग्रेट mountain range systems of यूरोपीय stretching लगभग आरपार eight Alpine countries इससे Austria और स्लोवेनियाई in the east, स्विट्ज़रलैंड, Liechtenstein, जर्मनी, फ़्रांस to the वेस्ट and Italy and Monaco to the दक्षिण.
The kyu यहूद formed over सैंकड़ों of millions of सालो as the अफ़्रीकी और Eurasian tectonic प्लेटों collided.
चरम shortening caused by the event resulted in समुद्री sedimentary रॉक्स उठती by thrusting और फोल्डिंग into ऊँची पहाड़ चोटियों ऐसे as मोंट Blanc and the matterhorn.
Mont Blanc spans the French–Italian border, और at is the highest पहाड़ in the ऐल्प्स.
the अल्पाइन region क्षेत्रफल contains अनेक peaks उच्चतर than, known as the `` four-thousanders ``.
The ऊँचाई और size of the range affects the जलवायु in यूरोपीय ; in the kyu वर्षण levels vary greatly और climatic शर्तें consist of distinct zones.
Wildlife ऐसे as ibex live in the उच्चतर चोटियों to elevations of, and पौधे ऐसे as Edelweiss grow in rocky क्षेत्रों in निम्नतर elevations as खूब as in उच्चतर elevations.
Evidence of human habitation in the ऐल्प्स goes back to the paleolithic era.
a mummified man, संकल्पित to be 5,000 years बूढ़ा, was discovered on a हिमानी at the Austrian–Italian किनारा in 1991.
By the 6th सदी bc, the सेल्टिक la tène culture थी खूब स्थापित.
Hannibal may have crossed the Alps साथ a herd of हाथियों, और the romans था settlements in the प्रदेश.
In 1800 नेपोलियन crossed एक of the mountain गुजरता साथ an फौज of 40,000.
the 18th और 19th सदियां देखी an influx of naturalists, लेखक, और कलाकारों, in particular the romantics, followed by the सुनहरी आयु of alpinism as mountaineers began to ascend the चोटियों.
in World युद्ध II the तीसरा Reich invaded the अल्पाइन देशों, with the exception of स्विट्ज़रलैंड और liechtenstein ; Adolf हिटलर kept a base of operation in the bar ऐल्प्स throughout the युद्ध.
the अल्पाइन प्रदेश रै a दमदार सांस्कृतिक पहचान.
the परंपरागत culture of खेती, cheesemaking, और woodworking स्टिल exists in अल्पाइन गांवों, हालांकि the पर्यटक industry began to grow early in the 20th century और expanded greatly after World युद्ध ii to become the प्रबल industry by the end of the century.
the Winter ओलम्पिक खेल have महरूम hosted in the स्विस, फ्रेंच, इतालवी, Austrian and जर्मनी ऐल्प्स.
at present the प्रदेश is घर to 14 लाख people और रै 120 लाख सालाना visitors.
लोइस Patrice Griffin ( née pewterschmidt ) is a अक्षर from the एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न श्रेणी परिवार guy.
वो is voiced by लेखक एलेक्स borstein और पहला appeared on टेलीविज़न, along साथ the rest of the परिवार in the 15-minute छोटी on December 20, 1998.
लोइस थी निर्मित और designed by श्रेणी निर्माता Seth MacFarlane.
MacFarlane was पूछा to pitch a पायलट to the Fox प्रसारण Company आधारित on Larry और स्टीव, a छोटी बना by macfarlane which featured a middle-aged character नामित लैरी और an intellectual श्वान, स्टीव.
बाद the पायलट थी given the ग्रीन light, the griffin परिवार appeared on the एपीसोड `` Death Has a छाया ``.
लोइस is the माँ of the Griffin परिवार.
With her husband पीटर, वो रै था तीन children : मेग, क्रिस, और stewie.
लोइस is प्रायः portrayed as a stereotypical television माँ, despite उसके admitting to being a drug उपयोक्ता, a recovering meth नशेड़ी kleptomaniac.
लोइस has भी था अनेक अफेयर्स, एक of जिससे allegedly resulted in the धारणा of Meg.
वो रै appeared in other मीडिया relating to Family Guy—including a video game, commercials और books—and inspired an entire line of merchandise.
लोइस 's distinctive नई यॉर्क accent originated इससे a अक्षर in a stage show that एलेक्स borstein had performed in, जिससे थी largely प्रेरित by a relative जो grew up on long द्वीप, नई York.
Family हस्तांतरण of बास्क भाषा ( बास्क as आरंभिक language )
Percentage of विद्यार्थी registered in बास्क भाषा स्कूलों ( 2000–2005 ).
स्थान of the basque-language प्रांतों भीतर स्पेन और France
Basque ( endonym :, ) is the ancestral language of the Basque people, जो inhabit the बास्क Country, a प्रदेश spanning an क्षेत्रफल in northeastern स्पेन and southwestern France.
It is बोला by 27 % of basques in सब territories ( 714,136 आउट of 2,648,998 ).
of these, 663,035 सजीव in the Spanish भाग of the बास्क country and the बाकी 51,100 सजीव in the French भाग.
In अकादमिक चर्चाएँ of the distribution of बास्क in Spain और France, it is प्रथागत to refer to three प्राचीन प्रांतों in France and चार स्पेनी प्रांतों.
देशी speakers are concentrated in a संलग्न area सहित भाग of the स्पेनी autonomous समुदायों of the बास्क देश and नावारा और in the पश्चिमी हाफ of the फ्रेंच département of pyrénées-atlantiques.
the बास्क Autonomous Community is an administrative entity भीतर the binational ethnographic बास्क देश incorporating the traditional Spanish प्रांतों of biscay, gipuzkoa, and álava, जिससे retain their अस्तित्व as politico-administrative विभाजन.
ये प्रांतों and अनेक क्षेत्रों of Navarre are heavily populated by जातीय basques, लकिन Basque was, at तनिक until the 1990s, not spoken as a देशी language in most of álava, western parts of Biscay और सेंट्रल और दक्षिणी क्षेत्रों of नावारा, either because it था महरूम replaced by स्पेनी along the सदियां, in कुछ क्षेत्रों, or क्युकी it had never महरूम बोला there, in अन्य क्षेत्रों.
in southwestern France, the ancient basque-populated provinces यहूद labourd, Lower Navarre, and soule.
वे और other regions यहूद संचित into a single département in 1790 under the नाम Basses-Pyrénées, a नाम जिससे persisted जबतक 1970.
a standardized form of the Basque भाषा, called euskara Batua, थी developed by the बास्क भाषा अकादमी in the late 1960s.
euskara batua थी निर्मित so कि बास्क language could be used—and easily समझा by all Basque speakers—in औपचारिक परिस्थितियों ( शिक्षा, द्रव्यमान मीडिया, साहित्य ), and इस is इसके प्रमुख उपयोग today.
the भूमिका of इस मानक बास्क language depends on the भाषाई शैक्षणिक मॉडल of प्रत्येक region और each स्कूल.
in most areas of the स्पेनी बास्क देश, the शैक्षणिक Model d, where सब विषय are सिखाया in Basque, मगर `` स्पेनी भाषा और literature '' ( which is taught in Spanish ) is अभी the predominant model.
In फ़्रांस, the बास्क भाषा school seaska और the संघ लिये a दुभाषिया ( बास्क और फ्रेंच ) schooling Ikasbi मिलें a चौड़ी range of Basque भाषा शैक्षणिक needs up to the Sixth रूप, जबकि प्रायः struggling to surmount वित्तीय और प्रशासनिक constraints.
अलावा इससे this मानकीकृत संस्करण, वहीँ are five प्रमुख बास्क dialects : bizkaian, gipuzkoan, और Upper navarrese in स्पेन, और navarrese–lapurdian and Zuberoan ( in फ़्रांस ).
Although वे लो their names इससे the mentioned ऐतिहासिक प्रांतों, the dialect सीमाएँ हैं not congruent साथ province सीमाएँ.
the अध्यक्ष, निर्देशकों और Company, of the बैंको of the संयुक्त States, commonly known as the First बैंको of the संयुक्त राज्य, was a सेंट्रल bank, चार्टर्ड for a पद of बीस years, by the संयुक्त राज्य Congress on फ़रवरी 25, 1791.
स्थापना of the बैंको was शामिल in a three-part विस्तार of federal फिस्कल and monetary शक्ति ( along with a संघीय मिंट और excise कर ) championed by सिकंदर हैमिल्टन, पहला सचिव of the Treasury.
हैमिल्टन believed a central बैंको was necessary to stabilize और improve the nation 's क्रेडिट, and to improve handling of the financial कारोबार of the संयुक्त States government under the newly enacted संविधान.
officially प्रस्तावित to the पहला सत्र of the पहला कॉंग्रेस in 1790, Hamilton 's बैंको faced widespread प्रतिरोध from opponents of increased संघीय शक्ति.
सचिव of राज्य Thomas जेफरसन and जेम्स Madison led the opposition, which claimed कि the बैंको थी असंवैधानिक, और कि it benefited merchants और निवेशकों at the expense of the बहुमत of the जनसांख्यिकी.
The First Bank भवन is अभी a नेशनल ऐतिहासिक Landmark स्तिथ in फिलाडेल्फिया, पेन्सिलवेनिया within स्वतंत्रता नेशनल Historical पार्क.
जेम्स वेस्ले Marsters ( born अगस्त 20, 1962 ) is an American कर्ता and संगीतकार.
marsters पहला came to the ध्यान of the सामान्य public playing the लोकप्रिय character स्पाइक, a platinum-blond yobbish अंग्रेज़ी पिशाच in the टेलीविज़न series buffy the Vampire slayer और इसके spin-off series, देवदूत, from 1997 to 2004.
चूंकि तब, he रै gone on to play other science fiction roles, such as the एलियन supervillain brainiac on the सुपरमैन -inspired श्रेणी smallville, the omnisexual time traveller कप्तान John हार्ट in British science-fiction दिखाएँ torchwood और terrorist barnabas Greeley in sci fi 's caprica.
marsters appeared in a supporting भूमिका in the 2007 movie p.s.
I प्रेम You और as the प्रमुख antagonist, Piccolo, in the 2009 काल्पनिक adventure फिल्मी Dragonball एवोल्यूशन.
he appeared as a पुनरावर्ती अक्षर in the first season of the revival of हवाई 5-0.
in molecular जीवविज्ञान, human chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) is a hormone उत्पादित by the निषेचित अंडा बाद conception.
बाद during गर्भावस्था it is made by the विकासशील placenta, और बाद by the placental घटक syncytiotrophoblast.
कुछ cancerous tumors produce इस hormone ; इसलिए, elevated levels measured जब the रोगी is नहीं गर्भवती can सीसे to a कर्कट निदान.
however, it is नहीं known whether इस production is a contributing cause or an प्रभाव of tumorigenesis.
The pituitary एनॉलॉग of hcg, ज्ञात as luteinizing hormone ( lh ), is उत्पादित in the pituitary ग्रंथि of males और महिलाओं of सब आयु.
, the FDA has निषिद्ध the बिक्री of `` homeopathic '' and over the counter hcg आहार products और घोषित उन्हें fraudulent और illegal.
Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter, ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज name Beyoncé ( ; born September 4, 1981 ), is an अमरीकी singer, songwriter, नर्तकी, और actress.
Born और उठाया in ह्यूस्टन, टेक्सास, वो performed in गायन and नाचना प्रतियोगिताओं as a child पहले forming in 1990 a समूह साथ केली Rowland and latavia Roberson कि थी आखिरकार नामित Destiny 's Child.
Once हस्ताक्षरित to Columbia Records, the लड़कियों subsequently became एक of the world 's best-selling girl समूह of सब time.
The समूह was plagued by आतंरिक conflict और विधिक turmoil and नॉलेस suffered from अवसाद कि lasted लिये a number of सालो.
दौरान the समूह 's hiatus, नॉलेस released her डेब्यू solo album dangerously in Love ( 2003 ), जिससे earned उसके five ग्रैमी Awards and has बेची a कुल of 4.9 लाख नक़ल in the us अलोन.
It spawned बिलबोर्ड number एक singles `` Crazy in प्रेम, '' माना by vh1 to be the `` Greatest सोंग of the 00 's, '' और `` Baby Boy. ''
following the disbandment of नियति 's Child in 2005, नॉलेस 's second सोलो एल्बम b'day ( 2006 ) contained the शीर्ष पाँच singles `` déjà vu ``, `` Irreplaceable ``, and `` खूबसूरत झूठा ``.
उसके performance in Dreamgirls ( 2006 ) अर्जित her दो सुनहरी Globe nominations.
Knowles ' work playing etta जेम्स in that फिल्मी inspired उसके subsequent एल्बम I am...
साशा Fierce ( 2008 ) which spawned हिट्स `` if i यहूद a लड़के ``, `` Single महिलाओं ( put a Ring on it ) ``, `` Halo ``, और `` Sweet Dreams ``.
The album भी helped Knowles earn six Grammys in 2010, तोड़कर the record लिये सबसे Grammy Awards जीती by a मादा कलाकार in एक रात्रि.
उसके चौथी एल्बम 4 ( 2011 ) deviated towards traditional r & B और became उसके चौथी लगातार number एक एल्बम on the बिलबोर्ड 200.
In जनवरी 2012, Knowles दिया जनम to बेटी ब्लू आइवी Carter, her पहला चाइल्ड साथ husband jay-z.
नॉलेस has बेची over 13 लाख एल्बम in the us और 118 लाख रिकॉर्ड worldwide ( as well as a further 50 million records साथ Destiny 's चाइल्ड ), और is एक of the best-selling म्यूज़िक artists of all समय.
the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग Association of America ( riaa ) पहचाना Knowles as the शीर्ष Certified कलाकार of the 2000s.
in 2009, बिलबोर्ड नामित उसके the शीर्ष रेडियो Songs कलाकार of the दशक and ranked उसके the शीर्ष Female Artist and the चौथी कलाकार of the Decade.
बेयोंस नॉलेस is the सबसे nominated स्त्री in Grammy पुरस्कार इतिहास, receiving 17 पुरस्कार ; other accolades include 12 MTV वीडियो म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार, 7 बिलबोर्ड पुरस्कार सहित a मिलेनियम पुरस्कार, और a स्टार on the हॉलीवुड Walk of कीर्ति as भाग of नियति 's चाइल्ड.
`` एंग्री All the समय '' is the title of a सोंग written by Bruce Robison और पहला अंकित on his 1998 एल्बम लपेटा.
It was बाद covered by टिम mcgraw साथ अतिथि vocalist Faith हिल.
released in जुलाई 2001, mcgraw 's version थी the दूसरी single from mcgraw 's नियत इस सर्कस Down एल्बम.
the सोंग reached Number One on the बिलबोर्ड Hot Country Singles & Tracks ( अभी Hot देश गीतों ) चार्ट.
डिअर जॉन is a 2010 American romantic drama - war film starring अमांडा seyfried and चेनिंग Tatum.
It थी released theatrically in उत्तर अमेरिका on फ़रवरी 5, 2010.
the film थी निर्देशित by lasse hallström, and it is an अनुकूलन of निकोलस Sparks 's अनोखा of the same name.
It follows the जीवन of a soldier ( चेनिंग Tatum ) बाद he जलप्रपात in प्रेम साथ a यंग woman ( अमांडा seyfried ).
वे decide to exchange अक्षर to प्रत्येक अन्य after he is तैनात to the युद्ध.
The movie थी फिल्माया in 2009 in चार्ल्सटन, South Carolina.
despite receiving ऋणात्मक समीक्षाएँ, the फिल्मी बना a दमदार बक्सा दफ्तर प्रदर्शन, knocking off Avatar बाद seven weekends in first place and grossing a कुल of $ 114,977,104 विश्वव्यापी.
the film थी released on may 25, 2010 on dvd और blu-ray.
ये are सूचियाँ of the व्यस्ततम एयरपोर्ट in the United राज्य.
Hartsfield–Jackson अटलांटा International विमानक्षेत्र is the busiest सिंगल विमानक्षेत्र in the United States.
however, सब of the New York City metropolitan क्षेत्रफल 's एयरपोर्ट combine to बनाएँ the largest विमानक्षेत्र system in the United States, second in the संसार in शर्तें of passenger ट्रैफ़िक, और पहला in the संसार in शर्तें of कुल flight operations.
Dora the एक्सप्लोरर is an अमरीकी animated टेलीविज़न श्रेणी निर्मित by Chris Gifford, वैलेरी Walsh, और eric weiner.
Dora the Explorer became a regular series in 2000.
the show is carried on the निकलोडियन केबल टेलीविज़न network, including the संबद्ध उपनाम Jr. चैनल.
it aired on सीबीएस जबतक सितंबर 2006.
a Spanish-dubbed संस्करण पहला aired as भाग of a उपनाम en español block on एनबीसी Universal -owned telemundo through September 2006 ; since अप्रैल 2008, इस संस्करण of the कार्यक्रम रै महरूम carried on Univision as भाग of the planeta u ब्लाक.
सांता fe ( ; ( Tewa : ogha Po'oge, ) ) is the पूंजी of the U.S. state of New मैक्सिको.
It is the fourth-largest नगर in the राज्य and is the seat of.
सांता fe ( अर्थ “holy faith” in स्पेनी ) था a population of 67,947 in the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
It is the principal नगर of a Metropolitan सांख्यिकीय Area which encompasses सब of सांता Fe काउंटी और is भाग of the larger albuquerque-santa Fe-Las वेगास Combined Statistical क्षेत्रफल.
The city’s full name when founded थी La विला रियल de la सांता Fé de San फ्रांसिस्को de asís ( “the royal कस्बा of the पावन आस्था of St. फ्रांसिस of assisi” ).
पेप्सी ( stylized in lowercase as पेप्सी, formerly stylized in अपरकेस as पेप्सी ) is a carbonated नरम drink कि is produced और manufactured by पेप्सिको.
निर्मित और विकसित in 1893 and introduced as ब्रैड 's पेय, it was renamed as Pepsi-Cola on अगस्त 28, 1898, तब to पेप्सी in 1961.
1765 broadside
the बेटे of स्वतंत्रता थी a समूह consisting of American देशप्रेमी कि originated in the pre-independence उत्तर American British colonies.
The समूह was formed to protect the rights of the colonists and to take to the streets विरूद्ध the taxes by the British सरकारी.
वे हैं बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये undertaking the Boston चाय पार्टी in 1773, which led to the Intolerable अधिनियमों ( an तीव्र crackdown by the British government ), और a counter-mobilization by the देशप्रेमी.
Osaka castle
is a नगर in the कन्साई प्रदेश of जापानी 's प्रमुख island of Honshu, a designated नगर अंतर्गत the Local Autonomy विधि, the capital city of ओसाका Prefecture और भी the largest part of the keihanshin metropolis, जिससे comprises तीन major cities of Japan, क्योटो, Osaka और Kobe.
Located at the मुँह of the Yodo नदी on Osaka खाड़ी, Osaka is जापानी 's तीसरा largest नगर by जनसांख्यिकी बाद Tokyo ( खास wards ) and yokohama.
Keihanshin is the second largest महानगर क्षेत्रफल in जापानी by जनसांख्यिकी और एक of the largest महानगर areas अत्यधिक क्रमित in the संसार, with nearly 19 लाख लोगों, और by GDP the second largest area in जापानी और the seventh largest area in the world.
Historically the commercial बीच of जापानी, Osaka functions as एक of the कमांड centers for the जापानी अर्थव्यवस्था.
the ratio between दिन और night time population is 141 %, the highest in Japan, highlighting its औकात as an आर्थिक center.
Its nighttime population is 2.6 million, the तीसरा in the देश, but in daytime the population surges to 3.7 million, दूसरी तभी बाद टोकियो ( combining the special wards of टोकियो, which is नहीं a सिंगल incorporated नगर, लिये सांख्यिकीय purposes ; देखिए the टोकियो article for अधिक सूचना on the definition और मेकअप of Tokyo ).
ओसाका प्रयुक्त to be referred to as the in सामंती Edo काल क्युकी it थी the केन्द्र of व्यापार लिये राइस, creating the first modern futures exchange मार्केट in the world.
The Little Mermaid is a 1989 American एनिमेटेड musical काल्पनिक फिल्मी उत्पादित by Walt डिज़्नी Feature एनिमेशन and वितरित by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी Pictures.
Based on the Danish fairy टेल by Hans Christian andersen, the Little मरमेड tells the स्टोरी of a खूबसूरत मरमेड जो सपनो of becoming इंसान.
लिखा, directed, और उत्पादित by Ron क्लेमेंट्स और जॉन musker, with म्यूज़िक by Alan Menken और Howard Ashman, the film सुविधाएँ the voices Jodi बेंसन, Christopher Daniel barnes, पैट कैरल, सैमुएल E. राइट, जेसन मारिन, केनेथ मंगल, दोस्त hacket, और रेने auberjonois.
The 28th film in the वॉल्ट Disney एनिमेटेड Classics series, the छोटी Mermaid थी released to theaters on नवम्बर 14, 1989 to largely धनात्मक reviews, garnering $ 84 लाख at the box दफ्तर दौरान its आरंभिक रिलीज, और $ 211 million in total आजीवन gross.
बाद the कामयाबी of the 1988 डिज़्नी / amblin film जो framed रोजर खरगोश, The छोटी Mermaid is given क्रेडिट लिये breathing जीवन वापस into the आर्ट of डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड विशेषता films after a स्ट्रिंग of नाजुक or वाणिज्यिक failures उत्पादित by Disney कि दिनाँक वापस to the early 1970s.
it भी चिह्नित the प्रारंभ of the era ज्ञात as the डिज़्नी पुनर्जागरण.
a स्टेज adaptation of the film साथ a किताब by Doug राइट और अतिरिक्त songs by Alan menken और नई lyricist Glenn स्लेटर खोली in डेनवर in जुलाई 2007 and began performances on Broadway जनवरी 10, 2008.
alt=Close-up photo of a metal चमचा भर with a viscous, clear जामुनी fluid
Purple पिया is a slang पद for a recreational ड्रग popular in the हिप hop जातियाँ in the southern संयुक्त States, originating in Houston, Texas.
इसके प्रमुख ingredient is नुस्खा -strength cough syrup containing codeine and promethazine.
खांसी सिरप is typically मिश्रित साथ ingredients such as Sprite नरम drink or Mountain Dew and टुकड़े of प्रसन्न rancher कैंडी.
The purplish वर्ण of purple drank आता from dyes in the cough syrup.
There हैं numerous कठबोली शर्तें लिये purple पिया, including sizzurp, झुकना, सिरप, drank, barre, जामुनी jelly, Texas चाय, और Tsikuni.
first/given, middle, and last/family/surname आरेख with J. S. बच as उदाहरण.
J. S. Bach shared his दिए नाम साथ six immediate परिवार members and many extended परिवार सदस्यों.
he shared उसके परिवार name with सबसे परिवार members.
A दिए name, in पश्चिमी contexts प्रायः referred to as a first नाम, is a personal नाम that specifies and differentiates between सदस्यों of a group of individuals, especially in a परिवार, all of जिनकी सदस्यों usually share the वही परिवार नाम ( surname ).
a दिए नाम is purposefully given, usually by a चाइल्ड 's parents at or निकट birth, in कंट्रास्ट to an inherited एक ऐसे as a family name.
a given नाम is sometimes legally changed through a name बदलें.
दिए names are often प्रयुक्त in a परिचित और friendly manner in अनौपचारिक situations.
in अधिक औपचारिक परिस्थितियों the उपनाम is used instead, जबतक it is necessary to distinguish between लोगों साथ the same surname.
The मुहावरा `` on a first-name आधार '' ( or `` on first-name terms '' ) alludes to the familiarity of addressing another by a दिए name.
the western स्टाइल of having दोनो a परिवार name ( surname ) और a given name is far इससे सार्वभौमिक.
In अनेक देशों it is आम लिये ordinary लोगों to have तभी एक नाम ( a mononym ).
हाइड्रोक्लोरिक acid is a साफ, colourless solution of hydrogen chloride ( h Cl ) in जल.
it is a अत्यधिक corrosive, strong खनिज acid साथ अनेक industrial उपयोग.
Hydrochloric एसिड is found naturally in gastric एसिड.
historically पुकारा muriatic acid, and आत्माओं of नमक, हाइड्रोक्लोरिक acid थी produced from vitriol ( sulfuric एसिड ) and आम salt.
it पहला appeared दौरान the पुनर्जागरण, and then it was प्रयुक्त by chemists such as glauber, Priestley और Davy in their scientific research.
With major उत्पादन starting in the Industrial Revolution, हाइड्रोक्लोरिक एसिड is used in the रासायनिक उद्योग as a रासायनिक अभिकर्मक in the large-scale उत्पादन of vinyl chloride for PVC plastic, और MDI / tdi for polyurethane.
it has numerous smaller-scale अनुप्रयोग, सहित household सफ़ाई, उत्पादन of gelatin and अन्य खाना additives, descaling, और चमड़े प्रसंस्करण.
परिचय 20 million tonnes of हाइड्रोक्लोरिक acid are उत्पादित annually.
गेहूं ( Triticum spp. ) is a खाद्यान्न अनाज, originally from the levant region of the Near East और ethiopian हाइलैंड्स, लकिन अभी cultivated worldwide.
in 2010, संसार उत्पादन of गेहूं was 651 million टन, making it the third most-produced खाद्यान्न बाद मक्का ( 844 million tons ) and rice ( 672 लाख टन ).
गेहूं थी the second most-produced खाद्यान्न in 2009 ; world production in कि साल थी 682 million tons, बाद मक्का ( 817 million टन ), और साथ rice as a close third ( 679 लाख टन ).
इस अनाज is grown on अधिक जमीन क्षेत्रफल than any अन्य commercial खाना.
संसार trade in wheat is वृहद than for सब other crops combined.
Globally, गेहूं is the अग्रणी source of सब्ज़ी प्रोटीन in इंसान खाना, having a higher protein सामग्री than soybeans or the other major cereals, maize ( corn ) or राइस.
in शर्तें of कुल उत्पादन tonnages used लिये food, it is currently दूसरी to राइस as the प्रमुख human खाना क्रॉप and ahead of मक्का, after allowing for maize 's अधिक extensive use in एनिमल फ़ीड्स.
गेहूं थी a कुंजी फ़ैक्टर enabling the emergence of city-based societies at the प्रारंभ of सभ्यता क्युकी it थी one of the first फसलों that could be easily cultivated on a large scale, and had the additional लाभ of yielding a कटाई that provides long-term storage of खाना.
गेहूं contributed to the emergence of city-states in the fertile Crescent, सहित the babylonian और Assyrian empires.
Wheat grain is a स्टेपल खाना प्रयुक्त to मेक flour लिये leavened, flat and steamed breads, बिस्कुट, कुकीज़, cakes, नाश्ता खाद्यान्न, पास्ता, नूडल्स, couscous and for fermentation to मेक बियर, other alcoholic पेय, or biofuel.
गेहूं is planted to a सीमित extent as a forage crop लिये livestock, और इसके स्ट्रॉ can be used as a निर्माण material for roofing thatch.
the पूरे grain can be milled to leave बस the endosperm लिये श्वेत flour.
the by-products of इस हैं चोकर और रोगाणु.
the पूरे अनाज is a concentrated source of विटामिन, minerals, और प्रोटीन, while the परिष्कृत grain is mostly मंड.
मुद्रण
to प्रकाशित is to मेक सामग्री available to the general public.
जबकि specific उपयोग of the पद may vary among countries, it is प्रायः लागू to टेक्स्ट, images, or अन्य audio-visual content on कोई traditional मीडियम, सहित पेपर ( अखबारों, मैगज़ीन, कैटलॉग, इत्यादि. ).
the word publication means the अधिनियम of publishing, और भी refers to कोई मुद्रित नक़ल.
मेलिसा & जॉय is an एबीसी परिवार original television series अभिनीत Melissa Joan Hart और जॉय Lawrence.
it first aired on ABC Family on अगस्त 17, 2010.
the series follows local राजनेता Mel बुर्के ( Melissa Joan हार्ट ) और Joe Longo ( Joey Lawrence ), whom mel hires to dekh after उसके भांजी and nephew बाद a पेन्शन scheme पत्ते him broke.
the series थी नवीनीकृत by एबीसी परिवार लिये a दूसरी ऋतु of पंद्रह episodes, जिससे began airing on may 30, 2012 and ended on अगस्त 29, 2012.
Melissa & जॉय बाँधने as केबल TV 's # 1 telecast at 8 o'clock आरपार निशाना ऑडियंस 18–34, 18–49 और 12–34 जनसांख्यिकी.
on August 17, 2012, एबीसी परिवार नवीनीकृत Melissa & Joey लिये a तीसरा ऋतु, नियत to प्रीमियर in वसन्त 2013.
the धर्मं व्हील, often प्रयुक्त to represent the प्रतिष्ठित eightfold Path
The Noble eightfold Path (, ) is एक of the principal शिक्षाओं of the Buddha, जो वर्णित it as the रास्ता अग्रणी to the cessation of कष्ट ( dukkha ) and the उपलब्धि of self-awakening.
It is used to develop इनसाइट into the true प्रकृति of phenomena ( or वास्तविकता ) and to eradicate greed, hatred, and भ्रांति.
The Noble eightfold पाथ is the चौथी of the Buddha 's चार प्रतिष्ठित सच्चाई ; the first element of the प्रतिष्ठित eightfold पाथ is, in turn, an understanding of the Four Noble सच्चाई.
It is also known as the मध्य पाथ or Middle Way.
सब eight elements of the पाथ begin साथ the word `` right '', which translates the शब्द samyañc ( in संस्कृत ) or sammā ( in pāli ).
These denote पूर्णता, togetherness, और coherence, और can भी सुझाएँ the होश of `` पूर्ण '' or `` आदर्श ''.
'samma ' is also अनूदित as `` wholesome '', `` हिकमत '' और `` skillful ''.
in Buddhist प्रतीकवाद, the प्रतिष्ठित eightfold Path is प्रायः represented by means of the dharma व्हील ( dharmachakra ), जिनकी आठ तीलियां represent the eight तत्व of the path.
The Grammy Award लिये सोंग of the साल is an सम्मान प्रस्तुत at the Grammy पुरस्कार, a रस्म कि थी स्थापित in 1958 और originally called the Gramophone पुरस्कार.
पुरस्कार in several श्रेणी are वितरित annually by the National अकादमी of रिकॉर्डिंग Arts and Sciences of the संयुक्त राज्य to `` honor कलाकारी उपलब्धि, technical proficiency और overall excellence in the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग, बगैर लिहाज़ to album बिक्री or chart position. ''
अर्थशास्त्र is the social विज्ञान that analyzes the उत्पादन, वितरण, and खपत of goods and सेवाएं.
The पद अर्थशास्त्र comes from the प्राचीन यूनानी ( ', `` प्रबन्धन of a household, administration '' ) from ( ', `` हाउस '' ) + ( ', `` कस्टम '' or `` law '' ), hence `` rules of the हाउस ( hold ) ''.
Political economy थी the earlier name for the subject, लकिन economists in the लेट 19th सदी suggested `` economics '' as a shorter पद लिये `` economic science '' that भी avoided a सीमित political-interest connotation और as समान in form to `` गणित ``, `` ethics '', और so forth.
a फ़ोकस of the विषय is how आर्थिक agents व्यवहार or interact और how economies कार्य.
सतत with this, a प्राथमिक textbook distinction is between microeconomics and macroeconomics.
microeconomics examines the behavior of मौलिक elements in the economy, सहित individual एजेंटों ( ऐसे as households और firms or as खरीदार and विक्रेता ) और बाज़ार, and their interactions.
macroeconomics analyzes the entire economy and issues affecting it, सहित बेरोजगारी, महंगाई, economic growth, और मौद्रिक and fiscal नीति.
अन्य व्यापक भेद include those between धनात्मक economics ( describing `` कया is '' ) और normative अर्थशास्त्र ( वकालत `` कया ought to be '' ) ; between आर्थिक सिद्धान्त और applied अर्थशास्त्र ; between तर्कसंगत and behavioral अर्थशास्त्र ; और between मुख्यधारा economics ( अधिक `` परंपरागत '' और dealing with the `` rationality-individualism-equilibrium nexus '' ) और heterodox अर्थशास्त्र ( अधिक `` radical '' और dealing with the `` institutions-history-social structure nexus '' ).
आर्थिक विश्लेषण may be लागू throughout समाज, as in कारोबार, वित्त, स्वास्थ्य परवाह, और सरकारी, लकिन also to ऐसे diverse subjects as अपराधों, शिक्षा, the family, law, राजनीती, धर्म, सोशल संस्थानों, युद्ध, और विज्ञान.
at the turn of the 21st सदी, the expanding डोमेन of अर्थशास्त्र in the social sciences रै महरूम described as economic साम्राज्यवाद.
an increasing क्रमांक of economists have called for increased जोर on पर्यावरणीय sustainability ; this क्षेत्रफल of शोध is known as ecological अर्थशास्त्र.
This is a list of अनुसूची IV दवाएँ अंतर्गत the नियंत्रित Substances Act for the संयुक्त राज्य.
Required findings for दवाएँ to be placed in इस schedule:
the ड्रग or अन्य substance रै a low संभावित for गाली relative to the दवाएँ or other substances in अनुसूची III.
the ड्रग or अन्य पदार्थ रै a currently स्वीकृत चिकित्सा use in उपचार in the संयुक्त राज्य.
गाली of the ड्रग or अन्य पदार्थ may lead to limited शारीरिक dependence or मनोवैज्ञानिक dependence सापेक्ष to the दवाएँ or अन्य substances in schedule III.
the पूरा सूची of अनुसूची IV drugs हैं as follows.
The प्रशासनिक Controlled Substances Code Number लिये each ड्रग is शामिल.
US काउंटी household मध्य income 2009.
मध्य us household आय, 2001-2011
household आय is a measure commonly used by the संयुक्त राज्य सरकारी और निजी संस्थानों.
Each household is measured by the income of प्रत्येक resident over the age of 15.
आय शामिल मजदूरी and salaries, बेरोजगारी बीमे, विकलांगता भुगतान, child support payments received, नियमित rental रसीदें, as खूब as कोई निजी business, investment, or अन्य kinds of आय received routinely.
While inflation-adjusted ( `` real '' ) household आय had been increasing लगभग every साल इससे 1945 to 1999, it has since been चपटा और even decreased recently.
U.S. मध्य household आय गिरी from $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011.
Extreme गरीबी in the संयुक्त राज्य, अर्थ households living on कम than $ 2 प्रति दिन पहले सरकारी benefits, doubled from 1996 to 1.5 million households in 2011, including 2.8 लाख children.
The residents of the household do नहीं have to be सम्बन्धित to the सिर of the household लिये their earnings to be माना part of the household 's आय.
As households tend to share a समान आर्थिक कॉन्टेक्स्ट, the उपयोग of household income remains among the सबसे widely accepted measures of आय.
कि the आकार of a household is नहीं commonly taken into account in such measures may विकृत कोई विश्लेषण of fluctuations भीतर or among the household आय श्रेणी, and may रेंडर सीधा comparisons between quintiles मुश्किल or even नामुमकिन.
The lapse rate is पारिभाषित as the rate of decrease साथ ऊँचाई for an atmospheric variable.
The variable शामिल is तापमान unless specified otherwise.
The शब्दावली arises इससे the word बीतने in the sense of a घटी or मनाही.
जबकि most often applied to Earth 's माहौल the concept can be विस्तारित to कोई gravitationally supported बॉल of गैस.
Blue पहाड़ राज्य is an अमरीकी कॉमेडी श्रेणी कि premiered on स्पाइक on जनवरी 11, 2010.
The श्रेणी producers शामिल क्रिस romano और eric falconer, और it is उत्पादित by lionsgate Television.
the series is about a fictional विश्वविद्यालयों, ब्लू Mountain राज्य, और its फ़ुटबॉल टोली, `` the Mountain बकरियों. ''
it portrays certain पहलुओं of अमरीकी विश्वविद्यालयों जीवन, सहित फ़ुटबॉल, sex, binge पीने, drugs, wild partying, और hazing.
in फ़रवरी 2012, it was reported कि Blue Mountain State would not be नवीनीकृत for a fourth ऋतु.
In कूच 2013, Ed marinaro stated that he is working on a ब्लू पहाड़ राज्य film.
Apple Inc., formerly Apple Computer, inc., is an अमरीकी बहुराष्ट्रीय निगम headquartered in cupertino, कैलिफ़ोर्निया that designs, develops, और sells उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स, कंप्यूटर तन्त्र और निजी कंप्यूटर.
Its best-known hardware उत्पाद are the मैक लकीर of कंप्यूटर, the ipod music खिलाड़ी, the iphone स्मार्टफोन, and the iPad टैब्लेट computer.
Its तन्त्र includes the OS X और आईओएस ऑपरेटिंग systems, the iTunes मीडिया browser, the Safari web ब्राउजर, and the iLife और iwork रचनात्मकता और production suites.
The कम्पनी थी संस्थापित on April 1, 1976, and incorporated as ठहराना Computer, Inc. on जनवरी 3, 1977.
The word `` कंप्यूटर '' थी removed इससे इसके नाम on जनवरी 9, 2007, reflecting its shifted फ़ोकस towards उपभोक्ता electronics बाद the introduction of the iphone.
ठहराना is the संसार 's second-largest सूचना technology company by आय बाद samsung इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स, और the संसार 's third-largest मोबाईल phone मेकर after samsung और Nokia.
Fortune पत्रिका named ठहराना the सबसे admired company in the संयुक्त राज्य in 2008, और in the world इससे 2008 to 2012.
however, the कम्पनी रै प्राप्त criticism लिये its contractors ' मजदूर practices, and for ठहराना 's अपना पर्यावरणीय and business practices.
, ठहराना maintains 394 खुदरा stores in चौदह देशों as well as the ऑनलाइन Apple स्टोर and itunes स्टोर.
It is the second-largest सरेआम traded निगम in the संसार by मार्केट capitalization, साथ an अनुमानित value of us $ 414 अरब as of जनवरी 2013.
, the company था 72,800 permanent full-time कर्मचारी and 3,300 अस्थाई full-time कर्मचारी worldwide.
Its विश्वव्यापी सालाना आय in 2012 totalled $ 156 अरब.
खण्ड 8 housing in the दक्षिण bronx
Section 8 of the आवास अधिनियम of 1937 ( ), प्रायः simply ज्ञात as Section 8, as repeatedly amended, authorizes the payment of rental आवास assistance to निजी जमींदार on निमित्त of लगभग 3.1 लाख low-income households.
it operates through अनेक कार्यक्रम, the largest of which, the आवास चुनाव Voucher program, pays a विशाल portion of the rents और utilities of about 2.1 लाख households.
the us विभाग of आवास और शहरी विकास manages the खण्ड 8 कार्यक्रम.
The Housing Choice वाउचर Program provides `` tenant-based '' rental assistance, so a किरायेदार can move इससे one ईकाई of at तनिक minimum housing विशेषता to another.
It also allows individuals to लागू उनके monthly voucher towards the खरीदें of a home, with over $ 17 अरब going towards such purchases each साल ( from ncsha.org विश्लेषण ).
the maximum allowed voucher is $ 2200 a माह.
खण्ड 8 भी authorizes a किस्में of `` project-based '' rental assistance programs, अंतर्गत which the मालिक reserves कुछ or all of the इकाई in a भवन लिये low-income tenants, in वापसी for a संघीय government guarantee to मेक up the अंतर between the किरायेदार 's योगदान और the किराया लिये 1 cent in the मालिक 's contract with the सरकारी.
A किरायेदार जो leaves a subsidized प्रोजेक्ट will lose अभिगम to the project-based subsidy.
the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of आवास and शहरी विकास and United राज्य विभाग of Veterans अफेयर्स have a special Section 8 कार्यक्रम called VASH ( दिग्गजों अफेयर्स supportive Housing ), or hud-vash, जिससे देता आउट a certain क्रमांक of खण्ड 8 वाउचर to eligible homeless और वरना vulnerable US हथियारबंद forces दिग्गजों.
Restaurants categorized by type and information परिचय these अलग types.
u.S. संघीय Reserve notes in the mid-1990s
The इतिहास of the संयुक्त States डालर कवर अधिक than 200 सालो.
